

/
e&eW*'
m
W255X28831
SOLE HO
SWEET OK DRY
The Bulletin
2O
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 78 No. 4014
Wednesday, January 16, 1957
Price 1 /-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
BLENHEIM PALACE, BIRTHPLACE
OF SIR WINSTON CHURCHILL
Two-hundred and fifty years
ago, in the reign of Queen Anne,
General John Churchill, the victor of the
Battle of Blenheim, was created a duke
and granted a quarter of a million
pounds with which to build for himself
and for his heirs the finest private palace
in England. This great edifice, the
dramatic masterpiece of the architect
Vanbrugh, was built between the years
1705 and 1722 as part of Queen Anne’s
gift to the first Duke of Marlborough in
recognition of his services to the nation.
It stands in its spacious park near
Woodstock between Oxford and
Stratford-upon-Avon, and each year it
is visited by many thousands of people.
The gigantic bulk of the palace is
revealed through the Clocktower Arch—
a vast sweep of colonnades, flights of
terraces and broad steps, ornate towers
and arcaded superstructure. The interior
is no less imposing with its succession
of splendid state apartments, richly
decorated with inlaid marble, painted
ceilings and walls, magnificent tapestries
and hung with masterpieces by such
artists as Reynolds, Sargent, Rubens and
Tintoretto, to name but a few.
One of the finest rooms in Blenheim
is the Long Gallery, illustrated here. It
is one hundred and eighty feet long and
was designed by Vanbrugh as a picture
gallery. At one time Van Dyck’s famous
equestrian painting of Charles I which
now hangs in the National Gallery,
London, occupied the northern end of
this room where now stands the great
organ which is not only beautiful to
listen to but also beautiful to look at.
The bookcases lining the walls contain
some thousands of books, and in show-
cases at the southern end of the room
are exhibited historic letters and
documents, among which is the first
Duke’s original commission in the army.
Here, too, can be seen a fine marble
statue of Queen Anne by Rysbrack.
Another magnificent apartment at
Blenheim is the Great Hall, and adjoining
it is a small and unpretentious bedroom
where Sir Winston Churchill was born
on November 30, 1874. His father, Lord
Randolph, was the second son of the
eighth Duke of Marlborough. During
the Second World War this room was
used as the telephone exchange of that
mysterious department of the War Office
known as M. 1.5.
No. 332: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


£2l
FOR HER
sth STORY
While Still Engaged on her Course.
STOTT Student (Mrs. L. King) received
that figure for her Short Story “Susan and
the Wolf.”
If you have the urge to write, you can
learn to write Successful Stories, Articles,
Written Sketches, Radio Talks, Pars, Verse,
etc. There is a large and constant demand
for well-written work.
Our Literary Prospectus is sent without
obligation to all interested in Writing.
MAIL THE COUPON TODAY
100 Russel] St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereae-h St
Sydney; 290 Adelaide Sr., Brisbane; 21 Grenfeii
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON,
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
f .: vour Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
S.B. 257 AGE....
800 KHUN TER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if sw?
cessful.
The Red Page
THE NEW COLONIALS
You would have to go back to
“Settlers and Convicts” or the
letters of Rachel Henning to find
the Australian equivalent of Temple
Sutherland’s Green Kiwi (Michael
Joseph; Angus and Robertson) and
Jane Dare’s Rouseabout Jane (Whit-
combe and Tombs): for these are
colonists from Great Britain exploring
the charms, barbarities and oppor-
tunities of their new country —New
Zealand.
Oddly enough, for we had plenty
in the past to match “Old New
Zealand” and “Poenamo,” newcomers
to Australia today don’t seem to be
writing this kind of book; or perhaps
it is only that they are not yet being
published —Mr. Koos Schuur, the
Dutch poet whose poem was printed
on the Red Page of the Christmas
“Bulletin,” did write a book about
Australia a year or two ago: but it was
in Dutch and Australia hasn’t seen it.
Which, for our complacency, might
be just as well. All immigrants are
naturally critical, just as all Australian
tourists who go abroad are critical;
and both “Green Kiwi” and “Rouse-
about Jane” illustrate the extreme peril
of employing a New Australian or New
New Zealander (what on earth do they
call them over there?): namely, that he
or she may write a book about you.
It is all very well if you happen to
have treated them as handsomely as
Miss Dare’s employers did on the
sheep-station in Canterbury, where
there were delightful rides along the
beach and picnics where you slid down
waterfalls riding toboggans of cabbage-
tree leaves; but what if you happen to
give Miss Dare sheets that won’t tuck
in properly? Miss Dare is very severe
abjut the sheets. What if you dismiss
your governess or companion, whatever
she may be, from the family table
when you have guests for dinner, so
that she is forced to go and shrilly
titter in the kitchen? What if you
live in the backblocks like Mrs.
J ?: —
An enormously tall, gaunt woman
.... she was dressed in filthy
corduroy trousers, a man’s shirt, a
woollen balaclava helmet rolled up
like a beret and huge hobnailed
boots. She gave me the impression
of living in squalor. Her hands were
absolutely ingrained with dirt and
nicotine, her black hair was cut like
a man’s, and her manner was very
curt and abrupt.. . .With grave
misgivings I followed Mrs. J
into the house, which was in an even
worse condition than the garden . . .
Mr. Sutherland, one notes with
immense relief, is not so alarming as
Miss Dare. He emigrated from Scot-
land quite a few years back—in time
to go to Murchison just after the big
earthquake and drive his truck over
perilous bridges. He has mellowed.
His is a success-story.
But even with so amiable a new-
comer as this, it is not advisable, when
mustering, to work him literally like a
dog. He is liable to take notes about
it: —
I fell from grace again the first
day when I went out with the others
to bring in cattle for the saleyards.
To my surprise we took no dogs with
us, and when we got to the back of
the run we tied-up our horses and
fell in on foot to be allotted our
beats by Mr. F , who then left
to take up a dominating position on
a ridge, from which he “worked”
us with a series of hand-signals, of
which I could interpret about one in
six... . After a couple of hours I
had begun to enjoy this taste of a
dog’s life ...
But, of course, to offset the perils,
the great advantage of books of this
kind is that you get an exact* picture
of colonial life and, because of the
frank —not to say enthusiastic —
criticism, a much truer picture than, in
Australia, we get from our own travel-
writers who, when they explore the
outback, go merely as visitors and
always slather everybody with compli-
ments.
A compliment from Miss Dare —
and she is not always getting sheets
that won’t tuck in properly—is worth
having; so, after she has had the tent
blown down at the picnic or has eaten
the windfall apricots dosed with
strychnine for the birds, is a bit of
humor ... as in the story of the two
brothers who, each unaware of what
the other was doing, both dug a hole
to bury the dead horse, and then had a
fight over the corpse in one of the
holes to prove which hole was the
better —nothing so like the grave-scene
in “Hamlet” has been written since
Shakspeare.
Mr. Sutherland, though he spent his
youth dashing madly about in trucks,
when he wasn’t farming in the mud in
North Auckland or batching with his
tomcat in the backblocks of the King
Country, is somehow more staid than
Miss Dare; not exactly dull, but not
exciting. Miss Dare, if livelier, is
perhaps not so reliable. Neither book
is a new “Old New Zealand”: both
are pleasant—and salutary—reading.
Mr. Clune Visits the Moon
Ever since I was three years old I
had wanted to visit the moon. Even
then it was the only place I hadn’t
written a travel-book about.
But how to get there?
There was, of course, my Australian-
made Holden. In this wonderful
vehicle I had already done 60,000
miles on some of the roughest
roads in Australia before I put it to
a further test for my latest travel-book,
Roaming Round New Zealand, over
that wonderful little country’s twisty
highways and byways and mountain
transits. Wake up, Australia!
I have since heard that the New
Zealand Government has issued
licences for importing 2000 Holdens
from Australia—an indication of “the
shape of things to come” in the increase
of mutual trade across the Tasman,
let’s hope. Would the Holden company
build me a rocket, in the interests of
increased mutual trade with the moon,
let’s hope?
They would.
So now, hey for the moon! Good-
bye, Brown Eyes, heroine of all my
200 books!
But wait. What about fuel?
When I mentioned to my friend
W. G. (“Bill”) Walkley, the New
Zealander who is managing-director of
one of Australia’s biggest industrial
enterprises, Ampol, that I wanted fuel
for the moon, he shook me warmly by
the hand. “Say not a word, Frank,”
he said, “but don’t forget the plug.”
“Ha, ha,” I cracked, “100,000 miles
in my Australian-made Holden, using
nothing but Ampol, and never needed a
new set of plugs yet.”
And so, all aboard for the moon!
We set off by night, so that we could
see better where we were going. Up
above, old Luna floated round and
yellow, like a child’s balloon. Below
us, Sydney! The mother-city of
Australia (pop. 1,935.880) sprawled
around the Harbor, glowed with blue,
red and orange neon-signs, and winking
miles of street-lamps, as we sleeked
high over the Bridge. Sydney, the
mother-city of Australia (pop.
1,935,880), was founded in 1788 when
Captain Phillip, arriving with the First
Fleet, was welcomed by a deputation of
the local inhabitants led by Bennelong
and Namatjira, riding on elephants.
Little was then known of the hinter-
land; but soon, under the aegis of the
energetic Governor Macquarie, parties
led by Wentworth, Blaxland, Katoomba
and Namatjira were pushing out into
the unknown. In the meantime James
Ruse invented wheat; and the wool-
industry, pioneered by that great
Australian John Macarthur
Ever closer loomed the moon.
I leaned back in my comfortable
seat in my Australian-made Holden
rocket and surveyed my fellow-
adventurers. The skipper was Captain
Truro, the soul of hospitality. Alone
in the far corner, reading a newspaper
advertisement for “Shell” and smoking
a cigar, was my old friend William
Gaston Walkley. the soul of good
comradeship. The soothing voice of the
flight-hostess, Perla Lovely, cooed at
my ear. “The moon,” she murmured,
“the satellite of the earth, was observed
for the first time through a telescope
by Galileo in 1610. Galileo came to
the conclusion that it was a body that
resembled the earth in many respects.
The moon is generally believed to have
been formed from the earth (see under
Astronomy), but the manner of its
origin is still unsettled.”
“Go on!” I cracked.
“I will,” said Perla. “See if you
can stop me. The real diameter of
the moon is 2160 miles, rather more
than a fourth of that of its parent, while
its mass is 7.27 x 10 19 tons, about an
eightieth of that of the earth.”
I glanced out into the night. Several
flying-saucers flew past. They were all
Holdens.
“It follows,” the delicious flight-
hostess went on, “that the gravitational
attraction at a point on the surface of
the moon is only a sixth of the gravi-
tational attraction at a point on the
surface of the earth —does this interest
you?” she broke off.
“Enormously,” I sighed.
Half an hour later, when I woke up,
Perla was still talking. “As will be
seen from the astronomical details
given below,” she prattled, “the moon
rotates on its axis in about 27 days.
Viewed through a telescope of moderate
magnifying power the rotundity of the
moon”
I glanced out into the darkness again.
Floating upright and parallel to us was
a signpost stating “To the Moon.” I
jumped out and took a photograph of
myself standing under it.
Back in his corner of the cabin Bill
Walkley was still immersed in his
newspaper, chuckling over an advertise-
ment for C.O.R.
“Be ready,” barked skipper Truro.
“Buckle safety-belts. Any minute now
we’re coming in to land. I suppose
you know,” he added, “that the worship
of the moon, as of other heavenly
bodies, was one of the earliest forms
of polytheism. It prevailed widely
among the E. nations and under many
aspects.”
“If they were as heavenly as Perla,”
I cracked, “I can well understand it.”
“Thank you,” said Perla. “The
mark of the hare in the M. has
impressed the imagination of Mexicans,
Bantus, Sinhalese and others of bygone
times and evoked myths among them.
Research on the problem of travel to
the M. is proceeding, and the develop-
ment of rocket-propulsion”
“Never mind about research,” I said.
“We’re there!”
Glittering in its fairylike diadem of
lights, Soth, the queen-city of the
moon (pop. 1,935,880), lay directly
above us. How we were going to land
on it, when everything was upside-
down, I left to my resourceful friend,
skipper Tom Truro. We were going
in! Along the brightly-lit streets lead-
ing to the aerodrome I could see
thousands of cars racing to meet us.
“Founded in 1120 B.C. by the
Emperor Pterodactyl,” said Perla
tenderly, “the modern city of Soth
(pop. 1,935,880) offers the traveller
every convenience. The parks and
public gardens are a joy to the eye,
while in every bedroom hot and cold
water are provided free of charge by
the ever - courteous management.
Wake up, Australia, and take a lesson
from the moon!”
“But those cars!” 1 gasped, for now
I could see them quite clearly, dashing
along the brightly-lit roads as our
Australian-made Holden rocket zoomed
in to land. “They’re Fords, every one
of them! Customlines and Prefects and
Hastings Diesel Deerings”
“Serves you right for idling round
New Zealand,” cracked skipper Truro,
“While you’ve been looking’ at Mount
Cook and Rotorua, seeing all the
proper tourist-sights, and interviewing
all the mayors, from one end of the
country to the other, Hastings Deering
got in ahead of you.”
* was flabbergasted,
n ? w we , were c * own oa
tarmac—in Soth, queen-city of the
h loo * l - And. with hand outstretched
t 0 sbake mme > the mayor of Soth, a
smap § reen man wlt h a red beard, was
punnm g to wQkomQ us. Thank heavens
£°, r oae ,.' r 1 1 l end acc ' v Y, a f ? d
William Gaston VanJey, who,
as * may have remarked jcfore, is
managing-director of one of the
moon s biggest industrial enterprises,
Ampol.
Talking of An finals
Talking of animals with David
Fleay in Talking of Animals (Jacaranda
Press, Brisbane) is a pleasantly
informal affair in which Mr. Fleay
continually performs of the miracle
of saying something fresh.
He says that the kangaroo doesn’t
throw her joey out when hard pressed
but that her tired muscles relax, the
pouch opens like a sack and the- joey
simply falls out. He also says, correct-
ing another popular superstition, that
the scar from the bite of a goanna does
not become sore again every year, but,
like other bites, simply heals. To
prove this, he has himself beers bitten
by goannas:— ,
One iron-jawed bite left a
permanent scar now 27 years old.
This memento, delivered by a rough
old warrior, took the form of the
tearing off of the back of niy right
hand. Though this paraful gash
took three months to heal, it —like
the others —gave no further trouble.
Mr. Fleay.. of course, used to write
from the Healesville Sanctuary, in
Victoria, where he bred the platypus;
now he writes from West Burleigh,
Queensland, where he has a fauna
reserve and plays with taipans, eagles
and Tasmanian Devils. One thing that
must help to make him feel at home is
that the giant earthworms of Victoria
have apparently moved with him, and
are now to be found all over Queens-
land.
It is Mr. Fleay’s mingling on
familiar terms with his worms and
animals that gives his book its freshness.
With its excellent photographs, it might
have been just another run-through of
the familiar Australian creatures for
children or New Australians. But Mr.
Fleay always has some personal
anecdote to recall hunting the
marsupial-wolf in Tasmania, or hob-
nobbing with wombats at Burleigh—
and he has seen some surprising things
. . . none more dramatic than the
attack by a wild eagle on his tame
wedgetail Horatia, whom he was using
for falconry:—
Directly over Horatia, now flying
some 200 yards away, one of the
visitors suddenly dropped like a stone
with wings rigid and half-closed.
Down and down at incredible speed
the attacking eagle dived until the
actual scream of its passage was an
astounding sound. Abruptly, at the
last possible moment, when it seemed
the steel-muscled bird must at least
crash the low-flying, uneasy quarry
into the ground, crippled for life or
even decapitated, Horatia turned
completely upside-down, presenting
formidable talons at the enemy.
Immediately the attacker veered,
and, in a whistling turn seemingly
impossible, so close was it to the
earth, the attacker shot upwards
with, perhaps, six inches to spare.
It makes an excellent gift-book for
young or old; a pleasant addition for
anyone’s Nature-library.


ORDER MOW
80951
POST TO BOX 2712
THE ‘NORWOOD’ CASH TILL
IS UNDER THE COUNTER
Keep your money safe and secure with the new “Norwood" cash till.
Precision built and made from the finest pre-shrunk imported
timber, the push in pull out drawer is easily fitted
under any counter. This Till has six coin com-
partments, 2 note compartments, and suffi-
cient space beneath to fit special
papers. Fully guaranteed. Price
£6/15/-
V
m
it*
4'
m.
m
V
A.
-
?
■■■
'
'.i -
m
: ■
■ «"
US
ts
V’
i j
Sf
j
•f.
■
-v
■
m
>•. •• v .t
♦ .
■
Automatic Safety Alarm Bell.
Removable Plastic Cash Tray containing 6 coin
compartments and 2 note compartments with Automatic
Spring Clips. Sufficient space beneath tray to hold
special papers, books, etc. Automatic catch
set. in ball bearings. Easily locked, overall dimensions
including frame: Width 13fin., length depth 4in.
Precision built and made from the finest pie-shrunk
imported timber and fully Guaranteed.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 16, 1957
Vol. 78—No. 4014
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. k. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEA^p/ion e Fl Bu 'sm George Street> s y dne y; Box 2521:
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
uth Australia : 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings {opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
AFTER EDEN
change in the Prime Ministership of the
United Kingdom was inevitable, and though it was
hastened by the Suez crisis, it would probably have
taken place before long in any case, Sir Anthony
aas never k een a strong man physically or in
public appeal, though he has sometimes given the
appearance of Ajax defying the lightning.
He has always preferred negotiation to action,
and has been a better subordinate than a leader.
• .He was a League of Nations man and a United
Nations man. There was sometimes in him the will
to firmly, but little power of resistance to
counter-action, as was proved so disastrously in the
Suez incident, in which the initiative born of
urgency gave way to wholesale surrender. He
started something which he failed to finish.
. He helped, over his lifetime, to sow the seeds
of international “peace”-making; and now he has
reaped the consequences.
Apart from all else, he had been long a sick
man. He was sick when he launched the Suez
attack. He was hopelessly ill from the strain of
the burden before it was under way. His career
was over when he was forced to fly to Jamaica
in the midst of crisis. That his Government
survived as long, much less himself, and. secured
vote after vote of confidence, was perhaps partly
the result of the resistance set up by an Opposition
which was reckless in its irresponsibility and which
seemed to find more virtue in the treacherous
Nasser than in its own national leadership; partly
because of the dislike of changing horses while
crossing a stream.
Eden was honest, self-sacrificing in his service
to the country, living up its highest traditions of
idealism; but he was unfitted to be Prime Minister,
especially in a time of stress, and his short
period of office will go down as one of those
stop-gap interludes which have occurred in
British Constitutional history as the nation, losing
one great figure dominating its political thought,
takes breathing-space as it searches for another.
It is a tragedy that the breathing-space on this
occasion was forced on the United Kingdom by
Sir Winston Churchill’s advanced age at a time
of stress and economic crisis and international
pressure, and that its enemies and Western rivals,
some of the latter supposedly close friends and
allies, were able to take full advantage of it.
It is traditional that the outgoing Prime
Minister, before retiring to his equally traditional
earldom or private obscurity, recommends to the
sovereign the man who he thinks should be his
successor. It seemed, moreover, in this case that
the successor would be ready-made in that Mr.
R. A. Butler had acted as deputy for the P.M., and
that only a few months ago he had established a
new ascendancy over the Conservative party’s
annual conference by his oratoiy and mastery of
political manoeuvre.
Nothing was said about any recommendation
for a successor from Eden, but it was made publicly
known that the Queen had taken the unusual course
of consulting Sir Winston Churchill. That his
advice was followed was shown by the choice.
Harold Macmillan is a Churchill man, an old ally]
He comes to the Prime Ministership in the
tradition of an earlier England, and though Nasser
and his followers in the Arab bloc may feel that
they have achieved a triumph in producing circum-
stances which have ousted the old leadership they
will almost certainly regret the change. ’ Mr
Macmillan has close friendships both in Canada
and the United States. He has firm ideas about fiscal
matters, and his accession to oflice makes it clear
that devaluation of sterling will be resisted to
the last ditch. He has a grip on Continental
relationships which was strengthened rather than
weakened when he was remdved from the Foreign
Secretaiyship in the Eden Government to the
Chancellorship of the Exchequer, possibly because
he was inclined to follow at the Foreign Oflice a
stronger line than the rest of the inner Cabinet He
has played a big part in the discussions of the plans
for the breaking-down of European trade-barriers,
but has shown that he appreciates the importance
of British Commonwealth linkage of commercial
interests as a superior consideration over the
advantages to be gained by integration in a
Continental Customs-union.
Few men have entered office with a greater
opportunity. He has some solid backing in the
electorate and in the House of Commons and
among leaders that matter in the House of Lords.
He has had contact with the Moslem world and
close liaisons with the United -States leaders gained
while he was Mr. R. G. Casey’s opposite-number
in the Ministry during the war—he was Minister
of State resident with the Allied Command in
Algeria after the United States entered the war
while Mr. Casey was resident British Minister of
State in Cairo.
He comes into office after a term as Chancellor
of the Exchequer, which is a great advantage,
provided he can choose the right successor. He
is fresh from detailed negotiations on European
relationships. He is, also, with his special knowledge
of Canada, and his proved policy of support for
close association and preference with the other parts
of the British Commonwealth, the right man to
bring about a closer accord with the greater
Dominions, which it is to be hoped that he will
visit as early as possible.
He is not a young man—he is 63, Mr. Butler
eight years younger. It would have been better if
a younger man could have been found to give
continuity to any policy of strength which he may
establish. But he is certainly a man with more
courage of his convictions than the Conservative
party as a whole. '
Whether faction will develop as the result of
his choice, with Mr. Butler as its centre, remains
to be seen. The latter is probably an abler man
in many respects, and his viewpoint no doubt
represents a broader class-pattern than that of the
new Prime Minister. He is a tower of strength in
the Ministry, but probably better in his element
on the financial side than in Foreign Affairs. ¥
If he works as closely with Mr. Macmillan as
can be hoped, they will make a formidable
combination, and with three years still to run and
a workable majority they should be able to make a
deep impression on world politics and prove them-
selves before they have to face the electorates. But
their job in the state in which foreign relations
have been left is a labor of Hercules.
In domestic politics their success is a matter of
the gravest importance. The United Kingdom lost
some of its backbone during the Labor interregnum
in office, and it was only partly restored by the
time Winston Churchill went out. The prospect
of a Socialist Government in the near future
probably with the futile Mr. Gaitskell ditched and
Aneurin Bevan in control, is something to contem-
plate almost with horror both at home and in
Commonwealth and foreign relationships. And the
new Prime Minister is wise to set his face firmly
against the unnecessary election asked for by Mr.
Gaitskell, which would produce uneasiness abroad
during the crucial period ahead.
Who Said "Gerrymander"?
N. S. WALES Opposition-leader Morton sees in
the impending redistribution of electoral boundaries
the gravest threat now facing democracy in
. N. S. Wales.” He says the existing boundaries are
weighted in the Government’s favor because
previous redistributions have been to Labor’s
advantage, and that if the same pattern is followed
next time “the electors will, for practical purposes,
become nearly powerless to defeat the Government
and the State may have to resign itself to one-party
rule.”
To this Premier Cahill replies that Morton
is gratuitously insulting “those who will be charged
with the arduous duty of striking a balance between
the electorates.” The men appointed for the task
will, he says, be men of the highest integrity, in
whom the people will be able to have complete
confidence. „
These two comments represent what is almost
standard political backchat on the subject of
electoral boundaries. It is almost obligatory for
the party out-of-office to entertain the darkest
possible suspicions about any redrawing of the
electorates and for the party in office to protest its
absolute innocence of any intention to seek political
advantage from redistribution.
To judge whether there is any substance in
charges of gerrymandering it is necessary to consider
first what opportunities and loopholes exist for
malpractice and what, if anything, the Govern-
ment has done to get rid of them; secondly, whether
the party in office has actually benefited from
redistribution.
In the Federal Parliament the procedure for
redistribution doesn’t leave much scope for gerry-
mandering, but this hasn’t prevented Opposition
parties from making the traditional charges. When
the Chifley Government authorised the big
redistribution in 1948, involving a big increase in
the number of electorates, there were loud cries
from the Opposition, though it should have been
obvious to them that, far from making it easier for
Labor to hang on to office, the effect of the new
rnap would be quite the reverse. When election-
time tested the change Labor suffered a crushing
defeat from which it has not yet recovered. Similarly,
when smaller redistributions were made under the
Menzies Government, Labor members howled that
they d been robbed, although the new boundaries
were merely adjusted to keep pace with the move-
ment of population from inner industrial areas to
the outer suburbs—a trend already in evidence in
1948 and recognised by the new boundaries in that
year.
Two States have tied their electoral divisions to
the Commonwealth map; Victoria, by splitting
every Federal electorate into two State seats;
Tasmania, by adopting the Federal divisions and
giving them six members each on a proportional-
representation basis. Both schemes at least take
the whole thing out of the field of controversy. The
four other States prefer to do their own boundary-
writing—as they have every right to do. Most of
them have a differential population-quota for city
and country electorates, weighted in favor of the
country. This, however, doesn’t work uniformly
in all States. In South Australia it helps to account
for the long reign of Playford’s Liberal-Country-
League Government; in Queensland, dotted with
mining pockets of A.W.U. voters whose interests
are more closely allied to the industrial south than
to the agricultural and pastoral country around
them, it gives Gair 20 out of 23 seats in the Western
and Northern zones and assures the continuance of
the perpetual Labor Government.
In Westralia the parties probably break
even on the double standard. The N.S.W. system,
too, discriminates between city and country
electorates. The average enrolment in a city seat
is about 24,000; in the country, 17,000. “Country”
seats include eight predominantly coalmining
electorates on the Newcastle, Bulli and Western
fields, every one of them a safe Labor stronghold.
The past redistributions to which Opposition-
leader Morton referred began in 1949, when
J. J. McGirr was Premier. His Government had
lost three successive by-elections and, with a general
election approaching, could feel the cold wind
blowing on its neck. The Electoral Act was
amended; the number of Electoral Commissioners
was reduced from three to one by the omission of
the Surveyor-General and the Government
Statistician —for reasons never adequately explained
—and postal voting was virtually abolished.
In the redistribution which followed shortly
after this the number of M.L.A.s was increased
from 90 to 94. It was claimed that the proportion
between city and country was maintained, but in
'the upshot the representation of the Sydney-
Newcastle-Wollongong area—Labor’s kingdom—
was increased by eight and that of the rest of the
State was reduced by four.
Of the four country seats abolished, two were
held by Labor and two by the Country party —
which sounds a very just and fair bargain, until
it is pointed out that the two Labor seats, Ashburn-
ham and Namoi, had been won at the previous
election by only 218 and 321 votes respectively,
and if the trend shown at by-elections was any
guide, were as good as lost already.
Two seats in the industrial areas of Sydney
were abolished —Annandale and Botany. The
tacking-on of Annandale to Newtown enabled the
McGirr party to defeat the Lang Labor member
for Newtown, Mrs. Lilian Fowler, at the next
election; portion of Botany went to form a new
seat, Maroubra, a safe haven for Qeputy-Premier
Heffron ever since; the rest strengthened Cook’s
River, Premier Cahill’s fortress.
In the 1950 election Labor barely retained
office, being dependent for the next three years on
an Independent Labor member’s vote. A second
redistribution occurred in 1952, when a bill was
introduced at 2.15 a.m. on the last night of a
session and rushed through all stages in an hour
and a half. The Electoral Commission was again
made a three-man affair —the Electoral Commis-
sioner, “a person who is, or has been, a judge,”
and “a person who registered as a surveyor.” The
Opposition tried to have this amended to “a
Supreme Court judge nominated by the Chief
Justice or a District Court judge nominated by the
Chairman of the District Court Bench” and to
substitute the Surveyor-General for- the surveyor,
but the Government would have nothing of it,
preferring instead to retain in its own hands the
appointing of two of the three members—and to
risk all the imputations of bias and gerrymandering
such a course made inevitable.
A Government with a clear conscience does
not, of course, have to worry about imputations
of bias, and the conscience of the Cahill Govern-
ment is so clear that it doesn’t even throw a shadow
on the Cabinet-table; so it doesn’t have to take
much notice of Opposition allegations that the
1952 redistribution reduced Liberal and Country-
party majorities in several borderline seats, in two
of them sufficiently to convert them into minorities,
while borderline-seats held by Labor were
substantially strengthened. It can laugh-off sugges-
tions that these alterations helped it to retain office
last year by the skin of its teeth. But however
clear its conscience may be, so long as it retains
the power to hand-pick its electoral commissioners
it cannot complain if its motives are suspect.


“COME DOWN, COME DOWN FROM YOUR IVORY TOWER


PLAIN ENGLISH
Nehru on the Spot
Throughout the Middle East crisis
India’s Prime Minister Nehru has been
consistent first in urging United Nations
action and secondly in supporting United
Nations decisions. Nearer to his
own capital Mr. Nehru is not so
certain of the United Nations’ right to
adjudicate or its competence to make
just decisions.
To the outsider Kashmir would seem
to be a textbook case for United Nations
action. India and Pakistan have been
at loggerheads over the sovereignty of
Kashmir and Jammu ever since the two
countries gained their independence.
Pakistan claims that three-quarters of the
four-million people of Kashmir are
Moslems and akin by blood to the people
of West Pakistan; India claims the
country is traditionally part of India and
that the people desire union with India.
Mr. Nehru is himself of Kashmiri
descent. At one stage the dispute reached
the point of armed conflict and. for nine
years there has been an uneasy peace,
with both sides spending far more on
their arms Budget than the economic
condition of their countries can readily
afford. Repeated discussions between
the leaders and their representatives have
failed to find a solution, and it seems that
short of war only an independent
arbitrator can settle the issue.
The Kashmir dispute is, in fact, before
the United Nations. It has been before
it for nine years. In 1948 a U.N. com-
mission recommended a cease-fire line,
the demilitarisation of Kashmir and the
holding of a free and impartial plebiscite
under U.N. auspices. Both sides accepted
the proposals, and U.N. military observers
—Australians among them —policed the
cease-fire line. They are still policing
it. Demilitarisation has not occurred,
despite the attempts of several U.N.
mediators—including Sir Owen Dixon—
to secure the withdrawal of all troops so
that a free plebiscite may be held. A
Security Council proposal to refer out-
standing points to arbitration was
accepted by Pakistan but refused by
India.
At present Kashmir has a Government
alleged by Pakistan to be merely a puppet
body kept in power by the Indian Army ;
India recognises this Government and
claims it is truly representative of the
country. Sheikh Abdullah, the original
leader of tills Government, claimed that
the Constituent Assembly which it"*had
set up had every right to determine the
future of the country. He supported
accession to India, but in 1952 he made
a speech in which he said that before
Kashmir could accept the Indian Con-
stitution in its entirety it would have
to be convinced that “Communality had
been completely eliminated in India.”
Mr. Nehru’s comment on this speech was
that he was “not very pleased” with it.
In August, 1953, Sheikh Abdullah was
removed from office and imprisoned. He
appears to be still in custody.
According to report the Constituent
Assembly intends to proclaim a new
Constitution on January 26 which will
complete the absorption of Kashmir into
the Indian Union. The announcement
has brought from Pakistan a protest that
the Assembly has no authority to decide
the question; that India has previously
admitted this, and that the Security
Council has also ruled to that effect.
Pakistan also expresses the fear that
India intends to announce on January 26
the incorporation of Kashmir in the
union. The date is India’s Republic
Day.
The matter is on the agenda for early
discussion by the Security Council. The
views of Mr. Nehru’s representative on
the authority of the United Nations and
on the right of the Kashmiri people to
self-determination should be very
interesting. Pakistan claims that it is
still prepared to accept a plebiscite under
U.N. auspices. It is hard to see how
Mr. Nehru can reject this proposal.
4
A Policeman's Lot
Join the police and see life. Risk your
life or risk your job. There’s variety in
the Force, and a policeman’s lot is not a
happy one.
Happy enough when you’re trying to
steal a kiss, like the Victorian policeman
fined £lO by the discipline board. What
if a girl had asked him for a kiss, and he
reported it to his or her bosses? Just
shows, doesn’t it, how much discretion a
man in uniform has to exercise?
You’ve got to have the evasive skill of
a bullfighter to face what comes to you in
the Force. Like the man in Bendigo who
stood like a rock while a maddened
bullock charged him, then twisted his body
sideways, as in the bullring, -to let the
horns scrape past him. He couldn’t fire
his service-pistol because of children
near by who just might have been in the
path of a deflected bullet.
Discretion again. It comes in many
forms in the valorous Force.
Reading
iT’is getting so there is just nowhere you
can curl up with a good book. The
R.A.A.F. is the latest to secede from
leisurely reading. Faster learning, they
demand. “Flash-trainers,” they’re
making, with rate - Controllers and
regression-inhibitors (no re-reading, or
flashbacks, that means).
“Flash” is the word, said a cynical
young national-serviceman. “Just like
the Air Force. The Army lets a man
plod along without reading at all.” He
libelled the Army, which is customary.
It has had something very like the
R.A.A.F.'s newly-blazoned system for
some years now, and have even, through
Austmit (Australian Military Instruction
Troop) passed on their training methods
to commerce and industry.
With the R.A.A.F. refinements,
business-management and, we may hope,
Government departments are going to be
even more interested in the system. One
aim is to reduce the number of “fixations”
or momentary pauses of the eyes as they
move along the lines. Think what that
could mean in man-hours in a Govern-
ment department!
One facility to be developed is “skim-
reading,” which some few students have
always been able to do, to absorb great
masses of subject-matter. An objection
long held against this is the brevity of
retention, but the new, streamlined skim-
technique is a three-speed one, slower
each time with cumulatively more
comprehensive note-taking.
Squadron-leader L. Greenaway, a
Sydney Arts graduate now on the
directing staff of the R.A.A.F. Staff
College at Point Cook, has adapted over-
seas methods to his service’s needs so
successfully that the reading training
will be an official part of the college’s
12-months’ preparatory course for senior
staff appointments.
An appealing feature is that it will be
cheap to establish. A few hundred
pounds’-worth of equipment, now on
order, will go into action this year. Three
reading-rate control machines and two
tachystoscopes (the flash-trainers) will
dole out the reading-matter to students at
speeds according to their swiftly-develop-
ing—it is hoped—absorptive capacity. ?
Whereas the average reader can flick
over 200 words a minute, comprehending
about 56 per cent., Squadron-leader
Greenaway expects that, with training,
most can be improved to a rate of 250
a minute, comprehending 75 per cent.,
and his brighter staff candidates do much
better than that.
So his method will start them skimming
at 1000 words a minute, reducing the
voltage until, with experience, the college
attains what may become a top-brass
“norm.” Under this, the equivalent of
the Sword of Honor man can be regulated
to pass out barely a word ahead of the.
staff-class dunce.
Commonwealth Talks Here?
[From “In the ACT’-’]
Whatever opinions are held of recent
events in the Middle East and elsewhere,
it is impossible to deny Mr. Nehru’s
opinion that the structure of the
Commonwealth has been damaged.
He has been supported in this view by
Prime Minister St. Laurent, of Canada,
and by others of less eminence. Those
GREEN-LIGHT FOR THE REDS
[By “Ek Dum”]
'T'HE United States has pretended for
years to be completely disinterested in
the Middle East. At the same time it
has used its satellite countries in U.N.0.,
together with its own influence, to
weaken the stabilising factors in that
area, Britain and France, and to advance
to independence brash and noisy dictator-
ships like those of Egypt and the Syrian
leadership. During this period of
apparent disinterest it has poured capital
into the oilfields of the Arabian penin-
sula in competition with the British
initiation of the Middle East oil busi-
ness.
It also has kept in the Eastern
Mediterranean the most powerful fleet in
the world save that in the Far East. This
fleet was actually practising landing-
operations in Crete when the British and
French decided to interpose their forces
between Egypt and Israel and try to save
the canal, which Nasser was taking steps
to block from the moment he knew the
Israel invasion to be in train. The
United States was apparently blind or
indifferent to the danger to the canal, and
its Sixth Fleet must have been deploying
ships like the Coral Sea there with
atomic weapons and preparing for
atomic attack on cities almost precisely
as distant as Moscow merely as a matter
of fun and games if the current represen-
tations about the “Eisenhower doctrine”
are correct.
For it appears that only now has it
become apparent to President Eisen-
hower and Mr. Dulles that something
must be done to check Russian aggres-
sion in the Middle East, and that this is a
matter of the gravest urgency and one in
which —vide Mr. Dulles —the State
Department is not sure that the British
and French will co-operate.
The fact that they have been urging
the United States to co-operate in the
loudest of voices for years and that the
only result has been rebuff after rebuff
seems to have escaped Washington’s
attention completely. With the same
technique that was employed in For-
mosa, one in which threats are held out
to Congress about its responsibility if it
failed in obedience to the White House,
the scheme has been put forward and all
familiar methods of driving it through
the two Houses are being used with a
vigor illustrating clearly the somewhat
perilous position of the Administration
—rather than the U.S. —in the matter.
The reports which have appeared in
the Australian press suggest that the
umbrella resolutions put forward to Con-
gress to authorise the President to give
holding that belief, of course, would
probably differ widely in their defini-
tions of the “structure of the Common-
wealth,” and in their interpretation of
what the Commonwealth implies today
and what its future role should be.
Nevertheless, it is something to find that
Nehru himself hopes for Commonwealth
association to continue, describing
Commonwealth relations as “co-operative
co-existence in spite of differences.” He
believes that it helps mutual understand-
ing and world peace, one of its virtues
being that while members follow
different policies, sometimes they keep
in touch with each other, and so try to
adapt themselves to each other’s policies
as far as possible.
This, of course, is all very vague, and
the bonds need not necessarily become
any closer when the Gold Coast comes
into the “family” soon as a full member.
It is perhaps significant that in Nehru’s
view India is closer to Canada than to
any other Commonwealth nation —
because “Canada has shown a greater
appreciation than anyone else of the
revolutionary changes that have .occurred
in India since independence.” It is also
important that the Indian Premier thinks
the Commonwealth method of dealing
with each other, “trying to understand
each other and policies, and yet with
complete freedom of action thought fit
and proper,” can be expanded to cover all
the countries of the world.
These views and the recent stresses are
arguments in favor of a suggestion
advanced unofficially in Canberra that
the Commonwealth association could be
best repaired by new talks by the Prime
Ministers. It has been suggested that
someone should take the initiative in
promoting a meeting, although not in
London. for climatic and other obvious
reasons at present. Canberra or Colombo
have been mentioned as possible
alternatives, and it will be interesting to
see if Mr. Menzies takes the hint —and
in doing so reasserts his considerable
claim to leadership.
military help to those who in the M.E.
ask for it and distribute £179 million in
bonuses to Nasser and his friends have
had a friendly reception from Congress
members, but this has been far from the
truth. Mr. Dulles’s attempts behind the
scenes to have the resolutions put for-
ward in the Executive’s own terms seem
to have met with considerable opposition.
Such comments as that the plan is “an
empty sham on the American people, an
empty piece of propaganda to convince
the American people that we have a
‘dynamic foreign policy’ ” are fairly
typical of the less-convinced Democrats.
Some, including Senator Mansfield,
one of the most powerful members of the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
appear to be bewildered that, after
having insisted on the fact that the
Middle East was a United Nations
province and that its affairs should be
settled at least in token under the hand
of Mr. Hammarskjoeld, who has been
used as a stalking-horse during the
American operations to take control of
the Suez Canal, the U.S. now apparently
appears to argue that it can go alone in
the M.E. without invalidating its doc-
trines' of November. Mr. Truman’s
warning that the U.S. must never again
let its allies down in crisis speaks for
itself.
Exactly what the Eisenhower doctrine
can achieve it is difficult to see. It cer-
tainly- aims to fill the “Power-vacuum”
created by the ousting of the British
and French, but it will be difficult
to persuade the Arab countries,
or any other countries, to accept
the precept which Congress may
have to accept that unless the doctrine is
made practical politics and the whole
Middle East' turns to Uncle Sam for
help, the world will blow-up.
The Middle Eastern countries, indeed,
outside the Baghdad Pact countries, which
did not need to be told o’f the danger,
are somewhat derisive. The Syrians
branded the scheme as another piece of
“imperialism” and celebrated its advent
by importing some more Russian war-
materiel, including M.I.G.s of the latest
vintage, as part of a large-scale Russian-
aid plan.
Meanwhile, General Wheeler, who is
charged with the task of clearing the
canal, has already been applying the
Eisenhower doctrine to U.N. proceedings
with his insistence that he is only a guest
of Nasser in Egypt and bound to follow
the dictator’s whims. Russia’s reaction
came from Khrushchev, who described
( Continued, on next page)
Vale Robert Garran
The death of Sir Robert Garran at 90
removes the last of the old guard of the
founders of Federation. He outlived all
the rest of the main participants—mostly
by more than a generation.
Garran, who became a councillor of
the Federal League in 1893, was
the son of an editor of the “Sydney
Morning Herald.” He was born and
wholly educated in Australia, whereas
most of those who brought Federation
about were either British-born or British-
educated.
His scholastic career, both at Sydney
Grammar and Sydney University, was
brilliant. He was called to the N.S.W.
Bar 67 years ago. He was Sir George
Reid’s legal and Constitutional adviser
on whom that vacillating Federalist leaned
in the tricky period of his career as
a conventionist. He so acted during the
final Melbourne conference of colonial
Premiers which settled the details of the
ultimate compromises. He was secretary
to the drafting-committee of the Conven-
tion in 1897-98, and he was the Com-
monwealth’s first Parliamentary draftsman
—who gave form to all the legislation
of 1901-16—and secretary to the
Attorney-General’s Department under.
Deakin, J. G. Drake, Henry Bourne
Higgins, Josiah Symon, Isaacs, Littleton
Groom, W. M. Hughes, Paddy McMahon
Glynn, Hughes again, “Iceberg” Irvine,
Hughes once more —or rather twice
more. It was in Hughes’s war-time
reign, after the break-up of the old Labor
party, that Garran became first Common-
wealth Solicitor-General, and in that
office went to the Peace Conference, at
which he was one of the tallest and most
hard-working figures. He remained till
the end of his life, having retired in
1932, a sort of elder statesman of the
civil service, full of old-world cburtesy
and good and sometimes humorous
advice. He took a great interest to the
last in Church matters; also in the
Australian-American relations during
and since World War II.
While his annotated edition of the
Australian Constitution produced with
John Quick, K.C., is still a work respect-
fully consulted, in spite of all the changes
which have turned the Constitution into
something its own mother would scarcely
• know, he had time in his earlier days
to become one of the finest scholars of
German literature in Australia, and he
prized his work as translator of the lyrics
of Heine and the songs of Schubert and
Schumann above his Constitutional
volumes.
Garran was no worshipper of the past.
Last year somebody asked him dis-
gustedly what he thought of the 1956
vintage of Commonwealth politicians
and how he thought they compared with
those of pre-Federation days. Like a
flash the long old man replied equably:
“It’s a big question. Ask me again in a
century.”


the new plan as resembling a poisonous
mushroom-growth, adding that those
who eat poisonous mushrooms die.
The whole business is clumsy and
futile. Militarily it adds nothing to the
security of the Middle East. No matter
what the circumstances, if Russia made a
direct attack on that area the United
States would have been forced to take
action at any time during the past decade.
It is, in fact, rather a weakening of the
position. For whereas Britain has a part
in the Baghdad Pact, Mr. Dulles’s
provocative and certainly not concilia-
tory statements in whicli he criticised the
British and French for their bombing of
Egypt seems .to suggest that the Middle
East will be safer without British aid and
that it is excluded.
The Russians are not likely openly to
attack any country in the Middle East.
To do so would be a negation of their
whole insidious method. Their plan is
to form a Red-ant traitor local Govern-
ment which calls on Moscow for help,
upon which the Red Army marches in by
request, as was done in all the conquered
Eastern European satellites.
This process leaves no room for the
application of the Eisenhower doctrine,
and Mr. Dulles’s assurances that the
United States will not act save upon
a call for help is just what the doctor
ordered from Moscow’s viewpoint. It
gives the green-light to its normal way
of proceeding. It cares nothing about
Mr. Eisenhower’s offers of dollars; in
fact, it no doubt rejoices in them since
they promise to provide so much more
for the Nassers and their kind to
expropriate when the right time comes.
But Mr. Eisenhower is bound to his
stated limitations. If he were not, some-
body might ask why his principles do not
hold good in Hungary.
Actually the U.S. move is, as Ottawa
opinion is said to hold, “unsettling rather
than stabilising.” It is in essence merely
a piece of camouflage designed to cover
some red faces, which, tor once, are in
Washington, not Moscow. It is a
deliberate provocation to Moscow and at
the same time gives Bulganin and
Khrushchev the green-light, as has been
said, to pursue their traditional methods
of conquest to their hearts’ content.
The attacks of Yemeni troops on
British Aden protectorate territory
immediately following the issue of the
Eisenhower plan, and at a moment when
Aden is about to become of great import-
ance in a mesh of new British air-
communications with Australia and the
Far East running through the Maldives,
has clear implications, especially since a
Russian mission has been discovered
made to order in Cairo and sitting in
the background ready to aid Yemen.
Its attack on the British levies on the
pattern of Russia’s attack on Finland
during World War II —you attack the
victim and then accuse him of having
been involved in aggression—is obviously
part of a Russian plan to close the Red
Sea as well as the Suez Canal to British
shipping and to disrupt defence of the
new air-routes. *
The Russians and Arabs- obviously
interpreted the Eisenhower Plan to their
own satisfaction. The Yemenis have
asked for Egyptian volunteers or any
others available, and Mr. Dulles has
eagerly snatched at the incident to bolster
the case for the Eisenhower doctrine,
which he now interprets as conceived to
block, inter alia, the advent of Russian
volunteers into the area as being aggres-
sive—one of the things which the United
States, as ruler of 'the world, will not
allow.
And Nasser’s conduct, despite his
military totalitarianism, his illegalities
and his disturbances of the peace and
suppression of local movements aiming
for democratic government in Egypt, and
his utter refusal to obey the United
Nations’ orders regarding Israel, Mr.
Dulles declares to be “not quite so bad
as it seems to be portrayed oftentimes
by the press.”
Oii the evidence of this tolerant utter-
ance and the behavior of the Reds and
Arabs on the Yemen question the Eisen-
hower doctrine is not likely to earn much
kudos as a deterrent to aggression in the
Middle East. >
POLITICAL POINTS
Those who were expecting (and fore-
casting) big changes in the British
Cabinet were disappointed when Mac-
millan announced his team on Monday.
London Sunday papers had tipped
“sweeping changes,” “so extensive as to
appear ruthless.” Reality gave hardly a
sweep and ruthlessness was entirely
absent.
Selwyn Lloyd, universally dumped
from Foreign Affairs by the pundits,
remains. in the Cabinet; remains, too,
''at the Foreign Office. Butler is still
Lord Privy Seal, and also takes over the,
Home Secretaryship. The most import-
ant change is the elevation of Peter
Thorneycroft from President of the
Board of Trade to Chancellor of the
Exchequer.
Only “droppings” are Anthony Head
(Defence), Gwylym Lloyd George (Home
Secretary) and Sir Walter Monckton
(Paymaster-General). Chief newcomer is
Sir Percy Mills, Minister for Power.
Whatever else may be read into the
minor reshuffling of portfolios, it
certainly doesn’t denote any violent
changes in foreign policy, and the n_w
Cabinet isn’t ordering any hair-shirts over
the old one’s handling of the Suez affair.
Macmillan’s full Cabinet is:
Prime Minister: Harold Macmillan.
Foreign Secretary: Selwyn Lloyd.
Chancellor of the Exchequer: Peter
Thorneycroft.
Lord President of the Council: Lord
Salisbury.
Lord Chancellor: Viscount Kilmuir.
Home Secretary and Lord Privy Seal: R. A.
Butler.
Commonwealth Relations: Lord Home.
Secretary for the Colonies: A. Lennox-Boyd.
Defence Minister: Duncan Sandys.
Secretary of State for Scotland: John Scott
Maclay,
President of the Board of Trade: Sir David
Ecclcs
Agriculture: D. Heathcote Amory.
Labor: lain Macleod.
Hodsing: Henry Brooke.
Education: Lord Hailshaitt.
Power: Sir Percy Mills.
Transport: Harold Watkinson.
Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster: Dr.
Charles Hill,
• •
The British Labor party’s solicitude for
the Queen in the Cabinet crisis would be
very touching if it could be accepted as
genuine concern for her Majesty’s
feelings instead of mere chagrin at the
dashing of their hopes for an election.
Their complaint is that the Conservative
party should have elected a new leader,
thus saving the Queen the embarrassment
of having to choose between Macmillan
and Butler. They now want a general
election to “let the people decide.”
This is rather illogical. The
embarrassment issue will surely be
settled by the acceptance by the Con-
servatives of Macmillan as their new
leader. In- an election the people would
not be choosing between Macmillan and
Butler but between Macmillan and,
Gaitskell. In effect the Labor party
would be asking the people to say the
Queen had made the wrong choice.
Basically that’s the whole grouch. All
through the Suez crisis Labor was
demanding an election. It demanded one
when the first attack was made on Suez;
it demanded one when Eden accepted the
U.N, instruction to withdraw. It
demanded one when Eden went to
Jamaica ; it demanded one when he came
back. It demanded one when Eden
resigned. It is demanding one now,
Macmillan has been named as his
successor. Labor’s secret sorrow is not
that the Queen had to send for Churchill
and Salisbury, but that she didn’t send for
Gaitskell.
• •
Cahill has announced the loan to a film
company of a Cobb and Co. coach from
Vaucluse House, for use in filming
“Robbery Under Arms.” He has not
disclosed whether Cabinet has received
any worth-while invitations to join the
cast of the film.
• •
Queensland Treasurer Walsh wants an
investigation into the proposal to increase
shipping rates by fourteen per cent. He
feels that excessive transport charges are
responsible for “continued inflation.” His
own Government has slugged the Queens-
land public with up to fifty per cent,
rail-freight and -fare increases, so he
should know.
Next week will see two conventions in
Canberra —the eighth annual citizenship
gathering and the summer school of the
Institute of Political Science. The first,
from January 22 to 25, will have the
usual round of sedate festivities and
discussion groups, as well as addresses
by three knights —Richard Boyer, lan
Clunies-Ross and Douglas Copland—and
one Monk —Albert, of the A.C.T.U. The
political-science show, to begin on
January 26, will be devoted to “pro-
ductivity and progress,” and speakers will
include Sir Harold Hartley,- of Britain,
Professor Clark Kerr, of California, C.
Geddes, of the British T.U.C., an assort-
ment of Australian industrialists,
politicians and civil servants—and, of
course, Albert Monk.
• •
“In the ACT”: If the Bland committee
on public accounts is still in commission
it could do worse than take another look
at the still new Department of Trade,
which is happily expanding in the sun-
light of apparently unlimited wads of
taxpayers’ funds. More and more
assistant-secretaries are being appointed,
PILGRIMAGE TO THE NEW MECCA
including those with functions related to,
import-licensing and tariffs, and some
kind of check seems overdue. The latest
story in Canberra is that Customs may
now succeed in keeping itself from
becoming a Treksury appendage,
although its prestige as a separate depart-
ment will suffer some eclipse. It will lose
further functions to Trade, but will
remain a department in its own right,
possibly sharing a Minister with Trade
instead of having one to itself,
• •
Britain’s new Prime Minister has been
nicknamed “Mac the Knife,” but that
isn’t preventing the dagger-men of the
yellow press from stabbing him in the
back before he has time to get settled in
the job.,
• •
Queensland hospitals will now admit
patients from N. S. Wales “when beds
and services are available.” Fees will be
charged, and the N. S. Wales Government
will be asked to guarantee their collection.
That seems fair enough. It will ensure
that genuine cases are not turned away
and the fees will keep out those New
South Welshers who were merely trying
to get in on a sparrow’s ticket.
• •
Polling-day for the Burwood seat in the
N. S. Wales Assembly, vacant since the
death of Liberal member Dr. Parr, has
been fixed for February 16. Eighteen
persons will contest the Liberal nomina-
tion. Labor has not yet decided whether
to put up a candidate. Dr. Parr was
unopposed at last year’s election ; in 1953
his majority was 3100.
• ®
Several papers commented that Eden s
tenure of the Prime Ministership was the
shortest since Bonar Law’s seven months
in 1922-23. Not quite right. Eden
reigned 21 months , Ramsay MacDonald s
first term of office, in 1924, lasted only
91 months. The United Kingdom has
had several other shortlived Governments
in the past century. Lord Derby replaced
Palmerston in February, 1858,- but had to
give way again to “Pam” 16 months later.
Lord John Russell lasted only seven
months in 1865-66. Disraeli and Glad-
stone both had long aggregate records as
P.M., but each in his time led a short-
lived Ministry. Dizzy’s first Ministry
(1868) lasted less than ten months ;
W.E.G.’s third just under six. Lord
Rosebery was in office from March, 1894,
to July, 1895. Lord John Russell had
been Prime Minister before and, with the
exception of Lord Rosebery and Bonar
Law (who was a dying man when he
resigned), all these P.M.s made Come-
backs. The likelihood of Eden emulating
them in this respect is decidedly remote.
If the Eisenhower Doctrine is designed
to halt Communist influence in the Middle
East, what is America’s attitude towards
reported Russian “assistance” to Yemen
(not denied by the Yemeni Minister in
Cairo), to Yemen’s call for “volunteers”
and for Egypt’s open recruitment of
“volunteers”?
• •
Britain has had 13 Prime Ministers
since 1900 and Australia 16. Canada, in
the same period, has had only six.
• •
Joke of the U.N. season:
Fighting flared up again in Hungary as the
United Nations gave a committee consisting of
representatives of Denmark, Tunisia, Uruguay,
Ceylon and Australia a brief to “investigate
conditions in Hungary.” Australia, is, of course,
not diplomatically represented in Moscow and
its delegate would have no chance of
Hungarian recognition. Tunisia is a place of
violence, Ceylon has an extreme Leftist leader
who is ousting British defences and playing
Moscow’s game. Uruguay is a police State on
Socialist lines and governed by a party con-
tinuously in power for 86 years. Which leaves
little Denmark.
\ Cuba, which, ostensibly, led the fight against
British-French aggression in Egypt, joined Russia,
Afghanistan, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syria
and Yugoslavia in abstaining from a vote.
Perhaps it was hidden under its blushes. While
its dictator Government, which came into
existence as the result of a military coup
d’etat in 1951-52, was shrilling its indignation
and moving the key resolution against British
Violence in November, its own dissidents began
a little revolt about which most of the press
has been strangely silent. Hundreds of saboteurs
went to jail untried and 21 young revolutionary
leaders were found dead, shot through the head
and hanging on trees. They included students,
workers and a Communist leader.
The Cuban Government professes to believe
that the rebels did the shooting and hanging of
their own leaders. But the anti-Government
Orthodox party said that the Batista Govern-
ment was turning Cuba into the “Hungary ot
the Antilles” and the Autentico party, which
was thrown out of power by force 6y the
Batistas in 1952, speaks in a manifesto of the
“macabre spectacle of 21 Cubans slam precisely
on the day of peace and Christian love, the day
of our Lord’s nativity.”
It throws a bright light on the sources ot
United Nations’ moral force.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
VTALE Santa Claus! In a city'chain-
* store, a child excitedly announced,
“Guess who lives here? Father
Christmas!” The weary mother replied,
“Not now, Luv; ’e’s went!” —“Loma
Doone.”
+j+
“Doric”: Don’t imagine that with TV
you will see all the latest films ip your
own home. The national station
starred “Sanders of the River,” which
must be at least 20 years old, “San
Demetrio —London,” an early World
War II film, and “The Ghost Goes West,”
also of ancient vintage. Drive-in theatres
are showing films we have all seen, but
not by any means antiques like these.
Expect TV soon to announce a big star
attraction: “The Birth of a Nation.”
“Ess”: As to overworked phrases (B.
26/12/’56) how about “let’s face it”?
Newspapers relentlessly force us to “face
it,” as though it were the morning
shaving-mirror. “Let’s face it —Australia
must develop rapidly or face extinction” ;
“Let’s face it—Australia is doomed if we
can’t find a good lefthand bowler.” Full
of the camaraderie of down-to-earth, no-
nonsense realism, it puts us shoulder-to-
shoulder with simple, sincere fellows like
Frank Packer, R. A. G. Henderson, and
Ezra Norton, seeing the thing clearly,
resolute, undismayed. Let’s face it —what
would journalists do without it?
$
“Ceg”: I see attractive possibilities in
the report from England that at a com-
pany-meeting a Birmingham shareholder
objected strongly to the directors’ policy
with three well-aimed eggs and a soft
tomato. Two commissionaires escorted
the* shareholder from the room while the
secretary took official notice of the
“objections.” ,
4J4 454
“El Arena”: Am intrigued to note how
often the word “king” is used by copy-
writers to suggest both size and excellence
—particularly in advertisements in maga-
zines from the world’s oldest republic.
And, in fact, when the first Yanks arrived
in Australia for World War II and one
visited some of them who had been put in
military hospital for complaints contracted
on ship, the constant praise these demo-
crats had for the Australian authorities
was, “They’ve treated us like kings!”
454 454 4^4
“Sevenbloodyelms”: It is not always
appreciated that the ebullient practice of
inserting the Great Australian Adjective
into the middle of such words as
“Absolutely” and “Hooray” is dignified
by being described as tmesis. The
Greeks had to have a word for it.
454 ❖ ❖
“Zorok”: A pub in the Sydney suburb
of Epping has—contiguous to its Bottle
Department and with its name similarly
printed in gold-lettering on the appropri-
ate glass door —a Relief Department. It’s
the only one of that name I’ve been in.
4is4 4^4
“Tackline S.”: Hong Kong is the only
city in the world where I’ve enjoyed
shopping for the wife’s glorification. In
Nathan-road an Indian’s shop sold me a
brocade jacket and length of identical
material for a dress. A Chinese tailor
summoned from around the corner looked
at the wife’s measurements on a slip of
paper I handed him, ran the tape over a
shopgirl of very different proportions
from my wife’s, and asserted that my
lady’s waist was two inches more than
stated. I told him to please himself. An
hour-and-a-half later I took delivery of
the dress, and, together with jacket, it
was posted to Australia. Opening the
parcel the wife found it hard to believe
such magnificent clothing could be got
anywhere . . . Cost me a fiver all-told.
The tailor was right. It fitted perfectly.
❖ ❖ *
“Alma”: Those busmen who apply the
brakes to propel their passengers into the
cabin (B. 19/12/’56) could learn a thing
from the driver of a London bus on which
I had a hilarious trip, along from South
Kensington to Hyde Park Corner. The
conductor had obviously stopped-off
for a break at the Pig and Whistle; so,
it seemed, had the driver. Our progress
along the orderly Cromwell-road was a
gay succession of near-misses, punctuated
by very sudden stops that jet-propelled
all but the most tenacious passengers into
little heaps in the centre. I hope no one
reported the pair to the Transport
Department. As the bowler-hatted gent,
on whose umbrella I was nearly impaled
as I flew girlishly into his lap said,
"That's got rid of everything, Mrs. Gluckenham .”
“True or false ?”
“Nothing like this sort of thing to bring
us together! ”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Hattie Hop”: A young man was
recommended to me as a tenant, as
neither drinking nor smoking. Now he
tells me that he likes his glass of beer
every day. He doesn’t consider this
drinking, apparently. An older man told
me that he had given up drinking. I
congratulated him, but found that by a
“drink” he meant beer. He admits that
he doesn’t refuse a nip of whisky or
brandy. I suppose if I gave up tea and
drank coffee I would feel virtuous,
because I prefer tea. I wonder what their
idea of not smoking should convey, and
what substitute they use for that.
>*«
“Ajax”: “Ceg” (B. 26/12/’56) slants a
different angle from my experience of
buying a used car. Many years ago I
bought one at a public car-auction. A
few weeks later I received a demand
from a finance firm to stand
and deliver, as the car was
the security in a hire-
purchase contract. Among
six other buyers at the sale
who received similar de-
mands, I was the only mug
who complied. My lawyer
advised me to surrender and
sue the auctioneer. I was
sceptical; I considered that
the auctioneer merely acted
as agent for the vendor —in
this case a dealer. This
opinion was upheld when
the case was thrown out of
court by the late Judge
Curlewis. My ears are still
burning from his scathing
comments about fools who
buy used cars without inves-
tigating titles. Later, I pro-
ceeded against the dealer
who commissioned the
auctioneer, and got a ver-
dict, but on the “no blood
from a stone” axiom, the
amount granted was never
paid. The dealer ended in
being convicted and sen-
tenced for fraud. The other
six buyers firmly resisted the
finance company’s demands
to surrender, and no further
action was taken. As a lay-
man I am unable to say if an
action would lie, but I hae ma doots.
+♦♦ ♦> +;♦
“Quo Vadis”: Loud-mouthed, * impu-
dent, the young widgie-type drove up to
the country police-station for her driver’s
licence. She intensely irked the copper
in charge. Yes, she knew all the traffic
rules and regulations. “The indication
when about to reverse?” he asked. Well,
no ; perhaps she didn’t know that, ‘‘How
far do .you park from the kerb?”
Flustered now, she mixed kerbs with
corners: “Thirty feet.” “You walk home,
and have another go next week,” the Law
told her sweetly. She’s still angrily
checking-up. / couldn’t tell her the
reverse-signal; my garage-man says
there isn’t one!
♦> ❖ ❖
“J. 8.”: Can’t beat your Carbine Cafe.
“P.0.M.C.” (B. 19/12 / ’56), but was
rather touched by an ad. on the wall of a
brick building fronting Stirling Highway,
Perth. Admittedly the colors had faded
somewhat, but below the painting of a
spirited chestnut horse with jockey up ran
the caption: “Phar Lap was good. So
are our cars.”
♦S- -5*
“Miss M.”: The office building had a
large flat roof, where some of the boys
practised passing and tackling; the
policeman on point-duty, six stories below,
was visibly astonished by the sudden
arrival of a football. All was made
clear when a powerful voice from on high
called, “Just punt it back up, will you,
mate?”
❖ +> ❖
“0.W.W.”: According to the Welling-
ton (N.Z.) “Dominion” at least three
parsons belong to a nudist club there. No
doubt they wear their haloes back-to-
front at club meetings.
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Ellfer”: We were having a festive-
season drink. One man who always
pleases me because he notices what milady
is wearing remarked “I do like that green
velvet dress —yes, I know, you just ran
it up out of a piece of curtain-material.”
Full of umbrage I replied, “Curtain-
material, my foot! I paid two-quid a
a yard for this, and what’s more it’s beer-
repellent!” He was impressed!
♦J* ♦♦♦
I have no sentiment but praise
With which to mark the holidays.
In fact, l took such honest pleasure
In the comestibles and leisure
Of lavish living, so to speak,
l yearned to take another week.
On second thoughts, I judged it best
To go to work to have a rest!
N.S.W.
P.O.M.C.
THE UNIQUE TRAVELLER
Says Casey, that much-travelled man,
He has not been invited,
As yet, to go to see Japan,
But he will be delighted ;
One likes one’s Foreign Minister
To fossick round and have a look,
The more since it will not occur
To him to write a travel-book.
He may report to Parliament
On Japanese conditions; ►
The yen the yen has for the cent,
The naval dispositions;
For him the cherry-trees in sprifig
May spread their lying jiggerypook,
But never, never will he bring
Himself to write a travel-book!
Perhaps some day it may befall
We’ll get the Casey Memoirs
On how it felt to rule Bengal,
And Middle East dilemmoirs;
And what he really thinks of Bob . . .
But —here l trust I’m not mistook —
He’ll never spoil a brilliant job
By putting-out a travel-book!
The Envoy
Prince, for one traveller I yearn,
Statesman or citizen, saint or crook,
To leave Australia and return
Yet never write a travel-book !
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


'T'HE central feature of our road-safety
week was a wrecked car in the main
shopping-centre. The vehicle was cer-
tainly smashed ; hardly a portion of it
had escaped damage as it hurtled a few
days earlier through a safety-fence and
down a high embankment. But its
dramatic message was somewhat diluted
by the fact that the driver escaped un-
injured. To many the exhibit was a
tribute to motor-vehicle design, and what
a car-driver could get away with. Only
the site of the display provided food for
thought: I’m sure the organisers did it
unintentionally, but it was located
between the police-station on the left and
a pub on the right.—“B.A.H.”
♦2* +J+ *2+
“Aqua”: Someone slapped him on the
back after he had been diving for coins
at Geraldton, and now, 27 years later,
doctors have retrieved from Mr. Farrell,
of Mullewa (W.A.), a sixpence and a
threepence. The 6d. is thought to repre-
sent compound-interest on the 3d.
$ ♦S-
“Pillo”: People are making those little
model letter-boxes pretty realistic these
days. There’s one on a property in West
Heidelberg (Vic.) built like a house and it
even has a TV-antenna.
“Ladimac”: In boarding-
school days we took a weekly
visit upstairs for our medicine.
This ordeal took place in the
bathroom, and after being
given our glasses (full to the
brim) we would line-up near
the row of windows, pre-
sumably to admire the view—
our glasses would be empty in
no time. When this trick was
discovered, we were all given second
doses. Once, feeling unusually 1 virtuous,
I drank my first dose in one gulp and
returned my glass. “Wait a minute,”
came the commanding voice; “you were
over near that window, weren’t you?”
Struck dumb with horror, I could only
nod ; and then, despite my protestations,
I was giyen a second dose. From that
day on I dutifully poured my first glass
out the window.
“Alma”: Tell “Tom Trout” (B.
19/12/’56) to top off his Continental
meal-hours in Spain, where the fashion-
able hour to dine is about 10. However,
one fits neatly into the picture if pre-
pared to follow the (to me) pleasant
Spanish example of a lateish lunch, made
all the more pleasant by a bottle of very
good and cheap wine, a long siesta;, and
then, about five or six, several cups of
what seemed to be the only properly-
made tea on the Continent.
“C.1.C.”: “Archaen” (B. 28/11/’56)
isn’t correct in saying that nobody had
cashed-in on the name “Flying-saucer”
until an Adelaide engineer adopted it as
a trade-mark for a new kind of V-belt
pulley. The Alfa-Romeo car manu-
facturers, of Milan, Italy, used the
translation of it, Disco Volante, as the
name for a new-model sports-car, first
put on the market a few years jago. It has
the flying-saucer shape, but this has a
very practical use, being designed to
“After two-thousand years you d think the council Would do
something about it.”
reduce the effect of a side-wind at high
speed.
♦l* ♦> , ❖
“Miss M.”: Our eight-year-old got
The Modem World Book of Ships from
the library, and at lunch mentioned “the
Implacable that fought against the
Victory at Waterloo.” Told that he meant
Trafalgar, then reproved for arguing, he
indignantly opened the book and showed
us a picture with the caption: “The old
Implacable which fought against the
Victory at Waterloo is towed to her last
resting place.”
“Spenton”: Many a Yank globetrotter
in England has stopped-over at Maid-
stone, Kent, to visit at All Saints Church
the tomb of Lawrence Washington,
kinsman of their George. Above the
tomb of Lawrence is the family-crest,
composed of stars-and-stripes; and the
open-mouthed tourist from Gahd’s Own
is surprised to learn that “Old Glory” is
a plagiarism from an English family-
crest that was in existence centuries
before the word “America” was in the
language.
* +> ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: A whiskered ancient,
once reserved for novice telephone-lines-
men, was featured among the cables in
my morning-paper: the laying of a fire-
alarm cable under a highway in New
Jersey (U.S.) depended upon inducing a
rat to pass through 730 ft. of pipe with a
string tied to its tail; the string (or rat’s
tail) snapped, and the fire-alarm remains
open-circuit. In Sydney the job would
be completed in an hour. Flexible cane-
rods, screw-jointed together, would be
pushed through the pipe or duct and
drawn out the other end, trailing a light
rope on which the cable would be drawn
in.
❖ . ❖ *>
“The Bunyip”: ’Twas good of Angus
to pipe the' wee bairn asleep (B.
26/12/’56), but I’m wondering how he
managed it wi’ the bag o’ his pipes
draped across his arm, instead of tucked
underneath where it could be squeezed.
And that from an artist-laddie named
McGregor! Hoots!
* »3»
“Joel”: Spoke to several Poms, about
“manchester” as a term for household
linen (B. 2/1/’57), and all agree that the
term is used extensively in the Old Dart.
Further suggestion was that this place
must be overrun with New Englishmen
who wouldn’t know that “mantles” means
frocks and overcoats, who’ve never eaten
fried peas from a greasy newspaper and
who’ve never tasted a real hot-pot. Last
shot in their locker was that the liftman
who said he didn’t go as far as Man-
chester was under notice and indulging in
Cockney humor.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Carlyle”: Last year the wife of our
M.P. was asked to judge a regatta-girl
contest; she selected a girl whom she con-
sidered outstanding for poise, grooming
and graceful lines. . The choice was not
popular; the lass had scooped the pool
as “belle-of-the-ball” at almost every town
in the district. So the M.P.’s wife received
an anonymous letter challenging the
decision and pointing out that the winner
had committed a fashion faux pas in
wearing a small hat. A venomous post-
script added: “And she has thick ankles,”
each letter being heavily scored. At this
year’s regatta the same girl was awarded
the prize by a different judge. The size of
her hat was not reported, but, as the
M.P.’s wife commented mildly, pre-
sumably she had the same ankles.
* *
ON a liner nearing Adelaide off
Kangaroo Island, she bore down on
the ship’s post-office requiring a dozen
stamps for her packet of Christmas-cards
painstakingly addressed crossing the
Bight.
The postal-officer, courteous to the last
band of braid : “Madam, if they are only
Christmas-cards, would you mind holding
them till we get to Adelaide? We have
only a limited number of stamps and are
trying to conserve them for more
important mail.”
“Oh, and whose mail is more important
than mine?”
“Madam, I did not say that at all. I
merely said”
“I heard exactly what you said. You
think my mail is not important! Will
you sell me the stamps, please?”
“Madam, I didn’t say”
“I heard perfectly what you said. Do
you sell me the stamps or do I see the
Purser?”
“Madam, I was only trying to”
“Then I shall see the purser—or the
captain, if need be.”
“Very well, Madam, I shall sell the
stamps to you.”
And he did.
She stood in full possession of the
postal-counter in a fuming fuss. She
tore the stamps apart, licked them with
a delicate stiletto tongue and fixed them
with diamond-encrusted fingers to the
twelve addressed letters. Then in
victorious grandeur she strode to the slot
and posted the lot into the sealed St. John
Ambulance Used Books and Magazines
box standing near the post-box.
Realising too late what she had done,
and scarlet with crushed dignity, she once
more faced the postal-officer with her
confession.
“Ah, madam,” said he; “very interest-
ing indeed. Now we shall have to get the
purser. The key of that box is in
London!”
They had to prise it open and tip the
mass on the floor. It was a welter of
used books and papers, together with
rubbish that' kids and smart-alecks had
“posted” —empty cigarette-packets, used
ice-cream “buckets,” a ping-pong bat, etc.
The postal-officer took his time; a cheer-
ful throng, as usual, gathered, and Madam
was not one little bit happy.!.
The postal-officer was on top of the
world. With perfect courtesy and no
trace of levity, he didn’t miss a tricky
He methodically picked up each “foreign”
body in turn and held them up with a
polite “Did you post this, Madam? . . .
or this? ... or this? ... not this, surely?”
(holding up a banana to the howls of the
gathered audience).
Relentlessly he wore the old girl to a
fragment, recovering, at well-ordered
intervals, the whole of the misposted
twelve. The lot recovered, he instructed
Madam exactly where to post them “to
avoid further confusion,” and said, as she
disappeared down the “D”-deck corridor,
that he “was glad to have been of service.”
I don’t think I have ever been present
at a more interesting situation. The St.
John Ambulance Box is now on the
opposite side of “D”-deck vestibule.
SPENCER C.
A RARA AVIS
“Farmer, 60, no bad habits, wishes to meet
lady, view mat.”—' "S. M. Herald” personal
column.
He doesn’t even mention that the dame
He’d wed should have a shapely sort of
frame,
Or face that has at least SOME
decoration;
That she must be a wizard with a pie.
Or know her cows, he fails to specify.
In fact, he makes no single stipulation.
Whether he’s short and fat; or long and
lean;
A sad-sack; full of fun;or in between;
Goes in for maize, or wheat, or simply
rabbits,
His published plea for partner doesn’t
state.
But this he dangles as a special bait:
He hasn’t any deleterious habits.
Belted in bingy by a charging ram
He wouldn’t even say a modest “Damn !”
Let alone use an awful word like
“bloody.”
He’d never think to contradict his spouse;
Or go into the best room in the house
To pluck a duck, or when his boots
were muddy.
Were breakfast late he wouldn’t chew the
rag;
He doesn’t sniff or snore, banter or brag.
Given a secret, he would never blab it.
He doesn’t dunk the biscuits in his tea,
Gustily s-r-r-rp his soup, or chase the
flea.
It is his boast he hasn’t one bad habit!
A paragon of every virtue, he.
Self-discipline he has in high degree.
He never blows his top, flies off the
handle
When neighbor’s bull keeps busting down
his fence,
Or when his crop is seized with pestilence.
He’d never think of peddling local
scandal.
He doesn’t read the naughty weekend
mags.,
Soak beer, suck fags or bet on dogs or
nags .
Were cleanskin to stray in, he’d nefer
grab it.
He’s never quarrelsome, no stickybeak.
He is, in fact, a cocky thafs unique.
He just can’t rustle-up one good bad-
habit !
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Back in 1932 two brothers, George and
Bill, decided to have a stab at. the radio
business and, with £l2O, an old Huprno-
bile and a kit of tools between them, set
up shop in the Sydney suburb of Mosman.
George, who was on leave from Colonial
Sugar in Fiji, returned to his job and
sent financial assistance to the infant
business until he resigned from C.S.R.
and joined his brother in Mosman in
1935. From the early days, when it was '
almost a matter of making and selling
one set to buy parts for the next one, the
partnership went on to become a pro-
prietary company and concentrate on
the manufacture of car-radios, becoming
one of the best-known names in that line.
Today, the public company into which
the original partnership has grown has
two factories covering 50,000 square-feet
at Brookvale, near Sydney, and over 400
employees; as well as car-radios, it pro-
duces TV-aerials and radio and TV parts
and has just come on the market with a
new TV-receiver. These days, brother
Bill—-William Malcolm Ferris —lives at
Roseville conveniently close to the golf-
course, and brother George—George Ivan
Ferris —at Mosman, of which munici-
pality he was Mayor from 1951-53.
• •
Retired as chief viticulturist in Victoria,
D. G. Quinn, who’s been 21 years with
that State’s Department of Agriculture.
Holder of a diploma from the S.A. Agri-
cultural College at Roseworthy l , he served
with the A.I.F. in France in War I.
• •
Queensland’s blind cattle-breeder, A ,J. T.
Scrymgeour, has decided to disperse
his Netherby Poll Shorthorn stud in
March. “Scrym,” who is 70, has bred
top-quality beef-cattle at Netherby, near
Warwick, for 33 years. He lost his sight
in the 1914-18 war, but overcame the
handicap to become one of Queensland’s
foremost cattle-breeders. Since 1930,
Netherby cattle have won 175 champion-
ships at Royal Shows in the eastern
States; in all over the past 33 years
Scrymgeour has collected nearly 16,000
first-prize ribbons.
• •
“Allan B.”: A word more about
William John Jungwirth’s New Year
knighthood (B. 9/1/’s7)—it sets a prece-
dent. Up till now heads of State depart-
. ments could expect no more than a
C.M.G. Jungwirth, still a year the right
side of 60, has been permanent head of
the Vic. Premier’s Department since 1935.
Before that he was one of the State’s best-
known public servants as private-secretary
to various Premiers, from 1922, when he
was 25. He was State director for the
1954 tour by the Queen and Duke of
Edinburgh, and was joint Commonwealth
director for the latest tour, travelling with
the Duke from Malaya through to New
Zealand, where he. was when his knight-
hood was announced. Sir John is also
very active as a Methodist and Rechabite.
• •
Westralian Rhodes Scholar for .1957,
21-year-old Michael George McCall,
hopes to be one of the first medical
graduates from his own university before
he goes on to Oxford for further study.
He did the first year of his medical course
in W.A., the next three years at Adelaide,
and will do his final year at his original
university before taking up his scholar-
ship in 1958. He also hopes to get a
Rugger blue at Oxford, having played for
his school, university, and State. Other
outdoor interests are golf, yachting and
swimming.
• •
“Weft”: I joined The Bulletin a few
years before David Low left the paper
to go to London, but I can’t recall seeing
him often. He was then stationed in
Melbourne, having taken over from Alf
Vincent. But when the dapper and alert
little New Zealander did come up to
Sydney everybody in the office, including
managing-director William Macleod (who
was also art-editor) and editor S. H.
Prior, seemed to make a great fuss of
him.
Margaret Cox-Taylor, the social
editress, would brush the dust off her
best cups and make Low a special brew.
Arthur H. Adams and Ernest O’Ferrall,
both hopeless tea-addicts, would sit in
the social-editress’s room and chat with
the caller. John Barr, C. A. Jeffries and
David McKee Wright didn’t care much
for tea, but in their own fashion made
him welcome.
One thing that struck me about Low
at that time was the way he dressed. His
trim figure seemed made for the wearing
of well-cut, fashionable suits, and with his
bowler hat, cane and gloves he was a
striking contrast to mpst of the freelance
artists who used to assemble at The
Bulletin office on Friday afternoons. '
• •
Canterbury University College (N.Z.)
has added to its professorial furniture two
new Chairs and installed in them members
of its lecturing-staff. Professor S. R.
Siemon, a native and graduate of Bris-
bane, occupies the Chair of Chemical
Engineering. He was with the Queens-
land Meat Industry Board and part-time
lecturer at Brisbane Tech, before he went
to Canterbury as lecturer in applied
chemistry in 1944. Professor A. Crowther
(Physiology) is an Englishman who came
to New Zealand in 1938, to join the staff
of Victoria College.
• •
“H.R.”: Took-off from Sydney for the
Himalayas at the tail-end of the Old
Year, Dublin-born Peter Byrne, who
heads the American-Nepalese Expedition
seeking the yeti, or Abominable Snow-
man. The several Yanks and about 20
Sherpas of the party hope to find and
photograph a yeti, prove him man or
monkey, and bring the full story back to
anthropologists. Byrne went to India
with the R.A.F. in 1943 and spent his
leaves trekking and climbing. He returned
after discharge to become a tea-planter,
but turned to big-game hunting as a pro-
ffssion. Sherpa guides interested him in
the yeti. Byrne came to Australia in
1954 and stayed. Last year he made a
private reconnaissance into Nepal and
gathered evidence strong enough to bring
forth finance for the present expedition.
This time he will be in the Himalayas for
three or four months, then back to a
public-relations desk in Sydney.
• S •
Queensland Government Printing Office
has had a Hancox on its payroll since
1880. “Young” John Hancox (66), who
retired the other day, served 51 years.
His father, also John Hancox, who is 89,
began at the office in 1880 and retired
in 1934, a stint of 54 years.
• •
A lanky, breezy fellow with a slight
American accent blew into The Bulletin
office the other day to talk about the
interest in Australian literature you strike
in American universities; for instance, at
lowa Uni., where a group under Professor
Merrill F. Heiser study the work of Aus-
tralian writers.
One lowa student, Martin Carroll, now-
a Jesuit at Boston, took as the subject
for his Ph.D. thesis the life and writings
of John Boyle O’Reilly, the Fenian who
was transported to Western Australia and
later escaped to the U.S.A., where he
became well known as poet and novelist;
material absorbed as a convict in Aus-
tralia was used in some of his writing.
The caller, who had a habit of denoting
agreement with an emphatic “Yup!”
turned out to be Thomas Hewitson
ADULT EDUCATION
Roberts, a Sandgroper, son of a Kal-
goorlie mine-manager. Went to Boulder
Central school when Bulletin writer
Gavin Casey was there ; went on to Kal-
goorlie High and Scotch College, Perth.
At the University of Western Australia he
studied English under Walter Murdoch;
collected his M.A. at Oxford ; taught at
the Modern School, Perth, for a while (at
252 George-street he ran into Phil Dorter,
an old Modern boy, been on The
Bulletin staff for nearly 20 years).
In America looking at student-institu-
tions and student-activities before War 11,
Roberts was offered the job of Professor
of Education at lowa. He served with
U.S. Forces, later with the A.1.F., ending-
up with Army Education. Went back to
the States, where, besides his university
post, he held down big jobs in various
adult-education organisations.
As mentioned on this page when he
returned to his home State some months
back, he’s now in the job he had 16 years
ago—Director of Adult Education in
W.A. His book Civil Defence for
American Adults is on its way to the
printers; an earlier one was Atomic
Energy for Adults.
• •
Few men have had longer association
with the Fremantle waterfront than 76-
year-old L. L. Bateman, one of the retir-
ing commissioners .of the. Fremantle
Harbor Trust. His family settled there-
abouts in Westralia’s foundation-year,
1829. As a boy he lived on the spot
where the North Wharf n9w stands,
played cricket on the site of the new con-
crete No. 10 Berth, and saw the start of
the building of the North Mole. He
served 37 years on the Harbor Trust, and
was chairman for the past 12. One of the
new commissioners, Norman Alexander
McKenzie, is the first waterside-worker
to be appointed to the Trust. A lumper
since 1928, McKenzie was secretary of
Fremantle branch of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation from 1946 to 1949.
Off the wharves he’s a member of East
Fremantle Municipal Council and a life-
member of the executive of the St. John
Ambulance Association
SIR JOSIAH FRANCIS, Australian
Consul-General in New York, one
of the two new Queensland knights.
J. A. Edwards, S.A.’s new soil-con-
servation officer, is a graduate of London
University and had wide experience of
conservation problems in Tanganyika
before joining Victoria’s official body in
that field a few years ago.
• •
Dr. Brian J. Grieve takes-over the
newly created Professorship of Botany
at the University of Western Australia.
Now 49, he had been Reader and head
of the department since 1947. A Mel-
bourne M.Sc. and London Ph.D., he
recently returned from study-leave in the
U.S. and U.K. under Fulbright, Rocke-
feller and Scandinavian cultural-fund
grants. In London his main work was in
the Royal Botanical Gardens at Kew,
where he made sketches and notes of
Westralian plants housed there, but not,
strangely enough, available in Australian
herbariums. The material collected at
Kew will form the third part of the Key
to the Flora of W.A., which he is com-
pleting and preparing for publication from
MSS. of the late Dr. Blackall, of Perth.
The first part was published in 1954, the
second is just out, and he expects to finish
the third in two or three years.
• •
“Eighty-nine”: George Charles Gollan,
who was U.A.P. and Liberal M.L.A. for
Parramatta (N.S.W.) for 21 years and
Minister in charge of various depart-
ments, had the unusual distinction of
having a public clock erected in his honor
in his lifetime (he died this month). Of
Gosford sandstone, 18ft. high, with three
dials, what is now a memorial stands in
Parramatta’s Prince Alfred Park, a
familiar sight to locals and to motorists
passing through. It cost £ll5O, raised by
public subscription, and was unveiled on
September 11, 1954 (Gollan retired from
public life in 1953).
Leaving England’s winter behind for
a > mor flh, Aberdeen-born H. (Harry) P.
Glennie is in Australia on behalf of J. A.
Preswich Industries, Ltd. Director and
secretary of this English company (manu-
facturer of J.A.P. engines), the pipe-
smoking Scot is attending the birth of an
Australian subsidiary, J. A. Preswich,
AUSTRALIAN SUBSIDIARY.
Virtue Pty., owned jointly with Moffat
Virtue, Ltd. The new co. will manufac-
ture and distribute J.A.P. engines in Aus-
tralia. Responsible for the financial
direction of the 60-year-old Preswich com-
pany, Glennie still finds time to swap
balance-sheets for a bag of golf-clubs
occasionally. He’ll fly home via America
after a lightning tour of our capital-cities
and some country districts.
• •
Back from the U.K., where he has
published three books since he went there
in 1953, Australian novelist Russell
Braddon. The third book, now being
filmed, deals with the adventures of New
Zealander Nancy Wake, an outstanding
heroine of the French resistance in War
11. Braddon’s own war-experience in-
cluded working as a p.-0,-w. on the
Burma-Siam death-railway—described in
a fourth book, Song of War, now in the
publishers’ hands. Braddon has headed
Snowy River way, where he’ll work as a
laborer in order to collect the sort of
material he wants for a new book.
• •
“Maitri,” on the passing of an old
friend and felloW-student:
Clement Quinton Williams, the Australian
baritone and teacher of singing who died
suddenly while holidaying at Boorowa (N.S.W.),
was educated at the C.E.G.S. (“Shore”), North
Sydney, served with the 7th Australian Light
Horse in War I, and later left his job with
Dalgety’s to launch out on his successful career
as a singer, taking his vocal training from
Albert Goossens and Guido Cacialli at N.S.W.
Conservatorium. While his voice was of no
great range and volume, it had well-nigh
perfect scale and beautiful quality. His
interpretations were never less than musical
and artistic; his Mozart singing was remarkably
satisfying. Numerous radio-engagements made
Williams’s name a household word throughout
Australia and New Zealand. From 1938 he
spent a number of years in Canada and the
U.S.A., where he became a popular broadcaster
and concert-artist. During recent years he had
been principal teacher of singing at the Elder
Conservatorium, University of Adelaide. He
married former Queensland pianist Enid Conley.
* *
Into the Silence:
In London, at 53, E. H. S. Miller, a native of
Invercargill (N.Z.) and formerly on the literary
staff of the “Sydney Morning Herald.
In Brisbane, at 86, Matthew John Scott,
formerly manager of Macdonald, Hamilton and
Co. in Queensland. He joined the company in
1890, in Melbourne, was purser in Maranoa,
Warrego and Pi Ibarra, became superintendent
of home-line business in Brisbane in 1909 (where,
among other things, he was concerned with
shipping remounts to India, then an important
Queensland industry), and was later agent for
the company in W.A. and Fiji. In charge of
the merchandise-department in Sydney for a
number of years, he went back to Queensland
in 1924, retiring in 1933.
In Sydney, at 77, Francis'William Young,
managing-director of N.S.W. Produce Co. With
the company for 60 years, he was a director of
several other companies, and for the past 20
years was president of the Wholesale Produce
Merchants’ Association. Also a trustee of
Beecroft Methodist Church.
At Devonport (Tas.), at 87, Henry Hector
(“Fighting Mac”) McFie. Before the turn of
the century he was fighting for Federation.
Member of municipal council and marine board
in his own district for many years, and later
a member of the State Assembly, he was a
dynamic personality.
In Melbourne, at 51, Captain J. W. Bull,
R.A.N.; general-manager since March, 1956,
of Garden Island dockyard, Sydney. During
War II he served in H.M.A.S. Australia in the
Atlantic, and in cruisers Adelaide and Hobart
in the Pacific. In January, 1942, he became
principal Naval overseer at Mort’s Dock,
Sydney, from 1942 to 1954 being the R.A.N.
officer mainly responsible for Australia’s Naval
shipbuilding.




ABORIGINALITIES
“'THAT’S a ‘Chinaman,’ ” said the
. expert, singling-out one saltwater
fish in our catch. “Might poison y’. Put
two-bob in the pan when y’ fry it. If it
stays bright, he’s 0.K.” We didn’t risk
the money.—“ Old Frank.”
* * * *
Rimutuka : A Brisbane man who
rescued an injured kookaburra put a
splint on the broken wing and housed
him in the pigeon-loft. During the weeks
of convalescence a certain camaraderie
grew between the big fellow and the 1
homers, and he would watch with every
appearance of interest their comings and
goings. The wing mended, and the world
looked attractive again, so Jacky was
released and became airborne with much
song and laughter. But the snug bunk
and the seemingly bottomless dish of raw
meat were not to be found on the green
fields of freedom, so back came Jacky,
to sit outside and size-up the situation!
Apparently deciding that what pigeons
could do he could do just as well, he
popped through the trap to comfort and
safety, thus starting a series of releases
and returns. He willingly uses the trap-
door to lock himself in for the night, and
must be Australia’s first homing kooka-
burra.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: Hot and hurried, he left
his coat hanging over the bench on the
country railway-platform. Next day, in
answer to a frantic phone-call from miles
away, local cops collected it, and the
half-dozen no-hopers who had made the
old station-building their overnight wine-
parlor-cwm-dosshouse glumly watched the
Law check its cash contents: £97 6s. Bd.
* * * *
“Miss M.”: Smithers, notorious for his
low flashpoint and uninhibited language,
had had all his teeth extracted, and a
prolonged diet of slops did nothing to
sweeten his disposition. When he went
to have his new set fitted he had the
dentist bluffed before operations started.
After much fluttering and soothing, the
bottom-plate was gingerly inserted, and
Tuggem asked how it felt. “Like,a b
horseshoe!” mumbled Smithers. Re-
doubled cooings and smoothings-down,
till he was calmed sufficiently for the top-
plate to be put in place. Again the query.
Smithers looked up with a cold eye.
“Well,” he rasped, “I thought I had a
damn’ horseshoe in before. Now it feels
like I’ve got the whole b hoof!”
* . * * *
“Woorarra”: I’ve a suspicion that
many birds, normally diurnal, roam a
bit at night. Hearing a noise outside the
house, I investigated and found a small
bronze-cuckoo lying, ahnost unconscious,
on the sun-deck. Apparently it had been
confused by the light and had crashed
into a window. I poured what would be
to a bird a lot of brandy down its throat,
wrapped it up warmly, and put it in a
box. Glanced at it several times during
the night, but the only sign of life was.
an occasional faint hiccup. In the morn-
ing I was surprised to see the little trickster
quite recovered and apparently rarin’ to
go. Took it to a window, but it clung
for several seconds to my finger before
taking-off. It played about in the garden
for two or three hours, as if reluctant to
leave the premises. Since then it hasn’t
left the area, and sometimes during the
night I hear its mournful trilling. Perhaps
it remembered the brandy.
* * * *
“Water Bore”: Christmas Eve: the
boss, up Parachilna way, wires, “Going to
Evening Peal.” Certainly a Christmas
handicap—and what a bore! Completed
last Cup-day, it was tested 500 gallons an
hour and excellent water. But, a bit of
sand complicating things, the column-
pipes have to be pulled up . . . I am
“Is this O.P.?"
always intrigued by bush-nomenclature,
Dispensing tea to neighbors, I gather
this useful information, re pastoral con-
ditions in general, and in pertickler: “A
nice bit o’ pickin’ out in the Breakfast
Time!” “Yairs, yer know my Lubra’s
lookin’ nice and green, too!”
~ „. „ „
“Papalangi”: Though all sea-snakes
are equipped with venom-glands and
fangs, some of them are much more
hostile and dangerous than others. A
species universally feared by natives is
the one that’s most frequently washed
ashore after storms on the coasts of
southern Queensland and northern
N.S.W.; the • black-and-yellow Pelamis
bi-color. Another treated with much less
respect is the timid banded sea-snake. In
appearance it slightly resembles our
common bandy-bandy, but its bands are
There's no double-S in that word — you've put the comma in the
Wrong place — can't you spell at all?"
not black and white, as would appear at
first glance, but very pale and very dark
blue. I have seen a party of reef-fishing
Tongans streak out of the water when a
black-and-yellow snake appeared, but a
little earlier the lads of the party had
been scaring shrieks out of the girls by
picking up one of the banded! snakes and
tossing it among them. The snake made
no attempt to strike, its one desire being
to wriggle ashore to escape from its
tormentors. The fangs of a dead three-
footer I examined were little more than
gin. long, so its strike would be compara-
tively impotent.
♦ * * *
“Bass”: Almost every day for the last
month or so I’ve come across baby
tortoises waddling down to the swamp.
At a guess I’d say they were a month or
so old, so this wasn’t their initial dash to
water after hatching ; and as another,
smaller, swamp lies less than half-a-mile
away in the direction .from which they
came, I assume they were migrating
Half-a-mile is not a great way for an
adult tortoise—l’ve found them miles
from the nearest water, plodding through
dust and heading unerringly for a fresh-
water-river—but it’s a fair step for a
youngster, and must involve a lot of
casualties from magpies, butcher-birds
and kookaburras. The swamp from
which they moved dries-up each summer,
while the one on my property doesn’t;
hut there’s still a couple of months to go
before the former swamp dries—so why
hid they leave it? Not lack of food —
that would become more concentrated as
the swamp dried-up. My guess is pre-
knowledge.'
*
“Old Mac”: Naturally the goanna is
much more vulnerable to attack by birds
when he is up a tree (B. 19/12/’56);
having to hang on with all four feet robs
him of the flexibility of movement he has
on the ground. In ground-action against-
an eagle he leaps, rears, twists and circles
with lightning speed, using the powerful
spring of his long, muscular tail to speed-
up his turning movements, snapping with
jaws and raking with claws. Up a tree the
best he can do is keep the trunk between
him and the beak and claws of his enemy ;
and that he does quite well.
* * * *
“Warwick”: Saw £ swarm of about 100
zebra-finches and redheads near Prospect
Reservoir (N.S.W.) carefully guarding in
their midst a robust yellow canary.
QUEENSLAND
I saw a great shape rising out of earth, and it
was earth.
1 saw a huge, sad, siient, red-yellow face by thin
bluegums covered,
And under that the blue pools of a thousand
summers soaked slowly;
And in great golden wedges, like a dream, fast
toward it 1 moved, too.
With us and for us and about us and over us,
Racing fast as our train and slow as our minds,
With the stony-faced Richmond beneath and
below us,
And the dry, golden-branched face of Australia
incarnate in Queensland . . .
For this great golden thing was Queensland, a
golden heap of her,
The queenliest thing on earth.
Like a blue arid gold dream she shimmered
about us,
Like the unfindable blue smoke from bronze
fires.
And hours of her moved and trampled and
danced and whirled by us,
And at last rushing into the darkness of the
stone tunnel we left her
And into another part of her golden frame we
came.
It was here, blazing by the water-tower or
the grey hut,
That the huge, soft, purple jacaranda grew,
It was here that the flametree softly blossomed
in petals
Above old Queensland chimneys; and the
brightest, purple, imperial bougainvillea
Spread itself, still half-leaf, half-flower, waiting,
Burning with a different fire from the subdued
voice of New South Wales.
It was then that I saw in an arid dry garden
the golden full breast
Of the strange undying pawpaw, as domestic
as a fowl,
Lying heavy in a Queensland backyard, full as a
breast,
Maternal, naked, indelicate to one Cyclopean
eye,
And just a yellow, precious, rounded stone of
a jewel to yet another.
Queensland, the golden country, is thus visited
by golden peacocks.
And gently the mind picks at the bronze paw-
paw sagging among its leaves.
But after that Queensland changed her mind
and began to surge and move
Greenly and slowly beneath us in long river-
flats and brown rivers.
Her golden, painted landscape—hills and the
sunburnt red trees—
Took the bronzed declining sun with their
eternal shields,
And like a long dry golden woman, eternally
alone, set in earth,
This dry green river-sashed body, golden and
blue-maned
At a place called Mt. Lion,
And grey with summer’s agony at a place
called Kangaroo,
Swam like a long, dry, golden fish beside our
galloping, laughing train,
Sorrowing perhaps that she could not rise and
walk straight as a god
Beside us, stalk with our train, slowly, gravely,
still bound in her dream ...
Sometimes her eyes were the long, brown, slow,
flat rivers,
Then again they were those eternal, high, golden
hills above us; .
And then again the bronzed, red, sunset-hued
gums;
Or swiftly with the train were at the one moment
Golden pawpaw, fiery flametree, mauve
jacaranda and purple bougainvillea.
But this queen, imperial, because she had for
so long forgotten her splendor,
Lost in grave great dreants at Mt. Lion where
her golden mane
Wore the thousands of jewels that the blue-
grey far-off gumtrees wore,
Moved and swam with us. Earth and river
swimming in our wheels and noise,
Until we had seen all her high queenliness,
wedge by wedge, birdless,
And had come to her native note—the straight,
unceasing, branchless,
Classic, Greek, purple-slashed eucalyptus. These
were bright blue,
Soft blue, classiQ blue, and then were slow
yellow or bright sallow again.
And all these, natively marked, as with Maori
carvings or mere words,
Slid sinuously past us, unswervingly straight,
branchless, flutes of the shn,
That sang of the miles, for miles, from soft
green heads waved in a rich land.
QUEENSLAND.
EVE LANDLEY.
WORKING-BEES
T’M an addict. Be it kirk or cricket-
pitch, chicken-coop or cement-path,
annihilating a School of Arts or resur-
recting cyclone-clouted outbuildings,
yours industriously will be there.
Some turn-up for the smoke-ohs. You
can see them masticating tea-and-scones
on altar-steps, juggling lamingtons on
the scaffolding, manhandling rock-cakes
in the rafters, lapping Cairns ale amongst
outbuilding debris.
You find polers and toilers, groaners
and grafters. You discover thwarted
tradesmen and potential contractors. Old
George will work fit to burst his poofer-
valve while young Joe will put in time
earbashing anyone who’ll listen.
It can all start with a scrawled message
slapped on the shopkeeper’s notice-board:
“See you at the Hall, Saturday afternoon,
2 o’clock. Working-bee. Bring own tools
and bottled lunch.”
Or, at Sunday church, the priest might
draw attention to the presence of snakes
in the churchyard, and hint that it will
take a St. Patrick or a good-sized working-
bee to clear them out: “Bring your own
rotary-hoes and motor-mowers, and tell
your friends.”
The answer to that appeal was Bob
rapping on the bay-window one summer
morning at 4.30, and he and I comprised
the curate’s working-bee until 6 pip emma.
In place of motor-equipment, two brush-
hooks did locum tenens toil for St.
Patrick.
But the new priest in town has the
answer: “Say it’s for the good nuns, me
bhoy, and they’ll roll up in their thou-
sands.” They rolled up, too —thirty of
them. Two volunteers were hustled to
work on the good nuns’ back lawn —“The
good Sisters, me bhoys”—and 28 were
shepherded to the presbytery yard to tear
it apart.
OLD CRAB.


NOMINATE Apollo Bay (Vic.) as the
steepest farming-country, in the State.
Heard a cocky there describe how one
of his cows had “fell out of its paddock.
—“Pillo.” '
* * * *
“J.J.A.”: It was around the century-
mark when she decided to burn the pile
of rubbish outside the garden-fence.
Three hours later the neighbor finished
putting it out in his paddocks two miles
away, then went to have words with the
dear old thing. “But,” she protested,
“it couldn’t possibly be the fire I lit.
Mine was only a small one!”
* * * *
“Ailsey”: Tell “Jock” (B. 26/12/’56)
that N.S.W. Registrar-General Christo-
pher Rollestone, referred to in an exhibi-
tion of land-title and other documents
in Sydney, was the R.-G. in 1857, not
1887. The exhibition commemorated the
centenary of the Registrar-General’s
Department’s establishment. Rollestone
was originally private-secretary to the
Governor-General (Sir ’William Denison).
The exhibition was organised by present
Registrar-General T. LeM. Wells, a
lawyer who won the M.C. as an A.I.F.
officer in World War I.
# * * *
“Sevenelms”: Cypress-pine has only a
slight claim to be connected with true
Cupressus such as was the basic
material of St. Peter’s doors and Noah’s
notable do-it-yourself effort on his
zoological caravel. “Cypress”-pines are
Finacece of the class Coniferales, and the
one of great repute is Murray-pine
(Callitris glauca ), whose dark knots are
tightly incorporated in the wood, but of
such hardness that it is general practice
to machine any flooring “green.” The
artistic use of this timber in an Adelaide
shopfront has recently aroused more
than local appreciation. In the Melbourne
Botanic Gardens a Callitris columellaris
graces the Hopetoun Lawn, and, with its
upswept billowing curves of dark green,
is the most eye-satisfying .tree in the
competitive surroundings of that bosky
area composed by Mueller and Guilfoyle.
Incidentally, at 481 b. per cubic-foot,
probably the hardest and heaviest
Australian “softwood” is Murray-pine.
* * * •
“H.A.L.”: The phrase most commonly
used by press and radio in flood-time is
that a river has “burst its banks.” I’ve
seen a lot of floods in my time, but only
once have I seen a river perform this
feat; that was when the Murray broke
through man-made levees during the
1931 flood at the reclaimed swamps in
S.A. On every other occasion the flood
overflowed the banks. The reason why
so many country towns get flooded when-
ever this happens is that they were laid-
out on low ground in order to be handy
to the water-supply in the days when the
only pumping-plants were wind- or steam-
driven, and most people carted their
domestic water on drays or in buckets.
Modern town-planning selects sites well
above flood-level, and the diesel or electric
rotary-pump makes nothing of lifting
water 50ft. or so for the town supply.
* * * *
“Wester”: The New Aussie visitor who
was given an emu-chick by the sheep-
station ringers soon discovered there’s one-
method of carrying these babies that’s not
so hot—in one’s shirt!
* * * *
“Motuku”: The isclaim of “Swelpme”
(B. 26 /12 /’56) that aviculturists have
saved the siskin —alias “tarin” or “black-
headed thistle-finch”—from extinction
can’t be allowed. The original canary was
introduced to Europe from the Canary
Islands in the 15th or 16th century and
was crossed by aviculturists with several
European finches—goldfinch, bullfinch,
linnet and siskin —all of which, in their
wild state, are still extant. There have
been many crossings and recrossings, but
some of the modern types of canary,
evolved by selective breeding, owe
nothing at all to the siskin.
* * * *
“Ex-Ped.”: Was it really a “house-rat”
(European black-rat or Norwegian grey-
rat) that “Kelms” saw nesting in the tea-
tree (B. 19 /12/ ’56)? I have never heard
of either of these species leading an
aquatic life or nesting in trees, though
they are expert swimmers and climbers ;
but the Western water-rat and the Wes-
tralian dusky-footed swamp-rat will nest
among tea-tree roots and stems if there
are no convenient hollow-logs, steep banks
for burrowing, heaps of driftwood and
other rubbish, or deserted swans’-nests,
for them to use. The swamp-rat is not
unlike the European black-rat, but it has
longer fur, a longer tail, a shorter nose
and dark-colored feet, and it is a vege-
tarian, feeding around the edges of
swamps ; so it would not be likely to
swim around looking for food. The
Western water-rat, a powerful swimmer
and an omnivorous predator, would
hardly be mistaken for a house-rat, as it
is much larger and has the typical white
tail-tip of our native water-rats. “K.”
might catch one of those lake-dweller
babies and have it identified.
# * * *
“J.J.A.”: Add to the queer places
plants grow, a cactus that favors me with
its presence. Somehow a piece found its
way into a discarded soft-drink bottle,
took root in the few rotted leaves in the
bottle, and there it flourishes. As the
bottle-mouth inclines downwards, the
plant’s only drink is from condensation.
So it flourishes in a glasshouse all of its
own.
* * * *
“Bass”: Captured crayfish may exude
a fluid that attracts sharks, or they may
achieve the same result by means of a
built-in radio (B. 19/12/’56); but my
spearfishing mate leaves the water quickly
with a Cray, because he reckons the clap
of its tail under water brings the nearest
shark pronto. He reckons the shark’s
idea is to beat him to the meal.
A
* * * *
“Miss M.”: The most admirable books
can be a mixed blessing in the home. A
friend here admits she’d be a much
better housekeeper but for What Bird Is
That ? Their property is rich in bird-
life, and at first glimpse or sound of a
strange bird she’ll drop everything to
grab the fieldglasses and Cayley’s master-
piece. Her husband, a sympathetic type,
remains tolerant, even when he comes
in for breakfast to find the table unset.
His wife and son, having robbed the cat
of its prey, will be poring over a dead
mouse and another fascinating time-
waster, Troughton’s Furred Animals of
Australia, arguing as to whether it’s a
Sminthopsis or a Planigale. Hubby,
though, does draw the line when asked,
in the middle of shearing, to gut some
small corpse so that it can be sent to the
ever-patient Mr. Troughton or Mr.
David Fleay for identification.
* * * *
“Kerba”: Rhino-horn wasn’t always a
“drug on the market” (B. 26/12/’56). In
his book Hunter, Kenya game-warden
John Hunter says he was paid more per
pound for rhino-horn than for ivory.
Indian rajahs were the buyers, and used
it as an aphrodisiac.
* * * *
“Kelms”: My reference to '“snakebite”
—not to “the bite of a poisonous snake” -
“Just hold your finger there a minute .”
(B. 19/12/’56) —wasn’t an error, and the
use of , this term is universal simply
because it’s the term most applicable to
the act. As “Eddas” says, poisonous
snakes “strike” ; but surely he can see the
difference between a strike that makes the
target and one that doesn’t. If the strike
misses, it’s just a strike; if it connects,
then the fangs are inserted and pressure
is applied to them by the lower jaw—
which makes a bite in anybody’s language.
“Snakebite” is accepted by all authorities
“The man should NOT be on parade if he's got lumbar-fibrositis."
to describe the actual penetration of the
fangs and the consequent injection of the
poison, and if “Eddas” wants to make
himself clear he’ll have to use it.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Though the dish was relished
by our Oldest Australians, frill-necked
jew-lizards seem to have a dire effect on
the domestic cat. We had a portly tom
in the country that became a “frilly”-
addict, with the odd result that his noble
proportions were reduced to little more
than skin-and-bone. He turned up his
nose at all other provender while the
supply of lizards lasted. Both snakes and
goannas seem to shy off Frilly, but
whether they are, disconcerted by his
horrific aspect or don’t fancy the taste I
wouldn’t know. It could be just his
courage. There aren’t many gamer things
on four legs than a frill-neck. He will
shape-up to anything from an approach-
ing car to a bull-pup:
# * * *
“Jock”: Saw in a Queensland pub a
collection of hundreds of pennies
arranged in four piles. When I was
there the brownies were at least a foot
high. Drinkers, I was told, left spare
coppers on the bar, and the Hebe added
them to the stack for one of the town
charities. Eventually a drinker with
more ebullience and bravado than
prudence tosses down a fiver for the
privilege of crashing the lot to the floor ;
and then another pile is started.
* * * *
“Tabba”: That par. about flavor and
old pots (B, 12/12/’56) reminds me of the
ploughman with whom I shared the bothy
(bachelor quarters) on a Scottish farm.
Upon moving in I determined to get
things off to a clean start. When Bob
came in from the stables he stared deso-
lately at the shiny frying-pan. “Ye’ve no
washet it?” he said incredulously. “It
haes niwer bin washet sin I came twenty-
five years ago, and the man afoor me
didna wash it either. Noo ye come wi’
yer newfangled ideas, and a man will hae
nee flavor in his tea for months.”
* * M *
“Pres”: Everybody in town was bent
on breaking the drought in a big way.
The mines had closed for Christmas and
the miners were drinking hard after a
hard day’s drinking. The streets and bars
(2) had their share of station-hands in for
the Christmas spree, too, so it was a wild
night in town. One of the high-heeled
boys staggered from the bar with a full
glass, took a sip, then poured the rest
reverently in the gutter, and went back
for another glass. Same again. Asked
him if he’d had enough. “Shure,” he
said. “I’ve had ’nuff, but while the keg’s
on gotta get y’r share. Can’t let all that
lovely beer go to waste.” And he
shouldered his way purposefully towards
the bar, where he was paying Is*. Old. per
7oz. glass.
**' * *
MOST brassed-off N.Z. inhabitant
over the festive season was old Sam,
road-mender, acting-unpaid Harbor-
master and sole occupant of one of the
bays at the bottom of South Westland,
once a fishing-settlement, but now with
only a wharf, some rusty sheds and about
50 miles of road which go nowhere.
It is a place of extremes ; when it isn’t
raining its 300 in. a year the sun is swelter-
ing while seals bask on the beach and
mosquitoes and sandflies attack.
There’s a pub about three days away
on horseback if you can cross the river—
so inhabitants are careful about grog.
They get it well ahead via the odd ship
or expensive air-freight.
At Christmas, while others crouched
in their huts in lonely bush-clearings and
began to gulp their way in silent ritual
through crates of beer and cases of spirits,
Sam restlessly patrolled the wharf and
stared out to sea, a forgotten man. His
hadn’t come. Nothing on the last plane,
and no sign of the fishing-boat that was
supposed to bring a last-minute desperate
order.
Sam peered moodily at the big slip
where the fishing-village and its two pubs
had been buried in the ’eighties.
Customers, takings and the doings were
still down there. Perhaps if a man
started digging . . . Sam couldn’t keep
his mind off the empty shed next to his
hut. Once it had been stacked to the
roof with grog for a special dance.
The dream channelled his thoughts into
a more practical groove. He grabbed his
bike and hurled himself into a 30-mile
marathon to the next settlement. There’d
be a drink there, anyway.
But Sam might have known the fates
were against him. Round the first bluff
a big slip had tumbled half the hillside
down into sticky mud and boulders all
along the road.
When Sam’s liquor did turn up he
consumed it doggedly, without enjoy*
ment, his taste ruined by two days, five
hours on water. ,
BORAX.


QUEENSLAND
* A
Portland
. sSj
NEW SOUTH WALES /
r\*/
\
"From
/
Cape York
to
Portland"-
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OP AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams,
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina:
S. L, G.‘ MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E, P, Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
lhe Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E.. Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. F. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B.
Tilemann. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District
Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J, W. Fletcher, 0.8-E. (Chairman)*
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon •
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley., Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. 0. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT23
Business.Rolleuy.Ete
OIL PROSPECT FOR 1957
[By L. Owen]
'T'HE two major oil-companies
engaged in the search for
petroleum on the Australian
mainland and in New Guinea
have both issued statements with
reference to their exploratory
programme for 1957.
The forecast of operations
issued nby Oil \ Search, Ltd.,
as to its Papuan activities
(B. 12/12/’56) is more precise
than that put forward by Wapet,
but this is only .to be expected,
as the technique and general
trend of the Papuan search has
been stabilised for several years,
whilst that of Wapet is still in
a state of flux since no really
satisfactory positive lead has
been given by the results of /that
company’s operations during
1956.
Oil-accumulation ,
Before analysing the hopes of
striking commercial petroleum in
the several areas under test, it
is advisable to reiterate the
general conditions affecting oil-
accumulation. The three most
potent factors in the segregation
of oil into commercial “pools”
are the depositional conditions
under which the “source” and
“reservoir” beds were laid down,
the subsequent geological history
of these strata and the present
form of the reservoir.
In the first analysis “Of field
data, the petroleum-geologist
has, perforce, to confine himself,
mainly, to existing structure and,
for that reason, the early drilling
in most new fields is governed
by structural considerations.
When the application of geology
to oil-exploration was in its
infancy, structure, in sedimentary
basins was the unique guide to
well-location. Its application
proved so successful —in com-
parison with uncontrolled drilling
(often loosely described as “wild-
catting”) that the mere
existence of an “anticline”
sufficed for the successful float-
ing of a company to prospect for
oil.
With increasing experience,
however, it was realised that
favorable structure, in itself, did
not justify the heavy expenditure
entailed in adequate testing;
increasingly, emphasis was laid
on the environment of sedimenta-
tion.
Later, largely as the result of
many failures, it was realised
that sedimental environment was,
again, only one of the factors
essential to the formation of a
commercial “pool” and that
other depositional conditions
were equally (and sometimes
more) important. It was learnt,
also, that thickness alone of
marine beds was no guarantee
of successful exploitation. Other
factors, such as the rhythmic rise
and fall of the floor of the basin
(in which sedimentation was
taking place, were essential.
These working hypotheses
have been recognised for several
decades by experienced pil-
geologists; today it is even
questioned whether marine
conditions of deposition are
requisite, and it has been pointed
out by competent observers that
there is every possibility that
the petroleum substance can be
formed in a brackish or even in
a freshwater environment.
Bearing the above factors in
mind, it is possible to make a
comparative evaluation of the
prospects of striking worth-
while oil in various parts of the
Australian mainland and the
Territories.
The Birdrong Sand
To start with the most
important area on the mainland
—the Wapet concessions in
Western Australia a drastic
revision of the company’s
exploratory technique was under-
taken' at the beginning of 1956,
but, for reasons beyond my
comprehension, , the Birdrong
sandstone was still looked upon
as a promising and probable
reservoir-bed.
In common with all other
“open” sandstones, Birdrong
possesses the physical attributes
of a potential oil-reservoir but,
even before a single well had
been drilled for oil, sufficient
evidence had been accumulated
at outcrop, and from water-wells,
that no trace' of oil was evident
at any point where this stratum
was exposed or had been
penetrated. It was unlikely,
therefore, to harbor commercial
quantities of petroleum. Outcrop
evidence indicated, also, the
existence of significant uncon-
formities and of considerable
periods of non-deposition within
the exposed geological column.
While these facts tended to
warn the experienced geologist
not to place too much stress on
the chance of persistence with
depth of the structures visible on
the surface, the location and
drilling of Rough Range No. 1
well was justified. The character
of the ozokeritic oil —so un-
expectedly struck at the Birdrong
horizon complicated the
problem, however, as it pointed
not only to long-distance
migration of the oil but also to
inspissation (drying-out) by
exposure on a pre-Cretaceous
land-surface.
The implications of these facts
have already been dealt with in
previous issues of The Bulletin
from as far back as the end
of 1953, so that they need not
be repeated here; but I would
again record my chagrin when I
learnt that the 1956 programme
for the testing of the Carnarvon
Basin was still to be controlled
by the expectation of striking
commercial oil within the Bird-
rong sandstone. There is always
a remote possibility that such
oil may be struck where the
conditions of Rough Range No.
1 well at that horizon are dupli-
cated, but the odds against
success —without the employ-
ment of a very specialised
chemical technique in well-
location are too great for
inclusion in any responsible
programme ; and, in my opinion,
the meagre chance diminishes
southwards.
Wapet’s 1957 programme will
be determined by “checking and
revaluating the results of
geological and geophysical field-
work and of all drilling carried
out in 1956 and in previous
years.” This statement is a
comforting one and augurs well
for future operations, par-
ticularly as the lesson of 1956.
was a harsh one.
In the Exmouth Gulf area, it
must be agreed on general
grounds that testing north of
Rough Range is more attractive
than testing to the south. But
why north-east, and why is the
surface trace of the major axis
of the Rough Range dome being
followed?
As has been stated in previous
articles, the deep-test on Dirk
Hartog Island is vastly intriguing,
and the Barrow Island survey
should produce results of
interest and, possibly, of
commercial value. I hope and
trust that Wapet’s 1957 pro-
gramme will lead to the success
which the company’s pertinacity
deserves. My only regret is that
the present programme was not
carried out in 1954 when—in my
opinion—the “Birdrong” policy
had already been discounted.
Wilkatana
In South Australia the finding
of traces and slicks of migrated
oil in well after well is
provocative, but it is difficult to
see how these non-commercial
manifestations justify the cost of
what amounts, practically, to
grid-drilling a technique
normally reserved for the
development and extension of a
proven field. The problem, here
also, is essentially a chemical
one.
In Victoria and in New South
Wales, the position, as I see it,
is depressing unless drastic
changes ih exploratory technique
are introduced.
In North Queensland and in
the Northern Territory, no
results which justify any
optimism have been published.
In Western Papua, the
exasperatingly tedious —but very
courageous—policy of systematic
elimination is, at last, bearing
fruit. The trek westward led first
to proof of the, existence of
porous and permeable strata at
depth, and, at Kurq, to the
presence of a sizeable reservoir
of high-pressure “wet” gas with
less than 1000 ft. of cover.
There is justification, here, in
looking forward to tangible
success as exploration continues
downwards and westwards.
Trade-balance and Freights
TT would almost appear that the
-*■ overseas, shipping interests
had been watching Australia’s
improving balance-of-payments
before, hopping in with a demand
for an increase of 14 p.c. in
freight-rates from and to Aus-
tralia.
For the half-year to December
31 the Commonwealth’s favor-
able trade-balance was £99.7
million, compared with a deficit
of £26.6 million for the same
period of the preceding year.
This is much better than was
expected at the time when
import-restrictions were inten-
sified in the last half of 1956,
and is the result, principally, of
higher wool prices and imports
falling away more steeply than
was anticipated.
But the year is not over yet,
and the stimulus given to wool
prices by the Suez situation may
weaken later. Also, the balance
of current “invisible” items has
to be offset against the trade
surplus before the actual balance-
of-payments can be ascertained,
and, even assuming that the final
half of the 1956-57 trading-year
is favorable, there may be little
or nothing added to our overseas
funds by 4 reason of trading
surpluses. There should, however,
be capital additions.
The position, whichever way
you look at it, is now much
better than even the optimists
expected six months ago. But
it is not so good that this country
can really aiJord to pay higher
freight-rates, either on its exports
(which makes competitive trading
more difficult) or on its imports
(which adds to the internal cost-
of living, already on the way
up through wage-inflation and
other factors).
Overseas shipping lines plying
to Australia have, in the main,
been doing very well, and they
have the game pretty much sewn-
up. There isn’t a great deal of
open competition outside the
“conference.” Naturally they are
entitled to take advantage of
trading circumstances, but at
present higher costs, where they
can be avoided, should be
avoided in the interests of
British Commonwealth economic
recovery post- Suez.
Furthermore, there should be
no attempt to pass-on high
British income-tax to buyers of
British goods' or users of British
services. As any amateur
mathematician will soon realise
after studying that angle,
attempts to pass on income-tax
will result in steep rises
in the cost of goods and services.
Yet throughout the world there
is an attempt to pass-on some
income-tax to the consumer, even
where the profit remaining is
intended to be ploughed-back
into the business. That is one of
the fundamental economic errors
in excessive company-taxation.
Henry Jones
SINCE the chairman of Henry
Jones Co-op. Co., Ltd.,
asked shareholders to be patient
a little longer before expecting
additional benefits the market
has' taken a more optimistic
view of the co.’s scrip. It has
firmed from around 475. to
545. 6d., to give the low
immediate yield of 3.7 p.c.
Earning-power for 1954-55
and 1955-56 covered the present
10 p.c. div. about three times,
and reserves are extremely lusty.
But at present the jam trade isn’t
at its best. The fruit-crop in
southern Australia isn’t up to
standard to begin with, and the
export trade is hampered by high
Australian costs.
Henry Jones has stabilised its
business very well by spreading
activities to overseas countries
to the extent that profits from
abroad have often been greater
(i Continued, on next page)


Public Notices
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from Persons, etc.,
insuring with any Insurance
Company not registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1956.
ALL persons, firms, companies and. associ-
ations being 1 owners, trustees; or 'agents
for any goods or property within the
Sydney Fire District, and every other
Fire District in the State of New South
Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1956, has been applied, in respect of
which premiums are paid to an insurance
company not registered in the State; are
hereby notified that they are required to
send to the Board of Fife Commissioners
of New South Wales, returns showing
the amount of such premiums paid by
them in respect of the said property to
such insurance companies during the year
1956.
The time appointed for the receipt of
the returns is on or before the 31st
January, 1957, subject to a penalty not
exceeding £1 per day for every day of
default.
Note: Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly
chargeable in respect of the fire risk
during the time such property was in any
Fire District under the said Act.
By order of the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales.
W. O. WIGGINS, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. .
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from Insurance Com*
panies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1956.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board of
Fire Commissioners of hew South Wales,
returns showing the total amount of the
premiums received by or due to such
companies in respect of risks against fire
during the year ending Slst December,
1956, within the Sydney Fire District and
every other Fire District in the State
of New South Wales to which the Fire
Brigades Act, 1909-1956, applies; less
any part of such premiums actually paid
by way of reinsurance to any other insur-
ance companies contributing under the
said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1957, subject to a penalty not exceeding
Five pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the under-
signed.
By order of the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales.
W. O. WIGGINS, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
0
General Credits Ltd.
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
Rates ranging from 5|% for two
years up to 7% for five years
and over. Cumulative stock
carrying 6J % compounded on
yearly rests with currencies of
five to fifteen years. Pros-
pectus available at all
branches of The Commercial
Bank of Australia Limited,
Members of Stock Ex-
changes and Offices of
the Company.
Directors : Sir John Newman-
Morris, C.M.G. (Chairman), V. H.
Stanley-Low (Managing), J. M.
Ford, E. W. Cox, John Glen, Eric
Hughes, J. F. Hughes, F. G.
Menzies, V C.8.E., H. F. Clarke.
Bankers for the Issue:
Commercial Bank of
Australia Limited.
General Credits Limited is sponsored by Automobile
Fire and General Insurance Company of Australia Ltd.
This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute
an invitation to subscribe for the debenture stock
mentioned herein.
4951
LYSAGHT
10,000 GAL.
water tanks
3 gas»»
m
•^3455*,
READY TO
ASSEMBLE
TALL
14' 4" diam.
10' 7" high
14'4" Dla. 19'1" Dia.
10'7 W High 6'5" High
£ll7 £93
SQUAT
19' 1" diam.
6 5 high
OTHER LYSAGHT
WATER TANKS
25,000 Gallons—£3ol
50,000 „ -£425
75,000 „ -£533
100,000 -£604
All Prices F.O.R.
Newcastle
PRICES
BASIC UNIT comprising
wall sheets, jointing
material, bolts, nuts and
washers, outlet fitting
and special tools
OPTIONAL EXTRAS
STEEL BASE comprising
base sheets, solder,
sludge outlet fitting and
special tools
OR
CONCRETE BASE by
cement-penetrant method.
All materials supplied
except cement, sand and
aggregate
£39 £5B
£45 £7O
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
Newcastle, or John Lysaght (Australial Pty. Ltd. in
all Capital Cities. T4AX/56
D R B
than Australian earnings; but
perhaps it looks for a more
favorable trading prospect than
that now confronting it before
making a bonus-issue or raising
the div.-rate substantially.
In the event of a bonus-issue,
it is unlikely that existing
reserves, as ' such, would be
capitalised, since the bonus-
shares from such an issue would
be largely subject to taxation.
To avoid taxation a revaluation
or reconstruction would
be required.
If a one-for-two capitalisation
were to come along, and the 10
p.c. div. were maintained, or if
the div. were raised to 15 p.c.,
and the capital remained
stationary, the yield at the
present price of 545. 6d. would
be £5 9s. per cent. So that the
shareholder then would be
counting on still further deferred
benefits.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
IF 1955 was a poor year in the
theatre, 1956 was much
more lively. In the idiom of
another, equally unacccountable,
sphere, tone was firmer and
activity higher. Notwithstanding
all that is said about high
production - costs demanding
“safe” choices with long runs,
first-nights averaged about three
a week throughout last year. A
few of these shows were flops,
but the majority stayed to run
a reasonable course.
This condition is the first
requisite for a healthy theatre
whose function is, or should be,
rather wider than that of pro-
viding the principal managements
with a good steady living and of
concentrating power among a
few producers and casting-
directors. Such potentates will
always have a place —and not
unnecessarily an unworthy one
—in a metropolis, but too
absolute a hegemony leads only
to stultification.
Broadly, this was the state of
affairs a year ago, when manage-
ments. sought—as they still do —
tailor-made successes from
America. To some extent this
importation accounts for the
healthier year for, according to
Brooks Atkinson, 1955 was a
better year on Broadway than
1956 ; and the 1955 successes
were ours a year later. Of these,
there are three: “The Chalk
Garden,” of the familiar Hay-
market all-star pattern; the
recent “Diary of Anne Frank”:
and a play of unique character,
both in conception and acting,
“The Rainmaker.”
France (Anouilh) accounts for
another success, the rumbustious
and astringently salacious farce,
“The Waltz of the Toreadors.”
Two home-products are play-
ing to full houses. Peter
Ustinov’s “Romanoff and Juliet,”
in which he himself appears, ripe
and fulsome, is held to be his
best play. And Dylan Thomas’s
’“Under Milk Wood,” though not
originally intended for the stage,
has been remarkably well
adapted. [A phrase in my review
incurred the wrath of its redoubt-
able sponsor, Henry Sherek, who
came down heavily and cen-
soriously upon this critic for
innocently implying that the
play’s success was due to the
late author’s notoriety. Mr.
Sherek took this (unintended)
affront so much to heart that
he spent one Saturday afternoon
in the box-office, asking people
in turn why they chose the play.
Most of them, he found, had
never heard of Thomas, or of
his irregularities, and came
because they had “heard it was
good” or had seen an excerpt
on television.]
A Writer’s Theatre
By far the most important
event of the-year, both from the
point of view of the potential
playwright and for the incal-
culable promise it holds for the
theatre, was the formation of
the English Stage Society in the
spring. This society enjoys a
moderate subsidy and the
patronage of several distinguished
and influential people in the
arts. Its main object is to
encourage new writers.
The opening plays were in
cautious though, no doubt, wise
contradiction to this admirable
purpose. Angus Wilson’s
adaptation of his novel, “The
Mulberry Bush,” had 'already
been performed elsewhere. So
had the American Arthur
Miller’s “The Crucible.” But this
latter play is several removes
from the so-called “commercial”
theatre, and Mr. Miller, a serious
and conscientious writer, may
be deemed to belong by nature
to this kind of venture.
Other plays not written to
order include Brecht’s “The
Good Woman of Setzuan” and
the famous (or, if you prefer it,
infamous) creation of an English
gentleman notorious for his one-
track mind —Wycherley’s “The
Country Wife.” This is a
romping success.
The season is, however,
remarkable for a “find” in the
person of a young actor-author,
John Osborne. If one per-
formance is any (Eriterion, he is
more naturally gifted with the
pen than with the gesture. His
first play, “Look Back in
Anger,” not only exhibits an
original mind and an inborn
sense of the theatre, but has
actually proved to be the sensa-
tion of the year, bringing him a
measure of fame and a con-
siderable personal following.
Osborne is comparable to Noel
Coward, who, in the ’twenties,
excited the interest of “modern
youth” and shocked its parents.
Those of us of that generation
who are neither easily shocked
nor immature theatrically were
less moved into sympathy with
his insupportable lambasting
“hero.” That may be due to the
stodginess of middle-age. At all
events,. Osborne has fired the
theatre with something it badly
needs argument and con-
troversy. It also needs more
enterprises like the English
Stage Society.
Roving Spotlight
John Clements’s season of
classics, now running out with
“The Way of the World,” has
been estimable and rewarding,
“The Rivals” and “The Seagull”
were incomparable, while “The
Doctor’s Dilemma” was the best
of the other productions.
The centenary of Bernard
Shaw’s birth was not one of the
highlights of the year. Only a
moderate interest attended the
five or so revivals. In fact, “The
Devil’s Disciple,” one of his best,
most actable, plays had to be*
taken off.
Of the Little Theatres, only
the Arts (backed, incidentally, by
the chief of the ticket-agencies)
is financially secure. Autumn
has seen, though, an innovation
in the formation of a “club”
theatre on a very big scale. The
New Watergate Theatre Club has
taken the Comedy Theatre to put
on plays, mainly American,
which won’t pass the censor. An
idea of its magnitude may be
judged from the fact that only
one play, Arthur Miller’s “A
View from the Bridge,” has so
far been introduced but is still
playing “privately” after nearly
four months. The standard of
production is superlative.
That time passes is all too
evident by the Silver Jubilee of
the Crazy Gang, remembered
here as separate acts. Bud
Flanagan is 72, and those
knockabout youngsters, Nervo
and Knox, are nearing 60. That
six men (seven with manager
Chesney Allen) can grow old
inseparably, boisterously and
most profitably is not the least
of the wonders of the stage.
f
Shakspeare in the Shadows
The year at. the Old Vic has
not been its most distinguished.
One remembers the early months
with affection, if not quite with
nostalgia. “Othello,” with
Richard Burton and John
Neville switching the title-role
with that of lago, was interesting.
“Troilus and Cressida” was
rough but novel. And ‘ Romeo
and Juliet” bore evidences of
staleness. Yet this same company
has entranced America. Perhaps
the Vic’s policy of showing
nothing but Shakespeare is in
need of revision.
The later productions have
proved to be inadequate, even by
moderate standards. True, three
of the plays, “Timon of Athens,
“Cymbeline” and “Much Ado
About Nothing,” are not
matic choices for a new, partly-
skilled company. Happily, there
are signs of resurgence in “The
Merchant of Venice.” The
corporate acting is beginning to
strengthen, and the verse-
speaking is more eloquent,
Michael Benthall’s production is
graphic, telling the story clearly,
and has some brilliant touches,
notably in the always-tedious
casket scenes. Robert Help-
mann’s Shylock, hooknosed,
gesticulating and Whitechapel-
German in accent, amounts
rather to caricature (his voice has
all the finesse of a ventriloquist’s
doll), but, no doubt, is admirable
for School Cert. Barbara Jefford,
after a seeming hardness of
visage, is a soft, altogether
desirable Portia-and a stout
enough Balthasar. Of the
supporting players, only David
Dodimead’s Antonio achieves
full integration. Gordon Jacob’s
unobtrusive music and Loudon
Sainthill’s costumes and
Canaletto-like decor stimulate
the play by their quiet beauty
and romance.


Have I you made your WILL?
Incorporated in Victoria ia 1878
The Trustees Executors & Agency
COMPANY LTD.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Limited
Executor and Trustee under your Will, you safeguard your Estate and
secure continuity of service.
The Company, which was incorporated in Victoria in 1878, is empowered
by special Acts of Parliament to operate in Victoria and New South Wales.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —•
★ Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly with
some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges..
k Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £972,657.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G.. D. 5.0.. UC V.O. (Chairnjen); W. Sydney Je.es; gO-fc.
Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C.. V.D.; W. E. M. Campbell.
Wilson MA LL.B. O.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwalladar; Sir Uilie Worihead, K.C.8.,
K.'B.E.. C.M S. b S.'o., E b.; Thomas B. H after; Sydney Jone.; Alan ©. Potter.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Cox Bros. (Aust.), Ltd.
"pEW retailers could have predicted the
difficulties that were to develop
during the year just past. Otherwise, the
merger-activity in 1955 might have been
a deal less fervid than it wa®.
Certainly no co. needed more urgently
than Cox Bros, a breathing-space, free from
the restraints that have fallen on business,
in which to consolidate the vast retail
empire that emerged on the acquisition of
Foy and Gibson, Ltd., in April, 1955.
Outstripping rival offers made by
(jr. J. Coles and Co. and the expansive
Sydney retailer Waltons, Ltd. (now joined
with Sears, Roebuck), Cox paid out
£2,148,750 cash and £1,719,000 of its
own 5s. ord. scrip (a total consideration
of £3,867,750) to secure the £1,719,000
ordinary capital of Foy and Gibson.
The purchase climaxed a series, of post-
war acquisitions (following in the same
pattern of energetic expansion which has
characterised the business from the
outset) through which the co. has
strengthened its representation in every
State except Queensland. Chief among
them were the purchase of the Economic
Stores, Perth, at a cost of £353,500, and
Sydney Snow Pty., Ltd. (Sydney), bought
for approximately £1,500,000.
Considerable success was had by Cox’s
in revitalising the trade of both the Sydney
and Perth concerns, and this was en-
couragement to the co. in its optimism
that a 10 p.c. div. could be maintained
on the increased ord. capital (nearly 86
p.c. bigger), as well as cover the big
interest-bill on the £2-million of 6|- p.c.
debentures issued to finance the cash side
of the Foy purchase. In December,
1955, when rejecting the offer from
Waltons-Sears (of £2,231,400 cash and
£1,239,666 shares) for all of Cox’s ordin-
ary capital the co. reaffirmed the 10 p.c.
div. prospect.
As it has developed, a reduced final
dividend of 2\ p.c. was declared on the
ords., making Cox’s total distribution for
the year 7\ p.c. Together with the pref.
charges it exceeded by £45,417 the £253,842
consolidated group profit claimed after
eliminating the interest of outside share-
holders and leaving out of consideration
the items interlined in the table. These
included the cost (£58,679) of closing the
unprofitable Foy Rundle-street (Adelaide)
store, flood losses in N.S.W., etc. (£7431),
and a proportion of the debenture-issue
expenses (£8270). After deducting the
preference dividends the £253,842 was
equal to 6.3 p.c. on the co.’s ordinary
capital of £3,719,000, compared with the
14.2 p.c. shown in 1955:: —
Cox Bros, and Subsidiaries.t
, Dividends •,
A Pref. B Pref. Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. 7 p.c. ( Ord. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
To revaluation reserve, £5351 .. 675,990
Underwriting exes., £14,584 .. 661,406
Reduction reserves, etc., £12,058.. 649,348
1954- 11,724 8610 10 p.c. =100,000 735,417
Add subsidiaries’ reserves, £390,671.. 1,126,088
To freehold revaluation res., £553,045 1,679,133
Underwriting exes., £26,042.. .. 1,653,091
Flood losses, £2656 1,650,435
1955- 11,724 8610 10 p.c. =181,250 1,839,348
Add subsidiaries’ reserves, £427,964
(net) ... 2,267,312
Loss sale assets, £6447 ' ,.. .. 2,260,865
Flood losses, etc., £7431 .. .. 2,253,434
Debenture-issue exes., £8270 .. .. 2,245,164
Goodwill written-off, £30,000.. ..2,215,164
Cost closing. F. & G. Adelaide store,
£58,679 2,156,485
1956- 11,724 8610 7|p.c.=278,925 2,111,068
* Until 1951, when goodwill was written-out of
accounts, after deducting goodwill ( £42,070). Sub-
sequently subject to intangibles, £142,689 at 31/7/’56.
f After deducting outside shareholders’ interests.
Depreciation was provided for at £108,673
(up £44,089) and taxation at £119,658
(down £96,885). For a year in which tax-
rates were increased the reduced provision
catches the eye. In the balance-sheet,
however, tax provision stands at £171,873.
Excluding Eagley Mills, Ltd., which
was not included in the transaction with
Cox’s, the Foy and Gibson group earned
£183,577 in 1956, an extra £35,475, after
depreciation and tax-provisions of
£24,888 (£26,752) and £95,410 (£85,900),
respectively. Tax amounting to £42,708
overprovided in previous years was
written-back into the p. and 1. account.
The Foy and Gibson business in W.A.,
in which a controlling interest was bought
during the year, fared badly. Conditions
in the State have been pretty slack, and
the co.’s profit for the year was £88,394
compared with £115,687 in 1955.
To meet the position the co. has called
a halt to all major development and is
now concluding only those contracts for
expansion and modernisation of various
stores that were entered into a year ago.
Plans for rebuilding the Foy annexe in
Little Bourke-street (Melbourne) and the
addition of new floors to the Foy Bourke-
street store will be deferred until condi-
tions are more favorable. In W.A. plans
for using the whole of the Economic
Stores building have also jbeen revised.
Both here and at the main Foy store in
Bourke-street structural in-
volving the installation of escalators, lifts,
etc., hampered trading during the year.
Total sales of all members of the group
rose 31 p.c. to £17,400,000, though most
of the increase was due to the inclusion of
the figures of Foy and Gibson (W.A.),
Ltd. On a comparable basis with 1955
the increase in turnovers was 5 p.c., with
the greater part of the gain shown in
the first half of the year.
According to statistics, the downward
movement of retail sales continued in the
first quarter of the current term.
The immense growth of the organisa-
tion is evident from a comparison of
balance-sheets:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— t 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref. . . £290.490 £290,490 £290,490
Ord. .. 1,250,000 3,359,670 8,719,000
Reserves .. 735,417 1,839,348 2,111,068
Outside interest 96,782 819,406 1,812.688
Notes .. .. 350,000 350,000 250,000
Mortgages, etc. 1,329,469 3,523,769 4,418,750
Overdraft .. 979,063 1,701,947 1,892,540
Creditors, etc.. . 298,602 1,433,254 1,453,933
Tax provision. . 111,000 291,707 171,873
Final div. .. 69,522 131,554 140,914
£5,510,345 £13,741,145 £16,261,256
Freeholds .. 1,984,871 6,218,043 7,594,687
Leaseholds .. 51,650 56,171 42,441
Plant .. 462,349 728,412 1,045,712
Shares .. —■ 625,319 3,677
Stocks . . 1,480,744 3,379,953 4,285,343
Debtors . . 1,474,060 2,571,972 2,977,538
Cash, etc. .. 56,671 161,275 169,169
Intangibles ~ . 142,689
£5,510,345 £13,741,145 £16,261,256
The task ahead of Cox’s is a heavy one,
and the sharemarket prices the ss. ords.
at ss. 3d. for a yield of 7 p.c. while the
div. is on p.c. Net asset cover is 7s. Bd.
At 19s. each the 7 p.c. A and B prefs. (net
cover £35 13s. lOd. and £47 4s. 7d.,
respectively) return 7.3 p.c.
Commonwealth Industrial Gases
IN the five years to September 30, 1956,
the 'rapidly expanding C.I.G. group
almost doubled the book-value of its
assets. Shareholders viewing this growth
might have reasonably anticipated a call
for more capital, but, instead, they have
received, in the current term, 1,000,000
f.-p. £1 gift-shares complete with 5 p.c.
div. Handed-out one for every three held,
the bonus-issue followed revaluation of
certain group assets, and takes the parent
co.’s paid capital to £4,000,000, all in
£1 ords.
Divs. have averaged 9.2 p.c. over the
last five years (a one-for-three bonus in
1950 improving the return), and retained
earnings have provided much of the
finance necessary for the continuing
expansion programme. A £1,055,581 par-
issue in 1950 (about two-for-three),
£1,000,000-worth of 4f p.c. and 4f p.c.
notes, and, in the current term, a further
£1,000,000 from two assurance cos. (in
exchange for 6i p.c. notes) have ensured
that adequate funds were available as
needed. .
The group consists of parent-holding-
co., C.I.G. subsidiaries in all States,
E.M.F. Electric Co. Pty. and Quasi-Arc
Pty. The C.I.G. cos. produce and dis-
tribute industrial and medical gases
(oxygen, acetylene, argon, etc.) and handle
welding equipment and appropriate
medical apparatus. Trading in a more
competitive market, E.M.F. and Quasi-
Arc supply electrodes and equipment for
arc- and resistance-welding.
The large British Oxygen Co. (London)
holds a substantial share-interest in the .
parent and since the formation of the
group in 1935 has provided considerable
financial and technical assistance.
Turnover (undisclosed) for the year
ended last September was the highest on
record, but, although the price of some
products was increased late in the term,
portion of the higher wage, material and
operating costs was absorbed by the co.,
with a consequent reduction in net
earnings, which fell by £188,153 to
£671,330 after providing an extra £42,500
for taxation (£572,290) and £474,345 (up
£53,762) for depreciation:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 'Dividends—, serves, serves.*
£ p.c. £ £ £
1952 .. 445,885 8 = 240,000 205,885 668,199
Unexplained addition, £5955 .. 674,154
1953 . . 575,701 8 = 240,000 335,701 1,009,855
Unexplained addition, £13,403 ..1,023,258
Tax refund, £936 •• •• • • 1,024,194
1954 .. 834,535 10 = 300,000 634,535 1,558,729
Tax refund, £lBl 1,558,910
From tax reserve, £13,461 .. .. 1,672,371
Unexplained addition, £21,324 . . 1,593,695
1955 ~ 859,483 10 = 300,000 559,483 2,153,178
Unexplained addition, depreciation re-
serve, £31,767 2,184,945
Capital profit, £2346 . . . . 2,187,291
From tax-reserve, £13,460 .. •- 2,200,751
1956 . . 671,330 10 = 350,000 321,330 2,522,081
* Includes special reserve for depreciation (now
£308,187).
The £671,330 equalled 23.3 p.c. of paid
capital, following 28.6, 27.8, 19.1 and
14.8 p.c. in the four preceding years, and
would cover a 10 p.c. div. on the now
enlarged capital with £271,330 -to spare.
Net earnings do not include an addition
of £31,767 to the special depreciation
reserve or £13,460 transferred from a
taxation reserve.
Last term’s capital-expenditure was in
the vicinity of £1.4 million, and to supple-
ment retained earnings the co, ran-up a
£285,721 overdraft, sold its £274,749
holding of bonds and reduced its cash-
balances by £52,621. Fiked-assets
increased by a net £934,022, new plant
for the manufacture of argon and medical
gases being installed during the term at
the main Alexandria (Sydney) works.
Both oxygen and acetylene are now pro-
duced at Townsville (Q.) and additional
plant is being installed at Newcastle
(N.S.W.). Further development is planned
at Pf. Kembla (N.S.W.), Adelaide, Archer-
field (Q.), and Fishermen’s Bend
(Melbourne).
The recent growth and the financial
strength of the group can be seen from
the next table:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £3,000,000 £3,000,000 £3,000,000
Reserves .. .. 1,558,729 2,153,178 2,522,081
Unsecured notes .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Overdraft .. 285,721
Creditors .. .. 576,653 841,116 886,897
Owing group cos. 178,395 100,318 89,507
Special tax reserve 137,133 123,672 110,212
Tax provision .. 655,419 683,882 734,703
Final div. .. 165,000 165,000 200,000
£7,271,329 £8,067,166 £8,829,121
Freeholds .. .. 1,285,379 1,484,740 1,849,658
Plant .. .. 2,466,822 2,818,842 ‘ 3,387,946
Investments .. 36,624 36,624 37,626
Stocks .. .. 1,710,372 2,253,901 2,289,081
Debtors .. • • 1,058,001 1,144,306 1,263,427
Cash, bonds .. 714,131 328,753 1,383
£7,271,329 £8,067,166 £8,829.121
Despite the heavy outlay on fixed assets
the more-or-less liquid surplus amounted
to a satisfactory £1,246,851, a drop of
£566,121. Increases in both stocks and
debtors reflect the higher levels of pro-
duction and turnover.
Including the bonus-scrip there is a
net tangible cover of 325. 7d. for each
f.-p. £1 share and at 445. there would be
a return of 4.6 p.c. from a 10 p.c. div.
A.R.C. Industries, Ltd.
ATTENTION was drawn to A.R.C.
T*- Industries a short while ago with its
announcement of a merger offer from
the Cyclone Co. of Australia, Ltd., and on
’Change the 10s. ords. went up from
345. 6d. to 51s.
The proposal, which took the shape of
an exchange of one Cyclone 10s. ordinary
share and 20s. cash for each A.R.C. share
• (worth in terms of the market-value at the
time of about 525. to A.R.C. shareholders),
was not accepted, but interest in the scrip
has been sustained by the co.’s intention
to make a one-for-one bonus-issue, to be
financed by revaluing its shareholdings in
subsidiary cos.
A.R.C. has been kept very busy in the
last few years tuming-out agricultural-
fencing and barbed-wire and steel
reinforcing-rods and -fabric for building-
construction work (including all the
reinforcement used in the various stadia
for Melbourne’s Olympics). To meet all
demands it has had to import substantial
quantities of raw material at well above
Australian prices, and, to guard against
possible fluctuations in the value of stocks,
the co. has made big provisions for this
contingence before arriving at a profit.
Last year an extra £50,160 (£106,530) was
set aside for this purpose, £18,166 (up
£8749) provided for depreciation on fixed
assets and £268,017 (up £108,411) for
taxation: —■
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Dividends —\ To Re- Re-
Jne.,Profit. Pref. V- Ord. —— N serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
’51.. 60,161 2,265 10 p.c.= 30,000 27,896 81,707
Profit sale assets, £35 .. .. .. 81,742
’52.. 91,636 5,214 12Jp.c.= 51,260 35,172 116,914
Profit sale assets, £25.. .. .. 116,939
.From stock provision, £28,334 .. 145,273
’63..114,915 5,989 12£p.c.= 61,250 57,676 202,949
Profit sale assets, £979 .. .. 203,928
Intangibles written-off, £7622 .. 196,406
’64..143,193 6,907 13£p.c.= 56,375 79,911 276,317
Profit sale assets, £2938 .. .. 279,255
Intangibles written-off, £7952 .. 271,303
’55,.220,096 8.100 15 p.c.= 61,600 150,496 421,799
Profit sale assets, £4839 .. .. 426,638
Goodwill received, £lO,OOO .. .. 436,638
Unexplained addition, £15,939 .. 452,577
’56..250,777 8,850 15 p.c.= 79,300 162,627 615,204
* £60,000 5 p.c. cum. prefs. participate to 6 p.c.
with ords. £35,000 5 p.c. cum. redeemable prefs.
participate in full with ords.
Net profit of £250,777 (£30,681 more
than was earned the previous year)
covered the dividend on the £60,000 of
5-6 p.c. participating pref. capital and
43.9 p.c. on the fully-participating
prefs. and ords. combined. The
15 p.c. dividend paid in 1955 after
the co. showed a record 49.2 p.c. return
on capital was repeated. Concurrently
with the making of the bonus-issue, it is
intended to allow the 5-6 p.c. prefs. to
participate with the ords. up to 7 p.c.
The co. was formed in 1951 to take
over A.R.C. Efigineering Co. Pty. (Mel-
bourne and Sydney) and its South Aus-
tralian offshoot, Ova weld, Ltd. The old
shareholders got 45,291 £1 5-p.c.-partici-
pating-to-6-p.c. preference shares in
exchange for a like number of fixed 5 p.c.
prefs. and 600,000 10s. ordinaries for
their 200,000 £1 ords., the equivalent of
a one-for-two bonus-issue. Trustees of the
superannuation fund took up 15,000 5 p.c.
cum. redeemable £1 shares which
participate in full with the ords. beyond
that, and the public then subscribed for
another £14,709 of 5-6 p.c. prefs. and
£llO,OOO ords. Capital then stood at.
£485,000 in £410,000 ord. and £75,000
pref. scrip.
Since then another £138,665 has been
put on the register, including £102,500
ord. capital raised at par, one-for-four,
during the 1955 term.
Last year another 32,330 ords. were
issued in connection with the purchase
of Kresst Industries (W.A.) Pty., of
Perth. The co. says it has early plans to


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1,
Australian and Overseas Patent* and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Missing Friends
WOULD THOMAS WILLIAM TAYLOR,
formerly of Whangarei, New Zealand, or
anyone knowing his whereabouts, please
communicate with WEBB, ROSS & ROSS,
Solicitors, Whangarei.
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant super-
vision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street. SYDNEY - - - BU 344 S
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - . MU 4081
You will get more
for your savings—
5'A% FOR 5 YEARS-
when your security is
SYDNEY!
Whether you have £5O, £5OO or £5,000, the City of Sydney Loan is the right invest-
ment for you. Every year, your money will earn 5| per eent—-and you can continue
to gain this steady income for 5, 10 or 20 years.
The City of Sydney Australia’s most valuable area —is your security;
£150,000,000 is the unimproved capital value of the land on which it stands. In
1956 the city’s income exceeded £4,900,000 and the Loan is an authorised trustee
investment in New South Wales.
Your Loan investment, too, will assist Sydney to construct more parking stations,
traffic outlets and other essential public works. Sydney’s future progress demands
them—-and you can help with your money.
Your Loan investment will be quickly arranged at any Commonwealth Trading
Bank, through a stockbroker, or at the Town Hall, Sydney. Act promptly —the
Loan will close next Saturday , 19th January, 1957.
In 5 years your £5OO will grow to £631 's'-
in the
s'/j% CITY OF SYDNEY LOAN
and help to build
• • •
MORE AMENITIES
• • •
MORE ROADS
MORE PARKING STATIONS
■-s-
-&
•I
I £
HP
E
C5L11.57
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
move the business into more
spacious premises and re-equip
it. During the 1956 term, too, a
new subsidiary was formed in
Queensland to take care of
operations in that State. A
factory-building and offices are
expected to be ready by
January. The co. will then have
manufacturing subsidiaries in
every mainland State.
To finance the establishment
of the new branches, make
additions to the Melbourne and
Adelaide factories and carry an
extra £195,747 stock and £96,216
debtors, etc., the co. used another
£62,142 of the bank’s money,
owed trade-creditors £82,766
more and found most of the rest
in the year’s profits:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1955. 1956.
Pref £90,000 £95,000
Ord. .. .. ' 512,600 528,665
Reserves .. .. 421,799 615,204
Overdraft .. 133,727 195,869
Creditors .. 129,381 ' 212,147
Tax provision .. 160,620 269,455
Final divs. .. 36,600 46,125
£1,484,627 £1,962,465
Land, buildings .. 320,376 412,507
Plant, etc. .. 178,740 262,474
Investments .. 2,463 12,473
Stock .. .. 387,638 583,385
Debtors, etc. .. 595,410 691,626
£1,484,627 £1,962,465
When the term ended the outside
debt (overdraft and trade-
creditors) amounted to only
6s. 7d. for every £ of share-
holders’ funds. Working-capital
was a comfortable £551,415.
Last sale of the ords. in
Melbourne was at 445. 6d.
for a return of 3.4 p.c. On
an ex-bonus basis (actual date
to be fixed), the theoretical
price would be 225. At that
figure the return on a 10 p.c.
div. basis would be 4.5 p.c.,
or 5.7 p.c. should the div.
go to 12| p.c. The 5-6 p.c. prefs.,
the only ones listed on ’Change,
last fetched 18s. to return 6.3 p.c.
on the basis of a maximum 7 p.c.
div.
New Guinea Goldfields
HTHE paid capital of this 28-
■*- year-old goldmihing and
trading co. was recently reduced
by £lll,BOB, leaving the
(originally £1) shares with a face-
value of 3s. 9d. and share-
holders in pocket to the extent
of 6d. a share. Altogether, Is. 3d.
a share has been returned to
shareholders, the remaining 15s.
being written-off in 1935 when
the overvalued properties were
written-down by £2,891,728.
As has been the case for some
years, last term’s net earnings
from timber-milling, road-
haulage and the Lae (N ! .G.)
trading-depot exceeded those
from the co.’s underground and
opencut mines.
The mill treated 43,992 tons
of ore (up 2364 tons) averaging
0.3720 z. gold for 14,3120 z. of
gold and 17,9260 z. of silver. In
the previous nine-month term
10,0220 z. of gold and 12,4790 z.
of silver were produced.
The profitable logging and
sawmilling operations resulted
in the sale of 2,540,108 of the
2,888,473 super, ft. of sawn
timber produced, and net earn-
ings benefited from the higher
sales. The annual output
of sawn timber will be reduced
shortly to about 1,337,000 super,
ft., as a result of Government
forest - conservation measures,
and a consequent reduction in
earnings from this section can
be expected to follow.
Net profit for the term
amounted to £139,734, compared
with the previous term’s earnings
at the rate of £64,520 p.a. Part
of the increase was due to an
improved mining profit, £54,112,
which, excluding the £27,917
gold-subsidy received for the
year ended June 30, 1955, was
£13,532 above the adjusted
figure for the previous term.
Earnings equalled 14.7 p.c. on
capital as it then stood or 16.6
p.c. on the present £838,563
total. A 3d. div. was paid in
December, ’55, the capital-return
apparently replacing the 1956
distribution.
Ore-reserves at June 30 last
totalled 147,244 tons (up 20,000
tons), a sharp fall in underground
reserves being more than offset
by an increase in opencut ore.
At last term’s rate of through-
put reserves would be exhausted
by about the end of 1959. At
balance-date cash and debtors
amounted to £199,005 and
creditors to £35,399, while the
capital-repayment made last
November required £lll,BOB.
The restrictions on the co.’s
logging activities will adversely
affect the much-needed earnings
from this source, and, as the
efficient treatment of the now
predominantly opencut ores
involves certain difficulties,
future prospects rest largely on
the development of prospecting
licences and the Koranga joint
workings (a sluicing venture
which last term brought in
£12,700).
The f.-p. 3s. 9d. shares last
sold at 25., to return p.c.
from a 3d. div.
Uranium Holdings, N.L.
npHE two-year-old Uranium
Holdings has abandoned its
search for uranium in the
Northern Territory and disposed
of surplus stores and equipment.
It has been decided to concen-
trate on rutile-prospecting and
-mining in future, and to this
end the co. took-up leases near
Mullumbimby (N.S.W.) last
May.
Mineral Deposits Pty., a sub-
sidiary of National Lead of
America, has been engaged to
test-bore the area and given an
option over 500,000 of the co.’s
ss. shares.
Results of test-boring were not
available for the annual report
(November), but preliminary
investigation “indicated con-
siderable rutile,” and it “appears”
that at the end of the tests “the
installation of a spiral plant will
be justified.” x
At the end of last term (Oct.
31) the co. had £63,954 in
current assets, £13,063 in -fixed
assets and liabilities of only £622.
The only income to date has
been from investments.
Paid capital, in ss. shares paid
to 2s. 6d., amounts to £162,500,
lhe scri P last sellin § at 7d -
1
Western Titanium, N.L.
QINCE December 27 last,
Western Titanium’s ilmenite-
separation plant has operated on
a 24-hours-a-day basis. Twelve of
the 24 magnetic separators on
order from the United Kingdom
have now been installed, giving
tbe plant a present capacity of
3000 tons of ilmenite concen-
trates a month. It is expected
that the plant will be operating
at full capacity before the end
of March.
All ilmenite which the directors
consider can be prudently
committed has been sold ahead
at “satisfactory” prices.
Suggestions that the cheaper
(£l2 15s. a ton) and more
abundant ilmenite may replace
rutile (£llO a ton) as a main
source of titaniuiryhave increased
interest in Australian production,
but it must be remembered that
Australian requirements can be
easily met, and freight-rates are
an important factor in the export,
at competitive prices, of the
relatively low-priced product,
A final call of 2s. 6d. per ss.
share last August gave Western
Titanium a paid capital of
£600,000. Aberfoyle Tin, N.L.,
and Commonwealth Mining
Investments (Aust.), Ltd., are
large shareholders. Buyers
recently offered 7s. Bd. for the
f.-p. shares.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
More hot, sunny weather for Sydney
this week, and a fine show of suntans on
the beaches. This time last year most
people were at best dusty-pink. In some
cases they were shockingrpink. This year
'the color-range is from bamboo to ebony,
with copper and mahogany very popular.
Indeed, a stranger viewing the Sydney
surf-crowds at present might well wonder
what had happened to the White Australia
policy.
* ☆ ☆
The opening of the Mozart ' Opera
Season at the Elizabethan Theatre on
Saturday night really got a glittering, gala
effect. Everyone was in evening-dress,
frocks sweeping the ground and white
gloves swathing the elbow; white ties,
decorations ; and quite a few tiaras.
Governor-General Sir William Slim,
and Lady Slim were present, Lady Slim
looking very gracious in navy taffeta with
diamond tiara and necklace. With the
vice-regal party were Sir John and Lady
Tivey, Sir Norman and Lady Gregg,
Colonel and Mrs. Phillip Parbury (who
had been entertained at dinner at Admir-
alty House before coming on to the
opera). Also present were Lord Carring-
ton (High Commissioner for the U.K.)
and Lady who had come
specially from Canberra. Lady Carring-
ton, youthful and charming, wore a
straight, simple sheath-gown of peacock-
blue chiffon.
The gala was in aid of the Hungarian
Relief Fund, and groups of young people
in colorful Hungarian national-costume
formed a guard on the staircase for the
guests-of-honor. The president of the
fund, Mr. C. R. McKerihan, was present
with Mrs. McKerihan, who wore a
classically-draped dress of white chiffon.
During the interval, when Sir William
and Lady Slim received members of the
cast in one of the boxes, the cloaks and
costumes of the singers added another
colorful touch to a glittering scene. »
☆ ☆ ☆
Rummages, fiestas, midsummer clear-
ances, etc., are in full swing now. They
are really the old-fashioned sale renamed,
and they create the same sort of shopping
dementia. You go in, after reading the
advertisement, to buy “a matador
at a wonderful price,” only to find
that Spanish bullfighters are not included
in the offer. A kit for making 30 artificial
fingernails starts you wondering where
you can get a couple more pairs of hands.
You read about 400 “opera-top” vests for
sale, and wonder whether they are printed
with the score, wired for sound, or merely
designed to fit opera-singers. You hear
that “Heady hats are clearing” and
realise hatty heads must be doing so
also. “Midsummer clearance”? Mid-
summer madness!
☆ ☆ ☆
Regarding sales. Will this refusal of
some National Service trainees to wear
the kilt mean that the Army will become
overstocked and that the disposal-stores
will have some bargains in that line
before long? In which" case, will the
Scottish thrift or the Scottish indignation
get the upper hand?
☆ ☆ ☆
On Friday, evening Mrs. Humbert
Pugliese gave a delightful party for about
60 guests at her harborside home at
Vaucluse. The guests-of-honor were Mr.
and Mrs. S. K. Wong, with their daughter
Mrs. William Chen. Mr. Wong, who is
with the Bank of East Asia in Shanghai,
is on his way home with Mrs. Wong
from a visit to the U.S., where he has
had an intricate eye-operation at the
Mayo Clinic. The evening was whiled
away with music (supplied by strolling
musicians), dancing, television, and
chatter on the patio and sundeck over-
looking the garden (lit with fairylights)
and the waters of Vaucluse Bay.
* ☆ *
The results of the Leaving Certificate
were published during the week, and
formed the main topic of conversation
in many a home. What an odd name
“Leaving Certificate” is! It is really a
Starting Certificate—starting life and
starting more study. The emphasis sbems
wrong. Of course the students are leaving
school, but they certainly do not need a
certificate these days to do so. Perhaps
someone should form a society to reform
the names of these certificates, though
possibly it isn’t wise to remark that in
one s own day the name was “Senior” —
it makes one seem so senior.
Joan Tait, who is the only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. J. A. B. Tait, of Vaucluse,
chose the New Year’s Eve party at her
parents’ home to announce her engage-
ment to Donald Enderby, younger son of
Mr. and Mrs. A. C. Enderby, of Bexley
North. Joan is wearing a lovely solitaire-
diamonel ring. Her photo by Norton
Trevaire.
Country districts were well-represented
at the wedding of Suzanne Woods and
Murray Cole during the Week, as Suzanne
is the younger daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Ken Woods, of Epsom, Moree, while
Murray, elder son of the W. A. Coles,
also comes from Moree. Matron-of-
honor Mrs. Charles Tomlinson, the
bride’s sister, came from her home in
Roma (Q.) for the wedding, at which the
bride’s other attendants were Mrs. John
Cooper, Mrs. Alan Houston (Mungindi)
and Mary Kirkby (Moree). They wore
pale-grey taffeta dresses with tangerine
bustle-bows which matched their gladioli-
bouquets. The bride’s dress was white
Swiss-silk sprinkled with appliqued
organdie roses, and her fingertip-
veil was caught at the back of
her head. Attending the bride-
groom were John Cheadle, lan Cur-
lewis, Michael Matthews (Orange) and
Charles Tomlinson (Roma). After the
wedding at St. Mark’s, Darling Point, a
reception for 150 guests was given by the
bride’s parents at the Pickwick Club.
The honeymoon is being spent in New
Zealand.
V # V
Another pretty wedding at St. Mark’s
was that of Suzanna Rhoades to Norris
Dunn on Friday. Suzanna, ihe only
daughter of Captain and Mrs. Rodney
Rhoades, of Vaucluse, wore a long-
sleeved dress of white Chantilly-lace and
tulle. Her bridesmaids, Elizabeth Dunn
and Margaret Woods, wore ballerina-
length frocks of white chiffon. The
bridegroom is the only son of Mr. and
Mrs. T. H. Dunn, of Killara. After
the wedding a reception was held at the
Royal Sydney Golf Club, Rose Bay.
☆ ☆ ☆
Feeling as if she had wandered into one
of those luxury-settings by Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer, this letter fluttered
round the cocktail-party of the week on
the Mariposa in a dream of travel to far-
.away places with strange-sounding
names (such as Honolulu). The party
was given by the Harry A. Johnsons for
the Charles E. Browns, who have been
their house-guests for a month and are
now returning to Los Angeles. Mr. and
Mrs. Brown have many friends in Sydney,
as, they were resident here for 14 years
before the war, and the 200 guests repre-
sented a cross-section of the Australian
and American community in Sydney.
There were trans-Pacific drinks to be
drunk (Bourbon -on - the - rocks, for
instance), trans-Pacific food (tomales in
little round containers), trans-Pacific hats
(Mrs. Johnson’s, of iridescent-straw, was
brought back after her latest trip to
America) and trans-Pacific hospitality.
# V V
All this week drama-enthusiasts will be
studying every phase of theatre-work at
the Arts Council’s one-week Summer
Drama School, which is being held at the
Wallace Theatre, University of Sydney.
Geoffrey Thomas is the schoof-director,
and 85 students have enrolled. Speakers
will include John Sumner, Robert
Quentin, Dorothy Helmrich, Robin Love-
joy, Dorothy Dunckley, Leila Blake,
Denis Grafton and Alec Brown. The
A.B.C.’s director of drama and features,
Neil Hutchison, will speak at the final
session on Saturday, the 19th, on
“Acting for Radio and Television” ; this
session will be open to the public,
☆ ☆ ☆
Appearances on television have been
some of the excitements for the children
of the Far West Children’s Health
Scheme. Twenty Drummond Home
patients and four camp children were
invited to the studios of A.T.N. and
A.8.N., the national channel did an
actuality telecast from the Drummond
Home itself on New Year’s Day, All
the children who appeared behaved ex-
tremely well, speaking bravely into the
microphone in spite of nervousness. At
the conclusion of the session the Lord
Mayor of'Sydney, Aid. H. S. Jensen,
paid a special visit to greet the children.
As a result of one of the telecasts the
Wahroonga branch of the International
Lions Club is presenting one of the latest
TV sets to the Drummond Home.
☆ ☆ ☆
Left Sydney during the week for Mel-
bourne Eric Wahlquist and family. The
Wahlquists were very well known in
Sydney’s theatrical circles as Eric was
for 11 years business manager for J. C.
Williamson here. He takes up a top
executive job in the southern capital,
which is really his home-town. Sydney
will miss both Eric and Win and wish
them every success.
MELBOURNE
Sir Norman Martin, chairman of the
Australia Day Council, thinks Australians
are too nonchalant about the celebration
of their National Day; he would like
to see flags on every building and on every
car on January 26. Of this year’s celebra-
tions the most spectacular will be at
Frankston, where there will be four days
of festivities. Heidelberg will have a car-
nival, and most country towns will have
celebrations. On Friday, January 25,
there will be a luncheon at the Royale
Ballroom, at which Prime Minister
Menzies and U.K. High Commissioner
Lord Carrington will speak. Next day at
10 a.m. the Lord Mayor (Sir Frank
Selleck) will raise the flag, and there will
be a parade by a military detachment of
the Royal Melbourne Regiment and the
City of Melbourne regimental band. At
11.30 a.m. the Australian Natives Asso-
ciation will entertain members of the Con-
sular Corps.
Pretty Barbara Britton, from East
Brighton . has joined Sam Snider’s “Water
Follies,” which will have its gala premiere
at Kooyong on January 31. Barbara,
who won her bronze-medallion for
swimming and life-saving when she was
13, will be well remembered as a gold-
medallist life-skater who went overseas
and joined the “Holiday On Ice” com-
pany for a tour of Europe. Photo by
Harry Jay.
One of the joys of 1957 will be the
visit of prima ballerina Margot Fonteyn,
who will appear with the Borovansky
Ballet. The wife of Roberto Arias,
Panamanian Ambassador to Britain,
Dame Margot made her debut at Sadler’s
Wells in “Casse-Noisette” when she
was 14. Born Peggy Hookham, she began
dancing-lessons before she was four. A
year later she passed her first R.A.D.
examination. She was “discovered” by
the famous Ninette de Valois, director of
the Sadler’s Wells Ballet
U.S. Consul Joseph E. Wiedenmayer
and his wife, who with their small son
return next month to the U.S., were gues'ts-
of-honor at a farewell dinner-party given
by U.S. Naval Attache Capt. J. A. Gage
at the Ritz, after which the 18 guests
went on to see “Can Can.” Also being
tarewelled at the party were Netherlands
Naval Attache, Captain A. H. W. Von
Freytag Von Drabbe and his wife (they
return to their homeland shortly) and Mr.
and Mrs. Stanley Lehman, who return
to New York on January. 20.
* ☆ ☆
Tomorrow, Thursday the 17th, Juliet
Black and Clive McFarlane will be
married at St. John’s, Toorak. Juliet, who
is the daughter of Mr. H. S. Black, of
Toorak, will be attended by Sally Anne
Blair, Margaret Wallace, Zenia Barr-Smith
and the bridegroom’s sister Joanna.
Clive is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Clive
McFarlane, of Pleasant Park, Penola
(S.A.). Dick Law-Smith will be best map,
and groomsmen will be Richard Kirby,
John McFarlane and the bride’s brother
Bill. Reception will be held at Menzies’.
☆ ☆ ☆
The engagement of Barbara Denise,
only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. V. Hay-
don, of Bonbeach, and Peter Wilson,
elder son of Air-Commodore and Mrs.
F. N. Wright, of Aspendale, was
announced at a buffet-dinner 1 given by
Air-Commodore and Mrs. Wright at their
home on the day Peter celebrated his 21st
birthday. Barbara is with the Chelsea
City Council, and Peter is doing an
industrial-chemistry course. The ring is
a solitaire-diamond with diamond-
shoulders.
☆ ☆ ☆ t
The many friends they have made in
this city will miss former Chinese Consul
T. W. Liu and his charming wife. The
new Consul,,Mr. K. Y. Leung, was host
at a party at which Mr. and Madame Liu
were guests-of-honor, and at which they
said goodbye to many of their friends
before sailing for the U.S., where Mr. Liu
will study foreign affairs before taking up
a new appointment. Their son Alex and
his bride (the former Barbara Barrett)
will go to Oregon, where Alex will study
architecture. Among the guests at the
party were Sir Wilfrid and Lady Kent
Hughes, Sir Albert and Lady Coates, Mr.
and Mrs. A. T. Smithers, Professor
Maurice Belz and his wife Dr. Marjorie
Belz, U.S. Consul J. Wiedenmayer and his
wife, Dr. Arnold Richardson and Mrs.
Richardson, and Mrs. T. J. Ryan.
☆ ☆ ☆
A novel engagement-party was given
by Mr. and Mrs. G. W. Raws for their
daughter Anne Mary and her fiance
David Stowe Asche. It was held in the
woolshed at Point Leo, their Merricks
property, and some of the 180 guests came
as characters from the “Waltzing Matilda”
verses.
The guest-of-honor wore a full skirt
and blouse of red-and-white candy-striped
cotton. At the party was the grandmother
df Anne’s fiance, Mrs. D. S. Adam, who
is a second-cousin of “Banjo” Paterson.
The fiance’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. H. C.
J. Asche, of Caulfield, were also there.
Other guests included the Stanley Burstons
and Geraldine Burston, Mr. and Mrs.
Ainsley Walker, Mr. and Mrs. James
Barnaby, Heather MacKeddie and
Jennifer Wilson.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the V.A.T.C. meeting at Caulfield
the. wife of the club’s chairman, Mrs.
Norman Robinson, and the deputy-
chairman’s wife, Mrs. Kenneth McLean,
gave a luncheon before the first race for
presswomen. The weather was ideal fpr
summer silks and linens and flower-
trimmed hats. Mrs. Robinson chose a
white silk-shantung frock scattered with
pink roses and a tiny white straw hat
which had a rose-pink crown. A silk
frock patterned in muted floral tones and
a tiny hat of beige straw finished with
silk roses in the same shade were the
choice of Mrs. McLean.
Also among the guests Were Lady
Burston, whose black-spotted white silk
frock was worn with a white crinoline-
hat finished with one large white rose ;
Lady Lienhop, whose white silk frock
patterned in grey was topped with a
coral-pink hat; Lady Clarke, in. blue
polished-cotton frock and shell-pink
mushroom hat; her sister, Mrs. Fred
Fair, wearing pink cottons with a match-
ing straw hat draped with pink chiffon ;
Mrs. A. J. Moir, whose choice was an
apple-green linen-tweed suit and matching
straw platter-hat finished with a spray of
apple-blossom ; Mrs. Lance Drummond,
whose brown linen frock was patterned
in a white lattice-design ; and Mrs. Robert
Hunter, whose black-spotted white cotton
frock was worn with a tiny white straw
hat.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
( Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.O., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for.... months’ subscription to The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to—
NAME •••
address
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £ 1 /4/6.
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/18/8 Foreign .... £3/«/*
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Ktt? mom SAFE!
/ufUtu
SANDERS/
Correspondence, invoice*.
statement*. etc-, ln the
"Sander# - can be securely Prlees Md
bound and converted info a ther Information
perfect book of reference at upon application
the end of each month —or
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
fiuribmttnt Ag€*U—
MELBOURNE .* ,
ADELAIDE
PERTH
l
Norman Hroi. Pty. Ltd.
Vardon Price Ltd.
Docket Booh On. tAnal)
~ c
Missing Beneficiary
MR. HOWARD PITT
WILL the Widow or children of HOWARD
PITT (the brother of ELEANOR ELIZA-
BETH PITT, of Redditch, Worcester-
shire, England), bom on the 2nd April,
1885, and who emigrated to Australia
somewhere about 1900, and who is be-
lieved to have died 17 or more years ago
in Australia, or any person having know-
ledge of same, please communicate with
WHITELEY & PICKERING, Solicitors,
Redditch, Worcestershire, England?
Twt&lj’d
The connoisseur's word
for smooth, mellow
perfection
'll,
mk
m
ah
w;
m
mm
m
j|ggg
w
O SP/TAb
•For
TOLLEY'S
SPECIAL
BRANDY
HOSPITAL
FAMOUS FOR 90 YEARS
T*T.47.l*
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“The Marriage of Figaro”
The 170-year-old opera, the
oldest in the regular repertoire,
the composer’s first masterpiece
and the first fruit of his rich
collaboration with librettist
Lorenzo Da Ponte, opened the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust’s
Mozart season on Saturday
night, with the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra under Joseph Post.
This opera is won or lost
primarily on the projection of
the comedy. It is, after all, an
opera buffa, and the buffoonery
must be played to the limit. No
matter how good the singing, the
opera will flop unless the singers
are skilled in comic-acting.
The resounding artistic success
of the production by Dennis
Arundell owed much to the
timing, spontaneity and ebulli-
ence of the comic by-play.
Though no great voice emerged,
the singing was sound through-
out, and occasionally . lit by
flashes of true Mozartian
delicacy.
John Shaw, as the libertine,
Count Almaviva, dominated
every scene he was in. He
backed-up a commanding
presence with singing of power,
accuracy and resonance, and his
enunciation was admirably clear.
Indeed, this was a feature of
almost everybody’s singing—an
all-important factor with a
libretto of wit and punch in an
excellent translation.
John Cameron’s Figaro was
always animated, and he held a
w'ell-judged balance between
cheerfulness and determination
to frustrate the designs against
his fiancee, Susanna, by his
amorous toaster. He sang
stylishly, but with restricted
volume. t .
Ereach Riley came to light
with a rich piece of characterisa-
tion as the time-serving music-
master Basilio. Another good
portrayal was that of Wilma
Whitney as waspish housekeeper
Marcellina, with Keith Neilson,
as Dr. Bartolo, her employer and
paramour, giving good support.
Valda Bagnall was a teasingly
coquettish Susanna, who wound
her way through the maze of
intrigue with facile assurance,
and who sang her “Deh Vieni,
the loveliest of all bridal-songs,
with beautiful tone and control.
Nita Maugham’s Countess had
the right touch of bitterness
tempered with sadness and some
hope that her graceless lord
might eventually reform; she
sang the two great arias, “Porgi
Amor” and “Dove Sono,” in
very good voice.
Bettina Benfield’s Cherubino
was slightly short on brashness,
but her singing of the “Non So
Piu” and the immortal “Voi, Che
Sapete” was simple, direct and
never forced.
The orchestra was alive to the
peculiar needs of this score. For
instance, the fiddles are called
upon to reflect much of the
emotional stress in the,recitative
that leads up to the Countess’s
plaintive “Dove Sono”; the
upper strings have to express all
the venom of the exchanges
between Marcellina and Susanna
over the affections of Figaro
while the two principals try to
be polite to each other; in the
“Letter Duet” they scratch out
the continuous writing while the
Countess and Susanna discuss the
epistle’s contents; and they
supply the mock-military-march
background to Figaro’s spirited
“Non Piu Andrai” aria. Here,
and elsewhere, the orchestra did
sterling work ; and Joseph Post,
as is usual, with him, called
heavily on his pianissimos to give
the singers every chance to be
heard.
Settings by Kenneth Rowell
combined simplicity with taste,
except in regard to the two
modernist-art pieces, which
struck a jarring note in the
darkened garden of the fourth
act. Dressing by the same artist
was well up to standard.
“lolanthe”
Any politician who happened
to be at the Empire, Sydney, for
opening-night of the Firms
presentation of the delightfully
daft Gilsullivan satire on politics
must have turned green at the
ease with which lolanthe s son
Strephon gained election to
Parliament simply by having a
Fairy Queen wave a wand and
thus eliminate pre-selection,
hustings-hoarseness and ballot-
box “bends”; and he may have
been so absorbed at the fascina-
tion of this idea that he could
have missed : —as no elector could
possibly have done —the candor
with which the Earls Tolloller
and Mountararat spoke of their
paucity of and of
their fellow-legislators who,
during the war, “did nothing in
partic-u-lar and did it very well. ’
All this irreverent poking-of-
fun at a Parliamentary body
whose members owe their elec-
tion purely to the cerulean tint
in their blood is said to have so
angered Queen Victoria that she
withheld from Gilbert-the knight-
hood she willingly conferred on
his collaborator, though the
librettist eventually received the
accolade from her son.
In dressing, in scenery—that
of the sylvan dell in the first act,
with the placid stream in the
background, was an artistic gem
—and in its chorus-work the
production reached high
standard. The March of the
Peers was capitally done, with
just the right flavor of mock-
dignity.
In individual performance it
was Grahame Clifford’s night.
As the amorous Lord Chancellor,
so “highly susceptible,” he was
an irresistibly comic figure,
doubled up, almost all face and
feet. His diction elsewhere un-
exceptionable, he failed, however,
to get the words across clearly
in the longest and toughest of all
Gilbert’s > patter-numbers: the
“Nightmare” song.
This lack of clear enunciation
—of paramount importance in
G, and S. —plagued most of the
principals, least in the case of
Muriel Brunskill, who, a
commanding presence as the
Fairy Queen, gave “O Foolish
Fey” good tongue; Richard
Watson, who, as the sentry, sang
his “When All Night Long”, very
well; and Eric Thornton, whose
Mountararat was notable for a
sparklingly forthright rendering
of “When Britain Really Ruled
the Waves.” Jane Martin’s
lolanthe had graceful charm,
and Roslyn Dunbar’s Phyllis was
adequate. Kevin Foots, as
Strephon, had a posturing stiff-
ness to offset his easy singing.
4*4 <4 *
In Search of an Australian
Theatre
Having been invited by Hsu
Kuang-hsiao, leader of the
Chinese Classical Theatre, to
send an Australian equivalent
to China, Garnet Carroll, of the
Melbourne Princess, has gone in
search of the animal in question.
He won’t find it in Melbourne.
Shakspearian drama is classical
enough, but it is not Australian.
The Borovansky ballet, which
has been suggested, would
certainly put up a fine per-
formance, but could hardly be
called classical Australian
dancing, and although it has
produced one or two ballets with
Australian motifs, the way they
were done followed the Russian
model.
Another suggestion is that a
Tivoli troupe should be included.
There has ’ been no typically
Australian comedian on the
local boards for a long time,
and I doubt if the Chinese would
be very impressed by the Tivoli
acrobats —their own tumblers
are just as good, and some are
better.
It would be rather absurd to
send an Australians opera-
company which could only sing
Wagner, Verdi and Donizetti,
and would have to apologise for
the absence of Australian opera.
As good performances of Shaw’s
plays have been done in Sydney
and Melbourne as have been
done anywhere in the world, but
Shaw productions would hardly
fulfil the definition of “Australian
classic.” Doris Fitton might
take her company across the
Yellow Sea and produce
O’Neill’s “Strange Interlude” or
repeat some other of her wonder-
ful productions of contemporary
drama, but these again could
hardly be classed as classical
Australian, any more than Italian
opera.
It seems that if Mr. Carroll is
to fulfil the definition he will be
left with the ritual dances of the
a bos. Aimed at increasing the
food-supply by sympathetic
magic, they were undoubtedly the
beginnings of Australian drama,
just as the miracle- and morality-
plays were the beginnings of
English drama. The morality-
plays were just as primitive and
uncomplex as the Chinese
classical theatre until Shakspeare
came along and put his rich
experience and understanding
into a form which has persisted
down the centuries.
There doesn’t seem to have
been a Chinese Shakspeare to
put life and character into the
Chinese classical theatre and
replace symbols with human-
beings, so the Chinese theatre
remains aesthetically on a simple
level, not much above a travel-
ling circus. The Australian
corroboree is in much the same
stage of development, and so
are the abo. myths and*- folktales
—but they could probably be
made theatrically effective by a
producer with imagination.
The aboriginal ballet which
was put on at Mr. Carroll’s
theatre during the Moomba
Festival, and which was wonder-
fully well acted by North
Queensland abos., was remark-
ably effective. It would hardly
make a whole evening’s entertain-
ment, however, so perhaps .a
rodeo could be added. But
where else Mr. Carroll is to look
for characteristically Australian
theatre I really don’t know.
Our supreme products are,
of course, our singers, so why
not send some of them, too?
M.G.S.
Talkies
“Written - on the Wind”
(Sydney State): Surface gloss, a
brittle sophistication, reasonably
well-drawn characters and a
general acting-competence—with
Dorothy Malone’s overdrawn
portrait of the promiscuous,
spoiled daughter of an oil-king
the exception —mark this pro-
duction by Universal of a story
which, despite a too-long
insistence on all-round frustra-
tion, hangs together well enough.
The tycoon’s weak son (Robert
Stack) returns to his old love
Booze when he wrongly suspects
that his wife (Lauren Bacall) is
playing around with his old
boyhood friend (Rock Hudson),
a noble fellow who really
worships her from afar and
suffers in strong silence, and who
in turn is the object of the
tycoon’s darter’s blatantly-
offered but scorned affection.
The amorous quadrangle is
changed to a triangle by a well-
placed bullet, and there is a
denouement which owes no
little to a none-too-convincing
volte-face of character by the
promiscuous one. Best work
comes from Robert Keith as the
black-gold baron who is
embittered at having no worth-
while progeny to which to pass
on his industrial empire.
“I Had Seven Daughters”
(Sydney Vogue): Seven pretty
chorus-girls, stranded in a small
town, persuade the wealthy
Count Maurice Chevalier that
they are his daughters, the
results of a series of love-affairs
he had in his youth. It doesn’t
take him long (a matter of refer-
ring to an admirably-kept filing-
system) to realise the truth, and
from there on Chevalier, girls and
audience have a whacking-good
time.


SLAPSTICK.
By JACK
LUSBY
THE walk from the factory.
Red pulled his hat down
and collar up against the
cold gusty slash of rain.
Ahead the neon entrails of the
Cross splattered bright - blue,
green and bloody on a wheel-
spoke splay of streets. Cabs
swarmed like bees, bug-eyed,
winged with spray.
Barely four-o’clock and nearly
dark. A girl stooped peeling off
her stockings, shoulder against
an awning-post. She shook a
dark tumble of hair and sloshed
out halfway over the street, stood
huddled while headlights swept
by like tracer, then vanished with
a white, wet flash of legs.
An easy drone of voices came
through the swingdoors of a pub.
Red pushed in and leaned on a
bare stretch of bar-counter.
Looked around. Force of habit.
No one there he knew. Been
in Sydney just a month. First
time in this rubbity. Fine day
he’d have walked on to the one
near home. Home ! Microflat at
the back in Victoria-street.
“Schooner,” he said. Different
from the rangy old bungalow in
Brisbane. High on stilts and
veranda all round. Pawpaws and
frangi.
“Thanks.” Red raked in the
remains of his two-bob, dropped
the beer three inches in the glass,
lit a smoke. A nuggety type came
in and leaned alongside. Wind-
breaker jacket. Cheerful.
“How’re you puttin’ it in,
kid?” to the barmaid.
“O.K. Sick o’ bein’ on me
feet. Beer?”
“Thanks,” He turned to Red.
“Suits me, bein’ on me feet for
a bit. Been sittin’ on it all day.”
“Cab?”
“Yeah. Get caught in it?”
“Just drying out,” Red said.
He felt sympathy for the girl.
Been on his own feet all day,
by a lathe turning out fridge-
bits. Every day for a month now.
Stacking enough away to buy a
truck, get set and bring Mollie
and the kids down. A slow way
of doing it. Slow but safe.
He put some more change
down. The girl swept the
schooner away and bent her head
over the taps. Red drank this
one slowly, enjoying the smoky
warmth of the bar and the smell
of wet clothes steaming off near
the heaters.
Out in the street again he
walked to the garish intersection,
bunnied across through the
traffic, went half a block along
darker Victoria-street and turned
out of the rain into the dim-lit
passageway of the residential.
Unlocked his door and went in,
flicking the light-switch.
"O ED froze in the act of
spinning his hat at the bed.
He stared at the small bedside-
table, then strode across the
room and looked down at the
gun. Picked »it up and moved
quickly to the gas-ring kitchen-
ette.
Then a leap to the foot of the
bed, dropping on all fours to
look under it. Window locked.
Clothes-cupboard? No. No one
here. Just the gun. Whew! Red
took the clip out, then replaced
it Had a good sniff at the gun
and laid it back on the table.
Sat down on the bed and stared
at the thing, running a strong,
freckled hand through his hair.
How the hell did you get here?
A .45, and two rounds gone,
recently. Very recently!
Red got to his feet and chucked
the gun under some shirts in
a drawer. Shut the drawer.
He peeled off his jacket and
washed at a bowl in a corner
of the room. Pulled on a
raincoat, picked up his hat
and went out again, thinking
hard about the gun in his room.
Just one of those King’s Cross
things? Coincidence? Or some-
thing else. Something about
Johnnie. Easy now ; don’t panic
if you don’t have to. Eat on it.
He sat in a cubicle near the
street door breathing the soupy
steam from Karl’s kitchen.
“Medium steak, Karl.”
“Medium steak? Yess!”
Red spread a late edition and
skipped through the news, cheese-
cake and sport, doodled with a
teaspoon on the stop-press blank.
He washed the steak down with
coffee.
“It’s on the table, Karl.”
“Danke! ” from the nether
regions.
Red turned back into Victoria-
street and wpnt no further. Two
police-cars were disgorging men.
Most of them crossed the pave-
ment and went into Red’s
residential. Whew! We do panic
after all! And thoroughly!
He made his way through the
jostling chock-a-block whirl of
the Cross and moved quickly
down William-street toward the
city. In the first pawnshop he
stripped off his raincoat.
“Lend me a quid on this?
' “Gawd, break it down! Look
at it —collar’s worn”
“Fifteen-bob.”
“0.K.,'0.K.”— —
In the cluttered window of
another hockery hung a good-
looking coat, fawn, but if you
turned it inside out it still looked
good and was navy-blue. Red
had seen it there a few days
earlier. He walked out wearing
it blue, and carrying a leather
satchel. The rain had steadied
to a drizzle, the street was still
awash with color*. Empty cabs
sped cityward to refill with
suburban fares. He stopped one.
“Wypyard, driver.”
“Suits me, pal.”
• Red joined the stream of
homing humanity flowing into
the underground station, edged
aside to a chemist’s counter and
bought shaving - gear and
scissors. Passing through a
“Men” doorway he claimed a
washbowl and mirror and
shaved. He’d grown rather fond
of the neat red moustache, but
the shave was thorough. Red in
the mirror grinned briefly at Red
on the tiled floor. Young and
innocent now, eh! Outside he
angled through the hurrying herd
surging at the turnstiles and
found a phone-box.
“Pan-Australasian? Bookings,
please.”
“Bookings.”
“Is there a plane to Adelaide
this evening?”
“Yes, sir Flight 401 to
Adelaide departs six-fifteen, in
forty-minutes’ time.”
“Cutting it a bit fine, eh?
Look, I’ll drive straight out to
the drome. Would you book
me a seat? I’ll fix if there.
Harold McGeraghty.”
“That will be all right, Mr.
McGeraghty.”
Red snared a cab in the street
and twenty minutes later saw the
glow of the drome’s marker-
lights. His ticket was at the
desk in the passenger-lounge.
He paid for it, bought a late
paper and sat in an unobtrusive
comer. A big hole in the
savings, but better than jail or a
hole in the head. Hell, was all
this really Johnnie again? Was
it dreamland or dinkum! No
connection at all, when you
stopped to think. No connection
except the fear that had sent hint
bolting before like a bunny from
a bushfire. And one thing was
sure. Police and a used .45 made
too rich a mixture. For Red it
shrank Sydney to one-horse
size. He lowered his face over
the paper.
KING’S CROSS KILLING
Tobacconist Shot Dead.
Gunman Gets £B5O.
An armed man this afternoon shot
and killed a tobacconist in Bayswater-
road, King’s Cross, and escaped with
£B5O. The dead man was Joseph
Wellman Stokes, 0f....
“Passengers on Flight 401 to
Adelaide, will you please board
the aircraft”
A lush female voice on the
loudspeakers. Red heard her the
second time. There was a block
of ice in his stomach, he felt
loose and uncoordinated. He
moved like a puppet into the
file of people leaving the lounge.
Across the bleak stretch of
tarmac, up the steps, bright
smile and blonde hair under a
fore-and-aft cap. “Seat 21, sir.”
I
TT was a window-seat about
halfway back and no one sat
beside him. The plane taxied
snailpace for a hundred miles
and tiie pilots’ cockpit-check took
a fortnight.
Red took his first full breath
when the four great motors
joined in dull thunder and the
flarepath raced, blurred and fell
away. A vast, canyoned prairie
of lights spun slowly below and
slid from sight. Red was sweat-
ing and as he released the belt
his hands shook. Out of practice
at being on the run! Safe for
about three hours.
Then what? Picked-up on
arrival? Dragnet that far out?
Adelaide didn’t seem half far
enough. But Mollies letters
back in the flat —they’d make it
seem he’d head for Brisbane.
Unless the police thought in
opposites as Red had.
He was worried about his red
hair. Perhaps even keeping his
hat on to cover it, in the plane,
was making him conspicuous.
And why did he have to run
again? What the hell was he
running from? He was in
dreamland all right. Mad-
dreaming nightmareland! Steady,
boy. Steady. Have a smoke.
Have a drink. Smile at the
hostess. Look out and take in
the cloudscape. Screw up your
guts for another glance at the
newspaper.
... .The shooting occurred at the
height of this afternoon’s downpour,
which facilitated the killer’s escape.
Guiseppe Ferrari, fish-cafd pro-
prietor, told police that standing at
his street door he heard two shots
and almost immediately saw a man
leave Stokes’s shop and hurry in the
direction of King’s Cros. The man
disappeared in the crowd. Ferrari
found Stokes in a dying condition.
He had been struck twice in the body
by bullets.
Police are anxious to interview a
man about 35, reddish hair and
moustache, wearing a fawn hat, grey
waterproof jacket....
There were photos of Stokes’s
wife talking to police, Ferrari,
a crowd round a shop entrance.
The story had every quality,
every impossibility of a night-
mare. A double? Also impos-
sible. Description too bloody
accurate, clothes and all. That
description and the gun back in
the flat —how did they get to the
flat so quick? Where’d they get
the description? Why the whole
bloody issue ?
He' forced himself into ice-
thin philosophy. Explanation
somewhere. Wait for it. For
now, empty it out of your mind
or you’ll be stark staring. There
was still a drink in the small
airline bottle he’d wedged in the
magazine-pocket in front of him.
|{.ed drank it.
The plane had reached its level
and seemed suspended motion-
less over a ghostly moonlit ocean
of cloud. A soothing scene.
After resting his eyes on it for
a while Red was able to tackle
coffee and sandwiches. Warm
smile from the blonde hostess
as she deftly fixed the tray.
He couldn’t help grinning
not so much at the girl
as at the situation. Smiles and
service. Fopd and drink.
Warmth, friendliness, luxury and
a million miles from strife. As
good as another, better planet.
Be good to hang here in space
for ever. Pity a thing as tiny
as the hand on his watch could
bring this to an end. Time
droned on.
Red was concerned about one
of the names on the crew-board
posted up for’ard for the
passengers’ information. Captain
B. A. Mackenzie, D.F.C. On his
routine morale-boost tour of the
cabin about halfway through a
flight an aircraft skipper usually
spared a glance for each
passenger. Might even pull up
beside you and pass the time of
day. Red decided to roost his
hat on the bridge of his nose and
loll in drugged slumber for the
occasion. Then he changed his
mind, found a pencil, jotted a
wary telegram on a scrap of
paper, folded some money in it.
Could be risky; could lead ’em
right off his track. But either
way it would ease his mind about
Mollie. They’d be watching her
like frontrow boys at a striptease.
Questioning, pestering her,
putting her through it all again.
The assurance in the wire would
be some little thing for her to
cling to.
“Well, blow me down, it’s
Leary!” Mackenzie paused in
the aisle and pushed out a hairy,
well-kept hand.
“Greetings, Pluto,” Red said.
“Sit down and rest your
epaulettes! Been admiring your
name bn the brassplate up there.”
Removing the mo. not much
help, he thought, but this is a
sharp-eyed cove.
“Better see how the rest of the
freight’s faring,” Mackenzie said
a few minutes later.
Red fished the folded paper


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WAL.ES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES :,BU 4387 (2 lines)
L. F. THORPE. MANAGER.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
<!
- -
I w
C.B.C.
BANKING rACIUTIES
Complete banking facilities, including
C.B.C. Savings Bank, are now available
to all members of a family at each
branch of this Bank in New South Wales,
Victoria, Queensland, Western Aus-
tralia and Australian Capital Territory.
Modern methods and equipment ensure
prompt transaction of Savings Bank
business.
f
Deposits in C.B.C. Savings Bank
are guaranteed by The
Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney Limited
The ever-increasing range of services avail -
able to our customers, whether the account
be large or small, will be explained to you
gladly by the Manager at Head Office or,
your nearest branch of the Bank.
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
from a pocket. “Wire this off
from Sydney for me?”
“From Sydney?”
“Yea. Officially, that’s where
I am.”
“Clandestine stuff, eh? Ha
ha! Done, m’boy!” That was
that. Thank God no need to
hammer the hush-angle with
Mackenzie.
8.30. Only about four hours
since everything in the garden
was lovely! Remembering he was
approaching South Australia,
Red turned his watch back half-
an-hour. He wished there were
enough westing in the world to
turn it back further. Back to
before he met Johnnie and banks
were where you signed for your
money.
Cloudland lay far behind now,
and below the vast plains drifted
miles ;deep in the darkness. Red
asked for a drink and lit another
smoke. All too soon he sensed
the change in the plane’s attitude.
Slanting down now in the long
slide back to earth. Making him
feel like a kid in a tram being
hustled to the dentist.
Shoaling in over a dark hump
of hills and a fairyland sweep
of lights, turning low over the
flat silver of the gulf . . .
' Red decided against a quiet
backstreet hotel. More anony-
mity in a big bustling establish-
ment, till he had time to do some
thinking. He booked-in near the
airline’s city office. The hotel
didn’t exactly bustle, but it was
large, fairly palatial and well
patronised. Red remembered
enough about Perth to claim it
as his home-town in the register.
In his room anxieties began to
crowd him. The flight seemed
a lullaby fantasy. He was a
man outside a lush movie-
theatre blinking back into per-
spective a world of harshened
reality.
IJE woke late in the morning
and went out. This was a
colder winter than Sydney’s. In
broad King William-street a
keen wind cut through him.
“It’s warm inside!” said a sign
on a big department-store, and
Red went in. A table was piled
with bargain-price pyjamas.
“Don’t wrap ’em,” Red told
the salesman. “Show me a
change-room—l’ll wear ’em.”
Back in the street with the
pyjamas underneath, the wind
lost a bit of its bite. Gawd, you
freeze easy when you’re scared!
Now for a feed!
Later he found a sunny park-
bench and opened the morning
paper. The shooting story was
there briefly with nothing new.
Noon now, and an early lunch-
hour crowd began to fill the park.
Mostly young, gay and chattering
over their pies and sandwiches.
Students and shop and office
people. Colorful carefree
clothing. Feet on the ground.
Lucky!
A uniformed policeman
wandered through, casting about
for undesirables, and Red felt
like gooseflesh under a spotlight.
He’d have to watch these boys.
Particularly the plainclothes
variety. That description would
be over here now, and a lot of
’em would have made a routine
memorisation. A pox on that
bloody description! What the
hell to do about it? He hunched
forward, stared for inspiration
at the cigarette-butts between his
feet and stroked his now non-
existent moustache.
On his way back to the hotel
Red bought a small mirror and
barber-type hand-clippers. It
was a long job, drastic and
exhausting. His arms ached from
holding up the second mirror
while he performed on the “back-
and-sides.” He topped-off the
treatment with his shaving-gear,
swept the carpet clear of all
traces of the afternoon’s activity
and parcelled this into his satchel.
In the mirror a noble forehead
sloped to a rosy bald pate ringed
by a close-cropped red stubble.
The face beneath these features
scowled suddenly and heels
clicked.
“Achtung! ” it snarled.
“Kolossal!” it leered. Get your
hat on and change pubs, it
thought.
Finance was a second factor
in making the change. Red
moved into a much cheaper place
some blocks across the city. Even
so, money was going to be a
problem. Take a job? Risky just
yet. Get known to too many
people. Wait a while. Get the
feel of the place. The thing about
the situation that banished sleep
that night was that there didn’t
seem a thing to do about it.
The morning paper slid under
the door and he got back into
bed with it to fill-in time. There
was a short follow-up on the
shooting. Killer known to the
police. Inter-State police alerted.
Early arrest expected. More
cheer-up stuff like that. He lit
a smoke, calmed down, forced
himself to browse through the
news that didn’t concern him.
There was a column down one
side of the front page called
This City. Red gulped and
almost swallowed his smoke.
“There’s more in men’s winter
fashions than meets the eye,” ran
one breezy paragraph. “Seems
a citizen entered a city emporium
during yesterday’s cold snap and
bought flannel pyjamas. ‘Don’t
wrap ’em,’ the Bloke told the
salesman. ‘Show me a change-
room. I’ll wear ’em!’ ”
’Struth! Getting publicity now!
Doing things to get attention!
Keep your head doyra, mug!
You’re in a small town now.
Red extended his shave to the
recently-cleared high country and
went out to breakfast. Bought
some essential clothing and a
suitcase. Found a park-seat,
sunny and secluded, and sat
there for a long time weathering
his brand-new bald patch.
A FTER sun-treatment three
days running Red break-
fasted at the hotel and made
necessary sorties bareheaded to
shake off any noticeable self-
consciousness. His height and
streamlined skull drew only
ordinary attention. He looked
ten years older and found him-
self adopting a carriage and
demeanor more in keeping with
the extra years.
He caught a snivelling cold'in
the head. Crossing a street he
also caught a pair of hard eyes
staring into his from the oppos-
ing pedestrians and understand-
ing flashed between Red and the
big man who passed him. “I
know you’re a detective!” said
Red’s eyes involuntarily, and
“I know you know!” said the
detective’s. An ice-cold tele-
pathic handshake. A reminder
of the fragility of his freedom.
A split-second clicking into place
of the right combination of
thoughts behind those eyes and
. . . finish.
And that night came disaster.
Red had a hot shower at the
hotel about seven - o’clock,
returned to. his room, dressed
and went out for a meal.'
“A packet of smokes, too,” he
said to the cashier, and pulled
out his wallet. It had been
cleaned out! He paid from
change in a trousers-pocket and
dragged himself back to the
hotel. Sat on the bed half
stunned. Hadn’t locked-up while
he went to the bathroom, of
course. Coat had felt O.K. when
he put it back on. Naturally,
with wallet back in the inside-
pocket and even a bit of silver
still rattling in another.
Get it back? No chance with-
out bringing attention to himself.
Perhaps police attention. Well,
it was about time he shifted
quarters! He crammed shaving-
gear, clippers, small mirror, a
couple of shirts and underthings
into the satchel and a few smaller
items into pockets. Left the rest
there in his suitcase. Left a note,
“Called away for a few days,”
under the grille at the empty
office. Thought about the hand-
writing tie-up, let it go. If they
got that close now they’d get him
anyway.
nrHE flophouse dormitory had
bare, plaster walls, a high
damp-stained ceiling and one
dim light hanging in the centre.
The room was square. About
twenty iron cots had their backs
to the walls and there was a
row of them in the middle. Not
much room between them. The
cots were numbered, and 23 in
the middle row creaked rustily
as Red sat on it and looked
about him.
The room was almost full.
So were the guests in one corner
where a bottle, was raised at
trombone-angle to a shrivelled
unshaven face. Ptchah!
shuddered the face, and a hand
from the next bed clawed for the
nectar. Other occupants lay on
their backs under blankets and
overcoats smoking and staring
silently at the ceiling. From one
ragged bundle came paroxysms
of coughing with a deathrattle
rasp to it. The floor was bare
concrete and the cold bit deep.
There wasn’t much conversation.
“Quite cosy, eh!” said the
man nearest Red. “You’ll find
everything about the establish-
ment equally delightful. Welcome ■
to the Waldorf!” Deep
chuckling sounds followed this
effusive babble, and Red jerked
his head toward the speaker.
He was an outsize Falstaff
with a cherubic grin among his
chins and a shock of wavy brown
hair. A cummerbund of shirt
bulged between jersey and
trousers. His tortured cot
groaned as he rolled and raised
himself on an elbow. He was a
ton of agitated jelly, shaking and
bubbling with amusement. He
had the face of a thousand-year-
old baby. It wasn’t the face of
a fool.
“Smoke?” Red said, holding
out a packet while he got
acclimatised to his company.
“Don’t tell me you find it snug
here! ”
“Thank you, my friend. I’ve
been snugger. But I appreciate
the unbounded advantages of the
setting. So easy to keep up the
necessary appearances! And it
isn’t, after all a penitentiary, One
has freedom. We must savor our
freedoms. Mine are frequently
(i Continued on page 27)


Low's
Autobiography
Here, in particular, Arnold Bennett. And how David Low
made himself familiar with London—and London with
Low.
9
(Continued)
jgMaMMMIjVfONG the various ideas of
i the “Star” people for build-
bM “ S ing up their new cartoonist
SS M I was Publication of a book
| of my Lloyd George cartoons
WmWmKil on the lines of my Australian
Billy Book.
I drew a lively cover for Lloyd George
& Co., which pleased everybody, featuring
my LI. G. and the double-headed
Coalition Ass.
The convention of the time demanded
an introduction by a writing man, on
the principle that no British public would
buy a book of pictures without a wedge
of text to read also, for money’s-worth
of time expended.
Who should write my introduction?
Who but Arnold Bennett, my
“discoverer”?
The publisi»rs arranged a meeting. I
set off to call on Arnold Bennett. Thrill.
The door was opened by a neat
uniformed maid into a neat dining-sitting
room furnished in a conventional style
except for two “modern” watercolor
paintings and six Nash woodcuts. Light-
green centre carpet, polished surrouncj.
The Great Man enters, holding writing-
block to breast, Mount Sinai fashion.
White quiff, pinkish face, heavy super-
cilious eyes, loose mouth, lumpy receding
chin, streaky moustache, chesty carriage,
a couple of stone weight more than he
should be, neat little hands and feet.
Striped suit, the famous fob. . Fancy
having a watch ticking there, I thought.
He didn’t look well. Stomach trouble.
“Mr. Low?” he said heavily.
There was a touch of condescension
in his manner, but how could I resent
that from the author of Clayhanger and
Hilda Lessways, which had made a mark
on my impressionable youth.
All the same, it was unexpected. I
had anticipated someone rushing oht with
both hands extended saying: “My dear
Low! Welcome!” After all, he had
some responsibility for me. I got the
idea that he hadn’t expected me to be
what I was, either. It was, as you might
say, two other fellows.
I heard later that, as he saw it, I
should have found my way into the
newspapers of Lord Beaverbrook, with
whom he was intimately friendly, and
that he was a little annoyed with the
“Daily News” and the Cadburys over
something. You never know with these
English.
TLJfE took rfie around the watercolors
and woodcuts and appeared slightly
pained when I did not enthuse.
I explained that my tastes were repre-
sentational—Velasquez and Rembrandt
in paint, Diirer and Daumier in drawing,
Rodin and Meunier in sculpture.
He thought that was no excuse.
Talking to Bennett was easy, although
he had the advantage of a slight stammer,
which enabled him to keep his thoughts,
ahead of his utterance. He would start
a sentence and hang up in the middle of
it, just long enough for one to foretell
his meaning, which gave one a pleased
feeling at one’s own cleverness.
Naturally, since he was to write my
preface, and he knew nothing about me
except my drawings, what might have
been a conversation soon became a cross-
examination: full name, birth,
nationality, and so on. I got tired of the
queslion-and-answer business and twisted
an inquiry about my methods into a
generalisation about the aims and
functions of all artists.
“No, Mr. Bennett, I am not an
unsuccessful painter, drawing cartoons,
falling back on journalism to make a
living.”
“Well, why do you choose journalism?”
“What do you work for, Mr. Bennett?”
“To make a 1-living.”
“Oh, that be blowed!. You already
have a living.”
“Well, what do you work for, Mr.
Low?”
“Because I like to.”
“You mean that if you hadn’t the
people who buy the newspapers as your
ARNOLD BENNETT
(The drawing is from the series of David Low’s
caricatures of notabilities, printed as supplements
by the “New Statesman” in the mid- twenties.
There’s a word-portrait of Bennett just as good
in this instalment.)
customers you would go on doing the
same sort of stuff for its own sake?”
“Not exactly. In so far as one’s stuff
is interpretative, one’s got to take stock
of the receptivity of the customers. What
I mean is that an artist has to like and
believe in what he’s doing. That’s the
main thing.”
“Don’t you want to be famous and
make a lot of money?”
“Not that bad.”
Bennett replied: “Bosh!”
“What about Nash and the other artists
who did these pictures on your wall?” I
asked.
“They made a sensible compromise.”
He shot at me suddenly: “D-do you
Believe?”
I was taken aback. That opened up
too many channels. I felt I had fumbled
this meeting and that he had marked me
down as a bit above myself. Under these
circumstances I had had enough argu-
ment for one day. Damn it, how does
one handle these English? I could see
in his eye that he was not exactly pleased
with his protege.
TT WAS wrong again. He wrote me a
flattering preface for my' book —got
some of his facts wrong, but all in my
favor. ' s
I was grateful. But it was years before
I was invited to Bennett’s house again.
By then I had become more established
and we had begun to run into one another
at other people’s parties, and a few words
here and a few words there had worn
down first-impressions and brought an
easier association.
It was long before I saw what I should
Victim at Work: “Billy” getting square
in “The Billy Book” (published by the
N.S.W. bookstall Co.).
have seen in the first place—that the
unease of that first meeting was not
wholly due to my not knowing how to
handle him, but partly to his not knowing
how to handle me. Behind that fa?ade
lay a considerable uncertainty about
himself.
But if the personal contact was inter-
rupted, not so the postal. The prepara-
tion of the book involved the exchange
of a few letters, alid after it was done
with Bennett continued to write to me
from time to time, generally in encourag-
ing terms about this cartoon or that, but
occasionally admonitory about my efforts
to write. For example:
My dear Low,
Your article was good, but some-
thing ought to be done about your
grammar. You must have been
educated at Eton or some such place.
Why? Consider the following
sentence ; and if necessary ask one
of your enlightened friends about it.
I was shocked.
“He amazed me by recalling out
of his marvellous memory cartoons
of the -past which I am sure everyone
but he and I had forgotten.”
Yours ever,
Arnold Bennett.
TT WAS delighted. At last this good
•U>man had established with me a proper
relationship of patron and tyro. It was
characteristic of the side of Arnold
Bennett which wrote books on Efficiency,
How to Live on 24 Hours a Day, and
so on, that he was sensitive about points
of punctilious correctitude which to
lesser men might have seemed unimport-
ant. When my portrait study of him was
published with others in a book for
which Rebecca West, under the
pseudonym of “Lynx,” wrote a set of
brilliant biographical articles, he had this
to say:
75 Cadogan Square,
S.W.I.
9/ 10/p
My dear Low,
... You ought to have added a
note that your caricature of me was
done before I had become the sylph
I am. There is a grave case of
mis-spelling on my first page. And
a still graver case of inaccuracy.
My shirt-fronts do not give out
“crepitant noises.” Never! For the
reason that I never in any circum-
stances wear a starched shirt-front.
(The only other man I know who
adheres strictly to this rule is Birken-
head) . . .
Yours ever,
Arnold Bennett.
Lloyd George & Co., my first English
book, was not in the same street as The
Billy Book either in quality or profit, but
it *went well enough on the bookstalls
at half-a-crown. The reviews were
marvellous. With the full weight of the
“Daily News” and the “Star” behind it,
collecting opinions of all the nobs and
using new photographs of LI. G.’s little
daughter Megan handling a copy at
.Victoria Station, saying “What a shame!"
we burst the traditional blindness of
Fleet-street newspapers to the perform-
ances of newspaper workers outside their
own staffs, and got paragraphs from our
competitors.
In my temporarily much inflated post-
bag I was delighted to find one morning
a note from Bernard Shaw, the great
panjandrum himself:
Until this man goes back to
Australia it will be a case of
Unhappy Low, lie down
Uneasy lies the head that wears a
crown.
G.B.S. 15/6/1921.


m HE reception of Lloyd■ George & Co.
Ji was a piece of pulse-taking as
instructive to me as it was to the “Daily
News” Company. It reassured us both
and smoothed relations. From then on
editorial disputes about the matter of
my cartoons became rare and we all got
on happily together.
Incidentally, the book had given me
also a standing of sorts in the Asquithian
or “Wee Free” Liberal party, based, of
course, on the fact of my association with
the Radical “Star,” and an easy belief
that it’s not what you are but where you
are that counts.
I may have been faintly embarrassed
at these assumptions. But I was decidedly
so when my good friend Hugh Jones
brought me an invitation to speak at the
National Liberal Club. I accepted,
mainly because I wanted to see if I could.
“Speak about what?”
“Anything.”
I had made only two speeches in my
life—speeches of farewell on leaving Aus-
tralia. My first was bad. My second
was worse. Now we should see.
The speech I made at the National
Liberal Club was my third, and probably
my worst. The elub was very political
then, and the large dining-room was
packed to hear me. Everything about
me felt wrong. I was acutely conscious
of disappointing expectations in my
appearance.
Despite the impressively solid looks of
F. C. Gould, the political cartoonist with
most honor among Liberals of the passing
generation, there still lingered a general
impression that the traditional carica-
turist —Gillray to Phil May—should wear
loud clothes, drink a lot and exhibit
bohemian tastes.
I was a thin, eager young man with
strongly marked eyebrows, weight nine
stone four pounds, height five feet ten
inches, gloomily dressed, preferring tea
to strong drink, and argument to funny
stories.
I was lonely, parked in the middle of
a lot of strangers, six of the largest of
whom had marched me in to the top table
like a military escort. I couldn’t see a
face I knew —Ah, thank God! . . . Hugh
Jones sitting-about a quarter of a mile
away.
I was vilely nervous; I lost my notes,
which- were most inappropriate, anyway.
To say my style was unorthodox was to
put it mildly. The marble statue of Glad-
stone facing me surely turned a shade
whiter.
It wasn’t until I finished and questions
came up that I scored a modest little
success. Someone asked me how I had
invented the double-headed donkey as
a symbol of the Coalition. I replied: “It
didn’t have to be invented/’
Poor stuff, but it brought the house
down, probably from relief and partly
from loyalty.
I retired as soon as I could, and I was
saved from my petty mortification by
having a larger private misery. My sister
was in hospital dangerously ill, and I had
to rush to find out whether she would live
or die.
NEXT day when I looked at the Liberal
papers, I was genuinely amazed.
“Mr. Low gave a delightful talk full of
witticisms,” began a half-column notice
in the “Westminster Gazette.” “The large
company who listened delightedly to his
mordant wit and screaming stories . .
said another. And another: “Members
were charmed by Low’s genial
philosophy.”
Was this party solidarity? Or had I
been good and not known it?
Anyway, putting everything at its
lowest, I could not have been as bad as
I thought I had been. And if that were
so, I had learned the first thing one
should know about public speaking:
what goes on inside a speaker, the inner
ferment of emotions, is of no account
whatever so long as he can keep a bland
exterior.
Apropos of that, I remember, many
years later than the time of which I am
writing, listening to Lloyd George and
Lord Moynihan, the eminent surgeon,
comparing notes about their emotional
disturbances.
Moynihan : . . And whenever I have
to make a speech I get a ball of ice
three and three-quarter inches in diameter
just over my navel.”
Lloyd George: “What size did you
say?”
Moynihan: “Three and three-quarter
inches.” *
Lloyd George: “Great Scott! Same
size as mine!”
AFTER the Lloyd George book and
my performance at the N.L.C. I
began to feel more at home. I became a
regular attendant at a “Wee Free” weekly
lunch at the House of Commons
organised by an extraordinarily energetic
chap, Wedgwood Benn, where I renewed
acquaintance with some of the people
I had met at the Paisley by-election.
The “Wee Frees” though few were
lively, and those meetings were jolly
and gay, perhaps because of the absence
of any feeling of impending responsi-
bility. The group had no function but
criticism, which, since it practically lived
on loathing Lloyd George, was enough.
In Wedgwood'himself, Pringle, Hogge
and Kenworthy it possessed a quartet
of political wasps unparalleled for
velocity and manoeuvre. The whole
group, when organised for debate, consti-
tuted a commando as skilful in tripping
up and throwing unwary Ministers on
their back as one would wish to meet
on a dark night.
Donald Maclean,' the party leader,
usually sat at the head of the table;
sometimes the public monuments,
Asquith, Grey or Simon, would turn up
to tell us of the Great Future That Lay
Before Us —or Behind Us, I forget which
—at which winks would be exchanged ;
sometimes Samuel came to talk sense
without humbug.
We had our feasts of triumph, as on
the arrival of a newly-elected “Wee
Free” member for Bodmin —one Isaac
Foot.
Once we were favored by the presence
of a good-looking dark young man with
sleek brushed-back hair, prominent nose
and a slight cast in his eye. He looked
the company over appraisingly, listened
to the quality of the conversation, offered
little talk himself and did not come
again. That was Oswald Mosley, about
to become a refugee from the Conserva-
tive party, looking for a new home. He
evidently found more promise in the
Labor party, for he made his switch soon
after.
I found that House of Commons lunch
a useful source for political gossip.
AFTER a time, moving as a journalist
getting his bearings and not as
another young man with his tongue
hanging out after a glorious place in
THE NEW MEMBER
This early London cartoon by Low ("Star";1923) has something of a latter-day U.N.O. ring: Mussolini’s
followers had grabbed Fiume, and he, in defiance of the League, had occupied Corfu. The League dodged
this first challenge.
ROTHENSTEIN’S “DAVID LOW”
(Low was ode of the 24 included in “Contemporaries: Portrait Drawings,” by
Sir William Rothenstein, with accompanying notes by various hands; published
by Faber and Faber . Some of the inclusions —of which the “Low” is one of
the very best —make interesting comparisons, with Low's own caricature-versions
of the same originals.)
politics, I got around to meeting some
people from the other two parties.
The Labor party seemed a peculiar
concern. Echoes of past differences,
including those about pacifists in the late
war, hung heavily about it. A partner-
ship of the Co-operative Movement, the
Trade Union Congress and the Independ-
ent Labor Party Socialists and Fabians
would naturally produce a healthy
friction, but the hostility and suspicion
of the “workers” for the “intellectuals”
surprised me.
The weakness of the Labor party was
that its brains thought of it as the party
of morality and idealism, but its body
did not feel that way at all and had
the most material aims. Labor would
not vote for Labor.
In the Parliament of 1920 Labor was
only the fag-end of a party. It looked a
pretty inadequate lot to take on Lloyd
George’s clustered hosts. No militants.
No leaders. Not that that mattered, since
outside they didn’t seem to be speaking
to one another anyway. Ramsay Mac-
Donald was reputed to have said he
hated the Labor party. Snowden had
become sour and tiffy. Even Keir Hardie
was losing interest.
THE bright boys of the party “brains
trust” appeared to gyrate around the
Webbs, Sidney and Beatrice. Unfor-
tunately for me I did not get far 'with
the Webbs. At the time they disapproved
of my fellow political cartoonist Will
Dyson as. a rebellious syndicalist, and
they evidently concluded that I, being
also a cartoonist from Australia like'
Will, and a friend of his, must be similarly
deplorable.
At the other en 4 of the stick, on Will’s
account also, I was outside the favor of
one of the party’s chief pillars of
Christian ethics, George Lansbury, too.
George was then the editor of the
“Herald,” Labor’s newspaper, for which
Will drew cartoons, and the two of them
were constantly having rows because
George objected to Will drawing
capitalists as devils. Innocently I had
introduced a devil or two into my own
cartoons in the “Star,” and that settled
me with George, to my regret.
LI. G.’s clever move in taking some
trade-union leaders into his War Govern-
ment (not to have a say in policy, as it
turned out, but as hostages for the good
behavior of Labor) had produced some
nice jealousy and back-biting behind the
trade-union scenes.
THE ground was trembling just then
under Arthur Henderson. I had
not been about long before people were
taking me aside to explain the Henderson
situation. Henderson, I was told, had
been sacked unfairly from the Govern-
ment for embarrassing it by attending a
conference of the Second International at
Stockholm while the war was yet unwon.
Excluding the fleshpot-loving Labor
Ministers on the one hand and Ramsay
and his pacifists on the other, this left
him the one possible leader of the party.
When at last I was presented to Hender-
son I thought him a perfect marvel of
o Continued on next page)


chesty, stiff pomposity. First impressions
in that case were wrong.
Many years later I was taking a cup
of tea with “Uncle Arthur” at Jack
Straw’s Castle on Hampstead Hill. He
was approaching the end of his days, after
long weary years as Foreign Secretary
of sincere striving after world peace,
stultified, frustrated but still chesty and
unbent.
“If you had it all to do again, would
you? Aren’t you disappointed? Does
it seem that all your efforts were worth
while?” asked Low, ever the journalist.
“It isn’t so much what one does as
what one tries to do,” he replied.*-
That, I thought, was a pretty good
thing to say.
'TpHE Conservative party had its
“intellectual” v. “worker” trouble
also, but with less obvious differentiation.
To an Antipodean eye, used to the
comparatively exaggerated individualism
of overseas M.P.s, the family resemblance
among those in this sector of West-
minster was somewhat confusing. At
first there appeared to me to be almost
a standard type, and I sometimes felt
rather like the British Tommy in China
who couldn’t tell whether he had just
seen a hundred Chinese or one Chinese
a hundred times.
They dressed alike, wore the same sort
of ties, brushed their hair in the same
style, walked and talked alike to an
ABORIGINES AUTHORITY
(Professor Sir Baldwin Spencer)
extent suggestive of the uniform product
of a system. Which was just what most
of them were, of course. This was the
core of British public life, the public-
school-university man who had “gone
in” for politics as a career.
The elite of the ruling class, confident
of its mission to rule, its members all
understanding one another perfectly,
laying ddwn the conditions, setting the'
standards and in general making politics
a game fit for gentlemen and West-
minster “the finest club in Europe.” And,
incidentally, making it difficult for out-
siders who did not come in by that door,
by providing a smooth background
against which these unfortunates might
easily appear as misfits, impossible cranks
or clever tricksters.
Later, as time passed and I got my
eye in, the units and groups of this elite
separated themselves more and I observed
that they pervaded all parties. I was
told a story about how two brilliant
young Oxford Union debaters, John
Simon and F. E. Smith, had tossed a
coin to decide which would become a
Liberal and which a Tory.
Probably in many cases the choice of
party had been as fortuitous, though I
had no doubt that many Parliamentary
seats came under the heading of family
inheritance.
In 1.920 the Labor party was somewhat
less infiltrated than the others. If some
far-seeing prophets felt the advent of
Labor government to be inevitable one
day, the general careerist view evidently
was that the day was not yet so imminent
as to risk one’s shirt on it.
jo) ATIOCINATING these matters, I
reflected further .that I had been
taking too much for granted. There
were, it appeared, differences of emphasis
as well as of essence about democracy.
The aims of democracy overseas and
in Britain were ostensibly the same
WINE KING
(The title to this David Low “Bulletin”
caricature (1913) was: “Seppelt, of Seppelts-
field Vineyards, South Australia.”)
regarding social and political equality
and so on. Yet, as it seemed to me, the
British article, while theoretically equali-
tarian, in practice had a great deal of
paternalism about it. The English, the
most influential element in British politics,
while talking proudly of British independ-
ence and self-reliance, had elevated
obedience —their opposite—to the highest
of virtues.
The Lords still had great weight in
government. The Big Ones governed for
the Little Ones. The middle-classes
identified popular rights with the
privileges of .the rich and the nobility.
These arrangements seemed quite
natural and proper to people of all classes
who regarded themselves as sturdy
democrats and talked of democracy as
though it were something achieved. Here
and there one met even people who, quite
unconscious of being other than firm
supporters of popular rights, held that
the conduct of public affairs should be
taken out of the of “the politicians”
and entrusted to “busiriessmen”s or,
much better, to the Royal Family,
particularly to the Prince of Wales, who
was very popular at the time as “Our
Smiling Prince.”
It was not unnatural that when in the
course of time a Labor Government
actually did materialise with promise of
change, some people should hail the
event as a crisis of democracy and
abandon morals and manners in attempt-
ing to obstruct the popular will. The
upper- and middle-classes could hear the
tumbrils in the streets.
At this distance of time their fright
seems gently comic against the later
experience of the modifying effects of
responsibility, and of how conservative
the Left can become in office.
AT the end of twelve months I did* a
little stocktaking. Seemingly I had
done well enough, but there were some
kicks as well as halfpence.
Lord Northcliffe had let it be printed
that in his opinion I was a failure;
Hannen Swaffer, even then an ace
columnist, had written that it would be
better for everybody if I went back to
Australia ; and the “Sunday Times” had
passed the doubtful compliment of devot-
ing to me a leading article entitled
“Poisoning the Wells.”
I ha«J been mistaken about the “Star.”
It was very cleverly written for its
readers. Surveying my own public and
reflecting upon their receptivity, I
estimated roughly that about sixty per
cent, took my stuff in their stride as
funny drawings merely; about thirty per
cent, saw the main point more-or-less ;
and the remaining ten per cent, saw the
complete whole clearly.
Satisfactory, considering that in some
respects I had broken new ground'
technically and in idea content I had
probably overstrained average “aware-
ness” now and then. It was bad that I
had not had time to do anything properly.
Always a blind dash. And with a mass-
circulation- newspaper, always too many
toes to tread on.
/HnNCE or twice I had noticed Henry
Cadbury looking at me with a queer
look, but I had been innocently unaware
that I had offended until one day he
took me out to lunch for a serious talk.
I could not at first fathom what he
was troubled about, but at last it came
out. X had drawn a cartoon showing
the Supreme Council of the League, after
having run out of suitable resorts for its
interminable Peace Conferences —the
South Pole, the Matterhorn, Niagara
Falls, etc. —at last sitting down to a final
session on a cloud, complete with wings,
harps and haloes.
Henry thought that this was in “bad
taste,” but why he could not say, beyond
affirming, as a general proposition, that
laughter was unseemly when associated
with religious matters (i.e., the accoutre-
ments of angels).
I was astonished. Holding a different
view, I could not take that lying down.
, I had to deplore the sweeping view
that made no distinction between the
crackling of thorns under a pot and the
sweet music of happiness. Surely it
depended on the nature of the laughter?
One might separate singing from religion,
because some singers made a raucous
row. Was laughter itself wicked? As
well ask if weeping be wicked. Were
not the elements of humor as emotional
as the elements of, say, grief, and as
capable of selection and emphasis to
express thoughts as worthy? Had I
myself not' just collaborated as a satirical
illustrator with Canon Adderley in his
volume Old Seed on New Ground ,
retelling certain of the Biblical parables
in a modern setting, and had not “The
Christiafi World” approved my “biting
satires on pretentious solemnities”? Was
there no laughter in Heaven?
For my own part, like Dean Inge, I
could not ever conceive a God as a sour-
puss. Further, I could not conceive of a
Heaven at all without laughter. For
without the perception of incongruity,
which is the prime inspiration of laughter,
how could there be any consciousness of
harmony?
When I get to Heaven, I told Henry,
if there be any Heaven, and I get to it, I
expect to continue as a caricaturist:
Henry did not expect that. Anyway,
he had no answer ready.
my point of view was not
shared universally, however, was
illustrated shortly after.
Jack Hobbs, the famous cricketer, had
touched a high point of his career in
equalling Grace’s batting record. I
celebrated the event in a cartoon entitled
“Relative Importance,” depicting Hobbs
as one of a row of statues of mixed
celebrities, in which his towering figure
JAM KING
(Sir Henry Jones, who “went to work in a jam-
factory when he was 12 years old, and began
with sticking labels on tins.” Serle.)
overshadowed Adam, Julius Caesar,
Charlie Chaplin, Mahomet, Columbus
and Lloyd George.
It was a piece of mere facetiousness,
meaning nothing, but since the public
interest in Hobbs was strong, the “Star”
gave it an importance it did not deserve
by printing it twice the usual size.
It brought a large number of letters,
eulogising and applauding, which
surprised me, and an indignantly worded
protest which surprised me even more
THREE SYDNEY EDITORS
Completing this page’s mixed hatch of David Low “Bulletin” caricatures, the editors (from left to right) are
Dr. Ward, “Daily Telegraph”; “Monty” Grover, “Sun”; T. W. Heney, “Sydney Morning Herald”


from the Ahmadiyya Moslem Mission,
which deeply resented Mahomet being
represented as an admirer of Hobbs,
even of his being represented at all.
The editor expressed his regrets at
the unintentional offence and regarded the
whole thing as settled. But no. Two
weeks later cables from India described
a movement in Calcutta “exhorting
Moslems to press for resolutions of
protest against the Hobbs cartoon which
shows a prophet among lesser celebrities.
Meetings will be held in the mosques.”
AN additional complication arose. Not
only one prophet but two had been
profaned, because the Moslems reverence
Adam also. Bitterness and fury were
redoubled. To quote a Calcutta corres-
pondent of the “Morning Post”:
“The cartoon has committed a serious
offence, which, had it taken place in this
country, would almost certainly have led
to bloodshed. What was obviously
intended as a harmless joke has convulsed
many Moslems to speechless rage.... .An
Urdu poster has been widely circulated
throughout the city, calling upon
Moslems to give unmistakable proof of
their love of Islam by asking the Govern-
ment of India to compel the British
Government to submit the editor of the
newspaper in question to such an ear-
twisting that it may be an object-lesson
to other newspapers. The posters have
resulted in meetings, resolutions and
prayers.”
The British Government was unrespon-
sive, for we heard no more. It is not
without a twinge of regret that I reflect
upon the loss to history of a picturesque
scene on Tower Hill, with plenty of
troops, policemen and drums, on the
occasion of my unfortunate editor having
his ears twisted on my behalf.
When I was talking with Mahatma
Gandhi some years later he deplored the
dearth of cartoonists in his country and
suggested that the well-known apprecia-
tion of satire possessed by Indians might
make it a congenial place for me to
spend some time professionally. I
refrained from comment.
The whole incident showed how
easily a thoughtless cartoonist can get
into trouble. I had never thought
seriously about Mahomet. How foolish
of me. I was ashamed —not of drawing
Mahomet in a cartoon, but of drawing
him in a silly cartoon.
10
TIME was passing and I was not
getting around enough. To do any
good in London, I told myself, I
had to know it inside out —the people
and the places. That was not going to
happen by accident. It had to be
organised—and without delay.
I had brought to London my tattered
copy of The Parson and the Painter, a
reprint of light-hearted articles on
rambles around the London of the
eighteen-nineties illustrated by the great
black-and-white artist Phil May. I had
always meant to draw London like that
one day. Here was the moment to com-
bine a labor of love with a course of
topographical education.
The idea was fresh then to London
daily journalism, but my editor was
easily persuaded. The “Star” had one of
the best humorous descriptive writers of
the time in F. W. Thomas, who knew his
London like a book. Together we sat
down to toast in a cup of coffee the new
partnership of “Low and I,” whose
business was to range London wild and
free every Tuesday for a regular feature-
article.
Judging by the accepted Fleet-street
tests —circulation and imitation —the
idea was a success from the start.
Thomas was a bit of luck for me. We
got on well. “Low and I” had not so
much the spirit of humor as of boyish
glee. Those Tuesdays became a bright
spot in my week.
We started my education tidily by see-
ing the New Year in on the steps of
St. Paul’s; thereafter proceeding, week
by week, first, to a round of the
commoner “sights” generally with the
special facilities of press-snoopers
licensed to be caught up in any bizarre
incident that might happen, as when we
helped the Zoo to domicile a pink
elephant and lent our moral support to
an attempt to lay a ghost at Hampton
Court Palace.
The Tower, the Abbey, the Mint, the
Zoo, Madame Tussaud’s and so on up
the Monument, down the sewers, inside
the clock-face of Big Ben, and outside the
roof of the weather-offices, alongside the
new “wireless” mast of 2LO, Savoy Hill,
PRESBYTER) AfJ
fLYMOUTH
5 ROCKS
SALVARM/
BAPTIST*.
ENGLAND.
R.C.
ATHEIST-
methodist:
IS RfIEUTE'
7? DAY ADVENTIST*
confuci/anisT
FAITHS AND FACES
(One of the most widely popular of all David Low’s “Bulletin” cartoons, this gentle
impeaching was based on the news-item: “At the Presbyterian Assembly the Rev. W. G.
Taylor said that different creeds produced different faces.”)
underneath the warehouses of the Port of
London. Up and down the old River
by punt, steam and sail, not only past the
ancient inns and the picturesque soap,
glue and cheese factories which then
fringed part of its shores, but returning
later to enter the more sinister of them,
one by one, with much importance to
see what went on.
We visited dutifully London’s shrines
and the places haunted by Johnson,
Dickens and history. So as not to miss
the common touch, we accompanied the
populace on its holidays to Southend,
Clacton, Brighton, and Margate, and in
between whiles we gambolled with it at
Hampstead Heath, waved beer-mugs
with it at the (old) Old Bull and Bush,
swam with it in Chiswick Baths, danced
with it at Hammersmith Palais, skated
with it at Holland Park, watched fights
with it at the Ring, bowled with it at
Denmark Hill, fished for tiddlers in and
sailed model yachts with it on the Serpen-
tine, played tennis at Battersea Park and
argued sedition with it at Hyde Park
Corner, while noting out of the corner
of an eye the tail-end of the days when
the rich oppressors really did ride horses
in Rotten Row.
Virgil Thomas saw to it that his docile
Dante missed no London occasion, from
the Lord Mayor’s Show to Beating the
Bounds of the Liberty and Manor of the
Savoy, W.C.2, complete with Beadle in
bowler-hat assisted by the choir-boys
of Chapel Royal.
WHEN there was nothing on in our
London proper, we took in any-
thing within reach, such as Kissing Day
at Hungerford, Shakspeare’s birthday at
Stratford, Henley Regatta or the Eton
Wall Game.
We embraced all the institutional
entertainments and shows such as the
Military Tournament, the Chelsea Arts
Ball, the Horse, Cat, Dog, Motor, Business
Equipment, Dairy and Poultry Shows
(the latter a particularly memorable
occasion because of Thomas’s discovery
of a way of conversing with cockerels by
making peep-peep noises through the
stem of his pipe); we encouraged
Suzanne Lenglen at Wimbledon, and
Jack Hobbs did not lack our support at
Lord’s; we supervised the Boat Race,
Ascot and the Derby, the latter from
both the Royal Enclosure and the Gipsy
encampments, and we accompanied for a
respectable distance the Brighton Walk.
(Dog-racing had not then been invented.)
Culture was not neglected. Among
those enjoying two-shillings’-worth at the
Proms, squatting on the hot-water pipes
at the old Queen’s Hall listening to Sieg-
fried having a devil of a time per favor
of S’r’enry Wood in his prime were
Thomas and Low.
We attended the Albert Hall and the
Royal Academy, by both front and back
doors, and took stock with patient
cheerfulness of all the Museums and Art
Galleries, one after another, mummies,
manuscripts, meubles and mumbo-jumbo,
including the underground workings of
the British Museum Reading Room and
what happens when you ask for a book.
We sat for a lecture at London Uni-
versity ; and, under the careful super-
vision of experts, planted bulbs in Hyde
Park.
(To be continued next weeky


try it...
you'll like it!
!«po:v;v.>v. • v.>
* s - *
SBB*
the
KB
Lager
BREWED AND BOTTLED BT TOOTH t CO. UMiTED
.fUSZd*
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Imported four-year-old mare
Regal Breeze, who won the
Campsie Stakes at Canterbury as
a Novice—her first success in
Australia —was formerly raced
by the Queen. The mare’s
trainer, T. J. Smith, acquired her
in England for a Melbourne
owner, F. W. Green ; he bought
her as a two-year-old after she
had been defeated at Newmarket.
It was only a ''minor event at
Canterbury, but she put in a
finish that suggested ability to
stay.
New Zealand owners seldom
send a dud galloper to‘Australia.
They are shrewd men of the
Turf, with a keen knowledge of
the prospects of winning in
Brisbane, Sydney and Mel-
bourne. Latest Enzedder to
succeed here —and at his
.first Australian start —was six-
year-old speedster Arganda, in
the Canterbury Flying. By Hello
Peter (imp.) from Venezia,
Arganda had won seven sprints
in N.Z. He’s now favored for the
Challenge Stakes, to be run next
Saturday week.
*•• • ♦
In N.Z. Arganda equalled the
track record when he won the
Railway Handicap at Wellington.
His breeding will particularly
interest Westralians: his dam,
Venezia, by Autopay (winner of
the 1931 A.J.C. Epsom) from
Miss Hunting Song by Hunting
Song (imp.), is a sister to the
dam of Perth classic-winners
Copper Beech (Oaks) and Just
Peter (Derby).
Arganda’s half-brother, by
Great Tradition (imp.), is
scheduled among the early N.Z.
sales offerings next Friday morn-
ing. The colt will be followed
into the ring by the brother to
Rising Fast.
Randwick trainer Fil Allotta
and the stable’s No. 1 jockey,
Stan Cassidy, landed a double
at Canterbury. Consistent
Bolingbroke had an easy task in
the Belmore Sta Hes; Queens-
berry landed the Canterbury
Park Handicap, though he only
just got there. Cassidy has had
three wins on Bolingbroke, all in
his last four starts and all at
Canterbury. Bolingbroke has
taken till his fourth year to open
his winning-account, but he’s in
such fine fettle that he should
soon win in open company. He
ran race-record time in the
Belmore Stakes.
Four years ago Silver
Phantom won the A.J.C. Epsom
in 1.34 j, beating Tarien and
Carioca. About a year later he
equalled the Canterbury Park
record for 7| furlongs (1.27 f,
set by Iroquois). Then, in 1954,
he broke a sesamoid bone, but
he has now made a remarkable
recovery, scoring a couple of wins
in recent outings, the last of them
at Canterbury on Saturday.
Two-year-old gelding New
Stand was beaten 10 lengths by
Todman in the A.J.C. Juvenile
Handicap on December 22 ; he
was well fancied by connections,
but Todman ran Australian-
record time for the five furlongs.
New Stand’s next start was at
Canterbury last Saturday, and
this time he was the Todman of
the Two-year-old Maiden Field,
starting at threes-on and winning
by 10 lengths. Raced by
W. Laforest and A. H. Watson,
and trained by T. J. Smith, New
Stand is another of the speedy
Newtown Wonders. He’s from
Woodstand by Mr. Standfast
(imp.) from Loloma by Spearfelt.
Loloma is a sister to Melbourne
Cup winner Dark Felt, and there
are other stayers in the family,
but few of the Newtown Wonder
breed have shown staying-ability.
When in training Merrie
Merton was a smart filly, her
wins including a first-start
success in the A.J.C. Gimcrack
(her sister, Warspite, was also a
brilliant galloper). Merrie Merton
is dam of Newcastle Maiden
Juvenile winner New Halo, yet
another Newtown Wonder.
Former Sydney galloper
Oxley, now ih the veteran class,
is still capable of good wins in
Melbourne. His former owner
parted with him for 700gns.,
but it wasn’t long before Oxley
repaid his purchase price and he
has continued raising the ante,
until his stake-earnings have now
neared £lO,OOO not a bad
return after 16 months. It was
intended to try Oxley as a
jumper in Melbourne, but he
struck such excellent form over
distances on the flat that the
idea was abandoned. The
veteran Delville Wood gelding's
latest win was in Caulfield’s
Inkerman Handicap (two miles)
last Saturday.
• • • •
When Take, It Easy was
offered as a yearling bidding
ceased at 450gns.—turned down
by her breeder, R. Baker, of
Scone (N.S.W.). A half-sister to
Field Boy (A.J.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes and the Villiers), she had
a promisingly easy win at
Hawkesbury. She is a two-year-
old daughter of Jain bo (imp.)
and Queen Joy by Grand Joy
(imp.) from Eaton Queen by
Eaton Lad (imp.).
Races at Rosehill and Canter-
bury are to be filmed from start
to finish, in line with A.J.C.
policy. The scheme is of
material assistance to stewards at
inquiries: jockeys can’t argue
against the film, nor do they try
much. First experiments with
filming races in Sydney were at
Rosehill, so the change should
be easy there. Seven cameras
will be used to take each event.
4 4-
Further confirming his already
world-ranking, swimmer Murray
Rose set two world-records in
winning the N.S.W. 440yds.
title at Sydney’s Olympic pool
on Saturday night. He swam
the 440yds. in 4min. 27.15ec.,
and his time for 400-metres was-
4min. 25.95ec. —what’s more, the
two world-times he beat (the
440yds. was Australian John
Marshall’s) had both been made
in the short 25-metre pool.
Another swim at the champion-
ships worth noting was the
winning of the junior 110yds. in
great style by 15-year-old Geoff
Shipton,.who could be Henricks’s
sprint successor.
* * *
“Tom”: Australia’s triple
gold-medal winner at Mel-
bourne’s Olympic Games, Betty
Cuthbert, was ranked ninth
amongst the outstanding women
athletes of 1956 in a poll of U.S.
sports-writers. First place (and
the Babe Didrikson trophy) was
given to American diving-star
Pat McCormick, who won a
diving double at the Games.
Whether or not the winner
deserved to be placed first, most
Australians would certainly put
Betty Cuthbert much higher up
the list than ninth.
* * *
Most seasons two 2nd XI inter-
state matches are played—Vic-
toria v. N.S.W., and Victoria v.
S.A. (N.S.W. and Queensland
play a “Colts” game each year.)
Last November, in Adelaide,
S/A. seconds beat Victoria by an
innings—young Beagley, now in
the S.A. Shield team, taking 7-51
to wreck Vic.’s second innings.
Last week, in Melbourne, N.S.W.
seconds walloped Victoria’s
“ That's the biggest damn fish you ever hooked .”
bowlers to the tune of 9-505
(Philpott 214 not-out), and led by
nearly 300 on the first innings,
though Vic. (2-314) got some of
their own back in their second
dig. Last season’s N.S.W.-Vic.
game, in Sydney (the first such
game since 1951), brought forth
three big individual scores —two
by Victorians, Jan Huntington’s
205 and Barry Stevens’s 183, and
Sid Carroll’s 177 run-out, which
took him back into the N.S.W.
Shield team after a couple of
years’ absence. These 2nd XI
games, which are useful stepping-
stones for the up-and-coming,
and a possible means of “come-
back” for a player who’s lost his
Shield place in a lean spell, are
well worth while.
“K.R.”: The recent tie
between Victoria and N.S.W.
was the second tie in first-class
cricket in Australia since World
War ll—it has also been
suggested that there’s only been
these two ties in first-class cricket
here since its beginnings. The
other known tie was in the
Bradman testimonial (Mel-
bourne, Dec. 3-7, 1948) —a run-
getting orgy, 1672 runs made in
all. Scores, century-makers only
listed—Hassett’s XI, 406 (Lind-
wall 104) and 430 (Hassett 102);
Bradman’s XI 434 (Bradman 123,
Meuleman 100) and 9-402 (Tallon
146 not-out, Morris 108). Tallon
made 91 of 100 runs scored in
the last hour’s play, and levelled
the scores from the very last ball.
“Kejokada”: In a Melbourne
pennant-game (St. Kilda v. North
Melbourne), played just before
Christmas, a batsman in North’s
second innings drove the ball
and they ran through ; when
the ball was returned to the
bowler’s end it was misfielded
and they went through again.
The umpire, however, would not
allow the second run, on the
score that he had interfered with
a fieldsman near the wicket. The
game, without that run, finished
in a one-run outright win for
the Saints. North protested, and
won their point—and the result
of the game became a tie. The
V.C.A. committee’s ruling was
that, .though the umpire was
ethically correct, the rules of
cricket expressly provide that he
is not an obstruction.
* * if!
“Cunedda” : The Australian Rugby
Union intends to make three
important requests at the International
Rugby Board meeting in England in
mid-March, when Mr. Justice Herron,
former N.S.W. Rugby Union
president, will represent the Aus-
tralian board. Australia is to seek
special dispensation of international
rules for the Tests against N.Z. ih
Australia next season; extension of
the dispensation that allows, for
domestic Australian matches, the
prohibition of kicking-out on the
full from any part of the field; and a
share in profits when Australia tours
overseas. The N.Z. Rugby Union
has agreed to play international
matches here under the former
dispensation, which allows advantage
to be gained from a kick-out on the
full only from the kicker’s own 2s
As regards the share of profits on
overseas tours, the present system is
that on tours all visitors’ expenses are
paid and profits are kept by the home
union. This handicaps Australia,
because most overseas teams use Aus-
tralia only as a “pipe-opener” for
an N.Z. tour, and consequently Aus-
tralia does not get nearly as much
revenue from visitors as Australian
teams draw overseas.
“Kanimbla”: Dissatisfaction
with the Rugby League “play-
the-ball” rule has led to several
suggested reforms. One, from
France, provides that a player
brought down with the ball shall
rise immediately and drop-kick
towards the other side’s goal, but
must neither try for a field-goal
nor kick into touch. In either of
those events the other side gets
a penalty-kick. His tackier
must put at least 4 metres
(13ft. liin.) in distance between
the kicker and himself, and the
ball shall not be played by either
side until it has travelled 4
metres. Supporters of the
change think it will speed the
game up considerably.
* * *
“C.A.A.”: Australia’s richest
professional foot-race, the
Bendigo Thousand, has been
saved by Ted Waterford, director
of two velodromes in Victoria.
The Bendigo meeting was begun
by the Commonwealth Athletic
Club in 1947, but increasing
difficulty was found in meeting
the huge prizemoney involved.
The club decided last year not
to continue, but now the meeting
will be held as usual, during
Victoria’s Labor Day holiday
weekend in March.


interrupted and always in
jeopardy.” Again the cherub
grin and all-over chuckle.
“Yes,” Red said, not knowing
what to say, “you can’t beat a
bit of freedom. Hell of a good
thing to have! ”
“Indeedy so! Fortunately I
still have the freedom of the City
of Adelaide, bless her soul.
Unfortunately, I can no longer
return to New Zealand, Queens-
land, New South Wales or
Victoria. I the slightest
desire to return to Korea. My
world is shrinking.”
“You’ve still got the rest of
South Australia, West Australia
and Tassie,” said Red, curiously
startled. Was there insight here?
Was this gramophone a booby-
trap, police-plant or something
brand-new?
“True,” the Fat Boy was
saying. “And the broad seas
beyond. With greatness goes
exile, eh?”
“With other things, too,” said
Red, entertained in spite of
himself. “What’s your great-
ness?”
“I have a great weakness for
cars. Other people’s.”
Without warning the light
went out. Red laughed as he got
into bed in the dark.
SHAVING was a problem in
the morning. For his
peculiar shaving problem Red
needed privacy, and privacy was
not a noticeable feature of the
flophouse. Some stalwart had
started the fire on which the hot-
water system depended; probably
the fellow now splashing in the
only bathroom. Showers and
washbowls were wide open to
inspection. Red waited for the
bathroom. »
A line of shaky, shivering,
coughing and spitting human
wreckage waited in the half-dark
along the wall of the still-locked
breakfast-room. A few younger
and healthier inmates appeared
to be heading for work. Heading
for that no-hope line, too, Red
thought, if they let themselves
stay here long enough. He got
into the bathroom.
“Good God! You haven’t
been to breakfast!” said the
blanketed bulk on the next bed.
“No. Shave, etcetera.”
“Ah! Shaving’s only slightly
insane at this hour. To brave the
braw morning fqr breakfast —
that breakfast”
“All right f’r you, Benny,”
came a hoarse voice from a
corner. “You c’d go f’r a month
on y’r fat!”
“I’ve gone many a month on
it, my friend. I find it an
indispensable standby. Acquiring
it has cost me a lifetime of
assiduous inaction!” The fat
face appeared, aglow with
episcopal benevolence, eyes clear
and alert.
“Gawdamighty, I c’d use a
stiffener! ” complained the
hoarse voice. “If you spot me
little mate outside will you word
’im I want ’im?”
“I shall, my friend,” beamed
Benny. “Loose end this morn-
ing?” he asked Red.
“Yes.”
“Strolling through the streets
together I daresay we’d be no
more conspicuous than a walrus
and a carpenter. I find the
gardens good for the soul on a
sunny morning. A good book
and a bench by the Torrens.”
He covered his head again and
heaved about for a comfortable
wallow with a mountainous
disturbance of blankets.
“Do you know me little
mate?” the hoarse voice
quavered. “Got a gammy leg
and a stick. Tell ’im Pat wants
’im.”
Red spotted Gammy-leg thaw-
ing in a thin slant of sunlight in
the street and delivered the
message. Gammy-leg set course
with dispatch for an inn Red
could see in the near distance.
He didn’t quite know why he
found his way to a bench by the
Torrens. If the fat man were
some kind of stooge it was
suicide. He did know he’d had
a bellyful of his own company.
He sat there resting his eyes on
the stretch of water and parkland
and ate a couple of bread rolls.
Seagulls walked up on pink legs
and picked impertinently at the
crumbs. Queer thing that. You
never saw it in Sydney, where
pigeons were the scavengers.
Though they foraged right to his
feet the gulls moved with nervy
vigilance, alert for a wrong move
from any quarter, set for instant
flight. The way I’ve got to be,
Red thought, all the bloody time.
Better keep buttoned-up with this
fat bloke. Talks so much himself
he’s likely to get you in.
The sun began to warm him
and he* let his thoughts loose.
They bunched and bolted hell-
bent for the home paddock —
King’s Cross that rainy after-
noon. The heavy .45 in his room
that brought with it a violent
vision of Johnnie. Police leaping
over the pavement towards his
own doorway. The newspaper
story and pictures. His own
description broadcast, crazy in its
accuracy and impossibility. That
Ferrari, the fish-shop bloke —said
he’d seen the killer—did he give
’em Red’s description? How the
hell could he! No sense any-
where! He’d noticed Ferrari a
few times sweeping out his cafe.
Run-of-the-mill middle-aged Itie,
bald-headed, specs, moustache.
Third-rate joint, by the look of
it. No, someone had planted that
description, someone close
enough at the Cross to breathe
down his neck. Someone sleek,
smooth and smelling of death
like —
“Prithee, why so pale, fond
lover ?
-Why so wan and pale ?
Will, when looking well won’t
win her,
Looking ill prevail ?”
“God!” Red jerked out.
“Must you do that?”
HE was in vast shadow, staring
up at the fat man. God,
what a size! Red hadn’t seen
him on his feet before. He wore
sandshoes, elephantine grey
slacks and a brown turtle-neck
sweater. He was beaming like
a sunrise. He contemplated Red
with Buddha serenity, then
moved and sat down with a
thump.
“Ah, the sun again!” said
Red.
“It’s a morning for warbling.
D’you read poetry?” said Benny.
“Not much. How does that
thing go again?”
“It’s gone, like his lordship
who wrote it. But the philosophy
lingers. What were you making
yourself sick about?”
The head-on attack scattered
Red’s defences. The fat man
listened for half-an-hour, inter-
rupting only with a grunt or a
chuckle.
“A droll drama!” he said at
last. “And actually all that’s on
your conscience is helping three
gunmen rob a bank in the dim
past” . . .
“It’s not dim,” said Red.
“Helping three gunmen rob
a bank, robbing them of the
bulk of the dividend, and
treating ’em to a generous stretch
of stir! Ho, ho!’’
“Did a short stretch myself,
remember.”
“True.”
“And only dodged Johnnie
when he got out by getting
caught with a parcel of contra-
band . . . And being dunked
safely in the dungeons again!
Beautiful! There’s a beautiful
slapstick pattern about it all!
Oh, beautiful!”
“Yeah. Beautiful. A beauti-
ful bloody mess.”
“No! Never! A pattern is
never a mess. It works out.
There are rules. It carries its own
solution. Here we have a series
of reverses. Johnnie’s in, you’re
out! Johnnie’s out, you’re in!
You’ve got thick red hair and a
moustache! You’re cleanshaven
and bald! Johnnie’s a ferocious
Sicilian . . . What would Chaplin
do? Mack Sennett? Where
would you throw the pie?”
“Right down my own throat
if I had a pie,” Red said.
“I’ve arranged for lunch to
be served here. Where were we?
In smoke in Sydney. A grain of
sand in the Sahara. Unknown,
unnoticed, on the straight-and-
narrow. Someone plants two
bullets in a tobacconist, a .45
in your flat, your description
with the police. You fly to
Adelaide, become your own
Delilah, lose your money with
your strength, and sit steeped in
despair on a park bench. He
can’t get out of this! Grip your
seat for the fourth reel! Where’s
me gum? Gawd, look at ’im!
I can’t stand it, I tell ya!”
Benny rose to his feet like a
space balloon. “Lunch here at
noon, then,” he said, and ambled
away under the trees.
Reef’s watch said ten-to-eleven.
He felt he should be kicking him-
self for dropping his guard. He
was wide, wide open to Benny
now! A fatalism that comes
with fatigue and a lassitude from
the sun and listening to Benny
made him too sluggish to think
up anything smart. Good or
bad, it felt better than the
earlier terror. He stretched his
legs and relaxed. Benny’s words
tumbled through his mind like
blown leaves.
If there was sense there he
couldn’t see it. He groped
vaguely but there seemed nothing
to grab. But an irritating idea
grew that Benny had left an
answer floating around some-
where. He got up and walked
about the park to ease the numb-
ness in his rump. He was sensi-
tive to the reactions of people he
passed. At the most they gave
him the quick city-glance of
ordinary interest, the look of
appraisal any human normally
alert gives another.
One girl caught his eye and
half-smiled in passing. It
warmed him. Apparently he
seemed within the limits
of conven ti o n. Nothing
showing. Must have been
plenty showing when he looked
into the eyes of that detective.
Must act loose and unconcerned,
be loose and unconcerned.
Tension sent signals and
sharpened-up people around
you.
RED’S hunger sharpened at the
sight of Benny moving
through the park with a parcel.
Despite his weight he covered the
ground with an effortless amble,
like a man who could walk all
day ; The parcel held solid-
looking sandwiches and Benny’s
pockets held oranges.
“How come?” Red said.
“Honest toil. I’ve arranged to
cut sandwiches for an hour each
morning in yonder kiosk. The
task yields lunch and a crown
for the claret. Charming woman!
What neWs?”
“I’m uplifted,” Red said. “A
girl damn’ near smiled at me.”
“And why not? You look
distinguished. Like a pardoned
Nazi plagued with memories.
It’s the haircut.”
“How’s it look?”
“Perfect last night and early
this morning in poor light. Even
now only a child or a dog would
see through it. Adult vision is
clouded with cleverness”. . .
“I don’t know any children or
dogs over here ; but one look
I got from a demon wasn’t
clouded. In the street yesterday.”
“The gendarmerie has much in
common with mothers-in-law.
Rules of human behavior don’t
apply.”
“Are you married?”
“Never again! I’ve had to
limit my litigation to essentials.
Arrears in alimony! Jousting
with the judiciary! And denied,
mind you, even 4 the basic human
right of sanctuary in the cells!
‘How can the man earn alimony
in jail?’ thundered this Hanging
Judge Jeffries at the tigress.
Freedom to work for her . . .
that was the sentence! Thank
God for Korea!”
“Grim place to dodge to.”
“Not that grim, my friend, not
that grim! I welcomed every
flake of snow and cherished every
chilblain.”
“You must have been a whale
of a target!”
“True. But the bullets just
sank in. I bore a charmed life.
You’ve been engaged in ballisti-
cuffs?”
“Yes. And I didn’t like it.
But it wasn’t nearly as personal
as Johnnie’s going to be if the
police don’t get me first.”
Red chucked a crust to the
gulls, brushed off some crumbs
and produced the cigarettes.
“You forget we have a crown
for the claret,” Benny said, and
led the way. They cut across a
city block via a narrow back
street and turned into a small bar
where a fire was burning.
“Ha-a-a!” said Red, wiping
the thick froth of a Cooper’s
ale from his face. “That’s
better. Boy —sitting around the
parklands perks up your thirst! ”
He felt a few shades better all
round. Someone to talk to,
mainly. He saw something in the
mirror behind the bar and stared,
puzzled. “Hell, Benny, is that a
trick glass?”
“Owr trick, if we can take it!
Beginning of the fourth reel —
remember? Hero’s return! Pie-
throwing in high places!
Wedding bells! Turn round and
100k —they’re used to it.”
Benny’s moon-face glowed
like a filament and he shook
with volcanic amusement. Red
turned and looked.
TN a parlor off the bar sat a
T girl about seven-feet tall with
the figure of a praying-mantis.
A flat straw with a two-foot brim
balanced on sleek blonde hair
framing a tiny pink-and-white
doll’s face. Her head, on a long
stem of neck, looked as big as
an apple. From a pencil-thin
waist her frock flared parachute-
size to the floor. The colors were
dazzling. In the parlor she was
a tenuous vision lit from within.
The dwarf sitting opposite had
a job to raise his heavy chin
clear of the table, and his feet
swung well clear of the floor.
He had a starch-stiff black mop
of hair and was as lively as the
lady was still.
“Whew!” Red said at last.
“Strong beer! They’re from
Mars?”
“Bugsie’s Band,” grinned the
barman. “Freaks, every one of
’em. Thought your mate here
was in the show —he’d only have
to blow a tin-whistle.”
The girf rose to her full,
fantastic height and minced out
of the parlor, the dwarf trotting
beside her.
“Our cue,” Benny said. “Let’s
go.”
“Go where?”
“To see this slapstick comedy
of yours to its saccharine con-
clusion. I’m about to be tested
for incongruity!”
Heads jerked, startled, as the
girl, and her bug-like escort
moved along the street. They
turned down a side alley beside
the theatre. Benny led Red in
the front way, past a grotesque
photo-gallery, up a broad velvety
stairway, and into the shadowed
auditorium. The place was vast
and empty but the stage was lit
and something was happening
there. Red found himself nudged
into a seat well down front and
Benny settled beside him.
Up under the light was a litter
of musical gear, a couple of
fellows shoving it about. A broad
man at a grand piano was
buffooning with the bass. The
dwarf appeared and unlimbered
a banjo. He listened to the
jungle-thump on the keyboard
for a moment, then unleashed a
machine-gun burst from the
banjo, settled to a gentle off-the-
beat plunk, sprayed off a vicious
splatter of notes and put down
the instrument.
“That’s fine,” came a tired
voice off-stage, and the pianist
lit a smoke. “Let’s have that
boomerang lick,” said the voice.
A trombone glittered brassily
under the lights and a long noise
sped diminishing round the
auditorium, returning crescendo
and landing with a clang from
a cowbell hung over the drums.
“0.K.,” said the voice, and its
owner appeared on stage. Black
silk and slacks hanging from a
gnome-like head. The shirt and
slacks seemed empty. The head
had a square and puckish face.
“There’s no time like now,”
he called back at the wings. More
people drifted on stage and sat
among the instruments. One or
two people looked almost
normal, but there weren’t enough
of these to spoil the effect.
Benny squeezed out of his seat
and ambled forward. He rose
out of the darkness like Neptune
from the sea and towered on
stage. The band leader cranked
his head back and looked him
over and a broad grin split his
face.
“You the guy called me this
morning?”
Benny beamed down on him
and nodded.
“O.K.—come with me. You
boys get on with it.”
HE headed for the wings with
Benny padding behind him.
The “boys” started in with a
dreamy old-time waltz, a couple
of latecomers picking it up
as they arrived. A really
beautiful girl moved up to a
microphone in front and began
to sing it with them. Red had
heard this band’s records on the
radio for years. A top team in
the States. They built a tune
up like a house of cards, then
smashed it with sledgehammer
cynicism. Red could sense the
“extra” touch up there on the
stage. The assurance, ingenuity
and suspense.
The music became brassy and
blatant. A saxophone sneered,
a clarinet whinnied, the deft
demolition began. The girl
clung to the crumbling structure
of the melody, still singing it
straight. Her words were
burlesqued and the sentiment
trampled in a chaos of clowning.
It was slapstick sadism, musical
rape. When it stopped the silence
was stunning. There was some
laconic talk with the leader and
they did it again.
This time, at the height of the
iconoclastic clatter, Benny
ambled on stage and did some
remarkable business with a
ukulele. In a snap silence from
the band he mimed the con-
centration of a ’cellist and the
gymnastics of a slap-bass to
produce a fluttering falsetto trill
from the pint-sized instrument
snuggling against his left ear.
Then he plunged to incredible
deep ’cello chords at which the
near-by performer on that
instrument examined it suspici-
ously as the band crashed in on
Benny. The band-leader raised
a hand and stopped it.
“Say —you looked pretty good
in there,” he said. “Like your
bit, too, Al,” to the ’cellist.
He jerked his head and Benny
followed him back to the wings.
The band got set to blow up
another number and stick a pin
in it. Soon Benny came down to
where Red was and they left the
theatre. They returned to the
little bar along the street.
“You’re a hard bloke to keep
pace with,” Red said. “But that’s
a bit of a break for you. Con-
gratulations! You certainly
seemed to fit in with ’em. Where’d
you learn that stuff?”
“I assure you this is the first
time I’ve been fat man in a
freak show. My musicianship
was extended to the limit in
what you saw of it. It has
occasionally entertained troops.
It now ensures our return to
Sydney”. . ,
(i Continued on page 30)
DEL ESPIRITU SANTO
Fierce and holy flower
burning, in the drenched
depths of blue-grey bush,
solitary, unquenched.
Sprung from Eden earth
named with sacred name,
from stiff serrated leaves
rises the chaliced flame.
Misted mauve-grey light
brightens, glistens, fades
through the crowding depths
of fronds and spears and blades.
Silence, save the one
I thrush’s piercing call,
save, from fern-hung heights,
hush of the waterfall.
Holy, holy flower,
through centuries, again
sprung from the mould to burn,
burn in the bush and rain.
N.S.W.
ROLAND ROBINSON.


CHATEAU TANUNDA
Stories of the Coastal Lights No. 1
rk
m
mm
mi
The Macquarie Light
The first lighthouse on more than 12,000 miles of
Australian coastline was built on the South Head at the
entrance to Sydney Harbour in 1816-18 and was the first
major work of the convict architect Francis Greenway.
Greenway s original suggestion was that the light should be
erected on North Head, but he was over-ruled because of
the inaccessibility of the site.
and great . we ‘g ht of the sandstone at
south Head led Greenway to build the basement under the
tower with four big piers. Each of them consisted of about
90 square feet of solid stone.
. , for .the light-keeper were planned on the
northern side and a room for the Governor was at the other
both were under little domes. The central tower
stood 76 ft. high, on a spot 277 ft. above the sea. This
central tower was beautifully proportioned, but the lantern
has been criticised by modern architects as too slender.
The foundation stone of the lighthouse was laid on June 4,
1816, and the stonework was finished next year. On the
day this part of the work was completed, Governor Mac-
tf le Greenway his emancipation in appreciation
of his services. "
Although good progress was made with the work, the
lighthouse was not finished till May 16, 1818. On a clear
night, the light was visible for 24 miles.
The poor quality of the South Head sandstone soon be-
came apparent. It began to crumble, a way and within 50
years the tower had to be strapped with iron bands.
In 1883 it was replaced with the present Macquarie Light-
house, which was built slightly further back from the sea.
The new lighthouse resembles Greenway's design in its
general outlines, but it differs from it in many particulars.
X.°' day ’ there are 20 lighthouses on the New South
Wales coast and 202 on the whole coast of Australia . .
silent guardians of our Island Continent’s sea-borne trade.
There's safety in the quality of
CHATEAU TANUNDA
N •
N.S.W. Agents
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 118 years
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE SOVIET
pRESS - COMMENT on the
1 end-of-the-year meeting of
the Soviet Communist Party’s
central • committee-:
London ‘‘Daily Telegraph”:
“Not since Marie Antoinette
remarked ‘lf you can’t give them
bread, why not give them cake?’
has any ruler’s reaction to
revolution been so frivolously
irrelevant as the report just
issued by the Soviet Communist
party’s Central Committee after
their five-day secret session in
Moscow.
“The Soviet leaders would
have us believe that, while their
empire is visibly cracking at the
seams, with revolution or the
threat of revolution breaking out
on all sides, they sat in solemn
and protracted conclave dis-
cussing such questions as the
future of the Russian cement-
industry and the shortcomings
in civil-engineering.
“No mention, it seems, was
made of Hungary or Poland; or
of Eastern Germany, where
Russian tanks are more and
more in evidence; Marshal
Tito’s name crossed no one’s
lips ; the growing discontent of
Soviet students and workers was
ignored. Nor, it seems, was Mr.
Khrushchev called upon to
speak.
“Nero’s fiddling while Rome
burnt was a very model of
responsibility by comparison
with the Soviet leaders’ truly
marvellous disregard for the
ugly facts of Communist life.”
* * *
London “Economist’’:
“Though the communique still
repeats the orthodox formula
about the absolute priority of
heavy industry, this meeting
might well mark a shift in Soviet
policy towards greater concern
for the consumer. A real hous-
ing drive would play a key part
in such, a new programme.
“During the short premiership
of Mr. Malenkov, this seemed
to be the pattern of liberalisation.
The explosive failures of Mr.
Khrushchev’s methods may have
put his predecessor in a new
light, but the revival of a policy
does not necessarily mean the
return of its author. A special
session of the Supreme Soviet, to
be held early this year, should
show how strong are the echoes
of the Hungarian rising and how
important are the changes they
have precipitated in Soviet
policies and leadership.”
* * *
t Edinburgh "Scotsman”:
“Without expressly admitting it,
the committee appear to be
reverting to the policy of Mr.
Malenkov. His plan was to
lighten .the load which capital
investment for succeeding
generations was placing on the
Russians of today. He wanted
to give the present generation a
few more consumer-goods to
take the edge off their sacrifices.
“When Mr. Malenkov made
way for Mr. Khrushchev there
was a partial reversion to the
economic policy of Stalin. To
place emphasis on the produc-
tion of consumer-goods is to
fly in the face of the funda-
mental principle in Soviet
economics that basic industries
have an absolute priority.
“Mr. Khrushchev evidently
felt it safer .to steer by this star,
but it' looks- as if the Presidium
has been divided on the question,
and it may be that Malenkov
and the economists have won a
carefully-disguised victory.”
* * *
“New York Times' “For the
moment, the Central Committee
announcement suggests, Mos-
cow is interested in presenting
a public facade of complete
unity in the leadership and of
equanimity in the face of set-
backs. Yet such complete
unanimity and equanimity are
belied by the key operative
announcement of the Central
Committee session. It was no
easy decision for the Central
Committee to order a cutback
in capital investment and the
abandonment of projects recently
started.
“Moscow tried to cover the
significance of this move by
brave words about the
‘superiority’ of its economic
system over ours [America’s].
But an investment cutback is an
investment cutback, whether
made in the Soviet Union or in
a free-enterprise economy. It is
a sign of trouble, and no
observer of recent world events
can doubt that Moscow has
more than a little trouble on its
hands today.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian”: “The
committee finds a ‘firm
guarantee’ that ‘peaceful
economic competition’ between
Communism and Capitalism
must lead to the ‘assured’ victory
of the Soviet system, since this is
‘free of all the plagues and deep
contradictions of the Capitalist
mode of production.’ It is
familiar talk but, coming on the
heels of ‘the contradiction’ in
Hungary, it must ring rather
hollow.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail”: “Strikes
and hostile demonstrations are
reported [in Russia], and even
the heckling, at a public meeting,
of a woman-member' of the
Presidium. The heckler was not
struck dead.
“Acute observers of the Soviet
scene say that the younger
generation are not Communists.
This is, perhaps, an over-
optimistic view.
“But it is reasonable to think
that education has led to
independent thought, and that
not all young Russians believe
the Red Paradise to be Paradise
enow.
“All these signs, some slight,
some tremendous, point to a
ferment working in the
Communist world. The Soviet
rulers, moreover, are taking
serious notice of it.
“If the Communist system can
be modified by easy stages the
world will benefit, but if it
should break up in violence there
is no knowing where that
violence would end.”
Nasser and Suez
“Yorkshire Post” on a “master-
piece of effrontery”—the Egyp-
tian resolution introduced
before the General Assembly of
U.N. calling for “indemnities
from Britain, France and Israel
to meet the losses caused in Suez
and in the Sinai Desert through
the recent operations there, and
through various events arising
therefrom” :
“The problems of the Middle
East cannot be ordered without
a settlement of the problem of
the Suez Canal. In order to
clear the ground, questions, of-
indemnities could certainly be
brought forward. But if this
were to happen the damage
caused by the Egyptian Govern-
ment to other nations would also
have to find a place in the
account.
“By the Egyptians’ action the
canal has been blocked and will
remain so for some time. As a
military measure the sinkings
were meaningless: how would
the Egyptians be helped by
making the canal impassable?
The Egyptians felt the point at
issue to lie in the control of the
canal.
“If the question of indemnities
is to be raised at all, let it be
done properly. Let the damage
caused be assessed' all round ; it
will then be found that the
balance is heavily in favor of the
Allies.
“But this is only the begin-
ning of the problem. Behind the
question of indemnities stands
the larger one of how the canal
is to be kept open for navigation
in the future. The basic ques-
tion, the question we [the “York-
shire Post”] raised here as soon
as it was learnt that Colonel
Nasser had nationalised the
canal, remains: is the Egyptian
Government fit to be entrusted
London “Daily Mail”
HOW LONG FOR HIM?
with the running of this water-
way?
“Nothing that has happened
since that day suggests that
Colonel Nasser’s Government
is fit for this charge. On the
contrary, this obstructiveness in
blocking the canal has merely
made the question more insis-
tent: more clearly than ever
before the control of the canal
depends on the dictator’s whim.
“This, and not the issue of in-
demnities, ought to be the first
point to occupy the U.N.”
Cyprus
The rejection by the Greek
Cypriots and the Greeks of Lord
Radcliffe’s proposed Constitu-
tion for Cyprus was, despite the
more optimistic comments
noted here last week, not
altogether unexpected, “New
York Times” noting that “when
the elements of the situation are
put toget h e r the Greek-
Turkish conflict, the strategic
importance of Cyprus to the
British now, above all, and the
terrorism on the island—it is
obvious that no offer satisfactory
to the Greeks could be made
today”:
“Perhaps one can see a
glimmer of hope in another idea
put forward for the first time
by Colonial Secretary Lennox-
Boyd—to partition the island
between the Greek and Turkish
Cypriots. Mr. Lennox - Boyd
calls this the ‘least imperfect’
solution. The experiences of
Ireland, Korea, Indo-China and
Kashmir would indicate that
partition is a most unhappy and
unsatisfactory arrangement, but
if it should prove the least of
the evils facing Cyprus in the
future it might be worth trying
some day.
“One is always assailed by a
sense of hopelessness and help-
lessness in contemplating Cyprus
from any viewpoint except an
exclusively Greek or Turkish or
British one. All that can be done
is to keep trying in the hope that
time and events will one day
bring matters to a pass where a
peaceful solution is possible.”
Regarding the British view-
point, Anthony Lejeune, deputy-
editor of London “Time and
Tide,” suggests that “if British
interests were ignored altogether
the problem would be just as
intractable and perhaps even
more dangerous”:
“The fact of the matter is
that the Greek Government has
very little interest in Consti-
tutional proposals. ‘Self-deter-
mination for Cyprus’—that is.
the absorption of Cyprus into
Greece—is the chief platform of
Greek politics today. Mr.
Karamanlis and his Govern-
ment are far too deeply com-
mitted to that goal for it to
be politically possible for them
to accept anything less. No
doubt Mr. Lennox-Boyd exerted
his considerable powers of
persuasion in Athens, but the
Greeks are simply unwilling to
listen to proposals which do not
contain a definite prospect of
enosis.
“Mr. Lennox-Boyd flew from
Athens to Ankara, from one side
of the problem to the other.
The Turkish Government is no
more willing than the Greek to
yield ground over Cyprus. Con-
stitutional proposals do not
interest them unless accom-
panied by an assurance that
Cyprus will remain permanently
British. Failing this, they want
a promise that partition at least
will be available to them.
“Faced by such incompatible
demands, what can Britain do?
Mr. Lennox-Boyd is an able and
energetic man, but he cannot be
expected to score runs on an
impossible wicket. The very
things for which he was criti-
cised most after his statement
[on partition] were, in fact, the
most conciliatory of escapes
from extremely prickly
dilemmas. From the Turkish
point of view, his reference to
the possibility of partition was
excessively mild. By sending
Ambassadors to Archbishop
Makarios he went as far as he
possibly could at this juncture
to bring that unruly prelate back
on to the stage.
“It is, of course, perfectly true
that the Radcliffe Constitution
could bring great benefits to the
people of Cyprus. For the
matter of that, their material
wellbeing is probably best served
by the retention of British
colonial rule. It would certainly
not be helped by union with
Greece. But in Cyprus, as in so
many other trouble-spots of the
world, reason no longer rules.
“There has, on the other hand,
been one solid gain. By showing
so much thought, care and
courtesy Lord Radcliffe and Mr.
Lennox-Boyd have gone a long
way towards convincing the rest
of the world that Britain does
want a solution in Cyprus, has
offered reasonable proposals and
deplores an impasse from which
she cannot escape on her own.
“That much is useful, particu-
larly perhaps in our [Britain’s]


o*
NOW OPEN!
STATE
ELECTRICITY
COMMISSION
OF QUEENSLAND
LOAN «-7-6 %
GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
Short term for 5 years
(10 or 20 years optional)
APPLY free of exchange through the Commonwealth Trading
Bank; Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of New
South Wales; any Stockbroker, or direct to the State Electricity
Commission of Queensland, 127 Eagle St., Brisbane.
• Loan securities are fully negotiable and can be
converted to cash at any time.
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
Melbourne and Sydney
relations with America ; but it
.does nothing to solve the pro-
blem of Cyprus itself or to heal
the dangerous crack which has
appeared in a highly exposed
comer of the Nato shield. The
possibility of enlisting Nato’s
help in solving the political pro-
blems of Cyprus has been widely
canvassed and, whatever the
difficulties, however doubtful the
prospect of success, something of
the sort still seems well worth
trying.”
On a rather more urgent note,
C. L. Sulzberger, “New York
Times” foreign-affairs writer,
comments that “some form of
settlement must be found
swiftly” before the Arabs —who
“see Cyprus as threatening their
independence while W estern
troops are there” —complicate
the present issues with demands
for demilitarisation of the
island:
“Certainly the Arab-Asian
and Soviet blocs in the U.N.
would vote to deprive the island
of military facilities regardless
of who owns it.
“Such a commitment would
weaken Nato. For, although
Cyprus lacks decent harbors, it
is the only available military
centre remaining in the hands of
any Nato Power off the eastern
Mediterranean shores.”
A Wee Drop
If those who have lately had
difficulty in latching on to a
bottle of Scotch find it hard to
believe the information —from
London “Economist” that
“there are 190-million proof
gallons in casks cramming the
Scottish distilleries,” their feel-
ings can be nothing compared
with the “thirsty British drinker”
who is allowed only six-million
gallons.
The drought began, of course,
in 1939; but, the “Economist”
notes, recent prophecies on the
breaking of it have been made
on good grounds:
“Scotch - whisky production
and stocks have been increasing
rapidly since the end of the war.
By 1949 production had climbed
back to the 1938 level of some
28- to 30-million gallons a year.
By 1952 stocks were as large
as in 1938, and they were still
growing. Of course they were
ill-balanced: much of the
whisky was„ young. But it
looked as if there would be
enough by 1955 or 1956 to meet
demand at current prices.
“What upset this nice calcu-
lation was an unforeseen increase
in demand, which roughly kept
pace with increasing supplies —
but some distance ahead of
them. In 1951-52 (April to
March) overseas sales were 11.2-
million gallons, more than in
1939-40. Since then they have
risen to 15.4 million in 1955-56.
“Few people in the trade had
foreseen such an increase;
moreover, they also failed to
anticipate the expansion in home
demand. As recently as 1952-53
home consumption was only 3.8-
million gallons, barely more
than half the seven-million a
year immediately before the
war. Yet some in the industry
could see little hope of the
home market expanding to
much beyond four - million
gallons unless the price could
be reduced by a cut in the duty.
“The duty has not been cut;
it is still £1 4s. 7d. a bottle;
moreover, the retail price has
gone up from £1 15s. to £1 16s.
Yet consumption had risen to
5.8-million gallons in 1955-56,
and it will probably exceed six-
million gallons in the year
ending March [1957].”
With this increasing demand,
the “Economist” adds, distillers
“have stepped-up production
and piled-up stocks”:
“Annual production has grown
from 29-million gallons in
1949-50 to nearly 39-million in
1954-55. Stocks have soared
from 138-million gallons in
1952 to 181-million in March
[1956], 186-million in September
[1956], and around 190-million
today, a third more than before
the war. This promises higher
saleable supplies in the next few
years.”
Allowing seven years for the
yearly output since 1950 to
mature, the “Economist” calcu-
lates the quantities of mature
Scotch available for sale in the
next six years to be:
Million gallons
1957 24
1958 .. 221
1959 25
1960 22
1961 27
1962 32
The destination of a consider-
able portion of that golden
flood is indicated by export-
figures for 1955, in which year
the U.S., the largest overseas
market, took eight-million gal-
lons out of a total export of
16-million gallons.
After the U.S., the “Econo-
mist” comments, “the second-
largest buyer of Scotch is
Europe, with about one-million
gallons last year. In Norway,
Sweden and Finland, State
monopolies fix a high price ; in
France, Norway, Denmark and
Spain quotas restrict imports.
Some of these restrictions would
be abolished in the European
common market.
“The third-largest buyer,
Canada (850,000 gallons),
restricts imports through the
higher mark-up fixed by the pro-
vincial Liquor Commissioners
for Scotch than for Canadian
whiskies. New Zealand (700,000
gallons), Australia (600,000
gallons) and South Africa
(570,000 gallons) have also im-
posed restrictions of various
kinds.”
After which, no doubt, the
“thirsty British drinker,” with
mixed thoughts on patriotism,
export-markets and dollar-earn-
ings, will hope that there’s a wee
drap left over.
Shipbuilding
Commenting on Britain’s loss
of position as the world’s largest
producer of ships —Japan took
the lead in 1956—“ Manchester
Guardian” suggests that “this
small blow to our [Britain’s]
prestige should not be taken
too seriously”:
“Simple totals of tonnages
fail to take account of the
different kinds of work done in
shipyards. Whereas a high
proportion of the output from,
British yards is still in passenger
and cargo liners that involve a
good deal of fitting-out, Japan
has mairily been producing large
tankers and bulk dry-cargo
carriers which are of a simpler
construction.
“More disturbing is the failure
of the British industry even to
sustain its 1955 level of output
in a year that has brought new
production records for most
other shipbuilding nations.
Output in the industry as a
whole was 130,000 tons less than
in 1955, and the Clyde experi-
enced its poorest year since
1953.”
Listing some of the main
causes for “the industry lagging
behind when there is so much
work waiting to be done,” the
“Manchester Guardian” adds
that “Shortage of steel is un-
doubtedly one important answer.
The shipyards cannot get as much
steel plate as they could use, and
what supplies they get often
arrive in the wrong order, so
that production is held up until
the missing parts are delivered.
“Labor relations in the ship-
yards are notoriously bad, and
this has been a rather Worse year
than most for pointless stoppages
and demarcation disputes.
“The employers cannot
altogether escape blame. Ship-
builders are not among the most
enlightened employers in their
attitude to labor. But the unions
must take the larger share of
responsibility. -
“They would be wise to take
what has happened this year as
a warning; and not to be deluded
by the appearance Of ample
order-books.” •
Various Voices
“Ted.” Leather, British M.P.:
“[The British Government’s
action in Egypt] has succeeded in
doing what ten weary years of
negotiation with Washington
failed to do —namely, to convince
the Americans they can no longer
be our allies in Europe, and our
enemies the moment they cross
the Turkish border.”
Mr. Nehru: “[lndia’s policy
of] non-alignment does not mean
passivity of mind or action, lack
of faith or conviction. It does
not mean submission to what we
consider evil. It is a positive and
dynamic .approach to such
problems that confront us.”


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A "must” for all
housewives—if you want
to keep them up to the
mark—are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, "gar-
dening and "help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
“Our return to Sydney !’’ Red
spluttered froth and put his beer
down.
“In all honesty I must tell you
something. The ’cellist plunked
the low notes for me. A clever
fellow. But you mustn’t tell any-
one ! ”
“To hell, with the ’cellist!
What’s this about Sydney?”
“Strangely enough, your
problem has been solved. But
the solution must be applied at
the seat of the trouble. More
on that later, eh?”
“Yes, a lot more on it,” Red
said. The bar was a bad place.
“What happens now?” he said.
“You do,that trick every night?”
“I do. Also some patter with
a pygmy comic. Bugsie, bless his
heart, intends to see to it that by
the end of the week I’m rough-
spotless. An idea; perhaps, to
put this in your pocket. Always
a pity, if you do meet the men,
to have no visible means.”
“From the show?”
“A modest advance. But a
formidable help. You can
mentally put the seat back in
your pants.”
“With a fiver I certainly can.”
“And now we change our
address” ...
“Once again?”
“Once again. Have you left
anything at the Waldorf?”
“A satchel.”
“Better get it, if it remains
ungotten. The police keep a
fatherly eye on the Waldorf.
There, they feel you’re one of the
family. I have to go back to
the theatre. See you here at
five?”
r T'HEY moved into a hotel
favored by troupers. Several
of Spike’s song-busters were
there; and in this exotic
company there was nothing
unusual about Benny. He
introduced Red as “Mac” to a
circle in the small lounge. The
long, thin girl wore long, thin,
black slacks, a black sweater, a
scarf turbanning her tiny head,
and held a long, thin glass of
beer.
“When do I get to iron your
pants, honey?” she asked Benny,
“My dear woman—what can I
wear while you do that?”
“Keep your big brown eyes
off mine, man!” said a midget
whose cuffs barely showed under
a long-draped tartan sports-coat.
“Take a long bath,” said the
girl. And then, to Red, “You
bring ’em down, Mac.”
“You’re certainly among
friends,” Red said in their room.
He took the pants back to the
girl.
Later he went along to>» the
show. It was fast and funny. A
slick mixture of music and
vaudeville with overtones of
madness. Benny’s brief
gambollings were links in the
lunatic pattern. Red was amazed
at how smoothly he’d been
absorbed into the show. No
mug, this Bdgsie.
Red had a confused feeling
that he, too, was being absorbed
into some crazy world removed
from reality. Where the hell was
he headed? What the hell was
Benny flaying at? Play-acting?
All this about solutions in
Sydney! The bloke seemed to
live in a dream. And the dream
had Red by the ankles like
quicksand. By God he’d get
something solid from Benny back
at the pub !
He did. Benny sat on his bed
still in the stage-togs they’d
found him. Huge white tuxedo
jacket, maroon bow-tie, black
pants.
“It’s quite simple,” he said.
“The show flies to Sydney on
Sunday and opens there Tues-
day. Air-terminals bring on my
hay-fever. We’ll drive.”
“Sy dn ey ! , God, man,
listen”
“You listen to me,” Benny
said, waving a stern, school-
masterly finger. “It’s murder
you’re worried about,
remember?”
“Two murders—that tobac-
conist’s, and mine!”
“Murder, anyway. You’re red-
hot all over Australia. As safe
in Sydney as anywhere.”
“Safe in Sydney! Johnnie’s in
Sydney!”
“So he is—so you’re safer in
Sydney. That’s, where we put
Johnnie in your shoes! D’you
like it?”
“Like it! You don’t know
Johnnie! I do!”
“I do know Johnnie now, and
you don’t! Those slapstick
ttirnabouts, remember?
Remember the plot!”
Subterranean chuckles and the
cherubic grin. “You’re so weak
in confidence I’d lose my own
if I confided in you! ” said Benny.
“And I suppose. we tally-ho
into Sydney in a red-hot car!”
Red snarled.
“Definitely!”
Red did more thinking than
sleeping. Thinking that, of all
the impossibilities stacking up
around him, getting to Sydney in
hot cars took top place. Getting
to Sydney. Yes, Benny was right.
One town was as hot as another.
This one had served every
purpose except as a springboard.
His thoughts channelled at last,
pointed at one possibility.
"aND how’s the most sought-
-after young man of the
day?” Benny greeted him in the
moraing.
“I’m taking the day off/’ Red
said. “Been overdoing things.
Working too hard.”
“What ?” Benny sat up in bed
and looked across the room at
Red. “H’mmm! A changed
man! So you’ve reared up and
made a decision. That’s splendid!
Disastrous or not, it’s better than
what you’ve been doing. A
healthy and rewarding thing to
see! Where are you going?”
“Window-shopping.”
“An indication of optimism,
and the death-knell of despair!”
Red returned twenty-four
hours later, took his shoes off,
stretched out and slept. He woke
to a rattle of crockery. The long,
thin, black slacks stood by his
bed. ;
“Keeping show-hours!” she
said. “You’ve sure slipped into
the routine, honey. Here’s some
coffee and eggs.”
“I can use ’em.”
He looked at his watch. Mid-
day.
“How’s Benny?”
“Say—he’s a natch as a comic.
Went fine last night. He’s
around.”
“Good. Thanks for this.”
’“See you!”
' Benny came in. “I hear you’re
going to live!” he said.
“Not necessarily,” Red said.
“Our plans are altered. Make
way for a man who is crazy.”
“I’m listening.” Benny sat
down and leaned forward,
sausage-fingers spread on his
knees. He seemed to be sniffing
the air.
“Thing about you,” Red said,
“when you make a move, off-
the - hook, spur-of-the-moment
or whatever, you’ve felt around
first. You’re a bit of a cat.
You’ve sucked me in about
Sydney. But we’re not hot-
rodding across! We’re not steal-
ing cars. That’s a thousand ways
to get caught. Ships? I don't
know what goes on there. I
don’t know the ins. And like
cars you can be caught anywhere
along the line. Right?”
“So-so.”
“I’m with you about the air-
ports—they’ll expect me to move
now things have cool e d.
Routine-watch on usual channels
will still be pretty sharp. So
we’ll fly across Saturday night
after your show, but not by the
usual channels.”
Benny studied Red for a long
moment, lips pursed, a spark in
his eyes. “What’s cra?y about
that?” he said. “Once in the
air, no one to stop us!”
“I’m rusty,” Red said. “I’m a
risk. But I’ve been out there
studying the stuff available, the
whole set-up. They run motors
half the night out there. A help
if anything. Our kite’s parked
ih the open. We just get in
and go, straight from the apron.
No lights, no rtin-up, no nuttin’.
If the motor catches and we miss
everything we’re off!”
“To see the wizard!” Benny
was beaming.
“Tanks were full last night.
I’ll give everything another
once-over on Saturday. There
are Commonwealth police to
watfh, your weight to watch.
Wish we could t distribute you
around a bit. Have to juggle you
about till she trims right. Tanks
full, she might just get there with
a tailwind. Might have to belly-
land short.”
“In the dark?”
“Yes, close on daylight. She’s
nippy, this one. Wheels come up.
We’ll wear old togs, bring some
fishing-stuff packed up and a
sugarbag.”
“My, my !” said Benny.
■OVEN Benny was cold. Several
times he’d appealed against
the altitude, but Red was
adamant.
In the four-seat cabin the only
light was a pale-green glow on
the instruments. Benny over-
flowed the bucket-seat on Red’s
right and bulked against the
stars. He’d have liked a cigarette,
but Red hadn’t smoked, He’d
have liked to get the numbness
out of his cramped backside.
Even to read the instruments
like Red, but they didn’t talk
Benny’s language.
Tedious travelling, thiSi He’d
rather have his foot hard down
in a stolen Holden, leaning
against her as she squealed on
the bends, using his weight to
hold her down —that was fun for
you! That time the Dutchman
had fluffed and hit the brakes on
a corner and she’d slid on her
back like a beetle—out before
the dust settled and running and
no shelter in sight and the cop
with the gun yelling “Stop!”
He’d stopped, all right six-
months that time. Benny giggled
and Red looked across.
“All right?”
“Lovely! ” Benny screamed
back.
Red was slumped in his seat
easy like a drover in a saddle.
Like riding a bike, this —you
never forgot. Lucky break with
the weather. About three-tenths
cloud down at five-thousand and
l bit of a tailwind. Nice little
kite. Best thing would be ditch
her close in and swim ashore,
barring accidents. Dispose of
her all right, but a bastard of a
thing to do. No, to hell with
that. . .
TTERE and there a thin
spatter of lights moved
slowly below like stars.
Red shifted his eyes from
them, turned up the glow on the
panel and leaned over the strip-
map. Turned to the last fold,
flapped it in Benny’s face and
grinned. About time, too. By
the look of the gauge they’d soon
be running on the smell of it.
Throttle back, prop a fluttering
shadow, they sank whistling and
sighing towards the sea.
“No talking now!” Red
shouted, loud in the new silence.
Benny rubbed his hands, peering
ahead. There was light growing
out there, but darkness below.
Sydney sprawled north on Red’s
left.
“Belt, Benny!”
“OK.”
' “It’ll be sudden —arms over
your face!”
“0.K.”
Out over the sea now—turning
back —Port Hacking, Cronulla,
Kurnell and the bay, all where
they should be. Bloody dark.
Thank God for street-lights!
Line-up on the surf. Here she
comes, here’s the beach, flaps
down. Beach running beneath
her old belly — boomp, slither
. . . ker-hrunch !
“ANY luck?” said the ticket-
clerk through his grille. He
still looked half asleep.
“Wet feet and no fish!” Red
told him.
“You Can have it for mine in
winter,” the clerk said. They
walked through on to the plat-
form. It was dark and almost
deserted. Down here the world
hadn’t yet turned to the sun. Six
by the station clock. Red put
his watch forward.
“Just in time for the work-
man’s special!” Benny said.
“It’s Sunday, remember? May
as well take these rods to bits
now.”
“Pity about our gallant little
aeroplane.”
“Why? Only the usual belly-
landing dents—prop, and a few
bits and pieces underneath.
Wheels-down she’d have stuck
her head in like an ostrich. We
wouldn’t be walking away.”
“May I take this opportunity
of saying I think you did a
damn’ good night’s work?”
“Don’t you think I’m proud
of it?”
They got aboard the electric-
train for the city. A good feeling,
with the beach village still un-
aroused. Red supposed some
stray fisherman had seen the
exhaust spitting or heard some-
thing, but it would take time to
sort the thing out. He felt now
they’d had incredible luck. He
was dog-weary, half-deaf . .
Benny let him snore on and
blinked into the sunrise with
gratitude.
AAONDAY morning’s papers
IT* had it, front page. One
splashed a big question-mark
over a couple of pictures. The
plane standing unbent at
Adelaide; the plane flat on the
sand, Sydney, A tug-o’-war team
was shown all set to drag her
away from the tide. The query
gave the gist of the story. No
clues.
“Neat,” Red commented,
“Neat and tidy. Now what?”
He was sloshing about at the
washbowl, shaving his skull. They
had a room in the borderland
between Woolloomooloo and the
Cross.
“Now what!” said Benny,
“Wind up your affairs. Throw
the pie. That’s what!”
“Aren’t you warm in New
South?”
“Not Sydney so much. Around
Lismore, Murwillumbah. My
fame overlapped from Queens-
land. We’ve returned to the
scene of your crime. We’re going
to snuggle right up to it. I like
my scenes cosy. Incidentally,
your baldpate looks perfect this
morning. Shines like a mirror,
or a crystal ball! I see a dark
stranger! How long since you
had a fish dinner?”
TT was early dusk when they
* walked into the neon-lit
swirl of the Cross. Benny
ambled along gaily, taking it in,
using about half of the pave-
ment. Red sneaked a look at
him, trying to read him. Red
liked nothing about this
promenade. It was like eating
cheese in a mousetrap. Pointless.
Benny, paused at the fish cafe
and scanned an ill-written menu
in the window. There were about
nine or ten tables in Ferrari’s
place, three of them occupied.
Benny padded well down towards
the rear and squeezed into a
chair with his back to the wall.
Red sat down opposite.
“The Cross can do better than
this,” he told Benny.
“Scene of the crime! Grilled
flounder?”
“Suits me.”
“Relax and enjoy this —don’t
gawk around.”
“I won’t!”
Ferrari shuffled over for the
order and stood wiping his hands
on his apron.
“Two grilled flounder,”
Benny said, and asked Ferrari
about the men’s toilet. Ferrari
flapped a hand towards the rear.
“Pasta kitchen.”
Benny came back in a minute
or two and sat down. “Mine
greasy host doesn’t know you
now!” he said, and chuckled
deep down inside.
“Don’t giggle like that—you’ll
have the bloody table over!”
“It is a tight fit. Never mind
—here it comes like Scrooge's
pudding! Quick service!”
“Half-cooked from yesterday,”
Red grunted.
As Ferrari put the fish down
Benny caught his eye, then
flicked a startled glance over
Ferrari’s shoulder.
“Red Leary!” he said. It hit
Ferrari like a bullet. He
stiffened, crouched over the table,
eyes still on Benny. One hand
slid nervously under his jacket.
He appeared to be scratching his
armpit.
“Don’t shoot!” Benny
screamed.
Ferrari took a line from
Benny’s eyes, whirled and fired.
T3ENNY shot to his feet and
** followed the table over on
Red and Ferrari. There were
moments of chaos. Red suddenly
felt himself yanked to his feet
and hauled through a crashing
of tables. He caught a glimpse
of a kitchen, a short corridor, a
door wrenched open, and he was
running in a black lane with
Benny.
“Town Hall station,” Benny
told the cabby.
“Sure thing.”
The cab swooped to the city.
They walked a couple of blocks
to a hotel, and upstairs. Long
black slacks and sweater and
doll’s head opened the door.
“Benny! And you, honey!
Come on in!”
TN the morning she returned to
* her room. “That’s the last
time I’ll sleep with Elvira!” she
said. “That girl don’t lie still
a minute. You boys go get an
apartment. When I get back
from the bathroom I want to
walk around in my skin.”
She swept up a towel and
departed.
Red hunched forward in the
armchair and held his head in
his hands.
“Sore, eh?” Benny said.
“Cracked like an egg.”
“Could be a touch of concus-
sion: It wears off, you know.”
“If it gets time! God Almighty,
Benny, where are we now? In
deeper than ever!”
“In the clear!”
“What? After that bloody
shambles last night!”
“Ho, hum.” Benny lurched
from the bed and got the paper.
“I see Mr. Ferrari sustained two
broken legs in a fracas during
which a shot was fired.” ,
“That’s a mighty queer injury.”
“Police connect the incident
with the recent fatal shooting of
tobacconist Joseph Stokes.”
“That’s nice!”
“Nice? It’s perfect! Ferrari
is under police-guard at a city
hospital. Lovely,. lovely,
lovely !”
“What the hell’s got into you,
Benny?”
“Don’t you see? He can’t
move —he can’t shave ! He can't
shave the top of his head! My,
oh, my, the police will be sur-
prised. Shambling, bespectacled,
straggly-whiskered, bald-headed
Mr. Ferrari, whose shop is near
the late Mr. Stokes’s, and who
furnished the police with Mr.
Leary’s description, turns into
sleek, smooth, black - haired
Sicilian gunman and bank-
robber Johnnie Giuffrida, with a
known grudge against said Mr.
Leary!
“Of course, an anonymous
phone-call would prepare the
Force for. this unexpected
development. Oh, what a pie-
thrower I’d make! Don’t miss
Mutt-and-Jeff next Wednes-
day”. . .
“Let’s get out quick,” Red
said, jamming his hat over his
baldness. “She’ll be back walking
round in her skinl”


BOA
FINEST SERVICE PLUS FASTEST AIRLINER
NOW NON-STOP ACROSS THE ATLANTIC
STARTING JANUARY, 1957,
8.0.A.C. will progressively introduce
their magnificent new DC-7C airliners
on First Class services London-New
York and New York-London non-stop.
Soon DC-7Cs will operate on
Tourist Class services also. This long-
range 8.0.A.C. airliner will offer the
fastest trans-Atlantic travel plus luxury
and service rivalling the finest hotels.
You’ll be delighted with the quiet,
vibration-free travel . , . the spaciously
designed cabins, with their foam-soft
seating and handsome furnishings and
decor ... the magnificent food and
wines ... the friendly personal service
for which 8.0.A.C. is famous. And
the DC-7C is equipped with the latest
radar for fair-weather flying all the way.
Book “8.0.A.C. plus DC-7C !”
Information and reservations from all leading Travel Agents and
Qantas Empire Airways Limited, (8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia).
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS. TEAL AND S.A.A
A6B/AU*
\
k
Fcuih in iFe
Future
When I „hear people say that Australia will
support so many millions “and no more,” I begin
to wonder how they came by their calculation.
It is unwise to judge tomorrow by the standards
of yesterday.
With all honour to the name of the great
Captain James Cook for his discovery of eastern
Australia in 1770, we have to admit that the estimate
he and his colleagues formed on this continent, on
their brief sight of it. was not at all high.
They couldn’t possibly have envisaged
Australia as it is today. They simply didn’t know
what lay beyond the shimmerings of coral, or what
was hidden by the blue ranges that reared behind
the seaboard.
And so with those who would place a mental
limit now on Australia’s productiveness and
population.
Have they taken account of the coming of
atomic power and all it can mean in bringing
energy into the interior? Have they counted the
advances in science that give to poorer soils, by
the addition of trace elements, a rich productive
balance? Do they know of the researches being
made in the inducement of rain, the increasing use
to which the rays of the sun are being put in the
attraction of power and the condensation of water?
These ure only some of the current signs of
how much more yielding the Earth will be in years
to come; not only for Australia but for lands
stretching from Pole to tropics and down to Pole.
In discovery, in knowledge, in fleeter
movement, the work of employing God’s creation
goes on. All the changes and all the hopes must
be upward; unlimited by hesitancy and doubt,
unbounded by fear.
And our Australian part in it is to press on
faithfully with the job of nation-building; taking
advantage of every modern aid the world has to
offer; adding the most we can, in our time, to a
Future that dares all prophecy.
//
ee'i
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Globe Derby s
Greatness, by E. V. Dullard. 6449.
To buy copy of “The National
Geographic Magazine” for Febiuaiy,
1949.-6450.
To buy books of illustrations by
David Low and Phil May. —6451.
To buy hard-cover copiss of the
following: Sierra Leone Story
(Gervis), Jungle Pimpernel (Rhys),
Yucca City Outlaw (Hopson).—64s/.
Information Sought
(1) By what route and methods did
Lieut.-General Bennett escape from
Singapore in World War II ?‘ (2) Was
his escape justified ?
(1) Lieut.-General H. Gordon
Bennett was the general officer com-
manding the Australian Imperial
Force in Malaya. With the
knowledge of his staff he got away
in a tongkan soon after the cease-
fire (2030hr5., Feb. 15, 1942) which
surrendered Singapore to the
Japanese. He was accompanied in
his flight by his adjutant, Major
Charles Moses, and his aide-de-camp,
Lieut. Gordon Walker. On Feb. 19,
off Sumatra, they transhipped from
the slow-moving tongkan to a last
launch, the Tern, which took them
200 miles up the Djambi River to
Djambi (Sumatra), a Dutch centre of
government. From there they went
overland by motor-truck to Padang.
on the western coast, thence flying*
by Catalina to Batavia. From there,
Moses and Walker having to be left
behind (they came on later), Bennett
went on to Tjilatjup, on the south
coast of Java, flew from there to
Broome (arrived Feb. 27) and later
flew south. (2) Bennett’s views, as
expounded in his book Why
Singapore Fell (1944), were that, by
his escape, he brought back to Aus-
tralia valuable lessons to be used in
the later fighting against the Japanese.
He wrote two pamphlets shortly after
his return on the means of counter-
ing Japanese methods, one being
republished as an official document
and the other being used, he claimed,
as a basis of new . tactics on the
Kokoda trail and on the advance to
Buna and Gona. In April, 1942,
General Bennett was appointed
G.O.C. 3rd Aust. Army Corps, but
was retired from the Army in April,
1944. In October, 1945, a military
board of inquiry %as convened by
General Blarney to investigate his
escape from Malaya, but, a public
inquiry being demanded in some
quarters, Federal Cabinet _(
appointed Mr. Justice k'S .
Royal Commissioner to investigate
(Nov 1945). The Royal Com-
missioner’s finding (delivered aru
1946) was that Genera Bennett s
escape was “not justified
relinquishing his command cm leaving
Singapore, General Bennett did no
have the permission of any competent
authority There was, m fact, no
competent authority who could give
him such permission... .He
the position of a soldier whose
commanding-officer [Lieut .-General
Percival. G.O.C. Malaya] had agreed
to surrender him. 1 think it was
General Bennett’s duty + to have
remained in command oi tne a.i. •
until the surrender was complete
But the commissioner also lound tliat
General Bennett genuinely believed
that Australia was in peril and tha
it was of vital importance for its
safety that he should return to take
a leading part in its defence. His
escape, which was inspired by
patriotism, was “a hazardous entei-
prise and involved no reflection on
General Bennett s personal couiage.
(Articles on the Bennett inquiry
appeared on The Bulletin s
“Serviceman” pages, Dec. 5, Dec. u
and Dec. 19, 1945, and Jan. 9, 1946.)
* * * *
(1) Some details about Hitlers
“Night oj the Long Knives” ? (2)
Where did that name for the purge
come from ? . ,
(1) This purge was a blow designed
bV Hitler to destroy the S.A. (Storm
Troops, or Brownshirts —a uniformed
body which had helped him in his rise
to power but had outlived its useful-
ness) and to get rid of some of its
leaders and other real or suspected
enemies. Most of the executions (by
firing-squad) took place on the night
of June 30, 1934. How many were
shot is not known for certain even
now, but they included General von
Schleicher (a former Chancellor ot
Germany) and his wife, Capt. Roehm
(commander of the Storm Troopers),
Gregor Strasser (the actual founder
of the Nazi party), Herr von Bose,
secretary to Von Papen (anothei
former Chancellor), and other Stoim
Troop leaders. In a speech to the
Reichstag on July 13, 1934 Hitler
said 77 had been executed, while
several others had suicided, and
described a plot to overthrow the
Government —“with an iron list [he
had] beaten down the attack before
it developed.” (British and other
overseas papers were somewhat
sceptical of the plot —the “limes
said Hitler’s account of the con-
spiracy “carries no conviction, while
the “News-Chronicle said the story
of the plot was “full of contradic-
tions.” However, it seems likely
that Roehm and some of the others
were in fact bent on furthering their
own ambitions, at the expense o
either Hitler himself or other Nazi
leaders —Roehm and Goering were old
enemies—but some of the victims
were plainly innocent, and died with
“Heil Hitlers” on their lips.) . (2) in
his July 13 speech to the Reichstag,
Hitler used the phrase for the first
time relating to the purge. Capt.
Roehm formed terrorist groups ol
hardened criminals. He pretende
that the object of the second revolu-
tion [i.e., the plot according to Hitler ,
the first revolution was the Nazis
co'ming-to-power m Jan., 1933] on
the ‘night of the long knives was to
restore ...” The phrase is taken
from one of the earliest marching-
songs of the Nazis.
Brief Answers
K.M.F.: “Who shall decide when
doctors disagree?” is from P°P e s
“Moral Essays,” Epistle Hi, Lme i.
G R.T.: Melt 8)lb. crude Vaseline
and lilb. yellow-beeswax; pour mto
Seals, 'kerosene, stirring all the time.
Paint on to the canvas with a brush.
Sufficient for 40 sq.yds. canvas....
LH : (From the N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture.) Wheat-germ oil is
usually obtainable from a
pharmaceutical chemist. In case it is
intended to use the oil for nutritional
purposes, it is advised that puie
wheat-germ oil is rather expensive
and is inclined quickly to become
rancid. People requiring wheat-
germ oil in their diet are usually
advised to eat the milled wheat-germ
cereal-foods available (e.g., Wheat-
Harts), this being a more economical
source of the oil than the extracted
form... .T.R.G.: (1) The .total area
of crops in N. S. Wales in 1955-56
was 5,456,000 acres—62,ooo acres
more than in the previous year. The
record area under crops was 7,168,0UU
acres in 1947-48. .(2) The area of
wheat sown for gram in 1955-56 was
2,937,000 acres, from which a yield ol
57,149.000 bushels was obtained.
Because of unfavorable weather-
conditions, the intended area was not
sown in the 1956-57 season. Prelimin-
ary estimates are 1,713,000 acres of
wheat 1 sown for grain ; harvest,
29,000,000 bushels. (3) The area sown
in rice in 1955-56 was 41,182 acres—
highest ever recorded ; it exceeded the
previous record area (in 1943-44) by
492 acres. The season’s estimated
production was 4,725,000 bushels—
-355,000 bushels less than the record
yield of 1954-55,
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted,
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Edijor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary .
H.S.: You rhyme wildly and lack
humor; also the poem is a bit
unsteady on its numerous feet, like
an intoxicated centipede...-M.T.S.:
The variety of poem that merely
wonders if the island palm-trees still
rustle when the wind blows, or if the
milk-jug is still put out on the back
doorstep at 11 p.m., is generally a
tiresome thing... .J.M.: Five closely
typewritten pages about a stout lady
straightening her hat and climbing
aboard a Bondi .bus cast into exterior
darkness... .A.M.A.: It is a dreary,
aimless poem, and it fetches up
nowhere, half-swamped with grief.
J.F.: In one stanza you suddenly
become very Scotch and call home
“hame” to-get a rhyme for “fame.”
..i.An unknown contributor (no
pen-name, no proper name, no
address —nothing but the wild, wild
poem and a second-hand pin): Poem
about the alligator was an awful flop.
H.M.N.: Still recovering from
our encounter with the wild Irishman
from Piper's Flat.... F.S.D.:
Sentimental jailbird now imprisoned
in a wickerwork receptacle... .H.J.:
More a dissertation on Chinese cook-
ing than a short story a. a. .
Gentleman who stole the parsons
Christmas beer was admonished by
tbe Religious Editor.... W.8.Y.:
Sorry, but your tangled story ot
embezzlement will not earn you a
Bulletin cheque... .E.F.S.: Sampled
your poem in praise ol mashed
potatoes and found it not to our
liking... J.J.O’M.: The girl m the
Bikini was clad in an envelope and
sent home... .G.J.McK.: Opium-
smoking police-commissioner was
sentenced to the basket... .G.K.. •
Guy meets doll —doll says no guy
jumps over Gap—doll jumps over
bridge—no thank you D.J.: Story
of how Father Flynn won the pig in
the church-raffle has been told before.
R S T.: Not bidding for the rain-
bow, nor for the moonbeams....
L M.: “Lines Written While Suffering
a Christmas Hangover” merely added
to our own suffering... .D.McL.:
Nothing epic about Sandy McTavish
and Jock McGregor’s pub-crawl....
A.McK. (New York): Pleased to note
that the girls on Bondi beach axe as
shapely as the sirens of Coney Island.
. .J.E.R.: Received 1 eng thy
narrative, based on your dislike of
pumpkin. Unfortunately the stoiy
itself is not worth a
F W.H.: “The Booligulla Express
ran off the rails ... .A.J.G.: ‘‘The
Intoxicated Oyster” was a promising
title for a poem, but you disappoint
expectations by not finding a rhyme
foioyster... .J.F.: Not in the market
for parody of Adam Lindsay
Gordon’s “The Sick Stockrider ....
H.L.E.: Such copperplate hand-
writing always a pleasure to read, but
the verse not up to the mar K....
C T T.: “Life’s Cobwebs _ vanished
at the sight of the charlady’s broom.


V
Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30.% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Oa, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
I
OS
CM
V*
ntoo*
BOH®
t'**’*'
W%
‘dii€a£(k.
STERILISED '
BONE FLOUR
65% TRLCALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any parHcalara gladly tuppHad—
Writ, to DAVIS GELATINE: 6AO. 8m JSB*.
SYDNEY • GAO. to. 4058. MELBOURNE • GAO.
to. 712 F. ADELAIDE • GAO. to. 75tK. BRISBANE
• SAO Be. 588. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
GRAZIERS UNDER MICROSCOPE
TUST about everything, from
J the nocturnal habits of
ruminants to those of the
American male, having been
scientifically investigated of
late years, it seems only fair
that the grazier should have
his turn. J. L. Dillon, Economics
Research Officer, has done a
thorough job of that member of
the species whose habitat is the
south-west slope of New South
Wales. His findings, published
over the past few months in the
N.S.W. “Agricultural Gazette,”
make fascinating, if unspec-
tacular, reading.
All sorts of people are
interested in the grazier—•
particularly in what he does with
his money. An eminent
economist who visited The
Bulletin last year confessed
curiosity concerning this aspect
of the subject, and mentioned
a few of the difficulties of
research. Financially, it seems,
the grazier is a shy, elusive
creature.
What, for instance, have the
great majority of graziers done
with the money they have made
since the war? A complete
answer was difficult, said the
expert—in the exasperating
manner of experts so many
trails to be followed, so much
conflicting data to be reconciled.
But when all was said and
done it appeared that the bulk
of established graziers had paid-
off outstanding mortgages,
bought properties for their sons,
bought a procession of new
cars, and so on, but had not
invested elsewhere to any great
extent. Investments in the stock-
exchange were “insignificant.”
Where, then, was the surplus
money? By and large, in local
banks, on fixed deposit.
But to return to Mr. Dillon’s
investigations—
Recent years have witnessed
significant changes in the high-rain-
fall sheep-areas. Most noticeable
have been the beginnings of a wide-
spread adoption of pasture-improve-
ment, the effects of. myxomatosis,
and a general air of prosperity.
Other changes, perhaps not so
obvious but certainly important,
have been the increasing use of
mechanical equipment (ranging from
tractors through to electric-drills), a
decline in the isolation of the
individual farm, with consequent
better availability of amenities —of
which the increased educational
opportunities available to country
children may be the most important
in the long run—and the influx of
soldier-settlers. Nor are these
changes anywhere complete.
The above applies, it seems,
particularly to the eastern part
of the south-west slopes
Gundagai, Tumut, Tumbarumba,
Holbrook.
A hundred - and - fifly
Shearing shock
amongst sheep causes
thousands of deaths
every year. To check
these fatalities shorn
sheep should be pro-
tected from wind for
at least four or five
days after shearing.
For sheep that - have
collapsed one of the
most successful treat-
ments is the adminis-
tration of + oz. of
whisky, brandy or gin
with special warmth
and shelter or rug-
ging- Sheep go
through another crisis
earlier in their lives
when, as lambs, they
are marked and tailed.
At this time the use
of Elastrator Rubber
Rings, rather than a
knife, is advisable to
avoid shock and set-
back and as an effec-
tive method to reduce
the risk of fly-strike.
“randomly-selected” graziers
were interviewed. “Diversity
was a common feature of the
sample.” Properties ranged
from 400 acres to over 22,000
acres, with from one to 14 men
employed, and carrying from
315 to 33,000' “dry-sheep
equivalents.”
For the purposes of the survey,
one Merino, Polwarth or come-
back wether = 1 dry sheep * one
Merino, Polwarth or comeback
ewe and lamb = 1| dry sheep;
one Corriedale, crossbred or
British breed hogget, ewe or
wether = 1| dry sheep; one
Corriedale, crossbred or British
breed lamb = f dry sheep ; one
ram (any breed) = 2 dry sheep;
one mature beef animal = 8
dry sheep; one steer or heifer
= 5 dry sheep ; one weaner calf
=• 3 dry sheep; one milking
cow = 9 dry sheep; one hack
= 8 dry sheep.
The Average Holding
The average holding was of
nearly 2000 acres, employing two
to three men, and running
approximately 3000 dry-sheep
equivalents. However, the most
frequently occurring type of
property was smaller than the
average for the group, which
was weighted by a small
number of large stations. This
commonest type of holding was
between 1000 and 2000 acres,
operated by one man and
carried 1000 to 2000 sheep-
equivalents. This, of bourse, is
the typical “family farm.”
Nine per cent, of the pro-
perties studied were of more
than 5000 acres, 18 per cent,
carried more than 5000 sheep
and 7 per cent, employed at least
five men. Most of these larger
units were also family farms in
the sense that labor was supplied
by the family, with responsi-
bilities and ownership-rewards
shared through partnership-
arrangements.
Among the 150 properties
there were 15 father-son partner-
ships, 10 partnerships between
brothers and six family arrange-
ments of a more complicated
nature.
Although the large station-type
property was unimportant
numerically, it was of major
importance in terms of the land,
labor and capital employed, and
the contribution made to total
production in the area. Seven
per cent, of those interviewed
controlled 27 per cent, of the
total area, 25 per cent, of all
the stock carried and 24 per cent,
of the total work-force.
Size of labor-force was used
for grouping properties because
farms of the same area often
differ sharply in development.
From this method of classifi-
cation some interesting facts
emerge, The one-man properties
are least-intensively farmed.
They have the largest average
area per man and the smallest
number of stock per acre.
The main reasons for this are
that this group includes, a
number of recently-established
soldier-settlers, and also a
number of properties whose
owners are getting on in years.
“Incapacity or eccentricity on
the part of the owner probably
has its most serious effects when
he is the only operator.”
The average area of two-men
properties is no larger than that
of one-man properties. This is
partly explained by the fact that
some of the single-man holdings
are relatively undeveloped, and
will in time employ more than
one man.
If one-man properties are
disregarded the other groups of
properties show little variation
in area per man, sheep per man,
or sheep per acre.
The large station - type
property, employing five or
more men, were stocked just as
intensively, in terms of dry-
sheep equivalent per acre, as the
smaller properties. Per man
they ran more stock than any
of the other groups except the
one-man group.
“However, the large holdings
ran a higher proportion of beef-
cattle, and these do not require
as much attention as sheep.”
True; but, on the other hand,
cattle break fences, and are, in
this respect, often less manage-
able on a small property than
on a large one.
Graziers Since 1940
Sixty-four per cent, of the
graziers visited had taken over
their properties since 1940. In
each of the last five years
approximately 20 per cent, of
the properties had changed
hands. This is somewhat higher
than would normally be
expected, the difference being
due to war-service land-settle-
ment. Slightly more than a
third of these new property-
managers were soldier-settlers.
Soldier-settlers constituted the
major group of newcomers to the
area. It has been found that
immigrants to a district are likely to
be more receptive to new ideas,
because, lacking practical experience
in their new district, they are more
in need of advice and also more likely
to admit that they need advice than
local inhabitants.
Furthermore, following the practice
of their home districts, newcomers
often introduce techniques or
emphasise aspects of management
that have been neglected or not
appreciated by. other farmers born
and bred in the area. As in other
walks of hfe, the entry of people
with different backgrounds and
ideas into an established group pro-
vides a stimulus to the group.
Of the 60 changes in ownership or
management of properties which had
occurred since 1940, 28, or approxi-
mately half, were between family-
members. There were 13 cases of
inheritance or gift, 11 of purchase
from relatives, three of leasing from
relatives, and one of partnership
formation between relatives.
Twenty-seven properties were pur-
chased by persons unrelated to the
vendor, and three salaried managers
were employed. Eighteen of these
30 new operators came from outside
the survey districts.
In general, the graziers whose
range of experience had been
narrowest had also received the least
amount of formal education. The
percentage of graziers interviewed
who had received each type of educa-
tion was as follows: primary, 55 per
cent.; secondary, 40 per cent.; agri-
cultural college, 2 per cent.; uni-
versity, 2 per cent. One grazier had
had no formal education# The pro-
portion of graziers who had receive*!
only primary-school education rose
from 8 per cent, among graziers with
jackerooing, business, professional or
“white-collar” backgrounds to 50 per
cent, among those who had only
slight non-farm experience (mainly
war-service), and to 71 per cent,
among those who had spent all their
lives on the land.
Sons of Farmers
Largest in number, but
smallest in range of experience,
were the sons of farmers and
graziers who worked on their
parents’ properties before com-
mencing grazing on their own
account. In this group of 63
graziers 23 had spent all their
lives on the same property.
The second-largest group (25
graziers) consisted of those
whose rural experience was
identical with that of the first
group (restricted to their parents’
properties), but who had also
had war-service.
Five men had been farm-
workers, usually of a varied kind
(shearing, fencing, general farm-
work), before going on their
own land.
Ten graziers had been rural
laborers before going into the
Services during War 11, and had
since acquired their own
properties. ,
N /? e glaziers, in addition to
working on their parents’
properties, had worked for some
time in town or city as unskilled-
or skilled-laborer; or in an
office.
Another nine graziers men-
tioned that they had spent some
time jackerooing. “Whether
they were of farm or non-farm
background is not clear in all
Thp hav h rdarp-d
. eS< ine y na y e been placed
m , a special category because
jackerooing, in contrast to, say,
farm-laboring, provides an
apprenticeship to the responsi-
bilities of property-manage-
.
Fifteen graziers, mainly of
non-farm background, had been
in busjness _ in s the professions,
- “ w hite-col1ar” iohs Most
or in wmte collar joos. Most
had also had some previous
experience of the land, or had
worked in some business closely
associated with the land —for
instance, wool-firms.
A final group of 14 are
unclassified, either because of
lack of information, or because
they wouldn’t fit into any of
the above categories. Five of
these were of rural background,
three were from overseas.
Beef-cattle constituted 23 per
cent, of the total number of
sheep-equivalents, dairy - cattle
and horses about 3 per cent.,
sheep 74 per cent.
Merinos Most Popular
Merinos were the most
popular sheep, Merino wethers
constituting the largest single
type of sheep. Corriedales next,
then crossbred, comeback, Pol-
warth and British-breeds (mainly
Romney Marsh). But, naturally,
there were variations in districts.
Tumbarumba and Gundagai
had the highest proportion of
Corriedales and crossbreds;
Merinos outnumbered all other
breeds around Tumut (only 20-
odd miles from Gundagai). Hol-
brook had the largest number of
comebacks and Polwarths.
Less than half the flocks were
of a single breed.
A majority of graziers fol-
lowed such management-routines
as classing, treating footrot,
drenching and crutching, but
“there were great differences in
degree to which these practices
were carried out.”
For instance, almost half (46
per cent.) didn’t class their sheep.
A similar proportion did their
own classing, while only 8 per
cent, made use of a professional
classer.
Percentage culled varied, too.
All those who engaged a pro-
fessional classer culled at a rate
greater than 30 per cent.
Forty-two per cent, used rams
costing betweeii 11 and 20
guineas. Eight per cent, paid
more than 30 guineas for their
rams. Everyone interviewed
crutched at .feast once a year.
None had used, “or intend to
use,” the Mules-operation. They
all drenched ewes and lambs for
worms and fluke, but only one-
third used clean paddocks after
drenching. Most inoculated
lambs against pulpy-kidney.
Sixty per cent, left their rams
with the ewes for a period of
six to nine weeks. Very few use
periods of less than six weeks;
3 per cent, leave the rams with
the ewes all the year; 18 per
cent, flushed ewes before mating.
Slightly more than half the
owners with breeding-flocks had
lambing-percentages of less than
70.
Footrot-control was not good:
“The methods (or lack of
methods) of footrot-control on
slightly more than half of the
survey-properties indicated that
the operator did not have a
proper understanding of the
disease. Twenty-two per cent,
of operators did not treat foot-
rot in any way. Their usual


Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jAf’JvSOX
OSUUJVAM
moa
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUJ.”, BRISBANE
solution of the problem was to
sell the infected sheep.
“Of the 78 per cent, who did
treat infected animals, usually
by means of paring and foot-
bath, one-quarter did not use
clean paddocks after treatment.
Only 46 per cent, of all operators
interviewed took posi t i v e
preventive precautions against
footrot entering their properties.
These also treated the disease
when it did exist and used clean
paddocks afterwards.
“That many graziers did not
understand the mode of trans-
mission of footrot was indicated
by the fact that they had a
special paddock for infected
sheep. They did not appreciate
that such a paddock gave the
virus a semi-permanent breeding-
ground on their property.”
Approximately 80 per cent,
of the whole area in grazing-
properties is suitable for pastoral
improvement, either immediately
or after further clearing. Nearly
40 per cent, of this suitable land
(or 34 per cent, of the total
area) has already been sown to
pasture. Tumbarumba leads in
the proportion of suitable land
improved, followed by Hol-
brook and Kyeamba shires;
Tumut and Gundagai have the
smallest proportion.
Bushfire Netting
“Burr Imul”: In this bad
bushfire-season it is w 7 ell to
remember that fewer houses
would be burned if landholders
worried more about safety and
less about appearances. Years
ago it was the custom to surround
the homestead with a high fence
of chicken-wire. It was eminently
functional, but such fences have
been abandoned in recent years
because they’re considered un-
sightly.
In the serious fires which
swept through open grazing-
country in northern Victoria in
January, 1952, it was noticed
that they burned right up to the
chicken-wire round the older
houses, but did not pass through,
while houses unprotected by such
a fence were destroyed.
The explanation is simple.
Fine-mesh netting breaks the
force of the wind and stops wind-
blown embers ; at the same time
it works like a miner’s lamp—
flame will not pass through wire-
mesh.
"Underground Water"
“Spin”: Go easy on that
underground-water, “Lanium”
(B. 2/1 / ’57). The Great Aus-
tralian Basin and “elsewhere”
aren’t inexhaustible, as geologists
have been pointing out for
decades. W.A. provides a case,
or a series of cases, in point.
The first water-supplies in the
big State came from sub-artesian
or artesian aquifers, and often
each suburb had its own bore.
Guildford had one of the best,
and, apart from the town-supply,
there were bores on several of
the big farming properties
around the town, all running
strongly.
But before a dozen were sunk
the town-supply started to
diminish, and the Government
had to forbid any further drain
on the underground-supply;
later it was ordained that if a
bore-casing collapsed it was not
to be repaired or replaced-—the
bore had to be blocked,
was over 50 years ago.
The same is happening to other
aquifers. The bores aren t
running as strongly or rising as
high as they used to, and in
some cases there’s a feeling that
in a prolonged drought the level
could fill dangerously.
There may be districts where
underground-supplies could be
used to greater advantage, but
any project along these lines
should have the sanction and
advice of geologists. One district
could easily use water at
another’s expense.
The Vanishing
Herd-tester
“Aerogenes”: Glad to see
“Agricola” (B. 2/1/’57) thinks
the use of herd-testing is just
commonsense. The great pity
is that it is nowhere near
“c omm o n” at least, in
N. S. Wales. Only about 4 per
cent, of all dairy-cows in'the
State are under produhtion-test.
This is a miserable proportion,
and a serious reflection on the
business acumen of all con-
cerned, not,least on those who
cry loudest for cheap food and
for abundance of exports to
exchange for cars and crooners.
The Government just now is
doing less than nothing to
improve herd-testing and
extend it.
A recent public-service ukase
—that, for the sake of economy,
there shall be no, new appoint-
ments —is playing havoc with
herd-recording. A herd-
recorder’s job is no sinecure.
Pay is poor, conditions are some-
times unpleasant, and there is a
steady loss of personnel by
resignation.
In the absence of replacements,
great gaps are developing in the
programmes. Supervisors are
trying to fill the gaps, to the
neglect of their own duties;
makeshift methods are used
which reduce accuracy; and
there is talk of whole units
having to be closed down.
Farmers who want to join and
begin testing now are out of
luck.
In a matter such as this, which
bears directly on. the efficiency
of farming and on the whole
nation’s ability to compete for
much-needed export-trade, it’s
hard to see how a reduction in
the extent and accuracy of
herd-testing can be an economy.
Winter Wheat
“Boone”: A new winter-wheat
hybrid developed by the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture, is
creating a lot of interest. It is
being tested in north - west
N. S. Wales, where half the 1956
wheat-crop could have been
sown in March and April if a
iust-resistant variety of good
quality had been available.
Winter Minflor —the main
winter-wheat grown now has
the disadvantages of suscepti-
bility to rust, weak straw and
poor grain-quality. If successful,
the new hybrid could lead to a
valuable expansion of winter-
wheat production.
Cobalt Bullets
“Cowboy”: A big advance in
the control of cobalt-deficiency
in sheep has been made with the
development of “bullets” a
baked mixture of cobalt-oxide
and china clay—which C.5.1.R.0.
scientists discovered during the
last 18 months.
When swallowed by the sheep,
the bullets lodge in the stomach
and release enough cobalt for
the animal’s requirements over
a long period.
Although a sheep needs only
one-tenth to one milligram of
cobalt a day (lib. of cobalt-
chloride contains about 110,000
milligrams of cobalt), that
minute quantity is necessary for
the sheep’s health. An animal
soon becomes listless, rheumy-
eyed, and finally fades away to
death if it doesn’t get enough
cobalt.
What is more important, the
beneficial bacteria in the stomach
need cobalt when manufacturing
vitamin-812 fhe vital animal-
growth factor on which U.S.A.
scientists and others have placed
such importance.
Cobalt is needed also to
control “phalaris staggers,” which
often attack sheep in the autumn
and winter after the young
phalaris-plants begin to grow.
In the past these troubles were
met by frequent drenchings with
a solution of Cobalt-salts, but
this is impracticable in large
flocks. Topdressing is too
expensive and short-lived to be
a very practical proposition.
Researchers haven’t been
enthusiastic about salt-licks
containing cobalt as a remedy.
The heavy cobalt-bullets are
cheap (about Id. each) and easy
to administer. One of them can
keep a sheep healthy for many
years. Scientists hope to develop
a bullet which will remain in a
sheep’s rumen for life.
The cobalt dissolves slowly,
but fast enough to provide the
small amount of cobalt needed
for the bacteria to make vitamin-
812
The bullets are made by
mixing cobalt-oxide and clay
into a plastic condition,
extruding the mixture into a
rod, cutting it as in brick-
making, and baking it at
temperatures as high as 900
deg. C.
The cobalt-bullet shows great
promise in solving one aspect of
the weaner problem: it is
thought that young sheep some-
times fail to do as well as they
should because of insufficient
cobalt in the diet.
Cheap at the Price
“Pawnee”: Old cornsacks and
old fruit-cases are comparatively
cheap to buy, but they can be
costly when the damage they
cause to grain and fruit is taken
into account.
Old bags split easily and
scatter grain all over the place.
Loose grain attracts vermin that
can easily destroy a stack and
foul its contents.
Unless fumigated well, old
bags are harbors for weevils,
which soon eat well into the
profits.
How much does it cost every
time the bottom falls out of a
fruit-case? How much fruit is
bruised when rickety cases in a
load allow those on top to “ride”
in? How much fruit is damaged
by old nails tearing it?
If you add the effect of poor
cases on the attitude of a carrier
towards your fruit, then new
casds are cheap, says J. D. F.
Black, of the Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture. Moral :
Patch-up old cases strongly, and
replace any which show any
sign of not standing up to the
rigors of the coming season.
Old wheat-varieties can be
costly, too, if you continue to
grow them when better yields are
available. The bonanza year
when. Free Gallipoli yielded 12
bags to the acre ; when Mac s
White, Steinweidal and Strong-
bolt looked like breaking all
records ; and Federation beat off
all challengers, doesn’t mean
much these days, when Sabre,
Wongoondy, Insignia and Sherpa
fill the bags with what the buyers
pay big money for. Moral:
Grow what your State Depart-
ment of Agriculture recommends.
Chemical for Insects
“Sundowner”: An oil-
company’s production of a new
insecticide, Phosdrin, for dealing
with late-season attacks by
insects on a wide variety of cr ops,
will mean much to the agricul-
turist and market-gardener.
An important attribute of
Phosdrin is that it breaks-down
so fast that it can be used with
safety for man and animals
within one to three days before
harvesting.
Sprayed or dusted on the
plant, the new chemical kills any
insects it hits, and then infiltrates
the plant and travels through the
sap to kill other insects that
have been missed by the cover-
spray.
After a day or two the crop
is safe to harvest. The chemical
is regarded as being particularly
useful for pests of cabbage- and
bean-crops, but has also been
recommended for fruit-trees,
including apples and peaches.
Branding-fluids
“Bilbong”: Tar has cost the
• Australian wool-industry a lot of
money. Used as a brand, the
tar defied the scour and passed
through all processes of manu-
facture, to finish-up as black
spots on the finished cloth.
C.5.1.R.0. started research to
find a branding-fluid which
would come out in the scour and
leave the wool clean and un-
marked.
In 1955 they gave the industry
Si-Ro-Mark, and a recent
report states that ,130,000 gals,
have been sold in less than two
years.
It took a while to straighten-
out those little problems that
crop-up in any new‘discovery,
but C.5.1.R.0. is now in a
position to give solid advice that
should be heeded by all
sheepmen.
When Si-Ro-Mark was first
put on the market it seemed to
vary with changes in tempera-
ture. This was traced to the
lanolin in the formula, and a
good shaking with the lid on
the tin did the trick ; it was not
necessary to stir the mixture.
There is, however, no need
to worry about this now, because
the formula has been altered
slightly, and the consistency
remains the same under a wide
range of temperatures.
Like everything else, there’s
a right and a wrong way to
apply the brand. C.5.1.R.0.
recommends a branding-iron
made from 8-gauge wire, bent
to the desired shape. This is
dipped into the branding-solution
and applied straight to the wool.
The can should be shaken before
using the contents ; if it seems
to be too thick, stand the tin in
hot water for a minute or two.
When the sheep have been
branded, let them out of the pen,
so that they don’t rub against
each other.
C.5.1.R.0. has done the
industry a notably good turn by
giving ''sheepmen this branding-
fluid : it puts tar up on the shelf
with the blades. There’s no
trouble to get Si-Ro-Mark;
it’s made and distributed by 26
different firms.
Fertiliser Mix
“Yanac”: Years ago super-
phosphate was usually applied
on its own —rarely with any other
fertiliser. Nowadays farmers
and graziers have the advantage
of many combinations and
mixtures where needed.
The super-potash, super-
nitrogen, and super-potash-
nitrogen combinations have great
value in orchards, some pastures,
and potato-crops. For the
grazier, the combinations of
super, and cobalt, super, and
zinc, super, and copper, and
super, and molybdenum bring
big benefits in special locations.
Mixing by the manufacturer
has the great advantage of
spreading the mineral evenly
through the super., and hence
evenly on the pasture; 'big
dollops are often the result of
mixing on the farm.
With molybdenum, 2oz. per
acre gives the desired result for
at least several years. Any more
than this doesn’t improve
pasture and can easily result in
nutritional troubles in the flock.
Mixtures of super, with
insecticides such as lindane and
D.D.T. provide excellent control
against certain pasture-pests.
Too Much Bone
“Boone”: In their search for
a greater proportion of meat to
fat in sheep carcasses, breeders
have placed too much emphasis
on conformation and the amount
of meat and fat, and have failed
to take into account the amount
of inedible bone, says Allan
Fraser in “Sheep Production.”
In fact, Fraser points out,
bones of our improved breeds
are thicker and heavier than those
of unimproved and wild breeds
of sheep good news for the
butcher, bad news for the
housewife, and a challenge to the
breeder.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(6/1/’57)
Heavy rains should continue on the Queensland
Peninsula and coast (central and north) during February,
but rainfall should be patchy elsewhere, and continue to be
poor in the south-west and southern-border areas. ;
February should prove to be a month of patchy ramtai
below normal in N.S.W., although reasonably good rams
should occur on the south coast and southern tablelands
and in the far west. There should be general rams through-
out the State during March. , . , r . . , .
Reasonably good rains are likely in Victoria during
February, although part of the Mallee and west coast may
be confined to light rain. , .
General rains should occur in most of S.A. during
February, and heavy falls in the upper-north; Mt. Lofty
Ranges and the south-east area confined to light rain.
Heavy rains are likely in Western Australia s ” ort “‘
west and Kimberleys during February, and these should
extend southward. The goldfields and south-east areas
confined to light rain.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Greater Europe
Since the end of World War II there
has been a widely held belief that there
are now only two great Powers, Russia
and the U.S.A.
According to this view Britain, France,
Germany, Italy, Japan and the rest were
weakened beyond recovery by the war,
and must be content, in the future, to
become satellites of one or other of the
Big Two. But this proposition ignores,
first, the powers of recovery shown by
these countries, and, second, the fact that
greatness isn’t measured solely by
numbers of soldiers, bombers and
dollars.
Draw a line through Europe from the
Arctic to the Black Sea, following
roughly the 1938 Russian western
boundary. From the Black Sea take a
loop east and south to include Turkey,
Persia, the Arab States and Israel, then
west across the Sahara to the Atlantic,
south of Egypt and the North African
States of Libya, Tunis, Algeria and
Morocco. Include in this area Great
Britain and Ireland.
Within this line nearly all of the world’s
civilisation and culture came into being,
its arts, its sciences, its technology, its
most important languages and three out
of four of its important religions (the
fourth originated among invaders from
this area who had settled in India).
Of the two nations outside who, three
centuries ago, could • make any claim to
contributions to world culture, India’s is
entirely insignificant compared with that
of any country within this area, and
China’s is not very much better. In the last
three centuries the more adventurous of
the peoples within what we may term, for
convenience, the Aryan-Semitic area,
have spread their culture over all the
world, to the benefit of all its people
now living, though some of the “back-
ward” races suffered - grievously in the
process.
United, this area has resources—not
only material, but moral, spiritual and
intellectual, as well as. a fund of experi-
ence in the ways of men —that no other
Power or group of Powers could hope
to match. Unfortunately it has been
bedevilled by a fatal fondness for war,
and all through its history it has been
the least peaceful area of the globe. Its
peoples have been engaged continually
in wars civil, national, religious and
commercial, over every probable ' and
improbable pretext, from the correct name
of Satan to the true ownership of
Heligoland, not forgetting such oddities
as ear.
At last a few wise people have realised
the stark alternatives confronting this
cradle Of culture. Either learn, and learn
quickly, .the secret of peace, co-operation
and eventual unity, or bow the knee,
probably within a generation, to Russian
atheism or American materialism. The
Suez crisis has shown unmistakably that
no one or two of them can stand up to
the danger alone; it has also shown that
all of them are utterly interdependent,
and that the countries overseas that form
their respective “Empires” are all in the
same boat with them. Further, it has
demonstrated, if any further proof were
needed, that they need not look to the
United Nations for help.
Towards that unity, based' on a
common cultural heritage, all our
resources should be devoted, while Russia
add America wrangle in and over U.N.O.
If we can achieve it, we are again masters
of our destiny, and there is again hope for
the world. But there are an awful lot
of old animosities and misunderstandings
to be lived down, and there is not much
time. — Magnoon (Q.).
Australian Wines
I have just been reading in “The
Country Life Annual” for 1957, published
m England, an article entitled “Starting a
Wine Cellar,” and, although the article is
written mainly for Britain, the idea could
be followed in Australia with advantage.
Cellars are not easily come by
nowadays, being largely confined to the
older types of residence, but even a decent-
sized cupboard, provided it is in a reason-
ably cool place—under the stairs, for
instance—would suffice for a modest
reserve of wine being “laid down.”
As a matter of fact, the most econo-
mical way of drinking wine is to have a
stock, for, as the writer points out, wine
as it ages becomes more expensive to buy,
and becomes rare and comparatively hard
to purchase even shortly after the
vintage.
Two good purposes are served by laying
down . wine—its relative cheapness when
bought young, and the knowledge that
the wine has been kept properly while
maturing.
There is little point in laying down
white wines in quantity; only the finest
of them, generally speaking, improve with
age. For the domestic cellar, port is
another wine that can be disregarded;
it takes about 20 years at least to mature.
Out of a' suggested 25 dozen bottles as a
nucleus, the writer of the article allocates
13 j dozen to claret, a wine that’s produced
to perfection in Australia, particularly in
western Victoria.
Twenty-five dozen sounds a lot of
wine, but is not so much when it comes
to making a selection after that initial lot
of claret. One thing apparently certain
is that, like the collecting of stamps,
money invested in good wine will appre-
ciate in value with the years.
One of the most agreeable features of
wine-drinking is its sociableness. Whisky
may be drunk for solace in solitude, but
a good bottle of wine needs company for
its full enjoyment. That- odd bottle of
spirits may be drunk all by yourself, but
it’s a fair bet that about half the wine in
your cellar will warm your friends’
throats.
The writer suggests, as a generalisation,
that one should aim at a five-years’ reserve
of wine (10 would be better). This does
not imply that every bottle bought now
should be laid down for five years, but
that there should be a sufficient supply
of fine wines for drinking five years hence.
The article mentioned confines its
recommendations to the vintages of the
Continent, particularly France. It might
be a good idea if our trade-representatives
in London brought some of our own good
wines to notice. — Ceg (Vic.).
Low and Den
Dave Low has got off the beam,
probably through trusting to memory
instead of looking up readily-available
references, in regard tQ C. J. Dennis’s
“Australaise.” Den certainly did not
label his verses “The Austra-bloody-
laise,” nor did he use the adjective in any
verse or the chorus; and moreover he
did not write “Pull yer bloody pants on,
tie yer bloody boots,” but “Shift
yer carcasses, Move yer - —-
boots.” ■
“The Australaise” was first published
(“With some acknowledgments to W. T.
Goodge”) in The Bulletin of November
12, 1910. Then entitled “A Real
Australian Austra laise,” it con-
sisted of four verses and a chorus, and
it won its author a special prize in a
“Hot, isn't it?"
National Song Competition, promoted
by The Bulletin, which drew 74 entries.
According to Den himself (in a 'State-
ment made later) the “song” was written
merely as a joke, but the judge of the
contest predicted that it would “win its
way to every heart in the backblocks.”
In further comment, the judge sug-
gested that “The Australaise” would gain
“immediate popularity” because it would
“go to the swing of the ‘Merry Widow’
waltz”; but in fact (as far. as l know) that
"Yes, but I lost my grass-skirt away out there!"
air was never adopted. Instead, Den
borrowed a more rousing melody—he
issued “The Australaise” in 1915, in the
form of a leaflet containing seven verses
and chorus, as “A Marching Song,” and
he suggested that it be sung to the tune
of “Onward Christian Soldiers.” That
suggestion accorded with the ideas of
the lads of the A.I.F. (for whom, chiefly,
the leaflet was issued), and so they
learned to bawl, in particular, not only
the first but the last of the verses: —•
Fellers of Australier,
Cobbers, chaps, an’ mates-.
Hear the —— German
Kickin' at the gates I
Blow the bugle,
Beat the drum,
Upper-cut an’ out the cow
To kingdom come l
Neither in The Bulletin nor the
leaflet (nor, indeed, in any of the later
issues of “The Australaise”) did Low’s
adjective appear. Discreetly enough,
Den left that matter to his readers, as
witness his footnote to the 1915 issue:
Reprinted from The Bulletin, with
alterations. Where a dash replaces a
missing word, the adjective “blessed” may
be interpolated. In cases demanding
great emphasis, the use of the word
“blooming” is ' permissible. However, any
other word may be used that suggests itself
as suitable.
Because unbound publications of some
few pages soon fall asunder, that one-
page “Marching Song” is now very rare.
Personally, I have seen only a single
copy, and I considered myself lucky to
locate and borrow that one for use as
an illustration in my Dennis biography
of 1946, The Making of a Sentimental
Bloke.
u Aside from Low’s error regarding
‘The Australaise,” plus a minor one
touching Den’s latter-day home at
Toolangi (which was not “the same
house, rebuilt magnificently,” as his
original shabby old dwelling), what
surprises me in the cartoonist’s narrative
'i ' /
is the scanty nature of his reminiscences
of the writers and artists of his Melbourne
period.
Has David forgotten Garry Roberts
and his wife, that warm-hearted couple
who entertained him and his colleagues
at Sunnyside, Kallista, over a long
period? Has he forgotten the rich talk
of Tom Roberts, Web Gilbert, and John
Shirlow, to say nothing of the pranks
and quick-witted quips of Hal Gye (who,
with Low himself, is the only member
of the Sunnyside group now living),
Harold Herbert, Bob Croll and Guy
Innes, as well as those of the author of
“The Australaise”?
When collecting material for the
Dennis biography I gathered at second-
hand (for I was not in Victoria in the
period under discussion) quite a lot of
fruity and amusing material relating to
the Sunnyside circle in general and Den
in particular, and thus it was reasonable
to expect from Low, as a member of
the group, additional material in kind—
an informed and entertaining survey of
one of the brightest literary-artistic
circles known to Australia.
David has not, for instance, recalled
the quaint error he made when illustrat-
ing Den’s Backblock Ballads. Nor, to
mention just one other snappy item, has
he told us about the rice-pudding, com-
plete with basin, which he took to the
Melbourne railway-station and presented
to Den and his bride when, in 1917, they
were starting on their honeymoon.
Is it too late for Low to do a spot
of amending and amplifying? An hour
or two of meditation, I imagine, would
be quite worthily productive, and if
memory fails on any point it could be
jogged by that sprightly combination of
artist and writer, Hal Gye.— Alec
Chisholm (N.S.W.j.
Extra Jobs
“S.C.F.’s” facts regarding the additional
job lowering production per man (B.
12/12/ ’56) are most interesting.
As an executive officer in close contact
with many employers, I Know that in most
instances the employee with two jobs,
casual and regular, does not do 100 per
cent, justice to the latter.
The reasons are many: The employee’s
thinking is directed towards the second
job, where he often is paid by contract;
time is organised in such a manner that
any delays in leaving the one post must
upset arrangements for the second, and
lunch-time is often given to planning and
securing materials. In consequence, he
is living on nerves.
Take the weekend-worker, sometimes
on his own job or more often working for
someone else, but usually giving every
ounce of energy to the task to obtain
results.
I have seen these men arriving on Mon-
day morning almost physically exhausted
and needing two days of the permanent
job to recover fully from the weekend
exertions. Their work suffers accordingly.
When men get back to one job only
output per employee will lift in shop,
factory and office.—C. B. M. (N.S.W.).


Hungarians
The Commonwealth Government acted
with praiseworthy promptness when it
offered to take 5000 of the Hungarian
refugees in Austria ; but we should find
room for many more.
There are more than 100,000 of the
refugees already, and they continue to
trickle over the frontier. Australia has the
opportunity of getting many thousands
of first-class immigrants from this source.
A country needing new settlers should
be glad to draw as many as possible from
a people as public-spirited and heroic as
the Hungarians have shown themselves
Hungarians are particularly well
adapted for settlement in a British com-
munity. They have a sound respect for
the rule of law, and a strong belief in
Constitutional government; they also
have strong monarchial traditions —traits
they share with British peoples.
Like those of British stock, too, they
are devoted to Christianity, some as
Roman Catholics, others as Calvinists
(Presbyterians). Free-thinking has never
had a powerful grip on the Hungarian
mentality. Their religious adherence to
churches to which important sections of
British-Australians also belong will ease
greatly the problem of assimilation. It
is always more difficult when the
immigrant belongs to a religious body
with no appreciable local following.
Hungarians are intelligent and hard-
working, and where opportunity offers
they maintain good living-standards.
Those who have settled here have been
among the best of our non- British stock.
Marriages with Australian girls have been
not infrequent. Many of the current crop
of refugees are well-educated, young,
single men and women-—ideal types to
rebuild their lives in a new land.
If asylum cannot otherwise be given
to as many of the refugees as care to
come here, then migration from some
other sources should be cut, -Cunedda
(N.S.W.).
Western Drivers Only-
Listing roads closed by recent heavy
rain Brisbane “Courier-Mail introduced
a new classification. Most of the roads
listed were simply said to be closed by
submerged bridges, etc., but the last on
the list was a western road, and it was
shown as “passable for experienced
western drivers only.”
What a pregnant phrase! To the
initiated it means a road on which the
United States Marines could gain no
ground unless they used such unsporting
Yankee methods as bringing their own
portable road with them, or unless they
had an “experienced western driver’ at
the head of the column.
My doctorate thesis for “experienced
western driving” was submitted in the
form, of a trip from Brisbane to Charie-
ville (further progress being impossible
without some long portable causeways in
the luggage) in the wet-season' early in
1956. In Roma it was almost impossible
to find anyone who would not start back-
ward in horror at the mere suggestion of
heading west by road that morning.
A travelling Main Roads official, who
had come in from the west before more
rain fell, said that his department’s
resident-engineer had to go to Mitchell
that day—and was going by train. That s
how bad it was —if anyone who can travel
by road chooses a Queensland railway-
journey in preference, then it certainly is
a bad road. The shire-overseer only
shook his head and smiled sadly; the
police were courteous, but clearly sus-
picious, with the idea of protective
custody not far from their minds.
At last one authority was found who
granted that it might be just possible to
get to Muckadilla by a back road, but
where would you be when you got to
Muckadilla? And how long would you
stay there if more rain fell? It proved
just barely possible to get to Muckadilla,
where the man behind the bar admitted
that anyone foolish enough to have got
that far might possibly get to another
pointless point a little further on. So it
proved to be—in grudgingly conceded
short sections all the way to Charleville.
The only real bogging on the whole
trip came from a piece of not entirely fair
play on the part of the Main Roads
Department. From quite a good stretch
of road, wlrere work was in progress, a
detour led along the garden-path to an
utterly hopeless bog, where the United
States Marines would certainly have come
to a halt just where my front wheels did.
A reasonably short walk led to a friendly
grader-driver who pulled me out back-
wards and told me to ignore the blanky
detour and use the newly-graded road.
I did somehow confound the prophets
that day, but they were wrong by only
the narrowest of margins, particularly as
the last 50 miles were driven peck-and-
neck with more rain, which if it had come
a few hours earlier would have put the
“You keep close to Mummy , or you’ll never live to see mint-sauce”
question beyond doubt and left me in the
first syllable of Muckadilla. — Cloviski
MacOdoacer (Q.).
Road and Rail
In reply to “Jalna” (B. 19/12/’56), I
merely made the point that you don’t
have to divide the total tonnage by the
payload of one truck and then say that
the answer is the number of trucks
required to shift it. Incidentally, 15 tons
is not a maximum payload —eight-wheeler
Macks or ERF’s with tandem dual semis
can handle 30 tons with ease.
Second, I said that despite all the tall
talk we still seem to use road-transport.
Figures are all very well; being an
engineering-surveyor they are part of my
tools of trade, and I could quote them by
the hour —but to what purpose? What
on earth is the use of proving conclusively
that a railway can do such-and-such when
in actual practice it doesn’t?
If even half the calculations put up in
support of rail-traffic were correct the
railways would show a profit. They show
thumping losses, so therefore these figures
are fallacious, applying as they do either
to isolated incidents divorced from the
general railway background, or dealing
with hypothetical trains shifting hypo-
thetical loads. Road-transport, on the
other hand, must rUn at a profit or the
operator goes out of business. That’s
plain hard fact.
It is this background that is so con-
veniently ignored. Here in W.A. we have
learnt quite a lot about railways the hard
way, and now an all-party committee has
recommended that 3000 of the State s
4000 miles of line be discontinued, 850
miles to be torn up right away. W.A.G.R.
overtime bill for last financial year was
given at roughly £IT million. The tax-
payer foots all this, of course, but this
aspect really isn’t relevant to my argu-
ment, apart from the light it throws on
“J.’s” assertion that the country “can’t
afford” the inefficiency of road-transport.
If the railway pundits —-who can’t seem
to make up their minds about what kind
of train to use—knew half as much about
road-transport as they do about railways
we might get a bit of sense into the argu-
ments anyway, but their general ideas
seem to embrace the bunch of carriers
who appear at stations as being represen-
tative. Without disrespect to these hard-
working folk, they are not “road-trans-
port,” which is not the handmaiden of
the railway, much as the savants would
like it to be.
If the figures meant anything, the rail-
ways would pay, and not be either (a) in
the red all the time, or ( b ) about to be
torn up.—R. H. G. (W.A.).
The Suez Canal
When de Lesseps floated the Suez Canal
Company in 1869 the Khedive was
allotted 176,602 of the 400,000 shares.
The company’s 99-year concession to
operate the canal does not expire until
1968. Our school-books told us of the
Khedive getting into financial difficulties
and Disraeli buying his shareholdings for
Britain for £3,600,000. Though the com-
pany is registered in Egypt the big
majority of the shareholders are
foreigners, Britain being the largest.
In 1888, only 19 years after the canal
was opened, user-nations evidently had
a doubt about all nations being always
permitted to use the canal. Representa-
tives of Britain, Germany, France, Russia,
Austria-Hungary, Spain, Holland and
Turkey (then the overlord of Egypt)
agreed to a convention, the opening words
of which state: “The Suez Canal shall
always be free and open in time of war
as in time of peace to every vessel of
commerce and of war without distinction
of flag.”
Both the original concession-agreement
and the convention stress the international
character of the canal, the latter implying
that it should be free to all ships for all
time. Nasser has repudiated both, and
seeks to use the canal as an instrument
for international blackmail.
The obvious solution would be to
force Egypt to grant the U.N. a 99-year
concession to operate the canal for ali
shipping of all nations, with appropriate
payments to Egypt and compensation to
the Suez company. With Hungary as an
object-lesson the Arab countries are not
likely to welcome the intervention of
Russian troops.
If two-thirds of the U.N. membership
lined-up against Egypt on this issue
Nasser would be obliged to give way.
However, indications are that the
cracies will once again be defeated by
their own unrealistic leadership in foreign
affairs. If our political leaders tolerate
the repudiation of international treaties
with such easy conscience, then what else
can we expect but international lawless-
ness?—K. Me. (N.S.W.).
School Reports
The practice of stating the child’s
position in class in school-reports (B.
2/1/’57) went out years ago in W.A.,
and so did the system of requiring a pass
out of one class before promotion to the
next. The W.A. Education Department
now works on a system of “chronological
promotion,” whereby, barring exceptional
circumstances, a child can expect to go
up to a new class each year, whether or
not it can pass the end-of-the-year exams.
This system recognises that not all
children are similarly endowed with
brains, that they don’t all develop men-
tally at the same age, and that not all
have the same aptitude for purely
academic learning. At the same time it
acknowledges that academic learning is
not so important that a smattering of it
must be acquired at all costs. A child
who found the going hard in, say, fourth-
grade this year may make as little pro-
gress in the same grade next year, with
the very great added disadvantage of
having to mix, learn and play with
younger children. On the other hand, he
may have no more trouble with fifth-
grade work, and there he’d at least have
the chance of picking up a little additional
knowledge.
Another point: A child who isn’t a
natural scholar isn’t likely to adopt a pro-
fession where scholarship counts for
much, so he won’t need the maths.,
history, or whatever it is he consistently
fails in. Why keep him down, then, to
try to drum into his head knowledge that
he’s going to forget in any case?
Moreover, he may have a penchant for
carpentry, metal-work, mechanical draw-
ing, or some other subject that he’d have
no chance of studying in the lower grades.
The idea now is to pass him through a
grade each year, encourage him to pick
up what he can in each, try to find out
what he’s best suited for, and guide him
along those lines.
Boiled-down, the system has two main
objects: To give a child a normal, happy
schooling by keeping him as much as
possible in his own age-group; and to
let each child have at least two years at
high-school level. This last is important,
Since it is during those two years that the
lad or lass is most likely to give an indi-
cation of natural. trends. — Squinter
(W.A.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 417
Across
I—Time1 —Time which makes a military post
dark. (9)
6—Moab’s disordered darkie. (5)
9 Chasing brunettes—but not in
daylight. (5, 4)
10— Bellow like a cow about a noted
Sydney artist. (5)
11— St. Herb of Grace. (3)
12— A levity tune for such a con-
tingency. (11)
14 — Bradman backed the dumb
assent. (3)
15— Trinket which is required when
listening to Menzies? (6)
16— The head is chopped off the fowl,
yet the bird is complete. (3)
20— I am in Parliament. The devil!
(3)
21 — Receptacle for embers in the
timber case. (3-3)
22 Duck. (3)
25—Mailmen who stop streams
improperly. (11)
27 Blubber —it’s connected with
wailing rather than whaling. (3)
28— A rowlock tee and a feature of
the other end of the fairway. (5)
29 Who goes before Leslie hops a
way of selling. (9)
30— A silk wrath of Roy Rene. (5)
31— South and Tiny Tim, quite with-
out ego, swallow a confection.
(9)
Down
1— Notorious patriotic oratory?
(8)
2 Where a cad keeps mum. (9)
3 The Vikings offer a negative
alternative to the impregnating
fluid. (8)
4 A very critical time for the
sepulchre alderman and the
Egyptian goddess. (5, 6)
5 Soviet river has tea all right.
(3)
6 The face of Samuel Craft in the
East. (6)
7 i wander up with an All Black.
(5)
8 — What partisan has none born to
you. (3-3)
13 —Money in volume is causing
difficulties. (11)
17 — Confused newt’s story lost fresh-
ness. (4, 5)
18 — The East cricket teams camp
dwelling is being sixteen secretly
before tea. (8)
19 — A bat measures such deformities.
(8)
23 —Spittle put in the aggregate. (6)
24—Current half-day with Father
French. (6)
26—Finland keeps us up to love
before I’m back. (5)
29—Used to be cut up. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 416


"\
V
A. -
' w— ,
'r(&«kcr~
*J.
*z-
\>'.U*^-.
V-
i;
'-ira|
The emphasis these days for the man on the land is CONSERVATION of soil,
fodder and stock. Scientific study of agricultural problems has revealed ways of
improving the quality and quantity of output and of CONSERVING THE FER-
TILITY OF THE LAND. More and more research is being undertaken to help
the man on the land conserve and consolidate. There is, however, a more pressing
problem THAT OF CONSERVING HIS ESTATE; making sure that upon his
death his property may pass on to his Beneficiaries unencumbered by death duties.
Land values today are higher than they have ever been, yet paradoxically the
growth in value has increased the liability, for there is one debt that cannot be
escaped—DEATH DUTIES.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance Company Limited, “The M.L.C.,”
has for many years specialised in the field of ESTATE CONSERVATION,
and has developed an attractive range of policies especially suitable for the
purpose. In some cases the amount required to pay Death Duties is consider-
able, and the M.L.C. offers a specially reduced premium rate for higher-than-
average requirements—this premium rate is one of the lowest available in
Australia today.
Particulars will be readily supplied without obligation upon request. Learn more
about THE M.L.C. ESTATE CONSERVATION PLAN as it concerns you
personally. Contact your nearest M.L.C. man for further details or drop a note
to the M.L.C. at Sydney (G.P.O. Box 1598) or the nearest M.L.C. District
Office.
Manager for New South Wales, G. E. ALLEN
He will be
carrying' 0n...
BE WELL ADVISED BY THE M.L.C. MAN
ML7S/FP
The
MIC.
(incorporated in iV. S. IQ
The MUTUAL LIFE and CITIZENS'
Assurance Co. Limited
