

/
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
Forty Red Years— page 42
Wednesday, November 27, 1957
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
IMMORTALISED IN STONE,
HUGO GAZES ON HIS GUERNSEY HOME
VICTOR HI'GO, the renowned French author of the widely-read
books “Les Miserables” and “Toilers of the Sea,” is commemoratecl
by a statue at St. Peter Port, on Guernsey, In the Channel Islands.
It was there that the writer lived for fifteen years after his banish-
ment front France in 1852.
He was horn in 1802 at Besancon. the son of a general in
Napoleon’s army, and was educated in Paris and Madrid. At the
age of 14 he produced his first drama, which was soon followed by
volumes of verse, novels, dramatic plays and an opera in 1836.
After his banishment, Hugo began more serious work, and his
book “Toilers of the Sea” was written about and dedicated to the
sturdy folk of Guernsey. Guernsey’s link with Victor Hugq was
renewed in 1952 when the novel was filmed in and around the island.
During his residence there, Victor Hugo did much for the children
of the poor in Guernsey, and it is as much for his charitable work
as his writings that he is affectionately revered on the island. This
characteristic garb by which he was recognised is immortalised in the
statue, illustrated here, which stands on a base of Guernsey granite
in C.andie Gardens, overlooking the town and harbour he knew so
well. The statue was presented by the French Government in 1914.
Hauteville House, the 200-year-old dwelling at St. Peter Port in
W'hich Victor Hugo lived, is maintained exactly as he left it in 1878.
The rooms are hung w'ith rich tapestries and are filled with many
fine pieces of furniture and relics of Louis XV. The study in w'hich
he wrote many of his works is situated on the roof of the building,
from which he had magnificent view's across the sea to the other
islands of the archipelago and to the coast of France.
No. 316: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


BOOK HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0.,, Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
Obtain volume, let us find it for you-Action,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
A RIVERINA FARM
Below These Hills, by Ernest G.
Moll, in collaboration with A. O.
Moll (Melbourne University Press), is
aptly described by its sub-title, “The
Story of a Riverina Farm” —the story
of a property to which the Moll family
moved from the Wimmera plains in
1910; how they broke the new place
in, how they worked and developed it,
with stories of ploughing, shearing, the
family, the farmhands, the horses and
the dogs.
In some ways it resembles that
admirable little book from the same
publishers, “A Homestead History,” as
also, though of a later period, it
resembles the Rachel Henning letters, (
but it lacks the immediacy—the first-
hand contact with life—of the diary or
the letter.
It is a little “literary,” a little
artificial—or perhaps conscientious
would be a better word. Moll invents
slightly stagy dialogue for his people
in the method of the short-story, a
device that is sometimes used in
histories and always creates some
confusions between fact and fiction. In
a work like this dialogue is best
restricted to the utterances which,
startling or amusing, are preserved by
the memory simply because they are
memorable.
Again, casting his reminiscences in
the perilous form of the essay—a
chapter on “Woman’s Work,” a
chapter on horses, a chapter on drought
and fire, a chapter on sheep, a chapter
on wheat, and so on—Moll surrounds
his jewels of fact and observation with
a setting of philosophy, prose-poetry
and generalisation, which, if it could
not fairly be described as heavy, does
tend to obscure them. There are too
many words around each living
anecdote, and the words, though
pleasant and informative, have no
special qualities of force or style to
justify them.
But, if one cannot help feeling that
the book might have been much more
alive if Moll had confined it to his
direct personal reminiscences, set down
with the passion and poetry of
nostalgia, it remains a fact that his
broader, more conscientious method
does give you a full and interesting '
picture of life on this Riverina farm.
It fulfils at least one of the hopes this
reviewer has often expressed for Aus-
tralian rustic writing, in that it is truly
regional literature—the writer stays in
one place and explores it as thoroughly
as he can, instead of following the
tourist-tracks all over the continent.
And, more importantly, for even an
account of a farm in the Riverina is
not of much use to literature unless it
comes to life, the jewels of direct
reminiscence and observation do glitter
through the generalisations in which
they are embedded. If the chapter on
horses is almost entirely generalised,
with no individual portraits of the
animals, the chapter on dogs is alive
practically all the way through.
There is Flossie, the expert sheepdog,
who brought the sheep home herself
when the farmhand had given up in
despair; there is the amorous Jimmy,
who was shot by a neighbor when he
was trying to burrow under the fence of
the dog-pen where there was a bitch on
heat; there are the magnificent fights
that broke out when every dog on the
farm flew to battle, taking care, oddly,
that they should always fight on the
right side, sheepdogs against the rabbit-
pack; there is Sparker, “the violater of
meat-safes and the scourge of foxes”;
and, most memorable of all for her
daring, if not so virtuous a citizen as
Flossie, there is Spot, the undersized
fox-terrier who fought with snakes and,
in the end, killed the snake that killed
her.
And throughout the book, choosing
carefully what is amusing or moving
from what is merely instructive, there
are the same kind of vivid anecdotes to
be found; the wonderful hillbilly (or
was he a practical joker?) who, when
the horsemen were lost on the journey
over from the Wimmera, said he had
never heard of the church and council-
dam (which they were trying to find)
two miles away; and the wild farm-
hand from “the Common” who shot
his horse when it annoyed him and
who afterwards, in the course of a
feud, most notably cannonaded his
neighbor’s fruit-trees; and the other
farmhand who got himself stuck head-
first down a hollow stump, looking for
his billy; and the mysterious stranger
who came to work at the farm during
World War I and incessantly studied
the mysterious book which turned out
to be a German-English dictionary;
and the swaggie who, when the cook
absentmindedly came at him with a
knife, hastily ejaculated, as a defence
against all possible assaults, “I’m an
Irishman . . . I’m an Irishman!”
The book is illustrated with some
charming little pen-drawings by Alison
Forbes and includes a of
Professor Moll’s poems from the
Riverina.
William Blake in Australia
This broad-hewn valley would have
suited Blake;
The ranks of God on every hill, stall
And waiting. He would have pondered
these lakes
Of shade cast from angels slowly
moving
Along the slopes, those tribes
assembled. Full
And spiking, that nimbus from the
crown
Elevated to the east would have
Delighted at, seeing in that splendor
The radiance of Uriel or the grave,
Immense Albion, a world’s vast glory
Whose gaze would dazzle flesh and
fuse the soul
To sing for ever in heaven’s quoir,
His friend Samuel Palmer would have
shown
How here, the trees figure these holy
things
To denser sight; how the Prince of
Glory
Hung upon His bough, the grief and
dolor
Of His streaming hair, was here bodied
forth
In what the dull imagination saw
As only the sad and sun-graced
mistletoe.
From these trees, they would have
marvelled, seeing,
Wheeling in the hoary air, seraphim
And the nimble cherubim there piping
Bird-sweet hosannahs above the
axeman
Bending his way in a nimb of Glory.
Victoria,
Noel Macainsh.
O rban on Art
The characteristic pastel by Desi-
derius Orban, whether he is in
Florence in midwinter or Sydney in
summer, is a kind of dark glimmer,
green trees emerging from murk and
fog and shadow, so it is hardly surpris-
ing that truth should glimmer darkly
through his A Layman’s Guide to
Creative Art (Edwards and Shaw).
Orban sets out, quietly and
persuasively, to guide the layman to
an appreciation of modern art and to
a recognition of the quality of
“creativeness” which the best of it
shares with the masterpieces of the
past; an admirable aim, but one which
he considerably confuses by contradic-
tion, overemphasis and terminological
inexactitude.
He quotes one of the standard
erroneous criticisms of the period
deriding the Impressionists; but it does
not follow, as he implies, that all
criticism of the post-impressionists
must be equally wrong. Nor does it
follow, as again he implies, that because
some of the most fashionable Victorian
artists have now been recognised as
meretricious, all modem artists must
therefore be on the right track; on the
{Continued on page 58)


s -- •
m.
mm
«s>
: •**• *
! ' "'
■:■ ■*-■+:* .*?
s**
*£*»**■
.JV*
•e ~*
' v < ■*- ••■•■■'■'■
': ?'■*&<• r 4 y
Sc v '.*;. -- ■ ***** --'• •■
«'i v
»>» **««*>>>**
«A» *
*2^
c
*< -as
♦ ■«
.«•** *
..•-'X *
all©
Hi!
result
s
©u
i*
Wooi
'> *. V
r
s Aies
WM
the
are
best
****** «OVid
proof of
Servi
'*S
our
rwrtw
to
ce
theM
an
the Lend
on
'S’
•%*
>y ..
% '$
i'Xii
V
V*
h '<
mt
m
**t . v$
*S
iii
iiii
■*o»
fit"
1H
m
***
ni
♦- .'■
S*£
_ && y.-vx., -y *yv2*j
-<\*rf*? * ; ' «* ** - -*1
m
P v*
w »Ol
»* 4512 t.
: -;.x:-
«AT«
iii r>
(s#w
<W T*;~>,
i*
*,** IP
pS&*
m
£
nev^* 5
.->**
;
rm
w*
€&eu and their affiliated Companies offer you
the choice of selling your wool in any of the
MAJOR CENTRES IN AUSTRALIA!
180 Branches give Nation-wide Service to the Man on the Land, covering
Wool, Merchandise, Shipping, Travel, Chartering, Insurance, Skin and Hides,
Land and Livestock, Rural Banking.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED
Adelaide, Perth, Albany, Melbourne, Geelong, Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, London
with which are amalgamated
COMMONWEALTH WOOL & PRODUCE CO. LIMITED .... SYDNEY!
NENCO LIMITED NEWCASTLE
MOREHEADS LIMITED .... BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Nov. 27, 1957
Vol. 78—No. 4059
The National Australian Newspaper
* Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street,. Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
DUTCH NEW GUINEA
THE Indonesian Government is a
hysteric Government. It has never been
anything else. It displaced the Dutch
through mob-violence. It is always
threatened with mob-violence. The
shadow of Communism hangs over it
all the time —a shadow of a large,
specious, threatening monster holding
out a carrot on a string. Only the
Army has prevented Soekarno from
plunging behind the Iron Curtain. Such
a move, of course, would be likely
to lead to an even greater chaos than
exists at present, and is only damped-
down by the existence (since March)
of martial law and the suppression of
freedom of speech and movement and
of political opposition rights.
Dutch New Guinea accession is not
a vital economic aspiration for
Indonesia as a whole. The Govern-
ment can’t govern what it has or
provide against starvation for the
population now under its ragged rule,
much less impose discipline on a
new and unwilling province with
tremendous local problems.
The Government probably doesn’t
care twopence about Irian as Irian, but
it does care about it as a pretext
round which it may solidify public
support and which may be used to
divert the attention of the rowdy
“merdeka,” Dutch - hating element
from other matters which threaten the
existence of the Soekarno regime.
The more desperate Soekarno
becomes in his own affairs and the
harder he finds it to keep control of
the reins of Government, the more
ardent and vocal he and his supporters
become about Irian. No doubt he is
being pushed from behind by Moscow,
which would like nothing better than
an opportunity to involve Indonesia
with Australia and other Western
Powers in the same way that the Arab
States have been involved in the Middle
East, so that the Kremlin could come
in with a show of strength and adver-
tise itself as the protector of the poor
and the exorciser of “colonialism” in
a new and very vital strategic area.
The savage attack by Russia on
Australia in the U.N. meeting shows
all too clearly where the land lies.
The position of Australia in relation
to New Guinea has hitherto always
appeared to be clear: that this country
would never relinquish control of the
territory in the foreseeable future or
allow an unstable element a foothold
on the main island, since it is the
doormat of the Commonwealth from
the point of view of defence and
cannot be abandoned without the
gravest consequences.
Instead of this, however, Canberra
seems to have joined itself to the Dutch
in a mutual agreement to integrate
New Guinea eventually as an
independent friendly nation.
Having regard to the fact that there
is no unity of language or interest in
the whole area, whose population is
sparse and made up of innumerable
small tribes with a mentality developed
scarcely beyond the Garden of Eden
stage, it is impossible for anybody
outside an infant-school to envisage
the place as a nation capable of manag-
ing its own affairs for at least a century;
or its having a population within that
time which would make it capable of
resisting the pressures of the growing
Javanese population near by, which is
already bursting out of its compart-
ment in the most thickly populated
island in the world of its' size. Java
has an area about half that of Victoria
and a population estimated at about
54 million.
The move to integrate policy with
the Dutch has played directly into the
hands of the Indonesian agitators, and
was followed immediately by the
accusation by the Indonesian Informa-
tion Minister that Australia had sent
troops to Merauke and thus directly
intervened in the dispute and provided
an excuse on which Soekarno and his
friends could base a threat of, and
perhaps the use of, force.
Soekarno did not himself make the
accusation, but he himself quickly
followed it up, not by a disavowal in
the interests of peace and amity but
by an actual statement that force
might have to be used to secure Irian.
He made this statement at a time
when there was a high-level Indonesian
delegation in Australia, ostensibly
seeking Australian import trade, but
faced with failure as the Indonesian
and Australian Governments must both
know fairly well, since, outside oil. in
which the trade already is organised,
Indonesia has not much to offer by
way of bargaining.
Australia has not, of course, sent
any troops to Merauke —which was
under an Australian command during
the war—for more than twelve years.
Mr. Casey has denied the wicked furphy
and says that the reports appear to be
“part of a deliberate campaign to
influence the United Nations debate on
New Guinea”—incidentally, Soekarno
has made it clear that he has no inten-
tion of obeying the U.N. ruling in the
matter if it goes against him, as it
must. The purpose of the false charge
was, indeed, revealed when its utter-
ance was followed by the recruiting in
Java of Indonesian troops for “recon-
struction” in Irian. It is a typical
Communist manoeuvre.
Soekarno’s view is lawless, and he
and his Minister for Information, who
propagated the untruth about the Aus-
tralian troops, have declared the
situation to “be explosive and capable
of leading to war.” Mr. Casey said:
One cannot too greatly deplore state-
ments of this inflammatory nature.
They are part of a deliberate campaign
of falsification from the mouths of
responsible Ministers of Indonesia....
[which is]....“very greatly resented in
Australia by the Government, and I
think the majority of the Australian
people.”
Mr. Casey has previously stated the
West New Guinea position more clearly
than anybody else. He has pointed
out that the province is on the Aus-
tralian oceanic shelf and that its people
are Melanesian and completely
different racially from the Malays of
Indonesia, and also in language. They
belong more properly to the Pacific
than to the Indonesian zone.
Though in any showdown between
the Dutch and the Indonesians (plus
their “allies”), Australia’s interests must
lie with those of the Dutch, it seems
unnecessary at this juncture to commit
the Commonwealth to “integration”
plans that have no practical basis.
And while Australia’s policy concern-
ing the island of New Guinea needs
to be as emphatic as the White
Australia policy, like that policy it
should be administered in a manner
least likely to provoke those mischief-
makers north of the Equator who have
others trailing a coat on their behalf.
ON OTHER PAGES
Page.
Plain English . . . . . . 6, 7
Society . . . . . . . . 8,9, 10
The Art of History . . . . 11
Political Points . . . . . . 12, 13
Finance and Economics—
-20, 21, 22, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31
Barney’s Chook . . . . . . 32
Storm in a Beermug . . . . 36
Forty Red Years . . . . . . 42


"ARMS FOR THE MERCY OF KHRUSHCHEV!"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Cabinet Changes
Inevitable changes now due will give
the Prime Minister a chance to
rationalise his Cabinet and perhaps
though it seems a vain hope —reduce it.
If it were streamlined to efficiency it
would mean reducing the representation
of some States —which would never do,
since it seems to be less important to
have efficiency than to make every State
feel that it has an adequate share in
government.
The prospective changes are due to the
almost certain retirement of two
Ministers. Howard Beale, Minister for
Supply and Development, it has been
announced unofficially, will leave early
in the year to become Ambassador to
the United States. There has been some
murmuring about the appointment, but
Beale has evidently been chosen because
he is persona grata with the Americans
and thoroughly familiar with an aspect
of our relationships with them in which
we are momentarily most interested —
the development of nuclear-defence and
the exchange of information concern-
ing it.
Despite attacks on him by the Opposi-
tion, Beale has done a good job in his
department, is industrious and has
broadened and developed considerably in
the past few years. He will probably
make a good Ambassador in his new
niche, and he was Mr. Casey’s particular
choice.
Beale’s seat, Parramatta, is a blue-ribbon,
constituency, and there will be a bold
contest for it among the Liberals. It is
to be hoped that they find a candidate as
sound as was unearthed for Wentworth
when Sir Eric Harrison retired. Although
a new member, Leslie Bury might easily,
in the light of his financial experience
and prestige, be elevated to junior Cabinet
rank.
Sir Arthur Fadden cannot hold office
indefinitely, and it would be a sound idea
to have a potential Treasurer in immedi-
ate training. Perhaps Bury’s independence
of mind may stand in his way, as does
W. C. Wentworth’s in his way. On sheer
ability the member for McKellar is about
the ablest of the back-benchers, and his
constructive capacity was demonstrated
on the break-of-gauge committee. He
seems to have little chance of office and
is possibly more useful as a private
member.
The second vacancy foreshadowed will
come with the retirement of Sir Philip
Mcßride, a man with little personal liking
for politics and one who has made
tremendous sacrifices of his very large
private interests over many years to serve
his country. He is not an outstanding
speaker, but he is one of the best business
brains in the Ministry and will be a sad
loss in some respects.
However, he is certain to be succeeded
by a South Australian —probably A. R.
Downer, who is one of the abler and
more vocal members of the back bench,
dowered with much of the ability and
independence of his great father, who
was one of the most powerful figures
involved in the making of the Common-
wealth, and to whom Deakin gave an
almost unstinted admiration. Downer is a
university man, a barrister and was a
p.-0.-w. in Malaya.
The exit of two Ministers connected
with defence would give the Prime
Minister a chance to rationalise the
Ministerial set-up to reduce somewhat the
overcrowd of Cabinet members in the
defence departments. He possibly had
this in mind when he appointed the
Morshead committee earlier this month.
. Some of the surplus might devote
themselves to developmental subjects.
S. M. Bruce
[From “C.S/’J
Lord Bruce of Melbourne is back in his
native city for the English winter and has
a second blooming. There is no doubt
he is better equipped for the role of elder
Empire statesman than he was as the too-
English Prime Minister of the ’twenties,
and a more cheerful figure and companion
than the elderly-looking man I used to see
walking his lonely way round the Fitzroy
Gardens while he waited —fruitlessly, as
it turned out —for Australia to find
another job for him in 1947.
There were only a handful of friends
to see the Bruces off back to London, but
in a few months he had been lifted to
the peerage, offered directorates of big
companies, and appointed chairman of
official food, agriculture and industrial
finance organisations.
He has regained the assurance he
carried in the palmy days of his Prime
Ministership, and until February he will
be looking-up old political friends and
foes and others in Melbourne, Sydney
and Canberra.
He declined to discuss controversial
subjects with the young shipping reporters
to whom he must have seemed as remote
as Alfred Deakin, a monument from a
park surprisingly alive. “Tell your
editors,” advised the chipper septua-
genarian, “I'm as difficult a fellow as
ever,” and vanished into smoke.
He has always been, though, a very good
friend, in his quiet, wise and well-informed
way, to newspapermen.
The Rise to the House
of Asher
Keyhole reporters have given various
versions of the events leading up to the
election to the N. S. Wales Legislative
Council along with eight Labor
members, four Liberals and two Country-
party men —of Asher Joel, Sydney public-
relations consultant, who stood as an
Independent on the nomination of two
Liberal M.L.A.s, but the facts appear to
be these.
Early this year the Parliamentary
Liberal party agreed to call for nomina-
tions for candidates for the Council
vacancies, the selection to be made by a
joint meeting of Liberal members of the
two Houses. At the end of July B. S.
Deane (Hawkesbury) and D. G. Padman
(Albury) admitted to party-leader Morton
that they had undertaken to nominate
Asher Joel as an Independent. Morton
reminded them that the party had agreed
to nominate a team, and he suggested
to Joel that if he wanted Liberal members
to support him he should put his name
in for the preselection ballot. Joel
declined to do so.
On October 1 a final preselection ballot
was held at which all Liberal members
of the two Houses voted either in person
or bj/ proxy. Before the vote was
taken members were told they were
free to withdraw from the meeting if they
wished to do so, but that if they
remained and took part in the ballot they
should consider themselves morally
bound to vote for the candidates success-
ful in it. All, including Deane and Pad-
man, remained.
When it was subsequently found that
Joel had been nominated by Deane and
Padman there was a stormy party meet-
ing at the end of which a motion was
passed reprimanding Deane for having
taken part in the preselection ballot when
his vote was already promised to Joel.
Padman’s omission from the motion was
apparently due to his having said that he
felt his obligation to Joel had been
discharged by his nominating him and
that he reserved his right to vote as he
thought fit at the actual election.
Padman’s explanation of his action, as
given to the Albury “Border Morning
Mail,” was that he didn’t know Joel
personally, but that he had been very
strongly recommended by Alex Mair
(former Premier of N. S. Wales and
Padman’s predecessor as member for
Albury). He said, “I am prepared to
accept Mr. Mair’s recommendation. He
would not have made it unless he con-
sidered it was in the interests of the
party.” Padman also told the “Mail,” “I
am convinced Mr. Joel is a man who will
be a definite asset to the Liberal party”—
this of a man he didn’t know personally.
Deane remained adamant, said he
would vote in accordance with his con-
science and his understanding of Liberal-
party requirements, and maintained that
a fifth Liberal couldn’t be elected, any-
way, and that if Joel got in it would be at
the expense of Labor.
Secret ballots are, of course, secret, but
those who claim to be able to pierce the
veil say that Joel’s eight first-preferences
were cast by Clive Evatt (of the Clive
Evatt Labor party), five Country-party
members and two Liberals. In later
counts he needed to pick up only two
more votes to ensure election.
Press reports of Morton’s impending
resignation over the issue smacked a little
of king-making (or unmaking). Appar-
ently Morton yielded to persuasion not to
press for the expulsion of Deane. But
that is not to say that he would not
have had the numbers with him if he had
insisted on that course. Before deposing
one leader it is wise to find his successor.
And there’s none standing out among
the N. S. Wales Liberals at the moment.
The unexplained mystery of the
incident is not in its ending but in its
beginning. Why did two staunch


Liberals nominate an Independent—
especially one with the reputation of
being a white-haired boy of the Cahill
Government?
"My Country Always Wrong"
If a championship were held for the
sturdiest and most consistent crier of
stinking-fish in Australia, there probably
would only be one competitor, since even
accomplished practitioners would scarcely
risk a contest with Dr. Evatt.
Everything the Government of this
country does, not to mention the Govern-
ments who work in concert with us in
international “affairs and defence, is
putrid rotten, according to his view.
This would not be so bad, seeing
that Opposition-leaders are nearly always
pessimists about Governments, if it did
not turn out that the Communists and the
Soviet Union in particular appear to be
almost always right.
When Communists were in trouble
during the war —two functionaries of
the N.S.W. branch of the suppressed
party, for instance, who were interned
for planning sabotage and subversion of
the war effort and factories in a carefully
concealed bush hide-out —Dr. Evatt was
there loudly shouting about the rights of
the Communists to “British justice.”
When the Communist party wanted
members of the Australia First move-
ment interned, interned they were, and
got little sympathy from Dr. Evatt, who
during the course of a royal commission
declared publicly through the press—
in his capacity as Attorney-General—
that anybody who associated himself with
the unfortunate and innocent internees
who were about to have their cases
investigated would find himself “on the
side of a group the leaders of which were
prepared to stab Australia in the back
during the period of our greatest peril—
a Quisling, subversive, anti-Australian
and anti-British group.” Not a single
credible piece of evidence supporting this
statement was produced before the
commissioner.
Later on Dr. Evatt was to the fore
on occasions of note when Russia wanted
some backing. He was against Aus-
tralian policy in regard to Communist
China, Indo-China and Korea, and also
against the sending of Australian troops
to Malaya.
When the Petrov commission was
appointed and a remarkably large
number of Dr. Evatt’s staff became
involved in one way and another, he was
there once more hysterically offering to
prove that the judges and everybody but
the Soviet Union people and the local
Communists who came under suspicion
were forgers and Heaven-knows-what.
Subsequently, he preferred the say-so
of Molotov to the considered findings of
three Australian judges.
He was on Russia’s side in the Suez
affair.
Now he declares that the words “free
world” applied to the non-Communist
nations are a “cliche,” and that many
of the small nations —the very ones,
apparently, which formed his own
faithful pack in U.N. of yore—-are not
democracies worthy of alliance with us ;
that it is a lie —in spite of the specific
inferences of Khrushchev and “Pravda”
—to suggest that the sputniks have any
military significance ; that the. Macmillan-
Eisenhower agreement for exchange of
scientific know-how is a backward step.
Also, he wants recognition of Red
China and a close defensive alliance with
Indonesia, which is a totalitarian dictator-
ship under martial law, with freedom of
speech and the press rigidly suppressed,
except for Leftist friends of Russia and
Soekarno’s personal supporters.
It is no wonder that his colleagues
Calwell and Fraser -shudder every time
he stands up or every time Mr. Casey
stands up to criticise him.
"Diplomatic Immunity"
The demand Tor the waiving of
diplomatic immunity which is being made
by Mr. Fraser, the member for the A.C.T.,
and .some of his unthinking colleagues
in Canberra may sound reasonable
enough to an outsider who does not
understand the position. But it is doubtful
whether Parliamentarians of any other
country could be found to attack it in the
manner in which it is being attacked.
An Embassy or High Commision head-
quarters which has diplomatic status is
virtually a piece of the soil of the nation
it represents and its inmates are subject to
the laws of the country of which it is a
part. Persons who are brought in a
diplomatic entourage to the country in
which the Embassy ,is lodged are entitled,
subject to their contracts, to seek redress
from their own countries in disputes with
their employers, who are immune from
the effects of local law.
Sometimes the results of this position
seem harsh by comparison with what they
might be if the persons involved were
citizens of the country in which they
happened to be at the moment. But some-
times it is the other way round.
What Mr. Fraser and his friends seem
to be asking is that where Australian
conditions happen to be better than, say,
British conditions, anybody who wants to
have the law on a British High Com-
missioner, or some other diplomat, should
be subject to Australian law.
Presumably, however, this arrangement
is to be entirely one-sided and is to
operate here only. Not even the most
thick-headed member of a thick-headed
Opposition would be anxious to see it
esablished in relation to Australian diplo-
matic missions abroad.
It is not hard to imagine what Mr.
Fraser would say on learning that an
Australian employed at the Australian
Ministry in, say, Abyssinia had been told,
on meeting with an accident, that he must
sue in the local courts and claim accord-
ing to Abyssinian standards of living and
justice.
In the case which Mr. Fraser has
chosen to champion, the lady involved is
a British subject, paying British taxation.
The benefits of the compensation laws of
the United Kingdom presumably are open
to her. She wishes, however, to stay in
Australia and to renounce her British
rights.
If it were not an accident of geography
that she had happened to be injured here
and the accident had taken place in
Russia or Ceylon it would pay her to
retain her British rights.
“I don't care HOW you do it—but I Want you guys up there on that moon
before the Russians!"


Gociety
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS”
“L.C.”: Debut-ain’ts.
♦> »> ❖
“Mac Hoots”: Sir Edward Hallstrom
says that the birth of a filly sired by
Taronga Park’s 25-year-old Mongolian
stallion was “a major achievement for
the zoo and had occurred only after years
of patient nursing of the aged Tommy.”
It sounds to me like a major achievement
for Tommy.
*
“Alma”: A logical thing, the feminine
mind. “I made my will the other day,”
said Mrs. A. to Mrs. B. “That reminds
me,” said Mrs. 8., “I haven’t made mine
yet, and now I’m driving the car, you
know.”
£♦ i*
“Mackville”: He was very obviously
a metho-soak, and as he shuffled up to me
in Moore Park (Sydney) I prepared for
the inevitable bite. The opener was
unexpectedly well-modulated: “ ’Xcuse
me, mate, no ’ffence meant. Been on a bit
of a jag. S’ppose you can see that. Pretty
right, now, but” —his voice lowered—
“could you”—here it came —“tell us what
day it is?” Rocked, I informed him of
day and date. He thanked me and went
on his way, leaving me to reflect that at
last I had found him—the bloke who
really didn’t know what day it was.
-tj*
“Xavier”: She was a gentle old lady,
but her obsession with her car was the
bane of every mechanic in the district.
Never a visit to a service-station but the
mechanic had to check from bumper to
bumper ; so that when the turn came of
one of my colleagues he found, chalked
on the engine: “I pity you, brother. Pull
your head outa here. There’s no future
with this dame.”
“Dankesehr”: Unlike Olaf Ruhen (B.
13/11/’57) I’ve often been treated to
lunch by an Australian editor, though not
to breast-of-peacock and caviare; only
breast of turkey and maybe asparagus.
Peacock might go down very well with
Lucullus-sauce, Olaf. But caviare! Take
it away as a hors d’oeuvre. Travelling from
Rotterdam to Sydney on a Hamburg-
Amerika freight ship, we handful of
passengers saw so much of the stuff,
heaped generously on triangles of toast,
that by the time we reached Adelaide I
was relishing for preference the lily of raw
ham stuffed with asparagus tips, the spiral
of raw, salt fish and even the dollop of
raw beef, topped with a sptinkle of onion,
that relieved the caviare. Perhaps our
caviare was rolled-out by the barrel
from Russian-controlled East Germany to
the West, but its plenitude suggested that
it’s no longer the rarity it was, even at an
American editor’s luncheon-party.
“Scribonia”: Olaf Ruhen (B.
13/11/ ’57) is not the only writer who has
kicked at being subbed. George Crowley,
when boss of the City Mutual, was so
jumping mad at having had a sonnet of
his altered by Bulletin subbing that,
tipping the culprit was David McKee
Wright, verse-carpenter at the time, he
wrote a most abusive letter to S. H.
Prior, then editor, threatening to call-up
Wright’s mortgage with the company if
it was he who perpetrated the crime.
Thanks to S. H. Prior old George,
placated, didn’t carry out his threat; and
the poet’s cherished property still remains
“Wright’s place.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Piston Pete”: The Infant Mistress
shepherded a small group of seven-year-
olds into the room for some remedial
reading. The first reader had scarcely
begun when the slowest-thinking, slowest-
speaking lad in the group drawled, “Is
—your —name —Miss Ex—or Mrs. Ex?
Unruffled, the I.M. informed him that her
name was Miss Ex; and the lesson pro-
ceeded. Five minutes later, when the
incident was all but forgotten, the reader
was again interrupted by the same drawl
floating out from behind an upheld book:
“Then —you’d—better—hurry—up.”
*i*
“Sister Ellell”: “Miss M.’s” mention of
embalming-fluid recalls an American
General I nursed during the war. Despite
all the ability of the surgeons in that
tented hospital, he died ; a tearful aide-
de-camp asked me was I going to embalm
him? This shook me rather, and while
I knew the Yankee bearers of Flo’s lamp
favored a more specialised course than
ours (with less attention to the scrubbing-
brush) I couldn’t imagine that embalming
would be part of same. About that time,
and with great difficulty, I acquired a
carboy (which had contained Manila gin,
but amongst 40 Sisters it didn’t go very
far) and it now graces my home as a
lamp-base. Lately, a visitor who had
served in the same area at the time
admired it, so I mentioned the original
contents. “Manila gin!” snorted he.
“That’s the stuff the Yanks brought in for
embalming!” That shook me rather
further.
“This ravishing spring model is Worn with a slight off-face tilt."
GOLDEN GOWNS
“An association of American fur-breeders
offered seven-million dollars (£3,125,000) for
45 per cent, of the shares in the French fashion-
house of Dior.”
Seven-million dollars for
Less than half the Dior shares!
I knew the trade was hardly poor —
Indeed, my father told me “There’s
Money in rags” Well, he was wise.
The sequel is a trifle funny:
I didn’t follow his advice,
Yet I’m in rags ... but not the money !
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


■firAITING for a Melbourne show to
** start I took a stroll around town.
The main attractions were the commis-
sionaires at hotels and night-clubs. They
were at their best when summoning taxis
for patrons. Styles ranged from an ear-
splitting drover’s whistle from outside
Mario’s (night-club) to a rather genteel
waving of a handkerchief outside the
conservative Windsor Hotel ; the whistle
came from a rather young-looking com-
missionaire and the hanky-waving from
one who may have been a stand-in for
Noah. —“Delaney.”
❖ ❖ •>
“Doynest”: Satellites have given a
tremendous fillip to the sales of telescopes.
Saw one in a shop-window, an ordinary
enough type worth a few quid, labelled:
“Ideal for viewing satellites only
£l7 10s.”
♦> *
“Bo”: Is there a greater anachronism
in spectator-sports than the ritual
“warming-up” of top tennis-players?
Golfers might, with equal justification,
claim a few hits off the first tee before
hitting-off in big tourneys, cricketers
might demand restoration of the long-
dead “trial-ball” for the opening-bat who
takes strike, and hockey-players could
get a flying start by having a preliminary
bash at their opponents’ shins before
taking the field. Sometimes the tennisists
will “warm-up” for five minutes —as in
this year’s N.S.W. doubles —with the
mercury standing at 98deg. And I have
seen a player come out for a doubles-
final shortly after having competed in
the singles and still go through the rite.
Most players have a preliminary hit-up
on an outside court some time before the
match starts.
*3*
“Bicky”: Encouraged by the outstand-
ing success of the automatic telephone
weather-service in Melbourne, the P.M.G.
Department is considering introducing it
in Sydney and other capital cities. The
forecasts, recorded every two or three
hours on an endless rubber band,
attracted 370,681 callers (an average of
12,000 a day) in the first three weeks of
operation in Melbourne.
❖ ❖ *
“Cinquanteneuvieme”: When the head-
master of Sydney High School prohibited
the use o‘r possession in school of water-
pistols by Leaving-class boys, the boys
of Box Hill High School, Melbourne,
took up the sport and used the water-
pistols on the girls. The young ladies
very quickly scotched that. Each one
obtained a water-pistol, charged it with
a very powerful scent and retaliated.
Water-pistols for boys then became
obsolete.
►>
“Dicky”: In the clatter of a big city
store, he stood islanded amongst bright
young things, all feminine, who oo’d and
ah’d over the latest in shorts and slacks,
trying them up against shapely, and
“You can show yourself now, dear”
figures. At last his anxious eye
caught that of a salesgirl. “1 want a pair
of jodhpurs for my daughter, and here,”
he handed over a page of measurements,
“is the plan of the elevation.”
* ❖ * 4
“J.T.”: A steel-nerved rigger on one
of the tall buildings under construction
in Sydney was reported to be getting
down from the heights at knock-off time
by dropping through space from one
girder to the next one below. Authority
saw him doing it, warned him it was
idiotic —“What happens if you miss?” —
and told him: “Don’t do it again.” “Ar,”
the rigger said, “it doesn't matter if you
miss the first girder below. It’s only if
you miss the second one you have to
worry.”
*l* ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“M’boro”: It came, as through a
carbon-paper fuzzily, on the bottom of a
receipted document —one of those long,
blind-’em-with-science papers insurance-
companies handle so well. Below the
figures and facts was . . . “Kal arranged
a surprise party for the night and about
15 . . .” That was all. I finished it off
a dozen differing ways—“and about 15
kegs was the night’s issue,” or “about 15
policemen broke it up at 4 a.m.,” or
“about 15-inches was published on it in
the next day’s court news.” But it seems
the sort of half-sentence that would not
bother itself with such a run-of-the-mill
shindig. Any Bulletin reader know
the score?
*l* ❖ ❖
-‘Kelms”: A bloke who ran a business
as an unlicensed, and consequently illegal,
bookmaker got off with a £25 fine in
Perth (W.A.) because he didn’t own the
G.P.O. He happened to work there —at
least that was his place of employment—-
and while the Act stipulates a £75 fine for
being the owner or occupier of a place
not registered under the Betting Control
Bill and using that place for off-course
betting, a magistrate can’t inflict that
penalty if the offender doesn’t own the
place he’s operating in.
❖ ❖ ♦> ■
“C.H.R-”: I found a paid-up policy for
£175 on the life of a man who died 23
years ago ; no claim had been made, as the
family believed .the policy had been
surrendered for cash two years before
death, and the document was included
with some old papers under a lino. The
office paid the claim without hesitation
once the papers were completed ; they
had thought the assured still lived.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Bird”: Browsing through an 1888
edition of Mrs. Beeton’s Household
Management I came, upon this “scale of
servants suited to various incomes”:
About £lOOO a year—cook, upper- and
under-housemaid, manservant; about
£750 —cook, housemaid, manservant;
about £5O0 —cook, housemaid, footboy ;
about £3O0 —cook and housemaid ; about
£2OO or £l5O a year—general servant or
girl for rough work.
❖ ♦♦♦
“Uramao”: Two schoolboys in a
Wellington (N.Z.) suburb, Taita, could
teach Guy Fawkes a trick or two. As
November 5 approached, a shopkeeper
staged a display of fireworks in his
window. The lads procured a magnify-
ing-glass and directed the sun’s beams


on to a packet of crackers. Bung-bungs,
skyrockets and all the other fiery devices
joined in a conflagration that threatened
a major disaster until a man seized a
hose and held the fire at bay pending
the arrival of the Lower Hutt Fire
fl^a 6 ♦♦♦
“New Chum”: When I first arrived in
Australia I sometimes fojmd the language
difficult. In Perth (W.A.) I spent an hour
looking for Hay Street, which the locals
pronounce High Street. I went into a
“He touched one! Will he be all right ?”
hardware-shop and asked for a milk-can,
and was presented with a five-gallon
chum or creamery-can. Later I.learned
that I should have asked for a “billy.”
But funniest of all was the day an Aus-
tralian friend and I were ordering soft
drinks in a milk-bar, and my friend said,
“I’ll shout,” and I waited, highly em-
barrassed, for the commotion to
commence.
❖ i*
“Swanee”: Had Lieut. Campbell, a
magistrate of the 1830’s, been on the
Bench today* he would have given Ernie
O’Dea’s snoopers short shrift. An in-
former who had given information at
Parramatta Court against six publicans
whose lamps, he found unlit at night told
the magistrate that he hadn’t awakened
the publicans to tell them that their lamps
were out. Campbell said the law respect-
ing lamps was not made to annoy publi-
cans or to give the informer half the fine,
but to accord the public necessary
protection. Cases dismissed.
»j«
“Postscript”: Colored telephones in
cream and other pastel shades were, and
may still be, available to Australian sub-
scribers (B. 30/10/’57). But, compared
with- black, they’re a shade dearer.
Strangely enough, though moulded in the
usual plastic or vulcanite material,
colored phones, exposed to strong light,
fade almost as quickly as the curtains.
*> ❖❖
“Kia-Ora”: “Bo’s” moan about losing
umbrellas: there is a make on the market
in woman’s umbrellas with an effort to
prevent loss. Attached to the handle is
a rubber (“Bo’s” rubber-co. share has
had a boost, evidently) button nyith a
cavity on one side. “This,” the sales-
woman told me, “is stuck to the table
when dining out. When you rise to leave
your hanging umbrella will stop your
exit and remind you to take it along.”
►> *;♦ ►>
“N.A.8.”: The proprietor of an
O'Connell Street, North Adelaide, shop
doesn’t put his faith in human night-
watchmen. Passed his lock-up premises
and saw behind the glass-front door a
massive Alsatian pacing a restless beat
among the counters.
❖ ♦>
“Zorok”: Don’t think that owner of
the weekend shack named Gnu Gnu after
“the place I came from up Tamworth
way, Goonoo Goonoo” (B. 20 /11 / ’57)
had ever been there. The locals never call
it anything like Gnu Gnu ; to them it’s
always Gunni G’noo.
❖ ***
“Xavier”: Sydney took its name from
the Secretary of Stat»\of the Home
Department, Viscount Sydney of St.
Leonard’s and Baron Sydney of Chisel-
hurst, but where did he get his name?,
Some derive it from the Latin sindon, a
fine cloth, wherefor girls born about the
feast of the Winding Sheet of Christ
(Friday after the second Sunday in
were called “Sidony” in England;
“Sidonie” in France and “Sidney” in
Ireland. A more feasible view cites a
reference in the reign of Henry II to
Sydney as “de Sancto Dionisio,” i.e.,
William of St. Denis. Thus Sydney could
be a reduction of St. Denis, as with
Semple for St. Paul, Sellinger for St.
Leger and Sinclair for St. Clare. St. Denis
was the first bishop of Paris and was
martyred about a.d. 275.
■<£♦ »>
“Miss M.”: That incredible stock-
character, the poor old woman who
remains cheerful in the face of every
disaster, I met after a bus-smash. Among
the group awaiting ambulance transport,
she stood out like a lighthouse. When I
remarked that she didn’t seem upset she
said, “Why should I be, ducks? I was
on me way to hospital for an operation,
anyway—and now I s’pose they’ll give me
me fare back.”
A CRUSH ON CULTURE
“A sports-writer points out that, of all pro-
fessional-sport practitioners, wrestlers seem to
be the only ones who give any thought to
bettering themselves culturally.” \
Punters do feel rather sad
When the hickey-hock whose moke
Has cost ’em plenty cannot quote
Aurelius;
And it makes a golf-fan mad
If his favorite pro.’s a bloke
Who’s never heard of Hindemith or
Delius.
It’s deplorably a fact
That before big fights, the pug
Dwells more on subjects that are
rather coarse, sir,
(Like his method, when attacked,
Of protecting mug and lug)
Than of nourishing his mind with
lines from Chaucer.
Football pros, have never learned
That the leathern sphere might be
More surely handled were,they fed
on Bacon;
If to Shakspeare he had turned
An increased ability
Might be the front-row pig’s whose
job is rakin’.
So among the pros, it goes —
Nary a touch of highbrow gloss
Except one bunch : Present the cul-
tural apple
To mat-matadors, to those
Big gorilla-men who toss
And slam and gouge, buffer and bust
and grapple!
Fans who’d cultivate the mind
And in erudition soak
Need never waste their time in endless
questing
Through Culture’s tomes; they’ll find
Watching one cove trying to choke
Another’s intellectually interesting.
Many a time at ringside-seat
When one grappier’s sunk his tats
Into soft flesh covered by trunks of
satin
I’ve enjoyed a cultural treat:
A kick-back in the slats
To curses either in ancient Greek or
Latin!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


THE ART OF HISTORY
BY HENRIETTA DRAKE-BROCKMAN
PERTH ART GALLERY has been to
the fore this year in mounting some
unusual shows. During the Summer
Festival writers arranged readings
of West Australian works, and on other
evenings the A.B.C. produced pro-
grammes of Australian music. Now the
trustees of the Gallery have acquired and
are currently showing a large number of
original drawings by artists of The
Bulletin.
For several decades black-and-white art
has been out of favor as home-decoration
and neglected by galleries ; in particular,
the penmanship that brought fame to
masters of the last century, such as
Gustave Dore, has received scant atten-
tion. This lapse may be due to the decline
of adult book-illustration and the better
techniques of color-reproduction ; yet it is
hard to justify, for no era has seen more
political cartooning. And the cartoonist
of distinction has not only to illustrate
but also to illuminate and comment at the
same time, using all his talent for subtlety
yet making sure his thrust goes home.
The Perth exhibition comprises
Bulletin works only ; the entire lower
gallery is filled with 260 drawings. Thirty
artists are represented, covering a period
1893-1956.
The oldest humorous drawing is a joke-
illustration (referring to a Coolgardie
murder) done in wash and pencil by
George Lambert in 1895, portraying a
goldfields schoolmaster in a stiff collar.
Sixty years later, Unk White recalls the
Henry Moore exhibition (held in the
same gallery) by a clean line vision of a
youngster pea-shooting through the vast
open spaces of modern sculpture at an
earnest art-instructor.
Arranged chronologically, the cartoons
make the history of the last half-century,
both at home and overseas, literally rise
before one’s eyes, “Hop” (1893), Norman
Lindsay, Leason, Scorfield and “Heth”
summarise, sometimes savagely, some-
times humorously, invariably with that
ironic wit so truly Australian, the policies
and events that have shaped our lives.
Nor can one help wondering how much
these keen black-and-white comments
have in their turn also influenced Aus-
tralian thought.
The consistently brilliant execution and
electric imagination of Norman Lindsay
dominate the show: the majority of the
cartoons dealing with World Wars I and
11, so many well-recollected, are his. As
also the famous (Invulnerable) drawing of
Woodrow Wilson, cringing before a sharp-
shooting Mexican President in 1912 and
crying, as he loses his Notes: “Almighty
dollars, what can I do? This dangerous
creature is illiterate.”
Percy Leason is also largely represented,
with almost an entire section covering the
depression. His splendid penmanship and
love of detail, so admirably controlled that
“BULLETIN” BLACK-AND- WHITE
George Lambert, 1903
it never obscures, claim immediate atten-
tion when seen thus in the originals. A
superb example is “The Ecclesiastical
Hunt.”
Will Dyson, David Low, Hal Gye,
Frith, George Finey, Dubois, Red Moore
and many other famous and familiar
names sign caricatures of equally famous
and familiar men, most of them having
particular W.A. interest. Will Dyson’s
well-known chalk-and-wash sketch of
“Big John” Forrest and David Low’s pen-
and-inks of Phil Collier, when Minister of
Mines for W.A., and of “Riley, Bishop of
Perth, 1914,” must send many minds
nostalgically tumbling backwards —the
drawing of Riley is probably one of the
best likenesses ever penned by Low. It
is a masterpiece of its kind.
To students of history as well as to the
general public, and to all young artists
who properly estimate the virtue of good
drawing, this show should prove an out-
standing attraction. The earliest Norman
Lindsay has on the back, “Paid Oct. 25th,
1900,” as well as, pasted on, a letter to
“Dear Mr. Archibald” from 53 Simpson
St., East Melb., written in a roundish
youthful hand, and beginning “How will
the accompanying drawing do for the one
you asked for the Xmas number?” Its
title is “Things we’re sorry for when we’re
sober,” and is a sort of Rake’s Progress
in retrospect.
It affords interesting comparison with
the artist’s later works: say, for instance,
the magnificent simplicity and drawing of
symbolic animals in a Russian Bear
cartoon of 1918. In one visit, however, it
is impossible to differentiate between
general interest and artistic merit; perhaps
it should always be so with the art of
cartooning, at its best.
At the opening, Board of Trustees
member Claude Hotchin told the Chief
Justice, the Lord Mayor, other distin-
guished guests and members of the public
that the exhibition was one of the high-
lights of the year and put the W.A.
Gallery in the forefront of all Australian
galleries in regard to collections of this
nature. This achievement was due solely
to the inspiration and initiative of the
president of the board of trustees, Mr.
Justice Wolff, and to the proprietors of
The Bulletin.
When he first thought of beginning such
a collection, the president had written to
Mr. W. N. Prior asking if it were possible
to obtain or two cartoons. He was
told in reply that the W.A. Gallery was
the first to make such a request, and was
invited to Sydney to make a selection, with
the remarkable result now visible. It was
natural, therefore, that the board should
wish the president to open the show.
Judge Wolff said that he had always
hankered after black-and-white because
(Continued on page 57)


POLITICAL POINTS
It seems to be becoming a common-
place for U.K. officials to leave brief-
cases containing top-secret documents on
buses, in restaurants or railway-carriages.
Opinion is divided as to whether this
indicates increasing absent-mindedness
among civil servants or whether it’s just
that too many documents are now
labelled top-secret.
• •
Discussing an ironworker’s decision to
stand against the Doc. for the Hunter
preselection, the Victorian A.L.P.
monthly journal says there’s a great deal
of effort being developed by Certain
People Still in the Labor Movement to
see that the Doc. gets opposition.
The great democratic party doesn’t
sound overly democratic in its official
publications these days. 'What the Labor
apparently wants is a pre-
preselection, with only The Leader stand-
ing, and other democrats standing aside.
• •
Legislation to cover the Weipa project
for the development of bauxite deposits
on Cape York Peninsula will come before
the Queensland Parliament this week.
Mines Minister Evans describes the plan
as the biggest single mining undertaking
ever proposed in Australia.
• •
Now Darwin is really civilised. Its first
brewery was opened last week.
• •
A British firm, the Nuclear, Power
Plant Co., of which South Australian-
born Sir Claude Gibb is president, has
won a contract to construct a £3O-million
atomic power-plant in Northern Italy.
This will be about double the size of
Calder Hall. Two years ago experts at
the Geneva Atoms-for-Peace conference
predicted that it would be 1962 before any
of the Big Three Powers would be in a
position to sell nuclear power-stations
abroad.
• •
J. M. McMahon, M.L.A. for Balmain
since 1950, won the N. S. Wales caucus
ballot for the Cabinet vacancy caused by
the death of Minister for Agriculture
Eddie Graham. He becomes Minister
without Portfolio. J. B. Simpson has
been sworn-in. as Minister for Mines and
Roger Nott as Minister for Agriculture.
• •
There are to be discussions in Decem-
ber between Nehru of India and
Bandaranaike of Ceylon on the possibility
of summoning another conference of the
Afro-Asian “Bandung Powers,” this time
for Colombo. The Middle East situation,
especially as between Turkey and Syria,
has been mentioned as one of the sub-
jects for discussion, and there would pro-
bably be some verbal brickbats launched
at Israel.
• •
Fears that the supply of Rhesus
monkeys may not be able to meet the
continued demand for Salk anti-polio
vaccine have been • answered by Sir
Macfarlane Burnet, who says that in an
emergency rabbits could be used for the
purpose.
• •
Queensland Attorney-General Munro
has undertaken to tackle the task of new
electoral rolls. In the Supply debate he
said it was unsatisfactory to have separate
rolls for Commonwealth and State pur-
poses. Most States had a uniform roll
controlled by the Commonwealth autho-
rities and used by the States subject to
the making of provision for differing
boundaries. The system seemed to work
satisfactorily and was worthy of in-
vestigation.
• •
Commonwealth Railways made a work-
ing-profit of £1,364,337 in 1956-57 com-
pared with £1,565,058 in the previous
year. Profit on the East-West line was
lower than in 1955-56, but the Port
Augusta to Alice Springs line showed a
substantial improvement. Losses were
sustained on the North Australian line
and the Canberra-Queanbeyan line.
• •
N. S. Wales executive of the A.L.P. is
still trying to get the Cahill Government
to switch its banking business from the
private banks to the Commonwealth and
Rural Banks. Latest move is a decision to
ask Cahill to ask the two Government
banks if they are willing to take-over the
accounts. When a similar proposal was
made last June it was explained that the
Commonwealth Bank couldn’t give the
same service as trading-banks because it
didn’t have as many branches.
• •
Exports of Holden cars are expected
to reach 4500 this year. New Zealand
will take more than half this number ;
the rest will go to South-east Asia and
East Africa.
• • /
Discharge of a Melbourne jury when
it was found that one of the jurors had
a criminal record recalls the story of the
man who was empanelled in the jury on a
case in which he himself was the defen-
dant. Rebuking him for not having
pointed out the mistake before the trial
began, the judge said, “Surely you must
have known you couldn’t sit on the jury
in your own case?” “Well, y’r Honor,”
replied the bloke, “I did think it was
rather a stroke of luck.”
Vic. A.L.P. has changed its tune about
the abolition of the Legislative Council
for a reason different from Tom
Dougherty’s party-colleagues in N.S.W.
who like the privileges of the club.
“The acceptance of adult franchise for
the Council in Victoria may have altered
our argument,” says Tripovich, Victorian
secretary, uncertainly. Not to mention
the current majority, with the C.P., in
the Upper House.
• •
“Doormat”: Recent noisy exchanges
in Federal Parliament remind me of the
smart crack by (I think) Adlai Stevenson,
that “a politician is a man who
approaches every problem with an open
mouth.”
• •
At long last Melbourne City Council,
including even the representatives of the
two Labor parties, has agreed unani-
mously to a proposal—to give a block
of land in Kensington to the Housing
Commission .as the site for pensioners’
flats and residences.
Now there are demands that suburban
councils should do the same, for pen-
sioners whose financial plight is sadden-
ing, The middle-class suburbs of
Melbourne have done very little for the
aged poor ; the amenities are chiefly pro-
vided by the rich City Council and the
poor industrial municipalities.
\ * *
Change of Government doesn’t seem
to have affected Queensland Assembly-
men’s flair for elegant debate.
Mr. Walsh (Q.L.P.), referring to a hotel in
the Gregory electorate: A.L.P. men did not
condemn that licensee. That would go for the
honorable member for Hinchinb'rook (Mr.
Jesson), too.
Mr. jesson: Oh, go on.
Mr. Walsh: He has a freehold hotel.
Jesson: 1 have not got as many shares in the
West Burleigh picture-theatre as you have.
Walsh : 1 challenge the honorable member to
produce any evidence that 1 have had more than
a 3s. 2d. dividend from any company in the
State. He is at liberty to do it if he can.
Jesson: I should like to see your income-tax.
Walsh: He can have my income-tax. I would
not be in alf the rackets he has been in, particu-
larly the Green Parrot.
Jesson: 1 would like to have a look at your
list of Commonwealth bonds.
Walsh: As a matter of fact the honorable
member cait have a look at that, too. My
book is an open book.
Jesson: You had better read it.
Walsh: -If he wants me to discuss the Green
Parrot ....
Jesson: Well, go. on and discuss it. Discuss it
outside the House with me, you great big sook.
Walsh: Perhaps I would be allowed to dis-
cuss it, because anything affecting the operation
of the Auctioneers and Commission Agents’ Act
comes under the jurisdiction of the Justice
Department.
Jesson: All right, discuss it outside the House.
You are not game to. You are a big dill, that’s
all. You are a big mug. You are a big louse.
Discuss outside the House.
Walsh: That’s the type of person who is
going round demanding that others should
improve their standards.
Jesson: lam not going around. I have never
opened my mouth, but I will.
Walsh: lam not stopping the honorable
member from opening it. It will be too bad
for him if I open mine.
Jesson: You open it. I challenge you to open
it! ... Go on, and I will open mine on you.
Walsh: The honorable member can do what
ever he likes-.


With bushfires in the Blue Mountains
at their worst for years firefighters worked
like galley-slaves throughout the weekend.
In seems incredible that in such circum-
stances their work should be hampered
by thoughtless motorists who came, not
to help, but merely to gawk at the burning
countryside, apparently regarding the dis-
aster as a spectacle staged for their
entertainment.
• •
Federal Labor members are saying
that when they are returned to office they
will repeal the new banking legislation—
which isn’t passed yet —and restore the
Commonwealth Bank to its present posi-
tion. Apparently they have forgotten that
it is only a year or so since they strenu-
ously opposed the bills that put it in its
present position.
• •
The Wagga by-election for the N. S.
Wales Assembly is to be held on
December 14 and campaigning has already
opened. There will be five candidates.
Labor has nominated D. Graham, a
nephew of the late member, with the
undisguised intention of angling for the
sympathy vote. In addition it is safe to
say they’ll also benefit to some extent
from the votes of cheerful know-nothings
who don’t even know that Eddie GrahanT
is no longer with us.
Liberal candidate is W. C. Fife and the
Country-party has nominated W. H.
Lampe. On the showing at recent elec-
tions there should be much more support
for the Liberal than for the Country-
party man. The position is further com-
plicated by the#presence of a Democratic
Labor candidate, J. Kennedy, and an
Independent
Party leaders and other heavy artillery
are converging on Wagga this week to
make the contest the most willing the
electorate has known since the good old
days.
• •
Victoria hasn’t had an Ebasco report,
but nonetheless it is going ahead with
the rehabilitation of rolling-stock ; nearly
all of a bill authorising the expenditure
of £10.5 million will be earmarked for
that purpose.
Introducing the bill, Murray Porter,
Assistant Minister, said only £7 million
of it could be spent this financial year
because the loan-funds allocation had
been cut, but the currency of the bill
extends to next year.
• •
As Leader of the Opposition Dr. Evatt
no doubt approved of the savage treat-
ment his followers gave the Reserve Bank
Bill last Thursday, but as an intellectual
he can hardly be proud of the tactics
employed. Still, in recent years he seems
to have shown a greater capacity for
learning from Eddie Ward than for
leading him or teaching him, so it may
not be long before we hear the Doc.
shouting “Sit down, mug!” with the best
of ’em,
The rumor that Mr. Asher Joel pro-
poses to change his name to Noel as a
tribute to the Father Christmases of 1957
who gave him a N.S.W. Legislative
Council seat was probably invented by
some rival in the public-relations game.
• •
Britain and America are firm in their
determination to arm Tunisia to prevent
Communist infiltration, despite France's
bitter opposition. The firmness is due
to the fact that only two of the new
countries to be added to the U.N. Dis-
armament Commission are African —
Egypt and Tunisia. If Khrushchev got
Tunisia by a coup he would have all
African representation in the bag.
• •
Westralia is to give full citizenship
rights to aborigines—except those declared
by a court to be wards of the State. A
bill to give effect to this was introduced
into the W.A. Assembly last week.
■ • •
“C.S.”: Although Brighton is one of
Melbourne’s oldest and most expensive
bayside suburbs, it has never had a repu-
tation for snootiness; the councillors
keep their place, and the ratepayers —
mostly xery independent Liberals indeed
—see that they do. Brighton Council was
one of the first to put New Australian
nationalisation ceremonies on a social
basis, and last week it held a moot —
a community gathering in Brighton Town
Hall at which the councillors, on stage,
faced questions from residents. At Anglo-
Saxon moots the elders gave an account
of their stewardship. Dissatisfaction was
often settled by “trial-by-combat.” In
the modern version, after 48 qutstions
had been- answered, apparently satisfac-
torily, the Brighton Anglo-Saxons had a
nice cup of tea.
• •
The Federal Government is to extend
the chain of strategic airbases round
Australia by lengthening them to take
the world’s heaviest jet-aircraft it is
to be hoped that this salutary develop-
ment will be accompanied by some move
to strengthen the Army ground forces
which will still be needed. Large-scale
jet-aircraft could do little to deal with
a creeping invasion by primitive Indo-
nesians in praus on the pattern of
Japanese operations on the Tenasserim
coast.
• •
Drought conditions are expected to cut
the N. S. Wales wool-clip this season by
about lly per cent, compared with the
estimate made by the Graziers’ Associa-
tion last July.
• •
' Victorian Cabinet has turned down a
suggestion by R. C. Dunstan, M.L.A.
for Mornington, that members, allegedly
snowed-under by paper-work, should
have individual private secretaries instead
of the four allotted to the 82 rank-and-file
members of both Houses. Members get
£2OOO to £2400 a year. Surely some
portion of that is intended as recompense
for paper-work?
HARDLY A WAR-CANOE!


There's a
flight to suit YOU!
Whenever you travel, wherever you travel, there’s always a
TAA VISCOUNT flight to suit you. For your convenience,
TAA operates daily round-the-clock Viscount flights, between
all states. From as far north as Cairns, to Hobart in the south,
right across the nation to Perth in the west, you can fly TAA Viscount.
r*
More people fly
TAA-
the friendly way
Reservations: TAA Booking Offices in all States or any authorised Travel Agent.
NPVSIf
PERSONAL ITEMS
Just as the Eastern States have generous
givers in Hallstrom and Basser, so
Westralia has two men who figure largely
in all appeals, Frank Boan and John D.
K. Roche. Boan’s donations tQ various
appeals in the last 12 months or so
exceed £30,000, whilst Roche’s reach at
least £20,000. Roche did not even miss
the Sydney Opera House Appeal. The
West is not a wealthy State, but it is big-
hearted in matters of charity. Successful
appeals in the last few months include
the Medical School (£450,000), the Blind
Appeal (£120,000) and the Cancer Fund
(£BO,OOO and not yet finished) —mostly
jvithout any Government donation.
• •
“Symonym”: Young Melbourne -poet
Graham Wicks, who earns his daily crust
as a public-relations officer for the Harbor
Trust but has had his creative writing
published in many journals, including The
Bulletin, has won the U.S. Borestan
Award for poetry for 1957. Ernest Hon-
dras, editor of Melbourne University
Magazine, admired the prize-poem,
“Songs of a Spearman,” so much he sub-
mitted it, because of its lyric quality and
without the poet’s knowledge, for the
award after its publication in M.U.M.
In addition to the prestige, th« Borestan
Award is worth 100 dollars. It is open to
undergraduates throughout the world.
Wicks’s piece, which he can’t now recall,
was written after a visit to Eden and
Queensland beaches, where he was spear-
diving, and it is the last poem he has
written. And it was rejected, sirs, by The
Bulletin.
• •
A gentleman came into The Bulletin
office the other day and said he would
like to have the original of a drawing of
himself in a recent issue, giving the name
“Rost.” A quick search failed to reveal
the name in “Personal Items” of the past
few weeks, but it hardly seemed likely the
visitor was mistaken. He volunteered that;
it wasn’t a very good likeness, but he’d
like to have it, anyway. The drawing
turnpd out to be a Scorfield cartoon (B.
6/11/ ’57) —two black crows, labelled
“Valuer-General” and “Death Duties”
respectively, watchfully perched on a
VALUER-GENERAL
bough. Mr. Rost was Rudolph Ostar
Rost, N.S.W. Valuer-General; and,
obviously, a man with a sense of humor.
V.-G. since 1950, he’s been in the depart-
ment since 1919 and in the N.S.W. public
service since 1912, when he joined the
Lands Department. About half of his
valuing time has been in country districts,
mainly in the southern part of the State.
He talked nostalgically of trout-fishing
in Upper Murray and Monaro waters,
appreciatively of families in those parts
that this interviewer happened to know
personally—the Tooma Maginnitys, for
instance —and with a suggestion of pain
concerning the popularisation of his
favorite streams brought about by the
Snowy Scheme. He’s also fond of garden-
ing, particularly interested in trees and
shrubs, and plays bowls at Pymble club.
Complimented on his sense of humor,
he remarked gently that it was easy to be
amused when one felt criticism wasn’t
justified—“lt’s the truth that hurts,
don’t you think?” and mildly mentioned
some of the difficulties of com-
piling what he called “our Domesday
Book”: total recorded valuation
£3,367,000,000 ; 400,000 individual
valuations a year, and a shortage
of trained men. “And, of course, you
can’t please everyone.” He mentioned in
passing, too, that he had once been guilty
of collaborating in a novel —unpublished
and, he said, “terrible’’ —and on that
occasion met A. G. Stephens, the formid-
able Red Page editor. While this conver-
sation was going on Prior sketched what
he hopes is a fairer likeness.
• •
James M. Kirby, recently elected
managing-director and chairman of the
board of West Australian Petroleum
Pty., is in W.A. to begin his new duties
and to make his home in Perth. He
replaces Philip F. Le Fevre, who has been
reassigned to a senior post with Caltex
in New York.
Kirby has had a constant connection
with the Ampol/ Caltex oil-search opera-
tion in W.A. He was, in fact, a member
of the four-man geological party which,
on behalf of Caltex, in 1950, made the
favorable appraisal of the oil possibilities
of W.A. which preceded the affiliation of
Caltex with Ampol in the present Wapet
operations. During the last five years he
has made several visits in an advisory
capacity.
A Californian and a graduate of Stan-
ford University in 1924, he now comes to


Wapet from a senior executive position in
the Exploration Department of American
Overseas Petroleum, Ltd., a jointly owned
subsidiary of the Texas Company and
Standard Oil Co. of California. He has
worked in top geological positions in most
oil-producing areas in the U.S.A., as well
as in Alberta (Canada), and latterly in
several countries east of Suez.
• •
Pat Lawlor: Enclosed in a letter written
to me by Bill Lawson in 1945 1 found a
Christmas-card sent to -him the previous
year by Rod Quinn. It contains some
printed verses, “Our Flag,” but on the
front Rod, had written the following
greeting to his friend:
Colin Hendy, noted Bondi (Sydney) surf-
lifesaver, is home after four years at Aus-
tralia House, London. While in England
Hendy became inaugural president of the
Surf Lifesaving Society of Great Britain,
formed by Australian lifesavers now
working over there. The society includes
six clubs in Cornwall and one in Jersey,
Channel Islands. Hendy, who has been
placed in several Australian belt
championships, captained North Bondi
when that club won the Australian
championship for 1948-49.
• •
“Collins Street”: E. W. R. (Ernie)
Connibere, who died in Melbourne
recently, was the last —and eldest, at 95 —
of one of Melbourne’s most unusual and
richest families. Ernest came to Mel-
bourne with his parents when he was
three. Later Sir Charles, who died in
1941, Frederick, who died in -1945, and
Emma, who also is dead, were born.
Not one of them married, and according
to my information from their long-time
friend and employee, J. R. Robertson,
they have no close relatives.
The Conniberes to date have given
away about £900,000 to deserving causes
in Melbourne, and no doubt the £1 million
in gifts will be passed when Ernest’s will
is settled ; Mr. Robertson, who is the sole
administrator, estimates it will be proved
between a quarter and half a million. The
Conniberes were well-known Flinders
Lane traders until they sold "out in 1923,
when the imported softgoods trade began
to decline ; they then became real-estate
speculators in city properties.
• •
Sir Ronald Ormiston Sinclair, the 54-
year-old New Zealander who was
admitted to the N.Z. Bar in 1924, and
to the English in 1939, has stepped into
the Chief Justice’s shoes in Kenya,
vacated by Sir Kenneth O’Connor, now
president of the Court of Appeal. The
new C.J., who filled some big jobs in
Nigeria, was vice-president of the Court
of Appeal for Eastern Africa.
• •
John Francis, Dean of the Faculty of.
Veterinary Science, Queensland Uni-
versity, since 1955, is a 42-year-old
Englishman who graduated in 1938 from
the Royal Veterinary College, put in a
couple of years as demonstrator in
bacteriology there, was appointed
research-officer at the Foot and Mouth
Disease Research Centre, and later
joined 1.C.1.’s biological division. He was
awarded a Doctor of Science degree by
VETERINARY DEAN
London University for research-work, on
bovine tuberculosis, sulphonamides and
antibiotics, particularly l a paper he con-
tributed to the “Lancet” on the use of the
B.C.G. vaccine for tuberculosis led to
trials by the British Medical Research
Council, and encouraged the adoption of
the treatment for humans. During the
last couple of years Professor Francis has
been very interested in the Queensland
University Farm. He’s recently back from
a lecture-tour to Gladstone, Rockhamp-
ton and Mackay, visiting properties on the
way, including Belmont, the national
cattle-breeding centre at Rockhampton.
• •
One of the youngest men in a very
young science in Australia, automation, is
Kodak’s Thomas Robertson Laidlaw. At
27, he is time-and-motion engineer for the
big company, associated in planning plant-
layout, and a teacher in automation at a
technical college. He was educated and
took his degrees in southern England and
before he joined Kodak was with G.M.-
Holden and private consultants. Time-
and-motion engineering was established
in the U.K. and U.S. before the war but
has made slow progress in Australia, not
merely because of the opposition of
unions, but also because Australian
employers regarded it, until the last few
years, with apathy and, in some cases,
distrust.
• •
From V. G. Vivash, Melbourne:
Time must have dimmed “P.D.’s” recollec-
Uons of the old Westralian mining town of
Youanmi—-Gordon Warrick, not “Warwick J ’
was the manager, and Bert Sellars, not “Sellon,”
was the underground boss.
1 arrived on the site on June 10, 1935 —quite
? while before many of the moving sfeekers of
j.obs arrived—and left in 1937 to return to my
principal s office (Charles Ruwolt Pty., Ltd.) in
Melbourne. “P.D.” may remember me as
honorary secretary of the Youanmi Hospital,
which really did take a lot of my spare time
and which work 1 thrived on and enjoyed,
burely, also, he remembers Lofty Moore and
Pat Troy (union rep.) and Ted Doherty of the
Jrading Company, and latqr Tom Chalker of the
Mine Host fame, who, by the way, is now
secretary of the C.T.A. in Perth. I’ve for-
gotten a lot of names, too, but over the 22
years Tve kept up a correspondence with these
fine people of the West. I often meet in Mel-
bourne Dr. Tom Gilbert, Matron Hawker (now
Mrs. Wheatley), Peter Slee (Ruwolt's surface
foreman), Stan Roberts, Herb Shellam,
manager of the Bank of Australasia (now
A.N.Z.), who is quartered at Bendigo. Dr.
Gilbert has just recently been transferred as 2 i/c
at the Repat. in Melbourne —in fart, it was he
who forwarded the cutting from The Bulletin
to me with the assurance that he was quite una-
ware of the “party” at the hospital to which
“P.D.” refers. It was a tough old town full of
kindly people, including Percy Johnston, the
constable of 6ft. 4in. and 17st. —before any
constable was appointed at Youanmi George
Flanders had to come from Sandstone to quell
the frequent disturbances.
• •
Home again after more than six years
in the U.K., Bruce Rosier was Westralian
Rhodes Scholar for 1950. While abroad
he put in three years at Oxford and an
extra year at the Cambridge Theological
College. He was ordained in 1954 and
will now fill the Anglican pulpit at
Wyalkatchem in the Westralian inland.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, Colonel K. A. Best, director
of the Women’s Royal Australian Army Corps.
In World War II she was matron of the 2/sth
A.G.H. in the Middle East, afterwards being
appointed controller of the Australian Army
Medical Women’s Service.
In Concord Repatriation Hospital, at 67, Col.
C. G. L. Ingate, C.O. of the 2/sth Field Regi-
ment in the Middle East in War 11.
In- Melbourne, Professor Arthur Schuller,
brain-surgeon. Austrian-born, he came to Aus-
tralia in 1939 and had been at St. Vincent’s
Hospital, Melbourne, since 1940.
In Sydney, at 50, Dr. T. Wunderlich, a son of
the Dr. Otto Wunderlich who was one of the
founders of Wunderlich, Ltd.
In Adelaide, at 58, Frank H. Harrison, a lead-
ing S.A. engineer. At his death managing-
director of Austral Sheet "Metal Works, Ltd.,
he had been chief mechanical-engineer of S.A.
Railways for 13 years, and in War II was area
controller for S.A. of aircraft-production. He
also played an important part in opening-up
Leigh Creek coalfield.
In Sydney, at 82, Sir Frederick Trollope,
former manager of the Commercial Bank’s legal
and security department. In 1937 he succeeded
"to the baronetcy of Casewick.
In Sydney, at 64, George Thatcher, well-known
sportswriter. Sporting-editor of the old
“Labor Daily,” more recently he had been with
the “Telegraph” and “S. M. Herald.” A first-
grade cricketer in earlier years.
Whenever I read your lines
Though far from the coast I be,
I vision bronzed sailor-men
Abroad on the briny sea.
And when through the crowded town
My way I elbow and push,
I think of some verse wherein
You voice the peace of the bush,
Though little of gold you own,
Oh mate of the Austral lyre,
The sea and the bush are yours—
What more could your soul desire?


ABORIGINALITIES
"BANJO'S" ORIGINAL?
TN B. 13/11/’57 T. W. Mitchell asks
about “The Man From Snowy River’s
Last Ride.” I wonder if this is the ballad
he refers to? It was given to me by
Arthur Davis, of Cullenbone (N.S.W.),
who copied it from an old notebook of his
mother’s. The introductory note shows
that there were other claimants to the
title of being “Banjo’s” original:
When the man from Snowy River
Saw the last fence straight ahead,
And the race of life for him was nearly
done,
What thousand shapes of memory
Were crowded round his bed
Of old-time races lost and races won.
The sick man stirred a little
And the watching nurses bent
For the whisper that upon the silence
thrills;
And the man from Snowy River,
Though his strength was nearly spent,
Said, I d like to see my brother from the
hills.”
Then out to Adaminaby
The word was quickly sped
Of a horseman who was dying far away,
Who was longing for a message
From his kinsfolk, mountain bred,
To bring the mountain air to where he lay.
And a horse was quickly saddled,
Of the stout Monaro breed
That can journey from the dawn till set of
sun,
And keep going in the darkness
Where the hardest roads may lead,
Till the longest ride and weariest is done.
They were sleeping in Kiandra
And he barely saw a light,
As he trotted past the watchdog’s lonely
bark,
And he battled through the mountains
In the middle of the night
And he passed Yarrangobilly in the dark.
He was running down the ranges
When the daylight came again,
And when the sun was climbing in the
sky,
They had locked their hands together
Had the two Monaro men,
And the man from Snowy River said
goodbye.
I have heard this recited by bushmen
on a couple of occasions, but have not
been able to trace the author.
T HAVE seen men fighting bushfires by
-*■ belting straight down with their
beaters, thus scattering sparks and burn-
ing grass everywhere. The only correct
way is to beat in towards the already-
burnt country. Many beaters use boughs
of trees, which are better than nothing,
but that’s all. The best beater, on a
smooth hoe-handle, is a greenhide flap
braced with hoopiron. A basil also is
good, tied on a handle. Kersey, or
saddle-cloth, is the best rag beater. I
had one which was still usable, though
frayed and worn, after a week’s use. Wet
bags and sacks come within the same
category as boughs—they are only
expedients-until something better can be
got. —“Splodger.”
* * *. *
“Miss M.”: A farmer in our district,
while hand-drafting piglets, was so
savagely attacked by a mother-sow that
he had a spell in hospital. Now he's-
threatening to shoot the next grinning
acquaintance who gives him that elegant
old greeting, “ ’Ow’s y’r belly where the
pig bit y’?”
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: The bulging-bicep boys
of the racing axes have a smart new
gimmick that saves time and vast quan-
tities of sin. nails previously used in
standing blocks on their
stumps for woodchop contests. Invented
by Victorian Horrie Harrison, in his own
right a notable axe-wielder, it is a circu-
lar ifin. plate that sits between the stump
and the standing block and with bracketed
set-screws clamps both together with
“One extra for dinner.”
commendable rigidity and startling
expedition.
* * * *
“Manamoi”: Straw-necked ibises, those
most efficient destroyers of injurious in-
sects, receive a lukewarm welcome from
some farmers because of the super-
stition that their appearance in large
numbers foreshadows a drought. This
year, having prophesied truly, they are
as unpopular as Cassandra. The channel-
billed (or storm) cuckoos, on the other
hand, go in danger of their lives because
of their frequent, raucous foretelling of
storms which don’t occur.
* sfc * Jfc
“Pelga”: I doubt whether “Orang
Puteh” really has the right answer about
headgear in the tropics (B. 6/11/’57). In
India the change took place without there
being any p.-0.-w. to lead the fashion.
Before leaving India in 1937 1 used to
wear a pith-helmet on the least provoca-
tion, and firmly believed 1 should be
sunstruck without one. When 1 returned
in the middle of 1941 the revolutionary
idea had been accepted—from then on I
never wore a helmet, and not even an
ordinary hat except on posh occasions.
But, since p.-0.-w. are out, who or what
did start it?
* * * *
“Margaret”: In outback Queensland
we reared dozens of kangaroo-joeys, with
few fatalities. As no scientific advice was
available, we used warm cows’-milk,
diluting it or adding a few drops of
brandy or castor-oil when it seemed
advisable. A bottle was never used in
feeding any of our pets, which included
calves, foals, donkey-foals and numerous
lambs; the extra time consumed in
teaching them to drink from a dish was
more than made up
in quicker and easier
preparation, ability
to feed several at
once (joeys and
lambs often drank
together) and easier
scouring of utensils.
Our only case of par-
tial blindness in a
joey was ascribed to
“pink-eye” (ophthal-
mia). There was
always a green pick
along the irrigation-
drains which sup-
plied trees and shrubs
in the kangaroos’
enclosure, which no
doubt supplied the
necessary vitamins.
The does used their
forepaws to, among
other things, smack
their troublesome
young. Bucks would
box playfully when
quite tiny, and some
full - grown ones
would come and
spar - up whenever
they saw us. A large
’roo, intent on
THE MAN FROM SNOWY RIVER
Mr. Lachlan Cochran, who is declared to
be the hero of “Banjo” Paterson’s “Man
From Snowy River,” died in Cootamundra
Hospital in January, 1920. His brother, Mr.
Neil Cochran, rode 80 miles in 14 hours to
say goodbye. He rode over mountain
country ; traversed the Great Dividing
Range in the darkness through Kiandra and
Yarrangobilly.
J. M.


l+t6, course, is
QO&. -HARfcOUft, ofiac>G£ %
vn ;^N
Tm»5 <$ 71/c: o,
... , * new
M*i-*C. //
v ~ , lkC£ r TMe CoR^P
y°° f QtftTAS?''
%.
7W T*j,S iS ;/
•%?N£y iioSfiXAL.
%*. ZZ^' A/
(5 FtrttS*i£P


finding a sparring partner, can be quite
a hazard to a child painfully learn-
ing to ride a bicycle. One thing we
never saw them do, though, was catch
fish with their forepaws (B. 6/11/’57).
What on earth would such confirmed
vegetarians do with a fish when they’d
caught it?
* * * *
“Tabba”: Shearers have their own
ideas on comb-and-cutter combinations
and cheerfully ignore manufacturers’
recommendations. Each man has his
favorite handpiece, too, but this will not
affect his preference in combs and
cutters. It is common to find a shearer
using, say, a Buzacott handpiece with
Lister comb and Cooper cutter. One
thing the manufacturers agree on is that
shearers are prodigal with combs and
cutters; one Australian manufacturer
alone sells enough to take the fleece off
the country’s entire sheep-population.
* * * *
“Yellow Fire”: I knew Jimmy No-nose
(B. 23/10/’57) as a very old man (well,
he looked old), and he was still poking
with his finger a few shreds of lizard or
wonga into that hole in his face. Perhaps
“Banana” (who wrote about him) also
knew the little gin who belonged to the
same tribe, the one who had been blinded
by finger-cherry. Her eyes were screwed
in different directions and quite blank,
but it was amazing with what agility
she negotiated banks and rocks in the
Beatrice River, their favorite spot for
hunting and fishing, with a piccaninny
occasionally lending a guiding hand. At
that time finger-cherry grew in profusion
on the creeks and rivers in that locality,
but in all the years I knew the tribes
this was the only case of total blindness
I ever saw.
* * * *
“Comber”: “Oera” (B. 6/11/’57) is
certainly right—Donald Dinnie was a
ram ; bought in the early 1900’s for the
then fabulous price of 3000-odd guineas ;
possibly by South Australian breeders
John Collins and Sons. Custom in those
days, instead of denoting a ram as Had-
nook 109, was to name it after some
celebrity. Another about that time was
named after Scott’s character, Dandy
Dinmont.
* * * *
“Myall”: The 34-year-old Australian
record —32,5221 b. of milk and 16141 b. of
butterfat in 365 days, made by the
N.S.W. Ulawarra Shorthorn Melba 15th
of Darbalara, at the age of seven years
nine months —looks like being broken
in the near future. The challenger is
Sunny View Little Princess 20th, owned
by Messrs. J. Phillips and Sons, of
Kingaroy (Q.). Little Princess calved on
July 20 at the age of four years four
months, and in the first 90 days of her
lactation has produced 92131 b. of milk
and 3751 b. of butterfat —about 11 gallons
of milk and 441 b. butterfat per day. All
she has to do is keep that rate of scoring
going for the rest of her year and she’ll
have the record, as it were, in the bag.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: In some ways birds
have the edge on us. They've got built-in
air-conditioning systems which make them
practically immune to cold as long as the
tucker’s there, and they have a mobility
“Mind if I use your fire?”
that can’t be matched elsewhere in the
animal kingdom. Also, they specialise in
sight. A bird’s eye is so much more
complex than man’s that its -owner can
pick up a separate object with each eye
or unite the two to take in a single
object, at will. That gives some of them
a range of almost 360 degrees without
turning the head. Owls, which require
even better, or more specialised, eyesight
than most birds, have sacrificed a great
deal of this range to get better direct
vision, but they have the compensation
of being able to twist the head without
effort to look directly behind them.
There’s one considerable disadvantage:
those wonderful eyes that birds have take-
up so much of the cranium there’s little
room left for brain.
* * * *
The shire council at Mt.
Isa (N.Q.) has been after a poundkeeper,
and offered £2O a week, with no takers.
The use of two horses has been added as
an extra inducement. If this fails, the
council chairman reckons he’ll do the
darned chore himself, or words to that
effect.
* * * •
“Alma”: Used to the N.S.W. Western
Division, where 10,000 acres is a handy-
sized paddock, old Joe took it well
enough when his boss moved into more
closely settled parts, taking Joe along as
an old retainer. Joe held his silence well
enough until the boss started telling how
he intended to plough and sow-down a
certain paddock. At that the old cove
cast his eyes round the unfamiliarly close
boundaries and snorted, “Huh! Give me
a decent long-handled shovel and I’ll toss
the whole bloomin’ place oyer the fence
in ten minutes.”
.** * *
“A.A.”: In The Bulletin a while
back I stated that a 25-mile-long dam
across the Darling flood-plains, above
Wilcannia and between the 200-metre
(660 ft.) contours, would effectively back-up the
Darling floods. As many observant Bulletin
readers probably noted, this should have read
“between the 100-metre (330 ft.) contours,” I
having read the contour scale carelessly. How-
ever, this correction in no way detracts from
the feasibility of the scheme; in fact, the height
of the dam now becomes quite reasonable. By
far the greater part of the dam would consist of
nothing more than an earthen dyke stretching
across the level plains, in a dead-straight line,
like a high railway-embankment. This dyke
would hold back a lake of floodwater covering
several thousand square-miles which could
overflow in a nor’-west direction into desert
country. As examples of engineering on this
heroic scale, the Dutch can show us the
completion of their third Zuider Zee polder (the
polder being an area of land reclaimed from
the sea by a peripheral dyke) roughly 50 miles
in length. The Canadians have decided to join
Prince Edward Island to the mainland by a
giant causeway across the Northumberland
Straits. This causeway will be at least nine
miles long and has to cross a deep-water strait
with depths of up to 10 fathoms. Moreover,
these straits are subject to storms and in winter-
time are filled with pack-ice. In other parts
of the world, schemes approaching the magni-
tude of the Wilcannia Long Dam are in progress
or contemplated, and it is only by a scheme of
this size that the Darling could be harnessed and
its fioodwaters conserved.


'T'HE modern air - conditioned ex-
A Service club lately opened by the
N.S.W. Governor in the hot historic
town of Wentworth is really some-
thing ; ex-Servicewomen have equal
rights with the men ; there is a special
portion where men members may enter-
tain their wives ; and there is one proviso
—they must not leave them alone. Surely
this must make it a club unique! It was
over the century the day I was there,
and was that beer good!—“Sister Ellell.”
“Kelms”: News that some
European researchers have
“bred - back” to produce a
native horse which became
extinct a couple of centuries
ago raises the question of
how far this process could
be carried. Could it be
extended back to the original
“horse,” Eohippus ? That
was an animal about a foot
high, with comparatively
sharp teeth and many-toed
feet; a poor runner and
apparently not much of a
fighter ; but it survived and
evolved and branched out,
as all animal-life did, and
every so often along the line
•—every 100,000 years or so
—it left a skeleton where it
would be preserved and
would be found to show 20th-
century man how the horse,
the donkey and the zebra all
evolved from a common, tiny
progenitor. Evolution from
Eohippus to Phar Lap’s
immediate ancestors took
millions of years of Nature’s
selective breeding, and breed-
ing-back would be a long
road, even if possible.
“Bitie”: Even the insects seem to have
been fooled this season. Saw a green
cabbage-butterfly caterpillar on top of a
pile of eggs (which I presume it had
laid), covering each one with yellow silk
which it had spun. Evidently it sensed
that there would be no time for the usual
metamorphosis and decided to skip it.
The white butterflies have been gone for
some time.
* * * •
“Joanne”: In the swampy Gulf of
Papua big money is being made in the
extraction of the tanning essence cutch
from mangrove-bark. Exported to the
U.S. and Japan, cutch is used on fishing-
nets. Australian oil-prospecting firms
operating in New Guinea are also using
it in liquid form for bore work; the
cutch breaks-up the soil and makes for
a faster, easier penetration.
* * * #
VX7ELL, shearing is over for another
’ * year. Thank heaven we got by this
year without a break in the weather. I’ve
just got to get Bert to give me a hand
to move the long deal table out of the
diningroom and rearrange the furniture,
and the house will be back to normal—
well, almost.
The men have had tea and are packing.
So, for another 12 months I don’t have to
remember that Jim likes his tea dark and
not too hot (and so pour it early) and to
have Alex’s second helping of meat and
vegetables ready before I serve the others
their pudding.
F° r another year I won’t have to bake
cakes, rock-buns and scones by the
“Pop —why are birds’ knees always on the back of their legs?”
batches, only to see them disappear in
minutes, nor have to remember not to
include rich fruit-cake in the lunch-
basket, because it gives shearers heart-
burn.
I shall miss the kitchen’s continual smell
of fresh baking, for somehow shearing-
time brings smells all of its own —greasy
wool still lingering around the chairs and,
mingled with the mint-sauce left over
from the midday roast, battling it out
with the scent of the lovely blackboy
roses on the sideboard.
As I watch the men making their way
back to the house for their cheques I can
guess by the half-smile on Bert’s face that
they’re chiacking him on how he’s going
to blow-up his wool-cheque. Myself, /
was planning on built-in cupboards and a
stainless-steel sink as my share of the
wool-cheque, but—you never know.
The men have now said goodbye to
Bert, and make their way to shake hands
with “The Missus” and thank me for
feeding them so well.
I wish to be remembered to Jean and
the kiddies and hope the change of
climate agrees with John’s asthma. I
remember to send Mary home some cui-
tings of my yellow daisy and tell Jim
not to leave them in the car for a week
before he gives them to her. I remind
Jim that he’s promised me a hatful of
new potatoes next shearing,
Of course Alex (a confirmed bachelor)
can’t get away until I ask him when he
is going to find himself a wife he can bring
along to help me out in the house,
The goodbyes over, Bert and I lean on
the gate and watch as the old car goes
chugging down the road, then Bert goes
back to the shed to turn the last of the
sheep into the paddock, while I go back
to the kitchen to wash and dry the huge
pile of dishes, noticing as I do so that the
sun has gone down red, which means
another hot day tomorrow.
Washing-up done, I think that the nicest
part about shearing is that the meals are
always on time and you have nice long
evenings— not like harvest-time . . .
The day is over, Bert is making a
rough estimate of what his wool-cheque
will be. I remember I’ve no chips in for
the morning, so I set out to fill my apron
from the outside woodbox, but the night
is so lovely that I stroll around the garden
instead.
The wistaria growing over the old dairy
is in full bloom and trying to outdo the
lovely blackboy for sweetness, while even
from here I can smell the strongly
scented yellow broom, from the bottom
of the garden.
The light from the men’s hut flickers
out—much earlier than usual. Hugh—
the only one left —is turning-in.
COWYARD KATE.


Business.Rollery. ETC.
B.C.C. STORES HOLDING CO., LTD.
HPHE name of the present
vigorous and expansive
B.C.C. Stores Holding Co.,
Ltd., derives from Brisbane
Cash and Carry Stores,
founded by C. A. Fraser, the
present chairman, in 1921. It
has developed into a dynamic
chain *of self-service stores,
foodstuffs predominating, on
the supermarket principle,
with three retail-stores in
metropolitan Brisbane, 17 in
the suburbs and 11 in Queens-
land country areas extending
north to Rockhampton, west to
Toowoomba and south to
Warwick and the Gold Coast.
A store was opened in Mackay
during November.
At the outset groceries only
were sold self-service, but over
the years the smaller sections,
such as smallgoods, delica-
tessen, cakes and confectionery
have been converted, and now
the stores are completely self-
service.
In the larger units it is
possible for a customer also to
buy fruit and vegetables (pre-
packed and self-service) and
fresh meat, but meat sections,
separate entities within the
stores, are leased to master-
butchers who operate on the
service plan. In these larger
units a housewife can buy the
whole of her foodstuff require-
ments. Household hardware is
also included in today’s range.
The progress of the business
has attracted inter-State invest-
ment attention since registra-
tion as a public co. in 1950
and the conversion of 120,000
10s. 5 p.c. prefs. into ords. in
1951.
At June 30, 1951, paid
capital was £300,000. Since
then great development has
taken place (turnover has
trebled), but has involved a
capita 1-increase o f only
£208,318 (to £508,318). Mort-
gage money has provided
£223,400 and ploughed-back
profits no less than £610,244.
Over the six-year period
profits (after tax) have aggre-
gated £769,171, of which
£207,236 has been distributed in
dividends, and £561,935 has
been retained in the business.
In addition, there have been
pre-profit transfers to con-
tingency reserves.
The div.-rate moved up from
6 p.c. in 1952 to 8 p.c. in
1953 and 1954 ; it was lifted to
9 p.c. in 1955, 11} p.c. in 1956
and 12 p.c. last year (interim
5| p.c.,. final 6} p.c.).-
Last term consolidated net
profit was shown at £175,379
(up £19,861), after providing
£55,948 for depreciation, £7900
for contingencies and £132,200
for taxation (up £3200).
The tax provision was
enough to meet co.-tax liability
on a tax-paid profit of
£220,330, so it is clear that
profits in the accounts are con-
servatively estimated; or, at
least, make provision for the
capital-erosion that is likely
to occur under the Taxation
Department’s present system of
inadequately allowing for
depreciation.
The profit claimed, however,
was equal to 34.5 p.c. on paid
capital, compared with 34.6 p.c.
in the preceding year, so that
the 12 p.c. distribution was
exceptionally well covered.
The management provides a
most. useful summary of
statistics relating to the opera-
tions of the business, an
extract of which is provided
hereunder:
Summary of Consolidated Balance-
Sheets.
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £449,665 £508,338
Reserves and unappropriated
profits —
General . .. 455,824 580,824
Contingencies 26,500 34,400
Profit and loss 40,358 33,355
Shareholders ’
.funds .. .. £972,347 £1,156,897
Loans on mortgage 135,900 223,400
Total shareholders’
funds and loans
on moitgage. . £1,108,247 £1,380,297
Used in the business
as follows —
Stocks . . 559,483 720,949
Sundry debtors,
deposits and
prepayments 19,251 22,843
Cash . . . . 246,952 183,565
Current assets .. £825,686 £927,357
Current liabilities 543,361 573,348
Working capital £282,325' £354,009
Long'-serv ice-leave
provision . . —5,414 —6,645
Fixed assets (net) 750,512 952,109
Intangible asset . 80,824 80,824
£1,108,247 £1,380,297
Summary of Operations.
Year Ended
1956. 1957.
Total revenue ~ £6,226,570 £7,202,301
Profit after tax 155,518 175,379
Ratio to total
revenue (p.c.) 2.498 2.435
Ratio to capital
(P-c.) .. 34.585 34.502
Ratio to share-
holders’ funds
(tangible) (p.c.) 17.445 16.298
Tax provision .. 129,000 132,200
Dividends . . 45,000 57,645
Retained in busi-
ness ... .. 110,518 117,734
While the ratio of profit to
turnover has been cut from
2.88 p.c. in 1955 to 2.5 p.c. in
1956 and 2.435 p.c. last year,
the ratio to paid capital has
been well maintained. In rela-
tion to shareholders’ funds
(tangible) the ratio has
dropped from 20.5 p.c. in 1955
to 17.445 p.c. in 1956 and 16.3
p.c. last year, but the effect of
reserve build-up has helped to
maintain the ratio to capital.
The reduction in the profit-
margin in relation to turnover
“But surely he could leave everything to his de facto wife
without his interfering family knowing !”
has been deliberate in order to
make prices to the consumer
as competitive as possible, and
from the shareholders’ point of
view the policy has paid-off
over the years. The increase
in turnover last year was 15.5
P-c.
As to the growth of £161.466
in stocks last term, the board
reports that the usual close
control was exercised, and that
the holding at the end of the
year “was reasonable, bearing
in mind the importance of
ensuring a continuity of sup-
plies for an expanding business
—it is essential that stocks be
kept at a level consistent with
good customer-service.”
Further new stores have been
opened during the current term,
and distribution-centres are
being modernised and mechan-
ised, and, as usual, “financed
largely from within,” though
additional mortgage borrowings
have been arranged, too.
At last balance-day the 10s.
ords. had a net tangible back-
ing of 225. Bd. on book-values
that are obviously conservative.
The market currently, prices the
scrip at 315., at which figure the
return is 3.9 p.c. on a 12 p.c.
div. basis. The div., as indi-
cated, is very well covered, and
could well move up gradually
(by straightout increase or
through issues) over the next
few years even though the
board should continue with
its sound policy of financing
a considerable part of present-
day expansion out of retained
profits.
_
Trouble Brewing
TPHE case of Grafton Brewery
would present the Cahill
Government in N.S.W. with
an awkward crisis if it were
not experienced at handling
crises—it has already weathered
the Doyle-Arthur crisis, the
municipal-scandal crisis, the
press-gag crisis, the police-
bashing crisis, the release-of-
prisoners crisis, the Speaker
Lamb crisis, the Metropolitan
Cement and Rural Bank crisis,
the drive-in picture-show crisis,
and a few others, some of
which would have wrecked any
ordinary Government.
The Grafton people estab-
lished their own brewery. It
brews an excellent and refresh-
ing beer, so good that some
leading Sydney clubs are
anxious to get it, but for
reasons which need not be
canvassed can’t succeed.
The company’s accounts,
however, show a loss of £82,589
for the year ended June 30,
compared with a profit of
£43,252 for the previous year,
and the reverse is certainly not
due to either the quality of its
product or the natural demand
for it.
The company’s chairman,
Mr. Lander, said recently that
the brewery’s trading future
was doubtful, and that this
position would continue “so
long as restrictive trade prac-
tices associated with the ‘tied-
house’ system continued and
while the company’s competi-
tors received freight-conces-
sions.”
A statement by the co.


Cap, T*lf
QUEENSLAND
★jr
NX
NEW SOUTH WALES
*
VICTORIA
JZ
Portland
"From
Cape York
to
Portland"-
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Norman J. Carson,
C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton. General Manager:
John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams. Resident Officer
for Northern Victoria and the Riverina: S. L. G. MacDonald,
Albury,
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell. K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. F. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: A. B. Tilemann. Assistant Manager: A. G. W.
Dent. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District Repre-
sentative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson-
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT23
declared that it had been com-
pelled to deliver its bulk-beer
free of freight-charges to all its
customers in northern N.S.W.
and to reduce the wholesale
price by 4d. per gallon, causing
a gross-income loss of £70,000
a year, because of the freight-
concessions enjoyed by the two
big Sydney breweries under
bulk-loading contracts and the
manipulation of wholesale and
retail prices.
When the brewery began
business, it declared, it was
able to compete with Sydney
beers on local landed cost; but
in 1953 a bulk-loading contract
as between Sydney and Lis-
more was introduced covering
the whole of the beer supplied
from the two Sydney breweries
to north-coastal N.S.W.
The landed cost of beer
under this contract was. reduced
—it might have been added at
a time when general freights
were skyrocketing—by the rail-
ways by £5 a ton, or 10s. an
18-gallon keg, giving the publi-
cans the equivalent of |d.-a-
lOoz. glass advantage in profit
over the local beer, not passed
on to the consumer.
On the basis of 100 tons of
beer a week from Sydney to
Lismore, it was alleged that
the railways lost £25,000 a year.
It was delivered to Lismore,
530 miles from Sydney, at the
same price that it was delivered
to Taree, 230 miles. That the
differential charges were aimed
at Grafton was shown by the
fact that Lismore got its Sydney
beer at a freight £3 per ton
cheaper than Inverell, an equal
distance from Sydney, where
there was no local effective
competition with Sydney beer.
Moreover, it appears that
empty kegs from the Sydney
breweries were carried home-
ward free.
Complaint to the Railways
Department and a request that
the Grafton brewery be placed
on an equality with the Sydney
breweries proved “abortive.”
The Grafton A.L.P. took
the matter up when the brewery
dismissed 100 employees, but
Mr. Cahill says indignantly
that any suggestion that there
was a clash between the State
A.L.P. executive and the Gov-
ernment on the breweries issue
was a “fabrication.” He said
that the executive had referred
to him representations from
Grafton, which he had agreed
to examine, and had requested
reports from the Attorney-
General and the Minister for
Transport. The Railways De-
partment says it has no contract
direct with the breweries for
bulk-loading arrangements, but
“a number of contractors
obtained trucks at bulk-loading
rates by taking the full space
in the trucks.” And the
authorities had “gone out of
their way” to help Grafton
brewery, and had offered it
special concessions if it would
deliver by rail, but it preferred
to deliver by road, and had
said its delivery distances were
too short to warrant rail
delivery.
Mr. Cahill is presumably still
inquiring into something that
has been in vogue for four
years without exciting any Gov-
ernment interest in spite of
the strenuous protests from
Grafton, and so is the A.L.P.
executive.
Whatever the result, it will
not matter. The Cahill Gov-
ernment has no reputation to
lose and is quite shameless.
And whatever happens it has no
chance of winning seats around
Grafton or Lismore.
Optical Industries, Ltd.
A YEAR ago The Bulletin,
noting the 9 p.c. yield then
offering on the 10s. shares of
Optical Industries, Ltd.,
tendered the comment that the
10 p.c. dividend seemed to be a
comfortable matter, that
finances were easy, that book-
values appeared to be con-
servative, that the co.’s business
seemed to be an essential one,
and that the 9 p.c. yield then
offering looked to be sounder
than many other 9 p.c.s then
offering.
Since then the shares have
risen in the market from 11s.
to 16s. 6d., and the yield has
come down to 6 p.c. on the
unchanged div.-rate.
But in the meantime the cover
for the div. has increased
appreciably, and the backing
for the shares has strengthened.
Business-expansion goes on at
a brisk pace, and at the annual
meeting chairman George
Lane said that increased
funds would be required to
maintain the policy of
modernisation, development
and expansion. The board, he
said, was considering these
needs, particularly for the
manufacturing side of the
business and the establishment
of suitable premises in some
capital cities.
At present the co. has 38
branches —24 in N.S.W., nine
in Victoria, two in Queensland,
two in S.A. and one in Perth
(W.A.).
Its manufacturing cos. are
O.P.S.M. Laboratories Pty.,
Ltd., Spectacle Makers Pty.,
Ltd. (both of Sydney), O.P.S.M.
Laboratories Pty., Ltd. (Mel-
bourne), and O.P.S.M.
Laboratories Pty., Ltd.
(Brisbane).
The chief operating concern
is Optical Prescriptions
Spectacle-makers Pty., Ltd.
The organisation manufactures
spectacles and makes-up
optical prescriptions. It has
its own lens-manufacturing
and frame-making companies,
and controls a wide distribution
to the public through branches.
Manufacturing is principally
carried out in Sydney, but
there are subsidiaries also in
Melbourne and Brisbane.
For the year to June 30 last,
after charging £17,325 for


THC All-BRITISN
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib! •
1
'//A
w
Wa
Prices from
29/6 to 95/-
Gives Character
to your
CONWAY STEWART ft 60. I TO. I 0 6 9 0 •
WHEN YOU VALUE
Old Photographs
why trust them to door to door
canvassers? Send them to a firm
of 20 years’ standing. We will
quote size, coloring, framing,
spotting, etc.
SEND YOUR PHOTOS TO US
PROGRESS PHOTOS,
Midway Arcade,
256 Collins St., Melbourne,
Victoria.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
depreciation (up £2155) and
£59,238 (up £11,656) for taxa-
tion, net profit was £16,558
higher:
Consolidated Figubes.
To Re- Re-
Jne., Prft. / serves, serves.*
£ p.c. £ £ £
’56..75,453 10 = 88,377 37,076 274,466
Intangibles w/off, £5441 .. 269,025
*57..92,011 10 = 38,376 53,635 322,600
* Subject to goodwill on consolidation,
£297,598 at 30/6/’57.
The result was equal to a
shade under 24 p.c. on capital,
compared with 19.7 p.c. in the
preceding year. The 10 p.c.
div. left £53,635 for reserves,
which, including £5OOO
labelled “plant-replacement”
and £lO,OOO “contingencies,”
totalled £322,660 at balance-
day. They are subject to
£297,598 of difference between
the cost of shares in subsidiaries
and their par-value.
In the balance-sheet, free-
holds appear at cost, plant at
cost, less depreciation. Depre-
ciation allowances, mentioned
previously, appear to be in the
vicinity of 15 p.c. on written-
down book-values:
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £383,765 £383,765
Reserves .. .. 274,466 322,660
Secured creditors .. 89,750 119,250
Creditors .. .. 61,644 53,669
Tax provision 47,738 62,758
Final div 19,188 19,188
£866,551 £961,290
Freeholds 153,074 195,019
Plant, etc. .. 108.464 122,934
Stocks .. .. 176,678 190,161
Debtors .. .. 57,357 63,474
Prepajments 12,469 13,486
Shares, etc. .. 8,111 8,561
Consols .. .. 15,241 15,241
Cash .. 32,118 54,816
Intangibles .. .. 303,039 297,598
£866,551 £901,290
So far expansion has imposed
no real strain on finances. Last
year’s net addition of £56,415
to fixed assets was largely met
from ploughed-back profits,
and additions to stocks were
only £13,483. Another year as
profitable as last, with an un-
changed dividend, would again
“Tll go crazy if I see any more TV!”
provide over £50,000 of internal
finance for development and
expansion. But, judging by
chairman Lane’s remarks,
ploughed-back profits are not
expected to be enough to meet
the outlay on the sort of
expansion that the co. has in
mind for the near future.
The optical industry is an
essential one, and the co.
appears to have built fairly
solidly. Most people at some
time need glasses, apart from
glare-glasses and the like, and
turnover should be fairly steady
and predictable. Apparently
the establishment of branches in
suburbs and country towns
has proved almost immediately
profitable. Last year’s openings
were at Campsie, Caringbah,
Eastwood, Manly and Gosford
(in N.S.W.), and Camberwell
Junction and Dandenong in
Victoria.
At 16s. 6d. for the 10s.
shares (ex div.), the yield, as
mentioned, is 6 p.c. The net
tangible backing for the shares
is subject to a number of
accounting factors, but it
appears to be considerably in
excess of par-value, and grow-
ing.
Homebuilding
[From Canberra]
HPHE increase in the level of
-*• housebuilding activity is
shown in preliminary figures
covering the rate of commence-
ments of new houses and flats
fin the September quarter.
Commencements in the
quarter totalled 18,981, which
is equivalent to an annual rate
of about 76,000.
This rate represents a 10.4
per cent, increase on the
number of commencements
for 1956 and compares with
earlier years as follows: 1954-
55, 82,110 ; 1955-56, 78,504 and
1956-57, 68,437.


“ Look , dear — We're missing supper !”


LYSAGHT
RURAL PRODUCTS
DISTRIBUTED BY
Mdeglg&iy
AND COMPANY LIMITED
I Incvrpgrafd in frig land ) ■ .
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Pekarek and Larry Adler
Larry Adler struck Brisbane
in a self-made storm. Having
changed his programme at the
last moment, he flew in too
late for a night rehearsal and
generally helped to set up a
fine state of, tension for his
opening concert. As it
turned out, this was no bad
thing, and soloist and orchestra
were on their mettle.
Vaughan Williams’s
“Romance for Harmonica”
showed the Grand Old Man of
music having a high old time in
the quieter parts of the
harmonica’s range. It was
reedy and rather soothing
without being memorably
melodic. Then came a
“Roumanian Fantasy” written
by Francis Chagrin for a
8.8. C. light-music festival. This
fairly rippled with tunes and
virtuoso playing more remi-
niscent of Louis Armstrong
than of anybody else.
Schubert’s mighty Ninth
Symphony followed the fresh,
bright Chagrin music, «and did
not seem inappropriate. Great
length or not, this symphony
has an attractive lightness
in spite of the shadows that
lie across the slow movement.
Rudolf Pekarek’s handling of
the symphony stressed its
lyrical qualities rather than the
strains of heroism that can be
found in some movements.
This approach suited the size
of the orchestra nicely, save in
a few places, like the end of the
first movement, where there
was a lack of power. The
andante, with its sad little oboe
tune and savage alternation of
peace and violent sound, went
well, and the finale’s
throbbing, sawing rhythms
remained lively to the end.
Ibert’s impressionistic “Ports
of Call” was a musical Qook’s-
tour of the Mediterranean, as
imaginative as anything heard
from the orchestra this season.
The concert began with
Smetana’s rich and tuneful
suite “From Bohemia’s
Meadows and Forests,” music
that is in this conductor’s blood
and whose summery loveliness
he so well communicates to his
players.
V D. J. M.
The world’s foremost
exponent of the mouth-organ
—which once-humble instru-
ment now uses, as it were, a
highly respectable harmonicker
—returned to Sydney for his
recital-work and demonstrated
tp anj amazed audience just
how far the m.-o. has come
since the days when it led a
hand-to-mouth existence on
street-corners -and at barn-
dances.
Members of the old Botany
and Sydenham “pushes” would
be knocked flat could any of
them have heard the descendant
of their old instrument being
used to render, not “Redwing”
or “When Father Papered the
Parlor,” but Bach’s lovely
“Jesu, Joy of Man’s Desiring”
played with astonishingly
devised tone-color — and the
same composer’s stately
“Gavotte,” given without bene-
fit of the accompaniment of
Arthur Young, who elsewhere
did yeoman service at the
piano.
There was also, in the line
of pure classicism, the'Lament
from jPurcell’s “Dido and
Atfieas,” a transcription of no
little subtlety played with all
the resource and musicianship
of a true virtuoso. Debussy's
“Afternoon of a Faun” and
Bloch’s “Nigun” were* other
examples of serious music in
which unsuspected resources
of the instrument were tapped
for unusual effeots. The
folk-dances of Bartok’s native
Rumania came up well under
the treatment.
But obviously nothing
warmed Adler’s big audience
so much as such strongly-
rhythmed pieces as Albeniz's
“Sevilliana” and Berger’s
“Fandango Brasileiro,” and the
executant’s own compositions
of lilting liveliness, “Genevieve”
and “St. Jean-de-Luz,” played
with a sort of flippant flourish
which topped them off to
perfection.
❖ ❖ ❖
“King David” and “Saint
Nicolas”
Brisbane has lately had two
local first-performances that
new respect for its
choirs. Sir Bernard Heinze
came from Sydney to lead the
State and Municipal Choir and
the Queensland Orchestra
through Honegger’s - “King
David,” a powerful score that
will, if handled imaginatively,
lift the audience out of their
seats. This performance had
its electric moments, - and
the most casual listener must
have been moved* by the
fabric of sound, at times richly
traditional yet more often
starkly modern in its
harmonies.
- The brass of the orchestra
had a rare opportunity in
weaving together the choral
pieces with the most brilliant
collection" of fanfares since
Handel. They were often
shattering, but always exciting.
The choir sang with the fervor
that comes only from excite-
ment, and there was none of
the comfortable plodding that
makes so many choral per-
formances tame.
Of the soloists, Wendy de
Beyer had a fresh, youthful
soprano that especially suited
the voice of an angel. She had
to cope with the full choir
singing full blast behind her,
and the amplification of her
voice by a loudspeaker did
not adequately unravel the
confused sound.
Narrator Grahame Webster
declaimed the whole of the
spoken part from memory, a
feat that made him the hero
of the soloists. If his im-
passioned oratory seemed
lugubrious at first, he swiftly
turned himself into a prophet
in evening-dress. Betty Ross
joined him as the Witch of
Endor, and was suitably
blood-chilling in her impre-
cations.
Quite different in sound and
effect was Benjamin Britten’s
“Saint Nicolas,” a short
cantata which was presented in
St. John’s Cathedral. Britten
wrote the piece for a school
centenary in England, making
do with the local boys’ choirs
with the addition of a small
adult choir and tenor soloist.
The text is prosy on paper,
yet comes to life with a quality
that can only be described as
sweet. The adventurous
Nicolas (whom we celebrate at
Christmas) goes through a
series of adventures that
include a fearsome storm which
overtakes his ship on a trip to
Palestine. The small . string-
orchestra and percussion plus
the wailing of boys’ voices
made this a storm to
remember alongside the better-
known ones of Beethoven and
Berlioz.
Conductor Louise Grimes
had her musical forces well
drilled, and the sepulchral
effect of the cathedral
acoustics added considerably
to the vividness of the sound.
When at a climax the choir
led into “All People That on
Earth Do Dwell” the per-
formance touched a note of
grandeur that ought to
encourage the use of the
cathedral for more music of
this kind.
D. J. M.
*> ❖ *
“Salad Days”
“Salad Days,” Melbourne
Princess’s latest gift to the
nation, belongs to that class
of English come.dy which
descends in a more-or-less
direct line from Shakspeare.
On its way upwards or down-
wards it has acquired a tinge
of 19th-century sentimentality
as soft as a feather-bed and


Now even faster handling of bulk grain!
y*
Si 10
SS! :*:*
PUT
LIT
CLE
NG
(?)
HC
NO
COVER
DRIVINC
PULLEY
PUT
■
M- ** tj *i
4 m
LYSAGHT
Grain Augers
A completely new type now Available to
fill and empty Lysaght Silos. Features
include:
• Unique centre drive unit (Patent pend-
ing No. 22636/56) as shown in Insert
below.
• Improved capacity.
• All working parts completely encased .
• Adjustable chute tube.
HOW TO SELECT A VERTICAL AUGER TO FIT
A LYSAGHT SILO —CENTRE FILLING ONLY
S|LQ SILO CAPACITY IN BUSHELS
ERECTED 1,000 2,000 2.000 3.000 3,500 4,500 8,500
(squat)
Without Earth Ring VUIQ V 2012 V 2412 V 2412 V 2814
With Earth Ring ¥2012 V 2012 V 2814 V 2814 V 2814
V 3214 Y 3414
¥3214 V4OlB
Write for further information to:
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. in all Capital Cities er
LYSAGHT'S WORKS PTY. LIMITED, NEWCASTLE WORKS
A39C
the wind of its satire wouldn’t
raise a ripple on a fishpond.
Nevertheless it is extremely
funny in places. It is placed in
an English university and is
supplied with a chorus of
undergraduates and Dons, also
policemen, beauticians and
models, and there is a bit of
mild business about a magic
piano which,compels everybody
who hears it to start dancing.
It is all as pure and innocent
as a glass of water and its
simplicity is matched by the
music of Julian Slade, whose
unpretentious lyrics catch its
mood to perfection.
In fact, it is rather a
refreshing change from the
blatancy of its more up-to-
date contemporaries of the
screen, and can be further
enjoyed for the spontaneous
vivacity of Judy Banks, who
from all points of view is a
distinct find amongst rnusi-
comedy girls, and for thtf
comedy of Harry Starling, as
P C. Boot.
■fj*- -ijt-
Elizabethan Players
In their recital at Sydney’s
Assembly Hall, the Eliza-
bethan Players (Eva Kelly and
Donald Hazlewood, violins;
John Painter, ’cello; Dene
Barnett, harpsichord) went
within a hairsbreadth of the un-
attainable: a perfect selection
of items. The magic thread of
fugue ran through all the music,
and what better way, after all,
to give each instrument its
say and still retain overall
unity?
They made a good start
with Frescobaldi’s closely knit
Canzona, with its quick-slow
tempo-changes; and went on
to Purcell’s Golden Sonata, an
excellent example of economic
writing, the third-movement,
a fugal canzona, giving way,
via a brief bridge-passage, to
the final (and again fugal)
allegro.
A Fancy for Two Violins
and Bass, by John Jenkins,
kicked-off with a dancing
fugue, but the mood and
tempo soon slowed-up and
almost before one realised it
the thing was drawing to a
close, with nary a return to its
former liveliness.
Bach’s Sonata for Violin
and Continuo was very nicely
done by Miss Kelly; in the
two slow movements there was
grace and warmth, and the
vivace and presto parts
sparkled with a quartzy bril-
liance. Next, as if inviting com-
parison, was Handel’s Trio
Sonata, Op. 5, No. 6, with five
movements, the second fugal,
the fourth, an allegro, more of
a canon than a strict fugue.
In the adagio the crescendo
entry of Miss Kelly’s violin
poured out sound like smooth
golden wine.
After interval came Alan
Rawsthorne s Theme and
Variations for Two Violins—
far too few mellow spots in a
desert of dissonance.
Admitted, the last two of the
eight variation-movements had
a certain technical adroitness,
{Continued on page 49)


Automatic factory built by C.S.R.
The C.S.R. factory illustrated is
controlled by instruments. The
factory makes carbon • dioxide from
fuel oil. Carbon dioxide is used for
carbonating beverages, refrigerating
ice cream, fire fighting and for indus-
trial purposes such as making foundry
cores. C.S.R. also obtains Co 2 from
molasses when it is fermented to make
alcohol. The instruments shown
control the factory.
'mm 1 M v
m
mmm
I: »
mmMMm
C.S.R. Co.’s half-yearly report
Points from General Manager's report to Shareholders
# Record raw sugar output expected from C.S.R.’s raw
sugar mills in Australia and Fiji.
• Increased sales of C.S.R. building materials and
chemicals.
Total Australian production of raw sugar for the 1957
season is expected to be about 1,250,000 tons. Out of this
total the C.S.R. Company’s 7 Australian raw sugar mills
are expected to produce 273.000 tons, 18,000 tons more thafi
the previous highest production reached in 1954.
A record production of about 197.000 tons of raw sugar
is also expected from the Company’s five mills in Fiji. The
previous highest production was 191,000 tons in 1953.
Dr. R. W. Harman, General
Manager of the Colonial Sugar
Refining Company Limited, also
made the following points in his
recent half-yearly report to the
Company’s 14,000 shareholders.
Refined sugar sales in
Australia
For the year ended 30th Sep-
tember, 1957, sales of sugar and
sugar products from our five Aus-
tralian refineries amounted to
495,000 tons.
C.S.R.’s business in
New Zealand
The quantity of refined products
sold from our Auckland refinery for
the year ended 30th September,
1957, was 102,500 tons, an increase
of about 5,000 tons over the pre-
vious year.
The installation of the bulk raw
sugar receiving plant at Chelsea
Refinery, Auckland, which is esti-
mated to cost £400,000, is proceed-
ing satisfactorily ; the first bulk
sugar shipment is expected to be
received at the refinery by March,
1958.
Sales of building
materials increase
Sales of C.S.R. building materials
this year are at a level 10 per cent,
higher than last year.
Timbrock hardboard is being
made in a wider range of sizes and
thicknesses as new plant capacity has
become available.
Blue asbestos output has con-
tinued to increase and sales for the
first nine months of 1957 were at
the annual rate of 12,000 tons,
valued at £1.200,000. Additional
plant is being installed and the
first section should be in operation
about mid-1958. This will enable
output to be increased at that time
to a rate of about 18,000 tons per
annum.
C.S.R. Chemicals
Pty. Ltd. (60% C.S.R.)
The demand for all chemicals
produced at the Rhodes and Lane
Cove factories of this subsidiary
continued to Increase over the past
six months, sales being appreciably
above those for the corresponding
period last year. The improvement
in sales of cellulose acetate flake for
the production of acetate rayon i*
especially welcome.
A plant is being built at Rhodes
to make vinyl acetate, an important
constituent of emulsion paints and
newer type adhesives. Production
should commence about the middle
of 1958.
Progress on the new plant for the
manufacture of a special toughened
type of polystyrene.is proceeding to
schedule and it is expected that
production will commence early next
year.
Distilleries
In June this year, an extension to
our Pyrmont CO2 gas production
capacity was completed and success-
fully put into commission. (See
photographs below.)
Ocean Vessels
The Company’s new “Rona,” a
motor ship of 6,600 tons deadweight,
was the subject of a black ban on
her arrival in Sydney in August.
The ban was imposed by the Mari-
time Unions because the ship was
delivered by a British crew engaged
in the United Kingdom, but she has
now sailed for Fiji after a hold-up
of ten weeks.
Bulk handling of raw sugar
Good progress continues on the
construction of bulk raw sugar load-
ing terminals at Queensland portSi
The Company was appointed by the
Queensland Sugar Board to co-
ordinate arrangements for the con-
struction of these terminals, and to
act as associate engineering consul-
tants for the design and installation
of the mechanical and electrical
equipment involved.
At Mackay vessels of 10,000 tons
capacity are being loaded mechani-
cally within two days at a rate of
about 600 tons per hour of actual
loading time. This compares with
hand loading of bagged sugar at a
lafe of about 65 tons per hour and a
total time to load a 10,000 ton
cargo of some three weeks.
British Commonwealth
Sugar Agreement *
Discussions are now taking place
in London between Commonwealth
producers and the British Ministry
of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food
to be paid by the United Kingdom
during 1958. The “negotiated price’’
lor 1957 is £42.3.4 sterling per ton.
Exports of raw sugar
Exports from Australia during the
calendar year 1957 are expected to
to determine the “negotiated price’’
exceed 735,000 tons.


if.VhT
&
B
rERPETIIAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
DIRECTORS:
TH» HON.
T. A. J. PLAYFAIR.
M.L.C., chairman:
SIR EDWARD R. KNOX
»ICB-OHAIRMAN ;
ALLEN C. LEWIS:
D. ft. LYSAGHT;
JOHN W. DUNLOP:
JOHN DARLING:
A. G. ABMYTAGE.
MANAGING DIBBCTOB.
\V. S. MATTHEWS.
MANAGCB.
Efficient and Helpful Service
for your dependents . . .
OISE of the most thoughtful and considerate things a
man can do for bis family is to ensure freedom from
all the cares and worries that so frequently go hand in
hand with Estate administration.
By appointing Perpetual Trustee Company (Ltd.) as
your Executor and Trustee —alone, or jointly with a
relative or friend, you will ensure that, when the time
comes, your Estate will be in the safe, experienced hands
of a Company with a proud record of more than 70 years’
faithful service to the Community; you will ensure, for
your dependents, a service that is personal, friendly and
understanding.
If you would know more of'the Company’s service,
and what it costs, ring BO 377 or write, and make an
appointment. If you prefer,
ask that a copy of the
Company's helpful and in-
formative booklet be sent to
you. It is free and post free.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
ExWutor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others, Administrator, etc.
S 3 39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY OFFICES AT ORANGE & TAMWORTH
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY
(CANBERRA) LTD.
INDUSTRY HODSB
NATIONAL OIRCUIT
CANBERRA
LOCAL DIRECTORS IN ADDI-
TION TO THOSE DIRECTORS
MENTIONED AT THE LEFT:
WARREN D. MeDONALD.
C.8.K., TICE-CHAIRMAN
S. G. MoFARLANE. c.M.a.
NEVILLE C. MILSON
The WILDCAL
COLUMN
The Myer Emporium, Ltd.
T ATEST accounts from Australia’s two
-*- v biggest inner-city retailers —Myer
Emporium, Ltd. (Melb.), and David Jones,
Ltd. (Sydney)—further support the con-
tention that, when operated on a high-
turnover, low-pro fit-margin basis, the
well-positioned and efficiently conducted
city department-store with its compre-
hensive range of merchandise is well able
to cope with the competition provided
(so far) by suburban shopping-centres.
Many of the advantages of bulk-
purchasing are available to smaller
organisations today, but the volume of
trade necessary for the fast turnover of
a wide range of stock items is still to be
found mainly in the capital cities, where
the more conveniently located stores
appear to be obtaining a goodly share of
the available business.
In terms of turnover the Myer organi-
sation is the largest of its kind in the
country, total income last term rolling
in at an average rate of almost £1,000,000
a week. Principal members of the group
are the parent, with a massive head-office
and store in Melbourne’s Bourke Street,
Myer (S.A.), Ltd. (Adelaide), and
McWhirters, Ltd. (Brisbane), the paid
capital of the latter co. being bought
late in 1955 at a cost of £937,500 (par-
value) in scrip and £562,500 in cash.
Other subsidiaries trade in Victoria’s
second- and third-largest cities, Geelong
and Ballarat.
A manufacturing offshoot, Wendouree
Woollen Mills Pty. (Ballarat) produces
blankets, tweeds, dress-materials, under-
wear and outerwear, the parent itself
operating a number of production-units
of which a furniture- and bedding-factory
near Melbourne is the largest. Parking-
problems remain one of the chief bug-
bears of city-shoppers and -traders and
a parking-station was recently erected
close to the Melbourne store, while a
“substantial number” of shares have been
taken-up in a Victorian co. interested in
tendering for the car-park proposed for
Bourke Street West. The partly owned
Economic Holdings, Ltd., handles the
group’s hire-purchase business.
The parent co. (by far the biggest profit-
winner in the group) undertook the allot-
ment and sale of tickets for last year’s
Olympic Games, recovering only the
actual cost of the work performed.
The group as a whole established new
records for both turnover and earnings
during the-year to July 31 last, net sales
rising by £3,338,114 (7.1 p.c.) to
£50,324,267. Interest received, dividends,
discounts, etc., added up to £1,378,216
(up £138,477), taking total income to
£51,702,483. The average mark-up was
lower, according to the board, but
expenses climbed more slowly than turn-
over, and, with the reduction in rates
of co.-tax worth something like £75,000
to the group, net profit advanced by
£440,997 to £1,558,946:
Parent Only.
, Dividends To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Old. Total.f serves,serves.*
£ £*£,£,
’62.. 351,590 9 p.c. 71p.C. 331,524 20,066 3,763.394
Added stock reserve, £35,000 .. 3,798,394
Tax underprovided, £10,875 ..' .. 3.787,519
’53.. 612,951 9 p.c. lOp.c. 419,961 192,990 3,980,509
Stock-fluctuation reserve, £lOO,OOO ..4,080,509
Tax overprovided, £23,436 .. ... 4,103,945
’54.. 737,068 9 p.c. 12|p.c. 508,398 228,670 4,332,615
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Added on consolidation, £1,575,857.. 5,908,472
Less adjustment outside interest, £9666 5,898,806
Tax underprovided, £4326 .. .. 5,894,480
Reduction intangibles, £15,493 .. 5,909,973
From marine-insurance fund, 6,159,973
Unexplained addition, £18,826 .. 6,178,799
’65..1,013,100 9 p.c. 15p.c. 596,835 416,265 6,595,064
Tax overprovided, £17,769 .. ..6,612,833
Profit on sale and revaluation assets
(£1,822,793), less unexplained ad-
justments to inter-co. holdings,
minority interest, etc., £689,232.. 7,302,065
Less increase in intangibles, £618,224 6,683,841
’56..1,117,949 9 p.c. 15p.c. 742,412 375,537 7,059,378
Profit sale assets, £19,763 .. .. 7,079,141
Tax overprovided, £18,921 .. ..7,098,062
Reduction intangibles, £27,943 .. 7,126,005
Unexplained addition, £15,354 .. 7,141,359
’57..1,558,946 9 p.c. 15p.c. 742,462 816,484 7,957,843
* After deducting intangibles, £651,239 at 31/7/’57.
f Including staff partner and employee shares.
Calculated after providing £1,512,662
(down £6813) for taxation and £455,133
(up £6809) for depreciation, the profit
covered divs. on pref. and employee scrip
and 33 p.c. on ord. capital, compared
with 23.3, 26.8 and 25.7 p.c. back to
1954. As a result, over 52 p.c. of the
earnings was available for reinvestment
in the business.
- A one-for-one bonus-issue in 1951,
following revaluation of fixed assets,
added £1,750,000 to paid capital,
the issue of scrip in connection with the
McWhirters deal lifting the total on the
register to £5,271,619, of which £655,450
carries a fixed 9 p.c. and £99,500 is in
staff-partnership shares. The ord. div.-
rate was cut from Ilf p.c. to 7| p.c. after
the bonus-issue, but was increased to
10 p.c. in 1953 and 12y p.c. in the follow-
ing year, reaching the current 15 p.c.
level in 1955.
At July 31 last reserves, including
£250,000 set aside last term for building-
replacement, exceeded paid capital by
£3,337,463, the balance-sheet disclosing
a sound financial structure and a particu-
larly high degree of liquidity:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Capital— 1956. 1956. 1957.
Pref. .. £655,450 £655,450 £655,450
Ord. .. 3,687,000 4,616,169 4,616,1G9
Reserves .. 6,656,022 7,738,560 8,609,082
Minority interest 1,486,911 1,968,882 2,091,158
Mortgages .. 2,065,000 2,041,700 1,997,450
Notes .. .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Overdraft ... 90.257 821,721
Deposits .; 886,498 1,621,818 1,578,964
Creditors .. 2,434,425 3,085,805 3,707,995
Tax provision _1,288,408 1,536,666 1,525,016
Final div. .. 383,854 489,306 489,306
£20,543,568 £24,844,613 £27,092,311
Freeholds, etc. 5,476,737 6,517,739 6,901,956
Plant, fittings. . 1,678,443 1,984,567 • 2,275,989
Investments .. 208,878 560,331 370,888
Stock .. .. 6,644,653 7,687,892 7,914,071
Debtors .. 4,393,140 5,077,752 5,587,576
Suspense .. 255,348 294,763 236,287
Cash, deposits 1,825,411 2,042,387 3,154,305
Intangibles .. 60,958 679,182 651,239
£20,543,568 £24,844,613 £27,092,311
Completion of a new bulk-store in the
Melbourne suhurb of Footscray, recon-
struction of the Adelaide store (still in
progress), and alterations to premises at
Geelong, Ballarat and Brisbane in-
volved a capital-outlay of more
than £1 million, depreciation keep-
ing the ' increase in book-value
of fixed assets (partly valuation) down to
£675,639. A fast rate of stock-turn,
reflected by the relatively small increase


in stocks (up £226,179), contributed to
last term’s success, book-debts (up
£509,824) growing at much the
same rate as turnover. The
amount owing to creditors increased
by £622,190, and there was a big jump
in the overdraft (up £731,464 to £821,721),
but the year ended with the group hold-
ing an extra £1,111,918 in cash and short-
term deposits.
Trading and profit figures for the first
quarter of the current term are reported
to be “well ahead” of those in the corres-
ponding period of last term, the share-
market expressing its confidence in the
organisation by valuing the ord.-share-
holders’ equity in the business at mb re
than £lB million. At balance-date there
was 13s. 6d. in net tangible assets sup-
porting each f.-p. ss. share, the scrip at
19s. lid. returning £3 15s. 4d. p.c. from
a 15 p.c. div. The well-backed prefs. yield
£6 p.c. at 30s.
Bradford Cotton Mills, Ltd.
is the staple of a young but
virile Australian textile industry. Real
development did not begin until after
the First World War, since when progress
under Government tutelage has been
fairly rapid, more especially since the
depression, aid in the form of a protec-
tive tariff replacing the bounty on yarn-
production in force between 1926 and
1932. At present 97 mills, mostly in
N.S.W. and Victoria, employ a work-
force of about 10,000, nearly treble the
1939 total.
The bulk of Australia’s quarter-million
spindlage consists of ring-frame spindles,
suitable for producing the coarser counts
of yarn ; the chief woven products are
industrial qualities—canvas and duck,
drills, jeans, dungarees, denims, etc.,
local production supplying about two-
thirds of the market for these cloths. Tyre-
cord is also an important line.
As with other basic industries, war-time
exigencies promoted a sudden upsurge,
and at present B.C.M. is the largest
cotton-processor in the Commonwealth,
Davies Coop, Ltd., alone being com-
parable in size. Bradford’s stake in the
industry can be gauged from the book-
value of its fixed assets, £4,887,494 (June
30, 1956), compared with the industry as
a whole, £10,356,632.
Besides eight wholly-owned sub-
sidiaries, five in N.S.W. and three in
Victoria, the co. has substantial interests
in Burlington Mills (Australia), Ltd.,
which processes artificial fibres, particu-
larly rayon, and in Chattanooga Tufted
Carpets (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., opened
officially during the term, and reported
to be “now operating on a profit-making
basis,” despite the current flatness of the
floor-covering market. Chattanooga is
operated in association with Felt and
Textiles of Australia, Ltd., each co.
holding a 50 p.c. interest, and provides
an important additional outlet for
Bradford’s yarn.
Primarily a spinner and weaver,
B.C.M. also processes yarns and cloths
for the trade, specialising in doubling,
Eyeing, weather- and rot-proofing, flame-
proofing and compressive shrinking
(Sanforizing). Cotton-waste, a by-product
of spinning, brings in some additional
revenue, Felt and Textiles, with its host of
subsidiaries, being a major customer.
Since 1950 methods-research and
resolute modernisation and replacement
of obsolescent plant have boosted opera-
ting efficiency, helping to stabilise the co.’s
cost-structure in the face of the ever-
upward pressure of wages. Over the
past six years £2,376,110 has been outlaid
on plant, etc., including £266,000 in the
term under review, when the 17-year-old
looms at Australian Silk and Cotton
Mills were renewed, as were the canvas-
and-duck weaving-looms at the Footscray
mills. Obsolete plant to the value of
£104,000 was scrapped or sold, and the
uet addition brought the book-value (at
cost) of plant to £5,356,903, against which
a depreciation reserve totalling £2,532,527
has been provided:
Parent and Wholly-owned Subsidiaries.
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital.. £3,020,821 £3,045,431 £3,061,981
Reserves .. 2,060,144 -2,154,181 2,182,131
Depreciation re-
serve ... 2,033,788 2,281,178 2,532,527
Mortgage loan 1,075,000 , 1,050,000 1,025,000
Overdraft- .. ' 789,644 - 1,157,814 1,176,697
Creditors .. 1,414,721 1,079,966 1,478.318
Staff fund . . 33,471 35,127 90,670^
Tax reserve .. 299,150 381,072 384,785 t
Final div. .. 184,690 185,830 , 187,399
£10,911,229 £11.370,599 £12,119,488
Freeholds .. . 1,793,108 1,837,971 1,846,686
Leaseholds . . 132,914 135,793 141,561
Investments . 383,755 490,758 453-, 258
Plant ... 4,683,059 5,194,908 5,356,903
Stock- - .;. 2,577,772 2,361,677 2,816,185
Debtors .. ' 1,329,075 1,346,629 1,502,032
Cash . . .. 8,683 *
Intangibles .. 2,863 2.563 2,863
£10,911,229 £11.370,599 £ 11,U9,488
* Long-service provision (£44.000) included 1957.
t Includes unspecified contingencies.
Investments were written - down by
£37,500, representing the balance out-
standing on the now-defunct subsidiary,
Australian Plexon Pty., Ltd.
Provision for taxation and other
unspecified contingencies is shown as
£384,785. Depreciation allowed was
£323,099, against which can be offset
the book-value of plant scrapped, leaving
a net £251,349 addition to the reserve.
After adjusting for payments to staff-
fund (£5000), the lump-sum provision for
long-service (£44,000) and the written-off
investment (£37,500), and .deducting tax
and depreciation provisions, the accounts
show a net trading profit of £488,245,
which, although lower than the 1954
record of £497,734, is up .£18,015 on the
previous term:
Bradford Cotton and Subsidiaries.*
, /■— —Dividends—— N To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves, serves.f
£ £ £ £
Share premiums, £300,631 .. ..1,^41.837
Removal exes., etc., £38,268 . . 1i603,569
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. . . 1,598,569
1952.. 6 p.c. 10 p.c.-248,144 127,782 1,726,351
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 1,721,351
1953.. 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 296,535 98,829 1,820,180
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. ...1,810,180
Add reserves adjustment, £Bll6 ..1,818,290
1954.. 734 6 p.c. 12}p.c. 354,818 142,916 1,901,212
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 1,956,2.12
1955.. 572 6 p.c. 12*p.c. 368,503 101,069 2.057,281
To staff fund, £‘sooo .. . . . . 2,052,281
1956.. 6 p.c. 12 jp.c. 371,193 99,037 2,151,318
To staff fund, £5OOO . . . . . . 2,146,318
To long-service provision, £44,000. . 2,102,318
Investments written-off, £37,500 ..2,064,818
1957.. 6 p.c. 124p.c. 373,795 114,450 2,179,208
* Excluding, outside interests. f After deducting
intangibles ( £2863) and excluding depreciation and
amortisation reserve ( £2,532,527).
The div.-rate on ord. capital was
p.c. for the fourth year in succession, and
£114,450 was added to the strong reserve-
balance. Earning-rates of mean share-
holders’ funds for the past five years
were 8.1 p.c. (1953), 10.4 p.c., 9.4 p.c.,
9.1 p.c. and 9.4 p.c. (1957).
With the exception of employees’
shares, which now stand at 119,765 £1
ords., no new capital-issues have been
made since March, 1953, when 116,500
£1 ords. were issued in exchange for
233,000 £1 Burlington ords. Subsequently
Burlington allotted B.C.M. 300,000 ords.
at April, 1954. Bradford’s holding at
June 30 was 578,350 shares, and in current
negotiations to acquire the remaining
421,450 on the basis of one B.C.M. ord.
for two Burlington ords., another 361,000
had been acquired up to Nov. 20.
The admission of Japan, fast regain-
ing its pre-war capacity of 13,000,000
spindles, to most-favored-nation status
% and equality as regards import-licensing
recently depressed ’Change quotes
for Bradford scrip to 325. 9d., compared
with 395. 3d. offered a year ago.
In view of assurances on the part of both
Governments and the reservations
embodied in the treaty itself, well-
established local firms should be in a
position to meet any competition,
although some reduction in margins must
be expected. The real long-term competi-
tor is synthetic fibre, and Bradford’s
take-over of Burlington can be regarded
in the light of an insurance-policy against
future developments.
At 365. 9d. now, B.C.M. ords. yield 6?
p.c. and have a net tangible assets backing
of 355. Bd. The n.t.a. backing of Burling-
ton’s ords., currently on offer for 18s.,
is 21s. Bd.
R. B. Davies Industries, Ltd.
r T'HE Yorkshire-pudding (or Yorkshire
Fittings) section of the organisation
is developing into the most tasty part of
the R. B. Davies dish.
Demand for many of the other lines
produced by the R. B. Davies organisation
—which claims to be the largest manu-
facturer of builders’ hardware this side of
the Equator—was weakened last term by
a further decline in the rate of home-
building.
Originally an importer, R. B. Davies
commenced the manufacture of builders’
hardware in 1929, a share-interest in the
business being offered to the public in
1950 on the formation of the Sydney-
based holding co., R. B. Davies Industries,
Ltd.
In addition to an extensive range of
builders’ and general hardware, the group
also manufactures electric hoists, winches,
overhead cranes, etc., machine-tools and
kitchenware, while one subsidiary deals
in industrial scrap and salvage materials.
Export markets have been established in
South and East Africa, N.Z., the West
Indies, South-east Asia and the Pacific
Islands.
The parent controls 11 subsidiary cos.
(eight in N.S.W., three in Vic.) and holds
49 p.c. of the share-capital of Yorkshire
Fittings (Australia) Pty., manufacturer of
patented copper-pipe fittings, which
eliminate the need for threaded joints and
are used by the plumbing- and building-
trades. This concern has made rapid


THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest feature*
of high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
''National'' Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans,
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND. BRISBANE
DittrUutint. Agents—
SVDNEY W. C. Penfold St Co. Tty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE . Norman Bros. Ptjr. Ltd.
ADELAIDE . . Vardon Price Ltd.
PERTH . Docket Book Co. (An»t.)
Faith In the
Future
So much has been said about Australia’s need
for training scientists and technicians that to return
to the subject, however briefly, may appear to be
unnecessary at this stage.
But I do come back to it now, to make a
definite point: We should be not only training more
young brains in science and technology, but also
trying to encourage them out of patriotism to select
wisely the courses within that definition, which they
will follow.
In a world dazzled by the achievements in
nuclear physics and in the projection of rockets',
for instance, Australia has to keep sight of the fact
that so much of its prosperity comes from the land.
And because our population is small—and the
number available for all forms of higher training
is thus limited—it is important that a due. proportion
of our student brains should be trained in sciences
of the land.
At present only one in every five students
entering Australian universities enrols in the
faculties grouped under science, engineering,
agriculture and veterinary science.
In any enlightened country this would be
considered disproportionately low. In Australia,
underdeveloped and faced with problems of
production and market costs, it borders on a national
extravagance with good intellects.
To say that is not to talk-down the importance
of the other professions to which students turn
their talents; nor does it seek to minimise the
fine contribution Australians are making in
nuclear research.
But the truth of it is that Man, inquiring and
inventive as he may be. first must eat; and where
he inhabits a country dependent for its standards
on primary exports, he should be aiming to give
his best —mentally as well as manually—to
rural industries.
In the selection of a career, of course, much is
decided by a student’s own sense of vocation. But
I believe that with the right incentives —with
rewards that will measure up with those offered in
other graduate callings—Australia should be able
to attract more of its student force to the sciences
related to agriculture.
We will be needing all of their trained guidance
in the expansive years ahead.
progress, as has its English
parent.
The last issue to R. B.
Davies’ shareholders (one-for-
four) was at par in 1953, paid
capital reaching its present
total, £701,682, in 1955, when
50,000 £1 ords. were exchanged
for the share-capital of M.
Persin, Ltd., kitchenware-manu-
facturer of Melbourne. Later
in the same year £200,000 was
borrowed on 7 p.c. notes,
repayable in 1962 with pro-
vision for earlier redemption
at the option of the co.
Following a slip in earnings
last term the div. -rate, steady
at 8 p.c. since 1951, was reduced
to 7 p.c.
The volume of the group’s
hardware trade depends largely
on the level of homebuilding-
activity, and, with only 65,540
houses completed in Australia
during the year to June 30 last,
compared with 75,536 in the
preceding year, trading condi-
tions were less favorable and
competition keen. Yorkshire
Fittings made its first contribu-
tion to group-earnings with
a maiden 5 p.c. div. (worth
£6725), but, after setting aside
£35,139 (down £11,513) for
taxation and £11,999 for depre-
ciation, the consolidated net
profit was £3325 lower at
£68,889:
Consolidated Figures.
Nominal
Pe-
June, Profit. , Dividends—,, serves.*
£ £ £
1952..49,129 8 p.e. = 41,709 66,505
Added reserves, £ 13,590 .. 80,095
VV/oft' intangibles, £3500 .. 76,595
1953. .59,768 8 p.c. = 45,185 91,178
W/off intangibles, £5000... 86,178
1954. .78,109 8 p.c. = 52,135 112,152
M. Persin reserve-adjust-
ments, £49,578 .. .. 161,730
W/off intangibles, £5OOO .. 156,730
1955. .84,590 8 p,c.= 53,135 188,185
W/off intangibles, £5091 . . 183,094
Adjustment, goodwill on con-
solidation, £5OOO .. 188,094
1956. .72,214 8 p.c. = 56,135 204,173
To prov. long-service leave,
£20,000 184,173
W/off' intangibles, £3657 . . 180,516
1957. .68,889 7 p.c. = 49,118 200,287
* Subject to "goodwill, etc. (£43,727 at
30/6/’57).
Shown after deducting the pro-
portion due to minority share-
holders, the earnings equalled
9.8 p.c. of paid capital, as
against 10.3, 12.1, 12 and 10.5
p.c. back to 1953, but a
£20,000 provision for long-
service leave reduced the
surplus of reserves over
intangibles by £229.
With exception of an £ll,BBO
increase in book-debts, balance-
sheet movements were in keep-
ing with the less - buoyant
trading conditions, there being
some improvement in the
group’s liquid position but little
change in working-capital:
Consolidated Figures.
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £701,682 £701,682
?Tr,.CO,,„t} *•*•>» m 287
Outside interests 75,500 75,500
Notes .. .. 201,167 201,167
Overdraft, etc... 224,673 151,597
Creditors . . 121,125 105,084
Prov. long-service
leave . . ~ 20,000
Taxation provn. 46,652 35,154
Final dividends 56,135 49,118
£1,631,107 £1,539,589
Freeholds, plant
and machinery 564,010 562,476
Yorkshire shares 147,000 147,000
Yorkshire loan ~ 11,940
Stocks .. .. 680,137 593,854
Debtors .. . . 179,796 191,676
Cash .. .. 840 856
Intangibles .. 47,384 43,727
£1,631,107 £1,539,589
Funds released by an £86,283
cut in stocks (in at co. valu-
ation) went towards reducing
the liability to the bank (down
£73,076) and creditors (down
£16,041).
An improvement in the rate
of home-building in recent
months may help to strengthen
turnover in the current term,
18,120 homes being commenced
in the three months to Septem-
ber 30 last, compared with
17,435 in the preceding quarter
and 16,589 in the correspond-
ing period of 1956. A higher
return from the Yorkshire
Fittings investment (£147,000)
is also expected, an 8 p.c. div.
(on a slightly higher capital)
paid from earnings to July 31
last lifting income from this
source by £5035.
Consolidated accounts show
a net tangible asset backing of
245. 6d. for each f.-p. £1 ord.,
the scrip at 18s. yielding
£7 355. 6d. p.c. from a 7 p.c.
div.
S.A. Portland Cement
TN common with most cement-
A manufacturers, South Aus-
tralian Portland Cement Co.,
Ltd., has invested heavily in
new plant over the last decade
in order to take advantage of
the strong and steadily-increas-
ing demand for cement and
cement products. Last term
saw the completion of the first
stage in a major expansion
programme which began more
than 10 years ago with the
purchase of a limestone deposit
at Angaston (near Adelaide)
and has lifted production by
more than 200 p.c. and earnings


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO HUBERT HENRY LOFTUS SMITH.
—TAKE NOTICE that MATTIE ELIZA-
BETH MARY SMITH has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2402 of 1957 on
the ground of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 29th day of January
1958 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
by 300 p.c. over the last six
years.
Australia’s cement require-
ments greatly exceeded the
plant-capacity of local suppliers
in the years immediately follow-
ing the 1939-45 war, and large
quantities were imported. A
high level of public-works and
building activity generally
strengthened demand in sub-
sequent years, but, by prac-
tically doubling their com-
bined output since 1950, local
manufacturers now have the
market more-or-less to them-
selves. Total production rose
by 11 p.c. during the last
financial year:
Portland Cement Production in
Australia.
June, Tons. June, / Tons.
1952 .. 1,237,000 1955 .. 1,920,000
1953 .. 1,439,000 1956 .. 2,014,000
1954 .. 1,700,000 1957 .. 2,236,000
* Source: Commonwealth Bureau of
Census and Statistics, Canberra.
Further increases in output are
planned by a number of manu-
facturers, including S.A.
Portland Cement, and could
foreshadow a return to more
competitive trading conditions.
The South Australian co. had
spent well over £l| million at
Angaston by the end of last
term, and has now closed the
old Brighton works, after
completing the transfer of
equipment to Angaston and
the Rosewater (Adelaide) dis-
tribution-centre. Next step is
the installation of an addi-
tional kiln which will increase
plant-capacity by 75,000 tons
to 225,000 tons p.a. and cost
over £500,000.
To help finance this project
the co., earlier this month,
offered shareholders 273,473 £1
7 p.c. notes (one for every two
shares held) convertible into
ords. at par in 1962. In 1955
£300,000 was borrowed on 6
p.c. debentures, redeemable in
1963, while last term second
and 'final calls totalling 10s.
per £1 share were made on
scrip issued (one-for-two) in
1952, bringing paid capital, all
in ords., to £545,073. The div.-
rate, steady at 7} p.c. for the
nine years to 1954, was
increased to 8 p.c. in 1955 and
10 p.c. in the following year.
The plant operated at full
capacity (150,000 tons p.a.) last
term, output exceeding that of
the previous year, 90 p.c. of the
cement produced being sold in
S.A. and the balance in other
States.
Costs were higher, however,
mainly as a result of wage-
increases, and pre-tax earnings
slipped by £4686 to £169,140,
but a smaller tax-provision
(down £ll,OOO at £75,000) left
net profit £6314 stronger at
£94,140.
An amount of £125,000 (un-
changed) was set aside to cover
depreciation, and, as in earlier
years, the rates adopted were
greater than those recognised
by the taxation authorities:
Re-
June, Profit. f ‘Dividends serves.
y £ £, £
To staff fund, £1590 .. 178,231
Tax overprovided, £2206 .... 180,437
Capital profit, £5OOO .. 185,437
To depreciation provision,
£25,1)00 160,437
Unexpl’ed reduction, £4558 155,879
’53.. 35,346 7i p.c. = 32,475 158,750
Net capital profit, £12,905.. 171,655
’54.. 67,122 7ip.c.= 34,184 204,593
Capital profit, £5412 .. 210,005
’55.. 75,062 8 p.c. = 36,463 248,604
Tax overprovided, £-583 .. 249,187
Capital profit, £485 .. 249,672
’66.. 87,826 10 -p.c. = 45,578 291,920
Revaluation fixed assets,
£297,500 .. . t .. 589,420
Capital profit, £1166 .. 590,586
Tax overprovided, £1264 .. 591,850
'57.. 94,140 10 p.c. 46,718 639,272
Profits shown .above include minor
unexplained additions to reserves.
Earnings have responded well
to the introduction* of new
share- and loan-capital, net
profit representing a return of
20.1 p.c. on average paid
capital, as against 19.3, 16.4,
14.7 and 8.1 p.c. in the four
preceding terms. A 10 p.c. div.
on paid capital as it stood at
June 30 last (plus £1872 of calls
in arrear) would require
£54,694 or £39,446 less than last
term’s showing.
An independent revaluation
of fixed assets brought about a
big jump in reserves last term,
£297,500 being added to the
book-value of plant and free-
holds. At the same time
expenditure on capital-works
(approximately £273,300) was
almost equal to the surplus on
revaluation, the book-value
of total assets, after depreci-
ation, increasing by over 45
p.c.:
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £455,788 £545,073
Reserves .. 291,920 639,272
Mortgage .. , 6,012 5,767
Debentures .. 300,000 300,000
Overdraft .. 21,130 154,546
Creditors ' .. 84,678 121,832
Due to subsids. 23,000 23,000
Tax provision .. 86,000 75,000
Final divs. ~ 27,347 23,929
£1,295,875 £1,888,419
Land, buildings,
plant .. 882,929 1,338,755
Shares .. . . 25,756 25,756
Stock .. .. 202,238 254,944
Debtors .. 124,887 148,842
Cash, bonds .. 60,065 120,122
£1,295,875 £1,888,419
Half the share-capital raised
during the year came in last
March and the balance in June,
but although the co. ended the
term with an extra £60,057 in
cash, etc., the overdraft was
£133,416 higher at £154,546.
Stores appear to account for
quite a large proportion of
the £254,944 (up £52,706 or
25.5 p.c.) shown against “stocks
and stores at cost less deprecia-
tion.” There seems little like-
lihood of a lift in the div.-rate
before completion of the pro-
posed plant-extensions, and
proceeds of the current term’s
note-issue; substantial pro-
visions for depreciation and
retained earnings should enable
the co. to carry out this work
without further assistance from
shareholders.
Building-plans announced by
several large cos. suggest that
Adelaide may experience the
boom in commercial building
evident in Sydney and Mel-
bourne over the past few years,
and, with a long list of
Government projects, this
should keep S.A. Portland
Cement and its sole competitor
in S.A., Adelaide Cement Co.,
Ltd., busy for some time to
come.
At balance-date the f.-p. £1
ords. had a net tangible back-
ing of 435. 5d., the scrip 'at
31s. 9d. returning £6 ss. lid.
from a 10 p.c. div.
Z. R. Holdings, Ltd.
enough, the
virtual collapse of the spot
market for Australian rutile
has caused the sharemarket to
adopt a rather wary (and
certainly more discriminating)
attitude towards scrip in beach-
mining cos., providing a sharp
contrast to the extravagant bids
made last year and earlier this
year. However, the immediate
outlook for a number of large
and well-established producers
is reasonably bright,. although
the possible demand for
titanium-oxide in, say, three or
four years remains a subject
for conjecture.
Pioneer rutile-zircon miner
of the Australian east coast,
Z. R. Holdings, Ltd., has suffi-
cient forward contracts at
“satisfactory” prices to “ensure
profitable operations for some
years,” according to chairman
Wallace H. Smith, with a
number of contracts extending
until 1962.
The main Z. R. subsidiary,
Zircon Rutile Pty., has been
treating beach sands at Byron
Bay (N.S.W.) for the last 23
years, establishing a plant at
Boggingar, 30 miles north of
Byron Bay, in 1955 and
another at Port Macquarie
(N.S.W.) in the following year.
An indifferent performer early
in its career, the co.’s earnings
have varied with the erratic
zircon and rutile markets, but
divs. (ranging from 5 p.c. to
the equivalent of 190 p.c.) have
been sent out in all but one of
the past 13 years.
An 18-for-100 bonus-issue
late in 1956 preceded the
formation of Z. R. Holdings,
which, last April, offered to
exchange four of its 10s. shares
for each 10s. share in Zircon
Rutile. The parent co. also
holds 50 p.c. of the share-
capital in Titanium
tion of Australia Pty., which
works heavy mineral deposits
at Tewantin (Q.), and with
Whale Industries, Ltd., it
formed Tangalooma Minerals
Pty. in 1956 to treat sands on
Moreton Island.
First accounts from the
newly-formed holding - cfo.
cover the activities of its two
subsidiaries, Zircon Rutile Pty.
and Z.R.L. Pty., for the year to
June 30 last. While these
accounts reflect the “boom”
rutile prices which sent so
many concerns scurrying on to
the east-coast beaches, apart
from mentioning that “pro-
duction of saleable minerals
was 39,886 tons,”, they give no
indication of the current rate
of throughput, the individual
quantities of rutile, zircon,
monazite, etc., produced, or the
estimated size of the various
deposits.
Net profit for the year, after
providing £149,335 (up £96,835)
for taxation and £70,391 (up
£47,330) for depreciation,
jumped by £140,350, to equal
77 p.c. of paid capital. A 100
p.c. interim div. paid before
the holding-co. took over and
a final 22\ p.c. made the total
distribution worth 47| p.c. on
capital as it now stands, the
wide div.-cover improving
prospects of a reasonable return
in the current term despite the
weakness of rutile prices.
Mineral leases appear in the
balance-sheet at £16,700, fixed
assets at £419,841 (mainly cost,
less depreciation), and shares
in associated cos. at £31,619.
Current assets (£639,032), of
which £300,310 is in cash,
bonds, etc., and £149,278 in
stocks and stores, exceeded
total liabilities by £214,681 at
the end of the term. The issue
of scrip to shareholders in
Zircon Rutile was completed
in the current term to give
Z. R. Holdings a paid capital
of £602,400.
Priced at over 31s. six
months ago, the f.-p. 10s. ords.
now fetch around 16s. 9d.


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The neo - bar-
Rere acts like
a hand when
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, control
your hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
v Write today for Free Literature
Barrere Distribution Company
Dept. 3a, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
Warwick
PRESBYTERIAN
Schools
era
JIL
Rolls Now
Open for
BOARDERS w« 1958
At the SCOTS COLLEGE,
boys from 6 years of age up
to University Matriculation
enrolled. Full schooling in
Academic, Commercial,
Manual Training Courses.
Principal:
Mr. A. W. Briggs, B.A.
PRESBYTERIAN GIRLS’ COLLEGE
At the PRESBYTERIAN
GIRLS’ COLLEGE,
thorough education from
Preparatory Grade to
University Matriculation,
Full Academic, Commercial,
Domestic Science Courses.
Joint Principals:
Mrs. B. Crombie, B.Sc.,
Mrs. H. Green, M.A.
First Term commences: 28th January, 1958
Fees for Senior Boarders for 1958: £BB per term,
WRITE TO DA Y FOR PROSPECTUS TO:
The Principal
The Scots College
WARWICK. Q’LD.
The Joint Principals
The Presbyterian Girls’
CoIIege,WARWICK.Q’LD.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
rrHERE is a good deal of
truth in a recent allega-
tion by Dr. O. C. Mazengarb,
Q.C., that present-day politics
have degenerated into a cal-
culation as to which party can
offer the biggest number of
paper-pounds to the greatest
number of voters.
Forgetting about the Social
Credit Party, which operates in
the realms of science-fiction,
neither of the two major
parties, National and Labor,
is blameless.
National knows better, but
has allowed itself to be tempted
into joining in the election
bidding.
It is impossible to find any
justification whatsoever for its
promise to give parents £25 for
each- child starting secondary
school to help pay for books
and clothing.
'The Government has shown
lack of courage in failing to
take necessary, but unpopular,
steps before the, election to
stop the running-down of over-
seas reserves. And it knows
full well that handouts such as
£2s will make its task
more difficult when it does
belatedly set about it.
If that is true of National,
however, what can be said of
Labor?
Its leader, Mr. Nash, that
wizard of finance, is under-
taking to conjure up £5O million
to £6O million out of nowhere
to carry out a whole series of
glittering promises which can
only have disastrous inflation-
ary effects. It is plain that, to
gain favor at the polls with, the
less-well-informed section of
the electorate, he is prepared
to juggle recklessly with the
country’s economic future.
Walsh Speaks Up
A timely warning has come,
strangely enough, from none
other than the president of the
Federation of Labor, F. P.
Walsh.
In a statement which rated
headlines in all newspapers
and was the conversational
topic of the day he said:
“... .New Zealand has been
seriously over-spending its
overseas funds, and, if present
trends continue, will soon be
involved in a serious crisis
over balance-of-payments....
‘‘Altogether, the trends in
dairy-produce and wool prices
point to a reduction of about
£4O million in our export
income unless a miracle
happens
“As part of his election
policy the Prime Minister is
promising to pay still more
pound-notes to the electors —
about £9 million in his pro-
posals on universal superannu-
ation and aid to secondary-
school students, for example—,
without any more production
to back it dp....
“The only means by which
the Prime .Minister can find
the additional £9 million is by
a redistribution of income
through taxation or by the use
of Reserve Bank credit....
“Even in this age of atomic
power and space-satellites
science has not found a way to
make pound-notes edible and
able to support life. They are
only worth what they will buy.
The country’s prosperity and
our standard-of-living depend
on the goods and services pro-
duced in our country....
“Our own economic condi-
tions and the state of our over-
seas markets make it plain that
the Government elected at the
end of this month* no matter
what color it is, will be faced
with serious difficulties.”
How true! But, if the Gov-
ernment’s proposals -are in-
flationary, those of the Labor
Party are infinitely more so.
Mr. Walsh must know that very
well; it would be twfair to him
to think otherwise.
Mr. Walsh’s warning has
been underlined by the October
overseas exchange figures.
Compared with,the previous
October, export receipts were
£3.5 million down at £13.6
million, while private imports
were £2.8 million up at £24.3
million, and the month’s deficit
was £15.2 million, against £5
million.
For jthe 12 months to the
end of October, compared with
the previous 12 months, export
receipts were £6.3 million up
at £287 million, but private
imports were £20.4 million up
at £255 million, and there was
a deficit of £14.2 million,
against a surplus of £4.6
million.
At November 6 net overseas
assets were down to £66.2
million, compared with £77.1
million a year before and £68.5
million in November, 1955.
The problem represented by
falling income and rising pay-
ments will have to be tackled
one way or another by the new
Government, and anything
which increases inflationary
pressure will make the solu-
tion more difficult.
Holyoake in Reply
Replying to Mr. Walsh,
Prime Minister Holyoake said
that ruin was not just around
the corner, but admitted that
national finances would have
to be carefully watched in the
next few months.
The Minister of Industries
and Commerce, Mr. Halstead,
commenting on the £ 14.2-mil-
lion deficit in exchange trans-
actions for the October year,
said there was no cause for
alarm.
Advice received from the
shipping-companies indicated
that there would be a sharp
decline in imports from the
end of the year onward. For
technical reasons receipts for
exports were coming in later
this year than usual, and pros-
pects for exports, apart from
dairy produce, were still good,
he said.
On the evidence of these and
other similar statements the
Government does seem to be
inclined to take the problems
which lie ahead far too
lightly.
Nevertheless, it is certainly
true that its election-promises
would do much less than those
of Labor to aggravate the
trouble, and its general policy
would be more likely than that
of Labor to bring about a satis-
factory correction without
putting the whole country in a
straightjacket of irksome
restrictions.
If Mr. Nash has his way, as he
had it once before, the economy
will be subjected to severe dis-
torting pressures and attempts
will be made to keep it in shape
by the use of a series of con-
trols which will themselves set
up new pressures. Inflation
may be suppressed, but it will
certainly not be cured.
The main problem which the
Government will have to
grapple with after the election
is the marketing of dairy-
produce.
Mr. H. E. Blyde, a former
member of the Dairy Products
Marketing Commission, said
this month that, if butter and
cheese prices remained at their
present level, the estimated
loss on the sale of last season’s
produce would be about £12.5
million and the industry’s re-
serves would, be reduced to
£15.5 million. If present prices
were maintained till -til this
season’s produce was sold, that
£15.5 million would also be
gone. ,
There was nothing to indi-
cate that any major recovery
in prices would be made over
the next three years. The
present trend was still down-
ward.
The acting-chairman of the
N.Z. Dairy Board, A. Hayward,
has confirmed that, unless dairy-
produce prices improve, it is
possible that the whole of the
industry’s reserves will be used
up by the end of 1958.
There was no more serious
problem facing the country, he
said.
Dairy-produce will be the
main item on the agenda when
a New Zealand delegation dis-
cusses agricultural and trade
problems with the British Gov-
ernment in London at the end
of this month.


BARNEY'S CHOOK
By JOHN HORNER
BARNEY’S seat on a
bicycle was more digni-
fied than dashing, spec-
tacular rather than
speedy. His back was very
straight and his handlebars
were very wide and very
upright. !
The breeze ballooned gently
into his floating coat-corners as
he rode. His boots, big as a
deep-sea diver’s against his
clipped - in trousers - legs,
travelled remorselessly with the
revolving pedals. He rode along
the level stretches and sailed
dauntlessly down the gentle
inclines. At anything which
felt like a hill he got off and
walked. It didn’t matter to
Barney. He had all the time
there was.
Lennie Button, thirtyish and
loud-mouthed, was renewing
rotten fence-posts along the
side of the road. He saw
Barney coming and said to
Charlie Cask, his eighteen-year-
old helper, “Here comes that
thieving old Barney. I’ll have
i bit of fun with him, you'll
, ee.”
Barney slipped the strap of
he sugarbag off his shoulder
nd hung it over the handles
if the bike. “ ’Ow are yez?” he
aid.
“To tell you the truth,
3arney, I’m a bit worried,” Len
>aid, winking at Charlie.
“Worried, are y’?” Barney
had had Len Button pull his
leg before.
“Yes, Barney. You wouldn't
believe it, but I left a couple of
postholes here when I went
home last night and this morn-
ing blow me if they hadn’t
gone.”
“Gone, had they? Gohon!”
“They’d gone all right. I
don’t suppose you’ve seen ’em
anywhere?”
“They might be with that
spade you reckon you lost last
week.”
Charlie Cask burst out
laughing. But the joke was
against Lennie and he began
to turn nasty,
“The police are coming to
see about that spade. They'll
soon find out who took it.
I wouldn’t like to be the joker
that did.”
“They might find y’r post-
holes, too,” Barney suggested.
Charlie laughed again in
obvious enjoyment of Lennie’s
discomfiture,
‘Til see y ez j n morning,
then,” Barney said, and, mount-
j n g hj s bicycle, rolled off with
unruffled majesty,
y ENNIE and Charlie watched
him go. Charlie was glad
that Barney had taken the wind
out 0 f Lennie’s sails,
„ •„
old Barn f y i. n , ot „ ? s Sl " y
as some people think, he said.
“Somethmg’U 'ave to be
done . ab ?“‘ ,™' , Len "‘ e said-
“urly' Npthm* s safe when
e ou ', , ,
. - *?' h .f
found near old Watkins fence ?
'° f “ ur f t e . you have it,'
?J d .Wflkms satd ; do you
think I m going to have you
cutting down trees across my
boundary fence?” A couple of
days later there was a fire and
the tree was burned down and
=dhe honey and the fence both
spoiled. Old Watkins could
never pin it on Barney. ‘lf
you’d let me cut it down it
wouldn’t’ve fell _ acrost y’r
boundary fence,’ hej said, when
Watkins tackled him. I thought
old Watkins would have had
a fit.”
Charlie Cask could see that
Lennie was annoyed, so he
laughed a little louder at the
thought of Barney’s exploits
than he need have done. “And
there was the time that Bill
Daniels tried to take him down
for the spuds he dug”
“Yair, I v know,” Lennie
interrupted. “There’ll be some-
thing of his missing one of
these fine mornings. I’ll teach
him a lesson before he’s much
older, you see if I don’t.”
“But what’s Barney got that
anyone could take?”
“There must be something.”
“But there ain’t. Lives with
his old mother and he gits a
pension because he’s a bit soft.
I ask you, what’s he got?”
“There’s his bike, ain’t
there?”
“Yes, there’s his bike. And
when he’s not riding his bike
he’s wheeling it, and when he’s
not wheeling it he’s leaning on
it.”
“What about that flaming
chook of his?”
“His chook! Ah, ’struth,
Lennie, you wouldn’t touch the
poor coot’s clwok!”
“I didn’t say I would,” Lennie
muttered, ramming the dirt in
hard round the post. “I was
just telling you, that’s all. He’d
better leave my things alone, if
he don’t want no harm to come
to anything of his.”
They carried on with the job
in silence.
TiARNEY rode on to the
small cottage at the foot of
the hills.
The old hen shook herself
out of her dust-hole at the side
of the barn and strutted towards
Barney as he pushed the bicycle
up the track to the house.
Low, querulous gurglings
came from her throat and
Barney answered her. He
picked her up, placed her on
the handle-bars and went on to
the house.
“Kwooorrrk, kwooorrrk,”
said Barney; and the hen
answered shortly and gruffly,
“Kwoork,” and settled stolidly
on the handle-bars. She was,
apparently, a hen with little
use for small talk.
At the back-door
took the hen off the handle-bars
and put her down on the step.
Then he pushed the bicycle
through the kitchen and into
his bedroom. He had not
always kept it there. When he
had first bought it he had put
it in the shed at the bottom of
the yard, but the boys from the
neighboring farm had loosened
the handle-bars one night and
Barney had gone head-first into
the blackberries at Red Water
Creek.
His mother had his midday
meal ready. She was a frail,
lizardlike little woman who
seemed almost ready to emerge,
as though from a cast-off skin,
from the overlarge neck of her
straight, loose frock. They a.te
in silence while the mother read
the paper which Barney had
brought.
After dinner Barney put the
hen on his shoulder and
sauntered up the bush path
between the wattles and the tall
ferns. The track was well used ;
the stones protruded where the
soil had been worn away and
here and there the roots of a
wattle lay bare. The track led
to the base of a low cliff. A
log had fallen from the top and
now formed a natural ramp to
a small ledge about half-
way up.
Barney walked up the sloping
log which was completely
hidden between the cliff and the
tall scrub, and entered a
narrow fissure in the rock. The
old hen protested weekly and
dug her toes into the shoulder
of Barney’s coat, half-rising
and half-opening her wings
every now and then. The
passage through the rock
turned sharply to the right and
Barney was in a small niche
overlooking the valley. A bare
patch had been worn in the


earth underfoot, for Barney
had been here many times.
He sat down now, his back
pressed hard against the rock,
his long arms round his knees.
The hen squatted on the ground
beside him and blinked a cold,
bored eye through her trans-
parent eyelid.
Spread out below Barney was
the valley. He could see where
the grey road appeared
suddenly round the black bulk
of Rogers’ Rocks and, away at
the other end of the valley,
disappeared fitfully into the
trees at the foot of Puffer’s
Peak. Between the two points
five farms and several small
cottages lay in the golden
afternoon sunlight. This was
Barney’s world and from his
crevice in the rock he kept a
watchful eye upon it.
He had an amazing fund of
information about everyone’s
activities. He knew what each
farmer was doing at any
particular time. He saw, to the
occasional discomfort of a
neighbor, things that no one
was supposed to see and was
often delighted by the effect
produced by the odd snippets
of information he let fall. He
knew more than anyone else
in the valley, and people, if
they were in doubt about any-
thing, said jokingly, “I’ll have
to ask Barney.” Barney knew
of his reputation and was proud
of it. It was his reason for
being.
In the distance he could see
Mrs. Rogers moving the cows
from the top marsh into the
long-bottom. The Jones boys,
on the other side of the river,
looked as though they were
going to work late. They had
borrowed, Barney noticed,
Blake’s white horse. They often
did that.
Barney sat on into the late
afternoon.
TUST below him, where the
" pointed shadows of the
gums stretched across the road,
he saw Lennie and Charlie
getting ready to knock off for
the day.
He saw Lennie take the
fencing-tools and hide them
beneath a log halfway up the
hill. Barney laughed to himself
and slapped his leg in satis-
faction. He saw Charlie and
Lennie set off home, Charlie
walking, Lennie riding his
bicycle. From time to time
Lennie’s bicycle would dis-
appear behind a clump of trees.
It would reappear, wobbling up
a hill or gliding down an
incline with a motionless
Lennie, shaped like a badly
made question-mark, super-
imposed on it.
Barney watched with especial
interest when Lennie came near
to Tilly Norton’s turn-off.
Several times he had seen
Lennie stop there and push his
bicycle into the bush. A few
minutes later he would see him
reappear from the clump of
wattles opposite Tilly’s house.
He would then dash across the
toad, run furtively down the
side path and disappear
through the back gate.
Barney knew a lot about
Tilly Norton. She had a f>ad
name, and when the shearers
and the men from the
threshing-plant were ’ in the
valley some of them spent a lot
of time at her place. At
different times in the past men,
mostly from outside the valley,
had called a few times on Tilly
but, after a few weeks, had not
called again. Lennie was the
only person who was calling on
Tilly now.
It was something that Barney
did not understand very clearly.
Lennie often mentioned Tiily,
but not as a friend, or as
someone that he called upon.
On the contrary he made jokes
about her, bad jokes which
filled Barney with a strange and
uncomfortable excitement. For
some reason that he did not
understand Barney had kept his
knowledge of Lennie’s visits to
Tilly Norton’s to himself.
He forgot Tilly now as he
saw Lennie ride past the turn-
off and go on to his own
cottage at the foot of the hill.
His eyes followed the valley
road from end to end. The
green of the marsh paddocks
was deepening as the day drew
on. Barney laughed quietly and
began talking to the hen in a
tone of exuberant confidence.
“Now, Chook, I wonder why
he went to the trouble to put
his tools right up under that
log?” He laughed aloud, and
the hen cleared her eye to
look at him. “We know a thing
or two, don’t we, old Chook?
We know that Lennie’s spade’s
in that clump of blackberries at
Red Water Crick. We know
that there’s two coils of wire at
the bottom of Thompson’s
lagoon. We know* all sorts of
things, don’t we, Chook?” .He
laughed again, slapping his
legs and hugging his knees'in
the excess of his satisfaction.
The shadows of the hills hadh
fallen across the valley road -
and the chimney-smoke had
begun to crumple beneath the
cooling air before Barney left
his lookout and, the hen still
secure on his shoulder,
descended the track. As he
neared home he pushed over a
rotten wattle and carried it to
the woodheap. He had started
to cut it up when his mother
called him. He put down the
axe and went inside.
“Your tea’s ready,” his
mother said. “Where’ve you
bin?”
“Up the bush,” Barney
replied. Then he added as an
afterthought, “After wood.”
“You’ve bin a powerful time
about it,” she sighed. *
“I know.” Barney offered no
further explanation.
“Did you see anyone on your
way to the post today?” the
mother asked as they began
eating.
“Only Lennie Button and
Charlie Cask.”
“What’d they have to say?”
“Nothing.”
“N othi n g! Didn’t they
speak?”
“Yair, they spoke but they
didn’t say hothing.”
The woman shook her head
and sighed. “I don’t know,
Barney. You’re an unnatural
boy. Never a bit of news for
your poor old mother. I bet
I’d find out a few things if I
got round as much as you do.”
They finished the meal almost
in silence and soon afterwards
Barney, who did not read and
found the evenings boring,
went to bed.
r "FHE first thing he noticed
■*- next morning was that the
hen was not gt the back-door
as usual.
He called her, first by name
and then with the “Kwooorrrk”
call in which they conversed.
There was no reply. She
was not in the shed where she
was roosted each evening, nor
anywhere in the yard as far as
he could see. He threw out a
few handfuls of grain but,
although all the others came
clucking their surprise and
delight, there was ho sign of
Barney’s hen.
He made a tloser inspection
of the shed, turning over a few
bags with the toe of his boot
and pulling out the boxes from
the wall. But it was quite
evident that the hen was not
there. Barney suspected Lennie
immediately. He noticed the
marks of heavy boots, smaller
than his own, across the soft
earth of the yard.
After breakfast he got on
his bicycle and rode off to
where Lennie and Charlie
Cask were fencing. He dis-
mounted and leaned against the
bicycle.
“How are y’?” he said.
“Why, good-day, Barney! ”
Lennie said, and the amusement
Barney had expected was in his
voice. “You’re about early this
morning.”
“Yair. Pretty early.”
“What’s the matter, Barney?
Have you lost something?”
' ‘‘Yair.”
“Lost something, have y’?
What you lost, Barney?”
“Someone’s took me chook.”
“Took y’r chook!” There
was delight and simulated
surprise in Lennie’s voice.
“Now what sort of a coot’d do
a thing like that?”
“I dunno,” said Barney,
taking note of the pattern of
the nails in the soles of Lennie’s
boots.
They were the boots that had
left their print across the sand
of Barney’s backyard.
“What’d you say, Barney, if
I was to tell you that I knew
where y’r'chook is?”
“I’d say you was telling the
truth, for onest.”
“Would you, Mr. Smart?
You wouldn’t be likely to tell
me that you know where me
spade is?”
“I know where y’r spade is.’*
“You do? Funny thing, but
I thought you did,” Lennie
said, triumphantly. “Where is
it?”
“It’s under that log up the
hill.”
“Not that one”-- Lennie
broke off suddenly. “How do
you know?”
Lennie’s angry shout was
drowned in the roar of laughter
from Charlie Cask.
“Now, look here,” Lennie
said, striding menacingly over
to Barney. “I’ve had about
enough of you. You tell me
what you’ve done with that
spade, or else.”
Barney looked him up and
down imperturbably. “Where
do you reckon me chook’d be?”
he asked.
“Blast y’r chook!” Lennie
picked up his hammer and
began banging staples into the
newly-erected post.
“I thought you said you
knew,” Barney said.
T ENNIE’S anger had died
down. He slipped the
hammer through the loop at
the back of his overalls and
leant across the top of the post.
“It’s lucky for you I was out
last night, Barney,” he said,
impressively.
“Out, was you?” Barney was
noncommittal.
- “After a couple of rabbits.
And who should I meet coming
up the road from your place
with a bag on her back than
Tilly Norton. ‘Hello, Tilly,’ I
says, ‘what’ve you got there?*
‘Well,’ she says, ‘if you don’t
let on, I’ll tell you. It’s Barney’s
chook.’ ‘Now,’ I says, ‘what are
you doing with Barney’s
chook?’ ‘Well,’ she says, ‘as a
(Continued on page 56)


CRUISE OF THE PINGUIN
By J. A. NOBLE
CAPTURE of an entire
whaling-fleet of 14 ships
by one war-time raider is
rightly rated as the most
successful single operation of
its kind. The raider was the
Pinguin; the prize was
captured in the Antarctic early
in 1941 —and without the
firing of a single shot!
Formerly the Hansa line*-
Kandenfels, Pinguin was a
7766-ton motorship capable of
18 knots. She was armed with
six 5.9 in. guns and four
torpedo-tubes. When she left
Germany on June 22, 1940,
she carried 300 mines destined
for Australian waters.
Commanded by Captain
Felix Kruder, a 43-year-old
officer who had joined the
German Navy as a lower-deck
rating in 1915, Pinguin sneaked
out through Denmark Strait in
poor visibility disguised as the
Russian merchantman Pet-
schura. In the clear summer
weather that followed, Kruder
crept along the edge of the
Greenland pack-ice awaiting
more mist and rain for the
dash southwards into the
Atlantic. He made it on July 1.
Once in the Atlantic the Russian
disguise was more likely to
attract attention than other-
wise ; it was discarded in
favor of that of the Greek
cargo-ship Kassos.
Pinguin had on board 70 tons
of diesel-oil, 11 torpedoes, and
supplies for the submarine UA.
which was met in mid-Atlantic
on July 17. Bad weather
prevented the U-boat from
berthing alongside the raider,
so the goods were floated
across on rubber rafts. The
transfer took seven days—the
first occasion on which a
U-boat was supplied by a
raider.
The raider’s first victim was
met on July 31 the British
freighter Domingo de Larri-
naga, homeward bound with
Argentine wheat. Four of her
crew were killed as they gamely
defied the German 5.9 ,j s with
their 4iij. gun ; 32 others were
taken prisoner before the
Britisher was sunk by torpedo.
Two other raiders were
operating in the South Atlantic,
and Kruder headed for the
Indian Ocean. Off Madagascar
on August 26, Pinguin's sea-
plane sighted the Norwegian
tanker The aircraft,
wearing British markings,
signalled the tanker not to use
the radio on account of
German raiders being in the
vicinity ; but to follow instruc-
tions. The Norwegian captain
was suspicious, but the tanker
was eventually captured. She
was scuttled with 10,000 tons
of petrol the following morning.
Soon afterwards the tanker
British Commander and the
Norwegian cargo - ship
Morviken were both captured
arid sunk*. It was the captain of
the Morviken who informed
Kruder that he had at first
identified the raider as a
Norwegian Wilhelmsen liner.
His suspicions had been
aroused by the Greek flag, there
being few modern Greek ships
in the Indian Ocean at that
time. Pinguin’s appearance
was immediately altered to
simulate a Norwegian freighter,
the Wilhelmsen name Trafalgar
being temporarily adopted.
Two days later the captain
and 20 of the crew of the Ben
liner Benavon were killed when
they disobeyed the raider’s
order to stop and maintain
wireless-silence. Benavon was
sunk by gunfire. Her signals
had disclosed Pinguin’s posi-
tion, which might embarrass
the raider Atlantis, also opera-
ting in the vicinity. Kruder
headed for Australia on a
minelaying expedition.
On th» way he captured the
4000-ton Norwegian motorship
Nordvard, laden with Aus-
tralian wheat. Fuelled and
provisioned for 60 days, a
prize - crew took her to
Germany with Pinguin’s 200
prisoners.
Off the West Australian coast
on October 7 the Norwegian
tanker Storstad, with 12,000
tons of diesel-oil for Melbourne
and Adelaide, was intercepted
and taken intact. Pinguin’s
fuel-tanks were topped-up, and
100 mines were transferred to
Storstad, Kruder reasoning that
a tanker would be least likely
to be suspected of jninelaying.
While Pinguin proceeded
eastwards to lay mines between
“Chicken chow-mein with dim-sims and fried rice.”
Sydney and Newcastle, off
Hobart and near Spencer’s.
Gulf, Storstad, renamed
Passat for the occasion, mined
Banks and Bass Straits. Raider
and tanker met again on
November 15, by which time
two ships had already been
sunk by mines in Bass Strait.
Still using the tanker as an
auxiliary, Pinguin sank four
food-ships in a fortnight. The
first was on the night of
November 17, the British-
India cargo-liner Nowshera,
homeward bound with wheat,
wool and zinc from Adelaide.
Sighted while the raider's
engines were stopped for over-
haul, Nowshera had been
caught and sunk by midnight.
Her crew of 113, mostly lascars,
were unwelcome guests.
Next day the Shaw, Savill
steamer Mairnoa was sighted.
With her aerial snatched away
by the seaplane, she was
ordered to stop under penalty
of bombing and shelling.
Maimoa made smoke and
steamed on ; but she had been
overtaken and captured by
nightfall. Another 87 prisoners
crowded the raider’s holds;
another 10,000 toes of much-
needed food for Britain went
to the bottom of the Southern
Ocean.
Maimoa was quickly
followed by the 9000-ton Port
Brisbane, also homeward bound
with frozen cargo. She was
sunk by torpedo after 60
passengers and crew abandoned
her ; one lifeboat escaped in
the dark, and was later picked
up by an Australian warship.
Ten days later Port Brisbane’s
sister-ship Port Wellington
was also sunk, after being
shelled and set on lire at night.
More than 400 prisoners
from the latest victims were
transferred to Storstad, which,
after disposing of her diesel-
oil into the supply-tanker
Nordmark* arrived safely at
the Gironde on February 4.
K ruder knew that the
whaling-fleet was operating
within a range of 300 miles of
South Georgia, and Pinguin
was headed in that direction.
Ice was encountered on
December 17, south of the
African continent. Soon after-
wards whalers were heard
talking to the factory-ships by
radio-telephone. Directional
bearings enabled Kruder to


:x*xvx-x*w
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
gf ■ ' '■ . -.
«/<v> ** •*',*> * £
mm.
<***
HI
: : '■:■
• T
in
%
*
n
m
ISAM
)|ooq e
for Smart Men
It’s the new Crusader pattern book, of course.
Call in and see it at your favorite tailor’s.
A combination of good cloth and good tailoring
must result in good-grooming
and your own fingers will tell you
that these.are the richest, spftest,
most attractive pure wool worsteds you’ve ever handled.
They’ve been keenly selected for colour and quality ...
and they’re guaranteed NEVER to fade or shrink.
FOR YOUR NEXT SUIT
INSIST ON
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
position himself between them
and the open sea northwards.
Bad weather took a hand,
The factory-ship Ole Wegger
was reported to be sheltering in
the lee of the pack-ice, while
Pelagos rode out the storm in
the open sea. From their con-
versations on the radio-tele-
phone Kruder learned that both
factory-ships were practically
filled to capacity with whale-oil,
while their fuel supplies were
practically exhausted. Their
supply-tanker was already a
fortnight overdue; the third
factory - ship, Thorshammer,
was 400 miles south-westwards.
Pinguin waited, hoping to
catch the tanker, too.
Conditions had improved by
January 13. The- 12,000-ton
supply-tanker Solglimt was
berthed alongside Ole Wegger,
refilling her fuel-tanks. The
raider stealthily sneaked up out
of a snowstorm. Without firing
a shot, and without a hint of
the attack reaching the other
ships, Solglimt, with 9500 tons
of fuel-oil, and Ole Wegger,
with 11,500 tons of whale-oil,
were taken. Both ships wer®
well provisioned; Solglimt,
with a crew of 60 and accom-
modation for 300 others ; Ole
Wegger with a crew of 190.
Four whale-chasers were also
captured.
Next day, before the other
whalers’ suspicions were
aroused, Pelagos was captured
without shot or alarm.
Another 9000 tons of whale-
oil ; another well-provisioned
crew of 110; another seven
whale-catchers— 36,000 tons of
factory - ship - tankers, 20,000
tons of whale-oil, 10,000 tons of
fuel-oil, eleven 300-ton chasers,
and about 400 prisoners, all
taken without loss within two
days!
Pelagos and Solglimt, filled to
capacity with whale-oil, were
sent to Germany with the
prisoners. Ten of the chasers
followed. Ole Wegger (full of
fuel-oil) and one catcher went
with Pinguin to the South
Atlantic rendezvous. The
chaser was fitted-out as an
auxiliary for the raider and
renamed Adjutant.
Ample supplies of eggs and
meat were obtained from the
prize Duquesa, which was being
towed around the South
Atlantic by the tanker Nord-
mark. Duquesa had been taken
by the pocket-battleship Scheer
with a full frozen cargo.
Pinguin and Adjutant left for
Kerguelen Island on February
18 ; anchoring in the safe and
sheltered harbor of the isolated
island on March 12. For two
(Continued on page 41)


Storm in a Beermug
ALLEGATIONS that Labor Govern-
ments in their handling of liquor
laws are unduly lenient towards the
breweries are nothing .new. Their history
may not go back as far as the first
breweries, but the stories have been
current almost as long as Labor Govern-
ments. One of the chief points of criti-
cism is what is known as the “tied-
house’’ system.
At the present time the tied-house
system is under fire from within the Labor
party in two States —New South Wales
and Queensland. It may seem strange
that such criticism should come at this
stage from A.L.P. men. Labor Govern-
ments have ruled New South Wales since
1941 and Queensland (until a few months
ago) since 1932, so an attack on the
liquor laws is by implication an attack
on Labor. The explanation, of course,
is bound up with Labor’s family quarrel.
In Queensland the men at present carry-
ing the official A.L.P. banner (with the
Evatt device) have evolved a dual inter-
pretation of history which enables them
to accept any bouquets the past has to
offer and to reject all the brickbats.
Anything in Queensland’s history
which seems likely to carry any political
kudos is eagerly claimed as the work of
the genuine Labor party, of which they
are the only legitimate successors. On
the other hand anything discreditable or
embarrassing is disowned as being the
work not of genuine Labor men, but of
Gair deviationists.
This bifocal outlook enables them now
to question the tied-house system and to
demand an inquiry into the liquor-trade,
although they made no move to do so
while in office. The breweries are as
good a stick as any with which to take
a crack at the Q.L.P.
A similar philosophy seems to be
behind the raising of the question in
N. S. Wales Labor ranks. The Evatt
faction finds it necessary every now
and then to remind the Cahill Gov-
ernment that its grip on the party is far
from secure and that what, happened to
the Gairs could well be repeated in New
South Wales. The placing of Dougherty
in the Legislative Council and his out-
burst against the Government for not
trying to abolish that Chamber is one
recent instance; the tied-house pother
could well be another.
Origins of the Tied-house
When Mr. Justice Maxwell conducted
a .royal commission into the liquor laws
of N.S.W. a few years ago the tied-house
system was one of his terms of reference.
In his report he prefaced his findings by
saying it was first of all necessary to have'
a clear understanding of what was meant
by the term, since there seemed to be a
widespread misconception of its meaning,
its nature and incidence.
Tracing the history of the system, he
saicHhat in England the inns and taverns
were originally also breweries, producing
ale for their own customers. In time the
position arose where an individual inn-
keeper, a little more progressive than
his fellows, acquired one or more other
houses and stocked them with ale brewed
at his original premises. A variant would
be the purchase of a number of houses
by one man, who then started a brewery
to supply them. As this process developed
more and more, individual brewing
tended to die out and most inns became
dependent on brewers for their beer.
Later, said Maxwell, as innkeepers found
themselves faced with the need for carry-
ing - out repairs or extending their
premises, a natural source of financial
assistance was the brewer. When the
brewer lent the money, he obtained from
the retailer a covenant or agreement not
to sell the beer of any other brewer. If
the' retailer’s position was really pre-
carious he might sell his public-house to
the brewer, who might let it to him as a
tenant (subject to covenant) or install a
manager.
From these beginnings grew the tied-
house system as it exists today in both
Britain and Australia—Judge Maxwell
says the conditions are substantially the
same in both countries. The circum-
stances and form of the tie vary but the
effect is the same.
1400 Tied-houses *
According to the Maxwell Report of
1954 there were then in New South Wales
2028 publican's licences and of these 69
per cent, or approximately 1400 were tied
to breweries. The bulk were tied to the
two major brewing companies—Tooth’s,
1003 ; Toohey’s, 329. The South Aus-
tralian Brewing Co. held 25 ties, all of.
them in Broken Hill; British Breweries,
12 ; Carlton United, 12 ; Richmond, 4;
Lithgow, 2. Other N. S. Wales breweries
had no beneficial interest in ties. These
were Brookvale Brewery, Federal Brewery
(Mudgee) and Terry’s Brewery (Lith-
gow).
The report says of the tie that it is
an instance of what is known in law'as
“a "covenant in restraint of trade.”
In more popular expression ii is a device
or arrangement b'y which a tenant (or
other person affected) of licensed premises
undertakes to purchase from the land-
lord (the brewery-owner) or the mortgagee
(being the brewer) and from no one else
either all his beer or all his beer and other
commodities, for instance, wines, spirits,
cordials, tobacco —generally at agreed prices
fixed in or ascertainable by reference to the
document containing the “tie.”
Such devices are not peculiar to the
liquor-trade ; they are familiar in other
businesses, such as ice-cream manufac-
turers, manufacturing-chemists, milk- and
butter-distributors and petrol-distributors.
Judge Maxwell remarks, however, that
the liquor tie more nearly touches the
public by reason of the general recogni-
tion of the potential evil in liquor.
Most Australian breweries —and cer-
tainly Tooth’s and Toohey’s—make pro-
vision for the tie to cover not only the
beer they actually- produce, but also
wines, spirits, cordials and soft-drinks.
However, it was stated in evidence (and
accepted by the commissioner) that in
practice the tie is only insisted on as
regards draught beer. This led the com-
missioner to comment that in that ease
he saw no reason for insisting on the in-
clusion of the other items in the covenant;
“I am of the opinion that a strong case
is made for limiting the effect of the tie
either to draught beer or to all beer the
product of the brewery.”
Recommendations
Reasons advanced in favor of the tied-
house system were that it lessens the cost
of production and distribution ; makes
possible the enlarging and improving of
hotels ; results in continuity of occupancy
and encourages licensees to build up
goodwill and improve their premises ; by
giving effective control it cuts down
offences such as adulteration of liquor,
uncleanliness of premises and so on.
Little evidence was offered against the
system. The report commented that the
system was approved by the U.L.V.A.,
whose obligation is to protect the interests
of publicans and that “U.L.V.A. mem-
bers, mostly selected indiscriminately and
called by counsel assisting the commis-
sion, approved of the system and
expressed the opinion that it was
beneficial to the trade.”
His Honor commented that the views
expressed by U.L.V.A. and its members
must be viewed with great caution —they
could be influenced by a sense of depen-
dence or of favors to come. At the same
time requests to members of the public
had produced little or no factual criticism
of the system. His final summing-up was
that the evidence did not warrant any
attempt to abolish the tied-house system.
Even if it were so, and l am satisfied
that the public interest does not require it,
1 have no doubt that its abolition would be
economically impracticable, a view held
in other places for more than 100 years.
He felt, moreover, that it was equally
impracticable to suggest the prohibition
of future ties. The public interest was
best served by an active and healthy com-
petition so as to ensure against possible
evils from a monopoly, it was claimed
that in the United Kingdom the existence
of a large number of strong breweries
produced that competition which required
the breweries at least in their own needs
to cater for the interests of the public.
In this State that competition should, in
my opinion, be ensured by some provision
against amalgamation or absorption.
This raises the question whether there
can be said to be strong competition in
a system under which two breweries are
the exclusive suppliers of beer to 69 per
cent, of a State’s hotels, besides supplying
portion of the needs of many of the re-
mainder. At the same time it is hard to
see what Cahill’s party-critics hope to
achieve by demanding the reopening of
this question only three years after a royal
commission appointed by their party has
declared it to be neither necessary nor
practicable. ,Do they expect Cahill to
take a course exactly opposite to that
recommended by the royal commissioner?
Do they want another royal commission
on the same subject? _ Or are they just
trying to stir up a storm in a beermug?


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Carnival End
'T"HE Eclipse Stakes —last of
A the important spring handi-
caps in Melbourne —proved an
anticlimax to the main events
ot the carnival. Only a smallish
field of moderate handicappers
accepted for the event, the
£2OOO first-prize going to the
five-year-old Delville Wood
horse Roman Holiday, whose
win vindicated the “horses-for-
courses” theory—he has now
won in four of his last five
starts at Caulfield, but his
form at other city tracks has
been unimpressive.
Nicely handled by Victoria's
leading apprentice, Geoff Lane,
Roman Holiday put in a well-
judged run wide-out to win
clearly from the South Aus-
tralian mare Trois Model and
the grey New Zealander Zariba.
Trainer Des Judd, who has a
reputation for placing his
horses well, wisely scratched
Roman Holiday the previous
Saturday from the much
stronger Williamstown Cup
field.
Gippsland farmers A. W.
Giles and R. L. Brown have a
smart colt in Master Rane, by
imported Saps Tache. Giles
bred the colt from his mare
Lerane, and it’s doubtful if a
better-looking youngster has
been seen out this season than
this well-developed chestnut.
At his previous start, on the
last day of the Melbourne Cup
meeting, the colt had scored a
runaway win in the Flemington
Stakes, and in the first Stans-
more on Saturday he confirmed
that form by winning at his
ease. Master Rane is such a
well - grown youngster that
trainer Fred Hoy Med believes
he requires plenty of work, and
that he will get even better with
racing. He is likely to have a
busy programme leading up to
the Stradbroke Stakes at
Flemington on New Year’s
Day.
Melbourne businessman Neil
Petch is a newcomer to owners’
ranks, but he is prepared to
spend a lot of money to build
up a good team. This year he
has spent some £20,000 on
blood-stock his purchases
include Timor, Rhytihmonic,
Zariba and Astounding. After
Astounding had given Sydney
colt Mighty Kingdom a hard
race on the first day of the
Caulfield Cup meeting, Petch,
in partnership with J. Eglinton,
gave 3000gns. for the
Empyrean colt. Astounding
won his first race for the
partnership when he cleared
right away with the second
division of the Stansmore
Handicap, cutting out the five
furlongs in the smart time of
59.7.
Astounding was prepared by
A. Armanasco, former West
Australian jockey and trainer,
who has set up in Melbourne
for the second time, and was
ridden by Frank Treen, another
“Sat, is that about the position you got that
big fish, mate?”
Westralian, also trying his luck
in Melbourne for the second
time. Petch has transferred his
whole team to Armanasco,
which gives that trainer a good
chance of making a success of
his latest venture.
Sidelight of the day’s racing
at Caulfield was that Ernpyrean
sired three of the eight winners.
One of his winners, the grey
colt Grey Ghost, created a
favorable impression when he
scored easily in the second
division of the six-furlongs
Pelham Handicap, his fourth
successive win. Grey Ghost
worked a profitable passage
from Newcastle . (N.S.W.),
where he won twice, via
Bendigo, where he landed a
betting plunge in an Improvers’
event, to Caulfield, where again
his connections put in fsr a
big win. Ownership of Grey
Ghost is split between J. M.
Condon, J. L. Donovan and
trainer J. W. Barker (also
known as the manager of boxer
George Barnes). Along with
the partnership travelled
veteran jockey Cecil Kelly, who
has the unusual distinction
of never having served an
apprenticeship. Despite which,
Kelly estimates his winners as
close to 2000, and on two
occasions he has “ridden the
card.”
Last autumn the Blue Book-
let (imp.) colt Sports Quiz was
no more than a useful two-
year-old, but he has come up
this spring as one of the
smartest colts in training. He
has had four starts this season,
for two wins, a second and a
third,' and he was never in
danger of defeat in the first
division of the six-furlongs
Pelham; that distance, how-
ever, is as far as he likes to
go.
It was said here last August,
after he had won the Moondah
Plate at Caulfield, that Sir
Pyrean was one of the most
improved sprinters in Mel-
bourne—borne out by Sir
Pyrean’s last two runs. Five
weeks ago he set a course
record when he won the seven-
furlongs Moonga Handicap at
Caulfield in 1.23.7, and last
Saturday he broke the six-
furlongs record at the same
course, winning the Rosstown
Plate in 1.10.2. Gippsland
trainer H. O. Norton has done
a remarkable job with SSr
Pyrean. Now aged, the
Empyrean gelding was a crack
two-year-old, but later broke
down several times. He seems
perfectly sound now, and will
be a popular choice for the
Standish Handicap on New
Year’s Day.
In the Melbourne City Court
last Thursday Mr. P. J.
O’Connor, S.M., found well-
known paddock - bookmaker
Sydney Lyons guilty of having
between January and March
of this year published charts
designed to give betting infor-
mation on the Newmarket
Handicap - Australian Cup
double. He imposed the
minimum fine of £5. The case
was regarded as a test. Now
that it is legally established
that doubles betting on such
events as the Caulfield-
Melbourne Cups contravenes
the Gaming Act a lot of
nationwide interest in those
races will wane, unless the Vic-
torian Government amends the
Gaming Act.
• • •’ •
Jockeys involved in the fall
at Caulfield, mentioned here
last week, did not escape as
lightly as was suggested by
reports issued after that day’s
racing. Although Ron
Hutchinson rode in a couple
of races following the crash, he
was later found to have sus-
tained a broken vertebra, and
may not be able to ride for
some time. W. Williamson
suffered no broken bones, but
his doctor forbade his riding
at Caulfield last Saturday.
* * *
— Sydney, Brisbane
Progeny of Rigoletto (imp.)
were not in keen demand at the
Randwick yearling-sales last
Easter, but he has had two
recent Sydney winners from
the few youngsters that did
find buyers. They were Regal
Jester, who led all the way at
Warwick Farm on October 30,
and Wandella,'who downed the
odds-on favorite, Brendie, at
the latest Warwick Farm fixture
last Saturday.
• • t •
Actually, n<3t many Rigo-
lettos have so far been tried,
but he has had several
winners. Rigoletto himself
started in ' half-a-dozen races,
winning up to If mile. Wan-
della had been working bril-
liantly at Rosebery, where he is
trained by Bob Stuart, who is
racing the filly on lease. She is
from the Felcrag (imp.) mare
Felberta, a Randwick winner.
• • • •
Rosebery trainer R. C.
Stuart wasn’t surprised when
Wandella broke the track-
record for five furlongs. Her
time, 59fsec., was one-fifth of a
second better than Court
Slipper’s, made in the corres-
ponding race last year, and


V
Ilf,
HP
L
DONT LEAVE
UNCLE FRED
OUT ON A LIMB
HIM A SUBSCRIPTION TO
AS A CHRISTMAS-GIFT FROM
THE FAMILY
Every family has it's “Uncle Fred." Very often he is
not a bipod-relative but an old friend of the family
known affectionately by the children as “Uncle,” an
honorary title earned by his many kindnesses and
generosity. Hard to know how to repay him without
offending, for he is the traditional giver but no
“Uncle” would resent a subscription to “The Bulletin,’
the most diplomatic and welcome of gifts to any
mature man.
A gift to “Uncle Fred” has possibly never occurred to
you or the children, nor has a gift from you ever
occurred to him. A gift such as this would therefore
come as a complete surprise.
Our Subscriptions Department will sign, on your
behalf, a greetings-card announcing your gift-subscrip-
tion, and will dispatch it to arrive before Christmas.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
ELSEWHERE
IN THIS ISSUE
• •
* %
* %
* J
SSS
Court Slipper was a brilliant
galloper. Wandella had made
some extra-fast times on the
tracks.
• : '•! • •
Now out of Graduation class,
New Zealand-bred three-year-
old filly Pale Blue wiil be set
tougher tasks, but on her
impressive Warwick Farm dis-
play, when she cleared out from
16 opponents in the Birrong
Stakes, the daughter of Gaba-
dor (Fr.) and Pastel could be
equal to scoring in open com-
pany. She also won at Rand-
wick a few months back. It’s
not surprising that she can
gallop: her dam, Pastel, in win-
ning the C.J.C. Welcome Stakes,
equalled t h e Australasian
record for five furlongs (57f
sec.). Pastel is by Pherozshah
(imp.) from Neutrality by
Bulandshar (imp.).
In open events a class horse
generally has the wood on the
opposition. This happened in
the main sprint event at the
Farm, the Horsley Handicap,
in which Aboukir, handicapped
on 9.7 and conceding up to
351 b. tq rivals, won well in
the fast time of 1.10 7/10, a
fraction outside Gay Vista's
race-record, made in 1954.
Aboukir is a sprinter only, and
doubtful beyond seven
furlongs, so trainer Frank
Dalton intends to keep him
for important sprints of the
Christmas and New Year round
of Randwick fixtures, though
he may have a run before
then. Aboukir is raced by Sir
Sydney Snow, who was at
Warwick Farm to see the
handsome entire win, beating
Flames, who had won at her
four previous starts, and the
fast-finishing Indian Empire,
who will be better suited at
seven furlongs.
The field for last Saturday's
Queensland Cup was far from
strong, the two-miler being won
by four-year-old mare Urgona,
who is by imported Urgay and
is from Quickset. Urgay has
sired a number of useful Bris-
bane gallopers, and this was his
most important success. He
was a good-class performer in
France and England, winning
at from one to two miles and
twice second at 2} miles.
Urgay’s sire, Fiterari, won the
Grand Prix de Paris and ran
second in the French Derby.
The Queensland Cup was run
in the moderate time, of 3.241.
Spear Chief (1939), ridden by
Maurice McCarten, ran 3.191, a
course record, and Australia's
best for several years. Comic
Court, in winning the 1950
Melbourne Cup, reduced it by
a quarter-second, and Evening
Peal equalled that time in the
1956 Cup.
• « * •
Jockey M. Schumacher and
Randwick trainer Fred Allsop
travelled by helicopter to the
latest Warwick Farm meeting,
landing on the course proper
50yds. from the jockeys’ room.
The trip occupied less than 10
minutes from Rushcutter Bay
Park, whereas patrons travel-
ling by motor-car took about
an hour or so for the same
journey. The two passengers
were delighted with the speedy
run, and an A.J.C. official fore-
cast that within months many
more will go by ’copter to the
Farm.
• • • •
Sixteen - year - old Brisbane
apprentice Gary Rashleigh
created a favorable impression
when winning two races on a
brief visit to Sydney ; he'd be
assured of plenty of riding if
his master moved south. The
lightweight has good hands,
rides a vigorous finish and
shows plenty of nous. He
handled Rosehill winner
Persian Story with ability and
skill in getting the Persian Book
three-year-old through on the
rails at the home-turn to secure
a winning position. Persian
Story was then switched out a
couple of horses from the rails
and scored in a tight finish. The
gelding was backed from 10’s
to s’s and landed some big
bets for the Jack Miller stable.
The previous day Rashleigh
(who has now ridden more
than 50 winners) had come to
Sydney for the Kembla
Apprentices’ Invitation event,
which he won on Raider’s
Gold, leading all the way. The
Apprentices’ Invitation was a
good thought by the Kembla
Club. Such events give a nice
touch to racing..
• • • •
“Bicky”: Noel McGrowdie
isn’t the only lander of Cups.
When Victorian jockey Ron
Hutchinson got Coppice home
in the Woodend Cup (Vic.)
recently it was his 50th Cup
success. He has ridden the
winners of four Williamstown
Cups, four Australian Cups,
three Moonee Valley Cups and
has Cup races to his credit in
Queensland, South Australia,
New South Wales and Western
Australia —but heV yet to
land a Caulfield or Melbourne
Cup, though he’s been placed
twice in the Flemington two-
miler (on Morse Code and
Pandie Sun).


H
V
it
Versatile, easy-to-use
BROWNIE FLASH II Camera
makes brilliant snapshots..day or night..
I
With a new Browne Flash II Camera in your
k hands you, too, can say "Got it!". Its high-quality
sKodet lens ensures sparkling, clear pictures; a
portrait lens permits close-ups at 3 feet.
Obtainable at all Kodak Dealers. Price £3/3/9
... Kodak FLASHOLDER
Flasholder and Brownie Flash // Camera make a
perfect partnership. The Flasholder is simply
attached to the camera, enabling you to take
pictures night or day. Complete with
fittings £3/5/9
5503
K
ODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.
Branches in all States.
FB2
Sports Dragnet
Before their match with Natal,
the Australians defeated a strong
South African XI at Pretoria (Nov.
15-19) by an innings and 30 runs.
The local side began its first innings
badly, being 5-58, but four batsmen,
all of whom made over 50, pulled
the innings round (to a respectable
335). Australia, too, began badly
(2-11), but with Harvey (173), Craig
(88) and Burge (111 not-out) in
particular getting runs, reached 8-
519. Then Davidson (5-43), Mackay
(3-29) and Benaud (2-49) cleaned-up
the S’Africans’ second innings for
154. The Australians thus won
outright their first four first-class
matches.
In Brisbane, Queensland got 10
Sheffield Shield points for an out-
right win over W.A. Features of the
game, Q’land opener Reynolds
following his 174 against N.S.W.
with 168 ; W.A. skipper Meule-
man’s almost lone-hand, last-ditch
117 out of 229 in the second
innings ; and impressive bowling
by the four main Northern trundlers,
Lindwall, Walmsley, Bratchford and
Fisher.
The Australian Rugby Union
Wallabies began very well the Welsh
part of their tour, defeating
Pontypool-Cross Keys 14-6. Five-
eighth Harvey collected 11 of the
points with his boot —excellent
kicking. The only try of the game,
7min. from the start, was scored by
Hying winger Donald after a neat
passing movement in the backs.
However, in their next game the
Wallabies didn’t keep the good work
going, and were soundly beaten
11-0 by Newport. Jit was the
tourists' third defeat....At Wigan
(Eng.), at Rugby League, England
thrashed France 44-15.
At Sydney Stadium (Nov. 18),
American negro Milo Savage com-
pletely outclassed Queensland
middleweight Clarrie Grogan, with
ref. Vic Patrick stopping the one-
sided battering in the ninth round.
In London (Nov. 19) Trinidad
welterweight Boswell St. Louis, a
likely opponent for a bout with
Empire champion George Barnes,
outpointed British welter titleholder
Peter Waterman. At Melbourne
Stadium on Friday night Victorian
v-elterweight Alf O’Sullivan and
Queensland aboriginal Phil Wallace
drew in a slogging 12-rourider. In
Brisbane Sydney featherweight
Frank Bennett stopped George
Flemming, of Queensland, in the
seventh round.
* * *
Consistent Barry Warren
won the Australian amateur
golf championship by beating
Goulburn youngster Bruce
Devlin three and one at the
Commonwealth Club course,
Melbourne. Warren won the
game over the last nine holes
after being a hole down at the
start of the last 18. In 1955
Warren was runner-up to
Queenslander Jack Rayner
when the championship was
decided at Brisbane.
* * *
Here are one or two note-
worthy efforts in district-
cricket on Saturday, Nov. 16 —•
in Adelaide, for his old team,
West Torrens, in his first game
back in Australia, Bruce
Dooland’s 7-26 off 15.1 overs;
in Melbourne, Collingwood
skipper and former Essendon
footballer and State cricketer
Harry Lambert’s 151 not-out,
batting right through, out of
9-196 (next-highest score, 10)
against State bowler John
Edwards and former Test-
bowler Jack (“Sir Laurence
Olivier”) Hill; in Sydney,
rejected N.S.W. Colts skipper
John King’s 146 not-out
(carried on last Saturday to
169 not-out) for North Sydney ;
also in Adelaide, two long
partnerships—Glenelg’s start,,
in its 3-315, of 198 (Mortimer
155 not-out, State opener
Stevens 95 run-out), and, for
Adelaide, at stumps 2-245, 201
in an unfinished third-wicket
stand by State batsman Pinch
117 not-out and opener Hill
100 not-out.
* * *
“Bo”: The doubles-final of
the N.S.W. tennis-titles was an
affair mostly of big serves, net-
“camping” and stabbing
volleys, with the Rose-Ander-
son combination clearly
superior to Cooper-Fraser in
all departments. In addition
to full power, Anderson’s ser-
vice carried uncanny accuracy,
one of the rare occasions on
which he was slightly off-beam
being when he felled his
partner with a terrific crack
behind the ear. Rose was
deadly on the net; and his
swinging-away southpaw de-
livery from the left court
carried a sting second only to
Anderson’s. On this game,
despite subsequent changes in
pairings, Rose-Anderson should
be the reps in the Cup doubles.


A Christmas-gift to
Fascinate —
“THE LETTERS OF
RACHEL HENNING”
A "Bulletin" Bestseller
This charming and absorbing real-life story of
Australia 100 years ago, told in sparkling, gossipy prose
by Rachel Henning herself, has become a classic of
Australian biography, and is one of the most talked-about
books published in recent years.
“The Letters of Rachel Henning” read like a
romantic novel. If you have never read them there is
real delight in store for you. If you have read them you
will realise what a charming present they will make for
a friend.
Not the smallest attraction of the book are the
40 exquisite pen-drawings by Norman Lindsay.
Copies of "The Letters of Rachel Kenning" will be
sent, post-free, to any address in Australia upon
receipt of 7s. 6d. (seven shillings and sixpence) by
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney,
and branch offices in Melbourne, Brisbane and Per'h.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy either a new or used copy
of The Specialist, by Chic Sale.
—6626.
To buy copy of “The Animals
Noah Forgot,” by A. B. Paterson.
—6627.
Words of poem “The Jolly Testa-
tor Who Makes His Own Will,” pub-
lished many years ago in The
Bulletin. — 6628.
To buy The Condition of Van
Diemen’s Land, by Dixon ; London
Street Games, by Norman Douglas ;
Below and On Top (1889) and In
the Roaring ’Fifties (1906), by
Edward Dyson ; Views in N.S.W.
and Van Diemen’s Land (1830) and
Views in Australia (circa 1826), by
A. Earle ; and any titles by Arthur
Upfield.—6629.
Information Sought
(1) Evolution of the horse ? (2) Its
history briefly ?
(1) According to The Science of
Life, by H. G. and G. P. Wells and
Julian Huxley, the horse is des-
cended from a small four-toed
mammal (Eohippus) of the Lower
Eocene period (the period in which
modem birds also developed).
After Eohippus come Orohippus and
Epihippus, then Mesohippus, the first'
horse with three toes. The reduc-
tion of the hoof, enlargement and
development of the teeth, and
general increase in size are the most
important movements in each of the
nine stages down to the 10th in the
line, Equus, the modem horse. The
first ancestors of the horse were no
larger than a small Shetland-pony
or a large dog. (See also Aborigi-
nalities par. by “Kelms” in this
issue.) (2) Far too big a subject
to cover fully here. One or
two points from Everyman’s
Encyclopedia : The British or Celtic
ponies (including Shetlands) existed
in Britain in Caesar’s time. The large
horse was probably unknown in
Britain until the Norman invasion.
From the Andalusian and Flemish
horses then introduced the war-
horses ridden by knights in armor
were evolved. The horse was pro-
bably first bred and used mainly for
war. Horse-racing is- recorded at the
Grecian Olympiads, and in Britain
it has existed from the time of
Henry 11. The most distinguished
non-British horse is the Arab,
records of which go back to the
sixth century a.d.
Details of a housing competition
which, l understand, is being coijr
ducted by Taubmans ?
Taubmans Industries, Ltd., has
recently announced details of an
open competition, with a prize of
£2OOO, for the design and specifica-
tions of a house that can be built
at a price within the range of the
average young married couple (i.e.,
a house that can be built and sold
for not more than £2400, exclusive
of land. The aim of the competition
is to find a solution to the high cost
of providing adequate living condi-
tions for the average Australian
family. Anyone is eligible to com-
pete except members of the staff of
Taubmans Industries, Ltd., and
associate companies, and the staff of
the company’s advertising agents.
Salient features in selecting the win-
ning entry will be economy in con-
struction, liveability, and appearance.
At the discretion of Taubmans a
prototype of the winning design, or,
alternatively, of any other selected
design having special local suitability,
will be erected in Brisbane, Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth. The
designer may be required to super-
vise the construction of the house,
and, if so, appropriate arrangements
will be made between the designer
and Taubmans. The house, when
completed, will be decorated and
furnished throughout and placed on
exhibition to the public in each
State. A panel of judges consisting
of the managing-director of Taub-
rnans, one or more eminent archi-
tects, one or more prominent
members of the building industry, a
principal of the National Art
School and a leading feminine
authority on home-making is to be
appointed, and the decision of the
judges, which will be final and bind-
ing, will be publicly announced
through the press on April 30, 1958.
Entries, which should be accom-
panied by the form provided, should
reach Taubmans Industries, Ltd., 40
Miller Street, North Sydney
(N.S.W.), not later than 4 p.m. on
March 31, 1958. Entry-forms,
obtainable from Taubmans, will be
acknowledged on receipt.
* * * *
Brief account of the bank-nation-
alisation business when Chifley was
Prime Minister ?
In Aug., 1947, the High Court of
Australia declared invalid Section
48 of the 1945 Banking Act, where-
upon Prime Minister Chifley decided
on a policy of bank-nationalisation
(part of the plan to introduce a
large measure of socialisation, as
decreed by the 1945 triennial con-
ference of the Labor party). Chifley’s
1947 Banking Act was quickly
challenged by the trading-banks and
three State Governments (Victoria,
S.A. and W.A.). After a long hear-
ing, in which Dr. Evatt, then
Attorney-General, appeared for the
Federal Government, the Full High
Court on Aug. 11, 1948, ruled invalid
many sections of the Act, insofar as
they offended against Section 92 of
the Commonwealth Constitution.
Among other rulings, all six judges
found that the sections of the Act
authorising the Commonwealth Bank
to take over management of the
Australian private banks by dis-
placing existing directors with its
own nominees were invalid ; and five
judges held that the Act’s provisions
for the compulsory acquisition of the
assets of the private banks were
invalid. In its leading-article (B.
18/8/’4B) The Bulletin said:
“Socialism and that ‘pushing-around’
of the people which has become a
feature of Chifleyism took a heavy
and thoroughly deserved knock in
the High Court’s decision on the
1947 Bank Act.” The Government’s
design, thus thwarted, The Bulletin
continued, was clearly not limited to
‘‘control” of banking, but was “a
first step in socialisation of every-
thing.” Immediately after the High
Court’s decision Chifley said the
case would be taken to the Privy
Council, which, on Nov. 11, 1948,
gave leave for the appeal to be heard.
On July 26, 1949, the Privy Council
declared the Act invalid, its reasons
not being announced till Oct. 26. In
the main, they were that Section 46
of the Act contravened Section 92 of
the Constitution, and that, as the
High Court had not issued any
certificate authorising the appeal
(solely because the Federal Govern-
ment had not approached it to do
sc), the appeal had, in any case, no
locus standi.
* * * *
Where to obtain or how to make
phosphorite-paint—l wish to paint a
square and a post with it ?
This paint is not obtainable in
leading Sydney stores, and it will be
impossible for you to make it your-
self, as it calls for a mixture of
chemicals which are not supplied to
the public ; the process anyway is
beyond the home worker. Suggest
you mark the places with strips of
Scotch-tape such as are used on
motor-cars, or hang up a hurricane-
lantern.
* * * *
How to prevent green alga: form-
ing in a fishpond and killing the
fish ?
Opinions differ as to the wisdom
of removing all the algae: some of
it forms food for the fish. An expert
consulted advised removing it only
if it became too thick, using any
means of taking it out of the water
—by hand, rake, etc. Chemicals
disturb the balance of life in the
water and interfere with its aeration..
Occasionally part of the water can
be removed, and replaced by fresh
clean water from an uncontaminated
source.
* * * *
What were the terms of reparation
imposed on the Japanese after
World War II ?
By the terms of the Japanese
peace-treaty (signed by 49 nations,
including Australia, on Sept. 8,
1951, at San Francisco, and which
officially came into force on Apl. 28,
1952), Japan was to pay reparations
to the Allied Powers for damage
and suffering caused by it during the
war ; but the treaty recognised that
Ihe resources of Japan were then
insufficient to allow it to pay for all
such damage and suffering and at the
same time meet its other obliga-
tions. It was therefore decided that
Japan should enter into negotiations
with Allied Powers so desiring,
whose territories were occupied by
Japanese forces, with a view to its
assisting to compensate those
countries for the cost o'f repairing
damage done, by making available
the services of the Japanese people
in production, salvaging and other
work. With certain stated excep-
tions, each Allied Power has the
light to seize, retain, liquidate or
otherwise dispose of all property,
rights and interests of (a) Japan and
of Japanese nationals ; (£>) persons
acting for or on behalf of Japan or
Japanese nationals ; (c) entities
owned or controlled by Japan or
Japanese nationals —provided the
property, etc., mentioned was in that
Power’s jurisdiction on the coming
into force of the treaty. Provision
is also made in the treaty for
Rrisoners-of-war who suffered undue
ardship at the hands of the
Japanese to be indemnified.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —Is Divorce.
TO JOHN CAMPBELL late of 106
Church Street Parramatta in the State
of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that NORMA HAZEL CAMPBELL has
tiled a Petition for Divorce No. 3262 of
19,17 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and is asking for the exer-
cise of the Court’s discretion under S.
19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1809 If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 23rd of January 1958
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. K.
BRUDENELL-WOODS & CO., Soli-
citors, of 6a Penfold Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOSEPH THOMAS O’DONNELL
late of Wyan Creek via Rappville in the
State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that LORNA JOAN
O'DONNELL has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2417 of 1957 on. the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three (3) years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 23rd day of January 1958
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. K.
BRUDENELL-WOODS & CO., Solicitors,
of 6\ Penfold Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS WILLIAM HAMNETT late
of Katoomba in the State of New South
Wales— TAKE NOTICE that MONA
EILEEN HAMNETT has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 909 of 1957 on
the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three (3) years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 23rd day of January
1958 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from MESSRS. K.
BRUDENELL-WOODS & CO., Solicitors,
J* 6a Penfold Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE—-MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1818.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
SI'RUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLaSS. MALCOLM 0. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
ISrtuichea in all States Agencies in all Country Centre*
weeks the raider laid-up, under-
going an extensive overhaul.
Then, leaving Kerguelen on
March 25, both ships worked
northwards, Adjutant acting as
a scout for Pinguin. For a
month they scoured the Indian
Ocean without success, before
the 6800-ton Empire Light, with
iron ore from Madras to
Durban, was captured and
sunk. Three days later the
raider chased the freighter Clan
Buchanan for five hours before
opening fire at 5000yds., sink-
mg her without casualties.
Next, Adjutant returned to
the Indian Ocean rendezvous,
while Pinguin headed for the
approaches to the Persian Gulf,
On May 7 Pinguin attacked the
tanker British Emperor, which
persisted in transmitting dis-
tress-messages even as she sank
in flames. It was these distress-
messages that brought H.M.S.
Cornwall post-haste to the'
scene.
Cornwall sighted Pinguin,
now masquerading as the
Wdhelmsen freighter Tamer-
lane, on the morning of
May 8. Kruder tried to
confuse the cruiser captain
by radioing raider-warnings,
as the real Tamerlane would
have done if approached
by an unidentified warship.
Captain Manwaring was not
convinced. Cornwall shadowed
the pseudo-Norwegian all day;
closing for positive identifica-
tion at 1715 hours,
Realising that he would have
to fight, Kruder held his fire
until the cruiser was well within
range: then, as he discarded
the Norwegian disguise, he
opened-up with a full broadside
of 5.9’5. Cornwall was hit, but
soon had the raider’s range.
Pinguin blew-up and sank ;
Kruder went down with his
ship ; only 22 British prisoners
and 60 Germans survived,
On a cruise that had lasted
320 days the raider had
accounted for 28 ships totalling
136,551 tons. Her minefields
had helped to disrupt Aus-
tralian coastal shipping for the
duration of the war.
Brief Answers
G.F.-T.: At the Oct. 28, 1916,
conscription referendum, there were
affirmative majorities in three States
(Vic., W.A. and Tas.), and the total
number of affirmative votes was
1,087,557 ; negative, 1,160,033. At
ffie Dec. 20, 1917, conscription
teferendum, there were negative
majorities in four States (N.S.W.,
Vic., Q. and S.A.), and total negative
votes were 1,181,747 ; affirmative,
1,015,159 Eliza Jane: Insufficient
detail given for the place con-
cerned to be identified..*..
H.G.W.H.: In his first professional
game Hoad defeated Sedgman 6-3,
6- 6-4 (July 14 this year), and in
his second game crushed Segura 6-1,
7- 6-2 (July 17). In his third game
(July 18) he was defeated by Rose-
wall, 3-6, 7-9, 6-4, 3-6, the first of
a long succession of defeats....
E.F.: (1) Waverley cemetery
(Sydney) is managed by Waverley
Municipal Council, which acquired
the area under the provisions of
Ordnance 68 of the N.S.W. Local
Government Act, 1919. (2) The
Under-Secretary of the N.S.W.
Department of Lands, to whom your
Question was referred, suggests appli-
cation be made to N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Local Government
C.W.J. (Assam, India): See Plain
English article “Free Enterprise and
A.N.A.” and Business, Robbery
item “A.N.A. Postmortem,” both in
P. 16/10/’57 ; also Business,
Robbery item “A.N.A. and Ansett”
(B. 13/11/’57) K.R.: Books on
England's 1954-55 cricket-tour of
Australia include A. E. R. Gilligan’s
The Urn Returns, John Arlott’s
Australian Test Journal, The Fight
jor the Ashes 1954-55, by A. G.
Moyes, The Long Hop. by Margaret
Hughes, and Australia 55, by Alan
Ross... .8.L.: Last June an Ansett
airliner flew from Melbourne to
Froserpine (N.Q.), and return, in the
one day, thus making civil-aviation
history. The flight inaugurated the
company’s Melbourne - Proserpine
service ; Ansett recently built an air-
terminal at Proserpine costing
£38,000... .J.M.: (J) In 1824 trouble
with the blacks began around
Bathurst (N.S.W.), the main abo-
riginal leader being Windradyne, or
Saturday, for whose capture a
reward of 500 acres of land was
offered. Will Lawson, in his
Bathurst the Golden 1815-1938,
records that Saturday, a very power-
ful black, was taken, six men being
needed to secure him ; “he broke
a musket into pieces while hand-
cuffs were being put on him.” (2) He
survived the martial-law period in the
district (Aug.-Dee., 1824), and was
afterwards killed in a duel by one
of his own countrymen. (3) In the
martial-law period the 40th (2nd
Somerset) Regiment was sent as rein-
forcements to Lt.-Col. James T.
Morisset’s 3rd (Buffs-East Kent),
which was stationed at Bathurst
1824-27. (4) Bathurst is 145 miles
west of Sydney, and is 2155 ft. above
sea-level. (5) Founded in 1815, pro-
claimed a town in 1852 and a city in
1885 R.W.: “Jack the Ripper”
murdered several women in London
in the 1880’s. He was never caught
and it was never established who he
was, though several persons actually
claimed to be ■fack the Ripper
8.M.: (1) The Angry Young Men
oi English letters include play-
wright John Osborne, the leader of
the theatre’s A.Y.M. ; Kingsley
Amis, spokesman for the “non-U”
novelists ; and Colin Wilson, essayist
and critic. (2) They claim to have
dedicated themselves to “revising
rather roughly' the English intellect
and English society”... .C.H.: (1)
Evelyn and Alec Waugh are the
sons of Arthur Waugh, in his time
well known in the literary world.
Their mother’s maiden name (as
given in Who’s Who ) was Catherine
Raban. (2) Not known. (3) Angus
Wilson was bom on Aug. 11, 1913,
and educated at Merton College
(Oxford). He was employed at the
British Foreign,Office (1942-46) and
at the British Museum (1949-55).
His novels include The Wrong Set
(1949), Such Darling Dodos (1950),
Hemlock and After (1952) and For
Whom the Cloche Tolls (1953) ; also
a play, “The Mulberry Bush” (1956).
(4) Too early yet for a final judg-
ment ; but it can be described as a
“serious contribution to literature.”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
A.E.D.: We had no hesitation
about “Hesitation”... .J.S.: “I have
heard that you have given a few
Australian poets a kick-off.” That’s
a somewhat ambiguous way of put-
ting it.... W.M.8.: “What? Will the
wattle blow when I am gone?” We’ll
try to stop that at least... .R.T.P.:
Close CJ.: “Please find enclosed
and burn with mercy.” Done,
but with reluctance... .G.C.: “I
don’t know quite what is your atti-
tude in relation to unsolicited con-
tributions.” Invariably sympathetic
and optimistic. Bewaire, though, of
flying too high C.P.: Spare US
your Sputnik serial... .A.S.: We’ll
have to let somebody shoot it off, so
here you go: —
....W.H.: It has feeling but not
rnLlcb moie.... R.W.. Pardonable if
V ou are ver y young... .M.S. : None
up. .. .D.R.1. : A touch of genuine
balladry in “The Wanderer.”
SPUTNIK
Tliou blind and fearful people
Why do you cringe
When man has gone beyond
The boundaries of this earth
And joined the forces
Of another star?
Why do you shiver
And think of "me”?
When man has a mind
To overcome
The limits of
Our cast-iron sphere,
Opening windows
On a thousand unlit ways.
Thou selfish, careworn babblers,
Halt thy chatter,
Come out of thy caves.
And try to understand.
A man has made a stumbling step
To know our universe.
Give him applause and true respect
For he’s way beyond your orbit
And the crawling mass called man.
R.J.G.: Come in and roar, then: —
So you took a little drive and you
thought you saw the Mallee,
But to men who live and work there,
your remarks are “scarlet” silly.
To put the matter mildly, Mr. “Special
‘Sun’ Reporter,”
Your remarks and cute deductions are
slightly out of order.
Those gaping . cracks that split the
ground—for them I sadly weep!
We Fad one in the ’4O drought that
swaffowed fifty sheep.
That of course ls . J ust a tale that n 0
, , 0119 , n ®. ed believe,
And ) l ! st f e sa “ e reception, did your
tdbs ot claCvS receive.
The picture, of course, is not rosy, the
p . yedl c ' (, rtainly lean,
But ™ haven t seen much of the
knockers whlle the P lalns of the
Mallee were S reen -
For * and more you’ve been
creduiour' itv"" 8
, . 57 y V . . , .
And ™ W ’ the *** 9,^n of trouble ’
you come with your mercenary
PhJ.
We can still remember the ’forties,
when you took the dying sheep,
To get a better photo, you bundled them
& into a j, eap
This gross exaggeration and verbosity,
and * lick
Makes a Mallee-dweller laugh, when
it doesn > t make him 6 sick ,


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FORTY RED YEARS
'T'HREE comments on the
evolution of the Soviet
since the “October” revolution
of 1917, when the Bolsheviks
overthrew Kerensky’s short-
lived Government:
“Manchester Guardian”:
“Forty years after the outbreak
of our own [Britain’s] civil war
we were on the verge of making
sure that arbitrary executive
control of Church or State
would not be reimposed, and
of conforming in their dis-
persed power the classes which
the revolution had benefited
most.
“Forty years after the fall of
the Bastille the French were
also about to attempt the same
thing in the ‘glorious days’ that
brought in Louis Philippe,
though we may hold that in
France, where it marked the
climax rather than the start of
the nation’s rise to power, the
revolution has never fully
worked itself out.
“In both countries the great
causes for which men had
killed or died had, after 40
years, begun to flag in their
power over men’s minds, just
as they had become the
accepted tenets of new genera-
tions.
“What of Russia? For all
that her revolutionaries have
held seemingly unbroken
power, she, too, has not escaped
time’s damping of ideological
fire or the urge, after 40 harsh
years, to settle down and enjoy
the fruits of battle. The revo-
lution is in every sense estab-
lished. Of those who made it,
all but a handful are gone.
Their children are busy at the
levers of industry and State.
The revolutionary creed is
unchallenged and everyone
bends it to his own needs. The
empire is great—and the rulers
seem more concerned to pre-
serve it by firmness within and
diplomatic diversion without
than they are to widen immedi-
ately the area marked in Red
on the spiritual map.”
♦ • • •
The same: “The Communist
parties and their leaders go on
talking as if their aim was still
to win men’s minds every-
where ; they do this partly out
of habit, partly because they
must justify themselves to
themselves. But their acts
show that, when the crisis
comes, they are concerned to
keep themselves in place.
“Compare, again, the giant
struggles among the Soviet
leaders in the ’twenties with
the game of musical-chairs
which Mr. Khrushchev has
been playing against the rest
of the ‘collective leadership.’
—Milan “Candido”
“LOOK, COMRADE, PIE IN THE SKY.”
Though the recent affrays are
about something besides the
question of who shall sit in
the Kremlin and who in Ust-
Kamenogorsk, they have much
less to do with doctrine than
with the struggle between this
well-established faction and
that.
“There is no doubt which
we should prefer. Practical
tyrants generally do the world
less harm than avenging angels;
they are also nearer to decay.”
* * ♦
"New York Times”: “We
have no need to deny the
achievement of 40 years of
Soviet power. Backward,
peasant Russia has been made
into the second-strongest indus-
trial nation on earth. Educa-
tion, especially education in
science and technology, has
been brought to millions. Great
new cities and giant new
factories have been built.
“But these achievements are
not unique, and similar things
have been done elsewhere
without anything like the
enormous cost that the Soviet
people have had to pay for
such accomplishments. Indus-
trialisation in countries like
Canada and Australia has been
achieved without secret-police
terror and slave-labor camps.
Agriculture has been mechan-
ised in many lands without the
forced collectivisation and the
great toll in property and lives
that collectivisation required.
Science has flourished in our
country—let us remember that
the Salk-vaccine has contri-
buted much more to human
happiness than can any number
of space-satellites—without the
forced conformity that is the
hallmark of Soviet society.
“Everywhere in Western
Europe and in this country
[U.S.A.] the standard of living
of the ordinary worker has
risen remarkably these past
four decades, while in the
Soviet Union the contrast
between a highly developed
heavy-industry and a low living-
standard is a central contradic-
tion.
“If the history of the past
40 years teaches us that the
Soviet model is one way by
which human societies can
break the shackles of back-
wardness and harness modern
techniques of science and
industry, then that same history
tells us that there are other
ways by which other nations
have successfully accomplisned
the task without anything like
the huge cost, spiritually <md
materially, that the Soviet
people have had to pay.”
* * *
George Soloveytchik in Lon-
don “Contemporary Review”:
“It must be acknowledged as a
truly great achievement that
in these 40 years the Soviets
have managed to turn [Russia]
into one of the strongest coun-
tries in the world—stronger in
many respects than she has ever
been before. And that, on the
very eve of their jubilfee, the
Soviets should have been able to
launch their satellite, thus prov-
ing to the world that, in this
respect a least, they have the
necessary technical know-how
which is equal to, or even sur-
passes, that of the U.S.A. But
all this has been performed
aiong lines wholly different
from those anticipated either
by the early Bolsheviks them-
selves or by their opponents.
“Not even under Ivan the
Terrible (whom, incidentally,
Soviet historians in Stalin’s day
had to represent as ‘a great
social reformer’) has Russia
ever known anything approach-
ing the terrorist machine estab-
lished by the Bolsheviks from
the very inception of the regime
and used without respite and
with diabolical thoroughness to
the present day. If there is a
measure of truth in the old
adage that the Tsarist regime
was an autocracy tempered by
assassination, from 1917 on-
wards Soviet Russia has been an
autocracy not tempered by
assassination but largely
based on it. In the course
of these 40 years the revolu-
tion has devoured not only
all its fathers, with a few
rather unimportant excep-
tions, but also the majority of
its most prominent children.
Also, both the personnel and


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
FOR VERY PARTICULAR PEOPLE
Vi\
LUXURY TRAHS-ATLANTIC AIR SERVICES
ft
V
i
Si
r/7*
1/
&
Finest ever across the Atlantic, the
8.0.A.C. “Monarch” service now
offers more elegance, more luxury
and far greater spaciousness than
ever before—to a restricted passenger
list of 40 well-cared-for people.
Replanned to allow every passenger
the comfort of a fully-reclining de-
Luxe sleeper chair, the super luxury
double-deck “Monarch” Stratocruiser
provides plenty of room to move
around. And the cocktail lounge on
the lower deck is a joy discerning
travellers appreciate. You may re-
tire to a curtained sleeping berth
(available at nominal extra charge)
and round off with breakfast in bed—
the finest j&urney you ever had.
The 8.0.A.C. “Monarch” service flies
over-night every night direct between
London and ’New York and between
New York and London. Magnificent
food and wines, courteous personal
attention from a cabin crew of four.
And there’s no surcharge for this, the
most sumptuous Trans-Atlantic travel
ever.
You can book from Australia. See
your 8.0.A.C. Travel Agent. He’ll
help you plan your whole itinerary to
save you time and money.
Information and bookings from all leading Travel Agents and
Qantas Empire Airzvays Ltd. (8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia).
» £
at
World leader in air travel
BOM
takes good cars of you
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
ABO/AU
the methods of government
have undergone many changes
and adjustments. Yet it is
undeniable that in certain
fundamentals the system has
remained the same from the
start and that the aims of the
Communist revolution have
never changed.
“Despite the billions spent
on propaganda, the enthusiastic
assistance of sincere, if mis-
guided, believers in Com-
munism, or the multifarious
services of hirelings who con-
stitute a Bolshevik fifth-column
operating on an international
scale, the world has steadfastly
refused to embrace Com-
munism. Wherever the Com-
munists have seized power it
has been through armed inter-
vention, not through the
popular vote. Thus the dream
of world revolution has proved
a delusion —at least until the
present phase of the post-war
crisis the outcome of which no
one can foretell.”
The same: “Once upon a
time pacifists and inter-
nationalists, the Soviets are now
recognised as the greatest
military force in the world and
as the most pernicious sponsors
of local nationalism, which they
use and control with consum-
mate adroitness. The present
tension in the Near and Middle
East is a typical illustration of
this, but by no means the only
one.”
The same: “While the Bol-
sheviks have failed to give the
people of Russia freedom, a
high standard of living, and a
'classless society’—the scale on
which they have ranks and
titles, privileges, uniforms, and
decorations now, is quite ridi-
culous they have starved
themselves into military power


and technical progress. It may
well be asked whether a nation
as virile, as talented and
dramatic would not have
moved forward under any
regime. Surely the Russians
would have had to pay a much
smaller price in personal free-
dom, sacrifice of material well-
being, and loss of all-round
happiness, if they had been
allowed to develop under a
democratic instead of a dicta-
torial system. In every way
today the Soviets stand for the
very opposite of what they set
out to achieve, and the revolu-
tionaries of 40 years ago have
produced the most reactionary
regime of our age.”
Nuclear Weapons
Discussing the prospects of
an increase in membership of
the world’s most exclusive club,
Klaus Knorr, writing in the
U.S. quarterly “Foreign
Affairs,” suggests that France
could begin production of
atomic weapons at any time,
and that other countries which
could begin production within
five to seven years without
going outside their resources
include Canada, Sweden, Bel-
gium, Eastern Germany,
Czechoslovakia, Communist
China, Japan, India,, Switzer-
land, Italy and West Germany
(although the 1954 Paris Agree-
ments debar the latter country
from manufacturing nuclear
weapons).
Knorr is here referring to
the “simple” Hiroshima-type
atomic bomb, and adds that
only France, Western Germany,
Japan, China and possibly
India are likely to have the
capacity for “a substantial and
diversified weapons system,
including thermonuclear
bombs, and the correspondingly
large and complex apparatus
needed to deliver these bombs
on their targets.”
Weighing-up the pros and
cons of membership of the
nuclear club, Knorr notes that
“the entrance-fees are high and
so are the liabilities of mem-
bership” :
“In most cases, the chief in-
hibiting factors will be four.
First, the experience of the
‘haves’ shows emphatically
that anything but a minor
atomic arms-programme will
be a strain on the national
economy and especially on
scarce scientific and technical
resources; and since it will
work to the detriment of con-
sumption and investment, Gov-
ernments will be confronted
with awkward economic and
political choices.
“Second, there is a certain
degree of public revulsion,
partly moral, against the idea
of developing or using nuclear
weapons. The sentiment varies
from country to country; it is
particularly sharp at present in
Western Germany, Japan and
India.
“Third, there is widespread
apprehension in many countries
that by developing a nuclear
capacity a nation makes itself
a more likely target for nuclear
attack.
“Fourth, some potential
aspirants to the nuclear club
may pause before incurring
the ill-will of other countries.
Western Germany, for in-
—New York “Herald Tribune”
HOME TO ROOST
stance, might fear that the
hostile Soviet reaction would
lessen still further the chances
for German reunification.
Recent events in Hungary and
Poland indicate that Moscow
will have to reject the idea of
independent atomic arms-pro-
grammes in any of the satel-
lites. Before Communist China
went in for a nuclear-arms
programme she would weigh
its possible effects on public
opinion in the neutralist coun-
tries of Asia.
“On the other hand, there
are powerful considerations
working in the opposite direc-
tion. One is the economy argu-
ment. Though the experience
of the United States has been
to the contrary, there is still a
general assumption that a shift
from conventional to atomic
defence will yield financial
economies. Wbat is politically
even more appealing is the hope
that it will mean savings in
military manpower and hence
a cut in the length of conscrip-
tion, or even the end of con-
scription. The British White
Paper made a great deal of this
argument.
“Second, and more im-
portant, are considerations of
international prestige. Cer-
tain countries —notably those
which formerly ranked as
Great Powers —may seek to
join the nuclear ‘haves,’ as a
means of recovering part of the
status lost since the last war.
At present, this motivation is
especially strong in France.
“Third, and probably most
important of all, is the feeling
that unless a nation has its own
atomic capacity it is more
open than it would be other-
wise to acts of aggression or to
nuclear blackmail on the part
of the ‘haves.’ This anxiety has
different grounds in different
countries. Communist China
is obviously concerned by the
American deployment of
nuclear arms in the Far East,
including ‘Matadors’ on For-
mosa. Neutral Sweden seems
determined to bolster her
defences against a Soviet
attack by acquiring some
nuclear weapons capable of
threatening retaliation against
Leningrad. It would be sur-
prising if Switzerland did not
also come to feel a similar need
for safeguarding her armed
neutrality. Canada might be-
come uneasy if she concluded
that nuclear weapons from the
United States might not be
available to her instantaneously
in the event of a Soviet attack.
“The British White Paper
affirms Britain’s dependence on
collective defence, yet it states
that ‘the only existing safe-
guard against major aggression
is the power to threaten retali-
ation with nuclear weapons’
and that although Britain can
make only a modest contribu-
tion in comparison with the
United States ‘she must possess
an appreciable element of
nuclear deterrent power of her
own.’
“The motivation behind the
British decision is doubtless
complex. But a careful scrutiny
of British statements, both
official and unofficial, reveals
two strands of thought which
are also encountered in other
parts of Western Europe. One
is the desire to gain a modicum
of freedom from the existing
military dependence on the
United States and thus to
broaden British policy choices
whenever the foreign-policy
interests of the two allies are in
conflict.
“The other involves a doubt
so delicate that it is seldom
given forthright expression.
Would the United States, asks
the sceptic, knowing that in the
event of full-fledged war with
the Soviet Union it would
suffer casualties by the tens of
millions and a paralysing blow
to its economy, would it in fact
be willing to unleash the
Strategic Air Command for the
protection of all or any part of
Western Europe?
“Some Western Europeah
observers believe that no
country will ever use nuclear
striking power for the protec-
tion of another country, no
matter how closely allied, if
indeed it will even dare to do
so for its own protection, and
hence that possession of a
nuclear deterrent is indispen-
sable to the security of any
country.”
"That Island! ”
Salvador de Madariaga
(in London “Time and
Tide”) on Britain’s two chief
assets (“her monarchy and her


phlegm”) and chief liability
(“her insular limitation”):
“The grace and youth of her
Queen have reconquered the
heart of her one-time American
colonies. The Royal lady is
proving herself one of the chief
trumps in England’s pack of
cards. The coronation film
was a world-wide triumph. Her
visit to Paris was worth ten
successful embassies. Her visit
to Washington and New York
has restored an amity much
battered by power politics.
“England will always be
able to conquer republican cities
while she .remains under a
Crown. All republican peoples
keep in their hearts nostalgia
for the splendors of monarchy
(this is at bottom the secret of
the popular success of film-
stars, silver-gilt queens and
kings for the people). Further
on this road we find a deeper
meaning to the asset which
Royalty means for Britain: its
roots are in the illogical, all-
round, not merely intellectual
understanding of life which is
typical of the Briton.
“Next to the Queen, Eng-
land’s chief asset is the phlegm
of her sons. The Englishman’s
impassive way of seeing things
come, even when dangerous,
especially when dangerous,
accounts for a good half of
England’s success in war and
peace. It enables her to think
out an answer adequate to the
events. This month saw her
cousins, the Americans, losing
their heads apropos of some
statistics and showering orders
on the New York Stock
Exchange which might have
precipitated a world crisis of
disastrous dimensions. Events
which make an American’s
heart sick hardly raise an
Englishman’s eyebrow. The
world was in safer hands when
London ruled its finances ; and
it is in the interest of the world
that much of it remains within
the area of the pound. We are
already too dependent on a
public opinion that sends
prices down whenever President
Eisenhower’s thermometer goes
up.
“These admirable qualities
of the English are apt, unfortu-
nately, to be deformed and
deflected whenever they have to
apply on a world scale, indeed
whenever they have to travel
beyond the world of English
blood. That Island, that
Island! How hard it is for
some Britons to shake off its
limitations. We are all, in
varying degrees, nationalistic;
but who goes as far as the
English in dividing the world
between ‘us’ and ‘foreigners’?
—London “Daily Mail”
“ALL MINE!”
The Channel isolates many an
English mind as well as Britain,
and makes it err in odd ways at
odd moments.
“That original and powerful
soldier, Lord Montgomery
a man who can think, mind
you, by no means a headless
brasshat—has discovered that
the Channel Tunnel is a wild-
cat scheme. He does not want
England to lose the advantages
of being an Island, advantages
he had just described as con-
sisting mainly in her liability
to be starved out of existence
by any power with a good fleet
of submarines.”
"A Crisis in
Confidence"
Describing American reac-
tion to Soviet scientific
achievements as indicating a
“crisis in confidence” rather
than a in technology,”
London “Daily Telegraph”
comments that the appoint-
ment of Dr. James Killian as
President Eisenhower’s special
assistant for science and tech-
nology is “not a very exciting
answer” to Sputniks I and II:
“Dr. Killian is ‘to be clothed
with all the authority that the
Secretary of Defence himself
possesses, so that no adminis-
trative or inter-Service block
can occur.’ Why? It is well
known that ever since the war
all three [U.S.] Services have
shown their fighting qualities as
much against each other as
against the enemy. Duplication
of effort, personal rivalries,
overlapping of functions —all
have combined to prevent a
clear, direct defence policy.
“It was, however, precisely
to sort out these illogicalities
that President Truman
combined the Chiefs of Staff
and created the post of
Secretary of Defence. If, as
now seems clear, successive
Secretaries of Defence have
failed to clear up the muddle
why in Sputnik’s name should
clothing Dr. Killian in the
Defence Secretary’s authority
suddenly do the trick?
“The only map who can cut
through Service vested interests
and galvanise the vast Pentagon
bureaucracy is the President
himself. Only he today can
hope to carry through a really
dynamic crash-programme in
the field of missile develop-
ment. Why did not he
announce that henceforth he
intended to supervise this giant
programme himself? This
surely would have caught the
spirit of the hour.
“The answer, unfortunately,
is all too plain. Increasingly
the President refuses to meet
problems head on. It is always
the same. Some new official is
called in to solve the problem
for him or a new committee
is set up to advise on the solu-
tion. The President voices the
good intentions and their
implementation is then handed
over to someone* else.
“The real answer to Sputnik
is Ike. His leadership is the
secret weapon that the West so
urgently needs. We cannot
afford to give up hope that one
day he will succeed in getting
off the ground and illuminating
the way ahead.”
Various Voices
Cyril Osborne (Conservative
M.P.): “The real tragedy of
our [in Great Britain] economic
situation is that no one really
believes the problem exists.
Wages were never so high, jobs
never so plentiful. Profits are
f,, , A
mostly at record levels and
have been made too easily.
The wage-earners’ pockets are
bulging with money and the
shops are choked with goods,
How can the ordinary people
be blamed for disbelieving a
crisis exists? The fundamental
problem in all modern free
democracies is this. Can we
get self-discipline in economic
matters equal to the discipline
imposed by Russia? If not we
shall not survive.”
*- * *
Dr. Roger Pilkington:
“Some people seem to resent
foreigners spending their holi-
days in Beautiful Britain in
order to .use the National
Health Service, but personally
I think it is a good idea. It
gives us the chance to show
the world what we can do,
and if we cannot get a satellite
off the ground, let alone bleep-
ing over Minsk and Pinsk, the
least we can do is to fit up a
few French lower jaws with
plastic teeth.”
* * *
Italian Socialist Guiseppe
Saragat: “The Soviet menace,
which appeared to be dissipat-
ing with the death of Stalin,
has instead increased, and
today is more preoccupying
than at any other moment of
the cold war. All know that
the Soviet drive toward the
Middle East is not to help the
Arab peoples obtain full
independence but to menace
Europe’s oil supplies and thus
bring a decisive blow to the
industrial development of our
Continent and to the level of
life of our working masses.”
* * *
A nenrin Bevan : “I believe
that we must recognise the
fact that Russia is a power in
the Middle East and that any
arrangement for stabilising the
area necessarily must be one
to which Russia is prepared to
contribute. It doesn’t mean
that we have to accept the
Russian policy, but it does
mean that there must be a
mutually agreed policy, and at
the moment I see no sign in the
United States of a readiness to
accept that point of view.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Grants for Tourism
Victoria’s Minister for
Public Works has announced
grants totalling £43,000 to 29
municipalities for improve-
ments and works to tourist
facilities in country areas. It is
said that “the grants were
allocated on the basis of- four
pounds from the Government
for each one pound contributed
by local authorities.”
The Victorian Government
already assists municipal
authorities and voluntary
organisations, but in no
previous instance has such
State aid been on a more
liberal basis than two State
pounds for one contributed by
the authority or organisation
concerned. As a general rule,
the basis of State aid is one-
for-one.
Can it be reasonably main-
tained that “the improvement
of tourist facilities” is twice as
deserving, or four times as
deserving, as the provision of
health, educational or cultural
facilities?
Anyway, by making grants to
local authorities to help them
do what they should do of their
own accord the State Govern-
ment is accomplishing little
towards attracting tourists from
beyond Victoria. Most holiday-
makers visiting country centres
would be local State residents,
in any case ; and it is doubtful
whether Victorians in general
approve of the State’s decision
to spend their money for the
benefit of those who are
fortunate enough to travel
within the State for their
holidays.— Ardoyne (Vic.).
A New Party
Not without sympathy, I
have read the various reactions
of Labor stalwarts to whom
the decay of this aged political
party is a catastrophe. Yet the
wonder is that it has lasted as
long as it has, and that its
unreal policy has remained
acceptable to supporters during
the past 20 years.
3Affiat did it offer? A Social-
ist theory, a dream vestige from
the Victorian era. What had it
for our young country?
Sterility of ideas, dull regi-
mentation instead of progress
and life, and the guarantee of
certain oppression at the hands
of the practical Socialists—
the Communists at a later date.
But let’s leave the shambles
presented by the official
Opposition and look at the
present Federal Government —
Liberal by name, Socialist by
safe political instinct. This so-
called Liberal party has per-
petuated a bureaucracy and
“For a moment there I almost sprang out of bed through
sheer joy of living .”
taxation policy that the ration-
ing, war-time Labor Govern-
ment might have envied. Tally
the really Liberal or (theoreti-
cally) capitalistic measures or
laws passed by the present
Government during its seven
years of office. Then, your
tally being insignificant, try to
classify Liberal legislation.
When you finally realise that
the latter is conspicuous by its
absence, you begin to under-
stand that there is no opposi-
tion to Socialism by this
present Government. Certainly,
this Government was elected
because people objected to the
nationalisation of banks. So
what? That is a pathetic
reason for carrying a Govern-
ment for seven years, and, in
effect, things are worse..
The private banks were
lending more for business and
housing and ordinary com-
mercial activities at a lower
rate of interest before this
Liberal party came to power.
Just try to obtain the same or
even similar accommodation
today seven years after.
Things are tougher than under
Labor, interest-rates are triple,
and the cynicism of banks,
both Government and private,
regarding housing has to' be
experienced to be believed.
The point arrives where one
realises that this Government
is living a lie. It is not Liberal
and anti-Socialist. It is, in cold
hard fact, more Socialist in
practice than the Labor party
was. Since it flies false colors
and is actually Socialist, then
we need an opposition party
to oppose it and lick it into
shape.
A healthy democracy may
only function well if it has a
virile and active Opposition on
the benches. In this electronic
day and age, when the
emphasis is on efficiency, pro-
duction and boring details of
that sort, we need a new
political party —to oppose the
Liberal Socialists. —D.G> C.
(n;s.w.).
Vets
Prospects for vets in country
towns aren’t as dark as painted
by “Alma” (B. 6/11/’57).
This N.S.W. town is served by
an estimable vet, ex-public
service, who reached the retir-
ing age years ago.
He makes no claim to being
up-to-date, but is kept busy on
ordinary farm - routine and
attending to the town dogs and
cats —these provide bread and
plenty of butter for a vet. in
almost any country town.
For more advanced work,
such as vacsectomising rams, 1
employ a man from 89
miles distant who, by the way,
is busy enough to employ
a qualified assistant.
Many studs employ a
vet. for lengthy periods
annually on such works as
vacsectomisation and arti-
ficial-insemination.
As with any other
business, success is not
always immediate, but for
any vet. prepared to wait
until prospective clients
become acquainted with
his work there should be
good openings in many
country towns. —Comber
(N.S.W.).
As a veterinarian, I was
surprised to read of any-
one having difficulty in
finding a commercially
rewarding practice in the
country, even though all
the larger towns and live-
stock areas are at present
serviced in eastern Aus-
tralia.
Assistantships are gener-
ally available at a very
attractive salary, and in
Victoria alone I know of
at least six practitioners
who are anxious but unable
to obtain qualified assis-
tants. Tn Victoria, S.A.
and Westralia there are still
large areas not served by
private veterinary practitioners,
The question of Government
employment should not be dis-
missed so briefly. In every
Department of Agriculture in
Australia, there are vacancies,
and these are unlikely to be
filled within the next decade or
so.
The C.5.1.R.0. is also re-
peatedly advertising for veterin-
ary graduates of suitable
academic standing. In com-
mercial organisations, too,
there is an unsupplied demand,
The cause of this nationwide
shortage is a complex one, but
one of the contributing causes


JUST ONE BRUSHING WITH
Colgate
Dental
Cream
e«oH
CLEANS
YOUR
BREATH
m
j
~
>^# v - ■
WHILE IT
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
.ii
STOPS TOOTH DECAY BEST!
Scientific tests over a 2-year period show a startling reduction
in tooth decay for those who brushed their teeth with
Colgate’s right after eatingl In fact X-rays showed no new
cavities whatever for almost 2 out of 3 people.
mm
Keeps children's teeth healthy
Scientific teste showed that tht Colgate waf
of brushing teeth right after sating stopped
decay for more people thafl fvSr befol#
reported in all dentifrice hisfbff, You*
teeth are whiter —• brightSf and yoil
are assured of round-the-clock protection
against decay-causing enzyme!,
Colgate Dental Cream Is Australia’s largest
America's largest the world's largest selling dental cream
Get the family economy size and save up to 2/2.
WI7IB
has been the lack of universities
with a faculty of veterinary
science. At present these are
restricted to Sydney and
Brisbane.
In Victoria last year approxi-
mately 30 applications were
made for two veterinary-
science scholarships awarded
“ Dammit , how many more questions? You're Worse
than Eddie Ward r "
by the Department of Agricul-
ture. Most of the unsuccessful
students take up some other
course and are lost to the live-
stock industry. A real solu-
tion to the problem would be
for Melbourne University to re-
open its faculty of veterinary
science.—W. J. P. (Vic.).
Council Finance
Councils may have “business
brains” available to run them
(B. 30/10/ ’57), but there’s little
to stop no-hopers being elected
to a position where they can, by
numerical strength, thwart the
efforts of capable experienced
men. The usual result is that
the best types either give the
game away or coast along, tak-
ing care to protect themselves,
on paper, against any repercus-
sions that may arise through
mismanagement beyond their
control.
Oil companies deliver petrol
from dawn to midnight only
because it suits them—that they
couldn’t care less about capital
working long hours, or even
working at all, is indicated by
the fortunes invested in service-
stations. Most councils receive
enough requests to keep men
and machinery working 24
hours a day, but, fortunately,
council employees are pro-
tected from an exacting public
by awards which limit the
length of the working day as
well as hours to be worked.
It would be hard to deter-
mine, from a passing tram, the
reason for accumulation of
plant at a council , depot.
Graders only operate to advan-
tage when soil moistufe-content
is right. In other cities use of
this type of equipment has
ceased with the disappearance
of earth and gravel roads. The
steamroller, no doubt super-
seded long since by a diesel, is
probably sitting there for use in
emergency. Its capital-value
as scrap would be something
like £2O. The tipping-trucks
probably work a normal day ;
as councils enjoy concessions
in sales-tak and registration
there is less reason for the
vehicles working around the
clock than if privately owned.
In any case, if plant was used
around the clock, depreciation
would be more rapid and the
small saving made by distribu-
ting interest on capital over
more hours would be lost in the
colossal cost of overtime.
It is impossible for anyone to
determine whether a central
pooUof machinery would be
economical without careful
analysis of the facts. Two
important factors are wear and
tear on vehicles caused by
travelling extra distance, and
the loss of individual interest by
operators of pool plant.—
Touchy (N.S.W.).
If municipal councils have
any capital equipment lying idle
I’d suggest they use some of it
to build suburban footpaths.
We live in a new suburb
where the council’s only atten-
tion to ratepayers (beside collec-
ting rates) is the emptying of
garbage-cans. The other day,
in a burst of civic pride, I
cleaned up the mass of weeds
that flourished between our
front fence and the roadway. I
cleared the whole 100 ft. path
and stacked the grass in heaps
along the edge of the road,
ready for burning when it dried
off. The job took best part of
a day, and my backache lasted
a week.
Within that week a letter
arrived from the. council: it
did not thank me for my


energetic effort, nor did it offer
to lower my rates for saving the
council’s time. In very definite
official language it asked me to
remove the obstructions I had
left on the edge of the foot-
path.—C. W. (S.A.).
Carillon Recital
Twelve people turned-up at
Sydney Uni. for its 573rd
Carillon Recital after notices
had been strewn around the
university and an ad. inserted
in a Sydney paper.
They discovered that the
carillon is quite a versatile and
interesting instrument, and
that an afternoon’s carillon-
listening is novel and enjoyable.
Three carillonists were on
deck: J. Lindsay Gordon
(leader of the “trill-playing”
school of carillonists), Errol
Lea-Scarlett (honorary ' caril-
lonist), and university caril-
lonist John Gordon.
The programme ranged
from aboriginal melodies and
hymn-tunes to the glassily
brilliant Cuckoo Prelude of
Mathias van den Gheyn. In the
hymn-tunes, standard practice
seemed to be to play the melody
right through, then to decorate
it with a tinkling cascade of
treble bells. In its upper
reaches the carillon has an
almost harp-like brittleness. —
A. W. (N.S.W.).
TV \
Most criticism of TV (B.
13 /11/ ’57) complains that it is
impossible to keep children
away from it. If that is so the
fault is entirely with the
parents. In my own schooldays
my father ruled, “No listening
to the radio during the school
week.” And there wasn’t.
Owners of TV-sets must
realise that if they do not want
their children to watch all the
time they must take a firm
stand from the beginning. TV
has such obvious advantages,
particularly with education,
news and sport, that it is a very
great asset in the home. And,
incidentally, the programmes in
Australia compare very
favorably with those in the
U.K. and North America. —
G.R. (Tas.).
Television daily becomes as
significant a medium for the
cultural advancement and
entertainment of the masses as
the printed word has been for
centuries. Time inevitably
improved radio broadcasting,
both technically and culturally ;
and time will likewise adjust
the faults of telecasting. Time
also inevitably adjusts the
individual’s reactions to all
innovations to a reasonable
norm.
Children may, and do, prefer
watching and listening to tele-
vised stories to listening to
adults reading tales from books.
That is natural seeing and
hearing is better than merely
hearing—but it does not neces-
sarily mean that children will
lose the urge to read. So far
TV has had no noticeable effect
upon the publication of books.
In Australia (though there may
be no connection) book-
publishers have enjoyed better
business during the first year
of TV than ever before.
TV may restrict the playing
of outdoor games for a start,
but not for long. Once accus-
tomed to the novelty, children
“Who gave this kid a bone to play with?”
quickly arrange their leisure
activities to fit the times of
their favorite programmes.
Australian TV may leave
much to be desired, but as
another amenity to better living
it’s here to stay. —P. O. M. C.
(N.S.W.).
N.Q. Capital
“H.G.L.” nominates Cook-
town for the capital of North
Queensland (B. 13/11/’S7V He
says it has a good port, but
agrees that “it may need
dredging.” It certainly does.
It also .needs a new wharf.
Even these improvements
would hardly induce overseas
shipping to call there. As for
its embryo railway, the least
said about that the better.
If the new State of North
Queensland comes into being
within the next few years its
first need will be a suitable
site for its capital, and that
will have to be a ready-made
centre which is best placed to
serve the whole area. Cook-
town would perpetuate the very.
thing that Northerners com-
plain about today their
remoteness from the present
seat of government. For every
undeveloped acre north and
west of Cooktown, there are
hundreds of equally rich—and
producing—acres in the huge
area south of it.
If a port is essential—and
there are overwhelming
arguments to say that*it is—
Mackay, Bowen, Townsville
and Cairns have pre-eminent
advantages in that they are
already fully equipped.
The only access to Cooktown
from the south is by plane, by
a weekly launch-service, or
by a hazardous trip of over 200
miles by a road still only open
during the dry months all
from Cairns, which is. itself
about 400 miles from the
proposed southern boundary of
the new State! —P. M. (N.S.W-).
Public Parks
A nominal entrance-fee to
public parks (B. 30/11/’57) is
not unusual and is possibly the
fairest way for municipalities
to meet the heavy cost of
maintaining parks. Mel-
bourne’s Botanic Gardens,
within a mile of the city, is
undoubtedly Australia’s most
beautiful park in layout, up-
keep and variety of trees and
shrubs. Nothing is charged
for admission, the cost being
borne by the Melbourne City
Council. Yet, of the people who
visit it, only the smallest
minority would be paying rates
to the council,
Emerald shire, in the
Dandenongs, faced much the
same problem a few years back
with its lovely park, a popular
spot with city folk during the
warmer weather. A small
admittance-charge was made
and, despite a lot of criticism,
attendance was maintained
and, if anything, improved.
Unfortunately, few Aus-
tralian municipalities seem
willing to make a charge for
people entering their public
parks, yet it is quite common
in other countries. At Sutton
Coal Field, a large park only
a few miles from Birmingham
(scene of this year's Scout
Jamboree and once a hunting-
ground of Henry VIII, who,
incidentally, gave it to the
peo p 1 e), the locals and
thousands of overseas visitors
gladly pay their 3d. admission
or their yearly 10s. They realise
this money is only to benefit
them in the long-run, for it is
all earmarked for maintenance
and development of the park.
Melbourne City Council
wouldn’t be criticised if it
placed a 3d. or 6d. turnstile at
its Botanic Gardens gates.
Much the same could be done
at other large parks like
King’s Park in Perth. Other-
wise councils will only increase
rates and, once again, the
unfortunate few will be paying
for the pleasures of the masses.
—Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).


CARD CONJURING
The-most fascinating hobby.
Forcing pack and normal pack,
12/- the two, post free.
Send P.N. to “THE MAGIC BOX,”
No. 28, P. 0., Gordon, N.S.W.
If after examination you wish to return
the packs your money will be refunded
without question.
Divorce Notice
IN' THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
, SOUTH WALES— “-In Divorce.
TO ERNEST KEITH GREEN.—TAKE
NOTICE that GWENDOLINE MARY
GREEN has filed a Petition for Divorce
in Suit No. 2510 of 1957 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
23rd January 1958 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
J. 0. RICKARD, SYMONDS k CO.,
Solicitors, of 67 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Thl Bulletin, November 27, 1957
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order for.. «
months' subscription to The Bulletin.
RECIPIENT:
ADDRESS
DONOR: .
ADDRESS
GIFT SUBSCRIPTION: If the above is a Christmas gift
an appropriate Greetings-card will be sent direct to the
recipient announcing your gift and signed on your behalf.
SIGN CARD : .. ♦»« • ..
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year— £l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—rl 9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add Exchange to country cheques
but music must have more
than that.
The final item, Papa
Haydn’s genial Trio Sonata,
Op. 8, No. 4, descended like
balm to this commentator.
* * *
“The Swamp Creatures”
Watching Canberra Reper-
tory’s performance of Alan
Seymour’s “The Swamp
Creatures” was like listening to
faint signals on a wireless-
receiver. It caused one to
strain, -and both the play and
the acting contributed to this.
The play is a rather untidy
union between- one fact and a
whole group of derived ideas —
of talk about an elite, of good
and evil, of Nature, of town
and country, and of Freud,
poor old Freud as the deus ex
machina. The characters, built
and fashioned round these
ideas, were puppets or mouth-
pieces for the author's ideas
rather than flesh-and-blood
human beings.
The play thus never
developed into one big conflict
of idea or character, but
degenerated in the third act
into a bewildering series of
shadow-sparrings. It was a
pity, because Seymour has
something to say, but is
thwarted by dragging in too
much, including Freud, as
though an explanation can send
us away satisfied.
There was talent in the
acting. Harry Schmidt created
the countryman, the man in
love with trees, birds and
animals, and he made us feel
there was a moral issue between
town and country, as though
a man’s preferences on that
subject exposed his real nature.
Barbara Shanahan was just as
successful as the dotty sister,
the one who lost her grip once
the good life of love and
procreation was filched from
her.
Michael Dennis and Joyce
Goodes did not quite reach
their standard. Dennis lacked
the range in voice and move-
ment and mood ; he looked
pained, puzzled or stunned
very%well, but failed to get
over the conflict between the
town and the country or the
attractions of the swamp.
Miss Goodes used too much
strut and posture to convey an
authoritarian personality, but
her d i ffl c u 11 i e s probably
stemmed from the failure of the
author to explore the character
thoroughly. And in the crisis
of the play the author cripples
her by insisting on self-
explanation rather than self-
revelation.
Daphne Curtis, too, was
surprisingly flat-footed,' Stiff
and uncommunicative, but
again probably because the
author had not created a
character. The production
went smoothly, and the setting
evoked the atmosphere of the
swamp and that dip into fear
and madness and destruction.
M. C.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Dragon”
Heaven knows where Sydney
Genesians dug up Lady
Gregory’s “The Dragon,” but
dug it up they have and it
turns out to be not a bad little
fairytale at all, at all, complete
with a kindly king, a cruel
queen, a fair princess waiting to
be devoured, a prince disguised
as a cook come to rescue her,
and the dragon himself roaring
and ranting out of the sea
until the carnivorous heart is
cut out of him and replaced
with a vegetarian one so that he
hies away to the South Seas in
search of coconuts instead of
maidens fair.
It’s quite a charming little
piece really, and very nicely
put on and dressed; Ken
Imison’s king, like a nobbly
little potato with a smile on it;
Kathleen Scott’s queen — one
can almost hear her saying
“Off with their heads” • and
Marlene Horsell’s princess and
John Pooley’s prince head an
agreeable cast.
Artbursts
Butterflies
Mary Talbot’s birds, flowers,
spiderwebs, butterflies, wrought-
iron balconies and airy gothic
towers floated lightly over
Sydney at the Terry Clune
galleries.. Pen-drawings lightly
touched with colorful washes,
deriving from Beardsley and
fanciful rather than imagina-
tive, they give one an uneasy
feeling that the next step will
be fairies. But still, even fairies
are pleasant in their right place
—as illustrations to children’s
books. This Melbourne artist’s
slight, delicate talent needs
disciplining either in that direc-
tion or into the more precise
observation of natural forms:
there is much still to be said
about butterflies if it is said
with conviction.
Films
“A Man Is Ten Feet Tall”
A powerful film set in a big
New York railway freight-
handling depot.
A young Army-deserter, with
a problem-child background
and the rebellious feeling that
life has kicked him around,
gets a job in the depot, and
immediately comes under the
influence of a brutal ganger
(Jack Warden) to whom he is
forced to pay weekly tribute or
else be fired.
A negro ganger (Sydney
Portier) befriends him, shep-
herds him away from the other
ganger and takes him into the
genial atmosphere of his own
home. Old hatreds between
the two gangers flare into a
fight with billhooks in which
the negro is murdered, but mis-
guided loyalties by the workers
baffle the investigating police
until the young fellow invites
a fight with the surviving
ganger in the presence of the
whole depot.
Poitier adds to his already-
considerable reputation with a
sincere and understanding
performance; Warden and
newcomer John Cassavetus (as
the young fellow) are both
excellent. At Sydney* St.
James.


JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES FOR
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
FOR
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing ail fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of
residence at St. John’s College and an allowance of up to £lO per annum,
payable at the discretion of the Trustees,
OR *
(b) HAYVKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and test books not exceeding £175 per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under
the Will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Carbolic parents whose means are
insufficient to e«able their sons to study Agricultural Science and must
satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the University of Sydney, or
of Entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be.
Forms' of Application (which must be returned duly completed not
later than the i)th December, 1557, in the case of Bursaries tenable at
the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, and not later than the 20th January,
19~,8. in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney), and further
particulars may be obtained from:—
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY I'M SEMDING IT TO
GRAZCOS”
DAIRYING DEVELOPMENTS
By “P.H.R.”
"COR generations, the march
of progress seemed to
bypass dairyfarmers. Then
suddenly—mostly in the last
decade —scientists and engineers
“discovered” the dairyfarm. A
sometimes bewildering array of
new methods and machines
have been extended to us —at a
price. It might pay us to take
stock of these changes and see
how many of them we are
using around the place—-
and how many are making the
dairying job easier and more
profitable.
Let’s begin with our home-
from-home —the dairy, milk-
shed or bails (depending on
which State you hail from).
If I remember right, it all
began with a man called
Petersen. This genial, burly
American professor explained
more simply than anyone else
how a cow let down her milk
to the machine.
We learned that milk began
flowing about half a minute
Tests have been made
to decide the advan-
tages of light surface
insecticide spraying to
protect sheep from
fly-strike, as against
normal jetting.
Results showed that
spraying used two to
four times as much
insecticide to obtain
results equal to jet-
ting. However, spray-
ing is a much quicker
job. So far as lambs
are concerned, excel-
lent protection against
fly-strike is provided
when Elastrator Rub-
ber Rings are used
for marking and
tailing.
after washing, thanks to a
secreted hormone, and con-
tinued flowing for about four
minutes until the hormone
fizzled out. This hormone
meant we had to streamline our
shed routine to get all the milk,
and to avoid the tugging on
empty udders which encouraged
mastitis.
On Professor W E. Peter-
sen’s second visit he recom-
mended we cut out the pause
after washing, as for most cows
the act of entering the shed
was the signal to set the
hormone mechanism working.
We also had to thank the
professor for doing away with
hand- stripping; although,
oddly enough, some diehards
still insist on this unnecessary
time-waster.
The quick-milking technique
soon changed the design of
milk-sheds and we saw more
and more walk-through bails.
Now a smart operator in a well-
designed set-up with four units
can comfortably mi'ik 40 cows
an hour singlehanded.
Machine - design, however,
has changed surprisingly little.
Pulsators have improved and
we have seen the introduction
of a clever device from New
Zealand: the Ruakura Milk
Flow Indicator.
Experts say a man can’t milk
properly without one, for the
indicator shows the moment a
cow starts milking, the time
she begins to ease-up, and the
instant she stops. You can
see the whole show as you walk
past the rear of the cows.
Clever. And it can be fitted to
any machine.
For most of the eventful
decade we kidded ourselves that
our hard - worked milking-
machines were doing a first-
class job. Then some scary
reports got around that 98
per cent, of machines in .some
districts were inefficient, cost-
ing milk, upsetting cows, and
aggravating mastitis.
Machines to test machines
had been invented and they
showed up the shortcomings.
Now you can get your Depart-
ment of Agriculture or Milk
Board to test your machine for
free.
One machine-improvement
(again from New Zealand) is
worthy of mention —“in-place”
cleaning, or recirculation. It’s
available on most new machines
or, if you are a handyman,
you can adapt your existing
machine.
Cleaning-water is made to
go round and round from milk-
line to air-line, so that the
“I think I'll start off with my No. 3 deep-cutter.”
whole outfit gets a good soak-
ing while you spend five useful
minutes washing utensils or
having a smoke.
At last, shed-design seems to
be taking a new twist. “Why
stoop?” the dairyman of today
is asking. Result, the elevated
bails and the revolutionary
“herringbone” cowshed.
In Queensland, two Samson-
vale dairyfarmers have cut 90
minutes off the time taken to
milk their 120-cow herd, thanks
to their herringbone shed.
Even without recirculation,
cleaning in today’s shed is
easier. We have the (New
Zealand) acid-alkali cleaning
method which removes both
milk-fat and milk-stone, yet
leaves tin-plating and milkers’
hands unharmed.
Kerosene and electric heaters
are replacing our old wood-
stoves. Some of us have
worked out how much our
firewood really costs then
picked-up a catalogue and
ordered one of these modern
heaters.
But the latest, maybe greatest,
boon to milking is the happy
discovery that you get no less
milk by milking early in the
afternoon after a late morning
start. You needn’t keep even
milking-intervals.
Dr. C. P. McMeakin’s
experiments at Ruakura have
showed that cows milked at
8 a.m. and 4 p.m. give just as
much milk as those milked at
5 a.m. and 5 p.m. I know
which times I prefer ...
Now let’s see how our ideas
on feeding have changed. An
Englishman, Rex Paterson,
profoundly changed many of


Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
V
os
CM-
isto
fVOV**
eo» e
IlV**I** 1 **
4
> Dii-€ai(k.
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRJ-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly ruppll.o—
Writ. t. DAVIS GELATINE: 6-PO lor 1511,
SYDNEY • S.PO So. 4058. MELBOURNE • GPO.
lor 712 F, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. 800 7SBK. BRISBANE
• SJ>.O 800 588 PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
our lives here. He figured:
“Why invent costly chopping,
blowing, loading, carting and
stacking machines to fill
elaborate silos when you can
stick a simple rake with no
moving parts behind your
tractor and do the job better?”
The buckrake was born, and
for the first time one man could
conserve all his fodder with
implements worth less than
£lOO, and still feel fresh enough
to go to a dance at the end
of it.
This same eventful decade
has also seen the ready accep-
tance of that other compact
wonder, the pick-up baler. How
many of us would want to
go back to the old hand-press
era?
New horizons have also been
opened up in irrigation. H. J.
Geddes, Director of the Uni-
versity of Sydney Animal
Husbandry Farm, has demon-
strated how water-harvesting
can economically grow
permanent improved-pasture to
carry high-producing cows in
erratic-rainfall country which
was once the dairyfarmer’s
despair.
This year his dams were
empty for the first lime. How-
ever, the other day he explained
to me: “Rainfall records show
this is the worst year for 50
years. The most our critics can
say is that we are over-
capitalised for one year in
49.”
Coupled with irrigation, the
electric-fence has made strip-
grazing possible. With it have
come higher yields, better
pasture, feed saved, and less
bloat.
Another professor—this time
Englishman Robert Boutflour —
burst upon the post-war scene
with dynamic results.
Chief among these was his
advice to “steam-up” your
cows before calving. This
mollycoddling for about six
weeks ahead has been shown to
repay handsomely in extra
milk. “If the treatment
develops the udder unduly,
milk it right out,” he thunders.
Ibis daily pre-calving milking is
vital to avoid mastitis and milk-
fever, he says. He has his
critics—but his own herd is one
of the world’s highest in pro-
duction at over 2000 gallons
average a cow.
Turning to animal health,
the fiery decade has seen many
Problems brought nearer solu-
tion—and a few more worries
aggravated.
Mastitis was always with us:
jhe man who never had it in
his herd was either a fool or
a liar. Yes, mastitis is still with
us, but treatment Is swift and
easy. Penicillin is still the main
prop, but the newer antibiotics
are having some measure of
success in treating the more
obstinate staph, variety.
Milk-fever need no longer
kill or maim. Gone are the
days of the bicycle-pump
and the “udder ill” that
followed. Calcium boroglu-
conate, plus vigilance, are 100
per cent. sure.
Contagious - abortion need
not keep you awake nights if
you have your calves vaccinated
with Strain 19 —and you are
sensible about slipped calves.
And if you have your herd
t.b.-tested you can be sure that
np wheezy reactors are spread-
ing the dread disease and lower-
ing yields throughout your
herd. (Your kids are safe then,
too!)
There’s still plenty the
scientists don’t know about
bloat. We know that it is more
prevalent than it used to be,
and blame our cherished
improved-pastures for that. But
the treatments havb come
forward to match the problem
—peanut-oil, penicillin, deter-
gents, and controlled grazing.
Reports from New Zealand
indicate, too, that a tendency
to bloat may be inherited. One
day, therefore, we may be able
to breed it out.
In calf-health, great progress
has been made. We know the
value of rotating calf-paddocks
to avpid worms, the importance
of bucket-hygiene, and the
effectiveness of antibiotics
such as terramycin in prevent-
ing scours. Feeding antibiotics
as growth-stimulants has also
brought dramatic results,
especially where health-
standards were poorest.
Of all aspects, breeding has
shown least progress in the last
10 years. Which proves you
can’t hurry nature any more
than you can .change the fixed
ideas of some breeders.
Startling evidence has come
to light that it is quicker to
increase yields by selecting for
yields, rather than for appear-
ance. But old customs die hard.
Widespread artificial-insemi-
nation is coming, and will
shake things up in the quiet
world of dairy-breeding. In
Britain over half the dairy-
cows are bred artificially
more than 11 million a year.
Each sire inseminates, on the
average, 2000 cows a year.
Breeding for poll character-
istics has not been favored—
dehorning is so easy, especially
if practised on calves. And
with this practice should be
coupled the newer one of
tattooing the calf’s ear for
identification through life.
This, along with herd-
recording, makes a planned
programme of culling for pro-
duction and temperament
easier than ever before.
The last 10 years, I believe,
have seen a new emphasis on
temperament that of the
dairyfarmer as well as the cow.
We nave learned that even if
you cannot love your cows,
you cant kick them and make
w£! JT ??• <>
Tu v *5? o
I believe the last 10 years
are only a faint whisper
compared with what is to burst
on the dairying scene.
Bulk-handling is here for
some of us. A six-day farm-
week may be close at hand —
on Sundays we may be able to
persuade the cow to take a
holiday from milk-secretion.
Gamma-rays may be used to
keep milk almost indefinitely.
New markets , may be opened
with milk that is fortified with
antibodies to prevent disease
in the drinker.
However, let’s not be too
concerned with the future.
Plenty of us haven’t yet caught-
up with the present. Maybe
somewhere in the cavalcade of
progress is a leisure-earner or
money-maker some of us have
overlooked.
Wool and String
“Buzoe”: It is interesting,
every season, to speculate as to
what will be bothering the
wool-manufacturer, for every
season he has a complaint.
Last year there was an
outcry about the bad classing
of Australian clips—possibly
from those who were sold wool
previously bought “off the
sheep’s back” in Western
Australia,
After 'all, why 'should a
grower bother about the expert
classing of his clip when it had
already been sold? Perhaps
that was one of the rare occa-
sions the manu f a cturer, on
sober realised that
he couldn,t ha ve it both ways.
r™. . 3 '
J ear must he one of
~ wben the supply of com-
plaints is running a bit light,
t° r “ e old hard y Perennial
bas been brought out: the
presence of jute-fibres in the
w °° l - , . . *
Nobody knows for how long
how often this matter has
been brought up and discussed
a * . i en gth and with great
seriousness in the columns of
those periodicals which circu-
a*e am ong woolgrowers. .
One of the oldest woolbuyers
the country assures me that
was going strong when he
went through the mill at Brad-
f°rd as a boy, and that it has
been coming up periodically
eve r since,
The objection of the manu-
facturers to jute- or hemp-
fibres in the wool is quite
understandable, for foreign
matter in the processed wool
can cause quite a lot of trouble,
The recent discussion
followed the usual form,
solemnly weighing the advan-
tages of paper-lined bales or
of bales which have had their


Lstab'isbed 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Skipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACK&ON k
O'SUI-LlVav
/ i, ptyltd v
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•‘JACKSUL,’* BRISBANE
inside surfaces treated with
some preparation that would
prevent loose from
adhering to the wool.
These have been tried, years
and years ago. Some growers
went to a lot of trouble to
obtain and use paper-lined
bales. But when the wool was
offered for sale, did the buyers
offer any more for those lines?
Not a razoo! So the growers
went back to the conventional
bales and left the buyers to
work the problem out for
themselves.
The buyers, of course, did
nothing of the kind. They say
what they want done and leave
it to someone else to work out
the problem.
Jt is a remarkable fact that,
if anything goes wrong in the
wool-trade, it is automatically
assumed that this is the wool-
grower’s fault.
A visitor to a woolselling
firm is greeted, when he comes
to the wool-department, by a
large notice urging the
to keep string and other loose
fibres out of his bales. The
assumption is that the grower
puts these things in or doesn’t
do enough to keep them out of
his bales.
Which seems to be a bit
rough on the woolgrower,
because whatever his wool may
be like —and he must accept
the responsibility if it is not as
good as it might be —he doesn’t
put string or any such odds and
ends in his bales, because he
doesn’t use them. The wool
may include additions of dust,
seeds, mulga, spinifex or
barbed-wire, but not string or
stray slabs of jute.
The objectionable fibres are,
in fact, packed into the bales
on the show-floors.
When the grower’s wool is
set-out on the show-floor for
inspection by the buyers each
bale has to be opened in a
particular way, a way that is
stipulated by the buyers.
The method varies accord-
ing to the class of wool, but
. each bale must be opened
sufficiently to allow the wool
to be examined.
Which, of course, is fair
enough. No one expects the
buyer to bid for something
which he hasn’t seen.
Most bales are opened by
the removal of all, or some, of
the fastening-hooks, and the
slitting of the stitched seams
on the corners of the bales for
varying spaces. Some have
only a corner cut open, while
others are slashed down from
top to bottom. The cutting
is always done along the sewn
edge, and the natural result,
when the gap is opened, is a
lot of short pieces of jute or
fibre stitches which have been
cut through and fall on the
floor.
These are supposed to be
pulled out, but they still finish
up on the floor in most cases.
Then the buyers come along
to examine the wool, pull a
lot of it out and chuck it on
the floor. After the sales all
this wool has to be put back
into the bales again and all
the bales fastened up before
they are ready for dumping.
This is done by casual labor.
It is quite a big job. Where
the bales have been opened to
any extent it is almost always
necessary to sew up the sides
and corners which have been
cut.
The whole job is known as
“sewing - up.” The casual
laborer uses a lot of string in
the process and throws all his
odd ends down on the floor;
or, rather, on to the wool
which covers the floor. And
so, when the wool is pushed
back into the bales, in goes
most of the string with it, as
well as all of the short stitch-
ings that were cut through
when the bales were opened.
Where mobile presses are
used practically none of the
string will be pulled out, as
the wool is handled in much
larger amounts at a time and
the work is done by a team.
Where the casuals employed
afe old hands who come up
for every sale, a good deal of
the string will be pulled out.
But as most of the firms
employ anyone they can get,
and only require them to get
through the work as quickly as
possible, it is not remarkable
that there is not much interest
taken in the finer points of the
job.
It may be asked, why should
the bales be opened down the
seams? Why not open them
in the body of the bale and
so avoid the loose ends of
stitching?
The bales are opened exactly
according to the specifications
laid down by the buyers, who
also state that if the bales were
opened in any other way it
would spoil their ultimate resale
after they have been emptied.
It is not easy to get confir-
mation of this reason, especially
as my old woolbuyer friend
assures me that the bales, when
Bradford has finished with
them, are sold to pulping firms
for the making of brown-paper
bags. What may happen to
them in other centres is, of
course, another matter.
The recent introduction of
notices in many wool-stores
instructing employees to keep
string out of wool is a proof
that the position as set out
above is appreciated.
It remains to be seen whether
the woolbuyers will be able to
alter their demands in their
own interests, or whether, in a
few years’ time, there will be
another pointless discussion as
to the advisability or otherwise
of using paper-lined bales.
Bees and Seeds
“Cutlass”: During recent
years bees have been in the
news for increasing the yields of
fruit-crops, and also for boost-
irtg the seed - production of
lucerne and clovers by as much
as threefold. Many seed-
growers and orchardists hire
hives for this purpose.
The ultimate aim is to use
bees to increase the yields of
some crops by as much as 2000
per cent., D. F. Langridge,
Victoria's beekeeping expert,
told a meeting at Kerang
recently. He said that pumpkins
set fruit in direct proportion to
the number of bees working
among the flowers.
Alpha Oat
“Rand”: After its first
season, Alpha has established
itself as a special-purpose
variety of oat for early grazing
in the 20in.-and-under rainfall
area. Selected from an old
variety, Burke, • Alpha was
tested for many years before
being released to farmers.
Even in this dry season, it
has proved its worth by
topping - off early - dropped
lambs and recovering well to
give some more feed and a
handy yield of grain.
In tests at the Mallee
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(14/11/’57)
General relief rains throughout Queensland are indi-
cated during December. There is a likelihood* of flooding
in the south-west, central highlands and central coast. -
N.S.W. should receive good general rains during
December, with the heaviest falls on the north coast,
northern tablelands and north-west slopes and plains. Rain-
fall may again be below normal during 1958, with dry
conditions in the Riverina and western areas during the first
half of the year.
Moderately good rains are likely in the southern half
of Victoria xluring December, although the Mallee, Wimmera
and north country should be mainly confined to light rain.
Conditions may be dry in the northern and western areas
during the first four months of 1958.
Rainfall likely to be poor in South Australia during
December, although some improvement is possible as one
cycle indicates a wet month.
The goldfields and south-west of Western Australia
should receive reasonably good rains during December, with
general rains below normal in the Kimberleys. Rainfall
poor elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


m
i
<l.
Effect all your Insurances with
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
Insurance Company Limited
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
'Phene: BWIOII, BWIOI2, 8W4991
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
All types of General Insurance
Directors i
STRUAN ROBERTSON (Chairman)
S. E. A. STIRLING. JAMES H. STEPHENSON.
R. G. GALE. RAYMOND S. GOWARD, C.B.E,
A. C. MAITLAND N. E. MANION,
Managing Director Manager
Branches and Agencies in all States.
•
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
Research Station (Vic.), Alpha
has not only given 24cwt. of
greenstuff to the acre more than
the best of the others, but shares
with the mid-season Fulghum
the best total amount of feed
from three grazings.
Another good performer in
the Victorian Mallee has been
West Australia’s Ballidu,
which is a cross between Mulga
and Burt’s Early. It gives
vigorous early growth and good
recovery after grazing a
contrast to Mulga, which
declines after the first grazing.
In tests Ballidu has been the
best variety for grain (un-
grazed).
MHking - machines
“Agricola”: The air-flow
meter and vacuum-recorder,
perfected by Whittlestone at
Ruakura (N.Z.), have spot-
lighted a glaring weakness on
many dairyfarms. Nearly 90
per cent, of the milking-
machines tested with this
equipment have been found to
be faulty.
Some of the faults have been
minor ones that could be
speedily corrected ; others have
meant major overhauls and the
replacement of vital but worn
parts in the machine.
There is one thing remarkable
about milking-machines, com-
pared with most machinery.
They will milk, if only in a
fashion, when nearly falling
apart.
The results of the tests made
so far on milking-machines are
being collected and studied by
experts. These are some of the
major faults: vacuum-pumps
that have worn out, or have
never been oiled properly;
relief-valves that have gummed-
up ; vacuum - gauges that
register inches out of the true
reading; air-leaks in pipes and
rubbers; releaser-flaps that
stick or fail to seat properly;
pulsators that are incorrectly
set, or are badly worn, and
leak air. In some cases all
these faults have been found
in the one machine.
How many gallons of milk
have been lost, cows ruined,
and man-hours wasted is any-
one’s guess, but the problem is
serious enough to warrant the
attention of all concerned.
Dairy associations, milking-
machine companies, farmers’
organisations and other
interested bodies are buying
Whittlestone’s apparatus and
putting it to good use. Any
farmer who does not have his
machine tested with it is not
giving himself a chance. The
examination of a machine and
its correct setting is too com-
plicated a job for the eye, or
for guess-work. More exact
methods are needed, and the
air-flow meter and vacuum-
recorder fill the bill.
Here are some of the recom-
mendations made as a result of
the tests to date:
Have the vacuum - gauge
checked once a year to make
sure it is giving an accurate
reading.
Glean and grind the face and
seat of the relief-valve every
three months. Clean and
lubricate the pulsators once a
week. A squeeze-release ratio
of 30:70 is ideal for fast, clean
milking, provided the vacuum-
gauge is reading accurate at
15in. for plain, and Din. for
moulded inflations.
Flush the vacuum-pump with
a mixture of oil and kerosene
every three months. This
cleans-out sludge and old oil
and prevents the pump from
sticking. The oil-kerosene
mixture is poured into the
pump while it is running. The
mixture blows out of the
exhaust-pipe of the pump. Fill
the oil-wells daily, and make
sure the oil-wicks are in good
condition.
A regular six-monthly check
is routine on many New Zea-
land dairyfarms. It could
well be adopted here.
Poultry
Breeding-Stock
“Big Billy”: Research over
some years at Parafield Poultry
Station, in S.A., has revealed
that breeders could select their
best breeding-stock by record-
ing the number and weight of
eggs laid by pullets in only the
first three or four months of
the laying-period.
This could save considerable
time and labor usually spent
in testing laying-performances
and egg-weights for a full year
before breeding began.
Results at Parafield showed
that the average weight of the
first 20 or 30 eggs laid by pullets
usually indicated the average
weight of eggs which the birds
would lay in a full year.
Observations indicated that
most birds laying l|oz. eggs
at the beginning of the laying
produce eggs which average
more than 2oz. egg-weight in a
full year.
On the Parafield experience,
most birds which lay 70 or
more eggs in the four months
from April to July and produce
eggs with an average weight of
over I.Boz. for the first 10
eggs, or 1.90 z. for the first 20,
can be expected to lay 200 eggs
with an average weight of 2oz.
for the full year.
This method of combining
egg-production and egg-weight
records for short periods
could be successfully used to
reduce breeding-work, and new
generations of good laying-
stock could be bred each year,
The findings apply to birds in
trap-nests, single pens or
individual laying-cages, but
pullets being tested in a breed-
ing programme should be under
natural-lighting conditions.
_ .
early Mating
.
Ivanhoe ’: The irregular
supply of Australian lambs to
the UK. market can be
modified somewhat by earlier
matings in the Victorian wheat-
belt. These have been very
successful during the past two
seasons the latter of which
provided a critical test during
the important lambing and
growing periods.
Mating in mid - October
instead of the usual month
later has the advantages of the
ewes being joined when the
pastoral conditions are best
f° r flushing, and spelling the
sheep during the late winter,
when feed is often short. Late-
July sa l es well before the
general rush of lam bs to
market—give good prices which
a head this year,
, Although lucerne kept the
iambs growing during the early
winter when oats failed to
m .„ e mue “ progress, there is
a gr ® at , nee sj a positive
policy of handfeeding wheat-
land sheep when feed-shortages
occur—not only after all the
grass has been eaten.
Silage and grain, as well as
hay, could be stored with this
purpose in view, not merely as
drought-reserves, and fed-out in
feed-lot fashion. While it
would be foolish to congregate
sheep on sandy areas for this
purpose, most farms have an
area of hard ground or
timbered country where water,
grain-storages and other
facilities can be installed for
feed-lot management.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
The Premier and Mrs. Bolte were host
and hostess at the State Government’s
reception given at Parliament House late
on Thursday afternoon to the World
Chief Guide, Lady Baden-Powell. Guide
uniforms were conspicuous in the
gathering, their wearers including Mrs.
Bolte, Mrs. A. G. Rylah (wife of tlie.
Chief Secretary) and Mrs. George Reid,
all of whom are members of the State
Executive of the movement. Special
guests were Lady Herring (who wore with
her mist - grey romaine dress a
large hat of red-currant straw) and
the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress
(Mrs. Thomas adding to her afternoon-
frock of black faille a small white
curvette).
Also in Guide’s uniform was the Hon.
Gwenlillian Philipps (who is accompany-
ing Lady Baden-Powell on her tour of
Victoria and Tasmania). Her home is
in the lovely Wye Valley of Wales, with
which she considers the Dandenong
Ranges and Gippsland scenery are com-
parable. Present, too, were Lady
Smyth (a cousin of Lord Baden-Powell),
Mrs. W. J. McDonald (wife of the
Speaker), Dame Mary Daly, Mr. and
Mrs. Leo Fennessy, Mr. and Mrs. Alex
Fraser, Mr. and Mrs. E. Shepherd, and
many other members of both Houses and
their wives.
A Town Hall reception was given
last week for Lady Baden-Powell by the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr. and
Mrs. F. W. Thomas), and was attended
by the Premier and Mrs. Bolte, Sir
Edmund and Lady Herring, Sir Lionel
and Lady Hall, Mrs. A. G. Rylah, Com-
mander and Mrs. D. Curtis-Otter (she
is the retiring State Commissioner) and
her successor, Mrs. C. O. Fairbairn.
Guests also included Mrs. R. G. Casey
and Mrs. John McEwen.
The packed itinerary of the guests-of-
honor included a party given at St. Kilda
Town Hall by a committee of representa-
tives of both Scouts and Guides, and a
garden-party at Government House,
when members of the Queen’s Guides and
Queen’s Scouts were given certificates by
Sir Dallas Brooks. -
☆ ☆ ☆
The buffet of Union House was
beautifully decorated with flowers last
Friday when Chancellor of the University
Mr. Justice Dean and Mrs. Dean held an
afternoon-party there for more than 300
guests. These included the Lord and
Lady Mayoress, Vice-Chancellor Sir
George Paton, Dr. C. M. Gilray and
Mrs. Gilray, Sir John and Lady Medley,
Right Reverend S. A. Goddard and M rs -
Goddard, Archbishop and Mrs. J. J.
Booth.
Member of a former Western District
family, Susan Allen is president of St.
Vincent’s Hospital Younger Set, which
will hold a Christmas dance on December
12 at Darling Street, South Yarra, to wind
up the year’s activities. More than £700
has already been given to hospital funds
this year, proceeds of the annual ball, a
barbecue and other functions organised by
the youthful committee. Photo by John
Warlow.
Melbourne has been transformed into a
city of glowing color by its Christmas
decorations. The grey facade of many
public buildings is floodlit at night, and
their arches and alcoves outlined in rose-
pink, which gives an effect almost com-
parable with a Venetian-carnival scene.
Particularly beautiful is the appearance of
the Town Hall, where golden lights shine
on the flower-filled window-boxes. . The
City Development Association has really
excelled all previous efforts, and its
members are making the switching-on
ceremony an official one, to be held on
Friday next, November 29, at the Town
Hall.
☆ ☆
An international atmosphere marked
the premiere of the Tivoli revue “Pardon
My French,” with many Consuls, accom-
panied by their wives, in the large
audience. They included M. le Bas de
Plumetot and his wife (France); Marquis
Serafini and Marchesa Serafini (Italy);
Mr. F. Berger and Mrs. Berger (Austria);
Mr. Graham Hall and Mrs. Hall (U.S.).
With Mrs. N. Lynch (whose velvet
theatre-coat of mushroom-pink covered
a lace dress of a paler shade) were two
American visitors: Mrs. R. H. Crawford
(in jewel-red satin dress and blue mink
stole) and Margaret Spangler (whose
white satin shoes were studded with rhine-
stones to match the embroidery on her
swathed dress of heavy white crepe-silk).
Also noted were Mr. and Mrs. H. Pacini,
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell, Mrs. Norman
Spry, Miss Daphne Kaufman and Mrs. P.
Briggs, Mr. and Mrs. John Inkster, Mr.
and Mrs. Leo Curtis, Sir Frank and Lady
Richardson and Mr. and Mrs. Garnet
Carroll.
# * #
An engagement-party was held on
Saturday night at her Balwyn home by
Mrs. Bruce Hall for her brother, Geoffrey
CharJesworth, and his fiancee, Meredith
Cox. Guests included visitors from
Munro, where Meredith’s parents, Mr.
and Mrs. J. C. Cox, have a property.
# # 9-
Ballarat’s civic pride was at its highest
when singer Elsie Morison returned to
her home-town to give a memorable con-
cert before returning overseas, and the
packed audience gave the soprano a
wildly enthusiastic reception. Proceeds
will be divided between South Street
Society and the Ballarat Orphanage.
Residents of the city now hope to stage
an open-air music-festival in the park,
where the large lake makes a splendid
background.
•ft ☆ ☆
Youthful audiences at Woodend and
Gisborne were delighted with the new
play, “The Princess and the Puppet Man,”
which was given its premiere there last
week by the directors of the Australian
Children’s Theatre, Joan and Betty
Rayner. The play was written around a
Danish story which the sisters heard
when abroad. Melbourne audiences will
have to wait until next year to see it, as
the travelling-theatre will be taken to
Mornington Peninsula and coastal towns
after its Central Victorian visit.
CANBERRA
To introduce his wife (formerly Mile.
Solange Collin Delavaud-Dumonteil)
French Ambassador M. Renaud Sivan
gave a late-afternoon reception at the
Hotel Canberra. Petite Mme. Sivan chose
a gold-satin brocade cocktail-frock to
receive the 300 guests with the
Ambassador. (His Excellency and Mme.
Sivan were married recently at St. Mary’s
Cathedral, Sydney, by the Very Rev.
Dean McGilvray, of Canberra.)
The Prime Minister and Dame Pattie
Menzies attended ; the many diplomats
present included the U.K. High Commis-
sioner and Lady Carrington ; the U.S.
Ambassador and Mrs. W. J. Sebald ; the
German Ambassador and Mrs. Walther
Hess (her white off-the-face straw hat
worn with a black frock); the Japanese
Ambassador and Mrs. Suzuki; Indonesian
Ambassador Dr. A. Y. Helmi and his
wife (she wearing a smart ensemble in
avocado-green with matching hat);
Chinese Minister Dr. Chen Tai Chu and
Mme. Chen; the High Commissioner
for India and Mrs. S. P. A. Menon (she
in colorful national dress); the Royal
Netherlands Ambassador and Mrs. H. J*


Lovink ; Mrs. G. E. L. Alderton, elegant
in black-and-white patterned silk; and
Canadian High Commissioner T. W. L.
Mac Dermot and his wife. Also noted
Signora Taglietti (wearing a white felt
sou’-wester with her “sack-line” tan
linen frock); Prime Minister’s Depart-
ment secretary Sir Allan Brown; and
Department of the Interior secretary
W. A. McLaren and his wife.
A toast to Mme. Sivan was proposed
by the dean of the Diplomatic Corps,
Mr. Alderton, and honored in
champagne.
# V v
Mrs. Walther Hess, wife of the German
Ambassador, was an interesting guest-
speaker at a meeting of the Business and
Professional Women’s Club of Canberra
at the Hotel Civic. The president, Mrs.
R. L. Hawke, welcomed the guest-of-
honor, who was accompanied by Mrs.
G. Blank (wife of the Embassy’s First
Secretary) and Miss M. Hess. With her
well-informed talk on women of her
country, Mrs. Hess read a goodwill letter
from the chairman of the B.P.W. Club
in Bonn, Germany. When she leaves
Australia early next year on home-leave
with her husband Mrs. Hess will take
a reciprocal message from the Canberra
members to the Bonn club.
SYDNEY
Those looking for talking topics during
the week could choose from the battle for
Babworth House (will Queensland grazier
H. de V. Rubin be allowed to give it to
St. Vincent’s for a private hospital, or
will the Woollahra Council build flats on
the site?); the ship in Belfast which was
launched by electric impulse from Sydney
when Mrs. D. F. Middleton (wife of a
director of Port Line) pressed a button ;
the price of nylons, which seems miracu-
lously to be diminishing ; the borers in
the bamboo goods from Japan; the
Queen’s 10th wedding-anniversary and
the reflection that she is even more
beautiful now than she was as a young
girl; the £l5OO cheque presented by Mrs.
Marcel Dekyvere to Dr. H. C. Coombs,
being proceeds of the Elizabethan
Theatre Ball; that radiogram and TV-set
shown by Electro-sound-Saba at the Aus-
tralia, price £675 ; the legislation regard-
ing alimony ; and the resuscitation of
the P.E.N. Club, with Mrs. Maysie Greig
3s president.
V V
It was so hot during the week and there
so many social functions it is likely
that any society for the revolutionising
°f men’s formal wear would have gained
recruits by the hundred. Innovations
We creeping in, such as frilled shirt-
fronts, but little is done to give some
r dief to the suffering stronger sex when
the temperature is in the nineties and they
are clad in double-garments.
Certainly at the reception given by the
Consul-General for Lebanon, Mr.
bhadid, and Mrs. Shadid in honor of
Lebanon’s National Day, all those who
looked really cool were the women.
Noted Mrs. Florence Broadhurst’s airy
silk-organza dress and coat in haze-blue ;
Mrs. C. R. McKerihan’s graceful dress in
cocoa lace and georgette—also the pretty
fan decorated with emerald birds which
she had brought from Tokyo ; Mrs. Frank
Louat, who was hatless, fresh-looking
in a sleeveless dress of spotted silk, and
Mrs. E. O’Dea’s pretty pink pom-pom
hat. Mrs. A. A. Alam, who had been
hostess the previous evening to an official
party of 108 when the Lebanese Associa-
tion held its ball at Prince’s, reported
that the ball had been a great success with
an attendance of nearly 400, the guests-
of-honor being the Premier and Mrs.
Cahill and Mr. and Mrs. Shadid.
On from this reception (which was at
Woollahra) to the party which the Went-
worth Liberal Social Committee was
holding at the Monash Hut at Rose Bay.
Christmas-decorations, fairylights and
bon-bons sparkled (Mrs. Millard Hagon
being the chief designer thereof). Guests-
of-honor were Senate President Sir
Alistair McMullen (but Lady McMullen,
stricken with the ’flu, could not be
present); also Senator and Mrs. Spooner,
Senator and Mrs. Anderson and Senator
McCallum. The Jock Pagans were there
(she very cool in all-white), the Leslie
Burys, the W. C. Wentworths (she
admired in her planter’s-hat of tobacco-
brown), the Lyle Moores and Mrs. J. M.
Bernays, who is chairman of the social-
committee.
Judy Champ, one of Sydney’s promising
young amateur actresses, hopes to make
the stage her career, and is studying sing-
ing to help that career along. The
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. R. M. Champ,
of Hunters Hill, she was in the
Warwick Freeman production of “The
Happiest Days of Your Life” in aid of
Manly Rotary. Judy played the head-
mistress. Her brother John, who is
becoming very well known in Sydney’s
musical circles as an accompanist, played
Billings in the Manly production. Judy’s
photo is by Norton Trevaire.
The most formal and dignified party
of the week was the reception given by
the Royal Empire Society in honor of
the Governor, Lieut.-General E. W.
Woodward, and Mrs. Woodward. Candle-
light and massed flowers gave added
graciousness to the occasion, which
called for white-tie, decorations and full-
length evening-dresses. President Ivan
Black and Mrs. Black received the 130
guests with Mr. and Mrs. A. L. Rigby
and Sir Frank and Lady Berryman,
* V v
Many Melbourne visitors went along
to the party which Mrs. Humbert
Pugliese gave at her Vaucluse home for
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Haismen, who were
married in Melbourne last week. On one
of the pleasantest evenings of the week
the 60 to 70 guests strolled through the
reception-rooms and danced to a string-
orchestra on the patios overlooking the
bay. Mr. and Mrs. Haismen (she was
Miss Helen McDougall) return to Mel-
bourne this week and will settle into
their new home in St. Kilda Road.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Literary Luncheons which have
been such a feature of the appeal for the
Chair of Australian Literature Fund
came to a close last week with an interest-
ing address, “The Letters of Henry
Kendall,” by Mr. Donovan Clark. Mr.
James, Meagher, who thanked the Royal
Empire Society for arranging the lun-
cheons, said that a sum of £20,000 had
been raised for the fund, and that in his
opinion, in one way or another £17,000
of it had been raised by Dr. Colin
Roderick. “If there had been enough
Colin Rodericks we would have raised
the £BO,OOO needed!”
Novelist Maysie Greig, who was
present at the luncheon, is now helping
to reorganise the P.E.N. Club in Sydney
and has already an impressive committee
of authors, editors and “journalists of
repute,” and is rapidly building up the
membership. Dr. Doczy, who is secre-
tary of the Melbourne P.E.N., said that
the object of the club was to safeguard
the freedom of expression of the writer,
and for the exchange of friendship and
ideas among writers of the world.
☆ a ☆
Mrs. E. W. Woodward, who is presi-
dent of the N.S.W. division of the Aus-
tralian Red Cross, suggested at the annual
meeting during the week that every home
should have a savings-box for Red
Cross, for any day one’s own life might
depend on Red Cross services. Mr. J. F.
Clack, chairman of the meeting, said the
society’s deficit of £20,000 was consider-
ably less than had been expected earlier
in the year, but had been decreased
because of reorganisation and economies.
He mentioned that the society was par-
ticularly proud of the part it had played
in the. eradication of t.b., and that
Boddington Hospital, established by Red
Cross in 1916, would be given over to
the care of the aged shortly.


matfer of fact it’s not the chook
I’m interested in. It’s Barney.”’
“She did, did she?” Barney
said, knowing quite well that
Lennie was pulling his leg.
“Yair, she did. You know
how it is, Barney. A fine young
woman like Tilly and a good
stamp of a lad like you sort
of going to waste. Naturally
Tilly gets to thinkin’ and she
thinks that it’d be pleasant if
you dropped in to see her now
and again. So she thinks if she
takes your chook and you come
to git it, maybe that’ll start
things off, like.”
“I’ll have to go and see her,”
Barney said.
“I reckon you better. She
wants you to drop up an’ get
v’r chook tonight! ‘Tell him
to come up about half-past-
five,’ she says. That’ll give her
time to git herself dolled up
a bit and maybe she’ll want to
take a bit of a walk with y’ in
the cool of the evening, see?”
“She might git more’n she
ikspecks.”
Lennie pretended to be
shocked. “Here now,” he said,
“that’s no way to be talkin’
about a respectable woman.
When you go to see Tilly, you
see that you keep y’r mind on
y’r chook.”
“I’ll see I do that. Half-past-
five, you said?”
“That’s right. ‘Tell him,’
Tilly says, ‘half-past-five. Not
before.’ ”
“I better be there, then.”
Barney mounted his bicycle
and started off.
“Hey, Barney!” Lennie
shouted.
Barney’s feet on the pedals
faltered, went into reverse and
stopped as Barney slowly
brought the bicycle to a halt.
He dismounted.
“Don’t do anything 7
wouldn’t do,” Lennie shouted ;
and his laughter drowned
Barney’s reply.
Barney mounted again and
rode off.
“So you did take his chook,”
Charlie Cask said.
“Oh, he’ll git it back tonight.
Tilly’ll only have a bit of fun
with ’im.”
“You’re on pretty good
terms with Tilly?”
Lennie bridled. “What d’you
mean by that?” he asked. “I
know her, same as you or any-
body else does.”
They went on with the job in
silence.
TiARNEY arrived home and
** put his bicycle in the bed-
room. “Wonder why Lennie’s
so anxious for me to be at
Tilly’s at harf-past-five,” he
muttered.
He went out to the kitchen
where his mother was working.
“Could you git me a bit of
lunch?” he said. “I won’t be
back for a bit.”
“Where are you going?”
“Out to Lennie Button’s to
do a bit of a job.”
Barney’s mother did not
question him further. Over the
years she had learned that it
was useless. Barney, as she put
it, “kept hisself to hisself!”
Barney put the sandwiches
and the bottle of milkless tea
into a sugarbag which he
swung across his shoulders.
Then he set off along the track
he had travelled the evening
before. He didn’t go to
Lennie’s. Instead he climbed
into his lookout on the cliff-
face and settled down to watch.
It was a warm, sunny day
and there was a great deal of
activity up ond down the
valley which ordinarily would
have claimed Barney’s atten-
tion. Today, for most of the
time, he kept his eyes on
Lennie.
It was about midday and he
was munching one of his thick
sandwiches when he saw Lennie
get on his bicycle and ride off
towards his home. Barney
followed his progress along
the road, losing him now and
then behind a clump of trees
and watching carefully until he
reappeared. Lennie rode on,
past Tilly’s corner to his own
gate.
Here, instead of pushing the
bicycle up the hilk as he usually
did, he rode over to the barn
at the foot of the hill. He went
inside and when he emerged a
few moments later Barney
noticed that a bag was slung
across his back. Barney was
very interested. Lennie had
carried no bag when he had
passed by a hundred yards
below Barney’s lookout.
Lennie rode off again. At
Tilly Norton’s he turned and,
with none of his usual secrecy,
rode up to her front door and
dismounted. He disappeared
for a moment and then Barney
saw him walking across the
yard to an old shed. He went
from there to the house, dis-
appeared inside for a short time
and then came out and rode
off. Barney noticed that he
was no longer carrying any bag.
Barney munched his sand-
wiches and swigged his cold
tea thoughtfully. He was quite
sure he had seen Lennie move
the hen from his barn to Tilly’s
shed. But he couldn’t under-
stand why Lennie had been so
definite about his calling on
Tilly at five-thirty. He decided
to wait and see. He filled in
the hours watching the valley
go about its business.
In the early afternoon he was
interested to see Mrs. Lennie
Button, with the child in the
pusher, set off down the road.
She passed Tilly’s corner as
Barney had known she would
Mrs. Lennie would not have
been seen dead in Tilly
Norton’s company.
Before she came to the spot
where Lennie was working she
turned off the road and trudged
up the sandy track to John-
stone’s. Barney nodded his
large, heavy head. This was a
common occurrence. Mi's.
Lennie would leave Johnstone’s
about milking-time, about half-
past-five.
At knock-off time Barney
grinned to see Lennie carrying
his tools to a clump of wattles
on the other side of the road.
Then he saw him mount his
bicycle and ride off. This time,
however, he didn’t pass Tilly’s
turn-off. He wheeled the
bicycle into its usual place in
the bush and presently Barney
saw him reappear opposite
Tilly’s, pause for a second and
then run across the road and
disappear behind the trees in
Tilly’s yard. A few minutes
later he saw him at the back
door. The door was opened
and he went inside.
Barney knew now what
Lennie was up to. He had
worded Tilly up and they were
going to have a joke with him.
Barney could imagine Lennie
hiding behind the bedroom
door, red-faced with silent
laughter, listening to the con-
versation between Barney and
Tilly. He could imagine how
Lennie would chaff him when
he next met him, especially if
there were other people there.
The thought made Barney
angry.
TTE was about to sneak down
and quietly retrieve his hen
when he saw in the distance
Mrs. Lennie set out with the
pusher from Johnstone's.
Then he had a better idea.
He set off down the track,
hurrying with bent knees and
keeping all the time to the
thick undergrowth. Barney
was expert at moving, swiftly
and unobserved, from one part
of the valley to the other.
He crossed the creek above
Tilly’s place and reached the
spot where Lennie had left
his bicycle in the shelter of a
fallen tree. He wheeled it out
to the road and left it stand-
ing clearly visible but pointing
in to the little track which
Lennie’s frequent visits to
Tilly had worn. Then he went
some distance away and hid.
A few minutes later he heard
the sound of the pusher-wheels
and, moving carefully in his
hiding-place, he saw Mrs.
Lennie reach the bicycle at the
side of the road and stop,
puzzled.
“You there, Lennie?” she
called.
Getting no answer she went
over closer to the bicycle and
began following the track
through the scraggy bush.
Barney could see her face and
he noted with satisfaction the
vicious tugs she gave as she
pulled the pusher after her.
Before getting to the road she
stopped and took the child out
of the pusher. She began to
make a circuit through the bush
which would bring her out
behind Tilly’s place.
Barney followed her, keep-
ing his distance.
Mrs. Lennie came out from
behind the cow-shed and
Barney’s head came round the
corner just in time to see Mrs.
Lennie’s sturdy legs take a swift
dozen steps across the grass of
Tilly's yard. She pushed open
the door and burst in.
Barney crept to the shed,
found the bag with the chook
still in it, picked it up and,
shutting the door after him, he
crept away into the bushes
by the creek.
■pROM the open kitchen-door
A came Mrs. Lennie’s loud,
angry voice.
“Chook!” she shouted. “I
know the old chook you’re
interested in!”
Lennie and Tilly 'spoke
together. Barney could hear
Tilly’s shrill voice and Lennie’s
muttered undertone. Mrs.
Lennie’s voice drowned them
both.
“Show it to me, then. Show
me Lennie’s chook and I might
begin to believe you!”
Lennie was at the door and
Barney heard him say.
“I can show it to you.”
“What are you waiting for,
then?” Mrs. Lennie screeched.
“Get it and show it to me if
you can.”
Barney heard Lennic’s foot-
steps coming across the yard as
he slipped off quietly down the
creek.
“Kwoooorrrk,” he said to
the hen; and the hen answered
him.


he considered it the form of art nearest
to the hearts of the people. The public
were accustomed to seeing it daily before
their eyes in the press ; they learnt to
appraise it, and in the end became the
jury—for it was by their vote that the
artist finally succeeded.
He had long felt that Australian
galleries were deficient in this type of
work. He had begun by seeking drawings
he recollected seeing years ago in an old
city hotel, but they were lost. Next he
tried various newspapers, but found they
discarded their originals. The Bulletin
alone appeared to have due regard for
their artists and preserved their works.
That paper had an unrivalled tradition,
he said, in that it had always fostered the
literature and art of Australia, and many
of its black-and-white artists bore com-
parison with such acknowledged masters
of the past as Keane and du Maurier. And
not only had The Bulletin made a fine
gesture in donating this magnificent collec-
tion to. the Perth Gallery, but had in
addition put him in touch with other
sources that would help in future to widen
the field and build-up a comprehensive
collection.
A catalogue, illustrated with caricatures
and bound in The Bulletin red, with the
familiar black caption, supplies bio-
graphical notes and an excellent introduc-
tion by Miss Hillary Hunter (Keeper of
the Prints). This is not only an invaluable
guide to the exhibition, but is itself a
record of distinction.
At a party given in the board-room by
“BULLETIN” BLACK-AND-WHITE
D. H. Souter, 1903
the trustees after the opening, guests were
received by the president and Mrs. Wolff.
The Chief Justice (Sir John Dwyer) and
Mrs. Drummond, Sir Ross McDonald
and Miss I. McDonald, the President of
the Legislative Council (Mr. L. Loton)
and Mrs. Loton, the Lord Mayor (Mr.
H. R. Howard), the Consul for the Nether-
lands (Mr. W. Arriens), Mr. and Mrs. F.
Bock, Mr. and Mrs. Claude Hotchin,
Mr. and Mrs. C. Lemon, Mrs. Charles
Bunning, Miss Flora Bunning, Mr. and
Mrs. Reg Summerhayes, and many other
Perth people interested in the arts,
discussed the exhibition,
Satisfaction was expressed that such
a notable collection had been acquired
to form the base of a black-and-white
section for the W.A. Art Gallery,
Congratulations for the president and
appreciation of the Bulletin’s gesture
were general.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 462
ACROSS
I—Prickly seedcase relatives accompanying a malicious
gossip. (6)
4—A stupid Shakespearian watchman not to be confused
with 1-across. (8)
7—Worshipper with Yours Truly performs subsequently.
(8)
9 —Confidences given to an audience
by an actor like Caesar’s danger
time. (6)
11 —An Egyptian god hardened. (3)
13 —Don't stop agitating a vehicle.
(5)
15 — The bill of fare for an audience
in favor of weight. (9)
16— Private sunburn on a Spanish
gipsy girl. (6)
17 — Yes they are babyishly to eat
fish. (7)
20 — Tending to behave like a wheel
nonsense mentioned by a con-
servative. (8)
21— Over-supply a measure used in
printing the nitrogenous part of
flour. (6)
23 —A boy to act about a watersider.
(9)
25 — Sturm is associated with such
stress, so 500 telephoned. (5)
26 — Relatives. (3)
27 — Block the flow of epoch impair-
ment. (6)
28— Throw moisture off by the
steeple. (8)
30 — The second of two in the middle
strip of wood and a seabird
woman who is slovenly. (8)
31 — Isn’t in the middle traces of
corruption. (6)
DOWN
1 — Conversation feature on a
humorist. (7)
2 Fancy river processes of the
mind. (13)
3 Exists on a mount of mine in
Queensland. (3)
4 German painter. (5)
5 Sat astride the unexcelled with
heavy red make-up on. (11)
6 Humanity of ye fawning hangers-
on who have no minds of their
own. (3-3)
B—Spot. (4)
10 —Devil Street share of restricted
supplies is showing. (13)
12—To asphyxiate ancient attire. (5)
14—Yet in the gin a figure’s changed.
(6-5)
18— Off-color villain which is taken in
hand by a shepherd? (5)
19— Black in steamship titters. (8)
20— Lives about teams. (7)
22 —Need to change the valley. (4)
24—Don’t stop tearing a Yorkshire
cathedral city. (5)
29 —It’s just the drink for sailors.
(3)
Solution to Crossword No. 461


contrary, many of them are becoming
most suspiciously fashionable. Our
own age will have its errors, just as
the Victorians did.
He says—venturing into very deep
anthropological waters that “the
human creature is partly a creative
genius and partly an ape. The genius
in us wants to create, the ape instinct
wants to imitate.” But surely human
psychology cannot be so easily divided.
He says that the child is essentially
creative rather than imitative —“I do
not think for a second its aim is imita-
tion.” But how does a child learn
speech, behavior, everything that makes
it human, except by imitation?
One could go on quoting examples
of his illogicality—how he derides
“composition” yet admits in the end
that the “tension” he finds necessary
even in an abstract is essentially the
same thing under another name; how
he repeatedly attacks all technical
accomplishment and yet admits in the
end that “skill in imitation” is at least
a “decoration” (the term is very
questionable) which “makes creative-
ness more effective.” But the point is
that, however illogically Orban presents
his case and however misleading he
may be at times, truth does darkly
glimmer through:—
No skill-camouflage can hide the
inability of a painter to be creative.
Of course that statement at least—
and it is fundamental to his viewpoint
—is correct: the mere mechanical exer-
cise of skill, whether in a Victorian
sentimentalist or a modem abstrac-
tionist, has never been enough to make
a great work of art. It needs, as Orban
says, “creativeness.”
But it also needs, as Orban tends to
deny, the highest degree of skill
blended with intuitive creativeness, as
do all the arts. Shakspeare was not a
child nor an African savage; and
neither was Rubens. And if the great
work of art does not necessarily
“imitate” Nature, it is surprising how
many masterpieces of the past* have
appeared to do just that and how
many new movements, shocking as they
appeared to the conservatives when
they first started, have been, as Orban
uneasily admits of the Impressionists,
an attempt to get ever closer to Nature.
Once you completely discard imita-
tion you are on the road to pure
abstraction; and once you are there,
though you may still produce a work
of art, you obviously lose that
“decoration” of reality which, in
Orban’s terms, “makes creativeness
more effective.”
Orban himself is not an abstract
painter; nor, though he maintains that
art is “essentially abstract”—it is also
essentially human—does he advocate
abstraction so much as a creative
“use” of Nature: a sound enough view-
point, but it has always seemed to this.
commentator that if you are going to
use Nature at all you might as well do
it wholeheartedly. If you can paint
flowers as a nice smudge you might as
well try to do them in all their natural
freshness.
It would have simplified Orban’s
whole terminological problem if he had
dropped on to the word “revelation”
instead of using “imitation” all the
time, a term of abuse which involves
him in tremendous difficulties with all
the “imitative” art of the past. The
great artist does not merely imitate
Nature; he reveals, through the sensi-
tivity of his personality and his supreme
technical skill, a new truth about
Nature. That is where the great artists
of the past and the best of the moderns
meet: in technical accomplishment, in
a fresh view of Nature and, to let
Orban have the last word, in creative-
ness.
The book has been very pleasantly
produced and is illustrated with a
number of black-and-white plates
intended to prove Orban’s case and
only very occasionally—as in the group
where Rodin is compared with a child
and a savage—proving something
rather like the opposite.
A. E. Housman
George L. Watson says a lot for the
first time, so far as the present reviewer
knows, in A. E. Housman, A Divided
Life (Hart-Davis). Housman’s father,
descended from two generations of
clergymen, was a well-to-do country
lawyer, largely because of his first
marriage. With the death of his first
wife, when Alfred Edward was
twelve, his father began to drink
heavily and lose money, and the boy,
having to assume early responsibility
in the house, took a grim dislike to the
old man.
Nevertheless, he was a brilliant
scholar, and went on to Oxford; and
there was seized with a strong affection
for a fellow-student, M. J. Jackson,
who was too normal to return it and
too kind to reject it. In his last
year the “sensible, methodical and
conscientious” Housman, sure of an
easy success in Greats, was ploughed,
to the astonishment of the examiners
themselves, not only with no honors,
but not even a pass-degree. He had
had a shock, Watson considers, which
could have amounted to no more than
a realisation of what would have
seemed to him a criminal passion
which “must be scrupulously con-
cealed”:—
For to Housman, quite as much as
to Jackson, the betrayal, not to say
the very existence, of such impulses
could only be regarded, in the frost-
bound climate of Victorian morality,
as a hideous revelation.
The concealment must have been
pretty complete, because when, having
lost hope of a scholastic career, and
passed the civil-service examination
and got a job in the Patent Office
where Jackson worked, he shared the
London lodgings of Moses Jackson and
his young brother Adalbert Jackson.
The need to distract himself in this
situation reinforced his ambition: he
spent his nights in classical studies at
the British Museum, and the desire for
more and more rigorous concentration
eventually overcame the pleasure he
took in Jackson’s company, and he
got himself new lodgings where he
could study without interruption.
Jackson fell in love with a young
widow, and set out to be headmaster
at the Sind College at Karachi; where-
upon Housman took refuge from deso-
lation in publishing those essays in
the textual emendation of Latin and
Greek authors which established the
brilliance and accuracy of his scholar-
ship and secured him, in 1892, the
Professorship of Latin at the University
of London.
He had no sooner been established
than Adalbert Jackson, who was
coming to replace his absent brother in
Housman’s affections, died of typhoid,
a matter of which Housman wrote
thirty years later in Number 20 of
“Last Poems”:—
Fall, winter, fall; for he,
Prompt hand and headpiece clever,
Has woven a winter robe,
And made of earth and sea
His overcoat for ever,
And wears the turning globe.
Moses Jackson having duly returned,
married and gone out to India with
his bride, and Adalbert having died,
Housman, “on the threshold of middle-
age,” at the age of nearly thirty-four,
was visited by the Muse; and from the
remains of his notebooks, which, of
course, are in the U.S. Library of
Congress, Watson conjectures times,
people and, most important, influences.
When the biographer has brought them
all together they are very impressive:
the death of his mother, the death and
departure of the only other two human
beings he ever loved, his feeling of guilt
because he loved at all, the report of
an inquest on a cadet who left a note
saying he was going to shoot himself
before causing harm to someone else,
which provided:—
Shot? so quick, so clean an ending?
Oh, that was right, lad, that was
brave:
Yours was not an ill for mending,
’Twas best to take it to the grave.
And then there was the death of his
father in 1894 .., the three years from
1892 built up to what the notebooks,
according to Watson, show to be the
vintage-year of 1895 —and what was
important about that? It was the year
of Oscar Wilde’s trial. In the spring
of 1896 “A Shropshire Lad” was


ONE-A-PECKER, TWO-A-PECKER
by Ruth Park
This new book by the author of The Harp in the South is set in the New
Zealand gold-rush days of the 1860’s. The story opens with a little girl being
sold by her mother for three sovereigns and a green linsey bodice to a
washerwoman who names her Currency. At the age of eighteen, alone and
penniless, Currency arrives in Calico Town, in the goldfields of Otago, and
the world and people of this fabulous era make a splendid tale of
entertainment. 17/6 (post 7d.)
At all booksellers and . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
An exciting novel of motor racing
THE GREEN HELMET
Jon Cleary
The brilliant Australian author of The Climate of Courage has turned to
the world of speed, thrills and excitement in this, his latest book. He writes
superbly of fear and danger, of the clash and conflict of character as well
as the clash of metal.
Ready
Now
At all
Booksellers
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
THE BLACK CLOUD
Fred Hoyle
A first work of fiction by a famous astronomer
is an exciting event, especially when the writer is
Fred Hoyle and the book is a scientific romance.
At all booksellers - - 18/9
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON ! : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
published, but it was not until Housman
was dead that his brother published
Housman’s comment on the trial: —
Oh who is that young sinner with
the handcuffs on his wrists?
And what has he been after that they
groan and shake their fists?
And wherefore is he wearing such a
conscience-stricken air?
Oh they’re taking him to prison for
the color of his hair.
Watson is very good on the rest of
Housman’s life, the self-discipline
which cut him off from most of the
world and drew an early line beyond
which even his few friends must not
pass, a discipline which broke loose
only where he could justify it as literary
criticism, in witticisms of incredible
spite and ferocity at the expense of
other Latin scholars, a discipline
which made him choose, for his life-
work, the editing of Manilius, a Latin
poet of small value whom he didn’t
like—although in the details of
Housman’s spiteful commentaries (he
used to make notes of them and keep
them until he found some unfortunate
scholar to fit them with) an essay x by
the American critic Edmund Wilson is
a little more satisfactory than is the
present biographer.
Housman, it seems, was not com-
pletely withdrawn from society. Both
at London University and later at
Cambridge he had his few friends. He
was prepared to make after-dinner
speeches; he grew fond of his food and
wine, and gave quiet little dinners at
the London Cafe Royal. He spent his
vacations travelling in Europe, and
when he visited the families of his
brothers and sisters he could be an
amusing uncle. But none less than
Edna St. Vincent Millay walked half
a mile down the street after him, afraid
to speak to him. Richard Middleton
and Frank Harris got him to lunch,
praised his poetry and even quoted it,
and at the end of the luncheon
Housman
stood there leaning gently against
the table, while soured vanity spoke
with a stammering tongue. It
seemed that our little luncheon-
party was a conspiracy to persuade
him to publish some of his poems in
the editor’s paper, and therefore he
found it necessary to be rude . . .
Even Grant Richards, whose persist-
ence in putting out new editions of
“A Shropshire Lad” had ensured its
success, had to handle Housman with
kid-gloves.
After World War I Housman took
a fancy to flying; and in 1931 published
in a German magazine, “Hermes,”
an eleven-page discourse (called
“Praefanda,” or Dirty Words)
revolving, with a solemn pedantry,
around those naughty but not
uncommon Latinisms from which
respectable modern scholars had
until then primly averted their eyes,
and which are still omitted in some
editions, even today.
It is all of a piece: the ferocious
Victorian suppression; the truly
admirable determination to stick to
the standard, the evidence of this,
evading all censorship, in the sadistic
attacks upon scholars, and this final
scholarly joke—and in the poems, that
told no story, because they dared not.
Seen from this point of view Housman’s
collected poems gain in significance;
the puzzle is no longer a puzzle but
an explanation.
Crusoes of Sunday Island: Elsie K.
Morton (Bell). This account of the
adventures of the Bell family who in
1878 settled on volcanic Sunday Island
in the Kermadecs and remained there
for 35 years is based on the reminis-
cences of Mrs. Bessie Dyke, who was
a little girl of nine when her family’s
desert-island enterprise began, and who
is now in her 89th year. First-hand
information on such a subject would
necessarily be valuable, and in this
instance it is absorbingly interesting.
The appalling hardship suffered by the
family in its first eight months on the
island (when the two eldest girls, aged
eleven and nine, had to work like
grown men cutting materials for the
hut and clambering up cliffs 1000 ft.
high in search of food) would be
incredible in a work of fiction, but here
is both amazing and touching. The
relation of the story by Elsie K.
Morton is lucid and straightforward,
but less successful when dialogue is
attempted.


No
Shareholders
ALL PROFITS BELONG
TO THE POLICYHOLDERS
TOTAL ASSETS
£37,000,000
The City Mutual Life is a
purely mutual society. It
belongs to 150,000 Australians
who enjoy the protection,
security and benefits of City
Mutual policies.
SAVE INCOME TAX
Don’t pay away in income tax, money that could be
securing the assurance benefits you need. Remember,
you can pay up to £3OO yearly in premiums and
deduct it from your income tax return. By this means,
a proportion of your investment in assurance is
actually paid for you.
TO MEN OF PROPERTY
Who want their heirs to inherit it
How often do you hear of estates being sold to pay
death duties? It can happen to you. Death duties must
be paid in cash before your heirs can inherit. The City
Mutual Life has a policy to provide this cash so that
your assets go unencumbered to your heirs. For further
information, write, ’phone or call the nearest office of
the Society.
The ' .
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
Incorporated in N.S.W. 1878
HEAD OFFICES:
N.S.W.: City Mutual Building, 60-66 Hunter Street, Sydney
Telephone: BW 2021
Q'land: City Mutual Building, 307 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telephone: FA 2371
W.A.: City Mutual Building, 62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
Telephone: BF 1451
Vic.: City Mutual Building, 459 Collins Street, Melbourne
Telephone: MB 2561
S.A.: City Mutual Building, 118 King William St., Adelaide
Telephone: W 7031
Tas.: City Mutual Building, 22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart
Telephone: B 2504
