

SOLERO
SWEET OK DRY
The Bulletin
FISH STORY — PAGE 27
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 78—No. 4016
Wednesday, January 30, 1957
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
No. 334: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
FLATFORD MILL, KEY TO THE CONSTABLE COUNTRY
THE River Stour, in East Anglia, passes through a pleasant wooded and
pastoral region around East Bergholt in Suffolk, which is known as the
Constable Country. It was there that the greatest of English landscape painters
was born in 1776 and where he spent his boyhood absorbing the sights and
scenes along the river which he later immortalised in his paintings. “Those
scenes,” he recorded, “made me a painter.”
The heart of the Constable Country is Flatford Mill, illustrated here,
which, with Dedham Mill, was owned by Constable's father, a miller. After
leaving the Grammar School at Dedham, John Constable worked in his
father’s business until he reached the age of twenty-two. Although it no
longer serves its original purpose, Flatford Mill has recently been restored and
is now in the care of the National Trust —as is the adjoining Willy Lott s
Cottage.”
Even as a schoolboy all of Constable s spare time was devoted to painting,
and later his experience as a miller, which necessitated the study of clouds and
the weather, served a useful purpose when he portrayed the beauties of the
English landscape. The cornfields, old mills, rustic bridges, the trees, farmyard
animals and, above all, the great skies filled with cumulus cloud were the
favorite subjects of this renowned painter, whose works can b'e seen in the
National Gallery, the Tate Gallery and elsewhere in London.
•In 1799, at the age of 22, Constable began his studies as a painter by
entering the Royal Academy School in London, and three years later he
held an exhibition at the Academy, to which he was elected as an associate
member in 1819. Three years earlier, after a five-year engagement, he married
Mary Bicknel): the delay being due to the opposition taf her relatives. His
monetary worries were relieved by a legacy of £BOOO in 1819. Two years
later he won a gold medal at the Paris Salon for his well-known picture Ihe
Hay Wain,” but the turning point in his career came with his “Dedham Vale,
of which there are numerous reproductions. Another ol Constable s favorite
subjects was Flatford Mill, which his brush immortalised, and tew English
landscapes were more familiar than this part of the Stour Valley.


BOOKHUIVTJER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A service for readers That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you--fiction, text book
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
THE YEAR'S POETRY
The most unguarded thing a writer
can do is to say anything at all about
his own work. He will always be
wrong, because the work is always
different from anything you can say
about it; and whatever he says will
instantly be seized upon, by reviewers
as their point of attack. Publisher’s
blurbs are in the same unfortunate
position; but only a cad would quarrel
with so defenceless an animal as a
blurb.
With which by way of preliminary,
and with an entire lack of scruple, this
reviewer has much pleasure in saying
that he disagrees with the blurb of
Australian Poetry, 1956 (Angus and
Robertson); and, if the publishers got
their information from the editor, Mr.
A. A. Phillips, then one disagrees with
him, too. For really it does not seem
true that the selection is “notable for
the number of new writers repre-
sented.”
Every editor of every issue of this
invaluable anthology has nobly intro-
duced his quota of new writers. There
aren’t more than usual this year, and,
though the newcomers contribute some
pleasant poems, it could not be said —
on the meagre evidence an anthology
must necessarily afford —that any
outstanding discovery has been made.
On the contraiy, what the collection
proves is, happily enough, that the
Old Masters are still the Old Masters.
Judith Wright—if the term may be
applied to her—is at the top of her
form. In a sense, her sequence “The
Living To the Dead” is what she has
said before: bodies and bones. She
stares into the earth too much and
her verse lacks variety. But it is also
different; and more than she has said
before. She gives the most astonishing
picture of the earth glittering with the
eyes of the dead—
It is the eyes of the dead that
memory
most ponders over, seeing a rain of
crystals
time-long carrying back to earth
their visions ;
the insect’s towers of eyes; birds’
light-filled circles ;
the fierce or gentle looks of animals
that half-see meaning . . .
and, in poetry always supple with
vitality, carries her thought to new
heights of vision: the living, inheriting
the sight and the lives of the dead,
carry them towards perfection and—
in a memorable phrase—
Earth stares with all its eyes upon
divinity.
But the distinctive character of this
anthology comes neither from the new
writers nor the long-established, but
rather from Mr. Phillips’s attempt to
organise all his contributions into a
significant pattern.
The exact reason for putting Judith
Wright first in the collection—unless
Mr. Phillips thought her poem, as it
ts, by far the best; and thereby
establishes his credentials—eludes this
reviewer. But thereafter we have Rose-
mary Dobson, Chris/ Wallace-Crabbe
and Harold Stewart discussing (in
verse) the nature of poetry and how
a poet comes to write it. Then, by
the fortunate chance that Rosemary
Dobson’s “On the Beach” is about the
sea as well as the life of poets, we are
led smoothly to Randolph Stow con-
cerned only with the sea, and Vivian
Smith—still in the watery element
on a child drowned in a pond.
The theme of childhood brings Mr
Phillips to James McAuley on the
sunlight falling on the nursery-floor
and T. Inglis Moore recalling boyhood
days at the swimming-hole. Rmh
Bedford in “Fusion” neatly fuses
water, man and earth together
I, crumped loam between my hands
Where the live waters ran,
And life was one in earth and stone
In river and in man ; ’
and so, being with earth and stone
we are in the appropriate territoiy for
the Nature-poems of Roland Robin-
son, Ernest G. Moll and others.
It would be tedious in a review to
pursue this pattern in all its details;
and also difficult—the full beauty and
significance of such arrangements are
always clearer and dearer to the
compiler than to anyone else. But
at least one should note such
admirable poems on the way as Nan
McDonald’s “The Boats”; and observe
that, after the penultimate blast of
atom-bomb poems, most notably
exemplified in Vivian Smith’s “The
Last Summer” (if that is really what
this extraordinary poem is about), the
collection—the survey of the con-
temporary poetic mind in Australia—
is eloquently rounded-off in A. D
Hope’s Yeats-like “Invocation”; which
looks beyond the “Herakleitan fire”
and sees the poet as the only defender
of “that darkness out of which our
light is won”:—
For if I do the dragon’s will, I see
Custom is served—and I am lost
indeed.
But in the lion’s burning eyes I read
Unjust, severe, divine Necessity
Declare her law. Unmoved upon
her hill
She guards the eternal measures of
the world ;
But at the laws of men her lip is
curled,
The frantic devotees of good and ill.
All perish in the Herakleitan fire ;
But grace and mastery are in her
hand
And she grants those who learn and
understand
Vision that crowns the might of
their desire.
No editor can thus mould the year’s
poetry into a pattern without, however
unwittingly, including a few weak
items which happen to suit the pattern;
without representing a few writers by
poems not quite at their best; and with-
out omitting a few good things which
don’t happen to suit the pattern—all
of which errors Mr. Phillips has com-
mitted. On the other hand, everyone
must welcome the evidence of careful
and intelligent thought in the selec-
tion; and, within the confines of the
pattern, the general good taste and the
breadth of Mr. Phillips’s approach.
D.S.
"Roaming Round
New Zealand"
The reviewer of my book, Roaming
Round New Zealand, on the “Red
Page” (16/l/’57), while attempting to
be funny at my expense, suggests
falsely that this book is concerned
with advertising Ampol petroleum and
Holden cars.
I can take a joke, but readers of this
book will realise that the reviewer’s
insinuation is false, and his reputation
will suffer as much as mine.
In fact, though the book is dedicated
appropriately to a New Zealander,
Mr. W. G. Walkley, the word Ampol
is not mentioned even once in its pages.
The Holden car is mentioned by name
in only one reference, on page 320,
which is the last page, and apparently
the only page of the book that your
funny reviewer read.
Frank Clune.
"The Sponge Divers"
The story of the sponge-divers of
the JE gean, sentenced to extinction by
the invention of the synthetic sponge,
is one dramatic, tragic and beautiful.
The Australian husband-and-wife
team Charmian Clift and George
Johnston seem to have been so
impressed by it that their novel. The
Sponge Divers (Collins), has become
a sort of allegory, written in a spirit
of dedicated awe.
They see the island of
Kalymnos, which has lived by sponge-
diving, and is now dying with it, as a
picture of the whole changing modern
world, and all the characters in their
story are symbols of those who fight,
those who remain constant and those
who compromise or fail.
The best parts of the book are those
describing the actual diving and the
eeriness of the life under the water. The
reader experiences the strangeness of
the diver’s life, the queerness of picking
sponges from the hull of a ship
wrecked perhaps 2000 years before,
of coming on a whole ruined city
buried beneath the sea, of seeing the
“dogfish” circling round faster and
faster to mark the diver for the
r r i_ " . , . . ’ . ,
Ihe style is intense throughout.
Occasionally there is a passage of real
beauty; “The weary ships shouldering
home on the arms of a wild wind; the
faces of the men clinging in the fore-
stays, staring ahead through the spray
and all the tired, strained eyes alight
with expectancy,” Other passages are
treated with excessive solemnity:
“When they went back to the house
the lower room was in darkness, and
he went with Mina up the outside steps
to the room above, and the pink door
closed behind them.”
In general the imagery is laid on
too thickly, the rhythms too obvious,
the manner too portentous. Passages
of colorful prose follow one another
in such quick succession that the
reader is first dazzled and then
benumbed. The book seeks to deal
with the fundamentals, the simplicities
of life. A less decorative style would
have served it better.
Joke Blocks
Fougasse, the “Punch” artist and
former editor, has put out a book of
joke-blocks which does not this time
include his own, The Good-Tempered
Pencil, A Survey of Modem British and
American Humorous Art (Reinhardt).
The illustrations are’accompanied, top,
bottom and sides, by masses of type
which he considers a little sadly no
one will want to read.
It is true that it is hard to take one’s
eyes off the drawings; but, this being
done by the ever-virtuous reviewer, it
becomes clear that Mr. Fougasse has
written a treatise on humor, with notes
at the end of each chapter on the joke-
blocks, from Leech to Steig and
Giovannetti. that illustrate his conten-
tions.
If one dismisses wearily his
puddlings-about in the theories of
humor of Hobbes and Bergson, feeling
that no one will ever define humor satis-
factorily, or try to do so without
tedium, Mr. Fougasse will be seen to
make two main points; that the change
from the wood-block to the process-
block was the first great enlargement
of the joke-block industry, and that
picture-shows and broadcasting were
the second.
As to the process-block, he says the
“Australian,” Phil May-—May, born in
Leeds, was only three years in
Australia—led the world in showing
how a picture with fewest lines could
be superior to a picture with every
square centimetre filled in. The
process-block certainly freed the artist
from the interposition of his block-
maker, and made possible curves apd
squiggles and pen-lines that would be
hard to reproduce in wood, amazing
though the old wood-cutters used to be.
But Phil May’s contribution was
more than the mere exploitation of a
technical process; it was the first step
towards separating the humor from the
drawing, the presentation of the
comic lines and the suppression of
academically finished pictures. This
line of development is traced through-
out Fougasse’s treatise, at first with
approval, and then, as the comic lines
become distorted, and then childish,
with disquiet.
Indeed, his second shock to comic
drawing, the picture-shows and broad-
casting, increased this tendency to
isolate the comic lines in a form of
shorthand. Before movies and broad-
casting, he says, comic drawings were
the main popular comic, entertain-
ment, and people were prepared to
study them in detail. But when comic
drawings had to compete with films
and radio-comics, no one would spare
the time to study them at leisure, and
they had to be sharpened in line and
shortened in legend. He considers that
the frequent “Punch” ending to a joke,
“Collapse of Old Party,” was proper
in the days when a man might be read-
ing out the jokes to a roomful of
listeners, and served to bring the joke,
as a story, to a rounded end; in the
same way he points out that part of
the force of Phil May and the modem
sketchers is
the effect of hurry and dash that his
pen-lines give, the impression one
gets from them that the artist could
hardly wait to get the drawing
finished, like a story-teller whose
sentences fall over one another in
his eagerness to get to the point.
The rest of the book is a demonstra-
tion of this idea, developing to the
present day, with due credit to “The
New Yorker” for its destruction of the
picture which didn’t illustrate the joke
—by running for weeks and weeks a
series of jokes rising out of manholes
in the street. It makes 215 pages of
joke-blocks by artists including du
Maurier, Charles Dana Gibson,
Beerbohm, Bateman, Low, Held,
Sillince, Langdon, Pont, Anton,
Emmett, Gluyas Williams, Ronald
Searle, Acanthus, Thurber, Mary
Petty, William Scully, Helen Hokin-
son, L. H. Siggs, J. W. Taylor, Smilby,
Sprod (the Australian), etc.
It leaves a lot out, which is not
surprising in a commentator who con-
siders that “sex-jokes should probably
be classed among the by-products, like
political cartooning, caricature and
propaganda, as their popularity does
not directly depend on their humor,”
but it makes a good entertainment;
and if you don’t agree with Fougasse’s
point of view you can’t say, after
reading his detailed analyses of his
exhibits, that he hasn’t got one.
Reviewed Briefly
Trilby: George du Maurier (Every-
man). In essence a long short-story,
increased to a novel by du Maurier’s
recollections of his student-life in
Paris, “Trilby” has a naturalness in its
telling that much greater novelists
have not been able to command; it is,
what it appears to be, an old man
remembering the scenes and friends of
his youth. Yet, at the same time, it
puts over a fabulous story with con-
siderable art; observe how well the
English friends are prepared, by a word
or so from strangers at dinner-parties,
for the emergence of their former
maid and model as the greatest singer
in the world, the wife and pupil of the
Svengali they disdained; and how well
du Maurier manages the music, giving
the girl only the simplest of things to
sing, and not pieces requiring special
intellectual contributions from the
singer. To write convincingly about
art or music is not given to many
novelists, but du Maurier, his grand-
daughter Daphne says, sang Schubert
lieder and Beethoven’s “Adelaide” in
English salons as a young man. He
was also the best-known “Punch”
artist of his day, and his own illustra-
tions complete this edition: one of the
rare successful combinations in a novel
of three arts.
* * * *
Notre-Danie of Paris: Allan Temko
(Seeker and Warburg). In calling this
“the biography of a cathedral” Mr.
Temko, a young American, is well on
his theme, i.e., that the cathedral has
become a personality and an object of
adoration in itself—hardly the orthodox
view of its builders or those who have
inherited it from them. On the other
hand, Mr. Temko has certainly made a
most interesting study for the general
reader of the Ile-de-la-Cite from the
earliest times; its two previous
cathedrals, and, especially, the
medieval society which built the
cathedral. There is expert information
on the building, from its strong founda-
tions to its stone, ogival roofs —the
method of vaulting in stone that was
new to the times —its sculptors, its
facade in which the hands of different
master-builders can be discerned as it
rises, and its complicated rose-windows
which give not only light but strength.
* * * *
Eldorado Jane: Phyllis Bottome
(Faber). An American child-delinquent
in London with a distressing Cockney
accent (“I don’t like ter fink of it —
an’ that’s the truv!”) moves in and out
of reforming institutions, meets crooks,
policemen, social - workers and
eventually plumps for the virtuous life.
Kylie Tennant has made a better fist
of this sort of thing.


NOW AT
Anthony Horderns’
;t§
BOX 2712 G.P.O
V
M
■
C-XvX'
X>Xv
i
m
mm
m
wm
m:>y.
MV:
mm
111
K
Hip
mm
5 Pm £
1t8&8-
m
m
111
=1
T 8
V 11 : -
In
ss&&&'
m
See cooking in the continental style hg
CHEF GELENCSER
this week
“THE
CONTINENTAL
FLAVOUR”
by Chef Janos Gelencser
This book contains over 1,000
recipes of new and old favourite
Continental dishes.
Have it autographed ! 30/-.
in our Book Dept, till Sat., 2nd February
Now is your opportunity to watch a world authority on cooking actually
preparing delicious meals! From 29th Jan. A.H’s are introducing Hungaiian
chef, Janos Gelencser, in a series of fascinating demonstrations on the
art of Continental cooking. Mr. Gelencser has travelled throughout Central
European countries collecting recipes and knowledge of the culinary
art, and all his recipes are adapted to Australian ingredients. Come,
see . . . and taste the food he prepares! The demonstrations are from 10 a.m.
to 3 p.m. Mon. to Fri., and 10 to 11.45 a.m : Saturday, Ground Floor, Pitt Street,
BOOK DEPT., GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET ENTRANCE
ORDER FORM
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD.,
Box 2712 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please send me Copies of
THE CONTINENTAL FLAVOUR.
Name
Address
* (a) I enclose
* (b) Please charge to my account.
* (Strike one sentence).


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 30, 1957
Vol. 78 — No. 4016
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand -.Nathan’sBuildings {opposite G.P.O. ), Wellington.
GLOBAL DEFENCE—AND WOOMERA
DEFENCE the world over is in the melting-pot,
for the inventions of the past decade in the way of
guided missiles, new and faster and larger aircraft,
new fast-firing automatic arms, new rifles, new
elasticity of movement, explosives and nuclear and
electronic devices are in process of coming into their
own.
War is moving into new premises with a new
staff of servants, pared-down by being equipped as
all-electronic, all-electric, largely nuclear and jet-
propelled. Guns are becoming recoilless. Road-
vehicles are lighter and travel at double previous
speeds over worse country. Machine-guns fire five
or six times as many rounds a minute as in the
last war. Manpower is cut in relation to various
mechanical weapons. The elasticity, the ranging-
capacity, the mobility of war is being revolutionised.
A few days ago a hydrogen-bomb-dropping
squadron of the United States Air Force—eight jet
Stratoforts—flew completely round the world,
without landing, in the latitude of Singapore
at over 500 m.p.h. They flew partly in bad
weather and without anybody save the crews and
the organisers knowing what was happening. They
were fuelled in the air.
In these circumstances, and with such
agencies,, with 60,000-ton aircraft-battleships, the
newest of which are likely to be atomically driven
and capable of almost endless range (in contrast
with the 2000-mile string from port to which operat-
ing heavy vessels of 1940 vintage were tied), with
submarines as fast as fast liners and with limitless
range, the sea-warfare will be revolutionised, too.
It is no wonder that defences, including that
of Australia, are in the melting-pot. The whole
organisation of our Services is dependent on the
plans of the United States, Britain and the greater
European countries, into which our own plans must
be dovetailed.
We have few resources with which to
defend Australia except through that integra-
tion. It is also certain that security has ceased to
be local and has become global, a fact which has
been recognised by a few people like, particularly,
Mr. Paul Hasluck, who has stressed it a number
of times along with “The Bulletin.” It is a case
of now or never for presenting a united front to
Communism, including Chinese Communism.
In the end, possibly, this will work out for
the best. The rivalries of the two great blocs are
now in the open, and the contest for the world is
on. Into whatever happens the civilised world
must be dragged in a big way or a small way, and
we, like other small nations which want nothing
better than to be left alone, must face the fact of
certain involvement whether we like it or not, and
of having to do our share.
The genius of the United Kingdom for seeing
the inevitable and harnessing what seems to be
disaster to serve the purposes of its greatness has
been exemplified in the past few days by the prompt-
ness with which the new British Government has
faced the certainty that, whether it is good or bad,
the Eisenhower Plan will be adopted by Congress
and will determine the atmosphere of the world and
its international temperatures for some time.
The determining factor in current world
defence and reorganisation will in 1957 be the
United States defence Budget.
tt Its defence principles are set out as based on
powerful armed forces to deter and, if need be
defeat aggression.” It startled even Congress that
the P ,ans should involve an all-time record—63
sm son” 1 ' Mr a - t 0t n 1 P ro Posed expenditure of
• .800 million is allocated for “maintaining and
2 P ™ ng our ° wn defences and strengthening
heinmr^ eS f an n e f. onom,es of other nations in
The Si collective security and world peace.”
Ine mutual military-security plans of the Western
bloc will be allocated $2600 million. The Atomic
Eneigy Commission is to have $2300 million which
ure of C in a ? T times „ the whole normal eipendt
urc of Australia on all defence services.
President’s 1 RLi S f not t ? e P ro Posed limit. The
d nts budget-speech made it clear that “until
an agreement for limitation of armaments is
negotiated and an effective inspection system is
functioning, this nation will continue to increase
the number and variety of nuclear weapons.”
The emphasis is on long-distance, heavy-hitting
war aimed not at the aggressors in bulk as armies
and navies so much as at the sources and nerve-
centres of their power of offensive. Against this,
if one can judge by the knowledge available of
the military nature of both Russian and American
strength, there will be the parallel war of huge
armies. This is particularly the aim of Russia,
which has an immediate land-approach capable of
being traversed in a few hours to the English
Channel and the threshold of the main European
defence centre, Britain. The whole Western overall
strategy, however, seems likely to be to keep
striking-power drawn back within its own shell but
equipped with weapons of a range and force that
will make it possible to" blast the enemy’s lair,
depriving his ranging armies of their sources of
power.
Even in a world of lavish prosperity this global
type of defence, able to deliver its strokes on a
wholesale international scale, is so expensive that
even a rich comity of nations can ill afford
duplication or waste. The signs are that the results
of British-French action in the Middle East are
working towards a full realisation by the United
States and other nations of the dangers by which,
with the strange pulsations of hysteria and com-
placency that have marked American policy in
particular during the post-war years, Washington
thinking is now being brought to the global
outlook, largely by British influence.
Washington has hitherto been reluctant to act
globally with Britain and the Dominions. Nato
was a closed European compartment. Mr. Dulles
and his congeners did their best to put the United
Kingdom out of the Middle East and keep it out of
Seato. The U.S. became half-hearted , about that
strange organ of futility when Britain had to be
admitted.'
It is a healthy sign that out of the troubles of
the Middle East a new vision of realities and spirit
of overall co-operation seems to be in process of
birth.
The announcements of the reorganisation of
defence changes in the United States and Great
Britain were virtually contemporaneous, suggesting
concert of action. The British cuts in defence,
mostly the reduction or disbandment of auxiliary
air forces and of reserve Army units due for call-up,
and the abandonment of orders for Hunter fighters,
are largely petrol- and cash-saving devices. But
the announcement of these economies was followed
at once by more important reorientations of policy.
These aim at the establishment of an exchange of
British atomic know-how, which is far in advance
of that of the United States, especially in respect
of the development and use of industrial nuclear
power (which might prove even more important to
defence than straightout atomic armament) for
American atomic engineering resources. In fact,
it seeks an integration of the atomic programmes of
the English-speaking peoples to cut out waste and
duplication.
This integration, as it is foreshadowed, is of
great importance to Australia, since it may involve
the entry of the U.S. into the Commonwealth
Rocket Range project. This not only makes Aus-
tralia of infinitely greater importance to world
defence, but it equally makes it a target for the
enemy of higher priority and a base to the security
of which the greater Powers participating in the
scheme must provide assurance. It is likely to bring
Australia within the manned front line of nuclear
military defences.
The Humbug Tax
LAND-TAX was introduced by the Fisher Labor
Government in 1910 and has always been regarded
by the Labor party as a very fine and worthy tax.
When the Federal Government abolished it a few
years ago the Opposition was loud in its protests,
and its deputy-leader, Arthur Calwell, announced
that when Labor returned to office it would
reimpose the tax.
To those who originated it, land-tax served a
dual purpose. It brought in revenue and it was
intended to “break-up the big estates.” It brought
in revenue, all right, but at the end of the 40-odd
years it was on the Federal list of painful extractions
it didn’t do much to break up the big estates. Most
of the revenue didn’t come from rural holdings at
all but from town and city properties.
When Federal Treasurer Fadden announced
in 1952 that the Commonwealth was vacating the
field of land-taxation he said that 75 per cent, of
it was collected on city and urban property.
Fadden also indicated that the tax was not a cheap
one to administer, and he said that if the States
wanted to take it on they were welcome to it.
Most of the States jumped at the offer, but
Cahill at that time refused to pick up the purse
that Fadden had thrown away. Cahill had an
election due within a few months; and this may
have had some slight influence on his decision. The
hearts of Premiers always bleed more for the
taxpayers before an election than after. Cahill
lemained resolute against land-tax throughout the
life of the next Parliament, and when another
election was pending last year he gave an
unqualified denial that he intended to impose a
land-tax if returned to power. The denial on this
occasion was vitally important, because taxpayers
are no more grateful to Governments than Govern-
ments aie to taxpayers, and last March a handful
of ungrateful voters in a few borderline electorates
would have meant the difference between victory
and defeat to the Cahills. As it was, they lost
several seats and came back with a majority of
only six in a House of 94. Again Cahill didn’t
impose a land-tax. At least, not for six months!
When he did bring it in he went to great pains
to show that it hurt him more than it was going to
hurt the taxpayers, and to emphasise that really it
was none of his doing, but had been forced on
him by the Menzies Federal Government, which
appeared to be “pursuing a deliberate policy of
forcing State Governments to finance their services,
not in the equitable way the State would finance
them if it had a fair share of income-taxation, but
by increasing charges which fall equally on people
irrespective of their incomes, and by imposing new
and less equitable forms of taxation.” As a result
of Commonwealth harshness he had already been
“forced” in the previous year to increase stamp-
duty and to put up fares and freights; also to
increase hospital-fees. Since then he has had to
make further increases in fares and to impose a
stamp-duty on hire-purchase agreements. Now he
would have to bring back land-tax.
Heartfelt anguish for the taxpayer ill becomes
a Treasurer on Budget night, so it is understandable
that Cahill, in his cashbox-speech last August, did
not go into details over land-tax. Apart from
mentioning that various bodies and institutions
would be exempt (it must have hurt him that he
couldn’t exempt the breweries), he contented
himself with saying that the new impost would yield
about £s£ million in a full year but only £3{
million “in this, the first year.” But, forced to it or
not, anguished or otherwise, no one could call
Cahill a land-tax piker. His estimated £s{ million
for N.S.W. compared with Fadden’s £6| million
for the whole of Australia in the last year of
Federal land-tax.
There is a general exemption on all land of
an unimproved value lower than £5OOO, and on land
used for primary production up to an unimproved
value of £lO,OOO. The tax thus doesn’t touch the
smallholder or most owners of a single house.
Cahill can thus claim that it doesn’t hit the “little
people.” His anguish is therefore, apparently, for
the big-’uns, and his plight may well be pitied as,
like the Walrus, with sobs and tears he sorts out
those of the largest size, holding a ready-reckoner
before his streaming eyes.
As with the Federal land-tax, most of Cahill’s
collections will come from the cities. One retail-
store is said to be up for £60,000; a leading bank
for two to three times that amount. The breweries,
as owners of countless pubs, will have to find a
small fortune. Where will they—and others —
find it?
Mostly from Cahill’s “little people.” To the
extent that businesses can pass it on in increased
prices the consumers will pay Cahill’s land-tax,
which will thus find its way into the C-series index
and thus into the wage-structure. But many
businesses, unlike the breweries, won’t be able to
pass it on. Most primary-producers will have to
bear it themselves. Discriminatory to begin with,
in that it is imposed only on certain property-
owners, it becomes more discriminatory in practice
as it discriminates against those who can’t pass it
on. Another class so affected are those who have
invested in house-property. There is provision for
owners of business premises to pass on portion of
the tax to tenants through the fair-rents boards,
though, as a correspondent points out elsewhere in
this issue, the benefit under this clause is very
limited and in many cases quite illusory. Owners
of house-property cannot pass on the tax at all;
Opposition attempts to change this were defeated
by the Government.
Several times in the course of the debate on
the Land Tax Management Bill Cahill hinted that
he didn’t like the tax. Reminding members that
land-tax was a permissible deduction for income-tax
purposes, he said, “This is one of the redeeming
features of the measure.” He didn’t mention any
others.
Tears and soft words are one thing; actions
another. When the Premier spoke of the tax
bringing in only £3|- million this year, compared
with £s} million in a full year, the implication was
that taxpayers would be billed for only that portion
of the financial year after the commencement of
the tax —i.e., from November 1, 1956, to June 30.
1957. The first assessments are already out, and
recipients are finding that they are required to pay
the full amount on the schedule. This has been
given an air of legality by creating a special financial
year for land-tax—ending on October 31.
That date, however, has nothing to do with
the payment of the tax. This is due right away,
with a fine of 10 per cent., if not-paid within 30
days. Despite his Budget remarks, Cahill obviously
aims at collecting his full £s| million “in this, the
first year.”


OVERSHADOWED


PLAIN ENGLISH
The End of the "Argus 11
This is an age of slaughter by remote-
control. The Melbourne “Argus” was
destroyed from London, its gods there
having first done their best to make it
mad. Still capable of renewing its
century-old reputation, it nevertheless
had to die when the funds which had
supported it were suddenly cut off.
“The Argus” began publication 110
years ago. Its decline took nearly a
quarter of a century: first the depression
birth and collapse of “The Star,” its
tabloid evening-paper venture ; then its
war-time, newsprint-short conversion to
tabloid-form and the steady drift of its
bounteous classified advertisements
across-town to the stately, broadsheet
“Age” ; finally the hectic attempts of its
London “Daily Mirror” purchasers to
drag in new customers.
Seven years and millions of capital
exported from the mass-circulation
London base, flashy color as the equiva-
lent of a new neon-and-chromium front,
an editorial policy of clamant attack
and confounding crusade, great splash-
ings of glamor and gloss —none could
save this once-great newspaper.
What was meat and drink to England’s
masses proved to be not the Australians’
cup-of-tea, although some Melbourne
estimates have put the “Mirror” venture
as merely ten years too soon for success.
The fact that it didn’t succeed is im-
portant in several ways ; most immedi-
ately important in the very sudden
unemployment of a large group of fine
craftsmen in an industry which can
reabsorb them, overall, only with painful
slowness.
The more generally important loss is
the voice of “The Argus,” the third force
among Melbourne’s newspapers. Now
there are only two, in effect, and that is
not enough for a Victorian population of
over two-and-a-half-million people.
Both of these remaining houses are
stimulated to greater competition by the
mil of “The Argus.” But it is a contest
at present to divide the spoils, for spheres
of influence. Probably “The Sun” will
get the greater share of its late chief
competitor’s circulation (never able to
rise above its peak of 180,000, as against
“The Sun’s” inexorable growth towards
the half-million), and “The Age” will take
the rest of its remaining classified
advertisements.
The London “Daily Mirror” interests
received for their controlling interest in
The Argus and Australasian, Ltd., an
allotment of £350,000 of shares, at par,
in The Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd.,
representing, at the market-value then
current, roughly £l£ million. So the
“Mirror,” which at the same time had
closed out its other satrapy in Glasgow,
is assured now of a steady and substantial
return on at least some of its exported
capital.
A Too-long Recess
The industry and application of the Bolte
Government in Victoria, never seriously
questioned, is nevertheless being bitterly
criticised in the light of the current and
predicted five months’ extinction of thb
Victorian Parliament, and the further
three months’ recess that is to follow the
next sittings.
Parliament, which rose on November
9 in good time to rest and go into train-
ing for the Olympic Games, will not be
called together again until the second
week of April. After a few days it will
take at least a week’s recess for the Easter
holidays, then will sit for only two
months before rising for another three
months until the Budget session in the
spring.
It isn’t only the Labor Opposition that
complains about this sort of suppression
of the functions of deliberation, debate,
and review. But the Government, proud
in spite of all of its all-time record of
203 bills driven through both Houses
since it took the reins 19 months ago,
takes little notice of the charges that a
bureaucracy answerable only to itself
is taking over the Administration of the
State in a steady erosion of the first
democratic principle.
From their holiday hideouts, from
their business offices, almost from accom-
modation addresses like travelling-men’s,
the oracular Ministerial voices emerge
curtly to O.K. the bright ideas of their
departmental chiefs or to deny the most
insistent of the charges of neglect and
mismanagement; but they seldom present
themselves as a sitting target.
This goes beyond mere oral support,
however. Mr. Horace Petty, Minister for
Housing, stood by with aid and comfort
in the home of his Housing Commission
chief, Bradley, when it was besieged with
telephoned threats of death and had been
but recently under actual fire, with a
bullet-hole through a window.
One who gave up the desirable
obscurity last week for his art’s sake
was the Minister for Education, John
Bloomfield, who went to the National
Gallery to open the Council of Adult
Education’s summer art school, and
stayed to paint. This, although it exposed
him to charges of frivolously squandering
his Ministerial time, was justified by the
fact that he had long been a painter of
some standing and an exhibiting member
of the Victorian Artists’ Society.
An intelligent and capable Minister,
backed by an efficient departmental staff,
he is, of course, to be congratulated on
doing his exemplary bit to encourage this
cultural branch of learning. “There is
endless pleasure to be gained from the
difficulty of art,” he told the class. The
same could be said of politics, of course.
And it could also be said that there is
much more material reward—£2ooo a
year, to be precise— to be gained from
the practice of politics ; that a primary
duty of our Government is to let us
know, through our Parliament in frequent
open session, exactly how we are being
and to be governed.
Dougherty Strikes Again
With the Federal and some State
Parliamentary sessions to open soon the
position inside “Labor” becomes more
explosive and its leaders more anxious.
The A.L.P. State Executive, a “care-
taker” body, which has staved-off as long
as possible an Annual State Conference
for fear of being swept into the creek,
continues its daily expulsions and intimi-
dations. It is trying to crayfish off the
dangerous Leftist ground on which it
made a foothold when it accepted the
Hobart Conference foreign policy and
got behind Dr. Evatt. It is also struggling
in the clutch of two pairs of union arms
wound firmly round its neck. The one
pair is shooing it into action to enforce
compulsory unionism; the other,
muscled with brawny wharflaboring and
other similar unions, aims at dragging it
into the Communist United Front for
keeps. And the new Democratic Labor
Party is still growing and embarrassing it.
Under the strange system of local-
government elections which exists in
N.S.W. it has organised Labor control of
the Sydney County Council after carefully
planned campaigns. Yet it has been
sinking under its disabilities, and as if it
had not enough misfortunes and bruises
otherwise, its ancient supporter Mr. Tom
Dougherty of the A.W.U. has begun
banging its organisation and political
minions and allies on the head in public.
Mr. Dougherty waded into the trade-
union movement in general, and said it
was ruined by traitors at the top of it
and that capitalist combines were slowly
destroying trade-unions by buying their
leaders. He described the N.S.W. Parlia-
mentary Labor party as being a bunch of
“go-getters, legal experts, retired or not-
retired publicans and cranks and pro-
fessors” —which would not have been an
unfair description of the Federal Labor
Party either.
He accused State members of being
Santamaria followers and Santamaria-
manipulated but without the guts to
admit it. He challenged Mr. Monk,
president of the A.C.T.U., to disclose the
source of the amount of money he
received outside his salary. He said that
the trade-unions were being sold up the
gully by their leaders. To all of which
Mr. Monk replied, protesting against the
washing of dirty linen and accusing the
A.W.U. of “riding on the back of the
A.C.T.U. and othei* trade-unions at all
times on real industrial issues.”
Then rose the voice of Mr. Cahill, shrill
with astonishment and self-complacence,
lauding the State politicians, whom Mr.
Dougherty condemned, as “an excellent
body of men, well grounded in political
and industrial matters.. . .who have
given great service over the years to the
party....who had received no greater
support at the last elections than that of
Mr. Dougherty and the A.W.U.
“Why,” said Mr. Cahill in dazed
astonishment, “only yesterday Mr.
Dougherty invited me to address the
A.W.U. Conference.”
The State A.L.P. president, Mr. F. H.
Campbell, joined in to say that there was
no foundation for Mr. Dougherty’s
reflections on the integrity of Labor poli-
ticians. He called his statements “intem-
perate and irresponsible” as well as in-
accurate. And Mr. Dougherty replied
in kind, producing a sort of melee.
The main question which is exercising
the minds of the curious among observers
of Labor politics is the strange silence
of the N.S.W. Labor leaders. Dr. Evatt,
usually so vocal, found himself gagged
when, in absentia, he tried to get a heated
political statement on immigration read
for him to the Citizenship Conference in
Canberra. Otherwise he has been almost
mute. He seems to be hidden under a
mass of struggling bodies, unable even
to gurgle, much less make himself heard.
Markets in the East?
[From “Muggra Way’’]
For the last forty years Australian
producers, primary and secondary, have
been told by countless official and
unofficial observers that huge and growing
markets are available in Eastern
countries for our products. A few, very
few, products have established themselves
there and are doing well. Others have
spasmodic successes, due in part to their
own initiative and in part to aspects out-
side their control, such as seasonal con-
ditions and some lag in fair or unfair
competition from other countries.
The truth is that in the long run these
markets can never be developed by the
most well-meaning of Governments or
other organisations, but must be found
and secured by Australian firms with
sufficient enterprise to prospect the
opportunities and sufficient energy and
understanding to fit their prices and
packaging, as well as their actual products,
to the needs and pockets of their Asian
customers.
In most parts of Asia today the com-
petition is keen and increasing.
Competitors include the United States
(which offers subsidised surpluses
cheaply), Soviet Russia, Japan, some of
the East European Soviet satellites, and,
of course, Great Britain. Influential
factors include political links, the closing
of the Suez Canal, geographical distance
and the provision of economic and other
aid “without strings,” in addition to the
more usual aspects of trading such as
price and appearance.
Some of our products sell well in Asia,
such as the wool bought by the Japanese.
There are plans for selling a great deal of
meat to the Philippines and big
quantities of rice to unspecified Asian
countries. Other products, especially
manufactured ones, have to face and
overcome keen and shrewd selling by
other nations.
The Department of Trade is doing its
best to incite manufacturers into
investigating the markets and to assist
them in doing so, but its functions must
end there. The important thing is to
find what manufacturers are going to the
trouble and expense of spying out the
markets, and which are staying smugly
content at home under the double blanket
of tariff and import-licensing. It will
be too late to act when that blanket gets
too thin for comfort, and it would be
informative to have a survey by someone,
perhaps by the Associated Chambers of
Manufactures, of what is actually being
done, as distinct from what is being
said.
The director of the Associated
Chambers and the general-manager of the
Victorian Chamber were members
recently of a delegation which visited
India briefly, and they have both pro-
duced some constructive ideas as a result
The Victorian has pointed out, for
example, that
in studying export markets throughout
Asia it must be borne in mind that each
country presents a separate problem and
line of campaign in itself, been use 0 geo-
graphy, climate, religion, philosophy
economics and national customs play a
much bigger and more important part
than in the survey of any Western
markets.
To anyone who knows Asia, this will
seem self-evident, but it still needs saying
to those manufacturers who have not yet
tried to ascertain the potential available
or to make what Asians want, mostly
huge numbers for small buyers with small
individual needs. There is plenty of
information awaiting those prepared to
take the plunge. How many have done
it? How many could, but have not?
We should know the answers.
Intimate Conversations
Defending his action in reading to the
Security Council British Commonwealth
documents hitherto regarded as con-
fidential, India’s Krishna Menon said
“One way to preserve Commonwealth
relations is to recognise that this is a two-
way relationship.”
He was reminded by Sir Pierson Dixon,
the British delegate, that reading a textual
account of “quite intimate conversations”
was scarcely conducive to good relations.
It certainly isn’t conducive to a con-
tinuance of intimate conversations.
As to a two-way relationship in the
Commonwealth, in recent years every
new development seems to have been
worked out with an eye on what was
India’s way. The original partners of the
Commonwealth —the ones who were once
Dominions of the British Empire—agreed
to drop the word “British” because it
didn’t please India. Then they altered the
Queen’s title to the stilted “Head of the
Commonwealth” in order to find a com-
promise that would enable the Indian
Republic to stay in the Commonwealth
without feeling oppressed.
In the Suez affair India violently
opposed the British-French action. This
it had every right to do; Canada, despite
close blood-ties with both Britain and
France, was also opposed to the attack
on Suez.
But the principle of a two-way
relationship between Commonwealth
nations was scarcely furthered by India’s
subsequent conduct. Mr. Nehru immedi-
ately adopted the role of guide, philo-
sopher and friend to Nasser, and seems to
have been an influence second only to
Russia in bolstering-up the Egyptian
dictator’s morale and encouraging his
arrogance.
A transcript of some of the intimate
conversations that took place in Cairo
between Nasser and Mr. Menon might
make interesting reading, but they are
not likely to be disclosed, as Egypt is not
a member of the Commonwealth, either
on the one-way or two-way basis. Even
more interesting would be a tape-record-
ing of some intimate conversations at
Brioni, in Yugoslavia, last July. The
participants were Marshal Tito, Colonel
Nasser and Mr. Nehru, and the talks took
place only a week- before the Nasserfica-
tion of the Suez Canal. *
THE EISENHOWER DOCTRINE
[By “Ek Dum”]
'T'HE Egyptian-Israeli position hasn’t
-* been cured by putting U.N. troops in
United States helmets into the area. The
presence of the Emergency Force has
merely strengthened Nasser’s will to
mischief without intimidating Israel on
the one side or the Arab-Wee countries
on the other.
Nasser has been allowed to flout the
U.N. Charter, in spirit and in act, while
the sternest view is taken of Israel’s
refusal to give up the Gaza strip.
Mr. Dulles strengthened the ego of
the totalitarian nations of the Middle
East by saying that an American fighting
in the Middle East would feel a lot safer
without British and French troops beside
him. And there seemed, when he said
it, little doubt about his meaning. Under
continuous criticism and harassment by
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee
whose members have given him a rough
passage he was also reported to have said
that “the policies which the British and
French followed in the Middle East were
those of colonial Powers” ; that he “did
not think that nations associated with
the colonial period could strengthen the
Middle Eastern position at present,” and
that “our approach is and must be quite
different from that of colonialism.”
This, of course, was just the kind of
statement both Moscow and Nasser
wished to have from Mr. Dulles. They
couldn’t have done better themselves.
He confirmed all '‘their propaganda for
years, without doing the United States
any good. Mr. Sandys, the British
Defence Minister, told the U.S. press on
arriving in New York that Americas
attitude shocked Britain,
It certainly did not do Mr. Dulles any
good. His words were even too strong for
the State Department, whose spokesman
—not Mr. Dulles, who has not disavowed
their inferences personally—said that Mr.
Dulles was referring only to “Egypt s
inflamed feelings,” which, of course, must
not be hurt, and “was by no stretch or
imagination any reflection on the British
or French forces. ’
Having represented at the outset tha
the situation was so urgent and dangerous
that it must be left to the President to
act instanter in the Middle East in the use
of the military powers which he is seek-
ing> it now seems that if Nasser were
to make war on Israel, Israel were to
beat him back and drive for Cairo an*.
Nasser yelled for Communist volunteers
to defend him, Uncle Sam would sit by.
There are various and tortuous varia-
tions of this intriguing possibility whicn
are too numerous to mention,
Anyway, Russia has almost been
invited by the U.S to furnish the lithe
thug countries of the Middle East witn
troops. It has Mr. Dulles s assuranc
that if an armed dictatorship representing
o Continued on next page)


the merest minority of public opinion and
concentrated armed force like the existing
military dictatorship of Egypt cares to
invite 500,000 Russian “volunteers” to
make a base in the Nile region with a
view to later action it is free to do so.
Mr. Dulles has been trying to have it
both ways,' dwelling on the urgency of
special action and in the next minute
dwelling on the improbability of the need
to use the powers which are demanded
in such haste. .
At the end of the week, the United
States faced the first local barrier which
it would be called to meet head-on in
the refusal to the Israelis to come to
terms with U.N. and make a military
retirement from the Gaza Strip and their
positions in Egyptian territory along the
Gulf of Akaba— (a) unless they were
allowed to protect themselves from com-
mando raids in the Strip by retaining the
civil government “as the pilot-plant or
Israel-Arab co-operation in contact with
the United Nations”; (b) unless Israel,
Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Egypt, sharing
the shores of the Akaba Gulf, concluded
an agreement on the freedom of shipping
in the Gulf and tfce U.N. Emergency
Force meanwhile policed the mouth Ol
the Gulf pending the negotiation of
arrangements for shipping entry satisfac-
tory to the Israeli Government.
Nasser promptly announced that this
arrangement was unacceptable, and had
created a “most dangerous situation.
U.N. concurred— automatically. Wash-
ington is now faced with having to sup-
port the U.N. resolutions ordering Israel
to clear-out unconditionally.
. But there is a larger issue which has
obviously changed the whole shape or
Washington policy.
The nations of the world have mostly
forgotten a characteristic of the British
in the eighteenth century, and even
before that.
The characteristic which has reasserted
itself is Britain’s capacity for directing
world policy by strategic means and com-
pelling other people to do her fighting,
while supplying military genius, leadership
and industrial and marine resources and
know-how. . .
And Washington, on the straight issue,
is in a cleft stick. It is vital to it to defend
Western Europe, even if the nations
which it has abused and hectored there
stripped themselves completely of defence
and lay down before the Russian steam-
roller. Russia, with the power and labor
resources of Western Europe, its genius
and shipping, would be a problem too
large and too tough for even the United
States to swallow.
Moreover, the situation regarding tne
Eisenhower doctrine has become so
illusory and paradoxical that Washing-
ton appears glad to be able to merge it
into something else which will both hide
the duplicity and short-sightedness of
Mr. Dulles and the State Department and
repair relationships with the British, who
seem to be holding the initiative and
making sure that there can be no dilly-
dallying or delay which might inhibit
agreement.
So Mr. Sandys, armed with almost
dictatorial powers, advised by a Chief-
of-Staff, Air-Marshal Sir William Dick-
son, skilled in global-war strategy, is in
Washington, his objectives publicly stated,
the U.S. virtually challenged to live up to
its principles and offered the inducement
of a way out of its embarrassments caused
by its " strange intrusions to dominate
Middle Eastern and Asian policy and the
lack of enthusiasm of Congress for its
expensive plans. Westminster is acting
with swiftness and decision, obviously
aiming to get somewhere before the
Eisenhower doctrine gets before Congress
for debate.
Whether it is met with refusal of its
ideas or not, it will be in a position of
advantage for the next move. The
Eisenhower doctrine for the Middle East
is being adroitly framed into a global
doctrine before the rats get at it.
The U.S. can feel no happier (and
neither can its satellites of the U.N.
control) by the gradual whittling-away
of the high principles of Mr. Nixon’s
declared “moral equals.” Nehru a
few weeks ago was declaring that the
British and French must obey U.N. at
any cost and play the part of a champion
of self-determination. Now he is in
default with the U.N. and has had Iris
attempts to take over Kashmir inter-
dicted, after fierce debates between
Krishna Menon and the Pakistan repre-
sentative, by the Security Council’s 10-to-
nil resolution (Russia abstaining) calling
for the maintenance of the status quo in
Kashmir while the consideration of the
dispute is going on.
Mr. Nehru was deeply pained by this
brake upon his freedom of action. The
Communist bloc sought to encourage
and suborn him into overt action
through a joint visit by Chou En-lai and
Marshal Zhukov, the Russian Defence
Minister. He defied the resolution of
U.N., brought into being his new
Kashmir Constitution at midnight on
January 26 and proceeded to integrate
the Indian-held part of Kashmir in
his union as an Indian State.
It is fast becoming clear that only the
Western European nations have the
slightest regard for the principles of the
U.N. Charter or for loyalties. The rest
do what they like.
POLITICAL POINTS
Sydney “Sun” was suitably horrified
(in a front-page story headed “Insult to
the Queen”) at “a shocking cartoon
ridiculing the Queen and Princess
Margaret” which appeared in a German
paper. Describing the cartoon as a “cheap
jibe,” it pointed out that the offending
magazine could be bought at any well-
stocked British bookstall for Is. 3d.
Next afternoon the “Sun” (price 5d.)
reprinted the cartoon, using all the means
of modern telecommunication in order
to do so, and sparing no expense.
• •
Dougherty, the A.W.U.’s Big Boss,
has been slangwhanging the N. S. Wales
Parliamentary Labor party. Its members,
he says, are “a bunch of go-getters,
legal ‘experts,’ retired or not-retired
publicans, cranks or professors.” Up in
Macquarie-street the bhoys are trying to
sort themselves out. It’s fairly simple for
the lawyers' and the past and present
Bungs ; the rest have to decide whether
they’ve been called a crank or a go-getter.
Or a professor!
• •
As anticipated, the price of spuds
knocked-down the C-series index number
for the December quarter as it had
bumped it up in the preceding term —but
not so much. The Sydney drop was
4s. (compared with a rise of 11s. for the
September quarter); Melbourne, Bris-
bane and Adelaide, 3s. The index rose
by the equivalent of Is. in Hobart and
Perth, where potato-prices didn’t fluctu-
ate so much.
In N. S. Wales the effect will be to
lessen the gap between State and Federal
basic-wage rates and to knock about
£400,000 off Cahill’s expected deficit.
• •
Where does the index go from here?
The full effect of the fall in potato- and
onion-prices was not borne by the
December figure, so a slight further fall
may be expected there. On the other
hand the full upward pressure of the
September 11s. wouldn’t be felt in the
December quarter; there’d be some
degree of hangover. This again would be
somewhat offset by the latest 4s. drop.
Conjecture along these lines should keep
the prophets happily occupied for the
next three months.
• •
Border-hopping by N. S. Walesers seek-
ing free treatment in Queensland hospitals
was answered by the imposition of fees.
Then the hoppers started crossing the
border, to get cheaper petrol. Now the
flow is likely to be reversed as Queens-
land motorists decide that dearer petrol
is better than none at all.
• •
Nehru, that fervent advocate of refer-
ring all quarrels to U.N., is “deeply
pained” by the Security Council resolution
calling for the maintenance of the status
quo in Kashmir while the Council con-
siders the dispute between India and
Pakistan over the future of the State.
He" said on Friday—on the eve of the
formal incorporation of Kashmir into
the Indian Union —that the Kashmir
Constituent Assembly had finished its
work and would dissolve itself at mid-
night. Which meant in plain English that
the Security Council could jump in the
Shalimar.
The Council had passed the resolution
by 10 votes to nil. Even India’s Russian
friends didn’t oppose it; the Soviet dele-
gate merely abstained from voting.
• •
While the Security Council was dis-
cussing Kashmir, Congress chewing-over
the Eisenhower doctrine and Duncan
Sandys * preparing for talks with U.S.
defence chiefs, Pandit Nehru in Delhi
was extending his pale hands pink-tipped
to Russian Defence Minister Zhukov
and Chinese Prime Minister Chou En-lai.
The matters under discussion were
reported to be “primarily'military.”
• •
A good example of the modern
tendency to convert fees which were
originally more-or-less nominal into
revenue-producing charges is given in
the new scale of fees for registration of
factories in N. S. Wales. Until last year
the scale began at 10s. for a factory
employing not more than five persons and
£1 for “over 5 and not more than 10,
rising thereafter by £1 stages until a
100-man factory paid £6. For anything
over 100 employees the fee was £lO. The
new schedule charges ss. where the
occupier works alone; 10s. for two
employees; £1 for four. The £6 maik is
reached by the time 30 employees are
involved and the 100-man factory pays
£2O. Thereafter the sky’s the limit; the
rate increases by £lO for ‘’every
additional 50 persons or fraction of 50
persons.” The 1000-man factory thus
pays £2OO registration fee, compared with
£lO last year.
• •
Labor is not running an official candi-
date against Liberal Ben Doig in the
Burwood (N.S.W.) by-election, but will
probably give its blessing to J. A.
Cunningham, who is standing as an
Independent Labor candidate. The
Democratic Labor party is putting-up
M. F. Colreavy and there are two
Independents, H. R. Selden and E. H.
Spensley, in the field. Polling-day,
February 16.
• •
Indonesia’s Soekarno, denying reports
that he intends to set up a dictatorship,
says that what he has in mind is an
Advisory Council. He told interviewers
last week that democracy in Indonesia
could not achieve the results his Govern-
ment hoped for:
Western Parliamentary democracy, to be
successful, requires a certain amount of
literacy and a certain degree of prosperity.
Indonesia does not possess these require-
ments yet.
That’s an admission, but it doesn’t tell
the world anything it didn’t know before.
And an Advisory Council is as good a
name for a dictatorship as anything else.
THE ECONOMICS OF SPUDS
Soekarno’s new creation will be judged
by what it does, not by what he calls it.
The Seamen’s Union has declared the
new freighter Kumalla “black” because
the owners refused to fly an Australian
crew to England to bring it out. This
arrogant crowd wants to have it both
ways. When an Australian shipping
company buys a vessel abroad Comrade
Elliott and co. insist on their members
being flown abroad to man it —on full
pay and expenses from the day they leave.
The argument is that the vessel is an
Australian ship as soon as it is bought
or built and should therefore be manned
by Australian seamen —or by members
of the Australian Seamen’s Union, which
is not necessarily the same thing.
But when an Australian company sells
a vessel to a foreign buyer the Seamen’s
Union doesn’t concede the right of sea-
men of the ship’s new nationality to come
to Australia to collect it. It claims that its
members must deliver the ship (at Aus-
tralian rates of pay, to continue until they
return home). This is called international
co-operation of the workers —or some-
thing.
• •
Federal Parliament will be prorogued
soon, in preparation for the new session
scheduled to begin on March 19, and to
continue, with an Easter break, until mid-
year. When the adjournment began the
Suez crisis was still acute, and there was
no proroguing because it was thought
members might have to be summoned
quickly.
• •
Queensland Industrial Court decided
not to give effect to the 3s. fall in the
State basic wage indicated by the c.-0.-l.
figures. Reason: In October it ignored
the potato-ingredient in the index and
granted only a 4s. rise instead of the full
7s. Its policy in again ignoring the
influence of the spud is consistent with
that ruling.
• •
Seeking a reduction in the excise on
beer on the grounds that consumption
has fallen since last year’s “Little
Budget,” the Liquor Trades Union com-
plains that at the present price beer “is
almost a luxury for the working-man.”
When was it ever a necessity?
• •
The Vickers-Vimy aircraft in which
Ross and Keith Smith made the first
flight from England to Australia (in
1919) is on its way to Adelaide, where
it will find a permanent home at West
Beach airport. This time it’s going by
road.
• •
Dull, Duller, Dulles. How Dull can
you get ?


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
TTHE shop-order was for five yards
of plastic curtain; the girl assistant
walked to where the material hung on a
a roller and began to whisk it off. Two
seconds later she was lying on the floor
—out cold. First aid came from all
directions; but it was the floorwalker
who explained to me: “Electric shock.
Nothing serious, but plastic curtain
generates electricity if it’s reeled off
quickly. The girls are told that, of course,
but” he shrugged “so few young
girls will listen to Experience with a bald
head. They learn that way.”—“Fair
Mac.”
❖ ❖ *
“Apemantus”: Even though it looks,
tastes, costs and is the same, I’ll bet that
“dried skim-milk” is not so attractive a
reducing diet as “non-fat milk-powder.”
❖ ❖
“Rimutuka”: It’s time the A.B.C.
announcers checked-up on elementary
Australian history. Twice recently I
heard references to “the Commonwealth
of Australia and Tasmania.” Since when
did the Speck cease to be an Australian
State?
"I only managed to read the last chapter of your book; but I must
say I enjoyed every Word of it."
‘ Sister EUell”: Art Buchwald, the
newshound, assured us that those in the
know at Monaco were biting their nails
and keeping large kettles of water on the
stove: be it in books or on the flicks, the
tact that the stork has his landing-wheels
down is always coyly hinted-at with . . .
plenty of boiling water. There is the
hissing of steam in a big hospital; more
domestically every available saucepan, or
even the copper, is bubbling away merrily,
Outback the übiquitous kero.-tin is
, perched atop a fire in the open, usually
near the back-door. But from what I’ve
learned in getting young Australia off the
production-line, the amount of water
required is not so large. If quick’s
the work and smart the action,
then enough to wash the hands
of the accoucheur and bathe the
new arrival. If the stork is in low gear,
then, in addition to the aforementioned,
just enough to cover a pair of scissors and
piece of string in the bottom of a sauce-
pan. But with full value for six-penn’orth
of dark, via Vista-Vision, how it gets
everyone in! Myself included!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bo”: Events in Sydney over the past
few months have given plenty of proof
that, for efficacy in causing burglar or
thug to flee the scene of his evil-doing
pronto and in panic, the electronic photo-
cell beam and the clanging bell aren’t in
it compared with a simple device which
has been in use for centuries, which in-
volves no capital outlay nor installation-
cost, operates off its own built-in power-
unit, and costs nothing to run —as any
man will attest who has heard in the still
of the night a woman’s scream.
♦♦♦ <4
“Cymru”: The Reminiscences of J. L.
Toole, printed in 1889, explains the use
of “chestnut” for a frequently told story,
and attributes its authorship to a Mr.
William Warren, an American comedian.
In a melodrama called “The Broken
Sword” Captain Zavier, a sort of Baron
Munchausen, telling of his exploits, says:
“I entered the woods of Colloway, when
suddenly from the thick boughs of a
cork-tree. Pablo interrupts him with
the words, “A chestnut. Captain ; a chest-
nut.” “Bah!” replies the captain.
“Booby, I say a cork-tree! ” “A chestnut,”
reiterates Pablo. “I should know as well
as you, having heard you tell the tale
these twenty-seven times.”
❖ ►> ♦>
“Toju”: The argument whether Esther
Williams was a real film-star had been
going some time when someone remem-
bered that Fanny Brice, asked the same
question, said: “Wet she is—dry she
ain’t.”
* »:♦ *
“Badger”: “Saus” (B. 9/1/’57) makes
some vigorous but ill-advised statements.
On all well-regulated mess-decks you
should be sure of your facts before calling
anyone a liar. I won’t buy into any other
blue he may have on with A/B J. P.
O’Dowl, but in Fairmiles and H. D.M.Ls.
the coxswains were usually A/Bs. They
shared cabins with the P.O. motor-
mechanics. These cabins were fitted with
comfortable (in harbor) bunks, and bunks
were often beds to rookies. These same
cabins were provided with a chair by
pussers. Not that the furnishings were
luxurious by any means, but this
depended on the enterprise of the crewr
members. There was one ship that had a
couple of carpets on the mess-deck, and
their publican owner had no idea what
became of them! “Saus” must have had
only limited experience with the enterprise
shown by blokes in Coastal Forces. And
J. P. O’D. is still not necessarily a liar.
❖ ♦> ❖
“K.N.”: Waiting at our railway-
station, I was amazed at the number of
small posters and signs and evidences of
others long since worn away that decor-
ated the brick-wall of the subway. One
urged a “Cease Fire in Egypt,” another
referred to a film entitled “To Hell
and Back,” while a third mentioned that:
“The Safe Way Was the Railway.”
“World Peace” was advocated, evidently
by the Commos, who employed another
reading: “Defeat Menzies.” A further
indication of our democratic freedom was
"Don't forget to put him of at Bradley's corner."
one emblazoned: “No War Over Suez.”
A smaller poster advertised a local
lecture; a sign, affected by time, stated:
“Keep to the Left” (not political). But
the real gem must surely have been that
painted in large red lettering: “Bill
Posters Will Be Prosecuted.”
❖ ❖ *x*
“Aeolus”: As an example of gobblede-
gook the following instruction for mowing
grass issued by a military authority must
surely scoop the pool:
In general vegetable areas shall be
mowed at a maximum height consistent with
their current use.
Mowing schedule shall be regulated by
the amount of growth.
In other words you mow it in between
the times when it’s too long and not
short enough.
“Terzi Tuoni”: I have lately acquired
a 10-inch microgroove disk of Honegger’s
“Pacific 231”: an attempt to translate the
“emotions” of a 200-ton locomotive into
musical form. According to the jacket-
notes, Honegger says he loves trains as
other people like horses and women.
That’s not what my father says: every
time I put on the record he groans,
“There’s that damned train again!”
❖ ❖
“Q. Ree”: We are all familiar with
the descriptions of the frocks of well-
dressed women in the social columns of
city papers, but the happiest combination
of daring and tact was achieved by a
small Fiji paper which boldly described
the most attractive frocks at a ball but
discreetly omitted to say who wore them.
♦j« ❖ ❖
“Charles”: In Adelaide we were
assured by the girl in the fruitshop that
it would be all right to eat some peaches
in the park down the street —but a
policeman politely stopped us entering
the grounds of Government House. In
Perth, although the papers were home-
like with letters complaining about early-
crowing roosters, we couldn’t find any
street drinking-fountains, as in our native
Brisbane, but an obliging gardener
accommodated us by taking his hose off
a tap in Barrack-square Gardens.
*X* ❖ ❖
“Old Cynic”: I often used to wonder
what radio-audiences used to laugh at.
After seeing a few television-shows, I
still don’t know.
♦♦♦ ♦> *
“R.M.”: In World War 1 the proposal
to form an Australian Scottish unit was
wisely quashed by the Minister for the
Army. Like many other Scots, I became
Australianised on foreign soil. I served
in the first 30th Battalion. After the
war the 30th Battalion of the C.M.F. was
affiliated with the Black Watch. On
Anzac Day marches, as we have marked
the soldierly bearing of the kilties form-
ing the color-party, we could see that
their esprit de corps was of a high
standard. There used to be a long
waiting-list of men anxious to join this
N.S.W. Scottish Regiment. Now National
Service Trainees are being detailed to
serve in the unit, and some are seemingly
afraid that they might be regarded as
“The Middlesex Regiment.”
❖ ♦♦♦ *x*
“C.A.A.”: Tell “Curio” (B. 9/l/’57)
that inconsistency of nomenclature
extends to universities. We have the
Universities of Tasmania, Westralia and
Queensland; but are not the older-
established Sydney, Melbourne and
Adelaide Universities for the whole of
their respective States? There may be
some justification in N.S.W., where there
is also a University of Technology and
the New England University at Armidale,
but Melbourne and Adelaide are the only
higher centres of education in the
southern States.
❖ ❖ *
After the usual uninhibited
rush for a tram-seat at Wynyard (N.S.W.)
at 5.30 p.m., one leather seat remained
vacant, a very determined girl teenager
holding it vacant for somebody. I
would have forced the issue, but thought
it may have been for an elderly mother.
No, it was for the boy-friend—and to
his eternal credit he declined it. Another
took it, and the girl’s face was terrible
to behold. I pitied him when they got
out together—or, rather, she very much
in front.
►> ♦> >i+
“Rimutuka”: We returned to the house
we’d left locked and deserted three hours
before, to hear the electric sewing-machine
working madly. With nerves tense and
hearts thumping we crept through the
dark rooms, sure of catching the intruder
in the act, even though the key in the
front door hadn’t disturbed his furious
stitching. Dramatically we snapped on
the light, both poised to pounce, only to
see—nothing! A ghostly visitant must
have occupied the chair, with a spectral
knee on the lever, as the machine con-
tinued on its merry way, stopping only
when the plug was removed from the
point. Can anyone offer a more material
explanation?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Wallboard”: Our junior porter —
sorry, station-assistant —is one of the
few bright spots in the N.S.W.G.R. His
latest ensemble is: brown suede shoes;
uniform trousers altered to the current
peg-top style; a dangling key-chain with
a skull-and-crossbones insignia; bright
crimson shirt; the whole surmounted by
a peaked cap with a feather stuck
jauntily in the band. The most hardened
commuters paused to admire, and for
at least one morning in the year the
conversation got away from the short-
comings and high cost of our transport
system.
<* +> +X+
“Mac Hoots”: Two Sydney vets, have
kindly offered to board my cats while I
am on holidays in New Zealand for thirty-
shillings per cat per week. As I have
three cats and will be away for a month,
this works out to £lB. I rang the Union
Steamship Co. to ask what would be the
fares for the cats if I took them with
me. The single fare for a cat, they said,
is £1 14s. 9d. N.Z. currency; which in
Australian money, for three cats, return,
works out at about £l3 Os. 6d. It should
be a nice trip for the cats, too.
ODE
(I.M. Melbourne “Argus,” aged 111 years.)
How sleep those Papers, sunk to Rest,
By all their Rivals’ Wishes blest!
Their Headlines are no longer trolled
By Boys with dewy Fingers cold
On Streets of Truth that grows more odd
Than Fancy’s Feet have ever trod.
By workless Hands their Knell is rung,
By Stocks and Shares their Dirge is sung;
There Honor comes, a Pilgrim grey,
Who might in Life have stayed away.
And Freedom shall awhile repair
To dwell, invoked so often there.
Is there some heavenly Address
That harbors the departed Press?
Where Advertisers are taboo
And every Piece of News is true?
Where those who Leaders do indite
Are always proved exactly right?
Where Murder never soils the Page ?
Where Woman gives her proper Age ?
Where Racing Tipsters must not lie ?
Where Cliches do not live to die ?
Where Mud of Slander never sticks
On Marriage or on Politics?
It may be so. I cannot tell.
I only know it would not sell.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


OUR son, aged 15, requested per-
mission to attend a rock-’n’-roll show
at the Brisbane Stadium. Consent was
given with deep misgivings, and only
after it was agreed that 1 go along as
well. First surprise was that the majority
of people there didn’t look abnormal.
Second one was the hard work put in by
the performers on a hot night in a poorly-
“He Wont talk”
ventilated building. Third was that I
rather liked it. —“Quantum.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Lorna Doone”: “Alma’s” bus-driver
(B. 16/1 /’57) had many a counterpart in
Sydney. Just after the war, careering
along in the model which covers part of
Sydney’s waterfront, the only passenger,
and getting my fair share of the bumps,
I said to the conductor, “Whatever^ is the
driver doing with this contraption?” Said
he airily, “Oh, don’t worry, lady ; he's
lately discharged from the Spitfires —
that’s his trouble!”
♦3* ♦*«
“Falco”: When bushfires hit us, young
Workshy rushed to the other side of the
Village, where fires were worst, he said.
The bunch of oldies left to cope at our
end had a tough time dragging the
missus and kids out of Workshyville and
saving the house. They were sourly
dressing their wounds and downing coid
tea when Workshy was upon them
sputtering with joy. He’d saved the tin-
hare dog-man’s kennels ; he’d dragged
an s.p. betting-baron’s car to safety.
“Who says I won’t be in the big money
after this little hunch?” chortled
Workshy. Only their smoke-inflamed
eyes said what the oldies hoped he’d
be in.
* ❖ *
“Rimutuka”: How they lure you up
a tree, then chop it down while you’re in
it! One of Brisbane’s drive-in theatres
does it with: “Even in the first wild joy
of her arms he knew there had been
another man. Arrive early. Try our
Bar-B-Q.”
»*♦ ♦> ❖
“Tom Trout”: Appropriately near
Australia House in the Strand, London, a
plaque records the “first pre-announced
broadcast of public entertainment in the
world”—on June 15, 1920, when “Dame
Nellie Melba sang from Marconi's
Chelmsford works.” So our Melba was
the first of that long line of mike-warblers
which descends right down (how far!) to
Elvis the Pelvis! And I bet Elvis wouldn’t
swap cheques with her!
*:♦ ❖
“A.J.S.”: Had always been under the
impression that although “Banjo Pater-
son wrote “Waltzing Matilda in the
1890's it didn’t become popular till the
1930’s and during World War 11. But
reading Ann Buchan’s (sister of John
Buchan) Unforgettable, Unforgotten,
published in 1945, I came across this:
John [who had been on Lord Milner s
staff in South Africa] came home in
September, 1903, and with the family once
more united we had many an evening sing-
song of all the popular songs including <
“Waltzing Matilda,” which John had
heard the Australian soldiers singing, and
brought home to us;
and her further comment: “It seems
strange to hear it again this war. How
many of the old Bushmen’s Contingent
remember singing the song back in 1900-
1901, and what happened to it during the
next 30 years?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: All these art- and wildflower-
exhibitions will doubtless lead to the
“new banking” practised by Mid-West
banks of the U.S.A., where, as with
“cocky’s day” in Australia, all the farm-
ing folk come to town on one day of the
week. Displays were arranged in the
banking-chambers; one involved the
bedding-down of a champion cow on the
tiled floor. Other displays were more in
the nature of harvest-festivals ; one bank
put on a sit-down dinner for their custo-
mers. The possibility of popping in on
the head-office of the ’Wales for a free
beer across the counter while you change
a fiver is too beautiful for dreams ; but,
being a bank, I suppose they’d put you
through the ledgers first —or no free beer.
♦> * ❖
“Ranger”: A New Australian in the
next bed was being examined by the
medico, ward-Sister at heel, for a
suspected gastric ulcer. That morning
Giacomo had submitted to a “fractional, ’
better known among ulcer-patients as
“swallowing the snake,” without apparent
“Now ME — I always get the impulse to chuck somebody WITH me!"
inter'est, and certainly without protest.
When, however, instructions were given
to Sister for the usual barium-meal
prelude to X-ray examination, the patient
broke into a voluble spate of Italo-Aussie
objection, and it took some time to satisfy
him that Doc. had only prescribed barium,
and had not directed the starched young
lady to “bury ’im.”
*X* *X* ***
“T.A.C.’ 1 : Queensland is suffering
restrictions on its revised rail schedule.
There may be something in the sugges-
tion that fewer trains will result in fewer
smashes.
***
“Apemantus”: Since the adoption of
standard letter-numeral identification-
plates Westralian motorists don’t yell
abuse at other drivers or at pedestrians.
Their plates do it for them with remarks
like “U.D.F.” or “U.D.L.” or “U.D.M.”
Taxis say “U.A.8.” I’ll shoot the shoes
off the first one calling me “U. 8.8.”
❖
“Bellfield”: Correction, “’Ermit,”
William Henry-street in Ultimo is not a
full-name street (B. 2/1 / ’57), although it
neariv is. Harris-street would complete
the monicker William Henry-street
crosses it. William Henry Harris was a
grandson of the Dr. Harris who founded
Ultimo. The doc. called his estate Ultimo
in elation at having won a law-suit on the
technical point of “instant” having been
used instead of “ultimo.” Mary Ann was
a granddaughter ; the street named after
her also runs off Harris-street—-at the
corner of the Museum of Applied Arts
and Sciences (“The Tech, to us).
*t* ❖
“Maitri”: An old clergyman, a notable
Shakspearian scholar, seldom attended
stage-versions of the Bard’s works: his
interest was purely literary. A learned
society had published his penetrating
study of “Romeo and Juliet” which had
been recognised as quite a solid contribu-
tion When a fellow-enthusiast ran into
him at the close of a Sydney performance
of that drama, he asked the old boy what
he’d thought of the show, “Excellent,
was the response, “though 1 had no idea
it ended so tragically.”
♦X* »! 4
“Wandana”: Sorry I. can’t help you
out, “Ess” (B. 2/1/’57), with a name for
the designer of a Channel tunnel and its
railway-tickets —he may get him into the
“peridromophily” (collecting of railway-
tickets) class. I’m looking for a title for
a collector of cheese labels. He lives at
Cuffley, in England, and during the last
two years has collected 7000 specimens
which decorated various types of cheese.
Tslow he’s looking for some of the more
obsolete type, as well as new labels, to
add to his collection, and hopes to get a
few from Down-under. Will these
hobbies induce the Taxation people to
introduce export- or import-duties on
valuable matchbox labels, bottle-cork
tops, sardine-tin labels, and so forth?
How does the philatelist get on over
Customs duty, when handling pricey
stamps?
♦> ❖
“Cygnet”: What happens to' the thou-
sands of used typewriter-ribbons? Even
my own little portable has accumulated
a boxful, ohzing out untidily, and although
the reels make handy children’s toys I’ve
not been able to turn the ribbons to prac-
tical use. Firms tell me they’re no good
for re-inking; I’ve tried them out for
tying-up flower- and tomato-bushes; with
indifferent success ; the wife had a shot at
boiling-down half-a-dozen for dye, but
says she’d rather spend a couple of bob
at the shop on the real article. One man
I. know makes his own ink from the
purple ribbons. A hot iron run over
used carbon-paper restores its vitality for
a-further short term of service—an office
firm gave me that tip, but the ribbons
they had no prescription for.
♦I«
“Scotty”: The mantle of authority
seems to have been ripped off Teacher and
draped on the radio-announcer. One of
them introduced a record as Handel’s
“Large-oh” this morning. Junior scoffed
at Mum’s protest —“He would know!”
Well, he changed his mind and called it
“Lar-go” at the end of the record, and
another idol bit the dust.
♦j» 's*
“Curate’s Egg”: I’ve met a lot of men
whose career-failure can fairly be blamed
on John Barleycorn ; now I’ve met an up-
and-arrived young executive who assigns
his run of successes to getting drunk when
faced with his first major problem. He
explained that he had first attracted the
attention of the higher-ups by a report
which, in their estimation, reflected keen
analytical ability and extraordinary
clarity of expression. He had got drunk
in desperation over a problem, its solu-
tion came to him when he was com-
pletely under the weather, and the report
setting it out had been written while he
was still exhilarated. Using the same
formula with successive problems
produced further promotions, and the
continuing success gave him confidence to
put himself on paper without alcoholic
stimulus; nowadays he’s a virtual
teetotaller.
❖ ❖ ❖
“F.S.”: Through the Felton Bequest
the Melbourne Gallery has acquired the
greatest collection of Albrecht Diirer’s
engravings and drawings apart from
those in the London Museum and the
Berlin Gallery. They cost £45,000 sterling.
Differ was the third of eighteen children
of a Nuremberg goldsmith, and had
enough industry for all the others. The
collection will be on show this year along
with the gallery’s collection of William
Blake’s drawings, which are also in the
world-class.
THE ASTRAL TOUCH
“Sagittarius rules the human hips, and as you
approach maturity many of your Sign accumu-
late extra weight there." —Asvologist Cano
Righter in Melbourne “Sun.”
Don’t be modest and assume
That you’re insignificant.
Whether you're Aussie, Briton or
Brazilian,
From the cradle to the tomb
An influence dominant
Rules you, and you but one of many
a million.
Aeons before you hit this earth
Stars had plotted out your course
Of life —tinker and tailor and
geologist.
But the one that sets the girth
Of your beam’s that potent force
Sagittarius. For proof, there s our
astrologist!
If you've arms as straight and thin
As a pogo-stick ; and feet
Needing shoes the size of ukulele-
cases ;
A neck that has a twin ;
Sloping shoulders that will beat
All efforts to hang on ’em pair of
braces ;
If you’ve knobbly sort of knees
Sticking out somewhat askew
On props your friends describe as
“legs-elevens” —
Your dejection you may ease
With this thought: these trials aren’t
due
■ To baleful influence up in the
heavens.
But those hips so like a snake’s;
Shapely ones s’uch as you see
Embellishing the scene on summer
beaches ;
Hips that need the use of fakes
To beat angularity;
Ones that women try to wriggle into
breeches ;
Those that spread across two seats
In a train, and squash you flat
Against the side: these, wonderfully
various —
Source of curses and conceits —
They were handed out by that
Indiscriminating star, old Sagittarius!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Sir Ivan Holyman (passed on at 60
in Honolulu) was a pioneer of civil
aviation who saw the little air-service he
and his brother Victor started between
Launceston and Flinders Island grow
into the great modern airline A.N.A., of
which he was chairman and managing-
director. Unlike many men who have
IVAN HOLYMAN, as sketched by
Frith in 1936
made great names in various fields; his
pioneering spirit was undimmed by years
or success. After War II he made a bold
bid to establish A.N.A. as an oversea
airline, starting the Sydney-San Francisco-
Vancouver service (taken over by
B. and, later, by Qantas); Cathay
Pacific was another ambitious project.
He was also keen to start services between
Melbourne and Christchurch (N.Z.) and
Sydney and South America. With typical
enthusiasm he took up the Air Beef
Scheme, a large-minded project with
potentialities yet hard to assess for the
Kimberleys (W.A.), and started a similar
project on one of the Bass Strait islands.
He was a First World War M.C,
• •
Another young Melbourne actor has
blossomed out as a playwright—Richard
Beynon, playing the leading role in the
hunt-the-slipper play “Witness for the
Prosecution” at the Princess ; he has won
the Sydney Journalists’ Club’s £250
award for the best Australian-written
play. It’s about Italian New Australians
in a working-class home in Colling-
wood, and in one respect is following
the path of Ray Lawler’s “Summer of
the 17th Doll” —a try-out at the Union
Theatre, Melbourne, before being
launched at the Elizabethan Theatre,
Sydney.
• •
John McGhee, who won the “Sydney
Morning Herald” novel-prize, is
managing-director of Blackwood Hodge
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd., the Australian branch
of a British concern making earthmoving-
equipment; he lives in Sydney. Bulletin
short-story writer Hal Porter, who runs
a lending-library at Bairnsdale (Vic.),
won the short-story competition.
Robert Clark, who collected the poetry-
prize, is an Adelaide solicitor.
• •
Eight-hundred new classrooms last
financial year, 500 more coming-up this
year . . . mollified, modified, applause
goes to the Victorian Government. But
look for the man most constructively con-
cerned and you find A. H. Ramsay,
Director of Education; otherwise, Major-
General Alan Hollick Ramsay, C. 8.,
C. D. 5.0., E.D., B.Sc., Dip. Ed.,
highly-trained and practised in the art
of destruction as a gunner in two wars.
Stocky, bluff but bland, clear-thinking,
direct-speaking, he has it all on a cam-
paign basis. A dozen apposite cliches
from gunners’ talk would describe his
methods, but he doesn’t deal in cliches.
In the war he had to wait, and plan, and
build-up his forces (he got his D.S.O. for
the way he commanded his guns at
Alamein), and after the war he had to
wait, plan, build, through all the shifts
of politics, to make up the accommoda-
tion-leeway lost through the war-years.
He standardised, specialised in types of
buildings for various purposes and areas.
The need, of course, was more urgent
because migration has been adding many
thousands of children to the natural
school-increase of 17,000 to 18,000 a year.
Ramsay is a disciplined man who can
keep discipline in its place and proper
perspective. The other day at Melbourne
High School, where he was headmaster
tor three years before his present appoint-
ment, he urged school-leaving boys to be
adventurous in their way of life. “ ‘Safety-
first’ is a poor motto for young men in
Australia today,” he said.
• •
Passed on in Melbourne, Mrs. Bruce
Campbell, better known as Grace Wilson,
principal matron of 3 A.G.H. Egypt,
Lemnos and France, and temp. Matron-
in-Chief in War I, in which she was
“mentioned” five times; C.8.E., R.R.C.
and Florence Nightingale Medal, 1919.
Matron-in-Chief A.A.N.S. in War 11, she
had been matron of Brisbane General
Hospital, Rosemount Military Hospital,
Brisbane, and Melbourne’s Children’s
Hospital and Alfred Hospital. She led
the A.I.F. Nurses’ Contingent at the
Coronation in 1937. i
• •
Kashmir being in the news again—
last Thursday the United Nations
Security Council heard India’s refusal of
a free plebiscite—the subject naturally
arose during an interview with Lieut.-
General Mohammad Yusuf Khan, the
new Pakistan High Commissioner. With
soldierly brevity the soldier-turned-
diplomat said what might be expected
(Pakistan’s case has been well aired over
the years), and then pointed to the map
which nearly covers one wall of his Pitt-
street (Sydney) office, in which the green
of West and East Pakistan shows vividly
against other territories; like that, the
essentially frontier-character of Pakistan
DIPLOMACY
is dramatised. India in the middle,
Afghanistan,'Tibet, China and Burma as
near-neighbors. Pakistan is a poor
country, and much development-work
remains to be done; in agriculture,
industry, social-services and in education,
“the key to all improvement.” But
here, Mahommad Yusuf Khan said, was
his country’s dilemma: “Sixty per cent,
of the Budget has to go into defence.”
The High Commissioner comes of
martial stock. He is an Afridi, born 60
miles from the Khyber Pass. He went
to Sandhurst (a son is there now), then
into the old Indian Army. Served with
several famous cavalry regiments, includ-
ing Probyn’s Horse, was with cavalry-
mechanised, this time —under Slim in
Burma, and is very much a horseman.
He looks like one, even behind a desk.
And he is a keen polo-player. One
knew, in a general way, that polo
originated in that part of the world ;
the Pakistan High Commissioner pointed
out the exact locality: Gilgit, a small
place, where they still play according to
ancient rules, and have goal-posts of
stones. No game for sissies!
. • •
Scored his century on January 10, the
day the thermometers were knocking-up
centuries all over Westralia, Walter
Mattie, one of the few survivors of the
men who pioneered the State’s eastern
goldfields. Born in Ireland, he hit
Kalgoorlie in 1893, when the place was
still called Hannan’s —Patrick Hannan
had discovered the field a few months
before. A real prospector, Walter looked
for the elusive stuff on many fields, never
worked for wages, never made a big
strike, but was able to get ahead, and to
afford a couple of trips to Ireland. He
prospected up to three years ago.
Mr. Justice
Wolff, Senior
Puisne Justice of
the Supreme Court
of Western Aus-
tralia (caught here
with his wig off by
Dubois), visited
Sydney for the
dual-purpose of
interviewing appli-
cants for the post
of Director of
the Westralian
Museum and
selecting black-
and-white originals
from The
Bulletin strong-
room for a special
exhibition at the
W.A. Art Gallery.
As president of
the Museum and
Art Gallery Trust
he’s vitally con-
cerned with both
chores. Applica-
tions for the
Museum job have
come from several
States and over-
seas —the trustees
have raised the
salary to that of a
professor. The
drawings to be
exhibited range in
period from 1890
to now; artists
represented include
“Hop,” Lambert,
B. E. Minns,
Leason, Norman, Lionel and Percy
Lindsay, Low, Souter, Alf Vincent, Sid
Miller, Tom Glover, Arthur Mailey,
Finey, Lahm, Ted Scorfield, Hal Gye,
Unk White, Hetherington (Heth),
Rufus Morris, Frith, Dubois and
Coventry.
• •
Many a vicar, no doubt, has an
ambition to become a bishop; but
Bishop Donald Redding, of Bunbury
(W.A.), wanted to become a vicar. So
he takes-over from Rev. C. R. Tidmarsh
as vicar of the burnt-out St. Mary’s
Church, South Camberwell (Vic.), at the
same time retaining his title of Bishop.
No stranger to Victoria (he was vicar of
St. Andrew’s, Brighton, in the Melbourne
diocese), he’s also served many years in
South Australia, and scored an M.B.E.
for his work as chaplain in War 11. He’s
keen on parish work, and anxious to get
back into the thick of it; hence his
decision to step-down.
• •
Many Australians probably hadn’t
heard of the Wallace Clark Award before
Sydney management-consultant Walter
Scott acquired it the other day.
Regrettable, but not altogether surprising,
since this is the first time the distinction has
come to these shores and (like the English,
French and Americans) we tend to
parochialism concerning other people’s garlands.
Scott, born in Perth (in 1903) and educated
at Perth Modern School, is anything but
parochial. Drew his first pay-envelopes from
shipping-firms P. and O. and Macdonald
Hamilton, was accounting in N.S.W. apd
timber-costing in Victoria and Queensland in
the early ’thirties, moved into management-
consulting in 1935. War II involved him in
munitions, first as finance-member on the
MANAGEMENT
N.S.W. Board of Area Management, later as
deputy-chairman. Now he exports guidance,
imports European and American specialists m
the latest industrial techniques. He’s been
Federal and N.S.W. president of the Australian
Institute of Management, finds time to sit on
the boards of firms like Jantzen, Bertel, and
Newston Colliery, like his famous namesake
writes books (but about budgetaiy control,
cost-accounting, greater production; a new one,
Australia in the World of Change, is well on the
way), and relaxes at tennis and with a camera,
plans to play bowls. And he’s on a four-man
committee (other members are from L).S., U.tv.
LAW
and Holland) which meets annually to pool
knowledge and X-ray new ideas.
Sheet-anchor of industrial guidance on a
global scale is C. 1.0.5. (International Com-
mittee of Scientific Management) with head-
quarters in Geneva. C. 1.0.5. comprises repre-
sentatives of 33 nations, and has a three-man
committee at top. Yes, Scott is one of the
three. Among 2000 businessmen attending a
C. 1.0.5. conference in Paris next June, 60 to
100 will be Australians. A conference is
planned for Australia in I96o—Scott reckons it
will be a bigger thing for this country than
the Games.
The Wallace Clark Award is made by a com-
mittee elected by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, the American Manage-
ment Association, the Association of Con-
sulting Management Engineers, and the Society
for the Advancement of Management; trustees,
Council for International Progress in Manage-
ment, a body to which the U.S. Government
looks for guidance in international projects. To
qualify for the award a man must have made
“a X distinguished contribution .to scientific
management in the international field” and
have “achieved a type of recognition which
exemplifies generous sharing of an ideology
which points to a better world life.”
Scott, a solid six-feet-odd in a lightweight
suit, talked about incentive-payments, higher
living-standards, beating disease, longer life.
Question: “Won’t lengthened life-spans crowd
industry at the top with old men and keep
the younger men down?” Answer: “We’re
starved at the top for leaders because the men
with the know-how die too soon.”
• •
Retired after 37 years With the
Victorian police, Superintendent Alex
Martin, fingerprint expert. He made the
Victorian fingerprint department one of
the best in the world, and his book on
fingerprinting is a standard textbook in
many countries. He received 24
commendations during his years of
duty.
• •
Zoologist Dr. Hanz Felten, of Sencken-
berg Museum, Frankfurt, is on a five-
month tour of the Westralian north-west
and the Northern Territory, looking for
bats. Dr. Felten says that little is known
about Australian bats.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 65, Alick Scott Osborne,
former general-manager of the Commercial
Banking Company of Sydney, Ltd. He retired
last October after 49 years with the bank,
10 of them as g.-m. He was chairman of the
Australian Bankers’ Association in 1955, and
at all times of his career a very fine chap.
In Melbourne, at 64, Louis Monod, 0.8. E.,
from 1932 to 1953 secretary and chief executive
officer of the Royal Agricultural Society ol
Victoria.
In Brisbane, at 75, O. J. Persky, owner and
founder of Persky’s Wire Works in South Bris-
bane. He began the business in 1908 with a pair
of pliers and a piece of wire; its goods now
go all over Australia.
In Melbourne, at 77, John Newman Morris,
K. 8., C.M.G., M. 8., F.R.A.C.S., F.A.C.S.,
founder of the Red Gross National Blood
Transfusion Service. Member of the National
Council of Red Cross for many years, chairman
from 1944 to 1951.
In Sydney, at 71, Wally Webb, for many
years president of Eastern Suburbs Rugby
League club, manager of the Kangaroos in their
1933-34 tour of England. Till recently he was
secretary of the Racing Owners and Trainers
Association.
In Melbourne, at 80, F. S. Howes, organist
and choirmaster at several Melbourne C. of b.
churches; he was at St. Mark’s, Fitzroy, for
more than 20 years, and back in l»9l
fJanuarv 22) had been boy-soloist at the
consecration and opening of St. Pau s
Cathedral. He wrote a booklet, History of the
Choir of St. Paul’s Cathedral, Melbourne.


w
CJn.£ Tti/hiQ.
A ®oo r
T
l T s
T «£ KtMp ' J
p Har Wtathek^
Z\j£Q/ON£ SAyS
riiE y p on - T m
r
o<)H£sl ITS
TtoMip !
METEOROLOGICAL


ABORIGINALITIES
I notice that a bloke
gets a bit of a trot. This enables
him to pack them on the hip until he is
either sitting pretty or holding well.
Sometimes the trot lasts until he has a
roll that Jack Rice couldn’t jump over,
is sitting behind it in a big way, and is
credited with having had more luck than
Tyson. But neither his wife nor the
Commissioner of Taxation will ever per-
suade him to admit that he has actually
made any money.—“ Retired Bagman.”
* * * *
“Wint”: The aged, clock on the wall
of the old bloke’s coastal shack was rusty
and battered, and minus hands. A cryptic
notice underneath read: “Beachcomber’s
Time!”
* * * *
“Metax”: The opened gate was the
usual invitation for the cows to come in
for the morning milking. But there were
no takers. Then we saw why. They were
all standing around, rather as if forming
a guard over the body of the old draught-
mare which had spent its years of retire-
ment wandering the paddocks among
them. They refused to leave, too, until a
tractor came and dragged their late old
mate away.
* * * *
Tabba”: I’m usually as quick as the
other fellow to slate the railways, but a
few days before Christmas, with the
Collinsville-Bowen road cut, I had decided
to truck my car out and arranged with
the' Collinsville stationmaster to load at
10.30 a.m. on the Saturday. Following
delay at the mine I rolled up to the station
at 12.15, a few minutes before scheduled
train-time, to find a truck waiting at the
loading-ramp. Station staff willingly
helped and got the truck on to the train.
At Merindah the train-crew shunted off
three trucks so that owners could unload
their cars (at about 5 p.m.) instead of
waiting over the weekend. Might not
be strictly union, but it strikes me as a
friendly way to run a railway.
* * * *
“N. 8.”: Charlie was a free-spending
grazier, but times weren’t as lush as of
yore. When asked in town how he was
going he jerked a thumb towards the
bright new bank-premises: “I’m just a
boundary-rider for the brick building.”
“Miss M.”: Closer-settlement has
brought to our district a new system of
nomenclature. The old stations, or rem-
nants thereof, are knbwn by their original
titles, but we seldom bother to learn the
names of the newer properties. They
are simply “Brown’s” or “Smith’s.” When
Jones, a city businessman, bought Yarran-
lea he subdivided and sold most of it,
including the old homestead-block. He
made the proviso that the famous old
name was to be retained for his own
portion, and painted it on his new mail-
box. The purchaser of the old homestead,
feeling it would be a pity to change the
name which had been associated with that
site for 120 years, just stencilled “Old”
above the “Yarranlea” on his mailbox.
The two boxes are on the same road
and not far apart, so fbr a time confusion
reigned. We soon sorted them out. The
old place is Yarranlea, as it always has
been; the other is “Jones’s.” .
* * * *
“8.W.”: Those potato-plants which
“produced at both ends” (B. 26/12/’56)
are not unique. For several years I have
grown a type of shallot which regularly
doubles its bulbs- and in addition sports
a seed-stem which, after the flowering-
stage, develops into a bunch of aerial
bulblets which continue to grow from
stored juice after the bulbs are har-
vested. These later sprout green tips, and,
planted after the first winter-rains, grow
into bulbs in the ordinary way. Other
top-and-bottom producers include garlic
and several liliums.
* * t *
“Emel”: There’s still time for people
in irrigation-areas to help the water-
conservation authorities in their campaign
against yabbies, whose, burrowing causes
so much damage to channel-banks befoie
they retire under the mud for the winter.
Yabbie-tails make a succulent dish, and a
Nhill (Vic.) owner is going in for catch-
ing ’em in a big way, satisfying at the
same time his palate and his determina-
tion to save precious water. He has built
himself a circular revolving-table, Set up
on rollers on his lawn. It holds a wheat
bag of cooked yabbies, for the delectation
of his family and a lot of yabbie-loving
friends.
* * * *
“Angus Bob”: The review of Victor
MacClure’s Good Appetite My Com-
panion (B. 9/1 /’57) mentions steak cooked
on a spade. In Scotland, many years ago,
I travelled in a small coastal steamer. The
passage included one night at sea. I was
bqoked as a deck-passenger, which meant
precisely what it said, and towards 4 a.m.
the deck was decidedly chilly. I got matey
with a fireman who had come up for a
breather and he took me down to the
warmth of the stokehold and invited me
The Water-diviner.
to share a meal. I contributed my store
of sandwiches ; he wiped a shovel, placed
a piece of steak on it and pushed it some-
where under a furnace. When the steak
was done to a turn, and a little more, it
was the night’s special.
* *■ * *
“Brick E.”: The description of Rouse
Hill House (B. 9/1 /’57) interested me very
much, but experience has made me rather
cynical about those wide “solid, stone
walls,” even though they were built by
convicts. The Girls’ Reformatory at
Parramatta was built by convicts ; in fact,
authoress Kylie Tennant claimed it to be
the infamous Women’s Factory, although
many historians do not agree. Whether
or not, the walls in its basement are 3ft.
thick, and I once fell for the job of
cutting through them to put in two venti-
lators. The foreman and architect
haggled-out the cost allowable for this
extra, the archi. finally conceding that it
could take two days to cut through each
hole. When I reported one finished in
three hours the trump frantically ordered
me down below and out of sight until the
architect had gone. Those walls —where
I cut through, anyway—were merely faced
with stones about 6in. thick, and the
middle filled-in with weak mortar and
rubble-waste.
* # * *
“Miss M.”: The kurrajong in the
garden was almost completely • hemmed-
in, there being just sufficient room to fell
it between the power-lines and Mum’s
prized cabbages. Dad studied the pro-
blem with great care, even co-opting
eldest son’s trigonometry to decide where
each cut should be made. As an extra
precaution the tractor was placed outside
the fence with a line attached to the top
of the tree, to pull it in the right direction
at the crucial moment. They were so
engrossed in placing their cuts that they
were taken by surprise when the tree
started to topple. They rushed for the
tractor, but before they could reach it
the tree had fallen plumb centre—of the
cabbage-bed. Their reflexes worked like
lightning. As one man they leapt aboard
the tractor, cast-off the rope and vanished
into the scrub, not to return till late that
night, by when Mum’s temper had had a
chance to cool-off.
* * * *
“Mulloway”: An occasional visitor to
our s.-Q. home is the six-legged sea-lizard.
Like the small house-gecko, it will cling
upside-down to the ceiling. Its belly, legs
and feet are striped in two tints of blue,
and its back is white. It can swim a slow
back-stroke, using all legs in unison, but
even if it has any sense! of direction it can
make no headway against wind and
current. In company with other surface
“blues” of the open ocean —the blue-
bottle and the smaller disk-shaped Porpita
—these creatures sometimes come drift-
ing in with the summer nor’-easters and
then the high-tide limit along the beach
is marked with a blue line of thousands
of their bodies. Of course this beautiful
little nudibranch, Glaucus, is not really a
lizard, but it seems to have just as much
right to its common name of “sea-lizard”
as the sea-wasp, sea-nettle, sea-cow, sea-
elephant, and dozens of other creatures
have to theirs.
* * * *
“Woorarra”: Peculiar the hostility
shown by many birds towards that dove-
grey aristocrat, the black-faced cuckoo-
shrike. So far as I can see the falsely
named fowl molests nobody, yet I have
seen it assailed by normally mild birds,
even in non-breeding seasons. Maybe
the resemblance to a cuckoo noted by
humans has also been observed by avians.
Though the blue-jay—as the bird is usually
called—builds a neat-looking nest,
its craftsmanship must be defective, as 1
have frequently known the flat structure
collapse while in use. However, the bird
seemingly overtakes losses thus caused by
nesting often and must be counted one of
our most prosperous species. The large
black area round head and neck, so pro-
minent on adult birds, is greatly reduced
in juveniles, and some W.A. observers at
one time reckoned the latter were a
separate species.
* * * *
THINK of all the country you’ve been
over, and try to name any district
which hasn’t at least a couple of black-
and-white birds any time the year round.
Maggies and Billy the Wag have covered
the range of my own wanderingsit’s a
pretty dry stretch that doesn’t support
a few peewees; and the black-throated
butcher’s territory is wide. In season our
valley welcomes back another of the
pied fowl, and another comes along a
week or two later. The little chap first
pegging out his claim is the hooded robin ;
a quiet little fellow with a head so black
that the beady jet eye is lost in it unless
your glasses are good. Slightly bigger
than the red-breasted robins, he is less
vocal —the only place I’ve \heard him
singing by the hour is out where the belts
of mulga are carpeted with golden
goodenia—and who wouldn’t sing there?
The other pied migrant is the white-
winged triller, a delightful songster who
never waits for an encore; the melody
just flows on. The name is a bit of a
mouthful, but better than the one he
carried formerly white-shouldered
caterpillar-eater. Not unlike a miniature
pee wee, the triller in due course fits
a skimpy nest into an ironbark fork,
afterwards taking over -patrol of the
nearest garden that may harbor green
cabbage-grubs ; a job which, incidentally,
was ably handled during his winter
absence by the unobtrusive cuckoo-
shrikes. —“Wippegong.”
BLACKBOY
A prehistoric porcupine,
the lion and the unicorn
are in the oddest tree that was ever green
—and Strewell Peter’s upended hair.
You can see them there,
or at least the horn and mane
on a highly combustible trunk
the bushfire could not burn ;
and the fine roots are sunk
in land that does not earn
too well.
And yet how much this tree could tell.
This biackboy of some hundred years
and ten to fifteen feet —
unless you care to meet
the babies clustered round the seers,
and they’re like ballet girls,
all loops and swirls
of hula skirts fading as the train goes by,
as years will go
while they just stay and grow.
I’d like to talk to that Old Man there
so quiet against the sky,
yet so austere, bizarre,
as though he lived another life,
indeed, would never try
to live in ours, so strangely rife
with speed.
By him it rushes every day,
even overhead he hears it go.
He does not heed.
For him the world is slow,
rooted in the years
when through his reeds the camp-smoke
sifted
and blackmen drifted,
not from men of alien way,
but keen-eyed sought the track
of ’roo and lizard or alien black.
Who tomorrow were not there,
when the silence was the air,
bird broken as day flies,
and heat as living as the sun
died in a flame
as bush died to come again.
Biackboy is the same
to the day of the plane.
“Which you do not care for,
do not prepare for,
do you, Old Man,
lost in your growth
as in the bush ?” Both
are content with what they are;
they have no wish to own a car.
Far less—
though roots in the ground
are firmer than the pound,
and what ah Old Man can express!
W.A.
OLIVE PELL.


THE “off-white” Queensland shearing-
outfit, branded as “scabs,” were asked
to explain by the local strike-
committee. Certainly; they’d been
on that particular sheep-property
doing contract post-cutting. They
produced evidence: signed agree-
ments, cheques, receipts, impartial eye-
witnesses, their own two hard and
calloused hands. A good case. Verdict:
Not guilty. Months later drunken babble
spoke of improvised sheds in the hills at
the back of the run, of 7 p.m. to 3 a.m.
shifts with the shears seven nights a
. .and don't forget—Abo crispies for breakfast, or else!”
week, of hooded lights, of yards of old
hose used to muffle engine-exhausts.
Just talk, of course. —“Wester.”
* * * *
“Mackville”: The windstorm had torn
a piece of ridge-capping from the roof
and was flapping the loose end around like
a long ribbon ; on the brick gable imme-
diately below a much smaller object was
being tugged and whirled and pivoted
madly—the cocoon of a case-moth. The
ridge-capping finally tore free and was
swirled away, but the cocoon remained
fast. It is still there. I had previously
watched the type of grub dragging its
stick-and-silk cocoon over rough ground
and up walls, two front legs and the
mouth apparently supplying the motive-
power ; when it decided to stay put the
inmate seemed to pull its head in and
seal the aperture to the anchorage. 1
have a mighty respect now for the strength
of the gum it uses. Nature, too, must
have faith in it, or she wouldn’t inspire
the creature to laboriously drag its burden
up a wall 25ft. high, where it would be
exposed to strong winds.
He * * *
“Nulla”: To an Australian it’s strange
to see earmarking done in the U.S. with
a knife, which is illegal here. 1 don’t
know if earmarking-pliers are known
over there, but their use is certainly not
universal in that advanced country. In
fact, to our eyes, a cowboy’s methods in
general, like his dress and equipment,
smack of the circus or show-ring, besides
seeming, at times, unnecessarily hard on
both horses and cattle.
*'* * *
“Birdwatcher”: Came out into the
garden to see a young bush-thrush, which
often obligingly gets out of the bird-bath
to let anothet bird have a drink and then
returns to finish his leisurely ablutions,
lying on the lawn, head on one side, beak
wide open, having, or pretending to have,
a snooze, just as if it had been taking
lessons from the cat or dog next door.
Any explanations?
* * * *
“Bass”: In an account of the sighting
of a Tasmanian wolf a Perth paper
described it as about as big as an Alsatian.
That would be a mighty big thylacine, and
the comparison could be misleading.
Thylacine, although game, and a killer,
is still a marsupial, equipped for hunting
other marsupials. He’s got a reputation
for ferocity, and he is savage,
but, lacking the cunning of the fox and
the speed and power of the dog, he had
reached the point of extinction on the
mainland when the white settlers came
to finish the job. He persisted in Tas-
mania, along with his camp-follower the
Tasmanian devil, because they reached
there before the sea entered Bass Strait
and stopped the dingo.
* * * •
“8.A.K.”: The dog that saves his
master’s life after an accident is the hero
of hundreds of bush-yarns, some
authentic, others somewhat decorated.
But, dog-lover though I am, I must submit
that a man injured in a vehicle-accident
would be leaning on a weak reed if he
relied on his canine passenger to rise
to the occasion. Unlike a horse, a dog
can go through flood or fire without
giving way to blind panic ; he may be
frightened, but at least he senses he is
merely experiencing some extreme of
Nature. The shock of a vehicular-smash,
however, is something beyond his powers
of comprehension, and, unless badly
hurt, he immediately yields to an uncon-
trollable urge to run blindly, madly,
while he still has the strength.
* * * *
“ ’Ermit”: Leeches can be more than
just a pest in New Guinea. A leech-bite
on the ankle, if infected by a fly that has
been feeding on a tropical-ulcer, or by
the spittle of a native with New Guinea
mouth-disease, offers an ideal site for an
ulcer—apparently because the leech’s
saliva, injected to keep the blood from
clotting, affects the tissue and lowers its
resistance to the tropical-ulcer germs.
The bush-mokka (scrub-itch mite) simi-
“Watch me catch turtles.”
larly poisons the tissue with its saliva,
but in this case the bite swells and itches
intolerably and the victim’s irresistible
urge to scratch results in a sore for the
entry of the ulcer-germs. The other big
source of poisoned wounds which turn
easily to tropical-ulcers is pit-pit —the
reedy water-bamboo. When this has been
cut down the razor-sharp butts tear the
natives’ bare feet and legs. The poisonous
sap causes these cuts to swell and weep.
Tropical-ulcer germs rarely invade an
unpoisoned wound, even one which is
heavily infected by ordinary germs —they
seem to need special preparation of the
surrounding tissue before they can
flourish.
* * * *
“Q.V.”: The gumtrees along the old
sandy flat were blooming, and from a
distance we could see the myriad insect-
life swarming over the little puff-ball
flowers and fresh, pale-green leaf-tips.
Friendly bees, perhaps, drawing nectar
and spreading pollen? No. Pumpkin-
beetles ! Thousands of bright-orange
vandals destroying the new flowers, the
buds and the young leaves. There’ll be
no seeding from those trees this season.
* * ■ * *
“O’Johnno”: I often heard “Strap it
up! ” for goods on credit in my boyhood,
but not much of late ; it was only the other
day I discovered its alleged origin with
leather money. In the 18th century,
leather tokens were used by tradesmen,
and even up to 1876 flax-spinners were
paid in leather pence and half-pence
which could be passed locally. In
England’s Midlands mining-districts the
men cut “tallies” from their machinery-
straps, redeemable on pay-day, for food
and clothing in the “tommy shops.”
* * * *
“Kelms”: Expected a more construc-
tive reply to my account of the winged
creature which carried a big grasshopper
up a perpendicular wall than “Ex-Ped.’s”
amusing explanation (B. 2/l/’57). That
creature is real and will almost certainly
have been examined and classified, but it
was new to me. It only appeared to use
three sets of wings to overcome increas-
ingly severe obstacles —no insect has more
than two pair of wings and this was un-
doubtedly a member of that order. Very
little is known about the manner in which
insects, or even birds, use their wings, but
there’s far more to it than a mere flapping-
motion. It may be presumed that insects,
at least, have means other than merely
mechanical ones of supplying those extra
bursts of power they need every now and
again. Perhaps a more flexible use of a
wing rather than increased speed—that
could give a visual and audible impression
of an additional pair of wings being
brought into play. Now consider the
other peculiarities The creature attached
the grasshopper, far bigger than itself, to
the wall by means of web, and then it built
the clay tomb around it. Anyone place it
now?
* * * *
“Curio”: I wrote to “The Church
Times” (London) correcting a reference
to Captain James Cook as the “discoverer
of Australia and New Zealand.” Subse-
quently I received a query from a resident
of Clapham. It appears that visitors from
Australia and New Zealand come to
Clapham and ask about a tree (or three
trees, for the legend varies) that Captain
Cook is supposed to have planted on
Clapham Common before his last voyage.
The trees have been destroyed as danger-
ous. There is no evidence that Cpok ever
lived at Clapham, though his widow lived
there for many years, and at her death
left £9OO to Holy Trinity Church. Has
anyone else heard of the legend?
m * * *
A CUSTOM that Murray Islanders still
maintained when I was in Torres
Straits was that known as “wetpur,” a
ceremonial presentation of food by one
group to another. It was not a token of
affection or generosity, but a public dis-
play to show the group’s wealth in food-
stuffs and native-garden products, which
the other group was invited to beat.
When the season proved good (Murray,
by the way, is the most fertile island of
the Straits) a man would decide to hold
a wetpur, arranging a suitable time with
his friends. Generally it took place in
the middle of the harvest. Then a
“dreaming man” was sought out, to
originate a special dance-and-song to suit
the occasion, and teach the items to the
members of the group engaging him.
Intimation would then be made of the
names of the recipients of the wetpur, and
the scene would be set.
Each group had two or three special
sites on which were large trees; the
women were told to clean-up the ground,
while the men built a fence of coconut-
leaves to enclose an oval cleared space.
The enclosure served also as a private
practising-ground for the dancers and the
mask-makers, and the “dreaming-man”
put in hard work at rehearsals, having a
reputation to maintain in his own special
art. No strangers were allowed a preview.
When the performers were considered
expert, the garden-products were dug and
cut, and special trees were selected within
the wetpur area on which the offerings
were hung in great profusion. Every-
thing being ready, the invitations were
sent.
When the wetpur-guests arrived they
found the drummers seated in the
ceremonial-ground, the masked dancers
ready for action, and songs of welcome
being sung. At the end of a couple of
hours of dancing, the performers un-
masked, went forward to the guests, and
laid their masks down in front of them,
while the wetpur-donors led their pre-
arranged recipients of gifts, to the food-
laden trees and formally bestowed their
gifts.
A big feast followed, the guests
departed, and in about a month’s time
those who had received the presents put
on a wetpur of their own in return,
endeavoring to outclass the previous
display.
Sometimes the return-gifts were con-
sidered poorer in quantity or quality, and
arguments followed, leading to angry
recriminations. The natural consequence
was the putting-on of another wetpur to
prove the giver’s bank-standing, this in
turn leading to a series of contests, with
the groups racing one another week after
week until they had not only exhausted
their garden-supplies but cleaned them-
selves out of their personal belongings as
well.
The non-participating islanders, as in
the manner of spectators at the gaming-
table, looked on and watched every
exchange, with an occasional individual
managing to make a bit out of it for him-
self on the side.
The wetpur was usually regarded as the
beginning of what would eventually lead
to inter-group frays, and authority had
to be invoked to restrict them.
C. CORAL.
THE SNAKES
Charmed with their peculiar world
Of light and languor spun,
The serpents, emerald and yellow,
Slither in the sun.
Together like a skein they show
Their grace with curve and flick,
And on a dry and subtle skin
Engraven Arabic.
A seething globe of heat contains
Their doctrine, rarely breaks.
Sun and beds of amber dust
Exist for little snakes.
Far-off their kind sedately twine
And hiss in forest deep,
Formidable the python hangs
From boughs of fronded sleep ;
The everlasting aliens
To man’s affrighted hand,
The strangers blazing in their silks
On human-spotted land.
In swamps the golden, cruel coil
Pursues eternal quarrel;
In deserts under watchful sky
A loop as pale as coral
Lies along the old cow-bone
Forsaken years ago ;
In sweating zone the fer-de-lance
Sharpens death’s shadow.
A hooded horror rises up
To urging Indian reeds ;
In pit of dusk some venomous red
Is like a flower that bleeds.
Terrible the reptile rope
Twists around the earth :
Adam asked with starting eye
Why came such to birth ?
No answer from his son, nor Eve;
No answer from the snake ;
Yet beautiful and lethal, these
A sort of wisdom make.
It seems that gods with love design,
And even name the strangest “ mine'’
Love through universe dares give
The right to live.
N.Z.
PAULA HANGER BIRCH.


Faith U& tt&e
Future
Looking at the Australian scene now, when
we have been blessed with a remarkable run of
good seasons, I feel we should be developing a
livelier sense of what is entailed in the nation’s
Water Loss.
Seasons are not always good. Nature has her
moods. And we should be thinking of raising the
insurance on our expanding economy.
Wool has more than pulled its weight, and
like every other staple industry we have, it is
dependent on water.
We can look at it this way: 81 per cent, of
the Northern Territory, 53 per cent, of Queensland
and 37 per cent, of Western Australia lie within
the tropics. In that area are rivers that pour an
enormous volume of water into the sea each year,
mostly in months of the tropical “wet.”
Queensland rivers alone have an estimated
run-off of 95-million acre-feet—almost half the
Australian total. The Murray system, our largest
by far, discharges 10-million acre-feet a year.
One-third of the Queensland outpour is from rivers
high up in Cape York Peninsula.
A small part of this wasted water, if conserved,
would irrigate an area greater than is now under
irrigation in the whole of Australia.
I believe the saving could be made. And I
say that, mindful of the physical problems involved
but knowing also that, with modern machinery
and engineering methods, bigger works of
name' jusTtwa Dr ' *
i • i 7 — "‘‘v C/JL wild l
techniques and equipment make possible.
saving.
Effect all your Insurances with
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
Insurance Company Limited
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
'Phone: BWIOII, BWIOI2, 8W4991
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
All Types of General Insurance
Directors:
SIR VICTOR WILSON, K.B.E. (Chairman)
JAMES H. STEPHENSON (Deputy Chairman)
S. E. A. STIRLING, STRUAN ROBERTSON,
R. G. GALE
A. C. MAITLAND,
Managing Director
N. E. MANION,
Manager
Branches and Agencies In all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
Business, Robbery, Etc.
The B.H.P. Issue
-DROKEN HILL PROPRIE-
-L* TARY’S most interesting
years as a steelworks appear to
be immediately ahead of it.
And the “pay-off” for many
years of spadework, as well as
hopes deferred, should soon be
within striking-distance.
, Like most Australian industrial
giants (such as General Motors),
B.H.P. has a huge plan of
development and expenditure
in hand. Something like £lOO
million is to be spent over the
next five years, and this is to be
financed partly out of borrow-
ings, partly out of new capital,
and partly out of ploughed-back
profits and other retentions.
This means that there will be
a good deal of idle capital in
uncompleted projects at any
given moment during the next
five years. It also means that
a considerable proportion of
profits earned from such plant as
is in operation will not be avail-
able for distribution whilst the
demand for capital for develop-
ment is urgent.
But that is nothing new to
B.H.P. or those people who have
been its patient shareholders
over the past decade. On a
smaller capital than at present a
great deal of plant-extension has
been achieved since the end of
the war, and for years the
amount of “dead” capital was a
considerable proportion, while
the charge on earnings was high.
(Last year, for instance, £9.7
million was visibly set aside for
depreciation and plant-replace-
ment ; £5.8 million the year
before.)
In the past two years, however,
much of this past capital-outlay
has become productive: the
big wide hot-strip mill at Port
Kembla, the new blast-furnace
there, the new open-hearth shop
and other steelmaking capacity
and processing facilities.
It would appear, from an out-
side analysis, that B.H.P. has
“stepped” its expansion pro-
gramme to relate new capital-
expenditure to new productive
capacity arising from an earlier
capital-outlay.
Thus the present £ 100-million
programme will have the
immediate profit-earning help of
the new pig-iron and steel
capacity at Newcastle and Port
Kembla and the additional pro-
cessing plant at those places and
at Kwinana in W.A. (these
“Say when ..."
additions to profit-earning being
themselves, the result of capital-
outlay that lay unproductive for
several years).
In other words, for the year
ending May 31 next, B.H.P. and
its associated cos. should be able
to show a large lift in profit-
earning as the basis of a foot-
hold for the next big step up
the production ladder. During
1957-58 the profit-lift should be
greater still, as much of the new
plant now producing has only
recently started to operate.
During 1956 B.H.P. raised the
price of basic steel twice, and
these rises appeared to be partly
intended to help finance the
current expansion programme,
the need for the rises being
underlined by the fact that out
of every £lOO of profit earned
the Government takes at least
£4O in taxation. After the rises
had taken place, Australian
steel was still about £2O a ton
cheaper than the landed cost of
imported steel.
At the end of the five-year
programme B.H.P. should have
a modern undertaking of great
potential capitalised at a low
figure (to the extent that it is
financed out of profits and
retentions). The ensuing benefits
should be shared —low prices to
the consumer and improved
dividend prospects for the
investor, assuming that expan-
sion at the present rate is then
no longer necessary. Even if
normal expansion is then still
called for, in relation to the
increased productive and profit-
earning capacity it is unlikely
to be such a continuing burden.
Though the present issue of
5,992,578 £1 shares at par (one
for five) is intended to help pay
for the new tinplate works (all
Australia’s requirements of tin-
plate are at present imported), it
has been forecast by the Depart-
ment of Trade that the Port
Kembla tinplate works, of 70,000
tons capacity a year, should be in
operation by the end of 1957.
It is evident from a study of
B.H.P. figures that it makes more
money out of processing steel
than it does out of making basic
steel. At any rate, during a
period in which its outturn of
steel was almost static its profits
rose steadily each year. This
raises hopes of the ultimate
benefits to be obtained from the
tinplate works and similar
ancillary plants.
If the £ 100-million programme
over the next five years is
financed in equal proportions of
borrowed money, ploughed-back
profits and new share-capital at
par, then the share-capital raised
over the five years will be equal
to approximately a one-for-one
par issue in relation to capital j
as it will stand after completion
of the present issue. On capital j
in the meantime chairman Colin
York Syme has spoken of
“reasonable dividends.” The
present rate is 10 p.c.
B.H.P. has not made a bonus
issue since 1940. And then it
was financed out of share-
premiums charged on previous
cash issues.
The market in the rights to the
new shares has opened at 20s.
The shares are payable in full
(£1) by March 25. At a total cost
of, say, 405., the yield to the
present purchaser would be
5 p.c. from a 10 p.c. dividend.
“Vigorously Selective”
A S the Stock Exchanges closed
for 1956 The Bulletin
offered the opinion that “the
sharemarkets, for 1957 promise
to open on a vigorously
selective note.”
That forecast has in fact been
well borne out. The measure of
the vigor in selection has been
demonstrated in the case of
Henry Jones, A.C.1., Masonite,
Minster, Bradford Cotton,
Reichhold, Herald and Weekly
Times, Paccal, Bitumen and Oil
and Johns and Way good—in all
of which there have been some
really chunky rises (16s. a share
in the case of Johns and Way-
good).
But the vigor is essentially
selective. There is no evidence,
as was stressed here last week,
that Australian manufacturing,
wholesaling and retailing
generally are at present in any
better shape than they were
before Christmas. The national
finances are stronger, though,
and, as always, merit (or
believed merit) is being paid for
in the case of particular stocks.
We are now at the halfway mark
in calculating the 1956-57
financial year’s results, and
interim dividends and other
developments are in some cases
revealing.
Profound—and Profuse
[From Mel Standin]
PROFOUND arguments for
the separation of the central
bank from the Commonwealth
Trading Bank were produced,
and adduced from many financial
dignitaries, by Mr. Staniforth
Ricketson the other day.
As chairman at the sixth
annual meeting of Haliburton
Investments (Australia), Ltd.,
one of his Capel Court group
of cos., Mr. Ricketson delivered
a speech notably contrasting in
its length and substance with the
concise little summings-up that
used to bear his signature during
the early waverings, twenty
years ago, of the now-defunct
“Argus.”
Such as (1938): “Shareholders
were advised at the last annual
meeting of the company of the
extensive reorganisation plans
prepared by the directors to
modernise and improve ‘The
Argus,’ increase circulation and
ultimately place the business on
a sound profit-earning basis.”
For his new style, dig this:
If the Government digs in its heels
and refused to create a separate
central bank entirely divorced from
all the trading sections of the
Commonwealth Bank, then the present
unsatisfactory position involving lack
of full trust and co-operation within
the banking system will be per-
petuated. In that event, Australia
can only expect recurrent crises of
the type experienced during the last
few years.
If, on the other hand, the
Government, under pressure of
public opinion, educated by wise
hank publicity and expressed
through an influential cross-section of
its own party members, agrees to
the separation, then a new era in
Australia’s financial history will have
been opened up. Should that happen,
it is not too much to expect that, in
years to come, the names of Mr.
Menzies and Sir Arthur Fadden will
be honored for their statesmanship
in national financial affairs. If, how-
ever, they refuse to act, their splendid
services to the community in other
directions may well be forgotten and
their names ever afterwards
associated with their failure to meet
Australia's fundamental need.
Apart from Mr. Ricketson’s
necessary respiration during that
difficult delivery, breathed there
a man at the sixth annual meet-
ing who did not already see the
forgotten Mr. and Sir
(Continued on next page)


It’s easier ...
to pay by cheque
I HR
y -
Payment of bills, is so easy and safe, for a
cheque in the post saves much time and
trouble, and cheque butts and bank state-
ment provide a convenient and accurate
record of expenditure. You don’t need to
carry large sums of money when you have
a cheque book in your pocket.
Why not put one there today?
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Oldest and Largest Trading Bank in Australia
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
sasraaaarazi
DBC9SV
MONEY MAKES
MONEY!
General Credits Ltd.
offers investors
First Mortgage Debenture Stock
Interest paid quarterly free of exchange. Cumu-
lative stock carrying 6£% compounded on yearly
rests with currencies of 5 to 15 years. Prospectus
available all branches of The Commercial Bank of
Australia Limited, Members of Stock Exchanges
and Offices of the company.
Short Term
ALLOTMENTS
SUSPENDER
TEMPORARILY
Long
i erm
15 years
5 to 10 years
4 years
3 years
2 years
.}
per cent.
7
- «i
- 6
- **
DIRECTORS: V. H. STANLEY-
LOW (Managing), J. M. FORD,
E. W. COX, ERIC HUGHES, J. F.
HUGHES, F. G. MENZIES, C.8.E.,
H. F. CLARKE.
Bankers for the issue :
THE COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute
an invitation to subscribe for the debenture
stock mentioned herein.
Brokers to the Issue: J. B. WERE & SON
unwept, unhonored
and unsung if they failed to
grant those banks the decree
nisi?
Long, long afterwards (about
7000 words) they were consoled
with this:
Whilst there may be doubts regard-
ing the immediate outlook, there can
be none whatever regarding the long-
term prospects of Australia, provided
there is no third world war and that
this country continues to be blessed
with good seasons. With America’s
declaration of its attitude towards
the Middle East and the reconstruc-
tion of the British Cabinet, prospects
of peace are greater than they have
been for many months.
Hooray!
Central Bank Separation
CTANIFORTH RICKET-
SON’S advocacy of speedy
separation of the Commonwealth
Trading Bank from the central
bank may be closer to fulfilment
than is generally suspected.
And some of general-manager
Armstrong’s bright young men
in the Commonwealth Trading
Bank wouldn’t mind the separa-
tion, as it would probably mean
more scope for them in the long-
run, as well as the likely addi-
tion of the Commonwealth
Savings Bank to the trading-
bank, following the example
established recently by the
shareholder - owned trading-
banks.
Approving Mr. Ricketson’s
request for separation of the
trading-bank and central-bank
functions of the Commonwealth
Bank, H. C. C. Marshall,
manager of the Bank of N.S.W.,
added that an alteration of the
“special accounts” provisions of
the banking legislation was also
of vital importance.
Representatives of the trading-
banks are to confer with the
Government in Canberra shortly.
The Check to Inflation
A FALL of 4s. a week in the
basic wage in Sydney has
followed the 11s. rise in the
previous quarter, which was
promoted by famine prices for
potatoes and onions and by the
steep increase in State Govern-
ment transport charges.
It is consoling to know that
potatoes and onion prices are
down to reasonable levels, but
there is little hope of transport
charges being reduced under the
present Administration. And
so with many other non-seasonal
(or perhaps unseasonable)
factors in the economy.
The basic wage in Sydney is
now £l3 10s. a week. In other
States cost-of-living adjustments
are not always automatic. But
Perth and Hobart now have the
highest cost-of-living in Aus-
tralia, though they have few
potato troubles; Brisbane and
Adelaide continue to live more
cheaply than other capitals. •-
Savings-bank Figures
Savings-banks established
by the Bank of N.S.W.,
A.N.Z. Bank and Commercial
Banking Co. of Sydney have
got off to a flying start.
During 1956 (approximately)
the B.N.S.W. offshoot got in £5O
million of deposits, the A.N.Z.
£27 million, and the C.B.C. — 1
latest off the mark —£11 million.
These three new savings-
banks accounted for £BB million
of the £lOO million added to
deposits by all savings-banks
in Australia during the year.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
THE Labor leaders, of course,
would have preferred a
general election for the sufficient
reason that they would probably
have won it.
If, on grounds of exigency no
less strong, the Conservatives
have seen fit not to go to the
country the nation is nevertheless
profoundly thankful. A six-
weeks campaign of mud-
slinging, vituperation and
partisan bitterness would have
plunged Britain into despair. The
Socialists have still nothing
positive to offer in the way
of an alternative Government.
So it was natural that their
impotence should break out in
an attack, involving the Consti-
tutional function of the
Sovereign, on the method of
choosing a successor to a
resigning Prime Minister. The
Tories, they affirm, forced the
Queen into politics and, more-
over, into party manoeuvres.
This unusual and apparently
undemocratic procedure, which
is distinctive to the Conservative
organisation, is not new. It has
been employed no less than five
times during the present century.
According to the Canadian
political scholar, R. T. Mc-
Kenzie, who has made a
thorough study of our political
systems, the working of the
method has proved to be un-
cannily efficacious. As no Labor
Prime Minister has yet resigned
to hand over his office to another
comparisons are difficult. But the
paradox is that it is virtually
impossible for the Labor-party
to get rid of a leader who refuses
to budge.
Candid Profile
That most liberal-minded
people would have preferred Mr.
Butler to Mr. Macmillan cannot
be concealed. Yet it is equally
arguable that the choice is the
best available. Mr. Butler, after
the failure of his policies as
Chancellor, is still under a
cloud ; and, no doubt, his “pink-
ness” is a liability at the present
time when considerations of
unity are paramount.
It is probable, though, that
Harold Macmillan’s toughness
has earned him the succession;
and there is the other important
realisation that Mr. Butler is
more reconcilable as a lieutenant
than the other way round.
The kind of figure that Mr.
Macmillan projects is not
particularly endearing. He
suggests the typical detached
aristocrat languid, cynical,
flippant, aloof, dilettante. One
remembers asking him a question
about his Budget and being put
off, almost disdainfully, by an
irrelevant anecdote told with an
after-dinner speaker’s veneer.
But one also suspects that this
attitude may be only an act.
He is no aristocrat (although
he is married to one). A photo-
graph of the ancestral home —
a crofter’s cottage on the Isle of
Arran —hangs in his study. His
grandfather came to London to
escape poverty and privation.
His father was for six years a
schoolmaster. And he, for all his
putative leaning towards the
extreme Right, has written a
book on “The Middle Way.”
He suggests the wealthy
amateur in politics. Yet that is
not so. He has the widest
experience of any of his fellows.
He has brains, too —a King’s
Scholar, like Walpole, at Eton;
and he won his way, like
Asquith, to Balliol, where he
took a “first” in Classics.
Courage, imagination and
drive are certainly qualities of
his.
Seasoning: Hot
The English Stage Society’s
Christmas-holiday production,
Wycherley’s “The Country Wife”
(Royal Court Theatre), is so
successful that the run has been
extended into February. Here is
the answer to the plea of those
who want something different
from “Peter Pan/ For this play,
probably the bawdiest in the
classical repertory, is everything
that a family entertainment
should not be.
Qf course, the times were
different when it was first put
on. The English aristocracy had
returned from France after the
Restoration. The theatre broke
loose from its Puritanical
shackles and ran wild, becoming
the monopoly of rakes, men-
about-town and philanderers’
lovelies whose modesty was
hardly consistent with the masks
they sported. They were
licentious days.
There are eight recorded
productions of this play between
1675 and 1748, and five between
1924 and 1940. The gap of
almost 200 years is interesting.
Although Garrick made a (no
doubt softened) adaptation,
perhaps the explanation may be
ascribed partly to the influence
of Sheridan (whose skill was
greater and whose comic sense
was surer) and partly to the later
(non-technical) influence of
Queen Victoria.
An Old Vic revival of 1936 is
doubly remembered for the
controversy it provoked (“His-
torical interest is no excuse for
the resurrection of filth”) and
for the reason that it was
superbly done, the ultimate in
finesse.
George Devine’s production
has much to commend it, especi-
ally the stylised, filigree setting
and the restlessness of the action,
most of which takes place on an
incline. The explosive bawdry
of the first act.is also shatteringly
amusing, but the company is
essentially of mixed authority
and cannot sustain the interest.
Moreover, the basic situation,
Mr. Horner’s alleged emascula-
tion, never transcends its true
level of a smutty joke.
Lourence Harvey’s Horner,
though superb in presence and
stylism, seems not quite right:
he is too bland, as if from lately
playing “The Flag Lieutenant,”
and never a con vin ci n g
philanderer. But Joan Plow-
right’s Margery Pinchwife is
choice. To Hazlitt’s “self-will,
curiosity, art and ignorance”
she adds a twinkling country
zestfulness and a buoyant sense
of purpose. The letter scene is
high comedy, juicy and definitive.
—and Sweet
At the Arts Theatre, the fare
is solidly English (not like the
other, “From the French”) and
as wholesome and inoffensive as
Agnes Wickfield. Here the
revival is Tom Taylor’s “The
Ticket-of-Leave Man,” a highly
moral tale of a Lancashire lad
who came to London in 1863,
squandered his inheritance in
wild living, went to jail, came
out before his time to the sweet,
poor maid who was waiting for
him, kept straight, and was
overtaken by his murky past,
sank lower but finally made
good, thanks to his own moral
strength and the unswerving
affection of his dear wife.
It was the first of a long line
of plays to introduce an amateur
, detective, here the multiguised
Hawlcshaw, and, because of its
impact, caused the law to be
altered.
The actors avoid burlesque
and, by their affecting playing,
even draw the odd sentimental
tear.


The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Felt and Textiles of Australia, Ltd.
TT was four years ago when this big
A manufacturer ran-up group losses
totalling more than £470j000. Since then
its directors have been engaged in a
thoroughgoing reorganisation of the
business. Not that the collapse of earn-
ings in 1952 was solely the result of
internal weaknesses. For a decade after
the public became interested in the co.
in 1936 the ords. received a steady 10
p.c. followed by 12 i p.c. for the five years
to 1951.
The chief troubles in 1952 were a fall
in wool prices and the slump in the wool-
textile industry, with the added need to
write-down the value of stocks. It was
apparent at the time, though, that some
definite changes in organisation were
required. Accordingly new divisions
were established within the business to
concentrate on personnel management,
engineering, and research and develop-
ment, features which had until then
tended to be underemphasised, and a
planning committee was set-up to regu-
late future policy.
On the financial and administrative
side all the former wholly-owned sub-
sidiaries were merged in the parent co.
with the object of simplifying the
structure of the organisation.
In its reconstituted form the business
comprises the much-enlarged parent co.
with its seven operating divisions, wool,
felt, footwear, textiles, clothing, plastics
and the N.S.W. division, and five sub-
sidiary or associate cos., including the
offshoots in New Zealand and South
Africa and the newly-formed Chatta-
nooga Tufted Carpets (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.
In all there are 45 factories.
Considerably more wool was pro-
cessed and sold abroad last year,
but within Australia keen competition
was experienced in the fields of floor-
coverings (woven carpets and felts),
woollen- and worsted-weaving and
clothing. Footwear sales were up,
despite difficulties in the N.S.W. factories,
and in the plastics division trial produc-
tion runs were made of plastic film, for
which there is a big demand. Negotia-
tions were completed recently with
English plastic-makers Storey Bros, and
Co., Ltd., to form a new subsidiary
which will instal printing-plant to handle
the plastic film produced by the co.
In New Zealand imports troubled
manufacturers, too, and the local co.
had its worst term since 1952. Another
successful year was had by the associated
co., Felt and Textiles of South Africa,
Ltd.
Overall, thanks to the firmer wool
market, sales of parent and Australian
and N.Z. subsidiaries showed a dip of
only £127,803 to £32,082,168, just on
0.4 p.c. lower. Within Australia profits
from trading, before taxation, were
higher, but after providing for the
increased tax, and taking the reduced
N.Z. profit into account, there was a
drop in consolidated net earnings of
£42,986, or 7 p.c., on the preceding
term:
/ —Dividends
Pref. Re-
June, Loss.* 6& 4 p.c. , Ordinary serves.f
£ £ £ £
1952. .473,577 64,800 Nil 3,478,173
Added intangibles, £3200 .. .. 3,474,973
Unexplained additions, £8064 . . 3,483,037
Debenture sinking fund, £18,145 ..3,501,182
Profit.
1953. .606,054 64,800 8 p.c. = 308,965 3,638,471
From contingencies, £44,261 . . .. 3,682,732
Tax underprovision, £23,629 .. ..3,659,103
Added capital reserves, £176,773 .. 3,835,876
Added general reserves, £14,036 .. 3,849,912
Unexplained additions, £21,617 .. 3,871,529
Net addition intangibles, £6027 ..8,865,602
1954. .702,694 64,800 10 p.c. = 379,956 4,123,440
Tax overprovided, £7471 ;. ..4,130,911
Less capital reserves, £31,323 ..4,099,588
Less revenue reserves, £416 .-. .. 4,099,172
Net addition intangibles, £11,653.. 4,087,519
1956. .617,532 64,800 10 p.c. = 379,956 4,260,295
• Tax overprovided, £9541 .. ~ 4,269,886
Added capital reserves, £7946 .. 4,277,782
Adj. liq. subsidiary, £5746 .. 4,272,036
Net addition intangibles, £6825 .. 4,265 211
Add sinking-fund income, £7996 .. 4,273’,207
1956. .574,546 64,800 10 p.c. = 379,956 4,402,997
* After deducting outside shareholders’ interests,
f After deducting goodwill, etc., £177,624 at
30/6/’66.
Written after deducting the interests of
minority shareholders, the £574,546
covered the pref. div. and 13.4 p.c. on
ordinary capital, as against 14.5 p.c. in
1955. Ord. dividend was held at 10 p c
Once again the co.’s taxation liability
for the year, estimated at £388,266 (up
£13,271), was less than it would be under
normal circumstances, by offsetting
against it the balance of past trading
losses. Depreciation provision at
£404,763 absorbed an extra £8485.
To finance net additional investment
on freeholds, plant (£439,509), shares in
other cos. (£187,463), stocks (£464,601),
and debtors, etc. (£349,505), the co. bor-
rowed £757,166 from the bank and owed
creditors £354,878 more:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955 1956.
Paid capital .. £5,299,505 £5,299,505 £5,299,505
Reserves .. 4,290,207 4,438,775 4,580,52'i
Outside interests* 1,201,888 1,340,964 1,414,915
Debentures .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Mortgages .. 2,035,657 2,501,913 2,579,034
Overdraft .. 1,635,313 2,255,201 3,012,367
Sundry creditors,
etc 1,298,209 1,369,772 1,724,650
Tax provision 426,187 405,564 498,958
Final divs. .. 221,178 221,178 221,178
Suspense a/c.. 24,526
£18,008,264 £18,892,932 £20,356,314
Freeholds .. 3,908,642 3,900,398 4,030,023
Plant . . . . 3,471,665 3,475,784 3,785,608
Shares ~ 447,049 440,377 633,840
Stock . . ~ 6,016,696 7,303,377 7,707,978
Debtors, etc. .. 8,192,827 3,360,661 3,710,100
Casl » • ■ • • 1,580 2,004 2,297
Sinking fund in-
vestment .. 193,947 220,822 248,818
Suspense a/c .. 9,031 4,909
Intangibles .. 166,827 178,480 177,524
£18,008,264 £18,892,932 £20,356,314
* Share capital and reserves.
Most of the increase in investments
represented capital taken-up in the tufted-
carpet co. (in which an equal share is
held with Bradford Cotton Mills, Ltd.),
and the jump in debtors was due prin-
cipally to higher sales over the last two
months pf the term. The extra inventory
was held mainly by the busier wool
division, though stocks of some essential
raw materials were increased to guard
against interruptions to supplies.
Because of the heavier stocks carried,
rate of stock-turnover for the year
slipped to 3.7 times, compared with 4
times in 1955. Working-capital at term’s
end was £388,214 lighter at £6,377,669.
At 245. 3d. (275. 7d. a year ago) the
f.-p. £1 ords. return 7.2 p.c. on the basis
of a 10 p.c. div. The 6 p.c. second and
4 p.c. third prefs. a,t 20s. 6d. and 11s. 9d.
yield 5.8 p.c. and 6.8 p.c. respectively.
Net tangible cover is £4B 6s. 7d. seconds,
£7 10s. 2d. thirds and 435. 2d, ords.
Hardie Trading, Ltd.
of .the prosperous Hardie group,
this co. has grown rapidly and profit-
ably since the public first became in-
terested in 1945. From £150,000, all in
ordinary scrip, paid capital has been
lifted by cash (£314,053) and bonus
(£153,583) issues to the present figure of
£767,636, including £150,000 of 5 p.c.
pref. capital.
Over these 11 years ord. dividends have
averaged a little over 11.4 p.c. a year.
For the last six terms the distribution has
been a well-covered 12| p.c., and, as a
sweetener, the co. has made bonus share-
issues an annual event for the last three
years. In the light of the per-
formance a yield of 5.5 p.c.
from the scrip on the current market
of around 445. 6d. is fully satisfactory.
With its headquarters in Melbourne the
parent co. trades from branches at Gee-
long (in Victoria) and in Tasmania,
South Australia and W.A. In N.S.W.
and Queensland merchandising is in the
hands of a subsidiary, James Hardie
Trading Co. Pty., Ltd. (which also makes
car-polishes and industrial adhesives),
and its Brisbane offshoot, James Hardie
Trading Pty., Ltd.
The other subsidiaries and their acti-
vities are:
Spartan Paints Pty., Ltd., makers and
distributors, with factories in all mainland States,
of paints, enamels, lacquers, varnishes, etc., for
industrial, automotive and general decorative
uses.
L. Horscroft Pty., Ltd., makers and
distributors of dry-cleaning and laundry
machinery.
Proud Bros. Pty., Ltd., makers in Victoria
and N.S.W. of foundry facings.
Hardie Trading Co. (N.Z.), Ltd., distributors
for the Australian manufacturing interests of the
Hardie Trading group and of industrial raw
materials and machinery.
Australian Bobbins Pty., Ltd., makers of
wooden bobbins for the textile trade, in which
Hardie Trading owns a half-interest. It also
has equal distribution rights to the co.’s products.
All of the group’s merchandise was in
good demand and sales increased satis-
factorily, though more difficult conditions
were experienced in New Zealand. The
paint subsidiary more than held its own
ground, despite intense competition, and
sales of car-polishes (marketed under the
well-known Repo brand) were also well
up. New types and models of dry-
cleaning and laundry machinery of its
own design were successfully introduced
by L. Horscroft, which is claimed to be the
biggest maker of this equipment in the
country. Further progress was made in
the development of Proud Bros., and a
“satisfactory” profit was earned.
Altogether, net earnings of the group
after setting aside £35,069 (up £382)
depreciation and £98,400 (up £18,400)
taxation, came to £172,992, or only
£2533 less than was claimed in 1955, the
co.’s best year. In the circumstances
it was a commendable result:
Hardie Trading, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
June Profit.* 5 p.c. t —I—Ord. 1 —Ord. % serves, serves.t
30, £ £ p.e. £ £ £
1951.. 707 6461 12j = 49,944 75,302 637,030
Profit sale assets, £1703 .. .. 588.733
From tax reserve, £10,189 .. .. 548,922
Unexplained reduction, £2119 .. 546,803
1952.. 166 7503 12i = 58,000 63,663 610,466
Profit sale assets, £2123 .. .. 612,589
Unexplained reduction, £2338 .. 610,251
1953.. 517 7503 12J= 57,999 34,015 644,266
Profit sale assets, £6479 .. .• 650,745
From tax reserve, £22,190 .. .. 672,935
Unexplained addition, etc., £26,043.. 698,978
1954- 7503 124= 57,999 85,138 784,116
Reserves capitalised, £46,400.. .. 787,716
Profit sale assets, £4556 .. .. 742,272
From tax-provision, £8425 .. .. 750,697
Unexplained addition, £ll4 .. .. 750,811
1955- 7503 124 = 63,799 104,223 855,034
Reserves capitalised, £51,040 .. 803,994
Profit sale assets, £7559 .. .. 811,553
From tax-provision, £1732 .. .. 813,285
Unexplained addition, £ll3 .. .. 813,398
1956- 7563 12i±= 70,180 95,309 908,707
Reserves capitalised, £56,143 .. 852,564
* After deducting outside shareholders’ interests and
contributions to staff fund, f Subject to intangibles,
£181,514 at 30/6/’56.
Pref. divs. required the usual £7503,
leaving a balance divisible among ordinary
shareholders equal to 29.5 p.c. on their
capital, compared with 32.9 p.c. in 1955
and 32.6, 24.6, 26.2, 29.1 and 14.9 p.c.
back to 1950. On shareholders’ funds
profit was 11.4 p.c. The latest of the
bonus-issues, on the same terms as the
previous gifts, one for ten, was made
after the close of accounts.
Because of the essential nature of most
of the commodities handled import-
restrictions have not interfered greatly
with the co.’s business. And now, follow-
ing the improvement in Australia’s
balance-of-payments position, some
relaxation in controls has been possible.
The co. continues to be concerned, how-
ever, that further rises in operating costs
will get ahead of its ability to handle
through greater manufacturing and selling
• efficiencies.
Mainly to achieve these efficiencies the
co. spent a net £76,151 on improvements
to plant and buildings during the year.
Finance for this expenditure and additions
to stocks (up £89,739) and debtors (up
£79,129) was provided out of earnings
and overdraft (up £159,370):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1954. 1955. 1966.
Paid capital .. £614,053 £660,453 £711,493
Reserves .. .. 784,116 856,034 908,707
Outside shareholders 51,250 51,250 61,250
Mortgage .. .. 13,782 13.782 13,782
Overdraft .. .. 194,294 165,794 325,164
Sundry creditors.. 719,126 815,343 764,877
Tax provision, etc. 128,961 141,210 161,285
Final divs. .. 61,750 67,561 73,932
£2,567.332 £2,770,417 £3,010,490
Freeholds .. 407,802 440,851 492,667
Leaseholds .. 249 249 249
Plant, etc. .. 175,399 207,926 232,261
Shares other cos. 13,000 13,000 13,000
Stock .. .. 1,057,414 1,130,639 1,220,378
Debtors .. .. 708,258 775,551 854,680
Cash .. .. 6,104 3,095 15,741
Intangibles .. 199,106 199,106 181,614
£2,567,332 £2,770,417 £3,010,490
Stocks have been valued at the lower of
cost or replacement and ample provision
made for doubtful debts. Working-capital
(the surplus of current assets over lia-
bilities) was up £46,154 to £765,541. Net
tangibles, based on book-values of fixed
assets calculated at cost less depreciation,
provide a cover of £9 11s. 9d. for each
pound of pref. capital and 41s. 9d. for
each pound of ord.
Peters Ice Cream (Vic.), Ltd.
TCE-CREAM production in Australia
last financial year just cleared 16-
mifiion gallons, an increase over output in
the 1954-55 term of a little more than
8 p.c., though still well below the record
level reached in 1950-51. The table
shows how demand has fluctuated:
Australian Production of Ice-cream.
Gallons. Gallons.
1951 .. .. 17,385,000 1954 ~ .. 13,678,000
1952 . . . . 17,306,000 1956 . . .. 14,812,000
1953 . . .. 13,425,000 1956 .. .. 16,023,000
One of the Peters group which accounts
for a big share of the market, this co. has
been engaged in a programme of vigorous
expansion in Victoria and Tasmania.
In the last couple of years, to facilitate
the distribution of ice-cream in Victoria,
depots have been established in a number
of country centres, and a modern factory '
built on a 12-acre site on the outskirts of
Launceston to take care of the Tasmanian
market. Last term the co. bought all the
plant and equipment of the Swallow and
Ariell, Ltd., ice-cream-making subsidiary
and another co., Boell Ice Pty., Ltd. A
lot of money has been spent, too, on new
equipment for the dairying offshoots,
Trafalgar Milk Supply Pty., Ltd., and
Yarragon Dairy Co. Pty., Ltd., taken over
during the 1955 term. As well as meeting
the needs of the ice-cream companies in
the group, these subsidiaries also supply
butter, milk and other dairy products to
Melbourne.
To fihance growth, paid capital has
been quadrupled since 1954 by two par
issues of scrip, both on a one-for-one
basis. The latest issue in March, 1956,
brought in £461,317 and raised capital to
£923,644, all in 12s. ordinary shares.
On the term’s average paid-up capital
al5 p.c. dividend was maintained, though,
because of a steep rise in costs, the
margin to the distribution was very much
slimmer than for the previous year:
Parent and Subsidiary.
n r.. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves *
£££ £ '
Add on consolidation, £19,537 .. 212 411
Taxes overprovided, etc., £7519 .. 2191930
Less added intangibles, £15,928 .. 204,002
19a1.. 70,768 15 p.c. = 33,441 37,322 241,324
- Taxes overprovided, etc., £7073 .. 248,397
1902.. 30,706 10 p.c. = 22,294 8,412 256,809
Taxes underprovided, etc., £196 .. 256,613
19;i3.. 60,275 12 p.c. = 26,753 33,522 290,135
Taxes overprovided, etc., £523 .. 290,658
1904.. 87,781 16 p.c. = 33,441 54,340 344,998
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Less added intangibles, £27.768 .. 317,230
1955.. 112,311 15 p.c. = 42,418 69,893 387,123
Tax overprovided, £l5l .. 387 274
1906.. 125,319 15 p.c. = 86,826 38,493 425,767
* After deducting intangibles, £68,696 at 30/6/’56.
Written after providing £84,529 (£72,829)
depreciation and £91,850 (£73,275) taxa-
tion the £125,319 profit was only 21.6
p.c. on mean capital as against 39.7 p.c.
in 1955 and 39.4 p.c., 27 p.c., 13.8 p.c.
and 31.7 p.c. back to 1951. It was
£13,228 less than the profit needed to
maintain a 15 p.c. dividend on capital this
year. To help it recover its position the
co. announced an increase in ice-cream
prices last September.
Reflecting the term’s acquisitions and
additions, freeholds, plant, etc., shot up
£318,659, £83,416 was added to stock
and £33,842 to debtors:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £222,943 £462,327 £923,644
Reserves .. 384,995 455,819 494,463
Overdraft .. 149,623 96,672
Creditors .. 78,231 161,899 256,842
Staff fund .. 10,000 10,000
Tax provision .. 67,200 73,275 91,850
Final div. .. 22,294 31,271 68,993
£925,186 £1,291,263 £1,825,792
Freehold, plant, etc. 676,384 945,774 1,264,433
Stock . . . . 96,185 126,373 209.789
Debtors .. .. 107,471 145,688 179,480
Cash, bonds, etc... 4,218 4,782 103,394
Intangibles .. 40,928 68,696 68,696.
£925,186 £1,291,263 £1,825,792
When the books closed more-or-less
liquid assets exceeded liabilities by
£84,978.
At 275. 6d. the 12s. shares return 6.1
p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis. Net tangibles
amount to 17s, 6d. a share.
Century Storage Battery Co., Ltd.
TTNCERTAIN when the co.’s directors
will need the balance of the £lOO,OOO
new capital put out last October, the
sharemarket prices the 55.-paid contribut-
ing ords. of Century Storage Battery Co.,
Ltd., at 265. The fully-paid shares are
quoted at 515., giving a difference over
and above the amount of uncalled capital
of 10s. a share. The new scrip was
payable ss. on application with the
balance in calls of ss. “as and when
required,” and it ranked for any
dividends declared after December 31.
The previous cash issue was made at
par on a two-for-five basis in October,
1951, and raised £lOO,OOO, making capital
£349,900. Since then the co. has managed
fresh capital-expenditure and bigger
stocks of raw materials, debtors, etc., on
short-term trade-credit and retained
profits, without any indication in the
balance-sheet of financial discomfort.
When the books closed on June 30 last
current liabilities of £139,572 were
covered by stocks, book-debts and cash
totalling £342,666, a ratio of
approximately one to 2.5:
1954. 1956. 1956.
Paid capital .. £350,000 £350,000 £360,000
Reserves .. .. 247,350 266,917 868,944
Creditors, etc. .. 36,477 66,019 42,700
Tax provision, etc. 45,059 51,429 61,872
Final div. .. 35,000 36,000 86,000
£713,886 £758,365 £848,516
Land," buildings .. 126,665 128,527 219,040
Plant, etc. .. 280,694 283,445 276,916
Shares subsidiary 2,770 2,770 2,770
Due by subsid. .. 19,136 27,759 25,129
Shares, etc., other cos. 17,051 17,170 6,116
Stock .. .. 157,564 173,827 162,053
Debtors .. .. 88,502 87,728 101,677
Cash, etc. ... 19,611 35,216 53,807
Intangibles .. 1,893 1,893 2,008
£713,886 £758,365 £848,516
Actual outlay on fixed assets last term
was £40,950, and to maintain the co.’s
position further expenditure on plant and
equipment is considered unavoidable. Just
how much, if any, of the uncalled capital
will be involved, though, is a matter of
guesswork.
Last year increased mechanisation of
factory operations helped the co. to
absorb the higher cost of labor and lead,
and 33 p.c. more was spent on advertising
to stimulate sales, which were a new
record for the business.
The co. has to itself the market for
process engravers’ zinc, but in the other
fields of rolled-zinc and battery manu-
facture competition within the country
and overseas is very strong.
After providing an unspecified amount
for depreciation and £57,250 (£46,100 in
1955) for taxation, and including *
dividend of £3465 out of the 1955 profits


DAVIES & COLLISOIT, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Anv*.
"V
L
I
*
LIFE ASSURANCE
FOR
YEARS
Keeping old
friends; making new
friends, since 1895.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN UfE
ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter & liiigh Streets, Sydney.
If any ‘‘Bulletin” Illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
THE NEW TRUSTEE SECURITY
NEWCASTLE
. \ , !
GUARANTEES YOU
£s's'-% FOR 5 YEARS
The City of Newcastle Loan is your first opportunity to invest
in Australia’s steel capital ITSELF. The City’s revenue —
which exceeded £7,000,000 in 1956—guarantees your
principal and interest for 5, 10 or 20,years. The Loan is also
an Authorised Trustee Investment in New South Wales.
The Loan will enable Newcastle’s Electricity Supply
Department to bring more power to factories, homes and
farms. Already it is serving 230,000 people in Greater
Newcastle and five country shires.
You can invest at any Commonwealth Trading Bank or
through a Stockbroker. Newcastle residents may apply direct
to the City Hall or Nesca House.
• i" i
Add Newcastle to your assets today!
CITY of NEWCASTLE LOAN
Closes Next Tuesday!
UNDERWRITERS:
Ernest L. Davis & Co.,
Sydney
J. H. Clack & Co.,
Newcastle
T
of the wholly-owned subsidiary
in Melbourne, net earnings
edged up £5BB to £76,029:
Parent Co.
Ke-
June, Profit. , —Dividend— \ serves.*
£ £ £
Tax overprovided, £B5OO .. 56,857
Assets revalued, £35,885 . . 92,742
1960.. 34.111 20 p.c. =20,000 106,853
Tax overprovided, £672 ~ 107,525
Assets revalued, £196,194., 303,719
Reserve capitalised, £lOO,OOO 203,719
1951.. 43.048 15 p.e. =37,500 209,267
1952.. 45.228 12 ~,, 35,994 218,501
1953.. 62.346 121 ~,,43,737 237,110
1954.. 62.735 15 „ ~52,495 247,350
1955.. 75.441 16£ ~,,56,875 265,916
Assets revalued, £73,873 .. 339,789
1956. . 76,029 161 p.c. =56,875 358,943
’Subject to intangibles, £2OOB at
30/6/’56.
As a percentage of paid capital
the £76,029 was equal to 21.7
p.c., as against 21.5 p.c. in 1955
and 17.9, 17.8 and 12.9 p.c. back
to 1952. Payment of a 16* p.c.
div. to shareholders took 74.8 p.c.
of the year’s profit. During the
year land and buildings were
written up £73,873 to the
October, 1955, V.-G. figure, and
the surplus transferred to
reserves.
After provisions for depreci-
ation (£1174, up £195) and taxa-
tion (£4202, up £849) the Mel-
bourne offshoot disclosed a profit
of £11,130, an increase of £837
on 1955.
On the 16| p.c. div. basis the
f.-p. £1 ords. return a satisfactory
6.4 p.c. at the present price of
51s. Including the uncalled
capital net tangible cover is'
355. lOd. a share.
Norseman Gold Mines, N.L.
TTHE return from this
Westralian mine has been
quite satisfactory since the pro-
duction of pyrites was put on a
profitable basis in 1947. How-
ever, earnings are still limited by
the poor demand for pyrites,
and although large-scale produc-
tion would enable “substantial”
price-reductions, the co.’s plant
is working at only one-third
capacity.
Federal legislation intended to
promote the use of pyrites in
the manufacture of sulphuric
acid has not proved effective,
manufacturers preferring the
brimstone (imported from
dollar-countries) for which their
plants were originally designed.
A greater quantity of ore (up
21,177 tons at 116,940 tons) was
handled last term, the heavy-
media separation-plant, installed
in 1955, rejecting low-grade feed
and making selective mining
unnecessary. The 89,493 tons
treated (down 2635 tons)
averaged 24.1 p.c. sulphur, com-
pared with 26.9 p.c. in the
previous term:
Total
Year. Sulphur
Oct. Content, Average
31, Tons. Proceeds. Per ton.
1952 .. 22,310 £506,876 £22.71
1953 . . 26,569 624,852 24.44
1954 .. 24,999 487.430 19.50
1955 .. 21,983 401,328 18.25
1956 .. 21,835 374,096 17.13
Although paying more for labor
and stores, extensive mechanisa-
tion resulted in the lowering of
working-costs for the third
successive year, and last term’s
figure of 48s. lOd. a ton was
7s. sd. under that of the pre-
ceding term. As a result, a
reduction in price of 6d. per
sulphur-unit was made in July,
’56, the adjustment equalling a
drop of £2 10s. a ton of con-
tained sulphur. As a con-
sequence, total income, including
£4391 from the sale of road-
metal, fell by £22,499 to
£379,344, but lower costs kept
the fall in net earnings to only
£539:
Year.
Oct. P-c. on
31, Profit. Capital. Dividend.
1952.. £50,813 27.1 20 p.c. = £37,500
1953.. 62,049 33.1 20 „ = 37,500
1954.. 47,098 25.1 20 „ = 37,500
1955. . 49,820 26.5 20 „ = 37,500
1956.. 49',281 26.2 20 „ = 37,500
Provision for taxation was
unaltered at £20,000, £35,178
(down £11,975) was allowed for
depreciation, and £20,457 (down
£904) written-off development
account. A third of the 20 p.c.
div. was tax-free.
Proved ore-reserves at
2,143,000 tons (estimated at
25 p.c. sulphur) will take quite
a time to work through at the
present rate of throughput, and,
with 1,615,000 tons of probable
reserves, it was not considered
necessary to prove additional
ore.
Gold-prospecting in the North
Princess Royal area was recom-
menced after a break of two
years, but “it may be some time”
MORE "WILD CAT"
REVIEWS on page 30
before any definite information
is available.
During the year surplus plant
was sold to Ravensthorpe
Copper Mines, in which Norse-
man holds 200,000 f.-p. 10s.
shares, the balance-sheet show-
ing fixed assets at £569,843,
current assets at £224,034 and
liabilities at £81,970. No value
has yet been given to the
Ravensthorpe scrip.
The decision to open-up some
million acres of agricultural
land in the Esperance district
may be followed by the erection
of a superphosphate plant
designed to utilise the near-by
pyrites, but until larger markets
are available any worth-while
improvement in earnings seems
to be dependent on some return
from either investments or the
gold-prospecting project.
The co. has a paid capital of
£187,500, the market valuing the
f.-p, ss. shares at around 12s.
New Prospecting Venture
King island scheelite
(1947), Ltd., Loloma (Fiji)
Gold Mines, N.L., and United
Uranium, N.L., have joined
equally in a new prospecting
venture. Arrangements have
been made to drill areas on the
Tennant Creek (N.T.) field.
Loloma ore-reserves petered-
out recently, and for the last
couple of years divs. on its
£93,375 paid capital have come
from the £1,001,313 investment
portfolio.
United Uranium is the operat-
ing co. for Northern Uranium
Develo pme n t, N.L., and
Uranium Mines, N.L.
(Finance continued on page 30)


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
Great efforts were made this week to
give more significance to Australia’s
National Day. The Town Hall was
decorated with a lOft.-high replica of the
Commonwealth coat-of-arms, massed
flags of Australian States, hundreds of
feet of pennants and bunting and banks
of flowers, shrubs and ferns. Speeches
were made by the Governor, the Premier
and the Lord Mayor. Governor Phillip
and Judge-Advocate Collins were repre-
sented by actors Walter Brown and
Lloyd Cunningham. “God Save the
Queen” and “Advance Australia Fair”
were both sung, and everything was very
fine and dignified.
However, although 30,000 people were
expected to see the ceremony, only 2000
attended. Perhaps the citizens were
afraid of the possible traffic-jams. More
probably they are just not interested in
fine and dignified ceremonies about
Australia Day. Now, if Grace Kelly’s
baby could have been flown out for the
occasion, then there really would have
been a traffic-jam!
* ☆ ☆
With opening-nights of two operas at
the Elizabethan, this week, the Mozart-
opera season is now well launched and
promises to be most successful. They
are really delightful, these operas,
especially “Cosi Fan Tutti,” which is an
amusing frivolity about all women being
faithless.
Dressing at the opening nights—apart
from the first, when the Governor-
General was present—has been rather
mixed. Noted Lady Berryman’s lovely
classic white gown at “The Magic Flute,”
and Mrs. Sharkey Simpson’s array of
beautiful full-length dresses, a different
one for each opera. Mrs. Roy
McCaughey’s geranium-pink velveteen
coat made a brilliant note of color at
“Cosi.” She was with Sir Charles and
Lady Lloyd Jones. Mrs. A. H ; Chartres
and Mrs. Rupert Scammell, both in black,
also looked striking at this opera.
☆ ☆ ☆
A couple of weddings of public
interest took place during the week. Janet
Cook, who married singer Darryl Stewart
(famous for his record “I Met a Man
Called Peter”) at St. Brigid’s Church,
Coogee, seemed to be rather less the
centre of attention than her father,
jockey W. Cook (who missed the last
race at Randwick in order to be able to
escort his daughter down the aisle). It
was a very large wedding with a reception
for 300 guests afterwards at the Hotel
Australia.
People of importance in the dancing-
world were present at the wedding of
Monica Myers to Jim Chilcott (son of
the late Mr. A. Chilcott and of Mrs) L.
Chilcott,' of Berowra), at St. Mary’s
Cathedral on Saturday. Monica is the
niece of the late Frances Scully, and her
godmother, Miss Tess Scully, was among
the guests. Attended by Mrs. Brian Irwin
(Wollongong), Pamela Hagon and Peg
Minogue in golden-toned tulle ballerinas,
Monica wore a dress of bouffant
embossed organdie. Her parents,
Lieutenant-Colonel H. G. W. Myers and
Mrs. Myers, of Neutral Bay, entertained
100 guests at the Pickwick after the
ceremony.
☆ ☆ ☆
Australian cooking can become
Continental cooking,” says Hungarian
chef Janos Geiencser, “with more sauces,
more flavor and more care.” Chef
Geiencser will be giving cooking-
demonstrations at Anthony Horderns’
every day this week. At a press-luncheon
last week he provided flavor aplenty in
the snapper-mornay he prepared,
and also in the crepes suzette, when he
tossed a heap of lump-sugar into a hot
pan, let it caramelise, then added butter
in a highly inspirational manner (“Never
put the butter in first,” he says; “the
heat may scorch it”), then lashins of
oi ange-juice. At this stage the aroma
was so wonderful one rather lost track
ot the lecipe, but it seemed that he put
the folded pancakes into the pan and put
the lid on. When the liquid was nearly
all absorbed by the pancakes, he poured
cherry-brandy and other liqueurs into it
and set it alight. Ambrosia! But
definitely a pay-day dish.
* ☆ ☆
Lunch at Prince’s on Thursday was a
oate for many varied and interesting
g°?R? of Swiss Consul-General
Hedmger was entertaining M. and
Madame Mottiez, with their small son
Claud. This family has been travelling
round the world by car, having already
taken in such exotic places as equatorial
Africa (where young Claud was born),
Malaya and Indonesia. Madame Mottiez
said that they were very impressed with
Sydney, which “is the second city of the
world for the beauty of the lights at
night. The first is Paris.”
At another table Mrs. Arthur Gollan
(Bellevue Hill) was entertaining four
delightful young sub-debs. Two of them,
Robyn Campbell (Charleville, Q.) and
Jane Corbould (St. George, Q.) had come
down from a holiday at Surfers’ Paradise
for one in Sydney, and June Ross was
holidaying from Gunnedah. Michele
Gollan is the only one of the four who
returns to school (Ascham) this year. Of
the others, Jane Corbould and June Ross
will take up Karitane-nursing, and
Robyn will set off for a trip abroad with
her mother, Mrs. Colin Campbell, and
her grandmother, Mrs. A. Ferguson.
Melbourne visitors included vivacious
Mrs. J. K. Peterson, from Toorak, who
has been staying at the Hotel Cecil
(Cronulla) and visiting friends all over
N.S.W. Wearing at the time a smart
little striped fez, she said she had bought
a lovely big apricot hat “like a lamp-
shade” to wear to the races, because
everyone said, “You always look so
Melbourne and suity”—but, to her
surprise, no one mentioned the hat!
Perhaps Melbourne has gone hatty, too.
Also from Melbourne was Mrs. E.
Phillips, who, after an absence of eight
years, finds Sydney very changed, “much
more colorful.” With her were her
daughter, Mrs. L. J. Herman (Brighton,
Vic.), and granddaughter Lorelle.
At another table Professor Harry
Messel conversed with Sir Adolph
Basser (probably about electronic-
brains) and with Minister for Housing
Abe Landa and Mr. E. Mendel. Else-
where, author Frank Clune talked of
his energetic concrete-mixing, wheel-
barrow-pushing, etc., on behalf of his
now-going-up home at Avalon, and also
about his one-year-old granddaughter
Karen, who can ,now stand up and
can talk (a little bit).
Helen McLaren, who sailed off for
Fiji in the Orsova on Friday, will be
married there on February 9 to Gordon
Lawrence Burley, younger son of the
J. L. Burleys, of Neutral Bay. Helen,
elder daughter of the G. L. McLarens, of
Cowra, was farewelled at a family party
given by Mrs. J. L. Burley at the Aus-
tralia on Wednesday last. Her marriage
will take place at St. Luke’s Church of
England, Suva, and a reception will be
held at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
Arthur Townsend.
Already the entertainments-committee
of the Chair of Australian Literature
Fund has organised two functions, the
first a buffet - tea, musicale and
mannequin-parade at the home of Mr.
Robert Wilson, 80 Wolseley-road, Point
Piper, on Sunday, February 10, at
6.30 p.m. The second is the New
Theatre’s presentation of the Australian
play “Under the Coolibah Tree,” by
Dick Diamond (author of “Reedy
River”), at the W.W.F. Theatre, 60
Sussex-street, on Friday, February 22.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sometimes when a child gets a word
wrong he comes close to the true state of
things. Two “howlers” heard recently
were: “Oh look, Mummy, at the house
all covered with crawlers!” and “We're
going to have spaghetti abominese for
lunch.”
* * ☆
Hints from abroad on what fashions
may bring in 1957 sound rather frighten-
ing. There is a hat, for instance, like a
basket with a rose emerging from it and
an upended Jerusalem artichoke ! There
are heels (on shoes, that is) painted with
abstract grimaces. Imagine a shoe with
a grimace! And there is a silhouette
which features “the tiny waistline and the
shrouded tummy.” Oh dear!
These things make the already-
established overseas fashions seem quite
reasonable: The travelling-waistline,
achieved by half-a-yard of elastic blous-
ing the bodice; the giant turtle-neck
collar ; the blousy beret; and the keg-top
jacket (which is described as a pocket-
edition of the barrel-silhouette).
MELBOURNE
At the luncheon given by the Australia
Day Council (Victoria) at the Royale
Ballroom the toast of Australia was pro-
posed by U.K. High Commissioner
Lord Carrington, and was responded to
by Prime Minister R. G. Menzies, tanned
and looking refreshed after his holiday.
Lady Martin, who accompanied her
husband Sir Norman (he is chairman of
the committee), chose a tiny navy straw
hat to match her coat. The Lady
Mayoress (Lady Selleck) wore a navy-
and-white-printed silk frock and small
navy hat trimmed with white. Lady
Herring added to her pink florals a hat
in pink tonings. Lady Burston was also
in floral silks, hers green, with a dark-
green hat finished at one side-with two
white roses. Lady Knox’s linen-tweed
ensemble was patterned in grey and
white. Mrs. Ray Joseph’s attractive
powder-puff hat of tulle matched her
cinnamon silk frock.
V & V
When the Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks,
opened the exhibition of paintings by
Alex Saint-Paull at the Athenaeum he
was accompanied by Lady Brooks, who
wore a mist-blue Princess-coat of light-
weight wool and a tiny white straw hat
with an undulating brim wreathed with
field-flowers. Among those who attended
were Reshid Bey, Madame Bey and
their son Zia, the painter’s sister, Mrs.
Randell Taylor (in smart black coat
and high-crowned brimless hat of cham-
pagne tulle), Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh, Mrs.
lan Miller, Mrs. John Forster, Mrs. Peter
Howson, Mrs. Frank Nicholls, Paddy
Wilkinson and Vivienne Betty Stephens
and her sister Roma.
☆ ☆ *
Mr. and Mrs. Trevor Clarke, of Devon
Park, Dunkeld, have chosen Friday,
March 8, for the coming-out dance they
will give for their daughter Carmen; it’s
to be held at the Toorak home of Mrs.
Edward Shackell, who is Carmen’s grand-
mother.
☆ ☆ ☆
Miss Edith Mountain, who has been
appointed headmistress of the Church of
England Girls Grammar School in suc-
cession to Miss Dorothy Ross, is at
present senior biology-mistress at the
Putney High School, England. Educated
at Nottingham High School for Girls,
Miss Mountain' is an Honors graduate
of London University, where she specia-
lised in biology and botany; she trained
as a teacher at Cambridge. Her wide
interests include music, and travel. Miss
Mountain expects to leave for Australia
in July.
☆☆ . ☆
Members of the Little Theatre Players
Club and the Little Theatre Guild com-
bined to give a gay farewell-party in the
foyer of the Little Theatre for director
Peter Randall before he left for
England. Mrs. Randall wore an
off-the-shoulder frock of carbon-
blue pure-silk. At the party
were Peter’s father, Brett Randall, and
Irene Mitchell (who are co-directors of
the Little Theatre with Peter), Mr. and
Mrs. John Casson, Mrs. Hal Percy, Mrs.
Juddie James, Mr. and Mrs. Robert
Gardiner, Betty Rechter, Peggy Marks,
Charmian Jacka, Mrs. Dolya Ribush,
Pauline Aulton, and Beverley Dunn.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Selleck are
receiving congratulations on the birth,
at the Mercy Hospital, of their daughter,
who will be christened Jane Liane. This
is the first granddaughter for the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr. Sir
Frank and Lady Selleck) and a second
granddaughter for Mrs. Selleck’s parents,
Mr. and Mrs. E. A. French, of Brighton.
* ☆ ■*
Mrs. W. K. Burnside, who has returned
to town with her husband after having
spent a holiday with their son-in-law and
daughter, Mr. and Mrs. David Raeburn-
Brown, at Rosewood (N.S.W.), has given
years of service to two hospitals: the
Royal Melbourne and Prince Henry’s.
She is president of the Royal Melbourne
Hospital Almoners Auxiliary, and her
committee has raised thousands of
pounds for this work, which includes
maintaining ambulances. As president of
auxiliaries for Prince Henry’s Hospital,
Mrs. Burnside has similarly been
responsible for filling the coffers there.
Her long service in these causes was
rewarded with an 0.8. E. in the New
Year honors.
In 1951 Margaret Wheeler, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Wheeler, of Mildura,
was chosen by photographers as their
“Model of the Year” Four years later
she had put in study of fashion-goods
and fabrics to such effect that she was
sent abroad on a buying-mission by a
group of manufacturers. Her mission, in
turn, was so successful that she has just
left on her second tour. While on the
Continent Margaret will have a skiing
holiday in the Swiss Alps. Photo by
Athol Shmith.
Leslie, daughter of Mr. E. R. Reynolds,
Q.C., of Toorak, has, with her' fiance,
lan Hayne, chosen April 26 for their
wedding, which will be celebrated at St.
John’s Church, Toorak. Reception will
be at the Windsor Hotel. Katherine
Roberts will be matron-of-honor (she
will marry John Palliser on February 7).
Also in attendance will be Julia Reynolds,
Rowena Hayne and Jennifer Browning,
with Susan Hayne the flower-girl.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the smartest women at Caulfield
for the Melbourne Racing Club’s first
meeting of the year was Mrs. A. L.
Walters, wife of Air-Vice-Marshal
Walters. Her black lightweight-wool
coat, cut high to the neck and edged with
braid, was worn with a white flower-hat
finished with one large chrysanthemum.
With Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Smith were
Mr. and Mrs. Ray McAuley, of Port
Augusta (S.A.). Mrs. Robert Gove, wife
of the chairman of the M.R.C., enter-
tained a large party at luncheon. She
wore a handsome cinnamon-brown faille
Princess-coat and small matching hat,
and among her guests were Lady Festing
(her husband is General Sir Francis
Festing, Commander-in-Chief, Far East
Land Forces), wearing a jacket-suit of
grey Dacron and a red straw cloche;
Mrs. Wellby (wife of Rear-Admiral
Wellby) in Princess-coat of pink brocade
and small matching hat; Lady Warner,
whose haze-blue wool suit went with a
small matching-tulle hat; and Mrs. W. K.
Burnside, whose choice was a brown
lightweight-wool suit and green shot-
taffeta hat.
Mrs. Max Shaw’s silk frock, patterned
in emerald-green and black, was worn
with a beige straw platter-hat trimmed
with matching roses. Mrs. Kel Atherton
allied a tangerine linen sheath-frock with
a brown straw mushroom-hat. Mrs.
Gordon Fraser topped her white waffle-
everglaze frock, patterned in fine black
trees, with a large black picture-hat. Mrs.
James Alston’s frock, in the Oriental
trend, was of-white floral silk, slimly cut
and with a high Mandarin-collar. A
powder-blue swathed-chiffon toque was
worn by Mrs. W. B. Faulkner with a
black silk-faille coat.


ARTS
Circular Chart! for all type*
of Recording Instrument*
»or any clast of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
ACCURACY GUARANTEED
JAC*kW¥ O'SULLIVANfMtt.
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
C lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Don Giovanni”
When Mozart and his
librettist Da Ponte were in
Prague collaborating in the
writing of this, their finest work
for the lyric-stage, they chanced
to meet Da Ponte’s old friend
Casanova, who, his amours
behind him, was then engaged in
writing his celebrated memoirs,
and, according to legend,
Casanova’s rich experience was
put to service in rounding-out
the many fast-moving situations
in which arch-libertine Don
Giovanni figures. gj
Be that as it may, the plot
is a masterly blend of tragedy
and comedy, and the composer
fitted to it a score that is as
near-perfect as any extant, with
a profusion of wonderful arias
and ensembles all reflecting each
character and his or her part
in the plot.
For its Sydney presentation of
the opera the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust was fortunate to
have an actor and singer with
the style, resource and power of
John Shaw. Suave, ruthless and
backed by a virile baritone, he
was the complete villain.
Keith Neilson’s Leporello
carried a good measure of cynic-
ism, and listed the astronomical
conquests of his graceless master
with telling effect in the famous
“Catalogue” aria. Stanley Clark-
son was an imposing Com-
mendatore, and his make-up as
the statue blasphemously invited
to supper by the libertine who
slew him was most effective;
his finely controlled bass was
invested with the needed
sepulchral quality. Tenor Max
Worthley sang the two big arias
allotted to Don Ottavio in good
voice, and generally acquitted
himself well in what is admittedly
a thankless role.
Joyce Simmons brought a
soprano of quality and weight
to the role of the unhappy
Donna Anna; Nita Maughan
was a vengeful Donna Elvira,
and sang with good judgment;
Valda Bagnall, if not so impres-
sive vocally as in “Figaro”
(though she combined well
enough with shaw in the cele-
brated duet “Give Me Thy
Hand”), conveyed the shallow-
ness of the peasant girl Zerlina.
Her oafish fiancd Masetto was
capitally sung by Neil Warren-
Smith.
Enunciation all round was
excellent, giving the best effect
to a clear translation by Dennis
Arundell, whose smooth-running
production was climaxed by an
ingenious device in the scene
where the Don is dragged down
to Hell by the statue of the man
he had murdered.
Kenneth Rowell’s scenery and
costumes gave polish to the pro-
duction, and his drop-scenes
speeded-up the changes—import-
ant in an opera of 12 scenes.
Joseph Post handled his forces
with a sure and firm control.
“Cosi Fan Tutti”
It is difficult now to believe
that this opera, the last in which
Mozart and Da Ponte combined,
was once regarded as a failure.
The plot, though thistledown, is
undeniably funny; Da Ponte’s
handling of the material is
astute and resourceful, and his
words, even in translation,' have
wit and polish.
Moreover, Mozart’s score,
though, unlike his other three,
it has no famous arias, still has
gracefulness, is pervaded by a
lively sense of satire and is
studded with some beautiful
concerted numbers for the
mezzo- and lyric-sopranos.
The singing of these by Wilma
Whitney and Marjorie Conley
was one of the most pleasing
features of the Elizabethan Trust
production. Miss Whitney
cleverly kept her stronger voice
down to blend with the lighter
voice of Miss Conley, and the
two of them succeeded in
capturing the fluttering uncer-
tainties and, later, the increas-
ingly bold coquettishness, of the
characters. As the intriguing
maid Despina, Jennifer Eddy
sang and acted spiritedly.
Geoffrey Chard used his bari-
tone with style and an easy
assurance, and baritone John
Cameron and tenor Kevin
Miller sang very well and got a
lot of fun out of their roles as
the two disillusioned lovers.
The gay and sparkling pro-
duction by Stephan Haag was
elegantly dressed by Louis
Kahan, and Tim Walton’s rococo
settings were a fitting back-
ground for the brittle artificiality
of 18th-century extravagance.
The orchestra under Eric
Clapham was occasionally too
heavy-handed notably during
the first act’s splendid trio for
the men, who had to call on their
considerable combined power to
get over the top of it.
♦3• »>* *I«
“The Wooden Dish”
“The Wooden Dish,” a new
play by Edmund Morris, was
served on a silver tray by the
Melbourne Little Theatre at its
brand-new £50,000 playhouse at
South Yarra —the Little Theatre’s
226th production.
The theatre, built on the tiny
site of the old St. Chad’s Church,
astonishingly enough accom-
modates 400, and it was packed
to the ceiling ; it will remain
packed for the three-weeks’
season, while a waiting-list of 300
would-be subscribers clamor
outside.
All this is a tribute to Brett
Randall, father, mother and
midwife of this sturdy infant.
He was standing in the box-office
raking in the shillings, which will
be spent on fresh productions,
for which his son Peter, the
director, is scouting overseas.
“The Wooden Dish” is con-
cerned with the plight of the
aged. Pop Dennison’s period of
usefulness in this world is over;
he might shuffle off this mortal
coil any moment, or he might
last quite a time. Glenn, his son,
likes the garrulous old buffer,
and Pop dotes on Glenn. Glenn’s
wife, Clara, doesn’t like him, and
he doesn’t like her, but she has
to look after the old nuisance,
so she is in the position of
Martha in the Bible story.
A family conference ensues.
Clara doesn’t want to waste the
remainder of her life looking
after somebody else’s father, so
she makes conditions: unless
Glenn sends the old boy to a
home for the aged she will go
off with Ed, the lodger. Glenn
likes his father, but he doesn’t
want to lose his wife, so he
sacrifices the old man on the
altar of home-comfort. But
when the old chap, knowing
nothing of the arrangements that
are being made for his welfare,
gives him a tender look and
talks hopefully of the future
Glenn is horrified at his own
decision and rescinds it, where-
upon his wife goes off in a fury
and starts packing. She is look-
ing for Ed when her daughter
Susan intercepts her and blurts
out the information that it is she
who is going off with the lodger.
Ed enters at that moment, and,
confronted by two desperate
females each regarding him as
a knight in shining armor, goes
at the knees and washes his hands
of all responsibility in the matter.
Completely abandoned, Pop
locks himself in a cupboard,
refusing to come out or even
to answer the agitated appeals of
his family. There is dead
silence inside the cupboard. Has
the old fellow suicided? No, he
hasn’t. When the superintendent
of the home for the aged arrives,
out he comes and proudly says
that now he knows that he’s not
wanted he won’t hang about the
place for another moment.
“But,” he says with dignity to
Clara, “look at your daughter!
Look at yourself! Look at me!
You’ll be an old woman some-
day, as I am an old man. Say
to yourself, ‘As I am now, so
once was he; as he is now, so
I may be,’ and see how you
like it.”
Having dropped his bomb-
shell, the old boy shuffles off
after the superintendent of the
home for the aged, who looks
“ There's no vanilla in the trifle!”
as jolly as if he had dropped a
penny and picked up a
sovereign.
It is a universal problem which
Mr. Morris dramatises with
great skill and feeling. There
are no villains in it and no
heroes but only ordinary
bewildered people, and all the
play needs to make it really
profound is some sort of Greek
chorus. However, Pop did a
relatively good job in that
direction in his farewell address
to his bedevilled family, and he
was extraordinarily well acted
by Lewis Tegart. In fact, all
the actors were remarkably well-
chosen. Charmihn Jacka, as
Clara, Peter Aanensen, as her
husband, Beverley Smith, as their
daughter, and Kevin Colebrook
as the spry little superintendent,
fitted their parts as a cork fits
a bottle.
♦2* *!♦
Magic Garden
[From Herbert Holman, London]
“The Prince of the Pagodas”
(Covent Garden) has made
history by being the first all-
British full-length ballet with a
commissioned score. As with
all three-act ballets, it runs to
length, and, unlike the stretch
of “Giselle” and “Swan Lake,”
the length’s far too much.
John Cranko’s scenario is an
unexceptional fairytale which he
has furbished with quite excep-
tional variations. In Act I the
divertissement supports the
uncomplicated plot (no synopsis
appears in the programme). A
comic-paper King has two
daughters, good Belle Rose and
nasty Belle Epine. Belle Rose,
bullied and insulted by her
sister, is snatched away by a
magic Salamander, sees her lover
in a vision before a cloud of
real smoke, and takes to the air
on a frog-borne litter.
Act II takes her, in scene (i),
on a “strange voyage” through
the elements to scene (ii), the
kingdom of the pagodas, where,
as a diversion from Salamander-
dalliance, the pagodas come to
life with a gauche obviousness
that a producer of pantomimes
would sedulously avoid.
Act 111 peturns to the Court
of the Emperor, now degraded
and encaged by the Goneril-like
daughter. The Prince —late
Salamander —and his bride
return, Good triumphs over
Evil, and the entire Court
celebrates with another
divertissement. This, though
splendidly conceived and
executed, has long outdistanced
the story.
In sum, the evening is an act
too long. However ingenious
the choreography and the music,
the ballet drags and the padding
distracts. The dancing of the
Sadler’s Wells company, if at
times overdemanding in acro-
batics, is vigorous and expert.
•Beriosova’s Belle Rose is smooth
and poignant. The courtship-
dance of the King of the South
(Gary Burne) in jazz idiom,
David Blair’s unaffected Prince,
Pirmin Trecu’s double of the
Good Fool and one of the
Fishes, and a really eloquent
pas-de-six in Act 111 are all
memorable.
To quote from another, less
fantastically Occidental Royal
Household: “If t’were done,
then t’were well t’were done
quickly.” But ’tis well enough
done. The enormous cost is
justified and success is assured.
Benjamin Britten’s score is
bold, inventive and dynamic,
but, again, is unable to sustain
the two-and-a-half hours. He
has a full orchestra at his com-
mand, and calls upon its entire
resources. His chinoiserie, neo-
classicism and astringent, will
recall Ravel, Stravinsky and
Prokofieff, but in evolution
rather than in parody or
pastiche. Some of his atmos-
pheric touches are brilliant. One
example is the use of a solo
saxophone to express the nasty
daughter’s vanity and hard-
heartedness towards her father.
Whether the score, judiciously
edited, can stand on its own
remains to be seen. It has not
the easy, emotional sway of
Tschaikowsky, nor the inspired
economy of Stravinsky. But at
last Britten seems to have broken
away from his esoteric seclusion
and Widened his musical out-
look —a departure which, in
composing for the theatre, is
long overdue.
Artbursts
Alexander Saint-Paull
Alexander Saint-Paull, an
Adelaide artist who left that city
27 years ago to paint in Paris
and, now returned, is showing his
works at the Athenaeum Gallery,
Melbourne, is an astonishing
phenomenon for this age of
shifting art-values.
His 30-odd pictures include
portraits of Admiral the Earl
Mountbatten, the Countess
Mountbatten, the Hon. Mrs.
Michael Astor, La Baronne de
Forest, Mme. Floricel Constante-
nesco, the Hon. Arthur Savy and
sundry elegantly dressed ladies
who can be identified as well-
known mannequins of Paris. All
the portraits have been loaned
by their owners.
This is surprising enough to
anyone who knows Paris and
how difficult it is for even the
most fashionable artists to get
commissions of this exalted
order. What is more surprising
is that Mr. Saint-Paull’s style of
painting is as completely un-
touched by Dadaism, cubism,
futurism, vorticism, Picassoism,
or any of the other “isms” which
have raged in the world’s artistic
Mecca since he took up his
residence in it, as it is by impres-
sionism or by Rembrandt, Corot
or Velasquez.
If his art belongs to any
school it is to the school of
magazine-cover illustration. If
a man in a frock-coat trad
striped trousers, with a monocle
in his eye and a tophat on his
head, plunged into a thickset
hedge reinforced with barbed-
wire and emerged on the other
side with the monocle and the
tophat still intact and not a tear
in his trousers he would perform
a feat in the physical world no
more remarkable than Mr. Saint-
Paull appears to have done in the
artistic.
/
❖ ❖ ♦>
It isn’t talent that is lacking
among the students of the
National Gallery school in Mel-
bourne ; in their annual exhibi-
tion, now open to the public,
that is evidenced by their
drawings, which are of a rela-
tively high standard. It is when
they use a brush that they seem
to go haywire. The girl who
draws a foot or a hand or a
head from a cast does it quite
nicely—she isn’t trying to make
it look like something else —but
when she tries to paint a nude
or a group of figures or a house
she seems to be trying to make
her work look like somebody
else’s picture. The result is that
almost all the pictures have the
appearance of having been
painted by the same hand, not
by individual students.
Talkies
“Odongo” (Sydney Capitol):
African-safari opus,, with the
inevitable glamorous young
thing (in this case she is a vet.
who acts as if she doesn’t know
a hock from a wither) to add
romantic interest. Her perm,
remains perfect, even immedi-
ately after a trek through a
steamy jungle, and she wears
Park-avenue clothes at night
while lions roar just outside the
tent. As the chief animal-catcher,
Macdonald Carey goes through
the motions of believing in all
the unrealities of the story.


OUR FIRST
By BERNARD HARRIS
WE were playing round
about one of the
puddles in Centennial
Park. Big Bill Holden
was showing us how to use a
hose from a pool and we had
gear all over the landscape when
suddenly he took a nose-dive.
To us there was nothing
beyond the power of Big Bill.
In the most dashing style
imaginable he had shown us
how to run up ladders without
going green from airsickness;
how to gallop up and down
innumerable stairs running out
a hose without resigning halfway
through the exercise ; how to tear
about in respirators without
gnawing through the mouthpiece.
He looked as if he could have
managed to get to a fire on the
moon, and beaten it too: Yet,
there he Was, standing quietly
explaining something about a
pump when he just turned purple
and keeled over.
If it had been someone else,
even if he had died on the spot,
we might have gone about the
business of attending him
calmly enough, but the fact that
it was Big Bill sent us into a
flap. For a minute or two we
fumbled about trying to revive
him, while he lay there senseless
and inert.
“It’s some kind of a fit he’s
thrown,” said Jerry Chambers.
“Might be a heart-attack.”
“We couldn’t do much about
it even if we knew what it was.”
“We’ll have to get him to a
doctor.”
“The only thing’s to call an
ambulance.”
“We’re in the sticks. He’ll be
dead before we get to a phone
if he’s as bad as all that.”
“What’s wrong with the
engine?”
“We’re rookies! ” said Jerry
Chambers, aghast at the
suggestion. “We’d go for a row
if we drove the engine.”
“If it was the first rocket-ship
to Mars we’d have to use it in a
case like this.”
“We’ve all got our licences.”
“Not to shoot about in this
gig, we haven’t,” said Jerry
Chambers, but as he said it he
was helping Snowy White lift Big
Bill on the wagon and make
him comfortable.
I climbed into the driver’s
seat, and the four of us shot
through for St. Vincent’s, leaving
the others to mind the gear
until we got back.
TT was remarkable how big I
1 felt as for the first time in
my life I found myself with a
real fire-engine in my grasp ; and
this feeling on top of my anxiety
about Big Bill left me no qualms
about treading hard on both the
siren and the accelerator, so that
when we entered the Paddington
traffic we found ourselves lifting
along at sixty between the
stationary trams and vehicles
hastily drawn to the side. After
a few narrow squeaks we
managed to deliver the patient
safely to St. Vincent’s casualty.
“It’s bad enough for you to
drive this thing,” said Jerry
Chambers, as we re-embarked,
“without shooting-up the whole
town' Remember, we’re not
going to a fire.”
Partly because I had some-
what scared myself on the way
out, I drove sedately now, the
fiery contraption looking so
sheepish that pedestrians stared
at it as if there was something
funny about it. Motorists,
having taken a half-scared glance
at it, went relievedly back to the
serious business of permanently
disabling each other.
And in Darlinghurst-road, as
we pulled up behind a heap of
traffic at a busy intersection,
there, right beside us, almost
near enough for us to reach out
and touch, was a house on fire,
an old three-storied house con-
verted into flats with an assort-
ment of flames and smoke
visible through a third-story
window and someone screaming
blue murder.
■pOR a moment I observed the
stirring spectacle with some
interest, for from infancy I had a
soft spot for fires; and then I
felt a bit silly as I became aware
of unusual reactions among the
motorists and pedestrians
near by.
They were eyeing us rather
meaningly, even pointing at us ;
some even seemed to be beckon-
ing us and calling out things
which, many of them, were far
from complimentary. Then two
alarming realisations simul-
taneously illumined my mind:
the first, that we were for all
the world like real firemen on a
fire-engine and everybody was
expecting us to do something;
the second, that the firemen’s
strike hadn’t endeared the service
to the man-in-the-street and that,
if we just drove on and left the
fire well alone, as obedient
trainees should do, we wouldn’t
exactly help to make the service
more beloved.
“We can’t do anything about
it,” said Jerry Chambers
urgently; and Snowy White just
sat there admiring the fire.
Of course we could do nothing
about it. We were probationers,
expressly forbidden to expose
ourselves to the danger of a real
fire. Later on we could singe an
eyebrow or two in the service
without fear of a reprimand;
but for the present, until we
were fully-fledged firemen, we
had to stay away from fires
altogether.
“There might be someone in
there,” said Jerry speculatively.
“Why don’t you get flame-
throwers and make a good job
of it?” a fat female bystander
called out; and, as if to prove
Jerry’s surmise, a woman at that
moment poked her head out of
one of the second-story windows,
gaped at the crowd which was
gathering below, craned her neck
up at the fire above, opened her
mouth and let out a real scream.
It was enough to touch any
gallant heart. Being, by reason
of my position at the wheel,
virtually in charge of the squad,
I made the decision for the lot
of us just as the traffic in front
of me began to move.
“We’ll all get the boot!”
called Jerry loudly.
“Would you rather we had a
good look at it and sheered off?”
I asked as I stamped on the
siren, wheeled the engine round
and pulled into the kerb.
“I’m telling you you’re doing
the wrong thing,” protested Jerry
Chambers, but he was the first to
grab a chemic and dash into the
lobby and up the stairs.
“I still say we shouldn’t touch
thd damned thing with a forty-
foot ,pole,” Jerry panted over his
shoulder.
“Let’s have a look, anyway,
then we can drive away and
let it burn,” I said.
npHERE was one door open on
the landing of the third floor
and Jerry barged straight through
it, almost skittling a woman who
sat on a chair in the passage with
a telephone in her hand and a
look of utter bewilderment on
her face as she saw us.
“Oh, you’re quick!” she
exclaimed. “I’ve just finished
ringing for you! ”
“Where is it?” asked Jerry,
as if he sought something much
more commonplace than a fire.
“I’ve got them in the den and
they’re all upset,” she said as
she jumped to her feet and
hastened to lead us to “it,” feel-
ing in her apron-pocket as she
went. But she found the door
blocked by a skinny blonde girl
talking about a Persian cat, and
a buxom matron wringing her
hands about a brat called Betty,
both of the newcomers
apparently under the impression
that the subjects of their conver-
sation Were very likely in the
fire.
I pushed our guide through
the road-block and followed her
to a door which she opened with
the key she had found in her
apron-pocket. Smoke billowed
out into the landing, showing
that she had effectively locked-
in the fire when she had gone
to ring for the brigade. She
stepped aside and looked at us
as if to say, “Now you’ve been
introduced, everything’ll be all
right.”
We all stood for a moment
staring at the wall of smoke in
the doorway, obviously wonder-
ing what to do first; then,
spurred on by a semi-hysterical
bulletin from our female
entoufage reporting that either
the Persian cat or Betty had
come to light and that the missing
one was certainly trapped behind
the smoke, I lifted my chemic in
front of me like a rifle at the
ready and dashed across the
threshold —only to get my feet
mixed-up with something that
seemed like a pair of skates or
a child’s tricycle and to measure
my length on a heavily-piled
hall-runner.
As I fell I emitted sundry
sounds, which must have been
full of meaning for Jerry
Chambers; who, as I groped
about, feeling for my fallen
weapon, let me have the full
force of his in the chest, so that
I came up looking like an
escapee from a snowstorm.
I found my chemic, groped
my way along the hall, the
smoke thinning as I approached
the open windows through which
we had first seen evidences of the
blaze, and presently came upon
the seat of the .fire, a kerosene-
heater which had misbehaved
for the ladies our guide had in
her den. The heater was fuming,
some upholstery and hangings
were alight, a window-frame and
some flooring were smouldering,
and the plaster walls and ceiling
were somewhat scorched; but
the damage was ridiculously
light “considering.”
pVERYTHING but the heater
itself responded instantly to
the foam we squirted round;
and thus, if we could assume that
nothing succeeded like success
even in the Fire Service, we were
safe from serious censure.
“Get the thing out of here,”
I said, and Jerry picked up the
heater and towed it away through
the smoke-filled passage.
“Give us a leg,” I said and,
climbing on to Snowy White’s
shoulder, I pushed up the
blackened manhole-cover to see
if any of the wood round it had
managed to smoulder through
into the roof-cavity. I gave him
the office that I no longer needed
his support and began to hoist
up my legs. There was a
terrible yell from somewhere
near by; I changed my grip to
the counter-joist end of the
manhole ; and, the moment the
manhole took my full weight
it collapsed. In my turn I yelled
out that I was on my way down,
but my head was above ceiling-
level, so that Snowy didn’t hear
me and received me in the middle
of his back.
He lay still under me for a
time, and I had to shake him
considerably before he showed
any disposition to rise.
“It must be the kid!” I said
urgently, referring to the yells
that had continued throughout
my fall and recovery. I followed
the track of the bloodcurdling
sounds down the hall away from
the front door, and as I
approached their source I felt
relief as I realised that they were
uttered in too deep a baritone
to be the effort of a child.
“The bloody thing shut on me,
and it’s not the bathroom at all,”
a voice seemed to be saying
through the commotion.
Coming face to face with a
door that quivered and blew
wisps of smoke through the
crack above it, I hacked at it
three times with my axe before
I realised that the Yale lock was
on my side. It was a balcony-
room so filled with smoke that
it looked like the cellar, and it
was some moments before we
located Jerry Chambers and his
heater.
“It’s a sunroom,” he said. “I
thought it was the bathroom and
the door locked on me, and I
left my chemic behind. It’s been
going up like a rocket again.”
A couple of cane-chairs and
part of a weatherboard wall were
making something of a show,
but the heater was still the main
trouble. Jerry seemed to have
lost most of the down from his
chin as well as the hair off his
head, but he showed himself still
capable of fighting on.
“What did I say?” he said.
“We should have left this well
alone.”
T EAVING Jerry and Snowy
to do battle with the sun-
room, I picked up the heater,
walked about with it until I
found the bathroom and dumped
it in the shower-recess ; but the
moment the full force of the
shower hit it, it went off like a
bomb.
Nothing but the blast hit me,
but kerosene went everywhere,
and the part of the contraption
that seemed to be fuming most
went skidding out the door and
ended up under a double-bed.
All the readily-inflammables
must have been well-sprayed
with kerosene, for they seemed
to go up spontaneously.
Intent on switching Jerry and
Snowy from the sunroom to the
new seat of operations and
myself fetching chemic rein-
forcements from the engine
below, I was brought to a
sudden halt in the middle of the
hall#’ by the spectacle of the
sitting-room, the scene of our
original fire, blazing in spots as
merrily as if we hadn’t dealt
with it at all.
For a moment I stood aghast
in the realisation, not so much
of the extent of our achievements
to date, as of the speed with
which we had attained them.
The radio-crooner, who as we
went into action had begun an
echoing number as though
performing with his head in the
domestic end of a sewer, was in
the act of dragging his refrain
to a conclusion, yet in the space
of his short and painful song we
had done what any ordinary
incendiarist might have taken
fifteen minutes to do ; and for
good measure we had half-
crippled Snowy, singed Jerry
hairless and sustained sundry
wounds, none of them quite
fatal, in our blind bargings
through the murky rooms.
But hope springs eternal, and
it sprang now with a determina-
tion to atone. Hastily giving the
alarm to the others, I bolted
down the stairs, pursued by an
old gentleman trying to sell me
the information that the land-
lady had done a spot of arson.
As I collected the chemics, I
couldn’t help noting the size of
the crowd that was collecting in
appreciation of our performance.
From the large number who
stood in the front ranks clutch-
ing treasured possessions, it was
obvious that our efforts had
helped to evacuate not only the
burning building but also every
dwelling within cooee.
CJOMEHOW elated by the
sight of the vast audience
we had attracted, I raced back
up the stairs, followed by an
hysterical woman trying to tell
me that the fire on the third
story was a judgment on a loose-
liver in the basement.
Then we really prepared to
go to work —Jerry in the living-
room and Snowy and I in the
bedroom, which by now was a
minor inferno, as bedrooms are
apt to become when sprayed
with kerosene and ignited. It
did not take any of us ten
seconds to realise that we were
expecting too much of the
chemics ; and, to make it worse,
every one of them I had hauled
up had been exhausted in train-
ing earlier in the morning.
“What did I tell you?” said
Jerry Chambers. “We stuck our
necks out, all right.”
“If those hoses weren’t
scattered about the park!”
“We couldn’t use them if we
had them,” said Jerry in disgust
at our tried-and-proven in-
adequacy.
“I wish the fire-engine’d turn
up quick,” said Snowy White.
Wffiile Jerry raced down to the
engine, Snowy and I, besides
keeping an eye on the job and
in the process observing that the
fire in the sunroom had come
to life again, did some panicky
steam-making with kitchen
utensils and water from the taps.
By this time the place looked
completely doomed and there


Chateau Tanunda “Historical Firsts' '*
No. 32*
\
K/
*
s'
-J .
X
The "Spitfire", first war vessel built in the colony ,
The First Vessel built in Australia
The first vessel built in Australia was a 10-
ton boat popularly called “The Lump” be-
cause of the large amount of timber that
went'into its construction. It was launched
in October, 1789 (the year after the First
Fleet arrived), and its official name was the
“Rose Hill Packet.”
“The Lump” was built on the east side of Sydney
Cove and was used for transporting stores between
Sydney and Parramatta.
When Phillip brought the First Fleet to
Australia, he was specifically forbidden to allow the
building of any craft that might be used for travel
to India, China or the Pacific Islands. As a result,
the first boats built here were all small and were
designed for no more arduous sea journeys than
trips to the Hawkesbury.
The largest of them was a 25-ton sloop built at
Norfolk Island in 1789. This was called the
“Norfolk” and in it Flinders and Bass made the
first trip round Tasmania.
A naval yard was established on the western
side of Sydney Cove in 1796 by Governor Hunter.
In 1800, this yard launched the 28-ton “Cumber-
land” in which Flinders sailed for England after
the loss of the “Porpoise.” Between 1800-16, the
yard built the 150-ton “Elizabeth Henrietta” which
was described as “a very handsome and valuable
acquisition to our maritime concerns.” __
The first vessel privately built in Australia for
trading purposes was the sloop “Contest" (44 tons),
which was completed in May, 1804. Three months
earlier, a survey showed that there were 16 vessels
in Port Jackson that had been built in Sydney and
five others that had been built on the Hawkesbury.
These vessels were mainly used in the Hawkesbury
trade, carrying coal from Newcastle to Sydney and
>n sealing in Bass Strait. The largest was of 38 tons.
For the first 25 years of white settlement in
Australia, no vessel could be built without the
Governor's approval and bonds had to be given
that locally-built craft would not trade outside New
South Wales and its dependencies. In 1813, the
East India Company's monopoly came to an end
and the position eased ; thereafter builders were
able to construct vessels for trade in the Indian
and Pacific Oceans.
As settlement extended north along the coast
from Sydney and suitable timbers were found, ship-
building yards were established on the northern
rivers. From one of these yards—at Clarence
Town on the Williams River—came the first steam-
ship built in Australia. This was the “William
the Fourth." Built of flooded gum and ironbark,
the “Puffing Billy" as She was jocularly called was
80 ft. long and had a 15 ft. beam. She was launched
in October, 1831. The “Puffing Billy” had a jet
condensing engine, but her skipper was reported to
have said that she had not enough power to get
into danger.
Like the “Sophia Jane” (a paddle-wheeler that
had b'een built in Britain and arrived at Sydney in
May, 1831), the “William the Fourth” ran for
some years in the Hunter River trade. The
“Sydney Gazette" called her “that beautiful speci-
men of colonial enterprise.” By the end of the
1830’s, ten steamers were running on the N.S.W.
coast.
The first war vessel built in Australia was a 60-
ton ketch the “Spitfire,” built by John Cuthbert at
Darling Harbour near Millers Point, and launched
in 1855. Her armament wajs a 32-pounder gun.
From these beginnings the Australian ship-
building industry has developed. Warships, large
cargo ships up to 12,500 tons and scores of smaller
vessels have been constructed. In the five years
1950-54 alone, Australia built 65 ships of more
than 77,500 tons.
First in Quality—First in Favour
CHATEAU TANUNDA
\ ' (
A Product of the House of Seppelt
★ ★ it
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
N.S.W. Agents: 335 Kent St., Sydney
Distributors of fine spirits for 118 years
*Copies of each of the series printed on Art Paper, available free on application to Tucker & Co. Pty. Limited
HF32
was so much fire on all sides of
us that Snowy and I felt doomed
too, a circumstance that seemed
quite incidental and somehow
appropriate to the occasion. As
the fire grew, the heroic explana-
tions of our having endangered
our precious hides, based on the
upholding of the honor of the
Fire Service, quickly shrank to
helpless dimensions in my mind,
and I lost all zest for life.
TUST when it seemed that the
J certainty of our doom was
complete, we heard the engines.
“They’ll give us a hand now,”
I said.
“They’ll have hoses,” said
Snowy, as if our lack of hoses
was all that had stood between
the fire and instant extinction.
The firemen burst through the
smoke, hard on Jerry’s heels, as
if they had chased him up the
-6
stairs. The entire Metropolitan
Fire Service, helmets and hoses
and all, seemed to pour towards
the inferno, racing about check-
ing rooms for possible occupants,
attending gas- and electric-
appliances, all obviously im-
pressed by the fact that the fire
had broken out in three places
simultaneously, and some asking
who the hell we thought we were.
“They’ll kick you to blazes for
this,” the fire-officer, into whose
ear Jerry had poured some kind
of a tale, assured us.
In the light of subsequent
painful interviews, it would
perhaps have been easier for us
to have cast ourselves bodily into
the flames rather than, as we
somehow managed to do,
descend the stairs in obedience
to the counsel to “get from under
our bloody feet.”
“We didn’t do so bad,” said
Snowy White as we stood watch-
ing the firemen subduing our
handiwork, “considering it was
our first.”
“But bad enough,” said Jerry
Chambers, “for it to be our last.”
I was inclined to the moderate
view, feeling that, as we had
acted from the noble motive of
preserving the honor of the
Force, the fire might be as much
discounted as that which merely
subserved the glory of Joan of
Arc.
“Oxen Conductors”
By M. B. HICKS
I STARED resentfully up the
road which was fit only for
bullock-wagons, as 1 was no
nearer solving how I’d
replace the two blown-out
tyres.
1 was stranded miles from
Winda, surrounded by a tangle
of trees and vines ; their density
magnified my inadequacy. I
wondered about the Winda
resident who’d audaciously
called it a road.
There was a grain of comfort
in what sounded like a rifle-shot
at frequent intervals, but the
chance of contacting the sports-
man seemed remote. The echoes
and reports grew louder, and
relief overwhelmed my despair,
for accompanying the reports
were the yells of voices that one
would expect of men gone
berserk. Any company was
welcome, and curiosity turned to
interest as I saw a bullock-team
rounding the bend.
Fear for what left of my
bomb precipitated a mad
scramble up the track towards
the teamster. “My truck is
broken down in the middle of
the road,” I shouted. The sweat-
ing, stained face registered mild
surprise.
It appeared as if nothing could
stop that impassive, plodding
string of animals. The old bomb
would be reduced to a heap of
rubbish before the hook-nosed
hawk-faced oaf of a driver could
halt that avalanche of beef on
the hoof.
But the leading animals
merely squeezed unperturbed
round the truck and stopped as
if commanded by telepathy.
TJE coiled his whip and stood
** looking at the truck, waiting
for the other two drivers to join
him.
They did. With great effort
acknowledging my presence, one
of them asked, “Can’t you fix
it?”
“No, I’ve had two blowouts.”
He only grunted, unhooked the
first four animals and
manoeuvred them in front of the
truck.
He said over his shoulder,
“You’d better chuck your gear
on the wagon ; that’ll be here for
a couple of days.”
I had to guess that our destina-
tion would be a village some-
where, as these men imparted
no information that might seem
trivial.
Each -wagon had a load of
three enormous logs, and scaling
them didn’t strengthen my
confidence—the chains seemed
ridiculously small for the weight
they held.
With the truck removed, the
front driver looked at his fellow.
“Where’s ’e gone?” he asked.
The reply was a nonchalant
thumb pointed at me on my
pinnacle.
There seemed to be a smiled
message passed between them.
The animals slowly moved off
with a crack of the seven-foot
whip and a “Git up there, Dusty!
. . . Sailor! . . . Smasher! Bally!
Geeeeed-up sh-sh-sh-sh-sh! ”
And with that last gush of
breath between his teeth and the
load moving at a satisfactory
pace, he eased-off his efforts with
a “Eeee - woop - eeee-woop-eeee-
woe-back! ”
I clung to the logs like a
monkey. When, after a hundred
yards or so, a tree all but swept
me from my pinnacle, I knew
that the grin I had imagined was
their silent way of recognising
a tenderfoot in the mob.
AN reaching the village the
bullocks were unyoked in a
fenced yard. As they were re-
leased the yokes were placed on
the ground in order, so that the
specially-shaped bows would
again be used on the animals
they suited most.
They found a bunk and a
corner in which I could sleep.
After the meal there were a
dozen of us round the galley
fire and they all talked in their
turn. They were highly amused
when I termed them teamsters.
One said, “To most we are plain
bullockies, but we prefer
classed as Oxen Conductors.”
Between arguing and discuss-
ing the snigging of king-logs they
mentioned Blue Travers, who
had recently been killed. His
vvagon was bogged and he'd
ordered his leaders to double-
back between the body of the
team and a near-by tree.
Not doubting their willingness
to do as bid he stood near the
tree, but they had been hard-
pressed and the leaders swung
round in an arc, pulling the rest
of the team against the tree. He’d
had no time to get away, and
was still held against the tree
beyond help when three riders
found him, the animals still rest-
ing against the load.
Recalling this grim incident
sombred the gathering, and they
drifted off to bed, leaving only
Bill Somes and me.
He broke the silence. “You’ll
be here for a couple of days,
huh?” Then, as if forcing his
intent past an obstruction, he
continued, “Come up with us
and see the place from the
mountains if you like.”
I nodded assent.
He said, “I’ll call you.”
So next morning I found
myself huddled in the enclosure,
waiting to see them yoke their
teams.
FOLLOWING their instruc-
tions, I lit a fire to ward-off
the effects of the thick white
frost, over which the steel bows
were warmed so as not to cause
sores on the bullocks’ necks.
The men’s voices could be
heard muffled through the dim
light, and the waiting was
replaced by the clicking of
hooves and the snorts of
animals.
The sun was cracking the
horizon when we reached the
edge of the mountain, which
appeared more than ever like a
vertical block of trees and dense
foliage. The entrance of the
scrub was like an arch, fore-
boding and mysterious.
Climbing the steep hills had
warmed us, but as soon as we
were enveloped by the jungle the
cold damp atmosphere depressed
me; I’d no idea of the obstacles
ahead.
The screeches and whistles of
the birds added to this
momentary eeriness, but I began
to take pleasure in identifying
the monotonous tinkling of the
bellbirds and the whipbirds’
whistle and crack.
There was a particularly bad
patch in the form of a hairpin
bend. The bullockies had carved
their own track out of the moun-
tain, its steepness had forced
them to reverse the direction of
the grade. The turn had to be
cut out of a rocky path to pro-
vide a hard surface on which
the logs could be swung. The
top of the mountain was like
a v billiard-table, and they said
the other side was just as steep.
ZOOMING back, loaded, they
paused long enough to fix
drag-chains before reaching the
U-bend.
The first two drivers went to
the rear to lend a hand. They
remained on the near-side to
force the team over as far as
possible before the turn, and
the other driver was on the
off-side to force them to the
other extreme after the turn.
No one anticipated trouble,
but on the turn the log pivoted
sharply and rolled towards the
mountainside. The driver on
the off-side, too intent on his
efforts, didn’t see the rear
animals dragged over the side,
and only when those nearest him
were dragged to their haunches
did he try to jump clear of
the milling hooves and roiling
beasts.
His two mates shouted at the
team, urging the animals to
exert all their strength to steady
the log, in the hope that it
wouldn’t drag the lot over,
increasing the danger to the man
over the side.
I saw him stagger up over
the side of the track, scratched
and dirty, but still clutching his
whip.
We turned our attention to the
bullocks. One had to be released
by knocking the key out of the
yoke and letting him fall over
the mountainside . . .
It was enough oxen-conducting
for me: I spent the next two
days idling in camp, awaiting
tyres and tubes.


Low's
Autobiography
The label on this one in David Low’s
book is: “Winston Churchill in 1929.”
Further first-hand David Low impressions ... of Lloyd
George . . . Winston Churchill . . . insomnia . . . infallible
cure for personal depression . . . And, to begin with here,
more leading authors met at Robert and Sylvia Lynd’s
literary gatherings.
10
( Continued)
a | HERE were leprechauns at the
bottom of the Lynds’ garden.
Irish geniuses ran in and out of
the shadows in the dusk.
I was not surprised one night
to cannon into James Stephens
sitting behind a bush, looking
as though he had just hidden his
crock of gold; on another, to find
that I shared the moonlight with a
strange, silent figure that turned out to
be James Joyce. He had a sheet of paper
pinned on his back by Sylvia, with a
simply dreadful chunk of poetry to be
guessed.
An embarrassing situation, full of
social risk. We stood together for ten
minutes, but we had nothing to say to
one another. He had no interest in my
work, and I had done my best with his
Ulysses, but it had got away from me.
I had the good fortune to meet one
man with whom my humor clicked.
Philip Guedalla and I differed consider-
ably. His * wit was
immaculate, polished
like himself; mine
was natural and
rough-edged. But we
both saw each other’s
points, and, more-
over, laughed at each
other in the ‘ right
place.
Without doubt
Philip was in his day
the best after-dinner
speaker in London.
He was, of course, a
past-master in the
parodied quotation,
the incongruous
asso c i a tion, the
esoteric pun and the
other conventions
understood by the
educated* Anglo-
Saxon to be the
forms of wit; but in
addition to, and
quite apart from, all
that stuff, he could
be very funny. As
someone else said,
he made all other
after-dinner speakers
sound as though they
had not yet had
dinner.
“Brilliant” is the
one word which the
British recognise as expressive of merit in
the arts of satire, and “brilliant” was the
word he learned to abominate, because in
the mouths of hostile critics it became
a rebuke when he turned to his serious
business in life, politics and the writing of
history.
As befits one of the keenest wits of his
generation, Philip was appreciative of wit
in others. The stairway hall of his home
was hung thick with the caricatures of
Max Beerbohm, including many of Max’s
most indecorous items of Queen Victoria
and Edward VII. We planned to do a
Jf° nStrUCtio , nS °i
7 i personages, ancient and
med eval, deduced from then remams-I
employing my built-up portraiture
method, he correlating a textual synthesis.
It was one of Robert Lynd’s ideas, and
great were the three-cornered arguments
as to whether Philip of Macedon was a
fattish type, what Cesare Borgia looked
like when the painters were not flattering
him, what kind of a nose Akhnaton had
and how far it was possible to guess the
character and even the appearance of
Cheops from the fact that he built the
first Pyramid.
I do not suppose such a book would
have sold, and it would have been a vast
labor of research and thought, but it
would have been a lovely job. One of my
lasting regrets is that it came to nothing.
ANOTHER fairly constant visitor at
the Lynds’ in the nineteen-twenties
was Humbert Wolfe, another chap who
kept me rippling with laughter.
It was Humbert’s complaint that
Robert used humorously to introduce him
as “Humbert Wolfe, the civil servant —
does a bit o’ poetry on the side,” instead
of “Humbert Wolfe, the poet—does a
bit o’ civil service on the side.”
Humbert, feeling that he and his last
book of poems had been insufficiently
appreciated, put an anonymous advertise-
ment in the “Times” offering five-
guineas for a copy of it. Persons who
replied were told that they were too
late, and no copies actually changed
hands at that price. But as the news
of this advertised evidence of increased
value spread, Humbert had the innocent
SHOWING THEIR AFFECTION
(Comment on the strain put on the Anglo-French Entente with Lloyd George leading
a demobilising Britain and militant Poincare leading France. “I always,” says Low,
“had the greatest difficulty in making LI. G. sinister in a cartoon.. ...I had to be careful
or he would spring off the drawing-board a lovable cherubic little chap.”)
pleasure of seeing himself regarded with
greater and greater respect.
Down the years it is astonishing to note
what a large number of our friends we
Lows first met at the Lynds’: The Jack
Priestleys, the John Drinkwaters, the
Philip Guedallas, Rose Macaulay, the
Humbert Wolfes, the Victor Gollanczes,
the Alan Thomases, the Ivor Browns, the
Norman Collinses and all, and all.
Dear Robert and Sylvia. I never met
anyone who knew them who did not
hold them in affection.
MEANTIME, while I was discovering
London and the Londoners, politics
were moving and the scene changing.
A treaty had been signed with the Irish,
Bonar Law had retired ill, the Tories had
had enough of LI. G. and were busy
intriguing him out of the Premiership.
But they were stuck for an alternative,
because Austen Chamberlain and other
prominent Tory leaders would not desert
LI. G.
Suddenly Bonar Law returns revived.
His absence had freed him of all ties to
the Coalition. Presto! The Carlton Club
meeting, Stanley Baldwin’s speech, break-
up of the Coalition Government. Bonar
Law comes into power with his “Govern-
ment of cabin-boys” and has it stamped
with popular approval at a rather con-
fused general election which follows.
In those days the candidate’s election-
expenses were not as drastically curtailed
as they are today, and a good deal of
my “paper”—cartoons in poster, pamphlet
and handbill form —went out to the
constituencies.
It was a sad election for the “Wee
Free” [Asquith] liberals. When the
numbers were counted they had fallen
behind the Laborites and were now the
smallest party in the House. An
undignified wrangle went on about which
party’s leaders were entitled to sit on the
Opposition front-bench as the alternative
Government.
I was on my way to the Commons
press-gallery to take a look at the new
arrivals when I was buttonholed by
Donald Maclean, who told me Asquith
wanted to see me. Momentarily I
savored a fantasy. How many bygone
aspirants to high office, had felt their
hearts leap at the promise of those very
words, I thought. But no, no —that was
past and times had changed.
Maclean and I found the grand old
man sitting, a monument of dignity,
attended by his faithful Vivian Philipps.
All he wanted was to muster and con-
solidate his party flock. He paid me
compliments.
“You are the best propagandist in the
country,” said the old man.
The three congratulated me in such
terms that an outsider might have con-
cluded that I personally had returned
them to power. I was touched because I
respected the old man and his kindness,
and embarrassed because I saw they were
all judging me by the label on my packet
(“Daily News,” The Liberal Newspaper)
and had not looked at my work closely
enough to see that I was not their party
cartoonist.
The election made unhappy changes
in Coalition-Liberal circles also. Lloyd
George and his friends, including some
prominent Tory leaders who had dis-
agreed with Baldwin, found themselves
out in the cold with plenty of time to
think. Life for them became less
exclusive.
My wife and I were charmed to be
invited by LI. G. and his daughter Megan
to dinner at the House. The other guests
were Winston Churchill, Gwilym Lloyd
George and his wife, and Oswald Mosley
and Lady Cynthia, who sat transparently
beautiful, quiet, almost mute. An
interesting company.
Mosley, who was sitting next to my
wife, said to her: “Who’s that chap with
the eyebrows?”
“That’s Low the cartoonist,” said my
wife.
“This is going to be good,” said
Mosley.
But it wasn’t in his sense. It was as
sweet as butterscotch. At about this
time LI. G. wanted to be editor of the
“Times” and he was curious about condi-
tions and personalities in journalism. He
pumped me a bit about the Cadbury
Press, but otherwise we talked about Aus-
tralia, cauliflower apples, the weather and
cinema-stars —about everything, in fact,
except political cartoons and double-
headed asses.
On this, the first time I had seen LI. G.
close up, I liked him very much and we
had a most enjoyable evening with no
casualties.
11
SO this was the Welsh Wizard. The
best-hated statesman of his time,
as well as the best-loved. The former
I had good reason to know; every time
I made a pointed cartoon against him, it
brought batches of approving letters from
all the haters- —canalised the hate, so to
speak. So much so that at times I had
a feeling of performing some peculiar
form of service in connection with the
Department of Public Health.
I did not, of course, hate LI. G. myself.
As a cartoonist I had recently done a fair
amount of denigration of our host’s
policies and attitudes, and as usual the
stoopids had explained that to one
another as evidence of hate.
I can without compunction, regardless
of affections and loyalties, symbolise a
mistaken idea in the person of the
individual that promotes it and hold both
up to contempt. But I can’t be bothered
hating, and I am sure personal hatred is
not the right inspiration for critical
satire. In my experience the best pieces
of scorn, are conceived in detachment.
So far as I was concerned, having made
my little contribution to the bringing
down of the Coalition Government, I was
by no means willing to assist in putting
an end to the usefulness of a political
genius.
As for LI. G., he had a little collection
of originals of what he thought were my
best efforts, including his favorite:
“You’re Next!” which showed the out-
of-work Versailles veterans Clemenceau,
Wilson, Orlando and Venizelos as a
deputation of unemployed under his
Downing-street window. I had promised
him at the time that if ever there were
a sequel in which his likeness was added
to the others he should have that, too,
and I was working on it. In return he
had sent me, perhaps for inspiration, an
outsize photograph of himself three-feet
high which he autographed across the
hat, just for a change.
LOOKING at LI. G. pink and hilarious,
head thrown back, generous mouth
open to its fullest extent, shouting with
laughter at one of his own jokes (at my
expense, by the way—not a very good
one, either), I thought I could see how
it was that his haters hated him. He


must have been poison to the old-school-
tie brigade, coming to the House an
“outsider,” bright, energetic, irrepressible,
ruthless, mastering with ease the compli-
cated House of Commons procedure,
applying all the Celtic tricks in the bag,
with a talent for intrigue that only
occasionally got away with him.
Dash it, they would say, the feller was
no gentleman. “Clever, y’ know” (with
a leer, meaning a dashed sight too clever).
“Intelligent—but not intellectual” (mean-
ing not like us fellows with the fat faces).
Not once but a dozen times I was
told the story about how the Prime
Minister of Britain couldn’t find Estonia
on the map at the Versailles Conference.
And, of course, I heard about how in
1918, when the war situation was pretty
desperate, he had toyed with the idea of
a reconciliation between the Junkers of
Germany and those of Britain by cutting
up Russia and expanding both Empires
at the expense of the Russians, which was
as damnable an idea as I had ever heard
of.
But I always discounted —then and
now —the tales of LI. G.’s black wicked-
ness, even from his ex-colleagues of
Asquith’s Cabinet when they led me
aside to tell me between clenched teeth
of his turpitude. In most cases, looking
at the speaker, I concluded that what he
meant was that LI. G. had been one too
many for him and had not played the
political game according to what he —
the speaker—thought were the rules.
j? COULD readily understand the
“ resentment of the younger generation
of Liberal politicians against the one
who had crabbed their party chances ;
but that could not account for the older
generation chewing their lips whenever
the name of Lloyd George came up.
It surprised me, for instance, years
later, that in the presence of an almost
invisible stranger like myself, the bare
mention of his old colleague could send
Reginald McKenna into an acid
character-sketch illustrated with a lifelike
imitation of LI. G. teetering at the Prime
Minister’s door in August, 1914, at the
last moment undecided about whether he
would come into the war or not.
LI. G. had changed and" 1 expanded his
character down the three years of his
Premiership and was now dressing him-
self as his conception of a Universal
Prime Minister. He had found himself
a most original hat, had cultivated an
Asquithian hair-do, and wore a neat grey
tails-suit and a pair of pince-nez hanging
around his neck by a black silk ribbon.
This was emphatically not the Radical
LI. G. I had pictured bringing in the
famous Budget of 1909, but the whole
effect was extremely endearing in its
way. I always had the greatest difficulty
in making LI. G. sinister in a cartoon.
Every time I drew him, however critical
the comment, I had to be careful or he
would spring off the drawing-board a
lovable cherubic little chap. I found
the only effective way of putting him
definitely in the wrong in a cartoon was
by misplacing his quality in sardonic
incongruity —by surrounding the
comedian with tragedy.
SITTING opposite me was Winston
Churchill. This was the first time
I had seen him, too, at close quarters.
He belongs to that sandy type which
cannot be rendered properly in black
lines. His eyes, blue, bulbous and heavy-
lidded-, would be impossible. The best
one could do with them would be an
approximation. At this time all the
political cartoonists were using the
approximation worked out by E. T. Reed,
the “Punch” caricaturist, who was feeling
a bit disgruntled about the plagiarism.
“That fellow,” Reed complained to
me about a colleague, “he’s a thief.
He stole my Winston’s eye.”
I already knew about Churchill. Who
hadn’t? Born in the inner circle, but
combining with that long start excep-
tional abilities ; determined to be a big
noise ; broke from Tory party to Liberal
party when young to find opportunity ;
Sydney-street; the Admiralty ; The Man
Who Had the Navy Ready . . . and so
on.
A democrat? An upholder of
Democracy? Um —ah—yes . . . when
he was leading it. Impatient with it
when he was not. Consequently not
naturally a good politician, but astute
from experience.
As might be expected from his origins
and temperament, inwardly contemptuous
of the “common man” when the
“common man” sought to interfere in
his (the “common man’s”) own govern-
ment ; but bearing with the need to
appear sympathetic and compliant to
the popular will.
WINSTON
(No need, either now or when Low made this caricature, for even the one-word
identification it carried as one of the artist-author’s famous series of notabilities printed
as special supplements to the “New Statesman.” The “Winston” originally appeared in
that series on May 1, 1926.)
IN those days, whenever I heard
Churchill’s dramatic periods about
Democracy, I felt inclined to say:
“Please define.”
His definition, I felt, would be some-
thing like “government of the people,
for the people, by benevolent and
paternal ruling-class chaps like nie.”
Remembering him as one of the most
energetic mis-educators of public opinion
in the early nineteen-twenties, when his
dislike of political onrushes from below
took him within hail of Fascism, when
the rabbits of the T.U.C. were held up
as Russian bears and the idea of a Labor
Government was alleged to mean the
enthronement of Bolshevism at West-
minster, I could never accept him as a
democrat in the Lincolnian sense.
Winston’s characteristics were confi-
dence in himself and love of his country.
His defence of England was always
against threatening foreigners rather
than against threatening ’isms or ’ologies,
which did not worry him, since he was
sure he would eventually turn-up leading
the winner. A high sense of the dramatic ;
a talent for self-advertisement; and, to
cap all, imagination and guts.
was witty and easy to
talk to until I said that the Aus-
tralians were an independent people who
could not be expected to follow Britain
without question. They were, in the
case of new wars, for instance, not to be
taken for granted, but would follow their
own judgment.
His eyes bulged a little, his face
seemed to rise and hang in the heavens,
and he ended the subject with a piece of
rhetoric to which there could be no
reply.
The conversation turned to Art. An
enforced political “rest” had turned his
interest to a new hobby—painting; and
the Laverys, I heard, were giving him
hints. His ideas of how I worked were
fantastic. He thought I made a drawing
in half-an-hour, and I had some trouble
in explaining that it would take longer
than that to put the lines down on paper
in disorder, without trying to draw at all.
But for all that he had a genuine
appreciation of quality in caricatural
draughtsmanship. He flattered me by
recalling some of my old cartoons which
I had thought forgotten.
Once on another and latter occasion
he made me blush by advancing across
a roomful of people with pencil and
paper, ostentatiously pretending to make
a sketch of me.
For all his playfulness I find that I
wrote at the time, of these first impres-
sions: “Churchill is one of the few men
I have met who even in the flesh give
me the impression of genius. Shaw is
another. It is amusing to know that each
thinks the other is much overrated.”
SUCH meetings, besides being socially
agreeable, were, of course, very
useful professionally in helping me to
take the measure of events.
With some experience behind me I
had decided that in cartoons for my new
environment the light-hearted approach
was the most effective to domestic affairs.
But in foreign affairs at least two sets
of happenings suggested a need for
stronger treatment.
The world was still weltering in the
aftermath of the war, complicated by
the detachment of the United States and
the consequent apprehensions of France.
Questions of whether the course of world
history would have been different had
the United States not put the financial
screw on Britain, causing Britain to put
the screw on France, causing France to
put the screw on Germany, must remain
in the columns of political guesses
headed “If.” Had it ever been the policy
of the victorious Allies to conciliate
Germany and build up her liberal forces
to a position of strength as the best
guarantee against future wars? Was it
now their policy to throw the new
German democracy on its back and sit
on its head?
The news grew daily more fantastic as
so-called “realists” in places of national
power conducted their experiments in
extracting blood from stones and picking
coal with bayonets. In the slow
degeneration of European relationships
British “realism,” which had been for
conciliation to Germany but above all
for friendship to France, could not hold
a candle to French “realism,” but the
British Foreign Office was not in a
position to protest very loudly when
Poincard took charge of the Versailles
Peace and its enforcement. It was hinted
to me, however, that individual voices
could, and I did, with a series of rather
violent half-pages.
MOW to win a cheap reputation as an
oracle. One did not have to possess
second-sight to know that when French
and Belgian armies entered the Ruhr, an
unknown Hitler would stir. My cartoons
“Into the Arms of the Enemy” (showing
Poincare driving back the new German
democracy at the point of a bayonet
into the hands of totalitarianism) and
“The Vultures” (depicting the Weimar
Government weakened, as the Junkers
and industrial bosses grew strong enough
to pick out its eyes) were sadly sound
anticipations.
THERE is no one more romantic than
your political so-called “realist.” To
him the idea of a concourse of sober
(Continued on next page)


statesmen from all parts of the world
meeting to settle international differences
in a peaceful and businesslike manner
seems a dangerous absurdity.
On the other hand, the idea of a fat
man in a black shirt waving a revolver
in one hand and a bottle of castor-oil
in the other and screaming threats of war
at the rest of humanity seems eminently
sensible.
From the very first the League of
Nations had its detractors and weakeners.
When Mussolini took Corfu and defied
the League, it was possible to estimate
the power of these “realists.” It looked
for a moment as though Britain and
France, the masters of League policy,
would stand with the small nations
against the revival of force and keep
Caesar down to life-size.
I evidently thought so, judging from
my cartoon of Mussolini surveying the
potential opposition with trepidation, and
fearing he hadn’t brought “enough castor-
oil to go round.” But the “realists” won,
and the League decided to hear nothing,
see nothing, say nothing. Mussolini got
away with it and the first chapter was
written in his book of Success.
Reactions to the advent of the Duce
had been curious. Leaving international
morality and descending to mere national
interest, it was highly improbable that an
ambitious dictator in the Mediterranean
could ever be friendly towards Britain
or France. But there were considerations
more important than that, apparently.
The spectacle of the Duce so master-
fully beating up his Liberal and Socialist
PUSH IN THE CORNER
(When —as Low mentions in this instalment —“the United States....put
the financial screw on Britain, causing Britain to put the screw on France,
causing France to put the screw on Germany.” It might be thought that
this London “Star” cartoon of 1922 has something of an echo in 1957.)
opponents was one that could not fail
to evoke admiration in some Anglo-
Saxon breasts. A British Fascist party
grew up overnight; and the “Daily Mail,”
then Britain’s biggest popular newspaper,
approved it.
With some zest I added the first Lord
Rothermere, its proprietor, to my cast
of cartoon characters. He made up well
in a black shirt helping to stoke the
fires of class-hatred.
Lord R. was much incensed and com-
plained bitterly. “Dog doesn’t eat dog.
It isn’t done,” said one of his Fleet-street
men, as though he were giving me a
moral adage instead of a thieves’ wise-
crack.
“You forget, old boy,” I replied, “I’m
a moa.”
BONAR LAW’S battle-cry to rally his
followers at the general election just
past was “Tranquillity”—which seemed a
queer slogan for a nation that was trying
to pull itself together after a destructive
war. “Awake! Arise! ” would have been
more appropriate. I was moved as a
cartoonist to symbolise this Tranquillity
in the person of the Prime Minister him-
self always in his pyjamas, conducting
the affairs of .the nation half-asleep from
bed.
Bonar Law struck me as a man without
outstanding physical characteristics. I
had heard all about his past liveliness,
but in 1922 he was a subdued personality
difficult to draw. For the election he had
been represented as recovered from his
illness. But it soon became painfully
evident that he no longer had the reserves
of strength needed for the office of Prime
Minister.
I was in full swing with a series of
cartoons entitled “Adventures of Bonar
in Slumberland” when a political know-
all told me the P.M. was having a bad
time just then with insomnia. Rather
unfortunate. I shut down on the series,
I was considerably surprised a week
so later to receive a fan-mail from
insomniacs far and near asking for me.
I learned that the P.M. himself had
found them diverting. One cartoon which
showed Bonar in a mobile bed drawn by
galloping nightmares gave pleasure to
the venerable Lord Rosebery, who used
to rise in the night and drive about in his
brougham to induce sleep.
TUT ERE was a peculiar thing, an example
all of the inconsequential in life. One
drew some pretty obvious political
cartoons, and one found oneself sud-
denly in contact with a lot of people
united by a common interest which had
nothing to do with politics or cartoons
—How to Get to Sleep.
The interest of finding so many active
insomniacs led me to enter into corres-
pondence with some of them. I had
just begun a new round of sleeplessness
myself.
I had been a bad sleeper ever since
the Melbourne City Council (may my
darkest curse wither its entrails) started
to tear up the rails of the tramways by
night outside my bedroom window on
Collins-street. Punctured by drillings
and hammerings on iron, my sleep grew
nightly less, and more broken, and one
night I had no sleep at all.
I worried about it, which was the worst
thing I could have done, because I kept
myself awake next night trying so hard
to go to sleep. One night—two nights,
Nobody seemed to think it was anything
that could not be cured by a cup of hot
milk. Three nights. By this time the
operations had up the road almost
out of earshot, but that made no differ-
ence. The silence was as bad. Four
nights. I grew desperate and afraid I
was going mad.
I met a comforting chap who told me
it was nothing. We all slept too much,
anyway. He knew a man who hadn’t
slept for three years. It would do me
good to keep awake for a week. Sharpen
me up. Didn’t I feel sharper already?
(Yes, perhaps . . . a bit . . .) Very well
then. Let’s have a large rum and we’ll
both stay awake.
We both fell asleep.
WITH the burden shared by this true
friend, Nature let up and I resumed
orderly repose. Until the next time.
At times of too great activity of mind
or not enough, I continued subject to
sleeplessness. I tried lying still, pretend-
ing to be unconscious ; reading ; count-
ing up to a million and down from a
million; getting up and working;
placing something hot at the feet and
something cold at the feet; singing
silently (this was a good one); lying
spreadeagled on the floor (strangely
soothing); long walks at 3 a.m.; and
most other methods of inducing slumber.
There was the awful night when I took
the advice of some ass and wooed
Morpheus with the aid of two large bottles
of stout. Operation Stout was not a
success. But that was the night a mouse
got into the piano.
INTO THE ARMS OF THE ENEMY
(Another 1922 cartoon described in this instalment.)
AH! Those miserable occasions early
in my affliction when in despair I
threw on my clothes over my pyjamas,
banged the front-door in the hope of
waking everybody else in the street, made
my way in the dark through some park
or other to trudge along the banks of
the Yarra River spouting Shakspeare at
the dawn. Damn the dawn! How I
hated it!
I found Shakspeare comforting on
(hese outings I used to leave a smal
volume about ready to stick in my pocket
as I went. Tragic, bitter, self-pitying
passages went well. The melancholy
Jaques was made for it. But my favorite
was Hamlet and the Ghost.
Had anyone been about at such an
hour in such a spot, I must have looked
a strange figure—wild-eyed, dishevelled,
lolloping through the half-light, warning
in sepulchral tone: “Mark...
maaark...”
first ten years of insomnia were
U the hardest. I had learned by then
that sleep is a habit, both in time and
duration, and a habit which can be modi-
fied to suit individual requirements.
Everybody else could go to bed at ten-
or eleven-o’clock and sleep eight hours,
but was that any reason why I should
do so if it did not suit me? The Lows
were always nightbirds.
Whatever time I got up, I was never
properly awake—that is to say, all
cylinders working—until noon. I could
discipline my machinery to grind out its
job passably well—adequate hack-work
—before that; but it was not until
between four-o clock and midnight that
the rapid cUck IfTdea Tnd
associated idtas 7
Fresh thoughts came easiest at the
end of the day, when the body was tired
and the mind could ramble. Most
inconvenient. Just how things should
not be, because if the machinery winds
up it. has to wind down again before it
can sleep.
I attempted to answer that by making
my time of sleep variable and adjustable
to circumstances. The outside world
was not always sympathetic. I turned-up
one day at the “Star” office yawning my
head off. “Sorry. Been up all day.”
Thus began a legend that I was a small-
hours roisterer.
TfT was years before I got to the root
ii of the matter. My trouble was a
failure of confidence. A doubt deep inside
me as to whether I could sleep. I could
not reason this doubt out of myself,
Proof was required,
j t was not un til i had run into this
pat ch of insomnia in London that I had
the luck to meet a sensible Australian
doctor. He prescribed three soporifics,
m iid, medium and knockout, to be taken
as necessity demanded.
With these I dosed myself for a week
bacfc in habits f repose . Ever
; then a bottle and a pillbox rest on
, , . , , ~ T 0 „
JV bedside-table the last thing 1 see
I switch oft the light. The mere
°i them is enough. Looking at
them I am comforted, I know all is under
control, and I drop off into sweet, refresh-
ing slumber. And when I read articles
in the newspapers about dangerous
bedside drugs, I smile a knowing smile,
T 7 T was overwork that had revived my
insomnia in 1922. Fortunately family
changes gave me a good excuse for an
interruption.
My father had put the Empire emigra-
tion plan into reverse and returned the
entire Low family (with the exception
of one brother left in Australia) from
New Zealand back to Britain. Now he
W as impatient .to revisit the scenes of his
youth after forty years’ absence, and I
cou id take a short holiday with a light
heart to help him rediscover Scotland,
My f at her, grew steadily more Scottish
ag we travei i ed northwards. By the time
we had reac h e d Carnoustie, the cradle of
our a ncestors, he was the Scotchest man
t j iere
“W* way is the auld schoolhoose?”
£? a / ed a in the broadeS ‘
J-'undese.
Puzzled look. Oh, you mean the ol
school said the passer-by in Jaultles
English. ‘ First to the right ... etc.
My father’s old school was still there,
Small, deserted, dirty, with broken
windows. We found the wee hoose that
was his birthplace derelict, roofless,
Alas, I was sad to see Dad’s dismay,
For everhiore this scene would mar those
sweet revisits .to the past which comfort
the aged in their decline. The man who
said “Never go back” was right. We
turned away dismally to visit the new, up-
to-date construction that overlaid Dad’s
youth, on the way passing troops of the
fashionable golfers from the South,
damn their eyes,
Never go back.
THE VULTURES
(Low in London “Star,” October 23, 1923. This cartoon, on menaces
threatening the young German republic, is here listed by Low among his
“sadly sound anticipations.” In later instalments he will be seen with
similar anticipations on Hitler and Co.)


THE present was good enough for me.
I was discovering the joys of married
life and the rhythm and harmony of a
London suburban routine for the first
time in my life. Could anyone be
happier than I? What delight lay in the
simple pleasures of gardening, of
wrestling with my dog, of searching for
nicodumphians and crackadalians with
my tiny daughters, of endlessly quoting
‘ Romeo” to my beautiful wife.
This was a supremely glad time in my
life, despite a fiend within me that con-
stantly urged me to expand and spread,
that incited me to impossible tests —to
paint, to carve, to sculpt, to write, to
make speeches, to play tennis and golf, at
both of which games I was, and always
remained, an utter fool.
This fiend sometimes became a
problem. The rigid self-discipline I had
imposed upon myself as a youth would
not relax. I gave myself no rest. I
worked hard even! when there was no
immediate point in it, sitting up half the
night making improvements in a drawing
which would surely never be apparent to
anyone but myself.
I had a period of overwork which
induced a run of deep depressions. The
agony of trying to incubate light-hearted
ideas for cartoons was intolerable.
By experiment I evolved my own cure.
Low’s Infallible Remedy for Depression:
retire to quiet room, lock door, draw
blinds, tightly bandage eyes and chin, lie
down on back, fold hands on chest, clear
mind, remain completely and stiffly still
for twenty minutes imagining you are
buried under six-feet of wet earth. Then
get up, go to a lively restaurant and have
a good dinner.
After that if the world hasn’t taken on
a new interest and you aren’t glad to be
alive, I’ll eat my hat.
A LTHOUGH in cash terms I was a
proved success, for my pay had
doubled since I Jiad begun in London, I
was considerably dissatisfied with my
work.
My principal interest was still in draw-
ing, and I intended to keep it that way
but I was getting too much, mixed-up
with politics.
Confound it, I was an artist who drew
politics, not a politician who drew pic-
tures. Public affairs were the raw
material for my drawing, and I had no
wish to “get on” in politics. Although I
sought famous people for professional
reasons, I did not long to trail around in
their glory.
Since the physical needs of the Low
family were simple, we had enough
money. Over and above all was my vital
necessity to draw, and if I were not
having the fun of trying to do that as
well as I could, I was not having fun at
all. Now and again I had profound mis-
givings about the wisdom of my having
got mixed-up with newspapers at all.
Then I was acutely unhappy.
No newspaper-man gave a damn about
Art; nor many newspaper readers either,
apparently. A newspaper was a vehicle
for distributing ideas. It was all ideas.
When somebody said “That was a good
cartoon,” he meant it was a good idea.
He probably did not know what a
cartoon was ' apart from the idea it
expressed.
‘ip 1 HAT was an attitude that irritated me
profoundly. When, for instance, a
friendly soul came up to me one day and
said, “That’s a good cartoon of yours in
today’s paper,” I asked, “What’s good
about it?”
“Oh, why, about Baldwin mending a
tank with a hairpin.”
“Oh, you mean the idea. You’re
telling me it’s a good gag. Well, never
mind that. We both know enough about
psychology to be aware that you pro-
bably like the gag only because it
flatters your own prejudices, so when
you think you are patting me on the
back you are really only patting yourself
on the back. Why should I feel satisfac-
tion about that? Let’s leave the gag out
of it and tell me about the cartoon.”
“Why, what else is there?”
'\\K/AS that why I sat up half the night
vv fretting to get the right simper,
frown or smirk on Baldwin’s face? Was
that the average response to the exercise
of mind and imagination involved in
playing with line-values—as a musician
plays with notes on the piano, to pro-
duce effects of farce, fantasy or tragedy?
Was that why I strained my ingenuity
inventing ways of drawing things that
are undrawable, like an invisible man,
say, or a couple of isosceles triangles
having a fight, or a man chasing a dog on
the blind side of a wall? Or why I
strove to express emotions in familiar
visual terms, to create—create was the
word—pictorial symbols—for ideas that
JOSEPH CONRAD
(As Low saw him in 1.923 : another in the “New Statesman” series, February 13, 1926.
In last week’s “Bulletin” Low wrote : “I was astonished one day when my bell rang,
the door opened and in walked Joseph Comad in the flesh, a small man like Captain
Kettle, heavy-shouldered with delicate extremities, wearing purple socks. I had expected
a six-footer —why I don’t know.”)
have no shape nor substance, like Free-
dom, War, Peace, Labor, Slump, Pros-
perity, Europe, Britain, and so on?
To anyone who could ask, “What else
is there?” I could reply, “Why, the
cartoon. Are the details nicely com-
posed so that the eye slides easily to the
full meaning? Has the drawing the
appropriate blend of fantasy and realism
to insinuate the satire? Does the wit
of the caricature suggest sound judg-
ment of essentials? Do the portraits of
the people depicted suggest insight into
character? Does the performance fit
the intention —not too labored to defeat
the spontaneity, not so facile as to be
insignificant. Is it, in short, a good
cartoon, or just another plate of hash?”
WHEN the sciolists protested to me
that cartooning couldn’t be an art,
I bade them tell that to Brueghel, Callot,
Hogarth, Gillray, Rowlandson, Daumier.
Art does not reside in the materials nor
the subject-matter. It resides in the
artist.
A great artist drawing a boot on a
wall with a piece of charred stick can
make great art. Equally a hack could
use the most expensive materials on the
most majestic subject-matter and his
work still be rubbish.
Cartooning can be an art if the
cartoonist is an artist; but equally, if
the man is not an artist, his cartoons will
have no artistry, however witty his ideas.
Certain it was that / maintained this
passionately. If I hadn’t been possessed
by the idea that there were fascinating
new possibilities lying in every blank
sheet of paper I should not have spent
my life trying to be an artist. Had I
found it to be merely a craft, I should
have given it up long before as a boring
business and gone in for something lively
like stockbroking.
It was like the pastrycook who
believed that there weren’t any arts worth
considering except architecture and
pastry-making, and considered that
pastry-making came first. I was a
caricaturist and I believed that caricature
was the most important of arts, if only
because it clearly involved to a greater
extent than any other the exercise of
the two principles fundamental to all art
in whatever medium of expression—
selection and emphasis.
That was not to claim every scribbled
sketch in the papers as a work of art.
Far from it. But I did certainly insist
that he who set out to capture the
character of life as it struck him, and to
whom illustration even of a jest was an
excuse to present a good piece of observed
life in appropriate atmosphere, was an
artist. It was the difference between one
who thought artistry unnecessary and
even hampering, and one who thought
it essential.
It irked ; me that what seemed to me
plain common sense so bften seemed to
others just highfalutin tommyrot that
didn’t mean a thing so long as the cartoon
raised a laugh. A funny idea in
indifferent pictorial terms was all they
wanted.
THE unending argument about
presentation, space and position in
the paper became wearing. Eternal
vigilance palled. I had foreseen the
possibilities of personal crisis about all
this, so, as an insurance, I had begun to
develop some footholds in quarters
where I could place some better
drawing: “Punch,” the “Graphic” and
elsewhere.
The “portraits charges” I had been
working on so long were now coming
up to the final stage. I had Robert Lynd
introduce me to Clifford Sharp, "the
editof of the “New Statesman,” and I
offered them to him for a first publica-
tion at a small fee on condition he spent
real money on giving them top-quality
reproduction.
He agreed to do them as offset plate-
stamped loose supplements. How
fortunate I was to find in John Roberts,
the manager of the “New Statesman,” a
man of enthusiasm who shared my
determination to get the job done well.
He dredged London to find the best
paper, the best blockmakers, the best
printers, and we both hung over them
critically as they did the job.
And they did the job and it was good.
(To be continued next week )


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
In winning the A.J.C.
Challenge Stakes, Adolph
Basser’s three-year-old colt My
Kingdom ran record time for
that sprint, 1.9 9-10, a fraction
outside Randwick’s best, 1.91,
shared by Maniana and Spearby.
Maniana was among the also-
ran in last Saturday’s contest.
It was a thrilling finish between
My Kingdom, ridden by N.
Sellwood, and Compound, with
G. Moore up, the winning
margin a nose; My Kingdom
had 7.13 against Compound’s
8.9, and as well as his pull in
the weights had the inside
running. It was Sellwood’s first
Challenge Stakes win.
Fittingly, M. V. Point, of
Sledmere stud, Scone (N.S.W.),
bred Jenna, winner at Rand-
wick of the Sledmere Maiden
for two-year-old fillies. Wisely,
Point didn’t accept the bid of
400gns.. for the filly at the
Randwick yearling-sales last
April. Now raced by her
trainer, Harry Plant, she ran
greenly in the straight, but
managed to stall-off a strong
challenge by Kinvarra Girl.
Jenna is another of the successful
Royal Empire (Fr.) progeny. Her
dam, Corkscrew, is an imported
mare by Dubonnet from Quick
Release by Loaningdale.
Reg and John Inglis, of the
bloodstock firm, race Bystander,
surprise winner of Randwick’s
Sunnyside Maiden for two-
year-old colts and geldings. It
also was a little surprising to
find the leading jockey, G.
Moore —40 firsts this season —
on a 20-to-l winner! Always
with the lead, Bystander gave
him an easy ride.
Having his first race-start,
Rosehill - trained Star Zeal
finished third to Bystander and
Dominant Gene, and but for
running wide at the home-turn
would have been much closer.
One to note, the youngster cost
3000gns. as a yearling, and is by
Star Kingdom (imp.) from
Strazeele by Enfield (imp.).
Jockey Fred Hood —attached
to the stables of his father, the
Rosebery trainer who answers
to the same monicker —is tall
and weighs about 8.12, which
precludes him from getting many
mounts, but he’s a very capable
rider, and on Moorakyle, at
Randwick, won the Paddington
Handicap; he also won the
corresponding race twelve
months ago. Mr. and Mrs. H. C.
Davidson, who race the five-
year-old Moorland gelding, have
a property out Cootamundra
way.
Runanga, a promising four-
year-old stayer by Cursory
(imp.), has won at three of his
last four starts, his latest success
being as a heavily-backed
favorite in the Encourage at
Randwick. In the middle of the
field to the home-turn, he then
made a fast run to score con-
vincingly, covering the mile in
1.36 f, very good time for the
class.
* * *
Caulfield racegoers didn’t take
a tumble to two-year-old filly
Wide Awake in the Kingston
Stakes, despite a recent win at
Pakenham in race-record time;
she eased in the betting to go
out at 20 to 1. Wide Awake is
by Tournai (imp.), an unraced
French-bred sire by Tourbillon,
and is from Royal Chimes by
Enfield (imp.) from Ten O’Clock
by Manfred. The filly is raced
by her breeder, Mrs. M.
Stracnan, and is trained bv J. J.
Geddes.
At Eagle Farm, Brisbane, two-
year-old Barrawal easily won the
City View Maiden Nursery,
starting at 33 to 1, though from
the stables pf prominent trainer
A. B. Sinclair. Barrawal, who
carries the colors of Mrs.
Sinclair, is of Kia-Ora (Scone,
N.S.W.) breeding, by Channel
Swell (imp.) from Heyday by
Double (Remove (imp.) from
Flighty by Gay Lothario (imp.).
Somerset Fair won last year’s
Chipping Norton Stakes at
Warwick Farm by 10 lengths,
but he wasn’t the success
anticipated in Sydney and was
returned to New Zealand, where
he holds a brilliant record. He
has recovered best form this
season, winning at seven of his
eight starts in weight-for-age
company, latest success being in
the Trentham Stakes, at
Wellington—another 10-lengths
win, and his time for the 11
furlongs, 2.14 f, an Australasian
record. Gallant Archer’s 2.15*
at Brisbane in June, 1954, was
the previous best. Somerset
Fair’s time was better also than
the best English time, 2.15.
One of the best-looking
thoroughbreds paraded at Inglis's
auction of racing stock at their
Newmarket stables at Randwick
last Friday was an imported grey
mare, Fair Goddess, who had
been trained in Brisbane by
Frank Kennedy and was one of
a number of biis horses to come
under the hammer. Sold to
D. Carey, of Camden, for
900gns., she looks in fine racing
trim and could soon make it
interesting in a restricted event.
She won at her three Brisbane
starts, carrying 9.2 at her final
appearance there. Foaled in
England in 1953, she is by
Migoli, winner of £22,900
there, including the Eclipse
Stakes and the Champion Stakes,
and is from Elinor II by Vatellor
from Nell GWynne by Teddy.
At 350gns., the bid of Canter-
bury trainer J. Denham, Gypsy
Tide appeared a cheap purchase
at the same sale. His new owner
could quickly make a profit.
• • • *
Dalray won 14 races and
£39,678 in stakes, including the
Melbourne Cup with 9.8. His
yearling brother topped the
latest New Zealand sales at
3300gn5., the bid of Sydney
bloodstock-agent M. Grogan,
who was acting for an Auckland
sportsman, J. P. Butland. The
colt —to be trained at Randwick
by M. McCarten is by
Balloch (imp.) from Broivene by
Broiefort (imp.) from Lucky
Alice by Lucullus (imp.).
Australians bought 120
yearlings during the two days of
the N.Z. auction, paying 97,650
gns., a record for Australian
purchases at these sales. Henry
Wooffindin, studmaster of New
Plymouth, and breeder of the
top-priced colt, sold Dalray for
460gns. in 1950 and his half-
brother, Dalstar, for a record
5000gns. in 1953.
“Bookie’s Dog”: A protest
unique in the memory of even
- veteran racegoers was lodged at
Moonee Valley a week or two
back. Peter Bakos, rider of Red
Joker, third to Kabarra and
Kosciusko, protested against the
first horse but not against
Kosciusko. Most of us were
surprised that the stewards
entertained the appeal, believing
that a rider could protest only
against a horse that finished
immediately in front of his
mount. The protest was dis-
missed, but chairman of stewards
Frank Bullock later told press-
men that, had it been upheld,
the amended platings would
have read: Kosciusko, Red
Joker, Kabarra. He quoted Rule
131 b, which states that if a
placed horse seriously interferes
with another placed runner,
including the fourth horse, the
stewards may place the offender
immediately behind the horse
interfered with. So a horse can
have an uninterrupted run,
finish second, and still be
awarded the race! Moral: Don’t
destroy that ticket till “correct
weight” has been signalled.
* * *
Big plum of the Harold Park
Summer Carnival, the £5OOO
Summer Cup, was this year
taken-off by the N.S.W. South
Coast grey, Active Ayr. Now a
10-year-old, Active Ayr has been
unlucky in previous big runs,
mainly through self-imposed
handicaps he has never
cottoned on to leaving the mark.
Also he’s had trouble with his
legs (he races tightly-bandaged in
front and is easily chafed by the
hopples), and his young owners
(driver Ray Farrell and trainer
Roy Cleary) have been most
patient. Slow to move on
Friday night, he quickly went to
an aggressive position, raced
with the lead to the Leger,
where he fought gamely to the
front and stayed there for a
comfortable four-length verdict.
Mineral Spring, who took his
customary big-race knocks, came
from last at the bell to be
second ; Powerful Lady boxed-
on for third.
In a race in which he was
the only non-sufferer, Sky High
stole the Summer Handicap
Final, with King Ranji second
“Good dog in the Water ?”
in, First Variety third. When,
after about a lap, Binskin
moved on Sky High to tackle
Miniature Bill for the lead/
Miniature Bill broke, Sky High
shot clear, every other runner
shared in the backwash. A
race run in any other way is
always hard to predict, but King
Ranji may have been the good
thing beaten. Though Sky High’s
win was a good one, it is hard
to fathom First Variety’s run.
A fortnight earlier, under
exactly the same conditions —
even with Sky High leading and
First Variety trailing him —First
Variety came home smoking his
pipe, two lengths clear of Sky
High; the time fsec. better than
in the Final. Had Sam Weller
been a man who followed his
fancy, he would perhaps have
said “Horses is funny animals.”
Trainer Dinny Nolan has
always pinned an outsize in
merit-certificates on square-
gaiter Para Rip, and when the
big brown turns on such
remarkable feats as he has .in
recent weeks the claims begin to
look credible. In his last three
engagements, in consecutive
weeks, Para Rip has won a
free-for-all (breaking the Di-
furlongs track - record), a
Trotters’ Cup (his fourth at
Harold Park; in this he came
from 96yds. and registered the
same mile-gait as crack pacer
Mineral Spring, who had gone
two furlongs less), and last week
jogged in with his ears back to
win the Trotters’ Handicap
from 108yds., rating a dainty
2.12. Next Saturday he will
attempt the 2.41 Australian mile-
record (trotting), held by Sandan.
+ +
The Australian cricket-team of
14 to go to N.Z. is made up of the
young and very promising. There
are three already-established Test-
players (Craig, Harvey and Benaud),
and Burge is close to that rating.
Another two, Favell and Watson,
went to the West Indies in 1955
and have both played Test-cricket.
One very good point is that all the
batsmen chosen are enterprising and
will hit the ball, and are easy-on-the-
eye strokemakers. Such, for instance,
are O’Neill and .the former N.S.W.
player Bob Simpson, who must
have just missed being picked for
West Indies and for England.
Among the bowlers, there s promise-
in both pace and spin' departments—
though all-rounder Martin haan t
really done that well with either bat
or ball. Two youngsters to be left
at home asre Westralia’s burly left-
hand batsman Shepherd and
Queensland’s spin-bowler Freeman.
Craig is to skipper the side, with
Harvey his deputy. Craig is the
youngest ever to lead an Australian
touring side. Neither he nor Harvey
has yet had great experience of
captaincy; the Board of Control
evidently sees greater leadership
possibilities in him, or else fears
the cares of leadership may affect
Harvey’s brilliance —a brilliance well
in evidence in his 209 on Sydney
Cricket Ground last Saturday, when
Craig made the captaincy mistake of
sending Victoria in. (Of course had
the move succeeded it would have
hailed instead as a master-stroke.)
For the first time in many recent
selections of Australian touring
teams, there was practically com-
plete approval by both N.S.W. and
Victorian critics. In S.A. it was
admitted that the State, at the
bottom of the Shield ladder, was
lucky to have three reps.—though all
three, and in particular young 'keeper
Jarman, had earned their selection.
On the other hand Queensland, which
has had a pretty successful Shield
season, has only Burge in.
(McLaughlin, Bratchford or ’keeper
Grout could well have been picked,
but none is as young as his counter-
part from another State preferred.)
The last team to N.Z., in 1950 (also
a “second” team, the No. 1 team
being away in S’Africa), was in large
measure a consolation-trip for
players just outside the Test fringe,
like Ridings, Puckett of W.A., and
Queensland’s Len Johnson. Of the
team, only two youngsters, Burke and
Davidson (who in one game took
10-29 and made 157 not-out), and two
not-so-youngsters, Ring and Iverson,
went on from that tour to Test-
cricket. Ring had earlier played
in two Tests, but established him-
self more certainly after N.Z.
“Bookie’s Dog”: The stormy
petrel of Australian cricket
would, I’m sure, be intrigued to
know that a New Zealand priest
plays regularly in a small
competition, under the
pseudonym of “S. Barnes.”
Father is a pretty handy sort
of cricketer, too.
“Atala”: A possibly unique
position could have arisen in an
Adelaide A-grade pennant-
match between Prospect and
Sturt. When the last over began
Sturt was 20 runs short of
Prospect’s score. Going for
them, former Test ’keeper
Langley was caught for 84, and
the following batsman- was
bowled off the seventh ball —
being the eighth man out. The
last ball of the day was safely
played, and the match was
drawn; but what would have
been the result of the game had
he been dismissed? For he was
in reality Sturt’s last man, the
11th player having left the
ground, and so would have had
to be entered as “absent, 0.” All
Sturt’s wickets being thus
accounted for, would it have
been a win for Prospect, or
would it still have been a draw?
“Sam”: In over 30 years of
watching cricket I’ve only once
seen a tie (B. 16/l/’57), and it
was a particularly sensational
finish. At Pratten Park, Ashfield
(Sydney), in the early 1920’5,
Western Suburbs seconds were
playing a club whose name I
can’t remember. One side got a
big lead on the first innings, and
the other had to follow-on. In
their second innings, however,
they did better, but the first side
had only to make a moderate
score to win outright. With only
an hour or so to get the runs,
risks were taken, and wickets
began to tumble. The last pair
were in with four runs still
needed and only a few minutes
to stumps. A powerful pull
seemed certain to reach the
boundary, but was snapped-up
a few feet from it by a flying
fieldsman. Three had been run,
and the batsmen started on their
fourth and what would have been
the winning run. The fieldsman
threw wildly at the striker’s
wicket, and broke it with the
batsman about a yard out.
* * *
“Fan”: Open tennis tourna-
ments not desirable (B.
23/1/’57)? Why not? After all,
Open golf tournaments have
long been a big success, and
Open tennis tournaments would
similarly decide beyond question
who are the best players in the
world. Competition between
amateurs and professionals
should, if anything, result in
higher standards of play in both
groups, which would be reflected
in Wimbledon and Davis Cup
matches — they’ll still hold their
place as the big amateur tennis
magnets. The Ampol profes-
sional tennis tournament, to
begin in Sydney in a day or two,
may well be the forerunner of
Open tournaments sponsored by
other Australian firms.
* * *
“K.R.”: Australia’s new John
Landy could be 18-year-old
Westralian runner Herb Elliott.
On three successive Saturdays in
Melbourne he has set a new
Australian and world junior
mile-record (4min. 6sec.), an
Australian junior 880yds. record
(lmin. 53.75ec.), and, in the Vic-
torian championships last Satur-
day, equalled his world junior
record in winning the senior mile
event.
❖ * *
“Jock”-: Maurice Brownlie, a
member of six All Blacks sides,
has died at Gisborne (N.Z.). The
six included the 1924
“invincibles” who made a
triumphal tour of Britain and
the Continent. Brownlie
captained the All Blacks in all
four Tests against South Africa
in 1928. Altogether between
1922 and 1928 he played 61
games for New Zealand. He
was 60 at the end.
* * *
“Now, if a racehorse had been
out for two years and hadn’t
had a run, you wouldn’t make
him favorite at his first start—
not if he was Phar Lap.” Wise
words from Bill McConnell. Bill
puts the polish on Coonamble
pug Max Simpson (9.9 i), who
last week stepped in at Sydney
Stadium against former lilywhite
champion Don McDonnell
(9.12); and Bill reckoned it
haywire reasoning that Mc-
Donnell in his first stoush for
two years should be a 3-to-l-on
pop against his boy, who had
sound form in four or five recent
engagements, though this was
his first main-event.
® • • *
Two years in the paddock,
though it hadn’t left him with a
grass stomach, had hi unte
McDonnell’s prowess enough
prove McConnell’s predicts
correct; he looked as raw as
greenhide. In the first round
shaped like a boxer and s
Simpson for a compuls 5,
“eight” with a nice right; men
he faded out of the picture mos
of the way, coming with a d
in the last few rounds, but m
rights he now sent across
too late to bridge the points-g
and too tender to bowl the
other boy. Simpson easily 01
points. He's the awrf
scrapper since , he
“Butch” on after school, .but
bored in long and P ersl , a
with a solid body attack ana
scattering of hooks.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
Old Haruis Gropes
By W. N. SCOTT
OLD HARRY hunched his
shoulders against the
drizzle, and swore softly.
The dinghy swayed
gently to his movement, swing-
ing more across the current now
the tide was almost at flat ebb.
Rainsquall clouds passed over
the half-moon; there was no
sound save for a distant rooster
and the swish of rain on the
black water.
Harry could feel warm fingers
of rain creeping across his back,
despite the folded sack he had
flung over his shoulders when
he saw the squall blacking-out
the stars in the south-east. Yet
he was not uncomfortable. North
of Capricorn on the coast it is
warm in April, even at two-
o’clock in the morning. He swore
from force of habit; meaningless
syllables dropping from his lips.
In reality he was enjoying him-
self. Although he sat so still and
seemed almost asleep he was
alive to his surroundings from
long habit. Because the wind
had moved the light dinghy
further than before, because the
nylon line between his stubby
calloused fingers was not vibrat-
ing so strongly, he knew the tide
had reached the last of the run
out. Because it was April, and a
big tide, and a drizzle was falling,
he was not surprised that the wet
sugar-bag in the bows held eight
black-bream, heavy with milt and
ioe.
This was the natural course
of events. When high - water
flooded up the mangrove-tangled
banks the bream would scatter ;
but low-water sent them into the
deeper pools and he was
anchored over the deepest hole
in the estuary. Some ancient
twitching of the earth had tilted
a bed of slate at such an angle
that each year, when the floods
of the Wet came down, a scour
was formed so that only the
heaviest particles of silt were
left: ironstone from the ridges
and fragments of galena from a
lode far inland on the tableland.
Old Harry was as familiar with
the bad of the river as he was
with the lumps in his own
mouldy mattress. He knew
exactly where the ridge lay, and
used the knowledge for his own
purposes. That was why he was
here. This was a groper-hole.
Now that the floods of Feb-
ruary had subsided he knew that
at least one of the giant cod
would be in residence, fat from
the scavenging of dead fowls and
beasts that the floods brought
down each year.
TJARRY’S eyes half-opened as
11 he peered sleepily aft. The
beer he had drunk earlier in the
night had died in him, leaving
him drowsy and relaxed.
He didn’t need to look behind.
Over the stern passed a length
of heavy rope. The slack five-
fathoms were coiled handily on
the bottom of the boat, and there
was an empty oil-drum clove-
hitched to the end of the line.
The line itself was passed once
around a piece of waterworn
quartz balanced precariously on
the back seat.
If anything bit on that line
the stone would warn him as it
fell; and at the same time it
would not impede the fish from
swallowing the bait. That was
important with a big one. They
came easier if the hook was in
their belly, not their jaw.
Very occasionally the line
stirred slightly. Lashed to the
hand-forged hook, thirty feet
down, were two live mud-crabs
he had dragged from their
burrows the previous afternoon.
Laced back to back with fine
trace-wire, the hook flat between
them, they knew instinctively
that this was the wrong time and
place for a crab to be anchored.
Their claws, weapons that could
leave marks in a pine board,
were securely lashed to the
spiky fronts of their bodies.
Though they did not know it
they were doomed anyway, for
if nothing ate them in the next
four hours someone certainly
would later in the day. In the
meantime their irfstinct kept
them swimming in an effort to
leave this dangerous exposed
position and find friendly
darkness, three feet deep in a
hole laced with the feeding
roots of the tough, scrubby
mangroves.
Half-an-hour passed. The last
movement of the ebb wavered
an oily trail from the fillet of
mullet-flesh on the hook of the
nylon line to a slight bulge on
the silty floor of the hole. This
was a flathead, who had buried
himself there and was waiting
for movement near him to
explode into action ; a stream-
lined appetite behind ugly jaws.
Being a scavenger he recognised
the “dead” smell, and started
cautiously to follow the trail
upwater until he found the bait.
Had he been fed, he would
have been more cautious still.
But he was hungry. Instead of
holding the bait in his mouth for
five minutes, ready to eject it at
the first sign of strain, he seized
it firmly and gingerly tested its
reaction. Fifty feet away Harry’s
hands changed abruptly, from
the fumbling stubs that had
difficulty rolling a cigarette, into
movement as deft and sure as a
surgeons’s. They felt the tentative
draw and automatically paid-out
line.
Reassured, the flathead took a
deliberate bite. But the hook
was cunningly laced into the
fillet; and, anyway, the flathead
was used to food that erected
spines. He bit. And Harry
struck at exactly the* right
moment. “Flatty,” he muttered
in satisfaction.
He knew what he had from
the cautious approach and
withdrawal. No hit-and-run like
the bream. No exasperating
playfulness like the big perch,
those game, beautiful fighters
that the locals called barramundi.
Flathead bit like that on a dead
bait, nothing else did. Thirty-
seven years harvesting the
estuary told him the breed and
approximate weight of the fish
from the way it took the bait.
Two minutes later, despite
frantic zigzagging, the flathead
joined the bream in the bag,
which flopped sluggishly a few
times, then once again fell quiet.
'T'HE first fingers of flood-
-1 water crept over the ledge.
The south-easter had carried the
clouds on ; they were brushing
on the face of the tableland.
Moonlight gleamed palely on the
still face of the river.
Deep in the hole, what had
seemed a shadow among the
shadows stirred and moved. Full-
fed and lazy, the huge cod
drifted over the floor of the hole.
The frantic struggling of the
flathead had broken into its
trance-like hovering 1 and there
was a drift of blood in the
depths.
The crabs, sensing something
inimical, ceased their swimming
motions and froze ; hoping by
their inertia to escape notice.
The groper drifted forward,
fanned into deliberate motion by
the almost imperceptible flutter
of its pectoral fins. Like all the
cod tribe, it hunted in this way.
A drift until the quarry was
within range. Then the final
twist, the cavernous mouth
snapped shut, and the drift again.
It was as deadly and fierce a
killer as any of the greater cats,
and its jungle was the silent
world of the river-bed.
Knowing his prey’s habits,
Harry had stopped the line
paying out when the crabs were
about a foot clear of the bottom.
Otherwise they might have
worked their way into a fissure
of the old slate bar. The
groper drifted past the rigid
crabs unheeding, and prospected
the blood-smell until the fresh,
untainted water turned it back.
Then it paused in its gliding, and
let the tide carry it idly.
This was the crucial moment.
In the dinghy a new set of
forces had been brought into
play. After re-baiting and cast-
ing, Harry seated himself, not
amidships as formerly, but to one
side. The force of the turning
tide now came against the keel
and more of the side of the
dinghy than before.
This added pressure enabled
the water to overcome the wind
that had been holding the boat,
across the current. It started
to drift toward the other edge of
the circle centred on the anchor.
The crabs were carried helplessly
with it, and in the process of
travel the legs of one of them
were brushed against a rock that
protruded from the bottom of
the pool.
Instincts millions of years old
were brought instantly into
ieaction. The crab’s legs and
swimming - paddles began to
churn frantically as it tried
desperately to reach the safety
of the rocky bar.
The groper, feeling and hearing
movement, paused in its drifting.
It was no stranger to lines. There
was a rusting hook in its lower
jaw at that moment from which
trailed a two-foot length of slimy
cord like the feeler of a cat-fish.
It had broken all lines that it
had met previously almost with-
out effort, so although it knew
caution there was no great
wariness in the way it approached
this disturbance of its hunting-
ground. Like all cod, it loved
crabs as food above all else,
Harry, that wise man, knew the
weakness of his victims.
The huge fish, weighing more
than the frail boat above it,
ghosted down-current and, as the
dinghy brought-up to its cable,
the groper swallowed the bait.
AS the stone fell to the bottom
of the boat Harry was
caught napping. For a few
seconds he believed that it was
the jerk of the dinghy bringing-
up to its anchor that had
tripped the alarm. Or maybe the
line had snagged in its passage
across the bottom of the pool.
When he saw that the line kept
paying out even though the boat
had stopped moving he realised
what had happened.
But the few feet of line he
had thus wasted could prove
vital in the battle that lay ahead.
A hooked groper is not an active
fighter like the game-fish. It
sulks grimly on the bottom. If
it can reach a ledge or cavern,
it will hover beneath, letting the
main force of the pull be taken
by the stone above it. On a
line strong enough to stand the
strain, the sooner it is snubbed
off short the better.
When he realised he was into
a fish, Harry moved with speed
and deftness. The anchor-buoy
was tossed overboard and the
anchor abandoned to be
recovered later. Then aft, to seize
the line and heave with all his
power. Making no impression,
he whipped a turn around the
cleat placed there for the
purpose. Then, carefully
gauging the strain on the line,
he let the groper tow him stern-
first against the current.
He knew that he was into a
big fish by the steady, easy pull.
Big groper were worth a lot of
money ; best to take no chances
of losing this one. If this was
a clean one, free from the
cancerous, spongy growth that
sometimes afflicted them and
made them worthless, it meant
food, tobacco, twine for a new
bait-net, and the beer that was
the warmth in his lonely life.
These things passed across the
surface of his mind as he
expertly played the monster.
Secretly and almost uncon-
sciously, too, he was exultant.
Though he had never thought
about it, this ability to out-think
fish, and out-fish everyone else
in the little sugar-town, were to
him what money is to a miser,
or his brushes are to an artist.
It lifted him above the hoboes,
the pensioners, the Great Un-
shaven who were his constant
companions. Others might own
motor-boats, houses, cars, food
and money. But they couldn’t
catch fish like this!
The exultation rose to the
surface of his mind like a bubble;
but he put the good feeling down
to being fast into a big one at
three-o’clock in the morning.
That was enough to make a
man feel pleased with life! And
the tide was rising; that was
the beauty of it. He had timed
it exactly right.
TWO hours later saw little
difference in his position.
The lead gained by the fish in
the unguarded first ten seconds
had now been lost to it. The
tide had risen four feet, lifting
the dinghy by that amount above
the floor of the pool. The tough
cotton rope had been equal to
the strain so far, and Harry had
not had to pay out any to prevent
its breaking. Neither had he been
able to gain an inch.
The groper, faithful to the
pattern of its kind, had travelled
twenty yards upstream and had
reached the shelter of the under-
water cavern where it spent the
winter months each year. Now
it lay quiet, a huge living anchor.
Passive, wary, unbeaten ; waiting
the chance that had never failed
to come before —to snag the line
around a ledge, to fray the trace
or to break free by main force.
The odds against were mount-
ing every minute as the water
rose. The pressure of the water
against the bottom of the
buoyant dinghy was slowly
winning the grim tug-of-war. It
was the force of the sea against
the power of the fish ; and,
despite the tremendous strength
of beating from the engine of its
heart, the fish was losing.
Inexorably, almost imperceptibly,
it was being drawn upwards.
Harry sat patient and still
alert to every move and vibration
of the line. Over the coastal
spurs there was the usual riot of
birds and tangle of color that
greeted dawn. Harry could
afford to rest while the tide did
his work for him. He would
need his strength later.
Around the bend upstream he
heard the racket of a petrol
engine followed by the throbbing
of the diesel it started. That
would be Big Mick, warming up
Dainty ready to go out across
the bar after mackerel on the
flood-tide. Five minutes later
Dainty slid into view following
a course down the channel that
would take her within yards of
him. He made no move, watch-
ing the red head that made a
splash of violent color above
the coaming in the cabin-roof.
Mick’s blue eyes noted the
bobbing anchor-buoy, the taut
line, the still figure. His prehensile
toes juggled the throttle. Dainty
slowed and breasted past as
graceful as a gull.
“Need a hand, ’Arry?”
Good bloke, Mick.
“She’s right, Mick!”
Then Dainty was away, slicing
the water precisely with her
clean stem. She seemed impatient
for blue water.
UNEASY and tiring, the cod
began moving. Disturbed
by the sound of threshing screws,
it began sawing its huge head
from side to side, rasping the
trace against its horny jaws,
worrying at the thing that was
holding it.
The movement, coupled with
the rise of the tide, brought it
incautiously near the mouth of
the cavern. The upriver drift
and direct lift were too much
for it to overcome and regain
its old position. It could only
cling to the depths as best it
might and allow itself to be
dragged upstream.
This was what the patient man
had been waiting for. As the
end of the deep hole began
shelving gently upward the
current ran stronger. The line,
instead of running straight up-
and-down, began to slant astern.
Harry, bracing his feet against
the thwart, began to lever more
and more line in.
He was pulling the boat to the
fish, not the fish to the boat,
but the end was the same. As
the river shallowed to sixteen
feet near the black channel-
beacon he had an anxious
moment when he thought they
were going to pass on opposite
sides; but a supreme effort and
they were safely by.
Half-a-mile further upstream
and he knew that he had almost
certainly won. The line was
shortened-in until he could see
the massive brass swivel. He
could hold the strain easily with
one hand around the cleat.
The fish was exhausted and
drowning fast.
"OULLING in to the wharf in
A thin hot early sunlight the
triumph was all his: the exclama-
tions of the frowsy early-morning
loafers; Black Joey’s envious
eyes and knocking remarks.
Reflected glory to spare for
the bloke who lent his ancient
utility to carry the monster to
the freezer ; the warm knowledge
that the conversations in the
pubs would be all about him,
for a week at least. They would
talk about Harry’s groper.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/6 Foreign ....
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Offices
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Branches ana Agencies throughout
the World.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
EDEN AND MACMILLAN
/CONSIDERING the ferocity
of many of the press attacks
launched on him during his short
term as British Prime Minister,
Sir Anthony Eden was rather
gently farewelled by both the
British and American press when
he resigned. The total effect was
of admiration for his record as
Foreign Secretary, sympathy for
bis difficulties as Prime Minister
and, in general, an insistence that
he had to go.
Typical comment:
“Manchester Guardian” : “His
[Eden’s] policy has brought
Britain into its worst predica-
ment since 1940, and while he
remained at Downing - street
there could be no hope of
making good the damage. A
change of Prime Minister was the
first requirement for national
recovery.
“That we should have come
to this position is the more
regrettable when Sir Anthony’s
past record is remembered.
Especially in the days immedi-
ately before he became Prime
Minister he gave the country
outstanding service.
“For three achievements in
that period he deserves the
warmest thanks:
“One was his patient and
painstaking diplomacy at the
Geneva conference on South-
east Asia in the summer of 1954.
Without his immense personal
effort it is virtually certain that
the conference would have failed,
with possibly explosive results in
Indo-China and beyond.
“His second great achievement
in that period was to rescue
Western Europe and the
Atlantic alliance after the
failure of the European
Defence Community, which he
did again by exacting personal
diplomacy. The outcome then
was the London and Paris Agree-
ments, Western Germany’s final
attainment of independence, and
its entry into Nato.
“The third achievement,
coming hard on the heels of the
others, was the restraining of
the United States over Quemoy
and Matsu.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“His health, already shaken,
more than was apparent at the
time, by his illness in 1953, has
been unable to bear the burden
of one of the most exacting
offices in the world. Signs of
strain have long disquieted his
colleagues and supporters. The
view has grown up that neither
in physique nor, possibly in con-
sequence, by temperament is
Sir Anthony capable of sustain-
ing such a load.”
* * *
London “Daily Express” : “As
he leaves the seat of power, most
people in Britain will believe
that the policy he adopted over
Egypt was the right one. Its
frustration is a blunder and an
injustice.”
* * *
London “Daily Mirror” : “It
took him 32 years to become
Prime Minister. His friends
always believed that he was a
man of great promise: there was
great promise, but no fulfilment.
His final blunder was the
disastrous war over Suez, an act
which wrecked his past policies
and now has brought him down.”
* *
London “Daily Mail”:
“History may uphold his original
decision to go into Egypt. But
many a man who has been
justified by posterity has been
dispraised in his own day. This
may be the fate of Sir Anthony
Eden. What he tried to achieve
has, at least temporarily, failed.
His policies have fallen into
dust. Now others must save what
they can from the wreck.”
The same : “How ironical it is
that his ill-health and resignation
are a result of his defiance of
the international organisation he
did so much to build.
“Ironical, too, that one of
his first actions upon becoming
Foreign Secretary in 1936 was
to demand sanctions against
Italy for her adventure in
Abyssinia.
“Exactly 20 years later he
heard sanctions demanded
against Britain for the adventure
which he launched in the neigh-
boring country of Egypt.”
* * *
London “News Chronicle”:
“There can be no question that
all along he believed he was
acting in the best interests of his
country. Equally, the breakdown
in his health must be attributed
very largely to the immense
weight of responsibility he
carried when he led a bitterly
divided country into action
against Egypt in defiance of
world opinion. But the critics
will also argue that the scars of
Suez have eaten so deeply into
the life of the nation that a
change of leadership had become
essential in any case.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”: “He
came under exceptionally heavy
fire from the press —as much
from Conservative papers as
from Socialist —and there were
constant rumors of serious
dissension inside his own
Cabinet. He has had to deal
with complex domestic
problems and international
crises more acute than anything
a British Government has faced
since 1939. The climax came
with a situation in the Middle
East which rendered violently
controversial action (or con-
spicuous lack of action) inevi-
table. The Prime Minister’s
personal prestige -was inextric-
ably connected with the fortunes
of the Suez adventure from its
glad, confident morning to its
obscure and chilly twilight.”
London “New Statesman”:
“His collapse could provide a
tragedian with a familiar theme:
his is the story of a weak man
who allowed anger and pride to
dethrone his judgment, threw
in his lot with tougher spirits
and had not the stamina either
ILLINGWORTH IN LONDON “DAILY MAIL.”
to confess his error or to com-
plete a course of violence that
was alien to his nature and made
nonsense of his record.”
* * *
London “Sunday Times”:
“There is bitter irony in the
departure from the international
scene of a man of honor and of
high diplomatic accomplishment
to the barely concealed delight
of other figures who have
become a byword for ignorance
or duplicity. Bitter irony, too, in
the obloquy, as a merchant of
war, lately heaped upon one
whose public life for 30 years
had been dedicated to the
interest of peace and inter-
national order.”
* * *
London “Spectator”: “There
can be no doubt that his decision
to resign was right. His resigna-
tion was politically desirable as
well as medically necessary.
Whatever the merits of his Suez
policy, it split the country down
the middle. His successor must
inevitably be deeply involved in
the same policy, but, as the
resignation of Sir Samuel Hoare
after the Hoare-Laval pact
showed, the resignation of the
single Minister particularly
responsible for, and identified
with, an action or a policy can
suffice, even though in strict
logic it should be ail or none.
Sir Anthony’s departure will
make it much easier for the
country to resume its accustomed
degree of unity on questions of
foreign affairs. It will also
smooth negotiations with
America and will do something
to heal the scars that recent
events have left on the
Commonwealth.”
* * *
“New York Times”: “The
immediate cause of his departure
is undoubtedly the failure of the
British-French intervention in
Egypt, which turned into a
political and military debacle of
serious consequences to Britain,
to Europe and to much of the
free world. Yet in deciding on
this intervention Sir Anthony
was only true to himself and to
the principles he long repre-
sented. These principles called
for opposition to the appease-
ment of dictators. In defence of
these principles he ’resigned as
Foreign Secretary in 1938
because of Prime Minister
Neville Chamberlain’s attempts
to appease Mussolini and Hitler,
and in defence of the same
principles, as Prime Minister, he
undertook the intervention in
Egypt in an effort to stop both
President Nasser’s provocation
and Soviet penetration of the
Middle East.”
* * *
New York ‘‘Heral,d Tribune”
editorial comment: “There is
no gainsaying the fact that
British policy in the Middle East
has not succeeded, and, as its
architect weary and dis-
appointed—Sir Anthony felt it
best, for reasons of health, to
pass the task to other hands. To
the end, he has maintained the
correctness and justness of his
policies, and only history can
say whether, with* better staff-
work and a more rapid military
operation, they might have
attained their objectives.”
* * *
Stewart Alsop in New York
‘‘Herald Tribune” : “The resigna-
tion of Sir Anthony Eden as
Prime Minister of Great Britain
was a genuine personal tragedy.
It was also an absolutely
necessary first step toward repair-
ing the shattered Anglo-
American partnership. A
partnership, after all, is based on
mutual trust —it can hardly
operate successfully if one
partner is for ever suspecting the
other of rifling the till behind
his back. Since the Suez adven-
ture, a relationship of mutual
trust between the Eisenhower
Administration and any British
Government headed by Eden
could not possibly exist.”
* * *
Walter Lippmann in New
York “Herald Tribune” : “It was
Eden’s fate to have to do what
Churchill once vowed he would
never do, to preside over the
liquidation of the British
Imperial position in the Middle
East.”
The same: “The official
American view has been that it
could nbver again trust Eden
after his failure to consult in
October. The corresponding
view in England has been that
after its experience in negotiat-
ing with him over Suez it could
never again trust Dulles. So
Washington is relieved that Eden
has retired, and London will be
relieved when Dulles retires.”
V * V
Geneva “Journal de Geneve ” :
“It is a rather melancholy
spectacle to see a statesman
whose career was a chain of
successes bring it to a close with
a failure at the time when 30
years of continued efforts was
bringing him a well-merited
consecration. Eden was Prime
Minister only 20 months, while
he was constantly re-elected to
Parliament since the age of 26;
was, at 38, the youngest
Secretary for Foreign Affairs and
was a member of every
Conservative Cabinet.”
Mr. Macmillan
The most common press-
opinion in both Britain and
America regarding Mr. Mac-
millan’s appointment in pre-
ference to Mr. Butler was that
Mr. Macmillan was much better
situated to heal the breach
within the Conservative party
itself, Mr. Butler’s opposition
to the Suez adventure having
alienated the Right-wing of the
party.
Typical comment:
‘‘Manchester Guardi a n” :
“That he [Macmillan] will be
a competent Prime Minister no
one need doubt. He has done'
well as a departmental Minister
successively in Housing, Defence,
the Foreign Office, and the
Treasury. That is a wide range
to have covered in five years —
too wide, perhaps, for the benefit
of individual departments, but
valuable in a man now called to
the highest office —and in each
appointment he has left behind
him a good reputation and a


Divorce Notices.
TO ERIC LAWRENCE WELLS (Re-
spondent), late of West Royd Newall
Carr, Otley, Yorkshire, England. A Peti-
tion for Divorce has been filed against
you. Upon an application by letter to
the District Registrar, District Registry
of the High Court, Albion Place, Leeds,
a copy of the Petition will be sent. If
within 80 days hereafter no application
has been made nor appearance entered the
Court may hear the Petition and pro-
nounce judgment. —J. H. LAWTON, Dis-
trict Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH, WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOAN MATILDA MARY FIFE late of
Penrith.—TAKE NOTICE that REGINALD
RICHARD FIFE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4037 of 1956 oh the ground
of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards If you
Wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
House, King Street Sydney by the 18th
day of March 1957 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from MESSRS.
RbATCHFORD & EASTON, 81 Elizabeth
Street. Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend
WOULD ARTHUR RUPERT GEORGE
CAMERON, who probably went to Aus-
tralia from New Zealand between 1925
and 1930, or any person having know-
ledge of him, please communicate with
the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
A.P.M. RAISES POWER TO MAKE PAPER (No. 6 of a series)
mm
i
P
tm
M
m
x-m
m
mt.
mm
§gg§H
S 3
&>s#m
w
'Mm
Wm
Power makes paper for a nation’s needs
The powerhouse, heart of a mighty plant,
where power is generated 24 hours a day
to keep the giant paper-making machines
of A.P.M. producing.
A.P.M.—Australian Paper Manufacturers
Ltd.—generates most of its own power in
its own stations, which are amongst the
largest in Australian industry.
Last year, A.P.M.’s power stations used
some 400,000 tons of Victorian brown
coal, a large proportion of which came
from Maddingley Brown Coal Pty. Ltd.
a subsidiary company of A.P.M. They
also consumed 67,000 tons of black coal
in N.S.W. The total electric power gen-
erated by A.P.M. would light, heat and
service a city of some 85,000 people.
These great power stations make an im-
portant contribution to the efficient,
economical operation of A.P.M., Austra-
lia’s largest producer of wrapping paper
and paperboards*.
*The term paperboard embraces card-
board, fibreboard and other heavyweight
paper . Basically the same raw materials
are used for paperboard and paper.
•m= m 9
Buv Australian Made
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman Street, South Melbourne.
Mills at Melbourne,‘'Fairfield, Maryvale, Broadford m
Victona, Botany, N.S.W., and Petrie, Queensland.
record of achievement. He has,
in addition, a flair and on
occasions a fire which can stir
people to a belief in his leader-
ship.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post”: “He has
qualities of mind and character
that should help him to succeed.
He has the toughness of fibre
which the Premiership demands
in these days of tension. He
has a sustaining gaiety of spirit.
He has drive, as he demonstrated
as Minister of Housing. As
Chancellor of the Exchequer he
has shown both imagination and
courage. There is little doubt
that he is the man best fitted to
command the united support of
Conservatives in present circum-
stances and to give the party
new heart and resolve at a
testing moment.”
* * *
London “Economist”: “Mr.
Macmillan’s appointment is
presumably intended to bind up
the wounds of Suez, but what it
has really enswathed beneath the
bandages is not, at first sight, the
harm to the nation, but the
hurt feelings of the Conservative
party itself.”
* * *
London “Daily Express” : “To
the Empire party, especially, Mr.
Macmillan has done little to
endear himself. He has become
the prophet of the European
Free Market project. That
mirage can bring no benefit to
Britain. It may work untold
harm to the Empire concept.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman” : “Not
since 1935 has there been a
Prime Minister of this country
with a Scottish name.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph ” :
“For the task of restoring co-
operation [between Britain and
the U.S.] Mr. Macmillan is well
equipped. Among other things,
his mother, like Sir Winston’s,
was an American.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“During World War 11, Mr.
Macmillan helped arrange the
settlement in North Africa
between French Generals De
Gaulle and Giraud, and was
Britain’s first representative to
the French National Committee
of Liberation.
“His close association with
American officials —more specifi-
cally, with President Eisenhower
—dates from these same war
years. As Minister Resident at
Allied Headquarters in the Medi-
terranean, he was a close adviser
of General Eisenhower in deal-
ing with the political and civil
problems of the area.
“Similar success attended his
negotiations in the Greek civil
war in 1944. Movements to
further European unity and co-
operation have had his unstint-
ing support; he is a well-known
figure at the United Nations and
in Washington.
“Like Sir Winston Churchill,
Mr. Macmillan had an American
mother, a girl from Indiana who
married a Scotsman.”
* * *
“New York Times”: “Mr.
Macmillan, though only recently
risen to fame, is a man in the
Churchillian tradition. Like Sir
Winston, he is a stout but also
realistic defender of the British
Empire and Commonwealth. He
fought side by side with Sir
Winston and Sir Anthony against
Neville Chamberlain’s appease-
ment policies in the ’thirties and
staunchly backed Sir Anthony
in the Suez venture. As such,
he is acceptable to the Right-
wing Conservatives.
“But, like Sir Winston, he is
also an intellectual, a
philosopher, an author, a man,
in Sir Winston’s phrase, of ‘fear-,
less intelligence’ and independ-
ence of mind. As such he became
at one time a rebel in Tory
ranks who later tried to reform
the Conservative party’s
approach to social and economic
problems. These same traits also
induced him to shift ground in
favor of withdrawal from Suez
when the economic consequences
of failure became evident.”
China
Report on China in a letter to
London “Daily Telegraph” from
Dr. W. G. Goddard, a former
professor at West China
University at Chengtu:
“Again and again Asians have
remarked to me that all the talk
in the United Nations by repre-
sentatives of the free world has
not liberated one individual
from Communist tyranny. They
have reminded me that the
Hungarians are fighting for
freedom, not charity-parcels.
“My own experiences have
convinced me that what has
happened in Hungary is taking
place every week in Communist
China, with the result that Hong
Kong is rapidly becoming an
Asian slum because of the
increasing numbers of Chinese
refugees from Communist China.
“It is true that Communist
China has been wisely kept out
of the United Nations, but
Russia stays in Hungary in
complete disregard of all the
resolutions condemning her.
“In recent weeks I have heard
such accounts of Chinese Com-
munist savagery from the victims
themselves that I have
wondered if the free world has
any conscience left, especially
where Asians are concerned.
“Oil and the Western Alliance
are not the major concerns while
nearly one-fifth of the human
race is being ground to the dust
by the most despotic brutality in
history. I write as an Australian
and from personal experience
when I state that the most
terrifying challenge will come to
my country from Peking.”
Suez and Migration
The rush of Britons to
migrate following the U.K.’s
humiliation over Suez —
Canadian, Australian and New
Zealand emigration offices were
besieged “as never before”
(“Manchester Guar d i a n”) —
moved London “Daily Tele-
graph” to calculate that the rate
of applications for Canada, if
maintained, would mean that
more than 300,000 Britons would
wish to emigrate during 1957,-
while only 50,000 air- and sea-
passages were available for
them.
Pondering over possible
causes “resurgence of the
pioneering spirit” or “devastating
criticism of shrinking oppor-
tunities at home” —the “D.T.”
questions whether the U.K. is
“losing those whom we can ill
afford to lose, but who have lost
faith in us? Or are we jettison-
ing a lot of dead wood?”
According to the Canadian
Immigration Service in Britain,
however, it is “getting an
extremely good cross-section of
British life,” including school-
teachers, nurses, clergymen and
skilled workers.
Many of these skilled workers,
the “D.T.” adds, have seen the
red-light of unemployment,
which they discern under the
softening veils of redundancy
and part-time. Some of the-
more experienced among them
were children in the ’thirties, and
during the expansive years since
1945 they have been determined
that they and their families shall
not suffer in the same way again.
“This has, in many cases, led
to lavish expenditure of good
incomes where saving would
have been more prudent. But
the tightening of belts is a
process which cannot always be
applied suddenly, especially when
hire-purchase contracts have
been signed.
“We [Britain] are likely also
to lose many scientists and tech-
nicians. These are already few
enough, but they can hardly be
blamed for looking to the future.
Of all classes in the community,
they are perhaps the most
dependent on an expanding
economy.
“It would be wrong to blame
those who have decided to
emigrate?—so pat, it seems, upon
the rigors which will follow the
misadventure of Suez—for seek-
ing better fortune elsewhere.
Self-interest is not a wholly evil
sentiment, particularly when, as
in this case, it leads to a redis-
tribution of Britons which has
long been advocated on grounds
of the, highest patriotism.”
Various Voices
President Eisenhower: “The
reason for Russia’s interest in
the Middle East is solely that of
power - politics. Considering
her announced purpose of
Communising the world, it is
easy to understand her hope of
dominating the Middle East.
This region has always been the
crossroads of the continents of
the Eastern Hemisphere. The
Suez Canal enables the nations
of Asia and Europe to carry on
the commerce that is essential
if these countries are to maintain
well-rounded and prosperous
economies. The Middle East
provides a gateway between
Eurasia and Africa.”
M. Pineau: “We can only feel
a sense of shame for the
impotence of our international
organisations. In twelve vital
days the United Nations gave the
best part of its time to Suez,
thus showing far more interest in
the difficulties of a dictator than
ip the martyrdom of the entire
Hungarian people.”
Belgian Foreign Minister M.
Spaak : “In the present United
Nations set-up, everything short
of war is allowed. Treaties may
be violated, promises can be
broken, a nation licensed to
menace its neighbors, or to
perpetrate any kind of trick upon
it, just as long as there is no
actual war.”


Matthews, Thompson and Co., Ltd.
TNCORPORATED in 1921, Matthews,
Thompson and Co. originally con-
fined its activities to grocery-manufactur-
ing and -wnoiesalmg. Today—as a
holding co. —it controls 34 subsidiaries
which carry on the original business as
well as operating a large chain of retail
grocery-stores, 13 country general-stores,
two country motor-garages (holding Ford
franchises) and a small finance co. A
wine-and-spirit merchant and an export
organisation are also included in the
group.
The manufacturing subsidiaries have a
small export-market, but most of the co.’s
business is found in N.S.W.
In July, 1952, the group controlled 311
retail units, most of which had been
acquired over the three preceding years.
In that period of swift expansion Carlisles
Pty., S. R. Buttle Pty. and United
Groceries (with subsidiaries Goodlands
Pty. and Walter Cavill Pty.) were taken
over, and Savoy Nutrifoods Pty. and
R. B. Manufacturing Pty. added to the
manufacturing strength of the group.
The paid capital, £lOO,OOO in 1946, had
reached £1,107,650 by June, ’5l, £502,295
of the increase coming from cash issues
(including 100,000 £l5 p.c. prefs.) and
£201,530 from share-premium and revalu-
ation reserves. Further exchanges of scrip
for assets have brought the total paid-up
capital to £1,372,343.
Earnings didn’t keep pace with the
capital-growth, and although the ord. div.
was dropped from 12| p.c. to 8| p.c. in
1953, the distribution exceeded trading
profits. In the following year the div.
was reduced to 4 1-6 p.c. on the discovery
of irregularities in the accounts of a
subsidiary.
By concentrating on the development
of larger retail-units, particularly in the
self-service field, and closing-down a
number of the smaller grocery-stores,
some progress was made in 1955, and the
accounts to June 30, 1956, show a further
improvement in earnings. Turnover was
down approximately £250,000 at
£12,250,000, but the greater economy of
the self-service system and the closure of
unprofitable stores enabled a £14,810
increase in net profit, £140,121, claimed
after providing an extra £21,864 for taxa-
tion (£101,444) and £58,561 (up £7894)
for depreciation:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
( - Dividends \ To Re- Re-
June, Profit. —\ Ord. serves, serves.*
13jp.c. sp.c. 13sp.c.
£ £ £ £ £ £
Assets revalued, £140,964 .. 340,137
Share premiums, £122,192 .. .. 462,329
Reserves capitalised, £201,530 .. 260,799
Capital profit, £32,756 . . . . 293,555
Share-issue expenses, £3750 .. . . 289,805
1951.. 726 2666 3333 97,674 35,053 324,858
12i p.c. 12|p.C.
Net addition reserves, £BOl2 .. .. 332,870
1952.. 276 2499 5000 127,747 16,030 348,900
8J p.c. 8J p.c.
Net addition reserves, £102,081 .. 450,981
1953.. 701 1667 5000 103,561 452,508
10 p.c. 4 1/6 p.c.
Net reduction reserves, £88,501 . . 364,007
1954.. 79,776 2000 5000 52,181 20,595 384,602
8i p.c.
Addition reserves, £1331 .. • • 385,933
1955.. 125.311 2000 5000 104,361 13,950 399,883
Addition reserves, £1519 .. 401,402
1956.. 121 2000 5000 104,362 28,759 430,161
* Subject to intangibles, £264,576 at 30/6/’56.
Ord. div., restored to 8| p.c. in 1955, was
maintained at that rate, earnings covering
the pref. divs. and 10.6 p.c. on ord.
capital, compared with 9.4, 5.8, 8.3, 14,
and 18.1 p.c. in the preceding five years.
Conversion of retail stores to self-
service is continuing (there are now 91
self-service stores and “markets”), and,
with the erection of a new factory at
Meadowbank (N.S.W.) and the purchase
of a warehouse at Silverwater (N.S.W.),
capital-expenditure last term added a
net £266,469 to the “valuation or cost”
book-value of fixed assets:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £120,000 £120,000 £120,000
Ord 1,252,343 1,252,343 1,252,343
Reserves .. • • 384,602 399,883 430,161
Outside interests. ! 159,039 150,000 150,000
Mortgages . . 193,889 228,569 426,704
Overdraft .. 943,636 725,284 796,793
Creditors, etc. .. 666,991 961,524 943,470
Fina] divs. . . 3,667 66,117 66,117
£3,724,167 £3,903,720 £4,185,588
Freeholds .. .. 774,520 870,335 1,027,396
Leasehold.. . . 43,917 54,739 87,634
Plant . . . . 525,771 618,602 695,115
Investments .. 4,404 4,166 1,772
Stock .. .. 1,609,725 1,530,635 1,511,158
Debtors . . . . 429,318 506,998 568,617
Cash, bonds .. 58,438 34,990 29,320
Intangibles .. 278,094 283,255 264,576
£3,724,167 £3,903,720 £4,185,588
The alterations to stores and the new
buildings were financed by an increase of
£198,130 in the long-term (mortgage) loan
and an extra £71,509 from the bank.
Shareholders’ funds amount to 43 p.c. of
the balance-sheet totals, which include
£264,576 of intangibles.
The manufacturing, retail and wine-
and-spirits offshoots have, of late, been
the main profit-winners for the group,
and they may continue to improve their
position as new plant and self-service
techniques are introduced in the current
year.
The f.-p. ss. ords. have a net tangible
cover of ss. Id., and at ss. 2d. return
8.1 p.c. from an 8| p.c. div. The prefs.
are rarely traded, the £20,000 of partici-
pating first prefs. sharing with the ords.
any surplus after repayment of capital.
Dangar, Gedye & Malloch, Ltd.
D., G. & M. and Subsidiaries.*
v Dividends N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. r Ord. ■, serves, serves.
8 iSs 5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
’51..77,046 7,342 16 p.c. = 26,569 43,135 201,671
Unexplained addition, £1195 .. 202,866
’52..72,163 9,078 12$ p.c. = 23,160 39,925 242,791
Unexplained addition, £7411 .. 250,202
’53..60,836 9,842 121 p.c. = 23,160 27,834 278,036
’54..60,379 9,842 12$ „ „ 24,533 26,004 304,040
’55..61,515 9,842 12$ „ „ 30,017 21,656 325,696
’56..16,598 9,842 3 „ „ 9,750 322,072
* After deducting outside shareholders’ interest,
A DISAPPOINTING year for D.G.M.
The £16,598 net profit claimed by
parent and subsidiaries was little more
than a quarter of the figure earned in
1955 and the immediately preceding years.
The amount written-off for depreciation
was bigger (up £4548 to £21,169), and
taxation at £14,534 (£33,280 in 1955) was
provided for on a higher scale (at about
9s. in the £ of disclosed profit, compared
with 7s. in the £ the year before). Biggest
stumbling-block by far, however, was the
heavy rains, felt most in N.S.W. and Vic-
toria, the two States in which the co.
does the biggest part of its business.
For all the hardship it meant last
year, though, the inundation has done
the countryside an immense amount of
good, and since early August D.G.M. has
experienced a “definite improvement” in
its sales.
Because the year went the way it did,
however, no final ordinary dividend was
declared. An interim of 3 p.c. was paid
in March. The fact that since April,
1955, the co. has had another £102,250 of
ord. capital to feed helps to explain the
board’s caution. On the total ord. figure
of £325,000 the balance of last term’s
profit, after allowing £9842 for the pref.
divs., was only 2.1 p.c., as against 21.5
p.c. in 1955, and 25.7, 27.5, 34 and 39.3
p.c. back to 1951. Average dividend over
those six years was 13 p.c.
Mainstay of earnings is the sheep-
shearing machinery, petrol- and diesel-
engines, lighting-plants, cream-separators
and other pieces of dairy equipment, and
general-purpose light trucks of R. S.
Lister and Co., whose agents D.G.M. are
in N.S.W. Other products cover a range
of farm, orchard and dairy equipment.
An offshoot, D.G.M. Refrigeration, Ltd.,
handles D.G.M. domestic refrigerators
and Kelvinator commercial refrigerators,
air-conditioners, radios and television-
receivers.
Following a policy of decentralisation,
new branches of the business have been
set-up in a number of important N.S.W.
country centres. The latest was one
opened last term at Young, where a
business handling Nuffield vehicles was
bought out.
In Victoria, where the Melbourne
branch was converted to a subsidiary in
1954 to concentrate on the distribution
of irrigation-equipment, little headway
has been made because of the wet weather
over the last two terms. More is
expected of recent arrangements for the
distribution of spray-pumps and D.G.M.’s
own manufactures in Queensland, S.A.
and W.A.
At the end of the term freeholds and
plant stood £21,048 bigger in the books,
investments were up £BBOO and the co.
carried an extra £78,805 stocks, financed
entirely by the bank:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— ' 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £175,000 £175,000 £175,000
Ord 212,772 325,000 325,000
Outside interests.. 6,779 7,053 10,158
Reserves . . . . 304,040 325,696 322,702
Mortgages .. 82,000 79,000 76,000
Overdraft . . .. 277,501 278,552 466,081
Creditors . . . . 238,022 239,474 194,999
Tax provision .. 51,780 41,001 31,059
Final div. .. 19,543 23,528 2,421
£1,367,437 £1,494,304 £1,603,920
Freeholds .. 129,630 139,739 147,031
Plant, etc. .. 94,267 114,301 128,057
Investments .. 7,111 9,500 18.300
Stocks .. .. 746,260 843,347 922,152
Debtors .. • - 389,437 385,081 385,462
Cash, etc. . . .. 732 799 730
Suspense a/c .. 1,537 2,188
£1,367,437 £1,494,304 £1,603,920
Still, current liabilities of £695,060 were
comfortably covered by stocks, debtors,
cash, etc., £1,310,532.
On ’Change the price of the £1 ords.
has eased over the last twelve months
from 31s. to 265. to give an immediate
return of only 2.3 p.c. on the basis
of a 3 p.c. div. Net asset cover is
395. lOd. a share. The 5 p.c. redeemable
prefs. are not listed on Change, and
neither firsts nor seconds have been
traded this year.
Wormald Bros. Industries, Ltd.
THIS old-established co. has done well
out of the great activity in the
building-construction industry, though
profit-ratios over the last couple of years
have lost some of the earlier lushness.
On ’Change, prospects are regarded
favorably, and the price of the f.-p. £1
shares has firmed in recent months to
355. 3d. (the best figure for more than a
year) for a yield of 5.7 p.c. on the basis
of a 10 p.c. div. The 5 p.c. prefs,, which
lend useful support to the ordinaries, are
discounted by the market to about 15s.
to return 6.7 p.c. ...
The organisation had its beginnings in
Melbourne and Sydney just on 68 years
ago, distributing fire-protection equip-
ment. Business expanded smartly, and in
1911 a co. was formed with a paid-up
capital of £20,000. A start was made on
the manufacture of steel roller-doors and
metal windows at Waterloo (Sydney) soon
afterwards. At present the co. has fac-
tories in every State and New Zealand,
making fire-protection equipment (in-
cluding the brands Grinnell and Simplex),
Steelbilt steel-shelving, lockers, office-
equipment, etc., Kirsch metal Venetian
blinds, Metalbilt shutters and doors,
Bangor sliding-track equipment, electro-
static coating-equipment, glueing-
machines and adhesives, paper-folding
machines and conveyors of various types.
Recently it secured an interest in a
new co. set up to make Kidde fire-
extinguishers in Australia and in another
joint venture with an American, co. to
manufacture architectural aluminium.
To finance development and complete
the acquisition of pref. scrip held in the
subsidiaries, following formation of the
holding-co in 1949, paid capital has h een
lifted from £276,000 to £1,564,406, includ-
ing £320,000 5 p.c. prefs. Over the last
seven years ord. shareholders, who put
up £699,012 of the new scrip at par, have
averaged divs. of 8.9 p.c. and had one
bonus-issue, of 9-for-25 in 1953.
Last term the long spell of wet
weather meant a smaller demand for some
items of building-equipment, and this,
together with the extra shilling-in-the-£
tax, were the chief factors behind the
lower return on average ordinary capital,
reduced to 17.1 p.c. compared with 19.2
p.c. in the preceding year, 30.7 p.c. in
1954 and 38.6 p.c. in 1953:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
t —Dividends —To Re- Re-
June, Profit.* Pref. Ord. serves. serves.)
£ £ £ £ £>
5 p.c. 8 p.c.
Reserves capitalised, £134,300 ..
Profit sale assets, £3951 .. ••
Written-off goodwill, etc., £10,413.. 48°,0il
1953..144,770 5,000 28,959 110,811 59«,322
Tax overprovided, £23,172 .. ■ •
From contingencies, £8631 .. 6_0,U0
Profit sale assets, £lB .. • • 629,143
Written-off goodwill, etc., £10,<39.. 618,404
Net unexplained reduction. £1392 .. 617,01-
10 p.c.
1954.. 174,935 6,833 54.775 113,327 730,339
Profit sale assets, £64,030 . . ■ ■ 794,369
Accumulated losses subsid., £95,330 699,034
Written-off goodwill, etc., .. 690,271.
Net unexplained reduction, £24,418 665,854
1955..138,857 16,000 63,872 58,985 724,839
Loss sale assets, £693 .. • •
Accumulated losses £33,468 690,6/8
Written-off goodwill, etc., £24,027 .. 666,60 l
Unexpiained addition, £26,738 • •
1956. .175,870 16,000 93,331 66,539- 709,9-8
* After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests,
t Subject to intangibles, £264,518 at 30/6/’56.
The amount set aside for taxation was
£77,746 bigger at £164,739 and deprecia-
tion provision claimed an additional
£3806 (£41,249). Distribution of 5 p.c.
to the prefs. and 10 p.c. on ord. capital
absorbed 62.2 p.c. of the term’s £175,870
profit, leaving £66,539 to be added to
reserves. After taking the interlineations
into account, including £33,468 accumu-
lated losses Of two companies acquired
during the year and £24,027 written-off
goodwill, etc., the gain in reserves was
only £35,089.
During the year a net £149,047 was
added to freeholds, plant, etc., £260,957
to stocks (£1,690,963) and £46,012 to
debtors (£762,515) financed mainly by
share capital, mortgages (up £56,512) and
bank overdraft (up £39,600):
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid ca.nital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref P •• £320,000 £320,000 £320,000
Ovd ‘ ‘ .. 605,400 638,733 933,305
Reserves .. • • 730,339 724,839 759,928
Outside interests.. 38,261 117,225 114,711
Mortgages 312,721 548,229 604,<41
Overdraft . . .. 264,148 572,243 611,843
Creditors, etc. . . 415,738 863,113 851,144
Final div. .. 12,775 20,049 40,66.?
£2,699,382 £3,809,931 £4,242,337
Freeholds, plant, etc. 992,382 1,311,055 1,460,102
Investments .. 11,350 47,303 46,596
Stock •• 879,154 1,430.006 1,690.963
Debtors .. 489,380 716,503 762,515
Cash etc . . 28,276 40,546 41,606
Intangibles .. 298,840 264,518 240,555
£2,699,382 £3,809,931 £4,242,337
Added factory space is being provided in
Melbourne this year to cope with a big
Government contract for airport fire-
tenders and more new showrooms are
planned, especially for country areas
where the co. says displays of its various
products have been most valuable.
To provide for further development and
to overcome the shortage of bank-credit
the co. issued another 311,101 ords., one-
for-three, last August. Including the new
capital net tangible asset support for the
ords. is 28s. 4d. and for the prefs.
£6 10s. 2d.
Supertex Industries, Ltd.
"pARLY in its career as a public co. this
N.S.W.-registered textiler performed
notably well. During the four years 1948
to 1951 shareholders received divs.
totalling 65 p.c. on their nominal invest-
ment and got back in bonus-scrip the
£120,000 of premiums they had put up
with £BO,OOO share-capital on the public
conversion in 1948. Then in the import-
flood in 1951-52 the co. was forced to re-
duce production, and earnings contracted
abruptly. Since then the only dividends
paid were 6 p.c. in 1953 and 5 p.c. in
1954, an average for the last five years
of 2.2 p.c.
The results of those early terms were
produced under very favorable conditions
for expansion. Cotton-goods were scarce,
and there had been an encouraging
reception for the co.’s chenille products,
which the founders of the business had
originally introduced from America in
1940. New factories were established at
Newcastle, Yass and Goulburn, where a
cotton-spinning mill was also installed.
Later the co. took over the Auburn
(Sydney) business of Australian Towel
Weaving Mills and added a yarn dye-
plant to the Goulburn factory.
Since the end of the boom efforts have
been directed mainly at the overhaul of
production and distribution. In 1954
the co. put the marketing of most of its
products in N.S.W. on to a direct mill-to-
retailer basis, and in the following term
closed down the factories at Yass and
Newcastle and transferred their activities
to new premises in Goulburn. Over the
last couple of years, too, the towel-
weaving section has been completely
reorganised. Much of the old equipment
has been scrapped and replaced by new,
up-to-date looms.
The concentration of operations at
Goulburn is expected to result in savings
in freights, administration and other
expenses, but for the year ended June 30
last, however, the cost of reorganisation,
plus the writing-down of certain
redundant materials and stocks, fell
heavily on earnings. After setting aside
£45,746 (£45,942 in 1955) for deprecia-
tion and £10,344 (£20,465) for taxation,
net profit was only £13,618, a drop of
£14,528 on the preceding year:
Parent and Subsidiary.
To Re- , Re-
June, Profit. / —Dividends— ■, serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1948.. 64,929 20 p.c. = 41,333 23,596 128,290
Unexplained addition, £591 .. ..
Added intangibles, £54,210 .. .. 74,599
1949.. 73,014 20 p.c. = 56,000 17,014 91,613
Reserves capitalised, £120,000 •• 1 n 055
1950.. 87,642 124 p.c. = 50,000 37,647 ) „
1951.. 82,650 12J „ „ 50,000 32,650 41,90 a
1952.. 24,288 Nil 24,288 66,193
1953.. 55,141 6 p.c. = 36,000 19,141 85,334
1954’. . 36,100 5” ” 30,000 6,100 91,434
Profit sale assets, £12,500 .. .. 103,934
1955.. 28,146 Nil 28,146 132,080
June,
1956.. 13,618 Nil 13,618 145,698
* After deducting intangibles, £64,210 at 2/7/’56.
As a percentage of paid capital the result
was 2.3 p.c., compared with 4.7 p.c. in
1955 and 6, 9.2, 4, 20.7 and 21.8 p.c. m
1950.
Sales were at approximately the same
level as in 1955, but trading was keenly
competitive, with a rising demand for
cheaper merchandise which means lower
profit-margins. According to the most
recent survey by the Department oi
Trade, the outlook for the cotton-textile
trade is generally better than it has been
for some time. The main threat to local
manufacturers comes from cheap im-
ported towelling and light cotton piece-
goods.
By the end of the year balance-sheet
finances were in better shape:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital . . £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Reserves .. .. 165,644 186,290 199,9 -
Overdraft . . .. 333,681 360,074 239,969
Creditors .. .. 92,050 172,374 140,038
Tax provision .. 27,000 23,650 13,1
Final dividend .. 15,000 •
£1,233,375 £1,342,388 £1,193,065
Freeholds, etc. .. 114,918 111,514 111,869
Plant .. .. 287,592 258,659 270,8-4
BS. ::' :: » S g feg
Intangibles * 74,210 . 54,210 '54,310
£1,233,375 £1,342,388 £1,193,06a
The co. worked-down or wrote-down ib
stocks by £133,076 and clipped £120,103
off the overdraft and £32,336 off its trade-
debt. The surplus of more-or-less liquids
was £30,548 stronger at £416,105.
The ss. scrip is currently priced at
2s. 9d. on ’Change. It hasn’t sold above
par in the last two years. Net tangibles
provide a cover of 6s. 3d. a share.


of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3i ins.,
61 x 3f and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
& O’Sullivan
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
SO4-SOB QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Jackson
COMMUNIST
INFILTRATION OF
CATHOLIC CHURCH
An American Bishop, the
Most Reverend Cuthbert
O’Gara has revealed that
Communism has penetrated
the Church in America. He
sees corroding elements in
Catholic classrooms and lecture
halls and EVEN IN
CATHOLIC PAPERS AND
PERIODICALS!
Bishop O’Gara’s electrify-
ing speech, suppressed in
most paKts of the world, now
available in the current League
of Rights Intelligence Survey,
a monthly digest of the facts
behind the news, £2 2s. a year.
Order from:
THE VICTORIAN
LEAGUE OF RIGHTS
Box 1052 J, G.P.0., Melbourne.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy novels by A. G. Hales. —
6455.
Words of the ballad that “coos
about a Richard Ulidge.”—64s6.
Early Australian recipes (e.g.,
Colonial Goose, Bombay Duck,
Johnny Cake, Quandong Pie, toffee
from waffle-gum and honey, etc.)
and, perhaps, their respective
histories. —6457.
Words of poem by Henry Lawson
dealing with the children of
McMahon’s Point, Sydney. —6458.
Information Sougdit
Some information on the Miles
Franklin literary award?
Under the will of the late Miss
Stella Maria Sarah Miles Franklin
(who died on September 19, 1954),
the trustee of her estate (Permanent
Trustee Co. of N, S. Wales, Ltd.) was
directed to establish a fund from
which prizes were to be awarded to
authotrs for the advancement,
improvement and betterment of Aus-
tralian literature. The will also
directed that any three or more of
five named persons were to be
appointed judges for the purpose of
selecting the prize-winning entry, and
all have agreed to act. Miss Franklin
made a further provision in her will:
that the prize “shall be awarded
for the novel for the year which is of
the highest literary merit and which
must present Australian life in any
of its phases, and, if there be no
novel worthy of the prize in the
opinion of the said judges, then
such award may be given as such
judges may advise to the author of
a play for stage or radio or television
or such medium as may develop, but
not for farce or musical-comedy.”
The administration of the estate has
now reached the stage where the
fund can be established, and in order
to retain the identity of the award
with the late Miss Franklin and her
family it has been decided to name
the fund “The Miles Franklin Fund”
and the award “The Miles Franklin
Literary Award.” The first award will
be made for the publication (during
the year ending December 31, 1957)
which best meets the terms expressed
by the late Miss Franklin in her
will, and will be worth £5OO. Any
further information may be obtained
by application to the Permanent
Trustee Co. of N. S. Wales, Ltd.,
23-25 O’Connell-street, Sydney.
* * * *
(1) Particulars on the growing of
waratahs front the plant ? (2) Market
prospects for the blooms?
[From Arthur Yates and Co. Pty.,
Ltd.] (1) The waratah, Telopea
speciosissima ( telopea , seen at a
distance; speciosissima, most
beautiful), is a hardy N.S.W. native
shrub which, though in its natural
state confined to the coastal areas or
inland only as far as the Blue
Mountains, lends itself to cultivation
in many different climates. It stands
both heat and cold, resisting most
severe frosts. Well-grown specimens
attain a height of up to 10ft. and
yield numerous magnificent crimson-
red bloom-heads during September
and October. The waratah thrives
in a variety of soils, but most garden
loams would be improved for it by
generous quantities of bush leafmould
and, if the ground is heavy, some
sand. Artificial fertilisers and
strong animal-manures should be
avoided, although old rotted cow-
manure could be used where leaf-
mould is unobtainable. The plants
enjoy most a position where they will
have ample sunlight and are sheltered
from strong winds. They will sicken
if other trees and shrubs overshadow
them. Waratahs resent any disturbance
to the root-system, and should always
be thoroughly watered after planting.
When young plants are about Ift.
high the centres should be nipped
out to induce growth from the leaf-
sockets and so form a well-shaped,
bushy shrub. Old, neglected plants
are often lanky and carry few
blooms. They should be cut back
hard about November, or just after
flowering, which may mean the loss
of some blooms. This will be more
than compensated for by increased
blooms in future seasons. Young
growth from the base of old clumps
can be nipped out at the top, which
will induce more bloom-stalks.
Cut the blooms—on long stems —
just as they are beginning to open.
It will be noticed that at the same
time as the flower opens two to three
green shoots appear within the base,
and if the plant can be relieved of the
effort in increasing the growth of
these shoots by cutting flowers early
it will produce new-flowering growth
from the eyes lower down on the
stem.
Waratahs are not difficult to
cultivate, but during dry weather
should be given sufficient water to
keep them well supplied with moisture.
Mulching with layers of bush-soil
from time to time will help to keep
the plants healthy and produce an
abundance of flowers. Rotted
animal-manures given to clumps will
do much to improve the quality of the
bloom.
The waratah can also be grown
from seed. This is usually sown from
about early August until, say, the
end of November. Make-up the seed-
bed soil of equal parts leafmould,
loam and sand. Seed-boxes can also
be used, but these must be well
drained by spreading a lin. layer of
small rubble over holes made in the
bottom of the box. Cover the seed
with about fin. of the mixture
described above. After covering the
seed, press the soil down firmly with
a flat piece of board and water
thoroughly. Kept moist, the seed
usually germinates in three to four
weeks. When young seedlings are
about 2-3 in. high, they can be trans-
planted direct into the positions where
they are to grow, spaced about 2ft.
apart. If desired, they can first be
planted in pots or tins. (Seed avail-
able at Arthur Yates, 184 Sussex-
street, Sydney; Is. a packet.)
(2) Suggested you contact either
Beatrice Stewart or Searl and Jeans,
both of King-street, Sydney.
* * * *
(1) Australia’s and (2) N.Z.’s
Service casualties in World War II ?
(3) British Empire Service casualties
in War II? (4) Casualties (including
civilians ) of some other belligerents
in War II ? (5) Russian casualties in
War II ? (6) Military casualties of
some of the principal belligerents in
World War I?
In many cases estimates and totals
vary; in some cases of war-casualties
no exact number is ascertainable,
Here are figures which appear to be
as accurate as can be given. (1)
Australia’s casualties for all Services
in the 1939-45 war: Killed (including
died of wounds, died while p.-0.-w.,
and missing, presumed dead), 33,826;
wounded and injured, 180,864; other
casualties, except deaths from natural
causes—6B7s killed, 157,650 injured.
(2) N.Z.’s casualties for all Services
in 1939-45 were: Died (including died
as p.-0,-w.), 11,515; wounded and
injured, 15,749. (3) Excluding Aus-
tralia and N.Z., here are British
Service casualties in World War II:
United Kingdom, killed, 244,723;
missing, 53,039; wounded, 277,090;
prisoners-of-war, 180,405. Canada,
37,476; 1843; 53,174; 9045. S.
Africa, 6840; 1841; 14,363 ; 14,589.
India, 24,338; 11,754; 64,354; 79,489.
(4) Germany, 2,100,000 killed;
2,900,000 missing ; 4,000,000
wounded; 500,000 civilian casualties
(dead and wounded). Italy, 389,000;
214,647; ; 179,800. Japan,
1.174,474; 1483; 4,616,000; 672,000.
China, 1,310,224; 115,240; 1,752,590;
. France, 166,195; ;
408,895; 174,620. Greece, 77,600;
; 70,000 ; 400,000. Netherlands,
6238 ; 87; ; 241.600. U.S. (Armed
Services only)—killed and died,
314,094; wounded, 668,653; prisoners
and missing, 151,597. U.K. civilian
casualties (killed, or missing believed
killed) in World War II totalled
60,585. French civilian casualties
include many who, as political
deportees, died in German camps.
Netherlands civilian casualties include
members of the merchant marine,
115,000 Jews and 120,000 others. (5)
The estimated loss of life suffered by
Russia in World War II ( Statesmans
Year-book, 1949) was at least
14,000,000—7,000,000 military and
7,000,000 civilian losses. (These
estimates based on speeches by Soviet
leaders.) (6) British Commonwealth
—killed and died, 908,371; wounded,
2,090,212; prisoners and missing,
191,652. (Australia, killed, died and
missing, 59,258; total casualties,
226,073. N.Z., 16,483; 57,887.)
Russia, killed and died, 1,700,000;
wounded, 4,950,000; prisoners and
missing, 2,500,000. Germany,
1,773,700; 4,216,058; 1,152,800.
France, 1,357,800; 4,266,000 ; 537,000.
Italy, 650,000 ; 947,000; 600,000.
U.S.A., 126,000; 234,300; 4500.
Austria-Hungary, 1,200,000;
3,620,000; 2,200,000. Turkey,
325,000; 400,000 ; 250,000.
* ' * * *
Some particulars of the collision in
Newcastle Harbor of the ferry Blue-
bell and freighter Warraneen?
On the night of Aug. 9, 1934, the
Bluebell, on its 10.45 p.m. trip from
Newcastle to Stockton, was struck by
the Warraneen, the two vessels
remaining locked together for just
under a minute, separating and the
Bluebell then sinking in a matter of
minutes. Three elderly women lost
their lives. The Court of Marine
Inquiry, delivering judgment on Aug.
24, 1934, found that the collision was
solely due to negligent navigation of
the Bluebell. It was the ferry’s duty,
the court found, to keep out of the
way of the Warraneen, whose captain
was exonerated.
* * * *
(1) Is the heir to the British throne
automatically created Prince of
Wales ? (2) Origin of the title ?
(3) Has any Prince of Wales died
before becoming King?
(1) The Heir Apparent to the
Throne, if the eldest (or eldest surviv-
ing) son of the Sovereign, bears
regularly the title of Prince of Wales,
but by personal investment and not
by birth. He is by right, among other
titles, Duke of Cornwall; it is at the
Sovereign’s pleasure that he is
created by patent Prince of Wales and
Earl of Chester. If the Heir
Apparent dies, a son of his —or, in
the absence of sons, a brother*—
naturally succeeds to his titles; but
that of Duke of Cornwall cannot be
borne by the son of a Prince of Wales
who has died as such. (A brother,
however, can succeed thereto, being
the eldest surviving son of a King.)
Six Princes who were Dukes of Corn-
wall were never created Prince of
Wales, but only two of these became
King—Henry VIII and his son,
Edward VI. (2) The title practically
dates from 1284, when Edward I, then
expecting the birth of his second son,
promised the Welsh a Prince of their
own. It was at first intended to be
wholly unconnected with heirship to
the throne of England, though itself
intended to be hereditary, the King’s
lands in Wales having in 1301 been
formally settled on the then Prince
and his heir. When the Prince
succeeded to the English throne as
Edward 11, his elder brother Alphonso
having died, the title became merged
in the British Crown. (3) Yes, there
have been several. Edward, the Black
Prince, bom 1330, created Prince of
Wales in 1343, died 1376 in the reign
of his father Edward 111 (1327-77);
Edward (1453-71), only son of Henry
VI, who was killed after the battle of
Tewkesbury (May 4, 1471) by some
noblemen followers of Henry’s rival,
Edward IV—this was the period of
the Wars of the Roses; Arthur, eldest
son of Henry VII and elder brother
of Henry VIII (1486-1502); Henry
Frederick, eldest son of James I and
elder brother of Charles I, who died
in 1612; Frederick Louis (1707-51),
son of George 11. who died as the
result of injury—George 111, son of
Frederick, succeeding his grandfather
in 1760. James Edward, the Old
Pretender (1688-1766), son of James
11, could perhaps be added to the
list, though there is doubt as to
whether he was created Prince of
Wales before his father’s flight (Dec.,
1688).
Brief Answers
H.F.S.: Peter Bladen’s “Lazy
Walkabout” is not available in book-
form. Back-numbers of The Bulletin
(Feb. 16, 1956, to Apr. 20), in which
it appeared in serialised form, are
available at lOd. a copy H.L.S.:
(1) No. (2) No direct articles; an
occasional paragraph, perhaps, or
reviews of his books... .E.M.W.:
Best suggestions, the recent leaders —
“Care of the Commonwealth” (July
11, 1956) and “Let’s Face it” (June
27, 1956).., .H.S.N.: We referred
your inquiry to a lawyer with a
knowledge of the position in Norfolk
Island. He advised that it would
require some careful investigation by
counsel before a definite reply could
be given. He continued: “On the
face of it, this requisition appears to
have been a resumption, and, if this
were so, the inquirer would have no
contractual rights to the return of the
land. It appears to me that the
matter is eminently one for repre-
sentation through the press or
through political channels.” It is
also worth pointing out that in con-
tracts giving an interest in land
written evidence is necessary, which
rules out any possibility of action
against the Commonwealth on the
grounds of your being told something
“before a friend”... .G.L.J.8.: (1)
The Archibald Memorial was handed
over to the City of Sydney by Mr.
T. H. Kelly (for Archibald’s trustees)
on Monday, March 14, 1932. (2)
A “Plain English” article and front-
page cartoon on the event appeared in
The Bulletin of 9/3/’32; another
“Plain English” appeared in the
23/3/’32 issue.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(20/1/’57)
February should prove to be a month of patchy rain-
fall, mainly below normal, in Queensland, although heavy
falls are likely on the coast (central and north), Peninsula,
and part of the north-west. General rains and widespread
flooding are likely during March.
Rainfall should be patchy and well below normal in the
greater part of N.S.W. during February, although reason-
ably good rains are likely on the south coast and southern
tablelands and in the far west. General rains should bring
relief to many areas of the State during March.
Moderately good rains are likely in Victoria during
February, but part of the Mallee, west coast and Gippsland
may get only light rain.
In W.A., heavy rains may commence in the north-
west and Kimberleys during February, and these should
move southward through a large part of the State.
LENNOX WALKER.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
DJ.F.: Pretty well anyone could
build a poem ot that sort whilst lean-
ing against the railings at Circular
Quay A.L.: The man who type-
writes his matter so close that a flea
would be crushed between the lines
puts hobble-skirts on himself in the
race for print... .M.B.: It is the most
promising prawn poem we have seen
for years. There is a painful scarcity
of prawn poems. Its rarity, however,
does not compensate for its technical
faults R.B.: Very poor stuff.
“Understood” is the awful jingle of
the In Memoriam column. Other
is the mournful, indefinite brand of
yearnful poem which struggles on,
weeping bitterly until it collapses in
a heap E.T.: Church-bell clatter
muffled in the basket... .N.L.:
Application for poet’s licence refused.
M.J.G.: It is an amiable,
loosely-contructed rhyme; but the
catalogue of Helen’s virtues gets
monotonous F.W.: Very dull and
long-winded L.L.: You wrestled
bravely with a small idea, but it beat
you easily F.N.: Excellent senti-
ments, but you don’t say the old
thing in a new way B.C.H.B.: Off
the trail in several places... .B.B.:
We have seen worse jingles than that
written by your old “gardener and
useful,” aged 75. But you had better
tell him to keep on watering your
marigolds and thistles... .H.B.K.:
Nobody can “sleep out under the
illimitable star-spangled canopy of
heaven” in this paper H.W.:
Frenzied poem just to hand about
some terrible crime which has been
committed in your midst. You have
omitted to mention what the crime
is. Suspect that is the poem.
... .P.S.: The skies were shrouded in
gloom when your letter fell in on
us: “It is my first attempt, and I am
thinking of adopting the composing
of poetry as a hobby in the future.”
Follows the fresh-made poem:
Disconsolate I stood and gazed upon the
turbid deep,
Befitting mirror of my storm-tossed
heart,
Soon beneath that seething mass my soul
shall sleep,
So haste, and from this dun-black
misery depart.
I plunge into the foam, when lo; beneath
the crest
Appeareth a lovely mermaid, who kindly
bade me rest.
Let us implore you to go in for some-
thing else —piracy, stamp-collecting,
politics or bushranging A.C.M.:
So far as we can see, you have tried
to boil down an ancient three-volume
novel into seven foolscap pages, and
the effect is confusing R.M.: It
has a few bright patches; here is one
of them: “He immediately became
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
seized with a fit of passion at this
refusal without any seeming cause,
and he immediately fled from her
side; moreover he left the house un-
ceremoniously” C.D.: The dirge
is hot and dusty with several metrical
boulders in its course It
isn’t a story—it is merely a slab of
misery H.D.: We don’t know
why you christened it “When the
Gods Slept.” It would have been
just as reasonable to have called it
“Keep off the Grass,” “Wait Here
for Trams” or “Smoking Prohibited.”
F.P.: “I Met My Love at Morn-
ing Time’V is altogether too cheerful.
One stanza: —
I saw my true love a-standing there
Smiling her sweet love to me
Behind her stood Death’s spectre grim
Grinning and laughing gleefully.
.... J.W.S.: Eight lines is a very short
ode R.J.D.: Sorry they hit you
with the hammef. You hadn’t shown
them any of your poetry, had you?
L.F.: But surely it was Henley,
not Herrick, who said he was master
of his fate? ... .R.P.T.: What’s all
that about? P.N.: No; we will
not pay for that poem, but we will
consider offering you a retainer not
to write any more... .O.B.: The thin
skeleton of an idea hopelessly lost in
the adipose tissue of your verbosity.
O.L.: “Foot-loose” footling
0.G.R.: If you want us to publish
Christmas poems, send them in
October; but, on the whole, don’t.
A.R.T.: Unless you can bring the
sonnet to life, leave it alone
M.N.: “Kite” crashed N.T.:
Verbiage antiquated and intolerable.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This? '
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
WOOL IN COLOR
IIRIDGLAND BROWN’S new
" documentary wool - film
“This Is Central Classing” was
to have been filmed in black-
and-white. It proved very clearly
a black-and-white case for color.
The film has been made with
two main objects: to give wool-
growers a better insight into
central classing, the most recent
major development in the wool-
industry, and to give younger
woolmen such as Junior Farmers
and trainee-woolclassers some
interesting and helpful informa-
tion to supplement their studies
in this aspect of wool.
In my own work on the film—
mainly script-writing—l looked
at a number of wool-films.
None of those I saw did
more than touch briefly on
woolclassing, and I could find
none listed in the principal
catalogues which showed promise
of doing so. From the wool-
grower’s point of view they all
missed an important and interest-
ing aspect.
There was a reason. Wool in
all its different types —and there
are thousands is extremely
difficult to photograph.
Wool is deceptively light, and
reflects. strongly, so that the
simplest shots are often over-
exposed and flat. (I have seen
many good professional photo-
graphers fail at this point; the
best results are nearly always
time-exposures.)
Because of the nature of wool-
classing, there are many charac-
teristics which are considered
impossible to convey photo-
graphically ; the principal one is
type.
The film .being dealt with
here was to show the class-
ing of a woolclip in con-
junction with a wool-pool—to
deal, almost exclusively, with
woolclassing and related aspects.
With central classing, the wool-
classer classes a clip right out,
so emphasis must be placed on
type-variation. As Jim Bridg-
land put it: “If we show a wool-
clip classed into 50 or 60 lines, a
wool-man will want to know
why it makes so many lines, and
the only way he can be convinced
is to see why.”
On the pooling side, the camera
had to show very accurately that
the type in a particular pool-bin,
although the wool comes from
many different clips throughout
N.S.W., is perfectly even.
On the tests we saw, black-and-
white could not have done this.
Both Jim Bridgland and Mac
Brown, who know woolclassing
from the practical as well as
business side, agreed with this.
As both a cure and a
preventative of foot-
rot formalin has
several advantages
over other treatments.
It is less dangerous
than arsenic, easier to
mix than the more
expensive, more poi-
sonous bluestone, and
does not stain the
wool. As a precaution
against shock and
set-back Elastrator
Rubber Rings should
be used for marking
and tailing lambs. It
is an excellent means
of reducing the risk
of fly-strike, too.
It was Bob Spike, managing-
director of Video Films, who
suggested some tests with color,
and color proved the answer.
Color brings wool to life.
There is at first one flat, muddy
color when you look at wool;
then, when you really look into
it, a whole host of colors. They
range from whites and greys to
orange, chocolate, yellow and
black, and there are the red,
green and blue tips of the
branding-liquids.
Every subtle change in the
subject or the background
Making a wool-film: cameraman Frank Parnell taking a shot of woolclasser
John Maroney at work.
affects the result in color.
In the film itself, distinct
types are distinguishable. So
clearly have some types been
brought-out that the commentary
had to be changed in one
sequence to avoid a faux-pas to
an observant wool-man.
An overlooker is checking a
line. It is a water-stain type and
the camera shows the water-
marks close-up—streaks of color
running through the wool. The
same stains in other lines are
brought in for emphasis. It was
not until the color-stock was
ready for the commentary that it
was noticed that what was pur-
porting to be a close-up of wool
in one line (or type) showed
several different types!
The commentary here now
concludes: “Obviously these
wools are not all out of this
line, but for interest have been
supplemented with several
other water-stained types from
this clip.”
By the use of color, a film has
been produced which, as far as
I know, is unique in the extent
to which it shows wool-types
and deals with woolclassing.
\ The clip chosen for the film
helped considerably in getting
the story of central classing
across. It was a larger-than-
average clip, comprising 57 bales
of Merino. It was grown by
Norman Blackstock and Sons on
Claremont, at Trewiiga, in the
central west of the State,
and in growing it was subject to
the excessive wet in the early
part of 1956,
As well,- the clip had been
grown actually in two localities,
which would have proved a
problem also had it been shed-
classed, because of possible
variation in dust-content and
vegetable-fault.
How important it was to show
type-variation is reflected in the
fact that the clip classes into
a total of 78 lines, four main-
lines and 74 pool-lines.
Making a color-film in a wool-
store taxed to working-capacity
in the past two seasons (there has
been a considerable jump
recently in the work of all
central-classing houses) had its
full complement of production
problems. Video cameraman
Frank Parnell filmed the clip
under actual working-conditions.
Depending on its size, a clip
is worked on a classing-square
1500 sq. ft. to 2500 sq. ft. in
area. It gradually spreads over
this area in dozens of heaps or
lines. It took 16,000 watts to
light a scene such as this, with
some leads coming 150 feet.
(Because of the lighting factor
there are few long shots, and
these are not really long.)
To keep the film-unit as much
as possible away from the main
body of work in the store, store-
manager David Gilkes (who
makes the commentary on the
film) chose a corner classing-
square. As it turned out, this
also helped the lighting.
By “bouncing” some of the
light off the corner walls, which-
are white, it was possible to give
much greater back- and side-
lighting to the numerous heaps
spread over the floor —to give
them “lift.”
David Gilkes makes the
commentary on the film as a
wool-man. Although he is not
a trained narrator, he was once
an instructor at the Sheep and
Wool school at East Sydney
Technical College.
When he says “64’s” (referring
to spinning quality) he says it as
a wool-man says it; when he
uses a phrase like “lambs, lox,
bellies, etc.,” there is a rhythm
about it, and a word like “bellies”
doesn’t stick-out as though he’s
startled by it.
Once the film-unit moved away
from the classing-square, matters
could have become really com-
plicated but for the help of
David Gilkes and his production-
manager, Harold (“Toe”)
Winning, who is also well known
throughout the wool-trade.
David is medium build and
height, quick-moving. He is
quietly-spoken, with a scholarly
approach and interest in wool.
He checked and re-checked
dozens of minor as well as major
points for technical accuracy.
Toe is a huge man, with a
voice to match. It can be heard
from one end of the store to the
other. He “drove” the unit.
Once a scene was set the unit
would report to Toe and he
would bring in the actors and
extras. He would cast his eye
over the scene and invariably
check: “Now are you ready !
Either you’re ready or you’re
not, and we don’t want any more
of this mucking about!"
A clip the size of the Black-
stock one takes from eight to 10
working days to fully class.
Many feet were shot on the early
stages of its handling, but there
are big jumps in the middle
classing to avoid repetition.
Rather than have the unit wait-
ing around, it was decided to
shoot all in-between shots and
the shots of the wool pool
during these breaks.
The woolclasser in the film
was an important selection. John
Maroney is a good classer with-
out fussy airs; just before the
film he spent two months classing
at Tonga, between Wilcannia
and Wanaaring. He proved next
to perfect in every scene except
where he showed his hands.
On one occasion the camera
moves in close to show him
plucking a staple from a fleece.
It was filmed three times before
the shot was successful. As
someone remarked, John was so
nervous he couldn’t have picked
flowers in a garden.
Filming is by nature a slow
business, but on just one occasion
the unit was really pushed. It
was on the shooting of a press-
ing scene with a woolpresser by
the name of Harry Baxter.
Many people know Harry as
“Billy” Baxter, the welterweight
of the 1930’5, but he is today an
extraordinary piece-worker.
To press a bale of wool
quickly takes eight minutes. To
get this into 30 or 40 seconds for
the film was no trouble. The
problem was stopping Harry. In
47 weeks of 1956 he pressed
3,740,0001 b. of wool —seven to
eight tons a day, lifted head-
high into a woolpress. For every
five minutes the unit delayed
him it cost Harry three shillings.
If he sometimes wonders
whether he can press any faster,
Harry should ask Video film-
editor Joe Scully to run a print
of “This Is Central Classing”—
in a viewer, the characters bob
about like mechanical dolls.
Harry hurls the wool into the
press, runs up and down on it,
and slams out a bale in less time
than it takes to put the next
pack in.
As well as going to trainee
woolclassers, a copy of the film
has been donated to the N.S.W.
Film Council, and will be avail-
able to farmer-organisations
through this body about the
beginning of February. •
Gerry Mulholland.
Oat-seeding
“Warrion”: Tasmania’s mild
summers and regularly damp
autumns enable oat-varieties
such as Algerian and Algeribee
to be sown for grazing earlier
than on the mainland —not later,
as one would expect in a wetter
and later climate.
In most parts of the island,
oat-sowings begin in January and
continue until April. This early
start gives the late-season
varieties such as Algerian a
chance to produce some feed in
the early winter, then recover for
several succeeding grazings until
the plants run to ear late in the
year.
Tilt, of the Tasmanian Depart-
ment of Agriculture, advises that
some roughness of the ground is
ap advantage for seedings in the
late autumn, to prevent the soil
setting with the heavy winter
rains, and before the oat-plants
have covered the ground.
Although some mainland
farmers sow oats in February,
the risk of a dry autumn gives
an element of chance to the
success of any seedings earlier
than, say, the end of March.
Queensland Trends
“Ag.”: Queensland agri-
culture got a big lift last year
from improved-pastures. Nearly
1300 acres of irrigated-pastures
alone were sown in 1956. The
total for the State is now some-
where around the 4000-acre
mark ; and, of course, there’s the
dryland pasture to add to that
total.
These pastures are pushing
away from the coastal belt. Last
year large tracks of brigalow-
country were cleared and sown.
It isn’t hard to imagine what this
means to the State’s economy.
Much of the brigalow was
killed-out by hormones sprayed
on from the air, and some of the
blocks were sown from planes.
There’s a great future in this
State for irrigation, and many
schemes for damming-up creeks
and rivers are going ahead.
Queensland is a land of vast


JUST ONE BRUSHING WITH
Colgate
Dental
Cream
eHt^ v
eso 1 *
CLEANS
YOUR
BREATH
m
m
m
~ 4
i
ft
5". .
1
WHILE IT
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
fg^;
STOPS TOOTH DECAY BIST!
Scientific tests over a 2-year period show a startling reduction
in tooth decay for those who brushed their teeth with
Colgate’s right after eating! In fact X-rays showed no new
cavities whatever for almost 2 out of 3 people.
Keeps children's teeth healthy
Scientific tests showed that the Colgate way
of brushing teeth right after eating stopped
decay for more people than ever before
reported in all dentifrice history. Your
teeth are whiter brighter and you
are assured of round-the-clock protection
against decay-causing enzymes.
Colgate Dental Cream is Australia’s largest -
America’s largest - the world’s largest selling dental cream
Get the Family Economy Size and save up to 1/10.
agricultural opportunities. The
Far North is going to provide
some interesting developments in
the future, and not so far away,
either. You can grow rice, tea,
jute, coffee and many other
crops that drain our resources
because they have to be
imported.
The completion of the Tinaroo
Dam will change the complexion
of the Atherton Tableland and
Mareeba districts. There won’t
be any dry spells when that’s
finished. What this will mean in
assured tobacco, grain, small
crops and dairy-production can
only be guessed, but it will be
a wonderful boost for the north.
The land’s there ; it only wants
the water. T'here’ll be more
water in Tinaroo than they’ll
know what to do with.
The season was not a good
one for wheat. While some
farmers revelled in the heavy
autumn rains and laid down
improved-pastures, the wheat-
man shook his head and tried
other crops. The decline in
acreage was around the 200,000
mark, and could lead to a
shortage of grain for the local
markets.
Linseed became very popular
overnight, and just over 100,000
acres were planted. This crop
looks as though it’s come to
stay, provided prices don’t flop.
Most of the linseed is grown on
the Darling Downs.
Barley has also become
fashionable, and much of it is
exported. The variety Prior does
very well in this State, and is
excellent for malting.
Many farmers tried their hand
at growing safflower. It’s a new
crop for this part of the world,
and last year nearly 3000 acres
were planted. Safflower is a dual-
purpose plant. It yields an oil
used in various industries, prin-
cipally paint-making, and the
meal is a good stock-feed. Un-
fortunately, the crop is subject
to damage from frosts, and some
of this area was lost because it
couldn’t take the cold.
Strategic Drenching
“8.R.”: At time of writing
there aren’t many N.S.W. reports
of bad attacks by that serious
parasite of sheep commonly
known as barber’s-pole worm,
otherwise, more correctly,
Hcemonchus contortus.
But that same worm should be
galvanising woolgrowers in the
higher-rainfall areas into action
just about now with a drenching-
programme to prevent bad
attacks later on.
A strategic drench in late
lanuary or early February can
save a lot of trouble in the
autumn, when the autumn rains
arrive, and it’s a much better
proposition to prevent trouble
than to start fighting it when it
appears.
This whole idea of strategic
drenching is based on sound
scientific knowledge of the
barber’s-pole worm—the way it
lives and breeds, the sort of
conditions it likes.
Barber’s-pole worm is a blood-
sucker. A sheep badly infested
with this worm is being drained
of blood just as surely as if it
were flowing from a wound.
The difference is that it is
bleeding on the inside from
innumerable tiny wounds, and
that the blood is going to feed
worms to carry on this race of
bloodsucking parasites.
Unfortunately, many wool-
growers don’t realise what is
going on inside. There’s no blood
in evidence to show that the
sheep is being robbed of its
vitality.
The blood-loss shows up in
other ways, not as spectacular
as an open wound, but just as
dangerous in the long run.
With this constant drain on
its system, the sheep cannot hope
to do as well as a more fortunate
sheep without a heavy burden of
worms.
How can it put on as much
weight and produce as much
wool when so much of its
productive-capacity is drained-
off by the worms?
Even on good feed it’s hard
for a sheep to feed both itself
and its worms. When feed is
poor or scarce, it’s not the worms
that suffer.
The sheep loses condition
badly. Its general health
Victims of barber’s-pole worm. Drenching at the right time can prevent sheep getting
into this condition. C.5.I.R.O. photograph.
becomes poor, and it is easy prey
for any other sort of trouble
that comes along. A sheep in a
weakened state is in no condi-
tion to fight back disease. Ewes
are in no condition to go about
the strain of carrying an extra
burden on their systems in the
way of lambs.
It’s true that the woolgrower
of today has a whole range of
drenches that are effective against
that worm, but he can’t afford to
be pouring them down the
throats of his sheep all the time.
What he wants to do is use
them when they are most
effective.
Most sheep-men know that
worm-troubles are seasonal, and
it’s perhaps understandable to
assume that the best time to
drench is when the seasonal
worm-trouble is at its height.
Many can’t see the point of
going into an expensive and
time-consuming drenching-
programme when worms aren’t
giving much trouble.
But that’s just the point! If
you wait until your sheep show
visible signs of heavy worm-
burden you’ve missed the best
time to attack the worm. Pre-
vention is much better than cure,
and that’s the basis of the early
strategic drench.
It’s all based on the life-cycle
of the worm and the seasonal
pattern of the weather —quite a
simple principle when you look
at it.
The adult worms live in the
digestive-system of the sheep,
and pour out fantastic numbers
of worms on to pastures. One
adult female worm can lay
10,000 eggs a day. If all of these
developed into larvae there
would be enough to kill five
lambs. A heavily-infested ewe
may be passing 20 million worm-
eggs each day with her drop-
pings enough to kill 10,000
lambs each day..
Multiply this by the number
of sheep in the flock and you get
an amazing number of eggs
pouring out to keep contaminat-
ing the pasture.
On these figures you might
expect pastures to end-up knee-
deep in worm-eggs ; but Nature
doesn’t let it go that far. Most
of them die —killed by cold,
dryness, and sunlight.
The worm-eggs like it warm
and wet, and so do the larvae
which hatch from them when
conditions are favorable. That’s
why autumn and spring are the
main danger-periods for the
barber’s-pole worm.
In spite of the recent wet
season, it’s really been too dry
over the last month or two for
the worms and larvae to get under
way and cause much trouble.
But when things get a bit wet
with the autumn rains, the
trouble starts. Triggered into
action by moist conditions, eggs
hatch into larvae.
These tiny creatures crawl up
blades of grass in the moist
conditions of the morning,
retreat back into the shade
during the heat of the day, and
climb up again in the evening.
There they wait for the grazing
sheep, which takes them in with
a bite of grass. They go down
into the digestive-system, grow'
to adults, and start laying eggs.
As long as there are adult
worms in the sheep, eggs will be
pouring out on the pasture.
Seasonal conditions decide how
many of these are going to
develop into larvae and get back
into sheep again.
The idea of the strategic
drench is to attack worms and
get their numbers as low as
possible, so that when sheep
enter the danger-period they
aren’t shedding very many eggs
to build-up into bad trouble.
The fewer the eggs, the less
chance of a rapid build-up of
worms, however favorable the
seasonal conditions.
The strategic drench about the
end of January, or early
February, nips the coming
autumn trouble in the bud,
which is much better than
tackling a full-scale outbreak
later on when the sheep are
already feeling the effects of the
worms, and are in worse shape
to be driven into races and
drenched.
Two things combine to bring
about a bad outbreak
a heavy burden of worm-eggs
on the pasture, and seasonal
conditions that favor their
development. *
You can’t do much about the
seasonal conditions, but you can
cut-down the number of eggs on
the pasture by killing off the
adult worms that produce them,
before the dangerous seasonal
conditions come along.
Safety with
Insecticides
“Big Billy”: Paste these rules
in your hat when using insecti-
cides.
Read the label carefully,
taking particular note of warn-
ings and precautions.
Keep the preparations out of
reach of children and pets ; if
an accidental dose is taken, get
a doctor at once.
Always keep the chemical in
its original container, and make
sure it is always sealed.
Never give any insecticide to a
neighbor in an unlabelled
container. If the pesticide is
shared, copy the warning label
from the original and attach it
to the new container.
Store in a locked shed, or on a
shelf inaccessible to children, not
exposed to extremes of heat and
cold, and away from where food
is being stored or handled.
When spraying edible plants,
minimise the amount of spray
placed on the edible parts. And
be sure these are thoroughly
washed before being eaten.
See that hands and face are
washed carefully after using any
preparation.
Don’t smoke while spraying oy
/dusting, and take care that the
chemical isn’t spilled on skin or
clothing. If this happens, wash
the affected part and change
clothing.
If using highly toxic pesticides,
wear a respirator or tie a damp
cloth over nose and mouth.
See that clothes are washed
thoroughly, in any case, after
each job.
Cover food- and water-
containers of pets and livestock
jf working in their vicinity, and
don’t spray near fishponds—wind
may carry the spray and
contaminate the water.
Don’t use the hormones in the
same type of equipment used
for the ordinary pesticides or
for fertilisers; it’s impossible to
remove all traces of the weed-
killer.
Destroy the container after
the last drop has been used.
Jetting Against
Fly-strike
“Billjim”: A. Engel, of the
Victorian Department of Agri-
culture, recommends the five-jet
nozzle because it covers a wide
area in two strokes, and says
that the equipment, which can
be connected to a tractor take-
off, gives greater pressures when
required and is about £lOO
cheaper than a separate power-
unit.
Spray - painting equipment
usually does not provide the
necessary pressure, Engel points
out, as 901 b. pressure over the
fluid drops to between 201 b. and
301 b. at the> nozzle.
Other recommendations:
work from the front to the back
of the race ; a concrete-floor in
the race, for good conditions,
besides keeping the sheep clean ;
when crutch-jetting, give each
sheep one short squirt before
beginning—the animal will then
position itself satisfactorily;
minimum pressures of 651 b. for
the crutch, 901 b. for the body ;
if the wool is long, higher
pressures may be needed.
Sheep should be “dagged,” but
not crutched, before jetting.
About six to eight weeks’ wool
gives good results.
Engel advises holding the
nozzle two to four inches away
from the wool when crutch-
jetting, combed through the wool
when body - jetting. Correct
strengths are 0.1 per cent, aldrin,
0.05 per cent, dialdrin, or 0.025
per cent, diazinon. Drained-off
fluid is of no value for re-use.
“Xsphar”: Soak corn-cobs in
kerosene and store. When wood
is wet, and it’s hard to light a
fire, use the cobs.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Bonds for Bandits
Car-stealing in Western Australia, as
elsewhere, is an increasing juvenile crime.
Last year thefts were one-third higher than
previously, and of 834 vehicles stolen
four out of five were taken by “children”
under 18 years. A while back the pro-
portion was only one in three, and with
fewer offences.
On the need for severe penalties
Western Australian authorities are in
agreement with “Shellback” (B. 5/12/’56)
and “Doynest” (B. 2/l/’57).
Under W.A. Traffic Act amendments
operating from January 14 this year,
magistrates may no longer caution con-
victed car-thieves or release them “on
bond.”
A first-offender loses his driving-licence
for a year and may get up to a year’s jail
or a £250 fine. Any later conviction is not
fineable; compulsorily, it brings im-
prisonment not exceeding two years.
Offenders are further liable for loss or
damage up to £l5O-worth ; parents or
guardians of juveniles are also responsible.
That legislation supplies bonds much
harder to shrug-off than “good-behavior”
ones. — Apemantus (W.A.).
Coal
In a modern industrial world any step
which can lead to the destruction of a
great primary industry must seem in-
credible. Yet that is what is happening in
Australia, and no power in the land seems
able to do anything about it.
In N. S. Wales we have almost unlimited
coal-measures providing some of the best
coal in the world. In no other country
can clean coal be so easily got from thick
seams mostly clear of spoil and rubbish.
Mechanisation to make the job easy is
constantly going on. Yet mines are
closing-down and threats of unemploy-
ment in the industry are becoming serious.
The cost of coal so easily got is prohibi-
tive even to gas-producers no more than
60 miles from source. We cannot sell it
to other States except in cases of
emergency, and if we cannot do that how
can we expect to develop overseas
markets?
It is a tragic fact that coalmining organi-
sations here and elsewhere in the world
have themselves done much to destroy
the mining-industry. The change to oil
in the 1920’s was in a large degree caused
by a long series of strikes in the Welsh
coalfields, and the British Navy early
realised that it could not depend on
supplies of steam-coal. Development of
Italian hydroelectric-power was accentu-
ated for the same reason, and a whole
fleet of coal-carrying tramps went out of
service in consequence—the loss of out-
ward cargo made all the difference to the
shipowner between profit and loss.
Immeasurable damage was done to the
British coai-tra4e by the strikes of the
1920’5, and not only has it never re-
covered, but the miners suffered heavily
and South Wales was among the first of
the depressed areas when the slump of the
1930’s came along.
At one time the solution would have
been easy—to produce coal a bit cheaper,
abandon the “darg,” and let men work as
hard as they liked. The solution is not so
simple today. The idea that coal is indis-
pensable is dying fast, and no trade-union
organisation can make the public use coal.
Events that happened years ago on the
coalfields shouid never have been allowed
to fashion the industrial policy of today.
We have towns left to die when the gold
ran out, and it is a tragic thought that
towns may still be left to die with millions
of tons of coal still so easy to get from
the ground.— Shellback (N.S.W.).
Standing and Staring
One of the sanest of modern poets said,
“What is life if, full of care, we have no
time to stand and stare.”
When the contribution of the British
peoples to the progress of civilisation
comes to be finally assessed, the public-
spiritedness of our citizens will get more
than an honorable mention. Our non-
spectacular devotion to public causes
seems to be one of our distinguishing-
marks. The ideal of service is deeply
ingrained in our habit of thought; it is
one of our finest ideals.
Yet what time has the public-spirited
citizen got these days to stand and stare?
What time has he got for contemplation,
for philosophic speculation, or for read-
ing? The demands on our public-spirited
have reached dizzy heights.
The once leisurely old-fashioned en-
gagement-book has become an awful
spectre to haunt the dreams of our ideal
citizens, and committee-meetings flash
past in a continuous blur. So devastat-
ingly possessive is the life we are forced
to lead that retirement becomes a death-
sentence to many who have lost the
capacity for enjoyment of leisure which
retirement should bring.
Contemplation, which used to be a
necessary part of all thinking, is now
forfeited to a trivial round of daily
engagements. In this way we are demand-
ing too much of our leaders. Prophets are
not reared on a diet of trivialities. No
generation ever stood in greater need of
prophetic moral guidance than the present
one, and I doubt if any generation has
ever had less. — Allan B. (Vic.).
Optimism—Justified or Not?
The Prime Minister’s New Year mes-
sage was optimistic—“ Given average
fortune I believe that our economic
problems will diminish in 1957 and that
the true quality of our prosperity will
become clear.” Sir Arthur Fadden’s
views were also full of confidence.
Remarking on the prosperity of the Ays-
tralian people, he cited in particular their
mounting savings and the number of cars
they owned.
There have, of course, been other such
expressions of .faith in the continued
economic well-being of Australia. For
instance, at David Jones’ annual meeting
recently, Sir Charles Lloyd Jones said
that, although there were some weak
points, Australia’s basic economy was
sound enough.
I hope all this faith and trust will be
proved correct, and I would probably
have accepted Mr. Menzies’s New Year
optimism had I not lately been reading
The Great Crash, 1929, by an American
professor of economics, J. K. Galbraith,
The professor shows that airy pro-
nouncements of a roseate future were
“ Darling , this is Mother."
being made by Government and business-
leaders in America almost up to the day
before the October 31, 1929, crash on
Wall-street. For instance, U.S. President
Coolidge (December 4, 1928) told Con-
gress America had reached “the highest
record of years of prosperity” and could
“regard the present with satisfaction and
anticipate the future with optimism.” In
September, 1929, Andrew Mellon, Secre-
tary of the Treasury, said there was no
cause to worry—“ The high tide of pros-
perity will continue.”
John D. Rockefeller and the president
of General Motors both stated, about the
same time, that business was “very sound,”
while Professor Irving Fisher, of Yale,
said “Stock prices have reached what
looks like a permanently high plateau.”
To come back to Australia today, no
one will deny that there are some
economic problems about —continued rise
in costs, the fact that some sections of
business are being hit by import-restric-
tions, the possible results of Suez (in the
way, for one thing, of higher overseas
freight-charges), and our lack of a
uniform, national wage-policy. These
will all have to be tackled, and solved.
American optimism in 1929 proves that
we can’t take prophecies of a rosy future
too much for granted.— Keima (Q.).
Steam and Diesel
Both Clem Lack and Queensland
Minister for Transport J. E. Duggan
make a Very unfair comparison between
diesel and steam in Queensland.
With its steam-engines, Queensland has
followed a “small-engine” policy. The
ClB engines of 1914 were equal to any
3ft.-6in. power in that day, but no more
powerful steam-engines (save the 30
Berger-Garratts, which are not run to
Toowoomba, and, which, having twice
the number of moving parts, have twice
the maintenance) have been built since.
The construction of the similar Cl9’s was
discontinued in 1935 (and two of these
21-year-old machines have since been
scrapped); since then, BlBi’s and Cl7’s
—both efficient engines, certainly, but
so small —have been the only steam-
engines built.
New Zealand has the 3ft.-6in. gauge,
but it has the mighty “K”-class loco-
motives, of equal power to the Queens-
land larger diesels. The tracks in
Queensland are certainly lighter, but I
cannot see why a 4-8-4 engine, with a
12-13-ton axle-load and 30,0001 b. starting
tractive-effort, could not have been
produced.
The coal burned in the southern area
of Queensland is gaseous bituminous
coal, with a high ash-content, but the
Queensland Railways have never made
any attempt to experiment with different
forms of fireboxes in an effort to improve
their engines. Neither have high boiler-
pressures been employed —the BlBi use a
pressure of only 1701 b. per square-inch.
Complaints are often made about soot.
This is also associated with coal, Blair
Athol coal giving almost entirely sootless
trips. I have heard of a goods-train
engine with this type of coal which
required firing only three times in the
106 miles between Brisbane and Gympie.
Oil-fired engines, too, are very clean, and
steam-engines can burn much cruder oil
than can diesels.
The reason for Queensland steam-
engine overhauls costing so much is that
the engines are allowed to get into such
bad condition. Since the beginning of
August, Cl 9 No. 700 has been employed
on shunting in Toowoomba yard. The
barest minimum of maintenance, other
than boiler-washouts, has been performed
on the engine, and the noise of the engine
moving, with all its loose worn parts
clanking, is a shock to one who can
remember the same engine, painted blue,
flying up the ranges between Warwick
and Wallangarra with the Sydney
Mad. If maintenance were performed
on engines as required, instead of■ o
mileage principle, I am sure tht
maintenance-charges could be reduced
Private engineering-firms could probably
do a better, cheaper job than
G Be“ Sh D°u P ir m aße S more co„>
P aris ? 9? be'tveen the 818H230 tOM) and
dlesel fclfcßltts
range, let him remember that the 818. is
* ™T by a “ y
standards, even 3tt.-6in. OHvS. _
eser'is'afa voritecry * One dasf-I road"!
j with u i tra -high boiler-pressures,
m | chanical firing and ro Her-bearings on
~ • Darts fc
Jhe loco motive has responded
- n a wa y w hich would make all its critics
look - one covered 1,620,000 miles in
1Q The «j»_ c i ass 4_B-4’s of 5000
drawbar’ horse-power have mechanical
lubricators of sufficient capacity for a
1300-mile trip, and accumulated an
average of 238,000 miles per locomotive
before stopping for classified repairs was
necessary.
These modern machines, compared
with types of 25 years ago, require 23
per cent, less coal per 1000 gross ton-
miles and cost 19-37 per cent, less to
maintain per 1,000,000 tractive-power
miles. In other words, the old-type
machine requires 50 per cent, more
maintenance to handle the same amount
of traffic. The company’s own words
are “These locomotives represent a low
initial investment, are capable of hign
utilisation, cheap to operate and main-
tain, and give an outstanding reliability
of performance.”
Let us see similar machines on Aus
tralian railways burning native coal, not
imported oil, and treat them in the same
way as the diesels.—lo 76 (Q.).
Five years ago the Queensland Minister
for Transport came back from the U.b.A.
with the announcement that the State had
to have diesel-hauled trains. Knowing
something of the ways of the diesei-
salesman, I suggested that such a decision
should not be left to any politician, mm
having regard to the importance j
Queensland of its coal-industry, snoui
only be decided by a body °
unquestioned integrity and technical an
economic competence. . •
I still insist that the suggestion is
good one apd reflects no discredit wna-
ever on anyone, but it caused Clem
to fall on me like a ton of bricks,
I not know that such a body wou
naturally be available? Did I not rea
that only a few passenger-trains were
be affected?” I didn’t and stdl doni.
Now Clem Lack tells us (B. 12/ I<4 / "Yi
that diesel-traction really has proved its


in Queensland. The proof? The unsup-
ported word of the Transport Minister,
the last person in the world who would
be expected to give an unfavorable report.
The sort of thing which the body pro-
posed could have dealt with is the tale
that by using 95 per cent, diesel-engines
between Brisbane and Toowoomba
£200,000 a year would be saved. Even if
you take the charitable view that those
figures are correct, then this body would
have pointed out that the only thing
proved was that if you took off some 40-
year-old equipment and replaced it with
modern units costing possibly twenty
times as much, you would get a better
or cheaper service—which is not very
startling.
What has not been proved is that the
job could not have been done cheaper
by using modern coal-burning equipment.
In that area of coalmines it is quite likely
it could have been, but nobody has any
interest in proving that.
I don’t expect anything I say to
influence matters one way or another.
Our railways are going to be dieselised,
not because of any particular virtue in
the diesel, but because the, diesel-salesmen
(and the oil-men) are highly competent
and have really no opposition.
In 1940 I travelled south from Cairns
to Brisbane,. the train being reasonable
but very slow. The important thing was
that the entire operation was a domestic
one of extreme simplicity, locally-built
locomotives burning local coal. Today,
the operation of this train which so
pleases Clem Lack has become infernally
complex, involving imported locomotives,
imported fuel, foreign exchange and
dollars.
The result to the passenger? On a
42-hour journey he actually leaves two
hours later. Even that is better than the
Melbourne-Perth service, now fully
dieselised and the subject of most
intensive ballyhoo. Compared with my
trip in 1940 the journey is now longer,
much less convenient and involves one
more change of trains. Yet it is apparently
considered almost indecent to say so. —
Transporticus (Singapore).
Training for Motorists
Sorry, but the “Hendon system” (B.
26/12/’56) does not apply to any
appreciable extent. Those London police
were having too many accidents.
Authority was worried but unwilling to
clamp down hard. It adopted the system
so that the police would have no excuse
for further accidents.
Having provided the training, authority
could say “no more accidents or else.”
The police, being a disciplined body and
subject to departmental action, achieved
a greatly reduced accident-rate. It was
the discipline and the inferred penalties
rather than the training that made the
difference. Anyway, a training that is
fairly effective with a disciplined force
is not necessarily of any use with the
average and undisciplined driver.
Most drivers are undisciplined if only
because most drivers get, to varying
extents, that feeling of power and import-
ance and exhilaration which is the
psychological basis of most accidents.
This feeling is backed-up by the immense
amount of propaganda the motor-interests
maintain. It will take a tremendous
amount of costly training and teaching to
counteract that propaganda.
We have already spent too much time
and money on sustained road-safety
publicity and teaching, and the effective
results are negligible. Accidents are as
many as ever. There is no single complete
solution to any behavior-problem,
whether of dangerous drivers, delinquent-
children or what-have-you, but quite
simple legislation can substantially solve
the problems of road-safety.
The Governor of Connecticut (U.S.A.)
has proved that, and right now an
allegedly “tough” magistrate in Too-
woomba (Q.) is demonstrating it—
Toowoomba is getting the name of a
fairly safe city.
Demands for better roads, more driver-
training, etc., are merely “passing the
buck.” Suspension or loss of licence is
effective and, incidentally, cheap and just.
—T. K. 11l (Q.).
Insincerity in Government
The insincerity of the present
N- S. Wales Government was never better
exemplified than in the new land-tax
legislation and in the payment of compen-
sation for injurious affection arising out
of the Cumberland town - planning
scheme.
In the first instance the Premier assured
owners of property that would be subject
to his land-tax that the tax could be
"Have a heart! You’re the twenty-third sixteen-stoner who’s
stood on my feet today!”
passed on to tenants where the property
concerned was used for business or
commercial purposes. In fact, the Land
Tax Management Act contains a clause
purporting to amend the Landlord and
Tenant Act to provide for the passing-
on of the tax through the fair-rents
boards. The catch is, however, that the
Act provides for the passing-on of such
tax as would be payable were the land
concerned the only land in the possession
of the owner. This means that owners
will not be in a position to pass on the
whole of the tax even if they are able to
pass on any part of it.
The tax is levied on a rising scale on
the cumulative value‘of all lands held by
an owner where the unimproved value
exceeds £5OOO. Land worth £4OOO would
not be taxable. However, an owner of,
say, five blocks each worth £4OOO, would
pay tax on a total of £20,000, but cannot
pass on one'penny of it, because of the
wording of the law. Even were he the
owner of four blocks worth £5OOO each,
he would be able to pass on only a
fraction of the tax payable, because the
rate of tax on £5OOO is very much less
than that on £20,000.
In the second instance, after many
years of assurances by the Premier and
by the chairman of the Cumberland
County Council as to payment of
compensation for injurious affection
under the plan, a judgment now makes
it very clear that the question of compen-
sation is not one concerning the amount
an owner is entitled to, but as to whether
he is entitled to any at all. It appears
that in the very great majority of cases
owners will not be entitled to any compen-
sation. Moreover, the chairman of the
C.C.C. has said he knew all along that
this was so —in fact, the legislation
was drafted that way because town-
planning would not be practical were
Governments liable to pay compensation
to persons injured by their plans.
The position is, then, that after years
of prevarication in which property-owners
have been encouraged to submit claims
and in which those claims have been
criticised by the chairman on the
ground that they were excessive, it
•appears that, notwithstanding the genuine-
ness or otherwise of these claims, the
majority of them have no standing in
law.
Many months ago the Premier made a
public statement to the effect that owners
of property affected by road-widening
and road-construction schemes would be
compensated when their land was
required of them. He could have made it
plain at that time that only certain —
and limited—classes of claims would be
valid as a result of other zoning effects.
No such statements were made, however,
doubtless because it would not have been
politic to do so. It was expedient to lead
the people up the garden-path.
No wonder a responsible Minister has
cause to complain that in spite of legisla-
tion freeing certain classes of property
from ■ rent-control, investors will not
re-enter the field of investment in rental
dwelling-property! — Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Oil and World Events
There is a very general belief —possibly
a well-justified one—that conflicting oil-
interests have been responsible for a good
many of this world’s troubles, past and
present. Most of us feel that if this is
the case there isn’t much we can do about
it, however much we may dislike the
intrusion of Big Business into national
and international affairs. My interest is
on the lower plane of what has been hap-
pening in Australia since the Middle East
crisis made petrol and its price topical
issues.
The initial announcements were that, in
spite of petrol-rationing in Britain and
higher prices in New Zealand, stocks in
Australia would be sufficient to prevent
any shortage, and that prices would not
be raised. Then we had hints that prices
would have to be increased, if only tem-
porarily, followed by an indignant state-
ment by National Development Minister,
Senator Spooner.
In this the Minister repeated that the
companies had large stocks, and firm
contracts for the carriage of a substantial
proportion of their needs for some time
to come. He declared that speculative
transactions —not increase of working-
costs —had raised the freight-rates. He
concluded that it was for the State autho-
rities to decide, in the light of these facts,
whether a petrol-price increase was
justified.
That was a shrewd move, economically
and politically. It put the onus hard on
the companies to prove that an early
increase was justified, it absolved the
Federal Government of any desire to
pander to any oil company, and it showed
that the States, including the Labor
States, would have to face the re-
sponsibilities involved, which included
some major aspects of the national
economy.
The petrol-using public will await
developments with a great deal of interest,
including the views of the oil companies
which in the last few years have been
putting down refineries in Australia and
professing a great deal of zeal for the
national welfare. — In the ACT (A.C.T.).
Perth Transport
One part of Perth’s transport-problem
(B. 19/12/’56) is being well cared for by
a rejuvenated suburban railway-system.
New stations have been built and old
ones painted in brighter colors. As well
as more diesel-engines, the W.A.G.R.
has provided more comfortable coaches.
They have speeded-up the timetables so
that on some lines it is quicker to travel by
train than by privately owned bus.
What’s more, the traveller receives
courteous service. Arriving at Cottesloe
station recently, weighted down with
luggage, I was looking for a taxi when the
S.M. spotted me. He immediately rang
for a taxi and made sure that it arrived
promptly.
Incidents like that are noted by the
public and their appreciation is shown by
the 75 per cent, increase in the use of the
suburban rail-service during 1955-56. I
believe some lines even show a profit.—
L. R. M. (W.A.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 419
Across
I—The1 —The hundred goes to 150 where
swallows like to build cuts. (7)
4 —German poet swallows 1050 of
interest to Dior? (3-4)
B—Musical work concealed cricketer
Graig like a snake. (8)
10 —Expresses exercises. (6)
12 — A kind of plant barker with a
letter named both first and last.
(7)
13 — You shorten the postscript egg
in eruption. (7)
14 — Oval refers to this batting failure.
(3)
16 — Rank is after the smallest part
for John Greenleaf. (8)
17— Fall to the pianissimo French
article. (6)
19—Bag one in South Carolina. (3)
21—A famous Melbourne publish-
ing enterprise is a frost?—but it
happened a long time ago. (3-3)
23—Thing holds you and the Doctor
of Divinity for thumping. (8)
25 L’oeuf constellation? (3)
26 Restraint on trade makes them
ban leave. (7)
28—Way to drop a boy’s relatives
of griffins and dragons. (7)
30— Her oil, if mixed, is closer to
perfection. (6)
31 — Booze in the dove-call train.
(4-4)
32 The first rip spoilt a girl. (7)
33 West gets his by highly con-
fidential talk. (7)
Down
1 — Spice cut a good deal more than
40-love. (5)
2 East scolded a baseball team like
a hedgehog. (9)
3 Playwright seem to turn up with
Indians. (8)
5 Moor is. replacing the O.C. of
Morocco. (7)
6 Colder chemical firm associated
with the Queen. (5)
7 Food from gage-trees. (6, 3)
9 —Advice to the owner of an undug
garden. (5)
11 —Pull the ear. (3)
15 — King George swallowed a grill. (5)
16 — Henry I’s only son went down in
this Caucasian’s joint. (5, 4)
18—Before some shipping office in
a monastery? (9)
20 —Celestial double providing dog-
pickles. (4-4)
22 —Manager berating too much for
the flower within it. (7)
24 —Miss Gardner comes in to do a
Philippine port. (5)
25 —Timber journal. (3)
27 —Unwelcome visitor to the china-
shop and I give a popular N.S.W.
viewpoint. (5)
29 —Horse is disturbed by the farrier.
(5) '
Solution to Crossword No. 418


m
mi
:■:> ■
:
w-'i
km
'■mm
*«WBfc
a %ms?m
■
*> ::
mmm
P§|:||
I
m. i-mm
wmmm
m
■
s&sa
MM
Wt
zm.
iflii
SR
111111 l
1
mm
sr
omes and
s went up in si
® • •
I feel sort of detached standing here looking at this
mess. My house has just gone up in smoke. Your
dream house too probably and the dream houses
of about 1,000 other Australians. That fire destroyed
a fine forest and a thousand dreams. The timber, all
ready for the saw mill, was needed to build houses
for you and me. Now it’s a charred carpet.
I’m a forestry man and know just what that fire
meant. Industry and home builders needed that timber.
We reckoned there was 4 million super feet ready there
enough to build at least 1,000 houses. We tried
hard to save that forest but didn’t have much of a
chance. We’d probably have done it if we’d been able
to get to the seat of the fire. But there was no road
through, not even a basic access road cut by a diesel
tractor and bulldozer.
A basic access road carved through the bush be-
comes a three-fold economic investment it’s a
firebreak, it opens up paying timber stands, it preserves
natural resources. Help your forestry authorities by
supporting every worthwhile move for bush-fire pro-
tection. And do be careful of fire this summer.
CATERPILLAR
c
AND CAT ARB
REGISTERED TRADE MARKS OF
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO., U.S.A.
When you think of
natural resources, think of
the big yellow machines
that help protect them.
!CTORIA :
O F
P T Y
L T
EI.BO U R W F
CATERPILLAR
AUSTRALIA
