

The Bulletin
The Goldless Golden City —page 32
Wednesday, September 3, 19S8
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered In Australia for transmission by post as n newspaper.
" Hey! THAT lane's not open yet!"


LEARN
STORY WRITING
AT HOME
It’s a fascinatin'! study ami many students
pay for the Course before completing it.
There is always a great demand for Well-
Written Short Stories, Articles, Written Sketches.
Radio Talks, Pars. Note these extracts from
students’ letters!
“During the past six months my Acceptances
have returned me over £200.”
“I am pleased to report further Successes since
Les. 10. This makes £u3 in hand with more
to come.”
“I list hereunder my Acceptances to the
amount of £lOO/10/9.”
“My earnings from my Writing total almost
£70.”
Write for Free Prospectus today.
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereaffh
St.. Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., lirisbane;
21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St.
Perth.
CVT AXD MAIL THIS COUPON* —<
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (S.B. 1758)
UOOKHUNTER, Box: 2671, G.P.0., Sydney-
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—Action,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
£.4
BOOKS BOUGHT
AVe visit you in tlie City and Suburbs
Immediate Cash Payment
Valuations made for Probate
BW 7874
(After Hours JY 1131)
BERKELOUW
114 King Street, (Between Pitt and
Castlereagh Streets), Sydney.
The Red Page
A PRIZE NOVEL
Quiet excellence is so rare to Aus-
tralian writing, where success is likely
to roar itself to notice in slang, with
a violence of humor or tragedy or
murder, that the “Sydney Morning
Herald” prizewinning novel, The Sunlit
Plain, by H. D. Williamson (Angus
and Robertson), seems to challenge the
reader who has been absorbed in it
to say why.
It is about that worn old subject, the
outback; and its special interest is the
old occupation of trapping, while an
important part of this theme is a sub-
ject so dear to Australian writers, and
worn so threadbare —the dealing in
illicit possum-skins—that hardly a week
goes by at the “Bulletin” but a story
on it is shot on sight, back to its author.
Then, again, the hero comes running
into the book at the age of eight, to
explain that his mother and father have
been drowned crossing the river—he is
a type to be found on the “Bulletin's”
black-list as a Prohibited Orphan;
while the family living in a shanty near
the river also figure in the aforesaid
list as Hatters —i.e., persons, generally
ancient, living outside the community
by scrounging. Well, this family of boy,
girl and mother, and father who aban-
dons them as the orphan is adopted by
them, may not be quite hatters, but near
enough.
One understands that W'illiamson is
a businessman, and it is certainly with
the instinct of a skilled manager that
he takes this impossible pitch, corres-
ponding in the novel-trade to a bank-
rupt grocery in a slum, and begins to
reorganise it. Taking charge when the
orphan has grown to twenty, the boy
of the family a huge and handsome
boozer, the girl a barmaid in love with
the young cop, and the mother a
weary drudge who knows her only hope
is the orphan she has reared, William-
son decides that the orphan has the
makings of a businessman.
The characterisation of this young
man is admirable; expressionless, trust-
ing no one, remembering the few who
have been kind to him, so sensible of
obligations the world has not kept to
him that he worries when his adoptive
brother fails to keep his obligations to
a barmaid he has seduced, and, above
all, mindful that he must make his own
opportunities, he makes himself so use-
ful to the town skin-buyer who has
refused to employ him that the buyer
finds it convenient to acknowledge his
signature for skins bought during his
absence.
Thus the orphan (and also the reader)
learns the skin-trade; how to manipu-
late the scales so that the bits of old
iron and bags of sand with which
trappers load their bales of skins may
be accepted and the trappers not
insulted. He graduates to taking the
truck out to buy skins from trappers
in the field, sees the weary life of
expert trappers, meets illicit possum-
poisoners; and then, on his own initia-
tive, goes out to a pub, miles from
anywhere, and establishes a weekly
market.
Here he also meets the publican’s
daughter, and to smash the affair the
publican’s wife imports another skin-
buyer from Coonamble—the unex-
pected appearance of competition is
handled with a rightness which again
shows that an experienced businessman
is in charge. The deal by which, one
hand holding the money presented in
payment, the other signing the legal
documents, the decrepit dealer sells his
skin-business to the orphan, and the
final bargain by which the orphan,
keeping control of the business, uses it
to take over the pub from the innkeeper,
whose daughter he is to marry, have
the sure touch of the man who knows.
A good businessman in the novel-
trade knows that you can’t run a novel
on just the one line of goods, so a
number of subsidiary lines are intro-
duced: the hulking brother’s varying
fortunes with his beautiful barmaid and
the grocer’s daughter who almost gets
him on the rebound; the barmaid’s
champion against both the brother and
the usurpers; Hattie the fat cook, a
very well-drawn character. Of all the
incidental persons the most colorful is
the travelling showman with his imita-
tion cowboyisms, a superb picture of
a human bull trying to force the sister
of the orphan’s family away from her
quiet young policeman, riding his horse
into a bar when the manager tries to
bring him to heel . . .
The story proceeds with economy,
each part advancing with such a mount-
ing of interest that one begins to expect
that all sections of it will at last come
together and go off with a bang. But,
of course, a businessman knows that
bargain-sales are not the real life of a
business: trade must be maintained in
spite of them. And so the showman
is not killed by the girl’s hulking
brother, or her policeman, or the hero,
but by his own rouseabout. The police-
man doesn’t discover where the hero
hides his illicit skins, but marries the
girl and goes off to worry illdoers else-
where; and the hulking brother, having
been discarded by the grocer’s daughter
and divorced by the barmaid, is not
allowed to drink himself to death —he
is taken back, still a drunkard, by his
loving barmaid.
The total effect is reminiscent of the
classic novel of Sydney life, Louis
Stone’s “Jonah.” In the one you had
a schoolmaster worrying over his class
and seeing that at least one couple
make a good showing; in Williamson's
book it is a businessman bringing
another young man and his girl to
success in a little town he knows as
well as Stone knew his Sydney. Stone’s
businessman, who was at first to have
been his hero, was abandoned midway
for his offsider; Williamson is more
consistent there; but Stone lost his heart
to Pinkey, and in his chapter “Mrs.
Partridge Lends a Hand” rose to
heights of artistry Williamson may
never reach. Nevertheless, here is a
book a satisfied user can recommend.
Roses
It would be difficult to imagine a
better book on roses than Roses, by
F. Fairbrother, a Penguin handbook
prepared in collaboration and conjunc-
tion with that august body, the Royal
Horticultural Society in England. The
author has something a lot of rosarians
haven’t got—-the imagination to see his
(Continued on page 58)


j
Phone 80951. Box 2712, C.P.O. Sydney
We repair anything electrical
■ RIIB" HIIIBB
Don’t take risks! If you have any electrical repairs in your home,
simply write to or phone the Electrical Repair Section. We will
call at your home and pick up the faulty appliance, give you a quote
on the repairs and return the article in perfect order. Modern equipment
and skilled workmen carry out repairs and overhauling of every
description, speedily, efficiently, economically. We repair all electrical
appliances, vacuum cleaners, irons, toasters, radios, etc.
• Vacuum Cleaners
*
• Toasters
• Irons
• Radios
• Polishers
• Refrigerators
• Washing Machines
• Electric Frypans
•TW
i
O
//« /
/ #
£5
wP
v<l
; 4<
uO
( 'I
■ -,>•s
M
zm
a
o
fi ..
%\
c*
£
€€
i. Vi m
•i ill!
FOR REPAIRS WRITE TO BOX 2712, C.P.O. SYDNEY, OR 'PHONE 80951.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Sept. 3, 1958
Vol. 79—No. 4099
The National Australian Newspap-er
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westraua: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
JNew Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.y, Wellington.
VOCAL PRESSURE-GROUPS
nrHE protest of Professor Anderson.
-*■ Challis Professor of Philosophy at
Sydney University, against the tendency
of universities to become institutions
solely turning-out people for the pro-
fessions has substance, but it is a pity
that somebody doesn’t raise a cry of
protest also against the growing
tendency of university-professors to
devote their lives not to the promotion
of scholarship but to the running of
the world in all its phases.
Most professors of subjects which
involve scholarship are inclined to be
lacking in everyday wisdom, and there
was a time when nobody would have
taken any of them seriously save when
engaged in propounding ideas rele-
vant to their own specialities.
Now. however, thanks largely to the
press and radio-stations in search of
commentators, they have tended to
become almost a new type of pressure-
group. authorities on everything under
the sun, and seem prepared to dictate
the morals of the community and par-
ticularly the standards by which they
themselves should be judged, apparently
on bases quite different from those
which govern the lives of ordinary
people.
X3ROBABLY the press does not take
- 1 them much more seriously than
other people do, but it has created a
sort of hunting-pack of professors
whose voices can be heard airing their
views every time some morning-paper
to whose stable they are attached wants
to hear them.
It has apparently become an axiom
that on any subject which affects free-
dom of thought or social development
in the life of the community a pro-
fessor can be relied upon to say
something sufficiently fantastic or con-
troversial to justify a good fat head-
line.
And no opportunity is lost in
capitalising this characteristic so that
almost every week one of the team
may be heard shocking the public mind
with resounding pronouncements on
the worthiness of slang; the wickedness
of institutionalism at universities; the
imminence of the end of the world
through the H-bomb; the impudence
of mere persons who are not academics
and who dare to dictate what shall be
taught at universities; or about how
“academics” should be free and
untrammelled to do what work they
like and order their lives and morals as
they Jike on about £3500 a year salary
and a sabbatical year every five or so
to enable them to wander the world
and revive their energies.
The danger is that the “academic
view” is beginning to create slogans
in which a mere label is supposed
to confer, by its own utterance, an
irrefutable truth and an implication of
either supreme merit or sinister import.
The very labels “imperialism” or
“colonialism,” for instance, when
pasted on to some person, country or
cause, imply bottomless evil, while the
attachment of the word “academic”
to an opinion or point of view seems
to be held by the members of the team
which the daily press keeps in harness
to bear inevitably the imprimatur of
Minerva, the Goddess of Wisdom.
The newspapers campaigning for a
new inquiry into the Orr case with the
aid of a large pressure-group, consist-
ing of a spearhead of self-styled
academics backed by gatherings of
impressionable youngsters passing reso-
lutions at the drop of a hat, are giving
a hearing almost exclusively to one side.
TX/HILE, for instance, the voices of
professors and churchmen are pro-
vided with a microphone to amplify the
expression of their demands into a
nation-heard noise, no attention has
been given to the small, somewhat
sarcastic voices of. say, Messrs. J. R.
Kerr. Q.C., and J. H. Wootten, pos-
sessors of two of the best analytical
legal minds in the Commonwealth, who
were briefed by the Australian Associa-
tion of Cultural Freedom to examine
the new evidence produced by Pro-
fessor Orr.
These investigators, backed by an
organisation of which the chairman is
Sir John Latham and which itself
includes on its executive persons who
might claim equally with the pro-
tagonists of Professor Orr to be
academics—Professors Sir John Kerr
Grant, of Adelaide, and Spann, of
Sydney University, and others—are just
as worthy of a hearing as those on the
other side.
They say that “in our view nothing
that has been brought forward to
date provides justification for such
a special ■ inquiry,” and that they
have found on the new matter brought
forward only a “case containing a
mass of misstatements, misconceptions
and misrepresentations both of law
and fact, and of unjust accusations and
criticisms sought to be foisted on a
public opinion which has no access to
information necessary to check and
test it.” But their findings have not
received an airing from the press. It
would be unkind to believe that this
could be due to the fact that it might
inhibit a public inquiry which would
be juicy with talk of sex and scandal
and a great producer of paper-sales.
X HE good of the public soul is
ministered to by regular doses of
opinion on topics of current interest
served-up by press and radio through
the modem equivalent of the puppets
of the marionette-show of old. Secre-
taries of pressure-groups called associa-
tions, professors, the new hierarchy of
doctors of philosophy, holders of a
hybrid degree imported from the con-
tinent of Europe to provide a sort of
0.8. E. in the world of scholarship, the
plain and fancy busybody who has the
faculty for saying things outrageously
or arrestingly, are all now vigorously
used to forward specific views. They
are consulted every time a Budget is
brought-down, each team according to
the view which the press or radio-
manager wishes to popularise: depend-
able fellows who can be relied on to
give tongue in the proper tone of voice
and following exactly the right line
like a hound on a herring-scent.
In process of being made use of, these
forwarders of causes and promoters of
interests are built-up into something
they intrinsically are not. Yet they,
become the individuals whom Crown
and public authorities recognise, who
are the recipients of invitations to talk,
to eat and drink at public expense and
to bask in the presence of Royalty and
the great.
They are not a new phenomenon.
Ancient Rome and Stuart England
knew their kind, but in the modern
world they are far more influential
than they were in the ancient and
twilight-medieval ages because of their
new facilities for communication and
because they have become the gramo-
phone-horns of more powerful and
interested groups and organs of public
opinion than the world has ever known.
pressure-group has become an
almost universal phenomenon in free
Western communities; an unhealthy
manifestation of group-power. And
its agents have become a recognised
class devoting itself to the presentation
of one side of a case only: the case of
the pressure-group concerned. The
professor-commentator, whatever his
line, has become almost as vocal an
influence.


"PROSPERITY LOADING"!


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Police and Justice
The attack by Mrs. Gertrude Melville,
M.L.C., on the N.S.W. police came as
a windfall to the sensational Sydney
dailies.
Mrs. Melville is a pillar of the Labor
party. She is 73 years old, and her
accusations were forthright and in some
cases specific.
She said that she knew personally of
the case of “a quiet, sober man, with a
young wife and family, who in the view
of those familiar with the circumstances
of his death, was murdered by the police.”
Circumstantial details of this case were
given by herself and supplemented (with
the aid of questioning by the press) by
others.
She cited several other cases, including
some concerned with charges of perver-
sion in public conveniences about which
there has been public unease for a very
long time. She later'included her own
son among the alleged victims of police
brutality.
She further made attacks oh the
impartiality of some magistrates in
assessing police evidence and criticised
the method of appointing stipendiaries
from the ranks of the public service, in
which they have grown-up with police
and police-prosecutors on terms of
intimacy.
It is very easy to criticise the police,
and always easy to obtain charges against
them. And charges certainly came in
an avalanche as soon as publicity had
been given to Mrs. Melville's statement.
Brutal ill-treatment of prisoners, callous
treatment of a badly injured man who
had broken his leg but who was charged
with drunkenness (when he said he was
perfectly sober) and delay in securing
medical attention for him, the collection
of rake-offs in the traffic department,
framing of charges against the innocent,
ruffianly behavior to prisoners in cells—
in fact, almost everything that could be
alleged against the constabulary was
alleged and printed.
The charges are so widespread and
embracing that they demand more than
the half-contemptuous treatment which
they have received from the Premier and
Mr. Downing, the responsible Ministers,
especially as in the background is the
knowledge of the great public unease
about the whole system of criminal justice
as administered under the present Govern-
ment.
If there are even a small proportion
of the N. S. Wales police who are doing
the things which they are alleged to be
doing by those whose charges have been
printed this week the responsibility must
lie right at the top. For it seems impos-
sible to believe that the abuses which
have been charged could be as widespread
as they are without their having been
brought forcibly to the knowledge of
Ministers through members of Parlia-
ment and others. Indeed, there is con-
siderable evidence that many charges
have been brought to notice.
On the other hand, anybody who has
regular contact with the force is apt to be
struck with the excellent types of young
men who figure as its servants and at the
seemingly improved standards of
courtesy and service noticeable in the
post-war years. It is easy to believe that
if there are rotters in the force, a
very large section is far from rotten and
has tried to do its best to clean
matters up.
Whatever the truth, it should be
brought out but not by trial by sensa-
tional newspapers. The judgment should
be given after searching inquiry in a cold
judicial atmosphere. And until it is given
the public attitude might well be governed
by the salutary British rule of justice
and fair play that a man or a force- is
innocent till proved guilty.
The charges which Mrs. Melville and
others have made cannot be ignored even
by so insensitive Ministers as Mr. Cahill
and Mr. Downing. And in its wider
implications the whole system of police
and magisterial justice seems due for a
searching inquiry.
Better J.P.s?
Stricter requirements announced in
Victoria for the appointment of J.P.s will
remove one of the burdens of M.P.s —
requests to recommend as justices
popular, likeable but unsuitable local
characters—and Attorney-General Rylah
seems to have the approval of all parties.
Whether the new requirements have
been sprung on citizens from a high
motive of upholding or raising the stan-
dard of the man on whom the title will
be bestowed, or whether it is a depart-
mental move the reason for which will
become apparent later, is conjectural.
It may be an exaggeration to claim
that Rylah is under the* thumb of both
of his departments, the Attorney-
General's and the Chief Secretary’s, but
he is certainly responsive to depart-
mental prodding, and Victorian Liberals
have not forgotten his cry of pain at the
last Liberal conference, when it was pro-
posed to give citizens the right of appeal
against fines of less than £5. He claimed
there would not be enough courts or
judges to hear the appeals. Every
independent legal authority denied this
excuse.
The new J.P. requirements include good
character and freedom from convictions,
current and past interest in public affairs,
and readiness to attend courts of petty-
sessions regularly, and ability to act in a
judicial capacity.
There are more than 5000 honorary
justices in Victoria, 35 stipendiary magis-
trates and 227 suburban and provincial
courts. On J.P.s’ “ability to act in a
judicial capacity” Frank Galbally, a
leading Melbourne barrister who appears
frequently in the lower courts,
summed-up:
Some J.P.s are not fit to keep a seat
warm; some are stone-deaf; some are
under the thumb of the police; some are
on the Bench merely to represent the police
adequately; some have not a due about
the law.
In middle-class suburbs, such as Cam-
berwell and Hawthoro, and, no doubt, in
similar suburbs in every capital where
there are high percentages of retired men,
there is a scramble to get on the Bench.
It is difficult to get J.P.s to sit in the
industrial districts where the courts are
dispiriting and where decisions must
sometimes be made in harrowing cases.
Justices’ decisions are inclined to follow
police evidence too trustingly, and
barristers and solicitors usually prefer
their cases to be tried by magistrates.
•It has always been required that the
aspiring J.P. should have good character
and freedom from convictions, and this
has been stated as a “new” requirement
probably to re-emphasise it. In recent
months in Melbourne one M.P. was asked
to nominate a big local s.-p. merchant,
who is, of course, rich, who is strictly
honorable in his transactions and conse-
quently esteemed, but who had, to the
relief of the M.P., one conviction for
illegal betting.
Bishops and White Australia
The White Australia policy has been
under-fire again. Not small-arms stuff,
either. A broadside from the big guns
of the Anglican church.
That is perhaps putting it a little too
strongly. The broadside, which emanated
from tjie Lambeth Conference, wasn’t
aimed specifically at Australia, but as this
country lay in the general target-area of
the fire-plan, the bishops apparently
thought it only fair that it should cop a
few rounds.
The attack came under the heading of
“Conflicts Within Nations,” and was
worded:
Whereas Australia is without racial con-
flicts, it is included here since strong
criticism of its unwillingness to accept non-
white migrants is made in some quarters.
W'hile it is natural that a young nation may
feel justified in maintaining her high stan-
dard of living and safeguarding against the
possibility of racial conflict, the committee
believes that the present unwillingness to
receive non-white migrants should, as soon
as possible, be modified in order to allow
for the controlled entry of members of any
race or nation.
The Lambeth Conference was attended
by 310 Anglican bishops from 46 coun-
tries. Many of the bishops represented
Asian and African countries, and it would
have been surprising if no mention had
been made of Australia’s immigration
policy, especially as in the weeks before
the conference several Australian church-
men of various denominations had
spoken in favor of a quota-system for
Asians. The resolution quoted was not
discussed by the full conference but by a
committee of 42, which, according to the
Bishop of Ballarat, included 15 American
bishops, six English, seven from Africa
(including the chairman) and two from
New Zealand. There were no Australian
bishops on the committee, although there
were 19 at the conference.
Dr. Malcolm Mackay, of Scots Church,
Sydney, has been quoted as saying that
the attitude of the conference in dis-
cussing the White Australia policy was
impertinent. This is certainly a mistaken


view. The conference, as a gathering of
Christian bishops, had a perfect right to
express its opinion on that or any other
matter which it felt was in conflict with
Christian teaching or conscience. This
country cannot expect its policies to be
above criticism, and there is no need to
get hot under the collar —clerical or
otherwise —when criticism is offered.
The White Australia policy is one issue
on which Government and Opposition
parties in Australia are in complete agree-
ment. We want to be friends with Asian,
African and all other races, but we feel
that international friendship can be better
sustained by keeping the possibility of
racial friction inside Australia to a
minimum.
The Lambeth resolution really contains
its own answer. “Whereas Australia is
without racial conflict,” it begins. Advo-
cates of a quota assume that we could
build-up an Asian (and African) element
in our population and remain free of
racial conflict.
Perhaps we could, but it’s an assump-
tion we can’t afford to make, since if it
turned out to be wrong it would be too
late to do anything about it. Australia
is “without racial conflict.” Let’s keep
it that way.
International Paresdojces
To a man from Mars or a dog in a
satellite the world scene must just now
look very much like an opera by Verdi
in which love-scenes are mingled with
suicide and the most violent hates with
the most mawkish and impractical
sentiments.
Peking now holds the centre of the
limelight, Nasser having been reduced
to the issue of postage-stamps to draw
attention to the decisive manner in which
his bold janisseries threw the British and
French tyrants out of Port Said —which
they had captured in a mere 160 hours
after their landing, their occupation in
that period being for all practical pur-
poses almost equivalent to the conquest
of the entire country.
Peking is declaring that it intends to
retake Formosa, which it designates as
a “natural part” of China, historically
and geographically. It has only been
prevented from blowing to bits two of
the outpost islands of Chiang Kai-shek’s
constricted empire, which lie about as far
off Amoy on the mainland as Clark
Island does off George Street, Sydney,
by the intervention of a typhoon.
Moscow has been muttering audibly
that anybody who interferes with Com-
munist China in the exercise of its
aggressions also interferes with the
U.S.S.R. and had better look out —or else.
But this has not deterred the United
States from hurriedly building-up the
power of the Seventh Fleet into a monster
threat to the Chinese if they attempt an
invasion. Nor has it prevented the South
Korean Government, which' is appa-
rently a whale for trouble, from offering
military aid to the Nationalist Chinese.
There seems little doubt but that the
Kremlin would like the United States
and China to get at each other’s throats.
That course would certainly antagonise
the Indians and feed the fears of the,
Arabs afresh and also weaken the power
of the U.S. in the Mediterranean while
the shindy was in being.
It would, too, weaken the power of
the Chinese, who are growing a bit too
big for the Russians’ liking. Perhaps
Moscow would like a repetition of the
pattern of 1939-41 during which two
major Powers were in a clash, enabling
it to share in the spoils of both.
The Gilbertian side of the business is
that while the West is compelled to
keep-up powerful strategic reserves
wherever Russia can reach with a bear-
claw —including Malaya, whither the
heart of Australia’s fighter defence is
about to join the Western forces —the
great Powers are politely congratulating
each other on mutual willingness to dis-
cuss cessation of nuclear weapon-tests,
though nobody seems to be raising the
more vital issue of the destruction of
existing nuclear weapons. The major
ones represent a formidable stock, and
the minor ones are incalculable and
uncheckable by any known means.
Furthermore, an additional “Atoms for
Peace Conference” is about to be held
at Athens, where everything the West
knows about harnessing H-power for
industrial purposes is apparently to be
handed over handsomely to the Russians,
while, as in the Geophysical Year
operations, Russia withholds anything
that it feels the rest haven’t got.
A couple of major American scientists
are warning that the Ice Age may return
within a couple of hundred years to
destroy all the atom-bomb contenders
who cannot get away to the Antarctic,
Australia, South America and South
Africa in time, yet the Soviet Union is
proposing a sort of magnified Snowy
River enterprise to put a large dam across
the Behring Straits and send the Gulf
Stream into the Arctic as a world pro-
ject in order to make Siberia as
salubrious as Sydney and the British and
New York climates fit for lions and
cobras.
Undoubtedly the dogs which went up
279 miles in the latest Soviet satellite
must have laughed a hoarse canine laugh
if they were able to see all the incon-
gruities of the world situation from their
extreme elevation.
As $ Babe in Arms
The revelations of some of the inner-
secret documents of the A.L.P. Federal
Executive during the meetings at which
it dealt with the unity-ticket question
are pathetic as they affect the body which
calls itself the “Opposition” in the Com-
monwealth Parliament.
The statement has been circulated —
and not as yet denied —that when it
discussed. the matter the executive had
before it a report by the Federal presi-
dent, the vice-presidents and the general
secretary who submitted a recommenda-
tion that, having regard to the
“ideological war” going on between the
Communists and the D.L.P. in some
unions “this executive calls upon A.L.P.
members in the unions concerned to
stand as A.L.P. candidates in complete
opposition to the forces of the extreme
Left and the extreme Right.”
The Solomon-like recommendation
would, if carried out, be futile, since
the chance of anybody getting into
office in a Communist-run union while
standing in “complete opposition to the
extreme Left” would be about the same
as that of a caterpillar trying to crawl
through a blast-fumace.
The executive decided it would be
enough to adjure good Labor candidates
“to preserve the integrity of the A.L.P.
against continued attacks from all non-
Labor forces,” this not stressing, of
course, the fact that the Communists
profess to be, and are, treated by Trades
and Labor Councils as part of “Labor
forces.”
It is regarded as legitimate for a Com-
munist to stand and assume office in
the unions affected. But a Liberal would
not merely have no chance of standing ;
he would actually endanger his liveli-
hood merely by admitting his allegiance
to the Liberal party.
Presumably because of the imminence
of the Federal elections and the attacks
made by Mr. Killen on unity-tickets, the
officers felt it incumbent on them to
exculpate Dr. Evatt and the Federal
Opposition in their report, which is
declared to contain these words: —-
Neither l)r. Evatt nor any other member
possesses any power to take action in
respect of such a matter.
These words of wisdom were not
issued officially to the public ; but they
should have been, since they add to the
evidence of the state of subjection in
which the Leaders of Federal Labor exist.
It has been demonstrated over the past
few years that Dr. Evatt was powerless
to prevent the Communist spy-system
from infiltrating part of his staff when
he was Minister for External Affairs.
Fie was powerless to prevent his
secretaries from coming into friendly
social contacts with well-known, even
notorious, Communists. He is now
shown to be powerless to decide what
followers the party he leads will accept,
or to dictate from whom he will accept
money to run his campaigns.
He cannot repudiate a follower because
he breaks the rules of the party and
associates with members of an organisa-
tion which was declared illegal early in
the war when it went all-out to support
Hitler and demand a peace with him
which was tantamount to shameful and
ignominious surrender. At least, not
unless the A.L.P. executive tells him to.
He is, in fact, as helpless as a babe
in arms, a sort of puppet in a Punch-
and-Judy show.
Literary Fellowships
The Commonwealth Literary Fund asks
that applications for literary fellowships
should be sent in by September 15 this
year instead of by the usual date of
October 1.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Tn one compartment of a North Shore
train only three women out of
14 wore hats. A check-up in Sydney
streets gave about the same average.
Showing-off their perms., or paying-off
their TV?—“D.A.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jaybee”: The hire-purchase war with
no deposit and discount shams such as
“Tenners for toasters," has become
commonplace in Melbourne since tele-
vision. Apparently unable to compete
with the super-sales gimmicks of rival
firms, one city retailer has a large display-
sign reading:
Try our worry-free purchase plan:
100 per cent, deposit—no weekly repayment
—no interest.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Eureka”: Things have certainly
changed since I was a kid. Should the
Governor visit the town the children
were given a holiday, practically all
activity in the district ceased and about
99 per cent, of the population put on
their best Sunday clothes to attend the
welcome to his Excellency. But lately,
when his Excellency visited the City of
Parramatta to open the new R.S.L.
Memorial Hall, a handful attended to
listen to the addresses. Less than a
couple of hundred yards away dozens of
bowlers on the bowling-greens went on
with the game, not even bothering to
stand to attention for the National
Anthem ; golfers golfed ; kids in the
park kicked footballs; motorists drove
leisurely round the park and streets. A
lad leading a dog through the park
stopped for a moment and asked me:
“Who's the bloke talking, mister?”
» *> *t*
“Doric”: “Of course, she’s old, my
dear,” she said in her feline way ; “have
you noticed her knees?” I always knew
that the age of a tree was estimated by
its rings and of a horse by its teeth, but
a woman’s knees—-are they the disclosure
of the world’s best-kept secret?
❖ ♦>
“Judee”: Lake Macquarie (N.S.W.)
Shire Council, not notably well-to-do,
with a population of 71,000, spent
£54,249 (15s. 4d. for every resident) on
libraries in 1957, and so led the State.
The shire has a central library, two
part-time branches, three book-deposit
stations and a bookmobile. The nearby
rich Newcastle City Council (population
135,890) spent 7s. sd. per capita, or a
total of £50,406. It is 18th on the
N.S.W. list in per capita spending. After
Lake Macquarie came Armidale (13s.
lOd. a head on library services), Sydney
(10s. Gosford (10s. Id.), Wollon-
gong (9s. 64d.) and Bathurst (Bs. 9d.).
A recent survey showed that the Aus-
tralian per capita book-expenditure of
£1 Is. a year was among the highest in
the world. Australia has a bookshop
for every 14,000 of population ; Britain,
1-30,000 ; U.S.A., 1-160,000.
“Peripat”: The more moderne depart-
ment - stores have peculiar ideas of
encouraging sales. What with blazing
ceiling-lights, a la “Cat On a Hot Tin
Roof,” and heated floors, the shopper
pushing the money over the counter is
just the meat in the sandwich.
❖ ❖
“Mig”: When my son entrusted me
with his new camera and a 375. 6d. roll
of color-film to take shots of the
house and garden I spent half the day
in grotesque attitudes, busy with light,
angles, perspective . . . The result was
16 squares of blackness, because I had
failed to pull out the camera’s snout
an extra 2in. I consoled myself with
the thought that I had a good story to
enliven the next family gathering. But
my cousin had a better story. Being
instructed by her son to record a civic
function in which 'he was"taking a major
part, she held his box-camera on its
side and made 8 shots of the underside
of her chin! Ah, well, l dare say we
were just meant to be Mrs. Beatons, not
Cecil Beatons.
“Have you a bloom that Would express the sentiment ‘We had a wonderful
time together , cant We just be good friends?' ”
KERO. KIDS
“Chief Pharmacist of Adelaide Children’s
Hospital, Mr. S. A. Downie, told the Australian
Science Congress that one child in three
admitted to his hospital suffering from poison-
ing had swallowed kerosene.”
1 wonder what the reason’s been
For children drinking kerosene?
It cannot be that they
Seek thus to jettison life’s load
When walking out on any road
Is such a simple way.
Well, maybe burning is their aim
With the hard and gemlike flame
That Pater talked about;
Maybe they seek the martyr s pyre
And hope to light at last a fire
That will not be put out.
But on the whole, I think it is
Their education that’s amiss:
It’s up to us adults
To see the kids are taught to switch
From kerosene to metho, which
Gave us such good results.
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


Surely it wasn’t intentional —the sign
at the goat section at the Brisbane
Exhibition: “Reserved for women com-
petitors only.”—“T.K.”
♦> ❖
“Pip Tok”: The fearsome science of
ballistics has made yet another change
in the language ; newspapers have been
devoting much space to what they call
“shooting the moon.” Back in Queen
Victoria’s time, when horse-drawn carts
used to creak noisily along city back-
streets at all hours of the night, “shoot-
ing the moon” was the term applied to
night-operations in which defaulting
tenants removed their furniture and other
belongings without paying arrears of
rent, before the landlord had time to put
in the bailiff.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Amcee”: The staff situation at the
hospital was pretty good and business
was quiet, so the three married members
decided they’d each take one week off.
The reactions of the husbands were:
No. 1: “What’s wrong with you this
time?” No. 2 (a schoolteacher): “Why
don’t you take it when the kids are on
holidays?” No. 3: “Well, don’t take it
when I’ve got my holidays, because l
won’t get any work done.”
Tn Victoria, confectionery-manufac-
-*• turers have avoided charging more
for blocks of chocolate by slightly
reducing their size ; quarter-pound
slabs being replaced by packages
that look the same size but weigh a
little less. Match-manufacturers followed
suit, retaining the same size of matchbox
but reducing the contents from 60 to 50
matches. I suppose that when the
chocolate-block is reduced to a mere
ounce, packaged to look like a quarter-
pound, and the matchbox contains a
mere half-dozen matches the customers
will get around to paying for them with
threepences got-up to look like two-bobs,
and farthings the shopkeepers will cheer-
fully take for threepences. —“Wusslean.”
►> ♦> *i<
“Lillydale”: Modern privileges such as
40-hour weeks and medical attention for
shop-assistants —pshaw! In World War I
my A.I.F. mate led me into Craig
Williamsons, informed the frock-coated
shopwalker we desired to take Miss Jones
and another to tea, and in five minutes
the girls, gloved and hatted, were handed
into our care by Old Striped-pants, who
ushered us out into Elizabeth Street as
though we wore crossed swords and not
single pips. Fifty minutes later we
returned, and the shopwalker’s waxed
moustaches quivered with patriotism as
he expressed the hope of seeing us again
any time we were in Melbourne.
*> *Z* ♦>
“Kinta”: This one was neither an
antique nor engaged in rainmaking,
“Airs-crew” and “Wommadoo” (B.
13/8/’5B), but a DC3 with one dead
motor, awaiting take-off from a small
Turkish airport. My friend, who was a
passenger, watched in dismay the lone
official nonchalantly pull out the spark-
plugs, blow on them, replace them, and
a moment later give the thumbs-up sign.
Reflecting complacently on the efficiency
of Australian airlines, imagine my
friend’s feelings when a Viscount on
the Canberra-Sydney run was delayed
15 to 20 minutes by an apparently
jammed propeller-blade. An assortment
of officials, including skipper and co-
pilot, tugged at the offending prop.;
suddenly a shoe was removed from a
foot, a handkerchief wrapped around the
heel, and the final blow delivered, with
obvious success! And that plane, too,
reached its destination without incident.
■*J 4 *
“P.G.R.”: Speaking of “oriums,” the
delicatessen opened in Tucker Road,
McKinnon (Melbourne), shows origi-
nality: “Tuckertorium.”
+J+
“Corio”: Additions to a Victorian
distillery were the occasion for a slap-up
luncheon in a large marquee ; each table
bore generous quantities of beer and
whisky, the only incongruous note being
that the whisky-brands were those of a
rival concern.
<s* ♦>
“Bo”: “Fresh” is certainly getting a
doing-over in the realms of advertising.
Bricks have joined the august company
of biscuits and cakes in being designated
as “oven-fresh”; I am constantly being
assured by retailers that their TV-sets
are “factory-fresh.” It’s a great comfort
to know that, when I do buy one, it
won’t be stale or on the turn, and cer-
tainly not going bad —not, anyway, as
bad as some of the programmes. Our
butcher proudly announces that his
snorks are “shop-fresh” —which, I gather,
must apply also to all strings of mystery
A WAISTED EFFORT
“Yves St. Laurent, Paris’s new fashion-
dictator, has decreed that the ‘wandering’ waist
will be this season’s high fashion.”
Whether milady sports a sack
(At sight of which there’s never lack
Of ribald masculine laughter);
A thing that should be meant to please,
Known Lord knows why! —as the
“trapeze”;
That haute couture gem the “chemise”
(Than which there’s nothing dafter),
The ukase has gone forth; let all
Its implications ponder :
Henceforth, whether she’s smalt or tall,
A woman's waist will wander!
It might, perhaps, decide to trek
To somewhere between bust and neck ;
Though girls who love to swank’ll
Never be really satisfied
Until full freedom they’ve applied
And, glowing with triumph, they have
tried
It just above the ankle.
Wherever along her length it’s placed,
Whether she’s skinny or podgy,
One thing is clear : the unswerving waist
Denotes that she is stodgy.
You’ve simply got to look a freak
If you would be described as chic —
It’s all part of the racket.
It’s allied with the perm, and paint
To make a gal look what she ain’t.
The peripatetic waist that mayn’t.
Be anchored’s in the bracket.
The lover’s ire it must provoke.
Some men, though, will not mind it —
I mean the radio-comedy folk.
They’re sure to wring from it a joke
A bout the keen surveyor-bloke
Who used, as quite a master-stroke.
Theodolite to find it!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


festooned among the legs and shoulders
around the walls of any butcher’s shop.
“Garden-fresh” beans are the stock
standby of Giuseppe up at the corner
vegetorium. I wear a “workroom-fresh”
suit, and I hope to buy another
“showroom-fresh” car some day; and
possibly next winter I’ll be buying
“forest-fresh” firewood. To make it
quite complete it needs now only for
the Meat Board to come into the field
and give gardeners the benefit of
“abattoirs-fresh” blood-and-bone. One
sniff, and you’d easily be able to distin-
guish it from the stuff that’s been on the
shelves for a long time!
* * *
“Flickers”: Les Blake (B. 13/8/’5B)
credited Australian movie-director Ray-
mond Longford with the invention of the
close-up. Much as I admire Longford’s
efforts, there are others who can claim
use of this technique long before 1908,
when he began making films. Edwin S.
Porter’s “The Great Train Robbery”
“Very Well, m'dear , order the new model and give the boy the bomb."
(1903) used a close-up of an outlaw
firing his pistol at the audience—you can
see it at the Canberra National Film
Library. The film-historian Georges
Sadoul stated in his pamphlet, “British
Creators of Film Technique,” that G. A.
Smith made “Grandma’s Reading Glass”
in 1900, and used close-ups of a watch,
a canary, an eye, and a cat’s head as
seen through a magnifying-glass held by
a small boy.
♦> ►;*
“Eruditus”: I fail to be impressed by
“Bicky’s” (B. 20/8/’5B) analogy between
telephone-numbers and motor-car regis-
tration-plates. The new Melbourne
telephone-numbers are being written:
63-7058. Had it not its hyphen,' 637058
would be much harder to memorise than
MF 7058, but with its hyphen I cannot
see any difficulty in memorising it. A
telephone-dial can use only 20 numerals,
whereas a three-letter, three-numeral
motor registration-plate can use each of
the 26 letters of the alphabet in each of
the three-letter positions. Using the
algebraic formulae for permutations,
there are 26 x 26 x 26, i.e., 17,576 different
arrangements of three letters, whereas
there are only 1000 for three numerals.
Taking 1000 registrations per prefix, as
at present, one can obtain 17,576,000 for
the system where three of the six symbols
are letters, against 1,000,000 for six
numerals. Memorising groups of symbols
is quite easy if the groups are divided
by pauses, e.g. the hyphen in 63-7058,
or breaks in the symbol system, as in
a change from letters to numerals
(MF 7058). Also, telephone-dials having
only the 10 numerals are much cheaper
to produce in quantity than the present
20-symbol mixed-system dial.
❖ *> ❖
“Jadas”: TV has made it tough for
Victorian suburban film - folk. Five
suburban theatres have flashed “The
End” permanently, nine are restricted
to two or three screenings each week.
But surely not this tough: Dinner-
suited manager walked on to the footpath
to survey the miserable queue, kicked
stray cigarette-packets and ice-cream
wraps into the gutter, bent down, and
strode back to his office gleefully clutch-
ing an evening paper. Not that tough,
surely. . . But I may have been mistaken ;
his harvest may have been a king-size
butt.
❖ ❖ *
“Tidak Makan”: There was an argu-
ment a while ago whether Australians
could be placed geographically by their
accents. It seemed to be generally
agreed that they can’t. I spent over three
years in a hut in a p.-0.-w. camp with 60
other A.I.F. members, and there were
representatives from every State as well
as New Guinea. The only differences I
could pick were that Queenslanders used
to call Newcastle “Newcassell” and
pippies something else. Victorians used
to call what we call lobsters “crayfish,”
and thought that there was some social
distinction about having a “V” preceding
the “X” in their regimental numbers.
Apart from these points the Victorians
and Queenslanders appeared quite nor-
mal. It was difficult to assess the bloke
from New Guinea, because he reckoned
he must have been troppo when he
enlisted.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Lorna Doone”: This morning I saw
an old bomb left overnight on the side
of the road, one rear-wheel and the spare
placed flat on each other under the back
axle, jacking her up. I s’pose the owner
thought she was safe enough. Myself, I
wouldn’t be so sanguine now —since the
night I emerged from a house on a busy
road to find my car reclining on one rear
brake-drum in the gutter. They didn’t even
use a jack, just lifted her up, as evidenced
by the dirty hand-marks on the mud-
guard. Only redeeming feature was the
nuts in the hub-cap in the gutter!
♦♦♦ +s► *x*
“Ringerette”: The bus had been filled
to capacity when it departed the city on
its 300-mile journey, but by mid-after-
noon many passengers had disembarked,
and so several seats were vacant. During
a brief stop at a tiny town one middle-
aged passenger of dishevelled attire and
disgruntled disposition was complaining
in mournful tones of the bumpy-trip.
Suggested a friendly soul: “You’re sitting
over the wheel, there. Why don't you
move farther back to that empty seat on
the other side?” The mournful one con-
sidered this advice for a few seconds and
then, obviously perplexed, replied: “But
I thought this bus had wheels on both
sides! ”
“Mugga Way”: When will Australian
public-relations “officers,” or “con-
sultants” or whatever, follow the U.S.,
where big business is talking about the
“engineering of consent," to describe the
work of the “hidden persuaders”? Judge
Learned Hand called this species of
“engineering” a “black art.” Perhaps
he’s not far wrong.
❖ ♦>
“Jeyles”: The Melbourne constabulary
has been disconcerted not only by the
alacrity of arrival at accidents of too
many rescuing knights of the tow-car but
by their indecorous jousting for the
privileges there attendant. The citizenry
were assured via the daily press that a
system to tranquillise these recurrent
brouhahas had been evolved. The listen-
ing public was intrigued to hear a few
nights later a radio night-beat session at
the scene of a smash. All the on-the-spot
interviews with bystanders and ambulance-
men lacked the dramatic interest of the
clearly recorded and most unfriendly dis-
cussion among the police, one tow-truck
driver whom the police had allotted the
job and another tow-truck operator. The
last enterprising character pointed out
angrily that he had the crashed car-
driver’s signature to do the job, despite
the discouraging reiteration by the gen-
darme that all participants in the wreck
were unconscious or worse.


THE PICTURES
So that is how my pictures spend their time
(That have all time to spend) when no one’s looking j
And only moonlight comes to visit them j
Or silent midnight up the dark stairs creaking:
Needing no commendation, fearing no fall,
Quietly living their own lives on the wall. ‘
There’s Percy Lindsay’s ploughman he set up high j
Among white glittering cloud and the blue of noon ; \
He painted his own happiness into the sky
And all through midnight keeps this time of his own. ]
There like a dark-green wall stands Blamire Young; •
He found a sheep-track up to the bird’s song.
There silently crashing down on cliff and boulder
Glimmers Lance Solomon’s wave in its white swirl;
There Margaret Coen’s magnolias curve and smoulder
Like coals of moonlight, like a naked girl;
There half in the light, still half in the shadows’ mesh,
The wistfulness of spirit caught in flesh,
Shines the dark grace of Norman Lindsay’s Rita,
Breathing unearthly stillness. How strange it seems.
I should have walked with, talked with, known these people
On whose clear art the light so moves and gleams ;
And one entrusted me for my safe-keeping,
My wife now in the next room quietly sleeping.
These were the people high and far and lonely ;
Laughed, loved and lived indeed; and yet were bidden
Walk outside life, care nothing, so that only
They might distil from the visible world its hidden
Order and grace and clarity. As they have done
Here in their pictures cool as the light of the moon.
Woman and flower and wave, gleaming and shadowy,
Seen for the first time in their full reality
They burn now in the moonlight’s soft intensity
Like ghosts on the wall. That light is from eternity.
It moves from sky to petal, from foam to face
And fills my night with their immortal grace.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


POLITICAL POINTS
Press reports say Russia has a plan for
melting the Arctic icecap in order to im-
prove the weather of northern Europe.
It sounds like a sinister plot to foil
American subicemarines by taking away
their ice.
• •
Bill Wentworth’s suggestion that New
Zealand should be invited to join the
Australian Commonwealth is not likely
to be received with whoops of gratitude
on the other side of the Tasman. New
Zealand was represented at the first
Federal convention, in 1891, but its dele-
gates were instructed not to bind their
colony in any way. Subsequently the
New Zealand Parliament threw out a
motion on Federation introduced by Sir
George Grey, one of the delegates. The
Dominion did not send representatives
to the 1897 convention and its people
have never since shown any desire for
union with Australia. Quite the reverse.
Wentworth’s idea is that N.Z.’s finan-
cial position is hopeless and that integra-
tion with Australia is the only solution.
This view is rather pessimistic, but even
if it were a correct assessment of the
situation the average Enzedder would
probably rather be a broke Kiwi than a
well-pouchcd Kangaroo.
• ®
The “S.M. Herald” grinds slowly:
after a year or so’s plugging of Sydney
opera-house design, and whooping-up of
subscriptions to build it, she reaches the
64-dollar question: “Just who is going
to use the opera-house? And for what?”
Surely every one knew it was merely
being built on spec!
• •
It seems likely that Libs, and Labor
in N. S. Wales will go to the State elec-
tions waving rival Bills of Rights. They’d
be much wiser to tie the two charters-of-
liberty together and bury them under
Cahill’s Opera House. Defining rights
automatically restricts them.
• •
The Lambeth Conference resolution
criticising the White Australia policy was
undoubtedly influenced by the presence
of many bishops from Asia and Africa
whose interest was not necessarily
entirely spiritual. There was a time when
a statement from an Asian bishop would
have had much more significance for
Australia. In the early part of the 19th
century this continent formed part of the
spiritual realm of the Bishop of Calcutta.
One incumbent of the diocese in that
period was Bishop Heber who, contem-
plating Ceylon a century-and-a-quarter
before the Colombo Plan, recorded that
“every prospect pleases and only man is
vile.” He didn’t explain whether he was
referring to the native Singhalese, the
English and Portuguese planters and
traders, or merely mankind in general,
but he did advocate Indian migration
to Australia. Nothing came of the sug-
gestion. If the advice had been followed
the Lambeth Conference would not have
beenicriticising the White Australia policy
last week. On the other hand, it might
not have been able to say, as it did.
“Whereas Australia is without racial
conflict.”
• •
Dr. Felix Dittmer, a successful
mining promoter, who for a ' brief
period was deputy-leader of the A.L.P.
in the Queensland Parliament, but who
lost his Mt. Gravatt seat at the last
election, has been placed No. 2 on the
Labor ticket for the Senate. Gordon
Brown, Senator since 1932, gets first
place.
• •
Iceland, which is trying to enforce a
12-mile limit for its territorial waters, was
one of eight countries which claimed that
limit at the Geneva Conference on the
Law of the Sea. Twenty-eight countries
favored a 3-mile limit; five wanted 4
miles ; one, 5 ; seventeen, 6 ; one, 81;
two, 9. Five claimed fishing-rights up to
200 miles. No agreement was reached,
and Iceland’s action lacks any inter-
national authority.
• •
Antarctic leader Phillip Law told the
Science Congress in Adelaide that man
would develop and exploit Antarctica on
an ever-growing scale, adding the predic-
tion that never again would the Antarctic
be deserted. If the penguins have any
sense they’ll start a “White Antarctic”
policy right away.
• •
In Brisbane the A.L.P. has changed
the name of its “Labor News” to the
“New Standard,” which will be published
weekly instead of fortnightly. And the
Q.L.P. has announced the birth of its
new paper —the “Standard.”
• •
Atomic authorities in Britain have
announced that another and bigger Zeta
is to be built, in which it is hoped to
achieve temperatures of 100-million
degrees centigrade, or more. This will be
another step on the way towards making
the water of the world’s oceans supply
unlimited power for mankind’s needs.
Honi Heke ("Bill") Wentworth Inciting Another Maori War.


“The Cahill Expressway” sounds like
a string of coffee-bars.
• 9
“Hitch-hikers Anonymous” has been
formed in Melbourne w'ith a membership
pledged to hitch-hike to work one day
a week after the new fares come into
operation in October.
With three more years in office assured,
Premier Bolte talks and acts with com-
placent authority, but, with a Federal
election looming, many Libs, feel
less smug about antagonising voters,
especially swinging strap-hanger voters.
9 9
Under an agreement signed in Kuala
Lumpur by John McEwen and the
Malayan Minister for Trade, Australia
will allow Malayan rubber to enter the
country duty-free (at present there is a
duty of 2d. a lb.); Malayan tin will con-
tinue to be admitted duty-free. In
return Malaya will grant 80,000 tons of
Australian flour and 14,000 tons of Aus-
tralian wheat protection against dumped
European wheat and flour ; preferential
tariffs will also apply to Australian cheese,
processed-milk, butter, tinned fruits,
tanned hides and skins.
It is hoped the agreement will restore
this country’s former position as supplier
of foodstuffs to Malaya. Recently
French competition reduced Australia’s
share of the Malayan wheat- and flour-
imports from 90 per cent, to 58 per cent.
9 9
Victorian Labor's well-publicised plans
for upsetting the Bolte Government in
the Legislative Council, where Labor and
the Country party have a one-vote
majority, doesn’t seem to have made any
headway in the last few weeks. Perhaps
it was just a sop for the mob while
Opposition-leader Shepherd relaxed at
Surfers’ and then returned to Melbourne,
leaving the accommodation open for
John Galbally, Opposition-leader in the
Council, to get his dose of sun ’n’ surf.
• 9
The resignation, through ill-health, of
Tasmanian Premier Cosgrove had been
expected for some time, as had the elec-
tion of his former deputy, Eric Elliott
Reece, as his successor. Cosgrove, who
resigned his seat as well as the Premier-
ship last week, was first elected to the
Tasmanian Parliament in 1919. He was
defeated at the 1922 election, came back
again three years later, lost his seat for
the second time in 1931 and won it for
keeps, in 1934.
Cosgrove's Ministerial experience dates
from 1934 when he was made Minister
for Agriculture in the Ogilvie Govern-
ment. He also served in the short-lived
Dwyer-Gray Cabinet in 1939 and became
Premier at the end of that year, holding
office ever since with the exception of
two months early in 1948 while he was
standing trial on charges of bribery.
After his acquittal on those charges
Cosgrove was re-elected Premier.
New Tasmanian Premier Reece has
been one of the Labor members for
Darwin since 1946 and a member of
Cabinet for the same period. At the
time of his elevation to the Premiership
he was Minister for Lands, Works and
Mines, and had been Deputy-Premier
since the resignation of R. F. Fagan early
in June. An A.W.U. man, he was
Federal president of the A.L.P. in 1952.
• •
A bill to ratify the agreement between
the S.A. Government and Standard-
Vacuum for the construction of an oil-
refinery at Hallett’s Cove, near Adelaide,
was introduced into the S.A. Parliament
last week. Premier Piayford said he
hoped the refinery would be completed
by 1961. From the Government view-
point it would involve the building of
250 houses, a heavy-duty road linking
with the main road to Adelaide and a
two-mile railway to carry the 60 rail-
tankers a day which would be required
for distribution of the refinery’s products.
Piayford said he understood the com-
pany had considered sites in Queensland
and at Honolulu before choosing Hallett’s
Cove.
9 •
Bolte explained to the annual con-
ference of the Victorian Liberals that im-
mediate expenditure on electricity under-
takings had risen from £2O million to £2B
million and there would have been no
need to raise charges to consumers if
the Loan Council had granted Victoria
an additional £2 million ; also that fares
had to rise because another £5 million
deficit was faced in the railways and
the State’s future would have been
jeopardised without the increased charges.
What he didn’t explain was why all
the Ministers concerned were out of
town when the higher utility charges were
announced.
9 •
Banning of the importation of ships
may be one way of aiding the local ship-
building industry. A better way would
be a proper survey of the needs of several
Asian countries for good, reliable and
reasonably cheap coasters. Are the ship-
builders doing anything about it?
9 •
The trade-unions are still trying to
make the arbitration system a toothless
wonder. The A.C.T.U. inter-State execu-
tive played for sympathy the other day
by asserting that the trade-union move-
ment’s confidence in the system as a
means of improving living-standards was
being “weakened” because of attacks on
unions under penal legislation. This over-
looks the fact that the “bosses” are sub-
ject to the same legislation. The A.C.T.U.
wants its members to be able to take
what they like, get the most they can,
and reject with complete impunity any-
thing they dislike in awards and findings.
9 9
“Ex-ACT”: By inference, the Prime
Minister explained the other day the
reason for his decision, criticised in some
quarters, to make an ex-Navy man Air
Minister, an ex-soldier Navy Minister
and an ex-civil-service man Army
Minister. Discussing the scientists’
lament that the politicians didn’t under-
stand them, Menzies said he’d just as
soon have a man who didn’t pretend to
be an expert but was capable of under-
standing the value of the opinion of
genuine experts. He had seen a few
cases of Ministers with a smattering of
some technique undertaking to put right
the genuine experts in their own depart-
ments. “You can be quite intelligent
without being a scientist,” he added.
Wonder which Ministers he had in mind.
• •
“Collins Street”: The grave unease in
Victoria at the hint by the Taxation
Department that awards won by foot-
ballers may be taxable stems from the
firmly-held belief that all Australian
Rules footballers are heroes and should
be above all that sort of thing. It
would be anomalous if these sums were
not taxable, including Allen Aylett’s
“best-player” awards of £lOOO from
Ampol and £2OO from the Melbourne
“Herald,” since literary and artistic
awards are classified as taxable income.
According to the department, what has
to be decided is whether “the money
is a legitimate gift or could be classed
as income in any way.” The late
Jack Holt, doyen of horse-trainers for
many years, who received many gifts
from rich or successful owners, took a
departmental ruling that they were
taxable to the courts. He lost.
• •
Live-bird trap-shooting is passing out
in Victoria. Most Liberals favor legisla-
tion against the sport, although a
minority is vigorously in favor of it;
Labor is committed to its abolition. So
what Hyland's Country-party boys on
the cross-benches think doesn’t matter.
• •
Disabilities-grants by the Common-
wealth to the States will total £20,750,000
this year compared with £19,500,000 last
year. South Australia (as a penalty for
its growing prosperity) will receive
£450,000 less ; Westralia £950,000 more
and Tasmania £750,000 more. Actual
figures: S.A., £s| million; W.A., £ll.l
million ; Tasmania, £4.4 million.
o •
In northern Australia the Budget has
been found disappointing. It was believed
that recent visits by the Prime Minister
and others might have presaged Federal-
State co-ordination in a long-range
scheme for development, backed by tax-
concessions and subsidies. Admittedly
W.A. has been given £2| million for
special works, but that hardly represents
long-term policy. When will something
really be planned and inaugurated for
the North?
• •
In Canberra the classical themes
Are dear to the local heart:
They have Drama, Ballet and Music —•
But soon they’ll be losing their Art.
BICKY.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Notched another sort of half-century
last week, Sir Donald Bradman —a mere
practice knock as his scores go. It’s
just on 30 years (1928-29 series) since he
played his first Test-cricket. He celebrated
his 50th birthday by bowling a lively over
or two at the notion that cricket and
cricketers aren't what they used to be.
Looks forward to a “wonderful” Test-
series this season.
• •
Harold S. Adams, general-manager of
Manufacturers’ Mutual Insurance since
1951, has just celebrated his 40th
year with the company. At the dinner
given to mark the occasion, 44 of the
staff members present had served the co.
for a total of 994 years!
• •
In these motorised days, saddlery gets
more and more like the old grey mare,
but Charles H. Leifermann, of Condobo-
lin (N.S.W.), is one who can speak
authoritatively about when it was a
flourishing art, just as he can about Rugby
League in the days of big football; about
swimming, horse-racing, amateur
dramatics and the Arts Council of
N.S.W. (he’s a past-president).
Born in 1883, Leifermann (sketched
herewith) started as a pupil-teacher and
won a scholarship to Fort Street (Sydney)
Teachers’ College when J. W. Turner was
principal. He gave teaching away to
become manager of Hoffnung’s saddlery
department, and, on his father’s death
took over the family saddlery-business at
Condobolin, expanding it into the
“Million-article Store.” Though he re-
PICNIC RACES
tired from business in 1955, he’s still
patron of the Condobolin Picnic Race
Club, president of the Chamber of Com-
merce and also of the local branch of
the Manly Far West Health Scheme.
• •
Signing-off after 38 years in the
Westralian Police Force, Sergeant
Montague Riggs has been stationed in
Fremantle since 1946, but much of his
earlier service was at police-outposts
of the North-west, often on mounted
patrols covering 300 miles and lasting
a month at a time. His duties there
included bringing natives suffering from
contagious diseases back to quarantine
and hospital, and, he says, they looked
on the policeman’s blue as something to
be respected.
• •
“Maitri” farewells a great master:
Passed on in London, at 85, Ralph Vaughan
Williams, O.M. Throughout his life he created,
music in almost every known form: symphony,
opera, art-song, music for films, folksong, and,
being without musical snobbery, he was perhaps
the first composer of note to write a major
work for both the mouth-organ and the tuba.
Essentially he was a British composer who
drew inspiration from the native folksong, but
the strength and depth of his best compositions
bring them into the universal class, despite
his boast of being no more than “local.” Again,
although his preoccupation with folk-music
might seem to place him among the traditional-
ists, his most outstanding works are undated.
More than one musical authority has named
the three greatest British composers as Henry
Purcell, Edward Elgar and Vaughan Williams;
but it was as a man that he will be most
remembered by his friends and pupils. Huge,
untidy, with a mass of unruly hair; his person-
ality and character rooted in simplicity. He
lacked conceit, and genuinely liked to hear his
works criticised —even pulled to pieces—by all-
comers. Allied to this simplicity were honesty,
humility, kindliness and unfailing courtesy.
When 1 first met him, I jotted down my
impressions thus: “He is as great in nature
as he is stature.” A sad understatement, for
his nature was immeasinably greater than his
build.
• •
Making a round-trip of Australian
ports aboard the Ftaminia, Prince
Gonzalo de Bourbon is the 21-year-old
grandson of ex-King Alfonso XIII of
Spain. He is a cousin of Prince Juan
Carlos, present heir-apparent to the
Spanish throne, and is a great-grand-
nephew of Queen Victoria. When this
voyage is finished, he’ll go back to Spain
to finish his education at the University
of Madrid.
• •
“Uramao”: Sir Clifton Webb’s recent
retirement as N.Z. High Commissioner
in the United Kingdom gave the interim
work of the office to R. M. Campbell,
who’s been his right-hand man for many
years. An Aucklander, aged 60,
Campbell is a Ph.D. of London Univer-
sity. Winning a Commonwealth fellow-
ship in 1929, he went to the U.S.A. to
gain experience, then became private
secretary to N.Z. Prime Minister J. G.
Coates. After a term as official
secretary to the High Commissioner in
London, he returned to Maoriland in
1946 to lead a Public Service Commis-
sion ; then went back to London four
years ago to rejoin the High Commis-
sioner’s Office.
SIR KENNETH FRASER, of Bris-
bane, (B. 18/16/’58), knighted in the
Queen's Birthday honors.
Beginning his career in the Victorian
Railways (in th,e unpopular commercial
department which deals with freights
and passengers’ fares), Maurice Harkins
switched to the Government Tourist
Bureau, where he’s been for 24 years—
director of accommodation during the
Melbourne Olympics and manager since
last November. Now he’s been picked
to direct the Victorian Tourist Develop-
ment Advisory Committee, which aims
at improving tourist-facilities and co-
ordinating the activities of all interested
bodies.
• •
Retiring as general-manager of the
Launceston Bank for Savings, Ronald S.
Tyson is widely known in Tasmanian
sport and amateur theatricals, as well as
in banking. Joining the bank as a junior
clerk at Launceston in 1907, he had over
50 years in the one office, becoming
general-manager in 1936. In sport he has
the remarkable tally of six life-member-
ships (three in cricket and three in foot-
ball), and he holds yet another, in
amateur theatricals —with the Launceston
Players. The Queen gave him his 0.8. E.
during her Hobart visit.
• •
Currently in Sydney is Walter R.
Groshong, alert and dapper president of
Bardahl Pacific Corporation. “Warm in
welcome but a trifle cold after Honolulu,”
where he is based, is his view of Sydney.
“But,” he says, “your opportunities for


expansion and capital-investment are
remarkable.” Friend and one-time
Seattle neighbor of Ole Bardahl,
originator of the lubricant that bears his
name, W.R.G. is in charge of activities
throughout the Pacific zone.
• •
Twenty-six-year-old John D. (“Jock )
Robertson, of Scone (N.S.W.), looks like
being one of the youngest cattle-judges
ever to officiate at an Australian “Royal”
—he’s picked to judge Poll Shorthorns
at the Melbourne Show. With his own
Poll Shorthorn stud at Scone, Robertson
won the reserve junior championship at
the Brisbane Royal Show with Albinia
Gift. His father, Doug Robertson, of
Albinia Downs (Q.), is one of the best-
known stud and commercial cattle-
breeders in Australia.
• •
On a current visit, Howard C.
Shepherd, chairman of the board of the
First National City Bank of New York
and director of many American com-
panies. He'll have talks in Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Canberra with Australian
bankers, Government officials and leading
industrialists, before continuing his
travels to the Far East.
• •
After 17 years in the Chair of
Economics at the Westralian University,
Professor F. R. E. Mauldon is calling
it a day. A Sydney graduate, he started
with the N.S.W. Registrar-General’s
Department; work with the adult-educa-
tion scheme brought him university
lectureships in Sydney, Melbourne and
Hobart; then the award of a Rockefeller
Fellowship took him to the U.S., where
he researched at Harvard in the eco-
nomics of coal-production. His Westra-
lian appointment came after he’d been
research - director of the Common-
wealth Bureau of Statistics at Canberra.
Under his direction the Economics
Department of the Westralian University
grew into a faculty and did much
valuable research.
• •
“A.C.T.”: Has a First Lord of the
Admiralty ever visited Australia while
in office? If not, then Lord Selkirk
will make history when he comes here
(September 18 to 25) as part of his visit
to the Far East Station and to the British
Commonwealth navies of Australia, New
Zealand, India and Pakistan. He will
confer with Ministers and with services’
chiefs-of-staff.
• •
From Taiping, Malaya, comes a report
that a war-dog used by the 3rd Battalion,
Royal Australian Regiment, on their
jungle-patrols has been named after
Brigadier H. J. Mogg, D. 5.0., Com-
mander of 28 Commonwealth Infantry
Brigade Group. Brigadier Mogg has
lately been visiting sub-units of the Aus-
tralian component of his brigade group,
accompanied by Major P. E. Seddon,
of Georgetown (S.A.), who commands
100(A) Field Battery, R.A.A., and by
Major M. B. Simpkin, of Melbourne,
from the 3rd Battalion. C.O. of the 3rd
Battalion is Lieut.-Colonel J. F. White,
of Adelaide.
0 0
“Symonym”: Melbourne University,
catching-up with modern necessities, has
appointed Clive Turnbull its public-rela-
tions officer. Drawn admiringly here by
Dick Ovenden, Turnbull is in public-
relations on his own account, but remains
one of the best, and best-read, contri-
butors to the dailies: a literate, lucid and
engagingly witty writer, with a leaning
towards such diverse subjects as old
Melbourne and old Sydney, modern art
and Australia’s industrial development,
particularly B.H.P.’s. He put in his first
journalistic years on the Hobart "Mer-
cury,” arriving in Melbourne in the
’twenties, a long, lanky youth with a
PUBLIC RELATIONS
fancy for resplendent garb ; now he’s a
substantial citizen in substantial tweeds,
with a fancy for a resplendent cigar.
• •
Newly-appointed Chief Commissioner
for the Boy Scouts’ Association in
N.S.W., Vincent C. Fairfax is a man of
many parts. Born in outback Queens-
land, he gained an Oxford 8.A., then
became advertising-manager in the family
firm (“Sydney Morning Herald”), and in
World War II was an artillery major
in the A.I.F. He’s now a director of
John Fairfax, Ltd., and on other boards ;
is a councillor of the R.A.S. and of the
N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’ Association ; and
is Rector’s warden at St. Mark’s
Church, Darling Point, Sydney.
On the Scouting side, he was Scout-
master in 1936 and Deputy Chief Com-
missioner in 1952, leading the N.S.W.
contingent at the Pan-Pacific Jamboree
of 1955-56. His wife and four children,
too, have all been associated with either
the Scouts or the Guides.
Warning—Don’t argue with Fairfax.
He represented Oxford at jiu-jitsu.
• e
Director of the Waite Agricultural
Research Institute at Adelaide University,
Dr. James Melville has been appointed
a part-time member of the C.5.1.R.0.
executive, repiacing H. J. Goodes, who
retired recently. A New Zealander, Dr.
Melville did post-graduate work, in
London and later at Yale University
(U.S.A.) before returning to New
Zealand to take-up important posts in
scientific and industrial research. He
went to the Waite Institute in 1955.
During the war he was a captain in the
South and South-west Pacific. He’s the
author of many scientific papers on
biochemistry and agriculture.
• e
Into the Silence:
At Palmerston North (N.Z.), Ernest Alfred
Blundell, chairman of directors of Wellington
“Evening Post” and former chairman of the
N.Z. Press Association; also an active member
of racing, golf, boxing and social clubs.
Grandson of the founder of the “Post.”
In Sydney, at 74, William Chambers, chair-
man of directors of Chambers and Co., Ltd.,
Customs-agents.
At Akaroa (N.Z.), Miss Blanche Edith
Baughan, one of New Zealand's best-known
poets and founder of the N.Z. Howa.d League
for Penal Reform.
At Bluff (N.Z.), at 81, William Stead, vice-
captain of the famous All Blacks who swept
England in 1905. In collaboiaiion with Dave
Gallagher he was author of the book The
Complete Rugby Footballer.
In North Adelaide, at 65, Professor Charles
Rischbieth Jury, poet, dramatist; Professsor of
English Language and Literature at the
University of Adelaide 1946-49.
In Melbourne, at 67, Adolf Spivakovsky,
teacher of singing at the University of Mel-
bourne from 1934 till his death. His pupils
included Sylvia Fisher and Glenda Raymond.
In Brisbane, at 83, Harold Leslie Hartley,
who served with the Third Bushmen's Con-
tingent in the Boer War, and was M.L.A. for
Fitzroy 1915-29.
In Sydney, at 74, Brigadier Harold Ireland
Johnson, general-secretary of the N.R.M.A.,
1923-48, chairman of Carapark Productions,
Ltd., and on the board of other businesses.
In Sydney, at 63, Herbert Wilmot Hesketh,
N.S.W. hon. treasurer of the Liberal party
since 1944, and chairman and managing-director
of Electrical Installations, Ltd.
Drowned in the Wanganui River (N.Z.),
Captain Andrew Anderson, well known to
tourists as a river-boat skipper, as his father
had been before him.
In Perth, at 73, James M. O'Malley, who,
born at Jedburgh (Scotland), came to Westralia
in 1911 and developed one of the Slate’s biggest
nursery- and vegetable-gardens. One of the
founders of the Osborne Park Agricultural
Society (secretary for 18 years), he represented
Osborne Park on the Perth Road Board for
over 10 years.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 73, Dr. A. C.
McKillop, 0.8. E., E.D., M. 8., Ch.B., medical
superintendent of Sunnyside Mental Hospital
for 23 years. Coming to N.Z. in 1911, he
served at Porirua Hospital and then in the
Kaiser’s war (Samoa, Egypt and Gallipoli).


ABORIGINALITIES
Gibby has gone from the hills
w round Marble Bar (W.A.), buried
by his own request in an overcoat,
because “I’ll freeze down there after
living here for 30 years.”
It was Gibby who astonished the
scientists at Wallal on the occasion of
the solar eclipse of 1922.
Passing the tent where the time-
fixing gear was housed, he
heard the remark passed that
it was exactly 11.45. He drifted
across to the photographic
section and heard the chap in
charge order his mate to check
the time over the field phone.
“No need for that, boys,” he
drawled. “It’s exactly 11.47 be
th’ sun." “We'll check just the
same,” the boss-man ordered ;
did so —and reckoned Gibby
was a marvel!
Gibby struck a patch worth
thousands and decided (a) to
have his broken front teeth
repaired with diamonds, a la
Jack Johnson, and (b) make a
trip to England. Six months
later he returned broke, but his
cheerful grin still glittering. To
inquiries about England he
replied: “Never saw the joint.
Never went ashore. Plenty
o’ grog aboard, an’ good comp’ny.
See this rigout?” He indicated the brass-
bound naval frock-coat and tricorne hat
which he wore with flannel shirt and
khaki shorts. “Me cobber, th’ skipper,
give me these —decent bloke. An’ could
he sink th’ rum!
“See these teeth? They saved me life!
There was a rajah bloke on th’ boat
cornin’ back who took a fancy t’ me.
He invited me to his palace in the bush
in Malaya, and took me on a tiger-hunt.
We rode about on elephants all day an’
saw nary a tiger, but I saw some likely
lookin’ speckin’ country, so I got down
an’ went back t’ have a look' at it, an’
I walked straight into a tiger.
“He sprang at me ’n missed an’ landed
behind me. He tried again an’ missed.
He kept on missin’ me, an’ slunk off
with his tail between his legs. I broke
all records catchin’ up with the rajah.
He turned back, an’ there, s’welp me,
was th' tiger, making practice jumps at
a stump. Dinkum! It was the dazzle
of these dimen’ molars made him miss.”
Yes, we’ll miss Gibby.
William Harleom.
* * * •
“Missus J. R.”: The Other Half, flood-
bound at the small cane-town of Giru
(N.Q.), went to the local picture-show
to kill time. So entranced was he by
the sight of patrons vigorously squirting
the air with flit-guns that he didn’t see
the 71b. brick on the floor until his toe
“Yes, I eat like a horse—why do you ask ?”
found it. Then he took note that the
dirt floor was liberally dotted with bricks,
Old hands, alive to the mosquito prob-
lem, pulled insect-spirals from their
pockets, lit up, popped them on a brick,
and settled back in peace. He said that
by half-time, what with spray and
cocksec, the place smelt like half-a-dozen
j°ss-houses.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: As a lad in a Southern
Monaro (N.S.W.) town, I was sent to
post a letter, being told to put it in the
little slit in the wall. I did just that,
but it was not in the slit in the post-
office, but a ventilator beneath the
foundations of a brick building nearby.
My mother was too late telling me that
I had selected the wrong slit. I have
returned to this town and noted that
the brick building still stands, and no
doubt the letter is still there. Some day
when the building is demolished some-
one will get a few bob for a Bulletin
par.—and the post-office will get an
undeserved kick in the pants.
* * * * •
“A 1 Pal”: The experience of a Westra-
lian cocky who grabbed a big boomer
by the tail should be the complete answer
to those who in these pages have lately
been claiming that it’s possible to thus
hold prisoner a ’roo. The agriculturist
who tried it suffered a 24-stitch throat-
wound when the ’roo rounded on him,
claimed him with one mitt and slashed
him with the other. It could have been
expected ; after all, the ’roo is one of the
most skilful cut-and-thrust exponents
extant, and especially a wizard at in-
fighting.
He * * *
“Dicky”: It was during the Grand
Parade of Brisbane’s Royal Show, and as
the thousands of pounds’ worth of blue-
blooded horseflesh, bedecked and
dazzling, danced and pranced before us
the cove with the big hat looked at the
spectacle sadly, shook his head and said
mournfully: “Trouble is, it ain’t fully
representative. Should be a class for a
rabbiter’s ’orses.” He reflected a moment,
and added: “Got a coupla beauts at
home that’d win in any company! ”
* X 4 *
“L.E.W.”: Surely that tortoiseshell
fummy mentioned here by “Lilydale” as
having survived the trip from the U.S.
to Australia in a crate with only grease
to eat was misnamed when they dubbed
“him” Henry. All tortoiseshells are
females.
* * * *
“Burra Mallim”: One or two more
for the roll of dogs on active service:
On 458 Squadron, R.A.A.F., we had two
nondescript mongs which survived the
vicissitudes of squadron life from Malta
through the M.E. to Tunisia. Both dogs
wore identity-disks, but there the simi-
larity ended. Mark 1 was a small dog
rejoicing in the name of Maleesh, whose
tail used to wag his body ; he was a
veteran of many night torpedo- and
bombing-missions and was a very well-
behaved member of the crew. He was
in the Sicilian invasion, and rests with
SONNET FOR ANCESTORS
Who left the gentle joys of hearth and
home
And built, by bullock-bell and hobble-
chain,
Another hearth for you and those to
come,
Beneath strange stars upon this endless
plain ;
Who gave the land and this, the better
thing,
The love of sheep and soil, through farm-
ing blood ;
I owe you much. Because of you, l sing
And catch my mare, finding the morning
good ;
The day is clear, the windy air is sweet
With scent of purple peas, and plovers
run
With trailing wings before my horse’s
feet;
I count my flock, all golden in the sun.
Though time, and the space of sciences
divide,
Yet still, good sirs, / thank you as l ride.
N.s.w.
ANNE BELL.


TAk£
anything
eLBCT(Z‘CAL AS
PART-
MAP AM, ANP
uer you HAve
rne rv-ser
ON cASy T£ZM&
AS Stf€lL/'
.If
¥ ¥
/dm* *
4 (r' --
'AwyTHNG y"
'PuSCTRSC^y
OomS on
gOLSHP Trtc.
Sack/'
(jJhat A6OUT lotting os
~w. y/'Sers
VorTWAt?" -


his owner and crew-mates somewhere off
Sardinia. Mark 2 was a huge, shaggy
fellow about the size of a small Shetland
pony, or appeared to be the only time
I flew with him. He was called Hercules,
after our new engines. When he was
grounded from operations through over-
size and exuberance he used to farewell
us from the ’drome and then wait any-
thing from eight to 12 hours for our
return, whereupon we received a riotously
joyful welcome from him. On a dif-
ferent kind of craft the present hairy
object of our affections is a Border Collie
who has never seen a sheep, having been
aboard this ship since puppyhood, and
who is now a veteran mariner to whom
the only mystery of the deep is his in-
ability to bury bones in the steel decks
under the winches.
* * * *
“Old Mac.”: Touching on the use of
local timber for conductors’ batons, I
have seen many specimens of ringed-
gidgee and other dry-belt timbers such
as mulga, myall, brigalow, dead-finish,
rosewood, etc., used for batons, stock-
whip-handles and walking-sticks, and
greatly prized for their beautiful grain.
Among treasured batons that often
appeared in public at N.Q. eisteddfods
when the population of “The Towers”
held many Taffies and Cousin Jacks
were several choice specimens of local
timber. One beauty 1 recall was a con-
ductor’s presentation-trophy with trans-
lucent amber rings of sandalwood, and
knob, band and ferrule of Towers gold.
* * * *
“Spin”: Before the war, eggs exported
to England from W.A. had to be washed.
Now, washed eggs aren’t accepted for
export, and the British Egg Board is
campaigning to educate growers in the
U.K. to avoid the use of moisture—even
a suspicion of dampness—on their eggs.
Retailers want clean googs, but they’d
sooner have dirty ones than washed ones.
Reason is that washed eggs go bad—
there’s a bloom on a fresh-laid egg which
prevents the entry of bacteria. Pre-
sumably this bloom is also present on the
eggs of wild birds. What is its primary
purpose—to protect the first-laid eggs, or
to ensure nearly simultaneous hatching?
/”\ver the past decade a previous
decline in Queensland’s abo. popula-
tion has not only been arrested but a
steady increase is being recorded. Native
Affairs and Health Departments claim
all the credit, but I’ll nominate child-
endowment for part-responsibility. For-
merly Mary never got any spending-
silver, and every child meant just one
more mouth to feed. Today piccaninnies
are seldom neglected and abo. birth-
control seems rare. This means a tidy
monthly cheque for most of the gins,
and there’s no race on earth which enjoys
a spending-spree more than the original
Aussies.—“Wu Foo.”
* * * *
“Bettibei”: A clutch of turtle (o.r,
more correctly, freshwater-tortoise) eggs
has hatched-out after a 16-month incu-
bation period on a Goondiwindi (Q.)
sheep-station. For nearly a year after
the eggs were laid the district was in
the grip of a drought, so possibly the
delayed-action hatching w'as Nature's way
of protecting the young, for they’d have
had Buckley’s chance of digging their
way to the surface through a foot of
iron-hard black soil. When they did
surface, the florimsized youngsters made
a beeline for the creek, taking over an
hour for the 20yds. trip.
* * * ■ *
“Jarrah-jerker”: Tell “Sevenelms” (B.
6/8/’5B) that in many trees of the
Northern Hemisphere the sap docs go
down in winter. Otherwise it would
freeze inside the wood, and, since ice
crystallises into a greater bulk than the
original water, it would shatter the tree,
just as happens' with waterlogged rock
in the same regions. In a mild climate
like Australia's the sap-urge, up or down,
would not be particularly noticeable,
though it may operate. It certainly does
with the four large grapevines that
occupy my Perth quarter-acre. Delay in
pruning will inevitably lead to a belatedly-
cut shoot “bleeding” for days, even
weeks, so intense is the upward flow of
the sap.
“Westral”: Can’t agree with “Seven-
elms” that a piece of wood gets all the
seasoning it is capable of in two years
of weather-seasoning, or two weeks in the
kiln. I write this on a jarrah table-top,
seasoned for three years in the drying-
shed, and more than 30 years in use.
Yet last summer, when W.A. suffered one
of the hottest and longest dry-spells on
record, that table-top, of three sections,
broke its dowelled and glued joints
sufficiently to permit a knife to be passed
between. Kiln-seasoning is quick, and
efficient enough for slapdash work, but
for first-class* panelling or furniture I
would go to the stack which has stood
under open sheds for a couple of years
at the least.
* * * *
“Bass”: A big mining company has
taken an option to prospect for bauxite
in W.A. over an area of 6250 square-
miles, which takes in the Darling Range
from about 50 miles north
“to about 150 miles south of Perth. They’ll
find bauxite, all right—it’s the most
abundant of all the elements in the
earth’s crust except oxygen and silicon,
and they might even find it in commercial
quantities. A few years back some
orchardists near Kalamunda took-out
mining-rights on their properties to fore-
stall any attempt by outsiders to mine
under the trees. An assay had shown
the clay to be rich in bauxite.
* * * * ■
“Myall”: Having done the job it was
brought from Mexico to do —clean-up
cane - beetles the giant - toad (Bitfo
marinas) has “gone bush” and, like so
many other importations, become a pest.
Its area of operations now spreads from
N.Q., where it was first introduced, down
to the N.S.W. border, and it constitutes
a major threat to the honey-industry.
Bufo has taken to snapping-up bees re-
turning to the hive laden with nectar.
Apiarists are setting hives on 3ft. posts,
and as an extra precaution 4in.-mesh
wire-netting is tacked around them. The
toad is regarded as harmless to humans,
but if attacked it exudes a pinkish, cream-
like -venom from glands on the back.
Many cats and dogs have been poisoned
by licking this venom from the creatures
while “nosing” about them. Also, ponds
and dams have been contaminated by
this venom, fish and tortoises being
destroyed, and, as further proof of the
venom’s potency, rock-pythons and
taipans have been poisoned while trying
to swallow the toads.
ALTITUDE
On the summit of Olympus
When the day was nearly done
Zeus sat down with his fellows
To enjoy the westering sun;
They sat and drank their nectar
And watched Bathyrus gleam
As the golden light of afternoon
Flashed silver from the stream.
The day we boiled the billy
On the top of Little Joe
The sunlight was reflected
From the Yarra far below';
And no fat Melbourne bookie
Would have cared to lay the odds
That we three rough bushwhackers
Weren’t as wise as those Greek gods.
VICTORIA.
JACK HYETT.


Claimed to have been the oldest tigress
in captivity, Kitty, a Bengal breed,
has died at Wellington (N.Z.) Zoo, having
been presented to it in 1919 by Edward,
Prince of Wales. During her lifetime she
bore 28 cubs; some are in Sydney,
Melbourne, Perth and Adelaide zoos. If
it isn’t infringing The Bulletin’s
chivalrous reticence about ladies’ ages,
she was 44.—• “0.W.W.”
He ❖ * ❖
“Myall”: Installed at Moorlands Stud
on Rosalie Plains, near Oakey (Q.), with
pomp and circumstance befitting his im-
pressive blue-blood lineage is Vern Ivan,
who, weighing the bare 401 b. short of
a ton, notched the highest price ever paid
for a Hereford bull in Australia —£15,000.
Bred by Captain R. S. de Quinsey at the
Vern Stud in England, Ivan has an
imposing show-record in the two
Americas as well as in his native land.
A syndicate of three Hereford stud-
breeders bought him.
i)e * ~ * *
“Villefair”: Some months ago I
described here, and sought identification
of, a strange beetle-like wog with a
perfect cross of St. Andrew marked on
its back. The silence of scribes indicated
that none knew it. I’d almost forgotten
the creature ; then, on “Open Day” at
Sydney University, I saw a mounted
specimen in a showcase. Inquiries
brought the information that it is of the
bug family, Hemiptera to entomologists,
“sucking-bug” to the lower-brows, be-
cause it burrows into and sucks nutriment
from growing vegetables. The wog is,
it seems, fairly common.
* * $ *
“Amdee”: Near-perfection in camou-
flage can be seen in small fish that fre-
quent shallow waters around Barrier
Reef islands. Wind and tides carry
fallen leaves from mangrove-trees into
shallow water. They are bright-yellow,
brown or green. Walk slowly through
the shallows on a sunny day and you
will get a fleeting glimpse of a golden-
yellow shape as it darts away from the
cluster of leaves and makes for deeper
water. Follow it carefully and you will
see just a yellow leaf drifting by flat on
the surface. Stoop to pick it up and
it’s away at speed, swimming aslant,
then vertically, with an erratic, weaving
motion. Other fish of this species can
be seen as brown, dead leaves ; I have
yet to see a “green-leaf” one.
♦ * * *
“Tasaust” (Canada): A leading Toronto
paper laments the lack of a local monster :
The Australians have a thorough-
going attitude. Thus, in resurrecting the
Tasmanian Devil, they gave it its classic
name of Thylacine, fittingly significant and
mysterious for a Tasmanian wolf which is
not a wolf at all but a marsupial. And,
as if a pouched wolf were not sufficiently
novel, the Thylacine has the speed of the
wind, and for all we know breaks the
sanity as well as the sound barriers. But
for all his velocity, Thylacine is pursued
by one even swifter than he, the dingo, a
wild-dog which doesn’t bark, somewhat
reminiscent of Thorne Smith’s blood-
hound, which had no sense of smell. Thus
even when their prodigies are indigenous,
steps are taken to make them fabulous.
This is genius of a high order.
Fabulous indeed! We hopefully await
the bun yip.
* * * *
“Spin”: Four nalive-cats, chudiches,
have recently been caught near a Wes-
tralian country town. This carnivorous
marsupial has one of the finest and
prettiest pelts in the bush, and it's as game
as Ned Kelly ; but, while it's lovely, it’s
unlovable, vile-tempered and filthy. I
wouldn't care to name anything within
reason that it wouldn’t kill and eat, and
before white settlement it probably lived
on other small marsupials, birds and
! sects (a settler told John Gilbert, who
Ilected for Gould, that he’d found one
ith its stomach Completely filled with
rmites). Despite its vile temper it lived
colonies; 1 recall a hollow tree at
oolup from which nearly 100 native-
ts were killed after being driven out
ith fire. That’s an indication of how
jmerous they’must have been before the
'st settlers began trapping them, as much
>r their fowlhouse activities as for their
dts. At the time we destroyed that nest
iey were classed as scarce. Now they’re
a the verge of extinction.
*■* * *
“Sanasi": From fatal snakebite Nature
rotects many creatures in many ways,
ich as giving them scaly or leathery
ides, tough legs and thick masses of
lathers. Wild pigs aren’t frightened of
takes. 1 have witnessed a fight between
Papuan homo (that’s what we called
le pigs there) and a 7ft. black-snake ;
te schwein just waded in, savaged the
nake, tossed it about, gored it and
nished-up by trampling it to death. For
tany years the wild pigs of India have
>een recognised as great snake-killers,
ot being scared of even the cobra. If
pig is bitten by a snake the sub-
utaneous layer of fat, having no blood-
essels, does not allow the venom to
pread —that is the pig’s secret defence.
# * * *
riABBANiYAH air-station in Iraq, under
the command of Aussie Group-
captain Hugh Edwards, V.C., is a
European oasis set in a rocky, desolate
errain. The main landing-strip for the
jigger stuff, Hastings and the like, is
;ome miles from the main station, and
he ensuing bus-ride through the parched,
:raggy sandhills affords the traveller little
Measure after the previous eight hours
n the air from Pakistan.
Then suddenly there comes into view
m unexpected rural scene. Tall trees,
ibundant greenery and a noticeably
noisy bird-life. Inside the main gate
Lhe vastness of this air-station in the
wilderness is further expressed by a
many-armed signpost pointing to a
metropolis of streets and walks. A fleet
of modern taxis stands by to whisk the
traveller to remoter parts of the settle-
ment.
After a tour through well-built roads,
tree-lined and Englishly nostalgic, it is
hard to conceive that each tree, shrub
and plant, together with its matching
bird-life, was air-lifted from England.
Lifeline of this luxurious oasis is the
nearby Euphrates, from which water is
pumped nightly into selected sections of
the thirsty flora.
The superb accommodation, shopping-
bazaars and convivial messes make the
sojourner’s stay delightful, and there is
no need—or, for that matter, no desire —
to visit Baghdad some 50 miles to the
north.
Diversions for the station’s 1500 in-
habitants are numerous, ranging from a
swim in the well-appointed pool to hunt-
ing with the club, complete with beagles
—supposedly the only English hunt-club
registered outside the Old Dart. —“Ercy.”
MUSHROOMING
When lambs and mushrooms come to-
gether,
Springing up in wintry weather,
Starring paddocks newly green,
Unwatched, the children frisk between'
The la?nbs and tired ewes, and pass
Earnestly hunting for mushroom rings
In the sodden tangle of summer grass.
On a day when a thousand green birds
swing
From heavy blossom at hidden sweets,
They laugh to each other in tones as gay
As the flower-loving parrakeets.
Will she remember some autumn day,
When apples are gone and a cold sun
shines
And wind runs golden across the vines,
Clasping the hand of a little brother
When lambs and mushrooms come to-
gether?
S.A.
IRENE GOUGH.


ALASTAIR W. MACDONALD
(MEMBER OF THE SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney Telephone BL 1504-5
J. T. HARRY & DIXON
(Eric E. Dixon, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
113 Pitt St., Telephone: BL 1987
Sydney Tel. Add.: “Harry Stock Exchange,” Sydne;
Business, Robbery, Etc.
'WALES ISSUE AND SURVEY
peculation continues as to
the more specific reasons
for the coming one-for-four
issue from the Bank of New
South Wales, full details of
which are not yet available.
Whatever the particular
purposes of the issue, the
’Wales in its latest “Review”
discusses financial develop
ments in and around the bank-
ing highways and byways which
indicate that the scope for
banks (outside banking in its
strict sense) and other financial
institutions is broadening ; or,
rather, that restriction of
operations at the banking end
is forcing financial activity out
through other avenues.
The ’Wales points-out that
diversification and expansion of
Australian secondary industry
cannot all be financed by over-
draft under restrictive condi-
tions imposed by central-bank
policy, and companies have
been forced to raise more
capital or to borrow on fixed
terms, from other sources.
“In the circumstances,” says
the bank, x “large institutional
collectors of savings, such as
life-assurance companies and
superannuation funds, have
been presented with new
avenues of investment in
industrial enterprises, but
borrowers have been faced with
a more rigid and generally
higher cost-structure of debt.”
Banks and H.-p,
The central bank’s embargo
on additional bank-lending ro
hire-purchase companies in
1955 sent the h.-p. cos. direct
to the public seeking note-
money at rates of interest which
“made a mockery of the con-
trolled interest-rates allowed
in the banking system and also
the ruling yields on bonds
supported bv the authorities.”
The success of these h.-p
issues brought other types of
corporate borrowers into the
market, especially as interest
paid was a deductible expense
for taxation purposes—unlike
dividends.
Since 1954-55 issues of share-
capital by companies have
shown a fall, while note- and
debenture-issues have exhibited
a steep rise.
Share- and security-issues by
“Well, Mr. Delaney, I've got to go to a fancy-dress
ball as soon as I knock-off.”
all companies over the past
decade have doubled, says the
’Wales. And for a variety of
reasons “higher i n c o m e
throughout the community
forms the basis for larger and
more general individual saving
available for investment; a
heightened consciousness of the
prospects of industrial expan-
sion has stimulated Stock Ex-
change investment ; publication
of competitive rates of interest
has induced a frank valuation
of the possible different yields
on savings invested in alter-
native forms, and in conse-
quence a larger proportion of
savings has been diverted from
bank-deposits to more direct
investment. A decisive factor
has been the restriction of
bank-lending for capital pur-
poses which forced companies
to make share-issues and nego-
tiate fixed loans from insurance
companies to finance capital-
expansion.”
Specialised Finance
The ’Wales goes on to
observe that out of this situ-
ation a range of specialised
financial services has evolved
and is still in course of further
development. Leading stock-
brokers have established “exten-
sive and resilient” underwriting
services for new issues, with a
network of investment com-
panies and other financial
institutions as sub-underwriters.
Insurance cos. have tended to
switch away from Government
securities and mortgages in
favor of industrial shares and
loans to industry (ord. and
pref. shares acquired by them
over the past decade is esti-
mated at £5O million]. Unit-
trusts, too, “have even more
directly mobilised the savings
of persons of moderate means
for investment in equity
shares” —to the tune of over
£3O million. “Institutional
buying of this nature has
imparted a degree of stability
to the sharemarket which, no
doubt, has made it a less-intimi-
dating avenue of investment for
the inexperienced individual.”
Seasonal Influences
After noting that various
enterprises, some with overseas
associations, are setting-out
specifically to assist in the
financing of industrial develop-
ment and in other cases to pro-
vide facilities for short-term
and seasonal investment of
surplus funds, the ‘Wales goes
on: “With the evolution of
the short - term investment
market, which is gradually
taking place at present, and
with the reduced role of
trading-bank lending in the
capital-structure, the impact of
these seasonal fluctuations
[tax-collections in the final
quarter of the financial year,
Treasury-bill finance over July-
March pending flotation of
Government loans for public
works, and the seasonal pattern
of rural-production finance]
will come to be felt more
strongly by the general financial
community unless the financ-
ing of the basic elements of
seasonality, the Government
deficit and rural marketing
advances is al<;o brought into
and serviced by that short-term
market.”
The Bank of N.S.W. con-
cludes: “Developments of this
nature are for the future, but
they are implicit in the expan-
sion and specialisation of a
capital-market. They will in-
volve a reduction in the role
of the trading-banks in the
wider financial structure if
their operations continue to
be closely controlled, for, just
as the growth of public capital-
issues by companies has re-
duced the relative importance
of bank-lending in industrial
expansion, so will the evolution
of a short-term money-market
reduce the attractiveness of
bank fixed-deposits if the
general pattern of bank interest-
rates continues to be restrained
below market levels. But at
the same time the growth of
a wider and more active open
market for industrial finance,
for Government borrowing,
and for short-term investment
will reduce the scope of
arbitrary official controls over
the financial structure and will
bring official actions and
policies more directly under the


Nothing can equal
A Government - Guaranteed
investment for
Complete Security!
GOVERNMENT- GUARANTEED
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
5'A% LOAN
For
5, 10 or 20 YEARS
Principal and interest are guaranteed by the
New South Wales Government, and secured
on the Boar d's income, estimated a f
£13,900,000 for 1958/9. Assets exceed
£135,000,000. An Authorised Trustee
Investment.
Holders in Loan No. 43 maturing 15th October. 1958, are
invited to convert to this Loan. Those who convert gain
continuity of interest payments and earn a higher rate from
15th October, 1958.
Cash and Conversion applications may be lodged with any
office of the Commonwealth Trading Bank. Australia and
New Zealand Bank Limited, Bank of New South Wales, The
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited; Members
of Stock Exchanges, or the Sydney Water Board.
SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
NO IV OPEN!
Underwritten by
Ernest L. Davis & Co., Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
J. H. Clack & Co., Members of The Newcastle Stock Exchange.
MW87.58
impartial discipline of economic
realities.”
Worsted Industries, Ltd.
TyRECTORS of Worsted In-
-L' dustries, Ltd., of Sydney,
recommend an offer by A. T. G.
(Holdings) Pty., Ltd., and
Barsel Investments Pty., Ltd.,
with other interested parties to
acquire not less than 160,000
of the issued 240,000 fully-paid
ss. shares in Worsted Industries.
Worsted Industries was
floated in 1951 at the height
of the textile boom, and has
been in trouble ever since.
Holders of less than 200
shares in Worsted Industries
have the option (a) of retain-
ing the whole of their share-
holding ; ( b ) selling all their
shares at 2s. 9d. a share ; or
(c) selling any proportion of
their holding at 2s. 9d. a share.
Holders of 200 or more
shares may sell up to 85 pc.
of their shares at 2s. 9d.
In the event of acceptance
in respect of more than 130,000
shares but fewer than 160,000
the purchasers may at their
option cancel the offer.
In view of the fact
that, should the deal come
off, many existing share-
holders will still be owners
of 15 p.c. or more of their
present holding, it is of
interest to note that the pur-
chasers propose that Worsted
Industries should become a
holding-co. with an interest ol
55 p.c. in the capital of Credit
Purchase Corporation, formed
in 1954 and possessing a paid
capital of £184,900, but still not
listed on any Stock Exchange.
Credit Purchase Corp. had out-
standings of £1,042,557 at June
30 last and claimed a profit of
£59,631 (before tax) for the
year. Its debentures and term-
deposits totalled £776,096.
Worsted Industries, Ltd., has
considerable accumulated
losses, as well as £25,000 in
cash, representing about 2s. Id.
a share.
If take-over companies
acquire 160,000 W.I. shares
they will be called-on to pay-
out £22,000 at 2s. 9d. per share
taken-over.
It is not stated in the offer
who are the owners of the 55
p.c. of Credit Purchase shares
proposed to be acquired by
Worsted Industries in its new
role as a holding-co., or ex-
plained how a company with
liquid assets of £25,000 will
acquire 55 p.c. of the capital of
a co. with a share-register total
of £184,900 and which pro-
poses to pay 15 p.c. dividends
each year.
An explanation of these
things might have hastened
shareholders in Worsted In-
dustries in making up their
minds about the offer. As it is,
they have been given only 14
days from the date of the
circular in which to decide.
Into the “Never-Never”
'T'he Midland Bank, for
• A which Reginald McKenna
used to be the somewhat con-
troversial spokesman, has
started something in the U.K.
with its “up to £500” personal
loans f ‘at 5 p.c.” without
security. The cheap-money
advocates mainly the dirt-
cheap advocates —have rushed
in to demand the same sort
of thing in Australia. It tran-
spires that the 5 p.c. is a flat-
rate charge on a reducing
balance, and is more like 10
p.c. in the long-run than 5 p.c.
In Australia personal loans
are often granted, but not
advertised, on no security other
than standing and character of
the borrower, at rates between
5 p.c. and 6 p.c.
In the United Kingdom the
Midland’s action has been
followed by other banks, and
retailers have offered as low as
3d p.c. (flat-rate) terms to their
time-payment customers. Some
have offered terms without
interest, no doubt depending
on a big mark-up in their
particular line of goods to
cover the cost of finance. Such
concerns would probably have
welcomed permission to cut
the prices of proprietary lines
previously, but may find that
“costless credit” is actually a
better way of attracting busi-
ness and avoiding price-cutting.
Business in Britain apparently
is on the slow side just now,
and consumer-credit in larger
doses seems to have the general
approval of the banking-system.
' Hire-purchase in the U.K. is
used on a restricted scale com-
pared with Australian experi-
ence. The Capital Issues Com-
mittee up till recently has
barred finance-companies from
raising fresh capital in the open
market, and the link-up of the
banks with such h.-p. com-
panies as exist (headed by
Barclays a few weeks ago)
seemed bound to come.
Now the British banking-
system as a whole seems
determined to squat in the
“Never-never” country in a big
way. In this it is probably
influenced by the experience
of Australian banks, as U.K.
central-banking policy appears
to have taken a cue from the
practice of using “special
accounts” to draw-off “surplus
investible funds” of the trading-


r
HO SINGLE BUM CAN MATCH IT!
RED JACK RUM
o
mm
BLENDED FROM QUEENSLAND’S
CHOICEST 7-YEAR-OLD
POT-STILL RUMS. NO “SINGLE”
RUM CAN MATCH IT
Specially blended by
John Dewar & Sons Ltd-.. Sydney and
Harboule Brown & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney
♦
r
DWB7
WOOL FUTURES
TO SELL OR WITHDRAW?
(By Clive Hall, of Clive Hall Pty., Ltd., Sydney)
HThe current w r ool-selling
season having opened at
lower levels, it is possible that
some growers will not care for
the prices offered at the auctions
and will contemplate withdraw-
ing their clip, or perhaps placing
a high reserve on it for when
it comes up in their own centre,
and, should it not reach that
reserve, instruct their brokers
to pass-in the wool.
Now, when a grower either
withdraws or passes-in his wool
he is speculating on values
being higher at some later date.
If any of us knew for sure
which way values were going,
obviously we would make a
fortune. However, it is con-
siderably disappointing to a
grower to have to work ha id
for a year and then be offered
what he considers an unsatis-
factory price for the results of
his work.
Should he withdraw or pass-
in his clip, against which he
may have received finance from
his selling-broker or bank, he
postpones its sale for some
extra time, and thereby
incurs further interest charges
on any finance he has obtained
against it, and also causes addi-
tional handling and storing in
his broker’s store. At the same
time he still doesn’t know what
his income will be when his
clip ultimately sells and also
perhaps places himself at a
disadvantage in obtaining
further finance from his sell-
ing broker or bank with which
An article on wool-futures by
Clive Hall in The Bulletin’s
wool-issue of May 28 has created
wide interest and controversy,
in the correspondence pages of
The Bulletin and elsewhere.
In this article Mr. Hall, of Clive
Hall Pty., Ltd., again explains
the workings (and uses) of the
wool-futures market, which he is
attempting to establish in
Australia, and which has become
a live subject for discussion.
to carry on the running of his
property.
As an alternative to either
withdrawing or passing-in his
clip I suggest that he meet the
market on his day of sale, even
though he may not like the
prices, and. should he think
that at some later date values
will be higher, buy 64‘s quality
greasy wool from my company.
equivalent to the value of all
or part of his clip, at a greasy
price per lb. for a deposit of
£5 per bale with a standard
bale-weight of 3001 b. net. We,
of course, hedge all transactions
on the London Wool Futures
Market.
His position then is that he
has received his income for
the year and knows where he
stands, and any surplus money-
after paying-off his debts he is
able to reinvest in his property.
For this small capital-outlay he
is able to participate, in the
benefits of any rise in the
market that may occur, and do
so any day of the week ; that
is, he does not have to wait
for some definite date as he
would if he were to re-offer his
clip, but can follow the market
and take advantage of any
price-rise by terminating his
contract, any day from
Mopday to Friday.
On the other hand, should the
market decline he is really
better off than if he had with-
drawn his wool, because he is
not paying interest charges on
a large sum of money and he
is still able to terminate his
contract if he feels there is not
any likelihood of the market
turning in his favor.
It will be necessary, of
course,-for him to pay margins
on this form of contract should
the market move against him,
and this margin will be £5 per
bale for every downward
movement of 3d. per lb.
greasy in our quotations ; in
the event of the market turning
up again in his favor he may
get this money back, but at
all times he must maintain a
minimum deposit of £5 per
bale.
Delivery of the greasy wool
is guaranteed, although it is
unlikely perhaps that any
grower will want to see the
contract right through and take
delivery, for he would then
have the difficulty of disposing
of the wool again. It is much
better for him to treat the
whole thing as a separate paper
transaction.
However, as a measure of
protection against difficulties in
obtaining the standard type,
I have included alternate good
topmaking types of 70's and
60’s quality which may be
delivered against the contract
if necessary at a premium or
a discount to be determined by
me on the first day of the
month.
To set graziers’ minds at rest
as to how I determine our daily
greasy price, it is arrived at by
taking 60 p.c. of the closing
buyers' quotations on the
London Futures Market as
published by Reuter's daily
throughout Australia. In this
way I feel that there can be
no possible suggestion that the
quotations are not genuine, for
over the past five years we have
found that, broadly speaking,
the wool and futures markets
move together up or down,
although there have been
occasions when they were out
of line, but such occasions are
only short-lived.
Public Works Outlay
Tn recent years the outlay by
A Government (State and
Federal) and local-government
authorities on public works has
represented about 45 p.c. of all
public-authority outlay on
goods and services. (That is,
excluding social-security pay-
ments, interest paid, etc.)
Figures for 1957-58 are not
yet available, but for the pre-
ceding three years the public-
works expenditure items were,
in detail:
’54-’55. ’55-"56. ’56-’57.
£mil. -£mil. £mit.
Post-office .. 26 28 30
Railwavs .. 38 38 36
Roads ’ .... 75 86 94
Other transport 23 25 26
Fuel and power 96 103 106
Water, sewerage 34 34 39
Irrigation .. 20 19 18
Land - develop-
ment .. .. 12 13 13
Schools, etc. 18 20 22
Hospitals ..15 17 19
All other ..25 28 33
382 - 411 436
Dwelling con-
struction .. 37 38 33
Less houses
built for sale -3 -5 -12
416 444 457
As against those figures (and
in addition to them) expendi-
ture on defence in 1955-56 was
£lB9 million, in 1956-57 £lB3
million. In the past term (for
which total public-works outlay
was £463 million, of which
details are not yet available)
outlay on defence was £172
million.
In the field of public works,
it will be seen that the largest
single item represents outlay to
increase the production of fuel
and power, which accounted for
23 p.c. of total expenditure
over the three years analysed.
Helped along by the Snowy
Mountains project, it has
recently been averaging about
£lOO million a year. Outlay on
roads is now running it a close
second.
By comparison with public-
works and defence expenditure,
in 1956-57 private expenditure
on capital-equipment ran to
£948 million, and in 1957-58
to £lOl9 million.




Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1812.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire anrl Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in an Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON, Manager.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
pianist hard labor. The young
Yehudi Menuhin must have
made a similar impression
when, at the age of 16, he
was the rage of Europe.
Whatever deepening takes
place in the mature art Baren-
Barenboim in Brisbane
Young concert pianists
usually run the risk of being
thought oddities, and their
audiences come as much to
Watch the flying fingers as to
listen to music. In Brisbane,
Daniel Barenboim played to
large audiences which came to
wonder that such young fingers
could play with such power.
What was more amazing was
that one small head could
carry a grasp of music that
usually belongs to the pro-
grammes of the older masters
of the piano.
His all-Beethoven recital
began with the Moonlight
Sonata, and ended with the
Hammerclavier, the most com-
plex of them all. No one has
played the Hammerclavier
hereabouts for a long time.
Few pianists trust themselves
to maintain its immense range
of moods, and not many audi-
ences can cope with its great
length. But it is Beethoven at
his greatest, with moments of
great loneliness, savage fits of
energy, a profoundly moving
slow movement, and a final
fugue that drives along with
seldom-checked fury.
Barenboim succeeds where
he is most audacious. Some of
the lilting ease of the second
movement of the Moonlight
Sonata eluded him, but the
Hammerclavier was majestic in
all its changing passions. To
say that someone of 15 can be
80 commanding Is to say he
has genius, and one of the ways
of genius is to grasp intuitively
what might cost an ordinary
“Would you consider it bold and unseemly if I kissed
your hand, Miss Wodger?”
boim displayed in the Hammer-
clavier Sonata can only be
watched with wonder.
With the Queensland Orches-
tra under Rudolf Pekarek, he
played the Brahms First Piano
Concerto. Here again was
power that could make mean-
ingful the physically demand-
ing piano part. Some of the
serenity of the slow movement
was missing, as though Baren-
boim’s fingers were itching to
get on with the high spirits of
the finale. The orchestra could
well have had twice as many
players for the slashing chords
of the opening bars, where
Brahms makes the strings work
too hard to create the almost
strident urgency of the music.
Elsewhere the high seriousness
of the piece was ably kept.
The concerto was set in a
nicely balanced programme.
Mozart’s “Titus” Overture
came first, and Beethoven’s
Seventh Symphony followed
the concerto, carrying on its
buoyant energy, but this time
with a rhythmic exultation that
made one believe for a moment
the old legend that Beethoven
was inebriated when he wrote
it. Whatever the truth of the
legend, this performance was
not without its heady moments,
and rounded-off a lively
concert.
D. J. M.
❖ *l*
“The Yellow Swedish
Label”
Australian drama has been
singularly lacking in pure
comedy, and any serious effort
to open-up practically un-
explored literary territory is to
be commended. Desmond
Warwick How a r d’s “The
Yellow Label,” presented by
the Academy of Theatre Arts
at Perth Capitol, is not self-
consciously Australian, nor
does it depend for laughs on
slang or deliberately idiomatic
speech. Set in Perth’s most
respectable suburb, the scene
could doubtless be credited to
some other city ; but not with-
out losing its tinge of suburb-
anite.
Married for 26 years, Walter
and Agnes Scobie are bored.
Walter collects matchbox-
labels in between running a
hardware business and being
harassed by Agnes. Agnes
dotes on pets, which include
canaries and goldfish (much to
the fore amid masses of pot-
plants kept in the lounge), as
well as a cat out on the tiles,
and spends what time is left on
nagging Walter and on “good
causes.” The current objective
is prohibition, personified by
Mr. Klugg, a seedy and un-
pleasant hypocrite, whose
charming teenage daughter,
Harriet, is in love with the
Scobie’s priggish son, Graham,
whose hobby is high-minded
photography.
Harriet, sorry for Walter,
brings him a copy of a phil-
lumenists’ journal. A new
world opens for Walter, especi-
ally when he sees that £15,000
is offered for a rare Swedish
label. Then, in a violent tiff,
Agnes hurls half his collection
at him and this gem turns up.
While Walter av/aits a letter
answering his offer of sale,
Harriet practises her wiles on
Graham, even to the extent of
posing in the altogether for his
intellectual photographs.
Agnes, more acid than ever,
sneers that if Walter can dis-
credit Klugg, she will become
his devoted slave. Exasperated
beyond reason, Walter attacks
Klugg, and the bottle in his
hip-pocket is disclosed. The
last act is a transformation:
modern furniture, pets ban-
ished, a meek wife, a pompous
husband. Diversion arrives
with the minion of some
Middle East potentate, a bidder
for the label, who knows some-
thing about everything and
whose Eastern attitudes,
including his photographs,
cause considerable disturbance.
Next the aristocratic buyer
from Britain turns up, having
flown out. The cat comes
home. Girl gets boy. Walter
and Agnes declare a truce.
Farce is avoided, but satire,
though present, is not suffi-
ciently conscious to lift “The
Yellow Label” to the level of
a comedy eff manners. There
could be a considerable gain


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
£
. . HI T HT
WEARS A
NEO-
HAKREKE
.Vo Pads —
iVo Springs
The nbo - BAR-
Ri-RR acts like
a hand when
placed flat upou
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in ail movements, control
vout hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced bv
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
B'rife todav lor Free Literature
Rarrere liistr'hutinn Conipnnv
Dept. 3tJ. 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
m
r^h
a*..
Best
Mineral
Supplement
For all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over 65%
tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed minimum of
30% phosphoric acid and 40% lime. Because there
is little protein and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do
not pay for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes the
really palatable and wholesome lick.
Tri-Cal-Os
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% Tii-c*lc>c
*Dhi’€a£.(M*
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied —
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O. Box 3583,
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Box 590, NEWCASTLE
• G.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
Box 712 F, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Box 758 K,
BRISBANE • G.P.O. Box H5BB, PERTH
• G.P.O. Box 533, LAUNCESTON.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
in that direction if the satirical
quality were more fully
developed, with judicious cut-
ting, and more “business” and
individual character-drawing.
The play was well produced
by Colm O'Doherty, though
the four main roles were played
too straight in contrast to the
comics. Margaret Ford and
Ken Goodlet, both admirable
performers, gave subtly amus-
ing reality to Agnes and
Walter. Peter Mann played
Mr. Klugg, Val Vicary made
an attractive Harriet, and Peter
Julian was sufficiently stiff as
Graham. Noel Purves, as Mr.
Ghounari, and Tristam Will-
cox, as Lord Bi 11 iga n,
completed the cast.
H. D. B.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ *i*
“High Tor”
The W.E.A. Attic Theatre
(Sydney) should have chosen
a play better suited to the
conditions they have to work
under. Maxwell Anderson’s
fantasy on the American
Dream (individual freedom) v.
the American Reality (mass
corruption) involves mountain
scenery, a mechanical shovel
swinging two jrien out over a
cliff, a thunderstorm at night
and the ghosts of early Dutch
settlers.
On a curtainless stage almost
hemmed-in by the spectators,
with only a backdrop for
scenery, it puts a bit too much
strain on players and audience
alike. These conditions call for
the more intimate kind of play
—one that mingles better with
its audience.
Still, having chosen its hard
row, the company hoed it with
enthusiasm and a certain
amount of ingenuity. Out-
standing workers were producer
Keith Smith, as the Gary
Cooper woodsman implacably
resisting the real-estate specu-
lat'ors who are ruining his
beloved river - mountain
country ; J. C. McFarlane, as
the caricatured shyster dangling
capitalist baits to trick the hero
out of his American Dream
life and into the jungle of
the American Reality; and John
Meaney, as the earthy member
of the Dutch-ghost team who
points-up the small-minded-
ness and unmanliness of the
corrupters.
Nado Milat painted a suit-
ably stark and suggestive set
of panels for the backdrop.
J. A.
❖ ❖ ❖
“H.M.S. Pinafore”
Gwen Gillard’s smooth pro-
duction of the Gilsullivan
opera for the Burwood (Syd-
ney) Musical Society threw-up
as sound a Dick Deadeye as
this commentator has seen on
any professional stage. Charles
Matthews drew the nautical
nark with consistency and
penetration, and the querulous
edge he gave to his baritone
admirably suited the role.
Mary Blake’s clear, rich
contralto came over best (with
excellent diction) in the mystic
duet with the captain, and in
Buttercup’s baby-farming song.
Douglas Parnell was a com-
manding Capt. Corcoran, and
he used his powerful bass-
baritone with judgment, but he
was rather stilted in dialogue.
Ross Duncan missed too much
of the comical aspects of the
Sir Joseph Porter role by fail-
ing to offset his exaggerated
haughtiness with some on-the-
side foolery.
Jack Selig, with a light and
attractive tenor, and Berenice
Marks, with a pleasing lyric
soprano, made a reasonably
good romantic team. Valerie
Ryan, as Hebe, Jim Donald, as
Bobstay, and Harold Trinder,
as the carpenter’s mate,
rounded-out a good cast.
The orchestra, under Charles
Smallwood, made a good fist of
the tuneful score and was
suitably damped-down in the
right places to give the singers
every chance.
Artbursts
Lloyd Rees
Lightness of color and
freedom of movement are two
unexpected developments in
Lloyd Rees’s exhibition at
.Sydney Macquarie Galleries.
Maybe they are just a spon-
taneous combustion; maybe
they are a result of his recent
trip abroad, for if the strange
white paintings he brought
back from Spain were not in
themselves a particularly
attractive development, they
might well have paved the W'ay
to this new freedom.
At any rate it is a most
merciful gesture from this
austere painter ; all the more
welcome in that neither “Land-
scape in Gold,” though the
colors are light and fresh, nor
“The Wave,” though the sea
moves as he has never made it
move before, have lost any-
thing of his old solidity.
It is in the smaller paintings
(which have grown a nice crop
of red spots in consequence)
that this development is most
noticeable. For the rest, though
with more daring color
throughout, he is what he
always has been: careful,
patient, sombre, obsessed with
the weight and heavy rhythms
of the earth ; not superficially
attractive, but strong, un-
compromising and individual.
A A
V V v
Pottery
An exceptionally attractive
show of pottery by David and
Hermia Boyd is at the Terry
Clune Galleries, King’s Cross.
There are salad-bowls, coffee-
sets, ashtrays, claret-jugs, pots
you cook in and then serve on
the table —all the usual utensils
except the bedroom adornments
nobody ever makes: an omis-
sion which, judging by two of
their salt-and-pepper sets, these
potters should have no hesita-
tion in attempting.
The colors arq subdued greys
and greens and blues, very quiet
and pleasant, as if they had
been based on stone and
lichen. The general effect is
of a slight, deliberate rough-
ness.
*** *** ***
Perth Painters
The “Contemporary Art
Exhibition” by the Studio
Group of Six at the Claude
Hotchin gallery in Perth had
nothing in common with what
one has come to associate with
the term. On the contrary, the
effect was curiously and satisfy-
ingly old-fashioned.
In the 54 pictures there were
only two nudes, one of which,
judging by her look of dumb
surprise and resignation, was
wondering what the devil she
was doing in that gallery. The
one portrait in conventional
style was a sound and thought-
ful study, “F/O. Phillip Martin
(Dambuster), D.F.C. and Bar,”
by Norman Aisbett. Aisbett’s
talent for portraiture is evident
in his ballet scenes, and the
slightly indicated expressions
are very effective. This is par-
ticularly noticeable in his
“Intermission,” a study of two
dancers relaxing on the floor
after having been rehearsed
to a standstill, and even in his
delightful “Study in Green,”
where one would not expect it.
Cedric Baxter showed some
interesting but curiously un-
even work some colorful
circus scenes, a pleasing
“Banana Boat,” and “Paddy,”
an excellent study of a girl


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co -operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of •
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in *
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
STOP LONELINESS!
We have the right partner for you.
Hundreds of lonely people of opposite
sex to choose from, everywhere, all
ages, nationalities, occupations, seeking
romance. Write TODAY for FREE bro-
chure No. W 45. State your age, sex,
address, etc. We reply in plain sealed
envelope. Confidential. No obligation.
MILTON’S,
Box 2871, G.P.0., Sydney.
curled in a chair, backed in
terracotta.
Most of the work shown by
Paui. Rigby was based on his
experience in the U.S.A. and
in the Republic of China,
which gave him ample scope
for his originality in expression,
He is versatile and ranges from
the broadest treatment to the
most delicate detail in a wide
variety of subjects. “Dam
Workers,” a study in youthful
fatigue, and “Canyon,” a claus-
trophobic impression of New
York buildings, were his best
samples.
Henry F. Hartrey showed a
slight but unusual watercolor
treatment of an early-morning
country scene which brought
one back for a second look,
Barry Lee has a fresh and
unusual style in half-tones,
and his “Rear Window” was
an effective contrast to his
farm scenes. Clem Ambler,
dealing mainly with sea and
country subjects, achieved his
best results with cloud and
distance, as in “Sun Showers”
(Cape Leeuwin) and “West
from the Leeuwin.”
B. R.
Films
“The Sorceress”
The central character in this
French-Swedish film (with Eng-
lish sub-titles) is a half-wild
girl who lives in the woods on
the outskirts of a far-northern
Swedish village, and who is
regarded as a witch and
ostracised by the inhabitants.
“I do hope he's not going to develop into one of those
horrible geniuses."
In the title-role is Marina
Vlady, as nifty a witch as ever
decorated any heath, blasted
or unblasted.
To the settlement comes a
young French engineer, em-
ployed by a young and some-
what gelid widow who soon
yields to his suave charm and
becomes his mistress. Then the
fascinating witch swims into his
ken, and the doings shake-
down to the orthodox triangle-
problem, which is resolved
when the village women are
incensed because the “witch”
shyly enters their church
during a service. They kick her
half to death, and a lout flings
a stone to finish her off,
Director Andre Michel has
conjured an attractive atmo-
sphere with reed-fringed lakes
and forests, but the human
activities strain at credibility.
The culminating attack on the
girl by beefy matrons caught-
up in hysterical superstition is
well conceived.
Miss Vlady captures the
charm and spirit of the modern
witch who gets around in a
jeep instead of on a broom-
stick, but the ability to suggest
that she has some truck with
the Devil evades her.~ Maurice
Ronet is the susceptible
engineer, and Nicole Corcel the
haughty employer.
At Sydney Vogue.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Sad Sack”
Jerry Lewis is the Army’s
champion dope, and the chief
cause of blood-pressure in
broken-hearted sar’-majors, in
this military opus. It is a
certainty, of course, that
despite his multiple deficiencies
he will unwittingly foil a bunch
of Moroccan rebels and earn
the gratitude of the top brass.
The comedy in which Lewis
specialises is fairly well served
with hilarious situations. David
Wayne and Joe Mantell are
his mess-buddies who con-
tinually threaten to abandon
him but who are held by a
fatal fascination to find out
what else he can possibly mess-
up ; Gene Evans is the bull-
voiced sergeant, and Peter
Lorre a comically lugubrious
rebel. They all get laughs.
At Sydney Capitol.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Bank of Australia
TNesigned partly, at least, to curb the
violent inflationary pressures built-
up by the “war-effort,” and preserved to
lend executive strength to Government
financial policy, Federal banking-legisla-
tion is a far less effective implement than
it was 10 years ago. Sidetracked by the
restrictions placed on trading-bank opera-
tions, rapidly expanding industries have
looked outside the banking-system for
their urgent capital needs, and, in doing
so, have stimulated the development of
a now fast-maturing section of the money-
market in which activities are relatively
free from Government restrictions.
Left to operate within limits deter-
mined, largely, by the central bank, the
trading-banks have sought investment
opportunities in hire-purchase and other
fields, but, on the whole, they have little
scope for profit-making on the scale
attributed to them by some critics of the
private banking-system, the investment-
appeal of bank-scrip resting, primarily,
on the high degree of security afforded
to both capital and income.
To ease the strains arising from a
contracting export-income, the central,
bank put its special-account mechanism
into reverse-gear last March, giving
bankers an opportunity to expand
advances, which, along with investments,
are the basic source of trading-bank
earnings. In total, advances rose by
£9.4 million (to £948.3 million) over the
four months to June 30, and the continua-
tion of this trend should bring some
small improvement in profits over a full
year.
Conforming to the overall pattern,
latest accounts from the 92-year-old
C.B.A. reveal a 6| p.c. (£7.2 million)
increase in advances, deposits (up £6.6
million) growing at a much slower rate
than in the preceding term:
Paid capital— 3956. 3957. 3 958.
£ £ £1
Preference .. 2,117,350 2.117,350 2,317,350
Ordinary .. 4,105,868 4,105.868 4,305,868
Rescn cs .. 3,834,998 3,848,026 3,865,613
Notes .. .. 5,3 02 5,101 5,301
Deposits, etc.* 190,841,285 205,071,777 211,686,574
Other hanks ..
Final divs. .. 247,640 247,640 247,640
201.185,33 7 23 7,424,536 222,046,516
T.iqnid assets., 60,118,851 63,319,458 65,410,510
Special deposits
central bank 26.248.000 35.148,000 29,348,000
Advances .. 309,392,210 112,548,065 119,794,079
Bank premises 5,250,084 5,606,378 6,674,537
Other assets .. 175,572 802,635 1,819,390
201,185,317 217,424.536 222,046,516
* Includes bills, provision for taxation and other
contingencies.
The ratio of advances to deposits rose
from 54.8 p.c. to 56.5 p.c., a £5.8 million
release from the special account and the
additional deposits covering the increase
in advances, a £2-million reduction in the
amount due to other banks and an extra
£2 million (mainly cash and bonds) held
in liquids.
At balance-date liquids and special
account, combined, equalled 44.7 p.c. of
deposits, as against 48 p.c. 12 months
earlier, liquids alone equalling 30 p.c.
Of the £ 1-million increase in “other
assets,” almost £400,000 relates to the
bank’s 45 p.c. shareholding in the h.-p.
financier, General Credits, Ltd., which
last term raised its paid capital to
£2,618,250 by a one-for-two par issue.
Through 759 branches and agencies
(many of them a result of post-war
expansion) the C.B.A. is active in all
Australian States and New Zealand, the
co. handling up to 12 p.c. of trading-
bank advances within the Common-
wealth. Although ord. capital has
jumped by over 100 p.c. since 1953, a
steady 10 p.c. div. has gone out in each
of the last 10 years. But the actual
return to shareholders has been less,
premiums amounting to 62y p.c. of par-
value being paid on new-issue scrip. Ord.
capital, in f.-p. 10s. ords., currently stands
at £4,105,868, a further £2,11/,350 in
£lO 4 p.c. prefs. giving a total paid capital
of £6,223,218. Marked-down well below
par on ’Change, the prefs. are a little
more attractive than the div.-rate may
suggest, pref.-shareholders participating
in new issues on an equal footing with
ord. shareholders.
Last term’s increases in advances and
bond-holdings helped to fatten gross
earnings from all sources (£7.4 million)
by £298,545, the larger investment in
General Credits lifting divs. from the
h.-p. affiliate by around £25,000, to
approximately £70,000. (General Credits
has paid a 10 p.c. div. in each of the
last four terms.) However, higher
expenses claimed all of the additional
income, and more, so that shareholders
can thank a £72,169 reduction in “income,
land and other taxes” (£726,208), rather
than any increase in operating-profits for
the minor, £4559, improvement in net
earnings:
Dividends. Written
June, Profit. Ordinaries.* Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1951.. 336.012 10 „ ~200,000 35,000 2,407,262
1952.. 340,563 10 „ ~200,000 45,000 2,418,131
1953.. 421,345 10 „ ~200,000 125,000 2,429,782
Share premiums, £750 000 .. .. 3,179,782
1954.. 500.221 10 p.c. = 268,150 135,000 3,192,159
1955.. 554,387 10 „ ~305,293 50,000 3,306,559
Share premiums, £510,000 .. .. 3,816,559
1956.. 555,708 10 p.c. = 402,575 50,000 3,834,998
1957.. 558,309 10 ~,,410,587 50,000 3,848,026
1958.. 562,808 10 „,, 410,587 50,000 3,865,613
* In addition, there has been a regular preference
dividend of 4 p.c. (£84,694) each year.
The £562,868 profit claimed by the
board was sufficient to cover the pref.
commitment and 11.6 p.c. on ord. capital,
compared with 11.5 p.c. in 1957 and
11.7 p.c. on average ord. capital in 1956,
acknowledged reserves growing by only
£17,587 after payment of unchanged pref.
and ord. divs. and the writing-down of
bank-premises by another £50,000.
At last week’s price of 18s. 6d., the
f.-p. 10s. ords. would return buyers £5
Bs. Id. p.c. from a 10 p.c. div., the prefs.
giving a yield of £5 17s. 4d. at 1365. 6d.
Book-values show a net tangible backing
of 19s. sd. for the ords. and a shade
under £47 13s. for the prefs.
Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd.
'T'he annual distribution by Cascade
Brewery Co., Ltd., has crept from
5 p.c. to 74 p.c. over the past four years,
and, with the co.’s extensive hotel-
rebuilding programme out of the way,
the capital-expenditure planned by
subsidiary cos. appears to be the only
likely impediment to a continuation of
this pleasing trend.
However, Cascade itself is merely a
property-owner and holding-co., and, as
such, fails to reveal the size of subsidiary
or consolidated profits. The scope for
further lifts in the div.-rate is, there-
fore, anything but well defined, as it
depends largely on the undisclosed
margin between subsidiary earnings and
the divs. received from subsidiary cos.
In valuing the scrip, the sharemarket
makes some allowance for the traditional
conservatism of brewers in the matter
of profits, but, on the whole, it is inclined
to take Cascade’s accounts at their face-
value, buyers offering 235. Bd. last week for
the 21s. ords. paid to 20s. At this price
the scrip would yield £6 6s. 9d. p.c. from
a 1\ p.c. distribution. Net tangibles
(parent’s accounts only) amounted to
325. 6d. at June 30 last for each £1 of
paid capital.
Back in 1922, Cascade and another
Tasmanian brewer and hotel-owner, J.
Boag and Son (1911), Ltd., passed-over
their brewing-interests to a jointly-ow'ned
concern, Tasmanian Breweries Pty., the
pty. co. surviving several difficult years
to become Tasmania’s principal brewer.
Tasmanian Breweries, which operates the
Cascade Brewery at Hobart and the
Esk Brewery at Launceston, became a
full member of the Cascade group early
last year, when the parent co. acquired
the paid capital of J. Boag and Son by
the issue of scrip to a par-value of over
£122,000 and the payment of an un-
disclosed amount in cash. The deal
raised Cascade’s paid capital to £722,804,
in 21s. ords. carrying a reserve-liability
of Is. each.
The co.’s cordial and soft-drink
business was given corporate status (as
Cascade Cordials Pty.) at the end of
1956, and, as the distribution of wines,
spirits, etc., has been in the hands of
another offshoot, Traders Pty., for many
years, fixed assets under the’ direct
ownership of the 75-year-old parent are
now limited to freehold properties (con-
sisting mainly of hotels and the Cascade
Brew'ery) and hotel equipment.
Cascade upped its div.-rate from 12
p.c. to 13| p.c. in 1949, after 11 years
at the lower figure, the rate dropping-
back to 8 p.c. in 1951, following par
(three-for-five) and bonus (two-for-three)
issues in May 1950. Shareholders missed-
out entirely in the 1952 term when the
board, unable to gain approval for a
new share-issue, was forced to fall back
on borrowed funds and trading-profits to
finance a heavy outlay on plant. Late


in 1952 the co. was permitted to issue
90,000 ords. at par, a modest 5 p.c. div.
going out in 1953 and 1954.
Production at the Hobart and
Launceston breweries was “well main-
tained” last term (to March 31 for Tas-
manian Breweries; June 30 for the
parent), while the cordial offshoot built-
up a “considerable” export-trade in fruit-
juice syrup in Malaya and Hong Kong.
All members of the group handed some-
thing over to the parent co., which cal-
culated its gross income (divs., rents,
etc.) at £173,130 (up £11,971). Operating-
expenses, excluding a practically un-
changed £13,766 provided for deprecia-
tion, climbed by .£17,561 to £65,944, but
a smaller tax-provision (down £7OOO at
£23,000) offset part of this increase and
net profit edged forward by £1383 to
£70,420:
Parent Only.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1953.. 45.141 5 p.c. = 27,373 20,768 287,328
To staff fund, £ls .. .. 287,313
Tax written back, £7186 .. .. 29 M 99
Unexplained reduction, £4lB .. 294,081
1954.. 52,511 5 p.c. = 30,000 22,511 8i0,0u2
Tax overprovided. £729 .. .. 317,384
Profit sale assets, £27,234 .. .. 344,618
Written-off freeholds, £1505 .. 343,113
Unexplained addition, £195 . . 343,308
1955.. 66,970 6 p.c. = 36,000 30,970 374,2.8
Tax overprovided, £2512 .. .. 376,790
Profit sale assets, £16,115 .. .. 392,905
Unexplained addition, £750 . . 393,655
1956.. 63,239 64 p.c. = 39,000 24,239 417,894
Tax overprov ided, £2439 . . . . 420,333
Lass adj. on formation subsid., £8448 411,885
Written-off plant, £5452 .. .. 406,433
1957.. 69,037 7 p.c. = 42.000 27,037 433.470
Tax overprovided, £3029 .. .. 436,499
Unexplained additions, net, £279 .. 436,7.8
Written-off plant, £2456 . . . . 434.322
1959.. 70,420 74 p.c. = 54,210 16,210 450,532
Raised from 7 p.c. to 7| p.c., the div.-
rate called for an extra £12,210, scrip
issued in connection with the Boag pur-
chase participating fully in divs. although
the new offshoot operated as a subsidiary
for only a portion of its financial year.
The £70,420 equalled 9.7 p.c. on the
bigger paid capital, as against 11.5 p.c.
in 1957 and 10.5, 11.2 and 7.1 p.c. back
to 1954, the amount ploughed-back
(£16,210) dropping to the lowest level
for seven years.
The accounts don’t reveal overmuch
about the group's financial position,
several of last term’s baiance-sheet move-
ments relating to inter-co. transactions.
Among these was the sale of fixed plant
at Cascade Brewery to the operating co.,
which had previously leased the plant,
portion of the £233,933 received by the
parent being used to reduce an outside
mortgage-loan by £163,000 and to repay
a £25,459 advance from Tasmanian
Breweries. Tasmanian Breweries also
paid out £114,500 for two hotels in
Hobart and Launceston, and is currently
putting £ 100,000-worth of new plant into
the Esk Brewery, while Cascade Cordials
is extending its premises “to cope with
expanding business” and J. Boag and Son
is remodelling a Launceston hotel at an
estimated cost of £25,000. With the
exception of the plant-sale these develop-
ments made little impression on the
parent’s balance-sheet.
On its own account, Cascade Brewery
Co. spent approximately £38,000 on
capital-improvements to hotels last term,
and drew on holdings of cash to the
extent of £23,785 to help finance the
outlay. Freehold properties were partially
revalued in 1950:
Parent Only.
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £600,000 £720,596 £722,804
Reserves .. .. 417,894 433,470 450,532
Mortgage, etc. .. 147,463 325,459 137,000
Owing subside. ~ 25,459 68,000
Creditors, etc. .. 64,495 32,479 30,479
Tax provision .. 337000 30,000 23,000
Final div. .. 24,000 24,000 32,526
£1,312,311 £1,634,004 £1,396,341
Freeholds .. 762,901 847,841 884,688
Plant, fittings .. 319,597 264,374 24,471
Shares, subsids.. . 57,046 423,227 428,402
Owing by subsids. 44.069 31,000
Stocks .. ~ 102,417 100
Debtors .. .. 54,910 16.963 14,135
Cash, bonds .. 54,910 37,430 13,645
£1,312,311 £1,634,004 £1,396,341
When the books closed, current liabili-
ties and provisions (£86,005) exceeded
current assets by £27,225, but the reduc-
tion in the mortgage-loan and the larger
div. suggest that group finances are far
from strained.
Perpetual Trustee Co., Ltd.
ear F.xps.,
Ended Ex- p.c. of
June, Trusts. Income. ptlists, income.
£ £ £ p.c.
1952 . 73,003,774 320,278 322.996 100.7
1953 .. 72,849,723 329,055 3x6,435 96.2
1954 .. 71 597,904 347,245 326,728 94.5
1955 .. 73,925,788 357,012 337,103 94.4
1956 .. 82,024,304 383,131 362,705 94.7
1957 . . 8.,,905,161 401,499 379,854 94.6
1958 .. 9J,j45,031 405.995 382,689 93.6
A fter two lagging laps, income again
appears to be winning the race ;
expenses rose last year by a very
moderate £2835, but receipts sprinted
along, more than propoitionateiy, by
£7496.
Naturally, the proportion of new busi-
ness to which the increased statutory
rates of 1952 are applicable has been,
and will be, growing steadily, and,
granted a continuance of the present
relative stability of the wage-spiral, some
fuither improvement seems on the cards.
The new and old charges for estate-
administration as authorised by the
N.S.W. Trustee Companies Act are set-
out below, and these represent the
unique charge made on the gross capital-
value of an estate, irrespective of its
duration:
Old Scale. New Scale.
2-1 p.c. on first £50,000 |3f p.c. on first £25,000
14 p.c. on next £50,000 | 3 p.c. on next £25,000
1 p.c. excess of £IOO,OOO | 2 p.c. on next £50,000
| 1 p.c. excess of £IOO,OOO
Speaking generally, earnings are de-
rived from (a) corpus and other com-
missions, such as the collection of rents
and other estate incomes, and (b) returns
from funds owned by the company itself,
distribution of whose portfolio is shown
in the balance-sheet:
1956. 1957. 1958.
raid capital .. £200,000 £200.000 £200,000
Reserves . . .. 509,882 509,894 512,100
Creditors, etc.* .. 18,280 40.066 64,522
Final div. .. 9,000 10,000 10,000
£737.168 £759,960 £786,622
Premises, etc. . . 324,363 320.062 329,781
Mortgages, shares.. 144,813 166,109 185,6(>2
Sundry debtors .. 1.635 2,768 3,286
Govt, securities .. 140,200 140,750 119,740
Cash, etc. .. 126,157 124,211 148,153
£737,168 £759,960 £786,622
* Includes provision for income-tax, etc.
Accounts and profits shown are for the
parent only, but the active Capital Terri-
tory offshoot, Perpetual Trustee Co.
(Canberra), Ltd., is still quite a small if
growing affair, administering trust funds
totalling almost £2} million.
Net earnings, equal to 12.1 p.c. on a
paid-up capital of £200,000, were struck
after allowing an undisclosed provision
for taxation and paring-down the corpus
commission reserved by £2lOO. While
nothing dramatic, the latest earning-rate
compares favorably with the previous
term’s 9.5 p.c. and the 10.9 p.c., 12.1 p.c.,
9.6 p.c., 5.2 p.c., and 0.3 p.c. turned-in
back to 1952:
Net To Re- Rer
June, Profit. , Dividends serves. serves.
£> £ £ £
1952 .. 086 4 „ „ 8,000 299,093
1953 .. 10,359 5J „ ~11,000 298,422
1954 . . 19,259 8 „ „ 16,000 3,259 301,681
Freeholds revalued, £195,231 .. 496,912
1955 .. 24,194 8 p.c. = 16.000 8,194 505.106
1956 .. 21,776 81 ~ ~17,000 4,776 509,882
1957 .. 19,012 91 „ ~19,000 12 509,894
To staff fund, £2OOO 507.894
1958 .. 24,206 10 p.c. = 20,000 4,206 512,100
Inflation hasn't dealt too kindly with
Perpetual Trustee, and, in real terms, the
value of trust funds held today would
hardly match-up to those of yesteryear ;
further, even apart from currency-
depreciation, current earning-rates remain
well below the normal level of 20 or
30 years ago.
The greater part of the increase in
trust funds administered over the past
three years has been due to funds held
by the company as custodian trustee for
unit-holders of Australian Fixed Trusts
Pty., Ltd. These funds now stand at
£11,507,917 out of a total of £90,545,031.
Now the biggest trustee of its kind in
the Southern Hemisphere, the Perpetual
was registered in Sydney in 1885,
originally as the Perpetual Trustee,
Executor and Agency Co. —the name was
subsequently changed to the present
style by a special Act of Parliament.
Associated with its early history were
several notables. One of the promoters
was Edmund Barton, the first Prime
Minister of the Commonwealth. J. R.
(later Sir James) Fairfax, of newspaper
renown, was its first chairman, and
supporting him as managing-director was
J. K. Street, who, through his son and
grandson, provided the eldest State with
two of its Chief Justices.
Corporate trusteeship in its infancy
was by no means overwhelmingly accept-
able to the public at large, but the Per-
petual Trustee Co. rode to victory on its
obvious advantages, summed-up as
follows by the Australian Encyclo-
pedia :
Until the middle of the nineteenth cen-
tury the care and management of trust
property was invariably left to flesh-and-
blood persons. As the office of trustee
called lor a high standard of knowledge
and integrity, but offered little, if any,
inducement in the nature of a reward, the
number of suitable trustees available in any
community was always limited. It was not
unusual for the trusted friend or relative to
prove incompetent or dishonest, with
resulting hardship to the beneficiaries.
Moreover, even the best of trustees had
to die, thereby involving the estate in the
inconvenience and expense of replacing
him.
The evolution of the public company
suggested a solution to these problems in
the form of a trust corporation, having
a staff of trained specialists to supply the
knowledge, a paid-up or guaranteed capital
to answer possible defalcations, and a
perpetual existence to obviate any necessity
for replacements. Also, although a cor-
poration in its administration of trust


ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd.. Emflaud.
The SAFE ten-per-cent
/
/
/
/
PRODUCTIONS LIMITED
£lOO,OOO
10%
CASH DEPOSITS
INVEST IN ONE OF AUSTRALIA'S MOST
RAPIDLY EXPANDING INDUSTRIES
Deposits, on the attractive terms listed below, are
invited to meet the expansion demands of Carapark
Productions Ltd.—the manufacturing and distributing
Company of the profitable Carapark Group. Deposits
rank ahead of shareholders’ capital for repayment. Full
particulars from your Broker, from any Branch of the
National Bank of Australasia in N.S.W. and Q’land —
or send coupon below.
1 YEAR
6% po.
2 YEARS
7% p«.
3 YEARS
8% P".
4 YEARS
9% po-
5 YEARS
10% M.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
CORRiE & CO.
(Members of the Brisbane
Stock Exchange)
127 Eagle Street, Brisbane
Branch Offices: Townsville,
r Surfers Paradise
CERTIFICATE OF ASSET BACKING
We hereby certify that the tan-
gible asset backing is £lB5 for
each £lOO of liabilities, including
Cash Deposits. In each of the
last 3 years, profits before tax
would cover interest payments
on Cash Deposits over 3 times.
Henson, Gates & Co.,
Public Accountants.
BANKERS TO THE COMPANY: THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
CARAPARK PRODUCTIONS LTD.
is one of the CARAPARK GROUP
To: Carapark Productions Ltd.,
681 Parramatta Rd., Leichhardt, N.S.W. Ph. LM7317.
Please send me full particulars of your 10% Cash Deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
CD-B.
property may not achieve the close
personal interest of a competent
relative, many people consider the
disadvantage of a comparatively
impersonal approach more than
offset by the advantages mentioned
above.
A feature of the Perpetual’s
attractively presented accounts
is the co.’s own strength and
solidity.
More confident in its
approach than it was a few
years ago, the sharemarket sets
655. as the current value of
the £lO shares, which are paid
to £2, the £8 uncalled liability
including £5 callable in the
event of liquidation only. Yield
is 6.1 p.c. from a 10 p.c. div.-
rate, and the investor is
covered by 715.-2 d. of net
tangibles for each 20s. of paid-
up capital. Under the terms
of the articles, no one person
can hold more than 2000 shares.
Engineering Supply Co.
TTighest marks for this year’s
performance, turned-in in
a year in which the northern
State has been racked between
falling world commodity prices
and drought.
Esca’s task was made no
easier by steeply-rising costs,
in particular the wages bill,
which was up by £20,248, and
these increases swamped the
lighter tax-burden.
Although Esca’s turnover is
closely attuned to the varying
fortunes of the Queensland
squattocracy, the 55-year-old
distributor of farm requisites
has never found itself com-
pelled to pass a dividend ; and
this time up no heartsearching
was required of the board in
its repeat sanction of the
15 p.c. dividend, still comfort-
ably covered despite the slight
shrinkage in earnings.
For the year ended June 30,
earnings balanced-out £7190
lower at £91,571, struck after
providing a £ 10,876-lower
£54,860 for company-tax and a
practically unchanged £11,617
for depreciation:
Net Re-
June Profit. , Dividends N senes.
£ £ £
’53.. 56,250 15 p.c. = 41.250 245,270
’54. .100.980 15 ~ ~41,250 305,000
Contingency reserves dis-
closed, £75,715 .. 380,715
’55.. 109,298 17J p.c. = 48,125 441,888
Unuxpl. reduction, £363 441,525
Asset revaluation, £200.000 641,525
Reg. capitalised, £137,500 504,025
’56..101,379 174 P-C. = 51,562 553,842
’57.. 98,761 15 „ „ 61,875 590,728
Staff funds tranferred to
general reserves, £25,000 615,728
’58.. 91.571 15 p.c. 61,875 645,424
The dividend-rate has averaged
p-.c. over the past decade,
during which the co.’s capital
has undergone only one altera-
tion, a one-for-two bonus-
issue in 1956, thus the effective
average return to holders of
the scrip during this time has
been nearer 16 p.c.
This year’s earning-rate on
the single-berth capital was
22.2 p.c., and this compares as
follows with rates of the pre-
vious four years on capital as
it stands today—24.4 p.c.
(1954), 26.5 p.c., 24.6 p.c. and
23.9 p.c. (1957).
From headquarters at Bris-
bane, and branches at Rock-
hampton and Townsville, Esca
trades throughout Queensland,
distributing tractors, agricul-
tural machinery, engineering
and automotive supplies, etc.
Balance-sheet comparisons
show a rock-like stability:- —
1957. 1958.
Paid capital ..£412,500 £412,500
Reserves .. 590,727 645,424
Overdraft .. 85.188 55,300
Creditors .. 94,902 110,830
Tax provision . . 60,000 58,160
Slaff funds .. 43,253 18.253
Final divs. .. 41,250 41,250
£1,333,820 £1,341,786
Freeholds .. 312,543 312,691
Furniture and
vehicles, etc... 45,436 47,762
Sto< ks . . . . 569,993 586.895
Debtors .. 340,992 329,544
Cash, bonds, etc. 64.856 64,894
£1,333,820 £ 1,341,786
A somewhat higher working-
capital of £674,835 leaves the
co. very strong in this respect ;
for each £ currently owed there
is 755. of floating assets.
Shown in the books at valua-
tion, plus additions at cost,
freeholds were revalued in
1955 by £200,000, as a pre-
liminary to the capitalisation
of £137,500 of reserves for the
bonus-issue.
Reserve-building has been
vigorous, and, in addition to the
£29,696 added from retained
earnings last term, £25,000 was
transferred from the staff-
superannuation reserve to the
credit of general reserve.
Not unduly conspicuous on
’Change, the f.-p. 20s. shares
last sold for 545., yielding on
the present basis £5 11s. Id. per
annum. Net tangible asset
backing is a solid 51s. 4d.
V
Gerrard Co. of A/asia, Ltd.
A lthough ord. shareholders
in Gerrard Co. of Aus-
tralasia are usually well down
on the list when it comes to the
dividing-up of the ample profits
won by their co., there seems
to be little reason for regarding
this rating as permanent. Never-
theless, the maintenance of the
rate of expansion displayed in
recent years could delay a more
liberal distribution for some
time, but this could, possibly,
give members further oppor-
tunities for investment; so,
one way or another, the share-
market reckons on better things
to come and prices Gerrard
f.-p. 10s. ords. at 20s. cum div.
for an effective return of only
£s 2s. 7d. p.c. on the basis
of the current 10 p.c. div.-rate.
The scrip was first listed on
the Melbourne 'Change in 1951
shortly after the formation of
Gerrard Co. of Australasia as
a holding-co. for the now-40-
year-old Gerrard organisation,
More than 60 p.c. of the
profits earned during the last
five years has been reinvested
in the business, but the swift
expansion and diversification
of the group activities have
still called for frequent injec-
tions of fresh capital. These


UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEED
g, J MB]
WALTONS-SEARS
CREDIT CORPORATION LTD;
Registered
first Mortgage
Debenture Stock
1
per annum for 6 years
Aauoui
jnoA jo|
Aauoui
ajotu 136
AWA/
4
years
7%
3
years
65%
2
years
6%
18
months
5f%
12
months
5*%
9
months
5%
6
months
4£%
3
months
3f%
I
Obtain Prospectus from any branch of:
The National Bank of Australasia ltd.
Bank of New South Wales
Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia
Any store or office of Waltons-Sears
•nd, in particular. Park and George Streets,
Sydney, MA 9273
or any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange in Australia.
Broker to the issue: J. B. WERE & SON
(Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.)
Trustee: Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd.
Broker for N.S.W.: Clarence Degenhardt &
Co., 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Address Coupon to: V
Waltons-Sears Credit Corporation Ltd.,’
Box 3875, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Name..
Address.
B/3.9 .
LINK lIP WITH REAL STRENGTH
have taken paid capital from
£420,000 to £870,000 (including
£120,000 in 5 p.c. prefs.) since
the beginning of the 1955 term,
the last £61,206 coining in on
completion of a one-for-two
par issue last July.
Earnings have responded
quickly to the employment of
additional funds and have
almost paralleled the growth
of share-capital, a 29 p.c. im-
provement last term hoisting
net profit to twice the figure
claimed in 1954.
To complete an attractive
picture, tax-paid, share-
premium and capital-reserves
figure in the balance-sheet at
£205,431, while no allowance
is made for the 25 p.c. premium
on New Zealand currency
when consolidating the
accounts of the N.Z. offshoot
with those of the Australian
subsidiaries.
Well entrenched in both
Australian and N.Z. markets
as a manufacturer of ten-
sional-strapping machines and
materials, packing - room
requisites, etc., Gerrard added
to its various activities with
the purchase of the Brisbane
chainmaker, Bennett Chain Co.
Pty., in January, 1957, and
followed this up, last term, by
taking-over Fielding Springs
Pty., a Melbourne-based spring-
manufacturer and metal-
presser.
Good export fruit-crops from
several States, a generally high
level of production in
secondary industries, and, to
a lesser extent, import-restric-
tions, all helped to swell
demand for the group-products
over the year to June 30 last,
the (undisclosed) turnover of
the Gerrard subsidiaries sur-
passing that of the previous
term. Pre-tax earnings, includ-
ing, for the first time, those
of the newest subsidiary, rose
by £54,678 to £286,112, after
allowing an extra £19,014 for
depreciation (£53,017), the tax-
provision, in line with earnings
at £114,500 (up £16,159), leav-
ing net profit £38,417 stronger
at £169,160:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends N Re-
Jne., Profit. Pref. , Ord.— N serves.*
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £
’55.. 91,890 6000 10 = 30,000 189,121
Exchange adjustment, £2400 191,521
Share-issue expenses, £966.. 190,555
’56.. 102,100 6000 10 = 35,833 250,822
Exchange adjustment, £4BOO 255,622
Share-issue expenses, £3966 251.650
Share-premiums, £52,500.. 304,156
Less increase in intangibles,
_ £38,368 265,788
Unexpl’d reduction, £4OOO 261,788
’57..130,743 6000 10 = 50,000 336,531
Share-issue expenses, £923 335,608
Exchange adjustment, £4800.. 340,408
Loss, sale assets, £5238 . . 335,170
Less added intangibles,
£40,791 294,379
’58..169,160 6000 10 = 59,375 398,164
* After deducting intangibles, £262,269
at 30/6/’5B.
Steady at 10 p.c. for the fourth
successive year, the ord. div.-
rate called for an additional
£9375 to service the larger
equity-interest, but this was
hardly a problem, as earnings,
after deducting pref. divs., were
equal to 27.4 p.c. on average
ord. capital, compared with
24.9, 26.8 and 28.6 p.c. over the
three years back to 1955. The
maintenance of pref. and ord.
div.-rates on paid capital as it
now stands would cost £78,500,
or £6OBO less than half of last
term’s showing.
The £188,794 of new share-
capital, along with undistributed
profits eased a rather tight
financial position, and the
group was able to carry
heavier stocks (up £107,096)
and book-debts (up £58,276),
outlay a substantial amount on
fixed assets and still limit the
increase in outside liabilities,
etc., to £56,548:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1957. 1958.
Pref £120,000 £120,000
Ord 500,000 688,794
Reserves .. 336,531 395,16 i
Mortgage .. 73,200 65.771
Overdraft .. 169,659 150,440
Creditors, tax pro-
vision, etc. .. 243,095 320,041
Final div. .. 25,000 31,250
£1,467,485 £1,774,460
Freeholds ~ 385,757 412,521
Plant .. .. 478,816 593,302
Shares other cos. 5,708 6.072
Stock . . . . 385.380 495.476
Debtors .. .. 208,726 267,002
Cash, bonds, etc. 98 87
£1,467,485 £1,774,460
Covering plant and freeholds
brought into the books by the
Fielding purchase, the year’s
outlay on fixed assets was in
the vicinity of £200,000, the
bulk of this amount going into
plant. Freeholds were revalued
in 1950.


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, August 25.
]>tew Zealand’s overseas
' reserves remain low. At
the end of July they amounted
to only £56 million, against
£lO3 million a year before, £95
million two years before, and
£96 million three years before.
It is obvious that the road
to recovery will be long and
uphill.
The Governor of the Reserve
Bank said recently that the
objective must be to bring
reserves to £lOO million. That,
he warned, might take several
years.
In the 12 months to July 31
there was a balance-of-pay-
ments deficit of £45.8 million,
against a surplus of £4.5 million-
the previous year.
By the end of December, it
is expected, the deficit for 12
months will be somewhere
between £55 million and £75
million. (All figures in N.Z.
currency.)
The Government is working
on an estimate of £6O million.
It has already borrowed a net
£19.5 million in London and
£8 million in Australia, a total
of £27.5 million. That leaves
£32.5 million still to be found.
The Minister of Finance, Mr.
Nordmeyer, says that £lO
million could safely come from
reserves. The remaining £22.5
million will probably have to
be borrowed.
In preparation, the Govern-
ment has introduced legislation
empowering the Reserve Bank
to pledge its gold reserves to
obtain a short-term loan.
The I.M.F. and World Bank
Impatience with the short-
sighted views of those who
are preventing N.Z. from join-
ing the I.M.F. and World
Bank is growing.
Sir Bernard Ashwin, a former
Secretary to the Treasury, said
recently that N.Z. was in an
economic mess and was not
doing the right things to get
out of it.
He recommended flexible
exchange-rates, short - term
interest-rates and prices to act
as balancing forces, supported
by Budget policies designed to
withdraw surplus purchasing-
power. He added that, to gain
time to spread the internal
adjustment to any serious fall
in export prices and lessen the
impact on the economy, N.Z.
should join, the I.M.F. That
would open the way to member-
ship of the World Bank, which
could be a useful source of
long-term finance to bridge the
gap between internal savings
and capital-expenditure on
development-works.
Sir James Fletcher, one of
N.Z.’s leading industrialists,
said the other day that member-
ship in the Bretton Woods
organisations was vital to large-
scale industrial development.
One suggestion, from the
Auckland Chamber of Com-
merce, is that the Government
should invite the chairman of
the World Bank or a senior
executive of the I.M.F. to come
to N.Z. to answer on the spot
allegations that it would be
disadvantageous to N.Z. to
join.
“International Gift-horse”
Meantime the rest of the
world, according to “Lombard”
of the “Financial Times,” is
watching with quiet amusement
as N.Z. “looks the international
gift-horse in the mouth.”
He points out that, as a
country engaged in intensive
development, N.Z. could have
qualified for loans from the
World Bank covering a sizeable
part of the foreign-exchange
cost of her capital-outlays, and,
as there would have been
correspondingly less need to
meet these requirements by
drawing on reserves and upon
general-purpose loans raised in
London during the last 10 years,
N.Z. would have been in a far
better position than she is to
deal with the backwash of the
recent severe deterioration in
current - account payments.
Also, membership would have
established for her a second
line of reserves in the shape of
drawing-rights on the World
Fund, which would have been
of inestimable value now.
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd.
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd.,
which last year paid its maiden
ordinary dividend —10 per cent,
in the form of 5| per cent,
cumulative preference shares of
£1 each, now valued by the
market at 18s. 9d. (N.Z.) is
this year paying a 5 p.c. divi-
dend by the same method. It
expects to repeat it next year,
and, thereafter, to pay all divi-
dends in cash.
The directors, in their annual
report, say that the company
has now passed the period of
special difficulties. They express
the opinion that, having regard
to the substantial nature of the
company’s activities, the con-
siderable reserves that have
been accumulated and the
heavy special - depreciation
allowances that have been
made, shareholders should
value their ordinary shares ?t
a price above, not below, par.
The £1 shares are currently
priced at about 18s. 7d. (N.Z.).
The fact is, of course, that
the price of the shares is
determined largely by the
immediate return available
from them. The present 5 p.c.
in the form of pref. shares is
nothing to get excited about.
Regular dividends now seem
assured—in cash after next year
—but the prospect of much
increase in the rate seems
limited while heavy capital-
expenditure, with depreciation
to match it, continues.
The directors do say that
special depreciation allowances
in future years will rapidly
decline. When that begins to
happen profits and dividends
can be expected to climb,
taking the value of the shares
up with them.
The great scope which exists
for improvement in profit is
c'early shown in the latest
accounts. Profit, £42,336 up at
a record £550,757, is reached
after providing £1,196,675 for
depreciation, including £507,587
special depreciation. To date
depreciation written - off
amounts to £5,144,774, includ-
ing £2,172,080 “special.”
The latest profit represents an
earning - rate of 9.2 per
cent, on ordinary capital of
£5,204,281 after pref. charges
have been met, or 5.7 per cent,
on shareholders’ funds of
£9,708,800, including £1,511,220
of pref. capital.
The directors warn share-
holders against dealing with
share-traffickers, who, they say,
have been operating in Aus-
tralia. They say that a
number of shareholders have
been encouraged to transfer
their shares to these traffickers
in exchange for securities of
questionable value in other
companies.
Breweries
A difficult problem for the
N.Z. sharemarket is the valu-
ation of N.Z. Breweries on an
ex - one - for - two scrip - issue
basis.
The deputy-chairman told the
annual meeting that he would
not attempt to prophesy what
any future dividend would be.
The first ex-issue sale was at
345., which indicates that the
market anticipates a reduction
from the present 84 p.c. rate.
At the annual meeting it was
indicated that the company
would have to approach the
Commissioner of Inland
Revenue for relief from the
excess-retention tax, which the
Government proposes to levy
if a company retains more
than 60 per cent, of its profit
after depreciation and tax.
This shows that the co.’s
earnings are enough to enable
it to pay much more than it has
been doing. On the other hand
it shows that the board desires
to retain a large proportion of
earnings for development. It
looks as if the commissioner
may have a big say in future
dividend policy.
Whatever happens, share-
holders of N.Z. Breweries have
done well out of their invest-
ment over the last five years.
The holder of 300 shares five
years ago would now hold 600
shares, and for the extra 300
he would have paid in cash £75,
or ss. each.
Incidentally, Dominion
Breweries shareholders also
are showing a nice capital-gain.
The holder of 100 shares as
at December, 1947, who exer-
cised each of his rights, to
receive issues, would by now
have increased his holding by
263 shares at a cost of £237,
or approximately 18s. a share.
The shares are currently valued
at about 80s. (All prices again
in N.Z. currency.)
Using its stabilised-wort and
continuous-fermentation pro-
cesses, rights to which have
been sold to other N.Z.
breweries as well as to breweries
in Canada, the United States
and Manila, Dominion
Breweries is said to have pro-
duced a beer comparable with
those previously imported from
England and the Continent.
The beer will soon be available
to the public, and the company
hopes to build up a substantial
export trade.
Dividend Tax
Some pertinent comment on
the proposed dividend-tax was
made by the deputy-chairman
of N.Z. Breweries, M. O.
Barnett, at the annual meeting
of N.Z. Breweries.
He pointed out that the tax
affected most shareholders
severely. It reached 4s. in the
£ when a person’s net taxable
income was only £4OO a year.
At this figure 20 p.c. of any
dividend income went in tax.
“As an example,” said Mr.
Barnett, “a married man with
an earned income of £1075 a
year and paying life-assurance
premiums of £25 a year, if
he receives any dividends, will
start by paying 20 p.c. of such
dividends in additional tax.”


Bendigo Today—
The Goldless Golden City
By BRUCE HARDING
First Australian provincial city to
enter the quest for overseas capital
is Bendigo (Vic.). Behind the City
Council’s action in sending its
engineer abroad to interest investors and
industrial magnates in Bendigo’s possi-
bilities lies the fact that this famous gold-
field is dead —and for all practical pur-
poses the “golden city” has become near
enough to goldless.
Certainly, today’s visitor will not see
any of the yellow stuff, unless a local
resident proudly displays a few specks,
carefully preserved among the family
treasures, or the visitor stops to admire
some wedding-rings in a jeweller’s
window. Nor will he see how gold is
won, for there are no wheels turning ;
no miners’ lamps burning ; no off-shift
miners yarning ; no work for the delicate
scales in offices still hopefully displaying
weathered plates bearing the legend:
Gold Buyer.
Only residue in various forms, and
deserted appurtenances, remain of the old
days. There are mountains of mullock,
gradually being whittled away and
smashed-up for road-surfacing; there
are mounds of sand from the batteries
that once hammered the ore into micro-
scopic particles; there are large areas
of grey, solidified sludge that resulted
from cyaniding and other chemical
recovery-processes. The skyline is littered
with rusting poppet-legs, straddling
gaping shafts, from the black depths of
which emerge only foul air and eeriness.
Machinery-sheds are silent and stripped
of their innards ; smashed ore-trucks lie
about; and dust-covered miners’ lamps
hang in a row of forlorn newness in an
ironmonger’s window —you have to look
hard to find more.
Bendigo’s schoolchildren, once junior
experts to a man in the mechanics of
mining, are now surrounded with mute,
uninstructive relics—so they learn the
story of their city’s gold in social-studies
lessons. Like the casual visitor, they
can only acquire further exact knowledge
from reading the gilded lettering on
Bendigo’s several commemorative monu-
ments, or fossicking with the goats
among the pepper-trees and bulrushes of
mullock- and sand-dumps.
Even the small mining museum, with
its working-models of mines and plaster-
casts of famous nuggets—like the
Dascomb (3230 z.) and the Victoria
(3400 z.) —has been shifted from the
School of Mines to make more class-
room space in that institution’s current
role of general technical college.
T3UT Bendigo is no ghost-city. Rather,
as the field’s productivity dropped,
the city’s population increased!
Between 1947 and 1954 urban Bendigo
achieved a net gain of almost 6000 to
37,000, and it is still rising. In the
surrounding agricultural area, within a
21-mile radius, live 54,681 people.
Home-building shows no outward sign
of slumping, and is still well behind
demand. In several spots neat cottages
now stand over the old shafts of well-
known mines, and the residents appear
quite content that, in the reef-area, their
freehold extends only 50ft. below the
surface.
Industrially, Bendigo has possessed
some resources for many years, notably
foundries and textile- and pottery-
factories, functioning side-by-side with
the mining. New enterprises of the gold-
less era have extended the variety to
include agricultural machinery, pre-fab.
buildings, mens’ knitted-wear, watch-
cases —and baby-carriages.
The Bendigo City Council and the
Industrial Expansion Committee (formed
to save the day when the gold began
tapering-off) are both restlessly active in
encouraging new industries to open. The
council points out that there are ample
sites ; communications with Melbourne —
100 miles south —are good ; water and
power are plentiful ; the labor-force is
increasing ; and the area’s potential is
“almost unlimited.”
These arguments will doubtless form
the backbone of the capital-scout’s case
overseas, and they will be reinforced by
the fact that not many of the world’s
commercial centres would be entirely
unaware of the city he will be trying
to sell.
A ll this change and projected change
may seem to have the effect of thrust-
ing mining further into the background,
but there still remains in Bendigo a
certain atmosphere of the old days ; an
aura of the late 19th and early 20th
centuries.
There are, for example, many firmly-
rooted echoes of the city’s former name
of Sandhurst —said to have replaced the
original Ben Digo because of the in-
fluence of Sandhurst graduates among
Imperial officers stationed there with the
garrison. Later, by an overwhelming
vote, the name reverted to Bendigo. Yet
the unwanted title is. stubbornly per-
petuated in such organisations as clubs,
garages, a brick-kiln, a road, and a foot-
ball-team.
Bendigo’s public buildings are all
massive—and all decidedly Queen Vic-
torian. Some modernity is creeping into
the main shopping-area around Pall Mall
—like the new Commonwealth Bank,
with its series of lino, wall-mosaics
depicting mining, agriculture, industry,
and a realistic gold-coach robbery. For
the most part, however, Bendigo s com-
mercial houses still reflect much of the
gold days —and there are still facilities
for tethering horses on the posts support-
ing shop-awnings.
There remain, too, Bendigo’s tradi-
tions: its justifiable retention of the time-
honored title of The Golden City ;
picturesque names, each echoing its own
fragment of local history ; names like
Jackass Flat, Kangaroo Flat, Golden
Square, Specimen Hill, California Gully,
Sailors Gully, and Maiden Gully. And
there is the amazingly tenacious way in
which Bendigonians cling 10 the nerve-
grinding, out-of-tune chimes of the post-
office clock. These tuneless crashings
boom out over the city every 15 minutes
night and day, and citizens will recall
at the drop of a hat that only for the
immortal Melba were they temporarily
silenced. It will take more than new
industries to abate this cherished public
nuisance.
Although residents of Bendigo do
realise the necessity for large-scale
change, there’s much optimism that one
day, somehow, gold will be won again.
The common assertion, especially among
older citizens, is that “There s more gold
down below than ever came out —if you
could only beat the water.”
The sculptured group perched atop the
Gold Jubilee Exhibition 1901-02 statue
in Pall Mall, seems, prophetically, to
hold a similar message. It depicts a
bearded prospector squatting down,
dispanning. His lady, clutching a decent-
sized nugget, stands behind him, watch-
ing over his shoulder, tenderly urging
him on. “This’ll pay for the groceries,”
she seems to be saying. “Now get stuck,
into it, and find me some more!”
A STRANGE CAMELLIA
Walking one wet evening
By my camellia trees,
Their buds unburst save for some frost-
fired flowers,
T saw one bud half-opening
Of a red no frost could freeze.
But then as I, approaching,
Remembered that this tree,
The end one on the left, had pure white
flowers,
A robin’s eye, awakening,
Looked from the branch at me.
S.A.
GEOFFREY DUTTON.


NOW! ALL YOUR INSURANCE NEEDS
UNDER ONE GREAT NAME!
AJILR FIRE • GENERAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.;
(AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £1,000,000)
HAS COMMENCED BUSINESS
A.M.P. Fire and General Insurance Co. Ltd. is a wholly owned subsidiary of the A.M.P. Society
with United Insurance Co. Ltd. as Managing Agents. For over 100 years Australians have
purchased life insurance from the A.M.P. Now all classes of insurance are available.
LIFE FROM THE A.M.P. SOCIETY
FIRE, ACCIDENT and GENERAL
FROM THE A.M.P. FIRE AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
m
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
PRINCIPAL BOARD:
CECIL H. HOSKINS, Chairman; S. G. ROWE, Deputy Chairman; THE HON. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.:
G. GORDON RUSSELL; C. G. CRANE; VINCENT C. FAIRFAX; GEOFFREY H. GRIMWADE.
General Manager: M. C. BUTTFIELD.
Manager for New South Wales: K. W. STEEL.
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by funds exceeding £375,000,000 which the Society seeks to Invest to the greatest benefit to members.
GISOG


S want a
shilling, too
By
DAVID CAMPBELL
I.
IT was during . the late
summer of that year that
Janet started keeping a
money-box. The money-
box was a warm red affair from
a Christmas-stocking, a letter-
box with a slot in the side and
a strip of sticking-plaster
around the top where Janet
had opened it with a tin-
opener to see how much money
she had.
“Two, four, six,” she
counted, skinning back the
plaster and herding the silver
coins into her hand, like her
father counting sheep. “That
makes six shillings in all. When
I’ve saved a pound, I’m taking
a ticket to Sydney to visit Bert
at Coogee.”
Carefully, she tossed the
shillings up and down in her
palm so that they glinted white
in the sunlight, an exciting
frosty glitter that made her
eyes shine and her heart turn
over inside her like a fish. She
could distinctly feel its tail,
as it turned, against her ribs.
Then she clattered the money
back into its box and, in a
tent of hair, thumbed on the
plaster.
“But what about me?” Billy
said. “I earn it too.”
“Oh, you! ” said Janet. “They
wouldn’t trust you. You
haven’t a head for business.”
She was delighted with this
remark, borrowed from their
father, and had to hum a small
song under her hair to keep
herself from giggling ; but it
annoyed Billy.
“I have a head for business,”
he said. “You see. I have a
head for business, too. And
if you don’t give me my share
I won’t go away when they
ask us. Then where will you
be?”
“Now see what you’ve done,”
Janet said. “You've got my
hair all caught-up with the
sticking-plaster.”
But she did not seem really
annoyed and even rolled the
shillings out again for Billy to
hold for a minute. Holding
them under his eye, each with
its bearded king, and kangaroo
and emu on the reverse prop-
ping up a shield, Billy was
astonished once again at the
ease with which they earned
them. It didn’t make sense.
But there they were, and,
sliding them from one hand
to the other, he said, “Know
what I’m going to do with
mine? I’m going to buy a
cattle-pup.”
It was as easy as that. But
Janet had started fidgeting.
‘‘Don’t throw them about
like that,” she said. ‘‘You’ll lose
them. Here, put them back.”
And when they were safely
gummed down again and the
money-box was stowed away in
the roots of the maybush and
they were loitering back up
the gravel path, Janet put her


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company, Established 1862.
Head Offices GEORGE AND HUNTEK STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIHECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICKENS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to— *
NAME
ADDRESS .j,..
r. ....
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year — l9s. 6d,
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange la country cheques ,
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to "The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
thin arm around Billy’s
shoulders and said, “We can’t
have a cattle-pup and a trip to
Sydney. But I’ll tell you what:
I’ll get Bert to send you back
a fishing-line, or a surf-flag, or
even a bit of rope from the
reel.”
Billy, kicking stones, thought
this over. What could he do
with a surf-flag? Perhaps he
could set it up at the creek.
Moodily, in self-doubt, he
kicked at the stones. Perhaps
Janet was right and he didn't
have a business head after all.
“Or Bert might even send
you his photograph,” Janet
said.
11.
T>ert was Elsie’s boyfriend.
** He was a lifesaver at
Coogee and was never out of a
bathing-costume except in the
winter, when he swept-out a
pub and threw people out the
doors. He could do anything.
And during the hot early after-
noons the children lay about
on the linoleum in Elsie’s bed-
room, their towels and
costumes piled ready by the
door, and listened to Elsie talk-
ing about Bert.
It was a corner room opening
onto their sleep-out, and often
Billy wandered off through the
door, or leaned far out one
of the high, vined windows, for
a breath of fresh air; for
Elsie’s room smelt. It was a
smell Billy always associated
with housemaids, sweet and
stale like pear-blossoms; and
somehow the thought of Bert
always brought the same smell
with him into his mind.
“Always fidgeting and fool-
ing about,” Elsie said, licking a
curl into place in the glass.
“What are you up to’ now?
Letting in flies?”
Billy laughed his breath out
among the vines and said, “See-
ing where the ghost walks.”
“Ghosts,” Elsie said. “Stuff
and nonsense. Besides, they
don’t have feet.”
“This one did. Emmy heard
it, didn’t she, Jan? Up and
down, a hundred to the dozen ;
and right under this window.”
“More like old Sol with a
bee in his pants!”
Elsie laughed with all her
young body. Emmy! Well,
who'd have thought it! Then,
catching herself in the glass,
she pared and refined until
nothing was left but a half-
smile like a paper flower be-
tween her teeth.
“And so la-de-da! ” she
mocked. “Kiss my foot! But
you never can tell.”
“You can laugh,” Billy said,
“but Emmy heard it.”
“There’s ears! ”
“Getting back to Bert,” Janet
said, defending their old cook ;
“does he really sweep out a
pub?”
Somehow this did not fit
in with the character of the
lifesaver.
“Only in the winter.” Elsie
powdered, with pursed lips.
“Maybe that’s where he gets
his smell,” said Billy.
“What’s all this' about Bert
smelling?”
Elsie's face was innocent with
astonishment. Her man was in
danger, crumbling away in
these children’s minds. And in
panic she seized the paste
photograph from her dressing-
table.
“Smell!” she cried. “There
he is, third from the right. You
can’t smell in the sea all day.”
And indeed, Bert, third from
the right, knee up, eyes to the
front, marching in his costume
across the white sands beneath
the unfurled flag of his life-
saving club, did not look like
a man who smelt.
Billy wondered how the idea
had ever come to him, and
hoped it would never get back.
He was for all the world like
a smooth-running engine, the
perfect hero. Engines only
smelt when they got old.
“Imagine thinking that of
Bert!” Elsie, hand to cheek,
sat down on her stool, holding
their impressed gaze. “Who-
ever put such a wicked thought
into your heads? And as for
sweeping-out hotels” —for she
needed to dig-in—“someone’s
got to do it. You wouldn’t like
to arrive on holiday and find
peanuts and orange-peel all
over the foyer, would you?”
Even Janet conceded:
“Hotels are different.”
And Billy, quite excited,
cried, “Does he sweep-oul
Petty’s, then?”
“Something like that.”
“And throw the people out?”
“If they don't behave them-
selves.”
“Wisss!”
Billy’s uncles always stayed
at Petty’s. There were the
uncles on his father's side, tall,
hand-folding, shoulder-squaring
men, always being called to
long-distance telephones, who
each had a formula for greet-
ing Billy. His Uncle George,
for instance, had once surprised
him burning a snail with a
magnifying-glass. .‘Very in-
teresting things, snails,” Uncle
George saifl.
And now, whenever they met,
it was, “Well! Well! old chap!
And how are the snails?”
Then there were his other
uncles, seldom seen, mythical
men who were always riding
polo-ponies up the front steps
in his mother’s stories, and
dossing-down on the billiard-
tables ; and, although Billy felt
that they were more likely to
be thrown out by Bert, he
hoped very much it might be
Uncle George.
“Show me how he does it?”
he cried, wide eyed.
“Oh, like this,” said Elsie,
and she took him firmly by
the collar and seat of the pants.
“Bert calls it the bum’s rush.”
And away wheeled Uncle
George, all knees and elbows
in a bum’s rush, out through
the open door to land a belly-
flopper on Janet’s bed.
“Hooray!” cried Billy into
the pillow. His opinion of
Bert had never stood so high.
111.
"Out it was when Elsie took
them to the creek, as she
did each summer afternoon
while their governess was on
holiday, that Bert was really
at his best.
The creek, cool with willows,
slanted through sand at the
foot of the hill ; and the
children, like a rabbiting-pack,
raced off in front of Elsie and
the basket, mocking and call-
ing until they came to the
thistle-patch. There Elsie
passed them while they picked
their way angularly on bare
toes; and by the time they
reached the flat and the China-
man’s garden, the party was
together, except for Babs,
tiny figure crying “Wait for
me!” among the thistles.
“I dropped my towel,” Babs
cried. “1 dropped my towel
and it’s full of prickles.”
“Take no notice,” Janet
said, foot over knee, picking.
“She will take her shoes off.
She only does it to attract
attention.”
But there was an agonising
wait before Babs caught up
and her nose was blown and
Elsie moved off again like a
hen with chickens.
Oh, the pleasure of luke-
warm water after the dust and
the thistles! Clear as tea, it
slid over the mica sand ; and
the children stood legs-apart
in midstream watching their
feet disappearing beneath them.
Elsie settled down with her
basket in the elbow of a
willow-root.
“Come here, Babs,” she
called, “and I’ll take your
things off.”
Billy was sent away by Janet
behind the willow to change.
{Continued on page 56)


"GRASP THE NETTLE"
By R.R.D.
pROM the recent civil war in
•*- Indonesia two facts have
now become apparent. The
first is that, in its struggle for
independence, Indonesia needs
outside help, given without
condescension but also without
strings. This has been evi-
dent for the last six years, but
until now has been ignored
by the Western nations.
The second fact is more
significant: General Haris
■Nasution, commander-in-chief
of the Indonesian Army, has
won his spurs and at the same
time has tended to show
himself as anti-Communist.
Here is a young officer
who has gained sudden
prominence outside his chosen
profession but who, so far, has
not copied Nasser and allowed
success to go to his head. As
a soldier, his first aim seems
to be an effic ent Army—and
it is likely that quite a few
of his lieutenant-colonels will
be buying bowler-hats.
As a thinker, he seems sure
of his own mind and has the
courage of his convictions. To
stand-up to Soekarno, as he
has when his own ideas have
opposed those of the President,
must take a lot of doing,
particularly since the crushing
of the revolt has made
Soekarno Indonesia's man-of-
destiny.
Indonesia needs help eco-
nomically and militarily. At the
moment it looks towards the
East, partly because India,
which guides the thoughts of
all the uncommitted new
nations throughout the world,
is the involuntary champion of
democracy. But Indonesia also
looks to the West sub-
consciously no doubt —because
her own ties are stronger
towards those nations whom
she knows than towards the
Communists, whom she must
have cause to fear after ihe
Hungarian atrocities. Yet she
makes no bones about the fact
that if she can get no help
from the West, she will turn
towards Russia. And we know
from bitter experience how
such an approach would be
seized upon by the Communists.
Western nations may be
scared by this blunt alternative
and so tend to withdraw from
any offer of help simply because
they feel that their hand is
being forced in a situation of
which they are not fully
informed. Australia, Indo-
nesia’s next-door neighbor,
cannot afford to stand aside.
The time has come when a
decision must be taken, and
its results may be of incalcu-
lable importance to our own
future and that of the world.
The history of Indonesia
shows that the one course that
must be wrong is to do nothing.
We have tried that before and
it led to this revolt —and to a
bankrupt economy behind the
scenes, an open invitation to
the Communists (who, in Indo-
nesia as elsewhere, are ruth-
lessly efficient men) to take
over.
But, if we do take action, it
must be without thought of
“My friend the witch-doctor, he told me what to do—
‘Oo-ee, oo-uh-ha, ting-tang , Wallah-Wallah , bing-bang!' ”
“blackmail” or condescension
or personal gain. Our aim must
be simply the defence of free-
dom for the Indonesians and
ourselves.
To attain this, we should
approach them as neighbors,
not as schoolmasters trying to
teach them how to run their
own country. True, the issue
is clouded by Indonesian
claims to Dutch New Guinea ;
but, then, what issue is not
clouded nowadays? All that
can be done is to measure the
relative advantages and dis-
advantages of the issue and
decide where the greatest
benefit to our own defence and
that of the world will lie and
then to choose a course and
pursue it without hesitation.
Perhaps Australia cannot do
much to help Indonesia eco-
nomically, because every penny
that can be invested domesti-
cally is needed to develop our
own vast country. But mili-
farily there may be something
we can offer. General Nasution
is trying to build-up the Indo-
nesian Army into an efficient,
non-partisan fighting - force.
That task would be made
easier for him if he would
accept the help of a military
mission, provided that he and
President Soekarno fully appre-
ciated that this mission came
“without strings.”
At the very lowest estimate,
a military mission would need
to consist of some 500 officers
and men. This is beyond the
scope of Australia acting by
itself, but not beyond that
of the new nations of the
British Commonwealth acting
in unison. It is in our power
to take the initiative and to
invite the Indonesian nation to
accept this idea and our sister-
nations of the Brit sh Common-
wealth to join us in this effort
to save South-east Asia before
it is too late.
PUBLIC VIEW OF PUBLIC SERVICE
From “Mugga Way”
-pROM several quarters recently
the higher ranks of the
Federal public service, especi-
ally the policy-framing sectors
in Canberra, have been under
heavy and fairly well-informed
fire. It is as easy for depart-
mental heads and their im-
mediate underlings to shrug-
off such criticism as it is for
Ministers, deluded into a belief
that they make their own
decisions, to do so. Yet it
would be well if the Govern-
ment yielded to the strong
advocacy by the Liberal party
in several States and, more
recently, employers' associ-
ations and set-up something of
a Hoover Commission ; and
it would be still better if the
senior public servants in Can-
berra took some heed of where
their departmental inbreeding
is likely to lead the country
in a few years.
It is true, inevitably, that the
heads of the service are largely
concerned with their own
seniorities and with the status
and influence of their own
departments. Admittedly, also,
they perform a great deal of
efficient work over long hours
of duty. (So they should, of
course. Their salaries, taking
into account the security and
other service advantages, are
now quite ■ adequate by any
standard.) But even when
integrity and a high degree of
intelligence are admitted, there
are trends which must cause
misgivings. An American
observer not so long ago
pointed-out some of the
dangers, and his views were
later endorsed, in effect, by the
director of the Institute of
Public Affairs, Victoria, a
skilled and acute student of
the Canberra scene.
Mr. Kemp has warned of the
effects of the environment, in
which no public servant stands
to gain personally by keeping
down costs, in wh : ch there is
remoteness from the everyday
life of the people of Australia,
in which there is a constant
danger of a “holier than thou”
attitude.
The public service needs
reminding that it is the servant
of the Parliament and the
people, and not their masters.
It needs reminding of its
responsibilities, which, in
broad, are to make the nation
a better place for dynamic
private development and a
consequent and constant rise
in living - standards. Too
crushing a burden of hundreds
of thousands on the public pay-
rolls, too well-entrenched a
security for too little an assign-
ment of genuine responsibility
can ruin a nation by under-
mining its courage and risk-
taking as well as by bleeding
its economy.
It is no use starting from the
present overload of vested
public-service interest. What
is wanted is a reassessment, in
terms of bedrock, of what is
needed in the way of public
servants, and then working
down over a period of years
to that bedrock.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 18 78
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. 0. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Sundry Spring Hopes
Of all Sydney’s important
races, the most elusive for Vic-
torian-trained horses has been
the Metropolitan ; Dennis Boy,
in 1932, was the last Victorian
to win it. If the five-year-old
Summertime horse Summalu
goes to Sydney there’s a chance
that he might break that losing
sequence. Although the field
opposed to him was not strong,
Summalu earned the trip by
his win in the £2OOO John F.
Feehan Handicap at Moonee
Valley last Saturday.
As a three-year-old Summalu
was top-class. He ran second
to Monte Carlo in the 1956 Vic-
toria Derby, and in the follow-
ing autumn won the V.R.C. St.
Leger. Thereafter his form fell
away. He won a 10-furlongs
event at Caulfield in September,
1957, but was then out of
the winning-list until he scored
in an 11-furlongs race at Eagle
Farm in June this year. His
win in the Feehan was yet more
evidence of the good that horses
derive from wintering in
Brisbane’s sunshine.
In the mile Feehan Handicap,
Summalu raced close to the
lead throughout, and he
finished with plenty in hand.
That ability to hold a forward
position, plus his undoubted
stamina, makes Summalu an
ideal Metropolitan type. He is
weighted at 8.5 for the big
Sydney race, a lenient impost
for a classic winner.
On a day when the class
of horse engaged was mainly
winter-standard, one perform-
ance stood out at Moonee
Valley Planetoid’s win in the
second heat of the Cumberland
Handicap. Conditions, hock-
deep in mud, were all against
the heavily-weighted runners,
but Planetoid effortlessly
lumped 9.5—171 b. more than
the second-topweight—and he
won the race without ever being
required to gallop better than
three-quarter pace. The three-
year-old Empyrean colt is a
racegoer’s delight. He does
his best in all conditions, and
from 12 starts has never been
out of a place—his record:
five wins, four seconds, three
thirds.
There is no chance, however,
that Planetoid will win a
classic, or one of the important
spring handicaps. The distance
of such races is beyond him.
The important spring event he
could easily win is the Caul-
field Guineas, and owner Dave
Whiteside revealed after
Planetoid’s win at the Valley
that the Guineas was the colt’s
spring mission.
Pattern for the day’s racing
at Moonee Valley was set in the
first event, when maiden per-
former Vistena won the first
heat of the Merri Handicap, a
six-furlongs less 20yds. event
for three-year-old fillies. The
muddy conditions made form
an unreliable guide ; only one
favorite got home in the eight
races. Vistena’s time was a
fair guide to the conditions —
she took 1.19 j, scarcely
reasonable time for a training-
gallop. Conditions apart, a lot
of the credit for the win was
due to jockey lan Saunders.
Saturday was the first day he
had ridden as a fully-fledged
jockey he completed his
indentures a week earlier. The
favorite, Shanty Miss, seemed
to have the race well won a
few yards from the post, until
Saunders virtually lifted his
mount over the line for a head
win. Vistena has been entered
for all the spring classic races
for fillies. Her owner is Robert
Hunter, studmaster at North-
wood Park Stud. She's by
sire of sprinters Palm Vista out
of Valeena.
Winner of the second Merri
Handicap at the Valley was
also a maiden the Emperor-
Lady Waljeers filly Heart's
Content, who is raced by her
breeder, Riverina grazier
A. P. E. Tyson. Even allowing
for the weak class engaged, it
was a pretty good performance.
Heart's Content was racing
first-up since last January, and
from her wide barrier she had
to battle her way gradually
to the leading division ; in the
run home she drew away to win
very easily. Little-raced, she’s
likely to score in better com-
pany. The favorite, Meadow
Bird, raced by Victorian
Premier H. E. Bolte, did well
enough in the conditions to run
third under her topweight 8.12.
Often enough a stayer runs
well in a sprint first-up from
a spell, as Dusty Light did in
winning the first heat of the
Cumberland Handicap at the
Valley. He's likely to make his
name as a stayer. By the
imported Lighthouse II (best
known as the sire of Sailor’s
Guide), he’s from Dusty
Flagon, a winner in England—
she’s by Stardust (sire of Star
Kingdom) from Moll Flagon
by Figaro from Molly Bawn
by Junior. Only a good horse
could have won as well as
Dusty Light did. His official
winning margin was 12 lengths,
which could have been even
more had jockey Alan Yeo-
mans pushed him out. It will
be surprising indeed if Dusty
Light does not score in much
better company.
A good deal has been said
on this page about the extra-
ordinary skill of cross-country
jockey Brian Smith. Effective
standards of comparison are
bard to level, but it is doubt-
ful if a better jumping jockey
than Smith has ever ridden on
an Australian racecourse.
Smith rode Prince Corrie,
winner of the Lindsay Gordon
Steeplechase at the Valley. It
was the first time the five-year-
old gelding had won any sort
of race. At his previous start
—also at the Yalley—he ruined
his chance by ragged jumping.
With Smith in control, the
High Corrie gelding did not
put a foot wrong, and won by
any number of lengths. It is
an education to watch Smith
put a horse to a jump. At
exactly the right stride he
seems to lift his mount to the
obstacle, and he retains perfect
balance while the horse
recovers galloping-action after
the jump. In addition, he’s a
superb judge of pace, and
strong in a tight finish. Not
surprising that he has headed
Victorian jumping jockeys the
past three years.
• • • •
Racing at Caulfield next
Saturday should indicate
whether any Victorian horses
will play a prominent part in
the important events of the
spring, with main interest in
the nine - furlongs, £3OOO
w.-f.-a. Memsie Stakes. Lord,
whose form as a sprinter has
been first-class, will tackle that
middle-distance. If he wins
well, Victorian racegoers will
look to him to challenge the


EstabHshed 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
Jtn s B*'^?
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants ,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE ANO LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
best of the inter-State visitors
in scale races. Most of the
entrants for the 10-furlongs
Heatherlie Handicap (£2000;
10-furlongs) are Caulfield-Cup
nominations. The winner of
the race incurs no penalty for
the Cup. Early discussions on
the Caulfield Cup suggest that
Chief Wongo has the best
chance of the Victorian
entrants, and his return to rac-
ing in the Heatherlie will be
watched closely. Inner Spring
should run well in this race.
** *
Apart from such incidentals
as some thumping doubles-
dividends (£566 9s. 6d. ,
£6OB 18s. 6d.), and N. Mc-
Growdie being on a 100-to-l
winner, and the Grey Ghost
that popped-up and tossed the
best on offer in the w.-f.-a.
Warwick Stakes, the most note-
worthy event at Warwick Farm
last Saturday was probably
Yarrawin’s game win in the
Second Mulgoa Novice. It was
good enough, anyway, to
suggest a fair sort of chance
for the Lucky Bag (imp.)
gelding in next Saturday’s
Canterbury Guineas, with Sky-
line and Bardshah also likely to
make a good race of it.
• • • •
With Tulloch temporarily
indisposed (reported to be O.K.
now, though), the Warwick
Stakes was reckoned a match-
race between Prince Darius
and the outstanding filly Wiggle,
with the filly generally preferred
(and odds-on in the betting),
though her w.-f.-a. ability was
being taken a bit for granted.
She put up a very good show,
leading most of the way and
well clear into the straight;
but then Prince Darius ranged
up, beat her quickly off, and
looked the winner. Passed in
the run home, Grey Ghost then
came again, fairly wide out, to
take it right on the post. A
very sound win for the Empy-
rean four-year-old—even more
solid than his win in Brisbane
—and another nicely-judged
bit of riding by ex-country
jockey C. Kelly. More will
be heard of the Ghost, who’s
still being rated below his real
quality, as happens with odd
good ones from time to time.
* * *
There begins to be a genuine
spring feeling about things with
the Canterbury Guineas coming
up at Canterbury Park next
Saturday. The event used to
be run over nine furlongs, but
half-a-furlong was added last
year, when Todman (at 3 to
1 on) easily beat Turkestan and
Lord Cortauld. Todman
didn’t start in the A.J.C. Derby,
in which Turkestan finished
third. Moorland (1943) and
Prince Morvi (1953) won both
Guineas and Derby.
• • » •
At the annual meeting of
the Sydney Turf Club (its 15th)
chairman Harry T a n c r e d
mentioned that each of the
club’s race-tracks had four
galloping-rinks. Rosehill caters
for 200 horses, Rosebery for
180, and Canterbury for 160.
Rosebery, costing in the vicinity
of £30,000 a year to hold and
maintain, is used exclusively
for training. Seems a pretty
heavy cost for accommodating
fewer than 200 horses. Any-
way, it will bring in a nice sort
of cheque when it’s sold.
Making his first appearance
for several months three-year-
old Winchester easily won the
Second Ashbury Stakes at the
Canterbury midweek fixture.
Though it was his first success,
he was heavily supported. A
son of Brueghel (It.), he’s
from Marie Jay, who is by
John James (imp.) from Marie
Lloyd by Vio Malt, a son of
Violoncello (imp.), winner of
the 1921 Caulfield Cup.
• • • •
The Charlie Munros must
have had a happy sort of day
at the latest Wyong meeting.
Munro’s 15-year-old apprentice,
Alan Taylor, had his first race-
win on Fleece, who's trained
by Munro and raced by Mrs.
Munro. Then Fleece was
saddled-up again, and the
sst. 61b. midget rider made it a
double. David Keys, appren-
ticed to Rosebery trainer E. F.
Beck, also won his first race
at Wyong, on Jambo Rose,
while at Canterbury Park M.
McCarten’s apprentice, Ray
Patterson, had his first race-
success on the stable’s Aka-
tarawa. The McCarten winner
was to have been ridden by
N. Sellwood, but he had a
fall in an earlier race. Patter-
son filled the breach with
distinction.
* * *
At the Trots
Although a heavily backed
favorite, Sonatol, who beat
Bobby Medoro by 2\ lengths
in the Trotters’ Handicap at
Harold Park on Saturday
night, met with a very mixed
reception as he romped home
an easy winner—a week earlier
he had finished last after
galloping for most of the
first lap. From his 48yds.
handicap on Saturday he began
brilliantly, ran to the lead after
a lap and was untroubled.
After the galloping effort the
stewards had warned that a
repetition of that sort of thing
would lead to a ban. For Satur-
day night’s run New Zealander
W. R. Willmott, who owns,
trains and drives Sonatol, had
him shod with special shoes
to prevent his knocking him-
self. At that, Sonatol had
been balloted out in the draw
for Saturday’s race, but got a
last-minute reprieve before
acceptance-time by the late
withdrawal of Merry Dancer.
• • • •
Brilliant tactics by driver
F. W. Wilkins enabled him to
land the Harold Park Handi-
cap with Bannalagh. Fire
Chief and Bondi John were
the leaders for most of the
journey, with the favorite,
Maestro’s Melody, on the rails
behind them and Bannalagh
holding him there from along-
side. Fire Chief dropped be-
hind at the “bell,” but Bondi
John and Bannalagh still held
Maestro’s Melody in the
pocket. When Bannalagh
started to go ahead in the
straight, driver Shinn pulled
Maestro’s Melody to the out-
side and set sail after the
leader. He failed by a long
neck, with Bondi John 3*
lengths away third.
• • • •
Although up in class, First
Kiss repeated his effortless win
of the previous week (he had
then won by 30 lengths) when
he had 15 lengths to spare over
Night Reveller and Spearfield.
Going ahead right from the
start, First Kiss was 10 lengths
in front after a lap and had
increased this to about 20
lengths with a lap to go. Then,
with the field beaten, driver
Turnbull allowed First Kiss to
coast home. His mile rale was
again 2.9 j.
* * #
O ther Sports
The last round of Sydney’s
Rugby Union had no great
significance, the final premier-
ship four being already decided,
except to discover the winner
of the club-championship it
was Manly, which became
champion club by giving East
its third defeat running, 17-13.
Manly and Gordon were joint
minor premiers. Gordon beat
St. George 14-9, University
walloped North 25-9, Eastf-
wood humbled Parramatta 34-9
and Randwick just managed
Drummoyne 16-8. This Satur-
day it’s East v. St. George, loser
eliminated.
“Kanimbla”: France’s shock
defeat of South Africa, 9-5, in
the second Test (B. 20/8/’SB)
was the first time South Africa
had lost a Test-series at home-
in fact, it was the first time
South Africa had been beaten
in a home Rugby Union inter-
national. France is also only
the second country to win
a Test-series against South
Africa anywhere this century.
The first country to do so was
N.Z., which defeated the tour-
ing Springboks three Tests out
of four in 1956.
* * *
In Sydney Rugby League’s
second semi-final, before a
crowd of 38,857, West surprised
St. George 34-10; it led 19-0
at half-time, and went to a
26-0 lead. West, winning early
scrums and with its backs
running strongly, attacked from
the start, and never let the
Saints settle down. Its stars
were Holman, Henry and
Dimond in the backs, and
Charlton and O'Shea in the
forwards. This Saturday St.
George faces Balmain.
* * *
In the first V.F.L. round this
year Fitzroy donkey-licked
North 23.21-5.9 —for ’Roy,
which finished second-last in
1957, to skyrocket to the top
of the table and North to sink
to the bottom. Next time the


Divorce Notice
IN THK SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — Is Divorce.
TO IVY HOSE SWAN formerly of 3
Hutchinson Street St. Peters in the State
of New South Wales—TAKE NOTICE
that a Decree for Restitution of Con-
jugal Rights was made on the 25th
March 1957 requiring you to return and
render conjugal rights to your husband
JOSEPH WILLIAM SWAN at 10S Hill-
crest Avenue Greenacre within 21 days
after the 24th day of September 3958
and to file in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney a
certificate of your compliance with the
said Decree within 25 days of 24th Sep-
tember 3 958 You may obtain reason-
able expenses for your return from
HADDOCKS COHEN & MAGUIRE, Soli-
citors, 38 Martin Place, Sydney, upon
application. A copy of the decree and
notices have been posted to your sister,
MRS. HENDRICKSON, at 3 Hutchinson
Street, St. Peters. AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that if you fail to
comply with the said decree your hus-
band may forthwith petition for judicial
separation or divorce. —J. DOUGH AN,
Registrar.
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Establi ;hed 1808 in Reign of
Qeorge 111 .
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(England)
N.S.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
Slew Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
two met, the Lions again won,
still reasonably comfortably,
12.17-7.16. But their third
meeting, in the first semi-final
last Saturday, was the one that
really mattered, and it was won
by North by four points, 10.10-
9.12. In a game which thrilled
the crowd of 68,213, North,
which led by 18 points at the
third change, had to withstand
a strong fight-back by Fitzroy
in the last quarter; Fitzroy
took the lead, and North only
regained it with a goal in
“time-on.” Fitzroy, never out
of “the four” all through, was
unlucky in being, without two
stars for the semi-final —half-
back flanker Kevin Murray
and centreman Don Furness.
The loss of eight points in
its last two games has thus
eliminated Fitzroy. In the last
home-and-home round, Haw-
thorn defeated it by four
points, and so denied it the
vital double-chance. On the
other hand, in the second-last
round a lucky goal in the last
minute allowed it to scrape in
against Carlton by five points
—in somewhat the same
fashion that North won the
semi-final.
♦ * *
“Jaybee”: One feature of
the Australian Rules code is the
solid conviction of supporters
of both sides that the umpire
is not only always wrong but is
definitely favoring the other
side. During a hectic last-
quarter at Footscray one
Saturday a stray dog entered
the arena. Play was held-up
while the umpire chased and
caught the intruder and carried
it solemnly towards the
boundary-fence. The dead
silence was then broken by a
lone “outer” supporter who
bawled across the ground.
“Look after ’im, Umpy, ’e’s
the only mate y're got.”
“Wilkie”: East Perth
dropped its entire League side
for the “Lightning Premier-
ship,” the W.A.N.F.L.’s gesture
to mark the centenary of the
Aussie game. Five country
teams joined with the eight
League sides to play 13 40min.
matches over one weekend.
East was criticised for its move,
but claimed that the club was
out for the season’s major
pennant. Subiaco fielded its
best side in the lightning event
and won it. The following week
East and Subiaco met, and
there was much speculation
whether Subiaco's hard week-
end would fit it to beat the
resting East; but the latter
showed that its rest was bene-
ficial by winning by seven
goals.
“Bicky”: St. Kilda full-
forward Bill Young is nothing
if not consistent. In Jiis first
season of League football in
1956 he kicked 56 goals, to
be the leading goal-kicker for
the year; in 1957 he again
kicked 56 goals for the season ;
while this year—you wouldn’t
read about it! he again
notched 56 goals.
• • • •
For the second year in suc-
cession the Brownlow Medal
(for “best and fairest” in the
V.F.L.) was won by a St. Kilda
player, captain and centre-
half-back Neil Roberts. Haw-
thorn centreman Brendan
Edwards finished “second, with
South rover Bob Skilton third.
Last year’s Brownlow winner,
Brian Gleeson, through injury,
did not play a game all the
year.
“Rossby”: In such a high-
scoring game, draws are not
so very common in the Aus-
tralian code ; there is a much
greater chance of drawn games
in Soccer, for instance. So
Chadstone, in its first year in
the Caulfield-Oakleigh league
(Melbourne), must have surely
set an Australian record by
playing three successive draws
in its last three games this
season —it kicked 8.17 to 10.5 ;
7.5 to 6.11 ; and 5.10 to 5.10.
* * #
Making the setting of new
world-records almost a com-
monplace thing for himself,
Herb Elliott made hacks of a
class field at Gothenburg
(Sweden), to cut 2.lsec. off the
world-record for the 1500-
metres. His time was 3min.
36sec. The Czech runner Jung-
wirth, who . set the previous
record on July 12 last year,
was second, 3sec. behind
Elliott, with New Zealander
Halberg third. Fourth was
Hungarian Roszavoelgyi, who
had held the world-record for
the distance before Jungwirth.
Britain’s Ibbotson came in
ninth.
* * *
South Africa's Gary Player
won the Australian Open,
at Kooyonga (S.A.), with five
strokes in hand from the con-
sistent Sydneysider Kel Nagle.
Player finished with 271 for
the 72-hole tourney. Frank
Phillips, who later this year
will partner Peter Thomson
in the Canada Cup, finished in
third place, eight strokes behind
the winner. Leading amateur
was Bruce Devlin, of Goul-
burn (N.S.W.), who filled fifth
place on 287.
* * *
“Veryl”: Long - distance
swimming is one sport in which
the girls can compete on equal
terms with, if not outmatch,
the men. Danish ex-Olympian
Gretta Anderson has won the
last two cross-Channel swims,
and in this year’s crossing, last
month, went within minutes of
beating the Egyptian Rehim’s
lOhrs. 50min. record made in
1950. Two or three years ago
the most persistent long-
distance swimmer was an
American typist, Florence
Chadwick, and New Zealander
Margaret Sweeney and British
girl Brenda Fisher can beat the
men over the distances.
* * *
“Judee”: John Cheadle,
Australian and N.S.W. squash
champion, may not have held
these titles had he not taken-
up baby-sitting while studying
law. He offered to baby-sit at
the home of a friend, H. V.
Napier, now president of the
N.S.W. Squash Racquets Asso-
ciation. Napier convinced him
that squash was a sport he
shouldn’t miss. That was 10
years ago, and three years later
Cheadle took-up the game
seriously. He has held the
N.S.W. title for the past four
years, and won the Australian
championship last year.
* *
On August 25, for the
second successive Monday
night, there was a tiptop fight
at Sydney Stadium. Following
the Empire welterweight-title
fight between George Barnes
and Van Rensburg, the clash
between Australian middle-
weight champ. Clive Stewart
and American negro Willie
Vaughn—one of the nicest-
looking middleweights to
come here since Attilio Sabatino
and Ossie Stewart at the start of
the war —was one calculated to
drag all lost patrons back to
the Noble Art. In a -sustained
display of punching, both
boxers showed themselves top-
class fighters. Vaughn, on
points.
• • • •
At Melbourne Stadium on
Friday night Queenslander
George Flemming became
Australian featherweight cham-
pion when the ref. stopped his
bout with Bobby Bath at the
end of the ninth round. The
title became vacant when Max
Murphy hung-up his gloves a
month ago. Bath, showing
tons of courage, took the fight
to Flemming from the bell, but
his left eye was opened in the
fourth round ; by the ninth,
with Bath still ahead on points,
Flemming had bunged it up.
The ref. then decided it was
time for everyone else, as well
as the hapless Robert, to get
some shuteye. Flemming, who
had a points win over Murphy
before the latter won his title,
fought Bobby Sinn for the
“fedder” title in April, 1957,
but then, like Bath, was forced
out (in the third round) by a
damaged eye.


BALD PATCHES
Hair grown secret formula
Sacred Eastern Oils. Rarely
fails. Treats Alopecia. Leading
broadcaster’s liair grown after
years of Baldness. Effective
treatment for dandruff (Basic
cause of nearly all bair sick-
ness), and stops falling bair.
My herbal treatment restores
grey bair to original colour.
Not a dye—not injurious, not
obvious Names given of lead-
ing citizens (with their per-
mission) who gratefully testify.
My treatment used in privacy
of your borne.
For free advice write—*
MRS. A. EASTON,
Box 5204, G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE
INSURANCE —for your protecfion
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £20,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 81 3 1 (4 lines) ’ W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Want*
Sheet-music of Chopin’s Noc-
turne, Op. 27, No. 2, in D Flat
Major, arranged by Wilkelmj for
violjn and piano.—6742.
Copy of The Works of Rabelais
(published by Chatto and Windus,
London) with illustrations by
Gustav Dore. —6741.
Information Supplied
From Miss L. G. Norman:
Further to that explanation of the
“Brains Trust” (B. 20/8/'5B) I’d
like to mention that the 8.8. C. pro-
gramme was originally called “Any
Questions?” It was primarily
meant to be entertaining and pro-
vocative, and to supply a measure
of mental stimulation to the thou-
sands of troops isolated in lonely
parts of Britain. Most of the ques-
tions dealt with matters that were
purely speculative, or ones depend-
ing on personal beliefs and
opinions.
The first team consisted of
Commander A. B. Campbell, Dr.
Julian Huxley and Professor C. E.
M. Joad, with Donald McCullough
as M.C. It was their encycloptedic
knowledge and readiness to discuss
any subject at all that led the public
to refer to them as the “Brains
Trust.” Although the 8.8. C. per-
sisted in its original title for a short
time, public opinion proved too
strong, and the programme was
forthwith - rechristened. There are
two books on the programme—
Britain’s Brains Trust and The
“Brains Trust” Book, both by
Howard Thomas.
Information Sought
(I) ‘Some details of joint-owner-
ship? (2) Are death-duties affected
at all? '
(1) This is a wide term. The two
usual forms are joint-tenancy and
tenancy-in-common. In one, the
property automatically goes to the
survivor of the joint owners; in the
other, it can be directed anywhere
by the owner of the share. And
there are other highly technical
distinctions. *
(2) Neither type of ownership
causes smaller death-duty. Amount
of death-duty is bound-up in the
question of who contributed the
money to buy the property.
Presuming that the man and his
wife are actual owners in equal
shares, there would be no death-
duty if the property comprised the
whole of the estate. Any further
points about planning-schemes can
be had from the Cumberland
County Council.
* * * *
(1) Some information on song-
writer Victor Herbert ? (2) Any full-
length biography in print ?
(1) Born in Dublin on Feb'. 8,
1859, and sent to Germany to study
“How much do divorces cost — wholesale?"
music at the age of seven, he made
a name for himself initially as a
violoncellist. He played in several
famous European orchestras, and
in 1886 married Therese Forster, a
soprano at the Vienna Opera.
Together they went to New York,
Mrs. Herbert to sing at the Metro-
politan and Herbert to be first-
violcncellist there.
Later he conducted the Pitts-
burgh Symphony Orchestra, but
after the success in 1894 of his first
light-opera, “Prince Ananias,” he
made composing his chief concern.
Most famous of his operettas are
“Naughty Mari e 11 a,” “The
Serenade,” “The Wizard of the
Nile” and “The Fortune Teller.”
His two excursions into opera,
“Natoma” and “Madeleine,” were
unsuccessful. Herbert ranks as one
of the greatest in the field of light
music. He died on May 26, 1924.
(2) Yes —Victor Herbert: a Life
in Music, by Edward Waters (New
York, 1955).
* * * •
(1) Method of home-curing
tobacco-leaf ? (-2) How to roll the
cured leaf into cigars?
(1) The curing-process is quite
complicated, and involves a fair bit
of detail. A cigar is made out of
three types of leaf-wrapper:—the
outermost leaf (thin, elastic and with
no holes), the binder and the filler.
Often these are grown on three
distinct types of tobacco, and so
receive different treatment. Take
Big Cuban—-the wrapper comes
from lower leaves, the binder from
centre leaves and the filler from top
leaves.
Flue-curing makes for a nicely
textured ieaf. There are three stages
in this process: (1) yellowing, (2)
fixing, (3) killing. No hard-and-fast
formula can be given, but if the
following is taken as a basis the
grower will soon be able to modify
or vary the process to his satis-
faction.
As soon as the barn is full, close
the building right up, start the fire
going and bring the temperature
up to 90deg. F. Keep it at this
point for 18 to 36 hours, according
to the condition of the leaf. If
the leaf is not yellowing as it should,
place sacks on the floor and soak
them with water to produce a moist
heat; or, better still, if a boiler
is handy, introduce steam.
When the leaves have assumed
a nice yellowish color raise- the
temperature to lOOdeg. at the rate
of sdeg. each two hours, and keep
at this point for about six hours.
Then raise the temperature to
105 deg. and give a little ventilation
top and bottom, opening the venti-
lators a few inches. Maintain these
conditions for three or four hours;
then increase the temperature to
llOdeg. and also increase the
ventilation to about one-half of the
capacity of the ventilators. Hold
for three hours. Do not raise the
temperature above llOdeg. until the
tips of the leaves have dried.
Next, again raise the temperature
to 115 deg. for six hours, giving
full ventilation, and advance to
120 deg. for six hours with full
ventilation. The critical time is
between llOdeg. and 120 deg. It
the heat is too fast the leaf will
splotch or blister, and if too slow
it will sponge. When the sweat
can be observed on the leaf
temperature must be increased*
rapidly by lOdeg. and all available
ventilation given.
After leaving it at 120 deg. for six
hours increase the temperature by
sdeg. every two hours to 135 deg.
Do not increase the temperature
until the blade of the leaf has dried-
out completely. Exhaust all mois-
ture by raisirfg the temperature
every hour by 5 deg. to 180 deg. and
gradually decrease the ventilation
until only a very little is left at the
top. Keep at the latter temperature
until the stems and stalks have com-
pletely dried-out. Extinguish the
tire as soon as the tobacco is cured.
The other method is air-curing;
the grower should have a building
that can be closed-up or opened
when necessary, and the ventilation
of which is able to be perfectly
controlled. Where curing is done in
an open shed, the tobacco should
be cut late in the afternoon and
hung on sticks close together. A
scaffold should be erected near the
shed, the sticks of tobacco being
placed close together and allowed
to remain so until the leaf has
assumed a yellow color. When this
change of color occurs each stalk
should be separated by a space of
about 6in. and the stick taken to
the barn. In the barn, sticks must
have enough space to allow a free
current of air to pass through the
tobacco.
(2) As for rolling cigars, this can
be done only after the leaf has
matured for at least 12 months.
• * * *
Legal definition of a syndicate ?
A syndicate has no strict legal
place; it is not a body corporate
and exists merely as a combination
of members. It differs from a
limited company since it is not a
body corporate, and the liability of
the members of a syndicate for its
debts is not limited unless the syndi-
cate is a limited company—it can
be a limited company if the
members so desire.
Nothing to stop a syndicate going
into partnership, though if it does
so it naturally assumes the charac-
teristics of a partnership. Generally
speaking, the word “syndicate”
implies a number of people loosely
bound together for a common aim,
each one of whom is liable for his
own misdeeds and responsible to
the other members of the syndicate
by whatever agreement holds them
together.


helps the
businessman
COvJ
The facilities and services of this bank can help the
businessman to solve his problems in a practical way.
Should he travel in this country or abroad, the bank
can help with itineraries and bookings, trade introductions
and many other aids to businessmen.
1_
m
m
r M&m
The friendly advice of
experienced officers in all
departments is available to
C.B.C. customers.
Modern procedure
makes the operation of a
savings account with the
C.B.C. Savings Bank a
simple matter for any
member of a family.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANY
What is the highest yearly amount
a pensioner can earn and still be
eligible for the age-pension ?
An old-age pensioner is entitled
to earn £3 10s. a week (£lB2 a
year), but his weekly pension is
reduced by the exact amount he
earns weekly over and above £3 10s.
If he earns, say, £4 a week, his
pension is reduced by 10s.
As to his assets, an old-age pen-
sioner may own his home and £2OO-
- of other assets; for every
£lO-worth of assets over the £2OO his
pension is reduced by £1 a year.
Brief Answers
R.E.M.: Sorry, no information.
. ...8.J.M.: No reference to
Catherine and Charles Baldwin
being on the first ship carrying free
settlers from England to Australia.
Unable to find either the name ol
the ship or warships you ask about;
suggest you write to the Public
Records Office, Chancery Lane, Lon-
don, W.C.2, Eng R.E.M.M.:
Try the Public Records Office,
address as above... .G.H.A.:
Unlikely that it would be possible
to estimate' the amount received
from rural areas....A.V.L.: The
last total eclipse of the sun visible
from the North Coast of N.S.W.
was in September, 1922. Next total
eclipse of the sun will not be before
the end of this century... .K.F.:
Crown Solicitor of N.S.W. 1945-46
was Mr. A. H. O’Connor. From
1947 until now the job has been
filled by F. P. Mcßae; address,
237 Macquarie Street, Sydney....
0.K.: You can't claim support
from him. Your personal posses-
sions are yours... .J. 8.: It would
seem that somebody is doing the
dirty. This sort of thing is best
handled by a solicitor on the scene
of action L.M.L.: (1) Yes. (2)
No, but it's often done... .P.H.:
(1) He certainly does. (2) Drop a line
to the Repatriation Department in
Hobart. (3) A prisoner’s money is
taken away from him when he goes
to jail; he is not allowed to buy
anything outside the lock-up
C.A.V.: You'll find it in a collec-
tion of Scott's works... .E.N.:
Figures not yet available... .R.J.P.:
Formula too detailed -for space
available; a full explanation has
been forwarded to y0u....X.X.:
No registration is needed for
farmers keeping ducks or fowds;
however, the farmer must comply
with health-regulations imposed by
the respective council or shire. If
a farmer has more than 19 ducks
or fowls on any one holding he
must consign the eggs to the nearest
depot of the Egg Marketing Board
or get a permit from the board to
sell the eggs privately.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
Q.N.: Description of the aftermath
of an atom-war not as good as
Nevil Shute’s... .8.M.J.: You
have a forceful flow of expression,
but at present it is stilled by
unnatural framework. Think more
of telling the story than of con-
fining it in forced limits... .R.P.:
Better suited to an English journal
. ...O.G.t Altogether too blood-
thirsty S.S.F.: Those “moors so
sere” won’t spring up here....
T.M.: Frankly, it has little value,
either as a short-story or a film-
script... .W.A.; Ruined by a pas-
sive central character... .K.W.:
Well, at least you've been reading
some modern poetry.... E.D.: Very
gloomy prophecy... .J.J.: Rough
but promising R.T.: It would
have been more convincing if they
hadn’t all met violent deaths....
P.H.: Forced joviality... .T.M.W.:
Metho.-addict politely but firmly
escorted off the premises... .L.H.:
Better than the last one, but only
just... .C.A.: A certain amount of
riverside charm in “Willow Bank”:
try for less flowery description....
M.D.: A bit too reminiscent of
Poe R.R.: “Aha! Doth mine
eyne espie . . .” Oh, you mean you
saw something, eh?....8.G.: Few
oases in that desert... .P.S.R.: It
would probably make a good
thriller, but it’s hardly in our line.
I.L.: It could have been said
—and twice as effectively—in half
the space T.K.: “The Dog and
the Postman” ’is hardly designed to
make either feel any happier about
the other... .P.P.: All sugar
J.L.P. Slithers about and gets no-
where H.H.: Why try to cap
the climax with lengthy explana-
tions?.... .N. 8.: Aim for more
conciseness of expression... .M.D.:
There’s a paragraph in it some-
where. . . .K.S.: An exciting car-
trip, but a drab story... .R.R.:
Verse too long and poorly con-
structed. ... W. 8.: Some nice
touches... .F.E.: The second stanza
has a genuine ring about it, but
the rest is artificial T.R.:
Blustering fireman blustering in the
basket... .S.D.: “Mossy swards,
laced with ochre sentinels” pre-
sumably refers .to strips of damp
grass surrounded by trees N.N.:
Harriette sings nicely, but the
others don’t C.D.: “I forward
this to your tender mercy.” But
justice must prevail E.T.: More
suited to a women’s magazine....
8.V.: Metre too stuttery... .F.L.:
Dialogue seems to have you
stumped: make the characters
speak characteristically M.J.:
Rudimentary development-section.
. ...Y.L.: Reads like a fifth-rate
detective-story.


SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli.
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans,
Music, etc.
Built entireLy in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold & Co. Ptj. Ltd.
, Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd,
. Vardon Price Ltd.
. Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of t.'ie School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A, FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
COMMONWEALTH CONFERENCE
TJLTth the Montreal eco-
nomic conference of Com-
monwealth countries only a
few weeks off, both the Federal
Parliament and the House of
Commons have been giving
some attention to matters to
be discussed. Leslie Bury,
M.H.R., speaking in the
Budget debate in Canberra,
advocated the establishment of
a British Commonwealth
development-bank, and in the
United Kingdom Parliament a
similar suggestion was made.
London “Economist,” dis-
cussing the Commons debate,
found in it no hint that the
U.K. Government had worked
out any clear policy for the
conference. The “Economist’s”
own view is that the conference
should be a prelude to a world
conference:
“But unfortunately when it
comes down to the specific
things which the Common-
wealth, meeting as if it was an
economic entity, can do to
expand trade, the debate
showed that the high objective
quickly boiled-down to what
could be done to bolster special
interests^ —and notably those of
particular commodity pro-
ducers. It is true that speakers
on both sides argued about
increasing colonial develop-
ment, the inauguration of a
Commonwealth development-
bank, export-credits, inter-
national liquidity and other
factors in the problem which
might be reduced to order on
the Montreal agenda. But the
greater part of the debate was
directly or indirectly about
commodity-prices and com-
modity-restriction schemes: this
should hearten the Common-
wealth producers very consider-
ably, especially as Labor added
its own little panacea, long-
term bulk-purchase agreements,
which, in so far as they are
intended to help the producers,
cannot but tend to raise prices
to the British consumer.
“Mr. Vaughan Morgan, for
the Government, made the
point that the United Kingdom,
as a consumer country, cannot
do much to stabilise prices for
commodities for which the
whole world is a market. True ;
but in the endeavor to insulate
the producer against world
movements in the short sticky
period Britain can saddle itself
with onerous commitments
which will, without helping
—London “Daily Express ”
“CAN I GIVE YOU A LIFT, PRESIDENT NASSER?”
Commonwealth producers
much or for long, inhibit its
power to make its own con-
tribution to expansion.
“On the contrary, the
problem should be seen from
the Commonwealth outward ;
whatever is discussed in
Montreal must be discussed in
terms of America and Europe
(and even Russia, if that country
is really going to be so kind
as to flood an impoverished
world with cheap wheat —
which seemed to horrify some
M.P.s). The real spark-plug of
expansion improved inter-
national . liquidity— cannot be
discussed in the Commonwealth
context alone. Here the object
of the conference is to make
the Commonwealth’s case- to
present to other, and wider,
economic conferences. Mean-
while, even some of the im-
mediate problems which W'orry
M.P.s are fast changing. The
recent jump in base metals
was the more lively because
behind the rather illogical
stimulus of a war-scare lies a
little restocking pressure. This
may help to prevent Montreal
from becoming a commodity-
producers’ conference. Inter-
dependence should find a high
place on this agenda.”
* * *
Noted economist Roy Harrod,
writing in the “Financial
Times,” sees the conference as
an opportunity to do something
to ease the world recession,
which he claims is already with
us. Britain’s contribution to
this end, as he sees it, lies in
capital-investment in Com-
monwealth countries:
“The underlying ideas that
should actuate the conference
are simple enough. A world
recession is on ; so far it has
not become severe ; but there
are no factors yet visible likely
to make for a major revival,
and past experience suggests a
further deepening, which would
be a disaster for the free world.
The Americans are likely to do
their utmost to pull themselves
up. But what', with the best
will in the world, they can do
is not likely to suffice to pull
the world up. To this end the
Commonwealth can make a
substantial contribution. So,
too, can Europe through its
O.E.E.C. machinery. Common-
wealth plans and European
plans should complement each
other.
. “At the centre of the whole
great design should be the fact
that in the years now to come
Britain will have spare indus-
trial capacity for producing a
sizeable quantity of capital-
goods for additional invest-
ment-projects in the rest of the
Commonwealth. The methods
for initiating and financing
these projects should be as
diverse as are the various parts
of the Commonwealth ; what
should be common to the
various plans is that the main
part of the capital-goods would
be supplied by Britain, anyhow
in the first instance, and that
the finance, tailored to the
cost of those goods, would be
supplied by some mechanism in
London —including, in the case
of the colonies, drafts upon
their ‘sterling balances,’ the
use of which, since they are
the colonies’ own property
already, would save them from
being encumbered with ex-
ternal-debt charges thereafter.
“The direct result of such
investment would be to leave
the British balance of payments
largely unaffected ; the plus due
to higher exports would offset
the minus due to the outflow
of finance capital to pay for
them ; Britain would benefit by
higher employment and fuller
use of her capacity, and the
rest of the Commonwealth
would benefit both by higher
employment and the higher
productivity in future caused
by the investments.
“But one would also expect
what is called a ‘multiplier
effect.’ The work proceeding
under the investment projects
would diffuse purchasing power
inside the Commonwealth and
thereby cause imports from
outside the Commonwealth to
be higher than they would
otherwise be. It is indeed this
very ‘multiplier’ effect which
would constitute the Common-
wealth contribution to stem-
ming the world recession and
even causing a world revival.
But it is to be noted that these
imports from the outside would
be a charge on the balance of


PAINT BARGAINS
3 Gallon Drums at 59/6 per
Drum. Olive Green Gloss Paint
(Lead & Oil Base). Manufac-
tured by 1.C.1. of England.
F.O.R. MELBOURNE
SEGALS,
48 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Compounded from an old Indian Formula, STRATTONS RHEUMATIC
and ARTHRITIS POWDER contains no harmful drugs, will not affect
the heart and has successfully overcome the most difficult and
obstinate cases when all other treatments have failed. Persons in all
walks of life have found freedom from suffering, and hundreds of
grateful letters from satisfied users have been received by our
Consultant whose Treatment Advice is made available to you
FREE OF CHARGE as part of our Personalised Service which has
revolutionised the treatment of all types of Rheumatism and Arthritis
throughout the Commonwealth.
Four Weeks Treatment complete with Advice and Instructions and a
SPECIAL CONCESSION VOUCHER if your complaint needs further
treatment . . . costs only £1 POST FREE. "*
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC POWDER Ltd.
9 Barrack St., Perth, W.A.
payments of the Common-
wealth as a whole.”
Harrod puts his target for
the increased flow of capital-
goods from the U.K. to the
rest of the Commonwealth at
£3OO million a year. He con-
siders this figure moderate. But
“there is another very different
point of view, which, by his-
toric usage and without implied
reference to our existing estab-
lishment, we may call the
‘Treasury view.’ It thinks in
terms of scraping the barrel,
of the very narrow net reserve
now under its fist, of the
dangers to our reserve from
changes in the ‘leads and lags’
of trade or from the specula-
tive drawing down of outside
sterling holdings, and of our
great responsibility as central
banker for the whole sterling
area. It quails before the men-
tion of a figure of substantial
size. If such a point of view
dominates the conference it
will be a failure. But how is it
to be met?
“First, it must be repeated
that the direct effect upon our
reserve of the outflow of invest-
ment will be approximately nil,
if the finance is properly
tailored. It may be objected
that the production of capital-
goods in Britain will require
British imports of materials.
But this applies to any policy
for full employment here, and
the citizen body will insist on
some policy for full employ-
ment, so that that is a debit
we shall have to incur in any
case.
“Thus it is only the ‘multi-
plier’ effect in the rest of the
Commonwealth that would
constitute the net effect of a
Commonwealth plan as such
upon our reserves. This brings
us to the crux of the matter.
Do we want the projects to
have a substantial ‘multiplier’
effect or not? Only if they
dp can they help to stem the
world Here again,
the interaction between the
Commonwealth and Europe
comes in. Is it worse for us in
the long run to lose some re-
serve now or have the world
recession gather momentum?
I have no doubt that the latter
is worse, and will be worse
for our reserves in the long
run.
“We should impose new im-
port-restrictions only as a very
last resort. We should ex-
press willingness to let our
reserve decline for a time rather
than do that. To the extent
that we restricted, we should
be reducing the good effect of
the Commonwealth' expansion
policy in checking the slump
outside. Some loss of reserve
—New York “Herald Tribune"
BEAR IN A BAMBOO CAGE.
to Britain has a favorable effect
on the outside world and
thereby a favorable effect on
the U.K. in the second round.
But if this favorable effect was
not enough, then in the end we
should have to restrict imports,
and the Commonwealth should
be taking that into its reckon-
ing.”
Talking Turkey
In a rather complex
financial deal involving the
U.S. Government, the Inter-
national Monetary Fund, the
European Payments Union and
the Office of European Eco-
nomic Co-operation, Turkey is
to receive a loan of 359-million
dollars-to ease it though its
current economic difficulties.
London and New York papers,
while conceding that the money
is better placed than most of
the funds that have been
poured into that part of the
world, express the hope that
Turkey will use the money to
put its internal finances in
order:
* * *
London “ Economist ” : “The
Iraqi revolution proved a wind-
fall for the Turks in some ways.
For years Western statesmen
and leader-writers have been
churning forth platitudes about
Turkey’s vital role in the
alliance. Now Turkey has an
unmatched opportunity to
prove these cliches true. It was
Turkey that provided the
Adana base, so ideally situated
within easy stiiking-distance
of anywhere. It was Turkey
that took the lead in the
‘Baghdad Pact without Bagh-
dad’ and peppcd-up the flag-
ging spirits of its dumbfounded
allies. It was Turkey that did
not turn a hair at Russian
pressure or at the Bulgarian
manoeuvres on the Thracian
border.
“Mr. Menderes also seized the
the opportunity to press Turkey
allies for more economic aid.
This need was desperate. The
country’s economic difficulties,
in particular the chronic short-
ages, were apparently beginning
to threaten his political position
and provoke rumblings of
discontent among a fairly large
group of Democrat-party
deputies. (The petrol supply is
so short that for weeks there
have been queues at filling-
stations all over the country,
and in some parts the harvest,
which should be excellent,
cannot be cut quick enough for
lack of petrol to work the
machines.) Fresh Western
credits for Turkey were agreed
to in principle before the Iraqi
revolution, but it was probably
on the strength of Turkey’s
cool performance in the crisis
that they were rushed through
before the August holidays.
Turkey got unexpectedly
generous credits (a total of $359
million) and by devaluing the
lira, in fact if not in name, it
may have started on the road to
economic recovery. As a
result the Government finds
itself more firmly in a saddle
which three weeks ago was
slipping under the horse’s
belly.”
* * *
New York “Herald-Tribune”:
“Like a youngster who has shot-
up too fast, Turkey has been
having trouble finding the right
clothes to fit it. It is suffering
from growing-pains. It is
besieged by an internal infla-
tionary crisis, and a drought of
external credit, largely because
it has ploughed so much of its
national product—about 14 per
cent, currently—into expansion
of its industry and agriculture.
“Since 1950 alone, Turkey has
increased its farm tractors from
2500 to 40,000, most of them
American-made. This, plus
farm subsidies, has shot its
grain-crop up from 9,000,000
tons to an expected 16,000,000
tons this year. Fruit-crops also
have risen. In constant prices,
the gross national product has


Before You Diet..*
THINK!
Do you overeat ? Are you
thinking of going on a diet?
Think twice before you do.
Dieting is more than just
cutting down on your food;
you need to understand why
you overeat. September
Reader’s Digest points out
that you may be one of those
people doctors say are “better
off overweight.”
This is only one of 32 provoca-
tive, topical articles in Sep-
tember Reader’s Digest includ-
ing How to Get Away from Your-
self, Problems of Young People
in Love, and Big Boom in Good
Books.
September Reader’s Digest —
on sale now wherever good
books are sold. 2/-. Get your
copy today.
risen 60 per cent. Government
credit has financed an ambitious
expansion of steel and other
industries.
“But in the process Turkey
has run-up a whopping foreign-
trade debt of $1,000,000,000
and gotten so far behind in its
payments that it has had most
of its credit shut-off.
“Two years ago Premier
Adnan Menderes himself came
to the United States to plead
for $300,000,000 in loans to
ease Turkey’s economic crisis.
He got nowhere at all. He was
told, in effect, that until the
Turkish Government stopped
contributing to its own infla-
tion —e.g., by providing the
credit for new steel-plants, etc.,
and in effect monetising this
debt —it would get no outside
help.
“But now Turkey is getting
the dollar transfusion it has
long needed —but only by
promising to go on the credit-
wagon and stop its overindul-
gence in bootstrap operations.”
* * V
New York “Times”: “The
aid just announced for Turkey
from the Western nations was
necessary and is deserved.
“The partnership of Turkey
and the United States is one of
those n e c e s s'i t i e s of con-
temporary life that are not even
open to question.
To be fair, we must recognise
that our own policies and our
strategic requirements are
partly responsible for Turkey’s
present economic distress. We
want her to be militarily strong
and can hardly complain that
40 per cent, of her Budget goes
for military expenditures.
“Having said this, one must
point out that the Governments
headed by Premier Menderes
since 1950 have greatly mis-
managed the economy. Over-
expansion, a too-hasty attempt
to industrialise, a frantic build-
ing-programme in the cities,
political favoritism in the use
of Government funds these
and other mistakes have led
Turkey to live far beyond her
means. It must be noted, too,
that the restrictions on press
freedom, public meetings, uni-
versity teaching and even
attacks on the independence of
the judiciary have made
Turkey under Premier Men-
deres one of the least demo-
cratic of democratic States.
“Turkey has a modern, pro-
gressive Government, imposed
by a handful of intellectuals on
a rural, pious, conservative,
politically backward people.
The weaknesses can be temp-
orary ; the strength is funda-
mental, and in a loyal ally that
is what counts most.”
Shipbuilding Crisis
Australian shipbuilding-
yards, with the exception of
that at Whyalla, are having
such a lean time that the
Government has enforced a
complete ban on the import of
—London "Daily Mail”
“THE FIRST ONE'S A STOWAWAY; THE OTHER'S A'SOUVENIR.”
new tonnage. In Britain the
shipyards are busy, and have
a big backlog of orders to fulfil,
but the falling-off in new
orders is causing some authori-
ties to look anxiously to the
future. Rear-Admiral H. E.
Horan, writing in the “York-
shire Post,” expresses grave
concern at the prospects of the
industry:
“Our shipbuilding industry
has a twofold task, first to build
ships for British owners, and
second to export new ships to
foreign countries. From the
latest published statistics, our
shipbuilders seem to have a
good chance of falling down
on both these tasks —in fact,
the writing is on the wall indi-
eating a slump in the construe-
tion of ships in the United
Kingdom. Statistics show that
at the moment the amount of
tonnage being built by foreign
yards for British owners is
higher than it has ever been
before. This clearly indicates
that more British owners find it
pays them to deal with foreign
builders. Foreign work is of a
high standard, delivery dates
are kept, and costs are lower.
“The tonnage being built for
British owners in foreign yards
is about the same as that being
built in this country for foreign
owners. Our exports are,
therefore, cancelled by our
imports, and may before 1958
is out be exceeded by them,
This clearly proves that our
efforts in the shipbuilding
industry are just not good
enough. This must be remedied
at once. Costs must be brought
down, construction speeded
up, delivery dates kept and
firm prices quoted....
“What is most disturbing is
the fact that in 1956 Japan sur-
passed the British total for
ships constructed. This is the
first time in history that any
foreign country has done this,
In 1957 Japan did it again,
Germany, a well-known com-
petitor in the years before the
Second World War, is rapidly
approaching the production of
the United Kingdom.
“The United Kingdom out-
put has shown no appreciable
change in the last four years,
while most of our competitors
have steadily increased theirs,
As a result the United King-
dom output of the world’s new
tonnage has steadily fallen in
recent years: 1947—37 p.c.;
1952—29 p.c.; 1957—16 p.c.
“At the moment some
300,000 tons are under con-
struction for foreign owners,
but these ships will not all be
completed in 1958 and the
export output total will be less
than it was in 1957. Even more
alarming is the fact that not a
single foreign order wr.s
received in the first quarter of
1958 and, apparently none in
the second quarter,
“ To a certain extent this
f a liing-ofT in orders is due to
cancellations arising out of the
present depression in the ship-
ping industry, but this cannot
be held responsible for the
complete cessation of foreign
orders. This fact, coupled with
the number of orders which
British and foreign owners
have placed with foreign yards,
clearly indicates that British
yards are losing ground in the
face of foreign competition,
“What attracts business to
foreign yards? It is the fact
that they can offer faster con-
struction. According to
Lloyd’s, the average time for
construction in the United
Kingdom is 18 months,
whereas in both Germany and
Japan it is nine months,
“Competition is fierce now ;
it will be fiercer in future. The
world’s shipyards are capable
of replacing the existing ships
in the world in 12 years—the
normal life of a ship is 20 years.
There is, therefore, an excess
in shipyard capacity which is
too great to be absorbed by
trade expansion,
“To those who are con-
cerned with the menace of
foreign competition, and who
consider that there is real need
to increase the output of
British yards by introducing
new techniques, increasing
management efficiency, improv-
ing labor relations and remov-
ing restrictive practices,
nothing is more exasperating


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO DONALD HENRY JAMIESON late
of Sydney in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that MARY
GRACE JAMIESON has filed a Petition
No. 2925 of 1958 praying for a
Divorce from DONALD HENRY
JAMIESON on the ground of his de-
sertion for three years and upwards.
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court Macquarie Street Sydney
by the 7th day of November 1958 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. ADRIAN TWIGG
& CO., Solicitors, of No. 160 Castle-
reagli Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Missing Friend
WOULD MARIA HELENA lIERTA
PIATEK, sometimes known as MARIA
ZOBL, or anyone knowing her where-
abouts, please communicate with
MESSRS. JONES & KENNEDY, Soli-
citors, 213 Nicholson Street, Footscray,
Victoria.
EAST.
THIS WAY’S BEST!
8 flights weekly
mound the world
Circle the globe with the sun, or travel
round the other way —8.0.A.C.-QANTAS
is the best way to go.
Offering a choice of eight weekly flights,
the 8.0.A.C.-QANTAS round-the-world
route via Australia enables you to fly
directly between San Francisco and New
York without changing airlines.
With four flights weekly in each direction,
your round-the-world timetable is easy to
arrange.
See your 8.0.A.C.-QANTAS travel agent.
Ask him to tell you about Tourist Travel
at a saving of over 20%.
B'O'A'C
7Hi WO KLD WIDI 41 ■ll M f
with OANTAS
J82.82.58A
—“Die Zeit”
THE STOWAWAY.
than the oft-repeated cry, ‘Our
order-books are full for the
next four years.’ In view of the
present complete lack of orders
for foreign owners, the ques-
tion may well be asked:
‘What happens at the end of
the four years?”’
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman” ;
“Though the shipbuilding
industry is busy, the distant
prospect gives some cause for
anxiety. According to Lloyd’s
Register, nearly six-million
tons of shipping worth about
£B6O million were on the order-
books of British shipyards at
the end of last month. It is
fortunate that the backlog is
so heavy as to ensure that the
industry will have enough work
for about four years. The flood
of new orders has dwindled to
a trickle, and for the last year
it has scarcely exceeded the
amount of cancellations. The
fall in demand for new ships
is due, of course, to the reces-
sion in freight-rates. An inter-
national crisis like Korea and
Suez could bring about a
revival in shipping activity, but
this is a desperate remedy, and
few would hope for an ill-wind
in the Middle East because it
would blow shipping good.
“There is a noticeable
decline in the tonnage of ships
being built in British yards for
foreign owners. From the
point of view of export trade,
the small proportion of foreign
orders is regrettable, but there
is some consolation in the fact
that it may make for stability
in the shipping industry.
British shipowners are perhaps
less likely to cancel orders than
overseas customers are.
Another element of strength in
the industry is the high pro-
portion of tankers on the order-
books. Even if there is no
interruption of supplies
through the pipelines in the
Middle East, present fears
emphasise the importance of
expanding tanker-fleets. For
a few years ahead the ship-
yards should be cushioned
against adversity, but after that
the industry may be severely
tested.
“At present the tonnage
being built abroad for British
companies is almost equal to
the total under construction
here for foreign owners. If
lower tenders, without escala-
tor clauses, attract British
firms, they will have a more
potent effect on foreign owners.
When their backlog is com-
pleted, British yards will have
a hard fight with competitors
untroubled b y restrictive
practices.”
Various Voices
General Norstad: “As long
as we [Natoj maintain retali-
atory forces with a capacity of
exacting a great toll from an
aggressor, and as long as this
is clearly understood, the
danger of a general war—one
launched deliberately—should
continue remote. The great
remaining danger thus becomes
the risk of war arising from
an error in judgment, a border
incident or a probing operation
which weakness might invite.”
* * *
Sir David Eccles (President,
Board of Trade): “The time
has passed when capitalists had
no rivals outside their own
system. In fact, competition
between themselves was their
system. But now they must
compete with an enemy not in
their club who wants to destroy
them utterly. The Communist
does not play according to
their rules. That is to say,
he does not have to make a
profit to prevent himself from
going bankrupt. He does
not have to negotiate his wages
with powerful trade-unions. He
does not have to get his fresh
capital out of retained profits
or from a critical public. His
boss can lend for political gain
alone. The private capitalist
cannot act like this ... It
follows that the supreme need
in the West is a continually
expanding economy.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Dutch New Guinea
There’s a short but effective
answer, surely, to the question
by “Sanasi” (B. 20/ 8/ ’5B) as
to what’s wrong with Australia
offering to buy Dutch New
Guinea. Haven’t we enough
worries with developing and
defending our end of New
Guinea without paying to buy-
over Holland’s trouble with
Indonesia? All political parties
in Indonesia, including the
Moslems, support the claim to
the western end of the island,
and we would face endless
difficulties in consequence.
While on the subject, I would
like to protest against the
recent handling by a tew news-
papers in Australia of the
developments affecting Dutch
New Guinea, and especially the
Indonesian claim. Whatever
our opinion of that claim, there
is surely no need to use it to
beat-up, quite unfairly, Aus-
tralian animus against Indo-
nesia in the best “merchants
of death” style.
Despite reassurances by the
Federal Government and by
the Secretary-General of Seato
that Indonesia has no aggres-
sive designs on Australia and
is not likely to make any
armed attack on Dutch New
Guinea, these newspapers have
been whipping-up all matters
in a dangerously alarmist and
irresponsible manner. For
example, one Sydney evening
paper, reporting the Indonesian
Ambassador in Canberra as
saying the Indonesian people
were determined (as they are)
to carry on the struggle to
“liberate” West New Guinea,
described this as “another
threat.”
The same paper, reporting
an Embassy announcement that
some Communist jet-planes had
been bought and that some
Indonesian officers were going
to the United States for train-
ing, said the Embassy was
“boasting about the country’s
air-power.”
Its rival paper used posters
and streamer-headings for a
report from Hollandia saying
that tension was mounting as
Dutch settlers feared an Indo-
nesian invasion. Little promi-
nence was given to the admis-
sion that the Dutch Administra-
tion did not admit the
possibility of Indonesian
action, and less to the emphatic
assertion of Mr. Pote that he
was certain there would be no
armed aggression by Indonesia
in the area, or to his repeated
disclosure that Holland has
never attempted to become a
member of Seato.
By all means let us discuss
this crucial question. Let us
form whatever views we wish
on the merits of the rival
claims. But do not let us be
led by stupidity or irresponsi-
bility in a few quarters into
believing that the Indonesians
“Going out?”
are our mortal enemies or
likely to become so, and that
the arrival of a few planes and
ships-of-war for the defences
of a nation with 3000 islands
and 80-odd million people is a
menace to Australia.
Even if Indonesia eventually
becomes Communist (and this
is far less likely than the head-
line - screamers know or
imagine) this would not
necessarily mean armed aggres-
sion against Australia, or even
Australian New Guinea. But
it is not Communist now, and
its friendship is important to
our defence, our trade, and our
acceptance by Asia as a friendly
neighbor. Most Australian
newspapers have recognised
these facts, and have presented
arguments soberly and with
regard to future relations. But
it is the others whose attacks
are reported in Indonesia. —
Toleration (N.S.W.).
Decentralisation
Arguments of G. Troy Roche
(B. 13/8/’5B) re wool and
decentralisation can be applied
with equal force to Geelong
(Vic.) fifth-largest port in
the Commonwealth.
Here, watersiders, the Harbor
Trust, Chamber of Commerce
and Trades Hall Council have
made repeated but unsuccessful
efforts to have greater quantities
of wool shipped direct from
the port.
At present around two and
three per cent, of nearly half-
a-million bales sold in the Gee-
long centre each year is loaded
into ships at Geelong. The
rest goes by transport to Mel-
bourne.
The problem is tied-up with
the economics of cargo avail-
able at Australian ports for
overseas freighters. The Over-
seas Shipping Representatives
Association points out that it
is cheaper to take the wool
50 miles to Melbourne by road,
and handle it three times on
to freighters taking on other
cargoes in Melboiurne, than
divert the ship to Geelong to
load a relatively small quantity
of wool.
The concentration of every
large industry (near the source
of labor and markets, of
course) in or near Melbourne
has a cumulative effect on all
aspects of our economic life
and spells the doom of any
real decentralisation. Take Vic-
toria’s decision to site its second
university in Melbourne: a
golden opportunity was missed
to place it at Ballarat or
Geelong. But because Mel-
bourne, by virtue of its size,
would supply 90 per cent, of
the students, the university must
go as near as possible to the
heart of the metropolis.
If Victoria, with its small
area and well-knit settled areas,
can’t support decentralisation
what hope have the larger
States? Plain Australian
(Vic.).
Wildlife Writing
Further to Frank Snow (B.
6/8/’58): the late Crosbie
Morrison, of Melbourne, tried
wildlife-publishing; although
his was one of the most interest-
ing magazines I’ve ever read,
due chiefly to non-pedantic
wording, it folded-up some
years ago. And in its final
stages it incorporated items for
mountain-climbers and bush-
walkers!
Makes one wonder why pub-
lications such as these (“Wild
Life,” “World’s News” and
“Pocket Book”) have all gone
out, while near-pornographic
soft-covers, featuring the maxi-
mum amount of the female
figure, carry on and flourish. —
Y. Lope (N.S.W.).
Church Music
In saying that “sentimental
Victorian rubbish” is still
partly in vogue in Anglican
churches “Organist” (B.
13/8/’5B) is saved by “partly.”
A good deal depends upon
what is considered “rubbish.”
Many think Mendelssohn’s “O,
Rest in the Lord,” “O, for the
Wings of a Dove,” and
Sullivan’s hymns paltry and
sentimental: yet such tunes are
loved by those who were
brought up with them, and
are often played by organists
who consider the feelings of
their congregations.
The great Elizabethan com-
posers were for the most part
trained in the Roman Catholic
school ; before the Reforma-
tion Henry VIII himself wrote
much church-music. Why
separate the Anglican and the
Roman Catholic heritage?
Lesser Victorian composers
like Sir Frederick Bridge, of
Westminster Abbey, and Dr.
Hopkins, of Rochester, have
explored the archives of their


ft&ltiJl 4L£ / 3' iJhC'
\
Sweden is a delightful country.
Its mining and engineering, its forestry and
farming, all have that stamp of efficiency which
comes from the combination of a people's
thoroughness and their human skills.
My visit to Sweden this time happened to
coincide with the announcement back in Canberra
that Australia had begun a new drive to attract
more migrants from the Scandinavian countries.
The wisdom of that move should need no
emphasis. What I say in praise of the Swedes can
be said with equal force of the Norwegians, the
Danes and the Finns. They are good stock whose
migrants have already contributed much to
Australia’s development.
More than half the seven thousand Scandi-
navians Australia has received since the last war
have migrated on assisted passages. The numbers
have been small when taken alongside the total
inflow from all sources, but 1 believe we may find
one reason for that in the well-advanced systems
the Scandinavians have made for the social care
of their people, particularly the aged and the ill.
They are also conscious of the need for good
and adequate housing. And altogether there are
strong inducements for many, who otherwise would
migrate, to remain in the land of their fathers.
One very good aspect of the campaign to bring
between five thousand and six thousand Scandi-
navians to Australia in 1958-59 is that it is backed
by an agreement with the Danish and Finnish
Governments to encourage more liberal advertising
of our migration schemes in those countries.
While welcoming the happy prospect of Nordic
migration, I think we should exclude from our
minds any idea of “balancing” any one race against
another in the selection of migrants for our country.
Australia needs all the good, healthy,
industrious people it can attract from Britain and
Europe. And the more diverse the nations from
which they are drawn, the richer will be the blend
in their assimilation into the still-forming pattern
of Australian life.
cathedral libraries and reintro-
duced pre-Elizabethan music.
This is used, by those who
prefer it, along with the fine
modern work of Eric Thiman
and Percy Grainger. On the
other hand, that good old tune
“The Gelding of the Devil,”
which came down to us from
medieval times, makes a fine
voluntary -Another Organist
(N.S.W.).
The Bank and Lang
Despite its great growth, it's
still a moot point whether the
nation has received more value
from the Commonwealth Bank
than from private-enterprise
banks. During the depression
the most useful single-measure-
remedy suggestion came from
the manager of the Bank of
New South Wales: fix the
exchange-rate first at 132 and
then at 125, to give farmers
more spending-power in Aus-
tralian cash.
Another danger to a State-
owned bank is the possibility of
an overriding demagogue
getting control of it in some
crisis. Flamboyant language
and extreme political action can
frighten people into withdraw-
ing their money from a bank.
We saw the run on the N. S.
Wales Government Savings
Bank, during Lang’s regime,
and its forced closure. .
If Jack Lang had been Prime
Minister at that time people
might have seen a run on the
Commonwealth Bank to
transfer their savings to the
State Government Savings
Banks throughout Australia —
not under Lang’s control. —
George Beesley (N.S.W.).
Government Cars
Any private citizen and tax-
payer who has watched the go-
ings and comings at Mascot,
Essendon and Canberra air-
ports will agree that criticism
of the excessive and unneces-
sary use of Government cars
was long overdue.
Only a few years ago the use
of cars was restricted to
Ministers (who used them
sparingly) and the leader of
the Opposition. Members
used either the buses provided
by the airways-companies or,
on occasion in Canberra, a
local bus detached from the
normal run to carry them to
the House or their hotels. Now
all members are met by car at
each end, and taken to and
from their homes.
Not only M.P.s benefit from
the system. Private secretaries
and typists also order and use
cars frequently, with the con-
sent of their Minister or
member-employer a mere for-
mality. A private citizen,
engaging an expensive taxi at
Fairbairn to take him to Parlia-
ment House, can often see half-
a-dozen Government cars, each
The Live Theatre
Most people are under the
impression that the revival of
interest in live shows and plays
written by Australians is due
to the activities of the Eliza-
bethan Theatre Trust, and that
“The Doll” is our first play
of world standard.
Both views are incorrect.
The E. T. Trust has been able
to build on the foundation laid
by scores of amateur theatrical
groups who for more than 30
years have expended time and
money on plays performed by
“live” acting. The groups have
stuck at it in the face of
public apathy and competition
by radio and cinema.
Success of “The Doll” was
undoubtedly aided by getting a
wonderful break. With the
same opportunity, there’s no
reason why other good Aus-
tralian plays, given favorable
airings by amateur groups,
should not do just as well now.
Take Betty Roland’s “The
Touch of Silk”: here is a play
with the same basic theme as
“The Shifting Heart.” It’s a
very moving piece of work;
with a little revision it would
be completely up-to-date
Others worth a second run
are “Quiet Night” and “The
First Joanna,” both by
Dorothy Blewett; “The Foun-
tains Beyond,” by George Lan-
don Dann, and “Enduring as
the Camphor Tree,” by Russell
Oakes.
The E.T. Trust realises
that without our own play-
wrights nothing can be done
to build-up an Australian
theatre. Playwrights must be
helped in their work: it has
been calculated that 1130 plays
are written for every one
staged.
One great advantage these
days is the number of modern
playhouses in which live shows
can be staged. Places like Mel-
bourne Little Theatre Guild’s
new home, or the just-
completed Union Theatre built
by the University of Adelaide,
are so well designed that every
word spoken on the stage can
be heard clearly in the back
seats. With these advantages,
plus a good stimulating play,
“House Full” signs would need
to be painted-up.—
-H. A.
LINDSAY (S.A.).


conveying some obscure public
servant to home or office. He
can also observe the airways
bus, practically empty, on its
way to Civic Centre.
Any economies which can be
made in this system, and there
are plenty, should be prompt
and permanent. We just can’t
afford this sort of unneces-
sary luxury for the well-paid
and well-protected segment. —•
Stromlo (N.S.W.).
The Matchless Match
Rather than increase the
retail-price of matches, manu-
facturers have reduced average
contents per box from 60 to
50. Has no one given a thought
to shortening the length of
the sticks? If match-sticks were
reduced by fin. the maker
would achieve the same
economy as with the 17 p:c.
reduction in number, as well
as leaving the cost to con-
sumers undisturbed.
A match struck to light a
cigarette goes dead in about
If sec. —the business-end of
the stick is not even scorched.
Pipe-smokers average nine
seconds to light-up: they use
about two-thirds of the match.
Gas-jets, open-hearth fires and
whatnot average between two
and four seconds to ignite.
What odds, then, for a
shorter match-stick? Probably
nothing is as universally em-
ployed as the humble match.
The cardinal point of its utility,
"No, Waiter—just bring me some more like that!"
after safety and reliability,
should be comparative cheap-
ness to other things.—P.O.M.C.
(N.S.W.).
Teaching and Coaching
As a graduate who has given
private coaching-lessons over
the last 15 years, and as a
parent of three primary-school
children, I should like to com-
ment on “Anti-Cram’s” letter
(B. 20/8/’5B).
“ Anti - Cram ” mentions
teachers who follow “a full-
time teaching career in our
State schools.” If he means
that teachers are at their
Exit Another Magazine
After long and useful service
to Australian literature “The
Australian Journal” —first pub-
lished in September, 1865 —
has ceased publication. Its
passing will be regretted both
by Australian readers and
writers-particularly the latter,
for the journal s exit means
that the freelance market
will become more restricted.
I remember “The Australian
Journal” 35 years ago; it cost
6d. and was a darned
good sixpenny swag of reading-
matter. ' During the last two
or three years the price has
hit the 25.-mark: not high by
present-day standards, and by
no means beyond the pocket
of most magazine-readers.
Unfortunately it seems that
today there isn’t a big enough
demand by readers for maga-
zines devoted to short-stories,
serial-stories and similar stuff
of a fairly high standard. One
by one such publications have
gone ; their places on the book-
stalls taken by productions
emphasising pictures, sex and
sensationalism.
And this tendency is apparent
overseas. In the U.S.A. and
Great Britain many magazines
of predominantly literary
appeal have ceased publica-
tion. The freelance, anxious
to market his work, may, in a
few years’ time, wonder
whether it’s worth while free-
lancing, but he can hardly
blame publishers for preferring
not to back losing propositions.
The new writer, including the
adaptable freelance, may find
outlets for his talents in writ-
ing for radio and TV. —
ARDOYNE (Vic.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 502
Across
I—Wrongly said the girl thanks Edward. (9)
6 —Lofty tennis shot beside the vestibule. (5)
9 —Girl who doesn't do much 12-across when riding 17-across
on her 16-down gets a stitch. (4-5)
10 — Dragged forward to get married. (5)
11 — Perfect one to trade. (5)
12 — Glide plan involved in cycle, propulsion. (9)
15 —Not in any way missing redskin’s greeting. (5)
17—Vehicle converted their hides into leather? (6)
18 —Rock split by this Israel tribe. (3)
20— Hotel-keeping turn at bat in the
ball-park. (6)
21— Tree. (3)
23 — Hay mask disguised the reason
why you can’t see the Moslem
girl's face. (7)
24 — Dwelling within poetry by a
seaman. (5)
26—Solid revision for objects of
veneration. (5)
28— Greets the sound quality with
precipitation. (9)
29 — Who gives an alternative to
Bradman? (5)
30 — Venice certainly isn’t according
to any tourist-attracting Venetian
blind. (9)
Down
1— Factory island in the Hebrides
to anger one of the pluto-
crats. (11)
2 Girl's name. (5)
3 Game grimaces of a drunk. (11)
4 Stumbling on an excursion. (8)
5 Nymph's prohibition propa-
ganda. (6)
6 An item in the auction cata-
logue. (3)
7 By which a house may receive
its light bark about 26-
down. (3-6)
8 — Why 1 had a vulgar Continental
Jew. (3)
13 — Pearly sea has dangers for wary
bachelors. (4-5)
14 — Poaching frustrated by such
plucky cricketers like Oldfield,
Langley, Evans. (11)
16—Skylight under a sweet spread
sequel to a loss of singleness. (9)
19 —None fish for poultry. (8)
22 —Letter what’s round mother has
Red Indians. (6)
25 — Oxygen region for ducks. (5)
26 — Milton’s Satan sat on a throne
whose wealth far outshone the
wealth of Ormus and of this
aspect of the Beethoven violin
concerto. (3)
27 Fresh start for a new K.B. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 501


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred 8. White ; A. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Manager.
’Phone: BW 8861. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
schools between the appointed
hours, then, no doubt, they’re
doing a full-time job. But I’m
inclined to think that, with a
few exceptions, teachers of
today aren’t giving the service
to education that the com-
munity must expect.
Teachers in State schools are
hardly an ill-paid tribe. They
enjoy good hours, long holi-
days. Granted that schools
are overcrowded and often
inadequately equipped: every
profession, trade or business is
up against some such disadvan-
tages, in greater or lesser
degree.
To be good and effective,
teaching must be vocational ;
today, as in nursing, this spirit
seems largely to have gone out
of it. Teachers have joined the
commercial ranks and are
interested only in getting as
much dough as possible for a
minimum of effort. Difficult
or dull children are often
thrust back at the parents.
So if children are sent to a
coach, who can blame their
parents? The child is there
because he wants to learn ; the
coach because he wants to
teach and explain.—Pat
(N.S.W.).
Mascots and Motorists
In a recent inquest at
Warracknabeal (Vic.) the
coroner accented the dangers
of car-mascots. Medical evi-
dence was given that the
subject of the inquest—an
elderly woman killed on her
way to church—had been
struck in the forehead by the
mascot of a car. This “lethal
weapon” mounted on the
bonnet, the coroner said, was
the direct cause of death.
Is there any real need for
such useless, dangerous orna-
ments? If the police road-
safety patrols are powerless to
insist on the removal of car-
mascots, surely they can at
least point out their perils to
drivers.—D. J. G. (Vic.).
Coventry and Cycles
In the review of the book
Riding High (B. 20/8/’5B)
there’s a reference to “the
Englishman, James Starley,
whose 1885 Rover was only a
little different from the bicycle
of today.”
But James Starley died in
1881, after helping to develop
the “high” or “ordinary” bicycle
(penny-farthing), the Coventry
tricycle and many valuable
inventions such as the differen-
tial-gear. He has been rightly
termed “Father of the Bicycle.”
It was James Starley’s
nephew, J. K. Starley, who
really set the bicycling ball
rolling: with his Rover
machine of 1885 he commer-
cialised the safety-bicycle.
Mention is made of Dunlop
and his pneumatic tyre ; surely
“There are no towels, darling — you'll have to drip-dry.”
the review might have included
details of the Du Cros family,
who organiser the Pneumatic
Tyre and Booth’s Cycle
Agency, Ltd., first pneumatic-
tyre co. in the world? This
was the founder-company of
the mighty Dunlop Co. of
today. George Beesley
(N.S.W.).
Lean Lamb
Agree wholeheartedly with
“Pall Mall” when he says: “It’s
a bit rough that Australian
housekeepers are obliged to
pay-out for a lot of fat on the
meat” (B. 13/8/’5B). But don’t
always blame the grower.
“P.M.” mentions that pig-
breeders can market lean
carcasses —true, but butchers
willingly buy the over-fat stuff
if they can get it cheap. This
over-fat pork retails at prac-
tically the same price as lean
pork. In short, butchers are
butchering the public.
A while back one could
hardly give pigs away; they
marketed at around Is.-Is. 3d.
a pound dressed-weight. Yet
butchers retailed at fantastic
profits: bacon Bs. per lb., pork
6s. 6d. per lb. Lowest price for
any part of the carcass was
ss. 6d.
Take the case of a butcher
buying a pig. He pays me
2s. 6d. per lb. dressed-weight,
and the bulk of the pig retails
between 3s. and 3s. 6d. per lb.,
with his bacon price standing
at 4s. 6d. per lb. He makes a
good living and does a healthy
trade.
Certainly he indulges in the
over-fat meat racket, and too
often we meat-producers get
the blame for high prices.
Time butchers’ prices were
thoroughly investigated.
J.J.A. (Vic.).
Engineering andT Expense
In B. 30/7/’5B “Acolyte”
notes how professional
engineering opinion is
smothered. I lately heard of a
proposal, made by an eco-
nomist, to make sensible use of
Sydney’s Eastern Suburbs
railway-tunnels. It is to be
hoped his suggestion will be
examined in detail by appropri-’
ately trained men and that
action will be based on grounds
other than political expediency.
A case in point is the Mary-
vale-Sandy Hollow railway:
a railway in the early 1920's
was the answer to this problem.
Faced with good road-transport
the railway is relatively in-
secure ; unless the work is
finished promptly a highway
should be built. But we have
seen neither built, though
enough debt has been buiit-up
to pay for a really efficient
producer of national income.
Presumably the Eastern
Suburbs transport problems will
be more sensibly solved. —F. A.
Edwards (N.S.W.).
Cahill and Culture
One of the “industries” which
Premier Cahill hasn’t mentioned
since his overseas jaunt is
opera. Maybe he was too busy
during his tour to worry about
cultural activities ; but if he
persists in going ahead with the
building of the opera-house in
Sydney his chickens will come
home to roost a few years
hence.
About the only real purpose
the opera-house will serve, if
it is ever built, will be the
staging of operas for television
purposes ; all the TV organisa-
tions already have studios large
enough for that purpose. So
why go ahead? The flow of
donations a few months ago
has degenerated to a trickle,
and only the revival of the big
lotteries will provide cash to
complete the building.
The real problem will then
face the promoters how to
raise funds to pay the huge
annual upkeep. It is certain
this won’t come from the
proceeds of operas or the
letting-fees of the two halls:
London’s Covent Garden had
that experience. Far better to
abandon Operation Opera
House and divert the money to
some really useful purpose. —
Dix (N.S.W.).


proof.
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
’S
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
m 1 * 1
i SSf *
■
' "i*\\V''*"Zt •-'• ' ■ »‘ ! * '•. '•-. '
ESTABLISHED 1884
• BARBED WIRE
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
LYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE YEAR OF THE BIG CHIP
By BILL HOWARD
shearing in N.S.W
is about to get into full
stride. Shearers who already
have had “a cut” are calling
it “The Year of the Big Chip.”
“Blime,” a middle - aged
shearer remarked, “you’d think
we were back in the early
Raising sheep on the
island of North
Ronaldsay, one of the
Orkney Islands, pre-
sents no feed prob-
lems. The sheep live
entirely on the sea-
weed washed up on
the beaches. If the
lambs are marked and
tailed with Elastrator
Rubber Rings the
owners' problems are
still further reduced.
The Elastrator
method causes no
blood loss, avoids
shock and set-back
and minimises loss.
’thirties the way the bosses are
throwing their weight about.
It’s the tightest cut for many
years.” (A “tight cut” is an
insistence on correct shearing.
The tighter the cut the smaller
the shearers’ tallies.)
It amounts to this: The
squatters are still paying the
shearers the boom-year shear-
ing-rate of £7 13s. 3d. a
hundred. Their problematical
wool-cheque is getting down
towards half.
A grazier in a fairly big way
(say, 5000 sheep), using a shear-
ing-contractor, has, at the cut-
out, to write a cheque for
nearly £looo—shearing-costs
alone! It reaily hurts. He
feels trapped. He maintains
that the shearer is getting too
much money. The shearers
say: “They can afford it.
They’ve got it. It’s still good
dough.”
Before shearing now the
squatter words-up the boss of
the board ; tells him he wants
his sheep handled carefully ;
that there are to be no second-
cuts, no cut or hamstrung
sheep. Otherwise . . .
Before the kick-off of a
shed this year I heard the
boss of the board deliver a
broadside to the assembled
shearers with all the venom of
the tough bosses of the
’nineties: “I want no kneeing,
gouging or purging. I’ve gof
the names of a score of shearers
in my little book here waiting
for a pen . . . That’s all, men.”
Yet it’s only five or six years
since a leading pastoral journal
published a serious article on
how to chip a shearer without
antagonising him! In effect, the
advice was:
Don’t bend over and chip
him while he is shearing. The
sheep may be kicking or
struggling. He’ll be cranky and
"No, no, after YOU!”
flare-up and tell you to stick
your sheep and shed, snatch it,
and perhaps take his mate with
him. You will find yourself
shearers short, with a mob of
rouseabouts on the payroll, just
standing about. Shearing is
prolonged. Expenses rise.
Instead, wait until the shearer
comes into the catching-pen to
get another sheep, and then
say: 'Darky, do you mind
coming back a few? . . . The
old boss, silly old cow, is on my
back about your shearing . . .’ ”
This year I heard a boss of
the board deliver an ultimatum
one Monday morning to two
pen-mate shearers who had
been racing each other the week
before: “You two Jimmy
Gibbs, come back. Trim ’em up
properly. If you don't you’ll
be a long way from here to-
night.”
The whole board heard. A
public “big chip.” The supreme
indignity from the shearers’
viewpoint. The two shearers
took it lamblike.
On top of their heavily
reduced wool-cheques and
increased shearing-rates (basic-
wage adjustment) many
squatters in western N.S.W.
have had to spend hundreds of
pounds bringing their shearers’
accommodation up to the
standard required by the Act.
A particularly vigilant and
effic’ent hut-inspector has been
on the warpath. That's the
men’s description of him. The
squa iters regard him as a
greater scourge than the blow-
fly, with his rigid insistence on


Between
Ourselves
A
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
start the dau riqht!
o>
OUO' wC
EHO6"
*V
l»gg
their already good accommoda-
tion being improved . . . hot-
water system, louvred dining-
room windows and all to be
installed.
Bush workers in country
towns reckon this hut-inspector
should have been on the recent
Honors List. They maintain
he forced the squatters to dis-
gorge a million - and -a - haif
pounds, and it provided an
infinite amount of bush em-
ployment when things were
tough in the towns.
The grazier says the
“greasies’’ never use these
amenities: “Louvred dining-
room windows!” he snorts.
“They are never open ; and I
found one mob of shearers
keeping their racing grey-
hounds in the laundry . . .”
The professional shearer
retorts that he spends months
on end in shearing-sheds . . .
why should he live like a
boong? The industry can
afford it.
To which the squatter replies
that the industry can’t afford
such a big capital-investment
—used only about three weeks
a year.
The growth of “suburban”
shearing—distinct from “sugar-
bag” shearing has allowed
many graziers to get away for
years with inferior and inade-
quate accommodation.
“Suburban” shearing is where
the men are within striking-
distance of their home-town.
They leave the shed Friday
afternoon and come out
Monday morning. Only four
nights in the huts. Home with
Mum every weekend. It’s the
shearer’s ideal.
“Sugar-bag” shearing means a
small shed without accommoda-
tion, where the shearers travel
out from town each day and
bring their own tucker. They
prefer “suburban” shearing,
maintaining that sugar-bag
shearing is arduous to them-
selves and their vehicles ; also
that “sugar-bag” shearing
“breaks - down conditions.”
They miss their big hot meal
in the middle of the day.
In a very wet season a shear-
ing-team may often “sweat it
out in the huts” for weeks,
hardly working.
it is often fine at the weekends,
when shearing could go on.
They still “sit down.” No one
is happy except the rouseabouts.
The squatter pays . . .
directly, if station-shearing, or
indirectly through the shearing-
contractor.
Tough, end-of-the-line towns
like Bourke, Brewarrina and
Coonamble make their own
local rules. If a team is 60
miles out they all knock-off
at smoke-oh (3-o'clock) on
Friday to be in town before
the pubs shut . . . The squatter
pays.
Then there is the perverse-
ness and stupidity of the “wet
vote” gone into on these
pages some time ago. It’s still
operating, with all the old
familiar uses and abuses.
Undoubtedly there will have
to be an “agonising re-
appraisal” in the pastoral in-
dustry. The economy just
can’t take the ambiguities,
stupidities and paradoxes in
the game.
World's Bsggesf
Pumpkin
“Cocky”: In 1954 George
Tees, of Beaudesert (Q.), took
first-prize for the biggest cattle-
pumpkin in the Melbourne
Royal Show.
This year, at the Brisbane
Exhibition, he has topped this
record with one weighing
2001 b. It’s part of the Moreton
District Exhibit and has even
the Yanks bluffed. The best
they can do in the States is one
tipping the beam at 1541 b.
Native Trees
for Windbreak
“Pat O’Day”: The N.S.W.
Forestry Commission has a
variety of trees and shrubs
available for sale to the public,
and farmers may purchase
them at a 50 per cent, deduc-
tion. Graziers on the South-
west Slopes and in the Riverina
border-country obtain their
requirements from the com-
mission’s nurseries at Nar-
randera.
The following varieties of
eucalypts are used for wind-
breaks in the south-west, where
soils vary from heavy to light
loamy.
Cladocalyx or sugar-gum
(there is also a dwarf sugar-
gum variety): Should not be
planted where crops need con-
siderable moisture.
Exima or yellow-blood-
wood : Well-drained soils are
best for this species, which is
good not only for windbreaks
but also for firewood and
honey. The foliage is dense,
with masses of white blossom
in spring. It is sensitive to
frost when young.
Eucalyptus melliodora, or
yellow-box: Useful for wind-
breaks and regarded as the
best honey-tree of all; is also
very ornamental.
Eurabbie bicostata: Suscep-
tible to frosts in the early stages,
so needs to be covered. A
quick - growing tree which
makes an excellent windbreak.
The exotic species obtainable
from Narrandera for hedge
and windbreak, as well as
ornamentation, are book-leaf
cypress (Thuja orientalis), jaca-
randa ( acutifolia ) and Pin us
canariensis (Canary Island
pine).
Sidelines
“Myall”: Evidently “Mower”
(B. 23/7/*5B) is not a Queens-
land wheatgrower, otherwise he
would % not suggest the raising
of pigs as a sideline to use-up
surplus grain. Queensland
wheatgrowers do not have any
surplus wheat; their whole
crops are delivered to the Wheat
Board dump as early as
possible after harvesting, and
only the grain intended for
sowing the next season is
stored.
Unless kept in a mouseproof
silo or shed, surplus grain soon
gets infested, and unless it is
pickled with B.H.C. powder
the weevils play havoc with it.
Any gradings from the seed-
wheat are taken by the grower’s
wife for her fowls; a much
better proposition than pigs.
The wheatgrower who wants
a sideline to keep him occupied
during slack periods, and who
has any acreage to spare, can
run beef-cattle or sheep, both
of which need far less attention
than pigs. Stack enough grain
away to provide food for the
animals during the winter, put
it through a hammer-mill with
a little lucerne-hay, and husks
and gradings from other crops
like canary, sorghum and
millet, and reduce it into meal
with one per cent, of pulverised
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(21 / 8/’5B)
Rainfall may be patchy in Queensland during Sep-
tember, apart from moderate rains on the south coast,
Darling Downs, central highlands and Maranoa areas.
Similar conditions are likely for October and November with
good general rains and flooding in southern Queensland
during December.
Moderate to good rains are likely in N.S.W. during
September, with the best falls on the South Coast, Southern
Tablelands and South West Slopes. The North Coast, north-
west and far-west areas may have only light rain. Light to
moderate rain is likely during October and November, with
good general rains in December.
General rains may be expected in Victoria during
September, with the likelihood of flooding in the southern
rivers. Good rains may continue in the southern half of the
State for the balance of the year, though perhaps only
patchy in the northern divisions.
The agricultural areas of South Australia may expect
good rains in September and October; elsewhere in the State
rainfall may vary from light to moderate in the Murray
Valley and be poor in the upper-north and interior. General
rains should occur in December.
In Western Australia, the south-west agricultural areas
and eastern goldfields area may receive good rains in Sep-
tember, but elsewhere in the State poor rainfall is likely.
LENNOX WALKER.


Bwj a YtlltX;
Quafky
STORM LANTERN
and get value for
money! Gives 12 hours
brilliant light on only |£
pints of kerosene. Abso-
lutely wind and weather-
proof. A Reflector is
available as an extra if
required.
And 10G% British Made too I
300 Candlepower
Model X 246
‘StPthe di^eknce!
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Store* throughout Australia.
In case of difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
lime added. This will keep over
long periods, and is greedily
devoured by the animals,
especially if moistened with a
little molasses.
The mixed-dairyfarmer is in
a better position for pig-raising.
He has an abundance of skim-
milk, and, growing a couple
of hundred acres of grain for
his milkers, he has also ample
supplies to fatten pigs. Here the
hammer-mill is necessary, and
all kinds of otherwise waste
material can be converted into
good fodder. Sorghum-stubble,
corn-cobs, old waste grain and
the like mixed in with the good
grain may be reduced into meal,
and a small percentage of meat-
meal is added. With skim-milk,
this makes a very good ration
at a reasonable cost, the stubble
and cobs supplying the needed
bulk.
Dry Oats
“Oleoma”: For the chance
of a win from a modest invest-
ment try sowing oats dry about
the end of March or early
April. By the time the lambs
are ready for a tender green
nibble and pastures are getting
short in the winter the oats will
be thick enough to keep the
flock going well.
At the Kybybolite Research
Centre (S.A.) acres of dry
oats sown on April 3 was good
enough by early July to carry
142 ewes and 120 lambs for a
fortnight, despite severe frosts
which checked pastures and
late-sown cereals.
P. Geytenbeek, officer-in-
charge at Kyby., said cultiva-
tion had not been necessary
before sowing at H bushel of
Early Kherson oats and 901 b.
of super, to the acre on a pad-
dock which had grown summer
fodder, so risks of failure, plus
a few weeds in the crop, were
well worth while.
The secret of success is to
use an early or mid-season
oat, such as Early Kherson,
Orient, Fulghum or Dawn. A
later maturer, such as Algerian,
is still creeping along the
ground when the sheep are
looking for a decent mouthful.
At least one enterprising
grazier sows oats into his
wheat-stubble before Christ-
mas. What the sheep don’t
eat then they trample into the
ground for the next winter’s
feed.
Fattening Sheep
“Phoongye” (South Africa):
Perhaps fat-lamb pastoralists
in Australia may be interested
in a method of conditioning
sheep evolved here by a sheep-
farmer of the Karoo. This
battery system of feeding
enables 1000 sheep to be
fattened on just over an acre.
The sheep are kept in rows of
enclosures, each with its
system of self-feeders, mineral
and salt-licks, and a trough
constantly fed with fresh water
from a central reservoir, which
makes it easy to add cobait
and phosphates when necessary.
Sheep brought into the
enclosures are dosed for
internal parasites, and they also
get 30 c.c. of vitamin oil. After
a fortnight or three weeks on
a diet of milled lucerne, they
are given a ration containing
up to 10 per cent, of yellow
maize, which makes them gain
weight rapidly.
The enclosures are 30ft. by
20ft. and hold 50 sheep each ;
at one end is a split-pole
shelter with a corrugated-
asbestos roof.
Not all sheep can adapt
themselves to the self-feeder
system. About one in 20 refuses
to feed in this way although
it may be starving, so must
be removed to the open
paddock.
Controlling Grasses
“Billjim”: It’s been shown in
N.Z. that dalapon is more
effective for the control of
kikiyu and barley-grass than
either T.C.A. or sodium-
chlorate.
With kikiyu the best results
were gained at 201 b. to an
acre, but to reduce costs
amitrol may be used mixed
with dalapon: 51b. of amitrol
with 101 b. of dalapon gave
results equivalent to 401 b. of
dalapon.
Apply dalapon as a spray
in water ; the amount of water
per acre isn’t important, but
a fine spray must be used and
the whole area covered
thoroughly. Rates of 40 to
50 gals, per acre will leave the
chemical on the leaf, not wash-
ing into the soil, and so give
best results.
Autumn applications are
best, but tbe treatment can be
used successfully at other
seasons.
Effective control of barley,
grass can be achieved with a
spring application of dalapon
at 2}l b. an acre, plus TCA at
51b. an acre ; further applica-
tion may be needed the follow-
ing spring. Spelling of the
area for about two months
after treatment pays dividends.
Frost-free Potatoes
“S.C.D.”: “M.F.D.’’went to
a lot of unnecessary trouble
(B. 13/8/’5B).
For over 50 years growers
in The Wash area (Eng.) have
been placing a layer of wire-
netting about a foot above early
crops. Frost forms on the wire-
netting, and when the warm sun
melts it, water drips on the
plants.
I made a bush-house with a
wire-netting arch over early
seedlings, and it works suc-
cessfully at Lawson (N.S.W.)
2000 ft. above sea-level.
English Leicesters
“R.A.McC.”: Breeding fat-
lambs is not as simple as “Grid”
suggests (B. 20/8/’5B). Districts
that suit one particular cross
may not suit another.
The chief reason why Border
Leicester - Merino - cross ewes
are most popular is that they
are wonderful milk-producers
—and nothing puts a “bloom”
on fat-lambs like mothers’
milk.
After many years experi-
menting in the Riverina
(N.S.W.) I reached the con-
clusion that to get the ideal
fat-lamb it’s necessary to stick
to the Merino' ewe as a basis.
I always bought breeding-ewes
from the leading flocks, joined
them with Border Leicester
rams, retained the ewes from
the drop and mated them as
maidens with Dorset Horn
rams ; later I used Southdown
rams on the older first-cross
ewes.
For some reason I usually
got a far better percentage from
maiden ewes when mated with
Dorset Horns ; and their pro-
geny are the quickest maturers
of all.
I always had three types: the
wether-portion of the first cross,
the whole drop from the
maiden ewes from Dorset
Horns, and the whole drop
from the older first-cross ewes
by Southdowns. Of course for
this you need sufficient acreage
to carry the additional sheep-


b ; :i
/
mm
mm
■liilf
> >s
mm
mm
wmm
Cane-ite Acousti-tile in foyer of Interstate Display Service , Adelaide .
Cane-ite Acousti-tile
brings quiet to on office
Interstate Display Service of Adelaide have used Cane-
ite Acousti-tile throughout their new offices and show-
rooms to create a noiseless background—visually and
acoustically—for their merchandise.
Cane-ite Acousti-tile cuts up to 65% of harmful
noise especially reverberating noise that jangles
nerves and disturbs concentration.
Why not discuss the benefits your business or home
would get from this inexpensive acoustical treatment
with your nearest C.S.R. showroom.
c
A product of THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Building Materials Division
Showrooms at Sydney, Newcastle, Wagga, Wollongong, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Townsville, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
CSR7O
The man who combines wheat-
growing with fat-lamb raising
has to buy his
and can’t always get true first-
cross when he wants them.
Silage Demonstration
A large-scale demonstration
of silage-making is planned at
Shelford (near Bannockburn,
Vic.) on J. Barber’s property,
Golf Hill, on October 10 .and
11. This demonstration will
closely follow the pattern of
the National Silage Demonstra-
tion held at Basingstoke,
England, on May 21 and 22
this year.
All manufacturers of silage-
making machinery have been
invited to demonstrate their
equipment and methods. There
will be 12 different machines
and methods of operation in
action at the one time, with
areas of 6 acres to 10 acres
allotted to each.
The purpose of the demon-
stration is to let farmers and
graziers see, at one time under
properly controlled farm-
conditions, the whole process
of silage-making from start to
finish, and compare the
methods, machinery, man-hours
and efficiency of the various
techniques operating under
similar conditions.
The co-operation of the
C.5.1.R.0., the Department of
Agriculture and Melbourne
University is expected.
Golf Hill is 25 miles north-
west of Geelong, and well
known for its pastures and
lucerne-paddocks.
Sheep Round-up
“Manassa”: Lower wool-
values, better shipping-facilities
to overseas markets, the
development of new customers
(such as the Canadians) and
further pasture-improvement
could bring the British-breeds
back to popularity during the
next few years.
Fortunately the excellence of
Australia’s studs should offset
the import-ban.
If not strangled by high
retail values, the home-market
for first-class lamb might be
another factor in favor of the
British-breeds, and could also
stimulate interest in the dual-
purpose breeds for which an
export-market is developing in
South America, while inquiries
come in from Kenya and Japan
as well.
Whatever happens, Merinos
will always be the trump-card.
They have proved they can live
and do well anywhere from the
saltbush to improved irrigated
pasture, and their only real
need for survival is supplemen-
tary fodder when the season
gets tough.
Even though many graziers
got caught again this year with
insufficient reserves, the short
drought fortunately wiped-out
only the less-hardy sheep.
Surely we’ve learned our lesson
at last.
Fadder-conservafton
“Myall”: In Queensland’s
recent long dry spell thou-
sands of cattle and sheep
died through lack of fodder,
while many owners had heavy
losses after spending a lot on
feed. Those, however, who
had stored for such an
emergency came through with
little loss.
On the Darling Downs,
where large quantities of grain
are produced, sheepmen and
cattlemen have been Storing
enough to tide their animals
over long periods _of drought,
and have held some in reserve.
On some properties stock are
fed throughout the winter
months, no matter how good
the feed may be, and the
animals come through the cold
weather in perfect condition.
Further west others pur-
chased and stored in silos
enough oats and other grain
to carry them through the dry
spell. While less - provident
neighbors were hard hit, their
own losses were negligible. In
the far west graziers who had
been curing and baling hay
made from native grasses and
storing it as a drought-reserve
had a minimum of losses. Some
properties stockpiled many
thousands of bales.
A few farseeing stock-
owners in the north-west are
turning to crops to make into
ensilage. At Hughenden, in
the central-west, one grazier has
for four years been growing
sweet sorghum, cutting it when
mature and converting it into
silage. He has stockpiled
10,000 tons to date, enough to
feed his 35,000 sheep for about
seven months, at a cost of 355.
a ton. This is the largest private
fodder-supply in the State,
and further reserves will be
accumulated as seasons permit,
so that enough will be con-
served to enable him to weather
the longest drought without
losses. On two properties in the
Richmond (Q.) area reserves of
6000 tons are stored, while
another has 4500 tons.
The growing of crops for
fodder-conservation is rapidly
spreadnig through the Channel
Country also.
Beef as a Pig-fattener
“Big Billy”: Fodder-beet, or
Danish fodder-beet —a sugar-
beet and mangel cross—is ideal
for bringing on late-summer
litters or early pigs, as well as
for carrying stores through the
winter.
Normally, the crop is pulled
and fed-out, but some varieties
have been successfully break*
grazed with an electric-fence.
The tops are nutritious, but may
cause digestive upsets, especi-
ally in young pigs, so it’s best
to pull and wilt them the day
before feeding-out.
Yields per acre are usually
less than half those of mangels,
but the dry-matter content of
the bulbs is very much greater.
The crop can be transplanted
or drilled and afterwards
thinned. Drilling is probably
better, rows being 21in. to 28in
apart With 41b. of seed an acre.
Use at least scwt. of manure per
acre, preferably equal parts of
blood-and-bone and reverted
super. An overdressing of
lcwt. of sulphate of ammonia
to each acre is worth while once
the plants are established.
Weeds can be controlled by
pre-emergence spraying with
15-201 b. of TCA per acre in
30-40 gallons of water shortly
after the seed is drilled.
• Farm Hint
“C.A.A.”: Wood has beaten
steel and concrete as keystone
of the farmer's fence. C.5.1.R.0.
tests have shown that timber
posts last longer and have a
higher overall breaking-strength
—57001 b., as compared with
24001 b. for steel. Concrete’s
chief disadvantages are
permeability to moist air and
water, and the wear it causes
on wire. Steel is susceptible to
rust, and also is easily dislodged
in soft ground. The Division
of Forest Products, conducting
the tests, found that round
wooden posts treated with
reliable preservative have an
expected life of 20 to 30 years
at least.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The main interest of the week lay in
the visitors who reached- our shores by
sea, land and air. Foremost among
them was Dame Ninette de Valois, direc-
tor of the Royal Ballet, Covent Garden.
She is here to make arrangements for
the Royal Ballet’s eight-months’ tour of
Australia and New Zealand, which ,is to
open at the Empire Theatre, Sydney, on
September 11.
Irish-born Dame Ninette, who is
slender, neat and rather grave, gives one
the impression of being a dedicated
person. This is, of course, only what
one could have expected, since it was
largely by her work and imagination
that British ballet has won world-wide
renown over the past 25 years. Until
she established her Sadlers’ Wells Ballet
School in 1926 it was thought that there
could be no ballet but the Russian, and
anyone who wanted to succeed as a
dancer had to change his or her name
to something ending in “ski” or “ova.”
Nowadays the quality of British dancers
is acknowledged all over the world and
English names have glamor and prestige.
☆ ☆ ☆
Another visitor who caused sundry
persons to go out seeking a new cocktail-
hat was 21-year-old Prince Gonzalo de
Bourbon, for whom what was voted “a
fabulous party” was given on the good
ship Flaminia. Prince Gonzalo is the
second son of the late Don Jaime, Pre-
tender to the Spanish throne, who
resigned his claim in favor of his brother
Don Juan. The prince, who is a student
of physics at Madrid University, is visit-
ing his uncle, Sir Abel Smith, Governor
of Queensland, and Lady Smith. He is
related to the English family through
his grandmother, ex-Queen Vittoria
Eugenia of Spain.
V v v
Czech conductor Rafael Kubelik and
his wife, violinist Ludmila Bertlova, who
also arrived in Sydney last week, were
entertained at a cocktail-party by the
A.B.C.’s Symphony Orchestral Commit-
tee, Sir John Tivey being the host. It
was disappointing to hear that Mrs.
Kubelik will not be able to give any
concerts in Australia because of an injury
to a finger, sustained in Adelaide. She
is now in Queensland, visiting the Misses
Una, Aileeh and Enid Bell at their
famous homestead, Coochin Coochin.
The Kubeliks’ 11-year-old son, Martin,
went ahead to stay with the Misses Bell,
his second visit; he was there when he
was three and planted a jacaranda-
tree.
☆ ☆ *
Mary Preston, singer, dancer and
actress, arrived by Qantas to play the
lead in the Australian musical “Lola
Montez,” which the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust will present at the Elizabethan
Theatre on October 22. Pretty, smiling
and petite, Miss Preston says that the
secret of relaxation is to make lamp-
shades. While she is waiting for her cue
on-stage she stitches away at shades
(which she gives to her friends) and never
has time to be nervous. Already she
has made 132, and is certainly an adver-
tisement for the lampshade-making-
system of therapy.
Deirdre Sheahan, daughter of N.S.W.
Minister for Health Sheahan and Mrs.
Sheahan, of Lewisham, will marry John
Reed, son of Mrs. V. A. Reed, of East
Malvern, and the late Ashley Reed, at
St: Thomas’s Church, Lewisham, next
Saturday (Sept. 6). Deirdre will be
attended by her sister Margaret and
Pauline Moran. Among the guests will
be many people from Melbourne, where
the newlyweds will make their home.
Photo by Norton Trevaire.
Whilst cowering away from the bitter
west winds during the week and trying
to protect sinus and antrum from its
ferocious attacks, one was rather stag-
gered to read this line by Hal Porter in
the Penguin Book of Australian Verse:
“A gentle Annie, willow wind, the west.”
That’s not what we call it!
This same book, by the way, excellent
as it is, has one really amusing aspect.
It is in chronological order, and from
it you can tell how old everyone is.
Dame Mary Gilmore, right at the begin-
ning, is the oldest, and Vivian Smith,
right at the end, the baby. In between
everyone is graded according to age, so
that when you have finished reading a
poem by, say, Douglas Stewart and wish
to read one by David Campbell, you ask
yourself: “Now, would Douglas be older
or younger than David?” If older, he
will be earlier in the book ; if younger,
more to the Vivian Smith end of the
scale. It is much more instructive than ■
alphabetical order. Incidentally, the year
of D. Stewart’s birth was a vintage one,
according to this anthology. Six of our
poets first saw the light then, the highest
score for any one year. Hurrah for
19 ! (Buy the book and find out the
secret date.)
* ☆ *
Mention of “Lola Montez” brings to
mind the name of Hermia Boyd, who
has designed the costumes and decor.
She and her husband, David, are at
present holding their second Sydney
exhibition of pottery at the Terry Clune
Galleries, and so their visit to Sydney
from their home at Murrumbeena (Vic.)
has a double purpose. With them are
their three little daughters, Amanda (9),
Lucinda (4) and Cassandra (2) ? whose
clothes are all designed and made by their
mother. “Lola Montez” is the first big
production for which Mrs. Boyd has
done the costumes and decor, and she
expects to be in Sydney for about seven
weeks.
☆ ☆ *
Of course, there was a fashion-parade
during the week. Fashion-parades are
“sure-fire” at this time of the year, as
the committee for the Deaf and Blind
Children found. To their regret they
had to turn away over 200 applicants
for tickets to their showing of Beril-
Jents clothes and Henriette Lamotte hats
at the Australia. . The “House Full” sign
went up quite early, but still more people
trooped in. The clothes were really
exciting. It seems that there are many,
many variations of the chemise-line and
the sack which will keep them going for
a long time yet; and the short skirt is
the smart skirt.
“Wiggle, Wiggle, Wiggle, Wiggle,
Wiggle,” ran the sinuous line of experts’
tips for first place in the Warwick Stakes
last Saturday. But Wiggle didn’t win.
Just couldn’t get a wiggle on! ,
CANBERRA
To introduce Dr. Tara Shand, who is
in Australia as guest of the Common-
wealth Government, the High Commis-
sioner for India and Mrs. Padmini
Menon gave a reception at their residence,
“Shanti Kutir.” Colorful national dress
worn by some wives of foreign diplo-
mats gave a bright note to the party.
To receive the guests with her husband
the hostess wore a sari in black chiffon,
bordered in brilliant scarlet and beaten
gold.
A lively personality, Dr. Shand is a
member of the Indian Council of States,
and until recently was Indian Ambassa-
dor to Iran. As a former vice-chancellor
of the University of Allahabad he has
found much to interest him in universities


here. After leaving Canberra he will
visit New Zealand.
☆☆ - ☆
Margaret Coen’s exhibition of water-
colors was opened by the Archbishop of
Canberra and Goulburn, Most Rev. Dr.
Eris O’Brien, at the Canberra Art Club’s
Riverside Gallery. Witty and penetrat-
ing, the Archbishop’s address was one of
the best this Letter has heard at a
Canberra opening; it inspired the appro-
priate atmosphere for an appreciation of
the paintings, “Mystery Bay, South
Coast” and “Australiana” were tw'o he
selected for special admiration as
examples of the artist’s fluency in flower-
studies and scene-painting..
Some of the guests came from the
Yass district; among these were Mr. and
Mrs. Marcus McAuliffe and Mr. Kevin
Meagher. Noted also the French
Ambassador, M. Renaud Sivan; Very
Rev. Dean W. McGilvray ; Mr. David
Campbell and Mr. A. T. Shakespeare.
The exhibition will be open until
September 5.
« V #
A Spring Preview of Fashion, by Kara
(proceeds going to the Spastic Centre),
was well received, with every table booked
at the Carlton Lounge of the Hotel
Ainslie-Rex. Frocks for the young—a
feature of the parade—gave a gay note.
Colors were bright and materials varied ;
florals prevailed among the cottons, some
in colorful rose designs. The trapeze-
line was seen in a number of variations.
The most glamorous “formal” was a
full-length gown in white nylon tulle:
clusters of lilac flowers on the regency-
cut bodice were held in place by a deep-
purple chiffon neck-drape. Hats by
Tracey Lord were a delight ; the after-
fives included flow'ered wigs and jewelled
mop-caps. One high-crowned cap in
layers of lime-green tulle was whimsical.
Individual hair-styles to suit each hat
shown were personally arranged by hair-
dresser Steffan. Mrs. Elizabeth Mason
compered the parade.
MELBOURNE
Sir Percy Spender, who leaves soon to
take up his position as judge of the
International Court at The Hague, was
guest-of-honor at a luncheon in the
Royale Ballroom organised by the Aus-
tralian-American Association, and was
welcomed by its president, Sir John
Latham. Lady Latham accompanied her
husband, and in the official party were
the Premier and Mrs. Bolte, U.S. Consul-
General Graham Hall and Mrs. Hall, and
the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr.
and Mrs. F. W. Thomas). Attending the
luncheon were Transport Minister Sir
Arthur Warner and Lady Warner, Sir
Henry and Lady Wells, Air-Vice-Marshal
and Mrs. A. L. Walters, Mr. and Mrs.
Wesley Ince and their daughter Mrs. John
Grantly Shelton, Mr. and Mrs. W. W.
Killough, Lieut.-General and Mrs. E. K.
Smart, U.S. Consul W. Bushwaller and
Mrs. Bushwaller, Mrs. E. Alstergren, Mrs.
John Heath, Lady Wackett, Cr. and Mrs.
John Buchan, Lady Murdoch, Sir Daryl
Lindsay, Sir Norman Brookes, and Mr.
and Mrs. P. M- Hamilton.
☆ ☆ ☆
Special guests at the Victoria League
Young Contingent’s monthly luncheon
were Stuart Wagstaff and Lloyd Cunning-
ton, who are appearing in “Not in the
Book” at the Comedy Theatre. They
were received by the president, Pamela
Middleton, who looked attractive in a
frock and jacket of royal-blue tweed.
Members present included Betty Leslie,
Eve Haskin, Margaret Herring, Elizabeth
Duckett, Valerie Hall, Barbara Crockett,
Mrs. T. Firth, Max Chapman, Don
Hadley, Bruce Beck and Michael
Northcote.
Peggy Tellick, press-officer with British
Nylon Spinners (Australia), has returned
from a trip overseas during which she
studied the latest developments in nylon
fabrics, as . well as the newest fashion-
trends. Additions to her wardrobe
include a nylon-and-mohair frock (this
fabric has a boucle surface, is lightweight
but warm); another frock in which is
combined nylon and alpaca ; and a nylon-
Persian-lamb fabric coat. TV-appear-
ances and addressing women's groups on
her trip are taking up some of her time.
Peggy is also an actress of talent, and has
appeared in many Tin A lley productions.
The Prime Minister was in fine form
when he proposed the toast to Australia’s
Chief Justice, Sir Owen Dixon, when
he and Lady Dixon were guests-of-honor
at a dinner given by the English Speaking
Union at the Australia. Sir Owen, who
is president of the E.S.U., recently
returned after receiving honorary degrees
from the universities of Harvard and
Oxford. The Australian and American
flags, centred by the Union Jack, formed
the background of the official table, which
was set in the Venetian Court. At each
end of the table was a tall vase of white
gladioli, daffodils and greenery.
With the Prime Minister was Dame
Pattie, who wore a slim-fitting gown of
pink lace over taffeta ; the rose-pink sash
of her Order was colorful contrast. Lady
Dixon chose a gown of mist-blue
delustred satin made with a draped bodice
and full skirt. Her matching stole was
caught at one side with a spray of
gardenias.
Guests were welcomed by the Lieut.-
Governor and Ghief Justice of Victoria,
Sir Edmund Herring, and Lady Herring
(she wearing a black delustred satin gown
with the bodice featuring a cream lace-
fichu drape-stole finished with a cluster
of pink French roses) and the deputy-
president of E.S.U., Mr. Justice Sholl,
and his wife (who chose a brocade gown
worn with a tiny matching bolero). In
the official party were the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress, Cr. and Mrs. F. W.
Thomas (her gown of black chiffon high-
lighted with a panel of deep-cream lace);
U.S. Ambassador William J. Sebald (who
proposed the toast of the E.S.U.); acting
High Commissioner for the U.K., Neil
Pritchard and Mrs. Pritchard; Sir
Charles and Lady Lowe ; and the Chan-
cellor of the University, Mr. Justice Dean,
and Mrs. Dean.
☆ ☆ *
An engagement just announced is that
of Diana Charlton and Dr. lan Mad-
docks. Diana, who is a sister at the Royal
Melbourne Hospital, is the only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Conrad Charlton, of
Kallista. Her fiance, who is the younger
son of Mr. and Mrs. G. Maddocks, of
Warrnambool, is attached to the Uni-
versity’s Department of Medicine at the
Royal Melbourne Hospital.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Overseas League celebrated its
48th birthday with a dinner-dance at
Dennis House, Hawthorn. The Governor
was unable to attend through illness, but
Lady Brooks was present with her son-
in-law and daughter, Mr. and Mrs. Robin
Byrne. Her Excellency wore a charming
pastel-blue satin gown, Mrs. Byrne satins
in deep midnight-blue tonings. The
official guests, who were received by the
league’s president, Vice-Admiral Sir Roy
Dowling, and Lady Dowling, included
the president of the Royal Common-
wealth Society, Sir Horace Robertson;
the senior vice-president of the Victoria
League, Mrs. Guy Bakewell, and her
husband ; the president of the ball com-
mittee, Mrs. Verna Morgan ; Elizabeth
Sinclair; and the vice-president of the
Overseas League, Bruce Mcßrien.
With the Overseas League’s secretary,
Thomas Hudson, was his wife, who chose
a full-skirted gown of black gold-
embroidered tulle.
Among other guests were Mr. and
Mrs. Hugh Campbell ; Lieut.-Commander
and Mrs. Swan ; Loraine Mullens, whose
short olive-green satin frock featured a
harem hemline ; Caterina Carter, wearing
a scarlet chiffon frock with a lampshade-
skirt ; and Mrs. Frieda Kempster, whose
slim formal gown was of champagne-
beige lace highlighted with a sash of
cinnamon-brow'n satin.


“Why must / always go?”
Billy complained.
“Because you’re a boy.”
“But Babs doesn’t even wear
anything.”
“There’s not much to Babs,”
Janet said.
“But we bath together.”
Janet's changeable modesty
seemed to work against him.
“That’s different.”
“There is much to me,”
Babs cried, bending her round
golden body back in su.nlight.
“There is too.”
“Now then, Babs, don’t be
rude,” said Janet, “or I won't
have you in my team.”
And for the next hour they
marched and paraded and
saved lives, Billy and Janet
being Bert in turns, while Babs,
between laughter and tears,
played the corpse, dragged
“This visual excitation, Mamma, spells the doom of the social graces."
from the shallows at the end
of a length of binder-twine.
“Am I dead this time?” she
asked anxiously. “Or just full
up with salt water?”
“Shut-up,' said Billy, on his
knees, pumping. “You’re un-
conscious, anyway. Pull her
tongue out, Bert; that'll
quieten her. And they often
swallow it.”
“Any sand, seaweed or other
matter,” droned Janet from
Elsie’s manual, “must be re-
moved from the mouth.”
“Ow!” cried Babs.
“Other matter,” said Billy.
Lazily Elsie watched them
from the tree. The freckled
sunlight splashed her body,
burning holes through the thin
cotton of her dress. Bert, Bert,
Bert! The summer air was
full of his name, and drowsily
Elsie relaxed in the embrace of
the willow-root that was his
strong right arm.
IV.
TJilly dated Bert’s fall from
favor from the day Mr.
Blake appeared on horseback
above the creek-bank.
“Ah!” said Blake from the
sky. “Having a picnic, I see.”
The effect was immediate.
Elsie sprang scarlet from the
arms of the willow like a
startled lover ; and Janet, who
had ruled for that one day
that bathing with nothing on
was allowed, streaked for her
towel and stood with it to her
lips, screened from Blake while
remaining naked to the rest of
the world.
“It’s all right,” said Billy,
sloshing upstream. “It’s only
Mr. Blake.”
“Only!” hissed Janet. “It's
all your fault, Billy. You’re
always wanting to take your
clothes off ; and you look dis-
gusting.”
But Mr. Blake was quite at
ease, heeling his horse down
the side-bank and clattering
through the water.
“Mind if I join you?” he
said. “Couldn’t eat my lunch.
Like concrete.”
Mr. Blake was the jackeroo.
He had arrived a month ago
under a cloud, following a tele-
gram that read, “Delayed.
Expect me Thursday’s train.
Love, BJake.”
“Love!” their father said.
“Love! His expectations for
the next half-year are dagging
wethers.”
But Blake explained that
some girl had sent the tele-
gram, a friend of his sister;
bought a pipe and a fast motor-
bike, and looked about him.
Now on the sand, mouth full
of scone, he repeated. “Just
like concrete! How that cook
makes bread like that, I don’t
know. It’s her art.”
“Oh, Emmy,” Elsie sim-
pered, pouring tea. “She’s too
busy fooling around with Sol
to think about bread.”
Billy stared hard at Elsie,
for Emmy did not fool around
with anyone, unless it were
God. And Blake was up sharp
on his elbow, staring too.
“No!” he said. “Not our
Emmy? I don’t believe it.”
Elsie flushed, as well she
might, but she managed airily:
“Oh, you've got to keep your
eyes open.”
Mr. Blake’s eyes were very
wide open, gold as the eyes of
a fox ; and then they narrowed
into laughter.
“Well, the old trout!” he
said. “I thought she died years
ago.”
“Oh, you’ve got to get up
early,” Elsie said ; “or late, in
this case.”
Billy noticed that Mr.
Blake’s laughter came out like
the tea from the thermos: the
sound started at his lips and
then went deeper.
“Still a kick in the tail,” he
cried. “Elsie, you’re a dis-
covery.”
He was still staring at Elsie
who was laughing too, her
eyes running off merrily
amongst the teacups and then
returning, delighted with her
lie.
“Elsie!” snapped Janet,
coming fully - clothed and
haughty from behind the
willow. “Watch the tea.
You’re pouring it all over the
scones.”
But Mr. Blake’s laughter
won the day, and soon they
were all making fun of Emmy
except Janet; and Elsie forgot
to crook her little finger from
the cup and kept offering their
scones to Mr. Blake.
“Go on,” she said. They'll
do you good.”
Mr. Blake ate them, and Elsie
smiled. It was a strange broad
smile for the world in general;
but when it met Mr. Blake’s
she colored-up slowly, as if he
had surprised her getting
undressed.
“Well, well,” said Blake,
stretching and rising, “now
I know where the good
tucker is.”
And he cantered off with the
reins so tight that old Kismet
reared and side-stepped like a
two-year-old.
V.
A fter . that, Mr: Blake
turned-up by accident two
or three afternoons a week.
Elsie packed a larger basket
and spent a longer time in front
of her glass. So their descent
of the hill was slower, and
Elsie’s freshness lay deeper
under powder.
Also the children’s games
changed.
“Today,” Mr. Blake said,
“we’re having a long-distance,
cross-country race. See that
willow ’way-off up there —no,
no, the far one—well, that's
the turning-point. On your
marks, get set . . . go!”
And he burst the paper bag
that the scones had been in-
Billy ran hard and usually
got back first, to find Elsie and
Mr. Blake side by side in the
elbow of the willow and the
last of the tea gone. They did
not seem pleased with his win,
either.
“I think I like Bert best,”
Billy told Elsie. “I think we
should get back to lifesaving.”
Mr. Blake had not arrived
that day, and Elsie was fidgety.
“Yes,” she said. “Bert was
all right. Bert knew how to
treat a girl.”
But then she said something
that Billy never forgot because


it was the last time he remem-
bered her mentioning Bert.
“Yes,” she said, “Bert was
all right, but he wasn’t good
enough for me.' He told me
so himself. A man should
never say that to a girl or
she’ll believe him.”
Never, Billy vowed, would
he ever say that to a girl, no
matter how she made him feel
undressed.
But it was Babs who struck
first, and that was where the
shillings came into it.
“I think,” Babs said, “I’ll
stay and play sandcastles. It’s
too hot for running.”
“But we’ve thought of a
special race for you, Babs,”
Mr. Blake said. “See those
sandpipers off there? All you
have to do is run around them
and home.”
“I think I’ll stay,” Babs said,
filling her bucket. “I like it
here.”
“But, Babs,” Elsie said,
“sandpipers are nice.”
Babs up-ended her bucket
and made a castle on the sand.
it “Janet,” Mr. Blake said,
“I’ve decided to give a prize.”
“How much?” said Janet.
“The prize is a shilling, but
all contestants must take part
in the race. There’s no hurry
home.”
“First or last?”-
“Last is the winner, but you
get the prize.”
“Come on, Babs,” Janet said.
“There’s better sand for castles
up the creek.”
And Babs was led off
screaming while, hand-in-hand,
Blake and Elsie stood beneath
the willow, watching them go.
VI.
6 6|>ut it isn’t fair,” Billy said.
-*-* “I work just as hard as
you do.”
They were back to their old
argument over the silver
shillings—eight in all.
“Very well, then; you go
and tell him.”
And carefully Janet drew
the bucket away from the
sand.
“Ah!”
“I’m sick of silly old sand-
castles,” Babs said, and razed
it with her toe.
“Let’s all go back.”
“But you haven’t seen this
one,” said Janet, refilling the
bucket.
“Well, I will go, see,” said
Billy. “You see if I don’t.”
And he marched off down
the creek between the high
black-soil banks.
The day was hot, but Elsie
and Mr. Blake were under the
rug, right under, so that Billy
really did not know what to
do. There was nowhere to
knock, so he splashed heavily
through the water. The rug
was still.
“Mr. Blake,” he called, “I
want a shilling, too.”
Silence. Perhaps they were
asleep after all.
“I want a shilling,” Billy
chanted. “I want a shilling,
too.”
“If you don’t go away,”
came from the rug, “you’ll get
something you’re not expect-
ing.”
It was then that Billy knew
he had made a mistake, but
for some reason he found that
he was committed, he could
not leave. It was like his
dream. His feet stuck fast in
the sand and he heard in
anguish his silly high voice
piping, “I want a shilling, I
want a shilling, I want a
shilling, too.”
Perhaps it was his head for
business that kept him there, or
the thought of Janet, but he
remembered hating himself
and that silly high voice ; and
when the record clicked on
again and Mr. Blake taught
him up and slapped his ear,
he was glad. The ear stung
like bees and he smiled. It
was what he deserved.
Soon after that, the weather
changed, and there was no
more swimming for that year.
And, though it was not his
fault, Billy knew that Janet
blamed him for it and the loss
of her shillings. Elsie was off-
hand too, and for some time
Billy felt just as he did after
lessons about the bad kings.
The good kings made him
fine and brave; but after
lessons about the bad kings he
asked himself if he would have
done any better and answered
that he would not. And lying
awake at night in their sleep-
out, the possums scolding the
moon outside, he saw quite
clearly that he would end up
like King John with the barons
in charge, or like Bert, who
was not even good enough for
Elsie.
VII.
Tt was perhaps because of
A this that he woke one night
and heard the ghost walking
outside Elsie’s window. The
door was closed, but he heard
it quite clearly—the creak of
feet on gravel. In one bound
he was in Janet’s bed.
“The ghost!” he whispered.
“Listen!”
He could feel Janet listen-
ing with all her taut, thin body,
and, sure enough, there was
the step again and the grate
of the wire screen.
“It’s getting into Elsie's
room," said Billy. “We’d
better warn her.”
But to his astonishment,
Janet said. “You wait here.
I’ll go.”
She paused till all was quiet,
and then, light as a ghost her-
self, while Billy shivered, she
slipped to the door. The
handle hardly groaned in turn-
ing. As silently, the door shut
behind her.
For an eternity Billy lay
sweating in the cold.
What was happening? What
should the king do now?
In a trance of fear, he got
out of bed and walked to the
door. There Janet met him,
coming back.
“It’s all right,” she whispered.
“Come back to bed.”
“But Elsie! What’s happen-
ing to Elsie?”
“Come back to bed.”
There, giggling, Janet pressed
a warm two-shilling piece into
his cold palm.
“It’s for you,” she said.
“Elsie sent it.”
And, in spite of the mystery,
Billy slept soundly all that
night, for he knew that he was
forgiven.
The Hollidays
BY Middy
“We had a victory. How did you get on?”


favorite flower in historical perspective.
The rose seems to have established
itself in men’s regard even before the
horse. It was made use of in design
by the goldsmiths of the Minoan period,
3000 years before the Christian era; it
appeared on Greek coins, in Greek
poetry and in Greek mythology, and
Anacreon let himself go on this particu-
lar flower in 500 B.C.: —
The rose is the perfume of the Gods,
the joy of men,
It adorns the Graces at the blossom-
ing of Love,
It is the favored flower of Venus.
It seems to have been running wild in
all countries bordering on the Medi-
terranean in the Bronze Age, and
Homer mentions that Aphrodite used
its perfumed oil to anoint the dead
body of Hector.
It was a simpler affair in those days
than it is now—it was single; but the
eyes of hybridists were as keen then as
they are today, and somebody must
have observed a wild rose throwing out
a sport, for Herodotus reports that the
Greeks “coming to another district of
Macedonia, settled near the garden of
Midas in which wild roses grew, each
one having 60 petals surpassing all
other known roses in fragrance.” Fair-
brother opines that this must have been
the ancestor of the double form of
Rosa damascena, which was descended
from Rosa gallica and hence was the
parent of our modern roses.
The Romans went in for roses in a
big way. At their banquets to vic-
torious generals or to diplomats from
.foreign countries the guests were
crowned with garlands of roses, the
food was decorated with rose-petals and
the fragrant oil was sprinkled on it;
moreover, at summit conferences
gossip between heads garlanded with
roses was treated with the respect due
to diplomatic conversations and
regarded as confidential—hence the
term “sub rosa”; and, no doubt, every-
thing came out later, just as it does
now.
It is a curious fact that that indefatig-
able observer Marco Polo doesn’t men-
tion the cultivation of the rose in
China; but, then, he doesn’t mention
tea-drinking or printing, either—
possibly he liked wine better and was
more interested in human beings than
books.
It was the China rose which marked
the first real advance in rose-culture
when it was introduced into England
about the same time that tea was. It
was crossed and recrossed with roses
from other countries to produce a per-
petual flowerer, and the resultant
hybrid was crossed and recrossed and
crossed again ad infinitum to produce
a rose that would flower more than
once in a season and yet have greater
substance and a stronger constitution
than its predecessors.
Then the hybridists, to their alarm,
discovered that, in their eager search
for color, they had bred out fragrance.
For a time they tried to persuade them-
selves and the public that color and
form were more important than scent,
but, not finding anybody in agreement
with them, they have started frenziedly
breeding back the fragrance. They will
probably succeed, and they may even
breed out the thorns some day.
After giving the ancestry of the
rose known as Queen Elizabeth, which
is almost as long and full of aristocratic
distinction as its royal namesake’s, the
author gives us chapters on planning,
preparing, pruning, propagation—in
short, on everything the amateur
grower needs to know, including
instructions on how to turn out a new
variety which will cause as worldwide
a sensation as a new form of nuclear
explosive. The volume is copiously
and beautifully illustrated.
A SONG
The sun suspends its urgent song
beneath the fig tree’s canopy
and there sleek shadows frond and throng
and silences call wise and long
to man and girl beneath the tree ,
drowned in love’s discovery.
The sun’s fanged voice does not vibrate
or burn into the strong tree’s lake
and all the waves of leaves create
a shield until its. hurts abate.
Here in the shade the branches make -
brief witness to twined bird and snake.
O sun is long on summer days:
The branches are afraid with love.
Beware! Beware! The serpent has
spilled fire within the bird it slays.
See, fire bleeds from the stricken dove
and Death seeds in the snake its love.
The branches bend with all Death’s
greeds:
here in the earth the roots have found
a skeleton of flowers and weeds,
and in its leaves lost winter pleads.
The lovers sleep now on the ground,
who have not heard the red fire’s sound.
N.S.W.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT.
Kennan on Russia-
Volume 2 of George F. Kennan’s
history, “Soviet-American Relations,
1917-1920,” entitled The Decision to
Intervene (Faber), sustains the bril-
liance of the first volume, “Russia
Leaves the War,” which gained him
America’s Francis Parkman, Bancroft
and Pulitzer prizes and the National
Book Award in non-fiction.
This second book sees-off two of
the main characters of the first. Robins,
American head of the Red Cross in
Moscow, goes off in May, as mysteri-
ously conspiratorial on behalf of the
Bolsheviks as ever, and as mysteriously
evasive of the American Embassy;
taking with him, in fact, and without
consulting the American Ambassador,
a proposal from Lenin for a trade-
agreement between Russia and
America. He was to answer at an
American Senate committee the charge
of conspiring to replace Francis as
Ambassador, a charge which Kennan
considers unjustified.
If Robins was not the villain of the
piece he makes a good substitute for
one, and it is a pity to see him go. The
hero, too, though an old and battered
one, Ambassador Francis, leaves to-
wards the book’s end, on July 25, 1918,
with his negro valet; and the book ends
with the departure of American Consul
Poole in September, and of Wardwell
and the rest of the Red Cross group
in October, the last American officials
to leave Russia.
To balance these defections, the
second book brings on two new actions:
the extraordinary affair of the Czech
legion and the Allied landings at
Archangel.
The Czech business began when the
Czech legion which had been fighting
under the Russian Army was being
transported across Siberia, with the
object of taking ship at Vladivostok and
so to more fighting with the Allies
against the Germans on the Western
Front. For whatever reasons (and
Kennan is at pains to point out that
they were not American reasons), the
Czechs took control of stations along
the trans-Siberian railway and eventu-
ally rebelled against the Soviet.
The Archangel intervention began as
anxiety over war-supplies which had
been dumped at Murmansk and along
the railway into Russia. With Russia’s
departure from the war the Allies were
trying to get their supplies back for use
on the Western Front. Trotsky and
Lenin wanted the supplies for their own
purposes, and delayed and misunder-
stood while they removed the dumps
further and further into Russia.
The story of how, in the councils of
America, France and Great Britain, the
Czech disturbances were gradually con-
fused with the Archangel anxieties and
a Japanese landing at Vladivostock
until they became an Allied interven-
tion with the proposal of training the
Czechs for a new attack upon Germany
—and were interpreted by the Russians
as a move to use the Czech rebellion to
overthrow the Bolshevik Government
—is best left to Kennan himself; it is
the kind of history which should have
happened, if only to put such a his-
torian through his paces. He is a master
of the detail of men and movements in
a world-setting such as appears only
once or twice in a century.


THE DARLING OF HER HEART
and other stories
Rhys Davies
“So completely master of the short story” (New Statesman) , “Seemingly the
most spontaneous of story-tellers " (Times Literary Supplement) , Rhys Davies never
fails to charm his public.
At all booksellers - - 18/9
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY ; : AUCKLAND
ADAMS OF THE BOUNTY
by Erie Wilson
Here- for the first time is the true story of the part played in the mutiny on the Bounty by the
mysterious man known as Alexander Smith, whose real name was John Adams. The novel brings
vividly to life, the events leading up to, and the causes of, the mutiny, and the subsequent
life and adventures of the mutineers on lonely Pitcairn Island. It is clear that the popular legend
which made Fletcher Christian a hero and a liberator and branded Bligh as a bullying, inhuman
monster, is far from the truth. This is a powerful reconstruction of one of the most fascinating
chapters in history. 17/6 (post 7d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Chair of Literature
What would a professor of Australian
literature do?
In the broadest terms, Australian
literature would be given status. This
field would be distinguished from the
literature curriculum in much the same
way that American universities dis-
tinguish between English and Ameri-
can literature. Australian undergradu-
ates would be exposed to a force which
would help to lessen what A. A.
Phillips calls a “cultural cringe” or
what Brian Penton calls “ostrichism.”
Graduate students would gravitate
towards this natural centre for
systematic study. The Australian
people would take more notice of the
fact that there was an active literary
community. Students from abroad
would find a person readily equipped
to provide information.
Again, if the right man were chosen,
writers could finally benefit from the
kind of laboratory work in playwrit-
ing that Arthur Miller received at the
University of Michigan, or that Allen
Tate provides for young poets at the
University of Minnesota. The crafts of
fiction, poetry and play writing would
be analysed, and student experiments
in these forms could be supervised.
When the University of Melbourne
recently founded a lectureship in “Aus-
tralian Literature and Creative Writing”
it seemed that the twofold nature of
the academic approach to literature
was finally being recognised here. Un-
fortunately, a lectureship does not pro-
vide that freedom which this new field
so urgently needs, for there are still
persons in responsible positions who
believe that Australian literature is not
worthy of more than sporadic con-
sideration.
The natural response would be to
ask such a critic what he thought of
“Such Is Life,” “Voss”; some of Law-
son’s short-stories like “The Drover’s
Wife” and “The Loaded Dog”; poems
such as “Five Bells,” “The Wanderer”;
Murdoch’s essays, etc. But even if
the whole body of Australian literature
lacked aesthetic merit —which it does
not —study of the literature as a reflec-
tion of the Australian people, their
land and their way of life would, in
itself, be worth-while.
Those who believe that there is not
enough good creative work in Aus-
tralian literature in both quality and
range to provide ample material for a
full year’s study at the university level
should get in touch with Canberra
University College or Geelong
Teacher's College, where the only full-
time courses in Australian literature are
being taught.
Lack of finance is of course the chief
reason why no chair of Australian
literature exists. Personal subscrip-
tions provided one-fourth of the money
needed for the Chair at Sydney. A
possible fresh source could be an
increased subsidy for the Common-
wealth Literary Fund whereby the
system of lectures now instituted at
most of the colleges and universities in
Australia would be replaced or aug-
mented by the partial subsidisation of
the Chair at one university.
This would give a more coherent
focus to a programme that, since 1940,
has brought Australian literature into
Australia’s universities at least once a
year, but which has failed to achieve
much more. The professor appointed
under such a scheme could give lec-
tures at other universities, the number
of lectures to be given and the number
of institutions to be visited each year
being decided by the Commonwealth
Literary Fund and the universities.
With the approval of the University’s
Senate, the £20,000 which has already
been collected, and the presence of the
Mitchell Library in that city, Sydney
would be the most sensible choice for
the first Chair.
Theodore F. Simms
(Fulbright Scholar in Australian
Literature).
Reviewed Briefly
The Mountain Is Young: Han Suyin
(Jonathan Cape). Anyone reading the
Bhagavad-Gita must be impressed by
its mysticism—that is Han Suyin’s
theme in this book, which resulted from
her visit in 1956 to the Coronation of
the King of Nepal. Her description of
scenes is beautiful and accurate, but
her human beings are overdrawn —
comic sketches.
* * * *
Fair Stood the Wind for France and
The Scarlet Sword, by H. E. Bates
(Penguin). First published in 1945
and 1950 respectively, these novels give
the impression that the excitement of
the war period wrought a considerable
change in this very gifted writer. For
these are tremendous melodrama, and
only Bates’s consummate skill lifts their
heads above the corn. It is as though
this excitement of incident had to be
purged from him before the serenity of
the pre-war work could be merged into
the mellowness of the later Burma
novels, “The Jacaranda Tree” and
“The Purple Plain.”
* * * *
Battery from Heilfire: Gordon Lands-
borough (Cassell). The author imagines
an A.-A. regiment knocked-out when
Rommel’s Afrika Korps swept the
Eighth Army back and captured
Tobruk, and describes three days in
the lives of its survivors. New to the
desert and switched from the haif-
world of war—neither fighting-troops
nor base —into the front-line against
their wills, the officers and men who
got away react according to their
natures. Characters are faithfully
drawn (though the soldier’s adjective
begins to pall about halfway through
the book) and the warfare is convinc-
ing.


■
i *
S-vS
m
* * M
■m
It's no good tearing your hair out!
T he damage is done. That fender is crumpled. Next stop
is a panel beater and the insurance company. Tearing
your hair and yelling at the other driver won’t fix it.
Anyway it wasn’t his fault. All right . . . and it wasn’t
yours either. The fact is there are two and a half times
as many vehicles on the road now as there were ten
years ago, and most of the roads are exactly as they were
ten years ago ... or even twenty to forty years ago.
That’s the reason for the .appalling traffic congestion
and the high accident rate which is costing you, the
public, millions of pounds every year.
Take motor vehicle insurance. The more accidents
there are—the higher the insurance premiums. Last year
the cost of motor vehicle insurance totalled more than
£5O million. Just think how much of this alone could be
saved if we had good roads.
We need a blueprint for better roads - NOW!
Roadbuilding is vital to Australia’s economic growth.
It is a task of top and urgent priority that must be
tackled now. We have the engineers, the manpower and
the ingenuity to build good roads. What is urgently
required is an Australian National Roads Authority.
Such an authority'could submit to the Federal Govern-
ment a programme for the planning, financing,
building and the maintaining of Australia’s roads.
Good roads don't cost ... they pay!
CATERPILLAR*
m
„nADS FOR .
‘“caterpillar and cat arh
REGISTERED TRADE MARKS OP
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO.,
When you think of
better roads think of the
big yellow machines
that help build them.
VICTORIA
CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., MELBOURNE,
