

The Bulletin
Preparing for SYDNEY SHOW—page so
Wednesday, March 26, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Regristered In Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper,
"Me trackem feller in billahong — anywhere — now, Boss"


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
THE GREAT SAM PEPYS
By NORMAN LINDSAY
IF I were required to answer that
stock question about being wrecked
on a desert island with only one
book, my unhesitating choice would
be the Diary of Samuel Pepys. Many
greater works may be reread to
satiation-point, but not Sam’s diary. Its
very form keeps curiosity constantly
simmering, because it is impossible to
retain a precise recollection of its many
threads of action and the personalities
involved in them. *
The great character-creation of the
diary is, of course, Pepys himself, but
it seems to me that most commentators
on it have overlooked a salient content
in it. This is due to confusing* Pepys’s
private presentation of • himself to us
with the presentation he made of him-
self to his contemporaries. In private
Pepys dispenses with all false pretenses
and postures over the petty, undignified
and belittling actions which are the
commonplace of every life that- has
been lived.
This ruthless frankness, this utter
rejection of generous emotion on his
own behalf over recounting such antics
as slapping his wife’s face, spying on
her to see if she puts on pants for her
dancing-lesson, squabbling over the
kitchen-accounts or beating his page-
boy till his arm ached are apt to raise
a comedy-image of him in the reader’s
mind, thereby infecting him with a
complacent sense of superiority to such
ignoble behavior, and creating the
illusion that the Pepys he sees in his
mind’s-eye was the Pepys under
inspection by the people of his own
period.
R. L. Stevenson’s essay on Pepys
is the best example of a reader’s
inability to separate the Pepys
scribbling in his diary from the digni-
fied Pepys in his character as Secretary
to the Navy Office. To Stevenson, a
self-idolator who exercised his literary
faculty in presenting an idealised self-
portrait to posterity, it was incompre-
hensible that Pepys could write about
himself with such integrity unless he
was such a simple fellow that he did
not realise what he was doing. I have
not read that silly and impertinent essay
since I was a boy, but I recall a refer-
ence to Pepys as “a little cockboat”
pulled about in the wake of popular
events among “the stupid starers and
the loud huzzas.”
No concept could be further from
the reality—the sound wisdom in which
Pepys kept his stability in a difficult
and dangerous world of public affairs.
Amid the warring factions of that time
no man might count on security in his
office. The Navy Office itself was a
hotbed of bickerings, backbitings and
open enmity, and Pepys had to walk
on eggs to keep out of open conflict
with his colleagues. That he managed
to do so while defending the rights and
privileges of his office is evidence of his
suavity of address.
Though he and Sir William Penn
detested each other, their relations
never came to outright warfare, and
that must be accounted to the art with
which Pepys handled that intemperate,
hard-drinking, quarterdeck martinet.
Very early in the diary Pepys gives us
a sample of his temper when he and
Penn were out riding on a country
road, and chanced to meet two country
fellows on one horse, “which I did,
without much ado, give way to,” writes
Pepys,
but Sir W. Penn would not, but
struck them and they him, and so
passed away, but they giving him
some high words, he went back and
struck them off their horse in a
simple fury, and without much
honor in my mind.
TTHERE is no question about the
A figure Pepys'cut in the eyes of his
contemporaries. He was Clerk of the
Acts, Clerk of the Privy Seal. Treasurer
for Tangier, a Brother of Trinity House
and a member of the Royal Society.
He mixed on equal terms with
merchants on the Exchange;- the gold-
smiths, who were the bankers of that
era; tradesmen who supplied com-
modities to the Navy; actors, artists and
musicians; and, as spokesman for the
Navy at the Privy Council, had
personal contact with every notability
at the court of Charles 11.
Charles himself had a great respect
for his abilities, and when, during the
appalling year of the plague, Pepys
ran the Navy Office practically single-
handed, Charles said to him, “Mr.
Pepys, I give you my thanks for your
good service all this year, and I assure
you I am very sensible of it.” Lord
Sandwich never moved in any affair
of complexity without asking his
advice, and Sir William Coventry,
about the only man of genuine integrity
in that era of almost universal corrup-
tion in affairs, never faltered in his
respect and personal regard for Pepys.
The supreme instance of Pepys’s
ease of address in public is that
of his great speech when he and his
fellow-members of the Navy Office
were called to the bar of the House of
Commons, there to answer for their
part in the disastrous war with
Holland, which for the time being gave
the Dutch mastery of the seas.
It was a time of panic for everybody
who held any public office connected
with the Navy. There was talk of
impeaching Clarendon himself, also
Lord Sandwich for breaching cargo in
prizes taken by him, and Sir William
Coventry for selling places. Many
others went down under the wave of
popular frenzy, and the Parliament's
lust for fresh victims was insatiable.
There were four months of it —nerves
were frayed to breaking-point—till
finally the commission inquiring into
the mismanagement of the Navy Office
demanded a full investigation at the
bar of the House.
The command fell suddenly and
there was little time to prepare a
defence. Pepys shut himself up with
his clerks, huddling together docu-
mentary evidence to make his case, till
{Continued on page 65)
CITIZEN
The roofs of cars were crusted thick with
'frost
And ice was notable on every pool;
Blue children stalked in overcoats and
gloves
Past the, Immaculate Heart of Mary
school.
And where he walked the traffic ran
one way —
Toward the sacred ritual of work —
While hasty breakfasts rumbled, in those
cars
Whose flying mud had stopped him with
a jerk.
On villa, cottage, sweet-shop, bungalow,
Schoolroom and Gentlemen’s, the morn-
ing grinned
Facetiously. He quietly picked his way
Among those houses where the world had
sinned.
Now schizoid barbers packed their
shaving-gear,
Uncomfortable lovers caught the train
And everyone rushed. It was at times
like this
That decent violence beset his brain.
“Complacent city with your brazen bells
And morning song . . . .” He called jor
words to cease,
For citizens to know their proper hells
And anger to bloom green upon the trees.
VIC.
CHRIS WALLACE-CEABBE.


OR
1,000 BALE
receive the same
Personal Service from
TRAINED WOOL
STAFF
mm
ft .
m
* * ' r &
m$
*r.
m
mm
You can be sure that your
wool will be displayed to
advantage on our well
lighted spacious show
floors in all the major
centres in Australia.
Insurance.
COMPLETE SERVICE TO THE MAN ON THE LAND
180 Branches give Nationwide Service to the Man on the Land,
covering Wool, Merchandise, Shipping, Travel, Chartering,
Skin and Hides, Land and Livestock, Rural Banking.
& CO., LIMITED
Adelaide, Perth, Albany, Melbourne, Geelong, Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, London
with which are amalgamated
COMMONWEALTH WOOL & PRODUCE CO. LIMITED .... SYDNEY,
NENCO LIMITED NEWCASTLE
MOREHEADS LIMITED BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 26, 1958
Vol. 79—No. 4076
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
■ G.P.0.), Wellington.
SALUTE TO TYRANNY!
WITH the accelerating decline in the
ideals of the Labor party and the
infiltration into its platform by Com-
munist expediency, the march towards
tyranny —towards the Communist ideal
of the dictatorship of the proletariat by
juntas—goes on in Australia at a great
rate.
The advance is insidious and steady.
The grand ideals of Labor—the White
Australia policy, the ideal of a fair
day’s work for a fair day’s pay. of
equal opportunity and scrupulous
regard for freedom of opinion and
religion—are rapidly disappearing.
Lip-service is given to them only as a
cloak under which to insert the knife
into the body of everything on which
the constitutionality of the British and
Australian systems of government rest.
Under the influence of the linked
caucus and outside A.L.P. junta,
Parliament, when Labor is in power,
no longer makes its own decisions. The
caucus view is in turn dictated to it
mainly by the A.L.P. Federal executive,
which again in turn must watch its
step so as not to offend or get too far
away from the line of the big Com-
munist unions which dictate its policies,
to a large extent, through finance.
Freedom to think and act politically
is firmly discouraged by most unions.
Every member in most of the key-
unions is expected to be a “Labor” man
or a Communist in practice, whatever
his principles; to subscribe money to
support the Labor party, even though
he be a Liberal. Within the past few
weeks there has been the spectacle of
a mob jostling and forcing into
unemployment two Tasmanians who
refuse to subscribe to a political body
for which a Communist-run union has
made an entirely illegal levy for the
A.L.P.
It is significant that there have been
no cries of outrage from the Leader of
the Federal Opposition, that paladin
of the Four Freedoms, at these
goings-on; no word of reproof from
the A.L.P. executives or the A.C.T.U.
Let the victims support Labor or
starve. It is the theory of the class-
war that any man who does not yield
to the domination of the brutal juntas
who dictate the expediencies of the
moment shall be outcast. Yet there
has been no action by the Common-
wealth Government in matters of this
sort. Union machinery is used every
day in the courts to hold-up - industry,
but, despite some dreadful cases,
nothing has been done about it.
How the courts are used is shown
by the fact that in one claim on a log
instituted in 1954, the transcript of
proceedings has already reached more
than three-million words and involved
the appearance at intervals of up to
50 counsel and instructing clerks and
solicitors and union-representatives.
And nothing definitive in that particular
matter has been accomplished.
There was a case during the last two
months which occupied the time of a
Federal conciliation - and - arbitration
commission in two hearings, plus the
time of five judges of the High Court,
in an appeal. And the whole issue
arose out of a dispute between the
A.W.U. and the Watersiders as to
whether the 15 men employed in
stacking wheat in a shed outside the
wharf at Pinkenba, in Brisbane, should
be A.W.U. men or wharfies.
Because of this trivial inter-union
argument thousands of working-hours
were lost through stppwork, and the
whole of the shipping-industry was
compelled to seek representation in
court to defend itself against the
abortive attempts of a union (led by
members of the central committee of
the Communist party) to obtain for
its members preference over all other
unionists in employment in the vicinity
of wharves, whether the work was
skilled or not.
At one time no less than six Queen’s
Counsel and forty-odd others were at
the Bar-table on this trivial matter
which the union was trying to turn to
its own advantage, and some of them
had been brought from as far afield
as South Australia. Yet the Common-
wealth Government appears to think
that a court system which can be used
in this way is one that should not be
interfered with as a basic piece of
arbitration machinery.
In other fields, tyranny, or the trend
towards it, asserts itself. And nowhere
more than in the manipulation of the
electorates. Gerrymandering in N.S.W.
and Queensland for the purpose of
winning elections has been a crying
scandal for years.
Labor took the greatest pride in its
immigration programme, and publi-
cised the fact that because British
immigrants could not be got, recourse
must be had to southern Europeans.
There are yards of speeches buried in
the very recent past on this theme.
But now that it has been found that
Europeans are allergic to Leftism, and
particularly to Communism, the A.L.P..
and its leader in Canberra have gone
“all British,” and want Europeans
restricted in favor of good, hearty
Clydesiders who are likely to be
Socialists.
In Sydney a sort of internecine
Labor war is being carried on, a three-
cornered fight behind the scenes,
between x the City Council Labor
organisation, the State Labor organisa-
tion and the Federal members in
certain seats.
The City Council majority has two
troubles on its mind. It abandoned the
ward system and introduced one
complete city electorate for council-
polls with proportional-representation
because it felt that this would give
Labor, permanence in control. But the
advenQof the Democratic Labor party
has altered the pattern, so now it
proposes, to go back to wards, a system
under which it feels it can wipe-out
the other “Labor” parties.
Ardent theoretic advocates of slum-
clearance, the council aldermen have
begun to stop short of practice because
they realise that it involves denuding
certain areas of solid blocks of Labor
votes.
Certain elements in the State Labor
party have begun where the Labor
aldermen have left-off, because they
have seen what can be accomplished
in suburban electorates by shifting
large sections of population of the right
color to places where politically they
are most needed by the party, In the
recent Parramatta Federal by-election
2000-odd out of 2500 new voters in the
Rydalmere area of Housing Commis-
sion homes voted Labor.
This inspiring result no doubt has
spurred Mr. Abie Landa and other
people involved to further good works
of the same sort round Sydney. One
example was a proposal to build
10,000 regimented homes in Warringah.
This sort of thing is going on with-
out any enthusiastic applause from
reformers like Mr. Eddie Ward, who
cannot afford to see their electorates
denuded of slum-dwellers and the
inhabitants of crowded tenements; for
on them they depend for election. Be
their urge to humanity ever so great
they believe that it begins at home.
All these things are symptomatic of
the times in the A.L.P. It is drifting
every day nearer to the ideals of
“demogracy” practised in the Kremlin
and farther away from the concepts on
which the Australian ways of life and
government are built.


IN THE DOCK


PLAIN ENGLISH
Defence Reorganisation
The Prime Minister’s announcement on
the reorganisation of defence Ministries
will satisfy very few.
Last year Sir Leslie Morshead and a
committee were appointed to make
recommendations for the rationalisation
of the services. Their report was handed-
in three months ago, but for some reason
it has not been made available to Parlia-
ment or the public.
It is quite understandable that there
may be good reasons for this, especially
when the Opposition is headed by a man
so unwary that Communists were able to
infiltrate all the way into his own per-
sonal Ministerial sanctum when he was
Minister for External Affairs and so
catholic in his friendships that he has
been known to communicate with
Comrade Molotov rather than accept the
evidence of the Australian Government
or rulings of Australian judges.
The outcome of the defence inquiry,
however, is unsatisfactory. Australian
defences are dwindling, as are those of
other Western countries. It is now found
difficult in the Army to keep a brigade-
group at full strength, and National
Service training is shrinking towards
token standards. The R.A.N. is on a
limited basis and obsolescent. The
R.A.A.F. is nearly in the same condition.
In the U.S.A. and Canada these
services would be run under a single
Minister of Defence with some assistant
Ministers. But here it appears that these
attenuated departments, which are
gradually reaching the position in which
the civilians will swamp the uniformed
men, must have separate Ministers. It
would be hard to find any good reason for
this—save the purely political one that if
separate portfolios were abolished there
wouldn’t be enough Ministries to hand-
out to assure that every State had a
balanced number, irrespective of the need
for them or for department efficiency.
The assurance that the Defence
Department would have complete
superiority in the field of defence policy
and its application surely does not con-
note any revolutionary change.
The revelation that the Chiefs-of-Staff
would meet regularly to formulate purely
military views suggests erroneously that
no such meetings have taken place in the
past.
The amalgamation of the Departments
of Supply and Defence Production
appears to be only a sop to public
opinion.
The sudden, belated anxiety of Dr.
Evatt about the condition of Australian
defence, of course, is a novel feature of
the new situation, since he seems to have
held out till now that there has not been
the slightest need for defence against the
only people with whom it has been
possible to envision war.
Service opinion generally becomes
more and more worried about Australian
defence, on which Government thinking
appears to be politicalised, antiquated and
wuzzy.
Mr. Menzies can make up his mind thaf
he is about to face a strong barrage of
criticism and analysis on defence ques-
tions, attacks which will prove doubly
dangerous to the Government because the
Opposition will follow the line of 'back-
benchers and outside critics in order to
damage the Administration and under-
mine its authority over the services.
Almost every feature of military
service, from pay and conditions to
tactical methods and weaponry, calls for
a searching overhaul.
Fadden's Retirement
Sir Arthur Fadden’s retirement from
leadership of the Country party marks
the beginning of the end of an era
—of a coalition which has endured
(despite some early friction with Menzies)
through all the stresses of war-time party
defeat, the eight years of war and post-
war exile in Opposition, and the rela-
tively smooth eight years of office.
Having regard to the continuous
hostility of the Liberal-party organisation
in N.S.W. to the existence of the Country
party, it has been a remarkable achieve-
ment in compromise within the Ministry
and Parliament, especially in view of the
divergence of temperament and political
upbringing of Mr. Menzies and Sir
Arthur himself, and the fact that in his
18 years in the Ministry or “Shadow
Cabinet” he has had to sit regularly with
some men dedicated to the destruction
of his party. .
As a Treasurer he has been fortunate
in his period. It has been one of
boom, with full markets, full employ-
ment and a rapidly expanding economy.
On the whole, while many of his measures
have been strongly criticised, he has
been a successful Treasurer, backed by
his Treasury and other advisers, and
backing them to the hilt.
In the early part of his reign—the
days of what Dr. Evatt and Sydney
“Herald” called “the horror Budget”—
he was fully justified by results. He has
been a hard worker. - But above all he
has been a friendly and moderating
influence, a fountain of good humor
whom nobody, not even the sourest of
the Labor front-bench, has been able
genuinely to dislike. And “Artie” never
forgets a kindly act.
It would be true to say that after 22
years of Parliament he will go out with-
out an enemy.
He is not well at the moment, and
has been in poor health in some degree
ever since his serious motor-accident
during an election campaign a few years
ago.
The problems created by his retire-
ment, which has been in contemplation
for a long time, have probably been
solved already, and a new Treasurer may
prepare the Budget. If tradition is
followed he will be Mr. McEwen, as
the almost inevitable new leader of the
Country party. He himself is not entirely
a well man, and his elevation would
produce political difficulties, since it
would mean that both the Prime Minister-
ship and the Treasurership would be in
the hands of Victorians and that N.S.W.
would be unduly weak in the Cabinet
(with only two senior Ministers, Senator
Spooner and Mr. McMahon).
Queensland’s position would be even
weaker, and, with an election to be faced,
the element of distribution of portfolios
as between States is an important
factor. A secondary complicating factor
is the need to maintain C.P. representa-
tion.
Vote Yes and No for Joe
In the difficult pastime of running with
the hares and hunting with the hounds
there are few men in Australian public
life to compare with N.S.W. Premier
Cahill. The faction-fight which has split
the ranks of Labor for the last few years
has cost two Premiers their jobs. The
late John Cain lost his through sticking
to' the Evatt party ; Vince Gair lost his
through- opposing it. Poised between
them, geographically and politically, Joe
Cahill has skilfully managed to keep a
foot in each camp and is still in command
at Macquarie Street.
At the moment he is in the middle of
a tightrope act. remarkable even for one
of his experience. He is being applauded
by the Opposition and the trade-union
movement and at the same time he is
being attacked and criticised by the
Opposition and the trade-union move-
ment.
The two things which, within the space
of a couple of days, achieved this result
are some amended amendments to. the
Landlord and Tenant Act and a three-
quarter promise to legislate for equal
pay for men and women under State
awards.
Last Wednesday, in an incident almost
without precedent in the history of the
Cahill Government, Health Minister
Sheahan, who only a week before had
said that the very limited relaxation of
rent-control which the Government was
then contemplating was the fullest
possible relief that could be given “in
the light of the housing needs of the
community,” told the Assembly the
Government was prepared to accept
amendments proposed by Ivan Black,
Liberal M.L.A. for Neutral Bay. These
would have the effect of releasing from
rent-control all tenanted or owner-
occupied houses and flats as they fell
vacant. Moreover, he thanked the
Opposition for its suggestion. The
announcement was greeted with approval
by the Opposition, (he president of the
Real Estate Institute and property-owners
in general. It was received with howls of
abuse from the N.S.W. Labor Council.
The equal-pay bombshell was touched-
off by Cahill himself. He said he had
told the A.L.P. conference last June that
he believed in equal pay ; things had now
reached the stage where his Government
was considering the move and “we hope
to introduce it before the State election.”
Cahill’s Minister for Labor and Industry,
J. J. Maloney, said that he was working
on a scheme which he thought would give
equal pay. Result of these announce-
ments: loud applause from the Labor
Council; loud condemnation from the


Opposition and the Employers’ Federa-
tion.
It is rather difficult to please everyone,
but Cahill has managed not only to
please everyone, but also to displease
them at the same time. The last card has,
of course, not yet been played. On Mon-
day Cahill was talking' of reconsidering
both measures.
Cynics see both items as vote-catching
moves. If they are right, and Cahill
doesn’t back-down on either one, then
every elector will have a reason for voting
for Joe at the next election. But the
position wifi be complicated a little,
because everyone will also have a reason
for voting against him. Nor will the
position be greatly changed if he backs-
down and drops the two hot potatoes.
No Ideals?
Coinciding with the beginning of mid-
night screenings of horror-films, a wave
of larrikinism broke out in Melbourne.
There had been few reports of vandalism
in recent months until the announcement
of the horror-fpm showings, and they
then became daily occurrences, although
not comparable in viciousness with
activities of the pushes 40 years ago.
Among the worst of the acts were the
building of walls across broad streets in
widely separated suburbs at night; the
disconnection of railway-gates; an
attempt to remove a wind-sock at
Essendon airport; a rock-’n’-roll pyjama-
party to which the police were called four
times and the fire-brigade twice to put-out>
fires; riots at children’s matinees, and
hold-ups of juveniles by armed juveniles.
The starting-signal for these outbreaks
was the first midnight horror-screening,
when 40 glass-panels at an Ascot Vale
cinema were broken, 130 seats ripped,
toilet-bowls and cisterns were smashed,
and larrikins lay in the aisles smoking.
After these larrikins had shown what was
easily possible, there were imitators
throughout Melbourne.
Chief Secretary Rylah was so con-
cerned by the outbreak that he asked the
visiting police-chiefs conferring in Mel-
bourne to suggest an answer to the
hooliganism, but the police-chiefs adroitly
passed back the buck, pointing out the
lack of parental control and the decline
in spiritual consciousness.
N.S.W. Police Chief Delaney did, how-
ever, claim that his department’s 21
Division, which mixed in plainclothes
with the bodgie and widgie types, and
knew them, had been successful, without
parental or spiritual aids.
The police-chiefs, who came from all
Australian States, Papua and New
Guinea, N.Z. and the British Solomons,
had second thoughts about it and got
up and passed a thoughtful and wholly
admirable resolution setting-out what
they thought about it. It was literate and
sensible and obviously came from their
hearts as parents rather than as police-
men.
They pointed-out that Australasian
police had encouraged youth to good
citizenship, helped them in their leisure,
placed prevention of delinquency and
co-operation with parents before prosecu- ,
tion, despite the example of some
parents who disregarded the law them-
selves or left children to excitement-pro-
voking movies, music, literature and other
entertainments ; and, while promising to
deal with larrikin-packs, deplored the
unrestrained and emotional condemnation
of youth which was sometimes the result
of youthful escapades.
Professor Paul Tappen, the visiting
American criminologist, put the out-
break in cool perspective when he
pomted-out that little of it is on a serious
level and not comparable in gravity with
juvenile-delinquency in the U.S., although
midnight horror-shows would soon help
to educate the youngsters in evil.
In the babel of protests the quiet voice
of Mulock Houwer, of Geneva, secretary-
general of the International Union for
Child Welfare, was scarcely heard, and
certainly not heeded! In Europe the
children had. accepted the challenge to
rebuild their war-torn countries, but
Australian youth had no ideal; 60,000
watching 36 or fewer men play a. game
was hardly a love of sport.
Any criticism of Australian Rules
football and the belligerent crowds which
stand for hours watching it is regarded
in Melbourne as unmanly and rather
caddish, so Mr. Hohwer did not become
a TV-personality overnight*' If he had he
might have gone on to suggest it would be
better for youths to play and not watch
sport in a land where he could find no
ideal.
Angry A.C.T.U.
Albert Monk, president of the A.C.T.U.,
whose description of unemployment in
Australia as it is and not as it was
presented at the Parramatta by-election
upset the Doc., has agreed to call a special
meeting of the A.C.T.U. at Dr. Evatt’s
request to discuss a possible agreement
with Federal Parliamentarians, A.L.P.
executives and A.W.U. officers at a
meeting to be arranged.
Evatt’s bait was that the meeting’s
result would strengthen Federal Labor on
“such vital matters as hours, wages,
automation, conciliation and arbitration
and all questions affecting employment.”
Some old Trades Hall hands mutter
(not for publication) that the only time
they hear of these questions is when
Labor is in Opposition ; and when it is
in office its chief doncerns are establish-
ing new departments, making appoint-
ments and finding new tax-fields.
There is a rift between the A.C.T.U.
and the Federal caucus. Monk was mis-
quoted by the entire Australian daily
press after a television interview, or at
least his views were misrepresented.
Asked about unemployment, he said the
A.C.T.U. was not alarmed, but con-
cerned ; and the newspapers made Monk
say there was no serious unemployment.
All unemployment must be taken
seriously by workers’ representatives!
Monk has circularised all unions
affiliated with the A.C.T.U. and sent
copies of true reports from the tape-
recording of his interview. In it he com-
plains less of the slipshod reporting
(which is, of course, familiar since the
war) than of the attacks on him by
members of the Labor caucus before they
had even heard the tape-recording or
read a true report of it.
The anger of the A.C.T.U. with caucus
was indicated by the decision to call a
meeting three weeks off to decide then
if the conference with the Parliamen-
tarians and executive should be arranged.
Normally the meeting would have been
agreed to immediately.
Bank Bills and Elections
This we€k will be critical in Federal
politics.
The banking bills have been forced
thrdugh the House of Representatives
and sent to the Senate, where they will
be defeated if all the members of the
Opposition prove capable of crawling
into the lobby.
But with five of them ill or indisposed
anything might happen now that Senator
Byrne, of Queensland, has announced
his intention of voting against the
measures.
The A.L.P. has considered the bills
and graciously agreed on a two-day
Senate debate. And Mr. Arthur Calwell,
who apparently knows all, has warned
that “we have the numbers in the Senate,
and we intend to use them to defeat
these bills.”
The Government may be faced, after
the defeat of the bills, with knotty prob-
lems. It could undoubtedly 'get a
double-dissolution, but this has its dis-
advantage in face of the fact that so
far it has been almost as dilatory in
dealing with Senate-reform as it has been
with banking.
Parliament, of course, has power under
Section 9 of the Constitution to alter
the method of choosing Senators, but
in the present state of affairs it would
be almost impossible to pass through
Parliament any measure which would be
helpful, except after a double-dissolution
specifically on the Senate issue. Labor
would do nothing to help destroy the
deadlock which makes the Senate a sort
of despotism which need about
overwhelming victories in the House of
Representatives or people’s mandates.
The state of the Ministry, with several
members not far from retirement, and
with the Budget problems and economic
difficulties in-particular that lie immedi-
ately ahead, in any case will make an
election campaign difficult.
When they decide to face the electors
Mr. Menzies and his followers will need
to prepare their ground well. There
has been so much criticism —some
irresponsible—of their defence and
economic policies and their tolerance of
waterside, seamen’s and other union and
Communist lawlessness that their greatest
election-card is still the fact that the
majority of sensible people believe there
is no alternative to them ; that to hand
the reins of Government to a fellow-
traveller party like Labor, led by men
whose faith in the Kremlin and its
policies has been freely demonstrated,
would be next to insanity.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
SYDNEY’S' pooches have been handed
a raw deal. Whenever a couple of
them want to enjoy a nice, quiet, private
yike in the street, men will appear as if
by magic to sool ’em on and even bet on
the outcome. But whenever the now-
customary man-fight occurs in the
councils of the R.S.P.C.A., Boxers and
bitzers, Poms and Pekes, Dachs and
Dalmatians are denied the heavenly
spectacle. With what ecstasy would a
foxy, had he the chance, bark his
encouragement to an anti-gas-chamber
councillor who was belting the daylights
out of another dog-lover who was a keen
advocate of that method of smothering
the unwanted! I strongly favor allowing
the inmates of the King Edward Dogs’
Home at Moore Park to attend the next
council-meeting ; it’d give them the time
of their lives. —“Bo.”
»> &
“M’Lou”: A swimmer who lost his
teeth in Horsham (Vic.) Olympic pool
thought all was well when divers
recovered a set, but on trying them on he
found they were someone else’s. It was
our bread, not our teeth, that we were
advised to cast upon the waters.
❖ ❖ ***
“Wusslean”: Mrs. Wusslean took a
huge bowl from the fridge and said
proudly: “This is something really
special; it’s called Siberian cream.” A
few mouthfuls of the frothy white con-
coction convinced Mrs. W. (and us) that
an essential ingredient was missing.
Rising to the occasion, I remarked: “Is
it called Siberian cream because it’s a
frozen waste?” The domestic tempera-
ture for some time after was sub-Siberian.
"I love these informal affairs , don't you?"
“Q. Ree” (Fiji): Royal visitors to Fiji
are so used to rowdy welcomes elsewhere
that it must come as a pleasant surprise
to be greeted here by silence. When
Queen Elizabeth came to Lautoka a
photographer exhorted the crowd to
cheer, but raised no more than two feeble
hurrahs from Europeans. The Fijians
who are sitting—as they do on mats
around the enclosure—do not stand when
the Royal visitor arrives. Roth the silence
and the sitting are intended as signs of
respect.
“W.P.T.”: It pains me to read of
someone arranging a rendezvous at the
stinkpot (B. 12/3/’58): it’s enough to
make poor old George Thornton turn
over in his grave. Why not give the
Cleopatra’s Needle sewer-vent its more
familiar name—Thornton’s Scent-bottle?
It was erected to commemorate the Hon.
George Thornton’s election as Mayor of
Sydney for the second time. Perhaps it
would be safe to say that he is the only
mayor to have a sewer-vent erected in his
honor.
*X+ ♦> ♦♦♦
“Archbell”: The late Bob (“Kicker”)
Sloan, one of Wangaratta’s best-known
businessmen, had a neon-sign outside his
, shop. It was a memorable day when
the first “S” went on the blink, leaving
the word “Loans”; locals nearly' drove
Bob mad, popping in on him all day for
a few quid. Towards close-up time some-
one took pity, and pointed-out the sign.
♦j*
“Kinta”: Unusual Christmas-cards (B.
19/2/’58)? One, received from a
research-organisation, appears, at first
glance, to represent a piece of ground
strewn with bits of broken-off matches;
or is it grubs on somebody’s nubbly
carpet? The description overleaf teaches
one not to jump to frivolous conclusions:
“Electronmicrograph of tobacco mosaic
virus showing some instances of extrusion
of nucleic acid from the virus rods. The
electronmicrograph was made during a
programme of study on the biosynthesis
of plant proteins. Magnif. approx,
X 84000.”
FRACTIONAL FITTINGS
“Present-day man uses only about half his
brain.” — C.5.1.R.0. geneticist Dr. A. S. Fraser.
If by chance a large slice of your liver
Were to conk, like a broken-down flivver,
You’d be well on your way “down the
river,”
Your toes pointing up to the sky.
Further, then, to this organ-recital:
How strange that the brain, that s so vital,
Which alone holds mere man to his title
Of lord of the earth, can supply
Enough “juice” to allow
Him to function, somehow,
To his own satisfaction
When at most —what a laugh! —
Not a jot more than half
Of the thing is in action!
But that half of all brains lie a-sleeping
I’d regard as a claim rather sweeping.
What of all those who set the gods
weeping? <
Examples 1 readily quote:
The weird rock-n-roll apparitions ;
The bores of the long disquisitions ;
The couldn t-care-less politicians
Who have to be wakened to vote—
In such cases as those
{And some more) I suppose
You’d be quite right in stating,
If the facts you’d explore,
That a quarter —no more —
Of their brain’s operating!
NJ3.W.
S. W. K.


“They cant agree on anything .”
VI7HAT is a Tasmanian? An American
W magazine-article on dogs stated
that all races had owned dogs
since time immemorial, except Tas-
manians—and “they are extinct.” A little
more tricky is the quotation from an
Australian business - directory firm’s
monthly magazine: “All kinds of people
use the service—city people, country folk,
outback types and Tasmanians.” —
“Laho.”
* -r*
“Doric”: Hundreds of motorists,
including myself, have journeyed all the
way to Warragamba to see the dam under
construction, only to be stopped at a road-
barrier and told that casual visitors are
allowed only on Sundays. Am inclined
to agree with the frustrated New Aus-
tralian in the car ahead Of me who, on
being turned back, exclaimed, “I ’ope
ze bloddy dam falls down!”
“Pip Tok”: So the blacksmith’s anvil
at Gretna Green, over which so many
hundreds of eloping couples held hands
while they took their marriage-vows, has
been locked-up to protect it from the mis-
chievous attentions of students. Gretna
Green’s lure has been dispelled by the
current Scottish marriage-law which
demands that the contracting parties must
have resided in Scotland for three weeks
before the marriage can take place. Up
to a hundred years ago, Gretna Green
marriages were almost fashionable ; one
was the wedding of John Peel, d’ye ken?
♦I- »> *2*
“0.W.W.”: Trying to sit-out an Elvis
film in a Palmerston North (N.Z.) theatre
I was cheered-up by a comment from a
teenaged female in front. “Oh, I wish
Elvis would do a picture wearing kilts.”
ft ft ft
“Kenyas”: Essay by a primary-schooi
boy after a talk, illustrated with gramo-
phone-records, on Robert Schumann:
“Robert Shoeman was a very great
man. He wrote lots of Immortall songs
and the merry peasant. But after he
married C'ara Shoeman the piano playei
he died in a lunatic asylum."
J
’„ w , , . , ,
Rayme : The chain-store rockmelons
were seizing well, customers helping them-
selves. The bell rang for closing-time, and
so as to be ready for the morning an
assistant tipped a new case of melons on
to the counter. They were much bigger
than those which had been left from the
day’s trading, so one woman tipped out
of her bag the two melons she had bought
and selected two larger ones from the
new box. The assistant was still gasping
as she Swept out the door.
* ... ...
“Van”: At a beach near Sydney a new
block of flats with a beautiful view was
sold at a beautiful price, flat by flat.
Shortly after the flats had been sold an
old battered car was seen standing near
the cliff-edge ; it stopped there for weeks
—was it stolen, connected with a murder,
or just cast-off as junk? The police were
called in and speedily solved the mystery.
Apparently its owner had put his last
penny, plus some, into one of the flats,
and when he mixed with his fellow flat-
owners and dwelt in the new luxury he
couldn’t bear to be associated with his
old car. He still needed it, but had
divorced himself from it to the best of
his ability.
“J.T.”: I. wonder what headmasters
think of those luminous socks that are
so fashionable among boys? Perhaps
they’d prefer to see more brightness at
the other extremity.
♦> ♦> ♦>
‘'Peter Simple": My wife was listening
to a serial while I was wiping-up some of
our best cut-glass vases when someone
knocked. I decided to finish the job
before answering, but after two more
peremptory knocks I rushed to the door,
sweeping the most expensive vase off the
kitchen-table. That there was no one
there made me feel pretty hostile, but
I saw blood-red when my wife, after
listening to my story, remarked, “You
silly, didn’t you know the knocks were
on the radio?” How the hell would I
know?
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Ceg”: The piano that kept on tinkling
after the pianist had turned away from
it (B. 12/3/’5B) took me back about 50
years to Stawell (Vic.), where Cole's
Bohemian Company was playing in a
large marquee. They specialised in plays
calling for plenty of action, with horses,
coaches and so on ; “Dick Turpin’s Ride
to York” was a favorite and Westerns
were sure box-office draws. I recall a
Western in which the hero, Dead-shot
Someone, was called-upon to show his
prowess with a six-shooter. Scene, the
“Marvellously Well—and how am I?”


levitable saloon in a one-street Nevada
jwn ; on a small table, close to the back-
loth, stood a lighted candle. Dea'd-shot,
>unging at a table with the corn-likker,
'as suddenly obliged to cross-draw.
Shipping the gun from its holster he
red one shot at the candle-flame. There
'as a deafening explosion, plenty of
noke, but the flame continued to burn,
hen I noticed a hole in the back-cloth,
:om whence came frantic blowing
oises ; at long last the flame wavered
nd went out. But at least he didn’t do
is block and fire eight shots from his
x-shooter.
♦♦♦ *
“Croid”: Strange to recall when, as
ids, we were taken to our first panto-
lime and our accompanying parents
'ere horrified when the Dame said
Dammit!” I wonder what their reac-
on would be to the present-day damna-
>gue nightly chucked across the foot-
ghts?
❖ ♦>
“L.R.M.”: Prepositions are a most
otent part of speech. Two letters can
jverse the meaning of a word, or, what
i worse, create perplexing subtleties,
ake the verb “to retire.” You can retire
> the bosom of your family, your room
r your bed; or from work, social life,
i argument or a fight. There are even
>me situations which you can either
stire to or from ; you can retire to or
om the bar, to the lounge or from the
>unge, or, if you are a racehorse with
le right qualifications, to or from the
ud. It’s enough to induce Naussies
> retire from the study of English.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Old Pivot”: Victoria is to have Aus-
alia’s first “train of knowledge.” It
ill tour the agricultural areas of the
tate with 200 pupils ofMacleod High
:hool; covering 750 miles in six days,
ty children will get a true appreciation
f the country—farms and orchards will
3 among the places visited. Amenities
rovided on the train include a projector,
ck-bay and daily newspaper.
❖ *;« ►>
“Van”: Not until later in life did I
scover why my sister was so nervous as
te train pulled into Culcairn. We were
vay at boarding-school and made the
ip each holidays, changing at Culcairn to
itch the motor-train to Corowa. When
ie motor-train pulled-in she would leap
)oard with an audible sigh of relief,
ears later she confided to me that the
ation-sign, “Change here for Corowa,”
is misread as “Chance here for
orowa.” She believed if she missed that
lance we’d be stranded, and, she said,
The holidays were short enough and I
anted to get home.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Choices”: So the Russians have
fered the Malayans some scholarships in
:ology? The scholars will Strike some
oblems. You can’t teach geology in
lalay, because Malay is anything but a
scientific language; the medium of
instruction will have to be Russian, and
the Malays will need to learn it. Trouble
is, you can’t learn a highly scientific and
literary language such as Russian if the
medium is Malay, because Malay isn’t
scientific, neither is it literary in terms of
Tolstoy and Dostoievsky. Therefore the
medium, for teaching Russian will have
to be English, which the Malays already
know. After that they’ll be able to learn
geology in Russian.
*s»
“Bicky”: Paddy, our small-town baker,
decided to change his Dobbin-drawn cart
for something that ran on petrol and
time-payment. When he did his driving-
test he started off very shakily, but
“Did you feel an earth-tremor just now , Albert ?”
improved a bit until, in a moment of
panic going down a hill, he turned the car
over, spilling the police-sergeant on the
roadway. The sarge collected quite a
few bruises, but Paddy collected nothing
—not even his driving-licence. He had
to wait for that until the sergeant left for
other parts.
♦J* «£♦
“An Chuidh”: “XYZ” is off the track
on Highland regiments and the kilt being
the national dress of the Highlands only
(B. 29/l/’5B). The kilt is the national
dress of Scotland and also of Ireland.
Ireland has its own kilted regiments (Eire,
green kilts, and Ulster an orange kilt),
and any country where either nation sent
immigrants is likewise entitled to kilted
regiments. The Glengarry Fencibles of
Canada immigrated there as a regiment.
Further, there are at least 14 regiments
(of were until recently) raised in the
Highlands; two regiments each of the
Black Watch, Highland Light Infantry,
Seaforth, Camerons and Argyle and
Sutherland Highlanders. Them there is
the Lovat Scouts, partly anti-aircraft and
partly mountain artillery, and the
Scottish Horse, an armored unit. Most
of the overseas regiments (kilted) began
as part of an original Highland
battalion which passed to the control of
the new Government with independence
of the colony. In no way are they
“imitators.”
❖ ❖ ❖ \
“H.S.C.”: Environment is why people
can often hear soft sounds (B. 22/1/’5B)
when they can’t hear loud ones. I used
to make Sunday shooting-trips with a
country representative of a Sydney firm ;
in a pub he always cupped his hand to his
ear and loud speech was called-for, but
while the car-engine wSs running he
could easily hear an ordinary voice from
the back-seat. I know a loco.-driver with
the hard look of the near-deaf on his dial,
but with the loco, clattering on at any
speed he has ordinary conversations with
his fireman. *1 can hear anything said
to me from the end of a bowling-green,
over 100ft., but the same voice close is
just a blur.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Curie”: I was so determined to keep
my own teeth that I always bought the
hardest brush and scrubbed my teeth after
every meal—and scrubbed right through
the enamel! I have taken the first step
towards my second childhood and now
use a child’s toothbrush.


A Page of Verse ...
ONE MAN’S MEASURE
His land will not be measured in fingered
five-pounds
Brought from the back of beyond to
behind the counter /
Gone from the calloused stubs to the soft
flip of fingers
Dabbling in notes, like ducks in mud.
The measure of his land is more music
than money:
Out of fabulous nothing, out of the still
bush
And his memory, comes the ring of axe
and the roar
Of tree against tree, and the startled birds
of the morning.
The birds began the sunrise, but each
day navigated
Ended in the deep, still reaches of the
night.
No cannon for his doldrums, but an
accordion
To sing him songs of his dreaming.
More than words or want of wealth, the
dreaming
Held him, sent him empty-handed out
To shape his wilderness like a man his
music, like a boy
Who- tried to pluck rabbits from a hatful
of nothing.
\
But he plucked more than he bargained,
house and wife
And four grown daughters, only one at
home,
Playing the piano this evening of his
return', ' \
Each note cancelling his mortgage out
of mind.
N.Z.
BARRY MITCALFE.
DEPARTURE
When Uncle Cliff spoke, young men
grinned :
His two fat creaking masts of legs began
Laboriously to uphold the billowing belly
Puffed out by its own wind,
And hands trailed slowly
Like drooping flags beside
The superstructure that held up the man.
So Cliff and speech were launched upon
the tide
That brings a birthday or a wedding
Or wets a baby’s head. At Christmas, too,
Cliff rose to speak, as much a feature as
The sixpence in the pudding.
You’d swear he was
A captain on a bridge,
His brow creased, by the currents that
he knew :
He leaned with dignity, gripped the
table’s edge
And seemed o steer through dangerous
shoals.
—And shoals they were, of platitudes
and jokes
(Sandbanks of boredom for the young
who thought
Their giggling elders fools) :
Cliff was ‘‘a sport” ;
“A trick,” the women said.
But no one laughed (or yawned) that day
at Stokes’ ~
When Cliff pitched forward on the table,
dead.
VICTORIA.
ALECANDERR CEAIG.
SPEAKING OF AGE
There are those intangible fences, higher
still
than a boy’s kite, or its guardian hill . . .
I speak of age —of an age when to speak
is not to be listened to, unless some freak
trick or gesture’s chosen. I cozen the
young
people, still, to hear a poet whose mad
tongue
swings like a bell with tower-ropes broken,
who has had his say . . . But the spoken
word echoes still,
and from the .kite’s hill
I hear “hurrahs!” I had forgotten, when
■ a mere child of ten. I did not think, then,
there was much magic lost in the wild
notes s
of a boy's cries. Now, high over fence
and hill
that voice floats.
Q.
JOHN BLIGHT.
TWO COUNTRY POEMS
(For Nin and Geoff)
I. The Ghost at Anlaby
Noyv sulkies come haunting softwheeled
down the
Leaves ; on the cool veranda over
Whisky, wistaria, gentlemen admire
Antwaisted, hamsleeved, bellskirted ladies
Crossing the lawns with fishtailed
racquets
Intent on tennis. Heart, unlearn your
fire.
Forget now, forget. Below the willows
Tom Roberts squatters, George Lambert
ladies
Whose boots and fancy made this dam a
lake
Think of, remember, no visitant stranger;
—Once love was a sportsman, and l the
quarry,
Who now would sleep with death for
sleep’s kind sake .
But O whose fingers, soft as wistaria,
Played with my watchchain, under the
crabapples ,
Under the lilacs in October flower
Whose fingers like lingering tendrils
twined in
My hair, my beard? What phantom
remembers
That wicked, warm, Edwardian midday
hour ?
Rosella-plumed sun, go quickly down on
My afternoon ghosts. Let purple night
that
Brings all lovers to their billiard-rooms
descend.
Click of the balls. Among wraiths of
cigar-smoke
With rib-nudging stories I died before
telling
I shall go haunting in search of a friend,
a friend.
II. IN PRAISE OF HILLBILLIES.
Harry, who has two squeezeboxes, can
yodel
High as the sun. His music is the spheres
And earth r and all earth’s tears, so that I
tremble
Sitting jacross his bed lest I betray
By weeping how my six unworthy years
Kneel to his seventeen. His drovers’
wives
Tear at my heart, flood, fire, and bullet
slay
His horse, his dogs. He hymns their
blameless lives
In notes that wheeze and mourn, in tones
that pray.
Because past the gumtrees
Of Koogareena
Lie my tomorrows
Of war and danger,
I will sing simply
Of simple sorrows —
And work for death then,
And be no stranger.
Jabulmara’s hands on the guitar
Are long and black, his black feet rise and
fall .
To meet the measures of his repertoire .*
Griefs for departed ballad-singers, praise
Of black sheep filled with brotherlove or
tall
Hellenic stockmen cut down in their
prime
Far from the Flying Doctor. Olden days
And white men’s youth and mothers ask
slow time,
Much sympathy. His eyes fill as he plays .
Although the brown river
Flows back forever
There’s no regaining
The taken city;
In this rock country
No soft complaining,
No harsh rebellion,
But only pity.
Kev, in the country of the myall-tree
Crashes a plastic pick across the strings,
Throws back his head and sings,
enormously,
Of brokenhearted sheilas left behind
In cities he may never know , He brings
Sophistication to the bush with tales
Of shearers loose in Sydney on a blind
And sheikhs in Scrubby Creek. The
listener pales
To think what Kev might come to,
unconfined.
Because past the saltbush
The red road may never
Lead me, in playing
I act out my roaming;
But though I sing only
Of drifting, of straying,
The end is returning —
The song is my homing.
W.A.
RANDOLPH STOW.


POLILCAT POINTS
If Judge McClemens’s description of
a wife as a servant is accepted there are
going to be a terrific lot of married
women asking for a rise when Cahill
brings in equal pay for both sexes.
• • •
Yesterday N. S. Wales Country-party
leader ,M. F. Bruxner celebrated his 76th
birthday and last Thursday he was
congratulated on having served 38 years
in the N: S. Wales Assembly. Half a
lifetime! In one of those unfortunately
rare interludes when party rancor is set
aside, Premier Cahill and Opposition-
leader Morton paid tribute to the old
Lighthorseman. Bruxner was Deputy
Premier to Stevens and Mair irfi 1932-41
and was also Minister for Transport
during that period. In the Bavin-Butten-
shaw Government (1927-30) he was
Minister for Local Government.
• •
When N. S. Wales opens its office in
New York it should put itself forward on
the grandest scale, “not in a meagre or
miserly way,” Cahill told members of
the Australian-American Association
who tendered him a dinner at the Aus-
tralia Hotel. He’d better tell the Yanks
about his railway deficits. Nothing
meagre or miserly about them. In fact,
they’re on the grandest scale.
• •
Protesting against the “Communist-
instigated and -inspired campaign being
carried on against, the Hurseys in
Tasmania” for refusing to pay .a levy
to the A.L.P., a meeting of the Federated
Clerks' Union in Melbourne drew atten-
tion to the conspicuous silence of Dr.
Evatt, the Council for Civil Liberties and
similar leaders
who are usually so vocal on the subject
of political and other freedoms when mem-
bers of the Communist party are involved
in abuses of such rights.
Since late January the Hurseys, father
and son, members of the D.L.P., have
been prevented by their fellow-members
of the Watersiders’ Federation from
reporting for work on the wharves.
• •
Alec Downer, M.H.R. for Angas
(S.A.), becomes Minister for Immigration
in place of A. G. Townley, who has
succeeded Howard Beale as Minister for
Supply and Defence Production. Forty-
seven, an Oxford graduate in arts,
economics and political science and with
a brief experience as a barrister and a
longer period (still in progress) as a
grazier, he has been in the Reps, since
1949. A gpod debater and a frequent
back-bench critic of the Government,
Downer has served on several Parlia-
mentary committees, including the
Foreign Affairs Committee and the com-
mittee that is engaged in reviewing the
Constitution. A gunner in Malaya, he
was a p.-0.-w. in Changi for 3i years.
The new Minister is a son of a former
Premier of South Ausralia, Sir John
Downer, one of the big figures in the
movement for Federation —he was one
of the committee of three which prepared
the final draft of the Constitution and
was a member of the first Senate.
• •
In naming its new university after Sir
John Monash and ignoring the Murray
Report’s suggestion of the University of
Victoria, the Bolte Government has shown
more imagination and commonsense than
the Cahill Government, which is changing
the title of its University of Technology
to University of New South Wales. If
the feeling is that the present name of
the Tech, suggests a restricted field not in
keeping with its expanded activities and
therefore, by implication, inferior to the
century-old Sydney University, the new
one certainly exposes Cahill and Heffron
to the charge that they are trying to give
their Alma Mater (hon.) a status superior
to Sydney Uni,
• •
Refusing requests from girls seeking
a lock of Elvis Presley’s hair when he
gets his first G.I. haircut, U.S. Army
officials have issued a statement saying
that “the hair will go in the trash-can
with all the rest.” The rest of the hair
or the rest of Elvis?
• •
Indignation welled-up in members on
both sides of the House when W. R.
Lawrence, Lib. member for Drummoyne,
said that at one time “the police, out of
the goodness of their hearts, repeatedly
picked-up a drunken politician in this
State and took him to the police-station
to / sleep-off his drunken stupor.”
Members were not, apparently, concerned
that the cops, had been giving M.P.s
favored treatment. Their complaint was
that the story was a reflection on Parlia-
mentarians generally.
Next day, pressed to apologise,
Lawrence did so, saying that his remark
did not refer to any present member of
the N. S. Wales Parliament. Past mem-
bers of the N.S.W. Parliament and
present members of other Parliaments
may now be expected to take umbrage.
• •
Revenue from TV-licences now tops
the million. At the end of February
200,447 had been issued, 104,672 in Vic-
toria and 95,740 in N. S. Wales. The
other 35? They’re in Tasmania, taken-
out by viewers who catch the image as
it bounces across Bass Strait from Mel-
bourne stations.
• •
Its progress speeded by the gag, the
N.S.W. Road-tax Bill passed through the
Assembly and is now in the hands of the
Council. It provides for a charge of
one-third of a penny per ton-mile on all
vehicles with a capacity of more than
four tons, inter-State vehicles included.
The tax is expected to bring in about £3
million a year. It mustn’t be called a
tax, though. Transport Minister Entick-
nap, in introducing the bill, was very
insistent on this point;
To call it a tax involves a complete mis-
• conception Far from being a tax the
charge provided for in this measure is a
studied attempt to apportion the burden of
road-finance on the basis of actual use
and therefore damage done to road-pave-
ments This burden will be distributed
by imposing a charge based as accurately
as possible on the use made of the roads
by the individual operator.
There is really no Road-tax Bill; its
proper name is Road Maintenance (Con-
tribution) Bill and all those one-thirds-
of-a-penny that the hauliers will be
billed-for won’t taxes at all, but con-
tributions. Thd hauliers, of course, can
call ’em what they like—so long as they
pay-up. *
• •
On the score of past pre-election
performances, Bolte feared a great out-
break of parish-pump electioneering on
Supply in the Victorian Assembly last
week and announced the House would sit
overnight until it was passed. Back-
benchers, also on the score of past
performances, reckoned the press-gallery
would not be too alert in the early morn-
ing, and the result was that Supply went
through in seven hours—Sailor’s Guide
time.
The few Labor speeches were pretty
listless, and there is a wild hope stirring
among some Libs, that the chief fire at
the May elections will be sparked from
A.L.P. and D.L.P. contests.
• ■ •
Retirement at the end of the present
Federal Parliament of H. A. Bruce, Labor
member for Leichhardt (Q.) since 1951.
will make the contest for that seat an
interesting one. Bruce’s majority has
always been handy, but by no means
unassailable —in 1955 it was 1261—and
Country-party candidate Gilmore, who
held the seat from 1949 to 1951, has stuck
pertinaciously to his heels for three
elections.
• •
Opening of the Lucas Heights reactor
on April 18 by the Prime Minister
should be followed by greatly expanded
use of isotopes by Australian industry.
There are amazing possibilities for
industry, including food-preservation,
destruction of -pests and the making of
improved plastics. The U.S. Atomic
Energy Commission estimates that
isotopes gave American industry a direct
cash-saving of 500-million dollars last
year, and that by 1965 the savings will
reach 5000-million dollars.


“When I joined the R.S.P.C.A. as a
councillor early last year I was surprised
to find that the society did nothing to
prevent cruelty to animals,” said W. R.
Lawrence, M.L.A., in Sydney “Sunday
Telegraph.” “I saw councillors gather in
small groups before meetings to discuss
other members. It was futile to try to
gcijt any work done on the council.”
Perhaps a few words from another
M. who was associated with the
N. section of the R.S.P.C.A. a few
years ago might throw further light on
its decline and fall. Anything to say,
Clive?
• _ •
The rights and wrongs of equal-pay-
for-both-sexes are having an airing as a
result of the N. S. Wales Government’s
expressed intention of bringing it in for
State awards by legislation. Judgment
one way or the other depends on the
premises on which the arguments are
based. If a wage-system is based on
equitable payment for work done, the
case for equal pay is unanswerable. If,
however, the basic wage contains some
social component, the position is differ-
ent. The Australian wage-system at the
present time is in a very complicated
state. At one time it strove largely to
represent a living-wage for a man, wife
and family, but recent judgments have
stressed more “the capacity Of industry
to pay.”
As the granting of full rates to women
would add more to the nation’s wage-bill
without adding to industry’s capacity to
pay it seems obvious that higher pay for
women would mean the postponement of
any increase in the male basic wage. If
the Labor movement is prepared to
accept that, along with the higher prices,
especially in the clothing industry, which
the move would necessitate, then it is
justified in supporting the Cahill Govern-
ment’s plan. But it should not shut its
eyes to facts.
• •
Where Cahill offends is not in advoca-
ting equal pay but in by-passing his own
Industrial Commission and seeking to
establish it by legislation. If he believes
the time has come for the move, why not
refer it to the commission for dispas-
sionate consideration? If Mr. Maloney’s
investigation genuinely shows that the
economy can stand it, surely an investi-
gation by the commission would show
the same result —and be free from
suspicion of political bias? The suspicion
is unavoidable that Cahill feels the
commission would not give the answer;
he wants.
• •
According to the Institute of Public
Affairs the Federal Tax Department
spends £8 million a year, and the Customs
another £4 million. There are State tax-
authorities collecting entertainment- and
land-taxes and such, and tax staffs of
municipal councils collecting rates. In
total the cost of tax-collection must be
at least £lO million.
But that’s just the beginning! All
businesses have to employ staff to work-
out income-tax returns, keep records for
payroll-tax, sales-tax and employees’ tax-
deductions. Tax-collection costs of com-
panies are estimated at £2 million. The
cost for small businesses, farmers and
professional men employing solicitors and
accountants to compile their returns
could be three times as much ; and it all
gets up to around £2O million a year.
• •
Tom Dougherty, general secretary of
the A.W.U., is to be “disciplined” by the
A.L.P. executive for absenteeism from
meetings of the N. S. Wales Legislative
Council. Since his election last year he
has attended only two sittings and has
made one speech. Dougherty has always
advocated abolition of the Council and
when elected he gave the impression that
he might be able to work more effectively
towards that end from inside the Council
than outside it. Perhaps he’s trying other
tactics —abolition by example. If he can
persuade all the other M.L.C.s to stay
away the Upper House will die from
sheer inanition.
• •'
The A.C.T.U., in a letter to Dr. Evatt,
has demanded the withdrawal by Senator
Benn of his interjection that Albert Monk
was drunk when he discussed unemploy-
ment on TV.
Pressure is being put on Benn to with-
draw and apologise ; some of the caucus
big-wigs are extremely sensitive to the
prospects of getting offside with the
unions in election-year.
Some of the older members of caucus
were thoroughly shocked at the attacks on
Monk ; they were sickened by some of
the epithets used such as “tool of the
Tory Government,” “no - hoper” and
“stoolie.”
Monk’s close supporters in the unions
are not likely to forget the unseemly
incident.
• •
[From Canberra]
The nature of the Country-party leader-
ship and the Treasury portfolio will be clari-
fied after this week’s meeting of the Parlia-
mentary Country party, summoned to dis-
cuss Sir Arthur Fadden’s retirement.
Fadden is expected to name Deputy C.P.-
leader McEwen for the top post, and, in
this, will be supported by Sir Earle Page.
As with S’Artie’s own coming to office, the
choice of McEwen will be more a matter of
convenience than of popular selection. The
C.P. is not anxious to lose the services of
a senior man who also ranks among the top
four in the Cabinet just prior to the elec-
tions. Those close to Fadden and Page say
that if it were not election-year, genial P.M.G.
Charlie Davidson would go close to toppling
McEwen in a ballot.
But shrewd Earle Page and Fadden, who
have never hesitated to state that the Federal
Country party will never be swailowed-up
while they are at the helm, can see that such
a switch at this stage could cost them plenty.
They still do not expect the Country party
to lose the Treasury, but Liberal backbenchers,
tired of almost nine years’ rule of the political
purse-strings by Fadden, are anxious for it to
be one of the Liberal plums after December
next.
Possibly Menzies himself might retain it
for a while after the election pending a per-
manent selection.
"SELLING AUSTRALIA"
“The latent wealth of Australia has scarcely been scratched. Me and the
Trades Hall won’t let it be!”


PERSONAL ITEMS
Roy McCaughey has given a bull to
the Royal Blind Society of N. S. Wales.
The gift, Coonong Distinction (red-roan,
calved Feb. 1, 1956, by the imported Cal-
rossie Tranquil out of Augustine 2nd),
will be shown at the Royal Easter Show
by the Royal Blind Society, and subse-
quently (March 31) auctioned by Com-
monwealth Wool. Coonong Distinction
was champion at Wagga and reserve-
champion at Holbrook last year.
• •
Just on 24 years after he started a
small airline from Cootamundra, in
N. S. Wales, to Charleville, in Queens-
land, Arthur Butler has resigned from
the board of the company which, as
Butler Air Transport, Ltd., had become
the biggest Australian intra-State airline,
and did a great deal to change the pattern
of life in outback parts. Having, as every-
one knows, lost the final round of a
commercial-cwm-legal fight with another
airline. But his place is secure in the
small band of men who were pioneers
of Australian aviation. He broke the
then record for an England-to-Australia
flight in 1931 and, a year earlier, he had
designed, built and air-tested the first all-
metal plane to be designed and flown in
Australia. A capable engineer (he holds
all his ground-tickets), he kept up his
flying over the years, and was very
popular with his staff, many of whom
became shareholders in the company. Not
surprising, perhaps, that a man of tnis
stamp isn’t content to play second-fiddle
in the organisation he has built-up from
practically nothing, but a pity if his ser-
vices should be lost to Australian
aviation altogether.
• •
Victoria’s new university will honor
belatedly the late General Sir John
Monash. It will be known as Monash
University because a chemist a few
months ago thought enough of his idea
to write a letter to “The Age” suggesting
it. The chemist is Dr. R. G. Gillis, who
is with the defence standards laboratories,
Supply Department. When the Univer-
sity of Technology was first proposed
in 1956, he and Dr. J. M. Swan, of the
C.5.1.R.0., suggested the name, and Dr.
Gillis brought it up again in “The Age”
last December.
Gillis’s suggestion is apposite. In addi-
tion to his brilliant soldiering, Monash
took degrees in arts, engineering and
law ; he developed the State Electricity
Commission from a hole in the ground ;
he was one of the most brilliant
scholars in the history of Scotch, and he
was personally one of the most engaging
and companionable Jews ever to add
color to the Melbourne scene.
Herewith Ray Ormes, boss of the
composing-room; The Bullet,n’s oldest
inhabitant in Sydney, and the
second-oldest on the Staff-Frank Smith,
in W.A., has been with the paper longer.
Ray joined The Bulletin if September,
1907, as a boy. The “Lone Hand” had
recently started, and Ray, who had been
reader’s copy-holder with John Sands,
working on the N.S.W. Bookstalls’ series
of Australian books, had acquired an
early taste for Australian literature.
Printer’s-ink was already in his blood.
His father ran a paper at Grenfell
(N.S.W.), when there were 20,000 people
on the Emu Creek diggings.
When Ray came to The Bulletin
Archibald had retired, James Edmond
was editor, and S. H. Prior had been
RAY ORMES
brought from the “Barrier Miner” to
take Edmond’s place in the “Wild Cat”
department. Ray has many tales of
Jimmy Edmond, whom he considers the
most brilliant and versatile journalist he
has known —and one of the hardest-
working. He was at his desk at 8.30
every morning, Ray says, and at 9.30 at
night his light was still burning.
Ray is a tower of strength in the
Cammeray Progress Association, of
which he was president for six years
(he’s now president of the North Sydney
Federation of Progress Associations). The
Cammeray Association is a very active
one, fosters a variety of culture —music,
play-reading, junior ballet —and, inci-
dentally, has made absorption into a
strange life pleasant for quite a few New
Australians—as some of them have
related in newspaper interviews. There
is now a kindergarten scheme in train . . .
But Ray Ormes, despite his general
geniality, can, on occasion, go monu-
mentally crook. One of his pet aversions
is late copy. So, much as one would like
to write more about the kindergarten
scheme and about the Progress Associa-
tion generally, this copy must go straight
down the chute . . .
• 5
“Nairb”: The Personal Items par. (B.
12/3/’5B) on Ivan Dougherty failed to
mention his interest in racing. When he
was brigadier commanding “Makforce”
in the Celebes it was my job to fly him
around.
We were returning from Pare Pare,
where the Brig, accepted the Jap sur-
render, when he
touched my arm,
saying, “That looks
like a race-meet ng
down there.” Some-
what incredulous —
we were 40 miles
from anything larger
than a village—l
banked the Auster
to port and the:e
they were, half-a-
dozen hay-burners
moving anti-ciock-
wise at a sedate
hand - canter under
the guidance of
colorfully-clad Indo-
nesian jockeys.
“Like a closer
look, sir?” The
Brig, smiled, but
before he nodded
agreement, he cast
an eye at the fuel-
gauge. An eye for
detail.
Reducing throttle,
we came down gently
just above and
behind the field. If
there were any nags
running dead that
afternoon they died
of fright. As 1
throttled on again
into a steep-climbing
turn, we had a final
glimpse of the
jockeys trying to
climb over their horses’ heads. We didn’t
see the finish of that race. When I swung
back on course for Macassar those ponies
were belting around the third lap at
something more than a hand-canter.
• •
Flitting through Sydney unnoticed
by the post-war world, but very much
noticed by business associates, is Percy
Hunter, whose name was once a house-
hold word in politics. At 82 he is still
slim and straight and goes up the slope


of Hunter Street (which, as he used to
explain, was not named after him) like
steam. Hunter began life as a political
reporter in Albury—at 15 and in short
pants. With an interval during which
he became the pioneer of Australian
tourist-publicity in London, Hunter knew
the whole range of Commonwealth
political history at first-hand from the
second Federal Convention to the
end of the Hughes era. He became a
power in Nationalist politics behind the
scenes. Hunter was a member of the first
two Australian delegations to the League
of Nations, represented Australia at the
Immigration Conference at Rome in
1924, became general-manager of the
Pacific Cable organisation and later retired
into finance and commerce. He was one
of the fathers of skiing in Australia, and
it was largely his drive which first
popularised Kosciusko. Nearly 30 years
ago Billy Hughes remarked: “Poor old
Percy! Going downhill.” A year after-
wards Percy married for the second time
at the age of 55 and started raising a
family of six sons.
• •
Interviewed in Sydney, Admiral Sir
Gerald Vaughan Gladstone, C.8.E.,
C.-in-C. Far East Station (sketched here
by Prior), said he hadn’t wanted to be
an admiral, particularly. But in manner
and appearance he fits so perfectly one’s
conception of an English admiral
including a certain reserve, and an unob-
trusive, but keen, sense of humor —that
this interviewer had the impression that
he couldn’t have escaped his destiny, even
if he’d joined the Army. The Lords of
the Admiralty would have spotted him,
and press-ganged him into the senior
service—which he joined, in fact, during
War I.
Executive-officer of Fiji when the
cruiser was sunk off Crete, four hours in
the drink did nothing to soften such
obvious admiral-material. But first he
took command of the sloop Pelican,
hunting subs, in the eastern Atlantic, was
“mentioned,” and on his promotion to
SIR GERALD VAUGHAN
GLADSTONE
captain at the end of 1942 went to the
Admiralty to serve in the torpedo and
mining department as an assistant-
director, remaining in this appointment
until January, 1945, when he took
command of H.M.S. Black Prince for
service ill the Pacific. Since the war he
has had several appointments, including
that as Captain of the Fleet to the
Commander-in-Chief, Mediterranean. He
commanded H.M.S. Vanguard in 1949.
Vice-Admiral in 1955, he was appointed
Commander, Allied Naval Forces,
Northern Europe (a Nato command
under the Supreme Allied Commander in
Europe) the same year, and became C.-
in-C. Far East Station last year. Asked
whether he was personally worried by the
situation in Indonesia, he said, “Not in
the least —I’m not a shareholder in
Caltex.”
• •
John, eldest son of Staniforth Ricket-
son, chief of J. B. Were and Son, the
Melbourne brokers, has been elected to
the Stock Exchange of Melbourne. He
is a great-great-grandson of Jonathan
Binns Were, who founded the firm and
was the first chairman of Melbourne
’Change. The new member, a Geelong
Grammarian, joined the Victorian
Scottish and was a member of the
Armored Division for six war-years. He
turned his back on broking after the war
and was with two Holden distributors,
Queensbridge and Rhodes Motors, for
eight years, but in 1955 he returned to
the fold at Were’s.
• •
W. H. Wilcock, formerly Assistant
Governor (Administration) of the Com-
monwealth Bank, is settling-in in Kuala
Lumpur (F.M.S.) in his new job as bank-
ing adviser to the Malayan Federation.
His principal task is to advise and assist
in the establishment of a Malayan central
bank. It is expected that he will be
overseas for several years.
Bill Wilcock is one of several Ballarat-
born members of the present-day banking
fraternity who have done well. He
joined the Commonwealth Bank in 1921,
and was appointed to staff administration
in 1930, where he remained (and
advanced) until he was seconded to
Malaya, with a break only during 1940-45,
when he was the bank’s assistant secre-
tary. During Wilcock’s term in staff
administration the classification system
was introduced into the bank’s service,
together with ex-servicemen’s training-
schools, and the Staff Training College
was established. He also took a leading
part in the establishment of a Bankers’
Administrative Staff College, but until
his transfer to Malaya found time to play
golf regularly at Killara.
• •
Herewith Gerard Noall, chairman of
the Melbourne Stock Exchange, looking
happy after his best-ever round of golf.
After many years he reduced his handi-
cap to single figures, and in so doing won
a long-standing wager. Fortunately his
friend —who promptly paid-up—had a
GERARD NOALL
long memory. Gerard’s son is also in
the family stockbroking firm of William
Noall and Son.
• •
William Wright, Australian representa-
tive on the Universal Postal Union and
therefore Commonwealth Controller of
Mail Exchange Services, retires on April
25, the anniversary of the day he landed
at Gallipoli, and also of his marriage.
Last year he was chairman of the air-
mail congress of the Postal Union at
Ottawa. He began as a telegraph-
messenger in 1906, and after the First
World War studied French, the language
of the union (in which he has been known
by his international colleagues as le
Colonel), and other languages; so he was
a ready-made candidate for a vacancy in
the Australian postal team. Australian
postal efficiency is well-regarded overseas.
Wright has given a good deal of advice
to small countries and to the Russians
on how to keep the mail going through in
sparsely populated areas.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Wellington, N.Z., at 86, Barry R. Kees-
ing, well known in commercial circles. Mem-
ber of the first Olympic Games Association
council, and member of the management-com-
mittee when the Davis Cup tourney was held
in Auckland.
In Melbourne, at 72, Vernon Ransford,
former Australian Test-cricketer and repre-
sentative baseballer and lacrosse-player. He
played in 20 Tests, 15 against England and five
v. South Africa. He was the first Victorian
batsman to make a century in each innings of a
first-class match (182 and 110 against N.S.W. in
1909). A. G. Moyes, in Australian Batsmen,
describes him as “a lovely batsman who
introduced into his batting a freshness of
approach one of Australia’s gifted left-
handers.” He was secretary of the Melbourne
Cricket Club from 1939 to 1957.
In Adelaide, at 82, Sir Thomas George
Wilson, leading gynaecologist and obstetrician.
In 1910 he started an ante-natal clinic at the
Royal Adelaide Hospital—probably the first
clinic of its type in Australia. Actively
associated with the Mothers and Babies’ Health
Association, and an honorary at Royal Adelaide
for over 30 years.
In Sydney, at 62, T. J. Kelly, secretary of
the Plasterers’ Union and deputy-chairman of
the Housing Commission.


ABORIGINALITIES
THE ABO. CHESS-PLAYER
THE story of the fullblooded aborigine
who was a champion chess-player
may not be the baseless fabrication that
Professor John Greenway assumes (B.
28/8/’57). It could have derived from a
story vouched-for by W. Comerford of
Wentworthville (N.S.W.), who possesses
the chessboard mentioned later and would
supply, in private, more intimate details.
The story:
During the tough times of the bank-
failure in the ’9o’s a young German
migrant took to the track with a
soldering-iron and camera as his tools of
trade. He managed to scrape a living by
moving from homestead to homestead
taking family photographs and mending
anything from a tin-mug to a thousand-
gallon tank.
One summer afternoon, riding through
a particularly wild stretch of country, he
came into a clearing in which stood a
tumbledown hut. An abo. was bending
over a small fire, obviously trying to
cook his evening meal before the storm
rolling up from the west broke.
He was raggedly dressed, and his long,
tangled hair protruded through the jagged
hole in the crown of his greasy, shapeless
felt hat. However, he looked up and
nodded a welcome.
The newcomer (for convenience hence-
forth called Muller), his eye trained to
notice such things, detected the broken
down-pipe leading to the tank.
“You won’t catch much water out of
this storm the way that is,” he told the
owner, and taking a soldering-iron out
of his saddlebag, slipped it into the fire.
The first isolated raindrops were falling
when he wiped the spirits-of-salts off the
finished job and murmured to himself the
Latin version of “Practice makes perfect.”
Amazed, he heard the ragged derelict
answer, also in Latin: “And experience
teaches.”
Muller sheltered in the hut With the
aborigine and accepted the invitation to
stay the night.
During the meal the black man asked
whether his guest happened to play chess.
No longer amazed at a ragged black-
fellow who tossed-off Latin quotations
and carried-on a more enlightened con-
versation than the majority of whites,
Muller replied that he did, and would
enjoy a game.
The host produced a wooden chess-
board —a beautiful thing made of inlaid
timbers, and bound, hinged and clasped
with brass.
Muller, although considered an
excellent player, failed to take a game.
In the morning the aborigine said:
“That board was given to me by a don at
Oxford. It’s too good to be wasted here.
I want you to have it.”
Muller protested. It was too fine a
thing to be given away so lightly. More-
over, what about it’s history?
The other insisted on the gift being
accepted, and beyond admitting that he
had been a student at Oxford University,
would give no more information.
Muller never saw him again.
"COR many years, wherever he
-*• wandered, Muller kept an ear ever
listening for any tiny piece of informa-
tion that might help to build-up the gaps
in the strange story. Then he happened
“She Was only a Japanese ballet-dancer, but she knew her jiu-jitsu all right!"
on a lead. An abo. had once managed
a certain station for several years ; he
had been a remarkably clever fellow, very
well educated.
Muller probed until he got the whole
story. Nearly 40 years before, an abo.
stockman had been killed while breaking-
in a horse. The boss of the station took
over the responsibility of looking after
the dead man’s son. Sent to school, the
boy showed brilliance at his lessons,
completely surpassing the boss’s own
children.
The schoolmaster advised the voluntary
guardian, “Push that boy for all you
are worth. I would not set a limit on
his capabilities.”
So the aboriginal boy advanced, finally
graduating at Oxford.
He returned to find the station in a
bad way financially. His guardian had
been a better practical worker than busi-
nessman. Automatically the foster-son
took over. Through his contacts in
Sydney he arranged finance, then set
to work establishing business methods
and efficient organisation. Gradually he
built the station up to a highly pros-
perous run.
Then, one morning his foster-family
came to breakfast and found a note on
the table. ,/It stated, “Gone walkabout.
Sorry.”
Muller established a plumber’s shop in
a well-known country town, invested in
farm property, and on retiring, moved
closer to Sydney. When he died, much of
his property was left to a young man
who had been like a son to him.
Among that property was the chess-
board.
B. A. Ker.
* * * *
“E.H.M.”: Teaching in the bush cer-
tainly has its compensations. Sent the
boys out equipped with butterfly-nets to
catch a few specimens for the nature-
study spasm. One lad turned up with a
fine specimen of a copperhead 2ft. 6in.
long. He couldn’t have cared less about
its not being winged.
• • * *
“Birubi”: Three weeks entirely alone
in Tasmania’s isolated and wild South-
west was New Australian Olegas
Truchanas’ way of spending his holiday.
With an lift, canoe, weight 501 b., he shot
over 100 rapids and waterfalls on the
Gordon River. Down 30 or 40 of them he
had to lower the canoe by rope. Four
times he took it to pieces and carried it
over mountains. At the junction of two
rivers he carried the canoe past one
gorge with walls 3000 ft. high. This gorge
he has named the Gordon Splits, which in
parts was only 15ft. wide.
• * • *
“O. K. Lee”: When her new car
stranded young Miss Woolbales 20 miles
from town in the middle of a shimmer-
ing heat-haze on the black-soil, she wel-
comed the assistance of a khaki-shirted
and -trousered young chap in a ute. He
examined the innards of the immobile
chariot with a patience that drew from


tlleuu, TH£tf,e you .
Bo T ( MUST APMIT l CANT
GZT HiM TO KEEP TALL)/
OvE£ A THOUSAND ,


Miss W. the permission, “You can
swear if you like! ” He not availing him-
self of the dispensation, the lass said
“Well, if you won’t I will! ” and released
an effort which her deceased bullocky
grandsire would have admired. The late-
model coughed and sprang to vigorous
life ; Miss W. thanked the stranger and
disappeared townwards in a haze of dust.
At dinner at the hotel she again met the
helpful young man, now wearing a
clerical collar —the new clergyman at the
church maintained largely by the contri-
butions of her father.
* * * *
“Dallyn”: There is neither trade-
secret nor mystery about' collections of
birds’-eggs having only one hole (B.
12/3/’5B). The method used 40 years
ago on the N.S.W. north coast was to
puncture the egg and place it on an ants’-
nest. It was amazing how quickly it was
cleaned-out.
“Siame”: They even have Siamese-twin
earthworms in the Wimmera (Vic.).
One dug up on a Wallup East farm, the
first found in over 20 years digging for
fishing-worms, was normal for half its
length, then divided into two separate
heads.
.
“Bass”: A cyclone cruising off the
north-Westralian coast struck at Onslow
and went inland ; and hundreds of miles
south a family of New Australians in a
car were bogged and marooned in country
that should have been capable of carry-
ing trucks. They weren’t rescued much
too soon. That’s a typical danger of our
north that you have to experience to
appreciate. You can tell a newcomer to
the north-west that a storm 50 miles
away, from which he didn’t get a drop of
rain, will wash-out the camp he’s built
on the edge of a creek ; and although he’ll
believe you it won’t sink in until he sees
his-goods floating away on a wall of
water that appeared from nowhere. Even
old-timers can get trapped—you can’t
postpone a trip on the offchance that a
sudden storm will strike the country
higher up before you get through. But a
man who’s been caught once will keep
his wits well about him when he’s making
through creek-country in the cock-eye
season.
* * * *
“H.C.8.”: The tide was running in
fast, and as I waded thigh-deep in the
clear watef I saw coming towards me
with a fast, rolling gait, huge claws held
high like the gloved arms of a victorious
boxer, a crab, its body the size of a
small plate. He sighted me and propped.
His opened claws, which had apparently
been held in the handiest position to snap-
up any prey being borne in on the tide,
dropped to a menacing “on-guard.” For
some seconds we watched each other
without moving. Then the thought
occurred to me: Would he, knowing he’s
defenceless if grabbed from behind, pivot
to keep an eye on me if I circled him?
To find out, but with no intention of
getting near fhose claws, I moved around.
He watchecf me until I’d completed a
quarter of the circle ; 'then with a light-
ning movement of his back legs he had
swished the sand out from beneath his
vulnerable end and was half-submerged.
But he was now literally standing on his
tail, body vertical. A master move —his
eyes commanded every point of the com-
pass and his claws had a 360-degree
range.
* * * *
“Nimrod”: An abo. in hospital at
Leonora (W.A.) hadn’t the foggiest as to
how to turn off the electric-light, the
globe and the switch not being associated
in his mind ; so he went to the problem
in forthright manner and simply seized
the flex and pulled it out by the roots!
“Been down there long?”
DICK
When winter comes to Queensland, then
he’ll come,
When days with early frosts are getting
bitter;
I’ll wake one morn to hear his twitter,
twitter,
And find him in the peach-tree, quite at
home,
Or on the silver-frosted garden loam,
Picking amongst the fallen leaves and
litter.
I have no knowledge of his family-
name ;
(/ call him Dick ); no more than whence
he came.
His waistcoat’s white; but glossy on his
back
He wears a long-tailed, long-sleeved coat
of black,
With a cap upon his cranium,
Red as a petal of geranium.
N.S.W.
HUI TE RANGIORA.


“T. 0.5.”: Jacky, tired of ringing in
the Territory, pulled-out and went into
Cloncurry and took a job on a station.
On his first morning the boss dug him
out at sparrow-chirp. As he fought his
way up out of the blankets he said
“Wbasa matter; whasa time?” “It’s
four o’clock,” said the boss. “Time
you’re up and doin’ somethin’.” “Four
o’clock!” wailed Jacky. “By hell, it’s a
hearly climate down ’ere, aint it!”
WIMMERA HARVEST
The throbbing air of the plain beats
On the brown
Which flats to sky-bend, while the sun
heats
And men frown.
A farmer fevered with hay glares
Through red rims
At wheaten fires that the wind flares,-
The dust dims.
The harvesters stop, men descend,
The grain flows.
The bags stand up at the sun’s end
In squat rows.
VICTORIA.
J. M. STEVENSON.
NEWS UNDER THE COCONUTS
is Station VQO Honiara
calling. Here is the news. Sister
Teresa shot a twelve-foot crocodile at the
mission station last week. This is her
third in six weeks . . .
“The shipping agents advise that the
M.V. Bulaga sailed from Sydney yester-
day, and is due to arrive in ten days time.”
To those who live on the scattered
Solomon Islands these things are big
news. The small happenings on the next
island seem far more important than
another Summit meeting, and a ship
means surface-mail and stores. VQO is
on the air for one hour each night, from
Monday to Saturday, and it is never dull.
Music comes first, and includes a
request-session in pidgin once a week.
The Melanesians thoroughly enjoy this,
as most of them understand pidgin, and
of course, those who have been to school
can appreciate all the broadcasts.
The Protectorate’s only cinema, on the
island of Guadalcanal, advertises each
night. The box-office blurb seems a waste
of good time when your own island is
100 miles away across the Pacific. After
the Government notices, the bakery lets
you know the latest prices and reminds
us of the high cost of living. Small
meat-pies are Is. 6d., and hot-dogs are
recommended as the latest thing. Frozen
apples and apricots, and fresh meat and
butter, are all stocked by the butcher,
but are as remote as home, unless one has
plenty of money, and knows when a ship
with refrigeration is likely to call.
The shipping news mentions even the
smallest launch, if it has entered or left
the main port that day, and the special
forecast for small ships is never omitted.
We all depend on them in some way, and
sometimes tragedy comes. Two
Europeans were drowned not long ago,
“That’s YOUR trouble, Fullary—always Wanting to be somewhere else."
when a small launch was swamped within
sight of home. The two Melanesians with
them did all they could to save them, but
were separate^. by darkness, and they
themselves had to stay afloat for nine
hours before they were washed up miles
away. The wireless-reception at that time
was very bad, and the suspense of waiting
for news was made much worse by voices
which faded into silence. '
Rut there is much to laugh at. One
request-item, asked for by European
newly-weds, was “I Wish I Had You
Alone on a Desert Island.”
One evening tenders were invited for
catching and removing an unknown
number of wild horses from a plantation,
and the announcer followed this with
the number, “It Would Take More Than
A Pack Of Wild Horses.”
The most absorbing listening is ddring
the special schedules, when all stations
and plaptations with transmitting-sets
are called-up each day. It is quite legal to
listen to. the whole broadcast, because
one cannot be certain of the minute when
one’s own call will come, but the penalty
for repeating the information is a fine of
£5O.
All sorts of news passes across—many
messages about Government and mission
staff, as. they are constantly travelling
about. Advice is asked for dealing with
illnesses and accidents in places where
no doctors are available, and that means
most places. Orders for timber are
placed, and cables sent to Australia for
spare parts for ships or tractors.
One of the most intriguing messages
ever sent was on the ships’ schedule. A
mission ship was on a long voyage to a
distant group of islands, with the usual
crowd of passengers who had been waiting
for months for a ship going in their direc-
tion. A Melanesian mother’s milk-supply l
failed suddenly, so the skipper signalled
the hospital to ask for a milk-recipe,
Bottle-feeding of babies is unknown out-
side the hospital, and the Melanesian
operator could not make any sense of the
directions. In desperation he broke into
pidgin: “Me no savvy altogether, but me
think him kai-kai belong piccaninny.”
A dentist flies up for a fortnight every
s ix mon ths, and the date of his arrival is
broadcast in plenty of time. The
passenger-list of the thrice-monthly plane
t o Sydney, with brief remarks about
destinations, is often interesting, and so is
the police-court news. Nothing dramatic
by some standards—Rono of Oba was
sentenced to prison for one month. He
stuck a spear into a pig that did not
belong to him . . . Billy Tao broke the
rules of the road by riding a bicycle with-
out lights in Honiara, and was fined
ten-shillings ”
It may be years before the SoIomo „
Islands are on the air all day: there are
onl 150 |icensed rece ivmg-sets in the
whole prote ctorate, and Government
staff 0 ate the station in addition t 0
thejr normal duties But jf want to
hear some thing really different switch on
one m g b( the experimental short-wave
transmission on 5960 kc/s at 0700-0800
Greenwich Mean Time
MARION CURTIS.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(.Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager (or Australia.
Business, Robbery, Ete.
H. G. PALMER (CONSOLIDATED), LTD.
BEGINNING in 1934 as a
retailer and distributor of
electrical appliances and radio,
Herbert George Palmer, ot-
Bankstown, then 20 years of
age, really started something.
But it wasn’t until 1949, when
the still-small business was
floated into a public co., that
the quite astonishing series of
events, trading and financial,
began.
The Palmer family sold their
shares in the four original pro-
prietary companies for
£66,935 in 1949, and very
soon afterwards exercised
their right to take-up most
of it in shares in the new
Consolidated company. The
first balance-sheet of the new
co. showed paid capital at
£34,000 ; the second disclosed
it at £189,375, of which
£30,000 was 6 p.c. prefs. It
stayed at that figure for the next
three years; then £150,000 of
p.c. pref. money was issued*
making the total £339,375. And
on that amount of capital the
co. has done remarkable things
- remarkable expansion,
remarkable profit - earning,
and remarkable borrowing.
Today there are 18 shops and
showrooms—Auburn, Banks-
town, Bondi Junction, Bur-
wood, Campsie," Caringbah,
Crow’s Nest, Eastwood, Fair-
field, Hurstville, Manly,
Marrickville, Newtown, Parra-
matta, Penrith, Rockdale, Top
Ryde and Wollongong (where
the co. has had interests from
yery early in its career).
At June, 1953, H. G.
Palmer (Consolidated), Ltd.,
and its subsidiaries had
creditors (apart from tax-
provision) of £276,616. Then
its dramatic policy of borrow-
ing to finance time-payment
sales to its customers and
purchase of premises began,
and on a paid capital unchanged
at £189,375 it owed outsiders
other than the tax-commissioner
£1,834,208 at the 1954 balance-
day ; by June, 1955, the amount
had grown to £2,587,917 on a
capital increased by £150,000
of 1\ p.c. pref. money.
In 1956 the co. went out
after more borrowed money
to cope with its expansion,
both in respect of additional
premises and financing new
t.-p. sales, with particular
emphasis on TV. It offered
interest ranging from 6i p.c. for
six months’ deposits to 10 p.c.
for three years’. By June 30
last it had £2,004,642 of this
type of deposit on its books,
and total outside liabilities had
reached £4,397,524.
The financial structure at this
stage (with comparisons with
the preceding year) looked like
this:
Consolidated Figures.
Capital— 1956. 1907.
Ord .. .. £159,375 £159,3(5
Pre f 189,000 180,000
RosorvOs .. 321,655 759,( (4
Outside interests 16,660 16,188
Secured loans . . 2,200,835 1,830,356
Unsecured loans 102,626 24,536
Fixed-deposit
Notes 2,004,642
Mortgages . . 4 4,500 140,590
Sundry creditors 274,971 361,766
Overdraft .. 188,943
H.-p. creditors.. 19,569 35.634
Tax provision .. 92,762 130,418
Final div. ~ 11,681 11,681
£3,613,577 £5,654,960
Land, buildings,
plant .. .. 623,830 977,638
Shares in co. . . 85,200 85,200
Stock .. . . 399.014 705,267
T.-p.’s and debtors 2,378,565 3,128,307
Cash. etc. .. 9,080 367,866
Intangibles .. 126,888 3f)0,682
£3,613,577 £5,654,960
Most of the £5.6 million of
liabilities and shareholders’
funds was represented by t.-p.
and other debts owing to the
co. (£3.1 million) and land,
buildings and plant (£977,638),
the latter item having been
increased by revaluation during
the year as well as by additions.
Stock figured at £705,267
(against a turnover for the year
of over £3 million).
In July, 1956, managing-
director H. G. Palmer
announced that the
chief subsidiary, H. G.
Palmer Pty., Ltd., was the
largest retailer of electrical
appliances in the southern
hemisphere. It was at this
stage that the group set-out to
“Dig that crazy hole, man!”
raise the £2 million or there-
abouts on deposits in order
to assist in the merchandising
and stocking of TV. Mr. Palmer
had already deduced that the
manufacturers would be unable
to extend normal trading-credit
in order to market the new (and
high-priced) article, and so the
group met this problem more
than half-way.
Both before and after the
introduction of a high gearing
of borrowed money to share-
capital the H. G. Palmer group
has been able to show a steep
rate of profit-earning. The
ratio to ord. capital went as
high as 62 p.c. in 1953-54. But
last term’s record net profit
(after pref. divs.) represented
74.3 p.c. on ord. capital as it
stood at the close of accounts:
Consolidated Figures.
Uividends. Re-
June, Profit. „- —Ord.* N serves.t
£ £ £
1950.. 18,688 10 p.c. = 1,366 5,037
Tax underprovided, £1094.. 3,943
1951.. 31,317 10 p.c. = 9,629 25,631
1952.. 31.729 10 „ ~17,738 39,622
1953.. 71,755 10 ~',,17,738 93,639
1954. .100,676 10 „ ~17,738 176,576
1955. .101,536 10 „ ~ 23,640 254,473
1956.. 96,170 10 „ ~28,988 321,655
Assets revalued, £335,789. . 657,445
1957. .131,318 10 p.c. =28,988 759,774
Res. capitalised, £199,219.- 560,555
* Includes dividends on pref. shares,
now converted to 10 p.c. p.a. t Subject
to intangibles, £390,6§2 at 30/6/’57.
The consolidated profits was
shown after providing £25,788
for depreciation (up £9082) and
£70,206 for taxation (up £9049),
and at £131,318 was £35,148
higher than the preceding year’s
figure. After paying the prefs.
their £13,050 and 10 p.c.
(£15,938) on the ords., there
was £102,330 left for reserves,
Last year’s profit was arrived
at after writing-off £5209
brokerage paid in raising fixed
deposits and £15,616 of adver-
tising in respect of the same
operation.
During the year assets were
revalued by £335,789 ; this
amount was added to reserves,
making the total lay-by at June
30 last £759,774, but subject to
£326,868 of goodwill on con-
solidation and £63,814 of estab-
lishment charges, etc.
Following the revaluation of
assets last term, a five-for-four
bonus-issue was made to
ord. shareholders (calling for
£199,219), and the div.-rate on
the pref. shares was lifted to an
all-round 10 p.c.
Paid capital is now £538,594
in 1,434,375 ord. shares of ss.
each and 180,000 10 p.c. prefs.
of £1 each. Total shareholders’
funds, subject to the value of
goodwill on consolidation, etc.,
were around £1,100,000 at last
balance-day, and that should
have been added-to somewhat
by profit-retentions since. An
all-round 10 p.c. on capital (ord.
and pref.) will henceforth call
for £53,860, against a total
div. of £28,988 in 1956-57.
Although the co.’s ord.
shares have stood at well over
par for several .years, and in
1957 touched 18s. 3d. (ss. units),
the H. G. Palmer group has
preferred a high gearing of
borrowed money to the raising
of fresh capital. In seeking
fixed-deposit money in 1956,


For the EASTER BRIDE
what better gift for that once-
in-a-lifetime occasion when a girl
already feels she has everything she
wants? What better gift when one
is not really certain what is wanted
or needed? What better gift when
'a girl is stepping into a new life filled
with promise and hope?
What better gift than
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
. Issued by the Bank of New South Wales
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5807C
Mr. Palmer mentioned that
“while interest - rates.... are
very liberal, on investigation it
will be seen that they are less
costly than the dividend the co.
has maintained.”
This is true. The maximum
rate offered was 10 p.c. (the
same as the ord. div.), and all
interest paid is allowable to
the co. as a deduction for
income-tax, whereas divs. are
paid from profits which have
borne tax at 7s. in the £.
Continued success of the
H. G. Palmer enterprise will
depend considerably upon its
ability to gather an increasing
amount of profitable business
in the competitive electrical
trade.
So far it has been spectacu-
larly successful. It has its net of
retail stores around Sydney
well spread, and it seems to
have gathered its full share of
sales of TV-sets during the
height of the recent boom.
“Consumer-durables” in the
electrical trade are having
varying fortunes, and all that
can be said with certainty in
the case of H. G. Palmer is
that it has coped with a high
degree of success in the ebb-
and-flow of trading conditions
over the past eight years, includ-
ing the setback of 1951-52.
Much depends, also, on the
continued employment at
remunerative rates of pay of
those who owe the co. money
on t.-p. So far unemployment
in N.S.W. has not reached
disturbing proportions.
Following last year’s bonus-
issue the sharemarket is paying
9s. 6d. for the ss. ord. stock-
units. On a 10 p.c. div. basis
the immediate yield offering is
5{ p.c.
Bank of England Rate,
6 p.c.
A FTER just over five months
at the emergency rate of
7 p.c. (jumped from 5 p.c. on
September 19, 1957, to check
the flood of money then leav-
ing Britain), the U.K. balance-
of - payments position has
improved sufficiently to
encourage the Bank of England
board to reduce the rate to
6 p.c., operative from March
20.
Although this will almost
generally result in a similar cut
in the short-term borrowing-
rate in Britain, it will still mean
dear money to those relying on
bank-overdraft finance —prob-
ably 7 p.c. or p.c. So that
the remarks by a U.K. Treasury
spokesman to the effect that
“although inflationary pres-
sures are moderating, the reduc-
tion in the bank-rate does not
imply any general relaxation in
monetary policy,” seems hardly
necessary. By Australian
standards, U.K. overdraft-
rates are still at a penalty level
—at least 2 p.c. above the
average Australian 0.-d. rate.
The 6 p.c. discount-rate in
London will still be attractive
to many foreign financiers ; the
United States discount-rate is
mostly 2'| p.c.
The previous 7 p.c. rate has
affected Australia in several
ways, making it more expensive
for Bradford to buy wool on
credit* and forcing Australian
banking authorities to charge
a “disincentive rate” of interest
to stop overseas buyers from
using Australia’s cheaper credit
in order to finance their com-
mitments.
Throughout the world there
is a tendency now to make
money cheaper in order to
check a tendency towards
unemployment.
Integrated Steelworks for
Whyalla
[From “Old Opencut”]
TN building open - hearth
A furnaces and steel-rolling
mills at Whyalla (S.A.), B.H.P.
is to spend £3O million ; and,
though Sir Thomas Playford
probably hasn’t yet realised it,
the State’s obligations will
tally-up to at least a similar
sum.
Any scheme to develop steel-
production at Whyalla
demands close investigation, as
the proposition can be
challenged on economic
grounds.
Prior to 1939 B.H.P. had
strongly resisted pressure to
expand Whyalla beyond its
established function of an ore-
loading port.
One company, quite
soundly, based its objection on
the recognised economic
premise that to establish an
integrated steelworks success-
fully there must exist in situ
two of the three main
ingredients of ore, coal and
water.
Whyalla had the ore, 16 to
32 miles inland, but nothing
else of value. Though the
place-name means “water,”
potable liquid wasn’t available.
For years the works and
town lived on condensed water
augmented at rare intervals
with muddy supplies from a
couple of earth dams. The
annual rainfall is lOin. —some
years.
The Newcastle site had all
the advantages—markets, com-
munications, coal, water and
an established community.
Under these circumstances it
was a proposition to ship ore
from Whyalla.
With the possible excep-
tion of market-accessibility,
Whyalla now has all the basic
essentials for successful
development.
The ore is contained in the
Middleback Ranges. A heavy-
duty 3ft. 6in.-gauge railway
connects Iron Knob (32 miles)
and Iron Baron (18 miles) with
the seaboard. Steam-traction
has been replaced with diesel-
electric locos. With some eas-
ing of gradients, trains made-
up of 75-ton double-hopper
trucks to a 4000-ton capacity
provide cheap ore-transporta-
tion.
The stone now being
quarried averages 65 p.c. iron,
Recent probes have revealed
millions of tons of 30 p.c. ore
in the form of jaspilite under-
lying the richer deposits. A
pilot-plant is now working-out
the economics of this low-
grade ore.
In addition, there are huge
deposits of ore-carrying man-
ganese in the right proportion
tp turn-out a high-class steel,
This ore has been in demand


Earn seven pounds
from every hundred
.
Interest paid quarterly -free of exchange. Cumulative stock
carrying 6Vi% compounded on yearly rests with currencies of
5 to 15 years. Prospectus available from all branches of The
Commercial Bank of Australia Limited, Members of the Stock
Exchange and offices of the Company.
GENERAL CREDITS LTD.
offers first mortgage
debenture stock
Directors: Eric Hughes
(Chairman), V. H. Stanley-
Low (Managing), J. M.
Ford, J. F. Hughes, F. G.
Menzies, C.8.E., H. F. Clarke,
Bankers for the Issue:
The Commercial Bank of
Australia Limited.
BROKERS:
J. B. WERE & SON
TH* » * Pro*peetas
tt> for i
anti 4oe» not fcfctttfihrt* stj s«v*f*tiob . -}} :
feberrti#* #<*<& begirt. . : ..
9239
for overseas plants for many
years. U.K. bought heavily as
War II loomed. It became
inevitable that, to avoid ship-
ping mullock, a decision to
erect blast-furnaces to produce
pig-iron should be forced on
B.H.P. An installation with an
annual capacity of 250,000 tons
went in as a joint defence-
measure.
The State contribution was
the 230-mile Morgan-Whyalla
pipeline to reticulate Murray
River water, and housing.
Since the war the blast-
furnace has not operated con-
tinuously for reasons of
economic efficiency. In the
same period steel-production
at Newcastle and Kembla has
trebled.
A £A3O-million expenditure
could be expected to provide
an integrated installation with
an end-product annual capacity
of a million tons —one-third
of B.H.P.’s present production.
Coke is a poor sea-carrier.
Coke-ovens will be a necessity
at Whyalla. On a million-tons
steel - production, two-million
tons of coal will need to be
shipped from eastern coalports
each year.
The State or the Common-
wealth will be up for a 47-mile
standard-gauge railway from
Pt. Augusta. This presents
some problems at present, as
the area is under Common-
wealth rail-control.
Playford is to put it to the
P.M. to do the job—a worth-
while defence-measure anyway.
The efficient S.A. Housing
trust is to build 1500 houses,
plus schools, and other com-
munity amenities.
The pipeline will be dupli-
cated with increased capacity.
This will be the biggest item on
the State bill, and the supply
will undeniably be costly water
for the company. The town
is to be supplied at 2s. 6d. per
1000 gals.
The co.’s steam power-
station, with boilers equipped
to burn coal, oil or blast-
furnace gas, will be extended
and linked with S.A.’s big Pt.
Augusta (Leigh Creek Coal)
installation on a give-and-take
basis.
The first site selected for a
trading-port to meet the New-
castle demand was at Backy
Bay, on the western reaches of
Spencer Gulf, north of Pt.
Lowly. This bay is the only
protected harbor on the upper
gulf with deep water close
inshore.
A line had been surveyed
and some earthworks formed
when the Government of the
day said no. The deep-water
site was to be reserved for
future requirements. Inciden-
tally, the future use has recently
been decided ; any nuclear-
fission or "-fusion power-
station will be built there.
Hummock Hill, as Whyalla
was then named, some 15 miles
s.-w., was the only alternative
site, and certainly not a good
one. It forced the erection of
a half-mile jetty to carry the
1000-tons-an-hour conveyor.
Ships tie-up at a short T-
head and moor to dolphins.
The final-discharge gantry is
fixed, and the ships have to
move frequently by winching
from hold to hold during load-
ing.
One berth requires frequent
dredging, and is fully exposed
to s.-w. gales.
However, immense tonnages
have been handled through tne
years without trouble. From
security- and decentralising
angles the new development is
a worthwhile proposition of
immense potential to the State
and the Commonwealth in
general.
Clyde and Westeels
OHAREMARKET reaction to
the offer by Clyde
Engineering Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
to take-over all the issued
ordinary capital and unsecured-
note options of Westeels
Industries, Ltd., was to mark-
up both stocks appreciably.
Normally it is only the taken-
over co. that shows much
market-increment.
"Clyde is offering four ss.
ords. for every three Westeels
10s. shares, plus 4s. cash for
each Westeels share. Option-
holders are offered 3s. 6d. cash
for each option.
Before the announcement
Clyde £1 shares stood at 405.,
but later rose to 425. 3d.
Westeels ords. went from 14s.
tb 18s.
Westeels has a paid-up capi-
tal of £476,719 in 713,439 10s.
ords., 10,000 7 p.c. prefs. of
£1 each and 110,000 5 p.c. prefs.
of £1 each. There are also
225,000 options to take-up one
Westeels ord. for each option
at par in 1961.
Clyde Industries, Ltd., has a
paid capital of £1,981,918 in £1
shares. These are to be con-
verted into ss. stock-units.
Westeels are distributors of
a wide range of steels and other
metal and engineering products.
E. J. Hazell is chairman, and
A. R. Booth is managing-
director. There are several sub-
sidiary companies, some of
which are manufacturers of
special engineering products,
including valves, boilers and
automotive equipment. Two
subsidiaries are engaged in
manufacturing chemicals.
The Westeels business should
marry.well with Clyde, which
now seems definitely to be
going places in the engineer-
ing field, with recent emphasis
on automotive engineering and
repetition-work. It has been put
down for a share in the Aus-
tralian Volkswagen enterprise,
but the exact proportion has
not yet been disclosed.


"it 4 eo\e fkoka &cmuca/*
N> WIIA )r down/
* LOOK. - MOt>sfcN A'^r/ h
*WATtH -TMAT Cat/"
N> WMAT AOOUT PRINCES tonight?
SUCH SIDESHOWS!


Largest Australian Coy
Conducting all classes of
FIRE;
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80*82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Eugene Istomin
In his two Sydney recitals the
American pianist manifested
his clear-cut ideas on the
composition of his instrument’s
name ; and nowhere in his pro-
grammes was greater emphasis
laid on it than in Beethoven’s
“Waldstein” Sonata. His pianos
were indeed soft, and he some-
times shaded-off the tempo to
give them the greater effect,
while his fortes were punched
out with crispness and verve.
He thus gained the maximum
especially in the first
movement, in which he achieved
the right effect of headlong
dramatic drive, with lowering
storm-clouds always present.
The brief slow section was
poetry in sound; the lovely
allegretto a stream of lyricism,
with the filigree-work in the
variations on the theme which
wind-up the work beautifully
wrought.
Another fine piece of
Beethoven was the little Sonata
Op. 78, the master’s only
composition in the key of F
Major. Istomin made it an
essay in charming intimacy, its
urbanity and serene classicism
shaped with deftly-flowing
fingers.
There were also the A Major
Sonata of Haydn, graceful and
bubbling with good humor;
Bach’s E Minor Toccata, a
fascinating study in musical
mathematics given a light shot
of drama;,the “Abegg” Vari-
ations of Schumann, executed
with crisp fluency; two
Schubert Impromptus, played
as if they really were the
extemporaneous outpourings
of genius; \ Chopin’s great
Ballade in F Minor and his
A Flat Polonaise, their thunder-
ing bravura passages hammered
out with exciting conviction;
and the exquisite little D Major
Rondo by Mozart.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Pirates of Penzance”
Once again there cast-up on
Cornwall’s rock-bound coast —
and a very nice effect gained
by the Firm’s scenic artists,
too—the old band of tender-
hearted pirates who shed
unashamed tears over orphans,
even elderly ones; the flock
of Johnops who fade discreetly
into the shadows when “the
foeman bares his steel”; as
nifty a bunch of daughters and
wards as any major-general
ever sired or warded ; and all
the tuneful doings associated
with the paradox of a 21-year-
old apprentice - pirate who,
going by his 29th-of-February
birthdays, should still be in
very short pants.
At Sydney Royal on Friday
night Grahame Clifford made
it clear—even when singing at
around 150 words per —that,
to be a military top-brass, not
only authoritative knowledge
on all things vegetable, animal
and military, but such subjects
as cuneiform, hypotenuse and
differential calculus are pre-
requisite to success. Clifford’s
five-foot-nothing of brilliant
martial apparel contrasted
comically with the towering,
fearsome Pirate King of Eric
Thornton, who bashed the
welkin with bursts of bellowing
sardonic laughter and generally
gave the impression that he had
just spat out the bones and
belt-buckles of his victims.
“Poor Wandering One,” that
grand old war-horse on which
generations of Mabels have
pranced to vocal victory, found
Roslyn Dunbar in most
ingratiating voice, leaping the
coloratura stretches without
seeming effort and landing
(except on two occasions) fair
in the middle of the note.
Sergeant-cop Richard Wat-
son arrested nothing but appre-
ciative attention when he
beefed out his “Tarantara”
and “When a Felon” numbers,
assisted by as strange an assort-
ment of flatfoots this side of
Lands’/ End.
The best choral work of the
season so far went into the big
finale to the first act, “Oh,
Men of Dark and Dismal
Fate,” the shifting of tonal
weight being' beautifully
controlled, with fortissimo
climaxes of great virility.
<s+ ♦♦♦
“The Vigil”
What can one say about this
play by Ladislav Fodor which,
through the medium of a
modern courtroom and with
the audience sitting as jury,
weighs the pros and cons of
Christ’s resurrection?
What, indeed, can one say,
except that Sydney Genesians
the other night in their church-
raftered theatre presented a
flawless case for the defence?
It could hardly be other-
wise ; dramatically, a pity.
The central argument is
whether the gardener stole
Christ’s body from the tomb:
if he’s proved guilty the Ascen-
sion story must fall to earth.
A gallery of witnesses are
called-forth: modern men and
women, though many have
both Biblical names and
personalities.
And so, to the sullen drum-
ming of rain outside/the first
witness is called: a Guard,
played by John Sheehy. Fodor
transmutes the Roman to
Yank: yeah, he’d been guard-
ing the tomb. Pretty chilly
night. Kinda creepy out there
around twelve. Yeah, the gar-
dener had given him a jug of
wine. He guessed he’d fallen
asleep . . . .The obvious con-
clusion, pounced on by the
Prosecutor, is that the gar-
dener had drugged the wine.
And so on, and so on. Here
is Joseph of Arimathea, in full
20th-century glory—“l was
attracted to Jesus through his
stand on the income-tax ques-
tion”; and, a little later on,
Pontius Pilate, wearing a
drape-suit and iron expression,
takes the chair. Thaddeus, a
professor (“studied angel-
ology”); Sadoc, a spiv-type
private-eye; Mr. Pinchas, a
shopkeeper; the bowed and
bearded gardener (the defend-
ant); and Simon Peter, the
fisherman, to mention but a
few, were all admirably cast.
Three portraits ran sputnik-
circles around the others.
Martyn Corbett’s Saul was
arresting and entirely credible:
in the first instance, fiery and
chin-thrusting as the Christian-
hater, in the second, bounding
into the court, a new convert,
to help turn the tables by his
testimony. Anthony Ward’s
Prosecutor stood out in clean
and vicious relief -r- not an
enviable part, since he’s ver-
bally pitted against the rest
of the cast.
But Mary Magdalen, other-
wise Barbara Maxwell!
Powerful, sincere, turning the
Prosecutor into a snarling
beast, and stinging the eyes
of even the most hardened
members of the jury.
A. W.
❖ *> ♦♦♦
“The Desperate Hours”
Out in the Sydney suburb of
Sydenham, in that oasis of the
arts the Pocket Playhouse,
tupked away in a back-street
lined with accordioned tene-
ments, one encountered a first-
rate performance of Joseph
Hayes’s “The Desperate Hours”
the theatre’s best effort
to date.
It’s a suspense drama —three
escaped convicts bail-up the
Hilliards, a typical American
suburban family (Mr. and Mrs.
H., Cindy, aged 20, and
Ralphie, a youngster) waiting
there for a female accomplice to
bring some cash. Action
alternates between the sheriff's
office (Bard, the sheriff’s deputy,
has an ancient grudge against
Glen Griffin, leader of the
convicts) and the Hilliard
household.
But it goes deeper than mere
cops-’n’-robbers. Cindy is
knocking around with a young
blade, Chuck Wright, of whom
her father disapproves; and
Ralphie feels he doesn’t under-
stand his dad. Next thing they
know the convicts have posses-
sion of the house—Glen, the
leader; Hank, his young
brother ; and Robish, a brain-
less ham-fisted parcel of surli-
ness.
The Hilliards were extremely
well presented by Patti Asange
(Mrs. H.), George McLaren
(Mr. H.) with Valerie Askew
and Kent Mayo as Cindy and
Ralphie. Viewed as a whole, the
escaped convicts came over
nearly as well: Ronald Owen,
as Glen, and Donald Smith, as
Hank, filled their blustering
positions nicely, and John
Robson made a brilliant brute
of Robish. Of the sheriff’s
deputies, Peter Potok was
strong as Bard.
A. W.


Wants
Wanted to purchase Vols. 1-6
(1929-1934) Australian Quarterly.
AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTE OF
POLITICAL SCIENCE,
34-48 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY. Tel.: BW 9544.
Missing Friend
McCALLUM: RICE: HOLDEN.—
MARY McCALLUM; widow of late
FARQUHAR DONALD ROSS Mc-
CALLUM and believed to have been
daughter of HENRY RICE and
MATILDA AUSTRALASIA RICE (born
HOLDEN), died near Sydney, ‘New
South Wales, in 19.34. Persons,--being
(or able to give particulars of) re-
lations of said MARY McCALLUM,
deceased, are requested kindly to write
to VINDIN & LITTLEJOHN,"SoIicitors,
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Part of estate of said MARY
CALLUM goes to nearest relations
according to statute.
t&y Appointment
A to H. M. King
JFrederik IX
By Appointment.
to the late
King George VI
By Appointment
to H. M. King
Gustav VI Adolf
By Appointment
to H. M. th«
Oueen of th*
Nether landjf*
l’ ; ' .CJ<*».i»nwm*
C.U4 Ucb» MW*
‘v..
w.v
| CHERRY I
*&!• rmJliJt *co«»ii*2
Cherry
fleering
jSince ISIS Denmork*
liqueur delight.
for your after
dinner enjoymenf
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—SWIFT & MOORE PTY. LTD.
Artbursts
American Art
Anybody expecting the
excitement of the French
exhibition of a year or two ago
in the American exhibition now
at the Sydney Gallery will be
disappointed: it is a very
modest little show of four
painters from Seattle and four
New York sculptors and all
the more modest in that the
Seattle painters, though modern
enough, do not shout —in fact,
they hardly use color at all.
In theory such small exhibi-
tions, allowing one group to be
assimilated and each painter to
be represented by an adequate
sample of his work, are
excellent. In practice, it
depends whether the artists
have enough to say to be worth
sending round the world.
On the whole the paipters,
in their quiet way, are interest-
ing enough, though all reflect
the European movements of the
past 50 years and none has
any distinctively American
flavor.
Guy Anderson has a blue
lioness which would look well
on a dinner-plate, and various
stylised figures out of Cubism.
Kenneth Callahan, the most
attractive of the group because
he is the only painter using
color, has various dramatic
semi-abstracts of storms,
mountains and stars, with the
general effect of a follower
of Hieronymus
Mark Tobey has graceful and
unusally crowded scratchings
resembling lace, soap-bubbles
and Klee ; and Morris Graves,
though his fruit and vegetables
in attractive green and white
have come from Braque, has
taken his “Bird Depressed with
the Length of Winter” from a.
non-European source direct
from the Japanese art which is
said to have had a considerable
influence in Seattle.
The sculptors with their age-
ing bits of wire and gilded
triangles standing on their toes
are all stereotyped and of very
little individual 'force, though
Rhys Caparn’s ‘Bird Walking
by the Sea” is a lively little
excursion into Henry Moore’s
territory and Ezio Martinelli’s
“Demiurge” is not a bad
example of those things full
of spikes and claws that grab
and stab. you from all direc-
tions.
❖ ❖ ❖
At King’s Cross
It is always nice to see bull-
dozers tearing-up the lawns on
the last of the stately old homes
of King’s Cross, and a florist
saying that he will telegraph
flowers in all the languages of
the world except Esperanto, and
yet another new Italian
restaurant full of beautiful
bottles of wine ; but what to
say about the paintings of
Edward Herman and the sculp-
tures of Antonio Rodrigues at
the Terry Clune galleries this
commentator knows not.
Primitive in drawing and
lurid in color, the paintings of
Japanese and Indonesian scenes
look like the pictures one used
to see on velvet in secondhand-
shops around the back of the
Tivoli; and the sculptures,
chiefly in wood, look like all
other pin-headed contemporary
sculptures. And yet in time,
perhaps, both the artists will be,
in another sense of the term, on
velvet.
❖ ❖ ♦>
The Queen’s Pictures
The Queen lias agreed to
make available on permanent
loan to Australia a painting of
the opening of the first Federal
Parliament by the late King
George V. In announcing the
loan Mr. Menzies said he was
most grateful to Her Majesty
for lending the painting. One
of Mr. Menzies s, chief interests
after the cares oJ; office is paint-
ing and he has had, and has,
many friends amongst Aus-
tralian artists. He would earn
their gratitude if he suggested
to Her Majesty that she follow-
up her gracious gesture by
making available on temporary
loan some of the other master-
pieces of painting-she has in
her collection.
At Windsor Castle and other
royal houses are some of the
finest collections of Old
Masters outside American
museums. They include paint-
ings by Velasquez, Titian,
Rembrandt, Van Dyck and
Holbein, which in terms of
money are wellnigh priceless,
and it might be objected that
these should not be subjected
to the hazards of a sea or air
journey across the Equator . . .
in answer to this it might be
said that science in these days
has made the risk practically
negligible. Melbourne’s Van
Dyck, valued today at
£160,000, has been loaned to
U.S. and the Rembrandt to
Holland and both have
returned safely.
Tom Roberts did a good job,
but, as he would have said
himself, the significance of his
picture was nine-tenths historic
and about one-tenth artistic. If
the Windsor collection came to
Australia it would add to the
Royal prestige as much as the
Queen Mother’s visit.
F. S.
❖ ❖ *
Adelaide' “Advertiser’s”
annual open-air show on the
banks of the Torrens has
become an admirable institu-
tion. About 600 paintings and
pieces of sculpture are dis-
played, and maybe sold (lots
are), free of commission. At
least 100,000 people come to
look at the works of amateurs,
primitive or expert, and a few
professionals. Styles vary
wildly, from pale watercolors
suitable for doctor’s waiting-
rooms to heavily-loaded can-
vases, of one of which 1 heard
an awestruck spectator murmur,
“It must have cost a fortune in
paint.” Subjects are more
restricted, landscapes, sea-
scapes and flowers providing
the most uncomplaining
models. Amid the puritanism
of much contemporary art it is
good to see several pictures that
unashamedly tell a story, some-
times too twee, like “Kitty
stealing the Crayfish,”, but
sometimes delightful, like an oil
of four grinning fishermen
standing on the beach beside
their catch. It is almost impos-
sible to select names, but Juta
Puust tosses figures into land-
scapes with abandon, and
Douglas Roberts presents a
landscape alone, with great
distinction.
Geoffrey Dutton.
♦> ♦♦♦ ❖
In their latest show at the
Athenaeum, Melbourne’s Inde-
pendents give no very clear
indication of what they mean


Would you like good
whisky better?
+0 y* 'f \
£
BEIXS
fycotch Wl
•00% SCOTCH WHISK-j*
OISTIUEO AND SLSND*®
‘ jIM ICOTIANO
|IN SCOTIAN*' *,
D| STILLERS WTH S COTt*
eciAL RES*
& r ,m ***suiiau*'* o r' j
v *-~~— ,ito °“<* °v'i°,.
11
If whisky is really good,
made in Scotland—can one
ask for anything more ? We
think you can—that it
should bear the name
‘Bell’s’. We are independent
distillers. Independent to
go on making the finest
whisky our long experience
can produce. Buy a bottle
of Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
Taste it critically and see if
it is not Scotch Whisky at
its spirited best.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELLS
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur Belldb Sons Ltd.,Distillers,
Perth, Scotland. Established 1825
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO HERBERT BRAY HARTLEY late
of Sydney in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that AUSTRAL
RUBY HARTLEY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 443 of 1958 on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without ijjst cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 9th day of June 1958 and obtain,
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. ADRIAN TWIGG & CO.,
Solicitors, of/ No. 160 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN FREDERICK TEALE.—
TAKE NOTICE that GLORIA EILEEN
DAWN TEALE has filed a Petition for
Divorce in Suit No. 3227 of 1957 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 26th May 1958 and obtain a
copy of the (Petition without charge
from J. C. RICKARD, SYMONDS &
CO., Solicitors, of 67 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Exercising Federal Jurisdiction in
Divorce
TO FREDERICK WALTER FISHER of
Footscrav Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE
that KATHLEEN VIVIAN FISHER has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1634
of 1957 under the Federal Matrimonial
Causes Act 1945-55 Part 111 A on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 9th day of May 1958 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. A. J. McLACH-
LAN, HOAIIE, MANN & CO., Solicitors,
of 6 Wynyard Street, Sidney.—J.
DOUGHAN, 'Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RICHARD FRANK McGRAW late
of Croydon Park.—-TAKE NOTICE that
PEARL ELIZABETH McGRAW has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 607
of 1958 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 4th day of June 1958
and obtain a-copy of the Petition with-
out charge from E. G. SAYEGH, Soli-
citor, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO AVILLIAM PERCIVAL JOHNS
formerly of Hay Street East Perth
Western Australia. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife DAWN JOAN JOHNS has
commenced proceedings against you in
the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia for Divorce on the ground of
separation for a continuous period of
not less than five years immediately
preceding the commencement of the
action there being no reasonable likeli-
hood of cohabitation being resumed. If
you desire to defend such proceedings
you must file your defence at the
Central Office of the Supreme Court at
Perth within 40 clear days from the
date of this publication. In default of
your so doing the case may proceed
and the Court will pronounce judgment
and make orders against you in your
absence. Dated this 14th day of March,
1958. —G: J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
CHARLES R. HOPKINS, Solicitor,
Perth.
by their collective title. Most
of them are still resolutely
forging along, applying the
same formulae to landscape,
still-life and portrait that they
learnt in their student days, and
those who appear to be
attempting something different
have slipped into some modern
fashion. Stuart Maxwell has
two pictures entitled “Vertical”
and “Horizontal Composition.”
In one a nude woman is
depicted reclining, and in the
other probably the same model
is depicted standing. The
characteristic they have in
common is that they are equally
crudely painted. Max Middle-
ton has a well-studied pump-
kin and Ronald Kirk a forceful
woman sewing. Phyl Water-
house’s “The Haunting
Woman” is cleverly painted,
but wrongly titled. Judging by
the blind look in her eyes the
girl is haunted, rather than
haunting. There is a fragile
charm in the silvery tone of
Desmond Norman’s “Sea-
scape,” “Cafe Window” and
“Port Melbourne.”
FilmS
“The Pride & the Passion”
This is the film-version of
C. S. Forester’s The Gun, the
story of a determined British
officer and a fanatical guerrilla-
leader who, during the Penin-
sular War in 1810, and with the
aid of hundreds of peasants,
manhandle a gigantic piece of
artillery across half of Spain,
outwitting and dodging
Napoleon’s troops which are
spread out to block their pro-
gress, so that the vital fort of
Avila may be breached.
Chief interest in the film lies
in the manner in which the
great gun, with its lOft.-high
wheels, is hauled up and down
mountains and across rivers.
The weakness in the climax is
the assumption that an experi-
enced French fort-commander
would elect to keep his seasoned
troops inside the fort and be
bombarded when all that stood
between him and the gun
1600yds. away was an undis-
ciplined, poorly-armed rabble.
Cary Grant is impressive as
stiff-necked officer, and
Frank Sinatra as the guerrilla-
leader is fair enough. Sophia
Loren appears to be in the cast
solely because of her bust-line.
At Sydney Regent.
-if*
“The Ten Commandments’*
Cecil B. De Mille’s blown-
up remake of the life of Moses
is first and foremost a spectacle
—undoubtedly a good one,
particularly in such sequences
as the crossing of the Red Sea,
the rolling-back of the waters
to allow the fleeing Hebrews
to cross safely, and the cata-
clysmic swamping of the pur-
suing war-chariots of the venge-
ful Rameses.
Generally, however, vulgarity
is triumphant, particularly in
the worship and orgy of the
Golden Calf by Moses’ mal-
content followers at the foot of
the Mount of Sinai.
Charlton Heston develops
with no little conviction from
a Virile, youthful and rather
impatient Moses of his
Egyptian-soldier days to the
bearded patriarch of the Exodus
and the Revelation; Yul
Brynner is a suitably aggressive
and plotting Rameses; the
tough little gangster of the
Bowery lurks too unmistak-
ably behind Edward G. Robin-
son’s wily Governor ; and Sir
Cedric, Hardwicke lends an
easy dignity to the role of the
ageing Pharoah.
Anne Baxter’s dramatic
talents are wasted on the role
of Nefertiri, the Pharoah’s
daughter, with which the script-
writers have taken a pyramidful
of liberties ; Yvonne de Carlo,
as the gentle wife of Moses, is
much better cast.
Mark Twain had a Yankee
at the Court of King Arthur,
but judging by the accents of
soldiers, slaves, etc., in this
opus, Gyppoland was packed
with ’em a few thousand years
ago.
At Sydney Prince Edward.
♦♦♦ *X* +J*
“My Man Godfrey”
This remake of a lightweight
comedy, which William Powell
and Carole Lombard made
donkeys’ years ago—about an
Oxford-accented hobo who
lands a job as butler to the
neurotic family of a browned-
off tycoon, and then proceeds
to teach them manners and
winds-up marrying the daughter
—gets a fairly presentable air-
ing, with David Niven as the
smooth gent.’s-gent. who sticks
strictly to domestic protocol
until his emotions are involved.
June Allyson is tiptop as the
madcap daughter, and Marthe
Hyer, as her brainless, flutter-
ing Mama, and Robert Keith,
as the sire who regards his
family as freak members of the
animal world, contribute neat
studies.


A MESSAGE TO EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEES . . .
lyp
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
* DIRECTORS:
THR HON.
T. A. J. PLAYFAIR.
M.L.C., chairman;
SIR EDWARD R. KNOX.
VICB-OHAIRM-AN ;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT;
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
JOHN DARLING;
A. G. ARMYTAGE,
MANAGING DIRECTOR.
W. S. MATTHEWS.
MANAGER.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited) can be of assistance to you
YOU may find that you have been appointed as Executor
and Trustee of a Will without any knowledge of the
fact until the death-of the Will-maker.
Before embarking on your onerous duties (or even after you
have started them), it may pay you to have an interview
with Perpetual Trustee Co. Ltd., with a view to transferring
your responsibilities to the Company. This can be quite
simply arranged, and you will be immediately freed from
the irksome tasks which faced you.
Full information on the subject will be freely given on
application. Why not telephone 80377 and make an
appointment for the purpose? A Senior Officer will always
be available to interview you. If you prefer, ask that a
copy of the Company’s help-
ful booklet, “Your Executor
and Trustee,” be posted free
to you.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others, Administrator, etc.
88-89 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY OFFICES AT ORANGE is TAMWORTH
PEBPETCAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY
(CANBERRA) LTD,
INDUSTRY HOUSE
rational oibouix
CANBERRA
LOCAL DIRECTORS IN ADDI-
TION TO THOSE DIRECTORS
MENTIONED AT THB LEFT :
WARREN D. MCDONALD.
TICE-CHAIRMAN
B. 0. McFARLANE, 0.M.0.
NEVILLE C. MtLSON
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Marcus Clark & Co., Ltd.
no doubt preceded
U the board’s double-barrelled action
last term in presenting consolidated
accounts for the “Big Store” for the first
time in its 56-year-long public career
and in writing-up the parent’s freeholds
to V.-G. valuation.
No bonus-issue is presaged by this
move, remarks cautious chairman R. C.
Clark—rather unnecessarily since the
earning-rate on stockholders’ funds (con-
solidated figures) now looks very peaked,
especially following last term’s reduced
showing, having fallen from 5.1 p.c. in
1956 to 2.9 p.c. for the financial year
ended August 3 last. b
Headquarters of Marcus Clark and
Co., draper, home-furnisher, etc., is in
Sydney’s Railway Square, but the parent
also operates branch-stores at N.S.W.
provincial centres Newcastle, Dubbo and
Wollongong. Amongst its subsidiaries
are Bon Marche, Ltd., a neighboring
draper in Broadway, Sydney, in which it
owns the entire £125,000 ord. capital, and
Miller Anderson, Ltd., in Adelaide’s
Hindley Street, drapers, tailors, outfitters
and importers, some of whose £221,000
of ords. is held by the public, as is the
£BO,OOO pref. capital.
Other offshoots are Hobsons Pty.,
North Sydney retailer, which last year
commenced “extensive” building opera-
tions, and a long-established bedding-
manufacturer, Wilga Pty., founded by
the late H. Marcus Clark early in the
century. The group as a whole draws
its clientele from the lower-income
brackets.
Latest accounts show that consolidated
net trading profit slipped from
£119.362 to £90,6 12 in the course of the
year, after providing £39,864 for depre-
ciation and £79,281 (down £17,323) for
taxation and deducting outside share-
holders’ interests (dividends and retained
profits), £39,124: '
Parent Only.
t —Dividends—
Prefs. Ords. To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. 6 & 65 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1949 . . 73,758 37,360 24,296 12,102 153,943
Capital profit, £56,760.. .. .. 210,703
Shareholdings written-up, £25,228 .. 235,931
1960 .. 80,041 37,360 24,296 18,385 254,316
Capital profit, £85,457 .. . , 289,7 i 3
7 p.c.
1951 .. 91,051 37,360 28,346 25,345 315,118
Capital profit, £45,702 .. 360,820
1952 . . 65,968 37,360 28,346 62 360,882
8 p.c. j
1953 . . 91,838 37,360 32,395 22,083 382,96 a
Capital profit, £9240 .. .. .. 392,204
10 p.c.
1954 . . 105,451 37,360 40,494 27,597 419,802
Capital profit, £8945 .. . . _ ~ 428,747
10 p.c.
1955 .. 117,769 37,360 40,494 39,915 468,662
Parent and Subsidiaries.
10 p.c.
1956 ... 119,362 37,360 55.679 26,593 1,128,107
Assets revalued, £698,083 . . . . 1,826,190
Capital profit, .. .. 1,800,171
Tax overprovided, <£11,034 .. .. 1,877,205
Unexplained addition, £14,552 .. 1,891,757
9 p.c.
1957 .. 90,612 f 37,360 54,667 1,890,342_
* Subject to intangibles, £128,633 at Aug. 3, 1957.
t Includes figures of one subsidiary (unnamed) for
13 months.
The trading contraction was, however,
more than compensated by a capital
profit of £39,981 on the realisation.of two
redundant properties at
N.S.W., and Dubbo; also £11,034 was
brought to light from accumulated tax
ever provisions.
On the two years’ consolidated
p. and 1. figures available, the earning-
rate on average ordinary capital fell from
14.7 p.c. in 1956 to 8.8 p.c. last year.
Calculated from the parent’s accounts
only, rates since 1952 have been 7.1 p.c.
(1952), 13.4, 16.8, 19.8, 11.9, 8.5 -p.c.
(1957).
The ord. div. was dropped from 10 p.c.
to 9 p.c,, and ord. and pref. distributions
called for £1415 more than the year’s
profit.
A complexity of causes contributed to
the generally disappointing results, but
Marcus Clark’s long-term problems seem
to stem from the ill-favored location of
the main store, which, besides being well
removed from the real commercial axis
of downtown Svdnev. has also to contend
with up-and-coming suburban retailers,
steadily siphoning customer-support away
from the heart of the metropolis. Some
counter-force is exercised by personalised
contact with customers through collector-
salesmen, for Marcus Clark does an
extensive t.-p. business.
Overriding, if transient, factors were
the higher sales-tax imposed by the
Little Budget of 1956, the general credit-
squeeze, and the lag in homebuilding,
which was reflected in reduced sales of
durable goods, while matters weren’t
improved by an exceptionally mild
Sydney winter, with its adverse effect
upon softgoods turnover. The Wollon-
gong division, undergoing a major trans-
formation, operated well below its
average level, but the “new look” store
has since been reopened with more than
dquble its original floor-space of 25,000
sq. ft., and good results are looked-for
from this fast-growing district.
More persistent in their effects are
the higher rates, the State land-tax and
the 1 p.c. hire-purchase levy, which have
also borne heavily on Miller Anderson
and Bon Marche. These associates lost
relatively less ground than the parent,
despite import-restrictions and finer
profit-margins.'
The more-informative balance-sheet
shows that the directorate is not given
to over-optimism:
Parent
Only. Consolidated Figures,
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref £597,848 £597,848 £597,848
Ord. .... .. 404,938 607,407 607,407
Reserves .. . . 468,662 1,128,107 1,890,342
Outside interests . -—■ 433,965 435,788
Mortgage .. .. 535,000 743,000 933,500
Overdraft .. ... 319,707 566.102 618.769
Creditors ... t .. 476,926* 508,921 532,204
Tax provision' 165,643 132,385
Final divs. . . 38,927 49,050 49,050
£2,842,008 £4,800,043 £5,797,293
Freeholds . . 695,252 1,697,463 2,502,138
Plant, fixtures,
leaseholds .. 155,976 290,356 378,721
Shares other cos... 2,667 3,814 2,806
Shares subsidy . . 324,580
Advances to subsids. 4,375
Stock .. .. 637,648 1,101,999 1,163,112
Debtors 937,225 1,543,799 1,583,009
Cash .. .. 11,907 23,686 19,038
Inter-co. balances 10,372 19,836
Intangibles . . 72,378 128,554 123,633
£2,842,008 £4,800,043 £5,797,293
* Includes tax and other provisions.
On the assets side, stock. £1.163.112 (up


£61,113) is valued at the lower of cost
or market, less reserves totalling
£273,000; and book-debts, £1,583,009
(up £39,210) have been discounted by a
£371,962 reserve, virtually an insurance
against debtor-unemployment and addi-
tional to normal provisions.
Of the increase in freeholds, now
£2,502,138 (up £804,675), £697,789 came
from the assets-revaluation previously
mentioned in connection with the parent’s
accounts and another £86,061 was added
through the Wollongong improvements,
to which was also due £75,096 of the
increase in plant, fixtures, etc., up
£88,365 to £378,721.
A one-for-two par issue in October,
1955, which involved 404,938 ords., has
been the only capital-movement since
before the war. Additional funds for
the extension-programmes came by way
of a £190,500 increase in the mortgage
and the increased stocks held were
financed by a further overdraft of
£52,667, bringing this item to £618,769.
Creditors, etc., also rose by £23,283.
Outsiders have a large claim on total
assets, figuring for £2,701,696.
The sharema.rket prices the 10s. stock-
units at 11s., which would make the
yield £8 3s. Bd. on a 9 p.c. div. basis
or £9 Is. lOd. if the 10 p.c. div. is
resumed. The 6 p.c. and p.c. cumu-
lative prefs. last sold for 16s. 6d. and
16s. 4d. respectively, with yields of 7.3 p.c.
and 8 p.c. Net tangible cover on the
ords. has now jumped to 395. for each
stock unit.
W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd.
WHILE admitting that the introduction
of television services has “adversely
affected sales of large musical instru-
ments,” W. H. Paling and Co., Ltd;,
somewhat surprisingly, has shown little
inclination to hop aboard the TV
bandwagon.
The co. handles a number of TV-
receivers, “but it does not propose to
take-on substantial commitments” in this
field, claiming that “the circumstances
under which sets are at present sold do
not give adequate return for the energies
expended.”
In support of its policy, which would
appear to involve a continued emphasis
on the sale of musical instruments,
phonograph-records, sheet-music, etc.,
rather than a greater interest in domestic
appliances, the board points to trends in
U.K. and U.S.A. where, it states, “tele-
vision made a serious impact on the sales
of musical instruments, but in due course
took its rightful place in the social life of
these countries and, in fact, like radio,
actually stimulated interest in music and
the basic need for self-expression ....
There is every indication that the same
pattern will follow in Australia.”
No doubt the board also remembers
the £30,000 loss incurred on the retail
distribution of refrigerators in the 1955
term, when a sharp contraction in
demand forced the co. to slash profit-
margins and write-down stocks.
Meanwhile, hopes for a recovery in
earnings appear to centre around the
development of the i George and Ash
Street (Sydney) freeholds. Plans have
been completed for conversion of the
George Street store into an arcade of 12
income-producing shops leading to the
main entrance of the renovated Ash
Street building, where additional show-
room space has been made available and
used, largely, for the display of pianos.
Musical instruments have been the
principle stock-in-trade of the business
for over 100 years (Palings long associa-
tion with the musical life of Sydney dates
back to the arrival in Australia of
William Paling in 1853), but, with the
advent of sound-films and radios, the
range" of merchandise carried was
extended to include vacuum-cleaners,
radios, • sewing-machines, refrigerators
and other domestic appliances. There are
branches in Brisbane, Bankstown
(Sydney) and 10 N.S.W. and Queensland
country centres.
Earnings bounded along in the years
immediately following the 1939-45 war,
reaching a peak in 1951, when £155,749
of bonus-scrip was handed-out and
103,845 new £1 ords. offered to share-
holders at par. With the issue of scrip
as consideration for the share-capital in
G. J. Grice, Ltd. (a Brisbane-based
competitor), paid capital jumped by
£337,442, to £726,763, between 1949 and
1951.
Import-restrictions and a general
weakening in demand sent profits
tumbling in 1952, and disappointing
results have been exhibited in subsequent
years, net earnings shrinking to not much
more than 1 p.c. on paid capital during
the year ended October 31 last. The div.-
rate averaged 6.5 p.c. over the six years
to 1956, no div. being paid from last
term’s earnings.
Country branches are reported to have
traded “satisfactorily” last year, and a
poor showing by the Sydney stores would
seem to have been mainly responsible for
a “significant drop in turnover” and the
collapse of net earnings—down £28,061
at £9807: *
Parent Co.
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
x, £ £ £
To bad debts provision, £6757 .. 198,663
Revaluation assets, £170.653 .. ..' 369,316
Reserves capitalised, £155,749 .. 213,567
1951.. 90,709 10 p.c. = 60,434 30,275 243,842
To bad debts provision, £IO,OOO .. 233,842
1952.. 43,814 5 p.c. = 36,338 7,476 241,318
W. H. Paling and Subsidiaries.
Added on consolidation, £28,833 .. 270,151
1953.. 53.618 6 p.c. = 43,606 10,012 280,163
Intangibles written off, £363 ~ 279,800
Unexplained reduction, £123 .. 279,677
1954.. 56,791 7 p.c. = 50,873 5,818 285,495
1955.. 40,348 5 „ ~36,338 4,010 289,305
1956.. 37.868 5 „ „ 36,338 1,530 291,035
1957.. 9,807 9,807 300,842
Once again domestic refrigerators proved
a slow-moving line, while the attractions
of television depressed sales of pianos
and other large musical instruments in the
Sydney, Wollongong and Newcastle
areas. Representing 1.3 p.c. on share-
capital, as against 5.2, 5.6 and 7.8 p.c. in
the three years back-to 1954, the net
profit was calculated after allowing
£9484 (up £1215) for depreciation and an
unspecified amount for taxation.
Stocks have increased by £46,576
since the end of the 1955 term, book-
debts slipping by £147,599 over the same
period (new hire-purchase agreements,
written in Queensland, are now financed
by an outside organisation, this change
contributing to the fall), but the overall
financial structure remains sound:
Consolidated Figures.
o 1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £726,763 £726,763 £726,763
Reserves .. .. 289,505 291,035 300,842
Overdraft .. ... 175,930 130,788 187,416
Creditors, etc. ..
Tax provision .. 25,893 28,558 10,809
Final div. .. 36,338 36,338
£1,559,665 £1,534,425 £1,506,707
Freeholds . . .. 531,015 534,136 553,249
Plant, etc. .. 62,436 75,354 80,576
Shares, debentures 5,089 11.289 11,289
Stocks .. 477,574 504,695 524,150
Debtors . . .. 481,119 4016,263 333,520
Cash, etc ' 2,432 2,688 3,923
£1,559,665 £1,534,425 £1,506,707
A branch was opened at Rockhampton
(Q.) recently and another, at Goulburn
(N.S.W.), will soon commence trading,
last term’s expenditure on freeholds
(revalued in 1951) and plant adding-up to
approximately £33,800. The bank helped
to finance this outlay by advancing a
further £56,628, 'but funds released by the
new hire-purchase arrangements in
Queensland, and an improvement in sales
and earnings early in the current term,
have enabled a “considerable” reduction
in the overdraft since balance-date.
On present indications, a speedy
recovery of earning-power seems unlikely,
-the f.-p. £1 ords., supported by net
tangible assets of 28s. 3d., selling at 11s.
Samuel Allen & Sons, Ltd.
versatile North Queensland hotel-
keeper and merchant, Samuel Allen
and Sons, returned a slightly higher profit
last term —the fourth advance in four
years—but, this time the gain was mainly
due to a smaller provision for taxation.
Keen competition and increased
operating - expenses reduced pre - tax
earnings by £8750.
The co. owns a string of hotels, most
of which are in the coastal strip between
Proserpine and Cairns or at the mining
centre of Mt. Isa, and is active as a wine,
spirit and general merchant. The major
trading subsidiaries are engaged in the
retail of hardware, farm-machinery,
electrical appliances, sporting-goods, etc.,
one offshoot holding the franchise for
Ford motor-vehicles in Townsville (the
parent co.’s headquarters) and Mt. Isa.
Assisted by an expanding local
economy, Samuel Allen and Sons has
made good progress in the post-war
years, earnings responding to the intro-
duction of new share- and loan-capital
and the purchase or formation of
additional subsidiaries.
The last issue to shareholders was in
1954, when 211,875 £1 ords. were offered
to shareholders at par on a one-for-four
basis, but, to date, 10s. a share remains
unpaid, adequate funds being obtained
by the acceptance of money on deposit.
The £953,438 paid capital includes
£142,856 in 6 p.c. participating prefs.,
which share with the ords. in any surplus
after return of capital. Div.-rates, pref.
and ord., have been steady at 8 p.c.
since 1950.
All trading subsidiaries operated
profitably last term (to June 30, 1957),
and group-turnover appears to have


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearlv Subscription .. 22'6
36in.
, '
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTKRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
A WIDE RANGE
OF LIFE ASSURANCE
& PERSONAL ACCIDENT
& SICKNESS POLICIES
to meet the needs of all sections
of Australia’s expanding population
AUSTRALIAN
= METROPOLITAN LIFE =
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Qld., 1895)
HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS: E. W. Robinson, Esq.
(Chairman), Col. R. S. Goward, C.8.E.,
P. H. Phillips, Esq., T. Keith Smith, Esq.,
C. W. Rothe, Esq., S. J. Gandon, Esq.
Gen. Manager: W. J. Cooksey, B.Sc., F.F.A.
improved ; but, with a drop in
the ratio of gross profit to sales
and a £54,953 increase in
expenses (£619,688), net profit
edged forward by only £IBO9, to
£116,299, after providing
£74,668 (down £10,559) for
taxation and £23,644 (up
£8041) for depreciation:
Parent and Subsidiaries,
, Dividends ——,
Pref Re-
Jne., Profit. 6 p.c. r -^Ord.—serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £
Share premiums, £4784 ~ 415,595
Add on consolidation,
£29,014 472,435
Goodwill written-off, £3070. , 469,365
Loss realisation subsidiary,
£IO9B 468,267
*53.. 73,179 11,428 8 = 56,372 473,646
Unexp.’d addition, £9860.. 483,506
'64.. 100,904 11,428 8 = 56,372 516,610
Profit sale assets, £11,461.. 528,071
Unexpl’d addition, £lO6 . . 528,177
’55..104,395 11,428 8 = 58,844 562,300
Profit sale assets, £5623 . . 567,923
Unexpl’d reduction, £2217.. 565,706
•56..114,490 11,428 8 = 61,847 606,921
Profit sale assets, £33,874 . . 640,795
’57..116,299 11,428 8 = 64,847 680,819
* Subject to intangibles, £5842 at
30/6/’57.
A further £33,874 came in as
capital-profit on the sale of
a number of hotel-freeholds
(“with the trade retained to the
co. under long-term leasehold
tenures”).
The £116,299 represented
12.1 p.c. on paid capital (pref.
and ord.), compared with 12.5
p.c. on a lower average capital
in the preceding term and 11.9,
11.9 and 8.6 n.c. back to 1953.
Although the net investment
in land, freeholds and plant
rose by £124,523 (progress-
payments on a new hotel at
Ayr and the remodelling of
other hotel properties account-
ing for most of the increase),
the co. was able to reduce total
outside liabilities by £25,453
over the year, with the aid of
undistributed profits and a
£63,096 cut in stocks. The
board hopes to achieve a
further reduction in stocks and
trade-debtors in the current
term:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1956. 1957.
Pref. .. i. £112,856 £142,856
Ord. , . „ 810,582 810,582
Reserves ti 606,921 680,819
Mortgage 262,799 282,055
Overdraft 528,955 417,380
sssr } • lists;
Tax provision ~ 102,027 88,090
Final divs. , , 38,138 38,138
£2,994,765 £3,043,210
I,and, building’s. , 1,004,257 1,104,273
Plant, etc. .. 119,595 144,102
Govt, bonds, etc. 16,654 6,751
Stocks . . . . 929,645 866,549
Mortgages ~ - 63,102
Debtors, etc. .. 917,263 850,235
Cash . . . . 1,507 2,356
Goodwill .. 5,844 5,842
£2,994,765 £3,043,210
Shown as a separate item in the
balance-sheet for the first time,
money received on deposit has
been more than enough to
finance the group’s hire-
purchase transactions, funds
surplus to the needs of the h.-p.
offshoot being used in the
development of other sections
of the business. Advances
(£63,102 at balance-date) were
made to purchasers of the
hotel properties sold during the
year.
The prosperity of areas
served by the group is largely
dependent on the state of the
local sugar and mining
industries, and, as forecast by
the board, the slump in base-
metal prices has been reflected
by trading results in the first
half of the current term.
However,' the immediate out-
look for the North Queensland
sugar industry is favorable, and
the full year's profit is expected
to cover divs. and permit
“reasonable” additions to
reserves.
An interim div., unchanged
at 4 p.c., will go out next month
to shareholders on the books
on April 1.
At 245. 3d., cum div., the f.-p.
£1 ords. would give an effective
return of £6 16s. 6d. p.c. from
an 8 p.c. distribution, the
contribs., paid to 10s., selling at
12s. sd. Including uncalled
capital, net tangible asset
backing at June 30 last was
325. 9d.
Cellulose Australia, Ltd.
A LMOST 33 p.c. of the net
profit won by Cellulose
Australia, Ltd., over the last
five years has been ploughea-
back into the business, a lot
of it in the form of new plant.
The resultant increase in out-
put and turnover showed-up
in last term’s accounts as a
13 p.c. increase in net earnings.
Cellulose Australia manu-
factures paperboard from
chemical and groundwood
pulps and waste-paper pulp at
a mill near Millicent (S.A.),
where full-scale production
was first commenced in 1943,
four years after formation of
the co.
Plans for a substantial
increase in production were
announced in 1954 and the
annual output of board, then
about 8000 tons, is expected to
reach 16,000 tons in 1959, over
£550,000 going into new plant
and premises in the three
years to June 30 last.
The expansion programme
has been financed, largely, by
retained earnings, but share-
holders were asked to take-iip
another 190,000 £1 ords. early
last year, a final call on the
new scrip, last October, lifting
paid capital to £696,875, of
which £126,875 carries a fixed
5 p.c.
Last term’s increase in the
ord. div-rate, from 9 p.c. to
10 p.c., took the average rate
for the past six years to 8.6
p.c., a careful div.-policy pro-
moting the rapid growth of
reserves. Net earnings for the
year covered the pref. div. and
33 p.c. on average ord. capital,
the ratio over the five preced-
ing years averaging 29 p.c.
A significant development
last term was the decision to
join with Australian Paper
Manufacturers, Ltd., in the
formation of a co. (Apcel,
Ltd.) to manufacture pulp
and paper from S.A. soft-
woods. Tissue-paper will be
the first product turned-out by
the new co., which will
establish a mill at Millicent
not far from the existing
Cellulose mill. (The Tariff
Board recently recommended
an increase in the duty payable
on certain imported tissue-
papers.)
The initial capital - cost,
spread over the next four or
five years, is expected to be
in the vicinity of £1,500,000,
of which £1,000,000 will be
subscribed, in equal propom
tions, by the two shareholders,
as required. The remaining
£500,000 will be advanced by
the South Australian
Government.
The Cellulose board expects
to find part of the necessary
capital from “internal funds”
and, judging by the current
earning-rate and the healthy
state of the co.’s finances,
shareholders may not be called-
on to provide any more than


Invest in a well-established
Manufacturing Company
FERRIS INDUSTRIES
LIMITED
(Paid-up Capital £247,500)
MAIN TRADING'* SUBSIDIARY
FERRIS BROS. PTY. LTD.
will be pleased to accept
SHORT TERM DEPOSITS
7
/O
par annum for YEARS
o/
/r
/O per annum for
0/
/O P er annum for
YEAR
MONTHS
Interest Payable
2 Yearly
Additional working capi-
tal is required to finance
the manufacture of New
Ferris Television and Car
Radio Receivers, Channel
Master Television Aerials
and component parts.
For further details and form of application phone,
write or send coupon.
To Secretary, Ferris Industries Ltd.,
752 Pittwater Road, Brookvale, N.S.W. XF0221.
Please send me details of Short Term Deposits
NAME I
ADDRESS
a small proportion of the total
amount required.
At June 30 last, when little
over half of the new capital
had been gathered-in, current
assets (£541,663) exceeded
current liabilities by £333,454,
the surplus increasing by
£100,468 over the term:
Paid capital—• 1956. 1957.
Pref £126,875 £126,875
Ord 380,000 476,014
Reserves .. 466,757 554,227
Replacements, etc. 94,494 94,536
Overdraft .. 132,622 40,623
Creditors .. 58,817 53,884
Tax provision .. 68,396 84,880
Final divs. .. 22,172 28,822
£1,350,133 £1,459,861
Land, buildings,
plant .. .. 835,138 918,198
Stock .... .. 310,474 293,209
Debtors .. .. 181,038 242,127
Cash, etc. .. 23,483 6,327
£1,350,133 £1,459,861
The £96,014 received from
shareholders, with retained
earnings, a £17,265 cut in
stocks and £17,156 from cash-
holdings, covered the year’s
capital outlay (a net £83,060)
an extra £61,089 in book-
debts and a £91,999 reduction
in the overdraft.
Reserves, including the pro-
vision for “replacement and
other contingencies,”
amounted to £648,763 at bal-
ance-date, or only £49,112
short of paid capital as it now
stands. Excluding the replace-
ment provision, but including
capital since called-up, the £1
ords. had a net tangible asset
backing of 365. 9d. when the
accounts were ruled-off.
Last term’s higher turnover
(approximately £1,000,000)
rendered the absorption of
increased operating costs a
less painful process than it
might have been in other
circumstances, and, after set-
ting aside larger provisions for
taxation (up £16,000 at
£84,000) and depreciation (up
£13,107 at £38,317), the board
was able to write net profit
£16,373 stronger at £138,675:
Dividends— s Re-
Jne., Profit. Pref. , Ord. N serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £
5 p.c.
’54..120,753 6344 81 = 32,284 299,263
’55..126,279 6344 9 = 34,200 384,998
’56..122,302 6344 9 = 34,800 466,756
Share-issue expenses, £4OIO 462.746
'57..138,675 6344 10 = 40,850 554,227
After deducting the pref. div.,
earnings were sufficient to
cover a 10 p.c. div. on the
present ord. capital with
£75,331 to spare.
Production and earnings
have continued to climb in the
first half of the current term,
and, if costs can be kept in
check, the investment in Apcel,
Ltd., and the steadily increas-
ing demand for paper and
board should give the co. an
even greater scope for profit-
making. However, with the
need for funds to finance the
new venture as well as the
co.’s own expansion plans, an
early improvement in the div.-
rate seems unlikely.
A 5 p.c. interim div. will be
sent out on the first of next
month, the scrip at 445., ex-
div., returning £4 10s. lid.
from a 10 p.c. distribution.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd.
SYDNEY’S Hotel Metropole
has long enjoyed the
patronage of many country
visitors, and the board attri-
butes a small slip in earnings
over the six months to
December 31 to the less favor-
able conditions experienced by
primary-producers last year, as
well as to the dislocation
caused to normal services by
structural alterations to the
hotel-property.
A reliable profit-winner,
Hotel Metropole, Ltd., will pay
an unchanged 5 p.c. interim
div. at the end of this month.
The final distribution has been
at the rate of 1\ p.c. in each
of the last three terms.
A small decrease in the per-
centage of occupancy during
the year to June 30 last was
more than offset by an increase
in the average apartment-
revenue per guest, and,
although the co. had to find
more than £13,000 to meet the
State land-tax imposed during
the year and higher municipal
rates, the net profit claimed by
the board was £2693 stronger
at £45,813. However, as the
provision for taxation (up
£2OOO at £31,750) was calcu-
lated on the rates applying
before the last Federal Budget,
the actual improvement in
earnings was in excess of
£4000:
Net Re-
June, Profit. v Dividends— serves.*
£ £ £
1954.. 36.696 111 p.c. = 32,761 132,258
To renewals reserve, £SOOO 127,258
1955.. 47.779 121 p.c. = 37,802 137,235
Long-service provision, £4500 132,735
1956.. 43.120 121 p.c. = 37,801 138,054
1957.. 45.813 121 .. = 37,801 146,066
* Excludes renewals reserve, £15,000,
30/6/’57.
The £45,813 written after
allowing £6OOO (up £1000) for
depreciation, represented a
return of 15.1 p.c. on share-
capital, compared with 14.2,
15.8 and 12.1 p.c. back to 1954.
Extensive renovations and
alterations to the 400-room
freehold have been carried-out
in recent years, the current
term seeing the complete
reconstruction of the Phillip
Street section of the original
building at a cost of £60,000.
Well-shod financially, the co.
has financed this work from
internal funds (the last call on
shareholders was back in 1928),
and, with £202,463 in cash and
bonds at the end of last term,
the current level of capital-
expenditure is unlikely to strain
the financial structure:
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £302,412 £302,412
Reserves .. .. 138,054 146,066
Renewals reserve .. 15,000 15,000
Creditors .. .. 27,063 34,920
Tax provision .. 29,976 32,278
Final div. .. 22,681 22,681
£535,186 £553,357
Fixed assets '.. 325,541 331,335
stoc k •• .. 8,204 8,790
Debtors ~ .. 7,594 10, 769
Govt, securities, cash 193,847 202,463
£535,186 £553,357
Bonus-issues, of which the last
was a one-for-five affair in
1954, have provided £167,402
of the £302,412 paid capital.
Less dependent on bar-trade
than many city hotels, the
Metropole will find the effects
of drought and the fall in
wool-prices more troublesome
in the current term than any
competition from licensed
clubs.
Book-values at June 30 last
gave the f.-p. £1 ords. a net
tangible backing of 295. Bd.,
the market pricing the scrip at
435, for a yield of £5 16s. 3d.
from a 124 p.c. div.


ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
'THE fact that we are in the
middle of a period of
readjustment and struggle
(against inflation and instability
of sterling) doesn’t mean that
times are dull. Politically the
atmosphere is highly charged,
with feelings sensitive and
tempers high.
While it was expected that
the first report of the “three
wise men” (Lord Cohen’s
Council on Prices, Productivity
and Incomes) would infuriate
the trade-unions, the tenor of
their remarks turned-out to be
unfortunate. For, though the
truth of their main fact-finding
and pronouncement is incon-
trovertible, the manner of
expression is so coldly detached
as to seem callous and tight-
lipped.
Involuntarily and unmean-
ingly, they may easily have
alienated the great mass of
ordinary people whose con-
fidence they might have won.
Moreover, there are criticisms
in financial circles that the
council’s opinions are too
narrow, especially over mone-
tary stringency and other defla-
tionary measures; and the
problem of resuming economic
expansion without letting loose
another bout of inflation has
not been tackled. It remains to
be seen what effect the report
will have upon the arbitration
tribunals; but, since the
council argues the case strongly
for stopping, not merely
moderating, inflation, the
influence should be only for
the good.
Not unnaturally, the Rent
Act bids fair to become a
major political stamping-
ground. The reason for the
present touchiness and agitation
is a simple one: notices for
evictions next October have to
be served by April 1. It is a
complex subject and a necessary
reform which the Government
has put through with great
courage. Some distress is in-
evitable, despite the Minister
of Housing’s assiduous con-
cern to make the transition as
painless as possible.
Incidental ly, the big
property-companies have come
to mutually satisfactory agree-
ments with a high proportion
(up to 90 p.c.) of their tenants.
It is the smaller, private land-
lords who are upsetting the
Government. Most of them
want to evict their tenants and
sell. The reason? Because they
fear a repeal of the Rent Act
and the reintroduction of con-
trolled rents if a Labor Govern-
ment is returned. This is the
same kind of political uncer-
tainty as that which bedevils
the steel industry: because of
possible re-nationalisation the
industry is unable to obtain
the capital it needs for develop-
ment.
Jack-in-the-box
The paradox that the
Socialists may put the Con-
servatives in at the next general
election is still conceivable.
While the Government has
many anxieties (other than
those attendant on running the
country), it is the Labor party
which is beset with worry.
Oddly enough, by-election pro-
spects loom high on the list.
The truth is that support for
Labor has been falfing-off but,
because of the much bigger
drop in the Conservative vote,
it has not been noticed. There
are four by-elections pending,
and not one of them gives cause
for enthusiasm.
This unease is not a little
due to the so-called “Ginger
Group,” the ragged band of
unswerving legionaries who
have popped-up again behind a
new slogan, “Victory for
Socialism.”
At one time they rallied
behind Nye Bevan. He's now
looked upon as a renegade to
the orthodoxy of the Centre and
has even repudiated their
pacifism. So lan Mikardo, who
has nothing like the same
dynamism, has taken over. And
the Labor leaders, a shade pre-
maturely, perhaps, have taken
fright at the prospect of that
hated canker, the “party within
a party.” „
Certainly there seems to be
no suspicion of overt con-
spiracy or subversion. All that
seems to have happened is a
resurgence of that irrepressible
emotion, old-fashioned Socialist
revivalism. What more natural
than that it should coalesce into
a campaign against the H-
bomb—a matter which, tradi-
tionally, is an affair of con-
science. But the leaders don’t
see it in that pure white light.
Without delicate but firm
handling, emotional Socialism
might so encompass profes-
sional Socialism as to spoil its
electoral chances for another
five years.
Old England
The fortnight’s theatre-
going comprises a classic, a
musical adaptation of a Vic-
torian comedy and a war play
—an odd mixture with nothing
in common but the scene,
England.
At the Old Vic, the Britain
of “King Lear” is stark, wild
and turbulent in Leslie Hurry’s
setting, but he provides a round
platform, rather like a section
from a giantscrew, which has
some stylistic effect in centring
and highlighting the action.
By imaginative grouping and
careful emphasis, Douglas
Seale’s production gives point
and shape to this untheatre-
worthy play. Paul Rogers
wears the traditional Father
Time make-up as Lear ; rightly
eschewing character-acting, he
is yet unable to avoid seeming
what he is—a young man
behind an old mask. But, in
extenuation, the part and,
indeed, the play—are patently
unactable. Only Paul Dane-
man’s plangent, demented Fool
lingers in the nfemory for its
eloquence and poesy.
“School” (Princess Theatre)
is based on Tom Robertson’s
play about young ladies (being
“finished”) and young gentle-
men (being captivated) in which
Bella, the Cinderella-like pupil-
teacher, becomes the wife of
the prize masher, Lord Beaufoy,
and, with surprising coinci-
dence, the long-lost grand-
daughter of his wealthy uncle.
If the superior “Caste”
failed to accommodate itself to
song-and-dance, “School” was,
by stronger reasoning, a vain
experiment. It is a sad failure,
for, though it is good “period”
and well conceived, the coy
humor and carefully prepared
situations are embarrassingly
unfunny and, in modern
parlance, prissy. The lyrics
(Redmond Phillips), the music
(Christopher Whelen), and the
performances are adequate but
undistinguished ; to carry this
best-forgotten insipidity they
would need to be inspired.
Lastly, a well-deserved
success. The highest com-
mendation for “Touch It Light”
(Strand Theatre) is to say that
plays if about all-male units
in military isolation are not
your first choice (they’re cer-
tainly not mine), this comedy
will surprise you by its fresh-
ness, warmth and essential
truth. It has affinities with both
“Journey’s End” and “Seagulls
Over Sorrento,” but is lighter
than the one and more natural
than the other. The author,
Robert Sharrow, is a Sheffield
company - secretary who
obviously knows his material
well; with finely shaded dia-
logue and characterisation he
has effortlessly transcribed his
fifteen-year-old participation
into loose yet organic dramatic
terms.
There is something very
touching about these men, with
their bickering, scrounging and
reluctant esprit-de-corps.' Per-
haps it is that the ghost of
Fred Karno has never walked
so persistently as here, for
there isn’t a really good soldier
among them. The climax where,
not for the first time, they’re
caught unprepared, unready
and unwilling, is enough to
provoke a Brigadier into
apoplexy but, as many an ex-
Service man must admit to his
shame, how very true it rings!
Basil Dean’s production
teems with understanding and
the acting is of high quality,
notably the lance-jack of Victor
Maddern, a searchlight site-
commander uneasy in both
power -of - command and
thwarted ambition ; and Jon
Pertwee’s , eccentric officer,
though a shade overdrawn, is
a delightful comic souvenir of
another England.


Color of Death
By JUDITH WRIGHT
THAT year Isa had found
a place to make a secret
garden.
The paddocks were
silver-brown with drought, thin
feathery grasses crackled under-
foot where she walked with
hard brown feet, and along the
shrunken creek cattle had
trampled down the banks into
rough, hoof-marked clay. No
place there for a garden. It
was a small leak in the house
pipeline through the calf-
paddock that Isa found. A
growth of sassafras hid it from
the calves, and on the other
side the fence-wires protected
it from the seeking hungry
cows.
The blackbutt clump beyond
the yard was the place where
the wild violets grew. The
year before, with spring rain
to help them, they had flowered
everywhere under the dark
trees. Their veined spear-leaves
stood up as though the
brownish stems were full of
pride and sap ; the buds grew
tall and the violets came out
strange and big, their color
foreign to the unsurprising
landscape.
Isa and Benjy had picked
bunches of them and stuck
them in jam - jars, with
straggling yellow button-daisies
and white everlastings. Now,
this drought-year with Benjy
gone to boarding-school, Isa
remembered the smell of
violets as part of spring. With-
out wild violets, spring
couldn’t come ; but the drought
had dwarfed and withered the
plants and no buds were grow-
ing.
With a worn old metal spoon,
sharp as a blade, Isa sat at the
foot of a blackbutt and coaxed
out a dry violet-plant, roots
powdery with clay. She carried
it in a tin of water down to the
sassafras-clump, and planted it
where the leak dripped rust-
colored on to the grass. Then
she made a picket-fence of
sassafras-twigs over it. It had
a tiny bud, scarcely raised from
the crown, limp and unhopeful.
Something was needed to
complete the planting. Isa tried
to think of words, a spell of
some kind. Mick Shanahan, the
pensioner odd-job man and
gardener, tramping down the
beans in the vegetable-garden,
said “There ye are now, snug
as a bug in a rug.”
Isa repeated the formula,
made a vague gesture that was
meant to be the sign of the
cross that Mick made on special
occasions. The westerly gale
snapped her hair across her
eyes and stung her lips as she
went home over the calf-
paddock, and the dried stems of
grass rolled before it and
piled up like flood-drift against
the rabbit-netting fences, soft
as a bed to jump into ; but
when you lay in it the stems
caught in your woollen jumper
and scratched lightly until they
were pulled out
TN the east the sky was night-
blue ; the western sky was
pink with the frost-pink of
cold weather; and as she
plucked out the brittle stems of
grass the white moon was
puffed up from behind a narrow'
rim of blue hills. A long, cold
winter.
“There you are,” said her
mother softly from the bed.
Lately she had a new look,
strained like a running hare,
her skin too tight for her large
starting eyes. “And where’s the
big kitchen-tablespoon, I’d like
to know? You don’t think
Aunt Et didn’t see you at the
drawer?”
Isa pulled it out of her
pocket and threw it on the
table. Crumbs of dust fell from
it, and her mother exclaimed.
“Spoiling the polish on the
furniture! Wash it, child, and
put it away. And your hair!
You’re as bad as the wind
itself, annoying me all day.
Go and brush it, clean yourself
for tea, wash the spoon I say! ”
The long curtains at the
window came bulging and flick-
ing in on another gust of wind.
“And it’s after sunset! ” cried
Aunt Et, putting down the tray
crossly and tying back the
curtain from where it hung
askew on the corner of the
mirror. “Your tea’s on the
kitchen-table, Isa, and don’t let
the cat in even if she is mewing
round out there.”
“Where are you having your
tea, Aunt Et?” said Isa, not
moving.
“I’ve no time for tea tonight.
Your father will be home by
eight, and I’ll take a mouthful
with him. Eat yours and get to
bed. You’d better take this
spoon with you and do as your
mother tells you.”
Isa ate her bread and milk
by the purring kitchen-stove
that spat red like an angry cat
when the flames reached the
resin in the firewood. The cat
itself lay on her knees, hidden
by the white tablecloth, and
didn’t stir when Aunt Et bustled
back to take off and wash the
plates.
“She never ate a mouthful,”
Aunt Et said over her shoulder
through the steam. “You’d
better have the cutlet yourself,
Isa. Wilful waste makes woeful
want, and I dressed up the
cutlet with a frill and all.”
“What about Dad?” said Isa.
“Oh, there’s plenty for him.”
Isa reached over the table
and took the cutlet from her
mother’s plate. She gnawed the
bone, and on her knees the cat
struggled silently with the meat.
Isa held it there and broke the
meat into pieces for it. It was
warm and comforting to have
something alive on your knees.
“Goo’night, Aunt Et.” She
wrapped the cat in her jumper
and stood up carefully with her
back to her aunt. “I’ll clean
my teeth ; you don’t need to
come out tonight.”
She slipped to the door and
halfway through it, as her aunt
cried, “And what about kissing
me goodnight, I wonder?
Haven't I been looking after
you this three weeks like a
second mother?”
Isa leaned back through the
door, holding the cat out of
sight behind her arm.
“Darling Aunt Et! ” She
made her face into a smile and
with her free hand tossed a
kiss from it. “You’re being
real good, so here you are.”
The door slammed as if with
the wind, and Isa fled along the
veranda and tossed the cat
under her feather-quilt.
“You stink,” she said over
her shoulder to the kitchen-
door.
TTER father came home in the
truck later, as Isa lay
awake watching the moonlight
slide to and fro across the
stone-pine that swung and
hurtled in the wind. He had
taken calves to the sale, and the
smell of manure blew across
to the veranda where Isa lay;
a good smell, like cowyards. Isa
got up, moving the cat from
her feet, and tiptoed across to
the kitchen-window.
Her father was sitting just
inside, his back to her, talking
to an invisible Aunt Et across
the table.
“Rasmussen says there’s no
chance of selling till the drought
breaks. You can see the posi-
tion we’re in. The operation
alone. .
“Tch, tch,” said Aunt Et.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; £ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to "The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
“I’ve got savings, haven’t I? I
wouldn’t see you and Ol in
trouble. I’ll stay on until Ol’s
back and well enough to take
over.”
Their voices went on,
dwarfed and thin in the wind’s
desolate largeness. Isa caught
a word here and there as her
father shifted towards the
warmth with his plate:
“Generosity Security... .
Benjy’s schooling... .Drought
taking Isa....”
But the wind snatched whole
sentences, rolled them past her
ears like the dried feathers of
grass.
She went back on feet as cold
as the moonlight, and caught
the cat against her and pushed
her face into the pillow.
“The operation alone....
Taking Isa....”
She poked out her tongue and
licked the salt-drop from her
cheek as it hung. It tasted like
blood, like the time Benjy had
pushed her off the pony and
broken her front tooth.
After school next day, she
fled home and down to the
sassafras-patch. The violet-
plant was green under the drip,
and she firmed the soil round it
and went back to the house.
“Isa,” said her mother from
the bed. Her staring eyes
looked deep in, questioningly,
anxiously. “Aunt Et’s packing
for us. We’re going to town,
to stay with Gran.”
Isa looked down and pulled
away her hand. “I know why.
Don’t tell me. I know.”
“Oh, Isa.”
Her mother looked at her but
this time Isa’s eyes refused the
glance. The two hung irreso-
lute, side by side ; their hands
touched and withdrew as
though it had been an accident.
“I’ve got a garden,” said Isa
suddenly ; but her mother had
begun speaking at the same
time, something about being
good at Gran’s place. Both of
them stopped and the pause was
like a stumble. Aunt Et came
through the doorway with an
empty suitcase.
“There’s Mick,” said Isa and
slipped past her.
Mick Shanahan was plaiting
her a whip. The whip, the cat,
the violet-plant; her mind
counted those three. The spring
would come, too, but that was
a long way off.
AT Gran’s there was nothing.
The hospital had a long
flight of stone steps where
chewing-gum packets and dead
leaves eddied in the wind, a
two-floor lift that creaked, and
a smell of starch, distemper
and sickness.
Her mother lay straight in the
bed and made sounds as she
breathed. Her father sighed
long sighs and leaned watching
her and holding Isa’s hand. He
was lost in that place. Some-
times he said, clearing his
throat, “Ol,” but the sound
died. __
Isa loafed on Gran’s narrow
porch, watching the boys and
girls go to school and come
back. Sometimes they put out
their tongues and she put out
hers in return, with the sting of
tears in her eyes. The garden
was soot-grey, the beds edged
with concrete.
Isa untied the long grey
ropes of the wistaria-vine from
their supports and tried to plait
them like the whip Mick hadn’t
finished yet. Gran grieved over
them and made her unbraid
them and tie them back. She
ran errands to the poky shops,
chewing the elastic in her un-
accustomed straw hat, forget-
ting to count the change.
It was in the fifth week that
her mother died. Benjy was at
Gran’s, too, having been sent
for from school. In his long,
dark trousers and uniform-
jacket he looked a pale stalk
of a boy, small-faced and un-
familiar. She couldn’t talk to
him.
It was better when at last she
and her father were back in the
truck and going home. Aunt
Et had not been able to come to
the funeral there were the
hens and the calves to look after
at home. Mick had more than
he wanted to do, with the milk-
ing.
■pALE, moon-white, the
paddock-slopes slid past the
truck window, marked with
gully-scars and tottering fences.
Her father, who had sat
silent at the wheel all the way
from the town, suddenly began
to talk. It was not about Isa’s
mother ; it was about himself,
the hard struggle it was, the
way the Government hadn’t
done what it should by the
soldier-settlement, the way there
had never been enough money
to do things right, to fence, to
plough and sow, to buy a
good bull; how he had lain
awake at night and worried
(“You needn’t think it was only
her that cared what happened’’)
—the way his life had come to
a stop.
Isa shrank- against the glass
of the truck-window, counting
the willows on the creek and
seeing how their leaves were
new and candid like drops of
green water flung up in great
fountains. The cat, she thought,
the whip, the violet-plant, and
now the spring.
So that now Isa must help
make it up to him, his loss and
his failure; must help with
the milking, help with the
work, help pay for Benjy’s
school which must go on for
years yet.
“Your mother wanted it, not
me ; and even now, if I took
him away, he’d be useful about
the place. But she wanted it and
I’m not going against her now
she’s dead. Still, if he’s to
stay there it’ll be twice the work.
And you’re to help your Aunt
Ethel as long as she’ll stay, Isa,
and not cheek her with your
sullen ways. Your mother never
thought you no different, but
now you can’t be spoiled any
more. And how we’ll manage
with the drought I dunno.”
Isa looked out of the window,
desperately counting as the
fence-posts slid by—upright on
the ridges, tottering on the flats
and banked with scum and drift
from long - forgotten floods,
hanging to the wires with feet
feeling for the ground, where
they crossed the channels
scoured by long-past water.
Her father’s voice was thin and
bare, like the grassless ridges
where the soil had washed
from the clay and pebbles of the
subsoil. Like the small half-
dead trees that still stood there
with roots exposed, he had no
shelter to give her.
She didn’t eat Aunt Et’s
scones, but slipped away from
the kitchen-table, leaving the
other two sitting there stirring
their tea. From the veranda
she heard their voices answering
each other like nails scraping
iron, like high winds on dead
branches. The cat lay asleep
on the high tank-stand but she
fled down the paddock to the
sassafras-patch.
AT first she thought some-
thing had eaten the violet-
plant, for she could not see it.
Then she found that a bracken-
frond had grown up over it, and
the grass in the watered patch
had hidden it. It was in flower
still—two tall stems held up
their veined petals through the
grass-stems, large as garden-
violets, pale and streaked with
darker purple. A bee Went
butting and fumbling from one
to the other as Isa looked.
She sat down beside it and
saw that two seed-heads were
swelling green on other stems.
Vindictively she pulled them
off and flicked them out into the
grass, too green for the seed
to ripen. There were no more
buds.
She picked the two violets
from the plant and looked at
them, the small golden eyes, the
dark-streaked petals. Large as
they were, they did not look
like garden - flowers, real
flowers; they had in them a
secrecy, a wildness —a know-
ledge of things that did not
happen in gardens, things as
fenceless and unknown as
death.
She pulled down the little
fence of twigs and bent the
young growth of sassafras
aside. Tomorrow her father
was putting the cows in this
paddock. They would see the
green patch and come hungrily
into l the sassafras clump. That
was what she wanted.
The cowbell sounded from
the house, and Aunt Et stood
there on the veranda, peering
for her, as she rang it. Isa
scrambled up and ran, dropping
the violets from her hand.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
A reminder that not only is the work
of Red Cross unceasing but that its
activities are ever-expanding lies in the
official opening (scheduled for Tuesday,
March 25, at 2.30 p.m.) by the Governor,
Lieut.-General Sir Eric Woodward, of a
new wing, which cost £51,000, at the
society’s Lady Gowrie Home at Gordon.
This home provides accommodation for
convalescent ex-servicemen and -women
of two World Wars. The new addition
honors the memory of a woman who was
a foundation-member of the society and
who gave 25 years of devoted service to
its cause. The wing, which will
accommodate 24 men and 17 women, has
recreation-rooms on each of its two floors.
The TV-sets installed in them were
donated by the Woodbum-Evans Head
branch of the R.S.L. and the Five Dock
Red Cross Younger Set.
☆ ☆ ☆
A Sydney girl won the title of House-
wife of the Future, a nationwide quest
for which 70 home-science schools
nominated their top girls. The winner is
Nola van Gelder, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. P. van Gelder, of Peakhurst, who
competed with representatives of the five
other States in Sydney. The girls
had written examinations in cookery,
laundry and home-management, a
personal interview with Dr. Claire
Isbister and Miss Nancy Foskett, finish-
ing with a practical examination in
cookery, laundry and home-management.
It was interesting to note how the
different girls treated the material they
were given for a luncheon for two
women. The main ingredients were lamb-
chops, sheep’s kidney, rashers of bacon,
a pineapple, celery, tomato-juice, tomato-
puree, fresh tomatoes, lemons, six eggs,
peas, small tin of tuna, carrots, potatoes
and onions.
Miss Van Gelder did not use the chops,
but presented a luncheon of tomato-
cocktail ; an appetiser of pineapple, mint
and cherry ; a mixed salad with stuffed
eggs and cheese-balls ; a savory of tuna,
rice, tomato-puree and onions as the
main dish and a lemon-souffle.
Leonie Ward, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. J. Ward, of Maidstone (Vic.), who
was second, prepared a seafood-cocktail
with the tuna, made a mixed grill for
the main dish with stuffed tomatoes and
a French salad, and a delicious sweet of
pineapple, cooked gently with sherry
added to the syrup.
Alex Hocking, from South Australia,
who was third, worked out the food-
values carefully and offered a tuna salad
as the main dish. She is the daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Hocking, of Snow-
town (S.A.). From Brisbane, Margaret
Weeks (who thought Sydney’s weather,
97 degrees that day, “pleasantly warm”)
still catered for the appetite on such a
day by offering a lemon-squash before
her grill and iced-pineapple after it.
Westralia’s representative, blonde Helen
Brearley, who looked very striking at the
party given by the sponsors of the award,
Hills Hoists, at the Wentworth Hotel,
prepared a lemon-souffle to follow her
grill, and 16-year-old Gwenda Gwilliam
from Smithton (Tas.), the “baby” of the
group, showed her skill, particularly with
the pineapple-meringue tart she served as
a sweet.
Mrs. David McGrath, of Coogee, is a
member of the committee of the Mater
Misericordice Hospital Annual Ball, to be
held at the Trocadero on June 11. She
and her husband have recently returned
from Tasmania, where Dr. McGrath
attended the Medical Conference. Photo
by Norton Trevaire.
A feature of the current season of
Gilbert and Sullivan opera at the Royal
is the dressing of both cast and chorus.
Plaintiff Jane Martin’s bridal outfit in
“Trial by Jury” on Friday night was a
lovely creation, and her six attendants,
who so treacherously give comfort to the
heartless defendant, were visions in their
billowy frocks. So, too, the crinoline-
dresses worn by the numerous daughters
and wards of Major-General Stanley in
“The Pirates,” which followed, made
tasteful use of many pastel shades,
achieving a particularly telling effect in
the gyrations during the choruses of the
first act.
# sy v
A small dinner-party was held at
Prince’s on Saturday night to celebrate
the engagement of Patricia Margaret,
second daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C. B.
Midlane, of Roseville, to John Arrow-
smith, only son of Alderman the Rev.
Canon R. M. and Mrs. Arrowsmith, of
Wollstonecraft.
# # #
Next general meeting of the Garden
Club of Australia, of which Mrs. A. M.
Davis is president, will be held at the
Restaurant annexe in David Jones’
Elizabeth Street store on Tuesday, April
1, at 2.30 p.m. The guest-speaker will be
Dr. L. F. Rodriguez, president of the
Chrysanthemum Study Club, and his
subject will be “The simple approach to
Bonsai.” Bonsai, for those who aren’t
au fait with pedigreed “crizzies,” are
dwarf trees. The club’s secretary is Mrs.
M. Spencer (X 82823).
☆ ☆ ☆
The Metropolitan Operetta Society is
to revive an old musicomedy favorite of
the self-igniting celluloid-collar era —
“The Belle of New York.” The season
will commence at the Conservatorium on
Wednesday, April 16, and will continue
until the 24th. The production will be
by Carl Randall (who produced “Annie
Get Your Gun”), and the musical-
director will be Dimo Galiungi. The cast
includes Rosalyn Keane, Robert Tasman-
Smith, Betty Cheal, Wendy de Beyer,
Peter Callow, Terry O’Keefe and Rose-
mary Marriott.
CANBERA
Lady Slim, who is patron of the
Canberra Orchestral Society, attended the
first concert of the 1958 series at the
University College Hall. Her Excellency
wore an elegant full-skirted frock in slate-
grey lace ; she was welcomed by members
of the committee. A large audience
appreciated the performance, which com-
prised works by Mozart (“The Magic
Flute” Overture), Haydn, Johann Strauss,
Rossini and Gustav Holst. Under its new
conductor, Robert Rignold, the orchestra
handled the programme in a satisfying
manner and was called on for several
encores.
☆ ☆ ☆
The German Ambassador, Dr. Walther
Hess, entertained a number of his Aus-
tralian friends to cocktails at the Hotel
Canberra before leaving for London,
where he will join Mrs. Hess. Later in
the year they will go to Mexico, Dr. Hess
as Ambassador.
Dr. Hess received guests in the Hotel
Canberra’s Blue Room and was assisted
by the Counsellor of the Embassy, Dr.
Otto Burchard, and his charming wife.
Among those who said farewell to Dr.
Hess were Sir Arthur Fadden; Mr.
Harold Holt; Sir Allen and Lady
Brown ; Sir Wilfred Kent Hughes ; Sir
Leslie and Lady Melville; Major-
General John Wilton and his wife;
Colonel and Mrs. Frank Hassett; Mr.
and Mrs. Douglas Hyles ; Mr. and Mrs.
A. T. Shakespeare ; and members of the
diplomatic corps.
v # n
While in Canberra on their brief visit,
the Commander-in-Chief Far East
Station, Admiral Sir Gerald Gladstone,
and Lady Gladstone, accompanied by


their daughter, were house-guests of the
High Commissioner for the United King-
dom and Lady Carrington at Canberra
House.
MELBOURNE
The women’s group of the Anti-Cancer
Appeal is right on the job to raise its
quota of the huge amount of money
needed. The Lady Mayoress (Mrs. F. W.
Thomas) heads a committee which plans
to hold a monster card-party in the Town
Hall on May 28. At a meeting, held in
her sitting-room at the Town Hall Mrs.
Thomas wore a beige wool suit, which
featured the new loose-line. Arrange-
ments are being made for 250 tables,
and many attractive prizes have already
been donated. Mrs. John Inkster will
have charge of the cake-stall, Mrs. John
Buchan the sale of sweets, and Mrs. Lance
Reichstein will preside over the sale of
lucky envelopes. At the large meeting
were the Town Clerk’s wife (Mrs. F. H.
Rogan), Mrs. W. K. Burnside, Mrs. R.
Solly, Mrs. Mark Clements (president of
the American Women’s Auxiliary to the
Children’s Hospital) Lady Connelly, Mrs.
C. S. Russell, and Mrs. John Hussey (wife
of the U.S. Air Attache).
☆ ☆ ☆
A new theatre, right in the heart of
Richmond’s shopping-centre, was opened
by National Gallery director Eric West-
brook last week. It is small, seating only
100 people ; but the seats are comfortable
and the decor pleasing. Founder of the
theatre is Mrs. Joy Mudge, and right
there to congratulate her on the successful
opening were her husband and children
Anne and Christopher. After the official
opening James Thurber’s “The Male
Animal” was presented. Producer was
Philip Stainton, remembered for his work
in “Witness for the Prosecution.”
In the first-night audience were actress
Jessie Matthews, who draped a white
ermine coat over her short frock of black
silk jersey; Lady Tait, the short skirt
of whose black silk-taffeta frock featured
a fluted line ; Mrs. Terry Vaughan, wear-
ing a cinnamon pleated-organza coat over
a sheath-frock of matching lace; Mrs.
Aubrey Gibson, in an American-beauty
faille theatre-coat and short frock of
blue chiffon ; and Gertrude Johnson, who
wore a flame-red jacket with a full-length
gown of rose-beige brocade. Mrs. Mudge
wore' a formal gown of black velvet
which had an off-shoulder bodice, whilst
a large bustle-bow highlighted the long,
graceful skirt.
tfr ☆ ☆
Once again Lady Tait is president of
the committee organising the Theatrical
Garden Party which aids the Royal
Women’s Hospital. Musicomedy star
Evie Hayes will declare it open at 3 p.m.
on March 30, and there will be several
stalls, one of which will be staffed by
members of the “Damn Yankees”
company. This will be the third theatrical
garden-party, and, as formerly, it will be
held in the grounds of Tara Hall, Studley
Park Road, Kew. The night concert,
however, will be held in the Kew
Recreation Hall, a little further down
the street. Three of the stars from the
Tivoli will appear, also the Luisillo
Spanish Dancers. Members of the cast
of “Damn Yankees” will perform,
and the Little Theatre will also be repre-
sented. Entrance will be by donation.
A recently-announced engagement is
that of Louise, only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. H. A. Palmer of Toorak; her fiance
is David, only son of Mr. and Mrs. F. N.
Shepherd of Launceston, Tasmania.
Louise, who is wearing a ring composed
of a square-cut emerald with diamond
baguette shoulders, was educated at St.
Catherine’s and is an energetic member
of the Wool Ball committee, which will
hold its White and Gold dinner-dance
at Ciro’s on March 28. David was edu-
cated at Blundell’s School in Devon,
England. The marriage will take place at
St. John’s, Toorak, early next year.
Henry Haskin departed from custom
by showing his attractive new fashions
in the drawing-room of his Toorak home.
The range comprised day-frocks, suits,
dress-and-jacket ensembles and ballerina-
frocks for formal wear. For after-five
wear there was a princess-line allied to
a bell-skirt; harem-skirts were also seen,
also the high-waisted frock, the draped
skirt.
For day-wear in winter he offers a
modified “sack” wearable for figures
more generously proportioned. This was
seen in his exclusive Jacquard brocade.
For cooler days he has also designed the
sack-dress in warm, washable nylon-
jersey, the loose back being caught with
a centre-waist bow.
Another Parisian trend is the over-
skirt. A floral-patterned Swiss-brocade
frock, on sheath lines, had a separate
skirt, self-buttoned to the hem, which
could also be used as a cape, fastened
at the neck with the top button. Other
points of interest were the harem hemlines
in chiffon, brocade and silk-shantung
frocks. Also the new “bubble”-line,
which shows a band at the hemline. All
his jackets were back-belted and bloused.
A novel fabric was the subtly-printed
brown and blue pure-wool used in an
elegant day-frock, softly draped, high-
necked, and with a bloused back-
treatment.
☆ ☆ ☆
The highly successful barbecue-party
held at the Toorak home of Cr. and Mrs.
Bernard Evans netted £2OO for the new
Princess Hill Village. The six-story
building will contain 96 units, each of
which will comfortably house two old
people ; elevators will eliminate the need
for climbing stairs. The committee work-
ing for this good cause includes Mrs.
Evans, Mrs. Betty Angel, Mrs. Marion
Smith and Mrs. Frank Marland. Mr.
and Mrs. Stuart Bruce and Cr. and Mrs.
Douglas Cox worked hard for the success
of the barbecue, and among those who
enjoyed the tasty steaks and chops were
Mr. and Mrs. Lou Sallmann, Mr. and
Mrs. Frank Williams and Mr. and Mrs.
Ronald Evans.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Leslie Smith, wife of a well-known
medico, has been elected president of the
Loreto Old Girls’ Association and is also
president of the committee organising the
Loreto Ball, to be held on April 11 to
assist the Loreto Convent School build-
ing-fund. A number of ex-students, who
are being trained by Mrs. F. Galbally and
Mrs. C. McCann, will make their debut.
Tickets (at 375. 6d. each) for the ball,
venue for which is the Royale Ballroom,
may be obtained from Julianna Adams
(WF 1596), K. Calder (BJ 4197), Mrs. P.
Grigsby (LF 7090) and Mrs. E. Ryan
(WL 5854). The committee has decided
that tables will be allotted in order of
application. Old Loreto girls who live in
the country and who have not made their
debut are asked to contact either Mrs.
F. Galbally (Streeton Cres., East Ivanhoe),
or Mrs. C. McCann (215 Dandenong Rd.,
Windsor).
☆ ☆ *
When Miriam Grace, youngest
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C. S. Dalgleish,
of Glen Iris, was married last Friday
she was piped in to Glen Iris Presbyterian
Church by David Beveridge. The bride,
who wore white Chantilly-lace mounted
on nylon-tulle and taffeta, had her veil
held by a circlet of white flowers. Her
bouquet was of stephanotis and
gardenias. Susan Ross and Pam Jones
were her bridesmaids, Jennifer Hicks
flower-girl, and John Yamton page-boy.
Her bridegroom is Francis John, youngest
son of Mr. and Mrs. T. B. Yarnton, of
Glen Iris.
* ☆ ☆
The Victorian Golf Club was the
setting for the dinner-dance given by
Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Charlesworth to cele-
brate both the coming-of-age and the
engagement of their daughter Judith to
Michael James Beach, of Geelong.
Judith is wearing a sapphire ring
surrounded with diamonds.


HOLIDAY RESORTS
Torquay, Victoria,
Offers holiday bookings from
2nd February onwards.
g. r. McCartney,
Victorian Estate Agent.
Phone 366.
minis
Circular Charts for all types
of Recording Instruments '
lor any class of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
ACCURACY GUARANTEED
MCW« O'SULLIVAN Rs t«
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Poems of Lawson and “Banjo”
Paterson. —6689.
Copy of the old “Sydney Mail,”
about 1935, containing a script
called “Twelve Things to
Remember.” —6690.
To buy the following books:
Far Off; Near Home and Peep of
Day, author uncertain. —6691.
Information Sought
(1) Names of players of the 1903
N.Z. Rugby Union team to Aus-
tralia ? (z) Results of games on
that tour ? (3) Was this the first
N.Z. Union team to come to
Australia 3
(1) Fullback, W. J. Wallace;
tbreequarters, A. Asher, R. Mc-
Gregor, D. McGregor, J. Stalker;
five-eighths, M. E. Wood, J. W.
Stead, J. Duncan (captain); half-
backs, H. Kiernan, A. L.
Humphries; wing-iorwards, L.
Armstrong, H. G. Porteous; for-
wards, D. Gallaher, A. J. Long,
G. W. Nicholson, G. A. Tylor, A.
McMinn, D. Udy, J. Spencer, B. J.
Fanning, R. J. Cooke, F. Given.
(2) Results, as given by H. E.
Roberts, secretary of the N.S.W.
Rugby Union, were: defeated
N.S.W. 12-0; d. Western Districts
47-7; d. N.S.W. 3-0;- d. Metro-
politan Union 33-3; d. Queensland
17-0; d. Queensland Country
29-0; d. Queensland 28-0; d. New-
castle 53-0; d. Australia 22-3; d.
N.S.W. Country 32-0. Which adds
up to the remarkable record of 10
games, 10 wins, 276 points for and
only 13 against. (3) No, it was
the fourth —there were earlier
teams in 1884, 1893 and 1897.
* * * *
Information on machine-plant-
ing of kikuyu-grass ?
(From the N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture.) Experiments con-
ducted by C. R. Hood at Leeton
Experiment Farm showed that a
Ferguson tractor and ridger-equip-
ment. embodying toolbar-frame-
work on the hydraulic, with two
actual furrowing-out tools, was
most effective for the job. A
couple of planks were placed on
the toolbar upon which a large
box was attached. Furrows were
thrown-out 3ft. 6in. apart, and
sods dropped at 2ft. intervals.
There were three operators: driver,
and a man to each side of the
box. A log was drawn crossways
behind the furrowing-out gear,
pulling the soil back into the fur-
row. The Ferguson harrows were
run over the land to even-out the
area ready for irrigation. Most
sods were completely covered with
soil, but this didn’t affect the strike
in any way.
Prior to planting the sods super-
phosphate was distributed at the
rate of 2cwt. per acre. Another
2cwt. was applied as white-clover
seed was broadcast in the autumn.
Sods and cuttings used came from
an old-established kikuyu-grass
pasture, which was rotary-hoed
twice very snallow. Sods were
then raked into heaps and forked
on to the truck for transport to the
site. An area of kikuyu lch. long
by wide produced enough sods
to plant eight acres at the spacing
of 3ft. 6in. rows, and 2ft. spacing
within rows. Acreage actually
planted (2 \ acres in three hours)
is misleading; double that acre-
age could be handled in three
hours.
* * * *
Some information on Australian
painter Elioth Gruner?
Born at Gisborne (N.Z.) in
December, 1882, of a Norwegian
father and Irish mother, he was
brought to Australia the follow-
ing year. He studied under Julian
Ashton, and had his first success
as a landscape-painter at the
Society of Artists’ Exhibition in
1913; he also exhibited at the
Royal Academy and the New
Salon, Paris. He won the Wynne
Prize four times (1916, T 9, ’2l and
’29). He managed an exhibition of
Australian art at the Royal Academy
in 1923. He is represented in ail
important Australian galleries. A
loan exhibition of his works was
held at the N.S.W. Art Gallery in
1932-33, and a memorial loan-
exhibition of his paintings was held
at the same gallery (April-May,
1940). He was a sensitive painter
of quiet, restful scenes, and loved
depicting the springtime. William
Moore’s The Story of Australian
Art (1934) says: “Gruner became
known through his frosty-morning
series of landscapes, as the painter
of the dawn with the lights and
shadows streaming towards him—
‘Spring Frosts’ and ‘Morning
Light’ are two of his best
examples.” A further quote says:
“The art of Gruner [went] through
three phases. At the outset of his
career there was a poetic charm
about his work and a subtle hand-
ling of color. After a trip abroad
his compositions became more con-
structive, the effect being more
concentrated; he saw things in a
bigger way and had the courage
to emphasise form even when it
meant some sacrifice of the
picturesque. In the third stage he
returned to a more poetic render-
ing but with a definite arrangement
in composition—color and form
having a more equal say.” He
died in October, 1939.
• * • •
Meaning of following words used
by Bobbie Burns, and an example
of each —(1) “airt,” (2) “blaw,”
(3) “a’,” (4) “sae,‘” (5) “bield,”
(6) “meikle,” (7) “long syne” ?
(1) Direction, or quarter of the
sky—“My plaidie to the angry airt,
T’d shelter thee.” (2) To blow —
“In vain to me the cowslips
blaw.” (3) All—here is a line
which has the first three words
asked for: “Of a’ the airts the
wind can blaw, I dearly like the
west....” (4) So—“Sae fair her
hair, sae brent her brow.” (5)
“Bield,” “bid” or “beild” is a
shelter or dwelling—“ And roses
blaw in ilka bield”; “The sun
blinks kindly in the beil.” (6)
“Meikle,” “mickle,” “muckle” is
much, great or big—“An’ meikle
Greek an’ Latin mangled”; “An
twice as muckle’s a’ that.” (7)
Long since—Should auld acquaint-
ance be forgot, And days o’ lang
syne.”
♦ * * *
Some details of the Manchester
method of fly-strike prevention ?
This is an effective method of
preventing breech- and tail-strike.
Developed by Mr. L. L. Man-
chester of Charleville, Queensland,
it aims at extending the bare area
around the vulva and over the end
of the docked tail by the applica-
tion of a caustic solution. The
work must be done within a day or
two of shearing or crutching to
ensure a minimum growth of wool
on the areas to be treated. As the
method is patented, details of
formula and technique can’t be
given. Results are similar to
those obtained by the modified
Mules-operation, i.e., an extension
of the bare area by stretching. Ihe
wounds take from four to eight
weeks to heal completely; when
the crusts fall off and the wound
is properly healed the sheep gain
permanent protection against
crutch-strike.
The treatment is slower to carry-
out than the modified Muies-opera-
tion, and the healing ok the
wounds takes longer. Also, there
is a greater danger of fly-strike
under the crusts unless treatment-
time is carefully chosen. The final
result is very satisfactory.
(Information from N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture.)
* * • •
Why do" we call a ship “she” ?
Many reasons have been given
for calling a ship “she”: some sea-
farers facetiously argue that a
vessel is always feminine because
she requires constant painting and
that it takes a man to handle her.
Others explain that because a
ship has waist, bonnets, laces,
stays, scarves, combings, jewels,
earrings and often had a bustle
about her, the gender is appropri-
ately feminine. Then there’s a
school that thinks the use of the
feminize figures gracing ships’
prows determine the choice.
It’s a bit of a puzzle.
Phoenician and Egyptian boats,
among recorded history’s earliest,
were decorated with male animals,
often dragons, serpents and
monsters, unalterably masculine.
Nor can the femininity be
accounted for by the gender of the
word itself. “Ship” is masculine
in French, Spanish and Portuguese
and possesses no sex in Teutonic or
Scandinavian. During the 17th
and 18th centuries ocean-going
craft were called merchantmen,
men-of-war or India-men. Even
as early as 1426, an historian
declared that “every ship weighed
his anker.” In 1576, a treatise
mentions that “in a shyppe the
rudder ought to be lesse than may
suffice to direct hys course.”
Shakspeare wrote about “a shippe
boring the moon with her main
mast,” but a contemporary ship-
master recorded in his diary that
“we mette a great Dutch shippe
neare Nassaport Point. He wore a
flag.” As late as 1784, the authors
of the famed Spectator Papers
recognised the masculinity of
vessels, writing that “the last ship
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(13/3/’5B )
Coastal areas of Queensland should get reasonably
good rains during April, with heavy rains on the south
coast. Light to moderate, patchy rains likely elsewhere, with
poor rainfall in the west and far south-west.
Heavy rain is indicated on the north and central coasts
of N.S.W. during April, but rainfall will probably be poor
elsewhere in the State. Moderate rain is likely on the south
tablelands, south-west slopes and Riverina during May, and
this shou'd be followed by good general rains during June.
Rainfall probably poor in Victoria during April,
although good general rains should commence in May.
Heavier rains are likely in June and July, with the likelihood
of flooding.
South Australia likely to have poor rainfall only during
April, apart from moderate rain in the lower north. Good
rains in the agricultural areas in May.
Good general rains should be received in most of
Western Australia during April, with heavy rains in the east
Gascoyne area, but poor rainfall on the south coast.
LENNOX WALKER.


was swallowed up within sight of
his own shore.” The Bible,
describing the travels of the
apostle Paul, tells us that the
disciple “landed at Tyre; for there
the ship was to unlade her burden.”
Possibly as sound a theory as can
be advanced to explain why a ship
is called “she” goes back to the
Old Testament, to the time of the
Greek mariners. These navigators
gave their ships feminine names,
probably in deference to
Athene, goddess of the sea. What-
ever the origin, the Greeks had a
word for it.
Brief Answers
J.D.W.: Write Anglo - Swiss
Watch Co. Pty., Ltd., 300 Little
Collins Street Melbourne....
Elio: You have it slightly wrong.
A report in January this year was
that Dr. Douglas Kelley, aged 45,
the chief U.S. psychiatrist at the
Nuremberg war-trials and since
1949 Professor of Criminology at
the University of California, had
killed himself by swallowing a small
vial of potassium-cyanide poison
brought back from the trials as a
souvenir. He had been despondent
because of illness. This was the
same poison used by Hermann
Goering when he suicided after he
had been sentenced to death at the
Nuremberg trials in 1946... .R.W.:
Winners of the Wimbledon singles
since World War II have been —1946,
Y. Petra (France), who defeated
Australian Geoff Brown in the
final; 1947, J. Kramer (U.S.A.);
1948, R. Falkenburg (U.S.A.), who
defeated John Bromwich (Australia)
in the final, having to save three
match-points before winning; 1949,
E. Schroeder (U.S.A.); 1950,
Budge Patty (U.S.A.), defeating
Australian Frank Sedgman in the
final; 1951, R. Savitt (U.S.A.),
who defeated Australian K.
McGregor in the final; 1952, F.
Sedgman (Aust.); 1953, V. Seixas
(U.S.A.); 1954, J. Drobny (Egypt),
who defeated K. Rosewall (Aust.);
1955, T. Trabert (U.S.A.); 1956
and 1957, L. Hoad (Aust.), who
defeated Rosewall in the final in
1956 and Cooper (Aust.) in 1957.
. ...T.0.: Yes. “A” may make
use of his partner’s call to boost-
up his own call, and they may do
so until one passes, even though
neither opponent called... .E.8.R.:
(1) “Summer of the Seventeenth
Doll” was originally produced by
Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims which state the
section in which paragraphs
appear and the date of
appearance will be paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
the Union Theatre in association
with the Australian Elizabethan
Theatre Trust in November, 1955.
Next, it was produced by the
A.E.T.T. at the Elizabethan
Theatre, Sydney, on January 10,
1956, and on July 21 of that year
at the Comedy Theatre, Melbourne,
by the A.E.T.T. (2) It’s been
published by Angus and Robertson,
Sydney. Pictorial supplement
published by “Pix,” giving story
of play, on March 23 and 30, 1957.
■ Still Waiting: Figures issued
in January by the Director of the
N.S.W. State Lotteries, C. Tallen-
tire, showed that £13,404,806 was
spent on tickets in N.S.W. lotteries
during 1957. The “breakdown”
was as follows: £6,888,784 on 250
ss. 6d. lotteries; £4,169,573 on
84 10s. lotteries; £1,876,724 on 18
£1 lotteries; and £469,725 in the
£5 First Opera House Lottery....
J. 0.: (1) That’s right. Winner ot
the 1957 Brownlow Medal (awarded
to the “best-and-fairest” player in
the Victorian Football League) was
St. Kilda ruckman Brian Gleeson.
(2) Yes. Terry Gleeson, the Mel-
bourne ruckman, is his brbther....
R.A.: St. George won Sydney’s
Rugby Union and Rugby League
competitions in 1957. In the
Union “the Saints” beat Gordon
21-3 in the grand-final, and in the
League grand-final defeated Manly
31-9... .8.5.: Write the Shiplovers’
Society of Victoria, Box 1169 K,
G.P.0., Melbourne, for copy of
“The Dog Watch” No. 14. (“Dog
Watch” is the annual of the Ship-
lovers’ Society.) S.S.: Those
nags are Phar Lap (the Red
Terror); High Caste (the Straw-
berry Bull); Rogilla (Big Red;
same as Redcraze) and Peter Pan
(Silver Tail).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
frame and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken le contributor , voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered us the Editor
thinks necessary.
J.G.: MSS. pinned together with
a bobby-pin is always regarded
with suspicion 5.8.: That’s a
pretty little feather to float in—
and out —the d00r.... Y.U.: You
will have the Religious Editor in
a fit... .K.J.S.: A very good poem
loi a ghost 8.5.: You have a
faint lyrical note which vanishes
when you say things such as “the
momentary understanding of the
liner things”... .P.M.C.: View ot'
the sea in scalloped petticoats is
too feminine tor u5....J.P.:
Judith Wright was years ahead of
you with that one J.W.8.:
Your indignation might be more
precisely expressed in prose
G.J.: A good first-attempt.
Improve characterisation and
development of plot; try for more
natural dialogue.... A.C.C.: There
are possibilities; note suggestions
given to G.J., and, above all, keep
trying A.D.: Thanks for the
compliment, but we couldn’t allow
it to bribe us. Our decision
remains: No J.W.: “The Big
Winds” won’t bluster through our
columns S.J.: Neither will that
outspoken tirade... .F.J.: It’s
wonderfully short; but does
a cavalcade really get time to
do much “begetting”?... .H.B.
(S.A.): They’re a bit rough....
N.S.: Nice bits of landscape and
flai narrative mixed in “Soldier
Settler”... .G.M.L.: And what
may all that be about?... .M.C.:
We’ll have just a piece of “How
Macdonald Copped a Roar”:
A peaceful spot is Surfers’ P. The
folk that live around—
We keep ourselves by taking guests, six
quid a day, all found.
But the folk are now reviling as they
ne’er reviled before,
For Macdonald came to Surfers, and he
said it was a bore.
G.H.: “The bleeding’s
stopped. My God, it’s sweet.”
Very pleased to hear it; and that’s
where you stop, t00....A.R.:
Pleasant enough, but neither here
nor there... .M.D.: Not likely.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 479
Down
1— Noted comic sagacity of the Conqueror’s people. (6, 6)
2 How the Red Shadow was often diaphragms. (8)
3 Cayenne to ring sides of buildings who think they’re
terribly well informed? (4-4)
4 Fifty that is not the truth. (3)
5 When I am in the objective about the lake. (4)
6 Wrought silver strip of metal. (6)
7 From a long-ago King of Mercia. (4)
8— Exmoor outlaws do over the singles. (6)
12 — Unsecretive strain smashed a
crooner. (5, 7)
14 — A half-quart circle horse of two
colors. (5)
15— Favorite fit of ill-temper. (3)
18— Bears wounded by this weapon.
(5)
19 — It stimulates the sleuth of the
science of building. (8)
20 — A Nazi put his foot in it. (4-4)
21 — The German lair. (3)
22 Medical man employs a heretical
Moslem sect. (6)
23 — Venerate a little cleric before
a famous American horseman.
(6)
26 — Sent in snares. (4)
27 State horseshoe millinery is put
up. (4)
29 —China dropping in tea. (3)
Across
I—Dullard1 —Dullard unturned 1000 cranium.
(8)
s—Mother5 —Mother and child by film-acting
James who works with stone?
(5)
7 —The Irish of French of poetry.
(3)
9—Freshly forced forward a Com-
munist to wander. (2-5)
10— Arched formation of the brain
for nothing. (6)
11— Enemy turn of East! (3)
13 — An edge snake boy referring to
the one-eyed folk of the classics.
(10)
15 — Gvnt blueblood to look intently.
(4)
16 — Jug with which we interrupt
Queen Elizabeth. (4)
17 — West Indies cat steamer tempera-
ment and attitudes of the ideal
belter-half. (10)
22 Koussevitzky even wrote a con-
certo for this B. B. Burro. (6-4)
23 — Bring up the back. (4)
24 — The male sex apostrophised a
portent. (4)
25 — Attempted articles from France
and Germany, thanks to the
little Kenneth work to dispose
of the dead North. (10)
27 — Employ Sue after changes are
made. (3)
28 — Matter which worries the censor
trumpet without its backside
music for six. (6)
29 — Mate to study and classify. (7)
30— A steamship burro. (3)
31 — Meat from the shelf. (5)
32 — Sailor snubbed back at the mid-
way point between Melbourne
and Sydney. (8)
Solution to Crossword No. 478


The meaning: of Repeat.
According to the Oxford
Dictionary, the word “repatria-
tion” means “return or restoration
to one’s own country.”
For literary usage that is all very well,
but for close on 40 years the word has
had a very specialised meaning for Aus-
tralians ; it denotes the Commonwealth
department responsible for giving aid
and succor to incapacitated war-veterans
and to the dependants of those who died
in their country’s service.
In the early years after the two World
Wars it was responsible for placing in
employment and providing vocational
training for large numbers of returned
men. Today its most important functions
concern the granting and administration
of war- and service-pensions and the
provision of medical and surgical
treatment.
Under each of these headings it affects
intimately the lives of a vast number of
Australians. “Repat.”—the abbreviation
itself connotes an affectionate regard not
usually associated with the common
man’s relationships with a Government
organisation—has thus acquired a mean-
ing far removed from its dictionary
definition.
The latest report of the Repatriation
Commission, covering the year ended
June 30, 1957, gives some idea of the
magnitude of this work. Up to that
date the number of war-pensions claims
lodged had totalled 1,490,618. Of these,
631,693 arose out of the 1914 war;
853,079 from the 1939 war and 5846
from operations in Korea and Malaya.
At the end of June there were 613,290
still in force, involving an annual
liability of £44,872,735, split-up thus:
Annual
No. Cost.
1914 war 133,240 £19,074,146
1939 war .. .. 476,675 £25,609,725
Korea-Malaya .. 3,375 £188,864
Paying the Cost
VI/HEN demagogues speak of the ease
with which money was raised to
pay for the two wars and suggest that
it could be raised just as “easily” now
to pay for whatever their pet plan of
the moment happens to be, they overlook
(among other things) the fact that in
many ways the wars are still being paid
for.
Forty years after World War One the
community is still paying over £l9
million a year in war-pensions alone,
just as the recipients are still paying for
that war in deprivations and in mental
and physical suffering.
In the year under review 2755 new
War I pensions were granted; in the
same period death and other factors
removed 5628 from the list. This has
been the pattern for several years. In
the natural order of things the number
of War I pensioners will continue to
decline.
Even the youngest of the Old Diggers
are now over 60. The peak year for
incapacitated servicemen of the 1914 war
was reached early-—by 1920 there were
90,389 pensioners in this class —but claims
for dependants continued to grow for
another ten years, so that in 1930 there
were 279,285 persons on the war-pensions
list, of whom 74,578 were ex-servicemen
and 204,707 dependants. By 1957 the
numbers were 57,380 Old Diggers and
75,860 dependants.
In contrast with the early peak of War
I pensioners, the pension-roll for the
1939 war is still rising. Last year new
admissions, 28,634, brought the total to
476,675, comprising 143,055 incapacitated
ex-servicemen and 333,620 dependants.
Service-pensions
TN addition to war-pensions Repat.
A also administers service - pensions,
which are payable (subject to means-test)
to returned servicemen over 60 or who
are permanently unemployable ; also to
ex-servicemen suffering from pulmonary
tuberculosis.
Pensions payable under the first of
these classifications are available only
for the serviceman himself; those under
classes two and three may be claimed
also in respect of wives and children.
At the end of June there were 39,077
service-pensions in force, with an annual
liability of £5,242,491. As these are, in
a sense, an age-pension, it is natural that
War I veterans form the majority of
the recipients. But the list embraces
the two extremes of war-service—s 47
earned their entitlement in the Boer
War ; 17 in Korea and Malaya.
Medical Services
T> EPAT. is, however, probably best
known through its medical services,
and especially through the Repatriation
general hospitals it maintains in all the
capital cities. Yaralla, Heidelberg,
Greenslopes and the others are names
that bring a surge of gratitude to the
breasts of thousands of Diggers—and
their numbers are being added-to every
day.
In the year covered by the report
40,898 patients were treated in these
hospitals. There was a daily average of
2980 patients, who were hospitalised
for an average of 27 days. Of these 43.4
per cent, were classified as medical
cases; 26.7 p.c. as surgical; 18.5 p.c.
tuberculous; 11.4 p.c. psychiatric.
Admissions covered a very wide age-
range. Several patients were well into
their nineties; 48 were children under
seven —for Repat. also treats widows
and children of deceased servicemen and,
in certain circumstances, their widowed
mothers.
During 1957 special records were kept
of former p.-0.-w. admitted to hospital.
These showed that psychiatric disorders
were the most common disability, with
a slightly higher incidence among
prisoners from the European theatre
than from the Asian. This section also
showed a higher incidence of t.b. and
respiratory troubles; Japanese p.-0.-w.
showed a higher incidence of dis-
abilities of the nervous system and sense-
organs ; abdominal and infective and
parasitical diseases.
In addition to the patients admitted to
the R.G.H.s, 1134 cases were treated
in Repatriation t.b.-sanatoria, 1030 were
in-patients of State mental hospitals and
2443 were treated at metropolitan and
country hospitals.
For cases which do not require
hospitalisatipn, out-patient treatment is
provided out-patient clinics, the
R.G.H.s and the Repat. sanatoria. These
recorded 385,752 attendances in 1956-57
and in the same period local medical-
officers recorded 841,735 visits.
Other Activities
A LTHOUGH it is more than 12 years
since World War II ended the loose
ends of the rehabilitation and reconstruc-
tion programmes instituted before
demobilisation have not yet been finally
tied-up. At the end of June last year 450
persons were still undergoing training
under the Commonwealth Reconstruction
Training Scheme. By the time these pass
through the C.R.T.S. will have given
57,408 ex-servicemen full-time training in
trades or professions and 64,085 part-
time training. A similar scheme operates
fbr Korea-Malaya personnel; it has
handled 2196 men.
Repat. also provides financial assist-
ance in educating children of deceased
or disabled soldiers. As a legacy of the
two wars 50,859 beneficiaries have
participated in this scheme; 8438 were
still receiving training at the end of
last year.
Over the years various amendments
to the Repatriation Acts have provided
additional benefits for particular types
of disability. These include gift motor-
cars for members who have lost both
legs ; assistance towards the supply and
fitment of driving-devices for partly-
disabled men ; artificial limbs ; surgical
aids and appliances ; hearing aids. Com-
pared with the total annual bill for
pensions and the more general medical
services the cost of these “extras” is not
prodigious, but the relief they give in
individual cases is considerable. They
are all part of the reason why, in Aus-
tralia, repatriation, and especially Repat.,
means much more than “return to one’s
own country.”


WILLIAM INGLIS & SON PTY. LTD.
Annual Easter Sales
of Bloodstock
will be held at
NEWMARKET STABLES, RANDWICK,
as follows:
Thoroughbred Yearlings
6th, 10th, 11th and 14th APRIL,
commencing at 10 a.m. each day.
Dispersal Sale of Baramul Stud
(the property of Mr. A. O. Ellison)
TUESDAY, 15th APRIL, at 2 p.m.
Catalogues on application.
Brood Mares
THURSDAY, 17th APRIL, at 1 p.m.
Particulars have already been received of the following:—
70 WELL-BKED BROOD MARES, many with foals at foot by
well-known sires and served again.
Further entries invited.
Stallions, Untried Stock and
Racehorses-in-Training
FRIDAY, 18th APRIL, at 1 p.m.
RACEHORSES: My Hali, Vista Del Mer, Royal Nymph, Barleycorn,
Crebious, Illinois, Duchess Delville, Gay Delville, King Manna,
Festino, Blazing Star, Lord Bronte, Little Rock, All Wool, Miss
Miami, Fitzinaurice, New Melody, Litche, Lady Castle) Bengola,
Yoland, Bridesman, Aginolli, Umbargy, Aliscia, Conference, Lolga,
Naroto, Turk Dean, Nearby, Valtran, Shining Symbol, Piccard,
Harriet’s Pride, Whirlwist, Bulawayo, Bergamo, etc.
Further entries invited.
WILLIAM INGLIS & SON PTY. LTD.
Bloodstock Salesmen,
28 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM
Sydney Racing
A.J.C. committeeman Brian
Crowley was quick off the
mark to register the name
Sputnik for his colt foal,
brother to Skyline, easy winner
of the rich Golden Slipper
Stakes. He did this some time
ago. Skyline is also well
named, as he is by Star King-
dom (imp.) from Flight’s
Daughter, and is the first
progeny of that daughter of
the famous mare, Flight.
Before winning the Golden
Slipper, Skyline opened his
account in the A.J.C. Juvenile
Graduation Stakes. A quick
rise from success as a maiden
on Saturday to an easy win
against the best two-year-olds
a week later. Skyline made
Misting look like a second-
rater —which, of course, he
isn’t. Perhaps the sturdy grey
has had enough racing for the
time being. At any rate, no
time was lost in returning him
to Melbourne. He might have
better luck in Sydney in the
spring.
Monte Carlo has won four
of his last five races, latest the
S.T.C. Cup at Rosehill, carry-
ing 9.5. He faces a much
tougher task in the Sydney Cup
and, as yet, is unproved over
two miles. He was unplaced
in the Sydney Cup last year
with 8.3, and again missed out
in the Melbourne Cup, for
which he was second-favorite,
carrying 9st. He finished 13th
after being well in the picture
until the closing stages. Dalton
has the New Zealand-owned
four-year-old in great fettle,
and even if he isn’t capable of
running out the two miles of
the Cup there will be other
races over middle distances
that will suit him at Randwick.
He might also compete at
Warwick Farm on Saturday
next.
• • • •
Big disappointment at Rose-*,
hill was Waterford, now raced
by Joe Harris. Waterford
started equal second-favorite,
but beat only four home.
Maybe he’s no stayer. He’s
won over 10 furlongs.
In the spring Goldenway
won the Edward Manifold
Stakes and the One Thousand
Guineas in Melbourne, and
also finished second to Orient
(beaten by a nose) in the San-
down Guineas at Caulfield.
Goldenway reversed the posi-
tions with Orient in the Rose-
hill Cinderella Quality Handi-
cap for three-year-old fillies.
Orient, the favorite, was no
match for Goldenway. Silver
Leaf, a winner at Cootamundra
last November, but a failure
in Sydney so far, started at
100 to 1 and finished third
after leading into the straight.
Goldenway had been brought
to her top by two races in
Flying Handicap company in
one of which her stable gave
her winning prospects, but a
slow beginning settled her
prospects in the Randwick
sprint, won by Gold Stakes.
The filly’s stablemate, Cerasus,
in the Golden Slipper was
expected to make it two wins
for Shean, but she was checked
soon after the start and was
not in a winning position
afterwards.
Achnacary, who came to
Sydney a few weeks ago and
in February ran two good races
in graduation company at
Rosehill (on both occasions he
was ridden by Queensland
jockey M. Singho) had his first
start for his new owner, Mrs.
M. Pollard, in the Rosehill
Encourage Handicap. Achna-
cary got up in the final stride
or two to beat the opening
favorite, Dominant Gene.
McGrowdie rode a confident
race on the former Queens-
lander, who is now trained at
Canterbury by Jack Denham.
• • • •
Sydney weights are framed
on a 7st. limit, and Tulloch
tops the list with 9.7. A start
for him has yet to be deter-
mined, but should he come
through immediate engage-
ments successfully (and a defeat
isn’t anticipated) he might have
a job winning with that welter
weight.
As expected, the Rosehill
w.f.a. Rawson Stakes was an
easy task for champion
Tulloch. Moore won his third
Rawson, as he was previously
successful on Tarien and Forest
Beau. Redcraze, then in the
T. J. Smith stable, won the race
last year with A. Ward as
jockey. Ward also had two
earlier wins, on Vagabond and
Columnist. Bill Cook, who was
at Rosehill on crutches, recover-
ing from a broken leg, won
the race in 1956 on Arlunya.
Tulloch’s 1.52 3-10 was slow,
but the race was slowly run.
Before racing at Rosehill,
where he won the Railway
Quality Handicap in easy
fashion, Chieti was not con-
sidered more than a rough
show in the A.J.C. Doncaster
Handicap, but he is now among
the fancied horses, and, with
7.7, could be a lightweight
prospect. It was his first win
in six months. Chieti was
bought cheaply as a yearling for
200gns.
A few minutes before Monte
Carlo won the S.T.C. Cup at
Rosehill for trainer F. Dalton,
a former member of his stable,
Scotch Lassie, won, the First
Improvers’ Handicap at New-
castle. Scotch Lassie didn’t race
to expectations for the Dalton
stable, and was taken over by
Percy Gutteridge, who has done
well with the four-year-old.
Sydney’s annual yearling-
sales, to be held at William
Inglis and Son’s Newmarket
stables, Randwick, on April 8,
10, 11, and 14, should get
away to a good start, as early
offerings on the opening morn-
ing will include the progeny of
well-known sires Star King-
dom (imp.), Delville Wood
(imp.), Persian Book (imp.), and
the first of the Good Brandy
(imp.) youngsters.
* * *
—and Melbourne
Minor placegetter in last
year’s V.R.C. Derby and a
distant second to Tulloch in the
St. Leger, Tuki has been rated
the best of Victoria’s three-
year-olds—which isn’t very high
praise. Not in this writer’s
memory has Victoria had such
a poor crop of three-year-olds.
On the strength of his reputa-
tion, Tuki was sent out odds-on
favorite in the 13-furlongs
Gisborne Handicap for three-
year-olds, main event on the
programme at Moonee Valley ;
and finished a weary second to
Keysborough, who had run


unplaced In trial company af
his previous start.
• • • •
Keysborough, a gelding by
Delville Wood from High Class
(most of his sire’s stock have
been able to go a distance),
raced and trained by the same
interests as Sailor’s Guide,
finished the 13-furlong journey
looking fit enough to go round
again. He may turn out a good
horse as he matures.
Former champion miler
Attley has had only moderate
success at the stud, but his
mating with Lady Brian has
produced a youngster of real
promise, the gelding Shamrock
Isle. Carrying top-weight in the
six furlongs less 20 yards,
Preston Handicap at Moonee
Valley, Shamrock Isle raced
right away from the opposi-
tion to score his fourth win in
succession. He has come up
from a Maiden win at Woodend
in January to success at Werri-
bee, Flemington, and now the
Valley. Lady Brian has had
five foals and all have won
races.
• • • •
The Empyrean colt
Planetoid, noted here last week
as a galloper above the
ordinary, won the second
division of the Preston Handi-
cap more easily than this
writer has seen any horse win
a sprint event for many years.
His winning margin was an
official eight lengths, and Ron
Hutchinson started to ease him
down soon after the horse
turned into the straight. The
field Planetoid defeated was
admittedly poor class, but the
colt gave them all weight and
could scarcely have won more
comfortably. Trainer Bob
Clarton rates Planetoid the best
youngster he has ever prepared.
Clarton persuaded breeder
Tom Logan to sell Planetoid to
his patron, Dave Whiteside,"
after the colt had been passed
in at the yearling sales, where
the top bid made for him was
1200gns.
Trainer Vin Ryan, in Sydney
to prepare Misting for the
Golden Slipper Stakes, must
have been consoled a little
when, half-an-hour after the
champion’s defeat, Awaiting
scored in the first Yuroke
Handicap at Moonee Valley.
A three-year-old filly, Await-
ing is by Misting’s sire, Meadow
Mist, and is trained by Ryan
for Mrs. E. Coady. The filly
came from the same stud as
Misting—Sir Chester Mani-
fold’s Talindert stud at
Camperdown. Awaiting
finished very fast to win the
Yoroke run over the six
furlongs less 20 yards course —■
and looks as if she may stay
better than most of the
Meadow Mist breed. Her dam,
Hesitant, was by Blank, who
was by Foxlaw from Blank-
quette. There is staying-blood
in that line.
As a two-year-old the geld-
ing, Targui Lord, showed a
"And don't smear each other's make-up — We're
on TV."
lot of promise. He has been
a difficult horse to train, but
Ken Hilton seems to have the
youngster close to his best.
Racing in open company, he
put up a top-class performance
to finish third behind Stormy
Sky and Copper Year in the
Warrook Handicap at the
Valley. Fie had to go around
everything turning into the
short straight and finished
almost along the grandstand-
side rail. If he is produced
in three-year-old company next
start, he should be something
to bet on.
• • • •
Melbourne racing-men who
would not hear of Misting
being beaten In the Golden
Slipper Stakes are wondering
now whether the Sydney
climate has any effect on horses
from the south. Shrewd
trainer Tommy Smith once
remarked that even the best
of his charges look better and
race better when he takes them
to Melbourne. It will be
interesting to see how Nilento
performs in the Sires’ Produce.
In the week before he left
for Sydney, Nilento showed
sparkling form on the track
at Caulfield where he is
trained. Melbourne racegoers,
who are as partisan as Sydney
ones, will be very disappointed
it the powerfully-built Nilento
does no better than Misting.
For years a prominent rider
in Perth, Frank Treen is mak-
ing a success of his second
attempt to get to the top
amongst Melbourne jockeys.
He rode a double at Moonee
Valley, winning both heats of
the Yuroke Handicap. The
one fault in his riding at
present can be traced to his
determination to make good.
He is riding in fearless style,
and will push a horse through
the narrowest of openings.
Admirable though such
courage is, it can be danger-
ous if not tempered with
judgment.
+ +■
Trotting
Odds-on favorites won three
of the four heats of the N.S.W.
Sapling Stakes at Harold Park
last Friday night. Robert Lawn,
who started favorite at odds-on
in Heat two, was unplaced.
Trainer Jim Caffyn landed a
double when he drove Eden
Monaro to victory from Hot
Spell and High View in the first
heat. He’d earlier won the
Qualifying Stakes with Mid-
night Miss. The second heat
was won by Bourndawin from
Big Time and Bare Gamble in
2.151 (fastest time of the four
heats). This time compares
favorably with the race-record
of 2/12, as heavy rain early in
the' night had made the track
sodden. Caffyn was forced to
scratch fancied horse Best
Ever in the third heat because
she was running a temperature.
Ten-to-nine-on favorite Valiant
Ribbon won this heat from
Keentowin and Cula t e r.
Amazing Vale ran a great race
in the fourth heat. After break-
ing and losing 20 to 30 yards
at the start, he dashed to the
front shortly after the bell and
came away to win by six
lengths. He started at 7-to-4 on
and won from Bland Raider
and Luggie Bank. The 12 place-
getters will contest the final
next Saturday night.
* * *
Sundry Sports
Some recent amateur
athletics:
Last Thursday night, at Sydney
Sportsground, Marlene Mathews
won the Australian women’s 100yds.’
*itle in world-record time, 10.3 sec.
She won her heat in 10.45ec., which
equalled the previous world-record,
held jointly by Marjorie Jackson
and Betty Cuthbert (whose time
was set in the N.S.W. champion-
ships on Mar. 1). Betty Cuthbert
and third-placegetter, Wendy
Hayes, both equalled the previous
world-record for the event in the
final. It was good to see Miss
Mathews, who’s been a very honest
runner and has always had stiff
opposition (first from Marjorie
Jackson, then from Betty Cuth-
bert), at last - achieve a world-
record. >
Less than 48-hours later, on
Saturday afternoon, Miss Mathews
set a second world-record, 23.45ec.
for the 220yds., in the title-run for
that distance. This took one-tenth
of a second off Betty Cuthbert’s
record, also set in the N.S.W.
championships (on Mar. 8). As
in the 100yds. run, Miss Cuthbert


Hotel Built for Tomorrow
m
m
m
The most luxurious accommodation.
The most beautiful Gardens and Surroundings,
100 yards from the Beach.
The largest Private Fresh Water Swimming Pool in
Australia.
The unsurpassed Service.
The Cuisine at the best, A La Carte and Table
d’Hote, and, of course, every room has its
own Private Bathroom, Telephone and Private
Balcony.
NOW! and throughout the Tourist Season the following Rates will apply:—
BED SITTING ROOM ONLY FROM .... £2/2/- per day
SPECIAL WEEK-END TARIFF £lO/10/- PER PERSON
Friday after Dinner until Monday after Breakfast (Table d’Hote)
You can enjoy one week at this most fabulous hotel with three table d’hote meals per day for
£2 7/10/- per person. Children under 10 years Half Price.
Bring your Family and enjoy this most up-to-date Hotel. Sport, Entertainment, Dancing, Fishing and
Cruising Excursions arranged. Make your reservations early to avoid disappointment.
Book through all Travel Agents, Lennons Hotels or Direct with
LENNONS BROADBEACH HOTEL
Phone: Surfers Paradise X2OOl.
Similar Terms at KIRRA HOTEL, COOLANGATTA. Phone Tweed Heads 851.
Also stay at Lennons “Toowoomba.” In the Garden City of Queensland. Single Bed Sitting Rooms from £2/2/- per day.
again finished second, with pro-
mising Westralienne K|y Johnson
third.
Though Betty Cuthbert won the
'1956 Olympic 100- and 200-metres
events, with Marlene Mathews third
each time, it is not something new
for the latter to come in first.
In Jan.-Feb., 1957, in five succes-
sive races (three 100yds. and two
220yds.), four were won by Miss
Mathews.
In a couple of other noteworthy
efforts, South Australian girl Norma
Thrower, who finished third in
.Shirley Strickland’s 80-metres-
hurdles win at the Melbourne
Olympics, won the Australian 80-
metres-hurdles title in 10.65ec.,
equalling the world-record, held by
an East German girl; but wind-
assistance was ruled.
The high-jump was won by young
N.S.W. girl Michele Mason, with
a leap of sft. 6in., which equalled
the Australian record.
Here are a couple of intefesting
results from the second day of the
Australian men’s athletic cham-
pionships in Brisbane (they were
too late to be recorded in last
week’s Bulletin) : Herb Elliott
retaining his 880yds. title in the
good time of lmin. 49.45ec., with
Lincoln in second place (Elliott
soon afterwards ran another fast
half-mile, to lead W.A. to victory
in the mile medley relay); 19-year-
old N.S.W. “outsider” Terry Gale,
who had finished second to Hogan
in the 100yds., unexpectedly winning
the 220yds. in 21.65ec.; and Albert
Thomas, after running poorly in
the six-miles, won the three-miles —
in 1957 he’d also run poorly in
the six-miler, then v won the three-
miler. J .
There were no real surprises in
the 30 athletes picked for the
Empire Garnet last Sunday night.
All athletes chosen are potential
finalists, and quite a
Hogan, Gosper, Marlene Mathews
and/or Betty Cuthbert) should start
as favorites in their events. No
one is going just for a “joyride.”
The omissions of distance-runner
Lawrence and sprinter Bromhead
can hardly be described as “sur-
prises,” as, with the limited number
going, their recent efforts were not
that good.
» * *
The English Rugby League
team to tour Australia this year
has been named. Only 11
members of the last year’s
World Cup side are coming
back —and they’re not including
the brilliant but temperamental
Lewis Jones and big colored
winger Billy Boston. But,
whoever’s left behind, the Eng-
lish side that comes (as is
always the case) is bound to be
a strong one.
* * «
South Australian spin-bowler
Bruce Dooland, now 34, has
decided to retire from first-
class cricket. He played in
three Tests, two against Eng-
land in 1946-47 (taking 4-69,
1-84, 3-133 and 0-65) and one
against India in 1947-48 (taking
1-68). Australia was then well
supplied with bowlers of all
types, and the 40-over new-ball
rule didn’t favor spinners any-
way ; so Dooland tried his luck
in England, doing very well
in the Lancashire League and
then in his five years with
Notts : in two of which
(1954 and 1957) he got the
double of 1000 runs and 100
wickets. He played in every
Shield game for S.A. in 1957-
58 and, without doing anything
startling, was always handy;
he finished with 29 Shield
wickets for the season, the
second - highest wicket - taker
after Victoria’s lan Quick, who
took 32.
* * *
St. Patrick’s night proved
disastrous for Sydney light-
weight Bert O’Keeffe, who was
smashed into unconscious-
ness by N.S.W. lightweight
champion Stan Hayward, in
the ninth round of their fight
at Sydney Stadium; and
O’Keeffe remained in a coma
for days after. The pair had
earlier met at Lismore, Hay-
ward’s home-town, last August,
a willing bout ending in a
draw. Despite his punishment
of O’Keeffe, Hayward did not
impress some keen Sydney
judges. In his only other
capital-city fight, in Melbourne
in January, Hayward lost to
the back-pedalling Franco
RosinD* but he has a great
record up in Lismore, including
an early win over present Aus-
tralian middleweight champ.
Clive St_ewart.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FOREIGN AID
< < JT7HILE military strength
is unfortunately the
sine qua non for the preserva-
tion of freedom on this earth,
alone it is not enough. All the
armaments and all the missiles
will be of no avail if, in Presi-
dent Eisenhower's words, we
fail to ‘catch the vision of the
neighborhood of the world.’
The mutual security programme
already in its 10 years of life
has been a provable success;
but for the future it is among
the restive millions of Asia 'and
Africa particularly that, as
Mr. Truman says, ‘the battle
for peace and justice in the
world will be won or lost .’
Those people are seeking
democracy on their , own, but
Mr. Truman is right in noting
that the margin of help from
us [the U.S. ] may mean all the
difjerencg between success and
failure.”
Thus “New York Times”
expressing the popular view on
Uncle Sam’s massive annual
handouts to less-favorably
endowed countries. It is not,
of course, a unanimous opinion,
the other side being represented
bv, for instance, ’‘Chicago
Tribune”:
“President Eisenhower put
in his bid for $3900 million
to be spent on what he calls
mutual security and everybody
else calls foreign aid.
“To hear him tell it, the world
will fall apart if the American
taxpayers do not come across
to the extent demanded. Our
allies will lie helpless before the
Soviet menace and cannot be
expected to do anything effec-
tive to resist its advance. The
doubtful nations will be bought-
up by Soviet loans. America
will lose the bases on foreign
soil from which planes and
intermediate missiles may now
be launched against Russian
targets.
“Therefore, he [the Presi-
dent] would have us believe,
we must continue to lavish
gifts and loans upon foreign
nations, knowing that this is
the cheapest of all ways to pro-
mote our own security. We get
many dollar’s worth of defence-
effort from our allies, he says,
for each dollar that we send
them. ...
“Year after year the same
pitch is made and sometimes
Congress takes it as gospel and
gives the President everything
he asks. Sometimes, like last
year, Congress ventures to
slash the request, and nothing
happens. When they get the
money, our allies are no more
eager than before to serve as
a buffer, and when they don’t
get it, they do not join the
Communist bloc.”
A scanning of representative
U.S. papers, however, indicates
that the “Chicago Tribune”
view is a minority one —though
by no means un-influential. The
“Christian Science Monitor,”
for example, believes that
“people will stop talking about
‘pouring money down a rat-
hole’ when it is seen that three-
fourths of it comes back ’to
them and that the other three-
fourths (yes, the mathematics
is intentional) comes back in
international security.”
-London “Daily Matt"
"WATER! WATER!”
To which may be added the
comments of America’s U.N.
Ambassador Lodges
“It is no exaggeration to say
that the peoples in India and
Asia generally are watching
to see whether the authoritarian
system of Communist China
does more for the average man,
while denying him his civil
rights, than does the demo-
cratic system in India, which
aims to improve his material
well-being while preserving his
civil rights.”
Commenting on Mr. Lodge’s
statement, “N.Y. Times” points
out that “it was his belief that
American aid to India, includ-
ing the recently authorised loan,
would help in this decisive
battle of ideas,”, and that he.
Lodge, might do well to tell of
a situation in Kabul, where
“the Russians have built a
silo as part of their own
system of foreign' aid”:
“Next to the silo is a bakery
which takes grain from the silo,
bakes it into loaves and ‘delivers
it all over town.’ Mr. Lodge
was ‘pleased to find that all the
grain in the silo comes from
the United States.’ We wonder
if the ‘economy’ group in
Congress would like to cut-out
the money that buys that
grain.”
In a general survey of
foreign aid the world over—
“the bulk, of course, has come
from the United States, which,
since July, 1945, has helped
the rest of the world with some
$62,000 million of goods, ser-
vices and net credit” —London
“Economist” points out that
“American aid has fluctuated
and has changed in form. But
its total has shown a remark-
able constancy, varying only
between $4400 million and
$6400 million a year in the
whole post-war period. The
real value has fallen as prices
have risen ; but in figures the
aid to the foreigner which
became entrenched in the
American budget during the
war has remained a remark-
ably stable element in it since.
“The bulk of American aid
went to Europe in the first
post - war years, at first
through emergency aid and
credits to countries like Ger-
many, through bodies like
U.N.R.R.A. and through the
loan to Britain, and then, after
1947 V through the mounting
European Recovery Pro-
gramme.
“Assistance to EurQpe in
these years was most fruitful.
It recharged the batteries of
economies rich in inherited
skills and economic-, potenti-
alities, yet brqught to a halt
by war. It made possible the
import of essential tools and
materials to start-up idling
factories, financed the recovery
of multilateral trade, and
bridged the dollar-gap in. the
four difficult years before
Europe’s own recovery began
to replenish its gold and dollar
reserves.
“The Korean war brought
changes in the pattern of
American aid. The military
share leapt up and in time the
weight of aid and credits
tended to shift away from
Europe to Asia and the
Middle East. Military aid
obviously does not play the
same domestic part in an
economy as civil aid, but it
remains a valuable source of
dollars. American aid is now
a major source of capital and
reserves for the undeveloped
world.”
Other distributors of inter-
national largesse look com-
paratively small beside Uncle
Sam—“ Britain’s direct grants
abroad have been in the order
of £5O million a year, not a
great deal more than its receipts
of aids from across the
Atlantic” —and international
bodies such as the International
Monetary Fund (from which
members have drawn more


1
I
W//M
m.iß v
m
0
A Banking Service
that looks ahead
This Bank provides many facilities and
extra services for those who look to the
future. Helpful and friendly advice is avail-
able to our customers at Head Office or
any of the many branches of the Bank,
The Bank's services include the C.B.C.
Savings Bank which enables all members of
the family to plan and save for
the future. Deposits in the
C.B.C. Savings Bank Limited
are guaranteed
by the parent
Company.
r
TT
DE«3*P
u
m
M
than $2BOO million in 10 years),
and the World Bank (which
lias lent about $2400 million)
are largely backed by money
raised in the U.S.
The Soviet’s foreign-aid pro-
gramme, according to the U.S.
State Department, conhmits the
Soviet bloc to $l9OO million aid
or credit, of which $4OO million
is for arms, while only one-
fifth of the civil commitments
have been met “compared
with Western help to the un-
developed world, Soviet aid is
insignificant.”
Cold figures, however, the
“Economist” adds, do not
necessarily give an accurate
indication of the quality or
value of aid:
“Assistance on a modest
scale, if it takes the form of
men who can teach backward
people new skills, or of seminal
capital around which the,
recipient accumulates his own,
can be more valuable than a
big dollop squandered by
political corruption or spent
internally where there are not
real resources to meet the new
demand.”
The Middle East
“Looking back in anger” is
apparently something of a
fashion in London, but few
people look back with more
anger—and more sincerity—
than John Connell, author
and “Evening News” leader-
writer, who occasionally
scorches British Middle East
policy in the columns of Lon-
don “Time and Tide.” In a
current contribution to that
journal he writes that “it is
odd to realise that we, the
British, once had influence
and authority in the Middle
East”:
“Some of us had friends.
Some believed that, with
generous political concessions
and by an abandonment of
our sinful colonialist status,
we would preserve and
enhance our friendships.
There never was a greater
delusion. No sign has been
given that anyone involved
now attaches the slightest
importance to the old connec-
tion, or to the new, noble
relationship which was sup-
posed to develop out of it.
“Occasionally there are
rumors in London that
General Glubb is to be invited
to go back to Jordan. Mr.
St. John Philby indeed was
permitted to return to Saudi
Arabia, but with no suggestion
that he 1 would reassume the
great position which he once


s?j®
9L
13-
%
MM
*
mm
An exciting range
o> SIX
attractive colours
for Bathroom and Kitchen Walls
Gay, colourful Wunderlich "Duradec" is
made in six modern decorative colours—
Pink, Grey, Green, Buff, Blue and Black—
flecked with white. "Duradec" is wash-
able, scrubbable, economical and easy to
fix available in waste-saving sheets,
6' x 3', 6' x 4', T x 3' and 7' x 4'.
Free : Write to Wunderlich Limited, Dept.
"D," Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney, for coloured
folder and sample. '
!
62DDI
Decorated Wall Sheets
of Asbestos-Cement
Readily available from local distributors
KUCHING'S
TRAVEL GOODS
* SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KJTCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
-SYDNEY
held. And, while the British
refugees from Egypt in their
hostel near Kidderminster
make a pathetic attempt to go
on hunger-strike, Sir Denis
Rickett continues to try to
reach some sort of financial
settlement with the Egyptian
Government. Those hapless
refugees are the true embodi-
ments of our present plight,
did we but recognise it, not
the genial, retired senior
official up to whom a Sudanese
diplomat sidles at a reception,
observing with a mournful
grin, ‘Ah, things were better
in the old days, sir.’ We let
ourselves be kicked out with
ignominy—and that is what
the Middle East remembers.
“An epoch ended when we
abdicated our authority. It
has not been our going, how-
ever, but the manner of it,
which has produced all these
evil and dangerous consequ-
ences. We fumbled
irresolutely, we slithered from
blunder to blunder, we evaded
our responsibilities and
betrayed our friends while we
tried to appease our enemies,
“For a whole decade British
officials sought to persuade
the Governments of Irak and
Jordan that some form of co-
operation, not merely
rhetorical, would be to their
advantage; one or two of
them were courageous enough
to point out that it would be
as well to come to some kind
of agreement with Israel, and
King Abdullah was murdered
because he listened to that
advice and tried to put it into
practice.
“Less than a fortnight’s
awestruck contemplation of
the preposterous yet sinister
sight of Colonel Nasser’s
United Arab Republic was
enough to persuade the two
Hashemite kingdoms to
federate; King Feisal and
King Hussein have pro-
claimed a dual monarchy and
Baghdad and Amman will be
alternative capitals. In
Paradise the princely grand-
fathers of these young men,
—London “Time and Tide”
Feisal I and Abdallah, will
doubtless have smiled —an
ironic, fraternal salute at this'
belated fruit of their labors.
“Abdullah, who was far-
sighted and shrewd, used to
cherish the dream of a
Greater Syria; the French,
then the British and finally the
intrigues of the Damascus
politicians thennselves pre-
vented the fulfilment of this
dream. It would at least have
forestalled some of the
expansionist ambitions of
Egypt’s latter-day Fiihrer,
who not unexpectedly is on
the move again.
“Colonel Nasser’s assault on
the Sudan coincides with the
melancholy and complicated
climax in the Franco-Tunisian
crisis. As happened when
Britain quitted, in Palestine,
in Egypt and in the Sudan,
France is being nudged and
jostled into the Way Out by
her friends and allies. The
Americans are as high-
mindedly—and dare one say
as maladroitly?—busy as ever
in Tunis, just as they used to
be in Cairo, on the fascinating
job of ‘liquidating
colonialism.’
■* “This American activity is
always especially hard to
stomach and they-persist in
it, although it is repeatedly
demonstrated that the chief
beneficiaries are the enemies
of us all. Russia does not
have to do anything; the
apples fall ripely into her
capacious lap.
“Colonel Nasser’s south-
ward range is not concerned
immediately with a stretch of
remote and barren desert. Its
purposes are manifold and are
certainly not unconnected
with Tunisia and Algeria.
Beyond the tactical intention
of influencing the forthcom-
ing elections in the Sudan lies
the strategic ambition to
enfold the Sudan into the
United Arab Republic. How
the tall, naked, pagan Dinka
fit into this project is any-
body’s guess, but the tech-
nique is precisely Hitlerian;
that eminent don, Dr. Kurt
von Schuschnigg, now resident
in the- United States, could
give the Sudanese a tip or two
from his ample experience.
“With the Sudan safely
lodged in a huge Afrieo-Asian
Anschluss, pressure can and


OPES
oj Every Type
and Size
Famous for many
years as Queensland’s
premier manufacturers
of envelopes we pro-
duce the \yell known—
“JAXUL” PATENT
CLEAR - FACE WIN-
DOW Envelopes in
sizes 5f ins. x ins.,
6f x 3f and 9 ins. x
4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED En-
velopes in all sizes,
No. 1 to No. 8.
Plain or Printed
COMMERCIAL En-
velopes in all standard
sizes and qualities,
plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application
Hickson &
O’Sullivan pty.ud.
Envelop* Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers (6 Printers
304-SOS QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
will swiftly be brought to bear
on a decadent Britain over the
control of the Nile waters.
The great Arab Empire, which
is to extend from the Atlas
to the Taurus, must also reach
down to the Equator.”
"Flags of
Convenience"
Edinburgh “Scotsman” com-
ment on the modern “pirates”:
“In the world of marine
commerce nowadays the
‘pirates’ are the ships that sail
free from crippling tax-bur-
dens imposed by the traditional
shipowning nations on their
own merchantmen. Today,
faced by a general trade-reces-
sion, those who own and build
ships are less than ever able
to meet the competition of the
ghost-fleets.
“The recession hits every-
one, but the untaxed cosmo-
politan millionaire has had a
chance to build-up reserves,
and his large margin of sheer
profit must be a competitive
advantage in good years and
bad.
“It is ironical that from the
viewpoint of the businessman
the world’s most highly
developed countries should be
the least worth living in. Their
huge defence-budgets on high
rates of taxation put their
citizens at a disadvantage not
only in the unimportant matter
of luxurious living, but in all
forms of business-competition
where opportunity goes to the
man with surplus capital. The
great nations have imposed a
handicap on themselves which
may in the end prove disas-
trous.
“So far no one has been
able to suggest a very effective
answer to the ‘flag-of-con-
venience’ problem. Ships will
be registered in Liberia, Hon-
duras, Costa Rica or Panama
for a negligible fee and escape
all the normal burdens of taxa-
tion. One commonly heard
proposal is that the [U.K.]
Government should make tax-
concessions to let the British
owners compete effectively with
cosmopolitan financiers.
This, however, apart from the
political repercussions, would
establish a precedent for other
industries.
“Another proposal <?ame
from Lord Simon, who
suggested that the traditional
maritime nations might form a
kind of ‘club.’ Members of
the club would operate a closed
market which excluded the
flag-of-convenience countries.
This drastic step would mean
the tuming-away of trade, a
measure of self-sacrifice which
would only be repaid if the
opposition could find no Joop-
holes in the scheme —but they
are specialists in finding loop-
holes.
“Another weak point is the
relatively tolerant attitude
adopted by the American
Government towards its own
citizens who use flags of con-
venience. If real unanimity
existed among the genuine
— N. Y. "Herald. Tribune”
“I THINK WE OUGHT TO PASS IT AROUND RIGHT
NOW.”
maritime nations, it might be
possible to do something, but
Britain seems to be the chief
sufferer in practice.”
World Unemployment
London “New Statesman”
comment on world-unemploy-
ment figures as at the beginning
of March:
“The figures are of value
rather as an indication of
trends than of movement in
actual numbers, for countries
compile their statistics on no
uniform or comparable basis.
“In most countries unemploy-
ment is higher in the latest
returns than it was a year
before. In France and Great
Britain figures shovy, in the one
case a slight fall and in the
other a slight increase, while
the U.S. shows more than twice
as many out of work than in
January last year, and Canada
also shows a big increase.
“Except in the U.S. and
Canada the figures do not yet
give evidence of really large-
scale recession ;Vbut the general
trend is clearly away from full
employment, except in West
Germany and Japan. In Italy,
though there has been a small
improvement, the level of un-
employment remains distress-
ingly high. In Great Britain,
where the aggregate increase
last month was still quite small,
there are pockets of serious
unemployment in such places
as South Wales, Merseyside
and parts Of Scotland, and
fresh evidence of so-called
‘redundancy’ is accumulating
almost every day.
“In the U.S. President Eisen-
hower has confidently predicted
a turn for the better by the
middle of the year ; but he has
produced no evidence, and
many people believe that he will
be proved wrong' unless the
Government resorts to definite
measures of reflation.
“Meanwhile West German
recovery has continued in face
of rising wages, and Japan has
been successfully pushing
exports at a great rate.
“What the figures fail to
tell is the sharp reaction of fall-
ing prices for primary products
on the economic position of the
underdeveloped countries;
this is bound to limit their
means of carrying through their
industrialisation plans and even
of keeping their increasing
populations fed where food-
stuffs have to be imported.”
The H-Bomb
London “Sunday Times”
comment on the proposition
that Britain “should have no
part or lot in nuclear prepara-
tions” :
“This is not the pacifist view,
that we should neither arm nor
fight at all; it is simply that
we should not arm or fight with
these particular weapon's.
“It either accepts the shelter
of the United States nuclear
power, while treating it as
immoral, or must be content
to face the withdrawal of that
power and our exposure to the
nuclear power of the Com-
munist bloc.
“In the one case it is dis-
honourable, in The other a
gross deception; for it mas-
querades as a way to lessen our
risks, whereas it enormously
increases them.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
School Discipline
As one with opportunities
to observe modem educational
methods, I must admit I
admire them: everything’s so
enlightened and compassionate
and so unlike what was
formerly practised when
pupils were expected to make
quite an effort to lay hold on
knowledge. Yet, despite all
the psychological understand-
ing and the rest, sometimes a
little cloud of doubt assails me
and I wonder whether there
isn’t, after all, something to
be said in favor of the “harsh,
unenlightened” instruction of
my childhood 50 years ago.
In those days we were
thrashed not only because of
disobedience, defiance and
general misbehavior, but also
because of ignorance.
Our teachers were
realists and perhaps
they may have been
wiser than the kindly
ones of today. Certainly
they were aware of a fact
to which a lot of us
shut our eyes these days :
that Nature herself punishes
us for ignorance of her laws.
Man’s hope of progressing
through life in a reasonably
comfortable manner depends on
his ability to learn : he can’t
afford to remain ignorant. He
must get hold of wisdom.
When I first attended school
I was terrified. My first school
was run by a lady of stern
demeanor who, in return for
the guinea-per-term paid by
our parents, literally knocked
into us (our ages ranged from
six to 13) an astonishing
amount of knowledge. She
had no assistants and, having
to provide all the teaching
single-handed, had no choice
but to be a strict disciplinarian.
The entire community believed
the punishments to be fitting,
and to avoid similar treatment
in the future we made a point
of learning what was expected
of us. At eight I’d already
mastered the valuable lesson
that ignorance is unlikely to
be excused.
Later, at other ' schools,
similar methods were the rule.
The cane was the order of the
day, and we didn’t dare let-
on to our parents when we’d
been caned ; if we did, we’d
probably get a further thrashing
and also have our pocket-
money docked. Undoubtedly,
this corporal punishment must
have done unspeakable things
to our psyches ; yet I retain no
resentment towards teacher or
parent.
I’m mostly in favor of the
modern, enlightened, compas-
sionate, learning - made - easy
type of education: all the
same, deep down inside, I’m
still glad I was subjected to
the old-fashioned training,
and I wonder at times if all
this teaqherly kindness is
actually as kindly as it appears.
There may be occasions when
"It all started as a joke, but now he cant undo it.”
we have to be cruel to be kind.
—Kenyas (N.S.W.).
Exploiting the Moon
Being undertaken by man, it
naturally follows that any
excursions to the moon will
have only one purpose in view
—to exploit that poor burnt-out
satellite which seems to
indicate minerals, there being
apparently no inhabitants to
rob. As a mineralogist I have
been sneaking a peek at the
orb.
I have decided that it is
more fluorescent than lumi-
nescent. Thus it would be
composed largely of willemite,
one of the zinc-oxides.
Now, the moon is 238,817
miles away from us and is
approximately a quarter our
size, so I would have a four-to-
one better chance on earth;
even with transport at 18,000
m.p.h. it would take over 13
hours for the trip ; and what
with exorbitant cost of fuel per
ton a mile, to say nothing of
burglarious Customs charges,
plus the knowledge that zinc
is £9O a ton, my interest is
waning.
I’ve decided to stop here and
poke around for the stuff. There
may be less of it here, but it’s
safer and surer to get. —
Semper Fidelis (N.S.W.).
Patrick White’s “Voss”
It was extremely disappoint-
ing to read Douglas Stewart’s
negative review of Voss (R.P.
B. 5/3/’5B).
Mr. Stewart is perfectly
entitled to find the idiom
uncongenial to his literary'
temperament. I do not question
his integrity nor the seriousness
of his approach. But, having
found himself unmoved by the
poetic mystique of Voss, he is
then hard put to explain why
every serious major literary
critic of England, Europe and
America found it an exciting
and world-significant work of
art -rather than a verbal fuddle.
Mr. Stewart’s explanation is
shockingly ingenuous: those
critics who can give a respon-
sible assessment of Sartre,
Camus, Faulkner, Nabokov or
Moravia go right off the rails,
all of them, when they deal
with the literary products of
Australia.
This sort of reasoning won’t
do. One comes across pro-
vincial literary critics writing
the same things about the
prose of William Faulkner in
America, but a larger criticism
is quite surely establishing
Faulkner among the greatest
novelists of the century.
I would suggest that the
problem posed by the overseas
enthusiasm and the Australian
indifference to Voss be
approached from a more
sensible direction. Rather than
think that everyone is out of
step but the local boys, it would
be better to consider seriously
if Australian literary taste, and
the criticism that forms it, has
not developed along narrow
lines. Australian fiction has
developed along the pedestrian
lines that stemmed from Vic-
torian realism, and anything
which diverges from this flatly
respectable realism is prone to
be regarded as aberrant.
The daily task of the Aus-
tralian literary critic has been
to assess the refinements that
have occurred within this
realism. Because the Australian
novel is almost wholly realistic,
critics here have lost touch
with, and lost their taste for, the
more sublime and imaginative
forms of the novel. It is possible
that Mr. Stewart would respond
to Dickens but feel out of the
element to which he is habitu-
ated in dealing with the final
volume of Proust, or i The
Brothers Karamazov, or the
cosmic symbolism of Moby
Dick, as well as Voss. In short,
rather than have it that over-
seas critics are universally in
error over Voss, could it not be
that Australian critics can only
deal with their own narrow and
provincial concept of the novel?
This is rather cruelly put, as
the possibility is, in general, less
applicable to Bulletin criti-
cisms than most others. But in
this case Mr. Stewart has gone
on to some shuddering state-
ments. Voss is likened to the
ethos of Salvador Dali and
has the qualities of a surrealistic
poem. This suggestion must be
the product of a well-inten-
tioned innocence. Dali’s paint-
ing is held in the lowest repute
in contemporary art, and
surrealist in these days is con-
sidered a descriptive term for
meaningless twaddle. Mr.
Stewart obviously doesn’t
intend the insulting denigration
of Voss which his analogy
most certainly implies. But it
does point to a dated know-
ledge of critical opinion in the
imaginative field!
I am well aware that it is
possible to say “tu quoque” to
this argument. The possibility
has occurred to me that my
deep pleasure in Voss argues a
chronic romanticism in myself
and in all the European critics.
Honest discussion is the only
way to work through to some
kind of answer. It is certainly


Faith lit the
Future
It is remarkable how memory forms its own
pattern of a personality or an event.
My oWn recollection of the visit of the Queen
Mother to Australia will always be stamped with
that broadcast to the nation in which Her Majesty
spoke of the supreme importance of family life.
You will remember how she referred to a
happy home as the one sure foundation on which
our young people can build their future in an age
of uncertainty and shifting values; to their resultant
strength and integrity as ensuring the greatness of
Australia in the years ahead.
Had the Queen Mother done nothing Slse but
deliver this message—but she did very much more
in the time she spent amongst us—her presence in
this country would have accomplished a noble
purpose.
For she was pointing to the very centre of our
hopes of standing in quality among the people of
the earth.
Given good homes; happy homes; homes in
which the children are nurtured in the disciplines
as well as the freedoms, and in which spiritual
training is imparted to match the material learning
that comes to them in the schools, there is no ceiling
to those heights of achievement to which Australians
as a people can rise.
We have in gift a glorious country; but it is
more important that we have the living power that
will make it great—and the source of that is in its
family homes.
Behind this again there is a deeper thought:
The essence of family life is in close and generous
affection —and the best of love, as we know, brings
its share of suffering and sacrifice.
Here, then, is where Faith enters to raise the
role of a father and a mother to missionary heights.
The parents of Australia’s children are more
than guardians of the family unit in this “age of
shifting values”: they have the responsibility of
moulding the character and charging the* moral
power of a whole race.
most unsatisfactory to have the
world acclaiming a great Aus-
tralian achievement while Aus-
tralia sullenly rejects the com-
pliment,—Max Harris (S.A.).
Australia and' the U.S.
“H.A.F.’s” friends (B.
22/1 /’59), who in the U.S. live
in luxury, certainly must be
on salaries well above the
acknowledged average 80
dollars wmch shrinks to a
take-home 73| dollars after
tax-deductions. If they aren’t,
how can he explain the com-
fort they enjoy on this $3809
p.a. when it is clear that two
retired people require $l7OO to
provide minimum needs?
There are, of course, very
many Australians drawing
wages considerably in excess
of the £l4 1 regard as
equivalent to the $73.25, The
B.H.P. last year paid an
average of £lOOO to its 35,000
employees.
The U.S. admittedly has, pro
rata, more coal, steel and
power, and more and cheaper
cars than we in Australia ; it
also has over 30 million
people living in conditions of
which Governor Harriman of
New York says minimum
health and decent living-
standards cannot be main-
tained. If Australia were in
equally bad economic shape it
would have, in proportion,
nearly two million people liv-
ing in such conditions.
Australia’s nearest approach
to such a class consists of
about half-a-million age- and
invalid - pensioners whose
married couples draw £455 p.a.
That is at least sufficient to
maintain health and provide
most necessities. The enorm-
ous amount of poverty which
exists in the U.S., despite its
wealth and luxury, has no
counterpart here.
If “H.A.F.” considers the
matter properly he will find
that his hymn of praise should
really be addressed to Aus-
tralia.— L. W. Ferres (S.A.).
“Revolt at the Pig-trough”
I note one discrepancy in
“II Pappagallo’s” article (B.
19/2/’5B). Clubs still have a
big advantage over the hotels
in Sunday trading. In several
N. S. Wales clubs I have
attended Sunday is their busiest
day.
Another point missed by
“II P.” is the prostitution of the
words “soldiers’,” “memorial,”
etc., in some clubs. Some clubs
are run by sub-branches of the
R.S.L. Others use titles such
as “Bullswool and District
Services Memorial Club” ; they
are in no way connected with
the R.S.L., and in some
instances have as many
associate-members as ex-service
members. Your contributor
is correct in saying they are,
“whatever they are called, only
gambling-joints”; but he omits
to state that numbers of them
are soldiers’ clubs in name
only.—P. C. M. (S.A.).
“Filter” Folly
Few smokers admit publicly
they are scared by recent dis-
closures—but there has been
a remarkable trend * towards
“filter-tip” cigarettes in the
U.S., Australia and elsewhere.
Smokers apparently persuade
or delude themselves into a
belief that such cigarettes are
safer, and at the same time the
companies save up to half-an-
inch of tobacco in each
cigarette and replace it with
“specially-imported” tissue.
In the U.S. last year filter-
cigarette sales took 40 per
cent, of the market, compared
with 1.5 per cent, only six
years ago. In Minnesota a
State Government sub-com-
mittee investigating the alleged
benefits of filters reported that
in most cases a smoker was
“getting as much or' more
nicotine and, tar from the filter
than he would get from the
regular cigarette.”
The Government Opera-
tions sub-committee in the
same State asserted that the
U.S. Federal Trade Com-
mission had failed to show
vigor and diligence in prevent-
ing deceptive practices and
misleading advertising.
Perhaps the medical
authorities who have been con-
ducting inquiries calmly and
judicially into the accusations
against smoking will devote
some attention to filters. If
they could find an effective
filter which would remove
dangers without detracting
from the pleasures of smoking,
then everyone concerned
would be much happier.—
Well-cured (N.S.W.).
Municipalised Hire-
purchase
As local-government rates
can scarcely go much higher it
is time shire- and municipal-
councils looked around for
additional means of raising
revenue. I suggest they should
enter two fields which at
present yield handsome profits
to private concerns hire-
purchase and fire-insurance.
The entry of the trading-
banks into hire-purchase and


4
BUILD I BETTER
FARM FENCE *ITI
A HAMMER
BL OtY BETA/ATS
THE W/RE
THE STEEL FENCE DROPPER
WITH THE LOG
PARTICULARLY SUITED FOR INTERMEDIATE SUPPORT FOR
EITHER MESH TYPE OR PLAIN WIRE FENCES
IDEAL FOR REPLACING BURNT OR ROTTED WOODEN
DROPPERS
RUGGED STRENGTH AND LIGHT WEIGHT
LUG SPACINGS TO SUIT ALL TYPES OF FENCING
COATED WITH WEATHER-RESISTANT PAINT
SUPPLIED IN LENGTHS OF 4' 6", 4' 0", 3' 9"
Solely manufactured by
STEEL MILLS LTD.
STEEL ROLLERS AND MERCHANTS
SHADDOCK AVENUE, VILLAWOOD, N.S.W.
PHONES: UB 2767, UB 3394, UB 3395
the handsome profits in that
field, are surely the answer to
those who have been predict-
ing that the bottom would fall
out of the h.-p. x business.
In country districts there is
an ever-growing demand for
hire-purchase facilities; and
in most cases these are sup-
plied by metropolitan con-
cerns. Why shouldn’t shire-
and municipal-councils reap
the profits made by these
private operators? It may be
that the Local Government
Acts make no provision for
this ; but surely a Government
which runs mammoth lotteries
to finance the building of an
opera- house would not
hesitate to give 1.-g. bodies the
power to finance the purchase
of television- and radio-sets,
washing-machines, refrigera-
tors and cars from local
traders, and use the profits to
improve their services to rate-
payers.
As to fire-insurance, there is
the added inducement that a
council which held an insur-
ance-cover over properties in
its area would take
special pains to see that fire-
risks were reduced to a mini-
mum. Councils are in a
position to do this, whereas
private insurance-companies
are not. Council property is
now notoriously neglected as
far as fire-risks are concerned ;
and few councils use their
powers to compel owners of
vacant land in residential areas
to keep-down the grass and
rubbish which constitute the
main fire-risk. “M. F, D.”
(N.S.W.).
Migration
If most southern Europeans
who have settled on the land
in Australia are engaged in
fruit - growing, viticulture,
cane-growing, and market-
gardening in well-developed
areas, the explanation is
simple (B. 5/3/’5B).
Australia’s southern
European immigration has
hitherto been mainly from
Italy and Greece, where most
of those branches of agri-
culture are extensively
practised. Most settlers from
those parts did not come here
until the days of cheap land
were virtually over. Coming
from lands where peasant
land-hunger is strong, they
have found the way to owner-
ship in these forms of farming
rather than by taking jobs on
outback sheep - stations or
cattle-runs.
In the past one southern
European people rivalled
those of British stock in
pioneering achievement —the
Spaniards. Migrants from the
Basque country in Northern
Spain and adjacent areas
of south-west France are in
strong demand as shepherds
in both Latin-America and
the U.S. Australia has just
begun to tap this source for
outback labor. Recently the
first shipload of Spanish agri-
cultural workers, mostly
Basques, sailed for North
Queensland.
It is idle to hope that many
settlers from the British Isles
will be attracted to our less-
developed areas. Most modern
Britons are urban dwellers ;
they naturally prefer the same
environment when they
migrate. Even the rural-
dweller often finds the Aus-
tralian countryside uncom-
fortable. A majority of British
country men enjoy semi-
suburban living conditions,
with a bus-route past the
door, a substantial town a few
miles away, and many of the
household amenities that in
Australia are generally found
only in large-sized towns.
In the 19th century there
was extensive migration from
rural Britain to the colonies
and U.S., because of consider-
able unemployment and low
wages. Living conditions were
also more primitive, and the
lure of cheap land in the new
countries was a powerful urge.
Nowadays there is a shortage
of farm labor in Britain.
Wages are high ; rural trades-
men also have more work
than they can cope with. —
Cunedda (N.S.W.).


THE ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
/
28th March to Bth April, 1958
Don’t miss the greatest spectacle of the year. At the 1958 Royal.
Easter Show you will see our finest stock on parade, cattle judging, wood
chopping, primary and secondary industry exhibits and a
feature-packed programme of special ring events, including trotting.
Come to the 1958 Royal Easter Show at the Showground, Sydney.
Ei
nights
8
&
dots
10
&


GETTING READY
for
THE SHOW
Above, left to right: (1) Mescal, the American quarter-horse, at Retford
Park, Bowral. This bronze stallion is one of the few of his breed in Australia.
Said to be superb stock-horses, they are very fast over a quarter-mile —hence
the name , (2) These Shorthorns from Coombing Park, Carcoar, will face
the judges in Sydney. Left to right: Coombing Glory (held by Mrs. M.
Head), Coombing Cormorne (S. G. Bell), Coombing Amnesty (A. Bright),
Coombing Printer (E. King, manager of Coombing Park), and Coombing'
Oxford 2nd (Miss P. King). The two bulls on the right got into holts just
after this, photograph was taken. (3) Some of the press-party looking at the
Ayrshire show-team at Woodside Park, Berry. (4) Another imported stallion
at Retford Park —the Welsh pony Coed Coch Siabod, champion at the
English Royal Show.
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
IT was a sort of grand tour, by courtesy of the R.A.S. and Shell, taking in a
sizeable sweep of the N.S.W. south coast, south-west slopes and central west
and a number of leading studs, chiefly cattle-studs, in four very full days.
Tourists were a press, radio, TV and newsred party, tactfully shepherded
by Hugh Ross, councillor, and Gilbert Mant, publicity officer, for the R.A.S., and
Norman Moore representing the concerns that picked up the check —the Shell
Company of Australia and Shell Chemical (Aust.) Pty., Ltd. Vehicle, a Pioneer
bus, driven by John Austin, whose fund of cheerfulness and information was
undiminished at the end of some 700 miles of strenuous travel; in fact, at Orange,
where we were all interviewed by the local press, John told a reporter that he
would like to make a similar trip “every week.”
Most of us, by the time we had reached Orange, had found we were made of
less heroic stuff. But, despite some travel-weariness, inevitable in such a crowded
programme, and a certain restiveness among the daily-paper boys when no news-
stories broke to placate their masters back in Sydney—no rape, no murder; no one,
even, gored by a bull —a good time was had, I think, by all.
IT was a hopscotch parade of notable
livestock, long hops of country in
between, stately homesteads, refresh-
ments on a series of lawns, under a
variety of trees, against a changing
pattern of magnificent gardens, a fleeting
procession of pretty girls—duly recorded
for posterity by the busy cameras —civic
receptions and local history thrown in;
even, for those who cared for that sort
of thing, serious conversation. In short,
an interesting section of the N. S. Wales
countryside, not quite typical, perhaps—
that was not the intention—but opening-
up a wider horizon than the smoke-
smeared one habitually seen by a majority
of the tourists.
The object was to give the press, radio,
TV and newsreel people (and, more
importantly, their reading, listening and
viewing public) an idea of what goes on
in the preparation of stock for the Royal
Easter Show, which kicks-off in Sydney
on March 28 and extends over 10 days
and eight nights: a boudoir view, so to
speak, of the sleek beauties of the studs
before they came to town, groomed to a
hair, the substantial fruit of months of


careful feeding and handling, of years
of skilled breeding and selection, to go
through their paces in the more formal
atmosphere of the judging-rings at the
tail-end of this week, extending into
next week, and later to be seen by
thousands in that great drawing-roopi of
deportment and lineage, the grand-
parade . . . One aspect of the background
of the Royal Easter Show, in which
there will be over 30,000 exhibits of all
classes of stock (except sheep) and agri-
cultural produce ; and an interesting and
important one.
We saw rather more than that in our
four days ; but that was the stated object
of the tour.
From the point of view of publicity
for the Show the tour was a brilliant
success. Apart from A.8.C., commercial
radio-station, TV and newsreel coverage,
and the reports which will be sent over-
seas by such concerns as the Common-
wealth Information Bureau George
Farwell was the Bureau man on the trip
—there were journalists and photo-
graphers from a variety of papers,
national, agricultural and metropolitan,
including women’s papers. Certainly no
other Sydney Royal has had such pre-
Show publicity . . .
'T'HE bus left Phillip Street, Sydney,
around seven-o’clock on the Monday
morning, the day already aglow with the
promise of a hot drive. Through the city,
through the southern suburbs—driving
west, north or south these days one is
struck by the sprawling spread of outer-
Sydney, the mushroom-growth of new
suburbs ; too big for comfort; too big,
perhaps, for security and healthy all-
round development—the coach-captain,
over the public-address system, saying
a few words about the etymology of
such place-names as Tom Ugly’s Point.
Most of us, after an early start from
the variety of queer places where
journalists live, and with that reluctance
to be educated, which is, perhaps, the
stamp of our trade, slept; a recreation
at which we became quite adept, between
stops, as the tour progressed . . .
South through Wollongong, and
through lush pastures and little holdings
with the stone fences built laboriously a
long time ago, as we measure time in
this country: bringing to mind Eugene
O’Neill’s play, “Desire Under the Elms”;
oddly, because this is not the harsh New
England of America but the soft N. S.
Wales south coast. Perhaps because this
is old farming country ; or because it is
dairying country, and, despite all sorts
of streamlined techniques, and plenty of
evidence to the contrary of recent years,
axertain tradition of austerity clings to
dairyfarming; and the men who first
raised those fences, like O’Neill’s New
England farmer, Ephraim Cabot, were
probably hard men . .
In contrast to this, a rash of estate-
agents’ notices, announcing the sub-
division of estates, the march of
suburbia ; a pity. Unless, of course, you
want to live here. There are worse
places to live. The timbered range
scarred, here and there, by mines, but
against the green curve of rolling hills
on the other side of the road, a stone’s-
throw away from the grazing cows, the
boom and blue glitter of the sea. You
could milk your cows and wander down
to the beach for a swim, or wet a line
from that hanging rock . . .
South again, and those banners of
Greater Sydney, the estate-agents’ notices,
left behind, and through the same sort
of rich country—dark, humus-bound soil
and green pasture —to Woodside Park,
about a mile from Berry on the Sydney
Below, left to right: (1) One of the many fine homesteads visited on the
tour —built on Retford Park, the Sam Hordern property, in 1887. (2) Red
Poll cows and calves at Bundaleer, Tar ana, the J. W. and G. C. Perry
property. (3) Airland loading-unit in action on Dick Gordon's property,
Young.


WOOL PRESSES
WE CAN SUPPLY ALL YOUR NEEDS
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
THE
NEW AJAX
MODEL B
By use of an ingenious framework the
New Model B does away with the hard
work of lifting the monkey in and out
of the press, thus making it easier and
faster.
In effect, the framework acts as, a false
top box and allows a greater topping up
of the wool —so much less wool to tramp.
mm
, tx- v
4.i,
M
EVERYMAN’S WOOL PRESS
IS
THE AJAX MAJOR
Two Box ALL STEEL Woolpress
Already acclaimed by many hundreds of Australiaii
graziers from two to twelve stand sheds. You will be
proud to show the good heavy square bales from this
press. (One man, 35 to 45 bales per day; two men,
65 to 70 or more.)
• Completely Portable on its own Two Wheels.
9 New Patent Hoist for Effortless Lifting.
9 Captive Monkey always in top box Eliminates
Lifting.
0 New Two Speed Action on Roller Bearings
Faster and Easier Pressing.
AJAX
THE FIRST CHOICE
FOR YEARS OF MANY
THOUSANDS OF
AUSTRALIAN SHEEP
FARMERS
Ask Your WOOLHOUSE or MACHINERY MERCHANT
AGENTS IN ALL STATES
Manufacturers and Patentees: DONALD PATENTS LTD., 390 GLENMORE RD., PADDINGTON, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


for maximum control of
in sheep of all ages
First of the liquid phenothia-
zine drenches . . . tested and
checked over many years’
Australia-wide use... Elliotts
PHENZEEN PLUS en-
sures the fullest effective
control, the greatest con-
venience in drenching,
that can be achieved with
phenothiazine.
DRENCH WITH
m
m
If you prefer
. . . order
Elliotts PHENZEEN (Pheno-
thiazine Powder) in the
same fine particle size, sup-
plied in cans, ready-to-m?x.
ELLIOTTS RURAL LABORATORIES
A DIVISION OF D.H.A. (CHEMICALS) PTY-. LIMITED
side, the property of F. A.
Mclntosh and son.
This is one of the top dairy-
ing properties in Australia—
-295 acres of flat and undulat-
ing country, carrying 210 to
220 head of stock all the year
round, the cows producing a
gallon of milk per acre per
day. In 1937, when Fred Mc-
Intosh came here from
Narellan, bringing half the
Denbigh herd—the other half
going to his brother, another
notable breeder of Ayrshires—
its carrying-capacity was 35 to
45 head. The property is
divided into 32 paddocks, with
substantial farm-buildings, in-
cluding a hay-shed with a
24,000-bale capacity. Since
1945 a good deal of pasture-
improvement work has been
done on the property, and, in
a normal season, around 12,000
bales of meadow-hay are cut
from the paddocks. But, in
good season or bad, the milk-
ing herd get concentrates.
Woodside Park won the N. S.
Wales dairyfarm championship
in 1954.
HTHE Mclntoshes, father and
son, with a small grand-
son hovering in the background,
were waiting for us as we de-
bussed. They had held back a
few cows from the morning
milking for demonstration
purposes, and had the show-
team tethered to the wooden
rail of a nearby small paddock,
or big yard.
Fred Mclntosh, the father, is
an active-looking 54, with keen
grey eyes in a brown, weathered
face and a periodic, wide grin.
He is an R.A.S. councillor, and,
like quite a few R.A.S. coun-
cillors —there must be some-
thing invigorating in the air
of Parramatta—went to The
King’s School. He comes from
a famous farming family, and
one with close ties with the
R.A.S. His father and grand-
father were supporters of the
Sydney Show, he has been to
every Show since he was an
infant, and his son Bruce (who
has judged Ayrshires inter-
state and at country shows, and
is a keen Junior Farmer super-
visor), and now his grandson,
are carrying on the good tradi-
tion.
Over to the dairy, where the
exasperated cows were shooed
in from the yards and had
the machines put on them.
They came willingly enough,
ordinarily, Fred Mclntosh
explained, but their routine had
been upset, and they were a
bit flustered. They settled down
quickly, though* feeding in the
bails. Machine - stripping.
Everything timed to the second,
everything, after the initial
misunderstanding and, to
complicate matters, the milk-
tester had arrived that morning
■—flowing smoothly. In short,
an efficient dairy in operation
... Amid all this streamlined
efficiency it was almost a relief
to note that cows are still
incontinent in their habits. A
few years out of sight and touch
of the animals, sitting in an
office reading facts and statistics
about them, one is in danger
of creating a sort of abstract
cow, a de-bovinised monster of
nutritional intake and produc-
tion, forgetting their imperative
mannerisms, and the wet taste
of a tail slapped smartly across
the face on a chilly morning
. . . Dairying, if it has its
rewards for the efficient, also
has its penalties, as a glance at
the poddies over the way
reminds one . . .
But this is a highly efficient
dairying property, with a stud
herd. Herd-recording has been
carried out continuously since
War 11, and in 1956-57 the
Woodside Park herd was top
herd of the State (all breeds)
with an average yield of 4191 b.
of butterfat per cow; Wood-
-side Park cows were also
individually placed first and
second in the State the same
year.
The stud has won many
championships at Sydney Royal
and country shows, and F. A.
Mclntosh has been a vice-
president of the Ayrshire Cattle
Herd-book Society of Aus-
tralasia (N.S.W. branch) since
1942. Notable importations to
the stud include Castle Clan-
yard Come Along, bought in
Scotland in 1946 and considered
one of the best dairy sires ever
to be used in this country,
Bargower Silver Fame, and the
present senior sire, brought!
out in 1954, Cochrane's
Supreme. When we met him
Cochrane’s Supreme had
recently been dehorned for
safety—and was wearing a kind
of beret to protect the wounds.
TTIE cows had dabs of paint
A on their horns, different
colors for different levels of
production, so that each cow’s
ration of tucker can be known
at a glance. What Fred Mc-
Intosh doesn’t know about the
feeding of dairy-cows probably
isn’t worth knowing. He is one
of the men responsible for
Professor Boutflour, the famous
principal of the Royal Agricul-
tural College, Cirencester,
being invited here by the Milk
Board in 1955, and he applied
Boutflour’s methods here very
early in the piece. It would
have been nice to hear his
views, in detail, on “steaming-
up,” pre-calving milking, and
the economics of feeding under
Australian conditions, but time
was running short, there were
many questions—some of them,
understandably enough, pretty
obvious ones —and the show
team had to be inspected and
photographed. But he had some
interesting things to say about
progeny -testing, artificial-
insemination, and the deep-
freezing of semen. He con-
sidered the A.I. station at Berry
(run by the Milk Board) equal
to anything of the kind in the
world —“And I’ve seen most of
them” —and made no bones
about his belief that artificial-
insemination would make a
great contribution to the im-
provement of Australian dairy-
herds.
Then tea and a variety of
rich food under the trees, in
front of the fine homestead,
built in 1920, and into the bus
and away, up through the
Kangaroo Valley to Retford
Park, Sam Hordern’s property
at Bowral.
r T''HIS is different country
again, 2400 ft. above sea-
level, parklike, almost English.
Down a long avenue of pines,
past houses, buildings, yards,
and around to the back of the
two-story stone house, built in
1887. Samuel Hordern bought
the property in 1880, when it
was mostly bush; Samuel
Hordern II (later Sir Samuel,
president of the R.A.S. for
many years, and father of the
Samuel Hordern who is now
president of the R.A.S.) took
it over in 1910.
Samuel Hordern 111 (it is
impossible to get around this
method of designation), that is
to say, the president of the
R.A.S., wasn't at home, but his
son, another Sam, aged 21, and
Ken Armstrong, manager of
Retford Park, were on deck
to receive boarders; treating
them, in the short time avail-
able, most hospitably. As,
indeed, we were treated at every
place we visited. It seems
churlish to write-off an amount
of generous hospitality in a
general sentence, but the


A place for
EVERY fleece...
and EVERY fleece
in its piace
This man knows wool ... his skill
and judgment in handling
every fleece ensures that your
wool sells at its true value
&
IJ'l
m
2%
yy/Aj
Wr^
&
f'9,
He’s a man who has spent his life in the wool game, developing
skill and judgment to ensure that your wool sells at its true
value.
He is one of the reasons that you will find your neighbour
recommends the Jimac Wool Pool . . . there is a bin for every
type, and our classer is one of a team of true “professionals”
who put that little extra into their jobs so that wool prepared
for our clients brings the maximum return when sold through
a broker.
IOOd IOOM
mm
BRIDGLAND BROWN PTY. LTD.
174-190 DOWLING ST., EAST SYDNEY, and HANNEL ST.. WICKHAM, NEWCASTLE


NOTHING EQUALS
Warmray's Amazing Efficiency!
warmra
TRIPLE-PURPOSE, SLOW-COMBUSTION,
AIR-CONDITIONING HOME HEATER
Model No. 3
Super De Luxe
•fa Large Capacity
Over 8,000
cu. ft.
■fa Special large
firebox for long
burning with-
out attention.
★ Extra large
hotplate for
cooking.
Installs in Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray"
ACTUALLY COSTS NOTHING
Model No. 2A
if Heats over 5,000 cubic
feet.
if Modern artistic cream
porcelain enamel on
solid cast iron.
if No dirty fireplaces to
clean.
if Pull view of blazing
Are through open or
closed front.
if Lights in seconds,
warms entire room in
minutes.
if No smoke or dust to
soil furnishings.
★ Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
ofWarmray
bur de \ihos trd
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL—REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
Arn "mmm’^—mmmmm—mJL
WARM RAY
HEATING TUBES
The secret of Warmray’s Amazing Efficiency is the
Patented Heating Tubes (illustrated above), which
are built into the firebox. The air in the room
passes through these tubes continuously, thus
maintaining an even warmth in every part of the
room.
if BURNS ALL SOLID FUELS
WOOD IS CLEANEST.
See the Warmray at
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD.
Stand No. 43
Machinery Avenue, Showground.
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors
Challls House, Martin Place, Sydney
Telegrams: “Warmray.” BL 2317
alternative is a Quentin
Reynolds-like narrative of food
and drink.
WE filed out of the bus into
a golden cloud of
Labradors, a circus of leaping
whippets; or so it seemed.
Behind these canine acro-
batics our hosts, and beyond
them the baronial homestead.
This charming introduction to
Retford Park was, I am told,
typ'cak When Sam 111 is home,
my informant said, there are
even more dogl - golden
Labradors spilling out of his
jeep, packs of whippets racing
after it. Sam IV, a slim, brown
young man with a ready grin,
if he didn’t produce anything
quite up to this standard of
entertainment, had a sizeable
troop of dogs around him.
Every now and again, during
our brief inspection—he was
explaining the layout of the
stables, perhaps, or the pedigree
of an animal—he would absent-
mindedly cup his arms and a
whippet would leap neatly into
them.
The profusion of dogs seems
characteristic, too, of some-
thing else about Retford Park
—an almost bewildering variety
of pedigreed stock. It is not one
studj but Here, on 1760
, ,
one can see purebred
Shorthorns, Santa Gertrudis,
Devon and Jersey cattle;
thoroughbred horses, Welsh
ponies, Welsh mountain ponies
(there’s a difference),; and, when
we were there, an American
quarter-horse; Southdown and
Rye land sheep; pigs; golden
Labradors and whippets ; they
A NATIONAL SHOW
By Lieutenant-General Sir Frank Berryman.
Director of the Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W.
TTHE 1958 Royal Easter Show, which opens on March 28, is
much more than a Sydney Show. It can fairly claim to
be a national Show,'and has, furthermore, an international
reputation.
This has not come about by accident. It has constantly
been the aim of the Council of the Royal Agricultural
Society of N.S.W. to make the Royal Easter Show a
national Show.
At Sydney we have enjoyed the services of famous
judges from Britain, the United States, Canada, New
Zealand and other countries, in such sections as horses,
cattle and dogs. This year we have four overseas judges, as
well as 14 judges drawn from Victoria, Queensland and
South Australia.
Sydney Royal has long been the Mecca of breeders,
not only in N.S.W. but in most of the other Australian
States. Every State ip the Commonwealth is represented in
various sections at this 1958 Royal Easter Show.
The Royal Easter Show has become an important
market for stud-animals of many kinds, and breeders
arrange their breeding programmes to coincide with it. A
win at Sydney adds to the reputation and value of an
animal both here and overseas.
The Royal Easter Show takes-on a national aspect also
by the fact that many breed-societies and similar bodies
hold their annual meetings and conferences during the
currency of the Show. These meetings bring noted breeders
and agricultural leaders to Sydney to discuss their common
problems. Many of the meetings are held at the Showground
itself.
In the industrial field we are pleased that this year the
Australian oil-industry is exhibiting at the Royal Easter
Show. It is interesting to note, in this regard, that next
year is the centenary of the discovery of oil.
The 1958 Royal Easter Show, I believe, will be one of
the best my society has ever staged. Entries are very high,
and, as I said before, they have come from every State in
the Commonwealth.
Given fine weather, the 1958 Show should be one that
city and country people will remember for a long time to
come.


The Wealth of
New South Wales
ON SHOW 28th MARCH TO Bth APRaL
•Ptr
OME ALONG and see how well our State has invested in
Australia’s future . . . you’ll feel a sense of pride among
the satisfying fruits of another year’s labour in field and farm.
We enjoy this time of year best of all, because it enables us to
see out-of-town friends and also to make new ones. Generations
of farmers have come to rely on The National Bank for its
shrewd and friendly advice, and to value the personal, helpful
interest The National takes in their affairs. Perhaps that’s why so
many country people prefer the services of The National Bank.
The Bank will conduct an Agency in the Hordern Pavilion at the Show Grounds
Supporting Community Interests
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(INC. IN VIC.)
4380/ fj/s*
even breed poultry and
pheasants.
ALL of which recalls nothing
so much as the early breed-
ing - activities of Anthony
Hordern, snr., brother of the
late Sir Samuel Hordern and
uncle of Sam 111. Although by
no means retired from breeding
—his Mungadal Merinos won
the Stonehaven Cup at the Syd-
ney Sheep Show a couple of
years back, and his Milton Park
Poll Herefords and Wingadal
Romney Marsh are very much
on the map—the range of his
breeding in the past was in
a class of its own. His early
importations of Beef Short-
horns changed the breed • in
Australia—here one need only
mention Duke' of Hampton,
Masterkey, Doune Monarch,
and Martha the Fifth—but he
also bred Poll Shorthorns,
Guernseys (when this stud was
dispersed most of the stock
went to the famous Payne stud,
in Victoria), Clydesdales, polo •
ponies, and Welsh ponies. His
imported stallion, Greylight,
was probably the most famous
Welsh pony in the world. And
he bred budgerigars, racing-
pigeons, canaries, and Man-
darin ducks.
There is something fascinat-
ing about the mere contempla-
tion of breeding on this scale.
It reminds one of the origins
of the English thoroughbred,
of the Godolphin and Darley
Arabians, the Eastern mares
imported by the Stuarts, and a
host of English improvers of
livestock and amateurs of
breeds ... As other wealthy
men of taste buy works of art,
the Horderns, apparently, buy
pedigreed animals whole
flocks and herds of-them—and
the country at large is the
ultimate gainer. I don’t wish to
imply that this is mere
amateurism obviously such
big concerns must be run on
businesslike lines, or they would
swallow-up fortunes in a matter
of days—but the comparison
with the connoisseur, the col-
lector, is irresistible. Retford
Park is, in its way, a work of
art.
Although Round Hill, out
Culcairn way, didn’t come
within our circuit, one can
hardly discuss the Horderns and
Shorthorns without mentioning
Round Hill. There have been
two outstanding importations
of Shorthorns within the last
few years Calrossie Para-
mount, for Greenwich Park,
and Erimus Intrepid, supreme
grand-champion bull of the
1955 Royal Show of England,
bought by Anthony Hordern,
jnr., for his Round Hill stud.
The progeny of both these
bulls will be seen at this year’s
Sydney Royal.
Where the Milton Park stud
left-off in the breeding of
ponies, Retford Park has taken
over. The Welsh-pony stud is
founded on Greylight blood,
in a highly intricate pattern of
inbreeding. All the mares,
apparently, going back to Grey-
light and two mares, Topsy and
Little Queen. All this explained
at the stables, as, one after the
other, the sturdy, symmetrical,
groomed-to-a-polish ponies
were led out for inspection:
“That mare, for instance, has
nine crosses to Greylight.” Then
the 12-year-old grey stallion,
Coed Coch Siabod, champion
at the English Royal Show in
1952, stepping proudly and
firmly from his stable, neck
arched. And the Welsh Moun-
tain Ponies —the little fellows
under 12 hands—headed by the
imported stallion, Penarth Tit-
light. We had to go inside the
circular, roofed, exercise-yard
to meet Flashlight 11, 27 years
old —a great age for a horse—
and in very fair nick. In fact,
apart from the old stallion’s
collapsed crest, it would be
hard to guess that he was any-'
thing near that age .
Of the Retford Park
thoroughbreds, the great names
of the past are Artilleryman,
Violincello, Crescendo and
Bronzino. The small stud is
now headed by Wirralie, by
Midstream (imp.).
We moved on to have a look
at the beef-cattle, the show
teams. The Beef Shorthorn
stud is building on the old


For Speed and Service...
, - -
f ## /
.-' - Z.t' >
, I i r :
'; x ' >4 >; ' x ’ II >'
••"• * '•■ « .m |sH
*. 1 I gESSSIS 51 | ! ™
i >v'
' ■ ■>■■”
,sw«
wamm
Krmmu**.
~«*V^
*&S '-
1
WILHELMSEN LINE
Regular service to the Middle East, the Continent
and Scandinavia.
Refrigerated as well as general cargo space avail-
able. Limited first-class passenger accommodation
available in double- or single-deck cabins.
AMERICAN PIONEER LINE
Rapid service of modern refrigerated Cargo'
Vessels from Australia to U.S. and Canadian
Atlantic Coast Ports, and Trinidad via Panama
Canal. Vessels carry a limited number oi*
passengers in saloon accommodation.
AUSTRALIA-WEST PACIFIC LINE
Serving Manila, Hong Kong and main Japanese
ports —returning via Shanghai, New Guinea and
Island Ports. Regular sailings by Milos, Delos,
Aros and Citos with general and refrigerated
space available; also special mechanical ventila-
tion for Fruit, Vegetables, etc., in ’tween decks.
Luxurious passenger accommodation in single-
or two-berth cabins available northbound.
Fly SAS
SCANDINAVIAN AIRLINES SYSTEM
ON THE NEW POLAR SHORT-CUT ROUTE TO EUROPE
SAS now operate the ONLY route over the North Pole itself.
• Los Angeles to Europe—B flights weekly.
• Tokyo to Europe—3 flights weekly.
SAVE 20 HOURS ON THIS NEW POLAR SHORT-CUT.
DC-7C AIR LINERS IN THE FAR EAST.
SAS now is first in offering magnificent Douglas DC-7C airliners
in the Far East on their Southern Route to Europe.
For full details contact your travel agent or . . .
££M!)£m¥MWAmilWff MiltM
For full details concerning the above contact your local agent or
WILH. WILHELMSEM AGENCY Ptv. Ltd.,
66 Pitt Street, Sydne y—BU 630]
51 William Street, Melbourne—MA 3031


GENUINE TILLEY
SPARE PARTS
FOR LAMPS, LANTERNS, IRONS
AND RADIATORS
Although Import Restrictions may
)j■ - >
make it more difficult to obtain
ALL the Tilley Spares you need,
limited supplies of every item
ARE available. If your Store-Keeper
is temporarily unable to
help you, ask him to contact
the Australian Agents :
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD.
• > •_ u
1092 Mt. Alexander Road, Essendon, W. 5. Victoria
Phone: FX 4747
Sittyton strain, through the use
of 1 Cruggleton bulls from
Scotland. Sires in use are the
roan Cruggleton Robieson
(imp.) and the red Cruggleton
Aitken (imp.).
sire of the Devon stud is
Clampit Stockman (imp.). A
son and daughter of Clampit
Stockman were senior 'and
junior male champion , and
reserve senior and junior
champion female at last year’s
Sydney Royal.
There are Santa Gertrudis
cattle at Retford Park, too.
We learned that “many experi-
ments have been undertaken
proving this breed’s adaptability
and weight-gain propensities,”
but what this means, precisely,
isn’t clear. Santas seem to be
pretty adaptable, and there j.s
plenty of evidence of rapid
weight-gain, but Bowral’s
climate they get -severe
winters there —seems a bit
rugged for cattle bred originally
for their resistance to heat and
cattle-tick (from the Brahman
side) together with good meat-
qualities (from the Shorthorn),
Keirstone Shorthorns at Bundaleer.
under ordinary conditions of
management. I asked Ken
Armstrong how the Santa
Gertrudis cattle stood up to the
local conditions, and he said
“Well,” but didn’t go into
details. Possibly experiments
are still going on. We saw one
Santa Gertrudis, a cow 7 , and
she certainly looked in "good
order.
Ken Armstrong, who used
to manage Navua (in the
Richmond district, fronting
the Grose River) for Sir Archie
Howie, explained some of the
points of preparing beef-cattle
for showing; grooming;
stabling; the difficulty of,,
getting the right ‘mossy” coat
in cattle prepared in summer
for an Easter Show, hence the
importance'' of stabling the
cattle were kept out of sun-
light, let out at night. Rations
—around 31b. of grain-mixture
to every dOOlb. liveweight. They
have scales at Retford Park, and
cattle are weighed regularly.
Regarding the property itself,
there was about 1300 acres of
improved - pasture English
ryegrass, cocksfoot, Italian rye-
grass, white Dutch clover, red
clover, subterranean clover —
another 300 acres in process of
being improved. Timber would
be left on the contours, mainly
to stock from the bleak
winds. Water? There were
springs in the hills, and a con-
crete dam with a 7y-million-
gallon capacity.
/"\NE of the few American
quarter-horses in Australia,
Mescal, a powerfully built
bronze stallion, was inspected
from the rails of his yard. The
quarter-horse, originally a
stock-horse, gets its name from
the distance—the quarter-mile
over which, it is claimed,
nothing in fiorseshoes pan
touch it. It was evolved,
apparently, from the practice
of cowboys racing their
horses for short distances,
,and has the bone and muscle
for cattle-work which, in
America, is done mainly with
a rope. It also holds its head
low, another advantage with
rope-work. > The quarter-horse
is said to be a superb stock-
horse, very quick on the turn,
and fast for a short distance.
The Horderns are interested in
them for stock-work, mainly in
Queensland. Mescal has sired
some foals from thoroughbred
mares.
After admiring Mescal, a
look at the dairy, from which
the milk is sold in cartons
locally, under the trade-name
“Cherry Tree Jersey Dairy.”
Another stud ; these Jerseys are
line-bred to Leda's Snowdrop,
champion at Sydney in 1909-
1911, a glance at the stud
Southdowns'and Ryelands—the
Sheep Show is a good distance
away, in any case—into the
bus and away.
TVTEXT stop was Greenwich
Park, near Goulburn, 4503
acres of highly-improved land
in the midst of rough, heavily-
timbered country. Greenwich
Park is a Shorthorn and Poll
Shorthorn stud, both studs
relatively new. Greenwich
Park really came into the news
in 1955, with the arrival of the
Shorthorn bull Calrossie Para-
mount, at a landed cost of
£A 12,500.
Foundation stock for the
Shorthorn stud came from
Kaluga, Coonong, Banool,
Weddin, and Narra-Allen. An
early importation was Cruggle-
ton Orangeman; then, in
1951, the red-and-roan bull,
Calrossie Royal Standard, was
bought in Scotland. Calrossie
Royal Standard’s heifers turned
out so well that it was decided
to get an outstanding bull to
mate with them.
The Greenwich show-team
this, year are all by Calrossie
Paramount, with the excep-
tion of a bull by Calrossie
Royal Standard. It will be the
first appearance of Calrossie
Paramount’s progeny at Sydney
Royal—one of his sons went on
to be senior and junior,
champion at Melbourne last
September, after winning the
under-15-months class and
the first offer of his progeny


YOU 3?AY FOR WORMS
AT SHEARING TIME!
' • .. • V
Worm infested sheep may reduce the
value of your wool clip as much as 40 %
• t
!;•
.v.y.-y.y.v..
I I
.»f * ri,
* I 1 *J a r
CONTROL WORMS
with
Superfine phenothiazine drench
Stomach and intestinal worms are a constant drain
on an animal's health. Nourishment that should go
into growing wool is wasted. That means a smaller
wool clip.
A FEW PENCE PER SHEEP MAKES POUNDS OF DIFFERENCE
Remember, worm-infested animals are weaker and
will be the first to feel the strain of a drouaht.
available in liquid or powder form
s
COOPAZINE will give maximum kill
• Nodule Worms
• Black Scour Worms
• Hook Worms
• Stomach Worms
• Large-mouthed Bowel Worms
DRENCH ALL SHEEP One undrenched animat will continue Pasture Contamination.
COOPAZINE is available in the following packs:
POWDER:
7-lb. packs
21 -lb. pails
50-lb. packs
224-lb. drums
LIQUID:
1-quart tins
1-gallon tins
5-gallon pails
OBTAINABLE FROM YOUR LOCAL COOPER AGENT:
WILLIAM COOPER & NEPHEWS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
V** Wo*
C.2BS5r


TIE WIRE-NETTING
THIS EASY WAY-
(2S yds. per minute)
GERRARD
AUTOMATIC
RING FASTENER
GUN - - - 60/- each
*
GALVANISED FASTENERS
ll- per IOOQf
Ring Fasteners are sold
in packets of 1000
.As fast as you can squeeze Its
easy-working handles, this self-,
feeding gun effortlessly clamps the
|l4 Gauge cement-adhered staples into sturdy 1 in. rings, which are automati-'
cally fed into the jaws. There is no wastage—the job is quick, neat and strong. l
Available from ALL WOOL HOUSES and
GENERAL STORES
Manufactured by fierrard Engineering Pty. Ltd., 18 Ireland St., W. MELB,
at the subsequent sales. So
there will be a good deal of
interest in the Greenwich Park
team, in both judging and
sales-ring.
The Poll Shorthorn stud is
based on Kaluga cows and
Kaluga Counsel, a white bull
with three crosses of Masterkey.
OaXwood Mainstay (P) was
imported • from America in
1951 to use on Kaluga Counsel s
nepers, and seven heifers were
bought in America the same
year.
A LITTLE grdup of people
near the stone-and-timber
homestead. Ralph Mansfield,
manager of Greenwich Park,
his father-in-law, a Mr. Stuart,
of the well-known building
firm (they built the “Herald”
building), and a director ot
Kyalla Pty., Ltd., the firm that
owns Greenwich Park. Also
two men to whom we were
introduced later, at the home-
stead, as the Mayor of Goiil-
burn and the shire president.
But there was no time for
introductions now, with the
afternoon wearing -.on, and
photographs to be taken. Mr.
Mansfield, with a forthrightness
that seemed typical of the man
and the place, took us straight
to see the foster-mothers ful-
filling their function in the
preparation of Show stock.
Four foster-mothers, on
raised hails —built-up bails, so
that the floor on which the cow
stands is higher than thj one on
which the operator stands,
are among the innovations
which have made work easier
and quicker ; these, the first we
had seen on the tour, were there
for the convenience of the
young stock —the young bulls
and heifers brought from the
nearby stalls, tugging eagerly,
like outsized bulldogs being
taken for a walk . ..
Big lumps of young bulls and
heifers, some of them, bigger
than their foster-mothers—up
to 21 months old. Twenty
Jerseys and 40 A.I.S. cows were
kept for fostering, Mansfield
said. Eighteen calves were on
foster-mothers at present . . .
Fostering is one of those
subjects about which many
breeders become suddenly shy
when it is raised —understand-
perhaps, because there are
formidable arguments against
the practice. The chief argu-
ment is the obvious one that
milk-production is important
in a beef-cow, since under
ordinary herd-conditions she
has to rear her own calf, and
that fostering tends to mask
the presence, or absence, of this
factor in a strain ; and there
has been sharp criticism of the
practice of putting very young
calves on to foster-mothers,
since the ability of the real
mother to raise a calf is then
untested. It is pointed-out that
the condition of the calf of a
beef-breed cow is what the
bucket is to a dairy-breed cow,
and that to put a calf on a
foster-mother is rather like
taking milk from one cow and
pouring it into another cow’s
testing-bucket . . .
Mansfield said, in effect, that
if some breeders used
foster-mothers, others had to
do the same. If no one fostered,
Greenwich Park would be
happy to do likewise. One in,
all in . . .
OUCH frankness inclined one
to listen to anything else
Mr. Mansfield had to say with
increased respect —as one is
impressed when a big company,
in a financial statement, freely
admits that it has charged de-
preciation at rates well in excess
of those that will be allowed by
the Taxation Commissioner.
He went on to say that the
fostered calves were left on
their mothers until they were
five months old so the
mother’s ability to rear a calf
was tested over that period;
he also pointed-out that every
cow was a valuable breeding-
machine —when she had got rid
of the responsibility of rearing
one calf she could get on with
the job of bearing another ;
and the ability to put-on weight,
to convert fodder, even ideal
fodder, into flesh was important
too. It wasn’t enough to cram
them with feed. Some put- 0n
weight, the right sort of weight
others didn’t . . . And therein
lies the key to a whole library
of genetics and stock-lore ...
Before we went on to the
feed-room (which is under the
same roof) he pointed-out a
thick-fleshed youngster, nine
months old and 4in. more
around the girth than he
should be for his age . .
A look at Calrossie Para,
mount, in his private paddock
leading from his sleeping,
quarters, the dark roan with the
beautiful head, not fat, of
course, but in good “working”
condition, and disinclined to
prick his ears forward for the
photographers ; so Alan Kay,
“Country Life” ' associate-
editor, br-r-r’d at him energeti-
cally, was still ignored, and in
his zeal almost rubbed his nose
against Calrossie Paramount's
expensive muzzle. Alan was by
far the most successful enticer
of poses in bulls on the trip,
and while engaged in this
public-spirited task, later on,
was caught by the TV-
cameras . . .
Calrossie Paramount, inci-
dentally, is by Calrossie Wel-
come out of Calrossie Broad-
hooks Ann. There is Calrossie
blood in the Hordern bull,
Erimus Intrepid, too, on both
the sire’s and dam’s sides, with
a dash of the Calrossie Broad-
hooks family on the sire’s side
—Erimus Intrepid’s grandsire,
Kirkton Baronet, was the -.ire
of Calrossie Broadhooks Ann,
Calrossie Paramount’s dam.
Everthing about Greenwich
Park looked efficient. The red-
and-green farm buildings, the
big wool-shed, the big dam;
if catchment fails a 13,000 ft.
pipeline with a 400 ft. head can
deliver 3000 gals. an hour from
the Wollondilly River. The
big dam is alive with trout,
we were told—Anglings were
put in five years ago. Marks
of chiselling on the hill above
the dam prompted a question-
Yes, they were very happy
about the results ; reduced run-
off, and the response of the
pasture had been remarkable.
No, it wasn’t Keylining—they
had simply run the chisel-
plough on the contours.
Although one Keyline area had
been pegged in another part ot!
the property, and would b c
done this year. Fifty-one acres;
were being put under irriga-
tion ...
In 10 years a great deal has
been done on Greenwich Park,
as the shire-president pointed-
out later in the evening, in a


s
=»=
H
=l=
CF
Iplpi
iisi
. ;.
m ■■
m**
W-/A
vtffc>K
\»8;*
the strongest
most versatile
framework
ever designed
Steel—wood—steel members give unequalled structural strength
and simplicity in construction!
Bowas is the world’s strongest, most versatile framework the
perfect building material for shearers’ quarters, cottages and home-
steads. The Bowas principle (cypress pine held rigid on both sides
by mild steel members up to 4in. thick) provides a framework of
immense strength only equalled by brick construction. Only Bowas
allows future alterations to be made at minimum cost and without
major structural changes. Only Bowas can be completely dis-
mantled, then re-erected, without damage to the framework.
Bowas framework will not warp or twist; is not affected by
shrinkage, dry rot, white ants, gum veins, etc. This is why Bowas
quality pays off in the long run, costs practically nothing in main-
tenance and very little in depreciation—holds its value years longer
than any other comparable structure. Erection of any building, from
a large homestead to small cottages, takes less time than any other
normal structure. Bowas is the modern way-to build—permanently
for the years ahead!
Write today for full details — there’s no obligation.
BOWAS CONSTRUCTIONS LIMITED
Williams Pde. (off Constitution Rd.), Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. LM 5204—LM 7886.
Railway Pde., Rocklea, Queensland. JU 1692.


brief speech with salt In it.
“Here,” he said, “you see
things done, not as they are
usually done, but as they
should be done.” A brief pause.
“Money has been no object.”
The last remark, perhaps,
rather took the honey out of
the compliment, but it was a
natural thought. What was
behind it, probably, was the
knowledge that there are many
* men on the land who know
what to do to improve their
properties, but lack the
financial strength to do so.
Especially now, when many of
them have had months of pay-
ing-out—for fodder, agistment,
and the like —without the
normal, supplementary income
from sales of stores, fat-lambs
and so on, and with the price
of wool down. And banks and
other lending institutions, of
course, are notorious for offer-
ing an umbrella in fine weather
and snatching it away when it
rains ...
. All of which, of course,
takes nothing from the admira-
tion one can properly feel for
what has been done on Green-
wich Park. The whole area has
now been pasture-improved.
For stud-work, a series of five
3-acre paddocks are spray-
irrigated from an 8-million-
gallon - capacity dam. For
limited periods, apart from the
normal population of sheep
and of stud cattle, the property
had been heavily stocked with
sheep.
From the homestead,
through the wide windows,
there is a panoramic view of
what must be a fair stretch of
the property. Someone noticed
a pair of field-glasses on the
window-seat and half-jokingly
suggested that, from this posi-
tion. the eye -of the master
might do more than fatten the
cattle. Mr. Stuart amiably
agreed that it was possible to
see a great deal of what was
going on from here—an alarm-
ing thought for anyone con-
templating seeking employment
there who might be fond of a
nap under a tree during work-
ing-hours. But, I imagine, any-
one capable of such villainy
would stand small chance of
being taken-on at Greenwich
Park. There are 24 employees
on Greenwich Park, and the
management is proud of its
staff amenities.
TN Goulburn, over coffee at
the hotel —we had dined,
magnificently, at Greenwich
Park —the Mayor of Goulburn,
Mr. Howard, made a short
speech. Later, at Young, we
were to meet another mayor,
also a Mr. Howard,
As might be expected, the
wool-selling row is a pretty live
issue in Goulburn. With a
population of around 21,000,
Goulburn is naturally anxious
to retain any business it can,
and, if possible, attract more.
An anxiety we were to hear
echoed in other towns during
the tour.
And so to bed after a pretty
full day which was more or
less a model of the rest of the
tour, We visited a number of
properties, any one of which
could well be the subject of a
long descriptive article, or, for
that matter, of a series of
articles. Here, for reasons of
space, it will only be possible
to mention a few salient
points . . .
Merryville, and the house of
dark stone that came from
Route of the tour of stud-properties, sponsored by Shell. At
Orange the leader of the party, R.A.S. councillor Hugh Ross, of
Harden, said the Shell companies last year spent £3 ½ million on
agricultural research.
Ravensworth, where Sir Walter'
Merriman’s father, as Sir
Walter has related in an article
in a Bulletin Wool Issue, had
a “Small but very good”
Merino stud around 1865. The
billiard - room shining with
trophies won by the Merryville
sheep, the billiard-table covered
with grand - championship
ribbons. The brick wool-shed,
where we had a quick look at
some of the famous Merryville
rams . . .
But the main purpose of our
visit was not the Merryville
sheep, but the cattle —the
Merryville Shorthorn and Poll
Shorthorn stud. So when we
left, Goulburn on Tuesday
morning for Yass we went first
to Hillview, to see the cattle.
Then off the Barton highway,
along the Dog-trap Road, to
Merryville proper. Here a
word of explanation seems
necessary. Like many big
family pastoral concerns,
Merryville is a. company—
Merryville Pty., Ltd. There are,
in fact, several properties, an
area of 26,923 acres. With the
exception of about 1500 acres,
this has all been sown with
sub-clover and topdressed with
super.—about 1200 tons a
year.
\
AT Hillview we saw Bogan
Monarch (P), bought for
2000gns. at the 1955 Sydney
Royal, where he was senior-
champion. Bogan Monarch
will be offered for sale at the
Royal this year, and his place
in the stud will be taken by one
of his sons, Merryville
Monarch, a roan bull, junior
champion and reserve senior-
champion at last year’s Mel-
bourne Show.
The show-team were led out
one by one. Apart from Merry-
ville Monarch, a red bull,
Merryville Laddie 3rd, took the
eye; as well he might—he was
reserve junior - champion at
Melbourne Royal in 1955, after
winning his class (under 12-
months), junior- and senior-
champion at Sydney Royal in
1956, and champion at th©
Melbourne Royal and Wag’ga
Show last year. Merryville
Laddie 3rd is by Woomargama
Quiberon. Another bull by the
same sire, Merryville True
Leader, was in his stall, not in
show condition.
William Price Jones, the well-
known stud-groom, said both
True Leader and Laddie were
siring very good stock. True
Leader was a bit shorter than
Laddie, less gay, but had a
wonderful head ...
One of the recurring frustra-
tions of the trip was that it was
hard to find time to ask men
like Price Jones the sort of
questions one would like to
ask. And, confronted with a
crowd of people asking all
manner of questions, it was
often hard for them to find
adequate answers; not from
lack of knowledge, but from
a wealth of it. As a High
Court Judge, I imagine, would
be a trifle put out if some
pert young thing demanded,
over the dinner-table, “Tell me
all about the Law.”
Not quite in this class, but
close to it, was the question:
“How can you tell a good
bull?” William Price Jones—as
the name suggests, he’s from
Wales ; has been in Australia
50 years played that one
cautiously. He said it was diffi-
cult to explain ; a combination
of many things; a sort of
instinct. Pressed to be more
specific, he rattled off the points
of a beef-breed animal. At
“A leg on each corner” there
was a polite laugh, breaking the
thread of the recital. Joke,
noted the reporter. But, of
course, it wasn’t a joke—merely
jargon, so familiar to the user
that he hadn’t stopped to think
about it, for a beast set squarely
on all four legs.
VfILLY IyiILLY, six miles
from Young, where bull-
dozens were working on what
will be an extra-large dam—
capacity 85 million gallons.
From this it is hoped to
irrigate 200 acres, or, with a
replenishment system, a total
of 500 acres. The property
covers 2200 acres of gently to
steeply undulating country, with
50 acres of lucerne for cutting,
the rest sown to sub.-clover and
ryegrass. It carries some 6000
sheep (not including the annual
drop of over 2000 lambs) and
around 150 head of cattle, and
is watered by three creeks and
24 dams.
Hector McFarlane started the
Poll Shorthorn stud in the late
1940’5, with stock from dis-
persal sales of several Short-
horn studs, including the Mac-
quarie and Narra-Allen studs.
In 1950 he bought Netherby
Imperial Command (P), junior-
champion and reserve senior-
champion at that year’s Sydney
Royal, for the then record-
price at auction for a Poll
Shorthorn bull of 1750 gns.
Joined to about 30 horned cows
each year, Netherby Imperial
Command has, up to the end
of last year, sired 165 poll
calves and not one horned calf.
His stock has done well at both
the Sydney and Melbourne
Royals for instance, Milly
Milly Ecstasy was champion
female at Sydney in 1954, and
Milly Milly Headline was
champion bull at last year’s
Sydney Royal.
Since 1954 the stud has been
a partnership of H. and H.
McFarlane. The other partner
is Mrs. McFarlane, who, that
year, went to America to buy
a bull to mate with the


fa
Protect your Sheep against
BLOWFLY, LICE and KED with
SHELL DIELDRIN CONCENTRATE (15%)
Sheepmen! The spray dip to put your confidence in for /
the control of Blowfly, Ked and Lice, is Shell Dieldria
Concentrate (15%)! Not only does Dieldrin combat
these destructive parasites on sheep, it’s a residual
insecticide that will keep the animal clean for long
periods it has been proved in some cases to remain
effective for as long as three months.
Contact your nearest Shell Chemical Agent for full
information about and supplies of Shell Dieldria
Concentrate (J 5 % ).
SHILL
Agricultural
Chemicals
Shell Chemical
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. (Inc. in Victoria)
Melbourne • Sydney • Brisbane • Adelaide • Perth • Hobart
An Associate of The Shell Co. of Aust. Ltd. and registered nser of its Trade Mark*
SHELL AGRICULTURAL AND HORTICULTURAL CHEMICALS FOR AUSTRALIA-WIDE USt.
SC 5814/24
daughters of Netherby Imperial
Command. She picked Priam
Royal Leader 2nd (P), son of
the Scottish imported bull
Lawton Priam. His progeny at
Milly Milly so far consists of
26 dropped in 1956 and 30 in
1957. The Sydney Show team
of five bulls and four females
are all by Priam Royal Leader,
out of cows by Netherby Im-
perial Command. This is the
first appearance of Priam Royal
Leader’s stock at Sydney, so
there will be a lot of interest
in them in the judging-ring and
at the sales. All but one of the
bulls will be offered for sale.
I
nrHE exception, a white bull,
Milly Milly Igloo, is the
best bull in the team, so it
should be interesting to see how
he is placed in Sydney. He
is under 21 months, and was
shown at Young Show last
year, where he was junior-
champion and reserve senior-
champion—he was beaten by
the Sydney Royal champion,
Milly Milly Headline.
The white bull was much
photographed on our visit.
Then, when Mrs. McFarlane
mentioned that he had fallen
into the swimming-pool when
he was a calf, someone had the
idea of posing him against the
pool. A study in white and
green white swimming- pool,
white bull, the water a shade of
green, and, not far away, a
circular green lawn with a
silver poplar, under which
Hector McFarlane was advising
people not to be shy—just grab
a drink—and the Milly Milly
homestead white-and-green, too
—a white house with green
vines around it.
Apart from the cattle, the
most interesting thing on Milly
Milly was the big dam, on
which the bulldozers were
still working. Asked what, it
would cost, Hector McFarlane
said that 75,000 yards of earth
had to be moved—at 2s. a yard
it would work out at something
like £ll,OOO. He was asked
what valuation he would put on
irrigated-pasture, per acre, and
he gave a choice of several
estimates by landlowners
“But mind you, that’s their
figures, not mine.”
Someone asked him why he
exhibited cattle, and McFar-
lane parried with: “Why does
a man spend months groom-
ing a hack to ride around a
show-ring?” But, that night,
at the local radio-station,
when the question was put to
him again, he said he had
often asked himself the ques-
tion, and considered and
rejected a variety of reasons—
the good of the breed, com-
mercial advantage, etc. The
correct answer, he thought,
was that he liked cattle and
liked showing them . . .
Earlier, there had been a
civic reception, a brief and
dignified ceremony, the
Mayor of Young, Alderman
R. L. Howard, in his robes of
office, and among those
present the Federal member,
Anderson, V.C.
'VjU ERRIB E E, between
” Cowra and Blayney, was
taken-up by F. C. Rowlands,
a remarkable farmer, in the
late 1880’s. It is now run by
his sons, J. F. and H. C. Row-
lands, who share the manage-
ment—Jack Rowlands looks.
after the stud-sheep and
-cattle, Hugh Rowlands
managing the agricultural and
developmental side. There are
7000 acres, of which more
than 6000 acres have been
sown to Mt. Barker sub.-
clover, hl-rye and Wimmera-
rye, and there are more than
500 acres of lucerne. Clovers
were established more than 30
years ago.
The Werribee Aberdeen
Angus cattle will not be shown
at this year’s Sydney Show, so
most of the interest was
centred on the general plan-
ning of the property—for
which both the brothers give
the entire credit to their
father, saying it was only
necessary to follow on the
lines he had laid down; but
the follow-up work has cer-
tainly been thorough—and
o Continued on next page )


ROYAL JELLY
Direct from the bees. Fabulously
rich vitalising dietary supplement.
One month’s supply, in capsules,
£5/5/-, or mixed in 6 ounces of
boney, £5. Technical data 2/6,
Free Leaflet.
R. A. PEACOCK
Apiarist, 21 Carbine Street,
KERANG. VICTORIA.
the Romney Marsh stud,
founded by F. C. Rowlands in
1920. It is the largest
Romney Marsh stud in Aus-
tralia, and has 2260 registered
breeding-ewes. Hugh Row-
lands is an R.A.S. councillor,
president of the Cowra P.A.
and H. Society, and president
of the N.S.W. Romney Marsh
Breeders’ Association. /
AT Coombing Park, Car-
coar, owned by the
Whitney Pastoral Company,
we saw the show-team, the
first progeny of the imported
bull, Easterlovat Fortitude.
The Shorthorn stud was
formed in 1910, with stock
from the Lee herd. The
Merino stud was established
in 1907, with Uardry ewes and
Boonoke rams.
Coombing Park was origin-
ally a Crown grant to Thomas
Iceley, whose name keeps bob-
bing up in the history of the
Merino in Australia, then
passed from his son to Cobb
and Co., in which William
Franklyn Whitney was an
original partner, and the
Whitneys have been associated
with the property ever since.
It now consists of 5901 acres
of undulating to hilly country,
with rich flats. There has been
a good deal of pasture-
improvement.
At Bundaleer, Tarana, Jack
Perry, on a chestnut stallion,
drove a small mob of Short-
horns up for inspection. The
Perrys, Jack and Geoff, breed
Red Polls, Shorthorns, Poll
Shorthorns, Corriedales, Dor-
set Horns, Poll Dorspts, and
horses on the adjoining
properties, Bundaleer and
Keirstone. They are only
taking Red Polls to Sydney
this year—four bulls and two
heifers —and hadn’t intended
to take them, at one stage.
Usually they take a team of
10 Red Polls and 10 Poll
Shorthorns, but the season has
been against them. The show-
team was only brought in
eight weeks before the show.
r T'HE Perrys don't use foster-
mothers, and all cows have
to rear their calves under
paddock conditions. The two
properties aggregate 5000 acres
of undulating granite country
running into basalt; it is 2500 ft.
to 3000 ft. above sea-level;
average rainfall is 24in. (10
miles away it’s much higher);
and before the war land in the
district was cheap. Super, and
sub.-clover had improved it
enormously. Nearly all the
Perry land has been sown-
down with sub.-clover, peren-
nial-rye, phalaris and lucerne
sheep and cattle were living
on clover-burr before the rain.
Bundaleer Bold Ballad, top
sire of the Red Poll stud, was
champion at Sydney twice,
champion at Melbourne once.
The junior sire, Bundaleer Bold
Woodfull, champion in Sydney
last year, is in this year’s Show
team.
The tour ended, in effect, at
Hawkesbury Agricultural, with
an inspection of the college’s
Show-team of Friesians, after
lunch at Camp Mackay, and
seeing the Canadian Berk-
shires, some of which have
been entered for the Sydney
Show.
We had seen a lot in a short
time, and, towards the end, it
was difficult to take-in all that'
was seen. But there is no doubt
that it was a valuable experi-
ence and one which, I hope,
will be repeated, with whatever
amendments the R.A.S. and
Shell people think wise. In fact,
a grand tour.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
ORANGE SHOW
“DROUGHT? What
drought?” was a typical
comment by visitors to the 1958
Orange Show.
Although the “big dry” of
1957 reduced the number of
entries in some sections, the
Show was nevertheless the usual
reflection of the wealth of a
wealthy district. The judge of
the Merino sheep section, A.
Job, of Yeoval, summed it up
when he said that although
entries were down somewhat,
there were some outstanding
exhibits.
It was in the well-stocked
agricultural pavilion that the
effects of the drought were
least noticeable —so much so
that stewards had difficulty in
finding space for everything.
Many countrymen had high
praise for the wool exhibit,
which they found had been re-
arranged to show the wool in
continuous lines.
Although exhibits by Junior
Farmers’ clubs were limited to
two —Orange, and the Fair-
Tetanus occurs in all
animals. Sheep and
goats are more sus-
ceptible than cattle.
The disease is caused
by an organism found
in all soils and
especially in manure.
Lambs that are
marked and tailed by
Elastrator can be
expected to enjoy a
high degree of protec-
tion against tetanus.
The constriction by
the rubber of the
ring causes no wounds
and tetanus infection
is usually the result
of wounds coming
into contact with con-
taminated dust, soil
or manure.
bridge Farm School at Molong
—they created a lot of interest.
The Fairbridge club, with a
well-set-out display of produce,
defeated Orange, but not by a
very wide margin.
This year, the “townies,” as
well as the producers,, found
plenty to interest them at the
Show. Orange Camera Club
held a continuous display of
color-slides in a “theatrette” in
one corner of the pavilion—
more than 60 slides, in all,
showing everything from sea-
scapes to child-studies. Also
in the pavilion—for the first
time at Orange—was a section
for caged birds, which drew
more than 400 entries from all
over the central west and
beyond. It was claimed to be
the biggest display of caged
birds ever presented in rural
N.S.W.
In the ring, principal attrac-
tions included a tractor-driving
contest and polo-matches.
The tractor-driving, in which
contestants had to drive a
tractor through a course set-
out with drums and then reverse
through it, was won by Geoff
Fanning with Barry Atkins
runner-up both Orange-
district men.
The polo, of Dudley Cup
standard, was won by a
Western Districts side against a
crack Goulburn team.
Takings at the gate for the
three days totalled £l9l7 —
about £4OO below the 1957
figure, but £4OO above the 1956
total.
Show president John Sharpe
pointed-out that a visit by star
women athletes, including
Marlene Mathews, helped swell
the crowd at the 1957 Show,
and he said the Show Society
hoped to arrange a similar
attraction next year.
JAYBEE.
Dry Stock
“Marwal”: One of the
greatest needs for improvement
in feeding policy on many Aus-
tralian farms is in the adequate
nutrition of dry stock.
This is most obvious in
both dry and in-calf cows,
which are often turned out into
a scrub paddock until close to
calving. Experiments have
proved that nutrition during
this period plays an important
part in the subsequent lacta-
tion, and that any deficiencies
in feed before calving cannot
be made up by generosity once
the milk-flow begins.
The same principle applies
to other animals. A mob of
y'ethers might be useful for
cleaning-up the fallows, buj
full wool-production can be
maintained only by providing
enough feed throughout the
year. Buyers don’t like fleeces
which show uneven growth
during the season.
The obvious answer is to
provide conserved fodder to all
stock throughout the year.
Breeding animals should get
preference, but all should get
their share.


“quite weary and dull I could go no
further; and resolved to leave the rest
till tomorrow morning, and so in full
discontent and wearyness went home,
and without supper, vexed and sickish
to bed.” Unable to sleep, he woke his
wife “to talk to me and comfort me
and made me resolve to quit my
hands of this office and endure the
trouble no longer.”
In that desperate state of mind he
went down to the House next day with
his fellows, and was there called into
judgment before a very full House,
fomented with antagonism against
himself and his office. A test of forensic
ability, if ever there was one. The
Speaker having read over the commis-
sion’s findings against the mismanage-
ment and corruption of the Navy
Office,
I began my .defence most accept-
ably and smoothly [wrote Pepys]
and continued at it without any
hesitation or loss, but with full
scope, and all my reason free about
me as if it had been my own table,
from that time (eleven-o’clock) till
past three in the afternoon, and so
ended, without any interruption by
the Speaker, we withdrew.
An amazing performance, which
cleared the Navy Office completely of
all accusations brought against it. The
personal qualifications which made it
possible are apparent. Pepys had a
fine voice—he sang with distinction.
He had that fluent ease of speech
which extemporises the phrase in a
finished diction, and the emphasis
which carries conviction. Without
those assets he never could have
carried an antagonistic audience with
him for four hours, and won over its
suffrages at the end of it.
On the theme of a successful career,
that speech was one of its highlights,
coming as it did on a long period of
threat and suspense, and there is no
pleasanter reading than the pleasure
Pepys got out of the popular esteem
it brought him. With breathless gusto
he records all the compliments paid
him. Sir William Coventry greeted
him with, “Good morrow, Mr. Pepys,
that must be Speaker of the Parliament
House.” When Pepys met the King
in the park, Charles said, “Mr. Pepys,
I am very glad of your success yester-
day.” Lord Berkeley said he never did
hear a speech delivered in that manner
before. Prodgers of the Bedchamber
“swore to me that he told the King I
could teach the Solicitor-General.”
George Montague said “I was another
Cicero, and all the world said the
?a, me of me.” Mr. Godolphin said
he would go twenty miles to hear such
a , speech again.” The Lieutenant of
the Tower told Pepys that Mr. Vaughan
did protest to him that he had sat
twenty-six years in Parliament and
never heard such a speech.”
There were many more such tributes,
and Pepys “spent the morning walking
in the Hall being complimented by
everybody to admiration.” Later, at
the Privy Council, when the threat of
a miscarriage in affairs was discussed
as coming under the displeasure of
Parliament, “Why,” says the King, “it
is then Mr. Pepys making another
speech to them,” which made “all the
Lords and the Attorney and the
Solicitor-General look at me.”
WRITER’S capacity to communi-
cate his own sense of pleasure to a
reader is a difficult literary feat, and
Pepys rarely failed to do so. Of all the
arts, one’s response to music is the most
baffling to convey in words, yet Pepys
finds the words which convince one of
that ecstatic emotion which only
harmonic perfection can arouse in us:
But that which did please me
beyond anything in the whole world
was the wind-music when the angel
which is so sweet that
it ravished me, and indeed, in a
word, did wrap up my soul so that
it made me really sick, just as I have
formerly been when in love with my
wife ; that neither then, nor all the
evening going home, or at home, I
was able to think of anything, but
remained all night transported, so
as I could not believe that ever any
music hath that real command over
the soul of a man as this doth
upon me.
During the ghastly year of the
plague, when London was practically
a deserted city, with nothing in the
streets but the tumbrils carrying corpses
for burial in the fields, a little group
came to dinner at Greenwich, among
them being Evelyn and Sir John
Minnes, both accredited wits at any
social gathering. News had come of
the capture of some rich Dutch prizes
by Lord Sandwich, which, wrote Pepys,
put us all into such an ecstasy of
joy, that it inspired Sir J. Minnes
and Mr. Evelyn with such a spirit of
mirth, that in all my life I never met
with so merry a two hours as our
company this night was. Among
other humors, Mr. Evelyn’s repeat-
ing some verses made up of nothing /
but - various acceptations of “may”
and “can,” and doing it so aptly
upon occasion of something of that
nature, and so fast, did make us
almost die with laughing, and did
so stop the mouth of Sir J. Minnes
in the middle of all his mirth (and
in a thing agreeing with his own
manner of genius) that I never saw
a man so outdone in all my life ; and
Sir J. Minnes’ mirth in seeing himself
so outdone, was the crown of our
mirth. In this humor till ten at night,
and we to bed, it being one of the
times of my life wherein I was
fullest of a true sense of joy.
That gay little party shines like a
bright light against the black horrors
of the plague surrounding it. For a few
hours its tension is lifted, and the brief
release from nervous stress inspires an
emotion of pure delight.
The whole picture of the plague is
drawn with terrific realism, and in
that way alone adds dignity, courage
and integrity to the full stature of
Pepys himself. All through the diary
he castigates himself for cowardice at
any threat of physical danger, but the
way he, alone of the Navy officials,
stuck to his work during the time of
warfare at sea and pestilence on land
evinces an indomitable moral courage.
And at last, on one count, it rewarded
him well. At the beginning of the
plague year he had £I3OO to his credit.
At the year’s end that credit had
amounted to the sum of £4500 , . .
An instructive sidelight on the uni-
versal system of bribery by which all
business was conducted in that era.
It was an established precedent, and
the only obligation imposed on it was
that it should not be practised too
blatantly. This was bad taste, and
offensive to a general act of oblivion
over its procedure, and no one was
more discreet than Pepys in keeping
decorum on that score. His system
was this: he only took bribes when
sound business justified the whole
transaction.
All his colleagues on the Navy
Board took bribes from anybody, no
matter what shoddy they imposed on
the king’s purse and service. Pepys
would have none of that. He never
bought a commodity without first
assuring himself personally of its
quality. He learned to measure timber,
evaluate bunting, canvas, tar, cordage
or any other goods essential to the
upkeep of the Navy, so that nearly all
purchases recommended by him were
endorsed by the Admiralty Board
sitting under the Duke of York, much
to the exasperation of his own
colleagues who saw their tenders
turned down as being of inferior quality.
But they had cause to bless Pepys
for his astuteness at the expense of
their pockets when the Parliament came
to examine the alleged misuse of
public money by the Navy Office during
the Dutch war. Pepys had his books
in perfect order, and was able to prove
that the money advanced had been
economically expended in the king’s
service . . .
The entertainment-value of the diary
has been universally acclaimed but its
literary qualities overlooked, which is
a failure to observe that its entertain-
ment is derived from its literary
qualities.
Matthew Arnold once said, “People
think I can teach them style. What
stuff all that is. Have something to


say and say it as clearly as you can.
That is the only secret of style.” And
Pepys had that secret.
For stark realism, his picture of the
great fire of London matches his
account of the plague. There are pages
of it, all sustained at the same pic-
torial clarity, meticulous observation
and emotional tension: —
So near the fire as we could
not breathe for smoke, and all over
the Thames, with one’s face in the
wind, you were almost burned with
the shower of fire drops. This is
very true, so that houses were burned
by these drops and flakes of fire
three or four, nay, five or six houses
one from another. When we could
endure no more upon the water we
to a little ale-house on the Bankside,
over against the Three Cranes, and
there stayed till it was dark almost,
and saw the fire grow ; and as it
grew darker, appeared more and
more in corners and upon steeples,
and between churches and houses,
as far as we could see up the hill
of the city, in a most horrid,
malicious bloody flame, not like the
fine flame of an ordinary fire.... We
stayed till, it being darkish, we saw
the fire only as one entire arch of
fire from this to the other side of the
bridge, in a bow up the hill for an
arch above a mile wide, it made me
weep to see it.
That is most excellent writing, and
only a genuine literary faculty could
have produced it . . .
/''yNE extremely precious content of
the diary which a commentator
must not overlook is Pepy’s adoration
for the beauty of women, and his
various amorous affairs with them.
However unreserved a man may be
about his private love-life in talk it
is the one subject he is most furtive
about when writing a personal record
of his life. No doubt most writers shy
off it because it is the most difficult
subject to handle with ease, assurance
and a lack of self-consciousness, but
its blank space in nearly all auto-
biographies deprives them of a first
essential to self-revelation, for we can’t
know a man truly till we know some-
thing about his relations with women.
Pepys is hampered by no such
reticence in the picture he gives of
himself as an amorist:—-
I to the Swan and dined upon the
rabbit, and after dinner to Mrs.
Martin’s, and there find Mrs.
Burroughs, and by and by comes a
pretty widow, one Mrs: Eastwood,
and one Mrs. Fenton, a maid, and
here a merry kissing and looking on
their breasts, and all the innocent
pleasure in the world. But Lord ;
to see the dissembling of this
widow, how upon the singing of a
certain jigg by Doll, Mrs. Martin’s
sister, she seemed to be sick and
fainted and God knows what, because
the jigg which her husband (who
died of this last sickness) loved.
But by and by I made her as merry
as possible* and towsed and tumbled
her as I pleased.... Mightily pleased
with this afternoon’s mirth . . .
For the most part, once Pepys has
established a casual love-affair, it is
passed-off in the diary with some such
formula as “To see Mrs. So-and-so,
and there did what I would with her,”
but with several of the women he had
to do with, what he did is censored by a
series of dots. When in London first
I met old Wheatley, the editor of the
diary, and asked him why he had made
these exceptions between one woman
and another. His answer was that
these censored passages had to do
with women whose descendants were
still extant, and it was in deference to
them that he had thought fit to delete
from the text anything tendering to
the disrepute of their ancestors. A
fatuous explanation! The blank space
of dots evidences that amorous antics
are being censored, thereby a
libidinous impress on the reader’s mind
which a plain statement would dispense
with.
I suspect Wheatley submitted to
snobbery over those censored passages.
He has no concern for the post-mortem
reputation of Mrs. Bagwell, a
carpenter’s wife, or of Mrs. Martin, a
purser’s wife, while Doll Lane, a
trollop, and anybody’s property, has no
reputation to be protected. The cen-
sorings have only to do with ladies
of middle-class respectability, and
Wheatley endorsed its interdictions
against any violation of a code of
decorum.
It was the novelist as much as the
amorist in Pepys which so fascinated
him with the world of feminity, for he
has something revealing to say about
every woman who came under his
inspection, from the lovely Lady
Castlemaine to a slatternly virago like
the Duchess of Albemarle. His greatest
life-size feminine portrait is, of course,
Mrs. Pepys, though it lacks only one
ingredient to complete it, and that is
the precise nature of her offstage
relations with men.
Those are left to what sapience the
reader may have in estimating the value
of circumstantial evidence, and there
is a good deal of that to suggest that
Mrs. Pepys also went off the marital
rails when chance offered her a pleas-
ing amorous interlude. Though Pepys
was tormented by jealousy over any
evidence of illicit behavior in such an
interlude, he always shied away from
trying to verify his suspicions, unable
to face the disruption to his peace of
mind which confirmation of them
would inflict. He confesses as much
in that notable affair between Mrs.
Pepys and young Mr. Somersett, son
to Lord Somersett.
Mrs. Pepys had known the youth in
France, and chance brought them
together again in a London theatre,
as a result of which Mrs. Pepys met
Mr. Somersett next day at the ’Change,
where he presented her with some
rings and a bracelet. Next day, being
abroad with Pepys, Mrs. Pepys was
accosted by a French footman with
feathers, who spoke privately with her,
though Pepys heard her promise to go
some place next morning. And
to some place she went next day, refus-
ing to tell Pepys where she was going,
or, on returning, where she had been,
and though Pepys was in a ferment of
jealousy, he refused to trounce her
into confessing. He did not want to
know.
That event set the pattern for all
future indiscretions. Mrs. Pepys
always maintained the same feckless,
or reckless, refusal to concede any right
of intrusion by Pepys on her private
affairs, notably those which had to do
with Pembleton, her dancing-master,
and Brown, the painter who gave her
drawing-lessons. The best Pepys could
do to assert his marital authority was
to refuse to have Brown dining at his
table, much to Mrs. Pepys’s indigna-
tion, and when Pembleton was alone
in the house with her, and the exaspera-
tions of jealousy became unbearable, to
AT THE BAY
[l]
Let all the crowds playing hard at holiday
believe their boisterous gaiety could be
the real voice of happiness today:
But lying quiet as stars with you and gay
in all the depths and worlds of you
( beneath,
love, these trees where every twig nerves
with
your presence, shades your miracle —and
knows
we grasp the only joy ) / am silent, though
all my body’s owners shout your praise
in a choir that tumults through my
arteries
and rules my urgent flesh, alive and wise,
now, in the wordless joy of our embrace.
[2]
Along the tide’s brief wash of sand,
marvelling in the secrets of your hand,
I walked with you a fire of love ;
and the soiled ~ beach and the cramped
waves
were transfigured then in my eyes
to incandescent territories.
Your fingers kindled me to dream
this as our kingdom, and to flame
curved gleaming futures in this place,
for I in my burning happiness
believed that you had seen, had known,
also, the world made rare by love’s sun.
N.S.W.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT.


hurry home from his office and shuffle
papers in his closet, just to let them
know he was on the premises.
When Pepys sent his wife down to
Woolwich during the plague she had
unlimited freedom to consort with
Brown, as Pepys only chanced a visit
there at intervals. On one of those he
arrived during a furious quarrel be-
tween Mrs. Pepys and her maid Mary,
who told Mrs. Pepys to her teeth that
she would tell Pepys something about
her which would stop her mouth, which
Pepys suspected to be about Brown,
and, as usual, refused to hear about,
preferring to bolt out of the house in
a mighty passion of jealousy.
Then again there was a letter which
Pepys found in his wife’s bed, which
put her in a fluster of alarm to discover
whether or not he had read it. Beyond
noting that it acknowledged some great
favor from Mrs. Pepys, he refused to
read further and threw the letter away,
making the excuse that it was too
ill-writ to be worth the trouble of
deciphering. Finally there was the
gracious condescension of Lord
Sandwich to Mrs. Pepys during her
stay at Brampton, which was close to
the Sandwich mansion of Hinching-
broke. During that tremendous uproar
over the exposure of Pepys’s affair with
Deborah Willet, Mrs. Pepys threw at
Pepys, as evidence of her chaste
conduct as a wife, her rejection of
amorous advances by Lord Sandwich
himself . . .
That won’t do at all. Credulity
refuses to see Mrs. Pepys austerely
repulsing the august ardors of Lord
Sandwich. And the really insensate
furies of jealousy she let loose on
Pepys over the Willet episode are
perfectly in key with her immature
mentality, which would find them a
justification for her own illicit antics .. .
Consider Mrs. as revealed in
the diary, and by Hales’s portrait of
her. She was a pretty little half-witted
moron with plenty of sex-attraction but
with the mentality of a girl of eight, and
that is a combination no man competes
with in terms of rationality, as witness
her proposal to take Pepys by the nose
with a pair of red-hot tongs when in
a rage with him. Her intellectual
status may be measured by her pre-
dilection for the “Grand Cyrus”;
Pepys had to check her from boring
the company by recounting slabs of its
interminable drivel. Hales complained
that her nose gave him as much trouble
to paint as another person’s face, and
that completes, for me, the knowledge
that Mrs. Pepys was one of those
women who never grow-up. It is a
child’s nose, without any definition of
form between the aquiline and the
retrousse. It is the human nose which
determines personality, and no one can
predict, looking at a child’s nose, what
that personality will develop into. If
the nose refuses to grow up, the mind
behind it remains that of a child . . .
Normally Mrs. Pepys was contented
enough to run her house and squabble
with her maids, and have an occasional
outing at Vauxhall or Spring Gardens,
to eat cakes and.drink milk. But any
special event of social pleasure made
her discontented and avid for more,
as Pepys frequently complained. One
cannot see Mrs. Pepys’s doll’s-stare
and her infantile nose permitting any
ridifculous interdictions by a husband
to intrude on an event of pleasure
inspired by the flattering ardors of a
lover ...
{ANLY one other work can be com-
pared with the diary in the whole
range of English literature, and that is
Boswell’s journal. Out of hundreds of
diaries, journals and autobiographies
these two creations alone have suc-
ceeded perfectly in self-revelation an<i
self-portraiture: a remarkable instance
of the universal urge in mankind to
escape facing the stark reality of its
being. These are the only two men
who ever told the truth about them-
selves.
The diary is not only a book read—
it is a life lived, fully, richly, with
impassioned gusto. There is hardly an
emotional issue in it which does not
awaken in us the consciousness of a
personal experience. That is its uni-
versal appeal, quite apart from its
enchanting entertainment.
The faculty of a fine novelist went
into the making of this diary. In spite
of its irresponsible form, it develops
into a constructed work. Historians
acclaim it for the intimate picture it
gives of the affairs and personalities of
its period, but its major value is that
it is a literary work of rare distinction.
It has all the essentials of a novel
character - creation, psychological
divination, interest sustained by action,
and drama brought to crisis against a
vivid, pictorial background.
Most of all, it has a dominant theme
based 6n a universal aspiration: that of
success in the struggle for existence. Its
narrative is held together by a single
thread which runs through it from
beginning to end —the acquisition of
money, which also implies the advance-
ment of Pepys from a beginning as a
minor clerk to that of an outstanding
figure in the Government of his country.
Regrets have been expressed that
the diary was not continued into the
reign of James 11, but that is to confuse
the metier of the historian with that
of the novelist. As a novel the diary
has completed its theme of a successful
career. Pepys has acquired an opulent
income and a distinguished place in
public affairs. He has a fine house,
stored with valuable portable property,
a library of rare books, and his walls
are hung with examples from the best
portrait-painters of the period. He
dines off gold plates, his cellar is
stored with wines of quality and the
menu of his dinner-parties is enough
to stagger the enfeebled stomachs of
the present era. . Finally, he has his
own coach and horses; the caste-mark
of social distinction in his day.
That other dominant motive in the
novel, success in love, is also brought
to a dramatic crescendo by the domestic
cataclysm brought down on him over
his affair with pretty little Deborah
Willet, his wife’s maid. This crisis
arrives precisely in its right place in
the novel, for something of the sort
had to happen over the simmering
jealousies between husband and wife,
and its development is one of the
diary’s unique literary achievements.
A husband detected ip adultery by a
jealous wife may be a shopworn
theme, but it is rarely .treated in fiction
with such a sense of its emotional
reality as it is in the diary, nor with
such sustained drama. Never has the
superiority of the wife in marital
conflict been so ruthlessly vindicated
as in the satanic vitality Mrs. Pepys
draws from a distracted situation which
drives Sam into a craven subjection to
her for the sake of peace at any price.
Thereafter the diary draws to a close
on a selected note of finality, a fear of
failing eyesight which will not permit
Pepys to carry it on any further. There
was no need to carry it further, for it
is a completed work of art, and the
fear of blindness was. groundless.
THIS MAN
With the alternating blare of trumpets
and a voice
from a box in his hollow room and the
sound
of the bell beneath his outer nameplate
sleeps.
His slow stomach like the ground-swell
heaving
out of its crumpled comforter, out from
under
the brown suit draped to the back of a
chair
sleeps.
While outside they call and talk about
him
repeat and repeat his name like a moth
through the window, pelting at the hot,
dry globe
but he sleeps.
His names mean nothing to him now
yet taking his meaning, make his
monument
death before death and life after death,
the shapes of his name
never sleep.
N.Z.
BARRY MITCHALFE.


y /l # .5
•ii/
\ . ll“ //,y
Jh
-«%v\\w
#fA •
* V M!
dHtJII
*. 1'
*
%
/T«
*5
3k
\\hllhiiA
'n. 'Vv V . \
M'
llv f
\
Aw\
M Q-
u
I 111 l
V.VO
VA \>\
(•• '
f///
l'"
* «
W V
t r *
Something
the others
haven’t got
and only
\v ' \
contain
BENZOL
5/ces«
IMPROVES STARTING, PERFORMANCE AND MILEAGE
BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED, formerly The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd
