

The Bulletin
"Natasha the Dancer” —poge 32
Wednesday, June 18, 1958
Price !/•
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered In Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


WRITE FOR
PROFIT!
It YOU have the urge to write, you can
learn to write Successful Stories, Articles,
Written Sketches, Radio Talks, Tars, Verse,
etc. There is a large, and constant demand
for well-written work.
STOTT’S Training will provide you with the
assistance and knowledge of highly-qualified and
txpei ieneed Instructors.
Mrs. J. Penna gained £7O Tor Short Stories
sold while still engaged on her Course.
Mrs. L King was paid £2l for her S>th story.
Wbst these students have done, YOU can
do. If you would like information about
our Courses in Story Writing, Freelance
Journalism, etc., post the Coupon today.
* Stotts CorrespondenceCoi'ecje
100 Russell St.. Metbaurne; 149 Caatlereagfe St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 81 Grenfell
St., Adelaide ; 264 Marray St., Perth.
-—— CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON —-
To STOTT’S: Pleas* send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars ot
your Literary Courses.
M¥ SAME
ADDRESS
AGE <S.B. 125*)
IiOOHHtM'KR, Hex 2671. G.P.0.. SSjrdae/r
A t»ervhp far readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find 5t for you—fictioa,
text book, biogrrapby, history, etc. Moderate
fee oaiy if successful.
The Red Page
REPORT ON AMERICA
Undoubtedly the greatest obstacle to
understanding among the English-
speaking peoples is the fact that we
all speak the same language. There-
fore we expect each other to behave,
not precisely as we do ourselves, for
we have our own faults when we
remember them; not precisely as the
English, for they are much too polite
and much too rude; certainly not like
the Americans, because they speak the
language with the wrong accent and
eat too much ice-cream: but in accord
with some quite mythical standard,
some Platonic ideal, of Anglo-Saxon
perfection.
If the Italians or the French or the
Hottentots are noisy, vulgar, illiterate,
too numerous and in general too
impossible we may note the fact, but
not with the particular edge of criticism
we reserve for the peoples who speak
English. It is understood that all Euro-
peans (except the Irish, who are
expected to be English) are foreigners
and have the right to be absurd, even
criminal, and usually we are charmed
by their eccentricities. In point of fact
this reviewer has never seen anybody
eat so much ice-cream as did a fat lady
in the train between Venice and
Lugano; but she was an Italian, and
one never dreamed of feeling somehow
ashamed of her as one did of the
aggressive South African woman in the
same train who kept roaring at the
porter and demanding to see “the
chief” because they had put her in
the wrong carriage.
To take one example from Geoffrey
Dutton’s fascinating States of the
Union (Chapman and Hall), which has
prompted these profound if not entirely
original observations, nothing in the
world could be worse, as Geoffrey
Dutton knows very well (wasn’t his own
car looted on the wharf at Fremantle
after he had driven it unscathed across
the world in his last travel-book?), than
arriving at any Australian port and
hanging-around in the dreary, gloomy,
dirty Customs sheds; or, if anything
could be worse, it would be to go ashore
at Naples and promptly be swarmed
upon by two-hundred beggars trying to
sell you fountain-pens, their sisters and
a trip to Pompeii; but when Dutton gets
to New York he expects a perfection
which he would never demand in
Europe and which, for the moment, he
forgets could never be found in Aus-
tralia:—
After this magnificent overture,
the first act of entering New York
is a sore falling-off. One stands
before this city of towers and gleam-
ing windows as before a cathedral,
awed and waiting to see further
beauties inside. But no carved
doors flank one’s entry, no columns
meet above one’s head; there is only
the shambles of the Customs shed,
the scramble for a taxi . . .
Or again:—
American tourists have a unique
capacity for absorbing trivial infor-
mation. When we went for a trip
on the Mississippi in a paddle-
steamer we drowsed off to the steady
burble of the guide talking over the
loudspeaker, missing such useful
knowledge as: “That tug over there
is the General Jackson. She is eighty-
two feet long and she has a sixteen-
foot beam and a draught of six feet.
On your right you will see the largest
peanut-cracking factory in the world.
The chimney is one hundred and
fourteen feet nine inches high.”
It is the word “unique” that is unfair.
One of this reviewer’s greatest difficul-
ties in life has been to avoid being told
the number of rivets in Sydney Harbor
Bridge. Any Harbor trip in the show-
boat will subject the traveller to just as
much useless information; and are
there not hostesses and loudspeakers in
Italian buses, vampires in every
cathedral and art-gallery, and even in
England, if you are not careful, kindly
porters to tell you where Shelley sat
at Eton?
One makes the point because
Geoffrey Dutton, though trying his
hardest to be fair, does seem on the
whole to be too critical of America;
and because he is so convincing in
many of his criticisms; and because
any of us who went there, including
the reviewer, would undoubtedly make
exactly the same sort of observations.
It is inevitable. They speak English.
They ought to be like us; or, rather, not
like us, but perfect. But they should,
really, if only one could achieve the
detachment to do it, be treated as
foreigners. Who cares if Italian
children, gathered from all the
neighborhood, run pounding through
the house? Who would ever criticise
the Italians for eating standardised
foods (spaghetti), or the Chinese for
eating rice, as we all criticise the
Americans for eating canned beans?
But for the rest, precisely because it
is America as a travelled and cultivated
Australian must see it, and because
America is so important to the future
of the world, and because Australian
civilisation tends to develop sp much
on similar lines, with the same demo-
cratic virtues and the same perils of
commercialism, standardisation and
ugliness, this is indeed a fascinating
book, and the more so because Geoffrey
Dutton really did see the country,
travelling 12,000 miles of it by car,
seeing lonely fishermen and farmers as
well as the crowded cities, meeting
hummingbirds, chipmunks and Frieda
Lawrence as well as tycoons and taxi-
drivers, seeing the factories, the homes,
the mountains, the deserts and Holly-
wood.
The book is organised, sometimes a
little awkwardly, but very intelligently,
into a series of essays on such subjects
as “The Crack-up,” “Emotional Com-
munism,” “Cities,” “Negroes, Indians
and the South,” “Nomad America,”
and “Get Up and Go versus Give It
a Go,” and as a whole it amounts to
an enquiry as to how the individual
survives in the midst of mass-produc-
tion. His conclusion is that “For all
American bigness, the small, inde-
pendent man survives as he cannot in
Russia and China” and that, with auto-
mation, the American will increasingly
have leisure to develop as an individual.
"Australian Letters"
If Richard Aldington’s review’ of
Kenneth Slessor’s poems in the South
Australian quarterly “Australian
Letters,” No. 3, does not quite satisfy
one’s feeling of what so eminent a critic
should say about our finest poet, it is
not Aldington’s fault—it is a charming
essay, and remarkably penetrating for
a reader who has come new to Slessor’s
book. But Slessor’s poetry has to be
put away in a mental drawer for
several years, there to exhale its
peculiar fragrance. And then again,
{Continued on page 58)


There are few industries not served by DAVID BROWN products
DAVID
BROWN
and the
Jodrell Bank
Telescope
The Foundries Division of David Brown cast the bearing housings in which the 250' diameter
paraboloid reflector is set and General Gear Division, Park Works, manufactured the final driving
gears which enable the 2,000-ton structure to be revolved with minute precision and control
around the circular track of 360’ diameter.
The new radio telescope at the Jodrell Bank Experimental Station, Cheshire, is the largest and
only automatically steerable radio telescope in existence, reaching out into space a distance of
1000 million light years. Notable performances to date have been the tracking of the satellites
in their orbits around the earth. The telescope in itself is a marvellous feat of construction and
one in which David Brown played an important role, for whenever the telescope revolves or
changes its position, it moves in or by means of components made within the David Brown
organisation.
In the farming field David Brown also shows the way with a fine record of achievement and
enterprise. David Brown tractors are continually setting new standards of performance, power
and economy, and thus meet the needs of more farmers than any other tractor
on the market. The range includes 18 wheeled and crawler models from 12 to
50 h.p. and over 60 matched implements. You nam^the job David Brown
will do it.
HELICAL SINGH REDUCING OK INCREASING GEAR UNITS
HEUCAL DOUBLE OR TRIFLE REDUCING GEAR UNITS
GUTOMOBILi AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLE GEARBOXES
FATENTED WORM GEARS
GEARS Of ALL TYRES
ROLOID GEAR FUMES
COVENTRY GEARED MOTORS
KEIGHLEY STOCK SFUR GEARS
FROFILt GROUND HOBS AND GEAR GENERATING CUTTERS
RATENTED FLOATING REAMERS
. ‘fOUWRIfcS-DIVISION y.
fENISrONt-.^EAP..
AyioMO'aat t»tA«Boy*:jiv:siqN
-h(uo'r>«*sfixto
£fcNfc«Ai- GEAR Orvii-ON
V. rfUOOWSHHff
TOOIID'VIStO*-
HOOOEjIjFIttO
THE DAVID BROWN GROUP OF COMPANIES
AUi'OMOB’I-fc. (VIA* QiViStON
, «ur>owvfiEiJ>
MANCHtSTf*'
MACHtNf tOCI e.viS'QN
' MAN(*.H£SIM .
; , tOlNß'JfiCi'H
EgaaBBBHBa
■jr&s * nxrvMts
6 EAR HSIIN* eQUIM&n
HYDRAX nOOUCUOH GiAR mom/w hacmin f
!«/* *WO HfUCAL GEAR AND VUNI NOBBING
At AC Hi Nil
GtAR WAVING HACMINti
Mtl/tVIH* LAI Mi
1 ALLOY Ah
AIRCRAFT >
ALLOY AND CARBON STUB C AWt*9%
srffi c^rrwai
AMCJMff SIM CASTINGS
HHCtSION CASTINGS
tAURUS BRON2I CASTINGS
HtAVY DUTY QtARS
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL IRACTQBG
aiDUSTRIAI AW HARM gNG/NSS
FARMING IMfLEMCNTt
ASTON MARTIN CARS
LAGONDA CARS
\A
w,
rs
aw
DB2C.FP
DAVID BROWN (A/ASIA) PTY. LIMITED
Cnr. Derby and Watharill Streets, Lidcombe, N. S.W.
Australian smciatt el the werld-femsvs DAVID BROWN 6IOUP OF COMPANIES


The Bulletin
Wednesday, June 18, 1958
Vol. 79—No. 4088
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adam#
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
WASTED WATER
r T''HE rapid progress of the Snowy
A Mountains scheme, under public
control but mainly with private-
enterprise contractors doing the work,
provides a lesson for Australia in what
may be done with water.
This country is the least-watered
continent; the one in which waste of
water can be least afforded. Yet much
water —liquid gold—is being allowed
to run away year by year without being
made to work.
Some of the reason for this lies in
lack of co-ordinated thinking and link-
age of means of development—irriga-
tion and power and transport—all of
which can be made to work together.
It is remarkable that while irrigation
is limited to a few well-advertised
centres like the Snowy Mountains and
the Murrumbidgee, the product of the
northern rains continues.to run to waste
for the most part —the Burdekin area has
only 30,000 acres irrigated—in the pro-
cess sometimes wreaking huge destruc-
tion on the countryside over which un-
checked floodwaters spread themselves.
Outside the Snowy Scheme, which
should ultimately, apart from power-
production, irrigate and turn into a
closely settled area a district the size
of Denmark capable of carrying a
million or so people in modern comfort,
the thoughts of Governments are largely
concerned with water-schemes to serve
not zoned production but huge capital
cities like Sydney, which is ringed with
dams already; these (including the
new Warragamba project) supply little
water for primary production rela-
tively, and scarcely any hydro-power.
It is a matter for pride that Aus-
tralian brains can plan and workmen
can create such huge works, but there
are those who have their doubts whether
such efforts would not be better placed
elsewhere than on the fringes of great
and growing cities devoted to primarily
non-productive activities. Water seems
to be too precious an asset to squander
on lawns in a land where the bulk of
the export-income relies upon its avail-
ability and in which industrial progress
of some regions depends on its being
conserved and applied to power-
production.
There seems to be no real national
policy in the matter for the simple
reason that each State has a different
viewpoint and different objectives, and
each is tied by the need to provide large
quantities of unproductive water for
the overgrown capitals.
This, of course, is not apparent on
paper. It might seem from the tables
of projected works that immense pro-
gress was being made, whereas in fact
there are only 16 or so major works
completed and some of the dams not
yet filled for the first time.
The biggest have yet to come, and
are in areas which need them less than
some districts where no effort has so
far been made to turn a sod. Queens-
land, for instance, has only one dam in
any way comparable with the big
N.S.W. and Victorian ventures —the
Stanley River Dam, which has a
capacity of 551,700 acre-feet and which
is designed for the water-supply of
Brisbane and Ipswich.
Such projects as the Burdekin scheme
(which aims for a capacity of 6,584,000
acre-feet and which would hold 16
times as much water as Sydney Harbor)
are still in the dreaming-up stage.
N.S.W. is backward for a reasonably
closely settled State. Such compara-
tively minor works, by world and
Snowy Mountains standards, as Glen-
bawn (296,000 acre-feet) and Keepit
(345,000 acre-feet) have been drifting
along for years, their plans revised
more than once and the pile of excuses
for increased costs and delays now
almost as high as the walls themselves.
tULL utilisation of the Snowy waters
when available depends on progress
made by the N.S.W. Government,
Under present plans 150,000 acre-feet
will be available in N.S.W. next year
from Adaminaby for irrigation in 1959.
It is expected that an additional
200,000 acre-feet will be on offer to
the Murrumbidgee area by 1962. The
plans envisage the supply of still
another 500,000 acre-feet via the Tumut
River; but this depends on the con-
struction of the Blowering Pond, a
responsibility of N.S.W.; and, although
this has been apparent for years and
the time is approaching when the water
will be available, the construction of
this work hasn’t even been finally
authorised by a muddling Government
which is in the toils of endless financial
troubles over other dams and spends a
great deal of time thinking-up excuses for
the mess it has got itself into with them.
One excuse is the changes in the
Glenbawn design which have turned an
original plan for 113.000-acre-foot
capacity into a 296,000-acre-foot-
capacity reservoir, which seems to
suggest lack of forethought in the
beginning, while the cost is attributed
to rising costs in general, the effect of
which certainly would not have been
felt if the job had been pushed ahead
and finished in reasonable time. Glen-
bawn was begun just after World
War 11, and its delayed construc-
tion and soaring cost illuminate the
reasons why the land under irrigated
culture went up only 220,000 acres
during the boom five years 1950-55 and
why there are less than 2,000.000 acres
under irrigated culture in a continent
of 3,000,000 square-miles, according
to the “Commonwealth Year Book”
figures. The growth in the five years
was mainly in Victoria. There was
scarcely any change in N.S,W. and
Queensland. Two-thirds of all Aus-
tralian irrigation is on the Murray and
Murrumbidgee systems.
It is amazing that with all its needs
and all its waste seasonal water
Queensland has only about 150.000
acres of effective irrigation and S.A.
only about 100,000 acres, if that.
T>ESEARCH-BODIES of the Com-
v monwealth are working on the prob-
lem. But it is unfortunate that the main
responsibility for control of water-
resources rests with the States—a
strange anomaly, since watersheds and
rivers know nothing of Section 92 or
any other section of the Commonwealth
Constitution dealing with State borders
and rights.
Limited Commonwealth-State agree-
ments have been made, mainly affect-
ing the Murray River and adjacent
catchment-areas, and there are border
agreements between States such as that
existing between N.S.W. and Queens-
land. But there is no national scheme,
and water-conservation with State
Governments, especially Labor State
Governments, is a Cinderella issue,
since it does not buy votes in suburban
industrial districts and is only politi-
cally useful when Labor-voting towns
are affected by floods or water-flow.
Hospitals, schools and lotteries are far
more popular issues.
Thus great water schemes like the
Burdekin and the Clarence, which
would revolutionise tracts of land
the size of major European countries,
remain neglected.
With modem equipment for large-
scale excavation and the cleaning-out
of the clogged-up rivers of the interior
there need be no bar to wide expan-
sion of the present water-conservation
schemes if they are put into an
overall Australian plan based on the
aspiration of regional development
wherever large quantities of water are
going to waste. They should be
specially the province of the Common-
wealth in view of their potential link-
age with immigration schemes and
plans for distribution of population
with national security in view.


THE MINISTER FOR THE SAHARA


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Dangers of Peace
One encouraging development from the
crises in France and elsewhere is the
more modest outlook of Washington on
the question of whether it can run the
world, and a new amenability to reason
■ in the State Department.
It is certainly time that the agreement
which seems to have been arrived at
between Mr. Macmillan and the Ameri-
can Government was reached. Nothing
stands between the domination of the
entire world by the Communist bloc save
British-American might—united might,
since the power of Britain, with a grow-
ing strategic bombing-force and types of
defence about which it rarely speaks, is
something to be reckoned with. Especi-
ally is the little country strong in research
on the material side and in intestinal
fortitude on the moral side.
To a Communist world which never
learns, the London bus-strike and other
industrial disturbances look like revolu-
tion in its beginnings, but if Moscow
made an obviously aggressive move
there would be a monolithic attitude of
resistance among the British within five
minufes.
One of the healthiest features of the
present situation is the now open recog-
nition by the British Government of the
fact that Russia and China between them
have learned enough abroad and accumu-
lated enough skill at home to be able to
reconsider the idea of winning the world-
revolution by violence in favor of winning
it by economic means.
Mr. Macmillan says —and, knowing his
cautious nature, he believes it—that no
armed aggression against us is likely
because of the mutual strength of the
Nato nations. But he wonders “if we
are equally well equipped and organised
to meet the challenge of Soviet propa-
ganda, subversion and economic pene-
tration now gaining volume and
momentum.’’
There is little need to wonder. In the
first place the Western attitude to such
attacks can only be defensive because
Western nations concede freedom of
trade, travel, propaganda and business-
dealing to everybody, including avowed
enemies whose aim is to destroy the
Western system and conceptions of free-
dom. No such freedoms exist in Russia.
There are thousands of long-hairs, traitors
and plain narks in Western countries
freely doing, against their own countries
with the help of the “capitalist” press-,
things for which they would have been
shot years ago if they had attempted to
do them against Russia within Russia.
The West is at a disadvantage in an
economic war once Russia has the mate-
rials of trade, because the Russians can
use low wages or slave-labor to produce
goods for competition in world trade,
while the Western countries are compelled
first of all to consider the comfort, wishes
and maintenance of high living-standards
of their own people. Any Government
in the West which attempted to meet
Russian competition in the economic field
by Russian methods would soon be
down the drain.
If Khrushchev considers that he is reach-
ing the point at which he can win world-
domination by economic means he could
blandly come to a summit conference with
a solution which the Western Powers
might be compelled by an incautious
world public-opinion to accept: one which
would render most of the vast defence
expenditure futile, but which would also
give the U.S.S.R. a clear run to swamp
Western markets with cheap, slave-pro-
duced goods backed by a new splurge of
cunning propaganda.
Under some circumstances, peace with
Russia might be more dangerous than
the state of belligerence which has kept
the West standing to arms during the
past few years. It is to be hoped that
the Western Powers will go into any
summit conference with this fact clearly
in view.
Convention at the Alice
The Graziers’ Federal Council will
be holding its annual convention this
year at Alice Springs. The 17 delegates
from each of the six States and the North-
ern Territory will get down to business
on July 15, under the chairmanship of
the council’s president, G. W. Mcllroy.
It will be the first time since the council
was formed (in 1891) that a convention
has been held in the N.T.
The Graziers’ Federal Council is an
influential body, and the mere fact that
its annual convention is being held in
the Northern Territory has significance.
It will serve to remind politicians and
public that we have territory to the north
which, for reasons of defence if for no
other, should be developed as quickly and
effectively as possible. It might even be
argued that some of the defence surplus
could profitably be diverted there, not
necessarily for military establishments,
but with long-range defence needs in
mind. And if some of the frittered mil-
lions had been diverted there ...
But the immediate significance of the
venue is the growing importance of beef.
Australia has long had an unbalanced
economy, and recent drops in export-
prices have reminded us sharply of the
dangers of relying on one or two com-
modities for the bulk of our national
income. The outlook for beef —provided
we can supply the right kind, in the
right quantity—seems reasonably bright at
the moment. But problems of quantity and
quality are rather more easily discussed
than solved. Everyone seems to know
what should be done, in broad outline,
to tap the really great reserves of pro-
ductivity in the northern cattle-country,
but there is the usual conflict concerning
method: and for any imaginative, large-
scale effort there is an acute need for the
sinews of war.
The Graziers’ Association of N.S.W.,
the United Graziers’ Association of Vic-
toria, the Graziers’ Association of River-
ina, the Graziers’ Association of Victoria,
the Stockowners’ Association of South
Australia, the Pastoralists’ Association of
West Darling, the Pastoralists’ Associa-
tion of Western Australia, the Tasmanian
Farmers’, Stockowners’ and Orchardists’
Association, as well as the Northern
Territory Pastoral Lessees' Association
(which normally represents N.T. interests
on the council) are all federated associa-
tions of the Graziers’ Federal Council.
Delegates to this convention will have an
opportunity to see for themselves some-
thing of the potentialities of the area,
and to absorb something of local opinion.
The results could be good.
Merit Indeed
The Bulletin congratulates Sir Mac-
farlane Burnet, who has been director of
the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute in
Melbourne since 1944, on his admittance
to the Order of Merit, which has only 24
members in the British Commonwealth
and is designed as a special distinction for
men and women who have contributed
singularly to human knowledge and
affairs.
It is truly a wonder that he has achieved
his high distinctions working almost
exclusively in his native country ; but he
has written books and many papers which
have won renown and placed him among
the world’s leading authorities on virus
diseases.
Some authorities consider his research
into influenza as the most advanced in
the-world, and his work has been respons-
ible for progress in the control of polio
and German measles and other virus
diseases.
The only other Australians who have
received the award are the late Professor
Gilbert Murray, the classical scholar, and
the late Professor Samuel Alexander;
and among the recent recipients of the
order are Alanbrooke, Attlee, Chatfield,
Cadogan, T. S. Eliot, Churchill and
Professor George Moore.
Sir Macfarlane Burnet is at present
lecturing on his work in the U.S.
Maoriland's Troubles
Readers of the fortnightly reports from
New Zealand by The Bulletin’s Wel-
lington correspondent will not have been
surprised at the weekend visit of Prime
Minister Nash to Australia on a mission
of economic urgency.
The fall in the price of dairy-produce
has rocked the N.Z. economy, and it
is unfortunate that wool should have
slumped at the same time.
New Zealand has had to meet dump-
ing of European butter on the U.K.
market, and the price there has dropped
to well below the cost of production.
The Dominion is rapidly running-out
of overseas funds, and import-quotas
have been slashed, to the detriment of
exporters to N.Z. and the N.Z. con-
sumer. The upset has even extended
to N.Z. manufacturers depending on
overseas raw materials, such as iron and
steel.
Maoriland’s predicament illustrates
the susceptibility of an economy ■'still
principally dependent on primary pro-
duction. In Australia we are dependent
on land industries, too, but our manu-


factures and raw materials give the
economy a better balance. Still, our own
funds abroacf have been hit by the general
fall in export prices, and warning-signals
are flying.
New Zealand is a good customer of
Australia’s, with the balance of trade
strongly in our favor, and most people
will be glad that the Commonwealth
has been able to grant some financial
aid —its nature still somewhat indefinite
—to its former partner in Anzac and
present partner in Anzus.
New Zealand has some reserve strength
in its general costs-level and in its
exchange-rate, which remains at par
with sterling, against Australia’s 25 p.c.
depreciation. But it has also an unrealis-
tic social-services structure, and there will
be some hard thinking about all of these
things during the next few months.
Another Renshaw Plan
If any innocent bystanders happened
last Wednesday to choose the annual
conference of the N.S.W. Shires’ Associa-
tion as a suitable place and occasion
for practising their harmless and at
times instructive hobby they were no
doubt surprised at the hostile reception
accorded the offer of the Minister for
Local Government to ask the Govern-
ment to appoint a commission to investi-
gate local-government boundary changes.
On the face of it Mr. Renshaw’s offer
seemed quite a fair one.. His proposed
three-man commission was to consist of
a representative of the Shires’ Associa-
tion, a representative of the Local
Government Association (i.e., the munici-
palities) and an officer of the Local
Government Department. But the trouble
was that, unlike innocent bystanders, the
shire-councillors were a bit too long in
the tooth to take Ministerial proposals
at face-value. Many of them had argued
this matter with Mr. Renshaw before,
and they suspected a catch in it. They
soon discovered what the catch was —
the two associations were not to have
the right to nominate their representatives
on the commission ; they would merely
be asked to submit panels of names from
which the Minister would make a choice.
A sub-committee of the two associa-
tions had already made its own recom-
mendation for a commission, but the
Minister would have none of it. The
sub-committee proposed a four-man
commission. Three of the members
would be as in Mr. Renshaw’s plan —
with the vital difference that the repre-
sentatives of the associations would be
directly nominated by the associations.
The fourth member would be the chair-
man, and must be “a person of standing
and integrity with training in the sifting
of evidence.”
The Shires’ Conference strengthened
this recommendation by insisting that the
chairman should be a judge of at least
District Court standing and it also called
upon the Minister to halt all moves for
amalgamations until after the appoint-
ment of the commission.
Mr. Renshaw’s next move will be
awaited with interest. Even if he merely
intends to go ahead with his own parody
of a commission he can scarcely refuse
the request to stay his hand on boundary
changes already contemplated—particu-
larly those which have evoked such bitter
and widespread protests from the shires
in the Central West.
Back to the 1890's
The unwieldy gathering of 700-odd at
the A.L.P. Conference in N.S.W. gave
an enlightening preview to anyone think-
ing of trying to vote a Labor Government
into power again either in N.S.W. or in
the Federal Parliament.
It was a continual slang-whanging
struggle, swaying this way and that,
between the so-called “Rights” and
“Lefts” in electing an executive and carry-
ing various strange resolutions, some of
them in conflict with the A.L.P. platform.
The battles were fought tooth-and-nail,
with no holds barred, and neither hitting
below the belt nor kicking, so to speak,
was considered bad form.
The jubilation at the presumed narrow
ascendancy of the Rights was pale on
their side, for long experience has told
them the weaknesses of their own intes-
tinal regions and the Trojan Horse nature
of Leftist methods. They are well aware
that when they have “won” they will find
that they haven’t really won at all,
because a number of the Rights which
they have included in their phalanxes will
turn-out after victory to be really Red-
anting Lefts.
Politicians generally were at a discount
during the conference except for Dr.
Evatt, whose speech was something that
would have come more fittingly off a
cracked gramophone disk in the Trades
Hall Museum.
It resurrected all the cliches of 1890 or
thereabouts, and served them up appar-
ently under the impression that the new
electorate he proposes to stand for is 70
years behind the times.
It did not sound like a production by
Dr. Evatt, but like an effort by the late
Bill Scadden or somebody else long dead
and forgotten dressed-up in Dr. Evatt’s
authority. He certainly didn’t exhibit th~e
knowledge that a modern Leader of the
Opposition should have ; for in advocat-
ing anti-trust laws and accusing coal com-
panies in particular of making immense
profits he was apparently oblivious of the
fact that coal-company profits are limited
by legislation. Nor has he apparently
seen the piles of coal which at some mines
are at grass. Neither has he noticed the
vast changes which have come over the
coal industry, the improvement in work-
ing-conditions, the amenities in coal
towns, the mechanisation and the pros-
perous -state of the coal-centres where
TV-aerials are beginning to grow into a
forest even before there is a TV-station
in the district.
His plan for Commonwealth legislation
to deal with trusts which are supposed to
be sucking the lifeblood out of the worker
at a time when prosperity and high spend-
ing are universal is outmoded by over
half-a-century. And his dictum that “the
root-cause of inflation is the almost unre-
stricted profiteering that is going on in
our community” gives a glimpse of Evatt
the economist in his true colors —the
Evatt who a few years ago was advocat-
ing the Douglas Credit system.
As a political acrobat' Dr. Evatt is
indeed a trier, but his clumsiness robs
his performance of virtuosity, and it is
a tribute to the lack of humor of the
so-called A.L.P. that it seemed to get
no fun out of his burlesque of a horny-
handed old-time Labor leader.
The Mighty Atom
[From Li. OwenJ
The Symposium on the Peaceful Uses
of Atomic Energy made direct contact
with the Australian public through a
culled panel of five internationally
accepted experts —all of whom have spent
several years in specialised work on this
development of atomic physics.
At the Assembly Hall, Sydney, on
June 5, the five scientists on the platform
were labelled much after the style of
“Quiz Kids,” but, as the questions rolled
in, they quickly expunged that first
impression.
Rarely, the answers were a little high-
hat, but the summing-up of the chairman
(Professor J. P. Baxter) brought them
back to earth; rarely, also, the panel
talked-down to the audience; but the
chairman quickly joked them out of the
habit.
Professor Messel, on the chairman's
extreme right, couldn’t resist indulging
in scientific super-salesmanship and was
chaffed for it by his colleagues, but he
didn’t sacrifice accuracy even when (to
use his own words) he put his neck out
by making quantitative forecasts.
On Messel’s left, England's Dr.
Allibone charmed the audience by his
modesty and lucid understatement.
Separated from him by the chair, Mr.
Louis Roddis, from U.S.A., was concise
and clear, and self-effacing to a degree,
which was probably lost on those who
had no knowledge of his work.
Professor Myers sat on the extreme
left, and it was unfortunate that there
were so few questions dealing with metal-
lurgy—on the correct application of
which success in the practical utilisation
of the energy of the atom depends. When
he was called upon—as he often was
outside his specialist sphere—his com-
ments were a joy.
Altogether, the meeting, for a scien-
tific gathering, was a remarkably happy
occasion. As their questions proved, the
audience was knowledgeable and intel-
ligent, and it was a pity that some of
the answers were unnecessarily simplified.
For example, isotopes were likened
to buns containing more (or less) cur-
rants, but otherwise identical in all other
properties except weight. It would have
been well within the capacity of the
listeners to digest a definition such as
Isotopes consist of atoms of the same
element having the same chemical pro-
perties but differing in radio-activity and
mass,
and such a definition would have been
less liable to misinterpretation than the
analogy cited.


Society
"AND IT'S
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
A Sydney grocery has, in limited
supply, cans of chocolate-covered
fried ants, seasoned baby bees, fried
silkworms, cuttlefish (in own ink), boiled
quail-eggs, fried grasshoppers, fried zaza
insects (whatever they may be), salted
whale-skin, fried agave worms, octopus
on skewers, and roasted caterpillars.
Wonder who’s as hungry as all that?—
“Suitor.”,
*s*
“Bo”: In “A Face in the Crowd”
the Hollywood director was building-up
the hero into the toughest of tough
yeggs, a real spitter-outer of the bones
and belt-buckles of his chewed-up vic-
tims. And to show that he was about
to graduate to the ne plus ultra of hairy-
chested masculinity the director had him
heave his bulk into a chair and demand
that the bartender set up in front of him
about five fingers of raw rye and a
pint of suds. “A chaser!” admiringly
exclaimed his side-kick, registering suit-
able awe at this coming display of oak-
like callousity. Then he took a dainty
thimbleful of the whisky and followed
it with about an eggcupful of the beer —
it took about a dozen goes to get it all
down. Never has a celluloid-hero been
deflated so rapidly and so completely.
“Bicky”: “The Kiss of Death" is
Hollywood’s phrase for praise from high-
brow critics, but “Around the World in
Eighty Days,” still showing, is a case
where a film performs that service for
five people associated with its production
—actors Ronald Colman, Robert Newton,®
Buster Keaton, producer Michael Todd
and composer-conductor Victor Young,
who provided the background music.
“Sunray”: They must mean it because
it has been up for at least three weeks
on a notice-board outside the Congre-
gational Church at Milson’s Point
(Sydney). It reads: “Thank God For
Mother Hood.” *
*■ ❖ *
“Xavier”: First it was the writing-bug
that bit the guests at Victorian jails with
a crop of house-journals, staffed, edited
and produced by reporters with the
world’s narrowest range of contacts from
the world’s most secluded newspaper
offices. Now her Majesty’s establish-
ment at Bendigo has set a pattern for
theatre with a production of “Seagulls
Over Sorrento” at the city's main play-
house. Nine inmates of the big house had
acting roles; five were stagehands. The
producw and director was identified as
“Keith G.”, while nine jail officials went
along not only to see the play, but also
to watch the performers with more than
the usual first-nighter’s interest.
V V v
“Maitri”: Have received a handsome
brochure advertising the World Festival
in Brussels. It looks as if the cream of
the world’s culture is to take part in it,
though the dates for the Zagreb Opera
“have not yet been definited.”
<s*
“Roah”: I’m not a country-dweller,
but I discovered some years ago the com-
fort of the elastic-side boots Grandfather
wore .... so, sitting in the barber’s-chair,
I noticed considerable attention being
paid to my feet and, somewhat embar-
rassed, inquired the reason from my
friend the hairdresser. 1 was being
admired, he said. It seems that some
up-to-date magazine-article (how it got
so soon into a barber’s-shop I don’t
know), talking on London footwear,
said that because of Rex Harrison's
success in “My Fair Lady” elastic-side
boots are the very height of fashion for
men.
<* <* ❖
“Narumee”: She scanned the post-
party thank-you notes with a puzzled
air and then announced: “Well, I may
be old-fashioned, but I do think copper-
plate’s much rqore eligible than what they
teach them these days!”
♦>
T protest against the publication by
my Sunday-morning journal of a
series of photographs of H.M. the
Queen trying to pick a winner. I know
of no occupation that mars the serenity
of a face or imprints care on the coun-
tenance more quickly than the concen-
trated search of fdrm-guide or race-book,
and my best prayer for her Majesty is that
it may never do to her face what it has
done to that of one of her most loyal
subjects.—“P.O.M.C.”
“We heard about living on borrowed time , so Daddy and I thought. ..."
WELCOME AND DEPLORE
“A meeting of Sydney bookmakers welcomed
the S.T.C. ban on bookmakers at midweek
meetings because it would prove the necessity
of booKmakers to punters, and deplored ‘the
untold harm that the move will do the racing
industry.’ u
We bookmakers of Sydney
Don’t want to squeal and squeak
Though banished by the S.T.C.
In the middle of the week:
The ban will inconvenience you,
And also us, what’s more;
The situation thus is one
We welcome and deplore.
At first it looks like hedging;
You’ll think we’re not sincere ;
A simple explanation, though,
Should make the matter clear:
Were keen to take your money, •
Reluctant to restore —
Our lives are one continual grind
Of welcome and deplore.
Who wants to bet on Welcome?
Who’d like to back Deplore?
Welcome’s fiftyfive-to-one,
Deplore is five-to-four ;
So let us bookies start you off —-
A tip you can’t ignore —
We're plunging heavily each way
On Welcome and Deplore!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


ChE was laid-up in bed with a broken
leg; also was going to have a baby,
and far from well. When I asked
was her husband a good nurse (she’d
been a fully qualified matron) she
laughed, “Well, what would you, think of
a husband who brings you two half-cold
fried eggs and three rashers of bacon,
all swimming in fat, two rounds of toast
and a pot of weak tea, and stands there
until you push it all down and bring it
up again; then wipes your face and says,
‘Well, dear, you’ve had your breakfast’?
Then last week, during all that cold
weather, before going off to work he’d
snitch my hot-water bag and fill it afresh
for Skeeta [their Australian-terrier puppy]
saying, ‘You’ll be warm enough in bed,
and it’s freezing in the laundry.’ But
then,” she said, “he's terribly keen on
dogs.”—“Kate.”
* ♦s»
“Nunk”: I see by the papers that Mr.
Justice J. V. Barry with Messrs. Warwick
Fairfax, Kym Bonython and Gerard
Noall are patrons of a projected Aus-
tralian Museum of Modern Art for which
£5OOO is being sought in Melbourne —any-
thing, evidently, to keep the stuff out
of the house.
♦j*
“D.J.G.”: Our delicatessen has been
taken-over by a New Australian couple,
and has a brand-new sign across the
window: “Continental and Colonial
Foods”!
e*
“Roomy”: It’s strange that migrants
from really cold climates find Victorian
winters so trying (B. 14/ 5/’5B). In our
block of flats there were five families:
one Scottish, two English, one Polish,
one Australian (Queenslanders). Coldest,
bluest-nosed shiverers throughout Mel-
bourne’s winter were those from snow-
locked Lwow, closely seconded by the
Scots wha’ had fra’ Auld Reekie fled ;
next were ourselves, from freezing York-
shire; and the family from damp,
foggy Lancashire. The mob from Bris-
bane said it was cold, but they looked
fine and scorned our mufflers, fur-lined
bools and perpetually burning gas-fires.
♦> ❖ ♦>
“Jock”: A girl joined the North Shore
(Sydney) train at Artarmon, greeted a
girl from further up the line and began
discussing a party they had attended the
previous night. “A lovely party,” said
the first. “Y-e-s,” conceded the second ;
“but why does Mary always says ‘youse’?
If she does it again, 1 think I’ll say
‘lambs.’ ”
❖ * ❖
“Sevenelms”: “Fight the Good Fight”
(B. 14/5/’5B) should be sung with dis-
cretion. At a Melbourne Public Schools’
Headmasters’ Conference to consider
football spectator-brawling with public
streets as its extending battleground and
indulgent but ample press-coverage, three
recommendations were accepted: spec-
tators no longer to be segregated as
schools because this facilitated chorused
war-cries being hurled across the dividing-
fences ; boys to be warned that any
spectator-fight at a match would auto-
matically disqualify the two teams for
the rest of the season; and the two
Anglican schools at their chapel services
on the mornings of football-match days
should cease choosing Hynjn No. 540.
*X* ♦s*
“R.H.K.”: “Ex-Act” (B. 28/5/’5B)
reminds me. My typist addressed a letter
to “David Jone’s,” and another I heard
of began a letter with the salutation:
“Gentlemen?”
“Xayier”: When a fellow wage-slave
borrowed a few hundred from the firm
to help finance a house, the company tired
“I bet you say that to ALL the mermaids !"
of collecting a paltry £2 a week, the
agreed repayment-figure. So it got over
the problem by doubling the repayments
—after it had substantially increased my
colleague’s salary. And the increase still
stood after the loan was liquidated.
♦♦♦ *i*
“Roomy”: I’m still wondering what
kind of a party was on the evening two
young chaps pushed past me into the
doorway of a city restaurant. “Now,
don’t forget,” one was commanding the
other, “we’re out for a really good
dinner —don’t worry about the. girls . . .”
- *** ♦♦♦
“A.J.M.”: All blood is not red, and
science has spent millions in blood-
research. The dog in Sputnik II was an
experiment with respiration under extreme
pressures. Instead of red blood-pigment
(haemoglobin) of the “warm bloods,” the
lobster has haemocyanin (blue pigment).
Iron is the oxygen-carrier in human blood
but copper in haemocyanin. Yet it works
in the same manner. Several hundred
fathoms below the sea lobsters withstand
pressures of many atmospheres and sur-
roundings correspondingly lean of
oxygen. They are probably better fitted
for space-travel than those who are talk-
ing so much about it!
♦♦♦ *X*
“Dear Bill”: Talking of the Tunnel-
ling Co. (B. 23/4/’5B) —the officers
and N.C.O.s might be good miners
but not necessarily good parade-ground
soldiers. One officer, an engineer in civil
life, was giving us company drill. “At
the halt —on the halt,” he roared ; hesi-
tated, and then in desperation groaned,
“Oh, halt.” Then the old miner who had
been given two stripes because he had
persuaded some of his cobbers to enlist
with the Tunnellers marched his section
in from physical jerks and ordered:
“Mob stop. Front turn. Discharge.” The
orders were carried-out just as well as
those of other sections.
❖ *> ♦>
I
“Apemantus”: Sometimes, the police
find it difficult to make a charge, as at
Perth Police Court when the charge dealt
with received and resold stolen solder.
♦l* »> »>
“Dune”: Dr. Coombs, of the Com-
monwealth Bank, says the public doesn’t
examine its money very carefully; he
instanced a man who had a piece of
blueprint-paper and thought he was carry-
ing a fiver ; and a woman who tried to
cash the lining-paper from a cigar-box
under the impression that it was a U.S.
note of large denomination. I’ll take
his word for those cases, but wonder if


he’d been listening to some of the Old
Digger tales of Cairo, where some coves
were supposed to have lived the lives of
colonels on privates’ pay by cashing with
the Gyppos the labels from the tins of
Gold Mfedal milk from comforts-parcels.
Anyway, he may rest easy on my account.
Being married, I don’t have my notes long
enough to have a good look at them.
♦♦♦
“C.A.L.”: To reach the staff dining-
room employees must travel through the
display department, where replicas of
Roman and Grecian statuary stand in
plaster, mostly undraped, exciting no
more than a cursory, glance from the girls
and boys, men and women on their way
to and from meals. The display-manager
decided to experiment; he stood a large
piece of cardboard against a gladiator,
screening his lower half. Fully three-
quarters of the hundreds who passed the
statue tilted the cardboard to see what
it was hiding.
* * *
“Apemantus”: “A small office is no
good,” announced the very young com-
mercial gentleman to his still-at-school
admirers at the rear of the bus. “With
a big firm you get ahead quicker. In a
little place there’s only the boss —of
course, he doesn’t matter much —and
some old bloke about forty and a clerk
and the typist and you. And there you’re
stuck for five or six years till the old
bloke dies.”
“Hazel’s”: “No more puppy, no more
pie” is a byword on a country station.
Years ago their Chinese cook cooked so
delicious a repast that the diners asked
for a return-helping. “No more puppy,
no more pie,” said cook—and a little
later, no more cookie.
❖ ***
“W.M.”: Some time agodn Sydney the
N.S.W. Railways doubled the entrance-
fees to doors marked “Vacant” on its
stations. At Katoomba, in the Blue
Mountains, you can still get in for a
penny—but for heaven’s Sake don’t all
go bargain-hunting at once!
♦> ♦♦♦ »x«
“Ex-Banker”: The manager of a bank
in Suva was asked by one of his Fijian
customers for a small loan to cover his
wedding expenses, and granted it. But
the arranged limit was promptly exceeded,
so the bridegroom was asked to call at
the bank. He was most apologetic, but
explained that his expenses had been
higher than he had anticipated, as his
wife had presented him with twins on
the honeymoon.
❖ * _ ❖
“Croweater’T Tasmania’s Post Office
has only four stations left using the old
Morse telegram-instruments. Beginning
in 1857, the Morse-channels employed a
key, relay and Morse-register (moving
paper-strip) at each telegraph-office;
later the Morse-sounder was evolved and
signals read by sound. As children in
South Australia we used to collect out-
side the post-office window to look in
at the slow-moving brass wheel unrolling
limitless white-paper tape, or stand near
the counter, endeavoring to decode mes-
sages from the ticker. At that office the
postmaster delivered telegrams on a
three-wheeler he pedalled with his feet
and guided by a handle on each side.
The undertaker owned a similar foot-
pedalled turnout, but we never realised
our heart’s desire of seeing them streaking
along in a two-man race!
❖
“C.P.R.”: Customers who avail them-
selves of the bargains at our self-service
store (B. 28/5/’5B) certainly have to pay
cash, but the carrying is done by the
store’s delivery-vans. Often the goods
are delivered before the buyer reaches
home.
❖ * ❖
“Babbling Bookie”: Saw the ultimate
in friendly business in a Swanston Street
(Melbourne) hotel. Four barmen operate
in the saloon-bar, each to his own sec-
tion, and on the shelf behind each is a
neat name-plate: “Your barman —Ted
Smith.”
*!♦ ♦>
“Sevenelms”: S. J. Perelman in his
latest, Bite on the Bullet, is as usual
etymologically enterprising, but his
compositor has obviously done him
wrong where a man is described as “a
decent block.” In Chapter 2 the author
gets his local-color fouled-up when he
goes up-river in Borneo in a pirogue
with a Dyak crew speaking pidgin. He’d
have more chance of being sculled up the
Yarra in a gondola by abos. singing the
Glaswegian anthem.
“Oh, I am undone!"
AN OLD SPORT RETURNS
“A Melbourne model says that the most
trenchant criticism of the tight, short, knee-
revealing skirt comes from those who haven’t
the figures to wear them.”
Fifty years ago, when skirt
Served as well to sweep the dirt,
And some daring cove thought to reveal
the ankle.
Well, wouldn’t you guess that she
Who had beefy hocks would see
In the proposal plenty that would
rankle?
Now that skirts-above-the-knees
(Wearers love to do a freeze!)
Have moved from the designer to
reality,
Women with knobs and bony shanks
Will be foremost in the ranks
Of those condemning it as “im-
morality.”
Man, the contestants’ lord',
Can —-thank heaven! —well afford
To keep out; he is simply the supplier.
Though, mind you, could it occur
He’d been nameff the arbiter
He’d be inclined tb see ’em somewhat
higher.
But with philosophic bent
He is perfectly content
To reap the benefit (ignoring fusses
In the inter-feminine world)
And watch skirts become more furled
As the wearers try to step up into buses.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


INDUSTRY and THE RAILWAYS No. 2
M
mmm
■
y •**>
X
, x
■
11
US'.':-.
m
tm
fc
w
m
w
/
X
(
■'Wf
\
i^i
>, -
%
Jk j®i©Ka©eir of another age!
THE stockman saw the shape of things to come. The heavy industries, with their
roaring furnaces and towering smoke stacks, the clamour and clatter of Commerce,
belonged to the world that lay to the east, across the range. He was a citizen
of the outback, a man who moved in silence.
He was a pioneer of another age.
When Email Limited established a huge factory at Orange, an important step towards
the decentralization of industry was taken.
It was the step of an industrial pioneer of vision ... a demonstration of faith in
the destiny ,of a growing nation.
Of the 7000 people employed by the great Email Organisation about 1500 are
employed in this ultra-modern factory where once stock roamed unmolested. A wide
range of famous Westinghouse products flow constantly from its assembly line.
The role played by the New South Wales Government Railways in this successful venture has been
a vital one.
It was the Railways that freighted the components from which the factory was built,
the tools of manufacture, the raw materials.
For twenty-four hours in every day the wealth of New South Wales the
minerals of its earth the produce of its soil the manufactured goods
flowing from its factories are passing somewhere along its vast network.
The vital story of the decentralization of industry in this State is one in which the
New South Wales Government Railways has played—and is playing—a dominant part.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
RAILWAYS
mm
s.
■%-
Q
co
fo
&
loirnik


POLITICAL POINTS
Hobart is looking for a Public Rela-
tions Officer why, goodness knows.
What with the Orr case, the Turnbull
case and the Hursey case it seems to
be doing pretty well without one.
• •
After Prime Ministers Menzies and
Nash had finished their talks on Sunday
they issued a joint statement saying that
Australia would give special financial
aid to help combat New Zealand’s
economic problems. Expected measures
include the part-use of Australia’s Lon-
don funds and the acceptance by Aus-
tralia of some of the Dominion’s com-
mitments in the British Commonwealth
Strategic Reserve in Malaya.
• •
X X
There’s a move afoot at Tweed Heads,
on the N. S. Wales-Queensland border,
to secede from N. S. Wales and join
Queensland, presumably the better to
cash-in on the Gold Coast boom. New
State movements elsewhere have found
the road to freedom very hard, but this
attempt to swap States is a new one for
the Constitutionalists.
• •
Nearer to Sydney, in the rapidly
expanding municipality of Bankstown,
there’s another breakaway movement —
the areas comprising the south ward want
to form a new municipality. They realise
they’ve a hard job ahead of them as the
Cahill Government’s plan for local-
government aims at fewer and bigger
municipalities, not more and smaller.
Still, the proposed new council would
have more ratepayers than most of the
municipalities in the County of Cumber-
land. Its population already exceeds
50,000 and it’s growing fast.
• •
Just before the time fixed for the
declaration of the poll in Oakleigh, the
Victorian Assembly seat in which sitting
member Val Doube (A.L.P.) held a
narrow lead of 19 prirgary votes over
the combined total of his L.-C.P. and
D.L.P. opponents, the declaration was
cancelled and a recount ordered on the
application of the L.-C.P. candidate, W. X.
Downard. A recount was also granted in
Geelong West, where the first count
showed sitting member Macdonald
(A.L.P.) beaten by 66 votes.
• •
In neither case did the recount affect
the result, although both majorities were
reduced. Doube retained Oakleigh with
a majority of 15 over the other two
candidates*; Downard’s margin in Gee-
long West'was reduced to 24.
• •
If Dr. Evatt is right in his latest pro-
nouncement, then the trade-unions may
as well shut-up shop. He told the N. S.
Wales A.L.P. conference: ‘‘The truth
is becoming evident —high wages are due
to high prices.” This is letting the side
down with a vengeance. For years and
years the Labor movement has been
insisting that only the unyielding pressure
of trade-union leaders has raised wages
to the present level. And now the Doc.
is telling them that all their efforts have
been unnecessary ; the same effect would
have been achieved merely by raising
prices. It’s all very confusing. Presum-
ably when Evatt complains of excessive
profits and exorbitant prices his ultimate
aim is lower wages. That doesn’t make
sense, but, after all, why should it?
• •
After a series of setbacks the Hurseys
have taken a - trick at last. On Friday
in the Hobart Supreme Court they were
granted an injunction forbidding the
Waterside Workers’ Federation and 14
named members from preventing them
from working on the wharves. Chief
Justice Sir Stanley Burbury said the pur-
pose of the application for the order had
been to protect the plaintiffs’ alleged
rights in case it was held later that those
rights truly existed. He was satisfied that
they had made-out a case for the exis-
tence of those rights and that the rights
were likely to continue to be invaded by
unlawful acts. It was the duty of the
court to project those rights pending trial
of the claim.
The claim his Honor referred to is a
writ for £5OOO lodged by the Hurseys
against the federation and the 14 persons
named.
In Hobart forecasts of the probable
reaction of the W.W.F. to the judgment
range from “a reign of terror to force
the Hurseys off the wharves” to a nation-
wide hold-up. Meantime the Opposition
in the Tasmanian Parliament is to intro-
duce a bill to safegard the position of
men who, like the Hurseys, refuse to pay
political levies.
• •
Penrith Council has rejected an applica-
tion by W. V. McCall's Edinburgh Estates
for the subdivision of 140 acres taken
out of the green-belt by the Minister for
Local Government a short time ago;
council had previously protested that it
had not been consulted before the rezon-
ing. Its reasons for rejecting the applica-
tion are that it has received no plan to
show that the land has been rezoned as
residential and that the applicants did
not submit a contour-plan.
It was after advising the department
on this subdivision that senior planning-
officer Mcßae resigned from the depart-
men to become an associate-director of
Edinburgh Estates.
• •
The Newcastle seat in the House of
Representatives has been held by a Wat-
kins ever since Federation. David Wat-
kins, senior, won it for Labor in the
first Parliament and held it until his death
in 1935, when his son David won the
Labor nomination and the seat. Now
the younger David has decided to call it
a day after 23 years, and Alderman C. K
Jones, a former Lord Mayor of New-
castle, will carry the Labor banner at the
next election. However, those who still
want a Watkins will have their chance
of electing one. Alwyn Watkins, younger
brother of the retiring member, has been
chosen as the Liberal candidate. A
former district commissioner in New
Guinea, he is now secretary of the New-
castle Woolselling Brokers’ Association.
“I want another one-way special excursion-ticket for my friend here.”


Lang’s “Century” on politicians and
TV-technique: “The Australian Labor
Party anisational book of the British
Labor Party’s orgcould benefit by taking
a leaf out.” As a comment on Labor’s
current bewilderment those words could
hardly be bettered.
• •
The report of the caucus-meeting at
which Tasmanian Treasurer Dr. Turnbull
agreed to resign his portfolio after being
served with a summons on charges of
bribery said that Turnbull first suggested
that he should be relieved of his duties
for the time being, but “it was pointed out
that it was customary for members to
resign.” “Customary” seems a peculiar
word to use in the circumstances, but as
there were present at the meeting two
members who had withstood charges of
bribery it was probably the right choice.
Just how many precedents it takes to
establish a custom is a matter of opinion.
• •
Menzies in his weekly broadcast
reminded his listeners that out of every
£1 collected in income-tax 7s. was devoted
to paying for the cost of the last war.
In the current financial year the total
amount paid out of revenue for expendi-
ture directly produced by World War II
would be £164 million.
This is a point that is conveniently
forgotten by the easy-money cranks who
complain, “We were able to find money
for war, why can’t we find it for peace?”
As the P.M.’s reminder makes clear, the
war wasn’t financed on a pay-as-you-go
plan ; it is still being paid for and will
be a burden for many years to come.
• •
How far the A.L.P. was out in its
expectation that there would be ja big
leak of D.L.P. preferences in the Vic-
torian election was shown in the split-up
of votes in Prahran, which former Test
cricketer Sam Loxton retained for the
L.-C.P. Primary votes were: Loxton,
7798 ; Pettiona (A.L.P.), 7734 ; Haber-
man (D.L.P.), 2325. When Haberman’s
preferences were distributed, 1996 went
to Loxton and only 329 to Pettiona. The
“drift” from the official card was only
14 per cent. It's often bigger than that
when a Liberal- or Country-party candi-
date is odd-man-out in a three-cornered
contest.
*• •
Malenkov, Molotov and Beria, accord-
ing to the central committee of the
Communist party in Moscow, exercised
an extremely negative musical influence
on Stalin in 1948. Still, they had to face
the music later.
• •
Sir Clifden Eager, President of the
Legislative Council and retiring Indepen-
dent Liberal member for East Yarra, has
struck two snags: A.L.P. leaders have
rushed to his defence with embarrassing
warmth against Liberal complaints that
he is of no use to the Liberals; and,
noting which way the A.L.P. wind is
blowing, the D.L.P. has decided to give
its second preferences to the endorsed
Liberal, Dick Hamer.
The A.L.P. did not nominate for East
Yarra, the idea being to give Eager a
clear field to collar the anti-Liberal votes.
The D.L.P. countered this by making its
own nomination. John Galbally, A.L.P.
leader in the Council, says this shows
the D.L.P. is a party “without honor and
without principle, attempting to defeat
the democratic Parliamentary system by
putting candidates in the field without
hope of success.”
It all depends on what you mean by
success.
• •
Melbourne “Herald” made space avail-
able to the four parties contesting next
Saturday’s Legislative Council elections.
The Libs, denounced Evatt Labor ; Evatt
Labor denounced the D.L.P.; the D.L.P.
denounced Evatt Labor ; and the Country
party denounced its reputed cobbers, the
Liberals. What Victoria needs is an
editor Jn the back of the hall to shout,
“Never mind them ! Give us your
policy! ”
• • y
At a naturalisation ceremony in Bris-
bane, A. S. Hulme, M.H.R., who was
deputising for Immigration Minister
Downer, gave a few statistics to illustrate
the role of migrants in the community.
They comprise 10 per cent, of the popu-
lation and 20 per cent, of the work-force.
They provide 35 per cent, of the workers
in the steel industry, 40 per cent, in the
motor-vehicle industry and 66 per cent,
of those engaged on the Snowy Moun-
tains scheme.
• •
Nicklin’s promise of a Bill of Rights
for Queensland has led the N. S. Wales
Country party to renew its plea for an
amendment to the N. S. Wales Constitu-
tion to ensure that in all resumptions or
purchases by the State, or in any case of
interference with contracts, just terms of
compensation are paid and that persons
affected have recourse to a competent
independent court to determine the com-
pensation. “Just-price” is a principle
observed in Federal Government acqui-
sitions of land, but the N. S. Wales Labor
Government has consistently refused to
concede it.
• •
“Gelt”: Ex-servicemen with five years’
residence in Papua-New Guinea have
been told by Territories Minister Hasluck
they may now soon be able to enjoy the
privileges of a land-settlement scheme
and to borrow up to £25,000 at 3| per
cent, to provide working capital or what
is necessary to develop a tropical agri-
cultural undertaking. This is an answer
to a long-standing application by the
Territorian R.S.L. Legislation will be
introduced in September; native ex-
servicemen will be eligible to participate
in the scheme.
. . \
• •
From July 1, 1959, Australian cigar-
ettes will be required to contain 22 per
cent, of Australian leaf if manufacturers
wish to qualify for tariff concessions on
imported leaf. At present the percentage
is 15.5 per cent.
• •
Fadden’s successor as Country-party
candidate for McPherson will be chosen
by postal ballot closing on July 21.
Twelve candidates have nominated. For
the Wide Bay seat, held since 1954 by
* W. A. Brand, who is also retiring at the
end of the present Parliament, seven
nominations were * received. The ballot
was won by N. C. Bandidt, a solicitor,
of Monto.
• •
Melbourne may soon have a strike
that will be popular with motor-car have-
nots. The Tramways union objects to
proposed cuts in the Sunday tram-services
to the beaches, claiming it will mean over-
crowding and a reduction in thq number
of men employed. A round-table con-
ference of the management and unions
decided to make a check-count and to
talk it over again.
Tramways officials claim winter-load-
ings don’t justify 7}-minute services to
the beaches, but families waiting on
windy corners find the official breaks a
very long 1\ minutes.
• •
Somewhat below the altitude of summit
talks, two of Cahill’s Ministers have been
having ceiling chats. Landa, as Housing
Minister, wants the minimum height of
ceilings to be reduced to Bft. Renshaw,
as Minister for Local Government, sup-
ports the long-established 9ft., but says
he’s prepared to listen to the views of
experts.
One reasonably expert authority, Aider-
man Foster, of Woollahra Council, argues
that the lower figure has been accepted
elsewhere and that the Commonwealth
Experimental Building Station approved
it 11 years ago. He claims that with the
modern trend for bigger windows there
should be no problem of inadequate
ventilation and that the change could save
£2OO-£3OO on the cost of a cottage.
• •
At the beginning of June the employ-
ment officer at Bonegilla Immigration
Centre, near Albury, was able to report
that “the situation on the work front was
a very happy one.” He had just been
asked by a Sydney employer to find 150
workers, and there was also a request
from Mt. Isa for 100 men. The centre
was unable to meet the second request;
Mt. Isa would have to wait until more
migrants arrived.
• •
A hint of what may lie behind some
, of N.Z.’s economic problems has been
given by the representative of a
Japanese firm. Though N.Z. pine-logs
were cheap, the high cost of loading them
lessened their chance of competing suc-
cessfully with logs from Russia, he said.
One ship, which took 14i days to load
at a New Zealand port, was unloaded
in 20 hours at three Japanese ports.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Sketched and yarned with at Parlia-
ment House, Sydney, Sir Henry Manning
could till recently be dubbed “M.L.C.
with bar” (member of the Legislative
Council and chairman of Mutual Life
and Citizens’). He hafs now given-up the
Council (his term running out after 16 '
M.L.C. WITH BAR
years), but he retains his chairmanship
and is also chairman of Royal Naval
House and of the McCaughey Memorial
Institute.
He knew J. F. Archibald well, and
recalled an afternoon when, as he left
the courts about 4.30 p.m. after a hard
case, Archibald came up to him, urging
him to take off his wig and gown and join
him for a meal at Paris House. They
went in, and Archibald ordered a roast
chicken and a bottle of white wine
apiece. As they ate, says Manning,
Archibald delivered the most pungent
remarks on the behavior in court
of the presiding judge, to whom
Archie had taken a particular dislike.
Paris House has gone and with it roast
chicken and white wine at 4.30 in the
afternoon, and Archibald’s bitter, witty
tongue to spice them. But for a moment,
at least, 1958 and all that seemed as far
away, listening to Sir Henry, 81 years
young, recreating in his talk and other
ways the spacious days.
• •
“Sym”: Dr-. Thomas (Greg) Gregory,
one of the three new Fellows elected
by the Australian vets.’ association, is a
big, bluff fellow who looks like a good
companion, and is. With veterinary and
bacteriological degrees in Melbourne and
London, he practised first in New
Zealand, but returned to be senior lec-
turer in bacteriology at Melbourne
University, joined C.5.1.R.0. in 1937
and, apart from six years as a vet. with
the A.1.F., has been with the organisation
ever since. He has a long list of scientific
papers to his credit, chiefly on cattle
diseases. Among his more interesting
overseas trips was one in 1952 superin-
tending the export of cattle from
Pakistan to New Guinea, for the
C.5.1.R.0. experimenting in breeding.
• •
Birthday Honors:
0.M.:
Sir Macfarlane Burnet, director of the Walter
and Eliza Hall Institute, Melbourne, and
Professor of Experimental Medicine, Mel-
bourne University. (Only two other Australians
have been awarded the O.M. —Gilbert Murray
and Samuel Alexander; both professors,
respectively of Gre°k and of Philosophy).
G.C.M.G.:
Sir Arthur William Fadden, Federal
Treasurer since 1949 and, until March, 1958,
leader of the Federal Country party.
K.C.M.G.:
Peter Alexander Rupert Carirtgton, 6th
Baron Carrington, High Commissioner for the
U.K. in Australia since 1956.
Air Vice-iviarshai Sir Robert Allin enam
George, Governor of South Australia since 1952.
K.8.E.:
Air-Marshal Frederick Rudolph William
Scherger, Chief of Air Staff.
Kt.:
benjamin Thomas Edye, of Sydney, honorary
consulting surgeon to tne Royal Prince Alfred
Hospital, past-president of the B.M.A. (N.S.W.),
memoer ol the State Cancer Council and of
the Council of the Royal Australian College
of Surgeons.
Kennem Hamilton Bailey, of Canberra,
Commonwealth Solicitor-General since 1946.
John Carew Eccles, of Canberra, Professor
of Physiology at the John Curtin School of
Medical Research, Australian National
University.
Alexander James Reid, of Perth,
Chancellor of the University of Western
Australia.
William James Farquhar McDonald, of
Nevuapurr (Vic.), Speaker of the Victorian
Legislative Assembly since 1955.
Norman O’Bryan, of Melbourne, a judge
of the Victorian Supreme Court and chairman
of the advisory committee of St. Vincent's
Hospital, Melbourne.
Norman de Winton Robinson, of Melbourne,
chairman of the V.A.T.C. and managing-
director of Yarra Falls, Ltd.
Kenneth Barron Fraser, of Brisbane,
senior visiting surgeon at the Brisbane Chil-
dren's Hospital and senior consulting surgeon
at the Mater Misericordite Children’s Hospital,
president of the Queensland branch of the
B.M.A. and Honorary Surgeon to King George
VI, 1949-52, and to Queen Elizabeth, 1952-54.
Collier Robert Cudmore, of Adelaide,
member of the S.A. Legislative Council since
1953, prominent lawyer and businessman (he
was an Oxford rowing-blue, 1908-09).
• •
A knighthood in the Birthday Honors
to Dr. Ben Edye, of Sydney, has met with
wide approval. Apart from being one of
the most skilful surgeons N.S.W. has
known (and a B.M.A. past-president, hon-
orary consulting surgeon to R.P.A., St.
George and Rachel Forster hospitals, as
well as a member of the N.S.W. Cancer
Research Council), he is a most kindly
and likeable man. He was born in Orange
(N.S.W.), and did pharmacy before turn-
ing to medicine and going on to take his
F.R.C.S.
• •
“B.”; Thirty-odd years ago three young
Adelaide barristers formed the'legal firm
of Mayo, Murray and Cudmore. The
first of the three was raised to the
Supreme Court bench in 1942 and since
1948 has been Sir Herbert Mayo. Sir
Stanley Murray was knighted a couple
of years ago, and the hat-trick was com-
pleted last Thursday when Collier Cud-
more was created a Knight Bachelor.
• •
Edgar Holt, known round the map in
radio and TV as one of the “victims” of
“Any Questions?” was asked a few more
when he looked in on The Bulletin, and
confirmed that it’s all as advertised. First-
rate mental exercise, he said, for the panel
has no idea what question is going to be
asked till the question-master reads it
out. Then it’s necessary to decide what
angle to discuss and to form a beginning
and ending to the line of argument —and
time is short.
He’s had a versatile journalistic career
to fit him for this mental nimbleness,
with uncommon mobility for a leader-
writer —on the old Melbourne “Argus,”
Melbourne “Herald,” Sydney “Daily
Telegraph” and the old “Australasian,”
and he was the last editor of “Smith’s
Weekly.” A past-president of the A.J.A.,
he has also been a political columnist,
has committed poetry, once wrote a
“TOBY BELCH” by Himself
cooking-column under the pen-name
“Toby Belch,” and, as his unsparing
self-portrait indicates, he can do some-
thing in the way of caricature.
At present he’s in charge of Federal
public relations for the Liberal party.
• •
When he returns from his current pros-
pecting trip among New York shows
Harald Bowden, J. C. Williamson’s
general-manager in Sydney for nearly a
quarter-century, will take up his new


appointment as executive director with
the Firm. Starting in show-business 50
years ago, Bowden joined J. & N. Tait in
1913 as manager for John McCormack’s
Australian appearances. He represented
the Taits in New York in 1918 and 1919,
after managing the family’s first venture
in legit.—they had previously concentrated
on concert attractions. With the amalga-
mation of the Tait and Williamson
interests, he was appointed New York
representative in 1924, and held that post
until 1933. His sense of box-office values
was admirably demonstrated by his first
purchase for the Firm. Despite opposi-
tion, he decided to secure the rights to
“Rose Marie” on the opening night of its
New York season, and that show held the
long-run record in Australia until “Annie
Get Your Gun” claimed it. In the fields
of concert attractions, musicomedy, plays,
opera and ballet, Bowden has been asso-
ciated with a list of distinguished world
artists that reads like Who’s Who in the
Theatre.
• •
Harry A. Strachan, who takes over
from Harald Bowden as J. C. William-
son’s general-manager for New South
Wales, has had 32 years with the Firm in
all phases of the theatre business. He
started as a call-boy at Her Majesty’s
Theatre and wqrked up to a daytime head-
office appointment, meantime continuing
theatre work at night. He has travelled
all over Australia and New Zealand as
tour-manager and treasurer, and on the
Firm’s business to New York and
London. He was manager of the Empire
Theatre, Sydney, during its reconstruction
in 1953 and thereafter, until claimed by
head-office as assistant to the general-
manager and then assistant-general-
manager.
• •
Lieut.-Colonel D. B. Dunstan, instruc-
tor at the Australian Staff College,
Queenscliff (Vic.), is shortly leaving for
the United Kingdom for a two-year tour
as exchange-instructor at the Staff Col-
lege, Camberley. He was instructor in
military history at the R.M.C., Duntroon,
before going to Queenscliff.
• •
Warrant-Officer Daniel Joseph Hayes,
“marched-off” at Richmond (N.S.W.)
R.A.A.F. station barraged with cheers
from 2000 well-wishing airmen and air-
women, had tallied-up 36 years’ service in
the British and Australian forces. Enlist-
ing in 1922 in the Rifle Brigade (The
Prince Consort’s Own), he had served on
the Indian North-west Frontier before
he came here in 1929, joined the R.A.A.F.
the following year and was subsequently
on all Air Force stations in Australia,
including Richmond since 1953. Ending-
up as the senior W.O. in the R.A.A.F.,
and one of the best-liked that it has had,
he came from a service family. His father,
in the Royal Marines, lost his life in’
H.M.S. Hampshire in War I and his four
brothers have all served in H.M. forces—
two in the Royal Navy, two in the Army.
His mother was killed in a London air-
raid in 1944.
*‘Ek D.”: The Rev. Coles Alex-
ander Osborne, of St. Mark’s
Church, Darling Point, Sydney, and
formerly an assistant minister at
Sydney’s St. Andrew’s Cathedral,
can claim the unique distinction
of being the only Regular Army
major-general in Holy Orders in
Australia. Born in Kent and
educated at the Dover County
School, he joined the Honorable
Artillery Company at 18 for service
in World War 1, transferred to the
Royal West Kents (the old 50th
Foot, which had early associations
with Australian Military history)
and later joined the R.F.C. He was
wounded in action. At the end
ot the war he was commissioned
in the Indian Army in the letn
Sikhs, saw active service imme-
diateiy in the hot iittie
Afghan campaign of 1919,
ttie N.-W. Liontier opera-
tions of 1920-22 and 1939,
and the Palestine cam-
paign of 1938. In between
he came to Australia as
Instructor in tactics at
Duntroon ‘in the bleak
years of 1928-30. At the
end of his term he -married
an Australian, a daugh-
ter of R. H. Meares.
World War II was a busy
time for him —he com-
manded the old Ist Bom-
bay Grenadiers, was
Deputy-Director of Mili-
tary Training in India,
Commandant of the Staff
College at Quetta in the
crucial year in which Japan
came into the war; became,
in 1942-43, Director of
Military Training, G.H.Q.,
India and Burma, with
major-general’s rank; and
for the next two years
held the exciting Kohat District command.
Retiring at the end of the war to Moore
Theological College, Sydney, he was shortly
ordained. His speciality in the Church the care
of youth, his hobbies international affairs and
migration, he was chairman for a time of the
N.S.W. Migration Advisory Committee and has
been president of the N.S.W. branch of the
Institute of International Affairs. A quiet,
unassuming cleric, nobody who did not know
him would ever suspect him of having spent
most of his adult life as a man of war, prac-
tising his profession in the wildest military
areas in the British Empire.
1 • • i
John Chalmers, chief clerk of the Mel-
bourne branch of R. G. Dun and Co.,
mercantile agents, has called it a day
after 46 years and is off almost at
once for his native Scottish countryside
around Dundee and Perth for a holiday.
He should find some changes—he hasn’t
seen his native heath since World War I,
in which he suffered a severe leg injury.
Dun’s itself —a U.S. show with a
12-story head-office in New York—was
well established in Australia long before
young Chalmers joined to give a hand
in issuing mercantile intelligence. Actu-
ally, it was founded here as early as
1841, at a time when Abraham Lincoln
was one of its country agents in the U.S.
• •
“Uramao”: After serving the Union
and Australasia bank in their separate
and corporate capacities for 44 years in
London, Australia and New Zealand,
R. A. McDonald, Wellington (N.Z.) dis-
trict manager of the A. and N.Z. Bank,
at last considers he’s entitled to an age
of ease. He joined the Union in Victoria
and worked for it in various parts of
SOLDIER PARSON
Australia and at the London office, was
appointed assistant-inspector at Welling-
ton (N.Z.) in 1944, inspector in 1949 and
district manager in 1955. Successor to
him in Wellington is G. H. Bridge, from
the Melbourne office.
, • •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 78, Rt. Rev. A. L. Wylde,
Anglican Bishop of Batimrst.
In Adelaide, at 58, grazier Richard John
Legoe.
In Perth, at .76, Arthur Hullett, former
Traffic Superintendent, W.A. Tramways. A
New Zealander who moved to Westralia when
18, he was in France with the old 27th Bn.,
was for several years a member of the R.S.L.
State Executive, and was a foundation
committeeman of the Anzac Club.
In Sydney, at 90, Rt. Rev. Richard Collender,
Roman Catholic Vicar-General of Sydney, and
the oldest priest by ordination in Australia.
In Wellington, Jack Teddy, one of New
Zealand’s oldest and cheeriest wine-and-spirit
travellers —his smile and near-schoolgirl com-
plexion known in the trade for close-on 40
years.
In Adelaide, at 72, Sir Darcy Cowan, widely
known for his care and treatment of tuber-
culosis sufferers. A triple-blue at Adelaide
University (lacrosse, 1908; football, 1906;
tennis, 1909), he was also an A-grade cricketer.
In Honolulu, Lady Buck, widow of famous
anthropologist Sir Peter Buck (Te Rangi Hiroa),
head of the Bishop Museum there. Lady Buck’s
ashes will be taken to be laid alongside her
husband’s at Okoke, Taranaki (N.Z.).
At Auckland (N.Z.), at 84, Thomas Aubrey
Hall. An Oxford University man, he came
under the spell of Maori carving while in New
Zealand, and in Wanganui’s backblocks and
along its beautiful river studied ancient Maori
methods and patterns, becoming adept in their
carving, establishing a treasure-house of their
art and craft and doing much repair work
in N.Z. museums.


ABORIGINALITIES
When a fleeing doe throws away her
offspring (B. 7/5/’5B) she is working
for her own immediate safety, not the
youngster’s. On escaping she may rescue
him ; otherwise he must die.
This isn’t gross maternal selfishness ;
the doe has taken a calculated chance
and has the risk covered. She carries
insurance against race-suicide and against
the death of her husband, too. As soon
fls the doe bears a joey she takes care
to start another. This one she develops
Only a very little and then stores safely
away “in suspense” in a crypt evolved
for the purpose. Should fate catch-up
with the first-born before he’s weaned she
Stops lactating and then brings forward,
gestates and bears the reserve. Mar-
supials, elephants and seals have this
knack of delayed implantation, which is
handy for them and good for their
racial continuance.
The leading case is that of a kangaroo-
doe in Philadelphia Zoo. Exiled,
widowed, bereft of her suckling, utterly
alone amidst strangers, she suffered
great misunderstanding ; but it wasn’t that
at all—merely delayed implantation. It's
tough for a new-made widow to lose her
one offspring, but the lass is lucky who
can then give birth months outside the
calculated term and yet look her neigh-
bors clearly in the eye ; and there she
was, quietly minding her own business in
a censorious world while building up
evidence for the biologists.
Apemantus.
It is one of the marvels of marsupials
that the mother carries a spare embryo,
which develops to a certain stage and
then remains quiescent as long as there's
a joey in the pouch and suckling. The
W.A. University researcher who dis-
covered this —he was trying to find out
how the doe gave birth after being
separated from the male for longer than
the accepted time—described this ferti-
lised ovum as a “blastocyst, of about 100
cells”; and the knowledge would have
delighted those old bushmen who were
scoffed at for insisting that does could
halt their pregnancies until food was more
plentiful. They weren’t far short of the
mark. —“GravelsnatcherJ”
"Serves him right—poked his tongue out and his visor slipped down."
“Muskeen”: Don’t know about Tartoo
and Tinna being of abo. origin (B.
4/6/’5B), but the other name mentioned,
Murra (or, rather, Murrah), was the
abo. word for “hand” in the language
of the now-extinct Emu Mudjug tribe,
whose habitat was the vicinity of
Barnawartha (Vic.).
* * * *
“Jqz”: The Queensland-N.S.W. border,
less than a century old, is younger than
some of the towns and properties it
separates in our district. Yet the border
seems also to be a line of demarcation in
the pronunciation of aboriginal place-
names, especially as to the ultimate “i.”
In Queensland this takes the “ee”
sound, as in Goondiwindi, Dirranbandi,
Wondali, Giddi Giddi; in N.S.W. it is
more often pronunced as in “bite” —•
Boomi, Narrabri, Collarenebri, Mungindi.
This is not so strange when one considers
that the State border around those parts
is the Maclntyre River, which would
almost certainly have formed a natural
division between tribal hunting-grounds,
with resultant differences in dialect.
* * * *
“J.T.”: Pallamallawa, in north-west
N. S. Wales, is to have a pub. At least
the local cop will have no difficulty in
deciding the state of a citizen’s sobriety.
All he'll need to do is ask ’em to say
three times quickly the name of the town.
* * * *
“Jacana”: Vanity, my little stock-
horse, was a gem, once caught, but a
demon to yard or to get a bridle on.
When her foal became entangled in some
wire-netting, panicked and galloped madly
around, festooned with the netting, Vanity
took control of the situation. With a
great burst of speed she raced past the
terrified foal and led it into the catching-
pen, where human aid soon freed it. In
all the years we owned her that was
the only time she voluntarily entered that
yard!
* * * *
“Nettle”: The oddest diviner I met
was an elderly woman.'She trotted around
at a near-canter, a forked twig held
firmly between the thumb and first
finger of each hand. For gold and other
metals she used a bent metal tube filled
with water, plus a bit of the sought
metal in her hand. Local miners and
fossickers swore by her ability. To test
her, gold or other types of watches were
buried in odd spots. Invariably she
found the “treasure.” We often linked
hands with her and had the thrill of
feeling the twig turn in our fingers.
* * * *
“R.A.Mac.”: Here are more authentic
cases of animals with a first-class homing
instinct. In 1875 my uncle left our old
home on the Murrumbidgee near YasS
(N.S.W.) with a mob of cattle to start a
station about 50 miles from Jundah on the
Thompson River (C.Q.). Shortly after the
cattle arrived at their destination my uncle
died, and the horse he had ridden all the


I '(ikt, AT LBAST
TH£ OLO
UITCHtNG-PO&nS
ARjb STiU. H£G.€.


way out came back to where it was bred,
over 500 miles. It took the horse about 18
months to do the trip, but it must have
been hobbled when it got away, as its
fetlocks showed signs of long wear—
apparently the hobbles had worn-out or
rotted off. The horse lived to a great age
and 1 often rode it; no fence on the
place was any trouble to it until shortly
before it died. A man named Taylor had
a property on the river close to our old
home, and in the early days he took a
mob of fat bullocks to Melbourne for
sale. About six weeks after being sold
in Melbourne one of the bullocks arrived
home again. The following year the
same bullock was taken down again
with a fresh mob, and once again it
returned under its own steam. Taylor
commuted the sentence to life in lush
paddocks.
* * * *
“Horseshoe Bar”: When you haven't
a hat 10“ drop in front of a snake to dis-
tract his attention from yourself (B.
21/5/’5B) any sizeable object will do as
well. Coming upon a tiger while carry-
ing my saddle over to the saddle-room, I
dropped the horse-furniture in front of
Joe, who obligingly shaped-up to the
pigskin and thus gave me time to unwrap
my whip from the other arm. He was
still gazing fascinated at the saddle when
the first crack got him, but as he was in
the mud where the tank had overflowed
the whipfall lost most of its effectiveness.
He was successfully defying the subse-
quent flailing when reinforcements arrived
with a shovel and settled his hash.
% • * «
“B. A. Ker”: “Mullbong’s” informative
article on Norahville (N.S.W.) (B.
28/ 5/ ’5B) suggests that he might be able
to clear-up the confusion concerning
the alleged pioneers of nearby Wyong.
According to one authority, the first set-
tlers in that district were the Cape
brothers. The only means of transport-
ing merchandise to and from Sydney’s
markets then being by water, the Capes
built their own sturdy vessels, sailed
them down the lakes to The Entrance,
then down the coast to Sydney. When
silting shut the lakes off from the ocean
they pulled the craft overland from a
spot near what is now Long Jetty and
launched them again in the open sea at
Toowoon Bay. This course surprises me,
since the peninsula between lake and
ocean is decidedly hilly at that point; an
easier if slightly longer route would seem
to be across the flats to The Entrance.
However, an old-timer born in the dis-
trict doubts that anybody named Cape
ever lived there, let alone pioneered it.
Over to you, “Mullbong.”
* * * *
“Choices”: Like Kruger the Wonder
Dog (B. 7/5/’5B), the Alsatian I had in
Malaya loved to chase goats. Returning
from Port Dickson over a 40 m.p.h.
speed-limit road I breezed too fast into
a police-trap, Malay mata-matas waiting
with fountain-pens sharpened to jot-
down number, name and address. As I
stopped the car my Alsatian leapt smartly
through the open window after a goat up
ahead. 1 got out and chased the Alsatian.
Wife slid into driver’s seat and slowly
followed. Mata-matas were so delighted
by the procession of goat, Alsatian, fat
Tuan and Mark Five, they forgot to
write-down. So the Alsatian saved me
50 dollars and costs. They’re certainly
intelligent dogs.
* * * *
Bill Howard: Dame Mary Gilmore
has told us of old-time blade-shearers,
who were prolific readers over a wide
range of books, and reciters of verse ;
they seem to have been of a different
race from the modern machine-shearer.
On a weekend in a big western N.S.W.
shed 1 was desperate for something to
read, so prowled around the 15 deserted
rooms. Did not find one book or intelli-
gent periodical. Dozens of weekly by-
products of dailies scattered the floors;
there were many comics, of course, some
women’s papers, and the “Worker” —
sent to each A.W.U. member. The shed
“intellectual,” a prodigious reader, had
for a month’s reading a “Reader’s Digest”
on the box beside his bunk.
V * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The old belief that
even heavy matter in the ocean “found
its own level’’ at various depths and
remained suspended there (B. 4/6/’5B)
overlooked the fact that the sediment on
the ocean-floors is composed almost
entirely of minute matter which floated
down from the surface. Bottom-dwelling
fishes, inhabiting a region where light
doesn’t penetrate and consequently where
plant-life can’t exist, feed on what drifts
down to them from the upper levels, and
on each other. Everything heavier than
water will sink to the bottom, however
deep it is. But it doesn’t follow it will
sink straight down. Even at compara-
tively shallow depths there are currents
strong enough to carry a ship miles—
possibly hundreds of miles —from its
point of submergence. A wreck could
drift around near the bottom for months,
and even after resting for a period it
could shift again in a severe storm or a
heavy ground-swell. And what with the
drifting and buffeting and dragging along
the bottom, combined with the high pres-
sures, even a stout ship can soon dis-
integrate. That may be what happened
to the Kiama (B. 21/5/’5B).
RAIN
Two little calves together
Under the droop of the willow,
Shivering nose to nose
Under the cold wet sky.
They do not fear the weather
Under the droop of the willow
Yet each one surely knows
Something has gone awry.
Something that draws them together
Under the droop of the willow,
Something in small, sharp blows
Flung from a wet, cold sky.
r^s.w.
JUDITH GIBBINS.


DOGS ON GALLIPOLI!
Tn December, 1914, a fox-terrier named
Gunner joined B Company, 14th
Battalion, at Broadmeadows.
Like all dogs with soldiers, he remained
with the same Company, and in due
course embarked on the Ulysses, and
underwent a course of infantry training
at Heliopolis, Egypt.
He finished his training and accom-
panied the 14th to Lemnos by S.S. Seong
Chcon, and from there to Gallipoli,
where he landed and remained until an
Army order caught up
with him and he was
evacuated.
The “Illustrated Lon-
don News” published
an artist’s impression of
Gunner in the firing-
line, where he was
depicted barking defi-
ance at the Turks,
whilst bullets whistled
round him.
The 14th Battalion
enlisted another dog in
Broadmeadow's in D
Company. He went as
far as Heliopolis, but
then must have heard
something and took-off
for parts unknown.
W.G.L.
* * *
“5.W.5.”: An axiom
about horses is that
they gallop all shapes,
and the same may be
said of their swimming
ability, which depends
on neither conforma-
tion nor breeding. I
have known two out-
standing equine swim-
mers. One was Roany,
a light- draught at
Evan g i e, the out-
station of Warbreccan,
on the Thomson River
(W.Q.). Without rein
or guidance, he would
tow a half-tank, tied to his tail, across the
flooded river from the out-station to the
township of Stonehenge, and he’d return
loaded with passengers, mail and rations.
Then there was Hecuba, a thoroughbred
mare on Elderslie, Winton district. Not
15-hands high, she would reef and rear
when halted at the edge of a flooded chan-
nel. Then, pawing the water, she’d go in
and, head outstretched and tail streaming
behind, cut through the water with her
whole back-line inches above it. She
was one of the few horses I’ve ridden
whose saddle would still be dry when
you hit the opposite bank.
* * * *
“Sanasi”: A group of New Guinea
native schoolteachers being showm over a
Brisbane suburban terra-cotta tile com-
pany evinced great interest, as tiles are
practically unknown in their own country.
.Then one of them put the 64-dollar ques-
tion to the manager: “Tiles very good—
but why has this factory an iron roof?”
. ss M. : The blackbirds that sing
in dawn round Melbourne and
Adelaide were introduced, like the
sparrows, bulbuls, turtle-doves and star-
lmgs, by homesick settlers and, unlike
their fellow-migrants, the lovely songsters
have earned few curses for their sponsors.
Their very name , like that of our native
magpies, suggests music, though purely
by association of ideas. Some of our
other singers are more aptly named.
Golden-whistler suits that strikingly
handsome fellow with happiness
bubbling over into song, “White-winged
“Bit of a mong., perhaps , hut he's the best gun-dog I ever had."
trilier” is good, and the varied-triller’s
Sunday name, Lalage leucomela, is even
better. “Harmonious thrush” is better
than the more widely accepted but
tongue-twisting “grey shrike-thrush,” and
bell-birds owe their fame more to their
name than to their song, which few
have heard. But no amount of joyous
fluting can overcome the gruesome
associations of the name “butcher-bird.”
* ♦ *• *
Sir Frederick Mann, former Chief
Justice of Victoria, who died on May
29, was a grandson of the Venerable John
Ramsden Wollaston, Westralia’s first
Anglican archdeacon.
Wollaston came to the Swan River
Colony with his wife and family in 1841,
expecting a Government appointment as
a clergyman, but found he would get no
assistance until a church was available.
He took-up land near Port Leschenault
(it’s Bunbury now), cleared the timber,
built a house, sowed wheat, barley and
potatoes, struck grapevine cuttings, ran
sheep and tried to shepherd them and his
house-cows from wild dogs and natives,
and held church-services.
He and his sons hunted ’roos and he
was one of the first settlers to appreciate
the value of a good hunting-dog which
would kill and show; and occasionally,
to get clothing or a change of diet for
his family, he sold kangaroo-meat in the
town and traded vegetables with the crews
of American whalers.
In the meantime he built a church—it
took him 18 months —and thus qualified
for his stipend of £lOO a year, increased
to £2OO after he was appointed arch-
deacon in 1849. Before then he’d trans-
ferred to Albany, where he had his head-
quarters until he died in 1856, and from
where he sallied forth on regular archi-
diaconal tours of up to 1000 miles on
horseback.
A keen observer and an amateur
botanist, he made some shrewd comments
in his diaries on the native fauna and
flora and formed a remarkably true
appraisal of the aborigines. He sym-
pathised with them in the loss of their
hunting-grounds, deprecated well-meant
attempts to herd them into mission-
stations, and gave them more than usual
credit for intelligence—he instanced the
case of a native woman who, less than
20 years after the coming of whites, had
married a white man and was teaching
her husband to read.
One of Wollaston’s daughters, Sophy,
married a G. H. Mann in South Australia,
and her sons included the late Chief
Justice.
KELMS.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(.Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with tho
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
F. H. F.gerton,
Manager for Au itralia.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Contrasts in the Economy
rr'HE 465. a share paid last
>-*- week for B.H.P. scrip, at
which figure the yield was 3.6
p.c. from an 8| p.c. dividend,
is not to be taken as an
indicator of the current state
of the economy. The wool-
cheque for the first II months
of this year, by contrast, is
down £l3O million.
As with a few other leading
industrial stocks, there is a
magnetic investment attraction
at present to B.H.P. shares
regardless of dividend prospects
in the reasonably near future.
This attraction is partly
prompted by hopes of market-
increment in the minds of indi-
vidual investors themselves, but
also partly by the fact that
B.H.P. is probably to be found
in almost every staff-provident
fund, insurance-company port-
folio and fixed-trust parcel.
In uncertain times the faint-
hearted investor has swung
hopefully to B.H.P. without
making an actuarial assessment
of the dividend or increment
prospects. Yet even if the co.
were to make as much as a
one-for-one par issue, taking
paid capital up to the immense
figure of £lO6 million, main-
tenance of the present-div.-rale
would mean a yield of no more
than 5 p.c. at the present price
of 465. a share.
The long-term bond-rate in
Australia at present is in the
vicinity of 5 p.c., and h.-p. cos.
with the backing of the trading-
banks are offering 64 p.c. for
four years and 7 p.c. for 5-10
years. And in business generally
money is reckoned to be
particularly tight.
Low- Yields No Indicator
As indicated above, the low
yields being accepted from
BrH.P., 1.C.1. and the like are
not to be taken as indications
of the general state of the
economy.
There is a market boom in
B.H.P. and 1.C.1. shares ; but
there is no boom in the
economy as a whole, even if
most of it is reasonably healthy.
And while any expanding
country -like Australia which
requires so much development,
and in which there is such a
lag in housing and other
essentials, is likely to remain
busy in many directions, we
are unlikely to be able to avoid
the jolts that are sure to come
from the drop in the wool-
cheque, the slump in metals
and the failure of the wheat-
harvest—to mention the main
features of a much-altered over-
seas-trading position.
Gloom is no help in meeting
any difficulty, but it is wise to
face realities and to be pre-
pared for adverse trading con-
ditions. It is indeed unwise for
investors at present to buy
shares regardless of dividend-
yield, notwithstanding the
special market factors tending
to support a number of favored
investment stocks. It is always
risky to buy any investment
that one is not satisfied to live
with for itself alone, if need
be, regardless of the market.
A stock paying a rate of
dividend that is favorable in
relation to the purchase-price is
easier to live with than some-
thing that was bought purely
for expectations of a market-
rise that didn’t come off.
More and more investment
attention is likely to be given
to Australia as the flow of
migrants goes on and “nation-
alism” of an unstable character
sweeps through- former British
colonies. Our country seems
bound to go ahead. But a long
view needs to be taken of the
future, as well as full notice
of short-term (or what we
hope to be short-term) factors
like the present setback in
world markets for raw-
materials.
Technological Change
There are many technologi-
cal changes taking place
throughout the world, and
capital is likely to be short
in this part of the globe for
several years to come. With a
high standard of living in Aus-
tralia it is not so easy to estab-
“I see your number Won the lottery yesterday .”
lish, concurrently, a high
standard of saving (from which
all indigenous capital must
come) unless we have a still-
higher standard of produc-
tivity.
If capital does remain short,
it seems that a high price will
continue to be paid for the
loan of it. Lower interest-rates
seem hardly likely in the fore-
seeable future, and investment
plans and business programmes
should be made accordingly.
It is to be hoped that the
fall in grain, wool, metal and
dairy-produce prices is mostly
the result of a change in stock-
piling policy overseas, and
that at cheaper prices any
temporary surpluses will be
more rapidly absorbed and
current supply and demand
then come closer towards bal-
ance. Marginal producers may
be forced-out by lower prices,
too, and production may revert
to the more economic regions.
But Australians will be
foolish if they do not heed
the warning of the recent set-
back to raw-material prices
almost everywhere. This has
always been a world of change,
and the order that followed
World War II may now be
giving place to a new one.
Metal Prices
"Cirmer metal prices (particu-
larly for copper) overseas
last week brought an upward
trend in quotations for Aus-
tralian base-metal shares. Mt.
Isa, which has interests in
copper as well as lead and zinc,
went to 295. 9d., against 255.
earlier in the year, and New
Broken Hill recovered to
41s. 6d., compared with 365. a
few days before. Norths again
touched £5.
It is too early yet to say
whether this firmer trend in
metals represents an overall
trend in commodity prices, or
whether it is merely the result
of a technical market situation,
such as a squeeze on forward
operators now forced to cover.
Costs at Broken Hill
Oefore World War II the
principal Barrier mines used
to supply details of their pro-
duction costs, with a break-
down per ton of mining, devel-
opment and treatment charges
shown separately. With this
information to hand it was
possible to make a rough guess
at any time during the year,
with metal prices known and
production figures available at
regular intervals, as to how
each company at the Barrier
was faring.
During World War II these
figures disappeared in the inter-
ests of “national security,” and


TRAVEL
trouble
free
Birds have none of the worries of the
human traveller booking passages,
reserving accommodation, or buying
tickets.
You, too, can travel trouble free if
you let the Bank of New South Wales
make all your arrangements. Just enquire
at any branch of the Bank. There is no
charge.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
TRAVEL DEPARTMENT
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5816C
like so many nostalgic mem-
ories of pre-1939, have never
come back.
With metal prices now
unprofitable to both North
B.H. and B.H. South it would
be a useful service to share-
holders in those companies if
the next accounts resumed
publication of details of min-
ing, development and treatment
costs in relation to crudes
raised. Even if the investor has
then to make a conversion into
costs per ton of metal he can
at almost any stage determine
whether or not operations
are getting out of the red onto
the right side of the ledger.
In tough times like the
present shareholders are likely
to be more inquiring and criti-
cal than usual, and provision
of the fullest mining and finan-
cial information is desirable.
L. J. Hooker Developments
Shareholders in L. J.
Hooker, Ltd. (Sydney), on
June 6 agreed to a change of
the co.’s name to L. J.
Hooker Investment Corpora-
tion, Ltd., because the business
today is more of an investment
nature than just a real-estate
agency. The agency business
will be continued under the
old name, but as a fully-owned
subsidiary with a paid capital
of £lOO,OOO.
As an investment company
the Hooker organisation
seems still to be feeling its
way, but with considerable
confidence. It appeared in the
news earlier this year as an
unsuccessful bidder for the
takeover of the Newcastle
Building and Investment Co.,
which ultimately went to
Sorby’s. But the Hooker
organisation is energetic, and
it has now just about scooped
the controversial Mainguard
(Aust.) outfit into its pool, and
has other interesting fish in
its net.
The Mainguard takeover (on
the basis of one Hooker ss.
ord. for each four Mainguard
ss. ords.) is at present about
90 p.c. complete, and it will
bring into Hooker control a
wholly-owned sub-subsidiary
in the shape of Solar Salt Pty.,
Ltd. (operating in S.A., and
which has impressed chairman
L. J. Hooker with its possi-
bilities) ; also Festival Records
Pty. (a wholly-owned record-
pressing concern with good
overseas tie-ups); and the rice-
growing venture at Humpty
Doo, in the Northern Terri-
tory, a more speculative enter-
prise in which Allen Chase
(U.S.A.) is financially
interested. Mainguard also
owns a two-thirds interest in
Tracy Vernon, Ltd., and N. le
Roy Tracy Pty., for all the
shares in which Wormaid
8r05.7 is offering 150,000 of its
own shares.
Another new Hooker interest
is the Realty Development
and Mortgage Discount Co., in
which it has joined forces with
the Development Finance
Corporation, formed by big
international financial groups
with some Australian capital
as well.
The Realty offshoot will be
mainly engaged in financing
real-estate development, real-
estate mortgages and real-
estate contracts. Chairman
Hooker has said that “over a
period of time. we will have
substantial sums invested in it
—so will other big institutions.
They propose to back their
equity-capital by making sub-
stantial sums available on what
we call low rates of interest.”
The co. will be engaged also
in discounting and under-
writing.
L. J. Hooker himself is going
to the U.S.A. and to Japan to
discuss both salt and rice.
Japan is interested in taking
substantial quantities of Aus-
tralian salt. Profitable export
will depend largely on whether
the S.A. Government will
guarantee a loan for the erec-
tion of conveyer-belts and
jetties to help load overseas
ships. If U.S. interests are
prepared to go further with
the N.T. rice venture, the
Hooker board will discuss the
matter on L. J. Hooker’s
return, and, if satisfied, back it.
More in the immediate
present is the Hooker-Rex Co.,
Ltd., owned partly by L. J.
Hooker Investment Corp. and
partly by Rex Investments,
Ltd. This is a development
co., subdividing land in various
parts of eastern Australia,
including the Queensland Gold
Coast, the N.S.W. south coast,
Moorefield Racecourse.
Normanhurst and Middle
Harbor (Sydney). Turnover
generally continues to be
brisk.
A 20 p.c. dividend to all
shareholders in L. J. Hooker
Investment Corp. (including
Mainguard shareholders who
had exchanged) for the
year ending on June 30 is
forecast by Mr. Hooker. Half
of this has already been
paid as an interim. He added
that “the high earnings of the
co. will not be affected while
the present economic climate
continues,” and he anticipated
that present earning-power and
divs. would be maintained.
Paid capital of L. J. Hooker
Investment Corp., before the
Mainguard takeover began,
was £225,051 in
fully-paid ords., 364,536 con-
tribs. paid to 3s. 9d., and about
£20,000 of pref. money, with
400,000 options to convert into
that number of ss. ord. shares
in November, 1960.
Mainguard has an issue of
4,000,000 ss. shares, and full
acquisition of these, on the
basis of one for four, will add
another million ss. ords. to the
Hooker share-register, thus
more than doubling paid
capital.
In all the circumstances
Mr. Hooker’s confidence in
maintaining the 20 p.c. divi-
dend is / impressive. In the
1956-57 term earnings were
equal to about 30 p.c. on
average ord. capital then
employed, and with capital
doubled this term one might
expect the co. to be sweating
to maintain a 20 p.c. distribu-
lion. But on a one-for-four
exchange Mainguard assets, on
its 1956-57 earnings, should be
able to service most of the
extra div.-commitments.


GENERAL MOTORS
Acceptance Corporation, Australia
(Incorporated in U.S.A. Limited Liability )
LOAN STOCK
SUBSCRIPTIONS
STILL BEING
ACCEPTED
for a limited period.
2*
PER *NNUH
Although the recent £i ,500,000 issue of Isjan Stock has been oversub-
scribed, further subscriptions mil be accepted for a limited period.
Any multiple of £lOO may be invested in any or all of the currencies
—4 years, 6 years, 10 years. GMAC, Australia has the right to repay
earlier. Conditions of repayment including premiums aie set out
in the Prospectus.
Copies of the Prospectus and Application Forms available from:
BRANCHES OF COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION, AUSTRALIA
Underwriters
THE ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN CORP. PTY. LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney
Brokers
lAN POTTER & CO.
Melbourne. Sydney, Canberra
(This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an invitation to the
public to subscribe for the Loan Stock mentioned herein.)
It**s
Natural Gas Locations
[From L. OwenJ
TVTatural gas may be defined
as any gas found in the
earth’s crust and which has
been formed without any kind
of artificial processing.
The most commonly occur-
ing type of such gas is that
which is encountered in con-
junction with crude petroleum.
The term “natural gas” (used
in its widest sense) includes,
however, gas derived from
coal or entrapped in coal-
measures (fire-damp), gas pro-
duced in marshes from decay-
ing vegetable-matter (ignis
fatuus or “will-o'-the-wisp”)
and even the several types of
gas resulting from volcanic
action (e.g., solfatara).
In the U.S.A., which has
always led the world as a pro-
ducer and consumer of
petroleum products, the present
rate of production of petroleum
gas is about 30,000-million
cubic-feet a day from about
560,000 wells, after the “wet”
constituents have been
removed. In terms of energy,
this is equivalent to about 35
per cent, of the total obtained
from all U.S.A. petroleum
products. In 1940 the corre-
sponding figures were 7288
million cu. ft. from 384,700
wells; the energy equivalent
was then 23.3 per cent. The
proportion of this gas which,
conceivably, could have other
than a petroleum origin is
negligible.
It would be quite illogical,
of course, to refer to these
figures in any attempt to predict
Australian prospects in the
natural-gas field, as the geo-
logical environment both
stratigraphical and historical —
differs so widely from that of
U.S.A.
The first measureable strike
of gas on the Australian main-
land was in an artesian water-
well on Hospital Hill, Roma,
Q., which was being deepened
in an attempt to increase its
yield in 1900. Gas was
encountered at 3683 ft., and
a flow at the rate of 39,000
cu. ft. a day was recorded. In
1904 a 24-hour test on the
well, which had been sealed,
gave 72,264 cu. ft. and a
gasometer was erected. The
town was reticulated for gas
and, in 1906, the streets were
illuminated for ten days. The
supply then failed and did not
recover.
In 1908 an offset to the well
was sunk. It encountered gas
at 3702 ft. but caught fire and
burned for six weeks. Subse-
quent drilling has invariably
ended in failure. The latest
strike was in June, 1954, where
another well on Hospital Hill
gave an initial gas-flow at an
(estimated) rate of ly million
cu. ft. a day but also failed to
produce a persistent supply of
any value.
In the Arcadia well, also in
Queensland, gas was struck in
Permian strata at 2620 ft., at
the measured rate of over
4 million cu. ft. a day. Un-
fortunately the gas contained
80 per cent, of carbon-dioxide.
In 1957 an attempt to tap this
horizon down-dip resulted in
failure.
In N.S.W., in 1935, an out-
cropping structure was drilled
near Mulgoa and struck gas,
flowing at an estimated rate of
50,000 cu. ft. a day. This gas
was inflammable but consisted
of about 74 per cent, of carbon-
dioxide and 26 per cent, of
methane. The hole, after
deepening, was abandoned in
1937. Small showings of gas
were also obtained in a well
drilled in the hope of striking
petroleum at Kilnura in 1938.
In the old Balmain Colliery,
on the shores of Sydney
Harbor, a bore was sunk, also
in 1935, at the bottom of the
shaft, to a total depth of
4177 ft. below the surface and a
flow of low-pressure gas was
obtained. Attempts were made
to utilise this gas commercially
during the petrol shortage of
World War 11, but the supply
was too small and operations
ceased in 1949.
Of the four wells recently
completed at Camden, three
have produced flows of gas
varying from showings to an
estimated 90,000 cu. ft. a day.
One of these wells is claimed
to have produced 25,000 cu. ft.
in 12 hours, but no particulars
are available as to the length
of time over which the 90
Mcf/day rate persisted.
So far, therefore, from the
actual drilling-record, the
chances of striking commercial
gas in Australia appear to be
remote. This opinion is
strengthened from a study of
the unique geological history
of the Australian mainland.
Electrical Goods
of the fastest-growing
industries in the nation
is the electrical. It now
employs more than 50,000
people who produce more
than £150,000-worth of goods
annually, and the Institute of
Public Affairs, Victoria, has
compiled a table showing its
annual efforts in comparison
with other countries, as fol-
lows :
Refrigerators: 19 in Australia
per 1000 of population; 33 in
U.S.A., and II in Russia.
Washing-machines, 16, 21, 2;
vacuum-cleaners, 10, 19, 1£;
radio-sets, 40, 90, 4*; TV-sets, 22,
37, 4 respectively.
According to 1.P.A., the
Australian industry produced
in 1957 182,200 domestic
refrigerators, 157,200 clothes-
washers, 92,900 vacuum-
cleaners, 380,900 radios,
208.300 TV-sets, 329,900 irons,
79,600 fans, 178,200 toasters,
152.300 electric-jugs, 150,500
food - mixers, and 194,600
radiators.




SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Under Milk Wood”
Here, at the Independent
Theatre, North Sydney, is one
of the most remarkable of
Doris Fitton’s many remark-
able productions for that
theatre —a warm and wholly
delightful gathering together
of the many complexities of
Dylan Thomas’s “Under Milk
Wood,” and all of it done with
such skill that the hand of the
producer never intrudes: only
after it is all over does one
suddenly remember that there
must have been a producer.
A huddle of cottages, white-
washed or pink, leaning one
against the other and nestling
in the hollow of a sheltered
cove, with sand and cliffs and
foam in the distance and a
lush green foreground, is the
setting for the first musings of
the Onlooker —a remarkably
long part sensitively narrated
by Frank Taylor.
The Welsh village sleeps in
the “Bible black” of the spring
night and, as the villagers turn
and murmur and mutter in their
sleep, the audience is given a
glimpse into their dreams: Old
blind Captain Cat (Tom Cat)
dreaming of the “great green
sea full of whales,” of the men
drowned at sea and of his life
ashore “sardined” with women,
and most of all of Rosy
Probert, whose name is still
tatooed on his belly, though
her mouth and eyes have long
since been filled with dust and
“her bones no longer remember
him.”
And Mr. Waldo, whose
drunken dreams take him back
to “little boy Waldo,” chasing
girls then as now, in-spite of
Waldo’s mother then and
Waldo’s wife n0w.... these
scenes, showm as illuminations
behind the transparency of the
initial scene, are strikingly
vivid and as clear and as clever
as Dylan Thomas’s poetry.
Cocks crow and lamps and
kitchen fires are lighted, and
the sleeping village slowly
comes to sleepy life. The Rev.
Eli Jenkins steps into his
garden and praises the Lord
in moving verse, acknowledg-
ing higher hills and “boskier
woods” elsewhere, but that he
loves this village, and the milk
wood, and the hills behind
where the great men of the old
legends lived.
Mrs. Ogmore-Pritchard, in
her germ-free house, lives with
the henpecked ghosts of hus-
bands Ogmore and Pritchard.
Gossamer Beynon drifts past
the “Sailors’ Arms” in be-
sprigged dress and picture-hat,
with never a glance to right
or left, telling herself she must
be outwardly calm in order to
be a lady, though she is very
much aware of Sinbad Sailors
yearning for her over the beer-
pump, and, of course, secretly
delighted with the thoughts
that she cannot put out of her
mind.
There are Mrs. Willy Nilly,
with her kettle forever steam-
ing on the hob, helping her
postman husband sort the
village mail —with the aid of
the steaming kettle; Ocky
Milkman delivering watered
milk (several hours earlier he
had been pouring cans of fresh
milk into the river in his
before - waking nightmare);
P.C. Attila Rees inspecting the
streets in the early hours, wan-
dering down to the sea’s edge
“to make sure it was stiil
there”; Mr. Organ Morgan,
with nothing in his mind, sleep-
ing or waking, but music,
especially Bach (even addres-
sing a sleeping figure at the
village pump as “Johann Sebas-
tian”).
And Lily Smalls and Mae
Rose Cottage ; and Mr. and
Mrs. Cherry Owen ; Butcher
Beynon and Mrs. Beynon, feed-
ing her cat “the grisley bits”
under the fringe of the table-
cloth as she eats her lamb’s-
fry ; Mr. Dai Bread, the baker,
with his two wifes —one the
sloppy, corsetless, shawled and
’kerchiefed village housewife,
and the gaudy, dirty, tinsel
gipsy who is the other Mrs.
Dai Bread —a trio with a mon-
strous bed with three pillows ;
lovely, loving Polly Garter, the
garden of her husbandless
house blossoming only with
eternal baby’s washing, sweep-
ing the church hall for the
Ladies’ Guild by day and seek-
ing comfort where she can
find it at night, from the men
from the fields or the men
from the sea, but always
mourning that she’ll “never
find such loving again” since
“wee Willie Wee is dead, dead,
dead.”
And Mr. Pugh, endlessly
poisoning Mrs. Pugh in his
thoughts ; great Bessie Bighead,
the unloved foundling wrapped
in paper and lumbering like a
shapeless brown cow her-
self as she moos to the cows
and calls them all by name ;
No Good Boyo, lying alone on
his back in his tiny boat staring
at the sunny sky or lying not
alone in the fields or the wood ;
and Dicky and Meg, and
Gwennie and Billie and Johnnie
DAVID OISTRAKH
—in fact, so many, so rich and
so varied that it seems the stage
is crowded with the whole 500
inhabitants that the narrator
mentions in the opening lines.
The actors are uniformly in
key and it is hard to single-out
any, although Robert Mc-
Darra’s Captain Cat is un-
forgettable for his interpreta-
tion of the rich poetry of the
old sea captain—and with him,
of course, the rosy picture of
Jean Blarney’s Rosy Proberl.
Similarly notable are Jane
Williams’s unlovable Mrs.
Organ Morgan, spearing the
fish on her plate whole and
taking it with one swallow in
the midst of her tears ; the un-
deniably wicked charm of
Valda Bagnall’s Polly Garter
and David Hurst’s No Good
Boyo.
And then night slowly
blankets thb scene again as the
curtain falls on the everyday
dramas of the Welsh villagers.
The fact that it is all such rich
entertainment is due to the
genius of Dylan Thomas’s sing-
ing poetry; to the way his
descriptions of people burst to
life in two or three words;
and to the brilliance of Doris
Fitton’s production, which
presents it all in a manner
so real that Paul Kathner’s
clever decor is the village, the
actors are the villagers, and the
whole audience, with Frank
Taylor, are the onlookers.
P. N. S.
❖ ❖ ♦>
David Oistrakh
Russian violinist David
Oistrakh opened his Sydney
season with a repeat of his first
Melbourne programme and
showed Sydney, too, that he
has no mannerisms and no need
whatever to resort to tricks of
exhibitionism ; his bowing has
a fascinating, effortless fluency
and his playing a peerless
purity of tone.
He began with the Sonata in
D Major by the 18th-century
composer Jean Marie Leclair,
a work of style, polish and
distinguished melodies, the
whole laced with some subtle
technical snags. It opened,
unusually, with a
slow section which
the violinist turned
into a stream of
expressive music;
moving thence
through allegro, sara-
bande and tambourin
and blending virility
w th gracefulness.
The playing of the
Cesar Franck Sonata
which made it
an all-French first
half —was imbued with a mystic
quality which completely cap-
tured the spirit of the work.
There is always the temptation
to insinuate sensuousnes into
these lush melodies of Franck’s,
but of all composers he
wrought the least passionate
music, a fact which Oistrakh
recognised by giving them a
full measure of spiritual
serenity. The work was beauti-
fully balanced between the
instruments, Vladimir Yam-
polski’s work at the piano
being outstanding, particularly
in the recapitulation-work in
the opening and closing move-
ments, and in the gentle
dialogue between keyboard and
strings.
The third sonata was the
Prokofieff No. 2, one of tne
best works for the fiddle
written this century. A fusing
of the neo-classical and con-
temporary idioms, it contains
practically none of the biting
ironies, mordant wit and
grotesqueries that mark so
much of this composer’s music.
It has drive and fine lyrical
qualities, and the violinist


Divorce Notices
TO SYDNEY ERNEST RADFORD for-
merlv of Wau in New Guinea but now
of parts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that
vmr wife DOROTHY IRENE RAD-
FORD has commenced proceedings for
Divorce against you on the ground of
deseruon during tnree years and up-
wards UNLESS you enter an appear-
ance in the office of the Prothonotary
Supreme Court at Melbourne on or
before the 21st day of July 1958 and
file an answer in the said office on or
before the 31st day of July 1958 the
suit may proceed in vour absence and
you may be ordered to pay costs.—
RIDGEWAY, PEARCE & KINGSTON,
379 Collins Street, Melbourne, Soli-
citors for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO OWEN JAMES MADDOCK (known
as MADDOCKS).—'TAKE NOTICE that
JOYCE CLARE MADDOCK (known as
MADDOCKS) has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 294 of 1958 on the grounds
of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Bunding Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 20th day of August
1958 and obtain a .copy of the Petition
without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS,.SoIictor, 107-109 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, New South Wales.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce,
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO WILLIAM FLYNN late of Newcastle.
TAKE NOTICE that SHIRLEY MAR-
GARET FLYNN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3912 of 1907 on the grounds
of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance- in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 20th day of
August 1958 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE AUBREY JOB BINS late
of Bankstown. —TAKE NOTICE that
ALICE JUNE JOBBINS has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1348 of 1958 on
the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 20th
day of August 1958 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-
109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
IN - THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CYRIL DUDLEY MEAD late of 107
Morehcad Street Redfern. —T A K E
NOTICE that ANN MEAD has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 832 of 1958 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Macquarie
Street Sydney by 25th August 1958 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from H. WILSHIRE WEBB &
SON, Solicitors, of 4 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
NOTHING EQUALS
Warmray's Amazing Efficiency!
warm ray
TRIPLE-PURPOSE, SLOW-COMBUSTION,
AIR-CONDITIONING HOME HEATER
vSS;' —-*#
SwSSSS
SSSSsSE
** <f -< ™
m m
m
m
X~ J !>, *J
Model No. 3
Super De luxe
if Large Capacity
Over 8,000
cu. ft.
if Special large
firebox for long
burning with-
out attention.
if Extra large
hotplate for
cooking.
Installs in rooms
ivith or without
fireplaces.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray"
ACTUALLY COSTS NOTHING!
Model No. 2A Standard
Ar Lights in seconds,
warms entire room in
minutes.
At No smoke or dust to
soil furnishings.
Ar Full view of blazing
fire through open or
closed front.
4r Modern artistic cream
porcelain enamel on
solid cast iron.
Ar Heats over 5,000 cu.
ft.
ic No dirty fireplaces to
clean.
Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
—— —ojxdfVbrmray-
our
.uaVitu ha s nlo s\ successful
1 , ,u fl wor'o 5 JvJSff UPJJFR
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL—REGARDLESS OF TRICEJ
«*■
WARM RAY
HEATING TUBES
The secret of Warmray’s Amazing Efficiency Is the
Patented Heating Tubes (illustrated above), which
are built into the firebox. The air in the room
passes through these tubes continuously, thus
maintaining an even, all-over warmth.
it BURNS ALL SOLID FUELS
WOOD IS CLEANEST.
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and
Hardware Merchants everywhere.
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors
Challis House. Martin Place. Sydney
Telegrams: “Warmray.” BL 2217
If unobtainable locally, phone, write or call
for illustrated Brochure and name of
nearest agents.
W2OI
obviously found these very
much to his liking.
The two short pieces made
the second half all-Russian:
Tschaikowsky’s “Meditation”
and “Waltz Scherzo,” both the
epitome and song played
with flawless technique and
tone.
For his second Sydney reci-
tal Oistrakh brought up his
biggest technical and interpre-
tative guns for an assault on
the “three Bs.”
There was Beethoven’s First
Sonata, in which the Mozar-
tian and Haydnesque geniali-
ties were occasionally thrust
rudely aside by the tougher-
muscled master of Bonn ; the
Brahms D Minor Sonata, with
its themes of sublimity and its
pages of weighty drama beauti-
fully stated by both instru-
ments, the violin giving voice
to exquisite song in the second-
movement cavatina; and
Bach’s G Major Sonata, its
bustling liveliness and geniality
affording the greatest contrast
to the Brahms.
There were also Hindemith’s
E Flat Major Sonata and
Ravel’s “Tzigane,” in which
almost every art and trick of
violinism is exploited and
through which the soloist swept
with a seemingly airy disregard
but with a total effect of fiery
virtuosity.
❖ ♦> *X*
“Look Back in Anger”
This English play by John
Osborne purports to have some
significance, yet
it bears a curious resemblance
to the contemporary output of
plays and films dealing with
juvenile delinquency and the
violence of young toughs and
hoodlums whose actions are
too commonly presented as the
results of environment or
parental neglect.
Osborne’s central character,
Jimmy Porter, is, in effect, the
equivalent of the modern milk-
bar larrikin, a kind of intel-
lectual bodgie who, from a
poor family but with a uni-
versity education, runs a sweet-
stall and lives in a dingy
'apartment and expends his
intellect on not-very-clever
comments on the social scheme
of things and on savage verbal
attempts to humiliate and
destroy his ftiiddle-class wife.
His sarcastic savagery gives
the play its own peculiar force,
even if one sometimes feels
that a swift kick in the seat
of the pants and a steady job
would solve most of his prob-
lems, a feeling that is intensi-
fied by the fact that a good
deal of his philosophy is
uncommonly boring and
decorated with such thinly
disguised banalities as “We
have nothing but the past to
look forward to.”
The psychological overtones
—that Jimmy’s sadistic slang-
wanging of his wife is an
attempt to break down her
middle-class reserve, and that
his general bitterness towards
life springs from his own
youthful tribulations —are not
very convincing: dramatists
commonly overlook the fact


start the dau right!
a
1
e&ULI „
QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
that sublimity and strength,
rather than violence and weak-
ness, are the more common
result of genuine human
suffering.
With all that said, however,
it must be repeated that the
play is still a forceful one —
possibly it has the peculiar and
ugly fascination of sadism —-
and it is at least interesting to
see something with a spark
of life in it coming from
Britain’s post-war playwrights.
Alan Burke’s production for
Sydney’s Elizabethan Theatre
is a very creditable one, and
Ray Barrett’s performance as
Jimmy is excellent —a restless,
savage, witty and unhappy
young man —and the irritation
that one felt was with the
character, not the actor.
Darlene Johnson, as the
browbeaten wife; James
Bailey, as her father; Alan
Hopgood, as Jimmy’s imper-
turbably good-natured part-
ner ; and June Collis, as the
wife’s sharp-tongued friend
who moves in with Jimmy when
his wife leaves —these were all
good, although a little more
subtlety on Miss Collis’s part
would have made her moving-
in rather less of the uncon-
vincing shock that it was.
Amadeus Quartet
A first-rate string-quartet
has many fascinations for
those prepared to listen.
Quite apart from the great
music that is written for it,
there is the peculiar kind of
communication, almost tele-
pathic, that exists among the
players. The Amadeus Quartet,
from London, in one Brisbane
concert for Musica Viva,
showed that the four players
had musical personalities as
finely attuned to one another
as were the fine instruments on
which they played. Not for
a long time have players given
so keen a sense of enjoying
their own playing, and the
music they made on the wettest
of wet nights was unvaryingly
good.
Mozart’s last ,quartet, a
work of storm and stress
almost like Beethoven, made
an impressive beginning. The
abrupt movement-endings and
moments of violence were
mingled with the timeless
serenity of so much of
Mozart’s music. The players
did not hesitate to charge the
music with all the considerable
power at their coffimand.
Verdi’s only quartet is a
novelty, an overflow of the
genius that flowed into opera
after opera. It is easy to play
a game of “spot the opera” in
listening to it, as though each
movement had hidden clues
taken from the operas—like a
musical quiz. This is unfair
to Verdi, who was _ quite
capable of writing a quartet
that is interesting in its own
right. Naturally enough, his
musical fingerprints are all
over it, in moments of great
beauty that are worth admira-
tion even if the finale plods
too heavily.
The last quartet of the
programme was the last of the
thiee by Brahms, a rich tune-
ful work whose seriousness was
never far from being cheerful.
This gave the Amadeus players
a chance to display a broad,
sonorous tone that seemed as
though the four instruments
had become welded into one.
Their excellence brought
forth two Dvorak encores to a
concert that was one of the
liveliest of the season,
enthusiasm being pretty evenly
balanced on both sides of the
footlights.
D.J.M.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
Gordon Watson
Young Sydney pianist
Gordon Watson ran away with
the first of the third group of
celebrity-concerts at Mel-
bourne Town Hall. Not that
the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra didn’t do admirably
under the Woess baton in the
Prelude and Liebestod from
“Tristan and Isolde,” and in
the second symphony of
Brahms, but the musical
problems stated in those pieces
have been dealt with and sifted
by other orchestras times with-
out number. They belong to
the great tradition.
Bela Bartdk’s Second Piano
Concerto, however, is in a
different category altogether.
It is a mixture of the traditional
and the modern and the transi-
tion from the one to the other
must be as difficult for the
executant as for a painter to
paint in the manner of Titian
in one corner of a canvas and
in the manner of Picasso in
another. Playing with great
confidence, Mr. Watson seemed
to have no difficulty whatever in
merging the one style with the
other. The heavy dissonances
and the discords at the begin-
ning and end of the opus didn’t
seem to clash with the soft
cadences of the glorious slow
movement, which came off the
pianist’s fingers like bits of
velvet.
M. G. S.
Artbursts
James Gleeson
James Gleeson’s exhibition
at Sydney Macquarie Galleries
is an astonishing outburst of
color and variety in which this
artist’s familiar surrealism,
always ingenious but inclined
to be static, has run riot in
semi-abstraction.
The small pictures, such as
“Aphrodite Landing at Low
Tide,” with the excessively
solid goddess marching towards
eagle - headed white rocks,
remain what they always were,
curious and admirably painted ;
but the big splashes of color
such as “Across the Threshold”
and “Landscape into Myth,”
with their symbolic forms
emerging out of chaos, are
something Sydney has not seen
before.
Some of them, when the
first dazzlement subsides, are
merely turgid and it does not
seem likely that so careful a
painter as Gleeson will be con-
tent to stop at this point. Rut
the new method allows (in “The
Third Day of Creation,” which
looks like a lacy green bubble)
a new lyrical charm; a
dramatic effect that does not
depend on mere anecdote in
“Landscape Into Myth” ; and,
if the forms and colors here
are still essentially visceral, a
less repellent approach to the
subconscious in “Across the
Threshold” than was possible
under the former literalness.
The total effect is un-
expectedly forceful and refresh-
ing ; and “The Waiter,” which
is a blending of the old and
new styles, closer to Dali’s
imagination, is an exceptionally
pleasing small horror. It
depicts Death (presumably)
looking like a yellow-winged
praying mantis.
Films
“The Young Chopin”
This Polish production (in
Polish with English sub-titles)
is concerned with that time of
the composer’s life before he
took-up permanent residence
in Paris, and when he was
actively associated with the
revolutionary elements during
the Russian occupation of
Warsaw. The film gains from
a recognisable portrait of the
delicate, rather foppish young
musician in his formative years,
and from a neatly presented
account of his fruitless admira-
tion for the beautiful Glad-
kowska.
The black-and-white photo-
graphy makes rather too much
use of night-shadows and half-
lights, but there is compensa-
tion in the able acting and a
good selection of the Pole’s
piano pieces.
At Sydney Vogue.
<* ❖ *
“Naked Earth”
Scottish actor Richard Todd
doesn’t seem to be able to
decide between haggis and kilts
and potheen and Irish humor
in this run-of-the-mill outdoor
piece. He plays an Irish farmer
who goes out to Africa to grow
tobacco, in face of the
antagonism there of his dead
brother’s mistress, and the
apathy of the native labor on
which he depends.
There is only a modicum of
excitement, but Juliette Greco
as the sharp-tongued lady with
no illusions left emerges as an
interesting new screen
character.
At Sydney Esquire.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Ltd.
6<> W HILE I * Grow” —universal-
* * provider Anthony Hordern’s oak-
insignia can claim a currency which is
by no means confined to the headquarters-
State, N. S. Wales. And the business is
certainly spreading - out now. But
as far as equity-shareholders are con-
cerned, “growth” has not yet been con-
spicuous. The £1,250,000 of ord. capital,
supported by £750,000 of p.c. prefs.,
remains as it was in 1926, when the his-
torical old emporium, even then a cen-
tenarian, decided to put the public on its
share-register.
Average dividend payout in the 32 years
since the public was allowed in has been
at the rate of 5.4 p.c. p.a.’ with the div.-
scale rising to 10 p.c. in the three uneven
terms preceding the last, when 8 p.c. was
declared.
A quarter-century of relative quiet
stemmed in large part from the decline
of the Liverpool-Goulburn-Oxford Street
sector as Sydney’s shopping fulcrum;
however, in the past year especially, the
big retailer has been making vigorous
efforts to overcome its environmental
handicaps with an “aggressive” and not
unrewarding drive for customer-support.
The management is keen and its outlook
imaginative and up-to-date. . The main
store on Brickfield Hill has been exten-
sively refurbished, and given a strong bias
toward self-selection selling in accordance
with latest overseas trends.
Encouraged by the success of its Can-
berra experiment —a branch-store was
opened in the capital in 1956, and its
progress has been striking—and cognisant
of the centrifugal tendency of present-day
retailing, the board is proceeding with
two additional satellite stores, respectively
in the booming Wollongong and . West
Ryde areas. Others will undoubtedly
follow.
As a result of the revised policy, turn-
over picked-up well last year, despite the
summer-in-winter weather and sagging
farm : incomes—Anthony Hordern has an
extensive mail-order clientele. But profit
was still £115,038 below the 1955 peak.
Provision of £107,000 (up £21,250) for
income-tax and £48,904 (down £7548)
, for depreciation left net earnings at
£185,532, representing an increase of
£82,846, or 80 p.c. over those shown in
the previous term and an earning-rate on
ord. capital of 10.3 p.c., compared with
3.7 p.c,, 14.2, 19.5, 12.4 and 6.2 p.c
back to 1953 :
, Dividends , j
Pref. To Re- Re-
f'eb., Profit. 6 p.& Ordinary. serves. serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
’50..125,374 45,000 6 = 75,000 5,374 272,272
’51..131,547 45,000 0 = 75,000 11.547 283,819
’62..127,286 45,000 6 = ,75,000 7,286 291,10-5
’63..125,030 45,000 6 = 75,000 5,030 296,135
7i P-c.
’64..211,549 56,250 8 = 100,000 55,299 351,434
To alterations reserve, £50,000 .. 301,434
Asset-revaluation reserve, £2,675,519.. 2,976,953
From depreciation ( £500,000) and
alteration ( £100,000) reserves, and S
sundry provisions ( £375,000) . . 3,951,953
’55..300,570 56,250 10 = 125,000 119,320 4,071,273
’66..233,680 56,250 10 = 125,000 52.430 4,123,703
’57..102.686 56,250 10 = 125,000 4,045,141
Provn. long-service leave, £131,000 . . 3,914,141
Provn. retirement benefits, £73,000 .. 3,841,141
Provn. stock fluctuation, £50,000 . . 3,791,141
Provn. unearned interest under h.-p.
agreements, £46,000 .. ..3,745,141
Less deprec. on w/up value of plant
trans. from reval.' res., £282,447.. 3,462.694
*58..185,532 56,250 8 = 100,000 29,282 3,491,976
Although at latest balance-date, February
26, 1958, net tangible cover for each 205..
of equity capital was 76s. —of which the
greater part came from a thoroughgoing
revaluation which added £2,675,519 to
the book-value of fixed assets in 1955 —
the adjustments shown for last year
in the above profit - table show the
difficulty in valuing reserves or assets in
any going concern these days. Dividend
payments of £156,250 authorised for the
year were adequately covered, leaving a
surplus of £29,282 to be carried for-
ward as unappropriated profits, but
reserves were trimmed by adjustments to
the extent of £582,447. The sharemarket
will take more particular note of the
next year’s results.
Outside money has become a more
prominent item in the balance-sheet over
the last decade, but the mortgage-loan
has kept working-finances supple, and at
the close of accounts current assets,
£4,591,319, exceeded current liabilities by
£2,687,691:
Paid capital— 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref £756.000 £750,000 £750.000
Ord. •.. .. 1,250,000 1,250,000 1,250,000
Reserves.. .. 4,123,705 4,045,141 3,491,976
Mortgages .V 1,772,925 2,102.637 2,003,459
Overdraft .. 711,215 566,585 946,834
Creditors .. 425,805 428,632 679.573
Tax provision .. 274 878 165,988 149,096
Final divs. .. 90,625 90,625 128,125
£9,399,153 £9,399,608 £9,399,063
Freeholds, leaseholds,.
plant .. ..4,773.482 4,846,350 4,807,744
Stocks .. . • 2.632,244 2,364,037 2,105,186
Debtors .. .. 1,887,271 2,094,334 2,355,118
Cash, investments,
etc 106,156 94,887 131,015
£9,399,153 £9,399,608 £9,399,063
Stocks fell by £258,851, partly as a
result of tighter inventory controls, insti-
tuted following some forced mark-downs
in recent years, and partly of the setting-
up of a £50,000 stock-fluctuation reserve.
Book - debts have shown substantial
increases in the past few years, but this
would be due in part to the growing
emphasis on t.-p. and h.-p. sales, with a
lengthier collection period.
On the liabilities side, additional finance
totalling £380,249 was sought from the
bank, and sundry creditors were in for
a further £250,941.
Notwithstanding the improved results,
the sharemarket takes note of the present
difficulties of all retailers, and is waiting
on a consolidation of last year’s improve-
ment in A.H.’s affairs in particular.
Investors price the 20s. ords. at 235.. 9d.
for a yield of 6.9 p.c., assuming an
unchanged 8 p.c. div.; the 20s. prefs. at
21s. 9d., to give the same return. Cover
for the prefs. is £7 6s. 6d.
Wunderlich, Ltd.
Tf the lag in homebuilding has hindered
Wunderlich’s progress over the last two
or three years—and an. apparent delay in
the employment of fresh capital, suggests
that expansion may have been slower
than anticipated—it certainly hasn't pre-
vented a steady improvement in sales.
Over the three years to February 28
last, a period during which several manu-
facturers and suppliers of basic building-
materials found their markets somewhat
cramped and crowded, Wunderlich has
managed to boost turnover by something
like 20 p.c., an increase of approximately
p.c. on the previous year's figures
being reported last term. The main factor
behind this success, of course, has been
the boom in commercial building, but the
extent to which the co. has been able to
take advantage of this situation is due,
in the main, to well-planned and exten-
sive expansion of manufacturing-facilities
and the introduction of new products
suited to the current trend in construction
techniques.
Founded in 1887, the Wunderlich
organisation acquired corporate status in
1908, and has since developed into Aus-
tralia’s largest manufacturer of terra-cotta
roofing-tiles, and a sizeable producer of
architectural and industrial metalwork
(its original line of business) and asbestos-
cement products.
Of the 18 Wunderlich factories, spread
throughout all States except W.A., six
are devoted to the production of metal-
work (including metal ceilings, fascias
and grilles, aluminium window-frames
and curtain-walling, stainless-steel sinks,
etc.), six to terra-cotta roofing-tiles, three
to asbestos-cement products, two to
ceramic facings and one to stoneware
pipes.
In 1938 the co. merged its Westralian
interests with those of H. L. Brisbane,
Ltd., in which it now holds a substantial
share-interest.
Output and earnings bounded along
with the flood of orders which followed
the end of the 1939-45 war, and, while
undistributed profits have played a large
part in financing post-war expansion, the
co. sought additional capital from share-
holders in 1949 (one for four at a 50 p.c.
premium), arranged a £500,000 mortgage-
loan in 1951 and turned to shareholders
again in 1956, this time with an offer of
410,724 £1 ords. (one-for-two) at a pre-
mium of 10s. per share. Bonus-scrip wqs
handed out on a one-for-two basis in
1955, following the revaluation of free-
holds, and, with the 93,475 ords. issued
(5400 of them in the current term) as
consideration under building contracts,
paid capital now totals £1,485,648, of
which £160,000 carries a cumulative 7 p.c.
The ord. div.-rate averaged 10.3 p.c.
over the 10 years preceding the bonus-
issue, a well-covered 124 p.c. div. going
out in each of the last three terms. Share-
holders haven’t missed a div. since the
co. was formed.
The limited amount of finance


available to homebuilders “somewhat
retarded” sales of certain lines last term,
but the maintenance of a high level of
commercial building kept turnover mov-
ing in the right direction. The bigger
output helped to cushion the effects of
cost-increases, keen competition ensuring
that selling-prices remained relatively
stable, so that the board was able
to write net profit £12,513 stronger at
£252,711 after providing an extra £50,495
for depreciation (£246,080) and an undis-
closed amount for taxation:
f Dividends —-——
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb.. Profit. 7 p.c. ( —Dividends—•, serves. serves.*
£ ’£ £ £ £
’53..162,306 11,200 10 p.c.= 54,764 96,342 468,594
To staff partners, £25,500 .. .. 443,094
From inner reserves and profit sale
assets, £81,684 .. .. .*. 524,778
’54.,212,227 11,200 15 p.c.= 82,144 118,883 643,661
Asset revaluation reserve, £273,816 .. 917,477
’55..258,919 11,200 15 p.c.= 82,145 165,574 1,083,051
Reserves capitalised, £273,816 . . 809,235
’56. .201,569 11,200 124p.c.=102,803 87,566 596.801
Share premiums, £136,908 .. .. 1,033,709
Profit sale shares, £109,375 .. .. 1,143,084
’57..240,198 11,200 12*p.c.=134,826 94,172 1,237,256
Share-premiums, £68,454 . . . . 1,305,710
’58..252,711 11,200 124p.c.=165,369 76,142 1.381,852
* After deducting goodwill (£73,888 at 29/2/’SB).
Only £6208 below the record figure
returned in the 1955 term, the earnings
covered pref. and ord. divs. with £76,142
to spare, but the earning-rate on ord.
capital was a little lower at 18.3 p.c., as
against 19.6 p.c. in the previous term
and 23.2 p.c. in 1956.
Almost £400,000 was put into fixed
assets pver the year (the generous pro-
vision for depreciation leaving the net
addition to book-values at £151,148), com-
pletion of a metalwork factory at Villa-
wood (Sydney) and work on a new office-
block, showroom and store in Adelaide
accounting for part of this outlay.
There is no indication of any premium
being charged on the 30,650 ords. issued
to building-contractors last term, and
work carried-out under the relevant con-
tracts has been valued, presumably, on
the basis of a par issue:
Paid capital—- / 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref £160,000 £160,000 £160,000
Ord 821,449 1,152,690 1,320,248
Calls in advance.. 103.657 86,300 —■
Reserves .. .. 970,689 1,311,144 1,455,740
Mortgage .. .. 548,800 526,400 526,400
Overdraft . . .. 197,650 52,804 53,064
Creditors, etc. .. 1,202,579 1.110,632 1,147,793
Final divs. .. 57,062 77,909 88,453
£4,061,886 £4,477,879 £4,751,698
Freeholds .. 811.699 926,145 1,028,692
Plant, etc. .. 960,063 1,012,465 1,061,066
Shares, etc. .. 166,548 142,406 142.406
Stocks .. .. 1,475,593 1,456,228 1,599,454
Debtors .. .. 490,609 581.516 658,586
Cash, bonds .. 82,486 285,231 187,606
Intangibles . . 73,888 73,888 73,888
£4,001,886,£4,477,879 £4,751,098
Despite the scale of the capital-expendi-
ture, there was only a small increase in
liabilities and provisions (up £47,965) and,v
while holdings of cash and bonds dropped
by £97,625, they still exceeded, by £68,544,
the £119,062 of fresh capital and pre-
miums gathered in on the first day of
the term. In the preceding year, £200,000
of the £273,816 put up by shareholders
was placed on deposit, “at call or short
term,’’ £IOO,OOO remaining against this
heading at February 28 last.
The upward trend in turnover was
maintained over the first two months of
the current term and, given reasonably
stable economic conditions, the board is
confident of attaining a sales volume “at
least comparable” with that of last year.
Backed by progressive management and
a solid financial structure, the f.-pf. £1
ords. sold last week at 525., to return
£4 16s. 2d. p.c. from a 12} p.c. distribu-
tion. Based on conservative book-values,
the net tangible cover at balance-date was
40s. lid.
Western Stores, Ltd.
A 27 p.c. jump last term in the earnings
of N.S.W. country retailer and mer-
chant Western Stores, Ltd., appears all
the more impressive when viewed against
a background of drought conditions, pom
wheat-crops, falling wool prices and
increasing competition from Sydney-based
rivals.
The record profit , follows eight or
nine years of rapid expansion, involving
the extension and modernisation of
branch premises and the absorption ,of
several well-established businesses, includ-
ing those of James Douglas and Co.
(builders’-hardware and timber mer-
chants, Orange), P. G. Smith and Co.
Pty., Regans of Tamworth (both Tam-
worth retailers) and Squire Pepper Pty.
(retailer, Cowra).
In common with other enterprising
retailers, Western Stores has also acknow-
ledged the theory that the way to a cus-
tomer’s pocket is through his stomach,
and, over the last 18 months, the intro-
duction of self-service food d partments
throughout the chain has helped to
strengthen turnover and increase the
volume of customer-traffic generally.'
Western Stores was incorporated in
1928 following the amalgamation of an
earlier co. of the same nam; with L.
Edgley and Co., Ltd. Originally known
as Western Stores and Edgleys, Ltd. —
the shorter title was adopted in 1956 —
the co. trades through stores in the N.S.W.
centres of Bathurst, Orangn, Dubbo,
Wellington, Narromine, G i 1 g a n d r a,
Cowra, Grenfell, Molong and Tamworth.
Although scrip was issued aj part-corn
sideration in the purchase of Host of the
subsidiaries, shareholders have been asked
to augment working-capital on two occa-
sions in the last years, une-for-five
par issues in November, 1954, and May,
1956, bringing in a of £3 52,640. Of
the £1,390,390 paid capital, £1,215,390 is
in f.-p. £1 ords. and the balance in 6 p.c.
prefs.
Steady at 124 p.c. for the last three
years, the ord. div.-rate has averaged 13|
p.c. over the past decade. However, the
actual return has been even better, size-
able wads of bonus-scrip (financed by
revaluation of freeholds) going out in
1951 (two-for-five) and again in 1954
(one-fpr-two).
The co. has avoided the current ten-
dency to attract business by. the offer of
extended credit and has, in fact, tightened
its trading terms over the last few years,
without any obvious damage to turnover!
Cash-sales accounted for 44 p.c. of last
term’s record, but undisclosed, turnover,
as against 38 p.c. in the 1956-57 term.
Covering the pref. div. and 21.5 p.c.
on ord. capital, compared with 16.7 p.c.
in the previous term, net profit for the
year to February 28 last was reckoned
at £272,375 (up £58,163) after allowing
for the interests of outside shareholders
and providing £164,131 (up £8852) for
taxation and £37,500 (up £3559) for
depreciation. The profit-figure includes
£6310 which, according to the board,
“might jbe considered of a capital
nature”: —-
PAREN’T AND SUBSIDIARY.!
f— Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 0 p.c. f- Ord. ■, senes, serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
’52..158,134 10,500 15 = 75,180 72,474 408,493
’53..160,349 10,500 15 - 75,180 74,669 483.167
Tax overprovided, 30,000 .. .. 513,167
Parent and Subsidiaries.!
’54..200,322 10,500 15 = 84,600 105,222 618,389
Assets revalued, £282,000 .. .. 900,389
Reserves capitalised, £282,000 .. 618.389
’55.-219,281 10,500 135 = 103,306 105,475 723,864
Share premiums. £64,312 .. .. 788,176
’56..237,264 10,500 124 = 124,692 102,072 890,248
’57..214,212 10,500 124 = 151.924 51,788 942,036
Tax overprovided, £BOOO .. .. 950,036
Stock-provision written-back, £75,000 1,025,036
’58..272,375 10,500 124 = 151,924 109,951 1,134,987
* Subject to intangibles, £62,634 at 28/2/’SB.
t After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
The overall picture was further bright-
ened by the transfer to reserves of £75,000
from an (unstated) provision against
stock-depreciation, an overprovision for
taxation of £BOOO and the £109,951 of
earnings retained in the business pushing
total reserves well past the £l-million
mark.
Finances are particularly comfortable,
a £IO,BBI drop in book-debts and £105,873
increase in stocks being explained, in
part, by the higher proportion of cash-
sales and the smaller provision against
stock-depreciation. A substantial cut
(£99,083) in the overdraft left current
liabilities down by £79,205, working-
capital advancing by £239,692 to
£1,235,847:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref £175,000 £175,000 £175,000
Ord. . . . . 1.012,850 1,215,390 1,215,390
Reserves . . . . 890,248 942,036 1,134,987
Outside interests. . -25,000 25,000 25,000
Overdraft .. .. 311,028 108.736 9,653
Creditors .. .. 167,653 144,349 152,141
Tax provision . . 229,972 290,583 302,669
Final divs. .. 68,553 81,212 81,212
£2,880,304 £2,982,306 £3,096,052
Freeholds, leaseholds 1,000,541 989,924 931,729
Plant, fittings, etc. 248,873 292,583 293,562
Shares . . . . 16,830 10,130 26,605
Mortgage .. ..
Stock .. .. 992,323 1,001.433 1,107,306
Debtors . . .. 525,418 581,074 570,193
Cash ' .. .. 32,900 38,528 40,473
Goodwill, etc. . . 63,359 62,634 62,634
£2,880,304 £2,982,306 £3,096,052
The parent co. transferred its registered
office from Dubbo to a newly acquired
property in Sydney last term, the purchase
of this property and the sale of a free-
hold in York Street (Sydney) reducing
the book-value of freeholds, etc., by
£58,195. Payment for the York Street
property will be spread over a number
of years, the £63,550 outstanding at
balance-date being secured by mortgage.
The drop in farm incomes promises
to make the current term a difficult one,
but the co.’s f.-p. £1 ords. don’t appear
to be overpriced at 415., at which figure
there would be a return of £6 Is. lid.
p.c. from a p.c. div. Consolidated
accounts show a net tangible asset back-
ing of 375. Bd.


A WIDE RANGE
OF LIFE ASSURANCE
6c PERSONAL ACCIDENT
6c SICKNESS POLICIES
to meet the needs of all sections
of Australia’s expanding population
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. In Qld., 1895)
HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS: E. W. Robinson, Esq.
(Chairman), Col. R. S. Goward, C.8.E.,
P. H. Phillips, Esq., T. Keith Smith, Esq.,
C. W. Rothe, Esq., S. J. Gandon, Esq.
Gen. Manager: W. J. Cooksey, B.Sc., £.F.A.
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in uae
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
Kelly & Lewis, Ltd. (Vic.)
A nnouncing a loss for six
months to December 31
last and the passing of both
pref. and ord. interim-divs., the
recent half-yearly report from
Kelly and Lewis, Ltd., does,
nevertheless, offer shareholders
some encouragement by reveal-
ing that the co. commenced the
last quarter of the current term
with orders on hand at the
highest level for four years.
Controlling a business estab-
lished in Victoria nearly 60
years ago, Kelly and Lewis
manufactures electric motors,
pumps, farm - machinery,
foundry - castings, air-com-
pressors, etc., and undertakes
the design and construction of
pumping - plants, electrical
equipment and structural steel-
work. The co. also acts as
agent for several overseas
manufacturers. Paid capital,
£758,500, includes £210,000 in
6 p.c. prefs.
Abnormal weather, import-
a n d credit - restrictions and
slackness in the heavy-engineer-
ing and electrical trades
generally caused a sudden and
unexpected decline in K. and
L.’s turnover early in 1956 and
during that year the co. turned-
in a small loss, its first in 17
years as a public co. Earnings
in the preceding term repre-
sented a healthy 19.4 p,c. on
ord. capital.
Demand for most lines
showed few signs of reviving
last term (to June 30, ’57), and
losses run-up by K. and L. and
seven of its 11 subsidiaries —
relating, largely, to work com-
pleted in the previous term-
left the group as a whole in
the red to the extent of £24,582.
Judging by the size of the tax-
provision (down £457 at £709)
profits won by the more suc-
cessful offshoots were on a
modest scale. When calculating
the loss, £BOOO was written-off
stocks of imported steel and
£43,311 (up £9690) set aside
for depreciation:
Kelly and Lewis and Subsidiaries.
f Dividends N Re-
Jne.,Profit. Prefs. Ords. Amt, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
*54..106,573 8 & 5 10 59,580 332,770
To staff fund. £5OOO .. 327,770
Less res. adjustments, £8156 319,614
Share premiums, £lO,OOO . . 329,614
’55..117,643 8 & 6 12$ 80,436 366,821
To staff fund, £5OOO ...361,821
Plus res. adjustments, £1209 363,030
Reserve capitalised. £11,500 351,530
Chairman's retiring allow-
ance. £6OOO .. • • 345,530
Loss.
’56.. 2.144 3*& 5 33,725 300.au
Profit sale assets, £B9O 310.551
Tax underprovided, £2Ol .. 310,350
To prov. long-service leave,
£16,000 204,350
Less res. adjustments, £4139 290,211
*57.. 24,582 265,629
* Six months only.
The net drop in reserves was
increased to £44,032 by the
creation of a £16,000 provision
for long-service leave and the
several adjustments interlined
in the above table.
Following rumors, early this
year, of an impending takeover
offer (subsequently denied by
the board), bids for the co.’s
f.-p. £1 ords. rose from around
11s. to 165., the wide margin
between the n.-t. asset-backing
of the scrip (295. 9d. at June
30 last) lending an air of
feasibility to such reports. The
scrip is currently fetching
around 11s. 6d.
Neither pref. nor ord, share-
holders have sighted a div. for
two years, and, with the omis-
sion of the half-yearly payment
in the current term, pref.
arrears now amount to £25,200.
The financial structure has
been trimmed, in an orderly
fashion, to accord with the
altered trading conditions:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital- 1956. 1957.
Pref £210,000 £210,000
Ord 548,500 548,500
Reserves .. .. 309,661 265,629
Mortgage .. .. 178,724 170,057
Overdrafts.. .. 305,328 260,477
Creditors . . .. 483,829 192,923
Prov. l.s. leave .. 16,000
Tax provision .. 32,114 811
£2,068,156 £1,664,402
Freeholds ~ .. 347,659 323,604
Plant .. .. 571,553 535,709
Investments .. 3,000 3,000
Stocks, etc. .. 751,066 486,064
Debtors .. 389,534 310,785
Cash, etc 5,344 5,210
£2,068,156 £1,664,402
Funds released during the year
by a sharp cut in stocks (down
£265,002) and a £78,749 drop in
book-debts provided all but
£15,154 of the £358,905 clipped
off total liabilities, but the ratio
of current assets to current
liabilities rose to 2.1 to 1, as
against 1.6 to 1 at the beginning
of the year.
An investigation of the co.'s
managerial, financial and pro-
duction policies was carried-
out in the current term by a
firm of chartered accountants.
The recommendations, as yet
undisclosed, arising from this
inquiry are now being imple-
mented.
New Broken Hill
Youngest of the “big four”
A Barrier mines, New Broken
Hill Consolidated outshone its
neighbors as a zinc-producer
again last term, and, at the same
time, lifted output of lead-
concentrates by over 34 p.c. and
net earnings by 20 p.c.
Current quotes for lead and
zinc are, of course, well below
the depressed average prices
obtained during 1957, and, as
announced earlier this year,
production is to be cut by at
least 10 p.c. in 1958, with a
consequent increase in mining-
costs. As New B.H. has noth-
ing worth-while in the way of
outside investments to supple-
ment mining - profits, the
immediate outlook is far from
encouraging.
Nevertheless in marking-
down scrip in base-metal con-
cerns to accord, somewhat
belatedly, perhaps, with the
level of metal prices, the share-
market has treated New B.H.
with considerable caution,
making little allowance for the
tax-concessions available to the
co. under the U.K. legislation
relating to “overseas trade
corporations.”
Bids for the ss. (stg.) ords.
had dropped to 35s. s by
the beginning of this month,
before rising to 40s. over
the last couple of weeks.
At last term’s rate of distribu-
tion, 100 p.c. or ss. (stg.) per
share, the return at 40s. would
be 8.9 p.c., after allowing for
U.K. tax at Bs. 6d. in the £,
the effective yield dropping to
around 5 p.c. if calculated on
the basis of a 60 p.c. div.-rate.
The co. extracted a record
722,722 tons (up 116,397 tons)
of ore during the year to
December 31 last. While the
zinc content, per ton, was
lower, average lead-values were
appreciably higher:
Ore Grade
Produced, Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Tons. p.c. Oz. p.c.
1955 .. 581,447 8.9 2.0 Is.B
1956 .. 606,325 8.7 2.2 12.9
1957 .. 722,722 9.8 2.6 12.0
An extra 115,681 tons
(721,241 tons) of ore was put
through the mill for 154,325
tons of zinc concentrates (up
16,335 tons), assaying 51.7 p.c.
zinc, and 87,975 tons of lead
{Continued on page 40)




GUIDE TO CORRECT WINTER CAR LUBRICATION
(This Lubrication Chart gives correct engine oil recommendations for Winter motoring)
ENGINE ENGINE ENGINE ' ENGINE "1 cMnkir r "’
%
NAME OF CAR
A.C.— '
1957-58 Ace-Bristo!, Aceca-Bristol
1955-58 Ace, Ace C 2, Aceca
1953-58 Pecite
1947-55
ALFA ROMEO-
-1900, ARSI and Gulietta
2500 c.c. Models .. ..
ALLARD-
-1957-58 Palm Beach Mark II
Ford Engine
Cadillac Engine .. ..
Jaguar 3|- Litre Engine ..
1953-56 K 3
1953-55 Palm Beach 2IC and 2IZ
1951-54 P 2, K.M.P
1949-52 J, K.L.M.P
ALVIS—
-1956-58 TC 108/G
1951-56 3 Litre
1946-50 Fourteen
ARMSTRONG-
SIDDELEY—
All Models 1945-1958
ASTON MARTIN—
All Models 1949-1958
AUSTIN-
-1958 Lancer
1957-58 A 55 (Cambridge) ..
1957-58 A 95 (Westminster), AIOS
1957-58 Princess Mark IV ..
1957 A 35
1954-56 A3O (Seven)
1954-56 A5O (Cambridge) ..
1954-56 A9O (Westminster)
1954-56 A 125, A 135
1953 A3O
1952-54 A4O (Somerset) ..
1948-52 A4O (Devon and Dorset)
1948-54 A7O, A9O (Atlantic)
1948-53 A 125, A 135
1945-49 Sixteen ■ ..
1945-47 Twelve
1945-47 Ten
1945-47 Eight
Austin Champ ~ ..
AUSTIN-HEALEY—
All Models 1953-1958
BENTLEY-
-1955-58 TypeS
J 945-55 Mark VI, R..
BRISTOL—
All Models 1949-1958
BUICK—
All Models 1945-1958 ..
CADILLAC—
All Models 1945-1958 ..
CHEVROLET-
Models fitted with Power-Glido
Transmission
1951-58
1950
All other Models
1957-58
1945-56
Castrol XL
Castrol XXL
Castrol XL
Castrol XXL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrolite
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrolite
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XXL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castro; XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Cast, ol XL
Castro' XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
C.strolite
Castrolite
Deusol CR2O
Castrolite
Deusol CR2O
Castrolite
NAME OF CAR
CHRYSLER-
-1957-58 Royal
1957-58 V 8 ..
6-Cylinder ..
1946-56
CITROEN—
-1957-58 DSI9, ID 19.,
1954-57 2CV..
1946-56 Big Fifteen \
Light Fifteen J
1948-55
DAIMLER—
All Models 1946-1958
DELAGE—
D 6 3 Litre .. ~
DELAHAYE-
135-I4BL
Coloniale 171
DE SOTO—
-1946-58
DQRETTI—
-1954-55 ..
D.K.W.—
D.K.W.
DODGE-
-1946-58 .. ..
Vans
FIAT—
All Models 1946-1958
FORD-
-1957-58 V 8 Customline .
1957-58 V 8 Mainline
1956-58 Zephyr
Consul
1955-56 V 8 Customline
1955-56 V 8 Mainline
1955-58 5, 7 cwt. Vans
1954-58 Anglia and Prefect
1954-57 Popular
1954 and Previous 5, 7 cwt.
1951-55 Zephyr
Consul .. .
1949-54 V 8
1949-s’B h.p., lOh.p.
1948-51 V 8 Pilot
1945-48 8 h.p., 10 h.p.
1945-48 V 8
FRAZER—
-1947-51 .. .. „ .
GOGGOMOBIL—
GOGGOMOBIL
GOLIATH—
-1957-58 1100 .. .. , ,
1953-58 GP7OO, GP7OOE, GP9OOE .
1951 GP7OO
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrol XL
Castrolite
Casrolite
Castrolite
Castrol XL
Castro XL
Castrol XXL
Castrol XXL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrolite
Grand Prix
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Deusol CR2O
Deusol CR2O
Castrolte
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrolte
Castrolite
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castro'ite
Castrol XL
Castrolite
Grand Prix
Castrolite
Castrol XL
Grand Prix
NAME OF CAR
HILLMAN—
-1956-58 New Minx ..
1955-58 Husky
1955-56 Minx Mark VIII,
Californian ..
1948-54 Minx
1945-47 Minx
HOLDEN-
-1956-58 FE Model
1951-56
1949-50
HUDSON—
All Models 1945-1958
HUMBER-
-195- Hawk
1953-57 Super Snipe Mark IV
1953-55 Pullman and Imperial
1951-52 Super Snipe, Pullman and
Imperial
1949-54 Hawk
1948-50 Snipe, Super Snipe and
Pullman
1946-48 Hawk
1946-47 Snipe, Super Snipe and
Pullman
1956- 10 h.p
1946-55 10 h.p
JAGUAR-
-1958
1957-58
1956-58
1955-57
1951-
1952-
1951
1949-51
1949-50
1945-48
XKISO
Mark VIII ..
2.4, 3.4 Litre
XKI4O
Mark VII ..
XKI2O
Mark V, 3£ Litre
XKI2O
XKIOO
2i, 3i Litre
2t, 3i Litre
I i Litre
JEEP-
-1945-58 Four Wheel Drive
1956-57 Dispatcher..
JOWETT-
-1953-54 Javelin
1950-54 Jupiter (IA)
1947-52 Javelin ..
KAISER—
-1947-55 .. ..
LAGONDA—
-1954-58 3 Litre
1949-53 2i Litre ..
LANCHESTER-
All Models 1946-1954
LAN Cl A-
Castrolite
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrolite
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Cascrciite
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
NAME OF CAR
LAND ROVER-
-1958 Diesel
1945-58 Petrol
LEA FRANCIS—
All Models 1946-1956
LINCOLN—
-1949-58
1945-48
LLOYD HARTNETT-
-1958
Castrolite
Castrol XXL
Castrol XXL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
MERCEDES-BENZ-
300C
300, 300 b, 300SL '
220, 220 a, 220 S
190, I9OSL
180 IBOD, ITOS, I7OSD ..
'1952 : .
I7OVA, I7OS, I7ODA, I7ODS ..
Prior 1952 :
170 V, I7OVA , I7OS, I7OD, I7ODA
MERCURY—
*"<I949-58
1945-48
M.G.—
1956-58 MG A Series
1954-58 Magnette ..
1954-55 TF Series ..
1952-53 YB, TD Series
1947-slYSer.es ..
1945-50 TC Series ..
MORGAN-
-1956-58 4/4 Series II
1951-56 Plus Four ..
1945-50 4/4 ..
MORRIS-
-1958 Marshall .. ..
Uf 958 Major .. ~
1957-58 Minor 1000
—Ai5957-58 Oxford 1500, Series 111
' 4 W 57 Isis Series II
, (955-56 Isis
1954-56 Oxford Series II ..
1953-56 Minor Series II ..
1949-53 Six .. ..
Oxford .. ..
Minor .. ..
1945-48 Ten (Series M) ..
/£*Hj?4s-48 Eight (Series E) ..
nash-
All Models 1946-58.
OLDSMOBILE—
'946-58
Deusol CR3O
Castrol XL
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrol XL
Castrolite
Deusol CR2O
Deusol CR2O
Deusol CR2O
Deusol CR2O
Deusol CR3O
Deusol-CR3O
Deusol CR3O
Castrolite
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrolite
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrolite
Castrolite
NAME OF CAR
1200, 1201
1101 1102
Castro ite
Castrolite
NAME OF CAR
STANDARD—
-1956-58 Vanguard Series 111,
Sportsman
1954-58 Eight Ten and “Cadet"
1954-55 Diesel
1948-55 Vanguard ..
1945-48 Twelve, Fourteen ..
Eight .. ..
STUDEBAKER-
-1957-58 V 8
1957-58 6
1956 Champion, Flight Hawk
1956 Other Models
1955 Comm, and President
1947-55 Champion ..
1947-54 Comm, and Lander.
1945-46 Champion .. ..
SUNBEAM-
(lncluding Sunbeam Talbot)
1957-58 Sunbeam Rapier ..
1954-57 Mark 111, Alpine Special
1953-54 90 Mark 2A
1950-52 90 Mark 2 ..
1949-50 90
1948-50 80
1945-48 2 Litre
1945-48 10 h.p
TRIUMPH-
-1953-58 TR2, TR3 Sports .
1950-55 Renown, Roadster
1950-53 Mayflower ..
1949-50 Saloon, Roadste- ~
1945-48
VAUXHALL-
-1957-58 Victor
1949-58 Velox - ..
1949-57 Wyvern ..
1945-48 14 h.p
10 h.p ; , 12 h.p.
VOLKSWAGEN-
-1948-58
Transporter ~
WILLYS—
-1958 475 4x4 Commercial
1958 6-226 Commercial
1955-57 6-226 2 x 4 Station Wgn
1954-55 6-226 ‘L’ Head Engine
1948-55 6-Cyl„ Aero 6, 685B‘F’
Head Engine
1946-55 4-Cyl
WOLSELEY-
-1958 Fifteen Hundred
1955- Six-Ninety
1956- Fifteen-Fifty
1953-56 Four-Forty-Four
1949-55 Six-Eighty ..
1949-53 Four-Fifty ..
1946-48 8 h.p.
1945-48 10 h.p.
1945-48 12, 14, 18 h.p.
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Deusol CR3O
Cas'rol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
CastrohXL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrolite
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
Castrol XL
your car not be listed above, write to P.O. Box 6, Pyrmont, N.S.W., (stating make and model of car) for
'complete lubrication details. Remember, for top Winter motoring performance it is advisable to ask your garage-
man to drain your engine now and refill with the correct grade of oil as shown above.
C2O


natasha the Dancer
By MABEL WALN SMITH
Ir was Saturday evening,
Shanghai, 1949, and
Natasha was getting ready
for her strip-tease act. She
and her maidservant “Ningpo,”
named after the fishing-village
whence she came, lived in the
flat above mine at Lotus
Apartments.
Natasha was a luscious 19-
year-old China-born While
Russian dancer at the Jade
Lantern nightclubthe job
suited her tempestuous spirit
as well as her seductive body.
Preparing to go to work was
no burden, just pure joy.
She and Ningpo had evolved
a pattern suitable to them both.
Sitting in front of her long
mirror tightening her brassiere
until her breasts tilted at a pro-
vocative angle, Natasha always
anticipated the adventurous
hours ahead. Ningpo stood
spread-legged at work behind
her.
“Damn! Zitt! Stop brush-
ing so hard. You’ll pull all my
hair out!”
“No brush too hard! ” sassed
Ningpo, drawing smooth, even
strokes down the mass of chest-
nut waves. “This red color too
wild. Must give plenty smash
with brush. Make shiny-
bright.” }
Natasha reached around,
viciously pinched Ningpo’s leg,
and received a spirited rap on
the head with the brush. In
the tussle which followed, the
side-fastening of Ningpo’s
short jacket was ripped open,
a knotted button burst off her
neat neckband, and Natasha’s
brassiere-strap broke. Never-
theless Ningpo, red-faced and
panting, stubbornly kept hold
of the brush, using it as a
weapon as well as an instru-
ment of grooming.
Their flat was often in an
uproar like this, for both
vigorous Chinese servant and
young White Russian mistress
lived a little as beasts in the
jungle live. They gave battle
on the slightest pretext, thus
diversifying Natasha’s periods
of torpor with bursts of frantic
anger or wild enjoyment.
“There. Have finish!”
shouted Ningpo, flushed with
victory. She picked up a well-
cut lace dress, thrust it forward.
“Here. Wear this yellow. I
have iron it all nice.”
Natasha seized the proffered
garment, threw it back onto the
bed. “Niet! Not that old
thing. Give me the white satin.
Tonight I’ll be elegant, be
grand. A new dress, a new turn
in life. Perhaps it’s my Fate!”
This philosophy pleased both
servant and mistress. They
giggled as they eased the white
satin over Natasha’s head onto
her sleek body. Gravely they
adjusted its rich folds to
enhance her curving hips .and
eager breasts. Carefully they
creamed, tinted and powdered
her lovely cheeks, rounded
arms, and low bare back ; out-
lined her full lips with soft
crimson.
Natasha thrust proudly
arched feet into silver evening-
slippers ; skilfully beaded her
long black lashes ; touched her
delicate ears with perfume.
She leaned close to the mirror,
examining her amber-colored
eyes under their exquisite
brows. Then she tilted back
her well-shaped head and held
her eyes wide open while
Ningpo dropped belladonna on-
to her pupils. They grew large,
became deep purple and
shining. Finally she sprang to
her feet, setting the two dia-
mante butterflies quivering in
her glowing hair.
Maidservant turned her now
softly breathing mistress
around to see that all was
perfect. Then she stood back
for a full view of their handi-
work.
“So very beautiful lady,” she
sighed aesthetically.
“Queek! Queek!” burst'out
Natasha. “I no can be late.”
Snatching the too-thin grey
day-coat Ningpo brought, she
slammed out the front door
towards work.
"COR some time her working-
day had begun in the even-
ings, when she pushed her
way quickly through the side-
door of the Jade Lantern,
which gave life to a dull alley
near a downtown city square.
She dropped her shabby coat
in a heap on the floor of the
nightclub’s changing - room,
passed the pantry whence slim
Chinese waiters in spotless
white serving-gowns hurried
to-and-fro with sparkling
drinks or savory food, and
sauntered into the softly lighted
ballroom.
The music lulled, to make
Natasha’s entrance effective.
There was something remi-
niscent of the sinuous move-
ments of Mae West about her
as this lovely dance-hostess
posed for a moment on the
threshold before she crossed
the smooth floor and sat down
at a round table near the wall
reserved for professionals.
She twined thin arms around
the short neck of the partner
who had come to claim her
in exchange for a pink ticket;
the music started, and they
glided away to the rumba.
One evening, “Late again,”
hissed a sallow-faced dancing
rival in Natasha’s ear. “The
manager’s been looking for
you. Wants to see you in the
office.”
Natasha’s lips curved in a
sweet smile for the sake of
her public (as though she'd
been complimented instead of
reprimanded), and she raised
luscious eyes to an olive-
skinned, expensively dressed
man at a nearby table. He
sprang to her side.
“Shall we dance?”
“Why not?” she answered,
moulding her body to his in
the low dreamy strains of the
music.
The Hungarian manager
stood awaiting their arrival
back at the table. He spoke
low to Natasha in French:
“Later you must sing. That


Everything you wont to know about Australia now available in the
AUSTRALIAN
ENCYCLOPAEDIA
The only GENUINE Australian Encyclopaedia
10 VOLUMES
4,500,000 Words
6.200 Subjects
Comprising:
2.200 Biographies
1,600 Natural History Entries
1,400 Geographical Entries
1,000 Miscellaneous Entries
Over 2,000 Illustrations
62 Colour Plates (including 7 Maps)
360 Contributors
'iSS#
'
■i-i
S i
v.~
K
\ ig ■
aftEss
•' : r ■=:-•.•
Editor-in-chief:
ALEC H. CHISHOLM
THE RANGE
Here is a library in ten volumes. It
embodies the contents of hundreds of
books, and the knowledge of the best-
informed minds in the Commonwealth.
Eight years in preparation, the Australian
Encyclopaedia is a work that belongs in
the home, office, school and library.
With a set of the Australian Encyclo-
paedia in your home, you can add more
interest to your family life. Your chil-
dren will develop a more enquiring mind.
and become better Australians with this
store-house of knowledge.
CONTRIBUTORS
More than 360 contributors, each an
authority in a particular sphere, wrote
for the Encyclopaedia. Many of the
longer articles were the work of two or
more authors, and certain authors were
responsible for groups of articles. Here
is a short cross-section of contributors.
Dr. C. E. W.
Bean
Editor of Official History
of Australia in the War of
1914-18.
Sir Giles
Chipp'idall
Director-General of Posts
and Telegraphs.
Sir lan Clunies-
Ross
Chairman, Commonwealth
Scientific and Industrial
Research Organisation.
A. P. Elkin
Emeritus Professor of
Anthropology, University
of Sydney.
Dr. J. A.
Ferguson
Author of “Bibliography of
Australia.”
Dr. N. H.
Fisher
Chief Geologist, Bureau of
Mineral Resources.
Dr. J. Gentilli
Senior Lecturer in
Geography, University of
Western Australia.
G. J. Rodger
Director-General, Forestry
and Timber Bureau.
Geoffrey Sawer
Professor of Law, Aus-
tralian National University,
Canberra.
E. W. Titterton
Professor of Nuclear
Physics, Australian National
University, Canberra.
Sir Samuel
Wadham
Professor of Agriculture,
University of Melbourne,
1926-57.
STY L E & PRESEN TAT 10 N
The Australian Encyclopaedia is more than a dependable source of factual
information. Contributors have observed the principle of clarity and readability,
and the result is an understanding writing style that encourages readers to widen
their horizons of knowledge.
To assist the reader, the type face is bolder than is usually found in works of
reference. The material is amply paragraphic and tl\ere is a free use of cross-
headings and side-headings. The size of each volume is 1014" x 714" x 1 3 A".
ILLUSTRATIONS
The number of illustrations exceeds
2,000, comprising 62 plates in colour;
approximately 1,600 black and white
photographic illustrations; and more than
600 line-drawings, maps, charts and
diagrams.
In variety and number the maps provide
further evidence that the Encyclopaedia
is an enterprise unique in Australian
publishing. There is a general map of
Australia, measuring 19 by 17 inches
drawn by the National Mapping Office.
Each set carries two sets of this map—
one bound in, the other loose.
ARTICLES
In the preparation of the Australian
Encyclopaedia the utmost care has been
taken that no facet of Australian life
should be overlooked. The 6,200 subjects
deal with:
History, Biography, Natural History,
Geography, Minerals', National Development,
Transport and Communications, Primary
Industry, Manufacture, Research, The Arts,
Professions, Sport, Education, Social Organ-
isations, Aborigines, War, Aviation, Papua,
New Guinea.
ORDER FORM
Angus & Robertson Ltd., '
89 Costlereogh Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W. ,
Please deliver to me a set of the AUSTRALIAN ENCYCLOPAEDIA (10 volumes) for which
( ) I enclose payment in full (£5O).
( ) I enclose deposit of £5 and agree to make 9 monthly instal-
ments of £5 and a final payment of £3/15/- (Total £53/15/-).
( ) Charge to my account.
‘Mark which method of payment required. Freight is extra outside Capital Cities.
NAME
PRIVATE ADDRESS
If you wish to pay by deposit and monthly instalments, please supply the names and addresses, of two
business references:—
0)
(2) *—
We will supply, free of charge and without obligation, a 24-page illustrated prospectus
to readers who would like further information and are genuinely interested.
B. 18.6.58


FOR IMMEDIATE SALE
Any reasonable offer considered
The engine is fitted with Bosch fuel pump, Gardner injectors,
electric starting equipment, 2 fuel filters, fuel tank, alternate hand
starting arrangement, water circulating pump, air filters, Amal pump,
fan and drive. Standard set of spares, tools and instruction hook.
This auxiliary generator plant was installed in 1952 during electrical
shortages, to provide power and lighting for our five floor building
in which is situated our factory, workrooms, offices and large
department showrooms and connecting elevator. Its use since
installation has been negligible and it can be regarded as being in
almost new condition.
The Agent has stated that Gardner Engines retain their value,
and this particular Engine, having had constant care and regular
test running, can be considered a most attractive and satisfactory
prox»osition for a purchaser.
GARDNER Compression
Ignition Oil Engine LW
Series of 6 Cylinders rated
at 60 BHP at 1,000 r.p.m
Coupled to:
42£ K.V.A. at .8 P.F. 415 volts
MARELLI Alternator complete
with control panel.
Steady power supplies enable us to
otter this valuable plant for sale.
It may be inspected by arrange-
ment with Angus & Coote Pty.
Ltd., Manufacturing Jewellers and
Silver plate makers, 500 Cj.eorge
Street, Sydney.
Enquiries should be addressed to
The Secretary,
ANGUS & COOTE
G.P.O. Box 258, Sydney. Australia-
one, the soprano, was stabbed
today. By her lover.”
“So! His passion is great.
She feared it had waned. And
me,” her voice quavered with
spite, “do I get the pay of a
singer?”
Which was all for effect —-
Natasha had always yearned to
sing, not dance. Her eyes
softened from their snapping
as she- switched quickly from
inflamed French into the
courteous English of her
customer. “This gentleman
wishes champagne. A
magnum,” she added, adroitly
touching the thick wrist of her
partner. A flame of desire shot
through him. Had she ordered
a bucket of diamonds he
couldn’t have refused her.-
The manager smiled, decided
not to show anger at this
dancing-girl of unpredictable
actions, since she brought in 1
much profit. “Myself, I will
bring the champagne.” He
clicked his heels, bowed, and
left them.”
This was the pattern of that
fascinating girl’s behavior, as
reported to me by Wash Amah,
who kept a disapproving eye on
these close neighbors of ours:
raucous Ningpo with the wild,
frizzy perm, and Natasha who
was almost too beautiful to be
true. I marvelled at their being
able to make a living at all in
this wonderful wicked city, our
Paris of the Orient. “Like
mistress, like servant,”
grumbled my conservative
Amah. “Both just giggle-talk.
No wanchee get husban’, just
catchee beaux.”
Amah had evidently picked
up a few pertinent details at
the Jade Lantern, where she
pushed her way in occasionally
as substitute attendant at the
cloakroom. She had been
married to a man who had
beaten her, sold her .clothes
to buy opium, and finally run
away with all her hard-earned
savings. But still she believed
in nothing short of marriage
for a woman.
“Proper bad girl, that
Ningpo,” said Amah, who
vowed that half a good Chinese
servant’s business was to
sustain strong character in her
mistress. By which reasoning
Amah felt that any impractical
misbehavior which might be
occurring in the colorful menage
above our heads could be set
down to a weakness in Ningpo!
Amah looked at me with steel
in her eye, as, pointing firmly
at my sand-shoes, she handed
me my black suede to change
into before my husband
returned home for dinner.
’T'his night would be different
A for Natasha. Because of
the strip-tease. It was a special
innovation in her life.
Now that we were nearing
the Nationalist - Communist
siege of our wealthy shipping-
port, soldiers were billeted in
Shanghai, there was curfew, _
and everyone must officially be
off our streets by 9.30 p.m.
Nightclubs were permitted to
function only at the weird and
unprofitable hours of 5 p.m. to
9 p.m. The Jade Lantern was
at its wits’ end, trying to devise
a way to meet expenses. But
the Orient is never stumped for
long. Suddenly manna fell, as
from heaven.
Chinese officers in well-
pressed, well-cut, olive-drab
gaberdine uniforms who liked
to drop-in at the Jade Lantern
late, on their way home from
“strategic nightly conferences
re carrying-out the military
defence of the city,” whispered
a suggestion to the Hungarian
manager: Why not obey the
letter of the law by ejecting all
from the crowded premises at
9 o’clock, closing the ballroom,
closing the garden where the
low, husky voice of that lush
singer drifted from the tree-
shadows as she came full-
throated to lounge beside the
blue lake send everybody
away, turn out the lights.
Then, when unknowing
customers had scattered home-
wards to be within doors before
curfew, let the management
open the storeroom at the back.
Here, with blackout-curtains
closely drawn, and only a few
candles lighted . . .' a special
programme ... a few chosen
patrons admitted at a special
large price. . .
“When nerves are taut,
money is no object,” they
ended, openly handing their
hovering waiter a five-dollar
tip. “We must relax.”
The Hungarian manager,
delighted with this plan, took
Natasha, the most talented of
his 11 dancing-girls, into
his confidence. Long ago,
while serving as a wine-boy at
a midnight cafe in the Panama
Canal Zone, he had witnessed
a strip-tease act. Could
Natasha do it? And, twisting
his body until the long tails
of his formal dinner-jacket
flipped hither and yon and his
sleek black hair fell in wild
strands about his earnest face,
the manager went through the
coaxing, rejecting, enticing, and
seductive motions which make
up a strip-tease.
“Certainly,” said Natasha,
who needed no urging when it
came to displaying her gorgeous
body at its best, and concealing
disappointment at being no
longer a singer; the colora-
tura . . . she’d rip that lying
white satin dress to bits! She
slapped an encroaching red-
and-green office-parrot back
on to* its perch.
“Yes! But lis-sen, Zurak
[louse]. It shall be as I like,
not as you dictate. See?”
And thumbing her perfect
nose she turned her back
impudently upon him and went
home.
"JUow she was getting dressed
for her act. This required
some heavy thinking, both on
her part and on Ningpo’s, who
stood spread-legged behind
Natasha as she sat at her
mirror up in their flat.
A flesh - colored satin
brassiere and a long evening-
frock make-up a Shanghai
dancing-girl’s usual work-outfit.
But in a strip-tease act more
garments must be added. How
else can bit by bit be tantalis-
ingly removed over a period of
10 minutes’ dancing until the
body sheds its final item—
and in one swift flash the
chrysalis emerges, beautiful,
seductive, and naked?
“Get thees and that . . . and
the other theengs,- then add
mor-re, and see if you can find
extras; queek, Ningpo!”
Natasha’s throaty voice kept
instructing above her maid-
servant’s hoarse acquiescence,
until the rainbow-pile of dainty,
shimmering, diaphanous, inti-
mate flimsies that add to the
body-beautiful mounted into a
heap on the bedroom-floor;
and Wash Amah sitting on my
back-veranda, concealed, she
thought, by the twilight, could
hear the pounding of Ningpo’s
lusty feet as, she sped between
the bedroom where her mistress
and the garments were and the
kitchen, where were a pot* of
golden dye made from boiled
onion-skins, and the ironing-
]?oard.
At last all was complete.
Natasha left for the Jade
Lantern via the f-ront door;
Ningpo came out the back door
onto their veranda. She lit
a cigarette and blew its smoke


J
NO SINGLE RUM CAN MATCH IT!
RED JACK RUM
o
3
KDJACX
BLENDED FROM QUEENSLAND'S
CHOICEST 7-YEAR-OLO
POT-STILL RUMS. NO "SINGLE"
RUM CAN MATCH IT
Specially blended by
John Dewar & Sons Ltd., Sydney and
Harbottle Brown & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney
f
DWB7
downwards toward Wash
Amah.
“How tired! Tonight I
work so hard for my Missie.
Put on everything very beauti-
ful. So bimeby she dance, take
away everything very slow,
very lovely. Knowing this she,
I, do very clever. First we
put on her one teeny, we-eny,
thin pair brief-pantie .
Wash Amah, stealthily and
without making a sound,
removed herself, off my
veranda, back into my kitchen
where her indignant ears were
not subjected to the raucous
voice of Ningpo as she gloat-
ingly named over, one by one,
the enchanting articles in which
she had clothed the tantalising
body of Natasha.
’’T'he Orient has its mysteries.
In what way Amah got
downtown to that nightclub
despite curfew, and under what
pretext she gained entrance
to secrete herself while watch-
ing the show, I shall never
know. But without her report
I could not have rounded-out
my story of that night’s doings.
It was past midnight. Excite-
ment hung heavy at the Jade
Lantern. Wine had flowed
freely there in the darkened
back-room ; was still flowing.
The dancing-girls had with-
drawn to their cubbyhole and
were getting undressed for the
chorus.
The two bronzed Western
men left behind in Shanghai to
settle affairs for a big business-
firm before the possible city
crash came had paid 25
dollars each to gain entrance
to this secret club-session.
They sat squeezed in between
olive-drab uniforms, dark
lounge-suits, and long silk
Chinese gowns. At small
tables ; an audience all of men.
None could they recognise in
the scented darkness, nor did
they care to do so.
The younger man all even-
ing had been looking for
something, hungry-eyed, at
each bar they had gone into,
watching girls leaning elegantly
forward, each talking with her
escort, touching his sleeve;
looking for something that
called at dusk with the sweet
languor of the Orient and
vowed that tonight, this very
•night in this city, this night-
club, a thing of desperate love-
liness would happen if only he
smoked enough cigarettes,
drank enough liquor, found the
right girl. Because the girl,
although not the sum-total, was
a necessary factor. Wash
Amah had sensed all this as
she noted his presence.
“Yippee L Here comes the
chorus,” said the older man
as a spotlight flooded the stage.
A bevy of girls -was posed
there: Laughing girls in
heart-shaped midriff-outfits of
scarlet satin, tight, smooth-
fitting, satin shoes to match
the ribbons that controlled their
shining black or yellow curls.
At each curvaceous waistline
was a cupid’s bow and sheaf
of tiny sparkling arrows.
The orchestra played, and the
red hearts with suppleness and
grace swung into a fast number
which displayed their rounded
breasts and thighs. They bent
forward from the waist and
clapped their fairy hands while
alternately resting on their right
and left legs. Next, balanced
each on one knee, they turned
their heads right and left in
unison and, sighting with 'one
deliciously naughty eye, they
shot their sparkling arrows into
the audience.
Then, springing to both feet,
the Red Hearts scattered from
the stage and with right hands
resting on their hips, the spot-
light following, they walked in
a circle close to the tables.
The music adapted itself to
some gay and chancy thing in
the girls’ natures ; their smiling
faces showed them ready for a
romping forgetfulness of all but
the moment.
The spotlight went out.
Little squeals of “Maria
Isakova, where are you . . .?”
“Veritchka, darling • • .” and
“Christl liebes . . Giggles,
baritone - murmurs and soft
whispering attested they had
found their places with the
men.
A light glowed on the stage,
faded to dusty mist-like silver
moonbeams. The clump of
bamboos stirred. A tawny
swirling mass of golden scarves
and amber draperies leapt into
the moonlight and threw back
her mane of rippling chestnut
hair.
“The Golden Tiger! ”
breathed the darkened
audience. Natasha had begun
her strip-tease act.
“She’s dancing the ‘Saga of
the Fleeing White Russian,’ ”
explained the older Westerner
in surprise to the younger man
who was busy with a Red Heart
perched on his knee. “And
damn’ good at it . . . it’s about
those nineteen-eighteen, nine-
teen-twenty-two years when the
White Russians rushed here
from the Bolsheviks —what a
glorious figure she's got!”
They watched the tawny
creature in the diaphanous
scarves weave her charm in
the moonlight. . .
Leaving the dear home, the
cozy samovar, the ikon,
crossing the snowy wastes of
Siberia, casting off garments in
her haste, a scarf in lieu of
ermine and sables . . . Arrested
by an imaginary Bolshevik at
the mountain - pass, she
arrogantly flung her body at
him ; was repulsed. Then she
approached his companion
with pride, head up, smiling.
No avail. So, pleading, she
offered him her pearl-earrings.
He snatched them and one
diamond slipper, grabbed her
bracelet. . .
She escaped, shedding
scarves, over mountains, down
a river, while the hidden stage-
orchestra poured out the
“Volga Boatman,” paying her
way with more garments;
fiercely prowling for food,
pouncing on birds . . . forced
into prison.
Enticing the warden to turn
his back, she leaped to the out-
side world once more, wriggled
her pliant body along a deep
ditch in daytime, ran swiftly
by night, throwing her tiny
money-pouch to pursuers close
on her heels. Then the last
barrier.
Stealthily she approached it,
and the guard there, proudly,
fiercely, not like a supplicant
but as a tiger stalking her prey.
She was in her bare feet now,
only one thin scarf remained
from her one-time wealth of
possessions. She clutched this
scarf to her, weaving in and
out, seducing, mesmerising
the guard at this last barrier—
successfully ; he let her go.
Beautiful but dazed, she
staggered across the barrier, just
as her mother who had made
this terrible escape must have
done, shaded her eyes with one
hand, looked slowly around,
arrd realised she had made it.
She was in China, a haven at
that time for the persecuted.
Flinging her last golden
scarf off in a wild gesture of
freedom, Natasha stood gazing
for a moment at this strange
land she has entered, her lovely
tip-tilted breasts like trans-
lucent bells, her long legs
slimly rounded, her white body
stark naked, her hair a mass
of chestnut ripples. Then she
leaped from view, behind the
black-velvet curtain.
T}OR the performer, dancing
the strip-tease is only one-
half of the act. The other half
is getting home, safe from the
flood of primitive emotions
aroused in the audience.
Ningpo awaited Natasha in
the nightclub dressing-room.
She had stood with her eye
pressed to a hole in the velvet
curtain during the performance,
was proud of her mistress and
(Continued on page 57)


Two Sides of the Coal Scene
Having exchanged Barton and
the shores of Botany Bay for
Hunter and the coalmines, Dr.
Evatt has lost no time in mastering
the technique of vote-catching in a
mining community. “Exploitation by the
mineowners” is part of the electioneering
stock-in-trade of every coalfields M.P.,
and “nationalisation” is the standard
cure for all troubles in the mining-
industry.
At a meeting in Kurd Kurri the Doc.
dutifully trotted-out the former phrase,
and his statement that it is the duty of
the Government to see that the industry
is “run by the people for the people”
doesn’t mean anything if it doesn’t mean
nationalisation. Dr. Evatt attacked the
mineowners for taking excessive profits
and for exploiting the people. Specifi-
cally he blamed them for “pursuing
mechanisation without regard for the
moral rights of employees and its effect
on them.”
In echoing these catchcries the Federal
Opposition-leader is really attacking the
Joint Coal Board set-up by the Chifley
Government of which he was Deputy
Leader. Among other functions, the
board fixes coal-prices, so it may be said
to exercise considerable influence on the
profits of the colliery proprietors. It
has also played a very active role in
encouraging the mechanisation of the
industry.
Five years ago, discussing the future
of the coal-industry in the face of com-
petition from the oil-refineries then
planned and since brought into produc-
tion, the board saidsin its 1953 report:
The extent to which the industry can
hold its markets will depend upon the
degree to which it can reduce its prices
and costs. Fundamentally this resolves
itself into a question of technical efficiency.
Large sections of the industry are still far
from efficient, and the application of
modern mining methods, combined with
mechanisation, give them an opportunity
which they can only ignore at their peril.
That the warning has been heeded is
shown in the board’s tenth annual report,
covering its activities for the year ended
June 30, 1957, which shows that in the
intervening period the percentage of coal
won from fully-mechanised mines rose
from 30.8 p.c. to 54.8 p.c., with a corres-
ponding improvement in output per man-
shift from 4.58 tons to 5.22 tons, which
had the effect of boosting the output per
manshift throughout the whole industry
from 2.95 tons to 3.71 tons. As a result
of this the selling-price f.o.r. colliery was
reduced from 645. 6d. in 1952 to 575. lid.
in 1957, although wholesale prices on
other goods had increased during the
period and wages in the coal-industry
had also risen.
Production a Record
'T'he 1957 report was, indeed, able to
A speak much more confidently than
its predecessors, most of which, while
attempting to be reassuring,, have had
undertones of gloom. Their story has
been one of falling inter-State markets
and of industries going over to fuel-oil
or diesels. They have done their best to
water-down the impression given by some
alarmists that the coal-industry is
doomed. Nevertheless, some of the
doubts have peeped through.
Production for the year 1956-57 was
15,230,000 tons. This was a record out-
put, and the board coyly remarked that
it “represents an increase of 36 per cent,
as compared with 1946, the year before
the establishment of the board.” It could
also have commented that it was more
than had been produced in the whole of
Australia in any year before 1950.
Of the total output, 14,465,000 tons
came from underground mines. The
opencuts, developed in the early postwar
years when the"problem was to produce
more coal as quickly as possible, de-
clined in importance once supply caught
up with demand. Last year they contri-
buted only 765,000 tons to the total.
The board considers that more import-
ant than even the record production was
the fact that 99 per cent, of the coal
mined w r as either consumed or exported
—only about one per cent, went to
increase stocks. The significance of this
is that the industry is not depending, as
was the case a few years ago, on the
Government’s willingness to build-up a
stockpile—-a policy that could only be a
temporary expedient to maintain employ-
ment or to ease the industry through a
difficult period.
The inter-State market is still declin-
ing—it fell last year by 86,000 tons to
2,023,00(1 —but the board draws some
consolation from the fact that the rate of
decline has slowed down, although Vic-
toria’s introduction of a Lurgi gas-plant
utilising browmcoal presages a further
decline in the sale of gas-coal.
Overseas sales, once a source of con-
siderable revenue to the N. S. Wales
coalfields, but for many years a negligible
quantity, showed a recovery last year,
when 555,000 tons of coal was shipped
abroad. It is necessary to go back 30
years to find a higher figure. Japan
(229,000 tons), Korea (102,000 tons) and
Noumea (189,000 tons) were the princi-
pal customers, but New Zealand took
14,200 tons and Fiji 16,700 tons. There
was also a shipment of 2700 tons to
Hong Kong.
The Work-force
Touring the year the number of men
employed in the N.S.W. coal-
industry dropped by 1185 to 16,749. The
previous year’s reduction had been 1483.
These figures, coupled with the fact that
pits are still being closed-down on the
northern field, lend color to the claims
of Dr Evatt and others that the industry
is in a bad way. However, despite the
figures mentioned above, the number of
miners registered as unemployed at the
end of June, 1957, was only 50. The
report ascribed this to:
(1) The fact that some collieries gave
longer than the prescribed notice of
impending dismissals, thus giving the men
a better chance of finding alternative
employment.
(2) The active work of the re-employment
committees (comprising representatives of
the Commonwealth Employment- Service,
the colliery proprietors, the mining unions
and the Coal Board).
(3) The board’s scheme of assistance to
displaced miners wishing to transfer to
southern coalfields where vacancies were
numerous.
Ip commenting on the fact that a
large number of men at Kurri, Weston
and Paxton had received . dismissal-
notices, Dr. Evatt said this was because
“machines had been introduced at will
by employers. Mechanisation in'itself
was good, but machines should not be
let take the place of men without prepara-
tion.”
Unpleasant Truth
nP’His scarcely fils the known facts, which
•*- are that mechanisation has been
urged and encouraged by the Joint Coal
Board and that it has not been intro-
duced suddenly or without warning, but
gradually and as part of a prepared plan.
The board’s annual reports have con-
tinually warned that a decline in employ-
ment in that area of the northern field
must be expected. The unpleasant truth
which the mining unions and Dr. Evatt
refuse, to" face is that by keeping open
an uneconomic pit in order to provide
employment, or in refraining from
mechanising a pit for the same reason
the industry places its future in jeopardy
and takes gratuitous risks in price-
competition with rival fuels. The
immediate distress caused by closing an
uneconomic mine is obvious. The long-
term result of keeping it open is not so
readily apparent, but may well be
disastrous.
But, taking the whole bro.ad scene of
the N.S.W. coal-industry instead of one
small sector, there is no sign of disaster;
It is accepted that the great bulk of the
State’s production must find a market
within its own borders, but that market
is expanding and should continue to
expand. Although there will be an
increased use of hydroelectric power as
the Snowy Mountains Scheme comes into
production, coal will continue to be the
main source of electric energy in N.S.W,
Power-stations planned for various sites
on the coalfields will ensure a steadily
increasing market for some years to
come. Senator Spooner, Minister for
National Development, said early this
month that it was anticipated that the
use of coal in generating electricity would
double in the next 20 years, despite the
competition from oil and nuclear power.
If that estimate is anywhere near right,
then there is no need for alarmist talk
about immediate action “to save the
mining community from disaster.”


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
A Splendid Filly
Champion two-year-old filly
Wiggle won the Q.T.C.’s
£lO,OOO Stradbroke Handicap
in fast time. The stable, at
least, considered she had an
excellent show, in view of her
fine wins in her own age-group,
and at 12 to 1 (starting price)
and the earlier longer odds it
had a nice sort of win.
Wiggle is raced by K. W.
Godby and trained by R. Shirt-
liff. Her share of the prize-
money (£6653) brought her
winnings to £12,759, for six
firsts from eight starts. Ridden
by W. Camer (who won the
race on Karendi four years
ago), Wiggle defeated Yaha-
beebe, with Duchesne and
Grifite dead-heating for third.
Wiggle’s time, 1.245, was close
to Kingster’s race-record, 1.23 f,
established last year.
Wiggle’s owner, Godby, is
a keen student of the breeding-
side of the Turf. As an owner-
trainer he won the 1949 Doom-
ben Cup with Rio Fe. Wiggle
cost him a modest 360gns. —
his selection from the first
b*tch of the Rego (imp.) pro-
geny offered at the Randwick
auction last year by Carl Powell,
of' Brooklyn Lodge Stud,
Aberdeen (N.S.W.). A second
foal, Wiggle is from Sweet
Nymph by Beau Port from
Miss Eagleton by Veilmond,
tracing back to Bobadil.
Family-lines include Arboreal,
a winner of the Queensland
Cup, and Bobrikoff, a crack
New Zealand stayer of earlier
years (his many successes
included the two-miles Auck-
land Cup).
Though a top sprinter in her
first season, Wiggle could de-
velop staying-ability: others
of her relatives besides the two
stayers mentioned won over
distances. Her sire, Rego, was
successful in England to 8$
furlongs ; her grandsire, Nas-
rullah, sired Never Say Die
(Derby) and Nashua, the world-
record prizernoney winner,
who was sold for the world-
record price of £A560,774.
Wiggle’s yearling brother
brought 3100gns. at last Easter’s
Randwick sales.
• • • •
Wiggle was the fifth two-
year-old to win the Stradbroke,
the others being Sweetheart,
Fitzgrafton, Line Gun and
Amberdown. The last-named
scored in 1916, and later
became a top winner in the
best Brisbane sprint company.
Last two-year-old to start in
the Brisbane sprint was
Waireka, third to Bahwing in
1939.
Owner-breeder M. V. Point
declined an offer of 250gns.
when the now two-year-old
Bardshah was offered among
several yearlings from the Sled-
mere Stud, Scone (N.S.W.), at
the Randwick sales last year.
Bardshah, who hasn’t done
much racing, had his first win
—a rather impressive one —in
the A.J.C. Juvenile Stakes, at
“ ’Course you can stay the night."
Randwick on Saturday, with
his stablemate, Royal Percep-
tion, second and Murchison
third. Point also refused
llOgns. for Royal Perception
and 120gns. for Morning
Gleam at the same auction:
Morning Gleam won at Rose-
hill last Saturday week, and
maybe Royal Perception will
soon be a winner—he has
filled a number of minor plac-
ings. Bardshah, by Royal
Empire, is bred to stay, as his
dam, Camshah, is related to
several English gallopers who
won races at from 10 to 16
furlongs. The dam is by Shah-
poor from Camarette by
Cameronian.
• • • •
Kinvarra Girl, easy winner
of the St. Aubins Maiden
Handicap for fillies and mares
at Randwick, was secured as
a yearling for 1650gns. by her
trainer, Jim McCurley. Raced
by E. A. Coghlan, the three-
year-old filly is a daughter of
Tsaoko (Fr.) from the 1947
V.R.C. Oaks winner, Nizam’s
Ring—the dam is, of course,
a Nizami (Fr.), from Ringless
by Ringmaster (imp.).
• • • •
Randwick racegoers were
impressed by apprentice Keith
Smith’s riding on the first day
of the A.J.C.’s winter fixture.
Smith, indentured to Rosebery
trainer Les O’Rourke, can ride
at the limit (7st.); his claim
of 41b., reducing Tranquilette’s
weight to 7st., was an import-
ant factor in Tranquilette’s
stylish win in the Ellesmere
Handicap. Smith claimed the
full 71b. on Aura in the pre-
ceding event, the June Stakes,
reducing that mare’s weight to
7.4, and he made the most
of her pull in the weights,
leading for the greater part of
the race. It was an unusual
achievement for an apprentice
not long in racing to win a
main Randwick double.
R. R. Moore, of Yarraman
Park, Scone (N.S.W.), bred
Jose, narrow winner of Bal-
moral Graduation Stakes at
Randwick. Raced by Mrs. G.
G. Brown, wife pf Rosebery
trainer Gordon Brown (who
won many thousands in stakes
a few years ago with Murray
Stream), Jose is a three-year-
old half-brother to Doncaster
winner Grenoble: he is by
Berrylands (imp.) from Quest
by Yaralla from Mina G. by
Magpie (imp.) from Queen
Ingoda (sister to King Ingoda,
winner of the 1922 Melbourne
Cup) by Comedy King (imp.).
With more experience Jose
could develop staying ability ;
he shows promise of it in his
present racing. Family-lines
also include Corinax, a winner
of the Auckland Cup.
The Colburt family, father
and tlwee sons, had George
Moore to thank for the win at
Randwick of their smart filly
Empress Fay in the Two-year-
old Stakes. With about a
furlong to go it seemed that
Miss Oriel and Straightlaced
(who filled the minor places)
had the race to themselves.
Moore, however, got a smart
run along the rails, saved his
mount for a last-ditch sprint
to the post, and just landed
the money by a short head,
with a similar distance between
the other two. Empress Fay is
by Emperor (Fr.) from Fay-
astra and is trained at Rose-
hill by Tom Kennedy. In
November the filly won a
Canterbury Park Maiden.
• • • •
Valiant Prince, who is at
home on a slightly dead track,
had conditions to 'suit him at
Randwick, when, ridden by
Brisbane apprentice R. Wilton,
he nicely won the Botany High-
weight, over six furlongs. A
rails run from the start assisted


BALD PATCHES
Hair grown Secret formula
Sacred Eastern Oils. Karel v
fails. Treats Alopecia. Leading
broadcaster's hair grown after
years of Baldness. Effective
treatment for dandruff (Basic
cause of nearly all Hair sick-
ness). and stops falling Pair.
My Perl in I treatment restores
grey hair to original colour.
Not a dye—not injurious, not
obvious.. Names given of lead-
ing citizens (with their per-
mission) who gratefully testify*
My treatment used in privacy
of your home.
For free advice write—
MRS. A. EASTON,
Box 5204, G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE
the gelding and, as well as the
conditions, Wilton’s claim of
71b. further helped in the win.
Under his 9.5, runner-up Lord
Ray battled on gamely, but
he was giving away too much
weight (171 b.).
¥ * *
National Weights
V.R.C. handicapper C. H.
Davis has allotted weights for
the Grand National Hurdle
and Steeple. Original top-
weight in the Hurdle, Arabil
(11.7) has broken-down
already, and now Fordell
(11.5) heads the list. Last
year’s Australian Hurdle win-
ner, King Rheo, is nicely in
with 10.9 ; he looks the early
pick at the weights. An
interesting assessment is Book
Value's 11.3. Outstanding
hurdler last winter, Book
Value broke-down a few days
before the National. If he is
sound again he should be a
big chance in this year’s race.
McKenna (10.11) may be set
for the Steeple, but he is one.
horse who could win the
double. Further down in the
weights, Lord Celere (10.2),
Law Glide (9.10) and As prey
(9.0) make most appeal.
Pedro’s Pride, greatest
jumping mare ever to race
in Melbourne, was an auto-
matic topweight in the Steeple,
and she has the maximum of
12.7. That prodigious burden
is not beyond her if she over-
comes the trouble in her weak
leg. McKenna (1f.3) makes
great appeal in the Steeple.
At the big jumping carnival
at Warrnambool recently he
won the Brierly Steeplechase
with 10.7 and the Warrnambool
Grand Annual with 10.10.
Bright Lu is nicely handicapped
with only 9.7, and her stable-
mate, Redfield (10.8), seems to
have taken kindly to the fenc-
ing game. If only because he
can plod on indefinitely,
Pagranoma (9.12) must come
into calculations.
• • • •
Shocking weather made it
difficult to assess the jumping
form at Flemington last Satur-
day. The track had been
saturated, and during the day
violent gusts of rain and an
occasional hailstorm made the
jumping precarious. Winner
of the two-mile York Hurdle
was the six-year-old Man-
damus gelding Law Glide, and
the win gained him many
friends for the National.
Comparatively new to jump-
ing, Law Glide has now won
three in a row. In February
he won a Hurdle in weak
company at Caulfield, and then
showed his versatility by win-
ning a six-furlongs sprint at
Woodend. He finished better
than any other runner in the
York Hurdle, and may be able
to see out the exacting three
miles of the National. He has
only 9.10 in the big race, 61b.
less than he carried on Satur-
day. Trainer George McCor-
mick does not intend to start
him again before the National.
Not surprisingly in the heavy
conditions, ‘ the Hopetoun
Steeple also went to a light-
weight, the five-year-old mare
Bright Lu. If the National
Steeple happens to .be run in
similar conditions Bright Lu
will have a lot of admirers.
She carried 9.9 on Saturday,
and drops a couple of pounds
in the National. If she does
prove good enough to win next
month, she won’t be the first
National winner for owner
W. Ryan —he won the 1956
National Hurdle with Red-
field. Bright Lu should be able
to stay the National distance
—she is by Melbourne Cup
winner Sirius, who was by sire
of stayers Enfield.
At its June meeting two
years ago the V.R.C. originated
the Provincial Plate, and it
looks as if the race will become
an Last year
it had to be divided, and on
Saturday three heats were
necessary. 'ln presenting the
trophies for the winners, Vic-
torian Premier H. E. Bolte
commended the V.R.C. for
staging the event and urged
the club to keep dividing the
race into as many heats as
entries warrant.
Conditions of the Plate state
that it is for three-year-olds
and over that have started at
least four times outside a
radius of 50 miles of the G.P.O.
in any State within 12 months
of date of entry, and that have
not won a Metropolitan race
within two years of the same
date ; runners to carry a weight
set according to age and sex.
Each division of the race last
Saturday was allotted £IOOO
prizemoney, plus trophy.
• • • ♦
Success of Spotted Nose in
the first division of the Plate
on Saturday may be respons-
ible for the insertion of a new
clause in the conditions in
future years. Since entries for
the Plate closed Spotted Nose
had won at Moonee Valley.
Possibly the relevant clause
will read “have not won a
Metropolitan race within 12
months of the date of the
race.” The field Spotted Nose
defeated at Moonee Valley was
better than fie met at Fleming-
ton. Despite a chequered run,
he won the first heat of the
Plate comfortably. The win-
ning ride enabled Geoff Lane
to set a new record for a Mel-
bourne apprentice. His score
this season is 37 outright win-
ners and two dead-heats (it
beats Harold Skidmore’s record
by a dead-heat).
Another very good appren-
tice rode the second Plate
winner, Riverina lad Roy Hig-
gins riding really well to get
Tauri home ahead of William-
son’s mount, Mount Emu. The
winner, a four-year-old Nea-
politan mare, had her first race
only last August, since when
she has won seven times from
10 starts, including the Corowa
Cup, which possibly meant
even more to owner C. Ruwolt
than the Flemington win—
Ruwolt is president of the
Corowa R.C. Trainer of
Tauri, J. R. Freyer, is also a
Corowa man. In fact, he com-
bines training with farming,
with the emphasis on the farm
and the training more-or-less
a hobby.
Winner of the third heat of
the Plate, White Archer, also
had a long trek to Headquarters.
He is a Western District
galloper, stabled at Casterton.
He was ridden by Bill Cutler,
a son of the Bill Cutler who
rode successfully in Melbourne
20 years ago. It was actually
a father-and-son double:
Cutler, senior, trains White
Archer.
Last spring the Ballarat-
trained gelding Top Fred had
Melbourne racegoers wonder-
ing whether he was an out-
and-out champion or just a
more-than-useful galloper. He
won a string of minor races so
easily that he was backed to
beat the great Tulloch in the
Caulfield Cup. The distance,
if not the class, of the Cup
proved beyond him. After a
long spell he came back to
racing in the six-furlongs
Royal Handicap at Flemington
on Saturday, and won so bril-
liantly that the speculation as
to his class has started all over
again. Apparently in a hope-
less position two furlongs from
home, he finished with such
dash that he had two lengths
to spare on the line.
* * *
The Trots
Seventeen-thousand trotting
fans loudly cheered Highland
Jan after the Harold Park
Handicap on the last night of
the trotting season on Friday:
in a close finish Highland Jan
scored by a neck from Young
Wexford, with Victory Dale a
neck away, third. Highland
Jan was second-last in the field
of nine after two laps, but
with a lap to go had improved
to be running fourth. She was
three wide entering the
straight, close behind Malniri
and Victory Dale, but half-
way down the straight forged
to the front, and was able to
withstand Young Wexford’s
determined challenge.
It was a bleak night for
bookmakers when Sandy
Highland, after getting away
smartly and pacing faultlessly,
won the seventh event, the
Boorowa Handicap. He was
the sixth favorite to win out
of seven .races.
J. C. Caffyn won the
drivers’ premiership with 22;
P J. Hall and J. D. Watts 19
each ; M. Adams 17,
The next Trotting Club fix-
ture will be on Saturday,
August 16.
Sundry Sports
After nine successive Test
defeats (two by South Africa
in 1956, two by N.Z. in 1957
and all five internationals in the
British Isles and France in
1957-58) Australia at last won
a Rugby Union Test when it
defeated the Maoris 15-14 at
the Exhibition Grounds, Bris-
bane. Australia’s last Test win
(8-3) was. over N.Z. in the third
Test at Auckland in 1955.
Saturday’s game was hard and
even, with the scores seesaw-
ing ; Lenehan’s boot did a lot
to keep Australia in it. Even
so. the Maoris led 14-9 with
only 6min. to go ; then deter-
mined winger Morton, after a
tricky run, went over, and
just on the bell Lenehan kicked


FnM in JJte
Fuinrc
To believe in ourselves we have to believe in
Life; and to do that we must take an intelligent
interest in what is happening in the world
around us.
One of the easiest errors into which I think
we as Australians could fall would be to sit back
and accept life as it comes—with its victories and
defeats, its harmonies and discords, its sorrows
and delights; in other words, to be content with
going our own individual way, being “average.”
<*
It was Oliver Wendell Holmes, that great
dispenser of wisdom, who described a group of
average intellects as awful in its uniformity, in its
automatic necessity of action.
Well, accepting as most of us surely do, that
a better-than-average effort is demanded in the
work ahead of us in building here a diversely rich
Australia, I would say we serve the highest patriotic
purpose by taking our minds well out past those
interests which surround us in our daily lives; by
getting to know and understand all we can of what
Australia has, and is, and will become, in the many
branches of its expansion.
Can it be said, for example, that a man serves
his country well if he is indifferent to the agriculture
on which its prosperity rests? Is it sufficient that
he has learnt in school of the courage of it£
explorers and the sacrifice of its early settlers, if
he should fail to carry into his own time the spirit
of faith they exhibited?
This practised love of country —this active
determination that Australia shall be not only
productively great, but shall grow strong and
wholesome in the character of its people—is the
richest thing we have to bring to its making; richer,
indeed, than the natural bounty we have been given
to work upon.
The blending is in our hands —and in the
inspired will of each one of us.
his fourth penalty-goal. The
Maoris were unlucky. However,
Australia’s team was weakened
by the withdrawal of three
stars originally selected, Con-
nor/ Harvey and Donald.
Teams from eight districts
contested this year’s N.S.W.
country carnival, and there
were some close and exciting
games, as well as one or two
absolute “walkovers.” A couple
of the teams were weak, but
on the whole the carnival
showed that Rugby Union in
the N.S.W. country is healthy.
The final, for the Caldwell
Cup, played at Eastwood Oval
last Saturday, was between
Newcastle and Riverina-South-
west, which had earlier sur-
prised by toppling Central
West, winners for the past two
years.
• • • •
Newcastle, led by experi-
enced Cyril Burke, won 17-14,
but had many anxious moments
in a close, hard-fought match ;
Riverina, lighter and faster, led
8-3 at one stage, and was
always in the game. It was
unlucky not to go over close
to the bell; also, one of New-
castle’s tries came when
Riverina had a man hurt on
the sideline. It was Newcastle’s
first win of the Caldwell Cup,
which was instituted in 1951.
* * m
“Frangeo”: Before 67,000
Australia last Saturday de-
feated England in the first
Rugby League Test at the
Sydney Cricket Ground 25-8.
This was one of Australia’s
greatest victories of the code,
and even though its side
was spotted with players out
of position, as a team and
individually they played mas-
terly football. Skipper Brian
Davies played one of the
greatest games of his career,
and his leadership, too, was
brilliant.
Starting off at a surprising
pace—at any rate it surprised
England—Australia tallied-up
13 points in as many minutes,
with O’Shea, Mossop and
Carlson scoring tries and full-
back Clifford kicking two
goals. At half-time Australia
led 18-0.
In the second half England
looked a bit better and tried
harder, but, even so, on the
day Australia was much too
good.
Australia’s half-back, Keith
Holman, in his twelfth Test,
played a superb game, tack-
ling solidly and making
numerous attacking moves.
For England, leader Alan
Prescott was the best player:
he started many good move-
ments, but the Australian
tackling was too deadly. Eng-
land’s points came from a try
and a goal by winger South-
ward and a try by Bolton.
* * *
“Rossby”: Richmond won
its first three V.F.L. games,
all in fine style. In the fourth
game Fitzroy thrashed it, the
Tigers recovered against Gee-
long, then in the sixth round
they crashed again when
Collingwood met them. At
that stage Richmond was still
in “the four,” but it’s now
well out of the premiership
running. The Tigers haven’t
won since they beat Geelong ;
Saturday’s 6.15-2.9 loss to
Carlton was their fifth in a
row. Their centre-line and
defence are patchy, and their
rovers, a force early, have
fallen away. Ruckman skipper
Roy Wright, dual Brownlow
Medallist, who was out for a
time with injury, has not
played up to his past great-
ness, though on Saturday he
dominated the rucks and was
Richmond’s best player.
* * *
The record-breaking Kon-
rads youngsters are at it again,
up at Townsville, where the
Empire Games Swimmers have
been training. John swam the
mile in a world-record 18min.
56.45ec. —44sec. faster than
U.S. swimmer George Breen’s
recognised 19min. 40.4 see. set
in 1956. Breen has, however,
swum the mile in 19min. 22sec.
(Sept., 1957)—still well outside
Konrads's new time. Konrads
now' holds all world freestyle
records from 220yds. to a
mile. Also, John's sister lisa
broke her own 880yds. freestyle
world-record by 4.4 sec. (new
time, lOmin. ll.Ssec.). This is
the third time this year she has
set new world-figures for
880yds. After these further
signs of the clear superiority
of both in the longer distances,
the celebrated character who
won’t bet on the sun rising next
day would surely be prepared
to wager on their winning
chances at the Games.
Record-breaking, too, was
the 22-year-old “veteran” of the
Empire Games swimmers,
Terry Gathercole, from West
Wyalong (N.S.W.), who set
new world times for the 110yds.
(lmin. 13.55ec.) and 220yds.
(2min. 40.55ec.) breaststroke.
* * *
Australian Peter Thomson
was £3OO short when he missed
a 3ft. putt in the Daks £2500
golf tourney, played at Surrey
(Eng.). Thomson tied for first
place with S’African Harold
Henning and collected £7OO.


A
5,55,000,000
ASSETS EXCEED £55,000,000 • ASSETS EXCEED £55,000,000 • ASSETS EXQ^
INVEST FOR SECURITY
IN REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
7 1 per annum.. 6 yrs.
per annum.. 4 yrs.
s^2per annum... 2 yrs.
5 X per annum... 1 yr.
4V4 per annum... 9 mths.
4 X per annum... 6 mths.
3 V/. per annum... 3 mths.
Full details are clearly shown in the Prospectus. Ask for your
copy from Members of the Stock Exchange , the 703 branches of the
AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND BANK LTD. or .. .
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
(Established 28 years)
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE * ADELAIDE • PERTH * HOBART • CANBERRA • NEWCASTLE
WOLLONGONG • GEELONG ' BUNBURY
ASSETS
E *C.
£55,000,000 « ASSETS EXCEED £55,000,000 • ASSETS EXCEED £55,000,000
Underwriting Brokers:
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne,
Canberra & Sydney,
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders:
The Perpetual Executors* T rustees
Association of Australia Limited.
Exceed £55,000,000 • assets exceed £ss^
OS9
concentrates Cup 22,486 tons)
containing 64,794 tons of
recoverable lead and 1,704,892
oz. silver.
Actual realisations over the
last three years are as
follows:
Zinc Con-
Lead, Silver, centrates,
Toris. oz. Tons.,
10f,.) .. 41,914 787,030 117,811
1956 . . .44,044 988,731 124,191
1957 .. 57,617 1,519,379 141,233
Falling metal prices robbed the
co. of the benefits of a higher
output and lower mining-costs,
average spot prices for both
lead and zinc dropping by over
16 p.c. on the L.M.E.:
Year.
Dee.3l, Lead. Zinc.
1955 .. £lO5 17 7 £9O 13 9
1956 .. 116 4 11 97 14 6
1957 .. 96 13 4 SI 12 4
A small improvement in spot
quotes for base metals was
reported last week, but at
£62 17s. 6d. a ton for zinc and
£7l ss. a ton for lead the com-
bined price falls well short of
the £175 regarded as “ reason
able” by New B.H. chairma
L. B. Robinson (All amount
are shown in sterling.)
The “value, at mine, o‘
products” slipped by £548,94
to £5,386,035, and, although
mining and milling costs wer
cut by almost 165., to £3 18s
per ton of ore milled, min
trading-balance was £418,369
lighter at £1,904,035. Pre-tax
earnings tumbled fron
£1,991,129 to £1,591,313, but
thanks to the big £582,382
reduction in tax-provision
(£534,217), the co. actually
finished-up with net earning
at a record £1,057,096, better
ing the previous term’s effor
by £182,567:
Dec., Profit. Dividends-! Reserves
it* p.e. £,* £*
’55.. 917.063 90 = 611,495 4,829.483
Share premiums, £93,040 4,923,423
I'nexp. additions. £ 18,544 4,941,967
’56.. 574.529 100 = 690,553-5,125,937
• Share premiums, £19,000 5,145,537
Surplus • tax-provisions,
£750,000 .. .. 5,805,537
Capital profits, £2219 .. 5,897,750
’57.-1,057,090 100 = 093,059 0,261,793
! Kate of div. is that def hired, bir ",
amount is shown after deducting Kng'lisl
tax. * Sterling.
Arising from recognition of the
co. as an overseas trading
corporation for the purposes of
U.K. taxation, tax-provisions
adding-up to a tidy £750,000
were no longer required. With
this amount back in the appro-
priation account and earnings
representing 87.7 p.c. on the
£1,204,629 paid capital (after
payment of tax on divs.),
maintenance of the effective
57.5 p.c. div.-rate was a rela-
tively simple matter.
At December 31 ore reserves,
“fully outlined and developed
ready for sloping or in the
process of being stoped,” were
calculated at 3,300,000 tons, an
increase of 100,000 tons:
a— Assay —^
Ore, Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Tons. p.c. Oz. p.c.
Above Xo.
16 level 900,000 4.9 1.2 13.7
Below Xo.
16 level 2,400.000 12.9 3.3 12.0
Total ..3.300,000 10.7 2.7 12.5
In order to prevent dismissals,
as a result of the planned reduc-
tion in output, a large group
of employees has been trans-
ferred from ore-extraction to
development work, and
development “far in advance of
that necessary for normal
operations is now being under-
taken.”
Well prepared financially to
cope with the difficult condi-
tions at present prevailing,
New B. H. had £3,750,895 in
current assets at the end of
the year to cover total liabilities
of £2,428,724.


WINTON SHIRE COUNCII
Early History—Winten, Q.
The Council of the Shire of
Winton requires information con-
cerning early history of Winton
District for publication in connec-
tion with Queensland Centenary
celebrations.
Please forward any available
information to Shire Clerk, Winton,
Queensland. Returns guaranteed.
B. C. PALMER, Clerk.
Nolica
IN THE. SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorck.
TO FRANCIS PATRICK HEFFERNAN
formerly of 195 Bunnerong Road
Maroubra.—TAKE NOTICE that
FLORENCE EVA HEFFERNAN has
filed Petition for Divorce No. 840 of
1958 on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
20th August 1958 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from LESLIE
BUNDLE & H. M. TAUBMAN. Soli-
citors. 6t> King Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUG HAN, Registrar.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
o'stri.uv\v
e 9 PTYITD .
, VIH aP'SS
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
• OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
Tt is, at first thought, a little
•*- surprising to learn that the
oldest of all multiple-shop
organisations, the Co-op., is
on the decline, the more
particularly as this one-time
standby of the masses came into
being with the double objective
of cutting-out the middleman
and of returning its surplus to
the customer in the form of
“divvy.”
Changes proposed by a
committee “ headed by Mr.
Gaitskell are not only drastic
but also cut right across
Co-operative principles. The
extensive report, which
was two years in the
making, recommends that the
1000 societies be reduced by
amalgamation to between 200
and 300 and that there be
formed national chains of
specialist dry-goods shops. The
amount of dividends will be
controlled and, instead of the
people’s elected representatives,
professional managers will run
the societies.
What has happened now
emerges clearly. The house-
wife is no longer drawn to the
Co-op. because it represents,
however vaguely, some kind
of working-class affinity; she
shops there either for con-
venience or because of the
“divvy.” And the organisation
is, by contemporary standards,
too easy-going and cosy. The
political momentum behind it is
not a force but a convention
that is dying-out.
So for the Co-op. to survive
as a going concern it will have
to be able to compete with
some formidable rivals. This
will mean greater efficiency, the
ploughing-back of capital for
expansion, and tight central
control.
There can be no denying that
Mr. Gaitskell’s committee-of-
inquiry has faced the facts
squarely, even to the irony of
the suggested reforms the
adoption of the methods of
free-enterprise.
Every Man and His Money
The 12th issue of the Stock
Exchange’s own journal is
astonishingly humble in
content, even when allowances
are made for its own insistent
protestations that it is neither
a rentier’s exclusive club nor
a gambling-hall.
That elusive and (one sus-
pects) embarrassing newcomer,
the small investor, is the centre
of attention in no fewer than
three out of the six technical
articles. One contributor,
praising the financial press
while criticising the Stock
Exchange’s service to the
private client, considers that
brokers should give informa-
tion unsought, that the Stock
Exchange is not paying enough
attention to private investors as
a class, and that brokers should
charge for advice.
Another pleads for a simpli-
fied and (not necessarily the
same thing) plainly-understood
presentation of company
accounts; he suggests that
the terms “profit,” “capital” and
“dividend” should be defined,
even to a standard means of
relating the latter to the equity
value of ordinary-share capital.
A third believes that if the
Exchange is “to make effective
contact with the great weight
of small money (and some of
it not so small) at present
divided largely between the
. Government savings channels
and the city corporations,
insurance - companies, unit-
trusts, building-societies and
hire-purchase bankers . . .” it
must advertise, as they do,
offering “direct benefits, or, at
least, direct services.”
If the City is not actively
seeking publicity, at least it
doesn’t mind the limelight. The
8.8. C. is allotting more time
to Stock Exchange news and
the number of investment-talks
has increased. The chairman
has appeared on “Woman’s
Hour” and the general
superintendent on “Radio
Newsreel.”
Young Playwrights
When the English Stage
Company was founded just
over two years ago its prime
object was to provide a plat-
form for new, indigenous
writers—a genus whose very
mention was then enough to
drive theatre - managers into
anxiety states.
In that short period not only
have young Cambridge gradu-
ates revivified the lighter stage,
but nearly every out-of-the-
ordinary new play seems to
have a youthful author. If
none has yet slung the theatri-
cal scene with the Osborne bite
there must be at least a dozen
young writers, professional and
otherwise, whose first plays
have won production.
More will certainly be heard
of “The Hamlet of Stepney
Green” (now at the Oxford
Playhouse) and of its author,
Bernard Kops, a former East
End boy who has just been
appointed resident dramatist at
the Bristol Old Vic. “The
Party,” which Charles Laugh-
ton selected for his London
reappearance, is the work of
Jane Arden, a 25-year-oid
married woman. John Morti-
mer’s double bill has earned a
transfer to the Garrick. Sig-
nificantly, these writers owe
nothing of their success to the
English Stage Company.
The most astonishing story
comes from Manchester, where
a 19-year-old girl, Shelagh
Delaney, going to the theatre
for the first time to see the new
Rattigan play, remarked to her
boy-friend, “I’m sure / can do
a lot better than that”; she
wrote, in a fortnight, an unin-
hibited but true-sounding play
of low-life in Salford, “A Touch
of Honey,” which was immedi-
ately accepted and produced by
the Theatre Workshop. It
wouldn’t please Aunt Edna,
but, maybe, Aunt Edna no
longer matters. The drama, it
would appear, has swung right
away from orthodoxy or pro-
fessionalism, and wants
novelty or personality.
It is fair to record that Miss
Delaney’s reaction to “Variar
tion on a Theme” is quite
understandable and that many
others could, no doubt, emu-
late her example successfully.
The play is a poor one, per-
haps Mr. Rattigan’s worst, in
which the craftsmanship is evi-
dent enough but the content is
weak and ill-chosen. Intended
as a show-piece for Margaret
Leighton’s virtuosity,
(a professional snarer of
wealthy husbands with a gigolo
constantly in tow) becomes
abhorrent over three acts, and
the Marguerite Gautier affinity
is nothing but contrivance. All
that stays in the memory is
Miss Leighton’s remarkable,
even miraculous, grace of
movement in the preposterous
Hartnell creations, which, one
understands, are the latest in
haute couture.
“Flesh to a Tiger,” the work
of a young West Indian, Barry
Reckord, has induced the
Royal Court Theatre to go
atavistically native. Here is a
Jamaican slum (astonishingly
conveyed by Loudon Sainthill’s
sets) with a profligacy of
squalor, voodoo, race, sex and
turgid prose-poetry. There are
some compelling moments, but
the author tries to say too
much and the acting is more
exuberant than adequate. Only
Edgar Wreford, as the white
doctor (remarkably akin, in
melodramatic decay, to Weston
of “White Cargo”) is techni-
cally sure, but Cleo Laine, the
jazz-singer, has the latent fury
and emotional gamut of the
natural tragedienne.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
LEBANON
/Commenting in London
“Sunday Times” on events
in Lebanon, J. B. Slade-Baker
sums-up a good deal of British
press-opinion when he notes
that these events “follow the
familiar pattern of propa-
ganda, infiltration, subversion
and revolt,” and that “the
immediate interest shown by
America and Russia indicates
not only that Lebanon is in
the front line of the cold war ;
but that events unwisely
handled could cause a major
conflagration.”
Adding to that opinion,
Lieutenant-General Sir John
Glubb writes in a letter to
London “Daily Telegraph”
that “twelve years ago there
was a desire for greater unity
between the Arabic-speaking
peoples, as a result of which
seven Arab Governments
formed the Arab League,
virtually accepting the leader-
ship of Egypt. But as the years
passed it became evident that
Egypt did not desire an Arab
brotherhood, but an Egyptian
empire.
“This tendency has been
intensified with the increasing
arrogance of Nasser. The
Egyptian Army being unable
to conquer such an empire,
Nasser has developed a tech-
nique of conquest based on
propaganda, intrigue and sub-
version.
“The process which we are
witnessing, therefore, is an
attempt by Egypt to enslave the
other Arabic - speaking
countries, and the resistance of
those countries to Egyptian
dictation. Egypt is not fighting
for Russia and the other Arab
countries for the West. The
Arab world is in travail,
endeavoring to give birth to a
way of life which will suit it.
The fact that the parties to the
contest have fallen in with the
division of the world between
East and West is scarcely more
than accidental.
“Egypt’s propaganda seeks to
represent herself as independent
and her rivals as colonies of
the West. It is ironical indeed
that the Egyptians should be
regarded as the representatives
of Arabism, when they are in
reality an arabicised African
race. By corollary the in-
habitants of Arabia who reject
Egyptian imperialism must
presumably be ‘anti-Arab.’ ”
Commenting in Edinburgh
“Scotsman” on the United
Arab Republics’ appeal to
Lebanon to withdraw, or post-
pone, its appeal to the U.N.
Security Council alleging
U.A.R. interference, Rawle
Knox suggests that the most
important factor in the
situation is the official realisa-
tion in Cairo —ever since the
Russian statement on Lebanon,
with its ominous mention, for
the first time ever in reference
to the Middle East, of unrest
on our southern borders —that
any further strengthening of
Moscow’s foothold in the
Middle East is unwelcome.”
Commenting meanwhile on
the American attitude, London
“Economist” notes that Mr.
Dulles’s resourceful legal brain
has hit on an interpretation of
the Eisenhower Doctrine which,
by stretching it unmercifully,
covers the dispatch of troops to
Lebanon should this become
unavoidable:
“Nothing would be more
distasteful to the United States
than to intervene; it hopes
devoutly that the arms which
have been sent will suffice and
will not be misused. But if the
United Arab Republic were to
seize power openly in Lebanon,
the American and British
Governments, which are work-
ing closely together, would feel
—London “Daily Mail”
They seek it here, they seek it there,
They seek his purpose everywhere.
Is he for one or is he for ail,
That demot’d elusive Charles de Gaulle?
fhat they had to act, if they
were not to stand condemned
in the Middle East of being
false friends. Lebanon, after
all, was the only Arab country
to embrace the Eisenhower
Doctrine.
“The irony is that the
doctrine, which provides
against an attack by a Com-
munist-controlled country,
could not be invoked to help
the Lebanese ; Mr. Eisenhower
would have difficulty in declar-
ing that Egypt, which bans the
Communist party, is under the
control of international Com-
munism. The President' has
inherent powers to act without
reference to the doctrine, but
this would look a trifle foolish
after all the fuss made last
year to obtain Congressional
sanction in advance. Mr.
Dulles’s triumph is to have
discovered apparent authority
to intervene against an attack
from non-Communist sources
in lines added to the Admini-
stration’s draft of the resolution
by Senator Humphrey. This
preamble states that:
“ The United States regards
as vital to the national interest
and world peace the preserva-
tion of the independence and
integrity of the nations of the
Middle East.’
“With an innocent air, Mr.
Dulles insisted that the Senate
would hardly have added a
meaningless phrase, and that,
if this one means anything, it
places on the President greater
responsibility in the Middle
East than he had before.”
An American (N.Y. “Herald
Tribune”) view sees the
Lebanese situation as a “show-
down for Nasser”:
“Lebanon, confronted with
‘massive interference’ by his
United Arab Republic invaders,
has called the cops. Its
Cabinet met and by a 7-to-3
vote called for protection by
the Security Council of the
United Nations.
“Presumably, Lebanon
would not have done this
unless it had all the necessary
proof that Egypt and Syria
provoked the uprisings which
threatened the Government.
If it has the proof, the
U.N. undoubtedly will act. If
the Soviet Union should veto
Security Council action, the
General Assembly will act —
just as it did on Suez to over-
ride the British-French veto.
The Assembly’s first action
would be similar—the order
of a cease-fire and withdrawal.
If Nasser continued his inter-
vention, a United Nations
expeditionary force could be
dispatched, this time not to


Missing Friends
ESTATE LATE LESLIE QUEST
WILL anyone having any information as
to the whereabouts of relatives of the
late FREDERICK QUEST who died in
Sydney in 1903, or their personal rep-
resentatives, or of JOSEPH LANE
(sometimes known as JOE LANE), be-
lieved to have resided at Newcastle,
N.S.W., and Lakes Entrance, Victoria,
please communicate with THE PER-
PETUAL TRUSTEES ESTATE &
AGENCY CO. of New Zealand Ltd.,
P.O. Box 897, Dunedin, New Zealand?
WHY SUFFER FROM
RHEUMATISM °«ARTHRITIS
Compounded from an old Indian Formula, STRATTONS RHEUMATIC
and ARTHRITIS POWDER contains no harmful drugs, will not affect
the heart and has successfully overcome the most difficult and
obstinate cases when all other treatments have failed. Persons in all
walks of life have found freedom from suffering, and hundreds of
grateful letters from satisfied users have been received by out
Consultant whose Treatment Advice is made available to you
FREE OF CHARGE as part of our Personalised Service which ha*
revolutionised the treatment of all types of Rheumatism and Arthritia
throughout the Commonwealth.
Four Weeks Treatment complete with Advice and Instructions and a
SPECIAL CONCESSION VOUCHER if your complaint needs further
treatment . . . costs only £1 POST FREE.
STRATTONS POWDER Ltd.
- 9 Barrack St., Perth, W.A.
save Nasser but his intended
victim.
“This is the worst kind of
blow Nasser could suffer.
Denunciations of him by the
French or. the Israelis merely
make him stronger. Being
denounced by a small Arab
republic is a different matter.”
In much the same vein,
“New York Times” adds that
“Nasser would naturally like
to bring Lebanon into his orbit
by one means or another, but
that he can do so by flying
in the face of the world’s good
opinion is doubtful, to say the
least. Nasser, likewise, would
not care to see the Eisenhower
Doctrine invoked at this stage.
He has been trying to assert,
for the benefit of the West, his
independence of the Com-
munists in spite of his overt,
friendly gesticulation towards
Moscow. The Lebanese case,
accordingly, could put him in
an even worse light.
“For these reasons, whether
the U.N. Council will, or even
can, act, the presentation of
the complaint can serve a good
purpose. The Lebanese cer-
tainly have every right to be
heard and in most of the free
world they will be heard
sympathetically.”
Empire Day
Suggesting that Empire Day
should in future be known as
“Commonwealth Day,” “York-
shire Post” recalls the British
Empire of 54 years ago (when
Imperial celebrations to make
Empire Day were started), as
being “the most powerful
stabilising force the world has
seen since the first century
of the Christian era, when the
pax Romana prevailed.” The
paper further traces the present
circumstances of the modern
world to “the successive pro-
cesses by which the British
Empire has been weakened,”
likening them to “the con-
sequences that followed the
decline of Roman imperial
power.”
This, however, is no argu-
ment “for restoration of now
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune ”
"I ALMOST FORGOT MY TOOTHACHE "
outmoded imperial concepts,”
but simply “a statement of
historic fact to which be-
wildered peoples do not pay
enough attention.” The
removal of immense political
edifices like those of the
Romans and of Britain are
bound to create “vacuums and
dire peril”:
It is too early yet to
“presume that the fate of Rome
hangs over the British peoples.”
If the Commonwealth is a new
and real conception of associ-
ation, it is only at its earliest
stage of development. The
shape it will eventually take
can only be seen roughly at
this time “the all-important
central link of the Throne, the
evolution of a Commonwealth
conference, the probability and
hope of a Commonwealth
Cabinet in years to come.”
Free and independent
nations, bound by their
instinctive loyalty, ideals and
traditions, are potentially
stronger than “the tightlv
organised and immensely
powerful forces represented by
the United States and the
Soviet Union”:
“The mystic emblem of the
Crown” binds all races, creeds
and beliefs of the new self-
governing units of the old
Colonial Empire as they
work-out their future destiny in
a “vast adventure which should
be an inspiration to us all”:
“We should like to see not
an end of Empire Day but its
rebirth as Commonwealth Day.
This would remind all who
belong to the Commonwealth
of their common heritage and
the ideals they share. It would
be a day in which we could take
renewed pride.”
Various Voices
Lord Hallsham : “We [Great
Britain] should be wrong to
act as if a recession was already
here or certain to come, and
still more wrong not to have
some plans ready for it if it
does come, and not to make
it plain that, if we are
threatened with widespread un-
employment as the result of a
world recession, we are abso-
lutely determined to fight it
every way we can, both by our
own economic policy and in
the field of international co-
operation. If a recession came,
it would be more and not less
necessary to remain competi-
tive. Increases of national
income must be related to
increases in production or pro-
ductivity, whether we are in
boom or slump. This is a fact,
not a policy.”
Nehru: “In the last few
years a lot of changes have
taken place in the Communist
world. Sometimes it was called
liberalisation, sometimes demo-
cratisation and sometimes the
theory ‘let a hundred flowers
blossom and a hundred
opinions flourish,’ but what has
happened is the reversal of it,
and all the flowers which were
to blossom have turned out to
be weeds.”
Governor of the Bank of
England, Cameron Cobbold:
“The Bank of England is
a very dutiful wife. We offer
our advice very freely, as a
good wife should, and on
occasion, I think, we’ve been
known to nag if our advice has
not been accepted. But we
recognise that in the last resort
the Government of the day
must have the final word on
economic and monetary
policy.”
Lord Salisbury: “I am
deeply apprehensive. I believe
that the forces of freedom have
got to act with far more resolu-
tion and unity in the social,
economic, and every other field
than we have yet done if we
are not to lose that [cold]
war.”
American elder statesman,
Bernard M. Baruch : “In this
age of nuclear war and missiles,
the price of unpreparedness
may be sudden death. To be
sure, effective defence requires
high taxes. I like taxes no
more than the next man, but
there are worse burdens. It
is infinitely cheaper to preserve
peace than to fight a war.”


I
9s
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O’Connell Sts.,
Sydney.
H. V. La wry,
Manager.
WHY GAMBLE?
with your romance by “Hit or Miss”
method, while we have your ideal part-
ner waiting for you. Hundreds lonely
people of opposite sex to choose from.
Everywhere, all ages, nationalities, occu-
pations, seeking Romance. Write TO-
DAY for FREE brochure No. X 45. State
your age, sex, address, etc. We reply
in plain sealed envolope. Confidential.
No obligation.
MILTON’S, Box 2871, G.P.0., Sydney.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of poem “Billy Woods,”
by E. Sorenson. —6721.
Bound issues of “The Australian
Journal” (published Melbourne)
for any years between and includ-
ing 1865-73.—6722.
Information Sought
Details of the work of portraitist
Reginald Eves ?
Born in London in 1876, he
passed from University College
with the Trevellyan Goodall
Scholarship to the Slade School,
where he studied under Legros,
Frederick Brown and Henry Tonks,
winning the Slade Scholarship. In
1899 his picture “Waiting” was
accepted for the Royal Academy;
he thereafter became a regular
exhibitor at the Royal Academy,
Royal School of Portrait Painters,
the Salon and elsewhere, specialis-
ing in portraiture. His first por-
trait to be acquired by the National
Portrait Gallery was that of Thomas
Hardy, bought in 1931. Other
portraits in the same gallery are
those of Shackleton and Jellicoe;
in the Tate Gallery Eves is repre-
sented by portraits of Sir Frank
Benson and Sir Max Beerbohm.
Among h;s portraits of women are
those of the Queen of Spain and
Miss Julia Neilson. Critics of his
work define it as lacking charm of
color, but having a fine feeling for
character.
* * * *
Details of the sinking of the
Australian hospital-ship Centaur in
World War U?
The Centaur (3000 tons), carrying
medical staff and hospital supplies
and equipment, was steaming
northward up the Queensland coast
on May 14, 1943, when she was
torpedoed by a Japanese submarine.
The attack was made at four-
o’clock in the morning, 40 miles
off the coast. The ship had the
Red Cross fully displayed and was
brilliantly illuminated. Eleven of
12 nurses of the A.A.N.S. aboard
died, the survivor being Miss Ellen
Savage, later awarded the George
Medal; in all, 208 lives were lost.
The sinking was described by
General MacArthur- as a “limitless
act of savagery.” Strong protests
were sent to the Japanese Govern-
ment by the Australian Government
and the International Red Cross.
• * * •
Some details of the proposed
tidal power-station across the
estuary of the River Ranee on the
coast of Brittany ?
A dam-wall will be built across
the estuary, and 38 generating-units,
each of 9000 kw. capacity, will be
installed.
The idea of using tidal-power to
make electrical energy has been
under serious consideration for a
long time. After 14 years of experi-
ment engineers of St. Malo have
dispensed with conventional hydro-
electric generators in favor of a
horizontal turbine. This lies under
the water’s surface so that the
flow runs straight through with less
force but more constancy. The
new installation is called a “bulb”
turbine; there will be 38 turbines
of this type at the Ranee power-
station.
Starting at low tide, this is how
the Ranee set-up will operate:
(1) The head-of-water built-up
inside the dam-wall will run through
the turbines and generate electricity
until the difference of levels inside
and out is insufficient to operate
the turbine properly.
(2) The turbine will then be used
as a pump to empty-out some of
the water behind the dam-wall to
give a slightly greater difference of
level at the beginning of the next
stage.
(3) With the incoming tide at an
adequate level the pumps will
become turbines once more, this
time in reverse, and the tidal water
will flow through them into the
reservoir.
(4) When the head-of-water is too
little for efficient operation, pump-
ing will begin afresh to build-up
an artificially high head-of-water
inside the barrage. Thus the whole
cycle recommences.
The “bulb” turbines, one of
which is being mounted for trial
in a , disused lock in St. Malo
harbor, can be hoisted from their
positions for maintenance, repair or
replacement in a matter of hours.
They are expected to make a signi-
ficant difference to future hydro-
electric schemes, whether of the
tidal- or simple river-type.
* * * *
What is the origin of the word
“porphyry” ?
It was originally applied to an
Egyptian rock used for ornamental
purposes and known as porfido
rosso antico. It occurs as a dyke
in the granite of Jebel Dokhan in
Egypt, and shows a felspathic base
with plates of hornblende,, mag-
netite and disseminated oligoclase
“Well, what have YOU got to say for yourself?”
felspar. Because of the presence
of a variety of epidote called
“withamite” or “piedmontite” the
porphyritic felspar displays a red
tint; the term “porphyry” is now
applied by geologists to certain
acid and sub-acid rocks showing
porphyritic structure, although not
necessarily of a red color.
There is a green variety, found
only at Lambay Island, off Dublin,
and in the Peloponnesus. This
color stems from the occurrence of
some constituent of the rock in two
distinct generations: the first-
formed crystals are large, and the
ground-mass, crystallising later, is
aphantic. When used as a descrip-
tive prefix in specifying porphyries,
geologists say “syenite porphyry,”
“quartz porphyry,” “rhomb por-
phyry,” and so on. Some
porphyries are given distinct names;
hence Bostonites, Tinguates and
some varieties of Monzonites.
* * * *
(1) Some information on the
quart and “reputed quart” ? (2)
Does a gallon of fly-spray contain
as many ounces as a gallon of, say,
lemonade ?
(1) The “reputed quart” is a
bottle containing 26.66 fl. oz., or
one-sixth of a gallon, which con-
tains 160 fl. oz. Introduced towards
the end of the 18th century in
England, the measure is used in
connection with the sale of wines
or spirits. It was sanctioned by
the British Board of Trade, possibly
as a counter to the difficulty of
bottling to the strict tolerances
required. There is a difference of
13.33 fl. oz. between a quart and
a “reputed quart.” The United
Nations Book of World Weights
and Measures records that in the
Mauritius and Seychelles Islands
there is a measure called the
reputed quart-bottle, consisting of
.666 of a quart or approximately
26.66 fl. oz. As these are both wine-
producing countries, it would appear
that the whole matter is somehow
joined-up with the bottling of
wine. (2) An imperial gallon
measures 160 fl. oz., irrespective of
type of content.
* * * *
Who were the leading six bats-
men and six bowlers in averages for
all games on the recent Australian
cricket-tour of South Africa?
Batsmen—Burke, 1028 runs,
highest score 189, average 68.5;
Mackay, 737, 113, 61.4; Davidson,
807, 129, 57.6; Benaud, 817, 187,
54.4; Harvey, 759, 173, 50.6;
Simpson, 653, 150 not-out, 50.2.
Bowlers —Davidson, 423.5 overs,
71 wickets for 1069, average 15.0;
Benaud, 743.6, 106-2057, 19.4;
Kline, 396.7, 49-1064, 21.7;
Drennan, 193, 26-570, 21.9;
Burke, 174, 19-420, 22.1; Meckiif,
309.4, 33-762, 23.0.
* * * *
(1) Why are so many of the hills
around Cooma (N.S.W.) treeless?
(2) What are the dimensions of
Lake George, A.C.T.?
(1) Several theories have been
advanced to account for the failure
of tree-life in both the Monaro and
Canberra-Goulburn districts. In
most of these areas the soil is
basaltic, and tree-life is found to
be limited to the more siliceous
types. Basaltic types are often
heavy, impervious and badly
aerated; hence, unfavorable to tree-
growth. Basaltic soils in the coastal
division support a heavy growth of
brush species, but because of com-
bined cold and low rainfall such


Missing Heirs
BICHARD HARRIS, son of HENRY
HARRIS and SARAH HARRIS (born
HUGHES), was born in Ireland and
died at Newcastle, New South Wales,
on 3rd November, 1887, a widower and
without issue. Intestacy has arisen as
to part of income of his estate. The
Supreme Court of New South Wales in
Equity has ordered that the Master
in Equity do hold an inquiry as to
what persons were the statutory next-of-
kin of said Richard Harris living at the
date of his death and thus entitled to
share in the income of his estate passing
as on intestacy, and whether any of
them have since died, and, if so. who
are their legal personal representatives.
By order of the Court all persons claim-
ing to be entitled under the said inquiry
must send bv post pre-paid to PER-
PETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY, Hunter
St., Sydney, N.S.W., so as to reach the
Company on or before 30th August,
1958, their full names, addresses and
descriptions and full particulars of their
claims; otherwise they will be excluded
from the benefit of the said order from
inquiry, unless otherwise ordered.
Claimants must attend in person or by
Solicitor before Master in Equity at
Supreme Court, Sydney, N.S.W., on
23rd September, 1958, when claims will
be. heard. A Claimant from outside New
South Wales must send with said par-
ticulars the name and address of a
person in N.S.W. to whom notices for
the claimant can be sent. Dated 22nd
Ap’-il, 1958. PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COY. (LTD.), Sydney, N.S.W.
ARTS
Circular Chart* for all, type*
of Recording Instrument*
♦or any class of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
ACCURACY GUARANTEED
JAC'tiW&'O a SULLIVANfM*.
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
Federal Jurisdiction.
TO JOAN DOREEN LANGHORN late
of Glynde Street Firle Adelaide South
Australia.—TAKE NOTICE that ROY
ALFRED LANGHORN has filed a Peti-
tion for/ Divorce No. 1532 of 1958 on
the law of South Australia on the
ground of desertion for three years and
is asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under Section 12 (1) (a) of
the Matrimonial Causes Act 1929—-41
of South Australia If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 20th
day of August 1958 and obtain a eopy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. JOSEPH H. McDOUGALL &
CO., Solicitors, of 4 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO JOHN SIDNEY GILMOUR late of
30 Balmoral Street Blaektown.—TAKE
NOTICE that DAPHNE JOAN GIL-
MOUR has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3332 of 1958 on the ground of
habitual drunkenness and habitually left
without means of support during three
years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the Bth day of
August 1958 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
E. R. TRACEY & CO., Solicitors, of
Temple Court, 81 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend
WOULD anyone claiming to be a
descendant of JAMES and JANE
RICHARDS, who are believed to have
resided in the Hateley Heath District of
Staffordshire, England, about 1840-1860,
and members of whose family are
believed to have emigrated to Australia
and New Zealand, please communicate
with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE, Greymouth, New Zealand?
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
-The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; £ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage' and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
species cannot establish themselves
under Tablelands conditions.
Some of the treeless areas on the
Tablelands have emerged only fairly
recently from a waterlogged con-
dition; it has been suggested that
the majority of treeless areas are
sites of old lakes or marshes on to
which trees have not had time to
spread naturally. Although these
treeless districts may make tree-
planting work tricky, other dis-
tricts, notably in the vicinity of
Canberra, have been able to sup-
port good tree-growth. Tree-
planting work with a number of
species has met with encouraging
success, and it can be assumed
that a naturally treeless condition
does not necessarily mean the area
is unsuitable for tree-life.
(2) Lake George, A.C.T., is
approximately 38,500 acres.
Greatest length, 15 miles, 60ch.;
greatest width, 6 miles 6ch. Mostly
shallow, Lake George occupies an
area with a geological fault:
although at times full of water, the
water recedes and the lake-bed is
generally dry. Large sections of
the lake are held under special
lease-tenure from the Crown.
* * * *
What nationality was W. C.
Piguenit, who painted “Kosiusko”
in the N. S. Wales National Art
Gallery ?
William Charles Piguenit was
born in Hobart in 1836. His parents
were born in Kent. his. father,
Frederick Le Geyt Piguenit, being
of French descent. “A Catalogue
of Australian Oil Paintings in the
National Art Gallery of N. S.
Wales,” prepared by Bernard Smith,
gives the following details of
Piguenit the artist:
“He joined the Tasmanian Sur-
vey Department in 1849, continuing
his service until 1872, when he
resigned to devote himself to paint-
ing, haying previously painted in his
spare time. In the early ’seventies
he was a contributor to the N.S.W.
Academy of Arts. Mr. Du Faur,
then President of the National
Art Gallery of N.S.W., persuaded
him to come to this State (N.S.W.)
and join an artists’ camp which
had been formed in the Grose
Valley, near Flartley Vale. An
exhibition of his work was held
at the Academy of Arts, Sydney,
in 1875. Fie then settled in
Sydney. Piguenit’s paintings of the
western highlands of Tasmania
were purchased by the Tasmanian
Government. He visited England
in 1898, and again in 1900 j making
sketches of Welsh and English
scenery, and exhibiting in the
exhibition of Australian art held
in London in 1898, at the Grafton
Galleries, and in the Paris Salon.
Piguenit helped to found the Royal
Art Society, of which he was vice-
president for some years. He was
awarded the Wynne Prize for 1901
for his painting ‘Thunderstorm on
the Darling.’ He died at Hunter's
Hill on September 17, 1914.”
Brief Answers
W.J. : Best not to take independent
action.’ Your case requires expert
planning and advice. Consult a
solicitor... .M.G.-: Sorry, no
details P.R.: Australian defence-
planning and preparations are
designed to ensure the security of
all Australian territory, including
our territory in New Guinea.
Peace forces maintained in Aus-
tralia’s New Guinea territory are
considered adequate. The Govern-
ment’s defence-policy provides for
Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims which state the
section in which paragraphs
appear and the date of
appearance will be paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
the building-up of mobile, well-
equipped forces. Should the need
arise, as in a time of emergency, the
forces in New Guinea could be
expanded rapidly K.N.: Sorry,
no details. Suggest you try Angus
and Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney T.8.G.: That’s
right; Heathrow, in Middlesex,
England, is an airport near Harling-
ton, 14 miles west of London. It
was opened to international traffic
as London Airport in 1946....
S.D.: The paragraph appeared in
B. 16/4/’58... .1.M.K.: To make
chilli beverage assemble 2gals.
water, 20 medium-sized chillies, 31b.
sugar, 2oz. cream-of-tartar, juice
of two or three lemons, 2 table-
spoons yeast. Boil chillies in three
quarts of the water for 20 minutes,
add sugar and cream-of-tartar;
strain, add the rest of the water,
strained lemon juice and the yeast.
Bottle, cork, and tie-down imme-
diately. Keep for a week or longer
to suit taste... .N.T.L.: British
torpedo-boats made a daring foray
into St. Helier, principal port of
the Channel Island port of Jersey,
early on the morning of August
10, 1944. They attacked two Ger-
man mine-sweepers with gunfire.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
J.A.R.: Make a study of clarity.
....Tunic: They’d all go on strike
again if they saw that one
J.O'D.: We note with terror that
you have written a national anthem
for Australia which is “a rousing,
challenging, bold piece of poetry.”
. ...P.D.: Bless you for your
blessing on Australian soidiers....
J.N.W.: You are better on love
than on jackpot totes... .D.T.:
We shall have to decline first serial-
rights in your sonnet 8.D.T.:
It's real but rough... .E.R.M.:
About all you could do with those
chickens is cook them....Nor-
lander: Well, we had a shot at
“Australia's Early Birds”....
A.O'C.: Put it to sleep....
A.P.Z.: Language too faded
Tanda: Very wise of you, too:
Oil Sunday I went to the Football
An intertown match they, were playing
/ that day
Some of the women seemed to be bar-
racking with Umbrellas
I kept well out of their way.
D.M.: Try it on the girl....
A.T.: A bit flimsy... .Anon
(Coolangatta): You forgot to sign
both the poem, and the covering
letter... .8.C.: A fair poem by any
standards and an excellent one for
a gumtree D.8.H.: Some bright
spots in old Charlie... .D.F.M.:
We shuddered when you rhymed
“sappiness” and “happiness,” and
when you got to “beauty” and
“fluty” we felt we’d done our duty.
... .T.K.: Let’s see something more
compact... .T.K.: Barcroft Boake
and “Banjo” Paterson did that one.
. ...A.E.D.: Nice enough, but
slight... .P.G.H.: That breeze
blows from Shelley’s “Ode to the
West Wind”... .J.M.: It might
make a song, but as poetry it has
nothing new to say... .M.N.: What
was it? A dream? H.S.:
“Looking Forward” is, alas,
springing backward J.T.: Read
Angus and Robertson’s “Australian
Poetry.” series. You’ve a lot of
tricks to learn besides alliteration.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Equal Pay
Obviously, raising the pay of
a large body of workers must,
when it is not accompanied by
increased production, raise
costs; and costs must be
passed on to consumers.
Some think that with equal
pay for women costs generally
would not be much higher,
because only women doing the
same work as men (mostly
office-workers and teachers)
would be affected. That is not
so.
To apply the principle con-
sistently, women doing any
unskilled work would have to
be paid the male basic-wage ;
and any special skill would
demand a “margin.” The total
cost would be terrific, and
females in some occupations
might find they had priced
themselves out of a job.
Apart from that, if overall
unemployment figures began to
rise, things might be grim for
women. As an employer, if 1
had to shorten staff, I would
retain those who supported
families. The first to be put off
would be those of least im-
mediate or potential value to
the business —mostly girls.
Engaging new staff, if I had
one job to offer and a boy and
girl applied for it, I would, all
else being equal, employ the
boy: he’d be more likely to
stay with the firm, and as a
potential family - head he
should be given the chance of
steady work and the oppor-
tunity to qualify for promotion.
—Carl Helmar (Qld.).
Indirect Censorship
When the Obscene Publica-
tions Act was being steam-
rollered through the N. S.
Wales Parliament and the
rulers of a couple of other
sovereign States were either
contemplating, or had just
committed, similar acts of
decency, The Bulletin
pointed out that the effects of
such restrictive legislation,
which virtually made Austra-
lian publishers and distributors
censors, could 'be far-reaching.
They reached, me the other
day in Sydney, sitting in the
office of a publisher, the MS.
of a book I had been com-
missioned to write on the table
before me. I had already been
paid an advance-on-an-advance
on royalties, on the strength of
two chapters and a synopsis,
the completed MS. had been
read, and I was sweating on the
cheque for the balance.
The man on the other side
of the table remarked that
there was a distinct possibility
the distributors would refuse
to handle my opus. Consterna-
tion on my side of the table:
if the distributors wouldn’t
handle it the publishers
wouldn’t publish it, and I
wondered wildly how my
innocent melodrama could
possibly offend the distribut-
“Here’s mud in your eye!”
ing - house. Was it blas-
phemous, seditious, grossly
immoral? I couldn’t persuade
myself it was any of these
things. Undistinguished, has-
tily written for bread-and-
butter, perhaps. But objec-
tions were not being raised
on that score.
I was reminded that my
story contained a crooked cop.
So what? I asked. Well, the
distributors don’t care much
for fictional crooked cops—
not since the Police Depart-
ment in Melbourne intimated
that it didn’t care for them.
I was freelancing, had put
aside other work to finish the
book. I needed that cheque.
I hastily considered purging
the crooked cop, but realised
it would mean rewriting the
.whole yarn. I pointed out that
he was a sympathetic charac-
ter, and that to balance his
slide into dishonesty there
were two other policemen of
sterling virtue. It cut no ice.
Now I’m wondering where
this tendency will end. If
wicked cops are taboo, how
long will it be before high-
minded distributors refuse to
handle books dealing with
wicked politicians, wicked
moneylenders, wicked ... in
fact, with anyone wicked at
all? Rasoomish (N.S.W.).
Communism in China
It used to be common for
wishful-thinkers of the West to
argue that Communism would
not last long in China. This
line has rather died in the face
of events, but the gleam of
hope seen by Macansh (B.
23/4/’5B) seems to revive it.
What he says is not that Com-
munist rule will be rejected,
but that it will be modified to
a form acceptable to the West.
Much of his argument is
based on a dismissal of Com-
munism as a phase in the
development of politically
backward countries. This is
not so. Many countries, par-
ticularly in Asia, have pro-
gressed from backwardness to
a position of political
modernity without an inter-
mediate Communist stage.
Except in. the Indian State of
Kerala, Communism has never
gained power without the use
of armed force. It could thus
happen in the most advanced
country, requiring as its mid-
wife no more than a temporary
phase of political or economic
chaos.
But Macansh’s main argu-
ment is that Communism is
not static; it develops along
original and undetermined
lines, and that in China the
racial personality will lead this
development' towards some-
thing tolerable to neighboring
democratic States. As far as
this is an assessment of
Chinese racial personality it
may be right, but the evidence
is that dictatorship can, and
intends to, modify this per-
sonality.
When Mao made his
famous “rectification” speech
early in 1957 (“Let the hun-
dred flowers bloom, let the
hundred schools of thought
contend”) there was in China
an immediate upsurge of
Rightist thought (and in the
West an immediate revival of
hope). Slowly and suspiciously
at first, but with increasing
freedom, intellectuals came
forward with criticisms of the
regime and of the party, and
eventually of Communist
theory itself. The
“Kwangming Daily,” the
newspaper of the non-
Communist parties,
developed an opposition
line ; others followed suit,
and it looked as though
liberalism was on the
march.
About five months
after Mao’s speech was
made it was published
with additions, modifica-
tions and omissions which
indicated that freedom of
discussion had gone far
enough. Thought-trials
recommenced, and people
like the editor of the
“Kwangming Daily” dis-
appeared.
Totalitarian rule now
seems to be more firmly
in the saddle than ever;
the temporary relaxa-
tion achieved its aim of
bringing the opposition into
the open so that it would be
easier to eliminate. Any hopes
for an early, satisfactory
change of the Chinese brand of
Communism are still wishful-
thinking.—C. E. W. (Vic.).
L.-G. Amalgamations and
Communism
I quite agree with everything
The Bulletin said in “Delocal-
ised Government and the Ren-
shaw Plan.” Cahill, Rerisha w and
co. have pursued a methodical
plan to render local-govern-
ment as we used to know it
quite impossible. What is not
so generally known is that the
amalgamations forced on areas
all over N, S. Wales are actu-
ally bringing many of them
into lihe with the boundaries of
the districts into which the Com-
munist party divided the State.
I live in Shoalhaven. As
constituted by Joe Cahill in


helps the businessman
is
m
■y- '
x
■ !
000
*T HE facilities and services of this bank can help
the businessman to solve his problems in a practi-
cal way.
Should he travel in this
country or abroad, the bank
can help with itineraries and
bookings, trade introduc-
tions and many other aids
to businessmen.
The friendly advice of
experienced officers in all
departments is available to
C.B.C. customers.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
SAVINGS
BANK
LIMITED
DEPOSITS GUARANTEED
BY THE PARENT COMPANY
n
Modern procedure makes
the operation of a savings
account with the C.B.C. Sav-
ings Bank a simple matter for
any member of a family.
1948, this area is exactly coter-
minous with that of the 7th
District of the Communist
plan. This may, of course, be
quite accidental. But it is a
fact, nevertheless, as documents
in the possession of the Com-
monwealth Government as a
result of the Marx House raid
will clearly show.
I am glad to know that the
Central West is not taking the
matter lying down. Neither
are the farmers of Shoalhaven.
Under the leadership of T. L:
Cochrane and D. C. Tilghman
they have already secured a
decree from the Supreme
Court calling on the adminis-
trator and clerk to hold an
election. (None has been held
since 1953.) The fact that they
have briefed Sir Garfield Bar-
wick is evidence that they are
in earnest. The administrator
and clerk hiving decided to
defend the matter, it is hoped
it will come before the Full
Bench of the Supreme Court
before long. Sandpatch
(N.S.W.).
Keeping a Pub
What qualifies an individual
to run a hotel? In Victoria, at
any rate, an answer is difficult
to find. Published reports of
the granting of hotel-licences
indicate that anyone who has
not been in trouble with the
police and who has sufficient
capital can, without much diffi-
culty, obtain a licence to keep
a hotel, bven though his know-
ledge of hotel-management is
negligible.
A professional sportsman
who applied for the transfer
of a licence recently was
reported to have told the
Licensing Court that he had
“spent half of his sporting
career in and out of hotels”
and had gained experience
working in a friend’s hotel. He
got his licence, and will no
doubt maintain in his new occu-
pation the high and un-
blemished reputation he earned
in the realm of professional
sport. Many other Victorians
who have achieved notability in
the sporting world have like-
wise turned to hotel-keeping as
a career, and have acquitted
themselves creditably.
But the art of hotel-
management is by no means
highly developed. The Licens-
ing Court is frequently critical
of the conduct of hotels;
criticism by the public (includ-
ing overseas visitors) of the
standards of accommodation
and facilities has been wide-
spread.
It may be timely to ask why


hotel-keeping, like other occu-
pations involving statutory
responsibilities to the com-
munity, should not be put on
a similar level in regard to
the possession of specific
aptitudes, qualifications and
experience. A Victorian brew-
ing company last year con-
ducted a two-day “school” for
hotel-licensees in which instruc-
tion was given on a number of
aspects of hotel-management
and -operation.
This idea might well be
extended with benefit to the
trade as a whole. Whether
some form of instruction could
be given to intending licensees
—possibly as a technical-college
course—deserves investigation.
The ideal would be a diploma
in hotel - managment, the
possession of which could be
a- requisite for applicants for
licences. In time this could
raise the general standards of
our hotels and upgrade an
occupation which has suffered
through the too-easy entry of
the unsuitable and the incom-
petent. — Ardoyne (Vic.).
Misguided Applause
For sheer stupidity of the
kind that makes a rod to
be used on its own back you
can’t beat Sydney concert
audiences.
A conductor will present a
work that turns-out to be an
unmusical horror of the first
magnitude. There are a dozen
ways in which an experienced
concertgoer can sense the
reaction to the work during
performance—the shufflings,
gazing around distractedly,
etc. —of those near him. Very
obviously they are all horribly
bored with the thing. Yet
when the mass of shrieking
dissonances mercifully comes
to an end they will clap like
mad.
This may, of course, be
merely an expression of their
innate politeness ; an apprecia-
tion of the toil —however use-
less—put in by the members
of the orchestra. Yet it can
be totally misleading. The
conductor leaps to the con-
clusion that the work is to
the liking of the audience.
And they’ve only themselves to
blame when he trots-out, at
his next appearance, a piece
by the same composer, or one
equally misguided, which is
even worse than the one
before.
There is no need to emulate
the methods adopted by super-
heated Latins of expressing
disapproval by shouts of
“Basta! ” or hissing, or, trying
savagely to bite bits out of
the baton-wielder. All the
audience has to do is main-
tain a frigid silence. That
would be enough for any con-
ductor. — Zake (N.S.W.).
Children and’ Literary
Criticism
M. F. Dixon on exam.-tests
in education (B. 21/5/’5B) took
me back 30 years to when I
was studying for the Senior
(the Queensland equivalent of
the Leaving).
We all firmly believed that
when asked to criticise a
passage of English we would
earn more marks by finding
fault than by praising it. There
was a refinement for the really
bright ones ; if several passages
were set for criticism it was a
good idea to give somewhat
restrained approval to one,
apparently to show that we
could distinguish between
good and bad. But the average
pupil played safe, and found
no good in anything. If you
couldn’t find any specific faults,
you could take refuge in
generalities. I don't know that
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 491
Across
I—Collectors of old cloth in the middle part. (8)
.5 —Jagged furniture for the convenience of any toper who
passes out at the drink counter? (6)
9 Standards for measuring the horseshoe louse’s eggs. (5)
10— Residential tariffs for a kangaroo Mr. Article set
back. (4-5)
12—Where to drive off and object because of an infantile
difficulty. (8)
13 —Portent set back nobody. (4)
15— Brother to one of the Carolinas
comes into money. (5)
16— A Jewish general digests no
hams. (6)
18 — What a literary iceman does with
a heavenly body at first. (6)
19 — Wined with Drood. ' (5)
21— One of the vessels were
wrecked. (4)
22 The least willowy fruit blight. (8)
24 Walrus close-up to ldriess. (3-4)
25 An ill picture of a shoe for a
horse ear backing half an abo-
riginal dwelling. (7)
27 Turn around nonsense and
swallowed. (6)
28 — Her rest is disturbed by pro-
ductive shots into the deep. (7)
Down
1 — They make the quarter boys of
one class. (6, 7)
2 Little airs giving a sitter a
change. (8)
3 Excellent courses available from
this great navigator in child-
hood. (6, 4)
4 Negative alternative who uses
the thumb to come ashore in
part of England. (14)
6 A capital for Chaldeans with a
halo. (4)
7 He’s interested in cleanliness, but
the breath is bad. (6)
8— Blue outcome of eating poultry
without pluck? (4, 2,3, 5)
11 —A meteoric career can always
be predicted for this actor in
a gangster film? (8, 4)
14 —Swear some donkey always
fed. (10)
17 —He knows how long it takes to
run a couple who will run with
both hares and hounds. (3-5)
20 —Concerning yore meal. (6)'
23 —Lean catalogue desire. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 490


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WAXES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET. SIDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines).
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
our teachers ever openly
advocated this system, but the
general tenor of their instruc-
tion approved it. How well Mr.
Dixon’s report fits into this
method!
The real trouble, I would say,
is that the examiners are ask-
ing the impossible. The ability
to pass reasoned judgment
comes only with time, study and
an experience of life that an
adolescent just doesn’t possess.
\ It is certainly desirable to
introduce young people to the
finest literature, but if we ask
too much of them, in under-
standing or appreciation, their
only resort is to fall back on
a slick exam.-passing trick that
that has stood the test of time.
And if their teachers covertly
encourage this way of escape,
who can blame them? Their
job depends on getting results.
—Heresome (Qld.).
Religious Poetry
I am gathering material for
an anthology of Australian
religious poetry. No, it won’t
have that title.
The aim of the volume will
be to fill a real gap in our
literature. Nothing very much
has been published of a
religious nature, and there is
a ready market. It is hoped
that most of the poetry in-
cluded will not only be Aus-
tralian in authorship but will
reflect Australian life with
God deep in the heart, even
if at times He is struggling
with that heart.
Writers who would like to
submit poems are requested to
forward them to me at 24
Cumberland Street, Cessnock,
N.S.W. (Rev.) Armand
Whitehead (N.S.W.).
TV and Drive-ins
“Acolyte” (B. 14/5/’5B), in
his tirade against TV and
drive-in theatres, overlooks
the fact that they are a boon
to the physically handicapped.
My own son, a polio victim,
is a case in point. He and
hundreds of others similarly
afflicted are enabled to view
films in the comfort of cars
and without the necessity of
battling their way through
crowds. Similarly, for the
crippled, the infirm and the
aged TV has become a great
compensation for the loss of
other forms of entertainment.
—Mrs. M.E. (Q.).
Soap Bubbles
When Unilever issued its
1957 annual accounts in Britain
a few weeks back the advertis-
“I’m so hungry I could ea t a man!”
ing item of £B3 million (stg.)
made shareholders sit up and
blink.
There was talk, by gad, of
dog-whips and riding-crops
when it was observed that the
expenditure on advertising
equalled the consolidated
trading profit.
Lord Heyworth, the com-
pany’s chairman, anticipating
some hostility at the annual
meeting, opened-up with a
thesis on “It pays to advertise.”
The statistics showed the
company had 1800-million
consumers—no doubt calcu-
lated from single-package sales
—requiring whiter whites and
filrh-star complexions.
Their demands were met by
200 companies operating in 100
countries.
, The remainder of the report
supported M’Lord’s contention
that if £B3 million had not been
spent on advertising £B3 nail-
lion would not have been
available to spend on adver-
tising.
In the world’s toughest com-
petitive field the logic, like the
balance-sheet, was sound.
It does pay to advertise.—
Old Opencut (S.A.).
Our Native Flowers
Why is no attempt being
made to preserve our native
flora? I mentioned the matter
to the Curator of Sydney
Botanic Gardens and he said
it was not the work of the
Gardens to make any special
effort in that direction.
Thousands of Australians
know nothing of the chaste and
dainty flannel - flower, the
fragrant boronias, the gay
native roses, the stately Christ-
mas-bells, or even the majestic
waratah, to say nothing of the
native fuchsias and bush
orchids.
Fifty or sixty years ago a
ferry-traveller to Manly was
greeted with great baskets of
blooms gathered in nearby
French’s Forest. The Forest
up till then was a fairyland of
brilliant color.
Flower-sellers in Martin
Place, Sydney, also traded in
thousands of blooms. But the
wildflower-seller, unlike the
nurseryman, sowed not. The
ruthless pulling of blooms to
turn into money ravaged our
great forest gardens. The
plants did not get a chance to
seed and thereby reproduce
themselves. Government regu-
lations were gazetted, societies
for wildflower protection were
formed, but the regulations
were hard to police and the
vandals had almost a free hand
and continued to cash-in. Then
came the motor-car carrying
the woman who couldn’t see a
flower blooming without pick-
ing it—and destroying it.
That great area Centennial
Park, which comes under the
control of Sydney Botanic
Gardens authorities, should
have a section set aside suffi-
ciently large to make a serious
effort to save our bush beauties
before they are extinct. The
Taronga Park Zoo manage-
ment has done a fine job with
our fauna. Why not give it
a-few hundred acres adjoining
the zoo for wildflower culture?
There are several private
sanctuaries near Sydney,
supported by good Australians,
but we must have something
permanent. —R. O. (N.S.W.).


ROYAL JELLY
Direct from the bees. One month’s
supply in capsules £5/57- airmail
post free; free leaflet.
REX PEACOCK,
Apiarist, 21 Carbine Street.
KERANG, VICTORIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
WHY NO FLOOR-PRICE?
[From P. R. Rogers]
Asa woolgrower I was par-
ticularly interested in the
article by Mr. Clive Hall on
“Wool Futures” (Wool Issue, B.
28/ 5/’sB} showing how a wool-
grower can insure the price of
his clip by selling “futures”
contracts on the London
market when prices for wool
are high and be is afraid of
the market falling before his
wool is sold at auction.
There is another aspect of
the wool-futures market, how-
ever, that I would like to deal
with, after saying that I do
not believe 5 p.c. of Australian
woolgrowers took advantage of
the wool-futures market to
insure the price of their clips
when prices were high; and
not 10 p.c. of woolgrowers
know anything about the
futures markets operating in
London, Antwerp, Roubaix
and New York.
The other aspect of the
futures market which I think
has had a major effect on the
40 p.c. drop in prices since
The mulesihg of
lambs should be
carried out when they
are weaned. The
operation is per-
formed only once in
the lifetime of a
sheep and when it is
allied with correct
tail length and an
annual crutching will s
give almost complete
protection from fly
strike. An added
protective measure is
to use Elastrator
Rubber Rings when
the lamb is marked
and tailed. This is a
bloodless system
avoiding open
wounds, the chief
attraction for flies.
last August is that under the
present system of selling at
auction with no floor-price, or
some scheme of organised
reserve-valuing, the way is
wide open for the cartel (wool-
ring, gentleman’s - agreement,
“Well, what do you know — I'm a granny !”
call it what you may) which, in
my opinion, is operating at
auctions, to continually depress
the wool-market by constantly
offering wool for forward de-
livery below spot market-
values, thus causing complete
loss of confidence in ruling
auction prices and forcing
wool values, artificially, much
lower- than justified.
An extra 12d. a lb. on wool
(greasy) above today’s price
would have little effect on the
price of the finished woollen
article to the consumer, but it
would mean a lot to the wool-
grower under present costs.
Had a floor-price scheme
been in operation “bear”
operators would not have sold
“futures” below the reserve-
price or they would have gone
broke. As conditions exist
today it appears that most
woolgrowers (those depending
solely on wool for their income)
will go broke without a reserve-
price, because wool is being
sold below cost of production
as established by the Bureau
of Agricultural Economics.
Questions have been asked in
Parliament about the “wool
ring” and the “wool monopoly”
and the “wool cartel” operat-
ing at wool auctions.
Mr. McMahon in a recent
statement said that “he had
comprehensive inquiries made
by the Department of Primary
Industry and he was informed
there is no evidence to support
the conclusion that a buyer’s
cartel is operating in this
country.”
How naive ! The only people
who could give evidence were
the members of the cartel.
These men are hard, shrewd,
experienced and very capable
businessmen.
When Australian wool-
growers turned-down the Post-
J.O. Plan with a floor-price
they left the way wide open
for these men to get their heads
together. When Australian
woolgrowers voted “No” to
the Post-J.CLPIan with a floor-
price New Zealand and South
Africa were Jet down badly —
they both decided to go it
alone, but with Australia out
they cannot hope to succeed.
New Zealand has recently
bought-in large amounts
of wool that did not reach
the reserve price, but it
did not stop the fall in price,
because the cartel could get all
the wool in Australia it wanted
at its own price.
The Australian woolgrowers’
organisations decided on selling
their wool at “open auction free
to the world’s competition”
with no floor-price.
This season they, have, in my
opinion, been getting the
world’s competition under a
cartel of buyers whose opera-
tions are mainly the cause of
wool falling from £lOO a bale
to £6O a bale. Yet, in face of
what has happened, Mr. W.
Weatherly, chairman of the
Australian Woolgrowers’ Coun-
cil, is reported in the press to
have said that “because of a
number of proposals aimed at
artificially raising the price of
wool, his council considered it
desirable to reaffirm its ‘tradi-
tional’ support of the free-
auction system.”
Mr. Weatherly, as reported,
in the press, then went on to
say that “lower wool prices
could only be caused by a
combination of reduced textile-
manufacturing activity caused
by uncertain economic condi-
tions in the principal wool-
consuming countries, and in-
creased competition from sub-
stitutes, and to attempt to sup-
port a floor-price higher than
the ‘free-market’ price in the
face of these circumstances
could only lead to a cessation
of buying, accumulation of
unsold wool and an increase
in the use of man-made fibres.”
The most amazing thing Mr.
Weatherly went on to say was:
“To attempt to link the selling-
price of wool to its cost of
production would be disastrous
for woolgrowers and the Aus-
tralian economy, since there can
never be any relationship be-
tween such a price and that
which overseas customers are
willing or can afford to pay
for our wool, and such a move
would inevitably involve the
Government in having to sub-
sidise the cost of wool-produc-
tion.”
At a meeting of the Council
of the Graziers’ Association of
Victoria held about a week
after Mr. Weatherly’s state-
ment appeared in the press it
was reported that “they backed
the auction system 'for wool”
(apparently with no floor-
price). There was no reported
word of criticism of Mr.
Weatherly’s renjarks. So the
Graziers’ Association would
appear to have agreed with the
views of the Australian Wool-
growers’ Council as expressed
by Mr. Weatherly.
In my opinion a floor-price
would not act as Mr. Weatherly
suggests, but it would prevent
the “cartel” artificially reduc-
ing the price of wool much
below its true value by “bear”
operations in the wool-futures
market.
I should say that over 90
p.c. of woolgrowers want their
wool to be sold at auction, but
not without a floor-price cover-
ing cost of production with a
fair margin of profit.
Referring to Mr. Weatherly’s
fear of accumulated unsold


DEVELOP YOUR
PROPERTY
ECONOMICALLY. . .
~ WITH
HUMES
REINFORCED CONCRETE
TROUGHING
So easy to erect, Humes centrifugally spun
reinforced concrete Troughing is an essential
piece of permanent equipment. No maintenance
required—fire resistant—cannot rust —these are
but some of the advantages of Humes Concrete
Troughing.
In lengths of 8 feet at competitive pricesl
HUMES LIMITE
43 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY. 8X4185
FACTORIES IN:
Adamstown, Grafton, Harden, Lismore, Moree,
Queanbeyan, Rydalmere, Tamworth. H/60
wool if there were a floor-price,
I would remind him that the
B.A.W.R.A. scheme for the
disposal of accumulated wool
after the 1914-18 war was
completely successful; many
woolgrowers wanted to con-
tinue the scheme, but it was
decided to return to “grower
control,” which, being purely
imaginary (as it is today), did
not function.
There was chaos until the
brokers stopped the sales, and
the wool-industry went through
a very bad time.
Again, I would remind Mr.
Weatherly of the splendid job
done by J.O. in co-operation
with woolbrokers after the last
war in marketing an accumu-
lation of 10,000,000 bales,
which was accomplished by
1949.
Many of the leading wool-
growers said it would take 14
years to sell it. This 10,000,000
bales was fed to the market
along with current clips as the
market could absorb it, with-
out any confusion, and a profit
was made of £2OO million (stg.).
Both B.A.W.R.A. and J.O.
schemes were managed and
controlled by able businessmen
\Hio believed in relating selling-
price to cost of production,
and it is men of this type who
must in the future manage and
control any floor-price plan
(on similar lines to the Post-
J.O. Plan turned-down). No
salary is too high to pay such
men when an industry worth
over £4OO million a year (and
the basis of Australian
economy) is at stake.
Eventually a floor-price plan
at auction is inevitable, not-
withstanding the objection by
the Australian Woolgrowers’
Council and the Graziers’
Associations. Many of the
older executives of wool-
growers’ organisations are still
living in a past age and do not
realise that, by modern
standards and practices in buy-
ing and selling, woolgrowers
are left absolutely bare of
deterrent defence against the
onslaught of the combined
wool buyers of the world and
Big Business.
If the woolgrowers of Aus-
tralia do not soon formulate
a plan of their own it is quite
possible that a plan with a
floor-price related to the cost
of production may' be forced
on them by the Common-
wealth Government.
No Government can see a
fall of £l5O million in Aus-
tralian primary income and
remain complacent about it, or
see the woolgrowers go broke
because of the operations of
an overseas cartel combined
with the apparent determina-
tion of woolgrower executives
to continue “the free auction”
system and “grower control,”
which at present means no
control whatever.
Dosing Horses
“Bosambo”: Faced with the
problem of administering
phenothiazine to my horses
without the aid of a gag-bit, I
tried spreading the dose on
thick slices of bread moistened
with water and given with the
phenothiazine uppermost to
avoid the animal tasting the
medicine before the bread.
Since then I have successfully
used this method on all
breeds from Clydesdales and
thoroughbreds to pony types.
Not only does it administer the
drug as effectively as the con-
ventional capsule, but it im-
proves one’s relationship with
the animals, which is more than
can be said for the gag-bit.
Lambing Paddocks
“Centaur”: In advocating
flat country as better than hilly
for lamb-survival, “Ceg” (B.
4/6/’5B) overemphasises the
importance of eagles in relation
to good-management practices.
Weak, underweight, cold or
lost lambs have a poor chance
of survival (as well as being
easy prey for predators), even
on flat country, unless the
management of the ewe before
birth, and of both ewe and lamb
afterwards, has been satisfac-
tory.
The most important single
factor prior to lambing, as re-
iterated by Dr. John Ham-
mond, is adequate nutrition of
the ewe during the final two
months of pregnancy. This in
itself ensures that the lamb will
have a higher birth-weight and,
hence, a greater chance of
survival.
Once born, the lamb needs
for survival every help the fore-
thought of the owner can give
for at least the first three
critical days of its life. Perhaps
the most important thing in this
regard, as well as having a will-
ing mother with a fully func-
tioning udder, is the environ-
ment in which the lamb finds
itself.
The selection of the lambing-
paddock is thus a decision that
should be made only after
many factors —such as season,
topography, soil-texture, water,
ground-cover, age of ewe,
presence of predators, etc. —
have been well considered, for
through a wrong decision an
owner might well lose 5-35 per
cent, (or more) of the lamb-
drop from multiple causes,
including eagles.
Clover and Irrigation
“Ex-R.S.M.”: In North
Queensland in 1943 I gave some
time to studying farming in
the tropics and soon saw that
the soils in areas such as the
Atherton Tableland Were show-
ing signs of exhaustion. As in
S.A. when the restoration of
soil-fertility by clover-growing
was first advocated, the
Atherton landowners were
blaming the seasons “We
don’t get the rains like w£ used
to.”
Here and there one did
meet a progressive farmer who
had read of what had been done
in S.A. by growing sub.-clover,
These men advanced an
apparently conclusive reason
for not growing pasture
legumes. “Show us a clover
which will grow here and we’ll
soon plant it,” they said. I was
told that many trials of clovers
had been made, but all had
failed to become established —
‘‘The wet season drowns them.”
After that, a friend on the
staff of the Waite Institute
sent me an ounce of the seed
of the Palestine strain of
strawberry-clover, almost as
hard to “drown” as watercress.
It had been inoculated with the
correct strain of nitrogen-fixing
bacteria and was accompanied
by a small packet of super-
phosphate, without which noth-
ing could be done.
Near the tip of Cape York,
on a hungry-looking flat of
grey soil, I cleared a patch for
an experimental plot, sowed
the seed, topdressed it with
the super, and surrounded it
with a fence of stout stakes.
The last rains of the wet season
gave it a start.
I didn't see the plot again
until I came back from New
Guinea, over a year later.
Within the stake fence was a
mat of clover a foot deep.
Later, at Jaquinot Bay, New


THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
The Perfect Hotel
For BUSY Men and Women
Right in the heart of the city, the
I lotel Metropoie is the ideal place to
slay during your Sydney business
I I ip and at the same time you’ll find
iis pleasant atmosphere really
relaxing.
Only a step away from Sydney’s
main business offices and handy to
shops and all forms of transport—
-Ihe Hotel Metropoie combines
convenience and comfort with the
relaxed, friendly atmosphere that
has for years made it Australia’s
iriendliest Hotel. Over 400 rooms
ail with telephone and hot and cold
water (85 with private bathrooms),
luxurious ultra-modern suites, day
and night room-service, fine, enter-
taining facilities and magnificent
dining-room and cellar make the
Hotel Metropoie THE hotel for
busy men and women.
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Where It’s Never
Too Much Trouble
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
Britain —a place as hot as any-
where in Queensland and with
over 2Goin. of rain a year--I
found a, wild clover growing
luxuriantly in a coconut planta-
tion.
Much prejudice and apathy
will have to be overcome,
however, before there can be
any widespread growing of
clovers in North Queensland as
restorers of soil-fertility. As
was the case in S.A., these
fundamental facts must be
grasped:
Even if a clover has no
value as fodder, it would still
pay handsomely to put a
paddock under it for a few
years.
The growing of clover must
not be thought of in terms of
stock-carrying capacity. Its
main function is to put humus
and nitrogen into the soil.
The land must be topdressed
with super, and perhaps with
the trace-elements such as
copper, zinc and molybdenum
as well.
Before sowing the seed,
inoculate it with a culture of a
good strain of nitrogen-fixing
bacteria, obtainable from the
Department of Agriculture.
This causes an immense
increase 'in the amount of
nitrogen which the plants put
into the soil.
You must not graze a new
stand of clover until it is well
established.
And the most important
point of all is to realise that
the big returns come only after
the clover has raised soil-
fertility to the point where a
good growth of fodder-grass is
established and maintained.
What struck me even more
forcibly in North Queensland
was the amount of irrfgation-
water running to waste. River
after river, flowing at the rate
of up to a million gallons a day
in the dry season, ran past
extensive flats needing a lift of
only 20ft.-30ft. to irrigate
thousands of acres of pasture.
To a' surprising number of
the men who owned such river-
frontages, irrigation was some-
thing which was done down
south on the Murray. They had
all experienced seasons when
the rains had failed and stock
had either died-off or had
been sold at sacrifice prices.
Yet none seemed to realise
that the water in the river, with
a pumping-plant to irrigate a
couple-of-hundred acres of
pasture, and the fodder baled
and stacked in good seasons,
could end those disasters.
I know that diesel-fuel for
pumping is expensive by the
time it reaches a station in the
Far North, but there is an
alternative source of power in
the steady south-east wind.
Australian enterprise has now
designed giant windmills to use
this wind-power for irrigation.
One of them lifts 100,000 gals.
to a height of 30ft. every 24
hours.
It also takes money to lay-
out the irrigation-bays, erect
the fences, install pumping-
plant and pipelines and con-
struct the channels, but all these
items are allowable deductions
when making-up the income-tax
return.
As a preliminary step
it is advisable to read The
Aston i sji e d Earth, by
Humphrey Kempe, published
by Heinemann and reviewed on
this page (B. 21/5/’5B). Having
seen how Kempe drought-
proofed his station by irrigating
a huge claypan flat on which
nothing grew previously, I can
vouch for the fact that it is
indeed a modern miracle.
At the start some people
scoffed at Kempe’s efforts, but
now they are paying him the
sincere compliment of copy-
ing his example. The same
thing should happen up north
when somebody like Kempe, on
a property with a permanent
water-supply, decides to see
what can be done with clovers
and irrigation in the tropics.
Wintering Sheep
on Hay
“Big Billy”: On country
where winter crops are uncer-
tain or difficult to grow it may
pay to winter sheep, particu-
larly ewes, on hay. Tried in
N.Z., this practice has proved
its merits —in one instance,
carrying capacity on 135 acres
was improved from 500 to 750
sheep.
Key to success is the use of
feeders. These cultivate the
initial taste for hay in an
animal noted for its selective
and sometimes inexplicable
choice -of herbage. Equally
important is the quality of the
hay, which must be first-
class, ryegrass-white-clover for
preference.
Advantages: Confining sheep
to a few paddocks allows feed
to come away over the rest of
the property. More stock are
carried and under cleaner con-
ditions. Poor paddocks are
improved by heavy concentra-
tion of stock droppings.
Disadvantages: Paddocks
become cut-up around gate-
ways in wet weather ; risk of
footrot if there is any about
the district; pugging the
ground will necessitate harrow-
ing and over-sowing; any
weakness in fencing,' particu-
larly in holding-paddocks, will
be shown-up.
Whether the advantages
cancel out the disadvantages
is a matter for the individual
to decide. If he is in favor,
feeding can start in June and
go on until about September,
using at least one bale of hay
per 100 sheep as a daily ration
plus a run-off of 2f-3 hours
on saved grass.
In rough weather more hay
may be eaten and it should be
placed in the feeders and not
on the ground, as sheep won’t
eat wet hay. Sheep-netting
tacked along either side of the
feeders, plus the overhanging
top, diverts rain that would
otherwise soak down into the
hay.
Fungus Food
“Jaygee”: The more-than-
usual interest in this year’s
mushroom-crop may be due to
the taste of many New Aus-
tralians, or to the fact that the
autumns of 1956 and 1957
produced so few mushrooms
that we are determined to
make the most of them while
they last.
Mushrooms are only one of
hundreds of edible fungi, how-
ever. Some others are the
coral fungi, which are highly
colored and look like cauli-
flower ; the white fleshy puff-
balls so common on lawns and,
nature-strips; and the morel,
a springtime fungus recom-
mended as table entrees and
used extensively in Europe and
other countries.
Before using these other
types, however, we must be
able to distinguish good fungi
when we see them. Last year
the Field Naturalists' Club of
Victoria reprinted . Victorian
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(5/6/’58)
There should he further good rains in Queensland
during the last week in June, although rainfall may be
patchy during July except for reasonably good rains on the
south coast. Light to moderate, patchy rains are indicated
during the spring, with general rains during December.
N. S. Wales should receive moderate to good rains
during July, with heaviest falls in the southern divisions and
on part of the central coast. There should be a good season
in the southern divisions, but patchy elsewhere during spring.
General rains should continue in Victoria during July—
fairly heavy with the prospect of severe flooding in the
Wimmera, Northern Division, Latrobe Valley and Upper
Yarra.
Good rains should continue in many areas of South
Australia during July, although rainfall should be patchy in
the north interior. Good rains should continue in the agri-
cultural areas until October.
Moderate rains, mainly below normal, are indicated in
the south-west agricultural areas of Western Australia,
although good rains above average should occur in the north-
west and Gascoyne areas. Poor elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


ITT
mMmsm
Wsmm
MM
*? yw/.. cZ^ftweye
■ &
-
hKh
s
\
9o
V' ••■
sas&sssa&i
flttf itfi;
is
7 - x C% v :WS^h^^-jsfe
j '•’'
s A\ "\4{rts
MPPgr^rf
-v \;,;.;.' aY, ! s tits
%
a
i-;®
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES, DISTILLED & BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd., Distillers, Perth, Scotland. Est. 1825
Toadstools and Mushrooms,
by J. H. Willis, B.Sc., of the
National Herbarium staff, with
a foreword by Dr. Ethel
McLennan, Associate Professor
of Botany, Melbourne Univer-
sity. This handbook gives all
the interesting information
about the edible species of
fungi and is well illustrated.
The author recommends us to
eat what we know to be whole-
some, and to avoid anything
uncertain.
Apart from food, fungi plays
an important part in Nature’s
economy, and they have
recently become highly
important as sources of power-
ful antibiotic drugs, such as
penicillin and streptomycin.
Anyone can be a fungus-
hunter. Mushrooms require a
temperature of 50-75 deg., but
others are found in winter,
spring and summer. Every
patch of bush and scrub is a
hunting-ground, rich in possi-
bilities, and trees, rotting logs,
fence-posts and heaps of
humus could harbor rare
specimens.
Water Conservation
“Myall”: The drought in
Queensland has turned the
attention of farmers and
graziers to water-conservation,
and many projects are under
-way or under considera-
tion. A number of land-
holders have inspected the
Sydney University’s Badgery
Creek Farm, near Sydney, and
are modelling their own
schemes on this technique.
One of the most ambitious
of these is at Jimb o u r,
16 miles from Dalby on
the Darling Downs, where a
giant water-harvesting scheme
has just been cofnpleted.
A range of low hills runs
along one side of the property
and three large dams have been
excavated near the foot of
these to catch the water as it
comes down the slopes. This
will prevent erosion of the rich
soil on the flats. A huge
earthern tank and a dam have
been made in the lower portion
of the farmlands, and when the
three upper dams are full the
water is pipelined into these.
Water run-off from the farm
itself is caught by wide con-
toured canals traversing the
cultivations and directed into
the tank, thus eliminating
scouring and washaways.
In alt, 81,000 cubic-yards of
earth have been evacuated and
the total capacity of the five
storages is estimated at well
over 100 million gallons.
The impounded water will
irrigate about 300 acres of
permanent pastures as well as
fields of forage crops. It is
estimated that enough fodder
will be produced from the
irrigated area to carry the stock
through a season of prolonged
drought.
Another huge scheme is
planned in the Grey Range, 60
miles west of Quilpie, in the far
south-west. This district is still
in the grip of drought and all
heavy equipment is at present
engaged in scrub-rolling for
fodder for the sheep on the
station. When this is over, an
earthen wall will be built
across a valley between two
hills. It will measure 800 ft.
long, 36ft. high, with a width
of 25ft. at the top and 235 at
the base. The capacity of the
dam is estimated at about
2-million cubic-yards of
water, and this will be used to
irrigate 100 acres of lucerne on
the rich, red soil nearby.
When the dam is full, enough
water will be impounded to
irrigate the area for two years
without any rain in the catch-
ment area. Between 700 and
800 tons of lucerne hay is
expected to be harvested each
year, and this will be stored
until a reserve of 2000 tons is
reached. This amount of fodder
will be sufficient to feed the
12,000 sheep on the property
for almost 12 months, and
would ensure a satisfactory
lambing every season.
Farm Hints
“Ninety-nine": Many cattle
are poisoned by absorbing
arsenic through the skin after
dipping. This is most likely
under conditions which delay
drying, such as high humidity
or drizzling rain. Affected
cattle are obviously sick, stag-
ger and have a profuse blackish
scour. The animal should be
sprayed thoroughly with a
solution of 21b.-51b. hypo, in
lOgal. of water. Better results
are obtained if the spray is
rubbed into the hide.
“A. T. Head": Overheating
because of a faulty cooling-
system is one of the main causes
of trouble with the water-
cooled internal - combustion
engine. As the most efficient
operating temperature of an
engine is 180°F., and as the
boiling-point of water is 212°
F., there is no margin for a
temperature-rise to boiling-
point. Main reason why engines
overheat is clogging of the
various passages of the water-
jacket by oil, scale, rust and
sludge. The use of soluble oil
will keep rust to a minimum,
but if oil, grease or sludge is
evident, the jacket should be
thoroughly cleaned by adding
a recommended cleanser to the
water and flushing liberally
with clean water,
“VS”: When abortions
occur in herds that have been
vaccinated for brucellosis with
’ h u° S K ° r
hf ll 6 rrt
they can be diagnosed with
certainty by bacteriological
examination of the aborted
foetus. No obvious sign of
ill-health is produced in either
cows or bulls. As affected cows
often lose their calf only a
short time after mating, the loss
of the calf may not be noticed.
“F.D.L.": Freedom from
weeds is important if the
lucerne stand is to remain
productive over a long period,
Cultivation with narrow-tyne
implements immediately after
cutting or grazing will do much
to control weeds and to assist
penetration of rain. Sandy-
loam soils need fewer cultiva-
tions than heavier types, which
tend to set hard on the surface,
The ploughing out of stands
used for hay is advised if weeds
become dominant after a few
years,
“Villers”: The standard
wheat-drill can be used for
planting Rhodes-grass if sieved
saw dust or rice hulls are used
as diluents - The seed may also
be "fixed with fertiliser and
, .. r i ... ,
sown through he fertthser-bo*
. a . seed-d rj 11 or through a
fertiliser-spreader. Use of a
drill reduces the amount needed
f° r planting an acre from 71b.
whe n broadcast by hand to as
fidle as 21b.
~„T . , . „
Ninety -_ nine : Water
st °red in earth tanks and dams
which becomes unpalatable to
stock and unsuitable for
domestic uses because of
muddiness can be cleared by
the use of commercial alum, a
harmless chemical. The amount
of alum necessary depends on
whether the water is acid,
alkaline or neutral.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The Queen’s Birthday holiday week-
end brought winter and rain in on us
with a vengeance. Many people had been
growing uneasy about the Indian Summer
and (at least in their hearts) were wishing
that we might get some “more seasonable
weather.” Now we have it and it really
does seem like vengeance.
* ☆ *
The Queen’s birthday is really April
21, but the ceremonies are transferred to
June in the hope (so it is said) that the
weather (English) will be better then. This
year, unfortunately, the rain fell unceas-
ingly during the Trooping the Color cere-
mony, and the Queen rode to it and sat
for an hour unprotected in the down-
pour. However, said a palace official,
“the Queen's tunic was remarkably dry
when she returned after the parade.” It
must have been made of Australian wool.
☆ ☆ ☆
Pale-blue candles in silver candelabra
made a charming decoration for the
official table at the Mater Hospital Ball
and reflected the blue-and-white scheme
of the ball generally. The Governor and
Lady Woodward were welcomed by the
president of the ball-committee, Mrs.
Tom Bateman, and Dr. Bateman, chair-
man of the Hosp.tal Board (Mr. Justice
McClemens), and Dr. H. M. Saxby, the
medical superintendent. Among those
who attended were the Federal Minister
for Health, the Hon. D. A. Cameron, and
Mrs. Cameron, and the State Minister
for Health, the Hon. W. F. Sheahan, and
Mrs. Sheahan, Opposition-leader P. H.
Morton and Mrs. Morton, the Hon.
J. O. Cramer and Mrs. Cramer, Mr.
Ivan Black, M.L.A., and Mrs. Black. The
prize lor the most glamorous gown worn
to the ball (judged by Mrs. C. R.
McKerihan) was won by Mrs. Kevin
Byrne, whose bouffant tiered dress of
amethyst taffeta was embroidered with
amethyst and silver brilliants.
# * #
Features of the Legacy Ball at the
Trocadero were the military uniforms,
the decorations (on the uniforms) and
the debs, who were presented to the
Governor, Sir Eric Woodward. The pre-
sident of Sydney Legacy, Mr. Justice Le
Gay Brereton, received the guests.
At the Bachelors’ Ball, the bachelors
were the feature, those who, presided over
by Andrew Grimwade, received the guests
at the • Wentworth, and those who, in
the dandified costumes and dashing mous-
taches of the past, decorated the walls.
On the same night as the Bachelors the
Main Road Board held its 29th annual
ball, its features being humorous posters
by John Ash, poinsettia decorations and
an abundance of youthful dancers.
Among the “officials” were Mr. and Mrs.
S. C. Robertson, Mr. J. Shaw, Mr. and
Mrs. H. M. Sherrard, Miss M. Hale, Mr.
Noel Pelly, Mr. and Mrs. R. B. Quick.
Noela Doyle and Barbara Brown, who
were responsible for much of the organis-
ing, were squired by Peter Coffee and
Peter Bruce.
Newly appointed matron of Bathurst
District Hospital, Margaret Sloman is the
granddaughter of the late Thomas Slo-
man, of Bathurst, who married Rachel
Henning’s sister Amy in 1855. (“The
Letters of Rachel Henning,” which were
first published in The Bulletin, gave a
vivid picture of Australian life a century
ago.) Margaret’s father, the late C. W.
Sloman, was a bank-manager in Bathurst
for many years. Margaret, who was on
the staff of the Royal Prince Alfred Hos-
pital for close on 15 years, was granted
leave-of-absence for six months to visit
the U.K., where she nursed at the Royal
Infirmary, Wales, for a short period and
did some post-graduate work before
returning to Australia. Photo by
Freeman.
Innovations were seen m the dressing
of two weddings during the week. For
her marriage to Dugald Munro (Maru-
lan), Romayne Hordern carried one beau-
tiful long-stemmed rose instead of a
bridal bouquet, the leaves and buds
creating sufficient decorative line. Her
bridesmaids carried white prayer-books.
Mary Anne McDonald’s head-dress for
her marriage to John Duncan was a high
Swedish-crown of iilies-of-the-valley—
very unusual—and her bridesmaids wore
similar dresses to her own white satin,
an idea which she saw in England during
her recent visit.
Veterans of Dunkirk are being sought
as guests by organisers of the Red Cross
Gaia Premiere of the M.G.M. film “Dun-
kirk,” which will be held at the St.
James Theatre on Friday, July 18. Vet-
erans should get in touch with Mrs. Mary
Hamilton at Red Cross House, Jamison
Street, Sydney. The gala is under the
patronage of the Governor-General, Sir
William Slim, who will be present, as
well as the heads of all services and
Sydney’s leading citizens.
V V V
Interesting functions soon to take place
include the Pied Piper Bali, which is set
down for June 27 at Prince's. The pro-
ceeds of this ball will go towards buying
a bus for the Spastic Centre, a charity
for which the Pied Piper committee has
done much good work. The president of
the committee is Mrs. Barry Brooke
(FM 6998) and Mrs. D. Perkins (JJ 1558)
knows all about the tickets.
Another interesting event coming up
next week is the Genesian Theatre’s first
ball, its date and place the Rainbow
Room at the Australia on June 26. Radio,
TV and theatre people will be well repre-
sented, and it is hoped to make tnis oail
an annual get-together of all those inter-
ested in theatre generally and the Gene-
sians specifically.
# #
Women of N.S.W. were represented in
the Birthday Honors List by Miss
Dorothy Knox, principal of the Presby-
terian Ladies’ College (Pyrnble), and Miss
Gertrude Roseby, formerly principal of
Redlands School, both of whom received
the 0.8. E. Those to whom the M.B.E.
was awarded included Miss Una Clife,
president of the N.S.W. Ladies’ Golf
Union ; Mrs. Edith Monk (Stratftfieid);
Mrs. Cecilia Berry (Rundle); Miss Flor-
ence Sulman (Collaroy); Mrs. Jessie Todd
(Griffith); Mrs. Malvina Tomkins (Five
Dock); Mrs. Nola Dekyvere; Miss
Elizabeth Skillen ; and Mrs. Editn Preston
Stanley.
& V V
Cami-knickers, those pretty little com-
bination-garments so symbolic of the
1920’5, are back in the mode. Now called
“petit chemise,” they were seen at the
marathon fashion-parade in aid of Red
Cross at the Trocadero last week. The
chemise-line was seen also in swimsuits
by Cole of California, where the Eastern
influence was also rife. Harry Dearth
was the compere of the show, which
stretched from 11 a.m. to afternoon-tea
time ; but when it came to describing the
fashions he yielded the stage to Mrs.
Phyllis Burke.
V V V
The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. H. F. Jensen,
entertained in her rooms on Wednesday
the 14 pretty girls who will make their
debut at the Lady Mayoress’ Ball on
Friday, September 26. The Governor,
Sir Eric Woodward, and Lady Wood-
ward will receive the debs., who will be
presented by matron-of-honor Mrs. E. D.
Empson (Dover Heights). The debs, to
make their bow are Sandra Aird, Francee
Bugler, Helen Cutler, Jewell Carter,


Brenda Evernden, Kaye Gillingham, Sue
Hampson, Jan Jensen, Helen Kivinen,
Deirdre Marshall, Julie Marshall, Vir-
ginia Thome, Helen Turner, and Robynne
Quinn.
# V
The Armidale Ball will be held in the
Rainbow Room of the Hotel Australia on
Saturday, June 21. Organisers are the
members of The Armidale School Old
Boys’ Union (Sydney branch) and the
New England Girl’s School Old Girls’
Union (Sydney branch). Among the
official guests will be the president of the
Old Boys’ unions of the G.P.S., and it is
hoped too that the headmaster of T.A.S.
(Mr. G. A. Fisher), and the headmistress
of N.E.G.S. (Miss E. M. Colebrook) will
be able to come down from Armidale for
the ball. Receiving the guests will be the
presidents of the two unions, Mrs. C. R.
Gant (N.E.G.S.), and Mr. J. B. Browne
(T.A.S.), with Mrs. Browne.
☆ ☆ ☆
Australia has come to know and love
Dame Sybil Thorndike and Sir Lewis
Casson so well that their departure last
week was quite a wrench. Their first
project is to visit their daughter Ann,
who lives in Ontario, their son-in-law
David Campbell and” four grandchildren.
They will stay in Canada little more than
a week, then off they go to London, where
Dame Sybil will start making a film.
MELBOURNE
Two women well known to this Letter
richly deserve the Order of the British
Empire bestowed on them by the Queen.
One is Mrs. H. F. Creswick, of Toorak,
who for 40 years has worked for pre-
school children. She is chairman of the
Colombo Plan Pre-school Standing Com-
mittee, which she founded five years ago.
A Dame of the Order of St. John, Mrs.
Creswick was, during the war, Principal
Commandant of the Australian Red Cross
Society. In 1944 she went to England
to see that sick and wounded Australian
servicemen in hospitals throughout Great
Britain were receiving adequate Red
Cross help. From 1946-49 she was the
vice-chairman of the Australian Red
Cross Society, the first woman appointed
to that position.
Mrs. Eccles Mac Kay, who also received
an 0.8. E., is, like Mrs. Creswick, actively
concerned with Red Cross, being deputy-
chairman of the Victorian division, as
well as Divisional Commandant. Mrs.
Mac Kay was the first woman in Victoria
Jo receive the Red Cross Meritorious
Service Medal. She joined Red Cross in
1939 and throughout the war was in the
transport division. Senior vice-president
of the National Florence Nightingale
Committee of Australia, she was presi-
dent for four years. She also serves as
a member of St. Catherine school council
and and is a council member
of the Melba Conservatorium.
* * *
Among country women who received
the M.B.E. in the Honors List are Miss
Mary Bradshaw—for her work as secre-
tary (for 17 years) of the Terang and
district branch of Red Cross and as a
district commissioner (for 15 years) of
Girl Guides—and Mrs. Maud Elena
Hutchinson, who has worked for the
Wimmera Base Hospital auxiliary since
1912, and is also a foundation-member
of the Horsham auxiliary for the Royal
.Victorian Institute for the Blind.
☆ ☆ ☆
The first of three international cookery-
demonstrations to aid the Anti-Cancer
Campaign was held (with Lady Brooks
as guest-of-honor) in the Gas and Fuel
Corporation auditorium. Her Excellency
wore a jacket-suit of navy wool and a
matching cloche which had a swathe of
pink chiffon across the front. She was
welcomed by the chairman of the Kembla
sub-committee (Mrs. R. S. Andrews),
whose ink-blue suit was worn with a
matching hat trimmed in mushroom
tonings. The French dinner was arranged
by Dr. Jean Battersby (a charming Aus-
tralian who recently spent some time in
Paris on a scholarship awarded by the
French Government) and demonstrated
by Mrs. Marcelle Marstenbrook.
Organiser of the demonstration was Mrs.
Anne Mason. Present were Mrs. Sidney
Baillieu Myer and her daughter Mrs.
Ross Shelmerdine, Mrs. R. Buchanan,
Mrs. G. W. Palamountain, Mrs. Maurice
Nathan, Marion McPherson and Marjorie
Tatnall.
☆ ☆ ☆
Members of the Royal British Com-
monwealth Society met for their usual
monthly luncheon in the Lower Town
Hall under the chairmanship of Lieut.-
General Sir Horace Robertson. Guest-
speaker was Mr. C. Roy Nichols, 0.8. E.,
of the Chamber of Manufactures, who
was accompanied by Mrs. Nichols. Guests
included Sir Frank and Lady Norris,
Brigadier Ray Tovell, Mrs. Claude
Couchman, Mrs. F. W. Brockhoff, Mrs.
Olivia Gardner, Sir Archie Michaelis and
Miss Stella Palfrey.
☆ ☆ ☆
Wesley College chapel was the setting
for the marriage of Jennifer Joy, twin
daughter and Dr. and Mrs. Paul Jones, of
Balwyn, and Alan Galt, third son of Dr.
and Mrs. Horace Galt Thomas, _ of
Madura, India. The bride chose a long-
sleeved gown of tulle and chantilly-lace,
the bodice featuring a heart-shaped neck-
line, the skirt falling into a graceful train.
A pearl tiara held the tulle veil, and she
carried a bouquet of gardenias and
hyacinths. Her sisters Josephine and
Jocelyn ’maided in strapless ballerina
frocks of white ruched nylon-tulle. They
carried bouquets of cyclamen to match
the flowers worn in their hair. The bride-
groom had his brothers Jeffrey and lan
as best man and groomsman. The recep-
tion was in the Bamboo Room of
Chevron Hotel.
V V #
Very appropriately, the Toorak Junior
Auxiliary to the Royal Women’s Hospital
called their dinner-dance “Another
Happy Event.” This was held at No. 9
Darling Street, and was attended by more
than 200. Guest-of-honor was the
auxiliary’s patroness, Mrs. E. M. Corn-
foot, who wore midnight-blue pleated
chiffons. She was received by auxiliary
president Mrs. Max Mitchell -(whose
smart Dior frock was in Dior-red satin)
and her husband.
Among lovely frocks noted were Mrs.
Hedley Ladd’s ruched white and gold
lame ; Mrs. Bruce Matear’s white satins
gaily patterned in red roses; Mrs. Louis
Mendes’s frock of hyacinth-blue satin, the
skirt ruched to the hem, which was
clustered with masses of pastel-toned
flowers; ticket-secretary Mrs. Douglas
Bowden’s long-sleeved, short dinner-frock
in mint-green guipure-lace; the green
taffeta, harem-hemline frock worn by
Mrs. Alan Guest, the other ticket-
secretary ; Mrs. Josh Pitt’s white and
silver lam£; Mrs. Noel Thomas’s
cinnamon - brown silk - organza frock
trimmed with matching guipure-lace ; and
Mrs. John Warlow's strapless gold lame
frock, which featured a harem-hem.
CANBERRA
The Governor-General, Sir William
Slim, gave an evening reception at
Government House in honor of the
Queen’s Birthday. Sir William received
in the drawing-room, where the Prime
Minister and Dame Pattie. Menzies and
the Chief of the General Staff, Lieut.-
General A. R. Garrett, with Mrs. Garrett,
were amon'g the 230 guests.
* ☆ -£r
Grey skies and many cold feet among
the spectators didn't dampen apprecia-
tion of the always-impressive ceremonial
parade and Trooping the Color by cadets
at the Royal Military College, Duntroon,
in honor of the Queen’s Birthday. Sur-
rounded by red-berry hedges, the parade-
ground was a colorful picture. Chief of
the General Stalf, Lieut.-General A. R.
Garrett, inspected the parade and took
the salute, and afterwards the Comman-
dant R.M.C., Maj.-General J. G. N.
Wilton, and Mrs. Wilton entertained
guests at morning-tea in the gardens of
Duntroon House. 1
The hostess chose a smart sapphire-
blue suit and matching hat. Among the
guests were Lieut.-General Garrett and
his wife ; the U.K. Liaison Officer, Col.
Gillson, and Mrs. Gillson; Col. Hum-
phrey Bates and Mrs. Bates; Lieut.-
Colonel and Mrs. Hardiman ; Major B. A.
McDonald and his wife, and Major and
Mrs. Richardson. Also noted Mr. and
Mrs. John Howse (her attractive black-
velvet coat featured a white mink collar)
and Commander and Mrs. Simms, of
H.M.A.S. Harman.
Many heads of diplomatic missions
were there, including the American
Ambassador, Mr. W. J. Sebald; the
French Ambassador and Mme. Renaud
Sivan ; the Netherlands Ambassador and
Mme. Lovink, and the Indonesian
Ambassador, Dr. A. y. Helmi.


DAWN
The earliest is Bruno, the
casual courter. Theie
are several young ladies
of marriageable age
Bruno visits frequently, but
with no fixed pattern or
sequence, an arrangement they
acknowledge and accept. Thus,
for them, there is always an
atmosphere of expectancy con-
nected with his coming and
going.
Their uncertainty spreads
and changes form in passing
from them to us. They are
unsure when Bruno will call;
we cannot tell when Bruno
will challenge our rest.
For he is a scavenger of
time. Why waste the remainder
of the night, already nudging
the morning? Bruno has found
it more profitable to put it to
purpose. He keeps his tractor-
seat free of paddock-dust, its
gaskets taut, unblemished by
escaping oil, its nipples cleaned
of lavish grease.
Even wearing his best suit
Bruno can haul his cane-trucks
into position for the next day’s
harvest without dry-cleaning
concern, return to his home
and sleep with an easy
conscience.
His night-shatterings lack
the consistency of Vic, the
contract cane-haulier, but the
effect, charged as it is with
suspense, is more subtly
diabolic.
Vic is irrevocably convinced
that the major ills of the
modern internal - combustion
engine are a direct result of
the back-pressures occasioned
by the continued use of a
silencer. Chained to this for-
mula, he js committed to pro-
tect his valves, his bearings and
his con-rods by the fitting of a
straight-through exhaust-pipe,
which lends to his lorry-engine
note a penetration of such
supersonic intensity that no
bedroom up to a mile distant
from the road can remain
indifferent to his passing.
Vic has the detached profes-
sional regard to early hours of
all experienced cane-hauliers
and, except for his unmuffled
exhaust, operates without
undue disturbance.
Cdward is new to the game
•*“' and therefore cannot
quite free himself from a feel-
ing of martyrdom as he drives
past unlit houses. He demon-
strates this narrowing chink in
his make-up by revving a little
overlong at the siding where he
gathers his empty cane-trucks,
hammering without real pro-
vocation upon bent tyre-rims,
and clattering his cane-rails
with unwarranted vehemence.
In addition, his martyrdom
has been expressed and abetted
by his preference for the
double - reduction differential.
A whole convention of mech-
anical-engineers would be
puzzled to explain how a
mechanism filled with the wail-
ings, the gnashings, the grind-
ings, the loud and expensive-
sounding noises, of Edward’s
differential could continue to
function.
Edward usually leaves the
range of our hearing a little
after three, and leaves a gap
in the night for Louie to fill.
Louie too, earns his crusts
with his lorry, and up to a
few months ago was so quiet
that we worried
about him. He
muffled his
motor ; attacked
no wheel-rims ;
clattered no rails.
Then, practically overnight, he
redeemed himself.
He did this with an inven-
tion of great complication and
magnificence. His colleagues,
like him, used 12ft. sections of
rail-line to transport the empty
cane-trucks from the mill tram-
line to the backs of their lor-
ries. These they flung on to
the steel lorry-back after lifting
each cane-truck, every fling
echoing a metallic tribute to
their skill and strength. Louie
was no flinger, only a quiet
slider of rails under truck-
bodies.
Then Louie went hydraulic.
TVow Louie’s rails are built
as one unit with his lorry
and can be made to pivot from
ground-level to a point in the
air threatening the telephone-
wires. This operation is
achieved by an arrangement of
ex-Air Force retractable-under-
carriage mechanisms, hydrau-
lic pistons, rams, cylinders,
storage-batteries, foot-switches,
take-off shafts, and an electric-
wiring layout so complicated
and defiant of conventional
procedure as to merit an elec-
tronic thesis.
In action the cylinder-ram
wails like a threatened woman
nearing the point of exhaus-
tion, an appropriate simile at
such an hour; in practice
Louie raises and lowers his
rails more frequently than
necessity demands; no doubt
time will cure this intemper-
Short Story by
CLIVE MORTON
ance and reduce the extent of
the wailings.
It is just that now, in the
first light of morning, Louie,
unmasked of frail ego by the
empty solitude around him,
made conscious of the trivial-
ity and inadequacy of man in
a sprawling world of half-
darkness, has found a deep
humility. In this state of pro-
found self-abasement Louie is
overa\yed that the trifle he has
discovered himself to be could
have created such a complex
arrangement as his hydraulic
cane-rails.
His mind gradually becomes
tuned to an acceptance that
these things have come to be,
but recoils from
acknowledging
that this noble
hydraulic con-
trivance can
really work.
Only after raising, lowering
and inspecting his cane-rails a
dozen times does conviction
come to Louie. In a few weeks
the novelty of his invention
will pass, leaving him better
equipped by familiarity to
master his perplexing modesty.
Vic, Edward and Louie are
not slaves to punctuality. They
arrive sometime after 2.30 a.m.
and leave before four. This
tolerance of time horrifies
George.
is a cane-cutter cf
migrant-ship extraction;
from Greece. He lives in a
barracks built through inex-
perience far too close to the
house and containing near by,
as a concession to rural luxury,
a second-hand septic-system.
George is equipped with an
intestinal tract of jewelled pre-
cision. Invariably each morn-
ing, exactly at 4.15, he hauls
the chain of a cistern called
Silentia which responds by
impersonating a steam-engine
safety-valve releasing steam at
full pressure.
Ever since he pursued a
fellow-countryman cane-cutter
across the paddocks wielding a
piece of 3in. by 2in. hard-
wood, following a disagree-
ment over money lent, gaining
both the money and a gentle
admonishment from the law
who conceded the extreme pro-
vocation involved, George has
become infinitely respectful of
authority.
This respect extenas to the
provisions of the Sugar Award
(State) which, among other
things, insists that a cane-cutter
shall not labor before six. Thus
George, following his safari to
the cistern called Silentia, is
confined to barracks with one-
and-threequarter hours be-
tween him and the allowable
hour of toil.
This period could be spent
in the leisurely boiling of an
egg upon a wood-stove and
sawing horizontally in half the
loaf of bread which joins the
egg and 6oz. of butter as his
morning diet. But George has
appointed himself guardian of
his own finer instincts threat-
ened by the bluntening effects
of contract cane-cutting. He
disregards the wood-stove and,
to save time, uses a primus
pumped to such a pressure that
its vaporiser discharges a cone
of flame with the potential
thrust of a Comet jet.
This intensity gives to the
egg-boiling such rapidity that
George can provide up to 90
minutes of accordion-playing
before work.
There is some question
whether George is a skilled
player of accordions. Cer-
tainly, on Australian standards,
he is not. But then again, the
melancholy wheezings, the
gaspings, the seemingly dis-
cordant dirges that escape from
his instrument, while unrecog-
nisable to us, could quite well
be melody-memories of his
homeland, representing a rich,
if unappreciated, cross-section
of Grecian culture . . .
'T'he bloke from the garage
who came to try to sell us
the chisel-plough stood on the
back-steps and gazed round
him.
“ ’Strath,” he said, pointing
to a house, its outline made
vague by distance. “Is that
your nearest neighbor?”
We nodded.
“ ’Strath,” the bloke said
again. He sighed and shook
his head. “How lucky can you
be?” he demanded.
We considered the vagaries
of fortune.
“You ought to live where I
do,” the bloke went on. He
snorted. “Neighbors,” he said
disgustedly. “Talk about
neighbors. Blaring wirelesses,
bawling kids coming home late
from the pictures. Talk about
row!”
He gazed into the middle-
distance again.
“ ’Strath,” he said wistfully,
“it’d be great to live some-
where like this. Somewhere
where a man could get a decent
night’s rest!”


Between
Ourselves
•—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
the roar of applause thunder-
ing after her as she leaped to
seclusion. Now Ningpo
hustled Natasha into her clothes
and threw the shabby grey
coat around her. They left
swiftly through the waiters’
side-door.
Safely out in the dark, twist-
ing alleyway, they decided to
walk home. It was somewhere
between 1 a.m. and 2 a.m.,
when sensible army-sentries not
already asleep at their posts
had gone to seek cozier beds.
The streets were deserted. They
swung along, giggling over their
success as costume-artists—
-19-year-old dancer, 21-year-
old Ningpo. Washed com-
pletely from their minds was
the fact that mistress had dug
servant with a sharp hairpin
“Hold on , Mamie —I can explain everything !"
during the process of dressing
and had received a kick in the
shins for her pains. They had
no troubles- —
Until they turned into our
street. Then they noticed a
dark shadow following them,
a wide, dark shadow that
dodged in and out, stopping
whenever they turned, con-
tinuing whenever they walked
on.
Ningpo took charge of the
attack. She waited until they
were almost to the entrance of
Lotus Apartments, then she
darted into the stony alleyway,
snatched up an. armful of
natural weapons, and let-fly at
their pursuer.
Under cover of this barrage
of mud and rocks, mistress
and servant dashed into the
building and ran up the stairs
to their flat above mine.
“You followed those two
wildcats all the way from
downtown? You might have
been killed!” I remonstrated
with Wash Amah next morning
as she brushed and put away
the black silk trousers and
short coat, her protective
coloring of the night before.
Amah simply gave me a
tirade on household affairs in
general, addressing me by the
dignified Chinese title of si mu,
honorable wife. Then she
turned to passing judgment on
the maidservant-part of our
neighbors’ strip-tease act.
“Bad, useless girl, that Ningpo.
How she ever get marry for
Natasha, throw all those mud
an’ stones? Maybe some night
that young Western man try-
ing to follow her. . .”
The ways of nature and the
ways of life are strange and
deep. They are not to be
understood. In the midst of
wars man’s attraction to maid
goes on, a secret work, and
this whether love is denied or
love is bestowed. It binds us
all. A heartening thought.
Natasha, the most beautiful,
versatile, young artist I have
ever known about (she con-
fined her conversation to
Ningpo, never bothering with
the rest of us in that building,
so should I say I knew her?),
was a grain of the spice of our
glamorous city until the
Communists came, conquered,
settled in, killing all joi de vie
and reducing citizens to starva-
tion with their blockade on
this vital shipping-port which
continues to this day
Shanghai, one-time Paris of the
Orient.
T} xtracting yourself from
Communist teeth is not
easy.
After they’ve captured a
city, stripped you clean of all
material things such as busi-
ness, bank-account, and real-
estate, under cover of taxes
so high they soon possess your
all in lieu of payment, they
become supersensitive about
your desire to leave their
domain.
“But we’ve created the
Ideal State, why are you not
happy?”
Mouths overflowing with
your food, they crowd into
your one-time home, admonish-
ing you. Comfortably seated,
unwashed comrades can argue
for hours, oblivious to the
ugliness and terror they have
created. You’re lucky if they
don’t bed eight-strong on your
living»room floor ; make a night
of it.
I was having my troubles;
not so Natasha. Although any-
one else trying to escape to the
“hoggish, bruiser, capitalist-
country America,” rumor said,
was beaten to death by a
tribunal-club after a street
mock-trial, sliced to pieces as
he slept, or mysteriously
removed, Wash Amah pre-
dicted there would be no
trouble about those vigorous
two at the top of the house
getting away, even though the
Soviet-successors to the Bol-
sheviks and enemies of alt
White Russians, were pour-
ing into Shanghai as “advisers,”
and the dancer born in China
had no birth-certificate, not
even a country, and certainly
no passport.
Amah had observed how
eagerly Ningpo took to the
Communist indoctrination-
classes, agreeing to each
statement just as if she could
understand the guttural Yenan
cave-dialect the lectures were
delivered in, and staggering to
the flat above mine loaded with
propaganda - pamphlets for
overseas-distribution. These
she packed atop their cases of
costumes, her mistress not even
bothering to question such pro-
cedure.
Smooth and swift, bidding
adieu to no one, Natasha,
using the price of air-tickets
stuffed into her post-box by
the older Western man who
had seen her strip-tease act,
had never spoken to her, but
had felt such talent should be
rewarded . . . Natasha headed
for Hollywood. She, her
maidservant and boxes of
costumes flew direct from our
bombed-out airfield, Ningpo
nonchalantly tossing overboard
all reading-matter, including
the Red pamphlets.
In no time at all they were
disembarking at Los Angeles,
whose press-captions glorified
their arrival in the film-colony.
Because of those directors’
habits of obliterating all else,
then building-up something
with their fingerprints on it, that
beautiful girl’s chestnut hair
may be bleached blonde by
now, her nationality advertised
as Eskimo, and her act
remoulded to present her as an
ice-skater on stilts.
But one thing I know:
whatever she’s called upon to
do, Natasha the dancer will
make something enticing out
of it!


The lowest-priced major encyclopaedia
in the English language
EVERYMAN’S
ENCYCLOPAEDIA
COMPLETELY NEW 1958 EDITION
IN 12 VOLUMES
• Never before has this famous Encyclopaedia undergone such thorough and careful
revision. The whole work of nearly nine million'words has been newly set in fresh type.
# Every article, large or small, has been gone over in its entirety and in minutest detail.
There are 50.000 articles, ranging from paragraphs to essays of 40,000 words. All
statistical information has been brought right up to date. All subjects in this vast A to
Z compilation have been reconsidered and the articles recast and rewritten as necessary in
the light of the new knowledge and ideas of the last few years.
9 Every branch of human knowledge and achievement is covered: Science in all its latest
and oldest manifestations; Religion and Theology and Philosophy of all times;
Biographies of all important figures of the world; History and Geography, Wars and
Peace ; Fine Art and Recreation ; Language ; Useful Arts and Applied Sciences ;
Sociology and Social Services ; Literature and Drama ; Practical Information of
every conceivable sort. It can safely be asserted that Everyman’s Encyclopaedia will give
a satisfactory answer to any question raised by the intelligent reader.
★
Publication of first two volumes: Early June, 1958
Thereafter in groups at approximately two-monthly intervals.
It is hoped to complete publication by December, 1958.
Price before completion of the set: 34/9 net per volume
After completion (not later than Ist January, 1959) 39/9 net per volume
■ !
★
Obtainable from all booksellers
Publishers: J. M. DENT & SONS LTD., London
Australian Agents:
Georgian House Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 52, Albert Park, Victoria
how would anyone not an Australian
know what
Country towns with your schooner
bees
And locusts burnt in the pepper-
trees
could conjure-up for an Australian far
from home?
Number 3’s other big literary feature
is a symposium on Patrick White,
which might very well have been
entitled “Voss is Dat?” with Alister
Kershaw on expatriates, Patrick White
himself on prodigal sons, Robert Fry on
“Voss” and John Thompson on White’s
previous Australian critics: here the
usually gentle John Thompson lays
about him with a club: A. D. Hope,
Kylie Tennant, Ross Campbell, Douglas
Stewart —none is spared; all lie writhing
in the dust.
There is an appreciation of Jack
Davey as the epitome of witty Aus-
tralian manhood, a practical article on
beer, Randolph Stow on “Cole’s
Funny Picture Book,” and a somewhat
recognisable application of “The Gee-
bung Polo Club” to “The Police Boys
Polo Club,” by Sir Robert George,
Governor of South Australia.
R. McC.
Snakes
To a reviewer who had grown more-
or-less resigned to hobnobbing with
snakes along the rivers of New South
Wales and once even spent a day with
the Reptile Club in French’s Forest
watching these ardent souls turn over
stones for death-adders and dive into
bushes to grab things by the tail, Eric
WorralPs Song of the Snake (Angus
and Robertson) is extremely discon-
certing.
The two snake-men who helped “That
Man Gray” with his snake-show in Pitt
Street, Sydney, in 1917 were both
killed by tiger-snakes, one the first night
the show opened, and the other, in spite
of the fact that he had drawn the
snake’s fangs, a month later —“Witness
Le Soeuff, an eminent zoologist,
pointed-out that the venom-glands
were still intact, and could introduce
poison into small wounds inflicted by
other teeth.”
Cleopatra, the lady snake-charmer
at the Manly carnival, shortly after-
wards also died by a tiger-snake. Young
Wanliss, an Australian showman who
went to South Africa, died of the bite
of a green mamba—“At four-o’clock
the following morning Tom developed
bad symptoms At ten-o’clock he
had a look at himself in the mirror and
calmly remarked, ‘The green mamba
wins.’ ”
Anthony Kimbel, George Under-
wood, Pegleg Davis, Vagabond Jim,
Gus Layton, Dot Vane, Fred Murray,
Harry Melrose —one after another all
the famous snake-men and showmen
went west, usually by tiger-snake bite.
And if these men and women habitually
playing with snakes were asking for
trouble—as certainly young Maguire
was when “in an act of drunken
bravado” he draped a handful of tiger-
snakes round his neck and was
promptly bitten by six of them —it is
small consolation: a snake is a very
nasty customer.
True, since Eric Worrall and his
confreres have begun collecting tiger-
snakes and taipans for the Common-
wealth Serum Laboratories to develop
their antivenenes, it is not so necessary
to die of snakebite as it used to be.
George Cann, now curator of Taronga
Park’s reptiles, has survived over 400
bites, and Worrall himself is fairly regu-
larly tapped, chewed and punctured.
But still, you need to have the anti-
dote with you, and plenty of it, or not
too far away in the nearest hospital;
and if, as Worrall shows, you are
mutton-birding on Chappell Island and
putting your arms down the burrows
which the tiger-snakes share with the
young birds, that is not always easy.
On the whole it seems best, as
Worrall advises, when you see a snake
to walk quietly the other way. The
really horrifying thing about them is
the rapidity with which, in most
instances, the venom gets to work; and
the only vague consolation to be
derived from Worrall’s account of
them is that, contrary to popular
legend, they do always die (from
internal injuries) when you run your
car over them, and there is no need to
skid the wheels. However, as they


A FAMOUS FREE BOOKLIST SERVICE
0 Over 2,0Q0 people receive the Free Booklists from MARY MARTIN
BOOKSHOP every month. It is a unique service in Australia. It is
wonderful for country people who find it difficult to keep in touch
with books: it is a boon to mothers too busy for bookbuying expeditions:
it is the ideal scheme for the overworked doctor, dentist, bank official,
business man.
0 It’s amazing—not only people in New Guinea, Fiji, North Queensland,
but also people who work in the heart of Martin Place, Sydney, find
it pays them to do their bookbuying in the dreamy little provincial city
of Adelaide.
EACH MONTH YOU RECEIVE:
(I) PAPERBACKS LISTS
A complete catalogue o£ all new Penguin,
Pan, Fontana, and other series.
(II) SPECIAL BARGAIN LIST
We specialise in “remainders.” Our
clients get enormous fun from our special
bargains. They often acquire treasures
which amply repay the bother of buying
books in distant Adelaide.
(III) NEW BOOK CATALOGUE
Our own booklists give news of all pub-
lications just out. Unconventional and
human, the lists are anything but high-
pressure in approach. You’ll find them
quite amusing reading.
(IV) “BOOKGUIDE” MAGAZINE
This illustrated and excellent British
periodical is distributed free to our
devoted clients. But as it bumps up our
postage costs you contribute 7/S per year
if you would like to receive it.
Apply NOW to be placed on our mailing list.
Send 7/6 only if you want to receive “Bookguide” in addition to our free monthly lists.
If you are ever in Adelaide, don’t fail to visit us in our beautiful air-conditioned shop.
MARY MARTIN BOOKSHOP
Da Costa Building (First Floor), Gawler Place,
ADELAIDE
would still probably be alive enough
to take a peck at you, it might be best
not to get out and argue the point.
Worrall is, of course, the famous
snake-man who wrote “Dangerous
Snakes of Australia” and who keeps
a collection of his pets near Gosford,
N. S. Wales. His book, not particu-
larly well written but disarming in its
love of Nature and full of fascinating
information, is a lively, knockabout
account of hunting buffaloes, crocodiles
and cave-paintings in the Northern
Territory with Roland Robinson and
Bill Harney; catching taipans in
Queensland; mutton-birding in Bass
Strait; catching and breeding the small
indigenous fish from the tropical rivers;
plunging down wild gorges for pythons;
and, in a singularly gruesome and
rewarding chapter, sharing the pleasures
of Tom O’Neill, the farmer of Kin-
cumber who pulls funnel-web spiders
out of their holes and lets them run
over his hands . . .
Crook Cops
Dedicated to a member of the N.S.W.
Cabinet, none less than Billy Sheahan,
Q.C., and written by Vince Kelly, The
Greedy Ones (Angus and Robertson)
must be a bit of a shock for the police-
department which provided Kelly with
the material for his real-life detective
book, “The Shadow.” In this new
book, a fiction-thriller, the two main
characters are a pair of crooked detec-
tives; they bash, stand-over, take bribes
and frame.
As the story opens they are trying
to get a girl sacked from her job in
a store so that, by being constantly
deprived of work, and having to keep
her ageing and drunken professor-
father, she may yield to the vile solici-
tations of a millionaire sports-promoter.
That an Australian millionaire may
seem a little old-fashioned acting in
this manner doesn’t escape the
detective: —
“It seems cheap, damn’ fool melo-
drama to me, Ted. Why don’t you
try her out with a mink coat?”
But evidently the millionaire has
thought of this: “Miss Lukiss is not
that sort.” Nor does the millionaire
approve the suggestion of planting a
theft of store-goods on her —she would
be “branded for life.” The reader finds
himself sympathising with the difficul-
ties of millionaires; evidently, seducing
the working-girl isn’t as easy as it
looks.
At the same time, one is made to
see that millionaires can afford melo-
drama: take the most learned, the
quietest and most studious of men,
give him a million pounds, enough to
satisfy his most secret desires, and
what would you get, even in inverse
ratio to his experience of life? Melo-
drama! That is proved by the kind of
fiction he escapes into.
So one need not even look too coldly
upon Kelly’s other rich man. a leader
of society who runs a nightclub to
attract beautiful girls to his evil designs,
especially as it all leads to the society-
man’s wife being murdered while he
is at the nightclub and she is at home
entertaining a charming clergyman.
The detectives go after two burglars
who happened to be in the house,
shooting, at the time of the old lady's
demise; and in resentment of this
intrusion into his private affairs, and of
the detectives’ obvious intention of
doing him over, one of the burglars, a
really nice chap, a member of the
Waterside Workers’ Union and a
champion boxer, breaks the arm of
one detective and half-kills the other.
There are good cops to offset the bad
ones, and there is a good fake-wrestler
and his manager; but altogether there
is a little too much of the “little did
they know.” Kelly has yet to make the
crossing from the simple true-life nar-
rative (which the extraordinary career
of Constable Chuck made possible) to
the world of detective-fiction where
plot and dialogue are planned and
smoothed to an aesthetic, and not a
true-life, unity.
Reviewed Briefly
The Fire Trap: Owen Cameron
(Hammond). A touch of authenticity
in the mountain-forest setting and the
American folk who inhabit it gives this
mystery some freshness of interest.
Though it is sufficiently entertaining as
a murder-story, there are hints that a
much richer tale could have been made
of it.
• * * *
Canton Airlift: Andrew Geer (Col-
lins). A vigorous and exciting story
of business-intrigue, adventure and
violence during the last days of the
civil war in China. It is more about
situations created by the hostilities than
about the war itself and it should be
particularly interesting to those who
understand the hazards and excite-
ments of aviation.
* * * *
The Rum Go: Claude (Faber). A
young, bespectacled confidential steno-
grapher in war-time Alexandria Harbor,
in between doing shorthand for the
“Senior Man,” accompanies him on
inspection-trips to the rum storehouse.
There is a mildly interesting love-affair
with the local M.O.’s offsider, and an
engaging picture of a party of V.I.P.s
blissfully snoring beneath a row of
rum-casks. For the most part whim-
sical rather than humorous.


MARS Machine
Mfg. Co.
Pty. Ltd.
announce their New Associations with
World-leading Overseas Companies
• • •
Sole Australian Manufacturing Licensees for —
WALKER PROCESS EQUIPMENT
INC. OF AMERICA
designers of Water, Waste and Sewage Treatment Equipment
Full range now available - Wholly Manufactured in Australia
• • •
Sole Australian Distributors for —
GRIFFIN WELLPOINT
CORP. OF AMERICA
Leading Specialists in Wellpoint Dewatering, Electro-Osmosis and
Vacuum Stabilisation of Gravels, Sands and Silts,
Pile and Caisson Jetting
• • •
Sole Australian Distributors for —
GRANOLA PLASTIC METALLIC GLAND PACKING
One size packing for any size of gland - 3 grades for any application
Temperatures 0-500° F - Pressures to 1800 p.s.L
• • •
Sole Queensland Distributors of
BOHLER ALLOY & TOOL STEELS
• C •
Queensland Manufacturing Licensees for
THE FULL RANGE OF MEEHANITE ALLOY HIGH DUTY IRONS
MARS MACHINE TOOL MFG
CO. PTY. LTD. f
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
