

The Bulletin
WRITERS’ WORKSHOP -page 34
Wednesday, February 12, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"He'd still be with us if that lion hadn't sneezed in the middle of the act."


ItOOKHUNTFIi, Box 2671, G.P.0.,, Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, bistory, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful
The Red Page
MAORI VOYAGERS
I know something about boats —not
much, but sufficient to be able to
differentiate between a marlinspike and
a boathook- —so I found Ancient
Voyagers in the Pacific, by Andrew
Sharp, the most interesting amongst a
recent batch of Penguins.
Sharp is a New Zealander, a Rhodes
Scholar who has served as an External
Affairs officer for the N.Z. Govern-
ment at home and abroad and in that
capacity became interested in the
puzzle of the amazing spread of the
Polynesians over the Pacific.
The traditional view is that the
island groups of that mighty ocean were
progressively discovered and populated
by resolute voyagers who, like
Columbus, Drake, Cook, Magellan and
suchlike inspired heroes, deliberately
set out on their desperate ventures into
uncharted waters in fulfilment of a
dream of some undiscovered continent
or island. Evidence for this theory is
said to be contained in the myths and
sagas of the Polynesians who sang of
their great captains, their great ships
and their Odysseys much as the
Norwegians sang of their Viking heroes
who discovered Greenland and came
back to tell the story. Maori families
trace their descent back to these
legendary heroes and can recite the
names of the ships they came in, just
as the narrator of the “Song of Roland”
could give the names of the swords
and chargers of the knights who .smote
the Paynirn in battles which never
happened.
Much to my disappointment, Sharp
discounts the Odysseus theory and
brings a wealth of evidence to bolster
up his counter-theory which the present
writer, having some knowledge ~of the
art of sailing, both of European-rigged
craft and the native vessels, has to
admit is difficult to gainsay.
Sharp’s theory is that the island
groups, sometimes thousands of miles
from one another, were populated by
accidental voyagers. These accidental
voyagers may, perchance, have set out
to visit some known island 150 or 300
miles behind the skyline, or merely
went out on a local fishing expedition.
They didn’t say, with Ulysses, “I
cannot rest from travel, I must drink
Life to the lees”; they were simply
blown off course by an unseasonable
gale, or they were carried awry by a
drift to leeward caused by an unseen
current; and as they were utterly
incapable of beating to windward, and
if they had been would not have known
where to beat for, they were as hope-
lessly lost in the immensity of ocean
as if they had been dropped on it from
another planet.
The Polynesians were acute
observers, and they had considerable
knowledge of the stars, the winds and
ocean currents, and it was this that
enabled them to take short voyages to
and from adjacent islands, but this
knowledge was useless to them, inffaet.
deceptive, so long as they could not fix
their position; and they had no means
of fixing their position, since they had
no navigational instruments whatever.
The Vikings who discovered Iceland
and Greenland had the lice on their
bodies which they noticed always
pointed in one direction, but even this
would be of no advantage if they had
drifted off their course without knowing
they had done so.
Thus the Polynesians would be
compelled to continue sailing as close
to the wind as their craft could make it
but getting steadily further and further
from their objective, until they died of
thirst and starvation; unless, of course,
they hit on the Marquesas, Taumotus,
Australs, New Zealand or Easter
Island. As they would not have the
foggiest notion of where they were and
only a memory of where they came
from, they would settle down and culti-
vate the soil and propagate their kind
and devour one another, and the only
thing they would have in common with
the kinsmen they had left behind them
would be their traditions and their
culture; and in due. course their poets
would start inventing sagas to explain
how they got there.
The present writer has observed this
in little. He used to watch the
djukongs set out on the land-breeze
from Java, thousands of them, their
outriggers skipping the water and their
triangular sails gently swaying like
women with their arms akimbo. Before
the wind they flew like swallows. Every
evening they returned on the sea-
breeze with their loads of fish as
regularly as clockwork; but if the sea-
breeze failed, which it did on
occasion, the whole bang lot would be
landed on adjacent islands. Some of
them never came back, their owners
possibly finding their new habitat more
delectable than their own land,
especially if it happened to be Bali,
whose women are known to be particu-
larly charming.
It might be objected that, while it is
conceivable that a large island t>r pair
of islands like New Zealand could have
been hit by accidental settlers who had
been blown off-course while making a
short trip between Tahitian islands,
it is difficult to imagine accidental
voyagers hitting on a tiny speck like
Easter Island, whose nearest neighbor
is a thousand miles to windward.
Professor Macmillan Brown, an old
friend of the present writer, spent six
months on Easter trying to unravel
the mystery of the monstrous sculptures
on an island which supported a few
hundred fishermen, and he was driven
to postulate an immense continent
populated by a master-race whose
aristocracy used Easter as a graveyard
where thousands of slaves quarried,
transported and erected the immense
stone portraits of their masters, a timely
subsidence of the earth’s crust submerg-
mg the continent and its teeming
millions.
It was entrancing to listen to the
professor passionately expounding his
theory in his orange-garden above
Christchurch, but the cold fact remains
that there is no evidence of such a
continent or subsidence, but, according
to Sharp, quite a lot of evidence of
accidental voyagers being washed up
on such remote spots. In fact, one
such occurrence was reported by no
less acute an observer than Captain
Cook when in Tahiti on his last voyage
Speaking of this accidental journey,
Cook said, “This will serve to explain,
better than a thousand conjectures of
speculative reasoners, how the detached
parts of the earth, and, in particular,
how the South Seas, may have been
peopled; especially those that lie
remote from any inhabited continent,
or from each other.”
Cook made inquiries amongst the
Tongans, and found that, while they
had some knowledge of the neighboring
islands and that some had voyaged
amongst the fierce Fijians and some of
them had even come back uneaten, they
had not the slightest knowledge of New
Zealand or other more distant islands,
although there is no doubt that at that
time those islands were thickly
inhabited by their kinsmen. When Coci;
told them of this land which the
romanticists say their ancestors deliber-
ately settled they simply did not believe
him.
Although Sharp deals a sad blow
at Djarni, JLeif Eriksson and the
Wanganui tribal-story of Kupe’s dis-
covery of New Zealand, his story of
these accidental voyagers is even more
exciting. There must have been heroes
amongst them, like Bligh of the Bounty,
whose boat voyage to Timor was in its
way one of the great sea-epics.
M. G. S.
John Grant's Journey
Having watched the biography of
the convict John Grant evolve, as it
were, from a batch of faded papers
which W. S. Hill-Reid accidentally
stumbled across in an old trunk in one
of England’s famous banks, I was
particularly interested to read the Red
Page review by who, if *
identify the initials correctly, knows
(i Continued on page 58)


EXTRA POWER AND TRACTION-
INTERNATIONAL ASW-160 3 TONS
11l
,-V'!
INTERNATIONAL ASW-120 I TON
With INTERNATIONAL ASW-/60 6 ASIV-120
FOUR-WHEEL-DRIVE TRUCKS
Hauling through sand and slush or on emergency operations in the worst off-highway
conditions calls for a rugged four-wheel-drive vehicle. 'When the going is toughest the
big International ASW-160 4 x 4 really comes into its own. The ASW-160’s power-
packed 140 Max. B.H.P. Australian Black Diamond engine driyes through a four-
speed transmission and two speed transfer-case, giving eight forward and two reverse
gears. Front axle drive can be dis-engaged for running on good roads.
The ASW-160 has provision for a power-take-off operated winch, hydraulic hoist or
pump if required, and is available in 154" wheelbase (Payload inc. body weight 9,700
lbs.) and 172" wheelbase (Payload inc. body weight 9,620 lbs.).
Where a lighter four-wheel-drive truck is required, choose the big one-ton
capacity International ASW-120. Fitted with a Utility, Panel Van or
pick-up body, or wooden tray, the ASW-120 offers ample load-space.
With all four wheels geared to her 108 h.p. Australian Black Diamond
Engine, the ASW-120 goes places with unexpected lightweight handling
ease. The ASW-120 operates as a four-wheel-drive or on rear-wheel-drive
only. Belt pulley, power take-off and front mounted winch are attachable,
if required.
Ask your nearest International Harvester office or I.H. Dealer about the
ASW-160 and ASW-120 today. They will show you that the extra power
and traction of International 4x4 Trucks is the answer to your problem.
INTERNATIONAL
FOUR-WHEEL-
DRIVE
TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. FMT . TO /*


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Feb, 12,1958
Vol. 79—No, 4070
The National Australian Newspaper
’"Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
NEW GUINEA
THE Indonesian clamor about West
New Guinea brings the Australian
trust territories back into the limelight
at a moment when Indonesia is in a
state of flux.
New Guinea is becoming more
and more important and more and
more a problem. Finance is not the
least of it, since expenditure on the
territories had grown from a mere
£627,000 in 1938 to something over
£l5 million, of which the Common-
wealth taxpayers find more than two-
thirds. The problem of translating
native primitive culture into Western
terms and developing it and modernis-
ing it to the point of enabling the
inhabitants to assume national charac-
teristics and become a State—one
hopes, ultimately, of the Common-
wealth —bulks very large. It will grow
still larger as more territory comes
under control, more resources are used,
and social services and educational
effort are intensified. At present there
is still an area equal to nearly half of
Victoria to be brought under full
control, though 50 p.c. of that is
described as “under administrative
influence.”
Control, however, represents a some-
what sketchy state of affairs, for outside
the civilised coastal and tableland
areas its chief instrument is only the
patrol-post and associated Native
Affairs and medical- and agricultural-
officers.
Paul Hasluck, Minister for the Terri-
tories, gave a clear picture of the state
of the New Guinea-PapuaTirea in his
symposium before the Summer School
in Canberra, which highlights both its
importance as an experiment in the
making-over of a land of savage humans
(by a method which in these days
reduces bloodshed to a minimum) to
be a potential integral part of the
Australian Commonwealth.
It is larger than the smallest main-
land State; it is more populous than
Queensland and as rich in the basic
materials of soil and water as Queens-
land—if not in minerals, about which
relatively little is as yet known outside
gold. With its high mountains it has
immense water-power, and there is
already some basic work being done
on the harnessing of this, and its
conveyance to turn the wheels at the
great bauxite project in Cape York.
The place is so rich in most kinds
of resources that it cries out for
intensive survey, development of
industry (land and otherwise), and
eventually the carrying of a large popu-
lation. But the obstacles to be over-
come are enormous. Not the least is
that of attracting the necessary capital
from outside without inducing conflict
with the policy of “Papua for the
Papuans,” which is at the root of the
objectives of both the United Nations
and Australia, whether operating in its
original territory of Papua or the trust
territories of old German New Guinea.
The racial problems of local change
and merger are bad enough, for not
only has each small tribe throughout
the mainland of New Guinea and the
islands (stretching down to the northern
Solomons) its own language, but the
racial differences as between tribes are
marked, ranging from the black Bukas
—one of the most intelligent and
teachable of the lot —to the pygmies
of the mountain highlands.
The problems of health are as big.
As Mr. Hasluck remarked, they, in a
comprehensive sense, “present tasks of
a magnitude unknown in a country
such as mainland Australia.” Personal
hygiene and nutrition (which involves
the determination of suitable new
foods and inducing the natives to grow
them) have to be tackled from the
ground upwards. The problem of
eradication of some almost universal
diseases is not only a matter of treat-
ment of the sick but of discovering,
and either exterminating or controlling,
the vectors of the disease, which “can
be a major engineering,” as well as a
medical, task.
In a transition period it is inevitable
that New Guinea must be a socialised
community in a wider sense than would
ever be needed or contemplated on the
Australian continent. In fact, as
Mr. Hasluck pcfinted out, the health
services of New must be, and
are, provided as a gift from the people
of Australia, and the whole Territory
is “in many respects a Welfare State
to a degree that the most optimistic
social planner of the (immediately)
post-war years never contemplated,”
because the great majority of the
population has not the means or
knowledge adequately to care for
itself: —
Somewhere in the progress, how-
ever, means will have to be found
to work-out a more stable relation-
ship between the rendering of
health services and the receiving of
them....To be a viable economic
unit the Territory has to find the
means eventually of sustaining
social services of all kinds.
But how and when the era of self-
dependence will come, and what form
it will take in relation to the economy,
is something that has yet to emerge.
It is good to know that it is taken as
a basic principle that it must emerge.
For while it is all right for the Aus-
tralian taxpayers to keep on pumping
capital-investment for health services
and industrial and economic education
into the islands—over some of which we
hold only a precarious trusteeship—
there must be some guarantee that they
are not also socialising the groundwork
of a system which will make it easy for
the dictators of Indonesia or the Com-
munists to take it over eventually with
the help of U.N. when it comes to
the point of being reasonably self-
supporting.
The defence question is so vital that
Australian and New Guinea interests
can never be divorced. The basic
strategic principles which govern our
security assure that.
The right policy seems to be along
the lines of first bringing the whole
Territory and population under the
rule of law and the influence of
civilisation.
Secondly, the need is to integrate
Australian development with New
Guinea development and encourage
the large-scale inflow of Australian
and British capital, investment to be
on a basis which will ensure that
charters to establish industries in the
Territories go hand-in-hand with a
scheme under which private enterprise
makes some of the tasks now under-
taken by the taxpayers part of the
burden of capital-outlay. This is
normal to large-scale works in remote
places, and it would both lift a little
of the increasing load from the backs
that now bear it and assure that there
be always a separate local public
opinion away from that of the civil
servants, who always, no matter how
excellent, are apt to prove by their
conduct that a flea is good for a dog.
Also, the basic defence policy of
New Guinea should be reviewed in the
light of modem events and conditions.
The permanence of our relationship,
until a voluntary Constitutional associa-
tion between native populations and
ourselves is made possible by increased
civilisation, depends largely on our
military, naval and air strength in the
north and capacity to defend the
Territories, the stepping-stones to
Australia.
That is a matter about which
Governments which bow the knee to
U.N. are apt to be all too coy at times.


"WILL YOU BE TRAVELLING WITH ONE OR BOTH. SIR?"


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Summit issues
The correspondence between Eisenhower
and Bulganin last week shows that while
there is a chance of advocating confer-
ences and then finding excuses for
preventing them and blaming the other
fellow, the Russians will continue to call
for “talks.” Their aim is purely
propaganda—to put forward plans which
will make the unthinking believe that
they are the original inventors of peace,
but which, when examined, are merely
proposals for disarmament of the West.
The contrasting U.S. and Russian pro-
grammes for discussion make interesting
reading. President Eisenhower has eight
cardinal points, Bulganin nine.
The first American one is the
strengthening of U.N. and “the curbing of
the veto-power,” whatever that means.
Neither the U.S. nor Russia would agree
to anything useful in that line, because
each would be afraid of the voting-power
of the other’s bloc of “democracies” —
nearly all of which have dictatorships as
Governments.
The second point is reunification of
Germany through free elections. That
can be ruled-out with Russia at once.
Its idea of a free election is one in which
everybody is free to vote for Commun-
ism—or else.
Next comes “freedom of eastern Euro-
pean countries to choose their own
Governments.”
The Kremlin answered that in Hungary
last year. It is still answering it with
purges and wholesale legalised murders.
President Eisenhower wants an agree-
ment to use the outer space only for
peaceful purposes. The first problem to
solve, on the evidence of loud explo-
sions in the United States, seems to be
•how to use outer space for anything.
The disarmament-points in the pro-
gramme come last, on the very reason-
able basis that good faith must be
assured and that no good faith can be
expected from countries which savage
little countries with Soviet tanks, subsi-
dise subversion, have no freedom of
speech or press or voting, and refuse to
allow civilised international intercourse
and travel either to their own people or
to others who wish to visit Russia.
The military points proposed from
Washington include stoppage of nuclear
tests and bomb-production, progressive
reduction of conventional weapons and
steps to prevent surprise attack.
Bulganin replies that he won’t have an
agenda or prior discussion by Foreign
Ministers, he won’t have anything to do
with reunification of Germany at this
stage ; all he seems to want is disarma-
ment of the West, liquidation of Nato
and easing of Middle East tension, which,
on the trends of Middle Eastern policy,
means handing-over the Arab world to
the tender care of himself and Nasser.
On the whole, his simple plan is summed-
up in a sentence by Lord Hailsham. He
desires to discuss “putting the West at
the mercy of Russia.”
The real question is whether Russia is
ready to renounce international Com-
munism, embrace political freedom and
cease to advance to world-conquest as
it is doing through a “mixture of fear,
force and fraud.” It doesn’t matter to
the outside world whether Russia is a
Socialised State so long as it is an open
State ready to enter the brotherhood of
nations.
Talking should begin at the beginning,
without any set points. The first ques-
tion : Is Russia ready to throw its
frontiers open both to its own citizens
and to those of other countries on the
basis which applies in every country
outside the Communist bloc ?
When that question has been answered
it will be known whether it is worth
while going any further^
At present relationships are only at a
stage where it is world news when the
Russians arriving in the U.S. let the
Americans see the inside of a specially
souped-up and decorated passenger-air-
craft.
Appropriate Flap
Mr. Cahill is to call a conference of
organisations and interests concerned with
housing in N. S. Wales in an attempt to
“muster and engage all forces in a co-
ordinated effort, so that a maximum
output of new homes may be reached in
the shortest possible time.”
Organisations invited to send represen-
tatives include the building industry,
trade-unions, Governmental and semi-
Governmental bodies, gas companies,
insurance companies and banks.
The expressed objective—even though
it, and what accompanied it, sounded
suspiciously like a philological breeze
—is a commendable one, and so is
Mr. Cahill’s conclusion that “it is obvious
that a complete solution cannot be
reached by the Government alone.” It is
strange, however, that it has taken the
N.S.W. Premier until 1958 to reach his
windy-wordy conclusion, which is one
that was obvious in terser terms to most
people outside Government circles a dozen
years ago, when Labor Housing Ministers
were visualising the N.S.W. Housing
Commission as a universal landlord and
Cahill’s predecessor was promising—on
the election platform—that the commis-
sion would build 90,000 houses in three
years.
The Cahill Government, having dis-
covered through its Housing Commission
experience that being a big landlord isn’t
just a matter of sitting back and counting
the rent-money, is now “not concerned
with who builds the houses, so long as
they are built. But finance is still the
main problem.”
Finance has always been the problem
with Mr. Cahill. When he was still
wedded to the idea of the Housing Com-
mission as the principal home-provider
his complaint was that Canberra wouldn’t
give him enough loan-money. Now that
he has accepted the fact that private
home-builders are the major factor he
blames Federal credit policy for lack of
funds. And, having found that this latter
argument finds greater support in the
community than his earlier one did, he’s
determined to play it for all its worth,
particularly as both the Federal Govern-
ment and his own are getting close to the
time when they must face a general elec-
tion.
N.S.W. people would do well to
remember that although tightness of
credit may be part of the reason for the
falling-off in the rate of home-building
throughout the Commonwealth, it has
no bearing on the position of N.S.W. in
relation to the other States. Credit policy
is uniform throughout Australia, and no
action of the Federal Government can
have been responsible for N.S.W. having
the poorest post-war housing record of
all the States. If the blame for that lies on
any Government it can only be the one
led by Mr. Cahill.
Idealism v. Business
[From Melbourne]
Although the uproar in Melbourne
about the future of part of Debney’s
Paddock is merely a local, albeit acrimoni-
ous, issue, there are heartening aspects of
it demonstrating that financial interests
are not always the determining factor in
the votes of boards-of-directors, and that
vested power and authority do not always
have a walkover.
The issue—whether nearly half of the
37 acres of the area should be zoned lor
industrial purposes for 10 years, as
recommended by Dr. Coppel, Q.C., after
he had conducted a board of inquiry—has
split business interests, the non-Labor
party in civic affairs and associations, and
one industrial firm with a lease in the
area has taken an active part in the cam-
paign to have all the industrialists thrown
out.
No motive other than idealism has
been imputed to the opponents of the
proposal to take-over part of the open
space. The inner municipalities of Mel-
bourne, Richmond, Fitzroy, Colling-
wood and Port Melbourne have 5.5 acres
of open land, or proposed parks, to 1000
population, according to an official report
made to the Board of Works, and this is
about two acres too little.
The condition that the land should be
used industrially for a decade only is not
taken overseriously by those who are
opposing the alienation for any length of
time. It is obvious that it could prove an
almost impossible task to move a great
factory without serious dislocation to pro-
duction and employment, and it is, of
course, much simpler to stop its con-
struction.
The Melbourne press is unanimously
on the side of the idealists, and on the
issue has been belting some of its chief
advertisers, who have been retaliating in
print with spirit and effect, indicating
that they have shrewd public-relations
officers or advisers, and, of course, a case.
Melbourne newspapers have always
been ready to support very vigorously
indeed the defenders of parklands against
the covetous ; and in comparatively recent


years have held up to ridicule varied pro-
jects for “using” Royal Park, Albert
Park, Royal Parade, Jolimont Park and
the Fitzroy Gardens and for despoiling
St. Kilda Road.
The nature-lovers, and their press, are,
of course, responsible for the preservation
of the Garden City.
Exit Donald Grant
[From Canberra]
There is little likelihood of the N.S.W.
Labor Executive upsetting its decision not
to endorse veteran Senator Donald Grant
as a runner in the Labor Senate team at
the next Federal elections.
Grant, best remembered as an ex-
LW.W. man who did jail for his
activities and wrote a book about it,
has lodged a protest against his exclusion
from the team which has been picked as
Senator J. J. Arnold, of Newcastle, J. P.
Ormonde, a member of the State
Executive, and Senator S.K. Amour.
Breathing fire and brimstone, Grant
has been particularly riled about the
executive’s action, and has made no secret
of his hostility towards those who made
the selection.
Grounds for Grant’s protest are said
to be that the method of counting the
ballot was “unorthodox,” and that the
executive had failed to give him enough
time to address A.L.P. branches and
leagues.
Donald Grant was elected to the Senate
at the Federal poll in 1943 and entered
the Senate on July 1, 1944. His fiery
speeches sometimes shocked even his
closest colleagues. There will be few
tears in the Senate when he departs.
Jim Ormonde, the newcomer to the
Labor Senate team, is Evatt’s most vocal
supporter on the State Executive. His
place on the ballot —second —ensures his
election, if the N.S.W. executive doesn’t
upset its decision.
There is little chance of that happening.
Slippery Steps
[From Canberra]
The front steps of Parliament House,
Canberra, have been “roughed-up” in
preparation for the Queen Mother’s
visit. Men with jackhammers all last
week chipped little bits from the thick
stonework to ensure that nobody slips
during the series of ceremonials planned
for her Majesty.
Several times the front steps of the
House have been a hazard to members of
Parliament, particularly late at night
when the steps are ill-lit.
Harold Macmillan only last week
encountered the dangers of the slippery
steps during a torrential downpour when
Prime Minister Menzies personally
escorted him into the House under a
large umbrella.
During the Seato Council meeting last
March an official slipped.
Some characters around the House are
asking when action will be taken to
prevent “slips” in the Chamber.
Lawyers and Statesmanship
The Liberals’ choice of Sir Garfield
Barwick, Q.C., to fill the vacancy in the
Parramatta (Federal) seat left empty by
the transfer of Howard Beale to Washing-
ton is a welcome sign of the times.
There has been a change for the better
in the standards of Federal Liberalism
over the past few years, and
though there is little brilliance in the
back-benches on the Government side,
they are full of young men of good
education, sound war-records and means
which enable them to devote themselves
to politics as a profession.
The great pity seems to be that more
use is not made of them, though the
manacles of the Constitution which debar
Ministries from using under-secretary-
ships as a training-ground in the same
way as they are used in the House of
Commons have a good deal to
do with the difficulty. In any case, the
educational and general standards of the
younger side of the Government follow-
ing is like a sun to a rushlight beside the
Opposition, which is rapidly coming to
consist of old or sick men, a rabble with-
out a universal principle among them.
Strangely enough, most of the modern
“Welfare State” thinking is being done
on the Government benches, while men
like Dr. Evatt and Mr. Ward sit opposite
dreaming that they are still in the
Evans-Hughes age, when a Labor
politician had no chance of continuing to
exist as such unless he bowed the knee
to the Communist union-leaders.
These latter still flourish, even though
the Communist-party membership is
dwindling until now Comrades Sharkey
and Dixon are little more than agents
for the distribution of the products of
the Russian and Chinese propaganda-
presses, their own newspapers continuing
to live only by the skin of their teeth.
Most unions and unionists under the
influence of general prosperity are begin-
ning to think more in line with Liberalism.
The spectacle of the coal-unions allowing
incentive-payments is one sign, and,
viewing the general employment situation,
it is amazing that the only unions which
are seriously suffering are those run by
Communist leaders or suffering from the
bottlenecks created by Communist leader-
ship in other unions.
Labor is steadily decaying. For years
it has not acquired a new Parliamentary
personality better than, say, Mr. Dan
Curtin.
On the other hand outstanding men are
being attracted to Liberalism, its last two
recruits being Leslie Bury, an inter-
national banker who gave up a £7OOO-a-
-year job to take the Wentworth seat, and
Barwick, Q.C., who is one of the most
brilliant legal brains ever produced in
Australia and one of the leading Con-
stitutional counsel of the English-speak-
ing world.
That such an advocate should feel
justified in giving-up a very busy Privy
Council practice to devote himself to
politics is like a return of better times.
Parliament has been notably short on
really distinguished lawyers for many
years, and one or two more are especially
needed, with the reform of the Constitu-
tion about to become an issue through the
impending presentation of the report of
the Parliamentary committee which has
been taking evidence for the last year
or so.
Apart from his value as a debater and
a Constitutionalist, the new recruit would
be more than welcome to a Ministry
which is ageing, and in which both the
Treasurer and the Minister for Trade are
not well men. There must inevitably be
retirements and readjustments of port-
folios on a substantial scale in the higher
levels of Cabinet before long.
Much as it is distasteful to a lot of
people, it is a fact that lawyers have
nearly always been the outstanding
politicians in the formative period of Aus-
tralia, with some notable and brilliant
exceptions. It is almost a fact of nature
that when Parliaments become weak in
outstanding lawyers, zest for Constitu-
tional reform and the vigor of the
Legislature both weaken.
Deportment in Banking
The latest development in the savings-
bank war is a decision by the Common-
wealth Bank in Melbourne to give girl
employees lessons in charm.
This is not to help the girls in their
private social life but to boost the bank’s
business. Charm, say the bank bosses,
helps business.
The bank has established a school for
the girls to combat bad habits, fidgeting,
slouching, ungainly posture and casual
manners. They are taught the art of
doing each task efficiently but with a
minimum of tenseness and fatigue.
Mrs. Mary Sticklan, a lecturer with
the Council of Adult Education, gives the
girls practical instruction in correct
deportment and posture and talks on
make-up, dress-sense and the develop-
ment of personality.
Mrs. Sticklan said: “Classes are held
during office-hours, and are attended by
about 25 girls at a time. They are
shown the correct posture and deport-
ment for the different types of work they
do —sitting, standing, bending, stooping,
lifting, carrying and so on, so as to avoid
fatigue and strain.
“Actually, correct posture is one of
the surest ways of slimming,” she said.
“Pounds may be lost, particularly around
the waistline, just by standing properly.”
Mrs. Sticklan, mother of two children,
is a busy housewife in between lecturing.
However, she practises what she preaches
about relaxation.
“I could not cram so much into each
day if I didn’t,” she said.
The private banks have not yet retali-
ated by making their tellers take lessons
in elocution.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
APTNESS of surname doesn’t bob up
very often, so let’s give three
hearty British bawls for the lusty lan
Corker, who, tipping the scales at 151 b.,
is the heaviest baby born in England for
20 years. —“Zake.”
*l* ❖ ❖
“Bicky”: Since canned beer some
thirstier Melbourne types have taken to
pasting tomato-juice labels on cans of
beer to quaff openly at work during dry
spells or with their lunch. In the first
three weeks 1,500,000 cans of beer were
sold in Victoria.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Curio”: Just how long is an hour?
A.B.C.’s Sunday Music Lover’s Hour
conducted by Dr. A. E. Floyd lasts 45
minutes, while the Children’s Hour on
Mondays to Fridays lasts 55 minutes. The
listener short-timed in these two sessions
is recompensed in the Country Hour,
which lasts for 70 minutes Monday to
Thursday and for five more on Friday.
A total of these swings and roundabouts
shows the A.B.C. giving listeners an extra
15 minutes in every 11 hours. No doubt
this is the meaning of the phrase
“redeeming the time.”
❖ <■> ❖
“Tabba”: An English girl I knew in
Adelaide’s Weather Bureau took over the
switchboard one afternoon when the
telephonist was off-duty. She was told
that various departments and outside
bodies would phone-in for rainfall-figures
for the previous 24 hours —all she
had to do was tell them “Nothing at
all.” Which was lucky, since she wanted
to listen to the Test-match broadcast.
With her ear stuck to the radio she was
answering automatically—“ This is the
waterworks.. . .Nothing at all” until
... But how was she to know the police
rang every afternoon to ask what to wear
next day?
❖ ❖
“Clex”: “Ceg’ (B. 15/l/’5B) wants to
know what a witness should call a silent
cop to accord with judicial ignorance of
colloquial phrases. That’s easy. The
case of Commer v. Stratford Carrying
Co., Ltd., is reported in 1934 N.Z.L.R. 551,
and in the first sentence of his judg-
ment the late Sir Michael Myers, C.J.,
said “The appellant says that he did not
notice the respondents’ lorry rounding
the silent policeman, and that when he
did notice it, it had straightened up in the
line of Fenton Street and was across his
bow.” It seems too good to be true,
“Ceg,” but you’ll find it there if you look.
❖ ♦>
“Alpha”: No gargoyles in Sydney (B.
22/1/’58)? Yes. The Roman Catholic
Church in Oxford Street, Newtown
(Sydney), has them. Over sixty years ago
we used to half-believe they could slither
down from the roof and devour bad kids.
“C. Sandy”: If “Doric” wants to see
gargoyles he should take a look at Sydney
University Medical School. There is a
bird overhanging the entrance (which
some of us less intelligent students con-
sidered a bird of ill omen), flanked by
horrible creatures —affording a somewhat
forbidding welcome to the study of the
noble art. The bird caused a pal of mine
to remark “ ‘Quoth the raven never-more’
—when I’m through this course I’ll never
enter the building again.” He died a few
years ago having kept his word.
“Mackville”: The young man sitting
in front of me in the bus jerked a fore-
finger at his mate’s newspaper and
prophesied grimly: “That’ll be you one
of these days if you don’t wake-up to
yourself.” The other grunted, obviously
not amused. I took a sly peek: “Rock
Fisherman Drowned.” There was a
silence. A page turned ; then another.
Abruptly the reader spoke: “That could
be you any time.” I sneaked another
glance: “Young Motor-cyclist Killed.”
Marvellous how we can all see what an
idiot the other bloke is.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Bird”: When my sister asked for
“Gauguin-pink” lipstick, the shop-
assistant looked blank. “Oh,” she said at
last. “You mean Gorgon.”
■A- A
V v V
“Ceg”: The small country town was
unsewered, and the nightman, who always
operated in broad daylight, was coming
down the drive with the fresh utensil on
his shoulder. Usually he is unattended,
but this morning three young children
scampered on ahead of him in a beeline
for Building X. “I see you’ve got some
mates,” said I. “Yes,” he replied, “they’re
me grandchildren, up .here for a holiday;
they like to come on the round with me.”
On completing service of the messuage,
the four of them mounted the humble
tumbril and drove off as happy as Larry.
Why people waste money on going to
Queensland’s Gold Coast beats me.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Roger Mike”: If you want a cuppa
you are expected to bring your own
water in the township of York (W.A.)
served by the Goldfields Water Supply
pipeline. Farmers’ demands are such that
there’s no longer enough water to keep up
the pressure to the higher parts of the
town. Families run a communal bath
early in the morning, and flush their
lavatory-cisterns between 11 p.m. and 7
a.m. only.
❖ ❖ +>
“Roni”: One of the advantages I bet
never occurred to the publishers when the
size of The Bulletin was changed is that
it is much easier to hold while breast-
feeding a baby.
TOUGH GUYS
“New Zealand might become Australia-'* larder
for meat, said retired High Commissioner Lisle
Alderton, but N.Z. suppliers were too soft for
Australians, who were ‘tough when it came to
trade.’ ”
Australia’s meat-supplies were gone,
New Zealand might become our larder.
Said High Commissioner Alderton,
If her suppliers would grow harder.
New Zealanders were far too soft;
Australians were far too tough —
I’ve thought so many a time and oft;
They’re like our meat; that’s tough
enough.
New Zealand, don’t get tough in trade,
Don’t waste time arguing the toss
When tender meat is ready-made —
Send your suppliers themselves across 1
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


THE school-inspector got off tlje
train late at Mulgaville and,
in the bar for a nightcap, was
impressed by the wit with which the
young barmaid parried the risque sallies
of the customers. He absorbed a succes-
sion of nightcaps, staying after the locals
had left, and told the young lady, who
had him classified as a commercial
traveller, stories hot from the city. He
awakened in no mood for breakfast and
lay in till mid-morning before making
his surprise-call on the Mulgaville
school; nor was it surprising that the
Mulgaville school-miss, who worked as
a part-time barmaid at the pub where
she boarded, got an excellent report. —
“Curate’s Egg.”
*3*
“Sunray”: At Eildon Weir on a very
hot day we were looking for somewhere
cool and dustless to have lunch, and in
that raw newness of dirt-roads and new
buildings we saw trees lining a road and
inviting us on, and a signpost. Alas, the
sign read “Rubbish Tip. Honeymoon
Creek.”
♦♦♦ ♦> ❖
“Maitri”: My digestion is still
recovering from the Burns Dinner thrown
by a Sydney Scottish society where the
haggis was borne in by a burly Celt pre-
ceded by a piper and followed by promi-
nent Scots in their barbaric splendor.
The rest of us stood rigidly at attention.
When all had been served, quite a sizeable
lump of the “Great chieftain of the
pudden clan” was carted out to the
kitchen. Of my tablemate, the Toast-
master, I inquired as to its fate. “It’s
split-up among the committee,” he said.
“I’ll take my bit home and have it for
breakfast. It gives an absolutely out-of-
this-world flavor to bacon-and-eggs! ”
❖ * *
“W.P.T.”: Not so long ago the first
chemist to make up a prescription put his
code-mark on it, the code being
“ANTIMSULPH” which represented one
to naught, so that “M.S.” on your
prescription represented ss. 6d. and no l
matter where you took the prescription
for a repeat you would be charged
the same. Lately they seem to have
dropped the code ; the first chemist to
make up the mixture writes the price on
it and thus openly sets the charge for
repeats.
♦3» * <*
“Sister Ellell”: The husband of one of
my patients submitted to the surgeon’s
knife for removal of part of his anatomy,
and made a sufficiently good recovery to
survive the bills when they rolled in.
But he did tell his wife on her arrival
home, “You’d better have a double-
brandy ; we passed the two-hundred-quid
mark today.” She said “As soon as it’s
dark, you’d better nip off down to the
cemetery.” “Have a heart,” he expostu-
lated. “I want to Stay alive for two-
hundred-quid’s worth, not dead.” “Oh,
no,” she said. “I meant, go down and
get one of those glass-dome things they
have for flowers on the grave; if your
exhibit is worth all that much, we’re
going to have it under glass and
constantly on show!”
& &
“Wusslean”: It was interesting to hear
from a visiting American advertising-
expert that outright misrepresentation in
advertisements is on the way out. But
what about Suggestive Illusion? An ad.
in my evening paper announces: “Rush
these Beach Umbrellas —they swivel to
follow the sun!” A moment’s reflection
tells the prudent reader that these big
gamps will not really follow the sun’s
course, like gigantic sunflowers, unless
you keep twisting them around. Still,
now that the poets have given up writing
popular poetry, I suppose someone’s got
to keep it alive.
* ❖ $
“Liewahlo”: Sour cream from a pic-
torial magazine: “TV is not a medium
for radio-actresses accustomed to express-
ing emotion through their voices. TV is
for intelligent, good-looking girls.” And
it’s about time they put some on, if any.
❖
“Bengworden”: One of our prized
hard-cases came into the bar for a heart-
starter following a particularly heavy
night. “Punched old Deadwood and the
sergeant in the club last night,” he
announced. “We’d been having a session ;
it got pretty late and we were all half-
charged. Suddenly that bloody Deadwood
pulled me shirt out of me strides and
poured a middy of beer right down the
inside. I landed him a beauty, then the
sergeant laughed, so I hit him, too.
But here’s the worst part —you can
always bet on the club beer being warm,
but just last night they got the cooler
working properly and our drinks had to
be icy cold!”
* ❖ *
“Ex-R.S.M.”: A friend of mine
travelled across Europe by train. When
the express reached Bulgaria, two young
Army officers entered her compartment.
My friend didn’t know a word of the
language, but she felt (so delicate are
women’s feelings) that the two men were
discussing her, and whether there was any
chance of love-making if one found
another seat, leaving the other to try his
luck. At the next stop my friend got out
to stretch her legs, saw an elderly English-
woman who looked like an experienced
traveller, made known her problem and
asked if there was a vacant seat in the
other woman’s compartment. “Don’t
you be a fool! ” advised the older woman.
“Make them both get out.” She pointed
“If’s me, all right—hut there's something Wrong with the mouth."


to the bookstall. “Just buy a Bulgarian
newspaper, take it back with you, hold
it up and pretend to read it. That’ll do
the trick.” My friend took this advice
and from behind her newspaper she heard
gasps of consternation from the two
officers, followed by a hurried gathering
of luggage and the closing of the com-
partment-door. She had got rid of the
two would-be wolves for ten statinski —
threepence in our money. She found the
same trick was equally effective on the
way to Aleppo.
❖ ❖
“Lorna Doone”: There are three
organisations which I’m sure are in
league against women; some city-
councils, shoe-manufacturers and hosiery-
combines. For the reason that councils
have a preference for small, loose gravel
on footpaths, and it only needs one sharp
piece to enter the peep-toe or sandal, and
ping! it cuts the yarn of the stocking,
and the ladder is well on its way. The
sooner this unhappy liaison is asunder,
the better I’ll be pleased!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Uramao”: The death in Dunedin
Hospital, New Zealand, of “Sarah,” with
“The manuscript of my book on levitation."
101 convictions for drunkenness, elicited
the sympathy of the police, who bought
a wreath and were represented at the
funeral. At the Government boarding-
house, adapting herself to jail-routine,
polishing the floors and repairing the
cops’ clothing, she had won popularity
for her good intentions.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sunray”: This paragraph leaped at
me out of the amended rules of the
Police Regulation Act, 1899, Section XIX,
Uniform:
In the case of Mounted Police.... one
pair of trousers and one pair of khaki
jodhpurs will be supplied in lieu of one
pair of riding breeches. Jodhpurs will not
be worn to or from duty and each member
concerned will have his riding-breeches
available daily at the Police Training
Centre for the performance of any duty
requiring the wearing of breeches. Note
Trousers (two pairs) will be supplied in lieu
of one pair of riding-breeches for perform-
ance of town duty, if desired.
One imagines a Mountie wondering if he
would be justified in arresting a jay-
walker, and concluding, “No; not in
these trousers! ”
❖ ♦> ❖
“An Chuidh”: McGregor’s lassie in
the cartoon needn’t be worried about
Donal’ throwing back the Loch Ness
Monster (B. 22/l/’5B). He would
have to, as it is under the protection of
the Secretary of State for Scotland.
There had been a lot of talk about har-
pooning the monster from speed-boats,
shooting it from the bank, or capturing
it with dragnets or baited hooks ; £20,000
was offered by a circus for its capture.
So the M.P. for
Invernesshire, Si r
Murdoch Mac-
Donald, wrote to
the former Scottish
Secretary of State,
Sir Godfrey Collins,
and police were told
to prevent anyone
harming the
Monster.
* ❖ ❖
“Banba”: A die-
hard old colonel,
determined to ignore
the disloyal efforts
of the Irish to
replace Anglicised
placenames,
addressed a letter to
a now non-existent
Kingstown, Ireland.
The post - office
inscribed the
envelope “Try
Kingstown, Aus-
tralia.” Letter duly
arrived in Australia,
where a helpful
Postal Department
redirected it to
Kingstown, Jamaica.
After its world-tour
the letter was
returned to the
colonel, and did he
blame the Irish?
Oh, no —everyone knew that they were
dumb, but those Australians . . . !
❖ *> ❖
“Jane”: “Alma” (B. 15/If58) reminds
me of an experience six of us women had
in Spain. Having nonchalantly dismissed
a young man soliciting trade for his hotel
some miles out of Granada we were so
surprised to see him when we stopped in
the city square fifteen minutes later that
we accepted his offer of a cheap hotel,
after all. Cheap it was ; sticky white
marks on our skirts soon revealed that the
paint on the walls and doors was still
wet! Then our guide reappeared with
five friends, and seehied offended when
we refused their offer to escort us to the
gipsy-dancing if we paid for the party.
*** *t* <*
“Maitri”: When I arrived at the under-
taker’s premises to attend the funeral of
an old friend, I thought at first I must
have been given the wrong directions:
high up on the outside wall were dis-
played the two well-spaced words “Fun
Parlors.” Closer investigation revealed
that the first word could originally have
been “Funeral,” but evidently weather or
something had erased its second and third
syllables.
A PRINCE OF POLITENESS
“Petitioner said her husband had charm and
-gentlemanly characteristics, but whenever he lost
at the races, which was often, he would come
home and blacken her eyes ."—Divorce report.
He bore high the banners
Of charm and of manners;
If breakfast were late
He'd not even glare at,
Much less loudly swear at,
His conjugal mate.
Elevating his cady
When passing a lady
To him was a rite;
And, looked at quite squarely.
You’d find only rarely
One so damned polite.
He’d one tiny failing;
When books were prevailing
And slow were the mokes,
Instead of abusing
The hoops for his losing
(Like most other blokes),
He’d ease his vexation
With one consolation:
His missus he’d pen,
And fair on her blinkers
He’d fasten two “stinkers."
He’d feel better then.
Yet don’t be supposing
This pleasure of closing
Her lamps would be marked
By conduct ungracious
Or too disputatious
He’d never get narked
In the manner of crude ones,
The unpolite, rude ones.
He’d first satisfy
Urbanity’s pleading,
His delicate breeding,
By asking: “May I?”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ACROSS three-quarters of its front
page Sydney “Sun” splashed the
story of a “beautiful 23-year-old Polish
blonde” for whom her mother, having
come to Australia five months ago and
loving the country, was seeking a suitable
Australian husband. As the daughter
was still in Poland, “for the purposes of
the story, therefore, we will call her
Hedwig—one of her Christian-names,”
the mother fearing reprisals against her
daughter if the story got back to Poland
and the Communists. The story must
have baffled even the keenest minds in
the Polish secret police. All they could
gather as clues were a nice clear photo
of the girl, a detailed description—height,
eye-color, complexion, a “model’s figure,
and looks like a young edition of Ingrid
Bergman”—and such facts as that she
“is a medical graduate now doing a post-
graduate course in dentistry ; is a member
of one of Poland’s leading families ; is an
accomplished singer and pianist, and
nationally famous as a Swimmer, athlete
and skier.” Anonymity ain’t it
wonderful! —“Bo.”
♦♦♦ ♦> • ♦>
“Wusslean”: Office-managers every-
where should be grateful to the London
bank which solved the mystery of the
disappearing paper-clip. In a survey
involving 100,000 clips it found that only
one-fifth were used for clipping papers;
"The bus can Wait, Feathers —tell him We're not hard-up for chips."
14,163 were twisted and broken during
telephone conversations, 19,413 were used
as stakes in card-games, 7200 as make-
shift hooks on suspender-belts and
brassieres, 5434 as toothpicks or ear-
scratchers, 5308 as nail-cleaners and 3916
as pipe-cleaners—the balance being lost,
swept-up, swallowed by small children
and so on. We don’t play card-games in
our office, but as there are several young
ladies I shall know where to look next
time I can’t find a clip to poke through
my pipe.
* ❖
“Canopus”: Lass wanted<*to carry out
Sydney Water Board’s suggestion to save
consumption by putting a brick in the
cistern, so she put a brick in the pan . . .
and it took some time to explain to her
why this didn’t “amount to. the same
thing.”
♦♦♦ * ♦>
“C.W.0.”: The site of Melbourne’s
first telephone-exchange has been
acquired by the Commonwealth Bank.
On a portico facing Flinders Lane you
can see where raised letters have been
chipped off: “Exchange,”,: and under-
neath: “J. Byron Moore Prop.” People
trying to get phones from G.P.O. Prop,
would hardly believe the trouble J. Byron
Moore Prop, had selling them to Mel-
bourne businessmen in 1880.
♦> ❖ <s►
“Zake”: The bloke from over the road
reports telling his missus he’d have to get
some new valves for their bomb, and she
said: “What about those in the old radio
—they might be suitable.”
♦J*
TPALKING of Australian hotels (B.
5/2/’5B), an Englishman touring Aus-
tralia in winter put up at an N.S.W.
country hotel, and came downstairs early
next morning to get warm. At the same
time a rabbit-trapper who had been out
looking at his traps came in at the door,
icicles hanging from his moustache. The
Englishman looked him over pityingly,
and exclaimed: “By jove, old man, what
room did you sleep in?” —“E.L.”
THEY RAN FROM THE W.R.A.N.
I SEE the Navy is again recruiting
W.R.A.N. transport-drivers. Though
these girls did a superb job in World
War 11, they gave us some laughs—
and scares. I was in a Victorian Naval
barracks when a group of them reported
for duty. It was intended that by having
W.R.A.N. drivers more men would be
released for combat-duty. After the girls
were detailed to various trucks, it was
found that one frail little thing had to
handle a dirty big coal-truck. She
certainly freed the former stoker-driver for
combat-duty, but she had to carry a
stoker-passenger to help her turn the
heavy vehicle around corners. But the
best I knew was a girl in Brisbane. A
party of us stokers and a petty-officer
were working on an out-of-town wharf,
pumping oil-fuel from a tanker to a shore
storage-tank. Then a W.R.A.N. arrived
in a utility to convey us back to barracks.
The petty-officer grabbed the seat beside
the girl and we odds-and-sods tumbled
into the back. In a bewildering driving-
feat she put the truck in low gear, revved
like mad, by-passed second gear and
slammed it into top. The ute simply
sprang away.
On a narrow dirt-road she hit the
accelerator, trying to race a steam-engine
to a level-crossing. The apoplectic P.O.
finally gasped out a command to stop. It
was a direct order, so she obliged by
slamming on the brakes. The ute halted
a few yards from the railway-lines as the
locomotive thundered by. Shortly after,
the truck was zipping through a Brisbane
main street. A traffic-cop halted the
vehicle. He approached with a “please
explain” gleam in his eye. She did, speak-
ing with the speed of a machine-gun and
in babydoll tones, The bemused cop
finally waved her on. She was maintain-
ing a modest pace when a Yank Army-
truck flashed by. “So the sons-of-bitches
want a race!” she muttered. Next
moment the ute was after them. We in
the back had made a desperate decision.
She was nearing a corner that led to the
barracks. We decided to leap off the truck
when she slowed-down at the corner.
Unfortunately, the W.R.A.N. knew
nothing about corners; only directions
—north, south, east and west. She
rocketed around the corner in a sputnik
arc and moments later swirled to a stop
at the barracks-gate.
The duty-officer came out. He saw who
the driver was and silently walked to the
front of the vehicle, making mock inspec-
tion of the mudguards, bumper-bar, and
radiator. The W.R.A.N. grew impatient.
“What are you looking for?” He didn’t
bat an eye. “Bloodstains ; legs ; arms —
anything odd!” he replied. She flushed
and her eyes blazed. The officer stepped
aside and signalled her into the barracks.
But before she could get into gear we
six stokers hurtled over the tailboard
into the dust of the road. The petty-
officer catapulted from the passenger-
seat. He was almost gibbering with
terror. We had all realised, at the same
moment, that she was about to pass
between the barrack gate-posts, and with
only 2ft. clearance on each side, and
her in a tearing temper, we reckoned we’d
ridden our luck far enough.
DOLPHIN.


POLITICAL POINTS
Bulganin seems to be in danger of
doing what so many writers have done
before him —writing himself out.
• •
Macmillan the diplomat:
In Sydney: You have the finest city in the
Southern Hemisphere.
In Melbourne: Yours is the greatest city
of the Commonwealth, after London.
Sydneysiders and Melburnites will now
be free to argue whether it’s greatest to be
finest or finest to be greatest.
• •
Announcing his intention to call a
State-wide conference with the aim of
speeding-up the building of homes, N. S.
Wales Premier Cahill .said his Govern-
ment was considering ways and means of
improving the housing position. One
suggestion was that “co-operative build-
ing-societies should be placed under the
control of the Minister of Housing.
Another suggestion is to put all housing
services under the control of the
Minister.” This seems to be an example
of confused thinking. Surely the aim of
the conference is to speed-up building,
not slow it down.
... • •
Two of the five points in a resolution
adopted by the N. S. Wales Labor Council
calling on the Federal Government to
take steps to relieve unemployment seem
a little difficult to reconcile. One demands
the revision of the Japanese trade treaty,
the other the removal of restrictions on
trade with all countries.
• o
Vic. Premier Bolte has been very happy
to admit a Labor charge that the Vic-
torian Housing Commission has built a
steadily decreasing number of houses
since his Government took office. The
reason is that far more houses can be
built by co-operative housing-societies
for the same amount of money, and Bolte
has been channelling it where it brings the
best results. The Housing Commission
is in the running for the award for the
Government authority with the greatest
number of votes of no-confidence.
• •
Mourilyan Harbor, near Innisfail in
North Queensland, is to be developed as
a deep-water port and equipped for the
bulk-handling of sugar, at a cost of £2£
million. At present sugar from the Innis-
fail district is lightered to Cairns, and the
Sugar industry has agreed to accept any
increase in harbor dues that may be
necessary to compensate Cairns for loss
of revenue.
The all-party committee set-up to
review the Federal Constitution hopes to
present its report by August or September.
On the matter of financial relations
between Canberra and the States,
Downer, M.H.R., chairman of the
committee, says that he and his
colleagues have given much thought to
this, but his own view is that the present
Constitution gives ample scope for State
and Federal Treasurers to solve their
differences.
Downer doesn’t think the committee
will be able to reach agreement on any
substantial modifications to Section 92
or the industrial powers of the Common-
wealth, but he is hopeful it may be able
to give positive recommendations on the
procedure for creating new States.
• •
No one can accuse the Cahill Govern-
ment of being unmindful of the great
possibilities for development in N. S.
Wales, or of not making preparations for
the future. It plans during the next two
years to spend £500,000 on extensions to
its jails.
• •
Howard Beale left Sydney last week
in the liner Orsova on his way to
Washington to take up his new post as
Australian Ambassador. He stepped
ashore in Melbourne to hand-over his
departments and then went over to South
Australia to take a last, long, lingering
look at the long-range-weapons project
at Salisbury. Thence to Fremantle to
rejoin the Orsova for London, where
presumably he’ll have a chat with his pre-
decessor S’Percy to get the angles on the
new job before crossing the Atlantic.
Spender has already left Washington to
take up his appointment as Justice of the
International Court at The Hague.
• •
An increase in the price of beer in Bris-
bane has brought forth the usual
prophecies of boycotts and a falling-off of
patronage. Bung isn’t worried. Where
beer is concerned buyer-resistance never
survives the first hot day.
• •
Six former Labor Ministers who lost
their seats when the Labor party split in
1955 will try to make a comeback at the
Victorian State elections in May
(Legislative Assembly) and June
(Legislative Council). Four are standing
on the official Labor ticket and two as
Democratic Labor candidates.
The A.L.P. men are L. W. Galvin,
who was Deputy Premier and Chief
Secretary; J. H. Smith (Minister for
Lands); Sam Merrifield (Minister for
Public Works); and M. J. Gladman
(Assistant Minister). The two D.L.P.
candidates are W. P. Barry, former
Minister for Health, who led the break-
away in 1955 ; and Tom Hayes, former
Minister for Housing.
Galvin is standing for Bendigo, which
he held for 10 years; and Smith is con-
testing Broadmeadows again. Gladman
is trying for Portland. His old seat,
Warrnambool, was eliminated under the
1955 redistribution. Merrifield, who held
the Assembly seat of Moonee Ponds for
10 years, is seeking this time a Legisla-
tive Council seat —Doutta Galla. Barry
will contest Brunswick East and Hayes
Melbourne.
• •
Following the granting to school-
teachers of salary-rises ranging from £4O
to £2OO a year the Victorian Public
Service Association is hopping in smartly
with claims for higher salaries.
Bolte, however, hasn’t been looking
for public servants as desperately as he
has for teachers.
• •
A Sydney columnist, commenting on a
birthday-card posted in November, 1910,
seemed surprised that it carried a
N. S. Wales stamp “lj) years after
Federation.” He shouldn’t have been.
Post-and-telegraph services were trans-
ferred to the Commonwealth on March
1, 1901, but the postage-stamps of the
various States continued to be used. The
first Commonwealth stamps were not
printed until 1911, when uniform postage-
rates were fixed for the whole of Aus-
tralia. Till May 1 of that year differing
rates were charged in the various States.
• •
Wool exports for the six months to
December 31, 1957, were higher than for
the corresponding period of 1956, both in
volume and value. Quantity of wool
shipped increased by 35 million lb. to
661,232,000 lb.; value rose by only £8
million to £208.7 million. Britain was the
biggest buyer, with £44.8 million. Then
came Japan, £38.7 million ; France, £34.2
million ; Italy, £22.9 million ; Germany,
£14.2 million ; Belgium, £11.9 million.
• •
Explaining the significance of the
Benelux Economic Union treaty
signed by the Governments of Belgium,
the Netherlands and Luxembourg on
February 3, the Dutch Government said
the union would establish “a common
market of nearly 21 million people com-
prising the fourth commercial Power in
the world reckoned on the value of
imports and exports.” As a result of this
and earlier treaties there are no Customs
barriers between the countries ; there’s a
low-to-moderate external tariff; practi-
cally all goods can circulate freely inside
the area; the movement of industrial
goods from the three member-States is
virtually unrestricted; capital - move-
ments are virtually free ; labor can take
up employment anywhere in the area,
except for Government positions.
If this is a precursor of the European
Common Market that organisation will
be a formidable economic force.


As was expected, Sir Garfield Barwick
won the Liberal preselection ballot for
the Parramatta seat. There were 11
candidates, and Barwick scored an abso-
lute majority on the first count. Earlier
grumblings that the Q.C. should be
opposed because he didn’t live in the
district and because there were enough
lawyers in Parliament already apparently
didn’t cut much ice with the selection
committee. They listened to all the
candidates and then plumped for Barwick.
• •
There seems to be little likelihood of
the snap Federal election which the
A.L.P. organisers in Sydney are said to
be preparing for. A double-dissolution on
the Banking Bills wouldn’t make sense, as
the Government is in the box-seat for a
normal Senate election in which only 14
of its 30 Senators would have to face the
electors; this means that it has only to
break even at the poll to have a majority
in the new Senate, with a consequent clear
passage for the Banking Bills. A double-
dissolution election could result in
another deadlocked Senate.
Nor would the Government have any-
thing to gain from an early election for
the Reps. After last year’s “holding”
Budget it is generally assumed that there’ll
be tax-concessions in the next one, and
Cabinet wouldn’t be human if it didn’t
decide to accept whatever advantage that
might bring.
Much more likely is the rumor that
tips December 6 or 13 as polling-day. The
Government has every reason to be
optimistic about December elections. It
came to office on December 10, 1949, and
had its last sweeping victory on December
10, 1955.
• •
When Communist E. V. Elliott, Federal
secretary of the Seamen’s Union, was
arrested in Sydney on Friday night on a
charge of drunkenness he was found to
have over £llOO in notes tucked inside
his shirt. He told the police that most
of it was union money and that he was
carrying it for business reasons, which
seems as good a reason as any other for
carrying £llOO inside your shirt.
Elliott, described in press reports as
“a white-haired man” —he used to be one
of the Reds’ white-haired boys—was sub-
sequently released on 10s. bail, his shirtful
of folding-money being restored to him.
He didn’t appear in court next morning
and his bail was forfeited. The next
meeting of the Seamen’s Union should
be interesting.
• *
In Richmond, the pleasantest of Mel-
bourne’s inner industrial suburbs, Town
Clerk Frank Hallet, who had been a
council employee for 51 years, was per-
mitted to leave office without any official
farewell from the ruling A.L.P., presum-
ably because the D.L.P. had extended his
term by two years —reduced to 18 months
when the A.L.P. got control. The Labor
faction-fight in Richmond is one of the
most politically interesting in the nation,
but this was the first hint of office-
bearers suffering, as in hillbilly American
electorates, from changes of government.
The same night the Doc. turned up at
Richmond Town Hall, at a rally that was
not without political significance, to con-
gratulate Cairns, Richmond’s M.H.R., on
gaining his Doctor of Philosophy degree.
The fervent hope of the D.L.P. is that the
Doc will turn up in the same place next
December and make one of his anti-
clerical, pro-Communist speeches.
• •
“Operation Cocoon” is the name given
to a campaign to fumigate 1488 Brisbane
houses at a cost of £145,000. The enemy
is a European borer which has been found
in -some prefabricated timber-houses
imported some years ago. Each house is
enveloped in a gasproof plastic cover
into which methyl-bromide gas is forced
and allowed to remain for 24 hours.
Occupants of the houses are in the mean-
time found accommodation elsewhere.
At the beginning of the operation some
families were kept out of their homes
for three weeks, but it is hoped to reduce
this time to three days.
• •
Having abolished the ward-system in
Sydney City Council elections five years
ago, the N. S. Wales Labor Government
now proposes to restore it for the same
reason that it did away with it —the
perpetuation of Labor control of the
council. In 1953, faced with the possi-
bility that the wrong brand of Labor
men might be elected as aldermen, the
Government wiped-out the wards, reduced
the size of the council from 30 to 20 and
introduced proportional - representation,
To make doubly sure of things the A.L.P.
executive cancelled all nominations and
itself prepared a list of official Labor,
candidates.
Labor retained control of the council,
but p.-r. voting permitted the intrusion
into the council of D.L.P. and Com-
munist aldermen. The latter were
embarrassing enough, but the D.L.P.
blokes were even less acceptable to the
A.L.P. So now it’s to be back to the
wards again—not the same old wards,
but new, as yet undefined, ones, of which
the only thing certain is that their
boundaries will be drawn scientifically to
ensure maximum Labor representation.
• •
“Ben Abo”: The cleverest machina-
tions of its diplomats could never have
achieved for the West what Nasser has
effected by getting himself elected head
of the new Egypto-Syrian Republic. In
an area where nationalistic pride and
hatred burn at fiercer temperatures than
anywhere on earth, it seems certain that
from the moment Nasser assumes his
dictatorial powers over both countries
the seeds of discord will begin to sprout
vigorously. Common prudence must
dictate to the Gyppo President the urgent
need for a limousine built to the model
used by the late “Legs” Diamond for use
when travelling through Syria.
• •
The tourist trade is an important
British industry nowadays. Last year
1,178,800 tourists visited the United
Kingdom —a six-per-cent, improvement
on 1956. America contributed 262,730
Of the trippers and Commonwealth
countries 2f>3,000.
THE TREE OF OFFICE
“We believe that Government is within our reach.”—P. H. Morton, leader of N.S.W.
Opposition.


PERSONAL ITEMS
The latest addition to Westralia’s array
of silk, 54-year-old Gregory James
Boylson, Q.C., has had a mort of
experience in many branches of legal
work since he was admitted to practice in
1928. After court experience in Fremantle
and Perth, he was appointed Deputy
Master of the Supreme Court in 1934.
Six years later he accumulated the posts
of Master, Registrar and Sheriff of the
Supreme Court, Registrar of Companies
in Westralia, and District Registrar of
the High Court of Australia. He was
the High Court’s Registrar of Bank-
ruptcy in W.A. until the Court appointed
its own Registrar last December. In-
between jobs were two short spells as
Commissioner of the Supreme Court,
chairmanship of the clerks’ industrial
board set up by the Westralian Arbitra-
tion Court in 1948, and presidency of the
court for five months later in the year.
• •
“Uramao”: H. J. Simpson, an expert
in silver-work from the College of Art
and Industrial Design, Newcastle-on-
Tyne, has been picked to fill the job of
lecturer in design at the University of
Canterbury (N.Z.).
• •
Major-General H. G. Edgar, C.8.E.,
at present Deputy Chief of the General
Staff, becomes G.O.C.* Southern
Command, with the rank of Lieutenant-
General, next month. He graduated
from Duntroon in 1923, trained in India
and the U.K., and held various senior
technical appointments, including that
of Director of Weapons and Ammuni-
tion, and Deputy Director of Staff
Duties (Equipment), during War 11. He
was G. 5.0.1, Third Division, in 1944-45,
and served in New Guinea and the
Solomons. Since the war he has been
superintendent of the long - range
weapons" establishment at Woomera
(1948), Deputy Director of Staff Duties
at Army H.Q. (1948-49), and after
attending the Imperial Defence College,
London, was . appointed Director' of
Personal Services. He commanded the
Australian Staff College for two years,
then became Director of Staff Duties,
Army H.Q., and was appointed Deputy
Chief of the General Staff in October,
1954 ; since June, 1956, he has been a
member of the Military Board. His
C.B.E. came in the 1955 Birthday
Honors List.
• •
Sketched by Aria soon after his return
to Sydney Hospital (where the Kanematsu
Institute is located), Dr. Malcolm Whyte,
Director of the Institute’s Clinical
Research Department. He’s been attend-
ing a conference in New York, organised
by a drug firm in conjunction with the
New York Academy of Sciences, and
chiefly concerned with a new drug, then
went on to England, where he said hello
to old friends at Oxford, had a look at
the artificial kidney in Sweden, spent a
couple of weeks in India, and so home.
Malcolm Whyte is 37, was born in
India, went to school at Ipswich (Q.),
graduated in medicine from Queensland
University in 1944 (interrupting his
course to pick up a science degree, as
quite a few of the bright boys do), and
was at a paratroop training-centre when
the war ended. Was in Borneo and the
Celebes just after the war, then went to
Queensland University as a lecturer in
physiology for a year or two, then on to
Oxford with a scholarship that took
him through three of the four years he
spent there, working in the Clinical
Medical Research Department. He came
to the Kanematsu Institute in 1952, and
describes his department as a sort of
MEDICAL RESEARCH
working-link between the clinical work
presented by actual cases at Sydney Hos-
pital, and the more fundamental research
being carried on in another department
of the Kanematsu Institute.
Much of his work is concerned with
high blood-pressure, coronary heart-
disease, and kidney-disease. One aspect
of this work is the examination at the
Kanematsu (and at various other research-
centres throughout the world) of a
possible relationship between animal-fats
and heart-disease. The Kanematsu people
are also carrying on field-work in New
Guinea, among a group of natives who
are not troubled by coronary heart-
disease, which is a high-ranking killer in
our community.
The personal history of J. E. (Ted)
England, as set out in the Australian
Who's Who, is as modest as the man. But,
as many Queenslanders and others know,
there is rather more to Ted than that.
War I Digger, Australian Motor Trans-
port (Leatherheads), War II Controller of
Liquid Fuels (he organised petrol-ration-
ing in Australia), secretary to Queensland
Main Roads Commission from its incep-
tion until his retirement a few years ago,
past general president of the Federal
Institute of Accountants, first Queensland
State president of the Australian Society
of Accountants (following amalgamation
of the Federal and Commonwealth Insti-
tutes in 1952), he is also well known in
the musical world as a bass-baritone of
A.B.C. standard —soloist many times at
Brisbane’s City Hall in “Elijah” and other
oratorios. A grand Australian, and a
good fellow with many friends, his main
interest since his retirement is the Brisbane
Grammar Schools (boys and girls), of
which he is chairman of trustees.
• •
F. Peter Johns has joined the head-
office board of the National Mutual Life
Association of A/asia, Ltd. Johns is a
director of several public companies and
is chairman and managing-director of
Johns Waygood Holdings, Ltd.,
structural-steel and lift engineers.
• •
W. Arnold Innes, chairman of the
Cerebos group, is visiting Melbourne.
Cerebos (Australia) Pty., Ltd.’s, new plant
in Dandenong Road, Clayton—an outer
Melbourne suburb —is now entering pro-
duction. It has floor-space of 47,000
square-feet and the latest type of auto-
matic packing machinery. It will pack
salt, gravy salt and other products. Some
of these were formerly imported.
Innes, who lives in Fife, Scotland, but
has his business headquarters in London,
has an international reputation in the
fields of marketing and distribution. He
was chairman of a number of committees
set up by the British Ministry of Food
for distributing essential commodities
during the war. He spends his spare
time collecting for the Imperial Cancer
Research Fund, of which he is governor.
• •
Last year Vic. Parliament approved
legislation appointing a new Aborigines’
Welfare Board. Members of this board
include two aborigines—singer Harold
Blair and Church of Christ Pastor Doug.
Nichols—housing and medical experts, an
anthropologist, and social workers. The
chairman is the assistant Chief Secretary,
Murray Porter. The board has already
achieved some success. Late last year it
ordered bulldozers in to plough-down a
filthy aboriginal shanty-town on the
Mooroopna (north-east Victoria) rubbish-
tip, and it has plans to rehouse the tip
families in decent cottages. Parliament’s
instruction to the new board was to raise
the living-standards of the aborigines by
getting them better housing, education,
and finding them jobs. Board-chairman
Porter admits this is going to be a long
and difficult task. “The most important


thing we have to do is to get the
aborigines to help themselves to win
back their self-respect,” he says. “We
are not going to spoonfeed them. The
trouble in the past has been too much
charity and not enough real encourage-
ment for self-help. We hope to change
that attitude.”
As the first major step in this new-deal
policy for the State’s 1200 aborigines a
young N. S. Wales man will become
Victorian Superintendent of Aborigines’
Welfare. He is P. E. Felton, 28, an
aboriginal-welfare officer stationed at
Dubbo.
The N.S.W. Public Service Board has
agreed to release Felton, who is a 8.A.;
he has also done a social-studies course
at Sydney University. Despite his youth,
Felton has had wide experience in the
field and the administrative branch of
aboriginal-welfare work. His new job
carries a salary range of £1762-£2012.
• •
A Victorian agricultural scientist has
developed a new high-quality baking-
strain of wheat. He is A. R. Raw, senior
geneticist of the State Department of
Agriculture. The new wheat is called
Beacon. The Victorian Director of
Agriculture, P. Ryan, said it was the best
combination of yielding-ability and
baking-quality yet achieved by the depart-
ment’s wheatbreeders.
• •
New Zealand’s senior Trade Commis-
sioner for Australia, R. V. Jackson
(below), arrived here late in January, but
has seen something of Australia before on
various official trips—the latest was just
before Christmas, when he came here
with the military mission. He’s been a
civil servant all his working life, put in
some time in London a few years back —
the N.Z. trade set-up in the U.K., par-
ticularly on the publicity side, is often
spoken of enviously by Australians who
have a special interest in seeing our
export-trade expand—and comes from
N.Z. TRADE
Christchurch. Since 1948 he has lived
in Wellington. Hobbies, gardening and
watching Rugby Union games.
• •
“Maitri”: James Glennon, South Aus-
tralian programme-director for the A.B.C.
since 1953, was born in Victoria but went
to South Australia at the age of 10.
Educated by Christian Brothers in
Adelaide, he began his career as a librarian at
the Adelaide Circulating Library —the South
Australian version of a public lending-library.
He left to go into business, but still keeps in
touch ; he’s been on the library’s governing
committee for 15 years, and has been twice
chairman.
Glennon studied violin, viola and singing,
and gained quite a few first places in all three
subjects at competitions in Melbourne, Brisbane,
Hobart and Adelaide. He was responsible for
the first viola recital ever to be broadcast in
S.A. (the second in the Commonwealth) and
has also broadcast on numerous occasions
throughout Australia as a violinist, violist and
vocalist, as well as playing in various orchestras
under local and overseas conductors.
Music, nevertheless, is but one of his
interests: he has acted in and produced many
plays for the Adelaide Repertory Theatre and for
the Independent and W.E.A. Theatres. Several
of his own one-act plays have been produced in
Sydney and Adelaide, while his radio-plays
have been produced in all Australian States, in
New Zealand and South Africa. Numerous
stories, articles and children’s stories from his
pen have appeared in newspapers and magazines
both here and overseas while, every week, he
reviews classical recordings for the Adelaide
“Sunday Mail.” Time never gets a chance to
hang on Glennon’s hands: wheti he isn’t engaged
on something else, he lectures bn various aspects
of music (including the appreciation of music
and the history of recorded sound) to schools,
colleges and music clubs. Prior to embarking
on his current job as director of programmes,
he was for 13 years Record Librarian for the
South Australian A.B.C. His recently-published
book, Making Friends with Music, is an answer
to the prayers of those engaged in the losing
battle of trying to impart am appreciation of
music to the uninterested young of the
species.
For relaxation, Jim listens to records, reads,
discusses music, books and the best way to make
things grow. Like his wife and son, he’s an
enthusiastic gardener.
• •
On the eve of the opening of the new
Victorian legal year Ewen Wanliss
announced his retirement as an associate
of justices. He is 84, but still blithe and
active. He went to the Boer War, became
Sir Joseph Hood’s associate in 1903, and
was a grazier at Rochester from 1910 to
1920, when he returned to William-street
as A.D.C. and private secretary to Sir
William Irvine, then Lieut.-Governor. He
was also associate to the late Sir James
Macfarlan, and lately has been Mr.
Justice Sholl’s associate. In younger
times Ewen Wanliss was an all-round
sportsman, played senior football, senior
cricket and pennant tennis.
• •
Among the most welcome type of
visitors who drop in from time to time
to remind us that The Bulletin is a
national paper and that all wisdom isn’t
hatched around the Tank Stream and-
Yarra (and that not all who reside in these
crowded parts are either good or wise),
Norman Alexander Braid (herewith), a
wheat-and-sheep man from Koorda, in
the north-eastern wheat-belt of W.A.
Mr. Braid was enthusiastic about what
was being done in W.A. by C.5.1.R.0., the
Department of Agriculture, and the
WHEAT AND SHEEP
Faculty of Agriculture, and mentioned,
particularly, the work of the Reader in
Agronomy, Dr. Millington.
Apropos pastures, he mentioned a
clover, not yet generally released to
farmers in W.A., which will interest a
good many people in low-rainfall parts
of Australia. Bred from barrel-clover,
from a wild clover growing on the
Murchison (W.A.), and from a strain of
clover found in Cyprus, it seeds and sets
in a 4|in. rainfall. About 40 Westralian
farmers will be getting some this year.
The Braid property was selected by
N. A. Braid’s father —a mining-engineer,
with South African and Westralian gold-
fields experience ; his father owned Black
Mount station, Coonabarabran —in 1909.
The Merino flock is not a stud one, but
was founded in 1918 ; rams come from
North Bungaree (S.A.) ‘and a Westralian
Peppin stud, Boolardy.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 72, J. D. Moors, former N.S.W.
Crown Prosecutor. Called to the bar in 1923,
and appointed Crown Prosecutor in 1935.
Served as a captain with the First Battalion,
A.1.F., in World War I.
In Melbourne, at 55, Rev. A. R. Barnett,
minister of Tongala (Vic.) Presbyterian church.
In Adelaide, at 49, George Margitich,
former star Australian Rules full-forward. He
topped the S.A. goalkicking list in 1928 and
1929 before transferring to Melbourne (V.F.L.)
club.
In Perth, at 60, John Nugent Hayward, well-
known radio-actor. He appeared in the film
“The Overlanders.”
In Melbourne, at 59, Robert Norris Parry,
Federal secretary of the Canners’ Union.
In England, at 87, Sir Charles Trevelyan,
brother of G. M. Trevelyan, the historian. He
was the last surviving member of Britain’s firs*
Labor Government 30 years ago.
In Sydney, at 68, Victor Francis Turner,
former Commonwealth Chief Electoral Officer
(1933-54).
In England, at 44, Frank Whitcombe, former
English Rugby League prop-forward. He toured
Australia with the 1946 English team. He was
tipped as a likely tour-manager for this year’s
visiting English side.
In Sydney, at 81, War I veteran John
(“Barney”) Hines. Known in war-days as
“The Souvenir King.”
In Melbourne, well-known businessman
George Frederick Maxted.
In Sydney, Dudley 'Hellmrich, former well-
known swimmer and for years secretary of the
N.S.W. Amateur Swimming Association.


ABORIGINALITIES
/”\NE can hardly credit that fairy-pen-
guins, a mere \\Vo. in weight, could
knock-over a large monument. But at
Gabo Island (Vic.), by undermining the
huge foundation-slab, 6ft. by 6ft., to build
their burrow-nests, the little white-
weskited birds have succeeded in strewing
over the landscape the well-constructed
granite obelisk, 17ft. in height and several
tons in weight, erected 100 years ago to
the memory of those lost in the steamer
Monumental City, wrecked near by in
May, 1853. Today, again, the red-
granite-bound mile-and-a-half-long island
is one massive penguin-rookery, and even
the track from the landing cove across
to the lighthouse is undermined by
burrow-nests. Yet, just after the last war,
when 100 R.A.A.F. and naval personnel
had been stationed there, the numbers of
rock-hoppers were greatly diminished.
Incidentally, the slatey-blue “fairies”
have no traffic-sense whatever. The
wheel-tracks along Gabo’s one road are
lined with flattened penguins, and the
present lightkeepers will not drive a
jeep at night there except in an
emergency. Such a trip would mean the
death of thousands of the little flightless
birds returning home from the sea to
their burrow-nests.—“ Lower Tops’l.”
* # * *
“Nimrod”: The wide open spaces! In
1952 there weren’t half-a-dozen cars in
Wittenoom Gorge (W.A.); now there are
over 100. As a result, this 10-year-old
township on the flanks of the remote
Hamersleys, 1000 road-miles from Perth,
has disallowed parking on the northern
side of its main street.
“Geep”: The more irreverent among
Perth yachtsmen are referring to the
State Governor’s new vessel as the Sick
Pig, It’s hardly cause for Sir Charles
to get his Irish up, for after all he
christened her the Aileen Og.
“Loco”: Having assisted in attempts
to eradicate several large flying-fox
camps in the scrub on the N.S.W. North
Coast, I don’t wonder that the pests need
no protection against mosquitoes (B.
15/l/’5B). No self-respecting mossie
would approach within a mile of these
evil-smelling places.
* * * *
“Burra Mallim”: Wire - rope (B.
22/1/’5B) may be measured by diameter
in Kendinup, but in the naval and mer-
chant fleets of the world it is measured
by circumference. In text- and reference-
books, the formula for finding the safe-
working-load of rope, whether wire,
manila, sisal, hemp or coir, is based on
the circumference. No doubt this formula
can be easily transposed to suit diameter,
but after 30 years of using and ordering
Wire-rope in various parts of the world,
I have yet to see it. I have before me a
docket for wire-rope delivered last
week which states length, construction
and circumference only.
* * * *
“Margaret”: Do any other animals
mourn their dead, as cattle appear to do?
A single beast, on finding a carcass, or
even old bones and hide, raises a rumpus
that brings the rest of the herd, on the
run. The whole mob mill round, pawing
up dust and bellowing and moaning in a
special eerie tone that any cattle-man
recognises at once. Whatever their real
motive may be, the performance irresis-
“Blast the C.S.I.R.O.!"
tibly recalls the scenes of mourning and
lamentation described in the Old Testa-
ment.
* * * *
“Pallamana”: Historic Bradwardine
homestead, standing in its 30-acre estate
in the Bathurst (N.S.W.) district, and
now acquired by All Saints’ College, was
built by Sir Francis Suttor, one of Sir
Henry Parkes’s Cabinet Ministers. The
homestead was the venue of a special
Cabinet - meeting which culminated
in the dissolution of the sitting
Government. Suttor established
noted Arabian-horse and Merino-
sheep studs; the former produced a
line of famous stock-horses, from which
came many of Cobb and Co.’s coach-
horses. R. G. Edgell took over Brad-
wardine in 1906, leading to the develop-
ment of the present big vegetable-
processing industry.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: The old tele-
phone-line leading from the homestead
across the western Riverina plains had
been giving spasmodic trouble for months.
Yet everyone on the . station had
repeatedly ridden the line ; the local lines-
man had repaired it; and even two
P.M.G. experts from Sydney with special
testing-instruments had failed to locate
the fault. The baffling thing was that it
occurred only on hot dry days, never in
the. wet, and it was particularly bad
between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. when the stud-
manager had finished his field-work and
wanted to complete his business on the
phone. Just as the management began
surveying a new line out to civilisation in
the opposite direction —the stud was
losing ram sales —a stockman chanced to
ride on to an earthen tank over which
the line crossed. There he found
hundreds of galahs, which had come in to
drink, perched on the wire. The roseate
birds were weighing it down so much that
the wire went under water and earthed!
* * * *
“Alma”: Add to “Miss M.’s” list (a
22/1 /’5B) the bloke who rings up the
vet. to advise mournfully that “me
sheep are dyin’ on me.”
* * * *
“Sawtell”: I had been warned that the
old rifle not only threw to one side,
but also “snigged” as many as three
times; but in countless shots at crows it
had behaved admirably. Then, when
an almost exhausted hare eluded the
dogs and crept into the orchard, present-
ing a sitting shot, the confounded rifle
gave two futile clicks and allowed the
hare to escape. Since then the rifle has
been perfect. A fatalist, I’ve convinced
myself that that hare must have been
too ’old and tough for the pot.
• * * #
“Swelpme”: Unlike most New Aus-
tralians, Swedes find no difficulty in
obeying our keep-to-the-left regulation,
for Swedish traffic, despite the views of
most European countries, keeps to the


ifJtu., H&ZZ (T is
_ tr
f/\oe OH€ of My /V£W (io\eL


left. The regulation is as old as Swedish
trave l—possibly it was the Norsemen
who introduced the left-hand rule in
England—yet Sweden, so modern and
efficient in most things, still seats the
driver in the same position as in ancient
times: on the left-hand side. Car-drivers
in Sweden, unable to see the road ahead
when overtaking, like a passenger as a
lookout on the right-hand side, a seat that
has become known throughout the
country as “the ninety-per-cent, seat,”
statistics having proved that in that pro-
portion of car-accidents the occupant
of that seat received the worst injuries
in 90 per cent, of accidents. Yet right-
hand-drive cars will not sell in Sweden,
the argument being that they would have
no resale value. The danger of the
anomaly is freely admitted, but referenda
to change the regulation and make the
right-hand-drive compulsory have all
been defeated. No wonder Big Snow,
our Swedish truck-driver, grins broadty
„ v «L u •
a J .. y b PPy m
u ra ia '
* * * *
“Mique”: It’s easier for a cuckoo to
park its eggs in a robin’s nest than in a
“Give us a price.”
blue wren’s, which is built with a down-
ward angle; yet I’ve seen several of the
big brutes filling such nests while the
mother wren dung to a piece of the reed-
n«.in B^lff„ a hl.To m!. r n ?J° me
nesting-sites, undole to entejr tne nest*
° ’
* * * *
“Spin”: I know it’s the accepted theory
that the rabbits in W.A. are descended
from those that crossed the Nullarbor,
and I’m not out to question that (B.
1/1 / ’5B), but there’s a point that baffles
me. The early settlers in the big State
tried hard to breed from rabbits brought
from England, but for some reason or
other bunny wouldn’t become acclima-
tised, and 50 years after the founding of
the colony there probably wasn’t a rabbit
in the State ; or, if there were, then the
Nullarbor travellers weren’t the pioneers
it’s claimed they are. On the other hand,
if they were, how did they manage to
thrive where their predecessors died?
D<mt tell me they were already acchma-
Usedl; rabbits which could stand the trip
™t from England m a satlmg-boat shou d
relished the conditions in sou-
Westralia.
* * * *
.
“Bass”: Magpies arent the only birds
with a sense of humor (B. 8/1/ 58). Ive
seen . a kookaburra fly up behind a
roosting mate and hang from his tail-
feathers, and I think that just about gives
J? im a stranglehold, because when a bird
fastens*® to a bough and sinks back on
its hocks, the talons ock in a grip that s
onl y loosened when the bird straightens-
“Pn Fr T ? m the Wa /, the T f bird
hollers Ive assumed it cant release its
grip until the jokester tires. But for
calculated fun I’ll nominate galahs
skidding down a steep-pitched roof.
When a flock take turns coming down
the ridge-capping you can’t be in any
doubt that they’re enjoying a huge joke.
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Amid more talk of
“cargo cults” and the discipline of the
Pacific Islands Regiment, a quiet revolu-
ti i$ taking place in New Guinea in
another direction. The subject of the
•i , r * • j *, t. j
rights of women has raised its head,
something like half-a-century after it
was the cause of so much bitterness in
Britain. District sub-committees have
been appointed throughout the Territory
to promote the advancement of women
as part of the official policy to check the
present unbalanced rate of educational
advancement between men and women,
Red Cross and girl-guide groups are
helping, and there are classes in cooking,
sewing and child-welfare.
“Kelms”: How long does it take for
a distinctive flora to become established?
The scrub and timber throughout south-
western Australia is what botanists call
pyrophilous—i.e., it loves fires, at least
to the extent that bush which isn’t fired
every few years deteriorates noticeably.
In many species the seeds are released
from the woody fruits only after a fire,
and in others the seeds will germinate
only after they’ve been scorched, while
many trees are supplied with dormant
buds which take over when the rest of
the tree is scorched. So whether or not
the flora likes fire, at least it has learnt to
endure it and cope with it, and I’m
wondering how long it took to learn.
Probably ever since they arrived in this
country the aborigines have used fire
to drive game into ambush, but the
natives’ controlled burning can only have
extended over the last 25,000 to 30,000
years, so it would seem that the pyrophi-
lous attributes have been developed only
during that period—which isn’t very long,
evolutionarily _ speaking.
THE NORTH
/ love to follow the white road, half
unseen,
Sunk into tidal waves of strident green,
Plunging in chapel gloom or brassy sun
Crossed by the rail-tracks where the cane-
trucks run; ,
Lolloping round where the cane stands
thick and high
In emerald waves like an ocean on the
sky,
Where a freckled few on the fringe of
the forest cool
Take their barefoot track to the pint-
sized country school.
I love the houses on their spindle stilts
And the lace at the edge of the roof
where the shade-tree tilts,
And the scarlet buds that the poincianas
spatter
From luscious boughs where metallic
starlings chatter.
Where the dust swirls up and garlands the
traveller
With dust-rimmed eyes and a tortured
mat of hair,
And dogs allowed to lie and dream all
day
Swish lazy tails to urge the flies away.
Where pawpaws and a mop of green
bananas
Stand like a symbol at the side verandas,
And mothers dressed in florals from the
store
Stand broodingly within an open door,
Fanning the breeze from breathless after-
noons
Into the stagnant brownness *of their
rooms,
Or fasten tendrils of plumbago blue
For want of something else to think or do.
A.C.T.
JOAN STEEGE.


THAT progressive piggery “Mackville”
speaks of (B. 8/l/’5B) is a good idea,
but a chap in S.A. is designing one much
more modern. His pigs will move along
past the different troughs of feed on an
endless belt on the assembly-line idea
till they reach the slaughter-shed and
processing-room. Then there will be two
belts, one to take the pork to the small-
goods room, where the cellophane-
wrapped chops are packed, the other to
take the hides to the leather-goods factory.
These departments have a reversing-gear,
and if the inspector finds the finished
goods not up to standard he simply
reverses the assembly-lines and the pigs
go back to the finishing-pens for another
fortnight on crushed barley. —“P.C.M.”
• • * *
“Nimrod”: “O’ course them abos. in
the Warburtons is skinny,” argued
Squinter, “but it’s nothing to do with
their tucker. It’s because of the size of
the trees. The further inland you go the
narrower the mulgas get, and the
narrower they are the less shade there is.
Out there in the middle of the day the
sun cooks up everything that’s in it.
Consequently only the skinny ones is left;
the others is all fried up to nothing or
frizzled down to size!”
* » * *
“Miss M”: Our pine-year-old’s scale-
model of a William Allchin steam
traction-engine brought back memories.
To his grandfather it recalled the first
time he saw power-farming, in England
during World War I. Traction-engines
were too heavy (9i tons) to be driven
about the fields, so two were stationed,
one on each side of a field. The plough
was attached to the centre of a long
cable, each end of which ran round a
drum on a traction-engine. The two
engines, alternately winding-in the cable,
pulled the plough back and forth across
the field. To Dad, the little model
recalled a typically Australian incident
during his outback childhood. The
station mechanic, having taken the steam-
tractor to the lagoon for water, bogged
it so thoroughly that two bullock-teams
barely pulled it out —and the boss out-
swore both the bullockies.
• * * «
“Sevenelms”: For the up-river tobacco-
estate the spacious days of five white
assistants, boom-prices for wrapper-leaf,
and year-end bonuses for all had gone.
The Dutch manager, on reduced salary
(now the only European), was dissembling
the plant for sale and having trouble
adjusting his c.-0.-l. to his altered circum-
stances. From his accountant in Sanda-
kan he had a letter expressing alarm at his
increasing overdraft and enclosing a list
of the nine English and seven American
periodicals to which the manager sub-
scribed with a suggestion that at least this
extravagance could be curtailed. The
Dutchman pored worriedly over this list
and the accountant got it back by next
launch. Abnegatory decision had been
reached and a bold pen-stroke had
eliminated “The Light-car Monthly.”
* * * *
“Mcßoy”: At the opening of our hall
Old Hans, owner of the one-and-only
piano in the district, stood by for three
solid hours watching his young nephew
pounding the keys. At last he joined his
cronies in some light refreshments.
During his absence the committee decided
on a raffle, with the piano as prize, to
help the hall-funds. Tickets were selling
like free-beers when Hans got wind of
it. Spluttering with rage he came through
the door like a battering-ram ... It
took half the committee to cajole him
outside again, where the chairman ex-
plained that the winning ticket had been
made out in Hans’s name and that the
piano would be returned to its legal
home the next morning.
BIRDS AS FIRE-RAISERS
T\R. MAURICE BURTON, an English
zoologist with a taste for the bizarre,
has been enjoying himself in finding the
legend of the phoenix to be based on
fact.
He got his start in the matter from a
jay that made a habit of rubbing burning
cigarette-butts upon itself, and from two
rooks that went one better by “bathing”
in flames, these practices being, appar-
ently, an extension of the queer habit of
some birds (in various countries) of
anointing themselves with ants and other
caustic materials.
Burton began then to wonder whether
there was any substance in old reports
of birds setting houses afire —as, for
example, one dated 1203 to the effect that
many houses in London were destroyed
through birds alighting on them with
burning coals in their beaks ; and from
that he went on to meditate on the legend
of the phoenix—the fabulous bird which,
while singing among the aromatic plants
of its nest, was consumed by fire, after
which a new phoenix arose from the ashes
and was escorted to the gates of Paradise
by a vast concourse of birds of various
kinds.
Parts of this tale, Burton concedes, are
merely trimmings, but he thinks it pretty
certain that the ancients did in fact learn
that birds sometimes set fire to their nests
and even to buildings, so giving rise to
the legend of the phoenix.
His trouble (as stated in his recent
book, Animal Legends) is that he can’t
gain positive evidence —only the hearty
old tales plus strong suspicions on the
part of modern firemen. Well, we in
Australia can help him out.
According to a report given me some
years ago, when a cricket-match was in
progress near Gulgong (N.S.W.) during a
hot and dry period, a spectator threw
away a cigarette-butt, upon which a
diamond-sparrow (spotted-sided finch)
flew down, picked up the butt, and then
adjourned to her nest; and, because the
aerial journey fanned the cigarette into
life, the grassy nest was set blazing at
once, with the result that portions
dropped to the ground and started a
bushfire.
A second case of the kind in my records
is one in which a fisherman tossed a
cigarette-butt on to the bank of a stream,
whereupon a kingfisher swooped down,
souvenired the butt, and returned to its
perch, there holding the trophy a while
before dropping it. The youthful teller
of this tale reckoned that it “looked
very funny to see a kingfisher smoking.”
A. H. C.


OPES
of Every Type
and Size
Famous for many
years as Queensland’s
premier manufacturers
of envelopes we pro-
duce the well known—
“JAXUL” PATENT
CLEAR - FACE WIN-
DOW Envelopes in
sizes 5f ins. x 3£ ins.,
6| x 3f and 9 ins. x
4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED En-
velopes in all sizes,
No. 1 to No. 8.
Plain or Printed
COMMERCIAL En-
velopes in all standard
sizes and qualities,
plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application
m
lockson &
O’Sullivan pt,.ud.
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers <& Printers
304-1106 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Business, Robbery, Etc.
STILL A "MIXED BAG"
T ATEST “Treasury Informa-
tion Bulletin” from Can-
berra, issued on January 31,
supports the view expressed in
B. 22/1/’5B that “economic
developments continue to open-
up as a mixed bag,” and that,
“altogether, 1958 has opened
hesitatingly, and will call for
careful watching as it unfolds
further.”
The “Treasury Information
Bulletin” covers the six months
to December 31 or the five
months to November 31.
Even the longer period can
hardly be regarded as a guide
to the Australian fiscal year
1957-58. It is the second half,
January-June (now current),
that is likely to be the more
significant.
During the six months to
December 31 the wool-cheque
was 3.7 p.c. lower from 8.8 p.c.
more wool sold than in the
same half of the previous
season. Average value of
greasy wool was B|d. a pound
lower at 68d. The decline is at
present more pronounced than
that, and there is less wool
remaining to be sold this half-
year.
The full effect of the recent
drought may not be realised
until the new clip is shorn.
The position of most other
export commodities is similar
to that of wool, with some
notable exceptions. Wheat and
flour, butter and other dairy
products, and base metals, were
down —in some cases heavily
down —in the past six months.
On the other hand meat exports
increased in quantity and value
against a falling price-level
and sugar exports rose in
volume and price, as did ship-
ments of iron and steel.
But the wool - shipments
usually represent about half
of our export-income, and their
influence during the next six
months is likely to become
much more pronounced. So
much so that an adverse
balance of £37 million in our
{international current account
in July-Dee. is threatening to
be considerably worse in Jan.-
June.
Employment
IN December there were
58,853 registered
unemployed, an increase of
20,942 compared with a year
earlier. The number of
employed persons showed little
change over the year, but
women seem to be finding
employment easier to get than
men.
The Federal Treasury esti-
mates that between June, 1956,
and June, 1957, the money at
the disposal of the public—
notes and coins in the hands of
the public and deposits of the
public with the various banks
—increased by 6.6 p.c. In the
six months to December, 1957,
the money-supply is provision-
ally estimated to have
“increased substantially,” but
not at the same rate as in the
year 1956-57.
Industrial Production
TPHE effect of these general
economic conditions, as
well as more particular circum-
stances, can be seen in this list
of increases and decreases in
industrial production during the
five months July to November
(comparisons are with the
same period of the preceding
year):—
Per cent.
Basic Materials and Power —
Black coal +0.2
Brown coal .. .. 1.3
Pig-iron .. .. .. .. +11.9
Ingot steel +14.7
Metallurgical coke .. .. +1.3
Electricity +8.4
Gas +4.8
Building Materials —
Clay bricks .. .... +9.7
Portland cement .. .. +4.7
Tiles —cement +lO.l
terra-cotta .. .. +l.l
Cement building-sheets .. +B-7
Fibrous plaster-sheets .. +5.9
Hardboard +12.6
Consumer Durables —
Refrigerators —12.9
Washing-machines .. .. +22.6
Vacuum-cleaners .. .. +30.7
Radios 6.3
Radiograms +33.4
Yarns and Textiles—
Yarn —cotton +6.8
worsted .. .. 8.7
woollen .. .. +12.3
Towels +21.1
Broad-woven cotton cloth 1.8
Blankets +21.9
Other Goods —
Tobacco, cigars and
cigarettes +1.5
Beer .. +3.3
Ice-cream +3.9
Ready-mixed paint and
enamels + 6.2
Lacquers .. +12.3
Newsprint +2.1
Superphosphate .. .. +28.6
Motor-tyres +1.9
Electric motors (fractional
h.p.) +16.6
Electric motors (other) .. + 6 J
Floor-coverings .. .. +9.5
In the controversial building
industry, both new houses
commenced and completed
were greater in the September
quarter of 1957 than in the
same period of 1956, but not
as great as in 1955.
Commercial and public-
body buildings commenced in
the September quarter of 1957
were higher in value (£39.2
million) than in the June
quarter (£34.5 million), but
not as high as in September,
1956 (£46.3 million). Build-
ings completed in the
September quarter of 1957 were
exceptionally high at £55
million (£35 million previous
year).
The number of people
employed by contractors and
Government authorities in the
building trade at Sept. 30 was
115,622, or 1770 more than at
June 30, but 1688 fewer than
in September, 1956.
Prices of building-materials
were 2.1 p.c. lower in
November, 1957, than in
November, 1956, whereas the
rise in the preceding year was
nearly 15 p.c.
Retail sales have been greater
in all States over the past
year, the greatest particular
increase being a result of the
introduction of TV. But even
food, beer, clothing and furni-
ture showed increases.
B.H.P. and “Increment”
TOURING the past few days
B.H.P. “old” shares have
been as high as 445. and the
rights as high as 235. (with 20s.
to pay).
For some time past The
Bulletin has expressed the
opinion that investors paying
such prices for B.H.P. shares
are overimpressed by ideas of
“market-increment.”
It is a fact that market-
increment in B.H.P. shares over
the past few years has been
impressive—and satisfying. But
such increment, notwithstand-
ing the issue of new shares (at
par, latterly, or as a
bonus), has had the effect
of reducing the yield offering to
about £3 15s. 9d. per cent, on
an 8J p.c. div. basis.
Even if the div. rose to 10
p.c. at some future date, the
yield, without further move-
ment of capital, would be
£4 10s. 1 Id. per cent.
If a 50 p.c. increase in capital
were made at par (which would
take paid capital up to £BO
million) the yield on an 8| p.c.
basis to the person buying now
at 445. and taking-up this at-
present-hypothetical new issue
would be £4 12s. 6d. per cent.
On 10 p.c. div. the return would
be £5 11s. per cent.
The “ifs” in the foregoing
need to be considered very
carefully.
There is no doubt that
B.H.P. is an excellent stock. But
everything has a fair price, and
“market-increment” —the very
attraction that has paid-off in
the past—now becomes the
burden of the investor of the
future.
Unless market - increment
pays-off in the form of commen-
surate dividends at some time
or other, somebody is bound to
be left with a stock bought at
too high a price, with the
market receding from him.
In all estimates of a stock’s
prospects, time is an important
factor. (It is, indeed, a vital
actuarial factor.) Some
investors buy for a rise
within weeks, some within
months, while others
(including institutions) may be
prepared to wait five, 10 or
more years.
While the long-term pros-
pects of B.H.P. are appealing
even at present prices, there are
many obvious traps in the
market for the investor at 445.
who does not intend to buy the
shares on a “lock-up and
forget” basis.


N*
“ i
£
When we were married ...
Times change, don't they? I remember how we used to
pay for everything in cash and just had one of the old style
savings accounts.*
Now we're really bank-minded; we have our Cheque and
Savings Accounts all at the same branch of A.N.Z. Bank.
That's mighty convenient, believe me.
* Our free booklet, "Bank Accounts [or Everyone,” is now
available at all A.N.Z. Bank branches. Please ask [or a copy.
A*N*Z
»♦ * |
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED Cheque Accounts
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED Savings Accounts
■a asei -eeezNV,
Vacuum Jacks-up
FOLLOWING a conference
in London between BP
Exploration, Vacuum Oil and
Oil Search interests, it was
decided that an additional
£BOO,OOO would be needed to
complete the drilling-pro-
gramme budgeted for in June,
1957, and, as a result, Vacuum
Oil has said it will not con-
tribute to the extra sum needed.
Oil Search, Ltd., has declared
that it feels it should assist BP
Exploration within the limits
of its resources, as it considers
the programme should be com-
pleted. The programme
embraces the completion of
four wells —Barikewa, Puri,
Komewu No. 2 and Kuru
No. 3.
Oil Search, Ltd., has about
a 10 p.c. interest in the Papuan
oil-venture, which to date has
spent around £3O million on
exploration and drilling. The
possibility of commercial oil in
Papua has not yet been
eliminated, but the major
partners have not budgeted for
anything beyond the comple-
tion of the present wells unless
something promising turns up.
However, they are considering
other arrangements which will
keep the search for oil alive
while maintaining a substantial
interest for the present partners.
Following the withdrawal
from the Carnarvon Basin in
W.A. by Wapet, the jacking-up
by Vacuum on further outlay
in Papua has produced a
double shock to the Australian
oil-share market.
Volkswagen
the announcement that
LNC Industries, Ltd. (dis-
tributor of Volkswagen and
Rover vehicles in Sydney) has
acquired a p.c. interest in
Volkswagen (A/sia), Ltd., a
co. newly formed to manufac-
ture Volkswagen vehicles in
Australia, it would appear that
the other Australian interests
will come in on the basis of
similar denominators. (The 12}
p.c. is a quarter of 49 p.c., which
is the total holding allocated
to interests outside the German
parent company, which holds
51 p.c. of the shares.)
One of the Australian
interests already mentioned is
Clyde Industries, Ltd., which
is to pass-over the body-
assembly works of its sub-
sidiary, Martin and King Pty.,
Ltd., Melbourne, to Volks-
wagen (A/sia), Ltd.
Another Australian interest
is Regent Motor (Holding),
Ltd., of Melbourne, a Volks-
wagen distributor.
The holdings of neither
Clyde nor Regent have yet been
announced. If Clyde is allo-
cated the major interest it
might work-out at 24} p.c., with
Regent and LNC at 12} p.c.
each. But at the moment the
actual allocations of capital are
pure guesswork, except in the
case of LNC.
The Volkswagen interest,
however, will be of considerable
moment to all the parties con-
cerned. (Clyde Industries, Ltd.,
was reviewed in last week’s
Bulletin.)
Carnarvon Basin Tragedy
[From L. Owen]
'"pHE definite announcement
of the Withdrawal by
Wapet from the Carnarvon
Basin came as a great shock
to those geologists who held
(and still so hold) the opinion
that this area includes some
of the most promising prospec-
tive oil-producing territory on
the Australian mainland.
About eight months ago I
dealt specifically with the
matter in an article entitled
“What’s Wrong with the Car-
narvon Basin?” (B. 19/6/’57).
On many previous occasions,
also, I have drawn attention to
what I considered the misuse of
time, effort and money in con-
structing a smoothed - out
model of the Birdrong-sand-
stone horizon.
The positive data required
for this purpose have been
obtained, perforce, by the
expensive method of sinking
bores to an average depth of
around 4000 ft., and it must
have been embarrassing to the
experts concerned to find that
the drilling results from most
of the wells were in conflict
with geophysical predictions.
My own opinion is that such
disagreement is to be expected
where geophysical interpreta-
tions are not controlled by an
adequate appreciation of the
geological history and the struc-
tural characteristics. In the case
of the Carnarvon Basin, the
geological history is unique, and
the structure, particularly at
depth, is unusual,
It has always astounded me
that the Birdrong sandstone
should have been regarded as
an oil-sand, except where the
geological-historical and struc-
tural conditions were both
abnormal. No one of the 80
or so bores sunk for water,
between 20 and 70 years ago,
has given evidence of even
![ ac i es ,, inference
that the chances of obtaining
worth-while oil did not justify
ost sin^in g wells on
surface structural highs
gained strong support later
when the nature of the
petroleum encountered m
R° u gh Range 1 was realised,
The oil-possibilities of the
Carnarvon Basin (then known
as the North-west Basin) were
first brought to public notice
by Dr. W. G. Woolnough in
1922, when he observed the
anticlinal structure of Cape
Range from the air. Dr. Wool-
nough’s observations were veri-
fied on the ground two years
later by a well-known


5%%
GOVERNMENT-
GUARANTEED
Can be yours for
5, 10 or 20 years!
The Sydney Water Board Loan offers you
this opportunity to increase your savings in
the safest possible way. Every Loan investor
makes absolutely certain of 5| per cent, each
year throughout a short, medium or long
term.
The N.S.W. Government unconditionally
guarantees half-yearly interest payments and
full repayment of principal after 5, 10 or
20 years;
When your money earns per cent., you
gain almost double savings bank interest.
Look at the accompanying interest table
and see for yourself exactly how much more
interest you will gain in 5 years.
SEE THE EXTRA MONEY YOU MAKE!
INVEST TODAY AT ANY OFFICE OF THE—
• Commonwealth Trading Bank ;
• Australia and New Zealand Bank ;
• Bank of New South Wales ;
• Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited ;
• Or through a Stockbroker ;
• Or at the Sydney Water Board Offices.
.
w
■*
innH
x-
CLOSES SATURDAY!
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
American petroleum-geologist
(F. G. Clapp). It was not until
1932, however, that detailed
stratigraphical mapping was
commenced by Oil Search, Ltd.,
employing a geologist and a
surveyor, both Australians.
As a result of their work, Oil
Search acquired permits to
explore the area for petrbleum
and extended its survey of
stratigraphical boundaries in
1934-35. This work was
carried out under the direction
of another well - known
American petroleum-geologist
(D. Dale Condit), who had on
his field-staff for a few weeks
an experienced British petro-
leum-geologist. ' Apart from
that, the field-mapping was
done chiefly by geologists and
surveyors without oilfield
experience.
Most of the maps and data
published as a result of these
surveys are of a high order,
stratigraphically, but the
critical observations and
interpretations of geological
minutias which are of
fundamental importance for
the successful search for
petroleum—are lacking. Oil
Search, Ltd., it may be men-
tioned, withdrew from the area
in 1938 without sinking a single
well.
The factual data contained in
reports on the Carnarvon Basin
published even prior to and
during 1936 are sufficient to
show that special techniques
would be required for well-
location with any hope of
reaching commercial oil. The
descriptions of the several
unconformities and discon-
formities (some of which are
obviously fault-planes) indicate
the improbability of the persist-
ence of surface-structures at
depth. On the other hand, the
great significance of the
asymmetric character of the
surface-folds in the Exmouth
Gulf area appears to have been
overlooked, as have other
points to which 1 have drawn
attention in these pages. Even
if their significance had been
appreciated by some of the
geologists concerned, it was
forgotten in the 1953-54
hysteria following the Rough
Range oil-strike.
The consequent drilling of
dry hole after dry hole has been
too fully dealt with in The
Bulletin to need repetition.
Thus has come about the
abandonment of one of the
very few areas, on the Aus-
tralian mainland, where the
geological history and the geo-
logical environment in com-
bination justify its acceptance
as a most promising potential
oil-region.
That the exodus has occurred
before any real test, or* even
delimitation, of a single pre-
Cretaceous structure underly-
ing the Carnarvon Basin has
been attempted constitutes the
greatest tragedy yet in the
not-too-happy history of the
search for black gold in
Australia.
Zinc Corp. and N.B.H.
ZI N C CORPORATION,
LTD., and New Broken
Hill Consolidated, Ltd.,
stepped-up their production of
zinc and lead concentrates in
the year ended December 31.
Zinc Corp. produced 122,820
tons of lead concentrate, com-
pared with 109,802 tons in
1956, and 139,684 tons of zinc
concentrate, compared with
133,661 tons.
Treatment of ore at the mill
increased from 712,180 tons to
767,069 tons.
The ore averaged 12.7 p.c.
(12.2 p.c. in 1956) lead, 3.1 oz.
(3.00 z.) silver and 10.5 p.c.
(10.8 p.c.) zinc.
New Broken Hill milled
721,241 (605,560) tons of ore,
assaying 9.8 p.c. (8.7 p.c.) lead,
2.70 z. (2.20 z.) silver and 11.9
p.c. (12.8 p.c.) zinc, for 87,975
(65,489) tons lead concen-
trate and 154,325 (137,989)
tons zinc concentrate.
Both companies have
decided to stockpile zinc con-
centrate at Broken Hill because
of the low price of the metal.
They advised Silverton
Tramway Co., which rails the
concentrates to the South Aus-
tralian railways terminal at
Cockburn, that they would
stop railing zinc concentrates
for an indefinite time.
Cement Shares
T}OR a brief stretch in
January Kandos Cement
(Sydney) £1 shares were (for a
change!) valued at frac-
tionally more than the £1
shares in Australian Cement
(Melbourne).
They were then both around
475. or 475. 6d.
But on Wednesday and
Thursday of last week there
was a leap to 51s. in Australian
Cement. Kandos moved up
more soberly to 495.
Though there should be little
or no difference between the
market-values of these stocks
(each has an equal equity in the
operating-co., with only a slight
difference in their own capitals),
either holding-co. should prove
a sound investment, in the long-
run, at 50s.


“Life Was pretty strenuous in those days — I'm sure I could never have stood up to it”


Missing Friend
HUXLEY.—Mr. J. Huxley or Mr. J. H.
Huxley witnessed a Will at Young on
or about 2nd November, 1955. An
Affidavit by Mr. Huxley is required. He
is believed to have been a traveller in
hardware and kitchenware or the like.
Will any person knowing the where-
abouts of Mr. Huxley please contact
MESSRS. GORDON, GARLING &
GIUGNI, Solicitors, Young?
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Damn Yankees”
“Damn Yankees,” the Firm’s
latest gift to Melbourne, is, to
put it in a nutshell, “Faust” in
terms of baseball. The book of
“Faust,” as everybody knows,
was written by a German bloke
named Goethe. The book of
“Damn Yankees” was written
by George Abbott and
Douglass Wallop, and is based
on a novel by the aforemen-
tioned Douglass Wallop.
Goethe based his book on
the legend of Faust, a reputed
professor of the black art who
flourished about 1600, and who
is alleged to have made a com-
pact with the Devil to give him
his soul and body provided
his Satanic Majesty endowed
him for a term of years with
youth and beauty and the
power to fulfil all his wishes.
In “Damn Yankees” a
middle-aged married baseball
fan, Applegate, comes to a
similar agreement, his price
being youth, strength and the
ability to hit a ball further
than any striker has ever hit
one before. The Devil not
only performs this miracle but
gets him a position as striker
in his favorite team, Washing-
ton, which is fighting a
desperate losing battle with the
Yankees for the premiership of
the country.
Applegate, however, begins
to weaken on his contract by
evincing a desire to get back to
the wife he has deserted, so
the Devil turns-on Lola. Lola,
to quote Messrs. Abbott and
Wallop, is a real sexy baby,
and poor Mr. Applegate is
thrown into an awful conflict.
In Goethe’s “Faust” the
rejuvenated professor meets,
loves and betrays Marguerite,
gets her with child and kills
her brother; she loses her
reason, kills her new-born
child and is sentenced to death,
in her final apotheosis ascend-
ing to heaven with angels
chanting her pardon while
Faust is dragged to the infernal
regions to keep his compact
with the Devil.
The Faust myth has been
subjected to manifold literary
treatment, but up to the present
Goethe’s rendering has super-
seded and eclipsed all other
attempts to unfold the pro-
fundity of its meaning. The
present commentator, unfor-
tunately, is not in a position
to say whether the Wallop-
Abbott version eclipses
Goethe’s. Had the tale been
told in terms of Australian
football he would probably
have sat right through it with
breathless interest, but Ameri-
can baseball has few, if any,
associations, pleasant or
unpleasant, for him, so he
found himself making for the
exit some time before the final
curtain. Judging by what
he did see, he would hazard
the guess that Mr. Applegate
escaped to Reno, got a divorce
and married Lola and lived
with her ever after, which
would be hell enough to satisfy
any devil.
The music of “Damn
Yankees” isn’t as good as
Gounod’s, but it is good
enough for the purposes of
Barbara Newman, the sexy
baby, and Alton Harvey, the
hero who saved Washington.
The chorus are as tough a lot
of guys as have ever shaken
the boards of Her Majesty’s.
*l* ❖ ❖
Organ Society Convention
The secohd session of the
Sydney Organ Society’s 1958
Convention was held at St.
Barnabas’ Church, Broadway,
and began with an organ-recital
by Robert Smith.
One should have thought
that, with three Bachs and a
Sweelinck, Mr. Smith could
hardly have gone wrong; but
of the four pieces the Bach
Chorale Prelude “Schmucke
dich, O liebe Seele” was the
only really acceptable offering.
As recorded by Walter Supper,
the Sweelinck —variations on
“Mein junges Leben hat ein
End” —is a charming if very
slight bit of baroque music,
founded on a complete descend-
ing major scale. Mr. Smith
brought good coloring to it,
but his pauses between some
of the earlier variations were
too protracted. And why did
he neglect using reeds? Supper
uses them, and very effectively,
too.
In the first movement of
Bach’s Sixth Trio Sonata Mr.
Smith’s coloring was again
good—three separate layers of
tone, yet blending nicely as a
whole although technical
faults tended to mar his per-
formance. Admitted, the mis-
takes were tiny, but with Bach
above all others you just can’t
make any. The chorale-prelude
noted before, an example of
milk - and - honey smoothness
and simplicity, was handled
really well; but the last piece,
the Bach Toccata in F, was too
slow, and was slightly labored
in the first of the two difficult
solo pedal-passages.
Later, in St. Andrew’s
Cathedral, J. V. Peters, from
Adelaide, gave a Brahms-Reger
organ-recital: the 1882 Brahms
Chorale and Fugue, his Eleven
Chorale Preludes, plus Reger’s
Second Sonata in D Minor.
Mr. Peters is so thorough a
musician as to be an artist. In
the Chorale, this commentator
liked the forthright treatment
of the melody (Bft, choir
trompette) and in the Fugue
the pleasing lack of muddy
reed-color. Mr. Peters has the
most salutary habit of sticking
to diapasons, resorting to reeds
only in doubl e-forte emerg-
encies, or when a distinctive
timbre is called for.
It’s rather a pity we don’t
hear more of the Eleven
Chorale Preludes. All are
pleasant, and all are different in
emotional strength (contrast,
say, the romanticism of the
eighth Prelude, “A beauteous
rose hath blossomed,” with the
classical muscularity of the
sixth, “Oh how happy, ye
whose souls.”) About the only
thing amiss was the organist’s
uneven key-release in Preludes
one, four and six, so that,
instead of a knife-edge cut-off,
the sound finished in a splayed
layer.
The Reger sonata was extra-
ordinary. He is hardly a com-
poser to be sneezed at, even if
his organ-works, by virtue of
their technical difficulty, are
very rarely heard. This one is
a little humdinger, with plenty
of fire and brimstone about it.
In the first movement, brilliant
breakers of sound contrast with
soft flute- and string-tone. The
second movement is peaceful
and chromatic, and the final
section is divided into an intro-
duction and fugue. The fugue,
on a typical chromatic subject,
must be a brute to play ; but
Mr. Peters was always assured,
guiding the organ and listeners
confidently through the lush
jungle of sound. Such playing,
in fact, transcends criticism.
Next in the five-day conven-
tion came music for organ and
strings (the Charles Gray string-
orchestra, with Vincent
Sheppard at the organ-console)


am
CONSERVE ALL YOU CAN IN A
LYSAGHT
HEAVY GAUGE
Four standard sizes range
from 25,000 to 100,000
gallons capacity
MATERIAL: Heavy gauge 5/5" corrugated galvanized
sheets, pre-drilled and curved. Waterproof jointing
material: bolts, nuts, washers and tools. Outlet fitting,
drilled and threaded to suit every pipe size up to 6".
Bolted construction facilitates replacement of sheets with*
out dismantling tank.
Lysaght Tanks am designed
to be erected on concrete
bases (provided by the pur*
chaser). Details of recom-
mended bases, using the
cement penetrant method of
construction, are available
on request.
Special materials for cement
penetrated concrete base are
available as optional extras.
Cement, sand and aggregate
are provided by the purchaser.
USES:
# Water conservation
• Irrigation head tank
• Industrial water
storage
• Swimming pools
# Town water supply
# Fire fighting
Overflow unit available
at slight extra cost
PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
Prices c.iJ. capita / cities available on application
10,000-Gailon Water Tanks (tall or squat) are available also
10.000-GALLON WATER TANK PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
I4ft. 4in. dia., 10ft. 7in. high 19ft. lin. dia., Aft. sin. high
Basic unit, £ll7 Basic unit, £93
Write for further information to:
JOHN LYSA6HT (AUSTRALIA) PTY, LTD. in all Capital Cities or
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED, NEWCASTLE WORKS
LCI3AXC
in St. James’ Church, King
Street.
First was Boyce’s Sonata in
F, a four-square bit of 18th-
century writing, clearly show-
ing the composer’s affinity to
the style of Handel —Boyce, in
fact, could almost be described
as a minor Handel. Despite its
somewhat narrow form this
sonata has grace and lightness
and a certain stylised charm ;
the organ, restricted to a single
flute-stop, blended perfectly
with the strings.
The Minuet from Bach’s
“Anna Magdalena” book was
given to the organ alone ; and
Vincent Sheppard, by sheer
artistry, transformed this
junior piano-students’ ever-
green into a thing of exquisite
beauty. C. P. E. Bach’s Sonata
in B Flat brought to light some
raggedness in the orchestra, less
apparent in the serene second-
movement. Surely the theme
of the lively final movement
was too slight to have been
expanded so much? But Dr.
Sheppard’s delicate treatment
ot the organ continually held
one’s attention.
Next was the “Solemn
Melody” of Walford Davies,
the theme like palm-trees nod-
ding a rich and sleepy melody,
leading through a minute
development - section to a
diapasonal build-up. Here the
strings sang exultantly before
sliding away to a sorrowful
whisper.
Mozart used to dash-off
Epistle Sonatas for organ and
two violins, primarily to
freshen-up the services in Salz-
burg Cathedral; Mr. Gray’s
group played three —in G, E
and C. The first was a dancing
fresh piece, not unlike an
orchestrated piano-sonata ; the
second, more sombre, as if
Mozart suddenly remembered
he was, in effect, writing
church-music. The third sonata
was so m q c h like the
accompaniment to an aria that
one almost expected a soprano
suddenly to emerge and burst
into song. In this last sonata
much more prominence is given
to the organ, there being even
a short organ-cadenza.
Elgar’s “Serenade for
Strings” was curiously un-
appetising. In the first move-
ment his attempts at gaiety
seemed an uneasy compromise
between fair melodic sense and
boiled - shirtism; and the
second-movement, holus-bolus,
would make excellent back-
ground-music for one of the
more sentimental Yank films.
Last was Alec Rowley’s
pseudo-wistful “Meditation,”
with the strings creeping in
above soft diapasons, thereafter
maintaining an antiphonal
dialogue with the organ.
A. W.
■&
“The Happiest Days of
Your Life”
This excessively English
comedy, put on at Melbourne
Princess by the Elizabethan
Trust, is calculated to make
you /me sick with laughter or
stiff with boredom, according
to your/my associations.
That veteran English actress,
Miss Margaret Rutherford, as.
the principal of a blitzed girls’
school which, owing to a mis-
apprehension as to the sex of
the school, has been billeted on
a boys’ school by a war-time
Ministry of Education, will
meet your/my approbation
according to our dispositions.
Present writer found it
difficult to maintain his interest
in Miss Rutherford’s reactions
to an almost endless succession
of farcical situations in which
the humor depended on this
misapprehension. He found
David Butler as a flustered
headmaster more amusing,
though this was possibly
because he reminded him of an
amiable old pedant of his
schooldays.
Eric Rasdall and Ray
Barrett, as assistant masters,
were rather quaintly contrasted
with Pamela Page and Nancy
Wise, as their opposite-numbers
of the feminine gender, in a
large number of impossible
situations, but as all four paid
the same exaggerated court to
a rather innocuous Muse of
innuendo, interest in them was
also apt to languish.
The Trust is pledged to
revive the spirit of the Eliza-
bethan theatre —but, possibly,
the Elizabethan audiences liked
tripe, too.
♦ ♦ ♦
Brisbane Opera-season
The announcement that the
Australian Elizabethan Theatre
Trust intends opening its 1958
opera-season in Brisbane is
received with suspicion by the
city’s opera-lovers.
In 1957 a similar gesture was
much publicised as a reward
for good attendances at the
previous year’s Mozart season,
but a hollow reward it turned
out to be, compared with
States where deficits were the
order of the day. The works
presented “Tosca,” “La
Boheme” and “Tales of Hoff-
mann” (the latter little better
than a dress-rehearsal on its
opening night)—have all been
familiar to the city since the
days of the ’49 Italian company.
The two new operas, “Otello”
and “Bartered Bride,” described
in the Sydney press as the out-
standing presentations of the
year, were not offered to
Queenslanders. The Trust is a
Commonwealth organisation,
but it will continue to
antagonise the smaller capitals
(where, indeed, it makes some
profit to offset its Melbourne
losses) if it persists in this
policy of presenting to them
a haphazard selection from its
annual programme. The
N.S.W. Opera Company of the
early ’fifties treated Queensland
to a wider range of operas
without reliance on a financial
blessing from Commonwealth
sources.
At Covent Garden, the
“Met.” and La Scala, a new
production of a major Verdi
opera is the natural centre-
piece of no-matter-how-
dazzling a season, and if selec-
tion were inevitable for Bris-
bane, it is certain that opera-
lovers (if not opera-socialites)
would have gladly forgone one
of the two Puccini works to
find stage-place for the
“Otello.” Puccini may be better
box-office,, but the Trust has
a duty to opera audiences as
well as to its bankers.
Artbursts
Lawyer-artists
Considerable fuss is being
made in Melbourne over an
exhibition of pictures painted
exclusively by lawyers. What
is remarkable about that? If
chimpanzees can produce works


IMPORTANT
ANNOUNCEMENT
Australia's Leading Hire Purchase Organisation, Established 21 Years.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
announces
4
that it will shortly file and issue a Prospectus for an issue at par of
Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stock
Currencies from 2 to 20 years at your option
i
INTEREST
Interest per annum, payable quarterly, free of exchange
1
65 per cent per annum (compounded)
4to 20 years. Interest automatically
re-invested annually— Principal
DOUBLES in 11 years.
I
I.A.C.’s regular issues of Short and Long Term Debenture Stocks provide
a source of assured income, and a secure investment, backed by assets which
now exceed £50,000,000.
Requests for a Prospectus, when available, may be made to Members of Stock Exchanges,
the 703 Branches of the AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED, and
INDUSTRIAL
ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
SYDNEY • BRISBANE • PERTH •
ADELAIDE • HOBART • CANBERRA
Underwriting Brokers: Bankers:
lAN POTTER & CO.. MELBOURNE, CANBERRA & SYDNEY AUSTRALIA
MELBOURNE
• NEWCASTLE
& NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
D29
of art, why not lawyers? They
are just as intelligent as
chimpanzees, and some of them
are as terrifying as gorillas.
There is nothing terrifying
about the pictures of the group
which are hanging at the
Athenaeum Gallery. They are
mainly conventional exercises
in the academic tradition and
few venture far outside it.
F. Dickinson’s landscapes have
more feeling in them than his
portraits, which are as literal as
the report of a court-case,
There is sensitiveness in
“Shoreham Landscape,” by A.
Joubert, and “Dudley Flats,” by
H. Ball, is a good souvenir of
Melbourne’s one-time plague-
spot. P. Trumble’s “Waitin’ at
the Levee” is the liveliest thing
in the exhibition. The V.I.P.s
depicted are all recognisable,
and the quality of his line
suggests that if the artist hadn’t
decided to be a lawyer he
would have made a remark-
able cartoonist.
Films
“The Pyjama Game”
The Moss-Adler musical-
comedy, based on industrial-
relations in a pyjaiha factory,
makes a snappy and polished
film with tiptop performances
from Doris Day, as the head of
the factory’s . grievance-com-
mittee, and John Raitt, as the
superintendent who doesn’t let
emotional matters interfere
with his industrial responsi-
bilities. Both the principals
sing with verve, the choruses
have weight and good tone, and
the massed dancing in the
factory-picnic sequence is crisp
and skilful, with imaginative
choreography.
Additional attractions
include the bright dialogue, a
zany performance by Carol
Haney as the boss’s secretary,
and a good by
Eddie Foy, Jr., as the foreman.
At Sydney Regent.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“The Smallest Show on
Earth”
In this English comedy, a
struggling author (Bill Travers)
inherits a small-town cinema
which turns out to be a tumble-
town affair run by an ancient
cashier (Margaret Rutherford),
a decrepit projectionist (Peter
Sellers) and an equally decayed
commissionaire (Bernard
Miles). The efforts of the
author and his wife (Virginia
McKenna) to put it on a
profitable basis and stick out
lOr a good price for it —the
owner of the rival show covets
the site as a parking-area—
make a moderately amusing
comedy, gaining a good deal
from the character-work of
Miss Rutherford, Miles and
Sellers.
At Sydney Embassy.
♦♦♦ *** ***
“Last Five Minutes”
This Italian comedy (with
English sub-titles) never gets off
the ground, mainly because of
a weak plot about a snap-
marriage between two middle-
aged seekers after a posh flat
in Rome, and the husband's
efforts to counter his flighty
wife’s . amorous adventures.
Vittorio de Sica, as the hus-
band, restricts his acting to
an effort to appear serene under
all circumstances; Rossano
Brazzi is the handsome lover,
and Linda Darnell the wife.
At Sydney Vogue.


Experienced
The Trustees Executors & Agency
COMPANY LTD.
focorporatod is Victoria ia 187#
TR55.34
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Management of Agricultural and Pastoral Properties
The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee
Company, has a wide association with the administration of rural properties.
It provides efficient management, safeguards the interests of dependents,
and provides ample security for the performance of Trusts at a fixed and
moderate cost.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the folloicing —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company as your Executor either alone or
jointly with some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLI6H STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserve*, £ 972,812 .
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones;
J Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; W. E. M.
Campbell; T. L. Webb.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D-; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia
NOW well into its centenary year, the
National, ranking third in size among
the seven Australian private trading-
banks —the ’Wales and the A.N.Z. lead
the way —continues its vigorous expan-
sion.
At last balance-date, assets (includ-
ing contingents) exceeded £3OO million
for the first time in the bank’s history.
And 20 new branches and receiving-
offices opened during the term gave the
National’s banking empire a membership
of 855, with especially strong represen-
tation in Victoria and Queensland.
But, in common with other trading-
banks, the expansionist policy, necessary
for the bank to hold its place in a rapidly
expanding economy, has tended to outrun
earning capacity under the present contri-
tions of credit-squeeze; and although
gross earnings for the year ended Sept.
30 last were the highest on record,
increasing by £208,058 to £9,560,135,
running - expenses, including taxation
provision, rose even more rapidly, absorb-
ing an additional £232,510, to bring the
total to £8,633,328 ; net profit therefore
slipped by £24,452 to £926,807:
National and Subsidiaries.
Dividends. Writ- To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 10 p.c. ten off. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1951.. 623,781 470,822 100,000 52,959 5,352,022
1952.. 653,666 470,822 100,000 82,844 5,434,866
Surplus liquidation Q.N. Bank,
£500,000 .. .. .. 6,934,866
8 p.c.
1953.. 669.004 538,082 100,000 30,922 5,965,788
9 p.c.
1954.. 741,394 605,342 100,000 36,052 6,001,840
Share premiums, £1,008,904 .. 7,010,744
From inner reserves, £991,096 .. 8,001,840'
Unexplained addition, £7135 .. 8,008,975
1955.. 900,056 762,640 137.416 8,146,391
1956.. 954,152 908,013 46,139 8,192,530
1957.. 926,807 908,013 18,794 8,211,324
The 2.6 p.c. setback in earnings was
insufficient to prevent the declaration of
an unaltered 9 p.c. div., although the
£908,013 thus absorbed left a scant
£18,794 to be visibly carried forward to
reserves. Earning-rates have shown a
steady fall in recent years, the return on
shareholders’ funds from 1953 onward
being 5.3 p.c., 5.8, 4.9, 5.2 and 5 p.c., and
on average paid capital, 9.9 p.c., 11, 10.6,
9.4 and 9.2 p.c.
In the circumstances, the decline in
earnings was inevitable. Although
deposits, stimulated by a higher export-
income and a rapidly improving balance-
of-payments, were entered over £2O
million higher, a further £l4 million had
to be diverted to the virtually profitless
special account with the central bank;
and in consequence of the banks’ under-
taking to maintain their L.G.S. (liquidity)
ratio on a uniform basis, an additional
£7 million was devoted to Government
securities, mainly long-term:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital £10,089,037 £10,089,037 £10,089,037
Reserves .. 8,146,391 8,192,530 8,211,324
Notes .. 47,478 47,478 47,478
Deposits, etc. 246,333,823 252,373,888 272.895,857
Due other
banks .. 238,909 211,172 255,835
Final divs. 454,006 454,007 454,007
£265,309,644 £271,368,112 £291,953,538
Liquids .. 63,902,069 75,139,473 83,722,803
Special a/o 40,637,000 39,437,000 53,837,000
Loans,
advances. . 152,406,242 147,829,425 142,595,127
Premises . . 4,686,703 5,871,851 8,253,592
Other assets 3,677,630 3,090,363 3,545,016
£265,309,644 £271,368,112 £291,953,538
Trading-bank advances, which had begun
to fall in 1955-56, continued on this trend
even more steeply last term, and the
National’s share of the general £26-
million reduction was over £5 million.
Influenced by two divergent forces, the
ratio of advances to deposits fell to 52 p.c.
The bank’s liquidity-ratio continued to
improve, 6s. Id. of liquids being held for
each £1 of depositors’ money at the end
of the term, while a further 4s. was
immobilised in the special account.
By Dec. 31 last, no significant changes
had come over the general banking scene,
despite the central bank’s hint at a
limited reversal of its credit policy. Trad-
ing-bank advances outstanding were little
higher than those of a year earlier (£B7l
million, as against £B7O million) and
represented a substantially lower per-
centage of deposits (52.9 p.c., as against
56.9 p.c.). Deposits themselves had
reached an all-time high at £1,647 million
(£1,530 million in Dec., 1956), an increase
of £ll7 million.
But the tapering-off of export income
anticipated in the second half of the
current term seems likely to throw the
onus of credit-expansion back on to the
central bank, at least to a large extent.
Priced at 345. 9d., the National’s f.-p.
£1 shares are currently yielding 5.2 p.c.
on the 9 p.c. div. basis. The £1 shares
paid to 12s. 6d. each return 5.4 p.c. on the
same basis. With uncalled capital
included, net visible cover at last balance-
date was 325. lOd. a share.
Taubmans Industries, Ltd.
SINCE plant-capacity of the Aus-
tralian paint industry caught-up with
demand four or five years ago, intensive
selling-campaigns—directed mainly at do-
it-yourself home-painters—have marked
a return of the highly competitive trad-
ing conditions which characterised the
industry in pre-war years.
Recently-completed expansion pro-
grammes, with those still in progress,
should keep the local market well
supplied in the immediate future, and,
looking for a larger market, a number of
manufacturers have lately been paying
more attention to export possibilities, with
the result that competition in this field
has stiffened over the past couple of
years. To date, however, exports have
accounted for only a very small propor-
tion of total output.
In these circumstances, Taubmans
Industries, Ltd., the largest manufacturer
of paints, enamels, varnishes and
synthetic resins, etc., in both Australia
and New Zealand, has done well to
increase its turnover in each of the last
five terms. Due largely to the rising costs
of raw materials, labor and services, and
the dislocation of production schedules
brought about by waterfront strikes, the
co.’s earnings dropped sharply—and
unexpectedly —in 1956, but latest
accounts show that a substantial, if not
quite complete, recovery was effected
last term.
In common with all but one of the


major Australian manufacturers, Taub-
mans has strong ties with an English
organisation, Pinchin, Johnson and
Associates, Ltd. (U.K.), holding a large
parcel of the co.’s ord. scrip. Access to
technical developments in the U.S.A. is
provided by an agreement with American
Marietta Co.
Trading through 15 subsidiaries, Taub-
mans operates factories in all Australian
States and in Wellington and Auckland
(N.Z.).
The group’s manufacturing strength
has been greatly increased over the last
decade, shareholders putting-up the
bulk of the additional capital required
for the purpose. A one-for-one issue, at
a 20 p.c. premium, doubled ord. capital
in 1950 and was followed in 1956 by a
four-for-five issue, again at a 20 p.c.
premium. Paid capital, at present
£2,446,071, includes £lOO,OOO in 5 p.c.
prefs.
Group-turnover rose by approximately
6 p.c. last term (to September 30), reach-
ing a record but undisclosed total, and,
with costs kept in check by the introduc-
tion of modem equipment and improved
manufacturing - techniques, net profit
climbed by £74,537 to £413,759 after
setting aside something for taxation and
£262,173 for depreciation. (Income,
land and payroll taxes actually paid
during the year amounted to £319,412,
a fall of £25,240.):
Taubmans Industries and Subsidiaries.*
i Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit.'s p.c. r~ Ordinary--, serves, serves.f
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
Share premiums, £52,243 .. ..1,279,891
Profit sale assets, £80,090 .. .. 1,359,981
Less intangibles, etc., £44,731 .. 1,315,250
’53. .356,445 5000 15 = 175,309 176,136 1,491,386
Share premiums, £16,368 .. .. 1,507,754
Unexplained additions, £1798 .. 1,509,552
Less added intangibles, £14,074 . . 1,495,478
’54..383,562 5000 15 - 176,333 202,229 1,697,707
Add subsidiaries reserves, £12,760.. 1,710,467
Share premiums, £276,367 .. .. 1,986,834
Unexplained addition, £86,353 .. 2,073,187
Less added intangibles, £202,801 .. 1,870,386
’55..428,549 5000 15 = 191,651 231,898 2,102,284
Share premiums, £204,428 .. .. 2,306,712
Plus reduction intangibles, £10,622 .. 2,317,334
’56..339,222 5000 244,547 89,675 2,407,009
Re-acquisition profits, £6031 .. .. 2,413,040
Addition intangibles, £5250 .. .. 2,407,790
Share-premiums, £51,000 i. .. 2,458,790
Profit sale assets, etc., £40,192 .. 2,498,982
’57..413,759 5000 290,484 118,275 2,617,257
* After eliminating outside interests. t After
deducting intangibles, £279,903 at 30/9/’57.
The ord. div.-rate, after five years at 15
p.c., was reduced to p.c. in 1956 and
held at the lower level last term, earnings
covering the pref. div. and 17.5 p.c. on
average ord. capital, compared with 17.1
p.c. in the previous term and an average
of 31.8 p.c. on the smaller capital
employed in the three preceding years.
The balance of the share-capital in
Hill and Plummer (Merchants), Ltd., of
New Zealand (in which the co. originally
held a 50 p.c. interest), was bought for
cash during the term, and its premises in
Auckland, previously leased, were
acquired by the issue of scrip (to a face-
value of £46,250) at a total premium of
£51,000.
Finances are sound, working-capital
growing by £105,503 to £2,719,138 over
the year, while a £413,410 reduction in
stocks and a corresponding increase in
cash (up £426,763) left the co. well-
supplied with liquids:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref. .. .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord 1,300,799 2,299,821 2,346,071
Reserves .. .. 2,387,559 2,681,662 2,897,160
Mortgages' .. 572,091 560,009 497,490
Creditors* .. 933,806 999,161 985,865
Pinchin Johnson
advance . . 625,000 .
Exchange account 110,716 108,575 133,160
Suspense account 89,484 32,709
Staff fund .. 28,000 28,000 28,000
Final divs. ... 102,214 126,490 152,495
£6,160,185 £6,993,202 £7,172,950
Freeholds .. .. 1,397,198 1,765,215 1,898,756
Plant .. .. 938,337 1,028,033 1,075,990
Investments .. 68,128 68,531 94
Stocks .. .. 1,846,809 2,489,931 2,076,521
Debtors .. .. 1,329,638 1,184,891 1,232,975
Cash .. .. 237,000 181,948 608,711
Suspense account 57,800
.Intangibles . 285,275 274,653 279,903
£6,160,185 £6,993,202 £7,172,950
* Includes provision for taxation.
Capital-expenditure appears to have been
in the vicinity of £500,(X)0, but deprecia-
tion and the sale of assets formerly
owned by Taubmans Chemicals Pty.
limited the net addition to the book-
value of fixed assets to £181,498.
(1.C.1.A.N.Z took over Taubmans
Chemicals several years ago.) The drop
in investments reflects the Hill and
Plummer (Merchants) transaction, which
also contributed to the increase in
fixed assets.
Factories were completed at Towns-
ville (Q.) and Perth last year and ware-
houses established at Wagga and Orange
(both in N.S.W.). The new resin factory
at Villawood (N.S.W.) is approaching full
production, and development of the site
is continuing with the first stage of a
factory for the manufacture of indus-
trial coatings expected to be complete
within the next few months.
Overall demand for paint and allied
products tended to stabilise last year,
and a significant increase in the current
term seems unlikely. However, the group
is in a good position to hold or even
enlarge its share of the market, and
earnings should continue to benefit from
the “substantial savings in material and
handling costs” which, the board claims,
have followed the installation of new
plant and the adoption of improved pro-
duction-techniques.
At 12s. sd. the f.-p. ss. ords. would
return £5 os. Bd. p.c. from a 12| p.c. div.,
net tangible backing (consolidated
accounts) amounting to 10s. 7d.
Rockman’s Showrooms, Ltd.
pETERING-OUT in 1955-56, Rock-
man’s five-year run of expanding
profits gave way last term to a 49 p.c.
cut in net earnings, forcing the co. to
draw on capital profits in order to cover
a sharply reduced ord. div.
Formed as a holding-co. for a string of
associated proprietaries in 1950, Rock-
man’s Showrooms, Ltd., operates in all
States except W.A., trading through a
chain of 77 retail stores and a mail-order
offshoot.
The group was originally interested in
the manufacture and retail of women’s
clothing, but has widened its range of
merchandise in recent years to cover
men’s-wear, children’s clothing, dress-
materials, millinery and manchester
mainly in the medium-price field, while
the new Canberra store, opened last year
includes a self-service food department!
Two newly-opened branches are con-
ducted on the self-selection principle, and
the extension of this system to other
suitable branches is planned. Meanwhile
there appears to have been some with-
drawal from the manufacturing field.
Adding 18 units (net) to its chain of
retail outlets over the four years to July
31 last, Rockman’s increased its invest-
ment in fixed assets by a shade under
£2 million over the same period,
additional loan- and share-capital helping
to finance the capital-outlay involved.
Both pref. and ord. capital were
increased in June, 1956, when 300,000
£1 p.c. prefs. and 1,000,000 ss. ords.
were issued at par, the ords. being
offered to shareholders in the ratio of
one for five. In the same year the
£200,000 share-capital of Archer and
Laing Holdings, Ltd. (Sydney-based
fashion-goods retailer), was bought at a
cost of £lOO,OOO in cash and £50,000
(par value) in scrip. The co. now has a
paid capital of £1,910,000, of which
£175,000 carries a fixed 5 p.c. and
£300,000 a fixed p.c.
Rising from 8 p.c. to 10 p.c. in 1953,
the ord. div.-rate reached 12i p.c. in the
following year, slipping back to 11 p.c.
in 1956. Last term’s contraction in
earnings brought a further reduction, a
1\ p.c. distribution (1| p.c. tax-exempt)
leaving the average div.-rate over the
seven years since formation at 10.1 p.c.
According to the board, unseasonable
weather “depressed sales” during the year
to July 31 last, but just how far turn-
over (shown at £6,466,938) actually fell
isn’t revealed. However, the drop would
appear to have been in the vicinity of
15 p.c. of the figure recorded in the
preceding 13-month period, and possibly
even larger. Higher operating-expenses,
especially interest, rates and taxes, also
affected earnings, net profit shrinking by
£99,806 to £105,059 (when compared with
results in. the previous 13-month term),
after providing £66,730 (down £75,080)
for taxation and a little-altered £62,178
for depreciation. The sale of fixed assets,
bonds, etc., resulted in a further capital
profit of £91,360:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1 Dividends N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. t —■ —Ord. serves, serves.*
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £20,277 .. .. 83,809
'53..148,583 8,750 10 p.c.= 80,500 59,333 143,142
Profit sale assets, £7O .. ~ .. 143,212
Preliminary expenses, £19,764 .. 123,448
'54. .187,082 8,750 121p.c.=113,000 65,332 188,780
Profit sale assets, etc., £4884 .. .. 193,664
Preliminary expenses, £2500 .. .. 191,164
'55..200,661 8,750 12ip.c.=133,625 58,286 249,450
Net loss sale assets, £6283 .. .. 243,167
Preliminary expenses, £20,891 , .. 222,276
Add pre-acquisition reserve, £16,884.. 239,160
July, 5 & p.c.
’56..204,868 13,171 11 p.c.=132,850 58,847 298,007
Tax overprovided, £l4 .. .. .. 298,021
Capital profits (net), £91,360 .. 389,381
Reduction in goodwill on consolida-
tion, £21,352 - 410,733
'57..105,059 31,250 7fp.c.=111,213 373,321
* Subject to intangibles, £57,332 at 31/7/’57.
The 1\ p.c. prefs. participated fully in
divs. for the first time, £31,250 (up
£18,079) of the smaller profit going to
pref. shareholders, the balance equalling


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Mag-netting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
A WIDE RANGE
OF LIFE ASSURANCE
& PERSONAL ACCIDENT
a SICKNESS POLICIES
to meet the needs of all sections
of Australia’s expanding population
AUSTRALIAN
= METROPOLITAN LIFE =
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Qld., 1895)
HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS: E. W. Robinson, Esq.
(Chairman), Col. R. S. Goward, C.8.E.,
P. H. Phillips, Esq., T. Keith Smith, Esq.,
C. W. Rothe, Esq., S. J. Gandon, Esq.
Gen. Manager: W. J. Cooksey, B.Sc., F.F.A.
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant super-
vision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY BU 3445
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
5.1 p.c. on ord. capital com-
pared with 15.8, 18 and 19.7
p.c. in the three years back to
1954. Total div. requirements
exceeded net (trading) profit by
£37,404.
A new branch at Dandenong
(Vic.) commenced trading
during the term, while stores at
Katoomba (N.S.W.), Brunswick
(Vic.) and Swanston Street,
Melbourne, were sold, the
book-value of fixed assets
(revalued in 1950) increasing by
a net £275,627. Modern stores
at Canberra (Civic Centre) and
Melbourne (Little Collins
Street) were opened early in
the current term, initial trading
results from both of these units
being highly satisfactory.
When the books closed there
was 235. 3d. of outside money
in the business for each £ of
shareholders’ funds:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1956. 1957.
Pref £470,390 £475,000
Old. ... .. 1,435,000 1,435,000
Reserves .. 298,007 373,329
Mortgage .. 1,323,956 1,469,639
Overdraft .. 480,975 415,536
Creditors .. 506,273 631,281
Tax provision.. 151,740 72,818
Final divs. .. 82,396 69,438
£4,748,737 £4,942,041
Freeholds .. 1,968,419 2,218,542
Leaseholds .. 32,186 29,589
Fixtures, fittings 614,561 642,662
Shares .. .. 466 466
Stocks .. .. 1,830,614 1,625,142
Debtors .. .. 182,355 338,689
Cash, etc. .. 47,238 29,619
Intangibles *. 72,898 57,332
£4,748,737 £4,942,041
Improved merchandising
methods contributed to the
£205,472 fall in stocks, but,
with the funds released being
“diverted to capital works,” the
amount due to trade and other
creditors rose by £125,008.
Although several branches are
now providing facilities for the
purchase of goods on credit, a
big jump in the amount owing
by debtors other than trade-
debtors was entirely respon-
sible for the £156,334 added to
book-debts. These movements
left working-capital £34,446
lower at £804,377.
An extension of credit-sell-
ing and the introduction of self-
service on a wider scale could
produce better results in the
current term, but the share-
market prefers to wait and see,
pricing the f.-p. ss. ords. at
4s. lid., to return £7 17s. Bd.
p.c. should the div.-rate remain
at 1\ p.c. Consolidated
accounts show a net tangible
backing of 6s. Id. for each
ss. ord.
H. L. Brisbane & Wunder-
lich, Ltd.
r T'HE largest manufacturer of
roofing-tiles in Westralia,
H. L. Brisbane and Wunder-
lich, Ltd., also turns out stain-
less-steel, aluminium and sheet-
metal products, refractories,
bricks, sewerage-pipes, pottery
and crockery in addition to
carrying on business as glass-
merchant and shopfitter.
The scope of the co.'s
activities has helped it to cope
with fluctuations in the levels
of home- and commercial -
building and, last term, record
sales of crockery, etc., and a
strong demand for stainless-
steel and other sheet-metal
products practically offset a
decline in sales of roofing-tiles
and pipes.
Formed as H. L. Brisbane
and Co., Ltd., in 1929, the co.
took its present title in 1938,
when Wunderlich, Ltd.,
acquired a substantial share-
holding in exchange for its
interests in W.A.
To finance extensions to the
Caversham tile-factory, one of
several plants owned in and
around Perth, shareholders
were offered 175,000 £1 ords. at
par (one-for-two) late in 1954,
paid capital reaching its present
total, £678,037, in the following
year, on completion of a one-
for-six bonus-issue. There are
88,733 £1 5 p.c. prefs.
Ord. divs. have been calcu-
lated on a 12| P-c. basis in each
of the last- five terms, to give
an average div.-rate of 11.5 p.c.
for the past 10 years.
A slip in homebuilding in
W.A. last term only 5030
homes were completed, com-
pared with 7760 in the previous
financial year and the con-
tinued deferment of extensions
to the sewerage-system in that
State, restricted the co.’s sales
of roofing-tiles and sewerage-
pipes over the year to June 30
last. Nevertheless, the drop in
total turnover, £1,510,386, was
relatively small at £52,897, an
increase in the volume of com-
mercial building stimulating
demand for stainless-steel
fittings, steel window- and
door-frames, etc., while sales of
crockery and pottery reached a
new peak. Overall profit-
margins were a little wider, too,
pre-tax earnings, after provid-
ing £49,995 (down £1678) for
depreciation, rising by
£12,668 to £175,440, the higher
figure representing 11.6 p.c. of
sales as against 10.4 p.c. in 1956.
The final result was affected
by a more-than-commensurate
increase in the provision for
taxation (up £14,080 to
£75,280), which left net profit
£1412 smaller at £100,160:
Re-
Jne., Profit. Pref. , Ord. serves.
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £
To staff fund, £5150 .. 214,764
’53.. 80,729 4437 = 33,664 257,392
To staff fund, £5OOO .. 252,392
Tax overprovided, £16,567 268,959
’54..123,583 4436 = 41,282 346,824
Res. capitalised, £84,049.. 262,775
To staff fund, £3924 .. 258,851
’55..135,004 4436 12-4 = 53,827 335,592
To staff fund, £2s*o .. 335,342
Tax underprovided, £5080.. 330,262
’56..101,572 4436 124= 73,664 353,734
’57.-100,160 4436 12J = 73,663 375,795
Representing 9.3 p.c. on
total shareholders’ funds, the
earnings covered the pref. div.
and 16.2 p.c. on ord. capital,
compared with 16.4 p.c. in the
preceding term and 30.3 p.c. on
the lower average ord. capital
employed in 1955.
Adapting itself successfully
to the altered pattern of
demand, the co. further con-
solidated its financial position,
the ratio of current assets to
current liabilities advancing to
1.7 to 1, as against 1.5 to 1
at the beginning of the term:
Capital— 1956. 1957.
Pref. .. £88,733 £88,733
Ord. .. 589,304 589,304
Reserves ~ 353,734 375,795
Staff fund .. 25,000 25,000
Overdraft .. 240,728 196,070
Creditors ~ 69,510 83,920
Tax provision ~ 67,331 75,341
Final div. .. 39,050 46,416
£1,473,390 £1,480,579
Freeholds .. 384 ; 846 391,275
Plant, etc. .. 444,235 412,524
Stock* .. .. 439,726 444,295
Debtors .. .. 200,269 231,157
Cash, etc. 4,314 1,32 S
£1,473,390 £1,480,579
* Includes work-ip-progress, less
progrCss-payments.
The provision for depreciation
exceeded the £25,434 capital-
outlay, which covered, among
other things, extensions to the
sheet-metal factory, the con-
servative book-value of fixed
assets falling by £25,282.
The co. has completed an
agreement with Wunderlich,


THE ANGLICAN PRESS LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1936 of the State of New South Wales on March 20, 1957)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £5,000
ISSUE OF £70,000 7% REDEEMABLE MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Redeemable on August 1, 1977, or, at the option of the Company, on August 1, 1972, or August 1, 1967.
Directors:
The Bishop of Armidale
. (Chairman)
P. M. Bowen
A. F. P. James
Canon T. E. Jones, M.B.E.
Harold Morgan
The Reverend F. W. Coaldrake, M.A.,
Th.L.
Joyce M. James
The Reverend T. B. McCall, 8.A.,
Th.Schol.
F. A. Timbury
H. J. Reid
Trustees for the Debenture Stock
Holders:
The Archbishop of Brisbane
The Archbishop of Perth
The Bishop of Newcastle
The Bishop of Ballarat
The Bishop of Tasmania
The Bishop of Gippsland
The Bishop of Adelaide
Further details, with the Prospectus and form of application for
Debenture Stock, will be gladly supplied upon request. Please
fill in the coupon below.
To the Secretary,
The Anglican Press limited,
3-13 Queen Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Would you please supply me with the. Prospectus and Form of
Application of Debenture Stock in the Anglican Press Limited.
Name
Address
Debenture Stock in excess of £55,000 has been allotted in
accordance with the terms of the issue, and has been
employed by the Press in the production of books, news-
papers, magazines, brochures, leaflets, cards, account books
and other high quality printed material since October, 1957.
The Directors have resolved to receive applications for the
remaining £15,000 in order to finance further expansion of
plant and to provide additional working capital to meet the
expected increased scale of operations.
Applications, in multiples of £5, will be received until the
issue is filled or until July 31, 1958, whichever date is the
earlier.
Ltd., under which if will
manufacture alum i nium
curtain-walling and window-
frames (widely used in modern
commercial buildings) to
designs supplied by the Cupples
Corp., of U.S.A. With the
introduction of these new lines,
the improved rate of home-
building in W.A. (first evident
towards the close of last term)
and a continuing demand for
crockery, sheet-metal and stain-
less-steel products, the outlook
for the balance of the current
term seems reasonably bright.
The f.-p. £1 ords. would
return £6 6s. 4d. p.c. from a
12| p.c. div. at last week’s price
of 395. 9d. Net tangible cover
at June 30 last was 325. 9d.
New Guinea Goldfields
A SUBSTANTIAL loss from
alluvial workings and
severe restrictions on logging
activities combined, last term,
to halve the net earnings of
New Guinea Goldfields, Ltd,
Something of a disappointment
ever since it was floated in
1929, N.G.G. has shown signs
of becoming a more reliable
profit-winner in the last few
years, and lower mining-costs
and a larger timber-quota
promise to make the current
term a more profitable one.
At the same time, increased
ore-reserves, expanding trading-
interests and a new coffee
venture have given a greater
degree of permanency to future
operations. New Guinea gold-
miner, sawmiller and trader,
the co. has found the logging
side of its business the most
profitable in recent years.
Since the last div. was sent
out, in December, 1955, paid
capital has been reduced by
£167,712 to £782,659, 6d. a
share being returned in Novem-
ber, 1956, and a further 3d.
last month, leaving the scrip
with a face-value of 3s. 6d.
The shares originally had a
par-value of £l, but 15s. per
share was jettisoned in 1935,
when overvalued properties
were written- down by
£2,891,728, and the balance,
9d. per share, returned in 1940.
A complete change-over from
underground to opencut
mining has been deferred for
some months by the discovery
of extensions to an ore-body at
Anderson’s Creek, but two-
thirds of the 40,606 tons of ore
(down 3386 tons) handled by
the mill over the year to June
30 last was won by opencut
methods. The mill-feed, averag-
ing 0.3480 z. gold, as against
0.3720 z. in the previous term,
yielded 12,5020 z. gold (down
1810 oz.) and 14,8320 z. silver
(down 30940 z.).
The higher proportion of
opencut mining contributed to
a reduction in operating-costs,
but this was more than can-
celled-out by the difficulties
experienced at the Koranga
joint-workings (a sluicing ven-
ture) where continual caving
and a shortage of water caused
a loss' (to the co.) of £22,854.
As a result, net profit from
mining fell by £36,844 to
£17,268, after allowing for a
little-altered gold-subsidy of
£27,917.
Due to Government forest-
conservation measures limiting
the timber-cut (since relaxed
temporarily, to the extent of
1,000,000 super.-feet in case of
N.G.G.), output from the saw-
mill slipped by 958,926 super.-
feet to 1,894,806 super.-feet,
and there was a corresponding
decline in the quantity of
timber carried by the co.-
owned fleet of road-freighters.
Profit from all non-mining
activities, including £6564 from
trading depots at Lae and Wau,
dropped by £32,542 to £53,081,
net profit from all sources
tumbling from £139,735 to
£70,349, or 8.9 p.c. of the
present paid capital.
Sampling, pitting and drill-
ing of the auriferous breccia at
Golden Peaks disclosed a “sub-
stantial tonnage” of ore con-
sidered to be of millable grade,
ore reserves at June 30 last
being estimated at 201,380 tons,
averaging 0.3390 z. gold, an
increase of 54,136 tons over the
year.
Encouraged by the success of
early coffee-plantings in the
Wau Valley, the board has
decided to increase the rate of
planting on its coffee-planta-
tion. An area of 40 acres is
now in various stages of culti-
vation, and this is to be in-
creased to 100 acres in the
“immediate future,” with a
marketable output expected
next season from the three acres
originally planted. A yield of
a half to one ton per acre is
anticipated after four years, the
value of the output being esti-
mated (on present prices) at
approximately £670 per ton.
At balance-date current
assets, £263,314 (including
£94,738 in stores) exceeded
liabilities by £230,076, the mine
property figuring in the
accounts at £502,468 and fixed
assets at £469,532.
The f.-p. 3s. 6d. shares are
currently fetching around 2s.


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies Zfr
Yearly Subscription .. 22] 6
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
A DEVICE in fiction is to
** take under observation a
well-ordered community, to go
beneath the surface of its
apparent respectability and to
come out with some quite
astonishing disclosures. And
occasionally, through the
medium of the courts, a spot-
light on real life proves that
truth can, indeed, be stranger
than fiction. Few of us, it is
held, are so blameless that our
lives can stand up to close
examination.
So neither administrative
politics nor money would
appear to have much chance of
emerging untarnished from
such scrutiny.
In the event, they have. The
judicial inquiry into the alleged
U.K. bank-rate leakage has
revealed absolutely nothing
amiss in the machinery of
government or in the processes
of the City, despite the evidence
of 366 witnesses.
Whether this expensive and
time-consuming anticlimax will
make party-warfare less irres-
ponsible remains to be seen,
but it will be long remembered
as the “smear that failed.”
Harold Wilson’s letter to the
Prime Minister early in
October was justified, because
the City was then buzzing with
rumors. At the Prime Minister’s
request, the Lord Chancellor
conducted an inquiry and
decided there were no grounds
for a further investigation.
But Mr. Wilson wouldn’t let
go. He told the House that
many people in the City thought
something improper did occur,
but were hanging back “because
of City loyalty to a Conserva-
tive Government.” The Prime
Minister refused to be in-
fluenced by this innuendo, and
the Opposition demanded to
know who had called on the
Chancellor of the Exchequer
the day before the increase. Mr.
Thorneycroft refused to
answer, on the ground that
there was no obligation on a
Minister to give such an
account to the House.
Then, six weeks after the
letter, Sir Leslie Plummer
“named” Mr. Oliver Poole, the
Conservative-party vice-chair-
man, - asking whether Mr.
Thorneycroft had seen him.
and adding that Mr. Poole had
“vast City interests.”
By this time the tally of
suspects and red-herrings was
getting large. Mr. Thorney-
croft appeared to be holding
something back; the Lord
Chancellor’s integrity was
impugned; and, under the
shelter of Parliamentary
privilege, Mr. Poole’s good
name was besmirched with
venal implications. He had no
alternative but to ask for an
“ There's too much culture in this country these days—
that's why We're all neurotic."
inquiry, and the Prime Minister
was obliged to give way.
Side-issues
What are the reactions? The
first is that, as with any other
false accusation, the accusers
are themselves the most dis-
credited.
On the whole, commentators
think the inquiry was worth
while because its findings have
intensified foreign confidence
in British political and
monetary systems, although
some observers consider that
Mr. Macmillan could learn to
handle such issues more tact-
fully.
But there are two
important talking-points. One
is a matter of public-relations
■—whether or not, on important
occasions, Ministers should give
background - information to
persons outside the Govern-
ment and the civil service.
Here Mr. Thorneycroft took
the unusual course of inviting
specified journalists whom he
interviewed individually. Since
he ignored the large-circulation
popular papers there was some
bad feeling, which could have
been avoided by calling the
normal press-conference.
The second is the structure of
the board of the Bank of Eng-
land : should its directors, men
with outside interests, be
tempted or embarrassed with
situations which bring their
two occupations in conflict?
Certainly the present set-up
can scarcely escape revision.
On the one hand, the directors’
approval to a change in bank-
rate is pure formality ; and, on
the other, they can be embar-
rassed by informed knowledge
just at the time when, privately,
their counsel is most needed.
Petticoat Sanctions
nrHE English Stage Company’s
latest experiment is another
sensation, having earned an
immediate transfer from Sloane
Square to St. Martin’s Lane.
This new long-runner (for such
it is bound to be) is a trifle
written over 2000 years ago
by that well-born man-about-
town Aristophanes.
Nothing has been spared to
give the comedy—the notorious
“Lysistrata,” in a new version
by Dudley Fitts —authenticity
of background and presenta-
tion. A Greek (M in o s
Volanakis) produces ; another
(Nicholas Georgiadis) has
designed the costumes and the
voluptuous three-tiered set; the
music, enough in quantity for
an operetta, is in Byzantine
modes and rhythms; and the
dances, no less abundant, are
based on Greek folk-dances.
Other touches, sedulously
thought-out and applied, will
impress the classical scholar.
While, correctly, plot and
characterisation are avoided,
the order and style of the
presentation are traditional.
There is no organic form as
such, but there is nothing hap-
hazard in the free treatment of
the theme and variations.
The theme is feminine despair
at deprivations (largely marital)
and the silliness of a 21-year-
long war; and the variations
are the reactions, both male and
female, when, at Lysistrata’s
instigation, the women of both
factions wilfully segregate
themselves in the Acropolis,
withholding themselves until
the stupid men have, as it were,
kissed and made friends.
What a theme for a satirical
comedy! And how those
Athenians, besieged and war-
weary, must have sat back and
laughed themselves breathless
during the State-sponsored
feast of Dionysus! It was
certainly a much more satis-
fying, if less inhibited, form
of escapism than the telly.
But such humor* though a
godsend to the box-office,
pervades uneasily the tasteful
decorum of Sloane Square,
making a travesty of our
theatrical censorship: one
notorious obscenity is quite
without parallel in the theatre.
(By comparison, the cabinet-
scene from “The Country Wife”
is baby-talk.) And, in all truth,
it’s this sort of thing that
brings ’em in.
Since dramatic criticism is
not‘directly concerned with the
vagaries of social behavior it
only remains to be - said that
the evening is not wholly
successful. Whatever its merits,
the traditional approach does
not make for clarity. The
production needs pointing and
is altogether too busy ; stylistic
treatment and uniformly bright
lighting would have been more
effective. A sense of rhythm is
absent, as is light and shade.
But Joan Greenwood’s
Lysistrata is excellent, combin-
ing lush femininity with
sophistication, humorous
delight in the predicament of
her fellows and a chuckling
sense of purpose. This sureness
and keen definition is less
evident among the other
members of a very large cast.


The Walnut Bed
By H. CLIVE MORTON
SUGAR-TOWN.
Friday morning. Fri-\
day morning in the }
crushing. Above all, the
chimney-stack of the sugar-
mill, black with a lying
frivolity of red band ; from it
smoke, heavy with megass,
drifts impartially across the
town, dropping a fine, grey mist.
Megass on macaroni, counter-
stacked, cased in the Italian
grocer’s; macaroni, twenty-
pence a pound, a yard long. . .
Further down the street, the
one street, drifting through the
doorways, filming the shone
glass of the trading-bank,
murking the film-advertisement
of Monroe, balloon-breasted,
ruby-tongued. . .
On, into the next shop,
megass on the bacon-cutters,
on the gleam of clinical chrome,
the surgical enamel on the glory
of slice-adjuster, wafer to wide.
From the street schoolboys,
satchelled, bare-footed, pass-
ing and pausing, watching the
bacon-cutters hopefully, avid
on memory of a shop-assistant’s
sliced fingers, restless at a threat
of school bell.
On the outskirts of town,
high on a snobbery of foothills,
free from the threat of megass,
a woman pegs laundered sheets
secure against a wing-flapping
breeze. A late-morning cane-
fire, late through a cane-gang’s
late-night drinking, hisses and
crackles into a billowing of
cloud-reaching smoke. The
breeze picks the burnt fibres,
the ash, from out of the air and
off the stalks, to rock them
gently, cradle-like, across the
paddocks. The woman watches
a settling of them flick and
lodge across the laundered
sheets, spread in wandering
black fingers by moisture and
the sheet-flapping breeze. She
scowls and reaches for a
plastic hose.
Along the web of miniature
railways, locos, dieseled ducks
with automatic clutches and a
waddling of cane-trucks behind,
in eternal restless shuttle from
mill to farm-sidings, cane-
trucks carrying cane to cane-
carrier, hungry metal-jawed
carrier, tearing, gnawing,
raking, rending, spitting pulp
to filter-press lofts
to sweating
stackers, spouting
juice, hot, steamy,
to spinning centri-
fugals.
Near the
’fugals, the mill-
chemist worries
about commercial
cane - sugars ; at
the reservoir, the
shift- engineer
worries over
water-pumps; at the
weighbridge, the cane-
inspector worries about
his wife and the shift-
engineer.
In the town Ernie
Gee Foy leaves his
house. Gee Foy,
burdened with 76 years
and the want of a wife.
'T'RUE, there had once
been a wife. Twenty
years now there had
been a trilogy of birth-,
marriage - and death - day,
three cemetery journeys each
year, flower-laden, but the
years had robbed the visit of
feeling, leaving only a thin,
brittle chrysalis of habit.
His hands are bent in a half-
circle, hoe - moulded. Put
together they would make a
full circle, like his life, spun
once. He knows the feel of
hoe in hand again. He learnt it
young. Plantation-day, kanaka-
days, hoeing grass, hoeing
mothballs under cane-stools in
futile assassination of root-
eating white grubs. Later he
kne\V the feel of horse-rein and,
after that, tractor-wheel. His
own tractor, his own farm. His
own sons hoeing, until the
circle spun once and the hoe
became his, and he became
background against the light of
his sons.
He walks along the street to
where a taxi-driver half-dozing
in a cane-chair on the foot-
path vaguely contemplates the
business aspect of a promis-
ing rain-cloud. Here he pauses
to tap a rich store of know-
ledge.
“Johnny,” he says, “do you
know if Waverly’s still home?”
Johnny stretches and yawns.
There was a fare in the early
hours of the morning. A girl,
a nurse from the hospital, had
telephoned from the beach 10
miles distant. She had gone
there with one of the mill-hands
in his car. He had asked her
to go for a drive with him
after the pictures. She had
gone because the idea of a
moonlight drive to the beach
appealed to her. She cried a
little on the way home, alone
in the taxi. She was a very
young nurse.
*‘Yes,” Johnny said, “he’s
home. Parliament doesn’t kick-
off again for another six days.
He’ll fly down on Tuesday.”
' Johnny knows such things.
Gee Foy nods in acknowledg-
ment of indebtedness and walks
on. Johnny calls to him.
“If you’re driving out, watch
the road. It’s a bit crook since
the last rain.”
Gee Foy turns.
“I won’t be driving, the boys
won’t let me. I try to go in
the store lorry. . .”
To ride on the lorry there
is one man who should be
approached and one man who
must. Gee Foy sees the owner
first.
“It’s all right with me, but
you’ll have to see Billy,” he is
told.
If Billy refuses, the owner
will not insist. There are more
valuable years truck-driving
untouched in the tempera-
mental Billy than there is
custom in Gee Foy.
Billy is in the back of the
shop in the sorting-place. He is
a small, dark, nervous prospect
for a ruptured peptic-ulcer. He
spins a brown-paper bag,
potato - filled, twice between
his thumbs and flicks
it into a grocery-bin.
Behind the bin a pelican-
length of redhead, shock-
haired, uplifted eyebrows
hinting at perpetual surprise,
pats the package into place, and
stands with a sheaf of clutched
dockets. Billy scratches
amongst the boxed groceries.
The redhead observes him
vacantly. Billy scowls, swears,
and bellows. The redhead,
startled, begins his litany.
“Pearce; three pounda
butter, two Cot’ jam, sixer


sugar, dozeneggs, one-a rolled-
oats. . .
Billy’s hands flick-check
across the packages, the red-
head’s voice drones on:
“Antoni, boddle olive-oil,
boxa spaghetti ...”
“Hey,” Billy yells, “you stuck
in bloody sassa. That old tart
’ull roar pies .and pickhandles
out of me for that. Get olio
for God’s sake.”
The redhead wanders away
in unhurried quest.
“Something I can do for you,
Mr. Gee Foy?”
The old man explains hesi-
tantly, a suggestion of lisp
creeping into the thin sentences.
Billy waves a patronising hand.
“Sure, sure, Waverly’s and
back; I’ll be leaving soon.
Where’s that olive-oil?”
BILLY has the ferocious
clutch-stab and gear-
change technique of a man who
doesn’t own what he drives.
Gee Foy sits huddled forward
on the seat, hands between
knees, staring straight ahead.
He doesn’t speak.
Mrs. Waverly answers his
front-door knock. She is a
tall, fair, ageless woman lightly
touched by the parochial pride
of being a politician’s wife. She
offers him tea in butterfly-
Dresden. Gee Foy sits deli-
cately in a cane-chair stirring
a gentle teaspoon when
Waverly enters the room,
shower-clean. His wife seems
no longer tall.
“I had tea earlier,” she lies.
“If you'll excuse me. . .”
“Well, Ernie,” Waverly says,
“what can I do for you?”
Gee Foy leans forward.
Waverly accents the fragility of
a teacup-handle in a curling
of broad index-finger.
“I want a wife,” Gee Foy
announces.
Waverly pauses, cup midway
between table and mouth, eye-
brows rising. He sips, and
returns cup to saucer.
“Well, I’ll be damned,” he
says.
“It is necessary at my age to
have a wife.”
“I’d thought the -necessity
would have passed.”
“No, you find that not so.”
“I hardly think so, Ernie.”
“Oh, yes, you not understand.
In China understand. At my
age man must have wife, young
wife, very young.”
“Be the death of me.”
“No fear, fix you up. Known
very well in China. Very well.
Old man must have young wife.
Only way to keep bones
together”’
“Oh, be damned!”
“Is true. You never hear
before?”
“Never.”
“Lucky I come then. Other-
wise all your bones come apart
later on. Now, you know how
to fix. . .”
Waverly subdues an eye-
twinkle.
“It works then, Ernie?” he
asks. In spite of himself he
has a little genuine curiosity
lightly hidden. Gee Foy leans
back in his chair. Age has
wrinkle-hidden most of the
slant in his eyes, and thinned
the moon-face.
“My oat h,” he says
knowingly. Waverly reaches
for a cigar and lights it. He
doesn’t smoke them as an
emblem of office. He always
smokes cigars. He likes cigars.
Gee Foy refuses.
“Where,” Waverly puffs, “do
I come into this?”
“Well, if I get young wife,
where I find her? Easy. Only
one place. China. Where the
hell else you get young wife
these days? That part all fixed
up. I write to her father. Long
time ago we scratched tin
Cooktown. Hell of a long time
ago.”
“He must be pretty old to
have a young daughter?”
“You see what I mean
young wife?”
“Oh!”
“Anyway, that part all right.
Her father say she’ll come,
she’ll come.”
“How old’s the girl?”
“Sixteen. No dam’ good
getting some old dam’ thing.
I give you all particulars.
Immigration—all dam’ sort of
papers and ’rrangements.
Duplicates, threepennyicates,
plenty papers. No chance me
doing. You could fix it up in
Blisbane plenty, dam’ quick.
All been done before, plenty
time. What you reckon?”
Waverly is as sympathetic a
man as it is sensible to be.
“Well, Ernie, if you want a
wife I suppose we’ll have to
get you one. But sixteen, man!
Break that down a bit. Why
don’t you get someone around
about your own age? Say
twenty or thirty years
younger?”
“No good. Must be young
girl. No work otherwise.”
“But, man —sixteen! Why,
she’s only a child!”
“No fear. Plenty wives
sixteen. My wife first time
sixteen.” v
Waverly moves from custom
to caution.
“But think of the trouble
she’ll cause you, Ernie,” he
pointed out. “There’ll be
plenty of the young blades
around the town eyeing her
off.”
Gee Foy sighs. Over the
years he has grown weary of
the stupidity of logic.
“No matter,” he says.
“My word it would. What
would happen if you came
home one day and found some
young fellow there?”
“No matter. Man can shut
eyes to lot of things for the
sake of his bones. You learn
that one day.”
“Well, what about the boys?
What have they got to say
about it?”
Gee Foy giggles. A rustling
intake and outlet of breath
like a comb passed across old
silk.
“Boys don’t know. Go
stinkin’ mad when find out.
Anyway, too dam’ late then to
do anything. Girl here then.
What you think —you fix up
all right?”
Waverly stroked his chin.
“Oh, I suppose so, Ernie.
Like you say, it’s been done
before.”
Gee Foy smiles. He frees the
visit of business. “Getting
cane off all right?”
“Yes, I’m helping the gang
cut. I got a sore hand out of
it, though. It’s marvellous how
soft your hands get after a
spell in the south.”
Gee Foy agrees.
“You go to town now?”
“Yes, I’ve got the cane-
cutters’ pay to collect. You can
come back with me if you like.”
'T'HEY part at the bank. Gee
Foy walks down the street.
Waverly watches him for a
long moment, a little thought-
fully, a little amused. He
pushes his panama-hat further
back on his forehead. Waverly
wears a panama-hat decisively
and with rare familiarity. Even
strangers in town never mistake
him for a tourist. He glances
down at the tonnage-figures on
the paysheet in his hand. Then
he strides breezily into the
bank.
Gee Foy walks down the
street towards his home. Ahead
of him, surging down the street,
comes a rush of schoolchildren
pouring into a fish-shop like
bargain - hunting housewives.
An ex-schoolteacher, a year
married, a little self-consciously
pregnant, walks past the school-
children crowded at the fish-
shop. Three boys in the
extreme front of the group at
the door find something of
penetrating interest to gaze at
across the street. A girl,
pinafored, buck-teethed, barren-
faced, toe-bounces like an
exercising novice-ballerina.
“Good-morning, Miss Fay-
ton,” she squeaks. Behind her
a boy nudges his friend with
a suggestive elbow.
“Miss!” he says.
Gee Foy passes them. He
is not bent with baskets-on-
yoke, he carries no carrots or
peas. He has none of the
paraphernalia of tradition about
him, nothing to inspire the
daring of tease or to excite
insult. He is almost just an
elderly man walking down the
street. The boys hardly notice
him at all.
In the show-room of Stacey’s
he sees the walnut bed. Wide,
deep, dark-grained walnut with
a steamroller-resistant inner-
spring mattress. Stacey’s
enthusiasm as he shares an
inspection with Gee Foy
belongs more to a maker than
a seller.
Yes, he will keep it .in storage
for a few months ; no, he won’t
mention who is to buy the bed.
He slides a calculating glance
at Gee Foy and finds a link
between the secret of double-
bed-buying and the unmarried
state of Gee Foy’s forty-year-
old son, Ernest. He chuckles.
“Looks like there might be
a wedding one of these days,
eh?” he says. He wonders
idly about Gee Foy’s son and
a widow of interesting reputa-
tion across the river.
Gee Foy nods. “Yes,” he
says.
Stacey winks. “Keeping the
bed as a bit of a surprise for
young Ernie, eh?”
“Maybe a bit of surprise for
all boys. .
lay raked in
crisped, burning windrows,
paddock - edges retreated
at the cane - knives and
the empty beerbottles, piles
mounting along cane-barrack
walls and verandas, measured
passing time.
Even the rats, the long-tailed,
cane-gnawing rats, made
preparation for the passing of
the season, fleeing before cane-
fires to panicum-grass cover of
riverbank retreats. Spinning
disks bit hangar-deep, and
behind, in the turned furrows,
the white - bodied armor -
headed frenchii-grubs wriggled
awkwardly on the saucered
earth and burrowed deep into
the soft furrow-thrown side
away from the sun.
The machinery of migration
of a female Oriental had
moved elephant-ponderous yet
with exquisite thoroughness
away from Waverly and passed
into the comfortable and safe
precedent of regulation. It
lingered now in jigsaw parts
in many places. A fragment
(Continued on page 57)


Writers’ Workshop
By OLAF RUHEN
THROUGHOUT the
American summer, when
teachers are at a loose
end, when colleges are
conveniently unoccupied and
life is much too pleasant to
devote too great a portion of
it to one’s desk, the Writers’
Conference flourishes.
Almost anywhere in that
great land of contradictions one
is liable to come across whole
communities of earnest word-
smiths who, though they walk
in sun-dappled lanes, or sprawl
on leafy lawns, betray by their
expressions that the forges are
burning-hot and the anvils ring-
ing to the hammer-blows; or
that at any rate this activity will
spring to life the moment they
have the material to work upon,
Every year since 1925, when
the idea began, the numbers of
these conferences have
increased ; each year a more
formidable army of successful
writers shares the secrets of its
methods with less fortunate,
less able, or less energetic
recruits. And each conference
has, in addition, sorpe special
feature to elicit the support of
an ever-growing section of the
ink-slinging fraternity, or
perhaps I should say, in
deference to the overwhelming
majority, sorority! The cream
of the year’s crop, for
ingenuity at least, was probably
the Writer’s Floating Work-
shop, which, on the Queen of
Bermuda, sailed from New
York into the Caribbean sun-
rise, with daily workshop
sessions conducted round the
swimming-pool.
Twenty - three conferences
covering every section of the
country lasted from one to
three weeks each; 24 less-
lengthy conferences catered for
busier writers.. Some were
arranged by colleges and uni-
versities, some by groups more
directly associated with the
trade (the Ohio Poetry Society,
South Texas Byliners, the
Panhandle Pen .Women, the
Arkansas Pioneer Branch of
the National League of
American Pen Women, and
others).
Staffs are impressive and
expensive, by Australian
standards. Take the Suffield
Writer-Reader Conference, held
between Hartford and Spring-
field in Connecticut, where last
year instruction was available
from Louis Untermeyer,
Padrajc Colum, George Abbe,
Shirley Barker, Odell Shepard,
Agnes Sligh Trumbull, James
T. Farrell, and several more,
Such names, of course, ensure
support. If you are not listen-
ing to the great you may,
perhaps, be rubbing shoulders
with them. And if that is not
a sufficient inducement to pay
your money and sign on the
dotted line, there are others,
The Pacific Northwest Inter-
national Writers’ Conference
(“international” because
inclusive of Canada) advertises
a cruise on Puget Sound and
a salmon barbecue. Numbers
of conferences have round
$lOOO in cash-prizes for literary
effort. The Laurentian Writers
offer a tour to Mount Tremb-
lant thrown in with the $75
fee, and, perhaps because this
one is .exclusively for women,
a shopping-tour in Ste. Agathe.
The Antioch Writers throw in
a Shakspeare Festival; the
Southwest Writers’ Conference
(in Texas) offers autograph
parties (try and stop them),
sailing, and a visit to the King
Ranch. The Southwest Writers’
Workshop and Conference (in
Arizona) on its last two days
joins up with an Annual All-
Indian Pow-Wow and Rodeo —
enough material surely for
another twelve months of shoot-
and-gallop.
Fees range from a modest
$l5 a week to something over
$lOO. There’s no good rule-of-
thumb ; but it seems better in
most instances to dig deeper.
And is it worth it? My own
answer is a strong and con-
vinced affirmative.
A STORY is told of Red
(Sinclair) Lewis that,
having been invited to address
a conference, he looked the
audience over, took a sip of
water from the carafe, and
asked: “How many of you
people really want to write?”
Practically everybody indicated
an alliance with this ambition,
whereupon he said, “Well,
what the hell are you doing
here? Why don’t you go home
and write?”
I had this and other con-
siderations in mind before I
decided to attend a conference.
My choice was Bread Loaf. Not
only was it the parent con-
ference and the one which
(through an article in
“Harper’s” by Bernard de
Voto) had first brought con-
ferences into my mind, but it
was well staffed, it was located
in Vermont —a country with
which I fell in love back in
the war years and “Bread
Loaf” is a daddy of a name.
But I wasn’t sure whether
the best of conferences would
be really worth while. I asked
advice from Stuart Rose, an
editor of the “Saturday Even-
ing Post.” He looked at me
and asked, “Do you want to
learn anything there?”
I said “No.”
“Then go by all means,” he
advised. “You’ll have a
wonderful time. If you’d said
Yes I’d have advised you to
stay away.”
That was sound, I thought,
and I entered my application.
Stuart had some more com-
ments.
“You know, I’ve been asked
to lecture at these things, and I
won’t do it. I’ll lecture on
aspects of the publishing
game, which I know ; and of
which a large part is mechani-
cal ; but I won’t tell authors
how to write. Either you can
write or you cart’t and you have
to find out for yourself. It’s
a matter of feeling.”
f TpHAT is perhaps right. But
there are large numbers of
authors who do not know the
physical requirements of the
trade, and others who, without
realising it, misdirect their
energies. And the list of
authors who were Fellows once
at Bread Loaf Conference—the
Fellows are students of promise
who have their fees paid for
them —is impressive, ft includes
Eud o r a Welty, Catherine
Drinker Bowen, Virginia Soren-
son, John Ciardi and Fletcher
Pratt. A. B. Guthrie was a
young writer who had Bread
Loaf advice and help on his
book The Big Sky, and actually
made arrangements there to sell
the manuscript, a publisher’s
representative being on the
spot. It made him a million,
and it also created a legend
round the place, giving the
strongest kind of faith to new
writers.
If I had judged by surface
indications, I might have been
deeply disappointed in Bread
Loaf. There were two hundred


~>r
r
■
■
•m
s
VA
This Bank
helps young people
who plan ahead
This Bank takes a special interest in young people
who plan tor their future. There are many ways in
which its facilities, its experience and knowledge can
help them achieve their ambitions.
ft
¥
II you have set yourself a
goal, open a C.B.C. savings
account this week and watch
your savings grow.
All deposits in the C.B.C.
Savings Bank are guaranteed
by the parent company The
Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited .
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVIN6S BANK
LIMITED
of us there, from most Ameri-
can States and Canada, myself
from Australia, and two writers,
man and wife, from South
Africa. These latter, however,
stayed only two days. We were
accommodated in a collection
of “cottages” and an inn ; very
amply accommodated, with one,
or at the most two, in large,
well-kept, sunny rooms.
Each day there were five
hours of lectures or public
criticism, and most evenings
there were talks of a couple of
hours’ duration.
The Barn, which had once
been a barn, a huge draughty
building filled with tables on
which reposed the literary work
of both staff and “students,”
dispensed coffee and snacks at
most hours. It had no licence,
but most rooms had a good
private stock of liquor, and
the bottles usually made an
evening appearance on the Barn
tables.
From the lectures, as I had
anticipated, I learned very little.
The lecturers tackled writing
from the rudiments upwards
through to the tested selling
formulae. They were sound
and incisive in the main ; they
dealt drastically with the
common faults of the amateur;
they showed how to develop
plot and story-line; they out-
lined the best approaches to
publishers and editors; they
solved the problems, or some
of the problems, involved in
choosing agents ; they set out
the material requirements of
the trade in the presentation of
manuscripts; they revealed
their own working secrets.
SOME of this was interesting
but, I felt, hardly helpful.
Nancy Hale, for example, one
of the most direct and clear-
thinking authors I have ever
met, yet amazed me when she
said she rewrote every contri-
bution between five and ten
times, usually seven. I felt that
while that might be her method
a very personal one ; it
was no more useful to know
that than to know, for example,
that Stewart Holbrook types
with his two middle-fingers;
which in his case was not dis-
closed in his lectures.
And some of the aspects of
writing which most interest me
—for example, the rhythms of
prose—were not mentioned.
- No one said, as I would have
said, “Don’t write unless you
have something to say, or some-
thing to write about.” In fact,
a good many authors said the
opposite, producing an effect on
me similar to that a Quaker
o Continued on page 56)


COMMON MARKET OR
FREE-TRADE AREA?
A SUBJECT that is bound to have
been under discussion while
U.K. Prime Minister Macmillan
was in Canberra is the European
Common Market scheme, and Britain’s
attitude towards it.
The Common Market is the latest pro-
duct of a movement that had its
beginnings in the early post-war years,
when Europe was still busy sweeping-
away the dust and debris of war.
Marshall Aid, the European Payments
Union, the Council of Europe, Benelux,
the Organisation for European Economic
Co-operation and the European Coal and
Steel Community all sprang from a
realisation of the necessity for co-opera-
tion among the nations of Europe.
Britain was associated with some, but
not all, of these organisations. It is a
member of 0.E.E.C., but not of the Coal
and Steel Community, though it has an
agreement for consultation with it. In
considering involvement in European
trade-blocs the U.K. has the difficult
problem*of having to weigh the impor-
tance of holding or developing its very
considerable Continental markets against
the equally vital —if not more vital —one
of keeping faith with the Dominions.
Origins of E.C.S.C.
r T''HE European Coal and Steel Com-
munity arose out of a proposal made
by French Foreign Minister Schuman in
May, 1950. He urged that France and
Germany should put their coal and steel
production under the direction of a
single authority and invite other
European countries to join them in the
project. In the following year a treaty
was signed by the Foreign Ministers of
France, Germany, Italy, Holland,
Belgium and Luxembourg and, after
ratification, it came into force on July 25,
1952.
The Coal and Steel Community was
something new in European co-operation.
It was not merely an inter-Governmental
organisation ; it was more of a federa-
tion—an economic federation which
could be the forerunner of a political
federation. The treaties setting it up pro-
vided for the abolition of import and
export quotas, State subsidies and charges
and all practices discriminating among
producers, buyers or consumers.
How It Works
T>OLICY-MAKING and executive tasks
A of the Community are placed in the
hands of a High Authority, which consists
of nine members, of whom not more
than two may be of the same nationality.
It is elected for six years, and has supra-
national authority over the coal and steel
industries of the member-countries. A
Common Assembly of 78 members —
France, Germany and Italy each 18;
Belgium and Holland each 10; Luxem-
bourg four —is the Parliament of the
Community ; it reviews the work of the
High Authority, considers its annual
report and approves its Budget.
A Council of Ministers (usually the
Foreign Ministers of the six countries)
co-ordinates the actions of the High
Authority with the economic policies of
the member-countries and has a voice in
any decisions on market-control. There is
also a Court of Justice to which appeals
may be made against decisions of any of
the foregoing bodies.
Finally there is a Consultative
Committee of from 30-51 members
appointed by the Couno£ of Ministers
from representatives of producers, con-
sumers and labor.
Integration of the two industries of
the Community was gradual. A common
market for coal, iron-ore and scrap-iron
came into being in February, 1953 ; for
ordinary steel three months later. Special
steels were not brought into the scheme
until April, 1954. The six countries have
a combined population of 165 million and
they produce 14 per cent, of the world’s
coal, 19 per cent, of its iron-ore and 17
per cent, of its crude steel.
Other countries were invited to join
the Community. None has done so, but
several have accredited delegations to the
High Authority and keep in close touch
with its operations. In December, 1954,
Britain signed an agreement establishing
a Standing Council of Association con-
sisting of fqur British representatives and
four representatives of the High
Authority. The purpose was stated to be
continuous consultations in regard to
matters of mutual interest relating to coal
and steel and, where appropriate, in regard
to the co-ordination of action to d^l
with these matters.
At a meeting last October this Council
reached an agreement on proposals for
a reduction of iron-and-steel tariffs in
the U.K. and the E.C.S.C.
The Common Market
■pfROM a common market for coal and
F steel to a common market for all
goods produced in the six countries
seems a natural transition. The propo-
sition was first discussed at a conference
of the six Powers at Messina in June,
1955, and details were thrashed out at
subsequent meetings. Negotiations have
not proceeded without misgivings on the
part of some members. France, in par-
ticular, has been hesitant at times, due,
apparently, to a fear that Germany might
come to dominate the sfcheme and so
achieve economic ascendancy in Europe.
At the same time it has also realised that
to stay outside such a plan would be
equivalent to handing Germany economic
ascendancy on a plate.
At the Brussels meeting last year the
French representative voiced fears that a
common market would weaken the
economies of the weaker members,
especially those with overseas commit-
ments. To this M. Spaak of Belgium-
long an advocate of closer European co-
operation—replied
There is not a word of truth in your
allegation. It seems to me you have a
curious view of your country’s future — a
strange mixture of grandeur and nationalism
on the one hand and a terrible inferiority-
complex on the other. I am astonished that
, a Frenchman should express these views
when Belgians, Dutchmen and Italians are
prepared to go forward.
All six countries have now agreed to go
forward, and the first stage of the
European Common Market will come
into operation on January 1, 1959.
The-common market is to be established
progressively, in three stages, each of
four years’ duration. If the objectives of
the first stage have not been reached at
the end of four years the period may.be
extended by agreement by one or two
years, and a similar provision applies to
the final stage. Organisation for control
of the European Common Market is very
similar to that of E.C.S.C., but in addition
there is provision for a European Invest-
ment Bank and a European Social Fund
to defray costs of retaining and resettling
workers who may be displaced through
the scheme.
U.K. Attitude
X)RITAIN has remained outside the
** Common Market and while giving it
general approval has been trying to
interest Europe in its own plan for a Free
Trade Area which would embrace the six
E.C.S.C. countries and also the United
Kingdom, Scandinavia, Austria and
Switzerland. The two essential points of
difference are that the free trade would
apply to industrial products only and not
to primary produce; secondly, that it
would only apply to trade within the
area —each country would still decide its
own tariffs with the outside world.
Britain’s purpose is twofold —to protect
its own farmers and to maintain the status
quo in trade with Commonwealth
countries.
Defending this course a few months
ago, Mr. Macmillan said that his
Government did not see any contradiction
between its determination that inter-
Commonwealth trade should grow and
the proposal for a free flow of trade in
industrial products in Europe. Britain
hoped this might lead to greater industrial
efficiency through the greater use of
specialisation and mass-production tech-
niques, with a consequent rise in living-
standards in Europe. “Not merely will
there be an increase in our wealth and
well-being, but we must automatically
become —all of us, Britain and Europe,
too —increased markets for all that the
Commonwealth and other countries have
to sell.”
So far Europe seems unimpressed by
this argument.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Melbourne Racing
At the furlong-post in last
Saturday’s Lightning Stakes
Dubbo, who had led from
barrier-rise, looked like living
up to his reputation. To the
amazement of the crowd who
had forced Dubbo’s price
down to 4-to-l on, the two-
year-old colt Misting dashed
out of the ruck and cut the
leader down on the line.
• • • •
Misting’s performance was
exceptionally good. He lost a
good six lengths at the start,
but was still able to run the
distance in 58} seconds, just
half -a - second outside All
Love’s track-record. Melbourne
racegoers knew Misting was
good—his spring form, when
he won the Debutant Stakes
and Rawdon Stakes, proved
that —but few gave him a
chance of beating the older
horses at weight-for-age. Not
even the most experienced
pressmen at the course could
remember the last time a two-
year-old had won in the
autumn under the scale.
Misting gets his speed and
his grey coat from his sire,
Meadow Mist. He was bred
by V.R.C. chairman Sir
Chester Manifold and is raced
by Lady Manifold and her
daughter Sally. His programme
includes the Merson Cooper
Stakes at Caulfield on Satur-
day week and the V.R.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes at Flemington
on March 1. It will be interest-
ing to see how he measures up
against Sandhurst, who
stamped himself Australia’s
best colt during the spring
carnival.
Caulfield Selections:
Oakleigh Plate: Dubbo, 1 ;
High Gun, 2 ; Winglow, 3.
St. George Stakes: Tulloch,
1; Prince Darius, 2; Lord
Gavin, 3.
• • • •
For the second year in suc-
cession Sailor’s Guide won the
W.F.A. Blarney Stakes. Against
a poor field he won as easily
as his price—11-to-2 on—
suggested he should. “Sailor”
has now won £56,944, more
money than any other horse
still racing. It is a wonderful
total for a horse who has had
to battle against such cham-
pions as Rising Fast, Redcraze,
Syntax and Tulloch. Those
four all proved themselves
better than the Bendigo horse,
but “Sailor,” thanks to a stout
heart and an iron constitution,
picks-up races whenever the
opposition slackens. In all, he
has raced 51 times for 16 wins
and 19 minor places. He is
still as sound as a bell, and
will go on adding to his stake-
earnings.
Incidentally, boo kmakers
must wish the Blarney Stakes
had never been inaugurated. It
has been run only four times,
“Gad, sir —haven't seen a white man for months!”
and each time has been won by
the odds-on favorite.
It was suggested here last
week that Nilento might prove
a cut above average. The Nilo
gelding confirmed that im-
pression with a good win in the
six-furlongs Criterion Handi-
cap for two-year-olds at Flem-
ington. Ken Smith, who rode
the winner, almost threw the
race away by overconfidence.
Sitting quietly on Nilento, it
looked as if he failed to see
Chi Chi sneak through on the
rails. However, Nilento had
enough in hand to win well. He
will now have to carry a good
horse’s weight, but his winning
run will probably continue.
Nilento is by Nilo (imp.) from
Posture, an unraced New
Zealand mare, by Spiral, whose
sire Limond got so many good
stayers.
• ■#! •
Tommy Smith gained some
consolation for Dubbo’s costly
defeat, when Colorado Drawl
won the 10-furlongs Fentona
Handicap for three-year-olds.
The winner showed strong
staying-ability by coming from
well back at the straight
entrance. He is entered for the
Australian Cup and St. Leger,
but his Victorian owner,
Geelong studmaster F. W.
Green, said the gelding would
not run in either event. He
will be spelled shortly, with the
hope that he develops into a
Cup horse next spring. Oaks
winner Amarco, a 50-to-l
chance in the race, impressed
with a sustained run into third
place in the Fentona; she
should soon pick up a race.
*.* * ’
Keen interest was taken in
an exhibition gallop by Tulloch
at Caulfield last Saturday.
Ridden by veteran Les Whittle,
Tulloch covered six furlongs
comfortably in 1.14}, speeding-
up over the last half-mile in
47}sec. The champion looked
lighter than he did in the
spring, but Whittle was full of
praise for the gallop, and gave
his opinion that Tulloch would
go through the autumn
undefeated.
Melbourne’s autumn carnival
gets under way at Caulfield
next Saturday, where the
feature races will be the s}-
furlongs Oakleigh Plate and the
9-furlongs St. George Stakes.
The Plate dates back to 1884,
and in all that time only one
horse has been able to win the
race more than once. That was
Aurie’s Star, probably the best
sprinter ever to race in Aus-
tralia, who won the Plate in
1937 and 1939. Last year
Adelina set record time for the
race when she won in 1.3.9/10.
* * *
—and Sydney
An interesting two-year-old
contested the Canterbury Park
first sprint for that age-group
and finished third after being
fifth at the home-turn. He was
the unusually-named Sez You,
a. 50-to-l chance. He had
started once before, at Warwick
Farm in November, but didn’t
show up.
....
Sez You cost 2200gns. at the
New Zealand yearling-sales in
January of last year, and is
trained at Randwick by Frank
Dalton for E. Montgomery,
The interesting factor is that
he’s a half-brother to Prince
Cortauld, whose 25 wins and
minor placings earned £51,050 ;
the Prince won races from five
to 14 furlongs, wins including
the £lO,lOO V.R.C. Queen
Elizabeth Stakes and the
A.J.C. Queen Elizabeth Stakes.
Sez You is by Lucky Bag (imp.),
from Capricious, by Night Raid
(imp.), and is bred to stay for
a week. His first win seems
close at hand.
• • • •
When there’s a rain-soaked
track smart trainers generally
take advantage of an apprentice
allowance, especially when such
claim is for seven pounds. Rose-
hill mentor Col Papworth
engaged apprentice J. Hampton,
who has a seven-pounds
allowance, for his sprinter
Heroic Victory in the Flying
Handicap at Canterbury
Park and saw the Hua
gelding win easily. Heroic
Victory was always favorite.
Young Hampton rode the geld-
ing skilfully and deserved his
success. Progeny of Hua have
shown ability on heavy ground.
Both Heroic Victory and
Johnno, the following winner at
Canterbury, are by that well-
known sire.
• • • •
Johnno’s brother, Elegant
Lad, was a smart winner on
Sydney tracks while Iroquois,
another of his relatives, won
several sprints in the best com-
pany at suburban courses and


at Randwick. Johnno won his
first race, Canterbury Park
First Two-year-old Handicap,
in promising style. Johnno cost
700gns. as a yearling. He was
bred by C. Ellis, of Kerrabee,
and reared at Oakleigh stud,
Widden Valley.
• • •: 4:
Though George Moore is
showing his thick-and-thin sup-
porters a tidy profit since the
season began, a certain section
of the Saturday race-crowd
appear to be making it a habit
of hooting him whether he
wins or loses. There has been
no justification for the
demonstrations, and the heck-
lers at Canterbury were out-
numbered by those cheering
Moore for his fine win on
Game - Archer. The previous
week Moore , had been beaten
into third place on that
galloper when the Rosehill
sprint went to the T. J. Smith-
trained Plymouth. Game
Archer’s sire, Stockade (imp.),
has thrown several capable
mudlarks, and his dam, Mid-
wise, knew how to race through
a soft track.
• • • •
Alec Higgins, who has been
having a good run with his
horses at recent Sydney meet-
ings, bred and races Tout
Rouge, winner of the Campsie
Stakes at Canterbury despite his
9st, Tout Rouge is partial to
heavy going, and the track con-
ditions suited him admirably.
His backers at short odds
weren’t perturbed when he was
running along leisurely in last
place for more than half the
11 furlongs and 65yds., as they
knew he would be putting in
his best work over the final
stages. This he did, scoring
comfortably. Tout Rouge now
goes into open company as he
isn’t eligible for additional
restricted events. His sire,
Genetout (imp.), has sired many
winners on soft tracks while his
dam, Red Army, is by Simeon’s
Fort (imp.), whose stock also
have shown to advantage under
such conditions. Higgins bred
lout Rouge at his Piercefield
stud, Muswellbrook. The geld-
ing’s best - known relative
Lavendo won, among other
races, the Caulfield Cup.
* * *
“Sawtell”: P. O. MacCabe’s
memory did not serve him
correctly (B. 25/12/’57). Free-
dom, who once beat Comic
Court at weight-for-age, was
sired by Burhan Ali, not John
Buchan. Incidentally, Freedom
is now at the stud in Malaya.
• • • •
“W.E.P.”: Former Sydney
Cup winner Bankstream, a
good staying Midstream horse,
goes as a sire to Clifton, near
Warwick (Q.), having been
bought by Lionel Penhalagon
from Brisbane trainer Athol
Strong. Bankstream beat a
couple of good ones when he
won his Cup in 1950; he
•downed Comic Court and
Playboy by five lengths.
• • • •
4 ‘ B o b a d i 1” : Australia’s
greatest stake-winning mare,
Evening Peal, retired to the
Kia Ora Stud, Scone (N.S.W.),
and there to be mated with
Double Bore (imp.), could
produce something extra-good.
The sire is descended from
one of the greatest* mares ever
seen on the English turf. This
was Pretty Polly, winner of 22
races from 24 starts and idol
of every English racegoer 50 or
so years back. Bred in Ireland,
she had her first race at San-
down Park one Saturday after-
noon in June, 1903. She won
by 30 or 40 yards and in every
subsequent start was at odds-
on, with her admirers often
laying as much as 25 to 1 on.
You can still buy yourself
trouble in England if you
venture to doubt whether
Pretty Polly was the best filly
that ever raced.
Melbourne Cup winner
Dalray, whose oldest progeny
are two-year-olds, sired Grand
Garry, winner of Ipswich (Q.)
First Two-year-old Maiden in
a close finish. The gelding’s
dam, Lanky Lass, wasn’t raced.
She is by Highland Laddie
(imp.), from Perfect Morn, by
Rivoli, and is a half-sister to
Basha Felika, a winner of the
Caulfield Cup. Staratom, which
landed the Second Maiden at
the Ipswich fixture, was sold
as a yearling at the Randwick
auction in April last year for
1500gns. She is a Star King-
dom (imp.) filly.
If increased weight does not
put him out of the game, Vic-
torian apprentice Geoff Lane
may develop into one of the
best riders the Australian Turf
has known. For the past three
years he has topped the list of
indentured riders, and week
after week this season he is
giving further proof of his
top-class ability.
* * *
Trotting
The 11,000-odd people who
braved the elements at Harold
Park Trots on Saturday night
saw another promising three-
year-old (Illawarra Ayr) win his
fourth race in succession there
—this time in pouring rain. A
heavy storm broke about six-
o’clock and lasted fdr some
time, drenching an already wet
track. It continued to rain
intermittently all night. The
track raced remarkably well,
though no records were broken.
Illawarra Ayr (favorite at
6-to-4 on) won the Three-year-
old Stakes by two lengths from
Blue Goose, with Slumber
another half-length further
back. It is believed an offer of
£6OOO has been refused for
Illawarra Ayr, whose next
objective will be the Sires’
Produce Stakes at Harold Park
on March 7 and 15.
• • • •
Champion mare Sibelia won
the Harold Park Handicap by
a length from Determined Boy,
with Robert Sheen another two
lengths away third. Sibelia
started from the rails position,
and took full advantage of this
by getting away smartly to lead
the field early. Powerful Lady
made a smart run and took the
lead, but Sibelia easily went to
the front in the last lap and
won comfortably. The race was
run in heavy rain, which
accounted for the slow time of
3.47 j.
+ +'
And Sundry Sports
In the match Western
Province v. the Australians,
Australia won outright when
Benaud (32 not-out) and Mc-
Donald (23 not-out) hit up the
required 55 runs in only 18min.
In trying to stop a hot Benaud
drive in the closing minutes,
South African skipper Van
Ryneveld split a finger, and had
to withdraw from the first Test.
On the first day of the fourth
Test, last-Friday, Van Ryneveld
had the same finger reopened,
and it was again Benaud, with
another very hot drive during
his hard-hitting century, who
did it. When Benaud (and the
same goes for Alan Davidson,
too, for that matter; he made
a punishing 62 in the Test) hits
the ball, he really hits it.
With his 113 against Orange
Free State recently, Neil
Harvey reached his 50th
hundred in first-class cricket,
only the fourth Australian to
do so. The other three are
Bradman (117 centuries),
Hassett (59) and Bardsley (53).
Harvey has been Australia’s
greatest batsman since Brad-
man, yet somehow he has
usually not lived up to expecta-
tions in Test-series, particularly
against England. In fact, the late
Bill Ferguson, the famous
scorer, wrote in his Mr. Cricket
that, though Harvey has
“seemed to possess the stamp
of greatness,” he may
have been “flattering only
to deceive.” “I feel Aus-
tralia would be guilty of self,
deception if she relies on the
left-hander to do a better job of
work [in England] in l%i
[than he did in 1956].” Harvey’s
two best Test-series have both
been against South Africa
(1949-50 and 1952-53). But,
whatever be said against him’
Harvey always plays sparkling
cricket, and no batsman is
Sore worth watching when at
s top.
Nprm O’Neill, after all, is to
stay in Sydney, and will not
go to Adelaide. N.S.W., which
has won the Sheffield Shield for
1957-58, will have a mighty
powerful batting line-up next
season, with Craig and co.
back from South Africa and
O’Neill remaining. It could well
be that this season’s skipper, Sid
Carroll (one of the chief
architects of N.S.W.’s Shield
win, and very successful him-
self with the bat), could be
battling to hold a permanent
place in the side. Of course,
with a Test-series against
England making demands on
State sides in 1958-59, oppor-
tunities will be given, as was
also the case this season, to
players on the fringe of State
selection.
“Slip”: In a recent Perth
pennant-match between mid-
land-Guildford and Bassendean,
M.-G., the home side, didn’t
have regulation stumps avail-
able on the second day. O’Neil,
Bassendean skipper, waited the
required 15min. under the rules,
then claimed the game;
Bassendean was credited with
13 points, four more than the
number allotted for the first-
innings decision which, with
Bassendean 200 and M.-G.
4/51, seemed the likely result.
There’s many who said O’Neil’s
action wasn’t cricket.
“C.A.A.”: Palm for the
youngest Test-cricketer con-
tinues to be held by Pakistan.
Nasimul Ghani was 16 years
and 248 days old when he
appeared for Pakistan in a Test
against the West Indies the
other day. Previously, Pakistan
opening - batsman Khalid
Hassan had held the honor,
being 16 years and 352 days
old when he played against
England in 1954.
“Kabara”: One of the most
daring closures ever made
came off in a Melbourne
pennant-match recently. At the
end of the first day’s play
Collingwood had made 196, and
Carlton was 0-6. On the
second day, on a rain-affected
pitch, the Blues were dismissed


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANK NEILL late of Brisbane in
the State of Queensland. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARGHERITA NEILL has
filed a Petition- for Divorce No. 1074
of 1957 on the grounds of adultery If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 14th day of April 1958 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. K. BRUDENELL-
WOODS & CO., Solicitors, of 6A Penfold
Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
for 111. Collingwood batted
again, but skipper and former
Shield all - rounder Harry
Lambert declared after only
four balls had been bowled, at
1-0. This left Carlton 86 to
get for an outright win in 87
min., but, largely per young
pace-bowler Noel Shaw, who
took 9-25, it was bundled out
for 57, and ’Wood got its out-
right win with 2min. to spare.
“Atala”: West Perth first-
wicket-down batsman Peter
Medhurst, in two successive
games recently, had two long
waits padded-up. In a second
innings he sat waiting for 2hrs.'
“He hit me when I Was looking."
17min. while Keith Gillam
(who made 223) and Derek
Woodhead put on 280—Gillam
was dismissed in the last over
of the game, and Medhurst did
not bat. In the next game Med-
hurst had to wait with his pads
on for 2hrs. 57min. while
Woodhead and Ken Ferries
made a slow 145 partnership.
At last he got to the crease—
. «• _ i
and was out for a duck .
. . , .
“Sam” : With reference to
that “farcical closure” (B
mat iarcicai Closure {&.
29/1/’5B), it is hard to see why
a fuss should have been made
. a- . rr .
over the affair. To get 24 runs
in only 9min. is not easily
achievable. The young skipper
c . „ , p
showed himself very sporting
by giving his opponents a
fighting chance to get the runs,
instead of letting his batsmen
play-out time. No doubt it was
unfortunate for the Manly
team, but that’s all in the game
of cricket.
* * *
In their two games following
their defeat by England in the
international at Twickenham,
the Wallabies beat North-
eastern Counties 10-0 at New-
castle-on-Tyne (Lenehan 'con-
verting tries by Saxon White
and himself), and lost to North-
western Counties 6-3 at Liver-
pool, Lenehan scoring the only
try of the game. The second
game was played on a frozen,
muddy ground. Yesterday
(Feb. 11) the Wallabies met
North of Scotland, and on
Saturday play Scotland at
Murray Field,
“Nauticus” on a sportsman,
gentleman, Christian minister
and'soldier:
Some months ago reference was
made in The Bulletin to an English
Rugby Union team which toured
Australia and N.Z. in 1905 (I think)
and was captained by the Rev.
Mullineux.
In 1916 and early 1917 I was
Purser of the R.M.S. Moana in the
Wellington to San Francisco service,
and while so employed Mullineux
embarked as a passage-worker (at
Is. a month) for the south-bound
trip. We often had a yam in my
cabin — incidentally, he was a tip-
*°P worker. I believe he had been
a Naval chaplain and had tried to
j 0 f n _ u p again during the war, but
the authorities considered he was
better employed at the British
Mission to Sailors in San Francisco.
Flowever, he had eventually
prevailed and was expecting to be
appointed as a chaplain to the Ist
N.Z.E.F.
After signing-off the Moana I did
not see him again until about March,
1918, when I was a Digger attached
to a battalion of details in the
Poperinghe area. Mullineux was
our chaplain, and did a good job of
work at the time our medical-officer
(Capt. Venables) and staff were
killed during a heavy bombardment
when the battalion was away from
division and supporting the French
while Jerry was attempting to break-
through in the Yprfcs area. For this
he received the M.C., and a most
popular award it was.
I- was wounded shortly after and
was returned to N.Z. in Dec., 1918,
and resumed as purser in the San
Francisco service in Feb., 1919, in
a much smaller ship, the Paloona,
formerly one of the T.S.N. Co.’s
vessels. In San Francisco, about
March or May, I caught sight of
Mullineux in his N.Z. chaplain’s uni-
form, but couldn’t get in touch with
him, as it was sailing-day—a very
busy day for me. Unfortunately i
never saw him again.
Everyone I knew who knew him
had a very high regard for him; my
own opinion was heightened by my
knowledge of his work in France.
I’d like to know what eventually
happened to him.
* * *
“C.H.R.”: Port Melbourne’s
one win in eight successive
grand-finals (noted here a while
back) wasn’t a record. After
World War I Newtown (Syd-
ney) Aussie Rules team was
10 times in succession runner-
up. Like Robert the Bruce, it
tried once again—and won the
the title, in its 11th successive
“grand.”
* * *
Possibly the worst accident
in sporting history was the
crash last week, near Munich
(Germany), of the BE. A. Eliza-
bethan airliner which resulted
in the death of several of Eng-
land’s leading Soccer-players,
members of Manchester United,
and of some officials and
sporting-journalists, two _or
three of whom were former
Soccer internationals. Man-
chester United, one of Eng-
land’s greatest post-war sides,
was returning after tying 3-all
with the Yugoslav Red Star
team in a match for the Euro-
pean Cup, in which it has
reached the semi-finals in the
last two years. Since War 11,
Manchester United has been
League first-division cham-
pions in 1952, ’56 and ’57, and
won the Association Cup-final
from Blackpool 4-2 in 1948.
It lost the last Cup-final 2-1 to
Aston Villa.
* * *
The professional tennis-
players have now come and
gone. Hoad won the Melbourne
round-robin, and (somewhat
surprisingly, though he’s still a
good player) Sedgman took-out
first-prize in the Sydney
(Ampol) tournament. After the
Australasian part of their “100-
games” contest Hoad led
Gonzales 8-5. Somehow,
though, it’s still Wimbledon,
the U.S., French and Australian
championships, and the Davis
Cup, which hold the greatest
tennis interest.
* * *
“Keima”; Boxing in
Brisbane for the most part this
year will be held on stage at the
Rialto theatre. This is because
Brisbane stadium is being reno-
vated, and will not be in use
again till near the end of the
year. Friday night has always
been boxing-night in Brisbane,
but, as that night does not suit
the theatre-management, the
fights will be on, as in Sydney,
on Mondays till the stadium
reopens.


HOLIDAY RESORTS
Torquay , Victoria ,
Offers holiday bookings from
2nd February onwards.
g. r. McCartney,
Victorian Estate Agent.
Phone 366.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
WanU
Words of verse containing the
lines:
And then the babe.
A tiny, perfect seashell on the shore.
—6669.
To buy Granville Banker on
“Hamlet.” —6670.
Information Sought
Is there a plastic substance which
can be used for moulds for making
ornaments, etc., and which can be
melted and re-used ?
Have no details of such a sub-
stance, but very good mould-
material can be formed from white
paraffin - wax, available from
most grocers, hardware-stores, etc.
It is softened by warmth (direct
heat or .immersion in warm water),
but will not, of course, take hot
materials for the models. Builders’
perspex in half-inch size might also
be tried; it is placed in a warm
oven to soften, and can be pulled or
formed by pressure of models into
required shapes, preferably small
things. Try for further details from
handcraft tutors at your nearest
technical college.
* • * •
Was Christ born in the year 0, or,
as I’ve been told, in 4 b.c. ?
The following information is based
or. the account of the matter given
in Werner Keller’s recently pub-
lished The Bible as History.
Astronomers and historians, both
secular and ecclesiastical, he says,
are unanimous that December 25 of
the year 0 was not the correct date
of Christ's birth, neither as regards
the year nor the day. The reason
for the previous acceptance of that
date “lies at the door of the
Scythian monk Dionysius Exiguus,
who made several mistakes and mis-
calculations.” In 533 Dionysius was
given the task of fixing the beginning
ol the Christian era by working
backwards. “But he forgot the year
0, which should have been inserted
between 1 b.c. and a.d. 1, and also
overlooked the four years [3l-27
b.c.] when the Roman Emperor
Augustus had reigned, under his own
name Octavian.” In further proof,
Matthew ii: 1 says “Now when
Jesus was born in Bethlehem of
Judaea, in the days of Herod the
king....” Herod was designated
King of Judaea by the Romans in 40
b.c. and died in 4 b.c. Christ there-
fore must have been born either in
oi before 4 b.c., with that year tne
one that is generally accepted.
* * * *
(1) Brief particulars of French
writer Simone de Beauvoir and her
work? (2) What is her address?
(1) Born in Paris on Jan. 9, 1908,
and educated at Paris University, she
taught in various lycees from 1931
to 1943. Geoffrey Brereton’s A
Short History of French Literature
(1954) says of her writings: “Simone
de Beauvoir is known as
Sartre’s principal disciple, but in
spite of a common philosophical
outlook her work is very different.
In her novels ( L’lnvitee, 1943 ; Le
Sang des Autres, 1945; Tons les
Hommes Sont Mortels, 1946) and
her play ‘Les Bouches Inutiles’
(1945) her handling of psychology is
lighter and subtler. By tempera-
ment she seems an analytical writer
in the classic, not the naturalistic,
tradition. She is at her best in the
closely-reasoned analytical essay, as
Four une Morale de I’Ambiguite
(1947), Faut-il Bruler de Sade ?
(1952) and her major study on the
standing of women, Le deuxieme
sexe (1949).” Her last work to be
translated into English, The
Mandarins, which won her the Prix
Goncourt in 1954, was described by
The Bulletin (B. 29/5/’57) as
“brilliantly written a significant
novel about French Left-wing
intellectuals.” She is married to
Jean-Paul Sartre. (2) Her address,
as given in the 1956 International
Who’s Who, is C/o Librairie
Gallimard, 5 Rue S6bastien-Bottin,
Paris 7e, France.
* * * *
What exactly is the university
“Faculty of Arts” ?
In a speech delivered at the
inauguration ceremony of the Uni-
versity of Sydney in 1852 Dr.
Woolley, the first Principal, pointed
out that the idea of a university was
twofold —first, a school of liberal
and general knowledge; secondly, a
collection of special schools, devoted
to the learned profession. Of these
two the former was the university,
properly so called.
The Faculty of Arts assumes the
province of general education, and
may be regarded as the heart of the
university. It is not designed to pre-
pare students for particular occupa-
tions, though its graduates may pass
on to professional careers in teach-
ing, law, journalism, library work,
politics or administration. The main
function of the faculty is to preserve
the traditions of liberal education
and culture, and to foster a way
of living marked by breadth of out-
look and understanding. Courses
are designed to promote impartial
inquiry, critical appreciation, and
disinterested research.
The subjects studied include
language, the instrument of think-
ing; the arts, particularly but not
exclusively literature; history, clari-
fying and accounting for the record
of the human past; anthropology,
which deals with man in a wide
variety of cultural settings; legal
subjects and education, instances of
contemporary social movements; the
sciences—mathematical, physical,
psychological and social —which
attempt to grapple with the ways of
reality; and finally philosophy,
which seeks to examine by way of
criticism the assumptions on which
other studies are based, taking up
fundamental problems of the nature
of reality.
* * * *
What was the real name of
Captain Starlight, the bushranger in
“Robbery Under Arms’"' ? Also,
what was his ultimate fate ?
There is no actual “Captain Star-
light” in Australian bushranging
annals. G. F. Maine, in his intro-
duction to the 1954 edition of
Robbery Under Arms, says Starlight
was “none other than the well-born
desperado Captain Moonlite, who
terrorised the Monaro and Riverina
districts of N.S.W. in the 1860’s.
His two accomplices Dick and Jim
Marston are scarcely less veiled.
Almost certainly they are composites
of Frank Gardiner, self-styled ‘King
of the Road,’ and Fred Ward, whose
nickname was Thunderbolt.” Cap-
tain Moonlight (or Captain Moon-
lite, as he himself spelt it) was
Andrew George Scott, born of a cul-
tured family in North Ireland in
1842. He had a colorful career (a
more complete account of it was
given on the Service page, B.
19/10/’55), which ended after he
and some accomplices had held-up
Wantabadgery station, near
Gundagai (N.S.W.), on Nov. 15,
1879. With one of his accomplices,
Rogan, he was hanged at Darling-
hurst jail on Jan. 20, 1880.
* * * *
Some information on the begin-
nings, and subsequent development,
o) oe food-canning industry?
From “Facts and Fantasy on
Food-production,” compiled by
Gordon Edgell and Sons: In the
year 1795, when Napoleon’s armies
were literally dying of starvation,
Nicholas Appert began experiment-
ing with the preservation of food.
He thought that if raw food were
put into a container, hermetically
sealed, and the contents heated, it
would keep fresh for long periods;
during the next 14 years he experi-
mented along this line until, in 1809,
his work was recognised by
Napoleon.
At that time it tvas a big job feed-
ing armies throughout Europe, and
the adoption of Appert’s principle
meant improved health, not only of
the Army and Navy but of civilians
as well.
This small beginning has had so
profound an effect on the world that
the Encyclopcedia Britannica states
that “the method of preserving food
in cans may be described as the
greatest of all inventions in historic
times. Its effect has been to relieve
mankind throughout the world of
dependence upon the annual harvest,
since, food can now be carried over
from year to year.”
Brief Answers
M.H.C.: Lionel Monckton, born
London December 18, 1861, died
there February, 1924. Educated at
Charterhouse School and Oxford, he
"We can hardly accept 'Don't shoot' as a final request."


kuv mom safe!
SANDERS#
<^;«FiLES,
Correspondence, invoices,
.Statements, etc., filed in the
"Sanders” can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month— Of
Ony other period.
y.-^A
Prtco* and fur*
ther Information
upas application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
BUsribiUtng Age*lt~~
MELBOURNE . . Norman Bros. B\J. Ltd.
ADELAIDE . Vardan Prlco Ltd.
FEBXU t Dookol Book Co. (Au*C>
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributioni voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor .
thinks necessary.
M.L.M.: There are touches of
true description in “Theatre Life,”
but you need more than Jhat....
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
began his musical career by writing
some numbers tor musical-comedies
produced by George Edwardes. Some
cl his best-known musical-comedies
are “The Quaker Girl,” “The Danc-
ing Mistress,” “The Cingalee” and
“The Country Girl” J.H.F.:
Thanks for words of verse
T.H.P.: For information on bull-
ants, write N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture, Division of Plant-
industry, Box 36, G.P.0., Sydney.
M.S.C.: (1) Unable to trace a
firm dealing in French crystal
ornaments; suggest you contact
Prouds Pty., Ltd., Pitt and King
Streets, Sydney. (2) Write Angus
and Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castie-
reagh Street, Sydney H.L.: You
can get l'ranking-machine ink from
Chartres, Ltd., 169 Liverpool Street,
Sydney... .R.8.R.: Unable to give
exact figures; the query is highly
technical. Consult the librarians at
your city library J.N.: H.M.A.S.
Voyager, first of a flotilla of three
Daring-class light-cruisers, was
launched in March, 1952, and com-
pleted in February, 1957. She was
built at Cockatoo Island dockyard,
Sydney... .A.K.: The name of
Commonwealth Oil Refineries, Ltd.,
was changed last October to BP
Australia, Ltd. The change was in
line with the policy of British
Petroleum Co., Ltd., the parent
company, to identify all subsidiary
and associate companies throughout
the world with thq BP group
W. 8.: Sputnik I, now disintegrated,
weighed 1841 b., had a 22\ in.
diameter, a maximum altitude of
560 miles, a speed of 18,000 m.p.h.
and an orbit-time of approx,
Sputnik II weighs 11201 b., has a
maximum altitude of 1056 miles,
speed 17,840 m.p.h. and an orbit-
time of approx. 103 min. Its
diameter is unknown. 1958 Alpha
weighs 30.81 b., is 6in. diameter, with
maximum altitude 1828 miles, speed
19,400 m.p.h., and orbit-time
approx. 115 min N.C.: Two
books have been published on the
voyage of Mayflower II (April 19 to
June 13 last year). They are The
Western Ocean, by Alan VilliOTs,
v/ho captained Mayflower 11, and
The Voyage of Mayflower 11, by
Warwick Charlton, the man who
conceived the idea of re-enacting the
historic voyage of 1620. . ..J.McE.:
See Australian Bush Ballads, edited
by Douglas Stewart and Nancy
Keesing (price 305.). .. .E.S.: King
Farouk of Egypt abdicated in favor
of his infant son following an Army
revolt in July, 1952, led by General
Neguib. Shortly afterwards the
monarchy was declared abolished,
and Neguib, who had become Prime
Minister, was appointed President of
the new republic. In March, 1954,
Neguib was forced to surrender all
his powers and titles to Colonel
Abd-el-Nasser, the leader of the
group of younger officers who had
actually planned the 1952 revolu-
tion H.F.M.: Space dqesn’t per-
mit a description of the methods
used in working copper and its
“Man, this is no ordinary jukebox. You put your money
in and it STOPS playing!”
alloy, brass. However, you’ll find
ample information in the
Encyclopaedia Britannica, under the
headings “Copper” and “Anneal-
ing”... .D.0’8.: Still waiting on
further information... .J.W.: Alfred
Sisley (1839-99) was one of the
French Impressionist painters.
“Together with Monet, Sisley repre-
sents Impressionism in its purest
form,” says Lake and Maillard’s
A Diciionary of Modem Painting
(1956); “he confined himself almost
exclusively to landscape, and his
work did not undergo any pro-
found change during the course of
his life.” Little has been written
about him —“not because he lacked
talent, but rather because his life
was neither adventurous nor
picturesque, and because his art was
entirely ruled by sensibility” {ibid.).
. ...R.T.: No athlete has yet run
the mile in exactly 4min. Before
Roger Bannister’s 3.59.4 on May 6,:
1954 (the first under-4min. time), the
world-record for the mile was the
Swede Gundar Haegg’s 4jnin.
I.4sec., made in 1945. Since
Bannister’s run all the so-called
“tour-minute” miles have been less
than 4min. Australian Herb
Elliott’s time on Jan. 25 this year
was 3.59.9, only one-tenth of a
second under the exact 4min.
W.R.: Your poem on dustbins
ended-up in one C.L.: Lacks
even a smattering of development.
. ...Y.K.: On the right track; see
if you can expand your characters.
H.H.L.: An indigestible trifle.
. ...S.R.: “Oh bloated herring,
swimming in a sea of sauce” is a
bit-well, a bit bloated T.T.W.:
Hemingway was miles before you.
... .A.J.0.: It’s not bad; not good,
either D.D.: A little rough,
particularly in the last stanza
Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims which state the
section in which paragraphs
appear and the date of
appearance will be paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
E.R.R.: Not interested in odes to
gumtrees out past Boggabri
U.V.: It doesn’t show “careful
study of English idiom,” or even
Australian..,.K.H.G.: Is it
necessary to rhyme “theatre” with
“Peter”? P.L.: Well, there’s a
wealth of local information —what
about the new shopping-centre? Or
those strange people two doors up?
S.C.N.: That cricketing story
seems to have you stumped....
Q.F.: “In Praise of Gray” reads like
an obituary-notice W.G.: If you
could round-up your ramblings and
shorten the sentences you’d have
something... .1.A.A.: Not enough
true-to-life detail... .P.8.E.: Light
and slight N.McG.: “Have you
space for a poem on my canary
Chirpy?” Frankly, the cat got
him C.C.: You take too long to
get to the point... .K.R.: There
are several good bits, but they
don’t outweigh the bad ones....
A.W.: What 'do you mean by
“brickbats of burly swirling
sound”?... .C.R.: Take “Gilbert,
My Cat” to a vet. There’s nothing
we can do for him... .J.L.: Stick to
beer... .K. 0.8.: No doubt you’ve
solved the riddle of the universe,
but we can’t read your handwriting,
so no one will ever know the
answer... .Y.T.: You’re young yet,
if that’s any excuse... .P.O& There
was a nice comma at the end of
the 17th stanza, otherwise it wasn’t
as good as you thought....
W.H.N.: Very well, then, we’ll
dump it Patrick : Patrick!
H.G.S.: Free verse, like free love,
shouldn’t be mentioned in polite
society G.D.: “The Ghost”
walked... .R.0.P.: “Boots” do not
rhyme with “soup” V.V.: Boil it
down to the irreducible minimum
and let’s have what’s left, if any-
thing Sam: Scram T.F.:
Sorry about Maisie Q.W.E.:
“If you can spare the time to cast
a glance over this effusion. . The
best thing to cast on that would
be a bucket of soot D.D.: Fair.
Read some of this century’s poetry.
... .S.A.: Brennan and water....
G.8.C.: “And dost I dare to cast
my eyne upon thy raiment fair?”
It appears thou dost and we can
only hope she was properly dressed.
....JJ.: The sonnet is a very
difficult form, for you must make
it at once modern and traditional.
Yours are merely hackneyed.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
TRADE-UNIONISM
npRADE - UNIONS are as
subject as any other institu-
tion to the political evolution
—or, perhaps, stagnation —by
which the radicals of yesterday
become the conservatives of
tomorrow. The process would
seem to be well under way in
Britain, where, writes Charles
Curran in a thoughtful survey
yn London “Spectator,” the
trade-unions “look remarkably
like the monasteries on the eve
of the Reformation”:
“They are rich, powerful,
dominating; they enjoy a
privileged status that exempts
them from legal obligations
imposed on all other groups of
citizens ; they administer their
own disciplinary codes through
their own tribunals, using
expulsion and excommunication
as their supreme sanctions;
they strive to extend their
authority into every department
of our national life ; and their
leaders deny, as vigorously as
medieval ecclesiastics, that the
layman has any right to
criticise them or meddle with
them. But the beliefs on which
all this is based are crumbling.
For the trade-unions have out-
lived their age of faith.
“Like the monasteries, they
began as groups of poor men.
In the freezing climate of 19th-
century industrialism, they
fought for survival. They were
part of that great surge of
working-class enthusiasm for
social change by means of
collective self-help—which also
produced the friendly societies,
the consumers’ co-operative
movement, bodies such as the
Workers’ Educational Associ-
ation, and 70 years of constant
electoral pressure for remedial
legislation. Now the surge has
ended. In our full-employment
Welfare State, the enthusiasm
has turned into boredom. The
unions have become, function-
less mammoths.”
Elaborating on this theme,
Curran points out the fiction
of tlie idea that unions are
democratic bodies controlled
by their members “trade-
unions, like companies, have
fallen into the hands of the
managers” and goes on to
comment that “today, the trade-
union movement has stopped
moving”:
“With full employment and
universal State social services,
it is like the Anti-Corn-Law
League on the morning after
the Corn Laws were repealed.
Its traditional objectives have
been reached. Where does it go
from here?”
This “perplexity,” Curran
adds, is reflected in the trade-
union press, which reveals that
“the intellectual level of the
movement is extremely low” .*
“A generation ago, the kind
of man who went into union
politics did so partly because
he had a sense of mission, partly
because it was almost the only
London “Time and Tide”
ONCE MORE TO THE SUMMIT?
career open to his talents. Both
these reasons have vanished.
Today, this kind of man is
creamed - off into grammar-
schools and universities, to pass
into the new class of techni-
cians, administrators and
executives. The unions refuse
to recognise that, if they are
to get talent now, they must
pay for it at competitive rates ;
and, consequently, they are
becoming, more and more, a
depository for people who
cannot pass the eleven -plus
examination.
“This trend will continue. A
socially mobile society, with
careers open to talent, will
presently produce in this
country a rough correlation
between intelligence, income
and status. The unskilled
worker at the bottom will
become, in fact, what the Vic-
torian bourgeoisie imagined
him to be: someone who is
where he is because he is not
fitted for anything better. The
implications of this for trade-
unionism are revolutionary.
“Some of them are already
visible such as the dis-
appearance from our politics of
gifted, embittered men with no
outlet for their powers except
agitation. By comparison with
1938, or even with 1946, the
rising men are dull, torpid,
second-rate. They are not im-
proved by the fact that, since
they have no new ideas, they
are driven to repeat slogans
that they know to be out of
date. (The habitual profession
of beliefs that you do not in
fact accept is as destructive to
union leaders as it is.to clergy-
men.)”
After discussing the oppor-
tunities the unions have missed
and their present apparent
futility in face of automation
—“the union managers see
themselves only a veto-group;
they are diehards with a vested
interest in keeping things as
they are” —Curran sums-up the
unions’ dilemma since 1945:
“They have been straddling
the dilemma presented to them
by the clash between their
slogans and the world around
them. They call for a planned
economy while they realise
uneasily that the words mean
the supersession of collective
bargaining by the State. They
demand simultaneously frozen
full employment, no inflation,
no national wages-policy and
the right to bid-up wages with-
out limit. But they will not be
able to straddle the dilemma
much longer. For they are a
barrier across the path that
leads to the industrial revolu-
tion.
“When the Webbs published
their History of Trade
Unionism in 1894, it was trans-
lated into German. The trans-
lator, Eduard Bernstein, was
thereupon censured by his
German Socialist Party col-
leagues for wasting his time—
since trade-unionism, they told
him, would have no place in the
Socialist State, and it was
therefore unnecessary to trouble
about it. Mr. Webb related this
in 1920 as a jest. But, as Shaw
said, every jest is an earnest
in the womb of time. As it is
led at present, there will be
no place for trade-unionism in
the atomic-energy State—except
in museums.”
Policing Space
New York “Herald Tribune”
on the “acute importance of
the time-element” in reaching
an international agreement on
the control of outer space:
“Man’s ability to master his
environment (which does not
include, unfortunately,' his
ability to master himself) is
moving at a prodigious and
accelerating rate. Consider a
few dates:
“1783: The Montgolfier
brothers sent up the first
balloon.
“1903: The Wright brothers
sent up the first powered air-
plane.
“1944: The Germans
bombarded London with long-
range missiles.
“1957: Sputnik I orbited
around the earth.
“There were 120 years
between the brothers Mont-
golfier and the brothers
Wright; only 33 years between
that first flight at Kitty Hawk
and the robot blitz ; only 13
years between the buzz-bombs
and the elevation of the late
Laika into outer space.
“Certainly there is every
reason to believe that the pro-
gressive invasion of space will
proceed, within a decade, to
a point which, if not regulated
in advance by genuine, enforce-
able international law, will
threaten the globe with destruc-
tion and its atmosphere with,
to say the least, absolute chaos.
“The task of introducing
order into the nationalist con-
fusion of space-flights will not
be easy. After centuries of
the painful development of
maritime law there is still
acrimonious debate over such
elementals as the extent of
national jurisdiction over the
sea—three miles, or 12?
“Air-travel is bedevilled by
problems of national ‘air-
space.’ One question which


Faith in the
Future
mm
fm
In Australia this year more than 200,000
children will be born. Natural increase is still the
major source of our numerical growth, although
migration also has added strongly to our population.
Within the next ten years it is expected we
will have reached the. twelve-million mark.
In terms of relative increase, those figures are
good; but I think that while regarding them we
should be thinking seriously about the problem of
overconcentration in the cities.
More than half the population of Australia
now live in the State capitals. Close to one-quarter
of the total population are in Sydney.
Give whatever reasons we may for this growth-
upon-growth in the larger centres—and there are
probably the best personal and economic reasons
why people stay there or go there to live —the fact
is that Australia is almost entirely dependent on
rural earnings, and to neglect a due dispersal of our
living strength through the productive countryside
can only be described as national folly.
The present bias in distribution could be
corrected in part, at any rate, by a deliberate
national effort. As a country we are under-
capitalised, finance is limited and the very pressures
of population largely influence the apportionment
of available funds.
So firstly, I think we should get our sights clear
on what constitutes real and balanced development.
Then, as a further measure of correction, the
States could give local authorities, or groups of
local authorities, the widest possible powers to
initiate and finance development within their areas.
I believe that more people would be induced
to make their careers and help build Australia
outside the crowding cities if they were encouraged
to work out a more vigorous and progressive life
for themselves in their own communities.
This does not pretend to be the complete
answer to a complex problem, nor does it seek to
add more than a few thoughts on a well-known
national trend.
But however we tackle it, a better balance in
population is a “practical” must for Australia’s
future.
would surely arise, in creating
an international space-agency,
is where does ‘air-space’ end
and outer space begin? Will
man be any more successful
in policing the stratosphere
than in preventing wars and
crimes upon the earth?
“Yet the very fact that outer
space offers a clean slate for
the creation of new inter-
national institutions is in
favor of the attempt.”
Shipbuilding
The air of confidence
which hung over British
shipyards not so long ago—
despite rising costs and the up-
surge of German and Japanese
shipbuilding—has been rather
quickly dispersed by the drastic
reductions in orders for new
ships.
In all shipbuilding countries,
including the U.K., “fresh
orders have dropped to a
trickle in a matter of months,”
comments London “Financial
Times,” while “some leading
yards have not booked a new
order for six months.”
With the steady fall in freight-
rates since early 1957, “ship-
values have plunged and
owners must now allow higher
depreciation allowances for
their modern tonnage in addi-
tion to the high initial costs and
interest on capital charges
involved.
“The position is quickly
being reached when it is doubt-
ful if new ships, economical
in normal times, will be able to
earn profits sufficient to cover
all this, even if full cargoes
are available. Faced with these
imponderables, it is understand-
able that owners —particularly
the small companies and specu-
lative operators —are backing
out of new tonnage commit-
ments, or shelving immediate
plans.”
Britain’s shipbuilding order-
book is sound insofar as it pro-
vides work for four years and
“covers practically every type of
seagoing vessel and craft,” but
more than half of this work
is for. tankers, and “world
tankers laid-up total over two-
million tons.” The “immediate
threat,” then, is in any cut in
the “bread-and-butter” work of
tanker-building.
The long-term threat, on the
other hand, is in foreign com-
petition, particularly from
Japan, which, having also felt
the sting of reduced orders,
is chasing fresh markets more
keenly than ever, especially in
the Near and Far East, South
America and the Soviet.
As well, the “Financial
Times” adds, “the Japanese are
again offering attractive terms
and delivery-dates. In the last
six months, for example, the
price of a 46,000-ton turbine
tanker has dropped from £3.8
million to £3.2 million with
delivery within two years. This
is roughly the same price -as
could be obtained in Britain
at present; but—and this is
important—the British price is
a basic one. It will be subject,
almost without exception, to a
materials and labor escalator-
clause.
“Basic U.K. prices are still
rising, at an annual rate
reckoned to be about 8 per
cent. The wages award lasi
year, together with an average
increase of 8| per cent, in ship-
steel prices (following an 11
per cent, increase six months
earlier), have pushed up the
finished-ship price still further ;
but there has been no compen-
sating increase in productivity.
“As an example of the way
prices spiral, London and Over-
seas Freighters took delivery
from a British yard last year of
a 24,800-ton d.w. tanker. Final
cost was £1,513,389, but she was
contracted for in October, 1951,
at an estimated £lm.
“Against this, Japanese yards
are prepared to quote fixed
prices.”
For the future, the “Financial
Times” concludes, “Britain
will almost certainly absorb the
lion's share of orders for the
more specialised types of
shipping,” but “prosperity
will depend upon output of th£
‘super’ tankers, bulk-carriers
and tramps. Here, competition
from the Japanese yards" will
clearly intensify. By investing
in improved welding and new
prefabrication methods, Japan
has placed greater importance
on speed than any other ship-
building nation.”
Nuclear Weapons
London “Daily Telegraph”
editorial comment on the
Soviet’s addition of Turkey and
the Middle East to the countries
which it (the Soviet) proposes
should be “de-nuclearised”:
“In other words, the Russians
are advocating a belt free of
nuclear weapons running from
the Arctic to the Suez Canal.
Judging by the warmth with
v/hich Western public opinion
receives each new extension of
the idea the Russians will very
likely propose next that France,
the Low Countries and Britain
should be added to the belt.
For if it is once accepted that
nuclear weapons constitute the
major threat to peace, and


Between
Ourselves
-—Have You Ever Tried
This? -
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
should, therefore, be restricted
to the maximum possible
extent, then in logic only the
Soviet Union and the United
States should possess them.
“But would this in fact serve
the cause of peace and
security? Those who argue
that it would seem to forget
that the reason why today the
Western Powers are consider-
ing stationing missile-bases
throughout the Nato area is not
out of some one-sided prefer-
ence for these ghastly weapons.
The decision was taken in
direct response to the Soviet
Union’s claim to have
developed its own intercon-
tinental ballistic-missile.
“In other words, the danger
which the Russians are now
attempting to guard against,
they themselves are responsible
for bringing about. A proposal
that would deny missile-bases
to the West, while doing noth-
ing to deny them to the Soviet
Union, would only, as M. Paul
Reynaud pointed out, ‘lead to
war under the flag of peace.’ ”
The Way to Security
Edward Teller, who was
lately in the news for his warn-
ings on the nuclear threat con-
fronting the Western world, is
Professor of Physics and
Associate Director of the
Radiation Laboratory at the
University of California and
has been closely concerned with
the development of atom- and
hydrogen-bombs since 1941.
In the following comments,
from a long article in the U.S.
quarterly “Foreign Affairs,” he
proposes “two principal ways
in which we may seek to
improve our chances of safety
in a world which appears to
become less safe with each
passing year”:
“One way seems the more
logical and more appealing at
first sight. It is to find peace
for the whole world through
disarmament. The thought of
war has never seemed more
dreadful than it is at present,
and the desire for peace has
never been more passionate and
universal. Disarmament has
become the hope and the sym-
bol for an ultimate peaceful
solution of all our problems.
“There is another way
toward greater safety but, by
comparison, it seems to be a
makeshift. It is to strengthen
further our ties with the other
nations of the free world, and
in co-operation with them to
develop a capacity to deal
with a variety of threats to our
security, including the capacity
to wage a limited war.”
After discussing various dis-
armament proposals, Teller con-
cludes that, although “a ban on
nuclear tests has been widely
advocated as a simple, practical
and beneficial first step toward
disarmament, in fact, such a
ban could not be enforced,
would make a future war more
brutal and would be beneficial
only to that party which could
and would violate the ban by
secret testing.
“4t is not possible to assert
that all attempts at disarma-
ment will fail. Each proposal
should be considered on its
merits. But the example of a
ban on nuclear tests illustrates
the difficulties we face when
trying to agree with a clever
and ruthless opponent on the
limitation of technical devices
which are changing their nature
from year to year as new inven-
tions are added to the old.”
Turning to co-operation
between the free world, Teller
considers that “by mutual help,
the free countries can greatly
increase their chances of
national survival and of
independence.
“They can do so, however,
only if they co-operate and
co-ordinate all their technical
means." The most modern
arms must be made a part of
the joint-planning. This raises
the question of secrecy, for
close co-operation cannot be
planned without sharing most
—maybe all —technical secrets.
Yet the more widely a secret
is shared the sooner it may
become known to the enemy.
We [the U.S.] must therefore
consider how much we are
likely to lose by sharing our
secrets.
“In 1945 we would have lost
very much indeed if all our
secrets had become known to
the Russians. At that time we
had a great technical advan-
tage ; in the field of atomic
Illingworth's comment, in London “Daily Mail,” on the failure
of Maltese hopes for integration with Britain.
weapons we enjoyed a
monopoly. Undoubtedly some
secret information was lost to
the spies who worked for the
Communists, but a whole com-
plex technology cannot be
given away by a few reports.
The reasons to guard our
information remained strong.
“At the present time we do
not seem to be ahead of the
Russians in military technology
or in science. Differences
remain which are to our
advantage in some fields and
are to the advantage of the
Russians in others. Science
and its military applications
have made giant strides behind
the Iron Curtain in the last
12 years. This fast develop-
ment shows that Russian edu-
cation must be excellent.
Soviet progress proves that our
competitors are moving ahead
with a most impressive momen-
turn. It is practically certain
that they will surpass us in the
next few years.
“Let us look into this situa-
tion more concretely. We have
plenty of evidence that Russian
children between the ages of
10 and 20 receive a better
technical education than do
our own youngsters. These
children will be the most active
scientists a decade hence. As
the lead-time in scientific edu-
cation is long, we probably
cannot prevent the loss of our
scientific leadership. The best
we can hope for is to recapture
later what we are losing now.
“If we are no longer fore-
most in science and in military
technology our secrets will
obviously be of less value.
Most of our secrets will be
known to the Russians from
their own work. It does not


Larges! Australian Coy
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
follow that we must abandon
all secrecy, but it is clear that
we can more easily afford to
share our secrets with our
allies. It would seem to me
that henceforth it is less
important to keep our secrets
and more important to produce
additional knowledge and addi-
tional technical tools. ' Our
security lies in speed; our
allies could be most helpful in
our efforts to attain it.
“American science has sur-
passed the European because
of our mass-education. W©
have sown our seed more
widely and more fruit was
borne. Soviet Russia is sur-
passing us now because to
mass-education she has added
the highest incentives for tech-
nical and scientific accomplish-
ments. This competition will
not be easy for us to win.
“To help our allies to edu-
cate more scientists and
engineers is one obvious move
in the battle for future leader-
ship. To integrate the efforts
of the free nations in military
technology is another. The
miracles of modern science are
not created by one brain and
one pair of hands. We need
broad financial support, team-
work and the spirit of friendly
competition. We need the
spirit of World War 11, which
merged into a common and
urgent enterprise the work
of American, British and
Canadian scientists. The
present emergency is even
greater. The response must be
greater if freedom is to survive.
“I would like to summarise
my ideas in a simple statement.
Let us start our planning with
the word ‘Do.’ It is a mistake
to begin with ‘Don’t.’ Pro-
hibition is futile. Action can
be fruitful. I do not believe
that disarmament will prevent
war. I do believe that active,
close and full co-operation
between free nations can lay
the foundations of a peaceful
future.”
Missiles
London “Economist” on
missiles v. bombers:
“One advantage of the
missile is that it is cheaper than
the bomber. The intermediate-
range missiles that will soon
operate from Europe are
believed to cost (once research
has been paid for) roughly
£200,000 apiece, compared with
£600,000 for the medium-range
British V - bombers; an
American 8.52 intercontinental
bomber comes much dearer
still.
“In theory, of course, aircraft
can be used more than once,
but a nuclear war might not
go on long enough for bombers
to come home for another load.
Again, launching-sites are less
liable to be put out of action
than airfields as Russian
methods of attack improve.
Their storage-buildings and
control-centres are scattered
over a wide area, but the
launching-platform itself is
small and less vulnerable than
a network of runways.
“However, the bombers’
chief weakness lies in the
Soviet Union’s improving
system of defensive missiles.
The Russians are thought to be
already better equipped with
these than the Americans ; and
if they are not yet good enough
to knock down so many
bombers that the deterrent
becomes ineffective, they may
soon be. Hence the necessity to
mix a certain proportion of
missiles into the deterrent
before Russia’s rapid advance
in missile technology makes its
main constituent obsolete.
“The need to bring [U.S.]
missiles to Europe springs less
from the loudly proclaimed
acquisition of the intercon-
tinental weapon by the
Russians than from their quiet
progress in defensive equip-
ment.”
"Empire Remnants"
Edinburgh “Scotsman” com-
ment on the suggestion that
Britain should concentrate
attention on the “remnants of
the Empire” rather than on
those larger territories which
are economically viable and
qualify for independence:
“Certainly the problem of
the territories which are too
small to survive on their own
requires serious thought, but
it is worth remarking in the
first place that the future of all
the other territories is by no
means settled. Independence
is the accepted goal, but there
is no rule of thumb about when
or how it should be attained.
“The white minority in the
Central African Federation
confidently expects Dominion
status —independence within
the next few years. The black
majority is against it for
obvious reasons. The Southern
Rhodesian Premier, Mr. Todd,
faces a revolt in his party
because he has pursued a policy
which might have made them
change their minds. Another
example is Kenya, where
Britain will retain responsibility
for many years to come.
“One solution to the problem
of the smaller territories is the
one which is being applied in
the West Indies —federation —
but in many cases, notably the
large number of British islands
and groups of islands in the
three great oceans, there is
practically nothing to federate.
“Apart from the unique case
of Malta, the only solution
seems to be internal self-
government with continued
reliance on Britain for defence
and external relations. Few of
the small islands are likely to
demand independence.
“The other cases differ
widely, and it is not so easy to
foresee the future for some of
them. Possibly Sierra Leone
and Gambia will find their
ultimate home in a West
African Federation, but the
High Commission Territories
of Bechuanaland, Basutoland
and Swaziland, which are
enclaves within the Union of
South Africa, present a more
difficult problem. They are
closely related economically to
the Union, but have, under-
standably, no desire to join it.
“These are far from being
the only territories whose
future cannot be mapped out
clearly yet.”
"Man Bites Dog"
Calling P.M.G. Davidson
with a note from “N. Y.
Times”:
“Each year dogs take about
6000 bites out of the [U.S.]
Post Office’s 120,000 mailmen.
Casualty figures show that 84
per cent, of these bites are
inflicted on the leg, 13 per cent,
on the hand or arm and 3 per
cent, ‘elsewhere.’
“The idea of odorising the
men with a dog-repellent has
been tried, but the dogs kept
on biting. Last week [U.S.]
Postmaster-General Arthur S.
Summerfield (who owns a
non-biting French poodle) bit
back. He said that dog-owners
whose pets bite the mailman
will have to come down to the
post-office to get their letters.”
Various Voices
President Eisenhower: “The
world cannot afford to stand
still on disarmament. Our
allies from time to time develop
differing ideas. We must con-
cert these convictions among
ourselves. Thereafter any
reasonable proposal must be
heard, discussed and, if
possible, negotiated. But a
disarmament proposal, to hold
real promise, must at the
minimum have one feature:
reliable means to ensure com-
pliance by all. It takes actions
and demonstrated integrity on
both sides to create and sustain
confidence.”
Viscount Alexander of Hills-
borough : “The situation today
is that, having become, on the
whole, very much stronger than
we were, say, in 1948-49, in
many respects, nevertheless,
Russia has grown stronger
still and has this great
advantage all the tim e—
that she can, by her totali-
tarian and cruel methods at
home, so raise up and down
the standard of life of her
people as to make sure that
whenever she wants to con-
centrate on technological and
scientific rearmament every-
thing else can go by the board
as long as that is achieved.”
Sir A. Harold Bibby : “New-
born nations are realising that
complete independence, which
has become almost a religious
faith, has disadvantages as well
as nationalistic blessings, and
are appreciating the advantages
and security of the Common-
wealth fold.”
Mr. Dulles: “A ‘summit’
conference which diverted the
free nations from doing what
is necessary for their security,
without any comparable
change in the Sino-Soviet bloc,
could be a great, indeed a fatal,
disaster. Equally, it could be
a disaster if the free-world
leaders at such a conference felt
that, to avoid the danger
inherent in a platitudinous
declaration of peace, they had
to go to the other extreme and
break off in an atmosphere of
hostility. That could intensify
the cold war and make it more
likely that it would turn into
a hot war.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Bread and Flour
What’s wrong with Aus-
tralian flour? For years I have
been hearing and reading state-
ments that something should
be done to improve its quality ;
that if we had good flour we
wouldn’t have such bad bread.
Eighteen months ago, when I
was in New Zealand, I was very
impressed with the quality of
the bread on sale there. I was
told that this was because it
was made with Australian flour.
Here in Samoa we have a
Chinese baker. His bread is
superb, and keeps extremely
well under highly humid con-
ditions. Where does he get his
flour? From Australia!
There seems to be nothing
wrong with Australian flour,
but a lot wrong with Australian
bakers. — loane (Samoa).
Guide-dogs
So the training-centre for
guide-dogs for the blind is to
be transferred from Perth to
Melbourne. This may mean
that more people in the eastern
States will have the privilege of
seeing these animals at work —
and a privilege it is, whether
you drool over dogs or can
take them or leave them. Bush-
men who have lived with sheep-
and cattle-dogs all their lives,
and who believe the dog that
doesn’t work isn’t worth
feeding, will almost take their
hats off when a guide-dog
passes.
Much has been written in
the U.S.A. about “seeing-eye”
dogs, often in so sentimental
a vein that it immediately
becomes suspect; but those
who know the animals agree
that the facts, in the main, are
as stated —including the bits
about dogs leading their
charges around head-high (to
the charges) projections and
through thick traffic.
Applicants for guide-dogs
usually hope that the indepen-
dence of movement a dog
confers will enable them to take
a job. This immediately brings
up the question of travelling
by public transport. There is
no difficulty in W.A., where
guide-dogs have been allowed
on public vehicles for years.
Victoria has followed suit and
recently revoked the order that
the dogs must be muzzled
while travelling.
The best the N.S.W.
authorities will offer, however,
is free dogboxes on trains.
What a meaningless conces-
sion! If a blind man is to be
deprived of his dog’s services
during a large part of his
travelling, and also has to get
her in and out of a dogbox,
he might as well leave her at
home.
I hope that closer acquain-
tance with the dogs, who are
their own best advocates, will
show N. S. Wales transport
authorities how needless is their
anxiety to protect the travelling
“If you ask me this excise is all my eye.”
public from such perfectly
mannered animals. —Margaret
Lorraine (N.S.W.).
The Young Idea
Although the poet Thomson
declared, with poetical exuber-
ance, that it was a “delightful
task, to rear the tender thought,
to teach the young idea how to
shoot,” many present-day
parents and teachers are find-
ing it a difficult job. So
difficult, in fact, that some
parents appear to give the game
away at an early stage. The
results can be seen in reports
on juvenile crime, delinquency,
and the like.
It’s interesting, therefore, to
hear the views of the Professor
of Education at the University
of Melbourne (Professor W. H.
Frederick) who, as a parent and
a former headmaster of one of
our great public schools, should
know something about teaching
the young idea. He told a con-
ference of Victorian State
schools committees that parents
and teachers should co-operate
in:
Training children in the use
of money;
Stimulating a cordial attitude
to knowledge ;
Developing in children the
faculty of critical thought;
Teaching children how to
spend their leisure-time.
While teachers have their
part to play, it’s obvious that
the main responsibility falls, as
it should, on the parents. And
the professor made the
important point that parental
example counts for much.
The wise use of money can
be taught, partly by setting an
example of thrift, and partly
by limiting pocket-money to a
reasonable figure and insisting
on the child paying his own
way as far as practicable. It’s
useless giving liberal handouts
whenever they’re asked for, or
spending a sizeable amount of
the family income on lottery-
tickets, racing, and luxuries,
and then expecting the child to
be a model of thrift and prud-
ence where money is concerned.
Stimulating interest in
knowledge, again, is largely a
matter of example. Parents
whose reading is confined to the
sporting- or fashion-pages of
the newspapers, and whose
private library consists of a
couple of dozen books that no
one even looks at, give little
encouragement or opportunity
for developing a child’s natural
thirst for information. And
what a thirst it is! The normal
intelligent parent, no matter
how well-read, can’t hope to
answer adequately a tenth of
the questions put by the
average youngster, but with a
few well - chosen reference-
books he can help him to find
out for himself.
In this age of mass-
propaganda, the habit of
critical thought—of a question-
ing appraisal of the statements
made in the press and on the
radio by various sectional
interests or their spokesmen—
is something that needs to be
fostered. Parents can do their
part by encouraging discussion,
even though it can mean hear-
ing their most cherished beliefs
and opinions queried and
derided. It’s not what the
adolescent thinks that matters,
so much as encouraging him to
form his own views—to refuse
to swallow piecemeal every
specious claim, and every
attractive doctrine or cure for
the world’s ills that is set
before him.
The lack of leisure-time occu-
pation seems to be the cause
of much adolescent ill-rest and
vandalism, to say nothing of
graver crimes. Much of this
can be traced to the breakdown
of family life in modern living
conditions, to the apathy of
parents towards their children's
activities, and to lack of
parental example. Here the
teacher can do something to
encourage interest in sport and
hobbies the parent can do far
more —with the added leisure
he himself enjoys through the
40-hour week.
In short, the parent has the
real responsibility. He can’t
shuffle it off on the school, nor
evade moral responsibility for
his children’s behavior. But if
he does his job, he enjoys the
satisfaction of seeing his
children grow into men and
women worthy to take their
place in the community.—
D. J. G. (Vic.).
Immigration
In all the emphasis on
increasing the number of
British migrants to Australia,
one feature appears to be over-
looked. That is the avenues of
our economic life to which
these people will direct their
energies.
In many instances the
Southern European who comes
here immediately turns his
attention to the land. They
are often assisted by their
families and by their fellow-
countrymen already here. The
sugarcane areas, fruitgrowing
districts and market-gardening
localities all bear strong evi-
dence of these people’s useful-
ness in this direction. They
are assisting to expand the
exportable wealth of this


CHATEAU TANUNDA
Stories of the Coastal Lights No. 14
l
Nobby’s Light
Nobby’s lighthouse at Newcastle is the second oldest light-
house on the N.S.W. coast. It was built in 1858, forty-
two years after Macquarie Lighthouse was established on
Sydney’s South Head.
Nobby’s was the “small rock or island” seen by Captain
Cook when he sailed past the future site of Newcastle in
1770. When Lieut. John Shortland discovered the Hunter
River in 1797 and found deposits of coal in the area, this
“rock” was named Coal Island.
Early records say that it then reached a height of more
than 200 ft. above sea level (this was later reduced con-
siderably) with a perpendicular cliff on the southern side and
a steep slope on the north. In favourable weather, small
ships could sail between it and the mainland. As a guide
to these and other ships, an open coal fire was kept burning
on an exposed position near the entrance to the Hunter River.
In August, 1818, Governor Macquarie laid the foundation
stone of "a strong causeway” to join the mainland and the
island. The intended length of the breakwater was 930
yards, and 625 yards had been built when Governor Brisbane
halted the work in 1822. It was not completed until 1846.
As part of an improvement scheme for Newcastle har-
bour, plans were made to blow up Nobby's in 1854. Miners
were tunnelling under its base when public protests forced
cessation of the work of destruction.
In 1858, the present lighthouse was built —a 22 ft.
circular stone tower—after 40 ft. of the uneven top of the
island had been removed. The original light was of 20,000
candle power and was attended by three keepers. It was
converted to automatic in 1916 and has been strengthened
to 580,000 candle power with a visibility of 16 miles.
More than 60 wrecks have occurred in the area, in-
cluding that of the four-masted barque "Adolphe” on
September 30th, 1904. The worst disaster was the wreck of
the steamer “Cawarra” in July, 1866, with the loss of 59 lives.
The position of the light is latitude 32° 55' south, longi-
tude 151° 48' east. Nobby’s is 74 miles from Sydney by sea.
You can have confidence in the quality
of this pure grape brandy
CHATEAU TANUNDA
N.S.W. Agents
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributor of fine spirits for 119 years
CU4
country, which is vitally impor-
tant. Perhaps they live hard,
but they work hard, and this
is the key to their success. I
have met them in business and
in the ordinary walks of life
and 1 feel that we should have
more cf them, not less.
From my observations,
migrants of British stock show
little inclination to go on the
land. They are essentially city-
dwellers and their presence
mainly increases the size of our
great wens. C. B. M.
(N.S.W.).
“All Mod. Cons.”
Like Helen Cramer (B
29/1 /’5B) I find that many
architect - designed homes
bristling with “mod. cons”
make for decidedly incon-
venient living.
Why, for instance, has that
invaluable adjunct to spacious,
uncluttered kitchens the
larder —become extinct? With
all packaged, tinned and
bottled stores shut away behind
the larder-door, there is no
necessity for a kitchen to be
lined with serried rows of cup-
boards, jutting at exactly the
right height to bang an unwary
head bent over the narrow
benches beneath. And without
those cupboards and those use-
lessly narrow benches, there
would be enough space to
install a vast, sturdy table on
which to centralise the para-
phernalia of meal-preparation.
I live in a 30-year-old house,
and it’s convenient, but it has
nothing on the 90-year-old
farmhouse I had a few years
back. That kitchen had a
larder, and a scullery, with
wooden draining-boards and
table; it did look like a
kitchen, of course, which
would probably damn it in the
eyes of experts who decree
the steel filing-cabinet aspect
of modern “cooking-areas.”—
Narumee (Vic.).
Ancient Egypt
Must qualify “Farinmail's”
account of Ptolemaic Egypt
(B. 1/1 / ’5B).
“The regime was Socialist in
character.” Nonsense. At least,
no more so than all the empires
of the ancient world, including
the Egypt of the early dynasties,
which “F.” admires. The
Roman Empire, too, certainly
qualified as “Socialist,” under
“F.’s” definitions.
The Greeks of the Ptolemaic
period may have been a favored
race, and had more privileges
than the Egyptians, though
recent research seems to prove
that Egyptians were eligible for
certain offices, and occupied
them with full authority. Any-
way, it is quite clear there was a
lot of intermarriage, and the
pure Greek strain in any
numbers didn’t last long.
Egypt had been under Persian
rule for the 200 years before
Alexander’s general Ptolemy
took over in 323 b.c. Persia’s
was definitely an “alien rule,”
but the definition does not
really fit the Ptolemies. H. G.
Wells, in his History of the
World, says: “In the Mace-
donian and Greek governors of
the Ptolemies, the Egyptians
found a Government more
sympathetic and tolerable than
any they had known since they
ceased to be a self-governing
empire. It is rather that Egypt
conquered and annexed the
Ptolemies than that the Mace-
donians ruled Egypt. There was
a return to Egyptian political
ideas....”
“The country was bled white”
—“a horde of officials super-
vised every agricultural opera-
tion” —“the peasants were
bound to the soil and heavily
taxed.” But, as I said before,
most of these “Socialistic”
devices applied, not only to
Ptolemaic Egypt, but to just
about every State or empire
governed by an autocracy, both
in the ancient world and later.
One of the main causes of the
French revolution was that “the
peasants were bound to the
soil and heavily taxed.” But
such measures may not always
have been as oppressive as they
sound.
It is always difficult to decide
whether a peasantry (and the
contemporary urban workers)
of a country were oppressed at
some particular period, or not.
We may consider them to have
been “bled white,” but they
may not have considered them-
selves so though doubtless
they grumbled, as we all do.
We cannot truly evaluate the
lot of people who lived
thousands of years ago with a
comparison of our own needs
and desires.
Under some rulers the people,
in the mass, were probably
worse Off than under others ;
but my study of history satisfies
me that, over thousands of
years, the lot of the peasantry
changed very little. I can’t have
it, as “F.” seems to hold, that
life in Pyramid-building Egypt
was better than in Ptolemaic
Egypt.
I’m not denying that life, on
the whole, was all right in
Cheops’ day. The Bulletin
Service Department pointed
out (B. 14/11/’56) that the
Egyptian workmen on the
Pyramids were, in the main,
free men renting from the State
(not themselves owning) a strip
of soil on which they toiled
from sunrise to sunset, happy
enough (they sang as they
worked), and they were not
“straining, sweating slaves
lashed by brutal overseers.”
Against that, though, the
Egyptian laborers were “com-
mandeered” (according to
Weigall, one of the authorities
on ancient Egypt) for three
months in the year to work on
the Pyramids.
All that, however, doesn’t
get away from the fact that
the Ptolemies (as is agreed by
Breasted, Wells and other
authorities) did bring with them
a return of prosperity to Egypt,
Certainly after the first three
Ptolemies, the line degenerated
badly (though the last Ptolemy,
the much-maligned Cleopatra,
was a stateswoman of the first
calibre and is seldom given her
rightful due), and there was
corruption and misrule; but
the peasantry, except in indi-
vidual districts, would have
been little affected,
Actually it was the Romans,


not the Ptolemies, who really
“milked” and ruined Egypt.
As H. Idris Bell, Reader of
Papyrology at Oxford Univer-
sity, says in his Egypt (1948),
“However incompetently some
of the later Ptolemies might
manage their estate, at least
much of the wealth which they
derived from it remained in
the country itself, but Rome
was an absentee landlord, and
a large part of the corn de-
livered as rent, as well as the
numerous money-taxes, was
sent to Rome, and represented
a dead loss to Egypt.” This
“milking” bled Egypt almost to
death. — Keima (Q.).
“Rolf Boldrewood”
T. A. Browne (“Rolf Boldre-
wood”) was, as those American
Fulbright students remarked
on the Red Page (B. 8/1 / ’5B),
truly Australian in outlook.
He was, however, a different
type of Australian from, say,
Henry Lawson, Tom Collins
or Randolph Bedford. Those
Australian authors were in the
radical tradition, derived,
through urban England, from
the revolutionary ideas of 18th-
century and' early 19th-century
Europe.
Boldrewood, as might have
been expected of one with his
background his father,
Captain Sylvester Browne, had
been an officer in the East
India Company’s service—was
a man of the Right politically,
a believer in adaptation to Aus-
tralian conditions of traditional
“There goes their afternoon-tea — that’s at least ten more
minutes’ freedom.”
British political and social
ideas.
He looked on class -
differences, if they were not too
rigid, as natural. On the other
hand he admired the poor but
ambitious young fellow who
rose in the world by hard work
and thrifty living. Several
such characters are treated
sympathetically in his books.
In his attitude to politics and
economics he was representa-
tive of conservative Australian
opinion in his day—an influen-
tial element then as now.
Incidentally, it does not
follow that an outsider will
necessarily fail to interpret the
spirit of a country. One of the
best books written about 20th-
century Australia is Dr.
Thomas Wood’s Cobbers, the
work of an English musical
professor who, when he wrote
it, had only a short acquain-
tance with Australia.
There is also shrewd
comment on Australian life
and character in two books
by post-World-War-II casual
visitors —Eric Linklater’s A
Year of Space and Major
Raven Hart’s Canoe in Aus-
tralia. — Morris the Tinker
(N.S.W.).
Quotations
How sadly has K. L. Wells
(B. 8/1 / ’5B) been deluded by
the flowery erudition of the
quoter. In sighing . for what
he apparently considers to be
a lost art, he has unconsciously
dropped a literary clanger, for
the quotation is merely an
escape-route for the pen-tied or
the buckler of the literary snob.
For one who recalls vividly
the plethora of foreign quota-
tions of the 1920’5, classical
and otherwise, and the shatter-
ing Biblical quotes of a fire-
eating, hell - and - damnation
local parson, I am happy to
be free of the curse of having
other people’s views in a third
person’s context thrust into my
brain.
Not that I have really
suffered by such wonderful
collections as Other Men’s
Minds, One Thousand Classical
Quotations or Minds of the
Great Men. To the contrary, I
have made a very good thing
of them, smugly and satisfy-
ingly.
As leader-writer on a Vic-
torian provincial daily I had
the pleasure of working under
an editor of the old school,
who, in the best traditions of
the Melbourne “Age” of that
period, demanded that Satur-
day’s leading article should be
literary and erudite. “It doesn’t
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 473
Across
I—Commotion where the wheel sits on its axle baby. (6)
4 —Fungus accommodation for slushy sentimentality? (8)
9 —A six-footer runs off to marry four-footers. (9)
10 —The keynote pick-me-up. (5)
12 — Frank has nothing to write. (4)
13 — American money a Russian put in the middle. (7)
16 —Accumulated fellow did imitations. (6)
17 —German dance in South Aus-
tralia makes part of a poem rue a
Maoriland article. (6)
19 — Male optical glass girls of the
same name as each other. (6)
20 — Newly set to work with wax, acid
and copperplate to make a pic-
ture already attempted. (2-4)
22 Painfully stretches one convey-
ance within another tune’s
hereditary factors. (7)
23 — Girl who is made of money. (4)
26 — Petticoats who are expected to be
ready for snickers? (5)
27 Ike Square (anagram). (9)
28 — Flourish a plate for flour-mill
offal. (8)
29 — Otherwise I black the source. (6)
Down
1 — Rashly and recklessly King of the
Cads? (4, 4,5)
2 The ball-and-chain is a fraction
improved. (6-4)
3 111-favored. (4)
5 Cliques in plane overturnings.
(6)
6 Torrid responsibilities of mother
of 10 Africans. (10)
7 Possesses snow drifts? (4)
8— Turf information here is globes.
(7)
11 —A black seaman and a modern
enemy of Israel managed a
N.S.W. country town. (13)
14 — Sad meeting secretly given powers
of attraction. (10)
15 — Thoughtless sovereign who is well-
fleshed? (10)
18 —Enormously atrocious pronouns
with commonsense. (7)
21 —The old man employs temporary
rests. (6)
24 — Mail from this South American
capital. (4)
25 — Just a fiesta. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 472


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS .
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to "The Bulletin or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
matter a damn whether they
understand it, so long as they
read it and think we know what
we are talking about,” was his
injunction, and I bowed to his
will because I found it easier to
write a leader than a resigna-
tion.
However, I must confess that
it was to readers like K. L.
Wells I was writing, and they,
knowing nothing of my
methods, . wrote in their
hundreds to the editor, praising
the merits (literary) of the
Saturday leaders.
Now that I am safely out of
reach of outraged readers, I
can bare the secret. Every
Friday evening I would apply
myself to Minds of Great Men
and from the index choose the
subject for the morrow’s leader.
From the subject I would
select four quotations, then I
would set about writing to a
pattern of one quotation to
every two slips.
It was really amazing how,
playing with other people's
thoughts, I could fill in the
gaps to give some continuity.
Sentences beginning, “Plato
perhaps best expressed this
when he ” flowed in
chattering platoons from my
typewriter to the unbounded
joy of my editor, the awed
wonder of readers and the
cynical disregard of myself.
There is the whole sordid
background, and now, because
I have eaten so heartily of the
rotten apple, I cannot trust
another writer who drags in the
philosophers to support . an
argument or idea he portrays
as his own. —H. F. B. (Vic.).
Blarney
The view persists in Australia
that Sir Thomas Blarney was
Australia’s first and only Field-
Marshal. This is a popular mis-
conception, for although he was
apparently the first Australian
to become a Field-Marshal,
Blarney was never a Field-
Marshal in the Australian
Army.
The King, in the Birthday
Honors of 1950, promoted
General Sir Thomas Blarney to
the rank of Field-Marshal in
the British Army.
In the Commonwealth
Honors List, as published in
“S. M. Herald” (8/6/’5O), it
is clearly stated:
A notable feature is the promotion
of General Sir Thomas Blarney to
tne rank of Field-Marshal of the
British Army, an unprecedented
tribute to the status of military
leadership in this country.
On September 16, 1950, Sir
Thomas Blarney, by that time
a sick and half-paralysed man,
sat in a wheelchair in a room
at Melbourne’s Repatriation
Hospital at Heidelberg. Before
a distinguished company in the
room (which included Prime
Minister Menzies, the
Governor of Victoria, Sir
Dallas Brooks, and 18 Army
Generals and officers of Sir
Thomas’s war staff) Governor-
“Blowing ‘Reveille,’ damn you, stand to ATTENTION!”
General Mr. McKell, on behalf
of the King, presented Sir
Thomas with his Field-
Marshal’s baton.
He died on May 27, 1951. —
G.B. (N.S.W.).
Shelley and Universities
“J.C.M.” (B. 22/1/’5B) made
an unfortunate choice when he
selected Shelley as an example
of a writer whose mind had
been broadened by a univer-
sity education. So it might
have been ; but in spite of, not
because of, Oxford. The
moment Shelley expressed
publicly views on religion
which ran counter to those of
his professors he was kicked
out —and he was probably the
greatest Englishman of his
epoch, and possibly one of the
greatest men of all time.
We could hardly say that of
the other examples mentioned
by “J.C.M.” Roosevelt and
R. G. Menzies rnay be very
clever men, and Mr. Menzies
may know a lot about the law
and party-politics, but he does
not know the things that
Shelley knew ; nor has he been
perplexed about the universal
problems that perplexed
Shelley. Will anything Mr.
Roosevelt said or did be
remembered 100 years hence?
But much of what Shelley
said will be remembered. Why?
Because he fulfilled the pre-
judices of Oxford or because
he went against them?
I don’t understand what
“J.C.M.” is driving at when
he asks whether Shakspeare
would have been successful
without the path-breaking of
the University Wits, whoever
they were. Shakspeare broke
his own path—geniuses always
do. They follow their own star,
they don’t follow the star of
some professor of literary
appreciation. Henry Lawson
didn’t have to wait for a Chair
of Australian Literature to
show him how to write great
Australian stories. And who
first recognised the quality of
Lawson’s stories —Archibald of
The Bulletin or the University
of Sydney?
I knew Lawson in his latter
days when he used to roll-up
at The Bulletin office at nine
in the morning as drunk as
Chloe, speechless, and his long
frame propped against the
editorial doorway. The editor
(Prior) would swing round in
his chair and say, “All right,
Henry, there’s a cheque waiting
for you in the accountant's
office.”
Now who was taking care of
Australian literature then?
The Bulletin or the Univer-
sity of Sydney, which wouldn’t
have given Henry a job even
as a liftman? —M. G. Skipper
(Vic.).
Poetry
Could any “university-
nurtured” writer (B. 22/1/’5B)
honestly say that he or she
wrote verse because of a uni-
versity education? Granted,
the stimulation of such a life
may hasten the “hatching
process” of a poem, and the
actual mechanics of verse-
writing may become more
easily absorbed, but talent, in
a greater or lesser degree, will
eventually show itself if it’s
there.
Wouldn’t McAuley have
written the eight charming lines
of “Late Winter” without going
to university? And Judith
Wright found her “centuries of
cattle-bells”? The quotation
from the “Times Literary Sup-
plement” underlines the point
—the latter writer’s “experience
of being a woman” is so purely
personal, that, even if the actual
mechanics of poetry are taught,
the basis, the core of it,
remains an intrinsic thing.—
Dicky (N.S.W.).


During hand feeding
“shy feeders” among
sheep may be coaxed
by starting with good
lucerne or chaff or by
adding molasses to
the feed. When they
become accustomed to
hand feeding sheep
coaxed by one of
these ways will
usually take any feed
offering and lucerne
or molasses feeding
can then be stopped.
To give lambs a good
start in life they
should be marked
and tailed with Elas-
trator Rubber Rings
and not the knife.
This will reduce set-
back and assist them
to retain prime con-
dition.
ROYAL JELLY
Direct from the bees. Fabulously
rich vitalising dietary supplement.
One month’s supply, in capsules,
£5/5/-, or mixed in 6 ounces of
honey, £5. Technical data 2/Oi
Free Leaflet.
B. A. PEACOCK
Apiarist, 21 Carbine Streai,
EERAKG. VICTORIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
MORE ABOUT VERTICAL MULCHING
AN earlier article (B.
28 /8 / ’57) described this
new subsoiling trick being tried
out in the U.S.A. which, in
spite of the enthusiasm of its
inventors, seemed rather im-
practical at first sight.
More recent reports from
American sources indicate that
the idea is now interesting quite
a few people.
It might be recalled that
“vertical mulching” is the name
given by agricultural engineers
and agronomists of Purdue
University, Indiana, to a
method of blowing trash into
the ground behind a subsoiler
as a soil- and water-conserVa-
tion practice.
In early trials an engine-
functioned flail-type forage-
harvester was hitched behind a
track-type tractor with mounted
subsoiler. Wings attached to
the top of the subsoiler
momentarily held open a V-
shaped channel in the soil,
about 20in. deep, as the imple-
ment moved through it. The
channel tapered from 6in. wide
at the top to 2fin. at the
bottom,
A modified and extended
discharge - spout from the
following forage-harvester sent
a steady flow of chopped
forage or stubble down the
groove. After the soil settled
back into place there remained
a channel about 2in. wide and
20in. deep, filled with chopped
organic-matter.
As explained in the earlier
article, the technique was a
development of the two earlier
ideas of subsoiling and subsoil
fertilisation, and its supporters
hoped that the trash-filled
channels would soak-up and
hold water in the soil, while at
the same time helping to remove
excess water by percolation
down-grade. Also, organic-
matter content of the soil would
be increased, and earthworm
and bacterial activity stepped-
up.
There seems to be good
reasons for believing that these
hopes have been fulfilled, at
least to some extent
Successful Conservation
Trials
In the spring of 1955 about
sfin. of rain fell in three days
on sloping experiment-plots in
Indiana. After 2in. of rain had
fallen, water was running off
the undisturbed control-plots
and the subsoiled plots. But
no surface-water was present
on the vertical-mulched plots.
Free water, was present in the
channels at about I2in. below
the surface.
As the rain continued, the
channels gradually filled, and at
the end of the three days of
rain they were full —but there
was no significant surface-run-
off from the vertical-mulched
plots. Surplus water drained
slowly and safely away down
the channels. On the other
hand, there was continuous run-
off from the “subsoiled-only”
plots-and the controls after 2in.
had fallen.
A more severe test of the
method was reported from
Indiana in the spring and
summer of 1957. The season
was unusually wet, with
numerous intense rainstorms
resulting in runoff and erosion
in most of the watersheds in the
area under investigation.
Included in each group of
test-plots are two subsoiling
treatments and one vertical-
mulch treatment, the opera-
tions being on the contour.
The most spectacular results
were on one particular sloping
wheat-stubble paddock. Only
one rainstorm prior to seedbed
preparation resulted in any
runoff from the three treat-
ments. However, this particular
storm was of such intensity and
duration as to be expected in
“Cripes, I'd like to take the new Waitress out. I'd get her
to give me extra puddin an spuds."
the area less than once in 100
years. A total of over 4in. fell
overnight, with 2in. falling in
20 minutes in one storm, and
If in. falling in an hour, only
six hours later, on the soaking
wet ground.
Runoff ’from unworked
control-plots after the first
storm was 10 to 20 times that
from subsoiled and vertical-
mulched plots. The controls
lost an average of fin. of water ;
less than l/100in. came from
the vertical-mulched soil.
After the second storm, more
than an inch ran off the
control-plots ; only an average
of 1/ lOin. ran off the mulched
plots.
Nine days later a steady fin.
of rain fell in 3f hours. About
fin. ran off the control-plots.
The subsoil-mulched plots lost
none.
The amount of soil lost from
treated plots was insignificant.
Similar results were obtained
on other watersheds which were
tested. Although they varied in
previous treatment and eroda-
bility, in every case the differ-
ences in runoff were large, and
of undoubted significance.
Some interesting observations
have been made in comparing
plots which were subsoiled, but
not mulched, with those which
were vertical-mulched.
At first, as shown by the
above results, the “subsoiled-
only” plots caught water about
as well as the vertical-mulched
ones during the heavy rains, and
from the results it is considered
that subsoiling has a valuable
place in holding runoff on some
soils. On other soils, however,
the “stibsoiled-only” grooves
soon closed-up, but the vertical-
mulched plots remained open,
letting water deep into the soil
through tight hardpan.
Both treatments, if done on
the contour, give good results
in erosion- and runoff-control,
at least for the first year.
Vertical mulching seems to
retain its effectiveness in this
regard for two or mere years.
Other Aspects
The more recent work has
confirmed earlier ideas on other
advantages of the operation.
Drainage: The effect on
drainage has now been studied
for two years, and while no
conclusive results have been
obtained on the value of
vertical-mulched channels as


DEVELOP YOUR
PROPERTY
ECONOMICALLY
• •
WITH
HUMES
REINFORCED
CONCRETE
WELL
LININGS
Humes Well Linings are built
to give a lifetime of trouble-free service! Ensure
permanent protection for your underground water
supply by using Humes centrifugally spun
reinforced concrete Well Linings.
iimiiii s i i 4 iii
43 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY. 8X4165
FACTORIES IN.
Adamitown, Grafton, Hardan, lltmora, More*,
Qutanbayan, Rydahnara, Tamworth H/41
secondary-drainage laterals in
tile- or mole-drainage schemes,
it has been shown that the
vertical channels are useful in
taking away surplus water held
in low spots by sub-surface or
surface hardpan. Alternatively,
if rainwater is held in the
soil where it falls on a water-
shed by contour-subsoiling or
vertical mulching, concentra-
tion of it in low-lying areas is
reduced.
Soil organisms: In some
soils the organic material has
greatly increased earthworm
activity, and presumably that
of other soil-organisms. In one
light silt-loam, earthworms
honeycombed the soil adjacent
to the channels to depths of
up to 20in. The assumptions is
that the subsoil structure could
thus be improved more or less
permanently.
Irrigation : The supposition
mentioned in the earlier
Bulletin article, that vertical
mulching might help to increase
the infiltration-rate when
flood-irrigating some slowly
permeable soils or sloping land,
has not as yet been tested.
Suitable Mulches
Almost any dry material with
a high carbon-content, and
available in sufficient quantity,
appears to be satisfactory.
Green lucerne has been used,
but it decomposed too rapidly,
and failed to hold the channel
open.
Wheat - straw, oat - straw,
maize-stubble and corn-cobs
have all been successful.
Actually, the best results in
the U.S.A. seem to have been
with dry maize-stubble. In
Purdue tests, stubble and
weeds have kept the channels
open for two years.
The important point is that
a good bulk of dry material is
wanted when the soil is fit for
subsoiling, that is, in summer.
In Australia this is just the
time when crop-stubbles or dry
grass are available.
Subsoil channels, spaced 20in.
apart and filled to a depth of
18in. to 20in., require approxi-
mately two tons per acre of
chopped oat-straw and weeds.
Machinery
Various machinery-manufac-
turers have taken-up the idea,
and already one new machine
which does the vertical-mulch-
ing job in one operation has
been developed in Illinois, and
is to be marketed in 1958. At
least three other companies,
widely spaced in Ohio, Oregon
and Texas, are working on
others.
Purdue scientists feel con-
fident that a means has been
found to check runoff for
several years, and that the
machinery problem is being
solved. Next they are looking
into ways of adapting vertical
mulching into a regular crop-
ping-system.
Research is also going on in
many other areas of the U.S.A.
One of the best hopes
expressed to date is that it
might be possible to crop with
safety sloping land which, up
to now, was likely to wash
away with any rain which fell
after cultivation.
For this reason alone, when
the cost of equipment becomes
reasonable, vertical mulching
could be of great value to the
grain-growing areas of Aus-
tralia.
J. E. Slee.
Cracked Grain
“Banksia”: The increased
percentage of cracked grain in
some wheat samples this season
is more a sign of the need for
more careful harvesting than
for better grain. Although the
cause has not been pinpointed,
the larger, flintier grain this
season could be an explana-
tion. Closer attention to speed,
drum-setting and screens could
reduce the problem.
Better screening could also
improve the barley sample.
Small grains—often present in
the bottoms of ears —must be
kept out of the sample for best
malting quality.
Sown Pastures
“Jay”: Rain-grown sown
pastures have trebled the stock-
ing - rate in the 25in.-rainfall
Chinchilla district, according to
the annual report of the
Queensland Dairy Pasture
Improvement Advisory Com-
mittee.
Pastures of green-panic and
lucerne, and Rhodes-grass and
lucerne, at Baking Board, near
Chinchilla, showed great
promise in a year of below-
average rainfall. They carried
a beast to three acres compared
with a beast to nine acres on
native-pastures in the same
district.
The report describes 100
pasture-trials carried out during
the last season. The trials were
laid down in every dairying
district in Queensland, from
the Atherton Tableland to the
N. S. Wales border.
The merits of topdressing
dairy pastures with superphos-
phate to promote clover-growth
were again examined in coastal
districts of south-eastern
Queensland. It was found
that treatment with 4cwt. of
super, and lOcwt. of lime to the
acre increased clover-yields up
to six times. This work shows
that, given sufficient soil-
moisture, establishment of
clovers in these pastures is very
largely a question of applying
the correct type and amount of
fertiliser.
Exploratory trials in south-
eastern Queensland with the so-
called tropical grasses and
legumes are described. Even in
the sub-tropical climate, these
pasture-species, especially the
legumes, are showing great
promise on suitable soils.
Studies that could lead to
more efficient methods of con-
serving excess feed during flush
periods for use in dry times are
being carried out at the Animal
Research Institute, Yeerong-
pilly.
One section of this work
involves grazing-management
studies. Here rotational grazing
with the conservation of excess
pasture as silage is compared
with continuous grazing. The
second project is a study of the
effect of different methods of
manufacture on the use and
value of grass-silage.
Fodder Bushes
“Wantilla”: The current
exodus of sheep from many
dry outback areas would not be
so great if more attention had
been given to growing fodder-
trees during the last 10 years.
Many native trees have their
roots well down below the
parched surface, and are still
drawing sustenance when the
soil is bare.
As well as providing feed
when times are tough, these
trees give valuable shade and
shelter, and add to the beauty
of a property.
In the really tough, dry
country, suitable trees include
the well - known kurrajong,
wilga, mulga, myall, willow,
currant-bush, emu-bush, rose-
wood, boree, and pine.
The most popular is the
shapely kurrajong, which is
often a slow grower in the


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £Bl,ooo s ooo sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia: F. H. F.gerton,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Manager for Australia.
tender years, but is well worth
waiting for. At least one grazier
uses a line of kurrajongs as
fence “posts” in Victoria’s
Upper Murray. The kurrajong
is said to prefer limey soils, but
it also grows on rocky ridges.
The apple-bush (cabbage-
tree) is said to contain a poison,
but sheep can eat it without
harm on most occasions, as can
be seen by the number of trees
which are neatly trimmed to
the height of a sheep’s reach.
Another valuable tree is the
lucerne - tree, which can be
grown reasonably easily any-
where where the rainfall is fair
to good. If grazed carefully,
the salt-bushes benefit from
regular “pruning” by sheep,
although, of course, sheep
shouldn’t be allowed to eat the
plants into the ground.
During the 1940’s an experi-
ment took place in W-A. Sheep
were fed on mulga during a
drought, and over seven
months the sheep on mulga
were in better shape than sheep
which were handfed. The
mulga-fed sheep had a 52 per
cent, lambing, the other sheep
were too poor to mate. The
wool-clip from the mulga-fed
group was much better, too.
A Word from
Tasmania
A short article by John
Foster, president of the Tas-
manian Fine Merino Breeders
Association, which appeared in
a Bulletin Wool Issue a
couple of years ago, aroused
considerable interest at the
time; and, in fact, it still crops
up in conversation. Among
recent visitors to The Bulletin
who have mentioned it have
been woolgrowers from
Queensland, South Australia
and N. S. Wales.
Much of the interest, of
course, is the natural curiosity
of sheepmen in sheep of a
different type to their own,
grown under vastly different
conditions. There is also an
equally natural historical
interest in a type of Merino
which was once the dominant
One in Australia, even on
country which for many years
now has carried the big-
framed, medium -to - strong
Merino. Tasmanian rams once
came regularly to the Sydney
sales, Queensland had studs of
Tasmanian Merinos, some of
them in districts where con-
ditions were very hard indeed,
and Tasmanian sheep were
exported to South Africa.
Featherstonhaugh, in his book
of reminiscences, gives an
interesting account of his first
sight of a Peppin sheep, in the
western Riverina. He was very
unfavorably impressed, he said,
because his ideal then —“like all
knowledgeable sheepmen”
was the Tasmanian type of
Saxon Merino.
Different points made by
John Foster in his Wool Issue
article appealed to different
people. But the majority of
those who commented on the
article mentioned one para-
graph. This is it:
Here at Pleasant Banks we have
a one-acre experimental paddock
which runs 25 to 27 sheep all the
year round. They get a little sup-
plementary feed in winter, and this
paddock cuts me over £2OO-worth of
wool annually. What can be done
on one acre could, I believe, be done
on many acres.
For the benefit of those
leaders who have a particular
interest in some of the points
raised by Mr. Foster, here are
some extracts from a recent
letter he wrote to The
Bulletin. On general manage-
ment :
Above all, sheep must be kept
free of worms. Only occasional
dosing is needed if four paddocks
are provided for each mob of sheep,
and if they are rotated every 10
days. They will not get pulpy-kidney
il a good mineral-lick, with plenty
of sulphur added, is provided.
If some green-feed is not avail-
able, silage should be given. Bran,
and lucerne-meal, are useful, too.
Here in Tasmania we have to feed
all stock in the winter. Oats are
grown and fed green. Grass-hay
and silage is used. Right through
the summer our sheep always seem
to find a green pick, and need no
feeding.
On the future of the finer
wools:
The world trend today is for
lighter materials and thinner
fabrics. Some of this can be met
by synthetics. But, fortunately for
us, wool is still popular, and it is
only line and superfine wools that
can fill this demand....
On the merits of the Saxon
Merino:
The pure Tasmanian Saxon
Merino is the only sheep that will
produce fine and superfine wool on
improved-pasture; and this wool is
not damaged by excessive wet.
Here at Pleasant Banks we can
grow wool up to 130’s count, blue-
white, yielding up to 75 per cent.,
on country carrying eight to 10
sheep to the acre, average rainfall
28in.
. It takes no more feed to grow one
pound of 120’s wool than to grow a
pound of wool of 50’s count, and the
better the ground is covered with
pasture the cleaner the wool should
stay Pure Saxon sheep have a
useful life of 10 to 12 years...,
Management again:-
The Saxon Merino needs a good
deal of scrub and herbage. It is a
tonic to them, and without it they
will not thrive. I find pine-needles
the best, but nearly any tree-leaf is
good, particularly wattle. Heje, we
cart out pine-tree branches to’ the
sheep at least once a fortnight,...
Remember, the warp-length is very
important: for 70’s wool, 3iin.; for
74’s, 3in.; and for 80’s and finer,
2Jin. Buyers will always pay more
for wool the exact length to suit
their machinery. Hoggets’ wool is
usually too long, so, to overcome
this, we shear our lambs two or
three months after the general
shearing. Then, as hoggets, they
only have nine or 10 months’ wool
on them. This gives a higher price
for both lamb- and hogget-wool.
Mr. Foster adds that if any
Bulletin readers have a
particular interest in some of
the points he has raised and
want further information, he
will do his best to answer-
inquiries sent to him at
Pleasant Banks, Evandale, Tas-
mania. There, incidentally,
John Foster has the permit,
dated 1822, authorising his
maternal great - grandfather,
John Leake, to bring sheep to
Van Diemen’s Land from
Saxony.
Dairying
“Cock y”: “J.F.” (B.
22/l/’5B) hit the nail square
on the head when he said
“dairying is the most important
single branch of British agri-
culture, whereas here it is a
very minor one,” This fact
helps to shape most of the
progress in the industry in
Australia.
As most dairyfarmers are
mixed farmers, many of the
practices and methods adopted
overseas are not economical
here for the simple reason that,
if implemented, they tend to
overcapitalise one aspect of the
overall farm-programme.
Take one or two examples.
There is a tendency towards
elaborate dairy-buildings. That
may be all right in other coun-
tries where the cows are housed
for many months of the year,
but here, where the farmer is
only in the shed for several
hours each day, it can be a
move in the wrong direction.
A simple, comfortable shed,
with water laid-on and plenty
of drainage, is all that is needed.
A concrete anteyard and exit-
race are also necessary.
Elaborate sheds with sliding
roofs and automatic sprays for
the floors are all right if y° u
have plenty of money, and th®
farm is just a hobby. But u
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(30/1/’58)
Heavy rain should fall 'on the Peninsula, north coast
and part of the Gulf country during February, but the
balance of Queensland will probably get only poor rain.
Heavy rains and flooding are likely on the north coast
and Peninsula during March, with moderate to good rain
elsewhere.
Moderate, patchy rains are indicated on the coast of
N.S.W. during February, patchy elsewhere. Rainfall should
improve during March, with moderate rain on the coast,
northern and central tablelands, and in the centra! west.
Moderate rain likely in part of the Victorian western
divisions during February, with light to moderate, patchy
rains in the central division. The balance of the State
may get only poor rainfall, with general rain commencing
in May.
Rainfall probably poor in South Australia during
February, March and April, hut good general rains should
commence in the agricultural areas during May. Good rains
are likely in the interior during June.
Rainfall likely to be poor in most of Western Australia
during February, but good general rains should occur in
many areas during March, and this may be associated with
the development of a severe willy-willy off the north-west
coast. /
LENNOX WALKER.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
you are in it for a living, and
nioney is not oozing out of the
pocket, something important
out in the paddock will have to
be neglected to pay for the
super shed.
Let’s face up to the pro-
blem. Any of the investiga-
tions made into the industry,
provided the investigators
haven’t a sectional axe to grind,
always finish up with these
observations: Most of the
herds are underfed for three or
four months of the year. You
can’t feed expensive concen-
trates unless you have a more
than average herd and are on
liquid milk or something better ,
than butter. j
This is the crux of the
matter. Yet only a fraction of
the cows in Australia are tested
for butterfat, and anyone
with an eye in his head will tell
you it’s foolish t 6 feed cows on
expensive foods unless you
know exactly what they are
giving. The very basis for any
feeding-programme is missing
on most of our farms.
Queensland, at time of writ-
ing, is going through an old-
man drought. Most of the
dairyfarms are horribly short
of fodder. Yet in the seasons
preceding the drought, there
was more than enough, and
tons and tons went to waste.
Why wasn’t it conserved?
These basic questions are the
ones that must be tackled first,
because they are bound-up with
basic weaknesses of the in-
dustry in Australia. We
haven’t solved the elementary
problems.
These questions could be
taken as a pointer that most
dairymen in Australia are poor
farmers. That would be very
far from the truth. Most are
successful men who have more
than one basket for carrying
their eggs. If they can make
a good living out of dairying
as a sideline to other farming
activities, good luck to them.
If they don’t know the answers
to the questions listed above,
it’s time the white-coated boys
told them.
With an acute shortage of
reliable labor on the farm, any
advice given must be slanted
to one man who, with the help
of a son, can do the job. Take
fodder-conservation. If you
ask a farmer to dig out a pit
and stow away 100 tons of
silage, he will agree that the idea
is sound, but will want to know
how he is going to do that and
the other farm-work as well.
G o ve r n m ent agricultural
officers preach the gospel of
herd-testing, but it is very
seldom that one hears any sup-
port from dairy associations or
“Snap out of it, Smith —if
you Was PAYIN’ for this
exercise you'd LOVE it!”
banks. They should be loud-
voiced in these matters, too, as
any drop in supplies hits them
as well as the farmer.
Banks and dairy associations
could do a lot towards assist-
ing with the purchase of
machinery to lay aside fodder-
reserves. It is generally the
chap who can’t afford this sort
of thing who gets belted to leg
in a drought. While co-opera-
tive machinery-pools have only
been partly successful, a pool
of machinery for conserving
fodder should be an unqualified
success, as the time-factor is
more flexible with this sort of
equipment than with harvesters
in a crop, which has to be
taken off at once or most will
be lost.
The thing that strikes me as
most needed in the dairy in-
dustry is a full understanding
of costs and capital-equipment
in relation to the other activi-
ties carried out on the farm.
We tend to decry the dairy-
farmer who has not all the
latest in elaborate buildings
and piles of concentrates to
feed to his cattle. But this is
only a minor part of our farm-
activity. We are far in advance
of other countries in other rural
pursuits.
When it comes to costs, we
tend to look at them from a
purely dairy point of view.
The farm is used for several
forms of activity, such as grain,
pigs, and, in this State, even
cattle and sheep. One can’t
expect to have the latest in
equipment for all of these when
the size of the farm is limited.
As a final remark, there is
too much talk about the pro-
duction of our cows compared
with those of countries over-
seas. You can’t expect land
worth a few pounds an acre to
return as much as land worth
several hundred pounds. If it
did, it wouldn’t be valued so
low. If the land is cheap, the
farmer can put up with a lower
herd-production as his costs
are not so high.
Again, it is useless comparing
land in the Victorian high-rain-
fall belt with country in mar-
ginal qreas of Queensland.
You can’t expect to grow the
[Softer, more balanced pastures
in the marginal areas. There-
fore, you can only expect
lower production. It is not
the fault of the farmer. He is
probably doing the best with
the land available to him ; and
in the long run, if he goes in
for sidelines and keeps down
his costs, he may not be so
badly off after all.
I heard Professor Boutflour
lecture, and had a long talk
with him. I also heard Peter-
sen when he was out here.
Both agree that their ideas are
suited to the conditions of their
own country, but are in
advance of many of ours.
What we w*ant to find out is
why farmers are not testing
their cows and why they don’t
conserve fodder and feed all
the year round.
These ideas have been
preached by experts for years.
Now is the time to find out
why they have not been carried
out. The farmer may not be
to blame. He may be getting
along with dairying and other
sidelines. If he is, what is
wrong with that?
Ladino
“Panton”: Ladino-clover is
very popular in the U.S., but
hasn’t made much progress here
—partly, no doubt, because of
the dollar drought, but also
because most Australian
irrigators have thought local
irrigation-white-clover to be
superior.
Results of recent experiments
. at Leeton (N.S.W-) Experi-
ment Farm, on the Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation Area, don’t
square with this belief. Ladino
gave more hay at an early
cutting than irrigation-white
and New Zealand white-clover,
and made excellent early
growth; an important point,
this, where length of the grazing
season is the object, ratner than
greater production at a time
when feed is abundant, anyway.
In the Leeton experiments the
sheep preferred ladino to the
other two white-clovers.
Weed Worries
“Riverine”: Wild-heliotrope
(Barooga - weed, caterpillar -
weed) on the fallows, and stink-
wort in the stubbles and along
the channel - banks, mean
double.
Heliotrope, which causes
copper to collect in the liver
until there is enough to cause
“yellows,” should be kept out
of the way of the flock. This
isn’t easy when fallows have to
he grazed, but other ways of
controlling weedy land should
be found if trouble is to be
sidestepped. '
One way out is to use a
special mob of dry sheep for
the fallows and to sell the
woollies for slaughter—not to
another sheepowner. This
year’s copper stays in the liver
to build-up to the danger-point
when more heliotrope is eaten.
Ways of beating stinkwort
are to eat it out early, cultivate
it, or spray it before it begins
to flower. Putting sheep on it
when the flowers show the
slightest yellow is asking for
trouble.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
Storms and lightning allied to the
enervating heat made the weather No. 1
topic for the week. The lightning had
many of the women frightened nearly out
of their wits, much to the amusement of
their husbands. Conversations like this
went on: “There’s nothing to be
frightened of—why are you scared?”
“Because I might be killed.” “Well,
there’s nothing you can do about it, is
there? So don’t be frightened.” This line
of argument is not at all calculated to
reassure and seems very illogical, even if
it is the man’s way.
1t It it
Other topics included the brooch
(shaped like a flower) of rubies and
diamonds which is to be presented to the
Queen Mother. It looks very beautiful,
though many think that something more
original should have been chosen. One
remembers the bracelets sent to Queen
Elizabeth on her Coronation and how
they seemed to be the thing which took
Prince Charles’s eye amidst all the beauti-
ful things the Queen was wearing. Not,
of course, that we are aiming to please
Prince Charles when we make a present
to the Queen Mother, but it is a fact
that we can become too set in our ways.
V #
Britain’s Prime Minister Harold Mac-
millan and Lady Dorothy Macmillan
were, of course, the guests-of-the-week.
The surprising thing was that the heat
did not seem to worry them at all during
their strenuous social programme. Lady
Dorothy said, “I revel in it,” as she shook
hands with guests at the reception given
by the Conference of Joint Empire
Societies at the Trocadero.
Earlier in the day the distinguished
pair had been guests-of-honor at a civic
reception given by the Lord Mayor (Aid.
H. Jensen) and Mrs. Jensen at the Town
Hall. In the intense midday heat Lady
Dorothy looked cool in grey with soft
pink flowers covering her hat and pink
gloves. The coolest-looking person in the
room, however, was Dr. Provido, repre-
senting the Philippines, whose shirt-jacket
was of paper-thin woven-hemp, its
sleeves short, its neck open. Admiral
Harries, much more formal in full naval
“whites,” certainly looked cool, but the
Lord Mayor in his regalia with chain-of-
office must have qualified for the most
warmly-dressed person present.
In the afternoon Lady Dorothy visited
C.W.A. headquarters at Potts Point, and
for her appearance -at the Empire
Societies party changed into a deep-green
taffeta dress with a matching feather-hat.
Another hat, of soft white ostrich-
feathers, worn by Mrs. Bruce McFarlan,
also took the eye at this reception. In the
receiving-line were Mr. and Mrs. Ivan
Black (representing the Royal Empire
Society), Mrs. H. H. McNall (deputy-
president of the Victoria League, of which
Mr. Macmillan’s mother had been one of
the founders in the ’nineties), and Major
and Mrs. Cecil Chapman of the Overseas
League.
Joy Grisold, the young Australian
actress who is so amusing in the beauty-
parlor scene in “Salad Days" at the
Elizabethan, made her first stage-appear-
ance at the National Theatre with Ray
Lawler in "Ginger Meggs.” She also
appeared with several other amateur
theatre-groups in Melbourne in a variety
of productions, including Shakspeare. Joy
conies from a family with a wide interest
in music and theatre, and she has a fine
mezzo-soprano voice. Her great-aunt,
Martha Owen Grisold, was one of Melba's
accompanists. Gordon De Lisle photo.
An evening by candlelight was held at
the Mosman home of Mr. and Mrs.
Alfred Oesterlin on Friday to welcome
celebrity-pianist Gordon Watson, who
is a life-member of the Contemporary
Music Group. The president, Mr. H.
Kenneth Cook, and executive officers
Beverly Lee, John Harding and Jeannette
Lemmone organised the party in associa-
tion with Mrs. Oesterlin. Among those
present were Dr. and Mrs. C. E. W. Bean,
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Lloyd Jones, Mr.
and Mrs. Eric Hurt, Mr. and Mrs.
Douglas McCallum, Mr. and Mrs. John
McCoy, Ramsay Pennicuick, Graham
Phillips, Frank Harris and Charles
Meeking.
☆ ☆ ☆
An interesting feature of the Contem-
porary Recorded Music Group of Aus-
tralia is that a large percentage of the
members are artists in the “Herald”
Sketch Club, which is also run by Mr. H.
Kenneth Cook.
The glamor fashion-parade of the early
season will undoubtedly be the showing
of Le Louvre fashions at Toftmonks,
Elizabeth Bay, on Wednesday, February
19, at the cocktail-hour. Tickets for this
parade are four-guineas each, and
proceeds will benefit the Royal Blind
Society of N.S.W.
V V- V
The venue of the Coral Sea Ball, which
was changed to the Trocadero a few years
ago, is to be moved back to Prince’s this
year. The Australian-American Associa-
tion Ladies’ Committee organises this ball,
at which heads of the Australian Services
and their wives will be among the official
guests. President for the first time this
year is Mrs. Lionel McFadyen, with Mrs.
Keith Yorston treasurer and Mrs. J. C.
Belisario secretary. Mrs. Noel Vincent is
arranging an “Artists and Sunday
Painters’ ” exhibition to be held in March,
proceeds of which will help the associa-
tion’s funds.
☆ *
Something novel is the Australia-wide
contest to find “Miss Homemaker,” the
housewife of the future. This week more
than 25 of the top home-science students
in N.S.W. sit down to a written examina-
tion in Sydney and 18 N.S.W. towns, then
all the State finalists will be brought to
Sydney for a searching, five-hour test
(including three hours of practical demon-
strations in cookery, laundering and
home-management) to decide the national
winner. Hills Hoists is sponsoring this
contest, which is to find an outstanding
young Australian. She will receive £3OO
in prizemoney, and her school will be
presented with an, inscribed shield to
hold for one year.
V V V
Modern illustrations and a modern
theme make a charming book for young-
sters by V. H. Drummond, Mrs. Easter
and the Storks, recently published by
Faber and Faber. There is just that
contact with reality which makes fan-
tasy so credible to children, and even to
the young-at-heart. It doesn’t seem at all
impossible as the story progresses to
believe that if one waved one’s umbrella
in a strong wind from the deck of a liner
one would be carried aloft, nor that one
could land on a bird’s back by skilfully
lowering the said brolly. Violet Drum-
mond is perhaps the most generous of
illustrators among writers of children’s
stories, every little bit of narrative being
decorated with about twice as much
illustration, and the whole giving off an
aura of gaiety, suspense and charm.
☆ ☆ ☆
The cutest invention announced of
recent times is the American walkie-
cOokie, by means of which housewives,
though they be miles away, will be able
to regulate oven-heat or turn the oven
off by using a miniature radio-transmitter
tuned to a receiver in the kitchen. No-
body, however, will be able to cause Mrs.
Jones’s cake to sink, or Mrs. Brown’s pie
to burn, by playing about with the trans-
mitter. Every transmitter will have a
different wavelength.


MELBOURNE
The stage of the Town Hall disappeared
under a lush green lawn, inset with beds
of gay petunias, marigolds ans phlox,
when the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress
(Cr. and Mrs. F. W. Thomas) gave a
reception in honor of the British Prime
Minister and Lady Dorothy Macmillan.
Also admired by the 1200 guests were
the city’s coat-of-arms set in the centre
of a grey-and-silver brocade curtain back-
ing the garden-setting, the conifers, the
flags of Commonwealth nations and the
white marble fountain set in a flower-
banked pool in front of the official party.
The guests-of-honor were welcomed by
the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress and
the Town Clerk. Official guests included
the Prime Minister and Dame Pattie, the
Premier and Mrs. Henry Bolte, Lieut. -
Governor Sir Edmund Herring and Lady
Herring and Lord Bruce and Lady Bruce.
Lady Dorothy Macmillan’s graceful
gown was of midnight-blue satin, with
the bodice swathed in a mist of white
tulle. The Lady Mayoress chose a full-
skirted gown of cinnamon nylon-tulle
mounted on taffeta and inset with panels
of lace. The bodice was of cinnamon
lace. Dame Pattie wore pale-orchid-pink
laces, Mrs. Bolte cream brocade. Lady
Herring’s full-skirted gown was of mist-
blue tulle, and Lady Bruce added a black
lace stole to her black gown. Lady
Carrington, wife of the U.K. High Com-
missioner, wore ice-blue satins.
Among many lovely frocks noticed
were the Marchesa Serafini’s hyacinth-
blue chiffon, the sheath-skirt of which
broke into full godets just above the hem-
line ; the black-and-silver national dress
worn by Madame Liung, wife of the
Chinese Consul; Mrs. James Buchanan’s
full-skirted white faille, the deep back
of the bodice caught by a series of pastel-
toned flat bows; the sheath-gown and
wide stole of black satin gaily patterned
in flowers, worn by Madame Schoo, wife
of the Netherlands Consul; and Marian
McPherson’s short bouffant frock of ice-
blue chiffon, the skirt caught up here and
there with tiny bows.
☆ ☆ ☆
Journalist Claudia Jean Little chose a
snow-white, bell-skirted pure-silk frock
when she was married at All Saints
Cathedral,, Bendigo, to Geoffrey Austin
Wright. Soft folds of the material were
pleated to form an off-shoulder neckline,
and tiny sleeves finished the fitted bodice,
which was vandyked out to form the
slightly-trained skirt. The unusual head-
dress was one full-blown white rose, one
rosebud and a long green stem, set above
her brow to hold the misty shoulder-
length tulle snood. She carried long-
stemmed white roses. Claudia is the elder
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Claude Little,
of Bendigo; the ’groom is the elder son
of Detective-Inspector and Mrs. G. A.
Wright of McKinnon. Pamela Hogg
’maided in white chiffon patterned with
pink apple-blossom and green leaves. The
bodice swathed into an Empire-bow from
which the skirt fell into soft fullness.
She also carried long-stemmed white
roses. Stanley Powell, of Finley (N.S.W.),
was best man.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Treasury end of Collins Street has
recently been the scene of a minor revolu-
tion. Outside the Oriental Hotel colored
chairs and tables topped by gay little
canvas umbrellas are set on the edge of
the pavement, and here espresso coffee,
tea and sandwiches are served. It is the
first time the City Council and the Police
Department have given permission for
such an innovation, and the public has
welcomed the move, which brings a touch
of the Parisian boulevardes to Melbourne.
Mrs. Leon Ress, the French wife of the
hotel’s owner, managed the decorative
scheme.
Mrs. Ronald Nott, of Toorak, has
many charity interests, chief of which is
the Brotherhood of St. Laurence. She
will handle the publicity for the gala-
premiere of “I Accuse” at the Metro on
March 5 for the A.-A.-A.’s Women's
Group. Mrs. Nott and her husband have
just moved into their new home.
The “Latin Look” came to town when
Makower Mcßeath, of Flinders Lane,
presented frocks and ensembles made in
pure-silk, artificial-silk, and a glittering
array of cottons, all of which will be
seen next summer. In the cottons, the
Everglaze fabrics, manufactured by
Alcorso (who was also responsible for a
number of the pure silks), were prominent.
The silks are crease- and stain-resistant
and water-repellent.
Matita, of London, styled a dress and
jacket in blue-and-black tonings patterned
in a stained-glass-window design. Natural
pure-silk, patterned in a long-stemmed
red-poppy design, was used to fashion an
attractive party-frock for a teenager.
Among other designs were vintage-cars
on a white ground, horses and sampans.
Sending a social-worker annually to
South-east Asian countries is a feature of
the five-year plan adopted by the Aus-
tralian-Asian Association’s Women’s
Group. The first function to assist the
plan will be a gala-premiere of the film
“I Accuse,” followed by a champagne-
supper on March 5 at the Bourke Street
Metro. The Governor and Lady Brooks,
the Lieut.-Governor and Lady Herring,
University Chancellor Mr. Justice Dean
and Mrs. Dean, and the Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. F. W.
Thomas) will attend. Ticket-secretaries
are Mrs. H. I. Faber (LB 3303) and Mrs.
J. M. Shaw (UY 3757).
CANBERRA
Although the British Prime Minister,
Mr. Harold Macmillan, played-down the
warmth of his welcome by jokingly
suggesting that it was due to the heavy
rain which followed his arrival in Can-
berra with Lady Dorothy Macmillan
(rather than to our pleasure at greeting
the distinguished couple), there was no
doubt that the P.M. and his wife
endeared themselves to those who met
them.
Her Excellency Lady Slim gave a
luncheon-party at Government House in
honor of Lady Dorothy, to enable her to
meet representatives of women’s organisa-
tions and other prominent women, and
in spite of the continuous rain many of
the 70 guests wore glamorous hats.
Arrangements of gladioli in the reception-
room and bowls of roses on the lunch-
tables provided colorful decoration.
Lady Slim wore an attractive patterned-
silk frock in cinnamon and muted greens,
featuring a pleated skirt; Lady Dorothy
chose a smoke-grey shantung frock
patterned in bronze. Dame Pattie Menzies
(who wore a red-velvet curvette with her
black suit) was among the guests, and
others noted were Lady Fadden ; Senator
Dame Annabelle Rankin ; Senator Ivy
Wedgwood ; Mrs. Harold Holt (her straw-
berry linen-suit worn with a white
organdie sou’-wester); Mrs. R. G. Casey;
Lady Mcßride ; Lady Carrington ; Mrs.
Walther Hess; Mrs. M. S. Stevenson ;
Mrs. R. L., Hawke; Miss Heather
Cameron, and house-guest Mrs. Guy
Smith.
Another highlight in the round of
entertainment was a late-afternoon
reception at Canberra House, residence of
the U.K. High Commissioner. Receiving
with the guests-of-honor were Lord and
Lady Carrington—she elegant in a strik-
ing gown of scarlet silk embossed in
gold, the slim skirt featuring a draped
front panel and harem hemline. Lady
Dorothy’s frock was of charcoal brocade.
During the reception, which had a gay
and informal atmosphere, Mr. Macmillan
and Lady Dorothy mingled and chatted
with the guests, who included Mr. R. G.
Menzies with Dame Pattie, and many
members of the diplomatic corps and
their wives.
During their stay, Mr. Macmillan and
Lady Dorothy were house-guests of the
Governor-General and Lady Slim at
Government House.


would experience on discover-
ing a carouse in his chapel.
Nevertheless, the two weeks
on the Bread Loaf campus were
from a literary standpoint the
most valuable and the most
exhilarating I have ever spent
anywhere. For one thing, it was
good to have a look at some
internationally-known writers ;
and perhaps to reassess them
in terms of a personal reaction.
THERE was, for example,
Kay Boyle, very avant-
garde, very Paris - in -* the
’twenties, very obscure indeed;
surrounded always by a bevy of
young girls ; interesting, not as
I thought she’d be interesting,
but as representing the view-
point of, perhaps, the profes-
sionally expatriate writer. Her
lectures were “arty” in an old-
fashioned way; her intolerance
of the market-conscious writer,
of the down-to-earth, fill-the-
need, meet-the-deadline hack ;
her intolerance, in fact, of all
but a small section of the world-
public was an eye-opener.
Then there was Nancy Hale,
very bright, very blonde,
interested in everything and
everybody ; the type of woman
one would love to have for
neighbor. Her lectures were
direct, hard-hitting and in-
formative. She spoke clearly,
breaking away from her notes
to expand those ideas which
most interested her, and was at
her best in answering questions.
She had a lively sardonic sense
of humor, a distaste for pre-
tentiousness, and she sprang to
the parry in defence of her own
with the surety of a tigress in
a sheepfold.
Catherine Drinker Bowen
was of a similar admirable sort;
less brilliant, less flashing
perhaps, but equally painstak-
ing ; a researcher who can
claim that, throughout her
extensive historical works, she
has never put direct quotes into
a character’s mouth without
having written reference for the
words as spoken by that
character in his lifetime. She
was honored by the British
legal fraternity for her book
on Sir Edward Coke, a
masterly summation of juris-
prudence in its disturbed youth.
There or elsewhere she has
never attributed motives for
which there was no con-
temporary evidence, or ever
shaded a character to make him
appear larger than he was in
his life. She was a very human
woman, very human and very
sincere, a housewife who has
established herself in a con-
siderable literary eminence
without ever neglecting her
dishes or her babies.
There was Alex Rackowe,
short-story writer, who seemed
rather indignant that he was
not always surrounded by ques-
tioning would-be emulators.
He was the proponent of the
business approach: write for
money, get money, and ask for
more. He spoke dolorously of
the vanishing “slicks” ; the dis-
appearance of “C ollier’s”
grieved him excessively. It
could not have had the same
importance for the beginning
writer; the 70,000 authors in
the United States (not to
mention those who tackle the
U.S. market from beyond its
boundaries) could hardly have
been affected by the potential
loss of 300 sales annually. And
Rackowe did not take into
account the growing number of
new magazines entering the
“slick” field ; a number far m
excess, it seems to me, of the
few that have fallen by the
wayside.
But Rackowe was a pleasant
fellow in spite of his seeming
occupation with rewards; a
gregarious man, habitually
attired in a dark-blue blazer
with a red and pitch-forked
devil fierce upon its pocket, and
occasionally I enjoyed my after-
dinner drinks with him in the
privacy of his quarters.
Stewart Holbrook was
another down-to-earth writer,
but a considerable raconteur,
an ex-newspaperman whose
subjects came from an
American history he loved ; a
collector of odd facts ; a man
who, like H. Allen Smith, was
in love with the ratbag. Hol-
brook selected his from history,
or near-history, and preserved
them with love and attention ;
his Dreamers of the American
Dream, published since I met
him, looks like becoming a
classic. But he wrote of any-
thing that interested him, and
from' experience advocated a
deep obeisance for “The Boys
at Pleasantville,” as he referred
to the editors of the “Readers’
Digest.”
THE tyros must have learned
a lot from Mildred Walker,
in the realm of the novel;
from Bill Raney, an editor
from McGraw-Hill, largest
publishers of non-fiction in the
world ; from Eunice Blake, one
of the most successful editors
of juveniles ; from poets Ciardi,
McCord, Wilbur, Robert Frost
and Leonie Adams; from
William Hazlitt Upson and
A. B. Guthrie.
Mrs. Bernard de Voto, in her
role of talent-scout from
Knopf, was also in demand.
She betrayed an interest in Aus-
tralian writing—she would like
to discover another Arthur
Upfield.
And there were writers, too,
amongst the non - lecturers.
There was Alma Routsong,
whose A Gradual Joy is clearly
amongst the best-sellers, and
who was obviously engaged
with the double production of
another book and another baby.
There was Leonard Drohan,
whose Come with Me to
Macedonia —a jibe at American
bureaucracy—had achieved a
first-printing of 40,000, which
was excellent for a first
novel; and who otherwise
distinguished himself by wear-
ing a felt hat indoors and out,
pleading, of all things, antrum
trouble.
There was a gentle girl, a
refugee from Red China, who
wrote gentle Chinese stories
in the intervals of teaching
English at Vassar. There were
a lot of teachers, of course. A
good many professors of
literature, not writers, and
without any intention of
writing, attended the conference
with the idea of meeting
literature at the grass-roots.
They were, perhaps, the most
ardent note-takers of the lot;
and carried such lessons as the
conference afforded to a wide
range of young scholars.
The United States Navy had
a couple of representatives';
one lieutenant - commander
was sent as part of his duties,
for he writes some of the semi-
official books printed by a press
run by a bunch of retired
admirals to promote civilian
interest in the Navy. His new-
season car carried his medals
and insignia in a perspex insert
near the door-handle.
Of the two resident doctors,
one was a budding poet, in a
style that brought memories of
the “Angry Penguins” affair.
He attended a few lectures;
the trout in the nearby
mountain streams were too
insistent for him. Waiters were
all working their way through
the fees ; and a good many of
the resident staff seemed to
attend the lectures.
There were two negro girls,
one obsessed by the problems
of segregation, the other, a
beautiful creature, quite un-
concerned by them.
HN the evenings we gathered,
or some of us did, in one or
other of a group of isolated log-
cabins dotted here and there at
the edge of the forest; and
sang songs, ribald or senti-
mental, to a guitar, and toasted
marshmallows at log-fires, and
drank cartons of canned-beer.
And talked writing.
On the frosty mornings we
got up early, and startled the
deer feeding in the clearings, or
crossed the tracks of bear, or
got bogged-down by the beaver
dams.
On the warm afternoons we
swam in the creek, or took a
car down to one of the nearby
lakes, or just lay round the
wide expanses of lawn, or
explored the 33,000 acres of
forest which belonged to the
college. And all the time we
talked writing.
I think this was the main
value of the conference a
share in the tremendous
enthusiasm engendered by 200
people all concerned, above all
else, with the art of writing.
Such stimulus does not come
often. It sprang in this instance
from as varied a collection of
people as it is possible to get
together.
There was a dipsomaniac
with that exaggerated Southern
accent. There was a girl in her
thirties who, for the first time
in her life (and a life spent in
the United States), was free of
a chaperone, and was not
enjoying the experience. There
was a fat woman who
taunted her unmercifully.
There were quiet, oldsters who,
after a life spent in writing-
pursuits, had come to the con-
clusion they had much to
learn. There was a sprinkling
of brisk, efficient reporters;
and a couple of dumb ones, at
that.
There were thirty or forty,
perhaps more, budding writers
who had brought their manu-
scripts ; and at least some of
these had their work examined,
torn apart, praised and
criticised by a majority of those
attending the conference.
Others were satisfied, or had
to be satisfied, with the advice
given by staff members, who
read the works, made sugges-
tions, and sometimes were able
to give recommendations which
cquld ease the way to publica-
tion.
Besides all these, of course,
there were others who would
not get much to take home;
the perennial yearners, the con-
tributors to the social notes on
local weeklies, the members of
the village Poetry Circle. Most
of these were content to bask
in the proximity of the Big
Names. They did not much
hinder the work of the con-
ference.
And there were the sharp
boys and girls; the ones who


lay on the desk of the sergeant-
of-police of Gee Foy’s home-
town exposed to the dangers
of personal influence and a
report on a road-incident.
The evasiveness of Inter-
Departmental File Number
P.T. 51 troubled the sergeant.
Two cars were involved. A
piece of wood was flung from
the rear wheels of one through
the windscreen of the other.
Inter - Departmental File
Number P.T. 51 had shirked its
responsibilities. It made pro-
vision for many classifica-
tions, road - causes, driver’s
causes, accidents as a result of
road-surfaces, but made no pro-
vision for airborne wood. The
sergeant pecks aimlessly at a
vintage typewriter favoring one
digit.
He had already noticed the
request to investigate the back-
ground of Ernest Gee Foy and
report on his fitness to support
an immigrant wife. An hour
earlier he had seen opportunity
when Gee Foy stood across the
street talking to Stacey near
the furniture-shop window. The
challenge of the flying wood
held him to the typewriter.
He looked up now as a con-
stable rattled the wooden
veranda. There was no friendli-
ness in the sergeant’s greeting.
He flicked the request-sheet
across to the constable,
emphasising the vulnerable
barren and empty sections of
the printed form.
“Go and see Ernie Gee Foy
and get this form filled-in,” he
said.
He returned to the type-
jvriter.
The constable shrugged and
left. His immediate future lay
charted. The sergeant long
ago had seen further, as far as
points traffic-duty at Roma
Street, constantly under the
sun. When the sergeant saw
he had surrendered without
further effort the constable’s
future salvage or rejection had
left his own orbit.
Across the street the con-
stable walked without pretence
past the shuttered batwing
doors down a passageway and
into the hotel-bar. No shadow
of apprehension came from the
small, ragged circle of before-
hours drinkers. The barmaid
winked cleavage, slid glass on
formica, and turned away
without payment. A handyman
slopped disinfectant along the
floor and across the constable’s
poised toe without apology,
The constable looked down
at the dampened shoe, the
flicked drops of disinfectant
spotting his trouser-cuff. The
drinkers’ acceptance, the auto-
matic action of the barmaid,
the splashing touched a thin,
shattered shell of restraint.
He took off his cap and laid
it on the wet-glazed formica.
Ernest Gee Foy had set up
a little provision of immor-
tality in the christening of his
elder son. The sergeant knew
these things, the constable
did not.
“Isn’t that Ernest Gee Foy
across there?” he asked the
barmaid.
She wiped the bar-top
mechanically with a tired cloth
and flicked a stencilled eye-
brow.
“That’s right,” she said.
The constable nodded with
a mockery of trained wisdom.
“I’ve got to see him,” he
said. He finished his beer and
walked around the bar.
“Ernest Gee Foy?” he says
to Gee Foy’s eldest son. . .
r T''HE sons came together to
see their father with the
unbending minds of those who
have agreed to judge im-
partially.
Gee Foy listened, his mind
shrunken with the disappoint-
ment of discovery.
“We don’t mind you getting
married again,” the eldest son
insisted, “if you don’t pick on
someone so young.”
He faced the others.
“Isn’t that so?” he asked.
His brothers nodded.
“I don’t mind you marrying
someone young enough to be
my sister,” he explained; “but
this girl’s young enough to be
my daughter.”
“Must be young,” his father
muttered. “No good if not
young.”
He explained slowly and
patiently the needs of his bones,
futile offerings from too great
a distance.
“Oh, that damn’ stuff’s a lot
of bull,” he was told.
He tried again, but resolve
has gone from him, he was
faint, a faint shadow against
the light of his sons.
They probed into his defeat
and discovered the order for
the walnut bed.
COME days later he saw the
bed loaded on to a lorry
parked in front of Stacey’s. He
didn’t ask who had bought it.
The lorry pulled out from
the kerb and rolled away, its
exhaust echoing from shop-
window channels. And a little
smudge of oil-smoke whirled
in the air in front of Gee Foy.
He looked down the street,
his eyes following the shrink-
ing lorry. Even when it was
gone he stood looking down
the street for a long time.
already occupied editorial
niches in the national maga-
zines, and believed they had not
much to learn.
rr WONDERED, and I still
11 wonder, whether something
of the sort could not be
arranged for the Australian
field.
There are, in N.S.W.,
colleges at Armidale and Wagga
which, in their unoccupied
periods, would make excellent
sites for such a conference.
And here writers could pool
their thoughts ; it’s obvious that
the historian can learn much
from the poet; the critic a
great deal from the editor and
the publisher’s representative,
The struggling writer could
learn here to avoid the years
and years of the repetitive
mistakes he does not realise he
makes. And the annual con-
gregation would help to meet
the desperate need of the
isolated writer for the company
of his kind; for the conversa-
tion of people who can under-
stand his ideals and his agonies,
and for a rostrum to express
his ideas ; for an audience of
writers is incapable of remain-
ing dumb,
Probably, for a sum of some-
thing like £6O, the Australian
writer could share in some such
upsurge of creative effort as
that I felt for myself at Bread
Loaf. This expenditure would
cover two weeks of living-
expenses, and in any event he
would spend at least this
amount on a holiday. If he
wished, he could bring his wife,
to convince her that his literary
problems are not all of his own
making. And if such a fee did
not provide a sufficiency to
cover the expenses of the con-
ference, surely the Common-
wealth Literary Fund would be
better advised to invest its
money in such an undertaking
than in some of the ventures it
has financed.
The Australian publisher
should leap to its support:
the conferences are fertile
breeding-grounds of fresh
material. Newspapers could
send such cadets as show
promise, to increase their
literary standing. And there
should be no lack of sound
staff.
The Australian universities,
t oo, fi ave t h e j r own part to
play . in the production of
Australian literary identities it
jj as b een a sma p G ne and insig-
nificant h S£em
../. 3 . - , .
Pf tent to im / art th f ele ™ ents
°/ Vl §° r sound construc-
tlon in w h lc h th e literary field
here is lacking. And it could
well be that the university
professors themselves would
benefit from an annual meeting
with the writers,
I throw the suggestion in the
ring for what it is worth. I
would like to see it come to
pass, and so, I believe, would
most writers.
RAFFERTY RULES
Our hands like furry animals that crouch
and furtively unlock the leeching dark,
proceed by subtle undertones of touch
and have no need of other tongue to speak.
This is their rightness and their argument
nothing dissuades. Fingers become decisions
made on the spot without the board’s agreement
or sub-committee’s orderly revisions.
Gaily the hand is lover, while the head
sits at the shiny table and presides,
puzzled sometimes that the firm is in the red;
perhaps he should learn to enjoy himself instead.
N.Z.
Louis Johnson.


the period of John Grant’s exile as few
Australians do.
I feel, however, that M.H.E. is
unduly severe. There are admittedly
some inaccuracies, yet not of major
consequence. The Sirius, for instance,
was not described as having “carried
the first convicts,” but as having
arrived with her first load of convicts.”
“Fleet” would have been a better word
that “load,” but the latter is surely not
incorrect.
Again, to say that use is made of “a
picture of convicts of the 1830’s to
illustrate a narrative of 1803” is hardly
justified seeing that the Australian part
of Grant’s narrative did not begin till
1804 and that it extended to 1811. The
illustration may well have been drawn
in the 1830’s, but even if it were, was
there really enough difference between
jail-gangs of those two decades to
warrant any comment?
Again, there may be no historic
trace of Bridget Doulan or her husband,
but that is no proof that they did not
exist. Bridget is as real in Grant’s
journal as are Lewin, Bishop, Campbell
and the many others with whom he
became acquainted.
Similarly, because Ellis Bent pictured
Atkins as a tall, fine-looking aristocrat,
the fact that Grant described him
rather differently does not necessarily
mean that it is Grant who was wrong.
He was certainly given ample oppor-
tunity to study him. Likewise, while
Grant’s description of Foveaux was
based on hearsay it was at least current
hearsay. As for Piper, he painted Jiim
as he found him, and he was under his
“care” for long enough.
Phillip’s retirement “in 1800” is an
error that was obviously undetected in
the proofreading because the reign of
King’s predecessor, Hunter, who had
given Grant a letter of introduction, is
referred to earlier. The rank of
“Admiral” (his final rank was Vice-
Admiral) was certainly bestowed on
Bligh prematurely by Hill-Reid, but it
is hardly fair to say that he was
painted as a “model of lilywhite
virtue” or that “the book’s whole
account of the rebellion against Bligh
would be dismissed by Bligh’s closest
friend as garbled half-truth.” Indeed,
the “whole account” that M.H.E.
criticises is nothing but a three-para-
graph reference to it.
In justice to Hill-Reid, John Grant,
as M.H.E. rightly suspects, though a
keen observer and painstaking pen-
man, in the early stages of his exile, at
least, tended to let his vision become
clouded by emotion. Further, the
material that he left unwittingly for
Hill-Reid to discover nearly 150 years
later consisted of some score of lengthy
letters written in cramped and often
abbreviated hand, a disintegrating
journal written largely in 'lBth-cefitury
and not always accurate French
(further disintegration was arrested by
my having it restored at the Public
Records Office), and some notes
written in faded pencil in a form of
shorthand which, though decipherable,
was almost illegible. There were a few
formal documents, and there was
another journal which unfortunately
turned to powder when Hill-Reid
first picked it up. All of these letters
and documents, the main journal and a
translation of it rendered by my then
secretary, Joan O’Hagan, a French
honors graduate, were recently
presented to the Commonwealth, and
microfilm copies have been given to
the main State libraries where they can
be freely consulted.
M.H.E. would have liked the book
to give more of Grant’s story in his
own words and less editorial treatment.
So, I believe, would have Hill-Reid.
In his first version he quoted Grant’s
letters and sections of his journal at
considerable length—and could not find
a publisher. Valuable though they well
may prove to an Australian historian,
Grant’s writings contain much that is
pedestrian—too pedestrian at any rate
for a publisher who is not disinterested
in the sales-value of what he puts on
the market.
That Hill-Reid referred at length to
the “Historical Records of Australia,”
and that he used relevant material in
the Public Records Office and elsewhere
is not denied. But his checking was not
hurried, as M.H.E. suggests. Hill-Reid
worked on his project for more than
two years.
When he discovered Grant’s papers
he was naturally intrigued by them.
Like most Englishmen, his knowledge
of Australia and its history was not
great, though having commanded an
Australian unit in the First World War,
Hill-Reid’s was wider than most. But
he wanted to know more.
He referred his discovery to me when
I was librarian of the Australian
Reference Library, and it did not take
more than a night’s sorting and examin-
ing to conclude that his find was of
major importance, for it contained the
first-hand record of an observant,
educated and privileged convict during
seven of the earliest and most vital
years of our history.
Curious as it may seem, they do not
teach Australian history in English
schools, or, indeed, very much about
Australia at all. Even in such a
popular authority as “Pears’ Encyclo-
paedia” Captain Cook is cited as having
sailed round New Zealand, but no
mention is made of his association with
Australia. What Hill-Reid set out
to do when he decided to write Grant’s
biography was to do something towards
filling a blank in the education of his
countrymen. Such explanatory back-
ground as he collected” and gave to it
was certainly not included with the
object of telling Australian historians
something they already knew.
N. S. Lynravn.
Culture at Length
Dr. George Nadel’s Australia’s
Colonial Culture, carrying the sub-
heading “Ideas, Men and Institutions
in Mid-Nineteenth Century Eastern
Australia” (Cheshire), is introduced by
that interminable writer of introduc-
tions Mr. Hartley Grattan, who has
for years never been too busy to issue
certificates of merit to anybody who
cares to write about Australia. The
book is, he says, a “fascinating study”
of “how men have brought a culture
from an old land to a new one and
there, by an intricate process of estab-
lishing continuities accepting discon-
tinuities, and engendering original
contributions, have evolved a palpably
original synthesis.”
Dr. Nadel’s slices of political history
have indeed the air of discoveries, but
they resolve themselves, when viewed
knowledgeably, as somewhat inaccurate
summaries of facts which everybody
knows and even more inaccurate
summaries of viewpoints and attitudes
which nobody knows because they have
no basis of reality.
He writes, for instance, that
Governor Macquarie was “sternly
opposed to free settlers, whom he con-
sidered intruders”; but Macquarie
actually was opposed only to the send-
ing-out of poor settlers of the type that
hastened to sell their land grants, “take
to lawless pursuits, keeping low public
houses, or becoming itinerant
merchants, hawkers and peddlars.” He
was all in favor of “respectable settlers
with capital who could support them-
selves and set an example of industry
to other colonists.”
Similarly in his chapters of the
growth of political societies, Dr. Nadel
is frequently off the beam on such
matters as the real impact of the Bigge
reports and on the nature of the
constitutional achievements and aspira-
tions of W. C. Wentworth.
On the whole, the book is learned,
meticulous and various, but it makes
mountains out of molehills and it has
an air as if the writer were sometimes
self-hypnotised and straining his weary
eyes to make sure of discerning some-
thing which is only an illusion. Thus
he notes that at a formative period of
the naughty ’nineties “social classes
were culturally apart. ‘The
Bulletin’ school attempted to close this
gap, to give literature that social basis
which ensures its authenticity and,
with it, its survival.”
Yet if ever there was a natural
emanation of an age, one which was a
true offspring of the times rather than
a means to a cultural or social end it


Uhe Philadelphian
by Richard Powell
Two weeks after publication ‘THE PHILADELPHIAN” rocketed to a
“runaway best-seller” in the U.S.A.
Obtainable from all Booksellers and Department Stores.
Retail price in Australia 20/-.
Hodder & Stoughton, Ltd.
was “The Bulletin” school of the
’nineties.
The only gap it consciously or
unconsciously desired to close for the
most part was that between itself and
a foaming pint. It was itself the virile-
tasting exudation of a bubbling and
adventurous national development
reflecting whatever impacts its members
were subjected to, but with no common
consciously maintained objective.
II Pappagallo.
Gibbings on Thomes
An idle and a pleasant writer is
Robert Gibbings; something like
Norman Douglas, only less so. If life
is real and life is earnest there always
seems little excuse for reading him at
all. He sits himself down by streams
and meditates on nothing in particular
and a good deal of the water, not always
to his advantage, gets into his ink.
Still, the love-life of earthworms is,
after all, both real and, as Gibbings
reveals in one of the inconsequential
chapters of Till I End My Song (Dent),
surprisingly earnest. And it is nice, and
even possibly useful, to learn how to
breed maggots for robins.
“Till I End My Song” is about how
he settled into a thatched cottage on a
backwater of the Thames in Berkshire.
There are some English antiquities in
it of more interest to the inhabitants of
Long Wittenham than to anybody at
this long distance; but also there is an
account of the family of Shrimptons
who sailed from Long Wittenham to
establish the Lyttelton “Times” in New
Zealand—one of their descendants
must surely have been the Shrimpton
who was editor for a New Zealand
publishing firm.
Then there are notes about a wild
duckling which was reared by a girl
named Dawn —“She took it home and
fed it on bread and milk and worms,
keeping it always, both day and night,
next her skin for warmth.” And on the
way both birds and animals will some-
times transfer their affections from their
own kind to human beings, so much so
that a bittern at the Amsterdam zoo
used to drive its wife away from their
nest and invite the keeper to sit on it
instead; while a peacock in the Vienna
zoo fell in love with the giant tortoises
—Gibbings would have liked the
peacock at Springwood, N. S. Wales,
which, when the domestic fowls with
which it had been in love for years
were put into the pot, transferred all its
affection to a small, bewildered kitten
in whose honor it incessantly whirred
its wing-feathers and spread, like a net
of stars, the splendor of its mighty tail.
There is also, as in all the Gibbings
books, some notable fishing, especially
the day when they caught, for trans-
ference to the main river, all the
“coarse” fish in his backwater, pike
and chubb up to ten-pounds in weight, •
stunning them with electricity from a
generator on a lorry ... a method of
poaching well worth keeping in mind,
if you happen to have a lorry and a
generator. And also, though with
hardly the charm of his Irish books, for
Irish conversation is unique, there are
plenty of those excellent dialogues with
the local yokels which Gibbings knows
so well how to trim-down to the
essentials.
The book is illustrated, of course,
with the author’s wood-engravings.
A Cold War
David Howarth’s The Sledge Patrol
(Collins) is one of the curiosities of
war. Early in World War II the King
of Denmark told the Danes to lay down
their arms, a good plan for a country
overrun with Germans; but the Danish
Governor in Greenland, having nothing
to fight, decided to fight on.
Greenland did have a bearing on the
war because of its weather-reports, but
early in the piece it was considered that
such information, like the weather itself,
was equally available to both sides, and
there was not even a serious attempt to
prevent weather-bureau reinforcements
leaving Denmark for Scoresby Sound
and stations to the north of it on the
icy, unpopulated eastern coast of
Greenland.
Then the Germans had another think,
and sent a small expedition to Sabine
Island to establish a weather-station
there. The Danish officials were
hurriedly made into soldiers, so that
they might not be shot as civilians. The
Germans captured part of a small
Danish patrol; then advanced to
destroy the station at Eskimoness, and
so down the coast towards Scoresby
Sound.
Finally the Americans woke up and
sent bombers over, but not before the
Germans had packed and departed,
leaving their introspective captain, a
•former Arctic hunter, a fairly willing
prisoner of the Danes.
The excursions and alarums of the
Danes, armed with only rifles against
German machine-guns, their many
treks, sometimes with only the clothes
they stood up in, over hundreds of
miles of ice and snow, make a small-
scale action like a boys’ thriller come
to life, and maybe even the irony of
the one sad mortality, a former hunter,
being buried in the hut he had built
several years before for the storage of
his meat is in keeping; it is an
adventure-book no less exciting because
it is authenticated to the utmost of the
author’s ability, and illustrated, not with
imaginative pictures but with several
plates of photographs.
Reviewed Briefly
Fallen Star: James Blish (Faber).
Science-fiction sugared with glamorous
girls and hard-boiled boys to give it
“popular appeal.” A party of scientists
go to the North Pole, ostensibly to
monitor the track of the first earth-
satellite, but really to look for evidence
of a lost planet, preserved in the ice
for millions of years. Too crazy,
* * * *
The Manasco Road: Victor Canning
(Hodder and Stoughton). Suspense,
adventurft and romance served up with
a touch of sophistication. Majorca is
the setting, where the cargo of a
wrecked ship is to be salvaged, and
the conflict of two implacable forces
supply the story. Written with ease
and competence.
* * * *
Surgeon’s Journey: J. Johnston
Abraham (Heinemann). From a
small Ulster town to medical-student
life in Dublin, then to London and
Harley Street; with intervals for writing
much medical journalism and two
successful books, “The Surgeon’s Log”
and “The Night Nurse”; also for inter-
ludes in Egypt and Serbia during
World War I, and travel as a ship’s
surgeon. An exceptionally readable
autobiography, well written and
crammed with fascinating material.


The 100-octane air force
W--
Sv
~ airmen of the Allied air forces flew to final victory ..
No. 13 of a series—The story of BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED .
In 1937, while the world still kept its fingers crossed and
piously hoped that a second world war would never
come, the British Government made a decision.
It was not a particularly dramatic decision but it was
clear-cut and it was destined to have a triumphant result.
The Royal Air Force was to fight on 100-octane aviation
spirit.
V/ho, though, was to make the 100-octane? The world’s
petroleum industry had not needed to produce such fuel
for the aircraft of the thirties.
The answer to Britain's future war-in-the-air conundrum
was provided by scientists of The British Petroleum
Company Ltd, parent company of BP Australia Limited,
who discovered a method (known as the Alkylation
Process) of producing, from petroleum distillates not
previously thought to be suitable for the purpose, the
vast quantities of 100-octane fuel required for a sustained
operational effort.
Thus, from Europe and North Africa to Burma and the
Pacific, airmen of the Allied air forces flew to final
victory on 100-octane fuel.
Main supply source for this victory-winning fuel was the
Middle East oilfields of BP which were located in 1908
by an oil search expedition formed and financed by
William Knox D”Arcy, the young English migrant who
won his first fortune from the gold reefs of Queensland’s
Mount Morgan.
Thus, it can truly be said that.. •
IS/C6Ol
(sj)
began here!
BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED
formerly THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
