

The Bulletin
"T he Wedding”—page 34
Wednesday, August 27, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered tn Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"Do you mind if we fillet the fish first?"


BOOK-HUNTER, Box 2«71. G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find It for you—Action,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
"THE PEA PICKERS"
Angus and Robertson have reprinted
Eve Langley’s The Pea Pickers, and I
must admit that when I was asked to
review it again, sixteen years after I
first saluted it in “The Bulletin,” I felt
some trepidation.
Certainly, the novel was never my
“discovery.” Frank Dalby Davison,
who was one of the three judges who
awarded it the S. H. Prior Memorial
Prize, reported on it in words still
glowing memorably on the dustjacket:
It has the dew on it. It contributes
something fresh to Australian litera-
ture. It is rare. I think it will be
cherished.
Norman Lindsay joined me in praising
it on the Red Page; some other Aus-
tralian critics (while others attacked it)
recognised its qualities; and when it
was republished in America the New
York “Times” said: “The peculiar
charm of this book is the Puckish
laugh and the rich, earthy figures in
which it exults.”
Still, as I learn with renewed alarm
from the dustjacket, I did go consider-
ably to town on it myself; and sixteen
years is a long time; and in that time
it has dropped out of notice in the
literary magazines and in books of
criticism; and, worse, the only mention
of it I have seen in a recent book of
criticism was an attack —one of those
deadly side-blows that slay a whole
book in a sentence.
It would, of course, be embarrassing
to have been wrong about “The Pea
Pickers”; but I don’t know that l was
so very much alarmed at that prospect.
Every reviewer must be wrong from
time to time; and, anyhow, some of
Australia’s most prominent reviewers
are wrong pretty well all the time. It
is a consoling thought.
Solicitude for the book itself was
chiefly what troubled me. Good or
bad, first-rate or second-rate, perman-
ent or ephemeral, it aroused in me when
I first read it an unalterable affection.
There are phrases, images, paragraphs
in it which I have quoted to myself for
years: exactitudes of description and
metaphor which, like poetry, catch a
thought, an aspect of the Australian
scene, so perfectly that you feel that it
has been done for all time.
The old boots, for instance. A
phrase about an old boot lying aban-
doned in the bush is not much, maybe,
on which to found a writer’s reputation;
but it shows the observant eye; and
personally I can never see such an old
boot, as you do mysteriously see them
everywhere in the bush, without remem-
bering: “They are the flowers of the
Australian forest” —I had forgotten,
though I shouldn’t have, the almost
equally memorable description of Jim’s
socks that comes before them: —
The fourth tree got Jim’s socks,
and it sank back into its hollow as
we nailed, them to it. The very nails
bounced and bent their backs, but
we drove them home. Not able to
waste much time on those socks, we
just wrote out a brief ticket :
Humming birds: small ; rare; Avismella
petersenia; Gippsland, Victoria.
We ran off out of range, and
collected all the old boots around
the hut, finding about twenty. They
are the flowers of the Australian
forest. In some places you won’t
find a blade of grass, but you’ll
always pick up an old boot, as hard
as stone, its little round tin-metal-
edged eyes gleaming malignantly at
their bad treatment.
Then, coming a good deal higher up
the poetic scale—not that its tiniest
notes, if the real thing, are to be
despised—there were the black cocka-
toos: “flying aborigines” Eve Langley
called them: and once again I can
never see a black cockatoo, painted
red for its corroborees, without recalling
that perfect image:—
Enormous charcoal logs lay on
every side with little pools of clear
rainwater caught in the hollows made
by broken branches, and drifts of
charcoal lay about them. Underfoot,
the soil was clay, covered with a small
red pebble of a mournful dimness,
and the sky above was gloomy.
Through the lonely grey delicate
feathers of the wattle, mobs of
crimson-crested cockatoos flung their
black bodies, like flying aborigines,
and as they went they cried harshly
and savagely like wire being strained
over posts and leather being thrashed
against trees.
How admirable, incidentally, is the
choice of that dangerous word “mobs”
instead of “flocks” or some other
equivalent. It is not what we were
taught was “good English”; but it is
good Australian; and it is good because
it is completely natural, unforced, the
right word, and a strong word, in the
right place.
I am reminded by rereading “The
Pea Pickers” of other examples of the
intensity and minuteness of Eve Lang-
ley’s observation, other beautiful
poetic images: how —in contrast, say,
to the generalised landscape of the
Brent of Bin Bin novels—she has
noticed even the flowers of the moss
(as I think they are) in “those little
whiskers with knobs sticking on top
of each whisker”; and her tree full of
yellow and white flowers that “flew
off, raising their sulphur crests and
screaming raucously, a mob of white
cockatoos.” I did not need to be
reminded of the railway-train foot-
warmers, “like discarded hot-water
bottles, a trifle indecent, from some-
one else’s bed.”
But these—a memorable poetic
image, a flash of acute or humorous
observation here and there —are not
quite the point.
Haw has the whole book got along
in the sixteen years while it has lain,
if not wholly forgotten (Charles Shaw
at “The Bulletin” always used to speak
of it with a pleasing warmth, and Hal
Porter, when he was over from Bairns-
dale a year or so ago, told me it had
become something of a cult in Gipps-
land) —while it has lain, if not wholly
forgotten, largely neglected and out of
print, mentioned only to be attacked?
Is it still as good as it was?
To some extent I can sympathise
with—or at least understand —the
reviewers who could not respond to it
when it first appeared, and the critic
who lately slew it.
It is. in the first place, by no means
a highbrow novel. It is curious,
imaginative, original and very likely its
metaphysical speculations go as far as
anybody else’s. But it is not the sort
of thing that, in our provincialism, we
like to submit to English critics to
prove we have all grown up. Essentially
it is simple and humorous; a comedy
of the earth in the older Australian
tradition. It makes jokes about old
boots and over-ripe socks.
Then, even for those who feel no
need to apologise for the similar sim-
plicity of Lawson, Furphy and Steele
Rudd, it is obviously a latterday novel.
Its time is about twenty-five years ago.
Its outback is of small vegetable-farms,
not the heroic wilderness. The swaggies
are two girls; their companions are
mostly Italians. If I remember rightly,
there is only one bullocky. We may
be surprised to find how much of the
old tradition lingers on in the Afghan
hawkers and the like; but the great
days of the outback legend had passed
by long before Eve Langley’s “Steve ’
and “Blue” wandered into Gippsland.
And it is a novel which, even when
you have got over these preliminary
obstacles, you must still accept on its
own terms —or not at all.
It is feminine, and it is youthful. It
is no use expecting Steve, Eve Langley's
narrator, to be some pale, bearded
intellectual talking about Existential-
ism; she is a young girl talking about
love. And, if this subject remains of
some interest even in the most advanced
novels, it is no use expecting her to
discuss it with full maturity: she is
(Continued on page 58)


180 branches cater
for the
Man on the Land
ELDER'S
BRANCHES AND
SUBBRANCHES
IN N.S.W.
AR.MIDAEE
BROKEN HILt
COEEA RENEBRI
COXDOBOEIN
COON A .'I BEE
COOTAMUNDRA
C’ KOOK WELL
DENILIQCIN
dibbo
J’ORBES
GIEGAXDRA
BEEN INNES
CCNXEDAH
OI'VRA
HAY
INVEREEE
.JERIEOERIE
MERRIWA
MOREE
NARRABRI
naßrandera
NARROMINE
nyxgan
QUIRIXDI
tamworth
TE.MORA
TRANGIE
YVAECHA
WENTWORTH
WEST WYAEONG
WIEEOWTREE
YOUNG
maM!£Ry
CO. UMiTE
■HU
■• •
have always endeavoured to put service as
their first aim and to carry this service to the
Man on the Land they have built 180 branches throughout
Australia. Not only do they give personalised service through
the branches but their buildings have enhanced country towns
from Carnarvon to Charleville.
180 branches give nation-wide Service to the
Man on the Land, covering Wool, Merchandise,
Shipping, Travel, Chartering, Insurance, Skin and Hides, Land
and Livestock, Rural Banking.
ELDER, SMITH &
LIMITED
.
Adelaide, Perth, Albany, Melbourne, Geelong, Sydney,' Newcastle, Brisbane, London
with which are amalgamated
COMMONWEALTH WOOL & PRODUCE CO. LIMITED .... SYDNEY
NENCO LIMITED NEWCASTLE
MOREHEADS LIMITED BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 27, 1958
Vol. 79 — No. 4098
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Direptors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
TUMULT IN THE NORTH
npHE matter, of Dutch New Guinea is
coming to a head, one way or the
other, with Moscow hoping for a foot-
hold in New Guinea from which to
harass the Commonwealth.
It would be foolish to imagine that
Australia, is forgotten in Moscow. To
the Kremlin it is a small Power, but
one that has been unswerving in its
support of the British-American unity,
often the odd-man-out in the Com-
monwealth in backing the United
Kingdom in a crisis. It is also the one
country within the British Common-
wealth whose existing Government
made a definite attempt to declare the
Communist party illegal, without suc-
ceeding—a matter which must give the
Communist leaders hope for it.
This hope will be all the greater be-
cause the bill to oust Communism was
defeated by the efforts of a strong
Opposition in the Federal House,
whose leader had been president of the
United Nations, and which had .been
in office for many years and might be
again.
The fact that a Labor section had
shown itself in line in its thinking’ with
Kremlin views, that while in power it
had introduced a “Bill of Rights” deriv-
ing from Stalin’s Constitution of the
U.S.S.R. in its main delusive details,
might seem highly promising for the
extension of the .world-revolution to
this corner of the earth.
All this apart from the knowledge
that the Australian unions are Red-
anted with Communists and that the
Communist control of sources of
A.L.P. finance is so strong that the
A.L.P. Executives can only give token
lip-service to its own rulings that the
penalty for United Front association
with Communists is expulsion from
the party. The rule is never used, save
in the manner in which charges of
“espionage” and “diversionism” are
used in Moscow itself—to get rid of
somebody who is not palatable to his
fellow-members and who has given an
opening.
Furthermore, the Soviet Union has
two incentives to dislike Australia: its
importance as a testing-base for guided
weapons, and the damage which it did
to the whole Russian world-espionage
and subversion, system by the Petrov
Commission, which resulted in the
unveiling of its plans and methods on
a wider scale than was- revealed to the
public through the reports of the com-
missioners.
A NY belief that the Russians are not
doing their utmost to capitalise
their advantage in Australia, where
their agents hold the Federal czardoms
of the railway, sea-transport and
engineering unions, and some others,
would be naive. Any belief that they
are not secretly pushing and bargain-
ing to embroil Indonesia with Australia
and to secure a foothold on the only
remaining island immediately north of
Australia wholly under white rule is
against logic.
It is necessary that this should be
understood. There is a natural temp-
tation in some quarters to imagine that
because sections of the sensational daily
press have made the question their
baby, arguing sometimes on very con-
fused or corrupt premises, there is
nothing really dangergus in the situa-
tion and that it is merely another
sensation whooped-up to produce
poster-headings.
The West New Guinea'situation is
the one matter on which Soekarno
would be likely to secure complete
unity among the understanding part of
the Indonesian population. It is.the
one issue which would completely buy
him support from Moscow, short of
handing-over the Government to the
Communist party, if it had not been so
handed-over. The Soekarno Govern-
ment already has a close resemblance
to that of Czechoslovakia before the
Communist coup.
It is kept in office by military force.
It holds its conclaves in a capital ringed
with Army units. Its cities are full of
vigilant official gunmen who harass
tourists and outside visitors with
arrogance. Indeed, to turn it into a
Malay Czechoslovakia all that is
needed, it would seem, is that Soekarno
should fall out of a window and the
Communist ingredient of the trade-
unions suddenly assume control of
factories under arms.
The situation has been complicated
within the past week ty two new
reports. One is that there may be a
tendency on the part of the Netherlands
Government to surrender .West New
Guinea rather than fight for it.
This is quite understandable, and
from the Dutch position quite logical.
While it held Indonesia the unde-
veloped Irian, potentially rich in oil,
was an asset and part of a large interest
in the area. Now, with Dutch interests
destroyed, shipping and air-routes
harassed to the limit, Netherlanders,
national and racial, in constant danger
of their lives from a local Govern-
ment which professes to subscribe to
the doctrine of the four freedoms. West
New Guinea is little , more than a
liability.
Development of the oil resources
would not be easy under continual
threat and harassment, when there are
other areas more profitable for exploi-
tation.
pOR the rest, all that West New
Guinea represents is a- terrain of
jwild mountain country, inhabited by
backward peoples. These are being led
towards civilisation at the cost of
hard - pressed Netherlands taxpayers
who are so'put to it to support their
own people at home that they are
forced to keep the stream of immigra-
tion flowing urgently towards other
countries. However, the Dutch deny
the surrender rumor.
The second element which' has
intruded into the Indonesian situation
is the sudden decision of the United
States to begin a competition by the
supply of arms to the Indonesian
Government.
Little good can be expected from
adding to its power to threaten the
friends of the United States and make
the area even more controversial and
step-up Russian efforts to draw it inside
the Iron Curtain.
With these new developments, Aus-
tralia’s interest in the matter appears
to have become urgent. The thought
of Indonesian control of West New
Guinea is alarming.
Once it was lodged there it would
not be long before it would begin
using the arguments with which it has
supported its claims to extend its
dominion over Papua and the New
Guinea Trust Territory.
ly/TOREOYER, the forerunner of the
formulation of this extension would
undoubtedly.be an intensive campaign
among natives of our territories pushed
across the border by Communist
organisations with Indonesian Gov-
ernment connivance and aimed to
weaken Australian defence and
authority over the portions of the
trust —and other territory—which are
under the Commonwealth.
If West New Guinea goes out of
Dutch hands there is only one solution
which would be palatable to Australia
and in keeping with its security—either
that it should be handed over by the
Dutch to us (which seems impossible)
or that it should be added as a trust
territory under Australian rule to the
United Nations, to be added to the rest
of the island under Australian rule.
A new Power in New Guinea,
especially one so much under Com-
munist influence, should not be
tolerated at any cost.


"MAO!"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Elections, November 22
Mr. Menzies having announced that the
Federal poll will take place on November
22, the term of Parliament has only
seven weeks to run, and so hushed
is the atmosphere that there was not
even a yell of triumph from the Leader
of the Oppsition when it was discovered
that the 76-year-old lady-Senator, Mrs.
Agnes Robertson, of Western Australia,
in defiance of the Standing Orders, the
Whip and any obligation to attend the
sittings which she is paid primarily to
attend, had hoofed-off to Japan to a
women’s conference, leaving the Senate
deadlocked and the Government at the
mercy of its foes.
Deadlock in the Senate, of course,
means defeat, since the President has no
casting-vote. It is almost impossible to
believe that today the Senate is the same
Chamber in which the wailing for the
possible fate of Senator Arnold during
the proceedings on the Banking Bill has
scarcely died away.
The House will rise on October 14,
writs will be issued ,on October 22, and
nominations will close on October 31.
The campaign will be limited to three
weeks and it may be nearly as funereal
as proceedings, are at present on the
Molonglo.
Dr. Evatt says the issue will be the
“barren Budget,” with some excursions
into the subject of hire-purchase interest.
On that subject he has been unable to
raise even a mild interest among his own
front-bench, much less among the general
public. There seem to be no other issues
that Dr. Evatt can make his own. But
the Government has a very potent one
in the Communist unity-tickets.
These are poison to Labor because of
the splintering effect of them on Labor's
own structure and financial sources, and
on sections of its normal religious
support, not to mention the New Aus-
tralians.
The Government can put-up a damning
case on the matter, well documented with
the evidence of Comrade Healy and
others at the Hursey hearing, which
demonstrated that the political finance
of some great unions is a sort of co-
operative festival, bodies like the Water-
side Workers being under joint A.L.P.-
Communist control at the highest levei
and disposing of compulsory political
levies by paying equally large sums to
the A.L.P. funds and the funds of. the
Communists. This despite the pretence
that association with Communists, politi-
cally or publicly, renders Labor men
liable to expulsion from the movement.
This matter will naturally, and
properly, be a major issue in the light
of the threats to the established rights
of political freedom possessed by Aus-
tralians and 'the fact that to finance the
Communist party is to finance the proved
agency of an enemy country which is
costing the world billions on defence and
continued disturbance and uncertainty.
At the same time there will no doubt
be constructive features in Menzies’s
policy which have not yet seen the light.
It is hoped that there will be references
to specific measures connected with' the
recommendations of the Constitutional
Committee which has been hearing
evidence for a long time and which is
understood to have made recommenda-
tions about new States, the Senate and
means of rationalising the meaning of
Section 92.
At any rate, the election will mark
an era, see disappearance of many old
faces inside and outside the Ministry,
and usher in one of the most important
Parliaments which has sat in Canberra
for many a year.
There «eems little doubt about the
Government winning it, unless it becomes
complacent in* its campaigning. It is
mainly a question of majority. The pity
is that whether it wins or loses seats the
Opposition will come back in chaos and
not capable of performing the duties of
a strong Opposition which both Parlia-
ment and the Government need to foster
their own health and strength. The dying
Parliament has become flabby for want
of a real Opposition.
Nasser in Charge
The very enthusiasm of the Arab Federa-
tion for their own proposal to
settle Middle East difficulties is the best
reason for suspicion about it.
It is difficult to believe that anybody
concerned among the greater Powers
accepts it except with tongue in cheek.
It sounds like an Arab device to get rid
of its awkward visitors in Lebanon and
Jordan, so that it can proceed once more
with subversion in those countries effec-
tively but more discreetly than hitherto,
under the command of Nasser.
Like Khrushchev, who is a whole-
hearted party to the plan (which will
allow him to insinuate that the United
States and United Kingdom have been
humiliated and forced to withdraw),
Nasser would not be safe except through
a continual stirring-up of the Arab world.
His one excuse for failure in his plans
for the rehabilitation of Egypt rests on
the dangers and difficulties of the Middle
East.
Khrushchev and all other Communist
leaders are in much the same box. So
long as they can keep their peoples con-
scripted on the plea of the danger of
imminent invasion from the warmongers
Eisenhower, Macmillan and Menzies they
can get away with anything and enforce
the lowest standards of living. '
But so soon as they have to abandon
the concept of the world-revolution for
peace and carry on in an admittedly
peaceful economy free from alleged spies,
saboteurs and threats from without, they
would find the home atmosphere very
different.
Nobody apparently allowed more than
a grin to escape when the Arabs brought-
down their scheme in the U.N. Assembly
after its formulation by the Foreign
Ministers of Nasser’s United- Arab
Republic, Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq, Saudi
Arabia, Morocco and Libya, who met in
a basement presumably so that their own
ribald laughter might be hidden. Nobody
was fold what kind of trade each made,
and it remains to be seen how sincere
each was.
The text of the resolution which the
U.N., was asked to pass, and did pass
unanimously, stated that the General
Assembly welcomes the renewed assur-
ances given by the, Arab States to pre-
serve the provisions of Article 8 of the
pact of the League that each member
shall respect the systems of government
established in the other member-States
and regard them as the exclusive con-
cerns of those States.
It called for all member-States to act
strictly in accord with the principles of
mutual respect for territorial integrity
and sovereignty, of non-aggression, of
strict non-interference in each other's
internal affairs, and of equal and mutual
benefit, and to ensure that their conduct
by word and deed conformed to these
principles.
Finally, it invited the Secretary-General
to make arrangements to uphold the
principles of the Charter of U.N. by
securing the withdrawal of foreign troops
from Lebanon and Jordan and to consult
as appropriate with Arab countries regard-
ing an Arab development-institution
designed to further economic growth in
these countries.
The reaction of the Cairo official press
was crystallised in the sentence: l, We
have won.”
Promptly everybody, including the
Russians, professed to be delighted and
full of trust for the Arab leaders and in
their scheme.
Only a few cynics dared to doubt, in
terms stated by the “New York Times,”
which remarked that the situation seemed
to be “the best offering—if it would
work.'’ The editor added that “the
record of the inventors of the plan for
living-up. to pledges offered little opti-
mism that their scheme would really stop
them from continuing the policies that
led to the crisis.” He hoped that the
U.N. would be equal to the task of safe-
guarding the Middle Eastern peace and
security by its “supreme presence” as
provided by the new arrangement.
It seems likely that the genesis of the
plan was President Eisenhower's some-
what naive speech last week which
showed Nasser and his associates a way
to get something for nothing. They will
follow the plan till they have used it to
suck all they can out of the West and
then ditch it with cries of accusation. The
ready and smiling acquiescence of the
Russians, against all expectations, sug-
gests that they are well in the joke. Per-
haps they invented the idea to cause a
diversion while the Red Chinese began
to deal with Formosa.
Travellers in the West
The cry of “Geraldton, Dongara,
Morawa, Camamah, Coorow and
Moora” in a brochure from the Com-
monwealth Literary Fund is not, as it
may seem, some aboriginal incantation,
but a list of the places in Westralia to
be visited by J. K. Ewers.
Narrogin, Katanning, Kojonup, Albany,
Gnowangerup, Mt. Barker, Manjimup


Boyup Brook, Bunbury and Harvey are
where Gavin Casey is going with Alan
Marshall; Northam, Merredin, Kalgoor-
lie and Bruce Rock will see Marshall and
Ewers'.
The occasion is the third of the annual
tours sponsored by the Fund, in co-
operation with Adult Education Boards,
to take Australian literature to the people
by means of lectures by well-known
writers. A different State is visited each
year.
The idea, chiefly, is simply to tell as
many people as possible what Australian
books are worth reading, and the experi-
ment has already proved highly successful
both in Tasmania and Queensland. The
Westralian tour began on August 18 and
will continue for about six weeks.
The Cocktail-party
[From “Collins Street”]
In the belief, that this wonderful new
h.-p. world of ours might also have found
Higher Politics I gratefully accepted the
invitation of Leonard Warner to a
cocktail-party at the new Melbourne
hotel, the Graham, to meet all the can-
didates contesting the forthcoming City
Council elections.
It seemed to me that this big gesture
by Mr. Warner might open the door on
a new era of genteel politics in which
Mr. Menzies and Dr. Ev.att could meet
over a few sherries with their followers
and all agree, aiter amiable conversa-
tions, that though they did not have the
same ideas about bloody revolution, they
all were fine fellows and worth their
weight in Parliamentary pensions. It
could mean the end of those dispiriting
nights on suburban street-cprners and in
cold, dreary country halls.
It was genteel, all right. The lift
deposited me on the third floor almost
facing the Pompadour Room, and I
could see at a glance nine middle-aged
men grouped at a cold distance apart
from each other, and three younger, more
animated, fellows I instantly picked as
pressmen —together.
Mr. Warner, who is an unofficial leader
of the Independent cause in the City
Council elections and has brought life
and interest into the contests by standing
for two wards and threatening to oppose
Civic (non-Labor) candidates in all the
others, but finally withdrawing to stand
for one ward only, greeted me pleasantly,
and I passed into the cnamber.
It was not quite as silent as the grave,
since there were occasional whispers. A
decorated table in the centre held chicken,
smoked salmon, caviar, oysters, elaborate
savories and a lobster centrepiece so intri-
cately bedecked I would not have dared
to touch it even if I had been very
hungry. An immaculate waiter presided
over a bar that offered everything, as
far as 1 could see in covert glances,
except common beer.
The man Mr. Warner passed me on
to turned out to be Tony Luxton, the
sitting member for Hoddle, Mr. Warner’s
ultimate choice of a ward to contest.
Luxton, a Civic grouper and a member
of one of Melbourne’s best-known
families, was musing, almost to himself,
“Why he picked me I don’t know,” and
dolefully nursing a glass of cracked ice.
I was somewhat comforted to find some-
one even more apprehensive than myself.
Yet all turned out well. The waiter
brought us second drinks and then
expertly helped us to plates of the deli-
cacies. Mr. Warner, raising his voice
a note or two above the whispering,
said it was sporting of Gr. Luxton to
have come, and he asked him to toss a
coin to decide who should get his —
Warner’s —votes in Bourke ward —the
challenger, S. D. Farrar, or Cr. Leslie Fox
(who had also arrived), both friends of
his. Luxton gracefully declined and
suggested he should not vote, and Warner
agreed that was a pleasant solution.
He said he had arranged the party
so that all the candidates should know
one another and be sceptical when their
too-zealous supporters brought vicious
tittle-tattle to them alleged to have been
whispered by their opponents. He also
welcomed us all again and voiced his
regret that most of the retiring councillors
had accepted his invitation but had not
turned-up.
It all passed off very nicely, without
any patent insincerities, the whispering
grew more spirited, although there was
an occasional “Sh-sh” and “I hope he
• didn’t hear that.” Cr. Fox, warming
to the lobster and some strange drink
he had, .announced it was all so wonder-
ful that he would make it his dinner and
told me it was generally agreed at the
Town Hall among the sitting councillors
that they would have little opposition at
elections if they opened the pearly gates
of the Town Hall and gave aspirants thfee
months in office with them to find out
for themselves that there was only hard
work and often abuse.
(I dare say Cr. Fox is right, and things
haven’t changed much at the Town Hall
since my days there when Tony Luxton’s
father, the late Sir Harold, was Lord
Mayor, and that the sweets of office are
still a companionable pre-dinner drink in
the cupboard.)
It could not truthfully be claimed the
party was either a success or a failure,
since the two councillors continued to
sip their drinks together and the
Independents clustered near Mr. Warner.
Whether this was the beginning of a
sweeping change in political campaigning
I frankly don’t know, but, as I say, it
was a hupdred-up on those draughty halls
and those windy corners.
Murder and Imprisonment
Ben ’ Doto, Liberal member for Bur-
wood in the New South Wales Assembly,
intends to ask the Government to have
the papers of J. C. Smith, who was
sentenced to life-imprisonment two
months ago for the murder of a Sydney
schoolgirl, marked “never to be re-
leased.” Addressing the Sydney Feminist
Club, Doig said that Smith was 29 and
that even without remissions he could
expect to be released in 20 years, with
the risk that he would commit a similar
crime. Dr. McGeorge, Prisons Depart-
Tnent consulting psychiatrist, told the
same meeting that if ever there was a
case for capital punishment' it was that
of Smith. That is an opinion with which
most Sydney people will agree.
Busybodying and "Rights"
About the most harebrained scheme
which has come out of Liberal planning
is the new craze for passing Bills of
Rights ; new, that is, save for Dr. Evatt’s
remarkable war-time “fourteen-points”
legislation.
Two State Liberal-Country parties
seem to be bent on introducing these
measures ; the first of them the Govern-
ment of Mr. Nicklin in Queensland,
which claims for its inspiration the
Charter of the United Nations.
Nothing could be more farcical than
the spectacle of the 80 nations of U.N.
carrying-out these principles—some of
them encouraging respect for human
rights by dragging the corpses of their
enemies round the streets, about half of
them ruled by gun and cord, and many
of the larger ones so intolerant and the
very negation of freedom thatjt is even
a capital offence to disagree with their
Governments on any issue whatever, civil
or religious, or to take a tourist trip to
another country.
Australia happens to be a Federated
Commonwealth, and it is impossible for
any State Government to legislate separ-
ately on freedom. It can only deal with
part of freedom and rights, because many
of the essential rights come within the
dominion of the Commonwealth. There
are going on for 40 matters and groups
of matters about which the Common-
wealth Parliament has power to legislate,
all of them exercisable for the “peace,
order and good government of the Com-
monwealth,” and many of them powers
exclusive to the Federal Pariiament or
Government.
No doubt under the new bills there
will be a Department of Rights in each
State which embraces the new fashion,
suitably staffed with Minister, secretaries,
inspectors of personal liberty and several
other new kinds of licensed snooper.
And their operations should provide the
High Court counsel with almost as sound
a living as Section 92, when the applica-
tion of the Commonwealth Constitution
to the matter has been properly probed.
For instance, what application will
Section 117 have to liberty-loving
holiday-makers from N. S. Wales who
become temporarily embroiled during
long-leave spent in the fastnesses of
Victoria:
A subject of the Queen, resident in any
State, shall hot be subject in any other
Slate to any disability or discrimination
which would not be equally applicable to
him if he were a subject of the Queen
resident in such other State.
Whilst there is room for legislation
in N.S.W. to guard against the resump-
tion of private property by the Crown
without payment of a just price, Nicklin
and Morton might well leave busybody-
ing round civil liberty to the common
law, to tradition, and to public opinion,
which provides ths best safeguard of all.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
An offspring of the Spanish Bour-
bons, the grandson of ex-King
Alfonzo, is to visit Queensland’s Gold
Coast. He may find a life-partner
there among Australia’s royalty : banana-
queens, pineapple - queens, surf - queens'
and wool-princesses are often to be seen,
incognito as Eve (was it not the caprice
of Marie Antoinette' to play the
shepherdess?) in this, newest of Paradises.
—“E.H.M.”
>I« z*
“Kenyas”: A van which does the
rounds in our district has emblazoned
on its sides “Nappy Service,” with under-
neath (in smaller letters) the slogan
“Rock-a-dry-baby.”
*** ♦;+ +j+
“Spooks”; Western Australia has made
history by appointing the first woman
reporter to Hansard, in the State Par-
liament : Mrs. Jessie Isobel Edwards,
aged 24, of Claremont. When she was
two years old her father left the “West
Australian” to become a Hansard re-
porter He taught her shorthand at 12.
Mrs. Edwards’s first session as a Hansard
reporter will coincide with her father’s
first Parliamentary session as chief of
Hansard staff.
■£+ *X*
“Croid”: Was invited to visit a friend’s
place for “a spot of corpse-reviving”—
his way of referring to television, which
shows films so old that many of the stars
have been dead for years.
►*« «j«
“Moonstruck”: Sir Edmund Gosse,
the literary critic of Victorian times,
would have been intrigued by the launch-
ing of the American moon-rocket. He
told of a poetic maidservant who stated
in a poem a profound astronomical prob-
lem. Will it be solved soon?
TO THE MAN IN THE MOON
O moon, lovely moon with thy beautiful face,
Careering through the boundaries of space,
Whenever I see thee. I think in my mind
Shall 1 ever, oh, ever, behold thy behind?
♦l* * *
“Doric”: Shortly after it was banned,
I obtained a copy of Forever Amber.
Having read it, and not been unduly
shocked, I passed it around to friends
. . . for years now it has been handed
“ Actually , Were only tenants —the owner lives over in the garage ."
from one to the other, but the ban has
been lifted, and at last it has come home
to rest.
❖. ❖ ❖
“Airs-crew ”: It seems logical that the
navigators on the pioneering Pacific and
Atlantic flights never flew again. Captain
Harry Lyon set the Southern Cross on
track for Kingsford Smith 30 years ago,
and Arthur Whitten Brown was Alcock’s
aide from Newfoundland to Ireland in
1919. But Lyon went back to sea, and
Brown buried himself in e-ngineering-
studies. These men had proved the possi-
bility of long-distance ocean flights—
why should they further risk their lives?
Their pilots, who both died trying to
advance interest in flying, were men of
vision: Lyon and Brown were men of
imagination.
♦> *l* *l*
“Allmy-i”: An old bomb parked in
a Brisbane main street displayed a placard
on the rear of the hood: “Don't include
me in your hit parade!”" but nobody
seemed to have noticed.
■z* * *
“Bagot”: Anyone noticed how the
pompous endeavor is nowadays used by
Canberra sprUikers and radio-announcers
in preference to the down-t Q-earth and
expressive try? It’s a cert that sooner
or later I'll be told by a racing-com-
mentator that the dead-un I backed was
disqualified for not endeavoring.
*!♦ ❖ ❖
“J.T.": The Army is going to have
a Week in Sydney in October, matching
with deliberation the luck of the Navy,
which, by an extraordinary run of
coincidences, has for years had its Week
in Melbourne for the Cup carnival.
THE BUS DEFENSIVE
“Buses would be of the utmost importance
for defence purposes in case of atomic attack,
said N.S.W. Premier Mr. Cahill,"
Now Mr. Cahill has for us
A weapon of defence:' the Bus;
But will it really save us from
Attack by an atomic bomb?
Well, if too late for our defence
It may convey our spirits hence.
Though lovers hand-in-hand surmise
Bus-journeys end in Paradise,
And husbands home- or work-bound may
Think either way the Other way,
No buses of which I’ve heard tell
Visit the suburbs, Heaven and Hell.
But seriously, the bus would be
Of use against an infantry
Attempting to consolidate r
After we disintegrate :
Foreigners, all unaware
Of the exact, the proper, fare !
Foolish foemen, on they'd crowd,
Stand upstairs though not allowed ;
They might even try to ride
On the platform, not inside!
Conductresses would then get tough :
“Here we stay till you get off
And yet, suppose they had the tact
To act as passengers should act,
How would they know if 3-6-4
Meant Bondi, Eaiiwood or North Shore?
What hope, when we ourselves are
mussed-up
And pre-atomically bussed-up?
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


No aeroplane has ever landed at
Katoomba, on the Blue Moun-
tains of N.S.W., the nearest landing-
ground being a strip at Blackheath;
yet Katoomba has a splendid memorial
park to Kingsford Smith with a model
of his Southern Cross over his memorial
dome, another splendid park in memory
of Bert Hinkler, and for some time a
Catalina flying-boat body (drawn there
by road) floated on the small artificial
Jake which was named Catalina Lake and
Park. And for years Katoomba has
had a thriving branch of the Australian
Air League.—“W.P.T.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Tame”: No less than half the 203
motor-vehicles operated by the N.Z
police were involved in accidents in the
last financial year at a cost of £7OOO to
£lO,OOO, says a circular issued by the
Controller-General of Police.
♦2* *>
“Emma”: Every San Franciscan takes
a run out to Sausalito by the Bay, its
history linked with the Portuguese, for its
unusual eating-places, unusual people —
quite a large art-colony resides here —■
antique-shops and places like the Village
Fair, selling goods from every country
in the world. The Fair’s vast ground-
floor js covered with display-tables ; at
the main counter prices are checked and
your parcel is wrapped. In an individual
salon upstairs I was attracted by a beauti-
fully soft woollen sweater in a rose
shade. American wool is certainly not
the soft cuddly type ... 1 looked at
the label: “Made from 100 per cent,
pure Australian Merino Wool in Japan.”
I wondered why we couldn’t have com-
pleted the job ourselves and done our
own exporting to the States. Didn’t see
anything from our neck of the woods.
+£«•
“Emel”: That circular hospital of the
future (B. 6/8/’5B) has for some years
been a well-established fact at Beulah
(Vic.), which is proud to have the only
hospital of this up-to-date shape in Aus-
tralia. Now its board of management
is up against an equally unique prob-
lem : how best, since it has become
necessary, to extend a circular building?
+%* +X+ *X*
“Pat”: The advertisement for the film-
version of Agatha Christie’s “Witness
For The Prosecution”—“Don’t reveal the
ending to your friends” —must be raking
in good profits all round. Overheard two
smart young things discussing it on the
train. “I’ve seen it twice and still can’t
work it out,” complained one. “I reckon
it’s up to them to explain properly to
the audience who did it.” “That’s right,”
agreed the other vigorously. “I saw it,
couldn’t make-out what really happened,
so now I’ve had to buy the book.”
♦> ♦> *
“Sackville”: An elderly migrant inter-
viewed on the air gave his erstwhile
occupation as “personal service.” Asked
what that meant, he explained: “A
butler.” Did he intend to follow that
vocation here? A most decided “No!”
“Why not?” The answer surprised this
listener as much as it did the interviewer:
“Because I never liked it.” The wife of
the reluctant Jeeves chipped-in: “When
he was young there w'as no choice ; it
was start as a pageboy or under-footman
in one of the big houses, or work in the
fields.” Struck me as the most pathetic
life-story I’d heard—a man working 50
years in a job he’d never liked.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sevenelms”: I smoke a meerschaum
pipe (B. 13/8/’5B). It weighs 3oz.
empty, 31oz. loaded, and with Victorian
whimsicality the bowl-design is a skull
cupped in a hand. To assist coloring,
the bowl has a chamois-leather cami-
sole, and the bulk of its acquired com-
plexion derived from Lucy Hinton at
lid. the 2oz. tin. The mouthpiece is
amber, a bit unyielding to the pre-
molars, and the date on the case August
4, 1888 —Dad’s 21st birthday.
❖ ❖ *
“Mid Blue”: Les Blake (B. 13/8/’5B)
is out in saying George Musgrove played
opposite Nellie Stewart in the film-version
of “Sweet Nell of Old Drury.” It was
Augustus Neville, well known after-
wards as C. E. King’s leading man in
Brisbane, where his handsome presence
inspired the gallery-girls to start a
K.O.G. (Keen On Gus) club. The duel
in “The Midnight Wedding,” one of
Spencer’s early films, was the first filmed
anywhere; it was fought outside a
Sydney church and was as thrilling
and realistic as any that one can
recall. The Australian film industry
thrived when every suburb had its
threepenny open-air picture-shows,
but couldn't compete with the feature-
films, which, during World War X,
brought the stars of the legitimate
stage permanently into the business in
the U.S. Nor could the small Australian
exhibitor, who tended to support his own,
pick and choose his own programmes
any longer. Plush chairs were in, and
he passed-out with his wooden seats,
taking our film industry, which had had
such a promising beginning, with him.
❖ ❖ *
In the next war we will
carry, instead of a gas-mask, a bottle
of pills, one of which will allow a person
to survive a double-dose of radiation.
Warning of a nuclear attack will be
necessary to allow us to take the pill
15 minutes beforehand, when, says Dr.
Doherty of the U.S., it will reduce the
biological results of a dose of radiation
“by about half.” Yes, but would two
pills give one’s other half a chance?
❖ ❖ •*
“Bo”: As a daily commuter per electric
train between my outer-Sydney suburb
and the city I thought I had met every
possible sort of peripatetic pest. I am
more than acquainted with the bloke
standing in the aisle whose eye catches
yours as you happen to look up, and
thereafter each time you do he’ll be
staring, unwinking, at you ; the goat
who, to judge by the effort to swing his
case aloft and balance it precariously on
the narrow rack above your head, is
travelling for a lead-ingot firm ; the ape
who squats beside you and, 10 seconds
after you open your book, starts to mag
about everything from racing to the
Middle East; the acquaintance who only
occasionally lowers his voice to a roar
as he tells you about his strife’s recent
confinement; the drunk who lolls all
over you and keeps you on edge (he
never seems to get off a train) fearing


that any second he’ll get in a long shot
all over you; the woman with the
38-48-58 figure who stands poftdering
what two seats to fill and selects the one
next to you ; the idiot behind who
pushes your hat over your eyes every
time he lifts his broadsheet to read the
bottom of a page ; the bod. beside you
who gives you a look full of fishhooks
because you turn the page of your paper
before he’s had time to finish ; the one
who will hook the crook of his brolly
over the seat w'here you want to put
your neck. But the bird that grabbed
the window-seat beside me at Wynyard
was an entirely new species. He imme-
diately doffed his cady, and for the next
“Kiss my son goodnight and let him come to bed—it s getting late.”
18 stations studied the inside of the
crown with the most intense concentra-
tion, as if it held some cryptic message.
Dammit, before he mercifully got out I
was beginning to see hieroglyphics in the
blasted thing!
“Myall”: Notice in the laundry of a
hotel in North Queensland: “While
ironing, please do not make any un-
necessary noise.” Evidently widgies have
been ironing some of their loud clothes.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Postie”:,“Mugga Way” (B. 30/8/’5B),
in his comment on the suggestion by
Britain’s P.M.G. that letterboxes should
be installed at the front-gate, is appa-
rently not aware that if was an English
postal authority, Mr. (later Sir) Harry
Brown, who introduced the idea into
Australia. He was brought out from
the U.K. by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment in 1920 to reorganise the Aus-
tralian postal services, and this was one
of his first moves.
❖ ❖ ❖
“G. 8.”: Lahm’s woman (B. 6/ 8/ ’5B)
who couldn’t hear a sundial ticking
reminds me that the first sundials brought
from Italy to England wouldn’t keep
correct time. Further chronological
study showed that the angles on the
Italian sundials were quite incorrect for
use in England, where degrees of latitude
went up to between 50 and 60 degrees.
♦Jt ♦s» <£♦
“John”: Conversely, “Croid” (B.
13/8/’5B), what really stimulates the
debtor's hackles is a dunning letter
endorsed:
If not delivered within seven days, return
to (say) A. B. Soanso, Bad Debt Collector,
Flat Rock, North Shore.
It produces results all right, whether
it be a threat of a civil action, or of
personal violence, or a settlement of a
debt; and is seldom ignored, of which
“Croid” reasonably complains. A North
Shore debt-collector, now in Heaven,
used the racket quite successfully in the
early decade of the century.
“Miss M”: The custom of returning
the ring when breaking-off an engagement
is not always observed. A girl I know
has three magnificent specimens, plus a
jewel-encrusted eternity-ring—and wears
the whole lot all at once, on her engage-
ment finger. I often wonder what her
current swains, of whom there is no
lack, think of this glittering display.
❖ *>
“Tiki”: A middle-aged couple of my
acquaintance had retired to bed reason-
ably early when the wife declared that
she felt lucky. Her husband suggested
they get up and have a fly at the baccarat-
school around the corner. One hour
later they were back in bed £BO richer
—her hunch had paid-off.
A, >♦« A
V V v
“Bicky”: The New Australian laborer
working with an electricity-line gang
opened his newspaper-wrapped lunch,
produced a quarter-loaf of stale bread
and some cooked cauliflower, broke the
loaf in two, slapped some cold cauli. on
the halves, and proceeded to devour it
with an eagerness and relish rarely dis-
played by diners at the Hotel Australia
(Melbourne).
A QUEER ALLIANCE
“Widow, m.a., interest bowls, debating
society, would meet widower to 50, same
interests, view mat.” —Personal ad.
She could have been wishing
For one v.’ho mixed fishing
With studying the planets;
Some fellow combining
As hobbies, divining
And habits of gannets ;
One who, in addition
To golf, nursed ambition
To do table-rapping.
But no. It is sad to
Think her ideal had to
Like bowling and yapping.
Some women prefer to
(In these ads.) refer to
Such things as finances;
If he owns a big Humber;
If he has kids, what number?
Before taking chances;
If by nature he’s serious
Or gay or mysterious,
Suave or downright of manner —
All she asks is, he carry
(This cove she would marry)
The bowls-and-talk banner.
Not for them TV-viewing
At night. They’d be chewing
The'rag over Kitty ;
Or totting-up votes that
Could turf-out the goats that
Make up some committee.
But one point we should mention,
Re verbal contention
She loves —here the fact is :
They won’t need a society
For debating variety
With all their home-practice!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


INDUSTRY AND THE RAILWAYS No. 7
l " |
1M
m
LTS
JKg:
938883
■ •
*•- S ' jf r*.
(3*
r\
i a
ilifliil
—X. ’
m
838
$3
tk*.
c '*2>fc»*
r**\
SSL
*- J \ ;.71IPIPP
>4* :
sC
•' (f f v
, V
SV# J* siJ
w
-
western darovers go •• ."
Great mobs of cattle converging on widely scattered rail towns have changed
the pattern of the stock routes no longer "down the Cooper" but to
railhead, on the first leg of their journey to the markets of the world.
Throughout the State, wherever the railway network reaches, numerous meat
works have sprung up cornerstones on which the ever-expanding chilled
beef export industry has been built.
Working in close association with the Tancred Bros. and other visionary
pioneers of this great industry Railway engineers designed and constructed
the refrigerator vans that made its establishment possible.
To these vans many of them unique top-bunker units with a 32-ton capacity
is entrusted the preservation of highly perishable freights on incredibly long
hauls to the shipping ports.
For twenty-four hours in every day, the wealth of the State the
bounty of its pastures, the minerals of its earth, the fruits of its
orchards is constantly passing over the durable tracks of the New
South Wales Government Railways . . . the broad highways to a
beckoning future . . . the highways of destiny . . .
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
OF*
3$
<6
9^
&
O
CO
fo
.v;


POLITICAL POINTS
Federal election-day has been fixed
for November 22. Menzies will deliver
the joint policy-speech of the Liberal-
Country-party coalition in Canterbury
(Vic.) Memorial Hall on October 28 ;
the Doc. will probably fire his first shots
a week earlier. Parliament will be dis-
solved on October 14.
• •
As was expected, Menzies has taken
over Treasury for the remainder of this
Parliament, leaving the appointment of
a permanent successor to S’Artie until
the Cabinet reshuffle after the election.
• o
Although the Opposition applauded
when the Prime Minister announced the
election-date, with most of them it was
a case of whistling in the dark. Seldom
has an election come at a less opportune
time for the Federal A.L.P. In 1955,
although the party’s chance of gaining
a majority was not much brighter than
this time, there was the satisfaction of
knowing that the Keon-Bourke group,
who had been a thorn in the side of the
party in the last year of the Parliament,
would almost certainly lose their seats.
The assumption was that their defeat
would pave the way for repairing the
breach in the party, with a view to
regaining office at this election.
Events have not followed that plan.
The Right-wing Labor men lost their
seats, replaced in most cases by men of
lesser calibre, but instead of fading away
the D.L.P. has, as shown by voting at
the Victorian election, gained strength. It
seems certain to increase its numbers in
the Senate, and could possibly scrape
home in one of the Victorian Reps, seats
narrowly lost in 1956.
In addition to this gloomy prospect
there is the likelihood that the D.L.P.’s
entry into the field in N.S.W. will lose
Labor further seats to the Libs.
• •
Labor's dilemma is to secure unity
within the A.L.P. ranks and not with the
Communists —until after the elections.
There doesn’t seem much hope of solving
it, even for the duration of the campaign.
e •
The announcement of November 22' as
the date of the Federal election seems
to put the end to any likelihood of a
rushed State poll in N. S. Wales. Cahill
has indicated that he may arrange a short
recess to enable State members to take
part in the Federal campaign. Some of
his own followers would probably feel
happier if they could keep out of it.
Whether the D.L.P. will run candi-
dates at the N.S.W. election has still to
be decided—or, at any rate, still to be
announced. But the attitude of fence-
sitters among State Labor members will
be carefully watched when they appear
on Federal platforms.
• •
Davis Hughes, leader of the N.S.W.
Country party, strongly attacked the
Renshaw plan for forced amalgamations
of shires and municipalities. He said
that Renshaw had presided at more
deaths of local-governments than any
other Minister, and had acted as both
judge and executioner. Warning that
this could become a major issue at the
next election, he moved that the House
should express regret that the Govern-
ment did not propose to postpone local-
government amalgamations until an inde-
pendent inquiry was established.
Hughes was obviously referring to the
shires of the Mitchell region, where the
Minister recently appointed a depart-
mental officer as a one-man commission
to investigate objections to the plan pre-
pared by another officer of the depart-
ment.
* •
Pat Morton presented a strong case
when he moved a motion of no-
confidence in the Cahill Government in
the course of the Address-in-Reply
debate. He wanted to know:
Why -N.S.W., with its huge natural
resources, was being outpaced in the race
for development?
Why was its unemployment-rate the
highest?
Why was its housing-shortage the worst
and its housing-costs the highest?
Why were its transport freight-rates an
Australian record?
Why were so many new settlers and new
industries rejecting N.S.W.?
Why were 80 per cent, of working-days
lost in Australia through industrial disputes
occurring in N.S.W.?
Morton said the main reasons for the
Cahill Government’s failure were its
blind adherence to Socialist techniques
and its lack of practical businessmen in
the ranks of its Cabinet Ministers. The
Government had adopted a policy which
must inevitably lead to the destruction
of the arbitration system. It had by-
passed arbitration on such vital issues
as three weeks’ annual-leave, long-service
leave for casual employees and equal
pay. Earlier, by restoring quarterly
adjustments in defiance of the arbitra-
tion court it had placed a deterrent on
new development.
This no-confidence motion will, of
course, go the way of most such motions,
but the questions it poses will take a
lot of answering in the State election
campaign.
Bolte’s promise of a bill to regulate
hire-purchase in Victoria has cleared the
dust so much that the shares of h.-p.
companies domiciled in Victoria have
risen, indicating an acceptance by inves-
tors who have hitherto looked on the
business with reserve. Bolte, who has
been a stout defender of h.-p. because
he says it makes life easier for both
suburbanites and farmers, is out to catch
the snide h.-p. operator whose hidden
charges sometimes are as much as 50 per
cent. Both the prestige and business of
the reputable companies must benefit
from the bill.
« a
Liberal Parliamentarians are expected
to agree to a suggestion by the Victorian
Cabinet that a royal commission should
be appointed to report on an off-the-
course tote. Backbench opponents of the
s.-p. tote will have nothing to lose, since
they may air their objections before the
commission.
The Victorian Cabinet not only favors
the commission; it favors the off-the-
course tote, too, after long-time investi-
gations inter-State and in New Zealand.
So do the V.R.C. and other race-clubs:
it means money for them that is now
going down the drain. Race-clubs are
getting by with a small surplus, and State
Cabinet is getting by with a big deficit.
• •
Cahill's equal-pay plan was mentioned
in the Governor’s speech at the opening
of the N.S.W. Parliament —but only just.
No one yet knows just what form the
legislation is to take ; the general im-
pression is that the bill will give women
general wage-equality with men, but that
some will be more equal than others.
Not until the bill is introduced will any
particular class of women workers know
whether they are to be full-equals, half-
equals or part-equals.
The Governor’s speech mentioned
“equal pay for men and women doing
work of equal value,” and Cahill refuses
to elaborate on this. At the June con-
ference the party rejected the principle
of equal pay for equal work and in-
structed the Government to legislate for
an equal basic-wage.
Cahill isn’t likely to do that. It would
cost the Government and private industry
a pretty sum, and would place N.S.W.
at an even greater disadvantage vis-a-vis
the other States in the competition for
new industries. Opposition - leader
Morton was on sound ground in saying
that the question of equal pay should
be left to the courts to decide.
* •
After a three-hour discussion follow-
ing a nine-day trial the jury in the case
in which former Tasmanian Treasurer
Turnbull was charged with soliciting a
bribe reported that it was unable to reach
a verdict. Crisp, J., dismissed the jury
and ordered a new trial.
• •
Because of the large initial expense,
only the Commonwealth seems likely to


build any atomic power-stations within
the next few years. In Darwin, where
some millions are to be spent on a coal-
powered installation, questions are being
asked why it wasn’t selected for an
atomic job, in view of its distance from
coal supplies. Britain is now offering
complete plants for sale.
m s
Bolte and Playford are bidding for a
new £2O-million group of petrochemical
industries, including a synthetic-rubber
factory ; Vacuum Oil has been discussing
alternate sites in Victoria and S.A. for
six months. The right oil seems to be
that Bolte is currently a head in front
of Playford, with Cahill not in the race.
“The first consideration is that the indus-
try comes to Australia ; but I will not
enter into a dogfight,” says Bolte loftily.
Still, according to reports, there is a great
deal of stalking late at night in Canberra,
which is also involved.
• •
In a generous gesture of goodwill to
Victoria’s Mental Hygiene Authority and
director, Dr. Dax, the Employers’
Federation, with some Government
agencies, have agreed to find suitable
work for mental patients ; payments will
go partly to the patients and partly
towards the construction of well-fitted
workshops and occupational-therapy in
mental homes. According to Dr. Dax,
there is accommodation currently for
6500 patients, another 1500 beds soon will
be available, but room for 9000 will soon
be needed because, fortunately*. people
no longer are scared of getting advice
and hospital-treatment early.
Some of the truth about the bewilder-
ing marketing of eggs in south-east Aus-
tralia came out in a T.P. interview with
Bernard Talbot, president of the Vic-
torian Associated Poultry Farmers, in
Melbourne.
About a quarter of the eggs alleged to
travel inter-State do travel; the other
three-quarters are given fake invoices to
exempt them from payment of the Egg
Board levies of 4d. export-losses and s^d.-
a-dozen grading and handling charge ;
Federal control is essential, but the
Federal Government had even refused
a £500,000 subsidy to cover export-losses
which would have permitted eggs to be
sold 6d. a dozen cheaper ; and the
British Government’s decision to sub-
sidise home egg-production was another
blow. Still, no subsidy or marketing
arrangement has ever made eggs sell so
well in Victoria as the simple recent
brainwave of a substantial reduction in
price.
• •
Victoria and S.A. have the lowest rate
of unemployment of all the States, with
1.4 per cent, each, according to the Vic-
torian Premier. Bolte claims the rapid
development of Victoria produced this
and is worth the high cost —not a side-
swipe at Cahill, but a cuff for critics,
including those within the party, at recent
rises in the charges for public utilities in
Victoria.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Crayfish, once the
popular companions of happy drunks but
nowadays an expensive luxury, are to be
“conserved” under a co-operative pro-
gramme between the Federal, Victorian
and Tasmanian. Governments. The
industry contributes si-million dollars to
our export-income, and that’s why the
Fisheries Division of C.5.1.R.0. has
recommended protective measures. Pro-
ceedings last year against some Tas-
manian fishermen for breaches of State
conservation regulations failed on
Constitutional grounds.
• •
Johannes Gerhardus Strijdom, who
died at the weekend at 65, was Prime
Minister of South Africa for only four
turbulent years, though he had been a
Minister since 1948 and an M.P. since
1929. His predecessor, Dr. Malan, had
reigned for six years. Neither term com-
pares with the public life of Hertzog or
Smuts.
A Boer farmer-lawyer who turned poli-
tician, Strijdom was a vehement advocate
of racial segregation and a republican ; in
both these matters he was authoritarian
and ruthless, but forthright and com-
pletely open in his methods.
• o
If the 10 Arab nations can agree
unanimously on a plan there must be
a catch in it somewhere for non-Arabs.
• •
N.S.W. Housing Minister Landa has a
simple explanation why the Eastern
Suburbs railway has never been built—■
the Federal Government’s failure to find
the money. That is also Abe’s answer
when chided with the poor performance of
his Housing Commission. Even at Bondi
they must be beginning to suspect there’s
a bit more to it than that.
• •
The P.M. told a deputation represent-
ing industry and commerce which sought
the appointment of an independent com-
mittee to examine the functions and
efficiency of the Commonwealth Public
Service that, in the long-run, the deter-
mination of a Government’s functions
was a matter for the Government and
Parliament to decide. That theory has
already had a pretty long run —in the
case of the Federal Government 58 years
—and has provided excellent material for
corroborating Parkinson’s Law.
The deputation had in mind a com-
mittee on the lines of the Hoover Com-
mission which investigated U.S. Federal
administration shortly after the war and
made recommendations which saved the
U.S. Government and industry many
millions of dollars. Despite the P.M.’s
cool reception of the suggestion for an
Australian Hoover Commission, the pro-
posal is a good one, and the bodies repre-
sented in the deputation should keep
plugging away at it.
• •
Drapery-shop assistants in Melbourne,
Ballarat, Geelong, Bendigo and Warr-
nambool are to get time-and-a-quarter for
Saturday work and it’s likely that other
shop-assistants will also get the rise. But
it isn’t thought that prices will go up.
“Retail trading is so competitive at
present it would be most difficult to put
prices up,” says the Vic. Retail Traders
Association glumly.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Wherr Elder, Smith and Co. advertised
for an office-boy in 1929 jobs were hard
to get, and hundreds of lads were
lined-up outside Elder House in
Adelaide waiting for the office to open.
One youngster ducked round into Way-
mouth Street and got in through the
rear entrance. They gave him the
BROKING WOOL
job. Today Alfred William Buttrose is
Queensland manager for Elders.
In between, Buttrose received his basic
training in the wool department, and
served in the C.M.F. as well. A
captain when he joined the A.I.F. in
1939 as an original member of the 2/10th
Battalion, he saw service in England,
Western Desert, Syria and New Guinea,
commanded the 2/33rd and the 2/sth.,
and finished the war with D.S.O. and
Bar and two “mentions.”
Back with Elders in 1946, he went to
W.A. in 1947. Then he was promoted
to Brigadier with command of the
C.M.F. H.Q. Group and later the 13th
Infantry Brigade. He was also A.D.C.
to the Governor-General.
In January this year he came back to
Elder’s head-office, and in July moved
to his Brisbane post. Elders are in a
big way in Brisbane, having acquired
Morehead's business in 1957.
• •
Sappers in Sydney are farewelling
Colonel A. H. Brewer, E.D., who’s re-
tiring as Commander, 5 Engineer Group.
Enlisting in the C.M.F. in 1925, Brewer
was commissioned in 1929 and served
with the A.I.F. in Syria and the Western
Desert. In the South-west Pacific, as
Commander Royal Engineers Ist Corps
Troops, he directed engineering activities
at Morotai and Tarakan. Appointed
Deputy Chief Engineer, Eastern Com-
mand, in 1952, he took-over 5 Engineer
Group in 1955. In civil life he directs
engineering operations in Hurstville
(Sydney).
• •
“El V.’s” note:
Passed on in England, at 94, Admiral Sir
Dudley de Chair, who was in office here
1923-30—longest-lived of all New South Wales
Governors and one of the most popular.
He had been associated with the Royal Navy
for 80 years, joining via the old Britannia in
1878. He commanded his first ship, H.M.S.
Bacchante, in 1905, was Winston Churchill’s
Naval Secretary during the stirring two years
before the beginning of World War 1, which he
entered as Rear-Admiral commanding the
northern blockade, 1914-16. He was promoted
Vice-Admiral in 1917, in which year he was
Naval Adviser to Balfour’s mission to the United
States. During the last two years of the war
he commanded the 3rd Battle Squadron, became
an Admiral in 1920, and for the three years
before he came to N.S.W. was president of
the inter-Allied Commission on enemy warships.
He was a bluff, friendly Governor, with a
family that he proudly proclaimed to be “true
British Empire”—his wife was a South African;
his second son, Somerset (for many years a
member of the House of Commons, and a
prolific writer of historical commentaries, fiction
and verse), went to The King’s School, Parra-
matta ; and his daughter, Elaine, identified her-
self thoroughly with the life of youth in Sydney.
The Admiral took his Governorship seriously,
and especially prided himself on his memory
for personalities and faces and the odd bits
of information that make life easier for a vice-
regal personage. His technique was wonderful,
but sometimes it went wrong, through no fault
of his own. Once the writer was acting as his
cicerone at an exhibition when he suddenly
exclaimed: “Tell me about that man over
there.” Unfortunately, inquirer and informant
were looking at two different men in close
proximity, so that one of them, who had just
acquired a bride via a cause celebre, was more
astonished than flattered when his Excellency
bore down on him with outstretched hand and
addressed him by the name of a well-known
racehorse-owner who had just acquired an
equally well-known young mare: “Ah, Mr.
! I hear you’ve made a great purchase.
Congratulations, sir. A beautiful filly, I’m
assured! ” Then, after a pause, feeling these
bald compliments needed embellishment: “They
tell me she’s the fastest thing on legs.” Nobody
enjoyed the joke against himself more than
the Admiral when he discovered his error
seme time later.
• •
A. R. Cutler, V.C., has been appointed
Australian High Commissioner to
Pakistan, relieving Major-General Sir
William Cawthorn, who becomes High
Commissioner to Canada. Cutler has
previously been High Commissioner to
New Zealand and to Ceylon and was
Australian Minister in Egypt, 1955-56,
until Nasser expelled the Australian
diplomatic mission at the time of Suez.
General Cawthorn was director of the
Australian Joint Intelligence Bureau,
1952-54, before he joined the diplomatic
service. He’s been in Pakistan since 1954.
• •
“R.R.D.”: Taktr hvo parts of soldier-
of-fortune, mix with keen observation
and vivid description, season with con-
viviality and garnish with wit, and you’ve
got Denis Warner. War-correspondent
and author, he wrote Out of the Gun,
an account of 11 years’ travel and war
in the Pacific, South-east Asia and Korea,
which draws logical but uncomfortable
conclusions. He’s the type that gets
around, and you might expect to run
into him anywhere: present writer has
now met him in Singapore, Indo-China
and Sydney; his latest trip was to
Indonesia, and undoubtedly he is planning
further travels; further writing too, I
trust, keeping up the high standard of
his previous book.
• •
“A.C.T.”: Due to look in on Adelaide
next month for the triennial conference
of the Victoria Leagues in Australia, Sir
Cuthbert Ackroyd, chairman of the
central council of the league and former
Lord Mayor of London. He intends
visiting the leagues in all States and in
Canberra, and also hopes to meet Lord
Mayors in office, though in the national
capital he will have to be content with
the chairman of the Advisory Council
or the Secretary for the Interior.
• •
“Nairda”: Karl von Stieglitz, Tas-
mania’s capable official Government
historian, is* warden of the Evandale
municipality, where he also runs a 1500-
acre property. His booklets on the
pioneers and old colonial life and times
in various districts of Van Dieman’s
Land are noted for scholarship and
humor. Since 1937 he has produced 23
small volumes and given the profits to
churches, hospitals, the C.W.A., and the
Soldiers’, Sailors’ and Airmen’s Memorial.
At present he is compiling a history of
local-government, and a record of the
early settlement of Bothwell on the Clyde.
He broadcasts regularly on bygone events,
and owns a valuable collection of early
Tasmanian books. The first von
Stieglitz arrived in Van Dieman’s Land
from Knockbarragh, Ireland, in 1829, and
received a grant of land from Governor
George Arthur the next year.
LAUGHING HISTORY


Dr. Donald Metcalfe, a Sydney
graduate, was sent by the Anti-Cancer
Council of Victoria for two years’ work
in the Boston (U.S.A.) Children’s Cancer
Research Foundation Hospital (part of
the Harvard University Medical School).
Now back, he will work with the Walter
and Eliza .Hall Institute in Melbourne.
He reports that cancer-research has made
rapid strides in recent years, especially
in early treatment of the disease ; but
the cure is not yet in sight.
e ©
When War II broke out, the pilots
and ground-staff to form No. 10 Squad-
ron, R.A.A.F., were in England aoout
to take delivery of the
Sunderland flying - boats
which were to be flown
back to Australia. Instead,
the Australian Govern-
ment offered the squadron
for immediate service in
Europe.
Among the original
pilots in Europe (all then
flight-lieutenants) were C.
W. Pearce and W. N.
Gibson ; each later col-
lected C.B.E. and D.F.C.
and both have recently
been promoted to air-
commodore. Pearce is
A.0.C., R.A.A.F., Rich-
mond (N.S.W.), and Gib-
son is at present at the
Imperial Defence College,
London. Others are three
more D.F.C.s: I. S.
Podger, now a group-
captain, just appointed to
command the R.A.A.F.’s
No. 86 Transport Wing;
J. A. Cohen, who changed
his name to R. Kingsland,
rose to the rank of group-
captain, gave flying away,
and is now Assistant-
Secretary in the Department pf Defence ;
and Air-Commodore Garing, now A.0.C.,
Point Cook. Bruce Courtney, another of
the originals, varied the pattern by
getting the M.V.O. and is now a group-
captain and Director of Training.
• •
Andrew McDonneil, chief inspector of
secondary schools in Victoria, has been
chosen for the new post of Assistant
Director of Education. A Scot, who
joined the department 32 years ago, he
is also a member of the Melbourne Uni-
versity Council and the interim council
of the new Monash University.
• •
Sir John Smith Teasdale, chairman of
the Australian Wheat Board since 1950,
who has resigned from the posts of chair-
man and trustee of the Wheat Pool of
Westralia, hailed originally from Alston,
Cumberland (Eng.); born 1882. At 40,
he, with three others, organised the W.A.
Co-operative Wheat Pool, of which he
has been trustee ever since and chairman
for over 20 years. He was also founder
of Co-operative Bulk Handling, Ltd. He
will remain an associate-trustee of the
pool, but able now to spend more time
in his home State (W.A.).
Few who know him as one of the
youngest and most successful of High
Court silks realise that Bruce P. Mac-
farlan served in World War II as a
Group Captain, R.A.A.F. —he won an
0.8. E. and nearly lost his life in Towns-
ville Harbor when 13 out of 19 passen-
gers in a landing service-aircraft in which
LIVING MUSIC
he was travelling were killed through a
depth-charge explosion—it was on that
occasion that A. H. Cobby added a
George Medal to his rainbow of decora-
tions. In the midst of a busy legal life
Macfarlan finds time for many useful
social activities, including the patronage
of art and the presidency of the Sydney
Musica Viva Society. Often to be
seen in full flight between the
High Court and a directors’ meeting of
the Pioneers’ Club, of which he is
president.
• •
As lecturer in Australian and English
literature at Geelong (Vic.) Teachers’
Training College, L. J. Blake, who now
becomes inspector of primary schools in
the Victorian Wimmera, has done a
whale of an amount of work fostering
an awareness and appreciation of Aus-
tralian writing. His annual literature-
days were backed by visits of leading
Australian writers, personally giving
students the benefit of their experiences
in their own field. Himself a prolific
freelance writer, Blake has scripted more
than 200 plays and documentaries for
the A.8.C., has written short-stories, and
there was a bright article from his pen
in a recent Bulletin. He served in
New Britain and New Ireland in the
Second World War, and is a member of
the Bread and Cheese Club.
• «
A Smith-Mundt grant from the U.S.
Department of Education has gone to
Les Johnson, senior lecturer at the Gray-
lands (W.A.) Teachers’ College. An
M.A. of the Westralian University, he
lectured at the Teachers’ College, Clare-
mont, before going to Graylands, where
he has been teaching history, geography
and sociology. He will spend six months
in the U.S. studying American educa-
tion methods, especially the training of
new teachers. Then he’s going, at his
own expense, to have a look at education
systems in the U.K., Europe and New
Zealand.
o •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 69, Lieut.-Colonel T. L. F.
Rutledge, of Gidleigh, Bungandore (N.S.W.),
who was with the A.I.F. on Gallipoli and in
France. Former M.L.A. for Goulburn, he was
a councillor of the Shcepbreeders’ Association
and also (for 17 years) of the Graziers’
Association. He owned Doncaster winner
Goose Boy.
In Perth, at 79, Charles Owens, well known
as a fencer (champion of Victoria, Western Aus-
tralia and Australia in his time and founder
of the W.A. Fencing Association), boxing-
referee and aicher (former Westralian champion
and founder of the W.A. Archery Association),
and for many years a familiar figure at the
private-box section of Perth G.P.O.
In Perth, at 65, Frederick Hinton, an Old
Contemptible (Coldstream Guards) who was
for 12 years patrol-officer at the Perth airport.
At Quirindi (N.S.W.), at 67, Percy George
Pryor, for just on 40 years Town Clerk of
Quirindi and actively interested in almost every
progressive movement thereabouts.
In Sydney, at 79, Harold Percy Jaffrey, known
for over 30 years in heavy industries through-
out Australia as transmission-expert of the
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co., and earlier a
noted runner and international lacrosse forward
in Adelaide.
In Adelaide, at 64, Cyril Henry Stacey, a
public servant for 50 years and for 15 years
S.A. Superintendent of Mails, a life-member
of the Adelaide Repertory Theatre and
formerly an office-holder of the S.A.
Amateur Athletic Association.
In Adelaide, at 83, Frederick James Wimble,
sharebroker, well known away from the Stock
Exchange for his successes as a Royal Show
exhibitor of flowers.
In Adelaide, at 70, Horace Reginald Hor-
wood, of the family engineering-business which
became Horwood Bagshaw, Ltd. He was a
foundation-member of the Brighton (S.A.)
Seaclifi: Yacht Club.
_ln Melbourne, at 43, Ivor Clay, Fitzroy
(V.F.L.) footballer (1940-46), playing alongside
his more famous twin-brother Bert. Ivor also
played district-cricket, with Fitzroy and Essen-
don, and afterwards represented Tasmania as
an opening-bowler.
In Brisbane, at 71, Dr. George William
Cardew Macartney; an Anzac, twice mentioned
in dispatches, he was Deputy Director of
Medical Services at the outbreak of War II
and after the war an honorary at Brisbane’s
Mater Hospital.
In Melbourne, Kenneth Duncan Macdougall,
managing-director of Sands and Macdougall
and a director of Kauri Timber Co., Ltd.
In Melbourne, at 86, James Francis Guthrie,
Victorian Senator 1919-38, first Federal Govern-
ment representative on the Australian Wool
Board and founder of the Guthrie Corriedale
Stud, near Wagga (N.S.W.).


ABORIGINALITIES
ONE BEACHCOMBER TO ANOTHER
TO “SNOW,” FROM “IRISH”
The most experienced active practitioner on our northern coasts
writes to a retired contemporary of his nicely-payable work off the
beaches and the marine wealth of the North. Signing himself “Irish”
and writing to “Snow,” he asks what’s wrong with other, younger
Australians that they are not up there hunting a share of this wealth.
“Snow” here interpolates explanations (in brackets) as required.
Looked in at Cooktown, but there
was nothing of interest there—
except that it would be a good
place to work from. Turned back
to T. 1., where they’re all cock-a-hoop
at getting permits to bring Jap divers
back—restricted to working over 17
fathoms and to raising 30 tons a boat
a year—a very good idea, as it will
reserve the shallow water for the Torres
Strait boys, and prevent any of the
grounds getting skinned-out again as they
were before the war.
Thursday Island has about 50 boats
working with divers for (pearl) shell, and
o Continued from last week )
“I get around !”
another 50 or so beachcombing on the
reefs and in shallow water for trochus
and trepang. All that I spoke to seemed
to be doing pretty well, and the hundred
boats are just a nice fleet—large enough
to work over the whole area without
working any of it out.
Incidentally, the trochus-boats there
throw away all the meat from inside the
shell—l always salt and dry it; sells
for £2OO a ton in Macassar ; about 2cwt.
of it per ton of shell. It’s a wonder to
me somebody isn’t exporting it to the
States. It’s just as good as abalone (25
cents each in ’Frisco)—of which there is
also plenty right round the coast,
-CROM T.I. turned back for home,
Looked in Merauke on the way.
Two old hands were doing well shark-
fishing and croc.-shooting, but I never
liked the area—too much fever. Started
to have a look along the coast, however,
and found a Dutch seaplane coming
round every two or three days to see
what I was doing. Thought they might
take it into their heads to pinch me on
some pretext or other, in which case
they’d certainly have grabbed the pearls
I had aboard—and I’d never have got
them back —so I cleared out.
On the run home called in on Zum’s
family on Banda Neira. The old man
died three years ago, aged 80. After he
sold Wallal Downs in 1912 he bought a
plantation in Fiji, and was fool enough
to entertain Von Luckner when he called
there in 1915 or 1916. Zum was in-
terned and his plantation expropriated.
When he got out he came to the Indies,
settled on Banda and developed a fine
plantation and what he claimed was the
best collection of orchids in the world.
He used to get them from all over the
world and grow them on a couple of
acres of thinned-out jungle near his
house. They were worth seeing. He told
me he made -more out of exporting
orchids than he did out of copra.
Neither the Japs nor the Indos inter-
fered with him, and the latter have recog-
nised his six half-caste kids as citizens
and divided the property equally among
them.
/"\n arrival back in Koepang found the
Japs moving in—over 100 of them in
the town taking-over jobs and businesses
vacated by the Dutch and Eurasians.
Thousands of them are pouring into the
Indies, and doing all they can to make
themselves popular. Once they dig-in
they'll never be shifted.
Once they move in, however, it’s time
for me to get out. ll’ve always .got on
well with the Indos —and so did every-
body else who minded their own business
—including most of the Dutch. Some
Dutch, however —far too many—never
ceased looking for trouble. And now
they’ve got it. The Government wanted
to keep them working in Indonesia, but
the mass of the population are so bitter
against them that the Government had
to kick them out to forestall widespread
massacres. The Darul Islam (Moslem
Army of God) are the same gang of
thugs they always were, but a lot
noisier now there are no Dutch troops
to crack-down on them. A couple of
darned-fool Dutchmen from here (Koe-
pang) thought they’d like to imitate
Westerling and lead the Darul against
the Government. They went over to
Flores and joined ’em. The Darul gang
promptly secured passages to Shorga
(Paradise) by cutting the infidels’ throats.
Their heads are now probably nicely
smoked in one of the hill villages.
I’m sorry for most of the Dutch and
Eurasians. The Government lost their
last chance by sending troops (90,000 of
them) to Java in 1946. If they’d done
as the British did in India —helped the
Indos develop their independence—
they’d have been stronger in the Indies
today than they ever were before,
Snow, here are the results of
" my trip. All told, I suppose w r e
worked eight or nine months in the two
years I was away. Sold my shell,
trochus and trepang for £l2jooo, and


"HERE COMES THE BRIDE!"


have a good £3OOO-worth of pearls on
hand—which I’m keeping. Every bit of
it picked-up without putting our heads
under water. Total expenses just around
£6OOO. If I’d had diving-gear and two
more boys aboard could have made twice
as much without ever going over six
fathoms —and working full-time I could
have doubled that.
The boys earned £l5OO apiece (and
tucker, of course). I’m giving each of
them a bonus of £lOO, and taking them
back to Cossack, where they’ll pay-off
with over £lOOO each—they’ve drawn
about a fiver a week each on the trip.
Both want to sign-on with me again
next year, and I'm taking them —couldn’t
get two better boys.
Once I get to Cossack I’ll settle in
Australia —not decided where yet,, but
it'll be either Broome, Darwin or Cairns.
I like ’em all, and I'll be glad to be back
in tropical Australia living among a
white population again. I’ve seen it hot
in the Persian Gulf, and cold in the
White Sea, and in between over most of
the rest of the world, but To live in I’ve
never seen anywhere to equal Northern
Australia —where it’s never too hot and
never too cold ; where you can live well
without working too hard —or even with-
out working at all—and where every-
body’s always got lots of time in which
to do anything—or nothing.
VI7HAT amazed me about my trip was
that over the whole twenty-five-
hundred miles of coast from Exmouth
Gulf to Cape York there isn’t one boat
working the inshore reefs and shallow
water. The one boat working out of
Onslow was pearling, not beachcombing,
and the Torres Straits boats beachcomb-
ing apparently don’t work west of Cape
York. The pearling-fleets at Broome and
Darwin, of course, all work well offshore.
What's up with the young fellows in
Australia today? Anyone knowing the
game (beachcombing) can make as much
up here in a year as in five years working
for wages down south —with no income-
tax. They’d make good money even
while learning the ropes. Drawback
must be that there’s no sheilas, pubs or
“pitchers” out on the reefs.
Two things I never understood about
you, Snow—why you left the North, and
why you’ve never come back. Better
come up and join me now. Between us
we might pick-up that 50-grain round
stone we’ve both looked for for so
many years and never found. Running
round the reefs up here your kids’ll earn
more and learn more than they ever will
in what you call “civilisation” down
there.
S’lcimat Kawan. Kirim soerat Vkas.
(So long, mate. Write soon.)
(end)
*** *
■ At Wee Jasper on the Goodra-
dj Rive near / ass (N . S . W . )> Mr .
| who fished the same pool with Mr.
£ driver to Dr. Evatt,
scattered Mf Mc .
_ , , J .
c “" s ove fi' X r„„ t
Promised he would Mr. Ing made a
special trip from Sydney for the cere-
mony; after which a Chinese feast with
roast-duck was served to 30 people on the
banks of thg river>
*** * '
Wommadoo : Inverell (northern
N.S.W.), 170 miles from the coast and
2000 ft. above sea-level, is a_ far cry
from arid outback Australia ; so a
motor-dealer who advertised a second-
hand car through the Inverell broadcast-
infestation was surprised to receive a
reply from Broken Hill, 600 miles away
as the crow flies. The prospective buyers,
it turned out, came from Goodooga, and
had sent their telegram another 400 crow-
miles to Broken Hill by radio trans-
rnitter. Goodooga is a mere 280 road-
miles from Inverell no trouble to the
buyers late-model Dodge, but a lot of
trouble to go to over a secondhand car.
Yes, but this car was something special
a 1929 A-model Ford:
* * „ *
“Bigend ": It's been an open season for
o.s. crocs, in the Territory, with 16-
footers fairly common. The latest, killed
by Mick Baker with a harpoon at Borro-
looga, had only three legs and was minus
about 2ft. of tail, apparently lost in a
scrap with another of its kind. It mea-
sured 6in. short of 20ft. When killed, it
had a large calf in its jaws.
* * ~ *
“Das”: It was a jungle-film on TV,
and the goodies were toiling painfully
and warily through the tangled growth,
ever watchful for the baddies, hostile
natives, *or wild animals. First, they
met lions, then elephants, and later
rhinoceroses. And, finally, to cap the
terrors of the jungle, bears —four koalas,
-clambering down a tall tree!
“Retired Bagman”: “Shamuseen” (B.
9/7/’sB)' has his analogies a bit mixed.
The Marie Celeste did not vanish beyond
all mortal ken like his Nancy Lee.
Actually the Marie was found, but no
trace has ever been discovered of the
crew.
* * * *
. Z'
“Sol”: The attraction that smoke
holds for eaglehawks, mentioned by
“Oliver Filter” (B. 16/7/’5B), isn’t con-
fined to that of grass-fires. At firing-
time in an open-cut mine on the South
Alligator River, - N.T., the smoke from
30-odd fuses brings large numbers of
them swooping down to investigate. The
fact that several have been skittled by
flying rocks hasn’t killed the curiosity
of the others, who repeat the performance
daily. Another bird in these parts
attracted to grass-fires is the peewee,
alias mudlark, alias dillipot, alias Murray
magpie, alias the piping-shrike. -
* * * *
“Ex-R.S.M.”: Tricks for keeping
warm when camping-out on a frosty
night? On an Army training-manoeuvre
on the Coorong (S.A.) in the winter of
1941 fires were forbidden. Our issue
was one blanket and groundsheet apiece,
and the chill of the air forecast a heavy
frost. Belonging to a bushwalking club,
I was 'carrying one of Paddy Pallin’s
eiderdown sleeping-bags, which pack
into a space smaller than a football,
weigh less than a single blanket, but are
warmer than three heavy rugs. The
others, except two, spent the night shiver-
ing. Of the pair, one made an auxiliary
blanket of four newspapers, which sup-
plied the needed warmth. The other
dossed in an old wombat-burrow. “Old
prospector's trick,” he informed us. “Get
underground on a frosty night.”
' s * * *
“Spooks”: Bank officials at Port
Moresby and in the highlands of Papua
and New Guinea are finding it hard to
keep up with the demand of natives to
be paid in ; shillings. A recent estimate
shows that £lOO,OOO in shillings has dis-
appeared from circulation. The natives
of Goroka are taking the coin into the
highland villages and burying it. They
call the shilling the “mark,” and refuse
to be. paid in paper-money, as this will
rot if buried or hidden. The intricacies
of banking are beyond them, and they
feel safe with their hidden caches. Much
of this will inevitably be lost, for very
often natives refuse to reveal the secret
of the hiding-place even when dying.
* * * *
“Comber”: Placenames on roadside
signs often merely mean that the council
employees were not strong on pronuncia-
tion, or spelling, or both. Chidowla
(N.S.W.) was called after a station of that
name a few rrules below the site of the
wall of Burrinjuck dam on the ’Bidgee.
A signpost on the Hume Highway indi-
cates a branch-road with the information,
“Childowla 12 M.” Since that was erected
there have been doubts and argument
about the correct spelling of a one-
hUndred-year-old name.


“Wu Foo”: For a lonely -journey the
250-mile Mulligan Highway, which links
Cairns and Cooktown (N.Q.), takes some
beating. Beside a section where the high-
way follows the crest of a ridge, by which
Nature has divided the rivers running
east and west, stands a solitary grave
neatly covered by concrete, with wrought-
iron side-rails and iron head-plate. All
trace of the unfortunate traveller’s name
has long since been erased by rust, but
scratched in large block letters are the
words “Guess Who?”
* * * *
' 4
“Jobber”: While I’ll hoist my cady to
the pea-pickers, I’ll plump for cabbage-
planting for as good a way as any to get
a marcel-wave in your spinal column.
I once set out to make new figures for
cabbage-planting. W'ith the seedlings
stacked on the headland, I started at
dawn (being midsummer, approximately
4.30) and was dropping the last 50 in
the final furrow as the daylight folded-up.
Tally: 3000. Reckon my cervical verta-
bne stretched 3in. in the process. I
eventually attained the vertical stance
much as a pocket-knife is gradually
opened-up, but far more jerkily.
•* * * ■*
“Retired Bagman”: Interested to learn
from a recent Bully that No. 8 wire is
out of date. In my youth it was reckoned
civilisation’s one great gift to the back-
country. Anything from a wagon-wheel
to a shotgun which couldn’t be made
servicable with a couple of twitches of it
was considered due for the scrapheap.
The only modern innovation which can
come anywhere near it for diversity of
uses is the 44-gallon drum. In addition
to its obvious suitability for storing
anything from horseshoes to fowl-wheat,
it can be flattened-out for building, makes
an excellent floodgate and is a good
substitute for a sliprail. Also, it’s the
right size to be dug into sandy soaks or
mud-springs, and, supplemented by a few
barrow-loads of antbed, it can’t be
bettered as a branding-furnace or a bread-
oven. Just after the war there were
hundreds of these drums around the
Territory, but they’ve mostly been
snapped-up.
*** ' * *
“Sevenelms”: Miri (Sarawak) Council
briefly announces in the local press that
the dog-catching squad will revert to
blowpipe. This means that, where pariahs
suspected of rabies have to be dealt with,
such canine emergencies will no longer
“And don't you like that lingering flavor of petrol?"
involve trigger-happy gendarmes, costly
bullets and much risk to passers-by.
There will be instead a Dyak constable
equipped with his native sumpitan, a
natty 7ft. ironwood blowpipe, and
ammunition of steel darts, each rooted
in a piece of propellent corkwood that
fits the fin. bore nicely. The steel point
will have been dipped in home-brew
upas-tree poison, which is quick-acting
and, since this marksman of the distended
cheeks would expect to hit a pigeon
(sitting) at 100 ft., it will be one dart
one dog.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Fibres of the sea-grasses —
not to be confused with seaweeds —have
remarkable insulating properties for both
sound and heat. This gives them some
limited commercial uses, including that
of providing mats in places like broad-
casting studios, w'here silence is impor-
tant. They could be used for other pur-
poses, but gathering presents problems.
Which is just as well for the dugong,
which graze on the underwater meadows.
* * * *
“Wandana”: When a power-blackout
occurred at Battery Point (Tasmania) a
householder, going outside to investigate,
noticed smoke coming from under the
eaves. After putting the fire out the
firemen found a bird’s-nest containing
dozens of cigarette-butts. An hour later
the brigade was called again, and in
another part of the house found a second
nest, equally well stuffed, and alight.
Verdict: the feathered bumper-collectors
picked-up some that had been throw'n
away alight. Bird homebuilders, co-
operating w'ith careless smokers, have
probably started other fires wrongfully
attributed to electrical faults.
/”\n the map, Ford’s Bridge (N.S.W.) is
marked as a township about 40 miles
north-west of Bourke: it is little more
than the bridge across the Warrego, which
trickles slowiy south and normally fades
out long before it reaches the Darling.
Some Hereford cattle grazed quietly on
one bank, and the litter of a swagman’s
camp, guarded by a dog, was spread out
on the other. A few yards further along
stood a post-office-CH/?z-store. In the
corner of the store sat an old gentleman
who sold my brother a stamp. Sitting
back on his stool again, he refused to
accept the letter when it was handed
across the counter, insisting that it must
be posted through the slot in the front-
wall of the old weatherboard building. He
was quite amiable, so my brother walked
outside to comply. I remained inside.
The letter came through the slot, gravi-
tated down a w'ooden chute, slid across
the floor and gently came to rest at the
postmaster’s feet. He bent over, picked
it up and dropped it into a mail-bag that
lay beside him. Thus are the formalities
observed at Ford’s Bridge ... a faint
smile and a brief nod of the head signi-
fied that the correct procedure for post-
ing a letter had been satisfactorily
carried out. —“Risdoog.”
FOR TURNER, PACIFIC ’44
My friend won an island
and lost his life
on a rock,
on an island,
in the sea,
far away.
Coral-embedded on- his rock
he guards his island,
in the sea,
far away.
Friend of sea
and sand and sun.
he stays—
on a rock,
on an island,
in the sea
far away
on the island
that he won.
N.S.W.
G. ARIA.


ALASTAIR W. MACDONALD
(MEMBER OF THE SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney Telephone BL 1504-5
J. T. HARRY & DIXON
(Eric E. Dixon, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
113 Pitt St., Telephone: 8L1987
Sydney Tel. Add.: "Harry Stock Exchange,” Sydney
Business, Robbery, Etc.
ALL-TIME PEAK
prices in Australia
touched an all-time peak
last week, just before B.H.P.
exhibited a profit that came
within striking-distance of the
record General Motors-
Holden’s showing of 1954 ; but
B.H.P. earnings came from the
use of much greater funds.
After the B.H.P. result was pub-
lished there was a steadying in
the sharemarket advance, but
to the average private investor
it still stands at a dizzy level so
far as the general run of “blue-
chip” shares are concerned.
2.9 per cent.!
To the thoughtful investor
these blue chips must in many
cases seem to be far too “blue.”
Yields of 2.9 p.c. from 1.C.1.
and Woolworths, 3.4 p.c. from,
8.H.P., are not the sort of
return the private investor will
grow fat on even if increased
50 p.c. through actual div.-
lifts or through cash-issues or
bonus-scrip. And the tempta-
tion of looking for capital-
increment to offset lack of
dividend-income has now every
appearance of having become
a trap for the unwary. Yields
from front-rank stocks have
dropped to such a low 16vel
that even institutional investors
are wondering about them.
One of the many factors
which a personal investor has
to contend with is that a public
company does not pay tax on
dividends received from another
company, whereas the indi-
vidual investor does have to
pay tax. This means that a
company investing in shares
listed on ’Change can afford to
accept a lower yield than the
personal investor. But for the
personal investor trying to ride
along on the market hoping
that the corporate investor will
accept still-lower yields and
thus send share prices to still-
higher levels is to take an awful
chance.
Institutional Investors
Other factors keeping share
prices up are the buying by
unit-trusts and staff-provident
funds, and a shortage of new
share-issues by listed com-
panies because they can ease
their own tax-burden by rais-
ing new capital in the.form of
notes . and debentures rather
than in shares.
There is certainly something
of a bottleneck in the avail-
ability of good-class equity
shares, and this may become
worse as the unit-trust move-
ment extends. . Australia’s
secondary industries are not
yet big enough to offer all the
opportunities for investment"
“Cripes, Bill— our car! T owaway job!”
that people who have accumu-
lated savings from pastoral and
other activities seem to require.
One of the reasons for com-
paratively low dividends from
Australian companies has been
the need to plough-back profits
to offset inadequate depreci-
ation allowances permitted by
the taxation authorities and to
provide capital not always
available on satisfactory terms
at the appropriate time.
When Plough-back Pays-off
In the end, with growing
population stimulating con-
sumer-demand, this type of
finance should result in profits
higher in relation to capital,
though not necessarily bigger
in relation to funds.
In most cases this will take
several years to reveal itself,
and only then if the ploughing-
back- process has ceased to be
necessary.’
The investor putting his own
money into shares, object
income as well as increment,
will be wise to pay attention
both to earning-power and
dividend in relation to market
price. He will find most oppor-
tunities to satisfy himself on
these scores off the beaten
track, and needing, sometimes,
fairly close investigation. But
opportunities do exist, and the
flood of accounts now coming
forth offers an interesting
field for study.
B.H.P.’s Final Figures
{'"\utstanding features of con-
solidated accounts of the
B.H.P. group for the year to
May 31 are a rise of about
10 p.c. in ingot-steel output
(to 3,029,486 tons), a lift of
26 p.c. in net earnings (to
£9,299,219), a rise in the earn-
ing-rate on shareholders’ funds
(from 10 p.c. to 11.1 p.c.), and
a fall in the earning-rate on
share-capital (because of the
capitalisation of share-pre-
miums last year) from 20.5 p.c.
to 19.2 p.c.
Other aspects of the accounts
of interest in view of market
expectations of a new cash
issue towards the end of the
year are a slackening in
capital-outlay- during 1957-58
—£22.8 million, compared with
£24.2 million —and a greater
liquidity in the appearance of
the accounts when compared
with a year ago.
Shareholders’ funds are up
£10.4 million to £B4 million
(in a balance-sheet total of
£156 million), plant-replace T
ment reserve up £6.1 million
(to £14.9 million), the
interesting “sundry creditors
and accrued charges, including
provision for income-tax, etc.,"
is £5.2 million higher (at £35.9
million), mortgages are £5.7
million up, and inter-company
balances are down £4.4 million.
Plant £93 Million
On the assets side freeholds
rose £0.7 million (to £2.6
million), plant £12.1 million
(to £93 million), Government
stocks, etc., went up by £10.4
million to £12.1 million, other
investments and deposits
dropped by £3.2 million, trade
debtors fell by £0.4 million,
while stocks on hand rose by
£4.1 million (to £33.6 million).
The board comments that
while considerable profit has
been fnade from export
sales during the year, recently
world demand for steel and
steel products has fallen
markedly, and sales overseas
have been considerably re-
duced. This, with an easing in
the home market for some
products, could account fo r
the slip in debtors and the rise
in stocks.
Depreciation £lO Miiiion
Before arriving at the con-
soli dated net profit of
£9,299,219 the B.H.P. group
visibly allowed £10,125,015 for
depreciation (up £2.3 million),
£6,120,000 (up £2 million) for
increased cost of plant-replace-
ment and £11,496,966 (up £1.9
million) for income-tax.
Because of last year’s capi-
talisation of share premiums,
the final div. - rate was
dropped .to 81 per cent., com-
pared with 10 p.c. previously
paid. The reduced B.H.P.
rate on the increased paid
capital (now £48,773,100, com-
pared with £35,955,467 a year
earlier) called for £3,653,452,
against £2,913,059.
On capital as it will stand on
September 29, an 8| p.c. dis-
tribution would call for
£4,416,000.
Booming Sharemarket -
The sharemarket has been
bidding-up B.H.P. shares to


£
How much of
Your Estate
will your beneficiaries get?
Specialised experience in the intricacies of
Estate Administration may well prove of con-
siderable advantage to you—and your depen-
dants. Union Trustee’s comprehensive services
—available at moderate charges, limited by
Law—ensure fullest conservation of your assets
and continuous, competent control of your
Ectate. Phone, write or call. There is mo
charge—no obligation.
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY' OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 18BS
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate : E. T. IT. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McJ’herson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debeuliam;
Norman J. Carson. C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Ollieer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learinontli.
*2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The ITon Robert CV Wilson, -C.M.G.. M.L.C. (Chairman);
T'he Hon. SSix* Graham Waddell, KICK. (Vice-Chairman);
The lion. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E.. Q.C.. M.L.C.; Bertram
,1. F. Wright, M. 8.8.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N, Mathieson.
Manager: A. B. Tilemanu. Assistant Manager:A. G. W. Dent.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District Representative
for Newcastle: 11. B. Morison.
3SB-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Breuan.; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Speneeley.
And
at Townsville,
Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Churleville.
TJT27a
new spectacular heights. The
day before publication of the
consolidated accounts they
reached a peak of 495. 3d.
Following publication they
firmed to 495. 6d.
At 495. 6d. the yield on an
8| p.c. dividend basis would
be 3.4 p.c.
B.H.P. has been one of the
leaders in the strong share-
market advance over the past
year. There has been a boom
in the best industrials, and in
spite of the big issues of shares
made by 8.H.P., carrying its
issued capital up to £53
million, and extending its
shareholdings to 54,054
different investors, there has
rarely been enough scrip to
supply the demand. A con-
siderable part of the present
premium being paid for the
shares must be attributed to
special sharemarket factors,
and can hardiy be based on
expectations of benefits directly
from the company within the
next two or three years.
The final call of 10s. on the
8,846,847 contributing shares is
due on Sept. 29. It will bring
in £4,423,423.
The company has been
depending as much on
ploughed-back profits for its
finance as upon share-issues.
Last term, in addition to the
£6.1 million set aside for plant-
replacement, undistributed
declared profits amounted to
£5.4 million. And there appear
to be inner provisions as Well,
judging by the amount allowed
for taxation —£14.5 million,
against a declared profit of
£9.3 million. Whilst it is well
known that depreciation
allowances permitted by the
Taxation Department as a
taxable deduction are mostly
inadequate in these times of
increasing plant - replacement
costs, B.H.P. appears to be
making-up for this tax-
anomaly in a very thorough-
going way.
In its bdrrowing policy, the
B.H.P. group has avoided the
open market, and has been able
to secure £12.2 million (up
£5.7 million last year) as loans
on mortgage. This is probably
cheaper and more convenient
than making an issue of
“notes,” either secured or un-
secured.
A Pause
Judged on the figures of
May 31, there appears to have
been, for the time being, a
pause in the momentum of the
huge undertaking. Capital-
outlay has eased a little, export
sales have fallen somewhat,
and liquidity of the group has
increased, as practically exem-
plified by the growth in
the holding of Government
security.
But the B.H.P. enterprise
still has a huge programme in
front of it, especially if the
new S.A. steel-making project
is to be added to its under-
takings. It will require much
more capital as time goes by,
but perhaps not as much as N
was expected for the immediate
future. And the ratio of
future issues will decrease as
the already huge basic capital-
account increases.
Barikewa and Puri (Papua)
[From L. Owen]
Tn its review of 1957 activities,
A the Australasian Petroleum
group announced that -its pro-
posed programme for 1958
included the completion, to
conclusive depths, of the wells
at Barikewa, Kuru, Komewu
and Puri.
The second well at Komewu
entered basement - rocks at
9950 ft. and was abandoned at
9977 ft. last April. Drilling at
Barikewa was stopped early
this month at the depth of
13,890 ft. in “arkoses and con-
glomerates believed to be
terrestrial in origin,” and, at
Puri, at 10,100 ft. “in a thick
mudstone series of no oil-
potential interest.”
This leaves only Kuru No.
3 well —admittedly the most
interesting of the Western
Papuan locations —drilling at
around 6000 ft.
No serious critic would wish
to belittle the magnificently
systematic and sustained effort
by the Australasian Petroleum
group -to discover commercial
oil in Papua, but it can be
questioned, quite fairly,
whether the entering of arkoses
and conglomerates in the Bari-
kewa well constitutes “comple-
tion to a conclusive depth”;
the same uncertainty arises
with reference to the Puri
mudstones.
If, as the technical advisers
appear to consider, the Bari-
kewa arkoses and conglomer-
ates are of terrestrial origin, a
little further drilling should
reach basement and thus pro-
vide conclusive reason for
abandonment. The same possi-
bility is obvious at Puri, where
the drill may be approaching
the base of the “thick mud-
stone series.”
A definite answer to these
problems can be obtained only
by further drilling, but it could
do no harm to publish the
reasons behind the statement
that the Puri mudstones are
“of no oil-potential interest.”
These questions may seem
to be of small practical import-
ance, but the continuance of
the wells to basement would
put an end to the ridiculous
rumors current, of the type the
furphy - factories disseminate
anywhere in the world at the
abandonment of every unsuc-
cessful well,
If the ending of drilling
is due either to rhechanical
difficulties or to financial
reaons, or to a combination


Nothing can equal
A Government - Guaranteed
investment for
Complete Security!
GOVERNMENT-GUARANTEED
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
wwm H BKa HPBk WUBP BfA WHr
s'/*% LOAN
For
5, 10 or 20 YEARS
Principal and interest are guaranteed by the
New South Wales Government, and secured
on the Bo a r d's income, estimated a t
£13,900,000 for 7958/9. Assets exceed
£ 135,000,000. An Avthorised Trustee
Investment.
Holders in Loan No. 43 maturing 15th October, 1958, are
invited to convert to this Loan. Those who convert gain
continuity of interest payments and earn a higher rate from
15th October, 1958.
Cash and Conversion applications may be lodged with any
office of the Commonwealth Trading Bank, Australia and
New Zealand Bank Limited, Bank of New South Wales, The
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited; Members
of Stock Exchanges, or the Sydney Water Board:
SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
NO W OPEN!
Underwritten by
Ernest L. Davis & Co„, Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
J. H. Clack '& Co. 3 Members of The Newcastle Stock Exchange.
MWS7.SB
of both, it should definitely be
so stated.
Australian Petrochemicals
An the surface, at any rate, it
would appear that Vacuum
Oil is likely to beat Paccal
into establishing anything re-
sembling a real petrochemical
industry in Australia. Paccal
(Petroleum and Chemical
Corporation) as yet has gone
little further than producing
oil-gas for Australian Gaslight
Co., light oils containing
benzene, toluene and xylene,
and petroleum tars. A petro-
chemical industry proper, as
understood in North America
and Europe, produces syn-
thetics (including synthetic
rubber) and chemicals in great
variety and abundance, but only
after big capital-outlay and the
establishment of adequate
markets for the main products
and by-products.
Paccal has a capital of under
£2 million, and its £1 shares,
though once a glamor stock,
are now below par at 18s.
It has been reported that
Vacuum’s petrochemical project
would involve an outlay of
£l5 million.
The deputy-chairman of
Vacuum Oil, J. D. Rogers,
said in Melbourne on August
20 that his co. had been work-
ing for some time on a number
of projects for the establish-
ment of a petrochemical
industry in either Victoria or
Sbuth Australia. But much
preliminary work had to be
done still before any decision
would be reached.
There appears to be a great
future for chemicals generally,
and for petrochemicals in
particular. Each year more and
more chemicals are made syn-
thetically from petroleum.
B.N.S.W. Issue
TS7HEN the new issue of shares
being made at par by the
Bank of New South Wales is
complete, paid capital will be
£2l,9so,ooo—about 3jr times
the figure of 1953.
There was a one-for-two
issue in 1953 at a premium of
£7 10s. per £2O share. In 1956
a one-for-three issue carried a
premium of £5 a share.
The present issue, one-for-
four, will be at par—219,500
£2O shares, bringing in
£4,390,000.
.The three issues since 1953
were the first since 1927, and
are -adding emphasis to the
“new” part of the ’Wales
capital-structure compared with
the “old.”
Much of the “old” capital.
was backed by pre-inflation
assets at written-down book-
values. But under the banking
legislation the earning-power
of the traditional banking
business was restricted, in spite
of the asset-strength of the
undertaking.
The “new” part of the
capital-structure probably will
have more scope for profit-
earning than the “old,” even
if not so strongly supported by
inner reserves.
The ’Wales has recently
invested in 40 p.c. of the capital
of the Australian Guarantee
Corporation, a well-established
hire-purchase concern. The in-
vestment represented 2,490,000
20s. ord.-stock units at a
premium of 12s. 6d„ on which
a 15 p.c. div., free of tax in
the hands of the ’Wales, is
received annually. Not so
long before, it began a trend
among the trading-banks by
starting a savings-bank. Within
the past few weeks it has gone
into the unit-trust business.
The ’Wales, probably more
so than any other Australian
bank, has a wonderfully spread
branch-and-agency system
which can be used to deal with
the public in a variety of ways.
By being used to the maxi-
mum, overheads can be reduced
and profit-earning extended.
At £39, cum rights, the ex-
rights price of the B.N.S.W.
shares is £35 45., with the rights
at a theoretic £l5 4s. The
yield on the current 9 p.c. div.
basis would be 5.1 p.c.
More details of the issue will
be given by the ’Wales later,
when some announcement as
to dividend prospects may also
be offered.
The BaOz. Glass
'T'he N.Z. liquor trade is
seeking a writ of
certiorari against members of
the Price Tribunal, quashing
its order fixing the maximum
price of draught-beer at Bd.
for 84oz.
More than 20 prosecutions
have been laid against publi-
cans for disobeying the order,
and the Minister of Industries
and Commerce said recently
that they would be proceeded
with. The court, he added,
could not change a price-order.
If any change were made it
would have to be done by the
Price Tribunal after hearing
additional evidence.
Meantime the publicans are
blithely going ahead charging
9d. for a 9oz. glass which
rarely, if ever, contains more
than Bk>z. Drinkers must pay
or go w-ithout.


T/
U
eor platss
fofZ.
A
uru.£ , n
«


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Nude with Violin”
Noel Coward’s new play at
Sydney Royal is good enter-
tainment, but not Coward at
his best. An atmosphere of
vaudeville replaces the tight wit
of his best pieces, and he is
not much at home as a rebuker,
even of contemporary art. It
is not even much of a surprise
when the first curtain falls on
the announcement that Soro-
din, the dead artist, never
painted a picture: hoaxes of
abstract art have been too
common. But when the play
becomes a set of portraits of
the two mistresses whom, with
a Jamaican religious fanatic
and a last-moment surprise,
Sorodin had persuaded to paint
his primitive pictures for him,
Coward is in his element:
Bettina Welch, though a little
hard to hear, was a beautiful
and tempestuous Princess Pav-
likov, and Fifi Banvard,
escorted by Carl Lukk, as her
gigantic and speechless gigolo,
was a salty, brick-dropping ex-
vaudevillian.
The family who had to put-
up with the disclosures and
demands were also excellent
Coward portraits: and excel-
lently acted.
Sebastien, the valet who
“For this imbecilic gesture, Sir Walter, methinks thy
trouble' n' strife will have a piece of thee."
organises the whole action and
resolves it to his own advan-
tage, is written for Coward
himself; Helpmann plays it
with every imaginable grace of
action and charm of manner,
but cannot quite secure the
menace and toughness which
might have been expected from
Coward.
❖ *i* *i*
“Anniversary Waltz
Garnet H. Carroll is proudly
presenting “Anniversary
Walt z,” a new American
comedy by Jerome Chodorov
and Joseph Fields, at the
Princess, Melbourne, and there
are some grounds for his ela-
tion, inasmuch as the trifle
comes to Melbourne after two
record - breaking runs on
Broadway and over a year in
San Francisco and brings along
with it the American film, tele-
vision and stage star Richard
Arlen, whose soft drawling
voice and engaging smile won
him his first job in Hollywood.
Arlen plays with zest his
part of a bewildered husband
whose confession that he has
had premarital relations is the
mainspring of the action. Mel-
bourne-born Pat McDonald,
who plays his wife, does it
with sympathy.
Arlen wears some really
startling shirts, mainly grey
with white collars and cuffs.
The play is a light satire on
family life, with TV bringing
the differences between the
members to' a climax.
❖ ❖ ❖
Israeli Wonder
The fifteen-year-old Israeli
wonder Daniel Barenboim
walks, bowing modestly, to the
platform, squats himself com-
fortably at the piano and then,
without bothering to look
round him, completely loses
himself; and no doubt that
is what a prodigy is. Perhaps
Daniel's greatest talent is a
total concentration of his
senses.
Daniel's lions’ den in this
case was the Melbourne Town
Hall, the occasion a celebrity
concert and the subject-matter
Beethoven’s Fourth Piano
Concerto, of which he gave an
account which was warm and
glowing.
But Master Barenboim is not
yet a technical wizard—several
pianists visiting Australia over
the past few years have greater
control in this department—
rather, he is a musician of
remarkable maturity.
Whereas his phrasing in the
quieter, slower passages lacked
absolute accuracy, his read-
ing of the score as a whole
brought to a head the full
meaning of the music. Our old
friend Rafael Kubelik was
clearly out to help his young
soloist, and he had his
orchestra speaking rather
quietly in the background.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
A Beckett Play
A high point in the first
round of the British Drama
League’s festival of one-act
plays in Sydney was the Sydney
University Dramatic Society's
production of Samuel Beckett's
most recent play, “Endgame.”
The “action”takes place in a
cell-like room containing four
people: a blind old man con-
fined to an armchair, an old
man and an old woman con-
fined in dustbins, and a man-
servant. The armchair character
is master of the place, and he
nags and badgers the others
and they hit back as best they
can. As the play takes shape,
and these ridiculous people talk
of their pathetic needs,
thoughts and memories,
the situation, by some sort of
theatrical magic, becomes more
and more like life as it is;
in fact, at times it is more like
life as it is than life is.
It is a play that must have
an intelligent and sensitive
performance, and that is what
producer Pamela Trethowan
and the S.U.D.S. players gave
it.
J. A.
❖ ❖ ❖
William Warfield
The great American bari-
tone’s determination to keep
his programmes —except for a
handful of Aaron Copland’s
humorous American folk-songs
and the usual final bracket of
negro-spirituals—on the highest
artistic plane led him, in the
nine songs which comprise
Faure’s “La Bonne Chanson,”
into some arid and austere
territory; but even here his
superb sense of nuance and
tone-shading enabled him to
wring some diversity from
songs whose moods are closely
related and which, in less-
skilled hands, could be deadly
monotonous.
Two great declamatory songs
of faith —Heinrich Schuetz’s
“Hurry, Lord, To Save Me”
and Monteverdi’s “Laudate
Dominum” were magnifi-
cently sung.


Estab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and. Commercial
- Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
OSCU-IVAM
PTY LTD v
'/fs. at.“At
JacksonS O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating:
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL <fc COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Divorce Notices
TO PATRICIA MAY ILLSLEY formerly
of Knutsford Street East Fremantle
Western Australia. —TAKE NOTICE that
your husband BRUCE ARTHUR
ILLSLEY has commenced proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for Divorce on the
grounds of desertion by you for a con-
tinuous period of three years or more
If you desire to defend such proceed-
ings you must file your defence in the
Central Office of the Supreme Court at
Perth Western Australia within FORTY
CLEAR DAYS from the date of this
publication. In default of your so doing
the cause may proceed and the Comt
will pronounce judgment and make
orders against, you in your absence
DATED this 20th day of August, One
thousand nine hundred and fifty eight.
-—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causer Jurisdiction
TO ROBERT MICHAEL CASEY late
of Yass.—TAKE NOTICE that RITA
CAROLINE CASEY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2303 of 1958 on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 7th day of
November 1958 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, New South Wales,
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—IN Divorce.
Matrimonial Causer Jurisdiction
TO DAVID LEO STAFFORD late of
Port Kembla.—TAKE NOTICE that
MERLE JUNE STAFFORD has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 840 of 1957
on the grounds of desertion for three
\ ears and upwards without just cause
or excuse If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 7th
day of November 1958 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor,
107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO SERGE CHOURLIANIS late of Oak
Flats.—TAKE NOTICE that JOYCE
OLIVE CHOURLIANIS has filed# Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2819 of 1968 on
the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 7th day of
November 1958 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-
109 Elizabeth Street, Sidney, New
South Wales.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO ALBERT JOSEF REBER late of
North Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
SIGRID CHRISTEL RUTH REBER has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2475
of 1958 on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 7th day of November 1958 and
obtain a copv of the Petition without
charge fvom" CHARLES GRIFFITHS,
Solicitor, 107-109 Elizabeth Street Syd-
ney New South Wales. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO ALLAN WILLIAM BRAND late of
Melbourne—TAKE NOTICE that
CATHERINE McLEAN BRAND has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 698 of 1958
on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie-Street Sydney by the 7th day
of November 1958 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-
109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Films
“Don Quixote”
This Russian rendering (at
the Australia, Melbourne) of
Cervantes’s immortal classic is
extraordinarily well done. It
was shot in Spain and appar-
ently in the town of the worthy
knight of La Mancha —a
simple mudbrick town sur-
rounded by stony, arid moun-
tains.
If the actors are Russian
they don’t betray it, either in
word or action. They look
and live their parts, and their
words are amazingly well
dubbed-in in English.
The melancholy knight, who
looks at least 7ft. in height,
rides forth on Rosinante with
Sancho on his donkey, and
all the essential incidents of the
story are narrated. Quixote
maintains his dignity through
all his fantastic misadventures
and emerges on his deathbed
as a wise and almost a Christ-
like figure, not a fool —it is
his persecutors who appear
fools, which is probably what
Cervantes intended.
+**
“Paths of Glory”
The irony of Humphrey
Cobb's novel about World
War 1 is faithfully captured in
this German-American pro-
duction, one of the best of its
kind.
The French general (George
Macready), under suave pres-
sure from his corps-commander
(Adolphe Menjou), orders a
battalion O.C. to take an
exposed redoubt, irrespective
of losses, purely for the glori-
fication of the two generals.
When the attack fails, as the
O.C. predicted, the enraged
general orders three rankers,
picked at random, to be tried
for cowardice. They are found
guilty and executed “as an
example to others,” despite
their being defended brilliantly
at the court-martial by their
0.C., who in private life was
a renowned criminal lawyer.
In the end the general is him-
self sent for court-martial by
the G.O.C. for ordering his
artillery to fire on his own men
when they wavered.
* The acting is excellent and
the battle-scenes in no-man’s-
land are the most convincing
since “All Quiet On the
Western Front.”
At Sydney Esquire.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ❖
“The Sheepman”
Hollywood satirises its own
feuding sheepmen and cattle-
men in this polished Western
comedy from M.G.M.
Glenn Ford, drawling, whim-
sically humorous, wins a herd
of sheep in a poker-game and,
just because someone said he
couldn’t do it, parks ’em bang
in the middle of cattle-country,
and then the local beef-baron
calls on all the time-honored
schemes to rid himself of the
interloper.
Ford gets good support from
Shirley Maclaine as the folksy
girl who finally comes on-side
with him.
At Sydney St. James.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Run Silent, Run Deep”
Clark Gable takes command
of a U.S. sub. in the Pacific
after losing one through
alleged recklessness in an
earlier engagement.
Burt Lancaster is his No. 1
whose resentment at having
been passed-over for the
appointment is shared by the
crew. The friction flares-up
during an operation against
Jap shipping, but they close
their ranks in the face of a
threat from a Jap sub.
Run-of-the-mill rough-stuff,
but the underwater scenes —
except a couple in too-obvious
studio-tanks —are done with
some realism.
At Sydney Plaza.
Artbursts
Charles Bannon
In a season of gales and rain,
Charles Bannon’s exhibition of
gouaches at the Society of Arts
bursts on Adelaide with the
impact of a summer's day.
The gaiety of the color is the
most obvious feature of this
exhibition, but in Bannon's
most successful pictures the
color is strictly controlled and
coherent. Two studies of a
city at night, “Night Departure”
and “City Asleep,” explore the
broken planes of deserted
streets and their haunted
shadows through the depths and
shifts of a midnight blue. There
is a chilly remoteness about
these pictures, but Bannon can
also be warm-hearted, and
Dylan Thomas’s “Mustard Seed
Sun” and a more ordinary
“Sunrise"’ show confident
roosters and dazzled herons
saluting the hot source of life.
The bright energy of this
exhibition takes a certain toil
in an occasional failure to
connect technique and subject-
matter.
G. D.
❖ ♦> ❖
Churchill Paintings
My first acquaintance with
Churchill as a painter was at a
Royal Academy exhibition,
where J walked around some
six-hundred huge and shining
works and only found out
afterwards, from the catalogue,
that Churchill was amongst
them. Obviously he was neither
conspicuously good nor con-
spicuously bad.
Then, later, I saw a lot of his
works reproduced in a book ;
and—particularly a goldfish-
pool which might have been
. influenced by some of Monet’s
waterlily - paintings they
looked quite remarkable. But
reproductions, alas, are mis-
leading.
On the whole, in the travel-
ling exhibition at the N. S.
Wales National Gallery, he
looks much as he did at the
Royal Academy—only more
visibly. The least successful of
his paintings, scenes from
France under Impressionist
influence, are amateurish, but
fair enough ; the best of them,
English landscapes with a
touch of W'ilson Steer, are
(thank Heaven) genuinely


ASSETS EXCEED
£55,000,000
PAID UP CAPITAL
£9,000,000
T-J
'
-l
CJ
c
SHAREHOLDERS'
FUNDS
£11,500,000
IN REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
p.a...Oyrs.
I.A.C. guarantees fixed quarterlyi
income, free of exchange.
Our Auditors, L. B. Wallace &
r Son, Chartered Accountants (Aus-
tralia), have certified that the
r Tangible Assets of the Group as
r at 31st May, 1958, amounted to
£58,441,576.
For full details, see Prospectus: your copy available from Members
of Stock Exchanges, 703 Branches of A.N.Z. Bank Limited
or I.A.C. Branches.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LTD.
(Established 28 years)
SYDNEY t MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART • CANBERRA
• NEWCASTLE • WOLLONGONG • GEELONG
Underwriting Brokers:
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne,
Canberra and Sydney
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders:
The Perpetual Executors & Trustees Association
of Australia Limited
attractive. He does best when
he is smooth and flat and
simple, as in “Lake in Norfolk”
and the flowerpiece with the
white rose ; and when he has
this firm basis of drawing he
is capable, as in “Palladian
Bridge,” of enriching it with
light and shade and depth to
make a painting which would
hang without apology in any
company.
The exhibition, consisting of
36 paintings, was secured
for Australia by R. G. Menzies,
who contributes a foreword to
the catalogue, stressing the
interest of the exhibition as the
work of “the greatest of
national leaders, the most
eloquent of speakers, a very
great master of English prose-
writing, an accomplished
soldier, a superb talker, a
competent bricklayer, and,
beginning quite late in life, a
painter of simplicity and direct-
ness, sensitive to light and color
and pattern, with a fine bravura
touch significant of his own
character.*’
D.S.
❖ ❖ *
The Colqvhouns
A. D. Colquhoun (Melb.
Athenaeum) is at his best when
he chooses to be simple and
direct. His impressiveness as a
painter diminishes when he
attempts to bring finish to a
work especially among the
portraits—from his knowledge
and memory of the subject and
not from that direct impres-
sion which is revealed solely to
the eye ; but this does not
happen often.
Witness his delightful sea-
scapes, like “Waterworn Rocks
at Airey’s Inlet,” “Boat
Builders' Sheds at Church
Point,” “Low Tide at Pitt-
water,” and it becomes increas-
ingly obvious that Colquhoun
understands and loves what lie
sees. He conveys a vivid sense
of atmosphere ; boats, figures,
chunks of wood are sharply
drawn against the pale blues,
greys, greens and purples of
the surrounding hills, seas and
skies.
His portrait of Miss R. H. F.
Gainfort is competent, but fails
because the important masses
are not fully realised and the
detail becomes irrelevant. Two
head-studies, “Joan” and
“Jean,” are warmer, simpler,
truer.
His wife Amalie has a sense
of the dramatic, as in the
composition of “The Burnt
Boat,” which gives a . strong
account- of color, tone and
perspective. The portrait
“Anne” captures a sense of
youthfulness and, tonally, seems
truer than “Mrs. Rupert
Sadler.” Her landscapes have
a charm similar to her hus-
band’s.
❖ ❖ ❖
Yorick Competition
The Yorick Club, of Mel-
bourne, is carrying on the
Marcus Clarke tradition by
holding its fifth art-competition
Fifty guineas will be the reward
for the best entry in either oils
or watercolors, and the winning
entry will become the property
of the club. An exhibition and
sale of pictures will be held in
the club’s chambers, and the
judge will be a qualified artist.
Entries close on Sept. 13, and
forms can be obtained from the
hon. sec., Champion House,
57 Swanston Street.


The WILD CAL
COLUMN
William Adams & Co., Ltd.
While the paid capital of William
Adams and Co., Ltd., has risen by
over 60 p.c. in the last two years, the
profits of this successful steel-merchant
and tractor-distributor have tended to
decline, a further weakening, last term,
leaving the margin between earning- and
div.-rates finer than at any time in the
preceding 16 years.
As a one-for-five bonus-issue, in 1956,
contributed to the increase in share-
capital, the sluggishness of earnings is,
perhaps, less disturbing than it might
appear at first glance. Nevertheless, it
does limit the chances of early gains, in
terms of either income or capital, and
since publication of the latest accounts
(during the second week of July) bids
for co.'s £1 ords. have eased from a
rather optimistic 635. 3d. cum div
(Is. 94d.) to around 58s. 6d. At this
price the scrip would yield £5 2s. 7d. p.c.
on the basis of an unchanged 15 p.c.
distribution.
William Adams’s activities embrace the
merchandising, throughout Australia, of
a wide variety of steels, machine-tools,
hand-tools and engineering-supplies and,
as agents for C. A. Parsons and Co.,
Ltd., the sale and erection of power-
generating and other electrical equipment.
Through William Adams Tractors Pty.,
the co. holds the Victorian and Tas-
manian franchises fqr the well-known
Caterpillar range of tractors, earth-
moving equipment, etc., a second off-
shoot, William Adams Steel Reinforce-
ment Co. Pty. (N.S.W.), specialising in
steel-bending and the production of steel-
reinforcements for use by building-
contractors.
A further investment, last year, in
Griffiths Bros. Ferrodor Paint Co. Pty.
gave William Adams a majority share-
holding in the co., which was formerly
controlled by Griffiths Bros, and Co.
London, Ltd., while, in the current term,
an interest in Reynold Chains (Aus-
tralia) Pty. has been sold to Reynold
Chains, Ltd. (U.K.), and distributing-
rights obtained from another U.K.
manufacturer, The Perry Chain Co.,
Ltd. Other recently-secured agencies
cover automatic production-tools from
New Britain-Grindley (U.S.A.) and
Andre Bechler, Ltd. (Switzerland), and
general engineering-plant from Worthing-
ton Corp. (U.S.A.).
The big (£6-million) expansion-pro-
gramme undertaken in Australia by
Caterpillar Tractor Co. of U.S.A. has
already freed the tractor offshoot from
some of the problems associated wfith
the supply of dollar-goods, and, with
the development of the American co.’s
plans in Australia and Scotland, William
Adams Tractors dropped the John Deere
franchise (tractors, farm-equipment, etc.)
last term in order to concentrate on the
Caterpillar range.
On its own account, William Adams
has invested heavily in new premises and
plant over the past decade, and the rapid,
and profitable progress made by the
organisation in the six years to 1952
was accompanied by a substantial in-
crease in share-capital, the £555,000 put-
up by shareholders during that period
including £90,000 of share-premiums.
Simultaneous par (two-for-five) and
bonus (one-for-five) issues in 1956, along
with an issue to employees, at a 50 p.c.
premium, have since raised the one-class
paid capital to £1,180,000; and there
is £20,000 yet to come on scrip issued
to the staff. At April 30 last share-
capital enjoyed the support of a sizeable
£1,094,105 of visible reserves.
Group sales for the year to April 30
were the highest on record, a better
showing by the tractor co., which had
lost ground in the preceding term, off-
setting a slip in the sales of both the
parent and steel-reinforcement cos.
Operating-expenses were “approximately
the same” as in the previous term, despite
the pressure of labor-costs, but strong
competition in none-too-buoyant markets,
trimmed back profit-margins to such an
extent that pre-tax earnings fell from
£409,002 to £354,315. A smaller, but
ample, tax-provision (down £45,543 at
£151,511) left net profit at £202,804. or
£9144 below the figure claimed for 1956-
57. However, when allowance is made
for the over-provision for tax in that
year, the actual drop in earnings shows-
up as £24,644:
William Adams and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
April, Profit. r Dividends N serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
Added on consolidation, £8543 .. 643,029
Tax overprovided, £26,535 . . - ■ 669,564
1954. .200,686 15 -p.c. = 108,750 91.936 761,500
Added insurance reserve, £4682 .. ,66,182
Tax overprovided, £IO,OOO .. . . 776,182
1955..232,792 15 p.c. = 108,750 124,042 900,224
To insurance reserve, £6024 .. .. 906,248
Asset revaluation, £55,000 . . . . 964,248
1956. .228,909 15 p.c. = 108,750 120,159 1,081,407
Share premiums. £9981 .. .. 1,091.388
Reserves capitalised, £145,000 .. 946,388
Tax overprovided, £16,000 .. . . 962,388
To insurance reserve, £5765 . . 968,153
1957. .211,948 15 p.c. = 144,000 07.948 1,036,101
Tax overprovided, £15,500 .. .. 1,051,601
Share-premiums, £10,019 .. .. 1,061,620
Added insurance reserve, £5631 . . 1,067,251
1958. .202,804 15 p.c. = 175,950 26,854 1,094,105
To maintain the 15 p.c. div.-rate,
adopted in 1951, the board distributed
over 86 p.c. of the profit, the £202,804
representing a return of 17.2 p.c. on
average paid capital. The div.-rate hasn’t
dropped below 10.1 p.c. since 1937.
As emphasis in the Caterpillar range
is on earthmoving- and construction-
plant, this side of the business should
escape some of the immediate effects of
last year’s slump in farm-incomes, and,
while the slower rate of commercial
building may keep sales of reinforcing-
steel in check, turnover is expected to
continue at a “satisfactory” level in the
first half of the current term.
The development of a 104-acre site
near Melbourne as the new headquarters
of the parent’s Victorian branch is now
well under way, and to help finance this,
and other construction-work, £200,000
was borrowed, last year, from the A.M.P.
Society, repayments falling due over the
next 20 years. A further £200,000 will
be made available by the A.M.P., on the
same terms, before 1960 and, on present
indications, should cover capital-require-
ments for the next few years:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957. 1958 .
Paid capital .. £725,000 £1,167,114 £1,180,000
Reserves .. .. 1,081,407 1.036,101 1.094,105
Overdraft . . .. 687,288 712,579 668,512
Mortgage .. ..
Creditors* .. 1,024,009 817,414 776,448
Tax provision .. - 212,475 167,207
Final divs. .. 65,250 91,800 105,750
£3,582.954 £4,037.483 £4,192,022
Freeholds .. .. 548,189 666,040 655,642
Plant, etc. .. 210.255 229,466 237.824
Shares .. .. 38,464 42,313 50,006
Stocks .. .. 1,759,111 2,073,095 2.170.491
Debtors .. .. 1,025,677 1,025,190 1,045,059
Cash, bonds .. 1,258 1,379
£3,682,954 £4,037,483 £4,192,022
* Includes provision for contingencies and, in 1956
only, provision for taxation.
Reductions in the overdraft (down
£44,067), creditors, etc. (down £40,966),
and tax-provision (down £45,268), kept
the increase in total outside liabilities
and provisions to £83,649, and, with
stocks £97,396 heavier and book-debts
up by £19,8.69, working-capital rose by
£232,237 to £1,497,633. Both stocks and
book-debts are shown after deducting
unstated provisions.
Including uncalled capital, book-values
(consolidated accounts) give each £1 ord.
a net tangible cover of 38s. 3d.
Rothmans of Pall Mall (Aust.), Ltd.
TTaving annexed a sizeable share of the
market with a haymaking advertising
offensive which has wrought a minor
revolution in the nation's smoking-habits,
Rothmans is nearly ready to join the
ranks of the div.-payers.
This relative newcomer's success with
the king-size cigarette has also caused its
largest and much more powerful competi-
tor, British Tobacco Co. (Australia), Ltd.,
to jump on the same bandwagon, even
despite the expensive plant-replacement
involved, with the result that the larger-
type “tailor,” virtually unknown a few
years ago, now claims a 25 p.c. hold over
the total market, and is rapidly increasing
its penetration.
The local Rothmans was formed in
April, 1955, under the auspices of Roth-
mans, Ltd., of London, which took-up
250,000 20s. ords. for cash in its new
offshoot and also received 125,000
deferred 20s. ords. in exchange for the
Australian rights to its trade-marks. The
Australian public was let-in to the tune
of a further 375,000 ords., giving it a
50 p.c. interest, which the parent group
is “most anxious” to see maintained.
From the outset, the goal was volume
of turnover rather than immediate, low-
level profits; but this policy put an
immense strain on rather limited
resources, and losses which had resulted
in a deficit of £587,000 by the end of
June, 1957, had to be made good by stop-
gap loans of over £1 million from asso-
ciates, supplemented by other borrowings.
But, with the more optimistic note


struck this year, the board has decided
that it is opportune to place the financial
structure of the concern on a more ortho-
dox footing. To this end there is a cash-
issue of 937,500 ord. shares coming up,
offered at par in the ratio of five shares
for every four stock-units held on August
22, 1958. Payable 10s. on application,
with the balance due on December 15,
the new shares will rank for dividend as
from the beginning of the current term.
The overseas group will be taking-up
its full entitlement, and the issue will be
underwritten by lan Potter and Co., who
handled the original flotation.
Presumably the associates will finance
their quota by a conversion of the exist-
ing loan, and the board claims that
interest charges thus saved, plus the
present rapidly increasing earning-rate,
will ensure a satisfactory dividend-cover
for the higher capital.
The third term, to June 30 last, yielded
a net profit of £252,439, a very pleasing
swing of £474,801 from the previous
year’s £222,362 loss; but better is to
come—“it will be appreciated that the
profit-rate towards the close of the year
was very much higher than in earlier
months.”
To arrive at the term’s result, deprecia-
tion was charged against gross earnings
at the healthy rate of £85,779 (£46,762
in 1957) and interest on borrowings from
all sources at £154,769 (£68,943).
The rapidity of the upswing in Roth-
mans’ fortunes is indicated by the con-
fident prediction that all accumulated
losses will have been wiped-off the slate
before the end of the current calendar
year, and a maiden dividend has
been budgeted for next March, at the
rate of 8 p.c. p.a.:
To Re-
June, Loss. , Dividend serves. Deficit.*
£ p.c. £ £ £
Goodwill, etc., £125,616 . . .. 125,616
Preliminary expenses, etc., £43,301.. 168,917
1956 .. 196,220 ----- 365,137
1957 . . 222,362
Profit.
1958 .. 252,439
* Includes intangibles.
Since, on last year’s return, the visible
earning-rate on capital as it will stand at
the end of the year is already 15 p.c.,
the board seems to be setting its sights
commendably low ; it should not be for-
gotten, however, that on present indica-
tions it won’t be long before taxation
rears its ugly head.
Three years of balance-sheets pub-
lished to date testify to the effectiveness
of Rothmans’ opening gambit:
Paid capital— 1956. 1957. 1958.
Ord £625,000 ..625,000 £625.000
Deferred .. 125,000 125,000 125,000
P. and 1. a/c
Due to associated
cos 73,513 589.247 1,114,371
Overdraft . . 398.804 389,613 415,705
Creditors, etc. .. 95,818 628,005 1,071.433
£1,318.135 £2,356,805 £3,603,948
Freeholds .. 197,279 253,148 317,151
Plant . . . . 270,655 504,488 793,817
Investments .. 2 329 356
Stock .. .. 394,448 722,454 1,455.793
Book-debts .. 72,921 282,087 420|555
Cash .. .. 643 656 T’l77
Prepayments and de-
ferred expenditure 17,050 6,203 22.014
Intangibles . . 365,137 587,500 587,579
£1,318,135 £2,356,865 £3,003,948
Turnover is not disclosed, but book-
debts, up £353,634 since June, 1956, and
£144,468 over the past year, show that
it is assuming massive proportions. In
the same two periods, inventories have
shown respective increases of £1,061,345
and £733,339. The working-capital posi-
tion seems satisfactory, but is obscured
by the inclusion in sundry creditors of
an unstated amount for undefined
provisions.
The deferred shares rank after the ords.
for a return of capital, but the articles
provide for a cancellation of this pro-
viso after tax-paid profits have been at
the minimum rate of 10 p.c. for a period
of three years.
Demand has far outrun the promoters’
original expectations and the peak-
revving plant-capacity— current output is
six times that planned initially, it is
claimed—and a feverish extension pro-
gramme finds its reflection in a £352,832
rise in the book-value of fixed assets
during the year, £64,003 in the case of
freeholds, £228,829 for plant.
Altogether, Rothmans’ modern manu-
factory in the Sydney suburb of Gran-
ville is to have grafted on to it 50 p.c.
more potential, and if the market con-
tinues to outgrow that, a second site in
another State will be developed.
From a “low” of 12s. 6d. in 1956, the
f.-p. stock-units have recovered to their
present 245. 6d., giving at that price, on
the basis of the board’s anticipations, a
a tentative yield of 6.5 p.c. Net tangible
asset backing for the ords. is 13s. 4d.,
while the deferred shares have no cover
at all.
Finance Corp. of Australia (S.A.)
T>reaicing away from the earlier policy
of confining operations to its home-
State, South Australian financier Finance
Corporation of Australia, Ltd., recently
moved into N.S.W. and Victoria “to
satisfy an ever-increasing demand from
the eastern States,” backing-up this step
with the announcement of a one-for-one
par issue and a new series of short- and
medium-term debenture-stock.
Expansion last term took a rather
different form, the co. entering the field
of real-estate finance with first-mortgage
loans on land and second-mortgage loans
on housing. Although advances on land
are repayable in monthly instalments,
latest accounts show a surprisingly large
(and, from the homeseeker’s point of
view, pleasing) proportion of total funds
tied-up in loans to individuals and other
cos., the relatively small (£3 million)
increase, last term, in the S.A. h.-p. debt
contributing, no doubt, to this situation.
Further business of this class is expected
in the current year.
Launched late in 1954 by Automobile
Finance Co., Ltd., which brought along
valuable connections with the Weymouth
(Adelaide) group of car- and tractor-
distributors, F.C.A. was soon under the
protective wing of the Bank of Adelaide,
the bank, with a 40 p.c. shareholding,
being joined by Adelaide retailer John
Martin and Co., Ltd., and Pope Indus-
tries, Ltd., as substantial shareholders.
Automobile Finance was taken-over by
its erstwhile protege in January of this
year, and is now a wholly-owned sub-
sidiary of F.C.A.
First payment on the new issue (2s. 6d.
a 10s. share) is due on August 27 and will
take paid capital to £625,000. No pro-
gramme of calls has, as yet, been
announced, but, as last term’s earnings
equalled only 8.8 p.c. of the proposed
£1,000,000 share-capital, some time may
elapse before the uncalled £375,000 is
gathered in.
Although F.C.A. has at times had the
edge on many of its competitors in the
matter of interest charges, in the scramble
for new business the co. has tended to
follow a more conservative line than
some h.-p. financiers. The “selective”
approach adopted by the board in the
acceptance of h.-p. contracts resulted,
last term, in many contracts being paid-
out long before expiration, with a con-
sequent drop in h.-p. outstandings, the
increase in borrowed funds (up
£’1,236,185) exceeding the growth in total
outstandings (up £867,719) by £368,466.
Holdings of cash rose by £309,652 to
£478,569.
Down by approximately £330,000, at
£3,006,020, h.-p. outstandings represented
around 10.6 p.c. of the S.A. h.-p. debt,
compared with a little under 16 p.c. at
the end of the previous term, the overall
increase in debtors arising from a big
jump in loans, etc., which are shown
separately in the balance-sheet, for the
first time, at £1,739,902. At June 30 last
unearned income was calculated at
£374,738 (down £41,825) and represented
an adequate 12.5 p.c. of h.-p. debts:
1956. 1957. 1958.*
Pnid capital .. £500,00 £5.00,000 £500,000
Reserves . . .. 10,584 41,726 84,126
Debentures and
deposits . . 1.555,100 3,059,885 4,296,070
Unearned income.. 235,588 416,563 374,738
Creditors . . . . 39,420 40,327 31,378
Tax provision . . 37,560 67,600 54,209
Final div 25,000 25.000 25,000
£2,403,252 £4,151,101 £5,365.512
Freeholds . . . . 66,106 66,589 102,990
Office equipment, etc. 9.445 20,703 22,071
H.-p. contracts ( <, ns-a vfti a 070 9oa ( 3,006.020
Loans, etc. ) 2.086,081 3,8.8,203 j 1>739 902
Cash .. .. 220.162 168,917 478,569
Intangibles .. 23,958 16,689 15.960
£2,403,252 £4,151,101 £5,365,512
* Parent and subsidiary.
Alterations to the Adelaide head-office
and the purchase of a freehold property
in Melbourne added £36,401 to the book-
value (cost) of freeholds.
In the parent’s accounts the end-result
was £921 smaller at £80,221, but Auto-
mobile Finance Co.’s contribution kept
combined earnings in front of the
previous term’s effort, and, after estimat-
ing the tax-collector’s share at £52,216
(down £15,384), consolidated net profit
advanced by £6915 to £88,057:
Parent Co.
To Re- Ro-
j„Tie Profit. f —-Dividend serves, serves.'*
30, £ £ £ £
i 9,16 . . 54,673 10 p.c. = 45,000 9,673 10,584
1957.. 81,142 10 „ ~50,000 31,142 41,720
Parent and Subsidiary.
Tax overprovided, £4343 .. .. 46,069
1958.. 88,057 10 p.c. = 50,000 38,057 84,126
* Subject to intangibles, £15,900 at June 30, 1958.
F.C.A. graduated as a div.-payer, with
a 10 p.c. distribution, in the 1955-56
term and has had no difficulty in holding
to this rate over the last two years, net


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
(ieorge RlliHon Switch (iear,
et„. Makers of Classillers,
Water Filters, Steam \aives,
etc
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LTD.
makes life
so much
easier
/\/\v
n
w.
for those it serves . ..
Perpetual Trustee Company Ltd.,
as Executor and Trustee, manages Estates
ta
cr
efficiently in the best
interests of the
beneficiaries. It gives
them confidence. Its
mature advice is
always available
to cope with any problems
that lie ahead.
You can ensure this
service for your family.
Call by appointment
(Tel.: B 0377) and
discuss matters
without obligation.
If you prefer, ask
that we send you
a copy of our
booklet on this
important subject.
h
Mr
r A
m
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR & TRUSTEE AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR,
ETC.
DIRECTORS: HON. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, m. 1.0., chairman;
SIR EDWARD KNOX, vice-CHAirman ; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; JOHN W. DUNLOP; JOHN DARLING.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, managing director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT ORANGE & TAMWORTH
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (CANBERRA) LTD.
M.L.C. BUILDING, PETRIE STREET, CANBERRA CITY.
LOCAL DIRECTORS IN ADDITION TO THOSE MENTIONED ABOYB:
WARREN D. MCDONALD (vice-chairman),
S. G. McFARLANE, NEVILLE C. MILSON.
earnings representing 13.7 p.c.
on share-capital in 1956, 16.2
p.c. in 1957 and 17.6 p.c. last
term.
Well aware of the depen-
dence of local industries on the
availability of consumer-credit,
the S.A. Government is un-
likely to rush into any drastic
legislation affecting h.-p. trans-
actions, and, with TV-trans-
missions expected in Adelaide
towards the end of next year
and the new branches picking-
up business in Victoria and
N.S.W., the way seems clear
for F.C.A. to bound ahead
over the next couple of years.
Buyers on the Adelaide
’Change expressed their con-
fidence in the co. last week
by offering 17s. 3d. for the
f.-p. 10s. ords., for a return of
£5 15s. lid. p.c. from a 10 p.c.
distribution. Rights to the
new issue provided a somewhat
cheaper entry at ss. 7d. In-
cluding the new scrip as paid
to 2s. 6d. only, there was 225.
4d. in net tangible assets at
balance-date for every £ of
share-capital.
John A. Gilbert Holdings
■Deports that both B.M.C.
AV and Ford aim to capture
a larger share of the new-car
market, with new “Australian-
made” models, suggest that, if
their efforts are successful, the
car-buying public may find the
buyer’s market becoming more
< f a reality as far as Holden
vehicles are concerned.
Meanwhile, Holden dealers
continue to wax fat —albeit in
a less magnificent fashion than
General Motors-Holden’s on
the profits won from retailing
the popular Australian car. As
a body, they handled at least
44 p.c. of the 113,361 new
motor-vehicles registered in
Australia in the first six months
of 1958. At the end of the
half-year B.M.C. and Ford
were runners-up to G.M.H. in
the manufacturers’ division of
the motor-vehicle stakes, with
a little under 27 p.c. of the
market, divided, slightly in
favor of 8.M.C., between them.
The John A. Gilbert
organisation comes into the
picture as one of Sydney’s four
major Holden distributors, a
status acquired in 1948 when
the principal subsidiary dropped
the title of Reo Motors Pty.
and, as John A. Gilbert Pty.,
linked its fortunes with those
of the Holden. Bedford buses
and diesel engines were added,
earlier this year, to the range
of new vehicles and parts
carried by the co., a
separate subsidiary handling
the Holden dealership in the
northern suburbs of Sydney.
In addition to trading in new
and used vehicles, spare-parts,
etc., the group provides hire-
purchase and leasing facilities
for its clients and, through
Bus Lines of Australia Pty.,
operates bus-services between
a number of N.S.W. country
centres.
Scrip in the parent co., John
A. Gilbert Holdings, Ltd., was
first listed on the Sydney
’Change in January, 1955, a
par issue (two-for-five) coming
up shortly after listing and
another (three-for-10) in the
following year. Subsequent
issues, in exchange for fixed
assets, etc., have taken paid
capital to £555,719, the
£50,000 of 6 p.c. cumulative
prefs., included in this total,
joining with the ords. in divs.
of up to 8 p.c.
Increased operating - costs,
and the higher selling-expenses
brought about by growing
competition, have pared down
profit-margins over the last
couple of years, but this shrink-
age has been largely offset by
an expanding turnover, grpup
sales rising from £2.7 million,
in 1955, to £4.8 million for the
year to March 31 last. Lower
rates of co.-tax also helped the
co. last term, and, while pre-
tax earnings dropped from
5 p.c. to 4.7 p.c. of turnover,
taxed profits were held at 2.9
p.c.
All subsidiaries contributed
to group-earnings over the year,
the vehicle-distributing off-
shoots increasing their share by
selling 3277 new and used
vehicles, as against 2862 in
1956-57. Earnings from the
financing of h.-p. transactions
were also higher, although not
quite up to expectations, and
there was a slightly better
return from Bus Lines of Aus-
tralia. However, results of the
youngest member of the group,
Industrial Lessors Pty., appear
to have been disappointing and
only a “small” profit was
turned in by this co.
All told, net earnings added
up to £128,264, or £15,844
more than in the previous term,
after allowing an extra £15,230
for depreciation (£41,303) and
providing £80,461 (down £2471)
for taxation:
Dividends—— N Re-
Meli., Profit. Pref. r Ord. ——serves.*
6-8 p.c.
£ £ £ £
Parent and Subsidiaries.
’55..100,345 4000 15 = 39,082 92,893
Shu re-issue expenses, £2171 90,722
Profit sale assets, £9322 .. 100,044
56..115,991 4000 15 = 56,426 155,609
Share premiums, £11,308 .. 166,917
Share-issue exp., etc., £2194 164,723
’57..112,420 4000 15 = 62,556 210,587
Profit sale assets, £440 .. 211,027
’58..128,264 4000 15 = 75,858 259,433
* Subject to intangibles, £101,351, at
31/3/’5B.
Holders of the unlisted prefs.
collected another 8 p.c., the


The SAFE ten-per-cent
r
/
/
/
PRODUCTIONS LIMITED
£lOO,OOO
0
CASH DEPOSITS
INVEST IN ONE OF AUSTRALIA'S MOST
RAPIDLY EXPANDING INDUSTRIES
Deposits, on the attractive terms listed below, are
invited to meet the expansion demands of Carapark
Productions Ltd.—the manufacturing and distributing
Company of the profitable Carapark Group. Deposits
rank ahead of shareholders’ capital for repayment. Full
particulars from your Broker, from any Branch of the
National Bank of Australasia—or send coupon below.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
CORRIE & CO.
(Members of the Brisbane
Stock Exchange)
127 Eagle Street, Brisbane
Branch Offices: Townsville,
Surfers Paradise
CERTIFICATE OF ASSET BACKING
We hereby certify that the tan-
gible asset packing is £lB5 for
each £lOO of liabilities, including
Cash Deposits. In each of the
last 3 years, profits before tax
would cover interest payments
on Cash Deposits 3 times over.
Henson, Gates & Co.,
Public Accountants.
BANKERS: THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
CARAPARK PRODUCTIONS LTD.
is one of the CARAPARK GROUP
To: Carapark Productions Ltd.,
681 Parramatta Rd., Leichhardt, N.S.W. Ph. LM7317.
Please send me full particulars of your 10% Cash Deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
CD B
L
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to ah independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant super
vision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
lf» Spring Street. SYDNEY BU 3445
108 Queen Street. MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
balance of the profit represent-
ing 24.6 p.c. on the higher
average ord. capital, compared
with 26 p.c. in the previous
year. The ord. div.-rate
remained steady at a well-
covered 15 p.c.
The group has looked to its
bankers over the last couple
of years for some of the funds
involved in a growing turn-
over, the overdraft jumping
from £26,504 to £155,157 in
the last two years. A relatively
heavy outlay, last term, on free-
holds (up £79,237) and plant
(up £25,113) left working-
capital £18,745 lighter at
£395,349, but, at balance-date
finances were reasonably com-
fortable. At the same time,
proposed extensions and altera-
tions to premises may call for
additional outside money:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1957. 1958.
Pref. capital .. £50,000 £50,000
Old. capital .. 469,185 505,719
Reserves .. 210,587 259,433
Mortgages, etc... 48,927 49,152
Overdrait .. 97,421 155,157
Creditors .. 115,501 141,874
Deposits .. 28,381 21,091
Tax provision .. 157,831 134,036
Final div. .. 35,495 39,929
£1,213,328 £1,350,391
Freeholds, etc... 128,807 208,044
Plant .. .. 134,447 159,560
Stock .. .. 291,975 313,001
H.-p. contracts .. 421,260 - 397,889
Debtors .. 130,666 171,020
Cash. etc. .. 4,822 5.528
Goodwill, etc. .. 101,351 101,351
£1,213,328 £1,356,391
Stocks (up £21,026) were a
little higher at the end of the
year ; while sundry debtors (up
£40,354) rose rather sharply,
competition among h.-p. finan-
ciers reduced the amount owing
under h.-p. agreements by
£23,371, after making suitable
provision for unearned income.
To counter a further slip in
profit-margins expected in the
current term as a result of
intense competition, it will be
necessary to boost turnover
even higher. In this respect, the
group got away to a good start,
and sales for the first quarter
of the year are reported to
exceed those of the correspond-
ing period in 1957.
Supported by net tangible
assets of 6s. 7d. (consolidated
accounts) the f.-p. ss. ords.
would return £8 11s. sd. p.c.
from a 15 p.c. distribution at
last week’s price of Bs. 9d.
Mtnisig and the Australian
Economy
Tn his address on August 15 to
A the winter school of the
N.S.W. branch of the Eco-
nomic Society of Australia and
N.Z., Dr. Harold F. Bell,
economist to the A.M.P.
Society, underlined the need
for a radical transformation in
the present method of financ-
ing Australian mineral develop-
ment, which has in the past
been hamstrung by its com-
parative unpopularity with run-
of-the-market investors, and
by the growing disillusionment
which has followed .the failure,
so far, of oil-search and the
“new” glamor minerals to fulfil
their early promise.
Considerable overseas capi-
tal will be required to exploit
the huge known and unknown
ore-reserves of this country,
and much of the local contri-
bution will have to be chan-
nelled in the main through
specialised agencies such as
investment- and unit-trusts,
banks and life - assurance
offices, which would, with their
diversified portfolios, be able
to withstand any incidental
losses.
Institutional investors will
necessarily be slow in coming
around to this line of thinking,
but the present continuing low
yields from front-rank indus-
trials is gradually forcing even
the most conservative to look
more favorably on investments
with a greater element of risk.
In the case of industrial
minerals, “risk” is a short-term
concept, where co-operative
financing is concerned. Output
in most categories is running
ahead of present world require-
ments, but it is authoritatively
predicted that demand for new
metal production will more
than double in the next 20
years.
Dr. Bell drew attention to
the parallel experience of
South Africa, where, in the face
of a similarly reluctant money-
market, specialised mining-
finance houses were developed
on a large scale; and also,
mining groups were induced to
finance new ventures on a co-
operative basis, putting-up
capital in agreed proportions.
King Island Scheelite
The directors of King Island
Scheelite (1947), Ltd., say
that, as the mine is now
on a care-and-maintenance
basis and a large portion of its
revenue will be derived from
investments, it has been
decided to include in future
annual reports a summary of
the investment portfolio. The
first summary will be published
in the next annual report to
stockholders.


Public Notice
ESTATE JOHN PATRICK KENNY
DECEASED
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the
Deputy Master of the Supreme Court of
South Australia has directed that all
persons claiming according to the law
of South Australia to be the next-of-kin
oi JOHN PATRICK KENNY, late of 49
Partridge Street, Glenelg, in the State
of South Australia, Out of Business,
deceased .("'ho died at Adelaide in the
said State on the 7th day of August,
1954), living at the time of his death,
or the issue or the legal representatives
of any person who is claimed to have
been the next-of-kin of the said deceased,
are to send by post prepaid full par-
ticulars of their claims in writing to
HAROLD ROBERT FOALE, of Colonial
Mutual Life Building, 41 King William
Street, Adelaide, Solicitor, on or before
the 30th day of September, 1958, other-
wise they will be excluded from the
distribution of the estate. Dated this
30th day of May, 1958.— GEORGE H.
Walters, Deputy Master of the Supreme
Court of South Australia.
Note. The said JOHN PATRICK
KENNY was born at Adelaide, South
Australia, on the 27th day of March,
1887, and was the only child of
CHARLES PATRICK KENNY (other-
wise PATRICK KENNY) and MARY
KENNY (nee Kellary or Killerv).
The said CHARLES PATRICK
KENNY is believed to have been born
in County Kerry, Ireland, to have re-
sided in County Roscommon, Ireland,
and to have arrived in South Australia
before the year 1886. —HAROLD
ROBERT FOALE, Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 41 King William Street,
Adelaide, Solicitor for the Administrator.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £Bl,ooo } ooo sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Auitralia.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
CfiNCE Britain's immediate
future largely depends
upon the confidence that others
have in it, the steadily increas-
ing prestige that Macmillan has
won is encouraging.
Less than two years ago the
Suez affair threw the Conserva-
tive party into despondency and
disarray. Later domestic events,
too, suggested a progressive
deterioration. There was the
crisis of last September, when
our credit fell so low that de-
valuation of the pound seemed
imminent; and, hard upon the
raising, apparently in despera-
tion, of Bank-rate to 7 p.c.,
there followed Mr. Thorney-
croft’s resignation, with its
implication that the Govern-
ment, torn between uncom-
promising stringency and
laissez-faire, was breaking-up.
The Prime Minister’s com-
mand is the more remarkable,
not just because it has
developed quietly and incon-
spicuously but because it has
spread, in all directions, like
the branches of a tree. Whereas,
before Suez, one heard
murmurs of apprehension in
informed circles, now those
who are close to the hub of
affairs are all praise. Party-
workers have become more
confident and enthusiastic.
Moreover, Mr. Macmillan,
whose personality is anything
but dynamic, has several suc-
cessful television appearances
to his credit. Despite his
natural shyness and detach-
ment, he even managed to out-
shine other, well-practised, TV
figures.
Because a general election
must come sooner or later,
these abstractions are im-
portant. Confidence is a diffi-
cult factor to evaluate. But it is
a quality that Macmillan both
projects and inspires, though
not, perhaps, instantly. And if
he emerges, as many foreign
observers believe he will do,
as the shrewdest statesman in
the West, the lookout for the
Labor party may be a sorry
one.
Opposition Malaise
In the ideal, the value of the
two-party system is that it.
makes for an Opposition which
is ready "and able to supply
an alternative Government and
which, for this reason, keeps
the Government of the day on
its toes. We are far from that
ideal. In fact, the lack of a
responsible alternative to the
Conservative party is a sad
handicap to the workings of
our political system.
That alternative can never
mature while the Labor party is
wedded to Socialism. Which
means, of course, never. It is
a depressing thought for all
citizens of average, or more
than average, responsibility,
from the industrialist to the
provident householder, that
some time in the future he will
be faced with a crisis and see
his careful husbandry jeopard-
ised.
But it is comforting to reflect
that the immediate danger is
slight, for the Labor party is in
very low water. It has abso-
lutely nothing to offer save out-
worn dogma and negation. It
has learnt, painfully, that
arraignment of the Tories does
not always pay, for, when
British troops are involved in
overseas engagements, attacks
on Government policy, whether
right or wrong, only alienate
the electorate.
Nor does the recent mani-
festo, “Plan for Progress,” the
last of its three-year pro-
gramme, promise to gain a
single convert. This pamphlet
makes some attempt to shed
established and unpopular—
dogmas, but they crop-up in
other guises.
It emphasises that planning
doesn’t mean a return to
detailed controls, and states:
“Much of what is needed can
be achieved by consent alone.
A partnership between the State
and both sides of industry is
essential to democratic plan-
ning.” This immediately pro-
voked a hostile reply, shatter-
ing so far as co-operation is
concerned, from the Institute of
Directors. The institute un-
doubtedly saw red at the sug-
gested national investment
board, aimed at the “large
monopolistic firms” and requir-
ing them to report their invest-
ment plans so that “measures
can be taken to retard or
accelerate them according to
economic needs.”
The policy - makers are
obviously trying to come to
terms with capitalism, arch-
enemy of the doctrinaires, and
are groping for a formula.
They must gain, or pretend to
gain, the confidence of business-
men and they must persuade
the doctrinaires that it is all for
the common good. In the one
instance the answer is a posi-
tive “Not likely!” and in the
other a reaction, certain as to-
morrow’s dawn, to the old
parrot-cry of “More Socialism.”
Vive L’Amour
The portrayal of low life on
the stage, usually with satirical
intent, is as old as civilisation.
Aristophanes plied it to the
Greeks, Plautus to the Romans.
And it was an Irish intellectual,
Dean Swift, who suggested to
John Gay that a pastoral on
Newgate prison “might make
an odd pretty sort of thing.”
The “Beggar’s Opera,” besides
cropping up in revival, directly
inspired Brecht’s “Die Dreigro-
schenoper” and Gershwin's
“Porgy and Bess.”
Another work of this genre
has now reached London from
Paris, where, one learns, it is
both very uninhibited and very
successful. “Irma la Douce”
(Lyric Theatre) is described as
a musical comedy and boasts
the customary proliferation of
credit titles. It is decidedly
odd, and, in a way, pretty,
though an outline of the plot
comes near to unprintability.
Irma is a poule (prostitute) in
the “Milieu” (the demi-monde
behind Place Pigalle). A young
law student meets her in
the Bar-des-Inquiets and the
two fall in love. She, knowing
only one profession, works to
help him with his studies until
he, growing jealous, mas-
querades as an old man so that
he can monopolise her. Then,
becoming jealous of his other
self, he throws the old man’s
clothes into the Seine, only to
be arrested for murder, con-
demned and dispatched to
Devil’s Island. She, pining for
him, reforms and waits. His
homecoming, to find her faith-
ful to his memory and devoted
to their newly-born child, is
not unlike D’Alroy’s return in
“Caste.”
The odd thing about this
strange affair is that, unlike the
earlier models referred to, it
is a bright and shining morality.
True love conquers all, includ-
ing, error, sin, authority and
corruption. It is a morality
play, with a difference.
While watch-committees will
veto (and, no doubt, the
Wolfenden committee will dis-
approve) there is little —on an
adult level at any rate —to give
offence. It really amounts to an
intellectual frolic, with sophisti-
cated fun and some incisive
satire at the expense of French
officialdom.
Peter Brook's direction is
gloriously witty and tongue-in-
cheek. Elizabeth Seal, the only
female in the cast, is engagingly
simple, naive and lovelorn.
Keith Michell, another convert
to musical comedy from the
classical stage, gives strong
masculinity, a fine baritone
voice and a touch of Marcel
Marceau to Nestor-le-Fripe, the
student. Yet another convert
(this time from Stratford-on-
Avon) is Clive Revill, who,
turning up in various guises as
chorus, points his comments
with delightful subtlety.


Science Takes Over —
A Station at Ginninderra
By GWEN HUTCHINGS
The ceremony of turning the sod at
the C.5.1.R.0.’s new 2500-acre
experiment-station at Ginninderra,
halfway between Canberra and
Hall on the north-west border of the
A.C.T., marks the end of an old, and
the beginning of a new, era.
The Ginninderra estates were originally
a much larger holding and the centre
of a farming community. Until recently
the property was farmed under lease-
hold by several descendants of pioneer
families of the district. Now science,
bent on improving agricultural produc-
tion, is the new tenant of land rich in
Australia’s early history.
Little remains of Ginninderra as it
was in the early days, apart from the
stone ruins of the original homestead
and stables, the English oak-tree more
than 100 years old, and a few relics of
the post-office and police-station of the
village.
The little church of St. Paul, with its
greying shingles, seen on a sunlit autumn
day has been described as the perfect
picture of Matthew Arnold’s "little grey
church on the windy hill.” But all that
remains today is the ghost of its former
foundations, barely discernible, on a rise
overlooking the Murrumbidgee and the
mountain ranges beyond. St. Paul’s was
built about 1862 by William Davis and
his wife, w'ho held the Ginninderra
estates from the 1850’s onward. The
walls were partly slab and weather-
board, and partly lath-and-plaster ; a
huge brick fireplace, sft. square, pro-
vided much-needed w'armth in the winter.
Services were held there for over 40
years ; it also became the school-house ;
and many local folk were laid to their
rest round it. Nearby, the two stark
cypress-trees and the clumps of reedy
bulbs suggest the possible site of the old
graveyard.
Something like a version of “Romeo
and Juliet” lies behind the lonely grave
of a young woman resting somewhere in
the paddock, long-named the “cemetery
paddock.” For more than 200 years there
had been a feud between the families of
Mclvor and Shanahan. About the year
1804 it w'as made more bitter by the
marriage, in Ireland, of the only son of
the Mclvor family with the only daughter
of the Shanahan family. On the night
of a parish ball the lovers, escaping
parental vigilance, eloped to Cork,
married, and embarked on a ship bound
for Sydney. Vowing he would have
Mclvor’s life, Jim Shanahan, the bride’s
youngest brother, followed the couple’s
trail to Ginninderra, only to find his
sister had died in childbirth, and that
Mclvor, heart-broken, had left the
There were many unsolved mysteries
and suspected murders over the years.
The Boyd brothers, in burning a dead
tree, discovered a human skeleton that
had apparently dropped into the large
hollow trunk from above. Bone buttons,
a clay pipe, and a tinder-box, with flint
and steel, were recovered, but the mystery
could not be solved.
in a double tragedy the last resident
of the old homestead and his groom were
drowned on a dark night attempting to
cross the flooded Ginninderra Creek with
a buggy and horses near the homestead.
Curiously, the groom was buried in the
church ol St. John the Baptist in Can-
berra, while the grave of Edward Crace
lies on the banks of Ginninderra Creek,
marked by a single square post.
The first wagon in the district was
introduced during the 1850 s by. John
Gillespie, of Ginninderra. Previously,
enormous loads were transported from
place to place on rough slides and
sledges, and after those a few wheeled
jj-Q °
’ . , , ~ ,
Ginninderra was also Widely known
for its cnckeMeam formed by William
'I . , eP f o n f°c f o e, ” S
. to beat any team outside of Sydney.
Interesting weather records (in view of
recent blaming of the bomb ) include a
severe drought in 1865 ; extraordinary
"Prevailing winds blew the plumb-bob out when I Was building.”
hailstorms, the first in 1860 and another
i n 1868, when the hail lay a foot deep
on the Ginninderra plain; and the
great rainstorm of March, 1882, when a
fall of more than 6in. in less than an
hour was registered,
In the early ’sixties, two residents of
Ginninderra, Tom Gribble and Tom
Wells, on the way to Sydney with their
wool, were held-up by Ben Hall and his
gang of bushrangers. The hold-up
occurred on the Goulburn side of Col-
lector. Other teams were held-up at the
same spot. About the same time the
gan g also held-up the Gundaroo mail-
coach at Gearys Gap, near Lake George,
apd the records say that William Davis
was relieved of a new revolving rifle
and a double-barrelled shotgun which he
bad bought in Sydney to defend him-
self against the outlaws,
Neighboring land to Ginninderra,
originally granted to Charles Sturt as a
reward for his explorations, is now the
site of the Belconnen naval wireless-
station.
Todav at Ginninderra vast changes
0 f } Ginninderra vast changes
are already taking place with the develop-
ment of one of the most important field-
stations in the Southern Hemisphere. But
a littlc ot the old days wil , f ive on
the mellowed stone from the original
homestead, to be incorporated in the new
buildings ; and there is still the ageless
oak looking out over the achievements
of the modern world.


5
NOW SERVES AUSTRALASIA
ffi
feIKSS
K rrfff
,[ {lretit
II !«““!
ui«““!
mn
L J
In 1792 —around the time of the signing of
the Declaration of Independence—was formed
in Philadelphia (then the capital of the infant
United States) the organisation that today
serves Australia well. It is called the Insurance
Company of North America.
For the past 166 years the now mighty I.N.A.
has brought security through insurance to the
peoples of North America. It now proudly
brings to this country the experience of those
166 years.
Sincere in its beliefs that democracy will
thrive on democratic business operation,
I.N.A. personalises its service to its customers.
I.N.A. policy is prompt claims settlement . . .
and there is an ever-present readiness to
interpret insurance contracts in a spirit of
compromise and reasonableness.
With resources exceeding 867 million dollars,
the protective insurance interests of I.N.A.
range from the largest possible contracts down
to luggage protection while you travel.
I.N.A. offers insurance cover for General
Household policies (home and contents, and
personal effects). Small Business policies (fire
with consequential loss of profits, public risk,
burglary, plate glass, personal accident and
sickness), Marine policies (intrastate, inter-
state and international), Tourist Travel and
luggage protection.
It may well be in your own interest to see how- I.N.A. can serve you.
\WA
1792
INSURANCE COMPANY OF NORTH AMERICA
Incorporated in U.S.A. with limited Liability.
82 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W. BW 4077.
AND AT BRISBANE, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, AUCKLAND, N.Z.


The Wedding
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
The bishop was magnifi-
cent, up there in his
robes, his practised voice
sinking meaningfully,
rising to a mellow thunder,
balancing on grave rotundity ;
the sonorous phrases, responded
to appropriately by the bridal
pair, making their impact on
the smart, dressed-up crowd—
on the bride’s cousin, Wallace
Beaujolais, that elegant, thick-
jyitted playboy, whose neck,
was growing redder, his
shoulders more military, every
minute the ceremony con-
tinued, as Andrew could see
from his back pew, Wallace
being tall and, anyway, con-
spicuous; on the bride’s
mother, the great Lady Beau-
jolais, in her seat-of-honor in
front; on Andrew Masters
himself, soi-disant man of
reason, the not - unkindly
observer of this fashionable
mob, professionally on the
fringe of it but not bound by
its tribal customs, a cautious
sceptic, a lean, young-old man,
tall, but not dramatically tall
like Wallace Beaujolais, slightly
bald, with thoughtful, hooded
grey eyes in a rather bony,
rigorously clean-shaven face,
sitting beside Dorothy Perkins
the social writer. Sitting bolt
upright, pleasantly uncomfort-
able in morning-dress.
Andrew Masters was a junior
partner in the legal firm that
had looked after Beaujolais
business for several generations,
and for that reason, and also
because of the accident of
childhood association (his
father, a junior partner himself
then, had bought some land in
the heart of the Beaujolais
country, trying his hand at
gentlemanly, weekend farm-
ing), Andrew was almost a
friend of the family ; or, per-
haps, as Lady Beaujolais, in
her feudal way, was apt to see
it, some sort of privileged,
superior servant.
Not that Andrew cared, par-
ticularly, what status Lady
Beaujolais had assigned him.
The only person seriously put-
out had been the senior partner,
who, in Sir Lionel’s lifetime,
had handled the important
bulk of the Beaujolais legal
business, and who had been
told, very sweetly, that from
now on Lady Beaujolais pre-
ferred to deal with “Young
Andrew. Because, you see,
I’ve known him since he was a
boy”—clinched by the smile
that had caused Scotch ghillies,
Venetian gondoliers, London
bobbies and Sydney taxi-
drivers to capitulate in their
time.
The senior partner capitu-
lated, although he could well
have pointed out that all it
boiled-down to was a certain
duplication of work, his and
Andrew’s. Because anything of
particular importance would be
referred to him, anyway. He
was a man truly learned in the
law, and in the branch of law
which had most bearing on
the management of the Beau-
jolais estates he was a recog-
nised authority. A man in the
prime of his legal usefulness,
a proud man and a distin-
guished one, he yet bent to
Lady Beaujolais’s whim.
Outside the grey doorway of


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,;
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months* subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—-j
NAME
ADDRESS
r. ........ • ••»•• .-nr.t.'.
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; £ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to. country cheques «
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
the old stone church the sky
was clearing in sweeps of blue,
the grass was a tender green
tinged with yellow, the brown,
shale-freckled soil had turned
dark from the morning’s rain,
beads of water clung to the
shining wire stretching tautly
from the churchyard with its
rearing, mossy mementoes of
dead Beaujolais brides and
bridegrooms, dead retainers,
east, north and west to the
river, to the blue foothills, to
infinity, fencing Beaujolais
land ; suspended water sparkled
in a cobweb, a complex of tiny
jewels—the sun was to shine
on this bride, the fair Beau-
jolais daughter, after all —and
the press-photographers waited.
TAorothy Perkins dabbed
her eyes with a handker-
chief ; not for effect, Andrew
felt sure. Dorothy prided her-
self on being hardboiled.
What was there about wed-
dings that made women howl,
Andrew wondered, looking
cautiously over his collar at
Dorotny: a graceful, still-
attractive woman in her
thirties, and, once you pene-
trated her rather metallic
charm, the career-woman’s
tool-of-trade, an honest and
pleasant person. Was it a pang
for their lost youth?
But Dorothy, even when
young, could hardly have
been as lovely as Barbara Beau-
joiais now was, at nineteen,
fair and slim in white, white
satin and lace, the virginal and
sacrificial white, being married
by a bishop to that dark ogre
Harold Rogers ; poor devil.
And that, too, perhaps, was
a part of Dorothy’s grief—the
cosmic and convulsive grief of
women, beneath the unruffled
surface of ordinary, sensible
women, lying waiting to shatter
the mirror of habit into a thou-
sand jagged pieces; there, he
suspected, beneath Dorothy’s
few tears —a reflection of old
dreams, a shadow, so to speak,
of light, of every young girl’s
picture of herself in bridal
white, triumphant, the fairest
of the fair. And the ugly clash
with things - as - they - are ;
with worse, things - as - they -
really-had-been; jangling the
nerves of the woman with an
ordinary, pot-bellied, earth-
bound husband and the love-
less spinster alike.
On the whole, perhaps he
had been wise not to marry. It
would be hard, surprising that
look in a wife’s eyes. But they
couldn’t keep away from wed-
dings, the silly creatures.
“It’s a shame!” Dorothy
whispered fiercely, and he knew
she meant it was a shame that
Barbara Beaujolais, so young
and fair, was throwing herself
away on a man like Rogers.
But he knew, too, that there
was a deeper cause for fierce-
ness and unrest in Dorothy.
Sometimes he wished he knew
less about people. It wasn’t
comfortable, that sensation of
watching people innocently
undressing in front of a
window ; not when you liked
them.
He liked and respected
Dorothy. In a totally different
way he liked Barbara ; a mix-
ture of familiarity—after all,
he had known her as a small,
rather dirty child —and half-
astonished admiration, of the
kind he felt for such phe-
nomena as lightning on the
mountains, a blood-horse gal-
loping, a yacht racing with
crowded sails, a breaking wave
. . . Oh, yes, she was wild
as that husband of hers would
find out; as he had found out,
he corrected himself, glancing
at Wallace’s guardee shoulders.
He didn’t like Wallace.
Admitted, she was wild.
Some of the women here
could probably find a harsher
word without really trying.
Rogers, the other night at
Wallace’s flat, had found
several, all of them unpleasant.
But then Rogers, taken all
round, was an unpleasant man.
Andrew’s firm lips compressed,
thinking of Rogers’s un-
pleasantness. Some of it he
had encountered sorting out
the affairs of clients who had
become involved in Rogers’s
interlocking organisations.
Nothing outside the letter of
the law ; nothing like that, as
far back as he had been able to
trace Rogers’s history, which
wasn’t far; but sharp ; sharp
and hard ; in fact, not at all
the sort of man you would
want a girl like Barbara to
marry, for all he was rich as
Croesus.
Wild . . . but she had other
qualities. She was brave —re-
member her, as a kid, with the
horses? She was gay. Looked
at from a slightly different
angle, gaiety and courage could
both be ingredients of, if not
contributing causes to, her
wildness so-called. She was
also, of course, beautiful,
which gave all these qualities
significance—the world was
probably full of brave and gay
but plain women, and no one
gave them a second thought.
But she was also kind, not a
dominant trait in the Beaujolais
family. Lady Beaujolais was
determinedly charitable, ac-
cording to her lights, and
charming, but that was poles
apart from Barbara’s warm,
human kindliness.
The others, Bar b a r a’s
brothers and sisters, weren’t
remarkable for kindness, either.
He hadn’t seen much of them
for years. Kindness, perhaps,
had led Barbara to take-up
with Rogers in the first place
—he must have seemed pretty
much an outsider to her, then.
T>ut hold hard ; wasn’t he
being a bit sentimental in
his estimate of Barbara?
Mightn’t she be, for all the evi-
dence he had to the contrary,
a perfect little bitch? And
wasn’t it perhaps time, now
she was being married before
his eyes, he took stock of his
own feelings about the girl?
Were they, after all, quite as
big-brotherly as he liked to
pretend? Could he honestly
say he had never felt sexually
attracted to her?
Honestly, he couldn’t. In
fact, now he came to think
about it, there had been one
or two signs, a couple of years
{Continued on page 56)
THISTLES
Within this drooping coterie
(Each head a spiky puff
Of negligible stuff)
Our grim forefathers take their ease
Upon the land they stole so easily.
Observe the knowledgeable heads
(Waste matter lolling on
A twisted, skeleton)
Shifting in the wind above
A sea of barren yellows and parched reds.
Sere gentlemen, all flesh is grass
(Whether the rising green
Or straws of what has been)
And thistle-heads grace any kind
Of neck while steady generations pass.
So let your conversation be
Tuned to no carping strains;
And may these autumn plains
Give point to any argument
That stirs your brown and withered coterie.
VICTORIA.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE.


DREAM OF THE ORIENT EXPRESS
By JOHN LAFFIN
"Ever read Maurice Dekobra’s raging
best-seller of the Jazz Age, Madonna
of the Sleeping-Cars, which adults hid
from adolescents and only read them-
selves when shielded by a magazine?
1 was an adolescent, but somehow I
got hold of the book and panted over
it page by page. For a long time I was
haunted by the final picture of the lovely
and delightfully wicked Lady Diana
Wynham, the madonna herself, boarding
the Orient Express at the Gare de l'Est
for some new sensuous adventure.
She was followed by many other
fictional heroes and heroines who met
their destiny and/or just deserts on the
Orient Express, and by 1950 Hollywood
had made it the only true road to
amorous and other adventures. Because
of all this 1 approached my journey with
more than a tingle of anticipation.
The departure of the train from Gare
de Lyon, Paris, was spectacular enough.
The locomotive was a great, gleaming
thing, and the carriages carried romantic
name, I think, was Seliman? Where were
the spies and femmes fatales, the foreign
diplomats and the rakish Army officers?
With waiters in white jackets, the rasp
of loudspeakers, the babble of foreign
tongues and the trolly-loads of flowers
the setting was right.
But some of the ingredients were
missing.
Where was the beautiful, seductive
Lady Diana? Where was the devilishly
handsome and sinister prince, whose
name, I think, was Selima-n? Where
were the spies and femmes fatales, the
foreign diplomats and the rakish Army
officers?
I did see a tall young man with a
beard, but he looked more like a student
of philosophy than a drug-runner or a
white-slaver. There were women who
looked like housewives, a giggle of
schoolgirls and a gaggle of American
tourists, bewildered and quite unadven-
turous. There was a whole flock of
tired businessmen and a few priests.
Maybe they were merely disguised as
priests, but I doubt it.
Perhaps the Lady Diana was already in
her compartment, wallowing in orchids
and veiled in smoke from Turkish
cigarettes. She would be in a negligee as
she sipped a Martini and had her hand
kissed by a colonel from Budapest.
Lady Diana did not appear in the
dining-car, but of course she would take
her meals on a tray in her compartment.
My table-companions were the bearded
young man, who didn’t once look up
from a book called Psychiatric Com-
plexities, two Frenchmen who talked
heatedly about Algeria, and a hard-faced
blonde who was using a toothpick in
either hand.
Perhaps when night fell the Lady
Diana would emerge from her compart-
ment for an assignation with an inter-
national financier.
I walked along the train, but no
woman of compelling beauty and plead-
ing, fearful eyes accosted me. I saw
nobody except a woman weighing at
least 18st. We were moving in
opposite directions, and because of her
girth we couldn’t pass. Eventually I
backed down the passageway and into
the toilet while the fat lady, a German I
think, passed me. I slept with one ear open,
but nobody knocked at my door —not
even Peter Lorre or Sidney Greenstreet.
Perhaps the fair Diana would board
the train at Lausanne and go on to
Venice or Athens, but at breakfast next
morning an English businessman who
travelled frequently on the Express put
me right. “By the time the Express
reaches Milan,” he said, “it looks like
a milk-train. All these carriages are
broken-off, one b v y one, and sent off to
their various destinations. An Express
of only three carriages reaches Athens.”
“Have you ever seen Lady Diana
Wynham aboard?” I asked.
“Beg pardon?”
“Lady Diana Wynham? Or Prince
Seliman?”
“No,” he said. “Can't say I have.
That type travels by air these days.”
That was it, of course. Lady Diana
had simply changed her mode of trans-
port. Still, as I left the Express at
Lausanne a dream was dying.
My stay in Liechtenstein, though in-
teresting, is hardly relevant to this yarn,
but an incident in the town-square of
Vaduz completes it. I was taking coffee
in the sun with Chief of Police Schlink
(he controls a police-force of six men)
when I saw a remarkably beautiful
woman several tables away. She wore
her 40. years, dark glasses, blonde hair
and long cigarette-holder with great poise
and provocation.
I asked Schlink who she was. “I believe
that she was once an Intelligence-agent,”
he said, “but now she lives in Vaduz and
owns a tourist-shop.”
He introduced me to the fraulein
(probably a courtesy-title) and eventually
I got around to asking her if she had
ever travelled on the Orient Express.
“Many times,” she said. She smiled
faintly, just like the Lady Diana ; she
was remembering those passionate and
dangerous moments, reawakening a
yearning to return to her adventurous
trade on that romantic train. 1 waited
for her to speak. She said: “It is a dirty,
uncomfortable train and a dull journey,
is it not?”
It is a sad thing for a dream to die.
SAU'DI ARABIAN BROTHERHOOD
By “ABDUL ASSIZ”
In pre-oil days, which for Sau’di Arabia
means before 1940, the country’s archi-
tecture consisted almost entirely of
palaces and hovels, both constructed of
mud. The palace was distinguished from
the hovel only by its size and by the
fact that the bareness and filth of the
walls and of the mud floor was osten-
tatiously relieved by Persian carpets.
c 4-u t
Even in t e g w r ’ . P .
oil period, although Western customs had
made some impact the plumbing was a
compromise to put ,t mildly-and the
characteristic smell of the East was all-
peivading.
In such surroundings—once they had
left the perfumed shelter of the harem
the male offspring of Abdul Aziz ibn
Sa’ud were brought-up. They numbered,
probably, over a hundred, and the old
man “recognised” 36 of them. Apart
from learning the Koran from cover to
cover and by heart, they w'ere given little
of what would qualify as formal educa-
tion in the West. However, they were
allotted plenty of slaves, of both sexes,
and they were trained in sword- and
dagger-play and camel-nding and desert-
craft. Any form of manual work was,
of course, below their dignity.
As Arabs go, the royal household was
rich. Ibn Sa’ud exploited the annual
Haj (or pilgrimage to Mecca) to the full,
and by taxation, excessive charges for
transport, food and water, the pilgrims
to Mecca were fleeced, to their last golden
sovereign. Most of this gold found its
way into the private coffers of the House
of Saud ; it still forms the basis of the
Saudi-Arabian currency.
With the advent of oil, the royal
income jumped, almost overnight, to
around £5O-million annually ; it is now
well over £ 100-million in Australian
currency.
Late in 1953, at the estimated age of
73 —and physically a mere shadow of
the Abdul Aziz who had truly earned
the title of “The Lion of the Desert”—
the old king died, naming his senior
son Sa’ud, then just over 50, as his
successor. The choice was in some ways
unexpected, as Sa’ud had little stomach
for fighting and the rigors of desert life,
on which his father had set such store.
The memory of the old man’s wrath,
however, stifled any criticism, although
many Arabs had hoped that the 48-year-
old Feisal, who was a warrier versed
in desert-craft, would have occupied
the throne. Probably a cogent reason
for the preferment of Sa’ud was that
Feisal had only one wife ; this, to the
Arab mind, suggests a lack of virility.
This year, by a series of manoeuvres
of the completely indirect type so beloved
in Arab diplomacy, Feisal at 54 assumed
the reins of Government.
It is questionable whether the change
in rulers will bring any advantage to the
nations whose efforts and skills have
provided the House of Sa’ud with its
fabulous wealth. Feisal is considered to
have Communist and pro-Nasser lean-
ings, and has already spoken in
support of the Arab League. My own
feeling is that the new king is far
too intelligent and crafty to show his
real intentions. In this he will b©
aided by the flexibility of Arabic, which
—both in speech and writing—is one of
the finest vehicles invented by man for
the purpose of obfuscation.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Sydney Spring Hopes
Prince Darius is well for-
ward for his race against
Tulloch in next Saturday’s
£l5OO w.-f.-a. Warwick Stakes
(seven furlongs), judging by his
brilliant galloping display be-
tween races on Saturday. He
moved freely over seven fur-
longs, the last three in 36sec.
with the pressure on. Tulloch
also has galloped well at
Randwick, is bigger and
brighter now, and there’s no
doubt the clash between these
two will draw a big crowd to
the Warwick Farm course next
Saturday. Tulloch has already
won £66,148, 'and maybe on
Saturday he will depose Rising
Fast (£66,765) from second
place to Redcraze (£71,481) as
the greatest winner in Australia
and New Zealand.
Kingster was preferred to
Tulloch in the Warwick Stakes
last August, but had to be
content with third money,
Tulloch beating Prince Jambo
a neck, with Kingster three
lengths away. Time, 1.25 J-, was
ordinary for this event, as over
the past 20 years 11 of its
winners went faster than
Tulloch, with best time (1.24)
credited to Tarien in 1954,
when she beat a top field, with
Prince Cortauld and Carioca in
the minor places. Tarien had
also won the race the previous
year in 1.24}. El Khobar’s
1.24-1/10 was another fast
seven ; the course-record, 1.231,
•is held by Carioca (April, 1954).
Limerick had three successes in
the Stakes (1927-28-29); dual
winners, in addition to Tarien,
were Johnnie Jason, Chatham
and San Domenico.
As a jockey, Darby Munro,
now doing pretty well as a
Randwick trainer, landed no
fewer than six winners of the
Warwick Stakes Rogilla
(dead-heat), Allunga, Beaulivre,
Katanga, Removal and Tarien
(1954). Ted Bartle and M.
McCarten each had three wins,
and N. Seilwood also has had
three, with Tulloch coming up
as his mount next Saturday.
The Epsom, Derby and
Metropolitan picture was
made no clearer by last Satur-
day’s racing at Warwick Farm.
Squander Lad winner of
eight races to date, latest being
the Campbelltown Handi-
cap at the Farm —has shown
ability at up to 7} furlongs.
He beat a number of Epsom
candidates on Saturday, carry-
ing 8.9, or 61b. more than his
Epsom weight. The five-year-
old could easily run a solid
mile at this stage of his career.
The minor placegetters in
the Campbelltown Handicap—
Chieti and Troy —could have
sound prospects in the Epsom.
Both have won at a mile at
Randwick. Chieti (second)
carried 8.4, and drops to 7.12,
“Call me that again and you'll be stepping outside!"
while Troy’s 8.3 was 51b. more
than his Epsom impost. Both
horses finished with dash, the
six furlongs a little short for
them. Royal Kingdom’s fourth
was also full of promise.
Having his first start since
beating a few home in Tatter-
sail’s Cup at Randwick in May,
sound stayer Monte Carlo
finished strongly in third place
to Coal in the Warwick Farm
August Handicap. Monte
Carlo carried 9.9 —61b. more
than he has in the Metropoli-
tan (October 6). He was one
of the last couple rounding
the home-turn, but finished
only about two lengths from
Coal. The winner carried 7.1,
and improved on her third
placing to Sailor Gay at Canter-
bury, . where, however, she
carried 8.8. Monte Carlo, dual
Derby winner, has shown
excellent winning - form at
Randwick.
Coal is handicapped at 7.1
for the Metropolitan, and she
could be a lightweight show,
The stable will give her
another middle-distance start
before deciding on a run in
the mile-and-five, which pos-
sibly may be too far for the
five-year-old mare; her longest
race-win to date was over the
lOf-furlongs course on Satur-
day. She is by Golden Chance
(imp,) from Frescetta by
Fresco (imp.) from Blue Jay
by Pantheon (imp.). Her sire
won races in England at up to
14- mile, while her bloodlines
on the dam’s side include two
noted stayers, Amounts (Caul-
field Cup) and Piastre (Mel-
bourne Cup). At 90gns. as a
yearling, Coal must be one of
the best sale-ring bargains now
racing.
Bookmakers apparently had
doubts about Wiggle being at
her best for the Hobartville
Stakes. Overnight the cham-
pion three-year-old filly was
quoted at her opening price on
the course —even money. She
eased to 7 to 4, touching 2 to 1.
She started at 6 to 4, but even
that price must have astounded
stay-at-home punters. She
landed the money in a style
that left no further doubt
about her.
Bold P4o.t, third to Wiggle
in the Hobartville, should be
improved by the run, as should
Skyline, second in the same
sprint. Man of Iron was the
big disappointment.
Woolsack, winner of the
Second Three-year-old Handi-
cap, handed out a sound per-
formance, his second success
in his last three starts. He
could go on to better things.
He’s another by Judicate
(imp.), a winner at two miles,
one furlong, and is from
Session, winner of the V.R.C.
Oaks and A.J.C. Adrian Knox
Stakes.
Progeny of Achilles are
winning their share of races,
and to the list was added Sir
Chiron, when, at Canterbury
Park, he narrowly defeated
Royal Bloom and Thesaurus in
the Second Maiden. A member
of the big team trained by Jack
Denham, the four-year-old
horse cost lOOOgns. as a year-
ling. His dam, Quartilla, is by
Gold Nib (imp.) from Chorine
by Actor (Fr.). Kahonji, winner
of the First Maiden, is also a
four-year-old ; he’s by Prince
Goldsborough (imp.) from
Lindist by Scientist from
Lindisfarne by Waikare.
Rosebery trainer Les
O’Rourke, though he hasn’t
lately had much luck at Sydney
metropolitan meetings, is pro-
ducing good winners at pro-
vincial fixtures, including a
double at the latest Gosford
fixture with Moon Raider and
Sea Fog, both ridden by stable-
apprentice Keith Smith. Moon
Raider is a four-year-old
Persian Book (imp.) gelding,
and Sea Fog a four-year-old
gelding by Transatlantic (imp.).
* * *
At Flemington
Looking ahead to the spring
carnival, there was not much
consolation for Victorian race-
goers in the first w.-f.-a. event
of the season at Flemington,
the seven-furlongs J. J. Liston
Stakes. It confirmed that the
big N.Z.-bred Lord is a first-
class sprinter, but it also sug-
gested that when the w.-f.-a.
events are decided over a bit of
ground the Victorian-trained
runners will be no match for
the best inter-State visitors.
Lord’s performance wa9
remarkable. He dwelt slightly
at the barrier, found it hard
to hit his true gait in the sloppy
conditions, and, until the field
straightened-up, he looked
hopeless. Down the long
straight, however, the big-
striding gelding raced right
through the field to win easily.
It was Lord’s third in a row.
He has had eight wins from


Between
Ourselves
&
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A "must” for all
housewives—if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COUKT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—Is Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO JAMES KIDD late of Wallsend in
the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that JANET KIDD has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1977 of 1958
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under Section 19
(2) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 29th October 1958 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from R. S. Woodgate, Solicitor, 44
King Street, Newcastle. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
TO JACK BALL formerly of Claremont
in the State of Western Australia. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife MABEL
BLANCHE BALL has commenced pro-
ceedings against you in Die Supreme
Court of Western Australia for Divorce
on the ground of desertion by you for a
continuous period of three years or more.
IF you desire to defend such proceedings
you must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within FORTY clear days from the date
of this publication In default of your
so doing the cause may proceed and the
Court will pronounce judgment and
make orders against you in your absence,
DATED this 20th day of August 1958.
—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
18 starts, for £7825 stake-
money.
• * • *
Lord may have his next run
in the nine-furlongs, £3OOO
Memsie Stakes at Caulfield on
Sept. 6, and it will be interest-
ing to see if he can get that
distance. His sire, Targui, was
successful up to 11 furlongs in
France.
» » * *
Consistent Young Idealist
did best of the rest to finish
second in the Liston, but the
run was not good enough for
a potential Epsom Handicap
winner. Actually, it was a
sprinters’ field in this year’s
Liston, which is not usually the
case. In recent years it had
been won by stayers who could
sprint at this early stage of
their spring preparation. Some
of Victoria’s best w.-f.-a. horses
have won the Liston —Chic-
quita, Ellerslie and Cromis
among them. Last year Syntax
began his successful campaign
in this race.
• • • •
One of the few trainers not
looking forward to the instal-
lation of starting-stalls at
Flemington —due in October —
is Theo Lewis, who has charge
of the promising Fire Foam,
winner of the mile Montrose
Handicap at Flemington. At
his first start in a race, at
Moonee Valley last November,
Fire Foam struck his head on
the gate of his stall and has
since shown a natural dislike
for the mobile barrier. At
Caulfield a fortnight ago he
staged a rodeo act when
attendants forced him into a
stall. He is under threat of
being banned if he repeats the
performance. From the open
barrier at Flemington he be-
haved perfectly. Always near
the lead, he showed real
promise to clear away in the
run home. A Resurgent-Loch
Derg gelding, he has now had
a win and two placings from
four starts. Lewis rates him
a Derby chance, and that
trainer is not given to over-
optimism. Victorian Football
League president Ken Luke
owns Fire Foam in partnership
with J. Dixon.
-* • • ft
Sir Blink ran in the Mont-
rose, and was again rather
disappointing. However, he
was finishing-on in fifth place,
and he was set a severe task to
carry 9.9 in the heavy going.
He will have one more chance
to earn a start in the A.J.C.
Derby.
Probably the most satisfied
owners at Flemington last
Saturday were the Adelaide
couple C. Barry-Murphy and
his wife ; joint-owners of
Demeter, they flew across to
see their filly score a most im-
pressive win in the seven-
furlongs Berwick Handicap for
fillies. They hope to win with
her the Edward Manifold
Stakes, the fillies’ race at
Flemington in October, which
Barry - Murphy won with
Colinga in 1952. Demeter is
entered for all the fillies’ classic
races during the spring carni-
val, and should have an excel-
lent chance in all *of them.
After suffering a check in the
straight on Saturday she was
pulled wide, and raced right
away from the opposition. It
was the performance of a
stayer. She had won twice in
Adelaide.
• • • •
Magic Nib’s best distance
up to now has been a mile, over
which journey he scored in the
first Members’ Highweight at
Flemington. He fought on so
doggedly, though, that the
display of courage gave owner
W. Balloch the hope that, with
only 8.2 to carry, the six-year-
old chestnut could get the mile-
and-a-haif of the Caulfield Cup.
Stable-apprentice Stan Paul
rode Magic Nib very well on
Saturday.
A mare that has improved
steadily in class over the past
few r months, Double Entry has
now won six of her last nine
races —consistent form by any
reckoning. She ran the best
race of her career to win the
second Members’ Highweight
with the greatest of ease. A
pleasing feature of the win
was that her trainer, George
Cousens, was at the course to
saddle her up; he’d had a
long spell in hospital, and the
mare’s win was a happy return
to work for him. Double Entry
is by successful N.Z. sire Count
Rendered from Brideloch.
* * ♦
The Trots
The 17,000-odd at Harold
Park last Friday night saw
Sporting Blood—s-to-4 favorite
in the Third Qualifying Stakes
—get away badly, run last for
two laps and still be a hopeless
second-last at the “bell,” though
he made up a lot of ground
in the last lap to finish fourth.
He was the third favorite to
lose in the first three races.
Walla Spring landed the money
by five lengths, from Justin’s
Pride and Friscoway. The
previous week Walla Spring
had finished seventh in a
similar event, after a slow
beginning. Running sixth at
the “bell” on Friday night, he
was pulled out and sprinted
round the field to take the lead
opposite the Leger, going on
to a very convincing win. The
stewards questioned both
drivers, issued a warning to
Picken (Sporting Blood) and
deferring the inquiry about
Walla Spring until next Satur-
day night.
A grand performance was
registered by First Kiss in the
Leichhardt Handicap. Begin-
ning smartly and taking the
lead shortly after the start,
First Kiss started to move
away from the field in the
second lap, increasing his lead
with every stride, to pass the
post 30 lengths in front of
Coronation Scott, who beat
Lord Elskley by a long neck.
First Kiss (favorite at 2 to 1
on) had a mile rating of 2.9},
the best time of the night.
The Harold Park Handicap
was won by Scottish Brigade
by five lengths from New
Memory and Fire Chief.
Bannalagh shot to the front
with two furlongs to go, and
had a clear lead by a couple
of lengths halfway up the
straight. At that point he
stumbled, nearly throwing
driver Wilkins from the gig.
Maestro’s Melody was pocketed
at a vital stage, but finished
fast.
* * *
“P.0.M.C.”: At a luncheon
N.S.W. Premier Cahill
remarked that the absence of
bookmakers on American race-
courses robbed the sport of
the carnival aspect of Aus-
tralian race-meetings. Well,
I’ve regularly attended race-
meetings around Sydney for 38
years, but I have never en-
countered merrymaking book-
makers driving dull care away
or lending jollification to the
festivities —even when despised
bolters bob-up. Anyhow,
“carnival” doesn’t properly
apply—both from the Sydney
Government’s and bookmakers’
angles, the right word is
“harvest.”
* * *
Other Sports
The last V.F.L. home-and-
home round produced its sen-
sations. Collingwood, though
beaten at home in a tense and
fiery game by a determined
North 14.17-12.16, held on to
second place and the double-
chance when Fitzroy also went
down. Hawthorn just got there
by four points, 11.9-10.11, with
’Roy attacking strongly as the
siren sounded last round
Hawthorn lost by two points
to South, while ’Roy beat Carl-
ton by five points. North, by
its win, made the finals, and
deserved to do so, though
Essendon, which a few weeks
ago had seemed to have the
edge on the Kangaroos, must
be accounted a bit unlucky to
miss. On Saturday, in a game
of football at its best, Essendon
just beat a rejuvenated Rich-
mond 16.13-15.11, fighting
back after Richmond had raced
away to a 7.0-2.3 first-quarter
lead. Melbourne only just
managed Footscray 10.18-8.11,
Carlton came from behind to
beat inaccurate South 12.11-
10.21, and St. Kilda declawed
Geelong Cats 16.15-5.8. On
Saturday Fitzroy plays North,
loser to sit-out the rest of the
season.
“Regel”: Essendon’s com-
plaint that North was playing
19 men (B. 20/8/’5B) recalls an
incident of 50 years ago in


Divorce Notices
in theTsupkeme court of new
SOUTH WALKS— In Divorce.
TO PAUL GEORGE NICHOLSON late
of 16 Princes Street Newport. —TAKE
NOTICE that KEVIN JAMES ELLIOTT
lias filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1762 of 1958 against JUDITH MAR-
GARET ELLIOTT on the ground of. her
adultery with you and is claiming
damages against you in respect thereof
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by 31st October 1958
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from-~MESSHS. CLAYTON,
UTZ & COMPANY, Solicitors, 130
Liverpool Street. Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OE NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO REGINALD LESLIE WILSON late
of 559 Hove 11 Street Albury.—TAKE
NOTICE that JEAN WILSON has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2(583 of
195 S on the ground of habitual drunken-
ness and habitual cruelty for three years
and upwards If you wish ter defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney, by the 29th
October 1958 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from TIETYENS
ANGEL & JACKLING, "Solicitors, of
509 Kiowa Street, Albury.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO HENDRIK GERRIT PRINS formerly
of Safety Bay but now of address un-
known.-—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
RITA MARY PRINS has commenced pro-
ceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for Divorce
on the ground of your entire failure
during a period of three years and up-
wards immediately prior to the com-
mencement of proceedings to make
perodical payments of maintenance for
which you were liable under an order
of a competent Court If you desire to
defend such proceedings you must file
your Defence in the Central Oifice of
the Supreme Court at Perth within
forty (40) clear days from the date of this
•publication In default of your so doing
the case may proceed and the Court
will pronounce judgment and make
orders against you in your absence.
DATED tliis 13th dav of August, 1958.
—J. E. SHILUNGTON, Acting
Registrar.
start Im day riant!
&
Oi
yU^** G
Wm
£#o eB
M
SHA
which North, then an Associ-
ation team, also figured. Then
they did have 19 men afield,
forfeited all points (27) scored,
but won the match. A few
years earlier, in a Collingwood-
Fitzroy clash, ’Wood was being
overpowered in the last quarter
when the captain told the
umpire that ’Roy wasplaying 19
men. By the time it was proved
it wasn’t, ’Wood had had a
spell, and won the match
’Roy’s captain told ’Wood’s he
should be Prime Minister for
thinking of the idea.
“Old Pivot”: When the first
all-Australian Rules carnival
was held in Melbourne in 1908
Geelong (a foundation-member
of the V.F.L., incidentally) had
only one representative, and he
was the captain, Henry Young.
History repealed itself when
Bob Davis, the club’s only rep.
in the team, skippered this
year’s V.F.L, carnival side.
* * *
When three rounds remained
in Sydney’s Rugby Union, four
teams (Manly, Gordon, St.
George and East) were level
on points at the top of the
table, with only one other team,
Randwick, with any chance at
all —and it had to win all its
games while one of the leaders
lost its three games. Though
seemingly improbable, ’Wick
was confident. East seemed
most likely to be cast for the
ousted role (if any team was
to be so cast), as it had to
meet all its co-leaders. On
Saturday East duly lost . its
second successive game, beaten
by Gordon 14-9, but it will
nonetheless play-off with the
other threejn- the finals, even
if it by Manly this
Saturday, for Randwick could
not carry out its own. end of
the bargain, and went down to
St.- George 8-3. In the other
games, none of vital import-
ance, Manly beat North 24-9,
Eastwood, scoring six tries to
one, surprised University 22-17,
and Parramatta paralysed
Drummoyne 24-6.
“Sam”: Rugby Union has
spread widely in Europe in
recent years, and most Euro-
pean countries now play the
code. It has made consider-
able progress in Spain. Last
season Spain was only narrowly
defeated by Italy, which is one
of the strongest European
Rugby Union countries. A
few years ago a Spanish side
also played well in a tour of
England. The code has also
progressed in Rumania, Yugo-
slavia and West Germany.
There are, in fact, more clubs
in Hamburg than in Queens-
land. A tour of Europe by
an Australian team is on the
cards in the near future. A
good deal of Rugby Union is
also played in Argentina,
which would also welcome a
visit from an Australian side.
Two Tests in N.Z. —In Wel-
lington, at Rugby Union, N.Z.
outclassed Australia 25-3,
scoring seven tries to one;
N.Z. fullback Don Clarke did
not have .his best kicking-boots
on, and landed only two goals.
It was a one-sided but, with
both back-lines trying to open-
up play, an interesting game.
The' great N.Z. pack, with All
Black stalwarts like Whineray
and lan Clarke outstanding,
laid the basis for the win....
At Auckland, at Soccer, in the
rain and mud, Australia ar.d
N.Z. played a 2-all draw in the
second of a two - Test
series. Australia won the first
Test, 3-2.
V * *
At the S.C.G. on Saturday
a crowd of 27,985 saw Balmain
eliminate Manly 22-10 in an
exciting first Rugby League
semi-final. Both teams scored
two tries, with the very straight
boot of fullback Keith Barnes
making-up Balmain’s extra 16
points. To get into the finals
Balmain had had to defeat
Newtown in a play-off the
Tuesday before ; it won 15-4,
and six goals from Barnes gave
it that comfortable margin, too.
Despite their two tries each,
Balmain always looked the
better team against Manly ; the
tigerish Tiger forwards, led by
Test front-rower Billy Marsh,
“ate” the Seagulls’ pack. This
Saturday St. George, which
should win, meets West.
“Wilderspool”: English
Rugby League fans are wonder-
ing whether Brian Bevan,
Warrington’s 33-year-old Aussie
winger, will have a rival in
South African Tom Van Vol-
lenhoven, of St. Helens. Bevan,
with a “scalp” of over 600
tries, has beaten man after man
in length-of-the-field runs. A
Sydneysider, Bevan left Aus-
tralia before he’d made a name
for himself, but he was starring
soon after getting to England
—at a time when wingers of
the class of Lionel Cooper,
Nordgren and Ratcliffe were
knocking around. Van Vollen-
hoven, “the flying South
African,” who came to Aus-
tralia with the 1956 Springboks
and then switched over to
League in England, is in his
early twenties. Could be that
he will still be bamboozling
them when he gets to Bevan’s
age ; but the “old man” has a
record that will take some
beating.
“Selja”: Veteran St. George
(Sydney) Rugby League
s.econd-row forward Harry
Bath has set a new club points-
scoring record this year—at the
end of the last premiership
round he’d amassed 205, to
beat former Test-winger Noel
Pidding’s 200 points in 1951 ;
196 of Bath’s points came from
98 goals, which beat the club’s
previous-record 93, kicked by
Doug Fleming in 1955. Bath
has played the last two seasons
with St. George after just on
10 years in England with
Barrow and Warrington clubs ;
he holds Warrington’s total
points - scoring record with
1850 points. Apart from his
goalkicking, he’s still playing
good football, too.
* * *
“Veryl”: Can’t agree, with
“Cliffy” (B. 20/8/’5B) that
scoring in tennis should switch
to the table-tennis method.
That has been tried once or
twice —including, by the profes-
sionals in Australia last
season ; and it was found that
that method did make tennis a
“tiresome” affair —for there
was little interest aroused until
a set began to draw to its
close, some half-an-hour after
its start. Under the present
scoring, interest is kept at a
higher level—unless, of course,
the players themselves are weak
or not interested. Long
“deuce” games are not of them-
selves boring; they can be
really gripping, as, for instance,
they were in the Hoad-Trabert
Davis Cup “marathon” in
1953.
* * *
“A.C.T.”: Architects in
W.A. are urging the State
Government and Perth City
Council to conduct a competi-
tion to select designs for the
Empire Games buildings.
Object, to make the Games
village a model of what such
“villages” should be.
* * *
The annual G.P.S. athletics
meeting will be held at Sydney
Cricket Ground on Saturday,
October 11. It should be as
great a day as any past meet-
ing, with some records likely.
* * *
At Sydney Stadium, George
Barnes, showing glimpses of his
best form, regained the British
Empire welterweight title by
knockin'g-out in the 13th round
South African Johnny Van
Rensburg, who had taken his
title off him at Salisbury
(Rhodesia) in May. Barnes, at
10.6-y, had a 51b. advantage in
weight, but at 31 was five years
on the wrong side. Van Rens-
burg piled-up an early lead on
points, but Barnes was catching
up with him before the k.o.
came a10ng.... At Los Angeles
world heavyweight champion
Floyd Patterson had too many
guns for the game but out-
classed Roy Harris, of Cut and
Shoot (Texas), and did almost
all the cuttin’ and shootin’.


Collectors
Australian in London can supply col-
lectors with service medals and decora-
tions from 1793, British and Foreign ;
also badges, antique pistols, swords and
all types of militaria, including Na/i
items. For list write to BM/NOMAD,
London, W.C.1, stating particular in-
terest. Dealers’ inquiries invited.
KFFP mom SAFEi
SANDERS'
Correspondence, in voic
statements, etc., filed in
"Sanders'* can be securely
bound and converted info
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —or
any other period.
Pr.c
tber information
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agtnli—
MELBOURNE , . Norman Bros. Ply. Ltd.
ADELAIDE . . Vardun Price Ltd
PERTU • Docket Book Co. (Ausi.)
BALD PATCHES
Hair grown secret formula
Sacred Eastern Oils. Rarely
fails. Treats Alopecia. Leading
broadcaster’s liair grown after
years of Baldness. Effective
treatment for dandruff (Basic
cause of nearly all hair sick-
ness). and stop's falling hair.
My herbal treatment restores
grey hair to original colour.
Not a dye—not injurious, not
obvious. Names given of lead-
ing citizens (with their per-
mission) who gratefully testify.
My treatment used in privacy
of your home.
For free advice write—
MRS. A. EASTON,
Box 5204, G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To exchange mint-copy, limited
edition, of Brennan’s Burden of
Tyre-. Fifteen Poems (1953) for
any equivalent item of Australiana,
such as Bulletin publications,
letters or manuscripts.—674o,
Does Anybody Know?
Anything of two old-time vaude-
ville entertainers, John and Kate
Foley, who toured Australia and
N.Z, around 1917? Not the Kate
Foley on the Australian stage in
the 'eighties: Kate and John were
the children of W. H. Foley,
pioneer circus-proprietor.
Information Sought
Can saltpetre be used in burning-
out tree-stumps ?
Neither saltpetre nor any other
chemical is of any, value in the
burning of stumps. Best way to deal
with a stump that burns badly is to
build a good pile of logs and brush
around it, fire in the ordinary way
and cover the burning material,
when well alight, with clay. This
fire will smoulder for some weeks,
and will gradually destroy the
stump.
Occasionally a mixture of con-
centrated acids has been proposed
as a means of destroying a stump.
Any such method is expensive,
ineffective and dangerous to use.
* * * *
Details of the radio-telescope to
be erected at Parkes (N.S.W.) ?
This instrument, to be erected on
the outskirts of Parkes, some 200
miles west of Sydney, is expected
to be the most important of its
kind.
Work on the foundations will
begin later this year ; the radio-
telescope is expected to be ready
for operation by the end of 1961.
Its radio “mirror,” a dish-shaped
bowl 210 ft. in diameter and covered
with wire-mesh, will pick-up radio-
signals from the extreme fringes of
the universe. This great dish will
be supported on a reinforced-
concrete tower ; it is being designed
to point accurately towards any
chosen object in the sky 30deg. or
more above the horizon.
Construction of the telescope has
been made possible by gifts to the
C.5.1.R.0. from the U.S.A.
(£llO,OOO each from the Carnegie
Corporation and the Rockefeller
Foundation) and from private
donors within Australia. Together
with matching contributions from
the Commonwealth Government
the total will be £500,000.
The design is the work of a
British firm of engineering consul-
“I finally persuaded Sir Richard to join us for dinner."
tants, Freeman Fox and Partners,
in consultation with the radiophysics
division of C.5.1.R.0. The tele-
scope’s aerial (210 ft. across) will be
slightly smaller than that of the only
other giant radio-telescope in
existence, at Manchester, England.
Surface-accuracy of the Australian
telescope and the precision with
which it can be pointed and driven
will be substantially greater; it is
likely to be the most advanced and
powerful of its kind in the world.
* ♦ * *
Something about Australian podt
Louis Lavater ?
Born in Melbourne on Mar. 2,
1867, he began a medical course at
Melbourne University, but his
interest turned to music, and he
became a music- and singing-
teacher at Colac (Vic.). He wrote
a lot of church-music, and also
contributed verses and short-stories
to The Bulletin and “Lone Hand.”
In 1913 he returned to Melbourne,
and began to play an important
part in Melbourne’s musical life,
being several times president of the
Musical Society of Victoria and
music-critic for several Victorian
newspapers and journals. He pub-
lished several volumes of verse,
including Blue Days and Grey Days
(1915), and edited The Sonnet in
Australasia (1926), which he later
revised and which was republished
posthumously in 1956. Lavater
composed many songs and part-
songs and some piano-pieces, best-
known of which is “Hornpipe in
G.” Died May 22, 1953.
* * * •
How to convert a single-speed
record-player to four speeds ?
These days, with the great popu-
larity of microgroove recordings,
single-speed players are fast
becoming obsolete. It would there-
fore be best to discard your unit
and buy a new player or changer.
Price for the player ranges from
£l2 10s. for a model AC4/554
Collaro to £57 15s. for a Philips
AG2005. Record-changers cost
from £2O 10s. for a B.S.R.
Monarch to £55 13s. for a Phillips
NGIOO6/01.
These models are available from
most radio-dealers. It is advisable
not to go to the expense of fitting
this equipment unless the radiogram
is a recognised make and fairly
modern.
Some radio-dealers fit a German
dual model 1005 to conversions.
Price for this changer is £37 9s. 6d.
in Sydney; it is the same as the
one fitted to the 400gns. Sabamatic
radiogram.
*** v *
Winner of Taubmans ’ “Family
Home Competition’’?
First-prize (£2000) was awarded
to K. F. Woolley, Flat 2, 36 Kareela
Road, Cremorne, Sydney, and M.
J. Dysart, 9 Macdonald Street,
Potts Point, Sydney.
Provision was made for £5OO to
be awarded to the best entry sub-
mitted from each State apart from
the winning entry.
Prizes for the States are as
follows: Vic. —the joint entry sub-
mitted by Evan H. Walker and
Rex H. James, students of the
School of Architecture, Melbourne
University, Melbourne; Q. —
Brian J. Hodgen, c/o W. Hodgen
and Hodgen, 190 Margaret Street,
Toowoomba ; S.A.—Kevin Hock-
ing, 47 Wakefield Street, Adelaide ;
W.A. —Dennis Silver, 224 St.
Georges Terrace, Perth.
Commenting on the winning
design the assessors said: “The
selection of this design as the
winning entry was decided because
the designers had taken into con-
sideration not only internal domestic
comfort and circulation, but out-
side architectural convenience and
elegance as' well.”
» * * *
What is Australia’s commonest
species of butterfly ?
There are several types found
extensively throughout Australia.
The Brown- Gipsy is one of the
commonest along the east coast;
it is reddish-orange, margined and
lined with black, with a double row
of small white spots around the
wings. Wing-span is 3^in.
Then there’s the Australian
Admiral. 2in. wing-span, with black
forewings blotched with pale yellow;
and the Painted Lady, about the
same size, with a yellow-brown
coloring and four ringed black
spots on the outer portion of the
wings. Both are found nearly all
over Australia, as is the Yellow
Wood Nymph, a slightly larger
type.
Other common butterflies are the
Small Yellow and the Common
White, the latter often appearing
in great swarms around Sydney, and
the Orchard Butterfly, a swallojv-
tail variety, which feeds on young
cirrus-trees. Another widespread
flitter is the Wattle Blue, 2in. wing-
span, a black-colored butterfly with
centres of both pairs of wings a
bright metallic blue.
S * * * •
(1) 7s the cattle-tick indigenous to
Australia? (2) What is its distri-
bution ? (3) Books on the
subject ? ,
(1) The cattle-tick is not indi-
genous to Australia ; it was intro-
duced at Darwin in 1872 on cattle
from the Dutch East Indies.
O It has a widespread distribu-
tion in the Northern Territory,
Queensland, and the north-western
part of Western Australia. In the
Territory it has extended as far
south as Lake Nash on lat. 21deg.
south. In Queensland it occurs in
the Gulf country and east of the
Great Dividing Range. In N.S.W.
the parasite is confined to the Far
North Coast, covering an area of


Lethal Notice
LOUIS ELLISON- (or ELLERSON or
ELLER THEN) late of Annandale in tlie
State of New South Wales Australia
Deceased died on 21st. Jtuio 1933 for-
merly a resident of (Queensland and of
Western Australia mav have been born
in Norway.—PURSUANT to a Decretal
Order of the Supreme Court of New
South Wales in its Equitable Jurisdic-
tion dated the 28th day of July 1939
and made in Suit No. 140 of 1938 en-
titled “Tn the matter of the estate of
LOWS ELLISON formerly of Annan-
dale near Sydney in the State of New
South Waies Gentleman deceased ;
BETWEEN WILFRED BRUCE DIVE
and JOSHUA GLASS .Plaintiffs and
HER MAJESTY’S A T T O R N E Y-
GENERAL FOR NEW SOUTH WALES.
Defendant,” whereby the following' en-
quiry was dfrectetd namely, that it he
referred to the Master iir Equity to
enquire 'and ascertain who are the
persons entitled by virtue of the Wills
I’robate and Administration Act ISOB
and the Statute of Distributions or
otherwise io the estate of the above-
named LOUIS ELLISON (or ELLERSON
or ELLERTSEN) deceased other than
and except the legacy that has already
been paid out thereof and whether any
of them are since dead and if so who are
their respective legal personal represen-
tatives if am 1 in the State of New
South Wales' NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN that all persons claiming to be
entitled under the said, enquiries are
to send bv post prepaid to MESSRS.
ROBILLIARD & ROBILLIARD, Soli-
citors, 21 George Street, Parramatta,
New South Wales so as to reach them
on or before the 14th day of November,
1958, their full Christian and surnames
addresses and descriptions and full par-
ticulars of their claims or in default
thereof they will be excluded from the
.benefit of the said Decretal Order unless
the Court or a Judge thereof or the
Master in Equity on application other-
wise orders. Claimants are to attend
personally or by Solicitor or Counsel
before the Master in Equity at " the
Supreme Court, Elizabeth Street, Syd-
ney, on the Bth day of December, 1955,
at 11 o’clock; in the forenoon being the
time appointed for adjudicating upon
the claims and must then be prepared
to prove their claim by proper legal
evidence. A claimant not residing in
New' South Wales must send with the
particulars of his or her claim the name
and address of a person in New South
Wales to whom notice to the claimant
Can bo sent. Claimants are advised to
send their particulars of claim by two
Air Mails, at an interval of three or
four days.—DATED this Seventh day
August, 1958.—ROBILLIARD & ROBIL-
LIARD, Solicitors, 21 George Street,
Parramatta, New South Wales, Solicitors
for the abovenamed Plaintiff, WILFRED
BRUCE DIVE.
jF'aim dm ihe
m
W>:
One of the educations of travel abroad these
days is' to see the amazing number of people who
are travelling.
The lounges of every major airport are
crowded. Along the reception halls of the airport
buildings rows of offices carry the colours and names
of the many international lines. And there are
quite a few to choose from; the air traffic of the
world has become highly competitive.
In the great cities of Europe busloads of
passengers are seen coming and going in well-
appointed coaches that often bear the name of
countries far across the Continent. The scene is
repeated at ports where passenger liners berth.
The world travel industry is enjoying an
animated prosperity.
It is good. then, to know that Australia is setting
out to attract more of the tourist traffic to our own
country, a’nd that this interest is being taken up on
the Federal plane as well as by the several States.
A well-planned and sustained tourist
campaign for Australia is certainly called for now.
More people are moving round the world than ever
before. Rapid advances in the types of aircraft to
be used will be shortening still further the time-
distance between the continents. The great shipping
lines are extending their passenger services in the
Pacific.
The timing is right. But. to realise our hopes
of putting Australia properly on the international
tourist map, it is plain that much more than scenery
and climate will have to be served to those who
visit us.
An internal transport system that will cater
specially for tourist needs is a positive essential.
So also .is the raising of hotel accommodation to
world tourist standards.
A third requisite is the development, at every
point of reception and contact, of a sense of service
at least equal to that which distinguishes every
successful national tourist industry in the world.
Given these—and they are all within the
capacity of Australian enterprise—l see boundless
possibilities in our building of a great and thriving
tourist trade.
y
som& 7000 sq. miles. In W.A. the
Kimberleys area is infested.
(3) The cattle-tick is dealt with
in “Diseases of Domestic Animals
in Australia, ’’ Part Three. This is
a Service Publication (Division ot
Veterinary Hygiene) Number Seven,
Department of Health, Common-
wealth of Australia. Another
reference to cattle-tick is in Dr.
F. H. S. Roberts's “Insects affect-
ing Livestock with special reference
to Important Species occurring in
Australia.’ 7 Angus and Robertson,
1952.
Brief Answers
H. 8.: Common salt (NaCl) to
which iodide-of-potash has been
added is a safe and effective method
of administering iodine in goitrous
areas. It can be used with safety
for those not liable to goitre, and
is of value in preventing goitre
in those who are. The concentra-
tion of iodide-of-potash in this salt
is roughly one part in 20,000....
T.R.: It all depends ; might be
safest to face the initial outlay and
get a large number printed....
W.M.: Write Melbourne Racing
Club, 491 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
B.R.: Nearest aboriginal words
are Apalka, dream; Endoora,
dream, spirit ancestor; Wanyiti,
lull to sleep; Wingara, dream, time
when mythical ancestors lived;
Wirrinya and Yinthina, sleep....
P.D.M. :(1) Yes. An R.A.A.F. air-
field in World War 11, named after
Squadron-Leader Truscott, was
situated in the Kimberleys (W.A.).
(2) The U.S.A.F. and the R.A.A.F.
used the same airfields in Northern
Australia, v - although in several
instances the Americans built strips
used exclusively by them —though
there was never any suggestion that
the R.A.A.F. must not use them.
13) Write H. R. Rayner. R.A.A.F.
Public Relations Officer. Box 4131,
G.P.0., Sydney.. ..C.D.M.: Sorry,
address not known.. . .E.D.: A. H.
Hattersley’s, Ltd., 45 Murray
Street, Pyrmont, Sydney, is" the only
firm using stone-grinding for milling-
purposes in N.S.W. As far as is
known, there is no windmill-driven
mill in Australia. But there is one
water-mill in S.A. . Contact the
Millers Producers Co. of S.A.,
Ltd., Industrial Building, King
William Street, Adelaide; they may
have some further useful informa-
tion.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
leturnea unless stamps accom-
pany- MSS. slto-uid be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered jor publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the 'Editor
thinks necessary.
J.N.: A little rusty... .P.M.:
Rewrite in third-person.,. .G.G.L.:
Too loaded with personal anecdote
to have much reader interest....
8.5.: What on earth do you mean
by “the gulls’ mackintoshed feet”?
... .T.P.: A sea of similes.... V.R.:
After the second stanza it succeeds
in going to sleep. .. .H.H.: Not as
good as jthe ghost in “Hamlet”. . . .
P.F.H.: Your acrobat did a back-
flip into the basket... .N.C.: As a
critical study of bodgies it's not
bad; as a short-story it lacks move-
ment. .. . D.W.: “Tension” rhymed
with “venison” suggests the meat
is tough.... A.M.M.: Well, there
was more than a faint sprinkling
of hysteria... .5.8.: Use shorter,
crisper words: “exceedingly” can
often be replaced by “very”....
L.L.: There's much to be said along
those lines, but more briefly....
W.T.: Come again, with fewer
cliches.. . .C.C.: Up and down like
a seesaw K.J.L.: “Bullet-
headed, with a shock of steely hair
and an iron cast of features.”
Needs melting-down... .G.T.: It
might have been all right, except
for your sentiments on religion.
. ...F.V.Stuttering hero s-sent
b-b-back... .Q.J.L.: Very close; the
setting spoiled it. Pick a locality
you know well S.R.: No room
'for gushing matrons... .N.T.: Let
your story take its own shape; don’t
put it in a straitjacket W.D.: The
dialogue could do with overhauling.
. ...P.T.: Condensed, it might pass.
. ...H.F.: The faint rnutterings of
spring are refreshing, but the verse
needs recasting... .D.D.: You’ve
become submerged in artificiality.
. ...A.L.: Tramp-steamer scuttled.
J.G.: “Oh when ... oh when
shall shall I this story tell?” When,
indeed? E.T.: On the right
track; cut out some of that pom-
pous verbiage K.C.C.: Plot
good, but anticlimax overstated.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
A DEAL WITH NASSER?
VlJhen a suggestion was
made in—London “Daily
Telegraph” that a deal with
Nasser might be in contempla-
tion, Hugh Fraser, Conserva-
tive MJP. for Stafford and
Stone, wrote that of all the
new fallacies propagated since
Suez the most dangerous was
the belief 1 that the “Middle
East and Middle East oil have
in some way become less vital
and essential to our and Nato
interests”:
“In Nasser’s Philosophy of
the Revolution his objectives are
clearly stated —to hold the West
to ransom by raising a secular
Jehad throughout the Middle
East and Africa, to seize the
land-mass at the crossroads of
the world, ‘the thoroughfare of
its traders and the passageway
of its armies,’ and to control
its oil—‘a sinew of material
civilisation without which all its
machines would turn back to
naked metal, rusting, incapable
of motion.’
“Hitler talk! But, according
to the escapist argument, vapid
and foolish because he has not
the military or industrial bases,
etc., of a Hitler. But hasn’t he?
Nasser plus Khrushchev: Alex-
andria plus the Donetz. Quite
a different equation. In a short
time master and master’s voice
could be one —with every
identity of interest.
“The West may be approach-
ing its final strategic point of
no-return far more than at Suez.
Any deal with Nasser now,
accepting the expansion of his
empire into Jordan or Lebanon
and thence throughout Arabia,
would mean the loss, first, of
strategic control of oil, disrup-
tion throughout Africa, includ-
ing its Horn and the Mahgreb,
and then the overwhelming of
Israel, Turkey and Persia and
the Gulf. It would be a drift
becoming a rush to a final cata-
clysm or a total surrender as
Russia attains her military
zenith over the next five years.
“Does this then mean that
no successful outcome is con-
ceivable or that no agreement
with Arab nationalism is
possible? On the contrary. If
the case is put clearly, the anti-
Communist as opposed to the
Communist will to win must be
the stronger.
“For Russia this is a matter
of the good or better Com-
munist life ; for the West and
for neutral opinion it is a
matter of life itself. For Russia
Nasser’s expansion is a luxury,
for us his confinement a neces-
sity.
“Nor is Nasser’s imperialism
a necessary concomitant of
Arab nationalism. It is not only
Bourguiba who does well
enough without him. Nasser’s
imperialism, in the view of a
leading, living and therefore
mnmentionable Arab Foreign
Secretary, has by its military
coups, mob law and dragging
of the great Powers back into
the arena retarded the cause of
Arab nationalism by a genera-
tion.
“Moscow domination is
intolerable. Moderate Arab
opinion wants a Western vic-
tory. All Arab opinion waits
to side with the victor: not
London “Daily Express”
“Yes, but will the sheikhs and kings invite them as quickly as those old-fashioned
chaps with rifles?”
only in Iraq, but in Syria and
even in Egypt.
“Anglo-American and French
unity of will and general
purpose can surely now put
strategic, economic and com-
mercial cards of overwhelming
might and attraction onto the
table. Played with firmness,
daring and finesse, this point
of no-return can yet be made
a turning-point.”
* * *
The “Spectator” is all out for
a compromise with Nasser,
which, it claims, “any appraisal
of British interests, as opposed
to British emotions” shows to
be the right policy:
“Although some Government
spokesmen affect to think
otherwise, there is not a
shadow of a doubt that the
Jordan Government has the
support of only a fraction of
the population, and that the
great majority of the country
has no desire whatever to be
‘independent’ whatever
happens, Jordan will not in fact
be independent, because if she
is not allowed to join the Arab
countries she will have to be
supported by the West. Jordan
is not even a geographical ex-
pression, let alone a country ;
and insistence on her remaining
independent would be inter-
preted—rightly—by the Arabs
as a sign that the West is
determined to remain dominant
in, anyway, the desert parts of
the Arab world, and to prevent
the Arabs deciding their own
future.
“The only way we can safe-
guard the gallant King Hussein
and his friends is by flying them
to England and setting them
up in Sussex. Once we abandon
our indefensible position on
this point, it will be'easy to
find a face-saving formula.
“We should surely encourage
the ruler of Kuwait to join the
United Arab States (the correct
name for the United Arab
Republic of Egypt and Syria,
plus the Yemen ahd any further
adherents). Article 2 of the
Charter of the United Arab
States says: ‘Each State will
preserve its international per-
sonality and its system of
government’; and for Kuwait
to join the U.A.Sk. would be
in everybody’s interest. It is
often said that the ruler of
Kuwait and the Kuwaitis like
sitting on the fence and wilj.
continue to do so. But this
ignores the fact that since the
revolution in Iraq there is no
longer a fence to sit on. By
joining the U.A.S. the ruler
would preserve his sheikhdom,
and his subjects would have
their pan-Arabic aspirations
satisfied.
“We would have our oil safe-
guarded, and the investment of
the ruler’s royalties in. the
U.A.S. and the rest of the Arab
world would not only make for
stability in the area—which is
certainly in our interest; it
could be good for our trade as
well. If we do not encourage
the ruler of Kuwait to take such
a step, one of two things will
happen.
“Either he will take it himself
—in which case we will be un-
able to do anything about it;
our treaty with Kuwait gives us
no right to send troops there
unless the ruler asks for them,
Or the ruler will be overthrown,
—in which. case, shouting the
new incantation ‘indirect:
aggression,’ we will send in
troops and the oilfields will
be sabotaged. . . .
“The Arabs want to be
neutral in the cold war. and
they want to be united. Since
both things are in our interest,
what on earth is the point of
trying to stop them?”
* * *
U.S. commentator Walter
Lippmann, in New York
“Herald-Tribune,” doesn’t con-
sider the question of an accom-
modation with Nasser vital;
he can either take or leave it:
“The paramount issue in the
Middle East is not oil, which
the Arabs must sell to the
West. It is not Israel, which
is on the sidelines in the
present crisis. It is not the
revolutionary force of Nasser-
ism. The paramount issue is'
Russia’s determination not to
have U.S. military power on her
southern flanks. . . .
“What we are seeing is a
campaign by the Soviet Union
to disrupt the containing
alliance on her frontiers, and,
with the explosion in Iraq, this
campaign has had a great
success. It has not only
knocked out the only Arab
State in the alliance, but it has
isolated Turkey. The Russian
support of Nasserism has been


the main strategical device in
this campaign. The immediate
objective of the campaign is
to deny to the West, and par-
ticularly to the United States,
the strategic control of the
Middle East.
“A settlement cannot be'
achieved with Nasser alone.
An accommodation with him
is most desirable. But appease-
ment of Nasser is quite un-
necessary. The basic settle-
ment must be reached with
Moscow, and the subject of
that settlement must be the
strategic control of -the Middle
East.
“There are three conceivable
possibilities. One would be to
restore the Middle East as a
sphere of influence for Britain,
France and the U.S.A., with
Russia excluded. This cannot
be done. It is too late. We
are not strong enough to do
itr A second would be to let
the Middle East become a
Russian sphere of influence.
This would be an unnecessarily
abject surrender. We are not
so weak that we must accept it.
“The third possibility would
be to neutralise the Middle
East as between the two great
military alliances and to builef
upon this overall neutralisa-
tion specific agreements about
the oil business, about the
security of Iran, Lebanon and
Israel.
“This will not be easy, and
it requires a higher order of
statesmanship than we are now
accustomed to. But it is not
impossible. For it does not
run contrary to the. vital in-
terests of any of the nations
concerned.”'
Iraq's New Regime
Recognition of the new
Government of Iraq by the
Western Powers is not in itself
condonation of the methods by
which it seized power; it is
mere acceptance of the fact that
Abdul Kassem’s Government
is in undisputed control of the
country. The Baghdad corre-
spondent of the London
“Economist” remarks that
although the Army was the
instrument by which the rule of
Feisal and Nuri es Said was
overthrown, the people were
wholeheartedly with it. What
happens next, he considers,
depends largely on Western
policy towards Iraq:
“President Nasser has not yet
scored a victory in Baghdad.
It is true that he is popular
and that his picture is to be
seen as frequently as that of
the new Iraqi ieaders, but
neither the new Government
nor the majority of intelligent
Iraqis contemplate a deal such
as that which Syria made. On
the contrary, it is clear that the
new leaders believe that they
have brought their country out
of its near-isolation so that it
can again play a part in the
creation of Arab policy.
“It would do great harm to
British policy if anything were
done or left undone to obstruct
-New York “Herald Tribune"
“It’s simply a movement towards Pem-Arabism. Here’s the pan.”
this development. Egypt and
President Nasser may have been
weakened, not strengthened,
by the entry of Iraq into the
dynamism of radical Arab
nationalism.... Syria, Egypt
and Iraq may in the aggregate
be stronger and more in-
fluential, - but Egypt will no
longer have a monopoly of
renascent Arabism.
“One can with reason ask
whether the declarations of the
present Iraqi leaders, in which
they promise their friendship
to the West, their respect for
oil agreements and fidelity to
treaty commitments, can be
taken at their face value. The
answer is probably that they
cannot. The promise to change
oil agreements only by negoti-
ation is in itself a good thing,
but it does not preclude
demands upon the Iraq
Petroleum Company which
could create .a period of
immense difficulty for the
company. Iraq will not stay in
the Baghdad Pact, though the
new Government may decide
to depart from it only after
proper notice. .. *
“Naturally there is a suspi-
cion that the new Iraq will go,
as Egypt did, too close to the
Soviet bloa Preparations are
already being made to estab-
lish diplomatic relations with
Russia and the satellite
countries which in the past were
denied any sort of relationship.
There is, however, a funda-
mental difference between the
cases of Egypt and Iraq. The
Western Powers’ economic
dealings with Egypt declined
steadily over the post-war years
and had reached a point at
which Egypt in 1955 had diffi-
culty in existing; there was
no overwhelming interesCto tie
Egypt to the West, and the need
to sell its cotton compelled
increasing relations with China
and those countries in eastern
Europe which were willing to
buy it. The situation in Iraq
is quite the opposite. The West
is buying more and more oil,
and the Soviet bloc could not
buy or use anything like the
quantity that Iraq produces.
There is, in the circumstances,
no reason to doubt that Iraq
still needs and desires friendly
relations with the West. . . .
“Governments brought to-
gether after a military coup
are seldom final in form, and
there are already those who
believe that Abdul Kassem is
the - Neguib to Abdul Salam
Aref’s Nasser ; Kassem has the
easy friendliness of Neguib and
Aref the stern withdrawn look
that Nasser wore on the way
up. There are difficulties and
uncertainties, but Iraq needs the
West so much that there can
still be worth-while profits from
British diplomacy there.”
Fun and Games
Commenting on the suc-
cess of the Cardiff Empire
Games the “Daily Telegraph”
says that so much imagination
went into them and so much
that was spectacular and
memorable came out of them
that it would seem fitting that
they should leave their mark
on athletics in some new form :
“If it should be a Common-
wealth mark, so much the
better ; for it was characteristic
of Cardiff that Britain did not
dominate, did not even com-
pete. England took most of
the honors, with Scotland and
.Wales coming after Australia,
South Africa, Canada and New
Zealand —and the Isle of Man
just beating Ghana by a head.
But the performances of indi-
viduals mattered more than the
placings of countries. It is the
study of those times and
distances that suggests a new
idea.
“Why should not a Common-
wealth team compete at
intervals with the United States
and the Soviet Union in a
triangular match? That would
be a gathering of tigers, at
which the Commonwealth, on
present form, might win. Of
course it .would have a political
significance the first time ;
but this would become less
important as the years went
by. The mingling of athletes
would cut right across color
and creed. The teams them-
selves would cut acposs race and
language. Nationalism, so often
an ugly and brutal excitement,
would be lost in bigger loyalties.
“Above all, there would be
the finest possible running,
jumping, throwing and swim-
ming. It might, indeed, be the
summit.”
* * *
Opposing the view of Foreign
Secretary Selwyn Lloyd that
all youth organisations should
refuse invitations to the World
Youth Festival in Vienna, the
“News-Chronicle” says that the
show is Communist-run and is
no doubt designed to further
Soviet policy, but that never-
theless Mr. Lloyd’s advice is
“cautious, well-meaning and
wrong”:
“Are we so scared of our
own beliefs that we cannot


J
NO SINGLE RUM CAN MATCH IT!
RED JACK RUM
o
p
RED JACK
M
K
BLENDED FROM QUEENSLAND’S
CHOICEST 7-YEAR-OLD
POT-STILL RUMS* NO “SINGLE”
RUM CAN MATCH IT
Specially blended by
John Dewar & Sons Ltd., Sydney and
Harbottle Brown & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney
♦
r
DWB7
expose them to a whiff of Karl
Marx? We laugh at the Soviet
Union for limiting travel: must
we then really advise our own
young people in just the same*
sense?
“Some individuals will cer-
tainly go; and for these the
Foreign Minister has advice
that should be applied to all.
They should know the purpose
of the festival, they should
acquaint themselves with the
issues that divide the world, and
they should know the facts
about their own country in
order to refute lies.
“To keep the young people
of East and West rigidly apart
is a negative concept. It sows
the seeds of perpetual division.
It is a sign of fear.
“It would do the Communist
young no harm to learn at first-
hand some facts that confute
their own doctrines.
“Any young people from this
country will obviously be in
some danger of becoming
politically misguided. The
danger should be accepted, not
run away from.”
* * *
In contrast to these expressed
hopes of a better world to be
gained through sport is the
“Manchester Guardian’s” com-
ment on the disgrace of a
famous Russian footballer:
“The news that Edouard
Streltsov, the cynosure of
Moscow football fans, has
been sentenced to 12 years’
imprisonment for rape during
a drunken party ends a Soviet
rake’s progress of classic pro-
portions. When he first joined
the ‘Torpedo’ team Streltsov
neither drank nor smoked, but
success soon changed all that.
Last February he was dis-
missed from the national team
for drunkenness and only
reinstated after publicly con-
fessing his errors.
“For the English reader there
is nothing very new in all this ;
arriving at stardom from insig-
nificance, both footballers and
actors have been known to
shoot madly from their spheres.
Nor is it surprising to learn that
Streltsov was so dumb that ‘he
thought the Caspian Sea was
salty because of the herring
in it.’ What is interesting is
what he got away with before
protection was withdrawn.
“Assaulting the police, break-
ing into flats, turning his own
wife and baby into the street,
striking a man in the face with
his certificate of Honored
Master of Sports all these
misdemeanors were apparently
hushed-up in the interests of
Soviet football.
“No wonder that !Konsomol-
skaya Pravda’ criticised the
officials who had allowed this
London “Daily Mail”
“I’ll appreciate it, Williams, if you’ll refrain from referring to
his Lordship as a ‘lifer.’”
to go on. The real fault seems
to lie in a system which reposes
on favoritism rather than
equality before the law. ‘lt’s
quite all right, officer,’ has a
familiar sound, but it is not
one which harmonises well with
the claims of an oecumenical
Marxist State.
“If it needs a rape before a
leading footballer is prosecuted,
a high official must be able
to get away with murder. But
that is nothing new in the
U.S.S.R.”
Turkey's Economic
Troubles
Geographically a buffer-
State between the Middle East
countries and Russia, Turkey
has received vast economic and
military aid from America.
From time-to time doubts have
been expressed as to the
wisdom of this policy ; critics
have asked what use the rulers
of Turkey have been making
of the foreign-aid funds that
have been poured into their
country. Writing from Ankara,
a correspondent of Edin-
burgh “Scotsman” gives them
credit for good intentions and
broad vision, while emphasising
the current difficulties facing
Turkey:
“The Turkish peasant has
never had it so good. He is
eating butter with his bread
instead of the fat broad tail of
the Anatolian sheep. He is
taking sugar in his tea instead
of jam. He drives the family
to town on the new tractor.
He wants a new suit every
year instead of almost never.
“But, according to one of
the international experts
recently in Ankara, the Turkish
economy is now in a worse
state than any other country’s
except Iceland’s. The Turkish
balance of trade and foreign
debt are millstones on future
development.
“Turkey has an economic
strength and wealth which
belies her troubles of recent
years. She has rich raw
materials coal, iron - ore,
•chrome manganese, perhaps
soon oil as well (prospects for
this are good). Turkey is one
of the largest producers of
tobacco and hazel-nuts. Possi-
bilities for agricultural develop-
ment are excellent.
“Why then has she got into
difficulty? Mainly because her
rulers have galloped ahead with
a breathless programme of
economic development.
“Buildings, roads, ports,
factories, bridges and hydro-
electric dams are all highly
desirable assets, and the
number of them that the
present Government of Mr.
Adnan Menderes has built in
recent years is remarkable. The
face of Turkey has been
changed. Wherever you travel
in this rapidly modernising
country you realise that there
are few nations in the world
with so much to show for their
foreign debts as Turkey. But it
cannot go on for ever —the in-
exorable economic law which
says so is this: unlimited ex-
penditure in the public sector
on investment which is not
immediately productive means
inflation. And inflation is
Turkey’s problem,....
“The Turkish authorities
seem to have realised the danger
in time. Until now they have
been inclined to reason: ‘We
shall go ahead. The West needs
Turkey—they will always help
us out.’
“On June 1, however, the


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE JOSEPH THOMAS l;ite
of Sydney in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that MAR-
GUERITE EVELYN THOMAS has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1302 of
1018 on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse and is praying for the
exercise of the Court’s discretion under
Section IS (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme- Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 31st day of October 1958 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from J. H. FISHER, Solicitor, 100
Castlereagh Street, Svdne v.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Fly BMC.
ON YOUR CHOICE OF
1000 ROUTES
BY THE FINEST, FASTEST AIRLINERS
around the world
m
■ '
m
•.
mmmm
m
&
Wherever your destination, fly by
BOAC . . . the airline whose con-
venient, comprehensive route network
covers the globe ! BOAC offers you
the finest value in air travel the whole
wide world over — to 51 countries on
all 6 continents.
On all these world-wide routes, BOAC
takes great pride in its reputation for
passenger service. You fly by the
ALL OVER THE WORLD
finest, fastest airliners in service to-day
. . . enjoy that particular blend of com-
fort, good food and personal attention
which makes experienced air travellers
unhesitatingly choose BOAC. Ask now
for full details of BOAC’s world-wide
routes and de-Luxe, First Class, Tourist
and Economy Class services !
Remember, it costs no more to fly by
BOAC.
BOM
TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
Information and bookings from all leading Travel Agents,
Qantas Empire Airways Limited (BOAC General Agents for Australia ).
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL, S.A.A. AND C.A.A.
A97/AU
Government raised the prices
of all goods in Turkey subject
to State monopoly rail-fares
increased by 95 per cent. In
a country already suffering
from high prices it was a bold
move. It was followed by a
draft law to tax higher agri-
cultural incomes, untouched
till now. The Government had
grasped the nettle.
“One of Turkey’s peculiar
troubles is the very fact of a
mounting standard of living.
The result is that internal con-
sumption has absorbed goods
which should have gone for
export, and imports, even those
paid for, have become insuffi-
cient and have had to be supple-
mented by American aid.
Finally, Turkey has a net
annual population increase of
three per cent. As material
prosperity rises, so does the
foreign debt. Turkish problems
result from too much, not too
little, done for the people.
“Turkey is becoming more
and more exposed to a Soviet
bloc trade-offensive. Trade with
the Communist bloc increased
markedly over the last year.
Seeing Turkey priced out of
Western markets by her over-
valued currency, the Com-
munist bloc bought up much of
Turkey’s produce. Tobacco
sales this year —where Eastern
purchases mounted and Western
purchases declined w-ere an
examp’e. The Communist State
can offer what prices it likes.
To get into the market it will
risk losses. Even a pro-Western
country can slither down this
gentle but steepening slope. For
the currency earned can be
used only to buy from the same
source and the process is
cumulative.
“Turkey has no wish to get
tangled with the Communist
bloc, but it can be the political
consequence of economic
mistakes. The answer is to
put the economy into a sound
state. The Turks have made
a start.”


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50 th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Control of Trouble-spots
That realistic article “Unity
and Global Defence” (B.
13/8/’5B) strikes me as a wel-
come relief from the general
spate of wishful and muddled
thinking.
With the leaders of the
democracies under constant
pressure to provide panaceas
for all evils, including short-
cuts to peace and disarmament,
there is a danger of expecting
a U.N. police-force to achieve
the impossible. Such a force,
like any military force, must
be subject to some political
control, and, if it is to act
promptly and effectively, those
controlling it must be un-
divided in their counsels and
prompt in their decisions.
The controlling body of a
U.N. police-force would be the
Security Council: every move
and counter-move of the force
would require the unanimous
approval of the “Big Five.”
No U.N. police-force could
have acted as promptly as did
the U.S.A. in Lebanon, and
Britain in Jordan, unless it had
been on the spot beforehand.
Even then, any decision as to
how it should act would have
required the approval of the
Security Council and would
have to run the gauntlet of the
veto.
To anticipate possible upris-
ings in all the trouble-spots in
the world would require the
stationing of a large number
of U.N. police-forces scattered
all over the globe. It would
require large contributions of
troops quite beyond the capa-
bilities of minor Powers and
1908
1958
would entail drawing on the
forces of the major Powers,
with inevitable repercussions.
And if one of the “Big Five”
had a vested interest in creat-
ing and maintaining trouble in
one particular spot the dispatch
of a U.N. force to that area
would be vetoed.
In effect, we are crying for
the moon if we demand or
expect something which is only
possible under a World Gov-
ernment. Trouble is far better
nipped in the bud by the
prompt action of national
forces under the control of
responsible Governments, such
as those of Britain, the U.S.A.
and their allies. This is surely
better than leaving the matter
to the U.N. Security Council,
which in the final analysis is
responsible to nobody.
C. C. M. Usher (N.S.W.).
Doctors and Dough
Doctors seem to be doing
pretty well for themselves these
days, at the hands of both the
Federal Government and pri-
vate patients. It was announced
lately that under a new two-
year agreement between the
Government and the B.M.A.
fees for both surgery and
home-consultations for pen-
sioners are to be increased by
Is.; within recent weeks the
group of doctors in my town
have upped their surgery-fees
(from 15s. to 17s. 6d.) and their
home-visits (17s. 6d. to £1). A
few years ago the fees were
12s. 6d. and 15s.
Fees for X-rays have also
risen in some centres through
an arrangement by which G.P.s
“recommend” their patients to
a private radiologist instead of
sending them to the local hos-
pital. For a private X-ray the
fee is double that charged by
the hospital. The excuse is
that the patient gets the result
much sooner ; maybe he does,
but in only a small proportion
of cases does this really matter.
I know of one big country
hospital which has an up-
to-date X-ray installation, with
a competent operator in charge.
But the amount of X-ray work
is limited, because local
doctors (all on the honorary
staff) favor the private prac-
titioner. I don’t know what
gain doctors get from sending
their patients to a private prac-
titioner, but I’d say they do a
great disservice to the local
hospital, besides imposing a
much heavier burden on their
patients.
Medical men seem to be able
to raise their fees whenever
they feel in need of additional
income. Doctors today miss
no opportunity to collect a fee.
A few years ago a second visit
to learn the result of an X-ray
was “on the house,” but today
it is often charged-for. I have
even heard of a woman who
was sent back to the doctor by
her chemist to have a prescrip-
tion corrected and had to pay
another consulting-fee for the
doctor’s mistake. Peter
Simple (N.S.W.).
Tax and the Natives
Objections and refusal by
the natives of Papua-New
Guinea to pay tax is not new
or unusual ; but the large force
of police and Europeans used
in the latest episode near
Rabual certainly is.
Prestige and respect both
for the police and the Govern-
ment must be at very low ebb.
Self-preservation is still upper-
most in the native mind: many
took to the bush rapidly when
the police opened fire. If
you’re anywhere near a crowd
of native police firing their
rifles it can be dangerous. The
serious thing is that it hap-
pened at all.
Natives are not yet very far
from the time when instinct
reigned supreme in their lives
and reason was a latent force.
A veneer of education can
break-down easily with strange
results. Probably one native
was responsible for the original
idea in the recent event, but he
was able to influence others —
just how easily and to what


CHATEAU TANUNDA
Stories of the Coastal Lights No. 21
• • -
5s Se
Deal Island
The lighthouse on Deal Island in eastern Bass Strait has a
double distinction. It is not only the highest in Australia
but it has the greatest range of all our lights.
This lighthouse, which first came nto use in 1848, was
built on a hill about 1,000 ft. above sea level. Since it has a
strength of 1,000,000 candlepower, its visibility is tremendous
—but only under certain conditions. On clear nights it can
be seen at least 40 miles (reports from Wilson’s Promontory,
47 miles distant, say that it is seen there on an average of six
nights in ten), but because of its elevation it is sometimes
completely obscured by cloud in rough weather.
The landing place for stores is in a cove facing Murray
Pass, a comparatively narrow passage between Deal Island
and the two other islands in the Kent's Group (Dover and
Erith). This passage is about two miles from the lighthouse.
Until recent years, a horse-operated whim was used to raise
stores from the anding jetty up the step erise surrounding
the cove. At the top, the stores were loaded on a bullock
waggon (later, a horse-drawn dray) and taken 1 i miles up a
gentle gradient to another whim, where they were raised the
final 400 ft. or so to the lighthouse. To-day, a four-wheel
drive motor vehicle runs direct to the lighthouse.
Two lightkeepers are stationed at Deal Island. The
Head Keeper lives near the landing cove and the Assistant
Keeper about half-way between the cove and the lighthouse.
They run sheep and cattle, keep poultry and have good
vegetables garden to augment supplies from Port Albert.
The position of this light is latitude 39° 30' south, longitude
147° 20' east.
You can have confidence in the quality
of this pure grape brandy
CHATEAU TANUNDA
N.S.W. Agents
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 120 years
CL2I
extent is rather frightening—
to take action.
When the natives realise their
strength (e.g., riots of the
native troops in Port Moresby),
and if they should be organised
by some native trained in Army
manoeuvres, then any imagined
or real grievance could lead to
great bloodshed. Daika
(Papua).
Head in the Sand
The U.S. Department of
State’s refusal to recognise
Communist China is ridiculous.
Australia should certainly no
longer follow the U.S. lead.
Non-recognition has been
Secretary of State Dulles's fine
ever since he has been in
office, reiterated strongly by
him when he was in Australia
for a Seato conference a year
or two ago ; and it was
American policy before Dulles
—ever since, in fact, Mao Tse-
tung took office in October,
1949.
A cartoon-strip in a Russian
magazine showed, first, a
strongly-muscled Chinaman
(labelled “1949”) being con-
temptuously dismissed by Mr.
Dulles—“ You don’t exist.” In
the second stage a bigger China-
man (1953) was being told
definitely and firmly by Mr.
Dulles that he did not exist. By
1955 Mr. Dulles, spectacles
jumping off, was screaming
hysterically at a veritable giant:
“You don’t exist!"
But Communist China does
exist, and, whether we like it or
not, is becoming ever more
powerful ; in face of the West's
boycott, it has had to forge
links with Russia. Non-recog-
nition is not harming China,
and the West, including Aus-
tralia, is denying itself a huge
potential market.
A businessman friend said to
me the other day, in relation to
China: “If I want to conduct
a business-deal with a firm l
contact *the managing-director,
or some such man at the top,
not the office-boy ; and it's
certainly the Communist
Government which is now
managing China.” — Keima (Q.).
Spendthrift Youth
Why do most youths be-
tween 18 and 22 neglect having
bank-accounts to help secure
the future?
Movt young people get wages
far in excess of their needs, but
are not content to have a gay
time on part of their earnings:
they must spend it all. When
their wedding-day comes, hopes
of a home of their own are
remote: the high cost of their
“single” living has exacted its
penalty. The mother-in-law
has to put-up with them till
their lucky break comes—if it
ever does.
What is needed —and it is a
thing the trade-unions might
well consider —is a provision in
all awards for something
similar to the Army system of
deferred-pay. Portion of a
youth’s wages held back would
be credited to his account, to
be drawn, with interest, on
marriage or when he attains a
certain age.
Many ex-servicemen have
had reason to bless the
deferred-pay system ; it could
be just as valued in civilian
life. — Frangeo (N.S.W.).
Automation and the Atomic
Age
By the end of this century
the factory worker who tends
a simple machine—the most
numerous class in today’s
factories —will be as extinct as
the handloom-weaver and the
dodo.
Repetitive industrial tasks
will be displaced by machinery ;
mental tedium will go the way
of physical exhaustion. Today
we still distinguish between the
skilled and the unskilled ; but
50 years hence all repetition
will be unskilled. We simply
waste our time if we oppose
this change ; it is inevitable.
But its implications are
frightening: automation will
displace the clerk as well as
the fitter. The ability to
balance a ledger will have no
more value or social status
than driving a rivet.
This is surely the central
problem in the advent of auto-
mation: the shift of social
standing of those who do
different kinds of work. It is
timely to ask where this shift is
likely to take us. — Menzel
(N.S.W.).
Sixty-fivers
Things are getting pretty
tough for the sixty-fivers. First,
there’s compulsory retirement
from all Government jobs and
a good many private ones, too ;
and now there’s talk of a com-
pulsory medical test each time
a senior-citizen wants to renew
his driving-licence. If the
applicant pays tor this test it
will just about double the
annual cost of his licence.
The applicant who passes
the test will still have to fork-
out the renewal-fee, and unless
the motor-traffic department is
big-hearted enough to guaran-
tee the medical fee (in much
the same way as insurance-
companies do) his clean bill of
health will cost him an extra
quid or so a year. It will still
cost him that for the first year
to find out he isn't fit.
What about the man whose
renewal is due just when he
is recovering from an operation
or serious illness? Not certi-
fied fit at the time, he might
be in the best of health a few
months later. Is his renewal
to be refused when it is due,
and will he be obliged to go
through another driving-test, to
say nothing of an extra medi-
cal test, when he feels fit
again? In my experience most
men over 60 undergo periodi-
cal check-ups purely as per-
sonal routine.
A reason for the proposed
test is that many elderly
motorists drive so slowly as to
force younger and more im-
patient ones to take risks. Cer-
tainly this happens, but why
blame the careful motorist?
It's the young, intolerant fel-
low who is to blame. Drivers


are being fined every day for
exceeding the speed-limit; to
penalise the careful motorist
would merely encourage the
speedster to even greater
defiance of traffic-regulations.
In any case a fit sixty-fiver
won’t necessarily drive any
faster than an unfit one ; and
what are the authorities going
to do about that? I agree that
on busy highways the sensible
motorist keeps up with the flow
of traffic ; but if our roads had
been built to meet modern
requirements there would be
room for both the fast and
slow drivers. Neither would
seriously interfere with the
other.
All the tests in the world,
driving as well as medical, will
hardly reduce the accident-rate
on the narrow, winding
thoroughfares which, for want
of a better name, we call our
“great” highways. M. F.
Dixon (N.S.W.).
Olympic Teamsmanship
Suggestions (B. 6/8/’SB) for
raising funds for the next
Olympics prompt the question:
Who’ll do the organising?
Agreed that at Rome we
should have as large a repre-
sentation as possible, but to
ensure this we need enthusiastic
workers to keep the matter
before the public and to raise
funds.
Interest in the sports should
not only be maintained but
stimulated.
What about The Bulletin
including in “Sporting Notions”
a column or two headed
“Olympics” or “Olympiads”
for pars, relating to prospective
Olympic competitors or excep-
tional amateurs? Other
papers, too, could set aside
space for articles and special
features on the Olympics.
Papers and periodicals could
open lists now —for every £1
subscribed the donor could
receive from the sponsors an
autograph from a leading
amateur sportsman.
The important thing is to
start moving now. It would be
ludicrous to leave the fund-
raising until so late that
our representatives would
have to raise the money either
by begging at football-matches
or speaking at Rotary meetings.
—Dear Bill (A.C.T.).
Eye Diseases
May I have a shot at answer-
ing “R.O.’s” letter (B. 9/7/’5B)
about glaucoma and his experi-
ences with optometrists?
“R. 0.” had six pairs of spec-
tacles in three years ; after he
had been treated by four
optometrists, a leading Sydney
eye-specialist told him his eyes
“would burst in a fortnight.”
I find this quite incredible.
Optometrists don't treat eyes.
Their only job is to select suit-
able lenses to provide clear
vision for normal, healthy eyes.
Any half-blind optometrist
would have advised “R. 0.” to
see his physician or an
opthalmic surgeon.
Since “R.O.” * isn’t familiar
with the optometrist’s qualifica-
tions, here they are (for
N. S. Wales): a five-year
optometrical course, based on
Leaving Certificate standard, at
the Sydney University of Tech-
nology, at which five annual
examination-passes must be
secured ; a complete training to
enable immediate detection of
any abnormal eye-condition
(fortunately few and far
between). These qualifications
are specified by Act of Parlia-
ment.
An advertising campaign is
being conducted by a section
of the retail optical trade in
Australia, which does not test
sight, but which is widely
advertising the “Eye Doctor.”
A large number of people must
indeed look askance at these
manoeuvres, as optometrists
make a considerable contribu-
tion towards the national
welfare by directing for medi-
cal attention any abnormal
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 501
Across
I—Bouchc bird, usually tawny? (9)
6 —ln favour of an affirmative military attack. (5)
9—Try a North poem with body measurement. (13)
10 — Just the drink for a sailor. (3)
11— Jostles in places for snacking. (7)
12— Dime is changed for the same. (4)
13 — The first person in Germany. (3)
15 —Cry of the hunting-yo-yo halved ick-ick. (6)
17 — Stage whispers in part of Caesar’s danger time. (6)
18- —Start the golf greeting to a swell. (3, 3)
20— Even humanity is different from
a chap who’s usually out. (3, 3)
21— Baby drink. (3)
23 — Angeli Wharf. (4)
24 Sourest examination for sailors.
(7)
26 —Sub-verted vehicle. (3)
28 — Strain behaved like many a
transient in Albury. (7, 6)
29 Supple, though he is after the
inflamed. (5)
30 — Don’t do so much necking with-
out silver. (9)
Down
1 — Showy American tennis-player
with a young insect of the male
sex. (10)
2 Invisible blind? (3, 2,5)
3 Untrue that Rome’s not built in
this method of communication.
(5)
4 His pup could become so
arrogant. (6)
5 Dwellings impose on pastry-
cookery. (7)
6 When Tubby loses the lead,
silly! (9)
7 Johnnie Milland-Lindwall beams.
(4)
8 — Spanish artist spoilt a system of
oriental self-discipline. (4)
13 — Change for his mother and the
high society wanderer. (10)
14 — Pony thesis, (anagram) (10)
16 —It can fly Christopher and it up
to a funeral celebration. (9)
17 —Anzacs mention a poem by
Kipling. (3 initials)
19 —Looks for food for a very long
time. (7)
22 —A place for breeding the first
person in Italy where an artist
works. (6)
25 — Age hi the British fleet conducted
the race all over again. (2-3)
26 — Basin delivery. (4)
27 — He’s notoriously unwilling to
pay a tax. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 500


for maximum control of
:•
an sheep of call ages
hirst of the liquid phenothia-
zine drenches . . . tested and
checked over many years’
Australia-wide use... Elliotts
PHENZEEN PLUS en-
sures the fullest effective
control, the greatest con-
venience in drenching,
that can be achieved with
phenothiazine.
DRENCH WITH
Ettiotu
m
<,(
If you prefer
. . . order
Elliotts PHENZEEN (Pheno-
thiazine Powder) in the
same fine particle size, sup-
plied in cans, ready-to-mix.
ELLIOTTS RURAL LABORATORIES
A DIVISION Of D H.A (CHEMICALS) PTY LIMITED
condition that comes to their
notice.
“R. 0.” refers to the “awe-
inspiring” equipment of the
optometrist. Presumably he
means the refractor-head and
its supporting members, where
the entire case of test-lenses are
condensed and confined in one
unit, enabling the patient to
answer immediately “Yes”, or
“No” to the question “Better
or worse?” This equipment is
quite necessary if accurate and
reliable results are to be
obtained. Optometrist
(N.S.W.).
Change to Metric?
As for “Wusslean’s” metric
system (B. 16/7/’5B) there are
very few men in the engineer-
ing and allied trades who do
not realise its advantages. Take
twist-drills. These are made
in variations of l/64in. between
each size, and it is often neces-
sary to convert fractions of
inches into their decimal
equivalents. Anyone having
to do this knows how long it
takes unless a conversion-table
is handy.
A similar case is the setting
and reading of a vernier-
micrometer. An apprentice
spends weeks and weeks in
mastering it, and even then he
is likely to make mistakes
which can be very costly.
What is involved in the
change to metric? In a
medium-size engineering-plant
it would mean the scrapping
of every measuring-instrument
from the ordinary ruler to the
finest micrometer and limit-
gauge. Lathes are geared to
produce threads in inches and
fractions, and they would have
to be discarded, at least for
screw-cutting purposes.
The change to metric is
purely a matter of money, but
who’ll fork-out for it? And
in making such a change the
whole British Commonwealth
must take the step in unison.
—HJ.S. (S.A.).
More O’Malley
J. D. Corbett (B. 6/8/’5B)
may doubt the authenticity of
the proxy forgery by King
O’Malley ; but the probability
of his doing it is great, judging
by other stunts he put over.
Mr. Corbett describes the
creation of the Water Lily
Rockbound Church in Texas,
and Dorothy Catts in her
biography tells of its finish.
“Bishop” O’Malley, to speed
things up, arranged for a
disciple (oddly enough, named
Angel) to stage a “miracle” in
the form of a signal-fire on a
neighboring mountain. Ascend-
ing the mountain, O’Malley
received from Angel the tablets
of the new faith and paid him
to disappear. But Angel got
drunk in Denver, and blew the
whole story to the newspapers.
That was the end of the Water
Lily Rockbound Church.
O’Malley figured in many such
fantastic stories.
Summing-up in connection
with the Commonwealth Bank,
one can say that O’Malley did
by very questionable means
swing the caucus-vote which
led to the establishment of the
Commonwealth Bank. But
O’Malley could hardly claim
to be the creator of this bank,
since Hughes and Fisher both
played a great part once the
decision was taken. Fisher was
largely responsible for the
choice of Denison Miller to
govern the bank, and that great
banker declared several times
that he moulded and modelled
the bank on the Bank of
England. George Beesley
(N.S.W.).
Railway Safety
The question of efficient,
quick and reliable communica-
tion between the driver and the
guard of a train is an un-
solved problem in N. S. Wales
and other States.
This problem was brought
home very forcibly on June 23,
1957, when the Sydney-Bris-
bane Express, approaching
South Brisbane terminus, got
out of control. About the only
thing the driver could do was
blow the horn to attract the
attention of the guard and
attendant —which effort failed.
The emergency-brakes were
applied too late to be effective,
and the train crashed into the
buffers.
Next day I sent a suggestion
to the N. S. Wales Commis-
sioner for Railways. I sub-
mitted that the engine-whistle
was a very primitive, unreliable
way of transmitting a message
or signal between driver and
guard. I pointed out that a
much more reliable method of
transmission would be an elec-
trical circuit between the cab
of the locomotive and the
guard's van, capable of actuat-
ing an electrical buzzer in the
van to give the signal “emerg-
ency-brakes” when required.
On August 15, 1958, I got
a reply to my suggestion. To
my surprise I learnt that the
railway authorities have been
investigating possibilities of
whistles with improved audi-
bility on certain diesel-electric
locomotives, and in the cir-
cumstances it is not proposed
to install either telephones or
electric buzzers in trains.
Surely this is most unsatis-
factory? The range of sound
of a whistle, however loud, is
subject to all the whims of the
atmosphere, winds, storms, etc.
Heavy rain blankets sound.
Many sounds would be cut off
in an air-conditioned car. No,
this expedient is not good
enough George Beesley
(N.S.W,).


ROYAL JELLY
DIRECT FROM THE BEES
30 Capsules 50 m.g.m.
30 capsules 30 m.g.m.
Face Cream . .
POST FREE
£5 5 0
£3 15 0
£1 17 6
FREE LEAFLET
REX PEACOCK, Apiarist
BOX 1818, KERANG, VIC.
N.Z. INQUIRIES WELCOME
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Stock Breeders Excel at Brisbane Royal
Seen by record crowds total-
ling nearly 750,000, Bris-
bane’s 83rd Royal Show was
the greatest exposition of live-
stock ever seen in the northern
State.
The most impressive feature
of the Show was not so much
the portrayal of high quality-
standards, especially evidenced
in the stud-beef and dairy-
cattle breeds, as a demonstra-
tion of the stock industries’
tremendous productive poten-
tial and the ability of breeders
to adapt themselves to the
changing and more exacting
requirements of home and over-
seas markets.
Tn the stud- and commercial-
beef cattle sections the Show
brought out more top-quality
animals from leading N.S.W-
and Queensland studs than had
ever been seen at the Brisbane
Royal National.
For the first time in the
stud-cattle section at Brisbane
Poll Hereford entries took the
lead over all other breeds, the
183-head shown being 22 more
If sheep develop a
light brown or
coppery coloured skin
it could be a symptom
of copper poisoning
or heliotrope poison-
ing. Sheep so affected
should be immedi-
ately moved to an-
other paddock. To
avoid causing danger-
ous wounds which
could be infected by
disease germs graziers
should use Elastrator
Rubber Rings when
marking and tailing
lambs.
than the Herefords—the next-
strongest breed exhibited.
Brisbane had never seen a
better lot of Poll Herefords,
said the judge, G. E. Kirkby,
of Moree (N.S.W.). He added :
“We have seen champions at
past Shows which would not
take a place in the first half-
dozen seen here.”
Repeating her triumphs of
last year, Mrs. N. P. Wright,
of Bick h a m , Blandford
(N.S.W.), won an impressive
chain of successes with her
team of 10 bulls. Her wins
included the junior-champion
bull, Blandford Fortune Teller,
which went on to win the male
grand-championship for the
breed.
Her Blandford Pluto was
senior-champion bull after
having been reserve at this
year’s Sydney Show.
Blandford Fortune Teller,
whose sire—Lyndley Fortune
—was champion at Brisbane in
1954, was born in April, 1957.
Mr. Kirkby hailed him as one
of the most outstanding calves
for his age ever seen at Bris-
bane.
Poll Hereford Cows
Mr. Kirkby said Poll Here-
ford females were probably
more outstanding this year "be-
cause of the greater proportion
of top-quality animals. Grand
champion went to an exhibit
that had earlier taken-off the
junior championship. She was
Mount Hope Duchess Domino,
shown by J. R. Perrett, of
Mount Hope, Kingaroy (Q.).
Herefords put up the best
all-round quality display ever
attained at Brisbane. In the
solid entry of 161-head, leading
studs of N.S.W. and Queens-
land were well represented.
The exhibits were praised by
the English judge, R. Morgan-
Jones, of Hereford, England,
as being of good general
standard and true to type.
Mr. Morgan-Jones recently
dispersed his Rose Stud, in
Hereford, and has brought the
nucleus of the herd to Aus-
tralia with the idea of eventu-
ally establishing a stud in this
country, probably in N.S.W.
He said leading animals
paraded before him at Bris-
bane compared favorably with
Herefords at front-rank stock-
shows at which he had judged
in the British Isles and other
countries, including Argentina
and Uruguay.
Most successful exhibitors of
Herefords included Hays Bros.,
of the Bexley Stud, Narrabri
(N.S.W.). Two of their bulls
—Bexley Barquill and Bexley
'Model—took-off the senior-
champion and junior-champion
ribbons, with the junior bull
“You think I made a goat of myself? Well, go and get
her yourself !”
going on to win the grand
championship.
The grand champion’s dam,
Bexley Belladonna 13th, was
sired by Bexley Demonstrator,
champion bull twice at Bris-
bane and once at Sydney.
Mr. Morgan-Jones said the
grand champion was an excep-
tionally good calf and would
be an important bull in any
company. He was very true
to type, with good breed-
characteristics and excellent
fleshing.
Fenwick Bros., of Myall
Creek, Singleton (N.S.W.),
secured the senior female
championship with Myall
Carissima 60th, which was
champion at Brisbane last year.
She went on to win the grand
championship.
This great day for the Here-
fords was marred by the tragic
death in a car accident, near
Warwick (Q.), of R. I.
White, the immediate past-
president of the Australian
Hereford Society, and a princi-
pal of Timor White Bros., of
the Timor Stud, near Murru-
rundi (N.S.W.). Timor Stud’s
team produced the junior-
champion heifer, Timor Com-
ing Day 37th.
c .
Shorthorn s
Shorthorns were an excel-
' ent declared judge J.
Carter, of Young (N.S.W.).
Tops in the bull classes were
outstanding from the aged ani-
rnals down to the under- 12-
months class. They showed
plenty of breed-characteristics,
beautiful fleshing and good
length of quarter.
Russley Gregalach, exhibited
by T. H. Fleming, of
Russley, Aberdeen (N.S.W.),
was the champion bull, and


It takes “know-how”
Whether it’s pulling a rabbit out of a.
hat or wiring an intricate piece of
apparatus ... the man performing the
operation must have the necessary
“know-how” if the job is to be done
effectively. When it comes to electrical
engineering, Hamilton and Dickson have
this “know-how.”
All jobs are handled by specialists and
the most up-to-date precision machinery
is used.
Rates are moderate, too.
SPECIAL SERVICES
A.C. and D.C. Electrical Motor Repairs.
Armature and Stator Rewinding. Light-
ing Plant Overhauls. Designing and
Manufacturing Transformers.
HAMILTON & DICKSON
54-56 ST. PAULS TCE., BRISBANE
Phone No. B 2018
went on to take-off the male
grand championship.
Champion and grand-cham-
pion cow —Russley Dorothy
6th—was paraded by the same
exhibitor.
Poll Shorthorns maintained
a high standard, said the judge,
D. W. Killen, of Narrabri
(N.S.W.). The breed was im-
proving, and was much better
than it was three years ago.
Prestbury Candowie won the
senior-bull champion ribbon
for C. M. Counsell, of
Prestbury, Southbrook (Q-),
and later was awarded grand
champion.
A junior-champion award —
Welltown Lustre Belle, shown
by Wm. Leonard and Sons,
Welltown, Goondiwindi (Q.)—
became grand-champion female
of the breed.
Aberdeen-Angus
New peaks of excellence
were attained by the Aberdeen-
Angus breed. The judge, H. C.
Goody, of Mungungo (Q.),
said the class-leaders were out-
standing and as good as he had
ever seen at Brisbane.
Struggle for top honors in
the bull classes was a triumph
for two young-women stud-
overseers of their fathers’ studs.
They beat male exhibitors by
leading-out the senior-cham-
pion and junior-champion bulls
for the grand-champion parade.
The senior-champion bull,
Tunbridge Zulu, exhibited by
the estate of A. and J. F.
Leitch, of Tunbridge, Merriwa
(N.S.W.), was led-out by the
stud-overseer, Miss Jane Leitch,
to take-off the coveted grand
championship.
The junior champion,
Moorenbah Wig, exhibited by
H. J. Crothers, of Moorenbah,
Dirranbandi (Q.), was paraded
by the stud-groom, Miss Wendy
Crothers.
The judge said Tunbridge
Zulu was a beautiful bull and
an all-round good specimen of
the breed. This bull and the
junior champion were very
deep-fleshed, but Zulu won the
grand championship for
greater depth of fleshing. He
could not be faulted.
Prices Down
Values slumped sharply at
the Show’s stud beef-cattle
sales, due partly to the general
financial stringency in primary
industries and partly to severe
drought conditions still prevail-
ing in large beef-cattle tracts
in far-western Queensland.
Clearance of 272 bulls and
21 females yielded 83,930gn5.
for an average of 286|gns.,
compared with an average of
365|gns. at the 1957 Brisbane
Royal, when 260 bulls and 14
females fetched an overall
100,175gn5.
Two bulls equalled top price
of 2000gns. Mrs. N. P.
Wright’s grand champion,
Blandford Fortune Teller, was
one of them. He was bought
by J. E. Rollinson, of Nos-
noller, Charters Towers (Q.).
The other was the Hereford
senior-champion bull, Hays
Bros.’ Bexley Barquill, paid by
Prosser Bros., of Thuruna,
Tara (Q.). Best price at the
1957 auctions was 3050gns.
Ability of Queensland’s com-
mercial cattle-breeders to grow
quick - maturing lightweight -
beef most suited for the export
and home markets was con-
vincingly demonstrated in the
fat-cattle section of the Show.
High-quality standards being
maintained by these producers
were praised by the judge,
J. Sparkes, M.L.A., of Lynd-
ley, Jandowae (Q.). Adverse
seasons resulted in support for
the section being substantially
down on numbers of cattle
entered in previous years.
Notable absences were teams
from the far south-west, which
is in the throes of one of its
worst droughts.
Mr. Sparkes said that, as was
to be expected after such a
bad season, cattle entered this
year were without the bloom
generally seen at Brisbane, but
with few exceptions quality of
the cattle was excellent. Right
throughout they were of a type
which fitted well into the trade
requirements of export and
home markets.
A welcome feature was that
very few fat cattle were not
either polled or dehorned.
Elimination of horns was of
tremendous importance in the
reduction of bruising and
damage to carcasses.
Successful Exhibitors
H. V. and B. M. Cruice, of
Tummaville, Yandilla (Q.),
were among the most success-
ful exhibitors. They entered
the champion steer, a Short-
horn. Mr. Sparkes referred to
it as an excellent type that was
not overdone and which was
eminently suited to the meat-
trade.
Champion female was a
young Aberdeen-Angus shown
by C. H. McDonald, of Forty-
seven, Chinchilla (Q.). This
was an animal well suited to
the local trade, Mr. Sparkes
said.
In the pen classes champion-
ship honors went to Stirling
Bros., of Braemar, Brookstead
(Q.), for a pen of six Hereford
bullocks. Mr. Sparkes said
these were a credit to the
exhibitors, and were well up
to the best Show standards.
Dairy Breeds
A record butterfat-produc-
ing Australian Illawarra Short-
horn cow was declared a
champion of her breed in the
judging of the stud dairy-cattle
breeds. Her victory was one
of the highlights of many
excellent parades of five breeds
brought out before southern
judges.
The champion A.I.S. cow
was Sunny View Little Princess
20th,’shown by the well-known
breeders J. Phillips and Sons,
of Sunny View, Kingaroy
(Q.). Princess 20th, champion
at the Brisbane Royal in 1957,
this year established an Aus-
tralian butterfat record of
10531 b. in 300 days under
official test as a junior four-
year-old. In 1956 and 1957
she created Queensland records
with 6511 b. butterfat as a
junior two-year-old and 8401 b.
as a junior three-year-old.
The judge, R. H. Dudgeon,
of Park View, Albion Park
(N.S.W.), said she was all that
could be desired as to con-
formation, constitution and
refinement.
Champion A.I.S. bull was
Blacklands Associate, exhibited
by H. C. Pickels, of Blackburn,
Proston (Q.). This bull was
champion at Brisbane last year.
Jerseys were a creditable
exhibition of the breed, said
the judge, B. R. Anderson, of
King’s Vale, Lyndhurst (Vic.).
He was especially impressed
by the high-standard showing
of young cattle.
In the first exhibition of his
stock at Brisbane J. F. Lau, of
the Rosallen Stud, Goombungee
(Q.), triumphed by parading
both the champion and reserve-
champion cows Rosallen
Handsome and Rosallen De-
lightful respectively. Jersey
bull to be awarded champion-
ship honors was Laguna
Samaritan, reserve champion at
Brisbane last year. He was
exhibited by F. H. Sippel, of
Redgate, Murgon (Q.).
Ayrshires were well up to
the standard of other years,


Where You Enjoy The
Ultimate In Comfort
THE CANBERRA
Ann Street
Brisbane’s Largest and Most Popular
Private Hotel
mm
Phone FB 0231
Dining Rooms and Cafe Open to
the Public
THE CANBERRA
Margaret Street, Toowoomba
Phone 32.0231
CANBERRA-ORIENTAL
King’s Cross, Sydney
Phone FA 2141
First Class Hotels With
Tariffs That Please
Owned and serviced by the
Queensland Temperance League
IRONMONGERIES
PTY. LTD.
Wholesale and Retail
Hardware Merchants
152 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE
Step Ladders with Lock
Joint Hinges. Selected
Timber. Strongly made.
Screwed throughout.
PRICE:
3ft., 47/6. 4ft., 55/-.
6ft., 82/6. 7ft., 92/6.
Bft., 107/6.
the judge, R. J. O'Donnell,
of Allandale, Wollongong
(N.S.W.), said. There was little
tail in the classes. Champion
cow, Inverurie Ada, brought
out by B. Goddard, of Inverell
Stud, Oakey (Q.), was described
by the judge as a beautiful
animal.
Guernseys were excellent
specimens of the breed, and
were a credit to their exhibi-
tors, in the finding of E. H.
Hayes, of Glenoak, Dapto
(N.S.W.), who judged the breed.
Champion cow —Cossartville
Empress, shown by A. B.
Fletcher, of the Cossart Stud,
Boonah (Q.) was a fine
specimen. She was champion
at Brisbane last year.
A swing by Queensland
dairyfarmers from cream- to
milk-production was a signifi-
cant trend reflected in stud
dairy-cattle sales at the Show.
After all other dairy-breeds
had earlier shown a substantial
fall in values at this year’s
Brisbane Show series of stud-
stock auctions, Australian 111a-
warra Shorthorns attracted
prices generally firm on rates
that obtained at the 1957 Bris-
bane Royal.
Selling-brokers attributed the
A.I.S. trend to unprofitable
returns for butter on export
markets forcing more dairy-
men to switch to the produc-
tion of milk for domestic
markets with their more
remunerative prices. Lesser
returns from the production of
milk for cream are influenced
by that portion of the produc-
tion which has to be exported
in the form of butter.
Demand for the popular
A.I.S. cattle, with their capacity
for high milk-yields, was
strong, and the market was
better than most of their owners
had dared to expect.
Top-price was 300gns. paid
for this year’s reserve junior-
champion bull, Vuegon Esteem,
sold on account of R. A.
Shelton, of Vuegon, Hivesville
(Q.), to N. N. Schelbach, of
Warwick (Q.). Best price last
year for an A.I.S. bull was
215gns. for a five-year-old
reserve champion.
The Rams
Disappointment to Merino-
ram breeders was a substantial
fall in values at the Show’s
ram-sales. The market felt the
full impact of last season’s
reduced wool prices.
Altogether, 235 rams were
sold for a total realisation of
16,985gn5., or an average of
72gns. a head. This compared
with a total yield of 24,967|gn5.
at the 1957 Brisbane sales for
an average of lOlgns.
The decline occurred despite
this year’s offering being of
the best standard ever put up
at Brisbane. Highest price paid
was 500gns. for a Bundemar
ram of exceptional quality. He
was bought by Queensland
Pastoral Estates, Northampton
Downs, Blackall (Q.). Top
price last year was a record
2700gns. paid for a Haddon
Rig ram.
Northman.
Too Many Bees?
“B-herd”: The bee-herd
“Hummer” knew (B. 30/7/’5B)
must have built-up prodigiously
for his bees to eat the place out.
I recall standing on a
strainer-post of Abington
station (north N.S.W.) and
counting half-a-dozen big
stands of bee-herds—and that
on improved country. Over the
Armidaie road, behind a
mugga-ironbark patch, the big-
shot Brogan had another
thousand. They all got honey
that year ; the big year in bee-
keeping, 1948, when even the
fence-posts gave half-a-tin. The
fact is that when the country’s
on it can’t be overstocked. Bill
Goodacre, famed bee-man, held
that a single yellow-box he had
under test produced 36 tins of
choice honey. Yet when the
country’s off, five hives will
die-out in it.
“Hummer’s” mate, being a
sheepman, probably built-up to
5000 or 10,000 colonies before
the flock felt the pinch. 1
once struck a prosperous cove
near Guyra who for years had
battled his hives round those
parts, starving on the stringy-
barks. In time the sleet and
the snow they get up there
rotted the boxes away, but
there happened to be a lot of
dead wool about, and he used
it to stuff-up every crack and
hole and crevice and bees
abhor wool. Times changed,
and the day came when a quid
wouldn’t buy more than a tuft
or two of it. Then this chap
took a few empty bags, went
round his hives and tore out
every bolt of wool he ever
plugged a leak with; and,
according to him, it was the
start he needed, and he never
looked back.
The station dinner-gong rang
before I had the chance to
ask him how many hives he’d
run at the time, but he must
have been well up, 1 reckon,
with “Hummer’s” mate.
Plastic Linings
for Dams
“Billjim”: Plastic linings
made from polythene for dams
and similar catchments may
well prove worth using in
parts of Australia to overcome
seepage in pervious soils. How-
ever, the polythene needs pro-
tection from sunlight (which
oxidises the film), and, of
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(14/8/’58)
In Queensland the south coast, Darling Downs, central
highlands and Maranoa areas are likely to receive moderate
rains during September, but conditions may be mainly dry
in the western areas. Light to moderate patchy rains are
probable during October and November, with good general
rains in December.
Rainfall will probably vary from moderate to good in
N.S.W. during September, with the best falls on the South
Coast, Southern Tablelands and South-west Slopes; but the
North Coast and north-west and far-west areas may only
have light rain. Patchy rains are likely in October and
November, with good general rains in December.
Victoria can expect general rains during September,
though no more than moderate and about normal in the
Mallee and northern division. Good rains are likely in
the southern divisions for the balance of the year.
Good rains are probable in the agricultural areas of
South Australia during September, with light to moderate
rains in the Murray Valley and poor in the upper-north,
interior and far-west coast.
In Western Australia the south-west agricultural areas
and the eastern goldfields area are likely to receive good
general rains in September, but rainfall elsewhere may be poor.
LENNOX WALKER.


i me
DEPENDABLE
WATER RAISING
EQUIPMENT
The HEART of the
irrigation unit!
Specially
designed
for irriga-
tion and
all heavy
water handling. Ball bearing and
grease packed glands. Discharge
ports swivel to any position.
AS9X heads to 150 feet, AS9XX
heads to 200 feet. (Sizes are de-
livery and suction.)
PISTON PUMPS
LB.C. Piston
Pump, 1 in.
suction and
del i v e r y,
vee belt driven by
\ H.P. 240 V A.C. single phase
electric motor. 350 G.P.H. WITH
HEADS UP TO 1 1 0 feet for stan-
dard or 165 feet with High Pres-
sure, £56/3,0-- Fitted with Villiers
engine MK 10 R.G., 4 cycle
petrol, £lOl.
71
AUTOMATIC
WATER PRESSURE
TOWN pressure at a
turn of a tap! Incor-
porating the well known
1.8. C. piston pump vee
belt driven by
i H.P. 240 V.
A.C. single
phase electric
motor, pressure
tank, pressure switch, relief valve, tested,
wired and ready for use. 350 G.P.H. at
40 P.S.I. —equal to town pressure. Draw
off to 1 gallon, £B9. “DeLuxe” unit,
larger draw off, 3 to 4 gallons, £lO9.
w.
PORTABLE PUMPING
fin. A6OX Cen-
trifugal Pumps,
mounted on steel
base and vee belt
driven by Mk.
10 “Villiers” petrol engine.
25 G.P.M. at 60ft. hd., £69.
lin. A6OX Pump, vee belt driven by
Mk. 12 “Villiers” petrol engine, 40
G.P.M. at 55ft. hd. Price £74/10/-.
Ifin. A6OX Pump, vee belt driven by Mk.
20 “Villiers” engine, 60 G.P.M. at 60ft.
hd., £99.
l£in. A6OX Centrifugal Pumps, vee
belt driven by Mk. 25 “Villiers” engine,
90 G.P.M. at 60ft. hd., £ll5.
INTERCOLONIAL BORING CO. LTD.
450-466 ANN ST., BRISBANE
8156 i -8228.1 (24 lines)
And at Townsville,
Rockhampton & Sydney
WRITE
FOR
course, from damage by stock
also.
In New Zealand plastic lining
eight-thousandths of an inch
thick has been used in a dam,
laid in sheets 123 ft. long by
9ft. wide, with light stone
thrown over the lining to hold
it in place and with 4in. of
filling to protect it from the
sun and from being trampled at
the edge.
\ The dam is ringed by a strong
fence rabbitptoofed below
ground-level. A concrete-pipe
spillway, laid over the depres-
sion in the end wall supports
an inflow'-pipe and prevents it
chafing the lining, while a float -
inlet in the dam prevents the
flow from the pipe washing the
material from the sides of the
basin. ' I
For a capacity of 150,000
gals, the cost of plastic lining
was only one-quarter that of
concreting the same area.
Earthworms
“Rough Fields”: Can't agree
with P. A. Yeomans (B.
2/7/’5B) that chemical ferti-
lisers are inimical to the earth-
worm.
In the light lands in south-
west W.A., I have found that,
in its virgin-state, the soil
carries a sparse population of
undersized and anaemic worms.
After establishing clover by
surface-sowing, it doesn’t take
more than a year or two for
earthworms to increase almost
to plagud-proportions and all in
the best of condition —large
and full-blooded.
On land topdressed for 30
years, at approximately a bag
of super, and mixed chemicals
to the acre, and without auy
form of cultivation, the original
surface-gravel is now covered
by 3in. to 4in. of dark, fine soil
—the residue of worm-casts.
. . y
Versatility
“Alby”: The most versatile
chemical in the mixed-farmer’s
medicine-chest is bluestone —
and now they’ve found it useful
for increasing the growth-rate
of pigs in the U.K., though
scientists don’t yet know why.
Ousted by phenothiazine as
a worm-drench, bluestone is
still the best chemical for con-
trolling the fluke-snail in still
water, correcting copper defici-
ency, treating footrot ip sheep
(although -formalin is ’ some-
times preferred), curing fleeces
infected with lumpy wool, and
cleaning-up many of the fungus
diseases in the orchard.
Despite all of these advan-
tages, bluestone can accelerate
the fatal “yellows” when used
on sheep which have too much
copper in their livers.
Air Super.
“Rosco”: Aerial topdressing
is proving very useful on steep
slopes, stony rises and open
woodland where no modern
contractor is prepared to drive
his truck or walk for days with
a bag of manure around his
neek.
Since super, has found its
way into such places, stock
have moved in after the rabbits
have gone, and they’ve gained
much in food as well as in
shelter. Calm weather, granu-
lated super, and skilful pilots
are needed, though, to make
sure that all the manure falls
on the right side of the fence
and doesn’t drift across.
_ A Winter Wheat
“B i 1 w o n”: Manufacturing
spaghetti and macaroni is an
important industry in Queens-
land, where the populous New
Aussies eat these foods heartily.
Most of the seminola used in
these products comes from the
south, but the Barnes Milling
people at Warwick believe they
can make it there from a new
winter wheat.
This is Dural, a cross be-
tween Australian Festival and
imported Durham. Planted in
January or early February, it
is ready for the header in the
middle of winter, when most
of the other wheats are being
drilled-in.
Dural has a protein content
of roughly 10 per cent., but it’s
not a good milling-wheat; the
flour extracted is low in pro-
portion. However, it seems a
promising source of first-class
seminola and, if it lives up to
early achievement, the seminola
will find a ready market here
and give the wheatgrower
another, though limited,
market.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
The final meeting of the Women’s
Group of the Cancer Campaign, held at
the home of the chairman, Mrs. Sidney
Baillieu Myer, revealed that its splendid
efforts had yielded just over £lOO,OOO.
Lady Brooks, wife of the Governor, was
delighted to learn that the personal
letters sent out by her had raised £14,000.
Before formally disbanding the group,
Mrs. Baillieu Myer paid a tribute to Mrs.
Norman Sheppard and Mrs. Maurice
Nathan, who were her deputy-chairmen,
the hon. secretary, Mrs. Ronald Marriott,
and the hon. treasurer, Mrs. Colin Clarke.
JLater Mrs. Baillieu Myer entertained
’members at a cocktail-party, the guests
including the Premier and Mrs. Bolte,
Mr. and Mrs. Angus Jones, Mr. and Mrs.
Harry Marks, Mr. and Mrs. Aubrey
Gibson, Mrs. George Laurens, Mrs. T.
Wallace Mitchell, Mrs. Eric Cottrell,
Lady Myer, Lady Steele and Mrs. Charles
Osborne. """
* * ☆
Clusters of multicolored balloons and
large bowls of spring-blossom decorated
Giro's for a dinner-dance organised to
aid the Royal Melbourne Hospital
Almoner Ambulance Auxiliary.
Auxiliary-president Mrs. W. K. Burnside
received the guests wearing a gown of
heavy cream satin patterned in a bold
design of roses in red. blue and green.
Among the guests were Sir William and
Lady Bridgeford (she wearing a taffeta
gown in old-rose tonings and- a fox stole
dyed to 'match it); Sir Arthur and
Lady Warner; Mr. and Mrs. L. R.
McFarlane ; Dr. and Mrs. E. Cunning-
ham Dax ; Mr. and Mrs. L. R. Dooling ;
Professor and Mrs. M. Belz ; Mr. and
Mrs. F. Bryson. Among those who
brought parties were the Geoff Macart-
neys, Mr. and Mrs. G. Economu and
Mrs. D. Kroussos. Cr. O. J. Nilsen was
with his son and daughter-in-law, Mr.
and Mrs. Vic Nilsen. Mrs. Dorothy
Gitsham (wearing a striking sheath-frock
of black Italian straw), Mr. and Mrs.
Eric Cottrell, Mr. Jim Strachan, Mr. and
Mrs. David Raeburn Brown, Mr. and
Mrs. Russell Clark and Mr. and Mrs.
Russell de Milne were among the
dancers.
V- V- V
On September 3 the Victoria League
will give a luncheon at Giro’s in honor
of Sir Cuthbert Ackroyd, chairman of
the Victoria League Council and a
former Lord Mayor of London. Later
that day there will be a reception for
him at the league clubrooms in Collins
Street (those attending the luncheon are
asked to book before August 28); and
at 6 p.m. the Young Contingent of the
league will entertain the visitor. Sir
Cuthbert, who will visit all States, will
attend the 11th inter-State conference of
the league, to be held in Adelaide from
September 22 to 26. He will be given
civic receptions in Ballarat and Geelong.
Mrs. Ian Miller, recently returned
from a holiday in England, where with
her husband and children she visited her
parents, has already got into top-gear
again in her charitable activities. With
Mrs. Fred Fair, she was joint ticket-
secretary for the successful fashion-
parade held at the South Yarra home of
Reg Riddell to aid the Berry Street
Foundling Home and the Lort Smith
Hospital. Shortly Mrs. Miller will begin
planning for the Derby Eve Ball, which
aids the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Children, and which is always
a highlight of Cup Week festivities. Her
relaxation is race-going.
Noted at the opening night of “Not In
the Book,” at the Comedy, which stars
Edwin Styles and Sophie Stewart:, the
short, harem-hemmed frock of rose-pink
taffeta worn by Mrs. S. G. Garnsworthy
with a white Arctic-fox stole ; Mrs. A. G.
Silk’s short, beaded blue frock; Mrs.
John Mollard’s short theatre-frock
topped by a white Arctic-fox fur ; Lady
Tait’s luxurious white-fur wrap ; Mrs. W.
McKechnie’s brilliant-green silk-taffetas ;
Mrs. Ada Colman’s velvet theatre-coat in
olive - green tonings; Mrs. Mark
Clement’s short theatre-frock of taupe
velvet covered with a sapphire-blue mink-
Stole ; the full-length mink coat in silver-
blue worn by Mrs»H. Silk.
The stage-frocks of Sophie Stewart
were outstanding. In the first act she
were a soft-brown relaxed-line linen
suit. In the second act her off-shoulder,
full-skirted frock was of deep-midnight-
blue velvet; for the final act she wore
a slim-skirted biouson-suit in pastel-pink
silk-shantung.
The fashion-parade arranged by Mr.
and Mrs. Neil Rogers, at which spring
and summer frocks from La Petite were
shown, served also to launch the appeal
for funds for the Yooralla School for
Crippled Children. Both Lady Brooks
and Mrs. Henry Bolte, who are
patronesses of the appeal, were at the
parade.
Feature of the fashions shown was the
replacement of the chemise- and trapeze-
lines by the Regency-line, which uses a
softly feminine bodice with no seam
at the waistline. Wonderful hand-
embroideries, subtle draping in ensembles
for day and evening, reversible coats,
often lined with the dress-material,
relaxed line in suits and several slim lace
frocks were other highlights.
Through the use of weightless under-
skirts,- made of layers of fine lawn or
organdie, some of the skirts achieved a
back-swing. This was charmingly ex-
pressed in a short party-frock of junior-
blue pure-silk organza, which was
re-embroidered all over with clusters of
white, woollen daisies. One of the
loveliest evening-gowns showed the
Regency-line to perfection. It was of
white double-chiffon embroidered with
flower-sprays of pink chenille, outlined
with opalescent sequins and green seed-
beads. The high waistline was outlined
with mushroom-pink satin and finished
with pink roses set just below the bust-
line.
* ☆ *
Another fashion - parade was that
staged at a chicken-and-champagne
luncheon at the Hotel Australia by the
Red Cross Young Twenties. Here
designer Hall Ludlow showed his Sydney
spring collection, Red Cross benefiting
from the proceeds. Red Cross repre-
sentatives were Mrs. Alan Spowers and
Mrs. Eccles Mac Kay. Noticed also
were Mrs. Rodney Myer, of Avenel, and
Mrs. John Stoney, of Albury (N.S.W.),
down for a short holiday. Mrs. Stella
Lane celebrated her birthday by attend-
ing the parade with her daughter, Mrs.
Charles Lane. Her daughter-in-law, Mrs.
Robert Lane, was a ticket-secretary with-
Mrs. Peter Kinnear. Mrs. W. H. Hors-
fall was accompanied by her daughter,
Mrs. Graham Oliver (Kyneton), and
others present were Mrs. lan Miller, Mrs.
Claudia Creswick, Mrs. Gordon Darling
and Mrs. Derek Rumbold.
CANBERRA
One of a number of art-exhibitions
opened in Canberra recently was the "Aus-
tralian Women’s Weekly” portrait-prize
exhibition of 1957, made possible by- the
Artists’ Society of Canberra. Dame Pattie
Menzies opened the exhibition in the
society’s gallery at Riverside Centre.
Commenting on the number of entries
from overseas, she said that the portrait-
prize must be a great encouragement to
many artists. Secretary Hugh Groser gave
a short talk on the history of the competi-
tion. Among those noted at the packed
opening were the French Ambassador, M.
Renaud Sivan —who is a keen art-patron ;


also admiring the richness of color in
Dobell’s winning portrait was Mrs.
T. W. L. Mac Dermot, with her husband,
the High Commissioner for Canada ; the
Minister for China and Mme. Chen Tai-
chu ; the society’s president, Mr. G. M.
Duncan and Mr. W. Farmer Whyte (who
admitted to a state of slight confusion
when trying to understand the message
of some of the portraits in abstract). The
exhibition (somewhat late in reaching
the capital) will remain open until
September 3.
* ☆ £r
Mr. F. Henning Hergel (who is Charge
d’Affaires of the Royal Danish Legation
in Canberra and Consul-General for
Denmark in Sydney) entertained mem-
bers of the Royal Australian Institute of
Architects and of the Canberra Art Club
to a screening of Danish documentary
films at Industry House. Mr. Henning
Hergel said that “The Compenius
Organ,” the subject of one of the films,
was among possessions,
as were the beautiful 15th-century
tapestries shown with it. A film of the
classical sculpture of Bertel Thorvaldsen
was a sheer delight. Another film of
interest was “Where Mountains Float,” a
touching story of Greenland Eskimos.
A supper of Danish pastries was served.
SYDNEY
The school holidays have filled the city
with chattering youngsters, and much
entertainment has been specially put on
for their benefit. There is an exhibition
of dolls at Anthony Hordern’s; at the
Tivoli a children's version of the current
“Funfiesta”; and at several stores manne-
quin-parades of children’s clothes. The
“relaxed look,” by the way, has reached
children’s wear, and the smartest dresses
for little girls no longer bunch-out over
frilly petticoats but hang straight and
afe low-waisted—the sailor-suit much
favored. So far there have > been no
harem-skirfs seen on children’s wear, but
this vogue has spread to lampshades, bed-
spreads and curtains (in the brave and
made-to-order group), so it should not be
long before children have them, too.
☆ ☆ ☆
The most comical effect of the 1920-
fashions revival is that on* nightdresses.
Many of them have the old “bateau”-
neckline and a tiny skirt below a knee-
length waistline. One store showed a
number in chiffon ranging in color from
shocking-pink to violet and worn with
long, dangling strings of beads and pearls.
Great fun, but not conducive to a good
night’s sleep!
Such crowds thronged to the opening
of the paintings of Sir Winston Churchill
at the National Gallery that it was really
impossible to see the pictures very well.
This is so often true of openings ; it is
surprising that no one has thought of
issuing a periscope with each catalogue
bought. The crowds continued, so it is
reported, during the weekend, and already
10,000 have seen the exhibition.
# V V
Another exhibition which is creating
a good deal of interest (it is at Anthony
Hordern’s) is that of the prize-winning
designs in the Taubman’s competition for
a house costing less than £3OOO to build.
The £2OOO first-prize went to young
architects K. F. Woolley and M. J.
Dysart, of Sydney, for a design which
featured a 9ft.-square open courtyard in
the centre of the house. Glass walls for
the rooms facing this courtyard would
add considerably to the illusion of space,
and the opportunity to have a small,
private garden would appeal to many
who do not have a fine view from their
allotment. There is also, in front of this
house, a patio of which a barbecue is a
feature. This was Suggested by Mrs.
Woolley, who was married early this year
and at present lives in a flat. It was a
very bright suggestion, and one all women
should make, for the barbecue way of life
is not only pleasant for all, it means so
often that the men take-over the cooking.
Pretty member of Sydney's younger
set, Lindsey Bruxner is the daughter of
Judge and Mrs. J. M. Bruxner, of Belle-
vue Hill, and granddaughter of Colonel
M. F. Bruxner, who recently retired from
politics after having been leader of the
Country party for many years. Lindsey,
who left school last year and who intends
to take up Karitane nursing as a career,
is at present studying French conversa-
tion, cookery and dressmaking. Her
photo by Norton Trevaire.
The personality of the week seems to
be Robert Helpmann, who is appearing
in Noel Coward’s “Nude With Violin”
at the Royal. He is a fascinating talker
and will doubtless be in great demand for
luncheons and cocktail-parties. The
opening-night of the play was lively and
mink-prinked; nearly all the well-known
first-nighters were there, and the elegant
girl in the right-hand box who looked
like a painting by an old master was
dancer Rowena Jackson, with her hus-
band, Philip Chatlield. They are prin-
cipals of the Royal Ballet season, due to
commence at the Empire on September
11. Saw Bill Orr there, too, just back
from gathering new material for the
Phillip Street Theatre *s new revue, “Bats,”
to open soon. He says that English
comedienne Joyce Grenfell is to come to
Australia in mid-1959 to appear in the
Phillip Street Theatre. Hair-styles at this
opening-night were just as interesting as
the furs, and Mrs. Jents (who designed
the women’s clothes in the show so
cleverly) combined the two by wearing a
“headache band” of grey squirrel with
her copper-colored hair.
£r is *
Formal evening-dresses, white-tie-and-
tails, decorations and many national
costumes of Eastern countries made the
reception in honor of the Royal Corq-
monwealth Society’s name a very colorful
affair. The guests-of-honor—the Gover-
nor, Sir Eric Woodward, and Lady
Woodward —were welcomed by the presi-
dent of the society, Mr. Ivan Black, and
Mrs. Black. The High Commissioner for
Malaya, Mr. Gunn Lay Tek, and Mrs.
Gunn Lay Tek came up from Canberra
for the occasion, and among the guests
was 19-year-old Tunku (Prince) Nizam,
the grandson of a ruler of Malaya.
Tunku Nizam is studying art and interior-
decoration at the East Sydney Technical
College. Among jjie wom.en who wore
decorations was Mrs. Kenelm Dormer,
who pinned to her dress the D.S.O. which
had been awarded posthumously to her
son Hugh.
# $ #
Noted that you can now get a divan
specially for your doggie. One thing is
that it might keep him off the new TV
chairs, and being of canvas it would be
of sufficiently rugged nature for him to
retain his self-respect. What horrifies
one is the reports from abroad of the
lengths so-called dog-lovers go to in
attending to their animals. The latest is
that bow-ties are correct for poodles this
season, and that three fittings are needed
for a mink coat or a raincoat and boots.
So the doggie’s divan may be just another
thin edge of the wedge. He may start on
a simple canvas couch, get ideas above
his station and not be satisfied until he
has a mink coat.
☆ ☆ ☆
Those who love to knit may find happy
employment for their fingers by helping
the Save the Children Fund, which is a
voluntary organisation working for
children in over 12 countries in Europe,
Asia and Africa. To feed and clothe
little ones who are in want because of
wars, floods, economic and political up-
heavals, is its constant concern, and in
addition it works to establish high
standards in child-care in many countries.
At present the organisation is asking for
knitters for clothing for thousands of
war-orphaned children in Korea. Par-
ticulars about wool and other require-
ments may be had from Miss L. Black-
more, 74 Cabramatta Road, Mosman.


back, of what he had mistaken
for . schoolgirl enthusiasm, a
warm kiss, a violent hug,
which, perhaps, had been noth-
ing of the kind. He hadn’t
responded, of course. He
wasn’t a puritan, hut he didn’t
go around seducing seventeen-
year-olds he had known as
children, or even fondling
them. And, so far as Barbara
herself was concerned, he was
probably reading too much
into it. Was it so very unusual,
a demonstration of affection, a
bit on the fervent side, by a
teenager, directed at someone
she had known all her life —
someone, moreover, who must
seem to her as old as the hills?
Rogers is older than I am, he
reminded himself. But that’s
different; she didn’t know
Rogers when she was growing-
up. She did know Wallace,
though; Wallace, who was
about his own age, give or take
a year. And what did that
prove?
On the other hand, how else
explain the black rage he had
felt in Wallace’s flat except as
straightout, old-fashioned
sexual jealousy? Put like that,
there was no way around it.
Yet he hadn’t spen it —he had
given it other, high-sounding
names. He hadn’t seen it for
what it was until this moment
watching the bishop deftly per-
forming his business, tying the
knot.
So it had been there all the
time, unrecognised, the sexuai
pull. There, but complicated
and disguised by those early,
vivid memories of Barbara as a
small, self-possessed child with
a precise voice, a taste for
difficult words, and a dislike
for soap-and-water.
Lady Beaujolais, that
unusual woman, had advanced
ideas on education. So, with
her mother at that time much-
occupied with entertaining in
the city, Barbara for some
years ran wild here at the
country place, reading anything
.she wanted to in the gloomy,
dusty library: a spirited, en-
gaging, but unkempt child.
Even then the big old piace
was more like a cavalry
barracks than a home ; the
Beaujolias home proper was in
the city. There were servants,
of course, and old Sir Lionel
was sometimes there for
months on end, but there was
no proper supervision. Then
suddenly Barbara was packed-
off to school —perhaps some-
one had pointed out to Lady
Beaujolais that she was rear-
ing a young savage, up there in
the bush—and when Barbara
came back from school she was
different.
There was a big gap between
her and the other Beaujolais
children, which perhaps
explained Barbara's unusual
upbringing. That, at least, had
been Andrew’s mother’s theory.
Lady Beaujolais, Andrew’s
mother said, had been too busy
bearing and rearing children to
indulge in such nonsense in
her early married life.
The bishop's soft, broad
white hands hovered expertly
over the two heads—his dark,
too-glossy head, her gold head
filmed by the veil "Beaujolais
brides had been wearing since
"I hope now that General de Gaulle is in charge hell
clean this sort of thing up."
a long time ago ; as they used
to say, from the olden days.
Because the Beaujolais family
was a fine old family, and-
rather went in for things like
historic veils, and getting
married here in this old church,
bang in the middle of the
Beaujolais land, although most
of the family were city-dwellers
and the property had been run
for a long time by a succession
of efficient managers.
Nothing less than a bishop
would do to marry a Beau-
jolais. Naturally. And this
one, too, was quite a bishop ;
scholarly, portly, witty, but
also a throw-back to the old
fighting bishops who had led
their own men-at-arms into
battle, Andrew had always
thought. You only had to look
closely at the scar-tissue
around the deep-set, lively
eyes, to see that at one time,
in some kind of rough play,
the man had been a fighter ;
boxing, perhaps; Rugby
Union, maybe—a tough front-
row forward. You only had to
talk to him, to note the jaw,
the odd mixture of grimness
and benevolence in the broad,
smiling face, to see that he had
the mettle for sterner fighting,
given the need and the oppor-
tunity. And this, Andrew
thought, was appropriate. Not
just the fact of a bishop
officiating at Barbara’s wed-
ding, but a particular kind of
bishop. The feudal touch.
But was the bridegroom
appropriate?
'T'he massive bishop towered
over Rogers and Barbara
—even allowing for the extra
inches of his position, he was
a very big man.
Rogers Was not a big man
—stocky, but not tall. Strong,
though, judging by what he
did to Wallace at the flat.
Strong, or mad with rage, or
both.
He had felt murderous about
Wallace, but, oddly enough,
he had found it hard to work-
up any indignation about
Rogers’s behavior that night,
although much of it was, by
most standards, bad. The act
of a cad, as Wallace had
bleated, absurdly, from behind
a mat.
Rogers, sitting absurdly on
their clothes, had glowered and
said nothing. He had locked
the door to the bedroom, cut-
ting Wallace off from fresb
garments, and put the key in
his pocket. Sat there doggedly,
holding them in the lounge-
room, waiting for the result
of his phone-call.
When Andrew rang the
doorbell Rogers answered it,
the bundle of clothes under
his arm. Stared blankly for
a moment, made to shut the
door, changed his mind,
grunted, and clumped back to
his chair. Put the clothes on
the seat—and sat on them.
Wallace bleated.
But Barbara, despite her odd
situation, was not a bit em-
barrassed—a radiant, naked
young woman, dancing with
rage, or excitement, greeting
him warmly, confident he
v could fix everything. You
couldn’t help liking a girl like
that.
And, eventually, he did
arrange something. He got
their clothes back, persuaded
Rogers to come away with him.
Barbara, practically spitting
at Rogers, blue eyes flashing,
snatching her clothes, smiling
warmly at Andrew, “Thank
you, Andrew dear,” Wallace
bleating feebly in the back-
ground. There was a red mark
on Barbara’s face. In the cab
Rogers admitted he had
“clouted her a couple—to keep
her away.”
And now they were getting
married : . . Was this, a bare
week before, a good founda-
tion for marriage?
He had felt almost sorry
for Rogers the man’s hurt
and baffled rage. But, after
all, on his own showing, the
fellow had practically tried to
buy the girl, so he probably
deserved what he got.
And then he tried to get his
money back.
It was a confused story
Rogers told in the cab ; and,
very probably, an untrue one.
Before he heard it Andrew had
taken him to task for ringing
Lady Beaujolais and informing
her of her daughter’s dilemma,
bluntly demanding that she
come and collect Barbara. It
was a monstrous thing to do
—as Wallace had remarked,
caddish. Rogers brushed these
admonishments aside, grunt-
ing, “So that’s where you come


in, eh? The old lady rang
you?”
Lady Beaujolais had rung
Andrew, only the faintest
tremor in her clear voice, say-
ing that Barbara was in some
trouble at a certain address;
could Andrew go and see?
Rogers said, uncouthly, that
Lady Beaujolais should have
come herself.
There had seemed no point
in continuing that line of dis-
cussion, and they had smoked
for a time in silence. Then
Rogers made his astonishing
statement.
He had felt nervous of ask-,
ing for Barbara’s hand, he said
(well he might, Andrew
thought grimly), but wanted
everything, as he said, above-
board. Parent's consent. That
is, Lady Beaujolais’s consent.
Barbara was a minor, but even
if she hadn’t’ been . . .
There was also, Andrew
thought shrewdly, the question
of Barbara’s portion of the
estate.
So Rogers had gone to see
Lady Beaujolais. The ques-
tions he had doubtless feared,
about his early life, his family,
had not been asked. She
merely inquired about his
financial status, which was
“satisfactory,” and suggested a
settlement for a large, but by
no means disproportionate,
sum. He agreed. In fact, on
the matter of the settlement
he thought he had got off
rather lightly.
He presented himself again
with the deed of settlement,
and she read it carefully, put
it down, took off her reading-
glasses, and-said in her clear,
precise voice: “I’m afraid
there’s some mistake, Mr.
Rogers.”
No mistake, he had assured
her. Everything duly drawn-up
and witnessed ; the moneys as
agreed.
“That’s not the mistake,” she
said coldly. She made a slight
gesture —Andrew could see her
doing it, the fragile hand
flopping briefly on the slim,
blue-veined wrist “This is
made out to my daughter, Mr.
Rogers. My understanding was
that you "wished to make the
settlement on me.”
Tt took a moment for this to
sink in. Then —it was not
his usual way of doing business,
Rogers assured Andrew, and
Andrew could believe him —
something prompting him to
the gesture, he wrote out a
cheque on the spot and gave it
to her. A proud flinging in the
face of all the Beaujolais world
that had sneered at him as a
glorified moneylender, or
worse; throwing his cheque,
so to speak, over a windmill.
Lady Beaujolais inspected it
carefully, thanked him dryly,
and put it away. She had lost
no time in cashing it, Rogers
said.
An astounding story. Rogers
was not, in his ordinary busi-
ness dealings, a strictly truthful
man ; and Lady Beaujolais was,
well, Lady Beaujolais., But
Rogers told the story in a
passion of what might very well
be sincerity. A detail stuck in
Andrew's mind —the amount.
Because, not long before, Lady
Beaujolais had rung him and
said she had some loose
money to invest—to that precise
amount.
Rogers had come into
Andrew’s office a day or so
later, saying he wanted his
money back, threatening litiga-
tion. Andrew had sent him
about his business. He had,
however, rung'Lady Beaujolais,
cautiously outlining what
Rogers had said. Lady Beau-
jolais said, of course, it was too
fantastic. She thought the poor
fellow had been drinking
heavily—a cousin of hers had
been afflicted the same way just
before his marriage. Person-
ally, she wasn’t keen on the
wedding taking place, in view
of all the circumstances, but
Barbara, poor dear, had set her
heart on it
“It would be wiser, I think,
to forget the whole unfor-
tunate matter,” Lady Beau-
jolais said gently.
So Andrew, for practical
purposes, forgot it.
And Barbara, if she had been,
as Rogers alleged, more or less
sold over the counter, was it
any wonder she had gone to
Wallace? So much more her
type, as most people would
sayT But was he? Weren’t the
glowering, black-eyed man and
the flashing, blue-eyed beauty
of the flat-scene fitter mates
than Barbara and the bleating
playboy behind the mat?
Barbara, after all, had picked
Rogers in the first place.
e
“TVear Barbara,” Dorothy
U Perkins sighed; even
sensible women, it seemed,
bei " S Sen,imental
Terms “of endearment, in
S'
Andrew reflected. Dear, some-
thing cherished; dear, some-
thing expensive. Dear Barbara ;
expensive Barbara. If Rogers’s
incredible story were true,
which, of course, it couldn’t
be . . . The man was a com-
plete outsider!
Was he any more of an out-
sider, and harder or sharper,
than the first Beaujolais who
had settled here on land
acquired by shady deals in rum,
or getting on the ri£ht side of
some early Governor, or what-
ever it was? Andrew wondered.
Probably not.
The massive bishop beamed
as he, Harold, took her,
Barbara, to be his lawful
wedded wife, to have and to
hold. And Harold held - her,
with a firm, proprietary hand.
Having paid for her, according
to his absurd story, he would
doubtless cherish her. And
good luck to him, good luck to
her. Something about wed-
dings, they made you optimistic.
Made you think that, after all,
things might work out. None
of his business —but he did
like Barbara. He even half-
liked Rogers. He was, at any
rate, an improvement on
Wallace.
What Barbara probably
needed, Andrew decided, was
a firm, proprietary, male hand.
She looked radiant. They all
do, of course ; still . . *
Marriage, after all, was the
natural lot of woman, and of
man. It was no fun living
alone. Marriage, to someone
less disturbing than Barbara,
might be all sorts of fun. No
need to rush in, of course . . .
“Dorothy,” he said abruptly.
“What are you doing tonight?”
The Hollidays
By Middy
“ sh-h-h-h!"


high-flown, over-romantic, impetuous*
and, I think, evasive. She is perpetu-
ally longing for love and perpetually
dodging it; and when she does catch her
man, in the shape of Macca, you just
can’t believe the whole episode. Some-
thing has been left out of this story, or
something added to it. Macca is the
only unconvincing character in the
novel; but unfortunately much of the
central movement depends on him, and,
insofar as it does, the plot falls to
'pieces. The book even becomes —for
a page or two —tedious.
Lastly, it is a novel which you have
to accept on the author’s own high
terms of pride in her own powers. You
must grant her fhe right (which every
young writer claims for himself with-
out the slightest hesitation; sometimes
with justification, sometimes not)
passionately to believe in her own
genius;—
The railway crossing lay stark
and bare across the road that led to
their old homestead, and two great
poplars, the poets of the land, shook
their bare autumn branches, black
and fine, across the stars. Post-
and-rail fences, as frail as Chinese
writing, lay on each side of the trees
against a reddening sky. We lived
for things like that.
Over Evan’s range burnt the
Dog-star, Sirius, with a scorching
red, blue and green fire.
“That is my star,” I said to Blue.
There, walking slowly, with my eyes
raised to it, I prophesied.
“Some day I shall write fully our
life together, with its tragedy and
comedy. But better than that, I
shall write of Australia and bring
lovers to her so that they shall fill
the land with visionaries. For ‘where
there is no vision the people perish.’
That sort of writing may not par-
ticularly annoy the reading public—
people might even like to see their
writers full of love for the land and
pride in their own powers—but I have
a notion it irritates some of the critics.
Who is Eve Langley, I imagine them
saying, to write like that?
The answer is, I suppose, that she
is the author of “The Pea Pickers.”
And what a rich, a delightful, a
wholly captivating book it is, once you
have accepted its limitations and its
extravagances!
Its simplicity—its closeness to the
earth; its implied concept of the novel
as a comedy of character—is, of
course, not a limitation but a virtue.
Its youth and femininity, if sometimes
they are a weakness, are also the source
of its strength: its charm, its laughter,
its exultation in Nature and human
nature. If the central plot Is weak,
there is another, co-equal theme to
hdld it together, the story, at once'
eager and desolate, of the return to
Gippsland of the descendants of old
pioneering families, now dispossessed
of their lands; and if this theme again
is not fully developed, the picaresque
tale of rambling pea-pickers into which
it finally inclines is a well-established
and perfectly adequate form. And, be-
sides, as Frank Davison said, it is held
together “by a quality of mind.”
The one thing I really wanted to find-
out in rereading it —for I was sure
enough about its excellence as a prose-
poem of the Australian countryside—
was how the humor had lasted. And
it seems to me, on inspection, to have
lasted quite undiminished. Once again
I was astonished at Eve Langley’s rare
gift of communication; she makes, you
share to the full her own laughter at
literally hundreds of comic incidents,
like the time they had to boil their
clothes in with, the stolen pumpkin,
and the time old Gauda Singh came
prowling amorously through the night,
and the time Charlie Wallaby’s mother
wanted to know why the guest had left
his bedroom . . . small things, simple
things, human things, animated with
irresistible delight.
I was astonished, too —and it was a
point I had not precisely remembered
—at the brilliance and profusion of all
the little word - portraits teeming
through the book; not just the unforget-
table Italians, like Tomcatto and the
poor wretch who was trying to find
the meaning of “Ow you do your do
do do?” but every one of the hundreds
of characters you meet, from the first
glimpse of Rusty Organ caught lying
fully-dressed in his old bath, reading
the newspaper,,to such major creations
as the Black Serpent, the woman who
smouldered like the sarsaparilla-vine
—all wonderfully captured in a phrase,
a sentence, a paragraph, like a set of
inimitable pen-drawings.
It is a novel in which you have to
read every word, not because the prose
is difficult but because it is so beautiful
and so original. At the least it is surely
a magnificent regional novel of Gipps-
land; and, ranging as it does into New
South Wales, it has a sweep and scope
matched in few other Australian novels.
In its sensuous evocation of the Aus-
tralian earth it reminds me of the
poetry of Judith Wright, expanded into
prose and infused with human comedy.
It has affinities in some respects with
Katharine Prichard, Miles Franklin
and Kylie Tennant; but we really have
nothing else in Australian literature
quite like it. It is a slight thing in
some ways—the adventures of two
girls who go pea-picking—but it is also
so rich a thing that, once again to quote
Frank Davison, “I think it will be
cherished.”
Douglas Stewart.
Ethel Anderson
Ethel Anderson was. a person of
immense vitality and splendid wit. She
was also a person who, gave out affec-
tion magnificently. Visits to Ball
Green, her home at Turramurra,
N.S.W., all added memories'of the
vitality, the laughter and the love, as
well as lively discussions of writers,
their work and their words. I do not
know when her serious writing started
(as a very small child I can remember
her painting and making me sit for her),
but she had had poems in English maga-
zines before she returned to Australia
after World War I, and from then on
her interest in words and writing grew
ever more absorbing anti exciting.
It was not possible for me to visit
her often, but when I did we used to
sit up late at night discussing Joyce, or
Lawrence, or Henry James. I can
remember listening while she read Eliot
to me, out on the veranda near her
lovely camellia-trees —she read both
prose and poetry beautifully.
Ethel Anderson was a relative of my
father. The affection between her
family and his had existed for some
generations, since they were "first-
cousins, and to us she has always been
“Cousin Ethel.” I owe more to her
than one could ever thank her for.
For years, when every moment of her
life meant so much to her. she would
read MSS. and write long letters of
advice, suggestions, criticism. Over
and over again she would mention
some writer, some book that opened-up
entirely ne\y fields.
She had great joy in creating with
words and has left us a heritage of fine
writing, culminating in the recently
published “Song of Hagar.” She. has
left us, too. all the stories, published
in “The Bulletin” and collected in
two books of “Indian Tales” and the
early Australian stories collected to-
gether in “At Parramatta.” One of
the books of Indian tales is yet to
come, so we have some of her work
to which we can still look forward.
Elyne Mitchell.
China Then
Fabers have reprinted Thomas
Woodrooffe’s River of Golden Sand,
the story, of a young sub-lieutenant’s
posting to a Yangtse Kiang gunboat
in 1919, just after the First World
War.
So much has happened in China
since the book’s first printing in 1936,
and especially to gunboats such as the
Amethyst, that Woodrooffe’s story has
acquired a soft, nostalgic patina.
Shanghai was still a rich and highly
flavored dish for Europeans, with the
longest bar in the world.
The greatest sorrow of the Austrian
family there was that their man had


BOOKS FOR YOUR PLEASURE
ESCAPE FROM HELL, by Walter Wallace
Walter Wallace, an Australian soldier, escaped from the Japanese at Sandakan and formed
his own Guerrilla Signal Unit and Coast W'atcher Station. After many dangerous adventures
and much perilous travelling, he was rescued by a U.S. submarine. His is a thrilling story
to be read with pride. 18/9d., postage lOd.
ICE PALACE, by Edna Ferber
In this fine new novel of life in a small Alaskan town, Edna Ferber has given us a lively
portrait of interesting and unusual people in an unusual setting. The pace is quick and
the story definitely one to hold the interest from first page to last. 20/-, postage lOd.
THE MOUNTAIN IS YOUNG, by Han Suyin
This is the story of Anne Forde, an appealing love story told with all the fervour that made
“A Many Splendoured Thing” so unforgettable. The Nepalese and European characters
are drawn with great insight and we are given a fascinating glimpse of the life in fabulous
Nepal. 22/6d., postage 1/-
MAGGIE-NOW, by Betty Smith
In her new novel, Betty Smith provides a study of giving and taking. Maggie-Now was
a woman with the fine, sympathetic nature of a magnificent giver. Her family and neighbours
in the Brooklyn of the turn of the century give plenty of scope for her talents. A warm,
human story of universal appeal, by the author of “A Tree Grows in Brooklyn.”
20/-, postage 1/-
Our Mail Order service is specially designed to meet the needs of country
customers. Write to us for any of the above books, or any others you may require,
on any subject, whether general or technical. We look forivard to being of
service to you.
GRAHAME BOOK COMPANY Pty. Ltd.,
39-49 Martin Place, Sydney. BW 2261.
gone home to fight with the Germans,
and the rest of the Shanghai colony
was still ostracising them.
The worse trouble the young lieu-
tenant had to face was his captain’s
drinking, which eventually brought on
a bout of delirium tremens during
which he got the gunboat firmly stuck
on a mudbank, so that he had to endure
the disgrace of being hauled off by a
tug.
On the way to this catastrophe there
is an account of how the lieutenant
was deputed to lead a boarding-party
upon a Chinese steamer whose Yankee
captain was holding-off a Customs
agent, searching for opium, at the point
of a Winchester, and of how the cap-
tain was surprised with a half-dressed
girl on each knee and his Winchester
in the comer of the room.
There are other accounts of a visit
to an English scholar who had gone
Chinese; to a Chinese governor whose
dinner-party did not conclude with the
customary orgy of dancing - girls
because the Governor had turned
Christian; and of a landing-party, a
handful of men, ordered to quell a
Chinese riot without violence. They
had to stand still while the mob pelted
them with ordure, and were saved
from worse violence only by the mob-
orator’s having his mouth accidentally
filled as he opened it to denounce the
foreigners . . .
For all of which, it still speaks of a
time when the European writ ran in
China; far away and long ago.
Reviewed Briefly
The Second Victory: Morris West
(Heinemann). A sergeant in the British
force about to occupy an Austrian
mountain town is murdered by a war-
shocked Austrian veteran. The British
commander’s hunt for the killer, who
is being shielded by most of the locals,
is only moderately exciting because it
is described from both sides. But West
is concerned here more with the nature
of justice, mercy and moral responsi-
bility in war and peace than with
thriller-writing; which is a pity, because
his very plain Catholicism, though im-
pressively sincere, produces very little
original insight into any of these things.
There are some good descriptions of
the Austrian countryside and its cus-
toms; and the characters are very life-
like on the surface; but the plot tends
to jerk them about like puppets, and
there are occasional lapses into lament-
able melodrama.
* * * K
Balthazar: Lawrence Durrell (Faber).
This, the author explains, is a sibling,
not a sequel to his previous novel about
Alexandria, “Justine.” That is to say,
it deals with the same people, at the
same time, but from a different view-
point. It is very interesting to see how
fresh evidence can change the emphasis
and meaning of events, and the rich,
exotic scene unfold as Lawrence
Durrell’s sophisticated array of wierd
characters explore the nature of modern
love. There is to be another sibling to
“Justine” and “Balthazar,” and then a
sequel, the whole composing a four-
decker novel based (according to the
author) on the relativity proposition.
Murder in Melbourne: Dulcie Gray
(Museum). The hero, flying to Mel-
bourne, wondering whether he should
marry the girl who loves him or let the
affair go on happily as of yore, finds
her dead of arsenic in her pub. There
is a mysterious Mr. Leonard who has
been squiring her round; and at a party
given by a seeming pansy the hero has
a dagger thrown at him, a young wife
faints and the beautiful redheaded
Valerie has the hero take her home,
makes much of him, sends him away
unfulfilled and retires to sleep with a
man called Guy, with whom the hero
had travelled down to Melbourne on
the plane. Curious things happen in a
gramophone-record shop, an old
woman is blackmailed, the police take
a hand, the hero is blackjacked, left
unconscious in the countryside and
driven back to Melbourne by a couple
who knew his murdered Anna; and
when he returns to his room the
mysterious Mr. Leonard falls out of his
doorway, dead. It’s a bit too compli-
cated to be satisfactorily explained;
but life, no doubt, is like that.
* * * *
The Phantom Major: Virginia Cowles
(Collins). The North African exploits
of David Stirling and his Special Air
Service deserve better chronicling than
this. The raids are vividly described,
but the whole approach to these mascu-
line operations is given a subjective,
feminine twist which jars. There are
several technical inaccuracies; and the
imaginary conversations between actual
persons are a device which is always
unsatisfactory.


•***"
“I strongly recommend
the MLC plan for
key personnel, which
my Company has adopted.”
Let the M.L.C. MAN show you
how to derive the maximum benefits ...
The tax deduction of up to £2OO or 5% of salary per
annum (whichever is greater) now allowed to a private
or public company in respect of director- or shareholder-
employees included in a properly constituted Superan-
nuation Trust. Even larger deductions may be allowed
where “special circumstances'’ can be shown to exist.
• The exclusion from death duties of Superannuation
Trust benefits.
£ An adequate retiring allowance for them at the
desired age for retirement.
Q Ample security for their dependants should they die
prior to retirement. It is of the utmost importance j
that the benefits be “Fully secured for the execu- J
live or his dependants.” The M.L.C. has available J
a form of Trust Deed which has been approved |
by the Commissioner of Taxation for this purpose §
and which can be modified to suit their special f
requirements. f
The
M.L.C.
(Incorporated in N.S.W.)
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company Limited.
Be well advised by the M.L.C. Man.
