

The Bulletin
Milking'machines and Contented Cows —page 50
Wednesday, December 3, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"This way , dear—I think I've found the front-door."


SHORT STORY WRITING
—A FASCINATING AND
PROFITABLE STUDY
Stott Students are taught how to write
stories' that sell and l are- advised by the
College of the names and addresses of
reputable Literary Agents in various
countries who may be trusted to handle
Students’ MSS. to the best advantage.
A Student wrote: “I feel that, as a result,
of taking, the Course, lam able'to go on, know-
ing what is wanted, and how to do it. / have
learned all about the market, what different
papers require ; the rates of payment, etc.”
Jf YOU have a Story to tell, learn, how
to tell it. This lucrative field of Author-
ship is waiting to pay well for good work.
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 140 Castlereagh
St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane-
-81 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St/
Berth.
mmmmmm CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON —I-
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
....AGE J SB 2358
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find It for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOKS BOUGHT
W© visit you in the City and Suburbs
Immediate Cash Payment
Valuations made for Probate
BW 7874
(After Hours JY 1131)
BERKELOUW
114 King Street, (Between Pitt and
Castiereagh Streets), Sydney.
The Red Page
ILLUSTRATIONS
In A History of Book Illustration
(Faber), David Bland takes on a tall
order, and, sumptuous as are his 427
pages of text, with their 400 illustra-
tions, 20 in color, he can fill it by only
the most rigorous selection.
One thinks, for instance, of one’s few
years as a book-collector between-wars;
notably of an edition of Gerard de
Nerval with rough lithographs by
Pearl Binder that one admired, and of
the many gay classics and Cabell
romances illustrated by Pape, whom
one didn’t admire so much—but neither
Pearl Binder nor Frank Pape, the one
little known, the other tremendously
popular in his own time, is mentioned
in this history, and when Norman
Lindsay’s Australian or London Fan-
frolico Press illustrations to Hugh
McCrae, “The Lysistrata,” etc., get no
mention, nor the brilliant and vulgar
colored drawings of Dubout, it is
obvious that Bland is making no effort
to be all-inclusive.
That he says a few kind words about
Eric Gill somewhat re-establishes him
in the reviewer’s esteem, because as a
sculptor, type-designer, decorator, illus-
trator, printer and theorist on art. Gill
was at the heart of the modern problem
of book-illustration. His solution was
as sound and simple as Georgian
architecture. In the example in this
history from “The Four Gospels”
(Golden Cockerel), it is seen as decora-
tion developed from the type he
designed himself. Where he becomes
more illustrative, as in the blocks for
the little edition of “Quia Amore
Langueo” (Faber), which one keeps be-
cause one stole from it a little book of
one’s own, not quite so religious as
Gill’s medieval poem, the style and
placement of the pictures are in keeping
with the type-page.
In this, as Bland says, Gill followed
the genius of illuminated manuscripts;
but his aim was not to reproduce
manuscript-technique- in a machine-age,
the William Morris (Kelmscott Press)
mistake, but to gain for modem print-
ing and even for machine-printing, the
unity of print, decoration and illustra-
tion that is to be found in the Lindis-
farne Gospels or such gorgeous things
as the Borso d’Este Bible of 1461 which
makes so colorful a page in this history.
It was not the machine, but the use
of the machine to produce “hand-made”
effects, that Gill disapproved of. So,
in the 20th-century examples here, it is
those which seem to rise as naturally
from the page as the type that make a
unity of story and illustration: the
woodcuts by Maillol (cut by Gill him-
self) to Virgil’s “Georgies”; the superb
white curves cut in a black background
of linoleum by Matisse for Monther-
lant’s “Pasiphae”; the Gordon Craig
“Hamlet” (Cranach Press) with the
dark pictures stripped across two pages
at the top; Eric Fraser’s full-page
Knocut for “The Castle of Fratta” that
so well balances the opposing full page
of type . . .
Still, to expect illustration to pre-
serve Bach-like and fugal purity is to
cut out a lot of lovely possibilities such
as the 1853 lithographs by Nanteuil to
Cervantes, the Beltrand colored wood-
engravings after Dufy, Farrar’s colored
linocuts for the Nonesuch “Comus,”
even the mass-produced American
“Golden Book” illustrations. In the
variety of modem techniques of illus-
tration the 20th-century part of this
history is veiy informative, from Max-
field Parrish’s way of drawing a figure-
illustration on a photographed back-
ground up to Picasso’s sugar-aquatints:
It was Roger Lacouriere who
introduced [the technique] to Picasso,
showing him how to make two
drawings in sugar, one for the grey
and a subsequent one for the black.
For the rest, there are considerations
of illuminated manuscripts in England,
Italy, Byzantium, India, China, Islam,
Japan and Spain—the extraordinary,
savage Spanish illumination by Garcia
of the Apocalypse is something not to
miss. Then comes the block-book,
each page, type and illustration, cut in
a single block of wood, to be printed
for the masses who could not afford
written books; then printed books, with
such curiosities as Simonetta’s “Franco
Sforza,” where a most elaborate
border is painted round the type-page.
For the most part, the illustrated
book deteriorates as it gets farther
from the manuscript; that an illustra-
tion is after Rubens, or Poussin, or
Rembrandt or Hogarth does not neces-
sarily bring it into keeping, or fit it
pleasingly in the page. The use of
medallions on the title-pages of 18th-
century books, with a maze of lines
and variety of types, is really horrible,
but not more horrible than the printed
decorative borders of 19th-century
books.
On the other hand, the double-page
spread by Passe illustrating a book on
fencing in 1628 is a superb example of
ingenuity in handling the middle fold
of the page; and the illustration to
Gray’s poems, a design by Bentley, in
which the scene is given through an
improbable but beautifully evolved
archway, is an example of the way in
which an illustrator can fulfil his
author’s intentions.
No doubt the exact engravings, the
square pictures which in the 18th
century gave an account, highly
finished, of a scene in the book (Grave-
lot illustrating Marmontel, Bartolozzi
illustrating Thomson’s “Seasons”) may
be as useful to historians as is the
Vatican “Virgil” in determining the
costume people wore in those periods*
but it is with illustrations as it is with
adjectives: the more completely they
qualify their subject, the more they
limit it; the more they trace it on the
page, the more they limit the imagina-
tion. For this reason there is a great
deal to be said for fragmented effects
like the lithograph by Bonnard to
poetry by Verlaine, or fantastic things
like Clerici on Marino.
Though, if fulfilling the author’s
intentions were the absolute criterion,,
many authors would probably make-
out a very good case for nothing but
abstract illustrations; for the author to
be nice and dead is not absolutely
necessary to peaceable illustration of
him, but it helps.
R. McC.
(“Red Page” continued on page 58)


? ili
wmm
: *> r'
I?
11l
• • p
, /i
■M
* ,‘ -
Wf
• -
mm.
: 8
SSSS*
•.: ■ -.
•Stiff Ip
:I h I i
n
$
v.:>¥: :
wSH
li
s
* !->
SSSSS
llil
M
, n ? ft lif
: '' ' I
JT |li
$ 1' 0
> ~! :j* i
' ’?•
fl I
sigja
mm
ZyX>
liligl
l'
v% . :
*«*?<
¥ ;::-¥i
m
mmm
■
ss
Wmmsm
mmmmm
■
wm
1
&g
V
' ■ :
llllllJl . H
500,000 th HOLDEN
TO ROYAL FLYING DOCTOR SERVICE
Record production achievement marks 10th birthday of Australia’s Own Car
November 29 this year was the tenth birthday of Australia’s Own
Car Holden. Five weeks earlier, on October 22, the 500,000 th
Holden vehicle rolled off the GMH assembly line. To mark the
occasion, General Motors-Holden’s presented the vehicle to the
Cloncurry base of the Royal Flying Doctor Service.
In the above picture, Dr. George Simpson, who flew the first mercy
flight from Cloncurry in 1927, is seen at microphone accepting the
Holden Station Sedan from Mr. Earl C. Daum, Managing Director
of General Motors-Holden’s Ltd.
It was fitting, said Mr. Daum, that the Royal Flying Doctor
Service had been selected to receive the 500,000 th Holden from many
worthy causes. Both the Royal Flying Doctor Service and Holden
are typically Australian.
As early as 1944, the Federal Government invited interested
manufacturers to submit proposals for producing motor vehicles in
Australia. General Motors accepted this invitation. The rest is
history. On November 29, 1948, the first Holden rolled off the
GMH assembly lines.
In Holden’s first ten years General Motors have ploughed back
£s7£ million into an expansion programme designed to step up
production from the original 80 Holdens a day to 465. The £9
million GMH development now in progress will further increase the
Holden production rate to 125,000 vehicles a year! When completed,
this new development will give GMH a total Australian investment
of more than £6O million . . . conclusive evidence of the Company’s
faith in Australia’s industrial potential.
GMH’s are proud to be a link in the chain of Australia’s progress
a partner in Australia’s future. 97% of the materials and parts
used in Holden vehicles are either produced in Australia by GMH
or purchased from 4,000 suppliers. Throughout Australia GMH
dealers and distributors have 15,000 people on their payrolls. Add
the 18,700 employed by GMH and the 35,000 employed by GMH
suppliers, and you have a total of nearly 70,000 people whose present
and future welfare depends, to a great degree, on the continued
manufacture and acceptance of Australia’s own car Holden.
A link in the chain of Australia’s progress
a partner in Australia's future.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
Brisbane • Sydney • Melbourne • Adelaide • Perth
XlBl


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Dec. 3, 1958
Vol. 79—No. 4112
The National Australian Newspaper
"’Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
NOW—CAHILL
A/fUCH has been written about the
devastating defeat which the
Menzies Government has inflicted on
the A.L.P. in the recent elections. Little
has yet been said about the repercus-
sions on N.S.W. Premier Cahill and his
shabby Administration.
The age. politically, is changing, as
Labor has acknowledged during the
Federal elections, through its illustrated
advertisements published in the daily
press.
The appeal was not only indicative
of Labor thinking; it was a pathetic
attempt to capture the vote of the
new youth which has never known
hardship worse than that offered by
milder versions of the five-day, 40-
hour week; its motor-cars, seats at the
tennis. League football and dogs, holi-
days in seaside resorts on the Gold
Coast and places the pre-war worker
—and the pre-NJenzies worker —had
no chance of seeing.
Labor, in fact, has been left behind
by the age.
The patronising Labor policy of
handouts appeals to an ever-more-
limited section of the community.
Except in a few large, brutally
organised industrial unions, the grip of
the union-boss is loosening as well as
that of the politician.
Only a few years ago. when the union
command ordered that there should be
no incentive-payments and bonuses,
there were no incentive-payments and
bonuses. But today, even in Cahill-
ridden N.S.W.. the once all-powerful
and Communist - dominated Miners’
Federation has been heard in the last
few months begging the employers to
please arrange incentives and other
benefits through them instead of direct
with the lodges; and the cries of the
Communist head of the union, even
when reinforced by a crowd of bad
actors smeared with coal-dust and
yelling in the Sydney Town Hall, failed
to raise nation-wide sympathy for the
unemployed in the coalfields because
the unemployed got jobs instead of
obligingly staying out of work to help
in the election-campaign.
Similarly the men of Mort’s Dock,
whom Labor and the Communists wel-
comed as an election asset, began to
disappear into new jobs almost immedi-
ately after they were thrown out of
work, and a month after the closing-
down of the plant 400 of them have
been absorbed.
TATHAT chance has “radical” Labor
with this sort of thing going on? It
has already been forced to conceal its
socialisation objective (at election-
time) and almost every plank for which
it has stood. It fought the Federal elec-
tion campaign not on Labor policy but
by trying to reproduce the achieved
Welfare State programme of its oppon-
ents on a more generous—or reckless —
scale.
In fact. Dr. Evatt fought his cam-
paign—if such it could be called—on
a Sydney “Herald” economic ' pro-
gramme. deficit-finance and all. And.
with his Leftist background strewn
with Communist associations. Dr. Evatt,
in the guise of a generous Welfare
State Liberal, looked like a hopeful
seller of lottery-tickets pushing his
wares at the annual meeting of the
Bank of New South Wales.
Yet what could the poor fellow do?
Leader of an army whose weapons
have always been grievances, where
could he get ammunition when there
were no grievances to hurl? When all
those with whom the offer of bread in
return for votes has always been effec-
tive have not only bread but a fair
helping of beer and ice-cream?
If. however. Dr. Evatt and his fol-
lowers were engaged in fighting
a forlorn hope, what of Mr. Cahill?
All through the campaign little was
heard of him. He stayed as much as
possible, along with the huddle of his
Ministers, in the comparative safety of
his Macquarie Street dugout while the
drumfire rolled overhead. Now and
then he allowed some civil servant of
the Housing Commission to poke his
nose out and throw a hunger at Senator
Spooner, but he himself showed little
disposition to come out waving his
sword in support of his ally.
Now all is different. His the task to
race boldly out to the State polls some
time before next June, stumble across
a torn political countryside still
smoking from the Federal barrage, and
pin-down the foe in the State salient.
He has been given the task of essaying
this almost barehanded.
Except for foundation-stones of
ghostly works and political bribes to
civil servants, male or female, in the
shape of higher pay, more leave and
equal pay for the sexes, he has nothing
to offer. And everybody to whom he
does offer something knows full well
that promise is not performance and
that performance depends on Mr.
Cahill’s - powers of extraction at
Premiers’ conferences and Loan
Council meetings.
It can be taken for granted that Mr.
Cahill will go to the country before
the next Canberra conference, if he
can. because with knowledge of the
limitations of his- own prowess as a
mendicant in a year of recession in wool
prices and loan-redemption, he will
much prefer to tell the electors what
he will try to do rather than what he
can do or has done.
Whether he will succeed in fixing his
own time remains to be seen. There
are so many complicating factors.
February will see the whole Labor
movement of N.S.W. plunged in
dissension over the election of a Federal
leader, carried on against a background
of sectarianism which now cannot be
avoided and which will make it hard
for even so loose-jointed a political
character as Mr. Cahill to assume the
right postures and get the kind of votes
which have been favorable to him in the
past.
A/TR. CAHILL will go to the country
with no cohesion. Mr. Clive Evatt
will be right inside his ranks armed with
bags of knowledge about the internal
history of the party. The Communist
party will line the attack-route, its
pockets jingling while it shouts induce-
ments to the hungry Labor units whose
party funds have been depleted to the
bone by the financial demands of the
Evatt campaign.
Mr. Cahill’s Fred Karno army will
go into battle so draped with Com-
munist cheer-leaders that it will be
difficult, as it was in the Federal cam-
paign. sometimes to tell which is
Communist and which is Labor
combatant.
Altogether, his prospects are not
bright. His record as a leader is
deplorable. His troops are ill-
disciplined and of the kind whose rule
is every man for himself.
He has assured, by his various
measures affecting liberty of criticism,
culminating in the Defamation Act. that
the press will be solidly against him—
even the “Sydney Morning Herald.”
He has virtually no reserve strength.
His existing majority is only three.
And he has various bits of lead in
his boots such as land-tax, increases in
public-transport fares and transport
taxes. Such handicaps do not help a
general when charging over shell-torn
ground in the face of an enemy which,
although it is not strong as Oppositions
go, would have to be weak indeed if it
could not take on a shabby and dis-
credited mob like that which calls itself
the N.S.W. Parliamentary Labor Party.


"ARE YOU ANY GOOD AT TENNIS, BERT?"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Queensland Electoral
Boundaries
A bill to provide for a redistribution of
Queensland electorates was introduced by
Premier Nicklin last week. The number
of Assembly seats, now 75, will be
increased to 78, Brisbane gaining four
seats and the country losing one.
The four zones which the Labor Gov-
ernment introduced in 1949 and which
were largely instrumental in keeping the
A.L.P. in power are abolished. The zone
system is retained, but on a different
basis. The metropolitan area will still
constitute one zone ; the provincial cities
will be a second zone and the rest of the
State a third. In the provincial zone
Ipswich, Rockhampton, Toowoomba and
Townsville will each have two seats;
Bundaberg, Cairns, Mackay and Mary-
borough one each. The rural zone will
contain 38 seats.
The introduction of the bill saw the
unusual spectacle of a Country-party
Premier defending an increase in the
number of city electorates and the even
more unusual spectacle of Labor mem-
bers objecting to it.
Liberal influence in the coalition
explains the first of these two phenomena;
Labor chagrin at a likely decline in the
influence of mining pockets in determin-
ing the representation in rural districts
the second.
Under the present four-zone system the
position was reached in 1956 where Labor
held nine out of 10 seats in the Western
zone and 10 out of 13 in the Northern
zone. In the full Assembly 49 of the 75
members were A.L.P. men. Yet at that
time in the Federal Parliament, Labor
held only five of the 18 Queensland seats
in the House of Representatives and was
outvoted in the Senate poll by 370,000
votes to 282,000.
When Opposition - leader Duggan
accused the Nicklin Government of
designing the bill to save its political
skin, Nicklin interjected: “You have a
chance under the bill. We had none
under yours.”
A three-man . commission will be
appointed shortly to prepare a redistribu-
tion plan in accordance with the pro-
visions of the bill.
West Berlin's Peril
It seems too early to say yet whether
the Russian move to hand-over West
Berlin, which is occupied by the British,
French and United States, is really
serious in its implications or another
device to distract attention from other
and vaster Communist movements.
Much more important to the world
is the development of the new stage of
Mao’s clamping - down of Communism
and brainwashing of the Chinese popu-
lation, which is in full swing at the
moment and apparently accompanied by
brutality similar to that which charac-
terised the period of the immolation of
the kulaks in Russia.
What is taking place in China is as
little understood as what is taking place
in Berlin. There sovereignty of East
Berlin is to be handed-over to the East
Germans in six months, and it is sug-
gested the occupation - forces must be
withdrawn from West Berlin so that it
can become a “free city”—free at the
mercy of its Communist masters who
would not waste 10 .minutes before they
began to liquidate every element which
did not give slavish allegiance and
obedience to Moscow and its servants.
It may be argued that West Berlin
is of little interest to the West and that
it is absurd that the city should remain
dismembered and separated from sur-
rounding territory which ruthless repres-
sion has steadily Communised.
But there is more to it than that. West
Berlin sees beyond the Brandenburg Gate
what Communism is; its miseries and
its hunger and shabbiness, its dis-
appearances and its brutalities. It has
seen over 3,000,000 people escape from
the harshness of East Germany to the
West. Its much - more - than -a - million
people, if they were asked to vote, would
return an overwhelming majority for re-
maining in the West.
In dealing with them the good faith
of the Western nations is at stake, apart
from the lives and freedom of hundreds
of thousands who, the moment Allied
troops are withdrawn —or forced out in
breach of agreement under the Four
Power arrangements—may be murdered
or shoved into cattle-trucks to be sent
off to the labor-camps of the Arctic.
Furthermore, to give way would be
to end all hope finally of unity for Ger-
many and all hope of future trust of
the Western wartime Allies by Western
Germans.
— .
Elizabethan Theatre Trust
Even its best friends will concede that,
while the Australian Elizabethan Theatre
Trust has done very nicely in the realms
of opera, its record with straight plays
has been patchy indeed. Since recog-
nising a problem is the first move
towards solving it, it was encouraging
to hear Mr. Hugh Hunt, the Trust’s
director, admit the other day that “we
reaily haven’t succeeded up to now in
cracking the drama problem.”
In search of a solution, the Trust is
forming a permanent company of eight
players to be known as the Trust Players,
which will present a season of five plays
between March and August next year.
Other players will be added when and
if needed. Robin Lovejoy, a talented
young producer who, like many other
currently successful Sydney stage people,
came up through May Hollinworth’s
Metropolitan Theatre in its good days,
has been appointed resident producer.
Between them, Mr. Hunt and Mr.
Lovejoy explained that the policy of the
company will be to avoid as far as
possible the ground already trodden by
the commercial and little theatres ; to
concentrate on Australian plays; to
limit performances to one month, keep-
ing the best in stock for revival from
year to year as “Australian classics
to tour the most successful plays of the
season; to create something in which
players, producers and audiences will
work together and gain experience from
their teamwork ; and to establish “habit
audiences ” who will come to regard the
company as “a possession of Sydney.”
At the company’s headquarters, the
Elizabethan Theatre at Newtown, 200
seats are to be removed from the back
of the stalls to provide additional foyer
space and amenities for audiences, prices
will be reduced and subscription tickets
will be available. The scheme is a “pilot”
one and will be confined to Sydney for
the first year. In the first season there
will definitely be two Australian plays—-
possibly three —including the winner of
the General Motors-Holden’s award.
The Abbey influence is obvious, and
the objectives, particularly the concen-
tration on Australian plays, appear to
be generally commendable. It was par-
ticularly heartening to hear Mr. Lovejoy
remark that there has been a tremendous
growth in the number of Australian plays
submitted to the. Trust and that, in the
last eight weeks, he had seen a number
worth considering.
A national theatre must begin with
its playwrights, of course, and for them
nothing succeeds like success, particu-
larly financial. The record of “The
Doll,” together with the considerable
prizes offering in several places for plays,
have no doubt had much to do with
generating the current enthusiasm. If the
Trust can keep it going it will be on the
way to “cracking the drama problem.”
The British Council
In the conference-room of the Rural
Bank, the president of the Arts Council
of Australia, Mr. Douglas Dundas, with
Mrs. Dundas and Miss Dorothy Helm-
rich, welcomed guests at a farewell to
the representative in Australia of the
British Council, Mr. C. A. F. Dundas,
C.8.E., and Mrs. Dundas, bitterly
lamenting that all the time he had been
in Australia Mr. Dundas had been stuck
away up in Canberra, where they
couldn’t get at him. The N.S.W. Minis-
ter for Education, Mr. Heffron, said
much the same thing, hoping that if,
as seemed possible, a successor were
detailed to a State capital, it would be
a beautiful, brilliant city like Sydney
and not a gloomy, lifeless town like
Melbourne.
Mr. Dundas said that the British
Council had gone out of the business
of bringing people out since this was
being done now by other interests;
during his term the main shows that
had been arranged were an exhibition
of British scientific books, and one of
young British painters that was still to
come. The British Council was now
concentrating on the interchange of
English and Australian teachers and pro-
fessors —an Australian bursar, for in-
stance, was being financed abroad for
six months to study the relationship
between schools and museums —and on


[For election matter in this issue requiring
signature, David Adams, of 252 George Street,
Sydney, is responsible.]
arranging introductions, etc., for Austra-
lian artists travelling abroad.
One thing he was taking back with
him, he said in conversation with The
Bulletin, was a subscription to the
paper —his faith in it as an eye-opener
to overseas opinion about Australia was
quite impressive.
Victorian Self-help
[From R. Michel]
“Self-help” is an old-fashioned prin-
ciple that tends to lose its appeal in the
face of flabby hand-out practices ; but
lately it has been given a new lease of
life in Victoria’s community affairs. As
a result of the efforts of the little-
publicised Develop Victoria Council,
self-help in modern shape has moved to
a front position in the affairs of progres-
sive municipalities, where it is stimulat-
ing support for community projects.
The Develop Victoria' Council came
into being 2\ years ago, when the Vic-
torian Employers’ Federation organised
a group of people who believed in
balanced local-development and were
ready to provide expert guidance in prob-
lems of community-betterment.
From the outset the council adopted
the self-help principle. Three very suc-
cessful annual conferences (1956, 1957
and 1958) have been attended by large
audiences made up of both country and
city interests.
So successful has the council educa-
tional and promotional work been that
there is now a much more widespread
acceptance of the self-help approach.
Victoria has at last come back to the
old truth that the group prepared to do
things for itself will best succeed in
getting things done. The idea of reliance
on Governments for everything has
faded.
Operating without any substantial
funds, the Develop Victoria Council has
launched a 40-page publication entitled
Start Now. It is described as a
community-development manual, and it
gives expert and practical advice on the
issues that must be met by- any com-
munity that aims at higher cultural and
general standards, enlarged business
opportunities and the more intense
development of its resources.
Not always, the council insists, is
development best sought in the form of
secondary industry. For some areas in-
tensified and better-balanced rural effort
is the correct objective—for the present,
anyway.
The answer to the recurring problem
of the “next step” can be solved best
by the findings deduced from a com-
munity inventory. Start Now sets out
just what the inventory is, and what it
can do for any town. A step-by-step
programme for inventory-taking is given.
Start Now also has practical recom-
mendations on such matters as
community - development by promotion,
education and research, and the role and
functions of a local “development coun-
cil.” On the latter subject, the council
is emphatic on the need for spreading
participation in community affairs. The
manual says: “When you form a
community - development association,
your aim is not to gather together a lot
of people who will take your instructions.
What you want is people who desire to
participate fully ; to take part not only
in the physical work, but also in the
creation and development of ideas. Your
job is not to tell people what ought to
be done, but to help the community
establish its own goals. . . . All groups
should be made to appreciate that their
ideas are wanted and will be treated with
respect.”
Mr. F. G. James, managing-director
of Cleckheaton, Ltd. (an English textile
Economic Lifesaving
Drugs—page 20
firm that was transplanted to Sheppar-
ton), writes on how to attract capital
for country industry, and there is a
detailed description of community public-
relations in action. The stimulus pro-
vided by such efforts as the contest for
Victoria’s Premier Town and the Com-
munity Service Award is explained. The
council itself sponsored the first Premier
Town contest earlier this year, and the
V.C.S.A. is a Victorian Employers’
Federation award about to be launched.
The Develop Victoria Council’s leader-
ship has already had a profound effect
on the general approach to local affairs
in Victoria, and through Start Now its
spirit of individual effort can reach a
wider audience. Start Now can be
obtained (3s. 9d., post-free) from the
Develop Victoria Council, 342 Flinders
.Street, Melbourne, C.l, with a concession
rate for quantities.
The Living—Not the Dead
[From M. H. Ellis]
Though the new N.S.W. Defamation Bill
is a clumsy and disjointed piece of
legislation which ought to be withdrawn
for further consideration, the clause
which has caused most outcry is cer-
tainly not the one that calls for criticism.
It is taken straight from Sir Samuel
Griffith’s Defamation Act passed without
demur from anybody through both
Houses of the Queensland Parliament in
1889.
It is a matter for historical curiosity
that Griffith was then Leader of the
Opposition and had been asked by the
Mcllwraith Government to draft and
introduce it. If Mr. Sheahan had been as
lucid in his second-reading speech as
Griffith was, perhaps it might have saved
him a lot of trouble.
The clause of the.new N.S.W. code is
in the exact wording of Griffith's Act:
(5) Any imputation concerning any
person, or any member of his family,
whether living or dead, by which the
reputation of that person is likely to be
injured, or by which he is likely to be
injured in his profession or trade, or by
which other persons are likely to be induced
to shun or avoid or ridicule or despise
him is called defamatory, and the matter
of the imputation is called defamatory
matter.
The position then is this: (u) that it is
not de facto actionable merely to defame
the dead —not even, as one gentleman
whose literary affairs are causing a lot of
concern did recently, to brigade William
Charles Wentworth, Australia’s greatest
Constitutional statesmen (whom he obvi-
ously mistook for another Wentworth), as
a “racketeer” in the same gallery with
a mining-speculator and people like
W. P. Crick ; ( b) that it is necessary that
what is said or written should tend to
damage someone living ; (c) that a jury
is prepared to find the words defamatory
of the living plaintiff as a question of
fact.
The principles, though not expressed
in English and N.S.W. law in so many
words, are there already, as Lord Kenyon
showed in Cowper’s case. Griffith took
his section from the Indian Civil Code.
Griffith himself emphasised the pur-
pose of the section. He said that it was
fair that the law should make it clear
that a man should be able to defend him-
self, say, against an imputation that his
father and mother lived in incest, since it
affected himself.
Even te say that a father was a
drunkard or an ancestor a convict would
scarcely prima facie injure a living man’s
reputation unless the character of his
forebear were attributed to him by
implication or direct statement or
association.
How little there is for honest
biographers or historians or their pub-
lishers to fear is best indicated by the
hard facts. We Queenslanders until
recent times were not restrained in ex-
pressing our opinions of the characters
of our political enemies or of their
ancestry. Griffith’s Act has been in force
69 years. I cannot recall a single action
under the section. I doubt, in fact, if
one journalist or author or publisher
whose writings are published and circu-
lated locally in Queensland or sent into
the State from other States is aware that
the provision exists expressly in words in
Queensland law. The section is in Tas-
manian law also. Has anybody heard of
an action there which could not have
been taken in any case?
I am no more frightened either as a
historian or as a journalist than I was
before Mr. Sheahan appeared on the
scene. There is nothing in his new clause
to induce me to take any precaution that
I did not take before.
At the same time, the position of the
defamation law as a whole in Australia
is muddled and unsatisfactory, and it
seems time that the States and the Federal
law authorities got together and drafted
a Commonwealth Act establishing modern
principles.
Freedom of speech is essentially a
national, not a regional, heritage in a
nation which claims “one flag, one
destiny,” and in which campaigns, poli-
tical and otherwise, have to be conducted
on Federal issues and comment published
in national journals sometimes finds itself
subject to the rigors and quirks of half-
a-dozen miscellaneous Acts qualified by
rulings of appeal courts right up to the
Privy Council.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
'T'he dictionaries and H. W. Fowler
say the right plural for such
nouns as handful, spoonful, cupful
is handfuls, etc., not handsful, etc. But
in spite of this I liked the precision of
the journalist who, at press-conferences,
used to ask: “Are there any handsout
today, Mr. Prime Minister?” —“Fontaine.”
♦> ❖ ❖
“Wandana”: Hobart City Council has
given permission for its coat-of-arms to
be painted on a Qantas airliner, “The
City of Hobart.” It will be one of seven
new U.S. jet-airliners travelling on round-
the-world routes next year, named after
Australian cities, including Canberra, and
expected to help in advertising this
country and suggesting something of its
color and history to people overseas.
Qantas has assured Hobart’s Lord Mayor
that the arms “will be worn with dignity”;
but with other Australian cities one could
name it might be more proper to seek
such an assurance in reverse.
❖ ❖ *!«
“Dorian”: I don’t want to underrate
the Christmas, 1958, 4d. postage-stamp,
with the excellent grouping of adoring
Magi gazing at the child in swaddling-
clothes against a purple background, but
will someone please tell me why there
are always three Wise Men? In the case
of a postage-stamp I don’t suppose you
could fit too many more in; at any
rate, the Bible makes no mention of
a specific number. It merely says “Wise
Men,” which could mean anything from
two to 22. Doubtless the fact that they
brought gold, frankincense and myrrh
leads people to believe that three men
each carried one of the gifts.
<B* ♦> *■>
“Bo”: He was a true magsman, and
why he hasn’t abandoned the polished
counters of commerce for the soporific
benches of Canberra must remain a
mystery. Seeing me dithering dubiously
among festoons of neckwear he came
across, selected a tie, knotted it around his
finger and launched into encomiums,
“I’m no art-lover —I merely came for the sherry."
emphasising the difference the wearing of
such a beautifully cut, lined and finished
article would make to me. It was a
perfect foil for my coloring; the stripes
would lend me added height; it would do
something for me ; it combined a tasteful
elegance with a touch of adventurous-
ness. Which of my suits had I in mind
for its use—a charcoal, blue-grey . . . ?
“I do have a suit for every day in the
week,” I said modestly, “and it happens
to be the one I’m wearing.” Then, greatly
daring, I reached over and hauled one off
the five-bob rack. “You can wrap that
up,” I ordered. “It will go well with my
khaki shorts and morning-coat.” Never
have I seen a human eye light up so
vividly with scorn; the fierce way he
grabbed the fiddly he damn’ near wrung
Dr. Coombs’s neck. After all, a man is
a goat buying a tie a month before
Christmas!
“P.0.M.C.”: I notice that this year
some of Sydney’s big stores are featuring
do-it-yourself toys that a 10-year-old
Bachelor of Engineering could put
together.
♦l* »j* «•>
“Central”: Sydney buildings have
much more than windows to interest the
passer-by: in Hunter Street the Jewish
fraternity, in addition to the year 1909,
placed on the high-up date-block of the
Blashki Building the year commemorating
that from the start of creation —5669.
In George Street the foundation-stone
of the Queen Victoria Building was also
set up high, and it must have required
quite a lot of staging to accommodate
the officials who were there at that time,
Do any of you readers -remember how
Mayor Ives performed that ceremony
of long years ago?
A A
“Wallboard”: Suppose I may as well
go to the twilight race-meetings to be
introduced in Sydney. After all, I seem
to have been picking ’em in the dark for
years.
DO IT YOURSELF
“Make your own presents this Christmas.” —
Handyman article.
Christmastide is nearing
With its usual waste,
Tie and bag and ear-ring
Full of lack of taste —
Why don’t we arrange things
Better than we do ?
You don’t have to change things
Made for you by you.
So, this Christmas, reader,
Be particular,
Get some bits of cedar,
Make a little bar,
Whisky, gin and brandy
On its little shelf —
Wrap it up like candy ;
Send it to yourself.
Christmas Day comes beaming —
What a big surprise !
See the lovelight gleaming
In your tender eyes !
Happy thanks are panted:
“Psychic, you must be !
Just the thing / wanted —
Oh, you thoughtful me!”
N.S.W
SWILLIAM.


A publican in the outer Sydney
suburb of Merrylands has set a
good example by giving his new pub a
good Australian name: Billabong.
Strangely enough, I’ve yet to find an
Australian pub named the Koala or the
Wattle. —“Eureka.”
<£»
“O’Johnno”: While feminine allure
progresses by putting on as little as
possible, scented soaps and beauty-aids
are dressing in more and more frocks
and petticoats ... A perfumed soap the
wife uses has first to be divested of a
gleaming colored-and-gold wrapper, then
a second skirt of shiny material is care-
fully removed, and finally a filmy piece
of tissue peeled off before it enters the
soap-dish. It costs twice as much as it
did when it lay naked and unashamed,
without even a bikini, amongst similar
soap-cakes on the shop counter; but
just how much the fancy set-up has
increased its sales I don’t know. Sweets,
too—even the good old boiled lollies
flaunt cloth-of-gold . . . some say health
authorities demand it; but probably
youngsters feel that it’s in a higher social
class, and of course there’s always the
satisfaction of being able to tear off the
sticky paper coverings and scatter them
over theatre-seats or bus-floors.
“Mugga Way”: Not everyone on
Queensland’s “Gold Coast” is happy.
Businessmen have complained to the
council about the noise from late-night
cabarets and roadhouses, one saying that
the only alternatives are “to take sleep-
ing pills or shift.” Another said six
guests had walked out of his apartments
after a couple of nights of nearby row,
and an estate-agent said he lost nearly
three-stone, and now suffered nervous
disorders because of the din from a road-
house.
♦J>
“Sevenelms”: Whether or not Dad
accompanies Mum into any Mikimoto
pearl-shop in Japan, the gift that grace-
fully concludes any transaction is always
a man’s scarf. It is a realistic apprecia-
tion that, present or not, Pop’s the one
who digs.
«j« ♦'*
“H.J.McI.”: I’m sure many Old
Diggers were interested in the article “A
Digger’s Last Wish,” by John Laffin (B.
12/11/ ’58)., Allonville on the Somme is
well, known to 'thousands of the A.1.F.,
as it was an assembly-point during the
first war and many were billeted in that
locality. Allonville was shelled in the
early hours of May 31, 1918, and accord-
ing to my diary 36 were killed and 100
wounded, mostly members of the 14th
Battalion. There was great consternation
among the civilian population on that
night—and after the bombardment the
villagers left. I always understood that
the Allonville Chateau was the French
county-seat of Mr. Hennessy of the
3-star brandy fame, and it was the barns
of the chateau which were shelled on
that eventful night. I have a tender spot
for Allonville, for it was there I met a
mademoiselle (Mile. Yvonne Langlet) to
whom I’ve been writing regularly ever
since. Yvonne now lives in Paris, her
parents having died, but her sister still
lives in Allonville, and Yvonne returns
to her old home every year. She occa-
“Oops!”
sionally mentions that it is the practice
of the residents to place flowers on the
graves of the Australian soldiers buried
in the cemetery. •Incidentally, one of the
officers (Lt. Masters) of my company
(Wireless Section Aust. Corps Signal
Coy.) was killed at Allonville and is
buried there.
♦J+
“Birubi”: Melbourne detectives who
found traces of red nail-varnish on the
hands of a skeleton of a woman found
in a park deduced that the woman “was
young. ’ Let’s hope they’re not always
so naive. In quiet little Hobart I saw
a grandma whose nails reminded me of
a purple people-eater who had been eat-
ing purple people without the customary
knife and fork.
«£♦
“Kate”: Friend had just entered the
consulting-room when the well-known
Melbourne doctor was called away on
an emergency case. No sooner had she,
the doctor, got back, than the telephone
rang and after several calls in as many
minutes the doctor turned to my friend,
saying, “Now, if you’re in a hurry, my
dear, how about slipping down to the
telephone-box on the corner and ringing
me up?”
“Kinta”: Mystery surrounds three old
violins labelled “Stradivarius,” unearthed
in the A.C.T. recently. One owned by
Mrs. West, of Tharwa, bears the inscrip-
tion, "Antonius Stradivarius Cremonentis
Faciebat Anno 1716” and a symbol con-
sisting of a circle containing a cross over
the letters “AS.” This belonged to Mrs.
West’s mother, who is 93 years of age.
She had the violin when or before she
was married 60 years ago. Violins owned
by Mrs. Neuss, also of Tharwa (1722),
and Mr. Wiggins, of Narrabundah (1736),
bear similar markings, with the exception
that the figure, apparently meant to indi-
cate the year, is different in each instance.
❖ »> <♦
“Imperial 55”: Things are bad, all
right. Wool isn’t bringing boom prices,
there’s a drought forecast, the country
will have to tighten its belt and face-up
to cold, hard facts. How do I know?
Two boys applied for a job in our office.
It was a written application, written by
one boy and signed by both! When it
starts to hit kids of 16 like that, things
are really getting tough.
* *:♦ v *
“Louie the Louse”: Just how serious
can TV get with some people? Operating
a late-night service, I got a call from a
retired businessman: “Please send some-
one out tonight to service our set,” he
begged, “otherwise the wife and I won’t
have anything to do but go to bed.”
*J *j» **♦
“Piketrailer” (Bahrein): The furore in
Italy because Monty has referred in his
memoirs to the poor fighting-quality of
the Italian divs. at El Alamein made me
think of the lone A.I.F. soldier’s battle-
cry, quoted in Gavin Long’s first War
History volume, To Benghazi, as he
stood over a bunker at Bardia: “Look
out, bludgers, I’m coming in after you!”
However, as Monty has now pointed out
via an oil-on-troubled-waters letter to the
British Ambassador in Rome, the Italian


soldier tended to fight badly in the last
contest because he was ill - equipped,
badly led and had no heart for the
Musso cause. It’s a fair bet that any
army that sports three different ration-
scales, for privates, n.c.o.s and officers,
as Musso’s legions did, has a lot wrong
with it. And it’s always beat me that a
nation famed for its mechanics and
craftsmen could produce tanks through-
out the war that were contemptuously
branded, by friend and foe alike, “tin
cans.”
* *> ❖
“E. & 0.E.”: Reading They’re a Weird
Mob with both interest and enjoyment,
I can yet sympathise with Nino’s opinion
“And this is the Ministry of Agriculture."
that the Australians don’t speak English.
Australian, as reported, is often as sur-
prising to me as to him. A newie is
ending a sentence with “but.” Pat re-
marks of brunettes: “Generally got
hairy legs but.” Pages later Dennis
decides on a similar theme: “Different
bodywork but.”
A A
V V V
“P.0.M.C.”: That address, 681 Pitt
Street, isn’t unique—either in Sydney or
Australia (B. 12/11/’5B). There’s 35y
Burwood Road, Burwood (Sydney) a
service-station with about 200 ft. frontage
—and another in Maroubra
(Sydney). Melbourne has several.
“Nexta”: A house in Lambert Street,
Bathurst, is numbered 2Tl\. As the
entrance is between No. 225 and 227,
I’ve always thought that it should have
been numbered 2254 — however, my
opinions don’t count. Another oddity
in house-numbering will be found right
opposite, where two adjoining houses (no
vacant blocks between) are numbered 176
and 186 Lambert Street.
“Spin”: The 24-hour pilots' strike
didn’t ground every airline in Australia.
Captain Jimmy Woods, the veteran who
operates a nine-seater Anson on the Perth-
Rottnest run (at 25 miles it’s the
shortest commercial air - route in the
world) isn’t a member of the Air Pilots’
Association and his “line” operated as
usual. Woods is an institution in W.A.
He was in the search for the Southern
Cross when Smithy made a forced land-
ing in the Kimberleys in 1929 ; and he
was called in when the Kobenhavn was
missing on the run from Montevideo to
Australia. A five-masted barque with a
diesel auxiliary, famous as the cadet-
training ship for the Danish merchant-
fleet, she was last reported 900 miles
west of Tristan da Cunha, on December
22, 1928, with everything going well.
No trace has been found since. Months
after her disappearance, Jimmy was
chartered to search the W.A. coast for
signs of wreckage, but he didn’t raise a
clue.
❖ ❖ *
“M.E.C.”: Cheap meals in Sydney,
pre-War 1 (B. 12/11/’58): Three courses
for Is. at Walker’s in Park Street was
good value, but not the best. Gilham’s
several eating-houses turned-on three
courses without any frills for 6d. But
best value of all was the bowl of stew
which went with a 3d. pint of beer at
Belfield’s pub in King Street. Particu-
larly as you didn’t always need the 3d.
. . . during'the midday rush you grabbed
an empty pint-pot from the bar-counter,
caught the barman’s eye —and there was
vour stew.
❖ * *
“C.L.G.”: The Bangalow Hotel (N.S.W.)
became the “pub with no beer” when 80
young Methodists took it over as their
headquarters for a Crusader camp;
draped their banner along the balcony
and erected a cross in front of the build-
ing. The hotel was condemned six
months ago and is to be demolished be-
cause of white-ants, sinking floors and
other hazards. The girls were accom-
modated in the 12 rooms upstairs ; the
boys in the downstairs rooms, including
the bar. During the weekend several
motorists called-in for refreshments, but
such spirit as was available was neither
motor-spirit nor driver-spirit.
“Fontaine”: I nominate St. Kilda
(Vic.) as the most literary suburb in
Australia . . . Streets: Chaucer, Addison,
Milton, Goldsmith, Spencer, Coleridge,
Cowper, Shelley, Byron, Burns, Dickens,
Thackeray, Southey, Scott, Tennyson,
Wordsworth, Ruskin, Kendall, Daley,
Lawson. Groves: Shakespeare, Poet’s.
And if you regard Alfred Austin as a
poet, there’s Austin Avenue.
❖ ❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: Whenever I hear poli-
ticians, philosophers and peasants spout-
ing about our glorious democracy I suffer
them ungladly because of the transparent
class-consciousness between divisions of
the public service and the stolid or
passive resistance of people inside
crowded suburban trains to people out-
side trying to get in. If these are criteria,
democracy either died with the ancient
Greeks or has never been born.
A NON-MOVING STORY
“A • competitor in an international chess-
tourney held in Switzerland was disqualified for
swearing.”
He who gets savage at the cost
Of valuable bishop lost
May jump on hats
Or gnash his tatts,
Or boot the nearest fummy ;
Bounce off opponent’s handy dome
Some heavy object made of chrome;
Or tear his hair —
But never swear.
That’s right enough for rummy.
But those with yen for pushing pawns
About the board between the yawns
In atmosphere
That’s quite austere —
One might say monasterial —
Must needs abjure the crudity
Of naughty words that start with B
Which scarcely sorts
With genteel sports
That tend to the funereal.
Now, had he thought to emulate
Some tennis stars in venting hate,
And bitten through
A queen or two.
And then the board had riven,
They’d have acknowledged he’d been rent
Simply by good old temperament,
So, sans remorse,
He’d have, of course,
Been handsomely forgiven.
n.s.w.
S.W.K.


A Vintage Teenager Tells
“We Had It Tough”
By OLIVER FILTER
I was going crook at the
young bloke. I’ve forgotten
what for, but 1 was going
crook anyway it’s a
parent’s duty to do so regu-
larly.
“You young fellows don’t
know when you're well off,”
1 said. “You get everything
handed to you on a plate—
plenty of jobs, good wages,
not a worry in the world.”
I grabbed the “Herald” I'd
been reading. “And look at
this. Apprenticeship commis-
sioners to look after you;
employers to see that you’re
properly trained ; parents and
employers to co-operate to see
you make a good citizen. We
never had anything like that
when I was your age. D’you
know what 1 had to do? I
had to drive an old bomb ali
over the State looking for a
job. And when I found one
1 had to work. My word l
did. And there were times
when we didn’t eat if we
couldn’t shoot our tucker.
What would you young blokes
do if you had to shape-up to
that sort of thing?”
“It sounds beaut,” he said.
“I’ll bet you enjoyed every
minute of it.”
He was right, of course.
Maybe it seems better in retro-
spect than it was, but the
recollection, even if it’s a bit
rosy, is worth having.
Depression time, actually, or
a bit after the worst of it,
when jobs were still so scarce
you almost needed political
influence to get a place on the
driving end of a shovel. Bill
and I sure needed jobs. After
specking the field we dis-
covered that the chap courting
an aunt of mine was Govern-
ment inspector in a large out-
fit working on a Government
contract. We got a shovel each
and a ditch to dig on the basic
wage—a bit over £3 10s., I
think, and good dough, too.
The ditch was actually a storm-
water drainage - channel, and
after a couple of weeks in it
we felt we were in a rut.
“The thing to do,” Bill said,
“is to go north. Away from
the city. Too many blokes
looking for work down here.”
I agreed. “How do we go?”
“Well buy a car,” he said.
'T'hat was a wild-’un, because
with that week’s pay we
only had a bank of £l5 be-
tween us. Still, Bill had a lead,
and that night we called on a
character who had a 1924
T-model in his backyard.
She was up on blocks, and
going by the rust - streaked
body and wind-tattered hood,
she’d been on them for a long
time. But she had a sort of
personality and we gladly
forked-out eleven-quid for her.
We worked on her for a few
days where she stood, and
came the moment for Bill to
turn her over. He heaved the
crank a few times without
result, and, becoming im-
patient, grabbed it with both
hands and swung it furiously,
as though he were winding-up
a clockwork engine. He swung
so hard, in fact, that he belted
his chin on one of the head-
lights, and then staggered
around abusing the old girl.
It was my turn. I engaged
the crank carefully, turned it
until I felt the compression,
and then heaved. The old
bitch backfired and the crank
took me on the elbow. 1
thought my arm had fallen off.
We treated her with more
respect after that, and suddenly
she coughed, spluttered and
roared to life.
The eleven-quid didn’t leave
much in our bank, and we
needed tucker and petrol,
Ratting the family larder
wasn’t the sort of thing you
did in days when there wasn’t
much in it, anyway, so we
laid-out most of our dough
on tucker, and, with a length
of hose and a two-gallon tin,
milked a few of the more
opulent cars in the darker spots
around the picture - theatres,
We finished-up with eight four-
gallon tins of petrol in the
back of Liz. I’ve been milked
two or three times myself in
later years, and so long as
there was enough left in the
tank to reach a garage I’ve
remained philosophical about
it.
Anyway, stocked with petrol,
tucker, clobber and a
couple of rifles, we left the city
about 4 a.m. and headed north,
Our early departure through
the city was tactical —we
couldn’t afford to register Liz.
even if she had been register-
able, and neither Bill nor I
had driving-licences.
True to type, the old girl
boiled pretty soon, and a
pennant of steam trailed from
the radiator; also, the breeze
generated by our maximum
speed of 35 m.p.h. ripped the
hood away at the back, so
that it flapped out behind like
agitated tailfeathers.
But we had no real problems
for the first 50 miles or so.
Then the exhaust came away
at the manifold, and examina-
tion revealed that it was rusted
rotten and couldn’t be replaced
in position without more
equipment and skill than we
had.
So we just kept going, with
Liz now bellowing so loudly
that cows a mile away turned
(Continued on page 44)
“ Whacko! Civilisation at last! There's th ’ good old Horseshoe Goldmine."


POLITICAL POINTS
On Monday counting in the doubtful
Federal seats was in the final stages, with
distribution of second-preferences (mostly
D.L.P.) about to begin. Estimates of the
proportion of D.L.P. and Q.L.P. seconds
likely to go to the Government ranged
from 70 to 80 per cent. The proportion
was likely to be highest in Victoria ;
lowest in N. S. Wales. On that basis
P. W. Stokes was still given a chance of
holding Maribyrnong—in 1955 he got 82
per cent, of the D.L.P. prefs.—but Bruce
Graham’s prospects in St. George looked
rather forlorn.
Kalgoorlie, long a Labor stronghold,
proved one of the surprises of the elec-
tion. In 1955 H. V. Johnson (A.L.P.) held
it easily with 17,033 votes against 10,844
scored by Independent H. Illingworth.
On Monday F. W. Collard, Johnson’s
successor as A.L.P. choice, held only
12,416 votes; Illingworth had scored
2039; Berkhout (D.L.P.) 3346; P. G,
Browne (Lib.) 10,212. Apart from the
emergence of the D.L.P. vote these figures
show what a large proportion of Vic.
Johnson's tally was a personal vote ; also
that most of Illingworth’s votes at that
election came from Liberal supporters.
Collard’s chance of winning depends on
the split-up of Illingworth’s preferences ;
most of Berkhout’s will go to Browne.
Of the other doubtful seats the Govern-
ment should gain Griffith (Q.) and Stir-
ling (W.A.) and retain Braddon (Tas.).
Labor should hold Barton (N.S.W.) and
Leichhardt (Q.). Moore (W.A.) looks like
passing from the Country party to the
Liberals as the how-to-vote card of the
A.L.P. candidate W. A. Bennett placed
Liberal H. V. Halbert before sitting
member H. A. Leslie.
• •
Tasmanian Libs, didn’t indicate any
order of preference for their three Senate
candidates, but merely told their sup-
porters to give them their first three votes
according to personal preference. On the
primary count A. E. Lillico and Senator
Marriott were running neck and neck,
with Senator Wordsworth several thousand
votes behind. Wordsworth's election
depended on Senator Cole (D.L.P.) falling
short of a quota —and that didn't happen.
• •
On Friday the D.L.P. announced that
it would be in the field for the N. S.
Wales State election. Earlier its leaders
had said that its decision would be
influenced by the result of the Federal
poll. There was not much to encourage
Kane and co. in the Federal voting—
the D.L.P. got only 5.3 per cent, of
the votes in N. S. Wales —but they’re
giving it a go.
Although that 5.3 per cent, doesn’t
indicate much likelihood of the D.L.P.
winning any State seats, it is enough to
give Cahill and his colleagues the jitters.
Labor’s majority in the N. S. Wales
Assembly (excluding Speaker Lamb) isi
seven when the two Independent Labor
members support it; three when they
don’t.
At the last election six A.L.P. seats
were won with majorities of less than
600.
In announcing the D.L.P.’s decision,
secretary J. T. Kane said the executive
had not yet decided its policy on second
preferences and would not do so for some
time.
This gives Cahill a splendid opportunity
to emulate Dr. Evatt and offer to resign
on condition his party gets the D.L.P.
prefs.
• •
“Nunk”: A picture and caption in the
Sydney “Herald,” “Sydney’s last two
toast-rack trams went out of commission
yesterday,” sent me hopefully from the
breakfast-table to the tramstop ; but down
the hill through the cutting came a Rail-
way toast-rack diplodocus, followed by
a Circular Quay toast-rack iguanadon.
Venturing Quaywards by the iguanadon
we passed the Randwick tramway work-
shops stuffed with corridor-trams like a
Christmas-stocking ... I suppose the
department is so used to taking mugs out
to Randwick that it can’t bring itself to
put comfortable trams on the run —except
one or two at off-peak periods. The idea
is that you can crowd more mugs on one
double toast-rack at peak-periods than
on three or four corridors ; but I notice
they don’t try to put that one over the
tender-seated commuters on the Double
Bay and Rose Bay run.
• •
Nicklin is expected to follow-up his
Redistribution Bill early next year with
a bill to reintroduce preferential voting.
Labor abolished this system during the
. war when the Opposition parties were at
loggerheads. One result was to force
closer co-operation between the Country
party and the Libs. Last year when the
Labor party split in two the first-past-the-
post system helped to put the Nicklin
Government in. However, both the
Country party and the Liberals con-
demned it while in Opposition and it
would be a very shortsighted policy to
retain it.
So far there has been no mention of
switching to Federal rolls.
• •
The B.H.P. shipyard at Whyalla (S.A.)
launched on Saturday the biggest vessel
ever built in Australia. An ore-carrier
of 19,000 tons, the Iron Flinders is
intended for the Yampi-Kembla run.
“Forget about the cost, my dear! It all goes onto my political swindle-sheet!”


The new regime in the Sudan has
ordered the removal of the statues of
Gordon and Kitchener from the streets
of Khartoum. Britain is expected to
retaliate by smashing Cleopatra’s Needle.
• •
Two Liberal M.L.A.s —Ben Doig (Bur-
wood) and B. S. Deane (Hawkesbury)
—were ejected from the N.S.W. Assembly
during the debate on the Dead-or-alive
Defamation Bill. This raises an interest-
ing point. Although the general public
may hold conflicting views as to the effect
of such action by the Speaker, there can
be no doubt that the intention behind
the suspension or ejection of a member
is to penalise him for un-Parliamentary
conduct. What will happen if in 60
years’ time someone hurls at a future
Doig or Deane, “Garn, you’re as bad
as your old granddad who was chucked
out of the House for misbehavior”?
Will the 21st-century Doig (or Deane)
be able to claim damages for defamation?,
• •
At the last election J. F. Cairns won
the Yarra (Vic.) seat from S. M. Keon
(D.L.P.) by just under 800 votes after
the Liberal candidate had been eliminated.
This time Keon's vote was down by
a third and Cairns won comfortably.
The D.L.P. vote was also down in
Fawkner, with the result that W. M.
Bourke, who fought the final count with
Peter Howson (Lib.) in 1955, is at the
bottom of the poll. Howson’s majority
will be increased as a result.
• •
C. A. Morgan, sitting member for Reid
(N.S.W.), who lost the A.L.P. endorse-
ment and stood as Independent Labor,
polled well, but the machine was too
strong for him and the best he could
manage was third place behind the A.L.P.
and Liberal candidates. The D.L.P. vote
was very small in Reid ; Morgan probably
collected some votes which would other-
wise have gone to the new party.
• •
Canadian Prime Minister John Diefen-
baker is due in Canberra today (Wednes-
day). He will have talks with Dr. Evatt
and other Labor M.P.s as well as with
the Prime Minister and other Ministers.
His five-day visit will take in Melbourne
and Sydney and he will fly to New
Zealand on Monday.
• •
Following its defeat in the Victorian
Legislative Council on the Local Govern-
ment Bill, the Bolte Government had
another knockback last week when its
Hire-purchase Bill was given the same
treatment by an A.L.P .-Country party
alliance. The Opposition, by 17 votes
to 15, passed amendments fixing a
ceiling-limit on h.-p. interest-rates and
providing for the establishment of a
court of fair h.-p. on the lines of the
Fair Rents Court. After the vote
Premier Bolte said his Government would
not accept an arbitrary limit on interest-
rates.
The action of N.S.W. Railways
Commissioner McCusker and the railway-
unions of urging railway-employees in
Goulburn to boycott shops and busi-
nesses in that town which use road trans-
port instead of the railways looks as
if it may boomerang. On Thursday
A. G. Platt, secretary of the Transport
Workers’ Union, said some of his mem-
bers were suggesting a black ban on the
railways; they feared their livelihood
was being threatened because the rail-
ways were carting goods by motor-truck,
to and from railway-stations, at cut-
price rates. He said the railways paid
no taxes, but the carriers they were try-
ing to push out of business were taxed
to subsidise them.
Neither side in this boycott competi-
tion has any cause to feel proud of its
attitude. Standover tactics, whether
adopted by a trade-union or a Govern-
ment department, should not be tolerated.
• •
London Transport officials complain
that the number of bus-passengers has
dropped 21 per cent, since 1950 and that
over 500 buses will have to be taken
off the road through lack of patronage.
The explanation offered is that TV is
keeping people home at night. If the
same trend develops in Australian cities
the obvious answer seems to be to equip
every bus with TV.
• •
A London test-case of great interest
to Australian wine-producers was won
last week by the Costa Brava Wine Co.,
whose right to sell wine labelled
“Spanish Champagne” had been chal-
lenged by the Champagne Association
of Great Britain, who maintained that
the only wine entitled to be described
as champagne was that produced in the
Champagne district of France. The court
found the Costa Brava Co. not guilty
of selling falsely described wine and
awarded costs against the association.
• •
When Menzies visited Townsville
during the election campaign he made
the kind of remarks usually made in
those parts by visiting politicians—but
in this case there is no doubt he meant
what he said. The future of Australia,
he declared, lies more and more in North
Australia, and to develop its resources,
as well as the rest of Australia, it would
be essential to encourage investment of
overseas money, enterprise and skill.
That will be practicable now. But would
it have been if the Doc. had won?
• •
“Mugga Way”: Recommended reading
for all Labor M.P.s and trade-unionists:
an article in the October issue of the
“American Federationist,” the official
organ of the U.S. trade-union movement.
It discusses the situation in the
Communist - governed State of Kerala,
15,000 square-miles in south-west India
with a population of 13|-million, and
declares that against the steadily rising
opposition of all classes and non-
Communist parties to the oppressive
regime of the totalitarian, the Commu-
nist rulers “have unleashed all the
weapons in the traditional arsenal of re-
pression.”
There have been imprisonments,
public beatings and murder, but the
terror has boomeranged, and the opposi-
tion, instead of being crushed, has grown
in strength and intensity. Prime Minis-
ter Nehru, slow to act, has now de-
nounced the “cold-blooded murders,” and
demanded an investigation of the admin-
istrative methods which are said to
have included the hacking to pieces in
broad daylight of many unionists. Mem-
bers of Communist-controlled Australian
unions should be especially interested.
• •
“Cassandra”: D.L.P. helpers, mostly
ex-Right-wing Laborites, got a new view
of A.L.P. tactics on polling-day ; even
the women had to bear vicious abuse from
A.L.P. helpers, despite official attempts to
win D.L.P. preferences. For this reason
the friendliness of the Liberal helpers was
also a good job for their party: the
women who for the first time came into
contact with the bludgeons of Labor’s
back-lane boys are likely to think twice
before allowing themselves or anyone
connected with them to be led back to
the fold.
• •
In announcing Russia’s new Seven-
year Plan Khrushchev took the oppor-
tunity to denounce Bulganin, placing
him in the same category of “anti-party”
men as Malenkov, Molotov, Kaganovitch
and Shepilov. Russian people must
shudder to think what might have hap-
pened to their country if good Comrade
K. hadn’t found out in time what villains
his old friends were. And some of the
more imaginative must occasionally
wonder just where in the hierarchy
Comrade K. will be at the end of the
Seven-year Plan —or even at the end of
next year.
• •
Kites are already being flown for
higher pay for Federal M.P.s. That’s
one subject on which political enemies
never seem to fail to find common
ground. Their last rise was in 1956, and
it was a rather substantial one —about
£l2 a week.
• •
Motor-vehicle registrations reached a
new peak in October when 22,288 new
vehicles were registered. This was 1904
more than in September and 1570 more
than in October last year. The previous
record was 22,067, in May, 1955.
• •
“Balloteer”: Some of the younger
generation who take their political privi-
leges and responsibilities lightly could
learn from this story of the New Austra-
lian at the Sydney Town Hall booth.
“I haven't been able to vote for the
seven years I’ve been in Australia,” he
said, “and it was a long time before that
since I’d been able to vote in my home-
land. Today when I took up the pencil
in the ballot-booth to vote —well, my
fingers trembled.”


Personal ITEMS
O. H. Becher, R.A.N., moves up from
captain’s rank to become the first
Westralian-born rear-admiral —he hails
from Harvey, in the State’s sou’-west.
He gained the D.S.C. in the withdrawal
from Norway in 1940, and won a bar to
it in 1944, when commanding H.M.A.S.
Quickmatch in the attack against the
Japanese naval base at
Sabang (Sumatra). He
added D.S.O. in the
Korean campaign.
• •
Appointed vice-chair-
man of Tasman Empire
Airways, Ltd., Sir Hudson
Fysh, chairman of Qantas,
has been a director of
Teal since it started in
1940. The chairman of
the Teal board is Maori-
lander Sir Leonard lsitt.
Two new members
appointed by the N.Z.
Government are G. N.
Roberts (formerly general-
manager) and Dr. A.
Finlay, an Auckland
lawyer. Besides Sir Hud-
son Fysh, Australian mem-
bers are Sir Richard
Williams and W. C. Taylor.
• •
“M.T.P.” (Fiji): The
Rotuman communities of
Fiji have been arranging
mekes (traditional dances)
and magitis (feasts) to wel-
come Wilisoni Inia back
from Great Britain, where
he’s been studying the co-
operative movement. Inia
has been teaching for 33
years, mostly in Fiji. He
returned to Rotumah
six years ago, became interested in the
possibility of a co-operative store there,
and it was due to his efforts that the
first Rotuman co-operative store was
started. When offered a scholarship by
the British Council, he chose to study the
co-operative movement in England, and
now hopes to do something for his people
on their tiny island.
• •
After 44 years with the Vacuum Oil
Co., Percy C. Williams is, so to speak,
retiring and not retiring—he’s branching
out on his own. In the early days of
the Island Exploration Co. he held their
power -of - attorney in N.S.W., and so
organised the equipping of the first parties
sent to New Guinea to search for oil.
Latterly an executive at Vacuum Oil’s
Melbourne office, he’s now starting his
own public-relations business.
One of the banes of an actor’s life
is having to simulate eating a meal on
stage. In one play Edwin Styles—cur-
rently tickling Sydney’s ribs in “Not In
the Book” at the Royal—had to have
devilled-kidneys for breakfast. The prop.-
man cut up a few dates to represent the
meat, which was right enough until Edwin
ACTING
bit on a piece with an exposed tooth-
nerve and took-off vertically. Then he
decided to use his own wits, and came
up with a foolproof answer. Each day
he got his wife to make a chocolate-
blancmange, which he put in the fridge.
At night in the theatre, partly thawed
and cut up, it looked exactly like devilled-
kidneys.
Tall and debonair, Styles (sketched
herewith) is just as blase and casual off-
stage as on. He’s become almost an
institution in theatrical Australia 'since
1939, when the Firm first brought him
here to star in the musicomedy “Under
Your Hat.” After a run of the Tiv. cir-
cuit he settled-in at the old Sydney
Minerva in Coward’s “Design for Living”
and gave a performance which earned
praise from the visiting author. Mel-
bourne Comedy audiences put the seal
on his popularity by giving him record-
runs as leading-man in “Blithe Spirit” and
“The Man Who Came To Dinner.”
Styles made entertainment history by
appearing in a variety act on England’s
first TV-session ; since then he has done
swags of jobs in that medium. His films
include “The Dam Busters,” “The Weak,
and the Wicked” and a brace of Norman
Wisdom comedies.
• •
“Uramao”: Early in the New Year
the M.L. Parliament will lose an old
friend when Frederick H. Reid, senior
reporter of “Hansard,” retires after 35
years’ association with the House of
Representatives. “Scotty,” as he is known
to his friends, is a Londoner who arrived
in N.Z. in 1919, joined the Auckland
“Herald” and later changed over to the
Auckland “Star.” From his “safe seat”
he has looked down on 10 Prime Minis-
ters. He considers broadcasting of Par-
liamentary debates to be a retrograde
step; though members address Mr.
Speaker (he says), it is obvious they
mean “Good-evening, listeners.”
• •
Hugh McLernon, Deputy-Commis-
sioner of Police in Westralia, intends to
call it a day at the end of his pre-
retirement leave next year. That won't
mean idleness—he has taken-up a
property in the Westralian wheatbelt. Son
of a policeman and father of two more,
McLernon Started his working-life in the
State civil service, but gave away the
desk to tread the beat. As a member
of the gold-stealing-detection staff in Kal-
goorlie between 1949 and 1952 he did
good work directing the smashing of
organised rackets. His successor, 58-year-
old Chief Inspector H. R. Pilmer, has had
long association with the C. 1.8. —before
being promoted, he was chief of that
branch.' A rangy six-footer, he served
overseas with the old 51st Battalion in
War 1 and was once a flying-enthusiast,
with a civil-aviation pilot’s certificate.
• •
Deserts, the dawn and the destriers I ken —
And the glaive and the guest and the paper
and pen . . .
The Arabian poet might have written
these lines specifically for Edward Daniel
Alexander Bagot, president of the Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Mesopotamian
Units Association.
Born in Adelaide on Christmas Day,
1893, Alec Bagot joined the Marconi Co.
in 1909, and in 1913 transferred to the
Commonwealth Radio Service. On the
outbreak, this service was taken over by
the Navy, so it wasn't until 1916 that
he arrived in Mespot. He was with
the sappers —Ist Australian Wireless
Squadron —and finished a captain (twice
mentioned in dispatches).
At the end of War I, pioneering with
the Nairn brothers —first in association,
then in competition—he started a motor
cross-desert mail-service between Beirut,
Baghdad and Tehran. This was then the
longest motor-route in the world. He
also had business interests in Iraq and
was director of the “Times of Mesopo-
tamia.”
After nine-and-a-half years in and


around Mespot. he came back, and in 1926
pioneered the Adelaide-Darwin passenger
motor-tour —4500 miles there and back,
done in scheduled time. For this he had
four cars running and used what was
probably the first broadcast-receiving-set
in the outback.
Sturdy independence of this kind led
him to found the Citizens’ League of
South Australia and into politics as
M.L.C. there (Independent, naturally).
This was varied by War II service in
the V.D.C. He came to Sydney later and
now is with the Government Insurance
Office. In his spare time he’s busy writing
a biography of George Coppin, father
of the Australian theatre, and a man after
Bagot’s own heart.
• •
When The Bulletin suggested to
Roderick Shaw (who with Dick Edwards
has gradually been making a name for
Edwards and Shaw, Ltd., as the best
printers of fine books now regularly
operating in Sydney) that he might like to
drop-in and have his portrait drawn for
the “Personal” page, he said that, as he
was an artist, he might as well do him-
self. So here, his own victim, he is.
Shaw, who studied art at Sydney Tech,
under Fred Leist, first got interested in
typography when he was working as
a freelance in commercial art with James
Victor Hall, who runs a School of
Applied Advertising. As publishers,
Edwards and Shaw have largely
specialised in poetry—the Lyrebird
Writers, A. D. Hope’s The Wandering
Islands, Ethel Anderson’s Song of Hagar,
etc. —and one reason for that is that Dick
Edwards, himself the author of First
Eleven (in verse), used to be interested
in poetry-readings at King’s Cross before
the war. The firm’s first book, when they
operated as the Barn on the Hill Press
PRINTING
(in a barn above Woolloomooloo) was a
reprint of Barron Field’s First Fruits in
Australian Poetry, and their chief project
at the moment, taking a dive into practi-
cality, is a textbook on swimming.
• •
“Maitri” farewells a distinguished
pastor;
The passing of the Rev. C. Denis Ryan,
8.A., secretary of the Congregational Union of
Australia and New Zealand, deprives non-
conformity of a distinguished leader. Ordained
in Victoria in 1933, he was minister of several
churches, including Brougham Place Congrega-
tional Church in North Adelaide. From this
pastorate he came to Killara, one of Con-
gregationalism’s most flourishing churches in
N.S.W. Here his vision, enthusiasm and
organising ability inspired the erection of the
community-centre and Jhall as a memorial to
those who fell in World War 11. Just over
a year ago he resigned from the Killara charge
to accept the position he held at the end. A
member of the World Council of Churches
since its foundation, he worked steadily for
its ideals, and when Archbishop Mowll passed-
on he succeeded him as president of its Austra-
lian Council.
• •
From Pat Lawlor: The N.Z. Broadcast-
ing Service has been fortunate in its
directors. Professor (later Sir James)
Shelley took-over in 1936, and his erudi-
tion made the standard a high one. He
was succeeded by Will Yates, born show-
man and himself a talented comedian,
who kept a wary eye on culture, but has
made the show go with a bang. Yates
has now retired, handing over to his
assistant, John Schroder, for many years
assistant-editor of the Christchurch
“Press” and sanctified by the aura of
University Senate service. Schroder may
be another Professor Shelley, more
dominant perhaps, but just as kind at
heart.
• •
Taking-over as chairman of the council
and executive of the Westralian Division
of the Red Cross, Henry Greig, now 70,
can look back 43 years to his appointment
as general-secretary. He was business-
manager of West Australian Newspapers,
Ltd., from 1919 till he retired in 1953.
Former treasurer of the Y.M.C.A., he
also has been associated with the Silver
Chain District Nurses’ Association ever
since it was founded.
• •
Qualified both as psychiatrist and
barrister, Dr. John McGeorge (sketched
above) could easily pass himself off
as a successful businessman. Then, when
you have talked to him for a while, you
appreciate the deep, sympathetic know-
ledge of human behavior which has
earned him the imposing title: Consultant
Psychiatrist to the N.S.W. Department
of the Attorney-General and of Justice.
He was born in Glasgow, went to
school there for a time, then came to
Sydney, finished his education at Newing-
ton College and graduated from Sydney
University in medicine (1927). Entering
private practice as a psychiatrist, he
reached Macquarie Street before deciding
to read law in his spare time, and in
1952 he was called to the Bar. Outside
his profession or professions his in-
terests still are the study of human
nature more precisely, law and
literature. He’s writing a psychological
dissection of a number of historical
characters, but hasn’t had time yet to get
beyond page 17. The chapter-headings
PSYCHIATRY
sound intriguing: “Those Noble
Romans,” “Some Royal Ladies,” “The
Dynasty of Death,” among many others.
It should be worth reading one day.
• •
Retired after 51 years with the P.M.G.’s
Department, J. L. McCarthy, superinten-
dent of Perth G.P.O. telephone-service
branch for the past 12 years. Early in
his half-century of it he moved around
quite a bit —worked the first battery-
operated exchanges in Melbourne
suburbs; was traffic-officer in the Yarra
city and then at Adelaide; went to
Hobart as assistant-superintendent, and
after that transferred to a similar post
in Perth. A councillor of the W.A. Postal
Institute from 1939 to 1945, he became
the P.M.G.’s representative on the council
in 1946.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 71, widely known and
well-regarded business-identity Sir Sydney
Snow. Born at Ballarat (Vic.), he with
his family started the store in Sydney which
still bears their name; before its absorption
by Cox Brothers in 1953 Sir Sydney was
governing-director. An active board-member
in many other companies, he was one of the
founders of the All for Australia League, which
led to the founding of the. United Australia party
(forerunner of the Liberal party), and was a
prominent racehorse-owner. He was knighted
in 1936.
In Adelaide, Gwen Walsh, president of the
Anthropological Society of Australia. She will
be remembered for her work at the South
Australian Museum and the Anatomy Depart-
ment of the University of Adelaide; numerous
scientific papers were illustrated by her sketches,
and she also did the illustrations for C. P.
Mountford’s book Tree Portraits.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 89, Albert Organ,
known for 60 years in the N.Z. newspaper-
world. He had controlled a network of sporting
papers (“Raceform,” “Trotform,” etc.) with a
Dominion organisation. In his early days he
was in the Navy.
In Adelaide, at 67, W. H. (Harold) Oliver,
one-time champion league footballer for S.A.
and Port Adelaide.


ABORIGINALITIES
A SHEARER NAMED TRITTON
IN next week’s Christmas number The
Bulletin will begin publishing as a
serial the autobiography of a shearer
named Tritton. He is 72 years old
and tall and tough as an ironbark ; and
his writing might well be just as durable.
He is, really, Nancy Keesing’s “dis-
covery.” She met him when she was
searching for material for the Old Bush
Songs anthology, heard some of his yarns,
and liked them so much that she suggested
he write them down. When she read
the finished book she liked it so much
that she passed it on to The Bulletin ;
and The Bulletin liked it so much that
it starts next week. It is called, from a
line of Henry Lawson’s, Time Means
T ucker.
Like Alfred Joyce’s A Homestead
History, published by the Melbourne
University Press; like M. J. O'Reilly’s
Bowyangs and Boomerangs, published by
Oldham, Beddome and Meredith in Tas-
mania, and not nearly so well known as
it should be ; and, though the period is
much later, like The Letters of Rachel
Henning, Time Means Tucker is the
sort of book which could well become
a minor Australian classic ; for not only
does it set down an invaluable piece of
the national story in clear and precise
description, but it is also, without any
pretensions, remarkably well written.
Tritton just sets down in direct and
simple language what he has seen and
heard ; and what he saw and heard
happened to be an immortal part of the
Australian legend, shearing and swagging
outback.
He may, in part, have learned his style
from Henry Lawson, with whom he once
had a daylong “quiet session” in the
Miner’s Arms at Mudgee (N.S.W.);
and certainly his reminiscences make a
most valuable background to Lawson’s
short-stories, for all that life of shearing,
swagging, fossicking, droving, fencing,
rabbiting, bullock-driving and yarning
around the campfire which Lawson
described so brilliantly, Tritton really
lived. Every yarn he tells, from the two
old hatters fighting on the goldfields to
the rogue ram that knocked the other old
hatter down a hole and then tried to dig
him out again, would have made
wonderful material for Lawson ; and
every one remains first-class reading as
told by Tritton.
One of the greatest attractions of his
book is that, if the great days of the
blade-shears and the tucker-track have
gone for ever, the stations where he
worked all over New South Wales still
remain, usually with the same names,
often still owned by the same families ;
and so, too, with living bits of their
history in these pages, do the towns remain
where he camped under the bridges, was
or was not kicked out by the sergeant,
sang in the pubs or boxed with profes-
sionals (some famous) at the shows.
But the best thing about the book is
the spirit of youth and adventure in which
it is written.
“The year 1905,” Tritton begins it,
“was the turning-point of my life.” Young
and jobless in Sydney, he and his mate
Dutchy had decided to go outback. They
really might have been a pair of charac-
ters invented by Lawson ; and they were
ideal characters on which to string a
series of stories or a picaresque novel,
for they could both sing and fight as well
as (eventually) shear a sheep or sink a
H. P. (“DUKE") TRITTON
shaft, and singing around the streets and
in the pubs and boxing at the show-
grounds bring just the color that is needed
to enrich the life of the track.
Curiously, though the young swaggies
just drift from job to job, from fight to
fight, from station to station, the story
has form and movement like a novel.
They start out green from Sydney ; they
gather knowledge, experience and skill as
they go ; and you want to see them come
back to Sydney in the end with money
in their pockets. Which they do.
And there, very wisely, Tritton stops
his book. It is this one story of youth
setting out for adventure in the outback ;
simple, compact and fascinating; very
serious about such serious matters as the
precise way the blade-shears were used
and whether or not bullockies used to
swear, but on the whole, though never
straining to be funny, humorous and
good-humored.
Tritton —his initials are H.P., but
“Everybody calls me ‘Duke’ ” —now lives
retired in Sydney. When The Bulletin
first rang him up he seemed to be shooing
about 25 children out of the room so
that he , could hear himself talk ; the
present writer forgot to ask him whether
they were grandchildren or, as wouldn’t
be altogether improbable, his own.
Since the Time Means Tucker days he
has lived, but not written, half-a-dozen
more books: carrying and carting timber
in Sydney ; goldmining at Mudgee (he got
nothing for eight months, then in 21
days took out 70oz. —£494-worth —“the
most money I ever made in my life”);
farming his own selection at Cullenbone,
between Mudgee and Goulburn ; powder-
monkeying on the Sandy Hollow-Mary-
vale railway for two years ; carrying in
Mudgee ; and so to Sydney again. He
was born in Fivedock in 1886.
And if that seems a long time ago,
“Duke” doesn’t look it. He still gets the
urge to go fossicking ; and he looks as
fresh and vigorous as is Time Means
T ucker.
* * * ♦
“V.M.”: Watching, through binocu-
lars, wagtails on their initial flyabouts,
the fluffed feathers of the fledglings make
them appear much bigger than pa and
ma, and a side-glimpse of one taking
a morsel showed how incredibly wide it
can stretch its bill. Gazing through
glasses, it was the first time I noticed
their long eyebrows—and that the tail-
feathers grow out of the smalls of their
backs. '
* * * *
“Woonulla”: Why do “Windy” (B.
12/11/’5B) and so many other writers
speak of stock-horses “jogging”? There
used to be no greater crime against
horsemanship than to let a horse jog;
no rider worth his salt would lend a
mount to such a criminal. The worst
offenders were said to be native stock-
men and Chinese, but this may have been
due in part to the palming-off of
habitual “joggers” on “blackfellers” and
“Chinamen,” who weren’t in a position
to protest. On cattle-stations horses had
special jobs cutting - out, bronchoing,
night-camp, etc. —but the ability to walk
fast was an added advantage ; on a
sheep-station it was the first considera-
tion. Ambling and “running”—a some-
what similar pace were permissible,
though some riders disliked them ; but
an incurable “jogger” was likely to end-
up carrying a packsaddle.




“Mique”: Your literary critic, discus-
sing Elyne Mitchell s The Silver Stallion
(B. 5/11/58), asks: Aren t candlebarks
and ribbon-gums the same tree?" They
are not. Candlebarks are Eucalyptus
ruboida; ribbon - gum, Eucalyptus
viminalis (which is also known as manna-
gum, the food of that faddy feeder the
koala). Viminalis is widely distributed in
four States, being especially prolific
around Cooma and Twofold Bay
(southern N.S.W.).
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: In my neck of the
sou'-Westralian woods willy-wagtails cer-
tainly use spider-webs in their nests (JB.
5/11/’5B). They’re interwoven through-
out the entire fabric, and I’d say they
"It's for you."
go far towards making it one of the
neatest, cosiest and sturdiest structures
in birdland. Cobwebs are also used by
other small birds: the silvereye, white-
winged triller, some of the thornbills,
the brown-honeyeater, to mention a few ;
and while sometimes it's bound-in with
the general structure, in other cases the
nest is completely covered inside and out.
But cobweb is ignored by a lot of other
birds you'd think would find it just as
handy. For instance, the reed-warbler
and the brown-honeyeater build similar
nests in somewhat similar surroundings,
and the honeyeater uses cobwebs plenti-
fully. The warbler doesn’t touch ’em,
but it gets much the same effect by teasing
rushes.
Peter Townsend was
reported as saying that the country
around Moree (N.S.W.) is “typically
Australian," and I'm prompted to ask
what he m jf thi Xo m t 0
, • „ I . „■ . . ’
de 1031 ft A “ strahan , a , v,sta mLI ?
sandy l.ke the coastal plains north
. and south of Perth and rich, heavy
loam like the wheatbelt plateau ; it must
cc \ mbine the heat and haze of desert sand-
nd?.es Wlde ’ whlte L I b 1 eac L hes and
curling rollers ; it must hold the sweet,
indefinable scent of a mulga forest after
rain and the dignity and grandeur of a
karri or jarrah grove ; the peace of sheep
sheltering beneath a lone salmon-gum in
a stubble-field and the scream of a
thousand black-cockatoos rising from a
patch of doublegees at the base of a
rock outcrop in gimlet-country. Gazing
over it. I'd want to be able to see wattles
and blackboys and little, ground-hugging
plants, and ‘ swamps, and the rise and
fall of a North Australian tide. Until l
find a vista that embraces or conjures
up all of these and a host of other Aus-
tralian scenes that I haven't been able
to see in a lifetime spent knocking around
the continent, I'll question the right of
any. locality to be termed “typically Aus-
tralian”; or of any Englishman to fly
around Australia in a plane and then
tell us what our country looks like. —
“Bass.”
* * * *
“Bilwon”: On a Darling Downs (Q.)
grain-farm a bag-sewer stitched 762 three-
bushel bags of barley in one day, all
except 24 being done between sunrise
and sunset. This is claimed to be a
record for the State. Two years ago the
winner of a contest on the western
Downs sewed three bags in 3} minutes,
the top of each three-bushel bag being
closed with 15 stitches. Back in 1890,
in a competition in S.A., one man stitched
60 bags of wheat in an hour, and followed
that by sewing 70 bags of oats in the next
hour. In those days they were four-
bushel bags. But the art is a dying one.
Bulk-harvesting and bulk-handling are
writing “outski” to the expert sewer.
* * * *
“Macquarie”: Of all building - trade
expressions the one most misused by
weekend architects is surely “out of
plumb." One well - known American
author had his experienced builder
declare that a floor was out of plumb!
To be right, simply substitute “perpen-
dicular” for “plumb”—which is the only
sense in which the expression is used in
the trade.
THE LADY FRANKLIN MUSEUM
A Grecian temple set among the bush !
As though that Slave, the Genie of the
Lamp,
Who whisked Aladdin’s palace from his
sight,
Transporting it to Africa, had brought
The Parthenon from Athens, set it down
Among the gaunt, grey trees and ferntree
glades
Scarce more than half a mile from Hobart
Town.
Out in the bush, a temple to the arts ;
In the cold south and bottom of the world
Upon an island called Van Diemens
Land :
The Governor’s Lady, though the place
she found
Crude, savage, undeveloped, full of foes,
Built it and named it for the Greece she
loved,
And sweet Ancanthe was the name she
chose-
But faster than the arts the orchards grew
And flourished, till those staid and prac-
tical men
The growers, seeing Ancanthe year by
year
Neglected, empty, stored their apples
there.
Stunners and Jonathans and Democrats
Replaced the marble busts and miniatures.
The ladies’ silken gowns and feathered
hats.
Enormous in the sky at the valley’s end
The mountain overhangs it still, and still
The Brushy Creek goes rushing past,
though trees.
Ferns, apples, all have gone like melting
snows;
And like stone trees the fluted columns
stand
Memorial to a most courageous lady
Who dared bring culture to an uncultured
land.
s.a.
NANCY CATO


Exaggerated claims are made about
motorbikes, jeeps and scooters ex-
pediting stock-work. All they can accom-
plish is to get the men and dogs to the
job quicker ; they can’t put extra pace
in the work once the stock are in hand.
Sheep and cattle make their own pace.
It’s immaterial to them if a man is on
foot, on a horse, or in a car —they travel
so many miles, and that’s all they have
in them. If the driver puts them beyond
that, they knock-up and lie down on the
track. —“Splodger.”
* * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: At Moresby they’ve
been getting some good bags of barra-
mundi, which sells in mainland capitals
at up to 10-bob a pound. In the past in
this area barramundi trapped in nets
ripped their way out, but nylon nets with
a breaking-strain of 1601 b. are being used
with success although some of the
bigger fellows still get away. The average
weight of the fish caught has been 131 b.,
and there’s talk of competing commer-
cially with the Gulf of Carpentaria
fishers, who supply most of Australia’s
needs.
* * * *
“C.P.E.”: According to the “Red
Page” review of Kathleen Fitzpatrick’s
A ustralian Explorers Sturt’s encounter
with a mob of seemingly hostile blacks
happened while Sturt and co. were float-
ing down the Murrumbidgee. The
incident is also.related in J. K. Ewers’s
'Who Rides on the River? but it is set
on the junction of the Murray and
Darling. Which is right? Incidentally,
and since the “Red Page” asks, the name
of the native who saved the day is
recorded by Ewers as Nibbeluk.
* * . * *
“Rocky”: Have just read a book on
snakes which discounts the story of the
king brown-snake swallowing its young
for protection. “Swallow” may not be
the right word—a sword-swallower does
not “swallow” his sword —but the mother
brown-snake certainly does take her
young into her throat for protection or
transport. I watched one in the bottom
of a shallow gully ; she had four young
ones I could see, and there may have
been more inside. They were almost
black, a little thicker and about half as
long again as an ordinary lead-pencil.
One had its head just out of its mother’s
mouth, one had about 2in. out, one had
its tail just in, and the other was about
a foot ahead in the sand. When the
mother suddenly realised I was there, the
two nearest home pulled their heads in ;
the other two had no time before I killed
the lot. Why don’t the digestive acids
kill the young ones? Digestive acid does
not occur for a long way down in any
creature, especially a snake.
* * * *
“Deirdre”: That criticism of the
glossary to The Penguin Book of Aus-
tralian Verse (15/10/’5B) was interesting
if somewhat pedantic. For instance, any
horticulturist knows that common names
for plants can never be proved correct
or incorrect. They vary from State to
State, and even from district to district.
The name “paperbark” is not confined
to tea-trees (also only a common name
for the botanical species Leptospermum );
it is also applied, if anything more often,
to the botanical species Melaleuca, which
“ There's always a nice atmosphere in this bar”
takes many forms, one of which is a large
tree growing near watercourses. That
the wattle-bird is one of the least attrac-
tive of Australia’s honeyeaters is entirely
a matter of opinion. Its gutteral call is,
to me, irresistibly attractive and sounds
like cheerful, if rather noisy, conversa-
tion. Its somewhat -bumbling activities
among the blossoms evoke the same sort
of affection I feel for a large and
friendly dog.
* * * *
“Rory”: Since the lovely Wanderer
butterfly is supposed to be free from
attack by birds because of unpleasant
odor, kingfishers evidently have de-
praved tastes, as they frequently feed
their young with them. These butterflies
are also said only to frequent wild-
cotton plants. A neighbor had a Queens-
land wild-cotton, which brought the
Wanderers to her garden each flowering,
but when she pulled it out they still
came —to her celosia plants.
* * * *
Tnto this wood-seasoning Donnybrook
A has stumbled “H.C.8.” (B. l/10/’5B)
brandishing a shillelagh labelled
“moisture-equilibrium” and mouthing a
strange shibboleth about timber being
correctly seasoned when its moisture-
content equals atmospheric. He can
enwrap his bludgeon in its fallacious
definition and relegate both to his ivory-
tower, because they can effect no finality
in this ligneous brouhaha.
Wood is well seasoned when its
moisture-content is that required by its
utilisation. Specifically, a good flooring
of 11 per cent. m.-c. laid in winter, when
the atmosphere is 18 per cent., will give
Mum something to be proud of when the
kids roll back the rugs for a spot of
r.-’n’-r. But any mansion-owner with a
tallowwood or jarrah floor who can poke
a visiting-card between his boards may
well deduce he’s been short-sold with an
air-dried flooring.
If our forces of enlightenment are to
be rallied against those who are inclined
to season wood by throwing it into water,
exposing it to the light of a full moon or
standing it on end, the banner had best
be emblazoned “Reconditioning.” This
is something that just goes with kilns,
but with which Mother Nature has no
truck. Most hardwoods are collapse-
prone, because their make-up has round
cells with hollow walls. When the green
timber first starts to dry, off goes the cell-
sap until about 25 per cent, moisture is
left. Then sap starts to move from the
cell-walls, which, weakened by their sap-
support loss, allow the cells to distort to
oval or even flat, and that is “collapse.”
When wood is collapsed (and air-dried
eucalyptus-wood always is) and goes into
any utilisation, it continues in seasonal
movement, because those poor old
deformed cells struggle to reacquire their
original cylindricality, and never quite
make it. What the kilns do is to apply
wet steam, revitalise the cell-walls and fix
those cells in proper cylindricality for
good and always.
SEVENELMS.


DAVIS. ROTHWELL & CO.
(Incorporating Headlam, Hewson & Co.)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.)
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Bl< 1855 (3 lines)
193 Summer Street, Orange.
Orange 4054
Telegraphic and Cable Address, “RETEP," Sydney.
MULLENS & CO.
A. H. URQUHART, M. D. PASSMORE, K. W. A. BRIDGES
Members of the .Sydney Stock Exchange .
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
25 O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
Telephone
BW Sl7l (3 lines)
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Economic Lifesaving Drugs
After a slight touch of un-
employment, there has
been persistent urging from
some quarters for the use of a
great deal more deficit-finance
in the current fiscal year in
order to “stimulate the
economy” because of the fall
in wool prices and other sources
of export income.
The Federal Government
has already Budgeted for a
cash deficit to the extent of
£llO million, though this will
include a good deal of outlay
on public works.
The idea, however, of using
a large shot of deficit-finance
every time the economy
receives a setback is like using
penicillin or aureomycin to
deal with a slight hangover
after a party.
It is better to use lifesaving
drugs only in cases where other
treatment is likely to fail, other-
wise the antibiotics themselves
may fail in an emergency.
Long before deficit-finance
is used to correct economic
unbalance the particular indus-
tries affected should be investi-
gated in order to find out
what their special problem
really is. It is far better that
their weaknesses should be
found out and treated speci-
fically than that all industry
should be affected by whole-
sale doses of central-bank
credit.
In Australia a number of
industries are notoriously un-
economic. One of them is the
transport industry. It is no use
trying to revive the coastai-
shipping industry by the use
of more central-bank credit.
Its own particular problems,
which largely relate to labor
conditions, have to be dealt
with. And so it is with some
other industries. They are
problem-children, and even if
they need a dose of salts it
doesn’t follow that everyone
else in the class needs salts or
a shot of pep-drug.
Trying to pep-up consumer-
demand in Australia through
the overuse of “lifesaving”
economic drugs is not to be
countenanced.
Whatever our economic
problems, it is best that they
should be allowed to crystallise
a little before remedial action
is taken in the deficit-finance
line. It has taken us a long
"No, I don't think you should go out to see the cricket.
They're all out again!"
time for anything to be done
in the way of increasing
productivity in this country,
especially at the trade-union
and political level, and it won’t
hurt if the facts of eco-
nomic life become fairly
apparent before central-bank
credit is brought out. First-aid
should rather be in the nature
of occupational-therapy. The
patient should not be encour-
aged to go on his own incor-
rigible way simply by giving
him stimulants.
Our more efficient industries
would be penalised by any
inflation that followed the
extensive use of bank-credit.
Our export industries as a
whole would be the first to be
hit by a resumption of cost-
inflation. In the end there
would be no end of pressure
to devalue the pound in rela-
tion to sterling and the hard
currencies in order to offset
the inflation that had occurred
internally. In such a case the
logical-minded person would
wonder why we hadn’t
devalued at the outset and
skipped the internal inflation.
Devaluation, of course, is
debatable; but advocates of
deficit-finance as a cure-all
should think as far ahead as
possible ensuing devaluation
before they try to implement
their theories.
Hanimex Corporation, Ltd.
When it offered 600,000 ss.
’ * shares to the public early
in 1957 Hanimex Corporation,
Ltd., manufacturers and dis-
tributors of photographic
equipment, spoke of 1955-
56 earnings equal to 12.4 p.c.
on capital as it would stand
(£353,192) after the new issue,
and mentioned prospects of a
10 p.c. div. For 1956-57 it
published profits equal to over
24 p.c. on average capital and
paid a final p.c. div. In
March this year .it repeated the
12£ p.c. rate, and spoke of a
profit of £47,320, after provid-
ing £30,321 for taxation, for
the half-year to the preceding
December 31.
At this point it offered
567,560 ss. ords. at par (two
for five), and paid capital
moved up to £500,000.
It has now been announced,
very late in the day (in 1957 the
annual meeting was held on
September 26 ; this year, Dec.
4) that consolidated profit,
after allowing for outside share-
holders, for the whole year
to June 30 last was only
£26,933 (tax £17,118), indicat-
ing that the second half of
the year showed a loss ; and
because of the heavy cost of
establishing the Brookvale
factory, tooling-up, etc., for
new products, “running-in,”
and a contribution towards
initial expenses of Hanimex
(U.K.), no final div. is being
paid.
Before arriving at the year’s
profit, £82,036 of establishment
expenses was capitalised. Part
of the establishment account
represents the cost of revalu-
ing stock on the lower basis of
estimated future production
costs.
Sales were better than in the
previous year, but costs were
much higher. Current sales
are reported to be at their
highest level yet, and costs are
expected to be lower following
production at capacity with
improved efficiency. But
publicly-controlled manufac-
ture of Australian photographic
equipment has got off to a
bad start. How much official
tariff policy, in Australia and
the U.K., can be blamed is not
yet clear.
The ss. “new” shares have
fallen from a “high” of 7s. 3d.
this year to 4s. 6d. last week.
Much will depend on
whether establishment charges
are now finished and whether
production costs are being
brought back to really com-
petitive levels.
The co. is meeting much
more competition from local


“WALES” REPORT, Year ended 30.9.1958
Expansion of Bank Lending
Falling export incomes, more difficult conditions arising out of drought, and
diminished activity in housing and industries associated with it led to an
expansion of bank advances after two years of severe credit restriction.
The main movements in the whole of the operations of the Bank of New
South Wales were as follows:
Deposits
Total deposit items at September 30 amounted
to £568,000,000, an increase of £23,000,000,
the whole of which was in the Bank of New
South Wales Savings Bank Limited.
Advances
The changed economic climate and need to
support business activity gave rise to an
increase of £31,000,000 in advances, which
totalled £288,000,000. Those of the trading
bank increased by £23,000,000, and those of
the savings bank, mainly for housing, by
£8,000,000.
Profit
Net profit for the year was £2,050,000, equiva-
lent to 6.9% of shareholders’ funds.
Dividends
Total dividends for the year ended September
30 were £1,580,000, or 9% of capital.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
and
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 30TH SEPTEMBER 1958
ASSETS £
Coin, Bullion, Notes, and Cash at Bankers 31,186,211
Money at Short Call—London 2,375,000
Short-dated Treasury Bills—Australia 10,500,000
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank
of Australia 63,720,000
Statutory Deposit with Reserve Bank of New
Zealand 10,581,175
Government and other Securities 112,408,146
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit 59,899,842
Due by Other Banks 7,691,975
Loans and Advances to Customers and Local
Bills Discounted 287,660,967
Shares in other Companies 4,279,948
Accrued Interest and Sundry Balances 1,623,036
Bank Premises 11,500,000
£603,426,300
LIABILITIES £
Issued and Paid-up Capital 17,560,000
Reserve Funds 14,500,000
Undistributed Profits 1,432,522
Deposits, etc. 568,317,589
Notes in Circulation 80,892
Due to Other Banks 1,535,297
£603,426,300
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
Oldest and largest trading bank operating in Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, with
three branches in London and a wide network of oversea agents and correspondents
AiB 3 7 _
manufacture than was the case
when it first invited the public
to put up share-capital. Kodak
and Agfa are now assembling
“still” projectors in Australia,
for instance.
A Banker’s Analysis
/Commenting on the severe
business recession in the
"United States, accompanied by
a slowing-down in business
activity over most of the
Western world, H. D. Giddy,
chairman of the National Bank
of Australasia, remarks that
Australia, as a large overseas
trader, could not possibly
escape some repercussions ; and
the effects upon markets for
our wool and metals have been
severe.
But unemployment was
largely avoided, and although
industry as a whole may not
be working at full capacity,
in a number of important com-
modities production has been,
expanding, despite strong com-
petition, and internal price-
stability has been virtually
achieved.
“Last year,” Mr. Giddy con-
tinued, “I said that measures to
stimulate spending might be
necessary should the effects of
drought or of low export prices
threaten to reduce business and
employment much below full
activity. In fact, considerable
monetary e x p a n sio n has
already been undertaken as an
offset to the adverse influences.”
Mr. Giddy drew attention to
Australia’s 1.4 p.c. of unem-
ployment, as against about 2.2
p.c. in Britain, more than 4
p.c. in Canada, and 7 p.c. in
U.S.A. We are, he said, a
developing nation with a grow-
ing population, and a sensible
faith in our future is
thoroughly justified,
“Looking ahead, there seems
little doubt that within Aus-
tralia the remainder of this
financial year will see business
and production continue at
current levels, with the possi-
bility of some upward trend.
“For the present, we should
be able to maintain internal


Nothing can equal
A Government-Guaranteed
Investment for
Complete Security!
GOVERNMENT - GUARANTEED
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
5%% LOAN
For
5, 10 or 20 YEARS
> GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED— The Loan is
unconditionally guaranteed by the N.S.W. Govern-
ment and is also secured on the Board’s income,
estimated at £13,900,000 for 1958/59.
> TRUSTEE SECURITY— An Authorised Trustee
Investment in N.S.W., Queensland, Western Australia
and Tasmania.
> EASY TO INVEST —Applications are accepted at
any office of the Commonwealth Trading Bank, Aus-
tralia and New Zealand Bank Limited, Bank of New
South Wales, The Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney Limited, or through members of Stock
Exchanges or at the Sydney Water Board offices.
SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
MW87.58
activity without any really
embarrassing difficulties, but
problems could easily emerge
by 1959-60. On current indi-
cations, this could be a period
when some of the economic
and monetary policies that we
have developed may come
under real test, unless, of
course, there is ih the mean-
time a substantial improve-
ment in world commodity
prices, and especially in wool
prices.
“The plain fact is that Aus-
tralia must guard its interna-
tional solvency by retaining
adequate foreign - exchange
reserves. With the present out-
look for export prices, I do-
not believe that we could con-
template permitting our
reserves to continue to run
down at the rate of £lOO million
or more a year.”
Legal and General's Home
'T'he Australian headquarters
of the Legal and General
Assurance Society, of London,
are another striking addition to
the Sydney skyline and street-
front. Reaching to 180 ft. above
the Bligh Street footpath (the
old limit was 150 ft.), and
perched on one of the high-
spots picked-out by the earliest
white inhabitants of Sydney for
residential purposes, the top
of Temple House, as the Legal
and General’s ultra-modern,
air - conditioned, push - button
office-block is called, is one of
the more elevated eyries in
Sydney, with a clear view sea-
ward above all its surroundings.
The building, which was
opened on Friday by Governor-
General Sir William Slim, was
run-up in under 12 months by
Concrete Constructions, who
have been fairly busy lately,
and is on part of the former
site of the Union Club. It will
be adjacent to the architec-
turally dramatic new Com-
monwealth Block, along with
the graceful Qantas building,
the City Mutual and the new
Union Club building.
The Legal and General has
made quick progress in its
three years in Australia. Its
actuaries expected that a
million-pounds of assurances
might be written in the first
year in the Commonwealth,
with ten-millions a year after
10 years. In actual fact it
wrote temmillions in its second
year. For the current year the
figure is put at above £l5
million.
The Legal and General wrote
its first policy in London in
1836. In that year Sydney had
just begun to take on its present
layout.
Windowless Factory
T ife, as someone remarked,
is largely a procession of
paradoxes, .so perhaps it is
appropriate that the new
Lincoln Electric building at
Padstow, Sydney, which
commands an extensive view,
should have no windows.
This, the managing-director
of the Lincoln Electric Com-
pany (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., W. I.
Miskoe, explained at the official
opening, wasn’t as bold a step
as some people might think.
The building is virtually a
reproduction of one built by
the parent-company in America
some years ago, in which it
had been found that people
worked better, and were
happier, under the constant
illumination of artificial light-
ing than with natural lighting,
or a combination of natural
and artificial lighting ; less eye-
strain and irritation.
The building has several un-
usual features, including the
siting of the offices irfside the
main building, which is both
factory and warehouse.
Materials are stacked handy to
the assembly-lines, along which
they are transported by over-
head cranes, to the testing
points, and thence to the
shipping-bays, where the
finished products are loaded
on to trucks by an ingenious
push-button control.
The whole place looks like a
huge box of brick and alu-
minium, ringed by road, with
a few small brick buildings,
such as the liquid-fuel store,
scattered around the inner
perimeter, and another box, the
administrative one, inside the
large box. The office-block has
three stories ; the basement is
below the level of the factory
floor, the upper ground-floor is
level with it.
Lincoln employees do work
hard—and this, the manage-
ment claims, is due in large
part to its system of incentive
payments. Since the Australian
company started in 1938
employees’ share of the profits
has amounted to £429,000. The
company has never had a
strike, and last year 148 em-
ployes took home £52,000 —
an average of £351 —in extra
income.
The company claims to have
captured about half the Aus-
tralian market for heavy elec-
trical welding-equipment, and
its exports are steadily increas-
ing.


v .. 's? *
*
/voirf ...
;• jppaoAabM
asfc. /•
/V^/V
*%tz°; r
/ "&00V ,
tie's .
if


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Paul McDermott
Melbourne has a great re-
spect for its institutions —good,
bad and indifferent even
though it is slow to wake-up
to the possession of some of
the best of them. One such
is Paul McDermott and his
string-quartet. Over recent
years this enterprising cham-
ber-music ensemble has been
feeding local music-lovers on
a lavish diet of Beethoven and
Schubert quartets.
The group’s second concert
of the present season at the
Assembly Hall, well filled on
this occasion, consisted of the
Beethoven quartets in D., Op.
18, No. 3 and in B Flat, Op.
130 ; and the Schubert Quartet
in G., Op. 131 —all magnificent
meat for McDermott and his
players, William Glassford
(violin), Paul O’Brien (viola)
and Don Howley (’cello).
They played them all with
thoroughly practised unison
and an acute sense of dramatic
depth, rhythm and texture.
Beethoven’s youthful and
moving Op. .18 proved a living
witness to the composer’s
amazing, seemingly effortless
command of. the classic quartet
structure.
Opus 59, a much later work,
full of troubled warmth and
searching experiment, brought
perhaps the most earnest if not
the most successful playing
from the quartet. It reached
impressive heights in the
famous Cavatina, of which
Ludwig is reported to have
said, “Never did music of mine
make so deep an impression on
me ; even the remembrance of
the emotions it aroused always
costs me a tear.”
After the interval came
Schubert and expectations of
some pure and rapturous
themes extended and recurring
in a manner rarely employed
by the later Beethoven. But
no —no indulgence in linear
romantics and stuff of that
sort for Schubert on this occa-
sion. Instead, an uneasy mov-
ing and trembling and shunt-
ing of sounds piled one against
the other and sometimes over-
lapping but constantly dramatic
and arresting.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Blood Wedding”
This tragedy by the Spaniard
Frederico Garcia Lorca,
currently on display at Mel-
bourne's Union Theatre, is an
impressive attempt at stating
the age-old conflict between
the natural feelings of lovers
and the imposed requirements
“This ‘Symphonic Fantasiique always DOES
something to me."
of tradition in a dramatic
language which is as fresh and
as economical as Shaw’s.
Lorca draws his various
themes sharply with touches of
poetry and symbolism on the
one hand, and on the other
seems altogether unwilling to
delineate any one aspect of his
subject-matter with the tools
of argument and reason. At the
beginning of the third act,
when the play’s illicit lovers
have just fled into the woods
pursued by the jilted husband
and a considerable entourage,
Lorca has the perfect oppor-
tunity for debating the pros
and cons of sacrificing
commonly accepted and un-
wanted marital duties for the
immediate urgings of the Id.
Instead he has a few poetic
mumbles about the situation
and rests content with that.
The bride confesses that
Leonardo, by no means a
bridegroom, has been secretly
courting her, and two more
themes emerge. The bride’s
passion for Leonardo increases
as it diminishes for the bride-
groom, and in the stern face
of her tradition she feels guilty,
but she will not deny her feel-
ings and runs off with
Leonardo. The groom s
mother, who has lost most of
her family already through con-
flicts settled by the knife, pro-
fesses to detest this form of
solution, yet in the crisis she is
all for blood being spilled and
would be sorely affronted if her
son, the bridegroom, did not
take up the challenge in the
traditional Spanish manner.
In his third major theme-
Lorca shows that, despite the
lamentings, each of his
characters is satisfied with the
traditional tragic conclusion.
Not one of his characters sees
his way through to a new
solution that would violate
tradition. According to Lorca,
this is the universal problem
and he doesn’t see the slightest
hope of an alternative solution.
George Ogilvie kept his eye
focused on the whole in an
imaginative and intelligent
production. Lapses notwith-
standing, Monica Maugham, as
the wayward bride, turned-in
probably her best perform-
ance for the Union. As
Leonardo’s discarded wife,
Patricia Connolly acted like-
wise. A bit too prettily dressed-
up, Edward Webster did a
good job as the lover, and
so did Robin Ramsay, as the
groom, though he would be
well advised to discard the
effeminate swagger that has
crept into his movements.
M, G. S.
Sydney Carroll
“H.H.” (London): Sydney
Carroll, who died at
Bognor, aged 81, was the
theatre’s great all-rounder. He
tried his hand at everything
except scene-painting, and was
in turn actor, producer,
manager, author and critic. His
most fertile and impressive
period was between the wars,
when, besides introducing a
diversity of plays, he was
responsible for two innova-
tions that made theatrical
history.
One was the casting of a
musical-hall comedian (George
Robey) to play Falstaff, and
the other was the founding of
the open-air theatre in Regent’s
Park—a brave venture which,
though artistically successful,
cost him £lO,OOO in three years
He also discovered a young
actress, Vivien Leigh, causing
her to win overnight fame by
the sensational first-act curtain
of “The Mask of Virtue.”
A busy journalist, he was, at
various times, owner of a
group of trade-papers and
dramatic- and, later, film-critic
of the “Sunday Times,” and
editor of the “Daily Sketch.”
By way of an aside, he became
a civil servant during the first
war and left with an 0.8. E.
Sydney never lost his Aus-
tralian accent, although he left
Melbourne before he was 21,
and was always a homely, com-
fortable soul, forthright and
transparent ; he never sug-
gested the tycoon, although he
spent freely and made and lost
money hugely.
His father, John Whiteman,
was a librarian, poet and
Bulletin contributor. It is
partly due to Sydney that The
Bulletin is represented on the
the Critics’ Circle. In fact,
our last meeting was at a
Circle lunch, shortly before he
had the stroke , which cut him
off from Town. He was enter-
taining a Melbourne actress
and her husband.
♦J* <j» *i*
Music Group Concert
In a recital at Cammeray
(Sydney) Community Centre
Dr. Igor Taran, despite a
stuffy atmosphere and second-
rate piano, played all his pieces
well, one or two brilliantly.
Tenor Christopher Zakrzewski
gave a helping hand, or rather,
voice.
Accenting the Romantics,
Dr. Taran brought to such
numbers as Chopin’s Scherzo
No. 2 in B Flat Minor and
Liszt’s “Forest Murmurs” a
technique which, while not


faruellouS
14 carat Ljola
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
fitted with a genuine
14 carat gold nib.
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
fully guaranteed.
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
excellent value.
Ask your Retailer
he knows.
9/ZP
ISB °N ©Hi
The Conway Stewart
No. 15 at 29/6
No. 12 at 35/-
No. 76 at 60/-
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD., TQNDON
quite of the virtuoso class,
showed he was never seriously
worried by the technical
demands of the music. True,
occasionally his left - hand
seemed stunned by what the
other was doing—as in Liszt’s
Hungarian Rhapsody No. 12,
with its feathery right-hand
flourishes; and the second
movement of the Beethoven
Moonlight Sonata might have
been a little faster, and the
syncopation crisper; but Dr.
Taran’s great strength is in
his interpretation, coupled
with resolute —and pleasing—
lack of foolish sentimentality.
For those reasons it was
good to hear Mozart’s D
Major Rondo treated, rightly,
as a charming little fragment,
and not blown-up to synthetic
major proportions. In this
commentator’s opinion, the
finest playing of the evening
went into his encore number
—the Chopin F Sharp Major
Nocturne. Here, again, there
was restraint, and the rippling
turns danced from his fingers.
Mr. Zakrzewski sang various
things, some in Polish, some
in half-English. He sang more
from his heart than from his
head, which made his two
Polish folksongs memorable
and the two examples of
Schubert lieder not so memor-
able. Dr. Taran’s accompani-
ments, never descending to the
overassertive, were wonder-
fully delicate ; in the Brahms
Lullaby the piano seemed to
sing like pine-trees.
A. W.
Artbursts
Twelve-guinea Show
The paintings at the twelve-
guinea show at Farmer’s Blax-
land Galleries, Sydney, are
mostly abstracts, many of
them dull and conventional ;
though a few, such as Thomas
Gleghorn’s warm but inde-
terminate “Nullarbor Gibbers”
and one of Ralph Balson’s two
“Paintings” (which almost
resolves itself into parrots and
sheep) stand out.
Among the clearer works are
two seapieces by Arthur Murch
which look pleasantly cool in
this season ; a vigorous flower-
piece by Joy Ewart ; a rough
but forceful landscape by
Herbert Flugelman; several
gouaches of Oriental land-
scape by Charles Bush, pleas-
ing in their quiet colors ; and
William Salmon’s “Souvenir of
Black Bob’s Creek,” in which
this artist continues to bring a
fresh and firm eye to the Aus-
tralian scene.
Arts and Crafts
. Melbourne Arts and Crafts
Society has been celebrating its
first half-century with an exhi-
bition of its products at Mel-
bourne Town Hall, and even
the most indulgent of us would
have to say sadly that the
society’s 50th exhibition is
probably not so good as its
first.
Fifty years ago the crafts-
man’s hand was guided, how-
ever slightly, by the great tradi-
tion which produced the porce-
lains of France, the tapestries
of Flanders and the modelling
and carving of the great Eng-
lish cathedrals. That influence
has been completely sub-
merged under the tide of
modern progress. Sand-
papering machines and other
mechanical gadgets have made
the craftsman as extinct as the
dodo, and although the
is full of first-class tradesmen
there is scarcely one crafts-
man amongst a million. And,
although the exhibitors in this
show are amateurs mostly, they
are still determined by the pre-
vailing passion for smoothness,
polish and so-called “finish”
of the factory.
R. S. Ottow’s dropleaf table
and chairs are made of beauti-
ful wood and the workman-
ship is splendid, but variety
has been eliminated by the
high degree of polish. Some
wooden salad-bowls will look
quite nice after they have been
filled 100 times with oil and
onions, but for the present the
maker has destroyed all the
variety in the wood with his
excessive finish.
The love of “finish” appears
in most of the pottery except
Hughan’s. His stoneware is
based on old Japanese and
Korean models, and one jar,
simply decorated, is lovely. A
wrought-iron door to a
christening-font by F. R.
Arthur is traditional in shape
but factory-looking in execu-
tion.
There is the same lack of
variety in the fabrics of
Frances Burke, the jewellery of
Margaret Levy, and Peter
Morbach’s and Edward
Higgins’s self-conscious abo.
motifs. The hand-weavings
of Eileen Coxon are better.
M. G.S.
Films
“Hot Spell”
Director Daniel Mann, who
wrought fine screen-dramas in
“Come Back, Little Sheba” and
“The Rose Tattoo,” once again
draws liberally on his insight'
into the human mind and heart
in this domestic drama set in
New Orleans during torrid
weather when tempers are
frayed to snapping-point.
There is a coarse, middle-
aged father (Anthony Quinn)
who seeks diversion from the
humdrum existence with his
placid wife with a good-time
girl; an elder son (Earl Holli-
man) frustrated because of his
father's business tyranny; a
younger son (Clint Kim-
brough), a book-lover who
works in a library and gets no
sympathy from his sire in his
aspirations; and a passionate
daughter (Shirley MacLaine),
bitterly disillusioned when her
boy-friend makes it plain that
his interest in her is only as
a temporary mistress. The
story leads naturally and
feasibly to tragedy.
The domestic scenes are
skilfully etched-in, particu-
larly where an amiable party
switches because of a chance
innocent remark into an all-
out barney and, again, where
the father takes the youngest
son to a billiard-room, with
each one groping for words in
an endeavor to understand each
other.
Shirley Booth gives a near-
perfect performance ds the
mother —eager to do her best
by everyone, but somehow
only succeeding in pitting one
against the other ; a blend of
the pathetic and the ridiculous.
Quinn gives another of his
strong, overbearing portrayals,
and the rest of the cast do
creditable jobs.
At Sydney Prince Edward.
*> ❖ ❖
“A Girl in Black”
The work of a young
director, Michael Cacoyannis,
this Greek film (with English
sub-titles) is realistic and com-
passionate.
Its central characters are a
refined young girl deeply
sensitive to her widowed
mother’s moral lapse and the
circumstances of her sister’s
suicide. When she scorns the
attentions of the village lout


DO YOU KNOW
v
J
\
ST
m
n
ft*
W
mm
ssSS im
V
-A BUSY MAN?
Your brother, perhaps, or your son? A man
who. like yourself, is often too busy to keep abreast
of daily events; This man, you will agree, would
appreciate “The Bulletin”—a journal he could
read during the leisure hours of the weekend —a
medium that will keep him fully informed of all
the national affairs that matter.
SEND HIM A SUBSCRIPTION TO
AS A CHRISTMAS-GIFT FROM
THE FAMILY
Our Subscriptions Department will sign, on your
behalf, a greetings-card announcing your gift-subscrip-
tion, and will dispatch it to arrive before Christmas.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
ELSEWHERE
IN THIS ISSUE
3E
as:
m
vt*
%
1<
c
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO WILLIAM JOHN GERMON late of
Glebe.—TAKE NOTICE that PATRICIA
EMILY GERMON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4227 of 1958 on the
grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 10th day of
February 1959 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
CHARLES GRIFFITHS. Solicitor, 107-
109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
South Wales. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO WILLIAM DENIS ALDERSON late
of Alburv.— I TAKE NOTICE that
DULCIE ELLEN ALDERSON has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3983 of 1958
on the ground of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause
or excuse. If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Macquarie
Street Sydney by the lltli day of Febru-
ary 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE FRANCIS ROBSON late
of Abercrombie Street Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that CATHERINE WINIFRED
ROBSON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1598 of 1958 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 4tli day of Febi'uary
1959 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from ABRAHAM
GEORGE BRINDLEY, Solicitor, of 116
Liverpool Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO JOHN GEORGE BOWLES late of
Her Majesty’s Prison Townsville Queens-
land.—TAKE NOTICE that BARRI
ADAH LUCIE BOWLES has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1012 of 1958 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 17th February 1959 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from SLY & RUSSELL, Solicitors,
of 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
whose brutality had led to the
tragedy he leads the ignorant
villagers in a vendetta against
her and her family. Then she
and a young writer on holiday
fall in love, and the jealous one
and his waterfront cronies
cause a mass-drowning tragedy.
The scenes of hysteria among
the families waiting at the
quayside for the children who
will never return are harrowing
and realistic. The setting, on
a small Greek island, with the
strong sun beating on the
white houses which straggle
up a steep hillside, is as stark,
rugged and weatherbeaten as
the inhabitants it so well
portrays.
Elli Lambetti, with a sad
face of classic beauty, acts
with rare naturalism and, with
her share of the dialogue cut
to the bone, calls most effec-
tively upon the expressive use
of her dark eyes. Dimitri Horn,
as the visitor caught-up in
the feuding, makes a good
impression.
At Sydney Lyric.
<* *X* ❖
“The Good Companions”
Only two of the characters
come to life in the English
musical version of the Priestley
novel which traces the ups and
downs of a peripatetic revue
company held together by the
three come-by-chance new-
comers.
Celia Johnston is the stout-
hearted spinster who decides to
back the run-down show, and
Eric Portman is the dour York-
shireman who walks out on an
eternally-nagging wife and
finds the warm companionship
for which he yearns in the little
company of battling Thes-
pians. Both roles are limned
with rich understanding and
sympathy. The young leads —
John Fraser, as the songwriter,
and Janette Scott, as the sing-
ing star —are attractive and
capable enough, but fail to
strike the vital spark.
A couple of talented male
dancers go through routines
which are obvious reflections
of the American technique.
At Sydney Embassy.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Operation Mad Ball”
A brightly - paced comedy
which has to do with the
agonised efforts of a group of
rankers at a big U.S. Army
hospital in Belgium just after
the war to hold a ball and cir-
cumvent the regulation which
forbids G.l.s to fraternise with
officers, female, nursing per-
sonnel.
Fast-talking Jack Lemmon,
as the swaddies’ chief strate-
gist, duck-shover and side-
stepper of top-brass traps, gives
a crackerjack performance. He
is ably abetted by Ernie
Kovacs, as a razor - sharp
officer-nark with a wonderful
nose for sniffing out extra-
regulation peccadilloes and
who constantly threatens to
sprag the wheels of joy ; by
Mickey Rooney, as an
ebullient sergeant with a
phenomenal memory for
statistics, especially of the vital
sort; and by Arthur
O'Connell, as the mild-
mannered colonel whose chief
ambition is to get his visiting
brigadier-brother full and have
him stand on his head in a
ship’s crow’s-nest he has had
specially built in the mess.
At Sydney State.


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownhills.”
Telephone: BYV 1465 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
21 O’Connell Street - -- -- -- -- - Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax" Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—Bff 8088
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
T ead and zinc prices show signs of
continuing their upward trend, but
the chances of anything more than a
gradual and limited recovery haven’t
improved overmuch in the last couple
of months. most encouraging
pointer is, perhaps, the quickening indus-
trial tempo in the U.S.A.
Against this, restrictions on the import
of lead and zinc into the U.S. have added
to the surplus stocks already available
for sale on other markets, while recent
international conferences have failed,
apparently, to produce a generally
acceptable plan for combating effects of
the current oversupply of the two base
metals.
At the moment, therefore, it seems
that competition among producers, or
groups of producers, outside the U.S. will
determine the scale on which production
is reduced, with the outlook for indivi-
dual producers depending, largely, on
their cost-structure and financial strength.
On these counts the Barrier silver-lead-
zinc miner, North Broken Hill, Ltd.,
shows-up well and, reasonably confident
that things can only get better, buyers
of the co.’s f.-p. ss. units paid 945. for
the scrip last week, compared with this
year’s “low” of 84s. last September.
Based on last term’s 90 p.c. div.-rate, the
return at this price would be £4 15s
9d. p.c.
World output of lead and zinc has
been ahead of industrial consumption
since 1949, but, until early 1957, stock-
piling by the U.S. and U.K. Governments
took care of surplus production and, in
fact, stimulated production. The extent
to which the market has since been
depressed by the cessation of stockpiling,
the release from stockpiles of quantities
of metal and a slip in world consump-
tion, is only too obvious from the
accounts of North Broken Hill for the
year to June 30 last, during which the
co.’s mine surplus slumped from
£2,733,487 to the nominal figure of
£5806. Income from North’s big invest-
ment portfolio lifted net earnings to
£512,827 or £1,607,069 below the previous
term’s showing.
The average prices received for lead,
zinc and silver sold by North last term,
together with comparable figures for the
previous term, are shown in the following
table:
Year to Lead.* Zinc.f Silver.*
June 30, (Ton.) (Ton.) (Oz.)
1957 .. £l3l 9 2 £llB 9 3 Bs. 1.5 d.
1958 . . 91 13 1 87 13 6 7s. 11. Id.
* F.a.s. Port Pirie, South Aust.
t Jb'.o.b. Kisdon, Tasmania.
The chief mineral economist for the
Bureau of Mineral Resources (J. A.
Dunn) recently estimated “a normal
general price-range” for lead at
£stg.Bs-105 and for zinc at £stg.7s-95,
current quotes on the London Metal
Exchange placing zinc just within this
range and lead something over £stg.B
below the estimated “floor” price.
Early this year North, in company
with neighboring base-metal producers,
cut working-time by 10 p.c. and the
quantity of ore mined by the co. last
term fell by 11,082 tons to 382,272 tons,
most of which came from the North
section. Average values improved
towards the close of the period, and the
mill, converted during the year from a
gravity-flotation to an all-flotation cir-
cuit, treated 380,096 tons (down 14,946
tons) of ore averaging 13.7 p.c. lead
(12.9 p.c. in 1957), 11.4 p.c. zinc
(11.0 p.c.) and 7oz. silver (6.90 z.) for the
following concentrates:
i Assay
Lead, Silver, Zinc. .
Lead— Tons. p.c. Oz. p.c.
1957 .. .. 69,311 71.0 36.2 5.1
1958 .. .. 71,289 70.6 34.6 5.6
Zinc—
-1957 .. .. 74,326 0.9 1.5 51.2
1958 .. .. 74,041 0.9 1.3 50.9
Metal recoveries in concentrates were
lead 96.8 p.c., silver 92.7 p.c. and zinc
86.7 p.c., compared with 97 p.c., 91.6 p.c.
and 87.5 p.c., respectively, in the preced-
ing term.
Sales of lead and silver fell short of
production by approximately 2800 tons
lead and 360,0000 z. silver, but the main
course of the spectacular fall in mine
“revenue” (down £3,279,737 at £3,978,191)
was, of course, the slump in metal prices.
Reductions in the work-force (the num-
ber of underground employees fell by
91 over the year) and in the lead-bonus,
along with various working-economies,
took a little of the sting out of the price-
movement, cutting mine-expenditure
(down £552,056) by approximately 20s.
per ton of ore treated to £lO 9s. per
ton:
Revenue— " 1956. 1957. 1958.
Mine products. . £7,246,125 £7,257,928 £3,978,191
Investments .. 580,821 642,037 624,225
£7,826,946 £7,899,965 £4,602,416
Expenditure—
Mine .. .. 4,330,483 4,524,441 3,972,385
P. and 1. items .. 1,471,166 1,255,628 117,204
£5,801,649 £5,780,069 £4,089,589
Net profit .. £2,025,297 £2,119,896 £512,827
The poor results exempted the co. from
N.S.W. royalty-payments (£352,500 in
the preceding term), and, including much
lower provisions for tax (£15,000, down
£696,000) and depreciation (£25,000,
down £75,000), total p.-and-l. expenses
dropped by £1,138,424 to £117,204.
Investment income was a little weaker,
chiefly as a result of the sale of Govern-
ment bonds, etc., and at £624,225 (down
£17,812) was equal to a fraction under
4s. 6d. for each of the co.’s 2,800,000 ss.
stock units. The div.-rate, slashed from
200 p.c. to 90 p.c., called for £630,000,
or £117,173 more than the £512,827 net
profit, which, however, excludes a (net)
£101,872 restored to the appropriation
account as an unexpended appropriation
for plant and mining-development.
The Blackwood and Thompson shafts,
in the British Junction section, were
closed during the year on depletion of
ore reserves in those areas, and slow
progress with the No. 3 shaft limited
opportunities for development, ore
reserves at June 30 being estimated at
4,588,000 tons (down 258,000 tons) —■
sufficient to keep the mill busy for another
12 years at last term’s rate of throughput.
On the diamond-drilling side, a note-
worthy widening of the orebody below
the 3370 ft. level was indicated.
Following reductions in working-time
at the Barrier mines, Broken Hill Asso-
ciated Smelters Pty. (which takes all of
North’s lead concentrates) reduced out-
put at the Port Pirie smelter by 15 p.c.,
a corresponding adjustment being made
in the quantities of concentrates pur-
chased from the mines. To avoid the
increase in costs which would accom-
pany any further drop in the output of
concentrates, North plans to maintain
production at a rate in excess of its share
of smelter-capacity and, if present condi-
tions continue, expects operating econo-
mies and higher ore-grades to increase
the surplus in this term’s working-
account. At the same time, the antici-
pated accumulation of concentrates could
well tie-up a large portion of the funds
needed to support a higher div.-rate.
To cope with the big cut in income
last term the co. withdrew £400,000 of
deposits and sold £1,551,696 of Govern-
ment bonds, far smaller provisions for
tax and royalties leaving the surplus of
current assets and investments over
liabilities, etc., £252,937 lighter at
£4,440,150:
1956. 1957. 1958.
Shares other cos. £3,468,140 £3,709.099 £3,930.636
Stores . . . . 433,622 360,822 294,082
Concentrates on .
hand, etc. .. 1,426,092 1,185,816 1,110,319
Debtors .. .. 379,592 247,052 497,736
Cash, etc 1,528,404 2,302,143 285,495
Liquid assets .. £7,235,850 £7,805,532 £6,118,268
Less liabilities* .. 3,081,991 3,112,445 1,678,118
Liquid surplus. . £4,153,859 £4,693,087 £4,440,150
* Includes provision for taxation, final divs., etc.
Over five times the size of paid capital,
North’s investments have a book-value
(cost) of £3,930,636 and include large
shareholdings in Associated Pulp and
Paper, Broken Hill Associated Smelters,


G. H. PARTRIDGE & CO.
L. D. PARTRIDGE, A. G. HANSON
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
113 PiU Street, Sydney Telephone: BE 5031-2
Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. ALLEN
P. R. LEVY
M. K. Li. DOWNING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Slock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
Commonwealth Aircraft Corp., Court-
aulds (Australia), Electrolytic Refining
and Smelting Co., E.Z. Industries,
1.C.1.A.N.Z. and Metal Manufacturers.
Clyde Industries, Ltd.
■Expansion by absorption has been a
feature of Clyde Industries' success-
ful and continuing policy of diversifica-
tion, the latest takeover-bid —last week’s
offer for the ord. capital of Fowler Con-
structions, Ltd. coming within 12
months of the absorptions of Proofwood,
Ltd., Westeel Industries, Ltd., and the
relatively small Automatic Electric Tele-
phones, Ltd. Major additions to the
Clyde group within the last five years
include both Apac Industries, Ltd., and
Martin and King Industries, Ltd.
Fowler ord.-shareholders have been
offered 50 Clyde ss. ords., plus 2s. a share,
for every 50 10s. ords. in Fowler Con-
structions, 14s. per share, in cash, being
offered for holdings of less than 50 shares.
Acceptance of the offer, as recom-
mended by the Fowler board, would
involve the issue of approximately
1,268,750 of Clyde’s ss. ords. and the
payment of around £136,875. However,
if a capital-return, previously proposed
by Fowler Constructions, is carried out,
Clyde will collect 3s. 4d. on each ord.
bought. Excluding the cash transactions,
the profit attributable to ord.-shareholders
in Fowler Constructions last term was
equal to approximately 23.7 p.c. on the
par value of scrip offered by Clyde.
The capital-return is a sequel to the
sale by Fowler Construction of various
subsidiary interests, and the Victorian-
registered co. is now mainly concerned
with the merchandising of roadmaking-
and earthmoving-equipment (through the
Victorian I.S.A.S. organisation), the pro-
duction of bitumen- and asphalt-mixes
and the manufacture of hydraulic pumps
and valves.
Completion of the Fowler deal would
give Clyde a paid capital of approxi-
mately £3,165,600, first and second 5 p.c.
prefs. accounting for £600,000 of this
total. Last issue to shareholders (one-
for-two, at par) was in 1952, bonus-scrip
going out in 1954 (one-for-five) and 1955
(one-for-eight).
Although some post-war ventures have
been more successful than others, Clyde
has developed in a most attractive fashion
over the last decade, a considerable
widening of activities giving the 61-year-
old organisation a much sounder basis
than that enjoyed in earlier years, when
heavy-engineering, including the manufac-
ture of locomotives, rolling-stock, etc.,
was the mainstay of the business.
The major operating subsidiaries are:
Clyde Engineering Co. Pty. (heavy engi-
neers, bridge-builders, manufacturer of loco-
motives, rolling-stock, omnibuses, boilers,
mining-machinery, etc.).
Clyde Batteries Pty. (lead-acid batteries).
Paul and Gray Pty. (ship-chandlers and
hardware-merchants).
A. C. Willard and Co. Pty. (manufacturer
of plant for food-processing, chemical and
textile industries and of stainless-steel products).
John Carruthers and Co. Pty. (consulting-
engineer, machinery-agent and -manufacturer).
Martin and King Industries, Ltd. (body-
builder, motor-vehicle assembler, manufacturer
of railway rolling-stock).
Apac Industries, Ltd. (automotive jacks,
greasing equipment, fork-lift trucks, etc.).
Westeel Industries, Ltd. (steel-machinery-
and tool-merchant, manufacturer of boilers,
valves, engineering-supplies, etc.).
A promising development last term was
the formation of Volkswagen (Aus-
tralasia) Pty., in which Clyde will hold a
244 p.c. interest and the German Volks-
wagenwerk G.m.b.H. a 51 p.c. interest.
The new co. will assemble and wholesale
the fast-selling Volkswagen range of
vehicles (at present assembled by Martin
and King) and add progressively to their
locally manufactured content. A capital-
expenditure of over £9 million is
envisaged. Meanwhile, Martin and King
has secured a contract for the assembly
and partial manufacture of Renault
“Dauphine” cars, and this work, along
with the construction of rolling-stock,
etc., will be carried out at new premises
to be erected on a 140-acre site at
Somerton, near Melbourne.
The gradual replacement, on Australian
and overseas railways, of steam locomo-
tives by diesel-engined machines has
enticed a number of Australian cos. into
the loco.-building business, and the result-
ing excess of production-capacity has led
to intense competition, while the state of
railway finances generally has restricted
the amount of work available. In these
circumstances, Clyde has had difficulty in
securing a steady and adequate volume of
orders over the last few years, and the co.
was unable to keep the Granville (Syd-
ney) plant fully occupied during the year
to June 30 last. However, good results
from Apac and Martin and King and
advances in other directions gave the
group as a whole its highest profit on
record, net earnings, including a portion
of the Westeel profit, rising by £84,634
to £547,273:
CD de Industries and Subsidiaries.
r Dividends ,
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ " £
1953 . . 220,111 5 10 160,000 898.514
Added intangibles, £26,868 .. 871,646
Reserves capitalised, £260,000 .. 611,646
•Unexplained additions £1062 .. 612,708
1954 .. 337,417 5 10 178,850 771,275
Reserves capitalised, £220,213 .. 651,062
Share premiums, £31,766 .. .. 582.828
Add reserve adjustments, £58,555.. 641,383
Add reduction intangibles, £3498.. 644,881
1955 . . 379,668 5 10 217,151 807,368
Less added intangibles, £ 4932 .. 802,436
1956 .. 403,543 5 10 228,192 977,787
Reduction intangibles, £8620 . . 986,407
Surplus on revaluation of freeholds,
£18,600 .. .. . . .. 1,005,007
1957 . . 462,639 5 12?. 277,740 1,189,906
Reduction intangibles, £l7l .. 1,190,077
Revaluation freeholds, £596,902 . . 1,786,979
Increase book-value over cost, shares
in subsidiaries, £127,316 ..1.914,295
1958 . . 547,273 5 124 296,043 2,165,525
* After deducting intangibles, £32,297 at 30/6/’5B.
Although the tax-provision, up £69,741 at
£449,230, suggests that actual earnings
were a lot better than those claimed
allowance has to be made for the undis-
closed losses of three unnamed subsidiary
cos.
After six years at 10 p.c., the ord. div.-
rate was lifted to 12| p.c. in 1956-57, and
the higher rate is well protected, last
term’s showing, less pref. divs., equalling
20.2 p.c. on ord. capital, as it would
stand on completion of the Fowler take-
over, or 24.3 p.c. on average ord. capital,
compared with 21.8, 18.8, 18.7 and 20.7
p.c. back to 1954.
The group balance-sheet reveals size-
able reserves (to which £596,902 was
added last term on revaluation of certain
freeholds) and a comfortable liquid
position:
Consolidate) Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 11)36. 1.937. 1938.
Pref £600.000 £600.000 £600,000
Ord 1.981,918 1,981,918 2,216,339
Reserves . . . . 1,018,873 1,222,374 2,197.822
Outside interests.. 107,200 107.200 238,299
Notes .. .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,112,500
Overdraft . . . . 136,493 130,141 276,473
Creditors, etc. .. 1.823.589 1,419,707 2,587,011
Final div. .. 99,096 148,644 166,757
£6,769,171 £6,609,984 £9,395,201
Freeholds, etc. ~ 1,639,567 1,577.168 2.661,807
Plant .. .. 1,210,925 1,228,307 1,369,914
Stocks . . . . 2,471.139 2.370,887 2.371,776
Debtors .. .. 1,347,409 1,252,990 1.225,436
Investments .. 33,112 32,093 ) , 071
Cash, etc... .. 19,911 116,071 J ’
Intangibles .. 41,088 32,468 32,297
£6.769,171 £6,609,984 £9,395,201
There was little movement in trading-
assets (stocks and debtors) despite the
inclusion of Westeel’s figures, which, with
the writing-up of freeholds, appears to
have been responsible for a large part of
the £1,226,246 increase in fixed assets.
Working-capital improved by £227,393 to
£2,300,942, but the annual report offers no
explanation for the big (£1,585,807) leap
in “cash, deposits and marketable securi-
ties’’ and a similar increase in outside
liabilities and provisions.
A recently secured order from the
N.S.W. Department of Transport for
248 bus-bodies will ease the immediate
problems of Clyde Engineering, and,
while strong competition may limit any
improvement in the earning-rate on
capital in the current term, development
of the Volkswagen project and establish-
ment of the new Martin and King plant
should show-up in earnings within the
next couple of years.
At balance-date each of the f.-p. ss.
units had a net tangible backing of
9s. lid., the scrip at 11s. Bd. returning
£5 7s. 2d. p.c. from a 124 p.c. div.
National Radiators, Ltd.
After a run of consistently good
profits National Radiators excelled
itself last term, celebrating its tenth year
as a public co., with a spectacular 179
p.c. leap in net earnings.
On an ord. capital increased by
£127,010 to £450,191 during the year,


ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
A WIDE RANGE
OF LIFE ASSURANCE
8c PERSONAL ACCIDENT
8c SICKNESS POLICIES
to meet the needs of all sections
of Australia’s expanding population
AUSTRALIAN
= METROPOLITAN LIFE =
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Qld., 1895)
HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS: E. W. Robinson, Esq.
(Chairman), Col. R. S. Goward, C.8.E.,
P. H. Phillips, Esq., T. Keith Smith, Esq.,
C. W. Rothe, Esq., S. J. Gandon, Esq.
Gen. Manager: W. J. Cooksey, B.Sc., F.F.A.
36in.
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
k Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
the ord. shareholders’ propor-
tion of the record profit repre-
sented a return of 43.8 p.c.,
compared with a healthy 23.8
p.c. average for the five pre-
ceding years.
The board expects to
maintain, in the current term,
the higher volume of sales
achieved last year, and,
although the div.- rate was
lifted from 13| p.c. to 20 p.c.,
the sharemarket couples the
earning-rate with the more-
than-satisfactory level of
reserves and expresses its con-
clusions by pricing the co.’s
f.-p. ss. ords. at 225. At this
price the div.-yield from a con-
tinued 20 p.c. payout would be
£4 10s. 1 Id. p.c. and the earn-
ings-yield £9 19s. sd. p.c., leav-
ing a rather limited scope for
the more optimistic of late-
comers.
National Radiators’ contract
for the supply of radiators used
in Holden vehicles has been a
major factor in the co.’s growth
and prosperity, and, with new
Holdens coming off the line
at a rate in excess of 110,000
units a year, business in that
direction is no doubt booming.
Among well-known makes of
vehicle incorporating Natra
radiators as initial equipment
are Chrysler, Hillman, Inter-
national, Land Rover, Morris
Minor, Simca, Standard 10 and
Vauxhall. Other automotive
lines include car-heaters and
fuel-tanks.
Seeking fresh fields for profit-
making, and a greater variety
of interests, the co. commenced
the manufacture of a corrosion-
inhibiting packing-paper in
1955 and of Aerosol valves
(for disposable pressure-packs)
in 1956, branching-out into a
completely new sphere last
term with the purchase of a
group of Queensland cos.
engaged in the manufacture
of builders’-hardware. Paid
capital of the four cos. con-
cerned, Perry Bros. Pty.,
Whitco Hardware Manufactur-
ing Co. Pty., Whitco Hardware
(N.S.W.) Pty. and Architectural
Engineering Co. Pty., cost
National Radiators £114,318 in
f.-p. ss. ords.
This spread of interests has
been accompanied by the
vigorous expansion of the co.’s
original activities ; involving a
large outlay on the Sydney
plant (where production is now
almost on a par with that of
the Melbourne works), the
purchase of an associated busi-
ness in New Zealand and exten-
sion to servicing and repair
interests in West Australia.
Bonus-scrip was handed-out
(one-for-four) in 1956, the
previous issue to shareholders
(53-for-100, in 1951) carrying
a 50 p.c. premium.
To meet the needs of a
growing band of customers,
production of radiators was
lifted by 26 p.c. last term, and,
with the aid of businesses
acquired during the year and
in the preceding term, turnover
was hoisted from £1,249,745 to
a record £2,053,711. And
there was more profit in each
£ of income, too, despite
reductions of up to 10 p.c. in
selling-prices, both wages and
material-costs claiming a
smaller proportion of the
higher income. Up £128,305 at
£200,054, net earnings were
written after providing £129,261
(up £69,761) for taxation and
£36,396 (up £10,527) for
depreciation and represented
9.7 p.c. of turnover as against
5.7 p.c. in 1956-57:
Parent and Subsidiary.
r. Dividends N Re-
Jne. Profit. Pref. , Old. N serves.
30, £ - £ £ £
’52.. 53,520 2500 = 27,901 130,014
Profit sale assets. £l9 .. 130,033
’53.. 52,778 2500 29.902 150,409
Profit sale assets, £356 .. 150,765
’54.. 60,997 '2500 18J = 41,115 168,147
Tax overprovided, £1652 .. 169,799
Profit sale assets, £213 . . 170,012
’55.. 66,131 2500 13j = 29,902 203,741
Revalua’n freeholds, £23,197 226,938
Reserves capitalised, £56.066 170,872
Profit sale fixed-assets, etc.,
£lOl4 .. .. .. 171,886
’56.. 68,365 2500 = 34,574 203,177
Tax underprovided, £46 .. 203,131
Profit sale assets, £203 . . 203,334
’57.. 71,749 2500 231,634
Tax ovei-provided, £1165 .. 232,799
Added revaluation reserve,
£19,790 252;589
Surplus on consolidation,
£33,518 286,107
Profit sale assets, £1602 .. 287,709
’58..200,054 2500 20 = 83,688 401,575
Over 56 p.c. of the profit went
to reserves, along with a tax-
overprovision (£1165) and
capital-surpluses, etc. (£54,910),
taking total reserves to
£401,575, or 4s. 6d. for each
ss. ord.
Operating largely within its
own resources, National Radi-
ators has financed much of its
recent expansion by share-
issues and the reinvestment of
earnings, outside liabilities and
provisions at June 30 last
amounting to only 7s. 6d. for
each £ of shareholders’
funds: —
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1957. 1958.
Pref £50,000 £50,000
Old 323,181 450,191
Reserves. .. 231,634 401,575
Mortgage .. 17,000
Overdraft .. 3,065
Creditors .. 58,098 100,676
Staff fund .. 14,038 18,752
Tax provision .. 69,841 133,124
Final div. ~ 28,182 68,779
£778,039 £1,240,097
Freeholds, lease-
holds & plant 285,757 442,564
Stocks . . .. 343,018 422,211
Debtors .. .. 141,746 232,222
Shares .. .. 4,310 4,310
Cash, etc. .. 3,208 138,790
£778,039 £1,240,097
Balance-sheet movements
sprang, mainly, from purchase
of the Perry group of cos. and
the greater volume of trade
and earnings ; but the financial
structure certainly hasn’t been
strained by these developments,
working-capital rising by
£157,144 to £471,452 over the
year. Reductions in the price
of copper, a major raw-
material, helped to limit the
growth in stock-values.
Cemac Associated, Ltd.
Although barely two years
of public-company history
antedate the latest balance-
sheet of the Cemac group,
which, in fact, sprang from
very humble parentage in the
early post-war years, its stock
seems to have captured the
imagination of the Sydney
sharemarket in no uncertain
manner.
£x-div., the ss. units which
compose Cemac’s paid capital
are now each commanding


CURRENT FINANCIAL
YEAR APPEARS SAFE
—BANK CHAIRMAN
There seems little doubt that within Australia the
remainder of this financial year will see business and produc-
tion continue at current levels, with the possibility of some
upward trend becoming evident, said the Chairman of
Directors of the National Bank of Australasia- Limited, Mr.
H. D. Giddy, when addressing shareholders at the annual
meeting, held in Melbourne last Wednesday. Official
estimates, he said, suggest that the aggregate value of rural
production may not be lower than last financial year, the
decline in wool receipts being offset by substantial gains in
wheat and barley. Population increase should continue to
enlarge consumption spending in total. Government
expenditure will be higher, and it seems that private capital
expenditure is being well maintained.
However tlie deterioration in our
overseas balance of payments posi-
tion and the present relatively low
wool prices are not at all encourag-
ing. Even after taking into account
capital inflow, there could be a
deficit of the order of £Al_5
millions. Our foreign exchange re-
serves can stand this drain, but a
loss of this magnitude should not
be accepted lightly.
Test May Come in 1959/60
For the present, we should be
able to maintain internal activity
without any really embarrassing
difficulties, but problems c-ould
easily emerge by 1959/60. On cur-
rent indications, this could be a
period when some of the economic
and monetary policies that we
have developed may come under
real test, unless, of course, there
is in the meantime a substantial
improvement in world commodity
prices and especially in wool prices.
For a start, our ability to continue
to import at the basic rate of, say,
around fSOO millions per annum
might be in jeopardy. As a very
high proportion of imports, prob-
ably more than 80 per cent., are
products required by industry here,
any reduction of moment might
well have unfortunate effects upon
internal business. We could not
afford.'said Mr. Giddy, to continue
to offset lower export receipts by
internal monetary expansion, if for
no other reason than that of costs.
With the terms of trade, turned
against us. we cannot afford to do
anything which risks imposing
higher costs upon our export indus-
tries or increases our appetite for
more imports.
Should world commodity prices
prove to have become more or less
stabilized around lower average
levels than have ruled since the
war. a basic problem would present
itself. Even though we are work-
ing hard to expand the quantity
and range of our exports, no quick
improvement in export receipts can
match, say. a 25/30 per cent, rise
in wool prices.
The plain fact is that Australia
must- guard its international sol-
vency by retaining adequate foreign
exchange reserves. Witli the present
outlook for export prices, Mr.
Giddy does not believe that we
could contemplate permitting our
reserves to continue to run down at
the rate of £lOO millions or more
per annum.
Internal Recession Avoided
The slowing up in business
activity over most of the western
world and the reduction of approxi-
matel.v £l7O millions in the value
of rural production during the
1957/58 season, subjected Australia
to tlie risk that activity in the
primary and secondary industries
would not be high enough to
employ our working population.
Fortunately, this has been
avoided, and although industry
as a whole may not be employed
to full capacity, it is a fact
that in a number of important
commodities production has been
expanding, despite strong competi-
tion, and internal price stability
has been virtually achieved, said
Mr. Giddy.
Last year I said that measures
to stimulate spending may be
necessary should the effects of
drought or of low export prices
threaten to reduce business and
employment much below full
activity. In fact. considerable
monetary expansion has already
been undertaken as an offset to the
adverse influences: trading bank
advances have risen by about £BO
millions over the last twelve
months, and the Commonwealth
Government has provided for the
expansion of the Treasury Bill
issue by up to £llO millions during
the current financial year. The
Government has thus recognised
that flexibility in monetary policy
is essential, and is making a
soundly based attempt to offset
the adverse effects of the overseas
business recession, which, however,
now appears to be showing definite
signs of improvement.
Banking Legislation
Last year, I referred to a number
of banking Bills presented to the
Federal Parliament in October.
1957. The subsequent rejection of
these measures by the Senate was
unfortunate, as they were a com-
mendable attempt by the Govern-
ment to give Australia a true
central bank and to ensure fair,
competitive banking, with freedom
of choice to the public. We are
hopeful that the legislation will
be resubmitted and will be passed
by the new Parliament.
Balance Sheet
Excluding the contingent item,
assets increased by £858,531. Ad-
vances rose sharply by £21,678,05G,
with a corresponding reduction in
liquid assets. This rise went
mainly .to primary producers,
secondary industry and wholesale
and retail trade.
Gross earnings increased by
£316.753 and operating costs by
£271.095, with a resultant improve-
ment in net profit of £45,515.
10s. 6d. to yield 6 p.c. on the
basis of the 124 p.c. dividend
sanctioned for the year gone by
do p.c. of this was tax-free in
the hands of shareholders); and,
in the absence of anything
really sensational in the way
of reserves—net tangible cover
for each unit was 7s. 4d. on
June 30—buyers are banking
on the continuance of Cemac’s
earning-power, or, at least, of
the status quo to justify the
high premium paid.
As a manufacturer, importer,
merchandiser and fitter of
plywood and veneer products,
the group to a large extent
shares the fortunes of the un-
predictable building industry,
but possibly can claim a flexi-
bility not possessed by firms
engaged in allied fields,
There was a doubling of
paid capital from three issues
in the course of the past term,
About 236,000 shares in Cemac
Associated were taken-up at a
premium by former members
of the Rosebery Veneer group
of companies, which Cemac
earlier had bought for an un-
disclosed cash figure. About the
same time (April), ordinary
shareholders were treated to a
one-for-four par issue embrac-
ing 80,000 shares and later on
a Cairns (Q.) veneer-manufac-
turer was taken over for
28,496 shares as part-considera-
tion.
The Rosebery deal welds to
Cemac its chief supplier, most
of whose plywoods, veneers
and solid door-panels had
been absorbed by the parent,
which itself was formerly
solely an importer, distributor
and contractor, with especial
interests in the internal parti-
tioning of the new pocket sky-
scrapers which are gracing
Sydney’s skyline.
Here are the results for the
two full years to date:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
June Re-
-30, Profit. ( Dividend N serves.*
£ £ £
Share exes, w/off, £1467 .. 7.016
Over-provision for tax, £2.171 9,587
1957..20,037 10 p.c. = 8,000 21,624
Share premiums, £21,636 . , 43,260
Assets revalued, £2506 .. 45,826
Capital profit, £3 . . .. 45,829
Added on consolidation.
£17.982 .. . . .. 63,811
1958. .35,990 121 p.c. = 20,419 79,382
* Subject to intangibles, £2212 at
30/6/’5B.
Group earnings as shown above
include those of some sub-
sidiaries only from the date
of takeover. Adjusting back
for the full year, consolidated
net profit more than doubled,
from £20,036 in 1956-57 to
£50,580 last year.
This was the distributable
residue after £27,057 more
had been provided for tax, at
£38,613, and £12,257 more for
depreciation, at £13,476, and
represented a percentage return
of 2.3 p.c. on an effective
turnover of £1,482,689
(£908,609 in the 1957 term).
The rate of (adjusted) net
profit earned on paid capital
was 30.4 p.c. this year, com-
pared with 25 p.c. in 1956-57.
The latest balance - sheet
presents an entirely new
aspect: —
CejUac Associated and Subsidiaries.
1957. 1958.
Paid capital £BO.OOO £166,199
Reserves .. .. 21,624 79,382
Outside interest .. 2 4
Mortgages, etc. .. 5.500 54,130
Overdraft .. .. 10,857 31,431
Creditors .. .. 102,693 145,557
Tax provision .. 11,722 39.094
Final dividend .. 8,000 12,465
£240,400 £528,862
Freeholds .. .. 25,513 .81,752
Leaseholds ~ .. 8.379
Plant, etc 10,981 72.283
Shares .. .. 6.008 88
Stock .. ... 65,260 149.917
Debtors .. .. 125,422 207,315
Cash, etc 5,312 6,916
Intangibles .. .. 1,904 2,212
£240,400 £528,862
In comparing more -or - less
liquids at £364,148 with
£229,147 of current liabilities,
it is a reasonable assumption
that there is a fairly rapid
turn-around of book-debts and
inventories.
As far as the current year is
concerned, the directors say
that plywood sales have in-
creased and that timber sales
continue at a satisfactory level.
New products are still being
developed and the plywood
industry is today one of the
“top growth” industries in
many countries, and particu-
larly in the U.S.
Operations have now been
extended to all three eastern
mainland States.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY UNITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
'Thoughts of an impending
A general election are draw-
ing non-political interested
parties into the arena. All are
obviously frightened of a
Labor victory and are striving
to draw public attention to the
consequences, especially the
essential one nationalisation
or any euphemism for it.
The steel companies, which
naturally consider themselves
to be the most immediately
vulnerable, have launched an
active campaign. Now the
Federation of British Industries
has entered the lists by publish-
ing a 68-page report which
challenges the proponents of
nationalisation on two counts:
by a backward look at the
record of the nationalised
industries, with a complete
financial analysis, in tabular
form, of individual results ; and
by a forward look at what
might happen if a Government
acquires large blocks of shares
in industry (“nationalisation by
the back-door”).
On the first count, the F.B.L
reaches the main conclusion
that nationalisation “cannot
yet be said to fulfil the expec-
tations of outstanding progress
and improvements held out by
the nationalises” and offers
these detailed criticisms: be-
cause their costs are too high
the nationalised industries are
inefficient ; furthermore, “a
mistaken belief that the national
interest is served by low prices
of essential services irrespec-
tive of cost” has led them into
insolvency ; all have failed “to
allow for proper depreciation
in the determination of .prices,
which means that (they) have
been mortgaging the future” ;
the workers are neither better
nor happier than they were
under private enterprise ; and
“the mere fact of State owner-
ship has not in any way in-
creased productivity.”
On the second count, the
report exposes the fallacy of a
shareholding Government
being able to realise capital-
gains for the benefit of the
community by the self-evident
argument that before you can
sell you must find a buyer.
Don’ts for Directors
It is unlikely that any of our
professional associations is as
virile and go-ahead as the
Institute of Directors, whose
publication, “Health Problems
of Directors,” has been widely
sought outside its member-
ship.
Commonsense, clinical medi-
cine and psychiatry are here
combined with high-level work-
study to induce the executive
to pause and examine his back-
ground, of leisure as well as of
work. The one-man business
or director of a family firm,
though allotted a paragraph
to himself, hardly comes within
the scope of this survey, for
it is not easy for him to avoid
“overwork, insufficient relax-
ation and failure to delegate” ;
nor is there anyone to “push
him out of the office’’ when he
is “too_busy to take his annual
holiday.”
Frustration or Overwork?
The homily, nevertheless, is
bound to be taken to heart in
the larger, fuller-staffed con-
cerns. For the executive’s
troubles are by no means
always due to a heavy load of
work. Temperament and per-
sonality, complexity of respon-
sibilities, wounded self-esteem
and a whole variety of emo-
tional stresses are even more
conducive to breakdown than
excessive work. (“As much
stress and strain is caused by
frustration as by overwork.’’)
Other concomitants are
“over - drinking, over - eating,
too much smoking and not
enough exercise.” Of alcohol
(defined as a poison but a
beneficial one), the booklet
states, “in reasonable doses it
is the lubricant of civilisation
and as a social stimulant,
relaxer and inhibition-remover
it is undoubtedly beneficial.
There is very little concrete
evidence that alcohol, in
moderate amounts, does any
real physical harm. Even in
large amounts it is morally
rather than physically harm-
ful.” But the booklet con-
demns the cocktail-party (be-
cause large quantities of strong
drink are taken on an empty
stomach and meals are missed)
as “a diabolical institution.”
There’s sound advice on air-
travel (“go part-way by boat,
try to break the journey, and
eat and drink half of what
is offered”) and on exercise,
which should be moderate, but
which is less satisfactory than
diet as a means of reducing
weight.
But the chief moral, after the
ordering of one's life so that
the body is not overtaxed,
seems to be the old and simple
“don't worry.”
From the German
Differences in national
character and understandable
prejudices have denied us
knowledge of the German
theatre. Now, a few weeks
after Schiller's “Mary Stuart,"
at the Old Vic, the Arts
Theatre has introduced us to
Germany's Ibsen, that just-
short-of-great, variable genius,
Gerhart Hauptmann.
“Garden of Loneliness” is
hardly a felicitous title for
“Einsame Menschen,” for the
kind of loneliness exemplified
arises out of congestion rather
than out of being alone. The
play cannot stand by itself:
the issues which the characters
so heatedly argue are made
absurd by their very antiquity ;
by modern standards the
writing is fussy and over-
crowded ; and the tragical end
is unconvincing and melo-
dramatic. Yet it is a vibrant
and intelligent play of much
interest historically.
Loneliness is not so much the
essence of the theme as the
resultant of it. Incompati-
bility is the real issue. The
four main characters are all
young. John Vockerat is a
stick-in-the-mud biologist and
a compulsive but uneasy rebel
(a self-portrait, it is believed,
of the author). His wife, Kitty,
is adoring, sweetly feminine
but mentally unstimulating. His
adopted brother, Leo, an
indolent artist and a bit of a
cad, introduces one Anna
Mahr, who turns out to be a
femme fatale of the period
(1890’s). She is so emancipated
from her sex as to be a student
of philosophy, a cigarette-
smoker and, discreetly, a free-
lover. She’s also foreign
(Russian). Anna and John
come more and more together
in a disruptive but • strictly
platonic friendship until finally
she has to go, largely because
of the intervention of John’s
parents, the one an anxious,
pious hausfrau and the other
a heavy, patriotic Teuton. The
parting is too much for John,
who tears-up the unfinished
book that symbolises’ his in-
effectuality and blows his
brains out.
This cold skeleton of the
plot is less than just. The
author’s pacifism, liberal out-
look and moderate politics
come through strongly and his
topicalities are by no means
recondite—for instance, the
flowering of German nation-
alism inspired by Bismarck and
Kaiser Wilhelm, the intolerant,
quasi-mystical isolationism, the
swing the other way influenced
by Karl Marx, and the predilec-
tion for intellectual rebels to
find sanctuary in Switzerland.
There are echoes of Strind-
berg and Tolstoy, pre-echoes
of Chekov, and a close affinity
with Ibsen. Hauptmann’s way
of gently injecting moralisms
also recalls Stanley Houghton.
Even more interesting are the
similarity of the theme (the
breaking-up of a family, osten-
sibly due to a foreign visitor
but really because of incom-
patibility) with that of Peter
Shaffer’s “Five Finger Exer-
cise,” and the close resemblance
of John and Kitty to Jimmy
and Alison Porter in “Look
Back in Anger.” Since neither
Peter Shaffer nor John
Osborne is likely to have known
Hauptmann’s works, who is to
say that the drama is not
cyclical?
A quartet of young actors
brings imagination, freshness,
enthusiasm and excellent dic-
tion to the playing. Richard
Duschinsky’s adaptation is
disappointing ; sometimes it is
stilted, Archer-fashion, and
sometimes it is facetiously up-
to-date, but his production is
sensitive and coherent.


Father O'Brien Breaks a Record
By
PETER MIDDLETON
With a long, barbaric
wail, the last bars of
“Cock o’ the North”
died away with the
echoing of the last boy’s boots
stamping down the corridor to
his class. And the bright
morning was suddenly still
again.
As Sister Angelina switched-
off the gramophone and
speaker and came rustling
along the school veranda
Father O’Brien straightened-
up from the rail, sighed heavily,
and turned towards her.
“Maybe ’twas a fine, stirring
piece of music when first it
was written, Sister,” he said,
“but, without admitting to any
undue prejudice, I’m bound to
say I'm beginning to find it
a bit of a bore.”
“It’s certainly a fine, stirring
piece,. Father,” said Sister
Angelina with an enthusiasm
she did not feel and a small,
sidelong glance at his round,
brooding face.
“And you the daughter of
generations of the fighting kings
of Connaught, to be praisin’ a
poor Scots bit of a tune!
There’s plenty o’ fine old Irish
marching-songs would make
rings round this miserable
squealing chant!” he said pro-
vokingly.
“What w'ould I be knowin’
about that, Father?” said the
Sister demurely. “But, it’s a
pity, I agree, that we haven’t
another one or two records on
which to ring the changes.”
Father O’Brien shoved his
black felt hat back from his
damp forehead. “Any record
would sound woeful on that
piece of mechanism. Worn
out, it is, with constant use, and
the speaker has chronic
bronchitis. Four times a day,
the same record, every day
except Saturday and Sunday,
for nearly a year! Even the
other side is unplayable! ’Tis
no wonder the whole contrap-
tion is falling to bits with
weariness and exhaustion. Not
even a machine could stand
that! What’s more, the whole
town must be as sick of this
tune as I am!”
“Never mind, Father/’
Sister Angelina said gently, as
classroom, “perhaps God will
send us some new records;
even, maybe, a new gramo-
phone. I’ll remember it in
my prayers tonight.”
“Far be it from me to
denigrate the power of your
intercession, Sister dear ; but,
from past experience in this
unpromising parish, I confess
I’m not anticipating any
miracles. It’s a hard enough
battle to keep the school
running, without consideration
of luxuries.”
Saying which, Father
O’Brien, with another deep
sigh, descended the veranda
steps, and walked heavily away
across the playground to the
school gate.
A few mornings later Father
O'Brien, coming across
the road from the presbytery,
was astonished to hear the
strains of “Colonel Bogey”
blaring from the gramophone’s
raucous speaker. As he entered
the school gate, he saw the
tail of the last class filing into
the building and noted that
there was a decided lift in
the knees of the marching boys
and a quickening of the step,
indicating appreciation of the
new march-tune. Sister
Angelina, after switching-off
the machine, met him at the
veranda steps with a happy
smile.
“Good morning, Father,”
she said, with a twinkling eye.
“How do you like the fine
new tune?”
“I see I must congratulate
you on the efficacy of your
prayers, Sister,” said Father
O’Brien, ascending the steps.
“Who was the instrument of
His charity, may I ask?”
“Mr. O’Callaghan, who has
the music-shop in
Street. Little Jimmy
O’Callaghan handed it to me
this morning, with another
one. That’s four new tunes
we have, now. It's wonderful,
is it not?”
“ ’Tis a great relief, to be
sure,” he said ; but his voice
did not reflect the enthusiasm
of Sister Angelina’s. She
paused in her progress towards
her classroom and looked at
she moved away to go to her Father O’Brien quizzically.
“You don’t seem so pleased
as I thought you’d be, Father,”
she said, gently reproving.
He seemed lost in thought,
staring out over the empty
playground. “ ’Tis not un-
grateful I am, you understand,
Sister,” he said, turning towards
her. “God knows anything is
a pleasant change from ‘Cock
o’ the North.’ Perhaps I was
hoping you might have had a
more spectacular success to
report. But He may be testing
our patience a little longer.
Or, maybe,” he said cryptically,
“our ingenuity?”
He smiled into her puzzled
face and moved off towards the
end of the veranda, where the
gramophone turntable stood on
a small bench. “I must have
a look at the new titles in our
record-library.”
He reached the turntable just
as the classroom door closed
behind Sister Angelina. Glanc-
ing behind him, he saw that
the veranda and the corridor
beyond were empty. From the
classrooms came the high-
pitched drone of the morning
prayer. He stooped and picked
up from the shelf beneath the
machine the two new records in
their shop-soiled envelopes. The
old one he left on the shelf.
Glancing around once more
to make quite sure he was
alone, without bothering to
look at the titles of the records,
he pressed them both gently
but firmly against his knee until
he heard the sharp crack that
told him both records had
snapped in half. Replacing
them on top of the old one
on the shelf, he walked quietly
back along the veranda.
Opening Sister Angelina’s
classroom door, he beckoned
to her and withdrew to the
corridor. When she came out,
pulling the door to behind her,


FELT AND TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
HEAD OFFICE: Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne. REGISTERED OFFICE: Feltex House, 261 George
Street, Sydney. PLANTS: Victoria, New South Wales, South Australia, Western Australia, Tasmania and
Queensland, South Africa and New Zealand.
EXTRACTS FROM THE 1958 ANNUAL REPORT
(For the year ended 30th June, 1958)
oiiiwn vnvaisnv k> 3
?
C ot austaaua iwiiTeo
MANUFACTURING ACTIVITIES:
Wool scourers and carbonisers, Wool combers and dyers,
topmakers, yarn spinners, manufacturers of woollen and
worsted cloths, woollen and hair felts, felt floor cover-
ings and carpets, flocks and waddings, printed and plain
plastics, embroideries, bedding products, and women’s,
men’s and children’s slippers and shoes.
CONSOLIDATED SALES:
£35,131,000 —1.7% below previous year due to a fall of
4% in sales of the Australian organisation, which reflected
the steady decline in wool values during the year. Not-
withstanding lower overall sales, export sales of approxi-
mately £4| million were higher than the previous year.
CONSOLIDATED NET PROFIT:
£1,078,355, of which £406.065 was attributable to Minority
Shareholders in Subsidiary Companies and £672,290 to the
Parent Company, compared with the Consolidated Profit
for 1956-57 of £1,070,406 and the Parent Company's share
thereof —£687,916.
Return on ordinary capital for 1957-58 was 16% as
compared with 16.4% for 1956-57.
DIVIDEND:
Dividend on Ordinary Capital was maintained at 10%.
FINANCE:
To provide additional working capital and cover general
expansion a £1,250,000 issue of 8% Registered Unsecured
Notes was made in March, 1958. The issue was heavily
oversubscribed.
AUSTRALIAN OPERATIONS:
The profit before tax, derived from Australian operations,
was £652,526, as compared with £752,885 in 1956-57. Lower
commodity prices largely influenced Australian conditions
during the year. The reduction in profits was more than
accounted for by the amount written off wool stocks
pursuant to the decline in the market. Nevertheless, profit
after deduction of tax and Minority Shareholders’ Interests
was only £28,770 lower than last year due to increased
taxation benefits received this year.
A difficult year was experienced by the Worsted, Wool
Processing and Embroidery sections of the Company.
On the other hand, excellent results were achieved by the
Footwear and Carpets plants, and satisfactory returns were
obtained from the other sections of the Company.
During the year the Company disposed of its clothing
business —Ellinson Bros, on satisfactory terms.
SOUTH AFRICAN OPERATIONS:
The South African Company experienced another successful
year, and profits of £A450,189, after tax, were only 2.5%
below the 1956-57 record profit. The Australian Company’s
share of profits was £A190,102 (last year £A 194,329). The
Directors of Felt and Textiles of South Africa Ltd. have
recommended an increase in the Ordinary Dividend from
10% to 12}%.
NEW ZEALAND OPERATIONS:
Record sales and profits were achieved by the New
Zealand Company. Profits after tax were £A 159,100, of
which the Australian Company’s share was £A64,810.
(Last year £A47,439.) A new issue of 237,500 Ordinary
Shares of £1 New Zealand each at a premium of ss. has
been made by Felt and Textiles of New Zealand Ltd. since
the close of the financial year.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE:
£794,918 for year, the greater part of which was expended
on the improvement and extension of existing installations.
Depreciation written off during year £629,530. Capital
Commitments at 30th June, 1958, amounted to £704,521,
which includes the expenditure on the new administrative
building in Melbourne.
YEAR ENDING 30th JUNE, 1959:
The aggregate profits of the organisation to date are
regarded by the Board of Directors as satisfactory.
SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS:
(Including Minority Interests in Subsidiaries)
£14,848,384.


she saw a thoroughly crest-
fallen man.
“Sister, I don't know how
to tell you,” he whispered
sadly ; “and I can’t think how
1 could have been so careless.”
He noted how swiftly her
mild, smooth face registered
alarm. Intuitively she had
guessed at once the calamity
that had happened.
“One of the new records,
Father?” she whispered
hoarsely.
“Both, Sister dear,” he said,
looking down at his feet. “I’m
ashamed of my clumsiness. All
your good efforts and Mr.
O’Callaghan's kindness gone
for naught. I shall have to
make amends. And I will
surely do that,” he said, look-
ing up again with the expres-
sion of a small boy imploring
forgiveness. “I will see what
can be done.”
And he left her. Sister
Angelina, with a sigh, returned
to her class.
the end of the after-
noon break, as the air
vibrated for the second time
that day with the raucous,
amplified blare of “Cock o’ the
North,” Father O’Brien made
his way along the road past
the school towards the main
street of the town. The sound
swept after him in waves,
bounced back at him from
the walls of houses as he
passed ; it filled the afternoon
with disquiet.
Thankfully, Father O'Brien
turned left at the top of the
street, into the shopping
thoroughfare of Bailey Street,
and a few yards along came to
Mr. O’Callaghan’s music- and
sports-goods emporium. He
noted, with secret satisfaction,
that Mr. O’Callaghan stood on
the footpath in front of his
shop, rather in the attitude of
a dog with ears cocked to a
hostile sound.
As the solid, black-coated
figure of the priest came into
his view, Mr. O’Callaghan’s
bald pate seemed to take on
the hue of its fringe of red
hair. His corpulent body
swelled a§ he inhaled a deep
breath and confronted Father
O’Brien squarely in his path.
“Good day to you, Mr.
O’Callaghan,” said the Father
disarmingly. “A lovely after-
noon.”
“A lovely afternoon, indeed,”
said Mr. O’Callaghan fiercely,
“ruined by that—that damned
noise !”
The explosion over, he con-
trolled himself and, clutching
the lapels of his cream linen
jacket, said: “What are you
trying to do to us, Father?
Destroy us? Our peace of
mind —and my business?”
“Noise? Peace of mind?
Destroy your business?”
Father O'Brien appeared
genuinely shocked. “Such
intemperate language is unlike
you, Mr. O’Callaghan. There
is something troubling your
spirit, dear man. You’ve had
a shock, maybe?”
Mr. O’Callaghan took hold
of himself. His voice was low
and strained. “That . . .
music, Father! That record!
We hear it, day-in-day-out,
four times a day! It’s driving
us all mad! I put a record on
my speaker when there’s a
few people on the street, by
way of a bit of entertainment,
with a little judicious adver-
tisement in it —it's killed stone-
dead by that cursed bit of
tuneless Scots breast-beating
vulgarity! ”
A light seemed to dawn in
Father O’Brien's eyes. “ ’Tis
the children’s marching-tune
you’re speaking of! Well now,
it’s astonished I am! To think
the sound can travel so far
from that poor, decrepit little
box o’ tricks at the school!
Being so used to it, you see,
I hadn’t realised ’tis true
enough, though, now you
mention it. It can be heard
quite plainly. A fine, stirring
tune, you must admit, Mr.
O’Callaghan.”
TV/fR. O’Callaghan hesitated ;
1 A then said: “Even Schu-
bert’s ‘Ave Maria’ would lose
something after four times a
day, five days a week, Father.
But, tell me: what happened
to the two records of marches
I sent my Jimmy up with?
Didn’t I hear ‘Colonel Bogey’
for one blessed instant this
morning?”
“Ah,” said Father O'Brien,
“you did indeed. And kind it
was of you to remember the
needs of your poor parish
school. Would to God there
were more like you, Mr.
O’Callaghan! But you’d never
believe the misfortune. All
your good intentions for noth-
ing!”
“I’m not with you, Father,”
said Mr. O’Callaghan coldly.
“The two beautiful records,
rn’dear fellow —broken, both
of ’em. I can't think how I
could have come to be so care-
less.”
“Broken! Bo'.h of ’em!”
“The both cf ’em, more’s
the pity, and more’s the shame
on me for an awkward, ham-
fisted old ... I was just look-
ing at them, you see —enjoy-
ing the thought of how, before
long, with the wonderful lead
you’d given, we might come to
have quite a library, and one
day perhaps even a really first-
class machine to broadcast
them when suddenly there
they were, on the floor. Poor
Sister Angelina almost thought
I’d done it on purpose—could
she ever have harbored such
a thought?”
“I can understand how the
Sister felt,” said Mr. O’Calla-
ghan grimly. “ Tis a cryin’
shame, so it is! ”
“It is, it is,” said Father
O'Brien. “It means we’ll just
have to go on using the one
record we possess and make the
best of it. It can’t be for long,
of course. The poor old music-
box itself has about had it.
’Tis a sad thing to contemplate,.
the day when we have no
music for the children to
march to.”
His eye wandered with dis-
arming casualness over Mr
O’Callaghan’s shoulder to the
window of the shop, in the
centre of which, as the piece
de resistance, stood a beautiful,
shining latest-model radio-
gram.
“They tell me the Parents’
and Citizens’ committee of the
North Street Public School are
installing one of those beautiful
things,” he said, pointing
diffidently at the window. “I
hope they bought it from you,
Mr. O’Callaghan, and not from
that heathen man, Evans, in
Green Street?”
Mr. O’Callaghan lookecl
towards the window, to screen
the slight embarrassment he
would otherwise have betrayed.
“As a matter of fact, I did get
the order, Father,” he said. “I
had to allow them a bit of a
discount, of course”
“Of course.”
Father nodded, musingly.
“And good it is to be able
to combine a nice little bit of
business with a gesture of
encouragement to the great
cause of musical education —
even if it is for the poor, mis-
guided pupils of a secular estab
lishment.”
He sighed and looked away.
“Ah, well,” he said resignedly,
“no doubt in God’s good
time our own parishioners will
be brought to see their respon-
sibilites in a similar way.
Meanwhile, we’ll just plod
along in our humble fashion,
making the best of what we
have. I’m sorry indeed, my
friend, if you suffer any incon-
venience thereby. Let us hope
it won’t be for much longer.
Good day to you, Mr,
O’Callaghan.”
With a scarcely audible
“Good-day” in reply, Mr.
O'Callaghan watched the
sturdy black figure of the priest
as he strode on down the
street; then he turned and went
thoughtfully back into his shop,
A bout a week later, Father
O’Brien stood on the
school veranda, watching the
last of Sister Angelina’s class
bamp through the corridor, to
the last strains of the worn and
ragged old “Cock o’ the
North.” As Sister Angelina
rustled busily along the
veranda, he turned towards her,
his round face beaming with
pleasure.
“Your recent prayers must
have been uncommonly accept-
able,’ Sister dear,” he said,
“even if the results do seem
to smack a little of delayed
action.”
Not quite knowing how to
take Father O’Brien these
days, Sister Angelina said
nothing, but looked question-
ingly into his smiling blue
eyes.
“ ’Tis a wonderful thing, when
a handful of right-thinking
citizens get their heads together
in a great cause, what some-
times comes out of their
deliberations.”
“I’m afraid I don’t under-
stand, Father. What is the
great cause you refer to?”
“Our parish Parents’ Com-
mittee has been revived, as you
know. This morning, I hear
that at yesterday’s meeting it
was unanimously decided to
equip the school with a radio-
gram and a box of records—
and a new amplifier! Not a
new one, you understand ; that
would run into a great deal of
money. But a very nice second-
hand model which Mr. O’Cal-
laghan was able to let them
have cheap.”
“Wonderful!” breathed
Sister Angelina, the tears
starting to her eyes so that she
had hurriedly to hang her head.
“Ah,” said Father O’Brien,
starting down the veranda
steps into the sunny morning)
“God is good!”
Then he stopped, turned
back up the steps and pro-
ceeded along the veranda
towards the bench with the
turntable on it. If Sister
Angelina had a thought as to
his mission, she gave no sign
but went on to her classroom,
entered and closed the door
behind her, happy in the con-
viction that the “Cock o’ th®
North” had crowed for the la s
time.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
C lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Auitralia.
On the Rocks
By MORGAN JONES
I was sitting in the far
corner of the cocktail-bar
when the girl walked in.
She was slim, tanned to a
light brown, and she had fair
hair tied in a ponytail. In her
flat-heeled shoes she walked
like a matador on his entry into
the ring, and her tight fawn
dress increased the illusion.
She said to the barman,
“One dry martini, please,” and
perched herself on a stool.
While waiting for the drink
she glanced around the bar,
and our eyes met. She smiled
faintly, paid for her martini,
and brought the glass over
to my table.
“I've seen you somewhere
before,” she smiled, setting her
glass down on the formica-
topped table. “And don’t tell
me it’s an overworked line.”
“It is,” I replied, looking
casually at her well-known
face. The dark-grey eyes and
full, wide mouth currently
adorned the pages of a dozen
fashion magazines. “But we ll
let it pass.”
She took a silver cigarette-
case out of a side-pocket on
her dress.
“Thanks,” she said. “It’s
not often I can get away with
it.”
Che lit the cigarette, settling
her full, red lips around the
filter-tip. Alternately smoking
and sipping her drink, she
waited for me to say some-
thing.
“What time did you get up
this morning?” I asked he>\
“That's more than a lead-
ing question.”
“I'm sorry,” I apologised.
“I thought 1 was in a position
to ask it.”
She smiled her fashion-
model’s smile. Two creases
appeared on either side of her
mouth and her cheekbones be-
came prominent. It was a
smile without warmth.
“Drink-up,” she said. “The
day’s young yet.”
“All the more reason why
I should take my time. I try
not to have more than two or
three before lunch. It’s an old
rule of mine.”
“Do you live up to it?”
“Not often,” I smiled. “In
Ihis climate it’s almost an
impossibility.”
Outside the sky was light
blue and cloudless. They had
just opened the bar windows,
and now a cool breeze circled
the room. We were the only
two in the bar.
“What are you drinking?” I
asked needlessly.
“Nothing, thanks. This one
was made to last.”
“Wise girl,” I said. I
beckoned the barman over to
our table. “Whisky with ice,
please.”
“Am I in time to see ‘Jungle Jim'?”
She smiled at the barman
with her eyes. “On the rocks,”
she amended.
“All right,” I laughed. “On
the rocks, if you prefer it that
way.”
TTer American accent was
barely discernible. It had
the cultivated edge of an
English actress's after 12
months in Hollywood.
“Isn’t this just the time for
a swim?” she yawned. “I feel
I could laze by the pool all
day.”
“I’m going to do the same
thing shortly,” I replied.
The barman returned with
my drink on a small metal tray.
He had a clean white towel
over his forearm, and he
placed my glass carefully in
front of me. As he leaned
forward I caught a breath of
perfume.
I tipped him lightly. He
murmured, “Thank you,”
without adding “sir.”
“That’s my boy,” she said
when the barman had gone.
She raised her glass with an
expertness acquired at count-
less parties. “They get paid
enough as it is ”
“Well,” I said. “Here's to
us „
She wrinkled her nose.
“That's an abused toast.”
.
O.k. Here s to your future
happiness. ’
That s better.
W, .
E drank in silence. A
middle-aged couple came
into the bar, the wife cradling
a white poodle in her arms,
Above our heads the fans
started whirring.
The girl finished her drink
and stubbed her cigarette out.
“I’ll see you later on,” she
smiled, rising with practised
skill from her plastic-covered
chair. “The cool water calls
me.”
“Don’t dive too deep,” I
warned her.
“I’ll try not to. If you hear
a scream come and save me.”
* ** do that.
watched her go out of the
bar, her firm thighs supple
beneath the fawn dress, before
going over to the counter.
. "° ne mo L e i' '} s ?! d to ' he
barman. And then I m
,h ™“ sh * or ,‘ he
. „ N «* "'“drer we re hav ng.
sir, he smiled, sliding my glass
across the zinc-topped counter,
“Too war m,” I replied.
“Give me London any day.”
“Yes, sir,” he agreed.
/”vutside in the sunlight I
felt the refreshing breeze
brush across my face. My wife
was talking to an Austrian ski-
instructor we had 'met the
previous evening. Each time
she laughed the ponytail
swayed against her smooth,
tanned neck,
1 leaned on the ship’s rail
and wondered why sea air had
this effect on women.


THE NEW PARLIAMENT
Many months of preliminary
sparring and propaganda, five or
six weeks of spirited campaign-
ing, enough prophecies and
forecasts to fill a dozen Nostradamus
volumes, and the casting of about five-
million votes have, after all, made very
little difference in the alignment of
parties in the House of Representatives.
When Parliament meets in February the
Government’s majority will be slightly
bigger than in the old Parliament. But
its old majority was so big that the
difference won’t be noticed. In the
Senate, on the other hand, the slight
change will be of great significance.
Instead of an evenly divided House
(Government, 30 ; A.L.P., 27 ; D.L.P.,
2 ; Q.L.P., 1) the Government will hold
32 seats against a combined Opposition
of -28 (A.L.P., 26 ; D.L.P., 2). The old
Senate, of course, will not expire until
the end of June, so the Government will
not have the benefit of its Senate
majority until Parliament returns from
the winter recess. If the proposals of
the Constitutional Reform Committee are
adopted this may be the last occurrence
of an overlapping Senate.
New Faces
A lthough the election didn’t change
the relative strengths of the opposing
parties very much there will be quite
a number of new faces in the next Par-
liament. The biggest batch will come
from Queensland, where resignations and
Labor losses affected five seats. John
Murray, a 42-year-old farmer and cattle-
breeder who served with the A.I.F. in
the Middle East, New Guinea and
Borneo, is the new member for Herbert,
having defeated W. F. Edmonds, who
had held the seat for Labor since 1946.
Murray was the joint candidate of the
Country party and the Liberals. He will
sit with the Liberals in Canberra. On
Monday, with the count almost over, it
looked as though A. A. Chresby, with
the help of Q.L.P. preferences, would beat
W. C. Coutts in Griffith, a swinging
metropolitan seat which since the war
has voted three times Liberal and three
times Labor. Chresby had a shot at the
seat once before —in 1946, when he stood
as a Service-party candidate.
H. N. Bandidt, new Country-party
member for Wide Bay (from which W. A.
Brand retired at the end of the last
Parliament), is a solicitor at Monto in
the Burnett district, where he also owns
a dairyfarm. Sir Arthur Fadden’s suc-
cessor in McPherson is C. E. Barnes,
a horsebreeder who conducts a very suc-
cessful stud at Canning Downs, near
Warwick. On the Labor side there will
be only one new man from Queensland
—W. J. Fulton, who won Leichhardt,
held for the last seven years by the late
H. A. Bruce. Fulton is Mayor of Cairns,
the biggest town in the electorate.
Another Labor newcomer who has
held a top job in municipal politics is
C. K. Jones, who steps into Dave
Watkins’s shoes as M.H.R. for Newcastle.
He’s a former Lord Mayor of the steel
city and his election breaks a 58-year-
old tradition —no one but a Watkins has
ever previously represented Newcastle in
the Federal Parliament. Dave Watkins,
senior, held the seat from 1901 to 1935
and Dave Watkins, junior, from 1935
until his retirement a few weeks ago.
A. E. Watkins, a brother of Dave, junior,
made a bid to keep the seat in the
family, standing as a Liberal on Novem-
ber 22, but the voting clearly indicated
that the electors regarded sentiment as
out of place in party politics.
Young Blood
r T''HE successful candidate in Barton,
Dr. Evatt’s deserted love, is L. J.
Reynolds, who will be one of the
youngest men in the Reps. He’s 34 and
is a lecturer at Sydney Teachers’ Train-
ing College. His win must have some-
thing of a bitter-sweet flavor for his
leader, who swam in comfortably on a
flood of surplus votes in Rowley James’s
old seat, Hunter. The third Labor new-
boy in N.S.W. is T. Uren, who won the
A.L.P. nomination for Reid (and with
it the seat) when C. A. Morgan spoke
his mind about the Doc. L. D. Clay, who
seems to have snatched St. George from
Bruce Graham by a handful of votes,
will now have the job of holding a seat
which has changed hands at three
successive elections.
Labor’s only new member from Vic-
toria —unless Doug Elliot, TV- and
radio-personality, pips P. W. Stokes
at the post in
be Frank Courtnay, State and Federal
secretary of the Plumbers’ Union,
who had an absolute majority in Darebin,
vacated by R. W. Holt, who won it from
D. member T. W. Andrews three
years ago. There’ll be rna new Liberal
members from Victoria, but the Country
party has increased its numbers by two,
supplanting the Liberal members in Indi
and Wimmera. Rendle Holten, new
M.H.R. for Indi, was a prominent Col-
lingwood footballer for several years
after the war, in which he served as
a test-pilot with the R.A.A.F. He’s now
a storekeeper at Wangaratta. Holten
took the seat from Air-Vice-Marshal
Bostock, who had held it since 1949. The
second Country-party gain was Wim-
mera, where R. S. King unseated Liberal
W. R. Lawrence, like Bostock a mem-
ber since the 1949 landslide. King is
a sheepfarmer from Warracknabeal who
served with the A.I.F. in Tobruk -and
was wounded in New Guinea. Bostock
and Lawrence are victims of the L.-C.P.-
C.P. feud in Victoria ; as sitting mem-
bers of the senior Government party
they were naturally placed last on the
A.L.P. voting-ticket. At the same time,
they had overcome similar challenges
before, so credit is due to the personal
appeal of the two C.P. men. Holten and
King will bring down the average age
of the Victorian C.P. contingent. One
is 36, the other 38.
There’ll be one new member from
South Australia on each side of the
House. J. C. Sexton, new M.H.R. for
Adelaide, has been secretary of the S.A.
branch of the A.L.P. for five years. He’s
a municipal councillor and has been
Labor’s campaign-director in several elec-
tions. He succeeds Cyril Chambers, like
C. Morgan a casualty of the can’t-win-
under-Evatt rumpus. C. R. Kelly,
Defence Minister Mcßride’s successor in
Wakefield, easily held the seat for the
Government. A farmer from Tarlee, he
is a recognised authority on pasture-
improvement and fodder - conservation
and won a Nuffield scholarship in 1951
winch took him to England to study
British farming methods.
With preferences still to be distributed
it looked on Monday as though E. D.
Cash would be the new Government
member for Stirling (W.A.), displacing
A.L.P. member C. H. Webb. Kalgoorlie
wiil also send a new member, but the
scrutineers haven’t decided yet whether
it will be F. W. Collard (A.L.P.) or P. G.
Browne (Lib.). If the latter, he’ll be the
first Liberal from the goldfields for a
long, long time. H. A. Halbert (Lib.)
may also displace H. A. Leslie (C.P.) in
Moore when Labor seconds are counted.
New Senators
/'Yf the 28 retiring senators who faced
the electors only two —Senator Byrne
(Q.L.P.) and Liberal Senator Words-
worth (Tas.) —failed to get back.
Senator Byrne’s place will be filled by
Dr. Dittmer, former Labor M.L.A. for
Mt. Gravatt and, for a brief spell after
last year’s split, A.L.P. deputy-leader in
the Queensland Assembly. C. Ridley and
A. J. Drury will be new Labor senators
from Soutn Australia. Both have been
active A.L.P. workers for many years.
They replace Senators Critchley and
Ryan, who did not seek re-election.
There will also be two new senators
from W.A. —Liberal George Branson, a
wheatfarmer who was a p.-0.-w. in
Malaya, and Labor Senator H. Cant.
Westralian senators who did not
stand this time were J. M. Fraser
and John Harris, Labor veterans
who had been 20 and 10 years
respectively in the Senate. Senator
Branson was No. 3 in the Liberal
team in 1955, but missed election, the
third Government seat going to Agnes
Robertson, who had been diopped from
the Government team and stood as a
Country-party candidate. The same
pattern was followed in Westralia this
year, the Liberal-Country League and
the Country-Democratic League fielding
separate teams with exchange of
preferences.
A. E. Lillico is Tasmania’s only new
senator; he displaced fellow-Liberal
Wordsworth.


start the day right!
US
-Wm
m
/• *s,
FA _
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Cricketers
The Australian Test-team, as
announced last Wednesday, is
a good choice, and it is very
doubtful ’ whether a stronger
Australian side could be found.
If it’s licked, it will be because
England has an even stronger
side.
A couple could be said to
be “lucky”—Kline and Simp-
son, for instance. But both
did well in the Tests in South
Africa last season, and until
it is shown conclusively that
they are not a match for
England they deserve a place.
No one omitted has better
claims than either, though
Martin, - say, or leg-spinner
Philpott could replace Kline
before the series is over.
Three omissions from the
first choice with possibly the
best claims of any others are
all openers Favell and
Stevens (S.A.) and- Carroll
(N.S.W.). But none could
force his way into a side before
McDonald and Burke if those
two are fit.
The best Test-captain, Sir
Donald Bradman believes, is a
specialist batsman, and one
whose place is in no doubt.
On the other hand, Arthur
Mailey, in his lately published
10 for 66 and All That, thinks
the best captain should have
at least an understanding of
the finer points of spin-
bowling. In this regard Aus-
tralia’s present choice as
skipper couldn’t be improved
on—Richie Benaud ; and there
seems no reason why he
shouldn’t be a good captain.
Last skipper against England
was, of course, also a spin-
bowler—lan Johnson. And two
of Australia’s greatest captains
were great all-rounders
M. A. Noble and Warwick
Armstrong.
% • • •
The last three Tests in
Brisbane between Australia and
England (1946, 1950 and 1954)
have all been won by big
margins by Australia ; the three
Brisbane Tests before that
(1928, 1932 and 1936) were all
won by hefty margins by
England. The 1928 Test was
the first played in Brisbane.
Bain took a hand in some of
these matches, and if it didn’t
actually affect results, it at
least did affect the winning
margins.
The 1928 Test was Brad-
man’s first Test. He failed,
making 18 and 1, was dropped
for the second Test, came back
and made a century in the
third, and was never there-
after omitted from a Test. In
the 1946 Test in Brisbane,
Bradman made 187, after sur-
viving the controversial “Was
“I never seem t ’ have any luck with this push-button
two-up."
he out or wasn’t he?” snick to
Ikin in slips off Voce when he
was 28.
On Saturday, after there had
been hardly any play on Friday,
the M.C.C. crashed against
Queensland, to make their
lowest total in Australia, 151.
Man mainly responsible was
Ray Lindwall, who took 5-57
off 15.4 overs. Mackay also
got three very economical
wickets, 3-14. Best M.C.C.
batsmen —Subba Row, 51, and
Milton, an attractive 26. Bailey
made a long and tedious 33 —
justifiably defensive early, to
stop the rot; unjustifiable and
completely pointless when the
tail showed no sign of any
wagging motions.
* * *
W.A.’s four Sheffield Shield
matches on its eastern tour
yielded one outright loss (by
N.S.W.), two defeats on the
first innings (by Queensland and
Victoria) and one first-innings
win (over S.A.). W.A. had a
degree of bad luck, in losing
skipper Meuleman at a vital
stage against N.S.W. and being
without him against Victoria,
and in losing fast - bowler
Gaunt for two matches.
'Keeper Watson broke a finger
against Queensland, but his
replacement, former State
’keeper Buggins, proved ade-
quate. As well, one or two of
its players failed completely.
Some highlights of the four
games, for and against, not
already mentioned in these
pages: a century in each
innings, 104 and 145, by S.A.
opener Favell (second time in
Shield-cricket he’s done it; he
made 112 and 114 against
N.S.W. in January, 1957); two
good knocks (128 against Q.,
139 against S.A.) by W.A. left-
hand bat Vernon ; 180 not-
out by Meuleman against
S. an all-round 76 and 7-65
(in W.A.’s second innings) for
N.S.W. by Test - captain
Benaud ; 6-81 and 3-20 by
Gaunt against Queensland;
and 6-85 by fast-bowler Hoare,
who had been injured and was
not available for the whole
trip, against S.A.
* * *
“A.L.”: In the review of
Rothmans’ “Test Cricket
Almanack” (B. 12/11/’5B),
T. S. Worthington is cited as
the only batsman in the history
of England-Australia Tests to
be dismissed by the first ball
of the match. If my memory
is not playing me tricks,
English opener A. C. Russell
qualified for the “honor” when
Kelleway scattered his stumps
on the first day of the first
Test in the 1920-21 series. And
until someone contradicts me,
add the name of Fishlock to
the list: caught Oldfield,
bowled McCormick, with the
first shiny sizzler of the Test
at Brisbane in 1936.
[A. C. Russell was bowled first
ball of England’s innings in the
first 1920-21 Test, but it was not
the first ball of the game—Australia
had batted first. And “A.L.” is
confusing Fishlock with Worthing-
ton, who was dismissed as he states
in Brisbane in 1936. Fishlock came
to Australia with the 1936 and 1946
English teams, but played in only
one Test against Australia, the fifth
1946-47 Test, in which Hutton faced
the first ball of the match.]
* * *
“Judee”: An Australian
woman Test-cricketer has been
appointed a nursing-sister at the
Point McLeay (S.A.) aborigines’
reserve. She is Sister Faith
Coulthard, the first aboriginal
woman to receive such an
appointment. As a fast-bowler
she was selected to play against
England in Test-matches earlier
this year, and she has “repped”
for S.A. in interstate games.
* * *
Sydney Horses
For the second successive
Saturday leading Sydney
trainer T. J. Smith led in four
winners, the first batch at War-
wick Farm and the second at
the Canterbury meeting at the
weekend. All four Canterbury
winners—Marksman (10 to 9),
The Wensum (evens), Plymouth
(3 to 1) and Sun Feast (second-
favorite at fours) —were ridden
by George Moore, who had
also ridden three of the War-
wick winners.
Before winning the Canter-
bury Park Maiden Two-year-
old for fillies Sun Feast had
had three outings, her starting-
prices being 25 to 1, 100 to 1


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
{lncorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £20,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone; BW 8131 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
and 200 to 1, hardly a recom-
mendation for any race, but
horses improve quickly at
times, and prices .diminish as
suddenly. Evidently the Smith
stable had seen something to
go on ; in any case, she hadn’t
much to beat on Saturday,
apart, perhaps, from the
favorite, Forest Music, a slow
starter from the barrier. Sun
Feast is by Fair’s Fair (imp.)
from Queen Hippolyte (imp.)
and cost 700gns. as a yearling
at the New Zealand sales last
January. Smith races her in
partnership with M. E. Bylos.
Merger, a Canterbury
specialist, has now had five
starts on that track and hasn’t
been defeated. His win there
on Saturday was a solid first-up
effort after a spell. Merger
being a Victorian-trained gal-
loper, whose mentor, W. A.
Briscoe, makes occasional
visits to Sydney, punters hadn’t
anything to go on, and the
gelding went out at 14 to 1,
for one of the easiest wins seen
in a Sydney sprint for some
time. His jockey, K. Mitchell,
was easing him down before
the finish, yet he ran the six
furlongs in lmin. 12.4 sec. —
good for Canterbury.
The performances of two
other runners in the Canter-
bury Flying—Grenoble and
Huntly—were interesting, with
the Villiers (December 20) in
mind. Neither horse was fan-
cied for the Flying. Grenoble
hadn’t run since July, while
Huntly hadn’t started since his
close second to Turkestan in
the Epsom. As a Doncaster
winner, Grenoble was handi-
capped to that form, and,
though defeated, he carried his
9.5 with distinction. In the
early part of the sprint both
horses were travelling easily at
the rear of the field, and their
jockeys made their runs at the
same time. Huntly finished
second and Grenoble fourth,
though close to Huntly. Both
will be all the better for the
run, particularly Grenoble.
Now a five-year-old entire,
Grenoble carried the colors of
his owner, G. A. Carr, for the
first time —he had been raced
on lease by his trainer, Frank
Lewis, and two other partners.
Through winning Canter-
bury Park’s Campsie Stakes
with 9st., Marksman now goes
into open company, and should
quickly score over a middle-
distance against the company
now contesting such races on
Sydney tracks. A four-year-
old gelding by Marco Polo II
(imp.) from Flying Vixen by
Foxbridge (imp.) from Flying
Juliet by Romeo (imp.), the
gelding is half-brother to Ford-
ham, good winner of staying
races in Melbourne. Flying
Juliet won 17 races at up to
1? mile, including the Great
Northern Oaks, while Flying
Vixen’s sister, Catterick Bridge,
won the two-mile New Zealand
Cup. (Incidentally, though
Jack’s Count missed a place at
Canterbury he is near the
money.)
Bland Beck, trainer of
Canterbury’s First Ashbury
Stakes winner, Merry Inn, has
a big team in work at Rose-
bery, some as yet untried.
Merry Inn has proved a sound
buy at 325gns. as a yearling,
he having now won several
races, the last three in suc-
cession. At Canterbury he won
easily. By Wayside Inn (imp.)
from Merry Muse (imp.),
Merry Inn is a good sprinter,
and could develop into a smart
Welter type.
• • • •
Veteran mentor Dan Lewis,
who retired a few seasons ago,
trained five winners of the
Sydney Cup, including Contact
(1936). A genuine stayer
(placed in both the V.R.C. and
A.J.C. St. Legers), Contact was
the leading Australian-bred
sire in the New Zealand
1950-51 season. His t besfi was
Calibrate (seven wins and
£15,460 in stakes, including the
New Zealand Cup). Consider,
narrow winner of the Canter-
bury Park midweek Maiden
Handicap with, top weight
(8.10), is a five-year-old Contact
gelding from Justina, winner
of several races in New Zea-
land. The Canterbury distance
(9j furlongs) suited Consider,
who should now go on to
further success.
Trainer R. C. Stuart is
having his best season since he
started with a small team of
horses at Rosebery. At the mid-
week Canterbury fixture two
more were added to his
winners when Royal Perception
(Second Highweight) and
Morning Gleam (Midweek
Cup) landed successive events.
Royal Perception is raced by
his breeder, M. V- Point, who
also owns Morning Gleam,
raced on lease by the trainer’s
wife. Morning Gleam led
practically all the way in the
Cup, the trophy for which, a
£5O canteen of cutlery, was a
special pleasure to the Stuart
household.
• • • •
Crack two-year-old Romani
held such a mortgage on the
Newcastle Jockey Club’s Nor-
thern Stakes (41 furlongs) that
he started at 5 to 2 on, with
25 to 200 to 1 bar 2 on offer.
Winner of three Sydney races
on end, Romani duly made it
an unbroken four; the colt
is one of the best youngsters
in training. , Few races are run
at 4j furlongs, and his 52fsec.
went close to Australia’s best,
made by English
Standard at the same track in
December, 1953, and later
equalled there by Dark
Moments and Newtown Boy.
But had Romani been pushed-
out he would have broken the
record.
Yet another of the success-
ful progeny of Rising Fast’s
sire, Alonzo (imp.), was among
the winners at the latest Albion
Park (Brisbane) fixture—the
three-year-old filly Colesta,
who cost a modest 200gns. at
the New Zealand yearling-sales
last year. Winner of the First
Maiden Handicap in promising
style, the filly is out of Cop-
pelia by Balloch (imp.) from
Dancing Water by Phaleron
Bay (imp.). An interesting
member of the family, Serenata,
won the New Zealand Cup
(two miles) in record time.
May town, a winner of the
Queensland Guineas and also
of a number of sprints on Bris-
bane tracks, is proving a
successful sire in Queensland.
His winning-list was added to
at Albion Park when Good
Word, owned and trained by
A. Strong, won Saturday’s
Two-year-old Handicap on
protest. The filly is from an
unraced mare, Nick Name by
Balloch (imp.) from Lady
Nikotine by Satrap.
At the Valley
Although last Saturday's
Moonee Valley Pascoe Handi-
cap (a five-furlongs event for
two-year-old fillies) was in two
divisions there wasn’t a previous
winner in either heat,
add to racegoers’ difficulties
the track was soggy. The
25-to-l chance Throwley took
the first heat, and Lurex the
second. An Empyrqan-Rose-
stead filly, Throwley won by
no more than an inch or two
from Crinoline, with another
half-head to Rhexia. Young
Flemington apprentice Bobby
Nelson showed out well in the
tight finish, and later won on
Quitos. Lurex is owned by
clothing - manufacturers R.
Sackville and A. Brown (Sack-
ville was president of the St.
Kilda football-club, and his
colors are those of the
“Saints”). A Gold Nib-
Sunny’s Last filly, Lurex won
really well.
• • • •
As mentioned here recently,
American practice is to bracket
stablemates in a race on the
tote, and even though we have
bookmakers and tote in this
country, it should be possible
to adopt the same idea here.
The thought is prompted by
the success of Easterling in the
Barkoola Handicap at the
Valley. Easterling was a drift-
ing 9-to-l. chance, while his
stablemate, Royal Crown, was
a warm favorite at 11 to 8.
Easterling won easily, after he
and Royal Crown had gone
neck-and-neck to the turn. By
Ottoman from Kiyas, Easter-
ling is a good type, and his
five-lengths win should be the
forerunner of many more.
The 13-furlongs Mt.
Alexander Handicap went to
the five-year-old Belvedere
gelding Renounce, who liked
Saturday’s heavy going, and
won comfortably from By-
theist (a Westrahan). The
win completed a double for
the Phil Burke stable (Easter-
ling was the first leg), and
should aid the recovery of that
trainer, who is ill in Sydney.
Among the lesser-lights the
five-year-old Sans Tache mare
Quitos is one of Melbourne's
most consistent and versatile
performers—she has won a
long series of races on all
metropolitan courses over dis-
tances from six furlongs to a
mile-and-a-half. She is prob-
ably at her best over a mile,
and racing over that journey in
last Saturday’s Kinross Handi-
cap at the Valley she simply


Divorce Notice
IN- THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RICHARD JAMES MICHAEL STEEL
late of 90 Newcomen Street Newcastle in
the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that IRIS MAY STEEL has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3825 of
1952 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
4th February 1959 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
W. G. CANNINGTON & CO., Solicitors
for the Petitioner, of Beaumont Street
Hamilton, or from their Sydney Agents,
IRVING L. ADDISON & TATLOW,
Solicitors, of 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
J. DQUGHAN, Registrar.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/r
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept., NEW SUB. / RENEWAL
The Bulletin Newspaper, (Please cross out one)
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque [ money-order f0r. .....,
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
RECIPIENT: .
ADDRESS «... „
DONOR:
ADDRESS
GIFT SUBSCRIPTION: If the above is a Christmas gift
an appropriate Greetings-card will be sent direct to the
recipient announcing your gift and signed on your behalf.
SIGN CARD : ...... . .. .........
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year— £l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign; £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques
played with the opposition to
win as she liked. That was
only her second start this time
up, and she has shown in pre-
vious campaigns that once she
hits form, she holds it well.
Warrnambool trainer Kevin
Lafferty has a great meal-ticket
in Royal Stamp. Around his
home territory in the Western
District Lafferty has picked-up
no end of races with the Con-
fessor gelding, and on odd
visits to the city he has won
four races. Now an eight-
year-old, Royal Stamp took the
first heat of the Dunalister
Welter at the Valley although
racing first-up from a four-
months’ spell.
Before winning the Valley’s
Albion Handicap (10 furlongs)
Belle Vixen’s only previous
success was over five furlongs
last December, and she had
given the impression in subse-
quent races that she could not
get a middle-distance. How-
ever, she finished much better
than anything else to win the
Albion. Owner Doug Wheel-
house deserved the change of
luck. He owned Sandhurst,
who was the best two-year-old
in Australia last spring, but
who snapped a leg when he
resumed racing. Wheelhouse
also owns the dam of Belle
Vixen, Racefox, best known as
the dam of Fresh Boy, who ran
minor placings in both the
Caulfield and Melbourne Cups
in 1947. Racefox is now 22,
but she recently foaled again.
* * «
Trots
At Harold Park last Friday
night consstent pacer Sir
Raider broke by lfsec. the
record he established the
previous week by running the
13 furlongs and 98yds.
Harold Park Handicap in
3min. 39ysec. from the 12yds.
mark —his third win in a row ;
one more will put him in Cup-
class races. Favorite Noble
Western broke at the start,
which made the going too hard
with his 24yds. handicap.
Minor placegetter Worthy Carl
turned-in a promising display
for a long-shot (33 to 1), after
being seventh at the bell.
All three divisions of the
Qualifying Stakes were packed
with incidents. Twelve horses
—five in the first, two in the
second and five in the third —
broke or lost ground at the
start. Favorite Jaguar won
the opening division, but out-
siders Cheryl Ann and Main
Demon upset punters in the
other two.
Stewards suspended three
drivers for careless driving—
C. R. Elliott for two months,
and R. Martin and T. Coyle
for a month each. Driver
Laurie Moulds was rushed to
hospital after being thrown
from his gig rounding the
turn into the straight in the
Eastwood Handicap. The race
was won by Illawarra Ayr from
Hamish and Roxy Volo.
* * *
N.S.W. Tennis
The singles-final of the
N.S.W. titles was not an “all-
Australian” affair, as has
usually been the case in major
Australian tournaments in recent
years. Ashley Cooper, winner of
the title in 1957 and favored to
win again this year, duly did so,
easily defeating in the final 18-year-
old American Earl Buchholz 6-0,
6-1, 7-9, 6-2. Buchholz was no
match for Cooper, but during the
tournament showed enough to mark
himself out as a top-liner of the
future.
There was a fair sprinkling of
foreign nationalities represented in
the tournament, and two foreigners
reached the semi-finals —Buchholz,
who defeated Emerson in five sets,
and the Spaniard Gimeno, who was
beaten by Cooper in four sets. It
adds up to, perhaps, the beginning
of the end (for a time, anyway)
of Australian dominance of amateur
tennis.
The last foreigner to reach the
final of the N.S.W. singles was
Vic Seixas, who defeated Rose to
win the 1951 title. Actually the
local lads have been on top so
much that few foreign-born players
have reached the finals in any of
Australia’s major tourneys in recent
years,' Seixas being the last winner,
in the 1955 S.A. titles.
The doubles-final was again “all-
Australian,” Fraser and Anderson
defeating Cooper and Laver 5-7,
9-7‘, 6-4, 6-4, in a game played in
gusty, unpleasant conditions. In
1956, when paired for the first
time, Fraser and Anderson won
the Victorian doubles-title, and
impressed greatly; they were spoken
of then as a possible Davis Cup
combination. But, with Rosewall
soon afterwards turning profes-
sional, Fraser was paired with Hoad,
to win the ensuing 1957 Australian
doubles-title, in straight sets from
Anderson-Cooper.
For the Victorian titles, beginning
tomorrow the selectors have gone
back to the pairings for this years
Queensland and S.A. titles—Ander-
son and Laver (who won both
titles) and Cooper and Fraser
(runners-up each time). There seems
no very good reason, however, why
Anderson and Fraser weren’t kept
together.
The women’s singles was won by
South African Renee Schuurman,
who defeated N.S.W.’s Jan Lehane
in the final, 6-2, 4-6, 6-4. Jan
Lehane had been runner-up to the
Reynolds, U jn the"final of'’tbfs A.
singles.
The boys’ final was won by
promising Queenslander Ken
Fletcher, who defeated Martin
Mulligan, of N.S.W., in an even
game 9-7, 5-7, 6-4. These two in
time could help Australia keep—or
win back, if necessary its
supremacy m amateur tennis.
* . * v
,„... . A ..
In a flying visit to Australia,
Bntish racing-car driver
Stirling Moss in a Cooper FI,
(Melbourne) track last Sunday
to wm the 100-mde Melbourne
Grand Prix in r e co [d h me -
Sydney driver Jack Biabham
came second.
* * *
“Rossby”: On Coniston
Water (England) on Nov. 10,
in his jet hydroplane Bluebird
11, Donald Campbell set a new
world water-speed record of
248.62 m.p.h (average of two
243 41 mnh and 753 84
runs L, 7 1 , ‘ B4
m.p.h.). Actually he had gone
faster (260.1 m.p.h.) on one of
his runs when he had set the
. , r n ~
previous lecord of 239.07
m.p.h. on Coniston on Nov. 7
] ast year. His return run that
dav ifh .. __ tt : na lin
aa Y> With a swell getting up,
wa s only 218.02 m.p.h. Now
he’s aiming at 275 m.p.h.
* * *
ttc? „ c .
. Frangeo : For the first
time since its inception the
Canada Cup has been won by
Ireland whose representatives,
Harry Bradshaw and Christie
O’Connor, took it out by three
strokes from Spanish brothers
A c A/ r- r>, , „ „ ,
an f ue \ P^ a Y er an d
Henning (S. Africa) came third,
while Nagle and Phillips (Aus-
tralia) shared fourth possie with
„, „ *
Brown and Panton (Scotland).
Nagle and Phillips led after
the first round but dropped
the lead to America’s Ben
Hogan rMr Goir) and
Sammy Snead. Snead, un-
fortunately, had to retire be-
cause of a bad back which
meant that America was out of
d . Hogan stayed on hoping
w j n tbe i n<d jvi d ua.l trophy,
bu t finished well down the list.
The individual trophy was won
by Angel Miguel, of Spain,
who defeated Harry Brad-
shaw in a play-off after the
competition proper had ended.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. DUESBURY, Deputy
Chairman; ALFRED S. WHITE, A. G. PARKER.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing; Director. B. J. LANE, Manager.
’Phone; BIT 7401 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ASIA—GERMAN VIEW
'T'he views of Dr. Ludwig
Erhard, West German
Deputy Chancellor and Minister
for Economics, are generally
accorded such respect that his
comments on Asia, after visit-
ing India, Burma, Thailand,
Vietnam, Korea and Japan,
are of particular interest —his
recommendation of “simple
machines for small craftsmen”
instead of more grandiose
schemes is notably similar to
that of some Australian wel-
fare workers and others back
from Asia.
London “Economist’s” Tokyo
correspondent comments that
“Persons close to Dr. Erhard
say that he started on his
travels with a perfectly open
mind, but that, as he has gone
on his way, ‘his purse has
tended to snap shut.’ Dr.
Erhard is known to believe that
developed countries must help
underdeveloped ones (he
declared in Tokyo that ‘if Asia
falls, Europe will be im-
perilled’). But, from what he
has seen and heard on his tour,
he now also believes that Asian
countries are not doing as much
as they might to help them-
selves —and, further, that the
Americans, though generous,
are going about aid in entirely
the wrong way.
“On the latter point, the
German visitor has gone
around asking: ‘Are the masses
of the people being enlisted
for projects that they can see
—concretely, with their own
eyes—are for their own good?’
He thinks not. Too much aid-
money, he believes, is going into
projects that look impressive
but that are remote both from
the masses and from the day-
to-day affairs of the countries
they are supposed to benefit.
Instead of large plants, Dr.
Erhard would like to see greatly
improved agriculture, and what
he calls ‘simple machines for
small craftsmen.’ This, he
believes, would really generate
purchasing power, which he
holds to be the true key to
economic uplift.
“Korea especially, though not
solely, displeased Dr. Erhard
by having what he called ‘far
too much trading, and far too
little actual production.’ He is
said to have bluntly asked
N.Y. “Herald Tribune’
PARTIAL ECLIPSE.
the Koreans: ‘How can you
expect foreign investment,
when your own banks so
distrust your own businessmen
that they charge them four
per cent, a month on loans?’
His talk with Dr. Syngman
Rhee was, of course, private:
but it is understood that Dr.
Erhard found himself baffled
by Dr. Rhee’s continued in-
sistence on the need to ‘march
north,’ and his emphatic rejec-
tion of any possibility of peace-
ful reunification of Korea.
“In Japan, Dr. Erhard de-
clared his conviction that Japan
had a big part to play, eco-
nomically, in South-east Asia.
But he also dashed the hopes
of some Japanese, who had
been wondering if Germany
and Japan could not do a deal
about South-east Asian trade —
less competition and more co-
operation, in order jointly to
oppose Communist China’s
economic infiltration of the
area —by telling them frankly
that the South-east Asian
countries were still extremely
suspicious of Japan’s intentions
and that Japan would there-
fore have a hard row to hoe.
“Dr. Erhard has also dis-
concerted the Japanese greatly
by telling them that Japanese
exports, which he declared were
‘2O to 30 per cent.’ cheaper
than German goods, could not
expect much sympathetic con-
sideration as long as their
cheapness was based on
Japanese wages being far too
low. The Japanese industri-
alists were especially upset
because a demand that they
pay higher wages was the last
thing they had expected to hear
from so outspoken an advocate
of stern competition. They
retort that Japan has an adverse
trade-balance of some $B4
million with West Germany,
and that German wages are
nothing much to boast about,
either.
“Despite his censures, Dr.
Erhard is believed to have indi-
cated, privately, that he would
favor the opening of the
German purse for Asian
development, given such con-
ditions as better development-
projects and firmer guarantees
—against the subsequent
nationalisation of German in-
vestments, as well as for the
remittance of profits. In fact,
he indicated that he would like
to see the Germans putting
aside a definite percentage of
the national income for just
this purpose, for a period of
at least three years.”
U.K. Service Changes
“HP he great merit of the
[British] Grigg Committee
report on recruiting,” com-
ments London “News Chro-
nicle,” “is that its accent lies
as much on conditions of
service as on pay. The myth
that higher rates of pay can
alone bring in recruits must
now be discarded for ever.
This report approaches the
matter psychologically as well
as financially.”
Setting-out some of the
changes, London “Daily Tele-
graph” notes that “pay methods
are to be simplified, widows’
pensions improved, disturbance
and educational allowances
increased and expanded, and
uniforms improved for soldiers.
All this is under way.
“There are other measures
called for by Sir James Grigg
and his colleagues which have
not yet Mr. Sandys’s full weight
behind them. They are more
difficult and longer-term.
First, military equipment. ‘Out-
dated and grossly unsatisfac-
tory’ is strong language, but it
will raise a cheer from the
British Army of the Rhine.
The report confirms what the
Defence Minister’s critics have
long been saying, that good
equipment and realistic train-
ing would win recruits that
National Service experience
has been losing.
“Secondly, accommodation.
‘Scandalous’ is also strong
language, but it has been used
by Ministers themselves in this
context. It will need a long
time to mend the neglect of the
thrifty ’thirties, but the effort
should take priority in the
building-programme.
“Thirdly, discipline and
officer-selection. Sound and in


XL/
JHBP
m?
m-
m
'
C.B.C. services can • contribute
to your personal comfort and
help to provide freedom
from financial care.
The C.B.C. provides
a number of special
services to aid you and
to lighten your work.
M
A C.B.C. Savings Account is
the means by which many
customers build up funds to
make their leisure more
enjoyable.
if Tfftf'///
~T7i
suit
<& V
The
Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. Savings Bank Limited
(DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANY)
some places radical advice is
otfered to those in authority
who bring to their work neither
imagination nor respect for the
individual soldier’s personality.
Boredom is more of a problem
than ‘bull.’
“Perhaps the Grigg Com-
mittee will be best remembered
for its proposal, accepted by
the Government, that pay
should be reviewed every two
years in comparison with civilian
earnings. This should ensure
to those who serve not only
protection against inflation but
also participation in the in-
creased national product that
is to be expected in the future.”
Military Rulers
'The Army coup in Sudan
adds one more military
ruler (Lieut.-General Ibrahim
Abboud) to the steadily increas-
ing list in Asia, America and
Europe. At present they
include General Batista in
Cuba, General Trujillo in the
Dominican Republic, General
Stroessner in Paraguay, Colonel
Lemus in El Salvador, and
Admiral Larrazabal in Vene-
zuela. The U.S., of course, has
General Eisenhower, France
General de Gaulle, Spain
Generalissimo Franco, and
Yugoslavia Marshal Tito.
Colonel Nasser rules Egypt,
and the nominal head of the
Soviet is Marshal Voroshilov.
To the east there are General
Chehab in Lebanon, General
Kassem in Iraq, General Ayub
Khan in Pakistan, General Ne
Win in Burma, Marshal Sarit
in Thailand, and Generalissimo
Chiang Kai-shek in Formosa.
Commenting on this list,
“New York Times” writer C. L.
Sulzberger notes that
“obviously these men cannot in
any sense be considered in any
single category apart from the
fact that each was an active
officer when he was selected to
govern or seized power.
Franco is a Fascist; Tito a
Communist; N e Win a
Socialist. Trujillo and Batista
are dictators in the classical
mould. Eisenhower is an old-
fashioned democrat and de
Gaulle is a new-fashioned
democrat.”
After noting the inherent
American mistrust of military
politicians—and that “war
makes generals and generals
make war, but it is probably
also true that cold war makes
generals into politicians”—
Sulzberger concludes that it is
impossible to draw any con-
clusive deductions from what
is, however, a “global trend —
even in post-Stalinist Russia,
Khrushchev appeared suffi-
ciently worried to put the
Soviet Army’s acknowledged
leader, Zhukov, on the shelf.”
“In newly independent lands
military statesmen are ham-
pered by their own and their
nation’s administrative in-
experience. Ne Win, in Burma,
admits: ‘We don’t give our
young people employment.
That’s why they revolt’; and
Nasser, in Egypt, despite vast
prestige throughout the Arab
world, appears to be a prisoner
of the officers who produced
him.
“ ‘What is the meaning of
friendship?’ he once asked me.
‘For the Army it is equipment.
Our revolution was stimulated
in the Army. If our officers
feel we still have no equipment,
they will lose faith in the
Government. Throughout my
life I have had faith in
militarism.’
“Where does such philo-
sophy lead? Ultimately to-
ward dangerous adventures or
into stagnation. History has
shown that military juntas
cannot rule too long without
risk of intellectual sterility.”
Refugees
A mong other Middle East
problems are the 900,000
Arab refugees still homeless 10
years after the end of the war
which made Israel an inde-
pendent State. Two-thirds or
fewer of these, comments
“New York Times,” may have


KITC KING'S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
73 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
come out of Israel at the end
of the fighting ; nearly half are
under 16 years of age:
“During most of the pas?
decade these refugees have
been supported by the United
Nations Relief and Works
Agency, whose mandate will
expire on June 30, 1960. The
agency has never had enough
money. This year Acting-
Director Leslie J. Carver tells
the old story of much hard
work done with little money
and under great difficulties.
The so-called ‘host Govern-
ments’ have sometimes made it
hard to provide for the 225,000
in the Gaza Strip, the half-
million or so in Jordan, the
smaller contingents in Lebanon
and Syria. The cost to the
U.N. nations has been about
10 cents per head per day. Of
this, the United States has paid
about 70 per cent.
“Now the United States has
served notice, in a U.N. com-
mittee, that we don’t favor
the continuation of the
U.N.R.W.A. programme after
1960. ‘Some better system,’
said our spokesman, George M.
Harrison, ‘must be found.’
What is the better system? Mr.
Harrison did not seem to be
authorised to say.
“Some facts, however, are
clear. First, the tiny State of
Israel has no room for 900,000
Arab refugees, though it could
conceivably find the money to
help rehabilitate them on other
land. Second, the Arab States
do the refugee Arabs no good
if they perpetuate the refugee
system for political reasons.
Washington ( U.S.A .) “Post”
“YOU FELLOWS SERIOUS THIS TIME?”
Third, any general plan of
reconstruction and develop-
ment for the Middle East must
include an agreement between
Israel and the Arab nations as
to how these unhappy people
shall be given hope of a better
life in the future.”
Commenting on the refugee
problem in other parts
and on the U.N. General
Assembly’s adoption of a
British proposal to hold a
“world refugee year” beginning
next June, during which special
efforts will be made to raise
money and find homes for the
refugees who come under the
mandate of the U.N. High
Commissioner for Refugees—
London “Economist” points
out that “the sad fact that there
has to be an artificial stimulus
of this kind emphasises how
thoroughly minds have been
shut to the problem”:
“Emergencies, such as the
Hungarian rebellion, awaken
bursts of generosity, but these
die even before the new
refugees have all found homes.
Many have been left high and
dry in the countries that gave
them temporary sanctuary.
Although the forced movement
of peoples has become a regu-
lar phenomenon of our times,
each new exodus catches the
world unprepared. The High
Commissioner, Mr. Lindt, has
to beg and badger for funds
from a public that has never
recognised the illogic and the
inadequacy of extemporisation.
“The enormity of the prob-
lem is one reason why it is so
often shrugged off. Mr. Lindt
has now selected three prior
tasks, all of which could be
solved fairly easily and cheaply.
Fie wants to find homes for
more than 20,000 refugees (a
quarter of whom are children)
of families that have been
living in camps in Central
Europe since the end of World
War II; to settle the 6000
Hungarians who are still
stranded in Austrian camps;
and to move the 5000 ‘white’
Russians in China who have
the visas they need to emigrate
but have no money for the
fare.
“The solution to these prob-
lems alone would justify hold-
ing a refugee year. But since
the organisation and its plans
could at any time be over-
whelmed by a new flood of
refugees, it would surely be
sensible to set more ambitious
sights. Could not the chance
be taken to establish, both
financially and psychologically,
a more realistic approach to the
whole problem? If so, the year
might not only reach a peak
in fund-raising and migration ;
it might also lead to an
improved system under which
uprooted people no longer
have to rely on sporadic
generosity and ad-hoc efforts.”
Red China and U.N.
Suggesting an explanation of
at least one of the para-
doxes in Red China’s attacks
on the offshore islands of
Quemoy and Matsu, Stewart
Meacham, in a letter to “New
York Times,” relates the attacks
to the possibility of a ban on
nuclear weapons. “Last Aug.
23,” he points out, “only a
few days after the scientists in
Geneva agreed that a ban on
nuclear tests could be moni-
tored, the People’s Republic
.of China launched its massive
1958 bombardment of the off-
shore islands. On the face of
it there would not seem to
be any logical connection
between these two events, but
perhaps there is more than
meets the eye.”
Meacham, who was labor
adviser to the Commanding
General of the Armed Forces
in Korea in 1946-47, suggests
that “a universal ban on
nuclear tests would mean two
things so far as China is con-
cerned” :
“First, since such a ban
would require China’s full
co-operation it would bring
the People’s Republic of
China into the U.N. Second,
since no nation can develop
a full nuclear-weapons capa-
bility without conducting
nuclear tests, it would perma-
nently deprive the People’s
Republic of China of nuclear
weapons. Thus the prospect of
agreement among the nuclear
Powers of a ban upon tests puts
China in a dilemma. On the
one hand she wants the status
and prestige that go with U.N.
membership ; on the other
hand she wants the bomb.
“Mounting world-pressure
for a ban on nuclear tests is
slowly pushing open the door


Ruih 4M iJfIC
m
It is something for Australians to be able to
say that close to a million has been added in net
gain to our population by immigration since 1947,
and that seventy per cent, of these people have
come on free or assisted passages.
It is fine. too. to note that the Australian
birth-rate last year—with more than 220.000 births
—was the highest number ever recorded.
So the numbers steadily are building, both
naturally and by assimilation.
But I believe we have to face the realities of
this welcome trend, and be prepared to accept the
responsibilities as well as the rewards that are to
come out of this period of live national growth.
Australia's work force, for instance, is now a
round four million, and rising annually. The
number of brains and hands available to the national
effort is important. But it seems just as important
to me that we should be making the very most of
our human resources by the opportunities and
encouragement we provide for talent.
We talk of efficiency, productivity and the
other elements in national soundness. They are all
necessary. But basically it gets down to education
—and to the seeking out and guiding and fostering
of our best brains and our finest skills.
Education is costly. Governments and parents
are well aware of that. It will be more so in the
future, with calls going up every year for more
schools, and yet more liberal endowments and
scholarships to universities.
Yet it is one thing we cannot deny ourselves,
however great the price of its purchase may seem
to a country young in time and limited, as yet, in
its finances.
Many things may be bought in this world, but
talent of itself is not one of them.
What we can do. however, is to set ourselves
out to use to the best advantage the priceless fund
of it we have here among the young and increasing
stock of our Australian people.
// Y 6
7
of the U.N. to China, but
membership won on that issue
would mean that she could
never become a nuclear Power,
Her very admittance would be
incidental to a nuclear-testing
ban aimed at permanently
restricting the membership of
the nuclear-weapons club to the
United States, U.S.S.R. and
the United Kingdom. China's
problem, therefore, is how to
delay her membership in the
U.N. until after she has been
able to test a few bombs of her
own manufacture. The
problem is solved by the off-
shore bombardments.
“As long as she bangs away
at Quemoy-Matsu, which stiff
are in the hands of our
[America’s] ally Chiang Kai-
shek, we can be depended upon
to keep her out of the U.N.
As long as she is kept out of
the U.N. there will be no ban
on nuclear tests. As long as
there is no ban on nuclear tests
China is free to go full-steam
ahead in the development of
London “News Chronicle”
“COMIN’ FOR TO CARRY YOU HOME.”
her own nuclear weapons. She
already has a nuclear reactor
supplied by the U.S.S.R. It
is only a matter of time until
she will have scraped together
enough plutonium from it to
set-off the big bang.
“If this analysis is sound the
United States is on the receiv-
ing end of an extremely astute
bit of international ju-jutsu.
The more we huff and puff to
keep China out of the U.N. the
more we guarantee that she
will emerge a few years hence
as a full-fledged nuclear Power.
“Russia probably is well
aware of this, even if we are
not, and that may be the reason
why she is presently demand-
ing at Geneva that the United
States and Britain agree to
an immediate and uncondi-
tional termination of nuclear-
weapons tests. Today Russia
is the leading Power of a coali-
tion of Communist Powers
which includes China, but to-
morrow, unless the tests are
permanently halted, China may
be as strong as Russia and
able to challenge her for leader-
ship industrially and militarily
of the Communist world,
“Perhaps if we really under-
stood the situation we would
not be worried about whether
China can shoot her way into
the U.N., but whether she can
shoot her way into the nuclear-
bomb club. Whether this is
China's present conscious pur-
pose outsiders cannot know.
But that this will be the final
result if things continue the
way they are going is perfectly
clear.
“U.N. membership undoubt-
edly would add to the prestige
of the People’s Republic of
China. But it would also im-
pose obligations upon her
which she is now protected
from assuming, thanks to our
snail’s-pace approach to a ban
on nuclear tests and our
alliance with Chiang Kai-shek.”
The Earl of Home, Sec-
retary of State for Common-
wealth Relations : “The threat
from international Communism
based on Russian power
operating from central lines is
global. We have seen out-
breaks of aggression in
different parts of the world all
aimed at softening-up the weak
spots so that the whole struc-
ture of the defences of the free
world might be turned. In
Berlin, in Malaya, in Korea, in
the Middle East, in the Far
East, the pattern has been the
same.”


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY .TONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICKINS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances ol every Description.
J’ WILLIAMS. General Manager.
Circular Charts for all typ e >
of Recording Instrument*
tor any class of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Spat'a"!
ACCURACY GUARANTEED
O’SULLIVAN^
JAC
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
to watch. Presently the floor-
boards began to smoke as the
flames belched back under
them. We took them out, but
the heat was too much for the
driver’s feet. So we took the
front-doors off, and using the
hand-throttle on the steering-
column, it was possible to drive
with the left leg stretched well
over to one side and the right
hanging out on the running-
board.
The front-doors, incidentally,
we stacked on top of our gear
in the back, and they fell off
somewhere along the road —
Liz was making so much noise
that we didn't hear them go.
Thriving thus, and with Liz
roaring like a 16-ton semi-
trailer, we reached our first
stop—a port —in the early
evening.
We camped beside the car
overnight, and went abroad
looking for work the next
morning. Nothing doing for
a few days, and to make
matters worse, Liz took ill in
the diff. That was bad because,
although we had a little tucker,
we had no dough.
The owner of a boarding-
house where a casual acquain-
tance lived let us run the old
girl into his backyard —he
must have been a vintage-car-
lover, because, although he
accommodated Liz, he re-
gretted that we couldn’t camp
with her. We took to the sand-
hills at night and worked on
the diff. during the day. From
the number of missing teeth,
the crown-wheel looked as
though it had been in a fight.
Liz wasn’t quite vintage,
though you might say obsolete,
and the garages just didn’t
stock her style of crown-wheel,
even if we could have afforded
it. Then a friendly young
mechanic recalled having seen
the remains of an old Ford in
a paddock on the outskirts of
town. We came back with a
crown-wheel.
That was no sooner fixed
than Liz refused to start. We
discovered by accident, how-
ever, that if you shook her
hard enough while you
cranked, she would bark into
life. The sight of Bill sweating
on the crank while I jumped
up and down on the running-
board seemed to amuse the
locals so much that if we’d
had a mouth-organ and a hat
we could have taken up a
collection after each per-
formance.
We found the trouble
eventually a loose battery
connection.
IV/fTAN WHILE we got jobs.
IYJL There was a large struc-
ture going up on the wharves
for the bulk-handling of wheat,
and when we applied there the
boss told us a welder had fallen
and broken his arm, and a
rigger had gone to hospital
with appendicitis. He asked
me if I could weld, and I
answered truthfully, “A bit,”
untruthfully refraining from
mentioning how big the bit
was. Anyway, we started —
Bill as a rigger and I as a
welder.
1 had done a little welding,
but it had been at ground-level
and never perched high on
narrow girders waiting for a
crane to swing another girder
into position for welding. With
admirable com monsense,
whenever I felt wobbly 1
dropped both mask and hand-
piece, and clung to whatever
was closest.
The blokes underneath soon
learned to stay clear, and I
can’t repeat the foreman’s
description of my welding,
although poultryfarmers would
be familiar with the stuff.
The boss let us see the week
out on other work and paid
us off —it was generous of him,
really.
YXJe went up the sandhills for
** the night.
“The thing to do,” Bill said,
“is to go north—’way back
where there are no railways.
Somewhere where the mob
can’t get.”
We’d heard of a small gold-
mining town about 400 miles
to the north-east, and the story
was they were putting on men.
Next morning we pointed Liz
in that direction and gave her
her head.
A hundred miles or so
further on we passed over one
of those sheep-ramps used in-
stead of gates, and felt a bump
at the rear. We looked out to
port to see a tyre and rim
heading for the scrub at a
slightly faster bat than we
were. The hot, dry climate
had shrunken the spokes, and
they were scattered along be-
hind. We camped and rebuilt
the wheel, using a tomahawk
and bush timber to replace a
couple of broken spokes.
Tucker was low and so was
our dough, so we passed
through the next tpwn with-
out stopping. It was about 90
miles to our destination, and
we’d done about 45 of them
when Liz took sick again. True
to type, she was a guts on oil,
and, going by the noise, we'd
run a big-end. When we got
the cover off the sump there
was no doubt about it, but
it was too close to dark to
do anything.
The tuckerbox held one
small onion and about half-a-
cup of flour—not enough for
fried onions and damper. We
got the rifles and went off in
the scrub looking for anything
with fur or feathers.
All we could raise was one
small wood-pigeon, and in the
dusk it took us so long to get
a shot at it that we almost
had an affection for it by the
time we brought it down.
Plucked, the poor little
blighter was hardly as big as
the onion, but we boiled them
both and added, the flour. It
wouldn’t have done for the
Duke, sir, but we slept well
on it.
We rolled-out before day-
light, shot and grilled a rabbit
for breakfast, and turned to
the problem of the big-end.
The white-metal had run out
of it like butter. Bill was the
real mechanical expert, and
after fossicking around in our
personal possessions he found
a small photo-album with a
soft-leather cover. He cut a
long strip from it, wrapped it
tightly around the shaft and
bolted-up the big-end. Liz
survived the emergency opera-
tion very well, and was only
just beginning to bang again
when we reached our destina-
tion.
towns are good
” places. We headed straight
for the pub, struck-up with
three miners, and told them we
were looking for jobs.
They weren’t particularly
encouraging, but they staked
us at the mess and at the
tobacconist’s for smokes. Then,
knowing we’d never seen a
goldmine before, they
drummed us on what to say
when we fronted the shift-boss.
They gave us the names of a
few mines to quote when asked
where we’d worked before, and
they told us to say “bogging”
when asked what experience
we’d had. Later that night
they showed us how to manage
the carbide - lamps so that
we wouldn’t appear too
amateurish.
We lined-up on the pick-up
next morning at the mine—
there were about 100 men on
it, and most of them had got
there without cars. The shift-
boss and underground manager
walked pretty fast along the
ranks, picked a couple of men
and gave them a start —there
was no first-come first-served.
We were on the pick -up
every morning. The mine was
about a mile from the town,
and Liz soon had a full and
cheering complement for the
morning run —inside and out*
side and perched on th*
running-boards and front mud-
guards.
After about a fortnight the
shift-boss stopped in front of
Bill and me.
“Where’ve you worked?” he
asked.
We named some towns we’d
never seen.
“What’d you do?”
“Bogging,” we said.
He nodded, and we were on.
HPhen it was lamps from the
store, the steaming change-
room with some of the night-
shift already under the showers,
and then the shaft-mouth and
first time down in the cage.
There were two cages, one
up and one down, and we
thought disaster had overtaken
us when the rest of the blokes
in our cage suddenly started
shouting at the top of their
voices. In that instant, however,
an answering torrent of abuse
came back from the upward
cage as it passed us in the dark,
taking up more of the night-
shift. You also howl at the
men waiting on the plat at
each level as you go past, and
they yell back. A cheerful
custom rather like dogs


01’
Divorce Notice
LN T HE SUPREME COURT
TASMANIA— In Divorce,
to n™, **(>. 132 of 1950.
of No CARTHEW formerly
in Hip «t°f M ; n ® r str eet North Sydney
p respnf k a * e ,°f ew South Wales whose
NOTIOF H Jd " 89 J s unknown.—TAKE
in |£ E o ha * a Petition has been filed
tovm \p o° Urt endorBed "ith a notice
in the PM oai ' and answev the charges
Uwer w’ 0 " 0 * J °AN CARTHEW of
in" for ,r g \ n P asn * a nia Pensioner pray-
Kionnd of l a° ,U V° n of marriage on the
oi von, desert,on AND IN DEFAULT
allowed in gearing yon will not be
Court w b address the Court and the
Chari n oved roCe a d t 0 heai " tllC aa i<'
thereto Lorn ll Pronounce judgment
AXu absence notwithstanding
for the dSL PI ? THE ? NOTICE that
nuist be i.ff af ,°resaid an appearance
Registry at n,f r l d at the Principal
mania e . Supreme Court of Tas-
State of TaSi a n r, f St . reet Hobart in the
date o nnM? nia . Wlt hin 30 days of the
DATED this onVr 0f this notice.-
1058.—h n 3 rr da - v November.
Registrar." ‘ ®BB I E , Principal
Kodak
gifts say . . .
Open your Kodak gift first and
save all the fun of Christmas —and
the years to*come — in pictures.
IVNI*
m
n m
X 8
BROWNIE FLASH II
CAMERA OUTFIT
For picture taking anywhere,
anytime, day or night. There’s
a Brownie Flash II Camera,
Brownie Flasholder, flash-
bulbs, batteries, Kodak film
and full instructions.
An ideal gift. £5/10/-.
KODAK (AUSTRALASIA) PTY. LTD.
Branches in all States
KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
barking at each other and
we soon joined in.
We got out at tiie 400 ft-
. and lit our lamps in the
electric-light, yellow and
flickering through the steam
and smoke. A great pump was
punching thousands of gallons
of water to the surface.
Day-shift and the, last of
the night-shift swapped
notes about holes that had
missed, and so forth. We waited
for the shift-boss to arrive,
while the old hands selected
their steels and other tools,
dropped them into trucks and
disappeared up the darkness
of the drive.
'The shift-boss arrived, sent
Bill off with a big Swedish
miner and took me with him.
We turned into the north drive,
then right into a crosscut, then
No. 2 north, and presently
clambered up a ladder into a
stope.
The previous shift had fired-
out, and there was a mountain
of dirt in front of the face.
The shift-boss pointed to it.
“There it is,” he said.
‘There’s the shovel and there’s
the chute. Now bog.”
Full of youthful energy and
determination, I grabbed the
shovel and swung at the ore
The shovel hit a large hunk
of quartz and the shock ran
back to my shoulder.
The shift-boss was a nice
bloke I got to know him
well later. He showed me, and
1 ve never forgotten, or lost the
babit: blade of the shovel flat
on the ground, left hand well
down the shaft, handle in the
jight hand, push with the knee,
oft and throw.
There’s a perfect rhythm
fo it, and when you settle down
'ts not hard work even
though, in the first couple of
weeks, the mud on our pants
w ore the hairs off the backs
01 our hands, our palms
blistered, and we ducked off
into the shadows to follow the
old hands’ advice.
So life was good. We ate in
a large mess and slept in a
compound which consisted of
rows of two-man huts and a
couple of old bungalows. Four
of us shared a room in one of
the bungalows. Food was
plentiful, and you took your
crib from a great stack of sand-
wiches on a table in the mess —
as many as you liked. There
was a good pub, and an occa-
sional fight with no hard
feelings afterwards —a dice-
game in an old billiard-saloon,
and an s.p.-shop back of the
barber’s.
The cop, also a good bloke,
knocked the barber off every
now and again just for the
records, but no one stayed
away because of that. Rather,
in some vague, unspoken way,
it was considered a duty to the
cop and the barber to be there
when word went round—as it
generally did—that the place
was due to go off. Only
dingoes stayed away.
YX/eekends we went prospect-
"" ing without knowing much
about it. In Liz, of course. It
was also sheep-country, but
poor, so the fences were long
and the gates few and far
between.
The fences consisted of
widely spaced strainers, large
and solid, and between them
light stringers supporting the
wires but only resting on the
ground.
We didn’t keep to the tracks,
but simply took to the scrub
as we fancied. First time we
met a fence we drove along
it until we found a gate, but
it was a long way. Next time
we found that by leaning on
the fence about midway
between strainers we could
hold it down enough for Liz to
drive over.
Then we found that by
opening Liz up to her full 35
m.p.h. and charging at the
fences she knocked ’em flat
and passed over, leaving them
to spring back into position
again.
This was good until we in-
evitably met the fence that
wouldn’t lie down. TfTe
strainers on either side danced
like insane ninepins, and it
took us a long time to untangle
the tendrils of wire from the
wheels and other places.
Eventually we freed her, and
repaired the fence. The only
damage which couldn’t be
repaired was the radiator. We
couldn’t get a replacement, but
we managed to rustle-up the
radiator of an old Ford truck.
It was a couple of sizes too
large, but we got it on. the
result lifting the bonnet in front
by a couple of inches and
giving the old girl a roaring-to-
go new-look.
T noted earlier that gold-
A mining towns are good
places. The reason, of course,
is that goldminers generally are
good blokes, who take you as
they find you, without worry-
ing about who you are. what
you are, or where you come
from.
In fact, you can live among
a crowd of them for a long
time without knowing their
names. You might work with
Bluey, Centre Cut, Kingfish
and The Horse for months
without knowing the rest of
their handles.
I remember one day the lad
from the post-office came down
to the compound with a tele-
gram for Mr. Simpson. We
scratched our collective head,
but couldn’t place the name.
Then someone said: “Hang
on ; isn’t Yorkie’s name Simp-
son?” It was, and we’d been
working with Yorkie for
months.
Another good thing about
goldmining towns is the shift-
ing population—the coming
and going of blokes from the
Isa, the Hill, Kalgoorlie and
all points in between. They
bring gossip and news of mates
and working-conditions, and
sooner or later the talk makes
you restless, and you feel the
urge to snatch-it and see some
other place.
Bill and I were beginning to
feel like that we liked the
sound of Mount Isa —but then
Bill, who was working in a
100 ft. subsidiary shaft, caught
his little finger under a kibble
as. it came down. It was a good,
clean amputation. A week
later I had a similar accident,
but under the wheel of an ore-
truck.
We had a couple of weeks
off, trying hard not to think of
the hundred-odd-quid com-
pensation waiting for each of
us.
"We're in a rut.” Bill said.
1 agreed entirely. We sold
Liz for seven-quid, had a good
last night at the pub, and
caught the mail-truck out of
town to the nearest railhead.
"It was like ditching a
sheila, wasn't it?” Bill said.
"What?”
"Leaving Liz.”
It was, rather; but young
men are at once callous and
sentimental about cars and
girls, and there was money and
the whole wide world ahead of
us. Bill decided to go chicken-
larming, and I plumped for
fishing. Neither of us did. We
blued our dough quickly
enough, and drifted apart,
looking for work.
We were both about IS
then. These days I’ve a wife,
a home, a pot-gut, an over-
draft, and a son who won’t
believe that we had it tough
in the old days. And when I
see the young chaps being
lectured on obligations to em-
ployers, on responsibilities of
citizenship, and the general
virtues of taking life seriously,
I’m inclined to agree with him.
I’m sure Bill would.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
East and West
If we of the West were to
realise that we have no God-
given mandate to teach the
East how to live, it might help
the twain to meet. We are apt
to regard “progress” in under-
developed countries and India
as being synonymous with
“Westernisation.” That is non-
sense.
For generations our forebears
dominated the East, with no
thought for preparing the
people for independence. If
we find now that they do not
always behave as we hoped
they would, or think they
should, we have no grievance.
To cajole or impress
Orientals into sudden adop-
tion of social forms which it
took Europeans centuries to
develop would be to substitute
one sort of colonialism for
another. They will have none
of it. Of all those nations
which gained their liberty after
the war, India alone has
retained Western democratic
government. Politically, eco-
nomically and culturally, the
Afro-Asian communities will
travel their own diverse roads.
For our own good, we must
help them on their ways.
If we are wise, we will not
permit our aid to involve busy-
body interference. However,
we have the right to hope that
whatever roads Eastern peoples
take will lead forward and not
back into the jungle ; and we
have a right to demand that
the new liberties shall not be
misused, capriciously, to our
detriment. Insensate hatred
seems to be the motive behind
much Near East and Middle
East behavior. The world has
grown too small to hold that
sort of thing.
If the new nations are to
retain their liberty and fulfil
their destinies, they must,
among other things, stop flirt-
“I’m worried about Junior —he walks straight .”
ing with Communism and co-
operate with each other and
with the rest of the free world
in fighting it. A world-wide,
orderly pattern of peaceful
trade and commerce must be
built-up, and a co-ordinated
plan of defence in war.
Nationalism run mad must not
be allowed to spoil either.
There is one important
point: If the Afro-Asian free
nations are to co-operate with
each other and with the West
in anything, a few Western
politicians and editors, as well
as some Eastern oil sheiks, will
have to change their ideas and
tactics. — Carl Helmar (Q.).
Duelling
The two Italian fire-eaters
who challenged “Monty” to
duels —because of the Field-
Marshal’s disparagement of
the fighting qualities of the
Italian Army in North Africa
and elsewhere —were quite safe
in issuing their challenge.
For many years now, King’s
and Queen’s Regulations have
strictly debarred officers of the
British services from fighting
duels. This was pointed out
to an Italian swashbuckler who
challenged former British
Prime Minister Clement Attlee
to a duel after the Englishman
had criticised Mussolini.
Incidentally, it was a British
general, the Iron Duke, who
gave a severe blow to duelling
as a social custom. Wellington
fought only one duel in an age
of duelling. That was with
the Marquis of Winchelsea,
when the Duke was Prime
Minister. Winchelsea criticised
the stand taken by Wellington
on the Catholic Emancipation
issue, and accused the Duke
of having a secret understand-
ing with the Catholics.
Wellington issued a chal-
lenge, but in the ensuing meet-
ing each principal deliberately
missed his opponent. Welling-
ton’s second, Sir Henry (after-
wards Field-Marshal Viscount)
Hardinge, then sharply lectured
both duellists, not for taking
part in an “affair of honor,”
but for having so nearly
jeopardised a life that was still
valuable to England.
As a result of the duel,
Wellington was subjected to
much adverse criticism for
risking his life needlessly.
Among the critics was the
philosopher Jeremy Bentham,
who wrote the Duke a letter
beginning “ill - advised man,”
and reminding him of the con-
fusion into which the whole
fabric of Government would
have been thrown had he been
killed.
After that incident, the duel
in England was soon on the
way out. — Pip Tok (W.A.).
Insurance Anomaly
Describing fire - insurance
rates for timber and brick
residences as “completely
wrong and bogus,” Professor
Brian Lewis (Professor of
Architecture at the University
of Melbourne) has pointed out
that the owners of timber
houses are, in effect, subsidising
the ownership of brick houses.
The difference between the
fire-insurance premiums is, to
say the least, anomalous. In
Victoria fire-insurance on a
brick dwelling costs 2s. 3d. per
£lOO a year ; a timber dwelling
costs 7s. per £lOO. On the pro-
fessor’s figures there are twice
as many timber houses as there
are brick dwellings in Victoria,
indicating a strong public
preference for the former.
There may be some justifi-
cation for a differential rating;
but the average houseowner—
particularly if he has a timber
home—finds it hard to believe
that there is three times as
much danger of a timber house
burning down as there is of a
brick home suffering the same
fate.
In any case, the professor
said, either type of home could
be destroyed by a fire which
started inside the dwelling, as
most fires do. During the 1944
Beaumaris bushfires, he added,
of 83 seriously threatened
timber houses, 46 were
destroyed, but all 20 brick
Are You Neurotic?
Just what does it mean to be
neurotic? Is it an asset or a
liability? How can you tell if
you have a neurosis? Science
now has answers to such ques-
tions . . . here, in December
Reader’s Digest, are 6 ways to
overcome neurotic tendencies
and gain more satisfaction
out of life.
Don’t miss Are You Neurotic?
and 30 other lively, contro-
versial articles from the
world’s current reading in-
cluding Your Amazing Glands,
Words: Our Most Ancient Legacy
and How Much Should Your
Doctor Tell You? in December
Reader’s Digest.
On sale now wherever good
books are sold. 2/-.


NOW-BOOK IN AUSTRALIA FOR
BMC Daily
Transatlantic
LUXURY Monarch SERVICE
V
m
m
a
’
.
BOM
JEILIW
Q-
JM
De Luxe in every sense of the word, the BOAC
MONARCH service now offers the incomparable
luxury of smooth, almost noiseless “pure jet”
travel by Comet 4 Jetliner—together with the
sumptuousness of the world’s finest se_rvice-in-the-air!
Most tested airliner the world has ever known, the
Comet 4 is first and finest-by-far in jet travel—
with daily flights both ways between New York and London. And in this
magnificent jetliner on the exclusively de-Luxe MONARCH and First Class service
you enjoy impeccable cabin service, unsurpassed cuisine—with the finest vintage
wines and undreamed-of comfort.
With all this—as with the magnificent jet-prop Britannia operating on a vast net-
work of world routes — it costs no more to fly by BO AC.
And BOAC’s 39 years international flying experience makes all the difference, all
the way. Book in Australia now! See your Travel Agent for trip-planning help
—no charge!
Information and bookings from all leading Travel Agents, Qantas Empire Airways
Limited {BOAC General Agents for Australia).
World LeaderJn Jet Travel
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL, S.A.A. AND C.A.A.
A6/AU
houses menaced were burned
down. .
Unfortunately, the owner of
a timber house is not in a posi-
tion to bargain with insurance
companies. Apart from the
higher premium on the dwel-
ling, he pays a substantially
higher rate for insurance on
the contents than if he owned
a brick home.
What is needed is an
independent, Government -
sponsored inquiry into fire-
insurance rates on dwellings to
establish by actuarial evidence
the relative risks of fire-damage
to brick and timber homes.
Two-thirds of the State's home-
.owners, at any rate, would be
prepared to accept such an
inquiry’s findings as the basis
for assessing their future
insurance premiums.
Ardoyne (Vic.).
Orwell and Roy Campbell
“Des” (B. 12/11 /’58)~ put
himself at a disadvantage in
neglecting to read Roy Camp-
hell's Portugal. On the rele-
vant page (p. 30) Campbell,
though claiming to have
wounded his relative, Orwell,
does not claim to have wounded
him by night and in the Spanish
Civil War. So far as the page
goes, the wounding could have
taken place by accident in
the day-time, in Portugal or in
England, or out hunting to-
gether anywhere.
The bullet-wound mentioned
hy “Des,” and recorded in
Orwell's Homage to Catalonia
t'w a bullet-wound without a
doubt, since nowhere does
Campbell say that Orwell was
seriously wounded by him, or
in the neck. The argument
hom Orwell’s silence is worth-
less, especially if the wounding
didn’t happen in the Spanish
Civil War at all.
In any case, it’s all rot to
s®y tbat Campbell waited till
rvvell was dead before he
c him e d to have arrow-
'vounded him. The two were
relatives, and Campbell re-
jected Orwell for that love
truth which led Orwell to
wpose what the Communists
r! t 0 the >r anarchist fellow-
ighters when they determined
ake-over complete control
2 Catalonia. There is no
• ogation of Orwell expressed
0r implied.
‘ S lhe P assa § e boast-
is 8 ‘J at Cam P bell is doing
oranp^ ISIn “j the stren B th of
in<> S ,.’ WO(X i bows and record-
arrm,! he u - se of bows and
against th vfery Actively
2 *nst the Reds at San Mateo


and their consequent demorali-
sation and surrender. He is
not taking another shot at
George Orwell.
. Finally, Campbell had no
need to exaggerate his athletic
prowess. This was conspicuous,
especially till he was 30 or so,
and anyone who thinks him
guilty of drawing “the long-
bow,” ought to read or re-
read his autobiography, Light
on a Dark Horse. — Martin
Haley (Q.).
According to Roy Campbell,
his wounding of George Orwell
with an arrow in the Spanish
Civil War happened at San
Mateo, where Campbell’s unit
of the Spanish Legion was
facing a British battalion of
the International Brigade.
Campbell and a comrade,
Sergeant Jerry Mannin, slipped
into the enemy lines at night,
and shot their arrows in the
dark. Once Mannin nearly got
Campbell. Though Campbell
is not clear on the subject, it
was presumably when he and
Orwell, whom he described as
“my friend and kinsman,” were
talking over their Spanish-war
experiences that he discovered
he had wounded the latter.
Campbell thus related the
incident in his Portugal (p. 30):
What -made the Communist
International Brigade of English
Reds surrender at San Mateo (apart
from the Spanish Reds machine-
gunning them from the rear every
time they tried to run away, which
was pretty often!) was getting into
their trenches at night with double-
thick, short, orangewood bows,
speaking English, pretending to be
homosexual (most Englishmen fall
for that) and letting them have it
at point-blank range with barbless
and featherless arrows, short enough
to bury themselves entirely.' They
did not know (some of them don’t
to this day, though I told my rela-
tive, George Orwell) what was
happening, either to themselves or
their friends, who were falling dead
or wounded in the dark (without
any sound of fire). When I told
Orwell, whom I had previously
wounded, he recognised the cause of
the panic. They were scared to
surrender to the Spaniards, but
asked to surrender to the Italian
blackshirts, a unit more sissified (if
that were possible) than their own.
—CUNEDDA (N.S.W.).
TV
Shortly after its introduction,
Americans christened the TV-
camera “the! one - eyed
monster.” Here are some of
the reasons:
TV does little towards crea-
tive work. It is more like one
of those salvage companies
which live by other people’s
misfortunes in the way of fires
“Do they cook it or eat it raw ?”
and insolvencies. It has given
the makers of cinema-films
their heaviest blow to date—
and yet TV must have a stock
of old movie-films to use.
Its hypnotic effect on the
viewer makes it the most
“pulling” of all forms of adver-
tising, but it does not increase
business in any way. It merely
lives by transferring advertising
from the printed page to the
screen. A striking illustration
of this is the case of the
“Saturday Evening Post” which,
in the 231 years of its existence,
has resolutely refused to print
liquor advertisements, in spite
of the fact that, next to cos-
metics, they are the most profit-
able. But now the loss o£
revenue to TV has forced the
“Post” to surrender and it has
started to print full-page ads,
for whisky and beer.
TV has not produced a new
field for creative writers, but
it does want people who can
adapt the work of others, prac-
tically all of which first
appeared in print, to the very
narrow requirements of the
TV-show. But the position is
now so bad that the TV people
are at last becoming alarmed
at what they call “a sudden and
most disturbing shortage of
source-material.”
One of them describes what
they have been doing as similar
to taking coal and oil from the
earth —no new deposits are
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 515
Across
I—One1 —One who adorns furniture creekbed running a devious
course. (8)
s—Pinches5 —Pinches notches. (5)
B—Gore8 —Gore builds his constitution—in more ways than one. (4)
10—Come to earth before the morning fellow who presides
over the Swiss Diet? (9)
12 — Father first mentioned by a journal. (5)
13 — The most strait-laced term imps corrupted. (8)
14 — Neptunian Edward occupying the chair. (6)
15 — Fish-eater suburb of Melbourne. (8)
18 —Caveman would look undressed
without this suit. (4)
20—Faire translation pother. (2-2)
22 —Disadvantage for the glove-
bearer I don’t fit with gloves. (8)
26 — Fist may be so dispatched as to
have me laid silly. (6)
27 — Ward avoided by the superficial
shioker handicap. (8)
29 — The ego of Diana James in
Madrid and thereabouts. (5)
30 — Crescent curve with one mother-
less growth. (9)
32 — Coward when there is no electric-
light for Christmas. (4)
33 — The Israelites were glad to take
in this girl past 1000. (5)
34 — Draw of subnormal develop-
ment. (8)
Down
1 — Writer mentioning what the bats-
man hits to the square-cut inter-
ceptor. (9)
2 Immersing a colored ruler. (7)
3 Miracle arranged by one who
says it’s his. (7)
4 The ringless, roaring city of
Spain. (3)
5 Relative pronoun after a back-
ward writer ahead of the West. (6)
, 6 —Canberra murder is labor’s
enemy. (7)
7 —Darts up with a fiddle. (5)
9 —Grand National horseshoe for a
quadruped. (3)
11 —A lot of disorderliness in a city
of Italy. (7)
16 — A keynote commotion. (3) \
17 — Who puts-up with the French in
a German artist? (7)
18— In leaving China tea. (3)
19 — Italians terrified by this innings
by Weekes or Walcott. (5, 4)
might almost suggest
this picture-show doctor to one
blood-vessel. (5-2)
23 Intimidate and defeat an unruly
lock of hair. (7)
24 — A plain O registered by this
player. (7)
25 Two gentlemen here butchered an
over —but two players have their
parts to play. (6)
26 — Cuckoo-time coming before
noon, effeminate sir! (5)
28 —A splendid service honor. (3)
31—One pound investment of a
clergyman accomplished with
it. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 514.


A Christmas-gift to
Fascinate-
“THE LETTERS OF
RACHEL HENNING”
A "Bulletin" Bestseller
This charming and absorbing real-life story of
Australia ioo years ago, told in sparkling, gossipy prose
by Rachel Henning herself, has become a classic of
Australian biography in the short space of three years
since it was first published in book-form.
The Letters of Rachel Henning” read like a
lo niantic novel. If you have never read them there is
rea l flight in store for you. If you have read them you
will realise what a charming present they will make for
a friend. •
Not the smallest attraction of the book are the
4° exquisite pen-drawings by Norman Lindsay.
Copies of "The Letters of Rachel Henning" will be
sent, post-free, to any address in Australia upon receipt
0 s. 6d. (seven shillings and sixpence) by
THE bu LLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney,
branch offices in Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1812.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AH Classes Marine, Tire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON, Manager.
being formed and the day must
come when the supplies give-
out. Another leading TV-
executive has stated that it
looks as if they wiil soon have
to subsidise the publication o
periodicals which print original
fiction, as well as the little-
theatre groups which try-out
new plays, because there is no
other way to get new material
io ‘ IV ‘
Most significant was the
statement that some way must
be found for giving sponsors
less say in choice of pro-
grammes, because of their
refusal to try-out anything new
and their insistence on imita-
tions of shows which some-
body else has found to have a
wide appeal
Finally, these sponsors have
.heir own acute headache in the
orm of a simple gadget which
the viewer holds in the hand
and which, by touching a
button, cuts out all sound when
an advertisement comes on the
screen, leaving only a picture
of somebody jawing away
silently.— Archaen (S.A.).
Butter Subsidy
wj , h attraclive butter . su|>
stitutes competi on the
market> a |ow wor i d . pi . ice £or
da i ry products, and with many
medjca| men bannj anima J |
fats t 0 patients suffering hearl _
ailmenls it seems tha “ in in _
creasing Australia’s butter-
price the dairymen were at
least acting on very poor
advice.
Unless more Government
assistance is rendered to this
already heavily subsidised
industry, I think R. H. Francis
and . his organisation (B.
58) will be forced
to admit after 12 months’
,ra , d ‘"« a * **t e - new . P r ! ce
tor
this period will be considerably
lower than is usual,
Mr. Francis's opinion of the
efficiency of Australian secon-
dary industries would fall flat
if he took a look at the B.H.P.
"Tell me, Doctor, what ARE thermo-dynamics ?”
group and other secondaries
which are exporting in open
competition on the world’s
markets. The Australian sugar-
industry too, although pro-
tected by an embargo on the
home-market, sells more than
half its product overseas.
Except for a quota of sugar
sold to the U.K. on a
thoroughly checked cost-of-
production basis, it competes
elsewhere with the rest of the
world. In fact, for several
months last year the Australian
consumers of sugar were
receiving their supplies at less
than the current world-price.
These and other export indus-
tries are standing on their feet
because they pay the necessary
attention to remaining efficient.
Are all sections of the dairying
industry doing this? —Wu Foo
(Q).
School Uniforms
I know it’s unwise to argue
with a woman, but, “Old Girl”
(B. 19/11/’5B) notwithstanding,
the earliest recorded instance
of children wearing uniforms
does in fact date back to the
mid-to-late 14th century, and
these were exclusively waifs
and street-arabs rounded-up
and housed expressly for cor-
rection. Christ’s Hospital came
almost a century later.
Also, although of much later
date, the only uniformed or
otherwise marked children
around the industrial districts
or slums of Birmingham and
Manchester were orphans in
poor-schools, or poor-houses,
and inmates of reform-schools.
These children were conspicu-
ously clothed because of their
unholy behavior in groups or
gangs when at large. Similar
outlawry (and subsequent
harsh correction) occurred
among waifs and strays of
bombings in and around Berlin
immediately after Hitler’s war.
In short, I think the volumin-
ously recorded history of Eng-
land justifies my statement
that, during the Middle Ages,
a uniform was not by-and-
large a thing of pride for chil-
dren, especially the under-
privileged. Incidentally, the
charters of most of the Great
Public Schools of England
(besides Harrow) were origin-
ally granted by monarchs of
their respective periods of
inception only on the under-
standing that a stated number
of children of poor parents be
charitably numbered among
their pupil s. —P.O.M.C.
(N.S.W.).


SSai'
100 % Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHT’S
ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE • BARBED WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
.
raw
• > : x;.; ■•.-;■■■
rap®
gfe£ r .*- ;i--i>^Sopta*
X ~
• V ■*,_<*?_-*«
IWIM
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
LYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Piy.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt-
Five Dock
SPECIFY " LYSAG HT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
MECHANICAL MILKING
(From the Cow's Point of View)
By W. G. WHITTLESTONE
There are many faults to be
found in the modern milk-
ing-machine—often due to the
fact that designers have for-
gotten that the machine is
intended to act on an animal
Black disease is a
danger in late spring,
summer and early
autumn when sheep
pick up fluke from the
pasture. To prevent
trouble following if
the presence of fluke
is suspected two c.c.s
of black disease vac-
cine should be injected
under skin. Other
troubles which could
affect lambs at mark-
ing and tailing time
could be avoided by
using Elastrator
Rubber Rings rather
than a cutting instru-
ment. The rings carry
out the purpose for
which they are used
by atrophy action
which is bloodless.
When blood, which
attracts flies, 'is not
present the threat of
disease - infection is
considerably reduced.
and if she doesn’t co-operate
the machine won’t be effective.
In this article I want to talk
about the machine as I imagine
an experienced cow would talk
about it, if she had had an
elementary course in engineer-
ing .. .
The only part of the machine
a cow knows is the teat-cup
cluster. This consists of four
cups held together by rubber
tubes which are connected to
the “claw.”
Each cup has a case lined
with a rubber “inflation,” the
inside of which connects to the
milk-tube of the claw. The
cup-cases connect through
separate tubes to the“pulsator”-
tubes of the claw. The inside
vacuum of the cups is more-or-
less constant (except on
“vacuum-break” machines); it
tends to fall while the cow is
milking on a releaser-machine,
but not on a bucket-machine,
and towards the end of milk-
ing it rises again.
The vacuum in the pulsator-
lines rises and falls regularly,
.controlled by a special valve
called a “pulsator.” When the
cup case is at vacuum, the
liner or inflation relaxes and
lets the milk flow freely ; when
the pulsator-valve lets the
vacuum drop to atmospheric
pressure, the inside vacuum
causes the liners to collapse,
and so to squeeze the teats.
This chokes the flow of milk.
The ratio of the squeeze to
the release is the “pulsator-
ratio.” A short squeeze means
faster milking, but may be un-
comfortable. A constant
vacuum on the teats hurts ; it
makes the bloodvessels swell,
and the teats become con-
gested.
By squeezing the teats from
time to time this swelling is
prevented, but a very short
squeeze may not be enough.
On the other hand, if the
squeeze is too long it slows-up
the milking and the cups have
to be left on too long, which
is also bad. So we need a
compromise.
From the point of view of
comfort, which includes
reasonable milking-rates so
that the cups don’t stay on too
long, about 25 per cent, of
the time should be squeeze
and 75 per cent, release. Except
with certain automatic pul-
sators the speed is not critical.
If it is too fast, air is wasted,
which tends to make the
vacuum unstable ; if it is too
slow, the cups tend to fall off
with fast-milking cows.
A good rate is about 40 pul-
sations a minute.
The important thing is that
rate and ratio are both
steady and the same from one
bail to the next. There is noth-
ing more disturbing to a cow
than to feel different actions at
the cups each time she comes
in to be milked. It is much
better from the cow’s point
of view if she can go to any
bail in the shed. This means
that all bails should feel the
same.
The pulsator-action is the
most obvious characteristic of
the machine. The speed and
ratio are at once evident, and
changes are quickly detected,
Some cows are also sensitive
to the rate of squeeze. A very
“snappy” squeeze irritates
some cows, probably because
of the structure of their teats,
It is a good idea to use a pul-
sator which gives a fairly
gentle squeeze and suits every-
body in the cowshed.. If,
Another factor which is
immediately obvious to a cow
as soon as the cups are put oa
is the level of vacuum. If the
vacuum is too high, the cups
hurt; they rise up on the teats
and cause a pinching of the
delicate tissue where the teat
joins the udder. On the other
hand, if the vacuum is too low,
milking is slow and the cups
have to stay on too long. A
vacuum of about 15in. is right.
But it must be stable.
An unstable vacuum is very
disturbing. If a cow is milW
quickly, and * the machine-
vacuum is varying, there is a
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
Wool Type Card. This Card
has many uses—as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered —in particular when
snap classification has to he
made in the yards or shed,
or in the paddock, with a
type, perhaps, outside the
main run of your experience,
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing.
A comparison study, using
the Bradford Wool Type
Card, eliminates the possi-
bility of error. Your name
and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to
“The Bulletin” will send one
on its way.


watch his eyes
LIGHT UP
when you give him a
r&>
this Christmas
Barling Briar Pipes are cut from rare roots of
great age. Only the finest grains are selected.
There is no “breaking in” and, to ensure free
draught, only the finest vulcanite . is bored.
Give him a Barling—he'll be delighted.
Obtainable from all Leading
Tobacconists
Trade enquiries: Box 502, G.P.0., Sydney.
i
■■■
mm
m
chance of the cups slipping.
Often a farmer will kick a cow
if her cups fall. This means
that if the cups are slipping
the cow becomes very upset.
To an onlooker it is hard to
understand why a particular
cow seems nervous until the
cups fall right off. A cow
feels a bit like a public speaker
whose underpants have
slipped; the effect is not
obvious to the onlooker, but it
is only too evident to 4 the
victim.
There are several reasons
for an unstable vacuum. One
of them, a common one, is that
the vacuum-pump is ineffi-
cient. The vacuum-pump is a
gadget which pushes air out of
a pipe into the atmosphere.
Two vanes scoop up the air and
push it out, and the faster the
pump rotates, the more air
flows. However, running a
pump too fast makes it ineffi-
cient.
There are several sizes of
vacuum-pump. The right size,
running at the right speed,
should be used. This, though,
is not a guarantee of enough
air. The right oil must be
used and applied to the pump
at every milking. If the pump
is old and worn, it may be
speeded-up. An air-flow meter
is used by efficient servicemen
to check this. By using such a
meter a serviceman can tell
the state of the pump and
where any leaks may be in the
machine. He can then deter-
mine whether the pump must
be speeded-up, repaired or
replaced.
If the pump is right, the
most important factor in giving
a stable vacuum is the vacuum-
regulator. The only types of
regulator which are any good
are the dead-weight types with
compensat on for air-flow.
A good regulator not only
stabilises the vacuum but saves
rnr. Compared with the spring-
b'Pe valve a good regulator
Will save about 20 per cent,
m the air on an ordinary plant
real saving in electric-
power. -
The regulator should be
regularly cleaned and tested.
his is another job the service-
man can do with an air-flow
meter.
Some farmers think that a
u 'g Vacuum-tank gives them a
t , re * en ' e °f vacuum.” Cows
have been milked by
chines with very big
acuum-tanki know that this is
not true.
r( J? hat . farmers often don’t
f 0 ls l^ ls: On a typical
chano°u V f P ant the CU P S are
milkin' F° Ur times durin fT the
each cow. The care-
less farmer lets a lot of air in
as he changes the cups, and
this causes a fall in vacuum
because of this, the cups
tend to fall at least three times
after they have been put on.
Now, a big tank takes longer
to come back to full vacuum,
while the vacuum falls just
about as quickly with a big
tank as a small one (this is
because the air flows in quickly,
but comes out only at the rate
the pump can push it). So
when the tank is big the
vacuum tends to be lower, on
the average, than when the tank
is small. The tank should be
only big enough to collect the
cleaning-liquid—no bigger.
Apart from vacuum as a
disturbing factor, there are the
pulsators. These should be
kept in good mechanical order.
The air-flow meter may be used
for testing for leaks. The
ratio should also be tested.
This requires the use of a
recording vacuum-gauge, which
makes it possible to “see” the
vacuum that is applied at the
cups, and so to adjust the
valves to give the right squeeze-
release ratio, etc.
Every year the pulsators
should be tested. The farmer
himself should clean the valves
and oil them slightly once a
week.
Sometimes the releaser does
not get the milk away fast
enough, so causing surges in
the vacuum, which are very
uncomfortable, and which can
cause the cups to fall. This can
be tested with a recording-
gauge, and the releaser-pul-
sator set correctly to a snappy
50-50 ratio.
The rate may also have to be
adjusted. Such a job can only
be done by a serviceman. The
farmer, however, can inspect
releaser-flaps, etc., and make
quite sure there are no leaks
that wilt make the releaser
flood. The releaser is a
common cause of plant in-
stability, and should be tested
once a year.
Mean farmers often use
rubberware which is perished
and has holes in it. It is not
uncommon to find claw-tubes
with cracks through them.
When this happens in the milk-
tubes the vacuum fluctuates at
the cups and much milk-froth
is formed in the releaser. If
the leaks are in the pulsator-
tubes the action at the cups is
upset. A leak may cause the
cups to stay partly squeezing
all the time. This causes slow
milking, and makes the machine
very uncomfortable for the cow
who may not let her milk
down properly. Rubber should
be changed as soon as cracks
develop. To give it longer life
it should be cleaned regularly
with a good detergent.
If the farmer will follow the
advice given in the above
summary he will find that the
cows will be more contented
and will milk-out faster. The
time spent will be more than
saved in faster milking and in
the production of more milk.
Pcxssionfruit
“Billjim”: Though of tropi-
cal origin, passionfruit will
grow well in most parts of
southern Australia where
there’s well-drained soil, irriga-
tion or a fair summer-rainfall
and little risk of. frost.
The vines should bear a good
crop in their second season
and come to full bearing three
or four years after being
planted-out. An average life
of eight to 10 years can be
expected, though some plant-
ings may last longer, especially
if pruned hard when crops
begin to decline.
Planting on a slope or hill-
top reduces frost-risk and helps
drainage, while a belt of trees
or a bag or hessian fence will
give protection from prevailing
winds. •
Thorough preparation of the
ground is essential. If humus
is not naturally present in the
soil, the ideal is to plant a
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(20/ 11 /’58)
Good general rains are indicated for a large part of
Queensland during December, although rainfall may be
patchy in the far-west areas. The heaviest rains are indi-
cated in southern Queensland, with likelihood of flooding in
the Burnett, Darling Downs, Maranoa and Warrego districts.
Heavy rains and flooding may occur in February and March.
N.S.W. is likely to receive general rains during
December, with heaviest falls on the North Coast and the
northern tablelands and north-west areas. Rainfall may be
patchy in January, apart from moderate to good rains on the
coast and tablelands and n.-w. slopes and plains areas.
Good general rains are likely in February.
Victoria should have general rain in December, with
heaviest falls in the east-central and north-east districts.
Good rains should continue in southern Victoria during
January, but with likelihood of flooding in the southern
rivers. Rainfall may be patchy in the northern areas, with
heavy general rains in February.
South Australia should have gSpod general rains in
December, with moderate rain in the agricultural areas
during January. However, rainfall is likely to be poor in the
interior.
Fairly heavy rains are indicated in the Kimberleys of
Western Australia during December, with good rains in the
Eucla, south-east and part of the s.w. agricultural areas.
Apart from light to moderate rain in the Kimberleys during
January, poor rainfall seems probable in the balance of the
State.
LENNOX WALKER.


IX L
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS •
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
green crop the year before. If
this isn’t possible, plough the
land, cultivate deeply and
dress with fowl-manure or
some other bulky organic
manure or leaf-mould, working
it in during the autumn. Keep
thoroughly clear of weeds.
Before planting, set-up the
trellis to support the vines in
rows 12ft. apart, with three
wires at 6ft., 4ft. and 2ft. from
the ground. An alternative is
welded wiremesh sheep-fencing.
Rows should fun in a north-
easterly direction, so that the
sun will fall on both sides of
the row during the morning.
This encourages bees to work
on each side and ensures an
even set of fruit.
Give a dressing of fowl-
manure on planting, or work-in
about £lb. of 2:2:1 per plant,
taking care that the fertiliser
does not come into direct con-
tact with the new plant’s roots.
Plants should be set 12ft. to
18ft. apart —that is, 202 to 303
plants an acre. Unless the
soil is wet, the plants should
be watered-in. The only prun-
ing necessary is removal of any
sideshoots less , than 6in. from
the ground. Shallow but
thorough cultivation should be
given, with care not to damage
the roots. For the first two
winters cover with gum-
boughs or bags to guard
against frost.
Heavy dressings of manure
or up to 31b. of 2:2:1 or 41b.
to 51b. of blood-and-bone per
plant should be worked-in
during autumn and winter.
Growth and cropping will be
helped by dressings of sulphate
of ammonia, given in early
summer and kept from direct
contact with the plants. Water-
ing will almost certainly be
necessary in the first summer.
If irrigation is used, furrow or
pipe-irrigation is better than
overhead sprinklers, which
encourage brown-spot.
For the best flavor, pick the
fruit only after it has started
to color. During summer
months, harvesting should be
completed by mid-morning
because the fruit wilts on the
vine during hot weather.
Pittman Technique
Thank you for publishing
my telegraphed invitation (B.
12/11/ ’5B) to correspondent
R. James and readers generally
to visit the Departmental Field
Day at the Haunted Hills, Moe
(Vic.), on November 15. Per-
haps a description of the field-
day and its background might
interest readers.
To recapitulate: the Pittman
technique is a method of estab-
lishing clover on poorer acid
soils. It consists of the drilling-
in during autumn, in tight,
rather widely spaced bands or
ribbons, of a well-matured
50-50 lime-super, mixture with
heavily inoculated seed, Minor
elements or particular local
deficiencies are subsequently
applied as a topdressing in the
following spring.
This method has been suc-
cessfully used, with and with-
out recognition of its author-
ship, in parts of Victoria and
N.S.W., as well as elsewhere.
It might, I feel, be used with
great advantage on much of
the remaining undeveloped
higher-rainfall areas Esper-
ance (W.A.), for example. The
technique did not receive
departmental approval for
many years, and my experi-
ment at the Haunted Hills was
organised with the aim of
determining once and for all
whether it had the merit
claimed for it.
The experiment was made
possible by Sir Herbert Hy-
land, leader of the Victorian
Country party, at the request
of some of his local farmer-
constituents. When Sir Herbett
had satisfied himself by inquiry
that the Pittman technique
seemed to have considerable
value, he was able to persuade
the State Electricity Commis-
sion and the Department of
Agriculture to give the method
a large-scale trial.
The bush surrounding the
S.E.C. undertakings in the
Latrobe Valley is a constant
bushfire menace, yet attempts
at clearing and sowing-down
pasture-land as a huge firebreak
had not so far been successful.
As a result of Sir Herbert’s
negotiations, a particularly
poor stretch of country south
of the road at the Haunted Hills
was advertised by the S.E.C.
for lease by tender. The suc-
cessful tenderer was required
to sow this down under direc-
tion from the Department of
Agriculture, with Mr. Pittman
made available as supervisor.
Fifty acres were to be sown-
down forthwith and the
department was to select
separately two acres to carry
out a large number of plot-
trials. I was the successful (1
believe the only) tenderer.
Sowing-down of the area
and the several hundred plots
was completed by June 20, and
the purpose of the field-day on
November 15 was to evaluate
the results to date.
In my own view, and I think
in the opinion of the depart-
mental officers and the 300-odd
spectators, the results consti-
tuted a full endorsement of
the Pittman technique for
pasture-establishment on acid
soils. The plot-trials con-
firmed the impression of on-
lookers, who were standing
outside the fence in the lush
pasture of the Pittman paddock.
The Pittman technique was
shown to be the best method
by far for growth of pasture
and economy of establishment,
at any rate for this type of soil.
It can safely be said that
there is no longer any doubt
about the value and authorship
of the Pittman method of
pasture-establishment. But its
real value to the nation will not
be appreciated until this 50-50
lime-super, mixture is sold at
the correct price by the
fertiliser-companies. The cost
of all other mixed fertilisers
corresponds almost exactly to
the total cost of the separate
ingredients. With lime-super,
this is far from the case, and the
50-50 Pittman mixture, which
one would expect to cost about
£8 a ton, costs at present
£11 7s.—that is, within 18s. 2
ton of straight super;
K. G. SCHOEFFEI-


mm
v.
mm '' , ' i -' mm
%
GYPROCK for better
seamless walls
Tlie finest surface for walls and ceilings for a timber-
framed or brick veneer home, for offices and factories,
is Gyprock—the easy-to-handle plaster wallboard that
goes up fast and clean.
Gyprock is available in a wide range of large
economical sheets. The new 4ft. 6in. width covers a
9ft. high wall with two sheets laid horizontally.
Why not use the best for your building project?
Just contact your nearest C.S.R. Showroom. They’ll
be pleased to give you full advice and costs of
supplying and fixing Gyprock.
GYPROCK
PLASTER WALLBOARD
Manufactured by CONCORD PLASTER MILLS
Marketed by THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
. Building Materials Division
ovrooms at Sydney, Newcastle, Wagga, Wollongong, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Townsville, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
CSR7I
Summer Fodder Crops
“North”: “Big Billy’s” seed-
ing-rates for dry seasons (B.
5/11/’5B) seem inconsistent.
Land cannot be expected to
grow as much fodder during
dry times; therefore, sowing-
rates must be lower than in
normal seasons.
He recommends ljrlb. to 21b.
an acre for chou moellier, but
this is the amount usually
sown under normal conditions.
In comparison, seeding turnips
at Boz. to lOoz. an acre is
ridiculous, when this crop is
usually sown at about 21b. to
31b. The same criticisms apply
to his advice about rape being
sown at lib. to lylb. (normally
41b. to 61b.) and millet (pre-
sumably Japanese) at 81b. to
101 b. an acre, which is the
normal rate.
There are several factors
governing the rates of seeding.
Locality, type of land, fertility
and rainfall all come into it,
while the distance between the
drills makes a difference in the
amount of seed needed to the
acre. On Queensland’s Darling
Downs, with their unreliable
rainfall, the lesser of the
normal quantities recom-
mended is generally sown, even
though the land is very
fertile.
When in doubt, make the
seeding-rate for dry seasons
about 75 per cent, of the
normal amount, and you won’t
be far out.
_ . _ .
Poultry bCience
Congress
“Spin”: At the 11th World
Poultry Science Congress, this
year in Mexico, it was decided
to hold the 12th Congress in
Australia in 1962. Russia and
Israel were also nominated for
the honor, but the voting was
overwhelmingly in favor of
Australia,
That’s fair enough, too,
because in membership of this
association Australia ranks
second to the U.K. and in front
of the U.S.
Anyone in any way con-
cerned with poultry—produc-
tion, research, extension,
marketing, etc. —can join the
W.P.S.A., and its quarterly
publications alone are worth
30-bob-a-year membership-fee.
Record Cattle-sale
“Bilwon”: Though 1957 and
1958 have been two of the
worst years Queensland cattle-
“Tinkit they no spearum fella longa moon this time”
men have known for a long
time, record prices were paid
for good-quality stock at the
annual Santa Gertrudis bull-
sale.
This was held at King
Ranch, Risdon (Q-), and
39,000gn5. changed hands in
less than two hours.
Top price was paid by an
American, Randolph Galt,
who recently settled near
Jerilderie (N.S.W.). He bought
Risdon Deacon, possibly one
of the best bulls ever paraded
in the Risdon sale-ring, and
topped the previous record of
3000gns. set at last year’s sale.
The Santa Gertrudis breed
is now established in Queens-
land and has proved its adapta-
bility over a wide range of
climate. Ticks seem to do it
less damage than they do most
breeds. It can hold its own
in a drought, and seems also
to have the happy knack of
laying-on beef on those parts
of the carcass where it pays
best. Given a reasonable
season, this helps a cattleman
with an average herd to bump-
up his beef-output.
After the bulls had been
auctioned, 10 second-cross
Santa Gertrudis heifers were
sold for an average of 935gns.
each. These prices for bulls
and heifers are claimed to be
an Australian record for any
breed.
Why Blame Our
Wheat?
“Wimra”: The traditional
complaint that Wimmera wheat
has too low a gluten-content
to make good bread (B.
12/11 /’5B) had never greatly
impressed Dolph Schurmann,
director of a Horsham (Vic.)
flourmill.
When he heard the state-
ment authoritatively repeated
and confirmed by the experts
at that recent conference of the
cereal-chemistry group of the
Royal Australian Chemical
Institute, his answer was to get
a nearby baker to make a
couple of loaves from an
f.-a.-q. sample of flour locally
milled from Wimmera wheat.
At the end of the confer-
ence he produced his loaves
and invited the assembled
baking-technologists to sample
the bread. Only when all had
agreed that they had not seen
or tasted better bread did he
tell them that it was made
from that despised, unsuitable-
for-breadmaking wheat grown
in the Wimmera.


CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
{England)
R.S.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
cJreauire
island
Wje have a few
LIMITED
EDITION
COPIES
Signed and Numbered
Beautifully illustrated
with ten plates in full
colour by
Australian Artist,
William Bustard
Bound in Fine
Leather and Titled
in Gold
at
£5/5/.
each, post free
a
DE-LUXE
EDITION
Bound Full Cloth
at
£2/2/-
each, post free
As a “Gift” to Son,
Grandson or Nephew
a life-lasting
memento
From all Prominent
Booksellers or Direct
from
JACKSON &
O’SULLIVAN
Pty. Ltd.
304 QUEEN STREET
BRISBANE : 2 2461
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copy of Story of the Twelfth, by
L. M. Newton —a story of the 12th
Battalion in War I. —6769.
Copy of The Dreaming Shore, by
Olivia Manning. —6770.
Information Sought
Is there a library prepared to lend
Latvian, German and Russian books
through the mails ?
Foreign-language books are lent
by the Country Reference Section,
Public Library of N.S.W., Sydney,
but they are not supplied to indivi-
duals living in a city with a library
of its own. To obtain them you
must apply, in your case, to the
City Library, Bathurst; the
librarians there will get them for
you from Sydney, and a list of
books available will be supplied
on application. The books are
usually free of any charge except
return-railage to Sydney, which must
be paid by the borrower. For
direct information, write to the
Principal Librarian, Country Refer-
ence Section, Public Library of
N.S.W., Sydney; books are railed
to people in the country in N.S.W.
who cannot reach a library. Three
books at a time are lent for a.
month, and a further month if
applied for.
* * * *
Did a Menzies Government intro-
duce child-endowment in Australia ?
Yes, the "Federal scheme of child-
endowment" was passed in April,
1941, by the Menzies Government
of 1939-41. It provided, with cer-
tain conditions, for the payment of
ss. a week for all children under
16 in excess of one child in each
family. However, there were earlier
child-endowment schemes in Aus-
tralia. On April 11, 1927, an Act
was assented to in the N.S.W.
Parliament providing for a basic
wage for man and wife, and for
the payment of ss. a week for each
dependent child. A system of child-
endowment had even earlier (Nov.,
1920) been instituted withia the
Federal public service.
• * * *
A polish suitable for treating a
copper kettle to prevent tarnishing ?
There is really no suitable polish
for such a purpose; in the case
of a copper kettle in daily use
see that it is thoroughly cleaned
and polished weekly and wiped
whenever wet. However, if it’s a
kettle which is kept as an ornament
it can be treated in the following
way: Clean and polish well and
apply a thin coat of shellac. This
keeps the moisture and air from the
metal, so it will not tarnish as
quickly, although in time it cracks
and peels. When this happens the
surface should be washed with
warm, soapy water, dried, repolished
and relacquered. Should the lac-
quered surface become dull it can
be polished with a very little
furniture - cream. This treatment
would be of no avail if the kettle
is in use; the heat would crack
and chip the lacquer the first time
it was used.
* * » *
How much sugarcane is grown
in India ?
India produces more sugarcane
than any single country in the world,
producing in 1956-57 approximately
68-million tons from about 5-million
acres. White sugar is refined
from gur and khandsari; molasses
and alcohol are by-products. For
comparison, here are regional
figures of sugarcane production in
1956-57. Australia’s production in
that year was approximately
9-million tons from 370,000 acres.
In each region production is given
in .000 tons: Europe, 460; North
America, 14,430; Latin America,
174,200; Near East. 4400; Far
East, 125,800; Africa, 16,760, and
Oceania (mainly Australia), 10,130.
* * * *
Biographical details of Spencer
Browne ?
Born at Oaklands, near Sydney,
on July 13, 1856, he was educated
at Appin (N.S.W.) and in England.
He took-up journalism and at the
age of 21 was editing a newspaper
at Townsville (Q.). Four years later
he went to Brisbane to edit the
“Observer,” and in 1883 he joined
the staff of the “Courier.” He went
to the Boer War as a major with
the First Contingent, and was
created C.B. in 1900. Soon after
his return to Australia he became
commander of Light Horse regi-
ments in Queensland. In World
War I he commanded an infantry
brigade at Gallipoli, and later had
charge of Australian training in
Egypt. After the war he retired
from active military service with
the rank of major-general.
As a boy Browne knew Kendall
and Adam Lindsay Gordon; as a
young man he was the friend of
Louis Becke and Brunton Stephens
and the mentor of George Essex
Evans. He also was a friend of
Thomas Hardy, the English novelist
and poet. From the early 1880’s
onward he knew almost every
notable religious, political, military,
musical and literary figure in Aus-
tralia. As a young man he pub-
lished two small volumes of verse,
and in later years wrote A Jour-
nalist's Memories (1927). He died
on November 9, 1943.
* * * *
Method of preparing lime-
mortar ?
The proportions are two or three
parts of sand to one part lime. In
practice the measuring is done only
roughly, and sand is added if the
mixture appears too rich, while the
actual gauging depends upon the
nature of the sand. Very fine sand
should be dodged, as it makes a
compact lime-mortar which prevents
the air from penetrating. This
results in the mortar on the inside
of the wall being reduced eventually
to a dry powder with no cementing
value. In the mixing process a
heap of rock-lime is placed in the
centre of a ring of sand; water is
sprayed on to the lime until it is
saturated. The lime at once begins
to hydrate, and in doing so generates
heat. As the slaking takes place
the sand and lime are mixed
together. The heap, when thor-
oughly mixed, is covered with sand,
protected and left to “season” to
complete the slaking of any hard
lumps of lime. The “seasoning”
may take from a few hours to
several days, time depending on the
quality and variety of lime used.
Before the mixture is used water
must be added.
* * * *
(1) In recharging a battery what
actually takes place ? (2) What has
to be done to get it recharged ?
(1) In a charged condition the
active materials of a battery consist
of lead-peroxide on the positive
plate and sponge-lead on the nega-
tive plate. The electrolyte is a mix-
ture of sulphuric-acid and water,
the strength of which is measured in
terms of specific gravity. In a
fully charged battery all the active
material both of the positive and
negative plates is porous; it has
absorption qualities, similar to a
sponge, and the pores are therefore
filled with some of the battery solu-
tion. As the battery discharges,
the acid which is in the pores of
the plates separates from the elec-
trolyte, forming a chemical com-
bination with the active material
and converting it to lead-sulphate.
As the discharge continues, addi-
tional acid is drawn from the elec-
trolyte into the pores of the plates
and more sulphate is formed. As
this process continues, the specific
gravity of the electrolyte gradually
decreases because the proportion of
the acid is decreasing. When the
plates are entirely sulphated, current
will stop flowing, since both plates
are then identical material and any
active electric-cell requires two dis-
similar plates in electrolyte.
(2) To recharge a battery it's
common practice to apply current
to the' battery from an external
source, i.e., a battery-charger or
generator, producing direct, not
alternating, current. Flow of this
external current will force the acid
back into the electrolyte and return
the active and negative plates to
their original form.
Brief Answers
C.W.: If you know that somo
of your wealthy antecedents left
money you might write to Somerset
House, The Strand, London, men-
tioning their names G.R.: The
pensioner may have property (apart
from his home, furniture and per-
sonal effects) to the amount of
£209 and receive a full pension
unless there is a deduction being
made on account of income. Pen-
sion is reduced by £1 for every
complete £lO above £2OO up to
£1750... .“Nemo”: No death-
duty... .M.F.: No, you cannot


Public Notice
IN THE COMMONWEALTH CON-
CILIATION AND ARBITRATION
Tnn COMMISSION.
IUE PASTORAL industry award
Tn , (1956) FEDERAL.
PERSONS AND ORGANISA-
TIONS BOUND BY THE ABOVE-
MENTIONED AWARD.
that an application dated
i* Oa.v of November, 1958, lias
n n ed in the said Commission bv the
Wau" Workers’ Union and will be
rililr “ e l° re the Commonwealth Con-
no* rlu a i,? nd Arbitration Commission at
a ioil ! P Street. Sydney, on Thursday,
100 n 1S^3 ( l a .' r of December, 1958, at
a n. The application seeks to
cmnV, rates °f P a - V anf l conditions of
in Prescribed thereunder and
nav , cu , r by increasing the rates of
Dltu-rno ~a ß ering the conditions of em-
S e A; en t 111 the following clauses of
and w (other than Station Hands)
6 q 100 3 (General Application), 3,
2i 00 13 1 0 14 ’ 15 , 16, 17, 18, 19, 20,
33[ 35’ H' 24, 26 ’ 27 ’ 28 ’ 2i) - 3U ’ 31 ’
47 33 > 37. 38, 39, 41, 42, 44, 45.
the lit A?’. 79, to correspond with
195 a tf v . G a ’- ms forwarded in April,
Persons^n paW .registered post to all
Pastoral or S a: »sations bound by the
T,°V ndust ry Award, 1956.
The rv . - v A ward. 19ob.
Persons iT m - lssion has dispensed with
individml '" lc , e tlie application on
this advt>rf- rap o^6ls al| d bas authorised
such send C e lSement ilr substitution for
v »iation °i the , sa 'd application for
Principal *tu y - • be inspected at, the
or any District
hour* „ sail * Commission between
Mondays to ph , a ' m '■ ar ! d 4 ' 30 P' m:
t rS\T^)?^ ays mclusive.
General Seert.? GGHERTY ’ Applicant,
Secretary Australian Workers’
Union.
• DONOVAN, Commissioner.
Divorce Notice
TO JAMES DELMEGE formerly of 34
Eric Street Cottesloe W.A. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife BERYL
LILLIAN DELMEGE lias filed in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia a
Defence to your action for Divorce and
a Counter-claim for Divorce on the
grounds of (a) your adultery, and (b)
your habitual drunkenness for four years
or more, and during that period being
guilty of habitual cruelty to her Un-
less within twenty-one days from the
date of this publication you file in the
Central Office of the said Court at Perth
your Reply and Defence to Counter-
claim the action may be entered by your
said wife for trial and the Court will
pronounce Judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. —DATED
this 18th day of November, 1958. —G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar.
jackson McDonald connor &
AMBROSE, Solicitors, of 55 St. George’s
Terrace, Perth.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to *
G. A. FISHER, li.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
garnishee a pension H.G.8.:
The mere signing of a confession
between the guilty parties is not
sufficient evidence. There must be
some evidence other than the con-
fession, such as evidence of the
association of the people one with
the other. Signing a confession does
pot affect the rights of either party
in respect of the child. Only the
court has the right to say who
shall have custody of the child; the
fact that the mother has committed
adultery js not necessarily a bar to
her obtaining custody. If you wish
to start proceedings you should see
your solicitor or apply to the court
in Sydney for legal assistance. Time
taken for divorces to come into the
list varies considerably with the
circumstances, but unless it is done
at very high pressure indeed it is
never under six months... .L.M.:
Some centres are exempt from sales-
tax, particularly Government depart-
ments and similar institutions under
the shield of the Government such
as the Education Department, Uni-
versity, Technical Colleges, etc.
H.G.: Information not yet
available, but should be forthcoming
in the near future... .A. 0.: (1)
Sometimes, persons who wish to
apply for an old-age pension must
spend a certain amount of their
money before they can receive a full
pension. The Department of Social
Services requires that they should
spend their money in a reasonable
manner for their own maintenance,
and reckless and unreasonable
spending is regarded as a bar to a
pension. If a person has spent
recklessly, the length of time that
must elapse is entirely a matter for
the department. (2) No. (3) income
for the purpose of calculating an
age-pension does not include an
allowance from a pensioner’s chil-
dren. (4) The maximum bank-
balance that an applicant for a full
pension can retain is £209. The same
rules apply in all States... .J.J.8.:
Not quite sure what you mean. Is
the pension a full pension? If what
you say is true, there ought to have
been a fall in the percentage of
reduction, not a rise... ,X.X.: Diffi-
cult to give other than generalised
information, because of the many
vagaries associated with particular
receiving locations, quality of recep-
tion being very much dependent on
such things as location-height, local
terrain and obstructions, type and
height of antenna, receiver-sensi-
tivity and, to a certain extent,
atmospheric conditions. Regular
satisfactory reception of transmis-
sions is being achieved in New-
castle; points as far north as Port
Macquarie are getting good recep-
tion during most evenings, although
quality and duration of reception in
these more distant locations are
extremely inconsistent and un-
reliable X.X.: Information' can
be had from the respective breed
societies. For details of Hereford
and Poll Hereford cattle, get in
touch with the secretaries of their
societies at 179 Mary Street, Bris-
bane, Q. For Shorthorns and Poll
Shorthorns, contact the secretaries
of their societies at P.O. Box 4317,
G.P.0., Sydney.
THE HOLLIDAYS
By MIDDY
“With a voice like that , he's wasting his talents running a gondola."
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
R.C.P.: “I fancy ‘Spring Winds’
would be more appreciated at this
time with the heat around the
century.” Well, it is a little damp-
ing... D.H.H.: We get too many
ruined houses and can only be
interested now if the ghosts bite
you J.G.: At least you can’t
be accused of saying too much.
Mike S.: Here are the choicer
portions of
P.T.M.: Well may you apolo-
gise to Browning A.M.: It has
punch but remarkably little
punctuation... .N.K.C.: Pleasing
enough; but, as you say, it’s
been done bef o r e... . R.8.L.:
Election-poem informal... .P.L.:
It would be pleasing from a
child; too slight from an adult.
. ...D.J.T.: “Where Me and the
Missus Met” should be kept in the
sacred privacy of the home....
1.K.: There are moments....
T.M.: Must they all bellow and
drop their final consonants?
THE BUSHMAN’S KANGAROO.
Tlie day was hot out in the scrub
Walking along the track ;
I saw something ahead of me ,
Sprawled out on its back.
This is queer, I said to myself,
Not knowing what to do;
Slowly I crept up to the thing
And found a kangaroo ....
As I was sitting in my tent
I had a thought one night,
I'll buy a pair of boxing-gloves
And teach him how to fight.
The ’roo was keen and so was I
When lessons did begin ;
He’d lay into that punching-bag
Ami make a mighty din.
The time had come to test him out
And earn some easy dough;
I bought myself a cattle-truck
And set out for the Show.
When midday came I stopped the
truck
To feed the kangaroo,
But when I did, he knocked me out
And then away he flew.


W omen's Letters
MELBOURNE
More than 400 guests were received
by the Chancellor of the University, Mr.
Justice Dean, and Mrs. Dean at an at-
home at Union House. The hostess wore
a frock of white silk patterned in a pink,
white and green flower-design with a
white-silk draped beret. Also present with
their husbands were the daughters of
the host and hostess, Mrs. lan Tulloch
and Mrs. Max Whiteside. Assisting in
receiving the guests was the acting Vice-
Chancellor, Prof. Sir Arthur Amies.
Guests included Lady Amies ; the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress, Cr. F. W.
Thomas and Mrs. Thomas (her slim
frock and long mandarin-coat in tones
of steel-grey and mignonette-green);
Judge Gamble and his wife (the latter’s
lovely hat being of fine white straw and
trimmed with large pale-yellow roses);
Judge and Mrs. R. Monahan ; Judge and
Mrs. Stretton ; Mr. Justice Barry and
Mrs. Barry ; Sir Charles and Lady Lowe ;
the Archbishop of Melbourne, Dr. Frank
Woods, and Mrs. Woods ; Sir Edmund
and Lady Herring ; Sir Henry and Lady
Winnecke; Judge and Mrs. Mitchell;
the Moderator of the Presbyterian
Church, Rt. Rev. N. Faichney; the
Master of Queen’s College, Dr. Raynor
C. Johnson, and Mrs. Johnson ; Professor
Keith Macartney; and Professor R.
Downing.
V #
Bowls of scarlet gladioli, white carna-
tions and . cornflowers decorated the
official table, with the red-white-and-blue
motif repeated on the edge of the white
cloth, when the Australian-American
Association held its Thanksgiving Day
luncheon at the Royale Ballroom. The
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, who gave
a short address, was received by
association-president Sir John Latham
and Lady Latham.
Others at the official table included the
Premier, Mr. Henry Bolte; the Chief
Justice of Victoria, Sir Edmund Herring,
and Lady Herring; Mr. Harold Holt,
M.H.R.; Sir Arthur and Lady Warner ;
and U.S. Consul-General Graham Hall
and Mrs. Hall The newly elected vice-
president of the women’s group of the
association, Lady Storey, was attractive
in a white-silk frock patterned in black ;
her daughter Judy chose a powder-blue
linen frock-and-jacket ensemble, the
jacket lined with paisley-silk in matching
tones.
Others at the luncheon were Lady
McConnan (her daughter, Mrs. Hamilton
Moreton, with her children, will come
from Sydney for a visit shortly after
Christmas); Mrs. T. Wallace Mitchell
and her youngest son, Hugh; Lady
Wackett; Mr. and Mrs. Angus Jones;
Mr. and Mrs. W. K. Burnside (they leave
on December 22 to spend Christmas with
their son-in-law and daughter, Mr. and
Mrs. David Raeburn Brown, at Broad-
leaf, Rosewood, N.S.W.); Lady Scherger ;
Mrs. R. R. Willock ; Alma Figuerola (a
visitor from Boston, U.S.A.); and Mr.
Wallace Plummer.
Margaret, only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. K. G. Begg, of Rannoch, Portsea,
marries this week John Robinson, of
Keith (S.A.), at St. John’s Church,
Toorak. An “old girl” of Clyde,
Margaret has worked with the Wool Ball
committee, which aids the Ramsay
Mailer Opportunity Clubs for Boys and
Girls. John, a grazier, has his property
at Keith, where the young couple will
make their home. He is the son of Mr.
and Mrs. L. B. Robinson, of Hampshire,
who flew from England to be present at
the wedding. John Warlow photo.
The last reception of the year given
by the committee of the subscribers to
the Victorian Symphony Orchestra was
at Majella, St. Kilda Road, guests-of-
honor being conductor Kurt Woess and
’cellist Edmund Kurtz. The decorations
included a novelty in the form of a
large ’cello worked in red roses by Mrs.
Reg Taylor, who, with her husband,
was a guest. Mr. and Mrs. Kurtz leave
shortly to spend Christmas with their
sons in Switzerland. Mrs. Guy Bakewell
(committee-president) and Miss Leline
Cairns Lloyd (hon. secretary) received
the guests, among whom were Mr. and
Mrs. Frank Menzies, Dr. and Mrs. Ivan
Maxwell, Mr. and Mrs. H. L. Yuncken
and Dr. and Mrs. John O’Donoghue.
ft ☆ ☆
There was a delightful air of infor-
mality about the reception given at the
Town Hall by the Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress, Cr. and Mrs. F. W.
Thomas, to principals and members of
the corps de ballet of the Royal Ballet
company. There were no speeches, and
animated chatter filled the reception-
room, which was decorated with bowls
of huge, colorful lupins. A slim frock of
silver-grey silk patterned with clusters of
violets was worn by Mrs. Thomas, who
was hatless. A wig-cap of tiny candy-
pink flowers topped the smart frock worn
by ballerina Rowena Jackson, who was
with husband Philip Chatfield. Very
smart was the bone-beige silk trapeze-
line coat-frock chosen by Anna Heaton;
it was contrasted with a red rose tucked
into the front neckline, and her tiny cap
was of white rosebuds. She was with
her husband, John Field. Those in the
gay throng included Dr. and Mrs. J. R.
Darling and their daughters Jane and
Elizabeth. Sir Frank and Lady Tait were
there ; also Sir Harold and Lady Gengoult
Smith and their daughter Marion, Lieut.
Christopher Chamberlen, Mr. and Mrs.
Tom Carlyon, Crs. Douglas Cox and
R. H. Solly, and the Misses Eileen and
Jennie Brennan.
•to ☆
The Yooralla School for Crippled
Children Appeal will benefit from the
premiere of “The Happiest Millionaire,”
staged at the Little Theatre, South Yarra,
In the audience were Mr. Maurice
Askanasy, Q.C. (chairman of the appeal),
Dame Mary Daly (president of the
women’s group of the appeal), Lady
Murdoch (wearing junior-blue silk coin-
spotted in white), Mrs. A. G. Silk (her
choice a short, black silk frock patterned
in large pink roses), Mrs. Leo Curtis
(wearing a short frock of beige lace),
Mrs. Maurice Nathan (in swathed frock
of black silk-jersey), Mr. and Mrs. George
Laurens, Mr. M. Ress, Mrs. Constance
Day (whose 15-year-old daughter Deanna
was in the cast), Mr. and Mrs. Alec
Finlay, and ticket-secretaries Mrs. Leo
Guest and Mi'S. Graham Nathan.
CANBERRA
Many inter-State visitors were among
the gay throng at the Hotel Canberra
when the Associated Chambers of Manu-
facturers entertained delegates (in Can-
berra for the chambers’ annual meeting)
at a buffet-dinner reception. Guests were
welcomed by the Federal president, Mr.
A. M. Simpson, and Mrs. Simpson, of
Adelaide ; she chose a frock in apple-
green taffeta. They were assisted by
director Mr. R. W. C. Anderson and his
wife, whose attractive slim-skirted frock
in deep-cream taffeta was patterned with
smoky-green roses and worn with a smal
flowered hat.
Lovely arrangements of pink carnations
and blue delphiniums decorated the
dinner-tables, which were massed with
glazed hams and cleverly decorated
turkeys. Sir Leslie and Lady Melvin®)
just back from overseas, were among the
guests, who included many heads °


diplomatic missions. Visitors noted at
the party were Mr. and Mrs. J. M.
Burnett, from Sydney; Mr. and Mrs.
J. C. Harkness, of Victoria ; Mr. and
Mrs. J. G. Hurley, Sydney ; Mr. and Mrs.
W. G. Gerard and Mr. and Mrs. A. E.
Harvey came from Adelaide ; Mrs. John
Kelly and Mrs. P. Carney, from Mel-
bourne.
The delegates’ wives, who had a full
social programme during their stay, were
earlier entertained at afternoon-tea by
Shrimati Menon, wife of the High Com-
missioner for India.*
SYDNEY
December 3, and the city streets and
shops are filling with golden stars and
tinselled Christmas - trees, and Father
Christmas is punching the bundy in stores
all over town. In the suburbs the cicadas
are shrilling insistently from every tree,
and schoolboys are dealing in Black
Princes, Greengrocers, Double Drum-
mers, Yellow Mondays and Whisky-
drinkers.
Around the Harbor the iittle, fringed,
white bells of the blueberry-ash are
beginning to fall (they will be replaced
by blue berries in a few weeks); the
flannel-flowers and fringed violets are
out in clusters ; and the first flush of
red is creeping over the Christmas-bush,
which promises to be particularly good
this year despite a dry November with
barely half-an-inch of rain instead of
the usual average of nearly three inches.
It is also the time when the old, mauve*
grey bark of the applegums (angophoras)
begins to peel away and the fresh salmon-
colored bark shows in vivid patches
through the greenery of the Harborside.
It is the time, too, as we were taught
a long, long time ago, when
Children who at Christmas have cake and
currant buns
ought to look around a bit and find those
other ones.
We were teminded of this on several
occasions last week, particularly at the
Sunshine Home for children, which, set
about with magnolia trees, looks from its
'antage-point at Gore Hill across the
Lane Cove River and the Parramatta
kiver beyond. Last week, on behalf of the
American Women’s Club, Mrs. H. L.
Aimstrong (who has not seen her Cali-
ornian home for six years) and Mrs.
k- C. Mansfield (of Michigan) presented
Dey, the superintendent of
oe home, with a cheque for £2OO.
* n acknowledging the gift, the chair-
man of the board of trustees, Dr. A.
istrn Morgan, referred to the good
v °fk of the American Women’s Club
an many others in providing funds to
j lri j e w .dh the work of caring for
Mat e< J ucat l n B these “forever children.”
'tnu who conducted a
home, explained that the
a- | , ren m ake their own beds, wash
anH an L d shadows, and bath themselves
anH cu- • lr own hair for that scrubbed
____uiing look, which also reflects the
devoted work of those who are carrying
on Lorna Hodgkinson's dream of pro-
viding spiritual sunshine for these less
fortunate ones.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was children again at the 28th
annual meeting of the N.S.W. Society
for Crippled Children at the Trocadero.
One of the prettiest hats noticed was
the “wig” of small pink carnations worn
by Mrs. F. Hennessy, whose five-year-
old daughter, Moira, is the “cover-girl”
on the society's 1957-58 annual report.
After the president of the society, Sir
Kenneth Coles, presented the report, its
adoption was seconded by the Lord
Mayor, Alderman H. Jensen, who, on
behalf of the citizens of Sydney, con-
gratulated “all those responsible for their
constant application to the work they
have undertaken in this field, which is
one of the noble works in this city.”
Among the many people to whom
afternoon-tea was served at tables set
out on the dance-floor were Miss
Margaret Crawford, Mrs. Frank
Edmonds, Mrs. A. Aldritt, Mrs. M.
Brockhoff, Mrs. M. Muscio, and Mrs.
Sydney Lennon, of Rose Bay, who leaves
shortly for a Christmas holiday which will
take-in Hong Kong, Japan, Manila and
Bangkok.
Patricia Saunders, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. C. L. C. Saunders, of Bellevue Hill,
celebrated her 21st birthday at a party
held at the home of her uncle and aunt,
Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Emmerson, at Bay
View. The garden and trees twinkled
with fairylights, and the young people
enjoyed the evening very much. Patricia’s
gift from her parents was a mink cape
stole. Photo from Norton-Trevaire.
Thursday was Opera House day in
Sydney, with the State Opera Company’s
Christmas cocktail-party at the Rural
Bank presided over by Lady Heinze,
wearing the Italian look in rose-printed
silks and tapered shoes and cutting what
many guests claimed was the first
Christmas-cake of the season. The many
flowered hats (among which Mrs. C. R.
McKerihan’s marguerites were outstand-
ing) rivalled those seen earlier in the
afternoon in the Town Hall vestibule
nodding to the operatic programme
arranged by the president (the Lady
Mayoress) and the members of the
Ladies’ Committee of the Sydney Opera
House Appeal Fund. An attractive
feature of the concert was the children's
play staged by Miss Doris Fitton, par-
ticularly the Christmas-card scene when
the angel and star of Bethlehem appeared
over the masses of white Christmas-lilies
arranged by the C.W.A.
☆☆ . ☆
A forthcoming marriage of interest is
that of Robert Vasey to Mary Carson,
which will take place at the Presbyterian
Church, Glen Innes, on December 6.
Robert is the second son of the late
Major-General G. A. Vasey and Mrs.
Vasey, who is so well-known for the
work she has done as president of the
War Widows’ Guild. Mary is the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. D. Carson
of The Downs, Glen Innes.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was Hilaire Belloc who said “All
that this world knows of living lies in
giving and more giving,” and that seemed
to be what Monsignor A. R. E. Thomas,
director for the Propagation of the Faith
in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of
Sydney, had in mind when he said that
the only way to eradicate Sydney’s
selfishness was for people to start talk-
ing generosity and acting it. Monsignor
Thomas was speaking at the blessing
the laying of the foundation-stone of
the Marillac Centre for the aged in
Yurong Street by Cardinal Gilroy and
Lord Mayor Alderman Jensen. The
centre is named, of course, after St.
Louise de Marillac, co-founder with St.
Vincent de Paul of the Community of
Daughters of Charity, whose costume —
that of the women of Normandy, with
large white sunbonnet and grey-blue
dress —is familiar all over the world.
☆ ☆ ☆
Possibly Sydney is a “selfish” city;
possibly, as in the case of O. Henry's
little tramp, it is not always easy to
find the “soul” of a city, yet last week
seemed to be full of giving. At the
annual meeting of the Royal Prince
Alfred Hospital, for instance, chairman
of directors Sir Herbert Schlink paid
tribute to the honorary services of 200
doctors, the board of directors, a large
army of auxiliary workers and the many
generous benefactors who help to save
voluntary hospitals from “going up King
Street.”
Sir Herbert also told the meeting of
a bequest of £30,000 to the hospital from
Miss Edith West, the last of a family
of Wests who originally came from
England in the 1880’s, who has made
over the accumulated family estates to
the R.P.A. because it saved her mother's
life 73 years ago. Miss West has been
appointed an honorary life-governor of
the hospital.


Wild, Wicked, Woolly
The opening paragraph of Cyril
Pearl’s Wild Men of Sydney (W. H.
Allen) postulates the thought that
“colorful villains never fail to
fascinate.” They certainly never fail
to fascinate Cyril Pearl, even to the
point at which he sees villains in
every gutter. Even primitive Methodists
sometimes turn-up in his pages as the
worst of men.
He remarks: —-
Someone will one day write the
full history of Australian roguery
from the racketeers of the First
Fleet to the racketeers of the
Second World War, from land-
swindlers to mine-swindlers, from
William Charles Wentworth to
Claude de Bernales. The dramatis
personae will be well assorted —red-
coated English officers and wide-
hatted scholars . . .
This quotation in itself might almost
constitute a review of its author’s work,
since it illustrates how far, probably
quite unwittingly, he subordinates cool
accuracy of presentation to zest for
unrobing wickedness.
To lump William Charles Wentworth
with Claude de Bernales is rather rough
on William Charles, and to put him
in a group which includes John Norton,
W. P. Crick, W. N. Willis and Meagher
of Dean Case fame, whose stories he
uses as “selected case-histories,” is
rougher still.
In painting the “turbulent era in
Australian social and political life,”
Pearl seems to believe that the Aus-
tralia of 1899-1910 was bounded on
one side by Foveaux Street, Surry
Hills, and on the other by the worst
purlieus of the Rocks, with some out-
lying islands of naughtiness or obscenity
in Carlton (Vic.) and Little Lon. and
nearby suburbs. He sees Sydney as a
“dirty, tough, intimate, turbulent hard-
drinking, immature city.” But actually
the Australian scene in the decades
1890-1910, with which Pearl chiefly
deals, somewhat resembled a full
vaudeville theatre, with a large and
respectable audience sitting in darkness,
a little shocked at an outrageous series
of acts by a few bad actors on a lighted
stage, on to which there was at intervals
an intrusion by a more than usually
vulgar Mr. Bones.
Pearl, however, is quite oblivious of
the audience; he mistakes the actors for
the owners and patrons and exhibits
them as representative of all the deni-
zens of the theatre of the continent.
He attributes to the mass of onlookers
all the turpitude of the few and leaves
it to be inferred that they shared the
vices of the lusty fellows in the lime-
light.
The age of which Pearl wrote is not
so far away. It overlaps the lives of
quite young men. The writer of this
article knew Meagher long before he
died, once saw John Norton “plain”
and was well acquainted with many of
the supposed villains who are gar-
landed with Pearl’s uneven prose,
which smacks now of Smollett, now of
Lytton Strachey, now of the “New
Yorker” and occasionally, when he is
off his guard, of Queen Victoria.
It comes as a rude shock to discover
what dreadful persons a lot of these
old acquaintances were. Can that
balding, quiet “Worker” journalist,
S. A. Rosa, whom one knew in the late
’thirties and last saw feeding a puppy
with a broken leg outside a lower Pitt
Street butcher’s-shop, have ever moved
John Norton to write of him that, “in
Melbourne he... .made a fair living out
of melinite, chemical forces, dynamite
and loot”?
Is the kind, shadowy little figure,
rather neutral in personality (who pre-
sented us with a copy of his history of
the Labor party and entertained us with
stories of his days as sub-editor of
“The Bulletin” and of Percy Hunter
and Billy Hughes), the “barbarous,
brutal benedict” from whom the
citizens hastened to hide their virtuous
damsels, as pictured by Pearl with
John Norton’s assistance?
Were members of the New South
Wales Legislative Assembly really
thrown out on the pavements of Mac-
quarie Street in helpless drunken
heaps? From what one remembers of
the survivors of that age they were
either too virile in liquor to get into a
condition to be thrown or too muscular
to submit to that kind of operation.
But Pearl seems to be convinced that
these things happened, that Sydney of
the day of which he writes was a sort
of Gomorrah, and that in Melbourne
nothing flourished by reason of the
Melbourne “Age’s” protectionist policy
save opulent and gilded vice of which
the devotees were mainly Cabinet
Ministers and other people in high
places.
In its way his is a refreshing essay
in old-fashioned sensation —a nice
change from the chronicles of models
who happen to be at Tamarama Beach
wearing nothing and meditating on the
topics of the day when a battery of
evening-newspaper photographers just
happen to arrive. Pearl apparently
intends to be seriously social-historical,
but what social-historical school hie
belongs to it would be difficult to
decide offhand. He lacks the detach-
ment of Mayhew and the sober diction
of Lecky when engaged in illuminating
a subject with a moral. He has all the
zest for the full truth of Eddie Ward
attacking an insurance company com-
bined with the pictorial vividness and
loving-kindness of Rowlandson, the
prince of Georgian cartoonists.
He makes entertaining reading—for
those who really like to read about
John Norton and Mr. Meagher . . .
whom some people would prefer to
forget.
Marco Polo
The variety and richness of the
latest hatchings of that versatile bird
the Penguin made it difficult for this
reviewer to know where to make a
start, and it was for purely associa-
tional reasons that he picked out a new
translation by R. E. Latham of The
Travels of Marco Polo, having in his
younger days done a considerable
amount of plodding in the Venetian’s
footsteps in China and the islands
which Marco claimed to have known
either by acquaintance or description
at a time when no other European was
aware of their existence.
I was soon as absorbed in Marco’s
story as when I first read it, the more
so because stretches of the trail he
blazed 600 years ago are only now
being trodden again by European feet
—portions of the Burma Road opened
during the last war, for instance; and
in every case the new “discoveries” tend
to increase rather than diminish our
respect for the accuracy of Marco’s
observation. 1
It is difficult to understand why
Eugene O’Neill made Marco out to be
a sort of twelfth-century Babbitt. He
was the exact opposite of a Babbitt.
He plunged into parts of Asia unknown
to white men until the 19th century,
made voyages to islands he had never
heard of, objectively described the
manners, morals and customs of peoples
whom modern anthropologists have still
to catch up with, and met the Great
Khan and impressed him. He was, id
fact, a seeker, like the artist. j
Marco says that a child could walK
THE RESOLUTION GAME
In Darwin it will all be different.
In Darwin it will be the same.
But surely cities somehow differ ?
In every city you’re the same.
But Darwin —
Has a different name.
Well, there are countries somehow
different.
All countries play a waiting game.
But there are countries I remember.
Your Countries was a children’s game.
In Greenland —
You would be the same.
Is there then nowhere to be different ?
No, not unless you change your name.
My name is me and is no other.
Then you will always be the same.
Tomorrow —
We’ll repeat the game.
n.s.w.
RAY MATHEW.


from one end of the Great Khan’s vast
dominions to the other in perfect
security. A child at that time couldn’t
walk out of a town gate in Europe
safely. So the khan must at least have
been a genius of organisation; but he
was more than that.
Although not more than a couple of
generations separated him from his
horse-riding, herd-keeping, nomadic
ancestors, he attracted around him
artists, sculptors, architects and crafts-
men who did an incredible amount of
building for him. There is no reason
to doubt Marco when he says that
into Kan-Balik more precious and
costly wares were imported daily than
into any other city in the world: every
day more than 1000 cartloads of silk
entered the city to be worked on by
Kublai’s craftsmen, as well as the
choicest and costliest products of
Cathay itself and every other province.
He thought of everything, did this
oriental Lorenzo the Magnificent,
according to Marco. Outside the city
an army of priestesses of love were
maintained, 20,000 of them:—
They have a captain-general and
there are chiefs of hundreds and of
thousands responsible to the cap-
tain... .This is because, whenever
Ambassadors come to the Great
Khan on his business and are main-
tained at his expense, which is done
on a lavish scale, the captain is
called upon to provide one of these
women every night for the Ambassa-
dor and one for each of his
attendants.
Marco was staggered at the Khan’s
magnificence and splendor and no
doubt envied him his wives and con-
cubines; but he passed no judgments.
Ine missionary friars who followed in
ms footseps later gave miserable
accounts of what they saw because they
took their prejudices with them. When
diey discovered that the ritual in the
J ibetan monasteries bore a remarkable
resemblance to the ritual in their own
entireties they thought it was an illu-
sion created by the Devil. Marco, on
e other hand, gives a sympathetic
, cc ?r °*- tbe life of Sakyamuni
ttddha and concludes with the
en lghtcned observation that “assuredly,
a d he been a Christian, he would
a y e been a great saint with our Lord
Je sus Christ.”
Everything about the country seems
0 nave enchanted Marco. He “reaches
nproK 11 w * tb . y iH a g es and hamlets
i ned on precipitous crags where a
an , ls regarded as displeasing to
of Jre S w ? rt Mess from the point
P *‘;. w marriage unless she has had
whl,; len t ce , ma ny men; wherefore,
foreion 1 i iap P ens that men from a
country a tb are passing thr °ugh this
daughters t]l ™ atrons bf mg thei r
J rs to their camps where they
may enjoy them but not abduct them.”
“Obviously the country is a fine one
to visit for a lad from sixteen to twenty-
four,” is Marco’s comment.
Since Marco loved Kublai and
everything about him, Kublai loved
him; so much so that he made him
governor of a Chinese province, and
when, after thirty years, he and his
uncles wanted to return home, did his
utmost to prevent them.
M.G.S.
Reviewed Briefly
The Anatomy Lesson: Evan S.
Connell, Jnr. (Heinemann). Short-
stories in the approved modem
American manner: thin but well-cut
slices of contemporary life and
manners served deadpan. The author
brings nothing new to his medium. In
fact, he seems to have learnt nearly
everything he knows about it from
models: most of his stories have loud
echoes of some well-known American
modem —chiefly Hemingway, O’Hara
and Sherwood Anderson. His refusal
to make explicit judgments on his
people and their actions is often
carried to the point where there is
scarcely even an attempt at insight,
and the stories slip back into mere
reportage. But they are never less than
competent and readable.
* * * *
They Came to Cordura: Glendon
Swarthout (Heinemann). The “Cita-
tions Officer” of the 1916 U.S. punitive
expedition against Villa, the Mexican
revolutionary, is escorting five candi-
dates for the Congressional Medal of
Honor, and an American woman
charged with treachery, across a desert
to the U.S. base at Cordura. Having
earlier lost his nerve in combat, the
officer is obsessed by an urge to under-
stand what courage is and why these
men behaved so gallantly in action. He
sees them as symbols of high human
achievement; and even when a string
of terrible disasters and hardships show
them to be anything but heroes and
himself to be by far the bravest of the
party, his faith in them, ironically, does
not waver. The concluding horrors of
the trek are quite incredible, and the
examination of courage fails because
there are different kinds of courage and
it doesn’t do to get them mixed; but the
story is well told and is worth reading
for its documentary chapters about this
little-known campaign.
RIDING WESTWARD
Under his moving wheels
The highroad skids away ;
A rising cloud of dust
Assumes what he would say
To yet another town,
Timbered and small and dry,
Which loomed, then hustled by,
But could not flag him down.
His long hair on the wind,
His chin a stubbled blue,
Jeans and a leather coat:
He streams toward anew
Horizon as on wings.
The bike between his knees,
Iron mistress he can please,
Unwaveringly sings.
This is for roaring boys,
Magniloquently loud ;
The cockatoos fly up
Like an escaping cloud,
Leaving the fences bare
And flapping crows proclaim
Their single-minded aim
High on the troubled air.
Adam, who cannot rest,
Cries out for speed to keep
The skies of his innocence,
Forgotten after sleep.
A town is just a phrase,
A girl may warm a bed
A nd nothing done or said
Can check these summer days.
The tiny spires and panes
Along a skyline slope
Flicker with gold; the sun
Brings neither fear nor hope
But mollifies the keen
Exhilarating air ;
He leaps away from care
Astraddle on a dream.
Long contours of the land
Beneath abounding grain
Receive the level sun
In a rosy wash ; a plain
Runs to the blue south-west
Dotted with clumps of gum.
This road can never come
To any point of rest.
As brilliant day ascends
The cyclist chews and smiles;
No answer is obtained
Beyond these conquered miles,
This unabating roar
And the eternal wind
Through which he rides to find
What he has found before.
At last, approaching noon,
The bitumen winds down
Through the green hush of elms
Shading a country town.
As loungers blink and gape
He spits upon their dust
But, wingless now, he must
Drink briefly and escape.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE.


m
- V
I
HI
ms
m
mm
m
m
o W
v2m*>
m I
Turmoil was the spur
The turmoil in France during the Revolution of 1789
led young Louis Robert to design the world’s first paper-
making machine.
Robert worked in the counting house of a paper mill at
Essonne where paper was made by hand for the
revolutionary government’s banknotes. This was a
laborious task, made even more difficult' by having to
direct 300 men seething with unrest.
To overcome these difficulties Robert designed and
patented a machine to make paper in long lengths. The
internal strife in France at the time hindered experiments
with the machine so the drawings were smuggled to
England to become the starting point of the famous
Fourdrinier brothers’ machine which was built in 1803.
A century and a half of industrial progress from these
historic beginnings has seen the development of the
giant, high-speed machines in modern paper mills.
A.P.M. Australian Paper Manufacturers Limited
a Company owned by some 27,000 Australians —-
has 17 huge machines in its seven mills, working day
and night turning out hundreds of tons of quality paper
and paperboard every day, mainly for wrapping and
packaging.
This production saves Australia millions of pounds
annually of overseas funds, provides employment for
many thousands of Australian workers and makes a
major contribution to Australia’s rising standard of
living.
Buy Australian Made
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman Street, South Melbourne.
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale, Broadford in Victoria;
Botany, N.S.W.; Petrie, Queensland and Bayswater, W.A.
“Sales Offices in all State Capitals”,
