

PROVED THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
as the
HOME LIGHTING
BATTERY that’s
YEARS AHEAD
Century engineers working closely with leading battery
laboratories in U.S.A. perfected this marvellous homelighting
battery, approved by thousands of users all over Australia as
the finest battery ever made. It’s NEW IN EVERY DETAIL
—WITH NEW TECHNIQUES—NEW CONSTRUCTION
METHODS—NEW SUPER PERFORMANCE.
LOOK AT THESE DYNAMIC FEATURES.
o SILYTTM tho sfientifie additive
which KKICI’S PLATES ACTIVE
WITH MAXIM I'M EFFICIENCY;
PRETEXTS CHID CORROSION.
ONLY OKNTFRY HOMELHtIIT-
ING BATTERIES CONTAIN
SILVIUM.
• TRANSPARENT POLYSTY-
RENE CONTAINER . . . you can
see the acid level at a glance.
A INBUILT GRAVITY BALL
INDICATORS . . . sliow state
of el targe AT ALL TIMES.
No more messy hydrometer.
• GLASS INSULATION gives
sustained power during the
BATTERY'S ENTIRE LIFE.
BACKED BY A BULLET-PROOF
THREE YEARS' GUARANTEE
(fnttttrn
with SILVIUM
FOLLOW THE LEAD OF THOUSANDS OF SATISFIED GRAZIERS
AND STATION OWNERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
DEMAND THE BEST ... BUY THE BEST ... BUY CENTURY!
SILYIUM Batteries are also available for all cars, trucks, tractors, etc.
....
SIIVfiIA SiiUlHl
(lillUNVlIVII!)
&
-
%
These three gravity ball
indicators white, red
and green—are clearly
visible through the trans-
parent polystyrene con-
tainer. Their floating
position shows instantly
the Battery s state of
charge.
AVAILABLE FROM CENTURY BATTERY DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
The Bulletin
A Digger’s Last Wish— page m
Wednesday, November 12, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


I
Tiif
BOOKS BOUGHT
We visit you in the City and Suburbs
Immediate Cash Payment
Valuations made for Probate
BW 7874
(After Hours JY 1131)
BERKELOUW
114 King Street, (Between Pitt and.
Castlereagh Streets), Sydney.
800 KHUN TER, Box 2671, 0.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
tee only if successful.
Special Interest to Writers
101 PLOTS USED AND ABUSED
by JAMES N. YOUNG,
20 years Fiction Editor of Collier’s.
Here's 101 different short story plots each
outlined iu less than 200 words—a r ‘mnst” for
any short story writer who hopes to sell on
the 1,000 dollar market in America.
This unique book (hard cover, dust jacket)
now available for the first time in limited
quantity at 19/6 per copy post free. Also
send for your 1958-59 edition of Australian
Writers’ Marketing Guide at 12/6 per copy,
post free.
Beturn Mail Service
ARAWA DISTRIBUTING CO.,
Dept. 81, Box 5151, G.P.0., Sydney.
The Red Page
PASTERNAKS NOVEL
Every now and again some lonely
voice, muffled by distance, the difficul-
ties of translation and the complexity
of Soviet politics, reaches .us from
behind the Iron Curtain to remind us
that Russians are human. The latest,
of course, is Boris Pasternak, who
seems to say through his principal
character, a writer, not only that people
are still people in Russia but that art
is still art: —
A work of art can appeal to us in
all sorts of ways—by its theme,
subject, situations, characters. But,
above all, it appeals to us by the
presence in it of art. One is much
more shaken by the presence of art in
Crime and Punishment than by
Raskolnikov’s crime. There is no
plurality in art. Primitive art, the
art of Egypt, Greece, our own —it
is all, I think, one and the same art
throughout.... It outweighs all the
other ingredients in significance and
turns out to be the essence, the heart
and soul of the work.
Politically—to turn first to the most
obvious of the ways in which it appeals
to us —Pasternak’s Doctor Zhivago
(Collins; Harvill) is not as interesting in
some respects as its immediate prede-
cessor from the Soviet, Dudintsev’s
“Not By Bread Alone.” It does little
to satisfy the Western reader’s natural
and immense curiosity as to what life in
Russia really is like today. It is not,
as was “Not By Bread Alone,” a
picture of the contemporary or near-
contemporary bureaucracy; there is
nothing about making drainpipes in it,
far less anything about sputniks.
Its period is essentially that of the
First World War and the early years of
the Revolution—an era which one
would imagine had already adequately
been covered by Sholokhov; though no
doubt Pasternak has a different slant
on it —and, though it creeps up to the
’thirties and in an epilogue stretches as
far as 1943, with a glimpse of World
War II and Stalin’s purges and concen-
tration-camps, it is still not a picture
of everyday Russian life.
But from another point of view—
and this is obviously the cause of the
uproar in the Soviet about it —it might
be regarded as much more significant
politically, and infinitely more perilous,
than Dudintsev’s novel: for it does not
merely criticise the stupidities of the
bureaucracy from within the concept
of Communism, as Dudintsev did, but
openly and repeatedly attacks the whole
of Communist theory and practice: not
the Revolution itself, which Pasternak’s
hero supported, but all its works. It
is the statement, if we are to accept
the opinions of most of the characters
as Pasternak’s own beliefs, of a
thoroughly disillusioned revolutionary.
These are, indeed, staggering opinions
to come out of contemporary Russia.
The keynote of the attack is struck
at the beginning: “It is always a sign
of mediocrity in people when they herd
together,” says Zhivago’s uncle,
“whether their group loyalty is to
Solovyev or to Kant or Marx. The
truth is sought only by individuals, and
they break with those who do not love
it enough.”
“Marxism,” says one of the charac-
ters, later on in the centre of the book,
“is not sufficiently master of itself to
be a science... .1 don’t know of any
teaching more self-centred and further
from the facts than Marxism.”
“I used to be very revolutionary-
minded,” says Zhivago, “but now I
think nothing can be gained by violence.
People must be drawn to good by
goodness.”
It is a plea for the individual, for
the common man who wants to live in
peace, against the revolutionaries who
“aren’t at home in anything except
change and turmoil.” It is “unattracted
to the modern fashion of coddling man,
exalting him above the rest of Nature
and worshipping him—a sociology built
on this false premise and served up as
politics struck them as pathetically
home-made and amateurish beyond
their comprehension.” Compared with
“the riddle of life, the riddle of death,
the beauty of genius, the beauty of
loving,” theories aimed at “reshaping
the world” are “petty trifles.” The
epilogue sums up: again it is one of
the characters speaking, not necessarily
Pasternak himself:—
I think that collectivisation was
both a mistake and a failure, and
because that couldn’t be admitted,
every means of intimidation had to
be used to make people forget how
to think and judge for themselves,
to force them to see what wasn’t
there, and to maintain the contrary
of what their eyes told them. Hence
the unexampled harshness of the
Yezhov terror, and the promulgation
of a constitution which was never
intended to be applied, and the hold-
ing of elections not based on the
principle of a free vote. And when
the war broke out, its real horrors,
its real dangers, its menace of real
death, were a blessing compared with
the inhuman power of the 1ie....
Everyone without exception, at home
and at the front, flung themselves
into the furnace of this deadly,
liberating struggle with real joy, with
rapture.
But it is not the political interest of
the novel that we must look to for its
final significance, so Pasternak or
Zhivago rightly tells us, but its pure
quality as art, which is to “outweigh
all other ingredients.”
It is not difficult to read “Doctor
Zhivago” primarily as a novel and only
secondarily as a political document,
for it is emphatically a human drama
before it is anything else; but it is
more than a little difficult to see how
highly it should rank as a novel —
difficult, in fact, to read it at all, at
least in the opening chapters.
There is the old, traditional obstacle
of the Russian names: a difficulty for
which this reviewer is inclined to hold
the translators wholly responsible. We
all know that the Russian novelists, if
they have a character called Galiullin,
will also from time to time call him
losif Gimazetdinovich, then for no
perceptible reason suddenly switch to
Yusupka and then find half-a-dozen
other nicknames, puns and misspellings
to name him by —even the canary in
this one is called Kyril Modestovich—
but why not, in translation, simply call
him Galiullin and have done with it?
The novel would lose very little in
Russian atmosphere; it would gain
enormously in clarity.
But a more serious obstacle is
Pasternak’s method of narration, in
which he switches abruptly from one
group of characters to the next, the
groups often seeming to have no rela-
tion to each other and no relation
whatsoever to the central theme of the
novel, Zhivago’s long-drawn love-affair
with another man’s wife, Lara. It is
exactly as if Pasternak were working
on an immense tapestiy; starting-off
('Continued on page 58)


r
Yy
j
i
Ms
INTERNATIONAL
Mighty
line models
MAGNIFICENT NEW MODEM WITH
MANY NEW FIiAWRES.
NEW VERTICAL DUAL LIGHTS
Ideally located four sealed-
beam headlights. When dipped
two beams only provide a
better low-beam light pattern
and reduce glare towards
oncoming drivers.
NEW CAB DESIGN
Wide wrap-around windscreen
with slender pillars provide
wonderful visibility without re-
stricting entry into the cab.
NEW INSTRUMENTS
Instruments have been grouped
in a compact unit directly over
the steering column to mini-
mise off-road glances. New
steering wheel is “dished” for
safety.
NEW WIDER SEAT
New over five-feet wide seat
gives ample room for three
large adults. Plenty of elbow
room for the driver and re-
laxed comfort for all three
over a long trip.
NEW SUSPENDED PEDALS
Suspended pedals reduce foot
pressure and allow free move-
ment of the driver’s feet. They
make service and adjustment
easier, and ensure firm, posi-
tive control of the clutch and
power-assisted brakes.
NEW WIDER, LONGER
BONNET OPENING
Makes engine department
much more accessible for
easier maintenance.
I /\ 1
1 AUSTRALIAN J
NEW
ENGINES
DIAMOND
V
FMX3J^6
Proudly, the new AA-line International Trucks roll on to the roads of
Australia. Here is the power, the payload, the styling for every job — the
handsome broad-shouldered International AA-line trucks with their mighty
new Australian Blue Diamond Engines. These are today’s most up-to-the-
minute transport vehicles — trucks that will cost you least to own.
Call at once at your nearest I.H. Dealer or International Harvester Office.
Ask about the great range of models — about the one for your particular
job. See the AA-line’s new contemporary colours. Know that these are
the trucks for you. The greatest profit-makers with the lowest running cost.
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS—COST LEAST TO OWN
INTERNATIONAL IH TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
171 -205 City Road, South Melbourne, Vic. 'Phone MX5131.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Nov. 12, 1958
Vol. 79—No. 4109
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adam 9
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane .
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
HOW TO LOSE FRIENDS
'THE curious paradox about Dr.
A Evatt’s policy-speech was its rela-
tive neglect of foreign affairs, the only
facet of government that really appeals
to him.
He has never been noted, even among
his own admirers, for his interest in
economic matters, and even less for his
ability in the bread-and-butter sphere.
Despite his straw-in-the-hair outlook on
finance, however, he is not so intrinsic-
ally dangerous as in the field of foreign
affairs, in which he fancies himself as
a world force.
As a Prime Minister dealing with
finance he. like most others, would be
wedged-in by warders of the Treasury,
of the Commonwealth Bank, of well-
established financial machinery backed
by the brake of world markets.
The financial structure of the
Treasury and Trade Department are
almost incapable of reconstruction at
the will of a single Minister. But one
has only to look back at Dr. Evatt's
previous term of office to see what can
be done in a few short months in the
Department of External Affairs.
These people were introduced to the
public service during the building-up
of External Affairs:—
(a) A permanent Secretary to the
Department, Dr. Burton, drawn in
from Melbourne University, a Leftist of
Leftists.
(b) A private secretary who wrote to
a member of Parliament (while he was
serving Dr. Evatt) advising the ditching
of the Western system of civilisation in
favor of the Russian.
(c) A public-relations man in Russia
who had been Canberra correspondent
of the “Tribune.”
(d) A stenographer in the Sydney
office of the Minister who had joined
the Communist party in 1941, who had
helped in the formation of the C.P.’s
offshoot the Eureka Youth League, of
which she became full-time administra-
tive secretary, and who was chosen by
the Minister’s private secretary men-
tioned above. On appointment, she
volunteered to give information of
interest to the Communist party and
“thereafter [as found by the Petrov
Commission judges] she made copies of
departmental documents which she
thought might be interesting to the
Communist party and took them to
Clayton .... For much of the period she
had a room to herself which adjoined
the Minister’s room and had a connec-
ing door.” Clayton was a prominent
functionary of the Communist party
and at the same time was the chief
espionage agent of the Soviet Union in
Austr^lidt
(e) J. F. Hill, a brother of E. F. Hill
(secretary of the Communist party of
Victoria—Communist counsel before the
Victorian Royal Commission on Com-
munism and at the Petrov commission).
J. F. Hill had been secretary of the
Moonee Ponds branch of the Com-
munist party, but said he left the party
during the war. He was appointed
during Dr. Evatt’s term of office as
temporary research-officer of the Post-
hostilities Planning Division of the
External Affairs Department and w r as
rapidly promoted to be first secretary
of the U.N. division of the department
after serving as one of the Australian
officials of the U.N. Dr. Burton
“thought him a very reliable officer.”
At the same time it was astonishing
how many members of Dr. Evatt’s staff
during the term were either Com-
munists, or in friendly contact with
Communists, or had near-relatives who
were Communists, or were looked on
as “possibilities,” because of their
personal associations, by the Russian
M.V.D.
TN fact, even the easygoing leader of
his own Cabinet. Mr. Chifley. became
so “deeply impressed” in 1948 at some
information “collected by Crown
officers... .with the necessity for
greater security in Government depart-
ments, particularly the Department of
External Affairs,” that he formed the
present Security Service —which Dr.
Evatt. Mr. Calwell and Mr. Haylen
have all promised to destroy if a Labor
Government is returned.
The Petrov commission found plenty
of evidence “confirming the former
inadequacy of Security measures in the
department... .greatly amplified by the
papers brought by Petrov and the
evidence of witnesses called before
us.” but they could discover “no trace
that the attempts at penetration of the
department attained any significant
success after 1949.” and thought “that
lack of success largely followed • the
formation of the Security Service in
1949.”
Dr. Evatt admitted in a pamphlet
issued by the Government after it
decided to legislate to protect the
Woomera experiments from Communist
sabotage that Communist propaganda
against the range was “for the sole
purpose of defeating the Australian
defence policy in the interests of a
foieign Power.”
What effect would the elevation to
office as Prime Minister and/or Minister
for External Affairs of a man with
this record of apparent indifference to
Communist activities have on our
relationships with the United States
and the United Kingdom and other
Allies? What would our Allies think
of it in view of the fact that when the
Communist party or any leading Com-
munist has been in jeopardy from
Government action not instituted by
his own Cabinet Dr. Evatt has so
frequently rushed to its or his defence?
YX/HAT will the United States, on
whose help our defence must de-
pend in time of danger, think of trans-
fer of power to such a Minister when
it remembers his action in clearing the
U.S. out of the Manus base just after
the war in conjunction with the fact
of his stated policy towards Russia at
the end of the war (“Hansard,” Vof.
186, pp. 204-5), directly after the
Canadian Royal Commission’s revela-
tions of the nature of the Ottawa
Soviet-spy plot:—
The real question is . . . What is the
underlying purpose of the Soviet
Union?.... Having no clear evidence to
the contrary, and having during the last
four years come to know some of
Russia’s greatest statesmen, I take the
view that the Soviet Union’s policy is
directed towards self-protection and
security against future attack. In my
opinion its desire is to develop its own
economy and improve the welfare of its
peoples. That is my view; perhaps it is
wrong.... That is the opinion on which
I act.
If the Doctor’s opinion has altered
materially there is little evidence of it.
The whole country rang with the news
that, following issue of the Petrov-com-
mission finding, he had written to
Molotov to check whether the con-
sidered finding of three trusted Aus-
tralian judges about Russian espionage,
after hearing evidence for months, was
accurate, and that he preferred
Molotov’s say-so on the matter.
If they should see such a man in
office, elected on a policy-speech in
which his own interest in external trade
seems to focus on trade with Red
China, in which he advocates the
emasculation of Seato as- the one
specific item in his defence policy save
the complete cessation unconditionally
of nuclear tests —the A.L.P. directive
of policy makes the prohibition abso-
lute: “whether for war or experimental
purposes” —what will be their policy
towards him. and us. even if he and
his party do profess to oppose Com-
munism?
The election of a Government headed
by Dr. Evatt. or with Dr. Evatt and
his colleagues in charge of defence
and foreign affairs, will end on
November 22 any confidential relation-
ships we have with the United States.
Dr. Evatt is the arch-expert in the
art of losing us worth-while inter-
national friends.


“Double, double toil and trouble;
Menzies boil, inflation bubble!”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Democrats Win
The results of the United States Con-
gressional elections add greatly to the
difficulties both of the United States
itself and of the free world at ( large.
Moscow, remembering what happened
when the Democrats were in power in
the White House before the Truman
regime, must have smiled in anticipation
of a Leftist regime in the State Depart-
ment. And even the victorious Democrats
must feel the irony of the position, since
much of the unpopularity and a great
proportion of the Republicans’ failures
are due to the policies of one of Mr.
Eisenhower’s Ministers—-Mr. Dulles, who
once was a favorite servant of post-war
Democratic Administrations.
The Presidential election, of course, is
not due for two years, and in the mean-
time the worries of a sick President will
be greatly added to. The mechanical
position in the two Houses is not very
greatly altered. But a Democrat majority
in both Houses in the last Congress has
now been turned into an overwhelming
majority.
This majority will give the Democratic
party full effective control over foreign
affairs. Even though President Eisen-
hower says that he will make no change
in foreign policy, anything he does will
be subject to the assent of his political
opponents. The most that Senator Green,
the Democratic chairman of the Foreign
Affairs Commitee, will say is that he
will continue to support the President
in his overseas policies “when he thinks
he is right.”
Mucfi can happen in two years, but
the prospects of a Democrat Administra-
tion largely elected on the swinging negro
vote and by the influence of the powerful
and often corrupt unions, particularly
the transport bodies, which are using all
their tremendous power at- the moment in .
an endeavor to take control of the
United States economy and become the
de facto Government, are not encourag-
ing to America's friends and allies.
Congress is now “Left of centre” in
dominant politics, and not the purer for
the influences behind it—the same in-
fluences which may decide the fate of
the Presidential election. The prospect of
another era of Yaltas is not inviting.
The result shows how wise it would
be for the British Commonwealth to
achieve common policy and a closer and
better-integrated global defence policy of
its own ; how wise - it would be to stand
on its own feet, strong enough to assert
itself!
Eddie Finds a Goldmine
Conjectures as to how a Labor Govern-
ment would find the money for the hand-
outs promised by Dr. Evatt in his policy-
speech have been answered by Eddie
Ward, Minister for Something-or-other
in Labor’s “Shadow Cabinet.”
Eddie has a twofold plan. First there’s
to. be a Federal Government Insurance
Office which will slash premiums and
iake-in the dough hand - over - fist.
Secondly, says Ward, a Labor Govern-
ment would (through the Commonwealth
Bank) enter the hire-purchase field in a
big way, with resultant large profits.
Insurance-companies have long been a-
favorite target for Labor politicians.
Nationalisation of insurance is still
tucked-away somewhere in the A.L.P.
platform, and when Ward was fairly new
to Federal politics his former colleague
Jock Garden included it in the Garden
Plan for Australia. Nationalisation being
for the moment relegated to the back-
ground of Labor propaganda Eddie has
plumped for competition instead of
confiscation.
In his policy-speech Dr. Evatt hinted
that Labor might consider establishing
an insurance office, but he seemed to
be thinking more along the lines of
competing with the private offices in
order to make them cut their premiums.
Eddie also intends to undercut, but as
he envisages large profits, he obviously
doesn’t intend the office to be a mere
public utility. It’s one thing, apparently,
for private companies to make big
profits from insurance. That’s bad! It’s
quite another matter for a Government
insurance office to rake-in the dough.
That s entirely good!
Hire-purchase profits, too, have been
under fire from Labor for some time ;
even during the present election-campaign
speakers have been inveighing against
the high interest-rates charged by
finance-companies. Eddie's directive to
the Commonwealth Bank will presumably
include a reduction in interest-rates on'
h.-p.—but not too big a reduction, or
there won’t be enough profits to rake-in.
It seems that Eddie and the Doc. and
a few more of the party's financial ex-
perts had better get together and decide
just what they intend to do about in-
surance and h.-p. Is their object to give
the community the benefit of low
premiums and low rates of interest or
are they going for huge profits to boost
their revenue? Eddie Ward seems to
think they can do both.
The Hurseys
When the Hursey case-against the Water-
side Workers ended and the Chief Justice
of Tasmania awarded £2500 damages each
to the Hurseys, the two men who have
been driven off the Tasmanian wharves
by a gang of Communist leaders trying
to force them to pay a political levy to
support the A.L.P. and Dr. Eva,tt’s
election campaign, not a word of thanks-
giving was said by the leaders of Labor
or Communism that freedom of political
thought had been vindicated.
One would certainly have thought that
even from his sickbed Dr. Evatt would
have risen to approve the verdict and the
principles behind it, and that if he were
not well enough Mr. Arthur Calwell, Mr.
Eddie Ward and their ally and advocate,
Mr. Sharkey, who is forever hollering
for freedom of speech and action for his
subversive Moscow-based mob, would
have done duty for him.
The Federal Labor platform, on which
presumably the Federal election is being
fought, calls for
Free election under universal adult equal
and secret franchise with Government by
the majority with equal rights for minorities.
The rule of law to be the right of all.
In this case the rule of law has been
completely flouted and new laws set-up
by a Communist coterie aided and abetted
by a bloc of Labor roughs who forcibly
obstructed two men from their occupa-
tion because they would not yield to the
dictation of a junta which was extorting
. from them money under threat of ruin
for themselves and their families.
Federal leaders had in fact openly and
publicly supported these ruffians. They
had no word of condemnation for the
way they forced the two men off the
wharves by threats of violence. They had
no condemnation for the supine Tas-
manian Government and its police.
The Communist 'p art y and its A.L.P.
allies have little respect for the law when
it stands in their way. But in this, as
in dozens of other cases, they have used
it—and thousands of pounds of their
members’ money—to vindicate not some
right of those who keep them in office,
but their own right to maintain a brutal
dictatorship outside the law which they
normally revile and instruct and force
their union masses to disobey when it
cuts across their policies.
Martin on the Press
Though little of what he said about “The
Press and Public Opinion” was new,
Kingsley Martin, in the first of his three
Dyason lectures at Sydney Assembly Hall,
concealed a serious purpose under a
highly personal and thought-provoking
humor free from the political coloring
one would expect from the editor of the
London “New Statesman.”
Beginning with the point (B. 5/11/’SB)
that Australia gets little attention from
the English press because we don’t have
enough unemployment, political up-
heavals, crime or spectacular sexual
aberrations to delight the English sub-
editor, he brought one face-to-face with
a definition of news-value, and the
thought that the mass-circulation press
sells news as a commodity, which, like
soap, must always have certain basic
ingredients if people are going to buy it
at competitive prices.
To show that these ingredients have on
the whole been correctly assessed and
applied, he asked whether anyone present,
if handed a page giving a detailed
analysis of a political situation that
affected everyone’s future, could be sure
that his eyes wouldn’t wander awßy from
their best interests when there happened
to be on the same page the story of “Miss


Twinkletoes, who was found drowned in
only a pair of yellow silk stockings.”
He didn’t believe, however, that the
press has the kind of power it is com-
monly credited with. Influence, yes—a
tremendous one. But power, no. Other-
wise, how could you explain such things
as Roosevelt managing to get elected as
President, not once but four times, while
being opposed by almost, the whole of the
large-circulation American press?
He then amusingly described how press
influence has worked in the last 70 years
on, for example, the attitude of the
English public towards the French/ the
Germans and the Russians —i.e., subjects
of which the public generally had no
direct experience and so could not form
even the beginnings of an opinion of its
own.
The existence of a number of small,
independent papers—like the “Manchester
Guartjian,” the “Spectator” and, of
course, the “New Statesman” —made him
hopeful that the trend towards press
monopolies in England would never com-
plete itself. And because these papers
are not concerned overmuch with making
money and getting huge circulations, he
said, they were able to supply the kind of
information and comment out of which
a really effective public opinion could be
formed. Their influence, though com-
paratively small, was more lasting than
that of the mass-circulation press.
The implication here seemed to be that
the big papers are too much bound to
the role of entertainers and ticklers of
mass tastes and prejudices to be able to
shape public opinion decisively.
If that is what Mr. Martin meant, one
can’t help thinking, after looking at
Sydney “Sun-Herald’s” schodlmarmish
efforts last Sunday to help its by-now-
bewildered readers to think for them-
selves about the issues of the coming
election, that he really had something
there.
Defamation and Mr. Cahill
On the face of it Mr. Cahill’s new
Defamation Bill looks more like the work
of an imaginative schoolboy than a serious
piece of legislation drafted by a skilled
Attorney-General.
But, knowing the Cahills, it can be
taken for granted that there are pitfalls
in it for the press and broadcasting-
stations and TV, and that there is an
objective behind it which is certainly not
likely to be directed towards the strength-
ening of the public’s right of freedom
of speech.
The key sections leave room for some
misgiving:
Any imputation concerning any person,
or any member of his family, whether
living or dead, by which the reputation of
that person is likely to be injured, or by
which he is likely to be injured in his pro-
fession or trade, or by which other persons
are likely to be induced to shun or avoid
or ridicule or despise him, is called
defamatory, and the matter of imputation
is called defamatory matter
whether it be “expressed either directly
or by insinuation or irony.”
If this says what it means it is a con-
siderable extension of the common-law
understanding of defamation which in
the case of libel as the English law under-
stands it is limited to words which tend
to lower the person attacked in the
estimation of “right-thinking men”; and
in the case of slander is limited to
instances where the words impute a crime
for which he may be actually punished
by law; which impute to him a con-
tagious or infectious disease ; which are
spoken in relation to his profession, trade
or office and tend to injure or prejudice
his reputation therein ; in the case of a
woman to allegations of unchastity or
adultery.
On the face of it, there is no limit
to the ambit of effective defamation in
the new codified bill, and it seems to open
the way to a lot of abuses.
The much-advertised provision in rela-
tion to imputation against the dead
follows the English law —with a differ-
ence. In English law it is a criminal
offence to publish defamatory words of a
deceased person if they are used expressly
to bring contempt on his family and to
provoke, them to a breach of the peace.
Mere vilifying,-it has been held, is not
enough. There must be purposeful
vilifying with a view to injure the pos-
terity. And there must be intent to
provoke.
Civil defamation is subject to the same
test in respect of dead persons*-as it is
in relation to live persons: Does it injure
someone Jiving in the opinion of right-
thinking men?
The criminal provisions of the Cahill
bill need looking at even more closely
than the civil ones, lest Mr. Cahill be
contemplating using it for political
intimidation. The dangerous clause
reads: —
26. Any person who unlawfully pub-
lishes any defamatory matter concerning
another is liable, upon conviction on indict-
ment, to imprisonment for any term not
exceeding 'one year or a penalty of such
amount as the court may award or both.
Although there is a safeguard that an
indictment may not be issued against a
newspaper or periodical save upon an
order of a judge of the Supreme Court
or District Court, the average citizen
who cocks his thumb at Mr. Cahill out-
side Parliament House and remarks,
“There goes a great statesman,” with a
gesture that convinces Mr. Cahill that
he is likely to be injured through
irony or insinuation, can, theoretically at
any rate, be hauled before a stipendiary
magistrate or a District Court judge
sitting without a jury and get up to 12
months.
Of course there is nothing in the new
bill which will deter the vexatious litigant
by importing into the Act a provision for
an application for security of costs, as
has been done in Western Australia. At
present, newspapers are at the mercy of
any ratbag or malicious man of straw
who cares to bring an action, invoke a
train of witnesses and leave his victim
lamenting for several thousand pounds
in costs that have been given against the
penniless plaintiff when he loses his
malicious and frivolous action.
The Choking City
According to Sir Arthur Warner, Vic-
torian Minister for Transport, there is
no alternative to legislation to enforce
staggered hours of work, and he intends
to make firm recommendations to Cabi-
net early next year with a view to getting
a bill prepared.
Shop-assistants will, be the group most
(and first) affected, apparently, not
merely because there are so many of
them, but also for the reason that once
they don their bonnets the doors of the
shops will close and shoppers perforce
will leave the city, too.
The drafting of the Government’s bill
will be an admirable compromise if it
can satisfy either the Melbourne retailers
or the members of the Shop Assistants’
Union, and brilliant indeed if it can
please both,'since, generally, the retailers
and their employees want the current
9.5 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. week-day hours
undisturbed.
Shop-assistants may favor an earlier
start and a correspondingly earlier finish,
but this is unlikely to please their em-
ployers, who fear the earlier end to
city trading will divert some business to
the suburbs ; and they —or most of them
—are opposed to a later finish, since it
would entail -penalty-rates prescribed by
the State Wages Board, to which the
power has been delegated.
Warner's interest in the hours citizens
leave the city stems from the difficulties
of the transport departments in attempt-
ing, in restricted hours’ to move the
great body of them into and out of it;
and another factor is the ever-increasing
growth of the motor-traffic, chiefly in
a southerly direction, across a hope-
lessly inadequate number of Yarra
bridges. \
The latest attempt by the traffic con-
trollers to ease the congestion has been
to throw open three lanes of traffic to
the outgoing or incoming traffic at peak
times, taking-in the third lane from the
overtaking track alternately in the morn-
ings and evenings. Most drivers are wary
of using this third lane, often marked
only by lights, and distrustful even when
police courtesy-cars are present to en-
courage them vocally to do so.
Melbourne City Council last month
changed the hours of its office-staff to
8.25 a.m.-4.45 p.m., and the new hours
are reported to have been acceptable to
both departmental managers and office-
workers ; but the much larger employers
of office labor, such as insurance offices
and banks, have given no hint of follow-
ing the lead.
There are suggestions of opposition
to Sir Arthur Warner’s proposals, and
claims that the staggering of hours should
be introduced as a voluntary contribu-
tion to the easing of the wretched peak-
hours conditions now prevailing in
Melbourne; but, as the Minister has
said, answering his likely critics in
advance, staggering is not likely to be
achieved without enforcement.
[For election matter in this issue requiring
signature, David Adams, of 252 George Street,
Sydney, is responsible.]


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
The French playwright lonesco —whose
plays upset some people —is a
frisky little man whose conduct also
sometimes upsets. He- was playing at
matador-and-bull with a friend down
the bar of a London music-hall when
the indignant Hebe stopped them with:
“Who do you think you are? Austra-
lians?” Monsieur I. accepted this
accolade of nationality with delight, and
now always forestalls reproach for his
antics .with: “Je suis Australian.’
Which should prove we can get away
with anything! —“Tom Trout.”
* ■* ♦>
' “Lignum”: Seems both great wars pro-
duced youngsters of the same mould.
During War II I encountered, in the
9th Div., one called “Bambi,” a great
kid, who could look older when neces-
sary ; he had his 15th birthday in the
M.E.‘ in 1942 —quietly, of course. Ran
across this ageing veteran again just
before embarkation for Borneo. Happy
to say he came through O.K. On the
other side of the record we had two real
veterans: .“Harry” of “Puffing Billy”
fame (a contraption , which provided us
with hot water in Palestine), over 60 in
the year stated ; and “Lynchie,” cracker
soldier, a mere 57! “Harry” had two
wars behind him, and “Lynchie” the
1914-18 show.
♦:< ♦> **■>
“Ercy”: Down Melbourne way the
defendant described the parlor-scene:
“Then George said to my wife three
times, ‘I love you,’ turned to me and
said, ‘You have nothing to worry about,’
and hit me on the head with a beer-
“I like it! Reminds me of a sheila I used to knock round with in 1928 .”
bottle.” “Full?” queried the Beak.
“Who?” replied the witness. “Oh, the
bottle? No, empty.”
* * ♦>
“Maitri”: Sitting opposite to me in
the train on a sweltering Wednesday were
two smartly - dressed women taking
advantage of the cheap midweek tickets.
“What about going to the French film?”
asked one. “Not on your life, dear,” said
the other. “It's hot enough as it is.”
* * *
“Narumee”: Back around 1858 in the
U.K. pepper was eked out with red-lead,
coffee with sawdust and baked horse’s
liver ; tea was colored-up with Prussian-
blue, and flour given body with plaster-
of-Paris. This makes it easier to under-
stand why those old family photographs
portray characters in rigidly agonised
stances with hands glued across their
stomachs!
“Des”: At about 8 a.m. three office-
girls stood chatting in the warehouse
doorway, waiting to be let in. A low-
slung sports-car swerved spectacularly
around the corner and drew-up sharply
before them, red duco and chrome glow-
ing in the young sunlight. Chatter
stopped, and they watched expression-
lessly as tall, fair driver hopped out,
opened the flaplike door, helped his
tightly smiling girl-friend onto the foot-
path, squeezed her hand, hopped back
behind the wheel and roared away. The
girl-friend watched him out of sight,
then turned towards the three in the
doorway. A pause, then a burst of mutual
recognition, full of stressed dear’s, did-
you’s, is-he’s, and smiles strained through
clenched teeth . . Next morning, same
time, the sports-car again roared up and
deposited its charming freight. But the
warehouse doorway was quite blank and
empty, and the girlfriend looked some-
how small and lonely as she walked
slowly over to it to wait . . .
* *
“Tock Emma”: A unique address in
Sydney is that of a suite of offices over
the A.N.Z. Bank at the corner of Pitt
and Hunter Streets: 68| Pitt Street,
claimed to be the only half-number in
Sydney—and probably in Australia,
although half-numbers are sometimes
used in London and other English cities.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Dear Bill”: Everybody knows every-
one’s business in our small but orgulous
city. On the bus the taxation official who
sends out reminders to laggards told me
a woman, rang him yesterday asking him
how to spell “immediately.” He com-
plied and inquired why she had rung him.
“Well,” she replied, “you use the word
more than anyone else in the city.”
WORDSWORTHIAN NOTE
“Wearing only two towels, one around her
head and one around her waist, a 22-year-old
Sydney girl, who explained that she had
accepted a challenge to walk to Bronte lor a
swim, was arrested, charged with offensive
behavior, pleaded guilty, and was fined £5.”
Behold her, single in the street,
Yon solitary Sydney lass
Walking to Bronte by herself !
Stop here, and watch her pass :
A towel bn her head is wound,
And one her slender .waist around;
No other garment may between
These bands of towelling be seen.
No portable did ever chaunt
Such fashion-notes to sweltering bands
Of surfers in some sunny haunt
Among Pacific sands —
But now the Law’s harsh voice is heard
As in the spring the Cuckoo-bird
Shatters the silence of the seas
Among the farthest Hebrides :
“ Will no one tell me what goes on?”
Even so his plaintive queries flow
For old, put-off caparison
And blouses long ago;
And then ensues a humbler lay,
Familiar matter of today :
In court the cop tells what she did,
And she pleads guilty. Fined five-quid.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


On the roof-garden of the Sydney
Journalists’ Club, watering flowering
banks of sandwiches and savories with
beer, journalists dressed like Thursday-
afternoon advertisements crowded round
as the managing-director of Ampol, Mr.
W. G. Walkley, presented the 1958
Walkley National Awards for
Journalism:
Best newspaper report, £500: Douglas
Lockwood, for his report on the aboriginal
(Ruth Daylight) meeting with the Queen
Mother. Best feature-story, £200: J. G. Paton,
editor of the “TV News-Times, for his inter-
view with Eric Baume. Best magazine story,
£100: Harry Cox, of Melbourne (for the second
time), for his story “Why a Boy Murdered. ’
Best story in provincial newspaper, £10(L
J. G. C. Coleman, of Townsville “Bulletin.”
Best news-picture, £100: R. Sanders, “Courier-
Mail,” Brisbane. Best cartoon, £100: Virgil
Reilly, “Daily Mirror,” Sydney, for his dead
soldier emerging from the war-memorial to
ask his little girl if she was learning her lessons.
And best piece of press art-work, £100: R. C.
Altmann, of the “Sydney Morning Herald,’
for a huge paste-up of little bits of paper.
Douglas Lockwood had been flown down
from Darwin for the presentation, and the
Queensland winners had also come by air;
Mr. Walkley presented young Mr. Sanders’s
statuette to the proud and beautiful young Mrs.
Sanders in return for a chaste kiss; the Federal
president of the A.J.A., Mr. Howard Palmer,
apologised for getting his introductions mixed-
up, although the softness of the loudspeaker
rendered this unnecessary; the prizewinners
mumbled their thanks as awkwardly as good
Australians should, and, as The Bulletin left,
the party was obeying Mr. Palmer’s injunction
to get stuck into the grog—it looked like
developing into a very pleasant morning.
►F +*♦ *X+
“Jane”: Thought I’d let Westralian
Timber Week bask a while in glory before
mentioning the Dutch acquaintance who
invited me to see her house, recently
painted by one of her countrymen. It
was a superb piece of artistry and work-
manship and I was generous in praise
of it. “And of course,” she added, “it
was only Australian timber he start to
work on.”
♦j« »I«
“0.W.W.”: An Army babbler I know
cooked a ham for a Christmas mess-do,
and set it to cool behind a pile of
cereal-food packets. Later his atten-
tion was rudely attracted by the wild
shouts of an 18-year-old fatigue, who
was excitedly spraying the ham with a
fire-extinguisher! He had mistaken
rising clouds of steam for billowing
smoke.
“W.M.”: After three years in New
Zealand 1 can assure you that although
Government-run betting-shops are handy
enough if one is in the main street, no
one is going to walk three blocks when
the little man in the corner-shop will take
your bet, along with the weekend order.
❖ ❖ ❖
DITTY FOR MELBOURNITES
Sydney, Sydney,- monstrous city,
What ogre brought you forth?
For look, you freak, you’ve got three
Heads —
Middle, South and North.
n.s.w. lan Healy.
“Meena”: That par. about Japanese
pleasantry over a trifling purchase (B.
29/10/’5B) took me back to when I tried
to buy a teapot here. I told the salesman
nothing in stock was suitable. He
demanded: “What’s wrong with that
one?” I said it was the wrong color.
“Well—this one then?” I said, very
“Well, what Would YOU do if someone called you an overnight-bag ?”
apologetically, that it wasn’t big enough.
“Look,” he thrust out a belligerent chin,
“you can’t have everything you can
have either the right color or the right
size. And lucky to get it too!” I refused,
apologetically, to accept his alternative
or his dictum, and I bought something
small, but when I left he was still mutter-
ing about some people being impossible
to please. This attitude won't attract
customers overseas, who, oddly, expect
entire satisfaction for their money.
Alternatively, they can always buy from
Japan.
❖ ❖ *
“Tressy”: Duplicated names (B.
22/10/’58)? One Mile Estate, in Queens-
land, having been changed to Leichhardt,
my letters now go to the Sydney suburb,
no matter how big “Queensland” is
written below.
•> *•>
“C.A.L.”: When Customs men dis-
covered contraband salami on an Italian
migrant-ship at Fremantle I asked an
Italian New Aussie why this food should
be smuggled in when their own country-
men had set-up businesses to manufac-
ture native foodstuffs here. “It is some-
how not the same,” Toni replied sorrow-
fully ; “they can’t get the real flavor into
the salami they make here. Now in
Italy, when the family cow, the goat or
the donkey get too told for work, we
kill him and make the salami out of him.
In Australia the meat is bought from
the big butcher, the sheep or bullock do
not know the Italian family at all.
Salami coming from my country has the
breath of Italy in it.”
“Tom Trout”: Members of South
Australia’s “Eros” Club, who
mingle annually at the feet of
the Piccadilly Circus archer, have
wrongly identified themselves, according
to one of those know-it-all quiz-panels
of the 8.8. C., correcting also 10-million
Londoners. The boy with the bow is
not the pagan god of sexual love at all,
but, as intended by its sculptor, in honor
of the philanthropy of Lord Shaftesbury,
represents “The Angel of Christian
Charity.” Did ever artistic communica-
tion go so awry?
❖ *
“Pat”: At a women’s luncheon: “Of
course,” pronounced the gorgeously
garbed female, “we’d love Billy to see
the English cricketers while they’re out
here. The trouble is to find someone to
take him. Bill hasn’t/a minute and I
couldn’t bear cricket.” “He could go out
with Tommy,” suggested the plump,
plain-suited one. “Tommy! But you
don’t mean to say you let him go right
out to the Cricket Ground by himself,
a child of eleven?” “Certainly ; why
not? He’s been doing it for years.”
“Well, honestly,” said the glamorous one,
and with sincere indignation, “I don’t
think that’s fair to the motorists.”
*** ♦>
“Ex-R.S.M.”: The Southern Cloud,
found after 27 years, is one of many
planes which failed to clear a mountain
summit by about 50ft. It often happened
during the last war. The radio of an
American Flying Fortress went silent
while announcing that it expected to land


at Townsville within half-an-hour;
months later a fisherman looked at the
mountain on Hinchinbrook Island and
said to his mate: “When the sun’s low
in the west I’ve seen what looks like the
wing of a plane up there.” Next morning
he bashed his way up the jungle slopes,
and there was the missing bomber, with
its crew of 12. A few yards more alti-
tude ... I nearly went west in the same
way in New Guinea a year later with 19
others in a Lockheed Lodestar flying
through dense cloud. The plane leaped
like a horse, and looking out of one of
the little windows I saw treetops flashing
past about 10ft. below. When we landed
at Lae the pilot blamed his altimeter.
“Ah should’ve cleared that Gahdam hill
“So, just to avoid the Christmas rush ”
by a good hundred feet, Aussies,” he
said. I’ve never made-out why pilots cut
things so fine flying blind in mountain
country ; there’s room enough in the sky
to let you miss the peaks by 1000 ft.
or so.
♦♦♦ *%*
“Fairf”: Over the gate of a new school
at Fairfield Heights (N.S.W.) a sign
proclaims in Old English lettering:
“Welcome All. All ye who enter here
will find happiness in one of our four
clubs.” Whether the message is intended
for the kids, or their parents, isn’t clear,
but I don't think the old bloke who
bossed our school would have approved
in either case. The only kind of club he
might have approved of would have been
a wooden one, although he made-out
pretty well with the weapon he had. As
for the happiness to be found within the
gates of the old school, yes, as 1 always
tell my young nephews and nieces, they
were the happiest days of my life. May
the Lord forgive me for a black-hearted
liar.
npHE gay teenagers clustered excitedly
round the brand-new record-player,
but the pile of mint microgrooves
of latest hits was neglected. One after
the other our old wax records, many of
them 20 years ancient, were dragged out
and played amid whoops of joy. It
seems that back-numbers figure promi-
nently among top pops! —“Narumee.”
♦> ♦> +>
“Billy T.”: It’s not Singleton (N.S.W.)
High School which will celebrate its 100th
birthday the third week in November,
but the old Primary School in Hunter
Street. As this school grew, secondary
classes increased until a new Intermediate
High was built in 1940 ; btft both schools
were still under one headmaster. They
were separated in January, 1956. The
secondary department became a full high-
school under R. Cochrane ; the Primary
—now a Ist Class Primary of three
departments—under the wing of yours
truly.
*l* ❖ ❖
“Central”: With the closing-down of
some suburban picture-theatres because
of competition of TV (and possibly the
drive-in theatres) I am reminded of the
Globe picture-show, which was controlled
by the Waddington interests, opposite the
Q.V. Buildings in George Street, Sydney,
round about 1914-16. My work in that
area gave me a break in the early after-
noon, and 1 often spent the time there ;
for an admission-fee of 6d. for the
upstairs portion I was also served with
a soft drink and a biscuit at no further
charge. Going back a little further, when
my father came to Sydney for his holi-
days we always dined midday at Walker’s
restaurant in Park Street, where the full
three courses (and they were full, sir)
cost Is. Perhaps others can remember
this place ; downstairs, on the south side
of the' street.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Croid”: As to “Maitri's” non-
agenarian (B. 29 /10/’5B), I met a friend
at our swimming-pool and inquired
after his father’s health. “There he is
over there,” he said, pointing to an
elderly man swimming like one of the
Konrads kids. “He was ninety-six
yesterday! ”
* * ❖
“Vingter”: At the all-boarders G.P.S.
where I was incompletely educated
it was fairly common for a scholar
to be saddled with a nickname pungently
proclaiming the occupation of his sire.
Thus the son of a man who, before he
drew a prize homestead-block, had rung
many a shed in his shearing days was
known as “Big Gun.” A scion of pure
Merino squatting strain unhesitatingly
answered to the tag of “Bushranger,”
derived from home-district gossip which
had it that his grandsire was a little care-
less in the way he earmarked lambs.
“Even Money” was the young hopeful
of a bookmaking leviathan, while the
father of “Slops” owned a string of city
hotels. The nicknames were not seated
in snobbery, but in juvenile wit or sadism.
The names of “Big Gun,” “Bushranger,”
“Even Money” and “Slops” come most
readily mind because they were in-
separable co-villains in a quartette which
was the despair of “the Crows” —in
whom you will immediately recognise the
teaching staff. The surviving three mem-
bers meet again once or twice a year
in the city.
►> *X* *t*
“Emjai”: “Chicken” is not new; I
admit to the fright of my life 30 years
ago. Returning from golf, another car
pulled alongside and the driver called:
“Race you to the nineteenth! ” and it was
on. Up the long driveway to the gate
on to the main road we were flat-out.
The gate could take only one car, and
there was nothing between us. At the
last possible instant the other fellow
braked and swung behind. Our driver
shot through with no slackening and
remarked: “Silly ass! 1_ was going
through whatever he did. Knew he’d
squib. That’s psychology.” I gave it
another name and ordered a brandy at
the nineteenth.
❖ ❖ *
“Pat”: Once upon a time afternoon-
teas were a hostess’s traditional entertain-
ment for her women friends. Some years
ago luncheons displaced teas. Now, morn-
ing-tea parties have become the approved
mode of providing and repaying hospi-
tality. As I overheard one very socially-
minded lady of the district putting it:
“Asking people for 10.30 in the morning
is simply the only way to entertain these
days. Their children are at school, you
don’t need to offer them a drink, and
you know jolly well they’ll have to leave
in reasonable time to finish the house-
work and shopping they couldh’t get
done before they came.”


A Digger’s Cast Wish
From JOHN LAFFIN (in Annentieres)
The telegram was post-
marked Frou-des-loups,
France, said simply
PLEASE COME
QUICKLY, and was signed
“Odette Smithson.”
The terse command was
strangely compelling and
echoed back more than a year.
Then, while driving from
Brussels to the south of
France, 1 stopped briefly at
Frou-des-loups, a tiny and very
old French village, and stayed
long enough to meet, by acci-
dent, an Australian named
Bert Smithson, a Victorian and
an old Digger who had settled
in the village after the Great
War, bought a farm and had
become, for all practical pur-
poses, a French peasant.
He wtes one of four old
Diggers who stayed behind or
came back, yet the other three
didn’t know he was there and
he didn’t know of them. Inci-
dentally, two of the others
didn’t know of each other’s
existence until a few months
ago. Frou-des-loups, about 40
kilometres south-east of Mons,
was well beyond the Somme
area in which the A.I.F. fought,
but nevertheless it was the place
Bert Smithson chose to live.
Coincidentally, when I
received Mme. Smithson’s tele-
gram I was about to leave for
France to travel the old Somme
and Flanders battlefield to
complete a book I was writing,
so it was only a matter of
advancing my departure by a
few days. I would like to say
that I found the telegram
mysterious—it would make a
better story that way—but I
thought 1 knew what was
behind it. Urgency had
inspired it, for no French
peasant —and Mme. Smithson
was a peasant—sends a tele-
gram without great cause.
I reached Boulogne in the
car-ferry and drove through
the night and ice and falling
snow, for northern France
isn’t a pleasant place in winter,
as any Digger who war-
wintered here can tell you. And
I came upon Frou-des-loups in
a cold, hard dawn —a little
cluster of buildings set in a
valley with the church spire
dominating all. From a distance
it looked like a model village
set in cottonwool.
The French village is the
same all over the country. You
see no farmhouses scattered
about the countryside, the way
you might in England or Aus-
tralia ; the farmers all live in
the village, huddling together
as for warmth, and leave it
each day to work their fields.
Few villages are on a main
road, but set on side-tracks
which go nowhere in particular,
and when you see them from
the main road the tiny clusters
seem infinitely picturesque and
appealing.
But in them life is hard. All
water comes from the com-
munal pump, and the woman
of the house, or the children,
must go out in all weathers to
get a bucket of water for cook-
ing or washing. The houses
have no baths, many have no
electric-light. Few people can
afford coal; so they go to bed
early in the old stone-and-
timber homes, warmed and
scented by the hay in the lofts
and barns, for almost every
home is built around a smallish
square courtyard, with animals
one side and humans the other.
The people have no amuse-
ments, and few ever travel
further than the nearest big
town. The roads through the
villages are of cobblestones,
and the only shop is usually the
boulangerie, which sells bread.
■yET for all the air of hardship
•*- and poverty these villages
have an air of permanence
never found in a large town,
and still less in a city. The
people are close to life and
close to death, and are unafraid
of either. Each village, no
matter how small, has its com-
munal cemetery close to the
village, and here, for centuries,
each family has buried its dead
in its respective plot.
This was the village i saw
as I drove up in the early morn-
ing, its roofs covered with
snow, the water of the pond
frozen hard, cold - oppressed
smoke corkscrewing up from
the chimneys.
When I stopped my car out-
side Bert Smithson’s humble
home I could see nobody, but
I knew that everybody would
know I had arrived. I knocked
at the door, and Odette opened
it almost instantly and beckoned
me in. A buxom, plain woman
of about 45 —much younger
than her husband—she kissed
me on both cheeks but didn't
smile, so I knew that my belief
about the cause of the telegram
was correct.
I also knew that I was too
late.
“I’ve been driving all night,”
I said foolishly.
“I know,” she said. She took
my hands —a man she had met
only once in her life before.
“My husband is dead,” she
said, speaking English. “He
died a little after midnight.”
People had told me such
things before, but I still don’t
know the right words to say.
A small military cemetery on the Somme, with the
village in the background. Most of the graves are
those of Australians.
But Odette had all the French
peasant’s calm acceptance of
death, so there was no need for
me to say much. She wouldn’t
want the usual muttered, half-
sincere words of comfort.
“He was very ill,” she said.
“Perhaps this is a good thing,
because he had so much pain.
I’ll get you some coffee.”
I sat by the kitchen fire —
used for both heating and cook-
ing—and wondered how Odette
could look so fresh and alive
when I was so exhausted. “I
would have come sooner had
you asked me,” I said lamely.
“I know,” she said, putting a
great black kettle on the fire.
“But Bert would not let me
send for you. He was not sure
that he would die, you see, and
he didn’t want to make a big
fool of himself. You under-
stand?”
I understood all right. After
40 years Bert Smithson the
French farmer was still very
much an Australian. Odette
went on: “But then, when he
knew he would die he wanted
to be with an Australian. I
mean no disrespect, m’sieur,
but he wanted any Australian,
and you were the only one
whose address I knew. And
now, to bring you all this
way....”
I told her it was all right,
that I was coming to France in
any case, and we sat and drank
coffee and ate dry rolls in
silence. Outside I could hear
the creaking of lumbering
horse-drawn carts, the sounds
of the village beginning its
day’s work.
“Do your neighbors know?”
I said.
Odette smiled at my
ignorance. “They always
know. But it is not right to
show sympathy until I tell
them.”
“I feel useless,” I said. “Any-
thing I can do?”
Odette folded her arms
across her swelling bosom and
looked me in the eye. “Bert
asked that you do something.
You don’t mind?’’
“What is it?” I said with
more caution than does me
credit.
She came straight out with it.
“He wants to be buried in a
military cemetery, with Aus-
tralians. Allonville.”
I didn’t know of it then, but
Allonville is a tiny village with
a population of less than 200,
in the Amiens area, and about
Q Continued on page 44)


POLITICAL POINTS.
Menzies continues to have some of the
rowdiest meetings of his career. . The
interruptions and demonstrations follow
the same pattern, have not the slightest
appearance of spontaneity and are obvi-
ously prearranged. Menzies blames the
Communists for them and is almost
certainly right. At any rate, the A.L.P.
isn’t likely to claim the dubious credit.
The Comrades are fond of posing as
champions of free speech, but in election-
campaigns their interpretation of it is the
freedom to prevent others from hearing
speeches which express views opposed to
their own.
Noisy demonstrations by these would-
be meeting-wreckers help Menzies rather
than harm him. Labor would be well
advised both to disown them and to
recognise them for what they are, instead
of pretending to believe that the
demonstrators are honest citizens roused
to indignation by the Government's mis-
deeds.
• •
Is Billy Sheahan’s Defamation Bill the
start of a new cult of ancestor-worship
with the motto “Nil nisi bonwn ”?
• •
The Hurseys’ victory in the Tasmanian
Supreme Court set Healy and his water-
sider dupes another problem in addition
to that of finding the money to pay the
£5OOO damages the court awarded the
two men. The customary action of
calling a nationwide wharf-holdup was
ruled out by the proximity of the Federal
election —which shows that Healy and
Co. don’t really believe the Labor move-
ment is behind them on the Hursey ques-
tion. If a wharf-strike for a principle
would lose Labor votes, then obviously
the swingers don’t believe in the prin-
ciple.
' • •
It’s a pity Wapet and Oil Search have
been going to all this expense in their
hunt for oil. According to the cables,
Soviet scientists have invented a device
which detects oil-deposits from the air
with 80 per cent, accuracy.
• ’ •
Last week the two Commonwealth
Banks opened in each State capital a
Migrant Information Centre for the use
and benefit of New Australians. The
Sydney centre is situated on the lower-
ground floor of the banks’ building on
the corner of George and Market Streets
and will be open during normal business
hours and also on Friday evenings and
Sunday afternoons. Staffed by bank-
officers who between them speak eight
European languages and also Arabic, the
centre will provide free information on
many subjects of interest to migrants,
including education, housing, business,
social services and so on. Foreign-
language newspapers will be available to
patrons of the service.
At the opening of the Sydney centre
Les Haylen, M.H.R., said there were
two things migrants had to learn before
they became true Australians —firstly,
that the wife is the head of the family,
and secondly, never to hit one’s children
except in self-defence.
• ®
Mr. Justice Herron, the Royal Com-
missioner in the Landa inquiry, found
in his report that N. S. Wales Housing
Minister A. Landa had not been guilty
of improper conduct as a Minister. He
said it was unlikely that Landa had
ordered suspension of progress-payments
to G. E. Brown and Sons ; the evidence
pointed only to an inference that he had
“intervened” or “interposed”; even if
he had ordered a suspension, such action
alone “could scarcely be said to be
improper.” However, in view of the fact
that the Strathfield Timber Company was
a client of his legal firm, “the Minister
would have been more prudent and dis-
creet if he had refrained from taking any
part in this matter at all.”
Mr. Landa has resumed his duties as
Minister for Housing, which he relin-
quished when the inquiry was decided
upon.
• •
Mrs. H. Dougan, secretary of the
National Pensioners’ Society, is perturbed
at the degree to which the Communist
party has band-waggoned the age-
pensioners: She claims that the Reds
have organised what they call the
Australian Commonwealth Pensioners’
Federation, which sends groups from
State to State holding meetings and con-
ferences and using the pensioners for
their own political ends. Mrs. Dougan
says that Communist domination of some
pensioners’ associations is so complete
that “thousands of pensioners are being
conditioned against Australianism,” and
that apart from the political angle “these
associations have degraded pensioners’
lives and are just mass begging centres.”
• •
“Wimmera”: Another alternative
site for the Mt. Stromlo observatory
(which now suffers from the mists and
fogs that annoy Canberra residents for
many months of the year) is Mt.
Arapiles, which towers over the wheat-
fields of the western Wimmera in Vic-
toria. Scientists from the observatory
have inspected it, and checks are being
made on cloud and weather generally.
There is some local belief that night-
watchers on the mountain may be dis-
turbed by the ghost of bushranger
Captain Melville, who had a hideout on
the range, from which he surveyed likely
business on the stage-coach run between
Melbourne and Adelaide.
• o
The P.M.G. has been getting a good
haul of TV-licence defaulters as a result
of a suburb-to-suburb campaign in search
of unlicensed receivers. Still, even with-
out these deadhead viewers he’s not doing
so badly. In September 32,271 new
licences were issued, bringing the total
to 390,058. N.S.W. is now slightly ahead
of Victoria in the number of licences —
198,522 to 191,492. Tasmania has 44
licence-holders, who presumably peek at
Melbourne programmes.
• •
Victorian Police Commissioner Porter
tufned-up at the Royal Commission on
Off-the-course Betting to object strongly
against the statement by Inspector
Healey, head of the police gaming-
branch, that 30 per cent, of police
neglected their duty in suppressing illegal
betting because of bribery by illegal
bookmakers
When Healey was put in charge of the
gaming squad, he completely reorganised
it to make raids against the well-
entrenched bigger operators and suc-
ceeded far more than was thou’ght pos-
sible. He has now, at his own request,
been transferred to Seymour.


Nine years ago Arthur Calwell, then
Minister for Information, told a Glades-
ville (N.S.W.) audience:
If non-Labor parties are returned to
power there will be unemployment, destitu-
tion and poverty.
The greatest boom Australia has ever
known followed, but in January, 1954,
the prophet gave tongue again:
If Australians are foolish enough to
return the Menzies Government next May
they will be voting for more wage-cuts,
longer hours and a pool of unemployment.
Last week the Jeremiah was at it again,
remarking:
Australia would be in the grip of a
depression in 12 months if the Menzies
Government were returned.
Mr. Calwell added that claims by
McEwen that there were no unemployed
in Australia were as “amazing as they
were inaccurate.” The Minister for Trade
can console himself that even if the
leader and deputy-leader of the A.L.P.
don’t support his view, their director of
campaign publicity, Les Haylen, must.
He announced at the end of the war that
“if unemployment could be reduced to
the 5 p.c. level, full-employment could
be regarded as having been achieved.”
Even on Dr. Evatt’s inflated figures the
percentage today is only about 3 p.c., and
on the more trustworthy Government
Statistician’s figures, under 2 p.c.—about
the lowest of any civilised country save
France.
e •
W. A. Gunn, chairman of the Austra-
lian Wool Bureau/tipped in Melbourne
that research-workers at the C.5.1.R.0.
would come up with drip-dry processes
for wool, not in years but months.
• •
New Yorkers will be getting Austra-
lian meat in their hamburgers within a
few weeks, and even their hot-dogs may
be barking with an Australian accent.
A ship carrying 2100 tons of frozen
boneless beef left Brisbane at the week-
end, destination New York. This is
styled “low-grade” beef, and under the
recently amended meat agreement with
the U.K. it now becomes available for
unfettered sale to America or other
countries. Swift Australia’s managing-
director told Brisbane “Courier-Mail”
that the value of his company’s meat-
exports to America might total a million
dollars this month.
• •
Some gloating is evident among the
Liberals in Spring Street. Bolte’s sane
bill to control hire-purchase could have
been emasculated if the Country and
Labor parties, which have a one-vote
majority in the Legislative Council, had
combined to force ceiling interest-rates
into the bill.
The Country party, however, was appa-
rently brought to heel by reports from
constituencies. Country residents approve
of the bill and its reforms and they want
it as it is, rather than see it shelved.
• •
Delivering the James N. Kirby lecture
to the Institute of Production Engineers
in Adelaide, Professor Marcus Oliphant
predicted that ultimately mankind would
obtain all its power from thermo-nuclear
reactors. He visualised such power-
stations as being situated on the coast,
utilising sea-water and pumping fresh
water inland to irrigate dry areas, at the
same time converting the salts of the
sea to useful materials.
Oliphant said he thought it would
be 10 or 15 years before the basic diffi-
culties of thermo-nuclear power were
overcome. In the long-run he thought
the new form of power, being equally
available to all countries, might remove
the cause of wars. He sees no limit to
the population Australia could support
in the Nuclear-power Age.
• •
While the Federal Attorney-General,
Senator O’Sullivan, was reminding a
Northcote (Melb.) audience of conditions
before the Liberals took over, he men-
tioned queues, coupons, ration-tickets,
shortages, strikes, blackmarkets, under-
counter deals and blackouts. Part way
through his speech a power-failure in
northern Victoria blacked-out the hall!
One of the Minister’s resourceful
lieutenants drove a car onto the foot-
path and directed the headlamps into the
hall. They couldn’t have done that in
1949; there wouldn’t have been any
petrol. Come to that, there mightn’t
have been a car.
• •
Press-stories of leakage of secret infor-
mation from Woomera have been denied
by U.K. Minister for Supply Aubrey
Jones. Mr. Jones told a House of
Commons questioner, “So far as I am
concerned there has been no leakage
of classified information about the Black
Knight rocket or any similar project.”
He added that further firings of the Black
Knight were planned and that “the
opportunity for space research arises
from certain techniques being developed
for the defence programme.”
• •
Although the volume of water in
Sydney metropolitan reservoirs is at
almost record level and the city is in
theory safe from shortages until at least
the year 2000, taps were dry in several
suburbs last week, and restrictions have
been imposed over a wide area. The
water’s there all right, but the mains can’t
cope with the demand.
• •
Sir Thomas Maltby, Victorian Minister
for Public Works, announced, with com-
mendable calculation, that St. Kilda
Road was a national asset as much
worthy of protection as natural beauty
areas, a few days before drastic regula-
tions governing its appearance were
published.
The new regulations prohibit neon-
signs more than six feet in size, sky-
signs and projecting signs and other
excrescences likely to make the avenue
look like Bourke Street. Of the three
municipalities which control the road,
South Melbourne has adopted the regu-
lations, the City Council is expected to
do so with alacrity; only St. Kilda,
which has lately had a row with the
Minister, is hanging back.
• •
“Tom”: The Swiss people—or rather
Swiss males, as women do not enjoy the
franchise in that country —have overt
whelmingly rejected a proposal that the
Federal Government be given power to
reduce working-hours from 48 to 44.
Voting was 586,188 against, 315,910 for.
The vote was called for by independent
members of the Swiss Parliament. A
striking feature of the campaign was that
the Swiss trade-unions opposed the reduc-
tion on the ground that it would give
the Government the right to meddle in
affairs which should be settled solely
between workers and employers.
• •
If Doc. Evatt is allergic to ghosts, the
defunct policy of the N.Z. Labor Govern-
ment contained in its election-winning
campaign speech must be haunting him
uncomfortably. In principle it was simi-
lar to his own —a fine aggregation of
election bribes and promises, all of which
were found dead on the doorstep almost
immediately after the poll, while the
fathers of them were scattered round
the world seeking alms from neighbors
to save the Dominion which had trusted
them from ruin.
• •
There won’t be any “filled” milk in
Victoria. A bill will be introduced in
the current session of Parliament to
prohibit the replacement of butterfat in
milk by vegetable fat. The development
of a filled-milk market has been rapid
in some overseas countries in the last
two years.
• •
“Dalgety” on two retired M.P.s: —•
Artie Fadden and J. A. J. (“Jim”) Hunter,
former member for Maranoa, Whip in the
Bruce-Page and a Minister in the Lyons-Page
Government, have always been close friends.
It was Jim who fathered Artie into the Darling
Downs seat 22 years ago on the death of Sir
Lyttleton Groom. And at all Fadden’s “final”
meetings on his campaigns Jim is taken along.
Artie says that all he knew about politics
was taught him by Jim. He quotes one tip,
“Never make a hero of yourself in any story,”
and another, “Always pick the freeholder of a
hotel in a small town. He will always be
there, but a leaseholder may be gone the next
time you visit,” and so on. Fadden says that
“all the Rafferty rules on How to Win an
Election were written by Jim.”
The publican hint had a strange sequel last
month. On the way to Toowoomba from War-
wick Artie pulled-up at a wayside pub at East
Greenmount, called “The Tourist,” and kept
by Jim O’Mara. Pointing to Jim Hunter, he
asked O’Mara did he know who this was?
After a pause O’Mara said, “Mr. Hunter.”
Then he told how he first met him. O’Mara
was going to a shed to shear near Bowen-
ville, and another car ran into his and caused
some damage. The passenger got out, inspected
the damage, passed over his card, and said,
“Send the bill to me.” It cost £l7, and a
cheque arrived. O’Mara still has that card
and the receipted bill sent by Jim Hunter. This
occurred in 1927 —31 years ago!
The odd thing is that O’Mara has only
been -in “The Tourist” hotel for five months.
It was a long time ago at another pub that
he had told Artie Fadden about knowing Jim
Hunter.


Personal ITEMS
Man of the moment —Gregory Blax-
land Kater, chairman of Oil Search and
its driving-force when times were not
so promising as they look now. He’s a
connection of Blaxland the explorer and
youngest son of Sir Norman Kater. Born
at Orange (N.S.W) and educated at The
King's School and Cambridge University,
he was with the 2nd A.I.F. in the Middle
East and later in the Islands. A Freeman
of the City of London and a Liveryman
of the Worshipful Company of Broderers,
he is also chairman of the Permanent
Trustee Co. and on the board of C.S.R.,
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney and
several other companies.
• •
Charles Biggers comes up from head-
mastering Albury (N.S.W.) High School
to headmaster the boys at Sydney’s Fort
Street. He succeeds G. C. Shaw, Fort's
head since 1953, now retiring.
• •
“Ek D.” -{and artist) with an ex-
Premier:
Arthur Edward Moore, .last Liberal-C.P.
Premier of Queensland before the present
regime, was snowy-haired in his late forties,
but at 82 is emulating the record of his mother,
a sprightly and charming old lady who was in
her early eighties when she told the present
writer that she had “reached the age for world
travel.”
A Maorilander, born at Napier, son of a
general-manager of the Union Bank in Mel-
bourne and London, educated at Akaroa and
Melbourne Grammar, A.E. settled on the land
in Queensland, and is one of the last survivors—
if not the last —of the old Opposition of Sir
Edward Macartney in the Queensland Legis-
lative Assembly. He sat in the 'Assembly for
26 years (1915-41) —a courtly, humorous mem-
ber, sparkling with a bright light in debate
and keeping his sense of humor even when, in
the early days of Ryan-Theodore, the House
MOORE
became a sort of tornado area, the atmosphere
rent with hoarse adjurations to the stolid
Theodore to “put on his fez” in tribute to
Theodore’s Balkan origin.
Moore and the late Donald Gunn and
Andrew Petrie were the practical jokers of the
Parliament, which owed them many a hearty
laugh. It was Donald and Andrew who, after
the Prince of Wales had been in residence,
summoned the members to meet early one day
to receive a gift, thoughtfully left behind by
Royalty. They- then solemnly handed out to
Laborites (the Opposition having been let into
the joke, and being therefore self-denying), in
a series of envelopes each addressed personally
and marked with a compliment appropriate
to the recipient, the last vestiges of the
requisites of H.R.H.’s private toilet.
Moore was not in that joke. His humor
was lest robust, but could be equally dis-
concerting. Behind the sunny front, however,
he was a serious politician, and it was more
due to his dogged fight than is acknowledged
that he led the Opposition to an isolated victory
in 1929 and was the State’s Premier during
the depression years. The Nicklin Government
made him a C.M.G. in its first honors-list.
• •
“Cargo Net”: When ex-Digger Harry
Burcher becomes a manager in Shaw
Savill’s London office early next year
he will be almost unique. The only other
Australian to secure such a post has been
Warwick Gregory, now a director of the
Port Line.
• •
Having given Australia a once-over,
Philip Durr, director of the German
branch of the International Wool Sec-
retariat, and J. L. Vosper, director of
the U.K. branch, are now heading home-
ward via New Zealand and the United
States. Durr, who worked for a time in
Australia before the war, is a member
of a family that’s been in the German
wool-textile industry for more than 100
years. Vosper, a British public-relations
expert, stressed the need for expanding
sales-promotion to help along Australia's
“excellent wool.” He blamed the in-
dustry's slump on higher living-standards
rather than artificial fibres.
• •
Managing-director of Kent Remoulds
and kept busy on the board of two other
Sydney companies and by C.M.F. duties,
K. L. Kesteven was with the 2/4th
Battalion in Libya, Greece and Crete.
He won the M.C. in the Crete campaign,
was captured there and spent four years
as a p.-0.-w. in Germany.
• •
Queensland Rhodes Scholar for 1959
Robert Edwin White, 21, now in his
final year at Queensland University as
an agricultural-science student and
planning to leave for Oxford next
August, builds on to a fair sort of record
for one spot on the map. He is the fourth
Rhodes Scholar to hail from Mary-
borough.
Still on the sunny side of middle-age,
John McCallum (sketched herewith) has
given-up a successful acting career to
become assistant managing-director of
the Firm. It was as natural for him to
go on the boards in the first place as it
is for him to turn now to the administra-
tive side. He grew-up with the grease-
McCALLUM
paint always within reach; his father
(also John) handled such celebrities as
Paderewski and Sousa when running
Brisbane’s Cremorne Theatre. From the
older John comedian Gus Bluett and
other lights of musicomedy learned their
trade. The younger John went through
the theatrical mill doing repertory-work,
here and in the English provinces, then
spent two years at the Royal Academy
of Dramatic Art before settling-down at
Stratford-on-Avon and the Old Vic.
Known best to Australian audiences
for his work in films and on the stage
with his wife, Googie Withers, McCallum
brings to his new job an easy friendliness
and a solid working-knowledge of almost
every side of the entertainment game,
plus a whole mountain of enthusiasm.
• •
Chairman of British Petroleum, Ltd.,
Sir Neville Gass, here recently looking
over the Australian associate co. in
Sydney, joined the Anglo-Persian Oil Co.
(BP’s former name) in 1919 and became
manager at Abadan in 1926. Appointed
chairman in 1957, and knighted in the
1958 New Year honors, he’s a War I
winner of the M.C. and Belgian Croix
de Guerre.
• •
T. D. Campbell, Professor of Dental
Science at Adelaide University, is calling
it a day at the end of this year. A noted
anthropologist, he gained a D.Sc. from
his Alma Mater for his field-work among
the abos., he has made numerous trips to
the interior and sponsored others by
American scientists investigating the


abos’. “suspended animation.” His other
interest is music ; he’s much sought-after
as an accompanist by Adelaide singers.
• •
Contributors to “Other Fellow’s Mind”
who over the years have enjoyed arguing
with “Transporticus,” of Singapore, will
be alarmed to learn that in a letter to
The Bulletin he refers to a par. pub-
lished July 9 as “more than likely my
swan - song.” The letter, postmarked
Cheshire, England, was written from the
interior of a rain-swept caravan —“all
we have to call home.” He explains that
“the 200-year-old house next-door will
be ours at the end of the month, when
we move in and I become the sub-
postmaster and general storekeeper. We
are definitely in the bush, miles from
anywhere, no lights, no cinemas, nothing
but the peace and quite of a backwater,
yet only 13 miles from Chester.”
Frustrated contributors who feel the urge
to interrupt his new-found peace to con-
tinue unfinished arguments could try
writing to L. Irvine-Brown, Ivydene,
Tilston, Cheshire, England. It’s unlikely
that he will enjoy his peace without an
occasional fight.
• •
The Right Rev. J. A. G. Housden,
new Bishop of Newcastle (N.S.W.),
started his church career in mission-
work in the vast diocese of Carpentaria
after graduating from Queensland Uni-
versity. Then he had two years assistant-
curating at Ipswich, with a like term at
the Richmond River (N.S.W.) Mission,
thence to Thursday Island and Darwin,
with Queensland incumbencies —at
Coolangatta and Warwick before
southing to South Yarra, and then going
north again to his old stamping-ground
to be consecrated Bishop of Rockhamp-
ton at St. John’s Cathedral, Brisbane,
the sermon on that occasion being
preached by Newcastle’s present Dean
Hardie.
• •
“C.R.” farewells a famous Westra-
lian :
Few Westralians have been so long and so
prominently associated with so many activities
of their State as Sir Langlois Lefroy, who has
passed on in Perth at 77. A member of a
family with wide pastoral and other interests,
he was the eldest son of Sir Henry Bruce
Lefroy, who was Premier of Westralia during
the latter part of World War I. His grandfather,
Anthony O’Grady Lefroy, came to Westralia
in 1843, was first Colonial Treasurer, and was
a foundation committeeman of the W.A. Turf
Club (1852).
Educated in Perth and at Haileybury College,
Hertfordshire, Langlois Lefroy spent the earlier
part of his working life on family sheep-
stations. In England in 1915 he enlisted in
the 8.E.F., became captain and adjutant, and
won the Military Cross. In War II he was
back in khaki as C.O. of the 19th Garrison
Battalion at Geraldton (W.A.).
Peace-time activities included a record term
as president of the Pastoralists’ Association;
chairman of directors of W.A. Newspapers,
Ltd.; chairman of the W.A. division of the
Red Cross (life-member since last year); chair-
man of the W.A. Trustee Executor and Agency
Co.; chairman of the Board of Advice of the
Bank of N.S.W.; membership of the Univer-
sity Senate and of C.5.1.R.0.; and chairman
of the W.A. Turf Club. With his uncle, Frank
Wittenoom, he raced Coolbaroo (winner of
the P6rth Cup in 1929), Yaringa (1935 W.A.
Derby winner) and Fluent (1920 Derby).
At their conference, held at Hamburg,
the worldwide service-clubs elected Peter
Garnsey, businessman from Albury
(N.S.W.), president of the World Council
of Young Men’s Service Clubs. He
reaches that post a year before retiring, at
40, from Apex (junior Rotary), which
he has served for 21 years.
• •
Australian Ambassador to Indonesia,
Laurence Rupert Mclntyre (likeness
herewith), called in for a look at The
Bulletin office while on his way back
to Djakarta. He was personally in-
terested because his brother, Lester
Mclntyre, used to contribute sketches
and poetry before the war.
Hobart-born, educated at Launceston
Grammar and the University of Tas-
McINTYRE
mania, L. R. Mclntyre was Tasmanian
Rhodes Scholar for 1933 and gained
his M.A. at Exeter College, Oxford.
Joining the Department of External
Affairs in 1940, he became head of the
Pacific Division of the department in
1947, was in Malaya as acting Australian
Commissioner 1950-51,' and then back
there as Australian Commissioner
1952-54. From Singapore he went to
London as senior External Affairs
representative, and from there was
appointed to his present post.
• •
The Indian - owned cargo - passenger
ship State of Travancore-Cochin berthed
in Fremantle recently with two captains
aboard. Her commander, T. Mather,
who is due for retirement soon, made
his first visit to Fremantle 42 years ago.
With him on the present trip came
Indian Staff Captain P. S. Vanchiswar,
a nautical surveyor with an extra
master’s ticket, who has been conducting
examinations of masters and mates for
the Indian Government. He’s making
the Australian voyage to gain experience
which may lead eventually to command
of the ship.
• •
One of the veterans at the Westralian
premiere of the Dunkirk film was Com-
mander A. Long, R.N. (ret.), who is
now a businessman in Perth. Long had
a brief turn in the Army before joining
the R.N. and working his way up from
the lower-deck. At Dunkirk he was in
? charge of arrangements for landing the
evacuated troops on the English coast
and sending them off to hospital or
reception-camps. In War I he was at
the battle of Jutland.
• •
The appointment of Colin McCormick
as first senior lecturer in Italian at Mel-
bourne University is a step towards estab-
lishing a full-degree course there: he
has held a similar post at Sydney Uni.
At present in Italy working for his
Ph.D., McCormick was born in England
34 years ago, graduated with first-class
honors at Cambridge, and came to
Sydney from Manchester University nine
years back. In the war he was with
Military Intelligence at Gibraltar and in
Italy and afterwards in Austria.
.• •
Into the Silence:
At Wellington (N.Z.), at 69, Sir William
Appleton, former Mayor of Wellington and
director of many companies, including the
Charles Haines Advertising Agency. He was
knighted some eight years ago.
In Fremantle (W.A.), at 64, Gilbert Fraser,
Chief Secretary and Leader of the Government
in the Westralian Legislative Council. Born at
Bunbury (W.A.), he joined the P.M.G.’s Depart-
ment at Eaglehawk (Vic.) in 1909 and later
transferred to Fremantle as a telegraphist, to
which role he returned in the R.A.A.F. in
War 11.
In Sydney, Fred Jenkins (“Jenko”), a marshal
of horses at the Royal Easter Show for many
years. He collected money for the memorial
trough to the memory of the “deceased horse-
men and horsewomen of Australia’’ which
stands at Sydney Showground.
In Perth, at 78, Herbert James Lambert,
former “West Australian” editor, and over
many years one of the State’s top journalists.
Moving from South Australia to W.A. in 1899,
he was with Perth “Morning Herald” before
owning and editing the “Swan Express.” Later
he joined the “West Australian,” becoming
associate-editor in 1923 and editor in 1929.
Under his pen-name, “Scrutator,” he ran an
enjoyable Saturday-morning column. He
retired from editorship in 1946 and from the
board of directors in 1953.
In Sydney, at 53, Father Leo Dalton, church-
man, writer, and radio-broadcaster in the
A.B.C. “Pause a Moment” sessions. A man of
generous mind, he had friends in every walk
of life and of every creed.
In Melbourne, at 75, Rev. K. E. Hamilton,
chairman of the Victorian branch of the
Church Missionary Society and member ot
the Council for Religious Education in Schools.
In Sydney, R. C. Williamson, general-
manager and director of James Stedman
Henderson’s Sweets, Ltd.
At Palmerston North (N.Z.), at 66, Leonard
Mangham, who until 1953 was chief engineer
of National Airways. Former racing motor-
cyclist and winner of N.Z. and Australian grass-
track championships, he was also the inventor
of many gadgets used in aviation.


ABORIGINALITIES
ly/fY Aunt Matilda is a regular movie-
goer sees the local show every
Saturday night. Uncle Wilberforce likes
movies, too, but he seldom goes. Aunt
Matilda says she’s afraid to take him.
He shames her, she says.
“How?” she says. “Well, wouldn’t you
feel ashamed if your husband started
fighting with people in the audience?
Happens every time,” she says with
sigh.
I looked at my mild little Uncle
Wilberforce, but he didn’t look up. He
just sat there looking' down sheepishly
at his poached egg, and the poached egg
sat looking back at him, and neither
saying a word. And you’ve never really
felt the impact of the unspoken word
until you've heard it not being bandied
back and forth between my Uncle Wilber-
force and a poached egg.
But Aunt Matilda took him with us
to the pictures that night. We got there
early because Aunt Matilda’s a social
creature and likes to see the people
around her. “Contact broadens the
mind,” she says, and she sat up spruce
and pert and gazed around her. Uncle
Wilberforce slumped down in his seat
and tried to pretend he wasn't there.
“Nice crowd,” said Aunt Matilda
brightly, and Uncle W. cringed and
brought his shoulder up as though ward-
ing-off a blow. “Nice clothes, too,” said
Aunt Matilda. “Some of them. I like
that pink topper,” she said. “Sorta goes
with that woman’s red face. But my
word,” she said, “look at that hat! Did
you ever see such a freak? The things
some women’ll wear,” she said, “just to
be conspicuous,”
My Uncle Wilberforce was sinking
deeper and deeper into his seat, and
just then the woman in the freak,
hat turned and waved to the couple
sitting next to us and they waved
back. Uncle Wilberforce could see all
this out of the whites of his eyes and
he cringed miserably. Aunt Matilda
leaned over him and spoke to the man
on Uncle’s left. “Would you,” she said
sweetly, “please tell your friend after-
wards how much I admired her pretty
hat?”
“Yes,” said the man —he was a big
man. too. “Yes,” he said. “My daughter’ll
be pleased to know what the local gas-
bags think.”
“Well,” said Aunt Matilda. “My
word,” she breathed. “And you,” she
hissed down at Uncle Wilberforce. “Are
you going to sit there and hear your
wife insulted like that?”
“Haw,” said the big man, and he
looked down at Uncle Wilberforce too.
“That little squirt,” he said. “Haw, what
could he do?” he asked loudly.
Uncle Wilberforce wasn't strong on
repartee, but he knew the answer to that
one. He closed his hard knobbly little
fist tightly and brought it up hard and
fast and planted it fair on the big bloke’s
nose.
Well, did that bloke perform? And did
Aunt Matilda?
“My word,” she said. “Did you have
to strike the gentleman?”
You know, I felt real proud of Uncle
Wilberforce then. He tore into that big
bloke’s bread-basket like a terrier, and it
took three strong men to drag him off
and throw him outside.
“This always happens,” said Aunt
Matilda as we got into the taxi. “It’s so
humiliating.”
Gravelsnatcher.
# * * *
“O.W.W.”: A Palmerston North
(N.Z.) schoolboy, 14-year-old Bernard
Fletcher, got through 100-per-cent,
accurate in a chicken-sexing test with the
surprising total of 500 in an hour.
“Hast not learned to read, serf ?”
“Swelpme”: A silver budgerigar in
Glebe (Sydney) evidently hasn’t heard
the maxim about birds of a feather, for
he flocks with a mob of pigeons that
spend the greater part of every day
picking-over the grass on Jubilee Oval.
Flocks of starlings, sparrows and an odd
peewee or two also frequent the park,
but the budgie shows no interest in them.
For more than six months he has flown,
fed and obviously been accepted as one
of the pigeons. He has never been seen
away from them. There could be two
explanations: Budgerigars being flock-
birds by nature, he instinctively attached
himself to the first flock of birds he
encountered after escaping from cap-
tivity ; or he realised that he was a
comparatively small bird in a cruel, pre-
datory world and wisely “went with the
strength."
5jJ
“Myall”: At the Coffs Harbor
(N.S.W.) subnormal-children’s school a
pet budgerigar is helping backward
children to learn to speak properly. A
speech-therapy teacher has been using
the bird in her classes since the-school
opened some months ago. Handicapped
children try to teach the bird to talk and
unconsciously improve their own speech.
Very few of the children could speak
correctly when the class was first formed,
but now all of them can pronounce
words quite clearly, and several are able
to put sentences together.
* * * •
“Amdee”: Broadcasting-stations need
never lack announcers for the women's
sessions. North Queensland mackerel-
fishermen qualifying nicely for that posi-
tion since the extensive use of two-way
radio on fishing-boats. When an after-
noon’s trailing is over and the boat is
being cleaned and washed-down, some
crew-member is sure to be below and,
with the motors stopped, can be heard
calling-up a fellow-fisherman on a distant
reef. The conversation —on how the fish
are biting, where schools of mackerel are
likely to be next day, the state of the
weather, etc. —is conducted with the
greatest decorum, yet a few moments
before some trivial incident might have
occurred on deck causing all those con-
cerned to blister the paint with their
opinions,
* * * *
“Bloodwood": Tell “Ruminant” (B.
8/10/’5B) that buffaloes appear to spread
towards the east because it is from that
direction that the mating-wind blows.
In North Queensland goats follow the
same instinct. About September even




tame goats, particularly does, are likely
to go walkabout, and they go only into
the trade-winds east, south-east, or
north-east. With buffaloes, the male
travels farthest. Robert Gray, in his
book Reminiscences of India and
North Queensland, mentions a
buffalo being yarded with station
cattle at, 1 think, Fairlight, near
Hughenden. That would be 80 or 90
years ago. Most of those stray buffs,
travel east until they reach the top of
the range about» Dotswood, behind
Townsville. Several old bulls have
turned-up there over the years. A young
bull was shot 50 miles north of Hughen-
den a few years ago, and another at
Richmond. They were slowly heading
east. When William Landsborough was
coming up the Flinders in March, 1862,
his party followed the tracks of what
appeared to have been a young beast
for many miles. The country had not
been stocked with cattle then. I’d say
those tracks were made by a young buff.
If I am correct, then buffaloes were in
the North nearly 100 years ago.
* * * *
“Windy”: Motor-bikes and jeeps have
widely replaced the patient, jogging
stock-horse in the outback. The tireless
sheep- or cattle-dog no longer trots be-
hind the nag. It rides on a specially
built seat on the bike, or sits, lolling-
tongued and grinning, beside the driver
of the jeep. Mechanisation has speeded-
up mustering in open country and cut-
“ Charley! Where are you, Charley ?”
down time riding fences. Sheep that
knock-up can be lifted and slung across
the body of the bike or thrown in the
back of the vehicle. The stockman can
snatch an extra forty-winks, as he doesn’t
have to go and catch the horse and
saddle-up. But somehow it doesn’t seem
right to me. I can’t see how you could
swim a bike across a swollen stream
with the rider hanging on to the exhaust.
* * * *
“Bagot”: Far-north pedal-radios have
meant happier and safer lives for isolated
station-dwellers. But one of their snags
came to light in a Westralian divorce-
case when an aggrieved petitioner claimed
the frequent intimate chit-chat over the
air between his spouse and the co-re.
had been common gossip in a district of
many thousand square-miles.
'T'he supposed experienced handy-
■*- man engaged to build a hen-house had
downed-tools and was about to murder
a blue-tongued lizard when I halted him
with a heated protest. “You’ll flamin’
well know it if the thing bites yer,” he
growled. To stoush the libel, I grabbed
Biuey and showed him the total absence
of te’eth, and the crushing plates that are
far better than any patent killers for
slugs and snails. He wasn’t convinced —
the old bush-legend of Bluey’s poisonous
teeth is hard to kill. —“Fowlhouse Liz.”
* * * *
“R.8.L.”: Koalas are far more com-
mon than “Manamoi” thinks (B.
15/10/’5B). He denies their existence in
South Oss; wrong —there are several
hundred (at least 500) in Flinders Chase
on Kangaroo Island, and they were in
good form as recently as a month ago.
By a sheer miracle they escaped the
severe bushfires which swept the Chase
last year. There are quite a number
also at Abercrombie in central N.S.W.;
they have been heard, and one was found
killed on the road recently within two
miles of Glen Innes.
“Eureka”: A Wellington (N.Z.) man
has bought a hearse from an undertaker
and intends taking a holiday in it in
the South Island. Some years ago a
Bega (N.S.W.) farmer bought a horse-
drawn hearse when the undertaker
shouted himself a modern motor-hearse.
The farmer removed the top of the
hearse and used it on his farm as a duck-
house ; the rest of the vehicle was used
as a wagonette, often for taking pigs and
poddy-calves to the saleyards. Settlers
along the road could recognise this
farmer’s vehicle by the sound ; it had a
peculiar rumble . . .
* * # *
“E. & O. E.”: Australia has offered a
large consignment of wheat to India
under the Colombo Plan, and I have
wondered how much use it would prove
to such a rice-eating community. We
ourselves think wheat the only grain with
which it is possible to make bread;
yet in Britain up to the end of the 17th
century a mixture of rye and wheat called
maslin was the standard breadmaking
flour. Even as late as the 19th century
Cobbett considered “a quarter of barley
and quarter of rye to half of wheat makes
bread that I could be very content to
live upon all my life.”
* * * *
“Erubian”: Queensland is now insist-
ing that crocodile-lovers wanting to keep
them as pets must take out a licence.
Presumably roaming crocs, will hence-
forth carry a tail-light and number-plate.
There’s a story of a businessman in one
North Queensland town who sprawled
over one of the tribe which was ambling
along the post-office veranda —it was
later recognised as having gone a.w.l.
from its owner's abode. A big croc, on
one occasion held-up the “sugar express”
between Mossman and Port Douglas by
taking a nap across the narrow-gauge
line, but he was a rover who hadn’t tasted
captivity. Whether the new regulation
will apply to young crocs, hatched out
from eggs while in transit I don’t know,
but I recall an incident at the Federal
Hotel on Thursday Island one night when
a lodger awoke to the sound of strange
noises in his bedroom and discovered
that a visiting professor of anatomy,
sharing the room, had incautiously left
unguarded a receptacle in which he was
carrying some eggs from Darwin. They’d
popped-out at birth-time and were
scrambling around the floor.
THE SANDPIPER
[This little narrative was collected from a
full-blood aboriginal woman at the native
settlement of Taree, N.S.W. —R.R.]
When we were children we used to gather
gippuns,
they’re like wild strawberries that grow
in the bush,
and always we’d hear this sorrowful,
wandering call
travelling away through the scrub by
the edge of the sea.
Running along the sand was a little bird,
stopping and running again at the edge
of the waves
with a sorrowful call in the wind and
roar of the sea.
I remember asking my mother about that
bird,
and she told us how it had lost its little
one.
It might have been a thousand years
since that woman,
whose spirit is now a bird, first lost
her son.
It’s a summery bird, it comes in the
summer-time.
My mother, she told us the story, but
somehow it’s gone
with the time we gathered the gippuns
in the bush.
When you’re going along the beach
you’ll see that bird.
It will run right up and have a look at
you.
She’s in trouble. You see, she makes that
sorrowful call.
She’s crying and searching still for her
little one.
n.s.w.
ROLAND ROBINSON.


pj'Oß some time Mrs. Colin Thompson
* has been considered the best woman
show-rider at rodeos in Australia, but
it looks as if she could become the best of
both sexes. At the October rodeo in the
Warwick (S.Q.) camp-draft competition
there were 107 entries, and Mrs. Thomp-
son won the Risdon Cup against all-
comers. The first decision was a tie
between the lady and N. Murphy, but in
a “play-off” Mrs. Thompson, riding
Murphy’s mare (a winner in last year’s
Risdon Cup), beat her opponent by two
points. The winning two points were
given for “best horse work.” —“Kesem.”
* * * *
“Hist”: Tell “Sebak” (B. 22/10/’5B)
that the two old gents of Such’s cartoon
were undoubtedly scientists absorbed in
the problem of an exceptionaLspecimen.
They were certainly aware of the
generalisation that - moths rest with their
wings folded alongside while butterflies
hold theirs aloft, but they also knew
that there are exceptions to that rule —
and to the popular belief that all butter-
flies fly by day and moths by night.- The
shape of the “feelers” (antennae) is a
rather more reliable guide. Scientifically,
butterflies are classed as Rhopalocera
(clubbed horns), meaning that their
antennae have a thickening at the tip,
whereas those of moths ( Heterocera —
various horns) take various forms. Un-
fortunately, while all butterflies do have
clubbed horns, so also do a few moths.
There is another structural difference
between them: moths have a sort of
hook-and-eye arrangement which in flight
attaches the front edge of the hind-wing
to the trailing-edge of the forewing.
Only two species of butterflies are known
to have this gadget—the frenulum.
* * * *
“Van”: Showing me his new fishpond,
he indicated that somewhere in the
murky depths were a couple of golden
beauties. “And I also put a couple of
tortoise in,” he said, and grunted with
satisfaction as one flat, small head
showed itself. I saw two more behind
it, and told him so. “Can’t be,” he
muttered, though I could see he was
pleased at the advent of a new arrival;
“I only put two in here.” He grabbed
at the one nearest him and caught it by
the back of the neck. Then he hoisted
it out, and I’ve never seen a man look
more astonished —at seeing a yard of
black-snake dangling from his fingers!
I’m happy to say that in his excitement
he heaved it into some shrubbery, where
it escaped—a reprieve deserved for having
brightened things up a bit.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Students interested in the
production of new species, or species in
the making, might be ftble to make some-
thing of the black cockatoos. The three
Australian species—the yellow-tailed of
the eastern States, and the red-tailed and
white-tailed of W.A7 —all belong to the
same genus, Calyptorhynchus; the two
W.A. species, at least, have much the
same feeding-habits—kernels and nectar,
and grubs or borers —and it’s hard to
“ Snapper-fillets are goin' to be plentiful today."
figure out a reason for the different
coloring to the under-tail feathers, or
why the species don’t intermix. In W.A.
each has its own territory, the white-
tailed keeping more to the south-west
corner, the red-tailed being more
numerous inland and through the wheat-
belt ; and this naturally provides some
differences in diet. It also makes for
slightly different habits. The white-
tailed move around in flocks over wide
areas, whereas the red-tailed will often
stay, in larger flocks numbering several
hundreds, around a rock-outcrop in the
wheatbelt, or spend their time between
two or three neighboring outcrops. But
apart from these points their habits are
similar enough to raise the question: Are
they two developments of one original
species ?-
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Agree with “Cisti-
cola” that the glossary to the Penguin
Book of Australian Verse could be
improved on (B. 15/10/’5B), but so could
“C.’s” corrections (so, I suppose, could
mine). The grass-tree grows considerably
higher than 12ft.—I’ve seen one the best
part of 20ft., excluding the flower-stem;
its botanical name, Xanthorrhcea, derives
from the yellow gum it exudes; and
surely it’s worth mentioning thaf it’s
related to the lily. The kurrajong is so
valued in the desert because of the
water-storing properties of its roots that
it was illegal to destroy these trees along
the Trans-line —probably still is. The
wattle-bird is so called because of the
fleshy lobes hanging behind the eyes—
at least the red wattle-bird’s do. The
little wattle-bird hasn’t any wattles, but
having been proved to belong to the same
genus (. Anthochcera ) it naturally inherited
the name.
* * * *
'T'hey were clearing the house-sites.
Logs and stumps were already bored,
and the group-foreman again briefed the
new settlers on the dangers attached to
careless handling of gelignite and
detonators. He had given demonstrations
of their deadly power and how they
should be handled, but this was the first
time the men would be using them them-
selves. He counted 10 detonators into
each man’s hands and told them to get
into it. Later, Bert Simcock came bound-
ing across the clearing, waving his axe
and shouting ifor the foreman as he
scrambled over fallen logs and tangled
branches. Just as he yelled “I’ve lost two
detonators!” he tripped over a branch
and gashed his leg with his axe-blade.
Two men were detailed to carry him back
to camp about a mile away. Needing a
spell, they put him down witli his back
to a log, gave him a cigarette and
straightened his legs out. It was then that
one of the stretcherbearers pointed to the
upturned soles of the injured man’s boots.
Firmly wedged between the rows of heavy
sprigs were the two little copper cylinders.
They both looked back along the stony
track and shuddered. —“Wylie.”


DAVIS, ROTHWELL & CO.
(Incorporating Headlam, Hewson & Co.)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange .)
193 Summer Street, Orange.
Orange 4054
Telegraphic and Cable Address, “BETEP,” Sydney.
MULLENS & CO.
A. H. URQUHART, M. D. PASSMORE, K. W. A. BRIDGES
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
25 O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
I
Telephone
WBl7l (3 lines)
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
Business, Robbery, Etc.
AN EXCRUCIATING WEEK
The Papuan Oil-search Conundrum
An Monday, as The Bul-
letin went to press, the
Australian sharemarkets were
waiting final word about the
withdrawal of the prospectus by
Papuan Oil Search, Ltd., which
had been sponsored by Oil
Search, Ltd., with the object
of acquiring a 4H p.c. interest
in, the assets of Australasian
Petroleum Co., Ltd., and
Islands Exploration Co., Ltd.
Or, more specifically, a 41y
p.c. interest in the recent oil-
strike at Puri, in Papua, and
all the uncertain potential,
small or big, in it and the sur-
rounding Western Papuan con-
cession area, including the gas-
wells at Barikewa and else-
where.
Providentially, almost, the
prospectus was not issued on
Friday, November 7, as
intended, and all sorts of com-
plications and embarrassments
have been avoided.
Papuan Oil Search, Ltd.
(P. 0.5.), was to have offered
20,000,000 ss. shares, and
there are some extraordinary
aspects of the whole situation.
Before the “Strike”^
To begin with, the flotation
of P.O.S. was conceived before
there were any developments
from the acidising of the
7460-7508 ft. zone in the Puri
well, which less than a fort-
night ago started flowing at
the rate of 1000 barrels a day
(subsequently showing water in
the oil).
On the news of the oil-flow
on October 31, the price of
Oil Search shares jumped from
2s. lid. to arouhd par (55.),
then leaped to 265., and on
Monday settled-down around
11s. 6d.
The whole initial conception
of the flotation of P.O.S. was
based on three principal facts,
namely:
{a) The ss. shares of Oil
Search were below par, and in
the absence of an oil-strike
were likely to remain so, mak-
ing it impossible for Oil Search
itself to raise new money
(because of its already large
capital and comparatively
small interest in the Papuan
concession), though its direc-
tors were determined that
activity in Papua would not
cease even if they had to “go
it alone”; and,
(b) In the absence of excep-
tionally attractive develop-
ments in Papua, Vacuum Oil
and British Petroleum had
decided to suspend financing
the search for oil at the con-
clusion of the current drilling-
programme after spending, with
Oil Search, over £32 million ;
furthermore,
(c) Vacuum and BP had
agreed in principle to passing-
oyer a 40 p.c. interest in the
Papuan enterprise to a new co.
sponsored by Oil Search, Ltd.,
provided it raised the necessary
finance to continue the search.
The Rush of Events
The position now is that
such has been the speed of
events over the past 10 days
that Oil Search shares have
been well above par, and now
Vacuum and BP have stated
that they will continue the oil-
search in Papua, but will dis-
cuss with Oil Search the possi-
bility of arranging future
finance so that the Australian
public may take a greater
part in the project through Oil
Search, Ltd.
Subject to this qualification,
Oil Search, Ltd., would appear
to be left with a 10 p.c.
interest in the operating cos.,
while P.O.S. will be bypassed.
At no time in Australian
sharemarket history has there
been such an excruciating
combination of doubts and
possibilities attached to any
proposed public - company
flotation where the share-
market valuation runs into
such a huge sum, and in
respect of which £32 million
has already been spent.
There are 14,120,576 shares
in Oil Search, and they repre-
sent a 10 p.c. interest in the
Papuan venture. At, say, a
market valuation of 10s. a
share, the 10 p.c. interest
becomes worth £7 million, and
the whole venture £7O million
—that is, on the purely specu-
lative market valuation of, say,
10s. per Oil Search share.
But the true value of the
Puri well and its attached pos-
sibilities will take a consider-
able time to prove. Encourag-
ing to Australia as a whole has
been the decision of BP and
Vacuum to continue to finance
the search, even though it
means a disappointment to
those who expected to cash-in,
through the flotation of
Papuan Oil Search, Ltd., on a
better basis than through Oil
Search, Ltd., itself.
Oil in Papua
[From L. Owen]
TThe news that a test on Puri
A No. 1 well, in Western
Papua, over the 7460-7508 ft.
interval produced gas at the
rate of above three-million
cubic-feet dstily was good ; but
much more important was the
fact that it contained 70 barrels
of condensate. As its napne
implies, “condensate” consists
of vapors which condense into
liquids with lowering tempera-
ture. The coating of water
which forms on a cold glass
in a warm room is a conden-
sate, but the term is popularly
restricted to petroleum vapors.
It is usual to classify oil-
field gases into three groups!
“Dry" gas is defined as con-
taining less than 0.1 U.S.
gallons of petroleum liquid
vapors per 1000 cubic-feet of
gas ; “lean” gas contains from
0.1 to 0.3 gallons; and “wet”
gas holds 0.3 or more gallons.
Seventy gallons of condensate
in three-million cubic-feet of
gas is equivalent to 0.98 gallons
per 1000 c.-f., so that the Puri
gas is well up in • the “wet”
range.
When a gas of such richness
is struck, the prospects that it


m
1
f
r^
pr :
pr
Confidence that Australia will continue to expand in
industrial, pastoral and commercial growth is the dominant
theme in any survey of this country’s developmental prospects.
A.N.Z. Bank, with a record of service which dates back
over / 120 years, is proud of the part it has played in
Australia’s development and looks forward to continuing
to give the finest in banking service to the people of this
growing land.
A-N-Z
ANZ507.2458
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
forms the “cap” of an oil
“pool” are favorable, and the
very acceptable news that the
well “is flowing 1000 barrels
[one barrel equals 35 Imperial
or 42 U.S. gallons] a day of
crude oil,” and that the flow
was increasing, was not sur-
prising. (This figure was later
reported by Canberra to have
increased to 1500 barrels.)
Puri No. 1 well was spudded-
in (at approximately lat.
7°os’S; long. 144°55’E) on
October 29, 1957, and I dealt,
in these pages, with the pros-
pects of the area in which it
was being drilled (B. 7/57’58),
when the latest published depth
was 5980 ft. and before any
trace of oil or gas had been
reported.
In view of the accuracy of
the forecasts I then made, I
cannot resist repeating a few
extracts:
The forward programme com-
prises the completion of the wells
now drilling at Barikewa and Puri,
and 1 of the well to be sunk on loca-
tion Kuru 3, all to conclusive
depths.
All the wells included in the cur-
rent programme are located on a
line running west-east very slightly
below the 7°S. parallel of latitude,
and extending, from just west of
long. 144°E. to long. 145°E. Drill-
ing-results have proved the existence
of a zone (or zones) of porous and
permeable beds, charged with high-
pressure “wet” gas underlying this
line. Owing to the nature of the
gas the presence of oil, also, is
probable
From an original permit-area of
9944 square-miles, as a result of
intensive aerial and ground geolo-
gical, geophysical and topographical
surveys, extending over 16,000
square-miles, a block of roughly 70
miles by 15 miles —or, say, 1000
square-miles—has been culled.
That this culling has taken-up 20
years of expert specialist endeavor,
at a cost of £3O million, is largely
beside the point.' What matters is
that this valuable result has been
attained in spite of the enormous
difficulties which none unfamiliar
with the Papuan hinterland can
appreciate....
Within that limited area, it is
my considered opinion that the
prospects of commercial success, to
properly conducted and controlled
exploratory and development work,
are as bright as those of any un-
proved territory in the Southern
Hemisphere.
Problems.
Very little specific data have been
released with reference to the
physical characteristics of the gas-
bodies encountered in the Papuan
wells, and, apart from the descrip-
tion of the gas as “wet,” no chemi-
cal analyses have been made avail-
able to the public. There can be
no doubt, however, that the gas
struck in the Western Papuan Basin
has undergone substantial migration
from its source-bed.
A major problem is to discover
whether this migration occurred up
approximately vertical planes or
whether the direction of travel
included considerable lateral com-
ponents.
Clues for the solution of these
questions are to be found, for
instance, in changes in gas com-
position from point to point, in
variations in the concentration and
composition of brines, and in the
chemical and physical characteris-
tics of the strata enclosing them.
Above all, no effort should be
spared to obtain a comprehensive
and true understanding of the
geological history of the region.
Today, and in the light of
the latest development, there
is not a word of the extract
quoted above that I -would
wish to change. Throughout
Australasia, the problem of oil-
finding has long ago passed out
of the purely structural sphere
and has become largely a
chemical one. When that fact
is realised, we shall be much
nearer to striking oil without
dependence on such “miracles”
as the unfortunate and unan-
ticipated piercing of a non-
commercial “pool” at Rough
Range (W.A.).
The present flow of oil in
the Puri well followed the
acidising of the 7460-7508 ft.
zone from which some “wet”
gas had already been recovered,
and Australasian Petroleum,
quite rightly, has advised
caution with reference to initial
(the italics are mine) flows of
mixtures of crude oil and con-
centrate amounting to around
1500 barrels, which in a loca-
tion as remote as Puri, cannot
be regarded as commercial.
Personally, I have always
doubted the wisdom of stop-
ping Puri at 10,100 ft. at the
beginning of August last “in a
thick mudstone series of no oil-
potential interest.”
The limestone from which
the Puri well has obtained


J. T. HARRY & DIXON
(Eric E. Dixon, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
1 1 3 Pitt St.,
Sydney
Telephone: BL 1987
Tel. Add.: “Harry Stock Exchange,” Sydney
Q
The longest established hire-purchase
company in Australia
Registered First Mortgage
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6 or 10 years 7%
4 years 6Va% 2 years s'/2%
Short Term Stock also available from
3 months at 3Vk%
Assets exceed £47,000,000
Application Forms and Prospectus
O Any A.G.C. Branch • Your Stockbroker
• Bank of New South Wales at any Branch
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide • Perth
Hobart
A copy of the prospectus covering this issue of
£2,500,000 has been lodged with the Registrar-General,
Sydney.
72N
flow-oil is of Miocene age, and
all shows of oil or gas obtained
within the Papuan Miocene, up
to the present, have exhibited
features imposed by long-
distance migration. The Puri
oil has been described as “very
high grade,” which. indicates
that it also is migrated
petroleum. It is an obvious
deduction that the best hopes
of commercial oil in Papua
lie below the Miocene. It
is obvious, also, as is being
recognised even in the U.S.A.
at long last, that exploration
must be directed towards strati-
graphic-type traps rather than
to the text-book ideals of anti-
cline and dome which have
been so disappointingly tested
on the Australian mainland.
I would point out that the
conjunction of applied
chemistry and applied geology
is not new. Recently it has
been used with considerable
success in revealing the true
structure of metamorphosed
sediments, and I applied it, as
far back as the 1920’5, in
tracing the routes followed by
migrating oil.
Loan Success
'T'he cash portion of the
current Commonwealth
loan has been the greatest
success for over four years.
The £3O-million loan has been
oversubscribed by £6.8 million,
and £8.5 million more has been
subscribed in the new special
bonds, the merits of which
were described in B. 22/10/’5B.
Since the loan opened, £45.3
million has been received in
cash for all types of securities.
“Special” bonds are still
available, and may also be
taken-out in the big conversion
operation which closes on
November 15.
Mort’s Dock
VX7ith the closing-down of
’ * Mort’s Dock today (12th)
the trade-unionists employed
on this historic Sydney dock-
yard and engineering-works
have loafed themselves out of
a job. Loaf, strikes and wage-
extortion have been notorious
at Mort’s for many years.
It is now proposed to call a
meeting of shareholders to
approve the winding-up of the
company.
The full story of Mort’s
difficulties has yet to be told,
and in this respect the manage-
ment in .the past has been
reticent, accumulated losses
showing-up (in 1956) only
after several years of apparent
profit-earning.
The announcement of the
closing-down and proposed
winding-up has been equally
unexpected and shocking to
the sharemarket * and many
questions are likely to be asked
at the annual meeting.
The curious thing is that
docking and ship-servicing
facilities are scarce in Sydney.
A Sydney shipping company
recently seeking quotes for
repair- work on vessels found
Cockatoo Dock too busy even
to tender for the work.
The closing-down of Mort’s
Dock will leave a definite gap
on the Sydney waterfront.
Maoriland Finance
Wellington, November 4.
A scrap-steel mill producing
40,000 to 50,000 tons of
steel a year is to be set-up and
run by a private company in
New Zealand.
Extensive research is to be
carried out before a firm deci-
sion is made on the establish-
ment of a major steel-industry
based on ironsands.
The merchant-bar scrap-mill,
which will probably be built
either at Auckland or Petone,
is expected to save about
£1,500,000 a year in overseas
exchange; x
Only those types of steel
for which there is a reasonably
large demand are to be pro-
duced by the scrap-mill, though
its capacity will take into
account the need to supply an
expanding market.
The Government has under-
taken to ensure that the mill is
not exposed to dumping.
The co. will be organised by
Fletcher Holdings, Ltd., and
Industrial Metals, Ltd., but the
Government has expressed the
hope that other interests will
be associated with the venture.
Shares will be available to the
public.
“The merchant-bar mill will
not affect the plans for a pos-
sible major iron - and - steel
industry,” said the Minister of
Industries and Commerce, Mr.
Holloway. “It is a separate
venture which does not pre-
judge the ownership, control,
economic or any other aspect
of the long-term scheme. If,
however, the programme of
research and investigation into
the long-term scheme requires
it, the mill may be asked to
make any of its facilities avail-
able to help in such a pro-
gramme.”
Overseas Exchange
A deficit of £30,100,000 was
recorded in N.Z.’s over-
seas exchange transactions for
the year ended September 30,
1958, compared with a deficit
of £4 million for the 1957 Sep-
tember year and a deficit of
,£3,600,000 in the September
year, 1956.
The main causes of this de-
teriaration of £26 million com-
pared with 1956-57 were a fall
in export income of approxi-
mately 9 p.c. and increased
payments of nearly 5 p.c.
Compared with 1956-57,
total receipts decreased by
£10,200,000. Export receipts
fell by £26,600,000. Butter
receipts fell by £2 million,
while cheese receipts were
approximately at the 1956-57
level; Meat receipts increased
by approximately £3,700,000
because of large sales of beef
to'the United States. A sub-
stantial fall of a little more
than £25 million in wool
reflects the lower prices
obtained during the 1957-58
season:
Other receipts rose by
£16,400,000 to £61,600,000, h
slightly lower inflow on current


account being more than offset
by greater capital-receipts.
Import-control Effects
'T'he control established on
January 1 is beginning to
have its effects on the flow
oHmports into New Zealand.
During the first six months
the effect of the control was
obscured by the fact that
excess licences were in exist-
ence.
The Government provided
£l7 million over and above the
import-schedule to pay for
these excess imports. This
allowed the goods to be
released and come into the
country. Lip to the end of
June last the level of private
imports was very similar to
at P rev i°us year,
, Since June, however, there
has been a considerable change,
and during the past three
months imports have averaged
less than £l9 million a month,
This trend is not expected to
vary considerably between
now and the.end of the year.
September saw the first
drawing of £3,100,000 from
the Australian loan, and during
that month the deficiency in
the balance-of-payments was
£8 million, compared with
£10.4 million during the corres-
ponding month last year.
As the deficiency of 1957
was conspicuously heavy during
the final three months qf that
year, a continued improve-
ment between now and the end
of December is expected.
Drilling for Oil
■T|EEP-DRILLING for oil will
start in the Taranaki area
in January and on the east coast
about six months later.
British Petroleum and the
Shell Co. have a 50-50 interest
over and above the Todd
Group'interest in exploration
in Taranaki and on the east
coast. Shell is managing the
Taranaki venture and BP the
east-coast search.
“We are spending a good
deal of money on oil-explora-
tion in N.Z., and are very
hopeful of success,” said the
chairman of the British Petro-
leum Co., Sir Neville Gass,
who has been on a visit to
this country.
DULY AND HANSFORD LTD.
CHAIRMANS ADDRESS
Twenty-third Ordinary General Meeting
The Chairman of Duly and Hansford Ltd. (Mr. A. Duly) will give the following review of the
Company’s activities at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on November 26, 1958.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
It is with considerable pleasure
that the Directors present the
Annual Report, supported by the
Balance Sheet, Profit and Loss
Account and Auditor’s Report.
Notwithstanding the difficulties
and fluctuating problems experi-
enced throughout the Automotive
and Engineering Industries, the
year’s results are considered to be
most satisfactory.
All departments of the plant have
shown increased efficiency which
has, to some extent, offset the
increased costs introduced as the
result of wage adjustments and raw
material price increases.
Turnover shows a further increase
when compared with last year’s
record figures, and it is of interest
to note that trading for the current
year shows a further increase over
a similar period last year.
Shareholders must' view, with
satisfaction, the prestige the Com-
pany has earned and the position it
holds as a major supplier of com-
ponents for the manufacture of
motor vehicles, which is rapidly
becoming a great industry in this
country.
Our industry is one of
or mass production in a wide range
of products and the plant used is
of specialised nature, largely auto-
matic in operation, and similar to
that in use in the great factories
overseas. Ifc-is very costly to pur-
chase, but necessary to place our
Company on a competitive basis
with manufacturers in other
countries.
We are continuing the policy of
making contact with overseas manu-
facturers and at the moment three
members of our Engineering Execu-
tive are investigating plants in the
United Kingdom, Germany, United
States of America and Canada. In
this way we keep abreast of the
times and in the forefront of
the Automotive and Engineering
Industry.
With the need for Australian
Industries to export products to
other countries, we are pleased to
say that for several years we have
traded on a substantial basis with
certain markets and have customers
in nine countries overseas.
We also have completed negotia-
tions to combine with another large
manufacturer of automotive parts
to test markets in Canada and the
United States, as well as other
markets not previously approached.
During the year we completed a
most satisfactory Consulting and
Licensing Agreement with Thomp-
son Products, Inc., of Cleveland,
Ohio, U.S.A. Thompson Products,
Inc., are the leading Automotive
Engine Valve manufacturers in the
world and through their research
laboratories have introduced into
the Automotive Industry sixteen of
the Jast twenty-one special valve
steels, which are covered by patent
rights and are available to this
Company under terms of the
Consulting Agreement.
The Agreement provides many
advantages, particularly annual
visits by our personnel to the
American plants. The Agreement is
of a reciprocal nature, which illus-
trates the recognition accorded by
Thompson Products, Inc., to this
Company as a manufacturer of
high-quality Automotive Engine
Valves.
A review of principal items in the
Accounts is'now presented for your
information.
NET PROFIT.
The profit for the year was
£298,270, against that for last year
£294,389, the increase being £3BBl.
The Amount charged for Deprecia-
tion was £82,963, against last year’s
total of £54,140. 'Provision for
Taxation has been increased by
£3,000 from £116,000 to £119,000.
From the remaining profit of
£179,270, the Directors recommend
the payment of a final dividend at
the rate of 10% per annum, amount-
ing to £65,430 which, with the
interim dividend paid in July, makes
a total dividend of £117,774, against
the amount paid last year of
£104,688. The remaining profit of
£61,278, after transfer to Special
Reserve of £2lB, will be added to
the accumulated profits, making the
total amount carried forward
£250,795.
RESERVES.
The total reserves shown in the
Balance Sheet amount to £554,734
after giving effect to appropriations
recommended by the Directors, and
with the exception of Unappro-
priated Profits, have not been drawn
upon during the year.
SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS.
The Shareholders’ Funds now
total £1,863,328 (last year
£1,540,113), an increase of
£323,215.
LAND AND BUILDINGS.—
£232,063 (last year £214,204), addi-
tions for the year £17,859.
The last valuation made by the
Valuer-General in August, 1955,
£287,550; since then additions at
cost amounting to £49,060 have
been made, giving a total of
£336,610. As Industrial Properties
have increased in values over the
past three years present-day values
could be considerably in -advance
of this figure.
PLANT AND MACHINERY.—
£546,512 (last year £500,397).
After making provision for
Depreciation for the whole plant
the Balapce Sheet discloses a net
increase of £46,115 after adjusting
the liability under Hire Purchase of
£14,619, but the gross capital cost
of New Plant installed during the
year is £97,973.
DEPRECIATION—£B2,963 (last
year £54,140).
All plant and machinery has been
maintained 'in first-class condition
throughout the year. Adequate pro-
vision for Depreciation over the
whole Plant has been made, and the
increase of £28,823 is in keeping
with the increased rates approved
by the Taxation Authorities.
TAXATION. —£119,000 (last year
£116,000). Increase of £3,000.
SUNDRY DEBTORS AND BILLS
RECEIVABLE. —£228,685 (last year
£217,246).
All accounts are in excellent
order.
STOCK INVENTORY.—£I,IB2,OI9
(last year £1,100,772).
The increase of £81,247 in this
asset is due to increase in produc-
tion resulting from increased sales
demand, to service the needs of old
and new customers; extension of
our existing range of products; and
increased stocks of raw material.
All stocks have been valued at the
lowest of cost, replacement or
market selling value, and are in the
opinion of your Directors, adequate
for the continued management of
this Company.
FINANCIAL REVIEW.
It is with pleasure that I direct
your attention to the Company’s
Balance Sheet. The Current Assets
which now total £1,423,422, show
an increase over that of last year
of £89,616, whilst the liabilities and
Provisions have been reduced by an
amount of £166,656 after appro-
priating an amount of £13,086
additional provision for dividend.
T-he resultant effect of these varia-
tions increases the Working Capital,
when compared with last year, hy
an amount of £256,272 to an
amount of £978,266. The Fixed
Asr ts also show an increase of
£67,296, after the substantially
increased provision for depreciation,
previously mentioned in the
accounts. These Fixed Assets now
stand at £810,062.
The total of Working Capital,
Fixed Assets and Goodwill is
£1,863,328.
INCREASE IN CAPITAL.
In January of this year your
Directors recommended that the
Company’s ' paid-up capital be
increased by an issue of 261,719
Ordinary Shares at par. The pur-
pose of the issue was to provide
additional working capital and
funds for further expansion. The
effect of this movement in the
Balance Sheet is to increase the
issued ordinary capital, of the
Company from £1,046,875 to
£1,308,594.
Your Directors are confident of
the future of your Company and
are constantly examining the best
methods of expansion and develop-
ment in our industry.
To the members of our Staff I
express, the appreciation of our
Board for the loyalty and support
they have shown throughout the
year.
To all the Company’s customers
we express our thanks for their
continued support.
A. DULY.
Chairman of Directors.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Norman Lindsay’s Etchings
Lindsay has always
said that the lower studio
at Spring Wood where he did
his etchings was “built over a
hole in hell”; and some idea of
the strenuous hours' he spent
down there, shut in a sort of
sandstone jail on a plateau
above the rocky gully, can be
gained from the fascinating
account of his technique which
he prints in the catalogue of
his exhibition of etchings open-
ing today (Wednesday) at
David Jones’ Gallery, Sydney.
First, he says, you have to
clean the copper-plate with
caustic-soda and diluted nitric-
acid. Then you make the
-etching-ground on the plate by
rubbing melted bitumen over
it. This must be “perfectly
smooth.” Then you trace the
design onto the ground through
tissue-paper ; and then you
needle it in :
As the hand must never touch
the ground, a support is placed
across the plate for the hand. It
a very delicate technique is neces-
sary it must be drawn under a
magnifying-glass of about a four-
inch focus. This enforces an
extremely cramped posture on the
etcher while working on the plate.
Then comes the actual pro-
cess of etching the copper,
which is done by placing the
plate in a solution of diluted
nitric-acid, “which bites only
into the parts of the copper
exposed by the needling.” You
etch the grey tones first, then,
by a series of re-etchings, add
the half-tones and the blacks:
While it is in the acid it is care-
fully timed by the etcher, and this
is the most anxious problem he has
to face. If he miscalculates he may
either under-etch or over-etch the
passage in the acid and thereby
ruin the result of a week or more
of careful work in needling the
design.
Even then, when the artist
has finished discarding,
Norman Lindsay says, two
plates for every one he accepted
as -worth while—the labor of
craftsmanship goes on. There
is the printing to be done. And
that, so Jane Glad (his
daughter) reminds us in the
catalogue, is where Rose Lind-
say (his wife) came in. Infinite
care had to be taken to ensure
that every plate printed in each
edition was of the same quality
as the first.
At the most, 55 prints were
taken from each plate —often
fewer—and then the plate was
scored across, “cancelled,”
never to be printed from again
. . . which, to a mere layman,
always seems tragic, though it
makes the prints rarities and
ensures the very highest
standard. Some of these can-
celled plates are in the Mitchell
Library.
Every etching Norman Lind-
say has ever published, exclud-
ing thoSfe done as illustrations
for books, is shown in this
exhibition, and they make the
staggering total of 200 etch-
ings ; enough for a life’s work
for another artist, but only a
fraction, of course, of Norman
Lindsay’s astronomical output
in other mediums. Prints of
about 80 of these, sometimes
only two or three, sometimes
more, are for sale ; the editions
of the others sold-out years
ago.
As to the quality of the etch-
ings, I really don’t think any-
one in the whole history of art
—not Rembrandt with his iron-
firm little ~ portraits ; not
Klinger with his touch of
fantasy ; not Anders Zorn with
his vividness of characterisa-
tion and the pastoral charm
of his nudes; not D. Y.
Cameron with his delicate tonal
effects in landscape ever
carried the potentialities of this
medium so far as Norman
Lindsay. In the beauty of his
line, firm, delicate and unfalter-
ing, in the richness of his
decoration, in the blaze of light
he so mysteriously infuses into
these pieces of paper printed
from a copper-plate, in the
massing and dramatisation of
his figures and in the use of
this most difficult medium to
express—in fantasy, in lyricism,
in comedy and in tragedy—an
imaginative concept of life, he
surely stands alone.
It seems idle, among such an
array of treasures, to try to
pick your way. But some of
the small etchings are slight
enough ; and some do stand out
magnificently.
The whole show is like a
moonlit garden. HeLe and
there may be only the glimmer
of a single leaf, but clear and
compelling shapes manifest
themselves all -along the way:
among the - nudes, the famous
“Desire,” with the sphinx and
the woman melting together in
a fluidity of line only to be
matched in a Rodin sculpture;
among the moonlit-garden
scenes that somehow set the
keynote for the whole, “The
Death of Pierrot,” “Moon-
light’s Piper” and, where the
girl dances in the moonlight to
her retinue of rabbits, “The
Audience”; among the pirate-
scenes, “Spoil”; among the
witty society-pieces, “Don
Juan’s Garden”; among the
river-picnics, “The Happy
Barge” ; among the technical
triumphs of scenes' swarming
with figures, the demons of
“Powers of Earth” or the
interpretation of Beethoven’s
Eighth Symphony, “Allegro
where the huge gods
thump through the sky over
the earth’s whirling multitudes ;
among the blazing light-effects,
“Enter the Magicians” with
its camels and elephants and
negroes towering in the back-
ground and the mystical
diamond in the centre; and,
loveliest of all, perhaps because
it combines all the elements of
the other etchings—nudes,
moonlight, fantasy, a tragic
sense of character and an un-
daunted tribute to the arts —
the “C Sharp Minor Quartet,”
with Beethoven among the
goddesses of his music.
It is the sort of exhibition
you can see only once in a
century: and its basic qualities
are superb craftsmanship and
a unique vision ,of life.
Douglas Stewart.
❖ +X+ <■>
Other Exhibitions
Sydney has multiplied its
usual multiplication of exhibi-
tions this week by having two
simultaneous shows at the
Clune Galleries and two at
Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries.
The two at Clune’s are by
John Rigby, whose plain, bare
boats and buildings from
Venice and Florence have a
pleasing simplicity, reminding
you at once of Cezanne and of
Sickert; and Roy Bizley, a
young English migrant who
also derives from Cezanne,
and, with a perilous inclina-
tion toward abstraction, in one
or two zigzag green land-
scapes gets something of the
effect we are accustomed to
seeing in a Passmore.
There was a faint echo of
Cezanne in one of the Blax-
land shows, too —in the oils
(not in the drawings) of New
Zealander Toss Woollaston ;
but it was a careless, watered-
down Cezanne who, if he com-
manded his oils to be what he
saw, seemed happy enough if
they only half obeyed him.
The other show, by nine of
the “Six Directions” painters,
went in a few well-worn direc-
tions, but not very far or very
impressively in any of them.
The most enterprising and
least selfconscious statements
here were made by Reinis
Zusters, especially in “Darling-
hurst” and “Woolloomooloo
Bay.”
Stage and Music
Kurtz and Krips
Edmund Kurtz was again
soloist with Henry Krips, the
S.A. Symphony Orchestra’s
resident conductor, on the
podium at Sydney Town Hall.
This time he played the Elgar
E Minor Concerto so finely
that he seemed to have floated
up to spheres of pure poetry-
The allegro molto section was
handled perfectly, while in the
adagio, with its honey-flowing
theme, Kurtz’s bow never
descended to tear-wringing
level: no doubt a temptation,
but Elgar’s texture of lush
wistfulness speaks for itself. f
On the same programme
there was Brahms’s Variations
on the Str Anthony Chorale, a
remarkable little thing, very
tender, almost lyrical; at the
same time quite serious in
character. Of the nine varia-
tions, the best are the third
(con moto ), reminding one of
the Saint Saens C Minor Organ
Concerto, and the ninth, with
that imperturbable ground-bass
marching beneath the synco-
pated violin flourishes—and the
theme, having quietly germi-
nated in the preceding varia-
tions, suddenly bursts into
bloom.
There was also the Vaughan
Williams Ninth Symphony, a
lot of splendid British noise,
although in the third-move-
ment the scoring for saxo-
phones is clever, as are the
passages for side-drum, especi-
ally right at the end, when, as
the composer himself said, ‘it
goes on by itself and quietly
taps itself to death.” In the
last movement there’s a smooth
and striking introductory
melody for strings, and later
on, as the saxophones re-
emerge, several electric risings,
and fallings in volume.
Ravel’s Spanish Rhapsody,


A new 10W COST
system of indoor bulk
6#m STOM6£
Can be erected in under one hour!
M
■ m
\ B8 1
3
Rodent-proof galvanized steel
sheet surround.
The Lysaght Universal Grain Bin
enables you to make full use of
your existing farm buildings for
bulk grain storage. Grain with a
moisture content as high as 14%
can be stored with safety. Suit-
able for temporary or long term
bulk storage of WHEAT, OATS,
MAIZE, MILO, SORGHUM, etc.
Central Ventilating tube and
porous bin wall allows free
circulation of air around and
through the grain.
Walls of high tensile, flexible,
galvanized steel mesh lined
with rot-proofed hessian.
Available in two types:
Type A includes Auger
Chute only.
Type 8 includes Grain
Outlet only.
Welded loops at mesh joints
and special locking pin permit
speedy erection and dismant-
ling. Can be stored in a mini-
mum of space.
ORB
LTSAGHT
UNIVERSAL GRAIN BIN
(AUSTRALIAN PATENT NO. 213098)
DIMENSIONS
1,000 bushels capacity.
14' 9" diameter x 7' 6" high.
Packed weight 0.3.3.8 approx.
2,000 bushels capacity.
14' 9" diameter x 14' 6" high.
Packed weight 0.6.0.8 approx.
PRICE
£6O
F.O.R.
NEWCASTLE
£97
F.O.R.
NEWCASTLE
Write today for complete information to:
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., All Capital Cities, or
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED, NEWCASTLE WORKS, N.S.W.
GB76XC.
last on the programme, was
full of vivid color and rhythm.
A. W.
*X+ ❖
Royal Ballet
The Royal Ballet Company
closed its Sydney account with
“Pineapple Poll” —David Blair
a supple, stylish and graceful
Captain Belaye, Patricia Cox a
crisp and sparkling Poll, and
Johaar Mosaval a nimbly
brilliant mixture of comedy
and pathos as Jasper the Pot
Boy ; a “Casse Noisette” pas -
de deux —Rowena Jackson,
with Philip Chatfield, once
more demonstrating her dazzl-
ing technical equipment; “A
Blue Rose”- —as elegant and
graceful as usual; “Les Syl-
phides”—a little tired, it
seemed ; and Robert Helpmann
dancing in his “Hamlet.”
The “Hamlet” takes the form
of a dream in “that sleep of
death” after Hamlet has died,
and is, in effect, a tabloid flash-
back over the events of the
tragedy. Within that form,
of course, anything goes,
including the Freudian over-
tones, although it hardly
seemed to accommodate, of all
things, a small and rather
waspish Hamlet. The ballet
itself, under Leslie Hurry’s
richly heavy scenery, is more a
thing of leap and pose and
heavy mime than of dancing,
and one regretted in particular
that it gave so little opportunity
for Anya Linden to show her
paces as Ophelia.
+*♦ +*♦
Nikolaidi
The Victorian Symphony
Orchestra’s eighth of its 1958
subscription - concerts was
thankfully received mainly for
its being the occasion for the
return of Elena Nikolaidi. Her
superb voice rang and whis-
pered through the Town Hall
in a cycle of songs that Ravel
dredged out of the ruins of
his unfinished opera, “Shehera-
zade,” and, lovely as they are,
they seemed to be made more
lovely by the alluring art of
the Greek singer. “The
Enchanted Flute” was the
finest of the trio.
Mendelssohn’s Italian Sym-
phony and Walton’s First Sym-'
phony were the big orchestral
business of the night.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“The House By the Lake”
Hugh Mills’s “The House
By the Lake,” put on by Bris-
bane Arts Theatre, is certainly


stacked with all the ingredients
for a thriller—gloomy English
house ; ice on the lake, just
waiting to give way under the
weight of anybody; two
attempts to poison-off a par-
ticularly nasty embezzler, the
first by his long-suffering wife
and the second by his psych ia-
trist brother. How convenient,
too, to make the “hero” a
psychiatrist! When the main
murder action lags, he is able
to maintain suspense in the
piece by using hypnotism on
his wife, in an attempt to plant
the seed of suicide in her mind,
The advantage of a good
thriller is that, provided genuine
suspense is maintained, this list
of improbabilities may be
overlooked. Vic Hardgrave’s
production was satisfactory in
this respect, largely due to an
admirable performance from
Betty Ross, who made the
hypnotism scene a 10-minute
stretch of real terror. One
wonders, though, how long it
will be before playwrights (and
producers in' Australia) realise
just how faded is the cult of
the English country-house play
with its maids and visiting
colonels.
VAL VALLIS.
BRADFORD COTTON MILLS
LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE:
“Bradniill House,” Cnr. Missenden and Parramatta Roads, Camperdown, N.S.W.
Speech of Mr. S. M. Wreford (Chairman) to Shareholders at the Thirty-first Annual
General Meeting of Bradford Cotton Mills, Limited, held on 29th October, 1958,
at 12 noon.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Printed copies of the financial statement and
the Directors’ reports relating to them were sent
out to shareholders with the notice of meeting,
and with your permission I propose to take them
as read.
THE GROUP RESULTS
The total value of sales for the year and the
Profit before Tax were both all-time records. As
a matter of interest, it might be mentioned that
the profit before tax of £1,000,732 marks the first
occasion on which a textile company in Australia
has exceeded £1,000,000 profit before making pro-
vision for taxation.
The profit growth in the years 1950-1958 is
clearly demonstrated in the printed accounts and
the development of the company and its sub-
sidiaries is evidenced by the growth of fixed assets
over that same period. It is something of an
achievement to have financed fixed assets amount-
ing to £2,675,000 out of current revenue in the
past fi\ e years.
The issue of £1,000,000 8% Registered Unsecured
Notes referred to in the Annual Report is reflected
in the consolidated accounts, and despite some
slowing up in collections owing to difficult trading
conditions in the last few months, the liquid
position of the Company has improved to a
marked degree. A year ago the consolidated
liability to bankers was £2,025,000 compared with
June 1958 of £1,081,000, which position has since
been maintained.
The record sales previously referred to were
achieved despite some falling off during the
last two months of the year. This slackening of
trade persisted through July and August but it
is pleasing to report considerable improvement for
September.
It is impossible to make any foreecast as to the
future. The general economic conditions will no
doubt have some effect on our operations. There
is, however, no indication of any serious decline
in sight.
PLANT DEVELOPMENT
We have continued our plant modernisation
programme and all mills have been kept up to
daLe by the installation of equipment supple-
mentary to existing plant or in place of plant
discarded on account of obsolescence.
Capital expenditure during the year, the greater
part of which was on new plant, totalled £557,426.
The value of obsolete plant, either sold or
scrapped, was £104,000. The cost value on all
plant and equipment in all our mills at 30Lh June
last was £7,179.294 against which depreciation,
£3,819,128 has been provided.
The more important items of expenditure on
plant development include the establishment of a
waste mill at Kotara at an estimated cost of
£100,000 and the purchase of a group of high
speed Multi-Purpose looms which have been set
up in the Burlington mill at Rutherford.
BURLINGTON MILLS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Since the last Annual Meeting of Shareholders,
Bradford Cotton Mills Limited has acquired both
the Ordinary and Preference Shares in Burlington
Mills (Australia) Limited not previously held by
Bradford. This unit is therefore now a wholly
owned subsidiary.
TARIFFS
Two new Tariff Board schedules were tabled
recently, one relating to cotton yarn and the
other to yarns spun from rayon staple fibre. Having-
regard to existing prices, the duties previously
operating on cotton yarns have been reduced.
A protective 'duty, however, has for the hrst time
been placed on a range of yarn spun from rayon
staple fibre. It is expected that this will make
for additional work in our spinning mills.
GENERAL
Our plant has been very well maintained and
kept in proper working order and all stocks have
been scrutinised item by item to ensure that they
have been conservatively valued.
We have made steady progress resulting .in
greater efficiency and greater productivity.
We move on in the new financial year secure
in the knowledge that we have the financial
resources, plant, equipment and the trained people
to handle whatever difficulties may arise.
Our Managing Director, Mr. R. j. Webster, is at
present overseas on behalf of the company and
the periodical visits which he makes to other
parts of the world always prove to be of great
benefit to the company. In addition to this we
have as usual had several of our key people visit
the continent, United Kingdom and the U.S.A.
to keep abreast with the latest manufacturing
techniques and we feel that this enables the
company to keep up to date with most of what
is new in other parts of the world.
The Directors wish to place on record their
appreciation of the loyal assistance of Manage-
ment, Executives and all other personnel
employed by the Company and its subsidiaries.
Their important contribution to the success of
the company is understood and fully appreciated.
BRADFORD COTTON MILLS LIMITED
S. M. WREFOUD
CHAIRMAN
Sydney 291 h October, 1958.
Films
“God’s Little Acre”
Drawn from Erskine Cald-
well’s novel, this revolves
around a philosophically obses-
sional gold-digger and his four
sons —two helping him convert
his property to a crater-ridden
tract, another living on dollars
and one on drink.
The drinking son wants to
bust into a closed cotton-mill
and “throw the switch to light
the whole world up”; the
wealthy son wants Griselda,
wife of one of the digging
sons ; the digging son wants to
eliminate his drinking brother,
who also has eyes on Griselda ;
the old man wants gold and
peace all round.
All pretty down-to-earth
stuff, and if Buddy Hackett, as
a plumply stupid sheriff,
hadn’t projected unbelievable
naivete, the overall study of
personalities might have been
even more powerful. Still,
there it is: Robert Ryan a
hoarsely bewhiskered old man,
strong in his fever ; Aldo Ray
a resolute and tightly convinc-
ing switch - thrower ; Tina
Louise a temporarily soured
beauty.
At Sydney Mayfair. '
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Paris Holiday”
Bob Hope, equipped with a
string of “clever” gags, invades
Paris on a “business and holi-
day trip” and gets mixed-up
with a counterfeiting gang.
The humor falls like slow
snowdrops ; French comedian
Fernandel gets most of the
laughs, largely through
language problems.
The gang is quite incredible ;
in the climax Hope trails from
a rope-ladder on a helicopter
while carload on carload of
crooks whizz along beneath
firing pistol salvos —nary a
bullet touches the Hope hide.
But the film is neither fish
nor fowl —unless, perhaps, with
Anita Ekberg strutting around
like a chesty peacock, it inclines
to the poultry side.
Hoyts circuit.


Full
time Service
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
TR58.34
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee
Company, has, since its inception in 1878, given the whole of its time to
the provision of prompt, efficient and economical service as Executor,
Trustee, Administrator or Agent.
"A It cannot die or leave the country. Its services go on forever,
* It is specially constituted under Act of Parliament.
★ It offers ample security for the performance of trusts.
A- Its charges are fixed and moderate.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY,
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £976,220.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney
Jones; J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C..
V.D.; W. E. M. Campbell; T. L. Webb.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
1v.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Ileffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G.
Potter; Rear Admiral H. J. Buchanan, C.8.E., D.S.O.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Bradford Cotton Mills, Ltd.
/Comparisons are usually odious, especi-
ally where companies are concerned,
but an exception could well be made in
the case of Bradford Cotton and Davies,
Coop (B. 5/11/ ’5B), which, in their out-
ward form, prospects and apparent
earning-power vis-a-vis visible share-
holders’ funds, are the Tweedledum and
Tweedledee of the Australian cotton
industry.
A closer analysis, however, reveals
differences in the potential of the two
stocks which explain the sharemarket’s
acceptance of divergent yields, currently
6.5 p.c. from Bradford’s shares and 7.5
p.c. from the stock of what is in effect
its only local competitor of any
significance.
Firstly, a glance at Bradford’s con-
solidated profit-and-loss account.
After a taxation provision of £417,849
(£405,358 in 1957, adjusted to include
Burlington’s figures) and a depreciation
charge of £500,837 (£441,939, adjusted),
Bradford’s all-time record showing had
only a slight edge on that of its rival;
but its pre-tax and pre-depreciation earn-
ings were £1,501,569 as against the
£1,035,159 recorded by Davies, Coop.
Bradford has the higher equity-capital
to pay dividends on, £3,378,989 compared
with £2,272,071, and its present p.c.
div.-scale leaves a smaller visible surplus
to tack-on to reserves than Davies, Coop’s
15 p.c.; and reserves themselves are
visibly less substantial. Freeholds, how-
ever, appear at cost, £2,750,774, on book-
values, possibly less some depreciation,
although this is not made clear ; whereas,
in the case of the other group, there
have been substantial asset-revaluations
in recent years.
Here is a synoptic view of results in
recent years: —
Bradford Cotton and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends ■, To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves, serves.'f
£ £ £ £
Share premiums, £300,631 . . .. l, p '41.837
Removal exes., etc., £38,268 . . 1,693,569
To staff fund, £5OOO 1,598,569
1952.-375,926 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 248,144 127,782 1,726,351
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 1,721,351
1953.. 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 266.535 98,829 1,820,180
To staff fund, £lO.OOO .. .. 1,810,180
Add reserves adjustment, £Bll6 .. 1,818,296
1954.. 734 6 p.c. 124p.c. 354,818 142,916 1,961,212
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 1,956,212
1955.. 469.572 6 p.c. 124p.c. 368,503 101,069 2,057,281
To staff fund, £5OOO 2,052,281
1956.. 6 p.c. 124p.c. 371,193 99,037 2,151,318
Provn. long-service leave, £63,000 2,088,318
To staff fund, £5OOO 2,083,318
Unexplained net addition, £11,246 .. 2,094,564
Capital surplus, £227,691 . . . . 2,322,255
Investments written-off, £37,500 . . 2,284,755
1957.. 451 6 p.c. 124p.c. 397,545 172,906 2,457,661
Capital surplus, £472,904 .. .. 2,930,565
Unexplained addition, £9040 . . 2,939,605
Special reserves trails, to depn. provn.,
£123,000 .. 2,816,605
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 2,811,605
To long-service provn., £17,064 . . 2,794,541
Tax underprovided, etc., £17,101 .. 2,777,440
1958.. 582.883 6 p.c. 12jp.c. 428,070 154,813 2,932,253
* Excluding outside interests. t After deducting
intangibles, now written-off, and excluding deprecia-
tion and amortisation reserve ( £3,944,053).
But, from the investor’s viewpoint,
there is another important distinction
between the means whereby each firm is
financing its own particular ambitious
scheme for expansion and reoutfitting.
Davies, Coop during the year has issued
convertible notes which, assuming no
interim issues of capital, will on maturity
more than double ordinary capital within
the next six years. On the other hand,
Bradford’s very well-received issue of
non-convertible eight-percenters earlier
this year maintains, even if it postpones,
the increment possibilities of the ords.
At its present 38s. 3d. quote, Bradford’s
scrip could be the better long-run proposi-
tion.
In both Bradford tables herewith
1957 totals have been adjusted to take-in
figures of the rayon-spinning and -weav-
ing Burlington group, a former part-
owned subsidiary, bulk of whose outside
shareholders were bought-over by
Bradford about 12 months ago by the
exchange of 447,067 20s. shares, two-for-
one, for 421,650 20s. Burlington ords. and
472,484 20s. 4} p.c. prefs. The remaining
27,516 prefs. held by outsiders have been
exchanged since June 30:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
195(5. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £3.045,431 £3,061,961 £3,532,093
Reserves .. 2,154,181 2,457,661 2,932,253
Outside interest 959,282 27,510
Motes .... 1,000,000
Depreciation
reserve . . 2,281.178 3.377-7747 3,944,053
Mortgage loan 1,050,000 1,025,000 1,000,000
o\ erdrait .. 1,157,814 2,025,461 1,081,087
Deferred creditors 448,956 411,667
Creditors . . 1,079,966 1,727,147 1,657,373
Staff fund .. 35,127 109,670 136,020
Tax reserve* ~ 381,072 428,883 460,197
Final div. .. 185,830 199,274 216,640
£11,370,599 £15,821,042 £16,398,899
Freeholds ~ 1,837,971 2,680,589 2,750,774
Leaseholds ~ 135,793
Investments ~ 490,758 112,023 112,023
Plant .. 5,194,908 6,796,073 7,179,294
Stock .. ... 2,361,677 4,295,663 4,462,777
Debtors .. 1,346,629 1,936,694 1,894,031
Intangibles ~ 2,863
£11,370,599 £15,821,042 £16,398,899
* Includes unspecified contingencies.
Bradford’s capital as it stood at
balance-date comprised £60,000 in 6 p.c.
first cumulative prefs., £93,104 in 6 p.c.
second cumulative prefs., £3,236,159 of
ordinary shares, and £142,830 of
employees’ shares. After the prefs.—-
including Burlington’s for the first half-
year—had received their due, aggregate
profit for the ords. last term was £561,822,
and earning-rate on mean ordinary
capital was 17.2 p.c., at least, on figures
as presented.
In the course of the year the only
marked change in the balance-sheet was
the displacement of £944,374 of over-
draft borrowings by the £1,000,000 note-
issue, with a consequent noticeable
improvement in the working-capital posi-
tion. Current assets, pretty much the
same ast last year, showed at £12,454,846
in the accounts, but current liabilities fell
from £4,380,765 to £3,415,297 ; so there
are no headaches in this direction.
A capital-surplus of £472,904 arising
from the final acquisition of the Burling-
ton family was the main factor
behind the net £474,592 added to reserves,


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownhills.”
Telephone: BW 1465 (3 lines),
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street
Sydney
Telegraphic aiul Cable Address: “Hatmax" Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771 —BIV 8088
which now give each 20s. of equity-
capital, including employees’ shares, a
net tangible-asset backing of 375. 4d.
Streets Ice Cream, Ltd.
Long and securely implanted in the
Sydney and Illawarra (N.S.W.)
districts, Streets has successfully ex-
tended its taproots to the Newcastle and
Hunter River area, and now has terri-
torial designs on Wagga and its environs.
To satisfy an ever-growing clientele,
there has been a fresh outpouring of
capital-investment, financed by a note-
issue last March.
The 7 p.c. registered unsecured notes,
£181,403 worth of them, offered at par
in the ratio of one for three stock-units
held, will be converted to 20s. equities
on April 30, 1963, and noteholders mean-
while will be on equal terms with stock-
holders in any interim capital-issues.
Streets has figured in ice-cream for
nearly 30 years, but records only six
full terms as a public company ; these
six, however, have sufficed to win the
stock a high rating among the 'Change’s
second-liners:
Parent and Subsidiary.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. r Dividend N serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1953.. 86,274 11 p.c. = 47,887 38,387 185,945
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Add subsidiary reserves, £262 .. 186,207
Tax overprovided, £17,639 . . . . 203,846
1954. .120,329 12 p.c. 52,239 65,090 271,936
To staff fund, £3OOO . . . . . ■ 208,936
1955. .129,095 13 p.c. = 56,593 72,502 341,438
Unexplained addition, £2824 . . . . 344,262
1956. .150,408 14 p.c. = 60,946 89,462 433,724
Goodwill written-off, £3396 .. .. 399,761
1957. .171,663 14 p.c. = 09,053 102,010 501.771
Goodwill written-off, £lOOO .. .. 500,771
Unexplained addition, £372 .. .. 501,143
1958. .179,847 - 14 p.c. = 76,182 103,665 604,808
* Subject to intangibles, £40,300, at 30/6/’5B.
Competition is fairly lively in this class
of business, but there is a natural ten-
dency toward territorial delimitation
through the influence of one-brand
retailers. Consolidated net profit last
year would work-out at 9 p.c. on a turn-
over of just over £2 million, a 1.1 p.c.
drop from the 1956-57 margin, but
satisfactory, nevertheless, in the light oi
the current expansion, and consistent
with long-run trends.
The latest and record earnings of the
parent and its offshoots, £179,847, repre-
sented a gain of £BlB4 on the 1956-57
showing, and were equivalent to 15.7
p.c. on shareholders’ funds, and to 33
p.c. on a one-class paid-up capital which
hasn’t changed since the one-for-four par
issue of 108,832 20s. ords. of November,
1956, the only one of public interest to
date.
This result was after £109,000 (down
£8000) had been set aside for taxation
and £83,183 (up £255) charged for depre-
ciation on fixed assets, which appeared
in the books at a net £662,371 on June
30. From all appearances, there is no
need to look beyond the published
accounts.
Earning-rates on average capital over
the five years, 1953-57, 19.8 p.c., 27.6,
29.7, 31.5, 34.5, show that the last injec-
tion of share-money has been put to good
account.
An all-round increase in the size of
balance-sheet items reveals that activities
must be on a much wider scale than even
a year ago. On the assumption that the
co. would be at pains not to overload
stocks, which presumably have a highly
perishable content, the 33 p.c. increase
in their book-figure, from £115,229 to
£152,829, is not without its signifi-
cance :
Consolidated P>alance-sheet.
1956. 1957. 1958,
Paid capital .. £435,330 £544,162 £544,162
Reserves . • • • 433,72-4 501,771 604,808
Notes .. .. 181,403
Creditors . . .. 52,022 67,167 88,001
Tax provision ~ 111.106 119,415 112,872
Staff fund.. .. 5,236 7,236 9,236
Final divs. .. 34,826 43,533 43,533
£1,072,244 £1,283,284 £1,584,015
Freeholds . . .. 336,844 413,236 531,509
Plant, etc. . . 470,064 560,162 662,371
Stock . . . . 94,113 115,229 152,829
Debtors, etc. ~ 46,442 52,906 83,792
Cash, etc. ' . . 50,518 101,451 113,214
Intangibles .. 74,263 40,300 40,300
£1,072,244 £1.283,284 £1,584,015
Investment in profit-earning installations
continued at about the same rate as last
year, and a net £220,482 was added to
fixed assets from a capital - expenditure
during the year of £303,665, covering
extensions to the Turrella (Sydney) and.
Corrimal (South Coast) installations and
premises, and the construction of a
motor-body and cold-room manufactur-
ing department. In the previous year,
a new factory had been completed for
the Parramatta subsidiary, Lynam’s Ice
Cream Pty., and the first stage of a pro-
jected Newcastle plant opened.
The influx of note-money enabled a
high degree of liquidity and a satisfac-
tory margin of working-capital to be
more than maintained, and Streets' only
financial worries appear to be the timing
of future issues of scrip or notes.
With a 14 p.c. dividend covered nearly
two-and-a-half times, and an asset-
backing which in one year leaped visibly
by ss. to 40s. 9d., the stock is eagerly
sought, and buyers are offering 565. 6d.,
for an immediate 4.9 p.c. yield. The
notes are enjoying an unprecedented
popularity, last changing hands at 435. 3d.
each, on which basis yield to maturity
is 3.2 p.c.
Adelaide Cement Co., Ltd.
~vrow that the end of Adelaide Cement’s
extensive expansion and plant-
replacement programme is in sight, the
co. can be expected to step-up its attack
on the large debenture-debt, which, under
guarantee arrangements with the S.A.
carries with it an obligation
to limit the div.-rate to a maximum of
8 p.c. As the earning-rate on ord. capital
has averaged 31.8 p.c. over the past five
years, reaching a juicy 37 p.c. last term,
there is obviously considerable scope for
an increase in the annual payout, and
sharemarket interest in the scrip centres
around the timing and extent, rather than
the possibility, of such a move.
Meanwhile, the completion in the
current term of a second cement-mill at
Birkenhead (S.A.) and of a larger
crushing-plant at the Klein’s Point quarry
will involve the co. in a capital-outlay of
approximately £200,000, the extensions
bringing these items of plant into line
with an expanded kiln-capacity.
Of the original £900,000 advanced (at
less than 4 p.c.) by the State Bank of
S.A., and secured by debenture and
Government guarantee, £570,837 was
outstanding at the end of last term
(May 31), the advance payment of instal-
ments in the current year reducing the
debt to £465,981. The final repayment
isn’t due until 1970, but, on current
indications, the co. could comfortably
eliminate the liability and, presumably,
the dividend-limitation, over the next
three or four terms.
Bids for the f.-p. £1 ords. have strength-
ened accordingly, and buyers last week
offered 495. for the scrip (as against
365. 4d. a year ago), the yield at this
price working-out at a modest £3 ss. 4d.
p.c. After deducting the pref. div., last
term’s showing was equal to 15 p.c. on
the sharemarket valuation of Adelaide
Cement’s £300,000 ord. capital, so that
investors who are prepared to wait for
a few years might reasonably look for-
ward to an increase of at least 100 p.c.
on the present yield.
Future rewards depend, of course, on
trading results as well as the removal of
artificial restraints on the div.-rate, and
in this regard planned and current indus-
trial development in South Australia
promise to strengthen local demand for
cement and compensate for the expected
decline in inter-State sales of the
competitively priced. S.A. product.
Overall demand seems likely to stabilise
at around current levels.
The reconstruction and extension of
Adelaide Cement's Birkenhead works
began to pay-off in 1953, and the highly
satisfactory course of earnings over the
last five years, along with the healthy
growth of reserves, can be seen from the
following table:
, —Dividends To Re- Re-
May Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. senes.
SI, 8 p.c. 6 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
1951.. 21,060 1200 18,000 1,800 73,895
1952.. 24,511 1200 18.000 5,311 79.20 G
1953.. 30,914 1200 18,000 17,714 96,920
8 p.c.
1954.. 85,765 1200 24,000 60,565 157,485
Tax overprovided, £30,000 .. .. 187.485
1955.. 92,227 1200 24,000 67,027 254,512
1956.. 95,526 1200 24,000 70.326 324,838
1957.. 97,895 1200 24,000 72,695 397.533
1958.. 112,113 1200 24,000 86,913 484,446
Cement production over the year to


G. H. PARTRIDGE & CO.
E. D. PARTRIDGE, A. G. HANSON
{Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
113 Pitt Street, Sydney
Telephone: BE 5031-3
'k=3
%
Every professional
man owes it to him-
self and his family to
enquire about “Table
32.”
INCOME
PROTECTION
for
Professional
Men
PERSONAL
ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS
INSURANCE
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD. (Inc. in Old., 1895
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES FOR
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
FOR
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of
residence at St. John’s College and an allowance of up to £lO per
annum, payable at the discretion of the Trustees,
OR
(1») HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £175 per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under
the Will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are
insufficient to enable their sons to study Agricultural Science and must
satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the University of Sydney,
or of Entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not
later than the Ist December, 1958, in the case of Bursaries tenable at the
Hawkesbury Agricultural College, and not later than the 19th January,
1959, in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney), and further
particulars may be obtained from: —
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
May 31 last was “substantially”
in excess of the original
150,000-ton estimate of kiln-
capacity, a “correspondingly
high level of sales” helping to
bump-up net earnings by
£14,218 to £112,113. The
higher figure was arrived at
after providing £139,240 (up
£14,240) for depreciation and
£lOO,OOO (up £20,000) for taxa-
tion, the tax-provision, appro-
priate to a net profit of around
£165,000, suggesting that the
profit-estimate was anything
but over-optimistic.
Expenditure on plant last
term amounted to £126,434, or
£12,806 less than the provision
for depreciation, and the co.
was able to reduce mortgage-
and debenture-loans by a total
of £62,798 and at the same
time add £118,344 to holdings
of cash, bonds, etc. However,
the larger tax-provision and a
£17,469 increase in the figure
against creditors (which
includes provisions for accrued
maintenance and “other con-
tingencies”) kept the improve-
ment in working - capital
(£281,305) down to £35,768, a
somewhat unexpected drop of
14.6 p.c. in book-debts and
sundry “debit balances” fol-
lowing a steep jump in the
preceding term: —•
Paid capital— 1957. 1958.
Pref. .. .. £15,000 £15,000
Old 300,000 300,000
Reserves .. 397,533 484,446
Mortgages .. 15,487 14,857
Debentures . . 633,005 570,837
Creditors, etc... 196,948 214,417
Tax provision . . 99,428 129,001
Final div. .. 12,600 12,600
£1,670,001 £1,741,158
Property, plant,
etc 1,104,444 1,089,076
Shares .. .. 750 750
Stocks .. .. 206,639 198,677
Debtors . . . . 163,237 139,380
Cash, bonds .. 194,931 313,275
£1,670,001 £1,741,158
Unchanged since 1946, share-
capital has the support of
£484,446 of visible reserves, the
f.-p. £1 ords. enjoying a net
tangible asset backing of
525. 4d.
Welded Products, Ltd.
Trucked away amidst the
*- dark satanic mills which
facade O’Riordan Street in
inner-suburban Sydney is a
hitherto comparatively unsung
engineer.
It styles itself, rather pro-
saically, Welded Products,
Ltd., a name which is, perhaps,
a trifle misleading. For no
run-of-the-mill jobbing-shop is
this ; borne along on the pro-
duction-line are a most compre-
hensive range of giant presses,
bending rolls, guillotines and
similar heavy-duty metal-work-
ing plant, and a round-up of
customers would include a
handsome sprinkling of this
country’s big-name industrials.
Joseph and John Ogden
(managing-directors), two of
the original proprietors of
what began virtually as a
father - and - son partnership
back in 1934, remain on the
board, which includes William
Miskoe, who is also managing-
director of the very progressive
Lincoln Electric Co. The other
two members of a well-
balanced team are Frank
Quinn (chairman), also a board-
member of Steel Mills, Ltd.,
and Charles Stringer.
Registered as a proprietary
in 1935 and converted to a
public company in October,
1946, Welded Products by
November, 1948, had a paid
capital of £115,000. In Novem-
ber, 1950, the company issued
230,000 ords. at par to share-
holders on a one-for-two basis,
and this was followed-up, in
July, 1956, by a three-for-ten
par issue of 216,000 ss. ords.
Authorised capital has now
been raised from £250,000 to
£1,000,000, a move which
almost certainly presages a
fresh injection of equity-capital
in the not-too-distant-future,
possibly in partnership with
some other form of paper.
Here is a table showing the
steady growth of earning-
power over the relevant por-
tion of the company’s
career: —■
Re-
June Profit. , Dividend—serves.
30, £ £ £
Share issue expenses \v/off,
£825 19,997
1950.. 10,927 8 p.c. = 8,223 22,701
Share issue expenses w/off,
£825 21,876
1951.. 18,748 8 p.c. = 11,500 29,124
Share issue expenses w/off,
£7lB 28,406
Capital profit, £l5O . . 28,556
1952. . 18,727 8 p.c. = 13,800 33,483
1953 .. 9,885 5 p.c. = 8,025 34,743
Capital profit, £lO3 . . 34,846
1954.. 24,572 10 p.c. = 17,250 42,168
1955. . 28,840 10 p.c. = 17,250 55,758
1956.. 41,293 10 p.c. = 17,250 78,044
Capital profit, £5O .. 78.094
1957.. 42.896 10 p.c. = 21,472 99,518
1958. . 48,323 10 p.c. = 22,650 125,191
Since ’Change listing, divi-
dends have averaged over 9
p.c., and a steady 10 p.c. payout
has been maintained over the
past quinquennium, during
which the earning-rate on an
average, all-equity, capital has
come along in this fashion—
-14.2 p.c. (1954), 16.7, 23.9,
19.9, 21.3 p.c. (1958).
Into reserves last term went
more than half the net profit
of £48,323 (£42,896 in 1957),
which was struck after provid-
ing £31,000 (£26,710) for taxa-
tion and £20,485 (£13,482) for
depreciation on all fixed assets.
The next balance-sheet may
show some marked changes:
1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £223,546 £226,500
Reserves .. 99,518 125,191
Overdraft .. 41,488 51.844
Creditors .. 37,463 48,813
Tax provision .. 28,057 31,055
Final dividend.. 11,038 11,325
£441,110 £494,728
Freeholds .. 72,399 103,508
Plant, etc. .. 141,858 142,029.
Stock, w.i.p. .. 113,844 139,476
Debtors . . .. 112,481' 109,110
Cash, etc. ~ 528 605
£441,110 £494,728
A net addition of about
£30,000 over the year will be
noticed in the book-value of
freeholds. This stemmed from
the purchase of a small Glades-
ville firm, All Purpose Engi-
neers Pty., whose removable
assets will also be transferred
to Milperra.
Overall, the outside debt
doesn’t look overlarge in pro-
portion to total liabilities, and
working finances are in good
shape. Obviously, however,
the scale of the mooted ex-
pansion presupposes something
more than an extension of the
bank-overdraft.
On book-values at June 30
last, net tangibles for each ss.
share amounted to 7s. 9d.
There has been a slight
quickening of interest in a
usually flaccid market for the
scrip. Yield from the shares at
7s. in the market on a 10 p.c.


Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
K. H. ALLEN
I*. K. LEVY
M. R. L. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Slock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
Ge
First mortgage debenture stock
0> SO
SHORT TERM
5/
PER ANNUM
12 months 5%
410/
• • •
. • • 4%
3 • • • 3|r%
LONG TERM
0
0
PER ANNUM
S-IO years 7%
4 . . . 6J%
3 . . . 6%
2 . » . 5|%
GENERAL CREDITS LIMITED offers first mortgage
debenture stock on long or short term basis. Cumulative
stock carrying 6i°/o compounded on yearly rests with
currencies of 5 to 15 years.
Interest is paid quarterly free
of exchange.
Investors wishing to withdraw
earlier than the specified
term may do so in accordance
with the conditions described
in the prospectus.
PROSPECTUS:
Bankers are the Commercial
Bank of Australia Limited, from
whom the prospectus is avail-
able and from Members of the
Stock Exchange and Company
Offices at Corner Pitt & Goulburn
Streets, Sydney. Phone: MA 8276.
BROKERS: J. B. WERE & SON
This is not a prospectus and docs not constitute
an invitation to subscribe IAT7 _
dividend basis is £7 2s. lid.
p.c. p.a.
Shortly the company will be
folding-up its tents and moving
out to the peripheral but.
already heavily industrialised,
suburb of Milperra, where it
is proposed to erect a modern
factory on an 11-acre
site which has been bought,
and the present plant-capacity
will ultimately be approxi-
mately doubled. The far-
reaching plans are already
well advanced, and the diffi-
cult transfer has been sche-
duled so finely that disloca-
tion of the production-line
should be kept down to a
minimum.
The recently inaugurated
production of coil-strip (up to
sft. wide) by B.H.P.’s
giant subsidiary, Australian
Iron and Steel, Ltd., promises
to transform the trend of
Australian press requirements
in what can only be described
as a revolutionary manner. In-
stead of the usual drop-in lift-
out operation by single panels,
the newer methods widely
used overseas, notably in car-
body pressings, entail a con-
stant feed-in process which
will not only speed-up produc-
tion but will also cut-down on
present labor costs.
This new manifestation of
automation naturally evokes
the need -for ancillary equip-
ment, and Welded Products
will set-up on land adjacent to
the main factory an autono-
mous subsidiary, which will
also roll-form guttering by the
faster process. Output will be
lifted ■ from 16,000 ft. a day
from one machine to 60,000 ft.,
with one less operative in
attendance.
Mt. Lyell
A number of factors support
the optimistic attitude
taken by chairman W. E.
Bassett at the annual meeting
of Mt. Lyell Mining and Rail-
way Co., Ltd., last month.
Among the more important of
these are the stabilisation, by
bounty and tariff, of local
copper prices and the firming
of world copper-markets gener-
ally, the return to a higher
grade of ore, operating-
economies, and the attainment
of the 10,000-ton copper out-
put, towards which Mt. Lyell
has. been working for some
years.
A large-scale investor, Mt.
Lyell expects that this side of
its activities will also show a
higher return in the current
year, while recently completed
arrangements with the neigh-
boring Renison Associated Tin
Mines, N.L., will give the co.
a 49.9 p.c. shareholding in this
tin-mining concern. Earlier
this year Renison reported the
discovery of a substantial ore-
body of good-grade tin-ore, the
extremities of which have yet
to be determined.
Of more immediate interest
to shareholders is the recovery
in Mt. Lyell’s earnings, the
accompanying increase in the
div.-rate (slashed from 16.6 p.c.
to 6.6 p.c. in 1956-57) to 8| p.c.
being backed-up by the board’s
forecast that funds available
for distribution in the current
term “will be greater than the
amounts distributed during the
past two years.”
The sharemarket hasn't
ignored these pointers, and the
scrip, which dropped to a shade
below par in June of this year,
sold last week at 28s. At this
price a 10 p.c. div. would
return 7.1 p.c., the yield rising
to 8.9 p.c. should the board
decide on 124 p.c. distribution.
Last term’s net profit repre-
sented 15.7 p.c. on paid capital,
before allowing for employee-
bonuses.
After exhausting its reserves
of high- and medium-grade ore
just on 30 years ago, Mt. Lyell
continued to mine low-grade
copper ore (at Mt. Lyell, Tas.),
mainly by opencut methods,
a large part of the co.’s earn-
ings coming from its invest-
ment-interests, which include
shareholdings in a number of
associated fertiliser cos., Metal
Manufacturers, Email and
1.C.1.A.N.Z.
The near-completion of;
the expansion programme in
1957 enabled the production
target-figures (2,000,000 tons of
ore and 10,000 tons of copper)
to be achieved last term.
Total tonnages handled dur-
ing the year (to June 30)
dropped by 317,352 tons to
3,918,859 tons, but the ratio of
overburden to ore was far
lower at 1 to 1.5 (as against
1 to 0.67 in the preceding
year), the quantity of ore
extracted rising by 301,090 tons
to 2,007,621 tons. Average
values were higher, too, at
0.660 p.c. copper, an impover-
ished zone encountered in
1956-57 reducing the average
grade of ore handled in that
term to 0.583 p.c. :
Total Over- Assay
Materials, burden, Ore, Copper,
Tons. Tons. Tons. p.c.
'’s6* 2,833.174 1,678,433 1,154.791 0.060
’57-4,236,211 2.529,735 1,706,531 0.583
’55..3,918,859 1,911,238 2,007,621 0.660
* Nine months only.
The 2,006,788 tons (up 300,438
tons) of ore treated yielded
47,155 tons (up 11,485 tons) of
concentrates averaging 22.78
p.c. copper, the recovery-rate
improving from 80.82 p.c. to
82.03 p.c.
{Continued on page 33)


I
ii§
|iD
wi.h ms
XM
TREAD RUBBER
There’s a new “feel” about this improved
3»T Twin Tread tyre, a brand new experi-
ence in motoring. The wider Twin Tread
gives better steering, superior performance
on curves and an all-round improvement
in road-holding. Allied with the mighty
strength of Goodyear’s exclusive 3*T tyre
cord triple tempered and triple tough
is a hew and better X*M TREAD RUBBER
proved by exhaustive tests to give up to 30
per cent, greater mileage. Choose the new,
wider 3»T Twin Tread for your car and be
sure of long, long miles of extra tread life.
* XTRA MILEAGE
Ta
4
i
os*
6
SSfitf*
m\\o*
%
W
cSiSJ®*-
W
01©
HIOOA
good/year
Custom Super/cushion Tyres
MORE PEOPLE, THE WORLD OYER, RIDE ON GOODYEAR TYRES THAN ON ANY OTHER MAKE


NORTH BROKEN HILL LIMITED
(Incorporated in the State of Victoria )
Chairman's Address
Address delivered by the Chairman of Directors of North Broken Hill Limited (Mr. M. L. Baillieu)
at the Ordinary General Annual Meeting of Stockholders on Friday, 31st October, 1958.
On behalf of the Board, I present
to you the Accounts of the Com-
pany and the Directors’ Report for
the year ended 30th June, 1958.
A copy of those documents has
been forwarded to each Stock-
holder, so I propose, with your
concurrence, to take them as read.
FINANCIAL
From the Report you will have
noted that the nett profit for 1958
was £512,827 compared with
£2,119,896 for the previous year.
Income from Mine Production
was £3,978,191, which was £3,279,737
lower than for the previous year.
This fall in income was mainly the
result of lower prices received for
lead and zinc, although a contribut-
ing factor was that our lead and
silver sales were less than produc-
tion by approximately 2,800 tons
in the case of lead and 360,000
ounces of silver.
The average prices which we re-
ceived for lead, zinc and silver
during the years ended 30th June,
1957 and 1958, will, without doubt,
be of interest to you.
They were—
1957. 1958.
Per Ton. Per Ton.
Lead —f.a.s Pt. Pirie, S-. Aust. .. .. £l3l/9/2 £9l/13/1
—a fall of £39/16/1.
Zinc—f.o.b Itisdon, Tasmania .. .. £llB/9/3 £B7/13/6
—a fall of £3O/15/9.
1957. 1958.
Per Ounce. Per Ounce.
Silver —f.a.s. Pt. Pirie, S.-Aust. .. .. 8/1.5 7/11.1
which is 2.4 d. less than for 1957.
With the fall in lead prices there
lias been a consequent decrease in
the lead bonus paid to employees.
As a result of this, a reduction in
the labour force and economies
effected, Mine Expenditure for the
past year amounted to £3,972,385
compared with £4,524,441 for the
previous year.
During the year, the Company
nealised its investments in Com-
monwealth Government Loans and
withdrew some deposits with other
Companies. Income from invest-
ments was lower due to the re-
duction in interest received.
An amount of £15.000 has been
provided in the Accounts to cover
the Company’s liability for Income
Tax. The results from mining
operations were such, however, that
no New South Wales Mining
Royalty is payable.
Of the sum appropriated at 30th
June, 1957, for expenditure on New
Plant and Mine Development,
£501,872 was unexpended and has
been written back to Appropriation
Account. £400,000 has been appro-
priated for expenditure on New
Plant and Mine Deyelopment
during the current year.
INVESTMENTS
In the financial year 1957-58 the
profit of The Broken Hill Associ-
ated Smelters Pty. Ltd. reflected
the world tendency towards re-
duced metal prices, but neverthe-
less continued at a satisfactory
figure.
For a \ number of years The
Broken Hill Associated Smelters
has had a substantial interest in
coal and coke production in New
South Wales.
During the post war period of
coal and coke shortages, the Com-
pany purchased Port Kembla No.
2 Colliery and later, the Coal Cliff
Colliery and the Illawarra Coke
Works, in order to ensure the
Smelter’s supply .of these vital
materials. Iu anticipation of pro-
ducing zinc metal at Port Pirie
from slag and other materials, in
the treatment of which greatly in-
creased quantities of coke would be
needed, a decision was taken in
1956 to mechanise and equip the
Coal Cliff Colliery for large scale
production of washed coal.
This programme is now well ad-
vanced, and it is expected that
production will be increased sub-
stantially in the early part of 1959.
Potential coal production will be
in excess of the Smelter's require-
ments and domestic and export
markets are being sought. *
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters is also a producer of Sul-
phuric acid at the rate of approxi-
mately 64,000 tons a year. The
South Australian Government’s
Uranium plant at Port Pirie has
first call on the B.H.A.S. output,
and the balance of approximately
54,000 tons is sold to the Fertiliser
industry of South Australia. That
industry also draws supplies of
acid from its own Company, Sul-
phuric Acid Limited. In South
Australia sulphuric acid is under
price control, and this control is
exercised differentially between
B.H.A.S. acid and S.A.L. acid, to
the substantial disadvantage of
B.H.A.S.
B.H.A.S. is not only disad-
vantaged as to the price of acid,
but it is restricted in the amount
which it can deliver.
When price control is operated
differentially it assumes the char-
acter of profit control rather than
price control. This is particularly
inappropriate at a time when the
Broken Hill lead-zinc industry is
struggling to re-establish its posi-
tion in the face of adverse lead-
zinc prices.
Wharfage dues payable at Port
Pirie by B.H.A.S. amount to
£135,000 per annum and represent
more than half of the total for
the Port. In the last five years
wharfage rates have doubled and
have become a real cost burden to
the industry. On the other hand,
the South Australian Harbour’s
Board expenditures associated with
the Smelters wharf have been
relatively low and are likely to
remain so," although large stcale im-
provements elsewhere in the Port
are contemplated. According to
the last published accounts of the
Board (for the year 1956-1957), it
obtained a surplus, from its opera-
tions at Port Pirie of £220.000 com-
pared with £158.000 from Port Adel-
aide where four times the Pirie
tonnage was handled.
The lead Smelter at Port Pirie
accepts the principle that it should
bear its fair proportion of main-
taining the Port but has reason to
believe it is currently being asked
to b ear considerably more.
Accordingly, a request has been
made to the South Australian
Government that wharfage dues
payablh by B.H.A.S. be consider-
ably reduced.
B.H.A.S. on behalf of the Broken
Hill Mining Industry, has joined
with leading producers in other
countries in financing a programme
of fundamental and applied
research into the uses of lead.
This work will be carried out in
the United States under the direc-
tion of the Lead Industries
Association.
I am pleased to report that Metal
Manufacturers Limited has had a
satisfactory year and that its divi-
dend is being maintained. Through
its shareholding in Metal Manu-
facturers Limited, your Company
has a substantial interest in the
copper, brass and aluminium fabri-
cating industry in this country'.
Having in mind the development
expected to take place in Aus-
tralia during the next decade, for-
ward prospects are most encourag-
ing, and good results are confi-
dently anticipated in the years
which lie immediately ahead.
The ' financial results of The
Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Company of Australia Pty. Ltd.
showed a marked improvement on
the previous year’s figures. This
improvement was, in part, a reflec-
tion of settled industrial condi-
tions but, in addition, the demand
for • copper products improved
steadily throughout the year.
Stock levels at the close of the
trading period were satisfactory
and enabled the Company to adjust
itself to the continued decline in
copper prices.
The Company is installing a
Lurgi sintering machine which will
expand its smelter capacity and
increase its ability to serve the
copper mining industry. The
principal units have already been
landed at Port Kembla.
Commonwealth Aircraft Corpora-
tion Pty. Ltd. in which your Com-
pany is a shareholder, had a
a successful year, the turnover be-
ing greater than that for the
previous year.
A further order for 21 Avon/
Sabre jet fighters has been
received, thus extending the pro-
gramme until 1961.
The Company has embarked on
an agricultural aircraft project and
two (2) prototypes have been com-
pleted and are now being demon-
strated to prospective purchasers.
Other commercial work has assis-
ted to balance the work-load in
the factory during the slowing
down of defence orders for air-
craft.
Although the Government has
reiterated its policy in favour of
a local aircraft industry, a deci-
sion is still awaited on the next
major project, the absence of which
presents a problem in the retention
of specially trained professional
and skilled employees.
Since our other principal invest-
ments are in public Companies
whose Reports and Accounts are
published, I do not propose to
comment on their activities.
MINE
382.272 tons of ore were extrac-
ted from all sections of the Mine
as compared with 393,351 tons for
the previous year. This reduction
in tonnage was due to the adop-
tion of a nine-day working fort-
night for reasons to which I shall
refer later in this address.
As was anticipated last vear,
progress in the sinking of No. 3
Shaft has continued to be rela-
tively slow owing to the faulted
nature of the rocks encountered.
Unfortunately, no immediate
improvement can be expected.
However, considerable progress
lias been made with the installa-
tion of tlie permanent shaft equip-
ment. Until recently, it had been
planned to bring No. 3 shaft into
operation as a main haulage and
service shaft towards the end of
1960. but it is now likely that this
will have to be postponed.
Ore reserves at the 30tli .Tune,
1958, were estimated at 4,588,000
tons being 258.000 tons less than
at the end of June, 1957. The
greater part of the fall in ore
reserves lias taken place at the
North Section where the slow pro-
gress of No. 3 Shaft has limited
the amount of developmental work
possible in the ore bodies. The ore
reserves at the and
Thompson Shafts have been
depleted and mining operations in
the British Junction Section are
now confined to the Junction area
where the ore is hauled through
Browne Shaft.
During the period under review,
14.049 feet of diamond drilling
were completed in the operating
sections of the Mine. Most of this
was undertaken to delineate further
the lode below the present mine
levels, and you were no doubt
pleased to have read in the Annual
Report that a widening of the
orebody is indicated below the
3370 feet level. This work is still
proceeding.
Exploration work lias been con-
tinued on the areas North of the
De Bavay Fault. These are being
completely remapped and further
diamond drilling is in progress.
This information will be used in
conjunction with the results of an
aerial photographic and geophysi-
cal survey which was recently
completed.
During the year, the Mill was
converted from a gravity-flotation
circuit to all-flotation. After a
number of trial runs, the new
Circuit began continuous operation
on Ist July.
Results for the first three months
showed worthwhile savings in
operating costs and recoveries of
lead and silver were comparable
with the previous year. The zinc
recovery has been a littie lower
but it is expected to improve with
further operating experience.
The grade of ore sent to the Mill
improved towards the end of the
financial year. This was largely
due to the closer control of sloping
operations in areas of ore of
marginal grade in the North
Section of the Mine and, to a lesser
extent, to the changes made in the
British Junction Section.
Due to the non-replacemeut of men
who retired or resigned, there was
a reduction of 138 men in the
Company’s work force at Broken
Hill during the year. There will
be a further reduction of approxi-
mately 120 men during the first
half of the present financial year
largely owing to retrenchments
consequent upon the closing of
Blackwood and Thompson Shafts,
the change in the Mill circuit to all-
flotation and the substantial com-
pletion of the essential capital
works at No. 3 Shaft.
Financial assistance to various
welfare and community organisa-
tions at Broken Hill has been cur-
tailed to some extent as a result
of the economic situation.
The construction of the new
headquarters for the Mining
Managers’ Association was com-
pleted during the year. The new
building, which was officially
opened on lltli April, 1958, takes
the place of the leasehold premises
which the Association had
occupied for many years and which
it had outgrown.
The 75th Anniversary of the dis*.
eovery of the Broken Hill lode
fell in September last. The
occasion was celebrated by the
whole community _ and the city
was honored by tlie presence of
the Governor of New South Wales
Lieutenant General Sir Eric Wood-
ward. K.C.M.G., C. 8., C.8.E.,
D.S.O. and Lady Woodward and
other distinguished visitors. To
commemorate the Anniversary a
special postage stamp was issued
by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment.
GENERAL
As to the marketing of our pro-
ducts, our lead and ziuc concen-
trates were, as usual, sold to The
Broken Hill Associated Smelters
Pty. Ltd. and the Electrolytic Zinc
Company of Australasia Limited
respectively.
Of the lead sales by the Smelters
during the year under review, 20
per cent was sold in Australia,
27 per cent, was sold to the United
Kingdom and 38 per cent, to Ihe
United States of America, the
balance going to other countries.
The average price for lead sales
during the year was £A9I/13/1,
compared with £AI3I/9/2 for the
year to the 30th June, 1957.
That portion of our output of
silver not required for the Aus-
tralian market was sold through
the United Kingdom market. The
average price received for silver
was A.7/11.1 an ounce compared
with A.B/1.5 for the previous year.
At the last Annual Meeting,
(Continued next page)


The 10,616 tons (up 2150
tons) of blister copper pro-
duced had a fine-metal content
as follows:
Copper, Silver, Gold,
Tons. Oz. Oz.
1956* .. 5358 24,236 2993
1957 . . 8404 29,547 552 S
1958 . . 10,537 39,315 6244
* Nine months only.
In addition a record 66,558
tons (up 8531 tons) of pyritic
concentrates were produced,
sales (including those to the
associated fertiliser cos.) reach-
ing a new peak.
Exploration work, both
individually and in partner-
ship with Electrolytic Zinc,
showed some interesting
results, diamond-drilling within
the co.’s own leases indicating
that there is at least 50,000,000
tons of 1 p.c. copper
below the proposed floor
of the West Lyell opencut
and a further 5,000,000 in the
North Corridor area. The
latter orebody includes some
5 p.c. ore, and the possibilities
of working this deposit are
being investigated. There was,
however, no recalculation of
ore reserves, which, at
41,319,000 tons, averaging
0.74 p.c. copper, dropped by
the amount of ore extracted.
Higher output and improved
grades, together with a £lO per
ton increase in the value given
to the much higher metal
stocks (up approximately 1000
tons and valued at £3OO a ton),
offset the £3B slip in the
average price received for
copper sold and lifted mine
“income” by £385,113 to
£3,607,567. Mine profit, after
allowing for the employees’
bonus of £61,925, was £41,115,
compared with a £230,962
deficit in the previous term,
investment income, £9045
stronger at £262,102, taking net
profit less bonus, to £303,217,
an improvement of £281,122: —■
June 30, June 30,
Income— 1957. 1958.
Copper, etc. ~ £3,222,454 £3,007,507
Dividends . . 253,057 262,102
Total . . £3,475,511 £3,869,069
Exes.-
Mining . . 1,501,410 f,451,016
Milling, refining,
smelting . . 1,508,832 1,623,666
Development, de-
preciation . . 196,419 265,814
Administration,
etc. . . 104,310 134,031
Total . . £3,310,971 £3,504,527
Net profit . . 164,540 365,142.
Employee bonus 142,445 61,925
Dividends ) p.c. 6.6 8.75
(amt. £155,000 £203,437
Mining costs dropped by
2s. lOd. to 14s. 9d. per ton of
ore extracted (the higher pro-
portion of ore to overburden
contributing to this gain), con-
centrating-, smelting- and
refining-costs adding-up to
£152.9 (down £25.3) per ton
of blister copper, actually pro-
duced.
Part of the larger profit was
tied-up in metal stocks (up
£304,125 at £1,288,394), but the
excess of current assets over
current liabilities increased by
only i £45,753 during the year
(to £1,266,550), an extra
£218,399 showing against over-
draft and deposits.
Investments, at cost or under,
figure in the balance-sheet at
£3,031,104 the deferred liability
remaining at £1,150,000. Paid
capital, £2,325,000, is all in £1
stock units.
reference was made to the severe
fall in world lead and zinc prices
during the preceding six-months.
The reasons for the lower prices
were traversed by the Chairman
who referred to the influence of
postwar shortages and Govern-
ment stockpile buying in stimulat-
ing production and the later
effects of the reversal of that policy
by the United States and United
Kingdom Governments.
Those factors, together with the
prolonged Industrial recession in
the United States, have continued
to have their effects. By early
December, 1957, the London Metal
Exchange price for lead had fallen
to about £A9O and for zinc to £A7B
a ton. Since then, the prices of
both metals have varied only a few
pounds up or down from these
levels.
Over-production is still the domi-
nant feature of the world markets
for lead and zincs and it has been
ever since Government stockpiles
ceased to absorb world production
Which was in excess of that re-
quired for industrial consumption.
For reasons mainly associated with
the policy of United States pro-
ducers. whereby they endeavoured
to maintain domestic lead and zinc-
prices at a higher level than the
London Metal Exchange prices
after allowing for freight and duty,
excess supplies of both metals —
particularly lead —have flowed to
the United States, with consequent
distress to the lead-zinc industry
in that country.
As a result, the United States
lead-zinc industry applied to the
Administration for protection.
The question was referred to the
Tariff Commission which made two
recommendations to the President,
each supported by half the
members of the Commission. One
recommendation was for a further
duty of 1.4875 cents a pound of lead
and 1.40 cents a pound of zinc
(equivalent to £AI4/17/6 and
£AI4/0,/0 per long ton respectively)
together with severe import restric-
tions while the other recommenda-
tion was for an increase in duty
only of 1.0625 cents a pound of lead
and 1.05 cents a pound of zinc
(equal to £AIO/12/0 and £AIO/10/-
per long ton).'
Neither of these recommendations
was acceptable at that stage to
the Administration which then in-
troduced a Bill, known ;is the
Season Bill, proposing substantial
subsidies for domestic lead and
zinc- producers in lieu of tariff pro-
tection. The Bill was rejected bv
Congress.
Industrial consumption of lead
and zinc in the world was main-
tained at a high level in 1957 when
world usings were greater than in
1956 despite the marked drop in
United States consumption. Stat-
istics of world industrial consump-
tion for the first half of 1958 are
not yet available, but there is no
doubt that, when available, they
will disclose usings appreciably
below the first half of 1957 mainly,
if not entirely, because of the fall
in United .States usings.
It is correct to say that, except
for the effects of the prolonged in-
dustrial recession in the United
States of America, consumption
has been satisfactory but. even if
there had been no falling-off in
United States consumption, world
industrial usings would not have
been sufficient to absorb the quan-
tity of metal which has become
available through greater produc-
tion and the cessation of stock-
pile buying.
Very clearly, therefore, the
present problem is one of over-
production. and to correct this
position rational re-adjustments of
output are necessary to safeguard
the industry. In this belief the
Broken Hill Mining Companies
have already taken steps—which
have been announced—to reduce
the supply of metal being pro-
duced from the field, firstly, by a
reduction of one-tenth in the work-
ing time at Broken Hill, and,
secondly, by a reduction of 15 per
cent, in the output of The Broken
Hill Associated Smelters at Port
Pirie.
Cuts in production have also
been made by other producers but
some have continued at the same
rate or have even increased pro-
duction. Your Board believes that
all producers should take part in
trying to balance world offerings
of metal with the demand for it
and that failure to do so will, unless
there is a big rise in consumption,
result either in further restric-
tions beig placed on international
trade in lead and zinc or in the:
building-up of a very substantial
selling pressure with consequences
difficult to predict, or both.
At the recent United Nations con-
ference in London on the world
trade in lead and zinc, it was
generally agreed in principle that
immediate steps should be taken to
limit exports of both metals.
Further discussions between the
representatives of interested
countries are about to take place
in Geneva, and I consider that it
is inappropriate that I should en-
deavour to predict the outcome of
such talks or to comment on them
beyond saying that your Board
would support the adoption of any
fair and reasonable scheme of
limitation.
There is no doubt that a greater
sense of urgency and importance
has been given to these discussions
by the recent decision of the United
States Government to impose
quotas on imports of lead and zinc
either as metals or contained in
concentrates. The quotas are
based on imports for the years
1953-1957 excluding those in respect
of sales to Government stockpiles.
This basis is disadvantageous to
the Broken Hill Mining Industry
because its sales were increasing
over the five base y r ears and it was
a substantial supplier to the stock-
piles.
Therefore, the United Stales
quotas, as they’ stand, will appreci-
ably affect our opportunities of
selling lead in that country, but it
appears, both from President
Eisenhower’s statement at the time
of the imposition of the quotas
'and from his subsequent letter to
the Prime Minister of Australia,
that the United States Government
is anxious for a satisfactory anil
equitable solution to be found to
the present problems arising from
over-production in the lead-zinc
industry and that, if such a solu-
tion is found, there would be some
prospect of the quotas proving to
be but a temporary expedient for
the protection of America’s own in-
dustry.
So far, in the current financial
year, prices' for our products have
been lower than those for 1957/
1958. Our lead sales will, of course,
be somewhat restricted under the
arrangement by which the output
of the Port Pirie Smelters has
been reduced by 15 per cent.
However, we are selling our
whole output of zinc concentrates
most of which is used in the pro-
duction of zinc for the Australian
market. Both in regard to prices
and sales, much will depend on the
outcome of the conference at
Geneva between world producing
and consuming countries to which
1 have referred.
At the present time, rail trans-
port charges form an unduly high
proportion of the Broken Hill In-
dustry’s total costs of production.
By comparison with the rail
freights payable in other places for
similar traffic the total per ton
mile cost of taking our products
to Port Pirie and of bringing the
supplies to Broken Hill is very
high indeed.
Approximately 30 per cent, of
the South Australian Railways
Freight revenue is derived from
Broken Hill traffic in concentrates,
ores, fuel oil and supplies for the
city and mines. Almost all of this
is related to the 218 miles of line
between the South Australian
border and Port Pirie. The other
70% comes from approximately
2,.'!()() miles of railway.
Kail Freights paid by the Broken
Hill Mining Industry for the car-
riage of concentrates and fuel over
the 255 mile line between Broken
Hill and Port Pirie amounted to
more than £0.250,000 in the year
1957. Freights are equivalent to
approximately £<> per ton of market
lead and £lO per ton of recover-
able zinc.
A contributory cause of these
high freights is the age and very
inadequate nature of the Oft. (Sin.
gauge line connecting Broken Hill
and Port Pirie. It was laid over
70 years ago and only relatively
small train loads can be hauled
over the greater part of it.
It is to be hoped that early
action will be taken to convert the
Port Pirie—Adelaide line and lay
a modern standard gauge railway
between Broken Hill and Port
Pirie. Such a line would enable
very dramatic reductions to be
made in the cost of transporting
our products and supplies, and at
the same time, would, I believe,
greatly benefit the growing indus-
trial potential of South Australia
by giving it a modern and efficient
link with the industrial areas of
the East coast.
As a result of economies at the
Mine, and also because of im-
proved efficiencies and the higher
grade of ore being mined, the Mine
Working Account will, if present
conditions continue, show a better
result than in 1957/1958. However,
because the rate of Mine produc-
tion is considerably in excess of
our share of the Smelters’ reduced
output, we shall have on hand at.
the end of the financial year a
greatly increased stock of unsold
lead concentrate the production of
which will have had to be financed.
Your Board is following the
policy of producing to capacity
within the reduced working time,
firstly, because if will result in a
lower average cost in respect of
Concentrates sold, and, secondly,
because the increased stock of
Lead Concentrates being produced
at little added extra cost will, we
feel confident, prove a valuable
asset at some future date.
It is realised that as a result of
this policy, a significant portion of
the financial resources available to
the Company could well be locked
up in these Concentrate stocks but,
none-the-less, it is felt that the
Company is in a position to
undertake this responsibility and
that it will be to the advantage of
everyone connected with the Com-
pany to do so under present con-
ditions.
STAFF.
I will conclude by saying that
we as shareholders should record
our appreciation of the valuable
and loyal service given l>y r the
Company’s staff during the year.


Satvation's Try
By BARRY MITCALFE
Way out in the west the
sun was giving up the
ghost. The moon
walked up the sky as
if she owned the place. It was
a Saturday.
Not that it made any
difference to those two
characters. But it did to us.
We had played the last game
of the season, and were wind-
ing-up with an all-night session.
We thought we were
winding-up, bu t Salvation
Jones seemed to have other
ideas.
Salvation swings a paunch
and shaves once a week. The
women of the district would
gladly crucify him. “You, too,
can have a body like mine,”
he says, legs apart, puffing out
his belly, “if you’re not too
flaming careful.” His face is
as ‘ ugly and as good-natured
as sin. “Beauty is only skin
dope,” he says ; “I’d sooner be
myself.”
He rarely works. “Work
only makes a man bitter. I
don’t wanta spoil me good
nature.”
The farm his father owned
before him grows more un-
kempt every day. “I don’t
mind and it doesn’t mind, so
why should anybody else
mind?” He downs more
whisky than water, but the
drink has never downed him.
He plays football like a bull-
dozer with boots.
If a player on the other side
starts putting in the dirt, Sal-
vation taps him on the
shoulder, and says, “I’m
watching you, boy.” That
quietens them. One look at
Salvation, an armor-plated
battleship of a man, with head-
gear, noseguard, shoulder-
pads, knee-bandages and shin-
pads, and the opposition
generally shrivels. An occa-
sional iconoclast has been heard
to say he’s all show, but no
one dares say it louder than
a whisper. Actually he may be
past his prime, but his reputa-
tion isn't.
Like tonight.
A swag of Waparoa seniors
had dropped over from
their bash. They gaffed for
about an hour, pausing only
to punctuate with an occa-
sional glass of our good beer.
Being the end of the season
and having won the last game
against us, they decided it was
time to forget the old rivalry
between the two districts and
offer the condescending hand
of friendship.
At last their cobbers came
to drag them back to their old
stamping-ground, but it was no
good ; the whole lot decided
to make themselves at our
place.
One of them was saying,
“Actually, you chaps were un-
lucky to lose,” when Salvation
broke in: “You won the last,
we won the first game, so”— —
“You didn’t call that first
game football, did you? It
was only a friendly”
“Nah, not football. Just a
flaming massacre.”
Everyone fell silent, as if they
were looking for a fight.
“There’s only one way to
settle it,” said Salvation. “Play
the final game right here and
tonight.”
“Yeah. And what about a
ref.?”
“We’ll play you real dinkum
football. Just like it was in the
beginning, before the law-and-
order Johnnies got hold of her
and trimmed her claws. Now,
some say football began at
Rugby when one boy ran with
the ball. But I’ve been reading
that it began with two neigh-
boring districts, just like you
fellers and us, see, and the
first district to get the ball into
the other’s main street stayed
there and had a real jamboree.”
“Now hold on, Salv. It’s
eight miles from Waparoa to
Whatawhiwhi. Long way to
go for a try.”
“Who said anything about
any eight miles? How far is
it, Sam, from your party to
ours?”
“Four miles, I reckon.”
“About four by road.
That’ll be two, straight up the
valley.”
“By gum, yes.”
“Well, we’ll play from our
party to yours, if you’re game,
and the winner is made wel-
come. Right?”
“Sounds all right. But why
not play for a ten-gallon?”
“What! That’s making the
game serious.”
“The bridge is about half-
way,” George broke in. “We
could begin there.”
“I’ll bring me tractor down.
Help with the scrums”
“All players on foot.”
“Now we’ve got a rule,” said
Hawhaw. “I’ll go ref. to look
after it, if you like.”
“Come, come,” roared Salva-
tion. “We all know each other
here. No need of refs.”
“What about a ball?”
“Pigs’ bladders, they used to
use.”
“Lay off me pigs,” said
George. “I’ve got a ball.”
“Now the party's moving,”
Salvation said. “We’ll see you
boys at the bridge.”
TS7HEN they left, George
rummaged out his old
clothes and distributed them.
“Real Unnra trousers, these,”
muttered Willy the Kid, hold-
ing up a pair of ragbags.
While they togged-up, the
fellows worked out a few
moves.
“If they break through,”
said George, “we’ll have fellows
posted over in the karakas,
ready to intercept.”
“Leave a dozen beer there,
and we’ll have it on,” said Pete
and Max.
“If we break through, give
it to the fastest man.”
-“That’s the story,” roared
Salvation, as we began to file
out into the moonlight.
“Remember, anything goes,
forward-passes, late tackles.”
“We’ll begin with a scrum-
down, eh?”
“Sure thing. Fair smack in


r-»
*
*
A
s
c
NEW ISSUE
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LTD.
Australia's Leading Hire Purchase Organisation, announces a new issue of
RCCISTIRCD FIRST MORTCACI DEBENTURE STOCK '
7% p.a. . • 6 yrs.
64% p.a. • • 4 yrs.
54% p.a. • • 2 yrs.
5% p.a. ... I yr.
4i% p.a. 0.9 mths.
4% p.a. * * 6 mths.
3 2% p*a. •. 3 mths,
I.A.C. guarantees fixed quarterly income, free of exchange. For full details, see Prospectus.
These are facts that the wise investor should know.
PAID UP CAPITAL
£i0,000,000
ASSETS EXCEED
£55,000,000
A copy of the Prospectus has been
lodged with the Registrar General
in all Capital Cities and Canberra.
Our Auditors, Messrs. L. B. Wallace & Son,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.) wish to state
that as at 31st July, 1958, the amount of issued
Debenture Stock was £23,346,090 secured by a
first floating charge over the tangible assets
of the Company which amounted to
£58,626,014 at that date.
Your copy of the Prospectus is available from Members of Stock Exchanges, 703
Branches of A.N.Z. Bank Limited or I.A.C. Branches.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
(Established 28 years)
MELBOURNE • SYDNEY • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART • CANBERRA
• NEWCASTLE • GEELONG • WOLLONGONG • BUNBURY
Underwriting Brokers: Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders:
lan Potter & Co., The Perpetual Executors & Trustees Association
Melbourne, Canberra & Sydney. of Australia Limited.
D9B
the middie of the bridge. Don’t
forget to handle in the scrum.”
“Speaking of handle, old
man, pass it over,”
But there were two bottles
left as the car approached the
bridge.
“Better get rid of this stuff.
Nobody want it?” asked Sal-
vation, biting off the tops and
spitting them out the window.
“Bit of fuel,” he breathed, and
downed the first bottle. “Gettin’
rid of the evidence”—and the
second bottleful went down.
The Waparoans were wait-
ing, packed on the bridge. They
seemed to have more men than
ns. One stepped forward, while
the rest hurled abuse in the
ancient manner. Salvation
emerged to meet him.
They confabulated, then
turned and yelled, “Scrum-
down here, boys. All in. No
holds barred.” And before
Salvation or McCarthy, their
captain, could move, they were
caught in the middle.
“Come on, open-up,” roared
McCarthy, but it was no use —
he had to beat a hole in the
scrum with his leg-of-mutton
fist before he could drop the
ball in.
“Weight, boys, weight.”
yelled their captain, as he
crawled over their backs. The
weight went in and the scrum
collapsed, nearly taking the old
bridge with it.
Unnoticed, the headlights of
a car swung onto the bridge,
lighting up a grotesque tangle
of arms and legs. With a shriek
of gears, the car shot into
reverse, swung onto the road
and around, locked its bumper
with something in the dark-
ness behind, and whirled back
the wav it had come, dragging
half Wilson’s fence with it.
The scrum rose up again,
bulging the sides of the bridge.
An occasional shriek and
splash announced the depar-
ture of non-essential men.
Salvation just managed to grab
Willy the Kid as he was going
overboard.
“Same old trouble,” he said.
“Breaking too soon.”
Both teams lost men, but
neither lost ground. The
scrum collapsed again. From
the deflated ruins rose Salva-
tion, clutching a ball and try-
ing to run, but they dragged
him down. ' Once again the
bullock-throated roar went up:
“Weight, weight!”
Willy the Kid, tucked under
Salvation’s arm, was feeling
like the meat in a sandwich.
How long would it last? Then
he had his bright idea.
“Salvation,” he called. But
Salvation couldn’t hear; his
yells were lost amongst the
grunts and groans of the pack.
Desperate situations demand
desperate remedies. He bit
Salvation severely on the arm.
“Willie,” said Salvation
reproachfully, “I’m on your
side, man.”
“I’ve got an idea,” yelled
Willie. “Give me that ball
and help me get clear of the
scrum. Then keep ’em occu-
pied while I swim across the
river.”
“That’s the story. Outflank-
ing movement under cover of
diversionary attack, what!”
So Salvation carefully laid
Willie and the ball down and
hooked them both. “Hook,
hook! Rake him out!” roared
Salvation.
Willie was hacked clear. He
crawled in a daze around the
hairy forest of legs until he
found his feet, pulled what was
(Continued on page 45)


VALUE IN THE POUND
A favorite gibe levelled at the
Prime Minister during the election
campaign has been, “Why didn’t
you put value back in the pound?”
The slogan which inspires the question
was a very useful one for Menzies and
his party in 1949. Reminding him of it
has been a source of joy and pleasure to
his opponents at every successive election
since.
The Menzies of 10 years ago spoke
disparagingly of the “Chifley pound,”
pointing out its low purchasing-power
in comparison with the pre-war quid.
Labor speakers today gleefully claim that
the Chifley pound, sickly though it
seemed at the time, was worth more
than the Menzies pound of 1958.
On the face of it their case seems
unassailable, yet the results of three elec-
tions indicate that the people of Australia
don’t really believe it.
In 1949 the retail-price index the
man-in-the-street’s guide to the value of
his pound—stood at 1415. By 1951 it
had risen to 1883, yet the people gave
the Menzies Government a majority in
both Houses. The index continued to
rise—in fact, it soared —and by 1954 had
reached 2326. At the election in that
year the electors again plumped for
Menzies. In the 18 months between
that election and the next, in December,
1955, the rate of climb of the c.-0.-l.
index slowed-down, but by election-time
it had reached 2393, an increase of 59
per cent, since the first accession to
power of the Menzies Government. Yet
back came that Government with a
record majority.
What is the explanation? If today’s
pound buys less than it did in 1955 and
1954 and 1951 and 1949, why haven’t
the people thrown-out the Government?
The only answer seems to be that they
feel they are better off now than in 1949.
Their pound-notes buy less, but they’ve
got more of ’em.
To begin with, there were two kinds
of pound circulating at the end of the
Chifley regime. There was the official
pound received by the wage-earner in
his pay-envelope, which in theory could
buy goods at the prices reflected in the
retail-price index. In practice, as anyone
whose memory reaches back 10 years
can testify, it did nothing of the sort.
The goods simply weren’t there to buy,
or, at any rate, not with the sort of
pound that came out of a pay-envelope.
There were shortages of all kinds of
consumer-goods. Housewives have not
forgotten the frustrations of doing the
family shopping in those days. The long
waits in queues, as often as not to no
purpose ; the monotonous repetition of
“Sorry, out of stock,” “in short supply,”
“expecting some next week” or, accus-
ingly, “only for regular customers.”
But for those who possessed the other
sort of pound—the kind that was kept
at the back of the wardrobe or under
the carpet, or, among the bigger boys,
in safe-deposits (the money that didn’t
come out of a nay-envelope or go into
the income-tax returns) there were no
shortages. The men with the right sort
of money could get anything. Scarcity
didn’t worry the blackmarketeers, the
sly-grog men, “Peter and George,” the
under-the-counter merchants and the
spivs. They thrived on it.
T>RICES have risen steeply during the
Menzies regime, but so have wages
and, despite the protestations of Labor
politicians to the contrary, wages have
risen to a greater degree than prices.
The Commonwealth Statistician, a
gentleman who deals in cold figures,
not hot political arguments, publishes
periodically a table relating to wage- and
price-levels. This is termed the index
of real wages. When the Menzies Govern-
ment took office this index stood at 1148 ;
at the end of June this year the figure
was 1236.
This increase in a decade is not spec-
tacular, but at least it gives the lie to
the Labor claim that the condition of
the wage-earner has deteriorated while
Labor has been in Opposition. More-
over, the improvement has occurred
during a p&riod of general inflation.
In deprecating inflation Labor blames
Menzies and paints a pretty picture, of
stability under the Chifley-Evatt Govern-
ment. The picture is false. The apparent
stability of the early postwar years was
made possible only by the use of strait-
jacket controls. It was a fictitious
stability, based on shortages. By the
time Labor went out of office the struc-
ture had cracked and was crumbling.
One by one the controls were going
and, failing increased production—which
Labor did nothing to encourage and
much to inhibit —the truth about prices
could no longer be concealed. Inflation
was on the march.
Under Labor the coal-shortage was
coming to be accepted as the
Communist-controlled Miners’ Federa-
tion openly intended it to be—as a per-
manent feature of the economy. Black-
outs, power-failures and public-transport
breakdowns were a commonplace;
power was rationed even to industry;
two States were importing overseas coal.
On to this pattern of creeping paralysis
was tacked the 40-hour week, originally
an election-bribe handed out by a N.S.W.
Labor Government with a shaky
majority, almost in contempt of the
Federal Arbitration Court, which was
then hearing a trade-union claim for that
very thing. What influence this fait
accompli and the Chifley Government’s
support of the trade-union claim had on
the Federal court’s decision will never
be known, but they were obviously
factors which had to be given due weight.
In his 1949 policy-speech Menzies
rightly said that the only way back to
prosperity was by increased production.
Labor, unfortunately, has always seemed
to regard increased production as a ruse
to get more work out of men for the
same wage.' In the long-run, wage-
increases, whether in the basic wage,
margins, overtime, bonuses or arty other
form are of no lasting value unless they
are paid for in increased productivity;
otherwise they merely force-up prices and
defeat their own purpose.
In its 10 years of office the Menzies
Government has had to contend with
many factors that made the path to in-
creased production difficult. There was
the Korean war, the phenomenal rise
in wool prices, which brought on a
spending-spree, and the subsequent drop
with its accompanying fall in overseas
funds. This was the occasion for drastic
import-restrictions and the so-called
Horror Budget, which in fact was a
courageous step taken in the face of bitter
criticism from many of the Government’s
own supporters. There has been the
continued need for vast, unproductive
defence-spending ; there have been huge
increases in the bill for social services,
to be paid for out of national produc-
tion.
TO what extent then has the Govern-
ment been able to carry - out its
resolve to encourage production? And
to what extent has the encouragement
borne fruit?
The two big production bottlenecks
in 1949 were coal and steel. Virtually
all secondary industry depended on coal
and much of it also depended on steel.
The following table tells its own story:
1948-49. 1957-58.
Black coal (thousand tons) .. 14,843 20,372
Brown coal ” ” 7,027 10,869
Pig-iron ” ” .. 1,045 2,284
Steel ingots ” ” 1,178 3,106
Coke ” ” .. 1,150 2,345
This improvement had its effect right
throughout industry. Electrical - power
output in 1949 was 9053 - million
kilowatt-hours; in 1957-58 the figure
was 19,796 k.w.h. In the building in-
dustry brick-production grew from 617
million to 881 million; cement from
1031-million tons to 2320-million tons;
fibrous - plaster sheets from 13,234,000
sq. yds. to 16,702,000 sq. yds.; roofing-
tiles from 72.5 million to 107.7 million ;
sawn timber from 1184-million super, ft.
to 1400 super, ft.
The tale can be repeated in almost
every industry —domestic appliances, tex-
tiles, motor - cars, farm - machinery,
petroleum products —hardly a branch of
industry can be cited that has not greatly
increased its output. This result has not
been achieved by Government control,
as envisaged by the Socialist planners of
pre-1949, but by encouraging private
enterprise and by providing the sort of
stability that attracts overseas capital to
Australia.
When the hecklers shout “Why didn’t
you put value back into the pound?”
Menzies can, with some justification,
reply that he has. And on the indications
it looks very much as if the electors will
once more agree with him when they go
to the polls on November 22.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Flemington Round-up
Many knowledgeable racing
men had thought that Mel-
bourne Cup. winner Baystone
would not get a solidly- run
two miles with 8.9 —with 7.10
in the Brisbane Cup and 8.3 in
the Sydney Cup he had faded
over the last bit. Trainer Jack
Cjreen, however, believed the
gelding’s stamina was increas-
ing with maturity, and the run-
ning of the Cup proved him
right.
••• . •
From the winner’s angle, the
Cup story is simply told.
Drawn well in a field, where
most of the fancied candidates
drew badly, Baystone enjoyed
an unchequered run. He went
very kindly for Mel
Schumacher, settled down
about tenth to the half-mile,
gradually made up ground to
be fourth as they straightened-
up, and came down the out-
side of Monte Carlo and Red
Pine to win comfortably, a
length and a half to Monte
Carlo, three more to Red Pine,
just in front of the fast-
finishing Yeman.
For 21-year-old Mel Schu-
macher, the win capped a
memorable spring. He had
won the A.J.C. Derby on Sky-
line, and the Epsom on Turk-
estan. He took with him in
his Cup ride a sound piece of
advice from Jim Pike, nowa-
days assistant to- Jack Green:
“Stay away from the rails in
the straight. In the Cup that’s
where you strike trouble from
beaten horses dropping back.”
Baystone is a six-year-old
bay gelding by Brimstone (a
son of English Derby-winner
Dante) from Unity, who was a
daughter of Miss England, a
half-sister to the great Heroic.
Miss England was by Sea
Prince, most of whose stock
have been able to stay, includ-
ing The Rover, Australian Cup
winner in 1921.
Baystone is raced by a family
combination, R. Burns and
his sons Norman and Alan.
All are shearing-contractors at
Narromine (N.S.W.). The
gelding, for whom they gave
llOOgns. as a yearling, is the
first horse they have raced.
Baystone presaged his Cup
success with a win in the Hot-
ham Handicap on Derby Day,
and again emphasised the
value of that race as a Cup
pointer. Sinqe 1943, Dark Felt,
Sirius and Foxzami have won
the same double.
The unfortunate aspect of
the Cup was the shocking run
experienced by 9-to-4 favorite
Yeman. From 29 barrier, he
was never out of trouble, and
came back to scale bleeding
from a chest wound and
stripped about both hind-legs.
Time for the Cup was
against the record of 3.19|.
The good two-year-old filly
Faithful City, winner of the
“If it's that big—let it go!”
Mimosa Stakes on Cup Day,
became the first two-year-old
in Australia to score three wins
this season. She is unbeaten.
She has proved a bargain-buy
at the 600gns. she cost English-
T. Dwyer, and a great
advertisement for new sire
Orgoglio, who in his first
season has got eight winners.
Trainer Harry Bird believes
Faithful City is unusually
good, and will how put her
away to tackle the colts in the
V.R.C. and A.J.C. Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes in the autumn.
The seven furlongs of those
races will suit her admirably ;
she has finished full of running
in all her races.
• • • •
His understandable desire to
win a Derby cost owner H. G.
Raymond the pleasure of win-
ning the Oaks. His filly, But
Beautiful, ran a courageous
third in the Derby, but the
effort took its toll, and in the
Oaks last Thursday she was
soundly beaten into second
place by Chicola, with Miss
Glory third.
Chicola traces back to a
sister of The Trump, winner
of the Caulfield-Melbourne
Cups double in 1937. Chicola
is by Empyrean from Libyan
Lass by Caithness from Manna
(The Trump’s sister) by Man-
fred. Chicola has now won
four times from eight starts.
The ride on Chicola completed'
a good double for Bill William-
son —he won the Derby on Sir
Blink. It was the second year
in a row that the Oaks has
produced a major upset. Last
year Amneris started at odds-
on and finished last.
• • • •
There was another case of
“once too often to the well” at
Flemington on Oaks Day. Vic-
toria’s best galloper, Lord, who
has been up since early August,
went out an odds-on favorite
for the mile w.-f.-a. Linlithgow
Stakes, and ran one of the very
few bad races in his record, to
beat only- a couple home.
Brilliant filly Wiggle showed
the benefit of a brief spell to
win the race from another
three-year-old, Webster. The
filly has an outstanding record.
She has raced 14 times for 10
wins, and has earned £21,705.
It was good to see the New-
town Wonder colt Sartorial
Splendour (out of Fashion)»win
the Byron Moore Stakes on
Oaks Day. The colt won at
his first start in the Debutant
Stakes at Flemington last
month, but at his next run
finished a hopeless last. He
was found to have been doped.
He ran the five furlongs of the
Byron Moore >in the brilliant
time of 59y, and easily defeated
the speedy filly Ritmar.
With the Melbourne Spring
Carnival virtually over, honors
of the season stay with local
horses—which has not been the
case in recent years. From
Guineas ' Day at Caulfield,
main races have been the Caul-
field Guineas, Caulfield Cup,
Moonee Valley Cup, V.R.C.
Derby, Melbourne Cup and
the Oalys. Baystone landed the
big one, but all the others were
won by Victorian - trained
gallopers.
• • • •
Melbourne racing goes next
Saturday to Caulfield for the
Williamstown Cup-, a mile-and-
a-half race often regarded as
a consolation-prize for defeated
horses in the Melbourne Cup.
In recent years Claudette, Peter
and Morse Code have
improved on minor placings in
the Melbourne Cup to take the
Williamstown. The race dates
to 1888.
• • • • *
On the same programme is
the mile Sandown Guineas, a
race run for the first time last
year, when Tommy Smith’s
charge Orient won. If Wiggle
runs she should be untroubled
to win.
The £ 1500 Batman Stakes for
three-year-olds, run over the
Derby distance (12 furlongs),
is regarded as a consolation-
stake for horses defeated in
the classic, and, appropriately,
Master Rane, runner-up to Sir
Blink in the V.R.C. Derby,
proved too good in the Bat-
man last Saturday, beating the
South Australian colt Jordan.
Both Master Rane and Jordan
carried 71b. extra, but they
singled out from the rest of
the field, with Master Rane
too solid in the run home.
Apparently his Cup run took
its toll of Monte Carlo, odds-
on' favorite for Saturday's
£5OOO C. B. Fisher Plate ; he
managed only a weak third in
the field of four. Winner was
the three-year-old Blue Book-
let gelding Webster, who had
run a good second to Wiggle
in the Linlithgow Stakes on
Oaks day. In the winter
Webster was Melbourne’s out-
standing two-year-old—he won
six straight, carrying big
weights. At that time Charlie
Wilson had charge of Web-
ster, but since Wilson’s dis-
qualification Tommy Wood-
cock has prepared the gelding.
Ritmar’s unlucky run ended
at Flemington last Saturday.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WARES— In- Divorce.
TO WILLIAM SCOTT (known as
CAMPBELL) late of Naremburn. —TAKE
NOTICE that DAISY MAUDE SCOTT
(known as CAMPBELL) has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3853 of 1958
on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 7th
January 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from
GEOFFREY SEE. GILLIS & CO., Soli-
citors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar. ,
At each of her previous three
starts the speedy Star King-
dom filly had finished second
to a good-class youngster. It
was no surprise to see her
career away with the Ottawa
Stakes, a five-furlongs event for
maiden fillies. Stan Murphy,
trainer of the filly, has a very
high opinion of Ritmar, and
will now spell her, with the
Golden Slipper Stakes at Rose-
hill next Easter the filly's
mission.
* * *
Sydney Racing
My Peter, one of Sydney’s
best sprinters, has won two
races at six furlongs in his last
three starts, successes that sent
his weight to 9.1 for last Satur-
day’s Clissold Handicap at
Canterbury Park. Even at that
poundage My Peter was con-
sidered next-door to a certainty,
and he was made an odds-on
favorite, but weight catches up
with the best of them. He
didn’t get away as well as
usual, and other lightweights
forced him to carry his 9,1
well and truly, and he’d had
enough once the straight was
reached. That all made the
sprint a race to order for
Jester, who pounced on the
pacemakers in the straight and
won easily. Trainer Pat Murray
has Jester in great order.
Having his second race out-
ing in the two-year-old event
won by Romani at Canterbury
Park, Waterflow did well
enough in second place to be
tabbed as an early winner. He
is one of Maurice McCarten’s
team, and had backing which
reduced the odds from 100 to
1 to 25's. The colt is by
Fountain (imp.), whose progeny
are racing in their first season.
Fountain raced in England, and
is by famous sire Nearco, who
was unbeaten as a racehorse.
In the absence of some of
Sydney’s leading horsemen in
Melbourne for the final V.R.C.
day, apprentices did well at
Canterbury Park. S. Farrawell,
who’s indentured to Randwick
trainer Frank Dalton, won suc-
cessive races (on Aqua Khan
and Treasured Link) ; Bernie
Howlett —attached to Frank
McGrath’s Randwick stable —
scored on Jester ; and young
K. Parkinson landed the
Underwood Cup on Astron
(he’s apprenticed to Canterbury
Park trainer Herb McNamara).
Astron ran away with the
Frank Underwood Cup, and
his time reduced the race
record by more than two
seconds. He beat another
veteran, aged Lord Cynara,
with six-year-old Saltillo third.
Respective winners of the
divisions of the Canterbury
Park Belmore Stakes galloped
their way out of restricted
company. Aqua Khan had it
easy in the first division, but
Persian Cloud was all-out to
win her division by a nose.
Aqua Khan was one of the last
lots of the 1956 Randwick
yearling offerings, and there
was no competition for any of
the four colts by Furdan (imp.),
one being sold for 30gns., while
Aqua Khan went for 90gns.
and the other two brought
only 80gns. and 50gns. respec-
tively. So W. R. Hodgekiss,
who bought Aqua Khan, has
found his purchase a bargain,
having already won several
races with him, two from his
last three starts ; and judging
by the ease of his latest win
he should soon add to his
earnings in Welter company.
Aqua Khan (a four-year-
old black entire) is from the
Genetout mare Dolphin.
Persian Cloud was ridden by
Mel Schumacher, fresh from
his Melbourne Cup victory on
Baystone. Like Aqua Khan,
Persian Cloud was also secured
cheaply as a yearling —when
offered at the same sale she
realised only 120gns. Book-
maker Jack Mandel bred the
mare, who is one o[ the suc-
cessful Persian Book (imp.)
gallopers. She has now won
t-alt-a-dozen races, four from
her last five outings, so she’s
another bargain of the sale-
ring. Percy Gutteridge trains
her at Rosebery and rides her
in most of her work. Her dam,
Skywards (imp.), is by Fair-
way from Great Glory by
Grand Parade or Singapore.
Incidentally, Brisbane
trainer Fred Best won the
opening race at Ipswich last
Saturday, the First Juvenile
Handicap, with another of Jack
Mandel’s breeding —Best Link,
a gelding by Persian Book
(imp.) from Triestina, a winner
at two-years at Randwick. Best
“Pretend not to notice them”
paid llOOgns. for the youngster
as a yearling, and as Best Link
is closely related to several
fast horses of past years, one
of them the brilliant Ready
Aye Ready, he should do well
in sprint events. Ready Aye
Ready's several wins in the
best company included Tatter-
sail’s Carrington Stakes. Best
Link is a brother to Rose of
Persia, a two-year-old winner
at Canterbury Park in record
time. . Istria, a Doncaster
winner, and Styria, an Oaks
winner, also figure in the
pedigree. Triestina was got by
Dashing Cavalier from Pan-
trieste by Peter Pan from Lady
Trieste by Trillion, and has the
Carbine blood in her make-up.
Double Toss, winner of the
Second Ipswich Juvenile
Handicap, is by One Up (imp.)
from Gay Title by High Title.
Brisbane trainer Frank
Kennedy has his top sprinter,
The Corsican, back in top
form: the chestnut added
another win to his list when
he carried 9.12 to victory at
Ipswich, in the Bundamba
Highweight. He was handi-
capped at 10.5; but a 71b.
allowance helped in his vic-
tory.
Most Australian States and
New Zealand having staged the
main classic of the season, the
Derby, Brisbane’s blue riband
is next on the list. New-
Zealand’s Derby Stakes, run
last Saturday, went to Up And
Coming, a gelding by Resurgent
(imp.) from Cash And Carry
by Paper Money (imp.) from
Gold Sand by Psychology
(imp.). Cash And Carry didn’t
race, but Gold Sand won 10
events at up to one mile. The
same afternoon Balfast, a five-
year-old gelding by Balloch
(imp.) from Lucelia, won the
two-miles New Zealand Cup.
* * *
Trots Champ .
Avenging his only defeat in
12 starts at Harold Park (that
was in the previous week’s
Spring Cup), champion pacer
Fettle spreadeagled a top-class
field to win the Harold Park
Invitation Thousand last Satur-
day night.
Starting from the rails posi-
tion on the 12yds.-mark, driver


GO
picture taking . .
and enjoy fun -over again!
vritMte BROWNIE FLASH IT
mm
vi : :.v
•■ES#
808
For picture taking any-
where, anytime, day or
night. There’s a Brownie
Flash II Camera, Brownie
Flasholder, flashbulbs, bat-
teries, Kodak film and full
instructions.
An ideal gift. £5/10/-.
It’s made by
so you know it’s good.
KODAK (AUSTRALASIA) PTY. LTD.
Branches in all States
KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Kodak
Ron Hayes eased Fettle back
and came round on the outside,
running three horses wide for
the first mile, with the pace a
cracker. Pacing brilliantly,
Fettle improved his position
to take the lead with a lap to
go. Burning-off a challenge at
the two-furlongs by Highland
Jan, he rounded the turn into
the straight with a command-
ing lead.
Then he was challenged by
/Gentleman John, 1956 Inter-
Dominion champion, who
ranged up on the outside, with
Sibelia cutting in on the rails,
but a touch of the whip and
Fettle went on to a comfortable
win in the smart time of
3min. 7ysec., giving him a mile
rate of 2.7
Shock of the race was the
failure of heavily - backed
Diabolo Don, who finished a
long last.
* * \ *
The Cricketers
After an easy win over S.A.,
the M.C.C. moved on to Mel-
bourne, to meet a Victorian
side—unlike most Victorian
XFs of the past, almost lacking
in “big” names. The English-
men made their highest innings-
total to date in Australia (396),
with opener Milton, after his
good second-innings 63 not-out
against S.A., making 116 —
though dropped off Meckiff
when 2 —and Subba Row, in
his first big score in Australia,
83. Most 'successful Victorian
bowler was left-arm fast-
bowler Meckiff (4-69), who got
Richardson for 0. Left-arm
spinner Kline was unimpressive
and was punished, having over
100 runs against him before
getting a wicket. Victoria’s
skipper, Test - batsman Mc-
Donald, made a neat first-
innings 54.
Only two members of this
year’s Victorian XI against the
M.C.C. were in the Victorian
side which played the M.C.C.
in the equivalent game in
December, 1954. They are
present skipper Colin Mc-
Donald and ’keeper Len Mad-
docks. In the second M-C.C.-
Victoria game (Feb., 1955)
the pair were joined by a third,
batsman John Shaw. One or
two of the others, like lan
Johnson, have retired, but most
are still playing in Melbourne’s
pennant-cricket, either passed-
over now for State cricket or,
like Bill Johnston and Loxton,
having dropped-out themselves.
Another one, of course, is now
with N.S.W.—Neil Harvey.
In this year’s game between
W.A. and N.S.W. at Syd-
ney Cricket Ground W.A.’s
first-innings top-scorers were
left-hander Shepherd (87) and
skipper Meuleman (51). W.A.
has a long tail, though it can
“wag” at times —Strauss and
Germaine put on an unfinished
70 for the second - innings
ninth-wicket against Queens-
land in W.A.’s previous game,
to help—along with a stylish
128 by W.A.’s other left-
hander, Vernon, in the same
innings —to avoid outright
defeat by Queensland.
(Another factor undoubtedly
contributing to a Queensland
first-innings victory only was
Mackay’s long, dreary and
time-wasting first-innings 133
not-out). Best N.S.W. bowler
in W.A.’s first-innings was
Davidson, who took 4-80 and
bowled without luck.
Sid Carroll looks certain to
qualify as one of that reason-
ably select band, “the best
batsmen who never played
Test-cricket.” On Saturday he
made an enterprising 117
against W.A. Wherk he reached
his century Burke was only
just over half that score (51).
Carroll played the last part
of his knock under difficulties,
with an injured groin-muscle.
Last season’s State skipper has
played some excellent innings
for N.S.W. in recent years.
* * *
All About the Tests
Lately produced for “all
those Australians who, like
us, are interested in the greatest
of all summer games, cricket,”
Rothmans’ “Test Cricket Almanack”
is a neat little booklet which is a
King Size mine of statistical infor-
mation on Australia-England Tests.
The statistics have been compiled
by Sydney Smith, president of the
N.S.W. Cricket Association.
All statistics and averages given
relate only to England-Australia
Tests —the “senior” Tests. Many
of the figures given can’t be checked
without some considerable personal
effort and research, and must be
accepted on face-value —reminding
one of the old gag about there
being 5,769,345,431 stars in the
heavens, “and if you don’t believe
me, count them yourself.” (Such,
for instance, is the information that
the total number of runs scored in
the whole series up to the 1956
Tests is 159,057.)
Still, all the scores already known,
or checked on at random, were
found to be correct—"with one
exception, not, perhaps, so very
serious: former Australian all-
rounder Arthur Chipperfield’s
bowling-figures are given as 5-400
instead of 5-409, obviously only a
printer’s error. There were also
one or two minor misspellings—
Hammence for Hamence, Lyttleton
for Lyttelton.
Just about every conceivable bit
of statistical information concern-
ing the Tests is given. How many
Tests have been won by each
country, on what oval each has
been played, which Tests have seen
the heaviest defeats and which the
closest finishes, how many times
each country has won the toss, the
number ol*centuries scored in the
series, how many runs have been
scored on each Test-ground—these
are but some of the section-
headings. _
One fact which could have been
included is that English opener T. S.
Worthington is the only batsman in
the series to have been dismissed off
the first ball of a Test (1936).
Here are some little-known side-
lights, as given: Charlie Banner-
man made the first run in the first
Test played in Australia, while his
brother, A.C., made the first , run
in the first Test played in England;
six pairs of brothers, if we can
include three Graces, have played
together in the same Test (not the
one Test for all of them, of course);
Vic Trumpet is among the 20 Aus-
tralians who have made a “duck"’
in their first Test, and is also among
the 23 Australians to have got
the “dreaded pair”—he is in good
company among the latter, who
include M. A. Noble, S. E. Gregory,
J. Darling, V. Y. Richardson,
Fingleton, lan Johnson, Neil
Harvey and “Slasher” Mackay;
father and son, E. J. and S. E.
Gregory, each got a “blob” in his
first Test; bowler Hughie Trumble,
who has taken by far the greatest
number of wickets (141) in the
series, has taken the most catches
(43) of Australian fieldsmen —Ham-
mond f 44) has the only greater
number; Englishman W. W. Read,
with 117 in 1884, is the only player
to make a century from No. 10
batting position.
Charlie Bannerman, maker of the
very first Test-century, had, says
the booklet, to retire “hurt” —the
inverted-commas implying that he
wasn’t. It seems, however, that he
was struck a terrific blow by York-
shire all-rounder George Ulyett, and
he really couldn't carry on. The
implication is undoubtedly not
intended.
The booklet of course gives you
the essential facts on all the cham-
pions—Bradman, Hobbs, Hutton,
Laker, Macartney, O'Reilly, Rhodes,
Larwood, Miller, and ail the rest
of them.
Altogether a remarkably wide
coverage of the right sort of help-
ful, authoritative information to
have on hand when the Tests are
in (and on), the air. It has surprises
even for experts.
[Having done this review of it,
we rang the people who turned; it
out and suggested that readers
would probably want to know how
they could get a copy, and we were
told that the booklet, would be
sent free to any reader of this who
writes direct to Rothmans of Pall
Mall (Australia), Ltd., 30 Ferndell
Street, South Granville, Sydney.]
* jp
The 90-hole 1958 Pelaco
golf-tournament was won by
Victorian Peter Thomson, who
had three brilliant rounds be-
tween his opening 74 and a
final 74 for the last 18. These
three rounds included a record-
shattering 63 (8 under par), 64
and 67 for a net 342, to give
him the £650 first-prize by six
strokes from South t African
Gary Player, who got £325 for
his trouble. Bruce Crampton
and Harold Henning shared
third and fourth prize-money
(£350) by finishing level, five
strokes behind Player.
The amateur event was won
by N. 'S. Welshman Barry
Warren, who finished with 359,
one stroke better than young
South Australian Bob Tuohy.
After the tourney Tuohy
announced that he was turning
professional—which means he
will have to play the pro.
circuit for 12 months without
being able to take any prize-
money he may pick-up.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.K. SHIPBUILDING SLUMP
"Dritish shipyards, which
until recently have been
busy with a four-year order-
book while many vessels have
been laid-up because it has
been unprofitable to employ
them, are beginning to feel the
pinch which will probably
bring the shipbuilding situation
into line with the depressed
state of the freight markets.
The position at a glance (by
London “Daily Express”) is
that “the yards need one-and-
three-quarter-million tons of"
new orders every year to keep
them fully occupied. In the
last 12 months they have
obtained about a third of that.”
Commenting on statistics
just published by' the Ship-
building Conference, London
“Financial Times” points out
that “if several large tankers
announced under earlier pro-
grammes are deducted from
the figures, the total tonnage
cancelled in the year ended
September, 1958, exceeded the
total of new orders. The size
of the remaining order-book,
which amounts to nearly six-
million tdns and is worth £B6O
million, may seem to provide a
little comfort, but a substantial
proportion of it can be can-
celled at short notice.
“Even. more disquieting is
the uneven distribution be-
tween the shipyards. While the
-ones, specialising in large cargo-
vessels and tankers have several
years’ work in hand, the out-
look is much gloomier for
those producing smaller types
of vessel. In some cases where
there will be nothing more to
do when existing contracts are
completed there could be
unemployment within si x
months.”
After commenting on some
of the difficulties facing the
industry, the “Financial Times”
adds that, “until recently, there
has been little incentive for
employers to reconsider profit-
margins or for unions to revise
their notoriously archaic
restrictive practices. Both may
have to change their views.
The unions in particular will
have to weigh-up the dis-
advantages of reorganisation
and marginal redundancies
against the greater disadvan-
tages of reducing their industry
to a fraction of its present
size.”
That view is shared by
“Yorkshire Post,” which, after
noting that “the tonnage under
construction for registration
abroad represents only 10 per
cent, of the total tonnage being
built in Britain as compared
with 40 per cent, in September,
1950,” goes on to suggest “the
obvious remedy”:
“If the shipbuilding industry
is to attract orders and with-
stand increasingly fierce com-
petition, then there must be
closer co-operation between
management and men so that
costs can be lowered and
efficiency increased. New tech-
niques and methods of produc-
tion should be introduced.
London "Daily Mail”
“COMRADE, WHAT’S THIS I HEAR ABOUT YOU FLOGGING OUR
PAVILION TO TZVESTIA’?”
Restrictive practices and fre-
quent unofficial stoppages over
trivial matters will only help to
bring about the ruin of the
industry and widespread un-
employment. It is true that we
still build the finest ships in
the world, but quality alone is
not enough: it needs" to be
blended with speed and
economy.”
Writing in London “Daily
Telegraph”—and “filled with'
gloom to-see this great industry
going down the slippery slope,
mainly because the people
engaged in it are not fully alive
to the present world situation”
—Rear-Admiral H. E. Horan
comments that “it must come
as a shock to many to learn
that in 1956, for the first time,
Japan surpassed the United
Kingdom in the tonnage of
ships constructed”:
“What is even more alarm-
ing, she did it again in 1957
and looks likely to repeat: the
performance in 1958. Ger-
many, at present third on the
list of tonnage produced, is
rapidly increasing her output
and looks like overtaking this
country [Britain] in the near
future, probably this year.
“What is interesting in this
is that both Japan and Ger-
many had their shipbuilding
industries totally destroyed at
the end of World War 11. The
fact that they have managed
to resurrect them in a matter
of about 10 years is a great
credit to their managements
and workers, but it is alarming
from the point of view of
British shipbuilders.”
The same writer points out
that “not a single foreign order
has been received by British
shipbuilders in the first eight
months of this year, while the
number of orders (such as it is)
given by both British and
foreign owners to foreign yards
clearly shows that our
[Britain's] yards are losing
ground rapidly in the face of
foreign competition.”
Looking for reasons, Rear-
Admiral Horan notes that
“according to Lloyd’s statistics
the average time for ships in
British yards is 18 months,
whereas in both Japan and Ger-
many it is nine months. It is
true that Italy, Norway, Bel-
gium and Finland take 18
months, and only Spain takes
longer, but none of these
countries is a serious competitor
to the'United Kingdom in the
shipbuilding world. Our chief
competitors give firm delivery-
dates and prices and stick to
them ; and that is not generally
the case with British yards.
“How far this can be blamed
on managements and/or
workers can be judged by the
fact that in the first six
months of this year there have
been 740 stoppages of work in
British yards over trivial
matters, resulting in the loss of
2,250,000 man-hours. Disloca-
tion of work - programmes
follows automatically.
“Contracts for new ships are
also being lost because the
prices quoted by Continental
yards are considerably less than
those in British yards.” ,
Bad as the situation is at
present in the matter of fierce
competition, “ it is going to be-
come fiercer still”:
“The world capacity of ship-
yards is, at the moment, suffi-
cient to replace every existing
ship in the world in 12 years.
The normal life of a ship is
from 20 to 25 years. So there is
an excess of shipyard capacity
which is too great to be
absorbed by any reasonable
trade expansion.
“No one in his right senses
will imagine that Japan and
Germany will meekly close-
down any yards when capacity


179 2
I.N.A. spells "security” to the Businessman
Since 1792 businessmen throughout the world
have associated Insurance Company of North
America with Security. I.N.A. believes in
prompt claims settlement, and the interpretation
of insurance contracts in a spirit of compromise
and reasonableness. They offer a new concept
of security through insurance.
This friendly and co-operative approach is vital
to all businessmen, but particularly vital to the
man whose business is dependent upon his
personal participation.
If you own a business, you need insurance
protection. I.N.A. is here to serve you. so why
not discuss with their experts such protective
cover as: Fire with Consequential Loss of
Profits; Public Risk; Plate Clqss; and Personal
Accident and all Sickness. You will appreciate
the close personal interest that is part of
I.N.A/s approach to its clients’ problems.
I.N.A. is also interested in discussing home
insurance protection. They offer General
Household policies covering Home and
Contents and Personal Effects, as well as
Tourist Travel and Luggage Protection.
They’re experts, too, in Marine policies
(intrastate, interstate and internatibnal).
Let I.N.A.’s 166 years’ experience and 867
million dollars resources offer you security
through insurance.
<a2
K.
7<f
INSURANCE COMPANY OF NORTH AMERICA
Incorporated in U.S.A. with limited Liability.
BRANCHES AT SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBA NE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • AUCKLAND, N.Z.


eventually exceeds demand. On
the contrary, all foreign builders
will redouble their efforts to
secure orders by offering their
customers more attractive
terms. For example, Japan is
now offering not only fixed
prices but purchase on the
‘never-never’ system and, of
course, fixed delivery-dates.”
To compete on that market,
Rear-Admiral Horan concludes,
“the first thing to do is to intro-
duce new techniques to save
time and labor. This requires
capital-outlay. It also means
co-operation on the part of the
trade-unions.
“Then there must be an
immediate improvement both
in managerial and manpower-
efficiency—restrictive practices
must go by the board where-
ever they exist. ‘Unofficial’
stoppages should cease, and this
can only be brought about by
better relations between
management and workers.”
U.K. Car Industry
While British shipbuilders
appear to be facing a major
setback, car-manufaefurers are
sitting very pretty at the
moment. In fact, comments
London “Daily Mail,” “the
automobile industry can justly
claim to be carrying the main
burden of the British economy
on its shoulders”:
“Its story in 1958 has fol-
lowed the pattern of 1957.
Record output. Record home
sales. Record exports. And—
greatest achievement of all —
top foreign seller in the U.S.
market. Throughout the year
cars have been leaving the fac-
tories at the rate of 20,000 a
week. In two years exports to
America have multiplied three
times.
“The remarkable thing is that
the graph has been rising while
other production has been
falling. While coal and steel
output decline, while the rail-
ways suffer a serious drop in
freight-traffics, the car-trade
breaks new records.
“What is the reason? For
answer we must go back to
1956, when the post-war car-
hunger had been largely satis-
fied, when outmoded British
cars were facing new competi-
tion from Germany, France
and Italy, and when our in-
dustry was in the doldrums.
At that time the leading manu-
facturers embarked on vast
new programmes of moderni-
sation and development, in-
cluding some processes of
automation.
“There was a good deal
of temporary unemployment.
Men were put off by hundreds
pending a return to higher
production. Mr. Cousins led
a ‘redundancy’ stoppage in
Coventry. It was his first big
strike —and his first big mis-
take.
“More than half the men
refused to stop work—and
were wiser than their leaders.
Today they are justified by the
abounding prosperity of their
industry.
“The enormous expenditure
on improved plant has paid-
New York “Herald Tribune”
“MAYBE WE’D BETTER NOT.”
off. The British motor-car, for
its size and purpose, can stand
comparison with any other.”
“Manchester Guardian” also
notes that “there is no doubt
about the industry’s power to
drive ahead: its physical
equipment is thoroughly up-to-
date, and it is showing more
and more of the aggressive and
imaginative salesmanship on
which success in foreign mar-
kets depends. It is, providing
about 13 per cent, of the total
of British earnings in foreign
currency, including a most
valuable number of dollars.
“At home it maintains a high
volume of employment
directly and indirectly, prob-
ably one family in 12 gets its
livelihood from the motor in-
dustry or its ancillary trades
and services. Yet this pros-
perity is rather uneasily based.
The British small car is selling
briskly in the United States
because there is no American
vehicle to compete with it, but
all the signs indicate that
Detroit is not going to accept
this situation for much longer.”
Following-up on that point,
London “Financial Times”
comments that “it is clear that
no major American company
can market .a new small car
within the next 12 months, but
12 months may be about all
the breathing-space left.
“The U,S. manufacturers are
now taking foreign competition
seriously, and it seems that by
1960 General Motors at least
will have a small car for sale.
The success of British and
European manufacturers in
meeting the U.S. demand for
a small car may well prove
too great for them to be
allowed to enjoy it unmolested.
In other export markets there
is likely to be increasing com-
petition ; and though home
demand, thanks apparently to
easier credit and the Personal
Loans scheme, shows signs of
improvement, it is still too yn-
certain for comfort.”
Moon Talk
British and U.S. press com-
ments on Uncle Sam's “suc-
cessful failure” to be the first
man in the moon —or there-
abouts, anyway with the
multi-stage rocket, Pioneer I:
London “Financial Times”:
“Vital Statistics —Distance to
moon, 223,700 miles ; distance
travelled, 79,000 miles ; overall
length of rocket, 88ft.; overall
weight, 50 tons; weight of
final section, 82.71 b.; weight of
instruments carried, 39.61 b.;
maximum velocity (est.), 25,000
m.p.h.”
The same: “A difference in
the velocity of the rocket of as
little as 34 miles an hour could
make it either 16,000 miles
closer to, or further from, the
moon.”
The same: “The potential
importance of establishing a
satellite round the moon is not,
however, purely scientific. The
information provided by it
could enable at least a robot
lunar base, if not a manned
one, to be established. This
could be used not only for
observing what is happening on
the earth, but also for launch-
ing nuclear missiles.
“A ballistic missile carrying
an atomic warhead which was
launched from the moon
towards the earth would require
far less power than one
launched from the earth to
another, distant part of the
earth. Similarly, it would be
more-or-less invulnerable to
missiles launched from the
earth. A missile carrying a one-
megaton atomic warhead would
have a take-off weight from the
moon-of only 30001 b. An
equivalent one-megaton missile
launched from the' earth to
bomb a- moon launching-site
would have a 500,0001 b. take
off weight. Possession of the
moon as a base could therefore
be strategically important.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“it needs to be explained to the
layman that this rocket has
next to nothing to do with
defence, something to do with
propaganda and a great deal to
do with science. Unique and
invaluable information has
been transmitted over 79,000
miles back to earth.”
* * *
“New York Times” editorial
comment: “There is first the
astounding near-perfection with
which the enormously complex
multi-stage Pioneer. rocket
operated. This most compli-
cated mechanism, we should
remember-, was put together in
much less than a year, and its
brilliant performance is a most
heartening sign of how far
American rocketry has
advanced since that first


AUSTRALIA TO-DAY
• • •
LOWEST UNEMPLOYMENT
IN THE WORLD!
Here are the facts —
PERCENTAGE UNEMPLOYED
1.6%
AUSTRALIA
UNITED KINGDOM
HOLLAND
WEST GERMANY
BELGIUM
1 CANADA
U.S.A.
AUSTRALIA
UNLIMITED
When so much has been achieved, you cannot
afford to put the clock back. Rosy Labor
promises can cost you plenty in higher prices
and a threat to your job.
Don't gamble away your Security!
vote LIBERAL
on NOV. 22
and for the Senate— o McMullin 0 Anderson 0 McKellar
. . . and place a number in every square
Authorised by J. L. Carrick, Liberal Party of Australia.
UP.11.27
unhappy Vanguard failure only
last December.
“Nor should we lose sight of
the political significance of the
flight of Pioneer I. Ever since
the Soviet announcement of
their successful 1.C.8.M. test
in August, 1957, and of Sput-
nick I a year ago, Premier
Khrushchev has led a major
Communist propaganda drive
based on these and related feats.
This drive has sought to
terrorise the world with what
President Eisenhower has
properly called ‘ballistic black-
mail,’ while at the same time
seeking to weaken the prestige
of American science and tech-
nology throughout the world.
Pioneer I should do much to
counteract these efforts.”
* * *
Hanson W. Baldwin, in
“New York Times”: “Some of
the military extremists, like
Brig.-Gen. Homer A. Boushey,
Air Force director of advanced
technology, feel that the
United States must capture the
‘high ground’ of the moon and
develop a rocket-launching
base on it to ensure our ulti-
mate security against Soviet
Russia. The majority of
military opinion, while tending
to feel that General Boushey’s
objective is unnecessary (it is
far easier and more accurate to
launch rockets from the earth
against Russia than from the
moon) and indeed far-fetched,
nevertheless feel that numerous
military applications of space
—some of them as yet
undreamed of will be
developed as our knowledge
increases, and that imagination,
energy and a relatively Tree
rein are necessary.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail”:
“What a pity the rocket could
not have been labelled ‘Made
by the world.’ ”
Alcoholics
Sovietonymous
Alcoholism in the Soviet
having become “a plague of
terrible proportions” so
“Yorkshire Post” comments —
“a campaign against drink has
been gradually raised in the
Soviet press and is now reach-
ing heights of minatory stern-
ness.”
This, suggests Edinburgh
“Scotsman” with a note of sym-
pathy, indicates “Spartan times
for the Soviet Union”:
“A keen wind of asceticism
blows in the highest and holiest
places of a Russia which seems
well on the way to being holier
than us. Gone are the days
when Mr. Khrushchev dined
and wined his way half round
the world with his jolly travel-
ling companion.
“Gone are those days, and
we do not hear now the infec-
tious laugh, the witticism that
stood the world on its head, at
which any millionaire could
chuckle, united momentarily
with a kind of Russian Fal-
staff in the fellowship of
alcoholic mirth.
“Today another Mr. Khrush-
chev stalks the collectives, a
Prince Ha 1 who, having
banished fat Jack rather late in
life, seems well able to banish
all the world. The image of
Mr. Khrushchev, temperance
reformer, is one to freeze the
alcohol in anybody’s veins.
“P erhaps, on second
thoughts, the message of asceti-
cism could come no more
fittingly than from the lips of
one who, after such long
experience, may look with an
understanding eye on his
fellow - men. Significantly
enough, Mr. Khrushchev has
chosen to keep in being a typi-
cally humane Russian insti-
tution, the sobering - station.
There is no doubt that in some
things the Russians are far
ahead of us.
“Many enlightened Com-
munist ideas of this kind could
be adopted with profit here.
In return we might offer Mr.
Khrushchev our Scottish licen-
sing laws as an aid to him in
solving the problem of drunken-
ness. He seems already to be
groping vaguely towards our
Scottish concept of the bona-
fide traveller when he says:
‘lf there are people who like
their five tots, they will have to
go to five restaurants.’ ”
Various Voices
Prime Minister Macmillan:
“The reduction of [Britain’s]
global power does not mean,
or should not mean, a chance
to sink back with a sigh of
relief into the limited routine
of a small island or a third-rate
Power. It is true that, even at
the zenith of our Empire, large
sections of the British people
pursued their own affairs with-
out taking the slightest interest
in what was happening over-
seas. We could perhaps afford
to take such an attitude then,
but we certainly cannot afford
it now. We must not relapse
into slippered insularity.”
Viscount Kilmuir, Lord
Chancellor: “Inflation is the
biggest enemy of full employ-
ment. Leave inflation un-
curbed and sterling becomes
weak, prices go up and our
[British] exports are driven out
of the markets. Sooner or later
comes the reckoning in terms
of mass unemployment. But
today sterling is strong, prices
have been stable. From such
a position of strength we are
ready to launch out once again
with a bold policy of renewed
expansion. We have to steer
between the twin enemies of
full employment—between the
sour Scylla of slump and the
bubbling Charybdis of
inflation.”


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Atistralia
/Am
►TjA-CKbON & 7g
\lLosuiuv\n /,
PTYITD /jV"'
"AS* J**®? EP'
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
150 kilometres from Frou-des-
loups. The military cemetery
is an extension of the village
communal burial-ground. Of
the 55 Army graves, 40 are
those of Australians.
Bert’s last wish was impos-
sible, and I knew it. War
Graves Commission regulations
strictly forbid burial of ex-
soldiers in cemeteries reserved
for those killed on service ; and
this is right enough. In any
case, few Army cemeteries are
large enough to take further
graves. Odette looked so dis-
mal when I told her this that I
said I’d telephone the W.G.C.
and ask about it, but the answer
was the one I expected.
When I returned from the
next village Frou-des-loups
has no telephone—the neigh-
bors were call i n g with
sympathy. The peasant’s
sympathy is a very real thing,
but he doesn’t bring tears and
mourning. Instead, he brings
gifts of food and fuel and per-
haps a promise of help or
money —the things a widow
will need. ■ Everybody knew
Bert’s history, and they were
flattered, I think, that he had
become a naturalised French-
man —a gesture to his wife, I
suspect. Nobody went in to see
Bert, and neither did I; it just
isn’t done.
Odette was despondent. A
man had a right to his last
wish and she wanted it fulfilled.
“You will do something,
please?” she said, her brown
eyes fixed on me pleadingly.
I said I’d try. I drove back
to Allonville —another Frou-
des-loups. Nearly all the
Diggers buried there were killed
in December - January, 1916,
post- Pozieres, or in May, 1918.
I am told that the earlier burials
are men killed when a shell hit
a barn in which they were
A French farmyard-courtyard near Armentieres.
sleeping. The 1918 men died in
the defence of Amiens.
I talked with the school-
teacher, who found the priest,
who brought along the man
who cared for the communal
cemetery, and within half-an-
hour I was in conference with
the entire adult male popula-
tion of Allonville.
And they made me an offer.
M. Bert Smithson could be
buried in the ordinary section
of the cemetery and very close
to the military extension which
adjoined it. His body would
lie closer to a row of Aus-
tralians than the two rows of
Army graves were to one
another. The Giraud family
was prepared to relinquish its
rights to the plot in question.
Would this be satisfactory?
I said that Mme. Smithson
would naturally want to pay
for the plot, but massed hands
scorned the idea. I think that
Bert’s becoming naturalised
really brought about the offer,
which was a far more generous
one than might appear.
I returned to Frou-des-loups
with the news, and now Odette
broke-down and cried, though
more with relief and gratitude
than anything else. Perhaps
after this she would go to live
in Allonville, she said —but of
course she won’t; her roots are
far too deep in Frou-des-loups.
The neighbors called again to
express their pleasure, but I
didn’t wait up to see them out.
Tired, I went to sleep with the
church-bell tolling evening
meditation. Snow was falling
again.
We set off for Allonville
next morning. I took the
eight people who could get
away, and a makeshift hearse
brought Bert’s body. The
burial took place in mid-after-
noon. Odette didn’t cry, but I
did. Not because of Bert
Smithson ; after all, I hardly
knew him. But because every
individual in that village came
to the cemetery. It was a ges-
ture that meant much. We
stood ankle-deep in snow
during the brief service, and
when it was over all the
villagers spoke to Odette and
to me, for somehow they were
under the impression that I
was a close relative ; by now I
was even beginning to feel like
one.
Then the children of the
village put a few flowers on
each of the 55 soldiers’ graves.
Not bouquets, wreaths or
posies: just a few loose flowers
gathered from only the children
knew where in that great
expanse of snow. The whole
populace moved about among
the graves, so neat, so uniform,
so upright and soldierly. Per-
haps before they left they had
some little idea why Bert
Smithson wanted to be buried
among them.
Rather to my surprise I
found Odette holding my arm,
and this made me feel even
more like a relative. I felt
prouder than I had any right
to be, for as Odette had told
me candidly, Bert would have
been content with any Aus-
tralian.
Eventually, we all left the
cemetery—Odette and I leaving
last of all, and our footprints
in the snow were not all that
we left in the oddly peaceful
place. I couldn't help think-
ing that at long last Bert had
caught up with his mates ; they
had not grown old, and he, who
had been left, had grown old,
but now it didn’t matter any-
way.
It was quite dark when we
returned to Frou-des-loups,
and soon the kitchen was full
of people asking about the
service. Was it a good
cemetery? Could you hear
what the priest said? And now,
suddenly, seeing this new
widow among her own people
I felt superfluous ... an
intruder. I knew I was feeling
more emotion than they did,
and I didn’t want to show it,
because they have the idea that
Australians are unemotional
people.
I offered to help Odette in
any way, but she said she could
manage, and of course she will.
There are few loose ends,
because Bert had travelled light
these many years. His kin are
all long since dead, and any
papers he had he destroyed
before getting out of the
village at the beginning of the
German occupation.
When I left Frou-des-loups
next morning it was still snow-
covered, just as Allonville
would be, like something from
a postcard, an outpost fighting
change. In a few hours the
sharp winter’s day would end
and dusk would fall, the
countryside would be bleak
and nothing would move on
the low hills and in the shallow
valleys.
But somehow it wasn’t
depressing, and though my
fingers and feet were numb
with cold as I drove away,
inwardly I felt as warm as the
hearts of the French peasants
I had been privileged to meet.


Ruffi ifi ihe
ftiiure
Trade is being influenced by the fast flowing
changes in the world. The market routes of nations
are being redrawn.
This is happening at a time when—notwith-
standing the volume of merchant shipping tied up
in great ports—trade is increasing at a faster rate
than world production. The human population,
which commerce has to serve, is rising by a million
every ten days.
Everything Australia aspires to in expansion
is wrapped up in this question of markets. The
goods we need must be paid for with ever-
increasing exports.
On the pattern of the. past, this could be
effected by reaching extended agreements with our
traditional customer. Britain. Other markets, while
important, were incidental.
But time—which has also brought Australia up
in secondary as well as primary production—is
changing that pattern.
Britain has eased her control over dollar
imports to the United Kingdom, and proposes a
further freeing in 1959.
This is a step towards removing the sterling-
dollar barrier, and is a contribution to the ideal of
a more fluid trade in the world.
But it also means that Australia will face
increasing competition for her exports on
British markets.
It crystallises a question that has been forming
for us for years: The building of Australia into
trader - strength by securing wider markets,
particularly in South-East Asia and the South
Pacific, alongside which Creation has placed us.
With long-established trading nations already
in the field, it will call for all we have in initiative;
in the ability to supply in quality and quantity and
diversity of products; in a governing of costs that
can only stem from a root efficiency in our
own system.
It can be done. Other countries are doing it.
And out of this challenge I believe we will emerge
better Australians, more conscious of the service
we owe to other people, and buoyed on to greater
prosperity in a freer world trade.
left of himself together, and
staggered into the darkness,
VA7illie couldn’t swim very
* * well, but holding tight
to the ball and kicking hard
he managed to get across.
Pausing only to empty his ear-
drums and hipflask, he struck-
out towards their headquarters.
Bawham! From the dark-
ness behind came the ear-
shattering blast of a shotgun.
Willie’s jaw gaped so far
it almost tripped him. “The
dirty dogs! Don’t'have to use
guns, it’s only a game.” He
ran faster- than ever, anticipat-
ing the second barrel.
“That’s the signal. They’re
through,” roared the Waparoa
boys.
Salvation reared up:
“Charge!”
Over the bridge we went.
They fanned out ; so 'did we,
but there wasn’t a sign of
Willie.
Willie ran on and on, until
his lungs were screaming for
wind. He was almost to the
house . when three figures
loomed out of the shrubbery
ahead. He could hear the
baying of the pack behind.
He veered to one side, but
there were others coming that
way. On the other side was
a boxthorn hedge. He was
trapped ; they were almost on
him ; but, quick as thought, he
poised and punted the ball,
clean over the boxthorn.
As luck would have it, their
star-winger, Johnson, was
there, ready to work the blind
as usual. He scooped up the
windfall and ran. There
seemed no hope of stopping
him. He was a good half-
mile clear of the pack and
there was nobody on the
bridge.
But a long black car slid to
a halt beside him.
“What’s the hurry?”
It was the police. Johnson,
lost for words, had to stop.
“Come on. What’s the idea
of running half-dressed round
the countryside?”
Johnson tried to explain,
but all the constables caught
was the smell of beer. So
Johnson, rudely intercepted on
the way for a try, was ordered
off the field.
“Praise the powers!” whis-
pered Salvation in the bushes.
“He had the decency to leave
the ball.”
The black car ground away
and whirred quickly through
to high gear, leaving the ball
in the white dust.
Salvation pounced on it, but
it was kicked from his hands,
over the bank and into the
river.
“Tally-ho!” yelled Salvation,
and three men shot past him
and dived like a stick of bombs
around the ball. They were
the' opposition, so Salvation
called “Fore!” and leapt on
top of them. Down they all
went.
didn't come up —Salva-
tion. He was swimming
underwater with the ball.
Lacking speed, he had to
use finesse. He tucked the
ball in his already bulging
trousers and clambered up the
bank. As the rest came charg-
ing up, he yelled, “It's in the
river. Dive, dive!” And over
they went like a string of para-
troopers.
“Help, help, I can’t swim*”
called one. “Now’s the time
to learn, brother,” murmured
Salvation to himself as he
quietly ambled up the road.
It was clear going until he
came in sight of their place.
He heard the call, “There he
goes,” and somebody yelled,
“Look out for the bull!” His
feet fairly pounded the earth
away from beneath him, but
he wasn’t built for speed.
They quickly overhauled him.
“It’s a trick,” one of them
gasped. “He hasn’t got the
ball at all.”
“It’s a trick, all right,” said
McCarthy. “What’s he stand-
ing so bandylegged for?
Search him, boys.”
Salvation fought valiantly,
but, overcome by the sheer
weight of numbers, surren-
dered his trousers, but not the
ball. This he clutched to his
hairy bosom and began to
rabbit his way through the
ruck. His elephantine red
underpants held the opposition
fascinated. He made a good
ten yards before they
recovered.
Spectators appeared at the
windows and in the doorway
of the house. The women had
a grandstand view.
Salvation caught sight of
them. They gave him new life.
“Aaah,” he roared. “Prizes!”
He reared up, shook the
opposition off, and staggered
over the doorstep into the
shrieking household.
And the gdme concluded in
the usual manner.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Horses
Probably the biggest revolu-
tion in our way of life during
this century has been caused,
not by the coming of the aero-
plane, the atom-bomb or the
juke-box, but by the super-
seding of the horse. It must be
difficult for the younger genera-
tion to realise the part horses
played in everyday life right up
to the end of World War I. At
that time, despite the large
numbers sent overseas for war
purposes, there, were 2y-million
horses in Australia, llie latest
official count is about 750,000,
and over the past few years the
decline has been of the order
of 45,000 a year.
Though still supreme in out-
back cattle-country, on the race-
track and in the show-ring,
numbers are rapidly reaching
the point where it is uneco-
nomic to breed them at all.
How can one make a living
“So I say to myself, Pierre, I say, there is one place in the world where they
won’t get their man..."
breeding racehorses, for ex-
ample, if there is no market
for the rejects (always a large
proportion) except at a few
pounds a head to feed grey-
hounds? The position with
the heavy breeds is even worse
—Gatton College has at last
bowed to the inevitable and dis-
banded its Clydesdale stud.
The trades that depended on
the horse —farriers, saddlers,
wheelwrights and the rest —will
die out with the present genera-
tion. Country children now go
to school by bus or bike,
instead of by pony.
If horses are disappearing
from civil life, World War II
proved that they are finished
in war. Even transport teams
in non-combat areas such as
Queensland just weren’t worth
their keep.
The full implications of the
change have not, as far as I
know, been clearly set out.
There are two inescapable con-
clusions.
First, the disappearance of
two-million horses will free
about 10-million acres of good
land to grow human food or
feed cattle and sheep.
Second, 50 years ago we were
self-supporting in vehicles and
harness of all kinds and had an
export-trade in certain types of
horses. Now we must import,
if not- all our motor-vehicles,
at least certain raw materials,
such as rubber, and, for the
moment anyway, fuel and oil
on which they run. This could
mean disaster in war. Have
we any plans to meet the posi-
tion? — Herosene. (Q.).
Professors and Creative
Writers
“M.G.S.” (B. 1/10/’5B) pro-
vides a good example of the
strange intellectual anarchy
usually confined to business-
men: “I never had much educa-
tion, and look at me now.”
it has never been pretended
that universities put the creative
instinct into a man. What they
can do, and do very well; is to
take a man with the instinct
an d show him how to make
infinitely better use of it. One
would not claim greatness for
the long chain of poets-laureate,
but they have all been poets of
reasonable standard. Not more
than three of them, and they
are veriest nonentities, have
lacked a university education,
Of the 59 poets published in
the recent Penguin Book of
Australian Verse, three-
quarters are university edu-
cated, and at least half of the
balance have had some parallel
form of higher instruction
(teachers’ training-college, etc.).
With the single exception of
John Shaw Neilson, every
well-known name among them
is that of a university-educated
writer.
There is only one answer to
the question whether Henry
Lawson would have written
better short-stories had he sat
at the feet of some scholarly
professor. That is, “Almost
certainly —he could hardly
have failed to do so.” The
university would have nurtured
and furnished his real genius to
the highest pitch, as it has
done for hundreds of others.—
K. L. Wells (Vic.).
Orwell ancT Roy Campbell
Not having read Roy Camp-
bell’s Portugal I 'don’t know
whether he describes just how
he wounded George Orwell
with an arrow during the
Spanish Civil War (B.
5/11/ ’5B), but'it seems that the
matter would be open to
debate.
It’s difficult to see how
Campbell could be certain of it
unless he fired at very short
range, with plenty of time and
a full view of his man —not
the sort of shot you would
expect to get very often in
trench warfare.
Moreover, in Homage to
Catalonia, Orwell’s book about
the Spanish war, there is no
record of his being wounded
by an arrow, or anything that
seems as if it could have been
an arrow. He does, however,
describe clearly and in detail
how he was wounded by a
bullet, which passed clean
through his neck, miracu-
lously missing all the vital
organs. If this was the wound
Campbell inflicted, he must-
have done it with a remarkably
bullet-like arrow, to deceive
both Orwell and the doctors.
And if arrows had been
used on Orwell’s part of the
front he would surely have
known about it and thought it
worth putting into his book.
Perhaps, then, Campbell
wounded him at some other
time, and Orwell concealed it.
The only possible reasons for
this would be (a) that Orwell
was for some reason ashamed
of having been wounded in such
a way; or ( b ) that he got the
wound in shameful circum-
stances —e.g., in running away
from the enemy—which he
could not bring himself to
admit.
Both are unlikely. The man
who wasn’t ashamed to admit
that he got his neck-wound in
a rather silly and unheroic way
would hardly have the kind of
false shame that (a) implies;
and as for ( b ), one can only
quote Orwell’s reputation for
bravery.
Some reviews of Portugal
quoted Campbell as saying that
he learned about the wound in
later conversations with Orwell
If this was true, one wonders
whether Orwell left a published
note about it, and why it
wasn’t added as a footnote to
the later edition of Homage.
To me it’s significant that
Campbell waited until after
Orwell’s death to make the
assertion.
Campbell was often tenden-
tious, and even a bit hysterical,
in anything he wrote about the
Spanish war-, often descending
into mere abuse. He was also,
in his autobiographical
writings, a bit of a rrtuscle-
flexer “Chums” hero. Such
men often exaggerate their part
in any action, and that’s what
I think Campbell was doing
in Portugal. — Des (N.S.W.).
Sport or Roads
In Westralia they’re called
road-boards and they levy rates
which are sometimes referred
to as road-rates. Any ratepayer
who thinks that these rates
are supposed to provide roads
for the districts couldn’t be
much further off the beam.
Last financial year road-boards
throughout Westralia derived
£2,457,764 from rates, and out
of that amount they spent
£47,623 on roads. That’s
throughout the whole of W.A.
I didn’t say that’s all that was
spent on roads in this State ; I
said that’s all the rate-money
that was used for that purpose.
Actually £1,987,653 went into
roads, but £987,640 of that
came out of traffic-licence fees,
and another £952,380 came
from Government grants from


m
m
{</&
fan/eliouJ
14 carat C/<?
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
fitted with a genuine
14 carat gold nib.
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
fully guaranteed.
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
excellent value.
Ask your Retailer
he knows.
The No. 85L
42 x 6
The Conway Stewart
No. 15 at 29/6
No. 12 at 35/-
No. 76 at 60/-
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD,. LONDON
“You’d better try it, now you've told me how to mix it."
the petrol-tax. Only one-half of
one per cent, of the amount
collected as rates was spent by
road-boards on roads.
Where did the other
£2,410,131 goto? Administra-
tion took a lot —some may say
too much, but we’ll skip that.
There are more tangible things
to get our teeth into. Over a
quarter-million was spent on
. halls, and less than half of that
amount was recouped in hall-
hire. Recreation took £419,992,
and revenue from recreation-
grounds was only £70,133.
That means the combined road-
boards in W.A. spent roughly
eight times as much rate-money
on sport, and three times as
much on halls and hall-main-
tenance, as they did on roads.
That makes road-rales a form
of tax for recreational and cul-
tural purposes, leaving the
roads to be built and main-
tained out of petrol-tax —or a
part of petrol-tax—and traffic-
licence fees.
There should be a more
equitable way of doing this.
Sport is necessary and desirable
in a community, but the parti-
cipants should be prepared to
pay more towards it. That
doesn’t apply so much to
juvenile sport, which the com-
munity should encourage ; but
it does to league football, which
is almost entirely spectator-
sport, and it applies particularly
to bowls and croquet, which are
adult sports. Those who prac-
tice them should be expected
to pay for them. Yet there
are road - boards spending
thousands a year on croquet-
greens, bowling-greens and
club-houses.
Meanwhile the roads are in a
shocking condition. Outside
of a few principal thorough-
fares built and maintained by
the Main Roads Department,
there’s hardly a decent road in
Perth metropolitan area. And
that fact is being used to justify
increased rates, which are be-
ing diverted more and more
into other channels.
Either sporting bodies. —-
particularly adult sporting
bodies—-should contribute more
towards their sports, or a
special “sporting” rate should
be struck and included in the
rate - notices each year. It
mightn’t be a bad idea to have
the amount to be spent on
roads also included in the
notices ; then the ratepayers
could see at a glance where
their money was going, and
they could kick if they felt
inclined. — Spin (W.A.).
The Dignity of Work
Mentioned in Personal Items
(B. 15/10/’5B) as founder of
the Young Christian Workers’
Movement, Monsignor Joseph
Cardijn has, in his organisa-
tion, the ideal, positive and
living answer to Communism.
Characteristic of Cardijn
and the Y.C.W. is the import-
ance attached to the dignity of
the worker and to the dignity
of work. The former demands
that men be treated in a
manner fitting with their
human dignity— not as a com-
modity such as flour, ore or
coal. The second results in an
awareness in the worker of his
responsibility to cherish his
work.
The contented worker,
engrossed in his vocation, is a
poor target for Communist
class-war bilge.— Jocist (Q.).
Decimal Currency
“H. 8.8.” wonders (B.
15/10/’5B) how the “man-in-
the-street” would adapt him-
self to the oft-proposed decimal
currency. Well, the countries
of the Middle East have it —
a pound divided into a hundred
piastres, each of 10 mils. The
values differ. During the war
the Palestine £ was equal to
the £ sterling (255. Aust.), the
Egyptian £ about 255. Bd. Aust.,
and the Syrian and Lebanese £
(livre) 2s. lOd. Aust.
Names varied, too. The
Gyppos called their mil a mil-
lieme, the Israelis did not
officially recognise the name
piastre for their 10-mil coin,
and in Syria the five-piastre
piece was called a franc (a bit
over l|d.). But the A.1.F.,
representing a fair intellec-
tual cross-section of the popu-
lation, took these in their stride,
an< f soon learned a fair scale
°f prices in each of them. I
have no doubt we could do the
same here.
Incidentally, the Palestine
coinage might be a good model
for us to follow. The 10-
shilling note would be 20
piastres, while the trey, zack
and bob would become respec-
tively five mils, one piastre and
two piastres. We would have to
replace the present £1 note with
a new one of 100 piastres (255.)
and the two-shilling-piece with
a five-piastre (2s. 6d.), but both
these could be used till
replaced, at 80 and four
piastres respectively.
The penny (1.67 mils) and
halfpenny (.83 mils) would
have to be replaced immediately
by one- and two-mil coins, but
the rest of our familiar
currency would continue to
circulate during the change-
over with no alteration in
value. Nobody should find
himself in difficulties at any
stage.—X.Q.X. (Q.).


WOOL FUTURES AND “CARTELS”
By P. R. ROGERS
In B. 22/10/’5B H. Gerhard
Ammermann says that 92
p.c. of the Australian clip
is consumed overseas, and
this represents about 27 p.c.
of world production, but he
fails to mention that it repre-
sents much more than 27 p.c. of
the Merino wool.
He also uses the same argu-
ment as Mr. Weatherly: that
the world buying-public and
manufacturers are not con-
cerned at all with our produc-
tion-costs or our standard of
living, and he asserts that we
can’t compel people in other
countries to use our wool or to
make them pay more for it. He
states this in the face of B64’s
tops being quoted recently,
spot, Bradford market, 90d.,
and futures, October, 87d.,
December, 89d., up to Decem-
ber, 1959, 95|d. —all sterling—-
while Terylene remains at 200 d.
a pound.
Mr. Ammermann says that
in Australia some 150 wool-
buying firms are operating. He
evidently does not know that
about seven large brokers in
London and their 24 buyers in
Australia are responsible for
buying a very large proportion
of our clip. He is apparently
also unaware that since sales
opened in August, 1957, at
approximately £lOO a bale,
wool futures were sold con-
sistently at under spot auction-
prices after each series of
auctions, and wool was also
sold forward at under spot
auction-prices.
By whom, if not by a cartel?
The same cartel that kept
wool at a lb. for 10 years
before the last war. After
each series of auctions the
cartel cabled its buyers lower
limits, which growers accepted
under the free-auction system,
no reserve price, right up to
five days before sales began on
August 26, 1958, and the cartel
has been selling futures lower
after every series since August
26, 1958.
Wool Publicity
If Mr. Ammermann’s state-
ments were correct, all the
more reason to advertise and
promote wool in Australia and
over the world;
I have twice in the press
suggested raising the levy from
4s. to 20s. a bale (and another
20s. a bale by the Federal Gov-
ernment to help the Australian
economy). I have yet to see
one constructive proposal by
any of my critics.
I would like to see a levy
of £5 a bale on wool, which
would give us abouf £22
million a year to spend on
promotion and world-wide
advertising, including Australia.
This would match the £22
million which Mr. McMahon
said was spent by makers of
synthetics. Before this money
was spent the men who were
going to use it could, with
advantage, read the article in
the “Pastoral Review,” page
1016, September 18, 1958, by
R. A. Barton, Massey Agri-
cultural College, Palmerston
North, New Zealand. This will
save money spent on advertis-
ing being misdirected.
Forward Dealings
It is not only the operations
of the cartel on the futures
market, but their operations in
selling wool forward under
spot auction-prices, that have
caused the disastrous fall in
the wool market. A reserve
price at auction is the only
possible way to prevent the
cartel from operating indefi-
nitely.
I certainly do not agree that
the present system open
market, no reserve price—
ensures the grower the best
possible return for his clip.
With the 2{ p.c. advance at
Brisbane sales which closed
on October 23 the average price
was 50d. a lb. (mostly Merino
wool), and W. A. Gunn said
recently that cost of produc-
tion for flocks 2000 and under
was 60d. a lb. (and flocks of
2000 sheep and under consti-
tute half our clip).
The Facts
G. D’A. Chislett (secretary,
Australian Woolgrowers’ Coun-
cil) says it is high time I pro-
duced some facts to support my
allegations.
I consider that I have
already produced enough facts
to satisfy any man of ordinary
intelligence that a cartel has
been operating since August,
1957, right up to the present
time in selling futures and
selling wool for forward
delivery below spot auction-
prices, then cabling lower
limits to its buyers, which
growers accept.
He says I attribute a state-
ment to Mr. Weatherly, “ ‘free
auction system with no reserve
price,’ which Mr. Weatherly
did not make.” As reported
on the front page of “Stock
and Land” on May 21, 1958,
Mr. Weatherly said that,
“because of a number of pro-
posals aimed at artificially
raising the price of wool, his
council considered it desirable
to reaffirm its traditional sup-
port of the free - auction
system,” and he then went on
to say that to attempt to sup-
port a floor-price higher than
free-market price could only
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 512
Across
I—Asian split atoms in a poem. (12)
9—Damaged irons to strain on a mechanical part. (7)
10 — Strait ran back to exhibitions of quarrelsomeness. . (7)
11 — Joint parent turns to and entertains fauna. (14)
13 — One we dread. (3)
14 — Why approval is given to the editor harnessed with
another. (5)
16 —King George always after Miss Garson. (5)
17 —Bacon production to try sex-
appeal, by the sound of it. (5)
19— Potentate lets them replace King
George in 16-across. (5)
20— State horseshoe town in New
Guinea. (3)
21 and 25 —These make the innocent
suffer. (11, 2,7)
25 — He acts in a warm, dark beard —
what’s fair and what’s frozen. (7)
26 — Ape Yours Truly announcing that
he is the thing eaten. (7)
27 — A country like ours keeps hot
women calm when agitated. (.12)
Down
1 — Those in the single state threat-
ened by this Bryant or May. (10)
2 Razor-sharpener and he provide
chorus work in the classic
drama. (7)
3 Love of women. (9)
4 Color nothing with approval that
is a Peter Scriven puppet. (9)
5 Asian land upset by Israelite
sustenance. (5)
6 They can’t be found in the Yarra
units without louse’s eggs, accord-
ing to one of the world's greatest
pianists. (5)
7 Bankrupt sculpture. (4)
8 — Stick firm in this place. (6)
12—Excrescence in wound meat
which is overfond of itself. (5, 5)
15 —A 99-year-old painter is ordered
to kick the bucket, according to
the food-controller. (9)
16—Brownie's superior ruled Gigi
badly. (4, 5)
18 —Franco - Swiss issues are-
obscure. (6)
20 —Behave as if to get three sheets
to the wind—was at least one
sheet to the * wind already,
though. (7)
22 A capital tune in company. (5)
23 — He is surrounded by some spirit
choler. (5)
24 — A vessel partly open. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 511.


.
*
jzytet..
m
rm****)
'^M:SB r Z
,
5» :
rW
3
xW-wW-Xr
J'e
Po
- :
A.:vx::rs^:-..:-: v
*^:3sSs*3BB
'•Hill
0 /^.
/r.
**^**B?
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES, DISTILLED & BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd., Distillers, Perth, Scotland. Est. 1825
lead to a cessation of buying,
accumulation of unsold wool
and an increase in the use of
man-made fibres, etc.
I dealt fully with this in my
article in The Bulletin of
June 18, 1958.
I am in very good company
in stating that half of the Aus-
tralian clip is sold by forward
Selling. The “Pastoral Re-
view,” one of the most con-
servative wool journals in Aus-
tralia, states in its May 16
leading-article: “Although it
is difficult to estimate, it is
generally agreed that forward
selling now covers at least half
the clip, and the practice is
growing. If not directly related
to cartel- or group-buying,
many will argue that it is not
an advantageous method of
selling, and one which could
increase lot-splitting and trans-
fer practices. It tends to
exaggerate price-fluctuations by
reducing its purchase period
and is making inroads on the
business of genuine commis-
sion-buyers working on a limit.
It would be interesting to know
if forward selling was touched
on by the Department of
Primary Industry during its
inquiry and, if so, -what con-
clusions were reached.”
Again, the “Pastoral Re-
view,” August 19, 1958, in a
leading-article, concluded by
saying: “Whilst the auction
system has been consistently
supported in these columns,
and we still believe it to be
the best method of disposal,
some present practices appear
to be undermining its salient
features. It may not be an
exaggeration to suggest that
more than half of the 1958-59
clips will be sold on a firm-offer
basis, but most certainly any
profits resulting from the deal
will not revert to the grower.
Quite frankly it prompts the
question: If manufacturers
are seeking relief from price-
fluctuations by purchasing in
this manner, what steps can or
should be taken to protect the
producer? Any section of the
trade which facilitates the prac-
tice should take stock of the
position now.”
The secretary of A.W.C.
disputes my statement that the
Bureau of Agricultural Eco-
nomics stated that the price of
wool is under cost of produc-
tion. I have seen this statement
in the press on several occa-
sions. Anyway, does he dispute
the fact that the October 23
price of wool, 50d. lb. average,
is under cost of production?
Juggling with figures will not
help the woolgrower in his
present plight. I am not con-
cerned with the average price
of wool for the season 1957-58
(it was £lOO a bale in August,
1957—quite a good price), but
I 'am very concerned at the
price the cartel forced it down
to in May, 1958, when my wool
was sold in Geelong at an
average price of 48d. a pound.
Wool-usage
Mr. Chislett, in quoting
figures, overlooks the fact that
the Commonwealth Economic
Committee reported that Aus-
tralian wool-usage during the
second quarter of 1958 rose
by 3 p.c., consumption by
Japan rose 7 p.c., in the
Netherlands 6 p.c., and the
most encouraging trend in the
same second quarter was an
increase of 12 p.c. in apparel-
wool consumption in the
U.S.A.
Mr. McMahon’s statement,
as reported, would be amusing
if not so tragic. Why waste
the time (for four months) of
the best officers in the depart-
ment making an investigation
as to whether a cartel was
operating at the Australian
wool sales? Where did they
expect to get the evidence:
from the cartel ?
The cartel does not operate
in Australia ; it operates over-
seas, as I have outlined. All
Mr. McMahon had to do was
get a list of wool prices at each
series of auctions, August,
1957, to June, 1958, and then
a list of futures prices just
after each series of auctions
(which were consistently lower
throughout the 12 months) and
ask himself the question: Who
sold these futures, and for what
purpose?
Surely this should be suffi-
cient evidence to satisfy him. Is
Mr. McMahon so naive as to
think that cartels and gentle-
men’s agreements give evidence
against themselves?
Constructive Proposals
I would like to see some
constructive proposals from the
A.W.C. to help the woolgrower
in his present plight.
If wool should be better
advertised and promoted, as
Mr. Weatherly claims, then
where is the money coming
from? Does he agree that the
levy should be increased to £5
a bale to match the money
being spent by synthetic-
makers? Idle words and
destructive criticism are utterly
useless.
Prices for woollen goods are
exorbitant. If wool were given
free to manufacturers it would
make little difference in selling-
price to the consumer. Wool
was £lOO a bale last August;
today it is £6O a bale; but
prices for finished woollen
goods have not been reduced
a penny. Not since 1951, when
wool was £lBO a bale.
The “No” Vote
Woolgrowers were badly
advised by their executives to
vote “No” against the post-
J.O. plan; if we had been
actively co-operating with
South Africa and New Zea-
land since 1951 the woolgrower
would be hundreds-of-millions
better-off (which the cartel has
taken out of Australian wool-
growers).
Many woolgrowers all over
Australia now realise that they
were misled, and are now
demanding a reserve-price plan
at auctions. They realise now
that it is organised buying by
some of the ablest and
shrewdest men in the world
against absolutely unorganised
selling by amateurs with no
business experience whatever.
Could any sane man imagine
for a moment B.H.P. selling its
three-million tons of steel a
year at free auction, no reserve
price? But, then, B.H.P. is run
by highly efficient businessmen.
Its selling-prices are related
to cost of production. That is
why it can pay moderate divi-
dends and still sell the cheapest
and best steel in the world to-
day. If the wool industry had
been run for the last 25 years
by men of the calibre of
Essington Lewis and Krut-
schnitt (former chairman of
Mount Isa Mines) instead of
being run by amateurs, what a
different picture our great wool
industry would present today!
The sooner the woolgrowers
realise this fact the better for
themselves and the Australian
economy. It is good to see that
some graziers’ associations in
Queensland have already
wakened-up to this fact and
are demanding action, as well
as woolgrowers in Victoria,
South Australia and Western
Australia.


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
FARM-MANAGEMENT EFFICIENCY
By R. A. PRICE
"C fforts to increase the
volume of farm-produc-
tion are giving way to a cam-
paign to improve economic
efficiency in farm-management.
This is evident both in Govern-
ment services and among
farmers themselves.
During and since World War
II the emphasis had been on
quantity, because the demand
was great, both here and over-
seas. Now that there is compe-
tition overseas and overproduc-
tion at home it seems wise to
examine the economics of all
our farming systems and prac-
tices, so that costs can be
reduced to a minimum in order
to meet competition—to adjust
for lower prices and still live
as farmers.
In a course of instruction in
the economics of farm-manage-
ment arranged by the N.S.W.
Agricultural Bureau at Glen-
quarry, on the Southern Table-
lands, the lectures given by
George McFarlane, of the
Division of Marketing and
When asked for his
advice on the Castra-
tion of Bull Calves a
veterinary expert in-
cluded the following
in his lengthy reply:
“Bull Calves are
castrated at any age
from six weeks to
six months, but the
earlier the operation
is done, within rea-
son, the better.
Avoid extremes of
weather for the
operation pick a
mild day. The Elas-
trator method is quite
suitable for younger
calves and is quite
efficient.”
Economics, were thoroughly
laced with discussions which
reached down to the very core
of many farming problems.
Farm - economics can be
applied in planning a new farm
to make the best use of all
resources available ; in adjust-
ing an established system which
“ S’pose you're right —COULD be ladybirds .”
is found to be unsatisfactory
through faults in management ;
in changing plans to suit
changes in circumstances; or
in making the everyday
decisions about whether to sow
this or that, to buy stock or
sell it, to employ more or less
labor, or to use it differently.
Resources come roughly
under the headings of Land,
Capital and Labor. Any of
these can be limiting factors ;
we must plan to bring them
into balance. For instance, if
the land available could run 200
dairy-cows but the labor is not
enough properly to look after
them, it would pay better to
have fewer dairy-cows and to
run also some beef-cattle, which
can use the same yards and
require less labor. The . pro-
portion of each can be calcu-
lated mathematically.
Capital includes the money
invested in buildings, fences,
machinery and stock and the
working - expenses of seed,
fertiliser, feed and living-
expenses until returns come in.
If capital is short, as much as
possible must be put into short-
term projects that will return
money as soon as possible and
relieve the strain on working-
capital.
There is an interesting divi-
sion betwen fixed costs and
variable costs. Fixed costs are
those which are incurred and
continue whether anything is
produced or not. They include
the capital-costs of the land
(interest or rent); depreciation
of fences, buildings and equip-
ment; certain maintenance
costs ; and the cost of perma-
nent labor (such as the farmer
himself, and perhaps his
family).
Feed, seed, fertiliser, fuel
and oil, electricity, repairs and
maintenance of machines, and
labor hired for productive work
are variable costs (also called
marginal costs).
For an increase in produc-
tion to be profitable it is only
necessary that its variable (or
marginal) costs be less than
its market value. For a certain
volume of production the
average costs may be, say, 2s.
per unit, which includes its
share of the fixed costs. The
actual extra cost of increasing
production by one unit might
only amount to Is., and if its
market value is 2s. 3d., then,
obviously, it is profitable to
produce more of it.
The cost of further increases
in production may, however,
become higher and higher, until
it equals or is greater than the
market value. It is time to
leave off before this point is
reached.
As the fixed costs remain
about the same no matter what
the increase in production, it
follows that the greatest profit
will come from pushing produc-
tion up to the full economic
capacity of the farm, so as to
spread the fixed costs over as
many units of production as
possible.
With the rise in production,
however, there are other factors
to be considered. The applica-
tion of variable resources to
fixed resources —such as the
use of more and more seed,
fertiliser, labor and machinery
to the same area of land, or
the giving of more and more
feed to the same herd of
cattle —will bring into opera-
tion the “law of diminishing
returns” —i.e., where returns
resulting from each increase in
the application of feed, fertili-
ser, etc., become less and less
until there is no further
response from such application,
and the yield may even begin to
decline.
For the greatest profit it is
necessary to watch
costs and returns
closely, and to carry
increase in invest-
ment no further than
the point where it is
most economic, hav-
ing regard to pos-
sible other uses for
the capital.
This new study,
fascinating and pro-
fitable in itself,
has associated ad-
vantages which are
no less important. It
points to, and de-
mands, the keeping
of accurate records
of everything that
takes place on the
farm. It is very hard
to make dependable
economic assess-
ments without complete
knowledge of the individual
production of crops and stock,
of the performance and costs
of machines, of the returns
from labor, etc.
Another advantage is that a
manv new and mnd farm-
not accented
, ®JV , ’ , JL
. , , , • f
de ” n ° be assessed
* e f f , • lf
a farmer for himself ’ or a
! oCa l S r °up can organise one
test or ad lts members -
At the school a new type of
farm « rs ’ organisation was dis-
cussed.sstated in New
Zealand as the Farm Improve-
rnent Club Movement, and
there are now clubs in Victoria
and at Bombala in New South
Wales.
Such a club—a group of
about 50 farmers—employs its
own technical adviser to help
its members, largely with prob-
lems of management. The
function of the adviser is not


High-Grade
Riding Boots
For over 50 years, Byrne Bros, have
been Australia’s leading shoe makers.
Quality, styling and true craftsmanship
will be found in every pair of Riding
Boots, whether they be a stock size or
tailored to your individual requirements.
Riding Boots, tailored from high-quality
imported German Calf and English Silk
Elastic £l2/12/-
Tailored to measure ... .... £l4/14/-
YRNE BROS.,
Shoemakers for 50 years
15 WILMOT STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite the Trocadero)
so much to tell farmers how
they should farm as to collect
and bring to their attention all
possible information on the
matters in hand. Much valu-
able information is gof from
the farms in the group, from
their successes and failures and
the reasons for them.. The
adviser gets the full confidence
of all members, and is able to
compare and combine all local
.experience, as well as being
able to call on all the usual
official information.
It is much easier for 50
formers to hire one man to
do this, and to give them, as
well, the benefit of his special-
ised training and experience,
than for each man to be
scratching around, independ-
ently, after the same material.
Members are very happy to
pay arourtd £BO a year each
for such services—the improve-
ments have been worth much
more.
An interesting question
raised at the school was
whether farmers should be
competitors with each other or
co-operatorS. It was generally
agreed that we would all profit
/host by sharing fully any
information that is available,
by learning from each other’s
trials and errors, and by com-
bining, as much as possible,
in processing and marketing
operations and for purchase of
supplies. This would still leave
plenty of scope for initiative
and sound judgment in each
individual farmer.
Conditions vary so much
from farm to farm that there
is no general rule which can
be applied to a problem in
every case. Each farmer must
adapt it to his own conditions
or think out an entirely new
approach for himself.
The good manager will thus
gain an advantage by being
ahead of general practices. He
gets more profits than others
do, until slower farmers catch-
up and their competition has
its effect on markets, prices,
etc.
Where prices and quotas are
controlled, and vary slowly by
regulation based on the
average cost of production, the
good manager gains by having
lower costs of production
before others do.
Mr. McFarlane pointed out
that surveys of costs in Aus-
tiafia revealed that on some
farms the costs for the same
product were up to 300 per
cent, above those on other
farms, so there is plenty of
room - for improvement. He
considered that the more effici-
ent farmers would be quite
able to carry on under much
reduced export prices.
Drought-resister
“Billjim”: A grass that may
go far towards solving fodder-
problems in the drier areas is
the South African unarlee, or
perennial-veldt, which has been
very'successfully tried at Coon-
alpyn Downs, a segment of the
90-mile desert in S.A.
A deep, fibrous - rooted
perennial which produces a
heavy, well-stooled growtfy of
sweet, succulent leaf, it remains
green summer and winter, and
is so palatable and nutritious
that stock prefer it to clovers
and lucerne.
For best results, sow in
July or August on well-prepared
fallow, destroying autumn and
winter feed-growth at the time
of sowing. Veldt-grass pro-
duces no nitrogen of its own,'
so it's advisable to sow with
sub.-clover or a suitable medic.
In dry test-areas a mixture
comprising 21b.-31b. with
alternatively llb.-lflb. of sub.-
cloyer or lib. of medic has
shown good results.
Sowing should be shallow,
and 901 b. of super, is recom-
mended.
Unarlee will also combat
erosion, when sown with a
light cereal cover-crop.
Summer Feed
“Rayo”: Instead of letting
their stock eat too much unnu-
tritious feed during the summer,
many graziers are preserving
food-values in grass not saved
for fodder, either by baling the
pasture and leaving it in the
paddock or by leaving grass in
the swathe or winnowing it.
The latter method is.cheaper
and is gaining a lot of favor in
South Australia.
With a power-sweep or a
buckrake it's possible to rake
the windrows into cocks or
small stacks which turn the
rain well and preserve more
green color in the sample.
Bread or Biscuits?
“Carlyle”: Wimmera wheat-
growers were interested to learn
from the recervt conference of
the cereal-chemistry group of
the Royal Australian Chemical
Institute that the Wimmera is
regarded as the centre of soft-
wheat production in Australia
and source of a type of soft
flour much sought after by
biscuit-manufacturers.
This was refreshing news,
after the traditional complaint
that Wimmera wheat has too
low a gluten-content to make
good bread. Wheatgrowers
were encouraged to hear a
leading Sydney biscuit-manu-
facturer deplore efforts to
develop breeds ( of wheat for
the Wimmera ! that would
provide flour suitable for
bread-making ; t he said that,
since the Wimmera is the only
area in Victoria which pro-
vides good biscuit-wheat, it
should be kept solely for that.
In the last few years such
breeds as Pinnacle and Olympic
have largely replaced low-pro-
tein strains in the Wimmera,
with a fairffneasure of success
as far as bread-making goes.
But evidently N.S.W. has avail-
able plenty of wheat for bread-
making, though little suitable
for biscuits and cakes. In
Victoria the reverse is the case.
Manufacturers are prepared
to collaborate with millers and
wheatgrowers and define flour
and wheat characteristics
needed for the biscuit-industry.
This is necessary because at
present there is no uniformity
oF machinery among manu-
facturers producing the same
type of biscuit, and the demand,
for specific types of flour
varies accordingly.
Action is also needed at
Government level. Agricul-
tural economists must decide
whether the market warrants
continued production of low-
protein breeds on land which
has proved eminently suitable
over the years, and the Aus-
tralian Wheat Board must see
that a potential market is not
neglected for want of organisa-
tion.
Sweet Sorghums
“North”: As an auxiliary
fodder for stock sweet sor-
ghums are profitable summer
and autumn crops, able to
resist drought, giving heavy
yields and good for fattening.
Also, chaffed and fed with


start the day right
m
m
i m
0U0»« C
t»jgg
watch his eyes
LIGHT UP
when you give him a
..... :
this Christmas
Barling Briar Pipes are cut from rare roots of
great age. Only the finest grains are selected.
There is no ‘‘breaking in" and, to ensure free
draught, only the finest vulcanite is bored.
Give him a Barling—he'll be delighted.
Obtainable from all Leading
Tobacconists
Trade inquiries: Box 502, G.P.0., Sydney.
mmm
mm
Mm&BmmzmeSZZ
some concentrate they increase
the milk-flow in dairy-cows.
Sorghum will grow in most
types of fertile soil, but deep,
rich, friable loam produces the
heaviest crops. Poor land
needs a dressing of superphos-
phate and bone-dust, mixed in
equal proportions, at the rate
of to the acre.
Plough the field deeply and
bring it to a fine tilth by
harrowing. Sow the seed as
soon as frost-danger is past,
with further sowings at inter-
vals till January or, in warmer
districts, the end of February.
These late plantings mature at
the end of autumn, and will
stand well into the winter with-
out deterioration. Sown in
drills, 81b. to 101 b. is enough
for an acre ; when broadcast,
151 b. to 201 b. Farmers on
Queensland’s Darling Downs
sow the seed through an
ordinary combine, blocking-up
some of the drills, so that the
rows will stand about 3ft.
apart. This allows for scarify-
ing if that becomes necessary.
The time to cut sorghum is
after the flower-heads appear
but before the seeds begin to
harden ; after that stage the
food-value quickly decreases.
'ln the early stages of growth
sorghum - leaves contain a
deadly poison, hydrocyanic-
acid. As the plants develop,
this disappears, and when the
seed has formed there is no
trace of it. As a precaution,
the stalks should be allowed
to wilt in the sun for a few
hours after cutting, and then
may be fed to stock with
perfect safety.
Many farmers on the Downs
turn their cattle, in on the crop
at all stages of growth, with
practically no losses. However,
it’s best not to put any stock
into the crop on an empty
stomach, and they should
remain there only a brief time
until they become used to it.
Sorghum wilted by dry
weather, stunted plants and
immature sorghum that has
been frosted will cause trouble
unless care is taken in feeding.
Sweet sorghums make excel-
lent ensilage, but should not
be cut until the seeds are quite
hard. Of the three varieties
grown on the Downs (sugar-
drip, cowper and sumac),
sugar-drip is best for ensilage.
Pittman and
Molybdenum
R. James is wrong in saying
(B. 22/10/’5B) that the Pittman
Technique has “now ....
developed itself” by adding
molybdenum to its fertiliser-
mixture after the need for this
had been shown by pasture-
officers of the Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture.
Molybdenum has been part
of the Pittman mixture recom-
mended for use in the Central
Highlands during the last five
or six years. Pittman first told
me about it in 1950, when it
was so new that I had to buy
it in a bottle from an industrial
chemist.
I am fully aware of the
important work done by Rex
Newman, of the Victorian
Department of Agriculture, in
defining the areas of Victoria
where molybdenum is needed
for full growth of clover. Some
of the plots he laid down were
on my property Wood-
end (Vic.). Application, at his
suggestion, of super, and
molybdenum to my bit of
sub.-clover, which had been
painfully established by “con-
ventional” methods, was a
complete success. But this all
happened at least a year after
I had tried molybdenum on
Pittman’s advice.
The truth is that neither
Pittman nor Newman dis-
covered the value of molyb-
denum. Both applied the dis-
covery to Victorian conditions
at roughly the same time.
The rest of R. James’s article
is a well-presented example of
the new method of disparaging
the Pittman Technique, now
that the old way of dismissing
it as nonsense has had to be
dropped. Pittman’s work has
been confirmed by too many
pasture-experts and used suc-
cessfully by too many farmers
to be thus brushed-off. In-
stance the number of Vic-
torians who wrote on these
“M.O.L.” pages some time
back of their results'with the
Pittman Technique.
The new method of dis-
paragement takes-over the
technique, and presents it in
slightly different form, without
mention of Pittman, leaving
out the idea of inoculation
and advocating the use of less
lime, since 50-50 and inocula-
tion are so closely tied-up with
Pittman. This is unfair not
only to Pittman but to those
who might accept these recom-
mendations.
Whether any property needs
the full Pittman Technique, or
this half-Pittman Technique,
depends on soil-acidity. The
worst that can happen if a
farmer on less-acid soil uses
the full technique is a small
addition to the cost of a suc-
cessful sowing. On the other
hand, to do away with inocu-
lation and use less lime where
the soil is strongly acid might
well result in the complete
failure of an expensive opera-
tion.
Pittman enthusiasts do not
try to say that the Piffman
Technique is needed under all
conditions. What they want
is to get its opponents to admit
that there are some conditions
where it is essential. They
became enthusiasts after prov-
ing just this fact on their own
properties, after costly failures
by other methods, and now
hope they may help others to
avoid similar failures.
C. S. Prictor.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(30/10/’58)
Rainfall may be patchy in Queensland during
November, apart from moderate rains on the coast from
Rockhampton southwards, but there should be good general
rains in December. Rainfall may again be patchy in
January, apart from fairly heavy rains on the Peninsula
and north-west and south-west areas.
In N.S.W. the coast, tablelands and n.w. slopes and
plains areas are likely to receive moderate rain in November,
although rainfall may be patchy elsewhere, with good
general rains in December. Moderate to good rains should
occur on the same areas during January, but-patchy else-
where, with general rains during February.
Reasonably good rains are indicated in the southern
half of Victoria during November, varying from light to
moderate in the Mallee and northern divisions. General
rains are likely in December, with good follow-on rains
during the first quarter of 1959.
Most of South Australia may expect only poor rainfall
during November, apart from light rain in the central and
south-east districts. Good general rains in December.
Moderate rain should occur in the North Kimberleys
during November, although the rest of Western Australia
may receive only poor rainfall. The Kimberleys, south-
east area, Eucla and part of the south-west agricultural
areas may expect good rains in December.
LENNOX WALKER


blue mountains-
HOME and BUSINESS
Would you like your own home on the Mountains and
£2OOO per year?
Opportunity to buy comfortable Home, well-known
Holiday Cabins and Petrol Station.
Easily managed by couple or small family, and un-
imited scope for expansion.
Enquiries to P.O. Box 6, MOUNT VICTORIA
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.*
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, ’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
r« § ••• r »••#••••• • • • •
Rates (A/asia): 1 year— £2 Bs.; \ year— £l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight— Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.JI:
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to "The Bulletin or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
Pitman Technique
'T'HB following telegram was
received from K. G.
Schoeffel on November 5:
THE PITMAN TECHNIQUE
STOP EXTENDS CORDIAL
INVITATION TO CORRES-
PONDENT R. J. JAMES AND
READERS GENERALLY TO
ATTEND DEPARTMENT AGRI-
CULTURE FIELD DAY MY
PROPERTY HAUNTED HILLS
PRINCES HIGHWAY MOE
VICTORIA SATURDAY 15TH
NOVEMBER 1 P.M. STOP
SPEAKERS INCLUDE MR.
REID DEPUTY DIRECTOR SIR
HERBERT HYLAND AND H. A.
i. PITMAN STOP 50 ACRES
POOR ACID COUNTRY SOWN-
DOWN 5 r MONTHS AGO PIT-
MAN TECHNIQUE AND ABOUT
200 ALTERNATIVE AND
CONTROL PLOTS SOWN SAME
TIME SAME PADDOCK STOP
RESULTS MUST INTEREST
ANYONE PROPOSING SPEND
MONEY DEVELOPING OUR
POORER COUNTRY . . . K. G.
SCHOEFFEL.
Japanese Millet
' “Myall": Japanese millet is
invaluable as a quick-growing
catch-crop. It stools well, and
yields a heavy crop of nutri-
tious fodder, often as much as
10 to 12 tons per acre. Sown
as soon as all danger of frost
is past, it’s ready for grazing
in four to six weeks, and will
continue to produce until
autumn. Under favorable con-
ditions it will carry 12 to 15
sheep to the acre.
Also, it may be-safely stocked
at any stage, is a good milk-
producer, arid will not cause
bloat or milk-taint. It isn't
particular as to soil —it will
succeed on poor, light land or
pn heavy, alluvial flats —but
its ideal is a mellow loam, rich
in humus.
The seed is best sown in
drills, spaced 7in. apart, at the
rate of 81b. to 101 b. per acre ;
if broadcast, 151 b. to 201 b. will
be needed. Sow at a depth of
fin. to Kin., according to the
soil —the heavier the ground,
the shallower the sowing. Seed
may be sown until the end of
January to give good crops.
If intended for grazing, turn
the animals in when it is 6in.
0r Tin. high ; feed it down
fairly close, and it will stool
and thicken-up considerably.
If required for cutting, sow
in drills 14in. apart, at 41b. or
51b. per acre. Mow just before
the flower-heads appear, setting
the knife about 3in. or 4in.
from the ground. As many as
four cuttings may be obtained
in a season. Allow the plants
to wilt before feeding to stock,
especially to milking-cows.
Cut before the seed is fully
mature, Japanese millet makes
excellent hay and chaff see
that the hay is perfectly dry
before it's baled or chaffed,
otherwise it will become
mildewed, and dangerous to
animals. The plant is also use-
ful for ensilage, if cut when
the heads are mature, but
before they ripen.
Used as a green-manure, it
should be turned under when
from 4in. to 6in. high. It
quickly decays, so may be over-
planted with small crops, such
as strawberries and vegetables,
as soon as ploughed-in.
Japanese millet responds to
fertiliser ; up to 3cwt. per acre
may be applied, mixed with the
seed and put through the
fertiliser-box. (If this is done,
use granulated super, to avoid
clogging the drills.) I
New Trace-element
Technique
“Bogaduck”: The first field-
trials of methods for correct-
ing trace-elements deficiency
in Australian soils seemed to
show that country with sandy
soil and carrying a stunted
scrub in its natural state merely
needed small quantities of ele-
ments such as copper, zinc,
manganese and molybdenum,
as well as super., to grow good
pastures.
Over of acres with
rainfall ranging from 16in. to
28in. a year this held good, and
where there was a poor res-
ponse a lime-dressing usually
did the trick.
In the south-east of South
Australia, however, there
remained a few hundred-
thousand acres where this
technique failed. The cause
was a mystery for years, but
now the S.A. Department of
Agriculture has found that the
trouble is due to the fact that
when the salts of copper ancl
zinc are in contact with newly-
sown seed of lucerne and clover
they kill the nitrogen-fixing
bacteria, without which
legumes cannot grow.
The new technique is to sow
the clover or lucerne with only
super, and lime, then wait for
the seed to germinate. When
the plants are a few weeks old
an additional topdressing of
super, is broadcast, this time
containing copper and zinc.
The pasture then responds in
the vigorous way normal after
the correction of trace-elerhent
deficiency in other types of
soils.
Softwood Fence-posts
“Ex-R.S.M.”: It’s becoming
increasingly difficult to obtain,
posts for fencing; in some
districts even posts sawn or
split from second-class hard-
wood have been fetching £25 a
hundred.
Now, however, the round
trunks of eight-year-old Pinus
radiaia, athel tamarisk, and
other similar softwood
trees can be used. Put into the
ground untreated they wouldn’t
last a year; treated with a
suitable preservative, such posts
have a life of at least 25 years
—some of those put in 35 years
ago as an experiment are still
serviceable.
Young Pinus o r athel
trees, with a diameter of about
4in.-sin. under the bark, are cut
to length, bored for the wires
and stacked to dry. They are
then placed in a stout steel
cylinder like a steam-boiler, and
the preservative is forced into
the wood by pumping it in until
the pressure inside the cylinder
reaches 501 b. to the square-
inch.
Two preservatives can be
used : creosote and “Tanalith”-
C (a solution in water of
copper, chrome and arsenic).
Both render the timber proof
against any form of rot and all
insects which attack wood,
making the sapwood as durable
as the heart of hardwoods used
for fencing.
Treating posts in this way is
now standard practice in the
U.S.A., Britain, New Zealand
and South Africa, but it hasn’t
caught-on to any extent in Aus-
tralia, maybe because it seems
too good to be true.
What it actually means is
that all future needs of a
property in the way of posts
can be supplied by planting
Pinus radiaia, athel or similar
trees sft. apart on a piece
of waste ground. Cutting can
start by talcing out the bigger
ones when they are eight years
old.
As yet, the cylinders in which
the posts are treated have to be
made to order, but as soon as
people realise the value of
treated posts somebody is
bound to put the necessary
complete outfit on the market
for farm and station use.


Between
;
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?-
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MSRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
GUARD
Ca*h/
PROTECTA
RtgidxJutu/
TILL
Suitable for every type of business it records
all Sales, Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built;
pleasing in appearance. Send for full details
and literature lo
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE •
ADELAIDE
PERTH ,
W. C. Penfold St Co. Pty. Ltd.
• Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd,
t Vardon Price Ltd,
« Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Twenty copies of the Australian
Psalter, any condition. —6760.
To buy a copy of A. G. Stephens,
ed. Vance Palmer. —6761.
Information Sought
I’ve heard that the common shag
has been “discovered” as -li table
delicacy. Is this report correct ?
Yes; the report is quite correct.
Scientists have shown that
shags are a table delicacy. When
served as a “mystery course”
at the Science Congress dinner held
in Adelaide University on August 26
diners one and all thought it was
wild-duck.
The shag is an Australia-wide
problem. Each bird takes 4-51 b. of
fish per day; 100,000 birds take
over 70,000 tons of sporting and
marketable fish per year. In the
course of experiments to see if the
bird was edible it was discovered
that, if bled when shot, it could
not be distinguished from wild-
duck. These birds abound along
our coastline and inland rivers, and
the average shag is 2-2|lb'. of
dressed table-bird. Here’s one of
several shag recipes—this one is for
roast shag. You need 1 shag, 1
small onion, 6oz. breadcrumbs, loz.
butter, 1 clove garlic (crushed),
grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 bay-leaf,
a little milk, few sage-leaves and
salt pepper. Soak the bird in
salt-water for 2hrs., then wipe dry.
Mix well together the dry ingredi-
ents for the stuffing and bind with
the milk. Stuff the bird, put into
a baking-dish with 3-4 tablespoons
fat. Put into a hot oven for about
20- minutes, or until brown. Drain-
off the fat and add 2 cups red
wine. Cover the dish and bake for
about 2-|hrs., basting three or four
times during cooking.
• • • •
Details of the Pensioner Opto-
metrical Service, recently announced
by the Australian Optometrical
Association ?
The Australian Optometrical
Association will provide free ser-
vice to the country’s 450,000 age-,
widow- and invalid-pensioners holdr
ing pensioner medical-cards. Opto-
metrists in the five eastern capitals
and 139 towns are to give free eye-
examinations to as many as five
pensioners weekly. Any necessary
spectacles will be available at liberal
concession-rates, although the range
of frames will he restricted.
Optometrists in all States except
Western Australia are to take part
in the scheme; in the West, spec-
tacles at concession-rates have been
“Looks to me as though she's eloped with that
Hindu chap.”
available to pensioners for some
years. Each year the Pensioner
Optometrical Service expects to be
able to treat 75,000 pensioners.
Briefly, the scheme will operate
as follows: (1) A list has been
published for each State, giving the
names and addresses of the opto-
metrists participating. These have
been sent to pensioner organisations.
(2) A pensioner seeking treatment
will choose from the list, held by
the pensioner organisation, the
name and address of the local
optometrist whom he wishes to
consult. (3) From then on, he need
only contact the optometrist and
show his pensioner medical-service
card to be treated as a private
patient. Fees for examination and
service will not be charged.
If spectacles are necessary, the
optometrist will supply them in
serviceable plastic frames at sub-
stantial concessions. The pensioner
can return for free adjustments and
for a further test when needed.
Who wrote “Puss in Boots”?
The great French nursery-tale
compiler Charles Perrault (1628-
1703). It appeared at first in his
Contes des Fees (1697) under the
title “Le Chat Botte.” Perrault,
however, borrowed the idea from
an Italian work, The Nights, by
Straparola, which had been trans-
lated into French in 1585.
* * * *
Outline of the history of the
Australian Museum up to. the date
of its establishment on its present
site ?
In a dispatch dated March 30,
1827, Governor Darling was
informed that the Colonial Office
sanctioned the expenditure of £2OO
a year on the establishment of a
museum in Sydney. For the first
two decades of the Museum’s life
it had no regular address. At first
(1830) it was housed in the Judge-
Advocate’s office; from there it
was moved to the Legislative Coun-
cil Chambers, and in 1836, owing
to the growth of the collection,
shifted to Judge Forbes’s house at
the corner of Bridge and Gresham
Streets. At this time, according
to its first catalogue (1837), it had
800 exhibits.
In 1840 it was transferred to the
Surveyor-General’s office, opposite
the Mint; about 1842 it was placed
in the Darlinghurst Courthouse.
This travelling museum was origin-
ally known as the Colonial-Museum,
but in 1834 it was given its present
name. In April, 1836, the Colonial
Office had sanctioned the expendi-
ture of £4OOO on a building in
Hyde Park to house the Museum
and the Australian Subscription
Library. Nothing was done about
it until 1845, when Charles Nichol-
son persuaded the Legislature to
authorise a commencement of the
building opposite Hyde Park in
which the Museum is now housed.
Part of the existing north wing was
completed in 1849, and the collec-
tion transferred from the court-
house to it. The west wing was
begun in 1861; in 1892 an upper-
story was placed on the north wing;
in 1897 the south wing was begun,
and in 1909 the wing was enlarged.
* * * *
Are blue-tongued lizards danger-
ous to children ?
No, not in the last; they’re timid
and harmless, and only anxious to
escape attention. Naturally they
will defend themselves if grabbed
or molested, but as they have no
sharp teeth their bite is more like
a tight clamp. Their flickering
blue tongue is merely evidence of
extreme fright. Best to leave them
alone, allowing them some rocky or
neglected place in which to hiber-
nate in the winter. They are very
valuable in the .garden, relishing
snails, slaters and other pests. (See
also par. in “Aboriginalities” in this
issue.)
« • • *
How to prepare dried and glace
apricot's ?
Fruit should be ripe but firm,
not waterlogged by rain, and from
a tree of a good kind, preferably
the mid-season variety. Drying:
cut the fruit into halves and remove
the stone. Place on white paper
on an oven shelf or shallow dish,
and put in a very slow oven until
it appears to be well dried. Finish-
off by allowing to stand in the open
air for a day; when the fruit is
quite dry, pack into airtight jars
and store in a cool place. Candy-
ing: choose the same type of fruit
and cut in the same way. Make a
syrup of lib. sugar to lqt. water,
and boil the fruit very gently in this
until it is quite soft. Drain and
dry slowly in the oven with the
door slightly open, or in the sun-
shine, after sprinkling it with sugar
or rolling in sugar. Dipping in pure _
glycerine before sugaring and dry-'
ing gives a -good appearance, but it
is not really necessary. Other pro-
cesses call for gear not usually
found in the home.
For further information regarding
this work apply to the Under-
secretary, Department of Agricul-
ture, Perth, W.A.
* * * *
(1) Are all organ-pipes made of
metal ? (2) Which organ has the
world’s biggest pipe ?
(1) Organ-pipes are constructed
both of metal and wood. The


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
, INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1818
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
attttX n LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS MALCOLM Manager'
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. 0. S. PETTERSEN, Manage .
Branches In rill States Agencies in all Country Centres
“ Don't panic, lady — I'm Gentleman Jim, the romantic and chivalrous cracksman
reason for the use of the two
materials is that, generally speak-
ing, metal pipes produce a brighter,
stronger tone than the softer,
flutier wooden pipes. The basis ol
true organ tone is a set of pipes
called Open Diapason —metal, giv-
ing a rich, full foundational sound.
If an organ containing only one
stop could be imagined, an open
diapason would be the stop.
Usually wooden pipes apply to that
class of stop known as “flute"
(there are three broad classes of
organ tone: flute, string and reed),
although open, diapasons made of
wood are not uncommon. Perhaps
the most characteristic of wooden
stops is the stopped flute, Variously
named Hohlflute, Clarabella, Clari-
bel Flute, etc. Running a close
second to this type is the Stopped
Diapason, either of metal or wood
(so called because each pipe has
a bit of wood completely blocking
its top end,' which doubles the
column of vibrating air inside the
pipe and lowers its pitch). A great
saving in expense, as well as in
space, can be effected by installing
such pipes, since the lowest bass
pipe is only half the length of an
open {i.e,, unstoppered) pipe.
. (2) The world’s biggest organ-pipe
is in the instrument atf Atlantic City,
New Jersey, U.S.A. At Sydney
Town Hall the largest pipe is
about 59ft., which, as organ-build-
,n S goes, and in terms of length, is
comparatively rare. This particular
Pipe is made of wood ; metal pipes
°f 32ft. length are fairly common,
especially in England, where parish-
church organs are often of concert-
ball size.
* * * *
Origi n of the term “wowser,” for
killjoy ?
t e '' va li°n uncertain, but it seems
nave been a pure Australianism,
uJ" V. se l he term may have
°y the Sydney newspaper
“Truth” in October, 1899 —
“Willoughby Wowser Worried.” One
report has it that the then owner-
editor of “Truth,” John Norton (1862-
1916), coined the word from the
phrase “We Only Want Social Evils
Remedied (Righted or Rectified)."
Another version is that he created
it at a meeting of the Sydney City
Council, when, as a dull councillor
was stuttering over a word begin-
ning with W, Norton exclaimed,
“Wow! Wow! You're nothing
but a Wow, sir!”. However, it has
also been claimed that the term was
used on the Victorian goldfields
long before Norton’s time. _ Then
again, according to Eric Partridge's
Slang, “wowser” was “coined by
Norman Lindsay in a series of car-
toons ( ca. 1908),” H. L. Mencken
(1880-1956), the American authority
on slang, once wrote that he
thought so highly of the word that
he had been trying to introduce it
into the U.S.A. for many years, but
without success.
•** * *
What is meant by the counts in
woQlclassing?
The counts used in woolclassing
are trade-terms to designate the
degree of fineness of the wool.
The spinning count of any par-
ticular type of wool refers to the
number of hanks of yarn which
lib. of top combed from that type
will spin. A hank measures 560
yards. Therefore, a 60’s type will,
when scoured and combed, spin
60 x 560 = 33,600 yards from
lib. of top. The finer the wool the
farther lib. of it will spin. Stan-
dards of spinning-count for Merino-
wools are: Strong, 60’s; medium,
64’s; fine, 70’s; superfine, 74’s and
better. As a rule, the highest
spinning-count used in commercial
practice is 80's. With the exception
of 66’s intermediate counts are not
used, so that any which might spin
61’s, 62’s or 63’s would be regarded
as a 60’s. In short, a wool of any
standard spinning-quality, such as
a 64's, may spin anywhere between
64’s and the next-highest standard
(70's). Crossbred-brand spinning-
qualities range from 30’s to 60’s,
while comeback occupy between
crossbred and Merino, slightly over-
lapping both their limits.
* * * *
Why are petrol-drums always of
44-gallon capacity ?
The 44-gallon drum,, has been the
standard size for petroleum products
virtually from inception, but as far
as can be ascertained there is no
conclusive explanation for it.
Among relevant factors are the
following(1) It conforms to the
U.S.A. barrel, which contains 55
American gals.; (2) it is convenient
from a weight viewpoint, since five
full drums closely approximate one
long-ton; (3) it is an easy multiple
in calculations, although it is sen-
sibly argued that 40gals. or 50gals.
per drum are perhaps more advan-
tageous for this purpose.
Before the days of bulk-terminals
and tanker-shipments products were
imported direct in U.S.A. barrels,
containing 44 to 45 Imperial gallons.
Large numbers of drums became
available in Australia through these
channels. Principal difference: 1.2
U.S.A. gals, are equivalent to 1
Imperial gal. [From D. Braham,
manager, Caltex Oil (Australia) Pty.,
Ltd.]
Brief Answers
E.D.: Solar Hot Water Systems,
26 First Avenue, Loftus, N.S.W.,
may be able to help... .C.M.:
Write to the Registrars of Births,
Deaths and Marriages in each
capital-city or some large town in
each State. Actual cost is very
small, but there would be extras in
the way of tips, trimmings, etc.,
depending on taste of the parties.
....H.8.1.: Your pencil-tracing is
of an English crown (five-shilling
piece), still current money in Eng-
land. Collectors' value, i.e., asked
by a dealer, would be from 12s.
6d. to 15s.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
A 'ante and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
F. 8.: Write something about
prospecting... .P.J.G.: Too light.
D.G.K.: There are good lines
in “The Tree”; but a confusion of
images, too much abstraction and
too many words... .J.M.S.: Santa
Claus not for us;... D.J.H.: “The
Kiss” was at least surprising....
L.M.L.: But it wasn't all criticism;
and some of the, criticism was right.
. ...G.P.: That's a very brief sun-
rise. .. .J.M.D.: All miss.. . .R.G.:
If you are* young there’s some
promise in your exact observation
of nature; but if you're not young
you’d belter say it jn _ prose....
E.A.8.: A nice little poenr about
violets... .C.F.: Witches flew off.
... .E.P.8.: There’s not much hope
for it after so flat an opening:
The house stands in a small hollow
On the top of a hill
Remote
From this vicinity
Where 1 remain.
E.W.: “Relief Country” needs
to be either looser as a ballad or
tighter and finer as a lyrfcal con-
versation-piece... .8.C.: It might
please the girl, but it paints no
clear picture for the public....
G.M.: One stanza, then, from your
epic on the female space-driver who
collided with Mars —it certainly has
some enterprising rhymes:
The crowd never thins for it awaits the
message
From the woman shooting to the moon
on passage.
To be sure there's a woman up there,
I say,
Certainly not a man, you silly old
sausage. -
E.H.: Those three are rather
slight P.P.8.: It has the authen-
tic flavor of Colombo —but not of
poetry.... G.J.G.: “Below the
toothless rocks did stare/’ What
with —their gums? K.F.: The
Emily Dickinson one is the best;
but you hardly have her precision.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
It being one of those weeks in which
oil is discovered, naturally there was a
certain air of excitement round the city
in the past six or seven days—especially
so as Papuan oil shares seem to be held
by so many people. One was quite out
of it if one did not have at least a tiny
packet. Indeed, coupled with the fact
that it w'as Melbourne Cup Week, the
tension w'as a little overwhelming.
Nobody seems to have taken much
account of the news (tucked away in a
corner of the paper) that uranium has
been discovered at Lake Boga (Vic.), but
inhabitants of the North Shore Line,
whose hosing activities have been cur-
tailed, will go wild w'ith excitement if
we can only discover more water!
☆ ☆ ☆
We seldom make a feature of the
Harbor in our entertainment of over-
seas guests, so it was especially pleasing
to attend the garden - reception at
Admiralty House given by Minister for
Social Services Hugh Roberton for the
800 delegates to the first conference on
rehabilitation to be held in Sydney by
the International Society for the Welfare
of Cripples. Sir Kenneth Coles is presi-
dent of this society, and he and Lady
Coles helped to welcome the guests.
The Harbor, pleased no doubt at being
featured, looked blue, shining and
beautiful, her chief decoration being the
yachts in the regatta which the Royal
Sydney Yacht Squadron put on in honor
of the party. There were many interest-
ing people to be met strolling across the
lawns of Admiralty House. Mrs.
Katherine Oettinger, who had arrived
from Washington in the early hours of
the morning, said that she was the fifth
woman to be Chief of the Children’s
Bureau in Washington since its estab-
lishment in 1912—the bureau has never
had a man as its chief, and Mrs. Oettinger
is the first mother to hold the position.
She was wearing a sheath-dress of
an unusual material, a pure-silk tw r eed
with the appearance of fine knoppe-
linen.
The delegates from Asian countries
attending the conference contributed an
exotic touch to the dressing at the garden-
party. Notable were two charming young
social workers from Thailand, Miss
Chidchand Hansasuta and Miss Sumalee
Chistokovanij, wearing dresses in the
raw-silk for which their country is
famous. Dr. Oh Chung Hee (referred
to as “Dr. Oh”), from Korea, w r as an
exquisite figure in white and cyclamen
kimono. Tall Mrs. Lim from Manila
wore the butterfly-sleeved dress of the
Philippines, and among the dressing of
the Australian delegates one noted the
pink peonies on the hat of Mrs. D. F.
Pettinger. Nearly all the visitors had
cameras with them (topped by Miss
Isabel Mountford, from Victoria, who
had a movie-camera on a tripod), and they
certainly had many opportunities to take
fine pictures,
The engagement is announced of
Barbara Anne, twin daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Don Carroll, of Cremorne, to Roger
John, second son of Mr. and Mrs. Philip
Starling, of West Bollington, Cheshire,
England. Barbara and her twin-sister
Mary are associates of Sydney Technical
College, having gained their diplomas in
Design and Crafts at the National Art
School. They have been designing textiles
in Manchester, and it was there that the
newly-engaged couple met. Roger is a
scientist with a world-wide electrical-
engineering firm. Barbara and Mary are
granddaughters of the late Senator W.
Carroll, of Western Australia, who repre-
sented the Country party for over 12
years. The girls are at the moment gain-
ing experience in Parisian textile studios
and plan to return home early next year.
The wedding of the year is yet to
come. It will be that of Judith Wood-
ward, only daughter of the Governor,
Sir Eric Woodward, and Lady Wood-
ward, to Miles Little, of Darling Point,
on December 18. St. Andrew’s Cathedral
is the chosen church and, of course;
the reception will be held at Government
House. Bridesmaids are to be Rosemary
Ashton (Double Bay), Jan Bore (Rose
Bay) and Gillian Broinowski (Pymble).
* ☆ *
Finishing-school for Pamela Ingleby,
who returned recently from a 12-month
sojourn in Europe, covered a much wider
and more varied course than one usually
associates with such establishments.
Although “Feminine Humanities” (social
graces) formed part of the curriculum
at Villa Beata, the Swiss finishing-school
she attended, other courses ranged from
sculpture to skiing. French literature
was studied at Fribourg University, and
a seven-week visit to Italy was included
in the art-studies. Pamela also spent
four weeks in Paris at the Convent of
the Holy Child, from which she made
visits to Lourdes and places of art and
cultural interest. Her return home was
preceded by a month in London, and she
is now concentrating on her study of
sculpture.
☆ ☆ ☆
Work started during the week on a
new film to be made in Australia, the
setting Fort Denison, commonly known
as Pinchgut (and innocently referred to
by one of the guests at the Admiralty
House party as “Catgut”). A coincidence
is that Miss Heather Sears, who is star-
ring in this film. “The Siege,” is also
appearing in “The Story of Esther
Costello” at one of the city theatres. She
won great praise for her part in this film,,
which also stars Joan Crawford.
☆ ☆ ☆
Other excitements of the week included
the arrival of designer Joern Utzon, ready
now to talk about the actual building
of the Opera House. It was not really
surprising to hear that the cost of the
structure, which was estimated at first at
£3.7 million, will probably be more like
£4.8 million. Everyone who has ever
built a house, decorated a room or
bought a new outfit knows that the cost
is always more than one thought it
would be.
☆ ☆ ☆
Christmas events are already dotting
the diaries. The Home Command Head-
quarters of the R.A.A.F. have issued
invitations to their beautiful formal
Christmas ball on December 5. Later
in the month, on December 19, the Vice-
Chancellor of the University, Professor
5. H. Roberts, and Mrs. Roberts will
give a reception in the Great'-Hall. This
is always one of the most, refreshing of
the Christmas parties. It is so cool in
that Great Hall! Another delightful
party to be looked forward to is the
cocktail-“do” to be given by Mr. and
Mrs. Allan Williams at their Killara
home, Rose Lynne, and a party that
promises to be fun is that of the Society
of Women Writers —a Book. Tea on
November 27.
V V V
Miss Anne Campbell, well-known
horsewoman and winner of the 1958
Garryowen Trophy, is the honorary
organiser of a Horse Show at the Castle
Hill Showground on Saturday, December
6, in aid of the general executive of Torch
Bearers for Legacy. She and her com-
mittee, Mrs. J. J. Amory, Mr. Ross FieW
and Mr. Douglas Green, have arranged
for at least 54 events, including Olympic
jumping, hacks and ponies, both adult
and children’s classes. Valuable trophies
have been donated for the main events.
Entry-forms for the competitions


available from Mrs. J. J. Amory
(WX 1710).
☆ ☆ ☆
Three-hundred of Sydney's talented
young people will be on stage in the
“Accent oh Youth” show at the Sydney
Town Hall on Monday, November 17,
at 8 p.m. Their ages range from 10 to
25 years, and for the first time in Australia
the show will include a colorful indoor
march-past of 50 surf-lifesavers. It’s to
be a big night of family entertainment,
and proceeds will benefit the Spastic
Centre.
MELBOURNE
The Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, and
Lady Brooks gave their traditional late-
afternoon party on Cup eve. Guests-of-
honor were the Governor-General, Sir
William Slim, and Lady Slim. Present
also were the Governor of Queensland,
Sir Henry Abel Smith, and Lady May
Abel Smith, down for their first Mel-
bourne Cup. About 400 guests were
welcomed in the State drawing-room,
which was beautifully decorated with
bowls of mixed flowers. Lady Slim chose
a full-skirted frock of navy-blue faille
patterned with a large flower-design in
beige. The frock was cut with a high
waist and a swathed bodice cut wide to
the shoulders. Lady Brooks received her
guests wearing a simple afternoon-frock
of navy-blue silk-organza with a shawl-
collar finishing the heart-shaped neckline.
Garnet-red velvet made the smart frock
worn by Lady May. With the Premier
was Mrs. Bolte, who topped her forest-
green taffeta frock with a cap of tiny
clusters of wattle-blossom.
Lady Herring, wife of the Chief
Justice of Victoria, chose a kingfisher-
blue silk frock and small cap of pastel-
pink petals. Lady Carrington, who came
from Canberra for the racing-season
with her husband, the U.K. High Com-
missioner, wore an outstanding frock of
peacock-green taffeta with a black petal
curvette. Rear-Admiral H. M. Burrell
was accompanied by Mrs. Burrell, whose
smart frock of nylon-stiffened organza
in two shades of grey featured a barrel-
skirt.
Black was chosen by many guests,
among them Mrs. Charles Parsons, jnr.
(Sydney), whose cocktail frock was of
fine black velvet with a slim skirt and
blouson bodice. She wore a narrow
black-velvet ribbon in her hair. The Lady
Mayoress (Mrs. F. W. Thomas) con-
trasted her black-silk frock with a pearl-
pink petal cap. Mrs. Stanley Korman,
who was with her husband, chose a
brilliantly patterned floral frock. Others
at this very happy party were Lady
Steele, Mrs. G. I. Stevenson, Sir Arthur
a nd Lady Warner, Lieut.-Commander
and Mrs. Peter Cooper, Sir Norman and
Lady Robinson and Dr. and Mrs.
Kenneth McLean.
•E ☆ ☆
No matter what the weather, the
Melbourne Cup meeting is always excit-
lng. First the arrival of the Governor
and his lady, who come early so that
they may receive the Governor-General
and Lady Slim. Then there’s the arrival
of the G.-G. and Lady Slim, who drive
up the straight in an open car, preceded
by their escort of mounted police with
pennants waving. Then the fashions.
There are always extravagant styles at
which to stare ; though this year there
were not so many. The unreliable
weather caused great heartburning, as the
women who arrived early came dressed
in tweeds and by mid-afternoon were
made uncomfortable by the blustering
north wind and brilliant hot sunshine.
By the time the Cup was run, the lawns
were dotted with the lovely printed-silk
frocks and gay hats of the later arrivals —
and the Governor-General was probably
quite right when he said as he presented
the Melbourne Cup to the part-owner of
the winning horse: “Not much work has
been done in Australia during the running
of this famous race.”
Mrs. John Carrodus is the very busy
president of the South Yarra auxiliary
of the Y.W.C.A. Through the work of
this auxiliary, the Toorak Mansions
hostel for young women has been artistic-
ally decorated to make a real home for
girls away from their own homes. Mrs.
Carrodus is also a member of the
Australian-American Association and is
one of a group which has raised a con -
siderable sum for the association s build-
ing-fund. She accompanied her husband
when he went to England and the U.S.A.
to study hotels and their management
for the Stanhill group. Running a home
and caring for her two children — Robert,
who is at Wesley College, and Suzanne
at Lauriston —keeps Mrs. Carrodus busy.
Her favorite relaxation is a day at the
races.
Flowers bloomed in lovely profusion
at Flemington on Oaks Day. They
bloomed not only in the beds dotting
the lush green lawns but on the material
which made many beautiful frocks. Hats
were adorned with flowers, roses bloomed
on shoes and on handbags. Dark pink
roses on a green background patterned
the silk sheath-frock worn by Mrs.
Ronald Marriott. A bandeau of pink
roses on a green velvet mount fashioned
her hat. Large roses in muted grey
and green tonings on a dark-green back-
ground was the lovely print chosen by
Mrs. Graham Nathan for her frock.
White and green roses trimmed her wide-
brimmed white panama-straw hat.
V v V
Guests at the Navy dinner-ball at the
St. Kilda Palais on Oaks Eve were greatly
disconcerted when, in the middle of'
dinner, lights failed and the Palais was
plunged into darkness. When lights were
restored, guests were informed that boys
letting off fireworks for Guy Fawkes
celebrations had thrown a rocket which
landed in a high-tension wire.
There was, of course, a strong nautical
flavor in the decor of the ballroom;
fluttering round about were flags, and
on each table were poles with miniature
signal - flags. Behind the official table
was a black backdrop with two gold
dolphins in front. The Governor, Sir
Dallas Brooks, was present with Lady
Brooks, who wore a full-skirted gown
of magnolia satin with rosettes of the
material, centred with rhinestones,
scattered over the skirt. A wide-scoop
neckline finished the fitted bodice.
The president of the ball-committee,
Lady Dowling, with her husband, Vice-
Admiral Sir Roy Dowling, received the
official guests. Her choice was a strap-
less gown of white satin embroidered
in a green-and-gold Paisley design. The
ruched hemline was defined with a band
of white satin which matched the cuffed
bodice.
The U.K. High Commissioner, Lord
Carrington, and Lady Carrington were
in the official party, she wearing an
Empire-line gown of scarlet delustred-
satin, with the fullness at the back of
the skirt tied in a large bow. Also in the
official enclosure were Rear-Admiral and
Mrs. H. M. Burrell; her gown was of
white silk organza and topped with a
strapless white-lace bodice threaded with
narrow black-velvet ribbon.
☆ ☆ ☆
History was made in this city when
the Governor-General, Field-Marshal Sir
William Slim, received from the Lord
Mayor (Cr. F. W. Thomas) a document
which made him an honorary Freeman
of Melbourne. In a'lush garden setting,
with an illuminated city crest hanging
high on the stage curtains, 600 dis-
tinguished Australians dined and then
watched this historic ceremony. And
while the Governor-General, the Gover-
nor of Victoria (Sir Dallas Brooks), the
Prime Minister and Premier Bolte dined
in the main Town Hall their wives and
those of City Councillors dined in the
upstairs reception-room with the Lady
Mayoress. After dinner the guests went
on to the balcony of the Town Hall,
where they listened to the speeches and
saw the Governor-General receive the
freedom of the city.


with a bit in the top-left comer;
suddenly dropping to another bit in
the bottom-right; stitching-in a bit in
the centre, then over to one side, and
back to the other ... a hopelessly
confusing method, the result of working
on a scale more gigantic than the form
of the novel will really permit.
In the end, when the patches have
been joined together and the relations
of the parts to the whole have been
made clear, the novel does settle down
fairly steadily and comprehensibly to
its central story of Zhivago and Lara;
but it cannot be said that Pasternak
makes these two very clear as charac-
ters or makes their story, as a human
drama, personally moving. Zhivago,
as the type of long-suffering liberal,
familiar in the Russian novel from
Dostoevsky and Tolstoi to Dudintsev,
may be dimly recognisable; but he is
not very much alive; and Lara, seduced
in her youth by a rich man and ever
afterwards haunted by her degradation,
remains utterly mysterious in her
motives and even her appearance—
there is nothing of that wonderful vivid-
ness you get in the portraits of both
Tolstoi’s and Turgenev’s women.
She and Zhivago, with the other
characters whirling about them in
tantalising glimpses, meet and part,
meet and part again, joined or torn
asunder by the chances of war and
revolution, like figures in an immense
and tragic Russian ballet; and it is as a
ballet, infinitely tragic and infinitely
sincere, a living ballet of fifty years of
Russian history, brilliant in many of
its scenes of war and suffering, beautiful
in its evocation of the countryside, most
moving as a picture of confusion, terror
and despair, but not intimately alive
as a study of individual character, that
you finally have to accept the novel. It
stems directly from Tolstoi, without
quite Tolstoi’s powers of portraiture
and organisation; and if it is great it is
great in mass, in compassion and in
courage.
Pasternak finishes the huge book on
a note of hope. World War II was the
end of the “terrible years,” a sort of
inevitable climax to the Revolution,
the last “direct action of the causes
inherent in the nature of the upheaval
itself.” Now, “secondary causes are at
work,” heroic, “unspoilt” characters
are to appear, “a presage of freedom
was in the air throughout these post-
war years, and it was their only his-
torical meaning.” Tanya, the laundry-
girl, the child" of Zhivago and Lara,
both of whom have perished miserably,
will be “looked after” by Zhivago’s
brother, the successful and good-
natured General. One can only hope
that these prophecies are right. As
good a test as any will be what happens
to Pasternak.
D. S.
Hardy on S.-p.
There is nothing as sensational as
“Power Without Glory,” no attack
upon a well-known citizen, in Frank
Hardy’s new novel, The Four-Legged
Lottery (Werner Laurie), but he
certainly attacks Australia’s most
popular sport. It is curious to reflect
that this attack will not make him
popular with many who liked his first
book —yet the two books have the same
direction.
His narrator is writing the story in
jail; he is a bank-clerk doing time for
using bank funds to bet on horses. In
small type before each chapter he
records his progress with the book, his
subterfuges to secure paper, his wife’s
visit to tell him she is going to divorce
him, etc. And then, chapter by chapter,
he tells the story of Jim Roberts, whose
father, Tom, was a starting-price betting
addict.
Young Jim learned to gamble; then,
as a delivery-boy, stole customers’ pay-
ments to bet, and later ventured his
football-club’s funds on horses. He
miraculously escaped the consequences,
became a commercial artist, then took
to gambling again. But he would have
stayed in the clear except that his
friend the bank-clerk was jailed, and
all because the s.-p. bookie had welshed
on their big win. So Jim Roberts called
on the bookie, lost his temper and
kicked the bookie’s brains out. While
he was waiting to be hanged for this
he told the bank-clerk the story of his
life, with injunctions to write it.
Though Australia is publicised as a
working-class paradise, it is remark-
able how few working-class writers
there are; and for this reason the pain-
ful accuracy, the unmistakable feeling
that truth is being told, in Hardy’s
account of life in the Roberts’s home,
up at the pub and in the billiard-saloon,
go a long way to make up for the crude
sentimentality of the story and its politi-
cal direction. Only John Morrison and
Judah Waten, both Melbourne writers,
have the same truth with contemporary
Australians of the cities.
Hardy’s w'ell-known political lean-
ings appear first in his setting of this
book during the depression of the
’3o’s: changing times have embarrassed
him; workers like Tom Roberts don’t
have to cheat their wives so drastically
today of a few bob to bet on horses,
and, as Hardy says himself, the
adolescents of today are not much
interested in racing. Then, again, there
is young Jim’s being a Roman Catholic;
this enables Hardy to suggest that Jim’s
downfall was not obstructed by his
Church —but if anything fails to ring
true in Hardy’s picture of working-
class suburban life, it is his lack of any
suggestion at all of Roman Catholic
atmosphere—it is an outsider’s view.
Still, it enables Hardy to proceed to
his almost incredible peroration on the
last page, as his hero takes (no detail
spared) the drop:—
Did you hear it, you proud rich?
Did you hear it, you self-righteous
priest and parson? Did you hear it,
you bookmaker?... .All the men of
the earth, did you hear the thud of
the body of Jim Roberts as it
crashed into the savage vacuum of
the gallows?
You heard it?
Then may that thud form some
strange symphony to be played in all
the tongues of men, that all men
shall know the tragedy of it all —
the dreadful Australian tragedy of it
all!
Whatever makes so capable an
observer as Hardy write like that is a
dreadful Australian tragedy indeed.
One-act Plays
The publication of plays is all too
rare in Australia, therefore Mrs. M. S.
Armstrong’s Plays in One Act will be
read with special interest; the more so
because Australian playwriting is in the
news at the moment and because
Edwards and Shaw have printed this
book in a most attractive and distinc-
tive format.
It cannot be said that Mrs. Arm-
strong has quite the stature as a play-
wright to stand up to this exceptionally
eager scrutiny. “'Thomas,” the first of
her one-acters, is a very slight, homely
little piece about tw'o old spinsters who
find that they prefer the company of
their cat to that of their unbelievably
coarse and arrogant nephew who comes
to stay with them.
“Drought,” placed third in the book,
has indeed been played quite a bit. It
was a prizewinner “years ago” in an
English competition organised by the
International One-Act Play Theatre,
has previously been printed by Harrap
in their “Prize One-Act Plays” and has
been performed in England, Wales,
South Africa and New Zealand as well
as in Australia.
The publishers say it is still asked for
and produced; and so it well may be,
for it has some melodramatic force and
makes the statement people like to hear
about the harshness of the outback. No
doubt there are ways of coping with
the problem of the huge red sun, “like
a peering eye,” the dust-storm and the
horse and sulky which have to appear
on stage. But it seems out-of-period
now, a wild little melodrama of the
suffering outback wife and the farmer
who goes mad and shoots himself. It
belongs to the pioneering efforts in
Australian playwriting.
But “Penny Dreadful,” printed


Early Georgian
Extracts from the Journal of George Allen
edited by G. W. Dundas Allen
George Allen, the first Colonial Attorney and Solicitor to be professionally educated in
N.S.W., arrived in Australia in 1818 at the age of 15. The journal he kept until 1877, now
edited by his great-grandson, has many interesting notes on the turbulent society of his
day and provides an illuminating picture of life in Sydney as it was lived in the family
circle and the field of public affairs. 25/- (post 7d.)
at all booksellers and . . ,
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
second in the book, makes one pause
for a considerably longer scrutiny.
Perhaps simply because Mrs. Arm-
strong wasn’t pioneering here, but
working in the long - established
category of the thriller, it is much the
firmest and much the most interesting
of the three plays. There is nothing
wrong with a “penny-dreadful” in the
theatre —if it is a good one—and there"
seem to be distinct possibilities in this
clear-cut, intriguing and even moving
little drama.
• It is about a playboy doctor who
poisons his first wife and, when he is
accused of the crime, with evidence,
by her dotty old aunt, mixes a dose
of poison for the old lady. Whereupon
his second wife, who has faintly sus-
pected him of the murder, drinks the
poison herself: because if he is innocent
that will tend to prove it, and if he is
not innocent she feels she might as well
be dead anyway—which she promptly
is. It is certainly interesting to read
and might play more interestingly still
—even in the commercial theatre.
Stalingrad
Stalingrad, by Heinz Schroter, trans-
lated by Constantine Fitz Gibbon
(Michael Joseph), is a German war-
correspondent’s authentic story of
Stalingrad in all its ghastly detail.
Said Hitler to the Nazi “old guard”:
“I wanted to take the place (Stalingrad),
and, do you know, we’ve pulled it off,
except for a few enemy positions still
holding out ”
An army of 300,000 men marched
to the Volga. Because of Hitler’s
orders to hold fast, 250,000 were
surrounded in November. In February
123,000 were taken prisoner, and, of
these, only 5000 were subsequently
repatriated.
Hitler, not for the first or last time,
had underestimated his enemies: “The
Russians are finished. In four weeks’
time they will collapse.”
At Hitler’s headquarters a violent
struggle prevailed between the Supreme
Commander backed by Goering,
Keitel and Jodi —and the Army
General Staff represented by General
Zeitzler:—
Hitler’s point of view was not
based on military considerations. He
simply did not wish to withdraw
from the Volga. In his political
broadcasts he had repeatedly
affirmed: “Where the German
soldier has once set foot, there he
remains.” He believed that will-
power alone makes anything pos-
sible, regardless of the means avail-
able.
“It is a crime to leave the Sixth
Army where it is. The entire army
must inevitably be slaughtered and
starved. We cannot fetch them out.
The whole backbone of the Eastern
Front will be broken if the Sixth
Army is left to perish at Stalingrad.”
—Those were Zeitzler’s words,
repeated not once but a hundred
times.
Hitler took the disaster calmly—
and coldly:—
“The sacrifice of the Sixth Army
was necessary,” he explained, “in
order to enable a new front to be
built farther west. The weather and
the fact of the icy, merciless winter
setting in sooner than expected were
to blame for the failure of the air-
lift. The scales were weighted
against Germany by a Higher
Power: the ways of the Almighty
are inscrutable.”
Not for the squeamish, this is a
terrible yet objective book. The
author, apparently, does not expect the
world to learn its lesson, for he con-
cludes: “The dead remain and the best
of them bear no star. Injustice and
wrong will always be the fate of man.
The Napoleonic dictum that might is
right will be heard again and the future,
like the past, will show how evil
flourishes when God is denied.”
Reviewed Briefly
Tradition and Gigli: E. Herbert -
Caesari (Hale). A lament for the bel-
canto school, which, says the author,
has been going-off since 1860, and of
which Gigli is the last great representa-
tive—partly because of his given voice,
partly because he has “School” as
opposed to “Method.” Very hard on
“method,” is Herbert-Caesari. He
quotes “a few ambiguous ‘aids’ to
modern production, of international
invention and usage, collected over the
years:—
Sing through a hole at the back of
your neck and imagine the audience
to be at the back... .You must
waggle your ears and eyebrows
when you produce high notes
Put vaseline in your nose for the
high notes and then imagine that you
are frightened.. . .You can only
learn to sing properly by imitating
the purest of nature’s noises, such as
an animal in pain To sing , well
you must grin like a Cheshire cat
....The nose is the singer’s real
mouth.... When you sing, assume
the facial expression of the village
idiot. .. .Think of stinking fish to
produce the head voice
“You would be greatly surprised.” he
goes on, “if I revealed who were the
inventors of some of the above balder-
dash —maybe: but one has heard a
great many of their pupils.
* * * *
Odd Men In: A. A. Thomson
(Museum Press). A book of unusual
stories about “characters” who have
played cricket, mostly English
cricketers of a long-past age. Apart
from incidental references to Aus-
tralia and its cricketers (including the
remark that “the Australian tempera-
ment seldom cripples itself with under-
statement”), there are only three Aus-
tralian subjects: the team of aborigines
which went to England in 1868;
Bonnor, one of the biggest-hitters the
game has ever seen; and a Melbourne
club-match in 1898 in which one team
made a mammoth 1094 and its
opponents, with three men unaccount-
ably absent, could score only 76 in
reply.
* * * *
Culture and History: Philip Bagby
(Longmans). The author is an Ameri-
can diplomat, aged 40, who resigned
in 1949 to study history and anthro-
pology at Harvard, Rome and Oxford.
His book is a long and loose study of
previous efforts to make rules for
previous civilisations (he lists nine:
Babylon, Egypt. India, China, Classi-
cal, Near East, Peru, Middle America,
Western Europe). He thinks Toynbee
on similar matters can’t see the prob-
lem because of his religious tendencies,
but allows that Spengler might have
been on the right track. How he goes
himself may not yet be discerned, since
this 222-page book is merely his
“Prolegomena”; still, a work with a
222-page introduction may well be
said to “show promise.”


STIRLING MOSS,
winner of this year’s Argentine,
Dutch and Portuguese Grand Prix
classics and twice runner-up in
the World Championship series .
names
in Motor Sport
"s
:v. >■
JACK BRABHAM
Australia’s outstanding
international-class driver who,
With Moss, drove to victory
in the 1958 Nurburgring
1000 Km sports car race.
:; :
and
ENERGOL
MOTOR OIL
• ••the BEST for you, too
is YOUR choice 0f...
SUPER
STANDARD
The BENZOL Blends
C 702
BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED, formerly The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited
