

Now Available in a
6-VOLT SIZE!
CENTURY’S
PROVEN HOMELIGHTING
BATTERY....
Here s a battery that brings a new conception in Homelighting
convenience.
IT’S CENTURY’S 613 CPG—a 6-volt battery with
transparent polystyrene container, glass insulation, and inbuilt
gravity ball hydrometer IN EACH 2-VOLT CELL.
613 CPG also contains SILVIUM, the magical LONG-
LIFE additive exclusive to CENTURY.
3 years practical experience all over Australia have
PROVED the superiority of this type of battery over
all others.
Century Homelighting batteries are supplied in WET and
FULLY CHARGED condition. Long experience has
shown that this is necessary to ensure the highest state of
efficiency.
Manufactured by CENTURY STORAGE BATTERY CO.,
LTD., Alexandria, N.S.W.
DISTRIBUTED BY:
Bradley Bros. Ltd.', Grimly Ltd., Motor
~ , , r. ■ raders Pty. Ltd., Sydney; Industrial
Sales and Service Pty. Ltd., Lidcombe ; Century Storage Battery Co.
I ty. Ltd., North Melbourne; Century Batteries (S.A.) Ltd., Adelaide;
Plnll 'P s Battery Supplies Ptv., Brisbane; Plant and Plant
(Machinery) Pty. Ltd., Toowoomba; Samuel Allen & Sons Ltd., Towns-
ville; Wyper Bros. Limited, Bundaberg; Advanx Tyre and Motor Service,
Caii;ns ; Lawrence Motor Company, Rockhampton ; Corseiv.& Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Maryborough; Gvmpie Machinery & Electrical Coy., Gvmpie; Jas.
Croker & Sons, Mackay; Attwood Motors Pty. Ltd., Perth; C. C.
Boag Batteries, Hobart and Launceston; Allen Bros. (Darwin) Pty. Ltd.,
Darwin; Watson, Steele A: Ganley Ltd., Auckland, N.Z.
m.
m
m
Cenftuys fil3 CPG 6-volt Homelighting Balterv.
Aole inbuilt gravity ball hydrometer in all three
- volt cells. These show the battery’s state of
i tatge clearly visible at all times. A battery of
the same dimensions is also available as a 4-volt
unit.
GUARANTEED
3 YEARS
AT LEFT:—A complete "6-volt set of 6 Iq,1 q , CFG
Home Lighting batteries. Available also loi 32-
voll, r.O-voh and 110-volt installations. PRICE
OF COMPLETE 32-VOLT SEE COMPRISING
FOUR 6-VOLT UNITS AND TWO 4-
VOI.T UNITS, AT CAPITAL CITIES
IS ONLY
£5O
Send the coupon below fodav to CENTURY
STORAGE BATTERY CO., LTD., Birmingham
St., Alexandria, N.S.W. 8
Please send me full details of the Century 6 1 3 CPG
Home Lighting Battery.
NAME
ADDRESS
The Bulletin
"THE ILL WIND,” by R. S. P orteous —page 32
Wednesday, August 20, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered In Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


SHORT STORY WRITING
—A FASCINATING AND
PROFITABLE STUDY
Stott Students are taught how to write
stories that sell and are advised by the
College of the names anti addresses of
reputable Ijiterary Agents in various
countries who may he trusted to handle
Students’ MSS. to the best advantage.
A Student wrote: "l feel that, as a result
of talcing the Course, I am able to go on, know-
ing what is wanted, and how to do it. I have
learned all about, the market, what different
papers require, the rates of payment, etc.”
If YOU have a Story to tell, learn how
to tell it. This lucrative field of Author-
ship is waiting to pay well for good work.
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagrh
St.. Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane;
21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St.,
Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (S.IL 1858)
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2871, 0.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—flctloa,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
ABOUT THE JEWS
The collector’s taste for the strange
and rare which inspired Isaac Disraeli’s
“Curiosities of Literature” and made
the Duveens the world’s greatest art-
dealers is to be found in the new book
by Rabbi R. Brasch, of Sydney’s
Temple Emanuel, The Eternal Flame
(Angus and Robertson), essays of some
length on the Jewish religion, places
famous in Jewish history, Jewish
philosophers and Jewish customs.
He begins with the Jewish alphabet,
finding a short sermon in every letter.
The first, Aleph, for instance, is
never pronounced, and suggests to the
good Jew that more is often to be
gained by saying nothing than by
trolling it out. “Yod” (originally a
drawing of a hand) is so small that it
is the origin of everyone’s saying that
they “don’t care a jot.”
“Shin” (the tooth) brings references
to the Roman Catholic St. Apolonia,
patron-saint of dentistry, whose teeth
were broken and extracted by pagans;
to the Ephraimites, who died like the
Japanese who couldn’t pronounce “1”
when the Gileadites tested them on
the letter; to Job’s exact meaning when
he said that he escaped “with” the
skin of his teeth —long before modern
scientists demonstrated a skin on
teeth, Job knew about it; to the correct
mouth-wash for Jews; to the rule that
a Jewish master must release uncon-
ditionally a servant whose tooth he
knocked out; to King John of England’s
extracting a tooth a day from a Jew
until he paid-up his ransom; and to
the Nazis’ removal of gold crowns from
the teeth of Jews killed in concentra-
tion-camps.
The chapter on Jewish family-names
is quite as interesting. Jewish sur-
names are mostly only 150 years old.
In their various countries the Jews
have been forced or required to take
them—in Galicia the Government sold
them surnames on a graduated scale of
desirability; Stahl and Eisen (steel and
iron) came cheaper than Rosenthal and
Goldstein.
Names taken from places, personal
looks, occupations and animals are
more-or-less self-explanatory, but it is
interesting to find that some are made
from initials: Rambam, for instance, is
the name by which Rabbi Moses ben
Maimon is known to scholars, while
Rashi, “the Bible’s greatest commenta-
tor,” was originally Rabbi Sh’lomo
Its’chaki.
The English name Jehovah is a mis-
understanding of a Jewish four-letter
word which was never used except on
the Day of Atonement, and then only
the High Priest spoke it, and so softly
that no one could hear it; and now no
one knows how it was pronounced. To-
day Jews bypass the unpronounceable
word with “Adonai” (my Lord). All
that is known of the word is its con-
sonants, JHVH, and, as these are the
letters Yod, hay, vav, hay, the Gentiles,
by running them together with the
vowels of “Adonai,” produce
“Jehovah,” for which there is no real
justification; while the modern scholars’
version, Yahveh, is “only a guess.”
In this matter of the Gentiles’ mis-
understanding of Jewish sayings Rabbi
Brasch is very good in his essay on the
letter Ayin (the eye) on the lex talionis,
“an eye for an eye and a tooth for a
tooth”—it was not, he says, a vengeful
law but a restrictive law: —
To a pagan world, advocating and
implementing wild revenge, here
Judaism in unmistakable terms pro-
nounced the principle of equal justice
to all Augustine, one of the early
Fathers of the Christian Church,
thus expounded the Jewish law
“One eye, not two, for an eye; one
tooth, not ten, for a tooth ; one life,
and not the whole family, for a life,
and the tooth of a poor man was
considered just as precious as that
of the rich.”
There is a chapter on the lost tribes,
after Israel was divided from Judah,
and some consideration whether the
British and the Irish are among them,
to say nothing of the Japanese, whose
temple, Ohosaki (“beloved”) was
“identical with that of King David’s
name.”
A chapter on “Quaint Jewish Tribes'*
puts the Samaritans in their place; they
might be Israelites, but never Jews,
and such a bad lot they were that “the
Good Samaritan” in the New Testa-
ment was not good because he was a
Samaritan but remarkable for being
both a Samaritan and good. Then there
are the Black Jews of Ethiopia, and
the brown Jews of Cochin, India; and
there is a chapter on professions
peculiar to Jewry—the Schnorrer, or
professional beggar, whose arrogance
is upheld by the Jewish rule that
charity is an obligation; and the
“Mezuzzah Fixer” and “Meat Salter,”
whose jobs were sinecures given them
and attested by the Jewish community
in Austria to enable a man to say he
had an occupation and so satisfy the
authorities, who otherwise would
deport him.
With other chapters on Rashi the
commentator and Maimonides the
philosopher; on the two-triangled
Shield of David; on the Menorah, the
seven-branched candlestick and its
modem successor, the Chanukah
Menora, or eight-branched candlestick;
on the Jewish flag and Naphthali Herz
Imber’s hymn of hope; 30 plates, the
Hebrew alphabet in its various modifi-
cations, a lexicon of Jewish family-
names and their derivations, and an
index.
Love in Queensland
As the title indicates, the theme of
Thea Astley’s short novel Girl With a
Monkey (Angus and Robertson) is
much the same as that of Eugene
O’Neill’s play “The Hairy Ape”: the
rich girl or the refined girl who is
embroiled in the smouldering passion
of a son of the sea or the soil. In this
case the girl is a schoolteacher in tropic
Queensland and the passionate lover
is a roadworker.
It is a simple, elementary theme.
Basically, for success, it depends on
suspense: will the son of the soil, in
spite of all his social disadvantages,
have his passion gratified; and then,
when he is cast off, as he must be, will
he turn in rage and eat the girl or not?
And secondarily, to lift it above the
realms of the simple suspense-story, as
Lawrence tried so hard to lift “Lady
Chatterley’s Lover,” it needs all the
enrichment of style, characterisation,
background and modulation of theme
the writer can give it.
Thea Astley’s handling of the theme
leaves one with rather mixed feelings.
She allows her schoolteacher to evade
for far too long the gratification of the
roadworker’s passion, so that the life
is taken out of the story: these people
are only pretending to be great lovers.
On the other hand, the other aspect of
( Continued, on page 58)


WONDER GREASE
rc
i
MEANS* ONE GREASE... ONE
Why use specialised greases when one grease
will do all jobs . . . and do them better?
Ampol Lithium-base Multi-purpose Grease
is amazingly versatile ... it resists heat, cold,
water, rust and corrosion . . . affords com-
plete protection under all service conditions.
It stays in bearings longer; keeps out dirt
and grit; means substantial savings in time
and maintenance costs. From this moment
on . . . use only one gun, one grease . • .
Ampol Multi-purpose.
Except where equipment manufacturer specifies
a free-flowing, semi-fluid grease, i.e., track
rollers on crawler tractors.
mm
NOW! One grease ... one gun
for all these farm jobs—
Farm Machinery
Complete protection for
shearing machinery,
pumps, windmills and
other stationary
equipment.
n
Farm Implements
Harvesters, combines, disc
- . .. 7
ploughs—all mobile
equipment, including
wheel tractors.
Cars and Trucks
All chassis points, springs,
shackles, water-pumps,
ri
universal joints,
wheel
#
AUSTRALIAN OWNED
ft#®*
‘
wmmm
BBnhHA'iHda
GREASE
MULTI-PURPOSE
RED


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 20, 1958
Vol. 79—No. 4097
The National Australian Newspap-er
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathans Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
THE EVATT HORRORS
T\R. EVATT’S much-heralded speech
of censure on the Government for
its Federal Budget exhibited no novel
features. It was delivered in the
customary by-rote manner which
characterises all Dr. JEvatt’s financial
speeches, suggesting that the document
has just been put into his hand and
that he is making a trial run to see
if he understands it.
In matter it was also normal. His
standpoint on Budgets apparently is
that they spring out of the void; that
the conditions which make their shape
have no relationship to conditions in
the past,' such as those which ruled in
the years of blackmarket, agitation and
disturbance before 1949, and none
whatever to world conditions.
Everything —that is, in his view—
springs from the moment, and is the
responsibility of his political opponents;
and it is all bad and can be cured by
the application, in his hands, of a few
slick Socialist remedies mostly
remedies which have been preached in
the Communist party’s official organ
and which will be praised anew by that
journal now that Dr. Evatt has given
them his backing.
The two main themes of his dis-
cussion of the Budget were that it was
“almost a declaration of political
insolvency.” and that, in the most
bountiful years Australia has ever
known, the “Government’s record is
one of continuous drift to disaster,
culminating in this hopeless, callous and
desolate Budget.... the Budget of a
tired and lazy Government, with little
care for the well-being of anything but
its own bureaucratic regime.”
No memories seem to linger in his
mind of the hectic years of Labor’s
term of office, when the Communists
ruled the key unions as a whole through
control of union elections, wffien every
local industry was half-strangled for
want of supplies, when the coalfields
were kept working at one period
through the calling-out of the military,
and the key words in normal life, and
particularly in the realm about which
Dr. Evatt is so tearfully concerned-
homes and housing —were “black-
market” and “blackout.”
Then, if the inferences of Dr. Evatt’s
speech are correct —for the ultimate
inference of it is that he and his party
are the boys to put the present condi-
tions of dreadful depression and
penury right—this must have been a
paradise, mired since by the stagnation
brought about by the horrible old men
of the Menzies regime.
ir rHE picture painted by the gentle-
x man lately from Barton would be
more convincing and intriguing if
there were anything original in it. It
would be more palatable if he and his
party did not seem to be rejoicing, or
pretending to rejoice, in the country’s
supposed ruin at the hands of their
opponents.
Fadden presented a sober Budget
in keeping with the times. He made
no election promises for the purpose of
vote-buying. He limited his conces-
sions to the extremely needy. He does
not accept the conception that indus-
tries, with full employment, should be
treated on a poor-house basis at very
first touch of financial and economic
frost.
So he has left Labor an open field
for promising, and it rejoices that it
will be able to take advantage of it—
and how!
The Budget exorcised the deadly
fear that Fadden would offer tax-
reductions, loan-expenditure on a
Canadian scale, a glittering housing-
scheme and a conditional promise
about the abolition of the pensions
means-test. Had that been his line,
what would Labor have been able to
promise?
The inventor of the term “Horror
Budget,” who predicted a depression
of the order of 1930-31 on the eve of
the greatest boom Australia has experi-
enced. is naturally not backward in
painting the horrors of Australian con-
ditions. It is fortunate, indeed, that
his reputation is world-wide, and that
figures and facts completely belie him,
since otherwise he would frighten
foreign investment-capital away for a
month of Sundays.
A land in which unemployment is
at the second-lowest rate in the world,
in which the population owns more
motor-cars per head than any in
the world save one. in which more
per head is spent on household
luxuries and amenities, in which more
own their own homes, in which more is
spent on beer and tobacco than in any
other nation, is to Dr. Evatt and his
agonised followers a place in “tempor-
ary recession.” They regard it not with
pride but as one whose sick economy
can only be cured by a drastic potion of
money borrowed from the Common:
wealth Bank “to the extent needed,” a
remedy which is not only “permissible
but essential.”
The theory seems to be that this
medicine can be provided by replacing
the existing Budget with an entirely
new Budget under which the “squander-
ing” on defence is righted by the
acquirement of modern equipment (per-
haps on the advice of Molotov), under
a Labor Government not frightened to
borrow to end the disastrous unemploy-
ment and indulge in bold planning of
housing to overcome the lag—which is
greatest in States run by Labor. It
thinks the existence of such a Govern-
ment would produce confidence in the
low-interest loan-market by ceasing to
“manipulate it.”
Thus, all will once more be well and
there will be sufficient margin left from
Commonwealth Bank credit to give
tax-cuts to primary producers to
“counteract the fall in farm income.”
higher pensions, child-endowment and
other social-service payments, plus
income-tax cuts.
TT would certainly need a new Budget
A to do all this—one which would have
to provide loan-money double the
amount allocated in the present Budget;
this in an economy in which, with
Labor in power, the doctrine of loaf
would be exploited to the full and wages
would rise like a sputnik.
Under the Evatt plan, in fact, Aus-
tralia would become a “Welfare State
paradise”: a paradise rather like New
Zealand, whose neophyte Labor Gov-
ernment in 1957 tried to apply to the
economy the kind of remedies which
Labor now offers to apply in Australia,
with the result that its glittering con-
cessions to taxpayers have been repealed
suddenly and its imports restricted to
the bone in the face of world realities.
At the same moment that it is ask-
ing for outside aid, N.Z. has produced
a Socialist plan of remedy which
revokes nearly all the concessions it
made.
This plan, in the words of F. P.
Walsh, president of the New Zealand
Federation of Labor, is calculated to
make the price-index rise, reduce the
purchasing-power of. minimum award-
wages, increase the cost-of-living,
reduce the value of savings, reflect the
tax on consumer-goods in a lower
standard of living, make token increases
in family allowances illusory through
taking them out of the rises in beer and
tobacco; also, to produce a depression
different from those in the past, in
which the features have been reduced
prices and unemployment—one in
which the Maorilanders would have to
face both increased prices and unem-
ployment.
The Evatt plan would lead ultimately
to a similar situation.


"AND THEN THE WITCH-DOCTOR. HE TOLD ME WHAT TO DO!"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Schoolgirl Remedies
The session of the United Nations
Assembly can have added little to the
pleasure of the Kremlin, though whether
it spells the end of the Middle East
crisis over Lebanon, Iraq and Jordan
remains to be seen.
For ways that are dark and tricks that
are vain, nobody since the infamous
Fouche has had anything on Moscow.
Experienced observers are likely to view
with misgiving the sudden supposed
exile of Bulganin, already demoted to a
low rung of the ladder. That with the
renewed pressure on Yugoslavia and the
strange feints at the Chinese Nationalist
islands in the Taiwan Strait off Formosa
all smell of. Kremlin-brand Red Herring.
These diversions of public attention,
coupled with a universal radio-jamming
against the reports of the U.N. Assembly
proceedings, may be just a kind of hand-
kerchief to cover-up a very Red face;
but they may not.
On the surface, Khrushchev has lost
the current round of the contest with
the Western powers for the soul of
Arabia, and some people in the region
of Washington must be regretting that
they did not play from strength at the
time of the Suez affair; for then there
might not have been anything or any-
body to raise the rumpuses of the past
few months.
Various proposals on the Middle East
have come before the U.N. Assembly,
the main one a typical offering by
President Eisenhower which sounds as
if it had been designed by a professor
from Vassar Ladies College censored
by Mr. Hammarskjold. Its contents
seem to be a milder and less meaty
version of R. G. Casey's solution offered
to the Commonwealth Parliament last
week. It contains the inevitable U.S.
scheme for splashing money around on
a “regional economic development plan
to assist and accelerate improvement of
living-standards in these Arab nations,”
plus measures to “avoid a new arms-
race spiral in the area.” The only teeth
in the idea are represented by “a United-
Nations Peace Force.”
Heaven knows how much economic
aid in the shape of oil-subsidies has gone
into some of these barren, barbarous and
unstable sultanates, and the only
economic development that seems to
have followed is in the harems and in
the provision of gold-plated Cadillacs
and Rolls-Royces for mediaeval prince-
lings.
Iraq had a long-term scheme of
economic and cultural development
second to none, financed almost entirely
over a considerable period by the U.K.
and later also by other interests. But
those who were trying to carry it out
were execrated and murdered. And the
Western countries that have since mildly
condoned the murders and diplomatically
recognised the repudiators of the
Baghdad Pact and the murderers of their
friends are now being embraced in a
comprehensive charge that they suborned
everybody whom the new Baghdad
Government still wants to put under
ground in a plot to wreck a friendly
country—Syria!
In fact, judging by the representations
now being made at a very irregular
military , court-martial in Baghdad,
obviously based on faked evidence to
prove against the Western Powers Mos-
cow’s and Nasser's charges of aggression,
the Baghdad Pact itself seems to be
regarded as a conspiracy. The whole
thing is vague and seems to have been
built up on the usual improbabilities
based on “confessions” obtained by the
means normal in Moscow and places
further South.
The Russians are at least realists in
their foreign politics. They play from
strength all the time, and even in defeat
the only solution they have for the Arab
situation is the one which will serve
their policy—that Britain and the U.S.
should get out of Lebanon and Jordan
and leave them to their fate, with nothing
between them and Nasser save the vapid
and polyglot U.N. forces of observers
and truce-supervisors.
«•—
An Australian Thunderclap
Although Australia lacks the resources
that enabled ' America and Russia to
develop earth-satellites, Britain to build
nuclear-power stations and America to
produce nuclear submarines, this country
has not been entirely idle in the new fields
of scientific knowledge. Last week
Senator Spooner announced plans for
building (for the C.5.1.R.0.) a giant radio-
telescope which will be equal to any in
the world. Australian scientists have
already earned worldwide recognition for
their work in radio-astronomy, and the
new instrument, to be built near Paekes
(N.S.W.) at a cost of around £500,000 (to
which sum the Carnegie Corporation and
the Rockefeller Foundation each con-
tributed £110,000), will give them the
opportunity greatly to extend this work.
Six years ago, at the Government
aircraft factory at Fisherman’s Bend,
Melbourne, Australian scientists and tech-
nicians produced the first Jindivik, a
radio-controlled target-plane, which has
since proved so successful that orders
have been received from Britain and
Sweden, while an American firm is nego-
tiating to produce it under licence.
Fisherman's Bend has now recorded
another triumph a radio-controlled
guided missile which Supply Minister
Townley describes as similar to the U.S.
weapon Dart and “the best of its kind
in the world.”
Known as the Malkara (abo. —“thun-
der”), .the missile weighs about 2001 b. and
is designed to operate from the ground
against tanks, landing-craft and concrete
defences. It has been tested at Woomera
and Puckapunyal—the tests were “highly
successful” —and Britain has ordered 150,
of which 30 have already been shipped.
Malkara is radio-controlled and can be
guided to its target when already in the
air.
Britain's Supply Minister Aubrey
Jones, who joined Townley in announcing
the Malkara, also revealed that a British-
designed controlled bomb was being
tested at Woomera. Without giving any
details of the weapon he said it was
the weapon . most suited to Britain's
purposes ; it was more flexible than a
ballistic missile of the intercontinental
types being developed in America.
Federal Paradox
The Federal Labor party in its present
tangle over unity-tickets must feel very
much like the man who dreamt that he
had his big-toe in his mouth and woke
to find that he had.
Rank-and-file members, plagued by the
prominence given to the levies for A.L.P.
funds made by unions run by Com-
munist leaders and by the indubitable
evidence that unity-tickets were used at
the Waterside Workers Federation elec-
tions last month, have been making it
very awkward for both the Executive
and the leadership.
At first, the front Opposition bench in
Canberra seemed to think the situation
could,be met by a"few sham raps over
the knuckles applied to N.S.W. offenders.
It was not courageous enough to con-
sider a similar move in Victoria.
The speech of Killen in the Reps, last
week,, and'the obviously concerted back-
ing for it, proved that the matter could
not be dealt with like that, especially as
Robert Hope, M.P. for Darebin and a
member of the Victorian A.L.P. Execu-
tive, came out with the almost unbeliev-
able suggestion that the “trade-union
movement does not belong to any
political party and is a separate, free non-
political body.” Yet not one member of
the party, which has always held that
the first essential of unionism should be
political (as the Constitution of the party
acknowledges), and the very womb of
Federal and other forms of political
Labor has- been the trade-union move-
ment, seemed to find anything extraordi-
nary in the statement. This though the
very objective of the Labor party as
followed today was born at an All-Aus-
tralian Trades-union Congress.
Even more remarkable was Dr. Evatt's
effort.
To hear Molotov’s pen-friend chiding
persons who associate themselves with
Communism and calling for their expul-
sion from the party was a sight for the
gods. All that was missing from the
farcical scene were the three judges of
v the Petrov Commission and Kane and
others of the D.L.P. who would have
enjoyed the fun.
At the same time, putting the Com-
munist party last on their ballot-papers,
the A.L.P. proposes to fight the elec-
tion campaign on a policy fully approved
by the Communist party, with personali-
ties like the leader and Mr. Ward
approved by that party, and largely with
funds squeezed by force out of unionists
by the Communist leaderships of big
unions, which some members of the
A.L.P. think are non-political!
Somebody in the House of Representa-
tives might ask the Leader of the Opposi-
tion at next question-time how much
further paradox and effrontery can go
in Labor politics. In the argo.t of the


psychiatrists, the members of Federal
caucus and A.L.P. Federal politics
appear to have become a bunch of
“mixed-up kids” under the strains of an
untenable situation brought about by
their leader’s faith in things Russian.
All that is now needed to make the
farce complete is for Mr. Clive Evatt to
turn-up from Moscow and ask every-
body to vote for Menzies.
On the present form of the family he
is quite capable of doing it.
Up She Goes!
[From “Collins Street”]
Since it would be impractical for Mel-
bourne’s villagers to swear to defy the
Goverhment in a planned campaign of
civil disobedience like the tax-rebels in
New Britain, all they may do is to swear
and bear the Bolte Government’s latent
raid on their pocket with the abolition
of second-class rail travel, a new one-
class rail-fare at pretty much the first-
class rate, and dearer tram-fares.
The increased charges have been
approved by the Parliamentary Liberals,
who, for some reason best known
to State Cabinet, were not asked to
approve the increased charges for elec-
tricity and gas announced about a fort-
night earlier.
Liberal’s stocks have dropped in Vic-
toria. An exceptional section is the State
public service, in which the Bolte-Rylah
Administration is remarkably popular
since it has refused departments hardly
anything in expenditure, and votes con-
tinue to expand, without a suggestion of
economies, while deficits mount.
No More Push-button
The attack on defence policy which
Labor is about to unleash as one of its
very few dogs likely to fight in the
election campaign has received no help
from the statement by Aubrey Jones,
the U.K. Minister for Supply, on the
advancement of Woomera and Maralinga
projects.
He has shown no hesitation in adver-
tising the importance of the work being
done there by Australian military scien-
tists in the development of long-range
and nuclear weapons.
In fact, he threw his British caution
aside to suggest that there was no work
of parallel quality being done anywhere
else in the world, so far as he knows.
Labor’s outlook and that of most
onlookers at the game seems to be very
confused. Mr. Chifley, when he and
members of the present Opposition were
running the country, derived their de-
fence policy from the Red-anted Federal
Labor Conference, which Chifley asked
to “tell us what you want done, so that
we can do it.”
The conference plumped, as might have
been expected from such a body, for the
emasculation of the conventional land
and sea forces, a policy which the caucus
and Ministry hastened to carry out amid
the plaudits of E. J. Ward and others of
his kind and the solemn assurances of
Mr. Chifley and Moscow that conven-
tional war was dead, that normal forces
were useless and that push-button war-
fare was the only thing that mattered.
Having virtually persuaded public
opinion that this was the correct view
and made it almost impossible before it
left office for the incoming Government
to carry out any policy which did not-
involve defending the Commonwealth
from an armchair, Labor is now ranging
up for a hurricane attack on the Menzies
Administration.
It proposes to assail it for not having
built-up efficient conventional defence of
the type which it felt was useless when
in office itself. It likes to oblige the
Communists by forgetting Woomera and
Maralinga except as warmongering activi-
ties, provocative and calculated to infect
the genes of innocent babes and sucklings
whose mothers have votes.
Mr. Jones’s statement on the subject
of what is being done in the Great Aus-
tralian Desert needs wide circulation as
an antidote to this dishonest approach.
£IOOO Play Quest
Having established itself as securely in
its handsome new theatre as it was in
its picturesque old one,- Melbourne
Little Theatre Guild recently announced
the first of a series of contests for Aus-
tralian plays in active association with
J. C. Williamson Theatres.
As the most attractive brochure
announcing the £IOOO quest points out,
the association of Australia’s longest-
established commercial theatre-organisa-
tion with the Guild in this project offers
a new and clearly defined opportunity
to all professing and intending writers
for the Australian theatre.
Prize-moneys and advance-royalties for •
the first quest total initially £1000:
first, £SOO, including £2OO for first-per-
formance options ; second, £3OO, includ-
ing £IOO for first-performance options;
and third, £2OO, including £IOO for first-
performance options. The Guild will pay
the outright prize-money of £6OO, and
Williamsons the option-rights for three
months. The first award is a guaranteed
£IOO royalty for immediate tryout per-
formance at Melbourne Little.
Radio, TV and publishing offers have
been secured already by the Guild;
although there are no qualifications im-
posed upon the type or character of play
entered, it is pointed out that, as one of
the immediate objectives is to find new
plays worth, and capable of, production,
the practicability of production will be
a factor in the judges’ decision.
Entry-forms may be obtained by appli-
cation in writing to the Little Theatre
Guild, Ltd., Box 1012 H, G.P.0., Mel-
bourne, or from any of J. C. Williamson
Theatres’ offices throughout Australia
and New Zealand, and in London and
.New York. All Australian citizens, no
matter where they live, are eligible to
enter plays.
Melbourne Little Theatre has for
years been encouraging Australian writers
to concentrate on the stage ; the success
of “The Doll” and its followers has
shown the Guild’s conviction that there
must be a big audience for Australian
plays was well founded, and now the
Little, with a bigger theatre and revenue,
is backing its judgment. The Bulletin
congratulates both the Guild and
Williamsons on their enterprise, and
wishes the quest resounding success.
Albert Namatjira
The tragedy which occurred at the
Namatjira camp in Central Australia and
the coroner’s admonition of the aboriginal
artist point the difficulty of the problem
of granting citizenship rights to
aborigines. On the surface it would
seem that if any black man in Australia
was worthy of full citizenship it was
Albert Namatjira.
Mission-educated, intelligent and an
artist whose paintings brought him an
income of several-thousand pounds a
year, he displayed, on his infrequent
visits to the capitals, what seemed a quiet
and natural dignity. Yet at the conclu-
sion -of the inquest on an aboriginal
woman found battered to death after she,
her husband (who has been charged with
murder) and various friends and relatives
of the artist had been drinking liquor
bought by Namatjira, the magistrate told
him that his action had probably con-
tributed to the death of the woman.
Addressing Namatjira, he said:
I have brought you here to express my
concern at the drunken orgies going on in
the vicinity of your camp.
I cannot stop you from drinking. That
is your right. But you are the head of
the Namatjira family and your friends take
notice of what you say. I ask you not to
take alcohol to your camp .... You are
liable to a sentence of six months’ imprison-
ment for doing that. If you must drink,
then drink elsewhere and not in the com-
pany of your friends and family who are
wards.
Namatjira agreed to heed the warning.
. For some time before the killing there
had been reports of heavy drinking-
parties at Namatjira’s camp, of the
artist’s own increasing addiction to liquor ;
of his alleged ill-treatment of his wife ;
of the prodigality of his family and
friends in helping him to dissipate his
savings.
Namatjira is not the first artist to fall
a victim to the killing-by-kindness tech-
nique. It has happened to white men
as well as to black. But in his case the
tragedy is highlighted by his color and by
the fact that he has been used as a symbol
of what the Australian aborigine can
rise to.
His deed of citizenship gave him white-
man privileges without relieving him of
black-man responsibilities—in particular,
the responsibility to share-and-share-
alike. While deploring the outcome of
one phase of it one must admire the
spirit which impels a man to share his
new-found wealth with his friends. At
the same time the present Namatjira way
of life can have only one end —the utter
degradation of a fine man.
If he is allowed to continue his present
course he will become a penniless charge
on the State as soon as his creative powers
decline. The kindest thing that could be
done for him now would be to relieve
him of the citizenship which has brought
him heavier burdens than he should be
asked to carry.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
/'Af the king-size cult I am becoming a
little weary. It didn’t end in smoke.
I’ve been invited to wear “king-size”
socks, which monarchical strain has
apparently been specially bred to crawl
further up the shanks than the
old hoi-polloi sort. Royal dimensions
are proudly claimed for the colossus that
gleams in a motor-showroom window.
My pooch should —but somehow doesn’t
—register canine ecstasy as he is grinding
his molars on his “king-size” biscuit. If
one has a. palatial menage one can buy
a “king-size” lounge-suite. Our suburb’s
fruitologist now vends his “king-size”
bananas —at so much a pound, of course.
I’m- beginning to suspect the trouble in
Jordan dwes much less to the machina-
tions of Khrushchev and Nasser than to
the Jordanian people’s demanding that
their pint-calibre Hussein be diced in
favor of a king-size King.—“ Bo.”
❖ ❖ ***
“P.0.M.C.”: I see that London’s up-
and-coming “abstract* expressionist”
artist has abandoned the technique of
cycling and/or puddling with his feet
over wet canvases and now produces
“action pictures” by covering hard board
with bitumen, kerosene and asphalt, _ and
setting the lot alight. Paintings thus
conceived he prices at 50 and 100 guineas,
which is pretty poor pay for their appa-
rent value to newspapers.
+}«■
“A.G.P.”: Met a cheerful architect
praising his mother-in-law living with his
family. “Good to look at,” he said.
“Never butts-in ; never rams her ideas
down the kids’ throats. Has her own
income. She is, indeed, the ideal, built-in
baby-sitter.”
“Quicky”: Melbourne clubs now total
many hundreds and are still increasing.
They represent every profession, nation-
ality, creed, sport and service ; as, for
instance, the'Soroptimist Club of Mel-
bourne (for optimistic business-women?.),
the Proportional Representation Society,
and the St. Kilda Dustmen’s Club (for
garbage-collectors in that seaside suburb).
❖ ❖ *
“Reims”: Legalising of starting-price
betting in W.A. has revealed an amazing
fact—-you can’t legislate people into
gambling. A proposal to erect a betting-
shop in Applecross, a south-of-the-river
suburb, was strenuously opposed by 4he
residents. They continued fighting ; the
Government went doggedly ahead with
the building, and the-shop was registered
in August, 1956. It’s had two proprietors
since then —one’s now a salesman;
the other, working for a city bookmaker,
didn’t care to comment on his experiences
at Applecross. Apparently if a com-
munity doesn't want to bet the Govern-
ment can't make it.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Lillydale”: When gold was just
spending-money (B. 30/7/’5B) gentlemen
even in oil-lit trams avoided errors by
having, in the offside vest-pocket hooked
.to the watchchain, a gold case that
magazined, with nice spring-loading, five
fiddleys and 10 half-quids. They got
there by courtesy of a paying teller who
accepted * the unhooked sovereign-case
together with the £lO cheque. The
business was concluded with an inquiry
for Mrs. Teller’s health and the raising
of the client’s belltopper.
♦jt *2*
“Dorian”: I was intrigued to note, in
a newspaper-report about a bride who
slept-in and missed her wedding, that the
hapless church-organist had “exhausted
his repertoire.” Surely no self-respecting
organist should be without a stack or
two of popular music for these occa-
sions! And if he got through the lot
(including “The Pub With No Beer” and
.“The Witch-doctor”) what could be more
apposite than a series of improvised
variations on, say, “1 Went to Your
Wedding”?
“Sure”: Queensland’s Mt. Isa, “The
Municipal Journal” records, consumes
more beer than petrol; but, then, as the
shire-president is quick to point out, beer
tastes a lot better than petrol.
♦*+ ♦>
“Corio”: To proposals now being
investigated for tunnels to join Alaska
and Siberia and Europe and the U.K.
has been added the tunnel under the
Yarra at Williamstown (Vic.). N. S.
Wales lags behind ; a proposal to run a
tunnel under Sydney Harbor is being
hekl-up while the possibility is being in-
vestigated of transferring to the Harbor
the already existing tunnel under College
Street between HydeTark and St. Mary’s
Cathedral.
“ Don't be a dill! If I drive it home tonight I lose me place fo'r the mornin'!"
PLASTICS
“The Australian plastics industry would
probably double in capacity within the next
five years, said the Minister for Trade, Mr. J.
McEwen.”
/ don’t desire to be sarcastic.
But cannot wax enthusiastic
About the growing use of plastic.
The human being, so elastic,
Varied and iconoclastic,
Orgiastic and gymnastic
(/ fear Tin growing periphrastic),
Is being moulded like a spastic
In raw materials lie mastic-
Ated when things weren't so drastic —•
The poor, fantastic, silly bastic ! (
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


Back in the days of cutthroat razors,
pomades, perfumed waters and
similar adjuncts to a gentleman’s toilet,
no dressing-case was complete without
a pot of bear’s grease. In an old-estab-
lished pharmacy in Queenseliffe (Vic.)
I came across a reminder of those far-
off days. It is a neat little china jar,
about 3in. in diameter, the lid bearing
the picture of a bear, and the inscrip-
tion: “Russian Bear’s Grease from
the Bears in their Native Climate.” The
animal holds in its mouth a flowing
ribbon announcing the maker’s name:
“Price and Company —genuine—Mont-
pelier House, 28, Lombard Street.” I’ve
always had an idea that Lombard Street
was the street of the moneylenders ; per-
haps the goldsmiths and bankers of old
were given to much greasing of scalps
with bear’s fat —however, the contents
of that particular jar were most likely
used by some dashing moustachioed
officer of the old Victorian Artillery
Regiment from the Queenseliffe fort. —■
“Ceg.”
*** +*♦
“D.W.”: Buying a N.S.W. Lottery
ticket after having no luck for some
years, 1 offered a friend 100 to 1 (in
shillings) that my ticket wouldn’t be a
winning number. He accepted the bet,
and backed a winner, as my ticket was
worth a £lO prize. After paying myf
wager I showed a profit of £4 14s. 6d.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sunray”: Sounds to me as if “Bix”
has met with an offspring of an old war-
time greeting (B. 6/8/’5B). It was quite
a common practice (in Melbourne, any-
way) for someone to answer the phone
thus: “Hello, is that you, Blank? Dash
here. How are you? You look well,
have you been ill?” And general conver-
sation continued from that point.
❖ *l* ❖
“Lorna Doone”: In our emporium
those employees who wish to leave are
asked to state the reason on the approved
form —and many a glib answer camou-
flages the real cause. But one of my
young ladies believes in nothing but the
truth; she put, baldly: “I hate this
place!”
♦> +s»
“Wusslean”: Melbourne City Council
is looking into an allegedly silent, a
plastic, dustbin, such, no doubt, as was
imagined by Sir Thomas Browne:
“sepulchral pitchers that have no joyful
voices.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Doynest”: From August 7 the care-
less Briton who dropped litter could be
fined anything up to £lO, but only if the
litter was “litter as defined in the [Litter]
Act —i.e., “anything dropped or thrown
in, into or from any place in the open
air to which the public have access with-
out payment.” More precise definition
of what constitutes litter is left to the
decision of local authorities, which means
in practice that a tram-ticket may be litter
in one area but not in another. Wrangles
“Quick! Take that antenna off —here comes a customer !”
loom over “in the open air”: the
Ministry for Housing and Local Govern-
ment declares that a bus-shelter, open
on one side only, is in the open air.
♦♦♦
“Wallboard”: From a report which
has just found its way to my desk:
“Inquiries show that Mrs. has 11
children. She is living on a pension, as
her husband is incapacitated. It was not
possible, however, to ascertain the likely
duration or cause of his disability.”
+x+ ♦♦♦
“Sevenelms” : That atomic-age fluores-
cent sock popular with teenagers was
developed last year at Leicester for
cyclists after an unusually dull English
winter and poor visibility had produced
a startling crop of motorcar-bicycle
accidents. The backroom boys of the
knitting-mills came up with this product
whose gaudiness may not be Col. Blimp’s
idea of gents’ half-hose but whose
reflected radiance in headlight-beams can
be a real lifesaver.
* ♦> »:<
“Kate”: Plonk right at a dangerous
bend on a Victorian road it stands: a
tow-truck advertisement, complete with
telephone-number and directions to the
nearest telephone.
♦!« ♦>
“V.M.”: It’s a far cry from the Koran
to a Westralian bank-return, but
Mohammed’s down on usury caused his
Afghan followers who handled camel-
teams in the W.A. outback half-a-century
ago to decline interest on their savings-
bank deposits. The old W.A. Savings
Bank had a column in its agency-returns
headed: “Interest refused by Moham-
medans.”
*X*
“Bicky”: They are preparing to change
Melbourne telephone-numbers from two-
letter, four-figure combinations to six
figures. P.M.G. officials say the six-
figure call-sign will be easier to remem-
ber, yet it is not so long ago that motor
registration-plates were changed from the
all-figure combination to the three-letter,
three-figure set-up because it was con-
sidered that six figures were unwieldy
and hard to memorise.
♦>
“Noo Zee”: The tonic-dealing corners
at a street-intersection in Clifton Hill,
Victoria (B. 16/7/’5B) bring me to the
intersection of Ha'rdy and Collingwood
streets in Nelson, New Zealand. At two
of the corners there are pubs, the third
has a petrol-station, and on the fourth
a Holy Rollers Hall with its huge caption :
“Our Only Hope Jesus.” The local lads
refer to it as “Four-spirits corner.”
♦* 4 <£♦ +J+
“Tidak Makan”: The N.S.W. Govern-
ment Railways seem to offer little attrac-
tion to their own employees, judging by
the number of cars parked near the
Eveleigh and Chullora Workshops. At
least four of the top railway “brass” are
collected from their homes in chauffeur-
driven cars and taken home again at night


by the same means. But it is even more
impressive, when a tram is waiting at
a mid-run depot, to see a driver parking
his car and then moving with stately
dignity to his* shift in the front of the
tram.
“Pip Tok”: Westralian Police Commis-
sioner’s closure of a line of bawdy-
houses which had been doing business
in Perth within sneezing-distance of
police-headquarters for donkey’s years
caused editorial comment, letters to
papers, and was the talk of the town.
At the height of the furore, listeners
chuckled when they heard, in the Perth
A.B.C.’s “Popular Memories” session, the
old song, “Where Does Father Go When
He Goes Out?”
♦♦♦
“Ceg”: As to economy in cooking (B.
30/7/’5B), on one of his Australian trips
“Then madam Was not satisfied with the frock-styling and fit ?”
Oscar Asche was much wrapped-up in
a tireless cooker he had invented. It
transpired that Oscar, in addition to being
a great actor and inventor, was no mean
chef. A Melbourne evening paper
arranged for him to publish a series of
recipes of tasty yet economical dishes.
The maestro began with soup, something
on these lines: “Take a hen-lobster, half-
a-pint of port wine, six eggs, pint of
cream” —and several other ingredients.
“This,” he said, “will make a good and
economical soup for four persons.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Wusslean”: A couple of years ago
you had to book several nights in advance
to be sure of a good seat at our (Vic.)
town picture-theatre, even on week-nights.
The district’s population has increased
by thousands, but patronage has so
declined that screenings are restricted to
three nights a week instead of six.. Be-
cause of TV, they say. Saturday
matinees continue, but it’s my bet that
our children will tell their offspring of
the good old days when kids assembled
to cheer their film heroes in a riotous,
peanut-chewing mob at the “Saturdee-
afternoon flicks.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sister Ellell”: The Returned Sisters’
annual dinner in Adelaide was a great
success as usual. Among the members
who sat at my table was one of the most
amusing in the A.1.F., now matron of
a busy country hospital, with a migrant
chef, an excellent cook who hits the
plonk on Saturday night. “Sunday being
his day off,” she said, “I dose him with
one ounce of mist aspirin and a nobbier
of brandy, and he’s quite happy for the
rest of the week. As I left for this re-
union he called: ‘I be waiting for you,
Matron ; with the medsin and the
brandy !’ ”
*
“Beam”: The patient in the corner had
been in a coma for three days, was being
fed glucose through a vein, and was a
poor risk for an insurance-policy on his
life. When he spoke, early one morning,
the junior nurse dropped a tray, spun
round and said, “Pop, are you all right?”
“Yes, thank you,” said Pop, whereat the
startled junior said, “Bless your sweet
heart!” and fled to get a senior in case
she was dreaming.
“Sunray”: An old cottage, hiding
behind a very high new fence in Missen-
den Road (Sydney) is overshadowed by
bigger buildings, and but for the fence
you might almost miss it. But there is
a rightness about it all, because the name
of the cottage, entwined with flourishes
on the glass panel above the door and
just visible, is “Violet.”
*l* »>
“E.G.”: Passing their condemned
cottage a few months ago I was surprised
to see a TV-antenna adorning the roof.
Said the lady of the house: “We'll have
to move to a Commission house where
the rents are much higher, so we thought
we might as well start to pay for a TV
while we’re here.”
♦♦♦ ❖ *X*
“Ardoyne”: Guest-speaker at our
literary club, a member of the police-
force, took pains to impress us with the
volume and variety of crimes committed
in his area, one of Melbourne’s industrial
suburbs. At question-time he was asked :
“Are more crimes committed in your area
than anywhere else in Melbourne?”
“No,” he replied, “B ” (another
industrial suburb) “beat us on numbers
last year. But I’ll say this for our
district,” he added proudly ; “more
crimes of violence are committed there
than anywhere else in the State.”
QUERULOUS QUERIES
Why must it always happen thus:
That some bag of a man-repeller
Will sit beside you in the bus,
The beauty next the other feller?
And why is it a snap-brim will
Look super on the hatter’s model,
And yet it makes you look a dill
When it is parked upon your noddle ?
Explain me this: Why should it be
That when rare, genuine bargain
chances,
That’s just the time, by irony,
You’ye hit a low in your finances ?
And why, when for a while you’ve read,
Your book should act as ancesthetic,
Yet when you’ve tottered off to bed
Your mind then becomes energetic ?
Why must those film-stars who are so
Keen on dramatic roles portraying,
Have brains in inverse ratio
To outsize bosoms they’re displaying ?
Yes-men, executives complain,
Comprise the great and growing
majority,
Why then their whinge as they maintain
Yes-girls today are in the minority ?
Why is it, when you meet a phiz.
First time for years, while you’ll be
stalling
For time to nut-out who he is,
Your name straightway he’ll be
recalling ?
And here, for the contemplative,
Is one that’s got my thinker dented:
On what did carpet-beetles live
Before the carpet was invented ?
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


XX/TmiN the next few years French texf-
books for English schools will need
to be revised to include all the distorted
English words being driven into the
French language.
In a Paris cafe I asked for some cakes,
gateaux. After a minute’s puzzling, the
waiter said, “Ah, kecks!” So we had
some kecks. At the hotel, instead of
un oeuf poche (a poached egg) I had
un poshek. My wife had a lot of trouble
explaining that she wanted des pommes
puree, but the waiter finally divined
that she wanted soom mash powtarts.
He was using words that are now part
of the French language, to the great
dismay and anger of the French Academy,
which is campaigning against what it
calls anglomania.
The French now demand le sport,
meaning le football, le racing and le'
boxe. They like un champion, and they
go mad with delight when there is un
knockoute. They refer to le rugby man
and le tennisman, and no doubt when
the occasion arises they will refer to
le cricketman.
Newspaper advertisements for the big
Paris stores refer to les gadgets. There
is also la shavecream, instead of the
purist la creme a raser. I wonder why
shaving-cream is feminine gender?
The Paris housewife does le shopping
and will probably dine at the snack bar.
As we stole “cafe” and “restaurant”
from French, the French are probably
entitled to “snack bar.”
At night a gentleman may take a lady
to le music hall to see a new starlette
and will be especially pleased if she has
du sex-appeal. This is now an accepted
French word, and few young people
know the French-language equivalent.
The word “sexy” glares out in neon-lights
from every striptease joint in Paris.
Other words commonly used by the
average Frenchman, even in a conversa-
tion with another Frenchman, include:
wine (vin) ; tip ( pourboire ); trunk
(malle) ; milk (lait); beefsteak (bifsteck).
The intellectuals are powerless against
the linguistic pressures of the masses.
Strolling on the boulevardes, listening to
people talking, looking at the posters and
shop-window advertisements, all seems
lost for French, and you begin to think
that eventually, in learning English,
school-children will also be learning
French.
Then quite unexpectedly one comes
upon an example of glorious philological
defiance and independence like the film
“Guys and Dolls.” It is billed in Paris
as “Blanches Colombes et Vilains
Messieurs’ —or, translated, “White Doves
and Naughty Gentlemen.”
Vive la France!
John Laffin.
»> *!♦
“Ceg”: From the windows of my flat
in the Melbourne equivalent of King's
Cross I have been accustomed in past
years to watch the approach of spring
in the blossoming of a large almond-
tree, followed, a couple of months later,
by the herald of summer—a large and
very old pear-tree. Now the old garden
Is no more. A large block of very
modern flats stands in its stead, about
90 per cent, plate-glass, affording full
visibility of all that goes on inside. So
I can still mark the change of seasons,
largely by the clothing donned every
morning by the occupants, but confess
I was tricked on a recent very frosty
morning by a gentleman wearing nothing
but very abbreviated leopard-skin briefs
(is that the word?) nonchalantly brushing
his shoes. Does that mean that summer
is to be early this year?
“Tell the girls at the office that marriage is beaut, and
Bill's shaping-up real Well."
“Traveller”: In a tram: “When she
tells me I’m good to her I know she’s
pretty damn’ sick. But when she finds
fault all the time 1 know she’s on the
up-an’-up.”
♦J* *l* ❖
“D.M.”: Rubbing laboriously executed
drawings off the blackboard has a curious
fascination for children. 1 sweated for
days putting a frieze of Captain Cook
with all the trimmings along the top of
the board for my Fifth Grade. On
Friday afternoon everything went
wrong. A long crocodile of kids was
waiting to be taken to a neighboring
sports-oval ; my two male colleagues
pawed the ground with impatience, while
I dealt with the usual crop of bench-
warmers “not allowed to play sport to-
day.” As I rushed out Nola and Jean
babbled something at me of which I
caught the words, “tidy . . . room . . .
clean.” “Yes, yes,” I said absently as
the croc, got under way. McDuff’s
lament for all his pretty chickens and
their dam was no less poignant than
mine when I returned. The room was
beautifully clean, certainly, but so was
the board—Captain Cook, all my gum-
trees, the three-masted ship and the two
blacks wiped-off clean as a whistle!
*i* ♦>
“J.L.”: Do you shop in the market?
I used to when I was first married, but
George made me give it up. He said
it was bad for my arteries. But 1 still
like to come in and stroll around. How
beautiful it all looks: piles of shining
apples and oranges,
big fat bananas,
peaches and plums
like velvet! 1 always
hope that some day
I’ll be able to buy
them, but just when
I think the man
behind the counter
must start selling
those beauties, he
yells, “Another case
here, Ted,” or “Fill
'er up there,
Charlie,” and Ted
or Charlie dumps
another heap of
goods out of sight
behind my choice,
and into the bags
they go. George
says you can de-
mand the ones you
see; but of course
George doesn't do
the marketing. If I
were about 6ft. 2in.
with a gimlet eye, a
face like granite and
the voice of a ser-
geant-major, I guess
I'd be game to try.
Five - feet - nothing
puts you at a dis-
advantage. Besides,
I have a shrewd
suspicion that those
beauties are made of
wax, and every
"weekend are packed in cottonwool and
stored carefully away till Tuesday,
+♦♦ ♦♦♦
.. Driftsanc r. Ronald is regarded as the
town’s astutest businessman, hard but
fair, ever alert to coin a bargain. An
energetic worker for charitable organisa-
tions, he was among the first to offer
for the Red Cross blood-transfusion
service. Blit the bleeding-process could
only drain away a few trickles of his
blood, and evoked the wry comment
from his doctor, “I suppose we couldn’t
expect you to give anything for nothing.”
* * *
“W.G.L.”: It was a warm day in the
operating-theatre, and the portly surgeon
felt the heat so much that a young nurse
had been detailed to the wiping of his
brow. Being engaged on other duties
she was not there when her presence
was required, and the theatre-sister called
her in a loud whisper: “Nurse; mop,
mop!” Always ready to obey orders, the
young nurse dashed outside to return
with a mop, and duly presented it at the
surgeon’s side.


POLITICAL POINTS
It isn’t clear whether the Doc., in his
Budget speech, was saying “Don’t be so
miserly, you spendthrifts,” or “Don’t be
so extravagant, you pack of misers.”
0 s
Failure of the first U.S. attempt to
shoot the moon was disappointing, but
hardly unexpected. The scientists con-
ducting the enterprise had not held-out
any great hopes, and to have succeeded
first-time-up in an operation of such
magnitude would have been truly amaz-
ing. It is almost certain that the Russians
have also had one or more failures with
moon-rockets, but the Kremlin doesn’t
admit its misses. The Cape Canaveral
team intends to try again next month. It
may be that it will have to try many
times before all the difficulties are over-
come, but few people now doubt that
success is within reach.
0 0
One to Cahill! Chairman of Ment-
more Pen Co., about to open a factory
in Sydney, gave Melbourne pressmen his
reason for preferring N.S.W. to Vic-
toria as a site for his plant: “Sydney
life gives an impression of a fast tempo.
I’m afraid Melbourne doesn’t.” Whether
this meant that Sydney, would make pens
more quickly, wear them out more
quickly or lose ’em more quickly he
didn't say.
0 O
Sign of the times? After several years
of addressing their radio ads. to would-
be sellers, Sydney car-auction yards have
switched their attention to the buyers.
It’s no longer “Bring your car along to
Bloggs’s salerooms and get top price.”
Instead it’s “Come to Bloggs’s salerooms
and get a late-model car at the most
reasonable price in town.”
0 0
Family motto of the Duke of Bedford,
on whose property a world convention
of nudists is being held, is “Che sara
sara.”
0 0
New South Wales Parliament opens to-
day for the final session of the 38th Par-
liament. Controversial bills expected to
come up include equal-pay and three-
weeks’ annual leave, both of them
wished-on Cahill by the A.L.P. con-
ference. The Budget will not be pre-
sented until next month.
N.S.W. Opposition-leader Morton may
be expected to return to the attack in
the matter of Metropolitan Cement’s huge
overdraft with the N.S.W. Rural Bank
and its preferred treatment in interest-
rates.
• •
“P.L.”: When Labor came into power
in New Zealand at the end of last year
it was expected that heads would fall,
but it was debatable whether that of
Sir Leslie Munro, Ambassador to the
United States, would be among them.
His status as president of the U.N.
General Assembly and wide appreciation
of his work as a diplomat would, it was
thought, outweigh political partisanship.
They haven’t! On September 16, when
Sir Leslie has fulfilled his immediate
obligations as president of the Assembly
—out he goes.
0 0
Thomas Charles Drake-Brockman has
been chosen by the Westralian Parliament
to fill the Senate vacancy caused by the
death of Senator Seward. He had already
been selected as first man in the Country-
party Senate team for W.A. He now
takes his seat immediately, but, like Sena-
tor Ormonde (N.S.W.), will have to face
the electors at the general election to-
wards the end of this year.
0 0
The N. S. Wales and Queensland Wool-
buyers’ Association has withdrawn its
offer to buy at Goulburn for another
year; it will boycott Goulburn in the
current season. Woolgrowers, however,
still intend to offer wool in Goulburn.
A new company, Wool Export (Goul-
burn), Ltd., has been floated, and the
secretary of the Goulburn Wool Protest
Delegation says his organisation has been
given promise of support from growers.
The compromise offer of the Woolbuyers’
Association, he says, was no compromise
at all —it was merely an offer to hold its
hand “provided the industry committed
suicide in twelve months.”
0 0
Mr. Hammarskjold runs true to form.
His summary of the Middle East position
on August 8 was right up Moscow’s
alley:
The developments [in which U.N. nations
are interested] .... ultimately .... must
depend on, and will be effectively shaped
by, actions of the member-nations in the
region. The Arab nations already have
co-operated within the Arab League, and
they all have subscribed to the principles
of mutual respect for each other’s terri-
tories, integrity and sovereignty ; of non-
aggression ; of non-interference in each
other’s internal affairs ; and of equal and
mutual benefit. Were the States con-
cerned in their present troubled situation
jointly to re-affirm their adherence to such
principles, that step would be a considerable
assistance to the general efforts in which
the U.N. is engaged.
The U.N. Secretariat apparently still
believes that the Arab League is a sort
of girls’-school debating-society and that
the assurances of Nasser are worth the
paper they are written on. And that
suits both Moscow and Nasser.
“They say they’re here to protect us. But who’s to protect our wives?”


After Killen, M.H.R., had shown the
Reps, a photostat copy of a Labor-
Communist unity-ticket for a Brisbane
W.W.F. election and Evatt had explained
that the A.L.P. frowned on unity-tickets,
Bill Wentworth said that the Doc.’s
attitude on the subject was that of “the
piano-player in a house of ill-fame who
didn’t know what was going on upstairs.”
• ®
Cahill made an extraordinary confes-
sion in the course of his comments on
horse-racing in America, where he found
the atmosphere on courses “dead and
colorless” and lacking in glamor, due
to the absence of bookmakers. He said
that this was merely an immediate
impression. “I made no official examina-
tion of race conditions abroad.” Why
didn’t he? Under his Government racing
and gambling have become one of the
most important industries in N. S. Wales
—his Treasury draws a large proportion
of its income from that source. It was
almost his bounden duty to make an
official survey of the industry in America.
If caucus takes its responsibilities to the
State seriously, it will send Joe back to
America forthwith to remedy the
omission.
• ©
It’s on again. The U.K. Foreign Secre-
tary, Selwyn Lloyd, has warned the
youth of the Commonwealth to boycott
the so-called “Youth Festivals” which
the Communists adroitly stage-manage
to exploit young people for propaganda
purposes. The seventh such festival is
to be held in Vienna next year. It has
already been denounced by the Austrian
Youth Federation. At question-time on
Wednesday Cleaver, M.H.R. (Swan),
mentioned the matter. Casey replied
that his earlier warnings against being
misled by such “festivals” still held good.
• •
Because two-dozen shops in Newcastle
are offering bread at Is. a loaf (over the
counter) instead of the maximum price
of Is. 4|d. the Breadcarters’ Union is
expressing concern lest the public should
be having poor-quality bread foisted on
it ; the implication is that good-quality
bread couldn’t be sold at a bob. A
spokesman for the stores says it can, and
that the difference in price represents the
cost of delivery.
The union’s real fear is that some of
its members may lose their jobs if the
habit spreads. Its concern is quite under-
standable, but if a housewife is prepared
to do her own carting there doesn’t seem
to be any valid reason for making her
pay cartage. In other words, the bread-
carters may get as crusty as they please,
but they’ll find their cake’s dough.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Sticking his neck out
a trifle, Interior Minister Fairhall has
announced that he is considering “more
appropriate names” for Canberra’s
administration buildings. These include
the East Block and the West Block.
Some of the public servants who occupy
desks in them have muttered unofficial
suggestions under their breath, and there
have been digs about East Blockheads
and West Blockheads. One office has
organised a sweepstake with a list of
suggestions —some of which would be
publishable.
e •
Vic Johnson, M.H.R. for Kalgoorlie,
who bitterly criticised the Federal leader-
ship of Dr. Evatt last year, attacked Clyde
Cameron, Labor member for Hindmarsh
(S.A.), in the Reps, for “having made
an unjustified attack in Parliament on
the Australian Workers’ Union,”
Johnson said:
I feel that if there is one man in this
Parliament who is not entitled to be
critical of the A.W.U. it is Mr. Cameron.
1 was disgusted when he took, the oppor-
tunity of discussing the administration of
this great union under the cloak of Parlia-
mentary privilege. He had b'een succored
and cared for by the A.W.U., which made
it possible for him to get to the elevated
position he is in today.
The reference was to Cameron’s
criticism of Tom Dougherty, Federal
secretary of the A.W.U.
Saying that he was probably speaking
for the last time in Parliament—he will
not be a candidate at the next election
—Johnson referred to “the inspired
leadership of those two great men, Curtin
and Chifley,” but said that in recent years
he had been very unhappy because of
events which had been a great stress on
his mind and on his feelings in Parlia-
ment.
He did not enlarge on this, but to
none of his colleagues or opponents did
it need enlarging upon.
« &
Goods to the value of £356 million
were sold on hire-purchase in 1957-58,
compared with £293 million in 1956-57.
The amount outstanding on h.-p. agree-
ments at the end of June was £293
million, an increase of £5B million during
the year. Motor-vehicles accounted for
two-thirds of the total.
• •
Distinguished Australian scientist Dr.
P. C. Thonemann, who has had so much
to do with the development of con-
trolled thermo-nuclear reactions (which
may eventually use seawater as fuel), will
give details of the work to the Geneva
conference on peaceful uses of atomic
energy next month. He’ll also read a
separate paper on the design and per-
formance of Zeta, which he largely
helped to create and which has placed
Britain in the forefront of the atoms-
for-peace race.
e •
“G. 8.”: Writing in Sydney “Truth,”
Jack Lang strongly commends Sir Isaac
Isaacs, Governor-General of Australia in
1930, for supporting the Scullin Govern-
ment and says at no stage did Sir Isaac
contemplate dismissing his advisers, as
the N. S. Wales Governor, Sir Philip
Game, dismissed Lang. The irony of this
blowing-off of steam lies in the fact that
there are substantial grounds for believ-
ing that it was Isaacs, with his knowledge
of Constitutional law, who tipped-off
Game when to dismiss Lang.
© ©
Labor is courting the Country party
(and says so) in the Vic. Legislative
Council, where they have a combined
one-vote majority over the Liberals, to
join in a vital vote against the Govern-
ment. Labor’s aim is to get an Assembly
election, and this can be achieved only
by an adverse vote on Supply.
The manoeuvre has succeeded twice in
recent years: in 1947 against the Cain
Government (at the time of the bank-
nationalisation legislation in Canberra);
and in 1952, when the McDonald
Ministry went out and Cain came in.
Labor reasoning is that the Bolte Govern-
ment is now unpopular and would lose
many seats at an Assembly election.
Wooing the Cockies is Labor’s chief
hurdle. Country fares and freights have
not risen. Country-railway users must
regard the Government benevolently, for
the present, at least.
e •
Leonard Warner, who nominated for
two wards of Melbourne City Council
after pondering whether he should con-
test the lot (B ? 6/ 8 / ’5B), has now with-
drawn from Gipps and will contest only
Hoddle —against W. H. Luxton. Direc-
tion is the better part of valor.
a •
Official quarters in Sydney don’t seem
able to make-up their minds whether or
not the Harbor needs another crossing.
Latest one to say it does is Traffic Superin-
tendent Chaseling. He says that experts
are agreed that even with its extra lane-
ways the Harbor Bridge will have reached
saturation-point by 1963. He wants
either a tunnel or a new bridge with at
least the capacity of the present one. It
needs to be west of the Harbor Bridge,
otherwise it will only increase congestion
in the city.
This would seem to be a good moment
for D. R. Carter to send his plan for
prefabricated tunnels along to the Premier
again.
• •
Collings-Power, the young Sydney real-
estate operator who is attempting to get
finance to build £ 10-million-worth of
flats at Jolimont, Melbourne, having
already got Government encouragement,
is back in Melbourne at arm’s length
with the local press. To inquiries he
says, “No comment”; and the press
replies by calling him “The Man Who
Says He is Negotiating.”
• •
Productivity figures compiled by the
Victorian Institute of Public Affairs,
based on United Nations statistics and
reduced to the base Australia: 100.
United States, 197; Canada, 138;
Switzerland, 106 ; New Zealand, 105 ;
Sweden, 100; United Kingdom, 82;
France, 78 ; West Germany, 54;
Argentina, 48 ; Brazil, 24 ; Japan, 20 ;
Egypt, 13 ; India, 6.


PERSONAL ITEMS
First Australian appointed a British
“works” driver for two European inter-
national motor-rallies, David McKay
will be driving a Sunbeam Rapier saloon
in the Liege-Rome-Liege Rally and a
Triumph TR3 in the Tour de France.
Both are “works entries” —specially pre-
pared cars entered by the factory for use
by specially selected drivers.
• •
President of the United Graziers’
Association of Queensland, and now
elected chairman of the Australian Wool
Bureau in succession to T. G. Carter,
W. A. Gunn, of Goondiwindi (Q.), has
been a member of the bureau since 1951.
He was awarded the C.M.G. in 1955 for
services to Australian primary industry.
• •
The musical quintet named after its
founder and leader, Horrie Dargie, rates
top billing in the best of vaudevillian
company—as in the current Sydney Tiv.
show, “Funfiesta.” Its origin goes back
a decade, when Dargie and another
member of the old Stan Bourne orchestra,
Vern Moore, decided that a singing
quartet, with some clowning on the side,
would pep things up. This idea developed
into a group of five singer-musicians,
getting their first flutter on the Tiv. cir-
cuit in “Tourist Trade.” Then, six years
ago, the quintet made for Colombo, and
after a successful season there they did
the Moss Empire Circuit all over the
British Isles for a year. They had
arrived. Since then they have appeared
at London Coliseum with Gracie Fields,
on the 8.8.C.’s Cicely Courtneidge Show
MUSICAL COMICS
with John Mills, broadcasts with Winifred
Atwell and a host of other top-rankers.
Stricken by polio in England, Dargie
was out of the act for nine months, but
directed it from his bed. He fought
back and beat the disease —so well that
no layman could tell he had ever had it.
His brother Bill is the seven-times-
winner of the Archibald Prize for
portraiture.
• •
Joining Goodyear Tyres in Chicago in
1915, H. C. Steiner retires as managing-
director of the Australian company. L. V.
Winslow succeeds him. Steiner held
assignments for the co. in Far East
countries before he first came here 28
years ago. In War I he was with the
U.S. Naval Air Force.
• •
After four months “on the road” for
the Arts Council of Australia, Sydney-
born baritone Victor Carell and his
American wife, prima ballerina Beth
Dean, are back in Sydney with their
fingers crossed about book-sales, not
box-office. Their homecoming coincided
with the release of their second jointly-
written book, Softly Wild Drums, which
deals with New Guinea native dances
and follows their study of aboriginal
dancing, Dust for the Dancers. If this
book succeeds they’ll go straight to work
on a similar one covering Maori dancing.
So it looks as if the Carell-Dean team
may be doubling-up their international
stage-reputation with full recognition as
specialist writers on ethnological dances.
• •
Robert Watson Hewett, of Comdale,
Lismore (N.S.W.), newly enrolled mem-
ber of the N.S.W. branch of the Aus-
tralian Jersey Herd Society, is surely the
youngest ever. Aged 13, he’s starting
with two Jersey females, calls his stud
Mayfair and is a member of the Bexhill
Junior Farmer Club. His grandfather,
Richard Watson Hewett, is N.S.W.
branch-president.
• «
Fred Kemp, who has passed-on in
Brisbane at 71, belonged to one of the
very earliest families of the Macleay
River (N.S.W.): the town of Kempsey
stands on what was originally Kemp land.
A great-grandson of Major William
Kemp, of the 80th Regiment (who arrived
at Port Jackson in the Asia in 1837,
became Commandant of Port Macquarie
and later settled on the Macleay), Fred
Kemp was in the Landing at Gallipoli,
was wounded and commissioned at Lone
Pine, and later was in France as a
captain with the 3rd Battalion (wounded
again at Pozieres). He managed branches
of the Bank of Australasia before taking
to wheatfarming at Jondayran (Q.). His
widow, Alice Duncan-Kemp, wrote Our
Sandhill Country.
Vice-president and associate-producer
of the New York College of Music, Otto
Herz has been William Warfield’s regular
pianist since 1950 and is now back in
Sydney with him as associate-artist. Born
in Hungary, Herz first went to the U.S.
in 1939 as accompanist to Zino Fran-
cescatti. He liked Gahd’s Own enough to
settle there permanently, leaving only
MAGICAL MNEMONICS
to accompany famous Americans on
tours in Europe and throughout the
world. He has toured with Grace
Moore, Yehudi Menuhin, Igor Gorin,
Jan Kiepura, Kubelik and many
others. Between tours he’s busy teaching
instrumentalists and singers, and he's also
one of the world’s authorities on lieder
and chamber-music as well as an accom-
plished magician, with a truly amazing
mathematical memory.
• •
“P.C.M.”: Brigadier W. H. Scott (B.
30/7/’5B) told me this story himself. He went
to a field-ambulance for a dressing; the late
Col. Todd was lying on a stretcher with a
bandage over his eyes covering a face-wound.
“Is that you, Scotty?” he asked, hearing Scott's
voice. “Yes,” said Scott; “just got a flesh-
wound.” “Flesh wouldn’t be a wound on
you, man,” snorted Todd; “it would be a
miracle!” (Scott was 6ft. sxin. tall and then
weighed under 9st.)
I was Scott’s orderly-room sergeant in
War II on Home Defence work, and can
vouch for the attributes mentioned by “5 GR.”
When Japan entered the war Scott instructed
a V.D.C. company to construct a telephone-
line from a lonely coast-watching post in South
Gippsland to company H.Q., 27 miles inland.
A red-tape enthusiast in the P.M.G. Depart-
ment wrote to brigade H.Q. asking the reason
for constructing a telephone-line on a public
road without the permission of the P.M.G.
Scott scribbled three words on the letter and
sent it back: “Reason—Pearl Harbor.”
On another occasion, preparing an Intelli-
gence report on a certain district, he mentioned
the large Italian population there as a possible
danger. I ventured to point out that a big
proportion of them had been born in the dis-
trict. “Sergeant,” he snorted, “if your cat
had kittens in the oven, would you call them
scones or kittens?”
• •
Captain J. R. McGrane, of T.E.A.L. (he
was awarded the M.V.O. for piloting the
Queen’s aircraft during her visit to Fiji


and has over three-million flying-miles to
his credit), moves from deputy operations-
manager (flying) to project-manager.
Associated with him in control of a
project-unit organising the re-equipment
of T.E.A.L. with new aircraft will be
A. C. Williams, former lieutenant in the
Fleet Air Arm, who becomes project-
engineer.
0 0
When the Stock and Station Agents’
Association of N.S.W. made a farewell-
presentation to A. W. Blanden, who’s
just retired as Livestock Superintendent
with the N.S.W. Railways, every member
of their council paid an individual tribute
—and, since practically every agent in
the State (and inter-State, too) has called
on him directly at one time or another for
urgent help in rail-transport of livestock,
they should know.
Plain-spoken, but in his job always
fair, if he made a mistake he’d admit it,
if he couldn’t do a thing, he’d say so.
Not talking much about the difficulties
he had to contend with during his seven
years as Livestock Superintendent—
floods, bushfires and the recent drought
gave him headaches —he would say his
main problem was “never enough stock-
vans to go round.” He believes in using
bogey-trucks to carry valuable livestock ;
they’re easier on them than the fixed-
wheel type.
During War II he helped to move the
6th Div. and the Americans ; says there’s
not much difference between troop-
transportation and that of livestock—a
dictum with which, perhaps, troops would
agree.
« •
William Trevor Long, who has retired
from the Victorian Lands Department
(secretary for the last year or so), was
on Gallipoli with the 7th Battalion, had
four years overseas in that war, and
has been a member of Legacy for 30
years: he will still keep going the
swimming-lessons for junior Legatees
which he has been conducting since 1935.
Also, he will remain a managing-com-
mitteeman of Olympic Park, chairman
of the Yarra Bend National Park and
a representative of the Sidney Myer
Music Shell Trust. George Wood, who
worked with him in the department all
the 47 years they both served it, takes
over the secretaryship.
0 0
A redistribution of seats in the
Westralian Legislative Council brings Sir
Charles Latham to the Presidency on a
close non-party vote. He succeeds fellow-
C.P. member C. Loton, who narrowly
beat him for the chair four years ago.
Born at Hythe (Eng.), Latham started
farming in Westralia and joined the
Country party almost at its inception,
entering the Assembly as member for
York. During 37 years in politics he’s
been leader of the C.P., Minister for
Lands, Immigration and Health, Deputy
Premier from 1930 to 1933, and then,
with the change of Government, leader
of the Opposition. Elected Senator in
1942, he lost in the 1943 Federal elec-
tion, but returned to the Westralian Par-
liament as M.L.C. in 1946 and has been
there ever since. Outside Parliament, he
did so well as Commonwealth Director
of Loans in Westralia that he was
knighted in 1949. An impressive six-
footer, he has been Director of Recruiting
in W.A. since 1950. His own war service
was in the ranks of the old 16th Battalion,
A.I.F.
© •
One of the first champions of the
“Pittman technique” for pasture-improve-
ment, and writer of an article in this
week’s Man-on-the-Land pages, K. G.
Schoeffel, managing-director of Welch
Perrin and Co., lives at Cotswold Farm,
Menzies Creek, in the Dandenongs, 25
miles from Melbourne. He has a herd
LAND ECONOMICS
of 60 purebred Friesians and produces
American- and Continental-style dairy-
products such as cottage-cheese and
yoghurt, and tests and experiments on
new ideas in dairying and pasture-
management. Currently he’s testing self-
feeding of silage and lot-feeding with the
forage-harvester. Largely responsible for
introducing strip-grazing to Australia,
Schoeffel invented the “Lam-Bar” and
“Calfeteria” which won the Orange Field
Day award in 1957 and now sell all over
the world.
• •
The R.S.L.’s Certificate of Merit for
services in connection with the education
of ex-service men and women and their
dependants has been conferred on Pro-
fessor A. D. Ross, who (now retired) was
for 40 years Professor of Physics at the
Westralian University. An authority on
Einstein’s theory of relativity and on
the peaceful uses of atomic energy, he
did a lot of valuable work in War II
for all three services. To him, too,
belongs the honor of having founded
musical studies in the Westralian Uni.
and of a prominent part in the formation
of the W.A. Symphony Orchestra. More
recently he initiated the Pan-Indian
Ocean Science Association, which com-
prises 14 countries with territories border-
ing on the Indian Ocean ; last October
he led the Australian delegation to its
third congress, in Madagascar.
• •
Back in Australia as ship’s doctor for
the passenger-freighter Bardic, Air-Vice-
Marshal Lance Corbet, former Perth
medico; he lately retired from the
job of Deputy Director of Medical
Services, R.A.F. Going to England
with his wife in 1932, he joined the
R.A.F. and, during 26 years’ service, was
stationed in many parts of the world. At
the end of his present engagement he
will live in Perth.
• •
A stocky chap wearing a grin and
bow-tie, etc., wandered into The
Bulletin, said he’d been writing for the
paper for years (30, to be exact), and
turned out to be J. E. Murphy, whose
“Aboriginalities” pen-names (among ’em,
“Vingter,” “Laetitia” and “Curate’s
Egg”) are just about legion. So his main
subject-matter will be at once familiar—
nearly always bush-flavored West
Queensland lore. He spent over 35
years in that part of the continent ;
knows most of Queensland’s country-
towns and somebody in each of them.
These days he hangs-out at Oakleigh,
Melbourne, but still keeps a keen eye
north, view pars.
0 •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 67, T. E. Johnson, former
supervising aircraft-surveyor in the Department
of Civil Aviation.
In Melbourne, at 72, Charles Percival
Gartside, at one time Victorian Minister lor
Health and Member of the Legislative Council
for 18 years.
In Sydney, at 62, George Powys Snape,
advertising-manager of “Newspaper News.”
In Melbourne, at 62, A. C. Bryce, connected
with the Royal Agricultural Society of Victoria
for over 20 years, and widely known to cattle-
breeders and exhibitors at Royal Melbourne
Shows.
In Sydney, at 82, Boer War veteran Walter
Low.
In London, at 57, Viscount Bracken, educated
in Sydney, war-time Minister for Information,
First Lord of the Admiralty, 1945, and leading
figure in the U.K. Conservative party for more
than 20 years.
In Melbourne, at 62, Frederick Henry
Hammond, Victorian manager of the T. and G.
Mutual Life Assurance Society.
In Kent (Eng.), at 71, Henry Garrow, one-
time Victorian general-manager of Wiggins
Teape and Alex Pirie Pty., Ltd. He went to
England in 1946 to take-up a position on
the firm's London board.
In Melbourne, at 55, Joseph Swanson
Wilkinson, general-manager of Herald Gravure
Printers and a director of the Argus and
Australasian, Ltd.
In Brisbane, at 59, Pat Hill, referee for 24
years at Brisbane Stadium and controller of
an estimated 12,000 bouts. In his youth
he was chief sparring-partner to world-rankir.g
middleweight Jimmy Clabby.
In Auckland (N.Z.), Australian actress Gertie
Campion, who started in musical-comedy in
1895 as understudy in J.C.W.’s “The Gay
Parisienne” and later starred in “The Belle of
New York,” “The Geisha” and “La Mascotte.”


ONE BEACHCOMBER TO ANOTHER
TO “SNOW,” FROM “IRISH”
The most experienced active practitioner on our northern coasts
writes to a retired contemporary of his nicely-payable work off the
beaches and the marine wealth of the North. Signing himself “Irish”
and writing to “Snow,” he asks what’s wrong with other, younger
Australians that they are not up there hunting a share of this wealth.
“Snow” here interpolates explanations (in brackets) as required.
(Continued from last week )
Stayed in Broome a month, shipped
my second load of shell to New
York, and set out for parts farther
north.
Between Broome and Cape Leveque
ran into all the creeks and bays along
the coast, but didn't do much work, as
there is very little shell-bottom under
three fathoms along that part. The
Beagle Bay Mission now owns the land
on the whole 100 miles of coast between
Barred Creek and Leveque. They bought
Tom Johnston’s old station at Barred
“For Heaven's sake, Cartwright, don't lose your head!”
Creek, and also old Tomas Puertellano’s
at Lombardina when the old man died.
(Tomas, a Manilaman, was one of the
first divers to use the diving-dress on the
N.-W. coast. In his old age he started
a small cattle-station.)
Went into King Sound through Pearl
Pass and across Sunday Straits to the
Graveyard (a landlocked pearling-
ground; very deep water, where many
divers lost their lives). Picked-up about
half-a-ton of shell on the reef there, and
then ran through Whirlpool Pass to
Yampi Sound, where I had a look at
the iron-workings —an extraordinarily
comfortable little town, but rather off
my line ; so, after a couple of days, con-
tinued on to Montgomery Islands.
No binghis there at all now —there
were about 60 when they killed the
Maguire brothers back in 1913. Hawks-
bill turtle thick in the channels between
the reefs. I got about 3cwt. of first-
class tortoiseshell, and filled-up with as
much trochus as I could carry—we used
to pick-up a ton a day without any
trouble. Plenty of trepang there, too,
but I didn’t trouble about it, as I didn’t
have enough firewood to smoke it.
T 5 eckoned I’d done well enough to take
a holiday, so ran down to the head
of Collier Bay to have a look for Mad
Jack’s gold. (Mad Jack, a lone
prospector, was speared by Yampi Sound
blacks in 1909. Aboard his derelict
lugger were found 30oz. of alluvial gold
—origin unknown, but believed to come
from around Collier Bay.)
For a couple of months walked 15 or
20 miles a day up and down gullies and
over hills without any luck. Then I
went through the Funnel into Secure
Bay—l’d never been there before, and
I’ll never go again. Passage under a
quarter of a mile wide, with plenty of
rocks scattered across it. Even at neaps
I reckon tide runs at about 15 knots.
Whirlpools and heavy overfalls every-
where. In spring-tides the whole show
fairly boils-over —tide must run at well
over 20 knots. Rise and fall is about
40ft. —the highest in Australia and one
of the highest in the world. Going
through there’s no time to admire the
scenery. You’ve got to pick your way
between the rocks, whirlpools and over-
falls while travelling mighty fast.
Spent two months inside Secure Bay.
Looked all round its shores and as far
up the Isdell and Charnley Rivers as I
could get in the dinghy—and never got
a color. Never even saw any likely
country. The few binghis we met had
never even seen gold, so I don't think
there can be any in the district. Glad
I didn’t strike any signs, or I’d probably
have been there still.
Mad Jack must have got his gold
further north, so I tried up the Prince
Regent, Moran, King Edward and
Drysdale Rivers —not a sign anywhere.
Looks to me as if it came from around
the headwaters of the Drysdale—too far
for me to walk.
At Port George Mission I found the
mission had closed-down as there
were not enough binghis left to
missionise. Camped at the well I found
Billy, one of my old boys, with another
buck and three gins. Asked him why he
hadn’t gone away with the mission—and
he opened out:
“Mission no good. More better he
go ’way. Too much makim prayer,
singem hymn, praisem Lord. All time
wearem clothes. Every day Billy diggem
garden, Harry cuttem scrub longa yam
patch, Jimmy choppem firewood, Mary
scrubbem floor, Maggie washem clothes,
Jinny milkem nanny-goat. No ’nutf chew-
bac [tobacco]. No cobba-cobba [cor-
roborees]. One man only one woman.
No walkabout. No good!”
Forty years at the mission evidently
hadn’t converted Billy. Although he
didn’t know it, he summed-up the causes
of his people’s plight.
Clothes, whitefeller tucker, camping at
stations, missions, or around towns for
weeks or months at a time, instead of
shifting camp every few days ; break-up
of their marriage-customs and tjadjis
(taboos) are all factors in the rapid exter-
mination of binghi.
Like the kangaroo and wallaby he is
a bush creature, inevitably wiped-out
by civilisation or even by disturbance


VULNERABLE DEFENCE


of his natural haunts and way of life.
Don’t think there’ll be a full-blood left
in 20 years. There’ll be plenty of half-
castes, quadroons and octoroons, though,
for the mixed-bloods are breeding-up
rapidly. By and large they’re not bad
types, and fit in fairly easily with the
white man’s way of life.
From Drysdale River I ran straight
across to Darwin, from where I
shipped my trochus and tortoise-shell to
Japan—the best market for them. Met
all the old hands. None of them in-
terested in shell or trepang. Every man-
jack of them had a uranium prospect,
and each of them offered to sell me
shares. •
Won’t bore you with a detailed account
of the trip across the Territory coast,
except to say it was the same as along
the W.A. coast—reefs and shallow water
alive with trochus, trepang and pearl-
shell. Dawdled along, having a look in
everywhere, and working a few days at
all my favorite spots.
Thought I knew everything there was
to know about the coast, but twice found-
out I didn’t. First time was at the
Pellew Islands (s.-w. comer of Gulf of
Carpentaria). I’d often worked there
before; it’s a very good place for
“If you came out here to try to forget her , why don't you TRY!”
trepang. I’d never worried about the
(pearl) shell on the reef. It’s small,
three-inch stuff, which I'd never thought
worth picking-up. On this occasion,
however, spotted a couple of binghis
working over the'reef, and went over to
have a talk to them. Found they were
shelling—and in every second or third
shell getting one or two first-class settings
(small pearls averaging about -gin. in
diameter)—all beautiful lustre—so we
set about doing likewise. Cleaned the
reefs up in a fortnight and got 200-odd
settings, the biggest being a perfect 10-
grain round stone (pearl)—the lot worth,
about £6OO. The two binghis had found
a perfect 25-grain double-button worth
every penny of £7OO.
There’s quite a lot of the same small
shell on the reefs around Wellesley
Islands (s.-e. corner of the Gulf), but
we only got a few settings there and
moved on to Torres Strait,
„ . .
T u |t after rounding Cape York, about
five or six miles offshore, spotted a
boy drifting in a dinghy with a couple
_others floating in the water nearby.
Thinking they might be in trouble, I
sailed up alongside, and for the second
time learned a new trick,
The two boys floating near the dinghy
were squatting in blown-up motor-tyres,
looking down through water-telescopes
(glass-bottomed boxes) held between their
legs. Asked them what they were doing,
anc l they replied, “Catchem blackfish”
( a variety of trepang).
Everywhere else I’d been we’d always
used divers to get it—it’s not called deep-
water-blackfish for nothing. Each boy
in the tyres had a long fishing-line, one
end held by the boy in the dinghy, and
on the other end a 101 b. lead-weight
moulded on the shank of a straightened-
out shark-hook. The boy in the tyre
held the weight about a foot off the
bottom, and, with the dinghy, drifted
along—paddling about a bit to cover
more ground. On spotting a blackfish
he worked the lead directly over it,
dropped it, impaled the fish on the barb,
and signed to the boy in the dinghy to
haul it up. They were working in 15
fathoms.
We picked-up the knack after a pouple
of hours’ practice, and, except for a
couple of runs out to look at the Barrier
Reef and a few trips along inshore, spent
the rest of our time on the Queensland
coast chasing blackfish. Got two tons
j n eight weeks;—worth £BOO a ton in
Hong Kong
( To g e concluded next week)
“Muskeen”: The latest fashion-note
comes from Alice Springs, where the
lubras of the Centre swagger in a la mode
chicness in canvas air-express bags. Worn
off-the-shoulder and touching here and
there, they are the duckiest things, and
really do something for a girl.
* * * *
“Bird”:. Sign near Burleigh (Q.):
“Koalas cross the road here.”
* * * *
“Patsy”: On a farm at Gymbowen
in the Victorian Wimmera the swallows
roost between the rafters and the gal-
vanised-iron roof on the veranda. On a
morning when the frost was heavier than
usual the birds failed to make their
customary getaway when the cocky hove
in sight. And no wonder —their head-
feathers were frozen to the roof!
* * * *
“Bungaroo”: Add to the list of in-
congruous placenames the small town-
ship of Cape Clear, between Skipton and
Ballarat (Vic.). Out on the western
plains, miles from any ocean, in earlier
days it had been a mining-boom town.
Among the first fossickers on the field
were an Irishman and his mate, and
the warning they gave to each other as
they worked the shaft with windlass ana
bucket—“Kape clear!”—was taken up by
the rest of the diggers as a name for the
place. At least, that’s what an old-
timer told me.
* * * *
“Spin”: An aboriginal musterer on a
station nor’-west of Leonora (W.A.) was
following a goanna underground when
he struck gold, and kept on digging.
Now he and seven of his cobbers —all
natives —have pegged-out claims and
lodged applications for prospecting-areas,
and they’re not doing at all badly with
picks and shovels. At the latest report
they’ve collected lOOoz. between them.
* * * *
“Bluebush”: Add to the mystery of
delayed births that of a herd of cattle
on an open range. The big calving
occurs about March. Yet, though calves
may not have been dropped for months
—at least, in numbers to make them
noticeable —if there's an unseasonal fall
of rain at any time of the year it
will be immediately followed by a good
drop of calves. The period of gestation
with cattle is about nine months. I
know a sudden fall of rain, and a quick
drop of temperature, will throw lambings,
foalings and calvings forward a week or
so. But I haven't worked out yet how
they regulate things so far ahead.
¥ * * *
“Advocate”: The urge for a binge
hits in strange places. We were on a
construction job in mountain country in
Victoria ; stores were low, there was no
word of supplies coming out by pack-
horse, and I was the mug deputed for
a five-mile trek through the bush to
scrounge from a station down-river.
Rounding a bend I came on a log hut,


“He took up the game because his doctor ordered him to relax."
smoke curling out of the rubble-chimney.
Inside were five blokes, wonderfully
pickled, surrounded by a noble array of
empties. Outside, rugged hills, the river,
tall timber and thick scrub, grey and
misty in the drizzle ; the scent of gums
and the silence of the bush. The nearest
pub at least 15 miles. They didn’t have
a skerrick of tucker, but I was offered
half of what they had —a half-emptied
bottle of grog. I went my way. The
station provided meat —no charge. But
as to who the pickled five were or why,
I never learnt. And, anyway, did it
matter?
* * * *
“Sol”: Every time I see a Western
film I feel that if the posse’s pistols were
loaded with ball-cartridges, not blanks,
there would be more dead neddies than
bulleted baddies lying over the landscape.
I remember a kangarooing party out
from a wheatbelt town in W.A. All
mounted and with dogs, the party in-
cluded the local postmaster, who decided
it was a good opportunity to test the
office revolver. At the first “Tally-ho!”
he took-off in fine Hollywood style,
waving the weapon in the air. His first
and only shot scored a dead-centre hit,
below and behind his horse’s ears.
* * * *
“North Esk”: A headstone is to be
placed on the grave of an “old soldier”
on the edge of the military training-camp
at Brighton (Tas.) to commemorate
“Sgt. Chauncy,” mascot of the 18th
National Service Training Battalion, and
the Speck’s best-known goat. He was
presented to the unit in 1954 by A.
Chauncey, of Chauncey Vale, and be-
came a familiar figure as he led marches
by the omit through Hobart, Launceston,
Burnie and Devonport. “The Sgt.” took
part in every ceremonial and regimental
parade held by the unit, including guards-
of-honor at the opening of Parliament
and the Royal Hobart Show. His
successor, Chauncey 11, also a gift from
the same source, is now on the strength
undergoing basic training for his new job.
* * * *
“Justin Thyme”: As to distance,
“near,” I find, can be a most elastic term.
I’ve just read (B. 6 / 8 / ’5B) of Tom Went-
worth Brown, down from Leadville,
“near Mlidgee.” The last time I hoofed
it the mileposts showed 18 miles to Gul-
gong and another 29 to Leadville —47
in all. But I didn’t feel I was getting
“near” the place till I struck a pub at
Birriwa, five miles Jrom Leadville. On
another excursion, this time on push-
bike, I was told at Ivanhoe to make for
Broken Hill via Menindee, the latter
place being mentioned as “not far” from
The Hill. It turned out to be 70 miles
of hard pushing. There in a pub, I
asked a bloke with a queer accent where
he came from. Dipping a finger in his
beer, he drew a rough map, circled off
one extremity, and said, “From Cornwall,
near England!” |
* * * *
“Sack”: Considering that Australia’s
top pest sprang from a mere half-dozen
bunnies ; that foxes overran the country
from similar small beginnings ; not to
mention the growing hordes of donkeys
and camels in the inland, why hasn’t the
domestic cat followed the pattern and
bred to pest-proportions? True, the
fummy gone bush is no rarity ; but it
is not, and doesn’t seem likely ever to
become, a serious menace. Yet hundreds
of cats were released in the wheat
country during mouse-plagues, and for
years cats have been marooned or have
adopted bush life all over the country.
Puss is a prolific breeder, hardy, a
natural hunter and scrounger, and a
really tough fighter who could more than
hold her own against all-comers. Accord-
ing to precedent, Australia should be
overrun with marauding felines. Some-
thing, somewheje along the years, must
have kept the numbers within bounds.
Lucky for us. '
* * * *
“Tabba”: Now, why that convention-
bound practice of tapping the rungs of
water-tanks, especially in summer, to
find the level? Far easier on the knuckles,
and just as effective, is to run your hand
up the side until you come to the change
in temperature.
* * * *
“Macleigh”: The owner's nephew, on
a visit and not overpopular, had a spill
off his motorbike about four miles
from the homestead. The bike was
damaged, and instead of making back
he limped ahead and reached a boundary-
hut five miles from where he fell
off. Afterwards, the overseer wanted
to know, “I wonder why he went on
instead of coming back?” Bert, the
boundary-rider, commented: “It was just
the way he was facin’ when he stood up.
If he’d been . facin’ sideways he’d have
still bin goin’.” Then, after a thoughtful
pause: “Flamin’ pity he hadn’t bin facin’
sideways! ”


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES : BIJ 4357 (2 lines).
L. F. THORPE. MANAGER.
ALASTAIR W. MACDONALD
(MEMBER OF THE SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney Telephone BL 1504-5
Business, Robbery, Etc.
THE INVESTOR'S LOSING RACE
TT'ARIous analyses of top*
* ranking equity investments
show how poorly the majority
of investors have been rewarded
for their thrift over the past
20 years or more.
Those who bought scrip in
8.H.P., Burns Philp, C.S.R.,
Henry Jones, Woolworths,
G. J. Coles and the leading
banks and insurance-companies
in 1937, and have taken-up all
issues since, are now showing
yields on their total investment
ranging from around 5 p.c. to
under 10 p.c.
Some of the leading retailers,
like Myers, David Jones and
Farmers, have produced a
better return —in the vicinity
of 16-18 p.c. or more. But
those people who put a
premium on financial strength
and solidity when they bought
their shares in 1937 have not
generally been adequately
rewarded by income-returns,
especially when the depreci-
ation in the value of money
over the same time is taken into
account. In most cases, indeed,
they come out on the wrong
side.
It is true that in the majority
of instances- they would show
a fairly substantial market-
increment. But even this
increment would rarely keep
pace with the depreciation in
the value of the pound over
the same 21 years.
The Trap in “Increment”
Much of this increment, too,
depends upon an investor today
accepting a yield of as little as
2.9 p.c. in the instance of
Woolworths, and not much
more in the case of some others.
It is a matter for deep con-
sideration as to how long, in
the light of past history,
investors will be prepared to
accept returns so low as those
now available from front-rank
stocks. Upon the correct
answer to that depends, to a
great extent, how long market-
increment can be expected to
be sustained.
A study of many of our
leading industrial and financial
stocks in the light of their
merits as investments shows
that the economic and political
“A rather loose-fitting jacket, I’d say, sir.”
dice have been loaded against
them ever since price-control
qame into operation in the first
months of the war in 1939.
Since then companies, public
and private, have been subject
to levies and restrictions that
lack justice, equity or economic
commonsense.
The double-taxation of
company-earnings—first in the
hands of the company and then
in the hands of the shareholder
—was introduced as a war-time
measure and has never been
discontinued.
Particularly savage taxation
has been placed on private
companies, especially that
which attacks their undistri-
buted profits.
And in the courts of indus-
trial arbitration and concili-
ation the real wages of
workers have been raised —
raised beyond the extent of loss
of buying-power in the value of
money, that is—while for
several years productivity of
the nation was reduced by the
40-hour week.
A class of citizen to suffer in
this obvious economic squeeze
was the investor in industry. As
wage-earners got more, he got
less. He had to pay part of
the wage-earners’ extra remu-
neration through his reduced
dividends and for his increased
social services as well through
taxation.
Assault on Thrift
In this assault upon the pro-
prietary side of industry other
distortions arose from the
original one of under-
productivity of the wage-earner
and his disproportionate share
of the national income. One
side-effect was emphasis on
consumption instead of upon
saving and investment. This
has in turn led ttj capital-
shortage. And the attitude of
the taxation authorities in
making no allowance for the
shrinking .in the value of
reserves for depreciation when
it comes to replacing, at present
inflated prices, worn-out or
obsolete assets has made this
capital-shortage more apparent
still.
Such a shortage of capital
has forced progressive and
expanding companies to hold-
back as much of-their profits
as possible and treat them as
capital. This has been made
particularly necessary by the
mulish attitude of the taxation
authorities in respect of capital-
erosion through inadequate
depreciation provision.
Companies holding - back
profits for capital purposes,
and/or charging profits with
far more depreciation than is
allowed as a deduction for*
taxation purposes, has meant
that only a proportion of a
company’s apparent profits are
available for distribution in
dividends.
“Note” Issues
The taxation factor is so
important nowadays, too, that
a company in need of funds
beyond those “ploughed-back”
from profit-earning often
chooses to issue debentures or
notes (the interest on which is
deductible for taxation pur-
poses) rather than issue
ordinary shares to its existing
shareholders in the proportion
to which they already hold
shares.
This issuing of notes has
been another thing in recent
years which has prevented a
satisfactory build -up of
income-earning from progres-
sive share-investment.
But 'the company’s view-
point is clear and unassailable,
in the majority of cases. It
may be already sweating to
maintain a dividend on its
acknowledged share - capital,
and cannot see the sense of
incurring additional taxation
liabilities by issuing more
share-capital (especially during
a period w hen new capital -
expenditure will be “dead” for
some time from the revenue-
earning point of view) when an
issue of short-term notes will
serve the- better.
Second-liners Better
In comparing present-day
incomes from investments
made in 1937 and added -to
since, it must be conceded that
in 1937 high prices were being
paid for (and low yields


Tilt VEL
trouble
m
Birds have none of the worries of the
human traveller booking passages,
reserving accommodation, or buying
tickets.
You, too, can travel trouble free if
you let the Bank of New South Wales
make all your arrangements. Just enquire
at any branch of the Bank. There is no
charge. ,
m
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
TRAVEL D EPARTM ENT
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
A5816C
accepted from) many of the
top-line stocks, so that subse-
quent performance needed to
be high in order to live-up to
the expectations of 1937. But
in most cases it can be said —
and from no fault of the com-
pany concerned that top-
liners over the past quarter-
of-a-century have not equalled
the expectations of the
investors of that period.
On the other hand, many
of the second-liners are today
returning a much better divi-
dend-yield Jo_ their owners.
Some of the conversions into
public companies since the war
have proved to be vigorous in
their expansion and in their
profit-winning. Among these
have been A.R.C. Industries,
Reichhold Chemicals, Waugh
and Josephson, Minster, Ltd.,
and Clyde Industries.
Among the high - priced
stocks of the pre-war period
to have made a particularly
good showing all through is
J. Fielding and Co., Ltd., for
which nearly £4 a £1 share
was paid in 1937, but which
today shows a return of 17 p.c.
on the amount originally
invested.
Our TV Economy
During 1957-58 total expen-
diture in Australia on what
is described by the Common-
wealth Statistician as “personal
consumption” increased by
£257 million to £3758 million
—that is, by 7 p.c. In the total
purchases of “hardware, elec-
trical goods, furniture, etc.,
£4OO million,” increased by
£3B million, or more than 10
p.c.
This “hardware, electrical”
section includes TV-sets, and
shows the greatest propor-
tionate increase of any of the
specified items.
The impact of TV on our
economy in eastern Australia
has been very considerable,
even though, in the first case,
it is confined to Sydney and
Melbourne.
One of the industries to be
hit hardest as a result of
TV is the movie busi-
ness. In Sydney and Mel-
bourne suburbs particularly
there has been a sharp drop
in theatre-attendances, and
some theatres now open only
on popular nights. On Syd-
ney’s North Shore line there
are reports (unconfirmed) of
some picture-show freeholds
having been acquired by chain-
stores for future development.
Over recent years the Greater
Union Theatres group has set
aside £650,000 out of earnings
to meet TV competition, and
chairman N. B. Rydgb is con-
fident that, following .some
diversification of activities,
“profitable trading will ensue,
despite the change in the
immediate conditions which is
presenting a challenge to the
industry generally in Aus-
tralia.”
Taking a long view, this
might be the moment when a
relaxing by U.S. film-interests
of their stranglehold on the
Australian film-showing busi-
ness might keep many subur-
ban picture-shows in operation.
It is well known that U.S. film-
distributors in the past have
kept picture-show proprietors’
margins to a pretty fine point.
A widening of the margin no\y
might encourage a suburban
theatre-owner to keep in busi-
ness (and maintain an outlet
for the film-producer) until the
tide turns again, as it seems it
undoubtedly will.
Sharemarket Still Strong
A part from the sustained—
and controversial —strength
of the market leaders, interest
in Second - line investment
stocks is now a feature of the
Stock Exchanges..
Some published -results of
companies in their operations
up to recent balancing-dates
have been unexpectedly good,
and their scrip has advanced
in market favor. One co. has
been Swans (N.S.W.); another,
of course, Tecnico; now.
E.M.I. ; and an announcement
from Australian Blue Metal has
sent its scrip soaring. Apart
from cos. presenting figures,
“advance information” appears
to be leaking to the market in
respect of other June 30
accounts, and demand (and
anticipation) are widespread.
The height to which most
front-rank stocks have soared
seems unreasonable and
unremunerative. But there
will no doubt be opportunities
for profitable investment
among the good-class second-
liners for some time to come.
They appear to be the chief
hope now for the rational
investor in industrial equities.
H.-p. and Landlords
VfAßious State Governments
* have been making loud
noises about the spread of the
hire-purchase habit, and have
been considering restrictive
legislation. One reason for
their concern has been that
the offers of 6 p.c. up to 10 p.c.
interest by hire-purchase con-
cerns for funds to re-lend has
interfered with the Loan
Councils efforts to borrow at
5 p.c. for State public works
and for local - government
bodies to borrow at up to 10s.
per cent. more.
The ease with which hire-
purchase cos. have been able
to raise money at 6 p.c. and
upwards has beeen partly
because landlords are no
longer allowed, under State
“fair”-rent legislation, a reason-
able return on their investment.
In pre-war days it was not
difficult for a landlord to get
a rent which allowed him 10
p.c. or more (gross) on his out-
lay. Today he is lucky if his
rent on a pre-war cottage
returns him anything at all after
paying rates, upkeep, etc.
This “fair”-rent evil has had
many side-effects, including
the development of a variety of
rackets, and, like other restric-
tive practices, has produced a
lopsided economy, with
emphasis on expenditure on
consumer-goods and a shying-
away by investors from build-
ing to let.
If landlords were permitted


J
NO SINGLE RUM CAN MATCH IT!
RED JACK RUM
o
RED JACK
ROM
a
BLENDED FROM QUEENSLAND’S
CHOICEST 7-YEAR-OLD
POT-STILL RUMS. NO “SINGLE"
RUM CAN MATCH IT
Specially blended by
John Dewar & Sons Ltd., Sydney and
Harbotcle Brown & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney
f
DWB7
to charge rents that returned a
reasonable yield on their
investment there would be
nothing like the present rush
to put money into hire-
purchase securities.
But, as things stand in thi3
controlled economy, who is to
blame the investor who prefers
to put his money into h.-p.
unsecured notes in preference to
meagre and uncertain returns
from property and low returns
from other investments?/
State Governments—especi-
ally Labor Governments, which
set the standard for economic
prostitution in their electoral
programmes—need to indulge
in a bit of soul-searching
before they start condemning
any sector of the private
economy for what it may be
doing. If they do a little
introspection they will very
likely find that earlier restric-
tions and “controls” are to
blame for many of the
additional “controls” for
which they profess to see a
need now.
Exit Waistcoats!
TThe three-piece suit has
plainly had it. When J. J.
Dedman, Minister for War
Organisation of Industry,
introduced men’s austerity
clothing in the early part of
World War II he posed for
the press unabashedly in a two-
piece suit, and tailors were not
allowed to make waistcoats
except in special circumstances,
Only mock cuffs were allowed
on trousers, and buttons on
the sleeves of coats were taboo,
Mr. Dedman’s department had
quite a time playing round with
the nonsensical specifications of
the austerity suit, but it is
doubtful if, on balance, any-
thing at all was saved by These
bureaucratic fashion-designers.
In the ultimate, however, one
feature of the austerity suit has
survived—the waistcoat made
of the same material as the
suit is almost a thing of the
past. A post-war development
has been the multiple-fitting
off-the-peg two-piece suit for
m en and youths, and even
tailors now generally quote
for a two-piece suit, the waist-
coat being an extra,
In 1949 _ 50 the waistcoat was
still fighting to retain its place
as t tkc reat jy- mat ) e suit.
xh £ year 402,000 men's and
youth's suits were made with
waistcoats, against 625,000
without. By 1956-57, however,
three-piece suits had dropped
to 45,000, against 659,000 two-
piece ensembles. In April of
this year the suit without a
waistcoat had fallen to 4 p.c.
only of all ready-made suits.
Oddly enough, though the
two-piece suit is now obviously
accepted by the majority, some
still like to have a waistcoat
when they buy a two-piecer,
and the snuff-colored vest —or
burgundy-colored, green, grey
or brown —is becoming increas-
ingly popular for winter wear.
But, generally speaking, the
two-piece suit, along with the
collar-attached shirt, has
probably been the most radical
change in men’s clothing since
men gave-up wearing boots and
took to shoes after World
War I.
U.K. Banks and H.-P.
[From .London]
'"The deal between Barclays
Bank and the U.K.’s largest
hire-purchase concern, United
Dominions Trust, which gives
the former a £4 million stake
and a 25 p.c. interest in the
latter, is a logical consequence
of the suspension of the credit-
squeeze” and of the Chan-
cellor's recent letter to the
Capital Issues Committee in
which he wrote: “The Treasury
will be prepared to act on a
recommendation in favor of an
issue where the committee con-
siders that the raising of finance
is desirable as a means of im-
proving the stability of the
hire-purchase financial system.”
Unlike Australian and
American practice, English
banks until the last few weeks
have shown a conserva-
tive reluctance to associate
themselves, other than by the
granting of advances in the
normal way of business, to hire-
purchase companies. (In fact,
Mr. Tuke, chairman of Bar-
clays, implied in his last annual
speech that the two types of
business were separate and
better kept so). The excep-
tion, until very, recently,
was one Scottish bank which
bought a finance-house four
years ago ; the success of this
operation may have given
the impetus to a change in
banking practice which, in any
event, was bound to come. The
other joint-stock banks have
now mostly followed suit.
While the share.niarket
reacted favorably to the
Barclays proposition there was-
considerable discontent in the
City following a transaction
which is of the type referred
to 'recently (July 9) in The
Bulletin whereby large parcels
of shares are sold “off the
market” at a concessional rate.
(Bank shares as a whole have
firmed following the other h.-p.
tie-ups.)
Barclays invested £4 million
in U.D.T. at £4 per £1 unit,
securing in effect a discount of
about 20 p.c. U.D.T.’s ordinary
capital will be raised from £3
million to £4 million. A capi-
talisation, of £1 million will be
made and a new cumu-
lative preference stock is to
be issued to ordinary stock-
holders (Barclays included) on
a one-for-four basis.
This led to a protest by
a stockholder of U.D.T., who
is himself chairman and
managing - director of a
financial house and who
threatened, if no satisfactory
answer to his letter was
received, to call an extraordi-
nary meeting. He affirmed that
a huge bonus has been handed
to Barclays and that it is
“entirely unethical” for “nega-
tive control” to pass to one
stockholder over the heads, and
without the knowledge, of the
rest. His suggested com-
promise was that the bank
should be excluded from the
scrip-issue and that the basis
should be one-for-one and not
one-for-four.
It is possible that Mr. Gibson
Jarvie, the U.D.T. chairman,
may have to reconsider,
although it is said that the
nature of the transaction—not
a straightforward purchase of
stock but a deal very much
to the advantage* of U.D.T.—
may inhibit him. In other
words, the bank is not disposed
to give anything away
B.H.P. Wire Consolidation
TTBrough the medium of a
-*■ new subsidiary, Australian
Wire Industries Pty., Ltd.,
B.H.P. is consolidating
financially, at any rate-. — its
various interests in w'ire and
wire-netting manufacture.
Australian Wire Industries
will have a nominal capital of
£lO million, and iit will take-
over four subsidiaries at
present wholly owned by
B.H.P. —Lysaght Bros. Pty.,
Ltd. (Sydney), Australian Wire
Rope Works Pty., Ltd. (New-
castle), Rylands Bros. (Aust.),
Ltd. (Newcastle), and Bulli-
vants Australian Co. Pty., Ltd.
(distributors of wire-ropes in
Sydney).
Lysaght Bros, makes wire,
wire-netting and other wire
products and zinc-oxide. Aus-
tralian Wire Rope Works
makes steel-wire ropes. Rylands
Bros, makes steel fence-posts as
well as wire, wire-netting, etc.
Registered office of Aus-
tralian Wire Industries Pty.,
Ltd., is in Melbourne. The
administrative office is in New-
castle.


WITHDRAW?
Many woolgrowers will be asking themselves this
question when sales commence.
Those who decide to withdraw will be hoping for
better prices later in the season. By so doing they will
tie up considerable sums of money to the value of their
clip, incur further interest charges and cause extra
handling of their bales in the broker’s store.
To these growers we offer an ALTERNATIVE which
is to meet the market on their normal sale date and buy
greasy wool from us for forward delivery. Their position
then is that they have received their income for the year’s
work and are still able to benefit from a rise in wool values
with a very small capital outlay.
We require £5 per bale deposit immediately on the
signing of a contract.
Our standard wool is 64’s quality and good top-
making style.
Our weight per bale is 3001 b. net greasy.
A grower may terminate any contract before the
delivery date.
Settlement to be based on our current quote for the
wool, less our brokerage of two pence per lb. greasy.
Profit may be taken without the time lag in re-selling
wool.
In the event of a fall in values further loss may be
prevented by termination of contract.
For further information Write to:
CLIVE HALL PTY. LIMITED,
13 PHILLIP STREET (Box 5260. G.P.0.)
SYDNEY
Telegrams: YARDWIDE. Sydney
Telephone: BU 6062


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Artbursts
Society of Artists
The N. S. Wales Society of
Artists has an exceptionally
good show this year at the
Education Department Gal-
leries ; and the chief reason
is that it is compacted into
one room instead of spread
out over the usual two.
It is trimmed down to essen-
tials, and where the paintings
are “advanced” they are not
—in general—haywire, and
where they are traditional they
are rarely feeble.
If there is a discovery to
be made it is William Salmon’s
“Stumps and Grass.” It may
not be the best painting on
view, but where so many
painters repeat themselves year
after year, it is something
fresh ; and it is a nice, solid
piece of work. As in a good
Drysdale, though the style is
very different, the white stumps
have the abstract advantages
of queer shapes, while at the
same time it is a faithful bit
of realism. You have only
to look at the lovely little
sapling in the foreground to
be sure that Salmon has the
observant eye.
Among the abstracts or
semi-abstracts Thomas Gleg-
horn’s “Edge of Night” stands
out for its crisp design and
because —most abstracts being
so very lurid —it is cool.
Frank Hodgkinson has a fairly
effective hot number.
Even confined to one
room it is too big a show to
discuss in detail ; but there are
good paintings in their different
styles by J. Carington Smith,
John Rowell, Arthur Evan
Read, Charles Meere, E. A.
Harvey, Arthur Murch, Mar-
garet Preston, Maximilian
Feuerring, Orban, Wakelin,
Reinis Zusters and Janna
Bruce.
Stage and Music
William Warfield
The burly American negro
baritone, who began his Sydney
season at the Town Hall on
Saturday night, has much more
to offer than a voice of superb
timbre effortlessly produced
over a range that allows him a
strainless G and yet can des-
cend well into basso territory
in comfort. His interpretations
have a markedly intellectual
quality ; his diction is a joy ;
and above all he has masterly
control of tonal shading.
This latter attribute was sub-
jected to a searching test in
Lully’s “Sombre Woods,”
which followed the concert's
opener, “Mighty Lord and
King All Glorious,” from
Bach’s “Christmas Oratorio” —
florid singing, this, but of won-
derful depth. But the song by
the 17th-century Frenchman
can be a singer’s nightmare.
Set on the half-voice through-
out and pitched fairly high for
a baritone, it is also one of the
most uncompromising examples
of legato in the repertoire. It
is therefore a supreme test of
breathing, phrasing and tone-
control. The baritone’s account
of it was the most satisfying
this commentator has heard
from anyone.
And of course there were
the spirituals, than whom
no singer in the world does
them better.
Otto Hertz was more than
just an accompanist—he was
a collaborator of the highest
order, so that voice and key-
board meshed with a perfec-
tion seldom attained on the
concert-platform.
♦♦♦ ♦*>
“Fid'elio”
The Sydney production, by
Stefan Haag, for the Eliza-
bethan Theatre Trust of Beet-
hoven’s only opera was a
resounding and unexpected
success unexpected because,
outside its native Germany, it
has never attained a wide
popularity.
Haag provided an original,
simple and effective setting
which needed no change
throughout the two acts. It
consisted of a central platform
with four wings at varying
angles, with access to three
of them gained by hidden
steps. No less ingenious was
his massing of the choruses ;
once he had no fewer than
50-odd people on what looked
to be a frail structure, yet with
no impression of overcrowding
or confusion.
Some good performances
by Alan Light, Neil Warren-
Smith, Sylvia Fisher and
Madge Stephens lent dramatic
weight.
Yogi Knight
When a British knight
gives a lecture on yoga, the
audience, one feels, should be
at least as interesting as the
speaker. One looks for the
burning-eyed god-seeker, the
character in search of a loin-
cloth.
But, perhaps because of the
prices (7s. 6d. to 12s. 6d.),
there were no god-seekers
apparent at Sir Paul Dukes’s
first lecture, “Yoga Explained,”
at Sydney’s Assembly Hall:
such characters are often apt
to feel that no box-offices
should be put between a man
and his salvation.
This audience was mainly
middle-aged and female, well-
dressed and very attentive.
Nor did the speaker himself
give much encouragement to
the god-seeker.
Sir Paul turned out to be a
lively, jocular little man who
spoke about yoga as if it were
a kind of exclusive club or
fraternity.
It had, he said, nothing to
do with lying on beds of nails
or walking through fire. Nor
had it much to do with re-
ligion or mysticism, though its
members had very high moral
ideals indeed. It was, rather,
a science, an art —the science
and art of getting that “extra
bit” out of life by correcting
and controlling the bodily func-
tions.
Take breathing. If one
learnt to breathe properly one
got an increased sense of well-
being and was better able to
control one’s nerves. This
could be done through simple
exercises, but there was a
special knack involved, and it
was too complex to be ex-
plained in a short lecture.
Those who were interested
enough would be well advised
to inquire about Sir Paul’s
Channel 2, ABN, Sydney: The A.B.C.'s “Any Questions?" show. On the night Lahm went out to Gore Hill to sketch
them the witenagemot consisted of (left to right) housewife Carolyn Bernsten, Professor Alan Stout, question-master F.
Legg, lawyer David Griffin and guest-member Morris West, the novelist.


GUARD,
Ca&h/
stcftih' ci/
PROTECTA
HtgiiiLhEiiO
TILL
%
Suitable (or every type of business it records
all Sales, Credits, Payout* etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agenli—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE «
rERTiI •
W. c. Penfold Si Co, Pty. Ltd.
. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd,
« Vardon Price Ltd,
• Docket Book Co. (Aust.j
CONSERVE ALL YOU CAN IN A
LYSAGHT
HEAVY GAUGE
v-.v-:•>.•:•:
MATERIAL: Heavy gauge 5/5" corrugated galvanized
sheets, pre-drilled and curved. Waterproof jointing
material: bolts, nuts, washers and tools. Outlet fitting,
drilled and threaded to suit every pipe size up to 6".
Bolted construction facilitates replacement of sheets with-
out dismantling tank.
Four standard sizes range
from 25,000 to 100,000
gallons capacity
Lysaght Tanks are designed
to be erected on concrete
bases (provided by the pur-
chaser). Details of recom-
mended bases, using the
cement penetrant method of
construction, are available
on request.
Special materials for cement
penetrated concrete base are
available as optional extras.
Cement, sand and aggregate
are provided by the purchaser.
USES:
• Water conservation
# Irrigation head tank
# Industrial water
storage
9 Swimming pools
9 Town water supply
• Fire fighting
Overflow unif available
at slight extra cost
PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
10,000-Gallon Water Tanks {tall or squat) are available also
10.000-GALLON WATER TANK PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
14ft. 4in. dia., 10ft. 7in. high 19ft. lin. dia., 6ft. sin. high
Basic unit, £ll7 Basic unit, £93
Write for further information to:
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. in all Capital Cities or
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED, NEWCASTLE WORKS
LCI3AXC
yoga classes (starting shortly
at 3gns. for four lessons,
minimum).
Then there was eating.
Special abdominal exercises
could bring the “digestive
apparatus” under control, re-
duce weight and increase well-
being. Again there was a
special technique, very com-
plex, too complex for a short
lecture . . .
There were exercises, too, for
quickly relaxing muscles and
internal organs, thus prevent-
ing sag and excessive wear.
Terribly complex . . . those in-
terested enough . . .
Diana Fitzgerald, a grave
woman in a sort of playsuit
who has studied yoga for many
years, demonstrated some of
these exercises. As she lay on
her stomach clutching her
ankles behind her back, or
folded her legs as if they were
arms, or robed her stomach-
muscles in spectacular lumps
and knots, Sir Paul explained
what was happening inside her
and how every exercise had to
be adapted to individual cases
• —through lessons.
This matter of lessons
seemed to be of great import-
ance. Sir Paul referred to it
again and again, stressing how
useless it was to take less
than four, that the subject
was endless in its complica-
tions and subtleties, and that
observers would be barred
from the lessons for the sake
of the students.
“The special feature of Sir
Paul’s system,” says the free
pamphlet- you get at the door,
“is its adaptation to the
material and psychological con-
ditions of the West.”
J. A.
♦> ♦♦♦ *>
“Oh, Men! Oh, Women!”
Oh, Edwin Chodorov! Your
play, seen in the Imperial
Playhouse’s presentation at
Mosman Town Hall, Sydney,
might have been a lot better
if the plot had been modi-
fied to exclude (a) patches
of arid dialogue, and ( b ) comic
accent on what could be
termed an unfortunate case.
It concerns a psychoanalyst,
crazy, mixed-up, his fiancee,
previously involved with some
of the Doc.’s patients, and—
well, that’s about it.
The Imperial Playhouse
(with Robert Hatherley, Betty
Parsons and others) more than
did justice to the material.
Films
“Bachelor Party”
This (at the Plaza, Melb.) is
an American equivalent of
Noel Coward’s “Brief En-
counter,” and equally well
done with American blatancy
in full flower instead of British
understatement.
Half-a-dozen bachelors
some are married without
violating the author’s defini-
tion —decide to have a party
to celebrate the approaching
nuptials of a colleague. They
start-off at a cafe at which
there is sufficient decorum for
the congratulatory speeches
and presentation of wedding
gifts. Then, well-primed with
liquor, they proceed from one
nightclub to another, including
a bohemian arts-club, where the
girls become their inspiration.
The rest of the proceedings
are wild and woolly, and in the
upshot the young man who is
to be married rings-up his
fiancee and tells her the wed-
ding is off, and they all go
home completely deflated.
As the lamblike young man
being taken to the slaughter
or altar Don Murray turns-in
a good performance.
❖ ❖ <♦
“Wild is the Wind”
Anna Magnani gives a
memorable performance as a
second wife who marries the
husband of her dead sister and
finds herself competing with
her memory.
The husband is an Italian
wine-grower who has settled
in Nevada. His second wife
has been imported from Italy,
and Magnani portrays with
great skill her initial bewilder-
ment, her efforts to “fit in,” her
growing disillusionment at
finding herself merely “part
of the furniture,” and her
drifting into an affair, from
sheer boredom, with her hus-
band’s foster-son. A forced
happy ending robs the film of
some of its logic, but, at that,
it is drama with a punch.
At Sydney Victory.
‘‘Tales of Ugetsu”
Here is a sample of Japan-
ese screencraft which comes
close to the artistic peaks
achieved in “Gates of Help’
and “Rashomon.” It goes back
several centuries to the Bushido
knights, and a very human
drama is intermingled with
legend.
There is a village potter who
has ambitions far beyond
those of his wife ; and another
peasant who yearns to be a
knight-at-arms and so impress
his wife. Both men succeed
to a point, but their success is
short-lived and bought at the
cost of domestic happiness.
There is an atmosphere of
misty dreaminess about it all,
despite some blood-curdling
realism in a civil war. Photo-
graphed in black-and-white, in
muted light, for almost its
entire length, the film has
many beautiful shots of reed-
fringed lakes and forests.
It is acted well, and dialogue
is in Japanese with English
subtitles.
At Sydney Vogue.
*l* *X* ♦>
“I’ll Defend You,
My Love”
The fatuity of the title bears
no relation to the worth of
this Italian-made film, which
has to do with a yellow jour-
nal's desperate endeavor to
save itself from the receiver’s
hands by launching a campaign
of digging-up old scandals.


V M 0
/# REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
71 pa.. .6yrs.
1.4;C. guarantees fixed quarterly
income, free of exchange.
<Dur Auditors, L. B. Wallace &
Son, Chartered Accountants (Aus -
' .V.
tralia), have certified that the
Tangible Assets of the Group as
at 3jst May, 1958, amounted to
C 58,441,57 6.
ASSETS EXCEED
£55,000,000
PAID UP CAPITAL
£9,000,000
SHAREHOLDERS'
FUNDS
£11,500,000
For full details, see Prospectus: your copy available from Members
of Stock Exchanges, 703 Branches of A.N.Z. Bank Limited
or I.A.C. Branches.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LTD.
(Established 28 years)
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART • CANBERRA
• NEWCASTLE • WOLLONGONG • GEELONG
Underwriting Brokers:
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne,
Canberra and Sydney
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders:
The Perpetual Executors & Trustees Association
of Australia Limited
DBI
CHINESE ART
Chinese A rt, two fat volumes
in the Penguin-Pelican series
by William Willetts, comprises
an exhaustive exploration into
Chinese geography, history and
political diversions ; early man
in China; the use of jade,
bronze, lacquer and silk, as
well as stone and clay in pot-
tery and sculpture; Chinese
calligraphy and painting, which
have a close association ; and
architecture and town-planning
—the Chinese anticipated
modern European trends a
couple of thousand years ago
in their walled cities.
In pottery, painting, sculp-
ture and architecture our
Celestial brothers seem to have
had the start on us, so much
so that they astounded that
astute observer Marco Polo
by the superiority of their
culture. Then they suddenly
came to dead stop while their
Western brothers went on to
greater and greater heights of
artistic expression.
Willets makes no attempt
to explain this crystallis-
ing of Chinese culture. He
does, however, make the
observation that the Chinese
artist, from the very nature
of his materials and tools,
could not, and did not, work
from an external model. That,
I suggest, is wrong. We have
only to look at the fleshiness
of the Kuanyin in the National
Gallery, Melbourne, or at the
living line of a piece of pottery
or of a Chinese temple wall to
know that. These could only
come from the artist’s con-
templation of the livingness of
Nature.
It is true that the nature of
the Chinese artist's materials
—silk and paper and water-
color—made corrections while
working almost impossible,
and that he painted largely
from memory; but Clarice
Beckett, the Melbourne artist
who left behind her a magni-
ficent record of that city, did
that, and her memory pictures
usually turned out to be much
more like the subject than
those of her fellow-artists who
sat in front of it all day, scrub-
bing and rubbing away. Look-
ing at things was an obsession
with her, as it was with Li
Lung-mien, a celebrated horse-
painter, of whom it was said
that he spent so much time
looking at the horses of the
Imperial stud that he stood in
grave danger of being reborn
a horse.
What brought Chinese art
to a dead stop, then, was not
some strange modernist apathy
towards Nature, but lack of
the plastic oil-technique which
Van Eyck discovered and
which enabled Titian and
Velasquez, Raphael and Rem-
brandt to make their canvases
glow like rubies.
If the Chinese artist had had
the benefits of Van Eyck’s
discovery there is no reason to
suppose that Chinese art and
architecture would not have
reached the* same heights as
Western art, for the Chinese
reverence for and devotion to
art was enormous. Curiously
enough, most Chinese artists
were officials, and at least one,
the Emperor Hui-tsung, was the
reigning Son of Heaven.
M. G. S.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Prestige, Ltd.
A s one of the first of its species to
balance-off its books —its term ends
on March 31 —and a leader in the sensi-
tive knitting-industry, Prestige’s experi-
ence for the year is a pointer to what
may be expected from its rivals in the
field.
Apparently the loosening of import-
shackles (with special reference to Japan)
hasn’t caused any major upset, for
Prestige’s profits overtopped the £200,000-
mark for the first time in the 36-year-
old’s career. Turnover in the hosiery divi-
sion recoiled slightly, but the lingerie and
fabric departments more than compen-
sated, and the end-result was a consoli-
dated net profit £33,550 higher than in
the previous year.
The history of this well-managed group
makes pleasant reading. Although initial
difficulties had forced Prestige to jettison
half its capital two years after its registra-
tion in Melbourne in 1922, the business
thereafter bounded along, taking the
depression and war years in its stride. A
severe jolt in 1952 marred an otherwise
scintillating record, but despite the loss
of £65,062 registered for that term,
equity-shareholders were merely reduced
to half-rations, and recovery was rapid.
The div.-scale has never strayed long
from 10 p.c.
Over the past decade or so shareholders
have had two excellent opportunities to
pad-out their portfolios. In 1947 there
was an issue of 244,067 10s. shares —one-
for-one—at par to ord. shareholders, and
in 1951 a four-for-five bonus handout
was followed-up by a three-for-five cash
issue at a ss. premium. The 10s.
ordinaries were converted to ss. stock in
1952.
Capital as it stands now comprises
103,050 20s. 8 p.c. cumulative prefs..
375,000 20s. 5 p.c. cum. prefs., and
2,807,912 ss. stocK-unns, a louti or
■ £1,180,028:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref £478.050 £478,050 £478,050
Ord 701.978 701,978 701,978
Reserves .. .. 1,181,523 1,049,907 1,060,423
Outside interests .. 61.932 61,067 03,840
Loan . . .. 450,000 425.000 400,000
Notes .. .. —635,87 S
Overdraft .. .. 751,231 474,789 372,805
Creditors .. ~ 270,697 333.375 453,842
Tax provision .. 162,459 176,708 179,401
Final divs. .. 68,510 63,702 69,246
£4,120,470 £4,406,054 £4,415,463
Freeholds .. 713,402 899,944 892,782
Plant .. .. 1,322,561 1,124,894 1,046,143
Shares .. 70,730 47,587 55,087
Stocks .. .. 1,614,848 1,524,354 1,724,789
Debtors .. .. 383,349 642,749 665,141
Cash, bonds .. 2,196 73,013 31,521
Intangibles .. 19,384 93,513
£4,126,470 £4,406,054 £4,415,463
Included in reserves is a further charge
of £107,610, against profits for the year,
to bring the reserve for the estimated
higher cost of replacement of buildings,
plant and equipment to £114,632. Also
included in shareholders’ funds is a long-
service provision of £60,000 —£10,000 was
added in the course of the year—and net
tangible asset backing has to be adjusted
accordingly.
Otherwise the overall picture is largely
unchanged, except that creditors increased
their claim by £120,467, which was largely
offset by a reduction of £101,984 in bank
borrowings.
Depreciation charged for the year
amounted to £209,231 (1957, £183,289)
and together with the taxation provided,
£178,324 (£151,339) —comparatively high
because of the extra-statutory deprecia-
tion set aside—left net profit at £206,433,
rather more than half of which was
retained in the business:
Prestige, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.*
, : —Dividends N To Re- Re-
Mar., Loss. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.f
£ p.c. £ £ £
1952.. 65,062 8 & 5 5 p.c. = 46,762 813,612
Share premiums, £7,588 .. .. 821,100
Net addition reserves, £12,578 .. 833,678
Profit.
1958.. 8 & 5 74p.0. = 70,892 69,728 903,406
Net addition reserves, £5149 .. 908,555
1954.. 209 8 & 5 7J p.c - 70,892 92,317 1,000,872
Tax overprovided, £2513 .. .. 1,003,385
Net reduction reserves, £2918 ..1,000,467
1955.. 185.499 8 & 5 9 p.c.= 81,422 104,077 1.104,644
Loss sale assets, £7446 .. .. 1,097,098
Tax overprovided, £3229 .. .. 1,100,327
Unexplained reduction, £2963 . . 1,097,364
1956.. 599 8 & 5 10 p.c.= 98,440 84,159 1,181,623
Tax underprovided, £BOB .. .. 1,180,715
Loss sale assets, £4830 .. .. 1,175,885
From plant reserve, £183,621.. .. 992,264
Intangibles written-off, £19,384 .. 972,880
Unexplained additions, £2776 .. 975,656
1957.. 883 8 & 5 10 p.c.= 98,632 74,251 1,049,907
Loss sale assets, £8312 .. .. 1,041,595
Tax overprovided, £4070 .. .. 1,045,665
Intangibles written-ofl, £93,513 . . 952,152
Unexplained additions, £lOl4 . . 953,166
1958.. 206.433 8 & 5 10 p.c.= 99,176 107,257 1,060,423
* After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
t Subject to intangibles, now written-off.
Profit for the ordinaries was £179,439,
after deducting preference dividends total-
ling £26,994, and average ord. capital
gathered-in 25.6 p.c. for the year, com-
pared with 20.8 p.c., 22.2, 23.8, 20.6,
17.4 p.c., reading back over the previous
five years. In view of this consistency
and the substantial reserve-backing, the
ords. look pretty keenly priced at their
current market-value, 7s. 3d. Yield on
this basis is £6 18s. and net tangible
cover is a substantial 12s. Id. for each
unit.
Comprised by the . well-integrated
group is the parent, Prestige, Ltd., a
knitter of hosiery and lingerie with plants
at Melbourne and Horsham, Vic.; Prestige
Fabric Pty., which turns-out synthetics
and worsted fabrics from its factory at
Ararat, Vic.; • Dyecraft Pty., textile-
printer, -dyer and -finisher, Sunshine,
Vic.; Johnson Bros. Pty., synthetic-yarn
throwsters, Melbourne ; H. G. Foletta
and Co. Pty., the Australia-wide distribut-
ing arm ; and Prestige (N.Z.), Ltd., the
parent’s N.Z. counterpart, which seems
likely to increase its elbow-room now
that tighter fiscal measures in Maoriland
have focused attention on import substi-
tution.
More recently Johnson Bros, acquired
from the U.S. rights, technical data and
plant for the production of a new syn-
thetic under the patent name of “Banlon,”
and a newly formed subsidiary, Aus-
tralaine Fabrics Pty., will exploit other
Banlon patents. This, and other pro-
jected developments, will be financed
from existing resources.
Edwards Dunlop and Co., Ltd.
HPhe declared earnings of Edwards
Dunlop and Co. rarely stretch much
beyond div.-requirements, and last term's
small all-round improvement in turnover
and the reduction in rates of co. taxation
made little difference to the published
profit. As the annual retention .has only
exceeded £9OOO on four occasions in the
last 30 years, and the co., which currently
shows paid capital at £1,154,223, has
obviously prospered, investors might be
excused for wondering whether the div.-
rate moves in sympathy with earnings,
or vice versa.
In any case the sharemarket is inclined
to base its valuation of Edwards Dunlop
scrip on the co.’s solid reserves, both
visible and assumed, its prominent posi-
tion in the paper-trade and its long record
as a reliable div.-payer. On all these
counts the f.-p. £1 ords. show-up as a
sound holding.
Merchant and importer, Edwards
Dunlop handles paper, stationery, print-
ing-machinery and printers’ requisites.
Headquarters of the 89-year-old organisa-
tion are in Sydney and there are branches
in the other mainland capitals and at
Newcastle (N.S.W.), the co. owning free-
hold properties in all of these centres.
A U.K. offshoot acts as the parent co.’s
agent in that quarter of the globe, while
a second subsidiary, Galwey and Co.
Pty., is in business as a manufacturing-
stationer.
Since the scrip first appeared on
’Change-lists, in 1915, divs. have gone
out with unfailing regularity, the return
of share-capital rendered surplus to
immediate needs by the depression of
the early ’3o's easing the co.’s passage
through that difficult period. Cash-
issues, at premiums ranging from 10s.
to 295. a share, added £399,133 to paid
capital between 1936 and 1955, £345,999
of premiums, along with £86,835 from
revaluation reserve, being capitalised in
December, 1955, when shareholders
collected three gift-shares for every five
held. The div.-rate, which hasn’t dropped
below 10 p.c. since 1938, was cut from
15 p.c. to 10 p.c. after the bonus-issue.
Although substantial imports of paper
are still required to meet local needs,
the growing volume and diversity of
papers produced by Australian mills has
considerably lessened the co.’s dependence
on overseas suppliers, and the machinery
department appears to have benefited to
a greater extent than other sections of
the business from last year’s relaxation
of import-restrictions. A well-sustained
demand for Australian-made papers was
experienced over' the year to April 30
last, and sales of paper, stationery and
machinery were all “slightly higher” than
the comparable figures for the preceding
term, when a small slip in overall sales
was reported.
Representing 10.3 p.c. on paid capital,
compared with 10.2 p.c. in 1956-57, the
parent’s earnings advanced by only £1499


over the year, the £119,114 net profit,
calculated after providing £28,722 (up
£10,224) for depreciation and an unspeci-
fied amount for taxation, barely covering
the unchanged 10 p.c. div. Earnings of
subsidiaries are included only to the extent
of divs. actually received:
To Re- Re-
Apr., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Share premiums, ete.. £50,085 .. 996,476
1952.. 84,229 124 p.e. = 72,020 12.209 1,008,685
1953.. 83,632 124 „ „ 75,145 8,487 1,017,172
From inner reserves, ete, £28,977 .. 1,046,149
Share premiums, £60,115 .. .. 1,106,264
1954.. 114,173 15 p.c. = 90,174 23,999 1,130,263
1955.. 120,162 15 „ „ 108,208 11,954 1,142,217
Assets revalued, £163,200 .. .. 1,305,417
Reserves capitalised, £432,834 .. 872,583
1956.. 117,397 10 p.c. = 113,619 3,778 876,361
Assets revalued, £IOO,OOO . . . . 976.361
1957.. 117,615 10 p.c. = 115,423 2,192 978,553
Provision long-service leave, £30,000 948,553
Profit sale freeholds, ete. £12.978 .. 961,531
1958.. 119,114 10 p.c. = 115,422 3,692 965,223
The unappropriated profits of previous
years were drawn-on to the tune of
£30,000 to strengthen an existing pro-
vision for long-service leave, and despite
capital profits, etc., of a net £12,978,
visible reserves fell by £13,330.
Early last term the co. bought a large
six-story building in Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, from Henry Berry and Co. (Aus-
tralasia), Ltd. —at a price believed to be
in the vicinity of £2oo,ooo—and later
acquired an additional warehouse at
Perth and another at Canberra, the sale
of premises in Melbourne and Adelaide
leaving the net addition to freeholds
(shown at “less than 1955 valuation,”
plus subsequent cost) at £157,768. A
further £38,073 (net) was put into plant,
vehicles, etc. To assist in financing the
capital-outlay and a £60,225 investment
in subsidiaries, the parent ran-up an-
overdraft of £78,986 and cut holdings
of cash, etc., by £27,038, finishing the
term with £103.847 still to pay on the
Melbourne purchase.
Book-debts (up £132,673) figure as the
largest single item in the balance-sheet,
and, as an increasing proportion of
machinery sales is being made under
hire-purchase agreements, shareholders
were invited, last year, to deposit money
on call with the co. to facilitate the
expansion of this profitable class of
business, deposits on call coming into
the accounts for the first time at
£118,165:
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £1,154,223 £1,154,223 £1.154.223
Reserves .. .. 876,361 978,553 965,223
Notes .. ~ 304,875 305,609 305,609
Mortgage .. .. -—■ 103,847
Overdraft .. .. 154,066 78,986
Creditors, etc.* .. 443,762 416,849 434,794
Deposits . . . . —r- 118,165
Due to subsids. .. 66,795 71,587 60,391
Tax provision .. 187.119 172,660 134,519
Final div. .. 28,856 28,856 28,855
£3,216,057 £3,128,337 £3,384,612
Land, buildings . . 444,807 458,260 616,028
Plant, vehicles .. lOO,OOO 138,073
Stocks . . . . 1,195,530 1,012,737 907,311
Shares subsids. ~ 84,346 84,346 144,571
Debtors .. .. 1,457,173 1,403.461 1,536,134
Cash, bonds 34,201 69,533 42.495
£3,216,057 £3,128,337 £3,384,612
* Including provisions, etc.
Including the balance owing on the
Melbourne property with current
liabilities, working-capital fell by
£269,396, to a comfortable £1,526,383,
over the year, provisions for long-service
leave, etc., appearing with the amount
against creditors.
A general weakening in demand has
been reported in world paper-markets
over the last couple of years, but, with
the exception of newsprint. Australian
consumption of paper has tended to rise,
and long-term pointers suggest that the
upward trend is likely to continue.
At 41s. 6d. Edwards Dunlop’s f.-p. £1
ords. would return £4 16s. sd. from
a 10 p.c. distribution, net tangibles
(parents’ accounts only) .amounting to
365. 6d. a share.
Kinnears Ropes (Australia), Ltd.
Dew Australian concerns can hope to
A be entirely untouched by conse-
quences of the recent drought and the
steep fall in farm incomes, the Victorian
rope- and twine-manufacturer, Kinnears
Ropes (Australia), Ltd., blaming dry
seasonal conditions, together with an
easing of import-restrictions, for a sub-
stantial drop in earnings last term.
A promising four-year-old, Kinnears
Ropes is a relative newcomer to Stock
Exchange lists, but through its principal
operating-subsidiary, Geo. Kinnear and
Sons Pty., the co. controls a manufac-
turing business established in Melbourne
over 85 years ago. Products include
manila, sisal and coir ropes, binder, baler
and bag-sewing twines (the “harvest-
twines”) and numerous other threads,
yarns and twines manufactured from
jute, hemp, flax and cotton. Nylon ropes
were first turned-out several years ago,
and the co. is currently investigating the
further use of synthetic fibres in its own
and allied fields.
A second subsidiary, B. D. Mops and
Buffs Pty., was formed in 1956 to take-
over an existing business concerned with
the manufacture of industrial mops and
buffs from raw materials supplied, in the
main, by Geo. Kinnear and Sons.
The parent co. has a paid capital of
£903,000 in f.-p. 10s. ords., the original
shareholders offering 405,720 shares to
the public, at par, in April, 1954. Kicking-
off with a big load of intangibles, repre-
senting the difference between the cost
and par values of scrip in the principal
subsidiary, the parent co. has kept divs.
well within the group’s earning-power,
the maiden (8 p.c.) div. in 1954 being
followed by well-covered 9 p.c. distribu-
tions in each of the last four years.
Earnings reached a peak of £187,249 in
1956-57, but poor harvests, particularly
of meadow-hay, greatly reduced sales of
harvest-twines last term (to February 28
for the subsidiaries), while increases in
import-quotas gave U.K. competitors an
opportunity to recapture some of the
trade in flax-canvas-yarns lost to Aus-
tralian spinners in previous years. Russian
influence has now depressed world prices
of flax below the level at which the
Australian flax-bounty scheme may
operate, and, as flax-production is a
losing proposition under these circum-
stances, the Flax Commission is in the
process of winding-up its affairs.
An improved output per man-hour,
backed by a reduction in manufacturing-
overheads, provided some slight compen-
sation for the sharp fall in turnover ; but,
with earnings of B. D. Mops and Buffs
“somewhat lower than anticipated,” the
group’s pre-tax profit slumped from
£313,749 to £222,032, after allowing
£52,531 (up £16,024) for depreciation.
Thanks to a considerably lighter provi-
sion for taxation (down £43,300 at
£83,200) the drop in net earnings was less
severe, but, at £138,832, group-profit was
still £48,417 below the record figure
written in the previous term:
Parent and Subsidiary.
To Re- Re-
June Profit. , Dividend •, serves. serves.
30 £ £ £ £
1954.. 111,111 8 p.c. = 72,240 38,871 91,785
Staff fund, £25,000 ~ .. .. 60,785
1955.. 165,957 9 p.e. = 81,270 84,687 151,472
Tax overprovided, £2746 .. .. 154,218
1950.. 167,419 9 p.c. = 81,270 86,149 240,367
Capital profit,, £1251 .. .. .. 241,618
Added intangibles, £2lOB .. .. 239,510
Tax overprovided, £437 . . . . 239,947
1957.. 187,249 9 p.c. = .8.1,270 105,979 345,926
Tax overprovided, £9508 . . . . 355,434
Preliminary expenses, etc., w/off, £ll4 355,320
1958. . ISS.S32 9 p.c. = 81,270 57,562 412,882
* After deducting intangibles, £688,000 at
June 30, 1958.
In terms of paid capital, unchanged since
formation, the smaller showing repre-
sented a return of £5.3 p.c., as against
20.7, 18.5, 18.2 and 12.3 p.c. back to
1954, over 40 p.c. of the profit remaining
in the business after payment of a 9 p.c.
div.
Although demand for binder- and
baler-twine is expected to pick-up towards
the end of the calendar-year, immediate
prospects for a speedy recovery in earn-
ings aren’t particularly bright. However,
the current term promises to be a less
difficult one than the last.
Financially the group is in a strong
position, current assets are in the
accounts at over twice outside liabilities
and provisions, which, in turn, amount
to no more than ss. 4d. for each £ of
shareholders’ funds.
Vacant possession was recently
obtained of a freehold site in Adelaide,
where the co. plans to erect a warehouse
“at an early date,” the purchase of a
three-story building in the inner-Sydney
suburb of Pyrmont accounting for a large
part of the £54,367 added last term to
the book-value of freeholds. Freehold
property was revalued in 1954:
Oonsoludated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £903,000 £903,000 £903,000
Reserves .. . . 240,367 345,926 412,882
Outside interests . . 50 50 50
Overdraft .. .. 12,970 22,090
Creditors, etc. . . 234,065 153.258 144,350
Staff fund .. 25,000 25,000 19,343
Tax prov ision .. 109.500 126,500 83,200
Filial divs. .. 45.150 45,150 45,150
Inter-eo. balances.. 36,120 36,120 36,120
£1,593,252 £1,647,974 £1,666,185
Freehold .. .. 560,012 572,594 620,961
Plant, etc. .. 280,345 286,100 271,317
Investments .. 52.029 52,358 52,358
Stock .. .. 451,383 477,901 451.632
Debtors, etc. .. 248.413 257,986 233,137
Cash, bonds .. 1,070 1,035 780
£1,593,252 £1,647,974 £1,666,185
The lower turnover left book-debts down
by £24,849, but there was little movement
in stocks (up £3731), an additional £9120
from the bank lifting the overdraft to a
modest £22,090.
Consolidated accounts show a net
tangible cover of 14s. 7d. for each f.-p.
10s. ord., the scrip, which fetched
around 18s. 6d. a year ago, selling
recently at 14s. 6d. to return £6 4s. Id.
p.c. from a 9 p.c. distribution.


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . HI T lIK
WEARS A
NEO-
RAKKERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEC - BAR-
Ri.RE acts like
a hand wh“n
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, control
your hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced bv
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by ail who
have tried it.
Write today for Free Literature
Rarrere Distribution Company
Dept. 3t, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
L
m
§
r
Every professional
man owes it to him-
self and his family to
enquire about “Table
32.”
INCOME
PROTECTION
for
Professional
Men
PERSONAL
ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS
INSURANCE
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD. (Inc. in Qld., 1895)
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
Brooklands ( Holdings )
'T'ke machine-like profit-
winner, Brooklands, slipped
a cog last term, and earnings
backpedalled by a surprising
22 p.c., if a tax-overprovision
of £5385 is credited back to
the preceding term. In Vic-
toria, reports chairman M.
Shmilh, slightly higher sales
were more than offset by an
inverse trend in profit-margins,
and the general outcome was
w'orsened by the drought-
desiccated turnover figures of
the N.S.W. subsidiary’s indus-
trial section.
This doesn’t seem to have
been the whole story, however,
for over the past few years
spare-parts distributor Brook-
lands has been busy cutting
new paths to the motorist's
pocket, and sales have neces-
sarily limped along behind
operating and establishment
costs. Most of the new out-
lay has been absorbed by the
fast-growing North Melbourne
subsidiary, Starting Lighting
Ignition Pty., which has lately
come by the sole Victorian
franchise for Siemens’ auto-
mobile bulbs, supplementing
valuable franchises already
held in the auto-electric field
from the two well-known U.K.
firms, Joseph Lucas Industries
and S. Smith and Sons.
The offensive was maintained
in N.S.W., where a branch was
opened at Tamworth last
January, and since the close of
accounts the Sydney off-
shoot, Brooklands Accessories
(N.S.W.) Pty., has acquired a
useful Ford agency.
The group consists of two
operating subsidiaries in Mel-
bourne. one in Sydney, with
six branches in provincial Vic-
toria and two in N.S.W.
In the opening months of the
current financial year a general
recovery in the two States in
which the group operates
could presage a refattening of
the ordinary dividend, tailored
last term to match the reduced
earning-rate.
Not that ord.-share partici-
pants in this fertile enterprise
have had much to complain
about. Despite a2} p.c. mark-
down, last term's very-well-
covered 124- p.c. div. would
still be equal to 184 P-c. on
ord. 'capital as it stood before
the present holding co. took-
up the baton from the former
parent, Brooklands Acces-
sories, of Melbourne, in 1955,
following a share-exchange of
six ss. ords. for each 20s. of
scrip held.
The issue of £25,000 of
7 p.c. cumulative prefs. granted
a restricted foothold to the
public in 1938, 15 years after
the setting-up of the Mel-
bourne proprietary. After the
war, however, ordinaries
proved trumps, and tricks
taken include a one-for-two
par issue in 1946 ; a one-for-
three at 17s. 6d. premium in
1948 ; a one-for-four preceded
a one-for-two, both at a 10s.
premium in 1950 ; and a one-
for-four bonus handout in
1951, financed from a capitali-
sation of reserves, was fol-
lowed by a one-for-two issue
at par in 1954. Then came the
reconstruction, for the first
time chopping - back the
steadily rising div.-rate, which
has averaged 15 p.c. since
1950.
Last year’s consolidated
result was struck after pro-
viding £59,000 (£86,200 in
1957) for company-tax and
£16,380 (£18,347) for deprecia-
tion and amortisation. The
net profit, £100,857, equals
20 p.c. on ord. capital com-
pared with tax-adjusted rates
of 24.3 p.c., 1956, 25.9 p.c,
1957:
Brooklands Accessories and
Subsidiaries.
, Dividends
Pref. Re-
April, Profit. 7 p.c. / Old. serves.*
£ £ £ £.
Tax overprovided, etc., £1521 296,790
1953- 1750 174 38,478 368,349
Tax overprovided, £21,966. . 390,315
1954- 1750 174 38,478 467,943
Profit sale assets, £941 . . 468,884
Tax overprovided, £159 . . 469,043
Unexplained reduction, £1978 467,065
1955..128,356 1750 174 54,969 538,702
Brooklands (Holdings), Ltd., and
SUB SIDS ARIES.
Less “goodwill,” etc., on re-
organisation, £164,899 .. 373,803
Profit sale assets, £3292 .. 377,095
Tax overprovided, etc., £270 377,365
Preliminary expenses w/otf,
£4628 372,737
1956-123,891 1750 15 74,208 420.670
Profit sale assets, £1753 . . 422,423
Tax underprovided, £1643.. 420,780
To staff fund, £15,000 . . 405,780
1957. .124,018 1750 15 74,208 453,840
Profit sale assets, £367 . . 454,207
Tax overprovided, £5885 . . 459,597
1958-100,857 1750 124 61,840 496,859
“After deducting intangibles, £187,038
at 30/4/’57.
Dividends sanctioned totalled
£63,590, leaving £37,267 for a
reserve-kitty which still shows
possibilities. Net tangible
assets work-out at just over
10s. for each ss. ord.
At end-of-term, April 30,
Brooklands was able to show
48s. of more-or-less liquid
assets for each £ currently
owed, with working-capital
£7633 stronger at £596,519.
The total outside debt fell
slightly, but, with a further
loan of £63,776, the bank now
figures as a major creditor.
Freeholds are at cost, plus a
surplus of £13,335 added fol-
lowing the revaluation which
preceded the 1951 bonus:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1957. 1958.
Pref £25,000 £25,000
Ord 494,719 494,719
Reserves.. .. 409,740 512,759
Mortgage .. 73,750 71,250
Overdraft .. 41,007 104,783
Creditors, etc. .. 203.908 189,247
Staff fund .. 30,000 30,000
Tax provision . . 139,744 71,000
Final divs. .. 50,347 37,979
£1,528,215 £1,536,737
Freeholds . . 337,375 364,026
Leaseholds .. 13,213 12,733
Plant and fittings 122.835 129,550
Stocks . . . . 624,776 586.853
Debtors .. 412,652 426,110
Cash .. . . 1,464 1,565
Goodwill .. 15,900 15,900
£1,528,215 £1,536,737
Last week Melbourne ’Change
had sellers asking 11s. for
the f.-p. ords. Yield is 5.7 p.c.
from a continued 12| p.c.
dividend, or possibly 6.8 p.c. if
the present upswing enables
the board to revert to a 15 p.c.
scale.
Swans, Ltd. (Sydney)
A fter a small slip in the
1956-57 term, the net earn-
ings of Swans, Ltd., jumped
by almost 15 p.c. last term, the
four branches of this Sydney-
based specialist in builders’
hardware being credited, by the
board, with bringing in the bulk
of the record profit. There
was, however, no return to the
\2j p.c. div.-rate, dropped,
rather unexpectedly, in 1956, in
favor of a 10 p.c. distribution.
The branch-stores, located in
the Sydney suburbs of Hurst-
ville, and Chats-
wood and in the industrial
centre of Wollongong, on the
N.S.W. South Coast, all serve
areas enjoying a high level of
homebuilding - activity, the
board coming to the not alto-
gether surprising conclusion
that expansion into areas such
as these—as they develop—is
essential to the continued pro-
gress of the co. Swans has
already expanded, quite rapidly,
over the last few years, the
Wollongong outlet and a bulk-
store at Mascot (Sydney) being
opened in the 1955 term and
the Chatswood branch a year
or so later, although the
modern showroom and ware-
house at Chatswood wasn’t
completed until late last term.
Shareholders have put up
most of the funds required by
these developments, and paid
capital, raised to £326,812 by
a one-for-two bonus in 1951,
will reach £729,842 on com-
pletion of last term’s five-for-
-18 par issue—the third cash
issue in five years.
A large proportion of these
additional funds has gone into
fixed assets, with little immedi-
ate benefit to revenue, so that
earnings have advanced at a
considerably slower rate than
paid capital, the earning-rate on


Positions Vacant
SINGAPORE
POLYTECHNIC
Principal: D. J. Williams, M.A.,
B.Sc., F.R.l.C.
The Board of Governors of
Singapore Polytechnic invite appli-
cations for the following full-time
posts: —
ASSISTANT LECTURER (GRADE
II) MECHANICAL/ELECTRICAL.
Qualifications: Higher National
Certificate or a degree in Mechani-
cal or Electrical Engineering;
teaching and/or industrial experi-
ence desirable.
Salary Scales (incorporating all
allowances): —
M$l,000-M$50-M$l,350 per month.
ASSISTANT LECTURER
(GRADE III) MOTOR VEHICLE
MECHANICS.
Qualifications: Motor Vehicle
Technicians Certificate of City and
Guilds, or equivalent; good indus-
trial experience essential; teaching
experience desirable.
Salary Scales (incorporating all
allowances): —
M$l,200-M$50-M$ 1,550 per month.
(One Malayan Dollar — 2/4
sterling.)
CONDITIONS OF
APPOINTMENT
Appointments of overseas persons
will be on contract for three years.
Favourable Endowment Insurance
Scheme; or arrangements to con-
tinue F.S.S.U. policy will be con-
sidered. Accommodation, with
heavy furniture, at a rental of
MS120 per month; free medical
attention; free passages for over-
seas member of staff, wife and up
to 3 children under 18, on first
appointment, and completion of
service; home leave at the rate
of 60 days per year's service to be
taken at the end of contract.
Application forms available
from: —
The Principal,
Singapore Polytechnic,
P.O. Box 2023,
Singapore.
The two forms should be returned
as soon as possible.
average ord. capital falling
from 23.5 p.c. in 1954 to 20.2
p.c., 16.8 p.c. and 14 p.c. over
the three years to 1957, before
recovering last term, to a
shade over 16 p.c.
The 59-year-old co. first
ventured into the suburbs
(head-office is in Sydney’s Eliza-
beth Street) in 1935 with the
opening of the Parramatta and
Hurstville britches.
Turnover for the year to.
May 31 last isn’t revealed in
the accounts, but, judging from
balance-sheet movements and
the £11,610 added to net profit,
business was brisk and expenses
a little less troublesome than
in the preceding term. Written
after allowing £6712 (down
£4173) for depreciation and an
undisclosed amount for taxa-
tion, the £90,620 profit cleared
the ord. and pref. divs. by
£32,633:
f Dividends Re-
May, Profit. Pref.Ord. Total. serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1953.. 68.328 6 39,226 261,600
1954.. 72.442 6 12* 39,227 234.815
1955.. 80,125 6 12* 48,642 266.298
Share-premiums, £49,839.. 316,137
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. 306,137
1956.. 82.797 6 10 49,862 339,072
1957.. 79.010 6 10 56,714 361,363
1958.. 90,620 6 10 57,987 394,001
When the contribs. are fully-
paid (the final call of ss. a
share is due on September 1
next), unchanged pref. and ord.
div.-rates would call for
£71,984, or £18,636 less than
last term’s showing and
£11,154 less than the average
profit for the last four years.
The £104,882 of new capital
gathered in during the year
easily covered the net expendi-
ture on fixed assets (£44,902)
and left finances comfortably
liquid:
Paid capital— 1957. 1958.
Pref £25,000 £25,000
Ord 552,144 657,026
Reserves .. 361,368 394,001
Creditors .. 260,201 355,872
Tax provision .’. 62,658 82,126
Final div. .. 28,357 29,630
£1,289,728 £1,543,655
Freeholds, plant,
etc 363,667 408,569
Stocks . . . . 571,238 665,000
Debtors .. .. 322,467 414,685
Cash and invest-
ments .. .. 32,356 55,401
£1,289,728 £1,543,655
Funds provided, mainly, by the
share-issue, retained earnings
and the additional £95,671
owing to creditors enabled the
co. to carry the heavier stocks
(up £93,762) and book-debts
(up £92,218) that go with a
rising turnover and, at the
same time, finish the year WLtn
holdings of cash, etc., £32,045
stronger at £55,401.
In the last financial year
work was commenced,
throughout Australia, on the
construction of 72,905 houses
and flats, 3452 more than in
the previous year, but an even
greater number of dwellings
(74,333, up 5895) was com-
pleted, leaving approximately
1430 fewer (54,431) under con-
struction at June 30 last. How-
ever, commencements in the
final quarter of the year were
566 (houses and flats) higher
than those in the correspond-
ing quarter of 1957, and claims
that some additional finance
will be available for home-
builders in the current year,
coupled with the quieter tempo
of commercial building, sug-
gest the maintenance, at least,
of the present improved level of
output, a situation from which
Swans would, no doubt, benefit.
Including uncalled capital,
Swan’s £1 ords. were supported
by net tangibles of 31s. 2d. at
May 31 last, the f.-p.’s return-
ing an effective £5 17s. Bd. p.c.
from a 10 p.c. div. at 355. cum
div. The contribs. paid to 15s.
and carrying a div. of 2d.,
sold last week at 28s. 3d.
Santos, Ltd.
favorite, at the
moment, in the speculative
oil market, Santos f.-p. 2s. 6d.
ords. fetched as much as 11s.
earlier this month and last
week were selling at 9s. Bd., as
against 4s. 9d. at the beginning
of July.
The contract between Santos
and Deihi-Taylor Oil Corp.,
of U.S.A.—a working-partner
with at least three-million
dollars to spend—is among the
main reasons for the renewed
interest in the co.’s scrip, but
since announcing the comple-
tion of negotiations last May
Santos has given little pub-
licity to the actual terms of
the agreement, leaving it to
South Australian Premier Sir
Thomas Playford to provide
investors with some of the
interesting and important
details.
According to the Premier,
the two cos. will “checker-
board” the Santos concessions
and each hold, individually,
alternate squares of approxi-
mately 940 acres. Deihi-
Taylor, through an Australian
offshoot, Delhi Australian
Petroleum, Ltd., will, at no
expense to Santos, put down
a stratgraphic well at Cor-
dillo Downs, on the S.A.-
Queensland border. The bore,
which will be taken to a depth
of 14,000 ft.,. will be among the
several drilling-projects to par-
ticipate in the Federal Gov-,
ernment’s current £500,000 oil-
exploration subsidy, but Deihi-
Taylor retains the right “to
pull-out if the results of the
hole prove that the geology is
hopeless.” Sections of the area
may be farmed-out to other cos.
Santos will have a 5 p.c.
and the S.A. Government a 10
p.c. interest in any oil pro-
duced on the Delhi squares,
and, in this event, Santos may
sink its own well in an adja-
cent square. What rights, if
any, that Delhi may have in
oil found on Santos squares
isn’t made clear in official
statements.
One of the pleasing aspects
of the scheme, from the Santos
shareholders’ point of view, is
that there is no need, at this
stage, for the local co. to find
additional capital, and the
sharemarket, in accepting the
diminution of Santos interests
in the concession areas,
apparently remembers that Mr.
Gulbenkian made a handy pile
out of 5 p.c. propositions.
Coffs Harbor Rutile, N.L.
An unidentified “overseas
organisation'’ has informed
the board of Coffs Harbor
Rutile, N.L., that, in certain
circumstances, it may be pre-
pared to offer Is. 6d. for each
of the 1,270,500 ss. contribs.
(paid to 35.) in that co.
If a sufficient number of
Coffs Harbor shareholders is
prepared to sell at this price,
regarded as acceptable by the
board in view of the depressed
state of the rutile market and
the uncertainty surrounding
future demand, the prospective
purchaser will undertake
further investigations of the
co.’s property and finances to
determine whether or not to
make a firm offer.
Bids for the scrip rose from
Bd. to Is. 3d. last week, the
shares selling at Is. on Friday.
Coffs Harbor recently dis-
closed that it had ceased pro-
duction at Coffs Harbor
(N.S.W.) as, on completion of
existing contracts, operations in
the area “could only be carried
on at a loss.” An option has
been obtained from Eastern
Titanium Corp. Pty. over an
application for areas in the
Newcastle district, where, it is
claimed, savings in freight
charges (amounting to £8 per
ton on rutile) would “permit
zircon to be sold on the current
market and, with lower power-
charges, etc., enable the co. to
operate “as one of the lowest-
cost producers” in the beach-
mining industry. It is expected
that funds in hand and the
proceeds from shipments yet to
be made under existing con-
tracts would be sufficient to
finance the transfer.
Over the 11 months to June
30 last Coffs Harbor recovered
3670 tons rutile and 555 tons
zircon. The co. shipped 2585
tons rutile and at the end of
year held 1085 tons in store
awaiting shipment. Over 1500
tons are required to be shipped
by December 31 next and 750
tons in 1959.
After taking stocks info
account at net contract-value
(£55,243), allowing £24,921
for amortisation and depreci-
ation and providing for £2826
for taxation, net profit for the
year was £14,817, the loss of the
previous year reducing the
credit in the p.-and-l. appropri-
ation account to £7326. In-
tangibles are shown at £10,058.
At June 30 current assets
(£77,704) exceeded liabilities by
£56,503 (about 104 d. a share),
fixed assets, less provisions,
amounting to £99,684 and
mining-properties, etc. (cost), to
£30,542.


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2J~
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, August 12.
'T'he Government has modi-
fied its excess-retention
tax-plan. It now proposes to
allow companies to retain 60
per cent, of their net profit
after income- and social-
security tax, instead of 50 per
cent. This is, of course, in
addition to normal deprecia-
tion allowances. Any part of
the remaining 40 p.c. not dis-
tributed in dividends will be
subject to tax at the rate of
7s. in the £.
The change seems likely to
relieve from excess-retention
liability most of the companies
whose shares are regularly
traded on the Stock Exchange.
Nevertheless, the tax remains
thoroughly bad in principle.
The president of the Auck-
land Chamber of Commerce
described the amendment as
“merely fiddling.” The cham-
ber, he said, still held to its
view that the tax should be
abandoned till a thorough in-
vestigation had been made. He
expressed the opinion that it
would inevitably cause injus-
tice, discourage expansion and
jeopardise full employment.
The president of the N.Z.
Manufacturers’ Federation said
there could be no compromise.
The tax was bad and should
go altogether.
Double-taxation Still
The tax bill provides that,
with some reservations, new
companies will be exempt for
six years. Companies with
certain commitments at the
date of the Budget may be
given relief for six years. If a
company becomes liable for
tax in one year, but in any one
of six succeeding years de-
clares dividends in excess of
the amount required to avoid
the tax, this extra payment may
be carried back to reduce the
earlier tax.
Overseas companies trading
in N.Z. through a branch will
be exempt. So will N.Z. sub-
sidiaries of overseas companies.
The retention-tax will first
apply to company-income de-
rived during the year to March
31 last or the company’s
accounting year corresponding
with that year. However, com-
panies which have retained
more than 60 p.c. of their net
profit will be allowed to make
extra dividend payments
within 10 months of the end
of the year in order to avoid
tax-liability.
The Government has made
no attempt to modify its pro-
posals for the extortionate and
inequitable double-taxation of
company-earnings in the hands
of both the company and the
shareholder. If present pro-
posals are forced through,
maximum company-tax will be
10s. in the £, maximum divi-
dend-tax 7s. in the £.
Quite apart from dividend-
taxes, New Zealanders are
being solidly slugged with
income- and social-security
tax. Australians who have
been grumbling about their
Budget might find some sort
of consolation in the know-
ledge that they are compara-
tively well-off.
A New Zealander on £l5OO
(N.Z.) a year, with three
children, pays £226 17s. 6d. in
income- and social-security tax
and receives £ll7 in child-
benefit.
Borrowing
N.Z., which has already this
year borrowed £19.5 million
in London and £8 million
(N.Z.) in Australia, is now re-
ported to be negotiating for a
substantial loan in the United
States, using its gold reserves
as security.
The Prime Minister, Mr.
Nash, said this week that it
would be necessary to borrow
up to £6O million this year.
Even then the country might
be £lO million to £2O million
short of overseas expenditure
incurred.
It seemed that the balance-
of-payments this year would
be between £55 million and
£75 million on the wrong side,
said Mr. Nash. Last year N.Z.
spent £32 million more than
it earned, so that it might be
about £lOO million worse-off
at the end of 1958 than at the
end of 1956.
The only way out was to
borrow overseas. Some borrow-
ing would be done against
N.Z.’s gold. There was £6
million of gold, and he thought
it might be worth £l2 million.
It would be a disaster to let it
go, but it could be used as
security for borrowing.
The urgent need for large-
scale borrowing emphasises
once again the desirability of
joining the World Bank, but
that course is not likely to be
taken by the Government,
except, perhaps, as a last
resort.
Shortage of Goods
The Reserve Bank in its
annual report says there is no
alternative to a marked reduc-
tion in availability of goods
unless there is a pronounced
recovery in export markets or
large external borrowing.
“The real income of N.Z.
has fallen —something New
Zealanders find it hard to
accept after several booming
years,” the bank says. It points
out that scope for reducing
the volume of imports without
endangering essential produc-
tion and full employment is
very small, as only about 20
per cent, of imports are con-
sumer goods. The possibility
of replacing former imports
with locally manufactured
goods is limited by manpower
(especially skilled workers),
productive-capacity, equipment
and the fact that much of the
needed raw materials, partly
finished goods and accessories
has to be imported.
“One possible source of
temporary relief in the present
situation lies in external
borrowing,” the bank says. “It
is not a policy to be adopted
lightly, especially during
periods of high lending-rates.
Even so, overseas borrowing
can be justified now for
balance-of-payments reasons
and to help maintain supplies
of materials and equipment
needed to sustain full employ-
ment.” The bank strongly
urges re-examination of the
question of N.Z.’s joining the
I.M.F. and World Bank.
Spirits Low
With spirits now virtually
an “under-the-counter” line,
thirsty New Zealanders are
keenly interested in plans for
the local production of gin.
English distilleries and major
N.Z. breweries will, it is under-
stood, be shareholders in a new
company to be formed to pro-
duce the raw spirit in bulk.
The manufacture will be com-
pleted by various firms accord-
ing to their own processes, and
the gin will be sold under well-
known English brand-names.
Though the Government will
not have a financial interest in
the project, it is expected to
have- a say in management
through a nominated director.
At present N.Z. drinks
about 250,000 gallons of gin
a year, but the new co.’s plant
will probably be geared for an
ultimate production of about
double that amount. With other
spirits in short supply, demand
for gin will increase.
New Industries
Partly as a result of import-
control, several overseas com-
panies have recently announced
their intention of commencing
manufacturing operations in
N.Z.
Formica, Ltd., a subsidiary of
Thos. De La Rue and Co., Ltd.,
London, plans to open a factory
to produce laminated plastic.
The Hills Industries group,
Adelaide, will establish an
alloy-foundry and steel-fabrica-
tion plant as well as a factory
for the final assembly of its
products.
Birmingham Sound Repro-
ducers, Ltd., a British firm
which produces mechanisms
for record-players and gramo-
phones, is considering spending
£lOO,OOO on a factory in Auck-
land.
N.Z. Breweries, Ltd.
The doubling of the beer-
duty and the subsequent
dispute about retail prices have
caused some decline in beer
sales. But N.Z. Breweries’
latest accounts indicate that the
company has little need to
worry about a setback which is,
after all, unlikely to be more
than temporary.
Consolidated net operating
profit of the group, including
only minor outside interests,
was a modest £6802 up at
£333.263, but that was after
provision of £222,628 more for
depreciation at £700,148 and
£68,281 more for tax at
£668,056. The claimed’ net
profit is increased to
£405,947 by £72,684 of surplus
tax provision from previous
years, produced out of the hat
as if by magic. Of this profit
£396,989 is attributable to the
parent company. The 84 p.c.
dividend takes £193,288.
The directors repeat last
year’s statement that the depre-
ciation provision is “prudent
but not excessive.”
Paid capital of £2.274,015
is backed by reserves of
£3,718,819. The coming scrip-
issue of one-for-two will
increase capital to £3,411,023
and reduce reserves to
£2,581,812.
The balance-sheet shows a
good liquid position, particu-
larly in view of the fact that
the company is nearing the
end of a period of very heavy
capital - expenditure. The
modernisation programme now
nearly completed should result
in increasingly economical
operation to the ultimate benefit
of shareholders.


The Iee Wind
By R. S. PORTEOUS
Johnny Starr, the young
assistant district - officer,
threw his cards down in
obvious disgust. “Just
can’t do a thing right tonight,”
he declared.
McAlpine, the surveyor,
growled, “You can’t play
against luck, especially the sort
of luck that big pirate has been
sitting behind.”
Grinning broadly as he raked
in the stakes and added them
to his already imposing stack
of chips Rusty Martin sneered,
“Maybe it’s just that you
blokes can’t play poker.”
Since he had been winning
consistently all evening the big
happy-go-lucky schooner-owner
could afford to laugh at the
discomfiture of his opponents.
Nevertheless, each of them
would have admitted that, had
the positions been reversed,
Rusty’s lined crag of a face
would have been just as creased
with mirth. Win or lose, it
was all one to him. The game,
the company and the drinks
were all that mattered. Apart
from his schooner he never
seemed to take anything
seriously.
“Bad luck or bad play, we’ll
put it to the test.”
Starr stood up, walked
solemnly around his chair and
sat down again.
The doctor, who took his
poker seriously, frowned his
disapproval. “Don’t tell me
you believe that mumbo-jumbo
is really going to do you any
good!” he growled.
“No.” To cover his embar-
rassment Starr lit a cigarette
and inhaled deeply. “Not
when I’m here in Madang with
you blokes to talk to and a
bottle of beer within reach.”
He tapped the almost non-
existent ash into the ashtray.
“But there have been times
when I’ve wondered. Out on
a long patrol, when a few
bouts of fever have lowered
your resistance and clouded
your judgment, and you’ve had
no one but kanakas to talk to
for weeks on end, you find
yourself wondering, especially
when you come up against
some of these old native
sorcerers.”
A flush spread over his
young face and he shrugged
the matter off awkwardly.
“And you a kiap!” Rusty
declared in mock reproof. “A
bloke that puts kanakas in
jail for sorcery! . . . Your
deal, Doc. We’d better make
this a jackpot for the last
hand. I’m sailin’ at midnight
and I’ve got Johnny Starr and
his police boys booked as
passengers.”
To the amusement of Me-
Alpine and Rusty and the
stern disapproval of the doctor,
Starr won the ' jackpot after
some spirited bidding that did
much to recoup his losses.
“It just shows, Doc.,” Rusty
laughed as he downed the final
drink.
“Shows what?”
“Blowed if I know. Could
be that Johnny’s picked up a
few useful hints from one of
his old sorcerer cobbers.”
Rusty stood up, his great
bulk dwarfing the others.
“Come on, Johnny. Time we
were getting aboard.”
Standing aft beside Rusty as
the Islander nosed her way
out of the harbor Starr
remarked, “A pretty thick
night, Rusty.”
Rusty spun the wheel a few
spokes and peered out to star-
board where the black
shadows of the mangroves
merged into the equally black
water. Low clouds covered the
sky, cutting off every vestige
of starlight, and there was not
a breath of wind. “Like the
inside of a bloody black cat,”
he agreed cheerfully.
“Another superstition,” Starr
said. And after a while: “The
doc. holds pretty strong views
on the matter, doesn’t he?”
“You oughta introduce him
to one of yer old sorcerers.”
Rusty chuckled at the idea. “I
wouldn’t mind bein’ there when
it comes off.”
“I’ve got a case to investigate
on Bonabon tomorrow,” Starr
told him. “The mission
teacher has lodged a complaint
against an old man. Reckons
he’s undermining his efforts to
convert the heathen.”
“Pitankassi?”
“Yes, that’s the chap. You
know him?”
“Too right I know him.
Stinks like a dead possum.
And take it from me, young
Johnny, you’ll be flat-out hang-
ing a charge on him. A very
crafty old bird. Shrewd as they
come. But somehow, 1 dunno
why, I can’t help liking him.”
Starr considered the state-
ment for a while before
remarking dryly, “You don’t
suppose, Rusty, that it could be
that you two have something
in common?”
When they were clear of the
harbor Rusty handed the wheel
over to Yagura, his Papuan
boss boy, and gave him a com-
pass course.
“Come on, Johnny,” he
called. “We might as well turn
in for a few hours. I dunno
how much you’ve got to do,
but I’ve got a heavy day ahead
of me tomorrow.”
Rusty slept peacefully until
the thump, thump of Yagura’s
bare heel on the deck above
him warned him that day was
breaking and Bonabon Island
was in sight.
“Come on, Johnny,” he
called. “Show a leg if you
want to see the sights.”
The sky was still heavily
overcast, Johnny noted as he
walked aft to join Rusty. There
was still no breath of wind, and
the sea lay around them like a
mass of sluggish molten lead.
Up ahead Bonabon revealed
itself as a volcanic peak with
a rim of flat land around the
edges. The whole island was
densely wooded. Trees grew
right down to and even over-
hung the water’s edge, so that,
without the sun to gild the
tops, the impression was one
of monotonous green, a
depressing green with no high-
lights, no undertones and not
even a patch of bare red earth
to give an illusion of variety.
As they crept in close to the


EcUtii in ihc
\
mm
London: with Britain under the smile of
summer.
The scene, in the city and in the beautiful
countryside beyond, is much as I had known it.
But behind it now I can see something new: a
Britain building with determination to the achieve-
ment of great industrial power.
Her performance in the development of nuclear
energy is amazing.
In 1955 she set herself to spend £3OO-million
in the construction of twelve nuclear power stations
within ten years. Last year she stepped it up to
a £9lB-million programme. And by 1965 she
expects to have nineteen stations satisfying half her
total requirements in power and saving her upwards
of eighteen million tons of coal a year.
One large station at Hinkley Point, Somerset,
to go into operation in 1962. will have a capacity
seven times greater than that of Calder Hall, which
was opened in Cumberland in 1956.
At Dounreay, on the north coast of Scotland,
an experimental “fast breeded” reactor will be
feeding back more fuel in replacement than it uses.
By this system, it is claimed, one ton of uranium
can be expected to do the work of one million tons
of coal.
Britain is investing in atomic energy at the rate
of three million pounds sterling a week. She is
working, among other things, on reactors designed
for the cheap atomic propulsion of ships.
And along with this, she is pushing ahead at
Harwell with the controlled use of thermo-nuclear
power—the enormous discovery by which it is hoped
eventually to use the hydrogen in ordinary water
as fuel for atomic plants.
Now, we in Australia have a close and vital
interest in these dramatic projects. By reciprocal
agreements, to which our own scientists are
contributing, we are sharing in an exchange of
atomic information with the United Kingdom, the
United States and Canada.
And what is happening in Britain today is
going to help us revise our whole approach to the
Dowering of Australia to its full richness in the
future.
land Starr asked, “Where’s the
anchorage?”
“I’m swinging in now,”
Rusty told him. “Not a hell of
a lot of room, but it’s safe
enough if a sou’-easter starts-
up.”
“How do you get on in a
nor’-wester?”
“You don’t. If you’ve got
any sense you give her a miss.
But we won’t get any nor’-
westers at this time of the year.
When she comes she’ll come
from the sou’-east.” He glanced
up at the grey blanket of
cloud. “Probably rain like
hell, too.”
The anchorage lay inside a
curved horn of coral reef, and
as they glided quietly in with
the engine cut it struck Starr
that the skipper’s remark about
“Not a hell o'f a lot of room”
was a masterpiece of under-
statement. Certainly the deep
water ran right to the shore,
but as the anchor rattled down
he found himself wondering
whether the Islander would
pull up in time or finish up on
the beach.
The anchor gripped and the
schooner swung slowly around
it, her stern so close to the
shore that the mizzen-mast bore
against the outermost branch of
a huge callophyllum tree that
overhung the water. The limb
creaked in protest, bent to the
limit of its endurance and
snapped with a loud report.
Freeing it from the rigging
and letting it fall into the
water Rusty growled, “The
bloody thing always was in the
way, but I’ll bet those old
jokers won’t be too happy
about it.”
it was only then that Starr
noticed the group of natives
squatting under the tree. One
old man was holding forth,
but his voice was quickly
drowned in the commotion
that followed.
“What’s all the fuss about?”
he asked Rusty.
“They’ve got some sorta
superstition about smashin’ a
tree like that.” Rusty shrugged
his broad shoulders. “1 dunno
the full strength of it. Never
bothered to ask. You know
how it is with ’em. Always
seein’ evil signs in some blasted
thing or other.” He nodded
towards the group. “That’s
the old bloke you’re after.
Pitankassi. The one squatting
in front of the fire. I’ll slip
ashore and say good-day to
him while you get your gear
together.”
■piTANKASSi was old and he
was dirty. His grey hair,
in the style popular among the
natives of that area, was drawn
through a truncated cone of
woven split-cane. A bunch of
feathers, once brilliantly
colored but now stained and
greasy, hung from each pierced
ear-lobe, and thrust through
the septum of his nose was a
long slender bone. His sole
article of clothing was a mal,
a long strip of bark-cloth
wound around the waist and
drawn up between the thighs
with the ends hanging down
in front to about knee level.
The string - bag hanging
from his shoulder and tucked
under his arm was too precious
to be laid aside even for one
moment, for it held all the
little luxuries of his life. There
would be betel-nut in there,
Rusty knew, betel-nut and
daka-leaves to be chewed
together, and a gourd of lime
to go with them. For cigarette-
making there would be rank
tobacco and newspaper yel-
lowed with age. There would
also be a muruk, a bone
dagger made from the thigh-
bone of a cassowary.
Tucked inside a makefast of
grass rope were the old fellow’s
tools of trade ; a few human
hand-bones, a piece of decor-
ated bark-cloth, a bit of quartz
crystal dipped in blood, a dried
turtle-foot and sundry other
gruesome charms. The whole
collection stank, but then so
also did Pitankassi.
He squatted there, bland
and impassive, the ends of his
mal trailing in the ashes of
his fire, a tiny fire with a thin
column of smoke rising straight
up in the breathless air; a
dirty, crafty old savage, filled
with superstitions and prepared,
for a price, to go through the
rituals of sorcery in order to
bring about the wishes of his
clients.
And yet, Rusty felt, there
was something quite likeable
about him. The dark eyes
beneath the high-domed fore-
head were calm and frank.
There was a certain dignity
about him, an air of serenity
or even benevolence. Certainly
there was no malice in his
lined old face. White men
might laugh at the pathetic
absurdity of his superstitions,
yet according to his lights he
was sincere. Like the white
man’s doctor, he was a man
following an age-old profes-
sion in the services of his
fellow-man. He had failures,
but then so did the white
doctor. Each could glibly
explain the reason for those
failures.
Greeting Pitankassi in a
halting version of his own


Legal Notice
LOUIS ELLISON (or ELLERSON or
ELLERTSEN) late of Annandale in the
State of New South Wales Australia
Deceased died on 21st June 1933 for-
merly a resident of Queensland and of
Western Australia may have been born
in Norway.—PURSUANT to a Decretal
Order of the Supreme Court of New
South Wales in its Equitable Jurisdic-
tion dated the 2Sth day of July 1939
and made in Suit No. 140 of 1938 en-
titled "In the matter of the estate of
LOUIS ELLISON formerly of Annan-
dale near Sydney in the State of New
South Wales Gentleman deceased ;
BETWEEN WILFRED BRUCE DIVE
and JOSHUA GLASS Plaintiffs and
HER MAJESTY’S ATTORNEY-
GENERAL FOR NEW SOUTH WALES,
Defendant,” whereby the following en-
quiry was directed namely, that it be
referred to the Master in Equity to
enquire and ascertain who are the
persons entitled by virtue of the Wills
Probate and Administration Act 1898
and the Statute of Distributions or
otherwise to the estate of the above-
named LOUIS ELLISON (or ELLERSON
or ELLERTSEN) deceased other than
and except the legacy that has already
been paid out thereof and whether any
of them are since dead and if so who are
their respective legal personal represen-
tatives if any in the State of New
South Wales NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN that all persons claiming to be
entitled under the said enquiries are
to send by post prepaid to MESSRS.
ROBILLIARD It ROBILLIARD, Soli-
citors, 21 George Street, Parramatta,
New South Wales so as to reach them
on or before the 14th day of November,
1958, their full Christian and surnames
addresses and descriptions and full par-
ticulars of their claims or in default
thereof they will be excluded from the
benefit, of the said' Decretal Order unless
the Court or a Judge thereof or the
Master in Equity on application other-
wise orders. Claimants are to attend
personally or by Solicitor or Counsel
before the Master in Equity at the
Supreme Court, Elizabeth Street, Syd-
ney. on the Bth day of December, 1958,
at 11 o’clock in the forenoon being the
time appointed for adjudicating upon
the claims and must then be prepared
to prove their claim by proper legal
evidence. A claimant not residing in
New South Wales must send with the
particulars of his or her claim the name
and address of a person in New South
Wales to whom notice to the claimant
can be sent. Claimants are advised to
send their particulars of claim by two
Air Mails, at an interval of three or
four davs. —DATED this Seventh day
August, 1958.—ROBILLIARD & ROBIL-
LIARD, Solicitors, 21 George Street,
Parramatta, New South Wales, Solicitors
for the abovenamed Plaintiff, WILFRED
BRUCE DIVE.
dialect Rusty asked, “What
was all the excitement?”
“Your ship has insulted the
tree.” The old man nodded
towards the broken limb.
“Later a bad wind will get-
up. It will bring your ship
back here and avenge the
insult before the eyes of all
who saw this thing done.”
Rusty’s boisterous laugh
showed how lightly he took
the announcement. “You
mean you are going to cast
an evil spell over me?”
“No.” Pitankassi dipped an
elaborately carved wooden
spatula into his lime-gourd,
rattling it loudly as he did so.
His mouth opened, exposing
slumps of teeth and gums
stained crimson from the
betel-juice, and he spooned a
little lime in with the chewing-
mixture.
“The matter is between the
tree and your ship. Since the
tree cannot move to avenge
the insult the wind will help.”
It is as simple as that, his
manner implied.
Again Rusty laughed and,
pointing to the unwavering
column of smoke, he informed
Pitankassi that he’d welcome
a wind, any wind, good or
bad, so long as it would fill
his schooner’s sails and save
his fuel.
He .walked back to the
landing-place and gave Starr
a lighthearted account of the
conversation.
“Nuts,” he finished, tapping
his forehead significantly.
“Take down a sonnet .”
“Like all the rest of ’em.” He
held out a big calloused hand.
“Well, good luck with the sor-
cery hunt, Johnny. Somethin’
tells me you’ll need a lot of
it. I’ll be back to pick you up
in two days.”
r\N the beach Johnny Starr
watched the Islander
depart. When she cleared the
reef he mustered his patrol and
set-off for the village.
There was plenty of work
awaiting him, collecting head-
tax, checking the census by the
village book, entering births,
deaths and marriages and
inspecting food-crops. The
matter of Pitankassi could
wait. Starr was well aware
that if he broached the subject
too soon he would be met with
a bland “Me no savvy.”
Towards noon the wind
sprang up. It was coming from
the north-west, he noted, and
blowing hard. Already the
anchorage was a mass of
breakers.
Towards evening he called
the luluai to him and gradually
worked the conversation
around to the matter of Pitan-
kassi. But the luluai would
not be drawn out. His answers
were evasive and non-
committal, although he did
manage to convey the impres-
sion that he was trying to
help the kiap.
Maybe Pitankassi was a
sorcerer. Who could say?
Yes, the mission teacher was
here a few moons ago, and
he may have had dealings
with Pitankassi. Who knew?
Yes, it was true that the mission
teacher had not been able to
get many of the villagers to
attend church. Oh, no, Pitan-
kassi did not attend ; he was
a heathen. Well —er —put like
that it was possible that the
mission teacher had asked
Pitankassi to use his influence
to induce the villagers to attend
church, and he may have
given Pitankassi a present to
obtain his goodwill. But he,
the luluai, really knew nothing
about it. He was just trying
to be helpful.
Starr let the matter drop.
If the mission teacher had
tried to use sorcery to convert
the heathen to Christianity,
and had lost his feet in the
process, it might be better to
forget the whole case. It cer-
tainly looked as though Rusty
had been right when he
described Pitankassi as a crafty
old bird.
TThe wind leaped on the
Islander shortly before
noon. It came sizzling out of
the nor’-west where leaden sea
met leaden sky. It moaned
through the rigging and it
whipped the dull, flat surface
of the ocean into a mass of
white-capped wavelets that
swiftly built up into a steep
head-sea.
And it was a bad wind,
right in the Islander’s teeth.
Watching her pound heavily
into the rising waves Rusty
cursed long and fluently. She
was scarcely making headway.
Indeed, there were times when
he felt she was just crashing
up and down in the one place.
He was leaning over the side,
trying to gauge her speed,
when his ear caught the first
falter in the engine. It missed
a beat or two, picked-up for
a moment and then faltered
again. This time it did not
resume its normal steady beat.
It spluttered and coughed,
threatening to cut-out at any
moment.
Without pausing to ascertain
the cause of the trouble Rusty
yelled to his crew to get sail
on. The important thing was
to get the schooner under con-
trol, and while they did that
Bunnian, the engine-boy, could
safely be left to struggle with
the engine.
With her sails drawing the
schooner began to forge ahead,
but even close-hauled she was
heading a long way from her
proper course. Moreover,
Rusty was uncomfortably
aware that on either tack she
would be standing into danger
and that at any moment the
rain might pelt down and cut
off his visibility. The engine
was dead now and a worried
and sweating Bunnian reported
that he had been unable to
locate the trouble. With the
violent pitching of the ship
work in the, engine-room was
difficult.
Rusty acknowledged his wor-
ried report with a grunt. He,
too, was worried, damnably
worried. The only prudent
course was to run for shelter
where he and Bunnian could
find and remedy the engine
defect. Bonabon was the
nearest shelter. Even though
the anchorage was unusable in
this wind he could find a pro-
tective lee on the southern side
and hang on there until they
got the engine going again.
But he didn’t want to return
to Bonabon. To do so would
be an admission of defeat. It
would be playing right into
old Pitankassi’s hands, admit-
ting that even the white man
was powerless against his
magic.
He delayed his decision for
half-an-hour, until the first
rain-squall came lashing across
the deck, before giving the
order to free-off the sheets and
run for Bonabon. Without
looking at them he could sense
the disquiet amongst his crew.
Even Yagura, who had always
regarded his master as some-
thing akin to God, was uneasy.
When it came to ancient super-
stitions the mantle of civilisa-
tion sat very lightiy on the
average kanaka.
Driving before wind and
(Continued on page 56)


A Page of Verse ...
SEA-BEASTS
The sea-horse, of course, can’t canter;
the sea-hare
Never runs anywhere; while the sea-
cucumber
Isn’t a vegetable at all, but, fable says
That men of China eat it for dinner, and
there,
In China, along with sharks’ fins and
birds’ nests, number
It among delicacies, though it’s a sea-slug,
no less.
All this topsy-turvydom of the sea proves
Through such nomenclature, man moves
In a looking-glass world ... All that he
sees,
Dreamed from the lees of some experience
he suffers,
Toping the heady bottle of the world’s
globe.
I do not think, if the seas were ink, these
Records could be closed, with all that
offers
As double proof his sea-beasts need some
scientist’s probe.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
POND AT THE BOTANICAL
GARDENS
Far off, the children play upon the grass,
The dogs run barking for a ball,
The sunlit leaves are waterfalls of glass —
But here there is no light, no sound, no
footfall,
Only the overhanging trees’ dense shadow.
No sunlight filters through the mass of
green,
And in the murky pond, as they come
and go,
Enormous goldfish may be sometimes
seen.
As, abruptly, some half-strangled urge
Or some elusive vague idea
From the mind’s umber waters will
emerge,
So the great carp appear and disappear.
Beneath the surface moves a dim orange
glare
And breaking the waters’ torpid sleep
A huge snout erupts and gobbles the air,
Then turns, and buries itself in the deep.
N.S.W.
GEOFFREY LEHMANN.
L’UCCELLO DE TUONO
(Thunderbird)
Over the great sky spread from dawn
To twilight with a mask of grey,
A thousand flocks flew inland far
From streaming reed-bank and the bay.
Cold mountains holy in their age
Made walls to brim the evening in . . ,
Pure swan and deeply swooping gull
Met with a scream their silver kin.
The feral lightning followed down
A rocky flank, and then they heard
The sound that silenced all lament—
The coming of the thunderbird.
Black wings to flap and fold around
The untrod peak, and eyes that shine
Superbly in a golden flash
Above the storming of the pine.
What beast shall not be dumb and flinch
To hear the tumults in the cloud?
And all the innocents are hid
In trembling branch and rainy shroud.
Toward the east, toward the north
The wildest one flies in delight,
And looses sable plumes along
The booming borders of the night;
No habitation stands, no man
Can hear his own fear-broken word.
The mount, the ether and the gulf
Belong alone to thunderbird.
N.z.
PAULA HANGER BIRCH.
FIREWHEEL TREE
Round and round, those wheels of fire,
My hurt, my fear, delight, desire,
Hung whirling in that dark-green tree.
I could not tell, so fast they spun
Like scarlet star and crimson sun
In all the leaves’ intricacy,
What incandescence clear or sombre
Might light one flower from another,
Delight or fear or agony ;
But all in that same shape they blazed
Of flame whirled into symmetry,
And round they went —I stood amazed
In hurt, in fear, delight, desire,
To see my life in wheels of fire
Go round that dark and silent tree.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
WOMAN IN THE BAR
Flesh —but swollen, numb, too much
despised
and sullenly abused —yet flesh, face,
still Woman; and these eyes, these
crippled eyes, surprised
and touched no more; and all allnight’s
disgrace
monotonous with lust, is this, waste’s
place.
How many years, now, on the verge of
life ? '
“It’s not too late to live.” Too late! Too
late,
Life’s reason now has gone—and I am
Night’s wife
now, only, terribly. Come, then, be my
great
man throning me, my stranger love,
strange mate,
and I will be your lonely victory,
and your easy love. See how my arms are
here
to know you (but do not look into, not 1
see,
beyond the old yes of my eyes!) Come
near,
touch me. “Yes, yes, dear, beer : mine
will be beer.”
Jack Night, you sniggering bawd, touch-
ing to own
more than my strenuous marketplace
always,
I’ll not give you possession in my bone !
“Thanks, love.” God ! Do not stare your
greed-greed’s praise
at me from all men’s, strangers’, shopping-
gaze !
'‘Ah, that was good: cold beer is always
good.
What did you say your job was, love ?
Never mind . . .
No. I’m not doing anything . . . I should
say no, of course, but you look young
and kind.
Then beer . . .” (Ha! Night, you still are
blind, blind!)
Shall we term this the landscape of man-
kind ?
These eyes life’s country? This flesh,
fertility ?
No. This is a world denying—blind—
these eyes look back at me and only see
blood’s praise, numb even beyond agony.
Good. Good. Well, stranger, treat me
drinks, then come,
mould with your ancestors in me tonight,
and all this will I sell. But do not presume
to soil into my eyes! Back! All Man!
Jack Night!
You plunder me ! Age into my bone with
light !
Woman, merchant, merchandise, I see
beyond the beckon merely of your eyes
defeat, wind’s stare, lone Night’s
victory—
your eyes tell all your years, and Time
only buys
harsh aching futures here; your bone’s
the price.
Jack Night! Jack Night! You leave me
nothing now,
you spoil and plunder me. God ! I am
hell
and past. Past! Take back, take back —-
allow
me bail —God ! God! Time’s fled ! I’m
husk, frame, shell
only! ‘‘Quick, love, embrace me!”
Hold, life, swell!
Man, tell me life in your crude arms, and
hold
Night from me yet! Man, help me to
forget
his property over me ! Your life is old
and older than life, you half-a-life,
Night’s mate.
Ah, though I hold you till the stars abate
it is too late to change his love : too late.
N.S.W.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT.


AUSTRALIA AND ASIA
By “ONE SPUR”
One of the extraordinary pheno-
mena of the generations that
have succeeded the holocaust of
1914-18 has been the fact that the
'Western world has never been able to
believe what its would-be destroyers have
plainly written in black-and-white as a
record of their plans of action.
Perhaps at first our complacency
seemed justified as we sat behind
military and financial bulwarks smiling
at those we then considered “the lesser
breeds without the law” attempting to
justify themselves. So we ignored
Hitler’s scribblings as the work of a
crank: yet look where they led! This
complacency was unjustified then, but
now it is no more than madness. Lenin
wrote, too ; and he was a genius who
knew exactly where he wanted his
country to go. Not only did he under-
stand the true nature of war, but he
also had the patience of an Oriental.
From the seeds Lenin sowed we can
now see the Communist pattern unfold-
ing. It has been doing so now for more
than a decade, right in front of our
eyes.
A third writer has appeared on the
scene, by name Mao Tse-tung. Again
he follows the pattern of his predecessors,
a man of action with the gift of rhetoric ;
his record shows that he means what he
says. Denis Warner wrote an account,
of what this man has done, and from it
we might take the translation of two
sentences from Mao's Problems of War
and Strategy: —
Every Communist must grasp this truth:
political power grows out .of the barrel
of the gun... .Anything can grow out of
the barrel of the gun.
All these writers have one thing in
common: sincerity. None of them has
been a long-haired boy, sitting back in
ponderous judgment on a world that his
forebears made safe for him to live in,
but unwilling to soil his own lily-white
hands with the mud of the battlefield.
These writers have led men and have
done so by speaking plainly, without
fear of hurting anyone’s feelings, because
they • have pointed out the simple truth
of man’s duty: to ensure his country’s
survival and expansion.
Are we in Australia doing everything
we can to ensure our country’s survival?
That is a question better answered, for
instance, by the commanding-officer of
a C.M.F. battalion. Some people might
be surprised to hear what he has to say
about employers insofar as opposition
goes to time spent in the efficient train-
ing of his men. And, in view of the
bogy of “unemployment,” why does
recruiting for the Regular Army still lag
behind? It is a question whether we
are all speaking with one voice: and that,
surely, is the first requisite of nationhood.
The main thing Australia has to offer
the world is the idea of freedom ; and this
is a commodity much lacking in the world
nowadays and an idea which we might
worthily spend our lives in offering to
the world and especially to Asia. And
this is one thing that will not grow “out
of the barrel of the gun.” We have
been lucky in inheriting it as our birth-
right, and so we can, apparently, let the
long-haired boys talk and the Communists
in our midst agitate, while we each set
about following our own interest —be it
surfing or sit-down strikes, wool-buying
or just waffling.
The world is a hard school. Perhaps,
as a young nation, we have been too
busy with the task of growing. But now
we are at school and, like a small boy
on his first entry, we must expect hard
knocks. The first essential for a small
boy who wants to live at peace with
his larger neighbors is a very thorough
knowledge of what used to be called
(before Dr. Summerskill came into the
scene) “the noble art of self-defence.”
That ensures that his voice will at least
be listened to, because if he is pushed
too far he can hit back effectively. The
second essential is a clear and simple
code and a balanced judgment which
will ensure that he uses his power only
when it is really needed.
Our neighbors are big nations, and
they are bullies. Their views are
diametrically opposed to ours and they
seek to conquer the world. This Lenin
has plainly stated. Mao in his Problems
of War and Strategy clearly shows how
they eventually intend to do it. To an
Oriental “eventually” may mean to-
morrow or in 20 years’ time or in a
century. Nevertheless, unless matters
are changed, it will one day be done.
If we aren’t here to face it, our children
or our grandchildren will be.
To change the enemy’s mind is the
true purpose of war, and Lenin knew it
well, as does Mao. We do not ; so,
although we won the last two wars in
the field, we lost them in the hearts of
our enemies and in our own. That
explains the phenomenon already noted.
Fortune offers us a chance to help Asia
and perhaps to save the world.
Australia is indeed in a unique posi-
tion in this regard. Though we are not
of Asia —and never let us forget that —
we are its nearest neighbor among the
Western countries, and seem to have a
special responsibility which so far we
have been reluctant to assume.
DEFENCE OF NEW GUINEA
By “R.R.D.”
HThe report of the Trusteeship Com-
mittee of the United Nations on
our mandate in New Guinea was
reasonably favorable. U.N. considers
we are doing well, though per-
haps not delegating enough responsibility
in local-government.
Local-government leads to self-govern-
ment and independence, which Australia
aims to give. But independence demands
the ability to defend oneself, so it
might be worth examining the threat to
New Guinea and New Guinea's powe£
to parry and riposte.
New Guinea seems to be threatened
in two ways. The present evident threat
is from the west. If the Indonesians
succeed in taking Dutch New Guinea
and getting the Melanesians of Irian to
admit to being Indonesians, there is at
present nothing to stop them eventually
extending their empire eastwards, and,
in the sacred name of nationalism,
persuading the inhabitants of New Guinea
that they are also Indonesians. The second
threat is more subtle. It is possible for
a number of junks, each filled to capacity
(say, in each 50 to 100 souls and enough
rice to last for a year), to land on some
unguarded part of the coast and for
the ships’ companies to squat there and
start working and breeding, undiscovered.
[M. H. Ellis, in The Defence of Australia
(1933), scouts a theory then current of
the possibility of Japan landing 100,000
men suddenly on a quiet river in Northern
Australia. This present threat is as dif-
ferent from that one as chalk from
cheese, first because it is peaceful and
entirely “correct” on the surface;
secondly because it would take place in
New Guinea.]
The answer to the first threat is
plainly the capacity for self-defence;
to the second, watch-and-ward.
Apart from the police, the military
force available for the defence of New
Guinea consists of the Pacific Islands
Regiment. This infantry battalion, with
all its officers and a proportion of w.o.s
and n.c.o.s supplied by the Australian
Army, trains soldiers within its limita-
tions of numbers and scope of employ-
ment.
As an infantryman I cannot underrate
the skill and technical efficiency which
our Papuan brothers-in-arms must master
in their training. But it does seem odd
that, although some of them have been
taught to play the bagpipes, none have
yet been formed into an artillery unit
and shown how to serve field-guns or
anti-aircraft guns. Tam Marte quam
Minerva is sometimes ribaldly translated
by rough and brutal footsloggers as
“too many gunners get on m’nerves”;
but the most enthusiastic infantryman
must admit that in reasonable numbers
the guns do earn their corn. Here’s a
case where they are particularly necessary.
What New Guinea needs is a force
of all arms of the minimum strength of
3500, trained to take the field eventually
under its own officers and n.c.o.s.
Then New Guinea, Australia’s own
shield, would be properly defended and
we could begin to talk sense.
It would be a rare example of the
initiative being taken by a Western nation,
based on a correct appreciation that
Australia and New Guinea are not part
of South-east Asia but outposts of
Christendom against Communism.
Someone, when charged by the French
with his men hard-pressed, told his own
drummers to strike-up the enemy’s
march: “Let's beat ’em to their own
damned tune.'’ There’s something to be
said for that theme right now.


start the dau right!
■imM;
ytOIMC
EHOEh
l‘ c ®2
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Racing at the Valley
At Moonee Valley last
Saturday bookmakers display-
ing charts on the Caulfield-
Melbourne Cups double moved
Tudor Hill several rungs up
the Caulfield ladder after he
had scored one of the easiest
flat-wins imaginable in the mile
Tullamarine Handicap. Offici-
ally Tudor Hill had 10 lengths
to spare from the second horse
—after galloping well within
himself at that; indeed, Ron
Hutchinson’s comment to
trainer Norman Francis was:
“I couldn’t make him go any
slower.”
A five-year-old entire by
Ottoman from Charmeuse,
Tudor Hill is yet another horse
to have shown the benefit of
a trip to Brisbane. At Eagle
Farm on June 28 he won a
Welter almost as easily as he
scored at the Valley. At Eagle
Farm the track was heavy, as
it was also on Saturday. Tudor
Hill’s programme is aimed at
the Toorak Handicap (in which
he ran second last year) and
the Caulfield Cup. With only
7.13 in the Cup he won’t be
the worst of them, and should
the track be heavy his chance
will be first-class.
Horses that can handle the
tricky Moonee Valley circuit
are usually much better there
than anywhere else. For
example, the five-year-old De-
tector gelding Probe has run
four of his last eight' races
at the Valley, for three wins
and a third, whereas his best
effort from the other four
starts on various tracks was a
sixth. In winning the 13-
furlongs Ngarveno Handicap
on Saturday Probe stayed too
well for former Sydney gal-
loper Gay Ranick.
A fair indication of the state
of the track at the Valley was
given by the time the filiies
took to run the 6 furlongs less
20yds. of the opening event
on the card —the first heat of
the Ailsa Handicap. In wan-
ning, Smokelea took 1.184.
The Smokey Eyes filly like’s
the Valley (her only other win
was at that track) and she likes
heavy going, the latter prefer-
ence inherited from her dam,
Miss Golea. Incidentally, Miss
Golea has been a wonderful
success at the stud. She is also
the dam of Philstar, Lady
Djafar and Goldbury, all of
whom have shown good win-
ning-form. Smokelea’s trainer,
Norman Hennington, also pre-
pared Miss Golea.
• • • •
For all concerned —the filly,
owner F. Littlefield, trainer
K. Stead, and the rider, young
German-born Peter Justin—
the win by Summer Kiss in the
Second Ailsa was a first Metro-
“When y' get to the sport-page will y' lend me y ’ specs ?”
politan success. Littlefield gave
only lOOgns. for Summer Kiss
who is by Djafar from Double
Refraction. Justin, who came
to Australia some seven years
ago, can ride at 7.0, but there
was no lack of strength in
his hands as he held Summer
Kiss together in a tight finish
with the favorite, Shanty Miss.
The boy had to rely on the
strength of his hands. His
master, Stead, will not allow an
apprentice to ride with a whip,
reckoning that an inexperienced
lad loses more ground than
he gains as he wields the whip.
• • • •
Biggest surprise about New
Model’s win in the mile
Morang Handicap, a race for
three-year-old colts and geld-
ings, was that the Meadow Mist
gelding started favorite in
the race. Prior to Saturday’s
success, New Model, despite
many runs on city and country
tracks, was still a maiden.
However, he showed all the
pace of the Meadow Mist
breed, and stamina enough to
hold off all challenges in the
straight. It is a fair indication
of the shortage of senior riders
in Melbourne that Alan Burton
was the only fully-fledged
jockey in this race. Moreover,
apprentices won five of the six
flat events on the programme,
Melbourne’s jumping season
has virtually ended, but there
was keen interest in the Broad-
meadows Steeple at the Valley
to see if Van Perri could
become the greatest stake-
winner ever amongst Australian
jumping horses. A winner of
£14,850, Van Perri rates second
only to The Feline, winner of
£4OO more. Van Perri, how-
ever, ran one of his few' bad
races at the circular track.
The heavy going and his 12.7
proved too much for the old
gelding (in this new season,
Van Perri is a 10-year-old).
He will be kept in training in
the hope that he can win the
one more race he needs to
pass The Feline.
• • • •
Although nearly everybody
else had decided that Endius
had seen the last of his win-
ning days, owner A. Connell
was sure the eight-year-old
entire could win again for
him. He duly did so at the
Valley, his first win for 15
months ; leading throughout in
the 6 furlongs less 20yds.
Macedon Welter, and making
light of his 9.1, despite the
heavy going. Endius has won
no end of races, including two
wins in the Yan Yean Stakes,
final event on Melbourne Cup
day. Connell, a grazier from
the Deniliquin (N.S.W.) dis-
trict, supports his horses
strongly when he fancies them,
and he has had some very
good wins with this old fellow.
Attendances at V.R.C. meet-
ings for the year ended June
30 were a photo-finish with the
figures for the previous 12
months. Precisely, they were
down 0.49 per cent., accord-
ing to the senior club’s report
released last week. The profit
for the year was a satisfactory
£10,689, well above the previ-
ous year’s £6266. Accumulated
funds of the club stand at
£212,026.
• • • •
In Adelaide last Saturday a
youngster won the Adelaide
Guineas at 7 to 1 on. As
spring racing gets under way,
racegoers are likely to remem-
ber his name —Jordan. This is
the horse who proved too good
for top-class Melbourne gal-
loper Planetoid in the S.A.J.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes in the
autumn. Reports from Adel-
aide indicate that Jordan is
very good indeed. He can
sprint and stay, and is up to
the class of whatever races are
chosen for him in the spring.
* * *
Sydney Racing
Main interest on the first day
of the Warwick Farm spring
meeting next Saturday will
centre on the performances by
the three-year-olds in the £l5OO
Hobartville Stakes (seven fur-
longs), from which there may
be a Derby guide. Three-year-
olds are also engaged in other
races on the programme, which
includes the £1250 Campbell-
town Handicap (six furlongs)
and the £lOOO August Handi-
cap furlongs). The run-
ning of this double and of the
Glenlee Handicap is expected
to throw some light on Epsom
and Metrop. chances.
The first Hobartville Stakes
was run at Warwick Farm in
1925, and was won by Amounis
from Vaals and Cajole. Man-
fred won a sensational A.J.C.
Derby that same year. He
started at 5 to 2 on, was left
half-a-furlong, but chased the


Missing Beneficiary
JOHN ROBINS EDGCUMBE
* (Deceased)
Pursuant Order Chancery Division
HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE (England)
dated 9th of October 1951 re: John
Robins Edgcumbe deceased (Peter-v-
Edgcumbe) 1950 E.lOOO. Inquiry
directed for persons entitled to any
property of the said John Robins
Edgcumbe (late of Mornish, Summer-
leaze, Bude Stratton Cornwall, who
died 17th March 1930) as to which he
died intestate and the Estates and
interests shares and proportions and if
any such persons are since dead who
are their personal representatives.
Claims to James Albert Norman
Bailey of 27 Chancery Lane, London
W.C.2., by 14th of November 1958.
In default thereof claimants wdll be
excluded from the benefit of the said
Order unless the Court or Judge on
application otherwise orders.
DATED 30th Julv, 1958.
G. S. A. WHEATCROFT
Master
NOTE :—lnformation is particularly
sought as to the issue (or if such issue
dead their personal representatives) of
Joseph Edgcumbe (a child of Nicholas
and Mary Anne Edgcumbe, nee Crabbe,
the paternal grandparents of the
Testator) who was born at Camelford
on 19th Ma.v 1843—He is believed to
have emigrated to Australia in 1866.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO A LISTER MCINTYRE Late of 14
Fenwick Street Y'agoona TAKE
NOTICE that BETTY SUSAN
MCINTYRE has filed a petition for
divorce No. 705 of 1958 on the ground
of desertion without just causel or
excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 17th of October
1958 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from JOSEPH H.
McDOUGALL & CO., Solicitors, 4
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
field and won the classic by
nearly two lengths. Petunia
was second and Tibbie third,
with Amounis fourth. Amounis
ran much below expectations
in the Derby and had mixed
luck for the rest of that season,
but he eventually won £48,297
in stakes (33 wins, 11 seconds,
8 thirds ; 79 starts). The day
Amounis won the Hobartville
Jim Munro won the Denham
Court Handicap on Tong Bong,
beating his greatest rival, Jim
Pike, on Red Gauntlet. Dreblah
beat Pilliwinkie and Solidify in
the August Handicap. A few
weeks later Pilliwinkie won the
Melbourne Stakes at Fleming-
ton, and was then third in the
Melbourne Cup to Windbag
and Manfred in one of the best
Cup contests on record.
• • • •
The second Hobartville went
to Rampion, who followed-up
by taking the A.J.C. Derby and
the Victoria Derby. Other
winners of the Hobartville-
Derby double were Ammon Ra
in 1931 and Magnificent in
1945.
There’s likely to be a good
deal of interest in the first
appearance here of New Zea-
lander Yeman, due for an early
run In Sydney. He has 8.10
in both the Metropolitan and
Caulfield Cup and lib. more in
the Melbourne Cup. A plain-
looker, he’s a six-year-old
gelding, and a true stayer. New
Zealand successes include the
Wellington Cup and Auckland
Cup, both run at two miles.
He is trained by former suc-
cessful jockey Larry Wiggins.
• • • •
Chairman A. G. Potter,
addressing A.J.C. members at
the annual meeting, said that
punters over the past seven
years had shown a drift from
the tote to bookmakers. He
claimed that this was brought
about by the Government im-
posing an extra 2j per cent, tax
on the tote in 1951, bringing
it to the present figure of
per cent. He said that punters
had wagered between £3l mil-
lion and £33| million at Rand-
wick and at Warwick Farm
during the racing year just
closed (bookmakers and tote),
and that in taxes the Govern-
ment collected no less than
15s. 3d. per head for every
racegoer each time he or she
went to A.J.C. courses.
Sydney Turf Club’s 1957-58
season was better financially
than that of the A.J.C., and
also an improvement on its
previous year. Profit (£24,130)
was up £2734 on the 1956-57
season. The club, which held
49 meetings, two more than in
the previous term, with 21 of
the fixtures midweek, disbursed
£363,218 in prizemoney, com-
pared with £351,743 in the
previous 12 months. Attend-
ances showed a slight increase.
* * *
An interestingly bred three-
year-old filly, Golden Mirth,
cleared out with the Second
Maiden Handicap on the
Q.T.C.’s Metropolitan Handi-
cap day. She is by the im-
ported sire City of Gold, who
is by Gold Bridge, winner of
races in England (£6895) and
in France, successes including
the Ascot King Stand Stakes
on two occasions, each time
with topweight of 10.3. Gold
Bridge is also the sire of
Squander Bug (imp.), sire of
Squander Lad and other smart
gallopers. City of Gold, him-
self a winner in England, is
the first Gold Bridge horse to
go to Queensland. Corium,
dam of Golden Mirth, is by
Corban (imp.) from Mora-
torium by Whittier, and traces
back to Trenton. Big names
in the filly’s background
include Hydrogen, Desert Gold,
Gold Rod and Maid of the
Mist.
Bon Glance, winner of the
Q.T.C.’s First Maiden, is a
three-year-old colt by a success-
ful sire of Brisbane gallopers,
Passing Glance (imp.). His
dam. Bonne Matrone, was bred
in France. She is by Quicko
from Bellone by Huntersdale.
Family - lines include War
Admiral, a winner of the Ken-
tucky Derby.
Summer Stream, a three-
year-old filly by Judicate (imp.)
from Fete, was among the
winners at the Eagle Farm
fixture. She was bred at Kia-
Ora Stud, Scone (N.S.W.), and
is closely related to Oxley,
winner of staying events in
Melbourne and Sydney.
* * *
The numerous entries for
Graduation Stakes races over
sprint distances indicate that
Sydney has a big surplus of
non-winners. For the Canter-
bury Park meeting last Satur-
day (wiped out by rain) 103
horses were nominated and 63
survived acceptance, about
half of them maidens. The
S.T.C. has another six-furlongs
Graduation Stakes on the Sep-
tember 6 programme (Guineas
Day), and it is probable that
entries will reach the century.
These sprints appear to be
popular with officials and pub-
lic alike, but there seems room
for a revision of the condi-
tions governing them, because
in the main their fields consist
of moderates that may never
reach open company. Pro-
vincial meetings apparently
haven’t managed to cater suffi-
ciently for maiden horses, and
the two metropolitan clubs
might assist in this direction
by staging more events for non-
winners only. The S.T.C. is
doing so at the midweek
fixtures.
• • • •
The Trots
Jenny (at 8 to 1) romped
home in the Trotters’ Handi-
cap, the first event of the new
season at Harold Park on
Saturday night, beating 33-to-l
Bank Account, with Queen Bee
third. Bobby Medoro, favor-
ite, led most of the way to the
“bell” lap, where Jenny took
charge, to run out an easy
winner. New Zealander Sona-
tol (a 5-to-2 fancy) broke
badly, galloped nearly a lap,
and so was never a possibility.
In the first division of the
Qualifying Stakes, run over
the new distance of 9 furlongs,
170yds., five-year-old Verity,
driven by Merv Adams, just
scrambled home to beat
Dhulura by a head, With Shy
Sheila a handy third. Chal-
Jenged by Dhulura near the
finish, Verity (who led
throughout) appeared to
stumble: Adams said later
that she tried to pigroot and
he had to hit her to keep her
going.
Grey Emerald won the
second division of the Qualify-
ing by lengths from Merl-
star, with the favorite, Big
Smoke, third. Grey Emerald
began smartly and led all the
way for a very convincing
win. He is trained by Mrs. E.
Mason, who races him on
lease and drives him in most
of his track work.
There was a sensation in
the Bondi Handicap, v when
the favorite, Nuffield, after
breaking badly at the start,
dislodged his driver and
careered round the track be-
fore being expertly caught by
the clerk of the course. The
race went to second-favorite
Fl'ingo, who led almost
throughout; Distant Peak,
Gay Society in the places.
Bannalagh’s failure in the
main event of the night, the
Harold Park Handicap, cost
punters a packet. Slowly
aw'ay, he was in front of only
two horses for the first two
laps. The field was well
bunched, and when he started
his run in the last lap he was
forced to go four wide on the
turns. He was still able to
finish close behind the place-
getters. New Memory, who
had the run of the race
throughout, trailed Bondi John
to the home-turn, then went
on to win comfortably from
Scottish Brigade and Worthy
Carl.
* * *
Other Sports
The most significant game
in Saturday’s V.F.L. round
was North’s surprise 11.14-
8.14 defeat of Essendon on the
Dons’ home-ground. In the
last quarter North had to line-
up to be counted, on the de-
mand of Dons’ skipper Clarke ;
but umpire Barbour found
only 18 Kangaroos hopping
around. In the last two games
Essendon had beaten Colling-
wood and Melbourne, and
seemed certain to consolidate
its position in “the four.” Now
North is back in fourth place,
but has the tougher assign-
ment this Saturday—Colling-
wood at Victoria Park, while
the Dons meet Richmond. On
these two games depends which
of the two will play-off. In
another important game (from


Hawthorn’s viewpoint, any-
way) South pipped the Hawks
by two points, 6.14-6.12, after
trailing for three quarters;
bang go whatever slender hopes
John Kennedy’s men still had.
Melbourne skittled St. Kilda
21.11- ;-Barassi, Webb and
promoted Shield - cricketer
Crompton each kicked" five
goals, and Bob Johnson four.
Collingwood stayed in second
place, on percentages, by beat-
ing a tigerish Richmond, 16.11-
13.10. Fitzroy, with a goal in
the last minute, was somewhat
lucky to beat Carltofi by five
points, 15.11-13.18. In a hard
game Geelong defeated Foots-
cray 13.14-12.13.
“Rossby”: Few players have
made as remarkable an entry
into V.F.L. ranks as did 18-
year-old Footscray recruit Ray
Baxter. Coming on to the
field at full-forward for his
first League game lOmin. from
the end of ’Scray’s recent
20.11- win over. Fitzroy,
Baxter kicked three goals from
his first three kicks, all in three
minutes!
“Up There, Cazaly” (St.
Helens, Eng.): “Aussie footy”
is more euphonious than “Aus-
tralian footy” and
more accurate than
just “footy.” Many
national - code fans
look on Soccer and
Rugby as “foreign”
importations. Our
national code is the
ideal game for virile
young Australians.
Played fast and
hard, there Is no
more exciting spec-
tacle than a game
of Aussie Rules. It also
has the advantage that it can
be played on a cricket-ground
with very little measuring and
marking-out to be done.
Recently 1 wrote to the Mel-
bourne G.P.O. suggesting a
special stamp to mark the
centenary of Aussie Rules.
Nuthin' doin’. What has
happened to Australia’s love of
sport?
* * *
Sydney Rugby Union's match
of the day, between St. George
and East, was close and tight,
with the only score an oppor-
tunist try after a 50yds. run
following an intercept by St.
George winger Weir about
Bmin. from the end. Gordon
defeated North 24-3, after
leading only 5-3 at half-time ;
Manly scotched Drummoyne
15-6; Randwick overpowered
Eastwood 28-16—the Greens
scored eight tries to three ; and,
in a game with no bearing on
the competition, University
beat Parramatta 20-17.
For the third week in
succession St. George made
Sydney Rugby League’s “match
of the day” a one-sided travesty
6f a game. This time it
myxomatosed South Sydney
Rabbit-ohs 40-4 ; South had a
man off all the second half, but
the Saints were well in front at
half-time, and were not at fulk
steam thereafter. St. George
lost two games this year—in
the opening round to Manly
15-21 and later, surprisingly,
by a point (18-19) to wooden-
spqoner Parramatta in July.
Manly, which has qualified for
“I’ve got the knack of it now, George !"
the finals, just beat North 7-2,
Newtown beat West (also
qualified) 14-11 and Balmain
outplayed Canterbury 22-8.
Newtown and Balmain thus
tied for fourth possie and were
to play-off yesterday (Tuesday).
On. Sunday, with nothing
hingeing on it, East routed
Parramatta 38-7.
* * *
“Frangeo”: The N.S.W.
Colts v, England Rugby League
match at the S.C.G. last Thurs-
day, won by England 19-11,
put on view some of Aus-
tralia’s probable future tourists.
Lock-forward Johnny Raper
was the Light Blues’ best
player, and if he keeps his
present form must surely get
a trip to England next year.
On his defence alone Raper
would be an asset to any team.
Fullback Brian Graham played
a good game under the sloppy
conditions, and could get a
mortgage on Churchill’s old
job. Half-back Bugden and
second-rower Hambly did well
and could tour. Country rake
lan Walsh, shaded in the set-
scrums by English hooker
Ackerley, was first-class in the
open. Wingers Lumsden and
Parrish, with few opportunities,
played well ; a sidestep by
Lumsden to beat Southward
was a gem. Parrish kicked
some good goals, one from the
centre of the quagmire a real
beauty. Though these Colts
did so well, it should be
remembered that only one of
the N.S.W. Colts who played
a very close game with France
in 1955 toured with the 1956
Kangaroos.
In Wellington, in the first
Soccer Test, Australia de-
feated N.Z. 3-2. At Napier
(N.Z.), the first hockey Test
between the two was a n/7-all
draw. At New Plymouth, at
Rugby Union, Australia beat
Taranaki, holders of the Ran-
furly Shield, 12-0; all the
points came in the first half.
At Johannesburg, at Rugby
Union, France surprisingly de-
feated South Africa in the
second Test of a two-Test
series, 9-5, after the first had
been a 3-all draw.
* * *
“Veryl”: Merv Lincoln is
an example of the great athlete
who would be pre-eminent in
his time—but for the presence
in the field of an all-time great
who dims his star ; in his, case,
of course, Herb Elliott. Several
cricket instances of the kind
can be cited. Had there been
no Bradman, Ponsford would
undoubtedly now possess a
very much higher standing.
Trumper is immortal, but the
man he opened with, Duff, is
never spoken of ; yet, according
to A. G. Moyes, in Australian
Batsmen, Duff “was a bhtsman
of the very highest class, who
would have had a much greater
reputation if he had not been
Vic Trumper’s pa r t'n e r.”
Similarly, Spofforth is famed,
while his “junior partner,”
Boyle, is forgotten, though
batsmen of the time claimed
he was as hard: to play as was
“The Demon” and some of his
bowling-figures were as good.
* *' *
“Cliffy”: There is a move
in America to change the
present method of scoring in
tennis —to wipe-out the deuce-
advantage factor which can
prolong games, tire players and
upset tournament arrange-
ments. Favored is a method
of scoring based on that used
in table-tennis—each set to go
to the player who first scores
31 points, except in the case
of the score tying at 30-all.
The winner would then be the
player to gain a break of two
points. 'A match of five sets
played under this system
would last, on average, about
90min. and would probably
prove more acceptable to
players and spectators than
some of the tiresome mara-
thons which mar many tourna-
fnents. Scoring in single points
would also be more readily
understood by the casual fan
often puzzled by the present
terms of “love,” “deuce,”, etc.
* * #
“Judee”: Bob Barry
“repped” for N.S.W. seven
times as a backstroke swimmer,
won seven Australian titles and
held backstroke records over
110yds., 220yds. and 440yds.
In national surf titles he gained
a second and a third place,
and was club captain of Manly
(N.S.W.) in 1956. This year
he has taken-up Rugby Union
in earnest, gained a place in
Manly’s first-grade pack, and
recently played for N.S.W.
against Queensland when Jim
Lenehan was injured in the first
five minutes of play. Another
ambition—to win a blazer for
N.S.W. at water-polo.
* * *
“K.R.”: Roger Hartigan,
who passed on at 78 in Brisbane
a month or two ago, shared in a
cricket record that has stood for
50 years. Playing in his first
Test (against England in Adelaide
in 1907-08) he joined Clem
Hill, with Australia 78 runs
behind on the first -innings and
7-180 in the second. The pair
added 243 (Hartigan 116) for the
eighth wicket, which is still a Test-
record for an Australian pair for
that wicket; Australia went on to
win. Hartigan went to England
with the 1909 side, and in later
years was a Queensland rep. on the
Board of Control, and a vice-
president and life-member of the
Queensland Cricket Association.


THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
T
a 0
Sydney's Most
Distinguished Hotel
Newly modernised and decorated
throughout. The Hotel Metropole is
fast becoming Sydney’s smartest and
most fashionable hotel. Right in the
heart of the city, the Hotel
Metropole offers you the comfort
and convenience of Australia’s
largest and friendliest hotel. Over
400 rooms all with telephones and
hot and cold water (85 with private
bathroom), luxurious ultra-modern
suites, 6 magnificent entertaining
rooms, swift, efficient room service
and a really fine dining room and
cellar.
Yes, at the Hotel Metropole you’ll
receive truly wonderful hospitality
and service in the traditional
lelaxed and friendly atmosphere
that makes the Hotel Metropole
THE place to stay in Sydney.
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Australia’s Most
Friendly Hotel
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy The Long Rifle and
Ranchero, by Stew'art Edward
White.—673B.
Copy of Captain Donaldson's
Cruise of the Raider Woolfe. —6737.
Information Sought
(1) Did Jack Carroll ever lose a
fight ? (2) What were the results
of some of his greatest fights ?
(1) Yes, but he won very many
more than he lost. He won his
first six prelim, fights, then lost
his seventh (to Horrie Conly—over
six rounds on Dec. 1, 1924). In
1925 he lost two fights—to Dave
Palmer in six rounds and to Darcy
Lee in 15. He lost his last fight
of 1926 (to Snowy Christenson over
15 rounds), was defeated by Gordon
Keilly at Wonthaggi in 12 rounds
(Jan. 28, 1927 —his first fight away
from Melbourne), lost to Harry
Casey at Wellington (N.Z.) in 15
rounds on July 23, 1928, lost to
Charley Purdy on a foul in the
11th round (Sydney, Dec. 1, 1928)
and lost on a foul in the seventh
round to Wally Hancock (Leich-
hardt, June 5, 1931). He lost only
one other fight, his most important
defeat, when he was k.o.’d in the
13th , round by Fred Henneberry
(Sydney, Feb. 29, 1932). (2) On
Feb. 4, 1933, in Melbourne, he
won the Australian welterweight
title from Billy Jones (k.o. 10th
round). He outpointed Fred Henne-
berry over 15 rounds (Sept. 18,
1933) twice in 1933-34 outpointed
American Tod Morgan over 15
rounds, stopped Ron Richards in
the 13th round (Sydney, July 23,
1934) twice (Dec., 1935, and Feb.,
“ Don't tell me you forgot my razor-blades !”
1936) outpointed over 15 rounds
Dutchman Bep van Klaveren,
defeated American lzzy Jannazzo
in 10 rounds (Sydney, Dec. 21,
1937) and three limes defeated
American Jimmy Leto (1937-38).
Carroll retired in 1938.
•** * /
When and where was the ship
Pericles lost ?
Pericles, an 11,400-ton steamship
of the Aberdeen White Star Line
bound for London, struck on rocks
off Cape Leeuwin (W.A.) and sank
on the afternoon of March 30,
1910. All the passengers and crew
landed safely in boats.
• * * •
(1) Some information on letter-
press printing ? (2) Is there a
standard-sized mathine to do the
job ?
(l)’On receiving the printing
“forme” from the compositor the
letterpress-printer puts it in correct
position on the bed of the machine
and locks it on securely. He
attaches the desired number of
“make-ready” or “overlay” tympan
sheets to the cylinder of the
machine and, after setting the
inking-rollers and placing ink in
the ink-fountain, takes a trial
impression of the forme to
check on the cdrrect position of
the printing and uniformity of
impression.
When the right printing-position
is ascertained the letterpress-printer
has to adjust color and amount
of ink. As the freshly printed
sheets are delivered from the
machine, he must see that the wet
ink does not set-off on the backs
of neighboring sheets.
(2) There are several types of
machine, ranging from the smallest
platen and cylinder-press to the
large multicolor rotary-cylinder
ones. The two former types are
to be found in the typical com-
mercial letterpress-printing office;
the latter type print from curved
surfaces and are used in the pro-
duction of newspapers and periodi-
cals. The platen and the cylinder
machines print a single sheet of
paper at each impression, whereas
the rotary-press operates on a
continuous reel.
* * * *
A glue that will stick leather to
cardboard?
Dissolve good joiners’ glue
(softened by swelling in water) with
a little turps, and enough water
in an ordinary gluepot. Make a
thick paste by mixing two parts,
by weight, of starch to every one
part, by weight, of dry glue. Allow
the mixture to cool before applica-
tion.
* * * *
» .
(1) When cemented, my water-
tanks leak. Is there a recipe for
home-made cement-sealing paint ?
(2) How are hand-saws sharpened ?
(1) Large holes should be repaired
with iron patches soldered in place.
For small work, there are many
new plastic cements and sealers that
can be used. A stopper, made at
home, can be prepared from 61b.
cement mixed to a puttylike con-
dition in lpt. boiled linseed-oil.
This will keep' for months in a
closed jar; reduce quantities pro-
portionately for small lots. It is
also possible to use a strong
cemeift mixture with water alone,
no sand. All tank repairs should
be done without water in the tank,
and allowed to dry properly before
refilling.
(2) As for the sharpening of
saws, write to a city book-store
for a list of textbooks on the
care of hand-tools, stating your
dxact requirements. >
* * * *
Formula for waterproof white-
wash ?
Dissolve rock-salt in lgal.
cold -water, then pour on to
unslaked lime. Add to lime
water, slowly allowing it to slake.
Apply ilb. cement by sprinkling
on a little at a time when the lime
is almost slaked; stir thoroughly.
The ideal mixture should have
the consistency of thick distemper,
60 a little water may have to be
added to -the last gallon of mix-
ture. One person should stir and
prepare batches of wash, another
should apply it as soon as the lime
is slaked.
Surface to receive the wash
should be free of old flaking lime
o- other washes. Best used during
dull weather, but it may be used,
without ill effect, on a hot, dry day.
It’s advisable to use a troughlike
receptacle for the preparation, since
heat is generated during the slaking
of the lime. Use of a narrow-
mouthed mixing-vessel can easily
result in a mild explosion.
* * * »
Where does the name “Brains
Trust” come from ?
It is a popular name describing
any group of experts who meet
together to give information on
any subject put to them or finding
authoritative answers to current
problems.
The term was originally used to
designate a group- of expert
chosen from academic life,
who assisted President Roosevelt
in his campaign for the U.S. Presi-
dential elections in 1932, and later
in the formulation of the “New
Deal.” “Brains Trust” was the
title of a broadcast-programme
inaugurated by the 8.8. C. on Jan.
1, 1941; this established the term^
Questions were not previously
made known to the “Brains Trust,”
and the answers were impromptu.
Subsequently, the idea has been
extended and developed to stimulate
public discussion of topics, of both
general and technical interest.
* * * •
Outline of the various publishers’
agreements ?
There are four kinds of agree-
ment between authors and pub-
lishers: (1) Outright sale of copy-
right—the publisher pays the author
a sum of money for all rights in
the book. Outright selling, calls
for caution and competent advice;
if a book is in any way datable,
a clause should be inserted in the
agreement making republication
dependent upon the author’s
revision. Most authors would sell
outright only as a last resort. .
(2) Royalty—the most common
form of agreement, generally the
most satisfactory for all types of
books. The royalty is nearly always
a percentage of the published price,
ranging around 10 per cent. Estab-
lished authors get more than
“unknowns.”
(3) Profit-sharing—if an author
can afford to wait for his money,
and if the agreement is properly
drawn-up so that the publisher’s
charges are based on a recognised


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW-
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JAMES CULBERTSON
late of So Old Pittwater Road Brook-
vale.— TAKE NOTICE that IRENE
OCHILTREE ELLIOTT CULBERTSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2413 of 1958 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the. Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Mint Building Macquarie Street, Syd-
ney by 17th October 1958 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from J. BIRNIE JACKSON k COATES,
Solicitors, of 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
J. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANK HETHF.RINGTON late of
77 Stapleton Street Wentworthville
N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that LINDA
MAY HETHERINGTON has filed-a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2062 of 1958 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 2Sth
October 1958 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
ROBERTSON PARK HILL ROFE k
MOFFITT, Solicitors, 79-81 Pitt Street,
Syduev, in the State of New South
Wales.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN RAYMOND KELLY late of
22 Freemans Avenue Canlev Vale. —
TAKE NOTICE that JOYCE JENNA-
LIN'E KELLY has filed a Petition for
Divorce (No. 2857 of 1958) on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court. Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 31st October
1958 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from ALLAN UTHKR &
WEBSTER, Solicitors, of 33 Macquarie
Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
• SOUTH VVALES-7-In Divorce.
TO REGINALD GEORGE JESSE
WOODLANDS—TAKE NOTICE thaj.
ADELE EILEEN CLARE WOODLANDS
has filed a-Petition for Divorce in Suit
No. 470 of 195 g on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards and is asking
for the exercise of the Court’s discretion
under Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matri-
monial Causes Act 1899 If you wish
to defend you may enter an-appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supremo
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney Jiy the 28th day of October
1958 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from TAPERELL &
PETERSEN, Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Missing Friend
WOULD anyone knowing the present
whereabouts of CHARLES JAMES
I.ILLEY, last heard of at . Marrar, via
Bungendorc, N.H.W., in about the year
1927, and dt that time employed in a
road contracting gang, please communi-
cate with J. McD. JONES, Solicitor, 31
Queen Street, Melbourne?
KNITTING
Will you help us make clothes
for some of the thousands of
war - orphaned children in
Korea? The Save the Children
Fund is sponsoring this vital
work. Please contact
Miss L. BLACKMORE,
Flat 2, 74 Cabramatta Road,
Mosman
for wool and other
requirements.
mm
&re //et/o
\
£o
ilg»
■
} m\
s
.
%
y^iiv
l
..
4
WM
W
mmrc l
ill ff c %ol?;*K"s
B >-£N
Oa
deo
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES, DISTILLED & BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
i4rfAur Bell & Sons Ltd., Distillers, Penh, Scotland. Est. 1825
scale, this system will benefit the
author in the case of a successful
book.
(4) Commission —author pays the
cost of production of the book, as
well as giving the publisher a per-
centage commission on sales for
the use of his imprint and distribut-
ing machinery. This method of
securing publication is not recom-
mended except in special circum-
stances./ For any further points,
try Sir Stanley Unwin’s The Truth
About Publishing:;
Brief Answers
J.H.: If the £5OO income from
Commonwealth bonds was the tax-
payer's oqly income, no Australian
tax would be payable at the present
rates of tax. The rebate allowable
on interest from Commonwealth
loans would offset the tax other-
wise payable. But the income would
be liable to U.K. income-tax....
I. For a genuine boomerang,
contact the Church Missionary
Society, Aborigines Committee, 93
Bathurst Street, Sydney. They
stock a number of different types,
including “killer boomerangs,”
made by aborigines on mission
stations in the Roper River area
of the Northern Territory....
W.M.L.: Tyrrell's Pty., Ltd., 202
George Street, Sydney, report that
they have second-hand -copies of
both those books. Price, 12s. 6d.
each... .P.M.: The “Wants” sec-
tion of the Service does not
handle “For Sale” notices....
A.G.: Section 92 of the Common-
wealth Constitution, providing for
absolute freedom in -inter-State
trade, commerce and intercourse,
applies both in peace and war.
Further details can be had from
the Secretary, Attorney-Gdneral's
Department, Canberra, A.C.T......
G.H.0.: From time to time
various organisations and publishers
hold short-story competitions. The
Journalists' Club has just concluded
one, but it will be several years
before the club’s annual award
is available for a short-story....
J. “Meanjin” is a high-quality
quarterly journal of literary
Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, 'and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims which state the
section in which paragraphs
appear and the date of
appearance will be paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
criticism. Founded by its present
editor, C. B. Christesen, in Bris-
bane in 1940, later transferring to
Melbourne, jt is subsidised by the
Commonwealth Literary Fund....
J.H.A.: Some of the figures are
not yet available; they are constantly
changing with new discoveries in
the forestry world. A few months
ago an immense red cedar was felled
on the North Coast of N.S.W., so
large that its first log was too big
for circular-saws and had to be
broken-down by pit-sawing. Its
timber-content has not yet been
published. Suggest you write to
the N.S.W. Forestry Commission,
Division of Wood Technology, 96
Harrington Street, Sydney... .X.X-.:
“Verruca" is a wart. Warts arc
non-malignant growths ' of the
epidermis, soft or hard, from
l/3cm. to 2cm. in diameter. More
common in young subjects than in
old, treatment is usually effected by
corrosive applications, though some-
times excision, cautery electrolysis,
freezing or X-rays are employed.
. ...K.G.C.: Sorry, the booklet
is out of print. ... A.M.C.: (1)
Collectors’ value of the Victorian
Centenary florin is 20s. (2) Value
of Queen Victoria 4d. piece is from
2s. to 2s. 6d., according to con-
dition. (3) As for the 1930 Aus-
tralian Id., the collectors’ value
is 155.-205.... .8.G.: “Exemplary”
should never be used for “excel-
lent.”, That which is exemplary
serves as a model or an example
worthy of imitation; that which is
excellent possesses distinctive merit
or excels that which is good or
praiseworthy. . ,
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
J.L.H.: Yes, but you waste
words. Aim for a more economi-
cal presentation; read some de
Maupassant short-stories for a few
pointers R.R.: The plot is
hackneyed; even so, it could have
been mere convincing... .E.N.:
“Parrakeets” is certainly a
twittery little poem, but that's
its only recommendation... .G.V.:
Thin, but faintly appealing... ,C.H.:
Your “battalion of gossamer-
gliding glow-worms” sped off to the
nearest cave....M.H.: Humdrum
metre.... R.N.8.: It was topical
45 years ago 1.P.: What you
really mean is that Fate has been
unkind to you: a sentiment rightly
expressed in one line B.B.: The
best judges of “Cicada Song” would
surely be the cicadas... .F.C.:
You’ve captured the spirit of a
football-match, but the subsidiary
love - story is meretricious....
F.M.: Try your hand at paragraph-
writing S.S.L.: Not another
swaggie!... .J.J. : “Bullabilla lay
slowly shimmering in the intense
midday heat.” That’s about the
only bit of life in it....K.D.:
Come again, without ambiguity and
cliches... .N.N.: The space-ship
backfired into the basket G.L.:
If you thought it was “only a mere
trifle” why did you send it in?
....W.V.: It has its points; the
third stanza might stand a spot
of overhauling... .K.T.T.: Never
call a story “The Return”: the
temptation is overwhelming.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
A CONSTITUTION FOR FRANCE
HThe tone of most com-
ment on General de Gaulle’s
proposed Constitution for
France is that the pattern is
far from being what the com-
mentators themselves would
recommend, but that it may
suit France, and that, anyway,
the present system having
failed ignominously to give
France stable government, the
proposed one can’t do worse
and may well do better. It is
taken for granted that if the
plan is accepted de Gaulle will
be the first President of the
Fifth Republic. Asking
whether the proposed Con-
stitution will answer France’s
needs, the “Yorkshire Post”
said:
“It is for our French neigh-
bors and not ourselves to
answer that question ; and after
studying this document we may
well be grateful for that. Under
the new plan the French Presi-
dent would become something
much more than a venerable
figurehead: like the President
of the United States he would
be empowered to play a great,
and at times decisive, part in
national affairs. He would be
elected for seven years, and it
would be his prerogative to
appoint the Prime Minister and
to nominate Ministers. He
would have the power to
dissolve Parliament after con-
sulting the Prime Minister and
the Presidents of the two
Assemblies, but need not have
their consent before taking this
step.
“He would have power not
only to ratify international
treaties but to negotiate them.
Parliament would only sit for
half the year ; and (strangest
of all proposals to British ears)
Ministers would not sit in
Parliament, though the -Prime
Minister would be responsible
to it. The intention here, pre-
sumably, is to raise Ministers
above the interminable party
squabbles and manoeuvres
which have done so much to
stultify French Governments in
recent years.
“How far Parliament would
be equipped to play an effective
part and fulfil its responsi-
bilities to the nation in such
circumstances is a matter for
consideration. So is the Prime
Minister’s position in the pro-
posed new set-up. Would a
Premier of independent spirit
and strong initiative find him-
self involved in a continual
struggle with any President who
tended to be dictatorial?
“For the measures designed
to strengthen the hand of the
p rime Minister in fus dealings
with a res tless and divided
Parliament there can be con-
—London “Daily Express ”
“WHAT A COINCIDENCE! EXACTLY MY SIZE!”
fident approval. Under the.
draft - Constitution those
Deputies wishing to secure, a
change of Government must
vote against the existing
Government on any censure
motion; they cannot merely
abstain from voting. If they
abstain they will be counted as
having voted for the Govern-
ment. This would prevent the
overthrow of a Government by
a minority combination which
could not itself expect to form
an alternative Administration.
The soundness of this proposed
reform will be evident fo any-
one familiar with recent French
history.”
“Manchester Guardian” ex-
pressed concern at the vague-
ness of the sections dealing with*
France’s overseas territories
and doubted whether they
were sufficiently flexible to
provide for future political
changes. As to the position in
metropolitan France:
“The draft seems to be an
extraordinary amalgam drawn
from the theory and practice
of various countries, especially
America, and especially from
that most fertile period of Con-
stitution-making, the 18th and
early-19th centuries. A
President chosen by indirect
election, with a nominated
Cabinet whose members do
not sit in Parliament, and a
Parliament that sits for only
half the year these come
straight out of George Washing-
ton’s day.
“What the relative power of
President and Parliament
would be is, however, an open
question. In theory the Presi-
dent’s powers would be still
more sweeping than in the
United States, since he could
dissolve Parliament; ratify
treaties, and, it seems, do with-
out Parliamentary approval for
almost anything except the
Budget (admittedly a large
exception). In practice things
might work out rather differ-
ently. It is a touching hope
that sees future Cabinet
Ministers as dedicated non-
party men just because they
will not depend on either a
popular or a Parliamentary
vote. Yet one of the lessons of
modern French history has been
the endurance of divisions in
the body politic which have
found their expression in
parties. •
“Perhaps the temper of France
is changing; perhaps these
divisions will be smudged out;
perhaps a President will be
able to carry on a firm
Government without a running
battle with the many French-
men who distrust the concentra-
tion of authority. But we may
wonder. If this draft is adopted
the outcome in practice may
well surprise those who hope
to see France governed by a
new and slightly more authori-
tarian George Washington.
General de Gaulle in his sunset
phase may be a good candidate
for the post.
“But France (to say npthing of
Algeria) Seems a poor candidate
for an experiment in holding
the balance between freedom
and paternalism. The balance
is likely to tilt one way or the
the other.”
* * *
Recalling that ex-President
Coty once deplored “the custom
of shooting the pianist when
what is wrong is that the piano
is out of tune,” New York
“Times” said that de Gaulle
hatf not merely set-out to tune
the piano: he was out.to get
a new instrument.
“Politically, the Fourth
.Republic has existed in an
•atmosphere of cynicism,
apathy and disillusionment.
Soon after the war Frenchmen
were already talking as if the
Fourth Republic were an inter-
mission between acts and the
curtain would rise sooner or
later on another scene. The
fault, it was generally stated,
lay in the Constitution of 1946
and the electoral law. The
system ensured weak coalition
Governments dealing with a
powerful but fragmentised
National Assembly, while the
President, instead of being a
true executive, was little more
than a figurehead.
“TO change this Constitution
and to make a new electoral law
eliminating the worst features
of proportional-representation
will not solve France’s political
and colonial problems. The
reforms are necessary pre-
liminaries, but the weaknesses
in France’s internal structure
and the conflicts over Algeria
reflect a division within French
public opinion.
“In a democracy a bad govern-
mental mechanism can work


•i:
kll
Compounded from an old Indian Formula, STRATTONS RHEUMATIC
and ARTHRITIS POWDER contains no harmful drugs, will not affect
the heart and has successfully overcome the most difficult and
obstinate cases when all other treatments have failed. Persons in all
walks of life have found freedom from suffering, and hundreds of
grateful letters from satisfied users have been received by our
Consultant whose Treatment Advice is made available to you
FREE OF CHARGE as part of our Personalised Service which has
revolutionised the treatment of all types of Rheumatism and Arthritis
throughout the Commonwealth.
Four Weeks Treatment complete with Advice and Instructions and a
SPECIAL CONCESSION VOUCHER if your complaint needs further
treatment . . . costs only £1 POST FREE.
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC POWDER Ltd.
» ' ' " 9 Barrack St., Perth, W.A. „
well if the people are united
in their aims or at least willing
to accept the verdict of the
majority or of their elected
officials. By the same token,
the most nearly perfect Consti-
tution will not work if the
people—or a militant minority
—refuse to accept it and make
it work.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman” : “It
has two important features
which would mean a reversion
to an earlier type of Constitu-
tion, common in the mid-19th
century and which generally
—London “Daily Mail
SUMMIT SACK
proved to be transitory.
Power is split between the
President and the Minister,
and the President, who
chooses the Prime Minister,
is elected not by direct
universal suffrage, nor, as
at present, by Parliament,
but by an electoral college in
which the scales will certainly
be weighted on the conservative
side. The Prime Minister will
have to deal with the President
as well as the two Houses,
which, however, would only sit
for half the year. The
Assembly’s only trump would
be the Budget. A year after
an election the President has
power to dissolve the Parlia-
ment, even against the will of
both the Premier and the
Speakers of the two Houses.
“In the event of a persistent
conflict between the Govern-
ment and Parliament—-which
is certain if the composition of
the Government does not
correspond to that of the
majority in Parliament dis-
solution would be the only
alternative to a change of
Government.
“-Yet it would solve nothing,
as would the power of dis-
solution in the hands of a
Prime Minister who was also
a member of Parliament. For
in the latter case the electorate
would be voting for the
Government or for a change
of Government. But under the
proposed Constitution it wouhL
still be up to the President to
choose the Prime Minister.
Either the President would
choose roughly in accordance
with the results of the election
or he would defy them. In
the former case his powers
would seem pointless and in
the latter deplorable. But one
question is still open: Under
what electoral law will the first
elections be held? Much will
depend on this.”
Those Moscow
Demonstrations
It is not often that we hear
of riots in Moscow ; Russian
crowds are too well disciplined
to stage protest - meetings
against the policy of their
Government. Khrushchev’s
denigration of Stalin aroused
no indignant outbursts from
Uncle Joe’s former wor-
shippers, and when Malenkov,
Molotov and Bulganin were
deposed not a window was
broken by their admirers. As
spontaneous and hot-blooded
demonstrators the Russians
are out of practice —40 years
out. For that reason the mob-
demonstrations reported from
Moscow last month didn’t
make much impression /outside
the Iron Curtain. New York
“Herald-Tribune” saw the
riots as a two-edged weapon
—a risky one for the Kremlin
to use:
“For two straight days the
United States Embassy in Mos-
cow was the target of care-
fully orchestrated mob-
violence. Saturday, a crowd
of 100,000 smashed windows
with stones and stained the
walls with ink-bottles. This
barrage, accompanied by a
rain of insults, went on for
more than three hours before
an attempt was made to con-
trol the demonstration. Fortu-
nately, no one inside the
Embassy was hurt.
“The pretext for this childish,
but nonetheless outrageous,
stage-production was the land-
ing of American Marines in
Lebanon. It is the fifth such
exhibition- in a month before
Western Embassies—three at
ours, and one each at the West
German and Danish Embas-
sies, in a reprisal for demon-
strations in Copenhagen and
Bonn protesting against the
Hungarian executions. The
Moscow mob is thus a new
weapon of Soviet policy.
“The elaborate reluctance
of the Moscow police to keep
order on these occasions is
proof enough of their fraudu-
lent character. Their careful
planning is underlined by the
fact that some of Thursday’s
demonstrators carried fishing-
rods and tennis-racquets. The
disappointed sportsmen had
obviously been pressed, at the
last moment, into the service
of Soviet propaganda. Further-
more, the moral fervor
expressed on placards (‘Long
Live Arab Unity,’ ‘Tar and
Feathers for Dulles’) is alien
'to a people who have lived for
40 years under ruthless totali-
tarianism. We hope the official
American protest will point
these things out.
“The Soviet rulers may live
to regret this unchaining of
the mobs in Moscow, no
matter how easily led they are.
A whole generation of Soviet
citizens has grown-up Without
ever having witnessed a popu-
lar demonstration. They may
well acquire a taste for it, and
apply the technique to their
own genuine grievances. The
soul of the mob is treacherous
whim, and the leader of the
morning is midnight’s victim.
“When Caesar was murdered,
the mob howled for a statue
to the glory of Brutus and a
crown for his head. After
listening to another orator, it
ran to burn down his house.”
* * *
The “Herald-Tribune” view
was supported by H. D. Ziman,
who, in a letter to the London
“Daily Telegraph,” told of his
own experience of two Moscow
“demonstrations”:
“I was in Moscow last
month at the time of the
‘demonstrations’ against the
Danish and United States
Embassies arranged as retalia-
tion for the genuine outbursts
of feeling in Copenhagen and
New York about the Hun-
garian executions. (When the
West German Embassy in
Moscow was attacked, I was
away in Leningrad, and have
no direct evidence whether the
crowd was really in an ugly
mood.)
“In each instance the Soviet
Government waited 48 hours
after their mission had been
attacked before publishing an
indignant article in ‘Pravda.’


Then, at lunch-time on the day
that the respective articles
appeared, organised groups of
young factory - hands and
students were marched up
under leaders, with red banners
left over from May Day and
handwritten placards, to make-
a noise and (since Soviet win-
dows had been smashed in
Copenhagen) to smash
windows.
“The Danish Embassy stands
in a narrow street. There were
plenty of uniformed police
there to supervise the opera-
tion and plainclothes men to
divert casual traffic. I saw the
beginning and tail-end of this
‘demonstration,’ which went
on all the afternoon.
“The United States Embassy
faces on one of the widest
streets in Moscow —about 100
yards broad. Here there was
a large cordon of uniformed
police in front of the Embassy
itself and a larger body of
reserves up a cul-de-sac to
make sure that everything wenc
as directed. (Only one enthu-
siast threw a stone that day,
but he missed the window.)
“A large portion ofi the
crowd facing the American
Embassy consisted of sight-
seers like myself, including
several women carrying small
children, and some older people
come to watch the fun. The
shouters, booers and whistlers
—one young lady of about 15
almost split my eardrum —had
clearly been ordered on parade,
and whenever a fresh con-
tingent arrived those already
on the spot were given the
word to let off a fresh lot of
catcalls.
“One Continental diplomat
boldly joined one of the
bands of marchers as they
approached. He was naturally
spotted as a foreigner and
asked if he was American.
When he explained his nation-
ality, the ‘demonstrator’ next
to him said: ‘lt wouldn’t
matter if you were an Ameri-
can. We’Ve got nothing against
them.’
“This good-humored scepti-
cism on the part of the young
people who had been mustered
to take part is probably more
typical of the general feeling
than the violent rage of a taxi-
man whom I engaged later that
afternoon —rage not against
the Americans, but against the
‘vandalism’ of the whole dis-
play. He denounced Mr.
Khrushchev by name and
exclaimed against the hypocrisy
and incompetence of the
regime in terms which would
have been considered excessive
by Mr. Dulles. That really was
spontaneous.”
Food Reserves
The paradox of gluts and
famines existing in different
parts of the world at the same
time has long been one of the
problems of international trade;
in practice the logical solution
of taking the surplus from one
—Washington “Post”
“ I’ll be glad to come, and I’ll
set the date, make up the guest-
list, select the programme,
choose the menu, pick the
music....and then stay away.”
country and dumping it in
another, gives rise to other
problems not so simple of
solution. The U.N. Economic
and Social Council has recently
been discussing the question
and “Manchester Guardian”
comments:
“The United Nations seem at
last to be moving towards a
plan which will make it possible
for poor countries in a bad
season to tap surplus food piled
up in the granaries of wealthier
nations. The economic com-
mittee of its Economic and
Social Council has just
approved a report which invites
interested countries to consult
together about setting up
national food-reserves where
they are needed.
“The question has been con-
sidered intermittently for some
years. Costa Rica proposed
setting up a world food-reserve
in December, 1954. This was
opposed by Britain and the
United States on the ground
that the F.A.O. could already
deal satisfactorily with emerg-
encies ; while a permanent
world reserve might mean the
continuance of ‘structural
surpluses’ and maintenance of
unrealistic commodity - prices.
However, as a recent report by
Dr. Blau, of F.A.0., points out,
there is little reason to suppose
that countries which have in the
past been unable to build up
their own reserves by commer-
cial means will find it any
easier to do so in the future.
"Meanwhile, it is clear that
some national reserves are
necessary, both to meet sudden
shortages and consequent
drastic increases in price,
caused by local crop-failures,
and to take the first strain of
the increased demand which
economic development can be
expected to bring. The scheme
now being discussed for
national reserves might meet
the need. But a world reserve
may be a better answer in the
long run, if the original British
objection was met, by provid-
ing that its funds could not
be used to buy-up surpluses
over and above what was
statistically likely to be needed,
and also that the countries
using it paid something towards
the cost.
“The thing to aim at seems to
be a reserve run on insurance
principles. Countries might
contribute towards its cost, not
on the basis of population (that
would weigh too heavily on the
poorest countries, which need
it most), but, say, on the basis
of per capita national income.
This is at least a possibility
which the Economic and Social
Council should investigate.”
U.S.- Canadian
Relations
It is a proud boast of
both Canadian and United
States citizens that their
common border is the longest
undefended frontier in the
-Washington “Post”
“UP?”
world. In the last few, years,
however, Canadians have
become somewhat perturbed at
dimensions of what has been
termed the American financial
invasion. It was to discuss
questions arising out of this
that President Eisenhower
visited Ottawa last month.
Commenting on Eisenhower’s
conference with Premier
Diefenbaker, “New York
Times” said that it produced
fewer platitudes than was usual
when the two countries got
together, but even so, the
results were hardly startling:
“We would not have any
trouble with the Canadians, nor
they with us, if it were not for
certain economic difficulties
that arise out of our continental
situation. Both the United
States and Canada produce
wheat and both export it. The
Canadians have feared, per-
haps mistakenly, that if we give
away surplus wheat, or sell it
below the market-price, or
exchange it for evidence of
debt, we are undercutting the
market for Canadian wheat.*
“During the last decade there
has been a considerable growth
in the trade between the United
States and Canada. In 1950
the books almost balanced. To-
day we are selling about a
billion [U.S.] dollars a year
more to Canada than we are
buying from Canada. One way
to correct this lack of balance is
to invest United States capital.
At present it is estimated that
we have close to $l2 billion of
private capital in Canada, and
that we have control of more
than half of her oil, natural-
gas, non-ferrous metals, rubber-
products and motor-vehicle
factories. Much of this United
States business in Canada is
conducted through subsidiaries
of United States corporations.
It seems to some. Canadians
that we have come near to
making Canada an economic
dependency.
“Another cause of friction
has been the difference off
opinion between Washington
and Ottawa as to trade with
Red China and other Commu-
nist-controlled countries. Parent
corporations in the United
States have been discouraged
by laws in this country from
permitting their Canadian sub-
sidiaries to sell certain goods
to the Red Chinese. Prime
Minister Diefenbaker is now
convinced this trouble will be
ironed-out.
“It was quite certain that a
high degree of spontaneous
friendliness existed at Ottawa.
Why not? There is no black
magic in international
boundaries. If the State of New
York can get on with Georgia
or California, there is no reason
why the United States and
Canada, despite some economic
rivalries, should not continue
on easy terms with each other.”
* * *
“Time and Tide” : “President
Eisenhower was ill-advised to
deliver a fairly stiff lecture to
the Canadians. Even his critics.


WUNDERLICH SINKS
'''' ' ’' a ' V '''' *
£ them oil
/////MUUWV
M ,
%
m.
m
w
The
NEW
STAINLESS
STEEL
62 S 2
SINKS
Tho brilliant NEW range of Wunderlich
Stainless Steel Sinks combines every modern
improvement in sink design. Glistening
high-shine finish, inbuilt quick-drainage
falls in bowls and drainers, anti-spill
beading on all sides, and one-piece
practical size round cornered bowls. Avail-
able with timber backing for easy fixing
over new or old cupboarding or unbacked,
if required. See the NEW Wunderlich Sinks
at your hardware store, Phone MX 2411, or
write to Wunderlich Ltd., Box 474, G.P.0.,
Sydney, for illustrated price list.
SEE THEM AT YOUR HARDWARE STORE
and they are numerous, have
always conceded his talent for
smoothing over personal diffi-
culties, but that talent deserted
him in Ottawa. The new
Canadian Government secured
its huge majority precisely
because it promised to stand up
firmly against alleged American
economic infiltration and unfair
discrimination.
“No American leader could
be expected to like the
Canadian project of diverting
a large part of her trade from
the United States to Britain,
but moralistic lectures on the
duty to liberalise trade are a
good deal worse than useless,
for the same kind of lecture
could be addressed with point
and purpose to America’s own
practices. Although something
has been done by Washington
in the way of reducing tariffs,
the American mood is still
highly protectionist, and,
although there is undoubtedly
a benevolent motive behind the
sale of surplus American food
abroad, the surpluses exist
because of massive subsidies,
and the Canadians naturally
feel that their own farmers are
being undercut by dumping.
“Canadian suspicion of the
United States has deep historic
roots, and it is a pity that it
should have been strengthened
at a time when the two countries
were celebrating a remarkable
example of international
partnership in the St. Lawrence
Waterway. That is not to say
that all of the President’s
strictures were themselves un-
justified. America’s growth to
gigantic economic strength was
much aided by the investment
of foreign capital, which was
gladly received and which did
more long-run good to the
United States than it did to the
investor. Economic nationalism
is in no sense good business,
but the feeling is strong, and it
was not for the Head of a
foreign State to pontificate on
the subject, especially when his
o\vn State is far from guiltless.”
* * *
Walter Lippman. in the New
York “Herald Tribune” said
that the crux of the problem is
that whilst the Canadian
economy is highly vulnerable
to what is done in the United
States, the American Govern-
ment and American public
opinion are “inattentive and
absentminded about what
happens in Canada”:
“The real long-term problem
of disparity in size, combined
with American inattention, is
not going to be solved by
occasional meetings at or near
the summit, and for the rest by
conventional diplomatic inter-
course. We have to open our
minds, I am inclined to think,
to the task of creating some
kind of new organ, a joint
political institution which has
enough authority to make both
Governments listen.
“The chief reason for think-
ing that the existing diplomatic
machinery is not adequate lies
in the radical difference between
the Canadian and the American
forms of representative govern-
ment. At the meeting in Ottawa,
for example, Mr. Eisenhower
had nothing like the power to
negotiate which Mr. Diefen-
baker possesses. The Prime
Minister could commit his
Government. The President,
who outranks him, does not
control Congress and could not
commit the American Govern-
ment. ...
“Obviously, neither country
is going to change its form of
government. Obviously also, it
is not possible for the Congress
of the United States to nego-
tiate with the Canadian Govern-
ment. This leads me to think
that it might prove to be
relevant and useful to establish
a permanent joint institution, in
the nature of two delegations
from the two Governments, and
with a joint secretariat.
“I do not think of the
institution as having supra-
national powers, like the
European Coal and Steel Com-
munity, but as having the right
by treaty and by law to report
on the complaints, to give
advice and to make proposals
which, it would be agreed, were
to be taken seriously by both
Governments.”
Would-be Neutrals
Please Note
Writing from Vienna,
Gordon Shepherd told London
“Daily Telegraph” that the
suggestion that Lebanon and
other Middle East countries
might be given an Austrian-
like neutrality should be con-
sidered in the light of the
experiences of a team of
Austrian Ministers, under
Chancellor Julius Raab, who
visited Moscow last month:
“The delegation spent exactly
80 minutes of its seven days
in formal negotiations. The
other 100 hours of working-
time were taken up with recep-
tions, sightseeing and those
private chats in microphoned
country-houses near Moscow
so dear to Mr. Khrushchev’s
heart.
“How do the dividends from
this lopsided timetable balance
out? In the two formal sessions
round the Kremlin conference-
table the Austrians had con-
firmed what had been in-
formally promised long before
they left Vienna —a cut in the
million tons of oil which they
must deliver to Russia every
year until 1965 under the State
Treaty provisions. But the
Russians gave an unexpected
and unwelcome twist to this
gesture.
“Austria must continue to
send a third of her oil output
eastwards, where, at the Krem-
lin’s behest, it goes to the fuel-
starved economies of Czecho-
slovakia and East Germany.
In future, however, Russia will
compensate Austria for half of
these deliveries by sending
500,000 tons a year of Soviet
oil ail the way from the Black
Sea up the Danube to Vienna.
“Even the well-drilled Aus-
trian Coalition press has had
trouble in finding a reassuring
explanation for this procedure.
The plain fact is that Austria
for the next seven years is
dependent on regular supplies
from Russia before she can
reap any benefit from the
overall improvement in her oil-
balance.
“Here is the first lesson for
potential neutrals. Even during
the friendliest embrace from
the Russian bear one can still
feel the claws in one’s back.”
Various Voices
Lord Strang (forme* Perma-
nent Under - Secretary for
Foreign Affairs): “I have never
been an enthusiastic advocate
of summit conferences. They
had their uses in the war, but,
whether at Yalta, Potsdam, or
Geneva, they left a trail of
misunderstanding behind them.
It seems contrary to good
sense that statesmen should
have to juggle with the lives
of their countries in conditions
of intense publicity.”
* * *
“Pendennis,” in London
“Observer” : “Ever since Roose-
velt was left alone with Stalin at
Yalta there has been ail
unstated rule for [American]
Foreign Secretaries: Don’t
leave ageing Presidents alone
with Russians.”


BALD PATCHES
Tlair grown secret formula
Sacred Eastern Oils. Rarely
fails. Treats Alopecia. Reading
broadcaster’s liair grown after
years of Baldness. Effective
treatment for dandruff (Basic
cause of nearly all hair sick-
ness), and stops falling hair.
My herbal treatment restores
grey hair -to original colour.
Not a dye—not injurious, not
obvious Names given of lead-
ing citizens (with their per-
mission) who gratefully testify.
My treatment used in privacy
of your home.
For free advice write—
MRS. A. EASTON,
Box 5204, G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Coaching and Education
Speaking at a lunch-time
radio-session a while back, a
representative from a coach-
ing-college said: “Eight-
hundred fully qualified teachers
are at your disposal.” So many
teachers at the disposal of the
bidder and a shortage of
teachers in State schools!
Granted that coaching is in
cases desirable and even neces-
sary, is big-business coaching
in the interests of true educa-
tion? A child’s capacity for
work is limited, and his capacity
is overtaxed if, in addition to
school homework, he attends
classes and does homework for
the college. Something must
suffer. Will it be the college-
work, for which hard cash is
being paid?
And who are these fully
qualified teachers ? How many
of them devote their whole
service to the coaching-college?
How many share their service
with a full-time teaching career
in our State schools? Surely
none come under this second
category, since no self-respect-
ing teachers, claiming profes-
sional status, would place them-
selves on the disposal-market.
Even if they would, public-
service regulations stipulate
that teachers must not engage
in outside activities that are
likely to lower efficiency in the
classroom, and teachers
engaged for evening classes
must conform to certain rules.
Most teachers admit that 9 to
3.30 is long enough for a good
day’s work.
Think of the taxation on a
salary from the Department
plus an extra £l5 per week —
this is the fee offered to
teachers. And the N.S.W.
Teachers’ Federation has con-
demned the practice of giving
pupils in State schools tuition
after school-hours.
I doubt whether our teachers
are engaged in this high-
pressure disposal, but our
educational system is being
eaten into by borers. —Anti-
Cram (N.S.W.).
Subsidy on Butter
The Victorian dairyfarmer
seems never to be satisfied.
For some years he has had
a subsidy of 6d. a lb. on
commercial butter, equivalent
“Base to Trainer J12 —unidentified object in your area—
endeavor to locate and follow. ...”
to 7id. a lb. of butterfat, paid
by the Federal Government.
Instead of being grateful for
this charitable hand-out, he is
abusing the Government for
not increasing it! The Vic-
torian Dairymen’s Association
says that it wants the cost of
production plus 20 per cent.
How is the cost-of-production
figure arrived at?
While farmers in Victoria
were holding protest-meetings
and moaning about “lowering
the standards of living of the
dairyfarmer” a report appeared
in a Melbourne paper: the
record price of £lB5 an acre
had been paid for dairying-
land in Gippsland (not many
years ago £6O was a record
price in the same district).
At 6 per cent, this means
£7 10s. a year. And 250-2601 b.
butterfat per cow, one cow
per acre, is a fair figure for
the district concerned ; the
difference between £6O an acre,
when there was no subsidy, and
£lB5 with the present subsidy
absorbs the present subsidy of
approximately 7|d. a lb. of
butterfat. The official report
staled “there was strong com-
petition for the property,” and
it was sold to a local farmer.
A further subsidy-increase
would probably boost boom-
prices.
This vicious circle has been
spiralling for 40 years. The
farmer pays a high price for
land ; moans for an increased
price ; gets it; sells to a mug
at a still higher price and then
the moans start again. It’s
time the Federal Government
woke-up to these mendicants.
—Murray Swagman (S.A.).
A Greek or a Greek?
It would be charitable to
presume that it was not really
Minister for Migration Dow-
ner who thought-up the
pompous phrase that “a
balanced migration-programme
must be maintained” in reply
to a request that Basile
Zachariou, a 23-year-old Greek
commercial artist, should be
permitted to remain in Mel-
bourne. The words have a
stately, departmental ring, but
they appear as Downer’s.
Zachariou came to Aus-
tralia as a tourist to see the
Olympic Games. He has
received six extensions to his
permit, but now has been told
he must go by September 9.
He has done very well in Mel-
bourne and has weighty sup-
porters, including the Athenian
Society, which has offered the
Government any guarantees
required. Seemingly the depart-
ment prefers a Greek as yet
unknown. This would presum-
ably preserve the Balanced
Migration programme.—C. S.
(Vic.).
Wool Futures
In B. 30/7/’5B “Jackpot”
challenges an earlier letter by
P R. Rogers, who contended
that the only remedy for wool-
price instability would be to
introduce a basic foundation
to the wool-market by means
of a minimum reserve-price.
According ft “Jackpot” this
is practically unworkable ; he
says that woolgrowers, noting
the unhappy results of various
marketing - plans for other
products, would want no such
schemes for wool.
Weil, what other products?
Would other producers volun-
tarily discard the various safe-
] guards and agreements designed
for their protection? Would
the wheatgrowers be prepared
to scrap the present marketing-
agreement and return to a
trade controlled by the wheat-
merchants? Wool is the only
important raw material in
world-trade which continues
to be sold under a century-old
system.
P. R. Rogers hits the nail
on the head. There is no
cumbersome machinery or
excessive control necessary for
a floor-price. The machinery
was in existence, the controls
had operated for five years
under a Joint Organisation,
with the growers hardly realis-
ing that J.O. existed. Capital
was already provided ; but the
Australian growers fell for
those same false arguments,
plus the assurance that hard
times would never return
again. New Zealand and
South Africa were wiser.
They retained their capital,
and today carry on alone a
task made infinitely more
difficult by Australia’s defec-
tion.
“Jackpot” advocates a
grower-organisation to buy on
the futures market when the
“bears” appear to be operat-
ing. This is described as
“meeting them on their own
ground.” Surely it would be
better to meet them at the


Established 1868
Cont'actors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Aushalia
JACKSON &
O'SUL UVam
PTYLTD '
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, FapSr Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and, Cables
"JACKSUL," BRISBANE
point where the growers have
the physical possession of the
commodity itself, rather than
enter into a paper-chase with
wool-contracts?
It is true that if it became
a rule, rather than the rare
exception it is at present, for
the actual tops to be delivered
in the terms of the contract,
the speculative element in the
futures market would be
greatly minimised. —F. Eric
Hitchens (W.A.).
Catchment Erosion
It's over 60 years since I
first had experience in the
Kosciusko country, which is
totally different from Upper
Wontagong. Similar condi-
tions do not apply (H. A. Lind-
say, B. 30/7/’5B).
At Upper Wontagong a light
fall of snow might come once
in a season, but it would melt
almost as it fell. In the
Kosciusko country accumula-
tions of bark, leaves and
rotting snow-grass come away
with the first melting of snow
and do far more towards
blocking-up the channels than
all the soil-erosion imaginable.
Fires don’t burn with the
same force as in the lower
country; consequently little
harm is done to standing
timber. After burning two or
three times and then grazing,
the country improves wonder-
fully and thicker grass prevents
stock causing erosion when
grazing, as they would in the
lower country in drought-time.
In all the years I was in that
country I never saw it flogged
out bare. But I am afraid that
unless they burn the rubbish
the penny-wise and pound-
foolish will find the boot is on
the other foot. —R.A.M.C.
(N.S.W.).
Scholarships and Quotas
On the same day that Sir
Arthur Fadden in his Federal
Budget speech mentioned the
provision of new Common-
wealth scholarships for
graduates, restrictive quotas in
several faculties were
announced by the University ol
Melbourne.
Enrolment-quotas are to be
imposed on the faculties of
engineering, agricultural-
science, economics and com-
merce, and dental science, and
there will be limitations for
enrolments in 13 science-
subjects.
The University, of course,
cannot be blamed for this
decision: it has struggled for
years properly to house in-
creased numbers. But it is
surely a reflection upon the
community if students who
have qualified by years of hard
study are turned away.
With a national dearth of
scientists, engineers and highly-
trained men and women,
it seems that ambitious
students are being thwarted.
Increasing scholarship facilities
for graduates is praise-
worthy, but it doesn’t help
the young chap who is
told: “Sorry —no room.” If
increasing the number of
highly-trained men and women
is as important to national pro-
gress as has been widely
claimed, the matter should be
treated as one of top-flight
urgency— Wusslean (Vic.).
Railways Lighting
Hold on, “Acolyte” (B.
6/8/’58)! Poor or dim lighting
of railway-stations is a “parsi-
monious railway tradition.”
Lights on suburban railway-
platforms and precincts are
seldom switched-on until it’s
pretty dark and are cut-off a
few minutes after the first light
of morning.
And in electric-trains this
grudging economy of lighting
reaches its peak. Drivers, who
control car-lighting, nearly
always deprive passengers of
enough light for comfortable
reading during early and late
daytime-hours (especially on
very overcast days), except
while passing under wide over-
heads or tunnels, when the
carriage glows like a Christmas-
tree.
Much brighter, properly
shaded lighting of railway-
stations wouldn’t affect the
night-vision of train-drivers.
All trains and drivers are
guided by the red, green and
orange signal-lights, all hooded
to be clearly visible, even at
high-noon on the brightest day.
Drivers of fast trains, day or
night, depend on their sighting
of these signal-lights. If
drivers of night trains were
expected to rely on their own
vision, speeds of more than
10 m.p.h. would be impossible.
—P. O. M. C. (N.S.W.).
The Useless Guided Missiles
According to the cables, a
group of Eton youngsters have
disproved the guided-missile
theories of Dr. Barnes Wallis ;
they convinced the designer of
the Ruhr dam-busting skip-
bombs that any bomber
equipped with radar could
evade a guided-missile.
The disclosure, the report
continued, led the British
Government to reconsider its
£5O - million -a - year guided-
missile programme.
The boys, of course, are dead
right. The surprising thing is, if
the report is correct, that Dr.
Barnes Wallis hadn't heard
about it.
It was known eight years
ago that a manned bomber with
full radar protection could
evade any guided- or target-
attracted weapon by playing
“chicken” with it.
Today the position remains
the same. Any modern radar-
equipped piloted aircraft can
dodge a robot vehicle. Every
possible, device has been tried.
The world-cost in this field to-
date would be of the order of
£2OOO million.
Ingenious as is the control-
gear in these weapons, none
can (and none will ever be able
to) think and anticipate.
We know a lot about high-
speed digital calculators, elec-
tronic sequence-controlled com-
putors and the programming
of these machines. Their opera-
tion is similar to the function-
ing of guided-missile controls.
They are inanimate heaps of
junk unless fed with carefully
prepared data. If there is a
gross error in the input-feed
the machine will certainly
carry it through to the output
side.
In the air a plane can watch a
missile make its approach and
then drop under it or do a
roll over it. By the time the
sequence-controlled gear gets
into operation the plane is
miles away on another course
and the misuided robot is out
of fuel.
J’ll back the strato-iet
bomber and the submarine
against any unmanned weapon
ever likely to be conceived.
We just can’t build ersatz
brains! — Old Opencut (S.A.).
Mail-sorting
In his comments on mail-
sorters (B. 30/7/*5B) “Mugga
Way” unjustly slurs a body of
efficient men.
Having spent a lifetime in the
mail branch I know something
of the standard required.
Sorters, or mail-officers as they
are now designated, are
selected for promotion from
postal-officers, motor-drivers,


storemen and others, and are
trained in a special school for
about eight weeks.
At the end of this period
they are given a sorting-test
before being qualified for
promotion to mail-officer. This
test involves the sorting of 500
prepared envelopes in 14
minutes —an average rate of
36 per minute, with a margin
of two errors. Later they have
to complete this test without
error. As well, they have to
know postal-rates, classification
of mail matter, preparation of
mails, etc.
I have unofficially checked
a number of mail-officers’
sorting-rates, on both the old
sorting-frames and the newer
sorting-machines, and have
found that the majority are
sorting between 58 and 60
letters a minute—well above
the standard called for. These
officers were not told they were
being checked, so there was no
suggestion of speeding-up for
the occasion. And this rate was
maintained for an hour or
more! —Sorter (W.A.).
New Guinea’s Natives
I can't understand why
natives in Papua-New Guinea
pay the same poll-tax as Euro-
peans—irrespective of what
the native earns or even con-
sidering the fact that, in hard-
ship cases, they may claim
exemption, or that inland
natives, with no earning-
capacity, are excused payment.
It is argued that the white
resident pays many more
indirect taxes ; but what about
the dark fellow? Every meal
he has, every tomahawk ne
buys helps the general revenue
of the Territory by adding to
the import-duties. In .Sir
Hubert Murray’s day we
collected a yearly native-taxa-
tion payment, 10 s. to 205.,
but only from those able to
pay and living in proclaimed
taxation-districts. Excluding
some £4OOO annually for the
cost of collection, all native-
taxation funds went not to
general revenue but into a
trust-fund to be used solely for
native welfare.
As a district magistrate
many were the dozen packets of
seeds I distributed to the
villagers to improve their food-
supply ; many a dozen of the
best orange-trees I put in the
native groves. From the taxa-
tion-fund I’ve ordered spear-
pumps and spent hours putting
them in to give the villagers
reasonably clean drinking-
water—l even had a native
mechanic, paid by taxation, to
service these pumps regularly.
Natives above 36 were not
required to pay tax, and in my
districts I would never tax an
apparently fit native if he was
not passed as fit by the M.O.
No, the present poll-tax does
not appeal to my sense of fair-
ness in any way. — One Who
Knows (New Guinea).
Butter or Margarine?
Australian dairymen seem to
be showing the world there’s
no law of supply-and-demand.
Their major product is facing
serious competition from mar-
garine ; the price of overseas
butter is at an extreme post-
war “low.” Despite this they
have increased the. price of
home-consumption butter by
2d. per pound, instead of
reducing it to boost sales on
the best market.
None but the dairymen
themselves will lose by this
action. The increase, which
will add to the basic-wage in
most States, will really reduce
living-costs of most wage-
earners by promoting a greater
use of margarine at 2s. per
pound less than butter.—Wu
Foo (Q.).
Paying for Water
Sydney Water Board’s
method of raising revenue
certainly raises a few questions.
Properties are rated on their
rental value, determined by the
Valuer-General, but in the case
of unmetered properties—a vast
number—taking no account of
amount of water used. Two
neighbors with equally valued
properties pay the same, yet
one may use four times more
water.
My own charge is nearly
twice last year’s, thanks to the
V.-G., though water-consump-
tion has actually been less. And
to assist construction-work in
outer suburbs the board makes
people in developed areas pay
higher rates than would other-
wise be necessary.
A reasonable way of charg-
ing would be on the lines of
the electricity- and gas-services
—amount used. - JFarinmail
(N.S.W.).
A. of Diction
Most of us didn’t need
Malcolm Muggeridge to tell us
that the A.B.C. is almost an
antipodean carbon-copy of the
B. but “Pip Tok” (B.
6/8/’5B) refreshes our memory.
Clearly, the A.B.C. has been
self-conscious about its news-
readers. Having weeded-out the
most offensive, it has tried to
harmonise the remainder. Some
of the readers are clear enough
to make the commercial-station
grade: but would they be first-
choice if the market was
glutted?
“Pip Tok” negates his own
argument when he says the
A.B.C. and 8.8. C. policies
seem to be identical. He also
observes that when an A.B.C.
news-reader is programmed
immediately after a 8.8. C.
reader “anyone not knowing
the order of the programme
would find difficulty in picking
the English reader from the
Australian.” I’d say any Aus-
tralian who sounds like his
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 500
Down
1— Notorious patriotic talk of a noisy kind. (8)
2 Portions of mutton defences. (8)
3 Decorate Ada Reeve’s monogram in England. (9)
4 Bird starts dressing. (6)
6 Conductor gives this round of a copper defeat. (4)
7 Peculiarly it’s now due, but not due at all. (6)
8— Don’t fail to imitate Caruso plying with medicine. (6)
9 -Arouses antagonism, but not on deaths. (7)
16 —The woman’s East Indian saint who is a specialist in
medicine. (9)
17 — Flower to intimidate a fields-
man. (7)
18 — Flabbergast regarding a Serbian
town. (8)
19— Flowers for the waist crescent or
wise men. (8)
22 Less circumspect complement to
a fried egg. (6)
23 Origin of course. (6)
24 — Universal comics are dis-
orderly. (6)
27-—A-thousand which is remote from
the holding of a yeoman. (4)
Across
I—Lays off a reference to the scene
of Goldilocks’s trespassing. (8)
s—Teem5 —Teem with part of a kangaroo’s
progress. (6)
10 — The face of the Jolson material
used in Solomon’s temple. (5)
11 — flitter herbs which are yellow-
brown beef. (9)
12 — Back to the mountains; revises
the disposition. (10)
13 — Thin list. (4)
14 — N. America is more abbreviated
than a functionary at Solomon’s
coronation. (6)
15 — “Westward Ho” with a Gil-
bertian feminist for the westward
state of the West. (5)
20 — Soda I mixed for a Spaniard’s
farewell. (5)
21 — Slave backed a firm mural. (6)
25 — Berserk for half a day, but not
without approval. (4)
26 —Mouthless like the love-apple
associated with you and me. (10)
28 — Source of 16-down’s remedies is
in her element. (9)
29 — Sugaring over the French here,
and the New Guinea follow-
ing. (5)
30— Joan of Arc made a convert
here; and I’m hers, though not
straightforwardly. (6)
31 — Inflicts injuries on spots. (8)
Solution to Crossword No. 499


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established IB~S
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. O. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
English equivalent is “affected.”
8.8. C. news-diction has a
histrionic quality. A national
radio would exceed its authority
if it sought to reflect any other
but the country’s native con-
science ; 8.8. C.-ism may be
appropriate for Britain, but
transplanted to Australia it
comes close to pomposity.—-
Acolyte (N.S.W.).
Buy Dutch New Guinea
What’s wrong with Australia
offering to buy West New
Guinea from the Dutch, as has
been suggested by Killen,
M.H.R.? There’s nothing new
in the matter of purchase ;
Alaska, Louisiana and other
places were bought. Now that
the Dutch have lost the N.E.I.
surely they would be only too
pleased to let us have their half
of the island of New Guinea.
They have never done much
opening-up of their portion,
nor has their native-welfare
work been extensive. I doubt
if they have the trained staff,
whereas we have scores of
young men who can carry on
the Hubert Murray tradition
for many years. As an old
“Murray Man” I welcome Mr.
Killen’s suggestion. Sanasi
(Q-).
Weather-control
Intense thought on both
sides of the Iron Curtain is
being given to weather-control.
Has nobody stopped to think
what could happen to Australia
if scientists, whether Russian,
American or C.5.1.R.0., suc-
ceed?
We have been allowed the
tenancy of this continent only
because it is mostly desert ; if
the luck of the draw should
turn the arid hinterland into a
Garden of Eden we could be
in a dangerous position.—
Forthcon (N.S.W.).
Aborigines
It’s all very well for a
Westralian Parliamentary com-
mittee to criticise Canberra’s
lack of interest in W.A. natives,
and to cite the Declaration of
Human Rights, but, as the
committee members well know,
the Commonwealth has no
power to interfere in caring
for aborigines in any State, no
matter how neglected or in
need of help they may be.
The Commonwealth spends
£125 a head each year on
aborigines in the Northern
Territory, and there may be a
case for a grant for W.A.
But the real solution, if there
is one, surely lies in allowing
Canberra to take full respon-
sibility for all aborigines and
half-bloods throughout Aus-
tralia, and seeking to imple-
ment completely its policy
of assimilation. Stromlo
(A.C.T.).
A Queen and Wool
Philippa of Hainault, consort
of Edward the Third, mother
of the Black Prince and the
famous John of Gaunt (Ghent),
is remembered mainly for her
dramatic intercession on behalf
of the burghers of Calais, but
“Very unusual mystery —the reader is the victim ."
she has other claims to fame.
Married to Edward at 14 (he
was 16 and it was a genuine
love-match), she travelled with
him on many of his extensive
wanderings, governed for him
at home when she didn’t
accompany him, and, because
she possessed brains as well
as beauty, undoubtedly
influenced his policy.
In those days (600 years ago)
the quality of English wool was
renowned throughout Europe.
Yet, though English sheep grew
the wool, it was not the English
people but those of Flanders
who amassed wealth from
its sale. Shrewd Flemish
merchants paid as low a price
as possible for the commodity,
then made huge profits on the
articles they manufactured
from it. The Duke of
Burgundy (so important was
the woollen industry to his
subjects) had actually instituted
the Order of the Golden
Fleece. As Fuller laments, “The
fleece was ours, but the gold
was theirs.”
Probably on the initiative
of the Flemish-born Queen
Philippa, this state of affairs
was shortly to be changed.
“Why, when we produce the
wool,” was, in effect, her own
and her husband’s question,
“should Netherlanders make
the money?” If the English
could be trained to process their
wool and make it into garments
and decorations, then the profits
would find their way into
English pockets and banks.
Before this could be done the
English must first learn to
weave as well as the Flemish,
so, decided Edward and
Philippa, the sensible thing to
do w T as to entice numbers of
Flemish weavers from their
homeland and settle them com-
fortably in England. At once
the King wrote to one John
Kempe in Flanders promising
“that if he will come to Eng-
land with his servants and
apprentices, his goods and
chattels, dyers and fullers and
exercise their mysteries in the
kingdom they shall have letters
of protection and assistance in
their settlements!”
The royal invitation was
accepted, and soon colonies of
Flemish craftsmen and mer-
chants had settled in Norwich
and York. From the time of
their arrival the newcomers
received frequent visits from
the Queen, who busied herself
making plans for the expansion
of their trade. She realised
that if the new industry was
to flourish it needed all the
stimulation it could get from
those in high places.
Philippa herself ordered
every imaginable type of dress
and cloak to be made from
the new English cloth and
wholeheartedly “modelled"
them. The Court was not far
behind in adopting the novel
fashions, which, in no time,
percolated down into the
middle-classes and found their
way across to the Continent.
Never (if we are to believe a
contemporary writer) were
more amazing garments in
evidence ; but the day was won.
English woollen manufactures
had come to stay.
“Blessed be the memory of
Philippa of Hainault,” indited
one monastic chronicler (for-
getting the story of Adam and
Eve and the fig-leaves), “who
first invented clothes.” She did
nothing of the kind, qf course,
but she and Edward had
probably more to do with
establishing the British cloth-
ing industry than any others.
Somewhere in this story, I
feel, there might perhaps be a
lesson for us. Ma IT R I
(N.S.W.).
Refs, and the Ringside
Well may fight-promoters
ask: “What’s happening to the
crowds?” Apart from a scarcity
of top-flight local pugs in the
heavy divisions, isn’t unsatis-
factory refereeing a probable
cause? No patron will go
to a fight if he is unsure
whether the decision will go
to the right chap.
Take the recent fight in which
Billy Stanley (Aust.) got the
verdict over A 1 Williams
(America): this was greeted by
one of the worst demonstrations
ever witnessed at Sydney
Stadium. The ref.’s decision
was hooted and catcalled by
3000-odd fans. Surely some
of the jeerers could have been
justified?
Why don’t promoters have a
go at importing a few leading
refs, from America or England
and see how they fare with the
Australian public?— Frangeo
(N.S.W.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
CAMPASPE PROJECT
'T'he other day I visited the
watershed of the upper
Campaspe, a stretch of about
300,000 acres south-west of the
Heathcote-Bendigo Road, some
60 miles from Melbourne. A
Parliamentary Public Works
Committee is about to con-
sider building the Eppalock
Dam, and this area would
comprise a large part of the
catchment.
I was particularly interested
in this district because after
studying the chapter on Glen-
bawn Dam in Yeomans's
Challenge of Landscape I
wanted to see if his arguments
against large dams for flood-
control applied to the Eppa-
lock project.
The actual shape of the land
was not unattractive, but most
of it seemed to be dissolving
away. Having grown-up in the
County of Cumberland
(N.S.W.), I was not exactly
new to sheet-erosion, but I’d
never seen it on this scale
before. Here were classic
examples of all types of
erosion, and all on a moder-
Unless extreme care is
taken high mortality
can occur if sheep are
given drenches of
arsenical preparations.
Any sediment remain-
ing after the prepara-
tion has been made
should be strained
through cloth and
buried, and any
drench remaining
after use should be
thrown away if a sedi-
ment is noticed. To
reduce the dangers of
disease, fiy-strike, set-
back and shock, lambs
should be marked and
tailed with Elastrator
Rubber Rings.
ately undulating countryside
with a rainfall of little over
20in. As far as I could see,
nothing was being done about
it except for a few abandoned
attempts at contour-furrowing.
I was amazed that close to
Melbourne in a relatively high
rainfall there were great
areas, known derisively as
“lizard country,” with a
maximum safe carrying-
capacity of one sheep to four
acres, and getting worse each
year.
I saw only one instance of
positive action against erosion.
The Ross brothers, of Mia
Mia, third-generation land-
holders, are putting into effect
their modified version of two
well - advertised methods —
Keyline and the Pittman
Technique. (For the history
of the latter, see B. 4/1/’56.)
The country is highly acid,
so the conventional “super.-
and sub.-broadcast” treatment
doesn’t do much good because
of poor nodulation —the Pitt-
man Technique takes care of
this. The surface is very sub-
ject to sheet-erosion, and once-
over with a chisel-plough on
the Keyline pattern is the
quick, cheap way of checking
this. By combining the two
operations in one, sod-seeding
or chisel-seeding a Pittman
mixture direct into these
eroded slopes on the Key-
line, regeneration of the area
can begin immediately.
This is the recipe: Take
3cwt. equal parts of lime and
super, with 2oz. of molyb-
denum and 31b. of sub.-clover,
properly and heavily inocu-
lated with the correct rhizobia,
plus lib. of phalaris. Place
these in the appropriate com-
partments of a chisel-seeder
and drill this mixture at 12in.
centres in tight bands directly
behind and in the furrow made
by the chisel-tines. If the
correct Keyline method is not
understood, fit a contour-
indicator to the tractor and
strike out the first run on the
contour. Parallel this run
thereafter until the furrows are
obviously well off the contour
and then strike out another
contour, and so on. This
method takes liberties with the
Keyline Plan, but is an easily
understood “next - best”
method.
From results already
achieved by the Ross brothers,
1 would say that the successful
establishment of sub.-clover
and phalaris on the Keyfine
throughout this district would
at least quadruple carrying-
capacity, and the initial and
subsequent Keyline cultivation
would greatly increase the
effective rainfall of the area,
by aiding absorption and
reducing run-off.
The Ross brothers are
already finding that if they
want water in their existing
“C’mon, y ’ big coot —have another go !”
small stock-watering dams
they have to keep their
Pittman/Keyline improvement
out of the little valleys that
fill them. What would be the
effect on the flow of the Cam-
paspe if the whole of the water-
shed were cultivated on the
Keyline and sown-down using
the Pittman Technique?
Would an Eppalock Dam fill?
Would it serve any useful pur-
pose? Would its cost be
warranted?
It seems to me that the pro-
ject might be a case of trying
to correct an effect and not
of curing a cause.
K. G. SCHOEFFEL.
Star Boarders
“Light”: A Victorian dairy-
herd improved its total produc-
tion after several of the poorer
cow's had been removed, which
shows that mere numbers are
not enough.
Like the dairyfarmer* the
successful woolgrower must
avoid sentimental loyalty to
sheep w'hich have served him
well but too long. He must
judge by individual wool-
weights which sheep should be
culled, aiming to keep more
youngsters alive instead of
wasting energy prolonging the
lives of those past their peak.
High mortality of young
stock is why such a small per-
centage can be culled each
year, and consequently why im-
provement plans don’t come-
off.
Fish for Farm Dams
“J.J.A.”: Between Sep-
tember and November is the
time for liberating fish in dams.
They will not only help the
economy of the farm-larder but
will also keep down yabbies
(which play havoc with clay
banks) and eradicate water-
snail, the host of liver-fluke.
Fish also improve the quality
of the water for stock, and
irrigation.
Almost any dam is suitable,
provided the water is clear and
at least one-third of its area
over sft. deep in summer. Trees
and other shade help, because
the water must be no more than
78deg. in summer, while suit-
able plants can be grown in the
shallow parts (but take expert
advice on local conditions first,
or these plants may take
possession of the dam).
A bag of fowl- or cow-manure
immersed in the dam for each
acre of its surface-area and
a bale of lucerne - hay
dunked in small quantities
along the edge of the water will
provide the food needed to
ensure a good crop of insects
for the fish to feed on. The
edge of the dam should be
broadcast twice a year with a
mixture of fertiliser: 51b.
potassium - chloride, 151 b.
ground limestone, 40! b.
ammonium - sulphate, 601 b.
super, per acre.
Trout (which must not be
resold) are the only fish avail-
able commercially for stocking,


GENUINE TILLEY
SPARE PARTS
FOR LAMPS, LANTERNS, IRONS
AND RADIATORS
Although Import Restrictions may
make it more difficult to obtain
ALL the Tilley Spares you need,
limited supplies of every item
ARE available. If your Store-Keeper
is temporarily unable to
help you, ask him to contact
the Australian Agents :
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD.
1092 Mt. Alexander Road, Essendon, W. 5. Victoria
Phone: FX 4747
and now is the time to see
about supplies. The rate of
stocking should be one fry per
cubic-yard, and subsequently
the dam should be fished con-
sistently (a net is best) to keep
the fish an even size, small
fish being thrown back.
It’s necessary in most States
to get permission from the
Fisheries and Game Depart-
ment before stocking even a
land-locked dam.
New-type Silo
“Myall”: A new type of
silo, which consists of a squat,
steel-mesh frame, lined with a
tarred-hessian preparation, has
been successfully demonstrated
at Moggill, near Brisbane.
The cost of the steel mesh
is about £lB, and the material
for lining about £l4. The life
of the frame is Estimated to be
at least five years, hut the
lining has to be replaced each
year.
In one of these silos, filled
last April and opened for feed-
ing early in July, the ensilage
was of good quality and
palatable, while the only
wastage was the first sin. under
the top seal and a few small
pockets at the top of the sides.
The cost of ensilage was less
than 9s. per ton.
Seaweed on the Farm
“Alchemist”: Investigations
at official or university
veterinary-stations in Norway
and Holland show that sea-
weed-meal has value as a
mineral supplement to normal
fodders ; it appears to contain
all the elements required by
animals.
Seaweed concentrates ele-
ments it collects. For instance,
although sea-water contains 28
times more sodium than potas-
sium, and only one part of
iodine in 40-million, in sea-
weed the proportion of potash
is reversed to nearly twice the
sodium-content, and the iodine-
content is increased from 2000
to 120,000 times (according to
variety). Thus (as claimed by
earlier contributors to these
pages) seaweed used as a food-
supplement or fertiliser can be
a means whereby elements
taken from the land can be
replaced.
This and seaweed’s reported
high vitamin-content may
account for the remarkable
results recently published. It
is reported that animals fed
a 3 per cent, supplement of
seaweed-meal have shown a
10 to 20 per cent, increase in
blood-haemoglobin. Cows have
given increased milk, sheep
have shown increased fertility
and produced better wool, and
pigs have reached slaughtering-
size sooner. Also, on a 5 per
cent, supplement, old hens are
reported to have recommenced
laying, and, as well, first-year
mortality among turkeys disap-
peared. It is even claimed that
a seaweed-supplement has
made racehorses run faster!
Classified as algae, seaweeds
are non-flowering and without
roots. They range from small
ones used for food, notably
in Japan, to the giant Pacific
kelps like Macrocystis pyrifera,
found around the coasts of
New Zealand, Tasmania and
south-eastern Australia (these
giants sometimes grow up to
200 ft. in length). The browns
and reds among, seaweeds
are industrially the most
important.
Seaweed industries have
always had a precarious exist-
ence. The weeds were first
used in Europe to produce
soda for glass-making and
soap-manufacture, and as a
source of iodine until ousted
by the cheaper Chile nitrate
by-product. In the 1930’s sea-
weed came into prominence as
a source of alginate, the
jellifying substance used in
food, textiles, paper and
plastics. The alginate industry
is worth £500,000 a year to the
U.K., and the Scottish Sea-
weed Research Association
spends large sums investigating
every angle of seaweed-
exploitation.
An alginate industry needs
large supplies of rapidly
regenerating weed-beds and a
large assured market for its
products. There might be a
future, though, in an industry
trebly based on alginate,
animal-food and fertiliser-pro-
duction. Meanwhile, for the
man on the land and the home-
gardener seaweed is a useful
addition to the soil wherever
it is available. It has value
as a source of humus, and its
constituents are related to the
chemicals in costly commercial
soil - conditioners, while its
fertiliser-value is comparable
to that of farmyard manure.
Treating lungworsn
“Valley”: A new scientific
find is the drug cyanacethy-
drazide for the treating of
lungworm, which until now has
defied attempts to cure it.
In tests on pigs it was noticed
that the drug stupified the
worms, so that they loosened
their hold on the lung-tissues
and could be coughed-up or
passed-out onto the pasture,
leaving no dead worms in lung-
tubes.
Other worm-infestations must
be removed before this drug
can be successful, so it’s best
to use it in conjunction with
phenothiazine-drenching.
English Leicesters
“Grid”: Yet another Aus-
tralian lamb-carcass champion-
ship going to A. O. Hancock
and Mrs. Hancock, of Warrack-
nabeal (Vic.), makes one
wonder why other lamb-raisers
don’t follow the “Hancock
technique” of using a South-
down sire with an English
Leicester - Merino crossbred
ewe. Instead, most Australian
fat-lambs are from Border
Leicester halfbreds (commonly'
called crossbreds), comeback or
even Merino ewes, and the
English Leicester halfbred is
uncommon.
Low to the ground, with a
block.y body and reasonably
good fleece, the E.L.-halfbred
ewe is suitable for use with
the Southdown. Critics say it's
slow in maturing, but its suc-
cesses against strong competi-
tion at Smithfield show that it
can deliver the goods.
Preventing
Evaporation
“G.M.”: Experiments
at Lake Menindee, near Broken
Hill (N.S.W.), may provide an
answer to the large-scale use
of cetyl-alcohol to prevent
evaporation.
Present technique allows us
to seal areas up to two acres and
reduce evaporation by about
•25 per cent. On Lake Menindee
the efficiency of cetyl-alcohol
has been increased by adding
a petrol-derivative which is
believed to save 10 per cent,
more.
Si-Ro-Seal (the liquid formed
from cetyl-alcohol and this
petrol-derivative) is dripped


?s
IHI
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O Connell Sts., H. V. La wry,
Sydney. Manager.
from hoppers spaced along the
windward side of the lake, the
flow being controlled by wind-
vanes in the hoppers. The pre-
vailing winds then drive the film
out over the lake.
Weeds in Onions
“Billjim”: Of chemicals
used for controlling weeds in
onion-crops, tests by Victorian
Department of Agriculture
officials show Chloro I.P.C. to
be the most promising so far.
It does not kill the full
range of weeds, but is most
effective against winter-grass,
chickweed, seed and young
seedlings of hogweed, ciover,
marshmallow, fat-hen, deadly-
nightshade and stinging-nettle.
Trials indicate that safe
rates of application vary
mainly with soil-types. For
this reason growers are advised
to use Chloro I.P.C. (and
others less effective, such as
potassium-cyanate, sulphuric-
acid and pentachlorophenate)
on small areas at first to deter-
mine correct rates of applica-
tion.
On heavy black volcanic
soils pre-emergence dressings
of up to 81b. an acre did not
damage the onions, but on
peaty-clay soils 41b. killed a
percentage of the onion seed-
lings. With post-emergence
applications a rate of 41b. an
acre can be tolerated except
on very sandy soils.
As a general guide the
department advises using 21b.
ic 41b. pre-emergence and up
to 61b. post - emergence,
depending always on the soil-
variation.
For pre-emergence use,
weed-seeds should be germin-
ating and onion-seedlings
should be on the point of
emerging from the soil. The
post-emergence spray should
be applied as soon as the
effect of the pre-emergence
application wears off and the
weed-seeds are beginning to
germinate.
If possible, spray so that
the tips of the onion leaves
are not damaged, though
where this isn’t possible “over-
the-top” spraying may be
used, as the damage from
Chloro I.P.C. spray is slight.
After spraying, the soil-surface
should not be disturbed, to
avoid losing the residual effect
of the chemical.
On sandy soils, and in cold,
wet weather when weeds have
struck or thistles and other
resistant weeds are a problem,
power-kerosene should be
used as a pre-emergence spray
(40gals. in SOgals. to lOOgals.
of water) and Chloro used as
a post-emergence spray about
a month later.
Paspalum
“Daika Idau”: Paspalum
conjugatum, mentioned here as
a menace to farmers in Queens-
land, is a pest in New Guinea
also.
As soon as land is cleared and
ploughed, in moves con-
jugatum. It will even smother
kunai as soon as a fire has been
run through. This is saying
something, as kunai is a
vigorous grower which permits
few competitors.
Paspalum conjugatum is
proving a menace to coffee-
growers: areas cleared and
planted to coffee suffer from it
until the coffee shade-trees are
well established. Eradication,
or even control, of conju-
gatum is a continual source
of worry and expense to the
coffee-planter.
Even private home-owners
are not free from this brute.
Plant a beautiful lawn, and
very soon the home-gardener
will be down on his knees try-
ing to root the pest out.
Anyone coming-up with an
inexpensive idea of complete
eradication of this menace will
be welcome in New Guinea.
Wool and Light
“Arab”: Sheep were judged
for the first time under artificial
lights at Melbourne's Sheep-
breeders’ Show. Whereas
natural light has always been a
“must” when examining fine
wool, artificial illumination may
also have advantages particu-
larly evident when champion-
ships are often judged in the
fading light of a late winter’s
afternoon.
Would artificial lighting be
worth a trial in the woolshed
and showfloor as well? In
their enthusiasm to admit
enough natural light into the
shed some owners overdo the
job, with a resultant glare on
the snowy fleece. Good arti-
ficial light would at least give
even illumination to classer and
buyer.
Rhodes-gross
Bottle-Jaw”: Rhodes-grass
—one of the most valuable
pastures we have—has been the
salvation of Queensland’s huge
tract of brigalow-scrub. On the
clay soils in this belt it grows
strong and vigorous, choking
back weeds and holding its
own with sucker regrowth.
A versatile grass, it flourishes
in the 25in.-rainfall belt as well
as on the wet, tropical Atherton
Tableland, where it is planted
on the red volcanic soils as a
rotation to maize. It’s a free-
seeder, and its seed has been
known to remain fertile in the
ground for years, even surviv-
ing severe grass-fires.
In Central Queensland it is
proving a valuable rotation to
cotton. On country which has
been cropped with cotton for
four or more years a spell
under Rhodes for several
seasons means larger yields of
heavier cotton.
Planted in conjunction with
lucerne, it makes an ideal milk-
ing-pasture. Even when it has
reached the seed-stage, cows
will milk well on it, provided
there is a picking of a green
legume with it.
Cut just before the seed-
heads form, the grass makes
excellent hay, with a feed-
value as hay just a little short
of lucerne. And even as dry
grass standing in the paddock
it will be cropped to the ground
by cattle, and it fattens well.
As it forms a dense sward,
lodging can be a problem on
lightly-stocked pastures. After
several years it is necessary to
fire the paddocks to clean-up
the mat of dead grass, some-
times 6in. to Bin. deep. But
now that many of the scrub-
farms have been cleared of
stumps and logs it is possible to
mow the grass and keep the
rank growth down in a good
season. This is preferable to
firing, especially if the cut grass
is baled as hay.
In newly burnt scrub the seed
can be sown as soon as the
ash is cool. If cotton is
planted in the newly burnt
country, sow the grass-seed
about February. The cotton-
bushes will provide cover for
the young grass-runners during
the winter, and the grass will
not be high enough to interfere
with picking the cotton. Stock
can be turned into the new
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(7 / 8/’58)
In Queensland moderate rains are indicated for the
south coast, Darling Downs, central highlands and Maranoa
areas during September, but rainfall is likely to be p'oor else-
where. Light to moderate patchy rains below normal are
indicated during October and November, with general rains
in December.
Moderate to good rains are indicated in N.S.W. during
September, although rainfall may be light on the North
Coast, and in the north-west and far-west areas. Indications
are that the best rains will be on the South Coast, Southern
Tablelands and South-west Slopes. Light to moderate rains
will probably follow in October and November, with general
rains in December.
General rains are indicated in Victoria during Sep-
tember, although moderate and about normal in the Mallee
and northern-division areas. Best rains are likely to be in
the east-central, Gippsland and west-coast areas.
The agricultural areas of South Australia will probably
receive general rains during September, although light to
moderate in the Murray Valley and poor in the upper north,
interior and far-west coast.
Good rains are likely in the south-west agricultural
areas of Western Australia during September, and also in
the eastern goldfields area. The heaviest rains may be
expected on the central and south coasts, but poor rainfall
elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for . . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; £ year-MET 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire; £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; £ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
pasture as soon as the seed-
heads have, formed. By then
the roots have become well set
in the ground and the stock
won’t pull the clumps out.
One of the secrets of estab-
lishing a solid Rhodes-grass
pasture is to plant the seed
evenly. Work in strips when
“ Well , dear—it works!”
sowing, and make «ure there is
a slight overlapping on both
sides to prevent grassless strips
which breed weeds.
Potatoes for Stock
“Sundowner”: The cheapest
way to use potatoes for stock-
feeding is to turn pigs on to
them, using them for a protein-
supplement, since they consist
mainly of starch. Another
method is to feed them,
crushed with a roller or sliced,
as a supplement to dry rough-
ages and concentrates during
winter. >
For both pigs and poultry,
boiling the spuds increases the
food-value. As a broad work-
ing basis gives the same
food-value as lib. of good
meadow hay ; 41b. is equal to
lib. of grain or concentrate.
It’s best not to feed the spuds,
however, if they are green or
have sprouts.
A pig can be fed as many
boiled potatoes as it can eat
each day, with |gal. of
separated milk and to
21b. of ground grain or pollard.
For sheep, complete daily main-
tenance-ration would be 3|lb.
of potatoes, plus lib. of linseed-
nuts, or 31b. of potatoes and
fib. of lucerne-hay. These
quantities can be reduced to
one-half, one-quarter, or less,
depending on the amount of
paddock-feed available,
Dry cattle should be fed
similar rations to sheep, but
each animal will require 10
times the quantity fed to each
sheep. Milking-cows will also
need 41b. of meatmeal, 161 b. of
linseed-meal and 501 b. of
lucerne-chaff with every 1001 b.
of potatoes.
A ration for 250 birds would
be: 501 b. of potatoes, 301 b. of
pollard, 151 b. of bran, 51b. of
meatmeal. For poultry the
spuds can be cooked and
absorbed with the mash.
Healthy Sails,
Healthy Crops
“Brumby”: American scien-
tists believe, from recent
research, that soil-fertility is
not merely the measure of the
amount of nec.essary elements
present in the soil but depends
on their correct balance.
Holding that the general
responsibility for healthy soils
lies with those who manage
crops, rather than with
chemists, they point-out that,
before man upset the balance
of nature, crops were free from
weeds, diseases and pests,
although they grew in the same
ground year after year. The
secret was that none of the
fertility was removed in cash-
crops, as it is today; also,
animals did not disturb the
balance. So they claim that,
given the right balance of
plant-foods, healthy crops
should be growing without
artificial medication.
For instance, fungi do not
attack soybeans as long as
enough exchangeable calcium
is available, even in soils which
would normally be considered
too acid for that crop. Experi-
ments have shown that thrips
won’t go for plants grown in
soil which has the right balance
of calcium and nitrogen and
that the intensity of attacks by
insects varies according to the
amount of these chemicals
present. In recent work, maize-
ears from plants grown on
highly fertile soils were found
better able to . withstand grain-
borer attacks during storage
than those grown in poorer
soils. The insect bored into
ears from crops which had
been fed nitrogen alone, but
neglected those fed phos-
phorus as well as nitrogen.
The conclusion reached by
these scientists is that, while
we may be able to manage
soils so that they yield bigger
crops, w 7 e still have much to
learn about soil-management
to nourish plants so that they
can protect themselves from
diseases and pests without the
use of our poisons or medica-
ments.
Fertilisers for Apples
“Big Billy": Tests by the
Victorian Department of Agri-
culture prove that use of
artificial fertilisers isn’t detri-
mental fo the quality and
storage-life of apples. Exces-
sive amounts of nitrogen will,
however, reduce the surface-
color of Jonathans.
So orchardists can confi-
dently use the recommended
fertilisers, applying 61b. per
tree of 1:1:1. Even moderate
use of nitrogen has some effect
on fruit-color and will delay
maturity up to two weeks, but
this is more than outweighed
by improvements gained by its
use in healthy tree-growth and
size of fruit.
Farm Hinfs
“C.A.A.”: Surplus apples
can be fed to dairy cows if
care is taken to prevent scour-
ing and a condition similar to
bloat. Milkers should not have
more than 10-151 b. daily.
Because apples are low in
protein some roughage will be
required, and this can be
supplied by |lb. to lib. of meat-
meal. Apples should be sliced
before being fed to cattle.
“Pampas" * A “cocktail"
worth serving to bunnies is a
mixture of poisoned carrots
and oats. The oats are for the
small percentage of rabbits
which do not like carrots, and
for those who like a dash of
grain with their root-crops.
“Billjim”: Potash deficiency
may cause patchy pasture-
growth on old cropping-land
(particularly hay-paddocks) in
spite of super, and trace-
element applications. Apply a
trial strip of the potash over
suspected paddocks, using one
bag (1871 b.) to the acre. If the
deficiency is proved, l cw't. per
acre will correct the trouble
and last up to four years.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
In honor of Dame Mary Gilmore’s
93rd birthday, which was celebrated on
Friday, Mrs. Lucy Cassidy has had a
beautiful copy of James Tyrrell’s Old
Books, Old Friends, Old Sydney auto-
graphed by many well-known writers,
including Dorothea MacKellar, and has
presented it to the Randwick Domestic
Science School, which has a special
Gilmore House named for Dame Mary.
V & V
Art-shows and fashion-shows held the
centre of the stage this week, sometimes
the one coinciding with the other,
for there is certainly a return to colorful
dressing on the part of Sydney’s art-
lovers. At the Bissietta Gallery, where
lima Ballentyne-Russell and Anton Murre
shared an exhibition of modern sculpture,
one saw Mr. H. R. Scott, who had been
brought along by his daughter, Mrs.
Bruce McFarlan, for his first glimpse of
modern art. He seemed less astonished by
the art-forms than by the assembly,
which included a lady with a waist round
her knees and a hat round her chin, a
teenager in black tights and a trench-
coat, Mrs. Murre in a short violet sheath-
dress and long ropes of 1920-type pearls,
a couple of viewers with pink hair (not
at all uncommon these days), several
men with stovepipe trousers and colored
waistcoats, and several interpretations of
the sack and the chemise. Mrs. Ballen-
tyne-Russell’s outfit was black with a
hat that was a yellow rose sitting straight
on the top of her/head —very fetching.
* ☆ ☆
There were two gatherings for the exhi-
bition of the Society of Artists, the first
a preview at which potential purchasers
really saw the paintings, and the second
an official opening by Lady Woodward
which was very solidly attended. Mr.
Douglas Dundas (who x has just been
awarded the medal of the Society of
Artists) was host with Mrs. Dundas for
both parties, and among the artists who
were present were Frank Hodgkinson
(receiving congratulations on having won
the Helena Rubenstein award) and Elaine
Haxton, whose drawing of children in
China was much admired, but was
marked “sold” right at beginning of
the show. Miss Haxton herself looked
striking in her white blouse splashed with
red carnations and with a black satin
bow at the back of her platinum hair-do.
☆ ☆ ☆
When Margaret Coen takes her exhi-
bition of watercolors to Canberra at the
end of the month she will be returning
to the district where her family is well
known and where she herself was born.
A member of the Royal Art Society of
Australia and the Watercolor Institute,
Margaret Coen is noted for her studies
of Australian wildflowers, many of which
she grows in her garden at St. Ives. ( Her
exhibition, which will be at the Canberra
Art Club Gallery, will be opened on
August i 29 by Archbishop Eris O’Brien,
and will close on September 5.
Jan Stanton-Cook, whose engagement
has just been announced, is the daughter
of Dr. and Mrs. L. Stanton-Cook, of
Wollstonecraft. Her fiance is Timothy
Salisbury, son of Mr. Charles Salisbury,
of Seaforth, and the late Mrs. Salisbury.
Jan is: wearing an unusual oval solitaire
diamond-ring. Photo by Norton Trevaire.
Seven of the brides who have been
helping to raise money for Red Cross
during the past year wore their wedding-
gowns for the Parade of the Brides at
the Red Cross Ball on Wednesday night
at the Trocadero. They were led by
the winner of the contest, Mrs. Richard
Binney, who, with her committee from
Newcastle-Hunter Valley, raised £3500
for Red Cross. The runner-up, Mrs. C.
McGruer, of Brungle, via Gundagai, was
also present, and the Waltz of the Brides
which followed the presentation of prizes
was a very pretty sight. Mrs. Leonard
Lloyd Lewis, wearing a tiered, peacock-
line dress of black taffeta, welcomed the
guests-of-honor, the Governor, Sir Eric
Woodward, and Lady Woodward. Later
in the evening the stars of “Can-Can,”
which is playing at the Empire, came
along to join the dancers.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was a full-house for -the musicale in
aid of the Lady Mayoress’s Relief Fund,
held in the vestibule of the Town Hall on
Thursday, at which the Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. H. F. Jensen, herself welcomed the
guests. This musicale, which is organised
by Mrs. W. Hope H. Gibson, has become
an annual event and is eagerly looked for-
ward to. The artists this year were pianist
Lindley Evans, soprano Constance Man-
ning, baritone Stewart Harvey, violinist
Jennifer James and accompanist Josephine
Bell. Among those who attended was
Mrs. J. G. Seppelt, who was accompanied
by her house-guest, Adelaide visitor Miss
Pauline Dunstan.
☆ * ☆
Celebrated their sixtieth wedding-
anniversary at the Cammeray home of
their daughter, Mrs. Cliff Finch, on
Sunday, Mr. and Mrs. Jim Tyrrell, who
were married at St. Stephen’s, Newtown,
on August 17, 1898. Jim Tyrrell (now
83) is probably Australia’s best-known
secondhand-bookseller and dealer in Aus-
traliana ; less well known is the fact that
he has four grandchildren and five great-
grandchildren.
v # #
Johnnie Walker, whose Bistro in the
Rhinecastle wine-cellars has been one of
the recent social successes in Sydney, is
opening an adjoining Tank Room (on
the course of the old Tank Stream) on
Friday, August 22, with a party going
on from 4 to 6.15. Proceeds will be
in aid of the Opera House Appeal.
Hostesses will be 12 members of the Red-
heads Club, whose members are Sydney
models and journalists. On the menu
will be whale-meat, goat (but not galah),
kangaroo, mutton-bird and Australian
venison, as well as the other more
conventional dishes which the Bistro
already does so well. And all around
and about, of course, will be an atmo-
sphere of bottles —that is, wine-bottles.
CANBERRA.
The most interesting event of the week
was the showing, for the first time in
Australia, of 36 oil-paintings by Sir
Winston Churchill in King’s Hall,
liament House, which had been trans-
formed into an ideal gallery.
The Governor-General, Sir William
Slim, said he thought the qualities of
sensitivity, concentration and the power
to express oneself were necessary to
reach the peak of any chosen medium,
and it wasn’t surprising that Winston
Churchill, who had been acclaimed as
soldier, writer, orator,' politician and
statesman, should achieve some success
as' an artist. Prime Minister Menzies,
who lent the painting “Sailing-boat in
Harbour at Antibes” -from his own
collection and also wrote the foreword
to the souvenir catalogue, described the
occasion as historical and the paintings
remarkable.
Viewing the paintings, it was impossible
not to be impressed by the thought that
the painter is one of the greatest men
of our time; some might feel that
Churchill is more remarkable as a per-


sonality than as a painter. Be that as
it may, many of his paintings, notably
“Winter Sunshine, Chartwell” reflect the
free expression of the individual and his
true appreciation of form.
King’s Hall was packed for the open-
ing. Official guests included the Speaker
of the House of Representatives, Mr. J»
McLeay ; the Leader of the Opposition,
Dr. H. V. Evatt; members of Parlia-
ment ; heads of Government depart-
ments ; heads of diplomatic missions and
their wives. The exhibition was spon-
sored by the Commonwealth Government
and will be shown in all State capitals.
MELBOURNE
Few formal evening-gowns were seen
at the Princess Theatre when “Anniversary
Waltz” had its premiere. Short frocks
in silk-taffeta, faille and velvet were the
most popular, with a scattering of filmy
laces and chiffons.
A short frock of black ChantiHy-lace
featuring the peacock-hemline was worn
by Mrs. Garnet Carroll with a sable
stole. Mrs. Keith Fairlie chose a full-
skirted frock of deep-mauve faille. One
of the most attractive theatre-coats was
worn by Mrs. James McGauran. Of
scarlet velvet, it featured a cape-collar
trimmed with sapphire-blue mink. Mrs.
Ronald Nott wore a Jean Desses frock
of periwinkle-blue taffeta, the skirt full
and banded at the knees. Color was given
to Lady Myer’s sapphire-blue lace frock
by red shoes.
With her bouffant frqck of black
taffeta Lady Tait wore emerald-green
satin shoes. Pink fur cuffs highlighted
pretty Maureen Tyson’s pink taffeta
trapeze-line coat, and a white mink tie
embellished the American-beauty velvet
coat worn by Mrs. Frank Shipton. A
slim black faille frock was the choice of
Mrs. Estelle Dare, which she covered with
a full-length Russian-ermine coat. Mrs.
Keith Hattam wore a white Arctic-fox
stole with her mauve faille frock. Of
turquoiserblue chiffon and sequin-
spangled lace was the frock worn by Mrs.
Charles Davidson.
☆ ☆ *
Daffodils and snowdrops are being
challenged as the true harbingers of
spring by the fashion-parades, the latest
of which, with the happy title of Hi-Jinks,
featured many styles to delight the young.
The colors were varied and gay, with a
big range in the plain Swiss poplins and
florals, which included brilliant rose-'
designs.
Being frocks for the teenager, and
mostly of cotton, simplicity was the key-
note. Harem-skirted frocks had under-
tucking achieved by the clever use of
elastic, the skirt reverting to the normal
straight hem when the elastic was
removed. Details on many frocks
included contrasting or matching inset-
panels. This was seen when a fine pin-
stripe panel was used in a plain poplin
frock. Again, the striped material was
used as a band at the hem of a skirt,
or for buttons emphasising the Empire-
line on a Princess-frock.
One scooped-neckline Princess-frock of
black poplin had white embroidery down
the centre-front panel leading to two
Scotch terriers embroidered at the hem-
line ; it was finished with diamente collars.
A printed cotton in firecracker-red and
gold had kid buttons coated permanently
with gold-leaf. Although cut in one
piece, the bodice suggested a little jacket-
effect with a peplum band just above the
waist. Another attractive gold-printed
cotton featured a fine-gold tracery-design
of gold and black.
The frocks shown were all moderately
priced, too.
Scottish actress Sophie Stewart has,
returned after an absence of four years
to star in “Not in the Book,” the new
play which opens at the Comedy Theatre
towards the end of the month. She will
be the only woman in a cast of nine
headed by Edwin Styles and including her
husband, Ellis Irving. This is Sophie’s
third visit to Australia for the Firm; her
last appearance here being in " Dear
Charles.” Since then she has made two
films.
Elizabeth Compson, only daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. Hugh C. Trumble, was
married by candlelight at St. John’s,
Toorak. The bride’s, classical gown of
delustred-satin was cut on sheath lines,
with fullness at the back falling into a
train. The high neckline was embroidered
with pearls, and a pearl tiara held her
tulle veil. Her bouquet was of gardenias
and hyacinths. Matron-of-honor was
Mrs. Lloyd Jago, whose short white velvet
frock had a bell-shaped skirt. The bride-
groom, John Stratford Milne, only son of
Mr. and Mrs. Stratford Bolton, of Mal-
vern, had Graeme Fair as best man. After
the ceremony Dr. and Mrs. Trumble,
assisted by the bridegroom’s parents,
received about 80 guests at the reception
at Myoora, Toorak.
☆ ☆ ☆
I
At a parade of spring hats in the
Venetian Court of the Hotel Australia,
held to help the funds of St. Vincent’s
Hospital, a new designer was introduced.
He is Yulian, a young Swede who has
also worked in New York. Among the
official guests welcomed by-the organiser
of the parade, Mrs. Peter Ruddick (whose
brilliant-red velvet toque gave color to
her black ensemble), were the Consul for
Sweden, Mr. H. S. Lamburd, his daughter
Patricia (her mint-green velvet coat was
worn with a down-swept white beret
trimmed with one red rose), Evie Hayes
(whose black fur miniature busby,
livened with one red rose, went with a
black frock and mink stole), Dr. Peter
Edman (who represented the hospital),
and Judith Ruwolt. Hat - admirers
included Lady Myer and her mother, Mrs.
Louis Sallmann, and Mrs. Desmond
Hollywood, Mrs. Peter Parker, Mrs.
Derek Rumbold, Mrs. John Teague, Mrs.
Peter Kiernan, Mrs. Bing Molyneux and
Mrs. Frank Galbally.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the reception given by the Consul
for Greece, Mr. N. D. Coumbos, at
the Chevron Hotel, the guest-of-honor
was the famous Greek singer Madame
Elena Nikolaidi, who wore a black taffeta
frock and a hat of beige satin finished
with a halo of ranch-mink. Spring
blossom, daffodils and rhododendrons
decorated the Orchid Room, where guests
were received. These included Sir John
and Lady Jungwirth, Mrs. Guy Bakewell,
Miss L. Cairns Lloyd, Mr. Gawith,
M.L.C., and his wife, Minister for Hous-
ing H. Petty, Mrs. S. P. Kroussos, Mr,
Geoffrey Smith, U.S. Consul-General
Mr. Graham Hall and Mrs. Hall, Italian
Consul-General the Marchese Serafini and
the Marchesa Serafini, Japanese Consul
M. Nomoto and Mrs. Nomoto (her pale-
blue kimono (was finished with a gold
satin obi), German Consul Dr. W. Sarra-
zin and Mrs. Sarrazin, Chinese Consul
K. Y. Leung and his wife, and the acting
Commercial Secretary for Canada, Mr.
Stewart Hay, and Mrs. Hay (who wore
an azure-blue wool frock, cut on sack
lines, and a matching bandeau).
☆ ☆ ☆
The president and secretary of the
Common Interests Committee of the
English Speaking Union (Mrs. William
Dobinson and Mrs. James Alston) were
hostesses- at a reception at which the
guest-of-honor, the High Commissioner
for Pakistan (General Mohammed
Youssef), gave a short talk on his country.
Victoria’s Chief Justice Sir Charles Lowe
(who was accompanied by Lady Lowe)
also spoke. Among the guests were
Lieut.-Commander C. A. R. Sadlier and
his wife, Mr. and Mrs. E. J. Thompson,
Mrs. Rod McPhail, Mrs. A. Holtier, Mrs.
H. Bartholomew, Acting Trade Secretary
for Canada Stewart Hay and Mrs. Hay,
Air-Commodore and Mrs. U. Ewart,
Pierre Mann, Geoffrey Smith and Mrs.
Cameron Stewart.


sea the Islander reeled-off the
knots. Another rain-squall
swept over her, passed on and
temporarily shut out the faint
shape of Bonabon. Two more
hours at this speed, Rusty
calculated, and they would be
in shelter. Looking up at the
low clouds he knew that these
squalls v were but a mild fore-
taste of what was to come.
Squall after squall swept over,
until most of the time they
were running blind, steering
a compass course to take them
clear of, but close to, the
island.
And then, as though they
could contain their load no
longer, the leaden clouds
released the torrent. No drift-
ing squall this, but a suffocat-
ing tropical deluge that came
tumbling down, drumming
hollowly on the taut sails,
crashing on the deck and hiss-
ing into the sea with a noise
like a locomotive blowing-off
steam. It defeated the sea,
hurling its weight on the waves
until they subsided into swells.
And before long they, too,
gave-up the struggle of trying
to rise against this merciless
torrent, and the sea returned
to its early-morning calm. For,
as suddenly as’ it had come,
the wind stopped. It was as
if the deluge had smothered
the life out of it, beating it
down to drown under the hiss-
ing surface of the sea. The
sails hung Jimp and useless,
great waterfalls cascading from
their motionless booms.
Very wisely the crew had
scurried for shelter, and Rusty
was down in the engine-room
helping Bunnian dismantle the
fuel-system. There was nothing
anyone could do on deck. The
ship was a lifeless thing, cut
off from the rest of the world
as completely as if someone had
dropped a heavy white curtain
around her, drawing it in so
tightly that it pressed against
her timbers.
Rusty was doubly worried
now. It was nearly an hour
since he had last sighted Bona-
bon, and he Was far from
certain of his position. He was
close to the island, he knew.
Just how close was any man’s
guess. He might be drifting
towards it or the current might
be carrying him away from it,
but in either case he could do
nothing about it. The water
was far too deep for anchoring.
The fuel-system was re-
assembled and Bunnian was
vainly attempting to start the
engine when Rusty felt the
bump. It was light, little more
than a gentle tremor passing
through the ship, but he
recognised it at once.
“God!” he yelled. “We’re
aground!”
TTe was up on deck in an
instant, . racing forward
through the rain and bellowing
to his crew to get the anchor
down.
Another shudder shook the
ship, a little heavier this time,
and before the anchor gripped
firmly in coral she bumped
several more times. Rusty was
no longer in doubt about her
position ; she was up on the
reef at Bonabon, and, without
sail or engine, he was powerless
to do anything about it.
He didn’t curse; he was
beyond that. He simply
returned to his interrupted job
in the engine-room. When he
at last got the engine running
smoothly he came and looked
over the side. The tide had
fallen several inches, leaving the
Islander firmly stranded.
The rain had stopped, he
noted wearily. The curtain had
lifted, exposing his plight to
the inhabitants of the* village.
They were all there on the
beach, chattering and gesticulat-
ing excitedly. And there was
more than excitement on the
beach ; there was awe, awe and
admiration for Pitankassi. Had
he not said that a bad wind
would avenge the tree? It
would bring the white man’s
ship back to the island anti
avenge it before the eyes of all
who had witnessed the insult.
And there, sitting on the reef,
was the schooner! Could any
man now doubt the strength
of Pitankassi’s magic? Even
the big laughing white man was
powerless against it!
All this Rusty could sense.
He could see it written plainly
on the faces of his crew. He
could picture the look of smug
satisfaction on the face of old
Pitankassi, squatting there,
complacently serene under the
damaged callophyllum tree.
And as he stepped ashore from
the dinghy, he could see how
deeply the stranding had
affected Johnny Starr.
“My God, Rusty!” Starr
groaned. “How on earth did
it happen?”
“Like the old boy said. The
bad wind. The evil spell. Black
magic.” Rusty managed a rue-
ful grin. “Call it what you
like, I’m up. And the point
is I’ve got to get off that reef
tomorrow. I doubt whether
there’ll be enough water to float
me, and if I use the engine I’ll
probably smash the propeller
on the coral. I'll need man-
power, Johnny. Lots of it. Can
do?”
“Can do,” Starr told him.
“Leave that part of it to me.”
By high-water next day he
had collected every man,
woman and child capable of
standing head above water and
had shepherded them out on to
the reef. Only the very old and
the very young were left behind.
Rusty had laid his two anchors
out to the full'extent of their
cables, but he was not opti-
mistic about the result. The
Islander had gone aground in a
flat calm at the top of high
water. Today the sea was still
calm and the tide would
certainly be no higher.
Payment for the helpers had
been fixed by Starr at a shilling
a head and double that if they
got the ship off. To them it was
in the nature of holiday-pay.
And they did their best to earn
it. By uniting their efforts,
egged on by Rusty's rousing
bellows of “Heave-ho,” they
could lift the bow a little, but
they couldn’t move the ship
forward one inch.
She lacked buoyancy, and
without it she was a dead,
immovable thing. After half-
an-hour Rusty sent them back
to the beach. The tide was
falling.and further efforts were
useless.
“We’ll try again at high-
water tomorrow,” he said.
“Manpower alone will never
do it,” he told Starr over a
bottle of whisky that night.
“What we want is a swell.”
“Another nor'-wester?”
“Hell, no!” Rusty shuddered
at the thought. “That'd drive
her further up. Give me a good
sou’-easter with an easy swell
swinging around the island.
She’d lift to each swell and
the mob could push her ahead
four or five feet with every lift.”
He banged his great fist on the
table. “And it must come!
Goddammit, Johnny, we
shouldn't be getting anything
else at this time of the year.”
A/toRNiNG broke calm and
clear without a solitary
wind-cloud in the sky or the
sign of a swell on the shimmer-
ing glass of the sea.
Rusty set the crew to work
carrying everything movable
ashore, although he doubted
w'hether their efforts would
materially affect the Islander’s
draught. With the work well
in hand he went ashore to meet
Starr.
“Let’s go along and see old
Pitankassi,” Starr suggested.
“He’s got the whole blasted
island in an uproar and the
curse of it is that I can’t pin
a thing on him. I thought
perhaps you might be able to
draw him out. If he makes
one admission, one claim to the
power of sorcery, I’ll have
him under arrest. Unless I can
put a stop to it he’ll have the
entire district under his thumb.”
“I’ll give him a go,” Rusty
agreed cheerfully. “The way
I feel now there's nothin’ I’d
like better than the chance to
take him down a peg.”
Pitankassi, surrounded by a
large, admiring audience,
greeted the two white men
courteously. It was unfortunate
about the stranding, he said.
But then, had he not warned all
who cared to listen that a bad
wind would arise and do this
thing?
The old men of the audience
nodded their- approval.
That, Rusty admitted, was
true. It had been a very bad
wind indeed. And since the
insult to the tree had been
wiped-out would Pitankassi
♦now call up a good wind so
that they could get the ship
off the reef?
Pitankassi darted a swift
glance at the assistant district-
officer. Obviously the old
fellow was pleased with himself.
In one day he had achieved
fame that would travel far
beyond the small limits of this
island. But he was also shrewd
enough to realise that this was
not the time to boast of his
powers. The kiap was there,
anxious to arrest him on a
charge of sorcery.
“I cannot control the wind,”
he said. “I knew it would come
to avenge the tree, but I have
no power to make it blow.”
“But you had the power to
foretell its coming?”
“Yes”
Another quick glance at the
kiap. Surely there could be
no harm in that admission?
“Then tell, will a good wind
come today to help me get my
ship off?'’
Pitankassi stretched out a
dark, claw-like hand- to
indicate the smoke from his fire.
It rose in a thin blue column
without bend or waver.
“There will be no wind to-
day,” he announced clearly.
Rusty looked at the smoke.
His gaze travelled upwards to
where the last faint wisp lost
itself in the branches of the
callophyllurt) tree, and it
travelled beyond that.
“You say there will be no
wind. You say you have not
the power to make it blow.”
Rusty threw out his chest and
thumped it in a boastful,
arrogant gesture.
“But I say there will be a


wind. I will make a wind come,
a good wind that will stir the
sea and free my ship. Let all
who wish to see me do this
come down to the landing-
place.” He swung around,
strode purposefully back to the
dinghy and rowed out to his
ship.
"pivE minutes later he came
back. This time Yagura
was rowing and Rusty sat in
the stern. A sheet, held together
at the throat by a safety pin,
hung in folds around him, and
he was hatless. Moreover, as
he stepped ashore it was
obvious that except for the
loosely draped sheet he was
completely naked.
“Good God, man!” Starr
gasped. “What the hell are you
up to?”
“Stick around,” Rusty
grinned. “You’re gunna see
something. Big-time sorcery.
Fashion b’long Rusty Martin.”
Impatiently Starr warned,
“You’re making a damned fool
of yourself. Can’t you see the
position is bad enough now
without you making ridiculous
claims and clowning like this?
You know you can’t make the
wind blow any more than
Pitankassi can.”
“I wouldn’t bet on it if I
was you.”
Rusty watched Yagura lay
the kindling for a fire and stand
a bottle beside it.
“You’ll do your money cold,
Johnny, like when you’re play-
ing poker.”
“All you’ll do is make your-
self the laughing-stock of the
whole coast,” Starr declared
irritably.
Rusty took a pile of
saucers from the dinghy and
arranged them, bottoms-up, in
a neat circle around the fire-
wood. “See?” he said. “Saucers.
Sorcery. When I get through
I’ll be number-one sorcerer
around here and old Pitan-
kassi’ll be a back number. Stick'
around, Johnny. The show's
about to start.”
“Not me. Don’t try to drag
me into your foolery.” Starr
turned his back and intoned in
his best official voice, “Any
person who performs an act of
sorcery, counsels or procures an
act of soreery is guilty of an
offence.’ If I witness this it will
be my duty as kicw to arrest
you. I am going for a walk.”
He marched off, shouldering
his way through the crowd of
expectant onlookers. But, over-
come by curiosity, he crept
back, concealed himself behind
a bush and watched the pro-
ceedings.
And they were worth watch-
ing. In a series of grotesque
leaps Rusty was going round
and round the circle of saucers,
the sheet billowing out behind
him as he leaped, exposing his
nakedness to the entire popula-
tion. And as he leaped he
chanted:
Cunnamulla t .Cunnamulla,
Wooloomooloo, Mundubbera,
Thargomindah, Thargomindah,
Woolomooloo, Bingara.
At the end of each stanza the
■kneeling Yagura pressed his
nose in the sand and shrieked,
“Kiyaah !”
The leaping dance stopped,
and, facing the south east, Rusty
extended both arms in suppli-
cation. The upturned hands
beckoned enticingly. Plainly he
was imploring the wind to come
from that quarter.
Starr found himself unable
to suppress a grin of appreci-
ation. Rusty’s showmanship
held the villagers spellbound.
But what of the showdown? He
wondered. For when this
clowning ended the showdown
must come.
Rusty picked up the bottle
and solemnly poured the
contents on the kindling, inton-
ing his ,chant as he did so. Next
he scattered green leaves over
it, stepped back and -motioned
to Yagura.
The boss-boy applied a match
and instantly a billowing
column of black smoke leaped
skyward, and as it rose Rusty
lifted both arms and bowed
over to the north-west.
The performance was over,
and Starr’s anxious ears caught
the long drawn-out gasp of
the audience. The black smoke
column was bending in obedi-
ence and its top was drifting
slowly away to the north-west.
The good wind had come!
Sweeping the folds of his
sheet around himself in the
manner of a victorious Roman
emperor adjusting his toga.
Rusty strode majestically to
the dinghy and let the obviously
delighted Yagura row him back
to his ship.
His departure was the signal
for a babel of chatter, a
reminder to Starr that he really
had better go for that walk.
In his official position he could
not afford to be mixed-up in
this sort of thing.
Shortly before high-water he
returned and led' the still-
overawed villagers out along
the reef. The south-easter was
blowing strongly now, and
already the Islander’s bows
were lifting and falling to the
swell. Soon her stern would
lift, too, and with all this man-
power it would be a simple
matter to push her into deep
water.
Watching a smugly com-
placent Rusty pour whisky
into the two glasses that even-
ing Starr said, “Righto, righto,
you great self-satisfied ape, it
worked. Your bottle of kero-
sene made a great smoke and
the wind arrived at the right
time. For sheer luck I’ve never
seen anything to equal it. But
you still don’t seem to realise
what a risk you were running.
If that wind hadn’t come you
and I would have been hounded
off this coast by public
ridicule.”
“No risk at all,” Rusty
laughed. “I was backing a dead
cert. When old Pitankassi
pointed to his smoke I looked
up and saw a little bit of a
cloud drifting over from the
sou’east. I may not be too
strong on this sorcery business,
but I do know the start of a
sou'easter when I see it. My
only worry was that she’d get
going before I was ready.” He
downed his drink and his big
shoulders shook with laughter.
“And it did! If you’d looked
up you’d have seen the tops of
the trees moving before I got
properly into me stride. But
you didn’t look up. Nobody
looked up. You and the whole
bloody mob were too busy
watching me. I took care of
that.”
The Hollidays
BY Middy
“You did! I didn’t! You did! I didn’t! You did! I didn’t!”


the suspense—will he eat, beat or other-
wise maltreat the girl?—is pretty well
maintained all through the book. But
on the other -hand again, on the last
page the drama is allowed to fizzle out.
to vanish in what is perilously close to
the wow-ending of the mere maeazine-
story.
All that the lover does,-after all this
passionate suspense, when the girl is
escaping from him for ever by train, is,
first, to burst into tears and then to
bring her a bag of fruit —“Elsie! Elsie!
Here’s some fruit I brung yer.” The
tears are good; the fruit far too abrupt
an anticlimax. Granted, ninety-nine
times out of a hundred this is just about
what would happen in life; but Thea
Astley has all along given us the mis-
leading impression that this was the
hundredth time, a tale of extreme
passion, when the lover might be
expected to hurl the girl out the
carriage-window or dive under the train
himself.
It is the same with the variations
and adornments of the story. The
novelist certainly gives us an excellent
picture of tropic Queensland; and, by
a skilful device, she manages -to work
in a set of admirable character-sketches
of various people in the town with
whom the girl comes in contact. But
on the other hand most of these charac-
ters (except the bank-clerk who is the
roadworker’s rival, and her sophisti-
cated girlfriend Laura) have little to
do with the immediate central drama,
and even these two don’t strongly
affect it.
The style, again, is a most heroic
attempt to lift the story above its basic
simplicity, and it has its virtues; but,
influenced by James Joyce, it is pre-
tentious; too much artifice, too much
a parade of erudition. And, incidentally,
exactly how do people manage to leave
a restaurant with “their bellies faintly
sigillate from lettuce-leaves”? “Sigil-
late” means being decorated by means
of stamps, like pottery, and you could
only be sigillated by a lettuce if you
sat on it.
For all that, one must not finish this
review by sitting on “Girl With a
Monkey.” Take the virtues: it has
style, variety, ingenuity, a vivid picture
of Queensland, a strong story of love
and suspense: it is ,a highly promising
first novel.
For Boys
R. S. Porteous’s second boys’ book
about the Gellatlys of T'ambai Island,
The Tambai Treasure (Angus and
Robertson), begins with 13-year-old
Ken Gellatly, at school in Sydney,
accepting a passage to Tambai Island
on a big diesel-launch with a party of
four treasure-hunters led by a Sydney
accountant. They are seeking the loot
of a galleon wrecked off Tambai and
believed to have been retrieved and
buried-on nearby Laetai Island.
The journey to Laetai is complicated
by quarrels among the treasure-seekers
and Porteous weather, than which there
is none more convincing or capricious;
and on arrival the launch-party falls
foul of a doctor in a loincloth, and
later of the natives. They shoot and
are chased.
Meanwhile young Ken has gone
underwater-fishing with the doctor’s
18-year-old daughter, so unused to
civilisation that she goes swimming
.without her shirt. This (seeing this is a
boys’ book) doesn’t worry young Ken;
but, after more Porteous weather has
wrecked the boy and the girl and they
are saved by his father’s schooner, his
older brother is properly impressed. It
makes a lively story, full of authentic
salt.
ON THE BIRTH OF A SON
For Andrew
The day the boy was born, the wall fell
down
That flanks our garden. There's an
espaliered pear,
And then the wall l labored with such
care,
Such sweat and foresight, locking stone
with stone,
To build. Well, just a wall, but it's my
own,
I built it. Sitting in a garden chair
With flowers against the wall, it’s good
to stare
Inwards. But now some freak of wind
has blown
And tumbled it across the lawn —a sign
Perhaps. Indeed, when first I saw the boy,
I thought, he’s humble now, but wait a
few
Years and well see ! —out following a
line
Not of our choice at all. And then with
joy
I looked beyond the stones and saw the
view.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
Report on Africa
Gwyn Griffin’s fine novel By the
North Gate (Angus and Robertson)
describes two struggles for power
• —one personal, the other political—
in a former Italian colony in North
Africa.
The central struggle is between a
British Regular Army major and a
tough colonial garrison-commander for
control over a useless outpost; the other
is between the British military adminis-
tration and the native nationalists for
control of the whole colony. Connected
by the botched execution of a national-
ist murderer, the two struggles feed on
each other, ending in the ruin of both
majors, a- great deal-of violence and
death among their staffs and a victory
for the nationalists.
The author obviously isn’t very hope-
ful about the future of the West in
Africa. His British administrators care
only about their careers and personal
grudges; his colonials are cynical and
brutalised; and his nationalists are
more corrupt and brutal than either,
but are able'to make much political
capital out of events because they are
united and the Westerners are not.
The writing is attractively clear and
economical; and the descriptions of
political infighting and outpost life are
as good as anything of their kind.
Bicycles
Although Riding High, by Arthur
Judson Palmer (Vision), is an Ameri-
can history _ of the bicycle, it gives
ample credit to Baron von Drais, of
Karlsruhe, who built the original
Draisine in 1816, and to the English-
man James Starley, whose 1885 Rover
was only a little different from the
bicycle of today.
H. J. Lawson, another Englishman,
was first to produce a sprocket and
rear-wheel chain-drive bicycle, the
Bicyclette, in 1879, and this was adapted
from “The Flying Dutchman,” by H.
Bate, of Croydon, England, in which
pulleys and an endless cord were used
where chain and sprockets are now.
Between those days and the days, of
Baron von Drais there are some 80
pages, mainly of pictures, interspersed
with bicycle history; and very diverting
pictures they are. It is surprising to
find that the hobbyhorse (a straight-
line two-wheeler without steering) was
known in France as Velociiere, and its
riders were Velocipedes. The Draisine,
with steering, known in England as
the dandy-horse, hobbyhorse, patent
accelerator, bivector, bicipede and
pedestrian curricle, was highly fashion-
able with the young bucks and even
with the young ladies in their bonnets
and trailing skirts. It was merely two
same-size wheels with a seat between
them, with various ways of turning the
front wheel and a padded cushion to
take the pressure of chest and stomach
as the rider pushed himself along with
his feet.
The first steps —or wheels—towards
the bicycle were experiments with tri-
cycles; the Trivector of 1819 had seats
for three men to push it forward by
pulling back like oarsmen on levers.
But the first real advance towards the
bicycle was about the end of the 1830’s,
with the Macmillan and Dalzell models,
driven by pedals attached to cranks on
the rear-wheel hub. So simple a drive


The Sydney Morning Herald Prize Winning Novel
THE SUNLIT PLAIN
By H. D. WILLIAMSON
Set in a country town in N.S.W., this is the story of an orphan who grows up iu
poverty. Ambitious and enterprising, he takes a job with a shifty skin-buver and
sets out to become a Successful businessman, watched with interest by his adopted
family, to whom fortunes are most important. 18/9 (post 7d.)
At all booksellers and
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
S 9-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
THE PENGUIN BOOK
OF
AUSTRALIAN VERSE
Selected and edited by
JOHN THOMPSON, KENNETH SLESSOR and R. G. HOWARTH
320 Pages S/6
This is the first of a series of anthologies of poetry of the British Commonwealth,
to be followed by a Book of New Zealand Verse, and a Book of Canadian Verse.
It is a stimulating collection by the poets writing in Australia during the present
century, fifty-nine of whom are represented in the anthology. There are bio-
graphical and bibliographical notes on all the contributors.
From all booksellers
Penguin Books, 762 Whitehorse Road, Mitcham, Victoria
as the front-wheel pedal, still used on
children’s tricycles, took until about
1863 to invent, and even the French
cannot be quite sure whether the
inventor was Michaux or his employee
Lallement.
Anyway, the first patent for a
“rotary-action, crank-driven veloci-
pede” was granted in 1866. This
developed into the penny-farthing,
whose huge front wheel gave the
pedaller the increase of gearing which
the sprocket-and-chain gears give today.
Many gearings were even fitted to
the front-wheel drive of the penny-
farthing to complicate the simple pedal-
on-the-hub cranking; and a huge num-
ber of three-wheel and four-wheel con-
traptions were made to increase the
safety and carrying-power of the bicycle
—the multiple cycle, for instance, in
which three pairs of wheels carried six
men in tandem; the tricycles on which
women could be seated in front of the
handlebars to pedal or not, as the fancy
took them; tricycles with the big wheels
before or behind, with two small wheels
on one side and one huge, driving-
wheel on the other (the Coventry
Rotary); treadle-driven quadricycles
like a small coach-chassis . . .
The vogue of the penny-farthing
(the “ordinary,” with the big wheel
often in the rear) was considerable in
America until about 1893, when the
fashion went out as suddenly as tops
at school, and manufacturers were left
with huge stocks on their hands. One
explanation is that people grew tired
of falling from them.
It was the Starley invention, of a
bicycle with two moderate-sized wheels,
the rear-wheel at first smaller than the
front-wheel, which revived bicycling;
that, and the Scotsman, Dunlop’s,
invention, in 1888, of the piece of
rubber tubing that could be glued to
the rim of the wheel and inflated by a
vaive made from a baby’s milk-bottle
tube. The Frenchman, Michelin,
invented the demountable tyre, requir-
ing no glue, in 1891; and the Chica-
goan, John F. Palmer, the cotton-cord
tyre of 1892. There is an enthralling
account of how early riders on single-
tube tyres had to enlarge punctures,
push in plugs smeared with cement
and then pull the heads of the plugs
against tha wall of the tyre until the
cement set.
Then came the “featherweight”
bicycle weighing 81b. 140 z.; the chain-
less-drive cycle of John D. Rocke-
feller; the Army cycles mounting
machine-guns across the handlebars;
the French Army’s collapsible bicycles;
the bicycle as a racing-machine (it
reached its zenith, they say, in 1900);
the longest tandem ever made, a ten-
passenger tandem capable of 60 m.p.h.;
and the records.
It is really surprising to discover that,
protected from wind-resistance by a
train, “Mile-a-minute” Murphy did a
measured mile in 57 4/5 seconds in
1899. This stood for 42 years; then
Letourner, on “the highest-geared
bicycle ever built,” his front-sprocket
of 57 teeth driving a rear-sprocket of
six teeth, did a measured mile behind
a racing-car at 108.92 miles an hour:—
Sensational as were the feats of
Murphy and Letourner, in a trial of
endurance as well as speed Leon
Vanderstuyft, a European ace, ex-
ceeded them when, in 1926, on the
Monthlery, France, track he covered
76 miles 504yds. in one hour behind
a motorcycle.
Reviewed Briefly
A Clear Water Stream: Henry Wil-
liamson (Faber). This book is among
Williamson’s best. He took the tenancy
of two miles of fishing on a Devon
trout-stream, tried to improve his
angling, restocked the stream and got
to know each fish individually, and
the account of all this is interspersed
with visits to Canada, the Hebrides
and Florida. The result is delightful
and, while helping to explain some of
the complications of human feeling,
never loses its simple and delicate
humor. His description of eccentric
Arthur Heinemann, who once carried
the horn of the Eton College Beagles
and was later a Master of otter-hounds,
is exceptionally pleasing.
* * *
Parkinson’s Law or the Pursuit of
Progress: C. Northcote Parkinson
(Murray). An amusing and ruthless
satire aimed at modern Bumbledom in
the public services and in business.
Starting from Parkinson’s Law —-
“Work expands to fill the time available
for its completion”—the author has
evolved a theory which gives a comic
yet feasible explanation of the workings
of the committee-system, the manner of
determining precedence at official
cocktail-parties, etc., to “Pension Point
—the Age of Retirement.” Osbert Lan-
caster’s illustrations make the book
even more enjoyable.


ANNOUNCING —
THE NEW “AJAX” HYDRAULIC
WOOL PRESS
Still Priced Within The Range
Of EVERY FLOCKOWNER
THIS PRESS HAS THESE
OUTSTANDING FEATURES:
STRENGTH! The completely engineer designed box
with its powerful angle iron bearers and semi tubed slats is the
standard "AJAX." Since 1938, over 21,000 sheep men with
100,000's of bales, many over 500 lbs., have proved this strength.
When pressing, the pull is taken on a special imported H inch
STEEL CORE wirerope, needing no turn buckles or weak links.
SPEED! The ingenious framework efficiently handles the
monkey in and out of the press, with ease and speed, cutting
minutes off each bale.
The hydraulic hand pump with its double pistons ensures maxi-
mum speed with effortless pressing.
MOBILITY " The addition of five inch wheels makes this
press as simple to move from bin to bin as the standard "Ajax."
THE HYDRAULIC GEAR? After fifty years
experience in this country in shearing sheds and with wool presses
in particular, we have designed and are manufacturing in our
own factory, the powerful twin piston pump, cylinder and ram.
NOTE THESE FEATURES: The pump is encased in the sealed oil reservoir, doing away with unnecessary
joints and tubes, thus minimising leakage of fluid and evaporation of oil from one shearing season to another. A MINIMUM
OF SERVICE PROBLEMS.
The double piston means double pumping and so more speed and less effort.
The pump has a huge capacity. During the last fifty bales put through the test model, a bale of 524 lbs. of
stained pieces was pressed with the pump at less than three quarters capacity.
ONE presser with a lad throwing the wool from the bin, pressed five bales in thirty five minutes.
AGENTS IN ALL STATES ENQUIRE AT ANY MACHINERY MERCHANT OR WOOLHOUSE
Manufactured by
DONALD PATENTS LTD.
390 GLENMORE RD., PADDINGTON, N.S.W. PHONES: FA 1664, FA 7847
