

Now Available in a
6-VOLT SIZE!
CENTURY’S
PROVEN HOMELIGHTING
BATTERY....
Here’s a battery that brings a new conception in Homelighting
convenience.
IT’S CENTURY’S 613 CPG —a 6-volt battery with
transparent polystyrene container, glass insulation, and inbuilt
gravity ball hydrometer IN EACH 2-VOLT CELL.
613 CPG also contains SILVIUM, the magical LONG-
LIFE additive exclusive to CENTURY.
3 years’ practical experience all over Australia have
PROVED the superiority of this type of battery over
all others.
Century Homelighting batteries are supplied in WET and
FULLY CHARGED condition. Long experience has
shown that this is necessary to ensure the highest state of
efficiency.
&
m
sz
Manufactured bv CENTURY STORAGE BATTERY CO.,
LTD., Alexandria, N.S.YV.
Bradley Bros. Ltd., Grimly Ltd., Motor
Traders Ply. Ltd... Sydney; industrial
Sales and Service Pty. Lrd., Lidcondie; Century Storage Battery Co.
Pty. Ltd., Xorth Melbourne; Century Batteries (S.A.) Ltd., Adelaide:
P. "H. Pliillips Battery Supplies Pty., - Brisbane,; Plant and Plant
(Machinery! Pty. Ltd., Toowoomba; Samuel Allen k Sons Ltd., .Towns-
ville. ; Wyper Bros. Limited, Bundaberg; Advanx Tyre and Motor Service,
Cairns; Lawrence Motor Company, Rockhamptqn ; .GOTscr & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Maryborough ; Gyinpie Machinery k' Electrical Coy., Gympie; Jas.
Croker & Soils, Mackav ; Attwpod Motors Pty. Ltd., Perth;- C. C.
Boag Batteries, Hobart and Launceston; Allen Bros. (Darwin) Pl.y. Ltd.,
Darwin; Watson, Steele & Ganley Ltd., Auckland, N.Z.
DISTRIBUTED BY:
3$
£SS
.'-'r
m
Century's 013 CFG 6-volt Home! igh ting Battery.
Note inbuilt gravity ball hydrometer in all three
2-volt cells. These show the batterv's state of
-charge clearly visible at all times. A battery of
the same dimensions is also available as a 4-volt
unit.
GUARANTEED
3 YEARS
AT I.ITT:—A complete 36-volt set of 613 CPG
Home Lighting' batteries. Available also lot 32-
volt, aO-vol't and 110-volt installations. I*RICE
OF COMPLETE 32-YOI.T SET COMPRISING
AM) TWO I
'H AL CITIES
Send ihe coupon below lodav to CENTURY
STORAGE BATTERY CO., LTD., Birmingham
St., Alexandria, N.S.W.
Please send me full details of the Century 61 3 CPG
Home Lighting Battery.
NAME . .. ..
ADDRESS 1.......
The Bulletin
From Suez to Iraq
Wednesday, July 23, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered In Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


liOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G. 8.0., Sydney-
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us Hud it for you— tietioa,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful-
The Red Page
SO TO THE QUEEN MARY
Veterans of sail like Sir James Bisset,
who, with the collaboration of P. R.
Stephensen, has presented his early
years at sea in Sail Ho! (Angus and
Robertson), agree with marine artists
like Frank Mason, R. 1., who has illus-
trated The Romance of the Clipper
Ships, by Basil Lubbock (Hemel
Locke), upon the beauty of sailing-
craft. But if you compare the Mason
paintings (and the Allcot painting that
is Sir James’s frontispiece) with the
photographs in Sir James’s book of
“A three-masted barque with all sail
set” (page 32) and “A full-rigged ship
running before a moderate breeze with
mainsail and crojik furled” (page 160)
you can only conclude that ships are
very properly called “she”: plain bits
of raw material for the fantastic
embroideries of lovers and artists.
Masts become lengthened like women’s
legs to suggest stateliness; sails billow
out like false busts, full of the wind of
imagination . . .
Still, to want to go to sea at all and
break nails clawing at canvas a hun-
dred feet above the deck, and to see
the benefit and beauty of this life, a
boy of fifteen must be highly imagina-
tive; and such was James Bisset. Son
of a Liverpool accountant, determined
not to remain an office-boy in a Liver-
pool insurance-office, he cried himself
to sleep in his apprentice-bunk on the
half-deck of the County of Pembroke
the night before sailing, was seasick
next day, and then recovered sufficiently
to become Cunard Commodore and
war-time captain of the Queen Mary
and Queen Elizabeth.
This book presents his sail-days with
detail so exact as to make everyday life
at sea a pleasure for the reader. Bisset’s
tone of resignation at the attempts of
Newcastle ladies to entertain seamen
at the Mission; his huge binge on grapes
that was the beautiful and burning
memory of his first visit to Melbourne
—the feeling is so right as to make you
feel you’re there.
The main event of the early part of
the book is the story —to which he
leads-up with two very tall stories told
him by old seamen—of how he was
swept off the ship by one wave, held on
to a rope and, to his captain’s astonish-
ment, was swept back on deck by
another wave.
His third and last voyage in the
County of Pembroke, beginning in
1901, was the eventful one: it con-
cluded .with the voyage from the
Chincha Islands around Cape Horn to
Falmouth, loaded with guano, the
crew starving. The new captain,
anxious to please his employers, spent
no money on provisions at Newcastle
or again at Callao. Meat, butter, sugar,
peas, jam, molasses and tobacco gave-
out; the heat generated by the guano
fermented something in the water, and
when the crew tried to drink it with-
out the coffee, tea or cocoa, which had
also given-out, they were violently sick.
The crew threatened mutiny. The
captain, less by force than by propitia-
tion and evasion, held on his course.
In mid-Atlantic they stopped a steamer
and were given enough food to keep
them on their way, and so to Falmouth,
bacon-and-eggs and loving words from
the now-apprehensive captain; and a
great noise in the newspapers. The
owners blamed the captain, but Sir
James blames the owners.
Back in Liverpool young Bisset, now
out of his apprenticeship, studied navi-
gation and especially boxing. At nine-
teen he got his ticket as second mate
and went in the County of Cardigan on
his last voyage in sail: this voyage is
remarkable for the story of how Cap-
tain Roberts, distrustful of so young a
second mate, accused him of letting
the men broach the whisky cargo
during his watch, and at the inquiry had
a seaman confess:—
“It was while you and the mate was
on the poop, gazing astern We
wouldn’t do it in Mister Bisset’s
watch, sir, because ’e keeps ’is heyes
peeled! ”
There is also the story of the
“runners” engaged at Perth to work the
ship to Newcastle; real Australian sea-
men who explained that they were
there to work the ship, not to scrub
the decks, whereupon the captain made
so many sail-changes as to turn the
men out of every watch below. And
on the second-last page the young
second mate sits down at Queenstown
to write to the mother of the cabin-boy
lost overboard —very different luck
from Bisset’s own, who had been
washed back again, and whose most
serious illness seems to have been gripes
after the grapes of his first visit to
Melbourne.
Captain Williams dosed this illness
with chlorodyne, Bottle No. 15; when
Bottle 15 gave-out he mixed Bottle 10
with Bottle s—a5 —a diarrhoea mixture and
a cough mixture—because they added-
up to 15; and: “Almost immediately I
felt better. After two more doses I was
cured.”
LE CHAT DE MON AMI
Your cat, a felicity of unusually white
fur,
like all cats is always on the wrong side
of a closed door.
Robert, it’s scratching outside. Shall l
let him in ?
Reach back for the knob and awkwardly
give it a turn.
Off-balance, / open it a fraction and close
it again
on part of the cat. There's a yowl of
pain.
Why don’t you cut him a hole ? Or is
it a her ?
A small square opening, a sort of a door
in a door
with a bit of a curtain across. Cut it here
in the right-hand panel low down.
Meanwhile the cat
I let so clumsily in now wants to go out.
Robert, it’s painfully obvious women are
like that.
Were the door always open, would they
come any more ?
They’re always on the wrong side of a
closed door.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.
P.-o.-w. Stories
Prison-camps of World War II seem
to have provided an inexhaustible
variety of experiences; Details
Enclosed, by Ivan Chapman (Angus
and Robertson) is all fresh, at least as
news, though to say the atmosphere is
fresh would be to libel Chapman’s gift
for presenting the stale and rancid air
of prison days.
He did his time in German camps,
from his capture in Greece to his
liberation by the Americans. A remark-
able thing about this and other prison-,
books is the liberties p.-0.-w. could
take, and take for granted, within the
system. The German mind at its most
brutal seems capable of being mes-
merised by, if not a code, a habit of
procedure. Take the hated Feldwebel
Leug, coming in to the hut to triumph
over the fall of Singapore:—
“Singapore kaput!” he shouted.
“What do you say to that, you
Jewish swine? Answer me, you
lump of sewer refuse! ”
“Herr Feldwebel,” said Butter-
worth quietly in German, “if you
weren’t armed I would give you the
flogging of your life.”
The hulking Prussian said noth-
ing. He unbuckled his revolver-belt
and let it slide to the floor. Calmly
Butterworth put his glasses in their
case and got to his feet.
The smaller man unleashed five
minutes of terrible fury.. . .Sergeant
Leug emerged from the foray a
ghastly sight, with teeth missing or
loosened, face hammered to a spongy
red pulp, an eye hanging half out
of its socket. He dragged himself
(Continued on page 58)


w lAST'im can buy A RAZOR
'TAILOR-MADE'TO YOUR BEARD!
m
.... 4
mm
i'
P
Gillette
HEAVY
Gillette
MEDIUM
WEIGHT
for men with average
skin and beard
Iggjjgp Gillette
LIGHT
WEIGHT
for sensitive skins
or men who prefer
a light razor
WEIGHT
for tough beards or
men who prefer a
heavy razor
One is right for you ... will give wonderfully
clean, refreshing shaves. The secret lies in three
things:
1. The weight of the razor.
2. Angle at which blade meets the bristle.
3. Amount of blade edge exposed.
Each of the Superspeed Trio light weight,
in the blue case, medium weight, in the buff
case, and heavy weight, in the maroon case
contains a quick-action, one-piece razor and a
quick-feed dispenser of Blue Gillette blades for
superspeed blade changing. (Dispenser has
a used blade compartment in the back).
The right Gillette razor
tailored for your skin and
beard is in a handy
travel case with spring-
open lid.
Only
15'-
Gillette
&//>&£&&&/ TK/O
.
..
m
C 1958


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 23,1958
Vol. 79—No. 4093
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adam 9
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
SUEZ TO IRAQ
npHE muddle into which the world
has been plunged by adherence to
the United Nations and acceptance of
principles born mainly in Moscow and
cunningly turned to the purposes of
Communist world-revolution are being
thoroughly, and perhaps finally, demon-
strated in the Middle East.
The principles of U.N. were laid
down with a view to peace, but their
successful application depended on the
united acceptance of them and on the
willingness of the whole of the signa-
tories to the Charter to put world
strength behind them.
In practice, the United Nations has
only provided a manoeuvring-ground
for the Communists, and to a much
lesser degree, when it has suited their
interests, the Americans, Tx>th aiming
to create new zones of influence and
to oust the incumbents in the older
ones, the United Kingdom and France.
All their manoeuvres have been in
the name of “freedom.” but “freedom”-
has meant little but instability. The
only factor that has remained constant
has been the ability of the Russians
to do what they like, to veto any pro-
ceeding which they opposed and to
use force whenever they have wanted
to use it by virtue of superior strength
and belligerence.
As soon as Eastern Europe had been
subjugated by Russia, the vast plan of
Asian and African conquest began—
the great claw movement which was
to engulf and crush India and Burma
and the oilfields from each side,
obliterate Turkey as an independent
nation, leaving only Western Europe
to be captured on the Russian side of
the Atlantic, if it could not be Com-
munised.
The forces of Ho Chi-Minh were
organised with Moscow-trained leaders
and Chinese-supplied arms. So the
French went from Indo-China. The
Communist rebels of Malaya were
encouraged, armed and helped. The
Burmese were subverted. Nehru was
charmed into a sense of false security.
And in defiance of all agreements, all
international morality, South Korea
was attacked, and if the attack had
succeeded would have been used as q.
spearhead to assault Japan.
Then came the drive in the Middle
East. From Cairo to Damascus and
Baghdad, always the excuse was sup-
posed to be an upsurge of “national-
ism,” but always the prophets of
nationalism spoke the jargon of Com-
munism.
The campaigns have not always been
successful. The Indians have begun
to learn. The Kremlin made the mis-
' take of not crushing Tito until he
became too hot to handle. It failed
in Malaya. It realised that it could
not go further in Indo-China without-
world war. It was rebuffed by Japan,
and its mercenaries from China were
beaten back in Korea.
r pHE Kremlin and its satellites have
-*■ now reached the point of challenge.
By its bloody aggression and interven-
tion in country after country the Soviet
Union has lost all right to complain
against other aggression. It entered
Hungary to interfere with revolution
democratically achieved and success-
ful. It rolled-over this counter-
revolution. burning and murdering in
the name of “democracy,” and installed
its own Government, which it has
securely by the scruff of the neck.
Yet at the moment-there is world
crisis because a de facto Government
in Lebanon, a helpless little nation in
which strife is being persistently
fomented, has asked for and received
protective help (from the United
States) against rebels who were obvi-
ously armed from without and encour-
aged by belligerent demands from
Egypt and Moscow that they be left
to work their will.
How dare any nation send troops
into a country at the request of a local
Constitutional Government which was
actually providing a means whereby
its own regime could be overthrown
at an election in two months’ time!
The handful of United States troops
do not intend to fire a shot unless in
the name of the Government or to
protect their own 5000 nationals living
peacefully in the country, and these
specifically only till U.N. can act. The
British in Jordan are in the same
perfectly legal position. But Moscow,
which sent its armies unasked, or asked
for only by a beaten and unacceptable
Communist rabble, -to conquer Hungary
and install its puppets, yells with rage
at the thought of the United States so
acting “against the principles of the
United Nations,” and against the
British meeting the request of Jordan’s
king, who narrowly escaped assassina-
tion by Nasser’s agents a few days ago,
to come and help him keep the peace
of his kingdom.
There is no condemnation from
Moscow, from the Communist parties
of the world, or the soft-shelled Leftist
Oppositions who are prepared to sup-
port anything opposed to the views of
their own Governments, against the
events of Baghdad, no expressions of
the brutal violence and assassinations
there.
In a country with Parliamentary
institutions, and responsible Govern-
ment, a military clique in the approved
manner of Moscow has somehow
armed itself and assumed power by
dint of murder of its Constitutional
leaders and application of force to the
majority.
This is not astonishing. The avowed
objective of Russian Communism is
outright conquest of the world under
the guise of promoting peace, the
Leninist-Marxist theory being un-
changeably and avowedly - that peace
can only be attained by the obliteration
of capitalism. It is only when naked
aggression is being planned that
Moscow claims, as it has been claim-
ing in the past few weeks, that peace
can be attained by capitalism and
Communism trying to live together. It
did that on the verge of Hitler’s attack
on the world, and it is doing it now.
The U.N. has become a farce. Its
observers in Lebanon, a gaggle of
Persians and Indians and Burmese,
appeared to go blind, unable even to
see the rebels who prevented them
getting near the Syrian border to dis-
cover whether external forces were
infiltrating the country.
EVATT and other champions of
the right of the U.N. Security Coun-
cil to decide know just as well as any-
body that the power of the Security
Council in this matter is the power of
the Russian delegate exercised through
the veto, which is effective to prevent
action even if all other members vote
for action.- •
They have almost invariably either
backed, or been silent about, any move
by Russia, even when it has involved
deliberate aggression. They have been
silent now about the fact that the threat
is coming from Russia; that the
Russians, while condemning unilateral
action, were themselves the first to
threaten unilateral action if any small
nation in the Middle East dared to
. invoke the aid of treaty-friends to
maintain a Constitutional Government.
None of the strident critics of Britain
and the United States seem to be at all
concerned by Russia’s belligerent
threats to act unilaterally in the Middle
East. There seems, with the Evatts
and the Labor councils under the
influence of Communist hypnotism and
finance, to be one law for their own
countries and another for Moscow and
Peking.


POST-SUEZ FOURSOMES
“Looks like that crow’s got off with our ball, Dulles!”


PLAIN ENGLISH
L.-g. Experts Disagree
Two Sydney men experienced in local-
government have returned from world-
tours on which they studied local-govern-
ment practice in other countries. Sydney
Lord Mayor Jensen has come back
convinced that Sydney should be, bigger ;
R. S. Luke, former chairman of the
Cumberland County Council and past-
president of the Local Government Asso-
ciation, thinks it should revert to the
boundaries that existed before the big
extension of 1948 which wiped-out many
suburban municipalities and created the
present Greater Sydney.
Mr. Luke believes the City Council
should administer only the business and
commercial centre of the city, and he
feels that any move to make the area
bigger will result in the form of adminis-
tration becoming quite remote from the
people: “The only way local-govern-
ment can adequately function is to have
an informed contact between the electors
and the elected.”
Suggestions for a smaller municipal
area for Sydney are not likely to strike
any responsive chord with Local Govern-
ment Minister Renshaw, who is so
enamored with the idea of bigger cities
that he is planning to expand the Central
Western cities of Orange and Lithgow
into swollen wens of approximately out)
square-miles each, and Bathurst into a
somewhat smaller, but still greatly dis-
tended, area. The presidents of two
shire-councils in the Central West pro-
tested strongly last week against the
Minister’s apparent intention to go ahead
with his plan.
Councillor Locke, president of Turon
Shire, emphatically denied Renshaw’s
statement that the departmental plan
for amalgamations in the Central West'
resulted from requests received from
local-governing bodies in the region, and
that Turon Shire Council had asked for
a general review of all boundaries in the
Mitchell region.
Councillor Locke said his council did
not make any move to have its boundaries
altered. It submitted a plan which it
prepared under pressure and which the
Minister himself initiated. Mr. Ren-
shaw’s standover tactics had resulted in
many councils submitting proposals
against their will, that would be used at
the appropriate time as evidence against
them.
In Orange, Councillor Plowman, presi-
dent of Canobolas Shire, which is
threatened with abolition under the Ren-
shaw Plan, said that his council placed
no trust in the Minister’s suggested com-
mission on local-government. The Minis-
ter’s intentions were revealed by his
refusal to permit the Shires Association
and Local Government Association to
nominate their own representatives on
the commission, insisting instead of
choosing them himself from a panel of
names. • It was obvious that he would
favor men likely to lean towards the
departmental plan.
Councillor Plowman said that
Canobolas Shire would not be satisfied
with anything short of an amendment
to the Local Government Act making
a referendum a prerequisite of any
change in local-government boundaries.
Departmental Spending
[From Canberra]
Taxpayers with not much cause to look
forward to spectacular handouts in the
Budget on August 5 will be shaken by
the increases in the cost of Federal Gov-
ernment administration which have
become major features of expenditure in
each year’s Consolidated Revenue Fund.
Treasury, figures show that all depart-
mental expenditure in the financial year
to June 30 last was up almost £5 million
on that for 1956-57. It reached
£60,688,837, and is within striking-
distance of the total .Federal outgo (ex-
cept for business., undertaking) for
1938-39. In that last pre-war year
departmental expenditure was only
£4,030,287, which was a fifteenth of the
1957-58 figure, and less than last year’s
increase.
Last financial year’s total of £60,688,837
compared with £55,960,900 in 1956-57
and £52,679,003 in 1955-56. These figures
are apart from the cost of the Defence,
Services and Supply departments, which
are included under a separate item.
Costliest department to administer was
the Treasury, which spent £10,059,803
last year, up £700,000. The Treasury
includes the Taxation Department
branches in each State. ■
In order of cost, other departmental
expenditure was Civil Aviation £9,524,337,
Interior £4,550,601, Works £3,286,642,
Social Services £3,085,461, Prime
Minister’s £2,825,472, External Affairs
£2,188,030, Labor and National Service
£2,070,943, .Immigration £1,878,997,
Attorney-General’s £1,747,406, Health
£1,533,542, Trade £1,678,804, Primary
Industry £1,565,452, National Develop-
ment £1,318,674, Shipping and Transport
£1,164,246, Parliament £1,057,895, and
Territories £264,308.
In addition, the C.5.1.R.0. spent
£5,427,104 (probably worth every penny
of it) and the Australian Atomic Energy
Commission £1,331,090.
The increase of £8 million in depart-
mental cost's in two years has happened
despite repeated calls each year just be-
for Budget-time by Treasurer Fadden for,
cuts in departmental spending!
Revolt in the Desert
[From Abdul Assiz]
Arabs have always been traders, and
they have rarely allowed the disgusting
nature of the material dealt in, nor the
despicability of the deal, to interfere with
profits. British influence was paramount
only when it could work on fear and
greed.
It must be admitted, of course, that
Britain, like all other nations, was often
unfortunate in the choice of beneficiaries,
and that the methods of sowing British
gold sometimes caused ridicule and made
enemies. Witness the preference, as an
annuitant, of weakling Abdullah of Trans-
jordan to-ruthless Ibn Saud. On the
whole, however, the mistakes were honest
ones.
After World War I most of the world’s
gold was buried in U.S. vaults, and the
use made of it has been often foolish
and sometimes dishonest. A flagrant
abuse has been the overpayment of
Arabian oil-royalties—as part of a freeze-
out policy—and the U.S. pose of
“neutrality” during the Suez crisis did
the greatest possible amount of damage
to the cause of the Western democracies
at the least cost to its adversaries.
The Iraqi revolt is a logical conse-
quence of that error, and it is ironical
that it should have been made possible
through American oil-dollars paid to
dummy King Saud and then through his
brother Feisal (the real ruler of Saudi
Arabia) to Nasser. The spectacle of the
once blood-proud house of Saud frater-
nising with Egyptian guttersnipes is
repulsive, to put it mildly.
It is little wonder that Nasser was
allowed to leave Russia in good health,
although it was known that he would
spend a holiday with Tito. Rarely has
a monkey been so gainfully employed to
pull chestnuts out of the fire for the
Russian benefit. Above all, it is a joke
in the best Muscovite style!
False Prophet
[By R.F.FAL]
While serving in the War Office, I was
ordered in 1951 to arrange a course to
teach eight lieutenant-colonels and
majors of the Egyptian Army how the
Office was organised.
Originally trained by' the British
Military Mission, the Egyptians had
taken matters into their own hands
with an insouciance that was shattered
by the results of the first Israeli war.
It was King Farouk’s clean-up of his
country’s military administration that
had been the reason for these officers
being sent to London.
Before the course started I looked
at the name-cards being inscribed
by the draftsman and noted that one
was made out for “Lieut.-Col. Camel
Abdel Nasser.” Pointing-out that the
first name was obviously wrong and
indiscreet into the bargain, I had it altered
to the correct “Gamal.” The name,
however, stuck in my mind as being
unusual and, in some queer way, sinister.
The names of officers, in this class
have been constantly recurring in the
news ever since Farouk was expelled
from Egypt, and their faces stare at me
from time to time in newspaper-photo-
graphs. The famous “dancing major
was one of my students, and the others
now all appear to hold high positions
in the forces of the United Arab
Republic.
Nasser, when I knew him, showed
no sign of the greatness or courage that
one should expect from one who, since
that time, has founded an empire in the
guise of acting against imperialism an
who now, at the head of a singular y


NOTICE TO W.A. READERS
W.A. postal-subscribers’ copies of THE
B i; L L E T I N are now being AIK-
FREIGHTED to Perth every Tuesday (day
of printing), then dispatched to addresses
by ordinary mail through Perth P.O. every
Wednesday morning (Sydney publishing-
day).
This service should result in Perth sub-
scribers receiving THE BULLETIN on
Wednesday afternoons, , whilst subscribers
outsiue Perth will experience only the extra
delay normal for mails , dispatched from
Perth to their districts.
Air-freight cost per copy is only 8d.,
compared with 2/2J when sent ordinary
airmail. As the cost of THE BULLETIN
is lid. per issue (on a one-year-subscrip-
tion basis), an air-freight copy will cost
only 1/7.
A SUBSCRIPTION - FORM IS PUB-
LISHED IN THIS AND EVERY ISSUE.
A Perth subscriber, already taking advan-
tage of this service, writes: “An excel-
lent investment.”
unwarlike nation, threatens the peace of
the world.
How has he got into that position?
Mainly, it would appear, because he is/
the most pliable of men —the opportunist,
the prince of “yes-men.” Seeing his-
opportunity, when Farouk was thrown
out, he, calculatingly, backed Neguib
and at an appropriate moment sup-
planted him. Then he set himself to
rouse hysteria among the masses of
Egypt (who, incidentally, cannot under-
stand one word of what he speaks until
it is translated for them by those who
behind the scenes are the mainspring of
Islamic action).
Nasser is not a leader—-he has not the
qualities of leadership—but he is an
effective mouthpiece for others who have
their own axes to grind. He is also
not an Arab but an Egyptian of obscure
origin— not unlike /those who sell
“feelthy” postcards at Port Said.
The Middle East Welter
[By “Ek Dura”]
During a week of ominous movements
round the Middle East, the news pub-
lished by the Australian press —as dis-
tinguished from rumor and surmise and
opinion—might well have been written
as:
A plot to assassinate the Kins of Jordan
tad failed. Immediately afterwards, a
Plot to seize the King of Iraq on the verge
of his departure for the Baghdad Fart
meeting in Istanbul with the Prime
-Minister, the veteran Nuri-es-Said, friend
of T. E. Lawrence, long-term friend of
Britain, the builder of Iraq, succeeded.
The King was murdered yifter a '■‘court-
martial,” the whole Royal family wiped out.
Prime Minister Nuri was brutally mur-
dered. A “Young Officers’ party” took
control, much by the same methods as
"ere used in Cairo. They declared that
Iraq would join the Federal Arab Re-
public. There were virtually no authentic
details of events either from Baghdad or
from Habbaniyeh, the R.A.F. post in tkie
desert where there are 800 British airmen
mid 300 dependents—all now declared safe.
At the request of the Lebanese Govern-
m ent the Americans sent forces into
Lebanon to forestall any move from with-
out. At the request of Jordan, British
paratroops were flown into Jordan.
American troops also were flown into
southern Turkey and a base established
covering the Cilician Gate through the
Taurus Range, on the old invasion-route
a t Adana.
All leave in the Turkish Army was
stopped. Moscow reported the beginning
°f “massive manoeuvres” in Bulgaria and
a '°ng the Kars border of Turkey.
Moscow blustered of United States
aggression and threats and demanded
, hat U.S. troops should get out of
Lebanon forthwith, while at the same
uue sponsoring resolutions before the
utile U.N. Security Council, without the
lightest intention of recognising any-
‘ug that the Security Council or any-
°dy else save the Kremlin Should decide.
Nasser, who had evidently been using
ugoslavia as a staging-base within easy
•stance of hfS masters, flew hurriedly to
OS u The Security Council met in
abusive atmosphere, made shrill by the
usations of Sobolev, the Russian dele-
e > who was the sole member to vote
‘ ainst a resolution for the establishment
an international police-force in
Lebanon under U.N. control. Under the
absurd procedure and powers of per-
manent members he was able to veto the
resolution passed by a vote of 9-to-l.
Similarly, Russia was the only nation
to vote for its resolution calling for the
withdrawal of U.S. troops from Lebanon.
Both the U.S. and the Russians have
called for an emergency-meeting of the
U.N. Assembly on the crisis, but that
flaccid body is useless in the situation,
especially since Khrushchev has decided
to by-pass it and has called for a summit
meeting of the great Powers, adding
some insulting remarks about their
“brazen imperialist aggression, gross
encroachment, on the sovereignty of the
Arab peoples, unceremonious violation
of U.N. principles.”
If the guns are “starting to fire,” as
he suggests in his message, they are
Russian-provided guns. If there is a
threat of war which will entail “the
destruction of many millions of people”
and the “annihilation of tremendous
material and cultural values,” nobody
proposes to start it except Khrushchev,
and nobody has prepared for it.
If anybody has inflamed war-passions
over the past few years and is inflaming
them now, it is only Khrushchev and
his stooges bent on world-conquest. And
for any catastrophe he will be responsible.
Both British and Americans have made
it plain that they are where they are
legally at the request of de facto Govern-
ments only for the purpose of stopping
the fire spreading, and that they will get
out as soon as the Governments of
Lebanon and Jordan desire them to
move ; or when the U.N. has decided
bn substantive action. Their course of
action now. has the assent of the Security
Council majority.
• Two things are certain. From the
train of events during the past month,
developments in Lebanon, Jordan and
Iraq are the product of well-laid plans
i/i which both Moscow and Nasser have
been the main parties.
Nasser visits Moscow. At the same
time there is a confusing world-
propaganda, with Khrushchev as its
' spearhead, to destroy the chance of a
summit conference while pretending to
advocate it. All Ambassadors of Russia
and China are called home for consul-
tation.
The scandal of the Hungarian murders
is let-out to create a diversion. The flare-
up in Lebanon begins, obviously armed
from Syria—the reports of Mr. Hammar-
skjold’s observers have now made it clear,
despite their earlier blindness, that in the
few days before the Americans landed
marines there was actually shelling across
the Syrian border.
As far back as June 22, when there
was no suggestion of intervention that
had not come from the Russian-Cairo
side, Nasser, at a banquet in Cairo (after
he and Nkrumah of Ghana had just
issued a joint statement expressing their
belief in “a policy of neutrality- and
realignment”), said that Britain, U.S. and
France were involved in “conspiracies so
that they may come back to dominate
this area.” This followed the summoning
to the Cairo Ministry of all
Western diplomatic representatives so
that an imperial ukase might be issued
to them “against any foreign interven-
tion in Lebanon” —where it is now evi-
dent Nasser himself, in pursuance of his
policy of positive neutrality, no doubt
was master-minding the rebellion.
Followed various conferences of the
Communist parties of Eastern Europe,
under the tutelage of visiting top leaders
from Moscow, Khrushchev himself going
to East Germany. Both in Berlin and
at the Czech conference delegates from
as far afield as China were present.
In the area east of the Persian Gulf
at this time conditions were disturbed.
The Iraq economic situation was pretty
desperate, and agitators were not want-
ing in the task, over Cairo Radio, of
insinuating into Iraqi minds the conclu-
sion that the depression was due to the
expense of the federal alliance yvith
Jordan. Pressure was on to induce the
British to buy more Iraq oil at the expense
of Kuwait and at a greater royalty.
On June 25, Nuri-es-Said, Iraq’s Prime
Minister, in London gave full support
to a policy of intervention in Lebanon
by the West if the Government there
asked for it. He said that Nasser had
asked for forces to protect the Gaza
Strip, and “that had not been looked on
as dangerous.” Why should it be more
dangerous to protect the Lebanese than
protect Nasser? If Lebanon asked for
help from Iraq to prevent itself being
swallowed by the Arab Federation he
would know what to do.
He added:
Egyptian officials and service-attaches
have encouraged subversion, and stocks of
explosives and arms have been found in
Iran, Jordan, Lebanon and other Arab
States. Over a year ago Nasser denied
that he had any intention of becoming
head of all the Arab States, but in
Moscow Khrushchev has said that he
hoped to see Colonel Nasser head of all the
Arab States. This was what was happen-
ing in Lebanon and elsewhere. Unless
it was checked the trend would turn out
in favor of Communism throughout the
Middle East. It had long been Russia’s
policy to break-through to the Mediter-
ranean and Persian Gulf.
This statement apparently signed Nuri’s
death-warrant when conjoined with a
stiff financial policy announced after his
return, which included a severe and
highly unpopular taxation plan.
Less than three weeks later the Red
flowers began to bloom in Amman and
Baghdad.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Tn this Victorian town first time I’ve
noticed an old Dutch custom trans-
planted to Aussie—a stork set-up on the
chimney indicating a visit of the bird of
' fertility to the house below—“Corio.”~"~
♦>
‘ Driftsand' : Modern electrical
appliances may be a boon in the
home, but they tend to supersede.
A week’s enforced absence of neighbor
Bill’s wife found Bill extolling the virtues
of an automatic frying-pan: “If they had
invented the automatic frying-pan thirty
years ago a bloke wouldn't have needed
a wife.”
“Taka”: At the end of last century we
had a teacher whose method it was to
hurl a question at a named individual and
expect the answer hurled back pronto.
So: “What is the meaning of helter-
skelter?” Caught off balance, the pupil
stammered “Hell-for-leather, Miss.” To-
day that answer would have earned top-
marks for aptness. Instead it earned him
bottom-marks—six—for “using such
shocking language in school.”
❖ ❖
“An Chuidh”: Jock may love to have
his blow with the Sydney Symphony (B.
2/7/’5B), but the trouble is that the other
instruments used by the orchestra are not
tuned in the same way as the noble
instrument he plays. The bagpipe is based
on a pentonic scale with two added notes
to enlarge the scale. But these do not
correspond with the usual diatonic scale,
and it is because of this that the bagpipe
is such stirring music for dances and for
laments. It’s a wonder some inventive
genius hasn’t tuned the pipes to -take their
place in the orchestra —but no true High-
lander would play such a debased instru-
ment. Let the orchestras be tuned to the
pipes!
❖ <*
“Blocker”: A friend of mine has
taken-up part-time process-serving in
order to keep process-servers from visit-
ing him, His area covers Port and South
Melbourne, and at. first he found it
virtually impossible to locate his clients.
Streets were poorly lit, house-numbers
missing or indecipherable, and the resi-
dents imbued with the cop-it-sweet
tradition. But now he can enter a street
and go immediately to the correct
address. He says it’s easy ; the garden
is a’lways overgrown with weeds, there’s
a TV-aerial up, and a brand-new car in
the drive.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Joanne”: Steel-making traditionally
has been a source of casualties among
workers ; but three employees at Com-
monwealth Steel, Ltd., at Newcastle
(N.S.W.) have an accident-free record:
S. Craddock, a quencher employed for 33
years ; J. Morton, crane-driver, 33 years;
and E. Slade, press-driver, 38 years.
Slade has driven a 2000-ton press since
-1924.
*l* *4f ♦>
“Choices”: From the agony-column of
a Brisbane daily: “An Organising Super-
visor desires meet tall businessman or
grazier, 55/60, V.M.” While that is what
we all get after a year-or two of married
life, at least she was-Tionest enough too
warn him.
» ❖ ❖
“Hug”: Director of the Australian
region of the Y’s Men’s Club set a target
of half-a-million stamps to be collected
and sent to the U.S. to be sold on the
open market and the money accredited
to the Bishops’ Fund, originally started
in the U.S. to send bishops overseas,
now used to send overseas delegates to
conferences in America. Ballarat (Vic.)
club was given a target of 45,000 stamps.
Its Y’s men passed their target within
two months ; the last stamps sent away
brought their total to 46,149. The only
other club in Australia to reach its
target was Canberra. From this total
it is expected £3OO would be raised.
"S-s-sh! You'll Wake the new baby-sitter!”
TIME FOR THOUGHT
“Armi'dale. Council haying rejected an otter
of a new clock from its Chamber ot Commerce
and the Rural Bank, an Armidale electrical
engineer, George Maina, spent a weekend
removing a chatfbagful of straw taken to the
tower by the birds, 200 broken light-bulbs and
several empty spirit-bottles; and the clock
went.”
The Armidale clock, it was. just for the
birds
And they brought it a chaff bag of
straw ;
Their contempt for machinery went
beyond words,
And they taught it too coo and to caw.
To help it to lay a tomorrow every day
They strewed broken light-bulbs about,
And a flask or two of rum, —but the clock
stopped short
When the nun ran out.
The aldermen thought this was rather a
knock
For a city of Armidale’s rank,
And they almost accepted a brand-new
clock
From the Chamber of Commerce and
a bank ;
They were partial to thrift, yet they
couldn’t take a. gift,
And so the proposal was dropped:
Their independent stand was applauded
through the land- —
And the clock stayed stopped.
But then an electrical engineer,
Not holding the council in awe,
Spent a weekend busily sweeping clear
The bulbs and the bottles and the
straw;
Then the clock began to go . . . but what
people want'to know
Is whether his action was a crime :
It would hqrdly shock the wise, or
occasion much surprise
If they gave him time.
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


The marriage whose consumma-
tion is unduly delayed may be
unusual in real life, but in serialised
stones in some of the women’s
magazines it’s always happening. A
young couple, unknowingly in love, find a
pretext for a marriage-of-convenience. A
dozen episodes later circumstances bring
their true feelings to the surface. With
the end obvious enough from the begin-
ning, it’s puzzling why such stories have
such appeal. My theory is that the woman
reader, eager for the inevitable, flatters
herself that if she. had been in the wife s
shoes the undiscerning husband’s eyes
would have been opened far more
speedily—“Doynest.”
❖ ♦♦♦
“Zake”: A cable to my afternoon
daily told of a New Zealand husband
who, to catch his wife with her alleged
lover, “hid behind a bassoon” in his
music shop. Well, if ever they think
of remaking the “Thin Man” crime-
thriller films, this cove, who has no diffi-
culty in making himself invisible behind
a cylinder of wood about 3in. in diameter,
should be a soda for the title-role.
❖ *£♦
“Ex-R.S.M.”: That violinist who found
the cold of Ballarat too much for her
18,2/7/’5B) will have plenty of sympa-
thisers. During the last war, when it was
an Army convalescent depot, it was all
right in summer, but in winter it was
I hell. In vain did people draw attention
f to the winter sunshine of places such as
Mildura; the heads were adamant. I’ve
: heard men say they’d sooner go over the
I Kokoda Trail again than put in another
, spell at Ballarat Con. Depot. An
unofficial reason for the choice was that
men would declare themselves fighting-fit
to get out of it.
»> *
Judee”: Sergeant Short told the New-
castle (N.S.W.) Court of Petty 'Sessions
that the old man charged with having no
)' ls tb!e means of support had “surrendered
himself unto her Majesty’s custody.”
‘he old man, unkempt and in need of
a haircut, explained, that he had given
“mself up because it was too cold to
sleep out o’ nights. Imposing a sentence
0 hive months’ jail Mr. Hardwicke
Sjoa: “Well, that will put you through
: ‘he winter.”
* * ❖
Sevenelms”: In the Melbourne of his
hie Grandfather, from his house in Joli-
ont, previously Governor Latrobe’s pre-
p,'lCatecf home, walked his family to
q a '^ ers Church across the Fitzroy
0 , i ens > w hose creek, not yet ignomin-
(hPJ tuc ked into a drain, was now and
nor IVe^y f res het. Neither the distance
reacn ♦ Water 'hazard was thought good
so p n the coachman’s Sabbath,
of u, r n n j P , a s . P ra ctice was to wear a pair
and h Wellingtons, ferry wife
into v- te , r tbrou 8 b the flood, change
\y e in ls k . §°‘ng boots and hang his
his Tetnr oo / ln tlle nearb Y willow to await
later u * OUr hymns and a Scots sermon
must have confirmed his faith
in human nature that no delinquent, in
his absence, ever planted his waders, filled
them with water or hung them on a really
high branch.
♦>
“Siosal”; Certain Sydney newspapers
play “tops” as resolutely as any small
boy or street barrowman. One issue
alone proclaimed that “top” legal advisers
were looking into a report that “top-
line” detectives were investigating a case,
that other “top” cops were doing this or
“Hands up all those in favor of crowning her Miss Iceberg for 1958!”
that, and that “top” Communist Thom-
ton was facing a traffic charge. Well,
here 1 am topping them off.
+ „
*** ■ v *
“Mara”: There’s a furrier’s window in
Sydney wherein the luxuriant-looking
coats on display are set-off with stuffed
mink, racoons, cougars, wallabies,
possums, a fox or two, even a koala —
but no stuffed representative of the Lepus
euniculus family. Is it that Brer Rabbit
and jy[ me . Lapin have become so rare
t bat even the best of furriers cannot land
a specimen for display?
,♦«. ♦♦♦
* + , ,
“Jaybee”: The lights had just changed
and a beautiful business-girl, obviously
late for work, ran against the Don t
Walk” signal and just caught a tram
before it started. The constable on du y
stopped the tram and made the girl ge
off. After waving the tram-driver on he
proceeded to lecture the girl then e
realised that the tram hadn t •
Pausing in his lecture he instructed e
conductor to proceed. The conductor
furiously rang the bell. The ri '^ r
ignored the. request. The constable
reddened. Again he ordeied t e con-
ductor to proceed. Again the bell was
rung, but to no avail. By this time
hundreds of office-workers were ranged-
up at the lights, all amused at the switch
of embarrassment fronrthe pretty girl to
the policeman. The lights changed, the
policeman returned to point-duty, the
pretty girl reboarded the tram, and with
a smile the tram-driver started-off to
get the girl to work on time.
♦l< «j» »j»
“Nai”: There was only one other cus-
tomer in the suburban pub where I was
sipping a lonely beer. He was an elderly
bloke and, oblivious of the barmaid and
me, carried on an animated conversation
with the mirror behind the bar. He told
his reflection what he thought of Nat
King Cole (and that was plenty!), dis-
cussed the horrors of the atom- and
hydrogen-bombs and visualised the
catastrophe of the cobalt-bomb, pilloried
the State Guvment for its dependence on
lot’ries, the totalisator and poker-machines,
and then said, prodding a belligerent
finger at the mirror: “As for the Hurseys
—you tell me! I’ve run out bf words!”
♦> ♦♦♦ ❖
“Ceg”: The building adjoining a large
city bank had been heightened, so the
fireplace in a v.i.p.'s room smoked badly
when the wind was from the east. The
bank’s architect, given to spats, chamois
gloves, and a bowler hat worn at a rakish
angle, advised on the matter ; the pend-
ing chimney was raised, but still the
nuisance continued. He maintained that
smoking was now impossible, but agreed
to call on a day when the wind was from
the east. In due course he was phoned
to come round, and there was the big
coal-fire burning brightly and drawing


well. “There you are,” he said ; “nothing
wrong with that,” and smiled blandly.
He then got down on all fours, just to
see how beautifully the fire was drawing,
when a lovely gust decanted a cloud of
smoke mixed with fine soot all over him.
He got to his feet and turned to face us:
the impersonation of A 1 Jolson, even to
the gloves, was complete. He’s mow in
a place where smoky chimneys and fires
no longer worry him —-at least, I hope so.
♦♦+ * *
“Dash D.”: Mary Grant Bruce thought
of switching from the popular “Billa-
bong” books to historical adventure-
stories. At a literary get-together she was
discussing her plot for the first book with
Donald McLean and Vernon Williams;
“Next! And make it snappy—Doctors flat-out !”
it was founded on the legend of the
banked-up waters of Curdies River fore-
ing a new course and washing up the ribs
of an old Spanish galleon. A little puzzled
at laughs from the two, M.G.B.
remarked acidly as she moved away: “I
shall call the book The Mahogany Ship.”
McLean called her back and explained.
Both he and Williams had written books
on the legend, and each had called the
book The Mahogany Ship. -Williams’s
book was the first to go to press and he
was able to retain , the original title.
McLean made a hurried change to The
Luck of the Gold Moidore.
❖ ♦>
Brick E. ’: That Sydney architect
must surely have been of the old school
if he was astonished at being asked to
draw-up plans and for a
fowlhouse (B. 2/ 7/ ’5B). Modern archi-
tects- so my weekly rag informs me, are
the fathers of the plans it prints every
Sunday. The creations invariably bring
on my nostalgia: I see again the houses
we used to build around the old home,
white Leghorns and all. Seems to me
that a modern architect’s real consterna-
tion would start if somebody asked him
to design something that looked a bit
like a house.
❖ *** ***
“Bo”: An international medical con-
ference envisages the day in the not-so-
distant future when each home will have
its own sick-bay equipped with a tele-
vision-set enabling the g.p. to diagnose
and treat his patient without having to
leave his surgery. This will allow the
doc. to exercise some subtlety. Instead
of brutally informing you that your
innards have to undergo a spot of
plumbing, he can delicately indicate
the necessity of an operation by throw-
ing on to your screen a bit of
thriller-film showing a' murderer creep-
ing up the stairs holding a knife. Or
there may be a natural hazard when he
asks you to cough just at the moment
when a technical fault in your set con-
nects you with another station, and a
graveyard bark is emitted in a before-
he-takes-it bronchitis-cure ad. There’ll
be one catch: with no consulting-room
to go to, the patient of the future will
have to supply his own seven-year-old
“Saturday Evening Posts.”
* * *
“Tom Trout”: Abroad, one appreciates
the luxury of Australian cinema-going.
The Continent lavishes love and money
on theatres and opera-houses, but any
barn will do for the flicks. Britain stifles
one with tobacco-smoke in Stygian,
cramped caverns, knees of the bloke
behind bashing one’s spine, continuous
showings which have half the audience
almost continuously on its feet to let
the other half pass in or out of the
narrow rows, and a Turkish-bath lift of
the heating each interval to boost the
selling of ice-cream and orangeade., l£aly
boosts the sale of its gelato with an inter-
val shoved in the middle of even an
ordinary-length film.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Narumee”: Biggest problem for us
wearers of the new, short, tight skirts
won't be solved unless car-designers go
along with the couturiers in reverting to
the ’twenties ; you can’t step in and out
of a modern car without side-splitting
consequences —ingress and egress are
accomplished only by inelegant reeling
and writhing with a swivel to complete
the operation. Mum didn’t fare nearly so
badly —her step-ins, though knock-kneed,
were greatly facilitated by running-
boards !
❖ ❖ ❖
“Benbow”: Eligibility means educa-
tion to our neighbor, a tough old boy
who didn’t get much of it himself. His
family is married except for a much
younger daughter, now about 19, who
was heard giving phone directions to
her escort for the forthcoming Amateur
Race Ball: “ and don’t forget to
bring your matriculation-certificate—
Dad is sure to want to see it.”
REFRESHING FRANKNESS
Prosecutor: “Were you not surnmarilj
ejected?” Accused: “I was shot out, if thats
what you mean.”
He might have answered thus
Had he liked devious
Tergivisation:
That, deeming him de trop,
His host had not been slow
To aggravation;
This culminated in
What he would term akin
To strong revulsion
Which caused his host to effect
Action that was direct —
His swift expulsion.
The bright-hued blooms of speech,
Used some defence to breach
Might be delighting
To Bench and Bar alike.
This bloke they seemed to strike
As rather blighting.
It’s obvious in his joint
They come straight to the point
(And in both senses!)
He has no urge to ken
The highbrow talk; no yen
For nice pretencesw
When slung out neck and crop
He needs no soothing sop
Of softening phrases.
He rides no false-pride limb;
A spade’s a spade to him. '
So sing his praises!
There in the dock he may
' Confidently essay
Frank speech to trot out,
Fully aware that he
Isn’t likely to be
Summarily shot out!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


A Politician's Collection
Howlers and Anecdotes
By MARTIN NESTOR
Following his announcement that
he intended to resign from political
life, a Minister of the Crown in
New Zealand confided in me that
it was his intention to destroy all his
political records. This is done by an
overwhelming majority of politicians, and
is the reason why students of political
science find it so difficult to write theses
on them or on political parties.
Without going further into that aspect,
in this instance the upshot was that the
Minister’s files were entrusted to my
keeping, to be preserved or destroyed as
I thought fit. As far as possible they will
be preserved; but for many years to
come information contained in them will
not be available for publication. This,
however, does not apply to one amusing
section —the Minister’s “joke”-file.
As most politicians do, he kept a
record of pithy jokes and howlers which
could be incorporated in speeches. Some
of the howlers are originals, but the jokes
are unlikely to have been ; over the years
they were collected from various sources,
including, I imagine, various publications.
They are, nevertheless, of interest in that
they proved useful to a politician —and
perhaps might serve a turn for others
called on to make a speech.
First, a few original howlers, uttered
in the Chamber of the House of Repre-
sentatives in New Zealand:
A Labor Minister: “The answer is the
same question as was put to the Opposi-
tion in 1930-35 as a matter of fact for
the reason why and they could not answer
it as a matter of fact and that’s the
reason why they are over there are we
are over here. It all comes to the same
thing.”
Another, from a colleague: “The
people are chained to the wheel of the
giant octopus which is sucking the life-
blood of the country.”
A few more:
. “I remember how tough things were
>Mhe height of the depression.”
'The rates of pay vary from 16s. to
ISs. per day. The reasons for this dis-
Paragementation are ”
‘Don’t you worry about me. I’ll be
there if I’m here.” (He was a member of
the who expected to be on
he Government side of the Chamber if
I agree with everything the hon.
gentleman has said, but he doesn’t know
Hat he is talking about.”
Whether this is original or not I do
°t know: “May the ship of State sail
n till it reaches the top of the tree.”
T° collection of New Zealand per-
petrations was added some from
overseas:
Devlin, who was one of the
most popular of the Nationalists in the
House of Commons during the Home
Rule agitation, declared on one occasion:
“I and my colleagues are the only people
who can come to this House and speak
with clean hands.”
At a political meeting at Accrington
Lord Derby declared: “We have got at
the next election to give the third, and I
hope the last, death-blow to Home Rule.”
One by Lord Balfour probably merits
elevation to a higher class: “The noble
lord shakes his head, and I’m pleased to
hear it.”
Obviously intended for use in a speech
at a gathering of master-builders was this
pithy anecdote :
A builder who was responding to the
toast of his health at a dinner to celebrate
the completion of a notable building
described himself as “more fitted for the
scaffold than for public-speaking.”
It is also easy to guess why the col-
lector included this description of the
purpose of advertising: “To induce the
public to consume goods concerning
which they would otherwise be indiffer-
ent.”
Less obvious is the reason for including
a Scottish divine’s explanation to his
flock: “The Almighty is obliged to do
many things in His official capacity that
He would scorn to do as a private indi-
vidual.” Or the parson’s lament: “When
I look at the congregation, 1 ask, where
are the poor? And when I count the col-
lection, I ask, where are the rich?”
(Party funds might have been coming in
rather slowly when he selected that one
for permanent record.)
Oocial Security has been a live issue in
New Zealand for many years, and,
indeed, the Labor party’s proposal to
increase the family benefit by 50 per cent,
was a major plank in Labor’s 1957
general-election manifesto. In the Social
Security section of the anecdote-file are
a number of stories which have some
bearing—very slight, in some cases —on
medical, pharmaceutical and other
benefits:
“Any person who goes into a chemist’s
shop is entitled to a run for his money.”
“My father weighed only two pounds
when he was born.” “Is that so? And
did he live?”
Wives of soldiers in receipt of Army
allowances for themselves and children
having been instructed to notify the
officials of any addition to their family,
one lady wrote: “In accordance with
your instructions, I last night gave birth
to a daughter.”
Some others:
“The space in the graveyard being now
limited, no one will be buried here in
future except those that live in the
parish.”
(<Continued on page 49)


POLITICAL POINTS
The key to the hypocrisy of the situa-
tion arising from ithe pro-Nasser coup
in Iraq lies in Russia’s statement that
the Middle East is vital to its security
and that therefore it will not allow any
penetration by the Western Powers, which
have been long established there, and
which have turned Iraq and Persia and
other countries into rich States by the
investment of capital and the technical
and marketing development of the oil-
industry.
On the same ground, a hundred times
more valid, the Russians should be
threatening to invade West Germany,
where Allied forces are just across the
border from the Russian colonial empire
and not hundreds of miles away across
vast mountain - ranges and trackless
plateau as in the case of Iraq and
Lebanon.
• •
Dr. Evatt’s criticism of the action of
America and Britain in going into
Lebanon and Jordan when requested by
the rulers of those two countries instead
of first seeking United Nations approval
explains how the whole trouble could
have been avoided. Obviously young
Feisal, instead of allowing himself to be
murdered, should have appealed to the
United Nations as soon as he saw the
rebels draw their guns.
* •
Khrushchev in his letter to Macmillan
reminded that “the first links in the chain
of events which led to the Second World
War were the small and local wars and
the seizure of territories of other coun-
tries.” He did not mention that a week
before World War II broke-out Russia
signed a pact with the Nazis who had
done the seizing referred to and that the
pact provided for Russia I 'to seize half the
territory of Poland.
• •
When N. S. Wales Premier Cahill got
back from his previous overseas trip— to
the Coronation —Heffron handed him a
surprise-packet in the shape of an obliga-
tion to legislate for compulsory-unionism.
It has since proved rather a hot potato.
This time the Deputy Premier is ready
with another gift—the A.L.P. conference
instruction to bring in equal-pay or else.
That’s the trouble about these holiday-
trips ; there’s always the problem of
having to come down to earth when one
gets home again.
• •
While Prime Minister Menzies was
driving through Portland on his Meet-
the-People tour of Victoria he was hit
by an apple thrown, apparently, by a
schoolboy. The chances of the Portland
apple becoming as famous as the War-
wick egg —which hit Billy Hughes—were
spoilt by the local police-sergeant, who
said he couldn’t believe any of the Port-
land kids would deliberately throw an
apple at the Prime Minister, and sug-
gested that maybe it was thrown to him.
More likely the culprit was a youngster
who had heard of the efficacy of apples
for keeping doctors away, but had got
his political leaders mixed.
« •
Living-cost's in N. S. Wales remained
virtually stationary in the June quarter,
according to the , Commonwealth Statis-
tician’s Crser-ies index-figures released on
Friday. by one per cent.,
clothing by 0.8 per cent, and miscel-
laneous items by 0.1 per cent.,- but these
rises were counterbalanced by a drop of
1.2 per cent, in food prices, so that the
overall change was a drop of 0.2 • per
cent. —too small to warrant a change in
the basic wage.
In Hobart, too, the index remained
stable, but in the other capitals costs rose
by a basicrwage equivalent of Is. in
Melbourne, 4s. in Perth 1 and 6s. in
Adelaide and Brisbane. Rent was the
chief factor responsible for the rise.
• •
There will be no qhange in wage-rates
in Adelaide or Melbourne, as both
Federal and State basic wages are frozen
in those States. In Perth and Brisbane
the State Industrial Courts will defer-
mine whether the figures should affect
State awards.
• •
The Rural Committee of the N. S,
Wales Liberal party has asked Opposi-
tion Leader Morton to include in the
party’s platform for the next election a
four-point road-policy undertaking to
1. b’uild arterial roads wholly by contract
at a saving in time and money;
2. co-operate with local government in a
four-year plan of essential feeder-road
building;
3. ensure that road-work is carried out
according to latest design- and construc-
tion-methods ;
4. insist that the Federal Government
should return to N. S. Wales each year,
for road-work, a sum at least equal to
the amount collected from taxes on
road-tuels in thef State.
J. G. Beale, M.L.A. for South Coast,
chairman of the committee, says this
proposed road-programme is urgently
needed to reduce costs of transporting
primary products. His > committee’s prin-
ciple on road funds is that the maximum
should be spent on road-building an d
the minimum on administration.
AT POVERTY POINT


Latest on the equal-pay front is that
ie Cahills will bring it in gradually
nder a five-year plan. Whether this ful-
11s the Labor conference demand. for
qual-pay “without loopholes” remains
o be seen.
0 •
World Bank officials who have been
nvestigating the possibilities of the pro-
josed £3O-million Mt. Isa railway pro-
ect have visited Townsville, Mt. Isa,
Bowen and Collinsville and will leave
or America next week to present their
;eport.
s 0
For its own purposes, which included
getting rid of some unwanted aldermen
j*f its own party and ensuring the elec-
tion of favored sons, Labor abolished the
ward-system in Sydney City Council elec-
tions five years ago and substituted pro-
portional-representation. Now, fearing
they won’t be able to retain their majority
next time under p.-r., Labor aldermen are
to ask for a restoration of the wards.
Citizens’ Reform and Liberal alder-
men also favor wards, but the D.L.P.
wants to stick to p.-r. and one electorate,
and regards the move as an attempt to
eliminate it from the council. A sug-
gested counter is a threat to- oppose the
Cahill Government in key seats at the
Slate election.
0 0
Kangaroo Island (population 3500) has
asked for separate representation in the
South Australian Parliament. No talk
yet of a New State movement, but you
never know.
0 0
Rail- and tram-fares are going up in
Victoria; this has been known in the
Treasury back-rooms for months and
ivas an open secret at election-time. One-
class rail-travel would permit the rail-
Wa ys to level both classes, off at a more
remunerative rate, and tramway fares
would naturally rise to take advantage of
“?. e higher rate. In the year to June 30
victorian Railways lost just on £5 million
and the tramways £1 million —more than
accounting for Bolte’s overall deficit of
million.
0 0
Queensland Mines Minister Evans has
announced a £ 10-million hydroelectric-
Power scheme for the Barron River,
J.rth-west of Cairns. The new station
nl be below the present Barron Falls
aboo, will have a capacity of 60,000
' owatts and will deliver its first power
1963.
0 0
J 2* iefl y because of personal bitternesses,
bourne’s autumn carnival, Moornba
reputedly aboriginal for “Let’s Get
enri er anc * Have Fun” —has been
L . an S ere d by a split between the city
ciat' anc * City Develoment Asso-
at !u n ' more appropriate translation
Off e , rnomen t would be “Let’s Stand
Therrfr a FiBht ” -
ti Ve a* ,; U- .• was formed by representa-
city c e . n .‘ ans in business to push the
°uncil into progressive acts, includ-
ing Moornba. Now money has begun to
talk: the C.D.A. has been running the
show for an annual £4OOO, with the
council —annual contribution £50,000 —-
taking a back seat.
• •
It looks as if the Australian whaling-
industry is in for another successful
season, but instead of shouting. “Thar
she blows,” Minister for Primary
Industry McMahon has merely issued a
prim statement about assets being valued
at £2l million, the annual value of the
products exceeding £2 million, and the
provision of seasonal employment for a
considerable number of skilled and un-
skilled workers on the east and west
coasts and at Norfolk Island. Quotas
this year total 1960, of which Westralia
has been assigned 1200, Queensland 600,
N. S. Wales 120 and Norfolk 120. The
International Whaling Conference recently
agreed with Australia that greater
exploitation of humpback whales in the
Antarctic should not be permitted.
• •
The Associated Chambers of Manufac-
turers have again asked the Treasurer to
abolish or reduce payroll-tax. Quoting
a Tariff Board statement that every £1
of payroll-tax adds £2 to consumer-prices,
R. W. C. Anderson, director of the asso-
ciation, says in his “Canberra Tetter”
that on that basis the £5O million a year
which the Treasury receives becomes
£lOO million. He continues, “for various
reasons the abolition of the tax would
result in a revenue loss far less than the
£5O million. Some observers believe that
the net loss to revenue would be less than
£25 million.” Judging .by the hints
dropped by Menzies and Fadden, the
estimate isn’t likely to be put to the "test
this Budget.
• •
At 34, Lindsay Thompson becomes'the
youngest Minister in the Victorian
Cabinet. Although he replaces a country
member (Gordon McArthur, now presi-
dent of the Legislative Council), both
country and city members voted for his
promotion—largely because of his ener-
getic campaign to rustle-up country sup-
port for the' Libs, in the recent elec-
tions. Thompson has been M.L.C. for
Higinbotham, a city province, for only
three years. A former high-school
teacher, he’s a member of Melbourne
University Council ; one of his most
vocal worries since he entered Parlia-
ment has been the very high rate of
failure in Australian universities.
0 0
Old Father Thames may run aggrievedly
at the thought of parking-decks for cars
being built along both sides —for 1600 ft.
of Albert Embankment, on the south
side, and for 9500 ft. on the north side,
from near Vauxhall Bridge to Black-
friars Bridge. The estimated cost is £4
million, and the decks would accommo-
date about 10,000 cars. Perhaps Mel-
bourne’s Yarra will be subjected to
similar indignity. And what about
Sydney Harbor? • ✓
Victorian medicos have been out-
spoken on the, potency of alcohol in
causing road-accidents. A survey of
blood-alcohol testing has suggested that
drinking is a more significant factor in
accidents than official statistics disclose.
The doctors say that at least one-quarter,
of all car-drivers killed had a blood-
alcohol content of 0.1 per cent, or more
—and a good proportion of pedestrians
killed on the road had also been imbib-
ing. Interesting, but will any action
follow these disclosures?
• ©
“C.S.”: Melburnians woke-up last
week to read that Heidelberg Council
had granted Stanhill Pty., Ltd., permis-
sion to “develop” a building-estate in
what they had supposed was an inviol-
able area of the Green Belt in the lovely
Yarra Valley and an integral part of the
Master Plan of Melbourne’s develop-
ment. They were further angered next
day by the news from the —er —Master
Planners that it was never intended to
stop development in the area, but merely
to control it. This bland piece of bluff
about “intentions” left Melburnians
almost inarticulate, and in the hush the
Minister for Public Works asked the
Master Planners to write and explain all,
if possible.
« •
“Stromlo”: Speculation on a coming
Budget is a game almost as old as journal-
ism. Menzi&s was curt on the subject
twice recently. He told his broadcast
listeners that a newspaper had announced
a series of alleged Budget decisions in
positive terms, “as if the statement were
official.” On the same day another paper
had published an entirely different story,
written in equally positive terms. Then,
at a Canberra press-conference, the P.M.
warned his interviewers that there had
been no statement of any Budget decision,
and “all publications to the contrary are
purely imaginary.” The Budget decisions,
he said, would be announced on August
5, not by speculators in the meantime.
Most daily papers seem to have missed
these remarks.
• •
In a spate of multi-million-pound
promises N. S. Wales Cabinet last week
brought to the State’s coal-industry a
theoretical prosperity beyond its fondest
dreams. First instalment was a £5O-
- chemical plant for the northern
coalfields, probably at Cessnock. No
date given, but Cabinet has “unanimously
adopted a plan for a plant to extract
chemical by-products from coal.” The
plan has been sent to the Federal Cabinet
“for approval,” but “no reply has been
received.”
The rest of the millions —206 of ’em —•
are to be put into power-stations, if and
when received. Work will “probably”
begin on a £56-million power-station at
Lake Macquarie “early in the new year”
and “at least three new power-stations
costing more than £5O million each” are
planned for the next 15 years. Likely
sites, says Local Government Minister
Renshaw, are Wallis Creek, Ravensbrook
and Gunnedah. Or, for that matter, any
other spot that seems likely.


PERSONAL ITEMS
New Bishop of Gippsland (Vic.) is
the Rev. Canon David Garnsey, one of
Australia’s most distinguished scholars.
Headmaster of Canberra Grammar
School since 1948, he was a Sydney Uni-
versity Arts graduate and was 1931
Rhodes Scholar. He succeeds the Right
Rev. E. J. Davidson* who died in April.
• •
When excavating beyond the present
bistro in the Rhinecastle Cellars, Pitt
Street, Sydney, to make his new “Tank
Room” (in the locality of the old Tank
Stream) John Keith (Johnny) Walker
came upon some old stone walls. Ex-
CELLAR
amination showed them to be built of
convict-hewn sandstone, taken from the
quarry below old Government House.
Possibly part of an old cottage that
might be older than the present building
(which has been a wine-cellar since its
inception in 1853), this golden sandstone
is being retained as the wall of the new
room which will shortly be opened.
Walker (sketch herewith) is cellar-
master of his Rhinecastle cellars, presi-
dent of the Society of Gourmets, and a
life-member of the Wine and Food
Society. He has dealt in wine and food
all his working-life, so should know
something about it. He travels once a
year across Australia, starting the trip
from Perth and tasting and smelling wines
and looking for good ones. Finds time
to cook something, too, he says, when he
calls at some of the wineries on his way.
He holds strong views on Australian
wines ; says they should not be com-
pared with European vintages, being
entirely different and so in a class of
their own. As regards food, he says the
bistro really started 20 years ago, but
then they were giving away food —not
selling it; that only started last year.
As Sydneysiders know, the Hermitage
Restaurant and other good things cooked-
up by Rhinecastle in the past have helped
eating and drinking in Sydney as a whole.
• •
The Northern Territory accounts for
only about 30,000 out of Australia’s 150-
million sheep, but Alice Springs was the
venue of- this year’s annual meeting of
the Australian Woolgrowers’ Council.
Chairman was W. Weatherly, of
Woolongon, Mortlake (Vic.), with T. M.
Scott, of Burroway, Narromine (N.S.W.),
as vice-chairman.
• •
Looking trimly like a naval officer out
of uniform (he was one in the last war,
with the R.N. in the English Channel
and North Sea, was captured by the
Germans in France in 1942 and spent
the rest oj: the war p.-0.-w), C. Black
has been M.L.A. for Neutral Bay (on
the Harbor) since 1945. Born in Sydney
45 years ago, he studied law at the
Univers.ty and was called to the Bar in
1939. Already with a lot of interests
—lists them as riding, gardening and
reading—he has just become chairman
of the Council of Commonwealth
Societies in N.S.W. Is also president of
the State’s branch of the Royal Common-
wealth Society.
• •
Sir Victor Hurley (passed on in Mel-
bourne at 70) was one of the most
distinguished surgeons in Australia.
Although he became nationally known
as Director-General of Medical Services
for the R.A.A.F. from 1940 to 1945
he also served in World War I—and1 —and had
been Federal president of the B.M.A.
and the Royal Australian College of
Surgeons, there was no doubt that his
first devotion was the Royal Melbourne
Hospital. He became a medical officer
at the hospital in 1910, registrar in 1911,
medical superintendent (at 24) in 1912, a
medical staff member until 1947, presi-
dent from 1947 to 1956, and was still a
consulting surgeon at the end. He was
given an Air Force funeral, with full
military honors.
• •
“Pelga”: As well as the Rev. C. A.
Osborne —the only former major-general
in Holy Orders in Australia (B. 18/6/’5B)
—another Indian Army officer to be
ordained here was Colonel C. A. Grey,
also of the Sikh Regt. (47th Batt.). He
served in the N.-W. Frontier fighting (at
the age of 17), in France and in Burma
before retiring in 1947 and coming to
Australia. He was ordained in Melbourne
in 1951. After four years as honorary
assistant curate in Croydon (Vic.), he
became rector and canon-residefitiar-y of
Christ Church Cathedral, St. Arnaud, but
after two years of ministry he died sud-
denly, aged 55.
• •
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Australia’s Papua
and New Guinea liaison-officer to the
Netherlands New Guinea Administra-
tion, 36-year-old Harry William West has
been acting district-commissioner for
the Southern Highlands area since last
December. His opposite-number, the
Dutch liaison-officer to the Australian
Administration, is to be Raphael den
Haan, of the Dutch Department of In-
ternal Affairs, who graduated from
Utrecht in 1942, during the German
occupation. He was deported to Ger-
many for forced-labor, but escaped in
1944 and joined the Free French, and
in 1946 was sent to Netherlands New
Guinea. He’s a knight in the Order of
Orange Nassau.
• •
John Culshaw Greenhalgh, principal of
Brisbane Teachers’ College, was bom af
Croydon (N.Q.) and educated at State
schools, at Brisbane Grammar and at the
University of Queensland, where he
gained the triple degrees of 8.A., B.Ed.,
and Ph.D. After some primary-school
teaching he became, in 1935, a lecturer
at the Teachers’ College until appoint-
ment in 1953 as Regional Director of
the South-western Educational Region,
with headquarters at Roma. He returned
to the Teachers’ College as principal in
1954, the first former student to hold
that position. Believing that the vitality
COLLEGE


of modern youth offers the teacher a
challenge that can be met only by
adoption in the classroom of modern
teaching-methods, he’s convinced that
training-procedures for future teachers
need overhaul. President of the Queens-
land Institute for Educational Research,
he spends any spare time gardening and
motoring.
* •
“Pandanus”: Pastor Norman Ferris,
of Mona Mona Mission Station, killed
in a collision at Townsville (Q.), spent
his youth at Norfolk Island and Lord
Howe (where his father was in charge
of the S.D.A. Mission) and as a medical
missionary. - Norman himself won an
0.8. E. for his, administrative work at
Pitcairn and many other Pacific islands.
He also won U.S. recognition and the
personal recommendation of General
MacArthur for his navigational work in
the Solomons during World War 11. He
was 55.
• •
Calling it a day, N.Z.’s Chief of Air
Staff, Air-Vice-Marshal C. E. Kay.
Linking-up with the R.A.F. in 1926, he
spent a while getting gliding-experience
in Germany at a flying-school in the
mountains near Frankfurt, where some
of Goring’s lads were fellow-pupils.* In
1930 Kay flew a Desoutter from England
to Australia with Flying-Officer J. D.
Piper ; then, with Squadron-Leader J. D.
Hewett, he made the hop to Melbourne
in the centenary air-race. Back in his
native land, he joined the R.N.Z.A.F. in
1935, and in War II was early into the
fray. Post-war he filled big jobs, and
Australia, the U.S.A. and Britain saw
him as N.Z.’s rep. at important gather-
ings. One of his latest flights was a run
over the South Pole. -
• •
Home from the U.S. with an Ameri-
can wife, Westralian geologist Donald
Reid, a B.Sc. of the Westralian Uni-
versity, has spqnt the past 12 months
doing post-graduate work in the Colo-
rado School of Mines. He went there
°n one of the Rotary Fellowships
awarded last year, and met his wife, a
“A. of the Nebraska State Teachers’
College, in Denver, where she was a
geologic draftswoman. His next move
vv dl be to the Kimberleys, to do survey
work for a mining company 100 miles
north-east of Derby.
• •
Q.P. Side”: Veteran mining - company
secretary Norman Cowey, being an old soldier,
"ays said: “1 want to die with my boots
a. He did. Having risen from the ranks
a major in the British Army, campaigned
i mdia, Afghanistan and through the
hJ aU i?i ‘ n Prance in War 1, having
.J* blown out of old windmills, houses and
on S ,i5 S s P° tle d for his artillery, he died
y. 3. 1 e Pavement ,in York Street, Sydney,
way home from his office in
n^ ie Place after his usual day’s work,
bnvin had 3 ly sense °f humor. A Sydney
and ty coon with whom he once associated
i n „ w "° ' vas more than sharp in business deal-
the ’ na USed to w histle when he came along
Onp a S 38 l a^ler tr ‘ u mphing in a business deal.
C OWev ay , tried to turn the tables on
alonp was Borman Cowey who came
bcoon’s chaori^ aBe -r^ hislling ’ much - 1° the
him b Cf >agnn. The tycoon never forgave
Tradition has been observed in the
election to the Presidency of the Vic-
torian Legislative Council of Gordon
Stewart McArthur, a learned counsel like
his predecessors in office, Sir Frank
Clarke and Sir Clifden Eager. Now 62,
he. was a comparative youngster when
he made his first appearance in the Coun-
cil as the member for Western in 1931 —
almost like a man from another planet
among the members of those days. He
had spent much of his time abroad ; was
wounded in France in 1918 ; graduated
in mechanical science at Cambridge ; and
COUNCIL
was called to the Bar at both the Inner
Temple and in Victoria in the one year.
Despite all these interesting pursuits,
however, he is chiefly a grazier ; manag-
ing the extensive family interests near
Camperdown in the Western District,
property which has been owned by the
McArthurs for more than a -century.
But perhaps most Victorians know him
best as the man who bred Chicquita, one
of the finest mares to race in Australia.
He iikes to breed a few horses as a side-
line, but so far has come up with only
one Chicquita.
Until his appointment he was Minister
for Forests and State Development, and
will lose £550 a year by becoming Presi-
dent. The post carries £3250 a year
compared with a Ministerial £3BOO ; but
Ministers aren't presidents of (usually)
tranquil clubs.
• •
“Uramao”: The appointment of S. T.
Barnett as Police Controller in N.Z.
(never popular with the Force because
of his civilian status and his idea that
ability rather than seniority should deter-
mine promotion) has been terminated,
but he will continue to perform valued
service as Secretary of Justice, the other
job he held in connection with being
boss of the cops. The present Govern-
ment agrees that a uniformed policeman
should be in control, and has picked
Superintendent Willis Spencer Brown,
who, now 56, has figured in a number
of sensational cases in the course of a
notable career. Among other assign-
ments, he was in charge of the squad
hunting down Stanley Graham after the
shooting of police and civilians on the
West Coast in 1941, and he had charge
of the police party which went to quell
unrest at the Cook Islands in 1948-49.
• •
Listed among Army staff-changes,
Colonel M. R. Buring (nephew of wine-
man Leo Buring) hailed originally from
Tasmania, and graduated from Dun-
troon in 1932. He served with artillery
units, and later was with the Australian
Military Mission in Washington ; also
did a secondment to the Department of
Supply, headed the Australian delegation
to a- British Commonwealth military
conference in Canada (1956), and was
then appointed Colonel, General Staff,
at H.Q., Eastern Command. He now
becomes Commander, R.A.A.S.C., H.Q.,
Eastern Command and has just been
appointed A.D.C. to the Governor-
General.
His successor is Colonel M. Austin, an
infantryman who won the D.S.O. for
his leadership on Hill 355 when com-
manding 1 R.A.R. in Korea. After-
wards he was A.A. and Q.M.G. at H.Q.,
Western Command, Perth. He’s a
Queenslander and has just come from
the Commandant’s job at Canungra.
• •
“Maitri”: Writing here a month or two
ago of Ernest Bryce 1 wrongly stated that
he was born in Hamburg ; 1 have since
learnt that he was born in Melbourne.
Concerning the forest surrounding his
old North Shore (Sydney) home, it's
good to know that this most public-
spirited of Australians, before he left on
his last journey to Britain, made a gift
of it to Kuring-gai Council as a nature-
reserve. Thirty years ago there were
many dense groves of trees in the district;
the Bryce property is one of the last to
remain. If the council leaves it as it is
it will be a reminder of when the district
was remarkable.for it's magnificent timber.
e •
Into the Silence:
At Maitland (N.S.W.), at 76, W. A. Howarth,
formerly Liberal M.L.A. for Maitland for 26
years, Opposition Whip for five years and
deputy-leader of the Opposition, 1946-54.
In Sydney, at 81, Colonel S. H. Hancox.
Born at Maitland (N.S.W.), he worked as elec-
trical engineer with N.S.W. Railways and
Tramways, then went to the General Electrical
Co. in the U.S.A., returning to become chief
electrical engineer with Queensland Railways.
In the A.I.F. on Gallipoli and in France, he
won the D.S.O. and was “mentioned” three
times. Subsequently he became g.-m. of
Hobart Tramways and chairman of the board
of Gellibrand House (the old-soldiers’ home
in Hobart). His son, Lieut. S. F. Hancox, went
down in H.M.A.S. Perth.
In Brisbane, at 84, the Rev. Father J. E.
Healey, parish priest of Bardon (Q.) for 20
years, and author of two books on aborigines.


ABORIGINALITIES
“But Leila said , ‘Be here rain , hail or shine.' ”
TTS7hen Governor-General Gloucester
and his trim little Duchess stayed at
Elsey station it was reasonably considered
that clothing the homestead female helps
would harmonise better with vice-regal
decor. Dusky Eves did not enthusiasti-
cally assume the sack-look incorporated
in the provided white-cotton hubbards,
and tended to doff or don their uniforms
of servitude on the homestead doorsteps,
thus barely keeping within the framework
of the planned design. They were ecstatic
about the amphibious antics of the
“ducks” that were included in the visitors’
transport, and were promised that if they
would suffer the trammels of their chicless
chemises only until the Royal visit was
over they would all get a ride in the
luggage-“duck.” On departure-day, with
the vice-regal party already installed in
their cars, the Marys reckoned the visit
was technically over and, whooping with
delight and shedding chemises, they
flowed as one ebon wave past the
interested visitors to enjoy their “duck”
ride, properly unattired. —“Sevenelms.”
* * * *
“P.M.G.”: I have seen telephones
installed in strange places, and generally
there was a reason ; the oddest was one
on a sheep-property not a hundred miles
from Cobar (N.S.W.). The owner of the
broad acres had died, and his widow
applied to have the phone shifted from
where it was and installed in the house.
Inspection revealed that the phone was
fitted to a stump, covered by a rough
shelter, but was several hundred yards
down the paddock. The reason given was
that the “dear departed’’ refused to allow
the gadget to be placed in the house
because his bitter-half would waste too
much time gossiping. The apparatus was
duly transplanted.
* * * *
“Lilydale”: The upper hierarchy of
stoical cats should include the tortoise-
shell Tom that for years strutted round
Tarrant Motors (Melbourne) showroom.
He landed from the U.S. in 1915 with
two T-model Fords completely encased.
En voyage he had some protective grease
to lick and the good' fortune to be in
one of six cases lashed down on No. 4
well-deck, where the tarps. could have
leaked him some rain. It would be nice
to relate that he gratified his liberators
by being a champion ratter, but in truth
his outstanding activities lay in the
amatory arenas off Little Collins Street.
He was, of course, named Henry.
* * *
“Myall”: Winton, in Queensland’s
Central West, isn’t outsize—it runs ta
3000 inhabitants —but it does things on
the grand scale when it comes to rodeos.
The Queensland Rough-riding Cham-
pionships were held there in 1955, and
the Australian Championships last year.
Next month it’s to be the venue of the
three-day World’s Rough-riding Cham-
pionships, with prize-money totalling
£3OOO. The open buckjump will carry
a prize of £lOOO, and riders from the
U.S., Canada, South Africa and New
Zealand will compete. Winton was one
of the first country towns to conduct
rodeos, and visitors come from all over
the Commonwealth.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: A press-report has
it that Antarctic seas contain “an abun-
dant and powerful antibiotic which appa-
rently protects birds, fish and mammals
of the south from all bacterial diseases.
This theory is based on the fact that
attempts to take seals and penguins to
the U.S. have almost always failed, and
the suggestion has been mooted that a
human baby born south of the Antarctic
Circle couldn’t be brought back to
civilisation alive. It sounds all bunk to
me. The seas fringing both polar-circles
are probably the richest areas of the
A SONG OF RUM
God made the sugarcane grow where it’s
hot
And the total abstainer to grow where it’s
not.
Let the sin-bosun warn of perdition to
''come
Well drink it and chance it, so bring out >
the rum.
You cap keep all your beer and whisky
and gin
It wants to escape as soon as it’s in —
For the man with a chill on his lungs or
liver
Needs rum like they make on the Burnett
River.
It cleanses the bowels and kidneys and
sinuses,
It changes to plus-signs all of your
minuses;
It squeezes your lungs and scorches your
throttle
There’s a fiend out of Hell corked in
every bottle\
These are heroes who drink it, heroes
indeed
Of the bushranging old-time hairynecked
breed.
They shave with their axes, they dress in
old rags
They feed on old boots, they sleep on
old bags.
Dull care flies away when their voices
resound
And the grass shrivels up when they spit
on the ground.
When they finally die and are sunk in
the clay
Their bodies are pickled and never de-
, cay —
On the morning of Judgment when the
skies are rolled back,
They’ll stroll from their graves up the
long golden track
And their voices will echo throughout
Kingdom Come
As they toast the archangels in over proof
rum.
Chorus (optional)
Bundaberg Rum, Overproof Rum,
Will tan your insides like the sap of the
gum —
Let the blue-ribbon thump on his old
sullen drum
Or his waterlogged belly, we’ll stick to
our rum.
QUEENSLAND.
W. SCOTT.


RED SAILS IN THE SUNSET


World, land or sea, in food-values during
their respective springs, particularly as
they emerge from the annual deep-freeze.
Then the terrific surge of planktonic life
touches-off a kindred surge in the higher
forms of life which feed directly or in-
directly on it, and all life flourishes.
This violent revival from the annual
period of suspended animation may be
analogous to the bud-burst in trees that
have experienced complete freezing for a
short period in winter —far more spec-
tacular than occurs in trees that have
been only partly frozen —and it’s prob-
ably the lure that draws the polar birds
and animals back to their nesting-grounds
after wintering in the tropics> It's what
gives the young sea-birds the strength
that carries them on flights of thousands
of miles when a few months old, and the
calf-whales the stamina to keep up with
“Leak in Number One hold, sir!"
the adults on the northward migration
during winter. There may be an anti-
biotic somewhere in the picture, but how'“
would it arise in a region notoriously
free from bacteria? As for a return to
civilisation, the whales and the sea-birds
come north to the tropics without suc-
cumbing to bacterial diseases.
* * * *
/~*ommotion amongst the blue wrens
made me look for the cause. Found
three tiny nestlings sunning themselves on
a heap of rose-prunings nearby. On see-
ing me every wren in the garden—includ-
ing three full-plumaged males —got to
work to get those babies back to their
nest. Coaxed with morsels of food, while
uncles and. aunts kept guard, those babes
were safely out of sight within a minute.
—“Two Jays.”
* * . * .«
“Flight”: In the same marvel-class as
the delayed birth of a kangaroo joey is
the laying of eggs by the scrub-hen
(Megapodius reinwardt). Plentiful in the
coastal area of N.Q. and on the' islands,
these birds are a shade smaller than the
mallee-fowl (they’re about as big as a
brown Leghorn), but they make a
much larger mound for a nest thanr
the mallee-fowl is content with. I’ve
an idea it’s a communal effort. Every
year, towards the end of winter, the old
mounds are topdressed with fresh
■scrapings of leaves and other rubbish.
The hens indulge their maniacal yells of
laughter with greater vigor. But —and I
noted this repeatedly—if the season is
dry no eggs are laid. If things are right,
with the ground moist to induce warmth
by rotting vegetation, they watch the
calendar and get busy in the first week
of October. If the ground isn’t then
moist no eggs are laid until after the first
rain following October 1. I think, though
I can’t prove it, the eggs are there wait-
ing to be laid ; it needs the rain to im-
pinge the trigger to set the cycle rolling.
new home, at a cost of more than £4OOO.
Said to be the largest herd ever to cross
the continent by rail.
• * * *
“Wu A week or two back the
oldest-known local-anassthetic was applied
with success here in North Queensland
to save a life when an Italian canecutter
was bitten on the-leg by a death-adder,
His mate, a compatriot, killed the snake
and prepared to treat the bite, but the
victim declined treatment, saying he did
not believe the small snake to be veno-
mous. Whereupon his mate k.o.’d him
with a right to the jaw, applied ligatures
from a torn shirt and scarified the wound
with a cane-knife. The doc. later ack-
nowledged that the first-aid had saved
the cutter’s life.
• * * •
“Jaygee”: Under a shrub in the garden
I found a dead water-rat, full-grown
and unscathed. The house-cat might
have killed it, though that’s doubtful, as
water-rats have formidable teeth. Here
in northern Victoria these rats have de-
veloped a disease with symptoms of
stupidity and sore eyes. Could it be
that myxomatosis is going through the
rodent world?
* * * ' *
“Bass”: About the middle of June a
giant petrel was found exhausted on a
Victorian beach, with a leg-band that had
been put on it at the Falkland islands,
8000 miles away. , A fortnight later
another bird, banded at the same place,
was taken from the ocean near Fre-
mantle, 6000 miles from its nesting-place,
and as I write it’s recovering from the
buffeting that forced it down close to
land. My bet is that when this second
bird is released it will continue east-
wards and circle the globe, to return to
the Falklands for the next mating-season
iri the spring. If it couldn't fight the
westerlies in the Indian Ocean it wouldnt
attempt the long flight back against them
right across the southern seas. And
the bird found at Melbourne was about
halfway home, anyway
* * * *
“Eureka”: Attached to a souvenir I
bought at Jeoolan Caves (N.S.W.) was
a card which carried this piece of infor-
mation about the kangaroo: “The kanga-
roo, if held by the tail, is powerless and
can be made to go anywhere at will-
I must try it out next time I meet a oft.
boomer. , -
* * * *
“Macquarie”: As I understand ft
whether a chap who sells glut beans from
his ute is committing an illegal act i
decided "by just one point: Did he gro
them himself or buy them for resale.
The law, as explained to me by a symp
thetic Johnop during the tough ’th ,rt ‘ e ’
permits the man who grows or ma .
the goods to sell them to the P uD
“W.P.T.”: One of the strangest bush
characters I ever met was a bearded
southern Monaro (N.S.W.) man known
as “The Doctor,” a pseudonym he got
because of his habit of carrying a stetho-
scope _everywhere he went. When out
shooting he would put it to the ground
and listen, and he maintained he could
hear wallabies and kangaroos thumping
the ground half-a-mile away. He also
used it in place of the dowser’s forked
stick to locate underground water.
Reckoned he could “hear” the water. He
had some success with it, too.
* * * *
Manamoi”: The Silverton Tramway
Company was lately booked to handle a
consignment very different from its jusual
loads of Broken Hill ore-concentrates —
240 Hereford cattle, of the famous OBX
brand, on their way to W.A. The herd
(223 cows and 17 bulls) was bought by
a Boyup Brook (W.A.) grazier to replace
stock lost in a bushfire last January.
Vendors were the Rangers Valley Stud’
near Deepwater, in northern N.S.W. The
cattle will be sent by rail, via Broken
Hiil and Port Pirie, all the way to their


without first obtaining a licence ; but if
he is retailing the wares he is a dealer,
and needs a dealer’s licence. These days,
perhaps, he could be charged if he caused
any traffic-obstruction, but back in those
times there were few traffic-problems—
those motorists who could afford to run
cars were scared to be seen in them for
fear they were liable under Jack Lang’s
newly-passed “Hound-’em-off-the-road-
and-save-the-railways” Act.
* * * *
“Cocky”: Although made nearly a
quarter of a century ago, the record tally
iji cotton picked in a - day still stands.
In 12 hours, on March 29, 1935, on Walz
“If you come any closer I'll sneeze on you—and I've got the ’FLU!”
and Lawson’s farm in the Biloela (Q.)
district, “Curly” Balchin plucked 4081 b.
°f the white fluff. Admittedly the crop
w as a good one, mostly Cliett and Lone
Star varieties. On the previous two days,
Curly had picked 3301 b. and 3851 b. re-
spectively, so the tally was no fluke. The
average picker would be flat-out to yank
wore than 2001 b. off the bushes between
8o and whoa.
BACKACHES BY THE BAGFUL
Qne thing mechanised-farming so far
hasn’t touched: as distinct from
Vegetables for the canning industry, all
resh vegetables for the retail trade still
J ave to be harvested by hand, and
harvest-time in any kind of crop is a
S( j e ne of bent backs and busy fingers. In
p ‘ ain language— hard yakker.
That goes for all 25 to 30 different
pieties of vegetables on display more-
Mess regularly in any well-stocked
S re engrocery. Even potatoes, which are
Wide, y mechanically dug, have still
liana P ' c^ ed U P> graded and bagged by
m ’ w hile the latest machine on the
rxet potato-harvester, which com-
bines the three operations—needs a crew
of four or five men to work it.
The magnitude of the manual effort
involved is not generally realised. The
nature of the work, the weather hazards,
and the seasonal urgencies that have to
be faced in the hand-gathering of fresh
veges for about 10,000,000 people all
the year round, are known only to those
in the industry. Just one day’s supply for
Australia would run into millions of
separate items,'each won from the soil
by somebody’s pair of hands!
From experience of it I’d say the job,
collectively speaking, is easily the nation’s
biggest backache. And probably Austra-
lian labor’s best-earned money.
For instance, my last week’s /tally
picking-up, grading and bagging in a
goodish (about 8 tons to the acre) crop
was 132 bags, or just on 9 tons. At
three-bob a bag, l earned £l9 16s.
In earning it I had to handle, indi-
vidually and selectively, somewhere
about 60,000 spuds (including chats) —
enough spuds to keep about 3000
families-of-four going for a full week.
My tally, I might say, wouldn’t get
much of a rating locally —Robertson
(N.S.W.), one of the Meccas of the
seasonal worker. I’m only a comparative
newchum at the game, besides getting
up in years. A more experienced (and
younger) worker, in a comparable crop,
wouldn’t have any difficulty topping his
300 and more bags a week. In good
crops, tallies of 60 to 70 bags a day are
common enough.
They earn their dough, these top-tally
men. Their take —£10 or more a day-
sounds a lot for a rural toiler, but not
when you consider that 70 well-filled
bags is a good 4y tons, which, taken spud
by spud, represents a mighty lot of spud-
juggling. ,
But for a real backache-while-you-
work job, pea-picking would take some
beating. The pea-picker,' in properly
handling the vines, has no choice but to
keep “bent to the task” all day long.
Unless, as some pickers do (particularly
women), they stick to kneeling. Either
style—and even the semi-sitting posture
some workers adopt—it’s the backbone
that makes its presence most felt.
Backaches thrown in, the skilled
picker, in good peas, can turn in his
20 and more bushels a day, though 10
to 15 would be nearer the average good
What amazes is that, pick by pick,, the
20-bushel-a-day man’s tally would be
around 56,000 pods. Or, for an eight-
hour day, more than 100 pods a minute,
steady going! (Peas, all varieties and
grades, show a mean average of about
100 pods to the lb. A bushel is 281 b.)
Nobody would begrudge a worker of
this calibre his £6 to £l2 a day, deter-
mined in quarter-ratio to the price the
grower gets for the peas.
Beans, cabbage, swedes and all the
rest of the vegetable family provide
variable patterns of the same class of
good old-fashioned toil of the fields.
But still, may it never change ; for it
keeps alive the picturesqueness and
human qualities so traditional to that
simple word —harvest.
FRANK SNOW.
BELLBIRD
Bird of the bush and chimer of the hills,
I’ve stood in the passing light whose pale-
ness fills
With golden bars the shadowy ironbark;
And from the closing distance where the
dark
Is blurred and still, I heard a deep clear
bell.
I felt as though the notes of elf land fell
Upon the drowsy ear of night, and I a tree
Transformed into that silent company.
VICTORIA.
J. M. DUNN.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN A UST RALI AN INST 11 UI JON
Extablixh i-d 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. 1 EWIS fChairmau) F. W. HARFORD tViee Chairman!
STRL 1 AN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M DOUGLaSS. MALCOLM C. I)AVI8.
A. L MAITLAND, Managing Director. N E JIANtuN. Aiaai^er"
liranclies in all States Asen.ies in all Country Centres
WOOL AND THE RESERVE PRICE
Although the average price
of wool for the whole of
the 1957-58 season was 62.27c1.,
compared with 79.66 d. in the
preceding year, during the
month of June, the closing
month of the season, the
average for greasy was only
46.6 d., against 69.27 d. for the
month of June, 1957.
Sales during June would
include many poorer types of
wool, and the 46.6 d. may not
be fully representative of an
average price. When sales
closed at the end of June com-
parative prices were oniy
slightly higher than they w-ere
at the lowest point reached by
the wool-market during May
this year.
At the end of the past
.season’s sales there were
108,941 bales in store, com-
pared with a carryover of
86,340 bales at June 30, 1957.
Though there is a slight in-
crease in the carryover, it
represents only about 24 p.c.
of the season’s clip, and is
really very light.
Comparative figures for the
past 12 selling-seasons are
given in this table, with the
inclusion of 1943-44 war-time
“controlled” figures as well:
Sydney decided to submit a
pian to the federation.
The decision was contrary to
the 1 opinion of the association’s
president, G. D. Barwick, who
said that talk about a reserve
price was years too late. “The
time to implement such a plan
was when the price of wool was
high, in the early 1950'5,” he
maintained, adding that the
present system of wool-auctions
was satisfactory arid should
only be replaced if a better
substitute could be found.
Other speakers said it should
be possible to maintain the
auction system and at the same
time have a reserve-price plan.
The 1951 Proposal
In 1951 a scheme was
designed to continue reserve-
price operations oh the
termination of the Joint
Organisation plan. It was
prepared by the Governments
of Australia, New Zealand,
South Africa and the United
Kingdom in May, 1951, and it
provided for the establishment
of an organisation to recom-
mend reserve prices, to buy
wool at these prices when
commercial buyers were not
ready to do so, and to arrange
Bales: Average
First-hand price
receives Total amount per ib.
into store. Sold. realised. greasy.
1943 /44 .. 3 .G 42,286 3.604 639 £74,131.852 15.74 d.
1946/47 .. .. 2.974,077 2.944430 £92.335.940 24.49 d.
1947/48 .. .. 3.009 813 3.075.583 £155.547.897 39.50 d.
1943/49 .. .. 3.289.548 3.241.616 £194.589.170 48.07 d.
1949/50 .. .. 3,515.787 3.593.756 £286.628.911 67.75 d.
1950/51 .. .. 3.520,313 3 547.195 £636.330.574 144.19 d.
1951 /52 .. .. 3.358.921 , 3.409.312 £307.787.401 72 42d
1952/53 .. .. 3.851.268 3.888.753 £404.776.387. 81 80d.
1953/54 .. .. 3.804.278 3.846,786 £390.714.585 81 50d
1954/55 .. .. 3.926,305 3,955.476 £352.691.825 70 88d
1955/56 .. .. 4 255.541 4.295.673 £333.853,581 61 46d!
1956/57 .. .. 4.867.300 4.886.561 £482 879.860 79 66d
1957/58 .. .. 4,352.513 4,374.694 £336,770,554 6227d'
Following a decision by the
Wool and Meat Producers’
Federation on June 24 to ask
State organisations to submit
ideas for a wool reserve-price
plan, on July 15 the Wheat and
Woolgrowers’ Association in
the re-offering of wools so
bought.
The necessary funds to
operate the plan were to be
provided by the participating
countries, with a Government
guarantee if the initial capital
was all absorbed in buying
wool at the reserve price.
The plan was to operate for
five years from 1951-52, initial
funds to be provided by the
woolgrowing industry in the
form of a levy of 74 p.c. on
the sales of wool in the 1950-
51 season which (in Australia),
brought in the record cheque
of £636 million, at an average
of 144 d. From this levy about
£45 million was collected.
The completed plan was
endorsed by the Common-
wealth Government, but
rejected by woolgrowers at a
referendum in August, 1951.
Although New Zealand and
South Africa favored the plan,
without Australian co-opera-
tion it could not function.
The £45 million collected
from Australian woolgrowers
was later returned to them.
Obviously it would now
require a fund of these dimen-
sions, or bigger, to exercise any
influence on the wool-market
through a “floor price.”
The collection of the 74 p.c.
tax was resented by the
majority of growers during the
wool boom of 195 Q.-51, and
the fact that wool prices
collapsed in the following year
did not seem to make them' any
more favorably inclined to
controlled marketing of wool.
Wool in 1951-52 averaged
compared with 62d. last
season, and with production-
costs now much higher, the
pinch is infinitely more severe.
But it is very doubtful whether
woolgrowers as a body would
favor the introduction of a
reserve price even in present
circumstances. It has tradi-
tionally been an industry that
has disliked any form of inter-
ference or “control.”
„ . _ ......
Surplus Down Slightly
A lthough it was a year of
sudden and disconcerting
economic changes, Federal
Budget estimates, overall, were
only slightly out.
The actual surplus for the
year was £104.4 million, com-
pared with the Budget estimate
of £119.4 million.
Income-tax receipts were
£24.6 million below estimates
at £650.4 million. Customs
revenue and payroll-tax were
slightly under estimates; bur
excise, sales-tax and “miscel-
laneous revenue” were up.
In all, Revenue was do" 11
£10.3 million on estimates, anJ
was £4.7 million greatet
than allowed for. f
But- the ultimate surplus ot
£104.4 million was still a handy
amount to have in hand during
a time like the present.
It was carried to Loan Co
solidation and Investing


r
ft
4.4
-no
1
£4
m
/
“1 always pay by cheque”
“My husband’s a traveller and he’s often away for
three or four weeks at a time. To make things easier
for me, we opened a joint cheque account so that
wherever he is, I have no worries about household
accounts, school fees, and things like that. And when
we go through our accounts together it’s so much
easier to know where the money’s gone, for we
have a record of it in our cheque butts.
“We bank with the ‘Wales’, of course they’re
old friends and the country branch managers keep
my husband up-to-the-minute on local business
conditions.’’
The safe, simple, and efficient way of handling
money is to pay by cheque.
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Oldest and Largest Trading Bank in Australia
INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5646C
Reserve, and has been partly
used during the past year to
help-out the States in their
borrowing programmes.
Revising the figures given in
last week’s issue of The
Bulletin, total Federal Budget
surpluses over the past eight
years have been £523 million,
and Federal outlay on capital
works and services in the same
time has been £769 million.
The revised figure for Budget
surpluses and capital-outlay out
of revenue in aggregate is £1292
million.
Commonwealth Cash Posi-
tion
Cir Arthur Fadden has
explainedl that the £104.4
million Budget surplus had been
paid into the Loans Consolida-
tion and Investment Reserve to
help in the redemption of
debt and in enabling the Com-
monwealth to meet its commit-
ments outside Consolidated
Revenue, including the Loan
Council Programme for 1957-
58.,
Outside Consolidated
Revenue, Fadden said that cash
recewed from public loans was
£101.3 milion. State “domestic
raisings”, amounted to £3.1
million, and £10.9 million had
been raised on the New York
market, making a total of
£115.3 million.
To finance the States’ works
and Rousing programme of
£2OO million and £8.7 spent on
war-service land-settlement, the
Commonwealth had to find
£93.4 million. An amount of
£2 million came from Com-
monwealth balances and £91.4
million from a “special loan.”
This “loan” was filled, as to
£9.5 million, from the National
Debt Sinking Fund (based on
an International Bank loan of
£9.8 million}, and, as to £81.9
million, from the Loan Con-
solidation and Investment
Reserve (Budget surpluses).
Redemptions of Common-
wealth loans during the year
called for £59 million, including
£5 million paid-off in London.
A further £4 million was
Required for war-savings certi-
ficates. All these redemptions
fiad been met from the National
Debt Sinking Fund.
At June 30 this year
treasury - bills outstanding
totalled £l4O million, com-
pared with £l5O million a year
earlier.
in Weaker Market
Hill Proprietary
, shares a record
Price of 475. 9d. last week
a slackening in the
market that had begun in the
preceding week. After the
situation in the Middle East
became tense most shares
dipped more steeply, and
B.H.P. came back to 465. 6d.
A record profit for the year
to May 31 has been disclosed
by the 8.H.P., but consolidated
figures have not yet been issued.
A leading firm of Sydney
sharebrokers has issued a
survey of 112 Australian invest-
ment stocks, analysing the
growth between 1937 and
1958, or a shorter period in the
case of more recent listings.
The survey shows, among
other things, that the person
who bought 100 B.H.P. shares
in 1937 and took up all issues
since, including bonus-issues,
would in February this year be
receiving a return of no more
than £6 16s. per cent, on his
total investment of £l2lB.
But he would have shown a
capital-increment of £966 on
February market-values. That
increment has since increased
to over £llOO.
Last week, at 465. 6d.,
B.H.P. showed a yield to
present purchasers of £3 1 Is. 9d.
per cent. Jt is acceptance of
this low yield by present in-
vestors that has provided old
holders with much of their
market-increment.
Television Corporation
■COR the first time since tele-
casting began, the 10s.
shares in Television Corpora-
tion, Ltd., Sydney, have gone
above par. There has been
active trading in them lately at
around 11s. 9d.
The co. conducts Station
TCN, Channel 9, in Sydney. It
is one of two commercial TV-
transmitting stations in N.S.W.
(the other is Station ATN,
Channel 7); and there is, of
course, a national station.
Investors may soon be invited
to participate in TV share-issues
in Brisbane, Adelaide and
Perth. If only one commercial
station is permitted in these
cities to begin with, then they
should turn out to be a good
investment m a reasonable
time.
But if two commercial
stations are allowed to operate,
then the shares now offering on
the open market in Television
Corporation at around 12s.
would seem a better bet. Syd-
ney offers much more scope
for two commercial stations
than does Brisbane, Adelaide
or Perth, "'and TV Corp. is
reputed to be at least within
striking-distance of earning a
profit.
The Wheat Plan
/"Objection has been raised to
the Agricultural Council’s
proposal to fix the price of
wheat for Australian consump-
tion at 14s. Bd. a bushel (B.
16/7/’5B). The Australian
Wheatgrowers’ Federation is
asking for 16s. 6d. It says the
average yield over the past 15
years has been 14.8 bushels to
the acre, as against the “arbi-
trary” 15j bushels decided on
by the council, and the lower
yield gives a figure of 15s. a
bushel. To this the federation
added 10 p.c. for profit,
contending that as the industry
had contributed £l9B million to
he economy by selling
* heat und .?, r wor ! d
STV™ unreasonable 31^'*’
Note-money
“Herald” and
iyA “Sun” last week announced
that advertisements seeking
applications for deposit-money


This Investment
Offers
Complete Security-
-
G OVERNMENT-G U A SANTEE D
oft- :V ,;•'<
pjpllfll
WATER BOARD
s'/*% LOAN
: " : ‘T: :;: : ‘:;r+; \
CURRENCY:
5, 10 or 20 YEARS
Principal and Interest are Guaranteed by the
N.S.W. Government. The Loan is also a
Charge on the Board's Income of £13,900,000.
An Authorised Trustee Investment.
Apply at any office of the Commonwealth Trading Bank.
Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited, Bank of New
South Wales, The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
Limited; through members of Stock Exchanges; or the
Sydney Water Board.
SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Closes Saturday!
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
MW.73A.58.
or subscription of registered
notes would not be accepted
unless they contained for pub-
lication an up-to-date certificate
by a chartered accountant or
licensed auditor showing the
amount of security in tangible
assets that would be available
to cover all liabilities, including
notes or deposits, and a con-
solidated figure was required
from holding-companies.\
The newspapers immediately
received the heartiest con-
gratulations of Gerard Noall,
chairman of Melbourne
’Change, on the stand, since “it
w'ill in no way harm those
reputable companies seeking
money in this form but should
certainly assist greatly in pro-
tecting the public from placing
their funds in directions which
could prove highly undesir-
able” ; and, of course, from
accountants.
Canada’s Budget Deficit
'TTHts is a vital Budget-
year, especially in view of
what has happened in N.Z. and
what may happen in Australia.
A summary of Canada’s
recent Budget provisions may
or may not provide some
pointers to Canberra’s likely
course of economic It
should be borne in mind that
the unemployment situation in
Canada is much more severe
than in Australia.
Basing his revenue forecasts
on a Canadian gross national
product of 532,000 million, up
2 per cent, over 1957, Finance
Minister Donald Fleming on
June 17 brought-down the
Budget in a crowded House of
Commons in Ottawa.
Mr. Fleming said the antici-
pated total revenue in 1958
was $4652 million, some 8 p.c.
below last year’s receipts, and
that he had budgeted for
expenditures of $5300 million,
with revenue falling short of
expenditure of $648 million.
[A deficit of £290 million
(Aust.).]
No basic changes in tax-rates
were made, but Mr. Fleming
announced a number of minor
reductions of widespread appli-
cation.
Income-tax changes include
a widening of deductions for
medical expenses to include
the cost of drugs and medicines
prescribed by a physician.
Other proposed amendments
enlarged the eligibility of
husbands supporting estranged
wives and widened the exemp-
tions on gifts from husbands
to wives or from parents to
children.
Corporations will be allowed
to deduct 10 p.c. instead of
5 p.c. covering donations to
educational or charitable
organisations.
Forecasting stiffer anti-dump-
ing legislation to be introduced
at this session of Parliament
(no doubt inspired by internal
employment and cost -of -
production problems), the
Minister proposed several
tariff changes. These include
a new iron-and-steel. tariff,
higher duties on British
woollens and on zinc and zinc
products. There was also a
wide variety of miscellaneous
tariff alterations. .
The following are highlights
of the Budget proposals:
No change in personal or corpora-
tion income-tax rates.
Budget deficit for 1958-59 peace-
time record of $648,000,000 com-
pared with $39,400,000 last year.
Minor tax-cuts total $8,00u,(f)0
for remainder of current year,
526,000,000 in full year.
Peace-time record expenditures of
$5,300,000,000 and revenues falling
to $4,652,000,000 forecast.
Government to borrow an esti-
mated $1,400,000,000 in new money
this year to cover Budget deficit
and Federal loans.
Tax-deductible medical expenses
to include prescription medicines,
spectacles and diagnosis.
No change in tax on automobiles,
tobacco products, liquor, radio- anti
1 V-sets.
Tax-deductibility of' charitable
gifts by corporations doubled to
maximum 1.0 p.c. of income, elec-
tive January 1, 1958.
Once-in-a-liletime gift-tax exemp-
tion on real-estate transfers of up
to $lO,OOO between husband and
wife, or lather and child, effective
this year.
Canadian tourists abroad allowed
to bring back after July 1 dutyffree
purchases of up to $3OO a year,
lumping in one trip present allow-
ance of $lOO every tour months.
Tax-deductibility provided tor
husband paying tor support of wile
or dependent children under court
order.
Emergency goldmining assistance
boosted by 25 p.c. to about
$12,000,000 annually, starting with
1958.
Excise-tax of 20 p.c. on adver-
tising in special Canadian editions
of non - Canadian periodicals
repealed, effective immediately.
Period for claiming lax-refiinds
extended to four from two years
from end of__taxation-year.
Tariffs on imports of wool cloth
from Britain raised from present
50" cents a pound to 55 and 60,
effective immediately.
Government to tighten anti-
dumping Jaws sharply. ■
Tariffs revised upward and down-
ward on basic iron and steel, pip es
and tubes, zinc and other products.
Additional farm- and building-
materials exempted from sales-tax,
effective immediately.
Interest on tax-overpayments
increased to 3 p.c. from 2 P c -*
effective 1958 tax-year. W 1()
Municipalities given ss,oW.yw
annual relief from 10 p.c- sae v "
tax on some purchases/ eftecli
immediately.
For the purpose of conver-
sion, Canadian dollars are
worth a little more than 9s. id
Australian money.


>/A
Zt
r^ri44
'*’1
m
/*
1
<s
■J
>*
"<|
' 1
J
■
? sfsr/
®t
1
■riS;
<<■■■•
k,:
Z2S
gfcar*
/ :
4
'>
Ya
it)
I
Hk
k k
\
i's
v \
m
V'J'
w^
»
Jg-
-^a^gHHp 8
W
i
£
//
a
r»
S&
<;
is
W'l
fi
*r<
*4
1 8
</,
K
M
: >ot
se
A
m
sbV
(TO
2
<L-C^
V^v->-
5h I
11:
77?!
n
• ; l
ss.
w/m
■>%
m
<7
C'X:
r/ /
k
k
->/
, ✓
ft
7
$5
\
1
<@“T /A
I
£
W
5?
Ik
/
ir
S^
dL
IN
"A
r-^C
„ V
k.k.k,
= n
\rt
S Vi
-^>A>
"s
nn
p


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Peter Grimes”
Benjamin Britten’s three-act
opera opened the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust's Sydney season
on Saturday night. Seen it
had been only heard previously
in Sydney—for the first time,
it made a strong dramatic
impact, though this owed more
to the libretto of Montague
Slater than to the sung music.
Britten does not write well
for the human voice. He is
incapable, as everything he has
written has shown, of minting
tunes .that anyone would want
to remember. The music he
allots his singers in this opera
is drab.
True, this harsh story of
strong passions and hatreds, set
in a storm-bound, small Eng-
lish fishing-village 130 years
ago, doesn’t call for the sweet,
graceful kind of music. But
strongly melodious song need
not be inconsistent with the
howl of a gale, as Wagner
demonstrated in “The Flying
Dutchman.” Time and again
Britten falls back on recitatives
in which one note is repeated
over 20 to 30 words. As a
dramatic device it quickly loses
its effectiveness. And, while it
makes composing the easier,
and may save a lot of wear
and tear on all the other notes,
it becomes boring.
The strength of the music
lies wholly in the orchestral
writing, and here Britten is un-
commonly clever. In the pre-
lude to each act he sets the
mood and the atmosphere with
music of punch and penetra-
tion. He uses brass and wood-
wind most effectively to give
weight and character to the
dramatic highlights. Yet he pits
a tutti orchestra against full-
blooded choruses, with a result
that vital words are mangled.
Despite its shortcomings on
the vocal side, the opera is
a highly interesting study of the
modern idiom applied to the
lyric theatre. The aria as
practised by Verdi, Rossini,
Donizetti and other master-
melodists virtually disappears ;
duets and other ensembles are
restricted in size and number.
The singing is mostly either
recitative or chorus. The action
is rarely held-up for something
to be sung just for the sake of
demonstrating a singer’s epi-
glottal resilience, as too often
happens in stereotyped opera.
It is perhaps significant that the
most effective dramatic
moments of the opera —when
the near-demented Grimes,
crushed under the hopelessness
of his life when the whole
village turns on him following
the second suspicious death of
his apprentices, drags himself
across the beach to set out in
“Next time let ME do the talking !”
his boat to inexorable suicide —
is taken in utter silence.
The production of Robin
Lovejoy missed only a few
minor tricks. His settings
captured the spirit of' hard
economy that would obtain in
a village living precariously
from sea-farming. • His sea-
faring men and their wives and
children ebbed and flowed
through pier, beach, pub and
hall without ever the feeling
of their being regimented ; his
lighting effects gave character
to the dramatic events, which
followed each other with good
pace—one single light beating
down on the otherwise
darkened village, with Peter
Grimes’s gigantic shadow
moving against a backdrop as
he meditated on the black
ashes of his life, was a typical
Lovejoy touch. The storm
scenes —eschewing use of too-
obvious lightning - flashes
carried conviction.
In the fields of singing and
acting the men completely out-
shone the women. Ronald
Dowd portrayed with strength
and conviction a Grimes of
crossgrained temper, a man
hungry for human affection yet
unwilling to accept or give it;
cruel to his apprentice one
minute and contrite the next;
lonely, frustrated, at odds with
the world and with himself.
Dowd sang with style, power
and good enunciation.
Alan Light, as Swallow, the
lawyer, and Neil Easton, as the
retired sea-skipper Balstrode,
were capitally in character, and
they used their full-powered
baritones with good judgment;
their words, too, were never in
doubt. Raymond MacDonald’s
Rector was inclined to veer too
much between seriousness and
caricature, but his tenor
worked well.
Sylvia Fisher was a genteel
and sympathetic-enough Ellen
Orford, Grimes’s only friend,
but too often her words were
unintelligible ; and, whilst she
occasionally achieved rich
dramatic effects in her low-
register singing, generally she
was artistically less effective
than usual.
Lettie Powell’s landlady was
hearty and bold, but her voice
was inadequate in both quality
and power.
Karl Rankl steered the Syd-
ney Symphony Orchestra
through the many formidable
snags and shoals of this exact-
ing score with admirable skill.
Barenboim
When Beethoven disturbed
the universe by turning the
sonata into a record of a young
man’s tenderness and a young
man’s rage he was thinking
more of a Paderewski than of
the pianists of our intellectu-
alising and abstractionist times,
to whom romantic emotion, if
not exactly iri bad taste, seems
at best a little childish, at worst
a good deal insincere: Giesek-
ing, when he played the early
sonatas, was as unconvincing
as an old man reciting the
gorgeous follies of his youth
• what is needed is a
young man without a sense of
shame . . .
One is certainly not going to
say this of 15-year-old Daniel
Barenboim; nevertheless he
did round-out the first move-
ment of the “Moonlight” with
an as - yet - unshadowed
enthusiasm, and in the scherzo
produced staccato effects of
exquisite delicacy. The frenetic
presto was so carefully con-
trolled that one was surprised
by the additional power he had
for the “Appassionata”; he
will probably play this with
much more force by the time
he is 20, but that is all he
seems to need. But the
“Hammerclavier” (Op. 106);
that would have been more
Gieseking’s meat —there were
some good moments in the
adagio, and one had to admire
anyone so young who could
cope with that terrifying finale,
now reminding one of Schubert,
now of Chopin, culminating
in the prodigious fugue in
which the old boy, in the
enthusiasm of his demonstra-
tion, goes off on excursions
which leave the class, or at
least one member of it, far,
far behind.
❖ ❖ ❖
New York Ballet
The slick heels of the New
York City Ballet were still
raising the dust for J.C.W.
at Her Majesty’s, Melbourne,
at time of writing. Also at
time of writing the company
so exoticaily constituted had
on its third change of
.programme.
In “Stars and Stripes,”
star item of the change of pro-
gramme, the music, maim/
composed of Sousa band
marches, was loud and blast-
ing, and the dancing con-
sisted of squads and squads
of girls and young men in a
choreographic ve r sion of null'
tary costumes, and it only
needed a ballet version of a
trumpet-voiced sergeant-majo
to complete the illusion of t
parade-ground. The only thing


has a
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARKERE
A r o Pads —
No Springs
The nbo - bar-
aC'LS
hand whei
ilie oriflf.. P* ace d flat upoi
tffort and’ ® at once ’ wit>loul
■ Vont hemk all ® ovemen te. contro
security it „„, comt °rt anc
•Wat' movement'' and d L Bplaeed b -'
“’“'Pletelv P ™ ent ha * prove<
111:6 tried it “ ucceBBfui by aU w h<
"srrefe ' Free Lii « r^t we
3„ 24^ t v!^ n l t, ° 11 Con, Pans
R ' 243 Elizabeth st„ Sydney
Mineral
Supplement
t)
V
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
Os
CM
I*'
OV>*
eoH*
IrV^ 4 * 4
, DM€a£(k.
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE'
Any particulars gladly supplied —
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O. Box 3583,
SYDNEY • C.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE *
G.P.O. Box 712 F, ADELAIDE Q C.P.O. Box 758 K,
BRISBANE • Box H. 588, C.P.0., PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
that qualified the opus for
inclusion in the august com-
pany of the other ballets was
the stirring dancing of Melissa
Hayden and Jacques d’Am-
boise.
For anybody who could re-
member Lichine in “The After-
noon of a Faun” or had
even heard of Nijinsky’s per-
formance at his famous
pfemiere in Paris, the New
Yorkers’ version was a melan-
choly let-down. Why they
decided to bowdlerise the
sensuality of Debussy’s music
and Nijinsky’s dancing in terms
of a sickly sentimental sludio-
■4ory of a calf-love affair be-
tween a boy and girl passeth
understanding.
❖ ❖
Gary Graffman
Robert Schumann himself
might have wept with delight
at Gary Graffman’s re-creation
of h;s Sonata No. 2 in A Minor
at the Wilson Hall in Mel-
bourne, though his tears might
equally well have been shed
over the bad acoustics. How-
w, American pianist G raff-
man brought unusual breadth,
cleanness and sensitivity to
every one of the sonata’s
movements, and this is a much
more strongly fired work than
|°me other of Schumann’s
lyric-romantic pieces.
Graffman from the outset
•ore himself free from the
mackles of excessive senti-
mentality and looseness of
mterpretation. He considered
h e work as a whole, and his
control of phrasing and mood
f Vere as eloquent as in the per-
ormance of the Haydn, Proko-
neu and Chopin later in the
evening.
Some time earlier Graffman
™ Played along with Belgian
aductor Edouard van Re-
°oriel, at an orchestral con-
r m the more congenial
environment of the Melbourne
Town Hall.
He had business bn that
occasion with a not very
inspired concerto by Proko-
fieff ; again he was lucid and
to the point. The same could
be said about the conducting
of Remoortel.
❖ ♦>
Amadeus Quartet
Musica Viva brought this
British ensemble back to
Sydney for a brief return-
season, the first concert being
devoted entirely to classic-
romantic music.
There was Mozart’s F Major
Quartet, K. 590, the master’s
final essay in the form, given
a reading notable for radiant
lyricism, with some beautifully
delicate work by ’cello and
viola in the opening movement.
Overall there was the effortless
integration of all four in-
struments, born of the inner
understanding and sense of
dedication these players possess.
There was the Verdi Quartet,
strongly melodious, structurally
ingenious, and topped by the
splendid fugue with which the
Italian drew all the thematic
threads together. This work
was played with a precision and
style near perfection.
Finally, there was the
Brahms B Flat, Op. 67, its
changing moods well limned, its
final episode of serene song
invested suitably with a darker
color to sort with the under-
current of sadness which
Brahms so often calls upon.
❖ <♦ ♦>
“Present Laughter”
Noel Coward described his
“Present Laughter” as a very
light comedy, and Canberra
Repertory played it as a romp,
a bedroom -farce for the
modern age. Grant Mclntyre
made an exuberant Garry
Essendine, the dream-time man
of Coward's imagination, who
at 40, or even 50, still has the
emotional life of a late
adolescent and the morals of a
suburban tomcat.
Two women turned-in first-
class performances Joy
Warren, as Coward’s dpeam-
time secretary who indulges his
peccadilloes but is prim and
proper about those of every-
one else, especially other
women; and Jocelyn Juliff,
who was excellent as the ex-
wife who so adored her man
that every breach of the
Seventh Commandment made
her fonder. What a woman;
what a man!
Bernard Freedman clowned
his way across the stage effec-
tively to give us Coward's
version of the highbrow ; and
Jim Hutchens built a museum-
piece butler. The two pro-
ducers—Grant Mclntyre and
Anne Godfrey-Smith— squeezed
the last drop out of Coward.
M.C.
Artbursts
Sydney Art
Sydney is so teeming with
art at the moment that there
must be a renaissance on.
At any rate, it was pleasing
to note that Gerard Havekes,
whose exhibition at the Bissietta
Galleries is replaced this week
by some women painters, can
do some really fine little pen-
drawings and watercolors to
offset the coarseness of his big
oils.
And a minor phenomenon
is that there are two excellent
pictures in the Australian Art
Society's exhibition at David
Jones’: Garrett Kingsley’s
South Coast landscape in oils,
which in its freshness is a
notable advance; and, par-
ticularly, Frederic Bates's
watercolor of “Equine Move-,
ment,” a most precise and
lively little statement none the
worse for its echoes from the
Chinese. Jean Derrin (flowers),
R. H. Moppett, T. de Roty
Fodone and Miriam Moxham
also show pleasant watercolors
and lift the show a little above
its usually very average average.
Elwyn Lynn at the Mac-
qt'-arie Galleries, showing
decorative semi-abstracts illus-
trating “The Ancient Mariner”
which go off more like sky-
rockets than like depth-charges,
is replaced this week by
Cedric Flower, displaying “the
world of involved elegance
transferred to Tilba Tilba and
Wallaga Lake, with the most
surprising results.”
The Terry Clune Galleries at
King’s Cross ace sustaining as
well as they can the impact of
Charles Blackman’s sinister
golliwogs, following more-or-
less the same line as the familiar
grotesques of Bob Dickerson.
They are, on the whole, more
colorful than alarming.
At the National Gallery is a
travelling exhibition, loaned
from a London commercial
gallery, of contemporary
British graphic art —or some
of it. Chiefly for connoisseurs
of the techniques of litho-
graphy, silk-screen, etc., it
cannot be expected to make
much of a splash while the
Hiroshima panels are still
drawing the crowds, but there
are many charming works in
it, notably John Piper’s
buildings and lan Tyson’s green
trees and grey stone.
❖ ♦♦♦ <♦
Henri Bastin
Douanier Rousseau was a
Customs-officer in Marseilles
who had spent his life say-
ing, “Anything to 'declare,
Madam?” and, when told
“Nothing,” found ' himself
obliged to search the lady’s
underclothing, where he
usually found quite a lot that
needed declaring.
Some individuals would find
this quite an entrancing occu-
pation, but M. Rousseau did


BeSSf^
(£U?
'■ ',x
it V-.» i
mik a
W:ks
j
*B®
3SS®
®g
■
slfi
s a a
f|§|
INVEST FOR SECURITY
IN REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
6
p.a...uyrs.
£286 A ssets Bac kin g fo r eve ry
£lOO invested.
PAID UP CAPITAL £9,000,000
I.A.C. guarantees fixed quarterly
income free of exchange. Principal
paid in full before maturity
under certain circumstances.
ASSETS EXCEED
£55,000,000
ASSETS EXCEED
£55,000,000
For full details , see Prospectus: your copy available from Members
of Stock Exchanges, 703 Branches of A.N.Z. Bank Limited
or I.A.C. Branches.
m. mm
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LTD.
{Established 28 years)
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART • CANBERRA
• NEWCASTLE • WOLLONGONG • GEELONG
Underwriting Broken:
lan Porter & Co., Melbourne,
Canberra and Sydney
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders:
The Perpetual Executors & Trustees Association
of Australia Limited
D 66
not. He was bored to extinc-
tion with it. What interested
him passionately was birds,
trees, flowers, beasts and other
aspects of Nature untram-
melled by French Customs
regulations. So one day he
suddenly took to painting. In
a surprisingly short time he
acquired so much skill that he.
opened an art-school in Paris,
as well as exhibiting his own
pictures at the Salon des Inde-
pendents from 1886 to 1910.
He died in that year already
famous, and today his pictures
sell for fabulous prices, while
in “modern” circles he is re-
garded as an Old Master and
a primitive par excellence. He
has been the inspiration of tens
of thousands of fyoung artists
who aren’t in the least bit like
him, haven’t a fraction of his
passion and end-up in some
fashionable coterie like most
other artists.
Now comes Henri Bastin,
a . 62-year-old Belgian opal-
miner from Lightning Ridge
who three years ago turned
painter and has painted over
600 pictures, mainly on white-
washed sheets of newspaper
with paint used for sheep-
branding, and horsetail brushes.
He is exhibiting 35 of his
pictures at the Museum of
Modern Art in Melbourne,
where they are selling like hot-
dogs.
Bastin hasn’t the skill of
Rousseau, but he evidently has
his passion and the visual inno-
cence which makes him paint a
tropic isle and a stretch of
ocean both below and above
the surface all in the same
breath, and he is so anxious to
get everything in that the veins
on a gumtree-leaf are given
the same importance as a
distant range of mountains.
There is no future in his style
of painting, any more than
there is in a child’s, but as far
as it goes it has the same allure
as old Rousseau's.
M.G.S.
Films
“Nights of Cabiria”
Director Frederico Fellini
and his actress wife, Giuliefta
Masina (who made “U
Strada”), are again teamed in
this Italian-made film at
Sydney Savoy. Fellini’s per-
ception of the vagaries of the
human mind and character
enable him to mix comedy and
drama unerringly in this
study of the unquenchable
spirit of a slum prostitute who,
with all her illusions long since
shattered, still falls in love with
a man, only to b^,disillusioned
once more —and come up
smiling again.
The actress gives a fascinat-
ing account of the role, and the
subsidiary parts are all skilfully
handled.
❖ ❖ *
“Underwater Warrior”
Songandance comedian Dan
Dailey takes a plunge into the
gelid waters of drama in this
run-of-the-mill story about
the work of the underwater-
demolition unit of the U.b-
Navy. The tale follows the
usual stereotyped pattern"
hero’s initial failure to measure
up to standard, stiff-upp er ‘
lipped determination to mak
good, and final vindication
with suitable- heroics.. The fi t®
moves lethargically and tn
“thrills” are confined to tn
dreadful menace posed to tn
frogmen by submarine mo
sters which too obviously Q
their origin to the rub
industry.


The WILDCAT
COUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort &. Co., Ltd.
As one of Australia’s largest wool-
brokers and pastoral financiers,
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Ltd. shares
with the woolgrower the uncertainties of
a business highly sensitive to variation
in wool prices and seasonal conditions.
Both of these factors moved against the
co. last term (to March 31), and with a
sharp increase in operating-expenses, due
in part to the record quantity of wool
handled, net earnings fell by 23 p.c.
Well-equipped, financially, to cope with
the inevitable fluctuations in earnings
Goldsbrough, Mort had a conservatively-
stated £4,399,206 of reserves at Ipalance-
date to support its £4,800,000 paid
capital. A cautious appraisal of prospects
(or the current term and the upward
trend of expenses, as well as the lower
profit, would appear to have had some
bearing on the board’s decision to omit,
entirely, the bonus-div. added in previous
years to the basic 7 p.c. distribution.
At 4,352,513 bales, last season's wool
clip was approximately 10 p.c. -below the
record 1956-57 clip, total sales slipping
by 30.2 p.c. (£146.1 million) in value and
10.4 p.c. in volume:. —
Bales Average
Sold. Value. Per Bale.
1956-57 .. 4.886,561 £482.859,860 £9B 16 3
1957-58 .. 4,374,694 336,770,554 76 19 8
Preliminary forecasts estimate receipts
into store during 1958-59 at 4,240,500
bales and total wool production at the
equivalent of 1386-million pounds greasy
wool, or 42-miliion pounds under the
1957-58 total.
Incorporated in 1893, 45 years after
’be foundation of the business from
which it developed, Goldsbrough, Mort
normally sells well over 10 p.c. of the
Australian wool clip. In addition to its
woolbroking-interests the co. is a station-
owner on its own account and enjoys a
lar ße turnover as a merchant and stock-
j’.na-station agent. Branches are estab-
lshed in all mainland capitals and. in
ov er 160 country centres.
To finance extensions to the chain of
inches (five small businesses were
last term and six new branches
Pened) and help meet an increasing
oiand for advances, Goldsbrough,
new aSt s' ear offered shareholders one
Dlef ° rC *‘ 0r eve| y fi ve held, the com-
term° n t * le ‘ ssue eap ly in the current
Ai’.k raiSlng paid ca P'tal by £BOO.OOO.
clirl j oag h the co.’s receipts of wool
Pped by 18,000 bales to 548,000 bales
balec 6 !^ 1 ’ sa ' es reac hed a record 584,869
Unsniri the carry-forward of
to 61 ua 0 !?' dro PPi n § from 97,600 bales
Price 46 ° a i es - However,- as the average
pcr pound of greasy wool, for the
nine months to the end of the term,
tumbled from 80.5 d. to 66d., there was
a substantial, but less than propor-
tionate, reduction in income from
woolbroking (both the quantity and
value of wool influencing woolbrok-
ing receipts). Drought conditions
and the weakness of the wool
market also affected livestock prices, par-
ticularly in the case of sheep, and while
there was an increase in the value of
land sold and in the turnover of the
merchandising-department, overall turn-
over fell by £lO million to something
over £94 million.
The slip in gross earnings (down
£71,930 at £5,110,361) was less marked,
but the greater volume of business 'in-
volved a corresponding jump in expenses,
higher labor costs, etc., taking the total
increase in expenses (£3,473,325) to
£258,759. No div. was received from
the subsidiary, Fenwick and Co., Ltd.,
which ran-up a loss of £BB7 over the
year to June 30, 1957. Divs. amounting
to £14,500 were received from this co.
in the preceding term.
After providing £460,000 (down
£200,000) for taxation and £384,382 (up
£48,533) for depreciation, net earnings
from all sources, including £97,710 (up
£36,044) from investments, were down
by £173,470 at £570,000:
Net
Mar., Earnings.- r Dividend N Reserves.
£ £ £
Goodwill written off, £3OOO ..1
1953 . . 609,061 10 p.c. = 320,000 f 2,763,483
Special grant staff fund, £20,000 J
Share premiums, £200,000 .. .. 2,963,483
Tax overprovided, £141,195 .. .. 3,104,678
Interest arrears recovered, £24,784.. 3,129,462
Goodwill written off, £34,661 1
1954 .. 764,259 12 p.c. = 456,000 j- 3,377,060
Special grant staff fund, £26,000 j
Goodwill written off, £23,752
1955 .-. 674,297 10 p.c. = 400,000 j 3,599,605
Special grant staff fund, £26,000.. J
Goodwill written off, £ISOO
1956 .. 506,028 8 p.c. = 320,000 't 3,765,689
Special grant staff fund, £26,000 J
Capital profits, £96,507 .. .. 3,862,196
Tax overprovided, £2222 .. .. 3,864,418
Goodwill written off, £12,539 "1
1957 .. 743,470 10 p.c. = 400,000 \ 4,163,349
Special grant staff fund, £32,000 J
Tax overprovided, £44,517 .. .. 4,207,866
Goodwill written off, £17.600 1
1958 .. ■ 570.000 7 p.c. = 336,000 j 4,399,206
Special grant staff fund, £23,000 J
Cut from 10 p.c. to 7 p.c., the div.-rate
was the lowest for 11 years, the smaller
profit representing a return of 11.4 p.c.
on the enlarged share-capital as against
18.5, 12.7, 16.8 and 20.1 p.c. over the
four years back to 1954.
Balance-sheet movements reflect the
fall in wool-values and turnover, the
amount owing to creditors and con-
signors, etc., dropping by £1,735,343. hold-
ings of cash by £1,102,263 and advances
by £639,017:
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £4,000,000 £4,000,000 £4,800,000
Share applica-
tions .. 308,042
Reserves .. 3,765,689 4,103,349 4,399,206
Mortgage .. 1,009,041 1,493,562 1,463,287
Deposits 1 9,510,555 9,960.028 8,224,685
Creditors ) .
Tax provision 1,002,644 1,148,826 1,120,(06
Final divs. . . 200,000 280,000 192,000
Freeholds, etc. 3,030,125 3,325,353 3,u73,793
l>] allt .. .. 782,091 909,649 1,005.677
Stocks . . 751,951 888,458 1,133,857
Shares, Fenwick
and Co. .. 73,536 73,536 / 3,536
Shares other cos. 67,843 72.3.>8 69,848
Advances, etc. 12.404,774 13,301,009 12,661,992
Ca>h, bonds, etc. 2,377,609 2,783,444 17681,181
£19,457,929 £21,353,807 £20,199,884
A net £344,468 went into fixed assets,
modestly valued at “cost less amounts
written-off,” alterations to the Mel-
bourne and Sydney offices accounting for
a large part of this expenditure.
In view of the expected reduction in
the quantity of wool available for sale
in the coming season, even the main-
tenance of the wool-cheque at last year’s
level would require some improvement
in wool prices, but, as yet, there are few
signs of any significant strengthening in
demand for the staple, and results in the
current term could depend on the extent
to yvhich the co. can curb the uptrend
of costs.
Down ss. on this year’s “highest,”
buyers paid 295. 9d. for Goldsbrough,
Mort’s £1 ords. last week, the scrip, at
this price, yielding £4 14s. Id. p.c. from
a 7 p.c. distribution. Conservative book-
values show a net tangible asset backing
of 375. 7d.
Cottee’s, Ltd.
nPHE earnings of Cottee’s, Ltd., have
advanced in leaps and bounds since
the co.’s ords. were listed on ’Change
in 1952, and, despite a 13-for-17 bonus-
issue in 1953 and a one-for-three par-
issue in the following year the annual
15 p.c. distribution (16 p.c. in 1954) has
called for less than half of the year’s
surplus in each of the last three terms.
With reserves of 30s. lid. for each £1
ord. and an earning-rate, last term, of
almost 47 p.c. on ord. capital, the
prospects of a bonus-issue are, obviously,
•rather bright.
Although the sharemarket hadn't over-
looked the chances of a handout (the
scrip fetching 60s. early this month, as
against 48s. 9d. a year ago), the announce-
ment that shareholders in Dyasons
(Mildura) Pty. had reinvested their
capital in Cottee’s, at 80s. a share, sent
last week’s bids for Cottee’s ords. up to
70s. The issue of the 18,500 shares
involved in the transaction followed
Cottee’s offer of 80s. for each of the
'18,500 £1 shares in Dyasons and brought
in £55,500 of share-premiums, or a shade
over 4s. Id. for each £ of ord. . capital
as it now stands.
Investors are apparently taking their
cue from Dyasons shareholders when
estimating the scale of possible benefits,
and, assuming an unchanged div.-rate,
hopes of a one-for-two bonus would
seem to be behind the current price of-
Cottee’s scrip. If these hopes -are ful-
filled, the yield at 695. would be £6 10s.
sd. p.c., a two-for-five issue cutting the
return back to £6 Is. lOd.
When Cottee’s was formed, to take-
over an existing business, in 1927, acti-
vities centred around the production of
passionfruit products, including the well-
known Passiona cordial. However, the
post-war years have seen the co. develop,
primarily, as a highly successful manu-
facturer of jams, jellies, fruit-spreads,
peanut-butter, etc., and its current pros-
perity springs largely from the extension
of this side of the business.
Still active as a cordial-manufacturer,
Cottee’s several years ago passed-over
bottling and aeration of soft-drinks


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
to associated cos., in which it is a sub-
stantial shareholder, and at the end of
last year adopted the title Cottee’s, Ltd.,
in preference to Cottee’s Passiona, Ltd.,
under which name it had traded since
incorporation.
Including scrip issued in connection
with the Dyasons deal, paid capital totals
£323,500, of' which £55,000 is in redeem-
able held by the A.M.P. Society
and redeemable in annual instalments of
£SOOO. Controlled from Sydney, Cot-
tee’s operates factories in all mainland
capitals, and, in addition to the Dyasons
property at Mildura (Vic.), owns a citrus-
orchard near Gosford (N.S.W.).
Turnover has responded quickly to
increases in plant-capacity, despite strong
competition from large rival organiza-
tions, and financed mainly by retained
earnings, the steady expansion of manu-
facturing-facilities over the past five years
has paid-off handsomely, the ratio of
earnings (less pref. div.) to ord. capital
rising from 26.9 p.c. in 1954 to 29.1 p.c.
in 1955, 34.1 p.c. in 1956, 39 p.c. in
1957 and 46.9 p.c. last term.
From a record, but undisclosed, turn-
over the board was able to claim £120,197
(up £19,420) as net profit last term (to
March 31), an increase of over 19 p.c.
on the previous term's showing:
, Dividends N
Prefs. Ord.
5 Si 8 To Re- Re-
March, Profit.* p.e. senes, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Revaluation assets, £05,000 .. .. 157,890
Reserves capitalised, £65,000 . . . . 92,890
1953 .. 34,961 3,514 15 p.c. =22,500 8,947 101.843
1954 .. 43,893 3,514 10 „ ~24,000 10,379 118,222
1955 .. 61,727 3,514 15 „ ~30,000 28,213 146,435
5 p.e.
1950 .. 83,075 3,250 15 „ ~35,105 44,660 191,095
1957 ..100,777 3,112 15 ~ ~37,300 00,105 251.260
Revaluation investments, £30,750 . . 282,010
1958 .'".120,197 2.502 15 p.c. =39,350 77,985 359,995
Written after making ample provision
for taxation (up £19,500 at £86,500) and
depreciation (up £4530 at £30,765), the
earnings included £4105 (down £461)
received as divs. from the bottling cos.
Since the accounts were ruled-off
Passiona Bottling Co. (Sydney), Ltd.,
has come good with a 10 p.c. ord. div.
(worth £2500 to Cottee’s), its highest ord.
div. to date and the first for three years.
The large proportion of earnings re-
tained in the business and the “controlled
approach to development” adopted by the
board have permitted expansion with a
minimum of financial strain, and work-
ing-capital has increased by £34,513 to
£177,259 over the past two terms. With
the exception of a major freehold, re-
valued in 1952, fixed assets are in the
accounts on a conservative cost-/ess-
depreciation basis:
Paid capital— 1956; 1957. 1958.
Pref £65,000 £OO,OOO £55,000
Old 250,000 250,000 250,000
Reserves .. .. 191,095 251,200 359,995
Mortgage .. .. 33,184 31,700 30,148
Overdraft . . .. 52,954 20,880 66,967 j
Creditors .. .. 112,150 118,853 181,383
Tax provision .. 117,058 133,850 1.i4,235
Filial div..., .. 20,625 20,500 28,225.
£848,000 £899,055 £1,125,953
Freeholds, etc. .. 203,047 207,179 223,746
Plant, etc. .. 177,183 208,305 247*380
Shares in irancliis'ed
cos 15,850 15,851 46,758
Stock .. .. 238.419 208,195 381,822
debtors .. .. 2U9.479 197,434 ' 223,910
Cash, etc 4,388 2,091 2,331
—-
£848,000 £899,055 £1,125,953
Stocks (up £113,627) rose sharply over
the year, and, with an additional £26,482
in book-debts and a net £55,642 outlaid
on plant and premises, the co. went to
the bank for a further £40,081 and ended
the term with an extra £62,530 against
creditors and sundry provisions.
Cottee’s has already demonstrated, in
a most convincing fashion, its ability to
operate successfully in a highly com-
petitive market, and the co.’s position in
the trade has been further strengthened
by the Mildura purchase, which will pro-
vide the Victorian branch with a reliable
source of raw materials. The co. has
also extended its range of grocery lines
in recent months and is now turning-out
packaged soups and puddings in addition
to its other products.
Lamson Paragon Industries, Ltd.
Stationery is its business, but this
business has been anything but
stationary. Well entrenched in a field
analogous in its stability to the auto-
parts and most otjier replacement indus-
tries, the group, which has at its disposal
the know-how of the big' Lamson
organisations of Europe and America,
processes a host of patent commercial
paraphernalia, and office-systems and
-appliances, packaging products, etc.
So receptive has customer-support
waxed over the years, and especially over
the past decade or more, that last term
it became expedient for the 61-year-old
Lamson Paragon, Ltd., to slough-off its
old skin and reappear in its new guise of
Lamson Paragon Industries, Ltd., retain-
ing its former tegument as an operating
subsidiary. Creation of the new hold-
ing entity involved the issue on its part
of four 10s. shares in exchange for each
20s. ord. held by those on the register
as at July 9, 1957, de facto a one-for-one
issue of bonus-scrip and a virtual capital-
isation of goodwill, which now figures
for £730,880 in the balance-sheet, as
against tangible reserves of £640,617.
Gentle expansion wedded to convinc-
ing earning-power characterised the inter-
war period. Not since the public was
let in in 1909 has anything approaching
a loss been recorded in the accounts, and
only one year, 1930, saw the non-
materialisation oi a div., the average
distribution on equity-scrip tipping the
scales at 9.3 p.c.
The close of hostilities ushered Lamson
Paragon into the more hectic phase'of
its development, and share-capital, which
stood at £150,000 in 1945, began to pile-
up rapidly. Cash-issues since have
included 93,750 20s. shares (onefor-two)
at ss. premium each in 1947, 112,501)
(two-for-five) at Bs. premium each in
1949, and in 1951 236,250 (one-for-two),
each carrying an Bs. loading. There was
also one gratis handout, a one-for-five
affair in 1951, which was satisfied by the
issue of 78,750 shares. Culmination, of
course, was last year’s mighty leap, which
brought paid-up capital to its present
£1,419,000.
Three years’ consolidated accounts
show that the house of Lamson Paragon
is not built of straw:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1955. 1950. 1957.
Pajd capital .. £708,750 £708,750 £1,419,000
Reserves . . .. 559,020 598,114 640.017
Outside interests.. 150,872 . 109,900 180,904
Mortgage .. . . ,103,19 G 107,286
Overdraft .. . . 150,294 217,852 318,484
Creditors . . . . 190,000 ,191,745 182,583
Tax provision . . 117,119 135,021 127,872
Staff fund . . 107,030 120,289 132,455
Final div. . . 48,234 53,150 56,760
£2,049,925 £2,298,.089 £3,165,961
Freeholds . . .. 380,002' 447.885 503,090
Plant, etc. .. 50 7,00 3 0 1 0,08 1 625,844
Stocks .. .. 714.319 782,759 852,174
debtors . . .. 421,701 . 431,90 5 452,910
Cash, etc... .. 1,041 1,378 1,557
Intangibles . . 24,599 18,021 730,889
£ 2,049,925 £ 2,298,089 £3,165,961
Finances look very sound. For each
20s. currently owed there is 325. of more-
or-less liquids, adequate for this class of
business, and extraneous equities measure-
up to only 35 p.c. of a total of £3,165,961.
Trends show that growth isn't yet
played-out ; each term brings a steady
accretion in fixed assets, net investment
in which last year totalled £64,468, to
bring up the present book-figure of
£1,128,434. Unfortunately, the accounts
are vague as to the valuation-basis of
any of the assets, but in view of the
manifold aspect of the co.’s activity—
there are manufacturing centres in all
mainland States of the Commonwealth
and in New Zealand —book-freeholds
would probably have a conservative bias.
There was, however, a write-up amount-
ing to back in 1951. More
recent investments include a new and
“substantial” factory at Moorabin, Vic.,
and also a small specialised plant at
Wodonga in the same State.
These new adjuncts were funded partly
from retained earnings, but mainly from
the mortgage-loan floated in 1956, and
the bank has also lent a helping-hand
by way of an overdraft which ha*
fattened by £162,190 over two years.
Turnover is on the secret-list, but book-
debtors, £452,916 (up £20,951) suggest
as a fair guess that it is increasing-
Higher by £60,391 at £843,526, trading-
profit for the year ended October 31 laS
was charged with selling, administrate
and general expenses at £525,159 UP
£53,275), depreciation at £55,079 UP
£8664), to give pre-tax earnings °
£263,288 (steady). The tax-provision.


£97,625 (down £7260), nteasures-up to
this figure, and the resultant net profit,
after deducting outside interests, £148,205
(up £3077) represented a return of 21
p.c. on pre-reconstruction capital, com-
pared with 20.4 p.c., 22.0, 16.7, 14.7,
19.9 p.c. on average capital back to
1952:
Lamson Paragon Industries and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Ke-
Oet. Profit. ( Dividend N serves. serves.*^
31, £ 1-
1952. .110,402 10 p.e. = 55,286 55,116 461,;w0
Adj. o/side interests, £1703 .. 403,273
Unexplaine 1 reductions, £llOO .. 402,104
.To superannuation fund, £9572 . . 452,;>92
1953.. 95,046' 10 p.e. = 04,509 30.537 483,129
Goodwill written off, £7lO . . 482,4.19
Unexplained reductions, £1294 .. 4'81,12->
- To superannuation fund, £13,793 ... 407,332
1954. .108,877 10 p.e. = 64,969 43,908 511.240
Adj. o/side interests, £Bll . . ■ ■ 510,429
Unexplained reductions, £705 .. 509,604
To superannuation fuTid, £20,129 .. 489,535
1955. .152,172 12 p.c. = 82,687 09,485 559,020
Adj. o/side interests, £074 ... 5.>8,340
Unexplained reductions, £3240 .. ;>•>;>,100
To superannuation fund, £13.520 .. 541,.>80
1950. .145,128 124 p.c. = 88,594 50,534 598,114
Adj. o/side interests, £4l . . . . 598,155
Profit sale assets, £3OBI . . . . 001,230
Unexplained reductions, £2166 .. 599,0.0
To superannuation fund, £14,400 .. 584,640
1957. .148,205 9 p.c. = 92,198 50,007 040,017
•Subject to intangibles, £730,880 at October 31,
p * 1957.
An interim 5 p.c. was followed by
a final 4 p.c. on the bonus-enlarged
capital, representing a distribution of
13 p.c. on capital as it stood at the
beginning of the 1957 term.
More recently, in May of the current
term, an interim of 2\ p.c. was announced,
but no alarm was occasioned -as it is the
board’s usual policy to make the final
the more substantial distribution ; plus,
of course, the soothing assurance that
the year, which opened strongly, is living-
up to its promise and “good results may
again be confidently looked for.”
The sharemarket is backing 8 p.c., and,
seeing no other than straightout income
prospects for the immediate future, prices
the 10s. ords. at 13s. for an expected
yield of 6.1 p.c. Should 10 p.c. be forth-
coming in the not-too-distant future, the
yield would be 7.7 p.c. Consolidated
book-values show unit net tangibles of
9s. 4d. for the scrip, which wouldn’t be
out of place in any portfolio.
Maryborough Knitting Mills (Vic.)
'The overwhelming competition from
■ Japanese manufacturers feared by cer-
tain sections of the textile industry as a
consequence of the Japanese trade-agree-
ment has', so far, failed to eventuate.
Nevertheless, trading conditions through-
out the industry remain highly competitive
and in many cases the output of indi-
vidual cos. is well below their installed
capacity.
Mainly concerned with the manufac-
ture of knitted underwear, Maryborough
Knitting Mills (Cuttle), Ltd., managed,
last term, to hold the volume of turn-
over at the improved level reported in
the previous year, but net earnings fell
by almost 27 p.c., the board attributing
the drop to higher labor costs, the
disruption of production caused by
uilding-extensions and the heavy (and
non-recurring) expenditure involved in
c renovation of factory premises.
Cross earnings for the year (to March
31) were £28,146 thinner at £180,662, and
expenses £2212 higher at £101,153, an
extra £B2l in interest and divs.
(£3597) and a much smaller provision
for taxation (down £15,000 at £27,000)
limiting the fall in net profit to £14,775.
The provision for depreciation was un-
changed at £15,000, an amount “substan-
tially in excess of that allowed for
taxation purposes.”:
i Dividends To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. All Spares. serves, serves.
£ £ ■£ £ £
Reserves capitalised, £lB,OlB .. 287,036
1952 .. 31,073 10 p.e. = 18,619 13,054 300,090
From tax reserve, £3505 .. .. 303,055
1953 .. 29,520 10 p.c. = 18,018 10,908 314,503
From tax reserve, £7859 .. .. 322,422
1954 .. 02,704 10 p.c. = 18,019 44,145 306.507
Tax tmderprovided, £2145 .. .. 304,422
1955 .. 52,425 124 p.c. = 23,273 29,152 393,574
Tax overprovid d, £2288 ,r .. 395,802
1956 .. 32,229 124 p.c. = 24,049 8,180 404,042
Tax undi rprovidecj. £lO7O .. .. 402,900
1957 .. 54.900 124 p.e. = 27,928 20,978 429,944
Tax overprovidod, £OO9O . . . . 430.040
1958 .. 40,131 124 p.c! z= 31,031 9,100 445,740
The £40,131 profit equalled 16.1 p.c. on
paid capital, compared with 24.6 p.c. on
a lower average capital in the preceding
term, and 16.2, 28.1 and 33.7 p.c. in the
three years back to 1954. The div.-rate
' was steady at 124 p.c.
M.K.M.’s products are turned out at
a well-equipped knitting-mill in Mary-
borough (Vic.) and at annexes in the
Victorian towns of Talbot, Dunolly and
Avoca. An associated concern, Interknit
Hosiery Co., Ltd., manufactures woollen
half-hose.
Striking trouble in 1931, eight years
after formation, M.K.M. was forced to
write-off 55 p.c. of its share-capital, but,
in subsequent years, the co. has proved
a reliable profit-winner and div.-payer.
A one-for-six bonus-issue restored
approximately a third of the lost capital
in 1951, a one-for-three par issue, com-
pleted in the 1957 term, taking paid
capital to £248,248 (including £26,262 in
8 p.c. participating prefs.). Over the
seven years since the bonus-issue the div.-
rate has averaged 11.4 p.c.
The financial structure is particularly
solid:
Paid capital— 1956. 1957. 1958.
p'ref .. £26,202 £20.202 £20,202
Old. . i .. 172,772 221,986 221,986
Reserves .. .. 404,042 429.944 445,740
Overdraft .. .. 28,84 0
Creditors .. .. 24.808 24,813 29,831
Staff fund... .. 6,000 0,000 6,000
Tax reserve .. 26.000 42,000 27,000
Dividends .. .. 24,049 2,,928 31,031
£083,933 £778,933 £810,090
Freeholds •• /4,836 94,31/0 113,01/
Riant, etc. .. 102,012 93.037 100,783
Shares .. .. 7,057 7,0;>7
Stocks .. - . 325,923 349,409 390,553
Debtors' .. •• 138,909 129,210 133,317
Cash, bonds, etc. 35,196 10;>,264 65>003
£683,933 £778,933 £816,600
To cover a rather sharp increase in stocks
(up £47,144) last term and a gross outlay
on fixed assets of over £40,000, the co.
ran-up an overdraft of £28,840, drew on
holdings of cash, etc., for £39,301 and
ended the year owing creditors an addi-
tional £5OlB. The relatively heavy capital-
expenditure (incurred, partly, in com-
pleting extensions to the Maryborough
mill) left working-capital £10,017 lighter
at £473,131, but, with over 975. Id. in
current assets, at balance-date, for cveiy
£1 of liabilities, there is little need for
concern on this score. Plant and free-
holds were revalued in 1950.
Each f.-p. ss. ord. is supported by
net tangible assets of 60s. 3d., the scrip
selling recently at 7s. 6d. to return'£B
6s. Bd. p.c. from a 12 j p.c. div.
McDonnell and East, Ltd. (Q.)
■Drewar a one-paced plodder, showing
fleeting glimpses of brilliance, this
57-year-old broke into a gallop a dozen
or so years back and last term landed its
record in prize-money, £54,867, equal
to 18.9 p.c. on. ord. capital (prefs. are
a trifling £9OOO of the subscribed and
paid-up total of £295,027),
Accordingly, in view of this mounting
pace, which owes as much to a vigorous
sales policy as to the rising economic
barometer in the prosperous sugar-State-,
a previously somewhat nervous share-
market has seen fit to revise its handicap-
scale, and the 20s. scrip was bid-up to
over 40s. following the optimistic note
struck in chairman H. East’s annual
address, wherein he stated that turnover
had increased “remarkably” in the early
part of the current term, partly in con-
sequence of the timely rains.-
Yield is now around 6.5 p.c. on a
current ’Change quotation of 38s. 6d.
assuming that last year’s first-time-up
p.c. scale will be held. The board
hasn’t been noted for its impetuosity
when . it comes to sanctioning a
distribution. Current trends show that
there niay be some prospect of side-gains
before long:
Paiil • capital— 1956. 1957. 1958.
J> re f .. £9,000 £9,000 £9,000
Ord. .. 280,027 280,027 280,027
Reserves .. 233,290 247,375 265,709
Mortsraires ~ 902 4*0,002 99,402
Overdra it .. 107,090 144,897 90,939
Creditors .. 78.241 105,023 139,901
Slaft fluid .. 13,500 _ 13,500 13,500
'lax provision .. 31,176 33,418 38,769
Final divs. .. 15.021 15,021 22,172
£834,847 £894,803 £965,539
Freehold, plant, etc. 248,197 277,049 299,600
Storks .. 433,-944 435,445 445,955
Book debts .. 145.810 172,510 210,604
Cash, etc. 1 .. 0,890 9,259 3,32(1
£834,847 £894,863 £965,539
But this possibility shouldn’t be exag-
gerated. The total outside debt, £404,743,
doesn’t look too pressing, and the present
proportion of current assets to current
liabilities, £665,879 to £305,341, doesn’t
indicate any dearth of working-capital.
There is, however, £53,347 in reserves
stemming from a revaluation, of free-
holds in 1952, and continuing prosperity
may bring to light a small bonus.
Share-issues crop-up infrequently in
the public career of this Brisbane draper
and home-furnisher. From the time the
‘ share-register was democratised in 1920
until the present, there has been only
one, a one-for-two (approximately) cash
affair offered at par in October, 1951.
Here is the profit-table:
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 8 p.c. , Old. *, serves, serves.
£ £ £ &
Reserves disappear, £9182 .. .. 20/,030
1954.. 19,591 720 8 p.c. = 22,882 ■— 203,5-0
From tax reserve, £11,331 net .. 214,856
1955.. 30,211 720 8 p.c. = 22,882 6,009 221,405
1950.. 41,149 720 10 „ ~28,002 U. 527 233,292
1957.. 43,408 720 10 ~ ~ 28,602 14.080 247,373
1958.. 54,807 720 121p.c.= 35,753 18,394 205,709
Net profit for the term ended January
31 last jumped from £43,408 to £54,867.


©IF MFI&IiP
£50,000
ISSUE OF
I REGISTERED!
BrstHortgagel
D.E B ENT I R E
WSHH'ife
EACH £lOO DEBENTURE IS
BACKED BY'£4lo IN ASSETS .
Application forms and prospectus are
obtainable from any branch of the
Bank Of N.S.W., any member of the
Sydney or Newcastle Stock Exchanges,
or the offices of the Company at Ist
Floor, Park House, 15 Park St., Sydney,
or Ist Floor, Morton House, 5 Union
Street, Newcastle West.
CHECK THESE
HIGH RETURNS!
:*X;y
D
Underwriters: F. Scorer & Co., T. & G. Building, Hunter Street,
i Newcastle.
Bankers to Issue: Bank of N.S.W., All Branches.
Trustees: Bankers & Traders Insurance Co., Ltd., 131-133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
* CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LTD., I
15 Paric St., Sydney or 5 Union St., Newcastle West 0
CLIP | Please send me a copy of Prospectus without obligation. S
gpj OUT | NAME
IS | ADDRESS - , I
mk ■ i
’Phone Sydney BM 6945 (4 lines) or Newcastle B 4601 (8 lines).
PARK HOUSE
15 PARK ST.
SYDNEY
and at
MORTON HOUSE,
5 UNION STREET,
NEWCASTLE WEST
Computed after writing-off
£11,610 (£5,205 in 1957) for
depreciation and setting aside
£32,500 (£29,500) for taxation,
the earnings represented a
return of 18.9 p.c. on ord.
capital compared with 14.9
p.c., 14.1, 10.3, 6.6, 10.2 p.c.
back to 1953. After £36,473
had been handed over to the
two classes of shareholders,
£18,394 was added to visible
reserves. Thus on book-values
at balance-date net tangible
asset backing for the ords. was
345.; for the prefs. £55 3s. 4d.
N.Z. Breweries, Ltd.
N.Z.- Breweries’ announce-
ment of a one-for-two bonus-
issue took N.Z. sharemarkets as
a whole by surprise, though
some pretty persistent buying
had earl er taken the shares up
to 48s. 6d. from the year’s low
point of 455. After the
announcement they jumped to
555., 2s. above their previous
best for the year. (All prices are
expressed in N.Z. currency.)
All this, of course, occurred
before the Budget imposed such
heavy increases in excise-duty.
The market then came back to
51s.
Accounts for the year to
March 31 last are not yet avail-
able, but for the previous year
consolidated net profit was
shown with customary modesty
at £313,593. That was after
provision of £477,520 for
depreciation and £599,775 for
taxation. The directors said at
the time that depreciation pro-
vision was not excessive, but
the tax figure indicates that
it certainly wasn’t stinted. And
the 8| per cent, dividend took
less than two-thirds of the
admitted profit. Against paid
capital of £2,274,015 there were
reserves of £3,351,000, giving
the £1 shares a net asset back-
ing of nearly £2 10s.
The coming-scrip issue, still
subject to consent by the
Capital Issues Committee, will
increase paid capital by
£1,137,008 to £3,411,023. It
will be made by capitalising the
share-premium reserve of
£173,719 and £963,289 of the
assets-revaluation reserve.
An per cent, dividend
on the new capital of £3,411,023
would take £2£>8,432, an
amount which seems well
within the company’s earning-
capacity, subject to any fall-
off in beer-drinking following
the increased excise-duty.
One thing is puzzling share-
holders : Why was the issue not
made before March 31 to bring
it within the tax-free year which
preceded PAYE? The few
months’ delay will cost some
of them quite a 16t of money.


Socialism and Crisis
Wellington, July 14.
A fortnight after Finance
Minister Nordmeyer read
his Budget to a glum-faced
House it is hard to find anyone,
anywhere, with a good word
to say for it.
It has been freely described
as “rapacious,” “vicious,”
“ruthless,” “reckless,” “irre-
sponsible, ’’ and, in private, has
attracted a variety of even
more colorful epithets.
Probably never in N.Z.’s
history has a Budget aroused
so much anger. The humble
taxpayer who fell for Labor’s
election-bait —the “£lOO rebate”
—realises now, that
he'll pay it all back and a lot
more as well. And, unless the
present Government can be got
rid of, he’ll go on paying.
For a good many people
direct income-tax is up about
30 p.c. But it doesn’t stop
there. Cigarettes are up from
Is. to Is sd. (N.Z.) a packet of
10 ; beer is up from 6d. for a
reputed 9oz. to Bd. for Bydz.;
petrol is up from 3s. 2d. to 4s.
2d. (N.Z.) a gallon. And it’s
pretty plain that a new wave of
price-increases is about to
spread through the whole
economy.
%
Effect on Wages
The Federated Seamen’s
Union has met and resolved
that “consumers will have to
pay the direct increase in prices
imposed by the Budget, and
will also meet, in increased
prices, the additional charges
levied on business firms, which
recover the total of their
expenses, plus a percentage of
profit.”
“Increased prices constitute
the inflation of our economy
and will erode the value of
savings and pensions,” the sea-
men add.
The Federation of Labor has
decided not to make an
immediate application for a
general wage-increase. “But we
will watch closely the effect of
the Budget on the consumers’
price-index and make a
decision later,” said the presi-
dent, Mr. F. P. Walsh. “It does
appear to us that in the Septem-
ber quarter of this year the
index will probably have risen
by about 5 p.c.”
The Labor movement is
showing obvious signs of strain,
though in the House the
Government preserves an
apparently united front.
If Labor has taken the
Budget hard, the reaction of
businessmen can well be
imagined.
Manufacturers, on whom the
Government is depending to
replace the goods shut-out by
import-control, have been
slapped-down hard by the
Government’s shockingly ill-
conceived and ill-timed tax
proposals affecting company
profits and dividends. Through
their federation the manufac-
turers have made an urgent
appeal to Mr. Nordmeyer to
reconsider. They are not satis-
fied with modifications already
announced.
Discrimination
In the Budget it was stated
that companies retaining more
than 50 p.c. of net tax-paid
profit in ahy year would be
taxed at the rate of 7s. in the
pound on the “excess retention.”
This aroused such an uproar
that Mr. Nordmeyer, a few
days later, said that the legis-
lation would include a pro-
vision to enable the Commis-
sioner of Inland Revenue to
remit the tax on so much of
the “excess retention” as he was
satisfied the company was
obliged to retain for certain
purposes by reason of commit-
ments existing at the date of
the Budget. These purposes
would be:, (n) to meet current
liabilities, 'including overdraft,
but excluding long-term accom-
modation adequately secured ,
(b) to meet necessary develop-
ment expenditure.
A second provision would
allow for a refund of the tax
on so much of the “excess
retention” as was intruded in
a dividend to shareholders
within six years of the year in
which the tax was imposed.
A third provision would
absolve from tax in the hands
of shareholders so much of a
dividend as the commissioner
was satisfied was paid from
a company’s capital-profits or
from the writing-up of a
company’s capital-assets. (This
appears to cover bonus-issues.)
The modification to the
excess - retention tax will
naturally be welcomed by some
companies, to which relief may
be given from an impossible
situation. But the changes do
not make the tax any better
in principle. In fact, they make
it worse —by introducing an
undesirable element of discrimi-
nation. Not only that; the
amended proposals seem to be
quite impracticable. How can
the commissioner be expected
to have a proper knowledge of
the affairs of all the companies
on which he will be called to
adjudicate? The directors
know their own business best,
and it should be left to them
to decide -how their share-
holders' tax-paid funds should
be used.
There is pretty general
agreement on two points:
(1) That the Government has
seized on the overseas funds
crisis as an excuse to force
its Socialistic ideas on to the
country.
(£) That its admitted diffi-
culties over internal finance are
almost entirely due to its reck-
less and cynically inspired elec-
tion-bribe—the £lOO tax-rebate.
It was. warned repeatedly by
the previous Government that
the money to provide the rebate
was simply not there, but it
refused to listen.
Now it has had a sharp
warning from the Controller
and Auditor-General* Mr. J. C.
Atkin.
Auditor-General’s Warning
In- his annual report to
Parliament Mr. Atkin refers
to the “critical situation” which
arose as a result of the rebate.
The stated intention of the
Government to remit income-
tax amounting to about £l9
million, about 10 p.c. of the
year’s revenue, raised the ques-
tion of whether the Audit
Office could contihue to pass
the day-to-day expenditure, he
says.
It did not at first appear
possible within the law to carry
out the Government’s inten-
tions, and a special report for
submission to Parliament was
prepared by the Audit Office.
However, a memorandum from
the Minister of Finance out-
lined the Government’s pro-
posals for meeting the situa-
tion, and, as these appeared
to avoid any breach of the
statute law the position was
accepted subject to certain
reservations.
“The point it is desired to
stress,” says Mr. Atkin, “is that,
if a similar situation arose
again, it could be at a time
when the resources of the
public finances would not
permit of adjustments being
made. The Audit Office would
then be placed in the difficult
position either of being a
party to a breach of the law, or
by adhering to its statutory-
duty and refusing to counter-
sign cheques for expenditure
not covered by revenue in sight,
of involving a complete hold-
up of Government financial
operations.”
In the sharemarket trading
has dwindled away to a mere
trickle since the Budget. In-
vestors have adopted a “watch-
and-wait” policy. It’s hard to
see how they could do any-
thing else. Many of the
Government's proposals are
ambiguous. Some have been
modified already ; others may
be altered before the taxing
legislation comes down.
In any case, sellers are not
ready to make big concessions.
There is always the prospect of
a change of Government. That
might not get rid of the
dividend-tax, but, if it did not, it
would certainly result in a sub-
stantial reduction in company-
tax and, most probably, aboli-
tion of the excess-retention tax.
Meantime, on the basis of
the restricted trading so far
recorded, it seems that prices of
N.Z. issues are down by an
average of about 6.5 p.c. Aus-
tralian issues have not beeu
affected. Australian dividends
will not be subject to dividend-
tax in N.Z., though that happy
position could be altered if a
double-taxing agreement weie
entered \ into by the two
countries. Such an agreement is
on the cards.
Brewery Shares
One of the biggest falls in the
fortnight after the Budget was
recorded by Dominion
Breweries, 7s. 6d. down at 795.
(N.Z. currency). N.Z. Breweries,
ex dividend, cum expectation
of one-for-two scrip issue,
showed a net fall of Is. lOd.
to 50s. 6d.
Breweries have not been
helped by the rise in beer-duty
and by a subsequent dispute
about the price of beer in bars.
Formerly the thirsty citizen
was' entitled to a 9oz. glass,
“reasonably full/’ for 6d. Now
the Price Tribunal has decreed
that the price in future must
be Bd. for BjOZ. of beer—no
container-size specified.
The publicans say they can't
serve 84oz. in a,9oz. glass. But
their customers answer that
this is precisely what they have
been doing for years.
Meantime the publicans are
defying the price-order. They
are charging 9d. for beer in a
9oz. glass—in practice seldom
if ever more than ByOz. —for
which the price should be Bd.
This has been going on for
several days, and beer-drinkers
can't understand why no
decisive action has been taken
to uphold the law. Inspectors
are reported to be gathering
evidence on which prosecutions
may be based.


A Real Lie
By RAY MATHEW
Miss Peters and Miss
Frobish ... it you said
the names quickly
they sounded like one
person: Miss-Peters-and-Miss-
Frobish.
And if they hadn’t had one
another there would have been
no one to call them by their
first names ; they had no one
else. Even the headmistress of
their school addressed them as
Miss Peters and Miss Frobish.
No one remembered them.
Their past was forgotten.
They referred to it, some-
times, in the staff-room : Miss
Frobish in her fluttery,
questioning way, pleased if any-
one heard or was interested
(“Do you remember . . ;?”);
Miss Peters brusquely and
simply, as a statement of what
life was once like —when they
had been on the Committee for
Higher Pay; when they had
represented their district at big
federation meetings in the city
and Miss Peters had spoken and
had had her way ; when, dur-
ing the war, Miss Frobish had
knotted and knotted, making
camouflage nets and Miss
Peters had tried to join-up.
Sometimes they talked of the
long-time-ago when they never
knew each other ; it led, always,
to their meeting, which could
be talked-about and smiled-
over for ever: how Miss Fro-
bish had come to the new staff-
room, nervous, apologetic, and
had dropped a cun ; how the
other teachers had stared and
Miss Peters had come over
to her, kind, abrupt, and had
helped her; how they had
discovered their interest in
music and had become from
that oh, so quickly!—such
friends.
Often they talked of their
childhood: Miss Peters, eldest
of five girls, firm with respon-
sibility, her nature silenced ;
Miss Frobish, little Anne-
Marie, an only
and loved—unhealthily so since
her father was a naturalised
Russian. It was because of
that, and the fact that she read
the language, that Miss Frobish
had joined a Russian club
during the war. But she often
said now that she was glad she
had left it in.time. Miss Peters
had never approved. No one,
she felt, who worried about
God like the Russian novelists
could possibly be sincere.
The Russian-club affair was
the only disagreement in their
long relationship, unless you
counted their difference about
Vaughan Williams and English
Music, and with the war, the
need to win, and the fact that
the Russians were in a sense on
our side it had never become
an important disagreement.
Because of it, Miss Frobish
had begun writing, in Russian,
to families in Europe other
than her father’s. She con-
tinued to do so after the war,
although Miss Peters thought if
at the very least a waste of
time. “Nothing you can say,
Anne-Marie, will alter their
opinions.”
“1 must try though, mustn’t
I?” said Miss Frobish. “1 like
writing, and it’s a duty. They
are my father’s people really.
Half of me is Slayic, you know.
I have their patience, I
suppose.—
“We all have a Dvorak
streak,” said Miss Peters, “but
it’s necessary to control that
side of our nature. 1 try, con-
stantly.”
They were the same age,, and
when they retired at 60 it
seemed the obvious,, and the
dream, thing to pool their
pensions and to live together.
They would have a house in
Sydney with a garden. Miss
Peters was sure one could grow
things and save, so that a little
money might be enough to
indulge in luxury. “We might,
if we are very careful,” she said,
“be able to go to the Salzburg
Festival in a few years.”
“I love orchids, don’t you?”
said Miss Frobish.' “They’re
thrilling, somehow. Because of
the Americans in the war, I
suppose.”
“They’re certainly not whole-
some,” Miss Peters. “I’m
not sure that they are natural
flowers even. They look odd.”
But she grew orchids, to
please Anne-Marie, and they
worked the garden together. It
was too big for them, though.
It made them tired and
irritable, Miss Peters especially,
although she would not admit
it. “You’re behaving as' if you
were old, Anne-Marie,” she
said.
“It’s you who are doing that.”
said Miss Frobish. “You won’t
see us as we are. You’re
becoming odd about our age.”
It was a cruel thing to say.
“Odd” was a word Miss Peters
very much disliked, and it
wouldn’t have been surprising
had they quarrelled, but they
were, afraid of the sudden gap
their words had opened between
them. They said nothing more
about it.
A few weeks later though,
they agreed that they must be
sensible and not depend on
each other too much. “Anyone
would- irritate anyone, given
time. Wouldn’t they?” said
Miss Frobish.
“I suppose it’s men,” said
Miss Peters suddenly. “We are
becoming old maids.”
“Oh, it’s not that!” said Miss
Frobish. “We have our
interests. It couldn’t be that.
Could it?”
But she knew that it was true.
A man and a woman was the
natural thing. Nature hated
friends: it had no point for
them. They were odd.
'T'hey arranged that two
nights of the week should
be “free nights”. One got one’s
own meal. One asked no


ftcUffli
>
\
0
Women have made a profound contribution to
the Faith of this world. I saw it strikingly displayed
in that pageant which passes in the Holy Land.
Women are inseparable from the Christian
story. There was Mary at Bethlehem—and Calvary;
the wife of Pilate troubled by a dream; Helena in
her quest of the Holy Places,; and the legion of
others whose devotion has lived above the troubles
of every time, and carried men on to their spiritual
victories.
The procession moves unbroken across the
centuries. It moves today. One of the vivid
memories I have of Jerusalem is of a Syrian
Orthodox service I attended. It was in Aramaic,
the language Christ spoke. Most of the grown
people present were women.
Around me I saw suffering lined into faces
transfixed in the fervour of their praying. These
were some of the half-million people unsettled by
the partition of the country, living in temporary
dwellings in Jordan, many of them subsisting on
aid from the United Nations.
Of this world’s goods they had lost almost
everything. Their only sense of security and safety
was in the Faith they were cherishing.
As I looked at them and listened to the children
chanting the responses, my thoughts went back
to the women of Australia.
In the strange variegations of life, the work of
Australian women is in a far different context from
this; in Australia there is neither want nor fear as
millions like these people have known it.
There are. undoubtedly, the cares inseparable
from the making of homes and the rearing of
families, particularly for those women of our
Outback whose work is framed in isolation.
But devotion is the centre of it all, and this
I see to be held in common between the good
women of every race, in whatever lane of life they
may choose to walk. In their hands rest the hopes
of the spiritual survival of mankind, for it is in
their role to be the mothers of the first teachers
of men.
// //asfi*
7
questions. One could stay
in or go out. If one went out
one gave no explanation. It
would be a secret, unless one
wanted to tell it.
“It will be quite thrilling,”
said Miss Frobish, “won’t it,
in a way?”
“Sensible,” conceded Miss
Peters. - “It's the only sensible
arrangement. It will keep us
from being too much in each
other’s pockets?’
But Miss Peters rarely went
out and if she did she would
explain where she had been.
She would leave a concert-
programme on the table, or
even a theatre-ticket, so that
Miss Frobish would know and
they could talk about it; share
the programme.
Miss Frobish went out almost
always and, until she realised
how it hurt Miss Peters, she
never gave any clue as to
where she had been. When
she did realise she became
voluble about her experiences,
talking a great deal, making it
all sound exciting, sharing it.
But she did not always tell the
truth.
She had more acquaintance-
friends than Miss Peters, who
had kept no one she did not
care for ; and Miss Frobish did
not like to remind her of that.
Then again, Miss Frobish liked
to see people—what they wore
and how they looked. She
could very happily spend her
time sitting in a cafe-window
and looking out, or even just
walking in the street and
enjoying the people. They were
pleasures Miss Peters could
not share. She regarded them
and had said in the old
days when Miss Frobish had
suggested them to her, as a
waste of time. Her mind was
too purposeful for sitting
around, and although she loved
walking she always set herself
a destination, even when they
holidayed.
Miss Frobish had not told
her that her enjoyment of their
walks together had not been
in their achievement but in
the incidentals on the way.
With her two free nights, Miss
Frobish was able to indulge
what she regarded ’as her
reprehensible but really very
innocent tastes. It gave her a
delicious feeling' of daring to
do so when she could, and
should really, have gone to
something improving or have
done something definite. But
she had to lie when she came
home.
And Miss Peters found her
out. The programme had ended
that Miss Frobish claimed to
have seen.
Miss Peters said nothing and
Miss Frobish, realising, said
nothing either. Only, from then
on, her descriptions of her free
nights became more detailed,
more confiding and more un-
convincing/ They became, and
both knew it,'elaborate lies.
Cometimes they had
visitors callers really.;
they actually invited no one.
They were friends always of
Miss-Frobish: people she had
known in the past, even some
ex-pupils. She had an open
childishness and pleasure in
people’s talk that flattered them
and made them laugh. She was
an amusing person, and sym-
pathetic in a quick but not very
deep or upsetting manner:
People held on to her in an
acquaintancey way. They
called her Miss Frobish and
came to tell her things. It gave
her pleasure, but it was ihe
kind of relationship that Miss
Peters had never encouraged.
She believed in talk between
equals, not telling. She wanted
friends, not acqaintances: they
took your time and your
strength, they left you nothing
for your real friends.
Some of the callers ""were
Russians, people Miss Frobish
had known in the Tolstoy
Society in the days when she
had been reading those God-
given novels in the original and
had talked about them to others.
Their coming, she explained,
was a way of keeping-up the
language.
Miss Peters, of course, got
on well enough with everyone,
but that was all. Even when
they knew her and understood
her way, it was never she whom
they came to see. It was Miss
Frobish, and Miss Peters knew
that she was —if you took a
cheap view—jealous because
Miss Frobish had time for
them. She could have seen
them on her free nights. There
was no real need for them
to call at all. What did Miss
Frobish do when she was free?
Miss Frobish became very
interested in the mail. She
would wait, very obviously
wait, for the postman and
then hurry to meet him. It
may have been that she enjoyed
her chat with him, but some
days she came back with a
letter in her pocket, or hidden
in her hand, a letter she had
removed from the others. One
day when Miss Peters was
weeding in the garden she saw
Miss Frobish take a letter from
the postman and hurry inside.
She went to the kitchen-door
and called out, to ask if it
was for her.
“No, Lillian dear,” said Miss


robish from inside. “There
as nothing today.”
Perhaps she meant that there
as nothing for Miss Peters.
Miss Peters rarely wrote
tters and when she did they
ere short and businesslike;
otes really, but they said what
le wanted to say and they
junded like her. Miss frobish
rjoyed writing because it
'ould mean answers. Of a
ight she would often sit
writing away while Miss Peters
jad, and v almost always as she
inished a letter she would
)ok up, pulling in the tongue
aat protruded while she wrote,
nd read some of it aloud.
Miss Peters could not avoid
oticing when Miss Frobish
.rote a very long letter from
which she read her nothing,
t was, too, never in the pile
f mail that Miss Peters would
ake to post, so as to have a
walk down to the letter-box
nd back.
?*he watched Miss Frobish
one night and pretended
o read. Miss Frobish wrote
iage after page. There were
leven in this letter. She put
t in an envelope and kept it
iway from the others she had
vritten, the ones she had read
rom.
“I’m tired,” she said.
Miss Peters looked up from
ler book. “Let me post them,
lear.”
“You are sweet. I’ll have
some tea for you when you
some back.”
But when she gave Miss
Peters the letters the thick one
tvas not among them. She had
aut it under the blotter.
“Do you know where I put
my tartan jacket?” asked Miss
Peters.
“It’s in the cupboard, Lillian.
[ put it away this morning.”
“I’ve looked in the cup-
board.”
“You must have missed it.”
“Anne-Marie, dear, I’m not
exactly senile.”
“But, Lillian, an easy mistake.
I put it there myself.”
“Are you sure?”
“Very sure. I’ll get it for
you.”
When Miss Frobish went out
of the room Miss Peters lifted
the blotter. The letter was
there. It was addressed to Mr.
P. Kirov —a Russian name, a
local address. Miss Peters Tad
never met anyone of that name.
Miss Frobish had nevej*
mentioned
Miss Frobish came back with
the coat. “You. see, dear?” she
said. “It was there all the
time. I’ll help you put it on.”
“You had better,” said Miss
Peters coldly. “I must be
senile. It was in the cupboard?”
“Yes, yes, yes, Lillian.” Miss
Frobish laughed.
“Oh Anne-Marie,” said Miss
Peters. “I think I will go mad.”
Miss Frobish laughed again
and Miss Peters went- for her
walk —to the letter-box and
back.
Why would Miss - Frobish
write so lengthily and so
frequently to soifieone she could
visit? The address was a tram-
ride away. He could have
called. If he was ifl she could
have gone to him. The
address was so close. She had
her free nights. She could
have gone any night. Perhaps
she was in love with him ;
perhaps they were lovers ; that
would explain the free nights,
the lies. But why would she
write, w'hy be secret? Besides,
she was old. They both were.
They were listening to a
concert on the wireless.
There was a Vaughan Williams
overture that Miss Peters was
keen on and there was to be
a Schubert symphony that Miss
Frobish liked.
In between the two works,
while they were still being cold
in their old joking way about
Vaughan William's, whom
Anne-Marie would lump with-
Elgar and minds like that, there
was a soprano soloist. She sang
the big aria from the first act
of “Aida,” an opera they had
seen together only a year ago,
“Ritorna Vincitor”; the
soprano torn between love and
duty. To which did she owe her
loyalty, the country where she
was born or the place where
her love lay?
“O patria mia,” sang the
soprano. My native land ...
They listened carefully. She
was singing well, more softly
than most singers attempt in
Italian opera, and Miss Peters
was just going to make a
remark to that effect when the
significance of the words
touched her. She stayed silent
and listened carefully. She
heard it out in a kind of excite-
ment, and with the soprano’s
great cry at the end she found
herself breathing heavily and
impatiently, wanting her to
finish.
“Anne-Marie,” she said. “If
you had to choose.. . These
scientist-people who give
secrets away . . . What you
believed in or where you had
been born . .
“Oh, don’t let’s talk politics
now. They’re playing the
Schubert.”
She didn't want to discuss it.
Miss Peters watched her as she
listened to the Schubert Fourth,
and let the thoughts come into
her head, although she knew
that they were silly. She told
herseff so, but they kept
coming more quickly and more
convincingly as she argued
against them. Russians, Russia,
the To Is toy Society . . .
Letters to someone not to be
met . . . Miss Frobish-s friends,
even the ex-pupils. They were
quite important people, some
of them, in their way useful.
One of them was a chemist
with the Government. It was
true that unsuccessful pupils
never reappeared, but all the
same . . . Useful people who
came to talk. No, not to talk ;
to tell, to tell Miss Frobish,
who wrote' to a Russian, a
secret letter
Miss Frobish had spoken to
her twice and she hadn’t
answered.
“No, I’ll make the tea,” said
Miss Peters. She wanted to
go into the kitchen, where she
could think properly. The silly
thoughts kept,coming.
She took the tea-things into
the lounge-room. The national
station was filling-in time with
the Ravel “Introduction and
Allegro,” music that Miss
Peters disliked as neurotic,
whimpery. Miss Frobish was
leaning back in her chair, her
eyes shut, her head looking
childlike and innocent against
the high-backed chair. She was
smiling.
“Jolly hot tea!” said Miss
Peters loudly. The phrase was
one of their jokes, but- Miss
Frobish didn’t smile. She looked
hurt.
She was annoyed, really. Miss
Peters was often unkind about
the way she listened to music,
had told her once not to be
“girlish.” Only recently when
she had heard Kathleen
Ferrier’s last record —the pure
voice singing it seemed its own
death —she had cried. The tears
had come, with no forcing at
all, and Miss Peters had
laughed and said she was
“sentimental.” Well, she liked
being sentimental.
Neither of them mentioned
the music. They heard it and
sipped their tea in'silence. Then
it stopped, abruptly, and the
news began. Miss Peters got
up to switch it off. They had
finished with that sort of life
when they gave-up teaching
Social Studies. The announcer
was reading the headlines.
“Russia demanded . . .” he was
saying.
The words seemed to hover
for a long time after the
switch had clicked. They
TAPESTRIES
Down the far end of this long sunlit room
There is a four-shaft, hand-built weaving loom
Set against a white mud wall where Sybil
(Spirits are conceded use of the shuttle)
Wove morning air with tapestries of wool.
Snapping and knotting, fingers and heart full,
She wove down for the children the heroes
That stride and man the myth of a limbo
That otherwise might fall, go frankly stale
Like an abandoned hall in spider-veil.
She knew how, threadwise, to form line by line
Stockmen, lean as Lawson, or to define
The stance of a Morgan, Kelly or Hall;
Each stance as easy for her to recall
As taking from here the look of the place —■
She never met them but read each face
From the dry creeks and shouldering rocks,
Would set their heads as the jackass still mocks
And knot in the eyes with a heat-haze blue.
Then each cloth, more than life-size, eight-by-two,
She hung so that to sit was like a stall
With the cast all on stage at final call.
From the white walls of this long sunlit room
The old tapestries still quietly bloom —
And, the family having long dispersed,
It is years since the old tales were rehearsed.
But mention, say, the Kellys; where and when,
And Sybil’s brood, grown to ladies and men,
Out of childhood will instinctively agree —
“Yes, they used to watch us while Sybil made tea!"
VICTORIA.
NOEL MACAINSH.


MEN, TOO, CAN LEARN
SHORTHAND
IN TWO HOURS!
In a few short hours you can be an expert shorthand writer!
Guaranteed Miracle Method the sensational Shorthand System that
swept America, enables men and women of all ages and all walks
of life to gain better positions and more pay.
The Quickest, Most Inexpensive System Ever Devised
You benefit immediately with Miracle Method—no old-fashioned
symbols to learn. Uses simple converted longhand which you
already know! We GUARANTEE >ou will write good shorthand
in two hours and 120 w.p.m. in fifteen hours! Full details can
be yours FREE and without obligation. WRITE NOW TO:—
Dept. 86, MIRACLE METHOD SHORTHAND,
Box 155, P. 0., North Sydney.
moved into Miss Peters’s mind.
She looked at Miss Frobish.
She was humming the tune of
the Ravel, and looking uncon-
cerned.
A/Tiss Peters followed Miss
ItX F r obish on her next free
night.
It was a tiring business, and
not satisfying. Miss Frobish
sat at the window-table in a
coffee-shop in one of the busier
streets. She sat there for two
hours and drank three cups
of coffee. She didn’t read, as
Miss Peters would have done.
She looked out into the street,
now this way, now that,
watching intently. Miss Peters
was afraid she would be seen*,
She dared not leave the shop-
doorway where she had hidden
herself. She had to wait till
Miss Frobish came out into
the street and walked towards
the tram for home.. Whoever
she had been waiting for hadn’t
come.
Miss Peters looked for a
iaxi. By the time she had found
one and- got home she had
gained very little on Miss
Frobish, to whom it must have
been obvious that she had been
out. “I went for a walk,” said
Miss Peters.
She began to follow Miss
Frobish regularly. She saw her,
sometimes, taking ferry-rides—
apparently for no reason, and
coming back without having
got off. She watched her
wandering through the streets ;
almost, once, she heard her talk-
ing to herself as he walked.
She saw a man in a raincoat
standing ‘ near Miss Frobish
at a street-corner. He seemed
to be listening. She couldn’t
see if he muttered a reply.
She observed the business
with the letter again and again,
watched the conversations with
the postman and the secrecy
with which some letters were
received. They both of them
waited for the postman now,
but Miss Peters never went
out to meet him. She let Miss.
Frobish hold her secret, and
watched her. She noticed that
Miss Frobish wouldn’t leave the
house before the early mail, not
even to run to the shop. She
waited in for it.
Miss Frobish must have
become conscious of Miss
Peters’s interest, because she
began to offer excuses, reasons.
“Such a nice young man to talk
to,” she explained. “Not a
modern young man at all. He
tells me all about his family
and his work. The trouble they
have at the office, sorting things,
dead-letters, and things like
that. It’s really terribly interest-
ing. But perhaps you wouldn't
find it so, Lillian.”
Callers came, and Miss Peters
was quieter than ever, watching
Miss Frobish: the way she
listened to everything, let people
tell her things (quite indiscreet,
personal things sometimes),
took an interest in their jobs and
their troubles, yet never herseif
said anything; nothing that
meant anything, only fluttery
things, helpful, encouraging
things—like punctuation-marks.
Question-marks. Three dots.
And the visitors talked on .. .
Miss Peters knew she was
being silly. The very idea of
“That radio-announcer is a liar. I still feel lousy.”
punctuation-marks suggested
Marx to her, and didn’t make
her laugh. It was ridiculous.
But so many things are
ridiculous, seem ridiculous, are
not ridiculous.
Miss Frobish had never
shown any interest in politics
or economics or anything big
like that, except in so far as
it affected school, or “her
interests.” As she said, a single
woman must have her interests.
But it had been Miss Frobish
who had encouraged Miss
Peters to go on committees, to
become a representative in the
Teachers’ Federation, to do
this and that. It had been Miss
Frobish with whom she had
discussed things, who had
suggested things—even the way
she had vqted. She had never
been influenced by her, of
course; she had known her
own mind, but still —question-
marks, three dots, and the story
goes on, everything happens . . .
"JV/Tiss Frobish knew that
i.VX Mj ss Peters followed her.
She had seen her. She made
it quite clear.
“You didn’t tell me you were
going out,” she said.
Miss Peters put down the
book she had picked up a
quarter-of-an-hour before. “It’s
a free night,” she said. “I
didn’t, though.”
“Oh,” said Miss Frobish,
laughing cleverly. “You must
have a double. Like the
Schubert song.”
“Do you want tea, or are
you going straight to bed?”
“Tea would be nice. I have
to write a letter.”
Miss Peters made tea in the
kitchen. Had to write a letter.
Had to write a letter. Had seen
Miss Peters following and had
to write a letter.
“I’ll post it for you,” said
Miss Peters. “I feel like a
walk.”
“No, thank you,” said Miss
Frobish. “I may want to -add
something later. Sometimes
you think of things in the
night.”
But she had sealed it; written
on the envelope, blotted it,
stamped it and sealed it. Miss
Peters had seen. She hadn't
been quick enough; Miss
Peters had seen from the door-
way.
Miss Frobish went off to bed.
Miss Peters walked to the desk
and lifted the blotter. The
letter was not under it. It was
not in the letter-rack, not in
any of the drawers. She took
the blotter to the mirror and
held it up to it; The blotter
was not much used; Miss
Peters changed it, school-
fashion, every Monday. The
address was quite clear —Kirov.
When she turned from the
mirror she saw that Miss
Frobish was standing near the
door looking at her.
“I thought I’d change the
blotter,” said Miss Peters.
“It's not Monday,” said Miss
Frobish.
“We don’t want to get stuck
in a routine, like school-
ma’ams.”
“Old maids,” said Miss
Frobish* and she giggled.
The next afternoon, when
Miss Frobish had gone to the
store, Miss Peters went to her
room. They did their own bed-
rooms and she hadn't been in
Anne-Marie’s for a long time,
not since she’d had that Cold.
The door was locked.
It never used to be locked.
There had never been any rea-
son. Miss Peters had never
locked her room. The locks
had never worked. She looked
at the lock closely.
She went and looked at the
locks on the other doors.
Anne-Marie’s was a different
type. Anne-Marie’s was a new
lock. There had been plenty of
opportunity; Old Henderson
had come to fix the sink.
Miss Peters wondered what
she should do.
She would follow her once
more.
Miss Frobish had known for
a long time that she was fol-
lowed, but it hadn’t mattered
to her before. She knew that
Miss Peters was a little mad,
but it had been such a thrilling
game . . . Followed!
She had known that her mail
was watched, and she had had
the lock on her door changed.
That was a game, too. But now
she was displeased ... the blot-
ter and the mirror. That was
too obvious, too near
home, too close to one’s pri-
vacy. She would not have old-
maidish tricks intruding in her
{Continued on page 56)


From Abadan to Baghdad
In a “Time and Tide” article quoted
in last week’s Bulletin* John
Connell described the British evacua-
u tion of the Suez Canal Zone in 1954
1 s the point of no-return in Middle East
s olicy, from which flowed the miseries
V Cyprus, Jordan, Suez (1956) and
.'.ebanon.
1 To these he would no doubt now add
laq. Current events in the Middle East
; ive special interest to Connell’s
Wently published The Most Important
s ’ountry (Cassell and Co.), in which he
the events and influences leading
r 3 the Suez crisis of 1956.
Connell remarks that from the moment
Britain replaced the Ottoman Empire
''s the dominant Power in the Middle
■'last, the task of maintaining her rights,
tesponsibilities and interests was com-
plicated, even bedevilled, by the rise of
Egyptian and Arab nationalism and the
Phenomenon of Zionism.
1 Put into cold-storage during the six
_ears of World War 11, the problems of
<he Arab world had not diminished
ither in their danger or their complexity
c /hen the war ended. But other factors
’:ad changed profoundly. Britain’s
tatus as a world Power had altered
and irrevocably and her relations
vith dependent and semi-dependent
v ations in Asia and Africa were about
b undergo radical changes. In addition,
unerica and Soviet Russia had emerged
s two widely contrasting and conflicting
Vorld systems.
* “To make the adjustments necessary
,o meet the new world situation success-
fully, there was needed at the end of
World War II resolute, prudent and far-
righted statesmanship. Britain was not
granted, among her elected leaders at
fhat time, statesmanship of this calibre
7r anywhere near it.”
sentiment and tradition the Labor
party was anti-colonialist and anti-
imperialist. Its members had long talked
>f “the oppression of subject peoples,”
jind the majority of them in 1945 “were
incerely if sillily eager to liquidate the
iritish Empire and to dissolve as quickly
possible all Britain’s imperial connec-
tions.” Confronted with the realities
I>f Arab-Jewish conflict in Palestine, it
withered and dickered for two years and
hen threw in its hand. It is a little
Tonical at this stage to recall that the
\ttiee Government in 1947-48 was “surly
un-co-operative” towards all United
Nations proposals for Palestine. Connell
hinks that a more competent and sym-
pathetic handling of the problem could
iave reached a solution which would
rave avoided the lsraeli-Arab war which
ollowed the British withdrawal. This
lghting gave the Arab League unity in
t common cause —a unity which did not
:xist in any other form —and it also
:aused the exodus of 650,000 Palestinian
\rabs, who have been one of the thorniest
problems of the Middle East ever since.
Tradition and doctrine, handicaps to
tny positive action by a Labor Govern-
ment in the Middle East, tied the hands
of the Attlee Government when Persian
Prime Minister Mossadeq seized the
Abadan oil-refinery in the holy name of
nationalisation. In addition, its humilia-
tion was contributed to by the intrusion,
for the first time, of American interests
in the Middle East. U.S. off-companies
had recently expanded their activities in
the area, particularly in Saudi Arabia,
and it had become a principle of U.S.
policy that if Communist - influence was
to be combated this could best be done
by supporting Arab and Persian
nationalism, and it was accepted that the
chief obstacle to this was Western im-
perialism—especially British imperialism :
The United States moved towards its
assumption of world responsibilities of the
greatest complexity in a mood conditioned
by American history, by the climate of
American opinion, by economic and
strategical necessity. Two of the basic
constant factors in the American outlook
have been a distrustful dislike of imperial-
ism and an unshakable conviction that
American policy and actions not only
should be founded, but always are founded, 1
on the sturdiest and most unquestionable
of moral principles. As with Britain in
her period of world hegemony, this sense
of righteous purpose is often allied to
a capacity ior turning events shrewdly and
toughly to American advantage.
So British influence in Persia vanished
by default; the Anglo-Iranian Oil Co.’s
ownership of the refinery came to an
end, and after a year or so of stagnation
and legal argument Abadan was reopened
by “an international consortium of oil-
companies,” in which Britain had a
minority holding and American com-
panies a dominant position.
A badan set the pattern in due course
for the nationalisation of the Suez
Canal and its demonstration of the bank-
ruptcy of British policy in the Middle
East. Egyptian nationalism did not start
with Nasser, it was Farouk’s Govern-
ment, led by Nahas Pasha, that uni-
laterally abrogated the 1936 Treaty, and
it was a Conservative British Govern-
ment which, having greatly reinforced the
Canal Zone garrison, refrained from
using it to restore order when murder
and pillage broke loose in Cairo in
January, 1952.
Connell says there can be no doubt
that an occupation of metropolitan Egypt
would have been swift and effective, but
he admits that to maintain the occupa-
tion until a stable regime emerged would
have entailed an effort of which the
United Kingdom was no longer capable
and in which she would have been
opposed by much of the Commonwealth,
by America and a great deal of world
opinion.
At the same time the failure to take
action was interpreted by Arab opinion
as evidence of weakness and fear, and it
proved a stimulus to Egyptian self-
esteem and delusions of grandeur. Fol-
lowed the Nasser coup, with Neguib
temporarily installed as a figurehead, to
be discarded as soon as the Nasser regime
felt strong enough to do without him.
It was a Conservative Government, too,
which signed the agreement to evacuate
the Canal Zone—Connell’s point of no-
return —giving as its reasons the changed
strategical problems posed by the
hydrogen-bomb, the entry of Turkey
into Nato, the strain on British man-
power resources and the lack of a
strategic reserve. Britain’s reasons for
leaving the Canal Zone may have been
complex and varied, but the result in
Arab eyes was simple and clear —a»
victory for Arab nationalism, a victory
for Nasser and a further proof that
Western power was a thing of the past.
"Crom then on events moved inevitably
to the crisis of 1956 —and of today.
Russian influence in the Middle East
increased as Soviet arms and Soviet
technicians were poured into Egypt and
Syria. American interest also increased,
as did the supply of American arms and
equipment. Both countries were opposed
to any attempts by Britain. to retain its
influence in the Middle East —Russia for
obvious reasons; America because of
its belief that British “imperialism” was
a barrier to building-up Arab nationalism
as a buffer against Communism.
Nasser played-off Russia against
America for considerable immediate
gain, but seems to have overstepped
himself in using those tactics over the
financing of his projected Aswan High
Dam. Although Nasser used the U.S.
and British withdrawal of their Aswan
loan offer as a pretext for seizing the
Suez Canal, it is dubious whether he ever
had any intention of making an early
start on the scheme. It was this doubt
and the feeling that the money would
be used to buy Russian arms that caused
the two Governments to refuse the loan.
In his speech announcing the “national-
isation” of the canal Nasser said its
revenue would be used to finance the
Aswan High Dam. There is no proof
that a single piastre of canal-dues has
so far been put to that purpose.
Events that followed the seizure of
the canal —the Three-Power talks, the
London conference, the Canal Users’
Association, the Menzies Mission, the
peregrinations of Krishna Menon, the
Israeli-Egyptian war, the Anglo-Fr.ench
intervention, the U.N. proceedings and
the final withdrawal of British and French
forces under pressure from America are
too recent to need recapitulation.
Connell approves the Anglo-French
action and deplores the Gaitskell party’s
reaction to it and their pillorying of Sir
Anthony Eden, but his book is not so
much a defence of the action as an
attempt to give a sober chronicle of
happenings which he feels were inevitable
results of political ineptitude over a long
period; of Arab nationalism, neurotic
and unable to equate ambition with
capacity of Russian opportunism and
of confused American policy, com-
pounded of dogmatic righteousness and
ill-founded assumptions.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YO UR SHOU T!
AND IT 'S
R ED M ILL RUM.
Sydney Horses
Gentle Lu’s two wins at
Warwick Farm, in both of
which she was heavily backed,
were followed by a brilliant
success again with heavy
backing—ln the £l5OO S.T.C.
Winter Handicap at Rosehill
on Saturday. Gregory John
ran his worst race to date, and
stewards asked questions about
the poor run. They accepted
the explanations by jockey E.
Doon and trainer J. fi.. Dono-
hoe. It was Gentle Lu’s second
S.T.C. Winter Handicap. Last
July she ran the seven furlongs
in 1.25 f. The track was a little
damp for Saturday’s sprint, and
she took 1.26 y. In the past
season or two Gentle Lu has
run her best races during the
winter.
Winner of a dozen races, all
bar two of them in the southern
districts of N.S.W., Remsuim
had an easy task in the Second
Parramatta Stakes at Rosehill.
The previous Saturday he had
won in a close finish in a
similar type of race at Canter-
bury, and he got there at Rose-
hill with little effort on his own
part or his rider’s. Ridden
by country jockey F. Mc-
Intyre, he had, in fact, one of
the easiest wins of the after-
noon. The gelding now goes
into open company, and a
Welter could be easy for him.
Costing 300gns. as a yearling,
he was bred at Te Koona,
Wimbledon (N.S.W.), owned by
E. A. Haley Pty., Ltd.—Haley,
of course, races champion
Tulloch. Remberry, dam of
the winner, wasn’t raced. She
is by Double Remove (imp.)
from Blackberry by Constant
Son (imp.).
Randwick trainer Jack Green
supplied 16-to-l winner Pound-
wise in the Rosehill Two-year-
old Graduation Stakes, and
also third-placegetter Woolsack
(much better fancied and
prior-start winner). Woolsack
opened equal-favorite with
Yarrawin, who finished second.
Both Green’s youngsters are
raced by Les Gibson, who won
several good races with
Kingster, including the V.R.C.
Newmarket and the Q.T.C.
Stradbroke. Poundwise is a
filly by Delville Wood (imp.)
from Midwise by Midstream
(imp.).
Luck’s a Fortune —but it
wasn’t for backers of that
Lucky Bag gelding in the Rose-
hill Welter ; he was beaten a
short-head by Dare Say, with
Damaji half-a-head away third.
Trainer of the winner Terry
Brosnan had a lucky week,
winning on the previous Satur-
day at Canterbury with another
comparative outsider, Leukos.
Dare Say had raced only once
since a spell, but he had gal-
loped brilliantly at Randwick
four days before his win.
Former Brisbane apprentice
R. Wilton had the mount,
giving him three winners for
the day. His handling of both
Dare Say and Tranquilette was
outstandingly good. On both
he had to stall-off crack horse-
“This time go in with, a grin—let ’im see ’e ain't hurt y!”
men, McGrowdie and Mulley
respectively. On his /Other
winner, Regence, he had an
easier task. '
Four-year-old Tranquilette
didn’t race at two years and
could be all the better for that.
She has now won half-a-dozen
events for Randwick trainer
Baden Hasler, two from
last three starts. The mare
does best under a light weight,
and in each of her two latest
wins she has been helped by
a 71b. allowance. Even so,
she only just got there on
Saturday, beating Woodland
Stream by half-a-head, with
Queensbeny third. Raced by
Mrs. Hasler and A. H. Wright,
Tranquilette is a staying type
by Howe (1948 Moonee Valley
Cup) from Tranquil Queen.
When they came back after
the running of the First Parra-
matta Stakes at Rosehill
runner-up Sales Boy towered
over the winner, Shamrock,
who wouldn’t go much more
than 14.3 hands. Sales Boy,
huge by comparison, made a
gallant attempt to win the
sprint first-up after a spell of
seven months. Shamrock,
trained by C. L. Sheil for
P. C. Bell, is by Jambo (imp.)
from Vestal Maid by Nizami
(imp.), and, like the last-named,
is a grey.
Tartan Boy, surprise winner
of the Albion Park Two-year-
old Handicap on Saturday, is
a gelded son of One Up
(imp.) and Rosie Boote.
Related to former notables
Reading, David and Journal,
he was bred at the Lyndhurst
Stud, Warwick (Q.). Rosie
Boote is by High Title from
Chubee by Chatham. One Up
has sired many Queensland
winners. He won races in the
best company both here and
in England.
—and Caulfield
Rather late in what has been
a poor season for jumping-
horses, Melbourne racing has
discovered a young hurdler of
real promise—the four-year-
old Black Pampas gelding Red
Pampas. Having only his third
start in a jumping race, he won
the Leamington Hurdle at
Caulfield last Saturday by 15
lengths. In past seasons this
race has been regarded as a
reliable guide to the Australian
Hurdle —King Rheo won the
double last year—and the field
Red Pampas defeated included
all the fancied Australian
Hurdle entrants except Hay-
don’s Day.
Red Pampas is a natural
jumper. As a three-year-old
he won a brush-hurdle race in
Tasmania, and at his only other
start over the sticks he finished
a creditable fourth in the
Keilor Hurdle at Flemington a
fortnight ago. With only 9.2
he looks an outstanding chance
in the Australian Hurdle. Theo
Lewis trains Red Pampas—it
isn’t often the veteran Fleming-
ton mentor handles a jumping
horse.
* • • •
Although the field he de-
feated wasn’t a good one, the
nine-year-old Solar Bear geld-
ing Raebralos moved up
sharply in Australian Steeple
discussions after a good stay-
ing performance in the 2 miles
3 furlongs Redleap Steeple-
chase. Ten lengths from the
lead over the last jump, Rae-
bralos finished with such dash
that he had three lengths to
spare on the line. The extra
nine furlongs of the Australian
Steeplechase will not trouble
him, particularly if the going
is holding—like all the Solar
Bear stock he prefers the sting
out of the ground. Raebralos
is a recent addition to Kevin
Lafferty’s Warrnambool stable.
Lafferty has had extraordinary
success with jumping horses
over the past decade, and he
has set Raebralos for the Aus-
tralian Steeple. However, it
might pay to remember that
Pedro’s Pride and Redfield
represent different class from
the field Raebralos defeated
on Saturday.
• • • •
Most significant run at Caul-
field came from an unplaced
horse —Sir Blink’s first-up fast-
finishing fourth in the First
Turf Club Handicap over Si-
furlongs gave notice that the
Blue Coral colt is Victoria’s
best hope in next season’s
Derbys. Sir Blink’s good
autumn form earned him the
steadier of 10.1 against the
moderate field on Saturday,
but he’d have won with another
half-furlong to go. Sydney will
see Sir Blink in the spring—
his programme includes the
Rosehill Guineas and the
A.J.C. Derby. He’s a really
good colt, as he showed when
he won the mile Ferndale
Handicap at Flemington last
May with 9.8. The Derby
distance won’t bother him. His
sire, Blue Coral, won three
races over two miles in Eng-
land. His dam, Inky, related
to Rising Fast, was herself a


Divorce Notices
(IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
>TO LINDSAY MERVYN SILLS late of
iCoalcliff in the State of New South
Wales—TAKE NOTICE that IVY EDNA
SILLS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1455 of 1958 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse
tfor three year 6 and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Mint Build-
ing Macquarie Street Sydney by the
|22nd day of September 1958 and obtain
a copv of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. MADDOCKS COHEN A
(MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 38 Martin Place,
(Sydney. —.T. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
,T 0 STANLEY GORDON ELSON for-
merly of 54 Alfred Road West Croydon
but address now unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife JULIA LESLEY
.ELSON has commenced Divorce Proceed-
ings against you in the Supreme Court
;of Western Australia on the grounds of
.desertion for a continuous period of
.three (3) years of more If you desire
to defend such proceedings you must
tile your defence in the Central Office of
the Supreme Court at Perth in the State
lof Western Australia within forty (40)
.days from the date of publication of
this notice In default of your so doing
the case may proceed and the Court will
(pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. —-DATED
this 14th day of July, 1958. —I. E.
SIIILLINGTON, Acting Registrar.
'ood galloper ; her wins
deluded the 11-furlongs Rangi-
iki Cup in N.Z., where the
olt was bred.
• • • •
The First Turf Club Handi-
ap was won by Gaybern, who
dded to the run of successes
h Melbourne by Riverina
torses. Young Ray Higgins
—who can ride, despite the
eception he got on a recent
/isit to Sydney —had the mount
bn Gaybern, a nice-looking
■ihestnut gelding by Gay Saint
Tom Bernalow. Gaybern’s
Liverina form was good, and
before the class gets stronger
ie may wm again in Mel-
bourne.
J.. . .
< Webster, with his win in the
jSecond Turf Club Handicap,
made it five in a row. Oddest
feature was his price; the
books gave 9 to 2, and were
itill offering 7 to 2 at barrier-
ise. Possibly his big weight
(—even with young Wakker
claiming 51b. he carried 9.8 —
jivas responsible for the gener-
ous odds, but Webster is a
jbig, well-made gelding, and he
bandied the burden with ease.
|No doubt Webster would be
up to spring' class, but Men-
tone trainer Charlie Wilson has
preferred to keep him racing
while he holds his form, a
decision no doubt influenced
by the fact that Webster’s dam,
Melorna, is not in the stud-
book, which, of course, bars
her progeny from the classics.
( Webster, by the imported Blue
(Booklet, is aptly named after
the dictionary.
First heat of the six-furlongs
Kambrook Handicap at Caul-
field was New Zealand all the
way—the winner, Young
Idealist (by Sabsean from
Young Margaret), was bred in
.N.Z., is still owned there by
R. Dailey, and Was ridden by
N.Z. jockey Keith Nuttall.
Young idealist did his first
Australian racing in Sydney
last spring, when he was rated
a challenger to Tulloch follow-
ing outstanding form in N.Z.,
where he won four races. A
failure in Sydney, he was
brought to Melbourne last
autumn and won twice. Con-
tinuing his travels, he was
sent to Adelaide, but in two
starts ran badly. Obviously,
he likes the Melbourne climate.
He won the Kambrook under
difficulties, having to force a
rails run over the last half-
furlong. Nuttall again showed
that he has little to learn from
local riders.
Bookmakers on the course
did well over the success of
Prince Judicate in the mile
Lillimur Handicap for two-
year-olds, but any books
operating in Bendigo probably
had a bad result over the race.
The Judicate colt is owned by
C C. Taylor, vice-chairman of
the Bendigo Jockey Club, is
trained by Sailor’s Guide’s
mentor, George Daniel (also
of Bendigo), and was ridden
by Daniel’s apprentice, L. Har-
bridge. The colt has been
lightly raced, and might do
well in staying events. His
dam, Sweet Linnet,, produced
the good filly Orient, winner
of the Queensland Oaks.
* * *
England's Test
The England Rugby
Leaguers’ annihilation of the
Australian side, 40-17, in the
deciding Test at Sydney Cricket
Ground last Saturday con-
clusively dissolved any where-
fors left hanging in the air
after the other two the
locals’ easy-looking 25-8 win
in the first, in Sydney, and the
invaders’ 25-17 victory in the
Brisbane Test, with their five-
eighth off (injured) practically
from the start, ahd their skipper,
Prescott, after the same early
bit of mayhem, gamely staying
on-field throughout with a
broken arm.
Simply, in the first Test the
Englanders were evidently no-
where near concert-pitch, and
had not yet become a team:
they should never have lost a
match on this tour.
On Saturday they played
grandly as a team and won as
they liked all the way. They
were a mile stronger and faster
in their forwards and incom-
parably cleverer and more co-
operative in their backs. At
least a quartet of their big men
—Terry, Whiteley, Huddart,
Karalius —moved as fast as
backs; Sullivan, with his three
tries, was a polished and
brilliant winger; Murphy,
splendid in the Brisbane Test,
was dazzling again.
Their defence altogether was
as sound and rugged as the
opposition’s was often disas-
trously weak, and many of their
attacking moves were the con-
structive sort of penetrating
you expect from a classy League
side. They wrote “had it” on
the numbers of sundry of the
opposition.
Conditions couldn’t have
been better for the all-round
brisker side. Sunny, with the
sun and wind in their favor at
the start, and spring in the
turf.
After a preliminary bit of
skirmishing the score was
quickly 5-0, from a move started
by forward McTigue and
typically finished-off by Ashton
and Southward. From then on
it was a matter of the invaders’
tally regularly mounting
through constructive football,
with the home side getting a
score now and then more from
spasm than design, though
Holman’s individualist try was
well above that classification.
At half-time the score read
14-12, but, except wishfully,
nobody present could have felt
it that way.
Then, after battling really
well for a while in the second
half, the locals started to look
ragged, what time the invaders
made it 30-12, and on to the
washout 40-17.
Though it’s no great com-
pliment, anyhow, what strength
the home side still had seemed
to ooze out altogether following
a couple of kindergarten
decisions by referee Casey, after
the more palpable of which
the Hill mob expressed a
measure of disapproval and
disparagement by launching
towards Mr. Casey a barrage
of oranges, bottles and other
guided missiles. Whether, as
far as the refereeing was con-
cerned, this outbreak should
go into the records as unethical
conduct or fair comment might
be open to debate, but cer-
tainly the players, on both sides,
had reason to complain—the
bottles, without exception, were
empty. However, one or two
of the English had a go at the
oranges, no doubt as better
than nothing at that thirsty
stage of their walkover.
As well as Sullivan’s three
tries, Murphy, Southward,
Terry, Whiteley and Davies
each went over for England,
and Fraser landed eight goals.
For the losers, tries each by
Provan, Holman and Hawick,
and four goals to Clifford.
The crowd was the size the
bright day and the generally
bright play deserved. As Eng-
land captain Prescott, having
the afternoon off nursing his
broken wing and doing a spot
of onlooker - broadcasting for
the A.8.C., was heard to put it,
in good, slow, broad, emphatic
English: “Quite a big crowd—•
twenty-nine thousand five-
hundred and forty - eight
pounds.”
That was the dough, all
right: the customers totalled
68,720.
* * *
In a ragged game not up
to usual inter-State Rugby
Union standard and marred by
too much “whistle,” Queens-
land defeated N.S.W. 10-6 at North
Sydney Oval; the Northerners led
5-3 at half-time.
N.S.W. selectors chose only
those available for the tour of
N.Z.—though that ruled out only
three or four, some of whom may
not have made the State team any-
way—while Queensland included
several internationals unavailable
for the tour. Each side crossed
twice, with Queensland’s 1958
Rhodes Scholar, Tom Baxter, later
selected in the team to tour N.Z.,
kicking two good goals, for the
winning, difference. ihe Light
Blues “bombed” a couple of cer-
tain tries, and on the whole did
not play with anywhere near the
thrust and force of N.S.W. teams
of the past.
In the early game N.S.W. II
overwhelmed Victoria 40-14;
N.S.W. held a narrow 10-8 half-time
lead, but, assisted slightly by a
cross-wind, ran at will in the
second half.
Last Wednesday, at Manly Oval,
Queensland just beat Victoria
17-14; a penalty-goai kicked by
Baxter after the bell won the match
for Queensland.
The selectors sprang a few sur-
prises in the team for N.Z.
Wallaby skipper Davidson has been
passed right over, though he played
and led N.S.W. well on Saturday.
Captain of the side is Queensland
breakaway Wilson. On the whole
the team is youthful and inexperi-
enced, and looks like it will find
the going a bit tough against the
mighty All Blacks.
* * *
The V.F.L. resumed on
Saturday after the two-week
carnival break—when, accord-
ing to most fans, there was “no
football.” Melbourne remained
on top of the table by easily
defeating Geelong 16.22-12.12,
though the Cats, 68 points
down at threequarter-time, did
pile-on 7.7 in the last quarter.
Collingwood stayed in second
place after overcoming a stiff
hurdle, Hawthorn at home,
14.9-12.14 ; ’Wood had to come
from behind with a dazzling
last quarter. Fitzroy is still in
third place, even though, in an


THE “WILD CAT” <
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
Refute the gmd times aiieacf-wfrti
Kodak's world-famous camera
"v.
■.> ' '
*■*'? :&
OH
x ?llllpS
im
sr> V.
*V
> vvsxsz
HASH !L «*»
PRICE only 13 3'y
Here's the Camera that Mum, Dad and Junior can all use . . .
easily . . . successfully! The Brownie Flash II Camera has a
high quality Kodet lens to give you a sparkling, detailed picture
every time you press the button. Portraits are easy, too . . .
as dose up as 5 feet.
Take pictures day or night by FLASH with the
BROWNHE FLASH 1 CAMERA OUTFIT
For its Golden Jubilee Year, Kodak proudly
presents this big value outfit comprising latest
Brownie Flash II Camera, new Brownie
Flasholder, flashbulbs, batteries, Kodak Film,
complete instructions. Price £5/10/-.
LOAD YOUR CAMERA WITH
m%
m
% J f #
m
mm
a*
!
y?>YX
'
Branches ii
KODAK (AUSTRALASIA) PTY., LTD.,
All States KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
N - KMMB
upset, the Lions were chewed-
up by the usually meek-and-
mild Swans, 19.6-11.22 —it
was only South’s third win of
the year. As the result of
Hawthorn’s defeat, North, by
virtue of defeating Carlton in
a dull game 8.9-6.9, re-enters
the four. Essendon, in top
form and with complete run
of the play, gave St. Kilda,
which once had final-four
hopes, its fifth successive
defeat, 17.30-8.9; and Foot-
scray donged Richmond
14.12-2.11 —the Tigers had
kicked almost the same kitten
score, 2.9, against Carlton a
few weeks back.
* * *
“Rossby”:' Only two Austra-
lian Rules footballers have
been picked in three “all-
Australian” teams (which are
chosen after each carnival).
Both have something else in
common—the same name,
Jack Clarke. One is the Essen-
don (V.F.L.) centreman, the
other the East Fremantle
(W.A.) ruckman and winner
of the 1957 Sandover Medal;
both have won their Australian
blazers at the last three carni-
vals N . Four of the 1956 Aus-
tralian team w'ere selected
again this year —Whitten and
Barassi (V.F.L.), W.A.’s
Farmer (winner of the 1956
Sandover, he played a great
game against Victoria at this
year’s carnival), and Abley,
S.A.’s lone representative in
the 1958 side.
* * *
“Wilkie”: Claremont, which
(at writing) has won only one
game out of 12 in this year’s
Westralian footy, is rebuilding
with a view to a premiership
win in a few years’ time.
Young players from the junior
grades are being given their
chance in League company, so
that experienced heads on
young shoulders can carry the
club to success. The club has
engaged Jack Pross, a disciple
of Herb Elliott’s coach, Percy
Cerutty, to teach the lads
running technique and advise
on diet. Pross has used these
principles to build the Mel-
ville athletic club into a.
powerful body. Another club-
lecturer is an officer from the
police traffic-branch—he’s put-
ting the lads through the course
on “concentration” given to
the motor-cycle patrolmen.
Australia began well at the
Empire Games, winning three
of the first seven gold-medals
decided, as well as two silver-
medals. Dave Power, Australian
six-mile champion, won that
race in Games-record time
(28min. 47.85ec.). The other
early gold-medals were for two
swimming relay events—the
women’s 4 x 110yds. freestyle
(in world-record time) and the
men’s 4 x 220yds. freestyle.
Two Australians suffered
unexpected defeats though
neither actually was 100 per
cent. fit. “Cnilta” Porter,
runner-up to American negro
Charlie Dumas at the 1956
Olympic Games, was again
runner-up (6ft. Sin.) to
Jamaica’s Ernie H a i s 1 e y
(6ft. 9in.). At the Melbourne
Olympics Porter had got to
6ft. 10|in. Hec. Hogan, Aus-
tralian national 100yds. cham-
pion for the last seven suc-
cessive years, didn’t qualify for
the 100yds. final, which was
won by Gardner, also of
Jamaica. At the 1954 Empire
Games Hogan had also been
rated almost a cert, for the
sprint, but ran only third.
* * *
Bruce Devlin, from Goul-
burn, landed the N.S.W.
amateur golf championship,
defeating more - experienced
Harry Berwick four and three.
In his semi-final Devlin turned
the tables on Barry Warren,
who defeated him iri the Aus-
tralian championship final last
year. By winning the N.S.W.
title Devlin probably clinched
himself a berth in the Aus-
tralian side to play in England
later in the year.


start the dau right!
M
1
UWO' hC
*v
VIH?
«eM2
GUARD.
Ca&k/
as
PROTECTA
1
Suitable for every type of business il records
ail Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send fur lull details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing-Agent*-*
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE. «
PERTH •
Vf. C. Penfold Si Co. Pty. Ltd.
. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd*
, Vardon Price* Ltd.
, Docket Book Co. lAusO
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy a copy of Will Ogilvie’s
Fair Girls and Grey Horses. —6731.
Information Sought
What were the Epistles of Peter ?
There are extant two short letters
of the Nevy Testament, widely
differing in style and character.
Modern critics consider the first
one to be spurious, though it was
accepted as genuine by the early
Church. No alternative author-
ship has been established, though it
is believed this letter was known
to the writer of the second one.
The first letter is generally sup-
posed to have been written from
Rome, a.d. 64. The second letter,
which is thought to be a product
of the 2nd century, was regarded
by early writers, including Origen
and Eusebius, as of doubtful
authenticity, and. it only gained its
place in the Canon with consider-
able difficulty. Its Petrine author-
ship is hardly accepted by any
critics today, who regard its
resemblance as closer to Jude.
* * * *
What is meant by the rococo style
in an ?
It is a style (which also applies
to architecture) developed from the
Renaissance period, and is pecu-
liarly French. To all intents and
purposes it is equivalent to the
Baroque—that is, a style that
depends for its effects on profusion
of florid ornamentation.
* * * •
Some details of Australian
pioneer Ben Boyd ?
Born in Scotland about 1796, he
became a stockbroker in London,
and about 1840 floated the Royal
Bank of Australia, of which
debentures worth £200,000 were
sold. This sum was taken to Aus-
tralia- by Boyd (as the bank’s
representative). In his yacht the
Wanderer, Boyd reached Port Jack-
son on July 18, 1842. Four other
vessels belonging to him had come
out earlier. In 1843 he opened
a branch of his bank in Sydney,
and in 1844 he was described by
Sir George Gipps as one of the
largest squatters in Australia; he
held large areas of land in the
Monaro, the Riverina, Port Phillip
district and along the Murray.
Within a year or two he had
founded the twin townships of
Boyd Town and East Boyd on
Twofold Bay (N.S.W.), and had
nine whalers working from there.
In 1847 he began shipping natives
from the Pacific islands, for cheap
labor, but the scheme failed. Then
he lost two lawsuits for the
“Millinery to the left, ma'am!”
insurance-money on one of his
vessels which had been wrecked,
and ran into serious financial diffi-
culties; his schemes were considered
too grandiose for Australia as it
then was. Boyd was removed from
control of his bank, and he had
to abandon his Boyd Town plans.
In 1849 he sailed to California,
unsuccessfully worked on the gold-
diggings there, and in June, 1851,
set-off for a voyage among the
Pacific islands. The last time he
was seen alive w'as when he went
ashore on October 15, 1851, at the
Solomon Islands. It seems most
likely that he was killed soon after
he landed. (Information from the
Australian Encyclopedia.)
* * * *
What is the Salic Law ?
It was the code of laws intro-
duced into France by Clovis, c. 500
and republished by Charlemagne
in 798. By it women were pro-
hibited from inheriting land—a
principle applied in- 1316 to the
succession to the French throne.
Twelve years later Edward of Eng-
land and his successors contested
the application; and their claims td
the throne of France, based on
their interpretation of the law,
resulted in the Hundred Years’ War.
By the operation of the law in
Hanover, that country was separ-
ated from England when Victoria
ascended the throne in 1837,
* *\ * *
Will bottled wine improve with
keeping ?
Any improvement will depend
upon the quality of the wine, as
some wines age better than others.
Wine softens in the bottle and
throws either soft or crust -deposit,
which necessitates gentle handling
so as not to disturb the crust. Some
wines show improvement over years,
others reach their peak in a few
years and then the quality declines.
The wariety of grape, the district
from which it came, and the
climatic conditions which existed in
the year the wine was made, are all
contributary causes.
* * * •
(1) What is the source of the
Hawkesbury River, which empties
into the ocean at Barenjoey, north
of Sydney? (2) Its length?
(1) Thd" river has its source at
the southern end of Lake George,
in the Mulwaree Ponds. This
creek runs north to join the
Wollondilly slightly north of Goul-
burn, and under the latter name
traverses deep gorges (of which
Burragorang is the best known) in
the ranges west of Berrima and
Picton, until it receives the Cox
River from the Blue Mountains.
Thence known as the Warragamba,
it flows through another gorge into
the Nepean, takes that name, and
then proceeds north-east past Pen-
rith and the Emu Plains to join
the Grose. From the junction with
this river it is known as the
Hawkesbury, passing Richmond
and Windsor to enter the drowned
estuary at Broken Bay. These
various portions of the river were
discovered and named before their
connection was known. (2) Three-
hundred and thirty-five miles.
* * * *
Is it in order for the chairman
of a meeting to accept an unlimited
number of amendments to a given
motion before proceeding to obtain
a vote from the meeting ?
The amendment may be moved
by anyone speaking on the. motion
and must be seconded before the
chairman can permit further discus-
sion. Then discussion on the point
raised by the amendment proceeds
(it must not be a direct negative),
but no fresh matter can be intro-
duced. - Ihe chairman then reads
out the original motion, and puts
the amendment to the vole. If this
amendment is defeated, the chair-
man asks for further
and goes through the same pro-'
cedure. If an amendment is
carried it becomes the motion and
is put. Alter that no further
amendments can be put before the
meeting.
» * * *
Biographical details of the artist
Whistler ?
James Abbott McNeill Whistler
was a distinguished American
painter and etcher,, born at Lowell,
Massachusetts, in 1834. He settled
in Chelsea, England, in 1863. His
best-known paintings include the
portrait of his mother (now in the
Luxembourg, Paris), the portraits
of Carlyle and Miss Alexander, and
his “Nocturnes.” He brought a
libel action against Ruskin in 1878
for condemning his “The Falling
Rocket,” and was awarded a
farthing damages. He published
The Gentle Art of Making Enemies
in 1890. Whistler exerted an
immense influence on the art of his
day. His Life, by E. R. and J
Pennell; was published in 1908;
another biography, by James Laver,
appears in the Penguin serie.s. He
died in 1903
* * <i *
Some details of the Walter and
Eliza Hall Institute ?
Founded in 1916 and financed
by the trust fund left by Melbourne
businessman Walter Russell Hall
(1831-1911) and his wife. Eliza
Rowdon Hall (1847-1916), its
establishment was due, in the main,
.to Sir Harry Brookes Allen, then
Professor of at Mel-
bourne University. He saw the need
for providing clinical laboratories
at Melbourne Hospital and for a
place where research-work could
be undertaken. Members of the
trust controlling the money left
by Mrs. Hall readily agreed to


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Ix Divouck.
TO RAYMOND AUGUSTUS MILLAR
address unknown, formerly of 874 Rath-
mines Street, Eairfield, Victoria,—TAKE
NOTICE that DELMA MILLAR has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2099 of
1958 on the ground of desertion If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce’ Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 23rd day of September
1958 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from C. W. ROBINSON,
Solicitor, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT HE NEW
SOUTH WALES — lx Divorcr.
TO BERTRAM PATRICK WILLIAMS
late of 7 Harley Street Miranda in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that IRIS LIZZIE ESTHER
WILLIAMS lias filed a Petition for
Divorce No., 5 5 of 1957 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
24th September 1958 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MITCHELL GEE WILSON Sc CLAPIN,
Solicitors, of 92 Pitt Street, Sidney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friends
WOULD anv person knowing the whe re-
al.outs- of ALBERT JOHN COPE, for-
merly care of the G.P.0., Brisbane,
please communicate with the EQUITY
TRUSTEES CO., 472 Bourke Street,
Melbourne ?
EDWARD BEALE, formerly of Mal-
langanee, N.S.W., brother of MAURICE
BEALE, deceased, late of Woodenbong,
or anyone knowing his address, please
communicate with the undersigned.—
R. M. JONES, Solicitor, Kyogle.
Collectors
Australian in London ran supply col-
lectors with service medals and decora-
tions from 1793, British and Foreign;
also badges, antique pistols, swords and
all types of inilitaria, including Na/.i
items. For list write to BM/lfiOMAf),
London, W C.l, stating particular in-
terest. Dealers’ inquiries invited.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
• f
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, ’’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.: \ year— £l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques .
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
provide the funds for such w’ork,
a contribution, which has continued
since 1920, and which is still vir-
tually the institute’s only permanent
source of income. Support, how-
ever, • also comes from the 1
Commonwealth Government, the
Rockefeller Foundation and other
trusts. In 1944 Sir Frank Macfar-
lane Burnet became direcror in
succession to Dr. C. H. Kellaway,
director for the previous 20 years
and under whom the work of the
institute expanded greatly; under
Burnet, who received the Order
ol Merit in the last Queen’s Birth-
day honors, it has been further
greatly enlarged. In recent years
a lot of notable work has been
done in the investigation of virus
diseases. The institute publishes
an annual report and occasional
monographs.
Brief Answers
G.S.: The text of Beethoven’s
only opera, “Fidelio,” which is
included in this season’s repertoire
of the Elizabethan Theatre Trust,
is in two acts and is set in Spain.
It is from the French of Bouilly
by Sonnleithner... .A.H.: Amilcare
Ponchielli (1834-86) is best known
for his opera “La Gioconda,” first
produced at La Scala in 1876. He
wrote several other operas, includ-
ing “I promessi Sposi,” ‘T Liluani”
and “II Figliuol prodigo,” but only
“La Gioconda” has been successful
outside Italy V.S. According to
figures released by the Common-
wealth Statistician last February,
the population of Australia had
reached 9.689,939 at Seotember 30,
1957....T.R.: Yes. On Feb. 14
this year King Feisal of Iraq and
King Hussein of Jordan signed an
agreement federating their two
countries. King Feisal heads the
Federation, but both he and King
Hussein also retain their separate
titles. The two countries now have
joint defence and joint foreign
policy.... 8.5.: The International
Geophysical Year began on July 1,
1957, but is still in progress. Its
duration is actually 18 months, and
it will finish at the end of this
year. The full story of 1.G.Y., its
aims, etc., is told in Ronald
Fraser’s Once Round the Sun
(reviewed on the Red Page
23/10/’57)... .D.K.C.: Will in-
quire, and if possible include, but
don’t think long-range weather
records extend to Tasmania....
R.WF: (1) In 1752 West Riding
(Eng.) manufacturers petitioned
the British Parliament to prohibit
the use of tar for marking sheep,
and the question has often recurred
since then. (2) The usual practice in
branding sheep is to mark on the
back. Ear-clipping, face-marking
and horn-marking are not so
readily practicable methods of
identifying animals. (3) General
requirements of a fluid for marking
sheep are—permanence, legibility,
stability, cost, and ease of removal.
(4) Enable to trace... .L.Y.: See
Canberra, a Nation’s Capital,
edited by H. L. White (1954), which
provides a comprehensive survey
of the development of Canberra
since its foundation, and of the
city’s planning and growth....
D.M.: The phrase “To pile Pelion
on Ossa” derives from Greek
mythology and the Odyssey. The
.litans, in their war against
Jupiter, piled Mt. Pelion on top
ol 600011. Ossa, a mountain in
Thessaly, in older to reaen the
heavens L.T.S.: “Ga’ canny”
is a term meaning deliberately to
slow-down work as a'passive term
of sabotage P.F.P.: The Scribes
were a class, of Jewish official who
were expert interpreters of the
Torah, .or ecclesiastical law. They
gradually became distinct from the
priests, and were noted 'in Ne.v
Testament times for their sophism.
The duty of the Scribes was umited
to explaining the law; the Pharisees
put it into practice.... F.A.: The
argonaut, also called the paper-
nautilus, is a mollusc akin to the
octopus, but is not closely related
to the true nautilus, which it
resembles in the external shape of
the shell secreted by the female.
.... J.D.: Both sulphate of
ammonia and nitrate of soda can
be combined with farmyard manure
for use on citrus trees, but it is
inadvisable to apply either of these
fertilisers when the fruit is
approaching maturity. The yearly
dressing should be divided into
four parts and applied in July,
October, December and February,
while for early-maturing varieties
a combination of the December
and February dressings, applied
late in December, is the best
■R.W.C.: In estimating the number
of words in a manuscript count the
number of wxrrds in several lines.;
then, by dividing the number of
words by the number of lines, you
strike the average number of words
per line. Multiply the number of
words per line by the number of
lines in a page (counting the short
lines as full ones) and then by the
number of pages G.L.: The
only possibility of a pullet going
broody without laying eggs is when
the egg-yolks have fallen into the
abdominal cavity instead of pass-
ing through the oviduct. This
would be due to some abnormality.
. ...N.L.: Information unobtain-
able F.Y.: Squeaking is some-
times caused by friction and some-
times by lack of mellowness of the
outer sole; if the shoes have been
made by the welted process, a felt
filling between the sole and the
insole should remedy the trouble.
... JF.M.C.: Randwick racecourse
has * a circumference of approxi-
mately one mile and three furlongs.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntar: y
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they-will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that tney may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
Lilly X: If she kissed him when
she was raging-mad at him it
wasn’t, as you suggest, because
she was “absent-minded”; she was,
according to our experience, just
plumb 10c0... .B.V'.P.': Your
bodgies are all tainted with the
Y.M.C.A D.D.L.: Stories written
as letters should bear the stahip of
originality C.W.: “She stopped,
struck by a sudden thought....”
She was that sort, wasn’t she —the
litue she could think would be
enough to stop her? ... .N.F.0.:
You trying to work something?
Your story is all right on the sur-
face, but underneath it’s all Left.
. ...H.S.T.: Not bad, but not
quite P.P.: When robots really
start to function your mechanical
characters will come into their own.
L.K.: Liked the bright writing,
but there’s no action and no
situation G.M.C.: Not a
chance L.L.: You've a long way
to go G.W.J.: Beery ballads
admirable for local consumption.
... .R.L.0.R.: We noted them....
R.H.B'.: “Though perhaps little
better than doggerel,' they do give
voice.” They do....H.lndig-
nant but inelegant... .Marella: “In
submitting this sample I feel like
a mother throwing her pet child
to the lions.” We devoured it
eagerly, t 00.... W.G.W.: Your
poem on “Adam and Eve” was sub-
mitted. to the Religious Editor,
whose comment upon it is unprint-
able ... .N.C.S.: Some fresh images
in “Day’s End” R.M.C.: Your
light will have to stay under the
bushel, but it was pleasant to learn
that in your newspaper they are
still saying, “A good Lime was had
by aH’.’ M.C.: Too long, too
1005 e... .D.T.: We shall reluciantly
have to decline first serial-rights
to “The Daughter of Tobagannon.”
. ...W.J.Q.: Here you go, thep:
TRIBUTE TO HENRY LAWSON.
Jfo more the scenes are there to view,
Those scenes so well that Lawson knew;
Gone the wattle, gone the hrooni,
Remaining, fairly a few.
. ...D.8.H.: There's a certain
charm in “Did Gran,” but “droning
insects catch her ear” might have
been more happily expressed
I. That’s a very short thought
on so large a convolution of the
earth.. . .EG.: There’s something
in it; but what sort of crow has
a yellow beak? ... .E. 8.: Too
slight R.W.Y.: Rather vague
advice, isn’t it? J.P.S.t The
old sheep-farmer’s not too bad; the
other fearful... .J.V.S.: The only
really good line is the one you’ve
borrowed from Francis Thompson.
. ...D.G.K.: They’re stiff
J. It's rolling home J.W.:
The experts on fish are Rupert
Brooke and John Blight....
M.8.C.: Tut W.R.8.; Your
swaggie plods *on heavy feet....
A.P.Z.: it’s the old-fashioned
language, the worn poetic,
“fray,” “domain,” “oft,.” “sprite.”


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SOVIET ECONOMIC WAR
HThe Soviet as it sees itself, as
described by David J.
Dallin in The Problems of
Communism:
“At the roots of recent Soviet
foreign policy in general lies
the Kremlin’s conviction that
the era of American
supremacy has passed and
the era of Soviet world leader-
ship has arrived. Over the ages
one great Power has succeeded
another as the dominant
influence in the" community
of nations Greece yielded
place to Rome; Spain to
Britain, and Britain to the
United States the dominant
n&tion losing its supremacy to
a younger and more vigorous
successor.
“The Soviets are now con-
vinced that the United States,
having taken over, at the end
of World War 11, the position
held by Britain,* is now, afte’-
little more than a decade of
supremacy, forced to vacate the
presidial chair in favor a
Power whose ascendancy would
be tantamount to the triumph
of Socialism over capitalism.
“The Russians have repeat-
edly asserted that the Soviet
Union, not the United States,
was the first country to build
an atomic plant, and the same
claim is made with respect to
the conquest of space —‘the very
fact that the first Socialist
nation of the world was the
first country to break the way
into the cosmos signifies a new
era in the evolution of man-
kind.’
“The Soviet Union, Moscow
claims, has outstripped the
United States in science. Soviet
missiles, says Moscow, are
larger and travel farther than
American missiles, and Soviet
superiority in conventional as
well as modern weapons is not
disputed. The press also boasts
that in music and the arts
Soviet performance ‘is admired
all over the world,’ and'the suc-
cesses of Soviet artistic groups
abroad are triumphantly
reported. It is claimed since the
last Olympic games that the
Soviet Union occupies first
place in sports.
“In only one field, the
economic, does the Soviet
Government and its press
acknowledge American
superiority. But even here
Soviet victory ‘is not far away 2
The drive to ‘catch up with and
outdo America in a fqw years
in production of meat, butter
and milk’ is on, and the
Government tries to convince
the Russian population that it
will win the race. In regard
to all other goods, Khrushchev
says:
“ ‘We will achieve a higher
per capita production of co'n-
sumer-goods than in the
advanced capitalist countries.
We are making our calculations
now, and say that riot much
time will pass before we will
clear the highest barrier of
capitalist countries, and will
surpass the level of production
in the United States of America.
What will you say then, gentle-
men?’
“The ‘imperialists’ in the
United States, say the Soviets,
are desperately trying to catch
up with the Soviet Union and
regain first place; but their
efforts are in vain, for in every
field Soviet superiority will
grow and grow and grow.
According to Khrushchev:
“‘The Soviet Union will not
stand still while they are catch-
ing up. We will not sit and
sip tea. We, too, will be doing
something so that we shall not
be overtaken. So such a fool-
hardy policy of the imperialists
can lead only to an endless
armaments-race with ail its
ensuing consequences.’
“To one familiar with the
real situation in both countries,
the prospect of a hitherto back-
ward nation like the U.S.S-R-
-emerging in the near future as
the leader of world civilisation
appears fantastic. Yet Moscow
definitely holds this conviction,
and it is a factor of major
importance in our time^
“Khrushchev himself no
doubt believes what he says
about Soviet superiority over
the West. To this clever, able,
but primitive man, who has had
a meteoric rise to power, and
who has been unbelievably
successful in his inner-party as
well as foreign-political opera-
tions, there would be nothing
miraculous in the emergence of
his country as the Demiurge of
the Universe.”
Also commenting on the
economic offensive, London
“Economist” points out that,
“ruling a third of mankind, the
Communist States today form
a powerful economic group
acting in growing concert in
their trade relations with'the
outside world”:
“Their total industrial stature
is comparable to that of
Western Europe; in primary
resources they are incompar-
ably richer ; and they are con-
trolled by a few powerful men
who can use their commerce
and finance as weapons in their
political crusade.
“In Syria and Egypt the
combination of credits, trade
and deals in arms has helped
to win the Soviet Union a
bridgehead in the Middle East.
In India, Russian construction-
engineers are giving tangible
proof of their industrial
prowess. In the Sudan, in
Ceylon, in Burma, crops have
been bartered at timely
moments, giving the Com-
munist purchaser a claim on the
gratitude and a hold on the
economy of the seller. The.
Western world has begun to
wake-up to the fact that a great
industrial civilisation is chal-
lenging its trade interests and
political influence in the un-
committed world. What is the
scale and nature of ■ the
challenge?
“Communist countries rarely
give money away to countries
outside the bloc. But in the
last two years they have been
offering trade credits —usually
at 2\ per cent., well below
Western commercial rates —on
a growing scale. Earlier this
year the [U.S.] State Depart-
ment,. estimated, rather
generously, that nearly $l9OO
million of credits had been
offered to countries outside the
bloc in the last three years. Of
this million has
apparently been spent on arms ;
of the remainder, about half
seems committed in specific
commercial agreements. But
$285 million of this—for Yugo-
slavia has just been with-
drawn. And less than a fifth
of the total volume of credits
has actually been spent on
delivered goods or contracting
work. It is a meagre total
beside the $3OOO million of
aid which the United States
grants each year and the un-
publicised trade credits given
by Western firms in the course
of normal business.
“It seems unlikely that the
Soviet bloc will go on another
credit binge round Asia in the
near future, for the amount of
credit which it can give is
limited by its exports. These in
turn, in an economy whqse
importunate growth laps up
all resources, seem likely to be
determined pretty accurately
by the amount of imports that
must be paid for, and today
Cummings in London “Daily Express .”


BALD PATCHES
Hair grown secret formula
Sacred Eastern Oils. Itarelv
fails. Treats Alopecia. Leading
broadcaster’s hair grown after
years of Baldness. Effective
treatment for dandruff (Basic
cause of nearly all hair sick-
ness). and stops falling hair.
My herbal treatment, restores
grey hair to original colour.
Not a dye—not injurious, not
obvious Names given of lead-
ing citizens (with their per-
mission) who gratefully testify.
My treatment used in privacy
of your home.
For free advice write—
MRS. A. EASTON,
Box 5204, G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE
import needs are relatively
small. The Soviet bloc does not
compare with Western Europe
either as market or supplier. It
accounted in 1956 for about
9 per cent, of the world’s im-
ports, rather less than Britain ;
and less than a third of this
little slice came from countries
outside the bloc itself. The
Soviet world bought only
3 per cent, of the combined
exports of South America,
Africa and non-Communist
Asia. It is a marginal market
for the uncommitted world'.
“The bloc may tend to
remain in this modest position
in the total foreign trade of
these areas, for self-sufficiency
is, after all, at the heart of the
Communist economic purpose.
A .general principle of self-
sufficiency, however, does not
rule out foreign trade, or
policies that use foreign trade
as an instrument. The bloc’s
need of goods from the
primary-producing countries is
bound, in any case, to grow. It
is precisely the tropical and sub-
tropical • products rubber,
oranges, cocoa, coffee—which
it does not adequately provide
itself. Cotton, wool, jute and
other fibres may all figure in
growing quantities in the im-
port bill. And there are some
key minerals copper is an
example—which it may remain
necessary to import. In certain
individual tropical economies,
such as Ghana and the Sudan,
the Communist buyer may be
an increasingly important
figure.
“In Western eyes this fact
plainly has political importance.
Directed as it is from a central
seat of power, the bloc can
choose to satisfy its economic
needs in ways that serve
political ends. And of late a
new political skill and purpose
has been evident in the handling
of its foreign trade. At last
a -serious start is being made
on co-ordination of the foreign-
trade plans of the satellites. In
the Middle East the Russians
have used the Czechs and East
Germans with some skill as
spearheads. Above all, they
have obviously concentrated
credits and trade on areas that
offer political possibilities.
“The great bulk of the bloc’s
$l9OO million or so of credit-
offers are to five key countries:
Syria ($2BO million), Egypt
($465 million), Afghanistan
($145 million), India ($270
million) and Indonesia ($llO
million). Last year Ihe
bloc’s imports from the
Middle East roughly
doubled, partly at the expense
of other primary-producing
areas, such as South America.
The concentration of the blocs
cotton-buying on Egypt, which
meant that it took over a third
of the total - Egyptian exports
last year, is plainly political.
Nor, in propaganda terms, has
the last been heard of the
many offers and projects put
forward in the last three years.
The most banal of transactions
—the sale of a cement plant,
the cut-price purchase of a crop
—are published to the world
on 10 different occasions as
beautiful acts of friendship and
love.
“Despite all this, the West
London "Daily Mirror”
“Thou wall, O wall, O sweet and lovely wall,
Show me thy chink, to blink through with mine eyne."
[Wall holds up his fingers.]
“A Midsummer Night's Dream.”
should not be panicked into
trying to outbid every Com-
munist offer. Soviet barter-
deals, after all —rubber from
Ceylon, rice from Burma
have been known to backfire
when world prices took a turn
for the better or when the
Russians delivered unsuitable
goods. America is not the only
great Power that attracts in-
gratitude. Above all, though
the selectivity of the Soviet
‘offensive’ is disquieting, Soviet
trade with, and aid for, the
countries of Asia, Africa and
South America is not a bad
thing in itself. The more the
Soviet world commits itself to
buy outside, the more com-
mitted it is to peaceful inter-
course. Money from the Soviet
bloc, just like money from the
West, can help the economies
of the young countries, and
therefore the total market that
they offer to the world, to grow.
“But one feature of the
Soviet bloc’s challenge should
be closely heeded; its rapid
<■ economic growth. The bloc’s
achievements can easily be
overestimated. The industri-
alisation of China's teeming
millions will take a good deal
more than half-a-century. Yet,
for all the waste and for all
the backwardness, the Soviet
Union is chalking up regular
increases in industrial produc-
tion of 8 to lO per cent, a year.
Its heavy industries are real
competitors. And the two
small industrial States of
Czechoslovakia and East
Germany are regaining some-
thing of their prewar place as
industrial exporters.
“If the markets of Europe
and America mark-time, the
primary - producing countries
may take crumbs from the
Soviet table on pretty well any
terms. The Soviet political and
economic challenge need cause
deep concern in the long-run
only if the Western industrial
economies fail to go on grow-
ing themselves.”
Trade with
Communists
Press-comment on the pro-
posed relaxation of the
“strategic embargo” on trade
with the Communist bloc:
London “News Chronicle” :
“The situation has been farcical
for years. Poland, which
. could and should have been
helped long ago, has been left
almost wholly dependent on
Russia. Other countries, includ-
ing Nato members, have been
able to get round an embargo
which Britain has observed. The
long list of embargoed goods
has done nothing to prevent
Soviet industrial expansion. She
has been able to produce con-
ventional and atomic arms in
abundance. By its self-denial of
trade the West has cut off its
nose to spite its face. The
Communist bloc has benefited
by almost exclusive trade-
rights with China.”
London “Daily Mail”:
“Why should British industri-
alists lose valuable orders in
obedience to an out-of-date
schedule, or because sorrje of
their competitors are ' less
scrupulous? Much of the list
is meaningless because what
were vital war-making articles
at the time of Korea have
ceased to be so in the missile
age. Russia is actually export-
ing goods we [Britain] are
forbidden to send her. What
kind of sense is that?
“No one wants to supply the
Communists with weapons of
war or apparatus on the secret-
list. But, those apart, what else
is there which a community
capable of producing a sputnik
cannot make?
“This is the danger, especi-
ally in China. If the Chinese
cannot buy machine-tools and
power-plants from us they will
either get them from Russia or
construct them at home. They
are, in fact, already doing so,
and we are losing not only
immediate sales but potential
future markets and goodwill.’*
* * *
London “Financial Times”:
“In its present form the
embargo has become a farce,
more honored in many Nato
countries in the breach than in
the observance. It contains
machines that are already avail-
able in the Eastern bloc, and
even commodities of which
Russia has an export surplus.
It was drawn-up before the
implications of nuclear strategy
were thought out; and most
of the items would make no
difference to Soviet potential in
a future war. The main effect
of the present list is to make
East-West trade embarrassing
for some of the more respon-
sible U.K. firms who may lose
orders to Continental com-
petitors.
“Even if the embargo were
drastically overhauled at the


end of this month, the
difference this would make to
British trade would be a minor
one. On several occasions in
the past few years there have
been sensational stories of vast
Soviet orders, which have only
led to disappointment.
“As far back as 1956 the
Soviet leaders presented Sir
Anthony Eden with a £lOOO
million shopping-basket, over
half of which was not subject
to security restrictions. So far
this year British exports to
Russia ate well below last
year’s: but even if this is
ignored as a temporary
phenomenon, the total volume
of direct exports to the /Soviet
Union amounted in 1957 to
some £37 million, or little more
than 1 per cent, of total exports.
“If all the other Iron Curtain
countries, including China, are
added in, the proportion still
only rises to about 2 per cent.,
which is less than our
[Britain’s] exports to Belgium
alone ; and nothing more than
London “Daily Express”
“The one on the right’s the doll —the other one’s her old man.”
a slow and gradual increase
can be expected if the restric-
tions are eased. A doubling of
present volumes to another
2 per cent, of present U.K.
exports would be a very
optimistic guess and would take
several years to come into
. . . .
, f
The same: The place of
Iron Curtain exports in British
trade, although important
enough to make it worth relax-
ing existing resti ic ions, is s i
only a small one. In fact, the
valid reasons foi pressing
matter are as much political as
economic. As tne aria-
nfntary Secretary to the oar
of 1 rade said recen ly in
Poland: ‘Trade is perhaps the
best medium for increasing
personal contacts between the
East and the West.’
“These remarks, were particu-
larly apposite in Poland,
where anti-Russian feeling is
strong—even among officials —
and the desire to strengthen
contacts with the West is
intense. In the case of Russia
and China the political gains
may be less important -- any
relaxation will certainly make
no difference to the prospects
for summit talks—-but they may
still be worth pursuing.”
Alaska
Greetings to the 49th State of
the U.S.A.:
“New York Times” : “After
46 years as a territory Alaska
now joins the congregation of
the States.
“This victory should have
come sooner. Alaska has long
fulfilled , all the requirements
of competence and of justice to
become a self-governing
member of the Union. Her
population is not great, but it
is larger than that of a number
of States at the time they were
admitted to the Union without
question- It is two-thirds the
population of Wyoming, over
one-half the population of
Vermont, almost the population
of Nevada.
“It is a vigorous population,
largely composed of pioneer
stock seeking the last frontier,
but including also Eskimos and
Indians, who learned long ago
how to survive in a climate that
in the east is almost as chilly
and snowy as New York, and
in the north descends to truly
startling extremes of cold.
Modern men meet these
extremes with gaiety and con-
fidence, as anybody may
observe who wanders along the
modern-looking streets of Fair-
banks. Alaska can never
support a population per acre
equal to that nourished in
industrial Pennsylvania, or on
the rich soil of lowa, but she
is rich in minerals and other
natural resources, as her people
are rich in fortitude.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post” : “This vast
territory- which faces Siberia
across the Bering Straits, has
become of great strategic im-
portance. This fact was brought
home to the Americans during
the Second World War, when
Alaska was used as a vital link
on the new air-routes to Soviet
Russia. Many airports were
built there, and the famous
Alaska highway was con-
structed, bringing with it sub-
stantial economic headway.
With its rich natural resources,
the new State should develop
still further in the coming years
as communications improve
and houses are built for the
many people who have shown
a desire to settle there.”
*' * *
London “Daily Telegraph” :
“In making Alaska, which is
cut off from the United States
by Canada, the 49th State of
the Union, Congress has set a
fascinating precedent in
political expansion. For the
first time full' Statehood has
been granted to a non-con-
tiguous area. If, as now seems
certain, the precedent is
shortly extended to Hawaii, not
only will the Union include a
vast, distant Polar section of
the American continent, but
also a tropical island in the
middle of the Pacific Ocean.
These geographical novelties
are further compounded by
the fact that in both cases much
of the population is non-white.
At the moment there are no
other aspirants for Statehood
with equivalent qualifications:”
U.S. Recession
Earlier this year Professor
James Angell, of Columbia
(U.S.A.) University, was among
those who, to the U.S. Senate
Finance (Committee, predicted
“a major depression” for the
U.S. More recently the pro-
fessor apparently changed his
views, saying that he now be-
lieves the chances of a depres-
sion in the U.S. are “practically
zero.”
Commenting on this change
of outlook, London “Econo-
mist’s” Washington corres-
pondent finds it typical of “a
swing among both optimists
and pessimists toward some-
what brighter forecasts than
were common a short time
ago”:
“A number of people who,
until recently, could see noth-
ing better for the economy
than ‘bumping along the bot-
tom’ for the rest of this year
are now talking of the possi-
bility of a genuine recovery in
the fourth quarter. Some are
even convinced that by the
end of the fourth quarter the
economy will have climbed
right back to the levels of
activity which prevailed before
the recession, though unem-
ployment will be greater be-
cause of additions to the labor
force.
“The standard forecast may
still point to no more than a
sluggish recovery, but a high
official of the Government
sums-up the change in opinion
by remarking that ‘all any-
body ever asks me about now
is how fast the recovery is
going to be and whether we’re
in for another bout of infla-
tion.’
“What has happened to
cause this change? Much of
the answer must be found in
the extraordinary resistance of
incomes to the decline. At
their peak last August personal
incomes were running at an
annual rate of $347,000 mil-
lion. Then a sharp and classic
decline began in the key com-
ponent —wages and salaries —
which continued for eight
months and amounted to the
impressive sum of $BOOO mil-
lion at annual rates. And yet
by May the total of personal
incomes, after rising for three
consecutive months, was


NUFFIELD brings you the most
efficient Independent Power Take-off *
you can buy!
N °n f HVOR^Cs|
tec
c 7:
&
- .
Ti
No more need for separate power units on most driven implements ... no
more stopping the P.T.O. when the tractor stops Nuffield P.T.O. and
hydraulics work completely independently of tractor movements! You can
stop and start the tractor, move it into any gear without interrupting the
1.P.T.0. operation and —equally important—stop and start the 1.P.T.0. while
the tractor is moving! Two separate clutches —one engaging 1.P.T.0. drive,
the other the tractor drive —make this possible. The hydraulics, too, are
completely independent of tractor movement —it’s no longer necessary to
stop the tractor and put it into neutral to operate the hydraulic pump. 1.P.T.0.
is only one of the many great features of the Nuffield Universal Tractor.
Arrange with your Nuffield Dealer now for a demonstration on your own
land —find out for yourself how this great task force can help you tremendouslyl
Models from £1,326/5/-. F.O.R. all capital cities.
I
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
:bmc
rxQXQSa
[■aaan.^;ga.'.i«a*«T
NT. 60.32
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
Nuffield (Australia) Pty. Ltd., Tractor Division,
Box 73, G.P.0., Sydney
Please send me literature on the Nuffield Tractor
Range and Independent Power Take-off.
N AME I
ADDRESS
□ Place X In square It for school pro/ect.
$344,300 million, or less than
one per cent, below the peak.
“Much of the credit for this
belongs, of course, to the
famous ‘built-in stabilisers,’
which have performed heroic-
ally. Unemployment benefits
compensated for about one-
third of the loss of wages and
salaries; large numbers of
people more than were
originally expected—have re-
tired and qualify for- social-
security benefits for the aged ;
ex-servicemen’s benefits were
fortuitously inareased last Octo-
ber; and, for reasons of . its
own, farmfincome has been
rising throughout the recession,
“These factors together have
added $6OOO million to personal
incomes at annual rates since
last August, or almost enough
to offset the decline in incomes
from other sources. One re-
markable result is that in this,
the worst of the three post-war
recessions, only 120,000 fami-
lies, or one-quarter of one per
cent, of the total number of
households, have been forced
to accept public assistance.
“Two significant develop-
ments are encouraging for the
future, In May, for the first
time since the recession started,
income from wages and
salaries, responding to higher
employment, began to rise
again after its steep fall. And,
starting v in June and July,
civilian and military employees
of the Government will receive
increases in pay at an annual
rate of $l4OO million, plus
lump-sum retrospective pay-
ments totalling $360 million.
In incomes seem to have
nowhere to go but up. As
consumer-spending all along
has been running roughly in
line with personal income, the
presumption is that consump-
tion will rise, giving the
economy significant help in an
all-important sector.”
Nehru: “One Virtue I
possess. I may lose many
things, including my temper,
but I do not lose my nerve.
It is a useful quality.”


THE OTH ER FE LLO W'S MIND
Local-government Elections
N. S. Wales Local Govern-
ment Minister Renshaw could
do a useful job by abolishing
the compulsory-voting pro-
visions for municipal and shire
elections; but, of course, he
won’t.
There are three categories of
electors: non-resident rate-
payers, resident ratepayers and
all residents in the municipality
or shire whose names are on
the State rolls.
The first class are not legally
obliged to vote ; the others are
An escape-clause, however,
exempts defaulters with an
excuse considered by the
council as reasonable. But there
is no obligation on councils to
prosecute in any instance *. Thus
it is that some councils, like
that of the Blue Mountains,
quite rightly refuse to prosecute,
while others, such as the Labor-
controlled Botany show, give
defaulters “the works” a
month or so ago a number of
non-voters in the
Botany municipal
elections were con-
victed and penalised
with fines of 10s.,
plus £2 12s. 6d. costs,
with prison terms in
default of pay-
ment.
It all boils down
to this: a few coun-
cils, under certain
control, will prose-
cute ; others, the
major i t y, won’t
harass citizens. The
result is an in-
equitable application of the
law.
But whether it .is council
policy to prosecute or not, each
must go through the mumbo-
jumbo of checking and counter-
checking rolls? of all wards;
compiling lists of defaulters ;
issuing interrogatories with
dire threats to any recipient
failing to complete and return
(postage prepaid) the com-
pleted form; checking the
return, and judicially assessing
the value and validity of the
excuses submitted. And then,
in most instances and with
commendable prudence, they
stuff the lot away in council’s
glory-box. The P.M.G. must
be well content with Bd.
postage per interrogation, but
the cost of the unnecessary
waste of councils’ revenues is
anyone’s guess.—Y. Mfe
(N.S.W.).
The Wells Organisation
Some time ago The Bulletin
printed an item about an
interview with Colonel Wells,
of Wells Organisations, in an
expensive top-floor suite in
Melbourne. It was stated that
he had refused to disclose his
income, and the report then
calculated what percentage
Wells Organisations would be
likely to receive on the pub-
lished results of its activities.
In fairness to Colonel Wells
it should now be reported that
the ownership of Wells
Organisations Pty., Ltd., “has
been transferred to an Austra-
“ Don't start that motor —do you Want to scare 'em
all away?"
lian charitable trust whose
future income will be given to
educational institutions of
churches in this country.”
In a letter to client churches
and others it is stated that
Colonel Wells has made the
transfer of shares as an out-
right gift because the Austra-
lian company was never con-
sidered as a personal profit-
making venture. The owner-
ship of the company will be
vested in local trustees for the
benefit of the Australian
churches.
The “educational institu-
tions” are to include theologi-
cal colleges and seminaries in
addition to schools. The
churches to benefit under this
scheme are: Church of Eng-
land, Methodist, Presbyterian,
Catholic, Congregational, Bap-
tist, Lutheran and Church of
Christ. '
“From May 9, 1958,” the
letter states, “Wells Organisa-
tions Pty., Ltd., is owned by
the charitable trust which is
the only shareholder.” —
G.H.O. (N.S.W.).
Gunboat Diplomacy
Those disturbances (B.
4/6/’5B) reach not only from
Indonesia to Algeria, but are
cropping-up in Latin America
and the West Indies —a herpes
belt of misery around the belly
of the world.
Freedom of once-subject
nations from foreign rule has
not given greater personal
liberty or better governors to
the “liberated” nationals ; nor,
for the most part, has it
noticeably improved their liv-
in Too many
“national” leaders, whether in
power or in revolt, seem more
concerned with browbeating
their neighbors or persecuting
minorities in their own coun-
tries than with doing anything
constructive to help their
people to prosperity. At every
opportunity Communists are
stirring up trouble to discredit
any non-Communistic ideo-
logy or organisation, and to
reduce one country after
another to such a state of
anarchy and misery as to make
it a “sitter” for Communist
revolution and thraldom to
Russia. v
How much longer are we
to suffer these wreckers?
Others besides “Cut-and-
Thrust” (also B, 4/6/’5B) are
beginning to look back wist-
fully to the good old days when
“gunboat diplomacy” had
cleared the high seas of pirates
and slavers, and made life and
property reasonably secure
over most of the world.
Civilisation as we know it
has been built-up slowly, and
with many setbacks, false starts
and new beginnings. For sur-
vival it depends on the same
conditions which made its
growth possible—the organisa-
tion of tribes into nations,
division of labor and the-
development of special skills,
opening and maintaining lines
of communication and wide
exchange ot goods and iGeas.
Particularly it depended, and
still depends, upon security of
life, liberty and property.
If a community is to sur-
vive, farms, factories and rail-
roads must go on functioning,
secure from bandits anJ
saboteurs, whether they are
“owned” by individual citizens
or by the State. If the non-
Socialist part of the world is
not to fail into ruin, it must
protect itself from marauders
and cheats. It will have to
keep its trade-routes open, pre-
serve its freedom to buy and
sell, - and collect just debts.
These new liberties should not
mean licence to loot, any more
than freedom to murder. A
public company cannot repudi-
ate its debts or contracts
merely by changing its
directors ; why should a nation,
by changing its Government,
be free to avoid its contracts
with other States, or to con-
fiscate the private property of
foreigners? We of the West
have suffered too much of that
sort of thing, and have been
brought into contempt by our
passivity.
If the rot is to stop. Govern-
ments not antagonistic to the
West should be encouraged
and helped by all available
means to bring their subjects
to order ; and then induced to
treat them fairly. Continuity
of responsibility and entity in
Government must be restored,
and the sanctity of contracts
recognised and enforced.
It may be that the brigands
of the Near, Middle and' Far
East will see the light and
submit themselves to some
reasonable system of law and
order before irreparable Harm
is done. If not, a return to


Commonwealth of Australia
m
Dept, of Labour and National Service
REGISTRATION FOR
NATIONAL SERVICE
All HAH
BRITISH SUBJECTS 2nd HEW AUSTRALIANS
of the classes described below who are ordinarily resident
in Australia
MUST REGISTER
Between 21st JULY, 1958 and 4th AUGUST, 1958
unless exempt from liability to do so
BRITISH SUBJECTS
(a) who attain the age of 18 years between Ist July, 1958
and 31st December, 1958 (inclusive)
(b) who, being in Australia on 23rd August, 1957, but not
then being British subjects, attained the age of 18 years
between Ist July, 1957 and 31st December, 1957
(inclusive).
NEW ftUSTHALIANS
(NOT BEING BRITISH SUBJECTS)
who attained the age of 18 years between Ist July, 1957 and
31st December, 1957 (inclusive) and who were in Australia
on 23rd August, 1957.
A person who intends to make his home in Australia is regarded as
ordinarily resident in Australia as from *he time of his arrival. A person
who is absent from Australia during the period within which he is required
to register, must register within 14 days after his return.
EXEMPTIONS:
The ONLY persons exempt from the liability to register are certain
diplomatic personnel, aboriginal natives of Australia, and full-time serving
members of the Permanent Defence Forces. All others in the above age
groups must register.
HOW TO REGISTER:
Registration forms may be obtained from Post Offices and District Employ-
ment Offices of the Department of Labou,r and National Service. Detailed
instructions are given in these forms.
WHEN TO REGISTER:
Registration forms must be completed and forwarded to the Registrar for
National Service by 4th August, 1 958, even though the person required to
register may not actually turn 18 until after that date.
BALLOT:
A Ballot will be held in September to select those registrants Who are to
be considered for call-up. A person who does not register by 4th August
may lose his right to take part in the ballot and may be called up for
training, regardless of the ballot result.
FAILURE TO REGISTER:
A person required to register who fails to do so is liable to a
penalty of £lO.
minimum
NSRIO/93/78
“gunboat diplomacy,” in one
guise or another, is inevitable.
—Carl Helmar (Q.).
Modern Retailing
I’m no more keen about
t.-p., h.-p., or “budget-account”
finance than “Y. Mee” (B.
9/7/J5B), but if his main objec-
tion is indeed “the interroga-
tion of his private life to which
the budgetee is subjected,”
then the objection is groundless.
Of all the information about
himself the would-be customer
is obliged to declare on the
applicatioq-form, only that in
respect of his employer and
any previous h.-p. account is
actually (and discreetly) in-
vestigated. Other items of
information touchingLis friends,
relatives, personal property,
etc., are acted upon only after
the budgetee defaults or should
he die during the currency of
the account.
Surely no person whose
affairs are in order, but who
seeks credit, should fear or
feel embarrassed by a business-
like approach to his employer
and/or previous creditor in
confirmation of his otherwise
unknown bona fides? —•
P.O.M.C. (N.S.W.).
Railways
The world over, the twilight
of railways is beginning to
fall. Their complex illnesses-
stem from their inflexibility.
Those that exist will work-out
their days, and some fragments
may survive; new lines may
even be built in a tew special
cases, but the general scene
will be an inevitable decline of
tracked vehicles—especially in
developing nations where
transport requirements change.
The fade-out of trams for
urban transport is a world-
wide prelude to the ascendancy
of trackless, rubber-tyred
vehicles, which are not tied to
permanent routes, rigid
schedules, and generally fixed
loading-points, and are not
immobilised by an accident to
one.
All railways know that they
have only a short-term future
in passenger-traffic, and that
their mixed-freight future is
doubtful unless they establish
streamlined handling pro-
cedure, such as the lately
discussed “piggy-back” system.
The remaining firm future lies
in fixed point-to-point bulk-
handled freight, such as wheat
and coal.
Wheat-traffic is a firm pros-
pect for the N.S.W. railways,
but is only seasonal. Coal-
traffic is . not seasonal, but is
shading-off. The big coal-
consuming industries are steel
and power, but steelworks had
the sense to establish them-
selves on the coalfields. The
Electricity Commission plans to
site its base-load power-stations
on the coalfields, and the policy
is already in elfect in Wallera-
wang, Lake Macquarie and
Lake Illawarra.
This is fair testimony of
railway inefficiency because it
inverts the situation in the
U.S.A., where power-engineers
said, “The cheapest' 1 way to
transmit kilowatt-hours is in
40-ton cars,” meaning that
cheaper power comes from
railing coal to power-stations
built in the cities. In N.S.W.
it is cheaper to generate power
on the coalfields and accept
the losses of electric transmis-


“George is quite fanatical about punctuality .”
sion to the load-centres,
Comparing N.S.W. and U.S.
railways by pence-per-ton-
mile haulage is incomplete—
U.S. railroads have tipplers
and car-shakers for efficient
bulk-handling of coal.
The N.S.W. railways interest-
burden on capital-debt forever
dims their future, but this is
unfairly missed who
make a direct comparison of
rail- and road-freighting.
Road-hauliers don’t have a
similar burden, sihce they con-
tributed nothing to the estab-
lishment of the roads they use.
Still, the railways have not
striven to make the best of
their decaying world. To cut-
down track-maintenance other
railways in the world now use
nylon-bushed nuts on fish-
plateS. The N.S.W.G.R. con-
firmed their benefit with a try-
out at high traffic-density
spots, but decided against their
use.
Another drag on finance is
the policy of manufacturing
equipment which is available
as proprietary items at less
cost. Chullora workshops are
notorious for their low output,
and there was a heaven-sent
opportunity to cut costs when
the Electricity Commission
negotiated for the acquisition
of Chullora. But the railways
wanted to make it a “package-
deal” —the staff was to go with
them. The commission decided
not to buy itself a problem.
The most profound of all
comments on the Ebasco
Report came from railway
officers who said the report
told them nothing they didn’t
know. That is the clearest
indictment of. “railway-ism,”
and shows the slim chance of
the report being translated into
action while an indulgent
Government is around to
carry the deficits. — Acolyte
(N.S.W.).
Wool
In endorsing alb that “Alma”
(B. 11/6/’5B) says about wool,
1 would particularly mention
nightwear. Woollen pyjamas
for men. and boys, though
expensive, are popular in the
colder parts of Australia. They
are warmer than any synthetic,
attractive, fadeproof and,
washed with ordinary care,
will last four to six winters.
It is far otherwise with
women’s nightgowns of knitted
woollen fabric. 1 know of two
nightgowns from reputable
makers which shrank Min. in
length, while each sleeve
shrank Bin. after careful hand-
washing. The result was not
exactly comforting to mothers
getting up to small children on
below-freezing nights.
The fault in this case seems
to be with the manufacturers,
but a strong challenge to
research scientists remains in
the form of boarding-sehool
laundries. In my day, woollen
stockings were compulsory for
winter wear, and a few washes
converted them to tight, harsh,
rigid tubes which cruelly
chafed the backs of one’s
knees. Recent contact with a
boys’ school has shown that
the art has not been lost.
Even costly, guaranteed wool-
and-cotton socks are swiftly
transmuted into something like
bits of sweat-caked saddle-
blanket. The day woollen gar-
ments are produced which will
stand-up to this treatment and
retain their original character,
wool-men can stop worrying
about competition from any
synthetic yet invented.—
Margaret Lorraine (N.S.W.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 496
Across
I—We learn from them a planet put on weight. (8)
s—Plunder5 —Plunder which makes an artist fret about holding a bit
of haberdashery. (6)
9—Hotel applause because of new departures. (11)
12 — Maoris dance with this one behind the post-office. (3)
13— A much-headlined professor. (3)
14— Club in .a, steamer burns spitlingly. (8)
15— Paintings arid sculpture inquiry about thy. existence? (3)
16 — Glutted with the (3, 2)
18 —Some blooming seamen I bashed. (7)
20 — Measures as of chases. (6)
21- or minced steak. (5) .
23—Duke's toe is broken when , a
little is made to go a long
way. (4, 3)
26 —Leer about a wheat, rye or
barley. (5)
28— Kitty's dad. (3)
29 — Crescent freezer accompanying
one professional guide. (8)
33 — Cherry mustn’t have her _sob. (3)
34 — Footwear usable at the same
time of the year as 21-across. (3)
35 — Kitty takes a razor-sharpener
before he completes a
disaster. (11)
36 — Handvman who gives Sue
’flu (6)
37 County gets some disturbed
rest. (8)
Down
1 — Contradicting a dictum on
profit. (10)
2 Coasting with an unbeliever. (8)
3 Darling mother voted when Ted
drops out the ash container
before evening. (10)
4 Anger about racing information
in the steeple. (5)
6 As well as Jolson’s duck. (4)
7 Death of a goblin to be
. imminent. (6).
8 — Girl to eat up. (4)
10— A symbol in Polynesian worship
brings an infant to them. (5)
11 — 13-across is a perfume ingredi-
ent. (5)
16 —Go without eating one of cook’s
efforts conducive to good
times? (4, 6)
. 17 —Temper nine suppressed is
greatest of the great. (3-7)
19 —Town jn Que:nsiand. (3)
22 —Preposition devilishly lures
tries. (8)
24 Ukase. (5)
25 — Influential Algerian in the middle
. acts responsively to orders. (5)
27 —A skyscraper wrath of a
snake. (6)
30 — Dense and stupid donkey in local
government. (5)
31— A use for a biblical dupe. (4)
32 — Unbleached linen cure is
arranged. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 495


J
♦
NO SINGLE RUM CAN MATCH IT!
RED JACK RUM
o
RUM
BLENDED FROM QUEENSLAND’S
CHOICEST 7-YEAR-OLD
POT-STILL RUMS. NO “SINGLE”
RUM CAN MATCH IT
'7-' Specially blended by
John Dewar & Sons Ltd., Sydney and
Harboctle Brown & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney
♦
f
DWB7
A young wife, whose
husband was unwell, attempted
to take his temperature, and
then frantically telephoned the
doctor: “Please come at once.
My husband’s temperature is
Any complaints ?”
136.” The doctor: “I will be
round in five minutes, but I
fear such a case is beyond my
skill. You should have phoned
the fire-brigade.”
“This is a most insidious
proposal. If you accept it you
will find it to be neither more
nor less than the thin edge of
a white elephant.”
“The actual cause of death
is unknown, as deceased died
without the aid of a doctor.”
“These astounding figures,
ladies and gentlemen, are not
my own figures. They are the
figures of a man who knows
what he is talking about.”
“False doctrine is when the
doctor gives the wrong stuff -to
people who are ill.”
“Can I see Lieutenant
Barker, please?” asked a young
lady at a private hospital.
“Well,” replied the matron, “we
do not permit visiting at this
hour. Are you a relative?”
“Oh, yes. I —l'm his sister ”
“Well, well! I’m very glad to
meet you. I’m his mother."
Of the 1930’s depression:
“Ah yes, poor chap,” said a
man of his stockbroker friend,
“he’s been badly slit by the
hump.”
On what occasion this could
be used I do not know, but it
is included in the section
labelled “Obituary”: “Having
nagged her husband for years,
a shrewish wife expressed exag-
gerated sorrow when he died,
and erected a handsome tomb-
stone with a sentimental inscrip-
tion closing with the line, ‘Rest
in peace till I join you.’ ”
A/Ty friend had served in the
artillery during the First
World War, which possibly
accounts for the bulky
“Defence” section ; from
which, one example:
On learning that Admiral
Howe was in pursuit of the
French Fleet, Sir Boyle Roche
expressed the hope that he
would succeed in “sweeping the
French fleet off the face of the
earth.”,
Finally, one of many con-
cerned with farming:
A wealthy English immigrant
bought a backblocks sheep-run,
but, knowing nothing whatever
about farming, he never visited
the place, leaving the running
of the property entirely to his
manager. Having been in-
formed later on that wool
prices were likely to rise, he
sent a telegram to the manager:
“Wool prices advancing start
shearing at once.” The
manager replied: “Can’t start
shearing, have, just started
lambing.” The owner replied:
“Wool advancing still further,
start shearing at once, stop
lambing if necessary.”
any of these effective
when they were used?
After a second or third reading,
all of them impress one as being
puerile ; but they were not at
the time they were related. I
happened to hear a number of
speeches in which some of the
stories featured ; they brought
down the house, for nothing is
more appreciated by an
audience than a single
humorous note in a long and
solemn discourse.
Humor, and especially humor
introduced into a political
speech, must always have the
appearance of being spon-
taneous ; and it must be closely
related to the subject under
discussion. It need not neces-
sarily be original. Any old
chestnut will do, so long as it
is apt and is told well. It
must never, of course, be read
to an audience, for that
obviously would dispel the
illusion of spontaneity. More-
over, the speaker must convey
the impression that he is as
appreciative of the joke as his
audience ; and this takes some
effort if, as often happens in
political life, the same speech is
given night after night in a tour
of the country. No joke can
stand continuous repetition ;
but for a politician it must
stand repetition. He must
repeat it—for during a pro-
tracted tour he has not the
time or the energy to concoct
new speeches, even though he
is inwardly writhing at the
staleness of his own remarks.
What keeps him going? The
applause of his audiences, and,
most heartening of all, the
laughter that greets his witty
sallies, original or otherwise.


THE MAN
THE LAND
"DONT WORRY IM SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
MORE ABOUT COWS AND HORMONES
By W. G. WHITTLESTONE
Tn my last article 'I made a
rash promise I said I
would bring all the facts
discussed into a scheme which
would have value to the prac-
tical man in the cowshed.
Before I try to do this I
have some more clues which
will help in tying things
together.
As already explained, there
is a complicated control-system
in the body which acts through
the blood by means of
messengers or hormones. Some
of these are slow and produce
long-term effects on the body ;
others act quickly and cause
changes in a few seconds.
There is another system of
control in the body the
nervous-system. It is very
quick in action. If something
hot touches us we withdraw
even before have had time
to think. The nervous-system
is used to do all the fast jobs
which keep an animal adjusted
to its environment fro in
moment to moment.
The destruction of
rabbits by myxo-
matosis in England has
caused the fox menace
to become more acute.
Hungry foxes are now
.taking lambs within 20
yards of homesteads.
However, farmers and
shepherds have kept
the foxes at bay by
painting the lambs with
creosote, although in
some cases the smell
of the creosote has
resulted in the ewes
neglecting the lambs*
One step' for lamb
preservation which
stockowners through-
out the world have
taken during the past
few years is the use
of Elastrator Rubber
Rings instead Of the
knife for marking and
tailing. Elastrator
Rubber Rings cause no
open wounds to become
infected by germs.
Nerves control our . balance
(unless the systemu has been
slowed-down by, say, alcohol,
when we have to depend on
someone else’s nervous-system),
our direction and speed when
“Waltzeeng Mateelda! Waltzeeng Mateelda! You
gom' a' waltzeeng Mateelda wit ’ me!"
walking, the secretion of saliva,
focusing of the eyes, and so on.
One of the amazing things
about the nervous-system is its
ability to adapt. It changes
quickly when subjected to
stimuli. A dog has to get a
shock from an electric-fence
once only and he treats Jt with
great respect. One good shock
is never forgotten. The famous
Russian physiologist Pavlov
showed that if a dog is fed
every time a bell rings, very
soon he will produce saliva
when he hears the bell.
Further, if, after establish-
ing this conditioned reflex, as
it is called, the bell is rung often
without food, the flow of saliva
decreases and finally ceases
when the bell is rung.
Pavlov also showed that quite
complicated patterns of stimuli
can be used for conditioning.
For example, a dog was trained
to take his food after three
different notes had been played
on the piano in a particular
order. If the order was changed
or one note missed-out the
amount of saliva was greatly
decreased.
Another interesting fact: if
a dog has been trained to take
his food after a particular
stimulus which evokes a strong
flow of saliva the introduction
of an unusual stimulus, such
as a flashing light or a smell,
will stop the flow —the reflex is
inhibited. In this way inhibi-
tions can be built-up as well as
positive actions.
All animals which have been
tested can build-up conditioned
reflexes, as these artificial or
“learnt” reflexes are called.
The study of such effects throws
a lot of light on man’s behavior.
If a dog has been positively
conditioned to the appearance
of an illuminated circle and
inhibited to a distinct ellipse,
and the latter is gradually made
more and more like a N circle,
in due course the dog will be
unable to tell whether it is a
circle or an ellipse. The result
is a complete nervous break-
down, and the dog becomes
quite neurotic. Another kind of
breakdown occurs if the dog
is suddenly subjected to a
strong, unusual stimulus. He
will react by going into a kind
of coma. He escapes from the
situation by losing his reason.
We can perhaps summarise
all this by saying that if a
natural reflex, such as the
letting-down of milk as a resuit
of the suckling - stimulus, is-
associated with some other
stimulus, such as the sounds of
the cowshed —noise of cans and
buckets, of the milking-
machine, and so on these
stimuli will come in time to be
as effective' as the natural
stimulus in setting the reflex
off.
If an unusual stimulus, such
as a loudmouthed salesman,
appears in the cowshed, the
effect will probably be to reduce
the milk-yield. Accidents such
as power-failures, falling teat-
cups, etc., have the same effect.
From this we can deduce that
to get uniform milk-yields we
need a regular routine in the
cowshed.
I know of a nice example of
how important conditioning
can be to the letting-down of
jnilk, The young mother con-
cerned was a very systematic
person. She always popped
down-town in the middle of the
morning and did the shopping
before the noon feed for baby.
One day her watch was an
hour. fast, and as she was
travelling in the bus in town
she glanced at her watch,.saw
what she thought was baby’s
feeding-time, and very nearly
drowned herself in milk! It
was a most embarrassing
moment, but a fine illustration
of conditioning.
In the same way inhibitions
can upset regular feeding of the
baby. Any worry or distrac-
tion can prevent a full let-down,
and there will not be enough
milk.
The successful mother is the
person who can relax and
enjoy feeding the baby; the
successful dairyman is the one
who creates a relaxed atmo-
sphere in his cowshed, so that
the cows look forward to being
milked.
Regularity is important and
so is a quiet, relaxed atmo-
sphere' free from distractions.
I’m sure music in the cowshed
is helpful, not because it has a
direct effect on the cow but
because it enables the milkers
to relax and enjoy their job.
Cows know when they are
being hurried along and resent
it.
Prof. Petersen tells a story
about a young friend who paid
his way through college from
profits made from a herd of
cows his father gave him. He
was a wonderful cowman, and
won production-prizes with his
herd. Then he fell in love
with a city girl, and milking,
from being a joy, became a
chore he had to do before he


a
mut
STORM LANTERN
and get value for
money! Gives 12 hours
brilliant light on only
pints of kerosene. Abso-
lutely wind and weather-
proof. A Reflector is
available as an extra if
required.
And 100% British Made too!
300 Candiepower
!
Model X 246
‘Sit'the diUetencv!
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores throughout Australia,
la ease of difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
could get away to the city.
Immediately his affections
were transferred from his herd
to the city girl milk-production
dropped.
Moral—a good cowman is in
love with his cows and at
least doesn’t make any other
loves known to them!
We have discussed briefly
the conditioning or training of
animals and have got a little
insight into the importance of
the nervous-system in the milk-
ing of cows. There is still one
mystery to look into. It is
the question: How does the
nervous-system influence the
hormones?
In the case of the release of
adrenaline some of the effects
are obvious. A sudden noise
frightens the cow ; her adrenals
pour out adrenaline ; this prac-
tically shuts off the circulation
of blood to the udder. Result:
no milk can be let-down no
'matter how much the cow may
desire it. In this case the
nervous-system results in the
inhibition of the action of at
least one hormone as the result
of releasing another.
Usually it is more compli-
cated. We have talked about the
. pituitary as the conductor of
the endocrine orchestra the
gland which calls the tunes
from all the others. We know
that the brain is the centre of
the nervous-system. How do
the two act on one another?
This has been a mystery for
a long time.
We know that the pituitary
gland is made-up of two parts,
one really being an extension
of the brain. It happens that
most of . the blood which
supplies the anterior part flows
through part of the posterior
lobe on its way. We also know
that the hormones from the
posterior lobe are made in the
brain. These facts are the clue.
When the nervous-system
stimulates the right parts of
the brain-posterior pituitary
substances are released. These
pass through the anterior lobe
and stimulate it into action.
(There are no known nerve-
supplies to the anterior lobe
which could cause it to act
directly.) In this way the two
great controlling systems are
brought together, and the con-
ductor of the orchestra gets his
orders from the management,
which is in this case the brain.
An illustration of how this
system works is the mating-
reflex in the rabbit. When
rabbits mate the posterior-
pituitary hormones are
released; these stimulate the
anterior pituitary to release
follicule-stimulating hormone
(FSH), which acts on the ovaries
and causes the release of an egg.
Another example : When an
animal gets a fright adrenaline
is released ; so is ADH from
the posterior pituitary. It
seems that the two act together
on the anterior lobe to cause
the release of the now famous
ACTH (adrenocorticotrophic
hormone), which acts on the
adrenal cortex and prepares the
animal to resist the effects of
shock —e.g., injury through loss
of blood.
This article, like the preced-
ing one, also has a lot of facts
in it. It all makes one realise
how complicated even the
simplest thing is when we try
to understand it. The milking
of a cow is actually amazingly
complicated, so that it isn't
surprising that it is only, after
years of research that we get
to a point where we can really
improve practical methods.
However, as will become
evident in a later article, by
going about the milking-process
logically in the light of what
we now know we can milk with
less labor and get more milk.
Frost or Mite?
“Iramoo”: Before conclud-
ing that frost is holding back
winter pastures farmers would
do well to make sure that the
trouble is not being caused by
insects, such as red-legged
earth-mites, common from
Ceduna to Sydney this year.
These are worth detecting
early in the season for two
reasons :> first, because they are
much easier to control in their
tens than in theij thousands,
and secondly, because early
detection gives you a chance
to knock them with D.D.T.-in-
super. instead of_the more
messy, although effective,
D.D.T. emulsion.
It pays'to keep other insects
in mind when topdressing.
Lindane knocks-out cock-
chafers, and dieldrin puts an
end to the cricket season.
Melathion, another compara-
tively new insecticide, is effec-
tive against lucerne-flea, which
is active in some southern
Australian pastures this year.
' Sidelines
“Mower”: Wheatgrowers
might well consider sidelines
thqt could use home-grown
grain to advantage. For
example, grain-fed pigs.
Besides using surplus grain
and supplementing the family
income, such sidelines could
provide profitable employment
for sons who would normally
have to seek work elsewhere,
when there is not enough land
for them on the home farm,
Historic Stud
“R.”: The news that the
Coonong and Borambola herds
of Shorthorn cattle, together
with Borambola Park, near
Wagga (N.S.W.), are up for sale
by tender has created Australia-
wide interest. Practically every
successful Australian stud has
had an infusion of Coonong
blood.
The stud was founded in
1925 by D. R. TylcCaughey, of
Coonong (nephew of Sir
Samuel). D. R. McCaughey
bought from A. Hordern, of
Milton Park, Bowral (N.S.W.),
12 of the best female stock
available and the influential sire
Milton’s Masterkey. Of the
cows, eight were by Masterkey.
From this foundation-herd
sprang the Fancy Lady and
Martha families, which remain
so strong today.
Innumerable successes in
shows and sale-rings during the
last 30 years have justified Mo
Caughey’s farsighted policy of
importing the best from U.K.
herds, and so consolidating the
scale of his stud’s influence.
In 1-929 he bought Millhills
Rosicrucian, by Naemoor Iron-
clad "from Rosebreeze 3rd, to
follow Milton’s Masterkey as
top sire, and with him one
Basildon and two Bapton
heifers." From this blood was
established the Secret and
Crocus families, which pro-
duced such notable sires as
Coonong Napoleon and
Coonong Archer.
Further importations in-
cluded five more females from
the Bapton herd and, in 1934,
Calrossie Broadhooks Landlady
and Calrossie Flossy Virginia.
From these came five bulls,
including the great Coonong
0.8. E.
The stud grew so successfully
that it was difficult to run the
stud-cattle with the stud-sheep
on the Coonong property. The
Shorthorn stud was therefore
transferred to Borambola Park,


Established' 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institution•» throughout Australia
JACKSON &
O’SCCCrVAN
NL prY LTI) '
'«*>%!? 'k
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STF.REOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS ~
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
“I'd like a fountain just here."
though the “Coonong” prefix
was retained in the stud-book.
Meanwhile a new purchase,
Calrossie Red Baronet, was
soon recognised as the greatest
sire ever imported into-Aus-
tralia (eight of his sons and
grandsons won Sydney Royal
Championships, and he left his
mark on generations of stud-
animals throughout the
country). Five females were
imported just before War 11,
foundation-members of the
Cherry wood ‘ and Jealousy
families.
Mrs. McCaughey’s Boram-
bola Stud was founded in 1945
with two females from the
Coonong herd Coonong
Broadhooks Catherine sth and
Coonong Flossy Virginia, by
Calrossie Red Baronet from
the imported Calrossie dams
of those two families. Later
Calrossie Augusta Elsie (imp.),
by Millhills Champion, was
added.
In 1946 Calrossie Moonshine
was imported. Sired by Cal-
rossie Supremacy from. Cal-
rossie Broadhooks Bessie, be
proved a great female-breeder
and eventually over 60,000gn5.-
worth of stock by him was
sold.
Further importations
included Erimus Charlie, by
Kirkton Challenger from Non-
pareil Elena, and Calrossie
Tranquil, the present-day senior
stock-bull. In 1954 Chalmers-
ton Perfect by Chalmerston
Baronet, and Glamis Newsreel,
by Calrossie Highland Monarcn
from Jane Wimple, were
purchased for the stud. Glamis
Newsreel is the present junior
stock-bull.
The female families in the
herd at the present time com-
prise Augusta, Broadhooks,
Cherryvvood, Crocus, Flossy,
Fancy Lady, Jealousy, Lustre,
Martha, Princess Royal, Rams-
den, Rosewood and
Secret. Sires at present in use
are Calrossie Tranquil, with
Bapton Golden Miller and
Glamis Newsreel and also two
home-bred bulls (Coonong
Bradman, by Calrossie Tran-
quil, and Coonong Caesar, by
Bapton Golden Miller) as
juniors. Bulls of outstanding
merit bred in the Coonong-
Borambola studs were K.C.8.,
Legionnaire, Napoleon, 0.8. E.
and Borambola D.S.O.
Whatever the outcome of the
sale, the place of the Coonong
and Borambola beef-cattle studs
can never be changed in the
history of the Shorthorn in
Australia.
W.A. Trade with Asia
“Buzoe”: A piost valuable
means of opening-up West-
ralian exports direct to the Far
East is being provided by the
Blue Funnel Line, which will
run vessels direct from Fre-
mantle and other Westralian
ports to Hong Kong, Shanghai
and elsewhere in China and
Japan.
Such a service is badly
needed and will be of great
advantage to the State’s
exporters of wool, meat, live-
stock, minerals, timber and
fruit. Practically the only direct
trade at present is that with
Singapore and, when it works,
with Indonesia.
There’s a solid trade in the
shipment of live sheep to
Singapore. Last year some
130,000 wethers were shipped
from Fremantle, Geraldton and
north-west ports. This trade
was first established in the
1920’s and has been growing in
importance ever since. The
wethers are heavy, overweight
types, which are unsuitable
for the local market, and
which, at some seasons of
the year, could cause an em-
barrassing glut. Fortunately,
that is how the Moslem popu-
lation of Singapore and Malaya
like them.
Paspalum
Compressum
“Myall”: “W.C.Q.” (B.
11/6/’5B) defames Paspalum
compressum when he calls it a:
“worthless” grass.
True, it cannot compare with
P. dilcitatum as to bulk of feed
or vigor of growth, but it is
very palatable, and will stand
heavy stocking.
A native of U.S.A., where
it is known as Louisiana-grass,
it was introduced into Aus-
tralia some 50 years ago. On
poor, sandy stretches where P.
dilatatum will not thrive, it
can be highly productive. A
dairyfarmer on the Richmond
River (N.S.W.) reports:
“The poorer the land, the
better this - grass stands the
weather. One paddock would
not grow any grass, but now the
paspalum has covered the
whole of. it. It stands dry
weather and frost very well,
and my cows are doing well on
it. It will prevent soil erosion,
because of the thick mat it
forms on the surface.”
Of course, all grasses that
invade cultivations are pests
to a certain degree, but that
does not necessarily mean that
they are “worthless.” P. dilata-
tum, Rhodes-grass and kikuyu,
acknowledged to be three of
our best grasses, are. in that
category.
As for P. conjugatum, it’s all
that “W.C.Q.” says it is. Also
known as mission-grass, sour-
grass and yellow-grass, it is a
native of Queensland and is an
absolute curse, especially on the
Atherton Tableland.
Feed 'Em
“Prospect”: Dr. John
Hammond’s recent visit should
have reminded primary pro-
ducers of what he said more
than 20 years ago in The Breed-
ing of Farm Animals —that to
get good-quality meat you have
to keep poking the feed into
an animal from the time it’s
born until it’s ready for the
butcher, the quicker the better.
Early in life lambs, pigs and
cattle turn food into meat, but
later this runs to fat. Any
check in an animal’s growth
reduces the amount of lean it
can make, and results in too
much fat after the “topping-
off” period.
We place too much emphasis
on the “fat” beast. Fat may
look all right on a beast in a


kk
An exciting range
of SIX
attractive colours
for Bathroom and Kitchen Walls
Gay, colourful Wunderlich "Duradec" is
made in six modern decorative colours—
Pink, Grey, Green, Buff, Blue and Biack—-
flecked with white. - "Duradec" is wash-
able, scrubbable, economical and easy to
fix —available in waste-saving sheets,
6' x 3', 6' x 4', 7' x 3' and T x 4'.
Free : Write fo Wunderlich Limited. Dept.
"D." Box 474 u G.P.0., Sydney, for coloured
folder and sample.
62DDI
Decorated Wall Sheets
of Asbestos-Cement
Readily available from local distributors
paddock, but it never deceives
the customer, who wants no
more than the minimum cover-
ing needed for a joint to cook
well in the oven.
Planting Fruit Tress
“Sundowner”: For decidu-
ous trees a distance of 18ft. to
22ft. is satisfactory. On deep
soils and for large trees, such
as W.B.C. pears, spacing
should be up to 24ft.; for
oranges, up to 25ft.
In areas where land values
are high it’s worth considering
inter-planting—that is, setting
trees at half the distance apart
in one direction as a means of
increasing ~ early production
per acre. After about 10 years
or so the inter-plants can be
removed.
Inter-cropping with vege-
tables brings extra income
under natural rainfall condi-
tions for the first few years.
Under irrigation, however,
inter-cropping can be . dan-
gerous, particularly when, say,
tomatoes are grown amongst
peach-trees, because there is a
tendency to use more water
on the tomatoes than is needed
by the trees. Again, tomatoes
cropped with apricots are
liable to infect the trees with
black-heart disease. \
Trees should be heeled-in
after getting them from the
nursery, to prevent the roots
drying-out. Place the bundles
in a trench and cover with soil
until required.
Don’t dig individual holes
for the trees. . There is no
need for anything deeper than
the usual cultivation; and
holes can cause wet pockets.
Before planting, trim the
roots of the trees with
secateurs, cutting broken or
damaged roots back to healthy
wood. The strongest roots
should be placed- in the direc-
tion from which the prevailing
winds blow.
In dry conditions water
thoroughly after planting.
Cattle-melons
“North”: At the Laidley
(Q.) Show in June a cattle-
melon weighing 1301 b. was
exhibited. Years ago this
highly-productive plant was
widely grown, but iTseems to
have fallen into disfavor Tor
reasons hard to understand
The fruit is excellent fodder for
both cattle and pigs; the
plants yield more prolificacy
than pumpkins, and are more
certain under adverse weather
conditions.
The melon grows best and
produces the largest crops
when cultivated on - a deep,
light, loamy soil, but it will
thrive on any average fertile
ground. The land should be
ploughed deeply and enriched
with animal or artificial
manure. Chemical fertilisers
rich in potash will be the most
beneficial to the crop.
Holes 2ft. square and 1 Sin.
deep are spaced 12ft. apart
each way, the bottom of each
filled with bin. of rotted
manure. Replace the soil,
leaving a low mound of earth,
which should be slightly con-
vex on top. About September
or October sow five seeds in
each, and when the seedlings
have developed a few leaves
pull out the weakest, leaving
only two to produce the crop.
About 41b. of seed will sow
an acre.
The plants should be allowed
to ramble over the Held with-
out regulating or stopping.
Keep the weeds down while the
are young, and no
further attention will be
required.
The melons should be sliced
before being fed to stock.
Weedkillers for
Tomatoes
“Veges”: For tomato-
growing it has been proved that
chemical weed-killers give best
control of weeds. Experiments
at Victoria’s Tatura research-
station have shown that treat-
,ing the soil with either Allyl-
alcohol or Vapam a fortnight
before seed is sown gives
excellent results.
Satisfactory control of weeds
will be obtained for up to six
weeks if the following steps
are taken.:
Soil must be worked-up and
kept moist for a week to
encourage the weeds to
germinate before the chemicals
are applied with a watering-can.
Rates giving best results
without damage to the tomato
seedlings are: Allyl-alcohol,
2 pints to 100 square-feet in
•11 gals, water ; Vapam, 32 fluid
ounces to 100 square-feet in
12 gals, water.
Care should be taken in
handling the chemicals. Both
are poisonous. The fumes
should not b! inhaled or
allowed to come in contact
with the skin or eyes.
A week after application
lightly stir the soil to allow
gases to escape. After another
week the tomato-seed may be
sown. If, however, heavy rain
has fallen and prevented the
aeration of the soil it's best to
wait a bit longer before sow-
ing the seed.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(10/7/’5B)
Rainfall is likely to be patchy in Queensland during
August, with light to moderate rains on the coast and high-
lands. Moderate rains indicated in the southern half of
the State in September. Good general rains unlikely until
December.
There should be light to moderate rains in N.S.W. during
August, with reasonably good rain on the coast between
Port Macquarie and Jervis Bay. Rainfall patchy during the
spring months, but good general rains in December.
The Mallee and northern division of Victoria will
probably have only light to moderate rains in August,
although reasonably good rains should fall in the southern
half of the State. Good rains should continue in southern
Victoria and the western division for the rest of the year,
with general rains in December.
The upper-north and north interior of South Australia
are likely to get only poor rainfall during August., Light
to moderate rains in the Murray Valley and moderate to
good rains indicated in the rest of the State.
Rainfall should vary from light to moderate in the
south-west-and Eucla divisions of Western Australia during
August; good general rains should be received in September,
LENNOX WALKER.


Womew’s Letters
SYDNEY
The westerly wind blew through Sydney
during the week, reddening the com-
plexion, straightening out the curls, and
generally frazzling the nerves. As far
as the nerves were concerned, it was not
nearly as bad as the wind that blew
from the Middle East. An air of tense-
ness and worry could be sensed all
through the week, despite the “business
must go on” attitude that nearly every-
body chose to adopt.
☆ ☆ ☆
The most striking social event of the
week was, appropriately enough, the
premiere of the film “Dunkirk” at the
St. James Theatre, at which the
Governor-General, v Sir William Slim, was
present, and for which veterans of Dun-
kirk formed a guard-of-honor. Jr was
really one of the heartening things of
the week to meet these veterans and their
wives (there were about 80 present at
the premiere and the champagne-party
afterwards), and to know that they have
come to settle happily in Australia.
Mostly from the British Isles, there were
also Frenchmen, Czechs and Dutchmen.
The one “old Australian” among them
was Mr. lan Cowie, of Drummoyne.
The premiere was organised in aid of
Red Cross by the committee for the
Red Cross Ball. Mrs. Leonard Lloyd
Lewis, president of the committee, wel-
comed guests to a cocktail-party at the
Forum Club before the film, and after-
wards to a supper in the foyer of the
theatre, Her dress was a sheath of black
sequins topped by a white-fox cape.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Governor-General was present also
at the opening of the opera-season at the
Elizabethan Theatre on Friday. Among
those in the official party were Dr. and
Mrs. H. C. Coombs, Mr. and Mrs'. J. N.
Kirby, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Moses,
and Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Hunt. It was
quite a gala occasion, with a more-than-
usual number of long dresses worn.
Those who chose this more formal wear
included Mrs. C. R. McKerihan, Mrs.
Tom Bateman, Mrs. Walter Banning,
Mrs. Raymond Beatty and Mrs. James
Lawrie, who is, of course, singer Rosina
Raisbeck, and who looked magnificent
in black with a white fur and brilliants
in her hair.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Royal Aero Club’s dinner-dance
at the Wentworth Ballroom on Satur-
day was a gay affair. The first to be
held since the war, it attracted 270 guests,
all interested in flying, and apparently in
dancing also. Guests-of-honor were
Major-General Denzil Macarthur Onslow
and Mrs. Macarthur Onslow. The presi-
dent of the club’ Mr. Peter Lloyd,
welcomed the guests with Mrs. Lloyd.
A feature of the ball were the favors set
along the tables—little bottles of liqueur
for the men, lace-edged handkerchiefs for
the ladies. Dominating the decorations
was the 1 flag of the club, which features
a winged kangaroo. Among those who
came to the party were Mr. and Mrs.
Ken Hammond, Mr. and Mrs. H. C.
Hudson, Mr. and Mrs. H. A. Affleck
and Mr. and Mrs. P. Arantz.
0
Susan Triggs, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. H. J. Triggs, of Rose Bay, has just
become engaged to David Marina, of
Wonga, Young. There has been a round
of celebrations in honor of the occasion,
including polo festivities. Susan and her
fiance are planning to marry early in
the New Year. Her ring is most unusual,
a pear-shaped pearl with a diamond on
each side. Photo by Norton Trevaire.
Mr. Cliff Pier struck a note of gentle
irony when speaking at the opening of
the Australian Art Society’s 33rd annual
exhibition at David Jones’ Gallery. He
referred to the interest that the mem-
bers of the society kept in “that dreadful
thing called beauty,” and indicated that
the strange thing about these paintings
was that they were designed to please.
Composer Miriam Hyde, when opening
the exhibition, said that art could often
,prove the inspiration for music, and gave
as an example- her own composition,
“Forest Stream,”' which was inspired by
George Lambert’s painting of the
Marthaguy Creek. Mr. Alan Grieve,
whose painting, “Quarry Pool,” was
purchased for the National Gallery, said
that the exhibition should prove a little
spot of quietude in a turbulent art-
world.
•ft ☆ *
One of the most thought-provoking
comments which Professor Trethowen
made when speaking at the annual
general meeting of the Sydney University
Settlement was that the most prominent
factor in the breakdown of psental health
among old people is, loneliness. He also
quoted from surveys which showed that
the percentage of people over 60 in
mental hospitals had doubled in the past
25 years, and that the suicide-rate among
old people was higher in the wealth.er
parts of London than in the East End,
where there was less isolation. The
bright side of this sad picture is that
organisations such as the University
Settlement are continually drawing
together people who tend to become
isolated, and are providing a community-
centre for the districts in which they are
situated. Dr. Felix Arnott presided at
the meeting, which was attended by the
honorary life-president, Professor F. A.
Bland, and Mrs. Bland, and also by Mrs.
H. S. Wyndham, wife of the N.S.W.
Director of Education.
☆☆ _ ☆
The Young 20’s committee of the
Red Cross had apparently done a stal-
wart job of selling tickets for the
“Dunkirk” premiere, for the youthfulness
of the dress-circle audience made it
remarkably attractive. There were bil-
lowy dresses alongside 1920 chemises up
to the knees and swinging with fringe.
There were “headache bands” in abund-
ance, each with a jewel in the middle
like a caste-mark. There were urchin-
'Cuts and bouffant hair-do’s and buns
encircled with flowers. There were
swinging pearls, pointed shoes with
instep-straps, and skirts ranging from
the harem, the bell, the balloon, right
'through to the pumpkin. Tnougn there
were few furs, it was quite a parade of
the present fashion modelled by as pretty
a group as one could wish to see.
if #
Sydney’s first “automat” opened last
week and excited a good deal of interest.
It might make us feel modern if it did
not make us feel very slow. They seem
to have had automats in the U.S. for
countless ages. However, this one in
Sydney is very up-to-date in decor, and
rather fun to operate. The food sits in
a series of compartments with glass doors,
and above is the name of the dish thus
enclosed (rather like fish in an aquarium,
as a matter of fact). The customer
inserts 2s. in a slot, a light appears, he
turns a handle and the glass door opens.
One feels quite gratified when this hap-
pens, like winning the jackpot in a
poker-machine, though whether this sen-
sation will continue after the novelty has
worn off is not certain. The automat is
nowhere to go for a buttered scone and
a cup of tea. .Salami, roll-mops, Russian-
eggs and espresso-coffee are more in its
line.


MELBOURNE
The backdrop which dominated the
decor for the Lord Mayor’s Ball at the
Town Hall was a pictorial forecast of
what Melbourne will look like in the
future. The King Street bridge was com-
pleted ; there was an overpass for the
traffic; the railways at Jolimont had
been roofed; arid where the Western
Market now stands was a most imposing
skyscraper.
The Lady Mayoress, who stood on
the Town Hall steps with her husband
(Cr. F. W. Thomas) waiting to greet
the Governor and Lady Brooks, wore
a beautiful gown of pearl-tinted satin
which showed glimpses of poinsettia-red
satin beneath its panniered skirt, with a
cascade of the two materials falling from
the hip-lirie. The wide V-necked bodice
was folded to reveal a narrow border of
poinsettia satin.
.Her Excellency chose powder-blue
tulle appliqued with lace outlined with
beads and crystals. The Premier’s wife,
Mrs. Henry Bolte, wore a sheath-frock
of cream nylon-tulle which had an all-
over design of gold beads and pearls.
Lady Herring, wife of LieuL-Governor
Sir Edmund Herring, wore a gown of
midnight-blue brocade shot with gold,
the swathed collar caught at one shoulder
in a bow. _
Among other lovely creations were the
picture-gown of forget-me-not-blue tulle
with a cascade of pink roses down one
side of the skirt, worn by Mrs. J. G.
Williams; the Dubonnet-red satins of
Mrs. Douglas Cox; the graceful tur-
quoise-blue gown chosen by Mrs. F. H.
Rogan, wife of the Town Clerk ; Patrizia
Serafim’s crinoline gown of white tulle,
which sparkled with rows of diamente ;
Mrs. • Keith Laycock’s frock of heavy
white taffeta patterned in ice-blue coin-
spots ; Lady Selleck’s picture-gown of
ice-blue satin; her daughter Mrs.
Geoffrey Tolson’s white brocade pat-
terned with a small rose motif; and
Mrs. Tony Luxton’s frock of delphinium-
blue tulle, with bodice and wide skirt
embroidered with rhinestone motifs.
* ☆ *
The short theatre-frocks quite ousted
the formal gown at the third programme
of the New York City Ballet at Her
Majesty’s. Mrs. Terry Vaughan’s velvet
coat in champagne tonings covered a
lace frock in the same muted shade.
Under a mink coat Mrs. D. J. S.
Mackinnon wore a sequin-trimmed white
frock ; in her party were Dr. and Mrs.
Paddy Moran. Mrs. Eccles Mac Kay,
and Madame Borovansky, with Mrs.
Rupert Downes and her daughter Mrs.
James Campbell, the J. D. Carlsons, Mrs.
L. R. Bruxton and her daughter Beverley,
Mr. and Mrs. Eric Wahlquist and Mrs.
Andy Swan were also in the big audience.
S V .
At the afternoon-tea party at Menzies’
organised by the Women’s Group of the
Australian-Asian Association of Victoria,
the guest-of-honor, Madame Chen Tai
Chu (wife of the Minister Plenipotentiary
for the Republic of China), gave a talk
on “China and Her Outlook.” The
Banquet Room was transformed by a
wall-drape of Chinese-red and gold
embroidered-silk, carved Chinese chairs
on the dais and four hanging Chinese
lanterns. Adding to the atmosphere of
the afternoon were the incense-burners,
large and small, with incense-sticks burn-
ing in them. On individual tables were
candles and flowers, and the serviettes
were inscribed with the Chinese emblem.
The president of the group, Mrs. R. T.
Breen, assisted by vice-presidents Lady
Selleck and Mrs. John Chaldjian, wel-
comed the 200 guests, among whom were
Lady Lowe, Mrs. Graham JJall (wife of
the U.S. Consul-General), the wives of
various Asian Consuls, and Mrs. R.
Saxton, Mrs. Gillam Hunt. Mrs. T. R.
McKenzie, Mrs. S. Guilfoyle,
Esther Soong, Madame Grace Soong,
Mrs. Win Wan Sum and Mrs. Paky Chen.
Wendy, only daughter of Mr. Noel
Burbank, Q.C., and Mrs. Burbank, of
Toorak, recently made her debut after
leaving St. Catherines’s. She is now at
Mercer House doing a kindergarten
course, and also learns ballet, dress-
making and cooking. Wendy was a
member of the committee which organised
a successful dinner-dance to help the
building-fund of her old school.
That the Voluntary Helpers’ Shop in
Camberwell still continues to do sterling
work is attested by the cheque for £4OOO
it donated to the Overton Home at Kew.
The presentation was made by the presi-
dent of V.H., and is the fourth cheque
to be presented to this organisation ; the
amount donated by the shop to the five
homes it assists is now £72,000 —and, of
course, it thereby the Federal
Government subsidy of pound-for-
pound, bringing the total to £144,000
within four years. The Voluntary
Helpers have also provided their own
club in' Camberwell for elderly people,
and this was recently opened by the
Prime Minister. A continuous flow of
saleable goods is required to keep the
shop working efficiently. A telephone-
call to WB 1717 will bring a truck
to collect goods. Country folk can
address parcels to the Voluntary Helpers’
Shop, Camberwell, and these will be
carried freight-free on the railways.
# & '' V
Setting for the Yorick Club’s annual
at-home was the private dining-room in
the University’s Union House. Guests
were received by club president John B.
Wallace and Mrs. Wallace, the latter’s
lovely slim gown being of sea-blue satin-
brocade. With hon. secretary George
Todner was his wife, who wore a smart
black satin frock. Other guests were
Dr. and Mrs. Tom Crankshaw (she wear-
ing a formal gown of ice-blue faille, the
skirt featuring a loose black panel); artist
Vernon Jones and Mrs. Jones (her gown
of deep-grey silk-organza having a
bouffant skirt made over shell-pink
taffeta) ; Dr. Diana Furness and her
fiance Van Tolhurst (they will marry at
St. Michael’s Church, Vaucluse, on
August 23); Mr. and Mrs. Percy North-
rupp; and Mr .and Mrs. David Wallace
Smith (her cream satin brocade gown
contrasted with an apple-green silk-
taffeta stole).
CANBERRA
To celebrate Bastille Day the French
Ambassador and Mme. Renaud Sivan
gave a morning reception at the Embassy
residence attended by heads of diplomatic
missions and Government officials. Later
in the day My and Mme. Sivan enter-
tained members of the French community
of Canberra and French visitors from
the Snowy Mountains.
# v
When the Japanese Ambassador and
Mrs. T. Suzuki invited Canberra folk
to a special screening of ihe Japanese
film “Samurai” at the Capitol Theatre
the interest of those invited was so great
that even the bitter wind and rain of
the Sunday afternoon kept few away.
Winner of an international Academy
Award for the best foreign-language
film of 1956, “Samurai” was brought
to Australia for the Melbourne Film
Festival last month. Adapted from the
novel “Miyamoto Musashi,” by Eiji
Yoshikawa, the film tells the story of a
dramatic legend of 17th-century feudal
Japan. There is realism in the produc-
tion, and in splendid Eastmancolor
photography the scenic beauty of Japan
is an outstanding feature. Guests were
also shov/n two Japanese documentaries.
V # #
Members of the Business and Pro-
fessional Women’s Club of Canberra are
busy planning a full programme, which
should prove stimulating, for delegates
who will attend the 1958 conference of
the Australian Federation of B.P.W. in
Canberra next October. Lady Slim, wife
of the Governor-General (she is patron
of the club), will officially open the con-
ference and also entertain delegates at
a late-afternoon .reception at Govern-
ment House. A civic reception given by
chairman of the A.C.T. Advisory Council,
Mr. F. D. Quinane, is also on the agenda.


interests, and she would no
longer have her free nights
watched. She was determined
to confuse. Miss Peters, and to
lose her.
And so Miss Frobish got
off the tram in the city
and watched, almost happily,
as Miss Peters alighted at the
next stop. She sauntered down
the street then, looking in
shops and at people, enjoying
herself. Miss Peters was quite
close behind her.
She crossed a street that was
almost empty because the pic-
tures had gone in, and stopped
abruptly on the other side. She
could see, reflected in her
glasses, Miss Peters jumping
back in a doorway. It almost
made her laugh.
She walked down a lane-
way, dark and empty, and '
smiled to hear the footsteps
behind her. Really Miss Peters
was not very clever.
She came out into a main
street again and stared at a
boy and a girl who were walk-
ing by her, arm in arm. She
smiled to notice that the steps
behind her had stopped.
She walked up the street,
following the young couple,
watching through her glasses
Miss Peters’s eccentric progress
from doorway to doorway, so
obvious and yet so subtle.
She walked and walked,
playing her mouse-and-cat
game, turning corners, hesitat-
ing at shops. She came to the
Railway end of town. The
cheap-clothes shops stared at
her and the Greasy Joe cafes
gave out their smells. She
smiled at them all, giggled,
looked in windows. A tram
passed and she thought of the
people in it, seeing two elderly
ladies, one of them so odd, and
never guessing their game. She
laughed with excitement and
pleasure and turned into pne
of the quiet streets that led to
the Markets —a wide street, not
brightly lit; parked cars, no
sign of life. The footsteps
behind her were now very soft;
Miss Peters was being careful.
She hurried to confuse her,
and the trying-not-to-be-heard
steps hurried, too. She stopped
suddenly at a corner and spun
round. Miss Peters was not in
sight.
She walked'for another half-
a-block and then turned into
a lane. The footsteps were fol-
lowing, but she couldn’t hear
them all the time. Miss Peters
was quite clever; only, every
now and then there’d be a
scuffly noise, a little soft-shoe
dance as Miss Peters hurried
to catch-up, or tried to hide
if it looked as though Miss
Frobish might turn. All the
streets were dim in this part
of town, and Miss Frobish
had never been alone in them
before, even by day. It was too
dim for her glasses to reflect
Miss Peters.
Part of the fun was gone.
Suddenly Miss Frobish
was frightened. What if it
were not Miss Peters? Had
she been wearing rubber soles?
What if it were Miss Peters?
She had changed the lock on
her door ; she had had to. What
if it wttre Miss Peters? She
swung round in a panic and
looked behind her. There was
no one there.
She began to walk quickly,
telling herself to walk, not run,
in the direction of the Railway,
but she was not sure which
direction it was. She could hear
the footsteps sounding sinister,
or not hear them, which was
worse. She could hear her own
—one-two, left-right, a faint
echo. She turned again, terri-
fied, and again saw nothing;
saw a thousand things—the
arcking light, yellow and weak,
the shadows dim and darker,
still and moving. There was
no wind.
She turned and walked on
again, more quickly this time ;
but now she was sure. The
footsteps were on the other
side, across the road where
the tall warehouses cast their
shadows. She herself was on
the lighter side. She had chosen
it. There was no way she could
hide.
She tried to calm herself, to
slow her feet, and she found
that she was breathless, as
though she had been running.
Her quick breathing came out
in a sort of giggle. She mustn’t
be silly. She tried to stop it.
She mustn’t laugh. The effort
slowed here. Walking norm-
ally, she heard, frightened, the
echo of her own steps, gaining.
She lost all control then;
cried out; began to run. Her
killing shoes with their stilted
heels (Miss Peters had warned
her) jarred her feet and made
a stick-noise on the footpath.
The soft shoes scampered on
the other side of the road.
She came running out into
Broadway, among the lights,
with her hat awry and her
coat half-off her shoulders.
She was past the Railway, in
the dead end of town. The
street was quiet. There was no
tram ; the lines were empty ;
no taxi; no policeman. The
man at the tram-stop was
drunk.
She turned from him, half-
sobbing.
“Lillian, don’t! ” she said.
But what if it were not
Miss Peters. “Lillian, Lillian,
don’t!”
Che hurried towards the
Railway. There was a hotel.
She couldn’t go into it, not
where the people were
drinking.
She went through a quiet
door into a hallway that
seemed to be going to the resi-
dential section. She could hear
nothing ; but there, in the nar-
row hall with the hanging light
behind her, she felt suddenly
that there was someone in the
shadow in front.
She turned quickly and
looked back at the light. How
could Miss Peters be in front
of her? She forced herself to
walk through the shadow. The
hall turned. There was another
light. She stopped under it and
leant against the wall, listening.
There was no sound. She could
hear only her breath, and won-
der if it was hers.
There was a door and she
opened it.
It went into a yard full of
rubbish, empty boxes, barrels.
Their shapes made shadows.
She felt her way through them
to a little gate. She heard a
roaring noise, a car in the lane
outside. She wanted someone.
The noise was louder. She
pulled open the gate and
stepped outside.
The headlights blinded her.
The roar was deafening, on
top of her, like a dumper. She
half - jumped, half - fell back
against the gate and through
it. The car swerved.
“Drunken bitch,” someone
shouted.
She was on the ground. Her
arm was grazed. She was shak-
ing with fright. The car had
gone.
Her arm wasn’t much hurt
—she felt at it—but her coat
was torn. It was Miss Peters’s -
coat. She had borrowed it and
torn it. She began to cry. She
couldn’t see for tears. She
couldn't stop.
Crying, she got up and out
the gate, struggling .for her
handkerchief, dabbing at her
eyes. The tears kept coming
and she bit at her lips. She
staggered down the lane ’and
into the street, at the side of
the hotel, in the light. She
stood for a moment, dazed with
relief.
A man brushed against her
and said, “Sorry.”
She smiled gratefully and
whimpered. She rubbed the
handkerchief all over her face,
to wipe away the tears and
dirt. She pressed it into her
eyes because the tightness
made her head stop aching.
When she put it down, there
was someone standing beside
her ; it was Miss Peters.
At home they had tea.
“Lucky I happened to be
passing,” said Miss Peters.
“Nasty arm.”
“Yes,” said Miss Frobish.
“I rarely go to that part of
the town —too busy of a day,
too dead of a night. I thought
I ought to see it. Be a tourist
in my own city. Lucky it was
tonight.”
“I think,” said Miss Frobish,
“that I ought to go to bed.”
“Good idea. A fall always
gives you a shake. You’re
trembling. I’ll come and tuck
you in.”
“No. No, thank you.”
After Miss Frobish had gone
to bed, Miss Peters drank
another cup of tea and decided
to go to her, to tell her what
she knew and what she must
do. She went to the bedroom.
LEATHERHEAD
To be a leatherhead scrambling in ecstasy
Head-over-heels in a crimson bottlebrush-tree
With the blossoms to feed you, the shining leaves to hide
you
And a hump on your beak and your wife upside-down
beside you —
Never to bother any more about fame or money
But stand on your head all day and eat red honey :
Well then old bufflehead, leatherhead, l can’t imagine
It will really quite do, but thank you for the suggestion.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART


The light was shining under
the door.
“May I come in?” she said.
There was no answer.
“Anne-Marie. Anne-Marie.”
She tried the door. It was
locked.
In the morning Miss Teters
took breakfast on a tray to
Miss Frobish’s room. She
knocked and there was no
answer. She turned the knob
and the door opened. The bed
was empty.
A day-dress was gone from
the wardrobe. There was
nothing more to do. Miss
Peters put on her suit and her
gloves. She sat for a long while
holding the coat that Anne-
Marie had worn the night
before. It was a bad tear. She
got up and went out of the
house.
'T'he police-station was sub-
Durban and unconfused. The
young constable asked her
what she wanted.
“I have to report,” she
began. “I think it’s about a
Russian spy.”
“I can’t help you much,
then.” He grinned pleasantly.
“You’d better wait for the day-
crowd to turn-up. I’m here for
the night-calls ; they don’t trust
me with much else. The
sergeant’ll be here at nine.”
“It’s important,”, said Miss
Peters. “Possibly very im-
portant.”
“If you’ll just wait in there.”
“Listen,” she said, urgently,
impressively. “Do you know
of a Russian gentleman, Kirov,
P. Kirov, at seventy-two Pat-
terson Street?”
“No,” said the young con-
stable, grinning. “But I know
there’s no such number. Pat-
terson Street has houses on one
side of it —the odd side.”
Miss Peters stared at him.
“Now, if you’ll just wait in
there,” he said again, pointing.
“I’ll get my report finished.
You won’t be lonely. There’s
another lady there. Come to
report a mad woman, but she’s
not too bright herself. Now
don’t you be frightened ; she’s
nothing like that. Very nice.”
He glanced at Miss Peters’s
left hand automatically.
“An old maid, you know.
We get a lot like that. They
start to think things. But they
don’t do any harm. It’s usually
a man under the bed. You wait
there and I’ll bring you both
some tea.”
Miss Peters went into the
waiting-room. The other
woman was Miss Frobish.
“Anne-Marie,” she said.
“Anne-Marie, come home.”
“Oh Lillian, I’m frightened.”
The waiting-room was big,
(Continued foot next col)
empty and cold. It made them
feel warm to step out into the
air. The constable laughed at
them and called good-bye.
“Come back at nine,” he
said.
“What a nice young man,”
said Miss Frobish. “Didn’t
you think he was nice? I’ve
always preferred big, young
men —young, and big. Was
that a wicked thing to say?”
M ermaid
By O.F.
I always like dining with
Carruthers, particularly
after he’s been fishing in
that sleek launch of his.
He cooks fish perfectly and his
wine is unexceptionable.
He put his fork down and
poured me another glass.
“Really, old man,” he said, “it
was the kind of morning you
wouldn’t believe, even if you'd
been there.”
That sort of remark puts a
doubt in your mind straight-
away, of course—-if it comes
from anyone except Carruthers.
He is not one to minimise or
exaggerate. A bachelor,
comfortably-off, and with a
selective taste in food, wine and
women, he can afford to tell the
truth. And his level, casual
gaze and beautifully modulated
voice are utterly convincing.
“The sea was as smooth as
satin,” he said. “And soft
as a woman’s breast. The coast
—I was about five miles out
—was only a shadow through
the mist. A strange kind of
mist, too. Rather more than
a haze, but it hung so low that
the vapor seemed to be rising
from the sea itself. And the
sun! It had just come up and
was like a disk of orange glass,
a window with a furnace behind
it.
“I swung the launch and
ran south, trying to pick up the
landmarks through the haze.
I couldn't be sure I was over
the reef, but I cut the motor
and swung round to drift with
the current: there was no wind.
“I baited-up I’d caught a
bonito on the way out —and
threw over. The fishing was
very slow and there was some-
thing vaguely disturbing about
the whole atmosphere; silent
and oppressive, as though a
storm were brewing.
“Even the birds seemed rest-
less. The mutton-birds were
landing and taking-off almost
immediately, and two big
mollyhawks which came down
in the water were gone again in
a few moments. And there
was something odd about the
way they went, too. I usually
laugh at them —the way their
big behinds wobble and their
feet splash and paddle at the
water to get them off. But this
time there was more urgency
than comedy in their take-off.
“I had a couple of bites. The
The first was a big morwong;
you could tell by the way he
held the bottom ; and the other
was a big red, but I lost them
both. It felt like a shark taking
them —you know the sudden
weight that hits your line and
the uselessness of trying to
hold it.
“I rigged again and tossed
in. Sqmething touched the
bait and I struck at it and
thought I’d hooked the bottom;
you know, the old terra firrtia
fish. Then I really had some
movement nothing like a
shark ; more like a jewie in
the hundred-pound class. I
played it for half-an-hour,
holding it as tight as I dared
—you know how jewies can
throw the bait. I was really
sweating and the, nylon had
played the merry devil with my
fingers.”
Carruthers held out his long
and graceful hand to show me
the fine cuts the line had made
on his forefinger.
“Well, to. make it briefer than
it actually was, I finally got
her up. Yes, her. The only
mfermaid I’ve ever seen, or
expect to see.
“T’d had the gaff ready, but it
~*-hardly seemed a gentlemanly
thing to use, so I leaned over
and grabbed her by the arms
and hauled her in.
“The beautiful little bitch
bit me on the arm, and I
slapped her smartly and
dropped her on the deck. She
thrashed her tail and reached
for the side. I slipped a hitch
around her middle and lashed
her to a thwart. Then I sat
back for breath.
“Well, old man, I can
generally tell whether by look-
ing in a girl’s eyes, if you’ll
pardon the old line . , , but
not this one. There was neither
hate nor fear in them ; just
cold green glass looking at me.
Could have been someone from
Mars, though Venus might be
more appropriate.
“My hook had caught her
on the shoulder; there was
a trickle of blood running
across her breast and mixing
with the drops of salt-water.
It was hard to believe that red
blood could come from such
white flesh. When the hook
had caught her she had
apparently tried to free it and
thoroughly tangled herself in
the line. That’s how I’d got
her up.
“She was blonde, by the
way, and not unattractive. A
fine bosom and a nice waist
down to where her hips began
to taper. That’s about where
the scales started and her really
magnificent tail began. I’d
never believed in mermaids, of
course, but this settled it. Who-
ever started the story must
have seen one, because here
she was, right of the book.
“I had a ridiculous urge to
talk. In fact I did say some-
thing fatuous and the sound or
the movement made her
struggle furiously. I saw she
was slipping the rope and went
forward to lash her tighter,
hut she broke free and we
wrestled all across the deck.
Quite an experience, really.
There was no hope of hanging
on to that tremendous slippery
tail, so I grabbed her -round
the waist.
“Once or twice in the past
when I’ve been wrong about
women, I’ve met some pretty
stiff opposition, but nothing
like this. She scratched and
bit and thrashed me with her
tail until I rolled her over and,
in desperation, stunned her with
the side of my hand across
the neck. Then, rather more
than shaken,. I started the motor
and made for home.”
And, sure enough, there were
scratches and teeth-marks
on the side of Carruthers’s
face.
“It’s the most extraordinary
story you've ever told me,” I
said. “But show me the
evidence, and I’ll believe it.”
“Evidence,” Carruthers said.
“What do you mean?”
“Where is she, of course?”
“Oh,” he said. “You’re a
day too late. You know the
people around here always
expect something when I go
outside. There was over sixty
pounds of fish in that tail. A
little coarse, perhaps, but” —
he lifted his fork —“you must
admit the flavor is delicious.”


like a mauled animal out into the
snow, staining it with the gore of his
thrashing. His belt and revolver
were flung out after him. Keith
Butterworth took a fresh sheet of
paper and started his sketch all over
again. He smiled at the incredulous
looks we gave him.
“Singapore kaput,” he said apolo-
getically.
And what happened to Butterworth
after that? Not a thing. But of course
Sergeant Leug didn’t forget, and later
in the piece, when Butterworth had
persuaded Fischer the picket to let him
out to the latrine late at night and
against regulations, Sergeant Leug
appeared with a lamp and raised his
pistol:—
Butterworth dashed out of the
beam of light and snatched up a
piece of wood. He struck with all
his might. As Leug slumped to
the ground his head hit an iron foot-
scraper. The Prussian’s skull shat-
tered with egg-shell ease. Dr.
Cybulki and I were called out. Leug
couldn’t have been more dead.
Fischer hesitated only a moment.
Without a word being spoken, he and
Butterworth picked up the bulky
corpse and staggered into the latrine.
We ripped off the bank of serrated
seats. There was no noise that could
be defined. It was neither thud nor
splash. The seats were carefully
replaced.
This is the peak of Chapman’s
entertainment, better than the scene
where all the British walked out of a
parcels-distribution because the British
sergeant said the parcels were for
British and not Australians, or Chap-
man’s encounter in an air-raid shelter
with a German nurse, or Colonel,
Francis’s last-minute save of 'Captain
Goddard, who was carrying a radio
in a Red Cross haversack and had
been lined-up for kit-inspection.
Naturally, to give the true prison-feel,
there are a great many parts of it not
so exciting (it represents 1100 pages
of notes). But like the best of the
p.-0.-w. books, here is another to sur-
prise the reader who thinks he knows
all man is capable of, both friend and
enemy. x
A. D. Hope Record
The latest in the “Brolga” series of
records of Australian poetry produced
by the Recording Society of Australia
is a recital of his own poems by A. D.
Hope. The total playing-time of the
two sides is about fourteen minutes.
On the wrapper of the record is an
excellent analysis of the poems by
James McAuley, and the selection has
been well chosen: “Pyramis,” “Invo-
cation,” “Australia,” “Circe,” “The
Death of the Bird,” “Imperial Adam”
and “The Lamp and the Jar.” The
reproduction is clear, as is Hope’s read-
ing; and the fault of too much haste —•
too brief a pause between one poem
and the next —which occurred in the
society’s previous Mary Gilmore record,
has been avoided.
Inquiries about the record should be
directed to the Society at Box 572,
G.P.0., Sydney.
”The Sweeniad"
One of the strangest literary
phenomena of our very strange literary
times has been (if an absence can be
b phenomenon) T. S. Eliot’s virtual
immunity from criticism.
He has, of course, often enough been
attacked by the wrong sort of critics,
people altogether out of sympathy with
him and with modern poetry generally;
but criticism from the “inside,” from
writers well aware of his wonderful dis-
coveries of rhythm and poetic method
-—his significance in mood, language
and subject-matter as the poet of the
20th century —but at the same time not
afraid to recognise his manifest weak-
nesses, has been exceedingly rare.
No poet'in the past has been immune
from the hostile critic, the satirist and,
most deadly of all, the parodist; and so,
sooner or later, whatever the age’s
tendency to close the ranks, Myra
Buttle’s The Sweeniad (Seeker and
Warburg) had to come. It is partly a
parody of Eliot’s verse and partly a
savage' attack on his philosophy and
ideas. And if the parodies of “The
Waste Land,” “Four Quartets” and
bits of “The Hollow Men” seem sacri-
legious, it is no more than Browning
had to suffer in Calverley’s equally
wicked (and equally justifiable) parody
of “The Ring and the Book”: —
Between the mystification
And the deception
Between the multiplication
And the division
Falls the Tower of London.
For the purpose of attack it would
have been better to concentrate on the
later plays, which have become a kind
of mass-hallucination and which Miss
Buttle, though indeed not benevolently,
hardly touches. The parodies of the
poems are, willy-nilly, a flattery by
imitation. Miss Buttle has obviously
got Eliot’s rhythms “in her bones,”
as have all receptive readers of modem
poetry. But the sting is in their reversal
of his philosophy and, reinforced by
the prose criticism, their revelation of
how readily we accept mumbo-jumbo
as incantation. The “Sweeney in Arti-
culo” section is indeed Eliot; the style
and the method caught to perfection; at
once wickedly funny, a salutary criti-
cism, and a recognition of how memor-
able is the verse:—
Sunday is the dullest day, treating
Laughter as a profane sound, mixing
- Worship and despair, killing
New thought with dead forms.
Weekdays give us hope,- tempering
Work with reviving play, promising
A future life within this one.
Thirst overtook us, conjured up by
Budweisserbrau
On a neon sign: we counted our
dollar bills.
Then out into the night air, into
Maloney’s bar,
And drank whisky, and yarned by
the hour.
Das Herz ist gestorben, swell dame,
echt Bronx.
And when we were out on bail, stay-
ing with the Dalai Lama,
My uncle, he gave me a ride on a
yak,
And I was speechless. He said,
Mamie,
Mamie, grasp his ears. And off we
went
Beyond Yonkers, then I felt safe.
I drink most of the year and then I
have a Vichy.
It could not be said, however. That
there is much intention to flatter,
consciously or unconsciously, in the
prose criticisms among which, arranged
in vaguely dramatic form, the parodies
are embedded.
Miss Buttle is here chiefly concerned
to argue that Eliot’s immunity from
criticism has been due to the fact that,
writing on religious themes, he has been
taken up by the churches and made
sacrosanct; and that his poetry shows
no interest in the two world wars or
in the troubles of the poor. The first,
except that intellectual timidity and
snobbery—the fear of not being in the
swim—have also played a big part, is
obviously a true bill; but it hardly
seems fair (not that satirists have ever
wanted to be fair) to accuse Eliot of not
caring about suffering humanity. One
may not care for the way he cares about
it, but really that has, been his sole
theme.
Afid who, after all this, and with
some parodies of Auden and Dylan
Thomas and some delightful Chinese
ideograms and deaf-and-dumb signs
from Ezra Pound thrown in, may be
i Miss Myra Buttle? She is, it appears,
on the authority of Edmund Wilson in
“The New Yorker,” Victor Purcell, a
lecturer in Far Eastern affairs at Cam-
bridge, the author of a fearful epic
poem called “Cadmus”: —
The chapter .closes in climatic rigour -
Which tests the mammals’ (balance
and their vigour—
and, fortunately in prose, “The Spirit of
Chinese Poetry.” Shown around in a
privately printed edition the satire has


The story of a struggle for power in Africa.
BY THE NORTH GATE
by GWYN GRIFFIN
Set in a former Italian colony in Africa, this is the story of a struggle for control of a
district between the nominal head and a half-caste who has been the actual ruler. Their
manoeuvres to discredit each other and complications caused by amorous intrigues make
a satisfying action drama. 18/9 (post 9d.)
At all booksellers and . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD..
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
won approval from such august authori-
ties as H. R. Trevor-Roper, Regius Pro-
fessor of Modern History at Oxford,
and F. L. Lucas, Reader in English at
Cambridge. Conrad Aiken (a fellow-
poet) found it “delicious,” and Graham
Greene (somewhat surprisingly to this
reviewer) remarked “Bravo!” on a
postcard.
Thor Heyerdahl
The large sale of the story of the
Kon-Tiki expedition (R.P. 28/5/’5B)
has helped, I think, towards the financ-
ing of several subsequent scientific
expeditions that have not hit the
popular press. It is to be hoped that
“Aku-Aku,” obviously another popular
book, will be of similar assistance.
Subsequent to the publication of
“American Indians in the Pacific,” the
following scientific works by Heyerdahl
have appeared in monograph form:
Guara Navigation: Indigenous Sailing
off the Andean Coast (reprinted from
the “South-western Journal of Anthro-
pology,” University of .New Mexico,
Albuquerque); The Balsa Raft in
Aboriginal Navigation off Peru and
Ecuador (reprinted from same journal);
Archaeological Evidence of Pre-Spanish
Visits to the Galapagos Islands
(Memoirs of the Society for American
Archaeology, “American Antiquity,”
University of Utah Press, Salt Lake
City).
Although the discovery of pottery on
Easter Island (“Aku - Aku”) is
apparently the first within the Poly-
nesian area proper, Inca and pre-Inca
pottery fragments and other artifacts
were unearthed by the joint American-
Norwegian expedition on various
islands of the Galapagos group. The
results of the Easter Island expedition,
popularly described in “Aku-Aku,” will
be published in two volumes by the
School of American Research and the
Laboratory of Anthropology in co-
operation with the Museum of New
Mexico.
W. Hart-Smith.
Reviewed Briefly
I Keep My Word: J. M. Scott
(Heinemann). The ship in which a
young woman is returning to England
from India in 1820 is captured by cor-
sairs—the men slaughtered, the women
left to drown. The heroine survives,
Jnd dogs the corsair chief up and down
Italy. She is helped by his turning-out
to be not a corsair at all but the son of
a good Italian family who is wanted
oy the Government. She gets him, of
pourse, and in circumstances apparently
to be ironical. At times it
reads like a parody of the period
adventure-story, particularly in its des-
criptions of Venice and Rome, which
sound like stage-props, and in its stilted
period-dialogue. But it is told at a
good pace and should please anyone
addicted to this genre.
* * * *
The Philadelphian: Richard Powell
(Hodder and Stoughton). This is not
only a story of a struggling young
Philadelphian lawyer and hi s
immediate antecedents, but a picture of
the Philadelphian way of life and a
commentary on it. The atmosphere of
snobbery and social privilege which
permeates the book is displayed with
composure and even approval by the
author, whose aim is to show how a
clever young man can without cynicism
climb to the top of the tree. His hero
is tricky without being cunning and
some of his tricks, particularly in the
courtroom, where such things seem
standard, are amusing to read about,
especially as his motives are invariably
of the best.
* * * *
Give Me the Wings: Harald Penrose
(Cassell). The publishers make the
obvious comparison between Penrose
and Saint Exupery; but it might have
been better for Penrose if he had never
read the Frenchman—this is an excel-
lent book of flying-experiences marred
by gush ... “A bird was singing in
the hedge: many birds were singing.
Their song was jubilant, rising trium-
phantly to the skies—and through the
song I heard a far voice calling, calling,
promising most wondrous things.” Bht
the flying, in everything from an ancient
Avro to an Me 109 and the author’s
own sailplane, remains very good.
« * *. *
The Assize cf the Dying: Edith Par-
geter (Heinemann). In the first of the
three stories of this book a man con-
demned to death for murder places a
curse on the judge, the counsel for the
prosecution, the foreman of the jury
and the unknown guilty man—all of
whom he holds responsible for his con-
viction. He summons them to the
Assize of the Dying, and, of course,
within a short time, they are all dead.
It is a dramatic opening to a skilfully
written story of detection, but the solu-
tion is disappointing because the mur-
derer’s motive is based on an odd
psychological twist of which no earlier
evidence has been given.
* * * *
The Fourth Victim: Pamela Barring-
ton (Barker). The lord-of-the-manor’s
new wife comes home from France to
the manor, makes love to her husband’s
step-brother, conspires with the step-
brother to gain her husband’s resigna-
tion from the chairmanship; then, when
her husband is found dead with a
revolver in his hand, she hurries back
to France to a young Frenchman who
has taken her fancy. Step-brother
researches into her past: why had she
married rich man after rich man; why
have her husbands all died? As a
mystery, not mysterious enough; as a
thriller, not naughty enough.
WAVES
As they come in, fast and masterful,
almost
Marching, a race regimented, a host
As alive as an army, as impersonal, lost;
Tragic lives which the loneliness of battle
Storming the land, crowds with the
deafening rattle
Of surf like gunfire, continuous and
always
Contiguous on death; I have felt their
craze,
Following them with my eyes in the blaze
Of summer sun, through the haze of
winter ;
And runs through my veins a desire to
enter
Each new-formed rank and charge with
them somewhere,
Somehow, upon a world which I know
they’re
Spoiling; measuring their meed of glory :
for
There is a surge in all blood, alas, to war.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


//
Vlf
'\
Ulack Oilskin Type ( oats A: Trousers.
Extra shoulder Cape type, in first-class
condition. l»es( <iutility. Price, Coats
:>(•/- each. Trousers ‘i'i, (i or pair 5(1
Brand New Trousers
Brand new
K.A.A.F. (iaber-
il i n e 15 I u e
Trousers. Sizes
from waist.
Ineludintr frac-
tional fittinjjs in
leu lengths and
Belt J,onps on
waist. Price 55 -
pr. Well worth
double. Post 4/-
ex t ra.
Brand new Khaki Brill
Shirts. MIS size only-
I’riee 15/- each, post 2/-.
Brand new Moollfii Knee
I.engtli Underpants. Sizes
tSXin. waist only. I*riee 10/-
l>r.. postage 2 /-.
Brand new Woollen Athletic
Army Singlets, all sizes.
I’riee 1/11 and 1/- postage.
Set Five Brand New Pure
Bristle PAINT BRUSHES.
Set in rubber. Sizes 4in.,
Sin., 2in., I'iin.. lin.
Price 32 6 set
Post 3/0 extra.
BRAND NEW
GEAR
R.A.A.F.,
R.A.A.K
INN K K
I'LVIN(i
SI ITS
,1 uk I tlie
thing for
\v i n t e r
\v e a t li e r.
Kapok lined
full length
zipper. Tits
s a II S' I ,V
under over-
alls. e t r.,
ul I size s.
Price M ea.,
post £>/■
extra. Keep
warm.
rr
dying Caps, brand new,
chamois lined, ideal for
motor cyclists. All sizes.
Price 1!) ti each, post ;i
extra. Also Ivid Leather
dying (•aiintlets, fur lined
and wrist - length zippers.
Price pair all sizes, post
Mi extra. This is an
R.A.A.I'. issue and hand*
could not make better.
PACKS —
Ex-Army
19/6 ea.
"N
m
Ex-Army .Side Haversacks.
AVel). I’rice 12 (>, postage 'i, <>
ox 1 ra.
Good
Condition
I’ost 3/<>
m
•: .v. .
t M
Wm
Khaki
Battle
Jackets
E.v-arm.v battle dress jackets,
kliaki lumber style, woollen
serge. Perfect condition, all
sizes up to 40in. cbest.
Price *1 .V -e, icli. Post 3/-.
BRAND
NEW
Single Beds. Brand new.
Size rilt. Bin. as illustrated.
I’riee 5!) (>. Size 3ft. Tubular
Knd Bullish Vonii. I’riee
l:f/ 10/- eaeli. Worth double.
Tubular Steel
Folding Stretchers
Tubular SI relehers in per-
fect condition. Ideal for
weekenders, shearers, spare
beds, etc. Priee Ma - each.
EX-ARMY
MATTRESS
Single
l size.
Price
- each
BJLANIvKTS. AI.L HOOf;.
Brand nrw single lied size,
Pfiee iPi (! each. Kx-Army
repaired blanket*, price J5/-
Pillows, brand new,
kapok, price ■"> - each. Brand
new Palliasse*, hcav.i duty
l>e Snuti cHiivas, price 19 <>
each. Post 3 <> exlra.
SKID CHAINS
Brand new.
All sizes in-
cluding Blitz.
Sizes up to
1050 x 18.
Price £B/10/-
pr. In lots of
12 or more.
£6/10/* set
Brandi New Flexible
Pouring Nozzles
AVill fit any t gal. drum.
Complete with serew-in
strainer and looking clip.
Price 12/6 each
Tv '
■<s&
■JLH
Heavy Duly Winter
Waterproof and lined. All
sizes. I’riee i~i. Don't de-
lay. I’ostaire 5/ - extra.
PACK SADDLES
Kx-A riny reem'idi tinned
A
v. !
Price £l2/10/- ea.
Iriding SADDLES
Brand new Stock and I’oley.
fully mounted, £‘2o. Boys
and Bills’ Saddles, fully
mounted, £l3/10/-.
JEEP
65
65
65
Special release. Jeep uni-
versals (Willy*). Briiiul ne'.v
complete. I’riee 65, - each.
Post :{/- extra. Don't delay.
CHEVROLET"
GEAR BOXES
BKAN D MiW
Lend
Lease
Chev.
Mim,
Price
£6O ea.
PORTABLE HOISTS
©
u
IiKAM) NK«' K.A.A.T.
BOMB HOISTS
Can be riy;fte<l up to many
uses. l-'ive ewt. ea |>a city.
Price £l2 10 - eaeli.
TOWING CHAINS
E.V-A li.'lV HEAVY DUTY
Briin<l new. Complete with
riiif; honk and sliaekle. I’riee
J5O - each.
STEEL BOXES
S/ze
A.
3'/o*/*S‘
STOCKS & DIES
Q
B.A. Sets SloeUs and dies.
Brand New, complete set
in 2 case?. Sizes 0-1!*. In-
clusive price. £5/10/ set
in lots.
Telephone Wire—Brand New
ii
■A-.
Aiisi r a 1 i » n
Army type
single core,
£:i/li)/fi mile,
Amcr i c a n
Army type
single core,
£2/10/- mile.
/,-mile foils,
13/6 each.
Apart from
being used as
Tele p hone
wire it can be
nse<l for vines, etc., also femes, 300 uses.
rLKASK 'W KIT IS NAMJE AND ADDHKSS PLAINLY AND IN BLOCK
MiTTKRS. NO (.0.1). MAIL OK VHON'B NO 0.0.1).
Add Jtixelvange to Cheques. AN hen delivered at Siding, please add freight.
KING’S
LEATHER GOODS TYRES
J-A9155, FA 7091, MX395+
MAIL ORDER
£acUUeSuf
GENERAL MERCHANTS
AFT KB HOIIKg FJ1240
specialists
122-124 DEVONSHIRE ST., SYDNEY
Off Elizabeth Street, at Subway End of Central Station.
30 SPANNERS
in Free Tool Box
TOOL
BOX
A mixture of 30 spanners i
Free Tool Box. Comprising
open emler, ring and In
I*riee i's/5/-.
