

The Bulletin
Unemployment and Productivity —pass 20
Wednesday, January 29, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Eegistered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"Oh, did you? Well, you con shove-off hack to the Soviet Union”


BOOKHUNTER, Box £€7l, G.P.0.,, Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you- fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
NEW NILAND WALKABOUT
People certainly get around in
D’Arcy Niland’s novels. In Call Me
When the Cross Turns Over (Angus
and Robertson) the wanderer is
Barbie, recently orphaned on an opal-
field; she promises to deliver a parcel
to a husband and wife not much given
to staying in the same place themselves,
and this takes her by cattle-truck to
Adelaide; thence to Tambourine, where
she finds the husband-and-wife act
working a farm, the husband going
mad, so that Barbie is forced out, and
takes a job as housemaid in a
Tambourine pub.
There she meets Fascinatin’, half-
brother to her mad-farmer friend; he
is 100 ft. tall, 75ft. wide; Barbie loves
Fascinatin’; Fascinatin’ loves Barbie;
but while Fascinatin’ is off fencin’ to
earn money for the honeymoon
another woman calls on Barbie with
a letter written by Fascinatin’ to the
effect that Fascinatin’ loves Bearer.
Irritating to Barbie, this is a turn-up
for the book, because it sends Barbie
on her travels again to a short
description of Broken Hill, and then
back to the opal-field, where a lovely
bloke called Joe drifts in and Barbie
marries him on the bounce. After the
honeymoon Barbie and Joe meet
Fascinatin’ at the Purnamooka show-
ground; Fascinatin’ insults Barbie, and
although Joe is only 75ft. tall and 50ft.
wide he k.o.’s Fascinatin’, though the
spectators murmur that Fas’ has been
pulling his punches. Thereafter Barbie
and Joe go trapping in the Dogwood
Gorge country, and Joe, having
collapsed and died with a weak heart,
and Barbie having staggered into the
nearest settlement carrying her dead
baby in her arms, the way is made clear
for her reconciliation with Fascinatin’.
Altogether, one would rather believe
in Father Christmas; but there is a
good picture of Fascinatin’, as the
human buck jumper, going about the
dislodgment of a crack abo. horse-
breaker who is riding on his back and
rowelling his stomach with spurs, and
there are enough curious types to make
it clear why the Australian theatre is
so short on comedians —they’re all
working for D’Arcy Niland.
NO TRAGEDY
Saying goodbye was like
Two white swans upon a lake—-
It seemed more dignified.
Afterwards she sighed.
Say how beautiful indeed
The day by willow and weed.
It was no tragedy there,
Near stucco, in the autumn air.
But now those dark birds float,
Fearful cf those who dote
Or use excessive words,
As far more dismal birds.
England.
R. A. Simpson.
Sir William Macleay
David S. Macmillan, archivist in
Sydney University, has made an extra-
ordinarily pleasant little book of the
life of Sir William Macleay, A Squatter
Went to Sea (Currawong), a book
which should help to justify the rising
interest of our day in the Mid-
Victorians.
Much of the charm of the second
half of last century lies in the solid
security of . . . those who were solidly
secure, and the naturalness with which
so many of them combined political,
social and business activities with
some huge hobbyhorse of scientific
research. William Macleay, a young
Scot whose medical studies were cut
short by poverty, arrived in Australia,
aged 19, in 1839, to his Uncle
Alexander, a rich squatter, also
Colonial Secretary, founder of the Aus-
tralian Library, establisher of Sydney
Botanic Gardens, co-founder of the
Australian Museum—quite a big bug.
Uncle Alexander put young William
on his Murrumbidgee station, and then
William established his own station of
Kerarbury, and by 1844 had made
his fortune in wool.
In the early 1850’s he put the station
under an overseer and moved to
Sydney; was elected to the Legislative
Council in 1855; in the same year estab-
lished the Wagga “Express” news-
paper; in 1852 he had founded the
Murrumbidgee Turf Club; in 1856 he
was a founder of the Sydney Union
Club; in 1857 he married the daughter
of Colonial Secretary Thomson, who
had succeeded his uncle; and in 1865
he moved into one of the most beautiful
houses ever put up in Sydney, Elizabeth
Bay House, built by Uncle Alexander
and now leased to him by Cousin
George.
In the same year, 1865, his cousin
William Sharp Macleay died and left
him his great collection, mainly of
insects. William, who had himself
been collecting for some years, drew
more and more away from politics and
society towards the scientific studies
of his youth, and for connoisseurs of the
ease and grace of mid-Victorian life
the next few chapters make a most
satisfying picture: the most beautiful
of houses, surrounded then, as it is
not now, by gardens brought from all
over the world; the lovely young wife
being escorted to balls by her husband,
who would leave her there and dash
back home to make more classifications
of fish, animals and shells with his
hard-working curator, George Masters;
the Sunday “whisky-parties,” when
rich amateurs of science would
assemble to see for the first time such
things as “a bird of paradise from
New Guinea” . . .
All of which leads to the great event
of the book; the buying of the 300-ton
French-built barque Chevert for £3OOO,
and her equipment to make a scientific
expedition to New Guinea.
Nothing in the expedition quite
matches the enchantment of its depar-
ture. As friends see-off a departing
traveller with gifts of things that may
be useful on a holiday, so friends of
this privately - equipped expedition
rallied round; T. S. Mort lent an
ice-making machine; Sir William
Macarthur sent two of his best
gardeners, equipped at his own
expense; Lawrence Hargrave, the
judge’s son, volunteered as engineer
for the steam-launch; Macleay super-
vised loading in a duck-suit with a
peaked -cap, bought 2000 Havana
cigars to sustain him in the tropics
and received from a friend a cask of
brandy and a hogshead of rum to add
to eight quartex-casks and some
octaves of Camden wine.
The ship being moved out into the
stream, a man swam out to ask to
become Macleay’s secretary. There
was an afternoon inspection by
Macleay’s wife, “Susan, in a ravishing
blue dress, fully bustled, and cut
extremely low, accompanied by some
of her lady acquaintances.... all with
parasols and neat but elaborate little
hats,” helped with difficulty into the
longboat, rowed round the Chevert by
Kanakas, hoisted aboard in an arm-
chair, shown over the ship and given
afternoon - tea. A Parliamentary
banquet was given in honor of the
expedition; a meeting in Sydney
Exchange urged the annexation of New
(Continued on page 58)
TO A YOUNG GIRL
I see you rise and stretch and yawn
Like creatures seen far undersea.
Perhaps we are akin, at least
In blaming time that always moves
To suit itself, not you or me.
My dear, you do not comprehend
That you awake, though not from
sleep,
As shells in sea awaken slowly—
But we, across the gulf, are dosing
Like hosts cf clams within a deep.
England.
R. A. Simpson.


(Tn-
/<r • *
» < „• <>
5
Sts
e 4
(ri.v
Epk
MELBOURNE
iSi
.(i
Jjcs
*><#
ADELAIDE
~"" UTii li Mil 111iiini ■■■ ■
SYO«iI
p*>t
m
ND 0 N
52
:*3i
*
“EE 10 Mr.
IN
*
V*
w
W,t>
W
sfv
&
s
~\j. f<
• V-
t-SH'-'i'.'
■ ‘ M.
®7cW.
V» A*"
» 7
>l// Over Australia...
North, South, East, West, throughout this fair land of ours, Elders have developed, giving to the “Man-
on-the-Land” the facilities of the Elder Organisation. The name Elders was known to our pioneer families
as far back as 1839, and brought to them the essentials of a growing nation. To-day the activities of 180
Elder branches in Australia cover Wool, Land and Livestock, Merchandise, Insurance, Skins and Hides,
Rural Banking, Shipping, Travel and Chartering.
"SERVICE TO THE MAN-ON-THE-LAND"
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED
ADELAIDE, PERTH, ALBANY, MELBOURNE, GEELONG, SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE, LONDON
with which are amalgamated
THE COMMONWEALTH WOOL & PRODUCE CO. LTD.. SYDNEY
NENCO LIMITED. NEWCASTLE
MOREHEADS LIMITED. BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 29, 1958
Vol. 79—No. 4068
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
Hew Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
DR. EVATT'S CONVERSION
DR. EVATT’S attack on the Federal
Government’s immigration policy is an
outburst right from the peculiar Evatt
heart. It was, of course, “sensational,”
as usual, since he chose as his venue a
citizenship convention which was
ostensibly non-political, and was
designed as a “get-together” on the
problems of integrating the new
citizenry rather than as the means of
providing a platform from which to
sow political dissension.
There is irony in the spectacle of
Dr. Evatt advocating the cause of
British immigration. Throughout his
Federal political career he has been on
the opposite side to the United Kingdom
and things it holds worth while. True,
he has often been heard loudly demand-
ing “British justice” for somebody, but
it is usually British justice for the
Communist party or Communist
officials who have got themselves into
jail or internment, or Indians—usually
anybody but the British.
And Dr. Evatt, by his Fourteen
Points Constitutional-amendment Bill,
very nearly succeeded in introducing a
political system similar to that in
Russia. And, ever since, Dr. Evatt
seems to have been prepared to trust
Molotov before the Australian Govern-
ment.
His allies in U.N., both before and
after he became president, were not
the great white nations of the West,
but the little republics of the Caribbean
and South America and Asia, whose
Governments were mostly despotisms.
The representatives of these were his
claque and his voting-corps. And,
generally speaking, when it came to
racial matters he and his Government
favored the foreigner, and were all for
schism when it came to dealing with
the British.
It was they who established the
policy of a heavy foreign immigration
from the refugee-oamps of Europe. If
was under their rule that immigration
agents began to stump Europe taking
fees from eager Italians, Greeks,
Albanians and whatnot to get them
into Australia.
It was Dr. Evatt’s present deputy-
leader, Mr. Calwell, who invented the
name New Australian to describe the
new races which were being brought in
here, some of them low-standard
Cypriots and Southern Europeans
whose lack of knowledge of the very
elements of sanitation and of civilised
domestic behavior shocked aircraft-
crews and Darwin landing-officers.
Now Dr. Evatt has suddenly turned
against these people of all grades of
education and behavior. He demands
an investigation of the immigration pro-
gramme both here and overseas. He
is alarmed that the “present nationality-
quotas favoring” —he says “the
European Continental will change the
composition of the Australian people.”
He demands in ringing tones the
establishment of quotas in which 60
per cent, of newcomers shall be of
British race and 40 per cent, other
nationalities.
He declared at Canberra that “Aus-
tralia was basically and fundamentally
a British community and it must
remain so” —which comes strangely
indeed from the lips of the leader of
the party which once so mouthed the
word “New Australian” that it almost
came to connote a superiority in the
dark-skinned Mediterranean immigrant
over even the Australian-born.
He says the whole immigration
policy “has been wrongly based for
the past three or four years”—has
been used to “build-up a work-force
for employers, but if you concentrate
on this you are apt to forget the social,
cultural and economic problems.”
In this sentence lies the root of Dr.
Evatt’s change of heart and of his
rancor.
The immigration policy established
by the Chifley Government has, indeed,
shown no basic change under the
present Government, but it is turning-
out from the Labor party’s (and
particularly the Communist union-
leaders’) point of view a monster
which bids fair to destroy everything
that Dr. Evatt and some of his
colleagues hold dear.
As he delicately puts it, Australia
has attracted some immigrants “who
did not have a full knowledge of the
working of democracy.” By which he
probably means not that these people
have the traditions of the gunman
republics of the South and Central
American and less-advanced Asian
zones who used to treat him as their
pride and joy in the U.N. Assembly,
but that they smell Communism every
time they turn their faces towards the
Labor party and refuse to have
anything to do with it.
It was the influx of a grim anti.
Communist quota of New Australians
from the refugee-camps and other
places on the continent of Europe,
where they had learned about Com.
munism the hard way through torture
and starvation, that sent Dr. Evatt into
headlong flight from Barton electorate
to Hunter, where he knew he could
find a community of good, sporting,
docile democrats of British origin, with
no first-hand experience of Communism
on its native heath, and all well under
the thumb of groups of Communist
and/or Leftist leaders.
It is the New Australian vote—it is
said to be likely to number 400,000
by the end of this year—which will be
exercised in strength for the first time
at the next election, and which it seems
may give the final coup de grace to the
curious agglomeration of Communists,
trade-union bosses, publicans and
careerists which now masquerades
under the name “Australian Labor
Party.”
The union-leaders of the Evatt
persuasion, of course, now heartily
agree with every word Dr. Evatt says.
They have discovered the awful truth
that European immigrants—save for
the inevitable leaven of criminals and
misfits among them —look on work as
a luxury instead of a burden or a
brutal imposition of slavery upon the
downtrodden by the imperialist
monopolists.
They greatly value the chance to
earn a good living in a golden land.
The very sight of a Communist, in
the light of their own experience, makes
them tremble with instinctive fear, and,
unfortunately, their sense of smell is
so keen that even the transferred smell
of Communism on the political
garments of Labor members of Parlia-
ment fills them with apprehension.
Most Australians heartily want an
all-British Australia. Most have
decided, on coming into close contact
with a lot of the immigrants of the past
10 years, that they are not easily
assimilable, save for the Netherlanders,
the Germans and the Scandinavians.
Most would like to see Australia
remain in its proud position of being
all-British both in policy, culture and
industrious will to work and develop.
The basis of this belief, however,
is different from that of Dr. Evatt and
his Leftist supporters. To him Conti-
nental European immigration is becom-
ing anathema because it is interfering
with the new Australian way of life —-
or way of loaf —which the post-war
Labor party is gradually forcing on a
naturally industrious people.
The seeds of destruction of the
A.L.P. are sown in the Continental
immigrants’ knowledge of exactly what
the Australian policy, with its hob-
nobbing attitude to the Kremlin and
its agents, really and practically stands
for.


“If protocol, public-relations and programme now permit, may I extend to you a very cordial welcome, sir?”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Politics and Economics
On the events of the past week the Com-
monwealth Government will face Parlia-
ment in an atmosphere rather changed
from that which pertained when the
Houses closed.
The development of a new type of
economic situation caused by the levelling-
off in the cost-of-living and the falling-off
in employment, which seems to be
temporary, presents it- with some new
problems.
But at the least whiff of a smell
of unemployment, the Labor Oppo-
sition jumps into the arena shouting
calamity, followed by the less-responsible
daily newspapers, which means all of
those published in Sydney.
Mr. Holt says that the figure of 58,000
registered unemployed persons will pro-
bably rise during January, and that it
will not be possible to estimate the posi-
tion accurately till the middle of February
—just before the meeting of Parliament
at the end of the month. Whatever
happens, he promises that the Govern-
ment will not allow any drift to continue.
Labor members will be disappointed if
his measures are successful, whether they
include relaxation of credit-control or not.
Among circles which should know it is
said in Canberra that consideration will
be given to the production of a “little
Budget” in March to offset unemploy-
ment, the effects of the drought, slumping
trade in primary products abroad and
some other things that call for attention.
There is talk of changes in taxation
incentives to industry.
One thing, however, is certain: The
likelihood of an early election has
receded. December is now the favorite
in the betting. Whatever measures are
introduced, they will not show results at
once, and things may get worse before
they get better.
The banking bills will have to wait in
the hope that there will be a resounding
defeat of Labor and that the Democratic
Labor Party position may not present
the same problems as it did before the
last session closed. That is, if Labor does
not capitulate on the issue meantime.
Indonesia Drifting
While President Soekarno wanders the
world the picture at home in Indonesia
last week was painted not by foreign
correspondents, whose stories have been
laughed at by the Indonesian authorities,
but by a leading Indonesian economist,
governor of the Bank of Indonesia, and
formerly Finance Minister, Mr. Sjafruddin
Prawiranegara. His statement is forth-
right and specific, even if it may be
slightly discounted through the fact that
he is a member of the Moslem party,
which does not like Communists.
He says he does not agree with the
Government’s political and economic and
financial policies, and that Indonesia is
now faced with the choice between form-
ing a strong national Government, or,
like the Hungarian Kadar Government,
asking for help from Russia and other
countries in the Communist bloc. He
warned Indonesians to watch lest they
wake up one day to find themselves
citizens of a Red satellite.
It is significant that he released his
message in South Sumatra, where he is
“on holiday,” and not in Djakarta, which
he says pointedly is “a battlefield of
conflicting interests and powers.”
Other reports suggest that the country
is on the edge of economic collapse.
Some authorities say that this is only a
few weeks off, being hastened by political
schisms between various regions and the
failure of the Government to secure
shipping to replace Dutch vessels. The
Japanese Shipowners’ Association, for
instance, decided that it would not be
able to implement an agreement to
provide ships for inter-island trade.
It is not clear how other events are
connected with the announcement that
the United States Ambassador has been
withdrawn from Djakarta—it is suggested
as the result of disagreement between
himself and the State Department on
the policy to be pursued towards
Indonesia. This is mere surmise.
What is most clear is that not only
is Indonesia racing towards economic ruin,
but that it is in danger of breaking-up.
If the rebel juntas which have been in
conference in the safe haven of Sumatra
could find a leader acceptable to all, the
explosion would come quickly. It was
reported last week that the Indonesian
Vice-President had refused an offer to
be President of independent South
Sumatra, and areas of Borneo and the
Celebes are organising towards secession.
Science and Teaching
The Summer School for Science Teachers,
which Professor Messel’s Nuclear
Research Foundation sponsored and
financed, ended on Friday. It was
attended by 123 teachers, mostly from
N.S.W., but with a sprinkling from other
States. Of the N.S.W. teachers, 60 came
from departmental schools and 40 from
private schools.
The lecturers included Professor
Oliphant, Professor Titterton, Dr. Bowen,
Professor Bok, Dr. Blatt and other top-
ranking Australian scientists, and the
object was the twofold one of giving the
teachers some up-to-the-minute briefing
on the latest developments in various
fields of science and of inspiring them
with renewed zeal for the teaching of
their subject. The course included
laboratory demonstrations in the School
of Physics and at the C.5.1.R.0., a demon-
stration of Silliac and an inspection of
the Atomic Energy Commission’s plant
at Lucas Heights.
Towards the end of the school the
teachers supplied answers to a question-
naire submitted to them by Professor
Messel, giving their views on the state of
science-teaching in Australia. Not sur-
prisingly, he got back most of the con-
elusions he had already made familiar
through his active campaigning for a new
outlook on this subject. These boiled,
down to more money, better facilities
more time and an attempt to make a
scientific career more attractive from the
standpoint of prestige in the community,
Teachers urged that the summer school
should be made an annual affair as a
means of keeping science-instructors
abreast of developments, and also that
top scientists should make regular visits
to secondary schools.
Through the combined spurs of the
sputniks, Dr. Thonemann’s taming of the
H-bomb, the successful testing of Lucas
Heights and the forceful campaigning of
Professor Messel and other Australian
scientists, it seems likely that Australian
public opinion is now receptive to the
idea of a New Deal in science. The
classes taught this year by the 123
teachers who attended the summer school
should reflect some of this new spirit.
Atomic Opportunity
On the eve of Australia Day it was
announced in London that an Australian
had led the way in the development of
nuclear fusion for peaceful purposes, ll
is an immense achievement.
In the manner of modern international
competition the Americans and the
Russians have immediately announced
similar progress.
There seems, however, to be no reason
to doubt that Dr. Thonemann was well
ahead of the field in his thinking, and
that the United Kingdom, which Russia
and the United States profess to regard
as a backward country which doesn't
boast, gave him his opportunity.
Thus, as an Antipodean, Lord Ruther-
ford from Maoriland, first split the atom
and paved the way for nuclear science,
so another Antipodean was working on
his theories at Sydney University in
1944, only five years after fission pro-
cesses had reached their first stage of
practicability.
This, of course, was before the world
had heard of the atom-bomb, and even
the- harnessing for the uranium-atom to
peaceful purposes seemed a nebulous
dream.
The Russians had not even succeeded
in stealing sufficient information and
enough Quislings from their British and
American Allies to begin atomic-power
research. (
Yet this young Australian, remote
from the great laboratories of Europe
was so convinced of the rightness of hi*
theories that he went to England to
pursue their development, and at once
found himself in a co-operative atmov
phere and among probably the onl)
group of scientists in the world with
(then) sufficiently advanced knowledge to
follow what he was talking about and
to give him his chance.
It is beyond dispute that whatever h a *
been accomplished by others in the 1“
years during which he has worked cease-
lessly on his project, he was the pioneer
who began his thinking certainly n o '


later than 1944, and his experiments,
which are now capped with the first stage
of success, in 1948. And his apparatus
leads the world.
Australia’s attitude to science is chang-
ing, and it is a different country, from
the point of view of research, from that
in which Thonemann worked in 1944.
It now has several nuclear scientists
of world-wide renown and knowledge,
comparable with those of the older
countries.
It should be an inducement to the
Australian Government to rouse itself
from its comparative torpor —the Aus-
tralian National University stands to the
credit of the present Federal Opposition,
and its proposals were looked on some-
what askance by some of the present Gov-
ernment members—and do something
really imaginative in the way of using
the obvious potential of home-grown
brainpower.
"Bring Out a Briton"
[By the Minister for Immigration, the Hon.
Athoi Tovvnley.]
Facts and figures do not support the
generalised charges made in The
Bulletin article “Bring Out a Briton”
[Plain English, 8/1 / ’SB, and based on
criticism by L. A. Clapperton, president
of the British-Australian Association]
that my department favors southern
Europeans and does not trouble enough
to recruit British migrants.
Here are the facts. Australia gives first
preference to migrants from Britain ; we
take more migrants from Britain than
from any other country ; we pay almost
four times as much towards the fare of a
migrant from Britain as we pay for a
foreign migrant.
We take every available berth in ships
leaving England for British migrants ; we
recently chartered two Italian liners to
carry British migrants from England for
four years; we introduced the “Bring
Out a Briton” scheme to uncover more
opportunities for British migrants.
We place no limit on the number of
people from Britain who can pay their
own fares to settle in Australia. We
limit full fare-paying migrants from other
countries.
Since May, 1956, Southern Europeans
living here have been allowed to nominate
only their close dependent relatives,
their wives, fiancees and unmarried
sisters for admission to Australia —even
as full fare-paying passengers. We have
given assisted passages to Southern
European skilled tradesmen and to
workers needed on arduous jobs not
attractive to British and Australian
workers.
Between January, 1946, and June, 1957,
we had 422,568 permanent arrivals from
Britain ; 183,185 from Italy ; 37,654 from
Malta ; 49,498 from Greece.
The totals included 273,796 assisted
migrants from Britain; 30,064 assisted
Italian nationals; 22,651 assisted from
Malta ; 20,530 assisted Greek nationals.
How does this add-up to favoritism by
my department for Southern Europeans?
True, the Southern European is more
noticeable in our communities today
because of his appearance. But it is also
true that the great majority of Southern
European migrants, together with Aus-
tralians and migrants from other coun-
tries, are making a great contribution to
this country’s development—by their
hard work.
The plain fact is that Britain cannot
provide Australia with enough migrants
with the skills and aptitudes needed for
our country’s planned development. The
British royal commission on population
reported in 1949: “The flow of emigrants
from Great Britain is unlikely to be more
than about a third of the number of
immigrants which the other Common-
wealth countries would need.”
Australia’s immigration programme is
carefully planned to meet the country’s
industrial needs and balanced to ensure
that, apart from the British, there is no
great preponderance of one nationality in
the intake.
Because it appeared that the Southern
European intake could grow out of pro-
portion, restrictions were applied in May,
1956. The drop in the rate of permanent
arrivals from Italy since then is shown
in these figures:
Financial year, 1955-56 .. ~ ~ 31,60 S
„ 1956-57 30,190
First sixmths., 1957-58 7,139
To increase substantially the intake of
assisted British migrants we would have
to take many workers for whom there is
no great demand in Australia. Giving
assisted passages to these less-essential
types of British migrants would exclude
skilled and other more useful non-
British migrants needed for national
development and industry.
We do take trouble to get the right type
of British migrant. Of the 122,741 bread-
winners in the assisted intake from Britain
from January, 1949, to September, 1957,
only 35,875 were not skilled workers.
And 26,293 of those were semi-skilled.
Immigration officials do not, as alleged,
regard British migrants as a nuisance.
Commonwealth-nominated British
migrants are provided with initial accom-
modation in special Commonwealth
hostels at less than cost. They are not
“herded and pushed around and told
where to work and how.” British
migrants cannot be directed to work.
Most British assisted migrants know
where they will stay and the type of work
available for them before they leave. The
few who do not know accept that fact in
writing before leaving Britain.
The officers at Australia House who
interview migrants and inform them of
our country are responsible fellow-
Australians—not “whooping minions,”
a term which I resent. They do not paint
a rosy picture of life in Australia. Recent
independent checks, by objective Aus-
tralian newspaper-correspondents at
Australia House, have proved beyond
doubt that these officers give a truthful,
up-to-date account. They are kept regu-
larly informed from Australia. The litera-
ture which-, they give to intending
migrants is prepared in Australia and
editions are regularly revised.
There are many examples throughout
Australia of specialised British industries
opening-up fully-tooled and manned
enterprises in community-settlements.
This is migration at its best and is strongly
assisted by my department.
It is not true that too many Southern
Europeans become “strolling hoboes or
criminals.” This theory has been scotched
(Continued on page 13)
“We have just discovered We hold a controlling-interest, sir, and respectfully
request your immediate resignation."


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
TCffY first morning in Australia was
not a happy one. Kookaburras
woke me up about 5 a.m. and I
thought they were noisy children playing.
I was a mass of mosquito-bites, and when
I went to have a bath there was no
stopper in the bath-tub. I asked the
attendant about it and he said, “Wot’s the
matter with y’r heel?” —“New Chum.”
❖ * ❖
“0.G.”: It’s an ill wind that blows
nobody some good! In our suburb,
because of the drought, we now have
some weekends entirely free of the ear-
piercing whine of electric mowers.
*!♦ ❖
“Nunk”: The Colonel’s lady and Judy
O’Grady are models under the skin.
❖ ❖ *
“Wusslean”: Bobbie Bums was betting
on improbabilities when he pleaded for
some power “to see oursel’s as others see
us.” Trying on a new pair of breeks I
wondered who the corpulent, grey-haired
chap was who had crept into the changing-
cubicle behind me. Then I realised that
the stooped, ageing codger was me,
glimpsed sideways on in the comer-
mirror ; it’s not only my old school-
mates who are looking every year of their
age these days.
❖ ❖ *:♦
“Kenyas”: Heard a young fellow com-
menting on a girl he’d met at a party.
“She was massive!” he enthused. And
I drove home in a car otherwise laden
with teenagers returning from a show
and felt that if anyone used the word
“fantastic” in my hearing again there’d
be a slaying. But on Sunday a woman
exclaimed “Darling! ” —apparently un-
able to take her eyes off the upturned
cloth-bucket squeezed on top of her
friend’s cranium “It’s absolutely
fantastic !’’
“XYZ”: The kilt (B. 8/1/’5B) is the
national dress of the Scottish highlands;
several regiments in the British, Canadian
and Australian armies have adopted the
kilt, but that does not make them “high-
land” regiments. There are only five
regiments recruited in the Scottish high-
lands, and which can wear the kilt by
right: the Gordons, Black Watch,
Camerons, Argyle and Sutherlands, and
Seaforths. I had many friends in these
regiments during World War I, and their
opinions of their imitators would be not
dissimilar from, say, Eddie Ward’s
opinion of Bob Menzies.
❖❖ * '
“Irving”: The fleetness acquired in
juvenile flights from the wrath of stoned
Chinese (B. 4/12/’57) takes me back to
the days when we youngsters put down
our hats and ran in circles around them,
which antic we believed was somehow
symbolical of, or ritually connected with,
Chinese lovemaking. We were always
disappointed when the market-gardeners
at whom our provocatively-meant gesture
was directed grinned from ear to ear and
drove on.
“Cowyard Kate”: The man of the
house was not at all well and asked me
if I had any medicine that might help him.
I was busy at the time and told him he’d
find a bottle of small, brown pills on the
top shelf of the pantry. He straightway
took two and kept on taking them,
recovering rapidly. “Miraculous!” he
declared, and I agreed when I checked
up and found he had, in three days, taken
a whole bottle of dolichos-creeper seeds.
♦♦♦ '
“Maitri”: Three famous American
doctors (one is President Eisenhower’s
physician) have made the heartening an-
nouncement that whisky is good for us.
It’s no news to me: in the remote west
of Scotland I’ve even seen the minister
leave the pulpit before the sermon, and
everybody knew he’d gone to the vestry
to get a drop of spiritual fortitude before
his big effort. Though, considering the
length of the discourse, I could never see
why the congregation had to miss-out.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Flo”: The trainee-nurse was cupboard-
scrubbing and Sister was prowling
when the cockroach family, Pa, Ma and
the kids, came from their hideout.
“Nurse, Nurse,” Sister fussed, “just look
at those cockroaches! There’s far too
many of them, Nurse, far too many.” It
registered. Nursie, still wearily brush-
pushing, asked brightly, “Sister, will you
tell me how many there should be?”
❖ ♦>
T>RIGHT Young Thing in matador-
" pants bounced into the jeweller’s
and demanded a watch. She was in her
first job and wanted to check on the
knock-off whistle. Salesman produced
one that he said was a tip-top time-
keeper and excellent value for £lO.
“Only a tenner,” snorted the B.Y.T. “If
you’ve nothing better I’m not interested.”
And with a flick of her pony-tail she was
gone.—“ Sal J.”
“We didn't cast-off last night! "
TERROR FROM THE SKIES
‘‘ln a fight for control of Butler Air Trans-
port, Ltd., nine special airliners and a flying-
boat flew more than 500 shareholders to Sydney
from Melbourne and Brisbane.”
The Ansetts came down like a paratroop-
horde,
Their single objective: Control of the
Board.
Skymasters, Dakotas, Convairs, flying-
boats,
Dropped shareholders armed to the teeth
with their votes ,
It’s a serious business, the War in the Air,
And citizens watching the dogfight up
there,
Directors shot-down in the fearsome
melee,
Will hardly know whether to fly or to
flee.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


THERE in the front stalls I sat behind a
mother and two daughters. In a
highly dramatic scene the leading-man
was doing his brilliant best. One daughter
leaned across her mother and asked:
“Isn’t he like Jack Willoughby?” “More
like Charlie Jackson,” answered the other
daughter. “Rubbish,” said the first.
“You’re always thinking of Charlie Jack-
son. You should have married Charlie
Jackson.” “What do you think, Mother?”
the second daughter asked. “Now that
he’s looking at us —isn’t he like Charlie?”
“Yes, full-face, like Charlie, but side-on
he’s like Jack,” said the mother diplo-
matically. “Silence,” barked a man
behind me. After the final curtain-call, the
mother remarked: “That leading-man
was really splendid.” “I don’t care what
you think about him, Mother,”- said the
first daughter. “I still say he’s very like
Jack Willoughby—both side-on and full-
face.”—“O.G.”
♦> ♦>
“Curate’s Egg”: An old mate of mine
who has spent most of his time not far
from the Barcoo stayed with me during
his visit to Melbourne to consult with a
specialist, who diagnosed goitre. Mrs.
C.E., who rides her vegetarian hobby-
horse fast and furiously, remarked: “I’m
not surprised, Bill. You never eat greens,
which means that there is a lack of iodine
in your system.” Bill thought for a
moment, then said, “By jingo! You’re
right, now. Come to think of it, I’ve
never seen an iodine-bottle with a goitre.”
«$•
“T.A.G.”: Like “Hamish” (B. 8/l/’5B),
I enjoy reading country newspapers. But
what they don’t mention is also worth
knowing. Lavender-and-old-face, indeed!
Like the wealthy grazier who invited the
town to his daughter’s wedding. Oh, yes,
it was reported in the paper that “the
assembled guests did justice,” but it didn’t
tell about the fight that followed because
one gentleman accused another of poddy-
dodging, after which four people were
admitted to hospital. Nor were they
listed in the day’s ambulance cases. And
then there was the night of the big ball
in aid of a religious organisation. One
young fellow was a little tired around
2 a.m., but forgot to pick his own car
to rest in. When he awoke he was 100
miles away. “Where’s my car?” he said.
“Back at the dance-hall. We thought you
might feel like a little fresh air.” He had
to take a taxi back to get it.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Wavy N.”: If “Ceg” (B. 15/1//58)
doesn’t know the correct name for “silent
cop” it is, in Victoria, “traffic button.”
Talking of buttons . . . in Queen Street,
Melbourne, during a lunch-hour
downpour which had the water-
channel running a banker, the
bus stopped about 2ft. out from
the kerb and it was a case of a long
stride or wet feet. The girl with the skirt
which buttoned right down the back
had got her hand on to the hand-rail but
her skirt wouldn’t let her reach the step.
“Dad—will it do my homework?”
Quickly she reached round with
her gloved hand and undid the
bottom button. Another attempt
but she still couldn’t make it,
so round came the hand and another
button was undone, but still no luck.
At this stage two strong hands took her
by the elbows, a big foot was planted on
the bus-step, a slight heave and she
found herself on the step. She
was truly thankful and proceeded to tell
her rescuer so. “This rain is shocking,
and, as for this skirt, well, you relieved
a very embarrassing situation.” To which
came the unexpected reply, “Well, I had
to do something, Miss. These trousers
have only three buttons down the front,
and you had undone two of them.”
*l* ♦> ❖
“Tom Trout”: Big money for record-
ing-artists seems not to be new. Way back
in 1907, according to a London paper of
that year, Melba was guaranteed royalties
of £lO,OOO by the Gramophone and Type-
writer Co., Ltd. About this payment
the company remarked with some
haughtiness “there is nothing extraordi-
nary We have paid considerably more
than that.” And the newspaper added its
estimate that up to that time Melba had
already made £30,000 “out of singing into
talking-machines,” which today would
surely have a sterling-equivalent of well
over £lOO,OOO.
“Dolphin”: Hijacking of goods from
inter-State haulier-trucks is quite a pro-
fession ; I saw one semi-trailer with a
simple, cheap and no doubt effective
precaution—as it rumbled along under its
canvas-covered load a vigorous Alsatian
dog padded about the top.
“Kelvin”: Waiting at a country rail-
way-station a Government auditor had
time to puzzle over cancelled freight-
stamps on a pile of metal returnable-
containers which had been soaked by a
sudden shower. The stamps were covered
by a glistening film which was peeling
off because of the rain-water. With a
finger and thumb he peeled-off a com-
plete rectangle of film, leaving a set of


perfectly virgin stamps on the label. There
were inquiries; an official visited the
dispatch-section of a city firm and found
an office-boy at a table under which was
a bucket of water containing batches of
the firm’s labels bearing cancelled rail-
way-freight stamps. The youth confessed
that before presenting the stamped labels
for railway-cancellation he had painted
them with a gelatinous substance, so that
on return of the containers it was easy
to soak the labels, recover the stamps
innocent of any cancellation-mark, and
pocket the cash he drew for freight on
the next consignment. Here initiative
was not rewarded; the astute lad is no
longer with the firm.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Geep”: During my first haircut for
the year my barber, in the past full of
strange oaths, ’orses and dolls, described
a movie he had just seen. “Nothing un-
usual,” he said; “underage-boy meets
underage-girl in London, decides to make
for Gretna Green. From there the story
wends its way slowly through the peaceful
English countryside.” Even thus do New
Year resolutions affect a man.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pip Tok”: Walking a chalk-line on
the hands as well as on the feet was not
accepted as proof of sobriety by a Kal-
goorlie magistrate who heard a case of
drunken driving just after the New Year.
The defendant, a motor-cyclist, had to
undergo an official blood-test which
showed the amount of alcohol in his
blood would render him unfit to ride the
bike —off which he had fallen twice. The
magistrate ruled that the case hinged not
on the defendant being drunk, but on his
ability to control the motorbike. Fined
£3O and licence suspended for three
months.
“Mugga Way”: Olaf Ruhen (B.
15/1 /’5B) on the sad life of today’s
newspaper-cadet recalled some of my
"No, lady, that is NOT where we get in.”
own experiences, including a struggle at
jny first assignment (thrown at me with-
out one word of instruction or advice) to
make a shorthand-note of a prayer at a
W.C.T.U. meeting. Yet in that first year,
as I found my feet, I can recall covering
episodes in the Melbourne police-strike,
interviews with Harry Lauder and
“Squizzy” Taylor and, a lucky fluke, a
place in the Federal Parliamentary
gallery reporting the Senate. In those
days there seemed plenty of room for all
kinds of things not now reported, and on
my 30s. a week it never occurred to me
to make-up stories about millions. Per-
haps if it had I might have been a
millionaire newspaper-magnate by now.
❖ ❖ ❖
“XC”: The night-time covering of the
sign “Strawberries for Sale” (B. 8/1 / ’5B)
is most likely, as “C.A.A.” says, a pre-
caution against theft. On a trip in the
Mooloolaba area I was enticed by a simi-
lar sign to knock on the door of the farm-
house, only to be told that there were no
strawberries. I made polite reference to
the sign at the gatepost. The lady-in-
charge looked at me as at a visitor from
a flying-saucer and said very distinctly:
“There are never any strawberries on a
Wednesday.”
THE ONE EXCEPTION
“The man who insistently talks on the one
subject remains woman’s greatest social bane.”
— Women's magazine.
When to party you’ve gone
And you’re fastened upon
By a dame who to gushing’s addicted,
If you’re shrewd you may gain
Swift relief from your pain —
Let her be the one that’s afflicted!
Just open your gap
And unceasingly yap
On a subject you’re certain will bore
her,
And it’s quids to a trey
She’ll soon stagger away
In search of a potent restorer.
Of course, you could be
Somewhat stiff — say, if she
Found your views on logistics
enthralling,
Coinciding with those
She’d long held ; you’d expose
Yourself then to an ordeal appalling.
To establish a bond,
Though, with some nifty blonde,
Cast the net of your light conversation
Just as wide as you can,
For the one-subject man
Is to most gals a sore aggravation k
If you’d not queer your pitch
You must speedily switch
From one frothy theme to another
Without pausing to think;
Though you may feel a gink
In her eyes you’ll be just ace-high,
brother !
Yet there’s one Subject, mind,
You may harp on, and find
You’ll be quite free of all apprehen-
sion :
If you talk about her,
With your choice she’ll concur,
And she’ll give you the raptest
attention !
n.s.w.
S. W. K.


Skyscraper Sorrows
By GAVIN CASEY
AWHILE back an Ameri-
can town-planner warned
Sydney that skyscraper
_ buildings do nothing to
solve traffic problems. In fact,
they intensify them, by pro-
viding many more people per
acre who want places to park
their cars and the road-space
for driving to and from the
the city.
This is true, and he might
have added that there are other
skyscraper sorrows, such as the
tendency of the lofty buildings
to consume themselves, like the
legendary snake which, when in
danger, disappears by taking its
tail in its mouth and swallow-
ing itself.
Skyscrapers create vertical
traffic-jams as well as horizontal
ones. When many thousand
people and all their business
visitors are accommodated dur-
ing the working-day in a single
building it isn’t fun getting out
of it at five-o’clock ; I have
often stood in a cursing circle
on some intermediate floor of
the 65-story main building of
the Rockefeller Centre, New
York, watching lift after lift
swoop past, either going up
empty or coming down utterly
and hopelessly full.
To shift the people who use
it, a building must have more
elevators in ratio to its height.
Thus, theoretically, when you
had reached about 1000 floors
all the floor-space would be
taken-up by lifts, and none left
anywhere for work or other
purposes. A long way short
of this, the need to get the
people in and out does make
serious holes in the space avail-
able, and adds much to cost of
building, power-costs, and the
price of labor to run the place.
For some years after a crowd
of optimists built it, the famous
Empire State building was a
white elephant. The good
address and the glory of help-
ing occupy the world’s tallest
building didn’t, prospective
tenants thought, justify all the
lift-troubles and the high
rentals. Only after somebody
had lost a lot- of money did
rents come down and the place
finally fill.
ANOTHER skyscraper
trouble is that without
extraordinary precautions such
buildings would be happy hunt-
ing-grounds for petty thieves.
No lift-driver or other attendant
can know all the lawful
occupants when the tenants and
their employees number, say,
10,000. Therefore they are
tough places to take anything
out of at any time other than
business hours. In fact, you
must have a pass.
In my Rockefeller Centre
days I had occasionally to take
out a typewriter or a movie-
projector for some weekend
work. To manage this I had
to sit down in the office
and, since I was . head
of my particular bureau,
type myself a letter saying I was
entitled to remove a package
of such-and-such dimensions,
sign it myself, and give it to
the liftman. The attendant
knew me very well, perhaps
because of my frequent week-
end visits, but he had to have
that pass before anything left
the place, and, though it was
an annoyance to prepare it, the
precaution was really only
sensible.
Most skyscrapers have no
stairways, because they don’t
want too big a death-roll of
middle-aged and older people
who collapse from heart-failure
through being too impatient to
wait for the lift, and trying to
climb 40 stories or so. They
have just the elevators and fire-
escapes, the latter of which one
is warned not fo use except in
emergency.
Once, at Rockefeller Centre,
a friend of a member of my
staff who had been left on a
lounge in the office to re-
cuperate after a rather
strenuous evening tried to use
the fire-escape to get out in the
early hours of the morning,
with astonishing and nerve-
wracking results.
There are gates at each floor,
and he opened ours and stepped
onto the stairs. Immediately a
steel plate clashed down out of
the roof behind him, cutting off
escape the way he had come.
At the next-floor level another
impenetrable barrier clanged
into position, ar i he was caught
like a rat in a trap:
Then the shrillest and loudest
alarms he had ever heard went
off all over the building, their
noise shattering into his cell
and almost driving him mad.
Fully awake and filled with
fear, he waited, because there
was nothing else to do. For-
tunately for his nerves, he
hadn’t long to wait.
The steel plate at the bottom
lifted slowly, leaving the normal
iron grille in the closed posi-
tion, and presumably locked
Through the grille there peered
at him two guards with levelled
six-shooters and one with a
tommy-gun. He spent until
about breakfast-time persuad-
ing them (a) to point their
weapons some other way, and
(b) that he was not a burglar
and safe-breaker, but merely a
poor old gentleman who had
been exhausted by , younger
company and bedded-down in
my office to recover.
MENRY MILO, an Ameri-
can radio-commentator,
who ran our “Look at Aus-
tralia” weekly programme for
us, once had a less terrifying
but even more enraging sky-
scraper experience. As well
as doing the above job for the
Australian News and Informa-
tion Bureau, Henry did much
work for the French Informa-
tion Service, and it was on a
visit to the French office that
disaster overtook him.
For some reason no lynx-eyed
attendant noticed that Henry
took into the building with him
a package which may have been
a time-bomb to blow the place
Up, but was in fact a suit he
had just picked-up from the
dry-cleaner’s. He put this on
the floor beside his chair while
he transacted his business, and
the fun began when he tried to
take it out.
First, when the lift stopped
for him, the driver spotted the
parcel, and firmly barred the
way of entry with his arm.
“Haffta take that in the
goods - elevator, Mac,” he
growled firmly.
Henry found the goods-lift,
pressed its button, and waited.
When it came, another
muscular arm—they don’t.use
physical cripples, only half-wits,
to drive lifts in New York—
barred his way.
“You got a pass for that,
bud?”
“Don’t need one. I brought
it in with me,” said Henry r his
temper shortening.
“Gotta have a pass, bud.
How’d I know whether you
brought it in or not?”
Henry tried to explain, and
offered to open the package and
show that it was only a dry-
cleaned suit. He said he’d un-
dress right there and put it on,
to prove that it fitted him and
was most likely his.
The driver said that he didn’t
care if it was only one sock,
and the sock fitted Henry like
a glove. His instructions were
that went out of the
place without a pass from some
tenant on the floor to which the
lift was called.
Henry went back to the
French office, seething, and he
seethed more hotly when he
discovered that his familiar
contacts there had gone down
in the passenger-lift while he’d
been haggling with the goods-
lift driver. He had now to deal
(Continued on page 57)


POLITICAL POINTS
According to statutory declarations
published by Sydney newspapers there
are a lot of good lurks in H.M. jails
in N. S. Wales. There’s also the possi-
bility, of course, that some lags, in or out,
regard stat. decs, as yet another good
lurk.
• •
Those who have criticised the propor-
tion of Southern Europeans in the
migrant-intake should welcome the batch
of 133 Finns who reached Melbourne
last week in the liner Skaubryn. Europe
doesn’t go much further north than
Finland.
• •
Under the leadership of Postmaster-
General Davidson a party of Federal
M.P.s is paying a 10-day visit to Japan
as guests of the Japanese Diet. Other
members of the team are Senators Wade
(C.P., Vic.) and Willesee (Lab., W.A.);
and M.H.R.s Chaney (Lib., W.A.),
Johnson (Lab., N.S.W.), Pearce (Lib., Q.)
and Russell (Lab., S.A.).
• •
While the P.M.G. is away Repatriation
Minister Cooper will look after postal
affairs and Minister for Air Osborne will
keep an eye on the Navy.
• •
Canberra is planning a full-dress
opening of Parliament on February 25,
but there’ll be very little work for the
politicians. They have to be in Canberra
that week, anyway, for the Parliamentary
Ball to honor the Queen Mother.
According to plans now in hand, the
ceremonial opening by the Governor-
General will be followed by two days’
debate on the Address-in-Reply. On
February 27 (the night of the ball)
Parliament will adjourn until March 11.
Nothing startling is expected in the
G.-G.’s opening address, but no doubt
the Government will announce its inten-
tion of recommitting its rejected
Banking legislation. Even if the Senate
rejects the bills again, as seems certain,
that will not precipitate a double-
dissolution, as the Government hopes to
hold the general elections late this year.
Sir William Slim’s speech will certainly
deal with the effects of .the drought in
primary industries. The Government is
worried that a continuation of the
drought on a widespread scale could lead
to a noticeable fall in revenue from rural
areas. With farm-incomes down, pro-
visional-tax collections—which are not
due until after the close of the financial
year—are bound to be lower.
The National party won the postponed
election for the Clutha seat in the New
Zealand Parliament, thereby cutting the
Labor majority to one, excluding the
Speaker. Actual figures, Labor, 41,
National, 39.
The postponed election for Clutha
arose from the fact that on the day before
the general election the Labor candidate,
motoring along a bad and narrow road
to Kaitangata, came into violent head-on
collision with an occupied hearse and was
.killed.
• •
By the end of May 900,000 children
in N.S.W. will have had three injec-
tions of Salk anti-polio vaccine,
and the mass-vaccination stage of
the campaign against polio will
have been completed. The task then will
be to see that each year’s crop of infants
duly receives treatment. Dr. E. S. Meyers,
director of the campaign in N. S. Wales,
said last week that unfortunately only a
small percentage of parents of new
babies had been sending-in their
“consent” cards. He advised all parents
to send the cards to their local council
as soon as a child was born. This would
make it possible to give the child its first
shot of vaccine at the age of three
months.
• •
Queensland hasn’t given up the hunt
for overseas markets for coal. A 10,000-
ton order for Callide coal has been
received from Cambodia ; the coal is for
use on the Saigon railways and will be
shipped from Gladstone early in Febru-
ary. There is also talk of an Argentine
order for Blair Athol coal. Fifty'years
ago there was a considerable export of
Newcastle coal to South America, chiefly
as back-loading for nitrate ships. The big
obstacle in the way of a revival of this
market is the lack of return cargoes.
• •
“Stromlo”: While the chief political
parties (but not the Communist and the
D.L.P.) bewail the dangers of the Senate
paper, because the draw may allow the
large percentage of illiterate or careless
voters to give the balance of power to
otherwise obscure groups, no one seems
to be doing anything about it. Why
couldn’t a circular ballot-paper be
devised, with the groups of candidates in
segments? No group would then get a
preponderance of the “accidental” votes.
• ■ •
“Manly”: Undisturbed by all this
clamor about gambling, I occasionally
invest in a lottery-ticket—and I’ve col-
lected a few minor prizes. What might be
explained is how the promoters relate the
glittering first-prize to the price of a
ticket. I paid £5 for a ticket in the Sydney
Opera House lottery, with a top prize of
£lOO,OOO. In Melbourne I paid £1 for
a ticket in the El Dorado sweep, with a
first prize of £40,000. Why the difference?
My interest is purely scientific —I didn’t
win either sweep.
• . •
Indonesia’s finances are now at a
deplorable ebb —its reserves are repre-
sented by a deficit, and the future looks
gloomy as exports begin to drop lower
and chaos and rebellion spread. It is
clear that the Indonesian Government
now rules only where it happens to have
machine-guns. It is hard to say whether
its most potent inner .forces of destruc-
tion are its rebels or its printing-presses
turning out inflated currency and seizure-
orders which stop the wheels of fresh
productive industries almost every day.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: There have been some
meteoric rises in Australian politics, but
for trying to beat the gyn a Sydney
daily must surely be awarded a prize of
buttered brickbats. As soon as Sir Gar-
field Barwick announced he would seek
Liberal selection for the Parramatta seat
it suggested he would succeed Menzies
as Prime Minister. Ignoring the fact that
Barwick has still to go through the pre-
selection process (which is no formality)
and the business of being elected by the
voters of Parramatta, the paper also
assumed that Barwick, if he reached Par-
liament House, would rank there ahead of
other comparatively youthful but politic-
ally well-experienced men, including
Harold Holt, Bill McMahon, Fred
Osborne and others. The eminent
barrister will feel no debt of gratitude
to the overenthusiastic scribe (or news-
paper-proprietor) who tried so heavy-
handedly to promote his claim to honors.
• •
If all the things the Sydney press has
been saying about N. S. Wales jails are
true there must be something radically
wrong in Dugan and other jail-breakers.
They should be breaking into jail, not
out.
• •
Reported from Canberra that a new
Snowy Mountains Agreement was signed
in December by representatives of the
Commonwealth, N. S. Wales and
Victorian Governments and that legisla-
tion will shortly come before the three
Parliaments. The agreement is designed
to safeguard the rights of Victoria against
the flooding of the Upper Murray and
the rights of N. S. Wales a'gainst the
flooding of the Tumut; it further pro-
vides that compensation for landowners
whose land is flooded shall be charged
against the cost of providing electric-
power from the Snowy Scheme.
On the face of it everyone seems to be
happy except Tom Play ford, who, on
behalf of South Australia, has been fight-
ing a lone battle with the Big Three over
the original scheme and who doesn’t
seem to have been consulted over this
one—or even informed that it was in the
making.


three times by an independent committee
of inquiry headed by Mr. Justice Dovey
and the committee’s findings have been
widely publicised.
Once again for the record: The last
independent report by the committee said
—The average crime-rate among New
Australian men is 5.40 in every 1000, com-
pared with 12.51 in every 1000 Aus-
tralians. The crime-rate among Southern
European men is 2.66 in every 1000—not
only far below the Australian rate, but
also below the average alien rate.
Rest assured that my department is not
“going for the easy marks,” Guided by
two independent councils, comprising
some of the best economic, industrial,
trade-union, business, educational, agri-
cultural, administrative and, importantly,
women’s brains in Australia, the depart-
ment is running a planned, balanced
immigration programme, seeking as many
British migrants as possible and con-
tinuing to take selected Europeans to fill
the numbers of essential workers whom
Australia needs.
"How do I look, Arthur? How do I look?"
Even coming towards the end of a hot
dry summer this talk of temperatures of
from two-million to five-million degrees
centigrade sounds mighty hot. Some-
where in the official explanation of the
working of the Zeta unit which produces
this fantastic temperature is a reference
to a discharge being caused to wriggle
about in a magnetic field. This is the
most easily understood part of the whole
process. Most of us start to wriggle long
before the thermometer reaches even the
century!
• •
If anyone outside the Cahill Cabinet
fancies he has a chance of being chosen
as head of the N. S. Wales Government’s
new office in New York he may as well
forget it, especially if it is decided to put
the office on the same basis as the Agent-
General’s office in London. Discussing
that possibility Cahill said, “If so, we
will have to get some outstanding person
to take it over.”
What Cahill means by “outstanding
person” can best be deduced by recalling
the two most recent appointments as
A.-G. —former Lands Minister Tully and
former Mines Minister Buckley.
Including Joe himself there are 16 “out-
standing” men available for the job.
• •
When a motion to send a delegation
to Russia was proposed at the A.W.U.
annual convention general-secretary
Dougherty strongly opposed it. He said
the proposal came from Communist
elements and that no doubt some rank-
and-file members of the union would be
able to get'into Russia all right, but that
there would be no chance of a
credentialled official being able to find out
anything worth while, because the A.W.U.
had an international reputation for being
opposed to Communism. He could see
no benefit to any member from sending
such a delegation. The proposal was
rejected.
• •
On Sunday scientists at Lucas Heights
(N.S.W.) completed the first low-power
test of the Atomic Energy Commission’s
HIFAR nuclear-research reactor. An-
nouncing this, Senator Spooneh, Minister
for National Development, said that in
the test fission of uranium atoms pro-
duced a self-sustaining chain-reaction.
The reactor is primarily for research, but
it will also produce radioactive isotopes
for" use in industry, *“ medicine and
agriculture.
The success of the test does not mean
that the reactor is completed. There’s still
a lot to be done before it comes into full
operation.
• •
Seiffert, Labor M.L.A. for Monaro in
the N. S. Wales Assembly, is taking a
team of 23 Labor politicos on a fact-
finding tour of the Snowy Mountains.
They’ll leave Sydney on February 6 and
spend several days in the high grazing-
lands in the Snowy River catchment-area.
Reason for the trip is Seiffert’s protest
(on behalf of lessees of the area) against
the proposed cancellation of grazing-
leases above 4500 ft., as recommended by
the Snowy River Catchment Area Pro-
tection Board 1 . The N. S. Wales Cabinet
has decided not to renew leases after June
30. Seiffert is trying to mobilise support
for a rescission motion.
• •
Alderman D. J. Mahoney, Mayor of
Parramatta, has been chosen as Labor
candidate for the Parramatta by-election.
• • •
H.H. (London): A convert to color-
photography, I decided to treat myself
to a projector for Christmas. The local
shop organised a demonstration for me.
Using my own transparencies, the man
skilfully narrowed-down the range from
20 models to two. I had to choose between
the two —difficult because the images
were equally good and the prices about
the same. I chose the one that had the
“blower” and the neater look. Looking
at my new toy, I faintly remembered
something. “Isn’t this Australian?” I
asked the dealer. “It is,” he replied;
“and it’s selling remarkably well,
particularly to the ladies.” To one who
has always associated Australian exports
with the land rather than with the factory
this made an impression.
• •
Commenting on the recall of U.S.
Ambassador Allison from Djakarta the
Washington “Post” says “It will do the
free world little service if New Guinea
is saved while Java is engulfed by Com-
munism.” It will do the free world less
good still if New Guinea is given to
Indonesia and is then engulfed by Corn-
munism along with the rest of the shaky
republic.
• •
Soekarno and his colleagues have used
the Communist menace as a threat to
frighten America into supporting their
claim to West New Guinea. If Java
goes Communist it won’t be because the
Indonesian Government has failed to get
control of New Guinea. It will be
because it has never really had control
of its own country.


PERSONAL ITEMS
“A.W.”: Surrounded by boys and girls
from the dailies, radio and TV in the
main lounge of S.S. Mariposa in Sydney
on Tuesday, January 21, Professor Under-
wood, world-authority on trace-elements,
was asked one of those questions calcu-
lated to cut world-authorities down to
size—“ What are trace-elements, Pro-
fessor?” The professor took it in his
stride, and explained. Which indicates
that Prof. Underwood is a patient man ;
he is also genial, soft-spoken and
Director of the W.A. Institute of Agri-
culture. He’s been abroad on a study-
and-lecture programme, and planned to
fly to Perth last Wednesday. His book
on trace-elements (written at the request
of an American publisher) camq/6ut when
he was in the U.S.
• •
A. W. Currie, until recently Auckland
(N.Z.) manager of the Commercial Bank
of Australia, Ltd., has been appointed
an inspector in Victoria of his bank. He
went to Auckland from Sydney in 1953.
• •
When A. W. S. Stephenson, M.A.,
recently went to the races in Sydney to
inspect personally the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment’s latest contribution to the
Golden Age—the jatkpot-tote—he went,
presumably, in his capacity as president
of the Council of Churches of N.S.W.,
a body that feels bound to take judicial
notice, so to speak, of anything which,
in its collective opinion, is likely to have
a serious effect on the morals of the
State. In at The Bulletin Mr. Stephen-
son made no bones about his view of
Government-sponsored gambling, such as
totes and lotteries, and other forms of
gambling—such as poker-machines—
which flourish under the present Govern-
ANTI-GAMBLING
ment. Gambling, he suggests, is bad
enough, but when the State takes a rake-
off the effect on general standards is mag-
nified. Have opera-houses if you must,
and hospitals, certainly, but finance them
by direct taxation, which may seem
harder at first, but in the long run is
sounder, and in any case fairer . . ,
While not everyone will be found ready
to go all the way with Mr. Stephenson, it
is difficult to disagree with his main line
of argument, which he presents with calm
skill, and ample historical documentation
—his subjects at Melbourne University
were Philosophy and Greek. He also
attended the College of the Bible, Glen
Iris (Vic.), and, before that, Perth Boys’
High School. Fremantle-born (in 1900),
he has edited church papers, lectured at
Glen Iris, been president of both Vic-
torian and N.S.W. conferences of the
Churches of Christ, as well as being vice-
president of the Federal conference and
attending conferences overseas. This is
his second year as State president of the
Council of Churches ; his full-time job is
Principal of the N.S.W. Churches of
Christ Bible College, Woolwich, Sydney.
• •
“8.R.F.”: Mention of the gallantry of
two Australian sergeants in North Russia
in 1919, in a par. on the passing of one
of them, Charles Godfrey Hill, in Sydney
(B. 1/1/’5B), brought back a few
memories. I was there as chief liaison-
officer to a Russian regiment which took
part in this attack, and my officers, who
were with a Russian company that
attacked with the Australians against the
enemy’s gun-position, gave me an eye-
witness account of this very brave
incident. Pearce and Hill were with a
detachment of Royal Fusiliers; except
for a few New Zealanders, the detach-
ment were all Australians. Prior to the
main attack, this detachment made a most
daring and successful raid on a Red Army
battalion; on another occasion three
Australians made an impertinent and un-
authorised raid on enemy headquarters.
• •
Norman Hanckel took-over as produc-
tion-manager for S. Smith and Son, Ltd.,
Yalumba (S.A.), this month. It is the
first time Yalumba has made such an
appointment. Hanckel was vineyard-
supervisor for Seppelts, running the
Barossa Valley vineyards, and acting as
technical-adviser for vineyards in other
States.
• •
As was noted in The Bulletin the
other week, Australian authors have it
easy compared with songwriters, so hear-
ing that Shirley Bassey, a topliner
currently heading the Sydney Tiv. pro-
gramme, had bought a song locally, The
Bulletin rang her manager, Michael
Sullivan, for details. Mr. Sullivan, like
most show people, was vaguely startled
to be disturbed so close to breakfast-time
and seemed to think at first that The
Bulletin was trying to sell him a song—
“We read hundreds and hundreds of them,
and buy very few,” he said 1 with a note
of discouragement in his voice. Then, as
the conversation clarified, “But this one
we have bought is good. Yes, it is
good.” The song under discussion was
SONGS
written by Keith Macnamara (Hethed
herewith) and Hazel Isherwood, who
collaborate under the double-barrelled
pseudonym of “Marawood and Sherman"’
and who have been songwriting for eight
years, the latter three in London —where
the writing of a good song is by means the
biggest hurdle in the business. Small
though gratifying successes included
8.8. C. broadcasts of their work, and they
estimate that three years’ experience in
London is worth 10 in Australia, and
there would seem to be something in
what they say —selling a song to Miss
Bassey (on a world-market she has only
bought about a dozen so far) is the rough
equivalent of cracking the “Saturday
Evening Post” with a short story.
• •
“A.U.A.”': Sir Shirley Williams
Jeffries, appointed a trustee of the
Savings Bank of S.A., was a member of
the House of Assembly for more than
20 years before retiring in 1953 because
of health reasons. He held Cabinet rank
in both the Butler and Playford Govern-
ments. In his younger days he was an
Australian Rules footballer and a capable
tennis-player. A son of the manse, he has
at all times been an active participant
in Methodist conferences and in the
administration of church institutions.
• •
L. Donovan: Gregory Joseph Don-
nellan, who passed on in' Sydney recently,
was a tower of strength in the T.B.
Sailors, Soldiers and Airmen’s Association
of N.S.W. for many years, and gave a


helping hand in all manner of good
causes. Educated at St. Aloysius’ College,
Milson’s Point, Sydney (he was later
secretary of the Old Boys’ Union), he
enlisted early in War I —his enlistment
number was No. 10 —and left Australia
in October, 1914, as a sergeant in the
First Field Ambulance. He was at the
Landing on Gallipoli, served in France,
and came home late in 1918. He prac-
tised as an accountant for a time, before
becoming State Secretary of the T.B.
Sailors, Soldiers and Airmen’s Associa-"
tion, a position he held for 23 years, until
his retirement due to ill-health in 1955.
• •
The new chairman of the Tariff Board,
Dr. Wilfred Allan Westerman, is rela-
tively young—44—and has the reputa-
tion of being one of the Commonwealth
Government’s brightest backroom boys.
He has been first assistant-secretary of
the Department of Commerce and Agri-
culture since 1953, and three years ago
was well in the running for the post of
director of the International Wool
Secretariat in London. Opposition by
graziers lost him that plum—worth
between £8750 and £12,500 a year—but
he’s had no lack of offers from private
firms. Westerman comes from a Gipps-
land (Vic.) farming family, but was born
in New Zealand, and went to school in
Sydney—at Knox Grammar —before
going on to the Tasmanian and Mel-
bourne Universities. He picked up his
Doctorate of Education at Columbia Uni-
versity, New York (he was already an
M.A. and Bachelor of Education), where
he lectured on rural sociology. He
handled much of Australia’s wool-disposal
from New York, and was one of the first
trade-commissioners operating there after
War 11. Westerman is given a good deal
of the credit for keeping down shipping-
freights from Australia to England in
1953. At .that time shipowners were
talking about a \2\ per cent, ’rise, but.
would not reveal their costs. Westerman
did a lot of research around the water-
front, and came to light with a model-
ship—an average 8000-tonner with an
average freight—which became a pivot of
discussion. The freight-rise in 1953 was
relatively small.
• •
Victoria’s police-chief Selwyn Porter,
who has been pretty comprehensively
done-over on this page recently, goes to
London in September, to attend the
Interpol Conference.
• •
“Uramao”: The Imperial Relations
Trust bursary for a New Zealand journa-
list to spend a year in the U.K. goes
this year to N. L. Macbeth, commercial
editor of the Christchurch “Press.” An
M.A. in Economics, he is secretary of the
Canterbury branch of the Economic
Society of Australia and N.Z., and N.Z. x
correspondent of the Economist Intelli-
gence Unit, London. Service in Egypt
and Italy during War 11, and with the
Occupation Forces in Japan, varied his
economic and journalistic career.
H. O. Fletcher, Deputy Director of the
Australian Museum and Curator of
Fossils, doesn’t remotely resemble a
fossil. No reason why he should, of
course—some top men in various fields
bear a soft of family resemblance to their
specialties; others don’t; Fletcher
emphatically doesn’t. As this Dubois
drawing suggests, he is a genial chap who
could conceivably be any of a dozen
FOSSILS
things; which, as Oscar Wilde some-
where remarks, indicates a certain
robustness of mind —the man who bears
the marks of his trade seldom sees beyond
it.
Be that as it may, up at the Australian
Museum, surrounded by specimens of
rocks, or fossils, or something, Mr.
Fletcher was politely willing to talk
about his work, had this interviewer
known enough about the subject to keep
up one end of the conversation ; having
tried, and failed, rather ignominiously,
the talk drifted to more general subjects,
such as the alleged finding of Lasseter’s
skeleton (Mr. Fletcher laughed heartily),
and the latest news from the Antarctic.
He’s on speaking-terms with both terri-
tories —second-in-command of the Simp-
son Desert Expedition in 1939, organiser
and leader of the Australian Museum’s
scientific expedition to Central and North-
west Australia, 1952, palaeontologist and
assistant-biologist with the British, Aus-
tralian and New Zealand expedition to
the Antarctic 1929-31. It would be grand
to go to the Antarctic again on a quick
trip, he said, but at his age—he’s 54 —a
longer residence might be a bit rugged ;
he was interesting, particularly, on the
human-interest side of life under Antarc-
tic conditions ; and enthusiastic about the
northern inland—“ That countiy really
gets you in.” Quite a few people who
live there, one gathered, went up on trips
and quietly stayed behind.
• •
W. V. Candler, who took his Master’s
degree in Agricultural Science with first-
class honors from Massey Agricultural
College (N.Z.) and his Ph.D. from the
University of lowa (U.S.A.), has recently
joined the staff of the University of New
England as a lecturer in the new faculty
of Agricultural Economics. He has just
completed 21 years of research at lowa
State College, and a series of papers he
has published on linear-programming
techniques—a promising new tool in
farm-management analysis—have made
their mark in specialist circles overseas.
He is' also the joint-author, with Pro-
fessor Earl O. Heady, of a book to be
published soon, Methods of Activity
Analysis for Agricultural Economists. At
the New England University he will carry
out research on economic and manage-
ment problems of livestock industries in
northern N. S. Wales, as well as lecturing
to students in the faculties of Agricultural
Economics and Rural Science.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Adelaide, at 33, Dr. Peter Nossal, Reader
in Biochemistry at Adelaide University since
1954. An outstanding research-worker, he had
been given lubstantial grants’ in support of his
research by the Rockefeller Foundation and the
Carnegie Corporation.
In Melbourne, at 65, Leo J. Mooney,
prominent in Victorian advertising circles. He
served in both World Wars.
At Mt. Gambier (S.A.), at 62, D. J. Corry,
headmaster of Mt. Gambier primary school.
In England, at 54, Dr. Henry Osborne
Merewether, former surgeon to Queen Mary.
Australian-born, receiving his early medical
instruction at Sydney University, he had a
distinguished war-record in War 11, for which
he was awarded 0.8. E.
At Marion (S.A.), at 74, A. E. Sheidow, well-
known S.A. grazier and prominent in local-
government.
In Melbourne, at 70, Jack McAdam, one of
the founders of the “Uncle Bobs Club,” which
in 15 years has raised over £200,000 for crippled
children.


ABORIGINALITIES
TV/TARY GILMORE’S girlhood recollec-
tion of, James Tyson as a simple,
unaffected and very likeable man is borne
out by a yarn I had the other week at
Balranald (N.S.W.) with one of the old
drover-squatter’s former blackboys —
Charley Kirby. Now 89 and about the
last of the Lachlan River tribe, Charley
began his working-life as a stockman on
Tyson’s Juanbung station at the junction
of the Lachlan and Murrumbidgee north
of Balranald. He became Tyson’s special
blackboy, and he says that the millionaire-
squatter, when visiting his many runs,
often first drew rein at the blacks’ camp.
There he would direct a native to catch
him a fish or a duck, after which the
“big white boss” would cook it himself
over a fire, blackfellow fashion. He
preferred this to a meal in the “big
house.” “I can have that any time,” he
tvould say. Incidentally, Charley, who is
still active, is the leading amateur horse-
yet. in the district. He has so many grand-
and great-grandchildren that he would
need to put them through a drafting-race
to pick them out. Today Charley still
makes boomerangs (real ones that will
boomerang) and he has a bottomless well
of bush-knowledge to draw upon.—
“Horseless Horseman.”
“Sevenelms”: This summer in Victoria
a prolific hatch of caterpillars (Persectania
ewingii) has ravened through rye-grass,
maize and grain-crops. A disquieting
domestic corollary has been the frequency
of light-switches smouldering because the
crawlers have squeezed their |in.-diameter
bodies through the 3/32in.-gap between
the switch-trigger and the plate-aperture,
and bridged terminals with what is
ultimately carbon residue. The significant
symptom is any light on when the switch
is not. Careful farmers, at bedtime, are
pulling all fuses except the refrigerator’s.
* * * *
“L.R.M.”: Our mine-manager was
puzzled as to why water should be seeping
back into the west drive —until he found
where the kids had diverted his channel
into a natural depression to make, a beaut
swimming-hole. But the depression wasn’t
natural—it was the old west shaft,
partially silted-up, and it had taken his
pumps all their time to keep it full.
m * * ♦
“Nimrod”: Travellers between
Southern Cross and Kalgoorlie (W.A.)
make a point of being well on their way
before sundown these days. No, there’s
no descendant of Moondyne Joe to
threaten them; it’s the ’roos —in such
numbers that it’s dangerous to travel at
night, especially in the early evening and
morning when the hoppers are on their
way to and from water. There have been
a number of accidents, some serious. The
"Now , remember, archaeologist boiled is archaeologist spoiled."
front-seat passenger of a car found herself
with a young ’roo, which had come
through the windscreen in her lap. Apart
from shock and broken glass, there was
no damage this time, but others haven’t
been so lucky.
* # * *
“Maitri”: For three nights sounds in
the garden like that of a whip cracking
had us puzzled. Then, wandering at dusk
into a far corner to await the promised
southerly,l cleared-up the mystery. They
were caused by long, dry beanpods
falling from a tall bauhinia-tree on to
the hard ground below.
* * * *
- “Liewahlo”: A sudden anguished
croaking combined with furious hissing
sent us scooting for the backyard armed
with shovels. We could have spared our-
selves the trouble. In the torchlight we
saw a fat and indignant green frog
clarpher on to the lid of the garbage-tin,
then, with a combination of froggy
rhumba and much flailing of the front
legs, disentangle itself from the headlock
of a 3in. rhinoceros-bettle. It was fortunate
for all parties that those 3in. of horned
armor-plating refused to go down the
amphibious gullet. A frog with stomach-
ache makes 'a most uncomfortable
night-neighbor.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Bushfires do peculiar things
—they’ll roar, say, through two houses,
miss the next two and destroy one on the
other side of them. But this summer’s
fires on the N.S.W. Blue Mountains
produced the most freakish incident —a
fire raced under the high foundations of
a weatherboard house, burning everything
under it, and didn’t damage the building
in any way.
* * * »
“Van”: It was hot going inside the
circular cement-tank. There was only a
small opening in the top cover, which I
had entered to plaster the inside. Jim
was on the outside acting as handyman.
Soon after I started I decided that a piece
of bag would be useful to smooth-off the
cement. But shout as I did I couldn’t
make Jim understand what I wanted.
Finally I crawled up the ladder and said,
“What the hell’s wrong, Jim —couldn’t you
hear me?” “Yair,” replied Jim, “but the
trouble is your voice goes round and
round in there and won’t come out the
blasted hole!”
* * * *
“Emel”: The Victorian Wimmera is
proving unexpectedly rich in rare midget
marsupials, including Mitchell’s hopping-
mottse, Swainson’s pouched-mouse, the
feather-tailed or pygmy glider and the
pygmy-possum or minuscule marsupial,
long thought to be confined to Tasmania.
Three pygmy-possums—father, mother
and half-grown baby—exactly like ring-




tailed possums in miniature, though less
than 3in. long when fully grown, were
found in a tree cut down at Tooan.
These midgets live on the nectar of wild-
flowers, native shrubs and trees and
insects, particularly the monarch butter-
fly, which is as big as they are. Since
the female’s pouch, like that of the
feather-tailed glider, caters for only four
young at a time, two of the usual litter of
six, smaller than a match-head at birth,
are doomed to die.
* * * *
Oliver Filter: I am happy to accept
“Sevenelms’s” assurance (B. 22/1 /’5B) that
wire ropes are measured by diameter and
not, as I claimed, by circumference. Still,
there are a few heretics we’ll have to
convince. R. Scot Skirving, “an old
Conway,” whose little book, Wire
Splicing, has been immensely useful to
me, says therein that “all wire or fibre
rope is measured by its circumference,
while chain is measured by its diameter.”
An equally useful volume, A Guide for
Riggers, published by the N. S. Wales
Government, says:
Very strictly, the size of steel-wire rope
should be measured similarly to that of
fibre rope, i.e., by the greatest circumference.
Considerable confusion often arises due to
the practice in the engineering trades of
measuring by diameter. The former
method, by circumference, is preferable
due to the ease of measuring, whereas by
diameter the differences between various
sizes of ropes is small, proceeding by only
1/32 of an inch.
Bullivants, a name not unknown in the
wire-rope business, also plump for
measurement by circumference, and the
R.A.N., which also occasionally uses wire
rope, is of the same opinion.
* * * *
“Hamish”: A familiar sight on the
Brisbane River for many years, the old
360-ton gravel-lighter Gayundah has
been towed to the scrapheap. Once the
flagship of Queensland’s 11-ship Navy,
she was built as a river gunboat. As far
back as 1888 her captain, Captain
Wright, R.N., allegedly had to be
dissuaded from shelling Parliament
House —his solution to a rather heated
disagreement with the Queensland
Government. In World War I Gayundah
was a minesweeper, and in 1920, after
being paid-off as obsolete, began work
in the Brisbane River as a lighter.
“He's young to be wearing glasses."
“Horseshoe Bar”: “New Chum” (B.
25/12/’57) should sell those stumpy-
legged Southdowns or Shropshires, or
whatever he’s trying to make into ovine
athletes, and use the proceeds to buy a
mob of leggy, western Merino wethers,
preferably just off shears, and turn them
into a few thousand acres of saltbush for
a while, leaving them largely to their own
devices. He’d better get himself a couple
of wide-casting dogs as well, and a free-
going horse ; they’ll jump when he tries to
count ’em out, but it’s my bet that after
he’s yarded the blankers he won’t need
anything to induce sleep.
• * * *
“Treasure” : The swarm of bees hung
bulbous and promising from a conveni-
ent limb on a tree in the back-paddock,
so Dad put a box with a hinged lid
immediately beneath and sent young
Tommy up the tree with a waddy and
full instructions where to hit. “It’s only
a matter of timing,” he told him, and took
up his own stance beside the gaping box.
“Now!” he yelled. Tommy struck, the
swarm fell and Dad slammed the lid shut.
The only trouble was that his reflexes
were better than he thought—he slammed
the lid about one second too soon.
* * * *
“Bellfield”: The well-meaning fellow
who rushes in to help an angler land his
catch is generally a great asset —to the
fish. Sometimes, however, you can feel
sorry for him. There was the time at
Lake Tabouri (N.S.W.) when a rod-
fisherman hooked a huge flathead on a
light line minus a wire-trace. In the
manner of many big flathead the
whopper came quietly until he was in
very shallow water —then leapt into his
escape-routine, sawing vigorously at the
line. Up rushed the w.-m. f., flourishing
a scoop-net. A quick swish and he had
netted the fish ; a triumphant heave and
—the flathead was through the bottom of
the mesh, leaving the net dangling on the
line. It takes a real angler to land an
o.s. flathead on a light, traceless line with
a scoop-net decorating it. The angler
wasn't quite as good as that. He had my
sympathy ; but my heart really bled for
the well-meaning bloke who, in a deathly
polite silence, had to disentangle his net
from the broken line before rushing
blindly from the ghastly scene. Looking
back, I think it might have been wiser to
sacrifice my net.
* * * *
“Sanasi”: Travelling from Moresby in
an old cockroachy coaster, we went
ashore to watch the boys loading copra
on to large double-canoes. Piles of copra
were stacked on the beach, and the
manager asked his bossboy to go and
count the bags. Away dashed Gegera, a
big greasy illiterate Kiwai, who on return-
ing reported: “I count him, Taubada,
two-pound-seventeen he stop.” Yes, there
were 57 bags.
* * * *
“Gelt”: A circular issued by the New
Guinea Administration, setting-out in
English the procedure to be adopted in
the event of a volcanic eruption, resulted
in about 100 natives in Rabaul panicking)
collecting their goods and chattels and
fleeing for other parts in hired _ trucks,
until they were stopped by police and
officials and the real nature of it ex-
plained. They had taken it to be att
immediate evacuation-order.
REEDS
The shades are asleep
In the deep
With the sky;
A fly
Tips the water’s face
And a ripple like lace
Begins to creep
Away and die.
Out of the stillness a teal glides
As noiseless as a cork afloat,
Making little tides
Like a toy boat.
victoria.
JAMES HACKSTON.


TRAWLERMEN returning to a
southern N.S.W. fishing-port to lay-
up for the festive season were surprised
to pass another local trawler outward
bound, its crew, all arrayed in Davy
Crockett hats, cheering and yahooing like
mad. On reaching port the incoming
trawlermen learnt that their wild frontier
mates, during a hectic party the night
before, had cut up for the trapper-head-
gear a brand-new fur coat which one of
the fishermen had given his wife for
Christmas. They were putting to sea,
before the fisherwife came-to, to get
another haul to pay for a second fur
coat! —“Lower Tops’l.”
* * * *
“Sth. Qld.”: Now I know we are in
the grip of drought; the sideratusa weed
in the backyard is dead!
LIVING WITH FUNGI
TN the rainy season, about January and
February, coastal Queensland becomes
a paradise for every kind of fungus. In
d really wet season I have found clusters
of unfamiliar toadstools settled in the
corners of rooms. There is no greater
affront which a fungus can give to a
housewife, and no fungus can long
survive it, but these —bulging, dwarfish,
unpleasant and even hairy— sent me first
to look them up in my Bailey’s Compre-
hensive Catalogue of Queensland Plants.
My Bailey is old and not, on the
subject of fungi, very informative, but I
managed to identify the invader as the
fork-gill fungus. And, as usual, when
Bailey is actually lifted down from the
shelf (his weight is impressive), it seemed
a pity to lift him back without finding
out a little more about fungi.
Especially as there are such things as
edible fungi, and Bailey seems to list
quite a number for Queensland. I think
of the number of fungi now appearing
in my garden and of the cost of living—
but dying is expensive, too. However,
Bailey mentions only two kinds of fungi
as poisonous. One, an agaric, Amanita
vernus, I know quite well; and surely no
one in their senses would think of eating
so livid and sinister a creature. Like a
stage-villain disguised as the hero, its
imitation of a mushroom is unconvincing
even to children.
What, out of all this wealth of fungi
sprouting everywhere as the rainy season
increases, can one actually eat? Bailey
tells us that those marked “edible” on his
list must all be eaten only when young.
He does not give recipes, unfortunately.
Here is one with a beautiful name —
the edible yellow fairy-club. Where does
one look for it? Bailey forgets to tell us.
Then there are the parasol-mushrooms,
almost all marked “edible,” except the
largest of all —the southern-Queensland
parasol, which is sometimes as much as
9in. across. That would be a splendid
addition to the dinner-table, and it grows
near by, but if Bailey is silent I had better
not experiment.
The oyster - mushroom ( Pleurotus
ostreatus ) would be pleasant to find ; so
would the horse-mushroom, which Bailey
recommends for ketchup. Then there is
the chanterelle. It is marked, “edible,”
but Bailey is honest and tells us it is not
generally liked. It will be difficult enough
to make my family eat fungi, without
forcing them to try the chanterelle.
"What about the Boleti ? I ate them
once in France, and very nice they were ;
and Bailey says that Boletus edulis, “a
favorite for cooking on the continent of
Europe,” grows in Queensland. There
are at least six other Boleti that may be
eaten; but two of these not marked
“edible” have alarming names. What if
the Boletus- picker made a mistake and
chose luridus or felleus?
Then there is Ovina tumulosus, which
Dr. Joseph Bancroft reported to have
been eaten by the aborigines. And there
is Craterellus. Bailey says this is “a great
favorite with fungus-eaters.” But this
sets my mind wandering on the subject of
fungus-eaters. Perhaps, like bush-walkers
and spear-fishermen, they are a special
and exclusive club ; certainly I have never
to my knowledge met any. Most of my
acquaintance distrust even the most
obvious mushroom, and would never
dream of so much as touching a Boletus
without washing their hands afterwards.
Perhaps fungus-eaters meet at times
on country railway-stations, equipped
with stew-pans and bottles of exotic
sauces, and travel to favorite spots where
they can gather in solitude to cook their
Boleti, their Craterelli, their Clavarice and
Hirniolce ? No, perhaps not their
Hirniolce, since Bailey marks the Hirniola,
or ear-fungus, austerely, “edible by
Chinese . . .”
But most of the fungi in my garden
seem to be inedible. Here is a picture
of the goblet-fungus, that surprising red
leathery aseroe that grows under the
Queensland-nut trees, with its elegant
tumbler-shape and edging of double
prongs. Here is geaster, the “Earth-
star,” that four-petalled flower of brown-
and-purple suede I find in the garden-
beds ; here is Clathrus pusillus, the net-
fungus, like a rounded scarlet string-bag ;
and Ithyphallus, called dead-man’s-
fingers, that grows in dreadful pallid
clumps.
And this graceful fragile little
mushroomlike Hyatula is called the small
luminous fungus. I once saw, from a
camp in the scrub, a long fallen log each
side of which carried a line of Hyatulce
as tall as a little finger. All night long
they shed their pale-blue glow, clear
enough to show the ground beneath, and
fireflies flitted along between them as
down a tiny mercury-lighted street.
Then at the foot of a charred stump I
once found a great handsome toadstool,
chestnut-brown and smooth as a horse’s
shoulder, so pleasant to look at that I
picked it and took it home. It was not
until the light was switched out that
night that I remembered it, lying on the
table where I had left it; it was a glowing
patch of yellowish light—not clear and
eerie as the light of little Hyatula, but
friendly as a hurricane-lamp turned low.
Panus incandescens, perhaps?
And the great frilled velvet shelf-fungi,
striped in brown and fawn, that sprout
from fallen trees in the rain-forest? And
those ruby-colored cups, half-an-inch
across, that decorate the bark of the big
Eugenios ?
But it’s time to put Bailey back and
sweep out the fork-gill fungi still leering
in their corner.
KAURU.
“Just show me once more , please, warder. I still cant get that
hackswing of yours”


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
C lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office (or Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
JOBS AND OUTPUT
IN Australia, as in the United
States and Canada, there
has lately been an increase in
unemployment. The Common-
wealth Minister for Labor,
Harold E. Holt, has given the
Australian figure for December
at 58,000 (applicants for
employment), of whom 26,000
were on unemployment benefits.
He expects the figure for
January to be higher, in keep-
ing with other years, but has
mentioned that the unemploy-
ment total has to be considered
in relation to its background—
a total work-force of about
four-million people.
Against such a background
the December unemployment
works-out at under 1| p.c.,
compared with 30 p.c. of actual
trade-unionists unemployed
during the depression, and with
9.7 p.c. at the outbreak of war
in 1939.
The employment position has
changed greatly since 1939,
employed and unemployed
today including a greater
number of married women
than before the war. And many
more people are members of
trade-unions.
At present Australia, even
allowing for the December
unemployed, is still virtually in
a state of full employment,
if not as “overfull” as has been
customary during the past
decade.
The Reasons
That unemployment has
shown some increase in Aus-
tralia is because, fundamentally,
production of goods and
services by men and women
employed is, in the aggregate
or on the average, too low.
It would be an exaggeration
to say that we are loafing our-
selves out of a job, but, overall,
there would be some truth in
the assertion.
While productivity per
average person is so low com-
paratively, we are not creating
enough capital (and investment
confidence) for essential
development and housing, or
enough income to support the
Welfare State at the same time.
The inadequate water-storage
and -distribution facilities in
various parts of N.S.W. are
only one instance of our failure
on the development side.
With our man-hour produc-
tion so low inflation is stimu-
lated and confidence in the
economy is thereby impaired
when an attempt is made to
force national development
merely by expanding the
money-supply.
As a result of our productive
deficiencies, the Federal
Government has been forced to
adopt arbitrary stop-gap
economic controls. These,
almost of necessity, must work
clumsily and, to an extent,
haphazardly.
In our present problem,
which is compounded of a
mixture of costs-inflation,
underproductivity, falling over-
seas prices and underdevelop-
ment, it would be wrong to
try to make exact comparisons
with the economic difficulties
the U.S.A. is now experiencing.
In the United States increased
productivity might possibly
become a temporary embarrass-
ment in a world not geared
to reciprocate with it in inter-
national trade.
In Australia, because it is
an underdeveloped country, a
higher rate of productivity in
many key industries could very
easily be absorbed, especially
at the capital-goods level,
always assuming that higher
productivity meant lower
relative costs.
Lower costs create invest-
ment confidence and attract
capital and desirable popula-
tion.
“Economic Stimulants’*
Most criticism of the Federal
Government in regard to
increasing unemployment has,
as usual, been of a very shallow
order. Most of the critics are
demanding “economic stimu-
tents.” Stimulants are just
about the last thing this infla-
tion-happy country requires,
What it wants is economic con-
fidence.
It is true that the Federal
Government itself, partly
because of Constitutional
inhibitions, has endeavored to
achieve its economic aims by
rather clumsy Budgetary means
and restricting or increasing the
“How're you holding?”
flow of bank-credit. These
methods are by no means all-
sufficing in a country that has
six State Governments with
sovereign powers as well as
a Commonwealth Government.
Industrial powers are im-
portant, as well as those relating
to trade and commerce. These
rights and powers are shared,
and different Governments
have different views and
different ways of implementing
them.
Not Productivity-minded
Few Governments, State or
Federal, are productivity-
minded, and the N.S.W. Labor
Government is trade-union-
dominated, and thus opposed,
willingly or no, to increased
production per man per hour.
Again, it is unusual to find
civil servants as a whole pro-
ductivity-minded. This would
not apply, of course, to
C.5.1.R.0. experts and
specialists in departments
attending to primary produc-
tion and overseas trade, but it
is a fact that Budget policy of
any Government in Australia
rarely places sufficient emphasis
on the needs of the national
production mechanism. This
is crystal-clear from the inci-
dence of payroll-tax, double
company-tax, pumtive private-
co. tax and inadequate depre-
ciation allowances. Arbitration-
court policy, too, in total has
been a hindrance to higher,
more economic productivity in
Australia,
“Overfull” Employment
Generally speaking, since
the war ended Australia has
been in a state of overfull
employment, and this has
resulted in a fall in output per
working-week in many indus-
tries where labor has been in
short supply, and where skilled
labor has often been diluted
with unskilled. It has also
resulted in the payment of
overtime and other penalty-
rates, and often increases in
margins beyond those awarded
by the arbitration courts.
The whole situation was
grossly aggravated by the intro-
duction of the 40-hour week in
1948.
Though considerable immi-
gration has accompanied our
post-war expansion, the new-
comers have created a demand
on existing resources before
adding to our productivity,
and some time must elapse
before their economic as well
as social assimilation is accom-
plished. But they certainly have


What’s in a name?
Names, of course, are largely a matter of
chance. As Shakespeare observed, a rose by
any other name would smell as sweet.
The name of the Bank of New South Wales
originates from the fact that Captain Cook
thought he saw a similarity between South
Wales and part of the Australian coast. In
1770 he took possession of the eastern coast
of Australia, and later named it “New South
Wales”.
“New South Wales” was the name of all
the settled parts of Australia when the Bank
of New South Wales was established in 1817.
The Governor of the day even regarded “New
South Wales” as also including New Zealand,
Fiji, the Solomon Islands, and Tahiti.
Today, the “Wales” (as the Bank is now
familiarly known) with over 1,000 branches
and agencies, serves every State in the
Commonwealth, as well as New Zealand, Fiji,
Papua and New Guinea. It is Australia’s
oldest free enterprise company and largest
trading bank.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
A5761c
pot noticeably added to the
number of unemployed.
Employment and Inflation
The situation has, indeed,
been mainly one of continuing
(sometimes violent) inflation
almost up to the present time.
Only by exercising compara-
tively severe (sometimes
clumsy) economic restraint has
the Federal Government suc-
ceeded in imposing some check
on the rising cost of production
and the self-inflating cost of
living.
Most of the Australian
Budgetary and bank-credit
restraints on inflation were
imposed prior to 1957 in the
face of a very adverse balance-
of-payments position. This
position showed a “dramatic”
change in the 1956-57 year as
a result of the boom in wool
and metal prices, and the
problem then became one of
continuing to keep costs down
in the face of comparative
monetary affluence.
Though there was a spec-
tacular improvement in our
overseas balances, the Federal
Government, in the interests of
checking inflation, continued to
restrict the expansion of bank-
credit.
Now, almost as dramatically
as the change for the better in
1956- in the first half of
1957- there has been a
change for the worse in the
export position following a fall
in the price of wool, metals,
dairy-produce and meat, while
our wheat-harvest has been
severely affected by drought,
which has struck at most other
land industries as well.
Throughout secondary
industries there has been a
slowing-down of the previously
upward impetus, and in some
cases there has been a falling-
away.
Whilst drought is a kind of
calamity that economic
measures cannot hope to
prevent, many of our other
problems arise through our pro-
ductivity being too low and our
costs too high. Also from the
normal time-lag in adjusting
ourselves to a new set of supply-
.and-demand circumstances.
It is our high costs of pro-
duction, more than anything
else, that have made so many
fiscal restrictions necessary
during the past few years. A
higher rate of productivity—
perhaps as little as 10 p.c.—
Would have made our export
position more competitive and
stable and our development in
essential directions much more
rapid.
Development Needed
Our rate of productivity per
employed person needs
encouragement from the highest
level, provided that productivity
at this stage of our existence
can be steered with special
emphasis in the direction of
development. For Australia
industrially is a backward
country by comparison with
many of its overseas com-
petitors, and in order to get out
of our restricted economic hot-
house we need to develop an
increased production potential
as a first step.
Stability and Investment
Stability in costs of produc-
tion is an essential to invest-
ment confidence, whether the
investment is to come from
abroad or from overseas. And
costs can only be kept down by
a reasonable amount of pro-
duction in return for wages
paid.
Some of those who have
taken alarm at the recent rise
in unemployment in Australia
appear to accept the view that
the answer to the problem is to
allow the banking system to
make advances more freely. It
could be that credit-restriction
is operating harshly in certain
cases at present, and, like all
overall and arbitrary arrange-
ments, does not achieve its aim
without doing some actual
damage along the way.
But with employment that
has been “full,” “overfull” or
“nearly full” for the past
decade, and with the burden of
the Welfare State something
not properly understood by the
majority of people, it should
now be growing clear that
many facts of economic life
have to be faced by the whole
community in the near future,
and that some unemployment
may be a prelude to their better
acknowledgment.
Certainly an easing of bank-
credit is no complete answer
to present unemployment
figures, any more than it would
be an answer to the housing
problem, with which it is so
often linked.
By all means let us get on
with the job of providing homes
for those willing to work and
pay for them, but not at a cost
of continuing insidious infla-
tion that actually, in the end,
discourages homebuild-
ing. Already this country, over
the past few years, has had a
bout of inflation second to none
among English - speaking
countries.
Recently the U.K. Chancellor
of the Exchequer and two of
his Treasury Ministers resigned
because they insisted on tough
measures in dealing with the
fight against inflation in
Britain. The issue happened to
be one involving £5O million of
Government spending, but it
followed the lifting of the bank-
rate to 7 p.c., as well as other
measures affecting private enter-
prise.
Clearly these United King-
dom Ministers were not keen
on the idea of “economic
stimulants” as a solution of
their pressing problems. They
regard costs-inflation as their
major enemy. Which is also the
position in Australia.
Paper and Pulp Shares
CJ HARES in Australian Paper
Manufacturers, Ltd.
(A.P.M.) and Associated 'Pulp
and Paper (A.P.P.) for some
little time now have been
bought to give the same
approximate yield of 5.7
p.c. —A.P.M. at 28s. from


OPES
Of Evfiry Type
and Size
Famous for many
years as Queensland's
premier manufacturers
of envelopes we pro-
duce the well known—
“JAXUL” PATENT
CLEAR - FACE WIN-
DOW Envelopes in
sizes 5f ins. x 3| ins.,
6| x 3f and 9 ins. x
4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED En-
velopes in all sizes,
No. 1 to No. 8.
Plain or Printed
COMMERCIAL En-
velopes in all standard
sizes and qualities,
plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application
lockson &
O’Sullivon pty.Ltd.
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers <& Printers
304-3106 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
an 8 p.c. div., and A.P.P. at
31s. 6d. from a 9 p.c. div.
There is no financial relation-
ship between the two cos., and
it is unusual for the shares and
yields of these two concerns to
be so close together.
The pulp-and-paper industry
in Australia is divided roughly
into three sections: (1) pulp,
wrapping-paper and board;
(2) pulp and fine writing- and
printing-paper; (3) pulp and
newsprint.
A.P.M. belongs to the first
category, A.P.P. to the second.
In the third category Australian
Newsprint Mills, of Boyer,
Tasmania, is the sole operator,
and its ord. shares are owned
almost exclusively by the news-
paper industry. But it has been
financially most successful of
the lot, currently paying a
25 p.c. dividend.
Reporting on the industry
generally two months ago, the
Department of Trade com-
mented that newsprint output
of 80,000 tons a year was at
the maximum plant-capacity,
and compared with Australian
requirements of about 260,000
tons a year. Output is sold
forward until 1966.
The other sections of the
paper-and-board industry were
working at about 90 p.c.
capacity ; during 1956-57 out-
put increased 8 p.c., and
further expansion was expected
in 1957-58.
A.P.P. in March, 1957, made
a new issue of 1,415,569 £1
shares (one for five) to assist
in financing its continuing
expansion at Burnie (Tas.) and
its manufacture of building-
board at Burnie and in Queens-
land. Building-board puts the
cream on the top of its profit.
A.P.M. has entered into an
arrangement with Cellulose
(Australia), Ltd., based on soft-
wood forests at Mt. Gambier
in South Australia. A mill is
expected to cost £1,500,000.
Most of its pulp has previously
been produced from Gippsland
hardwoods, plus some imported
pulp.
The Department of Trade in
October reported that the
industry generally was facing
increasing costs, with growing
competition from imports, but
that the industry was confident
of the future.
Now the Tariff Board has
reported a marked improve-
ment in the affairs of A.P.M.
Better working-methods, incen-
tive-payments and a lower rat&
of labor-turnover, accompanied
by changes in plant and equip-
ment, have lifted production
efficiency. Production in unit-
tons per employee rose from
36 in 1952 to 54 in 1955. This
has been reflected in reduced
costs of production, and in a
reduced capital-investment in
relation to each ton of the
paper outturn.
Activities of Associated
Pulp and Paper, according to
the Tariff Board, have now
reached a “critical stage” be-
cause of cost-increases outside
the co.’s control, and because of
a drop in demand. The Tariff
Board also feels that overseas
competition may become
keener, and has recommended
an increase in the duty on
several types of fine paper of
from £8 to £l6 6s. Bd. a ton.
Australian-made Cars
IyTOTORISTS and the
national economy
should benefit from the com-
petition in Australia’s car
industry in the next few years.
The Ford Company has
announced it will make an all-
Australian car within three
years.
At present the Holden, a
General Motors-Holden pro-
duct, is the only all-Australian
car.
The British Motor Corpora-
tion, at Victoria Park, Sydney,
is already well on with plans
for an Australian-made car.
Volkswagens, too, have
announced plans to produce the
popular German car in Aus-
tralia within three years.
And it has been suggested
that American Willys cars and
jeeps will be made here.
The all-Australian Ford will
be produced at the new multi-
million-pound Ford plant at
Broadmeadows, an outer-
Melbourne suburb.
The president of the Ford
Company of Canada, Rhys M.
Sale, has announced that work
on this plant will begin soon.
Production of cars and com-
mercial vehicles is expected to
begin at the plant in about 2\
years.
The all-Australian Ford may
be of similar design to the
English-made Zephyr Six.
Meanwhile British car-
magnate Sir Reginald Rootes,
who is visiting Australia, says
his group has no plans yet for
an all-Australian car.
He said manufacture here for
Rootes was “some consider-
able” way off, but it would
probably come in the future.
Timor Oil
[From li. Owen]
THE statement by the chair-
man of Timor Oil, Ltd.,
made at the annual meeting
held in Sydney on January 21,
will bring little consolation to
those who bought the com-
pany’s shares at boom prices,
and it is not of much use at this
stage to express the opinion
that
despite the care with which the
relevant facts of the prospect were
placed before the public, some stock-
holders and part of the press had
not remembered the nature of the
venture.
I quote two items from the
company’s prospectus.
After reviewing the rather
unfortunate past history of the
search for oil in the area, one
of the consultants says:
The results, however, indicate the
strong possibilities of shallow pro-
duction in this [Aliambata] and
similar areas using modem methods.
The other consultant, rather
more guardedly, says:
The establishing of commercial
production is not as easy as it would
be under less complicated structural
conditions. However, systematic
mapping, the proper selection of the
most effective geophysical methods,
a well-planned slim-hole drilling
campaign should yield positive
results.
The effect of this cautionary
attitude was largely nullified,
however, by a subsequent state-
ment, following on a short
visit to the field, that “known
structures in Timor are less
complex than anticipated,” and
that “the first well at Aliam-
bata would be drilled beside an
old bore which yielded a gusher'
in 1926.” This appears a
strange way to site a well which
was afterwards described as a
stratigraphic test-bore.
To make my own position
clear, I feel justified in repeat-
ing the warning which I gave
at the time (B. 21 /8 / ’57):
From published outcrop evidence
with reference to Timor, and from
unpublished sources, the structure 1
is patently so complex that any
serious evaluation of the prospects
of commercial production there will
require several years of intensive
study.
It is to be hoped, therefore,
that the many other warnings
given in The Bulletin with
reference to the special
problems and risks involved in
the search for petroleum in
oil-seepage areas will be given
consideration.
The announced suspension of
drilling-operations in Aliam-
bata No. 1 well “unless favor-
able conditions are reached
within the next 1000 ft. or
so” is a hopeful sign, and I dare
to expect that a really thorough
examination —geological, geo-
physical and chemical —of the
Viqueque district, and areas to
the south-west of it, will be
accomplished before further
“stratigraphical” (as distinct
from “scout”) bores are sunk.
The drilling of prospective oil-
wells may then legitimately be
considered.
Tinplate Output
T>ROKEN HILL PROPRIE-
TARY produced a record
4306 tons of tinplate in
December.
This compares with 3041
tons in November; 3391 in
October; 2615 in September;
and 1466 tons in August, the
co.’s first production-month.
Capacity of the hot-dip tin-
plate plant is 72,000 tons a year
—almost 60 p.c. of Australia’s
requirements.
Flax-mills to Close
r T'HE Commonwealth h aS
-*• decided to sell or shut-
down seven flax-mills it owns.
The mills are valued at
£436,000. Six of them, which
handle more than 80 p.c. of
Australia’s are
in Victoria. The other nuj|
is at Mt. Gambier, South
Australia.




PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
incorporated in Lay land
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“The Great Sebastians”
This cheerful bit of nonsense,
written by Howard Lindsay
and Rusel Crouse and put on
at the Melbourne Comedy,
pokes fun at national ideals,
totalitarian ethics and Com-
munist loyalties as well as the
idiosyncrasies of individuals,
and it does it all very well.
One scene, in which the
Great Sebastians, fake mind-
readers, are invited by General
Zandek, of Prague, Czecho-
slovakia, to his. apartments to
read the minds of his fellow
party-leaders is really funny.
In a totalitarian State there is
no place for the unconscious;
will and wish are one, and
when they diverge the devil’s
in ’em. So after the mind-
readers have played on the
feelings of the general’s guests
for only a few minutes, it turns
out that everybody is - more
or less subconsciously plotting
the downfall of everybody else,
including the general, who him-
self is planning to bolt to a
neutral country. For the
offence of exposing this
departure from “democratic”
ethics the Sebastians are
arrested, but escape in the
general’s car.
The play might have been
written for the arch-comedic
talent of Ursula Jeans, and
probably was. It isn’t likely to
have had any more serious
intention. Whether the other
half of the Sebastian duet
fitted Roger Livesey isn’t known
to this commentator, as that
urbane gentleman was indis-
posed on the occasion that he
saw the entertainment. Eric
Starling, his understudy, stood
in for him and was eminently
satisfying. General Zandek
was excellently caricatured by
Eric Reiman. Security police-
men, soldiers and lady poli-
ticians were amiably misrepre-
sented by Walter Brown,
Shirley Donald, Peter Aanen-
sen, Bobby Mack and others.
❖❖ • ❖
“The Lady’s Not for Burn-
ing”
Sydenham (Sydney) Pocket
Playhouse’s latest venture is
“The Lady’s Not For Burning,”
by Fry ; hardly a pocket-size
job, in terms of production, but
given a fair enough run.
Two faults sprang to notice:
the stage was far too small
(better suited to plays set in
drawing-rooms), and the floor
was carpeted. So when the
orphaned clerk Richard gets
down on hands and knees with
a bucket and cleaning-rag it’s
hardly convincing, even though
the bucket was empty and the
wringing-out simulated . . .
About the play there’s little
to say except that Fry has a
good deal to say on Life, Love,
Religion and Death. Thomas
Mendip, a discharged soldier,
fabricates a murder so *he can
be hanged ; his excuse, it seems,
is that he wants to be freed
from a world creaking with
corruption. He approaches the
Mayor: “I have come to be
hanged.” His Worship casts
him a worried glance. “Have
you filled-in the necessary
forms?”
Typical Fry wit, directed at
the Church jf not the But
i( , onl in these rejoinders F
‘“?“? “
vulgar “ relaxatl . on = l£ you
miss a dozen words from one
of his ultra-lengthy sentences
you’re in the soup. You can
forgive his longwindedness,
though, when a shooting-star
becomes “an excess of phlegm
in the solar-system on its way
t° a heavenly spittoon.”
The dialogue, geared 'to an
intelligence-quotient of 160 or
thereabouts, doesn’t always fit
Fry’s characters; the brief
appearance of Matthew Skipps,
a drunken old reprobate skil-
fully mixing his Biblical quota-
tions, is unsatisfying. Not that
John O’Sullivan failed
altogether to elevate drunken-
ness to the levels of genius ; he
made Matthew a disreputably
real old chap.
As Jennet Jourdemayne, the
metaphor-spouting witch who
isn’t, Beverley Harte acted with
polish and assurance, making
light of a tricky part. The
brothers Nicholas and
Humphrey Devize, who stalk


m
m
i
&
! Y
Effect all your Insurances with
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
Insurance Company Limited
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
■Phone: BWIOII, BW 1011, BW4t»l
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
All types of General insurance
Directors t
STRUAN ROBERTSON (Chairman)
S. E. A. STIRLING. JAMES H. STEPHENSON.
R. G. GALE. RAYMOND S. GOWARD, C.B.E.
A. C. MAITLAND
Managing Director;
N. E. MANION,
Manager
Branch*! and Aganeiai la ail ftataa.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
• )
through the play hurling fists,
bricks and verbiage at each
other, were played respectively
(and respectably) by Ron
Farrow and Graham Corry.
Then there was the Mayor,
alias Barry Zietsch; insistent
on proper procedure, caught-up
in a web of petty officialdom
and suffering a perpetual cold —
hence, dubbed “Dripnose.” Mr.
Zietsch, one felt, gave a reason-
able account, if his snufflings
were somewhat exaggerated.
Alizon Devitt, tossing-up
between three suitors, was
presented by Betty Andrews,
Douglas Bladon’s Chaplain was
an instant and continuous
success, and Ellen Bland was
coolly old-worldish (1400 either
more-or-less exactly) as
Margaret Devize, mother of
Nicholas and Humphrey. The
orphaned clerk Richard was,
warily, well enough portrayed
by Bruce Gordon, and as
Thomas Mendip John Cooper
was mostly good except where
Fry’s verbosity caused him
momentarily to flounder;
again, not all his pauses were
artistic or desirable.
Which just about covers
everyone, save Edward Tapper-
coom, a Justice, given a really
brilliant reading by Don Cooke.
Corpulent, urbane, hands
folded across a bulbous padded
stomach (was this a safety-
measure? Pillows are unpre-
dictable things) he was a Justice
to be justly proud of.
A. W.
Artbursts
An invasion from Bendigo
opened the 1958 art season at
Melbourne Athenasum. If the
twelve artists concerned are
representative, nothing revolu-
tionary is happening in the one-
time golden city. Unatmos-
pheric still-life alternate with
equally unatmospheric land-
scape, though R. G. Paynter
shows a sensitiveness to the
subtler effects of nature in
“Morning Mist,” “Rain Clouds”
and “The Dust Storm.” The
abstractionist epidemic hasn’t
apparently yet spread to this
charming provincial city, but
there is a mild foretaste of it
in lan Chisholm’s “Highways
of the Moon.” There is some
doubt as to whether the artist
is charting highways to the
moon or on it. Grace Somer-
ville shows more accomplish-
ment than any of her con-
freres. Using a sketch tech-
nique she produces a vigorous
study of a young woman which
could be carried further, and
there is plenty of depth in her
“Patonga Creek, N.S.W.”
Films
“Race for Life”
Suspense is tautly maintained
throughout this French film,
directed with imagination and
feeling by Christian-Jaque ; the
pace never slackens, and the
mock-heroics which could
easily have intruded have been
rigidly barred.
The story, written jointly by
the director and H. G. Clouzot
(who made “Wages of Fear”),
tells of a desperate race against
time to save the crew of a
French fishing-trawler out in
the North Sea, almost all of
whom have been stricken with,
to them, a mysterious malady.
The skipper sends out an
urgent appeal for help on the
short-wave radio-band, which
is heard by only one “ham” —
a Frenchman in Togoland—and
a local doctor correctly
diagnoses the complaint from
the described symptoms as
botulism. The message is
relayed to Paris and picked up
by a youth whose frantic efforts
to overcome a host of obstacles
and get the needed serum on
its way sparks-off a chain-
reaction of high endeavor
with a bitter grudge against the
world, a Polish air-hostess, a
blind man in Munich, a Yankee
Air Force sergeant in West
Berlin, a Red Afmy officer in
East Berlin and a Norwegian
air-pilot.
The acting is never less than
convincing by the entire cast, a
large one containing no star
Gallic names. The English sub-
titling is particularly lucid.
At Sydney Vogue.
❖ ❖
“Love in the Afternoon”
To stretch the running-time
of this romantic comedy set in
Paris, producer-director Billy
Wilder has slackened the
tempo a bit, but the aside-
touches are so «deft and the
acting so expert that one is
hardly aware of the attenuation
of the story.
Gary Cooper plays a wealthy
American Casanova on to
whom a jealous husband has
sooled private-eye Maurice
Chevalier. The detective’s
romantic young daughter
(Audrey Hepburn) overhears
her father’s client threaten to
shoot the playboy and rushes
to warn him, bundling the
erring wife out of the Casa-
nova’s hotel suite and taking
her place, to the confusion of
the gun-toting husband when
he bursts in. The girl choosing
to remain anonymous, Casa-
nova Cooper enlists a private
detective (her father, of course)
to track her down, and from
this —and from the girl’s efforts
to convince the playboy that
she is not so innocent as she
seems —springs most of the
film’s entertainment.
Audrey Hepburn gives a
fresh and charming perform-
ance ; Chevalier’s Parisian
detective is an engaging mixture
of cynicism and paternity;
Cooper’s playboy is the least
convincing of the trio.
At Sydney Mayfair.
❖ *> *>
“The Careless Years”
The sexual frustrations of a
couple of featherbrained
college co-eds form the basis of
this dreary drama at Sydney
Esquire. Character-drawing all
round is of the sketchiest, and
the effect of all the calf-love
anguish on the respective sets
of parents is blown up into
a frenzy of neuroticism.
Dean Stockwell, as the youth,
tries to imitate the style of
acting adopted by the late
James Dean but makes a hash
of it; Natalie Trundy, as the
flapper who would like to yield
but daren’t, is no better.
“The Abominable Snow-
man”
A noble-minded British
explorer who simply wants to
view a yeti in its natural
habitat, and a nasty-minded
Yank whose aim is to capture
one and put in on TV, team-
up to capture the ice-loving
creature of legend which has
tickled the world’s imagination.
The documentary library has
been called upon heavily for
scenery, there is much swirling
of snow, and a build-up of
audience-suspense for the final
view of the A.S. by way of huge
footprints and much basso-
prof undo roaring from behind
rocks.
Then, when everybody is
ready to reach for the sal-
volatile, the Abominable bloke
makes a two-second appearance
and his dial turns out to be
no more horrific than that of
many a male chorister in the
“Messiah.”


The Legend of "Long Mac"
“T ONG MAC,” otherwise
James Theodore Clavett
MacKenzie, whose ashes were
ceremoniously laid to rest in
Broome in the first week of the
New Year, was “discovered” by
so many Australian writers that
he was a legend in • his own
time.
Born in Victoria 83 years
ago, Long MacKenzie, with the
call of the sea in his blood, left
home at an early age and
struck out, “like a young
turtle,” he said, for the Queens-
land coast. He told us he had
been “just another wild
colonial boy,” but the distinc-
tion of his appearance and the
courtliness of his manner
seemed always too intrinsic a
part of him to have been picked
up along the way. I doubt that
anyone was told the real story
of his boyhood.
He came of age in the
Celebes on a trader running
copra, trepang, nutmeg and
pearlshell in and out the warm
spice-islands and up the China
coast, but digressions on the
romance and adventure of these
years, always interrupted a con-
secutive account.
“That was when I was
managing the nutmeg planta-
tion on Banda Island,” he would
say. “It was coming back from
Macassar in the ketch that I
witnessed the surrender to the
Dutqh of the last independent
Rajah of the East Indies.
There’s a story for you now. ..”
His tales, so rich in detail,
often interwoven with the
history of the times, had some-
thing of the elusive quality of
dreams. Without a notebook to
hand one quickly forgot the
finer points while retaining the
general impression of a vivid
experience. Henrietta Drake-
Brockman, who lived in
Broome during the late
’twenties, was the first of our
writers to light upon this prince
of storytellers, and she wisely
set down his anecdotes as he
related them. Her early series
of “Veranda Tales,” and her
novels' Blue North and Sheba
Lane, first published serially in
The Bulletin, - owed much to
“Long Mac.”
Next in the field came
Ernestine Hill, pioneer of a
long line of writers and journa-
lists to strike out from the
cities and gather in the stories
of a quickly passing generation.
She told of the “Viking Mac-
Kenzie” in her Great Australian
Loneliness. Idriess followed,
drawing from this seemingly
inexhaustible source for his
Forty Fathoms Deep. After the
war, Coralie and Leslie Rees,
and Norman Bartlett, redis-
covered the now-ageing but
no less eloquent “Uncle Mac.”
Bartlett quotes him at length in
The Pearl Seekers : —
The colored folk say the Ninety
Mile Beach is haunted... .Why, the
whole coast is haunted, right roupd
from derelict Cossack to T.I. and
the Great Barrier Reef As for
8r00me.... but nowadays there
aren’t enough queens and courtesans
to make the pearl-business pay....
No bloods or blades or unearned
increment of lovely ladies who stoop
to f011y.... Give me the good old
days before the world became indus-
trialised, hygienised.....
TTOW clearly I can hear his
sonorous and beautifully
modulated tones, “silver a? the
label on the bottle,” as he
sipped his gin at the nightly
gathering known as “Opera-
tion Silver Star,” described by
the Reeses in their Spinifex
Walkabout. I, too, have partici-
pated in this post-war ritual
held in the kitchen of the old
Bishop’s Palace, which Mac
and his old crony Kennedy
occupied for many years and
where he expounded with
episcopal dignity and rhetoric
his anything but sacredotal
memories.
It was here I heard again,
not so long ago, how, after years
among the islands, he became
associated with James Clark,
“The Pearl King,” who, from
headquarters in Brisbane, con-
trolled a fleet of ships operating
from Thursday Island to
Broome and up around the
Celebes. Mac was for some
time in charge of Clark’s pearl-
ing-fleet in the East Indies and
when, in 1915, it was decided
to transfer 30 luggers to Wes-
tralian waters he came as
manager on the parent vessel
Alice.
South of Timor the schooner
lost sight of her companion
ships, struck the treacherous
Brue reef off Cape Levique
and sank slowly to rest with
only the toppermost parts of
her rigging above the tide. In
this precarious perch Mac and
most of the colored crew spent
five days and four nights while
a small whaler, detached from
the wreck, set off to find help.
Mac rationed their only water
from one canvas bag and kept
up the spirits of his men by
telling endless stories in their
native Malay. Thirteen fellows,
crazy with hunger, insisted on
swimming to an exposed part
of the reef at low tide in search
of shellfish and were drowned
by the rip-tide. What a tale
it was of desperate hope,
agonising thirst, cramp, and
sun-blistering before a lugger,
contacted by the whaler’s crew
in Beagle Bay, turned up to
rescue them!
Although Long Mac arrived
in Broome when the early
boom-days were over, the town
still maintained its colorful
character and the pearlers in
their white-painted bungalows
lived in a style typical of
Europeans in the Far East.
Colored servants polished the
wide verandas, kept the lawns
green* and clipped, shone-up
the brass, cooked the many-
course meals and laundered the
white-drill suits that were the
pearler’s uniform. The price of
shell had dropped but pearls
were still fairly plentiful, and
Mac had his share of fortune,
one of his luggers bringing in,
during his first year in Broome,
the lovely “Star of the West”
which sold in London for
£6500.
He was operating in partner-
ship with Maurie Lyons when
I first met him in the early
’thirties. The depression that
had closed in everywhere had
cast a heavy shadow over
Broome but, though he was not
long to remain in business, Mac
still drove his oyster-tinted
Buick with the mother-of-pearl
dashboard which I, at 17,
thought the height of exotic
splendor. H? taught me to drive
it on the big, flat marsh outside
the town with kerosene-tins
yards apart for reversing prac-
tice. I dinged the tins, but he
assured me that didn’t mean a
thing as tins dinged easily. He
then directed me towards the
police-station and told me to
back through the gates. I had
several tries and dinted the
mudguard before I made it.
“Miss Mary wants her
licence,” he told the police-
officer, who was understandably
doubtful.
“Hadn’t she better learn to
reverse?”
“Great Heavens, man! Didn’t
you see the way she sailed
through these gates?”
“You don’t need reverse gear
in this country anyway,” he
told me, as I drove home, a
somewhat dazed but licensed
driver. “That’s only for the
cities, and you’d best keep out
of them.”
'HG'HEN his pearling days were
* ’ over Mac remained in
Broome, probably working
harder as secretary of the Road
Board than ever in the pukka-
sahib days of his youth. When
war broke out he refused to
leave the town with the general
exodus of civilians, so in his
latter years he had the story
of the Japanese raid to add to
his repertoire. He was there to
help bury the 53 Dutch dead,
mostly women and children
evacuated from Java to be
strafed in the two Qantas flying-
boats ready for take-off in Roe-
buck Bay.
He aged almost imperceptibly,
but his tales of adventure and
derring-do often gave place,
as time went on, to vigorous
denunciations of a changing
world and the decadence of
youth. He would wave a dis-
paraging hand towards the
young bloods gathered at the
bar:
“We’re breeding a Mediter-
ranean type, lazy, go-as-you-
please, but without the Medi-
terranean culture and gallantry.
The women pander to them, of
course—everything handed to
them on a platter, and to think
of the way we had to fight for
it! We need a fresh influx of
hardy mountain people—High-
land Scot, Scandinavian —or we
are doomed. . .”
Long Mac lived up to the
best traditions of his Empire-
building age. As Justice of the
Peace and, later, Justice for the
State, he bore the “white man’s
burden” conscientiously, and
the colored people of the dis-
trict respected him for his sense
of fair-play, loved him because
he always knew their names
and asked after their children.
The aboriginal Paddy Judewin,
No. 1 offsider of his Road
Board days, remained his
devoted attendant. The two
were in full agreement about
the youth of today, black and
white, and heth bemoaned the
good old days when Broome
was Broome and pearls were
Fortune’s favors for her
courtiers.
(Continued on page 31)
By MARY DURACK


&
B
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
DIRECTORS:
THE BON.
T. A. J. PLAYFAIR.
m. 1.0., chairman;
SIR EDWARD R. KNOX,
VICE-CHAIRMAN ;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. B. LYSAQHT;
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
JOHN DARLING;
A. G. ARMYTAGE,
MANAGING DIBBOTOB.
W. S. MATTHEWS.
MANAGBB.
Efficient and Helpful Service
for your dependents . .
ONE of the most thoughtful and considerate things a
man can do for his family is to ensure freedom from
all the cares and worries that so frequently go hand in
hand with Estate administration.
By appointing Perpetual Trustee C<?mpany (Ltd.) as
your Executor and Trustee—alone, or jointly with a
relative or friend, you will ensure that, when the time
comes, your Estate will be in the safe, experienced hands
of a Company with a proud record of more than 70 years’
faithful service to the Community; you will ensure, for
your dependents, a service that is personal, friendly and
understanding.
If you would know more of the Company’s service,
and what it costs, ring BO 377 or write, and make an
appointment. If you prefer,
ask that a copy of the
Company’s helpful and in-
formative booklet be sent to
you. It is free and post free.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power ot Attorney for Absentees and Others, Administrator, etc.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY OFFICES AT ORANGE & TAMWORTH
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY
(CANBERRA) LTD.
INDUSTRY HOUSE
NATIONAL CIRCUIT
CANBERRA
LOCAL DIRECTORS IN ADDI-
TION TO THOSB DIRECTORS
MENTIONED AT TUB LEFT!
WARREN D. MCDONALD,
0.8. E., VICE-CHAIRMAN
S. G. McFARLANE. 0.M.0.
NEVILLE C. MILSON
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Ampol Petroleum, Ltd.
AN “abnormally high” profit from
shipping activities contributed in no
small measure to the spectacular leap
in net earnings reported by Ampol
Petroleum, Ltd., for the year ended
September 30 last.
At the time of the Suez crisis the oil-
tankers controlled by the co. were all in
a position to take advantage of the steep
—but temporary —rise in tanker-freights
which followed the blocking of the canal,
and it would appear that £709,712 of the
£993,323 increase in last term’s pre-tax
earnings was attributable to shipping
operations.
This windfall should not influence
estimates of the co.’s future earnings.
More significant in this regard are the
decision to buy additional tankers, the
24.4 p.c. increase in sales-gallonage
achieved over the year, and the fact that
the co.’s sales of motor-spirit rose by
12.8 p.c., against an increase of only 5.4
p.c. in Australian consumption.
Originally known as Australian
Motorists Petrol Co., Ltd., Ampol has
come a long way since it set out in 1936
with a paid capital of £200,000 and a
determination to break into the petrol-
selling business in N.S.W. The paid
capital of Alba Petroleum Co. of Aus-
tralia Pty. (Melbourne) was acquired in
1945, the co. adopting its present title
three years later.
Guided by an enterprising and
energetic management and assisted by
an expanding market for petroleum
products, Ampol'has grown at a pheno-
menal rate over the last five or six years,
sales-gallonage increasing by 149 p.c.
since 1952 and net earnings by 372 p.c.
in the same period.
To obtain these results a heavy outlay
on service-stations, storage-installations,
tankers, etc., has been necessary. To
finance this expenditure and provide the
increased working-capital demanded by
a rapidly expanding turnover, the co.
has sought additional capital from its
shareholders in six of the last nine years,
while at the end of last term loans, notes
and overdrafts figured in the balance-
sheet at a total of £6,147,392.
Final payment on scrip issued last
term (one-for-two, at par), due next
October, will take paid capital close to
£lO million. This will be followed by
another par issue, the size of which has
yet to be announced. Portion of the
share-premiums collected from earlier
share-issues was returned as bonus-scrip
in 1955 (one-for-four) and in 1956 (one-
for-five).
Revenue from all sources last term
rose by £5,293,885 (25.8 p.c.) to
£25,844,978, sales, measured in gallons,
increasing from 117,685,728 gallons to
146,576,017 gallons. Over a fifth of the
record revenue went to the Government
as duty and another 3.1 p.c. was set aside
for taxation (£814,798, up £336,624),
but, after providing £685,415 (up
£164,959) for depreciation, net profit
jumped' by £656,699, or 84.2 p.c., to
£1,436,519:
Ampol & Subsidiaries.
, Dividends ■, Nominal
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1953 .. 366,930 6 10 128,801 1,203,565
Surplus on charter claims, £127,279 1,330,844
Share premiums, £1,400,000 .. 2,730,844
1954 .. 328,638 6 346,177 2,713,305
Note issue exes, w/off, £37,500 .. 2,675,805
Goodwill written-off, £23,700 .. 2,652,105
1955 .. 585,948 6 12J 405,512 2,832,541
To.staff fund, £20,000 .. .. 2,812,541
Note-issue expenses, £37,500 .. 2,775,041
Reserves capitalised, £745,244 .. 2,029,797
Share-premiums, £440,756 .. 2,470,553
To capital reserve, £150,000 .. 2,620,553
Revaluation fixed assets, £1,213,972 3,834,525
1956 .. 779,820 6 526,202 4,088,143
Reserves capitalised, £994,237 .. 3,093,906
Share-premiums, £11,051 .. .. 3,104,957
Tax overprovided, £30,161.. .. 3,135,118
Share-issue expenses, £9610 .. 3,125,508
To staff fund, etc., £48,002 ... 3,077,506
1957 . 1,436,519 6 12J 812,825 3,701,200
* Subject to intangibles, £328,964 at 30/9/’57.
Lifting the average div.-rate for the last
10 years to 10.3 p.c., the ord. div. was
calculated on a \2\ p.c. basis for the
fourth successive term, net earnings
covering the £60,000 pref. div. and 21.7
p.c. on the larger average ord. capital,
compared with 17, 19.1, 11.7 and 16.6 p.c.
back to 1953. A little under £1 million
will be needed to maintain pref. and ord.
div.-rates in the current term.
Two tankers on long-term charter and
one co.-owned vessel make a substantial
contribution to earnings, and a second
tanker now under construction will be
delivered next year. In addition the co.
is to place an order for a super-tanker of
32,000 tons. This vessel will be built by
B.H.P. at the Whyalla (S.A.) shipyard if
negotiations for a subsidy from the
Commonwealth Government are
successful.
Ampol’s 70 p.c. interest in Ampol
Exploration, Ltd., which in turn holds
20 p.c. of the share-capital in West Aus-
tralian Petroleum Pty. (Wapet), adds a
speculative interest to the co.’s scrip.
The investment in this subsidiary was
unchanged last term, but the parent co.
earmarked.£24s,ooo of its retained earn-
ings for “anticipated exploration expendi-
ture.” Future capital-contributions are
to be financed out of current revenue.
A lot of the fresh capital raised over
the past five years has gone into the con-
struction of an Australia-wide chain of
service-stations. Coupled with expendi-
ture on other fixed assets, this had led to
some imbalance between current assets
and current liabilities, but the board
considers that the improvement in sales
over the last two years “is directly trace-
able to the large number of co.-owned
service-stations erected.” Completion of
units under construction at the end of
last year is expected tio give the co.
adequate representation in this field.
Last term’s expenditure on fixed assets
exceeded £3 million, the excess of current
liabilities over current assets increas-
ing by £30,047 to £1,216,154. The need
for additional funds is apparent from the
balance-sheet, but inclusion of uncalled
capital (a net £1,808,400 at September


30 last) with assets would give a clearer
picture of the financial position:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £3,744,850 £5,608,038 £8,128,284
Reserves .. 2,812,541 4,088,143 3,701,200
Loans .. 392,304 1,003,950 1,236,317
Notes . . .. 1,500,000 2,886,500 2,968,300
Overdrafts .. 3,496,421 1,413,368 1,942,775
Creditors .. 1,105,488 3,886,888 3,939,357
Staff funds . . 50,000 50,000 54,000
Tax-provision. . 298,000 542,684 843,000
Final divs. ‘ . . 172,750 233,100 410,617
£13,572,354 £19,712,671 £23,223,850
\ B ’ sl4 ’ 037 13,179,719 15,594,477
Shares Ampol Ex-
ploration .. 860,478 1,417,940 1,417,940
Advances subsid. ' 102,000
Note-redemption
fund .. - 30,000
Stocks .. .. 1,690,532 1,874,762 2,273,537
Debtors, cash, etc. 2,175,380 2,861,866 3,476,932
Intangibles . . 331,927 378,884 328’,964
£13,572,354 £19,712,671 £23,223,850
The shareholders’ equity in the business
improved slightly over the year, rising
from 49.1 p.c. to 50.9 p.c. of total assets,
and at balance-date each £ of ord. capital
was supported by 295. 6d. in net tangible
assets.
Sales in the first quarter of the current
term were 24 p.c. higher than those in
the corresponding period of 1956, and,
while the tanker-fleet is unlikely to
improve on last term’s effort, the co.
should have no trouble in covering a
12} p.c. div. on the enlarged ord. capital.
With the co.’s growth potential and the
forthcoming par-issue in mind, the share-
market prices the f.-p. ss. ords. at 13s. lid.,
to return £4 9s. lOd. p.c. from a 12£ p.c.
div. The contribs., paid to 25., are
currently fetching around 9s. 7d., options
to take up scrip at a premium of 10s. be-
tween December, "1959, and December,
1961, selling recently at Is. lOd. (Holders
of these options, issued with 6 p.c. notes
late in 1954, were invited to exercise their
rights in 1955 and again in 1956, but a
number are still outstanding.)
New Zealand Insurance Co., Ltd.
IN common with scrip in other long-
established and prosperous insurance
offices, the £1 (N.Z.) stock-units in New
Zealand Insurance Co., Ltd., offer the
investor a high degree of security for
both capital and income, as well*as the
possibility of future capital-gains. The
sharemarket prices the stock accordingly,
and at 100 s. the scrip would return a
modest £3 2s. 6d. from a continued
12} p.c. div. at current rates of exchange.
Looking to investment income for the
bulk of its div.-requirements, the co. has
accumulated sizeable reserves which
strengthen earning-power, in relation to
share-capital, and provide a potential
source of bonus-issues. «The last distri-
bution of gift-scrip, in i 955, was a one-
for-one affair, and took paid capital to
£3,000,000. No less than ‘12, 700,000 of
this total has come from reserves.
Established almost a century ago, N.Z.
Insurance writes fire, accident and marine
business in most of the non-Communist
countries of the world. Head-office is in
Auckland (N.Z.), but well over 80 p.c.
of premium-income comes from outside
the Dominion. (The co. carried a propor-
tion of the insurance on the liners Andrea
Doria and Stockholm which collided off
the American coast in 1956.)
Net premiums increased by £425,971
to £7,861,046 over the year to May 31 last,
but an “exceedingly bad year in North
America,” where the co. is particularly
active, sent the loss-rate to the highest
point for 51 years, and slashed the under-
writing surplus by 74 p.c. Motor-vehicle
policies, generally, were also troublesome.
According to the chairman (R. D.
Horton), competition in U.S.A. has
forced down insurance rates to “quite
uneconomic levels,” and while steps have
been taken to limit business written in
America under present conditions, some
time may elapse before these moves have
any effect on earnings.
All told, losses increased by £767,314,
taking an extra 1225. p.c. (74.5 p.c.) of
net premium income. Expenses (down
Is. p.c.) grew less rapidly than premiums,
but, after increasing the reserve for un-
expired risks by £129,000 (£202,000 in
the previous term), the underwriting-
surplus tumbled from £352,393 to £91,054,
representing 3 p.c. on share-capital:
Loss Expense
Tear. Net Rate. Rate.
May Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c.
81, £ N.Z. £N.Z. £N.Z.
1952. . 6,038,582 3,595,966 1,662,267 59.5 27.5
1953.. 6,860,338 4,144,044 2,121,549 60.3 30.9
1954 .. 6,923,875 4,342,297 2,151,692 62.7 31.0
1955. 6,774,964 4,258.287 2,104,205 62.8 31.0
1956. . 7,435,075 5,089,421 1,724,458 68.4 23.2
1957.. 7,861,046 5,856,735 1,784,257 74.5 22.7 • -
At £4,561,000 the reserve for unexpired
risks equalled 58 p.c. of net premiums,
well above the recognised 40 p.c. ratio,
but below the previous term’s 59.6 p.c.
On the brighter side, the net yield from
investments rose from 3.24 p.c. to 3.53
p.c., investment income, after tax and
a £41,492 charge for depreciation, im-
proving by £37,381 to £417,683.
As a result of the unfavorable under-
writing experience, total net profit fell by
£223,958:
To Re- Re-
May, Profit.* ,— —Dividends s serves. serves.
£N.Z. £N.Z. £N.Z. £N.Z.
Less exchange adjustment, £lO5O .. 7,867.866
To unexpired risks. £119,000 .. 7,986,866
1954. .610,919 20 p.c. = 300,000 310,919 8,297,785
Less exchange adjustment, £82,144.. 8,21a,641
1955. .745,451 25 p.c.*= 375,000 370,451 8,586,092
Reserves capitalised, £1,500,000.. 7,086,092
Less exchange adjustment, £54,022 7,032,070
To unexpired risks, £202,000 . . 7,234,070
1956. .732,695 12* p.c. = 375,000 357,695 7,591,765
Profit, sale investments, £126,048 .. 7,717,813
Written-off on devaluation of curren-
cies, £40,196 .. .. .. 7^,677,617
To unexpired risks, £129,000 .. 7',806,617
1957. .508,737 121 p.c. = 375,000 133,737 7,940,354
* After allowing for unexpired risks.
Claimed after providing an unspecified
amount for taxation, the £508,737 profit
represented 16.9 p.c. on share-capital,
compared with 24.4 p.c. in the 1956 term,
investment income (13.9 p.c. on capital)
more than covering the unchanged
p.c. div.
The sound financial structure should
please both shareholders and policy-
holders :
f New Zealand Currency —^
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital.. £1,500,000 £3,000,000 £3,000,000
Reserves .. 4,356,092 3,159,765 3,379,354
Unexpired risks 4,230,000 4,432,000 4,561,000
Unadjusted losses 2,393,568 2,744,397 3,126,707
Creditors, tax
provision .. 710,087 573,658 973,972
Pinal div. .. 225,000 225,000 225,000
£13,414,747 £14,134,820 £15,266,033
Freeholds, etc. 1,301,799 • 1,332,116 1,537,760
Shares . . 2,616,500 2,859,525 2,986,547
Shares in subsid. 95,169 95,169 95,169
Mortgages . . 961,415 1,267.,348 1,570,208
Debtors, etc. .. 828,737 1,459,128 2,286,532
Bonds, debentures,
cash, etc. ~ 7,611,127 7,121,534 6,789,817
£13,414,747 £14,134,820 £15,266,033
An additional £302,860 went into mort-
gage-loans over the term, and, in line
with present-day trends, the co. increased
its shareholdings (up £127,022), while
funds invested in Government and semi-
Government securities were reduced by
£373,778. Book-debts continued to climb
(up £827,404), and appear to make up a
rather heavy load at £2,286,532.
Including the provision for unexpired
risks, the £1 units had a net tangible
backing of 725. lid. (N.Z.) or 91s. 2d.
(Aust.) at balance-date.
Whale Industries, Ltd.
from the Tangalooma
Station, Moreton Island (Q.), Whale
Industries took last term’s unchanged
600-whale quota in 62 days, or two days
less than it needed to complete the same
job in the 1956 term.
The whales were taken while in
particularly good condition, and the
resulting increase in the whale-oil yield
more than offset a slip of £1 stg. (to
£B7 stg. c.i.f., U.K. or Continental port)
in the average price received per ton of
oil.
Registered in June, 1951, Whale
Industries commenced operations with its
present paid capital of £535,000, offering
2,000,000 ss. ords. to the public at par,
and exchanging another 140,000 ords. for
the share-capital (totalling £3500) of three
pty. cos. None of these cos. —Whale
Products Pty., Farm Margarine Pty. and
Hi-Protein Pty. —had Commenced produc-
tion at that time.
Breaking the ice with a 6 p.c. div. in
1952, the co. lifted the rate to 10 p.c.
in the following year and to 14 p.c. in
1954, the current 20 p.c. rate being
adopted in 1955.
One of three whale-chasers was
replaced by a larger and more modern
unit last term, the cost of bringing the
vessel from Norway being charged
against earnings, which also had to bear
the difference between the cost- and
sale-prices of the original chaser. (A
profit was made on the sale, but the
depreciation provided for on the chaser
was retained in the accounts.)
In addition to contributing to the higher
oil-yield, the quality of last season’s
catch and the installation of additional
processing-plant enabled a higher pro-
duction of whale-meal and dried solubles
(fertiliser), net earnings advancing by
£3849 to £147,115 after covering the
charges mentioned above':
Parent and Suiisidiaries.
To Re-
Oct. Profit. Dividends serves. Deficit.*
31, £ £ £ - £
Premium paid for subsidiaries’ shares 31,500
Preliminary and establishment exes.,
etc., £45,062 76,562
1952 .. 69,431 6 p.c. = 32,100 37,331 39,231
Reserves.*
1953 ..105,722 10 „ „ 53,500 52,222 12,991
1954 ..152,805 14 „ „ 74,900 77,905 90,896
1955 ..188,434 20 „ ~107,000 81,434 172,330
Sept.,
1956 f. .143,266 20 „ ~107,000 36,266 208,596
1957 ..147,115 20 „ ~107,000 40,115 248,711
* After deducting intangibles, £31,500 at 30/9/’57.
f 11 months only.
Before arriving at the higher profit the
board set aside £117,000 (up £37,000) for


HOTEL INTERNATIONAL Ltd.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1938 of the State of Victoria onr the Ist day of November, 1956)
NOMINAL CAPITAL £450,000
Divided into 900,000 shares of 10/- each. Present issue 523,550 shares of 10/- each at par out of
which 76,450 shares fully paid have been allotted and 83,550 are reserved for allotment to the
directors and their associates.
523,550 Issued at Par ORDINARY 10/- SHARES
Application lists, which opened at 10 a.m. on 14th January, 1958, will remain open until 5 p.m. on the
25th February, 1958, but the Directors reserve the right to close the lists at any earlier time without prior
notice. The minimum number of shares that may be applied for is 100. Any application for a number in
excess of 100 shares must be in multiples of 100.
PURPOSE OF THE ISSUE
The present share issue is being: made to enable the Company to finance the erection and operation
of an hotel on a site at Airport West, adjoining- the Melbourne Airport at Essendon, Victoria.
DIRECTORS
Chairman—FßANClS PETER WILLIAMS, L.L.8., Park Street, Royal Park, Solicitor.
Managing Director —Hon. PATRICK LESLIE COLEMAN, C.8.E., 8 Studley Avenue, Kew, Company Secretary.
Director—JAMES ALEXANDER O’CONNOR, 48 Uplands Road, Strathmore.
Director —Cr. RUDOLF CLUNES REID, 5 Leslie Road, Essendon.
The minimum amount which in the opinion of the Directors must be raised by 'the issue of the Ordinary
shares offered by this Prospectus is £200,000. This amount is required to be provided in respect of. each
of the following matters: —
(i) The purchase price of any property purchased which is to be defrayed in whole or in part out of the
proceeds of the issue Nil
(ii) Preliminary expenses payable by the Company and any commission or brokerage or both so payable
to any person in consideration of his agreeing to subscribe for or of his procuring or agreeing to procure
subscriptions for any shares in the Company are estimated to amount to £7,500
(iii) The repayment of any moneys borrowed by the Company in respect to the foregoing matters .. £3,675
(iv) Working Capital £188,825
£200,000
(b) No amounts are to be provided in respect of the matters aforesaid otherwise than out of the proceeds of the issue.
BANKERS FOR THE COMPANY
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, 368 Collins Street, Melbourne.
COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA, 367 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOLICITORS
M. MORNANE, 93 Queen Street, Melbourne.
AUDITOR
R. C. D. WARNE-SMITH, Chartered Accountant (Aust.), 44 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE
JOHN FRANCIS RADCLIFFE, A.A.S.A., 95, Queen Street, Melbourne.
BROKER TO THE ISSUE
LEMUEL J. CALLAWAY (member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne), 423 Chancery Lane, Melbourne.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY
The twelve-acre site purchased by the Company is situated 9 miles from the Melbourne G.P.O.
The hotel is to be of modern design with first class accommodation, dining room, bar, reception
and conference facilities. A conditional victualler’s licence has been granted to the company
by the Victorian Licensing Court and the necessary approvals have been obtained from the Shire
of Keilor, from the Melbourne Metropolitan Board of Works and from the Town Planning Board.
As a secondary object it is proposed to develop land adjacent to the hotel as a drive-in shopping
centre with a supermarket. The cost of the hotel project including land for both the hotel and
shopping, is estimated to foe £300,000, and it is expected that the hotel will foe in operation by the
end of 1958.
HOTEL INTERNATIONAL LTD.
Copies of the full prospectus of which this advertisement is an abridgment and application forms
may be obtained from members of the stock exchanges and the Company Secretary.
Applications for shares will be received only on one of-the forms of application referred to and
attached to a printed copy of the prospectus.
The requirements of Section 35 (1) to (6) of the Companies Act 1938, have not been fully complied
with iin this advertisement of the prospectus.
taxation and repeated the
previous term’s £70,000 pro-
vision for depreciation and
£25,000 provision for deferred
maintenance. The earnings
equalled a return of 27.5 p.c.
on share-capital, as against
26.7, 35.2, 28.6 and 19.8 p.c.
back to 1953.
In association with the long-
established beach-miner, Z. R.
Holdings, Ltd., the co. formed
Tangalooma Minerals Pty. in
1956 to extract rutile, zircon,
etc., from beach-sands on
Moreton Island. The project
has been financed mainly by
advances from the two cos.,
Whale Industries’ contribution,
last term, amounting to
£138,250. Some long-term
contracts are held for the
supply of heavy minerals, at
1956 prices, and repayment of
advances is expected to
commence shortly.
Although the amount tied-
up in book-debts has trebled
over the past two years, finances
appear to be particularly
comfortable:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £535,000 £535,000
Surplus .. 240,096 280,211
Provision for de-.
ferred mainten-
ance, etc. .. 25,000 50,000
Creditors '.. 12.442 29,615
Tax provision .. 129,979 151,791
Dividends .. 107,000 107,000
£1,049,517 £1,153,617
Plant, build-1
ings, etc. [ 474,604 424,227
Ships . . J
Shares, etc., sub-
sid 8,500 146,750
Stock . . .. 22,068 25,129
Debtors .. .. 364.601 409,184
Cash .. .. 148,244 116,827
Intangibles ~, 31,500 31,500
£1,049,517 £1,153,617
A generous provision for depre-
ciation is deducted from the
cost-price of fixed assets to give
the figure shown in the
accounts.
Prospects for the current term
(catching operations begin in
June) depend largely on the
movement in whale-oil prices.
These prices are expected to
be lower than those obtained
last year, but the fall should
be moderate when compared
with the violent fluctuations
which occurred in the early
post-war years and on the pre-
war market. Whale-meal, etc.,
should find a ready market
locally (the oil goes to England
and Europe).
The extent of the drop in oil-
prices and any consequent effect
on the div.-rate remain matters
for conjecture, but, playing safe
(as well as having lost some
enthusiasm in respect of the
rutile venture), buyers have
lowered their bids for the co.’s
f.-p. ss. ords. from 165., last
October, to 13s. 6d. for a yield
of £7 Bs. 2d. p.c. from a 20
p.c. div. or £5 1 Is. Id. p.c. from
a 15 p.c. distribution. Con-
solidated accounts show a net
tangible cover of 7s. 4d. a
share.
W. T. Coggins Holdings
"VX/TTH the gap resulting from
” last term’s drastic paring-
down of automotive import-
allocations readily filled by
the Holden range, Sydney car-
dealer W. T. Coggins’ turn-
over again edged forward,
despite the reduced availability
of Bedford commercial vehicles.
However, the higher sales
entailed stiffer promotional
expenditure, and the increase
recorded in net profit, £3482,
was wholly due to the reduction
in co.-tax rates.
A spectacular performer,
the present co. acquired public
status in 1954 with a paid-up
capital of £,6om the pubhc-s
interest being £48,000. The
wholly-owned operating sub-
sidiary, W. T. Coggins Pty.,
Ltd., which has been dispensing
Bedford vehicles and spares
sinpp tQ7< hn-ripfit
since tyjD, reaped tne oenent
of a close association With
G.M.-H. when in 1948 it was
, . , c r •
elected as one or tour major
Holden distributors for the
Sydney area.
Trading profit for the year
ended July 31 last was up
£2629 to a record £141,945,
and, after provisions had been
set aside for depreciation on
plant and vehicles (£9654),
directors’ fees (£1800) and taxa-
tion (£49,350), net earnings of
£81,1.41 were claimed, from
which a meagre £16,000 was
tc ! shareholders as a
10 p.c. div, the balance swelling
ca pital • -
Consolidated Figures.
J]y > Pr{t SJS- R r e ; es .
£ £ & £
Share-issue expenses, £2092 125,521
, 65>>76 341 10 = 14,406 00,941 186,462
Unexplained addition, £3332 189,794
’56 77,659 10 = le 000 ei,659 251,453
Unexpld reduction, £10,4 1 6 240,9/9
j 57..8i,i4i 10 = 16,000 65,i4i 306,118
Detracting somewhat from
the y® ar s showing was a
£10,476 reduction in reserves,
unexplained in the not-over-
informative annual report,
But finances are sound
beyond comment, witn floating


■H
■-jt-
Ml
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W. N
. Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tdbles, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO IRENE AGNES SCOTT (also known
as EILEEN AGNES SCOTT).—TAKE
NOTICE that KEITH DUDLEY SCOTT
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3924 of 1956 on the grounds of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards and is asking
for the exercise of the Court’s dis-
cretion under 19 (2a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-1954 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street, Sydney by
the 28th day of March 1958 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from NUGENT WALLMAN & CO.,
Solicitors, 18-20 Martin Place, Sydney-
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
assets more than double current
liabilities:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957.
'Paid capital .. £160,000 £160,000
Reserves .. •. 251,453 306,118
Mortgage .. .. 80,000 76,000
Creditors, unearned
income . .. 109,484 87,151
Tax provision .. 53,034 51,407
Final dividend .. 8,000 8,000
£661,971 £688,676
Land and buildings 246,541 276,895
Plant, vehicles, etc. 56,125 69,283
Stocks .. .. 139,670 113,625
Debtors, prepayments,
cash ..- .. 93,794 102,008
Trading-bank ~< 125,841 126,865
£661,971 £688,676
The at -or - below - cost in -
ventory figure fell by £26,045
to £113,625, partially as a result
of the drain On imported stocks.
Extensions to the Mascot
service division were primarily
responsible for the increase of
£30,354 in the cost-or-valuation
book-value of freeholds, now
£276,625 ; part of this item was
valued at £89,500 when the
holding-co. was formed.
Better placed than most auto.-
dealers, with two excellent sell-
ing lines, W. T. Coggins can
show a high and increasing
return on capital—so. 7 p.c.,
48.5 p.c. and 41.9 p.c. back to
1955 —although the return on
shareholders’ funds has shown
a decline. This, together with
the prospects of capital accre-
tion and the trading benefits
expected to accrue from the
easing of import-controls, has
kept would-be investors content
with a yield of 3.8 p.c. from the
13s. 3d. currently asked for the
scrip. Net cover is visibly
14s. 6d. a share.
Monbulk Preserves, Ltd.
A RECENT addition to Stock
Exchange lists, Monbulk
Preserves, Ltd. (formerly
Camm’s Jams Pty.) obtained
public status in April, 1957, the
original shareholders offering
200,000 ss. ords. to the public
at ss. 3d. later that year.
Primarily a jam-manufac-
turer, Monbulk Preserves
controls a business originally
established in 1912. Specialis-
ing in berry-fruit and apple
products (although the range
of fruits has been widened over
the past few years), the co.
supplies local and export
markets from canneries at
Monbulk (about 30 miles from
Melbourne) and Hobart. The
output is marketed under the
well-known “Monbulk” brand.
Paid capital, £230,000, is all
in f.-p. ss. ords.
Turnover (undisclosed)
showed a “healthy increase”
last term (to September 30), net
earnings comparing favorably
with estimates given last year
in the memorandum of sale.
The 10 p.c. div., forecast in the
memorandum, was well covered.
Calculated after providing
£43,143 for taxation, £14,056
for depreciation and £8194 for
long-service leave and doubt-
ful debts, the £54,076 net
profit was equal to 23.5 p.c. of
share-capital as it stood at the
end of the term. The div. took
£23,000 and preliminary
expenses £6006, leaving £25,070
for reserves, which now total
£87,749. Intangibles figure in
the accounts at £29,654.
Freeholds (at valuation) and
plant, etc. (at cost, less depre-
ciation) had a book-value of
£320,405 at the end of the
term, current assets (mainly
stock) exceeding current
liabilities by £145,191 at the
same date. Deferred liabilities
(loan accounts, mortgage and
deposits) are shown at £178,863.
According to the board, sales
have shown an “improved up-
ward trend” in recent months,
although competition in export
markets is keen, and, judging
by last term’s performance, the
10 p.c. div.-rate seems well
within the co.’s earning-power.
However, as in all concerns
of this nature, management has
to cope with unpredictable
seasonal conditions as well as
normal trading difficulties. _
Supported by net tangible
assets of 6s. 3d. the scrip at
7s. Id. would return £7 Is. 2d.
p.c. from a 10 p.c. div.
Norseman Gold Mines, N.L.
A LONG with other mining
cos. producing pyrites,
Norseman Gold Mines, N.L.,
has, as yet, received little
benefit from the Federal
Government’s efforts to
encourage the use of indigenous
sulphur-bearing materials.
Since production of pyrites
Was put on a profitable basis
in 1947, this Westralian mine
has won satisfactory profits,
but production is well below
capacity, and there was a
further decline in both the
quantity and value of output
last term.
During the year (to October
31) the heavy-media separation
plant handled 119,228 tons (up
2288 tons) of ore averaging
23.1 p.c. sulphur, as against
24.1 p.c. in the previous year.
The fall in grade was the result
of the inclusion of a quantity of
low-value development ore.
The sulphur content of the
88,080 tons (down 1413 tons)
treated dropped by 794 tons
to 21,041 tons:
Total
Year. Sulphur
Oct. Content, Average
31, Tons. Proceeds. Per Ton.
1953 .. 25,569 624,852 24.44
1954 .. 24,999 487,430 19.50
1955 ..' 21,983 401,328 18.25
1956 .. 21,835 374,096 17.13
1957 ... 21,041 332,667 15.81
Although wage-rates increased
during the term, working-costs
were reduced by Is. 7d. a ton
to 445. ja ton (excluding develop-
ment-work). The co. has
achieved a high degree of tech-
nical efficiency, and, with the
aid of extensive mechanisation,
has reduced ore-extraction
costs from 365. 6d. to 17s. lOd.
a ton over the past three years.
These savings have enabled
substantial price - reductions,
and are reflected by the fall in
the average price received per
ton (of contained sulphur) over
the past four years.
Unfortunately for the co., the
reductions appear to have had
little effect on the demand for
pyrites.
Total income last term
slipped by £41,432 to £337,912,
but lower working-costs and
smaller provisions for taxation
(down £6300 at £13,700) and
depreciation (down £22,647 at
£12,531) limited the drop in net
earnings to £4370:
Year.
Oct. P.c. on
31, Profit. Capital. Dividend.
1953. . £62,049 33.1 20 p.c. = £37,500
1954.. 47,098 25.1 20 „ = 37,500
1955.. 49,820 26.5 20 „ = 37,500
1956.. 49,281 26.2 2'o „ = 37,500
1957.. 44,911 23.9 20 „ = 37,500
Unchanged at 20 p.c., the div.,
payable next month, will
require £37,500 of the £44,911
profit. A quarter of the div.
will come from tax-exempt
income.
Ore reserves, at 2,099,000
tons (estimated to average not
less than 25 p.c. sulphur), will
take some time to work through
at the present rate of through-
put and with another 1,571,000
tons of probable it
was not considered necessary to
prove additional ore. Gold-
prospecting is continuing south-
west of the Mararoa reef.
Increasing to-300,000 its hold-
ing of f.-p. 10s. vendor shares
in Ravensthorpe Copper Mines,
N.L., the co. bought 100,000
shares from Uranium Mines,
N.L., for £17,500, prior to
that co.’s merger with United
Uranium, N.L. No value is
given in the accounts to the
200,000 Ravensthorpe shares
originally held.
When the books closed,
current assets and investments
totalled £212,269 (including
£71,442 in stores) against
liabilities (including the pro-
posed div.) of £93,217.
The Federal Government has
requested the Tariff Board to
determine the scale of bounty-
payments (to acid-manufac-
turers using pyrites, etc.) neces-
sary to make the Sulphuric Acid
Bounty Act effective. In the
meantime the co. must look to
investments or its gold-pros-
pecting venture for any worth-
while improvement in earnings.
Paid capital is £187,500, the
f.-p. ss. shares bringing around
Bs. 9d. cum div. Books close
on February 7.


One of my last pictures of
Long Mac was the day he
entered the Broome hospital
when his health began to fail
about two years ago. Mac, still
unbent, with the “sweat-rag,”
that legacy of his Island days,
hanging as always from his
back-pocket, followed Paddy’s
son, carrying his valise and
holding open the gate. Then
came Paddy with an outsize
stretcher, since the hospital-
beds were not long enough to
accommodate Mac’s reputed
6ft. siin. Fussing hospital-
attendants were swept aside and
it was Paddy who settled his
“old man” in and waited at the
door to attend his needs.
“I miss him every day,”
Paddy said when, a few months
after his death in the Royal
Perth Hospital, Long Mac’s
ashes were returned to Broome.
“I just go on missing that old
man. They don’t come like that
no more.”
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
TOURING the 15 months that
began with the Suez affair,
the course and performance of
the British economy proved to
be amazingly consistent and
independent despite all the
challenges of this extremely
trouble-laden period.
After Nasser’s coup, oil-
supplies became difficult, and
such as could be obtained had
to be paid for in dollars. The
Government was severely
shaken, both by the turn of
events and by resignations,
including that of the Prime
Minister. Bank-rate moved,
confidently downwards by half
per cent, in February, only to
be desperately raised two per
cent, in September, following
the mounting lack of foreign
confidence in the pound. There
was an outbreak of industrial
unrest, culminating in the worst
strikes for 30 years. And there
was an intensified credit-
squeeze. -
Yet industry appeared to
plod sweetly along. Produc-
tion-figures kept steady and
full employment was hardly
disturbed.
What of 1958? Will this
astonishing resilience persist?
Since the present time is
particularly testing and uncer-
tain (made the more so by the
sensational and unfortuitous
lift between the Treasury
Ministers and the rest of the
Cabinet) we can only wait on
events, noting especially foreign
appraisal of the pound.
But it is encouraging to learn
that, in the opinion of some
economists, the 19-year-long
period of more-or-less continu-
ous inflation may be coming to
an unlamented, if belated, end.
One writer in the “Financial
Times” affirms that the
inflationary pressure is already
considerably reduced, and that,
if it were not for an abnormal
degree of stock-replenishment,
the volume of saving would be
“sufficient to finance a favor-
able balance-of-payments of
£4OO million a year.”
Much depends, of course, on
two criteria wage-claims at
home, and the course of the
recession in America. But the
situation in the trade-unions is
more hopeful than was
expected. The militants are
quiescent for the time being.
This may seem odd and
mysterious, especially as now is
the time of year when they are
normally in full and demonstra-
tive voice. Realising that their
bargaining-power is low just
now, that public opinion is
sensitive and inflamed and that
reference to arbitration should
result in some degree of wage-
increases, they consider it
prudent to lie low and let the
moderates take the
responsibility.
What is certain is that the
militants have not seen the
pure white light of conversion.
For they have boycotted the
meeting between the T.U.C.
“Would you Welcome a suggestion , Butch ?”
economic committee and the
“Three Wise Men” (Lord
Cohen’s Council on Prices,
Productivity and Incomes). No
more than six of the 13
members attended and then
only after lengthy argument.
The trade-union attitude
towards the council is one of
disapproval, deep suspicion and
bitter animosity—they consider
that a boycott will reduce its
authority and dampen its
prestige.
As to the wider outlook for
the year in industry, most
businessmen and industrialists
are cautious. Profit-margins
are tending to shrink, and
export-markets are becoming
more difficult. Against this, the
possibility of a European Free
Trade Area is a reason for
excitement and hope in many
industries. Here the pending
negotiations are crucial, for it
it true to say that the United
Kingdom needs the Area more
than, perhaps, the Area needs
the United Kingdom.
Top to Bottom
The engaging of a music-hall
comedian to play in Shakspeare
is a comparatively recent
innovation. For this interesting
departure from custom we are
indebted to an Australian
(whose father, incidentally, was
a regular Bulletin contributor
in its early years).
Twenty-three years ago,
Sydney Carroll, actor, author,
editor, dramatic critic and
(then) theatre-manager, invited
George Robey to play Falstaff
in “Henry IV, Part I.” Robey
was a “natural.” So, too, was
Jay Laurier, who joined the
Old Vic Company in 1937 to
play Pompey in “Measure for
Measure” and who con-
solidated his success by after-
wards appearing in all the main
Shakspearian comic roles..
Happily, these past experi-
ments have not been forgotten,
the Old Vic having cast Frankie
Howerd as Bottom in its
current sumptuous production
of “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream.” If Howerd is no
“natural” (he is much too
quick-witted for Bottom —more
at home at the street-corner
than at the hand-loom) his
inclusion is commendable and
worth while.
There is a wide disparity
between playing for laughs
(and oneself) on the variety
stage and the corporate
discipline of classical repertory,
where scene-pinching is the
deadliest of all. sins. One feels
that, although given plenty of
stage, he is so anxious not to
steal another’s thunder as to be
deliberately self-effacing. His
fellow rude-mechanicals are
fully extended and richer by
far: Paul Daneman’s dodder-
ing Quince is deliciously
mellow, Daniel Thorndike’s
Starveling quite overripe and
Ronald Fraser’s Flute juicy and
adenoidal. But Howerd, while
a little unsure in gesture, times
bis lines well, makes an uproari-
ous ass and dominates the
supremely hilarious play-scene.
Michael BenthaH’s produc-
tion is on the grand scale and
well pointed, even to devices
not to be found in the text. The
decor is blue-green and, unfor-
tunately, cold as any glacier.
The best performance is the
Helena of Coral Browne, a
rarely gifted actress who, with-
out apparent effort, makes a
part appear to derive from the
soul rather than from the flesh.
Joyce Redman’s Titania
belongs too much to this mortal
world and is an unlikely con-
sort for Derek Godfrey’s beet-
ling, demonic Oberon. Keith
Taylor’s satyr - like Puck,
though dynamic, lacks humor,
echoing the coolness of the
decor.
Gordon Jacob has been
called upon to re-orchestrate
snatches of Mendelssohn’s
music a commission as
unsatisfying as it was
unnecessary.


MALAYA REMEMBERED
By "EK DUM"
7. Singapore: Its Part in Victory
IT is 15 years this month
since the Australian and
British and Indian troops
were going through their
travail in Malaya, against a
background of shouting, advice
and abuse by the yellow press.
The gallant fight of Galleghan’s
30th Battalion in the Gemas
ambush went on record.
On January 21, 1942, Charles
Anderson’s heroic column of
Australians were fighting for
their lives on the Muar, and the
British Loyals were preparing
for their attack on Parit Sulong.
In fact, the Battle of the
Muar, what General Percival
called “one of the epics of our
campaign,” was reaching its un-
happy climax after the Japanese
Imperial Guards, a solid, crack
division backed by full support
of tanks and aircraft, had been
held up for a week, the Segamat
force thereby saved from
being surrounded and wiped-
out, and Charles Anderson him-
self had qualified for a Vic-
toria Cross —“a fitting tribute
both to his own prowess and
to the valor of his men.”
Now, 15 years later, most
who are left of the Eighth
Division and of the British
division are middle-aged or
elderly men. And they are
fighting their battles over again,
almost with the same fierceness
as in the Malaya campaign, as
their memories are refreshed in
the month of anniversary by
the Australian and British
volumes of the official war
histories dealing with the
campaigns in which Singapore
fell. These were issued late in
1957, and the British one is not
yet generally available.
The British Volume
'T'HE British volume does not
embrace so wide a field as
the Australian, and it differs
from it in being a true military
history, written by a skilled
officer, Major-General S.
Woodburn Kirby, C. 8.,
C.M.G., M.C., with the help
of a panel which includes a
Naval captain, two specialist
colonels and an air-vice-
marshal.
This group is obviously
closely trained in the prepara-
tion of military appreciations.
Their volume is the first of a
series on the war against Japan
and deals specifically with the
loss of Singapore, which, of
course, involves an overall
sketch of the Far Eastern
policy from the close of World
War I to 1939 ; an essay on the
effect of the European war on
Far Eastern Defence Policy and
the drift towards war —the
intensively told story of the
months of decision between
August-December, 1941.
The Japanese strategic plans
are treated individually, and
each stage of the progress of
the war southwards from the
opening moves, the capture of
Hong Kong and then the
fighting which culminated in the
loss of Singapore and the East
Indies, is dealt with in due
order.
All these things are treated
concisely, clearly and, for the
most part, our own com-
manders admit, accurately, even
if events are not always seen in
the same perspective as they
themselves might have seen
them.
There is no attempt at the
graphic and the picturesque.
There is no obscuring detail.
The book is a plain, matter-of-
fact, orderly recital of what
indubitably took place pre-
sented with the greatest possible
economy in writing, with
generosity towards both Allies
and enemy without
recrimination and with readi-
ness to admit weaknesses and
failures on the British side;
without excuses. It lays the
foundation fairly and skilfully
so that the tactical can be
reasonably related to the
strategical plan.
It is a history to which the
student can turn in the future
for what is reliable and which
he can approach in orderly and
uniform fashion as to each
operation.
Military Method
APPROACH is always
through a map—a good
map—with plenty of contrast
for quick consultation, with
names and elevations clearly
marked and contoured. Where
the ground or cover exhibits
special difficulties it is not only
presented in map-form and
described clearly with due
attention to scale and distances,
but supplemented by excellent
aerial photographs, with names
dubbed-in. Thus the reader
always has his stage before
him, whether it embraces the
whole Far East or a country,
a battlefield or a feature.
Then he is told the essentials
in reasonable order—what the
opposing forces and resources
were, the command, its plans
and often how they evolved;
the clash of opposing opera-
tions, how they succeeded or
failed; how events diverged
from plan; why and what
steps were taken to mend
failure or exploit unexpected
success ; where judgment failed;
where it succeeded.
The careful marking of dis-
positions makes all this easier
to follow. The reader knows
where he is all along—subject,
of course, to normal weak-
nesses and blind spots in the
witnesses’ and historians’ minds
and points of view.
The first four chapters deal-
ing with the whole period
before 1941-42 are completely
and adequately embraced in less
than 100 pages, and the student
winds-up his reading of them,
based on the excellent maps,
with a two-page summary of
the three phases of the Japanese
drive which was to fan-out over
he area from the oilfields
of South Burma to Timor,
and Amboina to the Philippines
and Islands beyond, to Guam
and the Gilberts. Follows a
two-page table of the distribu-
tion of the Japanese forces at
the outbreak of war.
The Australian Volume
TTIE method pursued by the
British has enormous
advantages over the method of
The Japanese Thrust, the Aus-
tralian comparable war-volume,
which is written by a
Commonwealth publicity man,
Lionel Wigmore, who proceeds
by the civilian reporter’s
method.
His background can be
found elsewhere, except the
faultfinding with Allies.
His relation of political
factors is so imperfect as to
give the volume a flavor which
does not run true to circum-
stance. There is a mass of un-
essential biography and nota-
tion which means little. The
maps are not very useful, as a
rule, and are sparse, and the
narrative is sometimes clogged
with unessentials among which
the reader has to hy.nt the vital
facts.
The accounts of engagements
and operations are often
rendered nebulous by an
anxiety that everybody who has
a name connected with them
shall be mentioned. N
The balance as between
engagements in Malaya seems
to have been determined not
upon the basis of what was
done and its importance so
much as on whether a more
graphic and copious recorder
(or recorders) of events were
present at one operation than
another ; whether, in fact, one
force was able or in a position,
through force of circumstances,
to tell a better tale than the
other.
True Perspective
'T'HE Australian volume
gives little idea of the
vast scale and ultimate
fate of the Japanese
thrust. It gives less idea of the
position of world defence at
the stage when the Japanese
moved southwards. Therefore
it does not enable the reader to
use the beginnings of the war
to visualise the stupendous feat
achieved by the Pacific Allies,
from scratch, of inflicting defeat
on a nation which had geared
itself to titanic aggression,
armed for that aggression,
prepared and planned, geo-
graphically and logistically and
in equipment, as it thought to
the last button, and launched
it over a tremendous area with
a considerable success in initial
surprise.
The very proportion of the
Australian history is hopelessly
out of plumb, seeing that it is
not merely a sectional volume
like the British.
The author, in his first lines,
refers to the “heavy task of
recording a series of reverses
culminating in one of the
greatest diasters suffered by
British and Allied arms.”
In fact, its effects were
infinitely less than half-a-dozen
other disasters, and were
scarcely to be measured against
the results of the debacle in
France in 1940.
Nothing that happened in the
early South Pacific phase
was to be compared to the
titanic preliminary defeats
which Russia was experiencing
at the same time and which
cost the Soviet Union —and its.
Allies—4,ooo,ooo men.
The Australian volume
gives no proper picture to
explain the failure to have


resources on the spot, and why
the priorities were centred else-
where.
The effects are not completely
clear of the fact that Britain was
still fighting for its life on its
own sea-fringes; its Air Force
down to bare necessities and
exhausted from the struggle of
the Battle of Britain ; that the
submarine struggle was at its
height; that the overall
Command was caught on the
hop with a new Chief of the
General Staff only a few days
in office, and with aid for
Russia of every type a first
priority—since the Russians
were threatened with defeat and
India,' therefore, with attack
from both sides and the Middle
Eastern airfields with imminent
capture.
It is not clear how little help
the Australian Government was
in this - situation, how much
odd-man-out it was, how many
shocks it must have given the
Chief-of-Staffs Committee as
it demanded 25 divisions to
defend Australia —which would
have meant at the time taking
every trained and ready
division on the Allied side
forthwith to Australia with
every ton of shipping, every bit _
of air-cover and getting them
here, if they were to be of any
use, within a matter of weeks.
But on the other hand there
is nothing to make vivid the
vast inspiring recovery from the
depths.
The deeds of Australians in
battle in Malaya are larded-
over with a sort of advertising-
agency boastfulness, and their
sufferings, the normal sufferings
of a lost campaign, painted in a
way to set them apart from
other men. But at the same time
this robs the reader of con-
fidence in the reporting and
masks the fact that the real
continuing effect of the
Malayan battle was not to be
read of in terms of catastrophe
or in 132 pages of the descrip-
tion of the sufferings of Aus-
tralian p.-0.-w. in prison-camps,
but in the moral effects
produced in the Japanese of the
resistance of a handful of
highly trained and experienced
A.I.F. officers and men
reinforced by a few hundred
novices who literally scarcely
as yet knew how to fire a rifle.
The Australians in Malaya
established a moral superiority
over the Japanese in battle
which they never lost and
which had its salutary effects
to the end of the war.
Japanese Strength
ADVANCE by the
Japanese was carried
out with forces which
seemed at the time to readers
inured to the imaginative
statistics of daily newspapers as
puny—the kind of statistics
supplied by a famous and inter-
nationally known correspond-
ent, which in 1939 credited the
French with having 500,000
fully-armed and -trained men
straining at the leash in the
Middle East against the day
when Hitler should dare to
project his effort against the
Persian oilfields and Suez.
Still, the Japanese had
51 divisions—twice as many as
the U.K. and British Common-
wealth had armed and ready
throughout the world. They had
the full sweep of their
mercantile marine and gigantic
dockyard building accommoda-
tion. They had an immense
labor-force and huge industrial
on the doorstep of the
campaign area.
They had as many front-line
aircraft as Germany at the
beginning of the war.
ORIENTAL APOLOGUE
[From The Bulletin, September 12, 1945]
Their chief adversary, the
United States, was not even
ready to become geared for
war, and its Pacific Fleet had
been shattered.
True, with Russia possibly
an opponent, only 11 Japanese
divisions could be used for the
southern drive, and only 700 of
the front-line Army aircraft,
backed by another 480 land-
based craft. But these repre-
sented a force almost half
that available immediately for
all purposes throughout the
whole world to the whole of
the Western Allies. Moreover,
the Japanese force was largely
battle-seasoned, trained to the
minute, determined and
equipped to a well-planned
task.
In emergency all the Japanese
reserves along the Russian-
Siberian borders and at home
and in China could have been
drawn on, and were in the end
drawn on, to the point of
attrition.
The essential in true summa-
tion of the war is not the Aus-
tralian history’s approach of
disaster but the glorious cer-
tainty with which the West rose
from the depths of primary
(iefeat and capture of every
objective which the Japanese
had aimed at in their first three
phases.
At the time of Singapore’s
fall it was impossible to fend-
off from Australia even the few
aircraft that pounded Darwin.
The outcome of the Japanese
attack, the definitive result, was
in the fact that within three
and a half years the same
supreme leaders who were
chided for the loss of Singapore
and Burma and the Philippines
were dictating terms to a burnt-
out Japan over the smoulder-
ing rubbish-heaps of her cities.
The Australians in Malaya
knew the glory of a sacrifice
which served notice on the
Japanese that, no matter what
the odds, the British-speaking
forces would fight tooth-and-
ciaw as they went down to
death and torture, and that no
initial defeat, not even Pearl
Harbor or the first ruin of air-
power in the Philippines, or
what the Australian volume so
sorrowfully calls “a series of
reverses culminating in one of
the greatest disasters suffered
by British and Allied arms”
would see them vanquished.
The Japanese Upset
r\NE of the most striking
facts, indeed, is the denoue-
ment to the fall of Singapore
and the Japanese advance into
Burma.
Though the Japanese Army’s
conquest of Malaya ran almost
to the timetable of a hundred
days which its staff had planned
for, the Malayan fighting
helped, by the resistance of the
Australians in particular, to
upset plans and to call for
unexpected Japanese
reorganisation just as the tail-
end resistance of British and
Australians elsewhere helped to
achieve the same end.
Swift as it had been intended
to be, the aggressors’ drive was
not swift enough to prevent the
British in particular from
gaining their main objective in
a desperate situation of rallying
backstop Naval and air forces
to hold the advance before it
reached India or prevent the
Japanese from completing a
strong cordon or wall which
they planned as the first section
of their world war a
wall to include all British,
American, Dutch and other
{Continued on page 49)


The Man on
the Handkerchief
By A. B. SHERLOCK
(8)
[Taken to tlie U.S. from Sydney,
former “king of The Rocks’ push”
Griffo has beaten or fought draws
With the world’s best, but his
hectic saloon “training” has beaten
him at last; he runs amuck and
is sent to an asylum.]
IN the succeeding months
nothing was heard of him
until, in early August, a
report appeared in the
Chicago press that he was
dying:
Physicians at the institution say
he can hardly live for more than a
couple of weeks at the outside, as
he has recently suffered a general
physical breakdown and has
become violently insane.
At this stage his old colleague
George Dawson to<3k a hand.
Dawson was an Australian
import of the respectable kind.
At this time he was instructor
at the Chicago Atheltic Asso-
ciation, known amongst the
members as “Professor”
Dawson.
More widely, he shared with
Corbett the rank of “Gentle-
man” —he was “Gentleman
George” to Corbett’s “Gentle-
man Jim.” Not without diffi-
culty, and then only because
they were fellow-Australians
and not morbid snoopers, he
and Billy Miller, a Sydney vet.,
were granted access to Griffo in
the Dunning Asylum’
“I’ll never forget the sight,”
Miller told the papers.
“Changed almost beyond
recognition, the unfortunate
fellow looked the wild beast
report said he was. His hands
were fastened by the wrists to a
belt passed round the waist, so
that he could not use them ;
his frame was terribly emaci-
ated ; he wore a wild, haggard,
vacant expression.... The poor
chap glared at us through the
bars of his cell with an un-
natural fire in his eyes.”
“Do you know me?” Miller
asked him. Griffo looked hard
and long, but shook his head.
The keeper indicated
Dawson. “Do you know this
man?’’
A glimmer of understanding
shot across Griffo’s face, and
for a moment he looked some-
thing like his former self.
“Dat’s Dawson! ” he ex-
claimed.
This visit was a blood-trans-
fusion. Loneliness and restraint
were enough to have nudged
anyone over the borderline,
sane or not quite sane to begin
with. But, as Dawson soon
heard, each day after the visit
saw Griffo’s grip returning. He
was demanding that Dawson
get him out. Dawson called to
talk it over, and found a
manifest improvement.
John Moffat, a New York
sportsman, saw' Griffo soon
afterwards, and gave an
encouraging account: “He was
in company of an attendant
and quietly strolling along. I
spoke to him and he recog-
nised me at once. He seems
fairly rational and he is pretty
well posted on what is going
on in pugilistic circles.... He
is not under restraint at present
.... The doctors at the asylum
think there is every chance for
his speedy recovery.”
He was discharged about the
beginning of November. A
carriage arrived with Dawson,
Bob Fitzsimmons and another
(Miller, most likely) and took
him away.
Dawson was riot letting
Griffo loose in Chicago if he
could help it, and prudently
packed him off to Carlisle, Pa.,
in the custody of George S.
Connors, trainer of the
Carlisle Indians football-teapi.
Fitzsimmons, an intelligent
layman in many matters,
announced that Griffo had
recovered, and gave his own
diagnosis of the trouble:
“Drink drove him crazy for the
time being. That, and getting
hammered on the head with
policemen’s clubs as bften as
he did I think it was a
fine thing for Dawson to do.”
THE opening of the new
year, 1900, was full of
promise. Griffo was on a diet
of fresh air and exercise—he
and Connors, it was said,
would run or walk 10 and 15
miles every morning and even-
ing—his wind was sound, and
his footwork nimble. His
weight was down to 9st. 91b.
“He looked well,” wrote one
correspondent. “His big
shoulders, barrel-shaped body
and immense chest-develop-
ment gave promise of extra-
ordinary strength. His under-
pinning is thin, but the legs are
fairly corded with a network
of sinews.”
Early in February he met
Jack Lewis, a bustling light-
weight, in a six-rounder which
was the excuse for some wild
betting. One of Lewis’s backers
lost $2500.
Those behind Lewis pinned
their faith to the delightful
superstition that, in the asylum,
Griffo had developed “thinning
of the skull,” and Lewis was
instructed to play the head at
every opportunity.
Two factors undermined this
strategy. The first was that
Lewis found it all but impos-
sible to land a punch on
Griffo’s head. Secondly, when
he did sneak a punch through,
it rebounded as if from teak-
wood. The Australian played
Lewis like a trout, and referee
Siler’s decision was given with-
out hesitation.
A second contest, against
Young Kenny, convinced the
sporting clubs that Griffo still
carried a lot of that indefinable
quality known to sportsmen as
“class.”
Dawson was offered matches
all over the country, nothing
very strenuous, but with
guaranteed purses of $3OO to
$ 1000. The public was
interested in the fighter who
had come back from the
shadows. The circumstances of
his re-entry into the ring were
a first-rate build-up. Engage-
ments were booked for him up
to the end of April. His con-
duct was admirable; he told
everybody that the taste for
liquor had blown clean out of
his system.
Dawson’s idea was that in
another couple of months, if
the improvement continued,
Griffo would be ready to tackle
the gold-medallists.
“He would get $5OOO easily,”
he wrote, “to fight Terrible
Terry McGovern six rounds at
Chicago, and I think he would
be sure to beat him.”
Altogether, the cards were
falling luckily for derelict
left to. perish in the Dunning
Asylum. He was living with
Dawson in the house of a
tycoon named Anderson, and
drawing easy money from the
theatres. Reports were that
Dawson had bookings tied up
for him running into the best
part of $lO,OOO. In racing par-
lance, Griffo had to fall down
to lose.
And fall down he did. One
Sunday “some fool friend”
insisted on Griffo's having a
glass of sherry. In those hard-
drinking times a glass of
sherry was probably regarded
as the equivalent of barley-
water ; but it was enough. The
old fire, smothered for nearly a
year, started up again.
At midnight a cab called to
take Dawson to a tough south-
side saloon, where Griffo was
drunk. Over his protests,
Dawson and Anderson brought
him home, and impounded his
clothes. But the blue ruin was
raging and demon - strong.
Griffo insisted that he would go
down town even if reduced to
his night-shirt, and Dawson
angrily threw his clothes at
him, telling him to get out and
stay out.
Dawson was sadly dis-
appointed. “You would think,”
he wrote, “that he would show
some appreciation, but not so
with Griffo.”
A few mornings later an
appeal reached him from the
breakaway, who was held at
his old address, the Harrison
Street police-station. Talking
{Continued on page 39)


m
ZmStmi
.
x' ?
m
■ \ .
' s- J
news
gggMiii
lllllliipp-
■
A new plan for
key men has recently
been introduced by the
k A.M.P, Society
w mrp*
|YBRfr-tf1530; MELBOOMt«*Hf mi
ISSSBANE FA 19&1* ADEUUDf —1A2371
TOt plan he* romarttablr
advantages in helping you solve yam
INCOME TAX and DEATH DUTY
problem#.
Contact your A.M.P. Representative 6#
telephone your neorest A.M.P. office
for full information.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE* §1 Flff STREET, SYDNEY • GENERAL MANAGER* M. C. BUTTFIELDf
ruW


Report on a Survey
Secondary Education in N.S.W.
WITH the reopening of schools
after the Christmas vacation,
well over 100,000 children will
be 'beginning their secondary
education at the various Government
and private schools throughout Australia.
On past experience about one in every
10 of these will sit for the Leaving
Certificate or its equivalent in five years’
time. Opinion as to the other 90 per cent,
who for various reasons will have been
stamped “education completed” and
passed out into the general community
will vary considerably.
There’s the extreme educationalist who
thinks the education-system has fallen
down on its job if, having-dragged the
youngsters along to the well of learning,
it is unable to make all of them keep
their heads down long enough to drink
their five years’ fill. At the other extreme
is the stern realist who accepts the fact
that the “early-leavers” dropped out as
proof that it was waste of money taking
them to the well in the first place. Both
extremes —and all opinions in between —
are conditioned by the thinkers’ views
on the purpose and functions of
secondary education. In this connection
a recently published report on a survey,
extending over four years, by a com-
mittee of 10 appointed by the N. S. Wales
Government, should be of wide interest.
Early Beginnings
CJURVEYING first the development of
secondary education as a State
responsibility in N.S.W., the committee
found that although several high-schools
had been established in the last two
decades of the 19th century, only those
in Sydney and Maitland remained by
1895. Their deduction is that neithef
the department nor the public was at
that time ready for the concept of general
secondary education.
The early high-schools provided for
“an elite of scholastic ability and
interests rather than of social status,” and
thfe same theory pervaded the Knibbs-
Turner report of 1902, which said:
The ideal aim of secondary and higher
education in a State such as this will, of
course, tend rather towards the establish- -
ment of an aristocracy of intellect and
character than to the maintenance of an
exclusive caste founded upon birth or
wealth-
There is a familiar ring about a section
of the Knibbs-Turner report which com-
plains that the state of preparation of
average students on entering the uni-
versity “leaves much to be desired, and
valuable time is frittered-away and oppor-
tunity wasted by the necessity of
imparting elementary forms of knowledge
which should have been acquired in the
secondary schools.” Half-_a-century later
Sydney University is still making moan
about the same problem, despite the
many changes made in the system.
Peter Board’s Principles
'T'HESE changes began t with the
reorganisation of the system in 1911,
partly as an outcome of the Knibbs-
Turner report, but more through the
influence of Peter Board, Director of
Education. In Board’s view secondary
education should be provided for all
children willing to stay at school, not
merely for those intending to enter a
university. But he warned against “such
a course of instruction as will produce
a drifting of young people into merely
clerical or professional occupations.”
In a young country calling for the
development of its natural resources and
with its manufacturing industries yet in their
infancy, the aim of secondary education
should be to combine the liberal elements
of a curriculum with such studies as will
furnish the student with a body of
knowledge, habits of thought and trend of
interests that have a practical outcome.
From the spirit embodied in Board’s
policy sprang the technical schools,
agricultural schools and the arts and
handicrafts classes of the high-schools,
though the development was by no means
simple or continuous.
' The method of selection for secondary-
schools developed gradually, reaching its
present form in 1943. It combines the
results of primary-school attainments and
intelligence-tests with the overall school-
record of the pupil.
Research by the committee showed that
this system is far from perfect in its
results, but assuming the selection has to
be made at 12 years, it is probably as
good as could be devised. However, the
committee is unable to find any justifica-
tion for deciding a child’s academic
future at that age.
A School Generation
A SURVEY of the “progress of school
generations through departmental
secondary-schools” gives some interest-
ing figures. Taking 1952 as a typical
year and following its first-year students
through to 1956, we find that of every
hundred enrolled, 83 continued into
second-year, but fewer than 52 stayed
on for third-year. Of these, 49 sat for
the Intermediate examination and 43
passed. The majority of these then left
school, only 15 tackling fourth-year.
More than a fifth of these had dropped-
out by the time fifth-year began, and by
the time it ended 11.5 lined-up for the
Leaving examination, which 9.7 passed.
If the purpose of secondary education
in N.S.W. is to bring children to the
Leaving standard, then it is less than 10
per cent, effective. That, of course, is
not the stated objective, though it is
naturally the hope of the department
that as many students as possible will
complete the five-year course. It is a
fact, however, . that the high-school
course is geared to the Leaving Certifi.
cate and that this affects the curriculum
of all pupils. The system falls down in
two ways.
It does not completely meet the
demands of the universities, the Teachers’
College and the commercial community
for Leaving Certificate passes; it does
not enable the early-leavers to get as
much value as they might from their
years at high-school.
Suggestions
r T'HE report suggests the abolition of
1 both Intermediate and Leaving
examinations and the organisation of a
curriculum to provide “a core, of subjects
common to all schools,” with a progres-
sive increase in elected subjects (the
choice to be made under teacher-guidance
in the light of the pupil’s achievement or
potential). At the end of a four-year
course it suggests an external School
Certificate Examination.
Pupils wishing to continue beyond
School Certificate level would do a further
two years, leading to a Higher School
Certificate, which would be at matricula-
tion level. The idea seems to be that
the School Certificate would take the
place at present filled in industry by the
Intermediate and Leaving Certificates
and that the absence of a certificate at
the end of third-year might induce more
to stay on for fourth-year instead of
standing on their statutory right to leave
school at 15.
The School Certificate pass would be
a symbol of a good general education,
while the two extra years to the Higher
Certificate would send undergraduates to
the universities better equipped than at
present. These points are all arguable
and are, in fact, the subject of consider-
able argument at present.
If more children can be induced tO
want to learn, that is all to the good. But
it should be recognised that many of the
youngsters who leave secondary-school
at 15 have made up their minds to do so
long before they attain that age and
during their last year at school regard
themselves as merely filling-in time until
their 15th birthday arrives. In that year
they are not only wasting their own time
but also that of their teachers and of other
impressionable youngsters who would
take their own studies more seriously
but for the bad example of the unteach-
ables. Such pupils are doubly an
economic waste to the community, and
the school-leaving age should be made
flexible enough to deal with them.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM
Melbourne Racing
Most racegoers left the Caul-
field track last Saturday con-
vinced that the four-year-old
Empyrean gelding High Gun
has an outstanding chance in
the rich Oakleigh Plate to be
run at Caulfield on Feb. 15 ;
and that despite the strong team
of sprinters due from Sydney.
As a two-year-old, High' Gun
won brilliantly at each of his
first three starts. He went
wrong, and had to be spelled
for over a year. “Bon”
Hoysted brought the gelding
back to racing at Moonee
Valley on Jan. 18, when he
scored impressively against a
good-class field. Again at
Caulfield last Saturday, High
Gun raced right away from a
field of the best sprinters in
Melbourne. He sped over the
54 furlongs of the first Barton
Handicap in the brilliant time
of 1.4.1 —just |sec. outside
Adelina’s track-record. High
Gun will not start again before
the Oakleigh Plate, in which he
is handily weighted with 8.0.
The line-up in the second
division of the Barton Handi-
cap was much weaker than the
field High Gun defeated.
Nevertheless, the winner, the
four-year-old Gold Nib mare
Nydello, at least earned a start
in the Oakleigh Plate by win-
ning the race from end-to-end.
From an Oakleigh Plate view-
point, it is in Nydello’s favor
that she runs her best races at
Caulfield.
• • • •
Even allowing for the state
of the track —made exception-
ally fast by weeks without
rain—the Newtown Wonder
filly Manzana put up a smart
performance to cover the five
furlongs of the Kingston Stakes
in less than a minute. Her time
was 59.8, which indicates that
she is a filly well above average.
She was bred at the Woodlands
Stud in New South Wales, and
cost her owner, W. J. T. Clarke,
llOOgns. at the Sydney yearling-
sales. There is speed and
stamina in the filly’s breeding.
She is by Newtown Wonder out
of Moni Koura. Her second
dam, Miss Cygnea, is a half-
sister to Greensborough, in his
day one of Melbourne’s best
sprinters. Through Miss
Cygnea, Manzana belongs to a
family which has produced
Melbourne Cup winners, Lord
Nolan, Lord Cardigan and
Rainbird.
• • • •
It is not often a horse starts
at 8 to 1 for its third successive
win as Maori Gold did at Caul-
field last Saturday. It was sug-
gested here recently that the
handsome Sabaean chestnut
gelding is a stone better horse
at Caulfield, and it is a fact
that Maori Gold’s hat-trick of
“After this, let's go some place bright, uh?”
wins have all been notched at
the Heath. Reason for his
liberal price last Saturday was
the doubt about his running 10
furlongs. He not only got that
distance comfortably—he led
from end to end, and was going
as well as any horse in the
race at the finish. His owner,
Carnegie grain-merchant T. G.
Logan, must be glad now that
nobody bid high enough to pur-
chase Maori Gold when he was
put up for sale some time ago.
The reserve then was 5000gns.,
but it would require a lot more
money than that to buy the
gelding now.
• • •’ •
Shock of racing at Caulfield
was the defeat of the highly-
regarded Chief Wongo. The
Underwood colt, a striking
black, is one of the best-looking
young horses in Melbourne, and
his two wins prior to last Satur-
day’s run suggested that his
ability matched his looks. It
would be well to overlook his
defeat by Vogel last Saturday.
Chief Wongo was drawn badly,
and from the mile barrier at
Caulfield that is a great dis-
advantage. Moreover he had to
concede Vogel 191 b. The
winner is undoubtedly better
than most people realised.
Saturday’s success was his
second in a row. New Zealand-
bred, Vogel is by Sabaean from
Hunter’s Lass, and is a half-
brother to that good weight-
for-age performer Coppice.
Prolific owner W. R. Kemball
races Vogel.
Racing luck is a slippery
thing. The Hoysteds, whose
recent run of success has been
the talk of Melbourne racing,
sent out three short-priced
favorites at Caulfield —two of
them odds-on chances —and
saw all three defeated.
* * *
—and Randwick .
Sydney is rich in sprint-
talent this season, and maybe
Melbourne racegoers are in for
a treat as their best horses
oppose the visitors in tfie main
events over short courses next
month and in the first week of
March. Dubbo cleared-out
with the AJ.C. Challenge
Stakes and is ready for his
clashes in Melbourne with
other top speedsters. His time
for the Challenge, 1.94, was
close to Randwick’s best, 1.94,
made by Mandingos in October
last. Australia’s best, 1.84, was
made at Flemington in 1940 by
Aurie’s Star. As Dubbo won
on the bit after leading all the
way he could have broken the
Randwick record had he been
ridden out. He started at 6-to-4.
It was his third successive win,
and backers wanted only one
other, Squander Lad, which
finished second four lengths
away. High Spot ran third.
Dubbo is a Newtown Wonder
three - year - old. He cost
2200gns. as a yearling, but has
long since proved a bargain
buy, even at that figure.
Seven wins this season, five
ol them in succession, have
shown Gay Satin up in a favor-
able light. She is trained at
Rosebery by Sid Nicholls for
Paddock bookmaker Le n
Burke. The stable, on track-
work and race-form, regarded
her as certain winner of the
AJ.C. Valicare Handicap at
Randwick, in which she easily
defeated Meadow and Pale
Blue after being backed from
2-to-l to 10-to-9. Gay Satin is
a staying three-year-old filly
and has won up to 10 furlongs.
Connections are confident she
will make it tough for
opponents in the £4OOO Adrian
Knox Stakes, 14 mile, at the
AJ.C. autumn meeting. She
is by Rock and Rye (imp.)
from All Satin by Brueghel
(It.); one of her relatives,
Formidable, won the 1947
Grand National Steeplechase.
Veteran owner E. A. Haley
wasn’t surprised when Prince
Darius defeated his top winner
Tulloch in a track-gallop with
colors up between races at
Randwick on Challenge Stakes’
day. Nor was Tulloch’s trainer
T. J. Smith. “Tulloch is not
an easy horse to understand,
and I believe he will be better
than ever this time up,” said the
lucky owner of the crack three-
year-old, which hasn’t been in
training as long as his rival.
Prince Darius left the six fur-
longs behind in 1.174, the last
four in 474, so the first two took
30sec.- —even time.
Accountant had proved
expensive to owner A. Turner,
who paid 850gns. for him as
a yearling, until his recent
success at Canterbury Park in
Maiden company. The four-
year-old gelding is trained at
Warwick Farm by* Ted Frost,
a former “pony” jockey, and it
was a welcome break for him.
Accountant followed-up by a
promising second at Randwick
to odds-on Ulandra. The geld-
ing is by Edwardsii (imp.) from
Posted . Ledger (half-sister to
Hans) by Posterity (imp.).
Three winners of the Mel-
bourne Cup figure in Account-
ant’s background, but he isn’t
likely to aspire to Cup honors.
* * *
Well-fancied Dona Buzz,
winner of the Maiden two-year-
old fillies’ race at Eagle Farm
last Saturday, was a cheap
yearling at the Randwick sales
last Easter, when she was
bought at 200gns. Raced


by owner-trainer E. Tanwan,
she is by Merry Cavalier (imp.)
from Cooperi by The Buzzard
(imp.) from Seredel by Sere-
mond (imp.) and traces back to
Lochiel. Cooperi has proven
a good brood-mare; she has
thrown other winners. Dona
Buzz is a sister to Hassari,
Takaros and Marykath. The
first-named two won races in
modest company, but two
better-known horses figuring in
the filly’s pedigree were High-
strung and Pamboona, winners
in top Brisbane company. Sir
Delville, winner of the Second
Maiden Nursery the same
afternoon (for colts and geld-
ings), also was sold at that
Randwick auction. He brought
lOOOgns. and is by Delville
Wood (imp.) from Anastacia
by Le Grand Due (imp.). He
belongs to the Heroic family.
* * *
Race-clubs might soon find
the jackpot-betting plan embar-
rassing rather than a popular
innovation and a money-
spinner for the N.S.W. Govern-
ment, the clubs and the tote-
company. Heavily backed
winners of the first four jackpot
races —two at odds-on and one
at 6-to-4 —on Challenge Stakes
day meant the pool was certain
to go-off, and the changing of
thousands of tickets —a better
scheme may soon have to be
found —led to much confusion,
some ugly scenes, and showed-
up the betting side of racing
in a most unfavorable light.
Its opponents were given
some food for thought. Hold-
ing-up of advertised starting-
times to enable jackpot ticket-
holders to complete business —
racing is not put on for them
entirely—will only lose interest
for other patrons, some thou-
sands of whom haven’t
bothered to bet the latest way,
nor do they intend to do so. It
also isn’t, the right thing for
horses to be idling behind the
starting-gates or held up other-
wise while punters are chang-
ing tickets. The “substitute”-
horse plan should have been
used instead of holding back
races. Doubles-backers also
were hot under the collar about
a cancellation.
* * *
Trotting
In the £6OOO Harold Park
Cup on the last night of the
N.S.W. Trotting Club’s
summer carnival the 14-tc-l
Brilliant Moon led from
shortly after the start, to win
by a length from the 5-to-2
favorite Sibelia, with Robert
Sheen a head away third. L.
Blackwell, who trains and
drives both Brilliant Moon and
First Variety, gave the drive to
P. J. Hall, because, he said,
“First Variety is a one-man
horse and is difficult to drive.”
Plans to retire Brilliant Moon
have been revised following his
“brilliant” win. He will now
contest the £lOOO Invitation
Stakes of lli furlongs at
Harold Park next Saturday
night.
• • • •
Glamor pacer Fettle scored
his eighth successive win at
Harold Park in winning the
£2OOO Summer Handicap by
2\ lengths from Bannalagh with
Spring Scott third. Fettle
started at 6-to-4 on and won
with a lot in hand.
• • • •
Diabolo Don (6-to-4) got a
lucky break-through on the
fence in the last furlong to win
the £l5OO Carnival Handicap
from Field Dixie and Brusque.
A crowd of 24,235 saw the
events.
+ +
Sundry Sports
Last Saturday, with his
brilliant 233 against Victoria,
Norm O’Neill became only the
third batsman to make 1000
runs in the one Sheffield Shield
season. Those mammoth-
scorers Bradman and Ponsford
were the first two. O’Neill’s
fourth-wicket stand with Booth
of 325 broke the previous
Sheffield Shield fourth-wicket
record of 315, set by Test-
captains M. A. Noble and Sid
Gregory 50 years ago. Not
surprisingly, with O’Neill to
play for S.A. next season, his
innings brought headlines in
Adelaide. He must now be
rated a certain Test-player of
the very near future. Though
no comparison is intended —•
none, in fact, is possible—the
background to his double-
century was an Australian
hatting-collapse in the third
Test against South Africa at
Durban.
At the start of the season
Queensland had high hopes of
winning the Sheffield Shield for
the first time. It won its first
two games (first-innings win
over N.S.W., outright over
W.A.), but its chances slumped
when, in its next game, Victoria
thrashed it to outright defeat.
What slight chance the northern
State still had disappeared
completely when S.A. defeated
it on the first innings in Bris-
bane last week. Now* as is so
often the case, it’s a straightout
fight between N.S.W., the
holders, and Victoria, with the
odds in favor of N.S.W.
• • •, •
Victorian all-rounder Bruce
Murray, who is making his
Sheffield Shield debut in the
Victoria-v.-N.S.W. match
finishing today, is also a well-
known Australian Rules foot-
baller. A half-forward, he led
Moorabbin to its first V-F.A.
premiership last season.
Another top-line footballer
(V.F.L.) in the Victorian side
is opening - batsman Alan
Aylett, who was 12th-man
against N.S.W. Skipper Sam
Loj&on was once a V.F.L.
star, with St. Kilda, and lan
Huntington is a V-F.L. umpire.
• • • •
In a recent under-18 game in
Sydney for the A. W. Green
Shield, Gordon defeated
Paddington outright, after the
15-year-old Paddington skipper
had closed his second innings
with only three wickets down
and given Gordon a farcical
24 runs to get. Gordon, by its
outright win, was thus enabled
to qualify for the final; had it
won only on the first innings,
Manly would have qualified.
Manly naturally lodged a
protest, but the N.S.W.C.A.
upheld Gordon’s outright win.
Seems pretty tough on the
Manly boys.
• • • •
“Mid-on” leg-glances—sorry,
just glances—back at some
women cricketers of the
1930’5:
The present visit of the English
girl cricketers recalls to mind some
of those playing around the time of
the English visit of 1934-35. Some-
what unehivalrously, the results of
the women’s Tests and other
important games are never recorded
in Wisden’s or cricket year-books.
(Mrs. Grace, mother of W.G., is,
of course, the only woman whose
name appears in Wisden .) I can
remember a few names, but no
figures.
Two pairs of sisters played for
Australia then, Pedens and Shevills.
Essie Shevill was Australia’s “Brad-
man.” Very popular with the
crowds was a little dark-
haired Victorian, Peggy
Antonio, presumably of Italian
descent, who sent up some shapely
leg-breaks. Australia’s fast-bowler
was Queenslander Kath Smith, left-
hander, who could pound them
down quick enough—last I heard
of her she was a Service police-
woman in the W.A.A.A.F.S.
The English team was led by Betty
Archdale, who onjy recently resigned
as headmistress of a big Sydney
girls’ school. First-wicket-down, and
England’s “Hammond,” was Molly
Hide, who captained the English-
women who came here in 1948-49.
Opening-bat and slow-bowler (she
also came again in 1948) was Myrtle
Maclagan, and her opening-partner,
and the side’s wicketkeeper, was
she of an unforgettable surname,
Betty Snowball, who was vice-
captain on the tour in ’4B-’49.
In conclusion, most, if not all, of
the experts who have seen them
agree that the girls really can play
the game.
“Severas”: There might be
fewer “prima-donna” antics,
and less nonsense generally, on
the centre-court if tennis-
umpires had the same authority
as those controlling other
games. I don’t see why they
shouldn’t have such power.
One of Australia’s top players
has backchatted umpires more
often, probably, than he’s had
breakfasts, and has always got
away with it —his most recent
(and perhaps worst) instance
was in this year’s just-con-
cluded Australian champion-
ships. At football (the two
Rugby codes, anyway) he’d
very soon get his marching-
orders if he came that caper;
and on the cricket-field, of
course, the men. in black-and-
white rightly have . full and
unquestioned authority.
* * *
As the result of winning the
recent Empire Games test-race
on Lake Wendouree, Merv
Wood and fellow-policeman
Murray Riley, who won the
doubles-sculls at the Empire
Games in Auckland in 1950
and at Vancouver in 1954, will
try for their third title at Cardiff
this year. They came third in
the event at the 1956 Olympic
Games. Wood won the single-
sculls at the 1948 Olympics and
came second at the ’52 Games.
N.S.W. rowers will represent
Australia in all rowing events
at the Cardiff Games.
* * *
“Veryl”: Jon Henricks,
former world-record-holding
lreestyle sprint-swimmer and
1956 Olympic 100-metres gold-
medallist, may not compete
again in big-time swimming
events. Now at university in
the U.S.A., he was still swim-
ming fast times on a European
tour last year ; but he’s now
21, when most top swimsters
seem to be “burnt out.’’
* * *
Empire flyweight title:
At Durban last Friday
Sopth Africa’s ■ “pocket
Marciano,” Dennis Adams, made
exceeding short work of Australian ■
flyweight champ. Warner Batchelor,
to retain his Empire flyweight title.
The red-haired Queenslander, who
didn’t get a punch in, hit the canyas
for the full count early in the
second round, after being down
twice in the first round. Adams
won the title in October last year by
a third-round k.o. of British
champion Frankie Jones. Before the
fight with Batchelor, he’d already
been offered a match with world
titleholder, Pascual Perez, of
Argentina. No Australian has yet
held the Empire flyweight title.
Batchelor turned professional shortly
after the 1956 Olympic Games, in
which he was eliminated in the
quarter-finals by the eventual third-
Elace getter; since then he’s mainTy
een fighting Australian bantam-
weight champ. Dick White, for two
wins by White and a draw.


BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS,
T"“"" * SONS LTD.
uu
BORN 1820 —STILL GOING STRONG
JOHNNIE
WAkKER
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Every drop Distilled and
k
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
I
zroerMr
himself into it, Dawson went to
see him, and found him sweat-
ing with repentance.
“Blind me eyes, George, but
I’m a bloomin’ fool! If you’ll
take me out this time, I’ll never
touch another drop,” he said,
according to press-reports.
Dawson gave him another
chance, and sent him out to
West Baden to recuperate.
At this, the silvertails of the
Chicago Athletic Association
became very upstage. “There
is a feeling among members at
the C.A.A.,” said a Chicago
paper, “that in his second
attempt at reforming the repro-
bate, Dawson is not only mak-
ing a great mistake, but is also
allowing his name to be coupled
with a common bum, an
association not very satisfac-
tory, at least to members of a
high-toned club in which
Dawson is an instructor.”
©NCE more Griffo shaped
up to the purgatory of
dragging himself into fighting
condition. On May 1, 1900, he
boxed another six rounds with
Jack Lewis at the Star Theatre,
Chicago ; referee Paddy
Carroll gave his decision as a
draw. “Fast and clever,” the
papers said; but Griffo was
overweight and seemed tired at
the close.
Out of the blue there came
the offer of a contest with
Gans at Coney Island. It was
a full-dress affair, 25 rounds at
9st. 91b., an important engage-
ment for a fellow who had
been fighting unknowns in
yallejo and Sacramento.
Griffo went to New York
and for once seemed to be in
earnest about the hard grind of
training. He knew he was up
against it, but he was going
to silence his critics. The great
Joe Gans? —Griffo had met
him twice, and fancied he knew'
Joe inside out. And Coney
Island, scene of his big shows
with McAuliffe and Dixon!
The signs were all in his
favor, he decided, as he
slammed mighty belts on the
punching-bag, grinning with
confidence.
But during Griffo’s two bad
years, 1898 and 1899, Gans had
been at his place of business.
He had slugged it out in 27
battles with the best light-
weights in the States, at that
fime a particularly ferocious
bunch. Nobody had beaten
him except “Elbows” Mc-
Fadden; in the same period
he had won against McFadden
and drawn with him. Fighting
more often than once a month,
he was sharpened by what
tennis-players call match-
practice.
In build the Old Master was
a lightweight copy of Sugar
Ray Robinson, and for sheer
skill and punching fury they
were twin brothers.
Gans was a formidable
slogger by this time. Just how
formidable may be judged
from the fact that over the next
eight years, until he met
Battling Nelson, he was to lose
only two fights, one of which,
against Terry McGovern, was
a raw and obvious fake His
only real loss was to Sam
Langford, later on a fearsome
rib-bender amongst the heavy-
weights, and well remembered
in Australia. Sam’s death in
January, 1956, snapped one of
the last threads leading back
to those half-forgotten times.
Gans, apart from his terrific
counter-punches, was always
practising subtle and deceitful
tricks on his opponents. One
of the opponents, Frank
(‘Spike”) Robson, tried to
explain what was likely to
happen when the referee com-
manded a break.
“He had a short hook, had
Joe, with which he would find
a man’s jaw just as he started
to get back, which almost
always spelt a knock-down.
Gans’s pull-back at such times
was absolutely masterly. No
one could ever accuse him of
fouling in any way, but the
man who thought he had got
clear and was going right back
would find himself coming
right in, and would then, before
he was able to figure out
exactly what had happened to
him, receive a terrific hook
right on the angle of the jaw.”
If Spike sounded a little
muddled still, it could have
been the hook’s after-effects.
For Joe Gans, the Coney
Island fight was a prelude to
eight years as cock of the walk.
For Griffo, it was his last
serious contest, his final gallop
in the ranks of the elect.
The referee was Charley
White of New York, who had
kept the peace in the Jeffries-
Corbett fight at the same place,
two months earlier. There was
not much betting on the event;
Gans was favorite at odds at
2 to 1.
AS he stood up on this
night of July 10 it was
seen that Griffo had trained
faithfully, and had shed the
excess blubber which in the
past had so often slowed him
down. Gans, as always, was in
faultless condition.
Griffo came out of his corner
looking businesslike and uncon-
cerned, a tradesman settling
down to an interesting job. He
landed a surprise left to the
Negro’s face, balked briefly,
and then shot out his long left
hook. It took Gans on the eye,
and the crowd yelled.
Gans moved about warily,
and seemed to be puzzled by
the succession of fast lefts
which the Australian was firing
at him. In a rapid exchange
of close-range shots, Griffo
slipped to the floor. He
jumped up laughing, and
rushed in with a venomous
body attack, at machine-gun
pace.
He pursued Gans like a
hunter as soon as the gong
rang for the second round. His
one idea was to get to close
quarters and pound the Negro’s
slim body into surrender. His
methods had lost all trace of
the style which had astounded
Americans when he first came
to the country. Discarded was
the impenetrable defence
which Corbett owned he could
see no way to break.
Instead, he put his head
down and whaled away at the
body with both hands. The
“Jeffries crouch” was the
fashion of the day, and the
word went around that the bug
had bitten Griffo, too.
Oddly enough, these very
tactics, as employed by Battling
Nelson, twice wrecked Gans in
1908, but by that time he was
at the end of his strength ; he
died two years later. Against
Griffo, he counter-punched
effectively to the head. Griffo
was bubbling with confidence.
They heard him say to Gans.
“I’m going to do yer!”
In the third round one of
Griffo’s eyes was beginning to
close, but he was still reckless
with his defence, and served out
rib-roasters until Gans trapped
bis arms in a clinch. On the
break, Griffo bounced back to
the assault, and kept up an
(Continued on page 57)


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy The Sorcerers of Dobu, by
R. F. Fortune; Savage Civilisations,
by Tom liarrisson; Island Builders
of the Pacific, by Walter G. Ivens;
The Savage South Seas, by Norman
H. Hardy; Savages in Serge, by J. G.
Hides; and Argonauts of the
Western Pacific, by Malinowski. —
6658.
Words of an old song, the first
line of which runs, roughly, “Dame
Durden had five serving-maids”;
the last line and refrain, “ . . . . and
Dorothy Draggletail” (presumably
referring to a dairy-herd). Also,
the words of “Polly Perkins of
Paddington Green.” —6661.
To buy copy of “The Bulletin
Reciter. —6662.
To buy Personal Jesus —Portrait
and Interpretation, by Upton
Sinclair. —6663.
Information Sought
A few pointers on the correct
procedure for the chairman at a
wedding-breakfast ?
The chairman takes charge of
the wedding-breakfast at table, and
is not an M.C. for the whole
function —these other details are
settled by the parties concerned. An
agenda-paper should be prepared
in consultation with the principals,
to arrange speeches, etc. The
chairman’s job is to make sure every-
one is seated in proper order. When
all food is served a little time should
be allowed before speeches and
toasts. The chairman then rises,
makes a few felicitous remarks, and
calls on the principal relatives or
iriends for their speeches. Bride-
groom comes last, and never the
bride, unless she wishes to speak.
Toasts are interspersed between
speeches, the loyal one of “The
Queen” coming first. A few grace-
ful words from you conclude the
affair. If it’s a very formal occasion
buy a book on social customs;
procedures vary greatly today in
different or towns, and may be
altered to suit your friends’ tastes.
Keep the ceremony happy and brief,
and don’t worry about doing the
wrong thing. Ask advice of experi-
enced friends to clear up any further
points.
* * * *
(1) Brief history of the Incan
empire before its conquest by Spain ?
(2) List of the more important Incan
rulers ? (3) Did the Incas come
originally from Asia ? (4) What
books deal with the Incas ?
(1) Knowledge of the history of
the empire of the Incas before the
conquest is very scant and
indefinite, mainly because the Incas
bad no written language whatso-
ever. (The term “Inca” should
correctly be used of the rulers only,
but the name of the people is not
known; they are therefore also
called “the Incas.”) There were
official “rememberers” who handed
down orally the deeds of the various
Inca rulers, but not much of this
remembered history was taken down
by the Spaniards. A lot of what is
now known has been discovered by
archasological research. The Inca
empire, which followed earlier
civilisations, is believed to have
begun about a.d. 1000. The govern-
ment was a benevolent despotism,
with the population regimented (but
well looked-after) in a rigid caste-
system. The sun and the moon
were worshipped; also the
“unknown God,” a supreme spirit,
all-pervading. The empire was
overthrown by the Spaniard
Pizarro in 1533-34. (2) The official
list, as given by Garcilasso de la
Vega, the Spanish-Incan chronicler
born in 1540 whose Royal Com-
mentaries of Peru is an important
historical source, is—Manco Capac
(the legendary founder of the
empire), Sinchi Roca, Lloque
Yupanqui, Mayta Capac, Capac
Yupanqui, Inca Roca, Yahuar
Huacac, Viracocha Inca, Pachacuti
Inca Yupanqui, Topa Inca
Yupanqui, Huayna Capac, Huascar
and Atahualpa (the 13th Inca). A
chronology, worked out by an
authority on the Incas, John H.
Rowe, is, from Pachacuti onwards
—Pachacuti (1438-71), Topa Inca
(1471-93), Huayna Capac (1493-
1527). Huascar (1527-32; he was
assassinated by his brother Ata-
bualpa after a long civil war), and
Atahualpa (1532 to Aug., 1533,
when in turn he was assassinated by
Pizarro). The list of Incas, and the
chronology, are as reprinted in
Victor W. von Hagen’s Realm of
the Incas (1957). (3) It seems not.
The Incas have been described as
descendants of the lost tribes of
Israel, of Kublai Khan, of Egyptians
and Chinese; but most authorities
consider they originated in and
around Cuzco, later the capital of
their empire. (4) There is a
voluminous library. Apart from the
chronicles left by several 16th-
century Spaniards and the other
works cited, they include the
famous TV History of the Con-
quest of Peru, by William Prescott
(1847) —still unassailable today—
Indians of the Andes, Aymaras and
Quechuas, by Harold Osborne
(1952), The Incas of Peru (1910) and
other works by Sir Clements Mark-
ham, Lost City of the Incas, by
Hiram Bingham 0948) Wendell
Bennett s Ancient Arts of the Andes
11954), and Ancient Civilisations of
the Andes, by P. A. Means (1931).
* * * *
Recipe for ginger wine?
To every gallon of cold water use
Jib. sugar, ljoz. whole ginger
bruised with a hammer, 2 lemons,
2 Seville oranges, 1 sweet orange,
loz. split raisins. Squeeze all the
fruit, slice the peel thinly, and put
all the ingredients together into a
wooden or enamel tub for two or
three days until the sugar is dis-
solved, stirring frequently. Strain
into a cask, and add a little yeast,
" Hurry up—We tie only got three-thousand feet left!”
but do not stir again. The cask
should be not quite full, as it will
work-up. In about a week, fill the
cask and close tightly. Should be
ready in three or four months. The
white part of the rinds may be left
out. All wine-type drinks are slow
to make.
* * * *
How to cook abalones (mutton-
fish) ?
Rinse in clean water, separate
molluscs from shells, cut off any
hard fringes or tassels,' and place
in saucepan with just enough water
to cover. Cook gently until tender,
and remove to a warm dish. Make
a white sauce with the cooking-water
and some milk, using loz. gutter, f
tablespoon flour, 1 teaspoon
anchovy-sauce, and a pinch of salt.
Pour over abalones, serve with bread
and butter or mashed potatoes.
Cooked in this way they may also
be served in pastry ramekins. Time
of cooking abalones depends on
their age; you’ll have to experiment
a bit. Try any cookery-book recipes
for oysters or mussels, using
abalones instead. For further hints
try American books on Californian
food.
Brief Answers
A.E.W.: (1) Yes, you may peruse
th ■„ nersnn hv
. oirS S ihe Rems,
STrobatS and paying a ta? (!)
As duty is calculated on the net
value of an estate it is difficult to
assess the amount of duty unless
you know the amount of the estate
and the exact amount of the debts
owing by and due to the estate. You
should also know the relationship
of the beneficiaries to the testator,
Ii would be safer to say the amount
of duty is not really readily
ascertainable... .P.H.LaF.: One
hears from time to time of a
number of large estates either in
Chancery in England or unadminis-
tered in other countries, and a
number of them have become
famous. For the most part their
fame is journalistic rather than
legal and is occasioned by the
interest everyone has in a large
amount of money going begging.
The case you mention is one of the
journalistic kind, and there is no
recognisable reference to it
among the authorities
M.N.: Write Chartres, Ltd., 169
Liverpool Street, Sydney “J.
Fred Muggs”: Nutt and Muddle
and Sons Pty., Ltd., slot-machine
manufacturers, are listed in the
Sydney telephone-directory....
D.L.K.: Can’t help you about books
of aboriginal words; try Australian
Museum, College Street, Hyde Park,
Sydney W.N.F.: Thanks for
information; inquirer has been
answered 8.R.: N. S. Wales,
Victoria and Tasmania produced the
best four entries in the A.B.C.’s Pop
Song Contest —“If You Don’t Get
Out of My Dreams, I’ll Get You,”
music by M. Canderle, of 365 Great
Western Highway, N.S.W., words by
Douglas Maguire; “In Barcelona,”
music by Harry Connelly, of 65
Byron Street, Coogee, N.S.W., words


HARTS
Circular Charts for all types
of Recording Instrument*
lor any class ol Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
ACCURACY GUARANTEED
JACMP*' O'SULLIVAN Pi;l«
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA — In Divorce.
TO LIONEL LEONARD CORRIE form-
erly of Perth, W.A.—TAKE NOTICE
that your wife JUNE LILLIAN CORRIE
has commenced proceedings against you
for divorce on the ground of desertion
for a continuous period of three years
If you desire to defend these proceed-
ings you must file a Defence in the
Central Office of the Supreme Court
within forty (40) clear days from the
date of this publication In default of
your so doing the case may proceed and
the Court will pronounce judgment and
make orders against you iin your
absence. DATED the 17 th day of
January, 1958. —G. J. BOYLSON.
Registrar.
JOHN H. O’HALLORAN & CO., of 89
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitors
for the Plaintiff.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world-ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
by Fran Lambert; “Go Home,
Stranger,” music and words by L.
White, of 6 Welsh Street, Noble
Park, Vic.; and “Happy,” music
and words by lan Pearce, of 74
Main Road, Rose Bay, Hobart.....
D. 1.: A. J. Forsyte and Co. are a
firm of technical publishers,
established in early 1957
M.L.T.: D. B. Williams’s Economic
and Technical Problems of Aus-
traliu's Rural Industries, reviewed on
the “Man on the Land” (B.
1/1 /’5B), is published by Melbourne
University Press, Carlton, N. 3,
Victoria... .H.S.: Try the Aus-
tralian Psychology Centre, 296 Pitt
Street, Sydney L.J.O’H.: Here
are a few: Dundundra, waterfall;
Demondr jl, place of spear-reeds;
Delungra, a water-weed; Edgeroi,
creek; Eurabba, boggy creek;
Gullen, swamp; Galong, swampy
plains; Gilgandra, long waterhole;
Gulligal, place of water; Kimbriki,
water-reed ; Jilliby, where two creeks
meet; Bombala, meeting of the
waters; Bong Bong, many water-
courses ; Bungonia, sandy creek;
Elanora, home by the sea; Illawong,
view of the water ; Gurian, lake or
lagoon; Kurrabi, gully or creek;
Pambula, two waters... ;F.0.1.: If
your query refers to “The Sydney
Morning Herald” competition held
in 1946. copies of the supplements
with the prizewinning designs are out
of stock A. 8.: The Common-
wealth Department of Health states
that all persons entering the U.S.A.
and Canada must be vaccinated
against smallpox. The U.K. and
Continental countries do not com-
pel sea-passengers to be vaccinated,
but all countries require it for
passengers on international air-
travel. Certificates (which should be
on the approved international form)
are valid for three years, beginning
eight days after the date of a
successful primary vaccination, or, in
the event of a revaccination, on the
date of that revaccination.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
flame and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contribution voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
F.D.J.: Too long-winded....
8.L.: Articles should be more than
a mere dry recital of facts....
H.K.R.: Just one stanza, then:
Oh Morn that doth my heart inspire,
That speaks to me like a heavenly choir,
Oh Star of the East! You radiant sun,
Oh why must you set, when day is
done!
... .0.T.: “I dashed this off in a
couple of hours.” After a first read-
ing, it’s more than obvious....
E.L.: Reduce adjectives—and
length of sentences R.R.: }^hy
must you describe “people” as “that
mass of struggling humanity”?
W.P.L.: It would be better not to
pass comment on that poem....
G.N.: Stockman holidaying in city
foils safe-blower’s plans, marries
big banker’s daughter; you can’t
bank on a plot like that... .5.8.:
Just a flyweight F.C.: The
sparks of originality are smothered
iti platitudes K.R.: “Out for a
Duck” surely isn’t something to
sign your name to? A.W.:
Send it to a music paper T.J.J.:
Slessor was a long way before you.
Y.L.: Just missed out; try a
local setting W. 0.: It’s not
Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims which state the
section in which paragraphs
appear and the date of
appearance will be paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
much good writing about the
Nullarbor if you’ve never been there.
Q.L.E.: “Ode to Waugh”
waughful D.D.: Whimsy must
never be forced; read Leacock....
C.K.P.: Some of your touches are
colorful, but the climax is over-
stated R.N.: The best advice
would be to keep trying
R.G.K.: The idea’s not bad, but
your style could do with some over-
hauling 0.J.: Bumbles along like
a sick polar-bear T.L.: It may
be “unusual,” but that doesn’t
necessarily guarantee it F.P.:
One or two faint but genuine
touches G.G.: “Tortuous seas
arched their green backs perilously
close.” A little watery, and . . . well,
watery K.8.N.: Not much to
either of them; your main fault is
circumlocution... .1.H.: One of the
better rejects F.V.: Don’t send
stories until you can write para-
graphs. .. .M.W.: Reading such
jolting, jittery prose is rather like a
spin in the Big Dipper... .F.R.:
Went within a semicolon of accept-
ance A.W.: Yes, but .that plot’s
been plotted and plotted....
Final Instalment of:
Stockmen All
By W.F.H.
[Revenge!. .Linda gets her man
...A bolt from the blue... Vale
Jimmie. . .To Jackie, Susan and
Waters many offspring, stockmen
all.}
FOUR nights later Bill was play-
ing his accordian- and singing
when a seven foot spear whished
through and entered his abdomen
the pointed end coming through the
other side of his body. Feeling sick
and in a high emotional tension he
held the long end of the spear in
one hand and his rifle in the other
he slowly made tracks for the
fencers camp in the scrub blindly
stumbling onward the sick man
eventually reached the camp to fall
dead near the cookhouse. Every-
thing was confusion and nobody
noticed a halfcaste gin pick up Fills
rifle and dissapear into the scrub she
was Bills gin who having no morals
always loved her Bill who bashed
her. A few weeks later the boys
noticed a mob of crows hanging
around a spot which could have
been a soak, Emu, rode forward to
see and what he saw he kept to
himself but later on told his mates
he saw Davis remains and Bills rifle
nearby.
One day Linda, Susan, and
Waters were inland from the creeks
seeking native bee hives, and quon-
dong a multi colored berry alike
our cherry a thin skin of fruit and
a centre of hard seed. Native bee
honey was very sweet and much
sought after by natives of the bush.
If you saw a bee or pilot bee
emerging from a rotten stump or
notch in a tree you cut in and
found a small wax bag of very sweet
honey which made you delightfully
lazy. After a full swig of honey
the girls or gins slept it off under
a shady Wilga tree and as the day
wore on Susan awoke to see a tall
young white man gazing at the
sleeping trio, feeling flurried Susan
exclaimed, “Who be you!?” the
young man saying, “I am Tom
Ryan Kanga shooter who are you
kids” by this time all gins were
alert and on their feet and gazing
at Ryan who was all eyes on Linda
who looked something from heaven.
Ryan knowing the gins weakness
for gaudy clothes told the gins when
the hawker came he would buy
pretty dresses for Linda if she came
to his camp. Linda becoming
attracted to this fine white man
asked him where his camp was,
Saying, I will be seeing you Tommy
you very nice boy you like me?
Tommy gazed at this quarter caste
bush virgin and thought if I can
get this beaut I will be happy.
Answering her Tommy said, “you
bet I do sweetheart.” Linda blushed
and the two young gins
smiled they had tribal customs
to observe but Linda was
free to mate up with her man
the natural born son of a teamster
and bush pub trollope who drank
like a hsh. After much yabber
jabber the party broke up and
Tommy gazed at the departing gins
who were as shapely as any white
girl.
When in camp Linda told her
mother of Tommy and next day they
visited Tommy’s camp while he was
entertaining Karl Hansen a Dane.
Being lonely the men were
kind to the gins and they
became camp mates, call it
what you may the times and situa-
tion had to be understood from
the viewpoint of lonely
men who were prepared to be kind
to those women of mixed blood who
knew no morals and were kind of
heart and prepared to take the only
chance in life open to them. These
two gins proved wonderful camp
mates and both men were very
happy and in due ■ course decided
to marry them and a race set in
to head off the stalk by a trip to
St. George to see the Parson.
Jimmie, and Jackie were at a
dead end as their boys had
aissapeared to appear at Bora
giound in preparation for marriage
so the boys decided to explore the
abandoned Cattle station. Follow-
ing a narrow creek they came to a
hut very old, and outside was a
beefwood tree and a small lime tree
planted many years before. Jimmie
was near the beefwood tree sitting
on his horse while Jackie was filling
his quartpot with limes squashing
them he was about to turn when a
bolt from the blue coming from a
rising storm struck the large Beef-
wood tree and split it asunder
Jimmie and the two horses were
killed instantly Jimmie falling in a
tangle of horseflesh with his face
upward Jackie falling on his face.
Later two young gins Susan, and
Waters were also doing some explor-
ing in a bark canoe and seeing the
hut they decided to look inside to
view two skeletons with spears
among the bones and when coming
out the blood froze in their body
and hurrying forward they were just
in time to stop a crow from attack-
ing Jackie, alongside was Jimmie
dead. Picking Jackie up they
took him to the hut and Susan took
the canoe to camp to return with
spears, woomera, nulla Nulla, fish
spears and many things a black
needed to live on or exist.
Fifteen years later a Squatter
decided to open up the abandoned
Cattle Station. His idea was to
ringbark the dense scrub and try the
country with sheep. So one fine day
his surveyors came across the old
bark hut on the creek bank.
Dismounting they went to the open
door, and shouted, apybody at
home!” they were answered by a
tall man nearly black and naked
who had tribal markings on chest
arms and back. Looking in their
direction the men could see he was
blind and as he answered. “Who are
you! we are surveyors can we come
in”? Yes, you are the first white
people I have known for a lifetime
“come in, and have a yarn” Jackie!
get some seats for these gentlemen
and make it lively” a tall young
halfcaste grinning like an ape quickly
made the men comfortable and
Jackie, senior told them the hap-
penings of the past fifteen years or
more, and during the yarn Susan,
and Waters came in to listen to
Jackie, finish the story and tell what
happened to Jimmie, his mate of
long ago. Many questions were put
to Jackie, and when the police, and
his parents, also Jimmies had visited
the bark hut Jackie asked Jimmie’s,
parents if Jimmies remains could
stay near the old hut as in the
course of time he wished to be
buried alongside his mate. Later
the Squatter built Jackie a large
bark house and gave him five
acres of land a cow a horse and a
few tools to cultivate the land fence
etc. Emu, Possum and the mates
broke in the young Jackies, and
Jimmies to stock work and in the
course of time they married and so
evolution of the white and black
went on unto this day.
THE END


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
"AT THE GATE OF THE YEAR"
LONDON “Time and Tide,”
that notably clear-think-
ing and clear-writing Right-
wing journal, looks at the end
of an old year and the beginning
of a new:
“The Communist and non-
Communist parts of the world
stood as bitterly opposed as at
any time since the end of the
war. The two sides were hardly
on speaking terms, let alone on
negotiating terms. The
Russians were exhilarated with
diplomatic and scientific
success. From the nadir of
Hungary, which for one brief
moment seemed to threaten the
break-up of their whole empire,
they staged a tremendous come-
back, confirming the solidarity
of the bloc and Russia’s domi-
nating position in it.
“They exploited the
differences between Britain,
France and America to estab-
lish themselves firmly in the
Middle East. They lent
immense impetus to the
nationalist movements of Asia
and Africa. They crowned their
year with the launching of the
sputniks, a propaganda triumph
whatever its practical implica-
tions. Indeed they did almost
too well; it looked for a few
weeks as though they might
have frightened the Western
Alliance into new life. But at
year’s end the West was at
sixes and sevens, divided
vertically between different
States and horizontally between
Governments and Oppositions.
“It would be idle to hope that
the West can become as mono-
lithic as the Communist bloc.
. The Communists have an
agreed foreign policy, deriving
from an unquestioned basic
philosophy, and its application
is rigorously controlled. In the
West there is no unquestioned
philosophy and no agreed
policy, except to react belatedly
and ineffectively to each new
Communist move. There is no
equivalent of the Communist
International to co-ordinate
policy throughout the world.
“America certainly exercises
a vast influence, but influence
is one thing and overriding
control another. American
influence itself, haunted by an
anti-colonialism * which dates
from the burning of the White
House, is often exercised with
little regard for the realities
of a period when the only
‘colonial’ Power in the old
sense is Russia. Meanwhile
her Allies make no attempt to
understand the American
attitude towards China or to
respect a foreign policy which
for all its faults is often more
idealistic than their own. Within
the Parliamentary democracies
of the West, issues of foreign
policy no less than domestic
disputes are seized upon by
the Oppositions as powerful
sticks with which to beat the
Governments they seek to
supplant.
“While the composition of
the two sides remains so dis-
parate, the initiative and there-
fore the advantage must lie with
the Communists. This is not to
suggest that the Communists
want an all-out atomic war.
What they want, as Churchill
said some years ago, is ‘the
fruits of victory without war.’
The harvest has been ripening
well of late.
“The West cannot begin to
recover its position until it
asks itself some fundamental
questions, and the ingenuous
cries of joy which greeted the
mere suggestion of talks with
Russia- suggest that the in-
clination to face reality has
diminished rather than
increased. One might think
that nobody had ever tried to
talk to the Russians before }
that there had been no Yalta
or Potsdam or Geneva ; that the
betrayal of Hungary was a
century, not a bare 12 months,
away.
“We must ask ourselves
whether even in theory there
can be permanent and assured
peace between the Communist
and non-Communist worlds. It
is perfectly plain, however un-
pleasant, that there can be no
such peace while the Com-
munists remain dedicated to the
destruction of every other social
system than their own; and
they make no secret of the fact
that they are. ‘We shall bury
you,’ says Mr. Khrush-
chev when he isn’t talk-
ing about peaceful co-
existence. The Communists
may for the moment be devot-
ing themselves to depriving the
West of its sources of raw
materials and to disrupting its
domestic economies rather than
to open war, but their ultimate
purpose is quite unchanged.
“What then is possible? Only
a truce, an opportunity for the
London “News Chronicle”
“WERE MARCHING TO THE SOVIET EMBASSY TO FIND OUT WHO FED
HIS DOG WHILE HE WAS UP THERE.”
long process of history to pass
judgment on the rival economic
systems and methods of
Government. What would be
the minimum conditions of
such a truce? At the very least,
equality of strength between the
two sides, equal coherence of
policy, an equal capacity to see
that policy is consistently
applied in action. In the second
and third of these qualities the
West is badly at fault and in the
first no more than Dneasily
adequate. Without them agree-
ments may be made, but they
will be agreements which
merely illustrate Marshal Bul-
ganin’s recent dictum that ‘the
Communist Party never makes
a compromise unless it is in its
ultimate favor.’ Such agree-
ments be a step-by-step
retreat while the Russians
acquired ‘the fruits of victory
without war.’
“It is a matter of will and
faith, of really believing in
those illusory things called
‘Western values.’ If each
member of the Alliance sees it
only as an instrument of
temporary self - interest, the
Alliance will fly apart under
Communist diplomatic pressure.
If the free world, including
Western Germany, regards its
territory and independence as
negotiable, the bulwarks will
very soon come tumbling
down.”
U.S. Farm Production
Commenting on the U.S.
Department of Agriculture’s
report that, in 1957, 67 pro-
ducers of cotton, wheat and rice
received more than $50,000
each (two received more
than $200,000 each) from
the American taxpayer
for not growing crops,
“New York Times” complains
that “it is bad enough to have
to pay farmers for not produc-
ing crops ; it is worse to pay
them huge sums for not pro-
ducing crops ; it is worst of all
to have to pay huge sums for
not producing crops and end up
with bigger surpluses than ever
before.”
The U.S. Congress has
limited payments to $3OOO for
1958, but this, the “N. Y.
Times” adds, will not solve the
problem because the prospec-
tive yield from the newly


FOR VERY PARTICULAR PEOPLE...
:'. V V :: C ?
LUXURY TRANSATLANTIC AIR SERVICES
1
.rk
:tn
V
&
s:
U
£
/
Finest ever across the Atlantic, the
8.0.A.C. “ Monarch ” service now
offers more elegance, more luxury
and far greater spaciousness than
ever before to a restricted passenger
list of 40 well-cared-for people.
Replanned to allow every passenger
the comfort of a fully-reclining de-
luxe sleeper seat the super luxury
double-deck “Monarch” Stratocruiser
provides plenty of room to move
around. And the cocktail lounge on
the Ipwer deck is a joy discerning
travellers appreciate. You may re-
tire to a curtained sleeping berth
(available at nominal extra charge)
and round off with breakfast in bed
the finest journey you ever had.
The 8.0.A.C. “Monarch” service flies
over-night every night direct between
London and New York and between
New York and London. Magnificent
food and wines, courteous personal
attention from a cabin crew of four.
And there’s no surcharge for this, the
most sumptuous transatlantic travel
ever.
You can book from Australia. See
your 8.0.A.C. Travel Agent. He’ll
help you plan your whole itinerary to
save you time and money.
Information and bookings from all leading Travel Agents and
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. ( 8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia).
trawl... r C
World leader in air
jfo.
BO At
takes goad can of yoa
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL, AND C.A.A.
ABO/AUh
planted winter wheat-crop is set
at “over 900-million bushels
(28 per cent, more than pro-
duced in 1957) at the highest
yield per acre in history and
on a total acreage some 15 per
cent, greater than for 1956-57.”
There are many reasons for
this “enormous production”
“N. Y. Times” notes, but “one
is clearly that greater acreage
has been planted to wheat. And
one reason for the greater acre-
age must be that many large
producers find it not worth
their while, under the new
$3OOO limitation, to refrain
from planting this year as they
did last year when the bonus
for non-production was so
much higher.”
The necessary approach to
the problem, “N. Y. Times”
concludes, is not in “our [U.S.]
patchwork approach to agri-
cultural legislation”:
“We have sooner or later to
lace the fact that farming has
undergone a technological
revolution, that we are getting
more yield for less acreage, that
although the family farm is an
essential and desirable part of
the American scheme of things,
there are too many marginal
farms that have no sociological
value or economic future. The
emphasis will have to shift
from an indiscriminate and
politically oriented price-sup-
port policy to a scientific and
sensible effort to ease the move-
ment away from production of
certain major crops and, in
many cases, away from farming
at all.”
"The Last Fighter"?
First reports of the German
Government’s rejection of the
British Saunders - Roe 177
rocket-jet fighter with con-
sequent repercussions on the
British aircraft industry—
attributed the knock-back to
high-pressure American sales-
manship.
As a sample of this view,
London “News Chronicle”
commented editorially that “it
now appears that Germany
wanted the British Saunders-
Roe 177 fighter in preference to
French and American aircraft.
At this point American firms
stepped forward with com-
pletely unrealistic terms for
payment, and on interest-rates,
which the Germans then
accepted.”
Later comment indicated,
however, that there was rather
more to it than that. Thus
J. D. S. Alan, writing in London
“Evening News,” points out
that “the Germans, like many


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6.
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/18/6 Foreign .... £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
MR. MACMILLAN’S SANG-FROID
When British Prime Minister Macmillan slept during
his brief touchdown at Richmond ( N.S.W .) airport, to
the apparent chagrin of a waiting welcoming-committee,
London “Daily Express” artist Cummings had already
drawn these “unrecorded scenes from Mr. Macmillan’s
life.” Otherwise, the Richmond incident would seem to
have made a likely conclusion to this cartoon-comment.
people in this country [Britain],
rate the prospects [of the S-R
177] very high. But let us
examine some genuine fears
through German eyes”:
“The prototype is not due to
fly until some time in 1958.
How many years would it
take to develop the machine
and put it into squadron
service?
“The R.A.F. either does
not want the machine, or
(more strictly true) is not
allowed to have it by the
Ministry of Defence. The
Royal Navy does not want
enough to make a production-
line worth while.
“So why, the Germans ask,
should we shoulder the risk,
when we can buy machines
which have a proved perform-
ance, even though in the long
run the 177 might be superior?
“It is a terrifying thought
that not only the prosperity of
an area but the future efficiency
of the R.A.F. should turn on
German patronage.”
“Yorkshire Post,” summing-
up various views, comments
that “in some quarters there is
a disposition to blame the
Goverment for the much-
regretted West German decision
not to place orders for the S-R
177.
“British businessmen in
Sportive playmate removes
chair from infant Harold
sang-froid keeps him rigid.
Bonn, for example, have been
quoted as saying that adequate
efforts were not made by
Ministers to sell the aircraft to
the Germans. This is unfair,
Mr. Aubrey Jones himself
visited Bonn in the attempt to
secure acceptance of this
splendid British product.
“It has also been suggested
that the Americans, with offers
of extremely favorable pay-
ment terms and interest-rates,
induced the Germans to reject
the British plane. But it would
be unfair also to attribute our
failure to sell the aircraft to
some high-pressure sales-dodge
on the part of the Americans,
“The Germans themselves
have explained that they
originally intended to rely on
manned fighter-planes through-
out the 1960’5; but that they
recently decided to switch over
to rockets by the mid-1960’5.
In consequence they now want
fighters that will be available
by 1958 and will serve their
needs until the early 1960’5.
The S-R 177 would not be
ready for operation before
1961, and the Germans felt
they must buy planes which
their pilots could fly much
earlier than this.
“The issue rested, therefore,
on the old question of delivery-
dates, a question that proves a
continual bugbear to British
concerns seeking foreign orders
in competition with vast
American undertakings. At
this moment when it is thinking
Young Mac—deep in literature
is run over by a horse bus.
He survives.
about the need for reorganisa-
tion to overcome its difficulties
and seize the new opportunities
that are emerging, our aircraft
industry must plainly keep this
important matter of delivery-
dates urgently in mind. That is
the moral of our sharp dis-
appointment over the S-R 177.”
To which may be added a
footnote from London
“Economist”:
“With the belated cancella-
tion of the small Saunders-
Roe S-R 177, it is now certain
that the English Electric P.i
and the frequently forgotten
Folland Gnat are the last
fighter-aircraft to be built in
this country [Britain] —always
excepting the perennial de
Havilland Vampire trainer
which small air-forces use as
fighter, bomber or strike-air-
craft as circumstances dictate.
“It seems to have been over-
looked that the cancellation of
the S-R 177 is not a retrograde
step so much as a sign of
progress, and material proof of
the Air Ministry’s current belief
that it has become easier and
cheaper to build a primitive
guided-missile than a manned
aircraft for the same role.
“The S-R 177 was designed
much on the lines of the small
Continental fighters whose
function is to climb after their
targets with the speed of a
missile (the S-R 177 would have
flown at least twice the speed
of sound, the French Trident
can climb at that speed). Such
an aircraft might have been
invaluable had it been a year
or so earlier, but the S-R 177
was lagging somewhat behind
schedule, and the guided-
missiles which replace it are
already on the production-
lines.”
Indonesia
The Indonesian Govern-
ment’s assurance that “there
will be no interference with
British firms,” and that, while
U.S. “neutrality” is deplored,
Indonesia is anxious to remain
friends with America —these
things, comments London
“Time and Tide,” present a
familiar situation and “one to
which the West’s response
should be clear”:
“After an appalling record
of corruption and injustice,
exemplified by the Jungschlager
and Schmidt cases, the Javanese
imperialists have now perpe-
trated a large-scale act of theft,
chiefly out of pique because
While on educational cruise,
Mr. Macmillan’s ship sinks —
fortunately he is able to finish
his brandy.
the United Nations would not
immediately hand over a large
new territory to them but
partly according to the usual
pattern of modem nationalism,
for, says the Prime Minister, the
Indonesian Government has
always intended to ‘nationalise’
Dutch - owned shipping - lines
and electricity- and gas-con-
cerns. They would not be
handed back, whatever the out-
come of the present dispute. As
thoroughgoing imperialists, the
Indonesians are also claiming
huge areas of open sea.
“Though the Western nations
have a special reason for
shame about the situation in
Indonesia, the general pattern
is all too familiar. Robbery
by the State from individuals
is the order of the day, and
those nations which still pre-
serve some vestige of moral
dignity in their dealings with
each other and with individual
citizens must make it quite clear
where they stand.
“This is not a matter for
diplomacy and bargaining. It


Missing Friend
ALICE MAY WILLIAMS (born WARD),
formerly of Banksia, near Sydney, and
earlier of near Tingha, district of Bin-
gara, N.S.W., wife of ROBERT PERCY
WILLIAMS, stated to be daughter of
FREDERICK JOHN WARD and
SOPHIA JANE WARD (born HUTCH-
INSON), or anybody knowing the
whereabouts of said ALICE MAY
WILLIAMS, is requested kindly to write
to THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE, O’Connell
Street, Sydney. Possible interest in a
deceased’s estate.
Larges! Australian Coy
Conducting all classes of
Fire,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
is a moral issue not so dissimi-
lar from that which persuades
the citizens of any community
to band together against
thieves rather than bargain for
a share of the swag.”
On the other hand, “New
York Times” suggests editori-
ally that the real trouble in
Indonesia is not the illegal
confiscation of property —
“what hurts most is that the
innocent bystander is made to
bear the brunt of the suffering”:
“In some cases he is a little
Dutch or Eurasian official who
must now plan to get out of the
country and try to find a new
home for his family. But in
many more cases the person
who suffers from Djakarta’s
irresponsibility is the poor
Indonesian who simply can’t
get enough to eat
“President Soekamo and his
regime should have realised
that they could not destroy
inter-island transport in an
archipelago such as Indonesia
without cutting off food-sup-
plies from many areas that had
to rely upon regular shipping.
They should have known that
they could not seal up ware-
houses for rice because they
happened to be Dutch-operated
without pushing the rice price
above the ability of the poor to
pay. It was no more than com-
monsense to recognise that a
paralysis of the Indonesian
economy would hurt the
Dutch, but that it would hurt
the Indonesians even more.
.“So there are reports of food
During Hitler war, bomb falls
on his residence —happily his
reading is not interrupted.
riots, violence, separatism,
armed clashes. We talk about
these problems, usually, in the
broadest generalities, with
references to ‘colonialism,’
‘sovereignty’ and ‘nationalism.’
The people of Indonesia can-
not think in those terms and it
is they who have been made
hungry by their leaders’
obduracy.”
Commonwealth
Migration
A letter (from R. F. Wright
to London “Financial Times”)
prompted by U.K. Oversea
Migration Board comment that
“there was no evidence to sug-
gest that anything in the net
migration movement for 1956
need give cause for concern”:
“Why should the rate of
U.K. emigration ever give us
[Britain] any concern, even on
the scale likely to be disclosed
for 1957?
“If we are to remain the
heart of the Commonwealth let
us remember that the func-
tion of the heart is to pump
life-blood to the extremities of
the body. This steady flow
represents people, capital and
industrial expansion.
“An excessive population,
with its ever - increasing
demands for higher standards,
is probably the main cause of
inflation. It has been pointed
out by the chairman of one
of our leading banks that over-
indulgence at the centre has
been a cause for the decline and
tall of more than one empire.
Even now many industrialists
are beginning to look inwards
at the luscious fruits dangling
from the tree of European
Free Trade rather than keeping
their eyes fixed outwards on
long-term expansion through-
out the Commonwealth.
“The Overseas Migration
Board was appointed ‘to con-
sider and advise the Secretary
of State for Commonwealth
Relations upon specific
proposals for schemes of
emigration from the U.K. to
The future —His entire Cabinet
resigns. He quickly appoints
himself to all Cabinet posts,
and puts this “local trouble”
out of his mind with Mile.
Sagan’s chef d’ceuvre.
other Commonwealth
countries.’
“One would expect, there-
fore, to find in the report some
indication of a migration
policy. Instead we are
presented with a mass of
statistics showing the present
and future trends of migration.
A recommendation that ‘the
U.K. contribution towards the
Australian assisted - passage
scheme should be continued at
the rate of £150,000 per
annum’ (sufficient for 75
people) is hardly indicative of
her Majesty’s Government’s
desire to pursue an active
migration policy. The Aus-
tralian economy bears the main
burden of £4 million a year.
“The excellent White Paper
published in July, 1957, on ‘the
U.K.’s role in Commonwealth
Development’ makes no men-
tion of the fact that a sum of
£2OO million per year is
required in addition to what
has already been provided,
mostly by private investment.
Some bold imaginative scheme
like a Commonwealth bank
would surely provide a
medium for investment to
ensure the co-ordination of the
movement of people, capital
, and industry ; each Common-
wealth country subscribing
according to its means. Such a
bank would easily raise loans
amounting to £2OO million per
year.”
After Two Wars
“If you measure the state of
the Atlantic community today,
12 years after the most destruc-
tive war in history, as against
the state of the Atlantic com-
munity 12 years after World
War I, it Js accurate to report
that Western Europe is better
off than it has been at any time
in many years. On the whole
it is continuing to strengthen
itself.”
Thus Roscoe Drummond,
New York “Herald Tribune”
writer, routing the pessimists
and submitting the following
points in support of his con-
tention :
Twelve years after World
War I:
“The United States was
clinging to an outdated policy
of isolationism.
“America was gripped and
immobilised by a depression
from which the nation was not
to free itself for at least a
decade.
“Factories were closing down
all over Europe, the credit-
system was bankrupt, un-
employment was heading to-
ward three-million in Britain,
five-million in Germany, one-
million in the United States.
“Hitler and Mussolini were
on the march.
“Nine of the 28 States west of
the Soviet Union had turned to
dictatorship in one form or
another.
“The League of Nations was
soon to be extinguished by
neglect.”
Twelve years after World
War II:
“The United States has since
the end of the war maintained
unprecedented productivity and
stability in its economy, with
no serious depression in sight.
“A meri c a ’ s vigorous
economy enabled it to contri-
bute some $40,000 million to
nourish the recovery of the free
world.
“Every nation in Western
Europe has, in part through
United States aid and in part
through its own resourceful
efforts, lifted its industrial
output far above what it was
before World War 11.
“The Communists are weaker
as a political force in Western
Europe than at any time since
the end of the war.
“Authoritarian movements
have won little foothold where
it was most feared that they
might develop.
“While far from complete,
great steps, including the
Council of Europe, the Euro-
pean Payments Union, the Coal
and Steel Community, the new
Common Market and Euratom,
are being taken toward tin
integrated Europe.
“The United States is a
steadfast partner in the Atlantic
alliance and American forces
continue to remain in Europe
as proof that no aggression
could be started without the
United States joining in the
common defence”
Prime Minister Macmillan:
“In a nuclear war neither side
can win. The fact that our
sure defence lies in our ability
to destroy an aggressor as
cruelly as he destroys others is
to many people a horrible idea.
But we dare not let our revul-
sion from the idea of the
H-bomb deprive us of the best
guarantee of peace.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Youth Leadership
As “Ex-Scouter’’ notes (B.
1 /l/’sB}**the youth-centre with
its organised activities and its
essential discipline just doesn’t
appeal to bodgies and widgies.
The types who are prepared to
join in organised sport and the
like are nearly always from
reasonably decent homes and
would give the community little
trouble anyhow, even if left to
their own devices for recreation.
And if the really hard-cases
give youth-centres the go-by,
what purpose are they serving
—apart from providing jobs for
young men and women who
might very well be employed
in other occupations and find a
voluntary outlet for their urge
to mix with and lead
youngsters?
That “youth-leadership” is
developing into just another
means of livelihood is illus-
trated by the appearance of a
Victorian organisation with the
high-sounding title of. the Vic-
torian Institute of Professional
Youth Leadership. Its objects,
according to a press-announce-
ment, include “obtaining for its
members equitable salaries,
sickness- and superannuation-
benefits, annual leave and other
similar provisions.” A speaker
addressing the Victorian Asso-
ciation of Youth Clubs stated
that the new organisation
“wanted to obtain a guarantee
of economic security and a
future for those who made
professional leadership o f
young people a permanent job.”
Nobody will quarrel
with these sentiments provided
the principle is first accepted
that leadership of young people
should be a paid, professional
job. But many, like myself,
will query its necessity or
desirability.
In pre-war years, the pro-
fessional youth-leader was
almost non-existent in this
country ; and the youth of the
community was none the worse
off. Certainly, juvenile delin-
quency was not the problem
that it is today. There were
youth-organisations which did,
and are still doing, a splendid'
job. But such
were run by enthusiastic
volunteers —even in those dark
ages of the 44-hour week.
But the primary leader of
youth was, and still is in
thousands of homes today, the
parent. It’s no use blinking at
the facts: a boy’s natural leader
and companion in his activities
is his father, and if he won’t
take the trouble to interest him-
self in bringing up his offspring
properly, it’s precious little use
asking the State, through paid
professional youth-leaders, sub-
sidised youth-clubs and the
like, to take over what is
properly a parent’s respon-
sibility and privilege.—Wuss-
lean (Vic.).
House or Home
I lately investigated a new
home which had been given
great advertisement as “the
house of ideas.’’ Though it
was filled with all mod. cons.,
I couldn’t help wondering if
our architects have forgotten
that a house must first be a
home.
What good are floor-heating,
installed ventilation and TV in
the kitchen if the essentials of
everyday living are missing?
The kitchen was streamlined
and compact but lacked room
for a baby’s high-chair, or a
spot where the man of the
house could settle while his
wife cooked the evening meal.
Two people in such a kitchen
would be a crowd. Women
yearn for a large airy kitchen,
a place where the kiddies can
eat —my own even has a divan.
We want a home in which
to rear our children. A spare
room for a welcome guest and
a place in which to sew with-
out the house being in a
turmoil. We need a laundry
large enough to house a ready-
for-use ironing-board, unironed
clothes, the family wash and
an airing rack. Patios are fine,
but can they really replace the
old-fashioned veranda which is
always habitable in any
weather?
For months we searched
among the newer houses (within
a reasonable price-limit) for
what we considered a family
home. Our purchase? A 30-
year-old house set in ample
ground for the children to play.
We are gradually adding the
mod. cons., but there’s no
hurry. The house is made for
living, and for children. —
Helen C. Cramer (N.S.W.).
Land-resumption
Property - owners in the
vicinity of Sydney appear never
to be safe from threat of attack
by the N.S.W. Housing Com-
mission or some other instru-
mentality allegedly acting in
the public interest. Not so long
ago the cow-cockies of Minto
were threatened with a satellite
more potent than sputnik.
Fortunately, a combination of
good-sense and quick figuring
of costs ended the scheme.
Then the Housing Commis-
sion struck again. This time
it is attacking property-owners
in the Fairfield area. These
people are fair game at the
moment. They are market-
gardeners and poultryfarmers.
Their activities are vital to the
population of Sydney, who look
to them for essential food-
supplies. At the moment their
activities are limited by the
shortcomings of Sydney’s No-
Water Board. No doubt this
constriction of their output will
be used by the Housing Com-
mission as good reason why
their land 'should be put to
other use.
While this valuable produc*
five i anc [ j s being grabbed for
housing-purposes thousands of
acres of Crown land in the
outer areas of Sydney remain
unused and productive only of
bushfires
. alternative huee tracts
( a , ter lC ’ , uge , “ acts
°. f '“ ner su^ s
npe tor redevelopment Carry-
mg thousands of decaymg
£ uddln f. on f x P‘™B ,lea*f-
h°lda ’ th,s l> ro P e «y has already
all the services and transport-
facilities necessary to provide
for a large population.
Construction of multi-
storied premises with resi-
dences over ground-floor super-
markets would provide for large
populations close to their places
of employment,
Because of present costs of
construction it is unlikely that
private enterprise will redevelop
these sites for residential pur-
poses. At best pressure will be
used to have the areas zoned for
industrial purposes. At the
worst, the existing sub-standard
dwellings will remain until they
fall down on the occupants,
Town-planning as practised
in Sydney has not a lot to
commend it, desirable and
laudable though the principle
may be. Zoning of outer areas
as “green-belt” or “open-space”
“That's stealing!"


j FtuUi in Ifoc
A year ago, or less, the Gulf of Carpentaria
was a coastal backwater of Australia. Today it
can be marked as one of the important sections of
the continental seaboard, because of the bauxite
deposits of world dimensions that have been found
in Cape York Peninsula.
That, I believe, with all it means in
decentralised development, is one of the significant
Australian events of this century.
Along with the extensive Mount Isa lodes of
zinc-lead and copper, and the uranium fields at
Mary Kathleen (Q.) and Rum Jungle (N.T.), this
Cape York discovery puts Northern Australia
among the most notable mineral areas of the world.
But all this will be telling its own story in the
future: a story made more romantic for recalling
that here in these Northern regions, history was
being made for us before Australia was a name.
Along the Gulf shore where the big bauxite
has been found, the first recorded sighting of this
country by a European was made —by William
Jansz, a Dutchman, in 1606. Captain Cook was
at the mouth of the Gulf when lie proclaimed
eastern Australia to the British Crown at Possession
Island in 1770.
And one hundred miles from Weipa, in exact
latitude across the Peninsula, is Cape Weymouth,
where William Bligh touched in 1789, twenty-six
days after the “Bounty” mutineers had set him and
eighteen others adrift in an open boat in the Pacific.
Bligh continued on to Dutch Timor; but it
was there at Cape Weymouth that breakers on the
Great Barrier Reef boomed their message to him
and his companions that they had been delivered
from the sea.
It is well to repoint these flashes from the
past. Jansz in his too-early time; Cook, Bligh;
others latterly like Campbell Miles, the prospector
who sent the first samples from Mount Isa for
assay at Cloncurry in 1923—these are figures of
courage and quest, whose example we might follow.
And we owe them a place in the record of what is
unfolding now.
seems a sure way of drawing
the attentions of the Housing
Commission. Adverse zoning
causes the Valuer-General to
drop his values and along
comes the H.C. Cheap land!
High transport-costs for future
residents don’t matter. Nor are
the problems of extending
services water, sewerage,
drainage, gas and electricity.
The consumers have to meet
the capital costs anyway. Why
worry?
Now and then someone raises
a protest. The most recent was
the State member for Fairfield.
It transpired, however, that he
wasn’t objecting to the bone-
headed activities of the Housing
Commission —only to the fact
that it was his constituency they
were afflicting: they should,
he said, have carried on with
the Minto scheme ; then they
would not have needed to come
to Fairfield. The fact that his
Government was depriving
property - owners of their
property didn’t worry him.
Food-producing land is
shrinking daily in Sydney.
Producers are being driven
further and further away. Every
mile further out adds to trans-
port-costs and increases the cost
of living—and, incidentally,
affects the basic wage. The
answer to the problems posed
lies in co-ordination of activities
of the various planning and
constructing authorities with
the assistance of representa-
tives of the Department of
Agriculture and the producers
themselves.
So long as Ministers and
heads of instrumentalities and
departments compete with each
other for limelight, honor and
glory, the people themselves will
suffer. — Jindivick (N.S.W.).
“Robbery Under Arms”
The further I read into the
Red Page article on the film-
version of Robbery Under
Arms (B. 8/1/’5B), the more
was I pleased. Having dis-
covered that it was written by
Messrs. Schmaier and Simms,
two American Fulbright
students, I was even more
pleased, and not a little sur-
prised, not so much by the
obvious quality of the writing
and the knowledge and research
behind it, as by its very
difference from what one has
been led to expect from over-
seas writers in recent years.
These people come here (or
go elsewhere) on a flying visit
of insufficient duration to write
even a decent article, then turn
around and produce a book.
I may be wrong, but I think the
record was put up by an
American lady who, on return-
ing home after a jour-day visit,
wrote a book on Australia.
This desire to rush madly
into print would seem to stem
more from a desire to make
money (however laudable that
may be) than from wishing to
create something worth while
for the edification of their
fellows.
That these two students are
making the best of their so-
journ here is evidenced by their
ability to criticise the Rank
Organisation thus: “In fact, the
organisation seemed to know
very little about Australia *)n
general.” If their Red Page
article is a fair sample of what
one can expect from Fulbright
scholars, let’s have more of
’em, as it is certainly pleasing
to read some knowledgeable
writing by someone from over-
seas!— Al Pal (N.S.W.).
The Australian Pound
British migrants complain
that the true value of our
pound is nearer to 11s. than 16s.
sterling. Fresh from house-
keeping in the old country, it
does not take them long to
come to that conclusion and
their opinion must be respected.
Another authority, the World
Currency Index, rates the £
Australian as the worst example
of debased currency of any
English-speaking country —56
per cent, depreciation since
1949.
The opportunity for getting
back to something like parity
with sterling was lost in
December, 1949,. and it’s no
good moaning over that. Now,
however, with some signs of a
downward trend in the cost of
living—and a consequent gleam
of hope for those on fixed
incomes, bond-holders and life-
policy owners —cosies a “warn-
ing” that deflation danger must
be watched. A. N. Curphey, of
the Victorian Chamber of
Manufactures, says that care
must be taken against any
moves which might bring about
deflation, which could be just
as insidious and disastrous as
inflation. Mr. Puzey, of the
Australian Industries Develop-
ment Association, also says that
the trend shows that supply
had more than caught up with
demand.
A very large section of the
Australian public wouid
welcome a considerable release
of air from our overinflated
economy; but pressure-groups
are already busy in an effort
to keep our currency in the
“debased”. class. It seems to
suit them very well, and it is


noticeable that, with an inferior
currency, goes the inevitable
concomitant of shoddy and
inferior goods and services.
Thrifty people have suffered
for a long time. Those who
paid into superannuation-funds
and the like over a long work-
ing-life, people who took out
life-policies in their younger
days, investors in Government
bond - issues and similar
securities —all these people
must be dismayed by the
attempts to prevent our pound
from regaining some of its lost
purchasing-power.
The announced aim of the
present Federal Government is
to check and, if possible, reduce
the inflationary pressure ; it is
io be hoped that none of these
pressure-groups will have any
success in their efforts to induce
the Government to depart from
that sound course.
“Deflation Danger Must Be
Watched.” What nonsense!,
The sooner we get some defla-
tion the better. —Ceg (Vic.).
Disappearing Parks
Parramatta, one of the oldest
cities in N.S.W., provides a
striking example of how public
parks are gradually whittled
away. When the great Parra-
matta Park was known as the
Government Domain it con-
sisted of several thousand acres.
The first reduction in size
took place 100 years ago when
large areas were sold, but this
still left a very large area. In
recent years, however, there
has been a steady encroach-
ment.
In one corner of the park a
large memorial-hall is being
built by returned servicemen,
several acres of the park
having been given to them for
this purpose. I entirely approve
of such memorial-halls, but I
can’t see why they should be
erected in public parks.
Now an elaborate swimming-
pool and ice-skating rink are
proposed in another section of
the park. Parramatta badly
needs such a swimming-pool,
but why should a lump of
public park be taken for it?
Another large area has been
given over to a golf-range and
a still-larger area is to be con-
verted into a nine-hole golf-
course. Yet another area near
the bowling-club has been
fenced-off to provide a parking-
area for bowlers.
In the not-too-distant future
Parramatta will have a free
public library, and it’s a monly
that another section of the park
will be grabbed for this.
At this rate there will soon
"How STUPID can they get! Any chump would know
there was no TV when those hats Were worn!"
be little left of this great park.
Full of historic interest, it is
well worth preserving intact.
In it we find part of the old
Government House, now used
as part of The King’s School;
the quaint old bath-house in
which the Governor and his
family took their baths; an
obelisk and a few remaining
stones that mark the site of the
once famous Parramatta
Observatory ; another obelisk
marking the spot where Lady
Mary Fitzroy killed when
the horses in her carriage
bolted ; a splendid Boer War
memorial built with columns
from, the first Parramatta
Court House, and many other
points of interest. — Eureka
(N.S.W.).
Indonesia
Not all the facts are known
about current conditions in
Indonesia. Wrong conclusions
are sometimes drawn from
incomplete information.
The growth and policies of
Communist China present Aus-
tralia’s greatest immediate
problem. Peking is primarily
behind the intense Communist
interest in the riches of
Indonesia. There are about
three - million “overseas”
Chinese engaged in trade and
commerce in Indonesia.
Fragmentation of Indonesia
through internal breakdown
would be a sad thing for the
Indonesian people. For Aus-
0
Iralia it would be gravely and
permanently serious, because it
would leave a vacuum which
the Communists would
promptly try to fill. It seems
obvious that our greatest safe-
guard would be a strong, stable,
non-Communist Indonesia, and
our efforts should help to make
that possible.
We cannot ignore the fact
that with the exception of
Israel, all the Asian nations in
U.N. which voted on West
Irian in December supported
Indonesia—including several of
our Seato allies. The United
States abstained from voting.
The influential Moslem
i j n ' tt u i- • •
leader, Dr. Hatta, who is vigor-
ously opposed to Communism,
has just gone on record as say-
mg that the Australian policy
of support for Dutch retention
of West New Guinea is unwit-
tingly helping the Communists
in Indonesia, by providing fuel
for the fire they are sedulously
fanning. This is an aspect
which we, as a tiny nation,
numerically, of less than 10
million, cannot afford to ignore,
There should, of course, be no
suggestion of relinquishing
principles merely because of
our fear of pressures. But
surely it is time to reconsider
the reasons behind principles
we have adopted, in an effort to
discover if those reasons are
now valid.
One other matter may be
mentioned. It is often claimed
that Soeka'rno was a
“collaborator” with the
Japanese. It should not be
overlooked that the Japanese
did not attack and occupy
Indonesia. They did attack the
Netherlands East Indies, and
they occupied it with an ease
which demonstrated how little
the Dutch had done to assure
its defence. Soekarno had
previously been imprisoned by
the Dutch for his nationalist
activities, and like many of his
countrymen he at first regarded
the Japanese as both fellow-
Asians and as liberators. Like
many Indonesians he welcomed
<he chance of learning the use
of arms from the Japanese, and
eventuallyi like most
Indonesians, he discovered that
the Japanese were cruel and
oppressive tyrants in occupa-
tion. The Japanese are now dis-
liked in Indonesia for their
cruelty in the last two years of
the war. There is no reason to
believe that President Soekarno
does not share this feeling,
Soekarno was impressed by
w hat he saw in the United
states, but there is some
evidence that he was even more
impressed by what he saw and
was told in Moscow and
Peking. It is for the Western
nations, including Australia, to
con vince him and his fellow-
Indonesians that their greatest
hope lies in rejection of the
specious offers of the
Communists. Charles
Meeking (N.S.W.).


European possessions in South-
east Asia. The creation of this
sealed - off area possibly
w as to be a prelude to the
attack on India and a sweep-on
to apply pressures to the
eastern flank of the Middle
Eastern conflict and on the
southern flank of the retreat-
ing Russians.
The British, in fact, mustered
sufficient Naval might to drive
off the . attacks before they
penetrated to Ceylon, to begin
a further phase. The advance
of the Japanese was stopped in
the Bay of Bengal hy British
cruisers and aircraft, and this
has been described by General
Eisenhower himself as the turn-
ing-moment of the war —the
first in which the Japanese were
halted.
Because of this and the Coral
Sea Battle the cordon round the
Indies and New Guinea was
never completed.
The Australian mainland
base was not isolated. A
corridor to New Guinea
through which the swiftly
marshalling Allied forces could
be poured into the vitals of the
Japanese conquered-and-held
area was kept wide open.
Not Definitive
TT is, therefore, inaccurate to
regard Malaya as a definitive
“disaster.” For Australia it
involved the capture of fewer
than a full division of men. It
was, indeed, merely one sec-
tional phase of a far-flung and
piolonged engagement which
did not see finality, and which
cannot be judged by results,
until the day of the Coral Sea
Battle. Then it ended in the
final thwarting of the
Japanese thrust considered as
part of planned world opera-
tions, and opened the way for
the Midway battle in June,
only six months after the well-
prepared Japanese hordes had
launched their attacks against
mere improvised fragments of
Allied power in Malaya.
Midway
/~vN December 8, 1941, the
enemy was pouring into
Malaya. On February 4, it
seemed nothing could stop him.
By April 4, he had been
stopped on the west in the
Bay of Bengal. By the first
week in May his major plan
had been broken in the Coral
Sea, his fortress-wall left
incomplete, the road to his
vitals open. And on June 4, at
Midway, the tide had turned.
As Professor Michael Lewis,
Professor of History at Dart-
mouth Naval College, puts
it in his introduction to
the book which has told the
Japanese side of the battle
( Midway, by Fuchida and
Okumiya):
In these “five fateful minutes”
[between 10.20 and 10.25 a.m. on
June 4. 1942] the crisis came—and
went. Midway was won and lost;
the new dra of air-sea warfare was
born; the grip of the Japanese
was loosened beyond recovery.
Is any section of the vast six-
months battle waged over a sea-
and-land area as great as Asia
and Europe together, by the
new Navies and Air Forces and
Armies of the United States,
by the seasoned and tried men
of the Royal and Royal Aus-
tralian Navies and Air Forces,
and the hard-bitten A.I.F.
brigades and battalions from
Australia direct and from the
Middle East, to be singled-out
and reckoned as a disaster
almost beyond precedent?
Each phase, indeed, had its
part in the pattern of success.
Particularly for the tiny Aus-
tralian Eighth Division Force,
Singapore may have been an
epic of failure ; but it was not
an epic of disaster.
More things count in war
than the loss of divisions. The
power of recovery, the ability
to rebound when tossed against
the wall with force, the ability
of moral force to exhibit itself
against a seemingly victorious
enemy and put a crack in his
confidence, all count in war
when the reserves are behind
and there is time to marshal
them. Sacrifice has its rich
share in victory.
Success or failure, the retreat
and advance cannot be judged
on any one isolated operation
or even on a series of opera-
tions in a particular initial
phase of apparent enemy
ascendancy.
In this case, judged at the
proper moment, Singapore was
certainly not definitive. It was
one of the first eyents to be
responsible for the ultimate
victory. It exhibited the
nature of the Japanese
organisation, tactic, morale and
way of thinking. On the know-
ledge gained in it and out of
what happened during its
apprpach the great weapon of
the Allied Pacific forces was
forged. The Japanese, in fact,
had held a public exhibition of
everything their opponents
wanted to know in order to
defeat them.
The answer to their tactics
was forged so quickly that
within six months of the first
blow the Japanese knew that
the chances were all stacked
against them.
The Japanese historians of
Midway, themselves com-
batants in that fight, say that it
“definitely marked the point”
from which the tide “thence-
forward bore Japan inexorably
toward final capitulation.”
The Malaya and South Sea
ventures may be adjudged by
history as the cardinal mistakes
the Japanese made.
"The ‘Bulletin" Crossword No. 471
Across
I—ls1 —Is low voice publicity or an envoy. (10)
6—Poet writes nothing on sixpence. (4)
B—Furniture of lying ip state. (4)
10—Westminster has one seaman meeting an influential
Algerian. (5)
12—Disorderly funfest in order to loosen up! (9)
14—A bit of spin bowling by Doris Dawn? (8)
15 —The outcome in Ulster. (6)
17 —Oats often damaged a cow-hoof.
(9)
19 — Celebrated when Ted is dead? (5)
20 — Moroccan city headgear men-
tioned by many a conscientious
tram-conductor? (3)
21 — Flora giving liftle globules of
cocaine. (9)
23 — Tradesfolk who make me nice. (6)
24 — Name gear women only! (8)
27 —The period of the infanticipating
ranch named after the Earth
goddess. (9)
30 — It runs by Flinders Street station
when dress equipage and "finery
is put back. (5)
31 — A duck dye. (4)
32 — Slight food is put back. (4)
33 — Some razor-shy chaps think
they’re beautifying; certainly, a
thousand expel pains. (10)
Down
1— An official refusal to allow
Bradman to desert. (7)
2 Beauties who affect the vision of
the police? (5-8)
3 A bit of criction with a West
Indian island. (5)
4 None ship a foundation for
Pelion to be piled upon. (4)
5 Crag upset bosh. (3)
6 Change of a yokel. (3)
7 Signified Edward’s lair? (7)
9 —Swell cash penalty dude. (4, 3,5)
11 —English character who makes no
Mary shriek. (12)
13 —A walk by an army quartered
four weeks before April Fools’
Day. (6, 2,5)
16 —To upset to figure for an Italian
boy. (4)
18 —Duck to employ York’s drain. (4)
20 —Fingers broken by edges. (7)
22—Shingle Jolson’s footwear. (7)
25 — Greek bird in irons. (5)
26 Grainbelt structure represented
in oils. (4)
28 — Rising flittermouse consumption
with a midway label. (3)
29 — Boy who has tear with him
carelessly. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 470


In view of difficult
pastoral conditions at
present graziers are
being advised to give
first consideration to
their breeding flocks.
With less pasture
available farmers
should reduce stock
numbers if they wish
to keep breeding
flocks intact and
ensure satisfactory
lambing next season.
It should also be
borne in mind that
the use of Elastrator
Rubber Rings for
marking and tailing
will cut down losses
and reduce risks of
fly strike and disease.
ROYAL JELLY
Direct from the bees. Fabulously
rich vitalising dietary supplement.
One month’s supply, in capsules.
£5/5/-, or mixed in 6 ounces ot
honey, £5. Technical data 2/o«
Free Leaflet.
R. A. PEACOCK
Apiarist, 11 Carbine Street, 1
KERAXG. VICTORIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
HYDATIDS
'THE entomologist has made
Man startlingly aware that
his supremacy is threatened by
the insect. But Man’s well-
being has been similarly under
attack throughput his whole
existence on earth from another
quarter, and here the picture
is the more disturbing in that
the enemy, in this case, is
within.
Agamemnon may have
thought the Trojan Horse an
original idea, but there is little
doubt that he himself, along
with the rest of humanity, was
a victim of that same idea, now
known to be as old as life
itself; for Man, in common
with all other animals, has never
been free from this enemy
within —the parasite.
The increase in knowledge
and improvements in methods
of hygiene have enabled us to
rid ourselves of some of the
more easily-eradicated members
of this disreputable clan. The
human louse, for example, is
no longer, at least .in civilised
communities, tolerated as it
once was as a Divinely-ordained
affliction, like the Black Death,
against which man’s only armor
was prayer and pious resigna-
tion. And the louse, after all, is
a surface-dweller and we did
not need the microscope to
detect him.
To the ordinary human being
it has always been a slightly
"I've done my stint for the Egg Board—blast 'em!
The rest? of the day's me own."
disgusting aspect of physiology
that man’s alimentary-tract, like
that of all animals, is almost
invariably occupied by a worm.
To the parasitologist, of
course, it is simply a matter-
of-fact, and facfs are not in
themselves disgusting. It’s a
question of the point of view.
Which brings us to the tape-
worm, the Trojan Horse of
Man - and of his faithful
friend, the dog; Echinococcus
granulosus, to give him his full
name, has for long been
accepted by Man as an irrita-
ting nuisance, almost a wry
joke. He is no joke. But it is
only comparatively recently
that the danger of the tape-
worm has been recognised.
It is a fact, for instance, that
people are still dying in Aus-
tralia and in New Zealand —
two countries which pride them-
selves on their high standards of
hygiene and medical knowledge
—at the rate of up to 20’ a year,
because of the parasite.
During the past 64 years, since
records were first kept, 5500
cases of hydatids-disease have
been admitted to public
hospitals in New Zealand, or
an average of approximately 86
cases a year. In Australia, in
1954, the last figures available
at the time of writing, the
number of admittances was 142.
Most significantly, the rates of
both incidence of infestation in
animals and cases of the
disease in Man have shown no
decrease over the past 30 years.
It is a fact, also, thaf the
disease is responsible for an
economic loss to the meat-
industry of both countries of
around a million and a million-
and-a-half pounds a year
respectively.
What are we doing about it?
Actually, quite a lot has been
and is being done at the
Governmental level, despite the
acute lack of funds and* until
recently, lack of organised
research. But hydatids is
peculiar in that the success of
any campaign for its eradica-
tion depends—more so than
with other diseases —far more
on its potential victims than on
Governmental agencies, how-
ever skilful and however active
and efficient they may be.
There are two main reasons
for this: the nature of the
disease and the manner in which
it is spread, and the ignorance
and apathy of the individual.
These are the elements in a
simplified picture: sheep, dogs
and humans. (Other animals
are involved, but not to any
significant extent. It has for
years been considered, for
instance, that the fox and the
cat are hosts of E. granulosus.
This has recently been com-
pletely disproved. On the other
hand, the dingo does fit into the
picture, though only to a
minor degree.)
Where large concentrations
of sheep are -found, there
generally speaking, is the
hydatids problem at its worst.
A modifying factor is climate,
i.e., rainfall and temperature
in combination. The highest
incidence of infestation in Aus-
tralia is in the northern and
southern tablelands of New
South Wales ; in New Zealand,
where the climate is more or
less similar to that of these
areas of N. S. Wales, the
infestation is widespread over
the whole country. And the
incidence-rate is practically the
same in both regions —an
average of 30 p.c. of all sheep
in New Zealand and in the
more highly infested areas of
Australia.
This incidence varies accord-
ing to the age of the sheep. In
young lambs it is usually
negligible, in two-tooth wethers
it is often 10 to 15 per cent.,
while in old sheep it is not far
short of 100 per. This is due
' to the long life-cycle of the
parasite and its slow rate of
growth.
The millions of pounds lost
to the meat-industry repre-
sents the appalling wastage of
the highly nutritious and
valuable foodstuff —the sheep's
liver. •
Techniques for the preven-
tion of the spread of,the disease
are known and, to some extent,
in practice. They have been
responsible, for instance, for
reducing the incidence of the
disease in cities and large towns
to negligible proportions. Yet
it is still a fact that, despite all'
the legislation and regulations
controlling dogs employed at
abattoirs, more than 25 per
cent, of such dogs are infected.
The seriousness of this in
thickly-populated areas, when
such infected dogs are allowed
to walk about the streets where
children play, needs no stress-
ing.
The techniques of control are
efficient, but their effectiveness
depends on the co-operation of
the individual. Of the three
elements in the chain of
the parasite’s hosts, Man is
the guilty link. He alone is
responsible for the continuance
of the hydatid-parasite’s life-
cycle, and thus for the grim
consequences.
This life-cycle begins in the
sheep, is continued in the dog,
and completed in Man. What is


RUSSIAN COMFREY
(IMPORTED WEBSTER STRAIN)
The recent imported WONDER CROP, long lived, deep rooted,
produce huge amount of green fodder very suitable for all farm
animals. Already 10,000 farmers and gardeners have started trials!
After many months of drought our large plantation received good
rains, and we have a huge quantity of planting material available
immediately; planting material will be large root cuttings with a
percentage of crown offsets in each order. RAIL OR POST FREE.
PRICE: 30/- per 13 (minimum), £5/10/- per 50, £lO per 100,
s £45 per 500, £B3 per 1000.
Packed in moist moss, enclosed in cellulose bag, sent in cardboard
box. Will arrive safely anywhere.
With each order we give a 12-page booklet on propagation, culti-
vation and use.
(Discount 10 p.c. to seed and produce merchants)
Order your Russian Comfrey now as late summer and autumn are
* very suitable for planting.
FELIX MERMET,
GEENEEWYN HERBAE FARM (Dept. B),»EO WANNA, 3C, N.S.W.
required to wipe-out the disease
js the breaking of this cycle ;
and the point at which to break
j t is at the intermediate stage—
jn the dog. So long, however,
as dogs are fed raw infected
o ffal at the point of slaughter
the cycle will inevitably con-
tinue.
Despite all the good work of
stock-inspectors, departmental
instructors and meat-inspectors,
and in the face of all the
bulletins and leaflets issued by
agricultural authorities, the
basic weakness continues.
Dogs follow sheep into
infected pastures, dogs are fed
uncooked infected offal on the
stations and in country
slaughter-yards, and children
and adults fondle dogs without
thought of the infection they
are taking and spreading in the
process.
Theoretically, the disease
could be wiped-out, if not over-
night, certainly within a matter
of years. Actually, it is pretty
safe to prophesy that the
situation 10 years hence will be
much the same as now, at
least in Australia, unless the
man most responsible for its
continuance —the un-co-opera-
tive grazier—exchanges his
present negative attitude for a
positive one.
In New Zealand, the Govern-
ment and the New Zealand
Meat Board have at last come
to a realisation of the urgent
necessity to tackle the problem
on a national plane and with
effective financial backing.
A beginning has been made
with the setting-up of a research
organisation, with initial funds
of £130,000 charged with the
task of eradicating the disease,
however long it takes and what-
ever the ultimate cost. A well- s
planned control and educational
plan has been prepared. The
worst feature of it, from the
Australian point of view, is
that the man who is to head
the research organisation is
leaving Sydney University in
order to do so.
The spearhead of any attack
on the problem must inevitably
be a campaign to force the
individual farmer to take the
elementary initial step of either
cooking all slaughteryard offal
before feeding it to dogs, or
disposing of it in some other
and harmless way.
That would seem to be a
simple enough proposition. Yet
with years of depressing failure
to secure even this degree of
co-operation behind them, the
Parasitologists and the veterin-
arians have reached the point
where they “are satisfied that
nothing short of a loss of a part
°f their export-market will
force these short-sighted men
into action. Already the North
American market is closed.
Other vital markets coujd well
follow suit. New Zealand meat
authorities are aware of the
danger. Their fears might well
be ours, too.
PETER MIDDLETON.
More Protein
“Rex”: Improved protein-
percentages of up to two per
cent, in Victoria’s wheat-sample
should help to quieten the
almost perennial cry of “not
good enough” from a section of
the market.
The season has had some-
thing to do with it by retaining
more nitrogen in the soil than
in 1956, when a lot was
washed-out by cold, wet
weather, and by reducing the
amount of grain per acre which
had to share the available
nitrogen.
More legumes, such as
clovers and medics on farms,
also had a big influence on the
extra amount of nitrogen avail-
able to help crops to make
protein. In some cases
paddocks had been out to
leguminous pasture for up to
17 years before being sown
back to wheat.
But a most significant factor
is the amount of better-quality
wheats being grown these days
in Victoria, as well as other
States —notably South Aus-
tralia, where quality grain is a
real fetish with the experts.
Advent of the new Victorian
variety, Beacon —the State’s
best-yet combination of yield
and quality—gives promise for
the future.
With legumes playing such a
big part in wheat-quality, some
growers have wondered
whether it really matters much
which variety is sown, so long
as the soil is healthy. How-
ever, statistical studies by Sims
and Mullaly, of the Victorian
Department of Agriculture,
show that the protein-status of
varieties is still important. So
it’s up to the breeders to pro-
duce new and better varieties,
and for farmers to grow them.
Milk Record
“F.”: Grafton Marquisette,
an A.I.S. cow at Grafton
Experiment Farm, has
established an N. S. Wales
record for lifetime milk-produc-
tion (any breed). On completion
ol the third recording of her
current lactation she had pro-
duced a total of 120,5271 b.
milk, 44321 b. butterfat, average
test of 3.57 per cent. Her
latest calf was born on
September 1, when she was
aged 16 years 10 months.
The previous record-holder
was another A. 1.5., owned by
the Dudgeons of Albion Park.
This cow produced 119,6411 b.
milk, 45091 b. butterfat, 3.8 per
cent, test, in nine lactations.
Grafton Marquisette’s
individual lactations haven’t
been spectacular. Summing-up,
D. of A. dairy-expert I. W.
Scott said that Grafton Mar-
quisette’s performances
“demonstrate that longevity
and consistent production add-
up to far more than a short life
and a few high tests that can-
not be sustained.”
Grafton Marquisette’s
sire was Fairholme Mollison,
bred by H. Grey, of Alstonville.
He was the sire of one elite
register-of-merit cow, two life-
time register -of - merit
daughters, and of eight dams
with register - of - merit
daughters ; his full-sister, Fair-
holme Molly IV, was an elite
register-of-merit cow, with a
lifetime production of
104,3131 b. milk, 37811 b. butter-
fat, 3.62 per cent, test in 10
lactations. Grafton Marqui-
sette’s dam was Cowra Chiffon
VI, bred mainly from Dar-
balara blood, with a touch of
the Cosey Camp strain.
Grazing Calves
“Big Billy”: Tests at
Ruakura Research Station
(N.Z.) indicate that calves
from eight to 10 weeks old
digest high-quality pasture as
efficiently as adult cows.
The experiments also showed
that, for their size, the calves
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(16/1/’58)
Heavy rains should occur on the north coast, Peninsula
and Gulf country during February, but the remainder f>f
Queensland will probably have only light to moderate,
patchy rains. Further heavy rains and flooding are indi*
cated in March on the north coast and Peninsula; patchy
elsewhere.
Moderate, patchy rains should 'occur on the coast of
N.S.W. during February, with poor rainfall over the balance
of the State. Moderate rains, mainly below normal, are
indicated on the coast, northern and central tablelands,
and part of the central west during March, but otherwise
general rains are unlikely until June.
Poor rainfall is indicated for Victoria during February,
apart from moderate rains in part of the western division
and light to moderate, patchy rains in the central division.
General rains are unlikely in May.
Rainfall will probably be poor ill most of South Aus-
tralia during February, March and April, with general rains
in May.
Moderate rain likely in' the Northern Kimberleys of
Western Australia during February, with the balance of the
State receiving poor rainfall. However, good rains should
occur in many areas during March.
LENNOX WALKER.


Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
1
Os
.CM-
*OHt
b 57.
jf
3b‘-6£dt
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: C.P.O. Box 5583,
SYDNEY • C.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE «
C.P.O. Box 712 F, ADELAIDE 0 G.P.O. Box 758 K,
BRISBANE 0 Box H. 588, C.P.0., PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
digest and retain more minerals
than cows, and can digest
crude-fibre with adult efficiency
when the pasture is of good
quality.
Previously, it was believed
that cellulose, the? most
digestible part of crude-fibre,
was digested only in animals
with a fully developed and
fully working rumen.
At Ruakura it was
established that even calves
three weeks old can digest
cellulose.
The results of the trials
emphasise the importance of
fresh, succulent pasture for
young calves. Rotationally
grazed on such feed, calves
have been successfully weaned
at eight weeks.
It is no less important to
provide young, fresh pasture
for calves than it is to provide
them with their daily ration of
milk. A form of rotational
grazing of spring-pastures will
provide calves with suitable
green-feed. Later, rationed
grazing of silage-aftermath or
of clover-dominant pastures
can give them good grazing
further into the summer.
"Ducks and Rice"
“Paddy Rice”: C.5.1.R.0. is
an admirable institution, but
nothing will induce me to
accept H. J. Frith’s airy
dismissal of the duck problem
to ricegrowers as reported by
“Berde” (B. 15 /1 / ’5B). Ducks
do most damage to rice when
and before it germinates, there-
fore “Berde’s” suggestion that
ricegrowers should keep the
rice “healthy and free of
weeds” doesn’t enter the matter.
Germination of rice and,
indeed, all plants, including
such hardy, germinating
wonders as barnyard, is so
affected by “puddling” by
ducks as to leave large, barren,
scaldlike patches, of as much
as half an acre.
The impression that ducks
descend on the large' lake-like
stretches of rice-bays when they
are full of water is erroneous.
Ducks shun open, deep, water
but concentrate on the edges
and shallows, when the first and
second waterings are being
drained. Ducks feed in slurry,
filtering the edible matter
through the edges of their
beaks. The by-products of this
filtration, when puddled into
the soil, cause the surface to
harden and sterilise the soil’s
germinating capacity.
Rice is usually sown on the
surface, and “Berde” would
have us believe that when the
ducks encounter a juicy, half-
germinated rice-seed in their
feeding they will spit it out.
I have yet to shoot a grey-
teal that has been feeding in a
rice-paddock at germinating-
time- that has not had a gizzard
full of rice-seed. Once ducks
get a hole eaten in a crop they
will congregate there, enlarging
its perimeter until its extent is
measured in acres.
Grading of the paddock is
Frith’s all-powerful antidote.
He implies that it is the
farmer’s fault if a depression is
left t for the congregation of
ducks. Perhaps he will make
available to the C.5.1.R.0. his
technique for treating the local
(Murrumbidgee Irrigation
Area) grey gilgai country so
that it has the excellent
quality of perfect flatness.
Apropos the above. Here is
a summary of Frith’s findings,
as printed in “Rural Research
in C.5.1.R.0.” (December,
1957), an official C.5.1.R.0.
publication.
“Ever since the first rice was
planted in New South Wales in
1924, some rice-growers have
complained that wild-ducks
were damaging their crops.
Other farmers, however, have
contended that the birds do
not cause appreciable damage..
“In 1952 the Irrigation
Research and Extension Com-
mittee asked C.5.1.R.0. to
study the habits of ducks in
the irrigation areas. The in-
vestigations were conducted by
Mr. H. J. Frith, of the
C.5.1.R.0. Wildlife Survey Sec-
tion, who has also completed
recently a more general, long-
term study of the breeding
habits, food-preferences, and
movement - patterns of the
various species of wild-duck in
the interior of New South
Wales.
“The erratic semi - arid
climate of inland Australia has
led to the development of
irregular movement - patterns
and breeding-seasons. While
somi species of wild-duck are
sedentary and have quite
regular breeding-seasons, others
are completely nomadic and
breed whenever and wherever
conditions are suitable.
“As a result, damage to rice
varies greatly from season to
season. It is only appreciable
in those years when river-floods
result in a very great increase
in the number of ducks in the
irrigation-areas. Thus, it should
be possible to forecast the
seasons in which damage is
likely, in sufficient time to allow
protective action to be organ-
ised.
“The four most important
species found were the river-
ducks —grey-teal, black-duck,
and white-eyed duck—and the
wood-duck. No other ducks
were of more than chance
occurrence in the rice-fields.
Bald-coots suddenly appeared
in large numbers in 1957 and
these birds may form the sub-
ject of a future study.
“But what is the extent of the
damage? To answer this ques-
tion examinations were" made
of the gizzard-contents of many
birds. Diet varied greatly from


for maximum control of
in sheep of all ages
First of the liquid phenothia-
zine drenches . . . tested and
checked over many years’
Australia-wide use... Elliotts
PHENZEEN PLUS en-
sures the fullest effective
control, the greatest con-
venience in drenching,
that can be achieved with
phenothiazine.
DRENCH WITH
If you prefer
’POWDER . . . order
Elliotts PHENZEEN (Pheno-
thiazine Powder) in the
same fine particle size, sup-
plied in cans, ready-to-mix.
ELLIOTTS RURAL LABORATORIES
A DIVISION OF D H A (CHEMICALS) PTY LIMITED
district to district. For example,
grey-teal on the Murrumbidgee
River itself consumed no rice
at all, but a few miles away, in
-JTuckerbil Swamp in the heart
of the rice-growing area, rice
comprised up to 70 per cent,
of their diet during a short
period in mid-December.
“Nevertheless, the vast
majority of the three important
species of river-duck in the
irrigation-areas does not visit
the rice-fields ; and for those
that do, weed-seeds are a more
important item of food than
the rice itself. On the whole,
rice is of negligible importance
in the diet of the river-ducks.
As far as the wood-duck is
concerned, birds of this species
very rarely eat the grain, con-
fining their attention to the
young plants. The effect of this
activity depends entirely on the
length of time it is allowed to
continue. Numerous instances
were seen where young crops
lecovered and showed no signs
of damage after having been
grazed down to the ground for
two or three nights. But if the
wood-ducks are allowed to feed
unmolested for a long time the
crop may not recover.
“The principal complaint of
the growers, however, is that
feeding birds do great damage
to the crop by puddling the soil
and by their other activities.
Careful observations were made
to assess the validity of this
claim. In no instance was the
germination of the rice-seed
noticeably affected by a duck-
flock feeding for one or two
nights. But if the birds were
allowed to roost in the field for
several days a small area could
be destroyed or visibly
decreased in yield.
“Greater damage is likely to
result when ducks are attracted
to the fields by weeds or patchy
growth. Well-grown crops are
rarely visited. Thus, the best
way to reduce the risk of
damage from ducks is by
greater attention to the grading
of the seedbed and to crop-
husbandry generally.
“Indiscriminate shobting by
visitors in and around the
irrigation-areas merely tends to
drive the birds on to the rice-
fields, but timely patrolling and
shooting in the rice-fields
themselves is of considerable
yalue.”
Sorghum Trials
“F.”: The Queensland
Department of Agriculture
intends to investigate the merits
of hybrid grain-sorghum.
Breeding-material has been
brought to Queensland from
the United States by W. J. S.
Sloan, Director of Agriculture
in the department, who has
been visiting agricultural parts
of the U.S. for six months.
Hybrid grain-sorghum has
lifted yields to the acre by more
than 20 per cent, in the U.S.
But bringing the breeding-
material to Queensland is only
a start. It remains for Queens-
land plantbreeders to study it
and to work out the crosses
best suited to conditions here.
The whole project will
involve several years’ work in
quarantine and on testing-
stations before locally-adapted
hybrid grain-sorghum will be
available to Queensland
farmers.
Mr. Sloan also brought back
seed of new varieties of soy-
beans developed in the U.S.
These will be tested initially in
the Kingaroy district.
Grain Moisture
“Clare”: It’s a bit hard to
follow the arguments of wheat-
growers who complain when
their grain is knocked-back at
the silo because it has more
than the allowable 11| per cent,
cf moisture.
The fact of the matter is that
any more moisture than this
causes the grain to deteriorate
in storage. No industry can
afford to waste its hard-won
product like this, particularly
when average sales per bushel
(gross) influence how much
each grower is paid.
Moisture-meters being used
this year are a big improvement
over the old, delaying method
of sending samples to city
laboratories for report.
Growers’ representatives are
doing a good job by checking-
up to see that the meter’s are
being used to advantage.
Hormone "Hazards"
Gordon Naylor, of the Boots
Pure Drug concern, on the
probability of harm to humans
from residues of the hormone
hexcestrol in Gromax-treated
beef and lamb:
A man would have to eat from six
to 10 hundredweight of meat to
obtain the equivalent of only one
daily dose of hexcestrol, which is
used by the medical profession as
well as in the rural field.
In our own experimental work, an
overdose of 100 milligrams of the
drug was implanted into steers.
Research analysis revealed that this
left a residue of only 1-in-140-
million parts in the muscle-tissue of
the slaughtered animal, equivalent to
one milligram in over 3001 b. of flesh.
With our recommended dose the
percentage of drug residue Is even
more minute.
Hormones are present in mother’s
milk, and the average level of
hormones in dairy-milk is known to
be many times that to be found in
meat from treated steers.
Hexcestrol is the safest known
drug for this treatment, and the
technique of implanting is itself the
safest method of administration.
Where stock finished under feedlot
conditions in America are fed these
hormone-drugs, they consume many
times the dose given by our recom-
mended implantation.
Official medical authorities went
into many factors before they
approved the use of the drug for
this purpose, and a whole series of
bxoassay tests of muscle, fat, liver
and kidney from bullocks receiving
this hormone showed no oestrogenic
activity in the extracts.
Such hazards just don’t exist, and
it is ludicrous to suggest they do.
Farm Hints
“Humphrey”: It’s a mistake
to mate roosters before they are
fully matured. Cockerels show-
ing early signs of sexual
maturity may at first give good
results, but later they will
either fail to fertilise the eggs,
or fertilisation will be so weak
that the germs will die in the
early stages of incubation.
Although the bird may reach
sexual maturity at an early age
it should not be used for such
purposes until physical
maturity is attained. This,
generally, is not before the bird
is 10 months old.
“Cock-o’-the-walk”: Where
foxes are a menace to poultry
on open range, an electric-fence
will protect them. If a double
wire is used the foxes shy clear
of it. Not only that, the fence
will confine the poultry.
“Sundowner”: Tall varieties
of tomato should be tied to
stakes to avoid damage by wind
when Ift. to Ift; 6in. tall. Care-
less tying can also result in
damage. As there are two
extremes here, between tying
too loosely and too tightly, an
elastic material such as an old
stocking is ideal. Pruning the
tall varieties will enable the
plant to be tied more effectively,
and will also increase the size
of the fruit.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
Australia Day was the highlight of the
week. It was celebrated with various
get-togethers by appropriate societies such
as the Women Pioneers’ Club and the
Overseas League (which sounds inappro-
priate, but is not). A civic reception was
held, a march, a salute and a pageant
staged by the Apex Club of Mosman-
North Sydney. Australians were ex-
horted to hold gatherings in private
homes and toast “The Day We Cele-
brate,” but too many people were busy
celebrating at beach-resorts to remember
to do so. Still, the exhortations were
appropriate and may in time be success-
ful. Most people living here are glad
to be doing so. A Gallup-poll taken at
any time would show that few wish to
live elsewhere. This may in some cases
be due to ignorance and provincialism,
but whatever the cause, it must be pleas-
ing to the shade of Governor Phillip to
know that the majority of the 10,000,000
nation which has grown out of his 1024
charges are glad that he landed at Farm
Cove and started the Australian nation
going.
ft ft ft
Something to look forward to is the civic
reception to be held on February 4 for
British P.M. Harold Macmillan and Lady
Dorothy Macmillan —a morning “do,”
which is more convenient though not so
spectacular. Of course, the visit of the
Queen Mother is a major event to think
about —she set out this week. By the way,
it is said that the Queen and Prince
Philip are considering taking Prince
Charles away from Cheam School because
of the publicity his presence there is
exciting. There is general feeling that the
Royal Family is getting very restive about
the invasion of its privacy by constant
newspaper-snooping.
ft ft ft
The snippet-news of the week included
the mention of striped toothpaste now
available in some country or other, pro-
bably America. In the neck of the tube
is a perforated cap containing red color-
ing, and when the tube is squeezed out
comes the paste in red and white stripes.
Wonderful for getting children to clean
their teeth, also for getting babies to
squeeze all the toothpaste over the bath-
room-floor.
# V V
One of the talking-topics of the week
was the photograph of Princess Caroline
of Monaco, who celebrated her first
birthday. A dear little pet, but not like
her beauteous mother —the image of her
daddy. Another was the upswept hair-do
of Princess Alexandra. Then there was
the “gay atmosphere” at the South Pole
and the “warm handshake” from Dr.
Fuchs to Sir Edmund Hillary (“Hullo,
Bunny! ” “Glad to see you, Ed.”) Some-
how, exploring doesn’t seem the same as
it did in the old days.
A recent Brisbane visitor to Sydney,
Helen Gaha, left for America in the
Orcades on Friday. Her intention is to
go on from U.S. to England, where she
will study pianoforte at the Royal
Academy of Music. The daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. N. O. Gaha, of Mt. Morgan
(Q.), Helen was recently successful in the
Fellowship Examination in pianoforte in
Brisbane. While in Sydney she stayed
with Mrs. G. Walker, of Coogee. Photo
by Norton Trevaire.
The galloping success of “The Summer
of the Seventeenth Doll” seems to have
been pulled-up short with its reception
in New York, its chief handicap being,
it seems, “the language barrier.” The
critics simply couldn’t understand what
the players were saying. It would have
been all right, apparently, had it been
in a completely foreign language, say,
Latvian or Chinese ; but it was supposed
to be English and it wasn’t, so the
audience was bemused. It seems odd,
though. We can understand American
plays or films, thick with slang and
strange idiom, so why does this not work
both ways?
Still, it is a little difficult even for Aus-
tralians to understand what is being said
sometimes. Here is a conversation be-
tween two teenagers overheard recently:
“I say, Jean. I think your fringe is
terrific.”
“How do you mean, ‘terrific’? Do you
mean terrific terrific, or terrific terrible?”
ft ft ft
Advice to new doctors who graduated
this week at the University’s conferring
of degrees came from Chancellor Sir
Charles Bickerton Blackburn. “However
brimful of science you are,” he said,
“never forget that you are dealing with
human beings,” and he further advised
them to explain to their patients, in so
far as they could, what the diagnosis was
and what the treatment was intended to
accomplish. All the lay people present in
the Great Hall recorded a silent “And so
say all of us.” There’s nothing more
annoying than the mysterious doctor who
won’t disclose any information at all.
ft ft ft
The “clothes-peg line” is the latest
horror to be dreamed-up by the fashion-
designers (it’s something that Lon
Chaney never thought of). Italian de-
signers have introduced it, along with
the “wooden look,” which is achieved
by the use of stiff materials. The clothes-
peg to be thus honored is not any of the
gay little colored ones that sit like butter-
flies on the clothes-line, but the stodgy
old-fashioned one with hard round head
and straight up-and-down line. It is
said that the new fashion, if Paris endorses
the Italian suggestion, will demand pro-
truding hip-bones, flattened chests and
neat knees. (“Men always will pick-out
a girl whose bones stick-out.”) One hint
is hereby handed free to all wise women.
If this fashion really takes on in 1958
(and it probably will), don’t get rid of
your dresses when the fashion changes.
They will be very valuable 20 years later
when nieces and daughters are looking
for something to make a comic-party
idea.
ft ft ft
“Voices from the Past,” a 8.8. C. antho-
logy of recordings made by poets and
writers over the past 60 years, which is to
be broadcast from the A.B.C. beginning
next Friday, should prove fascinating
listening. The library from which the
selection has been made includes not only
voices of famous people, but recordings
of folk-music, dialects and thousands of
different sounds, ranging from the noise
made by an unhatched chick to the
explosion of an atom-bomb!
In the first programme listeners will
hear one of the oldest recordings in the
library l —that of Tennyson reciting his
“Charge of the Light Brigade,” which
shows how he declaimed poetry in a grand
and sonorous manner. The vigorous voice
of Rudyard Kipling will also be heard,
and other voices belong to Robert
Service, Sir Henry Newbolt, John Drink-
water and Hilaire Belloc.
CANBERRA
The Governor-General and Lady Slim
entertained delegates of the Citizenship
Convention at a late-afternoon reception
at Government House. Lady Slim chose
an elegant cocktail-frock in Chartreuse
silk-brocade to receive the guests with
his Excellency. Mr. A. Townley,


Minister for Immigration, also received
guests introduced to their Excellencies
by the Commonwealth co-ordinator of
the Good Neighbor Movement, Mr. J. T.
Massey. The 300 guests were served
champagne on the sunlit terraces, and,
adding to the gay yet dignified atmos-
phere, the Royal Military College band
played background music on the lawns.
☆ ☆ *
Following the official opening by the
Prime Minister, Mr. Menzies, of the Ninth
Annual Citizenship Convention at the
flag-bedecked Albert Hall, a reception was
given by the Minister for Immigration,
Mr. Athol Townley, in the courtyard of
Parliament House. The Prime Minister
and Dame Pattie Menzies received the
guests with Mr. Townley ; Dame Pattie
wore a small lilac hat with her smart
black silk suit. Sir Arthur Fadden was
among the throng of diplomats, public
servants and Canberra citizens invited to
meet the 250 delegates.
☆ ☆ ☆
The High Commissioner for India and
Mrs. Padmini Menon received the guests
at a late-afternoon reception given at their
residence, “Shanti Kutir,” in Mugga Way.
to introduce Mrs. Lakshmi Menon.
Attractive Mrs. Lakshmi Menon is
Deputy Minister for External Affairs in
the Indian Government, and on her Aus-
tralian visit is deputising for Prime
Minister Nehru. Mrs. Menon converses
brilliantly on women in political life in
her country ; a lawyer by profession, she
has represented India at the U.N.
General Assembly, and is founder-
president of an all-India women’s asso-
ciation which has a membership of 60,000.
Guests at this reception included the dean
of the diplomatic corps, Dr. Walther
Hess, with his wife and daughter.
Another visitor noted was Lord Talbot de
Malahide, of Malahide Castle, Co. Dublin
—in Canberra for a few days on his way
to his properties in Northern Tasmania.
MELBOURNE
All city traffic was suspended during
the flag-raising ceremony at the Town
Hall. The 6th Battalion Royal Melbourne
Regiment marched, headed by its band.
Lord Mayor Thomas introduced Minister
for Labor Reid (who represented the
Premier). When the Minister had con-
cluded his speech, in which he paid tribute
to the courage of the first pioneers,
Warrant-Officer J. Morrison, D.C.M.,
raised the flag and the band played the
National Anthem. At Moonee Valley,
racing crowds heard Sir Norman Martin
give a short address and then saw the
Australian flag raised to the masthead.
☆ * *
Australia Day celebrations began with
a luncheon at the Royale Ballroom at
which the Governor and Lady Brooks
were present. Five hundred guests heard
the Canadian High Commissioner (Mr.
T. W. L. McDermot) propose the toast
to Australia, and the Governor’s reply.
Tiny Australian flags were set on every
table, with clusters of large balloons
in patriotic colors hung from the ceiling.
Lady Brooks wore with her smoke-blue
and rose-pink printed-silk frock a wide-
brimmed white straw sou’-wester hat.
Lady Martin, wife of Sir Norman.
Martin (chairman of the Australia Day
Council), chose a white-and-black-spotted.
silk frock and small coral-pink straw
pillbox-hat.
The official party included the Arch-
bishop of Melbourne, the Rt. Rev. Dr.
Woods, and Mrs. Woods ; Sir Owen and
Lady Dixon ; Sir Arthur Warner (repre-
senting the Premier) and Lady Warner ;
Sir Herbert and Lady Hyland ; the Lord
Mayor (Cr. F. W. Thomas); Lieut.-
General Sir Henry Wells and Lady Wells ;
and Italian Consul-General the Marchese
Serafini and the Marchesa Serafina.
A lovely wide-skirted frock of caramel-
tinted-and-white cotton-brocade was
worn by Mrs. Ray Joseph with a wide
black-straw hat. Others noted were Mr.
and Mrs. L. J. Dooling, Mr. and Mrs.
Gray Staley, Mr. and Mrs. George
Griffith, Dr. and Mrs. A. Aitken and
Cr. and Mrs. Maurice Nathan.
Now through her second-year Arts at
Melbourne University, Angela Wawn is
on her way to the U.S. and Canada (for
a 12-weeks ’ holiday) with her mother,
Mrs. Keith Allen, of Port sea. Angela is
engaged to Stanley Grant, a Tasmanian
now working in Melbourne.
Many interesting activities have been
planned for the Moomba festival, which
will be held from March 7 to March
16, and which will be officially opened
on March 8 by the Governor, Sir Dallas
Brooks, during the Henley Regatta.. There
will be ballet, opera, music and concerts
on the open-air stage in the Alexandra
Gardens; the Treasury Gardens will
provide a quiet setting for an art exhibi-
tion ; the National Gallery will arrange
a special exhibition in keeping with the
spirit of Moomba; Australian authors
will give short talks at the Australian
Book Fair in the Lower Town Hall; at
the Olympic Pool Coleridge Taylor’s
magnificent spectacle “Hiawatha” will be
staged, with the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra and a choir of 200 combining.
This year’s festival will break new
ground by providing a ballerina-scholar-
ship ; the winner of the competition may
pursue her studies either in Australia or
overseas. “Moomba Bunyip” will make
its debut in the city streets on the holiday
of March 10, and this mythical animal
will be followed by a colorful parade of
gaily-decorated floats. The Queen of
Moomba and her eight princesses will
be seen on one specially decorated float.
* ☆ ☆
In conjunction with the Bureau of
News and Information and the Depart-
ment of the Interior the Moomba Festival
Committee has published a handsomely-
bound and pictorially attractive souvenir-
album which covers Melbourne’s com-
mercial, sporting and cultural life; it
also includes scenes from former
Moomba pageants. Australia’s official
representatives abroad will make the
formal presentation of these albums to
more than 20 of the world’s “festival
cities,” with invitations to attend this
year’s Moomba.
☆ * ☆
Mrs. Lakshmi Menon, India’s Deputy
Minister for External Affairs, addressed
a large gathering of representatives of
women’s organisations at the Town Hall.
Wearing a gold-colored sari and white
handspun-cotton shoulder-shawl, this
handsome woman, who uses her graceful
hands to stress a point, spoke of the work
of the All India Women’s Conference,
of which she is president and one of the
founders. The A.I.W.C. had its
beginning at a small meeting in Poona in
the 1920’5, when a group of women
demanded educational-reform for Indian
women. The conference is mainly
responsible for all major reforms in the
political status of women, and improve-
ment in the conditions under which they
live.
There are now 27 women members of
Parliament in the Lower House, 20 in the
Upper House and 200 in India’s various
State Legislatures.
Mrs. Menon was welcomed by the
Lady Mayoress (Mrs. F. W. Thomas);
the meeting was presided over by Mrs.
R. T. Breen, president of the National
Council of Women of Victoria. Also on
the official dais were Mrs. Henry Bolte
and Mrs. R. G. Casey. In the audience
were Dame Mary Daly, Lady F>r
Herbert Brookes, Lady Pato
Smart, Mrs. T. C. Rento ;
visitor Mrs. Harrison I
Michaelis, Mrs. John I
Claude Couchman, Lady
Myra Roper, Miss Sybil Irv ig an i
Jane Muntz.


Big Trailer
By ROGER V. CARR
THE heavily-laden semi-
trailer climbed slowly up
the long rise, engine roar-
ing away ahead of the
complaining diff., bonnet jacked
open with a piece of wood,
gulping in great draughts of the
hot, still air.
The gums along the road
bowed in calm resignation to
the fiery heat, dappling the
l oad with their shade.
Ern leaned over the wheel,
the pedal pushed to the floor,
listening to the engine. The top
of the hill seemed to move
away from him, dancing with
transparent heat.
The tooting horn behind
made no impression on him. A
car pulled alongside, the driver
scowling up towards the cabin.
He gave the wheel a twist
and the big truck moved oyer
towards the small car, which
shot ahead. He gave it a lazy
grin and relapsed into his
thoughts.
The top of the hill was under
him now, the truck beginning
to pick up speed. He idly
flicked the lever out of gear.
The hill dropped away before
him, a mile of smooth
bitumen, gently winding, the
sudden curve at the bottom
across the narrow bridge.
The needle was creeping up
towards the twenty-mark now ;
he would have to throw her
into gear if he wanted much
control over the hurtling tons
behind him.
His hand moved towards the
lever.
“I wonder,” he murmured,
glancing down the hill, “I
wonder if I’m game.”
He pulled his hand away.
TVTOW he was alive, the wheel
in his hands had a mean-
ing ; a twist to the right and
she would slither right across
the road, a twist to the left and
he would be making a new
road through the bush along
the side of the fence.
Ern patted the air-brake with
his foot, but that made the
wheels skid ; the only control
he had now was in the big
v/heel clutched in his hands.
Away off to the left and
down the hill he saw the tiny
two-horse team stop, and the
toy man at the reins swing
round in his direction.
“Listen to them tyres hum,”
he said in the direction of the
toy man and his team.
The bloke must realise he
was out of gear. He revved the
engine and the man started
waving him to slow down.
“Not likely, son,” he said.
The needle was touching the
eighty-mark now. Glancing at
it, he let out a low yvhistle.
“Easy, old girl,” he said,
tapping the air-brake.
He felt the tray slew across
the road, and jerked his foot
away. An angry growl
sounded behind him. He
couldn’t make out what it was,
thinking he must have stripped
something.
The growl grew louder and
tailed off in a long scream. His
rear-vision mirror was full of
a long powder-blue car.
“Hell,” he said. “Cops!”
/'ANE hand came off the wheel
and shot out the window,
waving them back. He
watched them in the mirror,
siowing-down and pulling in (
behind him.
He tapped the air-brake
again and the big trailer moved
easily across the road.
“That’ll give them something
to think about,” he muttered
into the wheel.
He was nearer the man who
had been driving the horses
now. The man was running
towards the highway, still
waving a slow-down warning.
A big goanna slithered on to
the road in front, saw the open-
mouthed monster bearing down
upon him and made to run.
Ern went to swing the truck
around him, looked at the
needle, and kept right on. The
wheel jerked slightly in his
hands, and the goanna had lost
his race.
The road was empty, only
the bridge and its right-hand
turn to worry about now. He
pulled the big truck to the
right-hand side of the road,
and came into the corner.
The big wheel in his hands
fought him as he swung it
over, the tyres trying to stay
on their straight course. He
could feel them as they
strained against the rim, squeal-
ing. The long trailer went
from one side of the road to
the other, sliding as if it were
on ice ; the cabin jerked from
side to side with its crazy
swinging.
Straight before him loomed
the edge of the road, coming
towards him at screaming
speed. The wheel was hard
over, and slowly the truck came
away, rocketing across the
bridge.
He let go the wheel and it
came spinning back to straight.
Ern eased her on to the
bitumen, dropped his foot hard
on to the accelerator and
dragged the lever into top,
bringing her slowly to a stop
on the shoulder of the road.
The blue police-car shot past
and pulled up in front of him.
"CRN dived his hand under the
•*-' seat and came up with the
heavy spanner he always kept
handy.
He swung out of the door
and raced to the back of the
trailer. Leaning underneath he
smacked the spanner hard
against a metal pipe.
There was a hissing of
escaping air.
The man who had been
waving him to stop was stand-
ing up by the bridge. Even from
where he was Ern could see the
long black marks that seemed
to pull into the curve at the
last moment.
It had been close.
The bloke up there was
shaking his head in disbelief.
He saw Ern looking at him and
drew his hand across his fore-
head. Ern grinned at him.
There was a pounding of feet
along the side of the trailer.
“What the hell were you try-
ing to do?” yelled a cop as he
came running up. “You were
hitting over eighty coming
down that hill.”
Ern leant up against the load
and pulled out his tobacco-
pouch.
“Can’t you hear that?” he
asked, nodding towards where
the sound of the hissing air
came from. “Done me air-
brakes.”
He looked at the cop
suspiciously.
“Y’ didn’t think I did it for
fun?” he asked.
“You don't mind if I —er —smoke in the kitchen ?”


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. .. .. 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
with an unknown young man
who spoke little and uncertain
English, and grew more and
more confused by the whole
affair.
The young man refused a
pass. After all, he said, the
French Information Office had
not dry-cleaned the suit, and
could accept no responsibility
for it, or for troubles it might
bring upon Henry. He would,
however, talk to the elevator-
man.
The young fellow’s conversa-
tion with the driver seemed only
to convince that worthy that
Henry was no lone-wolf of
crime. The Frenchman, he
obviously thought, was an
accomplice—an inside-man, a
trusted but wicked employee
who would get his cut when
Henry got the treasure safely
away.
Eventually the lift-door
slammed in their faces. The
Frenchman shrugged, with
Gallic resignation, and went
away. Henry stood grinding
his teeth, and then had the idea
which saved him.
Methodically and
calmly he took the suit
out of its cardboard box and
placed it aside. He crumpled
its tissue wrappings together
with some old letters he found
in his pocket, and placed them
on the floor. He then tore the
box into convenient strips and
criss-crossed these over the
paper. He lit the fire he had
thus set in a busy 14th-floor
corridor, and stood back to
await results.
Results came quickly, in the
form of men with guns and
men with fire-extinguishers.
They didn’t shoot Henry, but
when they had put his fire out
they seemed displeased. So
was he.
“What do you mean, squirt-
ing all that stuff on my fire?”
he asked.
They told him, at some
length, and demanded to know
firstly what he meant by start-
ing a fire in such a place and
secondly the name of the insti-
tution from which he had
escaped.
“The trouble is, I can’t
escape,” said Henry sweetly,
after he had told his story. ‘"I
have to eat, and I don’t like raw
meat. So I lit my campfire, see?
Like a Boy Scout. I was just
watching the stenographers
scuttle up and down the passage
and when a nice, plump,
tender one came along I was
going to grab her and cook
her.”
This convinced them more
completely than ever that Henry
had escaped from somewhere,
and had probably pawned his
straitjacket to buy a box of
matches and set up as an
arsonist. He looked like getting
out of the building all right, but
only to go into one w.ith less
height but thicker walls. - Irony
is wasted on New York lift-
drivers, building - superinten-
dents and guards. But for-
tunately before they removed
him in handcuffs his French
friends and business contacts
came back and to the rescue.
They, of course, thought it a
huge joke, and only regretted
that an American, not a French-
man, had thought of it. They
took consolation from the fact
that Henry is of French
ancestry, and that this delightful
thing had happened in the
corridor that led to the French
Information Office.
Scowling guards released
Henry reluctantly. The lift-
man noticed his features, and
remembered them so well that
thereafter he could have taken
a bulldozer, a blonde or an
electric water-cooler out of that
building and nobody would
have dared to hinder him.
The French rewrapped his
suit ceremonially, ushered him
to the lift and, I hope, have
honored him ever since.
He came straight to the Aus-
tralian News and Information
Bureau to tell me all about it,
and to see about next week’s
programme.
But in our building he
cautiously left his parcel in one
of the shops in the concourse,
to be picked up later. He liked
and respected our stenographers
too much to eat one of them,
raw or cooked, in any circum-
stances, and, anyway, plough
was enough for one day, K
impressive rally which lasted
until the bell.
The next round found him
back again at his bombardment
of the Negro’s body. He
pursued this objective with
burning zeal. He was fighting
like a demon, and every time
his gloves slammed into the
willowy brown torso Gans
held on affectionately until
Charley White separated
them.
Between times, Gans was
sniping at the Australian’s
head. He was catching him as
he came in, not in- a hurried
and makeshift way, but with
the timed and exact stabs of a
trained duellist. Fresh from
his win over a human cyclone
named Dal Hawkins, Gans had
great confidence in his ability
to hit an onrushing target, and
to hurt when he did land.
Griffo seemed indifferent to
these waspish deliveries, but his
face was showing decided
marks of traffic. It was a
weird role for the most superb
defensive artist of the time.
Still, for what it was worth,
he gave the plan everything he
had. In the fifth and sixth
lounds he kept up the pattern
of attack —a bulldog charge to
close quarters, there to stand
and whip in heavy blows that
caused Gans to hang on for all
he was worth.
So far Griffo had been in
charge, piling up points and
making the fight. But in the
seventh round Gans, who had
plainly been holding something
in reserve, applied more
pressure.
Griffo’s opening rush went a
little sour this time. Gans
coolly waited for an opening,
and let fly a right to the heart
which spun Griffo half-round.
Griffo bored in persistently, but
Gans had his eye in, and with
forceful punching propped
Griffo out of distance.
Warmed-up, Gans was
handling the job with admir-
able skill. He threw Griffo off-
balance with stiff counters, and
then closed the gap with a
singte leap and swung both
hands to the head. Griffo went
down.
As the referee began to
count, Griffo motioned him
aside and got up. Gans at
once rushed in with a volley of
very fast punches, smearing
Griffo’s face with blood. Never
before had the Australian taken
such a battering, but he was
still defiant, never ceasing to
attack. Towards the end of the
round Gans knocked him down
again, and this time he went
down hard. But once more the
referee had barely started the
ritual when Griffo stood up and
impatiently gestured him out of
the way. When the bell
sounded, he was fighting tiger-
ishly, his face a crimson mask
cf blood.
Gans opened the eighth
round with the confident air of
a man who sees his path clear
before him. His long arms
speared in from all angles ; his
thudding gloves set the lights
dancing in Griffo’s head. Griffo
shook off the effects and
stormed in, constantly infight-
ing. His hammering at the
body made Gans bend over,
taking his waist away from the
firing-line, but it was for the
last time. Gans suddenly
straightened, and his right glove
smashed with smooth power on
Griffo’s jaw.
It was with an identical blast
that Gans disposed of Frank
Erne in the first round, and
won the world’s title. It sent
Griffo tottering blindly to the
ropes, and it seemed beyond
question that another punch or
two would have finished him.
Referee White stepped quickly
between the fighters and
declared Gans the winner.
It looks as if Griffo had
gone into this fight under the
delusion, common to over-age
and slowing practitioners, that
he had developed lethal hitting-
powers. The year before, train-
ing at Carlisle, he had called
attention to what he fancied
was added weight behind his
punches.
He must have come away
from Coney Island with
revised ideas; he had hurt
Cans several times, but not
convincingly, while the policy
of rushing inside against a kill-
ing puncher had proved
suicidal.
{To be concluded next week)
THE DEAD POET
Hardly is the great voice
dumb
before the insecure come
to claim their credit and aver
that all it was is what they
were.
Hardly is the flesh gone grey
before they turn its night to
day
and prove that its made-
magic lust
is that same love in which
they trust.
Hardly is the poet dead
before the halo’s on his head
and all his sins are what we
are;
we tie our bundle on his star.
N.S.W.
Ray Mathew.


Guinea, then a live subject; and then,
on May 18, 1875, sailing-day, at a
farewell - luncheon aboard the S.S.
Connanbarra, which followed the
Chevert as she was towed down the
harbor to Vaucluse, 200 of Sydney’s
society-leaders ate, drank and listened
to valedictories by Premier Sir John
Robertson and the visiting English
novelist Anthony Trollope.
No scientific expedition could be
expected to sustain the splendor of such
preparations; and although Macmillan
makes an excellent story of the voyage,
it must be confessed it is not quite in
keeping: the sojourn and the walk-
about in the swamps of the Katau
estuary which eventually brought
Macleay down with fever; Captain
Edwards’s shrewd seamanship which
proved so overcautious that it cost them
an anchor and an outright refusal to
satisfy Macleay’s ambition to go up the
Fly River; the transfer of Macleay-, his
firiend Onslow and his curator,
Masters, to the steamer Singapore in
Shallow Bay, Queensland, so that they
might get quickly back to Sydney . . .
There they had to meet news of a
jeering missionary, McFarlane, who
had got up the Maikaca River in a
launch and press-stories that the
Macleay enterprise had been “a total
failure.” Macleay was satisfied to
publish an account of his expedition
in the Sydney “Herald”; and his report
of New Guinea conditions seems to
have dampened the annexationists’
eagerness to send a colonising expedi-
tion there.
He was content then to await the
arrival of the Chevert loaded with New
Guinea natural - history specimens
which kept him and Masters busy for
the next six years. The “failure” of
his expedition in a “business” or
colonising sense was no failure for
him. In 1890 he gave Sydney Uni-
versity £12,000 to establish a Chair of
Bacteriology; and the Linnean Society
£35,000 for four research-fellowships
in biology. He died in 1891.
Macmillan has one of the first
essentials of a biographer, an ability
to put together scraps and hints from
records, diaries, letters, etc., so that
they give you the man fully-dressed,
not “in the style of the period,” but
“in a well-cut black serge frock-coat
with an astrakhan collar, his top-hat
slightly cocked forward,” swinging “a
heavy cane.” He is first to lament the
lack of scientific knowledge which
might have made him more precise on
Macleay’s contributions to research;
but he makes up for this with a picture
of the man and his times at all times
interesting and often of enchanting
color.
Tasmanian Boats
Harry O’May has added to his grisly
study of Australian wrecks two more
cheerful books, published as one book
by L. G. Shea, Government Printer,
Tasmania: Wooden Hookers of Hobart
Town and Whalers Out of Van
Diemen’s Land. Gathered together
under the heading of the years from
1804 to the present, they make interest-
ing paragraphic reading for the casual
reader and, of course, must be of more
than ordinary interest to students of
ships and the sea.
Here again will be found the names
and something about the businesses of
the Hobart shipbuilders, who made
ships from a few tons up to more than
400 tons; about the whaling-ships and
their tuns of oil, the prices they got
for them and the dangers the ordinary
crews of whaling-ships faced for £25 a
voyage; about the Derwent boatraces,
when Hobart whalers beat American
crews; about the fastest Hobart-Sydney
run of 58 hours by the 441-ton George
Home in 1828.
Though for the reviewer’s money the
schooner Eliza under full sail among
the many plates looks faster than that
—one was always a fool for a pretty
schooner. The Eliza, says the text, was
built for the melancholy Government
service of chasing ships suspected of
departing with escaping convicts —
never was a cruel heart disguised under
a more lovely face.
Four Australian Novels
In The Green Helmet (Collins) Jon
Cleary has at last attained the
garnet-paper finish of a Number 1
“Saturday Evening Post” serial-writer,
and maybe having one of the “Post’s”
most winning routines has something
to do with it: namely, the persuading
of a poor little millionairess that there
is a man and a future in the world, even
for her.
She is the daughter of an Italian-
American tyre-manufacturer, who has
been deprived of a home-life and given
only a Vassar education, while the
young man is an English racing-car
driver of Irish extraction whom her
father has chosen to race with his tyres.
There is a younger brother jealous of
his older brother’s" success, and an
Australian mechanic called Richie
who invents a new car, but, being a bit
crude for this Continental company, is
killed-off in its trials on the Mille
Miglia run, leaving the two brothers to
win the race, much as in the gallop
that concludes a Western; and, indeed,
as big brother hops out of the car and
runs into his sweetheart’s arms, you’d
have to be deafer than her hearing-
aided father to miss the wild cranking
of Hollywood in the background.
Ah, but Cleary’s narration! How
smooth, what knowledge of cars and
racetracks, what deft little bits of
business, as in the young Englishman’s
refusal to call his American employer
“Mr.” What swift and clear presenta-
tions of scenes in high-class English
pubs, New York pent-house apart-
ments, American factories, English
country places! Writers with more to
say, or less, might well admire the
hard-gained discipline of his writing.
Such, indeed, as Helen Fowler,
whose Green Leaves (Angus and
Robertson) is trying to say much the
same thing. Helen Fowler’s poor little
rich girl works in some kind of scent-
distributory in Sydney, but goes home
to a tree-lined drive, maids and
chauffeurs. She falls for a young
ex-airman who is running a home in
ah orchard for unwanted children; she
goes up and helps him and his sister
with the kids, and gradually draws her
family and friends into this worthier
way of life ... It has charm, but is
sentimental.
Frank O’Grady’s poor little rich girl
in his new novel, Hanging Rock
(Cassell), is more truly poor; she is the
daughter of a scheming Sydney poli-
tician of long ago. The politician spurns
the suit of her young man because the
young man is merely an employee of the
Crown Lands Department; so young
Robert pushes off into the bush to
watch Government interests at a new
gold-strike.
O’Grady makes a good job of the
goldfield, and is more successful there
with his efforts to get an American
“Western” atmosphere than in the wild
cowboys-’n’-Indians travesty of his first
book, “The Golden Valley.” He almost
gets his hero off with another girl, but
the scheming politician is unmasked as
the master-mind of a gold-robbing
bushranger just in time, and it is shown
that his daughter is really somebody
else’s daughter, so the original marriage
is allowed to proceed.
Don Whitington’s rich girl in
Treasure Upon the Earth (Georgian
House) is in no way poor; she spurns
his aspiring politician without regret;
indeed, Whitington’s rich girl and poli-
tician, with the politician’s wharf-
laboring brother, his shopgirl wife, his
friend, the shipping-magnate’s son, are
far more real than any character in
the three other books mentioned, and
Whitington’s book has something of
that canker-in-the-heart with which
men of wide experience of affairs
reflect upon the actors in them.
To have observed Whitington in
Canberra gathering news about an
afternoon Labor conference, to which
reporters were not admitted, so that
readers of the morning papers should
have a clear account of what happened,
is for a mere reviewer to feel humbled
into the dust before a real live political


(The (Philadelphian
by Richard Powell
Two weeks after publication “THE PHILADELPHIAN” rocketed to a
“runaway best-seller” in the U.S.A.
Obtainable from all Booksellers and Department Stores.
Retail price in Australia 20/-.
Hodder & Stoughton, Ltd.
reporter; and so this account of the
life of a young Labor politician who
got into Federal Parliament from the
Rocks district of Sydney may be taken
as authentic in settings and circum-
stances, though the author has gone to
obvious pains to ensure that no one
politician, living or dead, may be
recognised as his hero.
And rightly so; there is the business,
during his increasing prosperity, of
furnishing the front rooms of a terrace
poorly; of the recommendation (for
money) of a gun which blew off the
heads of soldiers; of the affair with
the girl-secretary and her exile to
Hobart when she became inconvenient;
of the twist by which he allowed him-
self to be voted out of Labor repre-
sentation so that he could cross over
and lead the Tories; of the realisation
that his wife and family could not live
up to his new status and his effort to
marry the sister of his wealthy young
friend and backer.
The key to the novel is the constant
twist, twist, twist which the political
reporter must see every day in his
dealings with men to whom change or
compromise is the condition of life.
Given Jon Cleary’s sense of the
dramatic, it might have a more
immediate appeal; as it is, its sober
story of gradual decay is likely to recur
to the reader when the delicate satisfac-
tions of poor little rich girls have been
forgotten.
A Storybook Gordon
Adam Lindsay Gordon makes an
awkward subject for a book presented
in the simple style of a book for boys,
Boy on a Horse, by H. J. Samuel and
Enid Moodie Heddle (Cheshire); his
was an adventurous life, and if there
was anything sexually scandalous
about it none of his biographers seems
to have mentioned it —in fact, until his
death, he was in most respects a boy;
but then there was his death ... it is
not fitting that a hero of a boys’ book
should kill himself in despair.
For some other treatment, it is a first-
rate death. He has lost the English
lawsuit that might have restored his
fortunes, his head, battered in fall after
fall from horses, is paining him; in debt
over the lawsuit, he has got further into
debt printing what he feels can only
be an unsuccessful book of poems; so
he gets up in the morning, goes up on
the cliff and shoots himself.
And, some say that morning, or at
any rate within a few days, his book
is published with one of the finest odes
to the sea in English, and with the
“Dedication” and “The Sick Stock-
rider,” which, whatever may be said
about their imperfections, were the
seeds of the first and only large tradi-
tion of Australian poetry.
The dramatic irony of this calls for
larger treatment than perhaps any
novelist or playwright of today could
give it; he never could bother to alter
a line; he says his say and vanishes with
a bang—no hanging around to read
the reviews, hand round the hat, attend
testimonial dinners, dwindle into a
great man—he rode ashore in “The
Swimmer” like a god. and he went out
like a god with a flash of lightning and
a peal of thunder . . .
Metaphorically, of course; and, of
course, as the authors of “Boy on
Horseback” realise, there was more
than literature in Gordon’s life. The
wild young English horseman and
boxer packed into his few Australian
years several lives of experience as
policeman, member of Parliament,
steeplechase-rider and trainer; and
probably no horseman that Australia
produced will rival the fame of this
one, who could see no more than a
blur beyond his horse’s ears, who
insisted on making short-cuts through
the bush in which he was almost certain
to be knocked off his horse by branches
he could not see, and who did things
for a bet or the hell of it that make
him as legendary as the Man from
Snowy River.
For those who take their biography
neat the introduction to the Oxford
edition of Gordon’s poems must seem
an extraordinarily satisfying job; but
in addition to turning his life into
dialogue, “Boy on a Horse” goes to
considerable trouble to recreate the
scenes and atmosphere of Gordon’s
days. Nobody who has stumbled
through the gloomy ruin of the verse-
drama “Ashtaroth” would say that this
charming life-story completely explains
Gordon, but the onlooker sees most
of the game, and no doubt it is a kindly
thing for writers of popular biographies
to make their subjects more comfort-
able in their paper mausoleums than
they were in life.
ANARE
In ANARE, which is short for Aus-
tralian National Antarctic Research
Expeditions, Phillip Law, Director of
the Antarctic Division of the External
Affairs Department, and John Becher-
vaise, officer-in-charge, Heard Island,
1953, and Mawson, 1955, have got
together for the 0.U.P., Melbourne, an
extremely lush souvenir of recent Aus-
tralian expeditions to Antarctica,
A chapter on Australia’s organisa-
tion of expeditions and stations is
followed by a description of the
journey south, some consideration of
icebergs; then the stosy of Macquarie
Island; a little about seals; a descrip-
tion of the station at Mawson with such
detailed maps that the reader could
easily find his way about in it if he
should ever happen to drop in; another
chapter on Heard Island; something
about Antarctic mountains, about the
work of scientists and about penguins
and other Antarctic birds.
But the real pleasure of the book is
in the pictures; it is printed on plate-
paper, so that almost'every page can
have its picture, and so that the text
itself acts as the caption; the color-
pictures have the tendency of all color-
photographs to look like cake-icing,
but even so they are superb; the honey-
colored evening sun on the Kista Dan
on page 11, for instance; the plane-
views of icebergs on pages 29 and 31;
the ice-creamy texture of snow and
the dog-team at the foot of the huge
iceberg, on page 65.
Or, among the black-and-white
pictures, the 15-mile vista of snow
between mountains on page 89, the
extraordinary picture of a “lenticular”
cloud on page 111; the panorama of
the “station-isthmus” at Macquarie
Island; these with the many pictures
of seals, sea-elephants, penguins and
other birds —the defiant skua in color
on page 129, for instance—make it
possible for the reader to see what
only a few of the world’s population,
in the world’s histoiy, most of whose
names are printed as the staff of the
various expeditions at the back of the
book, have ever seen.


W
w,
f /
o
A
&
M.L.C
FAMILY INCOME POLICY
(SCALE 5)
This M.L.C. policy is one which every family man needs ... it will protect
YOUR wife and children should anything happen to you. Consider what
it guarantees ...
• A large IMMEDIATE CASH SUM on death to meet outstanding
bills, hospital, medical and funeral expenses, etc.
O A GUARANTEED MONTHLY INCOME for your widow beginning
from date of death and ceasing at the expiry of the income period
when the children become grown up. (You select the INCOME
PERIOD—IO, 15 or 20 years—to suit your needs best.)
The M.L.C. man will show you how this Family Income Policy has none
of the uncertainties and disadvantages of investments like trust funds,
shares, etc. Let him make an appointment at a time convenient to you for
a thorough discussion of this important type of policy.
Be well advised
by the M.L.C. man
*£!lt if'-’ '<
, .IJMIVI.,^
(imrporsted iti NJ.W.)
The MUTUAL LIM and CITIZENS
Assurance Co. limited
MLI3I/F.P.
