

CENTURY LEADS
-"" ' . I •'
WITH A BATTERY THATS
YEARS AHEAD
Century engineers, working closely with the greatest
battery laboratories in U.S.A., bring you this marvel-
lous new homelighting Battery.
NEW IN EVERY DETAIL—WITH NEW TECHNIQUES
*—NEW CONSTRUCTION METHODS—NEW SUPER
PERFORMANCE.
LOOK AT THESE DYNAMIC FEATURES. NO OTHER BATTERY HAS THEM!
SILVIUM— the scientific additive
which KEEPS PLATES ACTIVf
WITH MAXIMUM EFFICIENCY:
PREVENTS ©RID CORROSION.
ONLY CENTURY HOMEUSHT-
tN© BATTERIES CONTAIN
tuviuto.
TRANSPARENT POLYSTYRENE
CONTAINER . . . you can sea
the acid level at a glance.
INBUILT GRAVITY BALL INDICA.
TORS . . . show stat« of charge
AT ALL TIMES. No more me&sy
hydrometer.
©LASS INSULATION gives su»
tained power during the BAT*
TERY'S ENTIRE LIFE.
SACKED BY A BULLET-PROOF
THREE YEARS' GUARANTEE
with SIL.VIUM
FOLLOW THE LEAD OF THOUSANDS OF SATISFIED GRAZIERS
AND STATION OWNERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
DEMAND THE BEST . . . BUY THE BEST . » . BUY CENTURY!
SIL.VIUM Batteries are alt* available for all cart, trucks, tractors, ate.
ms
S'
GUARANTEED
THREE YEARS
These three gravity ball
indicators white, red
and green—are clearly
visible through the trans-
parent polystyrene con-
tainer. Their floating
position shows instantly
the Battery s state of
charge.
AVAILABLE FROM CENTURY BATTERY DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
The Bulletin
A Judith Wright Story— page 34
Wednesday , March 5,1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


Win Success
as a Writer!
There is always a demand for Well-Written
Short Stories, Articles, Written Sketches,
Radio Talks, Pars., etc.
STOTT’S will provide you with interest-
ing, Practical, Home-Study Instruction of
the highest quality, under the guidance of
thoroughly experienced Instructors.
Mrs. J. Penna earned £7O for Short
Stories whilst still engaged on her Course.
Another Student earned over £2OO for
Acceptances during six months.
Our Literary Prospectus is sent without
obligation to all interested in Writing.
Mail the Coupon today.
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh
St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane;
21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St.,
Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON”
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation. your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
JIY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE. ....... (S.R/. 558)
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney-
A service for readers. That ‘difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
THE BIG BOSS VOSS
It seems to be the custom for
Patrick White’s novels to receive high
praise overseas and much more
sceptical notices in Australia; and
whether we local reviewers are merely
envious or subject to the national fail-
ing of hitting any head that raises
itself above the crowd, or whether by
any chance standards of criticism are
generally higher here than abroad, is
an intriguing question.
One thing is certain: the overseas
praise does tend to be excessive; and,
like the excessively hostile reviews of
the Oxford book of Australian verse,
lacking in the fundamental knowledge
of the subject which alone can give
real authority. Thus, on the jacket of
Patrick White’s Voss (Eyre and
Spottiswoode) is printed an extract
from the “Sunday Times” review of
“The Tree of Man”: “This is perhaps
the first great Australian novel”: and,
despite the useful “perhaps,” this is
the sort of overstatement which an
Australian reviewer is naturally
tempted to call to question.
What is the English reviewer’s basis
for such a verdict? Has he seriously
compared “The Tree of Man” with
“For the Term of His Natural Life,”
with “The Escape of 9jr William
Heans,” with “Such Is Life,” with
“Jonah,” with “The Pea Pickers,” with
“The Fortunes of Richard Mahony,”
etc.? Has he even read these novels?
This time, fortunately, I have
managed to avoid reading most of the
English and American reviews of
“Voss,” and so am fairly free to look
at it detachedly; but I gather from
Kylie Tennant’s review in the “S. M.
Herald” that it received the usual
high praise abroad; and I see from this
and other less favorable notices that
there has also been the usual Australian
scepticism. Kylie Tennant said that
when White gets mystical she “creeps
out the door”; and so, I am afraid, do
I. I used to do a fair amount of creep-
ing away from D. H. Lawrence, too.
This may be unkind, or uncultured;
but none of my favorite novelists from
Petronius to Fielding and Dickens ever
bothers his readers with mysticism, or
even by going in for too many exquisite
subtleties of thought and feeling: they
just paint the human comedy: and if
William Gosse Hay is subtle and
mystical enough, I can, with difficulty,
follow him; whereas I really have no
idea what Patrick White means by the
extraordinary prose-poems he attri-
butes to one of his explorers, Le
Mesurier, or even by what appears
to be his central “message,” spoken by
Laura Trevelyan in her mystical
delirium, “How important it is to
understand the three stages. Of God
into man. Man. And man returning
into God” —unless it merely means
that Leichhardt (or Voss) had to be
more humble to save his soul; which
hardly needs to be said so obscurely.
Nevertheless, when Patrick White
aims so high and writes so excellent a
novel in his chosen method, it seems
a pity thus to join in the chorus of
scepticism; and it ought to be made
clear, as indeed most of the reviewers
have, that one criticises with respect.
It is only an important writer who is
worth criticising; and if importance in
art can be a simpler thing than this —
look at Henry Lawson —there remains
no doubt that White’s symbolic and
intellectual kind of writing has its own
force and validity. It could —con-
ceivably—work; and if it did we
should have, if not necessarily “perhaps
the first great Australian novel,” the
best in its kind since “The Escape of
Sir William Heans.” I suppose “Voss”
is that, anyhow; but it is not equal to
Hay.
Patrick White seems to me here to
be not so much writing a novel as
painting a set of surrealist pictures. His
story is simply a fictional, freely-
imagined account of Leichhardt’s last
journey, when he perished in an
attempt to cross the continent; and
Leichhardt—whom, to be free of the
facts, he calls Voss —is presented in
a series of attitudes, sinister, macabre
and dramatic, like a scarecrow. The
green man in the thunderstorm, for
instance:—
A flash of green lightning cut the
brown air.
“All sheep must be sacrificed,”
shouted the German against the
thunder and inhaled until it began
to appear he might burst.
Or the “expiring candle” when the
expedition is a step nearer disaster:—
Those under his command, includ-
ing the aboriginal boy, were struck
by the incandescence of the mati
who was leading them. They were in
love with that rather gaunt, bearded
head, and would compel themselves
to ignore the fact that it was a
skull with a candle expiring inside.
Or Voss’s terrible vision of Laura, his
mystical beloved, just before Le
Mesurier cuts his throat and the leader
himself has his head cut off by the
aboriginal boy:—
Then he looked at her and saw
that they had cut off her hair, and
below the surprising stubble that
remained, they had pared the flesh
from her face. She was now quite
naked. And beautiful. Her eyes
were drenching him.
In its mannered style and method
the whole novel is, in fact, not unlike
those stylised, symbolic paintings of
bushrangers and explorers in which
Sidney Nolan (whose pen l seem to
recognise on the jacket) has attempted
to capture the horror of the fanatic in
the wilderness; but the art is really
more like Dali’s than Nolan’s, not so
naive, more richly painted, more
sinister in its light-effects, more
dreamlike; and there are entrails . . .
mercifully, of horses. I have never
really cared for Dali (all the surrealists
are too messy), but White’s pictures
are, in their kind, most vivid.
It is when he has to set these pictures
moving, when his explorers have to
live and talk and act on the plane of
everyday reality, that the novel fails
to be convincing. Because everybody
is “gathered together at the core of a
mystery,” because everybody is
arranged in order in a mystical and
pictorial tableau, there is no real
conviction —nothing emotionally mov-
ing—in the death of the ornithologist,
whom he calls Palfreyman.
And, immediately afterwards, what
should be the book’s greatest dramatic
moment, when three of Voss’s com-
panions desert him, is completely flat:
not because the writing here is
deliberately quiet—that could be very
effective—but because none of the
characters is alive. They are symbols;
pictures; the enlarged shadows of
explorers.
As for the central love-affair, con-
ducted at long distance and in visions,
between Voss and Laura, that is wholly
shadowy; indeed, for all the mystical
intensity with which Patrick White
(Continued on page 58)


First Again!
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Tuf" footwear is guaranteed
to outwear all other footwear
of a similar type!
t Now for the first time in Australia, A.H’s introduce the
latest in heavy duty footwear from England. They are
made by an entirely new process, eliminating old-
fashioned stitching, nails and rivets, welding the wear
resisting soles to the upper and to save you discomfort
they have a special insole which will not. draw the feet.
They have an absolutely waterproof join between sole
and upper and are ideal for golfing, hiking or wherever
a hard wearing shoe is needed. 80951. Box 2712 G.P.O.
82'6
“Tuf” Derby. Black or
tan, welded rubber
soles, heels. 82/6
19/6
45/
* ? -.■
ov
£*s
“Tuf Ranger.” Black
grained leather. Special
chafe guard. 6-11, 96/-.
Postage Extra
SPECIAL GUARANTEE WITH EACH PAIR OF "TUF" BOOTS AND SHOES


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 5,1958
Vol. 79—No. 4073
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man’’
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
A delaide.
Westraha : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
UNEMPLOYMENT PANIC
THE Australian Labor party is making
a political issue of unemployment.
It is sound policy that Labor should
make an issue of the matter; indeed,
that everybody concerned —Govern-
ment, Opposition, employers and
workers—should. It is, in fact, vital
that an issue should be made; for
although unemployment in Australia
is more marked by its absence than
by its magnitude, considering the
economic and overseas market position,
forewarned is forearmed.
What is despicable about the
Opposition attitude is not the fact that
it is paying attention to the matter and
seeking to spur the Government to
treat it with practical seriousness but
the manner of its approach and the
nature of its logic.
Its viewpoint was expressed at a
meeting of the N.S.W. Labor Council
during the first week of February by
Mr. W. O’Neill, organiser to the
Australian Railways Union, a body
which does very little to encourage
conditions making for full unemploy-
ment. O’Neill said that “every person
born into society has the moral right
to work and to be able to support his
family in a decent way.”
This, in a Welfare State, is probably
a fair basic statement of human rights,
but it only goes halfway; for the
corollary is that the workers as a whole
should play fair, that they should give
a fair day’s work for a fair day’s pay,
that they should not obstruct the
economy with political* strikes called
in the interests of a foreign Power by
leaders who are more concerned with
the political interests and aims of the
Communist party than with those of
the workers.
Labor never says a word about the
responsibility of the worker to earn his
pay; and in discussion of remedies it
is always held that whatever is wrong
is the fault of the employer or of any
Government in power which does not
happen to be a Labor Government,
and that these have the cure in their
own hands, plus the ability at the same
time to shorten hours and continue to
increase wages.
When it is asked for a solution, that
put forward at the Labor Council is
always advanced, as the assistant-
secretary of the Waterside Workers’
Federation advanced it during the
debate —“the real answer to unemploy-
ment is Socialism —the Socialisation of
industry is part of the A.L.P. platform.”
It is the answer, but not on terms
which Australian workers would
approve. Russia has Socialisation; it
it continually advertised that there is
no unemployment in Russia. There
probably isn’t, but the cost is the
maintenance of a huge war-production
industry (which the Government could
not drop without bringing about ruin);
dog-kennel housing-conditions with
more than one family to a room in
many cases; widespread slave-camps;
and unions which are merely Govern-
ment departments; also, direction of
labor which goes where it is told at a
moment’s notice and takes what is given
it with a still tongue.
The A.L.P.’s solution for present
unemployment seems to be public
works, > which are equivalent to relief-
works paid for by the Commonwealth
taxpayers—or out of inflation.
But Labor does not care very much
about consequences which are not
immediately political. Its urgent task
is not to make full employment secure
but to get Dr. Evatt into power at any
cost, and if it can be done by creating
panic, by bringing industry to a stand-
still, by throwing thousands out of
work in the process, well afid good;
for then, with strident, hate-filled
accusation it will throw the blame for
its own wrecking on the shoulders of
the Government and the employers
whom it is obstructing to the limit and
loading-down with the handicaps of
loaf and demands for wage-increases.
At the very moment when Labor is
suggesting the existence of a desperate
situation, the metal-trades unions, with
the full backing of the A.C.T.U. (which
needs the move as a starter for its own
political plans), are demanding a 35-
hour week and marginal increases of
from £3 3s. to £6 10s. a week.
Leftists do not, of course, take their
own medicine; for the employees of the
Communist party and its newspapers
and agencies live on a starveling basis.
One of the very unions which was
most noisy in its demand for the new
increases, the Red-run A.E.U., is under
the charge that it celebrated the Federal
conference at which the demands were
made by “430 trade-union officials,
shop-stewards and rank-and-file dele-
gates,” by reducing the wages of its
own officials. It so far has not denied
this charge.
The plain fact which the worker and
the electors should understand is that
Socialism is no cure for anything in
Australia—in fact, there have been
prime examples in Australia during
the .last two or three years of .the
complete failure of Socialism in public
works, particularly when contrasted
with the speed with which Government
jobs have been completed by private
enterprise.
It must be made clear that any
increase of wages at a time when
unemployment is growing would be
disastrous. High costs even now are a
prime cause of unemployment. And
finally it must be comprehended that
the causes of the present slight check,
which may become a far bigger one,
lie partly with natural shortages caused
by drought inside Australia and by
market conditions outside.
Australian wool - production and
prices are down. The Wheat Board in
the past season received only two-thirds
of a normal season’s wheat. Meat- and
dairy-productipn have been restricted
by the weather and will continue to be
restricted during the coming year, and
all primary produce markets overseas
are suffering falls in prices and—
outside wool —severe slackness of
demand for Australian lines. The prices
of base metals have fallen sensationally.
These are the basic troubles at the
bottom of the unemployment position.
But other countries would scarcely call
them troubles. Australia has less
unemployment proportionately than
any other country in the world.
The U.S. unemployed jumped by
a million last month, to well on towards
5,000,000, the highest for six years. In
United Kingdom the number of
persons out of work on January 13 was
60,000 more than on December 9
the figure was 395,000. and two-fifths
of these had been idle for at least eight
weeks. In Canada unemployment had
set a post-war record peak in January
—520,000, easily beating the previous
post-war record of 401,000 in March,
1955 —and the increase was 33 per cent,
in a month.
So far the Commonwealth Govern-
ment has not failed on the employment
question. Neither has industry. But
the full Impact of overseas conditions
probably has yet to be felt. The thing
in which Canberra has failed is public
relations. In explanation of the situa-
tion it has confined itself to the utter-
ances of Mr. Holt, whereas a lucid and
carefully planned “information” cam-
paign under the Prime Minister’s
leadership is necessary to make the
position and its dangers and securities
fully understandable to ordinary
intelligences. So far all the real
explaining has been left to wrecker
elements whose political need is for a
recession or a depression which would
enable them to ride back into power
on a wave of panic.


"WHY DO I ALWAYS HAVE TO BE THE BACK END, BERT?"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Standover: Retail and
Wholesale
One of the numerous rackets connected
with employment in N.S.W. was
unmasked last week when Judge Holden
in Sydney sentenced a 21-year-old laborer,
described as a tool of a standover gang,
for having “demanded money with
menaces with intent to steal. The
sentence was three years’ hard labor.
The offence was committed at the Darl-
ing Harbor railway goods-yard, and the
modus operandi was for the gang to
demand ss. a day from prospective
workers who, if they failed to pay-up,
were threatened with violence and forced
to take the end of the work-queue, with
the result that they had no hope ot
employment.
Judge Holden issued a “definite
promise” that if any person should do
violence to a fellow-workman while stand-
ing-over him for money, he would order
him a flogging as well as imprisonment.
This attitude of the Bench is salutary,
but there are aspects which call for wider
consideration. The standover tactics at
Darling Harbor yards had been- notorious
for a long time, but had to wait exposure
by the press before they were dealt with.
It is something of a mystery how this
sort of thing could go on without attract-
ing the attention both of the relevant
unions and of the Railway Department.
In any case, it raises the whole ques-
tion of standover tactics, which are not
limited to individual unionists. Many
unions force their members by
threats to carry out union orders even
when they are illegal and promulgated for
the seditious purposes of the Communist
party.
In many trades workers who regard the
Communist party as worse than poison
are compelled to subscribe to union funds
which are illegally used for the political
purposes of both the Communist party
and the A.L.P. And if they did not do
so, the union-leaderships would see to it
that they lost their livings.
In some unions even criticism of the
leadership is an offence which can be
punished by anything from expulsion and
denial of a livelihood to an illegal fine by
a union tribunal.
Strikes, go-slow and absenteeism may
be illegal under awards, but the worker
who chooses to obey the law in prefer-
ence to some thug at the top who is bent
on disorganising transport for the purpose
of weakening Australian defence soon
finds out who is the real boss.
Industrial standover by unions which
forces union-members to subscribe to
political £unds against their consciences,
which stifles freedom of speech and
criticism or which promotes illegal
strikes and damages the national economy
and affects employment and the
individual’s right to work, is a more far-
reaching crime than is involved in
individual threats.
It is difficult to see how the law (as a
whole) can punish with the utmost
severity the standover tactics of a few
individuals while it take no action and,
indeed, provides no means of taking
action against the mass-saboteur of the
unions, many of which have become fully
privileged lawbreakers where their mem-
bers are concerned.
It is unfortunately true that there are
unions in which it is a greater crime to
uphold the boss, to vote Liberal or D.L.P.
or to show a disposition to obey Arbitra-
tion Court rulings than it is to steal or
commit violence against a comrade who
refuses to have his ethics and beliefs
dictated by the mob.
Ampol’s 32,000-ton Tanker
Quite an amount of significance attaches
to Ampol Petroleum’s placing of an order
for a 32,000-ton “super”-tanker with the
B.H.P. shipyards at Whyalla, through the
Australian Shipbuilding Board.
In the first place it emphasises the
remarkable growth of this Australian
petrol-distributing company under the
forceful management of W. G. Walkley,
who also attracted U.S. capital and oil-
finding techniques into the search for oil
in W.A., where £l3 million has so far been
spent, a large part of it on roadbuilding
and other development that is already
useful to the general public and the
State’s economy.
In the second place it shows that the
Federal Government is ready to move in
a constructive way when a worth-while
economic proposition is put before it
that can be carried out for the benefit
of a wide community. As evidence of
this, Canberra is prepared to bridge the
gap between overseas costs and Australian
costs of building this tanker—the largest
vessel ever to be undertaken by Aus-
tralian shipbuilders—by the necessary
subsidy.
A private bank —the National Bank of
Australasia —will finance the cost of the
tanker.
Playford’s Government in S.A. has
also offered to provide housing at
Whyalla for an extra 450 workers.
The announcement of this major ship-
building project came at a time when
cables indicated a big slump in overseas
shipping activity and in overseas ship-
building, and with unemployment becom-
ing a serious factor in North America
and of significance even in Western
Germany. The announcement also
coincided with the release by the Aus-
tralian central bank of £l5 million of
special accounts of the trading-banks.
This is generally taken as an indication
that the Federal authorities are fully con-
scious of the unemployment position,
even though Australian unemployment
has by no means reached serious propor-
tions.
Federal Public Servants
(From Canberra]
Few Australians realise just what a
monster the Commonwealth public service
has become, and how much it costs them
a year. Little do they know the rate at
which this giant is growing.
The Commonwealth Public Service
Board has reported to Parliament that
the total staff under its dominion on June
30 last year was 158,153, an increase of
4553 above the 153,600 employed at the
end of the previous financial year.
And the 158,153 did not include 3089
“part-time” employees of the Common-
wealth Government.
This growth was more starkly under-
lined by the added cost of this army on
the public payroll. The cost to tax-
payers in salaries and payments related
to salaries for 1956-57 was £150,629,369.
This was an increase of £5,481,082 over
expenditure in 1955-56.
The board claims that the reasons for
what it terms “this variation” were basic-
wage adjustments costing £3,600,000,
increase in staff requiring payments of
£2,500,000, and arbitrators’ determina-
tions and reclassifications of £200,000.
Apart from the P.M.G.’s Department,
whose total number of employees jumped
from 79,097 in June, 1956, to 82,791 at
the end of last June, the biggest Com-
monwealth department was the Works
Department, with 12,030 employees.
Other departments maintaining staffs
of 3000 or more were Repatriation (8120),
Taxation (7120), Army (4961), Civil
Aviation (4958), Supply (4049), Interior
(3880), Defence Production (3455) und
Customs and Excise (3004).
The board dealt with 203 cases
involving discipline in the 12 months to
June last, resulting in 97 dismissals from
the service, 22 reductions in salary or
status, and 84 fines of £2 and over. Only
three of the punishments were annulled.
Defence Revolution
British defence plans, as set-out in the
annual statement of the British Minister,
Mr. Sandys, represent something like a
revolution.
It is now obvious that the West admits
the possibility of attack by Russia with
conventional weapons and ground-forces,
against which there could be no ground-
defence, since the Russians, living
virtually on a war footing, could put 200
divisions into the field against, at most,
a quarter of that number (at the outset)
in Western Europe. Therefore, it appears,
faith is to be pinned to'a major extent on
guided and ballistic weapons, in which
the Nato Powers appear to have an over-
whelming advantage.
These weapons, against which there is at
present no answer, could, from sites in
Europe and elsewhere, dominate practi-
cally every target of importance in the
Soviet Union. The possession by Russia
of rockets of equal range will not, for
reasons of geography, afford her any
corresponding strategic advantage.
Mr. Sandys said that the ultimate aim
must be comprehensive disarmament by


all nations, coupled with comprehensive
inspection by a world authority ; but that,
pending the achievement of this ideal,
“there is no military reason why a world-
conflagration should not be prevented for
another generation or more through
balancing fears of mutual annihilation. In
fact, there is no reason why this should
not go on almost indefinitely,” though
“that would be indeed a mournful
prospect.”
Meanwhile it is hard to believe that
a section of the British Labor party both
cordially approves the reduction of con-
ventional forces and holds a grievance
against the British Government that it
intends to maintain production of the
hydrogen - bomb and guided - missiles
instead of leaving the matter to the
United States.
Any such policy would turn Western
Europe, and particularly the United
Kingdom, into a U.S. colony with its
policies dictated by Mr. Dulles—though
even now they are so dictated to a very
large extent, as shown by the example of
Suez.
While Russia is making great strides
in nuclear weapons, “her basic strength
lies in her overwhelming superiority in
conventional armaments and military
manpower,” which are maintained at the
highest level at the expense of the living-
standards and freedom of thought and
action of the Russian people.
In fact, “The strategy of Nato is based
on the frank recognition that a full-scale
Soviet attack could not be repelled with-
out resort to a massive nuclear bombard-
ment of the sources of power in Russia.”
And “in that event the role of the Allied
defences in Europe would be to hold the
front for the time needed to allow the
effects of the nuclear counter-offensive to
make themselves felt”:
It is best that these stark facts should
be stated plainly; since the one thing; that
migfht conceivably tempt the Soviet Union
into military adventure would be the
eVroneous belief that the West, if attacked,
would flinch from using; its nuclear power.
Among the changes which have taken
place in British defence are the virtual
closing of the great naval bases of the
Nore and Weymouth and the concentra-
tion of naval effort on counter-defence
against the huge Russian submarine
forces. Naval policy is now based on
new theories which involve integration
of an Allied naval force in the Atlantic
rather than the provision of a balanced
fleet in home waters. East of Suez, how-
ever, it is proposed to maintain a balanced
fleet of appreciable strength based on
Singapore which will allow the U.K. to
meet its obligation to Seato and the
Baghdad Pact countries.
In the air, the fighter virtually goes ;
it is the bomber age of an R.A.F.
equipped mainly, at present, with
Valiants gradually giving way to the more
efficient Vulcans and Victors and to
propelled bombs which make it unneces-
sary for aircraft to fly into more heavily
defended target-areas.
Underground launching of ballistic
weapons, low - flying anti - submarine
bombers, small ships of immense hitting-
power, and a substantial background of
conventional tactical forces whose pay will
be increased substantially are the main
features of the programme. Permanent
forces are reduced to 375,000 regulars of
all three services. But the Budget is still
for £1465 million, including cost of forces
in Germany.
Australia’s defence problems are differ-
ent from those of Europe, but they call
for considerable review.
Frank Forde Rides Again
When Frank Forde was a Federal
Minister he earned mild fame for his
invariable retort when asked a curly
question concerning the administration
of his departments. This was, “I’ll call
for a report.”
The policy has at last paid off. Last
August, when he was beaten for the
Flinders seat in the Queensland Assembly
by one vote, he called for a report. The
report has just come to hand —and it’s
in Frank’s favor. Mr. Justice Philp, who
sat as an election tribunal, has declared
the election void, and unless W. H.
Lonergan (Country party), who has been
sitting as member for Flinders since
September, decides to appeal—he has
until March 10 to make his decision —
there will be a by-election.
The chief point at issue concerned
16 absent votes cast by inmates of the
Eventide Home at Charters Towers and
which had been rejected by the returning-
ofticers because the envelopes containing
them did not bear the ballot-paper
numbers. Forde claimed that in not
ensuring that the numbers were on the
envelopes the manager of the Eventide
Home was guilty of a breach of duty as
presiding-officer, and that as the number
of votes involved was sufficient to have
altered the result, the election should be
declared void. The tribunal agreed with
him.
At the general election last year there
were four candidates, and the. final figures
were not known for nearly a month.
Forde led early, then Lonergan shaded
him, and finished a few votes in front.
The final recount reduced the leeway to
one vote. Actual figures: Lonergan
(C.P.), 1441; Forde (A.L.P.), 1440;
Katter (Q.L.P.), 1079 ; Corney (Ind. Lab),
225.
Forde’s prospects at the by-election
depend on the nature of the field—
especially whether a Q.L.P. man will run
—and the impact, favorable or otherwise,
of seven months of Country-party-
Liberal government.
Rochdale By-election
(From Westminster]
Macmillan’s homecoming was as chilly
as his departure. He left England in
the middle of one “little” trouble—the
Treasury resignation— to return to
another, the Rochdale by-election result,
which put the Tory candidate at the
bottom of the poll with a 32 p.c. drop in
the vote. This is the biggest fall yet,
comparing with 14 p.c. at Garston and
Ipswich and 20 p.c. at Gloucester. The
trend is now well marked, suggesting a
steep fall in Conservative esteem, a slight
drop in the Labor vote and a growing
tendency for the marginal or dissentient
yoter to support the Liberal.
By-elections are notoriously unreliable
as pointers to the next general elections.
Moreover, there were exceptional factors
at Rochdale. It was once, like other
North-country industrial districts, a
Liberal stronghold. The Liberal candi-
date, Ludovic Kennedy, is a TV per-
sonality, and his wife, Moira Shearer,
has won fame in a glamorous and much-
publicised profession. But the third
factor, so bitterly resented by the Tory
candidate, was the determination of the
cotton employers, angry because their
insistent demands for protection were
turned away, to “get at” the Govern-
ment.
Although the effect of this backhanded
ultimatum has been exaggerated, it is
nevertheless symptomatic of a more
general discontent. The votes lost are not
necessarily marginal ones ; they are cast
by disgruntled true-blue Tories who
consider the Government has let them
down by its pinkness, and they are
intended to be an awful warning. In a
general election these same votes would
be anti-Socialist.
Significantly, Labor has gained no new
votes (the percentage was, in fact, 4 p.c.
lower than in 1955). Which leads to
another conclusion, probably the strongest
influence of all. It is simply that the
electorate is weary of politicians as a
class, sick of cheap jibes and catch-as-
catch-can brawling. The two main
parties, it would appear, are perpetually
at one another’s throats. The fact that
the Socialists are the worse offenders (the
unseemly debate on the alleged bank-
rate “leak” and the tribunal’s report took
place on the eve of the poll) is just
unfortunate for the Conservatives.
What will the outcome be? That is
quite unpredictable, but it is unlikely that
the four recent by-elections have revived
the Liberal party into a cohesive force.
The Liberal candidates have merely
absorbed the residual votes cast in a
mood of “A plague on both your
houses! ”
One thing is certain: sectional pres-
sures (such as that on the part of the
cotton-industry) will increase. The real
test at home that faces the Prime
Minister is to resist them—which he must
do if he is to continue with unpopular
policies.
He might with advantage decide, after
his most successful tour, to show himself
more to the people here to give them
the leadership which has been lacking.
For the truth is that the only alternative
Government to the present is of such
fickle quality and so untrustworthy that
it wouldn’t take much to win the
dissentients back.
Rochdale was a shock, but it was not
a sensation like the East Fulham by-
election of an earlier period, when the
Conservatives saw their 14,000 majority
become a majority—for Labor—of 5000.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
'T'HE woman at the upstairs-window
was surprised to see the girl-next-
door at home on a public holiday.
She remarked: “I thought you were
hiking in the mountains with your new
boy-friend.” “What ?” said the girl. “Go
hiking in the mountains with Elvis? That
drip would get bushed in the head-office
of the Rural Bank.” —“0.G.”
❖ ❖'
“Doric”: “Where did you go for your
holiday?” I asked a New Australian.
“Beethoven,” he said. Pretty sure of the
odds against the race that created Woy
Woy and Surfers’ Paradise invoking
Ludwig as patron of a holiday-resort, I
inquired further. The name was “Boat
Haven.”
<s*
“E.H.M.”: Point Lonsdale (Vic.) is a
great place to retire to —there’s no need to
keep up with anyone—not a Jones in
the place.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Victor”: Why does everybody refer
to the broken line on a highway as a
“dotted” line? Surely when a dot is
stretched to upwards of six feet it should
be called a “dash.” American experts
claim marked lanes do most to preserve
life on roads ; they also rate highly flash-
ing amber lights at danger-spots: so
keep well to the left of the dashed lines
and slow-down at the blinking lights.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Yakipan”: Immigration officials in
Melbourne can cope with most European
languages, but the Finn who speaks only
his difficult native tongue has them
floored, as when a Finn arrived and a
fellow-passenger, a Dane, was pointed-
out to the Immigration-officer as knowing
a few words of Finnish. The official
approached the Dane, who was sweating
under the weight of his* suitcases. “You
know Finnish?” -he asked. The man
gawped at him and then panted: “Me?
Feeneesh? Feeneesh be b ! I got two
more bloddy cases yet!”
*> *X+ *>
“Tabba”: A friend of mine asked at the
grocer’s for a tin of ham pate. The
counter-boy looked closely at her, walked
away and brought back a tin which he
smacked on the counter. Looking her
straight in the eye he said, “There’s your
hame payte!” Most home-builders, on
the other hand, are going in for “patty-
ohs.”
*> ❖ *>
“Wusslean”: I raised my old-fashioned
eyebrows when .1 saw what my high-
school youngster was pasting into his
French homework - book a glossy-
magazine picture of a Hollywood blonde.
Later I found the voluptuous outline sur-
rounded with French nouns and arrows
pointing . . . It’s a bit different from the
way I learned French vocabulary—a
lengthy list every night, a test next day,
and an hour’s detention if your memory
failed, but I suppose it’s still not as
drastic as what I’ve heard called “the
only way to learn French.”
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Kerba”: I don’t know whether the
voices of New Australian damsels are
more resonant than those of Old Aus-
tralian damsels or whether the chatterers
reason that since nobody around is likely
to understand their lingo voices need not
be discreetly lowered; but I do know
that it is impossible for me to concentrate
on reading in a train when seated near a
pair of in all other respects quiet and
inoffensive New Australian women. Men-
tioned the problem to a mate. He
claimed it could be solved simply, with-
out boorishness or hard words. At the
first opportunity he gave a demo. The
couple in the three-er with J?im were in
full cry when one noticed "his attitude,
stared, mumbled something to her com-
panion—and the conversation dropped to
pianissimo. All he had done was lean
forward, his head on one side, as though
listening intently.
<* »> *>
“Splodger”: Thoroughly appreciated
“The Man on the Handkerchief,” but
missed the story of Griffo and his
manager, after landing in New York,
passing a newly-opened cafe. Lights
blared and winked its name: Grotto.
Griffo was illiterate, but recognised some-
thing familiar about the letters: “Didn’t
take them long to know I was here! ”
“They can be TOO damned human!"
NET MIGRATION
“The Commonwealth Statistician, Mr. Carver,
said the terms ‘permanent’ an d
migrants caused confusion, and ‘net migration’
statistics were qualified by Australians travelling
abroad.”
While migration swells the nation
And Australians take to travel
The facts of population
Are not easy to unravel:
Are they homing? Are they roaming?
There seems no way of knowing
If they’re going or they’re coming
Or they’re coming or they’re going.
Are we British, Dutch or German
Or Italian ? Though I’d rawer
Not be badgered to determine
(That’s a job for Mr. Carver),
It might help for some farseeing
Politician to declare
The Australian a being
Who is neither here nor there.
Yet the best of definitions
Of “ permanent ’’ is found
In ownership-conditions
Of little plots of ground
With six-foot holes dug on them
And the owners at the bottom
Where a man can count upon them
And you really know you’ve got ’em.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


■jl/TONTHS after the tiniest adult lass
TVA j’ ve seen became engaged to a
hefty young man I noticed she’d
not been wearing her ring. I asked,
“Aren’t you engaged any more?” She
said, “Well, I am, and I’m not. We? were
sitting outside on a hot night, and he kept
leaning on me and going to sleep. I said,
‘Now, Ted, do sit up. I’m tired, too, but
I’m not so rude as to go to sleep when you
call.’ But the fourth time I had to shove
him off I threw my ring at him and
shouted, ‘Here, take your ring ; p’raps that
will remind you that I’m still alive.’ Next
morning I went around to his place and
apologised. He just looked at me, and
so I asked for my ring back. He said,
‘lf you don’t appreciate it any more than
that, you can have it if and when we
are married.’ ” She paused a moment,
then said, “So that’s that. I still go out
with Ted, but I don’t know whether we’re
engaged or not!” —“Lorna Doone.”
*i* ❖ ♦>
“H.T.M.”: Preaching in St. John’s
Cathedral, Brisbane, at the service open-
ing Law Term, Canon Ivor Church urged
his legal listeners to beware the threat to
stable family-life occasioned by the in-
creasing number of divorces ; and there,
indeed, is an opportunity for sacrifice!
A A A.
V V V
“Forme One”: A rush of Sydney
journalists and literary gents, to take
holy orders has been traced to a desire
to qualify for reduced subscriptions to
the new fortnightly “Observer.”
■> *>
“Bo”: Coming to a new suburb, the
parson began his ministry with inter-
ludes in the mid-week social doings which
he termed “periods of potted prayer”; he
was matched, by the brusque character
who, after sitting through his first sermon,
referred to it as “dollops of dehydrated
devotion.”
A A A
V V V
“Tritom”: The London audience view-
ing “The Burmese Harp,” a Japanese war-
film of pacific intent with a story of
Nipponese p.-0.-w. in British hands in
Burma, sat up when an “English” officer
spoke, not in the accents of Sandhurst,
but of Sydney. By the time the third
Aussie voice came through they were
probably thinking Nippon’s film-studios
had been as effectively invaded by our
actors as the West End. My guess is some
of the boys in the Occupation Force had
a Thespian sideline.
♦l* ❖ ♦>
“Pip Tok”: A Perth tennis-player fell
during a pennant elimination-game and
broke his ankle, a serious injury called a
Potts’s fracture; doubly so since his
opponent was a clubmate named David
Potts. The original fracture-Potts was an
English doctor who fell on a slippery
London pavement, sat up and beat-off
would-be first-aiders with his umbrella
until a qualified medico arrived to attend
to him ; a picture somewhat reminiscent
of today’s tennis-players whether they
have fractured their ankles or not.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Geep”: I’ll accept “colorful” as
currently the journalist’s most übiquitous
word (B. 5/2/’5B), and nominate
“recently” as a par. - writer’s most-
scrubbed one. The gentleman with the
blue - pencil is interested in what
happened, not when; nevertheless I
have recently conceived a stubborn urge
to sneak the word past him, just once.
[Well, just once because of “gentleman.”]
❖ * ♦♦♦
“Uramao”: Banks in the old days were
certainly not gloomy places (B.
25/12/’57). In an Otago (N.Z.) town the
manager lived on the premises and
engaged a maid-of-all-work to assist his
wife in the house. The little minx played
practical jokes on the young clerks, and
one day the teller and his fellow-clerk
found the maid in the washhouse
enveloped in steam, bending over the tub.
Each grasping the hem of her skirt, they
quickly drew it over her head and the tub.
Jeering about having got even, they stood
back until the skirt was lowered and
revealed the manager’s wife.
& ❖ <s*
“Ceg”: That par. about hotel-porters
(B. 15/1/’5B) reminded me of the days
of hotel-touts. Some worked the railway-
terminals, and I knew one, an ex-bank-
teller, who got a job on the Port Phillip
Bay paddle-steamers. He used to join
the boat at Port Melbourne, and on the
way down the bay hie would mix with
passengers, recommending the hostelry
which employed him. When I bumped up
against him in the bar on the Hygeia he
told me that as most of his contacts were
made in the bar he found that form of
employment preferable to his erstwhile
bank-duties . . . which in any case were
closed to him. I also seem to remember
a Brisbane hotel which had such a tout
working the railway-station where the
Sydney-express arrived. I think the touts
were paid by results, because they were
insistent that guests booking-in present
the card they handed out.
❖ ❖
“Tom Trout”: Some Italian traffic-
cops really put their souls into their
work, making ecstatic, wide-sweeping
gestures reminiscent of a ham tenor on
the operatic stage. It must be tiring.
Which is probably why you can also
see them standing on a tub at a corner
leaning against the wall and apparently
idle. But in reality one thumb is busy,
flicking a switch at the end of a length
of flex; the switch changes the traffic-
lights.
* ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: It was the oldest shop in the
town, and a sign over the front door
proudly announced “Established 1854.”
Then along came a wretched competitor,
and up went his sign in bright-red paint:
“Established 1958 —No Old Stock.”
*> ❖ ❖
“Mugga Way”: Why do the broad-
casters and some of the newspapers use
that curious expression “set foot on the
soil” of the arrival of eminent persons?
Most of the distinguished never really
put a foot, clad or unclad, on the soil
during their visits to this country. When
Mr. Macmillan passed through on his
way to New Zealand the A.B.C.
announced that he would do the “set foot”
act at Richmond whereas he slept bliss-
fully in the plane during the stopover;
but he remedied the default in Queens-
land by really “setting foot” during an


outdoor barbecue. The Queen Mother
was another of the “setters,” and perhaps
the tarmacs and red carpets and so forth
could substitute for “soil.” However, she
did have some pleasant strolls around
Government House gardens. Still, I sug-
gest that “setting foot” might be all right
for explorers reaching new lands, but
that other persons, however eminent,
might be satisfied merely to “arrive.”
* * ❖
“Croid”: TV really puts the clock back
when you can see a youthful Charles
Boyer and a teenaged Bette Davis
performing. To the girl who goes to the
pictures on Mother’s advice to see such
as an elderly Clark Gable and comes
back to say, “I don’t know what you
could see in him,” Mother has her answer
almost every night in the week.
*l* ❖ ♦>
“Ardoyne”: Passage in an American
short story, describing a law-student’s
reaction to “a high-school drum-
majorette with fair hair and long white
legs”:—
Her supple, highbreasted body made him
think of Rachmaninoff’s Concerto No. 2 in
C Minor.
If they showed him Marilyn he’d pro-
bably find “The Lost Chord.”
i* *2* ►>
“Archaen”: Revising a popular en-
cyclopaedia you get into a state of mind
where you doubt everything. We failed
to make sense of the world-production
figures for some metals, and enlisted a
bright youngster from the accountant’s
staff who finally gave a snort of disgust:
“No wonder you couldn’t work it out,”
he said, pointing to the tables of figures
in the year-book of one of the world’s
most famous reference-works. “These
additions are wrong!” A girl with an
adding-machine confirmed it. You also
discover that the compilers of reference-
“What do you think this is—a GAME!”
“You're missing all the fun!”
works have done a great deal of copying
from each other: typical is a statement
that Cleopatra’s son by Julius Caesar,
Caesarion, “was killed by Mark Antony.”
It seemed strange that Cleopatra would
have accepted Antony as a lover if he
had killed her child, so we looked it up,
to find that Octavian had done the dirty
deed.
❖ ♦♦♦
“Dorian”: A gentleman was given six
months for pinching a girl; not, it must
be understood, removing her: just the
good old literal thumb-and-forefinger
application. Summing-up, the S.M. said
that courts regarded this sort of thing
as a very serious offence, even if, as the
accused had stated, the gisl was cheeky—-
provocation indeed!
❖ ❖ *
“Tom”: Francis William Bourdillon,
whose poem “The Night Has a Thousand
Eyes” was subject of a Service Depart-
ment inquiry (B. 5/2/’5B), was an artist
as well as a poet. Sydney Art Gallery
has at least one painting by him;
“Bideford Sands,” the duel-scene from
Charles Kingsley’s Westward Ho, rudely
adverted to by a modernist art-critic as
“Westward Hokum.”
QUEER QUALIFICATIONS
“With the rise of the dumb, bosomy blonde
bellower, the musicals coming out of Hollywood
have declined sharply. Those who have been
trained in both branches of the art, it seems, are
no longer being recruited.” — TV-producer
Howard Falls.
If in a Hollywood musical
She’d land a featured role, a gal
Will find the going lighter
If she commands a kind of squawk
In place of knowing how to talk.
Having no clue on how to walk
Will make her chances brighter.
If also she can give a squeal
In manner quarter-witted,
It’s clear for the production she’ll
Be eminently fitted.
If she would be a great success —
A howling one —she must possess
No talent whatsoever.
The most disastrous bugaboo
For her to suffer’s an I.Q.
That’s rated pretty high — she’s through
Once she’s accounted clever.
Her bust must measure quite a lot;
Her job will be to stress it.
If any acting gift she’s got,
A “must” is to suppress it.
And if her voice sounds like a crow’s,
Issuing, not from mouth, but nose,
Nullifying enjoyment;
If every singing rule she’ll breach,
And can produce an anguished screech,
As hard as pebbles on a beach,
She’s certain of employment.
If with this horror-instrument
She’ll constantly bombard ’em,
She’ll find that she will consequent -
Ly soar to brilliant stardom !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


T FIRST met Hugh McCrae when he
**- was a student in an architect’s office
in Melbourne, at the turn of the century.
We both attended Paul Bibron’s dancing-
class and there met three handsome
sisters who lived with their widowed
mother in East Melbourne.
I was boarding in the same suburb and
we used to see these girls home through
the romantic Fitzroy Gardens. Hugh
was very attracted to Pansy, youngest
of the trio. She afterwards joined Dan
Barry’s theatrical company, then made
a tremendous hit in London with an act
billed as “Pansy Montague, the Tinted
Statue.” She posed as a Greek goddess
or nymph, nude except for having been
sprayed with a delicately colored wash
. . . We never heard of her after this
phenomenal success.
Architectural studies couldn’t hold one
of McCrae’s temperament. He surpris-
ingly entered upon a course of theological
studies under the guidance of the late
Canon Hughes of St. Peter’s, East Mel-
bourne, but these stopped when he met
with an accident and broke his arm. He
said that the Almighty had intimated
that he was not morally qualified for
the ministry. About this time he showed
me the first poem that he had satisfac-
torily completed; inspired by a fresh
object of his affection.
Hugh McCrae was associated with
Jack Castieau, Norman Lindsay and
“Huia” McLean, a New Zealander, in
launching the “Rambler.” I tagged on
after Hugh and got my journalistic
baptism from this paper when a limerick
and two topical paragraphs from my
labored pen were published.
Years passed, and after a visit to
London and New York Hugh returned
to Sydney. We corresponded inter-
mittently but cordially, and at one stage
I submitted some verses for his opinion.
The outcome was that the poems were
published with a foreword by my warm-
hearted friend and mentor. We met
occasionally when one of us made an
inter-State visit. I remember seeing him
act With Gregan McMahon’s repertory
company. Some of his lines were to be
spoken with a smile, or at most a mild
chuckle, but Hugh’s gusto was irrepres-
sible. His crashing guffaws set the
audience laughing so much that the
play’s action was held up continually.
Gregan thought it was “a bit overdone.”
W. ALLDER MORRISON.
“J.J.A.”: “Wusslean” repeats the
common error that sunflowers follow the
sun (B. 12/2/’5B). They face the east all
day. I had five acres of sunflowers last
year and all I can say in their' favor is
that they didn’t twist.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Kenyas”: At the breakfast-table
Father glanced through the newspaper
and started to comment on the lady of
ancient profession who had tried to
diddle the taxgatherers. Mother frowned,
pursed her lips, shook her head, put on
her “Not-before-the-children-dear” look,
so Pop subsided. But Junior, addressing
across the table the 15-year-old daughter-
of-the-house, came out brightly with,
“Now that’s a profession you wouldn’t
have to do the Leaving for, Sis.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Baggyduds”: “Dolphin” and his
W.R.A.N.s (B. 12/2/’5B) took me back to
Karrakatta (W.A.) about mid-1943. After
some 200 Diggers had snaked through
the R.A.P. for injections, they were
re-formed for an inspection by the M.O.
Three A.W.A.S. came marching across the
gully and tagged on to the end of the
queue. No one cracked a lay, but as the
line edged on feminine intuition must
have come to the rescue; with split-
second unanimity, they fled for the safety
of their quarters. That inspection was to
determine the incidence of, as Heming-
way put it, “the occupational diseases of
soldiers!”
❖ * *
“Senyak”: I had been interested in a
letter written by a friend which appeared
in a morning paper ; later in the day an
old chap seated next to me in the train
handed over a typewritten sheet, saying,
“Excuse me, but would you mind telling
me if that’s the way to spell ‘initiate’?”
Once again fact had proved stranger than
fiction: the word was spelt correctly, but
from the one sentence I got the chance
to take in I could recognise the sheet as
a letter to the editor tearing my friend’s
statements to shreds.
♦> ❖ *
“Sunray”: In the light of “Roomy’s”
remarks about uplift now being con-
sidered necessary aft as well as forrard
(B. 19/2/’5B) it may be opportune to
recall that a bustle was likened to a
historical novel because it was a fictitious
tale based on a stern reality.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Doynest”: A structure once familiar
to commuters in the Kew (Vic.) district
will disappear shortly when the 70-
year-old railway-station at Barker, the
only station on the spur-line from Haw-
thorn to Kew, is demolished. It hasn't
been used since 1952, a bus service having
replaced the passenger-train; but the rust-
ing rails will remain for some time —
they can’t be dismantled without a
special Act of Parliament.
“P.0.M.C.”: I disagree with “Eliza”
(B. 15/1/ ’5B) that tolerance should take
precedence as a woman’s New Year reso-
lution before finding a husband and
learning to drive a car. Tolerance be-
comes a negative virtue once a wife starts
driving her husband’s car —no normal
husband admits that his wife can drive
as well as he; therefore, she simply can’t
drive. Consequently, finding a husband
should come first, learning to drive a car
to the perfection which silences criticism
(however hopeless) should follow, and
trying to tolerate the inextinguishable
male prejudice of the female driving capa-
bilities, last —i.e., the resolutions should
take the order that the divorcee (obviously
experienced) named.
Jk. A. Jk
V V V
A/fOST overworked word in English
just now is “King-size,” applied
to everything from a cigarette to a trade-
in on a TV-receiver, as when our grocei
had a basket of eggs on the counter
ing the sign: “King-size small eggs, ss.
dozen.”—“W.P.T.”


POLITICAL POINTS
During the current Federal session the
banking bills' rejected last year will be
reintroduced, the Governor-General said
in his speech at fhe opening of Parlia-
ment. Labor intends again to oppose
the legislation, and presumably the two
D.L.P. Senators and Q.L.P. Senator
Byrne will again swing along with the
official Opposition on this issue. Whether
the Senate proceedings will again include
a wheel-chair parade and an air-lift of
convalescents depends on the doctors —
medical as well as political variety.
In the event of a second defeat of the
banking bills there’s not likely to be a
repetition of the 1951 double-dissolu-
tion, as the Government can hold a
normal election for half the Senate any
time after July 1, with an odds-on chance
of gaining control of the at present dead-
locked Chamber.
Other bills foreshadowed in the G.-G.’s
speech will make provision for carrying
out the Murray commission’s recom-
mendation for grants totalling £2O
million to universities ; amend the arbi-
tration machinery ; authorise the agree-
ment for a standard rail-link between
Albury and Melbourne; clarify the
position of the C.5.1.R.0. in relation to
rainmaking experiments; authorise a
grant to promote development in
northern Westralia. ~
• •
Re-erection of a trilithon and two
stones in the outer circle of Stonehenge
will cost about £B5OO. It would be inter-
esting to compare this with the invoice
for the original job.
• •
After the D.L.P. executive had
countered Alan Manning’s decision not
to renew his membership by cancelling it
forthwith, three members who had been
supporters of Manning announced their
resignations from the party. They were
Edward Dunn, C. L. Morgan and the
Jlev. Alan Laing. All three professed
themselves disillusioned about the D.L.P.
• •
Sentencing a man to three years’ jail
for having demanded money with menaces
at Darling Harbor railway-yards, Judge
Holden said that in the future he would
not hesitate to order the lash in cases
where anyone was injured by standover
men, The accused was one of a gang
who had been standing-over casual
workers at the yards demanding money
in exchange for a chance of employment
and threatening bodily harm to those
who refused to pay.
Legislation for a ton-mile tax on all
road-transports with a load-capacity of
more than four tons was introduced in
the N. S. Wales Assembly on Wednesday.
Transport Minister Enticknap said the tax
would be imposed on the unladen weight
of the vehicle plus 40 p.c. of its carrying-
capacity at the rate of one-third of a
penny per ton-mile travelled on N. S.
Wales roads. He said the bill followed
closely the Victorian Act which was up-
held by the courts.
Now it’s up to the Opposition to insist
that the proceeds of the tax are devoted
to the upkeep of roads, not used to
bolster-up the accounts of the railways.
• •
Anglicans in Melbourne are angry over
Canberra’s head-tax of £2 in Papua and
New Guinea. They think an income tax
would be more equitable. Some small
Anglican churches support their own
missionaries, and among these is St.
Bartholomew’s, in the not-too-affluent
industrial suburb of Burnley, which will
be up for £lOOO a year for the new tax.
Mission-workers, who could earn £lB
a week or more, are chiefly medical
orderlies, boatmen, native teachers or
craftsmen with a call to the work. They
receive little more than subsistence. If
the tax is persisted with their share of
it may have to be met by the Australian
Board of Missions.
• •
That diamond-and-ruby (imp.) brooch
may not have been the wisest choice as a
gift for the Queen Mother —the N. S.
Wales Government’s present of two
Australian paintings seems far more
appropriate—but Eddie Ward’s charge
that Menzies chose it in order to make
political capital out of the Royal visit
doesn’t make sense. How would such a
gift gain the Government a single vote?
As a vote - catcher surely Eddie’s
suggestion of a hospital-ward would beat
the brooch hands down? Not, of course,
that that idea would be in Ward’s mind
when he raised the subject.
• •
The New England New State Move-
ment has written to Premier Cahill ask-
ing that
(1) a referendum on decentralisation of
government be granted as a preliminary to
the creation of a new State;
(2) contemplated expenditure on satellite
towns be reviewed with the object of divert-
ing funds to extra-metropolitan develop-
ment;
(3) while in America the Premier should
take special steps to interest industrialists
and investors in extra - metropolitan
possibilities;
(4) the housing-programme be realigned
to attract enterprises and population away
from “the dangerous atomic target into
which Sydney has developed.”
Worthy objects, too, but by including
items 2,3, and 4, the petitioners seem
to assume that Cahill will reject No.l.
“Doynest”: Backing down under
pressure of protest—and possibly with
the May State election in mind —the
Victorian Government has agreed to
allow youngsters to keep Angora rabbits
as pets, provided they obtain permits (B.
19/2/’5B). Children who dutifully handed
them over to the Melbourne Zoo can
now produce their permits, identify their
rabbits from the 1000 assorted bunnies
milling around the zoo enclosure, and
take them home —the first occasion on
record of animals being allowed to leave
the zoo to go to private homes.
Quarantine restrictions have been waived
as the temporary inmates have been kept
separate from other animals.
• •
New-car registrations for January
were 4277 lower than in December, but
1092 higher than in January, 1957.
Holdens topped the list with 4285 ; Fords
1803 ; Morris 1060. Total for the month
was 15,877.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Without wishing to
decry the laudable objectives of the
Murray Valley Development League,
why in the name of plain talk did the
recent conference at Shepparton pass such
a mouthful of a resolution, with its
“survival of our Australian integrity in a
predominantly Asiatic and totalitarian
environment,” and “must urgently con-
trive effective policies for much speedier
and more forceful development”? Surely
the delegates could have said that speedy,
full-scale development of the Valley was
crucial for our survival!
• •
Queensland is making an attempt to
grapple with alcoholism. Its director-
general of health, Dr. Fryberg, has gone
on a tour of the U.S., Britain and Sweden
to study advanced methods of treatment
and cure. His proposals will be watched
with interest in other States.
• •
Losses on Cahill’s ferry services were
cut by half in the year ended June 30,
1957, according to the report tabled in
the N. S. Wales Parliament last week.
It wasn’t that they were better patronised
—429,000 fewer passengers were carried
than in the previous year. And it wasn’t
that expenses were cut —they were up
£22,000. That, of course, leaves only one
explanation—higher fares must have
been charged. And, sure enough, so they
were!
• •
“Ex - ACT”: Queensland Premier
Nicklin should be applauded for his
stand against poker-machines. Liquor
laws are to be amended, but Nicklin says
there is “no possible chance of poker-
machines in Queensland.” The decision
should be examined by the N. S. Wales
Government. Clubs in N. S. Wales which
have amassed huge profits while pro-
claiming loudly that they couldn’t live
without the machines should have a look
at the clubs which manage to do so both
in Queensland and nearer home in the
A.C.T.


Who said the Federal Government was
doing nothing about unemployment? The
number of Commonwealth public
servants increased by 4553 last financial
year.
• •
Polling in the Parramatta by-election
will take place on Saturday with Sir Gar-
field Barwick odds-on favorite for the
seat Howard Beale won by 10,000 votes
last time, although Labor’s candidate
Alderman D. J. Mahoney, Mayor of
Parramatta, is expected to improve on
his predecessors’ figures. Independent
A. V. Fenwick is the third candidate.
Following the example set by Dr.
Evatt early in the campaign, Labor
speakers have been using the election as
a try-out for their theme-songs on
unemployment and housing which the full
choir will render at the general election
later in the year. Parramatta hasn’t been
a very fruitful field for the purpose;
there’s very little unemployment in the
area, and the electorate includes large
and successful housing settlements.
Menzies spoke in support of Barwick
on Monday night and Premier Cahill and
Haylen, M.H.R., helped at a Mahoney
meeting last night. At Labor’s final rally
on Thursday night in Parramatta Town
Hall Calwell and Ward will appear in
the duo act for which they were famous
years ago, before the partnership split
over Calwell’s migration policy. Can it
be that there’s been a reconciliation?
• •
W. H. Lonergan, whose tenure of the
Queensland Assembly seat Flinders has
been upset by the Election Tribunal’s
declaration that the election was void,
has until March 10 to appeal. If no
appeal is lodged by that date the tribunal
will inform the Speaker and the seat will
be declared vacant. When the decision
was announced last week Lonergan said
he had not decided whether he would
appeal, but that if there was a by-election
he would contest it and win it.
• •
“Souptail”: Queensland graziers have
been saying their State has some eight-
million ’roos, and that even to “con-
tain” that number it will be necessary to
kill 2j million annually. If those figures
are right, there’s a lot of reason for
removing the royalty payment introduced
by the Gair Government and instituting a
Government bonus of a bob a head on
’roo-skins. A ’roo eats as much as three
sheep, and the graziers would probably
be glad to pay a bit more tax to meet the
cost of encouraging destruction of the
pest on a large and effective scale.
• •
“Actin’’: State squabbling over rail-
gauges, which caused the nuisance in the
first place, is now holding up the conver-
sion work. The unofficial but efficient
“Wentworth committee on standardisa-
tion of gauges” urged that conversion of
the Port Pirie-Broken Hill link should be
the first job undertaken, to create a one-
gauge line across the continent. South
Australia opposes this, and wants con-
version first of its sft. 3in. lines, together
with the corresponding Victorian ones.
But Victoria is more interested in getting
the Melbourne-Albury link with Sydney
finished first —and the wrangling over
priorities is delaying proceedings. It
looks like the old story over again.
• •
Cosgrove’s tenuous majority in the
Tasmanian Parliament is in jeopardy
through a difference of opinion between
Dr. Turnbull, Minister for Health, and
the Cabinet. Turnbull has quarrelled
with his colleagues before and survived,
but this time he has been asked to resign
—and has refused. Next move is up to
caucus.
• •
Grading of Australian wheat instead
of the old-fashioned f.a.q. system is being
urged once more in several quarters, and
especially in Western Australia. The
wheat-cocky who prefers quantity to
quality, naturally enough while the
f.a.q. idea prevails, will continue to object
to grading, but some attention may soon
be essential if overseas markets continue
to dwindle under the competition of sub-
sidised wheat and flour from the U.S. and
several European countries.
• . *
Little interest is shown in Canberra in
the warnings from W.A. about the need
for a naval base on the Indian Ocean.
The former naval officer in charge in
Fremantle, Capt. Bryce Morris, feels that
outports are ruled out because unless
unlimited funds and manpower are
available a naval base must depend
largely on local civil supply, engineering
and ship-repair facilities. He is urging
that the Commonwealth should develop
naval-dockyard facilities opposite the
extensions now being made at Fremantle.
This would allow the local harbor trust
to use in peace-time all but the small
portion needed for local naval vessels,
but would allow its immediate use as a
base in war.
• •
From Canberra:
Although the Parliament’s first meeting for
1958 lasted only two days, Ministers were pleased
for a week’s breathing-space in which to con-
centrate on Parramatta.
Another week of the type of drubbing they
got on employment from the Opposition might
well have called for some awkward explanations
from the hustings.
The official admission that there were
70,000 jobless at the end of January was a
political debating-point too good to be missed
by Labor.
Even some Government back-benchers admit
(privately) that Evatt’s censure-motion calling,
as it does, for the building of more homes,
an immediate and substantial reduction in
migrant intake until the present deficiencies are
removed, the provision of more funds for local-
government and for road-building at least has
public-appeal.
The vote on the motion, due to be taken in
about 10 days’ time, is being looked forward to
with interest.
A NEW JINGOISM
“We don’t want to fight,
Yet, by Jingo, if we do,
We’re short of ships,
We’re short of men,
But we’ll have a bomb or two!”


PERSONAL ITEMS
A Carnegie Corporation travelling-
grant will enable Perth-born A. L. Blakers,
who has been Professor of Mathematics
in the Westralian University since 1950,
to revisit seats of learning in the U.S.
After graduating from the Westralian
University, he went to Princeton (U.S.A.)
on a Hackett studentship, interrupting his
studies to fly with the Royal Canadian
Air Force during the Hitler disturbance.
Returning to Princeton after the war, he
took his Ph.D. there and remained on
the teaching-staff until he was appointed
to a lectureship at Michigan University ;
later going to a similar post at Leigh
University (Pennsylvania). Two years
ago he represented the national committee
of the Australian Academy of Science at a
South Asian conference on mathematical
education in Bombay. The new grant
will finance a study of the training of
mathematics teachers.
• •
Currently on an Australia-wide tour,
for all the world like a London City type
having his eyes widened, Sir Keith Officer,
the Australian who is, in fact, now a City
type —his London directorates include the
E., S. and A. Bank and Australian Estates
Co., Ltd. He is here to renew his know-
ledge not only of the outback branches of
the Australian Estates Co. and city and
country branches of the bank, but to have
a look at the grazing and sugar country.
Officer, who is now a Right-winger of
the Conservatives and still Australia-
minded enough to suggest recently at a
London meeting where all the Right
people were gathered that the Queen
should have a permanent residence in
Commonwealth countries, was Canberra’s
first career diplomat. He represented Aus-
tralia in more countries than any other
member of the diplomatic service, and
he was the first Australian Ambassador t’o
Paris, 1950-55.
One of the most notable of a dis-
tinguished Victorian family, he is an
urbane, impeccable bachelor who is
ageing engagingly. He served with the
Bth Light Horse, the 3rd Light Horse and
the 6th Infantry Brigade in War I, and
won the M.C. and 0.8. E.
• •
“P.D.”: Lindsey Browne, “S. M.
Herald’s” music and theatre critic, who
returned less than a year ago from an
inspection of stage and music in the
U.S., England and Europe, has just flown
to Europe again under less happy circum-
stances. Nancy, his pretty wife, who is
as well known at first nights as “L. 8.,”
has developed a brain-tumor, and Lind-
sey has dropped everything to get her to
Professor Olivecrona in Stockholm for
an operation about the middle of this
month.
A recent visitor to The Bulletin was
Dr. George A. Llano, in Sydney from
the Antarctic in U.S.S. Arneb. An
authority on lichens (which were the
main reason for his trip south), he’s also
an expert on survival, is an associate-
professor on the staff of the Air Univer-
sity at Montgomery, Alabama, and is
research and editorial specialist at the
research institute attached to the Air
University. He has done a good deal of
experimental work on survival on land
and sea —for instance, last November he
was drinking sea-water, a practice he
UP FROM ANTARCTIC
doesn’t recommend, despite the reports
of the French physician Bombard —
and makes the point that thirst at sea is
quite different to thirst on land ; at sea,
although the temptation to drink sea-
water increases the hazards (it’s quite
pleasant, he says; but, apart from
other physiological damage, especially to
the kidneys, the chlorides depress the
mental faculties, and tend to suicide) it
is possible to reduce dehydration by keep-
ing clothes moist. A good deal has been
done recently to make survival at sea
easier by the development of compact
apparatus for purifying salt-water. The
new gadget is made of vinylite-plastic,
transparent—and bobs about in the
water, as a sphere, distilling sea-water.
The other problem, of course, is food
. . , Here, the main problem is to catch
fish.
Algernon Arthur Way retired as
national secretary of the Y.M.C.A. last
Friday after 44 years’ work, but is off to
Hong Kong almost immediately to take
over the secretaryship there while the
incumbent takes long leave, and he then
will put in Y.M.C.A. spells in Japan,
Manila, Singapore and (intrepidly) Indo-
nesia. Ack Way—he was in the Sigs.
before the First War, went off with them,
and naturally became Ack-Ack —was
born in the mining district of Maldon
(Vic.), went to Lee Street (North Carlton)
State school, and was always interested
in work for youths.
Has the Y.M.C.A. progressed as much
since the war as it did in the ’twenties
and ’thirties? Not so much is heard of it
these days, but Ack Way says the
emphasis in recent years has been on
research, training of leaders (at Sydney
college which has been
operating 10 years), and in
the extension of youth-
centres, rather than in erect-
ing buildings. There are
new branch associations
in Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Whyalla, Townsville, Rock-
hampton and youth-centres
in the suburbs in pearly all
the capitals as well as in
growing country towns,
especially those with a high
industrial population.
«?
Robert Rutherford Black-
wood, 51-year-old general-
manager of the Dunlop
Rubber Co. of Australia,
becomes the chief figure in
the establishment of a
second university in Vic-
toria. The State Govern-
ment has appointed him
chairman of the interim
council of the new uni-
versity, and he is expected to
become the first chancellor.
The interim council will
advise the Government on
a site and will select senior
academic and administra-
tive staff, including a vice-
chancellor and faculty
heads. Legislation for the
establishment of the uni-
versity will be brought down in Parlia-
ment in March. This follows a recom-
mendation by the Murray Committee that
Victoria needed a new general university.
Initially, there will be a bias towards
technical studies, but later a medical
school and arts and other faculties will
be added. Education Minister Bloom-
field said the new university would be
equal in status to Melbourne University,
which the Murray Committee found was
badly overcrowded. The new university
will be set in 200 acres of land, some-
where south of the city proper.
• •
A reference on the Other Fellow’s
Mind pages a while back to the Thomas
Holt Homes for the Aged in Sutherland
(N.S.W.) evoked so many inquiries from


all over Australia that The Bulletin was
interested to run down one of the founders
of the scheme —Keith Bates, 37-year-old
Sutherland Shire Councillor and retired
builder. Bates’s first efforts on behalf of
the aged were manifested in the Suther-
land Shire Pensioners’ Welfare Society,
which he and the late Ramsay Sharpe
founded, and which arranged for pen-
sioners in Sutherland to receive a 10 per
cent, rebate on food, clothing, haircuts,
etc., and organised donations of food
and money and the provision of hearing-
aids and other items normally beyond a
pensioner’s budget.
It was obvious, however, that housing
was the pensioners’ worst problem—so
many, with a few hundred pounds
capital, being compelled to spend it in
rent in a year or two —and Bates and
another builder, Gordon Leach, con-
ceived a housing scheme which now has
official blessing. Thomas Holt donated
10 acres of land at Kirrawee, and Bates
and Leach raised the money to build
three cottages thereon. They are already
occupied and the foundations of a fourth
are laid. As soon as the scheme became
a going concern it qualified for for the
£2-for-£l Government subsidy, and, with
the money now in hand, 14 self-contained
units are being built and will be available
to pensioners for £3OO. They are then
theirs for life.
Bates, who was a theatre-manager, was
backed for his start in the building game
by the proprietor of the theatre, Mick
Adams, and has never looked back. A
shire-councillor for five years, he stood
for the Federal seat of Hughes at the last
Federal elections and ran the Labor man,
Les Johnson, very close.
• •
Herewith Dr. Henry Beyron, Knight
of the Order of the North Star and of
the Vasa Order, who is here from
Sweden at the invitation of the Aus-
tralian Dental Association. He is also
collecting data on “occlusion” (which, in
dentists’ language, seems to mean the
relationship between the upper and
lower jaws), a subject on which he is a
IN FROM SWEDEN
world authority. He says, incidentally,
that the aborigines he has examined in
Central Australia have the best
“occlusion” he has ever seen. He speaks-
English fluently, has a happy personality,
and is considered one of the most dis-
tinguished of the Scandinavian dentists
whose specialty is mouth-rehabilitation.
• •
C. C. Swancott (“Swanee” and “Mull-
bong” on Society and Aboriginaiities
pages) dropped in at The Bulletin the
other morning. Born at Ashfield, Syd-
ney, 69 years ago, he’s going pretty
strong: said he’s planning a novel on
the Rouse family. This is on top of an
autobiography, It’s Been Fun, still in
MS. He’s been living in the Brisbane
Water (Gosford) . district for 39 years,
and has recently become the first patron
of the Brisbane Water Historical Society.
He paints, too ; did art with J. S. Watkins
for five or six years.
• •
Fred Kay, the general-manager of
Ansett-A.N.A. who had been with the
Holymans almost since there was an
A.N.A., is calling it a day in aviation
and, at 60, retiring to enjoy himself: a
year’s caravanning in Australia and then
a year’s leisured trip overseas. He put
his money into livestock because he felt,
looking at the figures first-hand, that
aviation companies are run for the
Treasury ; A.N.A. had a turnover of £lO
million yearly and paid £1.5 million in
tax, which included £500,000 at least in
petrol-tax, so there was little left for the
shareholders, even when there was a
margin. These figures persuaded him to
invest personally elsewhere. He has sold-
out his poultry and cattle interests and
his real-estate holdings to Stanley Korman
at a vastly more satisfactory figure than
the shareholders of A.N.A. got from Reg
Ansett. He retains two grazing properties
on the Murray.
• •
“Uramao”: A link with the days when
it was touch-and-go whether the south
island of New Zealand was to be French
or British was severed with the death, at
101, of Mrs. Marie Magdalene Heyward,
at Christchurch (N.Z.). Born at Akaroa,
she was the daughter of Joseph Libeau,
who, as a six-year-old youngster, was
aboard the Comte de Paris when it
arrived at Akaroa in .1840 with the other
French ship, Le Aube. But H.M.S.
Britomart was already there. The
French settlers who elected to remain at
Akaroa proved a fine class of New
Zealander. Mrs. Heyward had 11
children, 55 grandchildren, 142 great-
grandchildren and 11 great-great-grand-
children.
• •
David Exley, press-officer to General
Burns, commander of U.N.E.F., is a New
Zealander who started as a copy-boy on
the Wellington “Evening Post,” graduated
to police-rounds, took his B.A. at Vic-
toria University College in 1950, then
went to Stanford College, California, on
a Fulbright scholarship. Then to Massa-
chusetts, working on the “Christian
HERE FROM GAZA
Science Monitor,” and on to England,
and more newspaper work. Sketched by
Prior in Sydney the other day, Exley was
on his way back to Gaza ; he’s off to
New York in September. He describes
his job as a “rather open” one ; what
you make of it. Looking after visiting
newspapermen seems to be a big part of
it. Asked about plans for the future,
Exley said he thought he’d like to stay
with U.N., although he sometimes has
nostalgic thoughts of a bee-farm in
North Auckland.
• •
R. I. Oehr, LL.B., secretary of Felt
and Textiles of Australia, Ltd., has been
invited to join the council of the Tax-
payers’ Association of Victoria.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, Dr. John Holmes Shaw,
distinguished ear-nose-and-throat surgeon. He
had practised in Melbourne for more than
20 years, was formerly honorary aural surgeon
to the Governor-General, and was for some
years a member of the Victorian State Com-
mittee of the Royal Australasian College of
Surgeons.
In S.A., at 67, Horace Briggs Walker, former
S.A. Registrar of Motor Vehicles and member
of the State Traffic Committee for over 20 years.
In Melbourne, Frank H. J. Archer, former
headmaster of Caulfield Grammar School and
Trinity Grammar School, Sydney.
In S.A., at 68, Spencer Major, noted swimmer
and coach for more than 50 years. Helped to
form the S.A. Amateur Swimming Association,
later becoming a life-member. Among State
champions he coached was Audrey Whitford.


ABORIGINALITIES
SOME deteriorated consumable Govern-
ment stock had to be destroyed, and
it was decided to bury it. The office C. 0.,
a portly man, led the way to the burial-
ground, clutching a typed list. A Treasury
representative followed with a duplicate
list. The large taro-fed chief clerk carried
the triplicate. The boss of the labor staff,
in khaki, carried nothing. The diminutive
laborer, lavalava kilted to his knees,
shouldered a pick and shovel, and walked
last as befitted his menial rank.
When the procession reached the
appointed spot the office C.O. indicated
the position to dig ; the chief clerk passed
the order on to the b. of the 1.5., who
snapped out:
“Eli le mea lea!”
Four pairs of official eyes watched the
little laborer dig a little hole. Three pencils
ticked off the items as the laborer threw
them in. Four zealous public servants
surrounded the hole as he shovelled back
“They’re my stories, and I'm sticking to ’em.”
the earth and patted it down. Four right
feet tested its firmness.
“All happy about that?” asked the
office C.O.
Treasury man and chief clerk agreed.
“Ua ’uma,” said the b. of the l.s.
The laborer shouldered his pick and
shovel. The procession returned and dis-
persed for afternoon-tea, each to a
different venue according to his status.
Joane (Samoa).
* * * *
“Nimrod”: Yugoslavs on the gold-
fields (W.A.) also appreciate the flesh of
the kid (B. 5/2/’5B). Woodcutters out
from Lakewood pay up to £2 for a kid.
They cook the carcass whole, skewering
it on a pole which rests above a bed of
coals on two forked sticks. Then for a
couple of hours everyone puts in a shift
to keep the spit turning, and, while it
is roasting, everyone helps to down
gallons of beer or wine or brandy (both
grape and cherry). It is eaten with salads
doused in oil. Festivities last long after
the kegs cut out, and the sound of the
“squeeze-box” and lugubrious Slavonic
songs go on far into the night.
* * * *
“L. 8.5.”: Old Wiremu, informed that
the charge for his wife’s obituary-notice
would be 3s. an inch, jrubbed his chin
and then shook his head sadly. “Too
much for this Maori. My old woman
very tall —nearly six-feet.”
* * * *
“L.E.M.”: Henry Fletcher (B. 22/1 /’5B)
is not forgotten. Among the country
teenagers of my day he and his Waybacks
were much more popular than Steele
Rudd. Among that isolated community
of kindred souls and many cousins the
favored form of greeting with horse-
women was for many a day: “Do yez like
mustard pickles?” And what about the
feast to welcome Horace, the new school-
teacher and boarder, garbed in his big-
checked - cloth knickerbockers for
cycling? Dad flourished the carving-
knife over the roast pig placed before
him: “This ’ere’s Stumpy-tail, no use for
farrowin’ so fattened her up, topped her
off with oranges.” And the three jam-
tarts that were the instruments of Fate;
whichever Horace chose gave the maker
a prior right in trying to win his affec-
tions : was it not “lemon-and-melon,”
bound round the plate with a single
lovely golden hair from the youngest lass’s
head, that won? Sleep well, Henry
Fletcher ; happy waking!
* * * *
“Geep”: My brother, surveying in
Abyssinia, had to travel a long way from
home to discover a novel use for gum-
leaves. He tells of a night when he
returned to camp to find his tent and
surroundings a seething mass of ants
driven out by heavy rains. His “boys”
immediately brushed the tent clear with
gumleaf brooms, then surrounded it with
an unbroken line of heaped leaves.
Though the ants could be seen, and even
heard, swarming beyond the tent they
made no attempt to cross the leaf-barrier.
They must have been a different species
from those living happily in my back-
yard eucalypt, but they had this in
common; they were reported as not
interested in biting below knee-level.
* * . * *
J
“Dandy Dick”: Old Jake had just come
in from the bottom paddock, trailing
water. “Stopped raining yet?” I asked
him. “Yair,” he growled, “but the clouds
are still sweatin' a bit.”
* * * *
“Swelpme”: The young fellow came
wading out of the channel which gives
that holiday resort the name of The
Entrance (N.S.W.). “Charlie just catches
’em with his hands,” he said, holding up
a good-sized bream. Nothing remarkable
in grabbing a sick fish, I mentally inter-
jected, and would have walked on if
the older man hadn’t hailed from mid-
stream : “A couple more under this rock.”
The young chap moved in thigh-deep;
the older man peered down and said
“There’s his tail sticking out —give me
the towel.” He wrapped it around his
hand, stooped, and brought up another
bream, bigger than the first. No wonder
fishermen give me that look when I try to
tell them I saw it!
Oliver Filter: “Macquarie” (B.
26/2/’5B) shows two signs of advancing
age. First: he wants to argufy—by
quoting one rather ambiguous statement
against the four very definite authorities
I submitted on the measurement of wire-
rope. Second: he wanders from the
subject. 1 simply said that the R.A.N.
uses wire-rope and describes it by cir-
cumference ; I didn’t say what they call
it. If “M.” wants to start an argument
on Naval terminology I regret that my
ear is not available for bashing.
* * * «
“Salmon Gums”: Steam - traction
engines (B. 12/2/’58)? There was one on
a farm I worked on at Kununoppin, in
the W.A. wheatbelt, 30 years ago. It
originally belonged to Barney Lamond,
well-known prospector and explorer, who


( think iv
B£TTt& HANG'Of NOW y
Tuba ■— <m svae
Somßonz tS
TAPPING THIS.
* PHON& « ff


took up a few thousand acres near a
big outcrop known as Yarrogin Rock and
carted his supplies and produce from
and to Kellerberrin, 50 miles away on the
goldfields line. The engine was a massive
affair, immobile when I saw it, but by
all accounts formerly a tiger for scrub-
rolling. Trouble was a tendency to put
it at vegetables that didn’t rightly come
under the heading of scrub, and after
several operators had been nearly brained
by the branches of big salmon-gums, it
became the practice to tie one end of a
piece of string to the driver's foot and
the other end to a gear-lever. The bloke
who told me about it could do so because
the safety device worked and stopped
the tractor when he was knocked from
his seat into the path of the roller,
-* * * *
“Missus J.R.”: .The white butterfly,
chased by the peewee, skimmed the
surface.of the road and the bird pounced
for the kill. It missed, skated several
feet on its chest-feathers, and scored a
line in the gravel with the beak it had
used as a brake. A disillusioned bird
limped off utterly ignoring the butterfly,
which hovered tantalisingly above the
embankment.
• * * *
“Zake”: Bradshaw always warned new
employees that instant dismissal would
be the penalty for carrying liquor on
the property, or even smelling of it. A
months-long drought had dried-up the
big dam in the corner of the south-
boundary paddock and caused cracks six-
inches wide to open up. Then torrential
rain fell, quickly filling the dam. On the
second day of the deluge a seemingly
demented figure was seen to leap out
of an old bomb, rush down to the dam,
strip off and plunge again and again into
the depths. The strange doings brought
the curious trump down to the scene.
As the diver surfaced once again, Brad-
shaw recognised “Nugget” Dodds, who
had been at an outstation for a few days.
“Rain gone to your head, Nugget?” he
asked. “Blast you and your water,”
wailed the sodden Nugget, preparing to
dive once more. . “I’ve got a couple of
bottles of Scotch stuck down there in
them clay cracks, and they must be
closin up fast!”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Anyone got a
vvorking theory as to why some birds
anoint themselves with ants (B. 12/2/’58)?
I’ve seen a number of species indulging
in this practice, and generally the bird
picks up an ant, rubs it over the feathers
and eats it. Some species literally bathe
in ants—they’ll stand over an ant-nest
or trail and rub ants over practically
their whole body, which seems to rule
out the theory that they’re getting rid
of the formic acid before swallowing the
ant. The action could have a dual
purpose. Possibly, millions of years ago,
birds brushed ants on their feathers to
burst the abdomen and release the acid
which they found distasteful, and then
found that the acid had some cleansing
or delousing or invigorating effect on
their feathers or bodies. They continued
and extended the practice until the anting
became as much a part of the process
as the eating. Any other theories?
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Well, I’ve
actually seen a species of bird that flies
backwards and it wasn’t one of those
“I believe a mans home is his castle.”
legendary dust-avoiding crows, either.
More than 2000 ft. up on the rugged slopes
of Mt. Lidgbird on Lord Howe Island,
we saw big white birds, as large as
white cockatoos (but suffused with a
roseate tinge), flying leisurely overhead in
the still, clear air. Mostly they were in
pairs, and every now and then one would
shoot upwards above his mate ; then, with
his wings flapping fast, he would travel
backwards. My mate, an ex-R.A.A.F.
war-pilot, explained: “They go into a
stall; then, as they slip backwards, rather
fast, they flap their wings incessantly,
making it actually backward flight.” With
a screeching reminiscent of black
cockatoos, a pair would repeat this
manoeuvre several times, after which they
would float off together out over the
ocean or down to a cliff-ledge. This
manoeuvre, we learned, was part of the
courting antics of these birds —naturalists
know them as the red-tailed tropic-bird,
but their common name is bosun-bird.
They inhabit the Indian and Pacific
Oceans and live on Lord Howe all the
yeai; and breed there.
* * V *
“Brick E.”: It is hard to make your
shouts heard outsidp- when you’re work-
ing inside a circular concrete tank (B.
29/1/’58); but, contrasted with the fire-
box of a boiler, a tank has the acoustics
of a music-shell. Flat on your tummy
renewing the firebricks under a “drum,”
it becomes somewhat exasperating to hear
every word a gossiping and inattentive
laborer is saying outside while you are
shouting your lungs out for material to
be passed in. The reason for the one-
way passage of sound, of course, is that
the flues drag air and sound into the
firebox, which, together with your own
voice, is swept up the chimney.
WATER SPIDER
Over the sliding waters
She will flash, she will run,
A slender shape on the silver surface
gliding; '
She is there, she is gone.
Gone, with a sudden plunge,
Down to her lair
Among the whirling eddies, the glossy
pebbles,
With her burden of air.
Every hair on her body
With bubbles is strung,
Strings of bright pearls on each slender
thread
Perilously hung;
There in her silken tent
She will take her pleasure
In the watery twilight releasing from its
containers
Her airy treasure ;
And for her waiting brood
Religiously filling
With the vital fluid the dark, secret
chambers
Of her hidden dwelling.
n.z.
ARNOLD WALL.


A S two through-trains halted at Dubbo
(N.S.W.) an old-timer ran along the
platform peering into the carriages of
both and inquiring, “Anyone here from
Queensland? Anyone here from Queens-
land?” “Yair,” someone answered at
last. “What y’ want, mate?” “Lend us
y’r bottle-opener,” begged the old-’un.
He got it, too, that stranger in a southern
land. —“Brownout.”
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: Australian farmers will
be interested in the announcement by a
U.S. steel concern that it will produce
rustless barb-wire. Such a product could
correct that long-tolerated and curious
imbalance of the average fence where
posts and plain wire may be durable for
30 years but where the barb component
is unstrainable in 15.
* * * *
“Baksac”: In an hour’s ramble across
the paddocks I saw seven hawks of four
different sub-species. The first, which
swept in over the hill at fence-post height,
was a smallish bird with swallowlike
wings, emitting a cry that sounded like a
blend of the scissors-grinder’s call and the
drawn-out “Twee-ee” of a guinea-pig. The
next two were bigger, with typical oblong
hawk-wings; they banked and hovered at
around 50ft., dropped to earth as
though shot, or swung away on the wind
to seek other game. The third, rather
bigger than a crow, came in with wings
outspread like square sails, landed on the
ground and immediately took off again,
a rat hanging with drooped legs and tail
from his talons. Lastly came three bigger
birds which, with end-feathers standing
out like stubby fingers on their oblong
wings, wheeled, soared, climbed and
glided in graceful circles, not making one
wing-stroke during the 30 minutes I
watched them.
* * * #
“Kelms”: The ease with which it can
place its egg in position doesn’t particu-
larly interest the cuckoo —all she’s con-
cerned with is getting to an empty nest
at the right time. So far as my observa-
tions go, the cuckoo hen sits quietly
around where there are a number of
nests, each the property of suitable foster-
parents, and as she waits for the egg-
laying urge to become imperative— most
birds pass this waiting time on the nest
—her mate sounds the call which should
warn the true nesters but instead
infuriates them. By the time the cuckoo
is ready to lay she usually has a choice of
nests ; but if the robins, whose nest she’s
had her eye on all along, won’t be
drawn from it, then she’s prepared to
settle for the wren’s domed structure. She
doesn’t have to enter the nest —she’s been
seen to deposit the egg in a domed nest,
which she couldn’t enter, by gripping the
sides of the nest and letting the egg roll
through the opening. In any case she
spends rather less than 10 seconds on the
entire job, so you can rest assured she’s
pretty well mastered the art of invading
any suitable nest.
“I’m telling you, Janet, the leg-hole system makes it much easier to put oh.”
“Harbel”: Reinforcing-steel is the
backbone of concrete, but, when corrosive
fumes or salt atmosphere percolate to
the steel, what should be the strength
becomes the weakness ; then rust-scales
build-up until incredibly large sections of
concrete are burst out. Many buildings
near the sea show this evidence of the
red destroyer. The N.S.W. State
Abattoirs at Homebush, though not near
the coast, has suffered rust damage—
salt-water used for sluicing-down is to
blame in that case. The most curious
example I’ve ever seen, however, was
attributed, rightly or wrongly, to fumes
from a brewery. The archbars in the
affected building had built-up in strata
of rust from an original fin. thickness of
steel to lyin. The amazing thing was
that, although the steel had been eaten
away to less than |in. thick and could
be bent and broken in the hands, the rust
had succeeded in lifting the whole of the
brickwork above the window-heads until
l|in. of daylight could be seen all around
the building.
* * * *
f\SWALD PRYOR’S article about
w “Cornish Curls” (B. 11/12/’57) took
me back to “Yorke’s” Peninsula days of
60 or 70 years ago, and to another musical
phase in Cousin Jack’s story. This was
the brass bands, without which no
Cornish community could exist for a day,
whether “up t’ Moonta” or “over t’
Burra,” where the copper-mines were
flourishing.
My own ancestral line is tied up with
Cornish families —Pryor, Hosking and
Hosken among them—and when old
great-grandfather Joseph Pryor came out
as foreman “engineer-blacksmith” at the
once-famous Burra Burra mines he
carried a cornet and clarinet (and possibly
some other instruments as well) in his
luggage. It wasn’t long before he had a
brass-and-woodwind band formed ; and
his son James kept the tradition going,
founding a band in which all the players
were Pryors or their immediate relatives,
even the youngest being roped-in as
drummer.
Gold-ribboned caps constituted the
“uniform,” as an old photo shows,
although later they aspired to braided
coats and trousers. “Practice” occupied
a ff spare moments, and instruments
would be tootling till well into the early
hours from all parts of the house. When
“sports” or some public “do” happened to
be programmed the band was there, and
was a ]ways ready to perambulate the
town to back up the “curl”-singers or
to play Christmas music on its own.
jt was Q £ one c £ p r y 0r f am ,iy
of Clare (S.A.) that whenever his job
took him to a new town he’d have a brass-
banf formed within a week, a second B-
S rat *e one a few weeks later and a boys
drum-and-fife outfit some time in
between.
South Australia’s German colonists
contributed a lot to choral- and band-
music, but the Cornish migrants from
Penzance, Redruth and all the other parts
of the independent little Duchy added
very considerably to musical culture, too.
W. H. M.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Aljrttl S. White-, A. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Manager.
’Phone: BW 8861. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
SHAREMARKET MOVEMENTS
AUSTRALIAN sharemarkets
continue, on the surface,
in robust humor, but the
strength is mostly in the front-
line stocks, as usual, and the
market is slow to absorb any
quantity of second-line stocks
unless a deal is specially
arranged.
But the B.H.P. issue closed
on a strong note, with most
dealings in the old shares taking
place at near to 445., and the
new lOs.-paids selling at 32s* 6d.
B.H.P. at present (in the share-
market) is a glamor stock, with
all that that description implies.
But its chief inference is that at
present the yield offering is on
the low side.
A concentration of interest
surrounds 1.C.1., A.C.L, 8.H.P.,
Burns Philp, Henry Jones and
a few other top-class stocks
with high potential, in the
shape of bonus-issues, other
issues or higher div.-rate, and
these stocks are regularly
traded, along with other selec-
tions of the fixed-trusts and
institutional investors.
But they offer a low present
yield.
The sharemarket is quick
enough to appreciate the
virtues of any other stock once
they become clear. A case in
point is John Mcllwraith
Industries. For several years
these 10s. shares were bought
without excitement or emotion
at around 195.-225., notwith-
standing a steady, well-covered
12| p.c. div. Then the rate
went to 15 p.c. and the price
to around 265. Later a take-
over offer made to the Cistern
Manufacturing Co., in Queens-
land, attracted attention to
John Mcllwraith, and now, in
spite of the fact that conditions
in the building trade are not as
buoyant as they have been,
Mcllwraith shares have gone
to over 315., and are probably
well worth the money on
current market-values. The
15 p.c. div.-rate has just been
confirmed.
Kandos Cement has been
pointed out on this page as
being good buying (especially
by comparison with Australian
Cement) on a number of
occasions. It fell back to
around 41s. during the reces-
sion in the market in the latter
part of 1957. Now, following
an announcement that the new
plant of Australian Portland
Cement Pty. at Geelong will
be ready by the end oT this
year, and capacity will thereby
be increased from 350,000 tons
to 500,000 tons a year, there
has been a swift rise in the
shares of both Kandos and
Australian Cement, who own
equal interests in the operating-
co. (The plant at Kandos,
N.S.W., has a capacity of about
200,000 tons a year.)
Last week Kandos shares
were sought-after at 505.,
in Sydney, while in Melbourne
Australian Cement continued
to sell at over 50s. In making
the announcement about the
plant, the chairman of Aus-
tralian Cement said that the
increased production would
mean that “the company’s
management of the Victorian
agency for Australian Portland
Cement Pty. would assume
major proportions.” What this
means exactly in relation to
Kandos’s agency arrangements
in N.S.W. is not clear.
The Australian Cement Pty.
group, Sydney or Melbourne
end, appears to have a big
investment potential, and
though the biggest potential is
in Victoria, it is still half-
owned by Kandos in N.S.W.
Mauri Bros, and Thomson,
following a bonus-issue in
1956, has now come to light
with a div.-increase —a lift
from 8 p.c. p.a. to 9 p.c. p.a.
The rate prior to the bonus-
issue was 11 p.c.
There had been a bonus-
issue in 1952, following which
the div.-rate fell to 8 p.c, and
then climbed by 1 p.c. each
year to the 11 p.c. of 1956.
The sharemarket will no
doubt, be speculating as to
whether the same (or similar)
div.-pattern will be followed
during the next two or three
years. They have at least
some grounds now to think
that it will. At last week’s
price of 41s. 6d. for Mauri Bros,
ords. the immediate yield is
4.4 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis.
F. J. Walker has recovered
to 255. following the rains
“Picked him up by the shaving-soap round his ears !”
in N.S.W. and a satisfactory
interim report.
Bradford Cotton Mills,
which fell to 325.-335. at the
time of the Jap. trade-treaty
scare, recovered to 38s. follow-
ing the takeover of Burling-
ton, and has been around
375. recently, ex Is: 3d. div.,
the rate of which has not been
disturbed. The co.’s issue of
8 p.c. notes was heavily sup-
ported and promptly sub-
scribed.
Last week Bradford offered
to take over Burlington’s
500,000 4} p.c. £1 prefs. on the
basis of one Bradford ord. for
two Burlington prefs. With
Burlington prefs. at 13s. in the
market before the offer, the
proposition is an attractive one.
There has been a slight
revival of interest in the
shares of R. B. Davies Indus- ,
tries, Ltd., latest sales being at
18s. 3d. This has been a
disappointing stock after a
promising performance follow-
ing listing about eight years
ago. The co. does not
declare interim dividends or
make an interim report. On
the indications of the last
balance-sheet Yorkshire Fit-
tings (in which R.B.D. has
149,000 shares) would now
appear to be a more profitable
business than its part-parent;
in any case Yorkshire paid an
8 p.c. div., while R.B.D. paid
7 p.c. The investment in York-
shire has the appearance of
becoming a remunerative one
over the years. It is equal to
about a fifth of the R.B.D.
capital.
The market for silver-lead
shares has been depressed
since the announcement of a
10 p.c. shut-down at the
Barrier owing to the fall in
the price of metals. For long-
term holding the scrip in New
Broken Hill Consolidated at
395. is attracting some atten-
tion now.
The patchy, though often
vigorous, support given to
industrial shares at present is
not entirely to be relied on in
view of low yields offering in
cases of “glamor” stocks, and
taking into consideration the
uncertainty that exists in some
major parts of the Australian
economy.
... , . ,
Car P el Manufacturers’ Div.
an i nter i m at the rate
"" of 5 p.c. p.a., Carpet
Manufacturers, Ltd., Sydneyhas
returned to the div.-hst. There
as no div for 1956-57, and
ln th ® Preceding year the rate
™ as dr °PP ed fro f m *° P' c ; to
* P-c.'because of the develop-
me,h price-cutting in the
T de followm S over-importing
by s ome representatives of
U.K. carpet-makers,
___ As in B. 22/1/ 58,


Fuith in the
Future
b
t
i
It seems to me that one of the things we have
to guard against in Australia is that state of
satisfaction with the present which takes little
account of the demands and duties of the future.
Around us we see the economy holding well.
The population grows, industry is spreading, new
mineral wealth is uncovered, the soil is fertile.
When thoughts of the future are stirred we look
trustingly to our national barometers in the price
of wool and the seasonal coming of rain.
More than this will be expected of us in a
world that is passing through a tempest of change;
more than the mere living to this day, or month,
or year.
For instance, beside the fact that so much has
been done to expand the agricultural acreage in the
past ten years—and the record in places has been
strikingly good—we should put the fact that there
are large tracts of virgin land in the well-watered
zones of Australia that are still unused.
To give two examples:
Our scientists have established that in
Queensland and New South Wales alone an area
five times the size of Victoria could be made
productive by the addition of trace elements to
the soil.
Under brigalow scrub in Queensland and
northern New South Wales an estimated 20-million
acres of good-soil land awaits the mechanical
clearing to crops and pastures.
Put that fraction of the challenge to our
resourceful capacity alongside the human wants
that press within the world; alongside the picture
of Britain herself, where 50-million people are
living in an island that could be fitted into
Australia thirty times over, and we then get some
idea of the magnitude of the work that is ahead of
us here.
I believe there is only one way to face it: with
a spirit that knows neither the weight of fear nor
the lift of a false complacency. Faith is the word
for it.
And faith in Australia implies a sharp
awareness to the future—to the lively effort it will
demand, no less than to the rewards it is going
to bring. „
// //<zs7*“**fS
7
Carpet Manufacturers has
established permanent ties with
American and U.K. carpet-
manufacturers, but Australian
shareholders remain in control.
It has recently received
£150,000 as first instalment of
a £350,000 loan from John
Crossley-Carpet Trades (Hold-
ings), Ltd., James Templeton
and Co., Ltd., and their joint-
nominee co., Templecross Hold-
ings, Ltd. Another £lOO,OOO
will be paid on Jan. 1, 1959, and
£lOO,OOO on Jan. 1, 1960. In
July, 1960, the £350,000 will
be converted into shares.
The additional finance will be
used for the completion of the
Loktuft tufted-carpet section,
and will provide working-
capital for that division and the
extra output that will come
from the additional conven-
tional looms installed and
about to be installed.
During the first half of the
current year, chairman Tresco
Rowe reports, sales by Carpet
Manufacturers have increased
and stocks have been
reduced.
The Carnarvon Basin
TN the issue of The Bulletin
A of February 12, 1958, in an
article by Mr. L. Owen, the
words “withdrawal” and
“abandonment” were used in
connection with Wapet’s sus-
pension of operations in the
Carnarvon Basin (W.A.).
Wapet has not abandoned
operations in the area, and
The Bulletin regrets the error.
Exception is also taken to the
expression: “On many previous
occasions, also, 1 have drawn
attention to what I considered
the misuse of time, effort and
money in constructing a
smoothed-out model of the
Birdrong-sandstone horizon.”
This was simply intended as
an expression of geological
opinion, and if any other
inference has been drawn from
it The Bulletin regrets the
fact and offers its apologies.
Newcastle, 1958
[From “Abdul Assiz”]
r THE New Year dawned
hopefully on Newcastle’s
harbor, with much of the
incoming; silt entrapped in the
Hunter upstream. Moreover,
the 300 ft. slag-way, extending
across the mudbanks from the
Stockton ferry-wharf, would
shortly be in use. It was com-
menced in January, 1957, with
the object of relieving the
harbor authorities of dredging
in that area.
A pity that it could not have
been completed for a gala open-
ing on New Year’s Day, but;
there had been trouble as the
slag - wall foundations had
proved very vulnerable to wind
and current and public-works
employees did not like working
on the unprotected causeway in
the wind and the rain. That
the travelling public would have
to suffer that wind and rain
in their long trek to the ferry-
boat was, of course, beside the
point!
The opening was thus
delayed to February 7, but it
had to be postponed to the next
day because the ancient Nep-
tune had not smoothed-off ail
the “lumps” of mud in the
fairway. That was scarcely
surprising, as the Neptune —-
many, many years ' ago—had
been designed for shifting sand.
On February 8, eager crowds
walked along the causeway,
elated by the hope that they
would now be able to reach
Newcastle on time, more or
less. They did so for nine
hours.
Then the returning Edith
Walter — : fickle jade stuck
20yds. off the end of the cause-
way and stayed there until
floated by the rising tide four
hours later. That stoppage
cannot be ascribed to bad luck ;
it was iust the result of mud-
dredging by a sand-dredge.
Stoically the ferry-masters will
return to bulldozing tactics
and keep the channels un-
certainly open with the ferry-
boat screws.
The rains have now brought
down more silt, and the
Richard Vowell, from sheer
cussedness, has burst her
boilers; she will be out of
service six months. The
Pluto, ungracefully reclining in
the mud, is now being salvaged
for scrap. This leaves the
William McKell as the only
serviceable dredge. The silt is
pouring downstream, and the
new Stockton causeway is
cracking.
Southern Hemisphere Oil
[From Li. Owen]
A QUEENSLAND corres-
asks: “Has flow-
oil in commercial quantities
been found to any extent south
of the Equator, and, if so,
where? If not, what is the
reason given for the lack of
oilflow?”
I’ll answer the first question,
which is a factual one, first.
Oil in commercial quantities
has been struck in many locali-
ties south of the Line,
but, by and large, in much


BY APPOINTMENT TO
HEN MAJESTY THE QHEEN,
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS,
JOHN WALKM A SONS L».
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHNNIE
WAkftER
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.134.12
smaller quantities than in the
oilfields north of the Line.
In Ecuador, measurable pro-
duction was obtained in 1917 ;
in 1955 (which is the last year
for which reliable figures are
available) the oil produced
amounted to 450,000 tons.
Peru has been a producer
since 1867 and collected 2.3
million tons during 1955.
In the Argentine Republic,
oil-winning has been going on
since 1889. Production was
4.45 million tons in 1955.
The presence of petroleum
has long been known in Brazil,
and active drilling has been
carried out since 1940. The
1955 production reached
240,000 tons.
The active search for oil in
Chile has continued since 1930 ;
320,000 tons was recovered
during 1955.
The neighboring republic of
Bolivia has been an oil-producer
since 1925 ; the 1955 figure was
350,000 tons.
So much for South America
in southern latitudes.
In the East Indian Archi-
pelago# South Sumatra has been
in the oil game since 1898 and
Java since 1886. The total East
Indian production, south of the
Line, was around 10-million
tons in 1955, as far as can be
estimated.
Dutch New Guinea first
struck commercial oil in 1944 ;
in 1955 production was just
below 500,000 tons.
The search for petroleum in
New Zealand goes back to
1863 ; measurable, but not
really commercial, production
has been recorded.
Thus the current production
south of the Equator reaches
only about 2.3 per cent, of the
world total. Future reserves,
according to the latest estimates,
amount to around 6 per cent,
of the world total.
This relative lack of commer-
cial petroleum deposits in the
Southern Hemisphere has been
the target of much speculation
and theorising—a lot of it mis-
informed —but the most potent
reasons may be summarised as
follows:
(a) The much larger pro-
portion of sea to land ;
( b ) The large proportion of
the existing land-areas taken
up by pre-Cambrian “shields,”
within which the hopes of com-
mercial deposits are negligible ;
(c) The periods of emergence
long even when measured in
terms of geological time—
during which large areas of the
existing land-surfaces were
above sea-level. This reduced,
very considerably, the amount
of deposition of marine sedi-
mentary strata which play
such art important part in the
genesis and preservation of
petroleum. It allowed, also, of
the partial (and sometimes com-
plete)' dissipation, through
surface-seepage, of oil “pools”
existing prior to the emergence.
(d) The relatively small areas
affected by orogenic (mountain-
building) movements. These
orogenic belts have had a pro-
found influence on the segre-
gation of petroleum.
Whilst the factors (a) to (d)
do not necessarily reduce the
prospects of striking com-
mercial oil within some care-
fully culled areas in the
Southern Hemisphere, the suc-
cessful search for oil there does
demand an exploratory tech-
nique which differs substantially
from that which has been gain-
fully employed in the “normal”
oilfields of the Northern Hemi-
sphere.
Hire-purchase
AT the end of September,
1957, balances outstand-
ing in respect of retail hire-
purchase agreements made by
finance business stood at £243
million. This was £24.8
million, or 11.4 per cent.,
greater than the figure for the
end of September, 1956. In the
preceding twelve months the
increase was £21.3 million, or
10.8 p.c. According to pre-
liminary estimates, balances
increased by a further £11.7
million between the end of
September and the end of
November, 1957, the increase in
the corresponding period of
1956 being £7.4 million.
At the end of December, the
public’s debt to h.-tp. com-
panies stood at £262.9 million,
an increase of £B.l million dur-
ing the Christmas month.
Exclusive of hiring charges
and insurance, the amount of
finance provided by finance
businesses under new retail
h.-p. agreements in the Sep-
tember quarter of 1957 was
£5l million compared with
£45.7 million in the September
quarter of 1956. - Provision of
a greater amount of finance
for the purchase of personal
and household goods
accounted for most of the
increase.
Recent quarterly figures and
the latest monthly figures for
the amount of finance provided
are as follows:
New Retail Hire-purchase Agree-
ments.
, Amount Financed ——>
Household
Vehicles, and
Tractors, Plant and Personal
Quarter. Etc. Machinery. Goods.
1956 - £million.
Sept. ...35.3 2.2 8.2
Dec. . . 36.2 2.4 11.3
1957-
March . . 31.9 2.3 11.2
June .. 33.0 2.3 11.5
Sept. .. 35.4 2.1 13.6
1956 {Month of) —
Oct. .. 13.3 0.8 3.4
Nov. . . 12.5 0.9 3.8
1957 (Month of)
Oct. (*). 13.3 1.0 5.3
Nov. (*). 13.5 1.1 5.8
Dec. (*). 14.1 0.9 6.2
* Preliminary estimates.
Westralian Gold, 1957
[From G. Kay]
’yDESTRALIA produces
* * about 70 p.c. of the Com-
monwealth’s gold ; and of the
West’s contribution about 50
p.c. comes from the Golden
Mile—now going into its 65th
year.
In 1905 a dozen of “The
Mile” mines yielded nearly a
million ounces; nowadays,
instead of dozens of companies
there are but four—big ones —
working most of the very same
ground and areas that were
marked-out in the early
'nineties, at the rate of about
If million tons a year. (About
40,0000 z. gold per month).
Miners now attend for their
work at one or other of about
18 shafts that are the travelling-
ways to the working-places;
from about 13 of these shafts
ore is hoisted, with the accent
on electrical equipment and tip-
ping-skips. The miners and
most of the underground
employees are, in these days,
skilled operators of varying
types of mechanical contriv-
ances: air - legs, loaders,
scrapers, hoists, fans, pumps
and the like ; gone long ago
are the bowyangs and skull-
caps ; as also the “banjo,” of
which there is an almost com-
plete absence, for shovels
underground are a rarity.
The West’s total for 1957 is
now reported at 896,682 fine
oz., of value over £AI4
million; which must be
accepted as a very heartening
result—being 84,000 fine oz.
better than for 1956. Not much
when said quickly, but repre-
senting more than £lf million
in value.
The total for W.A. now has
passed 59 -mi 11 io n oz.
(59,045,716) of value exceeding
£403 million.




SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Cat on a Hot Tin Roof”
As someone has already
remarked, in9est is about the
only thing missing from the list
of perversions in this Tennessee
Williams play at the Inde-
pendent, North Sydney.
Possibly Mr. Williams has
reserved that subject for his
next play—he seems to have
used up practically everything
else over the last few years.
In this current effort, which
is set in a bed-sitting room of
a plantation home in the
Mississippi Delta, Big Daddy,
who built the plantation from
practically nothing, is dying of
cancer but has been convinced
that he is suffering from noth-
ing worse than a spastic colon.
He reacts to this glad news by
renouncing his wife and assert-
ing his intention of getting him-
self a mistress to make up for
lost time.
Brick, his favorite son, is
living in an alcoholic mist in
memory of his “noble friend-
ship” with another athlete and
is insanely resentful of sug-
gestions, intended or otherwise,
of any homosexual stain on the
relationship; Brick’s wife,
Margaret, is a tangle of frustra-
tions because Brick prefers his
memories and the sofa to the
double bed.
Big Daddy’s other son,
Gooper, his wife Mae and their
swarm of kids are there to
tie-up the legal aspects of
inheritance when Big Daddy
passes in his chips. The
Reverend Tooker threads his
way through the tangle, piously
reminding everyone what other
wealthy planters have left to
the church in their wills.
Two main crises fester up
out of all this inflammation.
Big Daddy, trying to get to the
bottom of Brick’s troubles, is
unintentionally told that his
number really is up ; what time
it looks as though Gooper and
his wife will be the main
inheritors because Brick and
his wife Margaret are
childless. Then Margaret
announces she is going to have
a baby and, subsequently,
locks Brick’s liquor away from
him and refuses him access to
it until he has done something
to justify her announcement.
The curtain falls as Brick goes
unwillingly to bed and Big
Daddy bellows his death-
agonies from the next room.
Possibly, since mental-hos-
pitals are allegedly more over-
crowded than ever before and
since a frightening proportion
of the American population is
supposed to be in need of
some kind of psychiatric treat-
ment, Mr. Williams might
claim that his play —and others
similar with which he has
preceded it —reflects a signifi-
cant aspect of American life.
On the other hand, it is also
possible that Mr. Williams,
having uncovered a popular
vein of adult morbidity with
“Streetcar” and others, is deter-
mined to work it for every
grain until it peters-out.
There is no denying him his
rights, however, as a clever and
forceful playwright, and, except
for some occasionally irrita-
ting tricks of repetition in his
dialogue, he does succeed in
thumping his audience into
continuous attention. Producer
Doris Fitton made sure that
none of his thumps missed
their mark, and the mental and
physical vitality which is
Williams’s main asset was fully
sustained.
Within the limits imposed
by vaguely unhuman charac-.
ters, the players, headed by
Kevin Brennan (Big Daddy),
Letty Craydon (Big Mama),
Ronald Frazer (Brick), Bettina
Welch (Margaret), Wayne
Polzin (Gooper), and Con-
stance Hobbs (Mae) would
seem to be just what Doctor
Williams ordered.
Ida Haendel
The Polish violinist’s facile
control of technical resource
and the shaping of a monumen-
tal work were exemplified at
their best in the Chaconne
from Bach’s D Minor Partita
at her opening Sydney recital.
The Chaconne, the greatest
piece of music in the literature
for unaccompanied violin, was
built up variation by variation
into a double-stopping monu-
ment of noble proportions, and
at times it seemed as if two
perfectly-synchronised instru-
ments were in action.
Resources of technique were
matched here by eminent
musical thinking.
Bartok’s Six Rumanian
Dances, distilled into charm-
ingly impish folk - music ;
Chausson’s fragile “Poeme,”
notable for the lovely pianis-
simos and the romantic ardor
enveloping it; and Sarasate’s
brilliant “Gypsy Airs,” the
Spanish rhythms played with
a delightful air of abandon
and gaiety, all enabled Miss
Haendel to exploit to the full
her most outstanding gift—the
unfailing production of a
beautiful singing tone.
Raymond Lambert, at the
piano, gave her most creditable
support.
“H.M.S. Pinafore”
“H.M.S. Pinafore” was so
smartly turned out in Brisbane
that it is a pity that this seems
to be a paying-off season before
the current Gilbert and Sullivan
Company goes into mothballs.
The chorus looked bright and
efficient in its Royal Navy
uniforms, and no commander
can ever have been so hand-
somely tailored as Eric Thorn-
ton’s Captain Corcoran.
Terence O’Donoghue was his
long-lost Able Seaman brother,
and the two of them tackled
their parts with a cheerfulness
that was quite infectious.
Like the Marx Brothers,
Gilbert liked to have an elderly
spinster in the cast, and his
humor poked in their direction
always seems a little cruel
today. Modern audiences are
more likely to pity them, much
as they take a sentimental view
of a Shylock. Evelyn Gardiner
came out of retirement to
return to these heavy roles, and
completely avoided mawkish-
ness by making the hard-bitten
Buttercup a formidable virago
though with the customary
heart of gold. She has a stage
personality in the grand
manner and her contralto is still
as deep—less powerful but
never (or hardly ever) failing at
big moments.
Grahame Clifford’s First
Lord of the Admiralty was an
old eccentric with a nervous
shudder and an absurd set of
knee-slapping gyrations. His
mime was very cleverly
managed and was all the richer
for drawing gales of laughter
without interfering with the
dialogue.
The whole company now has
all the polish that a long run
makes possible without any of
the staleness. Their sparkle
brings back life to Gilbert and
Sullivan at a time when it
seemed that traditional pro-
duction was lapsing into
slovenliness. Much of the zest
seems due to conductor Leo
Packer, who kept the tempi
brisk and gave the music little
chance to droop. This sort of
liveliness may well add new
enthusiasts to the ranks of the
G. and S. addicts who, after
all, are beginning to look more
than a little middle-aged.
D. J. M.
“Rigoletto”
[From London]
The opera-goer would be
very surprised, on looking down
the cast, not to find at least
one Australian name. But the
country which, as yet, has no
opera-house of its own has
supplied all the principals for
the Covent Garden revival of
“Rigoletfb.”
Joan Sutherland has been
with us long enough to become,
as it were, one of ourselves and
to enjoy a personal following
appropriate to her talent and
musicianship. It is this latter
quality which was predominant
in her Gilda. Her tone, phras-
ing and nuance were impeccable
and her “Caro Nome,”* despite
the difficult English vowels of
the translation (“Carved upon
my inmost heart”), was superbly
relaxed and sung from that
very “inmost heart.” Perhaps it
is because she gave her full
attention to the lovely music
that her acting seemed rather
expressionless and wooden,
even by operatic standards.
The two others are new-
comers. John Shaw, whose
previous experience has been
confined to Australia, was a
most assured and consistent
Rigoletto, whom he played as
a saddened misfit in late middle-
age, without overemphasis or
excessive histrionics. The “con-
fession” scene with Gilda
before Monterone’s execution
was splendid, but otherwise his
voice tended at times to be
rough and husky.
The arrival of Albert Lance,
by way of Paris, is an exciting
event, for here is a voice of
such limpidity and romantic
freshness as to invite com-
parison with famous tenors of
the past, the more so as he has
a twinkling Italianate stage-
personality. His Duke of
Mantua was hardly in true
character, for it was light,
sunny and quite without
villainy but most dashing and
personable. And if his voice
was not uniform in quality
over its entire range, the higher


iXL
This World Famous Brand it
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packet 9
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in;—^
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies•
SHIPPING -INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
register—especially in the softer
passages showed a trans-
cendent purity of tone. Since
there was some suggestion of
forcing (the voice lost its
purity when loud) it is earnestly
to be hoped that he will not
be overworked.
As with his fellow-newcomer,
Mr. Lance’s phrasing was
erratic and his rhythm un-
certain. But this may well
have been unavoidable, for
conductor and singers were
obviously not in rapport.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Peter Grimes” Revival
li'rom London]
Hearing this opera, as it
were, out of chronological
order is a rewarding and inspir-
ing experience, not least
because it is so much finer than
Benjamin Britten’s later works.
A stage performance of any
kind must have directness and,
however complex its structure,
essential simplicity of appeal if
it is to achieve its purpose —to
entertain, or otherwise com-
mand the concentrated interest
of all manner of people.
A sweeping and oversimpli-
fied condition when applied to
contemporary opera? Perhaps.
But certainly rarely achieved.
Granted, the composer’s task is
as immense as it is time-con-
suming. He must, it seems,
sedulously avoid taking another
as his model, which often leads
him to be esoteric if not idio-
syncratic. And, having formed
his ideas, he then has the
gargantuan labor of working
them out in a thousand pages
of full score. As, in the interim,
he has to live, he must wonder
whether it is worth while.
So, too often, do we, in the
audience. Especially with
Britten, whose talents are con-
spicuous. “Billy Budd,” for
example, had too narrow a
theme. “Gloriana,” besides
having an inadequate and mis-
directed libretto, was too
“difficult” musically for its pur-
pose—to celebrate a Corona-
tion. •
“Peter Grimes” is the excep-
tion, a masterpiece. From the
first phrase, the mood is set and
the attention held, to be sus-
tained right through to the end.
The story, though just as
“local” as that of “Albert Her-
ring” or “Billy Budd,” has
universality. The characterisa-
tion is natural and self-evident.
Montagu Slater’s libretto is at
one with the music. And the
beautifully evocative score is
not overstylised. Here, with
sung dialogue that doesn’t
sound ridiculous and short
arias that don’t hold up the
action, is a work which is not
only original, dramatic and
unusual, but which also bears
the mark of greatness.
In fact, the indifferent pro-
duction at Co vent Garden
only served to bring out that
this greatness is inherent to
the work and not to its per-
formance. No doubt, the exact-
ing demands of “The
Carmelites” have caused
insufficient rehearsal. On the
first night, Rafael Kubelik’s
handling of the score, apart
from the interludes, was unsure
and many of the singers were
inaudible. Also, the production
seemed to be hurried. Owen
Brannigan (Swallow) and Peter
Pears (Grimes) appear in the
roles they created. Other
principals are John Lanigan
(the Rector), Geraint Evans
(Keene), Raymond Nilsson
(Boles), James Pease (Bal-
strode) and Sylvia Fisher
(Ellen).
■if*
“Arsenic and Old Lace”
Canberra Repertory tried
hard to make something out of
Joseph Kesselring’s “Arsenic
and Old Lace.” Actors and
producer obviously thought of
it all as a huge joke— two old
spinsters bumping-off useless
and unhappy members of
society. But the trouble is that
murder never can be funny
and nothing else.
To clown away the prickings
of conscience the audience
must- be kept simpering, titter-
ing, all the time. Some of the
actors contributed to that end.
Peter Steer had that larger-
than-life quality, the power to
evoke surprise as well as
laughter, and, of course, that
all important tug at the heart.
Kevin Flannagan, in a tiny
part at the end, looked quaint
and screwy—a performance
which helped the play to end
on a note of hilarity.
But in the centre, there was
a sag, as though the party
needed livening up. Marjorie
Waugh and Helen Woodger, as
the two dotty sisters, relied on
dress and appearance to create
the atmosphere, and not enough
on posture, grimace and use
of the hands. Perhaps a little
spirited buffoonery, some
cuckoo gestures over the corpse
might have helped.
Harold Brokenshire looked
wicked, but lacked vocal range,
and Alex Lojkine trotted round
the stage nicely as the bad
man’s lap-dog.
M.C.
Artbursts
Blake Prize
Out of the somewhat confus-
ing array of giants, hobgoblins,
symbols, stylisations and
abstracts in the Blake Prize
exhibition at Mark Foy’s,
Sydney, at least one clear trend
manifests itself: and that is
that half-a-dozen of the most
skilful practitioners are
developing a highly effective
style of mural-painting or,
more precisely, paintings that
(without imitating Rouault) get
the effect of the stained-glass
window.
Given their proper distance
and lighting, the two large
paintings by Thomas Gleghorn,
Frank Hodgkinson’s
“Crucifixion and Salvation”
and R. L. Curtis’s “The
Deposition” make the strongest
statement in this way, and any
of them would serve admirably
to decorate a church or public
building.
The problem of the judges, of
course, must always be to find
something that combines this
kind of technical dexterity with


insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 187 2.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney
All Classes Marine, Fire and Aecident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK. Mnnnoor.
Missing Beneficiary
WOULD the wife of LEONARD
AUGUSTUS CLARKE, who died in New
Zealand on 23rd April, 1956, or any
person knowing her whereabouts, please
communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Whangarei, New
Zealand.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO NORMAN THOMAS CORNWALL
late of Barraba.—TAKE NOTICE that
MAVIS CLARE CORNWALL has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4103 of 1957
on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 12th day of May 1958
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from CHARLES GRIFFITHS,
Solicitor, 107-109 Elizabeth Street,
Svdney, New South Wale s. —J.
DOUGH AN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO STANLEY FRANCIS PENNO late
of Wallerawang.—TAKE NOTICE that
GWENDOLINE OLIVE PENNO has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 40 of 1958
On the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 12th day of May 1958
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from CHARLES GRIFFITHS,
Solioitor, 107-109 Elizabeth Street, Syd-
ney, New South Wale s. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN* THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALESIA ENID ROGERS late of
Edward Street South Tamworth. —TAKE
NOTICE that FREDERICK CLYDE
ROGERS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3190 of 1957 on the ground of
desertion without just cause for three
years and upwards If you intend to
defend you may enter an appearance .in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 9th May 1958
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. NEWMAN' &
PENGILLEY, of Tamworth.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO JOHN MAXWELL MAHER late of
51 Dwyer Avenue Little Bay.—TAKE
NOTICE that VALERIE MAY MAHER
has filed Petition for Divorce No. 417
of 1958 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse during
three (3) years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 9th
day of May 1958 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
NICHOLAS RUZA, of 44 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
religious feeling; which is, no
doubt, why they gave first prize
to Eric Smith’s “The Moment
Christ Died,” a softer, perhaps
more deeply felt piece of work,
pleasant in color but, in com-
parison with the others, rather
muddled. Smith has been more
effective in his Rouault-like
portraits of Christ in previous
years.
Out of the group, Gleghorn’s
“The Passion” (awarded third
prize) is the most effective piece
of design and color but there is
little religious feeling to be
detected in it. The ideal com-
bination is in Curtis’s triptych,
where, amongst the soft color
and clear-cut design, some
recognisably dramatic events
are taking place. Bob Dicker-
son’s “T h e Resurrection,”
placed second, is in his
familiar style where overlarge,
overliteral figures stick out in
the foreground like a photo-
montage; a striking enough
effect but crude, and made
intriguing rather than religious
by the fact that the figure
emerging in the Resurrection is
a four-legged man.
Gleghorn is to the fore again
with the first prize in the
Christus Prize, which is
awarded for the best head of
Christ in oils or sculpture. His
entry does indeed stand out,
lull of force ; but, in its indus-
trial style, might equally well
have been entitled “Franken-
stein,” “The Spaceman” or
even “Lenin.”
The most interesting event in
this section—-if one passes by
the sandstone head that has
unfortunately had its nose
broken off in transit —is the
emergence of two sculptors,
Hans Knorr and S. Chromek,
presumably New Australians,
who are working impressively,
1 hough in a heavy, Middle
European style, in wood.
Films
“Crime and Punishment”
Understanding and compas-
sion are evident in every foot
of this sensitively directed
French film-version of the
Dostoievsky classic. The age-
lessness and universality of the
story of a murderer and his
conscience has made it a simple
matter to switch setting and
time from the slums of a 19th-
century Russian city to those of
a 20th-century French one. It
is one of the rare instances in
which a long and involved novel
has been condensed into a
concise screenplay which fully
captures the spirit and the great-
ness of the original.
As the poverty - stricken
student who murders a grasp-
ing old woman-moneylender,
partly because of urgings
beyond his control, and partly
as a violent protest against
deeply felt social injustices,
Robert Rossein gives a
memorable performance. Every
gesture, every expression, every
inflection of his voice reflect
faithfully the sensitive and
tortured soul which Dostoievsky
portrayed. He is a murderer
who excites neither hatred nor
contempt; only pity.
Jean Gabin, as the dogged,
worldly-wise detective patiently
waiting for the one false move
to confirm his suspicions, gives
further proof that he is one of
the most dependable and
accomplished French actors.
Marina Vlady, Bernard Blier,
and Lflla Jacobson complete
as talented a cast as has
appeared in any French film
for years.
At Sydney Vogue.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Damn Citizen”
This direct and simple crime-
drama, with some basis in fact,
concerns the efforts of a deter-
mined and incorruptible police-
superintendent to stamp out a
vice-and-gambling racket run by
a crime-tsar who has the D.A.
and half the police-force on his
payroll. It has something of the
same quality as the old “March
of Time” documentary series,
and the director uses an effec-
tively hard-punching technique
to hammer home all his points.
He is well served in the title-
role —“Damn Citizen” being
the Big Shot’s contemptuous
description of a police-super,
who has not before served in
the force —by an actor of the
strength and character of Keith
Andes, and by Gene Evans as
his equally - bribe - resisting
assistant.
At Sydney Capitol.
❖ *X* ❖
“The Admirable Crichton”
This British film gives fair
enough proof that good fun can
still be wrung from J. M.
Barrie’s satire on stuffy
Edwardian social conventions.
Kenneth More, always at his
best in roles which call for the
carefree manner and easy
swagger, is not altogether con-
vincing as the stiff-necked,
snobbish butler who, in the
purlieus of Belgrave Square,
begs to differ from the advanced
democratic ideas propounded
by Lord Loam ; he js better as
the born leader of the
“awkward squad” of helpless
socialites with whom he is
marooned for two years on a
desert Pacific isle.
Diane Cilento, as the little
Cockney “tweeny” who battles
for her butler against the culti-
vated graces of Lady Mary ;
Martita Hunt as a devastating
dowager ; and Cecil Parker as
the ineffectual and dithering
milord —all do good work.
At Sydney State.
♦> ♦> *t‘
“Devil’s Hairpin”
There are two vital
ingredients for a film dealing
with motor-racing—action and
excitement. For the first 50
minutes of this one at Sydney
Prince Edward not a wheel
rolls, director Cornel Wilde
being too preoccupied in get-
ting the cameras trained in a
series of close-ups of actor
Cornel Wilde as he indulges
in endless barneys with his
mistress. Wilde must be the
tamest racing-driver in screen-
history, and the track scenes
aren't really convincing.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jailhouse Rock”
After having stood about
half-an-hour of this bodgie-
fodder at Sydney St. James,
present commentator tottered
across to the pub opposite the
Supreme Court for a noggin
or two to drown the memories
of Elvis Presley groaning to a
St. Vitus accompaniment. He
also has a fling at dramatic
acting, and that is enough to
make Thespis drag a Bengal
across his jugular.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Day of the Badman”
An incorruptible judge
sentences a vicious, cold-
blooded killer to hang; then
into the frontier-town come
four of his equally vicious
kinsmen to terrorise the towns-
folk and “persuade” the judge
to substitute banishment for
the rope. Townsfolk weaken,
judge sits pat, so they maroon
the Law in his own house and
reach for their gats, he for his
defending rifle. Four defunct
kinsmen later he reaches for
his girl, he still being entirely
undamaged. Some judge! It’s
Fred Mac Murray. A bit better
than average.


The WILD CAL
COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association
ATTRACTED by the unique advan-
tages of life-assurance as a method
of saving and investment, Australians,
as a whole, paid-out £92.4 million in
premiums on life-policies in the last
financial year, or £8.3 million more than
the amount paid in 1955-56, the sum
assured under more than 500,000 new
policies rising by £57.9 million to £425.3
million.
While inflation has contributed to a
spectacular leap in the value of assurance
business over the last decade, tax-con-
cessions, the growth of co.-sponsored
staff-superannuation schemes and a
greater appreciation of the investment-
value of assurance have all played a
large part in providing the record
amounts of new business written by the
big life-offices in recent years.
Competitive rates and good bonuses,
backed by enterprising management and
sound finances, have enabled the
National Mutual to take full advantage
of the growing interest in assurance, the
sum provided for under ordinary-life
contracts (the co. doesn’t handle indus-
trial business) jumping from £184.8
million in 1948 to £536.1 million at the
end of last term.
The 88-year-old National Mutual is
one of the largest of the big Australian
mutual life-offices, completing the year
to September 30 last with total assets
conservatively valued at £138.2 million.
The co. has branches in U.K., South
Africa and Ceylon but writes the bulk
of its business in Australia and New
Zealand. An interesting development
early in the current term was the forma-
tion of National Mutual Fire Insurance
Co., Ltd., to underwrite fire and accident
risks in Australia and, eventually, over-
seas. As the parent co. is a mutual con-
cern, holders of life-policies should ulti-
mately benefit from profits won by the
insurance-offshoot.
New business reached record levels
(once again) last term with the issue of
74,825 (up 3394) policies assuring £92.5
million (up £13.1 million):
f —Year to Sept. 30 ——— N
New business — 1955. 1956. 1957.
Policies .. 61,872 71,431 74,825
Amount . . £66,323,373 £79,464,240 £92,504,591
Total income .. 18,019,906 19,746,412 21,995,260
Total assets .. 116,997,240 126,531,960 138,296,827
The expansion and formation of super-
annuation-funds continued to account
for a “substantial” proportion of the
new contracts.
After deducting reassurances and
taxes on rents, diys., etc., income for the
year was £2.2 million higher at a shade
under £22 million, of which £5.4 million
(net) came in as interest, rent or
dividends:
Added
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Life Fund.
£ £ £ £
1663.. 14,663,089 6.788,347 1,797,667 "1
Written off assets, £59,346 .. 6,768,168
Exchange adjustment, £249,576
1954.. 16,101,018 6,432,307 1,931,673
Written off assets, £47,812 .. ■ 7,341,911
Exchange adjustment, £347,315,
From tax reserve, £150,000
1955. .18,019,906 7,077,431 2,121,855
Written off assets, £60,660 . . • 8,409,960
Exchange adjustment, £200,000..
To contingencies res., £300,000..
1956. .19,746,412 7,550,605 2,394,838 ’
Written-off assets, £29,075 .. 9,733,744
Exchange adjustment, £38,150 ..
1957. .21,995,260 7,948,238 2,725,174'
Written-off assets, £45,525 . . . - 11,098,411
Exchange adjustment, £177,912. . J
* Includes licences, fees and contribution to staff
fund, etc.
Management expenses and commissions
absorbed 11.82 p.c. (up 7s. sd. p.c.) of
the total net income, but, after writing-
down assets by £45,525 (up £16,450),
sending £74,684 (down £16,152) to staff-
funds and meeting an extra £397,633 of
claims, a healthy-looking £11,098,411 (up
£1,364,667) was added to the assurance
fund, taking it to £129,679,070. Con-
tingency and other reserves were un-
changed at £4,105,061.
The net rate of interest earned on the
assurance fund increased by 2s. Bd. p.c.
to £4 10s. sd. p.c., the widening margin
between the 2\ p.c. earning - rate
assumed in estimating policy-liabilities
and the rate actually earned permitting
bonuses to be allotted on a scale materi-
ally higher” than that adopted in 1955
and 1956.
The valuation of liabilities disclosed a
surplus in the assurance fund of
£3,907,239, excluding the £462,891
brought forward from the previous
term:
Triennial
Valuation. Annual Valuation.
30/9/’55. 30/9/’56. 30/9/’57.
Brought forward.. £279,107 £201,949 £402,891
Total surplus .• 8,324,784 3,788,996 3,90 1, 239
Appropriation-
Bonuses .. 8,101,942 3,528,054 3,856,000
Conting. reserve .. 300,060 -
Carried forward .. 201,949 462,891 514,130
Compound reversionary bonuses
absorbed £3,856,000 of this surplus,
leaving £514,130 to be carried forward.
Changes in the investment-pattern
during the year should strengthen future
investment-income:
f 1956 * 1957 \
£ p.c. £ p.c.
Freeholds .. 4,460,307 3.5 5,177,720 3.7
Govt, securities* 51,387,211 40.6 52,475,804 38.0
Debentures .. 6,111,783 4.8 6,812,407 4.9
Mortgages .. 47,636,208 37.7 52,919,986 38.3
Loans on policies 6,616,389 5.2 7,296,697 5.3
Shares other cos. 5,129,437 4.1 8,184,618 5.9
Shares building
societies .. 2,455,097 1.9 2,505,673 1.8
Other assets .. 2,734,628 2.2 2,923,922 2.1
Total assets 126,531,060 100.0 138,296,827 100.0
Liabilities'!- .. 3,845,340 4,512,696
Net assets ..122,685,720 133,784,131
* Includes semi-Government loans, etc.
| Excluding liabilities under policies.
Loans on mortgage (up £5,283,778),
including home-purchase loans, displaced
Government securities (up £1,088,593) as
the largest item in the balance-sheet,
£3,055,181 of the £11,765,767 increase in
total assets going into shares in other
cos.
- The board claims that at balance-
date “no less than £32 million” was
invested in home-purchase loans, Aus-
tralian homebuilders receiving approxi-
mately £3.5 million of the £5.5 million
put into housing-loans over the term.
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
JETTING away to a good start last
term, Lincoln Mills (Australia),
Ltd., raised its interim div.-rate from 4
p.c. to 6 p.c., but a mild winter and the
drift in wool prices reversed the trend of
earnings in the last four months of the
year (to September 30), and final
accounts show net profit down by over
12 p.c.
Nevertheless, ord.-shareholders
collected an extra 1 p.c. on their hold-
ings, the 4 p.c. final div., sent out last
week, lifting the total distribution for
the year to 10 p.c., and the average div.-
rate for the past five years to 8.4 p.c.
The 35-year-old Victorian co. supplies
the knitting industry with a variety of
worsted and worsted-type yarns spun
from wool and synthetic fibres, as well
as turning-out its own range of knitted
garments, nylon hosiery, etc. Branch
mills in the neighboring Victorian
towns of Woodend, Kyneton and Gis-
borne supplement output from the main
Coburg (Melbourne) mill.
Although earnings in the past three
terms have failed to reach the peak
figure recorded in 1954, Lincoln Mills
has given a reasonably good account of
itself in the post-war period, despite
strong competition from local and, on
occasions, foreign manufacturers and
the risks involved in anticipating wool
prices and fashion trends.
A one-for-one bonus issue in 1950 and
a par issue in the following year raised
ord. capital by over 500 p.c. However,
early difficulties have left their mark on
the capital-structure (80 p.c. of the ord.
capital was written-off in 1925), the co.’s
f.-p. Bs. ords. accounting for only
£487,548 of the £1,062,548 paid capital.
Of the balance, £400,000 is in 9 p.c. prefs.
and £175,000 in redeemable 5 p.c. prefs.
Held by the Colonial Mutual Life
Society, the 5 p.c. prefs. (originally there
were 350,000 of them) are being redeemed
in annual instalments, the final repay-
ment falling due in June, 1960.
Trading conditions were “extremely
competitive” last term, but both the
value and volume of turnover improved,
a higher yam output including slightly
more blends of wool and synthetic fibres.
However, overall production tended to
outstrip sales in the latter half of the
year, repeat-orders for the winter range
being limited by the mild weather
experienced in most parts of Australia,
while a steady decline in wool prices
affected stock-values and led many
customers to adopt a cautious buying-
policy.
After providing £79,500 (down
£35,250) for taxation and £67,226 (up
£8131) for depreciation, and valuing the
larger stocks at “not more than” the
lowest of replacement, market or cost


INVEST IN THE SECURITY OF
QUEENSLAND'S RURAL .
HIRE PURCHASE FINANCE !
INTEREST RATES OFFERED
5 Years />•«•
zj. Years 0% /'•"•
3 Vears. 8%
Up to £5OO on call. £5OO-£l,OOO Short Call 121 days). In excess of £l,OOO by arrangement.
INTEREST PAID FREE OF EXCHANCE QUARTERLY
Priority Given to Depositor* over Shareholders.
OFFICES FOR LODGMENT:
SYDNEY: Griffiths, Grill, Love fir Co. Chartered Accts. (Aust.) 316 Pitt St. MA9414
BRISBANE: Finance Company of Queensland Ltd. 443 Adelaide St. 81984
T BANKERS: Bank of New South Wales, Eagle St., Brisbane *1
L SOLICITORS: Morris, Fletcher fir Cross, Adelaide St.. Brisbane J
FINANCE COMPANY of QUEENSLAND limited
ONE OF THE LARGEST QUEENSLAND HIRE PURCHASE COMPANIES
LISTED ON THE BRISBANE STOCK EXCHANGE. ASSETS IN EXCESS OF £350,000
RECD. OFFICE:
Buxacott House,
443 Adelaide St
BRISBANE
POST COUPON FOR DETAILS
OF LOAN AND COMPANY
To: The Secretary, Finance Company of Queensland Limited.
Please forward me further details of your Company's Loan.
This request places me under no obligation whatsoever.
NAME ...
ADDRESS
n. ...
prices, net profit fell by £18,941 to
£132,976:
, —Dividends—
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 9& 5 p.c. 3J p.c. senes. senes.*
£ £ £ £ £
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 402,897
Capital profits, £9151 .. .. 412,048
6} p.c.
1953.. 126,935 53,500 30,472 42,963 455,011
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 445,011
Capital profit, £1553 .. .. .. 446,564
8J p.c.
1954.. 170,705 51,417 40,629 78,659 525,223
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 515,223
Sept., 2 p.c.
1954 f. 26,836 12,125 9,751 4,960 520,183
81 p.c.
1955.. 134,566 48,187 40,629 45,750 565,933
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 555,933
9 p.c.
1956.. 151,917 46,938 43,879 61,100 607,033
Surplus on revaluation of freeholds,
£474,712 1,081,745
Tax overprovided, £11,775 .. .. 1,093,520
To prov. long-service leave, £47,128 1,046,392
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,036.392
1957.. 132,976 45,687 48,755 38,534 1,074,926
f Three months.
The bigger ord. div. was well covered,
earnings, after meeting the slightly
smaller pref. commitment, representing
17.9 p.c. on ord. capital, compared with
21.5, 17.7, 24.4 and 15 p.c. in the four
preceding terms. A provision for long-
service leave was raised during the term,
£47,128 being transferred from reserves
for the purpose.
Following revaluation of the Coburg
property the book-value of freeholds was
increased by £474,712, of which £109,688,
representing the amount previously pro-
vided against depreciation of the
property, was set aside to help meet the
increased cost of plant-replacement and
£365,024 credited to a revaluation
reserve. The directors, “at the present
juncture, do not propose to capitalise
this reserve.”
The extent to which variations in the
price of wool can affect trading results is
well illustrated by the balance-sheet,
stocks (up £257,044) accounting for
almost 55 p.c. of the value given to total
assets: —
Capital— 195.3. 1956. 1957.
Pref £625,000 £600,000 £575,000
Ord 487,548 487,548 .487,548
Reserves .. • .. 555,933 607,033 1,074,926
Overdraft . . .. 294,280 451,741 946,526
Creditors, etc.* .. 138,910 255,901 154,024
Staff fund .. 10,000 10,000 10,000
Tax-provision .. 65,979 126,819 79,500
Final divs. . . 51,940 49,690 44,189
£2,229,590 £2.588,732 £3,371,713
Freeholds .. .. 128,252 129,124 600,000
Plant .. .. 410,930 464,228 480,697
Shares .. ~ 2,248 2,248 8,498
Stock .. .. 1,337,532 1,566,954 1,823.998
Debtors .. .. 342,090 392,267 416,134
Cash .. .. 8,538 33,911 42,386
£2,229,590 £2,588,732 £3,371,713
* Includes ‘‘sundry provisions.”
The increase in stocks and a £101,877
reduction in the amount owing to
creditors, etc., sent the co. to the bank
for an extra £494,785, the overdraft
rising to a sizeable £946,526. Revalua-
tion was responsible for most of the
£487,345 added to the book-value of
fixed assets, capital - expenditure
(£75,726) exceeding the provision for
depreciation by only £B5OO.
The directors say that the co. is
currently securing its “full share of the
business offering,” but, on present indi-
cations, production over the next few
months seems likely to continue at a
level below that obtained in the corres-
ponding period last term, while the
trade-agreement with Japan could lead
to increased competition from that
quarter. (The knitting- and spinning-
industries recently requested the Tariff
Board to recommend a higher duty on
imported woollen goods, and the applica-
tion will be considered by the board
within the next few weeks.)
At Bs. 6d. the f.-p. Bs. ords. would
return £9 Bs. 3d. p.c. from a 10 p.c. div.,
the prefs. yielding £8 3s. Bd. at 225. Net
tangible backing at September 30 last
was £4 14s. 6d. prefs. and 245. sd.
ords.


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
%=3
O.
INCOME
PROTECTION
for
Professional
Men
Every professional
man owes it to him-
self and his family to
enquire about “Table
32”
PERSONAL
ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS
INSURANCE
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD. (Inc. in Qld., 1895)
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
Malleys, Ltd.
'T'HE range of products turned
out by the Sydney-based
manufacturer, Malleys, Ltd.,
has been extended over the last
six or seven years to include
washing - machines, electric
stoves and kerosene room-
heaters. Apart from a sharp
fall in 1954, earnings appear to
have responded well to the
introduction of these, and other,
new lines.
Basically a sheet - metal
engineer, the co. also manu-
factures sheet-metal products
for the building and plumbing
trades, ventilation - equipment,
bath-heaters, wash - boilers,
storage containers, etc., at fac-
tories in the Sydney suburbs of
Alexandria and Auburn.
Malleys withdrew from the
retail field in 1951, and branches
in Melbourne, Brisbane and
Adelaide now assist the co. to
supply distributors throughout
Australia.
Freeholds were revalued in
1950 and bonus scrip handed
out (one-for-two) in the follow-
ing year, a one-for-four par
issue in 1955 raising paid capital
to £934,713. There are 30,000
£l9 p.c. prefs. The ord. div.-
rate was dropped from 10 to 8
p.c. after the bonus-issue, the
higher rate being restored in
1956.
Closely linked with the build-
ing industry, the co. found
trading conditions “somewhat
difficult” last term (to June 30,
1957). Still, turnover (undis-
closed) doesn’t appear to have
suffered to any extent, while net
earnings advanced by £4551
to a record £177,563, after pro-
viding £29,784 (up £5255) for
depreciation and an unstated
amount for taxation:
f Dividends
Pref. Re-
Jne., Profit. 9 p.c. r Ord. N serves.f
£ £ p.c. £ £
Share premiums, £3654 .. 300,534
Capita] profit, £533.. .. 301,067
’53.. 63,078 2400 8 = 57,028 304,717
Reserves disappear, £4460.. 300,257
*54.. 42,247 2700 8 = 57,028 282,776
To bad debts reserve, £7908 274,868
Capital loss, £6516 . . . . 268,352
*55..128,596 2700 8 = 63,933 330,315
Share-issue exes., £4524 .. 325,791
Capital profit, £1427 .. 327,218
’56..173,012 2700 10 = 90,471 407,059
Written-off subsidiary assets,
£17,550 389,509
’57.-177,563 2700 10 = 90,472 473,900
t After deducting intangibles, £22,682
at 30/6/’o7.
Worth 12.7 p.c. on average
shareholders’ funds, the higher
profit covered the pref. div. and
19.3 p.c. on ord. capital, as
against 18.9, 15.7 and 5.5 p.c.
back to 1954.
The absorption of subsidiary
cos., commenced some years
ago, was completed last term
by the voluntary liquidation of
A. Joyce and Co. Pty. (Melb.)
and John Roberts Pty. (Sydney).
The substitution in the parent’s
accounts of the assets taken
over (“at a conservative valua-
tion”) for the £180,302 share-
holding in these olf shoots
resulted in capital reserves fall-
ing by £17,550.
Finances were in good shape
at the end of the term:
1956. 1957.
Paid capital . . £934,713 £934,713
Reserves .. 429,742 496,582
Mortgages ... 48,800 47,200
Overdraft . . 226,911 313,367
Creditors, etc.*.. 377,190 320,270
Final divs. . . 90,471 45,236
£2,107,827 £2,157,368
Freeholds, etc. .. 302,246 416,814
Plant, etc. .‘. 316,558 459,834
Shareholdings . . 180,302
Stocks . . .. 692,164 693,522
Book debts . . 592,601 562,808
Cash, etc. .. 1,274 1,708
Intangibles .. 22,682 22,682
£2,107,827 £2,157,368
* Includes provision for taxation.
Erection of an additional fac-
tory on the 11-acre property at
Auburn and the inclusion of
assets previously owned by
subsidiaries accounted for most
of the net £257,844 added to
the book-value of fixed assets.
To provide the additional
funds needed to finance the
capital-expenditure and lop
£56,920 off the amount stand-
ing against creditors and tax-
provision, the co. drew on the
bank for an extra £86,456.
A satisfactory turnover was
obtained in the early months
of the current term, an interim
div. (steady at 5 p.c.) going to
those on the books on March
14 next.
Each f.-p. £1 ord. was
supported by net tangible
assets of 30s. 6d. at June 30
last, the scrip, at 295. l|d. cum
div., giving an effective return
of £7 2s. 3d. p.c. from a 10 p.c.
distribution.
Carapark Productions
A PPARENTLY too novel an
investment-medium for the
generality of investors, scrip in
this mass-producer and hirer
of caravans, like that of its
financier-twin, Carapark and
General Finance, Ltd., has long
been floating around at
bargain - basement quotes.
Having touched 4s. in 1957,
Carapark’s ss. ords. are now
firmer at ss. 4d., yielding 9.4
p.c. from the 10 p.c. div.-rate,
repeated for the third succes-
sive year.
Refuting the sharemarket’s
assessment, results throughout
the co.’s 11-year career have
been consistent and encourag-
ing, as shown by the earning-
rates on ordinary capital since
1951—10.2 p.c. 10.2, 10.6, 16.1,
19.1, 20.4 and 16.4 p.c. (1957).
During the same period, net
tangible assets have grown from
SS. 2d. tO 7S. sd. for each
ordinary share
3 *
Due, according to the chair-
man, to the “necessary retool-
ing required for the production
of new models,” net earnings
suffered a setback of £4385 last
year, £19,025 being claimed,
clear of an unstated charge for
depreciation and an £11,137
• • 7
tax-provision:
Consolidated Figures.
r r—-Dividends
June Pref. Re-
30. Profit. 5 p.c. Ord. serves.
1951.. 7,231 1030 10 p.c.= 6,100 5,935
1952. . 1030 xii 16,404
1953.. 844 1030 8 p.c.= 8,200 19,018
1954.. 909 1030 8 „ „ 8,490 26,407
Formation exp. w/off, £2400 24,007
1955.. 22.113 1030 10 p.c.=:10,975 34,115
Unexplained addition, £4O . . 34,155
1956. . 410 1030 io p.c.=io,97a 45,560
1957.. 025 1030 10 „,, 10,975 52,580
An interim report covering the
first six months of the current
year, however, claims that both
profit and turnover have shown
a 20 p.c. increase on the corre-
sponding half-year of last term,
and with unfilled orders suffi-
cient to maintain full produc-
tion for the remainder of the
term, the present div.-scale
seems likely to be maintained.
A pioneer big-time producer
in its chosen field, Carapark
was registered in April, 1947,
under the style of Caravan
Park, Ltd. At the time of
’Change-listing in 1950, paid
capital was £73,323, subse-
quently increased to the present
£130,350 by par issues in 1951
and 1955. Of this amount,
£20,600 is in 5 p.c. cumulative
preference shares participating
by an extra 1 p.c. after 15 p.c.
has been paid on the ords.:
Paid capital _ l9ss . 1956 . 1967 .
Pref. . . £20,600 £20.600 £20,6U0
ord - • • 109 < 750 109,750 109,750
Reserves . . 34,115 45,560 52,580
Overdraft . 47,523 57,885 64,051
creditors . 82,186 50, 821 67,954
sion .. i 5 ,267 23,948 25,732
Final div. 6,003 6,002 6,002
£318,444 £344,566 £346,719
Freeholds
pS'S* 5 “' MB 60 ’ 918
„ fleet •• 63,965 57,704 56,492
Stocks
w.-i.-p. . 143,916 153,015 149,677
Debtois ~ 35,891 65,602 74,558
Investments 4,000 4,732
Cash .. 4,025 4,597 282
£318,444 £344 566 £346 719
. ’ £346,719
With the bulk of floating assets
I-PTO/i <l*7s nnwrir*' £ . i
(£224,517) Consisting of Stocks
and work-in-process, £149 677
f U e cf) » wrvr c; n „ ,4
lne S wor^ln g ratio IS 1.37
to 1 ; but the co. appears to
have had sufficient financial
elbow-room on an even tighter
basis in previous years. Most
notable trend is the rise in
book-debts, which at £74,558
are more than double the 1955
figure of £35,891. Provision
f° r co --tax at £25,782 suggests
that the co. has rather more
than visible reserves up its
sleeve.
From its production-line at
Mayfield (N.S.W.) Carapark
turns out caravans and acces-
sories for industrial, commer-
cial and private application,
specialising in the installation
of hire-fleets and caravan-parks
cum motels. One such motel is
operated by the co. at Carra-
mar (N.S.W.).
Caravan-building is far from
being exclusively a luxury
industry, and commercial


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Establi;hed 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England, )
N.B.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Cjollins Street, Melbourne
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
production is the most impor-
tant side of the business,
embracing mobile laboratories,
canteens, libraries, sleeping-
quarters, “ablution - units,”
clinics and numerous similar
units. This sphere of opera-
tions is still substantially unex-
ploited, and with advantages of
scale over competitors and 50
p.c. of the Australian market,
Carapark is confident of an
assured and expanding market
for the next few years at least.
Carapark and General
Finance
A MORE pedestrian per-
former than its compeer,
Carapark and General Finance
to date has contrived to satisfy
its shareholders only at the
expense of reserve-building.
Dividend-rate has averaged 8.6
p.c. since 1952, and 10 p.c. for
the last five terms, but m seven
years of operations net tangible
assets have grown by only Bd.
on each ss. share.
Admittedly, capital - intake
has been gradual. Subscribed
capital on formation in 1950
was only £30,000, which has
since grown to £104,258, partly
as a result of the absorption of
two small finance-houses,
Market Investments, Ltd., and
Copal Investments, Ltd. Until
February, 1955, the co. was
listed as Caravan Credits, Ltd.
That the co.’s slow pace is
not due fundamentally to any
dearth of finance-seekers is
indicated by the upward-reach-
ing debtor position, which has
been given more rein by the
current acceptance of deposits
at call (rates 8 p.c. -8i p.c.
p.a.), to the value of £36,412
at last balance-day. The still-
evident disparity between rela-
tively cheap outside money and
shareholders’ funds does
suggest, however, that the
board has been a little con-
servative in its gearing of share-
capital to outside money.
Apart from deposits, the
significant item in the balance-
sheet is book-debts, which rose
by £44,273 to £185,000:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £104,258 £104,258
Reserves .. .. 13,099 16,603
Outside interests .. 925' 1,027
Overdraft .. .. 10,011 14,620
Creditors .. .. 626 1,130
Deposits at call .. 1,759 36,412
Tax provision .. 8,172 8,648
Final dividend .. 5,213 5,213
£144,063 £187,911
Furniture .. .. 22 22
Debtors .. .. 140,727 185,000
Investments .. 1,237 1,175
Cash .. .. 77 68
Intangibles .. 2,000 1,646
£144,063 £187,911
With funds kept fully
employed, earnings contiriued
to plod forward last term.
Representing the still low
return of 13.7 p.c. on ordinary-
capital, a net profit of £14,284
(up £316) was claimed, after
setting aside £8642 for income
tax. Once again the 10 p.c. div.
claimed £10,426:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend, serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Stamp duty, £2O .. .. 6,494
1955.. 11.564 8,151 3,413 9,907
Formation exp. w/off, £341 9,566
Unexplained reduction, £9.. 9,557
1956.. 13.968 10,426 3,542 13,099
Share-issue exp. w/off, £354 12,745
1957.. 14.284 10,426 3,858 16,603
* Subject to intangibles, £1646 at
30/6/’57.
Carapark and General is under
the same directorate (and
roof) as its partner and draws
its earning - strength from
financing sales of private
caravans and hire - fleets.
Doubts as to whether this
limited field will afford the co.
sufficient future scope are
voiced by the sharemarket,
which prices the shares ( cum
3d. div.) around 4s. 9d., on
which basis the effective yield
is 11.1 p.c.
Pinnock Finance Co., Ltd.
PROSPECTIVE depositors
who were attracted by the
high interest-rates on term-
deposits offered last year by
Pinnock Finance Co., but who
were reluctant to commit them-
selves because of the paucity
of information regarding the
co.’s prospects and potential,
will note with interest the
financier’s latest “Deposit
Investment Plan,” published
complete with memorandum
and first accounts.
Purpose of the new pros-
pectus is the placement of
registered fixed-deposit notes
totalling £lOO,OOO for three
years at 8 p.c. Oversubscrip-
tions will be accepted subject
to the proviso that consoli-
dated book-credits will at no
time exceed two-thirds of net
tangible assets. Application-
lists were opened on February
14.
The first accounts at June
30 last, covering an opera-
tional period of only 39
days, show total creditors at
£33,921 backed by tangible
assets of £84,183, comprising
bank-accounts, £13,316, and
debtors for loans and advances,
£70,867. Net tangible assets
are £50,262, paid capital
£50,001 and preliminary
expenses £327.
A member of a group with
world - wide ramifications,
Pinnock Finance Co. was
formed primarily to provide
hire - purchase facilities for
Pinnock Sewing Machine Pty.,
Fridor (Aust.) Pty., and
Telman Engineering Pty. The
Australian sub - group is
engaged in the manufacture,
import and assembly of
sewing-machines and the fabri-
cation of small tools and metal
components.
According to an interim
report covering the first half
of the current term, a 20 p.c.
net profit after interest-pay-
ments (but presumably before
tax) seems assured for the first
full operating year. Pinnock
and Fridor machines are now
being turned-out by the S.A.
factory at the rate of over
2000 units monthly, and, as
production increases, market 1 -
ing is to be extended into the
Pacific area and the U.S.A.
Australian Uranium Corp*
TTNABLE to obtain the
finance needed to resume
operations at the Adelaide
River (N.T.) uranium-mine, the
board of Australian Uranium
Corp., N.L., has decided to
surrender the mineral-leases
relating to the property.
In the two years to June 30
last, A.U.C. delivered 3415 tons
of ore to the Rum Jungle treat-
ment-plant for a gross return of
£68,050. However, lack of
working-capital prevented the
co. from establishing the value
of the mine and finally brought
production to a halt in
February, 1957. In its present
stage of development the mine
is not considered to be an
economical mining proposition.
At the end of last term (June
30, 1957) the co. had current
assets (cash and book-debts) of
£1771 against sundry creditors
of £4049. A further £10,200
(secured) was owing to
Uranium Development and
Prospecting, N.L.
At the same date the cost-
less - depreciation value of
plant, motor-vehicles, etc., was
£44,502, mine-buildings and
installations figuring in the
accounts at £24,661, and ss.
vendor - shares in South
Alligator Uranium, N.L., at
£50,000 (par value). Contribs.
in South Alligator Uranium,
paid to 3s. 6d., are currently
selling at around 2s. 6d.
Totalling £234,274, mine
development, leases,, p. and 1.
debit (£61,425) preliminary
expenses, etc., represented
13s. 9d. for each £ of the
£340,959 paid capital.
The 2s. 6d. shares were
offered at 4d. on the Sydney
'Change last week without
attracting buyers.
Sungei Bidor Tin
ITNDER the quota-system
introduced by the Inter-
national Tin Council, sales of
tin concentrates by Sungei
Bidor Tin Dredging, Ltd.
(Malaya), in the three-and-a-
half months to March 31 next
will be limited to approximately
81 tons.
This is equivalent to a
monthly average of a little over
23 tons, as against an average
monthly production of 35.6
tons in 1956-57 and 44.7 tons
in 1955-56.


HE HAS A
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BAR RE RE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO - BJLR-
bere acts like
a hand when
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements l , control
your hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
Write today for Free Literature
Barrere Distribution Company
Dept. 3h, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
MAQRILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, Feb. 24
-pOLLOWING-UP the hint
given by the British Prime
Minister, Mr. Macmillan, when
he was in N.Z. recently, the
Government has formally asked
the Board of Trade in London
to impose anti-dumping or
countervailing duties on butter
imported into the U.K. from
certain countries. Those cited in
the application are Finland, the
Irish Republic, Sweden and
Argentina.
With the sale of N.Z.’s butter
and cheese produced in the
1956-57 season now completed,
it is estimated that the loss on
the season’s produce will be
about £l3 million (all figures
N.Z. currency).
Offsetting this figure by
about £500,000 is the interest
earned on invested funds in the
Dairy Industry Reserve
Account, so that the draw-off
from the account will be about
£12,500,000.
At the end of July, 1956, the
reserve account showed a total
amount in credit of £28,700,000.
Subsequent payments and
adjustments reduced the figure
to £27,200,000, and this, less the
estimated net draw-off of
£12,500,000, gives a present
balance of about £14,700,000.
Of the loss of £13,050,000 on
the sale of last season’s pro-
duce, butter accounted for an
estimated £10,350,000 and
cheese an estimated £2,700,000.
Dumping
There is no doubt that the
£ 13-million loss was almost
entirely due to the dumping of
tremendous quantities of
butter on the British market.
In 1957 Finland exported
20,218 tons of butter to the
U.K. compared with 9389 tons
in 1956 and practically nothing
in 1955. The Irish Republic
supplied 14,473 tons in 1957,
compared with 283 tons in 1956
and 1035 tons in 1955. Sweden
supplied 14,082 tons in 1957
compared with 1417 tons in
1956 and none in 1955. Argen-
tina supplied 12,344 tons in the
first 11 months of 1957 com-
pared with 10,316 tons in 1956
and 7306 tons in 1955.
The essential point is that
this butter was sold in Britain
at prices well below the
domestic price in the producing
countries.
The N.Z. Dairy Industry
Information Service claims that
“in flagrant violation of both
the spirit and letter of Gatt,
countries such as Finland,
Sweden, Eire and Argentina
have charged their own people
very high prices and dumped
their surplus on the British
market.”
In Finland last year, it says,
local consumers were being
charged over 6s. a pound for
butter, while the same butter
was being sold in the U.K. for
2s. sd. a pound. Later, through
exchange manipulation, the
difference was reduced, but it is
still nearly 2s. a pound. Simi-
larly, Sweden, Eire and Argen-
tina are dumping their butter at
Is. to 2s. a pound less than their
own consumers are paying.
While there is no doubt that
the greater part of the 60,000
tons of butter sent to Britain
by these marginal suppliers last
year was dumped in terms of
the British Customs Duties
(Dumping and Subsidies) Act,
it remains necessary to convince
the U.K. authorities that it is
in their national interest to
invoke the Act to stop the
practice.
It is here that difficulties
arise. The U.K. Government
will naturally be reluctant to do
anything to increase the price of
food to the British housewife.
On the other hand, it is
certain that N.Z.’s ability to
buy from the U.K. has been
gravely impaired by the steep
fall in butter prices, and, as
the Minister of Agriculture, Mr.
Skinner, has pointed out, a con-
traction of mutual trade is con-
trary to the national interests
of both countries.
Short Memories
There are, of course, other
cogent arguments in support of
N.Z.’s case. In considering
“national interest” the British
authorities should take the long
view. They should not look
only at the immediate situation.
They should look ahead and
look back back to the war
years.
The president of the Federa-
tion of Labor, Mr. F. P. Walsh,
made some pertinent remarks
on this subject in a recent inter-
view with a London newspaper:
“All through the war years,”
he said, “we sold our primary
produce to Britain at prices con-
siderably below world parity,
whereas the Argentine and
other countries made food con-
tracts at the highest prices they
could —then promptly repudi-
ated them and held Britain up
to ransom for still more. Do
you wonder that our people
are very perturbed at the short
memory of the British Govern-
ment? What is happening now
is that people like ourselves are
being sacrificed and preference
is being given to these foreign
countries, some of whom were
lined up against Britain during
the war. You can’t expect us
to think that we’ve had any-
thing but a very poor deal.”
Meantime the 64-dollar ques-
tion is what will happen when
the dairy industry’s reserves are
exhausted? Will the rest of
the community be asked to
maintain the dairyfarmer’s
income? Or will the guaranteed
price be reduced to a more
realistic figure? As the law
stands at present it cannot
come down more than 5 per
cent, in one year. A 5 per cent,
cut, however, would not go far
toward meeting the discrepancy.
At present farmers are receiving
36fd. a pound for butterfat for
butter, for which the country
receives 22|d. a pound ; cheese-
farmers receive 39|d. a pound,
but the country receives only
2ld. a pound.
Internal Spending
The N.Z. Government’s big
problem at the moment is to
reduce internal spending. If it
fails to do so the drastic cur-
tailment of imports which has
been embarked on will inevit-
ably start a new and disastrous
burst of inflation.
The Minister of Finance, Mr.
Nordmeyer, has recently had
talks with the Local
Authorities Loans Board and
the Capital Issues Committee
to see what “additional restraint
on spending might reasonably
be applied in these fields.”
A review of all Government
spending has been started, both
inside and outside the country,
aimed at making savings
wherever possible
The trading-banks have been
warned that, on present evi-
dence, total bank advances, now
£172 million, against about
£l5B million at this time last
year, should be reduced by the
end of June to the level of
June last year—£ls6 million.
Mr. Nordmeyer told the
banks that though he expected
to see an early reduction, after
allowing for normal increases
to facilitate income-tax pay-
ments, he also expected the
reduction to be made gradually
to avoid harshness and undue
disturbance of business.
The banks have been asked to
give preference to loans for
more essential production and
service. Local production will
receive preference where other
means of finance are not avail-
able. This will naturally involve
restriction on other classes of
bank loans.
While the Government is
talking about the need for
saving, however, it is blithely
going ahead with those features
of its policy which will
encourage spending.
The Prime Minister, Mr.
Nash, said the other day, “This
is a time for restraint in spend-
ing by all of us.” But, almost
in the same breath, he reiterated
that all the Government’s elec-
tion pledges would be carried
out. These include the lifting
of the family benefit from 10s.
to 15s. a week for each child
and the capitalisation of the
benefit, if required by the bene-
ficiary, for housing purposes.
The 3 p.c. Housing-loans
Already 3 p.c. loans for hous-
ing have been introduced. These
loans, however, are so hedged
round with restrictions and
limitations that they are hardly
what the public was led to
expect during the election. To
qualify for a 3 p.c. loan the
breadwinner of the family must
not earn more than £lOOO a
year, he must first put all his
available resources into the
house, and, if he ceases to
occupy the house, the interest
reverts to 4| p.c., the usual
State Advances rate.
The Government would have
done better to admit that 3 p.c.
loans were impracticable at
present. As it is the scheme will
simply result in the creation of
another privileged group, sub-
sidised at the expense of the
rest of the community.
The whole scheme is hasty
and ill-considered and simply
bristles with problems. What
happens, for instance, if a man
earning £950 gets a 3 p.c. loan
and immediately increases his
income to £1050? What
happens if his neighbor, earn-
ing £lO5O a year with overtime,
pays 4| p.c. for his loan, but
then loses his overtime and falls
back to an income of £950?
Why is the income limitation
confined to the breadwinner
of the family? A man and his
wife, earning between them
£l9OO, can qualify for 3 p.c.
money, but a man earning
£lO5O, whose wife is occupied
rearing his children, must pay
4} p.c. Is this socially desir-
able?


Hod. Cons, and Otherwise
By "HANDERS"
MANY journals devote
much space to telling
people how to build
houses; not by any
means is enough done telling
them how not to build houses.
Yet houses, built right or
built wrong, are distressingly
permanent if the accent is on
wrongness: the sins of the
designers, architects and
builders are visited for a great
number of years upon the
innocent heads of the occupiers.
It has recently been my
experience to tenant a house
which has forcibly underlined
this obvious, too-often un-
regarded precept. The people
from whom I had the tenancy,
nice people, were guiltless: they
had fallen into purchasing the
place with the eagerness of
young persons to possess a
home, and without sufficient
wariness.
Nor did I have sufficient
wariness when I took up the
tenancy, for the fact was that
the faults in it were not very
obvious at first sight: they grew
on one through hard experi-
ence.
The house occupied an
excellent site on the higher
slope of a steepish hill; the hill
was of the kind that sooner or
later breaks hearts, but the view
was superb, the air fresh, the
sense of remoteness from the
city, three miles away, keen.
The house itself, too, had
been very well built: that was
perhaps the most anger-making
thing about it. Had it been a
jerry-built job one may have
passed the whole business over
as the doings of an incompetent
or dishonest builder, and left
it at that. But the work had
been solid, competent, well-
intentioned and comfort-
destroying.
Not that there was any one
big thing which stood out as
repellent. No, there was,
instead, a quiet conspiracy of
little things to bring about, in
total, a sense of almost constant
irritation and frustration.
THE kitchen, for instance.
This, the real core of so
much of the daily life of the
home, had been sacrificed in
space and design to everything
else: even the b& broom was
larger. More malignantly, three
doors had been placed in a
kitchen barely large enough to
turn around in. There was a
door in from the hall, a door
into a sunroom, and a door to
the back porch. When a stove,
fridge, sink and table had been
crammed in, the general effect
in opening, closing and dodging
doors was something akin to the
setting for “The Phantom of
the Opera.”
It is true that, in conformity
with the modern idea about
cupboard-space, there was
ample cupboard-space in the
kitchen. But the builder
evidently had assumed that
the house always would be
occupied by a group of Peter
Pans never growing old, and
therefore lithe and lissom
enough to reach for the sky
any time anything was needed
from a cupboard. The general
consequence was that three-
quarters of the cupboard-space
remained unused, the other
quarter overpacked.
The house was amply pro-
vided with power-points—with
a kind of satanic inspiration
practically all of them right
where they’d be most inaccess-
ible. The total result here was
an inescapable straining to get
behind beds, into dark corners,
"Now get in there—l want to see this place spotless ."
under the bottom sides of
shelves.
In two of the rooms there
were very large glass windows,
giving on to beautiful aspects.
These windows, however, were
placed some 12ft. above ground-
level, on account of the slope,
and no provision had been
made for opening them. When-
ever they got dirty on the out-
side one either turned on the
hose and hoped for the best,
or prayed for rain.
AS the house had been built
on the side of a hill, the
builder had the option of
cutting away a little of the hill
to give a front-level, or more
of the hill to give a rear-level.
Naturally he had cut little and
given a front-level. This
assured a straight walk in from
the front gate and only two or
three steps up to the front door.
The price paid for this easy
front-door access —used per-
haps six times a day—was a
set of steep steps down from
the back porch, used perhaps
30 times a day. It was perfectly
designed for a nasty accident,
and of course we duly had one.
There were two places at
which a garage could have been
built, because the house was on
a corner with access to two
streets. On the lower side a
garage would have given direct
and dry access to the house.
On the high side a level with
the street was best secured by
placing the garage at the corner
of the land farthest from the
house. There is no prize for
guessing which site the builder
chose. On cold and wet days
and nights one garaged the car,
then raced down the outside
footpath to the back gate.
Similarly with the garbage-
can. A path to a gate could
have been made either on the
lower or level side, making it
as easy as possible to carry a
heavy garbage-can out for
collection. Or the path up to
the other street gate would
have to be chosen, and “up”
was the operative word: there
was a struggle up a steep little
grade topped by four ascending
steps, all guaranteed to exhaust
any garbage-can putter-out
except .a young athlete in first-
class condition. Of course, the
lower and easier path was skil-
fully obstructed by trellised
{Continued on page 41)


m
■■■
IS YOUR
MEMORY
100%
RELIABLE?
Psychologist Langford-Penny says:— —
“You can remember ANYTHING AT AIX tbat you WANT to remember!
If you know HOW! TRYING to remember is just not good .enough.
Far, far from good enough! Forgetfulness of things that are important
for you to remember is not the fault of a “poor” memory. If you are
a normal person—then you possess memory-ability far in excess of what
you may fondly imagine. No, this is not ‘just advertising blali, blab,
blah . . .’—this is FACT!”
“TRENT” WILE SHOW YOU HOW TO REMEMBER—
NAMES AND FACES: —people’s names . . faces . . .initials . . . occupations
. . . addresses . . . birthdays . . . hobbies and interests . . . ANYTHING
AT ALL that you WANT to remember about people.
FlGURES:—statistical and reference figures . . . constants . . . dates . . .
prices . . . telephone numbers . . . measurements . . . etc.
WHAT YOU READ:—text and reference book material . . . trade journals
.. . your STUDIES . . no matter WHAT it is you are shown how to
“GET” the essentials after—TWlCE READING ! ! !
LECTURES, CLASS ROOM WORK, ETC.—you will learn how to “take in”
the essentials and RETAIN this knowledge PROGRESSIVELY
THROUGHOUT THE YEAR!
WORD-FOR-WORD 3IEMO RISING: —lodge ritual . . . definitions . . . poetry
. . . quotations . . . plays . . . actors’ lines . . . TV scripts . . . ANY-
THING AT ALL that has to be known “word-for-word.”
CONVERSATIONS: —essential details from conferences . . . interviews . . .
instructions . . . reports . . . conversations.
WHAT YOU SEE AND HEAR:—special techniques to, enable you to recall
with absolute accuracy—what you particularly WANT to remember of
what you SEE and HEAR. A most important requirement of memory!
HOW TO REMEM HER AHEAD:—appointments . . . things that you want to
dp “at a certain time”. . . how to remember the many important things
that “hit” your mind at all kinds of inconvenient times, that you want
to be “reminded” of later.
BLUE-PRINTS, DIAGRAMS, PLANS, DRAWINGS, ETC.—yes, there’s a
special section for those of you who wish to remember such details.
WHERE YOU PUT THINGS:—you will thank “TRENT” to the end of your
days for showing you how to INSTANTLY remember where you left
your keys, your glasses, your pen. your screwdriver.
EQUATIONS AND FORMULAE: —engineering . . . chemical . . . navigational
. . . etc. . . . yes, several pages of the course are devoted to this
important (for some people) memory requirement.
SPELLING: —so you “can't spell for nuts!” All right—there are several
pages for your benefit.
UNUSUAL, TECHNICAL, BOTANICAL, ANATOMICAL, FOREIGN, AND
SUCH WORDS AND NAMES:—the special section on this subject enables
you to remember such words after TWICE reading or hearing.
WHICH IS WHlCH:—stalagmite or stalactite . . . concave or convex . . .
foolscap or quarto? . . . etc. . . . never again need you be confounded
by which is which ?
LONG LISTS OF THINGS —IN CORRECT ORDER . . . FOREIGN
LANGUAGES . . . MUSIC:—“TRENT” is very COMPREHENSIVE. You
take out of it whatever is applicable to your own particular requirements.
—taken seriously, and applied intelligently “TRENT” will also: —
stimulate your senses — “tone them up” generally.
make you more observant.
strengthen your powers of concentration.
enable you to grasp important points quickly.
increase greatly your general and specific knowledge.
develop your reasoning powers.
help you to think clearly and specifically.
enable you to “GET” the facts, quickly and accurately.
cut your studying time by 30 per cent. . . . and more.
save you much valuable time —in general.
help you to keep “mentally young.”
Success ? Or failure ?
Business executive or aspiring politician—air pilot
or clerk—industrialist or professional man —
farmer or grazier student or housewife —it
matters not who you are, or what you are—there
can be no doubt that your success or failure is
dependent so very much upon YOUR MEMORY!
Do you not agree?
You already HAVE the memoryrability! There is
not the least shadow of doubt about that.
It is Well worth your while to learn just how this
memory ability of yours functions —how to put it
to effective use.
You can trust “Trent!”
“TRENT” is the trade name of Langford-Penny’S
seven-lesson course of instruction —
“YOUR MEMORY! HOW IT WORKS!
HOW TO USE IT!”
The course that has already made thousands of
friends in this country alone. The course that was
rigidly, yet successfully, tested by the N-S.W.
Police Dept. The course of instruction that has
been acclaimed as “. . . 100 per cent, ‘fair-dinkum.’ ’*
Are you in the panel?
In the panel at the left are listed some of the
benefits that you can expect from the “TRENT”
course. These claims are covered by WRITTEN
GUARANTEE! Place a tick against those items
that are of interest to you. AND TO THE
MEMBERS OF YOUR FAMILY!
Then —if suitably .impressed and keen to learn
further details—fill in the coupon below, and post it
to us. Free literature will come to you in a PLAIN,
SEALED envelope. Your enquiry places you under
no obligation whatsoever.
“Are you studying for exams.?”
“TRENT” is the ONLY course of its kind that
deals with the application of memory to study.
Letters in our files testify to the fact that
“Trented” students, apart from being successful in
their exams., have been able to —“. . . cut their
studying time down by as much as from 30 to 50
per cent. . . .” You w'ill have abundant evidence
of this when you receive the free lfi-page booklet—
“AßE YOU STUDYING FOR EXAMINATIONS?”
NO MATTER WHO YOU ARE—NO MATTER WHERE
YOU LIVE—“TRENT” CAN BE YOUR ONE-WAY
FIRST-CLASS TICKET TO
A FIRST-CLASS MEMORY!
CALL PHONE WRITE or MAIL THE
COUPON BELOW for full particulars.
“TRENT” MIND AND MEMORY DEVELOPMENT
PTY. LTD.,
214 Pitt Street, Sydney (next Lyceum Theatre),
and —
61 Market Street, Sydney ( opp . Woolworths).
Phones: MA 5686, BM 6392.
Mr. AV. Eangford-Penny, Principal,
“TRENT" Mind & Memory Development Pty. Ltd.,
Box 4578, G.P.O-, SYDNEY
I am genuinely interested in yo.ur course of instruc-
tion. Please send me, without obligation, full details.
Mr., Mrs., Miss
FULL Address
(Print CLEARLY please) i
(P.S.: If you are studying for exams., remember that
“TRENT" can cut your studying time by 30 per
cent. —and more.) B 38


The Lame Duck
By JUDITH WRIGHT
THE allotment beside the
Browns’ house had been
a tangle of dodder,
lantana and low scrub,
with a few old boots and use-
less bits of timber thrown over
the fence by Ronnie Brown
from time to time.
Lyla Brown leaned on her
doorpost, looking across at it
with a new interest, a slice of
bread and jam in her hand.
The busy bulldozer worked
across and across, piling-up
the scrub and the lantana in
driftwood lines, exposing the
raw white clay, smoothing
away whatever had been wild
and secret there, ready for the
builder and his measuring-
tape
The cottage was to be built
for a widow from the town,
they said; the bank-manager’s
widow, who would have to
move from the bank residence.
Lyla and Ronnie watched her
there when she came out with
old Sly the builder, energeti-
cally walking here and there,
checking the. survey - pegs,
pointing out this and that to be
done.
“Looks a bit of a battle-axe,
doesn’t she?” Ronnie said,
leaning against the kitchen
window-sill with one arm over
Lyla’s neck.
“Oh, I don’t know,” said
Lyla. She liked people ; she
liked company. It would be a
change.
For of course she had to be
alone a lot. Ronnie worked in
the big boat-builder’s in town
on the river, two miles away.
Sometimes there was overtime,
and he’d be late back or work
Saturdays; sometimes things
were slack and he’d be put on
three days a week and have to
go out in his brother’s fishing-
boat to keep the money coming
in.
Not much —not a lot.
Neither Ronnie nor Lyla
wanted a lot. Enough to live
on, to keep up the payments on
Ronnie’s bike and on the radio-
gram, and to have their Satur-
day party; that was enough.
What else did they want?
There were no children yet, and
Lyla wassail Ronnie wanted,
Ronnie all that Lyla thought
of. When they clung together
in the big iron bed with the
slightly grimy sheets, they
already had more than either
of them had thought possible.
The cottage grew, first into a
red-boned skeleton of timber
framework, then into the
semblance of a real house. It
fascinated Lyla to watch the
carpenters and conjecture what
would happen next, and what
each bodiless enclosure, later
to be a room, was meant for.
She stared at it through the
kitchen-window as she washed-
up, or over her shoulder as she
pretended to work in the
neglected garden. Soon she
came to know the carpenters
well enough to carry them cups
of tea and scones now and
then* call jokes over the fence
and ask about their wives and
families.
After the floor went down,
they asked her over to walk
through the house and admire
what was done. She looked at
the blueprint pinned on a
stud, the built-in cupboards,
the smart new knobs and
handles and arrangements. She
grew attached to that house,
possessive as though in some
sense it were her own. The
Browns’ house was old—it
had belonged to Ronnie’s
people, dead now (“Thank
goodness,” Lyla often found
herself thinking.) It had been
built in the days when a house
was one place no more impor-
tant than another, a place to
be skimped, non-competitive,
not for showing-off to the
neighbors ; and Ronnie seldom
mended the cracks in the walls,
the broken steps, the leaks in
the galvanised-iron water-tanks
or the creaking floor-boards.
Sometimes on Sundays the
widow, Mrs. Hamilton, came
to look through the house that
Lyla knew better than she did
herself, and to scribble curt
notes to the carpenters—“ Wi-
ndow won’t shut. Please attend
to this” ; or “Nailheads not
flush with timber here,
On Mondays Lyla would
carry over the teapot and
share the notes with the car-
penters, giggling as they
grumbled at the way the old
bag shoved them about.
She shared all this with
Ronnie at nights. It was corn-
ing to be more important than
her own house to her during
the week—the house next door,
Except on Saturdays, which
were party-days, and Sundays,
when Ronnie slouched around
in shorts and read the paper,
or they went fishing together in
the bay, she hadn’t much else
to think of.
f'YN the carpenters’ last
KJ Friday, when the house
was standing at last ready for
the painters and only the last
touches were to be done, she
went across and asked them to


come to the Saturday party
and bring their wives.
It was a sort of farewell
party; and Lyla felt, as she
sniffed the exciting somehow
nostalgic smell of new wood
and tile-board, that the house
exhaled, and flirted a little with
young Joe the assistant, really
as though something was com-
ing to an end, a part of her life
tied-up with the hot summer
days and the friendly sound of
sawing and hammering that
had been their accompaniment
as much as the sound of
cicadas in the garden fig-trees.
She would miss that noise, the
small excitement of having the
men next door and knowing
their eyes were on her as she
went about her daily jobs with
a bit more lipstick than usual,
a dress a little gayer than she
would have worn if they hadn’t
been there.
Since the carpenters and
their wives were strangers to
her own friends and Ronnie’s,
she went to no end of trouble
over the party, with flowers in
all the vases and the curtains
washed and ironed. Everyone
mixed well and the party was
a success. Lyla played the
guitar afterwards, though she
was getting so out of practice,
and they all sang “Harvest
Moon” and “Bye Bye Black-
bird” and the hit-parade tunes
that were popular just then ;
and Lyla sang the songs she
had sung on the radio Amateur
Hour, the time she had come
second in the voting and might
have gone to the city for good,
only of course she married
Ronnie.
Next week the painters
came ; but they were gone again
in a few days, and Lyla had
scarcely had time to get to
know them, though she took
them cups of tea in order to
find out what colors the rooms
were to be. She and the
painters agreed that there was
no doubt these modern colors
made a place look gay, though
they weren’t to everybody’s
taste. But after the carpenters,
the painters seemed somehow
intruders; Lyla missed the
noise of hammers and saws
and young Joe’s modest
admiration. Next week the
widow would be moving in, and
though Lyla looked forward to
that as another piece of excite-
ment, she felt vaguely jealous
of the house, as though she
herself ought to be the owner,
and Mrs. Hamilton were an
interloper.
The first van came with the
furniture on Monday morning
early, so that Ronnie was able
to watch it with her. Two
more vanloads came during the
day, and at night she and
Ronnie had plenty to talk
about—the colors and the
quality of the furniture, where
everything had probably been
bought and what it must have
cost. Lyla went through all
the furniture-advertisements in
the old piles of newspapers
under the laundry-shelf, and
added-up prices on paper. She
felt restless, somehow forlorn ;
she decided to buy half-
a-gallon of paint in that pretty
pink and do-up the kitchen a
bit, out of Ron’s next pay.
There was no doubt the house
was looking shabby.
"JvrEXT day Mrs. Hamilton
drove up in a taxi with her
suitcases and boxes and an-
other woman who might have
been her sister, who must have
come to help her get things to
rights. Lyla shifted her ironing-
board closer to the window and
watched them pay-off the driver
and walk up the path and
through the polished cypress-
pine door with the little
diamond-shaped panel that
Lyla so much liked the look of.
Starched, Mrs. Hamilton was,
Lyla thought how many
bones she had in her girdle you
couldn’t give a guess. She
imagined to herself where all
the furniture was going, what
the rooms must look like now.
She’d had some good jokes in
that house, with the carpenters ;
she knew every wall and corner
and window. Oh, well, at least
she had a neighbor now; it
would be someone to talk to.
When she finished the iron-
ing Lyla fetched a chair to the
window and sat there with her
cup of tea and her piece of
bread-and-jam. She kept an
eye on the house ; but some-
one had put up Venetian-
blinds over the windows
already, and after a few
minutes Mrs. Hamilton came
to the windows and let them
all down quite sharply. As
though she was a Peeping Tom,
thought Lyla, and she moved
away from the window at once.
When Ronnie came, she told
him all the day’s news except
that. That shamed her, some-
how.
Yet next morning, when Mrs.
Hamilton was measuring and
pegging out the ravaged clay
round the house for garden-
beds, and Lyla came out to
feed the few hens she kept in a
tumbledown netting-yard at
the back, Mrs. Hamilton
greeted her in quite a friendly
way.
“You’re Mrs. Brown, aren’t
you? What a little thing to be
called Mrs.! Would you like
to come over here and help me
get these measurements straight,
dear? I’m sure you’ve got a
better eye for this kind of thing
than I have.”
And Lyla found herself
holding the end of a string and
knocking in pegs for Mrs.
Hamilton and talking away as
though they had been friends
a long time. It felt quite right
and natural, somehow, to be
doing things for that house, for
that garden.
And Mrs. Hamilton was so
kind, so interested —“I never
had a daughter of my own, but
if I had she’d be about your
age, dear, so please don’t mind
if I talk to you now and then.
I do hope we’ll .be friends” —
that Lyla couln’t help feeling
flattered.
Yes, it was a new kind of
life that Lyla was beginning.
She hurried through her own
housework in the mornings, to
go over to Mrs. Hamilton and
help her unpack, move the
furniture about, hang pictures,
put down carpets. Mrs. Hamil-
ton was a great gardener ; but
since she seemed to have
plenty of money, she got a
man out from town twice a
week to dig the new beds and
clear-up the mess around the
house and lay the lawn.
It was old Jim Harrison,
whom Lyla had seen round the
town ever since she was a little
girl, and often passed the time
of day with. But Lyla noticed
that when Mrs. Hamilton made
him a cup of tea in the
mornings, she left it- in the
kitchen and had her own in
the sitting-room, or over with
Lyla.
Lyla wondered at that, and
once she even asked, “Shan’t I
get Mr. Harrison over to have
his tea here?”
He certainly looked glum,
stuck over there in the blue-
tiled kitchen all alone. But
Mrs. Hamilton looked taken
aback.
“He’s the gardener, Lyla,”
was all she said.
Still, she didn’t seem to mind
Lyla’s run-down house or her
not knowing the right way to
do things. She told Lyla she
was really getting fond of her.
“You’re such a pretty little
kitten to be here all by your-
self.”
And Lyla enjoyed that. She
liked being liked, and she had
begun to feel quite fond of
Mrs. Hamilton, herself.
“What happened to your
little foot, dear?” she asked
once, when Lyla was moving
round the kitchen with her
light dargging step, getting
Mrs. Hamilton a bit of lunch.
It was so hot, and Mrs. Hamil-
ton had given herself a head-
ache, painting the patio-chairs.
T YLA told her the whole
story ; how when she and
Ronnie were not even thinking
of getting married, the time
when she had just come
second in the Amateur Hour,
Ronnie had taken her out
fishing in the motor-boat that
belonged to his brother, and
how she had slipped on the
jetty as she was getting out of
the boat and her foot had
caught between the gunwale
and the jetty-piles, and before
Ronnie could push the boat
off her foot had gone scrunch
—like that.
Two bones were broken,
and when she had come out of
hospital after all those weeks
she was still lame, and the
doctors said she always would
be. But it ended happily, for
she and Ronnie were married
now, and everyone said it
had been best after all.
Only of course she could
never have gone to the city and
got a job singing and dancing,
as she had meant to do before
she fell in love with Ronnie.
Still, it didn’t matter. It didn’t
keep her from doing all she
wanted to do, and since she
had Ronnie now she didn't
want to go to the city any-
way.
Mrs. Hamilton listened with
as much interest as even Lyla
could expect of a story which
never failed to seem to her
romantic. She made Lyla take
down her guitar from the case
on top of the wardrobe and
play to her.
“Why, that’s beautiful, Lyla.
Yes, you’re really an artist. A
little lame artist —a dancer
who can’t dance. Such a
pretty voice you have. No
doubt about it, your Ronnie is
lucky, isn’t he? Just think of
all you might have been doing.
Perhaps you might have gone
abroad —done as well as that
girl, what’s her name? the
one who broke into television
in London. You might, you
know, with that voice and
those pretty looks. Yes; I
hope he knows how lucky he
is to have you, so far away
from all the excitement you
might have had, out here at
Chinaman’s Creek of all
places! Do play me that
again—I just loved it.”
Even sometimes when
Ronnie came home at nights,
a time they had always had
quite to themselves, since they
had never before had a close
neighbor, Mrs. Hamilton
would drop in for a few
minutes, or call Lyla over to
help her with something or to
show her a new ornament or a
(Continued on page 56)


Stripping the Naked God
OF all the writers who have in
recent years renounced the Com-
munist faith Howard Fast is prob-
ably the most notable. He was
already well known in America for his
Left-wing sympathies and radical writing
when he joined the Communist party in
1943, and in the 15 years since then has
been quoted in Communist papers all
over the world.
His books have been best-sellers in
Russia and the satellite countries—
Spartacus sold almost a million copies in
East Germany alone—and he has corres-
ponded with Communist writers every-
where. He joined the party because he
“saw the Communists as the bravest and
most skilful fighters for man’s freedom.”
He left it because he was convinced that
it was not by accident but by grim inevi-
tability that Communism produced as its
leaders such men as Stalin, Khrushchev,
Ulbricht, Rakosi and “so many more, so
yery many more.”
In The Naked God he retreads the
painful road that led him to his decision.
The Khrushchev Report
'T'HE bottom fell out of Fast’s Com-
munist world when the New York
“Times,” on June 5, 1956, published the
secret report of Khrushchev’s speech
which had come into the hands of the
U.S. State Department. In some parts of
the world, Australia among them, Com-
munists were prepared to regard the
text as a swindle worked by the U.S.
State Department, but Fast and his
colleagues on the “Daily Worker” had
no doubts about its genuineness. “From
the moment of the publication of
Khrushchev’s secret report, no intelligent
and informed Communist doubted its
Validity.”
The day after the secret report was
published the staff of the “Daily Worker”
met to discuss their attitude towards it.
They were writers who had given most of
their adult years to the Communist move-
ment ; many, including Fast, had been
to.prison for their beliefs. All had read
the report. “The sombre terror of it was
in our eyes and on our faces and now the
discussion was whether or not to print it
in the ‘Worker.’ ” In the course of the
discussion Fast said,
I wonder if there is any comrade here
who can say now, out of what we know and
have seen, that if our own party-leaders had
the power of execution, he or she would
be alive today.
No one answered. Fast, explaining the
silence, claims that everyone knew the
truth of his implication. They knew that
it was ridiculous to explain away all the
killings and torturings* itemised in the
report by such a phrase as “the cult of
the individual” or by talk of Stalin’s
“sickness” and “paranoia.”
All the victims of the Soviet purges
had one thing in common—unorthodoxy
in some form —and the “Daily Worker”
men, the intelligentsia of the American
Communist party, also had unorthodoxy
in common. They knew they were
bitterly hated and resented by the leader-
ship, or, at the best, tolerated. “The
knowledge that had come to us,” writes
Fast, “was not a realisation that the
leadership of the party was paranoic or
bloodthirsty, but that the pattern of
death as the final outcome of iconoclasm
was a built-in part of the Communist-
party structure.”
So the terrible, terrible secret speech
became a reality for us —not because of
what had happened in Russia, but because
of our experience here in the Communist
Party of the United States.
The “Daily Worker” published the
“Times” version of the report in full —
probably the only Communist paper in
the world to do so. Fast himself wrote
a column denouncing the lack of civil
rights and liberties in Russia. In the en-
suing few months a faction-fight for the
control of the party was waged between
the leadership and John Gates and his
writers’ group, ending in the triumph of
orthodoxy. Howard Fast’s break with
the party was made publicly in February,
1957, but in reality it dates from his read-
ing of the Khrushchev report.
“Political Errors”
is clear from The Nuked
G(xl is that his disillusionment
began shortly after he joined the party in
1943, when he discovered the childish
standards of literary criticism imposed
by the leadership.
His book, Freedom Road, written
before he joined the party, contained
“political errors” and “errors of a
bourgeois nature”—he had used the
word “nigger,” and this was not permis-
sible. It was admitted that “in certain
instances of direct quotation the party
permitted the use of n r, but never
the spelled-out word.” He asserts that
people have been expelled from the party
for speaking of a “Negro girl” or a
“black night,” because both “girl” and
“black” had become magical taboo-
words, the use of which indicated that a
white person had a deep well of racism
within him.
Other books were criticised on equally
ridiculous grounds. Over one he was
charged with “anti-party action” because
one character,- a Communist worker, got
a little drunk when his problems
oppressed him; he was charged with
“Jewish bourgeois nationalism” because
My Glorious Brothers was a tale of the
war of the Maccabees ; The Proud and
the Free, in which eighteenth-century
colonial soldiers spoke of “naygers,”
brought a demand for a public con-
fession and apology.
Inhuman Contempt
YjUORSE even than this petty criticism
was the realisation that the party-
leaders not only did not read creative
writing at all (except such deviationist
paragraphs or phrases as were brought to
their notice) but held the writers in scorn.
Fast had this brought home to him on
his return from India in 1945. One of
the leaders of the Indian Communist
party had given him a forecast of his
view of events in India after the war and
asked him to pass them on to Eugene
Dennis, general secretary of the U.S.
Communist party.
Fast tried to do so the day he arrived
back in New York. He continued to try
for several weeks, and was at last
granted an interview.
I was led to the large impressive office
where Dennis sat in his lonely lordship, and
when I entered the room, I was told, with a
cold nod, to say whatever I had to say.
It took me some 10 minutes to say it. I
finished. “Very well. You may go,” Dennis
said.
A small thing, perhaps, but to Howard
Fast it typifies the complete lack of
human feeling in U.S. Communist leader-
ship—in all Communist leadership.
Not even the warden of the Federal prison
where 1 served a sentence as a political
prisoner ever treated me or anyone else with
such inhuman disdain and contempt;
indeed, the warden l refer to was a man
of heart and compassion ; and only in the
Communist party from Communist leader-
ship have l experienced myself and seen
directed toward so' many others such an
attitude toward people.
Other writers in the party had s milar
experiences of humiliation.
Parlor Pinks
interesting are
the reactions of some non-party
sympathisers on hearing ot the detection
of Fast and other '‘Daiiv Worker” men,
especially of a group of wealthy upper-
middle-class people whose total relation-
ship to the radical movement consisted
of grudging gifts of money. Fast heard
one of these, the owner of a chain of
restaurants, call John Gates “a traitor,
opportunist and renegade” ; a millionaire
banker screamed that Joseph Clark was
“a lousy agent of the F. 8.1.” These com-
pliments were passed in the apartment of
a wealthy woman who “will not speak
to me now, for she considers me a
renegade.” Another of her guests,
slipping off her five-thousand-dollar
mink-coat, said, “It has to be one way, the
only way. You’re going to have civil
war, barricades, and the workers are
going to have to fight and die until blood
runs like water in the streets.”
This talk of blood was apparently
catching; later, a businessman at this
same gathering raged at Fast, “So what
if twentyfive-thousand people died in
Hungary! You got to pay a price for
this kind of thing .... Yellow!, You,
Gates, Max—the whole crew of you,
yellow—yellow! ”
Such reaction was typical, says Fast;
all over the nation the mental revolu-
tionaries, the parlor-pinks, the living-room
warriors, the mink-coated allies of the
working-class wept that people like myself
had betrayed the holy cause of Com-
munism. As one of them said to me, “Fast,
you’ve stepped over the point of no
return.”
Fast’s comment is “But at least I know:
what I stepped away from.”


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
Few eagerly awaited events
live up to expectations quite as
well as the Queen Elizabeth
Stakes, feature race at Flem-
ington last Saturday.
On a day of brilliant sun-
shine, it was hoped that our
three best horses, Tulloch,
Prince Darius and Sailor’s
Guide, would show the Queen
Mother Australian racing at its
best. And as though
aware of the importance
of the day, the trio
staged as exciting and
lion-hearted a struggle
as we have seen in any
race for a long time.
As they hit the line,
none could say with
certainty which of the
three had won. The
camera give the decision
to Sailor’s Guide, an
inch ahead of Prince
Darius, a bare half-head
to Tulloch.
Later, at the presentation
ceremony, which was delayed
half-an-hour by an unsuccess-
ful protest lodged by Ward,
rider of Prince Darius, against
the winner, the Queen Mother
said: “What a wonderful finish
it was! I can’t remember when
I have been more excited.”
The crowd gave Sailor’s
Guide a tremendous reception.
By his courage and consistency
the Bendigo horse has woil a
special place in the esteem of
Victorian racegoers. From 52
starts he has now won 17 races,
and been 19 times in the minor
money. The £6500 Stakes
first-prize lifted his earnings to
£63,594, a figure bettered in
Australasia by only two
horses, Redcraze and Rising
Fast.
• • • •
This was “Sailor’s” second
Queen Elizabeth Stakes
success. He won the race in
1956, and last year was second
to Redcraze. He ran the 13
furlongs last Saturday in 2.42,
which equalled the track
record.
• • • •
Gallantly though he ran,
Tulloch was still not the
champion of the spring. The
race will have further improved
him, however, and he should
have a keen battle for
favoritism with Prince Darius
in next Saturday’s St. Leger.
If it were needed, Misting
gave further proof that he is
the best two-year-old racing
in Australia when he scored
a comfortable win in the Sires
Produce Stakes. After dwelling
slightly at the start, Misting
quickly ran to the lead, made
the turn into the straight nicely
clear, and was untroubled to
hold-off a challenge from
Nilento in the run home. In
seven starts, Misting has now
won five times and been second
twice. He has earned £9490 in
stakemoney.
• • • •
The Queen Mother watched
the Sires Produce in company
with Misting’s breeder, Sir
Chester Manifold, chairman of
the V.R.C. As the horses
passed the post, her Majesty
gave the winner a warm hand-
clap, and turned to congratulate
Lady Manifold and her
daughter, Sally, who race the
colt.
• •; • *
Misting, a rather plain-look-
mg grey, is not a big colt, but
he is strongly muscled. There
is now a suggestion that his
owners will pay the late fee of
£lOOO to run the colt in the
Golden Slipper Stakes.
Looking to the spring,
Nilento’s run in the Sires
Produce was very good. A
powerfully - built gelding,
Nilento has not had much
experience, and will improve
with racing. He could be a
Derby hope.
• •' •' •
Most surprising feature of
My Hour’s win in last Satur-
day’s Newmarket Handicap,
was his price—lo to 1. The
four-year-old son of Bright
Hour has been most consistent
on this visit to Melbourne, and
last Saturday week scored an
impressive win in the Hawks-
burn Handicap at Caulfield.
• • • •
My Hour is raced by
Adelaide brothers A. and J.
Trim, who are twins, and
trained by George Jessop, well
known as the former trainer of
Royal Gem. The Trim
brothers bought My Hour for
£lOOO last spring, and since
then have won eight races with
him. After his Newmarket win,
it was said that My Hour
would be spelled, and brought
back to racing in time for the
rich sprint events in Queens-
land during the winter. My
Hour carried 8.9 in the New-
market, and the handicapper is
sure to give him plenty of
weight in races like the Strad-
broke Handicap and Doomben
£lO,OOO.
Big disappointment of the
day’s racing at Flemington was
the dismal showing of Pedro’s
Pride in the Glamis Steeple-
chase, the race put on by the
V.R.C. to cater for the Queen
Mother’s love of steeplechas-
ing. The big mare, who was
the star of last year’s jumping
season, never at any stage of
the Glamis looked a danger.
Her preparation for the
important steeplechase was
hindered by a leg injury, and
she certainly raced like a horse
well short of condition.
• • • •
Elandery, prepared by
Warrnambool trainer Kevin
Lafferty, won the Glamis in
the record time (for the 2\
miles) of 4.41. This aged geld-
ing had built up an impressive
record in Victoria’s Western
District, but his run in the
Glamis was his first metropoli-
tan start over the sticks. He
will assuredly win more races
in the city, and at this early
stage looks a typical National
chance. Kevin Lafferty, who
took to training after the war,
has concentrated on jumpers,
and has made a successful
habit of buying potential
jumping horses cheaply and
doing well with them.
The V.R.C.’s Autumn carni-
val continues today (Wednes-
day) at Flemington. Main race
on today’s card is the £l5OO
C. M. Lloyd Stakes, a mile
weight-for-age event. The
third day of the meeting, next
Saturday, sees the £3500 St.
Leger, a mile - and - three -
quarters classic event for three-
year-olds, the £2OOO Queen’s
Plate over 10 furlongs at
w.f.a. and the £2OOO Ascot
Vale Stakes (a two-year-old
six - furlongs event with
penalties).
• • • •
The meeting concludes next
Monday, Labor Day holiday in
Melbourne, and feature races
on that day will be the £4OOO
Australian Cup over 2 miles
1 furlong and 110yds., the
£3OOO Carbine Stakes at w.f.a.
over two miles and a quarter
and the £2OOO A. V. Kewney
Stakes over 10 furlongs, a race
for three-year-old fillies.
• - • • •
Flemington Selections:
St. Leger: Prince Darius, 1;
Tulloch, 2 ; Tuki, 3.
Australian Cup: Droll
Prince, 1 ; Pushover, 2;
Bundabah, 3.
• • • •
The Australian Cup, although
the main handicap of Mel-
bourne’s autumn carnival, is
not a good horse’s race. At
this time of the year there are
so many rich weight-for-age
events that the best horses are
set for those prizes, rather than
the Cup. Looking through the
record, one cannot see many
good horses listed among the
Australian Cup winners.
• • • •
Possibly the best horse ever
to win the Cup was Spearfelt,
who won in 1927 and set a
weight-carrying record —9.13 —
for the race. The record still
stands. The previous year
Spearfelt had won the Mel-
bourne Cup before a record
crowd of, 126,000, an extra-
ordinary attendance consider-
ing the population of Mel-
bourne at that time.
Ron Hutchinson, rated Mel-
bourne’s best rider over a


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, G. GORDON RUSSELL, A. MURRAY JONES,
HUGH DIXSON.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world-ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
distance, has ridden four Aus-
tralian Cup winners, but his
record pales before the wonder-
ful feat of Tom Hales, who
rode eight winners of the race
between 1875 and 1890. There
is a peculiar sidelight to the
history of the Cup. In 1872
Saladin and Flying Dutchman
ran a dead-heat. The race was
rerun, and the two horses
dead-heated again. A third
run-off was necessary before
Saladin got the decision.
• • • •
The V.R.C. St. Leger is one
of the oldest races in the Aus-
tralian calendar, dating back to
1857. It has been mentioned
that Tom Hales rode the Aus-
tralian Cup winner eight times.
His record in the St. Leger
was even more extraordinary.
He won that race no fewer than
10 times in 15 years. Time-
record for the race stands to
the credit of Reading, who ran
the 14 furlongs in 1940 in 2.56.
The Meadow Mist-Busybody
colt mentioned here last week
topped the Australian Blood-
stock Agency sale in Mel-
bourne last Friday. Trainer
Fred Hoysted paid 2100gns. for
the colt. A colt by Hydrogen
out of Lady Tonga brought
2000gns.
* * *
The A.J.C. Doncaster Handi-
cap will be run at Randwick on
April 5. Next main trials will
be at Rosehill (March 22), the
£2OOO Quality Handicap; and
at Warwick Farm (March 29),
the £1250 Liverpool Handicap,
both at seven furlongs. If
there is a better performance
by a Doncaster aspirant at
either fixture than that handed
out by Grenoble in the War-
wick Farm Denham Court
Handicap, then it will be good,
because Grenoble’s perform-
ance really was first-class.
Grenoble was pre - post
favorite for the big mile before
latest outing, but he is much
firmer now, and trainer Frank
Lewis is looking forward to
the Doncaster with confidence.
Grenoble came from the rear
of the field to win in grand
style, and had the race been at
seven furlongs instead of six
he would have started at half
the price (5-to-l).
Grenoble will be given more
racing before the Doncaster
1 Handicap, as his trainer believes
he needs it. The four-year-old
gelding is bigger than at any
time previously, and further
competition will make him
particularly fit for the £6OOO
Doncaster. The main thing
Lewis wants to avoid is a
penalty. Grenoble has 8.5 in
the mile, 21b. less than he won
with at the Farm, but he will be
sent along in the weights from
now on.
Three two-year-olds won
their first races at Warwick
Farm, two in grand style, and
their form presages further
success in better company. Re-
draw was all-out to beat her
opponents in the First Two-
year-old Maiden for fillies, but
Adareve won the Second
division with a brilliant final
burst. Hurry By, having his
first race - outing, landed a
fortune for followers of Darby
Munro’s stable in the Juvenile
Maiden for colts and geldings.
Munro also won with Redraw
- —his first winning double since
becoming a trainer.
Adareve was expected to im-
prove on earlier outings, when
she had started at long odds.
She had galloped brilliantly at
Randwick. Midget apprentice
W. Nock handled the filly in
fine style and brought her with
a final fast run to beat Squander
Girl and El Rita, a sister to El
Khobar, now racing in
America. Adareve is named
after the famous entertainer.
• • • •
In minor places at two of
her four prevous starts, Redraw
opened her winning account in
the First Two-year-old Maiden
at Warwick Farm after being
one of the first two all the way.
She was acquired in N.Z. as a
yearling for a modest 300gns.,
and is raced by Mrs. C.
A. J. Janssen. The filly is
by Faux Tirage (imp.), sire of
Straight Draw and Knave,
among many other smart
gallopers, and is from Avon-
more by Defaulter from Lady
Middleham by Paper Money
(imp.). Redraw is bred on the
same cross as Knave, which
won 11 races and £26,967 in
stakes.'
Jose started at 100 to 1 for
the First Three - year - old
Maiden Handicap at Warwick
Farm, which was his right
price. A week earlier he was
quoted at 250 to 1 for the
Rosehill Auburn Stakes and
finished a long last to Paranilo.
He also went out at 200 to 1
when he shaped poorly in Tres
Chaud’s Rosehill Maiden on
February 9. Despite those
poor displays and his 100 to 1,
the stable gave him a good
each-way chance at the Farm
and engaged George Mulley.
This was because Jose had run
the best five-furlongs of the
morning at Rosebery two days
before the race. It wasn’t
surprising in the circumstances
that he came fast from last place
at the home-turn to narrowly
miss a place.
» • • •
Trainer Leo O’Sullivan, at
Warwick Farm last Saturday,
had four runners at the meet-
ing. At Flemington he had
hoped for success in the VRC
Newmarket Handicap with his
speedy New Spec, but after
looking all-over a winner until
the final few strides New Spec
was beaten by My Hour with
Zariba third. O’Sullivan’s
runners at the Farm, Teranyan,
Bidgee Stream, Angevin, and
Salador, all missed a place, so
Saturday last wasn’t O’Sulli-
van’s day.
Backers of 16-to-l Staride,
narrow winner of Warwick
Farm Second Three-year-old
Maiden, couldn’t have chosen
the gelding on any prior form
because he had failed in nine
earlier starts, with a second at
Rosehill in April of last year as
the only run worth noting.
Most punters stick to form,
but occasionally they get a
hunch for a runner, and per-
haps Staride was one of those
“stabs in the dark”! , What-
ever it was, it was a successful
venture, because the Edwardsii
gelding landed the money, if
by a nose only. He is raced by
H. P. McCormick, who has
been lucky in photo-finishes.
He had been fortunate on
several previous occasions,
Staride is from the Beaupartir
mare.Lowan, whose 13 wins as
a race-mare included a Tam-
worth Cup.
Lionel Israel, of Segenhoe
Stud, Scone, was in happy
mood at Warwick Farm
because three of the progeny
of his sire Nilo (imp.) won in
the nine - event programme.
They were Adareve, Ulandra
and Dare Say. Despite his prior
win in fine style at Canterbury
Park on February 12, Dare Say
drifted out of favor from 6 to
1 to 10's. Terry Brosnan owns
and trains the four-year-old
and conceded him a great show
after his brilliant finish at
Canterbury. Actually he was
lucky to have found the fielders
in such generous mood, as
Dare Say was never in danger
of defeat. Young Bawden had
his mount with the lead all the
way and he easily defeated the
favorite, Gay Emperor. Rank
outsider Prince Charming was
third.
* * *
Brisbane racing last Saturday
was at Albion Park, where
winners included Harton in the
Maiden Handicap. Moderately
fancied, the gelding is a pro-
duct of the Aluinn Stud, Rox-
burgh (N.S.W.), and cost
700gns. as a yearling. He is by
Genetout (Fr.) from East Rose
by St. Magnus (imp.) and traces
back on the dam’s side to The
Tetrarch. Last Race wasn’t
raced, and Harton is her first
progeny. Several of his
relatives were successful over-
seas.
* * *
Trotting
Punters fared badly at Harold
Park Trots on Saturday night,
only two favorites, Little Grace
and Sandy Highland, landing
the bacon, Fifteen-year-old
pacer Victory Dale (20-to-l)
won the £lOOO 151-furlongs
Harold Park Handicap by
threequarters of a length from
the 5-to-4-on favorite King
Ranji, with Brilliant Moon
(9-to-2) four lengths away
third. Victory Dale had not
been placed in his previous 16
starts, but had often finished
close to the leaders in shorter
races. The old horse appreci-
ated the extra distance —and the
absence of many of his old
rivals at the Inter-Dominion
Championships in Adelaide.


OPES
of Every Type
and Size
Famous for many
years as Queensland’s
premier manufacturers
of envelopes we pro-
duce the well known—
“JAXUL” PATENT
CLEAR - FACE WIN-
DOW Envelopes in
sizes 5f ins. x 3J ins.,
6§ x 3f and 9 ins. x
4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED En-
velopes in all sizes,
No. 1 to No. 8.
Plain or Printed
COMMERCIAL En -
velopes in all standard
sizes and qualities,
plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application
lockson &
O’Sullivan ptym
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers <6 Printers
304-2108 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Lying sixth at the beJl-lap
Victory Dale ranged up on the
outside of King Ranji (who
had taken the lead from
Brilliant Moon at the home-
turn) and outstayed the King
Warra-Marie’s Pride horse to
win comfortably.
The other long - priced
winners were Apex Queen
(6-to-l), Private Dixie (20-to-l).
Charleval (40-to-l), Gay Cole
(16-to-l) and Field Dixie
(6-to-l).
N. S. Wales pacers fared
badly in the first heat of the
Inter-Dominion championships
run at Wayville, Adelaide, on
Saturday night. The heat (of
10 Ivrlongs 84yds.) was run
in four divisions, and points
are allotted —4 for first, 2 for
second and 1 for third, with
3 points also for the horse with
the fastest time. Point-scorers
to date are:
Kiwi Dillon (W.A.) 7, Cari Bar
(Vic.) 4, Moon Raider (S.A.) 4,
Fettle (N.S.W.) 4, Chief Spring
(S.A.) 4, Caduceiis (N.Z.) 3, False
Step (N.Z.) 3, Third Rank (S.A.) 2,
Beloro (S.A.) 2, Free Hall (S.A.) 2,
Gambling Raid (Vic.) 2, Para Step
(S.A.) 1, Hedonist (S.A.) 1, Sibelia
(N.S.W.) 1.
The second heat will be run
tonight (Wednesday) in four
divisions and will be of 11
furlongs 140yds.
And Sundry Sports
In the N.S.W., women's
athletic championships triple
Olympic gold-medalist Betty
Cuthbert twice equalled the
world-record for the 100yds.,
10.45ec., set by Marjorie Jack-
son in Sydney in March, 1952.
The two runs were in a heat
and in the final, when she
narrowly defeated her also-
speedy rival Marlene
Matthews. On Jan. 18 this
year in Perth Betty Cuthbert
equalled another world-record
(23.65ec., by the Russian
Itkina, for the 220yds.); and it
would seem only a matter of
time before she betters either
of them, or both.
* * *
In their first game in France,
m the rain and sleet at Nice,
the Wallabies comfortably
defeated Riviera Province 17-0.
They crossed the line five
times. This was the Wallabies’'
best win since their 29-5 victory
(scoring seven tries) over
Southern Counties in their
opening game in Britain on
Nov. 6, and the only time
since that they’ve scored five
or more tries. In their next
game, however, on Saturday,
a French “B” team beat them
8-3, at Bordeaux.
The Australian surf-
championships were held on
Saturday at lovely Scarborough
beach (Perth). The blue-
ribbon rescue-and-resuscitation
event was won by Cottesloe
(W.A.), with Bundaberg (Q.)
second and North Bondi
(N.S.W.) third. The march-
past was won by North Bondi;
the teams event also went to
North Bondi, with Cottesloe
runners - up. In individual
events Colin McFarlane
(Manly, N.S.W.) won the senior
belt-race, John Donohue
(North Bondi) won the senior
surf-race (one of three good
swims by Donohue during the
afternoon), and J. Rodgers
(Maroubra) came in first in the
open surf-race.
* * *
' The Australian women
cricketers seemed to be heading
for a thrashing when, in the
second Test on rain-soaked St.
Kilda ground, they were dis-
missed by England for a mere
38, English captain Mary
Duggan taking 7-6. But the
visitors did no better—all out
for 35. Then Australia closed
at 9-202 and, at the end, was
definitely on top, England being
8-76 and struggling hard. (With
no play the first day, the game
had become a two-day affair.)
The particular star of the
match was Victorian all-
rounder Betty Wilson, who
made 12 (only double-figure
scorer that innings) and 100,
and took 7-7, including the hat-
trick, and 4-9. Male Test all-
rounders like Richie Benaud
can only ever dream of doing
as wonderfully as that.
* * *
Matched at long last, Aus-
tralia’s two best middleweights,
Clive Stewart, who hails from
Queensland, and Sydney boy
Billy McDonnell met last
Friday night at Melbourne
Stadium; and the challenger,
Stewart, favorite all through in
the betting, duty won the Aus-
tralian crown. McDonnell
(who has twice held the title,
which he first won in Dec.,
1955, from Pran Mikus) fought
gamely, but was outpunched by
the hard-hitting Stewart; k.o.
in the 11th round. Stewart has
had a string of easy wins over
importations, most of whom,
however, were nowhere near
his class ; but he fully proved
that class by his defeat of Mc-
Donnell.
* * *
“C.A.A.”: The 20 Mel-
bourne Demons who last year
won Melbourne's third succes-
sive V.F.L. grand-final have
each received a unique trophy
—a replica on a flat metal plate
of the M.C.G. scoreboard,
showing the scores at the end
of the “grand.” The plate,
mounted on a wooden back,
stands on a wooden base which
extends forward to support a
silver ashtray.
* * *
“Sandgrove”: The fifth N.Z.
cricket-team to tour England
this year has an average age
of 28. The batting is experi-
enced but might be brittle;
bowling is fair to good ;
wicketkeeping good; fielding
promising; captaincy (J. R.
Reid, 29) determined. . Eleven
of the 16 have had Test
experience; Cave (vice-
captain), Sutcliffe, Reid and
Hayes were in England with
the 1949 team. A great left-
handed opener in those days,
Sutcliffe has lost his assurance
against the fastest bowling and
is now more effective at No.
3 or No. 4. Cave was rated
very highly by Craig’s team as
a medium-paced right-hander.
* * *
“Veryl”: Re those suggested
names for Australian Rules
(B. 26/2/’5B). The winning
name in a competition recently
conducted by Melbourne
“Herald” was “Mark.” I agree,
though, with “P.0.M.C.” that
a popular name for a sport can’t
be designed—and am prepared
to bet that the game will con-
tinue to be described in Mel-
bourne (somewhat arrogantly)
as “football” and in Sydney
(outrageously) as “aerial ping-
pong.”
* * m
“Atala”: One of the N.S.W.
cricketers in Adelaide recently
for the inter-State schoolboys’
championships was a 13-year-
old lad from Bowral, John
Tully, who batted at No. 3 for
N.S.W. While in Adelaide he
met another “boy from
Bowral” (who also once batted
No. 3 for N.S.W. —and Aus-
tralia), and if he does almost as
well with the bat as the older
boy he’ll be good enough. The
chap he met was, of course, Sir
Donald Bradman.
* * *
“Bicky”: Over the years Aus-
tralian racehorses have done
well in America both as sires
and as race-performers. Phar
Lap, Winooka, Shannon,
Royal Gem, Bernborough, El
Khobar and Don Vista, to
name a fewj have made their
mark in American racing.
Qakleigh Plate winner Dubbo,
should he go across, would
probably earn his share of
dollars there, too. Also of
interest is the proposal to send
to America Victorian steeple-
chaser Noble Law, who made a
successful ' comeback from
retirement recently, to run in
the International Steeplechase
at Belmont Park on May 1.
This event, in which all horses
carry the same weight of 1d.7,
and which will be contested by
horses from America, Argen-
tina, England and France,
should suit Noble Law. It is
run over his pet distance, two
miles, and 10.7 should be a
“luxury” impost.
* - * *
“Tom”: Sons of two former
Rugby League stars could take
the field against each other
when the next British Rugby
Union side visits Australia. Last
season, young Brian Thick-
nesse, son of former Australian
Rugby League scrum-half Viv
Thrcknesse, did well in that
position in his first year in
Sydney first-grade Rugby
Union. One of the best players
in the North-western Counties
team that beat the Wallabies
6-3 at Liverpool (Eng.) recently
was five-eighth Beverley Ris-
man, 19-year-old son of Gus
Risman, former English Rugby
League centre and captain.


CUARD
Cd*h/
sufith' cu .
PROTECTA LA
Slml- ftjf
Suitable for every type of business it record*
all Sales. Credits. Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for full details
and literature lo
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE •
ADELAIDE •
PERTH •
W, C. Pen fold A Co. Pty. Ltd.
• Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
Vardon Price Ltd.
Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy any Steele Rudd paper-
cover books, also The Bulletin,
“Sydney Mail” and “Town and
Country Journal” for either 1914,
1915 or 1916.—6677.
A 1952 copy of “A.M.” in which
there appeared an article, “In
Search of Culture,” by Charles
Santos. —6678.
To buy, new or second-hand, one
copy each of 1001 Chicago After-
noons, by Ben Hecht; More Interest-
ing People, by Robert S. Casey;
Louis Untermeyer’s A Treasury of
Laughter; An Encyclopcedia of
Modern American Humour, edited
by Bennett Cerf; and the biography
of the late Harold Ross, founder-
editor of “The New Yorker,” —
6676.
Information Sought
Any known method of stopping
pears dropping off trees l\’fore
they're ripe ?
The first explanation is dryness at
the roots of the trees. While the
fruit is growing in size, the trees
should never be short of water;
pears are pretty firmly attached, and
should stay on the trees till fully
ripe. Other likely causes are early
attacks by fruit-fly and codling-
moth. To make a correct diagnosis,
it would be necessary to know the
age of the trees, their situation and
soil, their variety, and how they
have been fed and watered. For
further information consult your
fruit - inspector ; meantime, make
sure the trees don’t go thirsty.
* * * *
Names of some of the big British
libraries ? Which is the largest ?
The largest library in Britain is
at the British Museum in London,
with over 5,000,000 printed books;
there are also national libraries of
Scotland (at Edinburgh) and Wales
(at Aberystwyth). Other general
libraries of similar size are the
Bodleian Library (Oxford) and the
Cambridge University Library.
These five are “copyright” libraries,
having the right to a free copy of
each book published in Britain. The
London Library (600,000 volumes) is
the most important private-subscrip-
tion library. Specialist libraries of
particular interest in London include
the Art Library at the Victoria and
Albert Museum, the Public Record
Office (which contains the National
Archives), the National Library for
the Blind (over 301,000 volumes in
Braille and Moon types), the
Science Library at South Kensington,
the Natural History Museum
Library, the Central Music Library,
the Patents Office Library, and the
British Library of Political and
Economic Science. The Arts
Council has recently founded a
reference-library of modern English
poetry, ' which is housed at the
National Book League.
Public libraries are maintained by
local authorities in every county and
county-borough and by many
boroughs and urban district-councils.
In rural areas there is a travelling-
library service. In 1950 these public
libraries held between them over 42-
million books and had an annual
circulation-issue of over 311 million.
The National Central Library is a
centre for inter-library lending (both
in Britain and abroad) and has
access to over 21-million books.
* * * ♦
Can / get enough power, \yith
Jsooft. o’f lin. polythene piping with
a fall of 100 ft., to drive a pelton-
wheel connected to a 32-volt D.C.
“Tickle him!”
generator? I want to generate 20
amps, for charging 32-volt batteries.
Would it be easier to drive a 32-volt
A.C. generator?
It would appear that with 100 ft.
head and 1500 ft. run of lin. pipe,
the flow would only amount to
about 7ygals. per minute due to
friction-losses in the pipe. This is
roughly one-fifth of the amount
required, and to get the necessary
flow a 2in. pipe at least would be
needed; this would be quite an
expensive item.
As regards using an A.C. genera-
tor : this wouldn’t be an easy
proposition, as the generator would
require governing and accurate
voltage-control. As far as is known,
small A.C. generators are not readily
available. The D.C. generator and
battery would be the most satis-
factory for such a small plant, with
the advantage that all parts are easily
obtainable.
The design of a pelton-wheel is a
somewhat lengthy job, but Coates
and Co., 664 Botany Road,
Alexandria, Sydney, are agents for
a British manufacturer supplying
small water-turbine sets, the smallest
lkw. output. Such a machine
iequires about 10.6 cu. ft. (66gals.
water per minute at 125 ft. head) and
correspondingly more at lower
heads. The pipeline would be a
costly item.
* * + *
Some details of the Berlin air-
lift soon after World War II ?
On March 19, 1948, the Soviet
Military Governor in Germany,
Marshal Sokolovsky, walked out and
thus finally disrupted the Allied
Control Council in Berlin, ostensibly
as a protest against the economic
linking-up of the three Western
zones and of the decision of the
London Six Power Conference of
March 6, 1948, recommending,
among other things, the establish-
ment of a Federal system of govern-
ment in Western Germany.
A partial blockade of Berlin by
the Soviets began on April 1, 1948.
On June 24 the Russians suspended
all rail, road and canal traffic into
Berlin. The Anglo-American air-lift
to Berlin began on June 25, 1948,
and ended on Sept. 30, 1949. The
Russian blockade was lifted at
midnight on May 11, 1949.
In the early days of the air-lift
about 3000 tons of supplies were
carried into Berlin daily in about
400 flights; later the daily average
of supplies reached a steady 8000-
9000 tons, flown in by 600-odd
flights. The peak was reached on
April 16. 1949, when the U.S.A.F.
and R.A.F. carried between them
12,849 tons of supplies in 1383
flights, which landed at intervals of
63sec.
British aircraft used included
Lancasters, Yorks, Tudors, Dakotas,
Halifaxes and Sunderland flying-
boats; they flew from either
Wunstorf or Fassberg, in the then
British zone of Germany. The
U.S.A.F. used mainly Skymasters
and a few Dakotas; they flew from
Frankfurt, in the U.S. zone.
After the first year’s operations
it was announced that 1,728,000 tons
of -supplies had been flown in to
Berlin. This had been accomplished
with the loss of 58 British, American
and German lives, and 18 R.A.F.
and 36 U.S. planes. On Oct. 19,
1949, it was stated in the House of
Commons that the air-lift had cost
Britain £10,250,000. The U.S.A.F.
gave its total operational costs at
$252,540,000.
The then British Foreign Minister,
Ernest Bevin, said on March 23,
1949, “That resistance to the
Russian attempt to drive us out of
Eastern Germany was the first
arrest of the onward march; and
it has been cheap—one year’s cost
of the air-lift being equal to one
aay of war.”
Commenting on the news that the
blockade was about to be lifted,
The Bulletin (11/5/’49) said, “All
the Russians achieved by their btock-
ade was to make Berlin’s millions
suffer privations through the winter
and hate its imposers a bit more ; the
Russians themselves getting a
decidedly steadying close-up of U.S.-
British capacity and efficiency aloft,
and the whole Western side being
by the crude aggression welded in the
unity symbolised by the Atlantic
Pact.” (Negotiations for the North
Atlantic alliance began in Dec.,
1948, and the pact was signed in
Washington on April 4, 1949.)
* * * *
(1) Should my barometer (/ live
ai Bingara, 870 ft. above sea-level )
show -the same reading as a
barometer w a town 1250 ft. above
sea-level ? (2) Would a barometer
set at sea-level show much differ-
ence to higher settings above sea-
level ?
(From the N.S.W. Meteorological
Bureau.) (1) Apart from minor
considerations, air - pressure
decreases more or less uniformly
with height. It an aneroid
barometer, which is in effect a
pressure-measuring device, is moved
vertically from a position at -sea-
level, the hand will move to lower
leadings on the dial, indicating
lower pressures; i.e., air-pressure is
related to height above sea-level.
Even though a particular place may
be away from the coast, at the same
height above sea-level the barometer
will read the same.: So the reading
at Bingara will always be about
3 / lOin. higher than, say, the reading
at Tamworth (1250 ft. above sea-
level), provided the instruments
originally read the same at sea-level.
(2) In N.S.W. it is unlikely that
the indicator would vary more than
2in. between highest and lowest
readings ever recorded at that place.
If the hand points to “Change” on
the average, it will never move
around as far as “Fine” or
“Stormy.”
Brief Answers
Would inquirer No. 6662 please
forward address? ... .W.A.W.: The
nearest to what you want are:
belubula, stony creek; broula, place
of trickling water; bundilla, place
where waters meet; burrumbeet,
round lake, muddy water; canowie,
locky waterhole; carvooia, waters
meeting on a plain; cowandilla,
drinking-water place; dingabledinga,
place of much water; gralunga,
sandy place; gumbowie, one-spring
waterhole; imara, salt - water;
kapunda, rocky waterhole; karthina,
water; lakala, boggy, swampy;
malloga, deep waterhole; mercowie,
clear water; mooltunya, pool;
moorowie, dusty water; morialta,
ever-flowing; pambula, two waters;
terang, fresh lake; tora, land near
creeks; warooka, muddy water-
hole; witonga, a reedy place;
yarramie, little creek E.T.: Can’t
accept such advertising unless it
has been censored by the Health


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO JOHN WHITFIELD DUNSTON
late of Moss Vale in the State of New
SOL T TH WALES.—TAKE NOTICE that
DELMA ADA JOYCE DUNSTON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4428
of 1957 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to
defend yoti may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
House King Street Sydney by the 2nd
day of May 1958 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from WHIT-
FIELD DAVIS & CO., Solicitors, of 10S
John Street, Singleton; or from their
City Agents, GOULD & SHAW, Soli-
citors, of 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO THEODORE LUCAS HARRISON
formerly of Albany W.A. and Wollon-
gong N.S.W. —TAKE NOTICE that your
wife THEA CONSTANCE HARRISON
has commenced proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia for Divorce on the ground of de-
sertion for a continuous period of three
years or more If you desire to defend
such proceedings you must file your
defence or counter-claim at the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth in
the State of Western Australia within
Forty clear days from the date of this
.publication In default of your so doing
the case may proceed and the Court will
pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. DATED
this 17th day of February, 1958. —-
G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
HOLIDAY RESORTS
Torquay, Victoria,
Offers holiday bookings from
2nd February onwards.
g. r. McCartney,
Victorian Estate Agent.
Phone 366.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
Thf only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ing’s. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A.. B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
fences and gates, leaving no
option but the pilgrim’s
progress, for ever upward, on
the other side.
Underneath the house, on
ground-level, were the wood-
shed and the laundry. Pro-
vision for storing wood
appeared to have been so
designed as to place the point
of storage as far as possible
away from the point of use —
i.e., the fireplace in the living-
room. Every log for burning
had to be wrestled from under
the house—after having been
carefully put under the house
to prevent it getting wet —
brought up the back steps,
through the kitchen, through
the hall, and into the living-
room.
MOBODY would deny that
the modern washing-
machine is a great benefit in
every house to every housewife.
Its value, though, surely is in
some relation to the general
domestic economy: kitchen and
laundry for so many interlock-
ing purposes belong together,
or at least in a handy proximity.
But not here: by placing the
laundry directly under the
kitchen, with a steep flight of
steps in between, the builder
ensured (a) that the laundry
would be done, and the cook-
ing forgotten ; ( b ) that the
cooking would be done, and the
laundry forgotten ; (c) that the
housewife engaged herself in
a series of flying sorties up
and down the steps.
Other minor points also could
be listed. As I have said, all
these things, taken separately,
were minor: their evil lay in
the way they congealed into a
mass of irritations and per-
plexities which soon damned
the house in our eyes, despite
all its real and more evident
charms —its warmth, friend-
liness, freshness; its views,
solidity, stability, attractiveness
to the passing eye.
None of the wrong things
done to it was done either in
malice or indifference. No-
body could deny that it was a
nice house and a good home,
built for value and built to
last. That was the really
depressing thing about it: the
minor torments may have
been merely ants crawling
across the surface of one's
contentment, but ants can
bite hard, and are not pleasant
to live with.
MEVER in history has
there been more talk, in
the home-making world, about
labor-saving devices, never
more about modern con-
veniences, never more about
imaginative skill of architects
and the solid good sense of
builders, determined to get
away from the conventionally
dull old-time kind of house.
But how often, in the end
result, are labor-saving in fact
labor-making devices, modern
conveniences actually modern
inconveniences, imaginative
architecture little more than
hare-brained experimentalism
by experts who don’t have to
live in their creations, while
solid common-sense would
suggest little more than
approaching the same problem
from the other side of the
fence, substituting novelty for
real planning.
Department or 8.M.A.... .D.L.:
Sorry, but can’t ask readers for
words ot songs of which there are
known to be unprintable versions
E.A.W.: The latest figures available
lor Victoria’s wine-grape acreage
are for the season 1951-52, when
7400 acres of wine-grapes were
grown in that State. In Western
Australia in the 1953-54 season 2800
acres of wine-grapes were grown.
Acreage of wine-grapes in Victoria
is likely to be somewhat smaller
now than it was in 1951-52, but it
would still be far in excess of the
Western Australian acreage.... Siri:
(1) General Lucius D. Clay was
U.S. Military Governor in Ger-
many at the time of the Berlin air-
lift (see Information Sought in this
week’s Service page). (2) All of
them remained neutral throughout
World War 11....D.8.: (1)
Recently published is the Odhams
Encyclopaedia for Children, available
from Angus and Robertson, Ltd.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
(Price 375. 6d., postage and packing
2s. 6d. extra.) (2) See Wild Life of
Our World, edited by John R.
Crossland and J. M. Parris, .also
available from Angus and Robert-
son. For children 8-15 years; price
17s. (post. Is. lOd.) P.D.:
Longfgllow’s poem “Hiawatha” was
set to music as a trilogy of cantatas
by Samuel Coleridge Taylor. It
consisted of “Hiawatha's Wedding
Feast,” “The Death of Minnehaha’’
and “Hiawatha’s Departure”
W.S.: (1) “Spudding-in” is the term
used for beginning the drilling for
oil. (2) Unesco stands for United
Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organisation R.H.: Bao
Dai, Emperor of Annam, came to
the throne in 1932 and, following the
various partitionings of his country
in 1954, was forced to abdicate in
October, 1955. He now lives in
exile in Franqe... .W.J.C.: (1) The
Holtermann Nugget, found at Hill
End (N.S.W.) in 1872, is the biggest
single mass of gold ever found
(75600 z.). (2) The Working Men’s
Club at Mildura (Vic.) has the
longest bar in the world—so all the
authorities claim. Length is 285 ft.
P.C.: (1) Hail Mary, full of
grace. (2) In God is my hope
G.N.T.: (1) Lucerne-meal is
included in some proprietary sheep-
pellets. If these pellets are fed
reasonably fresh, vitamin-A require-
ments should be met. (2)
Vitamin-A supplements that are
available commercially include oil,
emulsions and water-soluble prepara-
tions. All are equally good,
the main guide being cost per
million units of vitamin-A
D.J.8.: The substance anhydrite
consists of calcium - sulphate,
CaSO4, but differs from gypsum
in that it contains no water of
crystallisation.... J.V.: Jammu,
Jamu or Jummoo is the capital of
the State of Jammu and Kashmir
(India), and is situated about 80
miles north of Amritsar. It was once
a seat of a Rajput dynasty, now the
residence of the Maharajah of
Kashmir. Population is 32,000....
N.G.M.: The first commercial air-
craft to fly non-stop from Honolulu
tc Sydney (5178 miles) was a Super-
Constellation on a delivery-flight to
Qantas. It arrived at Mascot on
Oct. 28 last year after a flight ot
just over 22hrs., and was fitted
with special 500 gal. fuel-tanks on
each wing.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
A fame and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contribution voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
L.K.: More-or-less on the right
track; try to stick to the main
thread of the story H.S.: The
idea’s good ; construction p00r....
1.P.: Bunyips are tricky things to
write about... .G.M.: “Pattering
raindrops, pinging staccato on the
footpath” pattered 0ut....E.E.:
Gradually got worse; the last stanza
Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims which state the
section in which paragraphs
appear and the date of
appearance will be paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
was atrocious V.J.: Well, it has
its merits—and its demerits.... 8.5.:
Why say “destined to a particularly
ignoble end”? “Gone goose” is
more to the point Mary: Con-
trary, Mary S.J.H.: Send
“Seances, Ancient and Modern” to
a seance-magazine, either ancient
ot modern J.A.: No, your rhym-
ings are quite legitimate ; it just lacks
point and purpose D.W.: Dread-
fu1....T.R.: You don’t say!....
J.8.E.; “All Hail the Queen
Mother” loyal enough in sentiment
but lacking in poetic quality,..,
K.H.: The same more-or-less
applies to your poem on the Royal
visitor, although it went within a
hairsbreadth of acceptance C.S.:
Amateurish in treatment... .N.D.:
Story too colorless and insignificant.
L.S.: Trumped the cardsharp
at his first trick... .FI.M.: Your
pug, too, was k.o.’d in the first
round... .K.McK.G.: Weak end-
mg; build-up was good, suspense
well controlled, but the story fizzled
out. Have another go at the ending
—perhaps he did murder her?....
Alf B.: Put a bit more life into
the characters of Queenie, Wheeler
and lan Lambston, and it might
click A.M.: “The Breaking ot
the Drought” won’t break our cash-
box E.R.: Not particularly
interested in King Farouk these
days Freddy : A Life of former
Argentinian dictator Peron is a bit
oft The Bulletin’s beat, t 00....
David H.: If you continue to pro-
gress at your present rate, the
chances are extremely rosy of your
achieving publication by about a.d.
2158 A.E.: No tip for that bar
maid.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE SUMMIT AND NON-AGGRESSION
DISCUSSING the current
climate of opinion which
seems to favor “summit-talks”
and a non-aggression pact with
the Soviet, Air-Marshal Sir
Robert Saundby, writing in
London “Time and Tide,” .
suggests that “the signature of a
non-aggression pact would
make no difference whatsoever
to the outlook and policy of the
Soviet Union, which never
ceases to increase its military
strength while loudly proclaim-
ing its devotion to the cause of
peace”:
“But our [Britain’s] policy
is greatly influenced by public
opinion and if we sign a non-
aggression pact we cannot
cynically proceed to ignore its
existence. We must show at
least some faith in it.
“Much of our present policy
would be inconsistent with such
faith. Could we continue, in
concert with the other Nato
countries, to maintain a power-
ful nuclear deterrent? Could
we go on spending vast sums
to develop long-range rockets
with megaton warheads, which
can have only one purpose?
Could we go on allowing the
Americans to base heavy
bombers in this country—
equipped and ready to use H-
bombs at short notice and
permit the building of inter-
mediate-range rocket-launching
sites on our territory?
“If the Opposition were to
challenge this vast expenditure
on defence and the stationing
of American Air Forces in the
United Kingdom and ask
whether we believe in the non-
aggression pact or not, what
is the Government to answer ?
“If the Government says that
it believes in the pact, then it
will be more difficult than ever
to persuade the people of this
country to forgo the further
expansion of the Welfare State
in favor of a sterile expendi-
ture on weapons of mass
destruction. Indeed, it will be
logically impossible to continue
to base our defence-policy on
deterring Communist aggres-
sion by means of the threat of
instant retaliation in over-
whelming strength. It would
New York "Herald Tribune”
UNFORTUNATELY , NO!
even be difficult, if not im-
possible, to justify our member-
ship of Nato, an alliance
formed for the sole purpose of
deterring Russian aggression.”
On the wisdom of “summit-
talks,” Saundby adds that “the
Russian object is to raise hopes
among peoples who are tired
of the cold war, the tension, the
never-ending burden of arma-
ments and who are inclined to
clutch at any straw. The
Russians think that if they can
encourage such hopes and get
the Western leaders round a
table, they cannot fail to im-
prove their own position.
“The Russian technique in
negotiations is simple and effec-
tive. They are careful to appear
accommodating and affable at
first and to build up an atmo-
sphere, which they can rely on
the press of the free world to
exploit, of sweet reasonableness.
They will always be prepared to
utter vague and pious general-
ities and will keep this going
as long as they can.
“When the Western leaders
nail them down to specific pro-
posals, their attitude suddenly
hardens and they put forward
once again all their well-worn
propositions designed to emas-
culate the free world, which
have been rejected over and
over again.
“They calculate that the
dismal prospect of failure will
prompt us to weaken and give
way. They themselves will
never give way ; they have an
Oriental attitude towards time
and are prepared—even happy
—to talk for months or years
to gain their ends.
“It is difficult to understand
why we should suppose that
we can improve our present
position by talking to the
Russians. The existing situation
has been largely contrived and
maintained by the Russians
because it suits them. They
like it that way. They would
change it only for something
that suits them better and there-
fore/ by definition, is less
favorable to the West.
' “But a belief in the efficacy
of high-level talking in a blaze
of publicity is a curious aber-
ration of the present age. The
fact that it has failed so con-
spicuously to achieve anything
of value is held by its pro-
tagonists to prove that there has
not yet been enough of it.
“You will never beat a
Russian chess-master by talk-
ing to him ; you can beat him
only by well-thought-out moves
in accordance with the rules of
the game. So it is in foreign
affairs, where skilful diplomacy
backed by military strength
may enable us eventually to find
a tolerable modus vivendi with
international Communism.
“Even this is a remote and
uncertain prospect, but what
is certain is that we can achieve
it in no other way.”
U.K. Defence
Press-comment on some of
the main events raised in the
latest British White Paper on
Defence :
London “Daily Express”:
“Decisions of paramount im-
portance” :
“The Navy is to play a bigger
role than had been envisaged.
Atomic warfare makes the
problem of Commonwealth
defence more vital, rather than
less.
“A strong Navy, able to take
commando troops quickly to
trouble spots, and equipped
with the atomic submarine, is
a main instrument of mobile
defence.
“Britain' is developing her
own ballistic rocket, designed
for launching from under-
ground.
“Britain must not for ever
depend for the H-bomb on even
so close an ally as the United
States.
“Belated common sense, with
a touch of imagination added,
has dictated the increases in
Service pay.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman” : “Of
considerable technical interest
is the news that Britain
possesses an intermediate-range
ballistic missile more advanced
in design than the ones to be
supplied by America. The pro-
vision for underground firing
is a logical improvement in
answer to the most pressing
needs of strategy, for surface
missile-bases will soon be highly
vulnerable. The rocket repre-
sents a very great achievement
of British engineering,
chemistry and electronics.”
* * *
London ‘‘Daily Mail” : “The
most reassuring aspect of the
whole White Paper is the
emphasis on the increasing
preparedness of the forces
which we possess. This is not
aggressive but realistic. It is the
one policy which has any hope
of producing an understanding
and a start to disarmament if
and when summit-talks take
place.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post” : “T h e
document makes it quite clear
that to abolish nuclear arms
would be to play into the hands
of a Power which is predomi-
nantly superior in conventional


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 18 78.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT If. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM 0. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND. Managing Director. N. R. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
forces. It would be to fight with
one hand tied behind the back,
and that the stronger hand.
Total peace must be the only
sane end; disarmament must
be the ultimate aim of all the
nations. But to tempt the Soviet
Union into conceivable military
adventure by such self-weaken-
ing would be no prudent way
to begin the composing of
differences.”
* * #
London “News Chronicle" :
“Paragraph 12, where the dyna-
mite lies, first makes the
categorical statement that the
‘democratic Western nations
will never start a war against
Russia.’ On this there can be
no argument. It then faces the
crucial question: What should
the West do if there is a major
attack on any part of the
alliance, even if this attack is
carried out with nothing but
conventional forces?
“The [Defence] Minister’s
answer is that the strategy of
Nato is based on recognition of
the fact that a full-scale Soviet
attack could not be repelled
without resort to nuclear
bombardment.
“ ‘lt is best,’ says the White
Paper, ‘that these stark facts
should be stated plainly ; since
the one thing which might con-
ceivably tempt the Soviet Union
into military adventure would
be .the erroneous belief that the
West, if attacked, would flinch
from its nuclear power.’ ”
* * *
London “Financial Times ” :
“The financial figures will not
confirm the worst fears either
of those who thought that
defence was being cut too little,
or of those who thought it
was going to be cut too much.
The net estimate for the coming
year at £l4lB million is £2
million below the original
estimate for the previous year.”
The same: “The pay-increases
themselves will certainly be
subject to some criticism. One
may reasonably be anxious
about the psychological effect
they will have on wage-claims.
On the other hand it is right
to face up to the necessary im-
plications of ending conscrip-
tion. If we are to have Services
which are entirely composed of
regulars, which are smaller but
more efficient, we must expect
to pay each individual man
more. This is partly a question
of productivity applied to
defence, and where productivity
rises one must expect pay to
rise with it.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph ” :
“At first sight the Minister’s
London “Daily Mail"
THE FIFTH LABOR OF HERCULES
economies are not so drastic as
the uneasiness of his military-
advisers had led us to expect.
After deducting receipts from
the Americans and Germans
for 1957-58 and the local costs
of British forces in Germany
for 1958-59 the estimate for
1958-59 is only £2 million below
that for last year. But the White
Paper points out that the in-
creases of £32 million in pay
and allowances, as well as
£5O million in higher wages and
prices and £l4 million in com-
pensation to officers and men
affected by cuts, have been
absorbed within these lower
estimates.
“For the third year running
the upward curve of defence
expenditure has been checked.
Indeed, it will be taking only
about 8 per cent, of the national
income against 12 per cent, in
1953. But the future costs of
nuclear arms and of missile-
research, development and pro-
duction have probably been
underestimated. A cautious
judgment would be that Mr.
Sandys has done well in the
easiest stage of his five-year
plan.”
The same : “At the core of
this White Paper, as of its pre-
decessor, is the calculation that
large conventional forces will
not be required for a major war.
So great is the Russian and
Chinese—strength in manpower
and conventional weapons that
it couldn’t be matched by any
peace-time effort that the Nato
Powers would tolerate or afford.
If the enemy has no reason to
doubt our determination to use
it against major aggression, then
there is no reason to believe
that he will risk sudden attack.
If he is given such a reason,
then the risk is real —but no of
conceivable effort in conven-
tional forces can eliminate it.
The giving-up of National
Service and the taking-up of
nuclear missiles are interlinked
acts.”
The same: “There are two
judgments in this White Paper
which should have a salutary
effect on public opinion.
Russia is not expected to have
‘for several years' accurate
intercontinental rockets in
numbers. Meanwhile, the
medium-range missiles to be
based in Europe will maintain
the ‘overall superiority of the
West.’ Hero Defence Minister
Sandys must expect the most
persistent and heated challenge.
For if these statements are to be
relied on, much of the strategic
and political controversy of
the months since the sputnik
was launched has been non-
sense.”
U.S. Recession
Commenting on the
American Government’s
measures to deal with the
current U.S. recession (U.S. un-
employment has increased from
4 per cent, to 6 per cent, in
six months ; Canada’s has
jumped from 3 per cent, to
6y per cent, in the same period),
London “Financial Times” con-
siders that the Eisenhower
Administration’s policies, while
tending in the right direction,
have each been applied a stage
too late:
“One of the commonest
weaknesses of economic policy
—which we have seen often
enough in Britain —is to try
to base policy-making on
certainties rather than trends.
By the time it is certain that a
recession has arrived, and it is
now quite certain in the United
States, the simple and pre-
liminary measures which would
have checked it may have
become insufficient to do so.
The Eisenhower prescription so
far is cheap money—which has
rightly been pushed very far
after much too slow a start —
the acceleration of defence
contracts and moderate in-
creases in some other sectors
Government expenditure. A


Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO LLOYD ALBERT BYRNES late of
11 William Street, Rose Bay.—TAKE
NOTICE that DOREEN FLORENCE
BYRNES has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 454 of 1957 on the ground of
desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 9th
May 1958 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from A. J. P.
HALL & HALL, Solicitors, 44 Martin
Place, Sydney.—J. D O U G H A N ,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLARENCE CHARLES LITTLE late
of Woods Road Yagoona.—TAKE
NOTICE That BARBARA DAISY
LITTLE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3283 of 1957 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street' Sydney by 9th May 1958
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from HERMAN FAWL &
NORTON, Solicitors, Hosking House,
Hosking Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGIIAN,
Registrar.
The Bulletin, March 5, 1958
more vigorous programme,
particularly through tax-cuts,
would still be desirable.”
While all measures so far
taken have been sound, they
do not, the “Financial Times”
adds, “guarantee an automatic
and quick recovery”:
“The scale of recession is
now such that steel production
is down to 55 per cent, of
capacity, as against -a danger-
level of about 75 per cent. Un-
employment rose by over one-
million in the month from mid-
December, a record for any
single month since the statistics
were first kept.
“The combined effect so far
of cuts in capital expenditure,
reduction of inventories and
fall in consumer incomes must
substantially outweigh the
benefit of any improvement in
the supply of money which
the Government measures have
so far produced. Cheap money
is not a particularly effective re-
inflationary influence, because
in a recession people a'“c not
keen to borrow.
“There are other important
factors. Consumers are buying
less partly because they now
expect lower prices, partly
because they are well stocked
up with durable goods, and
partly because of an anxiety
to conserve or improve their
own liquidity. No one wants to
spend money if his job is in
danger.
“All this does not mean that
the United States is headed for
a major long-term depression.
Very high Government expendi-
ture, on defence and —if things
get worse on relief, is one
safeguard. The soundness of
the financial structure and the
absence of any reaction from
overexpansion are also favor-
able to a recovery, at least in
time.
“Yet with other signs of
deflation in the rest of the
world no one should underrate
this recession. A quick recovery
may be achieved, but it will not
necessarily be achieved without
a much more far-reaching ex-
pansion of the national pur-
chasing power than the United
States Government has yet
agreed to adopt.”
Strontium 90
Strontium-90, the by-product
of nuclear explosions causing
so much concern because of
London “Daily Mirror”
"RIDICULOUS! THERE AIN’T NO SUCH ANIMAL!”
its ability to find its way
easily into the human bone-
structure and cause bone-
cancer, has been the subject of
much study, the latest result"
of which are the findings of
three U.S. scientists who have
spent five years investigating
Strontium-90 concentrations in
human bones.
New York “Herald Tribune”
summarises their findings thus:
“The concentration of radio-
active Strontium-90 in the
human body from nuclear
explosions rose 33 per cent,
in the year ended June 30,
1957. .
“This is still far below the
‘maximum permissible con-
centration’ as presently estab-
lished by the National Bureau
of Standards.
“The present concentration in
young children is only about
1/150th of the maximum per-
missible. However, children
under four have a concentra-
tion ten times that found in
adults aged 20 or more.
“If all bomb-tests were halted
now, the radioactive fallout
still in the atmosphere would
raise the level in young children
to 1 /35th of the maximum
permissible. If tests continue
so as to maintain the fallout
rate at the 1957 level, by a.d.
2100 the concentration for the
population will rise to |th of
the maximum permissible.”
Commenting on these find-
ings, the “Herald Tribune”
notes that “the survey repre-
sents analyses of more than
1000 human bone-samples, as
well as food and soil fgrowing
things soak up the Strontium-
-90, and cattle absorb it). World-
averages were computed by
analysing samples from 30
stations in a world-wide net-
work, including Japan, For-
mosa, India.
“What lessons are to be
learned from this? So long
as it is necessary- as it now is,
for the United States to con-
tinue tests to perfect its own
defences against Soviet missiles,
it may do so without any signi-
ficant increase in danger to
human life.
“But it is also true that every
increase in Strontium-90 is
cumulative in the earth, and in
the human bones. And the more
that is learned about the harm-
ful effects of radiation of all
kinds, the more the tendency
has been to scale-down the
estimates of what is ‘maximum
permissible concentration.’ ”
“It is now believed by many
scientists that evefy increase in
Strontium-90 will cause some
increase in bone-cancer. There-
fore, it is all the more impera-
tive that the Soviets, instead of
constantly reiterating their
demands for ‘stopping tests,’
join the President in his pro-
posal not only to stop tests
but to stop all future manu-
facture of nuclear weapons.
(If this is not done, more and
more nations will soon be test-
ing.) Ironically enough,
Strontium-90 concentration is
probably higher in the Soviet
Union than elsewhere, because
of closer proximity of the
population to testing-sites.
“In sum, the human race still
has time left to avoid poison-
ing itself irretrievably. But each
year the time grows shorter.”
Various Voices
Lord Home: “It is not the
capitalist West which is crack-
ing but Communism’s hold on
the minds of men within its
own Empire. Tine most signifi-
cant event of the last 50 years
was the revelation in Hungary
and in Poland that tyranny
cannot destroy freedom. Those
who led the revolt were the
young men and women. Those
who had been indoctrinated as
the Communist leaders of
tomorrow were in fact the
champions of liberty against
the Communist tyranny. Within
Russia itself technical education
is destroying the walls of the
prison in which the younger
generation of Russians can no
longer be confined.”
Britain’s Chancellor of the
Exchequer, D. Heath coat
Amory: “We [Great Britain]
want to be able to rely on our
pound as a measure of value
just as we do our yard as a
measure of length, something
that will mean the same, and
buy the same, next year and the
year after as it does this. We
want a shrinkproof pound.
Some people find it difficult to
understand why the answer to
inflation is not simply
maximum production regard-
less of any other consideration.
I wish the answer were as
simple as that. We cannot
spend ourselves out of inflation
in that way.”
Lord Hailsham: “Inter-
dependence is a fact, not a
policy ; a fact which must be
recognised, not ignored ; but a
fact which can be reconciled
with national pride and cul-
tural tradition, and is it not
equally plain that sovereignty,
if it means complete freedom
to make war and peace, is in
the end productive of war and
not of peace?”


mmm
mom.
NEW TWIN TREAD j
OVER T|
MIRACLE 3«T CORD
£im morem’/m
I
m
m
DOUBLES ROAD GRIP
Start surer . . . stop quicker . . . run further!
With the amazing NEW Twin Tread, thousands of extra traction
edges give a new kind of sureness and safety, a new experience
in comfortable running and a big increase in mileage. The tyre
body constructed from miracle 3*T cord, which is triple-tempered
CREATES MILEAGE RECORDS
by Goodyear's exclusive process, gives
added strength, increases bruise resistance and makes a big contribu-
tion to cooler running and longer wearing at no extra cost. And so
quiet... this unique tread design suppresses road hum and reduces
curve squeal.
MODERN TYRE FOR MODERN MOTORING
Bring your
car up-to-date
with
/
6
Super/cushion
by good/Vear
PI27S


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the Britxeh Colony of Bong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £19,800,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BWBI3I (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Problem Parents
The main propounder of the
“no-problem-children” theory
in Australia is a man who
should know —Pat Loftus, who
spent a lifetime in the Victorian
police-force studying and
countering juvenile crime. On
retirement he continues his
active interest in the welfare of
adolescents and those approach-
ing adolescence. He still
believes he has never met the
delinquent child, but has come
in contact with many delin-
quent parents. Furthermore, he
has never met a constantly
offending juvenile who came
from a home in which there
was clear evidence of mutual
affection and respect between
the parents.
Pat Loftus is quite unequi-
vocal about this. He will
extend the orbit to include all
kinds of adult associations.
Even the de facto couple rear-
ing a child in a state of what
our society describes as “sin”
are good parents if those bonds
of love and respect are evident.
Loftus opines that this love and
respect provides a foundation
of security that has nothing to
do with worldly possessions or
social position.
The next important factor
affecting a child’s social be-
havior is that of example. A
child who sees repeatedly his
parents attempting to beat the
law by bilking the tax-collector,
breaking the traffic-laws or
even parking illegally must
provide a fertile field for seeds
of disregard and disrespect for
the bigger and more important
laws governing social behavior.
Thus the successful tax-return
juggler and rear-vision-mirror
speedster having led, in their
own opinion, a law-abiding
existence are horrified when
their own sons break the more
important social codes.
The trouble with Pat Loftus’s
arguments with the majority of
parents is that they carry no
dramatic psychological message,
and there are no Freudian
theories to titillate the half-
baked theorists. His beliefs are
too reminiscent of the sound
principles that guided our
parents’ marriages clear of
divorce courts. H. F. B.
(Vic.).
Agriculture and Industry
“H.A.F.’s” statement that
“Agriculture gives prosperity
to the few and misery to the
many” (B. 22 /1 / ’5B) is a rather
sweeping generality.
Agricultural prosperity is
“Yon's the school, laddie, wheer I were eddicated.”
determined by a number of
factors —form of land-tenure,
character of soil, skill of the
husbandman and the amount of
capital at his disposal, accessi-
bility to markets, effect of
taxation-policy, and so forth.
As these factors have differed
in various countries, and even
in regions of a particular
country, so has agricultural
prosperity fluctuated. It has
never been true to say, however,
that agriculture, by its very
nature, enables only a few to
live well.
Nor does industry automati-
cally bring economic well-being.
Factory-workers in many of
today’s more advanced indus-
trial communities enjoy high
living-standards, but this has
not always been the case. Until
after World War I most
factory-workers lived poorly in
mean houses or tenements in
drab urban areas. Many still
do, even in parts of U.S.A. They
also generally worked long
hours. Country-dwellers in the
more advanced agricultural
communities usually fared
better, both as regards accom-
modation and environment.
The life of farmers and
cottagers in the late 19th-
century England, for instance,
compared favorably with that
of the dwellers in a grim British
industrial centre of the same
period. The English farm-
worker of today is well paid
and, for the most part, enjoys
the amenities available to the
urban worker.
Where factory-workers in the
past had higher living-standards
than countrymen it was mainly
because they enjoyed an eco-
nomically privileged position.
Since the mid-19th-century, that
has been the situation in the
U.S.A., where there has been
a highly protected home-market
and a big farming population
to provide consumers. Even
today American manufacturers
rely mainly on the home-
market.
Until after World War I
American farmers received no
real protection. Their produce
sold at world prices, but they
had to buy farm-equipment and
consumer - goods alike at
internal prices. The large
amount of free land available
for settlement, right down to
the end of the 19th century,
and the individualistic nature
of many Americans, bred in the
pioneer tradition which caused
them to prefer farming their
own land to working in some-
one else’s factory, kept a sub-
stantial proportion of the popu-
lation employed in agriculture.
In a wisely-ordered society
agriculture and the secondary
industries are complementary
—each will nourish the other.
Agriculture at a stretch, how-
ever, can flourish without fac-
tories, but not factories with-
out agriculture. The latter
supplies a wide range of raw
materials to the secondary
industries, as well as the food
needed by industrial workers.
A society in which agricul-
ture fails to give a comparable
living to that provided by manu-
facturing, commerce and the
professions will eventually face
economic disaster. —Farinmail
(N.S.W.).
Aid for Indonesia
On his return from a visit
to Indonesia Sir Richard Boyer
talked idealistically about the
benefits that would accrue to
Australia if English replaced
Dutch as the official language
in Indonesia. Any benefits that
would follow such a change
would be wholly for the
Indonesian people, since it
would give them an insight into
our way of life that they do
not now possess and increase
their determination to spread
their influence, which is even
now largely dominated by
Communist thinking, into Aus-
tralia.
A few years ago, when Aus-
tralia decided to join the
Colombo plan, a great deal of


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
nonsense was talked about the
goodwill we would gain from
our altruistic efforts to lift the
standard of living in under-
developed countries. It was for
the same reason that we opened
the doors of our universities
to Asian students; and we
nearly went so far recently as
to invite a number of Indo-
nesian officers here to examine
and become proficient in our
methods of military training.
Exactly what goodwill do we
enjoy in South-east Asia to-
day? Probably no more than
if we had never made such
gestures. It would undoubtedly
be a good thing to raise the
living-standards of under-
nourished countries if there
were not the grave risk that
sooner or later all such
countries will fall under Com-
munist influence ; and to the
extent that we impoverish our-
selves now in building them up
so, so will we lighten the
Communist task later on.
We simply delude ourselves
if we think Asian peoples look
upon our offers of help as
springing from our goodness of
heart and our anxiety that they
also should share in the good
things of life. Communism is
teaching them that our gestures
are merely made with the idea
of keeping them satisfied in
their own countries as long as
possible so that we might be
allowed to enjoy, indefinitely,
our own higher standards in
our own countries.
Most of us recall that
before World War II we were
exhorted not to say anything
that might upset our relations
with Germany; and even in
recent months we have been
told that a trade treaty with
Japan will increase the bonds
of friendship with that country
and help to wipe cut the ugly
past. This is all sheer idealistic
nonsense. Nations trade with
each other not for goodwill
reasons but because trade is an
economic necessity. Even in
our everyday life we buy
goods from stores not because
we like the proprietor but
because he sells what we
require at the prices that suit
us. He takes our money for
the same economic reasons. —
Peter Simple (N.S.W.).
Magazines—Then & Now
Turning out an old port., I
found a letter dated December
15, 1944, and it makes my
money-hungry soul feel more
starved than ever.
“In accordance with our
usual practice,” begins the
letter, “we have allocated a
proportion of our profits to
our contributors’ account. In
this consideration we have
much pleasure in enclosing
herewith our bonus cheque in
the sum of ten pounds in
appreciation of your co-opera-
tion during the past 12
months ”
The magazine concerned was
only a small one (“Quiz”), run
by the violently energetic,
happy-go-lucky Alan Gardner,
edited by cartoonist George
Little, whose art-work in those
days held the spotlight firmly
on roosters chasing hens, bulls
speaking of cows, and farmers
leaning over sties discussing
sows. Imagine the feelings,
though, of a freelance receiving
a bonus of a tenner! Fourteen
years ago that sum of money
was really something, and all
I did for that magazine was a
short yarn and a bit of verse
per month.
One modern contrast (there
are dozens) to this generous
treatment of the humble local
writer came from a large Syd-
ney magazine last week. I had
asked if they bought Westerns,
They said, “Yes, but we're more
interested in shorter ones at the
moment; could you let us see
some?”
I trotted out four of about
5000 words each and, in a week,
called at the office for the
verdict. All stories were handed
back with a casual, “Sorry, they
didn’t make the grade.” I said,
“Could you tell me what was
wrong with them?”
The answer? A breezy, “Oh,
there was nothing actually
wrong with themE It’s only
that they weie no better than
what we can get from America
tree ’
Apart from wondering why
they’d expect an Aussie writer
ever to turn out anything
“better” than the home-grown
American Western, it struck
me as a pity that, in preference
to grabbing their material
“free,” they didn’t support us
local mugs by paying us a small
amount to turn out the
admittedly “just-as-good” stuff.
As for expecting a bonus
from such a place! Eve
Merritt (N.S.W.).
Universities
“Invictus” (B 15/1/ ’5B)
seems a little mixed A um-
versity is not a school nor are
lecturers kindergarten-teachers
Attendance at school is corn-
pulsory. Attendance at the
university should be voluntary.
The lecturer, an expert in his
field, assumes that the student,
attending of his own volition to
receive the benefits of other
peoples’ voluntary research,
wants to learn. If he did not
he would not be there. There-
fore no one is going to force
the student to learn. If he is
inattentive, unpunctual or un-
satisfactory, that’s his concern.
Part of the trouble is that
rnany students, reared on to-
day’s playways and easygoing
methods, just can’t take the
university lectures.— Getting
(S-A.).
Migrants
j agree w { t h B M ” (B
1 2 /2/’5B) that southern Euro-
peans who have migrated to this
country have helped to develop
the sugar-cane, fruitgrowing
and market-gardening areas,
But these are already well-
populated districts and form but
a comparatively small portion
of our primary - producing
areas.
Rarely do you find these
people venturing out into the


wide spaces beyond. They are
nor of pioneer-stock as we
know it, and it seems they
cannot exist with just their own
company in the more isolated
areas.
Might we not hope for more
expansion in these wider fields
from the British migrants. They
are descendants (as we are) of
those men and women who first
pioneering spirit will reassert
tinent, and perhaps the dormant
pioneering spirit will re-assert
it Se lf. M- M. F. (N.S.W.).
Smoking on Trial
a ,
While the big tobacco com-
btnes continue to make large
and mounting profits, talking
airily the while in pseudo-
scientific jargon about the
absence of relationship between
smoking and lung-cancer, they
cannot hide their concern at
the pending campaigns to make
smoking unpopular and un-
fashionable among young
people.
The real danger ■" smoking
may well be its undoubted effect
on blood-pressure and cardiac
diseases, although the side-issue
of lung-cancer can’t be ignored.
The need is not to discourage
hardened smokers, whose
arteries are probably hardened
enough, anyway, and who are
not likely to give up now, but
to place the real stupidity of
smoking, which is only a more
adult form of thumb-sucking
after all, before youngsters. If
they can be convinced that it
is neither smart nor particularly
pleasant to smoke, and that the
financial and health advantages
in not starting are immense and
lifelong, then the real battle
have been won.
If i s interesting to see that the
Federal Trade Commission in
the U.S. is trying to end what
it rightly terms the public con-
fusion arising from the widely-
varying tests conducted by
manufacturers and private
laboratories, and to get the
makers to agree on a uniform
method for testing tar and
nicotine in cigarettes. It will
be in(ormatjve to see what
success achieved . After all
the manufacturers don't like the
idea of impend,.,,, test ing of
their and whjle they
p reparedj Q n a pretty
r F s F cal to finance some
s ra , research th are nol
, assist full . scale investi .
tu J, of the iUs which are
* ow wide|y to be
usually—although not invari-
b| ± due to prolonged
' k ; „ _ Well . CURED
(n $ \y )
' ' '
... ,
Competitions for Plays
It’s good news that General
Motors-Holdens are sponsoring
another competition for Aus-
tralian plays this season, with a
first prize of £3OO and, what is
far more important, the Aus-
tralian Elizabethan Theatre
Trust will arrange to stage the
winning entry.
Only too often in the past,
prizes have been awarded to
plays because of something
regarded by the judges as
“literary quality,” but the win-
ning entry has proved to be
impossible to produce. The
only test of a play is the
reaction of an audience to it
when it is produced by a cast of
competent players.
Further, only few people
have ever been able to judge
the worth of a play by reading
the script, but—unfortunately
—thousands of people have
suffered from the delusion that
they have this ability. That is
why so many record-breakers,
such as “Charley’s Aunt,” were
hawked around for years before
somebody at last tried them
out on an audience.
It is to be hoped that in this
competition the final judging is
done by having what seem to
be the best entries read aloud
by people with some acting
ability, with the judges listen-
jng-in.
Further, one rule of the
G.M.-H. competition states that
entries “must not have been
previously presented on a
public stage.” It would be as
well to clarify this by stating
that there can be no objection
to having a cast read the lines
before a small private audience,
to detect any flat patches.
p. G. Wodehouse, who has
had a long experience of writ-
ing for stage, summed-up this
point when he said: “Plays are
not written so much as re-
written.” The only way to
do this is to hear people acting
the parts. No amount of read-
mg the lines aloud on the part
of the playwright, or putting
them on a tape-recorder and
playing them back, can enable
one to tell if any lines will get
across to an audience, or fall
flat,
Anyone, trying to find really
good Australian plays should
not look upon a competition as
some counterpart of a> public
examination in which the
authors are thrown upon their
own resources entirely, but as a
search for talent, with as much
help as possible given or
allowed in what is undoubtedly
the most difficult of all forms
of writing.— Archaen (S.A.).
'
A , ,
AMangled Messiah
I h a< f some difficulty digest-
ing Mr. Nicholls’s counter-
article on A Mangled
‘Messiah (B. 26/2/ 58), so I
asked my authority, Dr. Robert
Dalley-Scarlett, for a few
pertinent facts. Here s his
letter:
“Mr. Nicholls states that
Arnold’s edition Was ‘full of
errors not corrected until
Prout’s arrangement of 1902.’
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 476
Across
I—Expressed extreme disapproval of the sound of who
is against Edward. (6)
4 —Parent republican tricking one article girl’s (8)
B—The8 —The old man to hoodwink an Irish boy. (7)
10—France’s answer to 8-across is to strike against the grain
pop jiffy. (7)
12—The first lady. (3)
13— Any sucker strikes the circle
trisector. (5)
14— Freshly scrutinise dearer changes.
(6)
16—State of the wearisome boy notes
acknowledging debt to a
promontory. (11)
19— Pronoun. (3)
20 — So possessively a distress signal.
(3)
21 — A savoury 4-across (or 8-across,
or 10-across, or 13-across) who
keeps mum. (6, 5)
24 —All the same people again
belonging to Mr. Menzies’ wife.
(7)
26 —Sustenance for horse banter. (5)
28 — European range makes one write
figures. (9)
29 — A famous coloratura who is not
strictly one of 24-across. (5)
30 — European nose ain’t broken. (8)
3.1—1 n 1-across, Ted is replaced by an
American poet bird of the same
country. (6)
Down
1 — It is certainly 8-across, possibly
10-across or 13-across, but cer-
tainly not 4-across liver trouble.
(9)
2 Marine creatures which introduce
a military leader to the highest
poetry. (9)
3 A regulation cited in error. (5)
5 Talk defamatorily of an Irish
snake. (7)
6 Land one on the chin. (5)
7 The top monkey kiss. (4)
9 —Kay has a look at a noted
British admiral. (5)
11 —Airborne vaudeville arrives.
(5,2)
15 —Blind dog what made Roy Rene
bilious? It’s a dinner wagon.
(10)
17— Boy carrying a steer university
man. (7)
18 — Negative weight turned up. (3)
19— Pets, for instance, are marching
unconformably. (3, 2,4)
22 — This makes a girl land between
the South and North, North
America coming later. (7)
23 XS. (6)
24 — Implement for smoothing any
timber tree. (5)
25 — Negotiate with a party. (5)
27—Professional of a sedative. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 475


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LYDIA MARTHA SIENNICKI late
of 5 Albert Street Cabramatta New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that JAN
SIENNICKI has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2917 of 1957 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 2oth day of
April 1958 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from ANTHONY
MARKHAM & BAYNE GEIKIE, Soli-
citors, of “Warwick House,” George
Street, Liverpool, or their Sydney
Agents. HILLIARD & BERRY, Soli-
citors, 17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—•
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
/ ’
i
iiiii
sss
««?
m
Cane-ite Acousti-tile in foyer of Interstate Display Service, Adelaide.
Cane-ite Acousti-tile
brings quiet to an office
Interstate Display Service of Adelaide have used Cane-
ite Acousti-tile throughout their new offices and show-
rooms to create a noiseless background—visually and
acoustically—for their merchandise.
Cane-ite Acousti-tile cuts up to 65% of harmful
noise especially reverberating noise that jangles
nerves and disturbs concentration.
Why not discuss the benefits your business or home
would get from this inexpensive acoustical treatment
with your nearest C.S.R. showroom.
c
r^CANE-ITE
Jkoustitile
A product of THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Building Materials Division
Showrooms at Sydney, Newcastle, Wagga, Wollongong, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Townsville, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
CSR7D
“They call this Windy Gully.”
I have a photostat of the whole
of Handel’s original MSS. and,
by comparison with the Arnold
score, I cannot find the multi-
plicity of errors suggested;
Arnold is quite faithful to the
original.
“Why does your correspon-
dent say that the raison d’etre
of newly instituted perform-
ances .... is at least question-
able? What’s questionable
about them? What your corres-
pondent calls ‘Arnold’s’
orchestration is Handel’s own.
“He seems to suggest that
Handel’s audiences were very
small, but the Fishamble Street
Music Hall, where the first
performance of ‘Messiah’ was
heard, seated 600, and the
Foundling Chapel, where the
work was performed on many
occasions, 1000 people. Covent
Garden Theatre, the scene of
most of Handel’s performances,
certainly seated far more than
suggested.
“I cannot accept as an
‘admirable compromise’ the
suggestion of the use of the
Mozart or Prout scores, for (a)
according to Mr. Nicholls the
Mozart score must have been
full of those errors not
corrected till 1902; and ( b )
Prout, in the preface to his
edition, naively states that ‘no
attempt has been made to pre-
serve his (Handel’s) orches-
tral coloring.’ What would be
thought of an edition of, say,
Mozart or Beethoven, in whiqh
‘no attempt had been made to
preserve the composer’s color-
ing’?
“Mr. R. A. Streatfeild, in
his book on Handel, comments
on the Mozart additions as
follows: \. . seems to have
totally misapprehended
Handel’s meaning... .Mozart’s
wind parts, so beautiful in
themselves and so utterly in-
appropriate to the subject, do
not suggest darkness at all
whereas Handel’s unison
passages for strings and
bassoons give a picture of a
people groping its way through
the blackness of night to which
music affords no parallel for
force and intensity.’ ‘For unto
us': ‘Here again those who
have only heard it caricatured
in Mozart’s version know noth-
ing of Handel’s real meaning.’
“In regard to ‘Glory to God’
Mr. Streatfeild writes: ‘Mozart’s
treatment of Handel’s orches-
tration in this chorus is so in-
credible as to raise a serious
doubt whether the accompani-
ments traditionally ascribed to
him can possibly be by his
hand.’ Then the matter is dis-
cussed in detail.
“Mr. Nicholls might care to
mention some of the move-
ments by Sullivan which ‘ex-
perts regard as indistinguishable
from the real thing.’
“When Mozart, for instance,
writes a movement for strings
only, we respect his intentions
and play it that way. But if it
be in order for Mozart to add
other instruments to Handel’s
carefully planned scores, may
we not do the same thing to
Mozart’s own music?
“On what authority does Mr.
Nicholls say that ‘Poor Mozart
is considered entirely ignorant
of the counterpoint which is a
compulsory achievement of
any music student in a worth-
while music school’?
“I would recommend Mr.
Nicholls to read authorities
such as Professor R. A. Streat-
feild, Professor Percy Young,
Professor Manson Myers (the
American authority) and the
writings of Bernard Shaw on
the subject, which are just as
valid today as when he wrote
them. The books by Newman
Flower and Herbert Weinstock
could also cause him to alter
his present opinion.
“I have lived with the work
of Handel for 45 years and as
yet I see no reason, not even on
the authority of Sir Edward
Bairstow, to change my views.”
—Adrian Wintle (N.S.W.).
Driving-licences
“Dix” (B. 19/2/’5B) doubts
that any Australian trans-
port department would issue
a learner’s permit to a
deaf-and-dumb man. A friend
of mine, born deaf-and-dumb,
has a driver’s licence and has
been driving daily around
Newcastle for the last 10
years.—G. B. R. (N.S.W.).


PROOF
100% Australian*
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHT’S
ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NETTING
FENCING WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
sswssh
mi
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
LYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Biaekwall Ft. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
SOIL-EROSION
FOR a change, let’s look
beyond the boundaries of
our own properties, and well
beyond the span of our own
lives. Consider the soil-erosion
that is happening right now on
* . , ■ v-
your property and mine You
are probably most indignant
about this accusation. You
The mulesing of
lambs should be
carried out when they
are weaned. The
operation is per-
formed only once in
the lifetime of a
sheep and when it is
allied with correct
tail length and an
annual crutching will
give almost complete
protection from fly
strike. An added
protective measure is
to use Elastrator
Rubber Rings when
the lamb is marked
and tailed. This is a
bloodless system
avoiding open
wounds, the chief
attraction for flies.
don’t believe you have an
erosion problem.
Or you admit that there has
been some erosion—maybe
there still is—but you are sure
that, with guidance, you will
have it under control. Possibly
you have been encouraged to
think this way with the help of
soil-scientists, engineers and
writers, both political and
romantic. Soil - erosion can
be halted, they have said.
Nonsense.
The steady dissolution of
the continents into the sea
has been going on for around
2000 million years. No
scientist, engineer or bureau-
crat is likely to stop it much.
So when the next storm washes
or blows away the finest, most
fertile portion of your topsoil,
take heart. History is merely
repeating itself.
You can slow down the pro-
cess, of course. You can make
the loss imperceptible within
your own life-span.
After that, why worry? New
scientific aids will probably
come to the rescue of your
children’s children, so that
even when all the topsoil has
taken its natural course sea-
ward they may still grow a
six-bag crop on the bare rock
that remains.
The escapable tragedy is
simply this: most of us have
a cockeyed idea about soil-
erosion. First of all we must
understand the immense
natural forces we are attempt-
ing to arrest. Then, perhaps,
we can do a little to slow the
processes down.
The land first experienced
severe sheet-erosion some 2000
million years ago, shortly after
the molten gases of the early
planet had formed their hard
outside crust of granite and
basalt.
At that time the sea was a
vapor, surrounding the com-
pletely dry, sealess land just
as the air envelopes it today.
However, as soon as the earth
had cooled enough the water-
vapor condensed, and the
greatest rains of all time began.
For hundreds of years, without
stopping, the rain fell merci-
lessly on the naked land. A
process of dissolution set in.
It has never stopped. No
evidence exists to show that it
ever will.
Your farm and mine are part
of the process. Even if actual
particles of soil are not carried
out to sea from our land, the
rain that falls is steadily
leaching out the minerals from
our soil and rocks to add to
the salt of the sea.
In those early days of our
planet, after the rain from the
condensing vapor stopped, the
eroded land sloAvly acquired its
mantle of plant-life. Soil,
formed from the crumbling
rocks, was trapped in a fine
mesh of primitive roots.
And so, layer on layer of
spongey soil was built up. Life
on the land at that time was
limited chiefly to plants. But
in the encircling seas a
“higher” form of life was
developing: the forms that
were to emerge from the sea
and plunder the protective
vegetation.
Now, when you or I clear a
patch of scrub, burn-off a
stubble or plough in a sward,
we are history repeating itself
—aided by 50,000 years of
acquired cunning. Wherever
soil has been laid bare, whether
through dinosaurs overgrazing
or man farming, the soil has
been hastened in its natural
process of erosion.
Actually, for a few million
years, in Earth’s early history,
things were pretty stable. Man’s
50,000 years of rapid develop-
ment ended that era, however.
Forget the obvious ravages of
cultivation. Disaster can be
more subtle, as in the random
example of Trinidad ...
Once the island of Trinidad
in the Atlantic supported mag-
nificent stands of timber. Then,
about the year 1700 an
astronomer called Halley paid
a fateful visit and casually put
ashore a few goats.
Within a century they had
stripped the trees, killed them,
and ended' all further growth.
Today Trinidad’s slopes are
strewn with dead trees. And,
with no roots for an anchor,
her soft volcanic soils are
slipping relentlessly into the
waiting sea. Similar stories
can be told of many lands.
Think bow close to disaster
we have come through the
rabbit. Ask how long the
temporary assistance of myxo-
matosis can be expected to
last. And even if every sheep
is taken from the tops of the
Snowy Mountains the natural
erosion of those delicately
balanced soils will continue as
long as rain falls.
The seas are rising. The
waters are lapping more
hungrily around our seashores.
This is not surprising, taking
into account the countless
millions of tons of silt con-
tinually being added to its
volume. In the deeper waters


ROYAL JELLY
Direct from the bees. Fabulously
rich vitalising dietary supplement.
One month’s supply, in capsules,
£5/5/-, or mixed in 6 ounces of
honey, £5. Technical data 2/9»
Free Leaflet.
R. A. PEACOCK
Apiarist, 21 Carbine Street,
KERANG. VICTORIA.
Farmers in all States are
planting
RUSSIAN COMFREY
Giant Symphytum Peregrinum
The 100-tons-an-acre perennial fodder
with a high food value and exclusive
medicinal properties for all livestock and
poultry (food and medicine for man
also !). Experience demonstrates a saving
of 2-2 J cwt. food on each pig up to
six months. Low fibre content and the
highest protein of the world’s fodders
(protein higher than Soya bean has been
obtained in England). Can be mechani-
cally harvested. Has no disagreeable
features. .Drought, frost or flood will
not kill it. Outlasts other fodders by
producing for more than 20 years with-
out deteriorating. Can be killed if de-
sired but does not get out of control.
No kaown insect pests. Rabbits will not
touch it. Propagation incredibly easy.
Large Root offsets 30/- dozen, £5/10/-
60, £lO per 100. Crown offsets
(quicker to start) £3 per dozen, £ll
for 50, £2O per 100. Post free. Air-
mail post 2/6 in each £1 extra. Larger
lots at greatly reduced prices. Whole-
sale rates for merchants.
Send stamped, addressed envelope for
booklet to the farm that discovered
comfrey’s amazing growth in Australia
by witnessed weighing tests in 1955.
The first to advertise Russian Comfrey,
the first to bring it to the attention of
Australian farmers. An interest is
taken in your growing problems by
W. F. SAVAGE,
Green Farm, Red Hill South,
VICTORIA.
of the oceans where there is
no day, no night and no
seasons, a constant silt falls
silently, gently, eternally.
It has gone on for hundreds
of millions of years. It will
continue so long as there is a
speck of land protruding from
the ocean.
This is the silt from rivers,
the dust blown out to sea, the
rubble from melting icebergs,
the remains of marine animals.
In places it is 12,000 ft. thick
on the ocean bed. It is the
natural transfer of wealth from
the land to the sea. A cubic
mile of sea holds about 166
million tons of dissolved salts.
Australia, in a mere 150 years,
has contributed most gener-
ously . . .
Luckily we need not become
too upset about all this. We
are the most adaptable of
creatures ever to lose gills. We
can minimise the natural pro-
cess of soil-erosion. We can
learn to live with it, in spite
of it; just as we have learned
to live with the “cold war”
and the “road toll,” so we have
already grown used to living
with “this erosion.”
Our children’s children,
having doubled the population
of the world, will have to learn
to eat seaweed, plankton and
synthetic food. Genuine
“Farm” food in attractive
packages will probably be
available for the privileged
classes or offered as radio-quiz
prizes.
But we are not quite ready
for this Utopia. So for a while
yet it will pay to arrest soil-
erosion to the utmost.
Here’s what we can do. We
can resist the temptation to
overgraze. We can stop
cropping our steeper land, and,
instead, sow it to improved-
pasture, preferably with
contour-furrows.
On the land we crop we can
plough contour-banks and con-
struct grassed waterways lead-
ing to dams. We can subsoil
with chisel - ploughs and
encourage seepage away from
hollows out to the ridges. If
we grow cereals we can widen
our rotation and spell the land
under sown pasture between
crops. We can work our land
on the contour. We can sow
alternate strips of different
crops on the contour.
We can aim at keeping the
ground covered for most of
the time, especially if wind-
erosion is our worry.
When the ground has to be
left bare we can see that it is
left as cloddy as possible. And
we can work our implements
at the slower speeds that the
clever conservationists recom-
mend.
We can learn to regard the
land not as dirt but as a
“Now We’ve got it , how’ll we cook it?”
precious gift of creation, not
ours alone, not even the
property of mere mankind. We
can come to think of it as the
temporary refuge of all
creatures living upon it, inside
it and above it.
Ours is a planet mostly
covered with water. The sea
holds the remote beginnings of
life. It receives that life in
the end. For a brief moment
in the history of this planet
mankind has achieved mastery
over the smaller land portion
that shows through the sea’s
surface. You and I are the
custodians of the top few
inches. We may not have them
long, these precious few inches.
P. H. R.
Dairying
“P.C.M.”: “Cocky” (B.
12/2/’5B) is wide of the mark
in saying “most dairyfarmers
are mixed farmers.” The real
professional dairyfarmer in Vic-
toria is the man who milks from
30 to 100 or more cows and
devotes his time to dairying
pure and simple (even separa-
ting and pig-raising is largely a
thing of the past) closely aided
by dairy supervisors, bacteri-
ologists, and other specialists.
There are mixed farmers who
milk a few cows, say six to 14,
as a sideline, but they cannot
be classed as dairyfarmers.
Speaking as a factory tester and
grader for the past 35 years,
I class them as inefficient
nuisances, and often an abso-
lute curse to the industry. In
Victoria they are bad enough ;
in N.S.W. and S.A., where
supervision is inefficient, and, in
some districts, practically non-
existent, the conditions are
frightful.
The importance of Victorian
dairying is shown by the fact
that the largest milk company
in Sydney has been collecting
milk from Victorian farms for
seven years, while mixed
farmers in the Riverina milking
a few cows are sending low-
grade cream to Victorian fac-
tories along the Murray. I
have visited Riverina farms
where a few poor-quality,
badly fed cows are milked
under filthy conditions. Takfe
the case of a sheepfarmer, with
eight cows producing 1001 b.
butterfat each ; then, 20 miles
away, a Victorian dairyfarmer
milking 90 cows averaging
2851 b. butterfat each, in a
modern dairy costing about
£2500. If you add three cows
to the professional dairy-
farmer’s herd, and delicense
the mixed cocky (and I would
also like to burn down his filthy
shed) you increase the butterfat
production by, say, 401 b. (allow-
ing a few pounds) and improve
the quality of food for human
consumption.
I know one company in
S.A. which collects cream from
sheepfarmers whose premises
are not under Government
supervision. There is no
grading, and all the cream,
plus the cow-manure from dirty
floors and buckets, is made into
one inferior grade of butter for
local consumption.
No, “Cocky,” these types are
not dairyfarmers at all. We in
the industry regard them as
absolute nuisances, and we
look to the large, modern, effi-
cient professional dairyfarmer
for our supplies of good milk
and cream.
The fact that Sydney by-
passes the N.S.W. mixed farmer
and comes running into Vic-
toria when it is short of milk
proves my point.
Some years ago I was with a
firm sending 2000 gallons of
milk from Shepparton, 130
miles from the border, to
Sydney, and at the same time
I was getting truckloads of
cream and making it
up into third-grade pastry-
butter.
From Victoria
Re John Foster’s remarks
(B. 12/2/’5B), under the head-
ing “Word from Tasmania.”
As a retired man with a life-
time’s experience in the breed-
ing of fine-wool Merinos, may
I say that I do not think I have
ever read such an amount of


THE ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
(
28th March—Bth April, 1958
Don’t migs the greatest spectacle of
the year. At the 1958 Royal Easter
Show you will see our finest
stock on parade, cattle judging,
wood chopping, primary and
secondary industry exhibits and a
featHre-packed programme of
special ring events, including
trotting.
Come to the 1958 Royal Easter
Show at the Showground, Sydney.
10 DAYS—B NIGHTS
valuable information on fine-
wool sheep contained in such
a few lines?
In one paragraph John
Foster mentions that pure
Saxon Merinos have a useful
life of 10 to 12 years. This is
quite correct, although it is not
generally known. But I have
often heard breeders of some
strains of Merinos say that
after five years their sheep
deteriorate so much that it pays
to get rid of them at that age.
My advice to the young
breeder is this: if his sheep
are growing a payable fleece to
the age of 10 years, then he
need only rear a little over
100 lambs for 1000 of his flock
to keep his numbers at full
strength; whereas if he has
to renew every five years he
must rear double that number
of lambs —a big consideration
these days, when foxes are
bad, and remembering that the
more of the lighter-cutting
ewes, lambs and weaners he
keeps, the less of the heavier-
cutting ages he can keep.
Touching John Foster’s
remarks on trees and shrubs—
by and large, if the sheepman
preserves, or plants, plenty of
pines, eucalypts and kurrajongs
he won’t go far wrong; but
don’t plant sugargums. At
certain times of the year these
become poisonous, as I know
to my cost.
R. F. Dancocks,
Australian
Agricultural Council
Some points brought out at
the recent meeting of the Aus-
tralian Agricultural Council in
Canberra:
Total farm-income for the
year is estimated at £370
million, the lowest for some
year's.
Wool is expected to yield
1463 million lb. greasy, or 6\
per cent, below the 1956-57
yield of 1565 million lb. Prices
for wool during the first six
months of 1957-58 were 11.1
per cent, below prices ruling
for the first six months of
1956-57. However, recent
prices have shown an upward
trend of about 5 per cent,
above the December level.
Deliveries of wheat from
the 1957 season are only about
80-million bushels, and exports,
at 50-million bushels, will be
about half normal. About 20-
million bushels will need to be
transferred to N. S. Wales
and Queensland to relieve
deficiencies. Wheat freights
overseas have fallen by as
much as ss. per bushel, and
this will help the ultimate
returns to farmers in this year
of small crops. It is not con-
sidered that there would have
been any difficulty in market-
ing a normal export-crop had
it been available.
Meat-production has fallen,
and it is estimated that the
export of carcass-meat will be
17 per cent., and canned meat
9 per cent., below last year’s
exports. Bounty payments
made by the U.K. Govern-
ment uhder the Fifteen-Year
Meat Agreement amounted to
£A6,000,000 for 1956-57 ; the
greater part of this payment
goes to the Queensland cattle-
industry.
Total milk-production for
1957-58 is expected to be about
1270-million gallons, compared
with 1362-million gallons last
year ; Victoria’s production is
about 45 per cent, of the total.
Overseas market prospects are
not good, and the current U.K.
price for butter is at the low
level of 2385. sterling per cwt.
Although the traditional
U.K. market for export eggs-
in-shell is now negligible,
additional markets have been
found in Western Germany,
Austria, Italy, Malta, Trinidad
and Venezuela. The outlook
is considerably better than it
was a year ago.
Barley exports are expected
to be some eight - million
bushels compared with 28-
million bushels last year. Sugar
exports for the 1957 season
reach the record figure of
767,000 tons, worth about
£A3S million. Export pros-
pects for the fruit industries
are reasonably bright, although
the market for canned fruit is
expected to continue to be
highly competitive.
The sales of United States
surplus farm - produce at
bargain prices continue to
depress world trade in com-
modities in which Australia is
particularly interested. Exports
from the U.S. increased by 20
per cent, during 1957, while
imports rose only slightly.
Added to this has been a
slackening of the rate of
industrial development in Wes-
tern Europe, North America
and Japan. These factors have
forced a decline in world
prices.
Decisions on the more
important items of the agenda
were, briefly:
The current five-year Wheat
Stabilisation Plan expires with
the marketing of the 1957-58
crop. The Commonwealth
Minister for Primary Industry
(W. McMahon) has initiated
discussions on a new plan
which will be discussed by the
council next June or July. In
formulating the plan the
Minister was asked to give
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(20/2/'58)
Heavy rain and flooding is indicated on the Queens-
land north coast and Peninsula during March, and these
rains may be associated with a cyclone crossing the Peninsula.
Moderate to good rains are likely elsewhere in Queensland
during March, although the west and far south-west may
get only poor rainfall.
In view of the fact that sunspot activity is increasing,
better rains may be expected in N.S.W. during March than
previously indicated. Heavy falls should occur on the
coastal areas during April, and these rains may be associated
with cyclonic activity. General rains should occur in June.
Rainfall will probably be light in Victoria during
March, and April should be a dry month. Good general
rains should commence in June, and a good season should
follow in the southern half of the State.
Moderate rain is likely in part of the far north of South
Australia during March, but otherwise rainfall will prob-
ably be poor, with good rains commencing in the agri-
cultural areas during May.
Heavy rains are indicated in the west Kimberleys, and
in the Fortescue and west Gascoyne country during March,
with good rains on the central and south coast and in the
De Grey area.
LENNOX WALKER.


V.
300 Candlepower
~7
i
i
I
I
I
Jt
Model X 244
‘Sttthe diUebeace!
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores throughout Australia,
In eate of difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to urn
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE t
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
consideration to the creation
of a fund to relieve States of
the freight burden when
imports of wheat are made
necessary by drought or other
emergencies.
The council noted with
appreciation a decision by the
Commonwealth to relinquish
claim to undistributed frac-
tional payments on past wheat-
pools, and recommended that
the moneys be returned to
State Wheat Research Com-
mittees on the basis of the
amounts which were collected
from each State. The sum
involved is £290,000.
Council supported a recom-
mendation by a conference of
State and Commonwealth
veterinarians that the Depart-
ment of Health be asked to
prohibit the importation of
ruminants until otherwise
decided. This action was
taken because of the world
spread of “blue-tongue,” a
very serious disease of sheep,
but for which cattle can act
as carriers.
Originating in South Africa,
this disease has in the past two
years been found in south-west
Asia, south-west Europe and
the United States. In at least
some cases it is evident that it
has been spread by the move-
ment of cattle. It is trans-
mitted by insects of the sandfly
type, and is extremely diffi-
cult to control in any circum-
stances —and would be par-
ticularly so under Australia’s
extensive system of sheep-
management.
In view of Australia’s major
economic dependence on the
sheep-and-wool industry, it
was considered unwise to
jeopardise this industry by
ruminant importations, at least
until the position has been
more thoroughly examined and
suitable tests for disease-
carriers devised.
The annual Commonwealth
Dairy Extension Grant of
£250,000 completes its second
five-year term on June 30, 1958.
Council urged the continua-
tion of the grant for a further
period, preferably 10 years,
and also urged that in future
the Commonwealth Govern-
ment should not defer con-
sideration of the grant’s
renewal until the eleventh
hour.
Council also noted with
appreciation a proposal from
the Australian Dairy Industry
Council that the production of
butter and cheese be levied to
provide a maximum income
of about £250,000 a year, such
moneys to be apportioned
between (a) a research fund
and ( b ) a sales-promotion fund.
The Australian Agricultural
Council, in supporting the
proposals for contingent legis-
lation, considered it essential
that any new research pro-
gramme have full regard to,
and be integrated with, exist-
ing organisations engaged on
dairy-research.
Council approved the expen-
diture of a further £2500 to
complete research on fruit-
treatment to destroy the
Queensland and Mediterranean
fruit-fly without injury to the
fruit. This work was initiated
by council in 1956, when
quarantine restrictions imposed
by New Zealand had a serious
effect on the citrus export-
trade. Research results now
give good promise for the
commercial treatment of citrus
with ethylene-dibromide.
The Minister for Primary
Industry said that representa-
tions had been received from
the Graziers’ Federal Council
requesting that the Australian
Meat Board be reconstituted
as a producers’ board ; he said
that this matter was now under
consideration by his depart-
ment.
Experience
“Wiora”: The success of
many ex-city-dwellers, such as
accountants, on the land seems
to illustrate the value of
managerial ability in modern
farming business. Often this
has proved more important
than traditional skill.
Research-workers have found
this to be associated with the
ability to take advantage
of modern developments.
Although it has largely dis-
appeared, the “What’s good
enough for me, son, is good
enough for you” attitude was
common in some districts for
many years.
The Soldier Settlement Com-
mission has done an excellent
job in. selecting ex-servicemen
for the land, but part of the
post - World - War - II scheme’s
success has been attributed to
the broader outlook of the men
as a result of having “got
around” during war service,
with consequent broadening of
the mind to the acceptance of
new ideas.
For this reason, one could
query the policy of exempting
a lot of country boys from
military training. Although
they may never be called on to
fight, these lads could well
benefit by rubbing shoulders
with city boys. in a well-
disciplined camp.
At the same time, the initia-
tive of many country boys in
taking round-Australia holidays
is commended.
With such progressive ideas
is associated a keen interest in
reading agricultural literature
from home and abroad. This
helps greatly to implant new
ideas which are eventually
adopted.
One important research find-
ing is that the wife is an im-
portant figure in the success
of farm enterprises. Scientists’
advice to would-be farmers is,
“If your wife isn’t keen on
farming, don’t try to go on the
land yourself.”
Humans and Pigs
“Truro”: Reported fears by
U.S.A. veterinarians that hogs
will contract Asian ’flu from
humans draw attention to the
fact that swine can get more
than 80 diseases from humans.
Most vets, think the 1918 ’flu
epidemic spread from man to
swine.
Often raised intensively, pigs
are in a vulnerable position for
attack by diseases and parasites,
some of which are transmitted
by the birds which fly around
pig-sties.
Apart from hydatids and
tuberculosis, and in some
countries hydrophobia, humans
don't get many diseases from
animals.
“Billjim”: In harvesting
pasture-seeds, time of cutting
the crop is important. Cutting
when the seed is too immature
results in loss of weight of seed
harvested, but on the other
hand, cutting at the ripe or
over-mature stage will mean
loss by shaking. Best guide
remains the old test of pulling
a few heads through the hand
or sweeping the hat across the
crop. If a few seeds come away
when this is done the crop is
ready to be harvested. If
harvesting is delayed by bad
weather, it is wise to cut in the
cooler part of the day, when
seed is not so easily shed. Once
cut, leave the seed in the
windrow to condition or heat-
ing in the bag can result.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
The Queen Mother’s beauty, serenity
and friendliness were the chief topics at
the garden-party held in her Majesty’s
honor at Government House. A light
southerly tempering the sun’s warmth
gave guests an opportunity to wear light,
gay frocks and hats.
A full-skirted frock of hydrangea-
blue Chantilly-lace, with a soft bertha-
collar on the V-neckline, was chosen by
the Queen Mother. She added a three-
stranded necklace of pearls caught with a
ruby-and-diamond clasp, and on her
shoulder was a sapphire-and-diamond
brooch. Her lace-straw hat, in a deeper
shade of sapphire-blue, had a medium
brim, and her shoes and bag were white.
Lady Brooks wore a frock of misty-blue
chiffon, patterned in deeper blue and
white. Her wide-brimmed hat was made
of layers of tulle in matching blues. Mrs.
Bolte, wife of the Premier, wore a pale-
beige straw sou’-wester hat with her slim-
fitting frock in pine-green and beige
tonings.
Among a host of lovely frocks noted
on the lawns were the one in pink-rose-
printed white faille worn by Mrs. A. G.
Silk; the soft cinnamon-brown laces,
topped by a picture-hat in matching tones,
chosen by Mr. W. K. Burnside ; Wendy
Burbank’s full-skirted frock of white,
patterned in cyclamen flowers; twin
sisters Elizabeth and Patricia Mildred’s
frocks of spotted silk —Elizabeth’s of
corn-gold and white, Patricia’s pastel-
green and white; and Mrs. Garnet
Carroll’s silk-faille ensemble, with which
went a helmet-hat of ice-blue satin.
The awed silence which marked the
progress of the Queen Mother to the
dais at the State reception in the vast
Exhibition Building was, it seemed to this
Letter, far more telling than any cheers
and clapping. Her Majesty, after being
greeted by the Premier and Mrs. Bolte,
was presented with a bouquet by Heather
Thompson, c*tly daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Lindsay Thompson.
Her Majesty looked indeed regal in her
crinoline-gown of white tulle, heavily
embroidered with gold thread and with
sequins on the skirt and decollete bodice.
A matching stole misted her shoulders.
She also wore a high diamond tiara and
a diamond-and-pearl looped necklace
with diamond pendant earrings. On the
blue sash of the Garter was the star of
the Order, and pinned on the ribbon were
two diamond-studded family Orders.
The decorations on the official dais
included bowls of deep-red roses which
almost matched the red velvet chair on
which her Majesty sat. Behind the dais
was a wide gold curtain against which
were set large bowls of white, yellow and
gold flowers. In front was a spraying
fountain topped with a gold crown set
above a circle of trumpets. In the foun-
tain, surrounded by greenery, floated
water-lilies
_
. Mrs ; B olte » *»™ ° f , crei »m
nylon-tulle embro.deredl-with pear s and
tiny amber beads. Lady Herring s was
y mist . blue brocade . rs . McDonald
(wife of the Speaker) chose
cream laces.
Antique amethyst jewellery was worn by
Mrs. Reid (wife of the Minister for
Labor) with her cyclamen-toned gown,
Lady Jungwirth (wife of the Royal-tour
organiser for Victoria) chose an off-
shoulder gown of aqua-blue ; made from
a sari, it was embroidered with a gold-
and-silver thread design. Mrs. Sidney
Baillieu Myer’s choice was a white silk-
organza full skirt appliqued with black
lace, and a high-waisted bodice of blush-
pink faille. Lady Disney’s sheath-frock
of black satin was finished with tiers of
black tulle. Lady Clarke also chose a
sheath-gown, her royal-blue satin featur-
*nS an all-over design of silver beads,
Lady Brooks, whose popularity with
Victorians grows with the years, has been
hostess to her Majesty the Queen Mother
during her stay at Government House.
Her Excellency and Sir Dallas are look-
ing forward to seeing their daughter, who,
with her husband and two children, will
be arriving later in the year to make their
home here.
For her visit to Flemington races the
Queen Mother wore for the first time
during her visit to Melbourne a white
ensemble. Over a sheath frock of white
heavy guipure-lace was a hip-length
jacket. There were no lapels, and just
above the hips the jacket curved gently in
front. Her hat was a froth of ospreys,
white round the brim, then sapphire-blue,
finally finishing near the flat crown in
royal-blue ospreys. She wore a sapphire-
and-diamond brooch, a triple-string of
pearls fastened with a pearl clasp, and
diamond-and-pearl earrings.
Many of the guests in the Royal Box
chose blue for their ensembles. Lady
Brooks looked charming in a white silk
frock patterned in blue, and her hat was
a white sou’-wester swathed in white
chiffon. Lady Manifold’s choice was a
white silk frock patterned in cornflower
blue, and layers of blue tulle made her
picture-hat. Dame Pattie Menzies chose a
turquoise-blue silk-shantung jacket-suit and
a small hat covered with white organdie
flowers. Mrs. Henry Bolte's white silk
sheath-frock was patterned in plums in
Wedgwood-blue tonings, and she wore a
tiny white hat. Mrs. Keith Morrison, wife
of the V.R.C. secretary, chose a jacket-
suit in junior-blue shot paper-silk
shantung.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Hon. Mrs. John Mulholland, one
.of the Queen Mother’s ladies-in-waiting,
received a number of pretty girls and
their partners, who vyere dressed in the
fashions of the early Victorian era at
the dinner-dance held in the Royale Ball-
room in aid of the Queen Victoria Hos-
pital. Mrs. Mulholland’s graceful gown
of brown lace over gold taffeta featured
a sweeping back-drape of gold tulle.
Dame Mabel Brookes (president of the
Q.V.) chose a gown of deep-cream satin
embroidered with pearls and diamente.
Mrs. Harold Holt wore aqua-blue satin,
the full skirt glittering with bead- and
sequin-trimming. Mrs. Norman Strange’s
bouffant gown was of white organza.
Mrs. Norman Pizer and Mrs. John Telford
Smith were responsible for the lovely
decorations.
CANBERRA
To start her one-day second visit to
Canberra the Queen Mother, at the Royal
Military College, Duntroon, presented the
Queen Elizabeth II Banner to the
Sovereign’s Company of cadets.
In hot summer sunshine she drove on
to the parade-ground to be welcomed by
the Governor-General and Lady Slim;
the Prime Minister and Dame Pattie
Menzies; the Commandant R.M.C.,
Major-General J. G. N. Wilton, and his
wife ; and Colonel and Mrs. F. G. Hassett.
Four-thousand people (many of whom
had taken advantage of the “open-day”
privilege of applying for invitations)
occupied special stands and enclosures
looking down on the parade-ground’s
colorful scene. Despite the near-ninety-
degree morning temperature, the Queen
Mother inspected the,cadets, and only
during the actual presentation of the
Banner did she seek the protection of her
white parasol. During the march-past,
in slow- and quick-time, she took- the
salute from a covered dais, and after
three cheers had been given by the parade
to mark the end of the ceremony, she was
the guest of the commandant and Mrs.


Wilton at morning-tea in the officers’
mess.
The blue Brindabella Ranges were the
background to the garden-party given
by the Governor-General and Lady Slim
at Yarralumla in the Queen Mother’s
honor late in the afternoon. Nearly 5000
people from near and far strained to
catch a glimpse of the Royal guest as she
moved among the throng. Large hats and
gaily-colored parasols were popular, and
ma. attractive frocks were worn.
Hours before the glamorous State Ball
was to start, crowds gathered outside
Parliament House, which, floodlit and
surmounted by an illuminated crown,
looked like a jewel in the night. There
were sighs of admiration as the Queen
Mother, wearing a magnificent crinoline
gown in snow-white organza and lace
accented by the blue sash of the Garter,
stepped from her car to be welcomed by
the Prime Minister and Dame Pattie
Menzies. With a smile as sparkling as
her diamond tiara and necklace, she
turned and waved to the crowd.
Lady Slim, who wore a bouffant gown
in white paper-taffeta embroidered in
tiny seed-pearls, a diamond tiara and
necklace, was on the Royal dais with the
Governor-General to greet the Queen
Mother in the ballroom. King’s Hall was
ablaze with lights and flowers.
The Queen Mother left the ball at
11. and this Letter, watching her
depart, saw no signs of the strain of her
busy day.
SYDNEY
General comment on the Queen
Mother's visit to Sydney seems to indicate
that it was a great success — but for the
staring. Actually, at the State Reception,
held in the evening at the Town Hall,
this was not too apparent, but at other
social functions it was blatant and
embarrassing. Still, one must remember
that the Queen Mother is a sight to
behold, that Australians as a whole are
not sophisticated or blase, and that
crowd-psychology is a weird thing which
often causes individuals to act in a more
childish way than they would normally.
One gets the impression that the
entertainers of Sydney missed an oppor-
tunity during the visit, and that the
crowds of people who waited hours to
see the Queen Mother deserved some sort
of amusement. Buskers playing to the
crowds would have reaped a harvest. Of
course, they may not have been allowed
by law ; but, if so, the organisers should
have included some entertainment for the
general public. It was delightful to see
the number of English-looking people
making their way to the various routes,
proud, beaming smiles on their faces,
camp-stools in their hands. Another,nice
after-image that remains is the number
of morning-tea parties on the lawns aH
along Middle Head Road when the
Queen Mother went to Balmoral. The
pretty summer dresses, the colored
umbrellas, the children, the greetings and
gatherings made a charming picture.
* ☆ ☆
The heroines of the week were the
mannequins who paraded warm winter
fashions with the humidity at 96 per cent.
The many showings and the shop-
windows have now established that we
are to have the Relaxed Look for the
coming season. One man, seeing a
particularly sad-looking sack, said it was
so relaxed it seemed to have stopped try-
ing! However, there are many wearable
garments in the new line, and even the
extreme types should be rather fun,
especially for those who have mastered
the new walk, which has a falling-over-
backwards look.
Claire Voorhees, one of America’s
smart women executives, arrived in Syd-
ney on Saturday for a short visit. She
will move on later to Melbourne,
Adelaide and Brisbane. A stunning
petite blonde, Claire travels for 11½
months each year in her job as Sales
Promotion Director for Revlon in 75
countries. She has a keen eye for talent;
she discovered film-stars Barbara Britton
and Suzy Parker. While in Australia she
will be looking for a local lass to be
groomed into a personality-girl for the
TV-show her firm plans to present later
this year.
One of the parades of the week was
entirely organised by men (is this a
record?). This was the Lions Club’s
presentation of House of Youth clothes
by Christian Dior and Yves St. Laurent.
It was in aid of the Royal Blind Society
and was opened by Mrs. Marcel Deky-
vere, who did not seem worried by having
to pronounce “Yves St. Laurent,” a
hazard which everyone else seemed to
dodge. Miss Joyce Deane was the
compere and Sydney’s head Lion, Mr. H.
Wakeham, with Mrs. Wakeham, received
the guests-of-honor, who included the
president of the Blind Society, Mr.
Justice Maxwell.
* ☆ *
If dresses are to be rather odd this
season, the same is not true of hats. In
a strange reversal of form, hats are to
be pretty and becoming, and so head-
hugging that once they’re on, they’re on,
as the saying goes. At a parade of Anne
Collins hats compered by the daughter
of the house, Mary Anne Macdonald,
small, jewel-colored hats were mostly
shown, the beret with back interest, the
turban and the cloche. Ospreys such as
were worn by the Queen Mother are back
in fashion, sometimes forming a pretty
halo round an evening-hat, while
feathers are a favorite type <*f decoration
generally.
# ♦♦♦ #
“You know, people write plays about
weather like this,” said one woman at a
fashion-show during the week. “They’re
mostly Americans from the deep South,
like Tennessee Williams.” Well, one
such play did open at the Independent
Theatre midweek. It was “Cat on a Hot
Tin Roof,” and that play certainly is
humid. Bettina Welch, who, if she’s not
careful, will be typed as a person who
always takes off her shoes and slinks
round the stage with catlike grace (she
did it in “Double Image,” too), per-
formed a tour-de-force in the first act by
doing practically all the talking and
never fluffing a word. She wore two
beautiful chiffon dresses during this
scene, one patterned in brown, the other
in emerald green. There was a large
first-night audience for this show, and it
is likely that there will be large audiences
for the whole run whether or not the
weather continues to match it.
*l* -l* *l*
The High Commissioner for Pakistan,
Lieut.-General Mohammed Yousuf, and
Begum Yousuf held a 6.30 p.m. party at
their residence, 11 Wellington Street,
Woollahra, on Sunday in honor of Sir
John Marriott, who is the Deputy Grand
President of the British Empire Services
League. Guests included delegates from
23 Commonwealth countries (including
Nigeria, Ghana and Jamaica) who
attended the conference of the B.E.S.L.
in Canberra, which was opened by the
Queen Mother on February 16 ; members
of the N.S.W. Government; and
members of the R.S.L. Executive
Committee of N.S.W.
☆ ☆ ☆
The committee for the Town and
Country Ball has settled on Tuesday,
April 1, for this delightful annual event.
President of the committee is Mrs.
Clinton Ayers; secretary, Mrs. Colin
Wise. Those who have the job of sending
out tickets are Mrs. Keith Fisher (56
Woodlands Avenue, Balgowlah) and Mrs.
W. Macrea (Coolong Road, Vaucluse).
Proceeds of the ball will be in aid of
the Smith Family.


flower just come into bloom.
Ronnie bore it patiently at
first; but after a while he
began to grumble when dinner
was late because Mrs. Hamil-
ton had wanted Lyla to come
over.
“We get along all right with-
out a dining-room carpet, or a
dining-room either,” he said
when Lyla came back with a
bruised thumb after helping
with the tack-hammer. “Why
can’t she do her own jobs for
herself and leave us alone?
Why, it’s pas| six-o’clock! ”
But Lyla put both arms
round his neck and apologised
for being late, and even con-
sented to call Mrs. Hamilton
a selfish old so-and-So, for his
sake. Indeed, she hadn’t at all
wanted to tack down that
carpet. But it was hard to say
no to the poor old girl, all
alone over there, and really
very kind to Lyla, whatever
Ronnie thought of her.
Somehow they hadn’t had so
many of the Saturday parties
lately either. But that week it
happened that they were hav-
ing a really big one, for once ;
Ronnie’s sister was up from
the city on holiday, Lyla’s
cousins were staying in
town. There would be twenty
people at least. Lyla half-
thought of asking Mrs. Hamil-
ton over —poor old thing.
But she decided against it,
almost without having to* con-
sider. The idea of Mrs. Hamil-
ton, in her black corded-
taffeta suit with the frilled
white shirt-front, with her
precise voice, and her white
hair so quietly waved, simply
didn’t go with the easy good-
humored crowd that would fill
Lyla.'s kitchen and living-
room and overflow on to the
sagging veranda—with the keg
of beer on the kitchen-table,
the glasses leaving rings every-
where, the shirt-sleeves and
the women in their cotton
and synthetic jewellery.
She was glad she hadn’t
askfid her, , since for some
reason the party was a remark-
ably noisy one; Ronnie’s
brother had brought a few
extra men and the men had
brought a few extra bottles.
Mrs. Hamilton’s light went
out early, and the windows
and shutters on the side of her
house that faced the Browns’
were closed—Lyla thought
they were probably locked.
And on Sunday she went
out early and caught the
church bus, and didn’t come
back all day.
/~\N Monday morning Lyla
couldn’t help feeling self-
conscious as she hung out the
wash and took a peep over
her shoulder once or twice to
see if Mrs. Hamilton was
there.
She was surprised to find
that she felt the way she used
to when she hadn’t done her
homework properly, and the
teacher Miss Goodridge,
whom she used to have such
a crush on, and who wore
such pretty clothes and spoke
so nicely—looked at her and
said, “Oh, Lyla, and you
could be top of the class if you
only tried!”
Yes, it was just that feeling.
She laughed herself out of it.
What business was it of the
old girl’s if she and Ronnie
wanted to have a good noisy
party once in a while? - Lyla
was a married woman and old
enough to know what she
wanted, wasn’t she? And she
wanted what Ronnie wanted,
and other people could just
mind their business.
But Mrs. Hamilton was just
as usual, to Lyla’s relief. She
called out and asked Lyla to
come to afternoon-tea, because
she’d been over to her sister’s
place yesterday and brought
back some things her sister
had been minding for her til!
she got the house to rights.
Lyla might like to see them.
Lyla went over after chang-
ing into a clean dress; one of
her best it was, and so tight
round the waist nowadays,
since her figure had begun to
grow plumper, that she hardly
ever bothered to put it on
nowadays.
“Bread-and-jam,” she said
to herself crossly in the mirror,
drawing in her stomach.
Mrs. Hamilton gave her
tea in the sitting-room, where
Lyla had helped her hang the
brocade curtains and put
down the coffee-colored wall-
to-wall carpet. Tea was in the
very best white fluted cups ; it
wasn’t like a Monday after-
noon at all.
Mrs. Hamilton showed her
the linen her grandmother had
embroidered long ago, and the
old pieces of jewellery, and
then she set up a screen and a
little projector and showed her
color-slide photographs of her
sister’s house and her sister’s
daughter and her husband and
the children—all neat and
pretty and well-dressed, with a
pony and two Labrador dogs.
They lived in a northern
suburb in Sydney, and the two
little girls went to a fashion-
able school there.
Lyla was uncomfortable in
her tight dress, but the photo-
graphs were worth it. They
were nearly as good as Holly-
wood.
Lyla began to smarten-up
the house. If Ronnie put a
cup of tea down without the
saucer, she’d say, “Mind the
paint, Ron. I only got that
done a few days ago and I
don’t want it spoilt straight-
away.”
And instead of sitting on the
veranda after tea, with their
arms around each other,
watching the river and talking,
she set him to mending the
catch of the kitchen-window,
or fixing a loose board.
Ronnie seldom protested, but
his mouth went down at the
corners and he worked in
silence.
“Don’t you want things to
look decent?” she said once
or twice.
But he only said “Yair, I
suppose so.” And Lyla’s feel-
ings went on confusing her;
sometimes she felt guilty
towards Ronnie, sometimes
towards Mrs. Hamilton, and
she could never quite tell why.
It made her snappy some-
times, the way Ronnie never
said anything,
She had begun to work hard
in the garden, too, clearing the
weeds and the old cat’s-claw
creeper away, putting in a
few plants; things that Mrs.
Hamilton gave her. Mrs.
Hamilton showed her how to
strike cuttings in flower-pots,
and Lyla got Ronnie to mow
the grass in hopes that it
would turn into a lawn.
But it never looked half as
nice as Mrs. Hamilton’s was
beginning to. Of course, her
garden had been put in
properly from the start, not just
patched up like the Browns’
and with Jim Harrison coming
out twice a week, it was
beginning to look really
wonderful.
Lyla could hardly remember
the time when there had just
been the Browns’ straggling
picket-fence, and the scrub and
lantana and the birds singing
there in the early mornings.
But sometimes she stood and
looked across there, trying to
remember, and she was sur-
prised to feel a small dragging
pain as she thought of it, a
sense of loss.
It was Ronnie. He wasn’t the
same somehow, she decided.
Once he had come straight back
from work ; now he sometimes
stayed for a game of pool or a
beer or two, or even stopped
back at the firm and did a bit
of overtime. He had always
got out of overtime, on some
excuse or other, when they
were first married.
Still, she had Mrs. Hamilton
there now, so she didn’t miss
him as she would have done
before. And Mrs. Hamilton
was always ready to slip over
for a talk, to lend Lyla copies
of “Vogue,” to advise her
about colors for dresses or
curtains, and to listen to her
playing and singing. She even
gave her some sheet-music and
song-albums—too arty, Ronnie
called them—but Lyla practised
them just the same.
Quite often, too, Mrs.
Hamilton had her own friends
out from town for an after-
noon’s bridge, and sometimes
she asked Lyla across. Lyla
didn’t like to say she didn’t
♦care for bridge, so she
pretended she couldn’t play,
and it usually ended in her
setting the tray, for afternoon-
tea and handing round the cups
and clearing,up afterwards.
Mrs. Haifiilton’s sister, too,
took a great fancy to her. “1
quite miss you, when you don’t
come over to Eileen’s parties,”
she said to Lyla. “I often say
to Eileen, ‘Now where is your
dear little lame duck today?’
You mustn’t be offended,
dear ; it’s just my way. After
all, you are a duck, you know
a perfect little duck.”
And Lyla smiled agreeably,
not knowing whether she was
offended or not.
Mrs. Hamilton often spent
her weekends with her sister;
but at last the sister came to
stay with her instead. Lyla
grew worried, and tried to
explain to Ronnie that this
weekend the Saturday party
really ought to be a bit quieter.
“After all, it’s different now
we've got neighbors. We
mustn’t disturb the old ladies
too much. So do try and keep
the Lister boys from making
too much noise, Ronnie ; and
don’t put the keg on the kitchen-
table because that new paint
marks badly.”
And she tried to make
the party a bit more formal,
so that they’d all know
they were expected to behave
well. She wore her new dress,
that Mrs Hamilton had helped
her make—a sort of heavy dark
satiny stuff, with a little cock-
tail-hat to match. Vera and
Marlie and Shirley admired it
ecstatically.
But somehow the party was
a flop. Everyone left rather
early; and though Lyla told
herself she had wanted that tp
happen, it made an empty end
to the evening. And Ronnie
wasn’t in a good temper, either.
He went off early next morn-
ing, down to the jetty, with


some excuse or other about
having to do a job on his
brother’s launch. He’d taken
sandwiches with him, but Lyla
didn't believe he would really
stay away from her for Sunday
dinner, and cooked it just the
same. When he wasn’t home
by half-past one, she didn’t feel
like eating herself, but let the
food dry out in the shut-off
oven, and sat limply on the
veranda with stinging eyes.
Perhaps she had been on his
neck a bit these last weeks,
making him mow the lawn, fix
the back-steps, build her a
rockery. She knew quite well
that Vera and the rest thought
she was getting too big for
her boots—a cocktail-hat at a
Saturday party! Well, let them
think. Wasn’t it right to make
the place look decent, to wear
the right thing, to try to get on
a bit?
She sat there until Mrs.
Hamilton came home from
seeing her sister off in the bus,
and asked her over for a
cup of tea.
Lyla knew that Mrs.
Hamilton knew there was some-
thing wrong that afternoon ;
and Mrs. Hamilton’s con-
siderate refusal to show that
she did know it, her acting
as though it was the same as
any other day, made Lyla’s
troubles a dozen times more
real to her. Mrs. Hamilton
never mentioned Ronnie, or
wondered why he wasn’t home
this fine Sunday afternoon, but
seemed to take it for granted
that Lyla should be alone and
needing company. That was
what hurt.
So when Ronnie came home
at five-o’clock, warm and good-
tempered again and ready to
apologise if necessary, she
pushed him away and told him
off. That night they slept
back to back, resentful, not
touching. It had never been
like that before.
ALL the week they were
strained and uneasy with
each other, either snappy or
unnaturally polite. But on
Friday, Ronnie came home
with a parcel in his hand, and
tiptoed into the kitchen where
she was peeling potatoes, and
kissed tjre back of her neck as
he used to do. She looked up,
half-sullen, half-yielding.
“Let's ring them all up and
put off the party, Ly,” he
whispered. “Let’s have a week-
end down the Bay like we used
to. I’ve got a boat for the two
days, and we'll camp at the
Point. Look here.”
He undid the parcel. There
was a new nylon line for her
fishing-rod, and a cute new
peaky cotton cap like the ones
they were advertising in town.
She tried it on, pulling it down
over one eye ; it made her look
like a wicked little girl. My
word, Ronnie said, it did suit
her!
She hugged him. It was just
what she’d wanted, she said, a
weekend down the Bay. “I’m
sick of the old house, and the
smell of paint. I do believe
that’s why I’ve been so cross
lately. Wasn’t I silly?”
The good spots in the Bay
were full of boats at anchor,
and the holiday-makers and
their wives all knew Ronnie
and Lyla. The little waves
broke blue and white, the boats
all rocked together, and the
fishermen shouted to each other
and joked and compared
catches. On the Point that
night there were campfires and
tents, and the mosquitoes
pinged in the moonlight. Lyla
rested her head on Ronnie’s
shoulder and played her guitar,
and everyone gathered round
their tent and sang—all the
pops, all the hits, all the old
favorites.
On Sunday a westerly wind
got up, and the Bay was cold
and choppy. One by one the
boats went back, and at last
they had to follow. Lyla’s nose
was sunburnt, and Ronnie ran
a hook under his thumbnail.
They had engine trouble, and
had to row the last part of the
way back to the jetty, and
Lyla felt a blister coming.
“Here, you can row by your-
self, can’t you, even if you have
got a sore thumb? The sun’s
giving me a headache.”
They pulled the boat up and
tied her, and started home with
the bundles of gear, Ronnie
bent under the weight of the
tent and blankets. After a
while they stopped and sat
down for a rest. Lyla in her
smart peaked cap looked petu-
lant and a little swollen. Sun-
burn always made . her nose
swell and she couldn’t help
squinting down it.
“There isn’t enough brim to
this cap,” she said, moving
crossly away as Ronnie put
his arm across her sore
shoulders. “And I’m going to
town on Tuesday to help Mrs.
Hamilton shop for the rest of
her things, and she’s giving me
tea at the hotel. I bet I’ll be
peeling by that time,”
Ronnie was hurt. “Damn
Mrs. Hamilton and the hotel,
too.”
It all began over again. They
sat miserably on their bundles,
their throats aching with resent-
ment.
What if Ronnie did /eave his
bike on top of the new garden-
bed with the carnation-cuttings,
last Tuesday? How was he to
know what they were? What
if Lyla did keep after him
about that hinge on the garden
gate? Wasn’t it for Ronnie’s
comfort just as much as her
own to get things fixed? And
why shouldn’t they have a nice
place just as much as anyone
else? That was all very well,
but who was going to have to
do the work—dig the garden
and paint the roof and pay for
the new china and the stuff
for the curtains, and the new
carpet? What were they doing
getting a new carpet, anyway,
when the bike wasn’t even paid
for yet?
Oh, money, money, money!
Lyla was sick of money—sick
of not having any, that is.
Maybe she could go to town
and earn some for herself if
Ronnie couldn’t manage to.
Well, why not, anyway? Mrs.
Hamilton said she was just as
good as a lot of these popular
radio-entertainers—even if she
did have a lame foot, and
whose fault was that, anyway?
AT that Ronnie turned a
strange color and walked
away.
Lyla burst into tears.
“Oh, I’m sorry, Ronnie. I
never meant to throw that up
at you ever. I don’t know
what’s come over us lately.”
“Well, I do,” said Ronnie,
stopping for a moment, “it’s
that old bitch over the fence.
I bet she said something like
that to you, or it never would
have come into your head. I
don’t know why you’ve taken
to her like you have. She’s too
stuck-up for words.”
“Well, that’s a nice way to
take an apology! ” Lyla sobbed.
“She’s got nothing to do with
it. She just happens to be our
neighbor, and I‘ve got to be
neighborly, haven’t I? It’s all
very well for you—you don’t
have to stay round the house
all day, stuck away out in the
bush a mile from the shops or
the pictures. You don’t stop
to think what it’s like for me,
alone all day with nobody to
talk to. You’re just jealous ;
you don’t want ,me to know
anybody or have anything
other people have. And Mrs.
Hamilton’s been real nice to
me, and you, too. I don’t know
why you’ve got to pick on her.”
“Oh, come on,” Ronnie said
sulkily. “I’m sure I don’t want
to argue any more. Let’s get
back and have some tea. I’m
sick of this and I’m hungry.”
But he wasn’t.
They picked up the bundles
that seemed so much heavier
than they had been. Ronnie
stalked ahead without speak-
ing, and though Lyla had to
walk fast to keep up with him,
she would not ask him to go
slower. Nevertheless she limped
more and more, and almost
took a pleasure in it.
Mrs. Hamilton, working in
her garden in the cool of the
evening, said good - night
pleasantly as they passed, one
behind the other, and watched
with her eyebrows up as they
went through the garden gate
that no longer dragged as
Ronnie opened it. Another
quarrel? Oh well, it was the
way of things. She would hear
about it all in good time.
THE LAURENZLANA CHAPEL
The Medici chapel shows
How Michelangelo
Foresaw so much we know.
The frozen, black and white
Interior seems to be
The outside, darkly bright;
The high, grand style still
glows
With chilled and baffled rage,
That paired the columns: he
Recessed them in each wall
As in an unbarred cage,
So cruelly encased
They neither stand nor fall.
On every side projects
Each panel that he placed.
The art that he created
Gains force from what con-
stricts:
The whole room seems to
glower
Victoria.
With an icy, concentrated
Immensely brooding power.
The soul of modern man
Imprisoned in his own
The creative spirit’s span
Held in the lines, each plane,
By which it was defined;
Great loss as great as gain—
To this we have arisen.
Society without love
Creates a marble prison,
Makes shrunken distances
Through which we coldly
move
Still nearer to what is,
The laws by which we live.
So much these walls can give,
Foreseen so long ago,
Foreseen how much we
know!
Alexander Craig.


imbues it, it seems to me no more than
a highbrow fulfilment of the old
requirement of the magazines: you
can’t have an adventure-story without
the girl in it. But the love-affair is not
important: the journey into the wilder-
ness is the thing; and that, in its queer,
morbid, nightmarish, symbolic fashion,
is something most readers will find as
compelling as it is curious.
Obviously it is not because he lacks
the power to create living characters
that Patrick White’s explorers are only
half-real. The Sydney group in the
background, like the minor characters
of “The Tree of Man,” are very well
done indeed; especially the delightfully
muddled Mrs. Bonner —“I will think,
she used to say, but in all her life had
never discovered the secret of that
process. It was a source of great
exasperation to her, although most
people did not guess.” It is a deliberate
choice of method; an attempt to lift
the novel, through the central charac-
ters, beyond everyday reality into the
higher reality of symbol. It is an
attempt to write not merely a story
but an epic. Just as Stan and Amy
Parker, the central characters of “The
Tree of Man,” were nobody (and
everybody): symbols of common man-
kind: so Voss is a symbol of uncommon
mankind, the fanatic leader, possessed
by gods and devils, who leads man
into the wilderness and destroys him.
In a sense it was Conrad's method;
for such characters as old Singleton
in “The Nigger of the Narcissus” or
Kurtz (not unlike Voss) in “Heart of
Darkness” are symbolic as well as real,
universals as well as individuals. The
difference is that Conrad’s people
manage to stay alive as well as
symbolic, and Patrick White’s don’t.
Since the drama of a novel must depend
ultimately on its human values. I think
Conrad’s method was the better; but
you could certainly say that, granted
his method. White has succeeded
triumphantly in what he sets out to do.
Personally, because I am interested
in Leichhardt, both for his own sake
and for the glimpses we have had of
him in Francis Webb’s dazzling but
incomplete poem and A. H. Chisholm’s
extremely critical biography. I read
the novel with fascination. I don’t
think Voss is the full Leichhardt, if
he is meant to be—the man was more
various; had an engaging habit of
getting lost every other day from his
camps, which Patrick White strangely
fails to make use of; and I doubt the
final solution that his own blackboy cut
his head off —but at the same time there
seems to be a good deal of the real
Leichhardt mixed up in this strange,
fanatical scarecrow.
Douglas Stewart.
Roy Campbell
Volume II of Roy Campbell’s
Collected Poems (The Bodley Head)
is divided into Early Poems (1926-39)
and Later Poems (1939-56), which do
not include the translations of St. John
of the Cross, Baudelaire’s “Fleurs du
Mai” or Horace’s “Art of Poetry.”
War roars through this volume (the
last 120 pages are his long poem in
favor of Franco. “Flowering Rifle”),
and Campbell, most of all poets of his
time, had the voice to roar it; he fought
in the Spanish civil war and in World
War II; he had the courage to live the
life of a hero outside our mechanised
civilisation, and not only that, but he
had the courage to proclaim it to us
Charlies (of whom, with his usual tact,
he remarks, “Charlie Chaplin, the
clown, with his outsize feet, stands to
the author as the symbol of pedestrian
commercial civilisation”); —
By showing them a thing they’ve
seldom seen —-
A writer who is not a dead machine
Turned out like Ford cars in a time
of crisis
From Charlie-factories of Cam or
Isis....
There is even something vastly
heroic in writing 120-page pamphlets
in verse, because that is what “Flower-
ing Rifle” is, and a brilliantly-argued
pamphlet, too, against Communism,
and putting the case for Franco, as
for instance in the difference between
what English clergy and Spanish priests
have to put up with:—
But I, for one, can’t visualise a Dean
Fried, for intransigence, in gaso-
lene . . .
or characterising a type he had no use
for; —
For all things shining generous and
clear
He has low motives and a knowing
leer,
And were a phoenix from its fragrant
pyre
To blossom he would piddle on the
fire.
or rising to heights of extravagant
poetry, as in the long passage on
Franco answering the call and the drops
of blood falling and rising as the red
berets of the Requetes.
It is an admirable performance, as
is “A Letter from the San Mateo
Front.” as was “The Georgiad”; but
the dissertation in heroic couplets needs
a heroic reader. Campbell brings to
his long satires tremendous powers of
sheer poetry, a brilliant and sometimes
cruel insight which he can embody in
the sharpest turn of epigram of his
times, but such things require an
argumentation, an ordered progres-
sion, that neither he nor most other
English practitioners, past or present,
manage to give them, and for this
reason, when the news drops out of
them, they become almost unreadable
except in “selected passages.”
It was always in his shorter pieces
that one most admired him; in such a
thing as the comparatively early poem,
“Pomegranates,” one of the most
beautiful poems of the century: —
Pomegranates, colder than the moon
In whom a maiden breast rebels,
Forcing the smooth gold of their
shells
To split with rubies to the n00n....
In those days, one opined that this was
everything Campbell could do; but
there are at least two lyrics in this
present collection, not maybe as tight
and fine-drawn, but as memorable;
“The Singing Hawk,” and “Twin
Reflections,” the second a hymn of
very earthly love, while in the short
piece beginning:—
I never felt such glory
As handcuffs on my wrists
he draws war with a few lines, a picture
in words that has all the energy and
terrible starkness of Goya.
R. McC.
James the Sixth
It is hardly surprising that Antipasto
(Georgian House) should be Walter
James’s sixth book since 1949; he
writes them so easily that it is a
wonder it isn’t his 66th.
James’s models are Montaigne and
Norman Douglas; but Montaigne’s
essays, if wonderfully inconsequential
in arrangement, generally stick to the
point and are at least two or three
pages in length; and Norman Douglas,
the most casual of writers to a casual
glance, rounds and polishes his essays
until they are as luminous and shapely
as Venetian glassware. In this book
of James’s, on the contrary, the essays
consist often ju§t of a single page —
two or three paragraphs —and even at
that are liable to wander oft' in all
directions. They are the most random
of random jottings.
This is very wicked of Walter
James. There can be no doubt what-
ever that he should sit down and write
a proper essay, a proper book. A wine-
tasting is all very well; but what about
a*full bottle occasionally?
The disarming thing is, of course,
that he does these little jottings so
delightfully; and, often enough, use-
fully and at least without padding. The
book is all about wine and food—
when it is not about Chaucer, barbers,
slaughtermen, ancient Crete, sharks,
slaves, Scythians, share-registers and
sin—and here you may learn the precise
meaning of that alarming term
“virgin” (applied to olive-oil); how to
make the correct salad-oil (not too
much of that vinegar) and how to
pickle your own olives.
You may read, with rage or relish
as you please, how much the author


An essential guide book to anywhere
NATURE IS YOUR GUIDE
Harold Gatty
Before his tragic death last year the eminent Australian airman Harold Gatty
(he was the first man with Wiley Post to fly round the world in 1931) completed
this book on natural navigation, which we consider one of the most important
publishing events of 1958. A book for all who love the open air, it shows how a
man can find his way anywhere in the world without artificial aids by careful
observation of “Nature’s Signposts.”
Ready early March
COLLINS—PUBLISHERS
From all
Booksellers
THE VILLAGE HAMPDEN
By E. O. Schlunke
E. O. Schlunke offers realism, wit, action and a memorable gallery of people in this
new collection of short stories. Among them are “The Uplifting of Wagoona,” a
funny yet moving account of a conference in a depressed agricultural town; “Alfred,”
about a Lutheran pastor’s intolerably priggish son and his strange destiny; and
“The Village Hampden,” the story of a schoolteacher’s single-handed fight against a
ruthless football committee in a small town. 17/6 (post 7d.)
. At all booksellers and . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
dislikes dogs. There are strange facts
about potatoes and onions. There is
a very sensible plea for the restoration
of the old-fashioned cruet —whatever
was wrong with it, anyhow, and why
should you have to waste so much
time at dinner separately passing every-
body the mustard, the pepper and
whatnot? There is some horrible infor-
mation about Cornish pasties, a
thoughtful disquisition on bedknobs,
a note on the highly edible qualities of
yabbies (or what they call “marrons”
in Westralia), and a very shocking
revelation that it is bad form to call
the bill-of-fare the “menu.” There are
also several references to literature.
Here are, in short, the contents of a
well-stocked mind and stomach . . .
"The Observer"
Sydney’s new fortnightly, “The
Observer,” put out by Consolidated
Press, is neither very good nor very
bad. Its format is plain and formal —
starkly English in appearance. Its
leading article says that Australia must
do something to kick the Russians out
of our Antarctic territories (in case
they affect the weather); a very forcible
statement somewhat weakened at the
end by the admission that we really
can’t do anything about it now. Its
art-critic says that William Dobell
should have won the Archibald Prize
every year since he began exhibiting.
Its theatre-critic says that “The Doll”
is “the first major piece of theatre” we
have had, and that Euripides is
“nonsense.” One of its commentators
is upset because Henry Lawson is being
published in America, and one of its
reviewers gives a reasonable account
of Patrick White’s Voss. There are
three reviews of Australian books and
about a dozen on worth-while books
from overseas. Some heavyweight
articles on politics, economics and
foreign affairs are balanced by light
travel-notes on Queensland and Sydney
by Bernard Hesling and D. E. Chari-
wood. There is a bright “profile” by
“Joe” Gullett on Sir Earle Page. On
the whole it is tolerably stodgy, but
looks as if it ought to be stodgier.
Reviewed Briefly
Repairs and Odd Jobs and Heating
and Lighting: W. P. Matthew, F. J.
Christopher and Tony Wilkins
(Parrish). Two do-it-yourself books,
with illustrations, on tiling walls,
repairing ceilings, laying floor-tiles of
rubber or lino, (you begin from the
centre), dealing 1 with dry-rot, fixing
doors, enclosing baths, de-squeaking
stairs. The light-and-heat book is about
electric-wiring, oil-lamps, using living-
room fires to warm bedrooms, hot-
water heating, draught-proofing and
fibre-insulation for warmth.
* # * *
Ciske the Rat: Piet Bakker (Michael
Joseph) is the story of a (very)
delinquent boy, whose lesser crimes
included throwing an inkpot at his
teacher’s head and knifing a classmate.
His story is told with sympathy and
understanding by his teacher —the first
per: on ever to try and win his confi-
dence. A European best-seller and,
cinematically, a prizewinner at Venice.
sji # * *
Warden of the Smokes and Bells:
Richard Llewellyn (Michael Joseph).
Set in 13th-century Assisi. Into this
sleepy and poor township bursts a
magnificent caravan, headed by Marco
Polo and his companion, Princess
Na-Nou, daughter of the Grand Khan.
The author’s imagination is no less
prolific and extravagant. If his pseudo-
archaic language palls at times and
events crowd themselves out, the story
is told with zest.
* * * *
The Girl in Front of Cook’s: Reese
Wolfe (Constable). Another trifle on
funny family happenings in the
’twenties. This one is set in Paris, and
the teller of the tale, a 17-year-old boy,
has an unspoken passion for a girl
who stands in front of Cook’s Tourist
Bureau. It is smoothly written, and
there are drawings of people in the
comical costumes of the period, but
somehow it doesn’t seem ever to become
quite funny enough.
* * * *
A Gathering of Fugitives: Lionel
Trilling (Seeker and Warburg). Trilling
is one of the few first-rate American
literary critics; but this collection of his
essays is rather dry; what he has to
say about Edmund Wilson, for
instance, has anything but the bite and
incision of his subject; and in his essay
on “The American Intellectual at the
Present Time” he seems a little caught-
up in the situation he has come to
diagnose —the payment of a lot of
careerists to organise and think about
literature and art; all talk and no do.
Still, he has his own remarks to make
on such practical and real subjects as
Zola, Robert Graves, Dickens, Freud,
David Riesman, Dr. Leavis, Monckton
Milnes (Lord Houghton, Keats’s first
biographer)—the Milnes essay is the
most alive and interesting in the book.
* * * *
The Golden Sovereign: Richard
Church (Heinemann). This concludes
his autobiography begun with “Over
the Bridge”; but it has lost the magic
of that first volume, which seems to
have resided in the wonderful portrait
of his mother. This one shows him
taken into the civil service, and court-
ing a young singer who leaves him
for another; and leaves him married
and an author of a book of poems
which brings in about the best bit of
drawing in the book; a portrait of
W. H. Davies, the tramp-poet, at home
in London.


1
•>>.*. v >. ;X;tv .*•>;! v.;>. v.»
.$& '■ :'
mmm
Wm^wm
-
*v«XvX
'^mmm
gffiy.yy.
COX-yCC
. .„.. - -
wm
■
mMPP
m*
wm
■■■
PKTT*>
X-.V.-.'i-.'-f»V*a!
Wv •'xSfttf
g M
mm&m
< >s&*& gss
j »**sifcjK
wsP**** •
r^fPi
sss
>ww
i
'■
fffCT
IS
'
BAD ROADS ARE
COSTING YOU PLENTY!
| -in wasted lives... wasted time... higher food bills
WASTED LIVES. Year after year our bad roads are contrib-
uting to accident after accident. Scores of Australians are
being killed or permanently injured. To cope with the ever-
increasing flow of modern fast-moving traffic, today's roads
must be straight and wide so that both pedestrian and motorist
can enjoy greater safety.
WASTED TIME. Bad roads cause costly delays. Frustrating delays
in congested traffic, at rail crossings, on long slow hauls up steep
narrow inclines . . . these and many other faults in our road system
help push up the prices of goods and services which are ultimately
passed on to you—forcing up your cost of living.
YOU ARE PAYING millions of pounds a year for Aust-
ralia’s thousands of miles of crumbling, out-moded roads
and congested city streets. Lives are lost every day through
unsafe rail crossings, narrow bridges, dangerous crests and
other hazards.
We need a blueprint for better roads NOW !
Australia has the engineers, the manpower and the ingenuity
to build good roads. What is urgently required is an
Australian National Roads Authority, a single body backed
by the necessary powers and funds. This could be the first
step to ensure that our road construction programme keeps
CATERPILLAR
fOK
roa° s
QRtTtR
*
A NO
CAT ARE REGISTERED
TRADE MARKS
OF CATERPILLAR
TRACTOR CO.
When you think of
better roads think of the
big yellow machines
that help build them.
mm
mmm
■■■■■■;
CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
