

The Bulletin
Making an Encyclopaedia —page n
Wednesday , April 9, 1958
Price 1/«
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
When the two lights are steady, I know the wife's O.K.; but when the top one
shows the temperature's rising and the bottom is flashing red, I duck straight
back to the pub."


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney-
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
GEORGE MOORE IN LOVE
George Moore’s Letters to Lady
Cunard (Hart-Davis), edited with an
introduction by Rupert Hart-Davis,
constitute the novel he didn’t write,
though if one follows the implications
of an extract from his “Heloise and
Abelard,” printed as appendix, they
are the basis of a novel that he did
write, and this would amply dispose of
the wisecrack that some men kissed and
told but George Moore told but didn’t
kiss.
He first met her in 1894, the wealthy
22-year-old Maud Alice Burke, of
San Francisco; within a year she had
married Sir Bache Cunard; she became
one of England’s leading hostesses, she
separated in 1911 from Cunard, who
died in 1925, and she never remarried.
This suavely-edited book, and Moore’s
maze of exquisite words which lead the
reader up so many garden-paths, bid
one tread delicately; but the impression
Moore seems to have wanted to make
was that after falling in love with her
at first sight in the pink-and-grey shot-
silk dress he worked and reworked in
his prose, he decided that marriage
would spoil their affection ... on the
other hand, she seems to have felt the
need for freedom for experiment, too.
Nevertheless, these letters, the
remainder of what Lady Cunard did
not bum, record his unfailing affection
from 1895 until his death, at 80, in
1933.
And how did the finest writer of
English of his times, looking out from
his page with “the glacial gaze of the
serpent who is the enemy of man,” the
literary sophisticate, the delicately-
bored connoisseur of women, write to
his love?
Dearest Maud, dearest Primavera!
I do not know what primavera
means, or if I have spelt it sufficiently
for you to recognise the word. It
means spring, doesn’t it? It means
joy, the joy of green leaves with the
flutter of wings among the leaves,
and you, dearest, mean all these
things to me....
“Primavera,” in his imagination,
gave place to “Fountain”: —
... .You seem to me as marvellous
as a rose, as a tea-rose in its prime,
as Shelley’s hymn to Pan, as a bust
by a Greek or Florentine sculptor.
A sky full of stars does not astonish
me more than your face, your
marmoreal eyes I do not know if
it be the eternal idea of joy which
you represent on earth, or its out-
ward form, that delights me most—
the gold of your hair, your hand like
a spray of fern. You come into a
room filling the air with unpre-
meditated music. The best compari-
son I can think of is the indefinite
hum of a fountain and its various
color transformations —you are as
unreal as a fountain and as spiritual.
That was written in 1905. He recurs
and recurs to the fountain idea in his
letters as, throughout his life, he
patiently rewrote his books, until in
1925, Lady Cunard at last having
consented to his dedicating a book to
her (she had stopped him many times),
he put in front of “Ulick and
Soracha”; —
Dear Lady of my thoughts, dear
Lady Cunard, time turns all things
into analogues and symbols, and in
the course of the years I have come
to think of you as an evening
fountain under embosoming trees.
The fountain murmurs, sings, exults ;
it welcomes every coming minute ; ,
and when the dusk deepens in the
garden and the gallants enfold their
ladies in scarves and veils and the
rout disperses, the fountain sings
alone the sorrows of the waterlilies
to the moon.
Someone said of Moore that he
would not betray you but that you had
to wait until he had an opportunity to
do so before you would believe it; and
it is in this frame of mind that the
reader proceeds through the extrava-
gances of these letters. At first they
seem no more than adroit flatteries of
a woman of wealth and influence;
slowly you come to realise that the
old boy’s really got it bad; little things
add up, like the present of a delicate
French scent, made for scenting under-
wear; a request that she will seek him
out a chocolate-service; profound
consideration of the well being and
literary career of Lady Cunard’s
daughter Nancy; more than a hint of
jealousy whenever the name of another
famous English artist is mentioned;
ecstatic appreciations of Wagner and
of Debussy —any musical matter that
would interest his musically-minded
inamorata; pleased, when he was old,
that she should visit him; unrestrained
anguish when she signed a letter from
Spain “Maud Emerald” —had she
married? Who was this Mr. Emerald?
—she having merely decided to be
known as Emerald rather than Maud.
And in his will he left her all his not
inconsiderable estate: that is final. He
wanted her to have everything —within
limits; it is impossible to imagine a
George Moore without reservations.
For instance, she kept at least these of
his letters to her, and he told a
biographer to seek them from her. but
he does not seem to have kept any of
her letters to him; and he would have
been quite equal to feeling that her
prose was not worthy of his love. There
is no one more ruthless than the maker
of stylistic masterpieces, in art or in
life.
NUPTIAL HYMN
The thick Candle with the golden flame
Dipped in the womb of waters —holy
rite —
Quenchless has quickened it with secret
light;
The dead have risen; seraphs sing the
Name,
Which is like fragrant oil poured on the
night.
Come, flesh redeemed, with chrism of
joy anointed,
The children of the Spirit and the Bride,
God’s breathing icons: naked side by
side,
Enter the paradise for you appointed;
The Cherub’s sword shall guard you, not
divide.
From your embrace in flower honey is
stored
By winged spirits in the eternal comb;
Expectant earth beneath the starry dome
Sings through your bodies’ rapture to its
Lord:
O Lumen Christi, leading all things home.
n.s.w.
JAMES McAULEY.
"Seedtime"
Vance Palmer appears to be writing
a series of novels about a Queensland
union-organiser who started his career
as a rough-and-ready Good Samaritan
in the mining-town he calls Golconda
and who, perhaps, will rise to be
Premier. Seedtime (Angus and
Robertson) is a sort of interval between
Golconda and the Premiership; and, as
in most intervals, nothing very much
happens in it.
It is the story of how Macy
Donovan, the union-man, failed to
make much impression in his first
session in Parliament; went on a jag
for a fortnight and got himself knifed
by an Italian; fell out with the Premier;
accidentally inspired an Italian to
blow-up a sugar-train during a strike;
and then, after being in danger of
losing his preselection for the seat,
rehabilitated himself in Golconda and
was returned to Parliament with an
increased majority and a similar
increase in self-assurance.
Added to this are Donovan’s love-
affairs; a recapitulation of his passion
for a girl who falls into sin at King’s
Cross; then an account of how he was
pursued by a politically-minded nurse,
but eventually married her sister, a
capable, likeable and energetic woman
who is going to push him on in politics.
All this is really quite a lot to
happen in a novel. But, because of
some confusion in the construction—
oContinued on page 58)


Announcing
* 1 v i
(VALUE MEASURED
itjHm
THE USED EQUIPMENT BUYING PLAN
YOU'VE BEEN WAITING FOR!
Now you can buy used motor trucks with the same confidence that you
buy new trucks. I H Value Measured trucks are given a thorough test by
skilled mechanics.' Each major component is tagged and on these tags the
condition of each part clearly shown. If reconditioning has been carried
out the value of work put into each part is itemized.
This means you can evaluate VM trucks at a glance, knowing that the
condition has been clearly and honestly stated. VM does what you would
like to do yourself when buying used trucks —if you had the time and
facilities. VM is an honest assessment and it can save you time, money
and worry. Combine I H and VM for the best in used trucks at surprisingly
low prices.
takes the
guesswork out of
used motor truck buying
m
-
II
tin mtitm
USED MOTOR TRUCKS
NOW AVAILABLE AT 111 DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
NTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
District Sates Offices in Capital Cities. Works; Dandenong and Geelong, Victoria
VM.M7.3*


The Bulletin
Wednesday, April 9,1958
Vol 79—No. 4078
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathans Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
THE AGE OF CONFUSION
HAVING supposedly destroyed the
“cult of personality” in 1953, Comrade
Khrushchev has re-established it with
frills in an atmosphere of curious
confusion.
He has been gradually eliminating
all the supposed sharers of his
authority and glory. The “joint”
secretaryship of the Russian Com-
munist party became almost moribund
the moment it was founded. The great
figures of the war disappeared one
after another from Russian inner
councils. First Beria, one of Stalin’s
chosen heirs ; then all Stalin’s stout
henchmen in the Kremlin staffs ; then
his friends and fellow-travellers in
Tiflis and the Caucasus; then the
greater generals of the Stalinist days of
the purge ; finally, greater figures still
—M alenkov, Stalin’s successor ;
Molotov, his alter ego in foreign
affairs; Kaganovich, his brother-in-
law ; and Zhukov.
Almost every day the atmosphere
of Moscow became more Napoleonic.
Voroshilov, once a power, became
merely an ancient relic when he was
confirmed into the titular Presidency.
Bulganin grew to be but a writer of
wordy Notes which could be repudiated
if they produced inconvenient results.
Among the truly great only Mikoyan,
the Armenian, remained as a
treacherous survival with an Oriental
mind when Bulganin faded into the
obscurity from which he came, and as
suddenly as he came, on March 27.
And then a survey showed a position
in which the Soviet Union had returned
to the “personality cult,” almost exactly
as it was in 1933, and probably as it
had been all along behind the smoke-
screen of propaganda. <
But there was scarcely anybody (in
the higher circles of government) left
to make the comparison out of an
intimate personal knowledge.
In 1933 Russia was ruled by the
general-secretary of the Communist
party, with a subject politbureau and
an executive of seven members in the
formal Government. Russia has gone
back exactly to that situation. And it
is to be hoped that the open revelation
of the new set-up does not presage the
same kind of great events which
followed the consolidation of the Stalin
regime by the ousting of all the
independent voices in the late nineteen-
twenties and nineteen-thirties.
Certainly it is being followed swiftly
by a shift of policy of which the signs
are only too clear. Comrade Bulganin,
who but a few days ago was still writ-
ing Notes for all he was worth, has
ceased to write, and instead Comrade
Khrushchev has begun to give inter-
views and to organise new shifts of
viewpoint. These are based on estima-
tions of the state of world opinion and
are intended to further the tactic of
divide-and-destroy which forms the
molten metal of Communist world-
policy.
The essential slogan of the new age,
of course, is the same as that of the old
even at its bloodiest: “Peace according
to the doctrine of Lenin and Stalin,”
which means peace obtained by the
ruin of the capitalist world. The mani-
festation of the increasingly ardent
desire for “peace” is the announcement
in the Supreme Soviet by Gromyko, the
Foreign Minister, that Russia “uni-
laterally” will cease to experiment with
nuclear weapons.
The fact that so important a move
should be announced by a subordinate
who is not a member of the inner circle
suggests that caution still rules in
Moscow; for it leaves the way for
Khrushchev to repudiate it.
The features which otherwise
surround it are normal. The announce-
ment comes at a moment when Russia
has finished making the “dirtiest” series
of nuclear-bom}) tests on record and
on the eve of large tests by the United
States. Thus it is designed to
embarrass the U.S. while doing what
the U.S.S.R. has just completed.
Of course, it has been hailed and
publicised by the capitalist press
throughout the world and it will be
hailed by the long-hairs of the uni-
versities whose proceedings and “ban-
the-bomb” referenda over the past few
months have no doubt helped to
encourage the Kremlin to the issue of
its handsome decision. It has
been treated seriously as something
vital and important by Dr. Evatt.
The contrast between the aspiration
and the reality has not yet been
properly stressed in the Western world.
If Khrushchev sincerely aims for,
peace and proposes the cessation of
atomic tests as the first step, then he is
putting the cart before the horse.
Nobody in the Western - defence
world looks upon the nuclear weapons
as anything other than a deterrent.
The world would recoil with horror
at the thought of using the bomb save
as a last resource. The real menace
which nuclear development in the West
is designed to prevent is attack by the
huge wave of Russian air-backed
ground - forces which exist both in
Russia and China and the immense
fleet of submarines which Russia
has at sea.
The establishment of the ring of
nuclear defence round the Russian
perimeter has made it almost certain
that land- or sea-based attack from
Russia would be halted ; and it is the
liquidation of these defences that con-
cerns the Russians most.
Nothing is said by them about
ground-forces. No invasion of Russia
could be made without huge ground-
forces in the West lengthily organised
and co-ordinated . under a single
command.
So far from developing these forces,
which would be absolutely vital in an
aggressive war, even with a vanguard
attack by nuclear weapons, the Western
Europeans are universally drawing-in
their horns and resisting military
expansion. The same tendency has
been seen in the United States. Britain
has begun the stripping of service-
installations all round the British Isles
and is cutting-down Army, Navy and
Air Force in numbers —the U.K. will
have under 90,000 regular troops in
little more than three years’ time.
There has been no major reduction
in Soviet Union forces—the reductions
in satellite countries seem to be repre-
sented merely by withdrawals into
Russia itself. Two-million Russian con-
scripts are called-up for training each
yeah In China, forces actually have
been increased in the last two years.
When Russia really comes along with
a major plan of land- and sea-force
reduction —the abolition of conscrip-
tion, as the United Kingdom is abolish-
ing it, or even the introduction of selec-
tive draft by ballot on the American
plan—then something real and tangible
will be in sight, especially if it is co-
ordinated with cessation of the building
of submarines, which are weapons of
aggression.
The mere ending of experimenting
which has gained its major objectives,
especially when it comes at the same
moment as the weird manoeuvrings
which have been taking place this week
in Moscow, designed to confuse and
divide the world, means next to nothing
at all.
What can the observer-at-large make
of a Government which in one and the
same week (a) announces that it will
cease nuclear experiment as a contri-
bution to world peace ; (b) closes all
the southern heavy industrial war-pro-
duction area to foreigners on sudden
notice ; (c) lectures the French on their
colonialism and holds-up the “British
in India” as an example to them and at
the same time praises De Gaulle, whom
the Communist Party of France is con-
temporaneously denouncing?


AN INEVITABLE QUESTION
“The Prime Minister, Mr. Menzies, told a large cricket-gathering that the world would he a better place if the United States an
Russia had been persuaded to play cricket. Dr. Evatt added that ‘if Mr. Menzies is willing to propose a match between Russia and the
United States I dare say we’ll get rid of the cold war.’”
“In this game yon ban the bodyline-bomb, yes?”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Canada's Commonwealth
Lead
The result of the Canadian elections
seems to have been somewhat of a shock,
even to Canadians who expected the
Diefen baker Government to win but
not to inflict so complete a defeat on
all its opponents.
At last week’s election the Liberals
under Mr. Lester Pearson, External
Affairs Minister for many years in
Liberal Administrations, president of
the United Nations Assembly and a
Nobel Peace Prize-winner, was reduced
;to a remnant of 47. The Socialists
emerged with only eight seats and with-
out a leader, against the 25 with which
they went to the poll. Social Credit,
which in 1957 won 19 seats, was wiped-
out. Diefenbaker has 209 seats.
These results are all the more remark-
able since the Socialists in the Saskatche-
wan Provincial Government have held
an absolute majority; Alberta is gov-
erned by Social Creditors, as is British
Columbia.-
The emotions of the Canadian people
rather than the actual issues, were the
deciding factors. The ostensible main
domestic issues were the rival methods
of dealing with growing unemployment,
Mr. Pearson advocating a tax-holiday
and other similar measures, and Mr.
Diefenbaker a programme of necessary
public and chiefly developmental works.
In the background there loomed the
issue of British Commonwealth co-opera-
tion and of the increasing attempts of
Washington to assunte the right to direct
Canadian international policy, which
recently led the Canadian Minister for
External Affairs to warn the Americans
that Canada was not a small South
American State but a great independent
nation.* - *
Resentment at the Liberal party’s
desertion of the U.K. and alignment
with the U.S.A. during the Suez incident,
and the constant aloofness of the Liberal
Government from Commonwealth
politics increased the general feeling.
The votes of the Middle West oil and
wheat States, normally Socialist or
Social Credit, were lost on the issue of
wheat- and grain-dumping by Uncte v
Sam to the detriment of Canadian trade
and by the restrictions imposed in the
U.S. on the import of Canadian oil and
on Mr. Diefenbaker’s localised develop-
ment plans.
Moreover, the overinvestment of
American capital in Canada has led to
a proprietorial attitude by American
business which has become a national
patriotic issue with Canadians, who are
ready to forget that it is this same
American overinvestment in their indus-
try which is mainly responsible for the
unique position of the Canadian dollar.
With a firm adherence to a policy of
Commonwealth co-operation and a
young and dynamic leader —-he has been
so little known internationally that his
name did not appear in English Who
Who in 1957 —it is conceivable that the
era of Canadian government to come
should have historic effects, not only on
Canadian but on world history, by,
cementing the ties between the U.K.,
Australia, Canada and New Zealand
along lines of united policy and a united
front.
The Hursey Story
The story of Frank Hursey and his son
Dennis gives a clear picture of the morals
of the Communist party and of the
A.L.P., not to mention unionism in
general and its defiance of the law in
Australia. It also in some aspects gives
a rrot-very-prepossessing picture of the
law as administered in Tasmania.
The Hurseys are members of the
Democratic Labor party. They also
have been members of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation. The W.W.F. made
a levy of 10s. a member for the campaign
funds of the Australian Labor party led
by Dr. Evatt. The Democratic Labor
party is a party which came into exist-
ence mainly because Dr. Evatt is leader
of the A.L.P. It hates and opposes
politically everything he and his party
stand for, especially the adherence to
Moscow" principles adopted at the Hobart
conference.
Yet the Communists, whom they and
every decent Australian loathe, and
A.L.P. members control the union which
they must join to gain their bread and
butter, and they declare that these have
illegally levied on them to support the
men to whom they are opposed.
This levy is entirely illegal. Because
they will not pay it, as is their legal
right, they have been ousted from the
union and their lawful right to work
has been taken from them.
The father, at an uproarious meeting
in Sydney at which the followers of
Communism tried to silence him, declared
that he had been submitted to every kind
of threat and physical intimidation. He
had offered to pay his union-dues with-
out the levy, he said, but was told that
he was “finished,” and his offer refused.
In Sydney, when Frank Hursey
spoke, he attracted a crowd, and howling
representatives of the W.W.F. and the
Communist party assailed him with
epithets such as “scab” and “traitor.”
Mr. Jim Healy, the Federal Secretary
of the W.W.F., spoke on another plat-
form, and made a brazen “explanation”
which was loudly and obediently cheered
by hundreds of his obedient yahoos—
they had been told to come and cheer,
and as “free” men they obediently came.
If the only kind of unionism avail-
able on the waterfront is that run by
these Communist tyrants, with no regard
for the normal rights of Australians and
an arrogant determination to make their
own laws, it would seem that non-
unionism might be better. The
country has put up too long with thug-
government in the unions and it is
about time that the Governments con-
cerned enforced the law —and used
reprisals against unions that break it—
and did not leave the matter to the
victims to be dealt with by civil action.
Uniformity on Uniforms
For years the word “uniform” in rela-
tion to taxation has automatically been
taken to refer to the Commonwealth-
States agreement for a single income-tax.
All of a sudden its significance has
changed; for the moment “uniform”
refers to a relatively minor item of
taxation procedure, but one which in
election year could swell into quite a
major issue.
Broadly the point at issue is whether
the cost of uniforms for children attend-
ing State schools should be an allowable
deduction for income-tax purposes.
Until a week ago it was deductible under
the amendment brought in five years ago
by the Menzies Government which allows
a taxpayer to claim as deductions
amounts expended in connection with the
The Miles Franklin Prize
By some utterly mysterious means Miles
Franklin, who never seemed to have
two-shillings to bless herself with,
accumulated enough money to bless
Australian literature with a prize of
£5OO, which has just been awarded to
Patrick White’s Voss.
The money, so the Permanent Trustee
Co. announced at the prize-giving cere-
mony, is enough to pay-out £5OO
annually for a few years to come ; per-
haps indefinitely if certain investments
can be rearranged.
The prize is a handsome one; and
if, like the Archibald Prize, the S. H.
Prior Prize and the Baylebridge Prize
for poetry (£5O), it seems to prove once
again that the only people in Australia
who really care for the arts are those
who practise or publish them, nobody
who wins it is going to worry very much
about that; but will, on the contrary,
be very pleased to see Miles Franklin’s
brilliant career thus brilliantly
continuing.
The occasion was considered import-
ant enough to 4 r aw both Mr. Menzies
and Dr. Evatt along: the Prime
Minister to present the award and talk
about the maturing of Australian cul-
ture ; Dr. Evatt to say he had read Voss
(and enjoyed it) in a plane flying to
Perth ; and both of them, on one of the
stickiest days Sydney has ever produced,
to sit cooking under the glaring lights
for TV—in less robust countries this is
recognised as a form of torture, but here
politicians are presumed to enjoy it.
Voss, controversial though it may be,
was an excellent choice for the award:
it was unquestionably the book of the
year.
And the method of making the award
is also excellent, and very different from
all these humiliating art-competitions in
which painters are, expected to tout their
works all over the country. The pub-
lishers submit published books; the
judges pick the best; and if no novel
is suitable the prize may go to a play.


education of a child, up to a maximum of
£IOO.
Last week the Taxation Board of
Review rejected the appeal of a Mel-
bourne accountant against the Taxation
Department’s disallowance of a claim he
had made for a tax-deduction for the
cost of school-uniforms worn by his two
daughters who were attending a Victorian
State school. The board’s decision
stated that the deductions were allowable
only on items which related solely to a
child’s education. Where a uniform was
compulsory the cost was deductible;
where there was no insistence then the
cost could not be said to be necessarily
incurred.
The effect of this is that the cost of
uniforms of children attending private
schools and colleges is deductible, but
the cost of uniforms for those attending
State schools is not. This may be correct
from a strictly legal point of view, but it
doesn’t rate very high on the score of
commonsense. State schools have no
actual power to make a uniform com-
pulsory, but in most Government
secondary schools in N.S.W. the moral
pressure doesn’t fall far short of com-
pulsion. Moreover, in N.S.W. the Deputy
Commissioner of Taxation has made no
bones about allowing the deductions.
This seems to be an instance of the
board’s taking too narrow a view on the
Act. If it applied the same stringent test
to other items under the same heading it
should disallow fares to and from school
on the grounds that they weren’t
“necessarily” incurred, because the child
was healthy and could have walked ; or
the cost of books because the child could
have borrowed them from someone else.
Generally speaking the Taxation
Department has taken a broad view on
education-deductions, presumably with
Government approval. If the board’s
decision is to be binding on the depart-
ment, then Sir Arthur Fadden would be
wise to see that his Budget tidies-up the
position and makes the law conform to
what has become practice. If he doesn’t,
he can be sure the Doc. will be only too
willing to undertake to do it for him.
Postal Service
[By “Ex-ACT”]
Members of the public, and especially
the business community, are suffering at
present from an unpublicised but
effective “go-slow” tactic cn the mail
side of the postal department, as a pro-
test against recent changes and especially
the increasing amount of mechanisation
in mail-handling in the sorting-sections.
The public, which pays and suffers,
seems to be the last consideration in this
argument. There is no attempt at public
explanation and no sympathy when com-
plaint is made about loss or incon-
venience when mail is late. Even the fact
that letters posted in the city often take
two days to reach a suburb is ignored,
and submission of an envelope is
followed by a bland statement, weeks
later, that the cause of delay “cannot be
ascertained.”
The postal-workers who are assisting
in this shabby trick on a heavily-charged
public are, of course, penalising pen-
sioners and many others. Family mails
of great personal significance are delayed,
jobs are lost, all kinds of upsets and in-
conveniences occur. If the sorters and
postmen have grievances, why can’t
they be men enough to declare them
publicly and take them to the tribunal
established at high cost to consider
them?
Whipping for Two
Since Mr. Justice Hudson ordered- a
whipping of 12 strokes each for William
O’MealLy, a 37-years-old murderer and
thug, and John Taylor, 27, a gunman,
for the wounding of a warder at Pent-
ridge (Vic.) on March 27, 1957, successive
appeals by the prisoners against the
sentence have failed —the last was
rejected by the High Court. But in
addition to the small organisations
which would inevitably rise in protest,
opposition included the Parliamentary
Labor party and all the major churches,
led by the numerically important Angli-
cans and Roman Catholics, and some
of the Melbourne dailies.
Against this opposition the Bolte-
Rylah Cabinet stood firm, and the two
criminals were whipped at Pentridge as
ordered by the judge, a year and four
days after their latest crime.
Much of the criticism raised in this
interval was answered by the judge, who
had remanded them for medical examina-
tion to determine whether a whipping
would be injurious to their health, an
examination which the crafty criminals
declined to undergo. He pointed-out
that an additional term of imprisonment
alone would be farcical in O’Meally’s
case since he was serving a term for
life, while the mere prospect of addi-
tional imprisonment at the end of his
current 10-years term would hardly be
sufficient deterrent in Taylor’s case.
The judge had no option except to
order a whipping if he was concerned
about the protection of warders, and,
as he pointed-out, ensuring that warders
did not ipipose their own punishments
on prisoners if they felt the courts would
let them down. The 12 strokes, how-
ever, was the maximum which could
be ordered under the Crimes Act at one
time. The ultimate permitted is 12
strokes on three occasions.
Many questioned whether it was a
futile act, whatever its outcome, since
all other punishments, including solitary
confinement, had been tried. John Gal-
bally, the men’s able and astute legal
representative, who exhausted all legal
and political channels in their behalf as
their barrister and as Labor leader in
the Legislative Council, claimed, in fact,
that so much solitary confinement had
been inflicted on O’Meally that he had
become mentally ill.
There was a good deal of agreement
that flogging is, in fact, a retrograde
step, but those who favored it, including
the Cabinet, believed that the com-
munity Itself could take no more back-
ward steps since its back in relation
to the two convicts was now against the
yvalL
As far as the general public was con-
cerned, their apathy made it clear that,
aside from the earnest dilettantes in
penal reform, most people were con-
vinced that the punishment should be
tried and any sympathy in the matter
reserved for the warders.
Guests of Sedition
It would be natural if the Communists
were indignant at the refusal of the
Commonwealth Government to admit
two Chinese delegates, Comrades An Tse-
wen and Ling Tang, who had been
invited to take part in the 18th Congress
of the Communist party of Australia ;
but that the A.C.T.L). should back-up the
party in its demands is a staggering
testimony to the irresponsibility of
Australian union-leadership.
Mr. Albert Monk is reported to have
said that “while the A.C.T.L. was not
responsible for the invitation or in any
way associated with the Communist
party, it nevertheless strongly objected
to the arbitrary decision refusing visas” ;
also, that “the A.C.T.U. contended that
Australian nationals or the nationals of
other countries should have the right of
ingress or egress.” He contrasted the
granting of the visas to Baron Krupp and
the Japanese Prime Minister with the
refusal of permission to the Chinese to
come.
This is an odd outlook on the part of
the president of a body which professes
to voice the views of Australian unionism.
With both Germany and Japan we dre
at peace, whatever may have happened
in the past. The aspirations of their
Governments are now avowedly peaceful,
and Australian citizens may travel freely
to and through them without other-than-
normal checks and regulations applying
in civilised countries.
China, on the other hand, is not on
friendly terms with Australia. Aus-
tralian citizens have none of the normal
facilities for travel in the country. If
they go there it is as invited guests and
for the malign political purposes of those
who invite them. As guests they are also
prisoners, without freedom ol movement
or any rights in international law, once
they step onto Chinese soil.
The policy of Communist China both
as to objectives and methods was clearly
set-out in a series of documents by Mao
Tse-tung as far back as 1953.
It envisages world revolutions “out of
the mouth of the gun.” It is inimical to
everything Australia! stands for, and its
rule has been attained and maintained
by wholesale massacre of those Chinese
who have claimed the right of freedom
of thought and way of life.
The two delegates have been invited by
a subversive organisation which is afraid
to keep books and which has been caught
out more than once trying to undermine
Australian security and co-operating with
the Russian spy-system.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
'T'OURING, they were on the lookout
for a suitable eating-place; one
of the boys suddenly shouted, “There you
are, Dad. There’s a place that ought to
do. The notice says ‘Tea and girls at all
hours’.” Inside, Dad studied the menu
hopefully ; no femmes. But the grills
were good-oh.—“Sunray”
4+4 . 4+4 4+4
“Kalang”: The Press hasn’t been told
yet of all the Sydney Show records that
have been smashed this year. Take free
rulers ; my son got six the first Saturday
this year as against only two last year
(only 10 for all last year’s Show); and
on the same first Saturday managed 30
notebooks (12 last year), 41 A.P.C.-
powders, 251 blotters (assorted) and 500
pocket-calendars. He feels he will have
to improve his blotter-technique ; one of
his friends managed 2000 blotters on the
one day, which is generally conceded to
be an all-time Show record.
4+4 4*4 4+4
“Joanne”: Crossing Sydney’s Harbor
Bridge the other day I saw a Labrador-
type pup on the pillion-seat of a motor-
cycle speeding along in the peak-hour
traffic.
+J+ <♦ *X*
“Kate”: It was a glorious autumn day,
and Collins Street was throbbing with
lunch - hour crowds when first I.
noticed him. I suppose he’d be m his
middle-thirties and was extremely well-
dressed. But what took my eye more
than his six-feet of handsome manliness
was his hat, which he carried in his
hand. Folded inside the hat, unwrapped,
was a white, nylon, boneless, woman’s
corset; as he swung along with a jaunty
step the suspenders daintily went swish,
swish, swish in perfect time With the
tune he was whistling.
4*4 4*4 4*4
“P.C.M.”: The bit about un-
authorised signs on cars (B. 19/3/’5B)
reminds me of the suburban-railway
strike in London in 1919, when army
motor-lorries were lent to the bus services
and a bus-load of girls bound for a
Government office was greeted with
loud cheers all the way through South
London suburbs. Under the familiar
“W.D.” brand had been painted
“Supply of Comforts for troops at Army
Headquarters.”
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Lorna Doone”: “Van’s” mention of
travelling home for the always-too-short
school - holidays reminds me of my
young - hopeful nephews. Going to
Broken Hill this Easter there was choice
of two air-services, one direct, and the
other the same journey in a longer tour. 1
was told they intended going up by the
direct route, and returning by the other.
. . . “Whatever for?” I asked. “Oh,
well,” replied one of the 13-year-
old sages, “the direct route always leaves
on time, and so we won’t have to wait-
over at school; but coming back, if the
other service is late arriving in the Hill,
we’ll have more time at home, or [hope-
fully] perhaps it won’t even come at ally*
♦ ♦ ❖
“Sister Ellell”: “M’Lou’s” remark
about loss of one’s pearlies reminds me
that there is no more favored spot for
endless stories about that than a large
general hospital. The new probationer
who put a set on to boil, a good clean
being long overdue . . . The disgrace of
sending a patient to the operating-theatre
without removing same and being
told-off by the theatre Sister for good
measure. Then, with the last offices
commenced, not being able to locate ’em,
and the need to have ’em in situ quickly.
One large medical ward had a drawer
full of discards ; been there from time
immemorial, I should think. In those
over-busy days I remember only once
having time to spare, and this we
employed trying to match the uppers ’n
lowers!
4*4 4*4 4*4
“N.A.8.”: They’ve erected a sign on
a new building alongside the N.S.W. Egg
Marketing Board’s premises in Darby
Street, Newcastle: “Squash.”
<s* <s* ►!+
"OERNARD Shaw’s estate has in two
years collected £160,000 in royalties
from the Broadway musicabcomedy
success “My Fair Lady,” which is based
on Shaw’s “Pygmalion.” But on the
same score Liberace collected nothing
but a court-injunction.—“Bicky.”
“Will you be my wives?"
NO VARIETY
“‘Law is full*of variety .... As far as I
can see from six days in Canberra, there is
not much variety there,’ said Sir Garfield
Barwick, Q.C., replying to a suggestion that
he had become M.H.R. for Parramatta for the
sake of variety.”
The Canherra-types Sir Garfield saw
Occasioned him a certain shock :
Familiar to the man-of-law
Except, of course, outside the dock,
They seem to lack variety,
Predictable in all their phase $ —
No learned judge misquotes their plea,
No jury muddles-up their cases —
Yet seekers of the various may
Observe a trick of law they borrow :
How to be on one side today,
And on the other side tomorrow.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


T ike banks (B. 5/3/’5B), insurance-
JL offices aren’t always gloomy
places. A lad in one life-office looked
on a sweet young thing in the same
department as. a good risk. Seeing her
enter the strongroom, he followed her.
As soon as he was safely inside, some of
his friends closed the door. Half-an-hour
later when the door was opened the first
to emerge was the actuary-manager.—
“Egner.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Keyovadee”: Our old office-worker,
koala-bear type, found a sympathetic
audience in the new girl: “Had an
ulcerated stomach once. Cured it.
Fresh hot bread-and-butter with beer
every day. Had to persevere with it.
Don’t need the bread-and-butter now!”
iff
“Fontaine”: An outdoor art-show
as part of Melbourne’s Moomba celebra-
tions included two paintings titled “Egg
Board” and “Milk Board.” They were of
the ultra-modern variety, which of course,
made their titles paradoxical. But they
weren’t overpriced; they were marked
“Not For Sale.”
“Stanlow”: Saw a group of school-
cadets the other morning; resplendent in
new uniforms, three of them attracted
much attention as they strolled down
the street, stopping now and then to
rewind their yo-yo’s, which they had been
casting in every direction. Is this a new
metnod of teaching eye-and-muscle co-
ordination?
❖ ♦♦♦ ***
“Fons”: Distorting the meaning of
public notices by deleting a word or
letter is not, of course, very original,
but I was charmed to see this advice to
the travel-weary in a Wynyard train:
“Please do not talk to the river.”
❖ ♦> *
“Tom Trout”: Italy the land of song?
Maybe I was unlucky, but getting no
" Musquash, my eye! She gives me myxomatosis whenever Igo near her!”
further south than Rome, the songs I
heard came from juke-boxes, mostly
belting-out American hits on the pave-
ments outside bars. Austria was the
place where the people sang, not content
with just listening to professionals, but
lifting the restaurant-roofs with their
own mellifluous efforts, spiced with the
tang of local wine or beer. Very
digestion-improving, I’m sure; and,
miraculously, they kept good pitch.
*** ♦♦♦
“Dandy Dick”: Went into an Olde
Worlde Tea Shoppe in Penzance, Corn-
wall, to find it was run by an Australian
ex-naval type ; he lounged into the dining-
room, leaned against the doorway, and
shouted, “Anyone want any more hot
water? Better ask for it while I’m in the
mood.”
❖ *> *>
“Croid”: “You know how fond of
music I am,” she said. “Well, I met a
man the other night who teaches the
piano at the Conservatorium. I told him
my favorite piece was ‘Tickle the Ivories’
and I hoped to hear him play it some time.
Do you know —he’d never even heard
of it!”
“Eureka”: In a Sydney shop-window
there’s a sign “English Pork Pies—kept
on ice.” I wonder whether the pork-pies
are imported from England or whether
the pork is imported and the pies made
here, and is the imported pork-pie or
pork kept on ice from the time of leaving
the Old Country? Apparently it’s a
trade secret, but it could explain why
my morning pie is often cooler than a
cucumber.
❖ ❖ *i*
“Macleigh”: Old George never lost
his A.I.F. vocabulary, and as a member
of the staff bowling-club he was noted
■for his loud and pungent comments on
any member of his rink who failed to
come up to requirements. Retiring, he
joined the rather posh club near his
home, but inside two months was back
playing at the Works, in spite of the
travelling involved. Inquiries brought
from him only some muttered grunts
on clubs which admitted women. But the
story came out. Skip of a mixed-four
one afternoon, he had called for his third
OUT—AND IN
“The detective said in evidence that while
in among the crowd he felt his pocket being
picked. When he arrested him accused said:
‘lt was a clean catch.’ Guilty. Sentence, six
months.”— Court report.
Though it “wasn’t quite cricket,”
He felt on that wicket
His score could be high ;
For him no abjurement
Of loose stuff’s allurement —
It really was “pie” !
The field he looked over;
He’d be in real clover.
The more that they bumped
The greater his pleasure.
He’d soon have their measure ;
He wouldn’t be stumped !
The risks minimising,
With confidence rising
He tried a few “dips” ;
Hardheads would have scorned him ;
His nous should have warned him
To watch out for slips.
His stance he soon shifted;
The slow ones he lifted —
So eafy to pick.
Getting bold, then, he went for
A big swipe. Lament ! For
He picked on a Dick !
He’d not done so well, for
The poor Alec fell for
A pretty smart catch.
With his score-total nix, sir,
He’s socked for a sixer.
A very poor match.
This he’s learned: Unlike cricket,
“Dips” are on a poor wicket;
Too many the tricks.
Picking wrong ’uns is easy.
It s that makes those breezy
Who dip into “kicks” !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


to trail the jack over to count three shots.
The bowl looked a beauty as it came
along—George called out, “Your blood’s
worth bottling.” Then, as it knocked
Katy aside to an enemy bowl, he let
loose with a verbal tirade ripe enough to
make a bullocky jealous.
♦J4 ♦> *>
“Uramao”: Close collaboration of
New Zealand with the United States
has brought her, besides some millions of
dollars, two silver coins that were being
handed around some 550 years B.C.
Issued by Croesus, King of Lydia, of one-
and two-stater denomination and believed
to be the oldest coins in New Zealand,
they will go to swell the already extensive
coin-collection in the Otago Museum
(Dunedin) ; for not only is it proper for
a Dunedinite to have the first shilling he
ever made, but also some of the earliest
shillings anyone ever made.
❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: Private Elvis . Presley
mightn’t make a picture, in kilts (B.
26/3/’5B), but, in view of Hollywood’s
mania (abetted by the Services) for Army-
Navy-Air Force musicals, he could m4ke
one in the U.S. Army’s new green uni-
form. Perhaps that’s what W.A.C.
Lieut.-Colonel Maggie Schulten meant
when she told reporters: “We hope to
add a new talent to this young man’s
entertainment-ability.” I offer a title in
advance —“Reveille Rock ’n’ Roll-call.”
❖ *> *>
“Judee”: At Bondi: a worthy burgher
outside his home talking to a neighbor ;
his wife struggling home laden with
bargain-sale buys from Sydney. Bondi
burgher: “It’s amazing what my wife
would rather have than money.”
a +*♦
“Ceg”: Colonel “Plevna” Ryan (B.
5/2/’5B) was a color-photography addict.
"Academic!"
Hearing that the rhododendrons at Cob-
ham Hall, Kent, a convalescent hospital
for Aussies, were a sight for sore eyes, he
went down from London with his
camera. I was at the Sole Street, Kent,
railway-station when the old boy was
waiting to go back to town ;
Ryan was busy talking to
someone and didn’t notice that
his gear had been loaded into
a Chatham-bound train. He
woke-up as the train steamed
out. Waving his stick aloft and
crying “Stop that train! I’m
Colonel Ryan! ” he sprinted
off down the line after it. Pull-
ing his rank proved fruitless ;
he was left puffing and blowing well
down the line while his precious photo-
graphs flashed off to Chatham.
❖ »> / . *s*
“Montrose”: The Silent Service has
nothing on Mildura’s cops. A
noisy N.A. who wanted to fight all in
sight was ejected from one of its pubs.
The town cop, who seemed to arrive from
nowhere, took his arm friendly-like ; then
out of the pub poured a mob of his
cobbers. Simultaneously a police patrol-
wagon pulled up and disgorged six
stalwarts . . . No noise, no fuss —just an
irresistible force. A sizeable bunch of
N.A. grapepickers made the lock-up ring
for hours with their comments on this
democratic efficiency.
*** *** ***
“Bagot”: R.A.A.F. advertisement in
my daily pictured a group of blokes in
sparkling white uniforms and chefs’ caps
listening intently to an instructor demon-
strating luscious and exotic viands.
Underneath was a four-column spread:
“Be an accomplished chef! Graduate
after six months’ specialist training.” I
thought of my friend Tony, chef at a
big Perth hotel, who told me that he
started as a kitchen-boy in Milan 30
“Please allow a mere gatecrasher
to compliment you on a wonderful
party .”
years ago and still had much to learn.
And I thought of my old mother, who
admitted that it took her five years to
learn how to cook and serve the perfect
Cornish pastie. Then I remembered the
greasy stews which ruined my stomach in
World War 11, and I considered that if
Army cooks could merely wn-learn the
old techniques in six months, that would
be enough.
♦5 ***
“J.J.A.”: Apparently the Australian
language has pitfalls for speakers eager
to seem at home. Our church has a
newly arrived Canadian minister; the
heat one Saturday night making him feel
a little crook, he decided to apologise to
the congregation for his inadequate
sermon next morning by saying he had
been “under the weather” the previous
night. Mentioning it to a friend first
prevented a special board-meeting and a
search for a new minister.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“W.M.”: Two weeks past her six-
teenth birthday, she is enthusiastic about
her new make-up: “It’ll cover up spots
and blemishes, and the girl behind the
counter says if I use it under my eyes
it’ll hide the shadows and make me look
fresh.”
♦> ♦> *+♦
“C.W.S.”: “Hold this,” she hissed to
her husband and pushed a parcel into his
arms. “Want a penny?” he muttered.
“What do you think I could do for a
penny these days?” she snorted and
scuttled into the little building.


The Story of an Encyclopaedia
By BRUCE PRATT
(General Editor of “The
Australian Encyclopaedia”)
MORE than three-
quarters of a century
ago —in February,
1882 —a young Scots-
man, George Robertson by
name, landed in Sydney after
a voyage from New Zealand,
with a wife at his side, no pros-
pects of a job, and ten shillings
and a penny in his pocket.
This entirely unnoticed
happening was not without its
significance, for as things
turned out it was the first link
in a long chain of events which
ultimately led to the most
important undertaking in Aus-
tralia’s publishing history—the
production of a ten-volume
encyclopaedia dealing entirely
with the Commonwealth of
Australia and its territories.
George Robertson wasn’t
without work for long. He had
had some bookselling training
in Edinburgh, and within a
few days he was given a job
in a Sydney bookshop, owned
strangely enough, by a man Of
the same name as himself.
Four years later, in 1886,
George Robertson joined David
Angus to form the firm of
Angus and Robertson, book-
sellers and, later, publishers.
The business flourished, and
Robertson conceived the idea
of producing an encyclopaedia
dealing only with Australia, not
with the aim of making money,
but of showing his gratitude to
the country that had treated
him well. In the early years of
the century this was a bold con-
ception, worthy of the man, for
at that time there were
few Australian works of
reference on which to base
an encyclopaedia. ■
Work on the encyclopaedia
began in 1912 under the editor-
ship of Charles H. Bertie, at the
time Municipal Librarian in
Sydney. World War I brought
the work to a stop, and it was
not resumed until 1917. In
1920 Arthur Jose undertook
the general editorship. By that
time many of the original
articles were out of date and
had to be rewritten.
Jose went to London before
the first volume went to
press, and George Robertson
was left with an unfinished
encyclopaedia on his hands.
With his characteristic dogged-
ness he carried on with the
task, often working late into
the night after a day’s work in
the s h°p; checking, writing,
editing. At last, in 1925,
13 years after the first
step, the first of the two
volumes of the encyclopaedia
appeared.
One of the contributors to
the encyclopaedia was —to
quote the relevant entry in the
list of contributors
“Alexander Hugh Chisholm,
C.F.A.0.U., author of Mate-
ship with Birds.” Chisholm’s
versatility is shown by the
articles he wrote —articles on
natural history, wild white men
(a discussion of white men
who threw in their lot with
the natives), and two-up.
His association with the
encyclopaedia was an important
link in the chain, for in 1948
Walter Cousins, then chairman
of directors of Apgus'' and
Robertson, asked Alec
Chisholm to undertake the
compilation of a new Aus-
tralian Encyclopcedia.
Since the appearance of the
first encyclopaedia much had
happened in Australia. The
cou n t r y’s population had
increased by nearly 50 per
cent. ; new industries had been
established; many important
developmental works had been
undertaken; a second world
war had been fought; and the
pattern of life of the people
had largely changed. A work
of reference including all these
changes was no light task.
The position was made the
more difficult because the first
encyclopredia contained little of
the geography of Australia.
Apart from entries on the
States and their capital cities,
a few other towns of some
importance, and a scholarly
contribution by Griffith Taylor
on the country’s economic
geography, this branch of
knowledge was neglected. The
plan to make the new
encyclopaedia thoroughly com-
prehensive meant a vast amount
of entirely new work.
Alec Chisholm tackled the
project in 1949 and gradually
assembled an editorial staff.
This in itself wasn’t easy. It
was soon found that
reputation was an unreliable
guide to a person’s suitability
for encyclopaedia work, and a
trial-and-error system gradually
evolved. As it turned out, there
were nearly as many errors
as trials.
One lass joined-up (so she
revealed when she was leaving)
purely with the intention of
absorbing enough knowledge
of Australia to enter and win
an Australiana quiz - show.
Unfortunately her basic know-
ledge left so much to
be absorbed that the
Encyclopcedia had to dispense
with her services after a very
brief time.
Another member, a scion of
a notable family, weathered the
encyclopaedic seas for some
time by his charm of manner
Illustration from the
Encyclopaedia
WITCHETY GRUB- pupa, female
moth, larva.
rather than by his ability. Ulti-
mately, however, after a more-
than-usually bad mistake, he
was summoned before the
editor-in-chief.
“Harry,” demanded the
chief, with his well-known
glower, “did you ever go to
school?”
“Yes, Mr. Chisholm, of
course! ”
“Did you ever learn any-
thing there, Harry?”
“Not more than I could help,
chief!” replied the culprit
with his customary disarming
smile.
The glower disappeared—
but, a few days later, so did
Harry.
The chief cause of failure,
however, was a sheer inability
to conform to the mental
discipline that is essential in the
preparation of an authorita-
tive work of reference. The
team that finally did the major
part of the work, in addition
to the editor-in-chief and the
general editor, consisted of
Alec Bolton, assistant editor of
“Southerly”; David Moore, a
graduate of Cambridge ; Henry
Mund, a New Australian from
Poland who formerly was editor
of the Dictionary of Printing
and Allied Trades, London;
Janet Bennett, Rosemary Dun-
lop, Robin Pratt —all graduates
of Sydney University; Jose-
phine Mayo, who drew all the
maps in the Encyclopcedia, and
Joyce Cocks, who was largely
responsible for the checking of
the text. Much help was given
by associated advisers such as
James Jervis of the Royal Aus-
tralian Historical Society, Judge
J. A. Ferguson, and Charles
Meeking.
After eight years of con-
centrated organizing, writing,
checking and editing, Alec
Chisholm and his team have
produced the nine text volumes
of the Encyclopcedia. The
tenth volume, given mainly to
an index of some 40,000 entries,
is nearing completion, and the
ten-volume set will then be
available.
The nine text-volumes con-
tain more than 6000 articles,
comprising 2200 biographies,
1600 natural-history items,
1400 geographical items and
about 900 others. The “others 5 ’
include articles on industries,
crops, sport, folklore, history,
religious denominations,
political parties, social organiza-
tions and the like.
The Encyclopcedia is
generously illustrated through-
out. There are 56 color-plates,
eight color-maps, about 2&0
black : and-white maps, 300
line-drawings, and more than
1600 photographic illustrations.
The assembling of all this
material and the presenting of
it as an alphabetical work of
' reference made a formidable
undertaking. More than 380
contributors, each an authority
in his own field, had to be
commissioned to write articles
or groups of articles. Often
their authority was more in
evidence than their reliability.
Some promised to supply con-
tributions and then forgot all
about them ; some departed for
distant shores, without saying
goodbye, leaving their work
half-done; others looked on
the Encyclopcedia as a medium
of propaganda and shaped
their writing accordingly.
The original contributor on
art, for instance, wrote a
withering denunciation of
(Continued on page 32)


POLITICAL POINTS
Queensland Labor M.L.A.s will meet
next Monday to choose a new leader in
succession to the late L. A. Wood. The
choice may be for a temporary leader
pending the result of the Flinders and
North Toowoomba by-elections. Frank
Forde was considered a strong possibility
for leader when John Duggan lost his
seat last year, but in the later stages of
the count the tide turned against him and
he lost Flinders by one vote. On appeal
the election was declared void and
Frankie gets his second chance on May 3.
No date has been fixed for the North
Toowoomba by-election, but it is
probable that Duggan will be the A.L.P.
candidate.
• •
Tipsters had predicted that the
Canadian Conservatives would have a
clear majority after the March 31
election, but even Prime Minister
Diefenbaker must have been surprised
at the dimensions of his victory. A year
ago the Conservatives 49 seats in
the Canadian House of 'Commons and
had been out of office 22 years. At the
election last June they increased their
tally to 113 while the Liberal numbers
fell from 168 to 106, the rest of the
House being composed of 25 Socialists,
19 Social Credit members and three
Independents.
In the latest poll electors responded
to Diefenbaker’s appeal for a clear
majority by giving him the largest number
of followers in the history of the
Canadian Parliament. The new Parlia-
ment will consist of 209 Conservatives,
47 Liberals and eight Socialists. The
Liberals thus hold two seats fewer than
the Conservatives held a year ago, having
lost 123 seats in the two elections.
Diefenbaker’s party has in less than 12
months gained 123 seats from the
Liberals, reduced the Socialist tally from
23 to eight and completely wiped-out the
Social Credit representation. Even the
Independents have been eliminated in
the course of building-up the massive
tally of 209 in a total House of 265.
• •
The Ansett-Commonwealth Railways
“pick-a-back” service between Sydney
and Perth was inaugurated last week. A
six-ton steel pantechnicon operated by
Ansett Road Express, Ltd., carries goods
by road from Sydney to Port Augusta
where it is driven on to a flat-top railway-
truck. The prime-mover is then unhitched
and goes about its business. At
Kalgoorlie another prime-mover takes
the pantechnicon off the truck and road-
hauls it to Perth.
Japan is attempting mass-production
of a new food made from algae arti-
ficially cultivated in specially constructed
ponds. Known as chlorela, the new
food will be available in two forms,
powdered and liquid. The research
institute in charge of the project claims
that 25 grammes of chlorela are equal
in nutritional content to “1£ bottles of
milk, 1.2 eggs and 25 grammes of roast
beef.” The claim may be justified, but
it sounds mighty like the advertisements
for a well-known breakfast cereal.
• •
Tasmanian Labor has patched-up the
squabble that threatened to send the Cos-
grove Government to the country.
Treasurer Turnbull, who had been asked
to resign as a result of his disagreement
with Attorney-General Fagan, will. not
now be required to resign ; there will be
no royal commission into circumstances
surrounding an alleged offer by over-
seas interests to buy the licence of the
Drysdale lotteries; Turnbull has with-
drawn “any reflection he might have
made on Fagan’s integrity”; the papers
relative to the offer will be tabled when
Parliament meets next month.
• •
In articles distributed by the U.N. for
World Health Day (April 7), many
doctors have discussed the progress of
the fights against disease, malnutrition
and ignorance. One doctor, however,
has struck a rather sour note in the
general thanksgiving. Dr. H. van Zile
Hyde, discussing what he terms “chemi-
cal miasma,” has pointed-out that man
takes huge amounts of inorganic
chemicals in self-medication. Each year
there are produced in one country alone,
he says, 800,0001 b. of a single sleeping-
drug and more than 60,0001 b. of an
awakener, as well as 14 million lh. of
aspirin. At the same time, people who
don’t appear to be happy either asleep
or entirely awake are now taking tran-
quillising-drugs to keep them in between.
• •
“Stromlo”: When External Affairs
Minister Casey reminded the Seato con-
ference in Manila that the objective of
the organisation was to safeguard the
independence of all the countries of
the region whether they were mem-
bers or not, he added a picturesque'
warning 'on Communist subversion,
which he said was like a deadly snake
in a dark room. Seato was “turning on
the light.” The man in the room still
had the chance to kill the snake for
himself, but he had a much better
chance of doing so when he could see it.
• •
Addressing an Adelaide audience,
Douglas Copland said that at the present
rate of expansion Australia’s population
would increase by a quarter in the next
10 years, which would mean a 35 per
cent, increase in the work-force and a
50 per cent, increase in the 20-28 age-
group, the section in which most
marriages occurred. This would demand
a great expansion of housing, schools,
hospitals, roads and other services.
Within 20 years the population would
reach 20 million. He anticipated great
development of industrial resources and
increased output of primary products
through the application of science.
In Copland’s view a rapidly developing
country like Australia “cannot have—
and should not want —stability.” If the
choice is to be between stability and
development, “I say there is only one
choice—development.”
• . •
It isn’t so long since the Victorian
police made do with two Lancia
Lambdas. Last year the use of “private
cajs on official duties” cost £103,000,
an increase of £5OOO on the previous
year, so despite all the criticism of the
cost of State cars, one Government
department alone has put up its motor-
bill by £lOO a week. In three years the
force’s motorbikes have jumped in
number from 86 to 155, and trucks and
vans from 64 to 76.
• •
Telling American unionists to “face
the facts,” the president of the A.F.L.-
C. 1.0., George Meany, says America’s
number-one job is to strengthen the
nation. America must become, he
believes, stronger militarily, economically,
socially and in every other way. When
the life of the country is at stake there
is neither room nor time for seeking
partisan political advantages or for per-
mitting narrow group-interests to deter-
mine the nation’s policies. Listening,
A.C.T.U. and Federal A.L.P.?
• •
Frank Roberts, former Lord Mayor
of Brisbane, has been welcomed back to
the A.L.P. fold after more than four
years in the wilderness. In August, 1953,
when he was Lord Mayor and M.L.A.
for Nundah, he refused to accept a
Q.C.E. direction to rescind an increase
in aldermen’s salaries, and resigned from
the party. Previous applications for
readmission were rejected, but the execu-
tive has now agreed to let bygones be
bygones.
• •
“B. of L.”: Shipping-freights present
curious problems. A good many people
would be interested to learn why, in
the present necessity for N. S. Wales
to import wheat from other States and
from abroad, it costs more to ship wheat
from Geelong (Vic.) to Sydney than it
does from Canada to Sydney. The
ships from Canada usually have to make
the return-trip in ballast, but they still
charge less for the trans-Pacific trans-
port than is paid for the two-day run
from Victoria.


Cahill sailed for America on Saturday.
For the next four months complaints
about the Landlord and Tenant Act,
jackpot totes, equal pay for gals, railway-
freights on beer, conditions in jails and
arguments for and against the R.S.P.C.A.
may be addressed to Acting Premier
Heffron.
• •
Victoria is the only State which has
not banned live-bird trap-shooting,
probably because the shooters are
numerous, articulate and active in defend-
ing their pastime, and the Libs, have
decided “for the sake of party harmony”
not to support a private Labor bill to
ban it. Not to mention votes at next
month’s election.
• •
For years the N. S. Wales Government
has seemed impervious' to criticism on
the score of its encouragement of
gambling. Bigger and better lotteries, art-
unions galore, licensed poker-machines
and jackpot totes have earned it the
name of the Gambling Government, but
nary a Minister has seemed to care. Now,
for some reason, the tide appears to
have turned. The next big Opera House
lottery has been postponed indefinitely ;
there has been a clamping-down on new
permits for “lucky-envelope” sales ; and
there’s talk of putting a brake on poker-
machines.
It’s the last of these that is arousing
most interest. Ministers coyly decline to
confirm or deny the story, but one
prominent Labor M.L.A. is advocating a
complete ban on 2s. machines. It is
undoubtedly these sudden-death bandits
that play havoc with the pay-envelopes ;
the sixpenny machines are more in the
fun-and-games class, though even their
appetites are pretty voracious. But the big
question is, Who’s pushing whom? Are
the Cahills trying to appease the anti-
gambling vote or the liquor trade? It
is only a few weeks since the U.L.V.A.
published its survey on pubs and clubs
and so forth, in which is complained
bitterly of the effect of poker-machines in
licensed clubs.
• •
Dr. E. Cunningham Dax, Victorian
Director of Mental Hygiene, has had
another of his refreshing yet sound
thoughts: that part—not less than 5
per cent., he says—of the enormous
amount of money the Government gets
from the excise-tax on liquor should be
allocated to the treatment of alcoholics
and the prevention of alcoholism.
• •
Communist Jim Healy says the reason
the two Hurseys were expelled from the
Waterside Workers’ Federation is that
mey didn’t pay their union fees last year.
The Hurseys say they tendered the
money, less the 10s. levy for A.L.P. funds,
but were told it could not be accepted
unless the levy was paid. Is this the
official trade-union attitude that
Political levies are more important than
union fees?
It is not disputed that the two men
were willing to pay their fees, so no
matter what Healy may say, they have
clearly been hounded off the Hobart
wharves because they are not willing to
pay the levy. Why are all those Labor
champions of human rights—Evatt,
Ward, Haylen, Cameron and the rest —
silent on this matter? Is it that D.L.P.
members haven t any rights?
• #
Commonwealth Statistician Carver
collects and publishes statistics, leaving
to others the job of converting them
into news-stories. Last week he released
his latest, batch of birth statistics. Sydney
Herald ’ studied the handout and gave
it a headline: “Became Fathers at 75
or More.” Sydney “Telegraph” had a
different slant “Illegitimate Births
Rising.”
g 0
Bolte, as befits a Premier with a
rnaioritv of one in nne Wnncp n
Ta a d ,
minority in the other, had made no reck-
less statements to the press until, in the
heat of the controversy over the flogging
of O’Meally and Taylor, he accused the
Parliamontonr t
Parliamentary Labor Party of setting
Itself up as supporter of the criminal
class.”
c „ ,
Ihe . Speaker ruled this was a breach
of privilege, but the House accepted
Bolte’s explanation that he intended no
personal reflection on members of the
Onnosition The churches and others who
yppusniun. ine cnurcnes ana otners Who
took the same Stand as Labor may also
feel a reflection cast on them, but they
have no Sneaker to hr in? a Premier tn
order g 1 t 0
uiuer.
“Peko”: Although the trouble in
Indonesia has got far beyond the storm-
in-a-teacup stage, that Republic is still
supplying a major part of the tea used
in Australia. Ceylon, which used to
meet about 90 per cent, of our needs, is
still the largest individual supplier, but
for the December quarter sent us less
than 10 million lb., valued at just over
£2 million, out of a total of more than
17 million lb., valued at £3,850,000.
Indonesia’s contribution was 4,232,000
lb., valued at £1,121,000. India sent
nearly 3 million lb., and mainland China
supplied 229,000 lb. Imports from
in the news some months ago
during the “tea war,” were only
101,000 lb.
• m
[From Canberra]
The Menzies “meet-the-people” tours pro-
vide one reason for thinking there’ll be no
double-dissolution. On present reckoning the
P - M - wm be “touring” well up to July when
the first series of Budget-framing Cabinet
meetings will be held.
This year it is the Budget that matters,
A favorable one, timed to be passed shortly
before the House is dissolved for the general
elections, means much to the Government.
It is the Budget on which the Government is
relying most for election support because it
hopes to rectify in it unemployment trends
and other matters which have been providing
the Opposition with much ammunition.
Tasmania will be the venue of the first
meet-the-people tour. N. S. Wales will follow,
£ en Westralia about the middle of May,
Queensland in early June, South Australia
later that month and Victoria in July. Each
visit will last about three days, during which
Menzies will be the guest at such affairs as
civic receptions; there’ll not be political barn-
storming in the usual sense.
THE GIRL HE LEFT BEHIND


PERSONAL ITEMS
One of the dying race of men who
believe public funds should be con-
served and not spent at all costs has
turned-up in Melbourne City Council’s
chief clerk, George Smith, who was given
£l9OO to make a six-months world-tour
studying local-government and training-
schemes for young municipal officers.
On his return he handed back £398, not
by scrimping, he claimed, but by
judicious expenditure because he was
using public funds. He is stjll a very busy
fellow, despite 40 years’ service in the
council, including six years in the Second
A.I.F. The City Council received the
news at its meeting in silence. It would
be charitable to presume the councillors
were stunned.
• •
After 47 years with the P.M.G.’s
Department, George M. Carnsew has
retired from the position of Common-
wealth Controller of post-office services.
He was born at Carraragarmungee (Vic.)
and started as telegraph-messenger at
Yackandandah in 1911. Apart from
routine post-office administration, he was
responsible for seeing that special mail
flowed smoothly during the 1954 Royal
Tour and the 1956 Olympic Games.
• •
When F. E. Bischof (herewith) was
made Queensland’s Commissioner of
Police this year he got a flood of con-
gratulatory telegrams and letters, among
which he was pleased to note quite a
few from old customers of his C. 1.8.
days. Born in Toowoomba (Q.) in 1904,
he went to Toowoomba Grammar,
joined the force in 1925, and went into
plain-clothes four years later. He has
held every rank in the C. 1.8., including
POLICE
the top one for three years, and in 1949
was sent to study police methods at Scot-
land Yard and in France, Switzerland
and Belgium. Asked what qualities were
needed in a policeman, he said genially,
“The mailed fist in the kid-glove.” In
his time he’s brought over 30 murderers
to book, but says he’d sooner take
pains to prevent crime than sit back and
wait for it. Week after week at the C. 1.8.
he used to lecture juvenile offenders in
the presence of their parents —the recent
conference of police-chiefs in Melbourne,
by the way, brought forth some emin-
ently shne opinions on juvenile-delin-
quency—and he has helped a good
many convicted men to rehabilitate
themselves ; hence some of the messages
of congratulation.
• •
Three Sydney . barristers became
judges last week—Rex Chambers, Q.C.,
puisne judge in the Supreme Court in
the Divorce Court, and Gerald Patrick
Donovan and William Brendon Perrig-
non, District Court judges. Chambers,
who took silk in 1953 and was vice-
president of the N.S.W. Bar Association
last year, was a sapper in the 9th Field
Company Engineers in War I, graduated
in Arts and Law after the war, with
first-class honors in Law, and was Challis
Lecturer in Legal Interpretation at
Sydney University for 10 years between
the wars. He was Deputy Judge-
Advocate-General in the Middle East in
the early part of War 11, and was ~
“mentioned” in 1942. He has mainly
handled railway-compensation cases in
recent years. The other new judges also
graduated with first-class honors —
Donovan in 1934, Perrignon in 1940 —
and both have taught at the Law School.
Perrignon enlisted as a gunner in the
2/Ist Artillery Survey Regiment in 1940,
served in the Middle East and was a
captain on discharge in 1946.
• •
Left for Europe by the Strathmore on
Thursday, David Dunn, one of the stal-
warts of Roseville Golf Club (Sydney)
since its establishment 35 years ago on the
rocky, rugged surroundings of Middle
Harbor. David was a bush boy brought-up
and educated along the Lachlan, where as
a youth he knew “Scotty the Wrinkler” ;
and all his adult life he has been a lover
of the writings of Lawson, Paterson,
C. J. Dennis and “John O’Brien”. He
became a chemist, and as such has been
an institution in Roseville as long as any-
one can remember.' Whoever strikes-up
an acquaintanceship with Dave Dunn on
his travels through Britain and the Con-
tinent will find him an agreeable com-
panion and a fund of information,
commonsense and keen observations on
life in Australia.
The old surprise-element of promotion
to higher . ranks in the Navy has gone
overboard —R.A.N. officers are now pro-
visionally promoted, and, provided they
keep their copy-books clean for the
DESTROYERS
ensuing six months, they ship the addi-
tional stripe.
Herewith David Stevenson, who was
provisionally promoted to four rings
last December, and who will take-over
the Destroyer Squadron as a Captain
later on this year. A navigator by choice
and a keen yachtsman, life in H.M.A.S.
Tobruk should be satisfying. Comes
from Queensland via R.A.N.C., is the
son of the Bishop of Grafton, and his
sister is the well-known ballerina.
• •
Ceylon’s new High Commissioner, B.
F. Perara, who has just presented his
credentials in Canberra, visited Australia
five years ago as Permanent Secretary of
his country’s Home Ministry. Since
then he has been in charge of ; Ceylon’s
elaborate welcome to the Queen, and
also Deputy High Commisioner in Lon-
don. A keenly observant and friendly
personality, he is anxious to see and
study “all matters of common interest for
Australia and Ceylon.” He will look at
tea-imports, especially those from Indo-
nesia and elsewhere which are cutting
into Ceylon’s share of this major market;
he will find out whether more students
might not come here from Ceylon ; and
whether Ceylon’s rural development and
co-operative movements might not have
something to offer for Australian
students. He hopes that more Australian
tourists will spend time (and rupees) in
Ceylon, and he has already seen some
surf-lifesavers in action, using methods
which have recently been adopted in his


own island. He feels that too few Aus-
tralians realise the appreciation in Ceylon
both for our Colombo Plan aid and for
the recent gift of a million-rupees’-worth
of flour for flood-aid. The project for an
Australian-built and Australian-equipped
hospital in Ceylon is also widely
approved.
A. J-- Kingsmill succeeds C. J. Butts-
worth as Under-Secretary of the N.S.W.
Chief Secretary’s Department.
• •
Judge James Henry Moore, who has
been appointed chairman of County
Court judges by the Victorian Cabinet,
has had a copybook career for Victoria:
son of a grazier;
scholarship - winner at
Melbourne High; Mel-
bourne and Essendon
League footballer;
wounded in France (with
the 38th Bn.) in World
War I; co-sharer of the
Supreme Court prize ;
lecturer. in law at the
University ; and elevated
to the County Court
Bench in 1943. In recent
months judges and
magistrates in Victoria
have, been divided into
two classes by the silver-
tongues: those who are
for sending drunken
drivers to jail, and those
who are agin. On recent
statistics, Judge Moore
is a for in the appro-
priate circumstances.
• •
Norman Quail has
gone up the line from
office-boy at Geelong to
deputy-chairman of the
Victorian Railways Com-
missioners. He has been
49 years in the depart-
ment, and he is due to
retire next year ; but his
term will probably be
extended. Between the
wars, and since, he has
taken a very active part
in Victorian Legacy and
also in the rehabilitation-
and-welfare section of
the Railways, established
for ex-servicemen. He
enlisted as a gunner in
the First A.1.F., was
commissioned, and won
the M.C. as an officer of
the 111th howitzer
battery, on August 8, 1918, the day the
Hindenburg Line was broken.
• •
Slight, shaven-headed, keenly alert
and striking in saffron robe and sandals,
the Venerable Narada. a Buddhist monk
from Ceylon, is in Australia on his way
found the world by air without a penny
ln .his pocket. His expenses have been
paid by co-religionists, and he has already
visited China (Peking), Saigon, Cam-
bodia, Malaya, Singapore, Java and
Bali. Before he reaches home next
August he expects to visit the United
States, Britain, Holland, France and
Italy.
In Peking he had a long interview with
Chou En-lai, in the course of which he
told the Communist Chinese Premier that
no genuine Buddhist, Christian or
Moslem could ever be a true Communist.
Chou, he says, claimed that adherents of
many religions became Communists—
and added that he did not like the sub-
versive political work of some mission-
aries of faiths other than Buddhism. He
was disturbed at the absence of religious
observance among many of the poorer
people of China, and especially at the
lack of any religious instruction for
PATRICK WHITE, who has won the first Miles
Franklin award of £500 for his novel Voss. Prime
Minister Menzies presented the award to White in
Sydney last Wednesday.
children. In Penang the local Buddhists
raised 200,000 Straits dollars during his
visit, which will be applied to the build-
ing of an English Buddhist school, and in
Saigon an amount of 20,000 piastres
which was raised was applied by the
priest to local orphanages and schools.
In Java, where he went into several
“disturbed” areas, he found Christian
missions hard at work, but in both Java
and Bali he found his own audiences
attentive, and eager to learn the virtues
of meditation. He found the Balinese
brand of Hinduism interesting, but dis-
covered no Buddhist temples on the
island. However, when passing through
Sydney the other day he declared that in
most places he had visited Buddhism was
flourishing, and especially in Malaya
and Singapore. In Sydney there were
only 160 or so Buddhists, but Buddhists
in Sydney and Melbourne had con-
secrated ground.
• •
“Miss M.”: Tindal airstrip, near
Katherine, N.T. (B. 19 /3 / ’5B), was
named after Wing-Commander Archibald
Tindal, who died the day of Darwin’s
Pearl Harbor—Feb. 19, 1942. He came
of a pioneer family who had settled at
famous Ramornie Station, Clarence
River, N.S.W. (still in Tindal hands).
Four brothers served in World War I,
two, including the future Wingco’s father,
being killed. All the men of the next
generation saw active service in War 11,
one dying while p.-0.-w. in Singapore.
Just before War II Archie Tindal became
the youngest wing-commander in the
R.A.A.F. When the Japs arrived he was
unable to get airborne, so, finding a
machine-gun without a crew, he manned
it and was killed beside the gun. The
huge strip, laid down a few months later,
could not have been named more
appropriately; but it would be a pity if
the distinctive spelling of the family
name has been corrupted, as “Retired
Bagman’s” par. suggests, to “Tindall.”
• •
George Pounder, a chartered marine-
engineer with a colorful background, will
oversee Ampol’s interests in the build-
ing of its new 32,000-ton super-tanker
by B.H.P. at Whyalla (S.A.). Pounder
was with the Admiralty from 1936 to
1945 as assistant to Captain L. J. Le
Mesurier, Engineer-in-Chief of the British
Fleet. Le Mesurier was loaned to the
Admiralty by Anglo-Iranian Oil. His
work on counter-measures to Germany’s
acoustic and magnetic mines earned him
the 0.8. E. George Pounder was
directly engaged in the design of these
counter-measures ; and after the war. Le
Mesurier introduced him to Irak
Petroleum, with which he worked for the
next 12 years.
During this time he designed and
installed power- and pumping-stations
on the 30in.-32in. crude-oil pipeline from
Kirkuk in Irak to Banias in Syria. This
pipeline is approximately 600 miles long,
and is built over mountainous country.
Pounder began as an apprentice engine-
fitter with the North Eastern Marine
Engineering Company, Sunderland. This
co. was later to install the machinery in
Ampol’s tanker, the William G. Walkley.
• •
Into the Silence:
. In Sydney, Dame Mary Hughes, widow
of the famous “Billy” Hughes, whom she
married in 1911, when he was Attorney-
General in the Fisher Ministry. She became
a Dame Grand Cross of the Order of the
British Empire in 1922 —the first Australian
to receive this honor.
In Melbourne, at 59, Edwin John Davidson,
Anglican Bishop of Gippsland (Vic.).


ABORIGINALITIES
LIKE many other people, “Spin” (B.
12/2/’5B) makes the mistake of think-
ing that the first rabbits introduced to
Australia were wild ones.
Those brought to N. S. Wales, S.A.
and Westralia by the first settlers were
domesticated strains, which are not pro-
lific breeders. They make short, single
burrows and move so slowly that any
active boy can run them down and catch
them. Some of these domesticated rabbits
escaped or were turned loose, but they
soon died-out because they were at the
mercy of any predator. The only places
I know where rabbits of this type have
held their own are two islands near Port
“Boo!”
Lincoln (S.A.), both free from snakes,
dingoes, goannas, cats and foxes.
But the wild rabbit of Europe is a
mighty different proposition. It is wary,
fleet of foot, a prolific breeder and in
times of drought it survives by eating
bark and scratching up grass-roots.
Further, it excavates huge communal
warrens with a maze of connected under-
ground tunnels m which it can shelter
from many natural enemies.
In 1859 the clipper ship Lightning
landed on the wharf at Geelong (Vic.)
12 pairs of these wild rabbits, consigned
to Thomas Austin, of Barwon Park. They
were all lively and healthy, having been
fed during the voyage on oatmeal, apples,
carrots and turnips. (Apples would keep
up to six weeks on sailing-ships ; carrots
and turnips for a month if packed in
boxes of sand, and supplies en route to
Australia were renewed at Cape Town.)
Austin released those rabbits on his
property and at first everyone was
delighted. It made the place just like
Home to see the dear little things frisk-
ing about! They spread to adjoining
properties. There is grim humor in the
records of the Colac police-court, where
in 1861 a man was fined £lO for “shoot-
ing one rabbit, the property of John
Robertson, of Glen Alire station.”
Within a few more years Austin,
Robertson and other landowners in the
area were near bankruptcy through trying
to exterminate the rabbits which swarmed
on their properties, but by this time they
were breeding faster than they could be
trapped, dug-out or shot.
From that one area near Geelong the
descendants of the wild rabbits imported
by Austin spread in swarming millions
across most of the rest of Australia, to
provide the world with its worst example
of an introduced animal-pest.
Bogaduck.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: American medical
authorities announced a revolutionary
anti-malaria campaign which abandons
area-spraying and concentrates on an all-
dwellings interior-spraying, which for
12-months duration is sudden death to
any mosquito venturing therein. Tropical
old-timers who have so often nursed
pet orangs. and gibbons through malaria
with quinine ann whisky-toddy wonder
whether this new preventive-technique,
whose fundamental principle is to break
the anophele—human host-cycle—will be
effective in simian-inhabited regions.
“L. Maclean”: Phooey to the claim,
made in these pages, that Ambrose
Madrill, who has died aged 93, was the
last survivor of Cobb and Co.’s drivers.
I nominate Andrew Atkins, aged 92
now living in Toowoomba and still quite
active —as the rightful claimant.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Snails move
faster than I had reckoned. The other
evening in my cabbage-plot, tired of
squashing the gasteropods which my
neighbor cheerfully breeds in his wild,
old-world garden next door, I daubed a
dozen snail-shells with red paint and
hurled them over his fence, at least 40ft.
away. Next night four of the red-backed
intruders were again in my cabbages. This
time I painted them with white, and all
but one, after being airborne over the
fence once more, were back at the vege-
tables in two days’ time ; which seems
to prove that the lowly snail shares with
horses, cattle, kangaroos, etc., the urge
to return to succulent feed once they
have found it.
* * * *
“Mullbong”: As with the cottage built
with some of the timbers from one of
the two Gwydirs wrecked near Norah
Head, N.S.W. (B. 12/3/’5B), so part of
the timber used in the building of Norah-
ville, the home of Edward Hammond
Hargreaves, came from a North Coast
steamer loaded with cedar-logs wrecked
on nearby Norahville Beach. Hargreaves
bought some of the logs salvaged by the
shipping co. with bullock-teams and also
the right to salvage the remainder. These
were pit-sawn near Budgewoi with other
cedar-logs cut at Yarramalong, rafted
down Wyong Creek and across Tugger ah
Lakes to Cedar Wharf on the south end of
Canton Beach.
“Harbel”: Another contentious subject
around Norahville - Toukley surrounds
the still-standing, dilapidated home of
Edward Hargreaves, discoverer of gold
in N.S.W. All local authorities agree that
Hargreaves pioneered the district, built
the home from local cedar, and for years
shared the peninsula with only three other
houses. Neither does anybody dispute
that he it was who named the locality
THE BEACH AT YEPPOON
One night the beach at Yeppoon —
Low clouds dulling the moon
Water and sand and sky all grey —
Looked my notion of an English seascape.
It should have inspired a poem
Full of yearning for our ancestral home.
No doubt Europe has things to look at
If one could suffer the climate.
But travel’s mostly rush and gape,
So all my notion of English landscape
Will remain the beach at Yeppoon
Grey in the light of a shrouded moon.
QUEENSLAND.
R. G. HAY.


tOouw? you '
8£ COOP BKOOOH TO
ptzecr Me ro ths
in? \es' »
ANP-SCREW ROOM /


Norahville and the cape Norah Head.
But the belief, fostered by tourist-guides,
that the Norah thus perpetuated was
Hargreaves’ wife, finds dissenters. Mrs.
Hargreaves’ Christian-name, they claim,
was Elizabeth; there was a daughter
named Norah, but the names were
established before she was born. There is
little local support, either, for the tourist-
guides’ story that Hargreaves had the
furniture for his Norahville home made
in England and sent out on a wind-
jammer, the Duncan Dunbar. Old hands
contend that the house was built after
the Dunbar was wrecked.
m
* * *
“W ommadoo”' “B AK ” (B.
12/3/’5B) is quite right l’found his
word-picture of Chinese planing-methods
too irresistibly comic to treat seriously. I
do offer the suggestion that most better-
class timber used in cabinet-making is not
very splintery, if rubbed with the grain,
but still wonder if Ah Chee wore a leather
apron back-to-front. My provocative
remark about sawing, being translated,
means, “I don’t understand you, please
explain,” The points of saw-teeth point
away from the handle, and, short of put-
ting a handle on the wrong end of the
blade, one can only saw by pushing,
preferably away from the body. But
obviously this was not what “8.A.K.”
meant. It would seem the saw was used
not handle nearest the sawer, narrow
end farthest away, but back of blade
towards the sawer, toothed-edge farthest
away. And I’m not Chinese enough to
see how you could work a hand-saw that
way.
„ * * *
“Fasdean”: Birds are not ant-eaters
f rom cho j ce (B. 5/3/’5B), save in lean
t j mes Watch a mob of wood-swallows
action to discover that. Formic acid,
the main defence-line of ants, is nasty
stuff that they are quick to administer to
an aggressor. The general idea is that
birds rub ants over their feathers to
remove excess ' formic. Yet ‘‘Gravel-
snatcher has me thinking ; babblers (or
happy jacks) and apostle-birds are among
our lousiest fowl, and both just wallow
bi ant-baths.
* * * *
“Manamoi”: White cypress - pine
(CalMtris glauca )—that excellent, white-
ant-proof building-timber—may some day
be as rare as red-cedar, and for the same
reason—wasteful use and shortsighted
destruction of trees in clearing land,
White-cypress grows plentifully over
much of N.S.W. and the southern fringe
“Chicken!”
of Queensland, but is found nowhere else
in the world. When the first fences were
built in the Western Division of N.S.W.
it was used extensively for posts.
Replacements grow slowly in those parts,
and the trees are now scarce. In higher-
rainfall areas, especially the north-west of
N.S.W., growth is more rapid, but, with
the post-war building boom, closer-settle-
ment and increased clearing, timber on
private land is dwindling. The low
royalty payable to landholders does not
encourage the cultivation of commercial
stands, and State forests can supply only
a fraction of the present demand. It
seems that the unique qualities of white-
cypress, like those of many other Aus-
tralian natives, will be appreciated only
when wholesale destruction has rendered
it almost extinct.
* * * *
“Tabba”: The 4ft. tree-snake was
curled-up, snoozing, on the bottom plate
snugged-in against the weatherboard. He
showed disapproval when I prodded him
with a stick; repeated proddings
persuaded him to leave. Lazily he slid
on to an eight-gauge wire clothes-line
and rippled confidently along it to where
an umbrella was hooked over the wire.
In one long smooth movement Joe poured
himself down the brolly and across the
intervening gap to the ground. In the few
seconds when his middle was attenuated
during the descent it moulded itself into
the likeness of a medium-size rat. On
the ground the corpulence was less pro-
nounced as Joe slithered off in search of
a more private doss-house.
K- t *
“Sevenelms”: The kookaburra’s usual
approach to prey is a simple fast dive to
a three-point landing, but I saw one old
brushback take a moth by hovering,
wings beating, in mid-air, with all the
aerial virtuosity of a humming-bird.
- * * H *
“Kelms”: In an A.B.C. talk I men-
tioned blackboys 20ft. high, and a howl
went up to high heaven from the dry
(country where a bloke who’d never seen
the big fellows reckoned they didn’t come
that high anywhere. Now I hear from
the lower south that out from
Albany the giants still grow, some to
24ft. high, and I’m suggesting a grove
of them should be preserved. If the
accepted rate of growth—a foot in 100
years—is anywhere near right, a 25ft.
blackboy’s been growing for 25 centuries,
which would make it close on the oldest
living thing on the continent. Its only
rivals could be some of the cycads, like
the Macrozamias, which also claim a
more ancient lineage; but the blackboy
has the edge on them in being able to
stand up better to the fires which are part
of the Westralian bush. Strange that a
plant, full of volatile oils and from which
the explosive, picric acid, can be
extracted, should seem to relish an
occasional burn. It’s the coating of char-
coal that does it —before an ordinary
bushfire can penetrate that, it’s miles
further on and the danger has passed.


“Tabba”: A company rep. stayed
overnight on a Queensland cattle-station,
enjoying the hospitality. Back in town,
he bought a bottle of Scotch, which he
wrapped arid took round to the station-
owner’s town-house and gave it to the
boss’s sister. She looked at the package
and asked, “Will they know what it is
for?” “Perhaps,” replied the rep. gravely.
“But if they are doubtful at all they can
get in touch with the makers.”
CLOVER
Dale bobs kissed with deepest pink
hying by the river,
You have a quality of youth, I think.
plot beautiful, perhaps, but sweet;
Yo U r fragrance rising from the plodding
feet
Of cattle browsing where you cover
Brings back a child on cushions of your
green
lying enchanted in a land unseen
While the whole world rolls over.
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.
OLD COLONIAL SHADES
rmany people, St. David’s Park, a
green isle of quiet in central Hobart,
looks like just another public reserve —
until they begin reading inscriptions on
the tombstones huddled shoulder to
shoulder around the walls.
Hobart was the second-oldest settle-
ment in the Commonwealth, and this park
is on the site of the city’s earliest burial-
ground, where the first funeral recorded
was in 1804. After being closed in 1872,
the cemetery gradually became a scene of
desolation. Thirty years ago the Hobart
Council bought the land for conversion
into gardens, and arranged for a selection
of mellowed monuments to line the walls,
banked by shrubs and flowers.
And what a tale these stones unfold!
Visitors are immediately struck by the
child-mortality of those days. It is signifi-
cant that a baby was the first to be
interred at the graveyard. Families were
large, but sketchy hygiene, lack of sani-
tation, and scarcity of doctors offered
dismal prospects for survival.
A large tablet dated 1804 proclaims
that George Kearly, the first white male
child born in Tasmania, lived only six
days. And misfortune seldom struck a
household singly. There are many slabs
like the one to the memory of Fanny
Oceana Bright, “who died aged fourteen
weeks, and her little sister Rosa, dead at
four months old.”
A great many women perished in
childbirth. Among them was Virginia
Stephen, aged 33, wife of the Attorney-
Cieneral of the Colony. She died “after
a short illness consequent on a premature
confinement, leaving a young family of
seven children. Besides these she gave
birth to two others who died in early
infancy. The youngest, also a Daughter,
died three days before its Mother, and
lies at her side in the vault beneath.”
The epitaph of another such victim
"But twelve cans of beer , Sergeant—he cant he TOO intoxicated !"
reads: “She entered upon this life in
1820, and very suddenly departed it in
1842. Leaving an Afflicted Husband, an
Infant only five days old, and two elder
Children to deplore Her loss.”
Below is an elegy to a 37-year-old
mother:
A Wife and Mother lieth here;
This call of God she did not fear.
Eight children, she left behind,
Her prayers for them were not confined.
Mark, Learn, all ye that Read. . . .
The rest is illegible.
And somehow there is infinite sadness
in this tribute composed by a loving but
inarticulate husband:
She was —
But words are wanting to say what.
Think of what a wife should be
And she was that.
How fashions in women’s names have
altered since then! In St. David’s Park
one finds a spate of Marthas, Marias,
Hannahs, Emilys, Selinas, and Amelias.
And many a Peregrine, Gideon, Daniel,
Benjamin or Samuel was cut-off in his
prime, too. One young husband was
only 21 when he was struck down, “Leav-
ing a widow and two children to deplore
his loss.”
Fatal accidents were common,
apparently. Nineteen-years-old James
Douglas was drowned in the river Der-
went. In 1833 Richard Hames was
“Unfortunately killed by a horse.”
Two lovely Children and a Wife he’s left
Of the dearest friend on earth bereft
runs the epitaph of some other man who
was carried off in untimely manner.
Even Matthew Bowden, the principal
surgeon of the Colony, failed to escape
premature death. His tombstone reads:
“Died in 1814, aged 35 years and 12 days.
Leaving a family of four children with a
disconsolate Mother to lament the loss
of their dear Protector, who fulfilled the
duties of affectionate Husband, a tender
Father, and a Faithful Friend.”
Dr. Bowden came to Hobart Town
with the city’s founder, Lieut.-Colonel
David Collins, in 1804. The day after
they arrived from Victoria, Governor
Collins selected the St. David’s Park land
for a burial-ground. The first funeral
took place next day, and six short years
later he was buried there himself.
Bushrangers seem to have been a con-
stant menace. Poor young Henry Forth,
at only 13, “was barbarously murdered at
Kingston on his way to school,” and
Constable Joseph Howard, aged 31, was
“shot by a bushranger while in the execu-
tion of his duty.”
Evidently anybody who achieved
middle-age was lucky indeed. Neverthe-
less, one lady triumphantly weathered no
fewer than 70 summers, to depart in 1831,
leaving these enigmatic lines for her
spouse to ponder:
Weep not for me, my Husband dear,
I am not dead but sleeping here.
My debt is paid, my bed you see.
Prepare yourself to follow me.
NAIRDA LYNE.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(.Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office (or Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
Business, Robbery, Etc
B.P. .Has a Birthday
'THERE is no sentiment in
-*■ business, it is often
averred. But sentimental
reasons seem to be the only
grounds for timing the Burns
Philp bonus-issue this year
instead of last year, the year
before or the year before that.
In fact, for many years indeed,
the sharemarket, like Sister
Anne, has been looking into the
foreground, middle-distance
and background, trying to
discern the shape of a bonus-
issue or a bigger dividend.
Since World War II the most
investors have been able to
see —until now —have been two
million-pound capital - issues
for cash, at par. The “par”
part of it has at least been
realistic, and shareholders
receiving the present bonus-
issue will have the satisfaction
of knowing that it is not merely
a return of share-premiums.
The sentimental reason for
the just-announced one-for-four
bonus-issue is that Burns Philp
is about to celebrate its 75th
birthday. Books will close on
April 30, and the issue will be
tax-free, being financed from
a revaluation of assets.
This revaluation will not
strain anything in providing a
million. It could easily come
from a reappraisal of the co.’s
investment - portfolio, which
includes big holdings in Queens-
land Insurance (in at below par,
and nowhere near market-
value), Bankers and Traders’
Insurance (ditto), and G. J.
Coles and Co., Ltd., apart from
controlling - interests in a
number of South Seas and other
subsidiaries.
To hazard a guess, it is likely
that the excess of market-
valuation of the B.P. holding in
Queensland Insurance over and
above the book-value would
more than provide the where-
withal for a million £1 bonus-
shares.
Islands trading has not been
so profitable to Burns Philp
in recent years, and shipping is
a headache, especially when the
time comes for replacement of
vessels. But the sale of the
Penneys’ chain-store business
to G. J. Coles and Co. in 1956
did a great deal to stabilise the
B.P. business further ; payment
was 3,600,000 ss. G. J. Coles
shares and £1,025,000 in cash
—cash-payments to be spread
over eight years. Since then
G. J. Coles has made both
bonus and cash issues, and has
spread its chain-store net
further still by takeovers and
the building of new stores.
The one-for-four bonus-
issue being made by Burns
Philp will take its paid capital
up to £5 million, which will be
still well exceeded by visible
reserves, apart from obviously
immense inner strength.
But until dividends start to
flow at a rate more in keeping
with the potential of the busi-
ness it will still be a waiting
game for shareholders who buy
at the present market of 695.,
cum rights to the bonus-issue.
On this basis the ex-rights price,
is 555. 6d., giving a yield of
3.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Sharemarket Firmer
'T'HE setback in the share-
market at the end of
March lost its momentum just
before Easter, and showed a
firming trend. But the level of
prices at the closing of the
Exchanges for Easter was still
considerably lower than a fort-
night earlier. And delayed-
action falls were still going on
among stocks which had shown
little activity during the period
of sharpest decline.
But the strength still
evident in the market for
-v
industrial ordinary shares,
where yields now are often
below 4 p.c., remains a source
of puzzlement to many share-
market observers. Economic
conditions generally are more
difficult than they have been
for some years, and problems
requiring solution continue to
stack-up.
The strength is mostly to be
found in front-rank stocks, in
support of which there seems
to be a concentration of in-
vestment funds, especially from
“An not worthy of you, Milly. You re too damn
good for me”
institutional investors, and
possibly from overseas sources.
Some of these investors have
longer purses and more distant
objectives than the average
individual who buys shares for
immediate income and possible
early capital-increment. He is
now forced to pick and choose
among the second-line stocks.
The Unilever Building
"pROM Hunter Street to
Circular Quay, and around
the northern approaches to the
Harbor Bridge, the skyline of
Sydney is altering with each
passing month.
The Quay area is assuming
more and more an appearance
like that of down-town New
York, though the building-
programme in the area has
only just begun.
A giant new building,
sheathed on three sides with
glass, will be opened tomorrow
(10th). Built at a cost of £li
million, Unilever House is the
new headquarters of Unilever
Australia Pty., Ltd., and its
associated companies.
The building is next-door
to the site of the proposed State
Opera House, and reaches to a
height of 178 ft. above the, water
of Circular Quay. This makes
it just a little higher than the
carriageway of Sydney Harbor
Bridge.
Unilever House is situated
at East Circular Quay, near the
new 1.C.1. building. From its
windows a magnificent view
of the new Sydney arising
around Circular Quay is to be
seen, including the massive new
overhead railway and roadway.
From the roof of the
Unilever building one can
see clear to the Pacific
Ocean on one side and to
the Blue Mountains on the
other. It is the first major
office-building in Australia to
be sheathed with glass. On
three sides —a total area of
more than lj acres—glass
stretches from the granite base
to the roof.
To control heat and to
eliminate glare, the window-
walls are made of anti-actinic
glass, which filters-out ultra-
violet rays. All windows are
fitted with modern Venetian
blinds. Four independent air-
conditioning units maintain a
steady temperature and relative
humidity within the building.
There are 16 floors. In the
basement there is a tele-
phone-exchange, capable of
handling 400 extensions, an
electricity sub-station, and an
archives store. The floor above
this, which fronts onto
Circular Quay East, is a car-
park.
The next 12 floors are
office-areas, and above this an
entire floor is given over to the
staff restaurant. Here
employees can eat their lunches
while looking down on Sydney
Harbor and its environs.
Unilever House stands on a
site measuring 7700 square-
feet. The gross floor-area in the


NOW OPEN /
THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
5K% LOAN
Government - Guaranteed
For 5, 10 or 20 Years!
Now you can add very substantially to the earning power of
your savings—do you realise that 5£ per cent, is almost
double savings bank interest? What’s more, you will be
making sure of your money.
Half-yearly interest payments and full repayment of principal
at maturity are unconditionally guaranteed by the N.S.W.
Government.
You can also invest Trust Funds as well as your own money
—the Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W.,
Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania.
As it is the Board’s final issue this financial year, the Loan
cannot be overlooked by anyone who wants to start making
more money at once.
INVEST TODAY AT ANY OFFICE OF THE—
• Commonwealth Trading Bank ;
• Australian and New Zealand
Bank Limited ;
9 Bank of New South Wales ;
• Commercial Banking Company
of Australia Limited ;
Through a Stockbroker;
Or at the Sydney Water Board Offices.
m
The
Water
Board Loan
■
X
Underwritten by Ernest L. Davis & Co., 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
building is 128,950 square-feet.
The total volume of the build-
ing is 1,528,300 cubic feet.
The Wunderlich Story
THE Wunderlich business in
Australia is a business of
character. That was bound
to be so when it is remembered
that the Wunderlich brothers,
who founded it in 1888, were
together in it until Ernest, the
eldest, died at 86 in 1945 and
Dr. Otto in 1951. Alfred
Wunderlich, the present chair-
man, still carries on the per-
sonal connection at 93 years of
age.
The Wunderlich family
applied art and idealism to an
appropriate business metal
ceilings, architectural terra-
cotta, tiles and other structural
necessities or embellishments
of the building-trade. One of
the brothers was originally an
importer with astronomy as his
hobby; one a doctor with a
leaning to literature ; the third
a musician, but trained for
commerce. The three brothers
were born in London and
educated there and in Switzer-
land.
The early history of the
Wunderlich enterprise was
described in three earlier publi-
cations issued at appropriate
intervals. Now Seventy Years
of Wunderlich Industry has
been published to deal speci-
fically with progress over the
past decade, which has been
one of great expansion in all
Australian industry.
During the crazy 1945-49
period, when power-blackouts
and coal - strikes disrupted
industry, and building-materials
were scarce and under permit,
expansion was boldly tackled.
Over the past 10 years capacity
has been increased and many
new products have been added
to the list of manufactures.
Now a long-range plan of
future development is in hand.
Some idea of the spread and
ramifications of the Wunder-
lich business can be gathered
from a summary of its
activities in the different
States:—
New South Wales: Head-office,
showroom and metalworking fac-
tory at Baptist Street, Sydney;
metalworking factory at Villa-
wood ; asbestos-cement, terra-cotta
roofing-tile, ceramics and stone-
ware-pipe works at Rosehill. There
ts a sales-office in Newcastle.
Victoria: Sales-office and metal-
working factory at Hanna Street,
South Melbourne; asbestos-cement
and ceramic works at Sunshine,
and a roofing-tile factory at
Vermont.
Queensland: Sales-office and
metalworking factory at The
Valley, Brisbane; asbestos-cement
works at Gaythome; roofing-tile
factories at Northgate and Ferny
Grove.
South Australia: Sales-office and
asbestos - cement warehouse at
Grote Street, Adelaide; metalwork-
ing factory at Campden Gardens,
and roofing-tile works at Edwards-
town.
Tasmania: Sales-office and metal-
working factory at Melville Street,
Hobart; sales-office and terra-cotta
roofing-tile works at Launceston.
Western Australia: Associated
with H. L. Brisbane and Wunder-
lich, Ltd., Perth, with sales-office
and metal-working factory at Lord
Street; tile-factory at Caversham
and Belmont; stoneware pipe-
works at Belmont; pottery at
Subiaco, and fireclay-ware factory
at Brown Street, East Perth.
The metalworking division
is the senior branch of the co.’s
many-sided activities. It is
equipped for modelling, stamp-
ing, cutting, machining, press-
ing, welding and fabrication
and assembly of metal com-
ponents in sheet and extruded
form for architectural and
industrial use. Castings of
non-ferrous alloys (and heat-
treatment of aluminium cast-
ings), metal-finishing processes,
including brass-finishing, oxi-
dising and stove-enamelling,
also vitreous-enamelling of
bronze, are undertaken.
Up to 1947 production in-
ducted architectural metal-
work, metal doors and frames,
grilles, entrances, metal ceilings
and fascias, flush steel parti-
tions, windows, escalator-
balustrading, glazing - bars,
metal letters, stainless-steel
sinks, metal kitchen-cabinets,
industrial metalwork and
stamped and pressed compo-
nents for refrigerators, washing-
machines and the like.
During the last 10 years
new products include acoustic
metal ceilings, adjustable sun-
louvres, insulated metal wall-
cladding, aluminium windows
and curtain-walls. One of the,
most eye-striking of Wunder-
lich products of recent years
has been ceramic veneer, used
on most of the new city sky-
scrapers. This ceramic veneer
seems likely to become almost
as conspicuous as red-tile roofs
in Australia, for which Wun-
derlich enterprise was primarily
responsible in years gone by.
The present board of
directors comprises Alfred
Wunderlich (chairman),
Douglas Croudace (managing-
director), Charles Wunderlich
(son of Alfred —managing-
director), V. G. Watson,' S. M.
Wreford, R. H. Solly and E. G.
Scott (director and secretary).
World Aluminium
[From “Old Opencut”]
ALL aluminium - producers
report large surpluses of
ingot. In the U.S. the big


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
'jACKSON &
. O'SUE IJVAJv
ti PTYLTD
MS '\ini C
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
operators
STEEL <sc COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON SfANUFA CTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
fellows are cutting production,
but not prices as yet. The race
for production supremacy,
plus some unusual factors, is
responsible for the glut. In
1936 world production was
400,000 tons. War-demands
reached a peak of 2.2 million
tons in 1943. Disposal of war
stockpiles and transition adjust-
ments dropped the 1946 out-
put to 800,000 tons. Since
that year production has been
steadily rising. The 1957 “high”
was 3,741,000 tons. Of this
total U.S. produced 1,580,000
tons; Canada, 600,000 tons ;
U.K. and Western Europe,
713,000 tons ; Soviet-controlled
zones of 648,000 tons ; all other
countries, 200,000 tons.
In 1952 the U.S. encouraged
producers to instal additional
smelter-capacity with an under-
taking to buy all surplus metal
above market requirements. To
safeguard the position the
Aluminium Company of
America (Alcoa) arranged a
contract with Aluminium
Canada (Alcan) to supply
600,000 tons over the three
years 1955-58.
The Kaiser Corporation
ordered 186,000 tons over the
same period from the same
source. At the end of 1957
235,000 tons remained to be
delivered.
Now the U.S. is buying only
on a basis of fixed-quantity
tonnages for defence require-
ments. In the first quarter of
1958 purchases from all con-
cerns totalled 48,500 short-
tons. The second-quarter order
is fixed at 54,000 short-tons.
Alcoa promptly closed-down
20 p.c. of its operating-
capacity. Kaiser reduced by
8 p.c., while Anaconda, which
had already closed-down 25
p.c. of its plant, has fixed a
\2\ p:C. reduction for 1958.
Reynold’s Metal Company, a
latecomer and holding Govern-
ment orders, is maintaining,
production. The expansion in
aluminium production has been
fostered since 1950 by the
rise in copper prices. The
biggest impetus was given in
1955 by a peak price of well
over £4OO a ton.
World - parity price for
aluminium has remained steady
at £l97stg. for the past 18
months. In the same period
copper prices dropped to
£l7O a ton. The high cost of
copper induced electrical and
allied-trade manufacturers to
change to aluminium. Now the
swing is back to copper. In
this country Mt. Isa is export-
ing copper at world prices.
Other producers are supplying
local demands at Australian
prices round £325 a ton. This
is helping the producer, but
the user can’t be too happy
about his prime costs in rela-
tion to overseas competition.
An analysis of the position
shows that world production
of aluminium for 1957 was
27 p.c. above sales demands.
With the general trade-reces-
sion and the greater demand
for copper, the ingot already
stockpiled plus the production
cuts now in operation should
fix the world output for 1958
at approximately one-third
below the 1957 total. Prices are
likely to remain firm.
'' • /
H.-P. in G.B.
[From London]
A PAMPHLET, Hire Pur-
chase in a Free Society
(published by the Institute of
Economic Affairs), is excep-
tionally good reading for an
official publication, for, besides
being something of a social
document, it also goes behind
the scenes of a growing
industry about which very
little has been written.
In one respect it is quite
astonishing. The authors begin
by being detached and objec-
five, reciting the historical and
statistical facts; then they
obviously become more and
more engrossed in their subject,
their detachment giving place
to partisan enthusiasm; and,
finally, they grow impassioned,
lunging at and haranguing
against post-war Governments
not only for being unkind to
the trade but also for their
fiscal policies.
The first reaction is a com-
forting one, for it makes
nonsense of the belief, very
strong in a country which, tends
to be financially puritanical,
that h.-p. borrowers are a
feckless lot. This is not so.
Careful selection on the part
of the trader and honesty and
responsibility on the part of
the customer make for a
similar kind of relationship as
exists between building-society
and mortgagor.
Defaults are few. During
the depression and the' war
years “many companies
emerged with an average loss
of no higher than a fraction of
1 p.c. of the amount of credit
advanced”; the bad-debt pro-
vision is today only one-half
of one per cent.; and the
“snatch-back” is virtually
unheard of.
And, as evidence of the
hirer’s sense of responsibility,
it is stated that “a common
and not unworthy feature of
working-class life is the doing
of overtime to pay-off the
washing-machine.”
Indeed, a case can be made-
out that a hire-purchase
contract is a form of saving,
since “Research by the Oxford
Institute of Statistics has shown
that people are not usually
good at keeping up desultory
saving for an undefined pur-
pose, and that they are most
likely to keep on saving, that
is, to be provident, thrifty and
responsible, when they enter
into contracts to pay for a
worth-while object.”
The hire-purchase debt
before the war amounted to
about £lOO million and is now
about £5OO million.
This latter figure represents
less than 3 p.c. of the annual
income. The British figure of
£lO a head is much lower than
in other countries with high
living - standards, comparing
with about £45 in the United
States and about £2O in Aus-
tralia and Canada.
“If,” states the pamphlet,
“inflation is brought to a stop
by monetary controls and
illusions about holding it in
check by controlling hire-
purchase are finally abandoned,
the present-day debt of £5OO-
- could grow to £2500-
million in 10 years.”
A* to the ratios of h.-p. to
direct sales, the following per-
centages, apart from furniture,
emphasise the luxury element:
-Commodity. Percentage,
Motor-cars .. .. .. 20
Motor-cycles 30 to 40
Radio- and TV-sets .. over 50
Household appliances
(gas and electric) .. 30
Furniture over 50
The following quotation
epitomises the strong feelings
of the authors: “The move-
ment as a whole persists in
thriving, much to the annoy-
ance of some politicians. Can
we hope that the brooding
'gentlemen in Whitehall’ must
soon admit that finance com-
panies are conducting a per-
fectly acceptable business
which entitles them to a recog-
nised place within the develop-
ing financial structure?”
How enviously they, and the
industrial bankers, look to-
wards Australia! There are
no debentures here, obtainable
over the counter or otherwise;
the joint-stock banks hold
themselves aloof; and, most
of all, the Government can,
and does, clamp-down at both
extremes. This is the sore
point. Control over initial
deposits and periods of pay-
ment has a powerful inhibit-
ing effect, but also can lead
to chaos (when all controls
were removed in July, 1954,
the radio - and - television
industry found itself faced
with a 12-months’ demand
within a few weeks).
There is, too, control at the
other extreme: the source of
the finance. Because of
“obstruction” by the Capital
Issues ■ Committee, finance-
companies are barred from
raising fresh capital in the open
market. The limit of £lO,OOO
capital has resulted in the
mushroom-growth of many
small companies. There are
over 1000 of them. And 80
p.c. of the total debt is shared
by the “Big 12,” who are frus-
trated because they cannot
expand. But there are loop-
holes such as share-for-share
exchanges and the exclusion
from C.I.C. jurisdiction of the
conversion of bona - fide
deposits into share-capital.
Considerable sums of money,
from the institutions and indus-
trial concerns as well as from
private investors, are now
lodged with the finance-com-
panies. The habit is growing,
much to the concern of the
building-societies. For not
only is the rate of interest
(8 p.c. or 8| p.c.) higher, but
the short contract enables
interest to be paid gross without
the deduction of income-tax.




SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Artbursts
When Is an Abstract?
It is an interesting question
whether Thomas Gleghorn’s
contributions to the mixed
show of abstracts at the Terry
Clune Galleries, King’s Cross,
should really be called
abstracts.
Perhaps, since “The Reef”
is unmistakably concerned
with rocks and white water as
well as shapes in tension,
sinister horizontals, heart-
rending diagonals and all the
rest of it, they should be
described, or even reproved, as
semi-abstracts.
But whatever they are, they
prove that abstraction is not
quite so hopeless a “cul-de-sac”
as W.yndham Lewis called it;
for they are attractive in them-
selves —Gleghom uses color
quietly and harmoniously—and,
though a reef might still be
better as a reef, their shifting
rectangular patterns are a very
suitable way of dealing with
our modern rectangular cities.
In “Edge of the Dusk,
Harbor No. 2,” for instance,
Gleghorn takes ships, boats,
cranes, masts, piles and green
water, all the natural, visible
objects you might see anywhere
from Elizabeth Bay to Darling
Harbor, and rearranges them
into a pattern which is at once
a striking piece of abstract
design and a perfectly recog-
nisable portrait of his subject in
its dusky light. It is a very
forceful little painting.
The same certainty of touch
and the same escape from the
endless repetitions of abstrac-
tion are not so easy to find
elsewhere in the show—
certainly, not in Stanislaus
Rapotec’s glaring and slithery
adventures on sheets of tin.
But George de Olszanski's
“Perception,” if not perceptibly
deeper than the arrangements
of apricot-colored flowers that
used to be called “breakfast-
room” pictures, is a warm and
pleasant piece of work.
♦♦♦ *
Easter Offerings
The outstanding picture at
Sydney Macquarie Galleries’
Easter exhibition is Jack
Carington Smith’s “Grey
Derwent” —or would be, if this
artist’s greys were not, as
always, -so uncompromising.
Jean Appleton’s “Still Life
with Red Drape” is a livelier
bit of color, but shallower
and Cedric Flower’s topsyturvy
Paris, like Dufy mixed-up with
a fairytale, is also brighter but
shallower.
Without 'quite establishing
any particular reason for itself,
Justin O’Brien’s “Boy in a
Turkish Cap” is a sensitive
piece of portraiture; as also,
and more firmly, Donald
Friend’s “Head Studies,
Ceylon.”
♦♦♦ ❖
Photographs
The third Melbourne Inter-
national Exhibition of Photo-
graphy at the Town Hall is
rather like a meeting of the
United Nations. There were
3140 applicants from 40
countries, but only 682 got
past the keen eyes of the
judges. America came first
with 269 acceptances'from 886
entries; Australia next with
117 and 818; Malaya, Hong
Kong and Hungary neck-and-
neck with 128, 118 and 100
entries and 22, 36 and 12
acceptances; while Libya
brings up the rear with two
entries and two refusals.
It is difficult to know on
what grounds the judges based
their judgments. A humble
layman would be inclined to
say that most, if not all, of
the exhibits are on the same
high level of technical excel-
lence and from that point of
view could have been taken
by the same man. The only
observable differences are in
the realm of subject-matter.
Some of the artist-photo-
graphers are interested in dead-
end kids, tramps and hoboes
—most of these hail from the
United States, the paradise of
billion-dollar heiresses, oil-
magnates and film stars —
some are interested in babies,
some in nudes, some in land-
scape, a few in architecture
and in ships, and a whole lot
in the strange abstract pat-
terns thrown on skyscraper-
walls by casement windows,
or ploughed into the sand by
wind and water.
A bird’s-eye or snail’s-eye
view of a variety of common
objects excites others, while
some delight in viewing Nature
from some unusual angle, like
photographing a group of
naked boys from behind and
from the waist down, or the
silhouette of an enormously
fat man against a sunset. These
apparently have been
influenced by the modern
idiom in painting.
Films
“Peyton Place”
There is considerable
dramatic impact, as well as
sharp and well - sustained
characterisation in this screen-
version of Grace Metalious’s
novel, which turns on parental
frustrations, teenage love-
troubles, rape, murder and
suicide, with crowding-in side-
issues at every turn.
Director Mark Robson has
been notably successful in
presenting the complicated
human problems and a well-
limned cross-section of dwellers
in a big country-town. His
“atmosphere” is well caught,
and the New England rural
scenes in autumn colors are
quite beautiful. He has also
been well served by his players
—one of the nastiest bits of
whole-hearted villainy seen on
the screen for some time is that
portrayed by Arthur Kennedy,
as Lucas, the drunkard who is
finally battered to death by
the stepdaughter. Another
first-class performance comes
from Lloyd Nolan, as the
kindly doctor who jeopardises
his career by giving vital
evidence at the girl’s trial.
As the stepdaughter, x Hope
Lange gives a performance of
remarkable intelligence and
sensitiveness. Diane Varsi's
Alison McKenzie is also a well-
wrought characterisation —-that
of a teenager at first bewildered
by the disclosure of her
illegitimacy, then becoming
hard and defiant towards her
mother, a role in which Lana
Turner emotes with surprising
conviction.
Other good work is done by
Lee Philips, as the schoolmaster
whose patience and under-
standing finally break-down
Connie McKenzie’s determina-
tion to “go it alone” ; and by
Mildred Dunnock, as a spinster
teacher whose frustrations in
her profession fail to make
a dent in the innate sweetness
of her nature.
At Sydney Century.
“A Farewell To Arms”
When, in their respective
roles in this multicolored
marathon at Sydney, Rfegent
Mr. Rock Hudson seduces Miss
Jennifer Jones in the green-
house, the camera discreetly
withdraws to inspect the
surrounding Italian architec-
ture, and while that is most
impressive it is, of course, not
half so interesting as the goings-
on in the greenhouse.
And that, indeed, is typical
of most of the film. The
director and his cameras seem
to loiter on acres of beautiful
scenery, including vast
panoramic close-ups of Miss
Jones and Mr. Hudson, without
ever being able to get down
to the human values with which
the story is concerned.
It is a fault both of acting
and directing. Neither Miss
Jones nor Mr. Hudson appears
capable of expressing much
more than the desire to go to
bed together; while Charles
Vidor's direction is mainly of
the shallow, ham-fisted kind
that sees a field court-martial as
three Gilbertian characters
sentencing men to death almost
for the fun of it, instead of
three weary and desperate
officers forced to dispense
expediency rather than justice
in an effort to weed - out
“infiltrators” from the seeth-
ing struggle of refugees pour-
ing southwards ahead of the
German army.
This retreat, incidentally, has
a Goya-like intensity, with the
camera glancing left and right
at the attendant tragedy and
horror, and is quite the most
powerful thing in the film ; it is
unfortunate that there is such
a falling-off in the events
preceding and following it. The
ill-fated doctor, Major Rinaldi,
played with some depth and
understanding by Vittorio de
Sica, is another of the few
really satisfying ingredients
of the film.
❖ ❖
“Merry Andrew”
Danny Kaye is here at the
peak of his form as a teacher
at a posh school for boys run
by his autocratic father (Noel
Purcell) —in fact, he is such a
devastating influence that
the old man is glad to give
him leave to do a spot of
archaelogical research. The
place he selects to dig for some
fabled relic happens to be
currently occupied by a circus
in which the fascinating Pie)
Angeli is a trapezist, and it
naturally follows that before


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO CHARLES LOU SICK late of
Wellington— TAKE NOTICE that JEAN
LOU SICK has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4452 of 1957 on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
Upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter
|n appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 12th day of June 1958 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge
from CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor,
107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
south Wales—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
NOTHING EQUALS
Warmray's Amazing Efficiency!
warm ray
TRIPLE-PURPOSE, SLOW-COMBUSTION,
AIR-CONDITIONING HOME HEATER
Model No. 3
Super De luxe
if Large Capacity
Over 8,000
cu. ft.
if Special large
firebox for long
burning with-
out attention.
if Extra large
hotplate for
cooking. ,
Installs in Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray'
ACTUALLY COSTS NOTHING
Model No. 2A
■jlr Heats over 5,000 cubic
feet.
Modern artistic cream
porcelain enamel on
solid cast iron.
★ No dirty fireplaces to
clean.
i( Full view of blazing
' fire through open or
closed front.
★ Lights in seconds,
warms entire room in
minutes.
if No smoke or dust to
soil furnishings.
Rmlocm fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ' ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL—REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
The secret of Warmray’s Amazing Efficiency is the
Patented Heating Tubes (illustrated above), which
are built Into the firebox. The air in the room
passes through these tubes continuously, thus
maintaining an even warmth in every part of the
room.
it BURNS ALL SOLID FUELS
WOOD IS CLEANEST.
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and Hardware
Merchants everywhere.
BUT NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
WARMRAY PTY, LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney
Telegrams: “Warmray.” BL 2217
If unobtainable locally, phone, write or call for
illustrated Brochure and name of nearest agents.
long Mr. Kaye’s latent talent
for clowning is discovered by
the shrewd old Italian who
runs the show. The school-
room seems far away as he
dons inflatable suits and gets
whisked up to the top of the
Big Top, and when, still
pursuing his half-forgotten
archaeology, he digs his way
up into the centre of the
lions’ cage.
The general hilarity which
these and other droll situa-
tions evoke is given an extra
kick along by the presence of
the damsel’s five ferocious
brothers, anxious to exercise
their mercurial Latin tempera-
ment at the drop of a hat, and
particularly whenever they
observe Danny showing the
slightest sign of amorousness
towards their sister.
' Johnny Mercer’s lyrics have
a good modicum of wit, the
music is tailored to' fit and
the comedian’s singing and
dancing are all top-bracket.
At Sydney St. James.
♦j*
“The Lady Takes a Flyer”
What little action there is in
this tepid tale of two pilots
who ferry four - engined
bombers, ex-disposal, and who
team-up as business partners,
then as marital partners, is
cluttered every "few feet with
long sessions of mush or
domestic barneys. There may
be someone less convincing as
a pilot of a giant plane than
Lana Turner, but this com-
mentator hasn’t so far struck
her. Jeff Chandler, as the other
half of the team, has to struggle
hard to appear interested in
the singularly stupid plot.
At Sydney Victory.
Stage and Music
Patrick O’Hagan
One thing calculated to make
any critic bite chunks out of
his programme is the execrable
falsetto note used for a spec-
tacular climactic effect —and
Irish tenor Patrick O’Hagan
demonstrated at his first recital
at Sydney Town Hall on Satur-
day night that he is particularly
addicted to it. His light voice is
of reasonably fair quality, but
it has practically no color-range
for the expression of emotion ;
as a result his songs have a
sameness which is only slightly
less tedious than the platform-
blarney which he apparently
feels is expected of him.
Traditional Irish songs, with
the accent heavily on nostalgia
and sentiment, make up the
bulk of Mr. O’Hagan’s
offerings; he wasn’t conspic-
uously successful where humor
was called for, nor in his brief
excursion into the realms of
French and Italian song.
David Fox accompanied with
taste and discretion, and his
solo pieces, if not exceptional
pianism, were pleasant to listen
to.
❖ ❖, ❖
“Hotel Paradiso”
For their policy of presenting
in Brisbane, at times even con-
temporaneously with London,
the many Anouilh, Roussin,
Giraudoux, Betti and Piran*
dello pieces, vive le theatre
cT amateurs !
The latest, Feydeau's “Hotel
Paradiso,” from the Twelfth
Night Theatre, was not so
worthy of the group’s efforts as
the others. Neither the
characters nor the dialogue of
French farce takes kindly to the
anglicising-process. It is almost
as though our Teutonic-based
speech and gestures fail to cope
with the sheer ephemerality of
the original.
In Joan Whalley’s produc-
tion, only Alan Depby, as
manager of the Hotel Paradiso,
and the Muir-Smiths could have
been transplanted without loss
to Theatre Antoine, and Pat
Withers's demi-mondaine with
profit to Place Pigalle.
In the central act, dominated
by these people, Miss Whalley’s
control of movement was
amazing. A pity that the final
act offered so little scope for
a similar producer’s tour-de-
force.
Val Vallis.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Six Characters in Search
of an Author”
Canberra Repertory’s per-
formance of Pirandello’s “Six
Characters in Search of an
Author” really left one with
much to talk about
First, the play: its insistence
that neither God nor man can
help us to bear the anguish we


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH W/ALES —In Divorce.
TO MARGARETA PEARL CARROLL
formerly of South Melbourne Victoria.
—TAKE NOTICE that ROY PATRICK
CARROLL has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3247 of 1957 on the
grounds of desertion for 3 years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
10th June 1958 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from W. D.
SCHRADER & DUDLEY, 113 Pitt
Street, Sydney, New South Wales. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LESLIE-VICTOR JAMESON of 77
Ocean Street Woollahra. - TAKE
NOTICE that FAY ADA JAMESON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4401 of
1957 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street by ljtth June 1958 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge
from J. BIRNIE JACKSON & COATES,
Solicitors, of 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO NEVILLE LIONEL PHILLIPS.—
TAKE NOTICE that BERYL JOYCE
PHILLIPS has filed a, Petition for
Divorce &o. 901 of 1956 on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you
wish to defend you may enter an
apearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 6th day of June 1958 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge
from CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor,
107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
suffer for evil, its insistence
that in such experiences we are
all essentially alone.
Second, the producer, Albert
Arlen, who showed that by
hard thinking, planning, drill-
ing and discipline it is possible
to do a great but difficult play
with a note of quality and
distinction.
Third, the actors: Grant
Mclntyre, as the father, with
anguish on the face and pain
in the eyes, and speaking about
vileness —asking why a man
should be brought to destruc-
tion —yet retaining dignity and
courage though his moral cuffs
are tattered. And Joyce
Goodes, as the daughter, soiled
yet wanting to return to the
days of innocence, haunted by
one day of vileness. Here was
a performance in which voice,
gesture and stance created a
person who had to know why
man should drink iniquity like
water and yet be noble.
Then, for contrast, there was
Paul Krieg, as the producer, a
man prepared to cash-in on the
family’s darkness and despair.
And Jim Hutchins, as the son,
the unrealised one, the one
Strained to breaking-point but
determined not to be sucked
down to the family’s filth and
degradation.
If Nita Park, as the mother,
relied too much on sobbing to
express her anguish, and did not
represent the humility and
resignation which, according
to her daughter, she used to the
point of perversion; and if
Diana Encel did not quite
create the power of the
demonic Pace, at least they
both made their contributions
to this most notable production.
M. C.
❖ + ♦
“Adventure in Music”
This is an enlarged and more
attractive version of the old
A.B.C. pamphlet of the same
name by Sir Bernard Heinze.
It provides a quick and interest-
ing way of finding out about
orchestral and band instru-
ments. Each instrument has a
page to itself, its range is
clearly set-out and there is a
description of its characteristic
sound.
There is also a section on
musical tepms that might be
met in a concert-programme,
something on musical notation
and a useful list of books about
music. A time-chart relates
the lives of the great com-
posers to historical events,
showing, for example, that
Beethoven was born in 1770
and was at the height of his
career when Governor Phillip’s
Colony was tottering on the
shores of the Tank Stream
and the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra was unthought of,
There is almost too much
crammed into these 50 or so
pages, but the outline of music
is well done, and the slimness
of the book is welcome at a
time when most works on
music are hefty tomes. It will
be excellent for youngsters
going to their first youth-
concerts and for anyone else
who has come to like the
sound of an orchestra and
wants to take one apart piece
by piece,
D. J. M.
New Music in Sydney
By J.M.T.
WAD AYS the good
' symphony orchestra tries
to keep the classics alive, and
at the same time present a
constant flow of new works so
that the symphonic repertoire
will not become stultified for
listener and performer. In
almost every concert during
its 1958 subscription-season the
Sydney Symphony includes
either a first performance in
Australia or a modern work,
thus resuming the tradition
laid down by Goossens.
On looking through the
year’s programmes curiosity is
aroused by names which/as yet
have no associations with
sound —Joseph Tal, Tubin and
Bentson. Tal, whose symphony
will be heard in April, now
lives in Jerusalem, where he is
Principal of the Music
Academy, but writes in the
style of the German
modernists.
Among the other interesting
modern works is Honegger’s
fifth Symphony (Di Tre
Re) and the Khachaturian
Violin Concerto, both to
be heard in May under
the young Belgian conductor,
Edouard van Remoortel. One
of the fruits of Nicolai Malko’s
summer visit to Scandinavia
is the fifth symphony of Tubin,
another composer unknown
here.
Born ,in Estonia, Tubin now
lives in Sweden and his com-
positions are based on the folk-
music of his native country.
They include five symphonies,
two violin concertos and a
concerto for double - bass.
Another Scandinavian is the
Dane- Jorgen Bentson, a
former student of Carl Neilsen,
whose Variations will be
played.
One of the most interesting
of the modern German com-
posers is Boris Blacher, who
will be represented by his
Paganini Variations. Blache r's
experience of life and the many
disruptions to his career have
given his music a satire and
irony which, combined with a
stringent personal honesty and
a brilliant technique, would
make his only symphony a
work worth hearing.
Not exactly modern, but a
great work of its kind, is the
seldom-heard Bruckner Ninth
Symphony, which Kubelik will
conduct. From Hindemith we
will hear a transitional work
written in 1932, the “Phil-
harmonic Concerto” and, also
in October, what promises to
be one of the most exacting
works, Alban Berg’s “Suite”
from his unfinished opera
“Lulu.” This suite was
actually the last music by Berg
to be heard before his death.
As usual it has great economy
of means, all the musical
episodes of the opera being
derived from a single twelve-
note series connected with the
character of Lulu —“the street-
walker of love.”
The only work by an Aus-
tralian comes from our most
a c c o mplished symphonist,
Robert Hughes, and is his “Sin-
fonietta,” especially composed
for the Halle centenary cele-
brations last year. The Sydney
Symphony’s many virtuoso
players should enjoy Bartok’s
brilliant display-piece, his
Concerto for Orchestra, after
which the year exhausts
itself in the following month
with Scriabin’s “Poeme
d’Extase,” whose fin-de-siede
ardors hardly seem appropriate
to this climate.
It is not possible in one
year’s programmes to cover all
those parts of the world where
composers are working, and
some countries have been com-
pletely omitted. Modern
American composers still
remain something of a mystery
—William Schumann, Peter
Mennin, Harris and Creston,
for instance. But as America’s
own orchestras are constantly
being upbraided for neglecting
their own composers we can to
some extent salve our con-
sciences.
Although America has more
orchestras and music groups
than any other country in the
world, most of them plod along
familiar paths, and it is left
to orchestras such as the Louis-
ville, specially financed by the
Rockefeller Organisation, and
the reorganised New York
Philharmonic, under Bernstein,
to do much musical pioneering.
As for English composers,
Walton’s symphony is a good
representative, and next year
it may be possible to hear
Vaughan Williams’s ninth. In
Germany many composers are
more-or-less chained to elec-
tronic machines and this tech-
nique, still entirely a cerebral
one, has not yet vindicated
itself as an artistic expression.
If electronic music is debarred
from the concert-hall, there are
other composers we are curious
about—von Einem, Blacher
and Heiller.
When they are ready it will
be time for the Australian
composers to enter the scene,
Still the underprivileged of this
country’s artists, they now
seem to have realised more
strongly than ever that their
immediate task is to strive
passionately for their own
musical idiom, something which
at present eludes most but is
waiting to be given an
utterance.


Safeguard! your Estate
Tte Trustees Executors & Agent#
£O»Pm
1 TO
in Vittorio in 1(71
TR57.34
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
by appointing Tlie- Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. Executor of
your Will.
Advantages: Security . . . Continuity . . . Expert Management . . .
Impartiality ... Accessibility ... Secrecy .. . Continuous Audit .. . Moderate
Charges . . . Fidelity to Trust.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company as your Executor either alone or
jointly with some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £972, 812.
A. R. L. Wiltshire. C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney
J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; W.
Campbell; T. L. Webb.
Jones;
E. M.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., <?.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C
C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Kauri Timber Co., Ltd.
THE rapid and, at times, spectacular
growth of the Kauri Timber group
over the last 10 years hasn’t, as yet, added
any stability to earnings, and the organisa-
tion proved particularly vulnerable to
changes in economic conditions last term,
turning-in a net loss of £15,016. Net
profit dropped from £414,273 to £323,211
in the 1955-56 term.
Many of the problems encountered by
the group last year sprang from the
limited amount of finance available for
homebuilding, other factors contributing
to the deficit —the first for 25 years—
including the temporary closing of
timber-mills in Tasmania and difficulties
associated with the marketing of
Westralian timbers.
Biggest organisation of its kind in
Australia, the 70-year-old Kauri Timber
Co. and its large family of subsidiaries
are in business as sawmillers, timber-
importers and timber-, hardware- and
steel-merchants. The group’s main free-
hold and leasehold timber-stands are in
W.A., N.Z., Tasmania, Victoria and the
Solomon Islands, the milling and drying
of local timbers being carried-out in all
Australian States and N.Z.
Numerous small timber - millers,
plywood-manufacturers, steel-merchants,
etc., have been absorbed in the post-
war years as part of an expansion pro-
gramme which has, as its ultimate
objective, “a complete coverage to the
trade, in every major centre, of the
building-industries’ requirements of
timber, steel and hardware.”
Following the acquisition, in the pre-
ceding term, of S.A. steel-merchant
J. Sankey Robinson, Ltd., the parent co.
last year issued 130,000 £1 ords. at a
premium of £20,042 in exchange for the
share-capital of Industrial Products of
Australia Pty. (steel-merchant, W.A.)
and £380,000 of 7 p.c. notes to the
vendors of “certain forests and assets”
at Mt. Gambier (S.A.). Early in the
current term Leask Corp. Pty., a Sydney-
based hardware- and timber-merchant,
was brought into the Kauri orbit at a
cost of £195,354 in £1 ords. Leask Corp.
will distribute portion of the output from
various timber-mills and plywood- and
coreboard-factories and give the group
its first hardware outlet in N.S.W.
Up till the end of 1955 the funds
needed to finance the expansion pro-
gramme had come, mainly, from the
bank, retained earnings, £715,000 of 4 p.c.
debenture-money and the issue of 500,000
£l5 p.c. prefs., the latter redeemable in
annual instalments between 1955 and
1969.
However, ord. capital was doubled by
a one-for-one par issue in December,
1955—after remaining unchanged for 35
years—a one-for-five par issue and
simultaneous note- and share-issues (each
bringing-in £250,000) following within
12 months. Including scrip issued to
former shareholders in Leask Corp., ord.
capital now totals £2,375,354, or more
than three times the total at the end of
the 1955 term.
The accumulation of reserves could
hardly have been expected to keep pace
with the growth of the share-capital, but
a cautious div.-policy left available for
reinvestment in the business a large share
of the profits won in recent years. As a
result, Kauri was able to maintain the
basic 8 p.c. ord. div.-rate last term
(omitting the 2 p.c. bonus-div. sent out
in 1956) without much difficulty. Net
earnings over the five preceding terms
averaged 29.1 p.c. on ord. capital, after
covering pref. divs., while the ord. div.-
rate over the same period averaged only
8.4 p.c.
Several sections of the business con-
tinued to earn “substantial profits”
during the year to August 31 last, but
the slip in homebuilding and the con-
sequent slackness in demand for many of
the lines handled by the group led to a
sharp fall in turnover and to “unprofit-
able merchandising operations” in the
“major Australian distributing-centres.”
Collective - marketing arrangements
operating in W.A. and “competition at
unprofitable prices” from a Government-
controlled competitor also affected earn-
ings, and, with overhead expenses geared
to a high rate of turnover, the board
found it necessary to provide £115,293,
in the consolidated accounts, to cover the
losses of six subsidiary cos.
The £15,516 loss returned by the group
as a whole was arrived at after deducting
profits attributable to outside shareholders
(£50,519) and providing £199,044 (down
£150,945) for taxation and £321,979 (up
£80,726) for depreciation:
Kauri Timber and Subsidiaries.f
, Dividends To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Pref.Ord. Total. serves. serves.*
1952. .281,109 Y *B°' 85,000 196,109 521,175
Tax overprovided, £35,977 .. .. 557,152
Fire insurance recovered, etc.,
£86,363 643,515
Net addition reserves, £87,500 .. 731,015
1953. .170,276 5 8 »5,000 85,276 816,291
Tax overprovided, £1899 .. .. 818,190
Net addition reserves, £123,260 . . 941,450
1954.. 5 8 85,000 236,872 1,178,322
Tax overprovided, £1383 .. .. 1,179,705
Net addition reserves, £26,484 .. 1,206,189
Added intangibles, £38,946 . . 1,167,248
1955. .414,273 5 8 85,000 325,274 1,492,616
Added intangibles, £141,177 .. 1,351.339
Tax underprovided, £3BO .. .. 1,350,959
Pre-acquisiticn loss, £8232 .. 1,347.727
Unexplained reduction, £159,661 .. 1,188,066
1956. .323,211 5 10 158,350 164,861 1,352,927
Tax underprovided, £lO3l .. .. 1,351,896
Less added intangibles, £75,431 . . 1,276,465
Surplus, revaluation freeholds,
£292,662 .. .. .. .. 1,569,127
Pre-acquisition losses, £2168 .. 1,566,959
Share-premiums, £20,040 .. .. 1,587,001
Unexplained addition, £49,263 .. 1,636,264
Loss.
1957.. 15,%16 5 8 194,327 1,426,421
t After deducting- outside shareholders’ interests.
* After deducting intangibles, £1,134,907 at
30/6/37,
Pref. and ord. divs. required £194,327, or
£35,977 more than in the previous term,
unchanged pref. and ord. div.-rates on
the present paid capital calling for
£210,078.
The £680,000 increase in ord. capital
over the year, proceeds of the note-issue
and a further £188,785 raised on
mortgage helped to strengthen working-
capital (up £539,348 at £1,707,598), but,
despite a £292,662 surplus on revaluation
of freeholds, the increase in total
liabilities left Kauri shareholders with
only 14s. 3d. in the business, at balance-
date, for every £1 of outside money.
By the end of the year the overdraft, up


£453,564 at £3,364,361, exceeded paid
capital by £783,361:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1955. 1956. 1957.
Pa p d ref CaPltal ~.. £467,000 £434,000 £401,000
Ord .. 750,000 1,500,000 2,180,000
Reserves .. 2,410,815 2,412,403 2,561,328
Outside interests 658,159 694,816
Debentures .. 715,000 715,000 715,000
Mortgages .. 6,000 5,000 1|3,785
Notes ••—» ——* boU,UUu
Overdraft' .. 2,280,275 2,910,797 3,364,361
Sundry creditors* T,252,761 1,841,470 1,750,418
Inter-co. suspense 30,682 8,089
Final divs. .. 37,500 105,000 107,892
£8,607,192 £10,626,575 £12,629,631
Properties .. 1,353,555 1,629,280 2,328,451
Plant, etc. .. 1,199,641 1,844,341 2,043,967
Shares other cos. 67,951 67,961
Stocks 3,264,261 4,202,964 4,926,633
Debtors .. 1,511,937 1,563,711 1,781,899
Cash, etc. .. 291,548 258,842 221,737
Inter-co. suspense —_
Intangibles •• 918,299 1,059,476 1,134,907
£8,607,192 £10,626,575 £12,629,631
* Including tax-provision, etc.
Excluding revaluation-adjustments, a net
£606,135 was added to the book-value
of fixed assets, extensions to plant and
freeholds in several States, as well as the
absorption of industrial Products and
purchase of the Mt. Gambier forests,
contributing to the increase. Stocks con-
tinued to bank-up, rising by £723,669
over the term to bring the total growth
in the past two years to £1,662,372.
“Drastic economies” helped to put the
group back on a profit-earning basis
last October, and, in an endeavor to
stimulate demand, * arrangements have
been completed under which “adequate
finance on favorable terms” will be made
available to builder-clients, and, through
them, to prospective home-buyers. In'
addition, Kauri has decided to withdraw
from the collective-marketing scheme
applying to certain Westralian timbers and
organise its own marketing arrangements.
The extent of the group’s recovery in
the current term will be determined,
partly, by the level of homebuilding and,
while it appears that a somewhat larger
amount will be available for this purpose
in 1958, latest figures issued by the Com-
monwealth Statistician show a 9.5 p.c.
drop in the number of new homes com-
menced during the quarter to December
31 last, when compared with figures for
the preceding quarter, and a fall of
4.5 p.c. over the same period in the
number of new homes under
construction.
Supported by net tangible assets of
335. Id. (consolidated accounts at
August 31 last), the f.-p. £1 ords. sold
last week at par.
Hardie Trading, Ltd.
A WIDE spread of interests gives
Hardie Trading, Ltd., a degree of
protection against variations in sectional
trading-conditions and a weakening in
demand, last term, from several of the
numerous industries served by the co.
failed to prevent both turnover and profit
reaching record levels.
Merchant and manufacturer, Hardie
trading has displayed plenty of earning-
power over the 12 years since the public
obtained a share-interest in its 70-year-
old business, a well-covered 12£ p.c. div.
going out to ord. shareholders in each of
the last seven years, to bring the average
rate of distribution as a public co. to 11.7
p.c.
A one-for-10 bonus-issue last October
—the fourth such issue in four years
completed the return of share-
premiums collected in earlier years,
lifting paid capital to £829,394 in the
process. There are 150,060 £1 5 p.c.
prefs., the balance of the share-capital
being in f.-p. £1 ords.
The co. imports, and distributes
through branches and subsidiaries in all
Australian States and New Zealand,
textile- and tanning-machinery, chemicals
and dyestuffs, as well as a wide range of
supplies for use by engineers, electro-
platers and paper-manufacturers.
Manufacturing-offshoots and -asso-
ciates are:
Spartan Paints Pty., maker of paints,
enamels, varnishes, etc. Operates factories
in ail States except Tasmania.
E. Horscroft Pty., largest producer of
dry - cleaning and industrial - laundry
machinery in Australia.
James Hardie Trading Co. Pty., manu-
facturer of car-polishes, rubbing com-
pounds and adhesives. Also carries on a
mechandising business similar to that of
the parent co.
Proud Bros. Pty., manufacturer of
foundry-facings.
Australian Bobbins Pty. (half-interest),
largest Australian manufacturer of
wooden bobbins for the textile trades.
Peco-Hardie Pty. (minority interest),
- formed in association with Projectile and
Engineering Co., Etd. (U.K.), to produce
injection-moulding machines previously
imported by Hardie Trading.
Spartan Paints, has been successful in
building up its export trade in recent
years, in the face of strong competition
from local and foreign manufacturers,
and now has sales-outlets in 10 countries.
As many of the products handled by
the group are of a basic nature, import-
restrictions have not seriously hindered
the development of the organisation,
and with constant additions to the range
of products turned-out locally, group-
turnover has risen substantially over
the past four years.
' All operating - subsidiaries traded
profitably over the year to June 30 last,
and, although sales of some lines
declined, another “satisfactory” increase
in total turnover helped to counteract
“the effect of inevitable cost-increases.”
Net earnings, as shown in the pub-
lished accounts, advanced by £24,040 to
£197,032, after allowing £72,225 (up
£11,864) for depreciation, but the actual
result was even better, as the provision
for taxation (up £2673 at £163,833)
was calculated' on the now-superseded
rates of tax:
Hardie Trading, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
f Dividends \
Pref. To Re- Re-
June Profit.* 5 p.c. , —I—Ord. 1 —Ord. serves, serves.f
30, £ £ p.c. £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £6479 .. .. 65T>,745
From tax reserve, £22,190 . . .. 672,935
Unexplained addition, etc., £26,043.. 698,978
1954- 7503 12J = 57,999 85,138 784,116
Reserves capitalised, £46,400.. .. 737,716
Profit sale assets, £4556 .. .. 742,272
From tax-provision, £8425 .. .. 750,697
Unexplained addition, £ll4 .. .. 750,811
1955- 7503 = 63,799 104,223 855,034
Reserves capitalised, £51,040 .. 803,994
Profit sale assets, £7559 .. ~ 811,553
From tax-provision, £1732 .. .. 813,285
Unexplained addition, £ll3 .. .. 813,398
1956- 7503 = 70,180 95,809 908,707
Reserves capitalised, £56,143 .. 852,564
Tax overprovided, etc., £8055 ~ 860,620
Profit, sale assets, £4166 .. .. 864,786
1957- 7503 12J = 77,197 112,332 977,118
Reserves capitalised, £61,758 .. 915,360
* After deducting outside shareholders’ interests and
contributions to staff fund, f Subject to intangibles,
£181,514 at 30/6/’57.
The pref. div. required £7503 of the
£l97,o32 profit, the balance equalling
30.7 p.c. on ord. capital (increased by a
one-for-10 bonus-issue during the year),
compared with 29.5 p.c. in the 1956 term
and 32.9, 32.6 and 24.6 p.c. on the lower
capitals employed in the thfee years back
to 1953. Turnover “continued at a satis-
factory level” in the first quarter of the
current term.
With the purchase of a building in
Launceston (Tas.) last year, the co. and
its subsidiaries now own 21 of the 26
properties they occupy throughout Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, last term’s out-
lay on freeholds adding £70,336 to their
cost-or-valuation book-value. Retained
earnings easily covered the total capital-
expenditure, working-capital growing by
£40,557 to £806,098 over the year:
Parent and Subsidiary.
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital—
Pref .. ... £150,060 £150,060 £150,060
Ord 51 0,3 9 3 561,43 3 617,576
Reserves .. .. 855,034 908,/07 977,118
Outside shareholders 51,25 0 51,2 5 0 51,250
Mortgage .. .. 13,782 13,782 13,782
Overdraft • • . . 165,794 320,164 201,908
Deposits .. ~ 72,784 77,860 93,771
Sundry creditors ~ 742,559 687,017 850,760
Tax provision, etc. 141,210 161,285 163,953
Final divs, .. 67,551 73,932 80,949
£2,770,417 £3,010,490 £3,201,127
Freeholds .. ,• 4 4 0,85 1 4 9 2,66 7 5 63,003
Leaseholds .. 2 4 9 2 4 9 249
Plant, etc. .. 2 07,9 2 6 2 3 2,26 1 2 3 6,222
Shares other cos. 13,000 13,000 22,700
Stock .. .. 1,130,6 3 9 1,2 2 0,3 7 8 1,303,273
Debtors ..., .. 775,551 854,680 893,008
Cash .. ~ 3,095 15,741 1,158
Intangibles .. 199,106 181,514 181,514
£2,770,417 £3,010,490 £3,201,127
Additions to stocks (up £82,895) and
book-debts (up £38,328) were in line with
the higher turnover, a £163,743 increase
in the amount owing to the trade and
sundry creditors and a further £15,911
from depositors providing portion of the
funds needed to finance these movements
and the £123,256 reduction in the over-
draft.
The sharemarket expresses its con-
fidence in the undertaking by pricing the
L-p. £1 ords. at 555. 6d. (475. a year ago)
for a return of £4 10s. Id. p.c. from a 12?
p.c. div. Net tangible assets backing at
June 30 last, after allowing for the
bonus-scrip issued in the current term,
was 41s. 7d. .
Davies, Coop and Co., Ltd.
UNRUFFLED by the alarums and
crises which periodically trouble the
textile world, the two leaders of the
rapidly growing Australian cotton-textile
industry, Davies, Coop and Bradford
Cotton Mills, have built-up joint and
several reputations as reliable investment
stocks, with “growth” prospects.
The two groups have run strikingly
parallel courses since the public got a
foothold in the two cos. in 1935, since
when earning-potential and dividend-
policy have conformed to a similar pattern
in both cases. Both were nurtured from
infancy in the ’twenties by a solicitous
Government, and extended their shoots
pari passu, until the war-time and post-
war booms brought them to their present
stature, whereby each has about a two-
fifths interest in an industry concentrated
mainly in Victoria and N.S.W., with
approximately 10,000 operatives on an


A.C.A.
policies
are good
policies
for...
LIFE,
FIRE, ACCIDENT
& GENERAL
INSURANCES
get yours to-day!
THE
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Incorporate* in New South Wales)
annual payroll in excess of £7
million and an investment in
fixed assets around the £ll-
- mark.
Like its rival, Davies, Coop is
a “coarse” spinner and weaver,
turning-out yarns of medium-
to-coarse. counts, canvas and
duck, jeans, denims, drills,
cotton-tweeds, etc.; in short,
industrial weaves which in the
main become the raw-materials
of the other manufacturers.
To complement its basic
activities, Davies, Coop also
appears in the roles of textile-
printer, dyer, preshrinker and
finisher of cloth, knitter of
underwear and outer-wear,
and manufacturer of flax-
canvas and tyre-cord. Mind-
ful of the competition of
synthetic fibres, a threat which
has already crystallised in the
case of tyre-cord, the board
is .actively fostering the spinning
and weaving of rayon,
While the board is reticent
about the co.’s turnover, returns
for the industry as a whole
reflect the effect of import-
restrictions last year. Output
reached peak levels; yarn-
production was 5 p.c. higher at
42.6 million lb., and 48.2 million
sq. yd. of cloth came off the
looms (20 p.c'. more than in
the previous year). The
increases were not entirely
uniform ; demand for knitting-
yarn is tending to favor the
finer imported counts; while
the production of cotton tyre-
cord and canvas and duck has
shown a decline.
Some easing of all-round
demand is noticeable in recent
months as buyers restrict
forward orders until the present
ill - defined trading - position
resolves itself.
Consolidated net profit
followed production - trends,
and the group notched pother
record by claiming £479,000' (up
£25,986) after providing
£151,097 (up £21,455) for
depreciation and £307,500 (up
£19,000) for taxation, calculated
at current rates. Odds-and-ends
for the year included £37,500
of share-premiums from the
Minster deal early in the term,
whereby Davies, Coop issued
150,000 stock-units as part-
consideration for the assets, less
freehold, of Sydney Cotton
Mills, Ltd., bought in the
previous year by Minster,
Ltd.:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, -Dividends N
Pref. Re-
Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.*
Jne., £ £ p.c. £ £
Profit sale land, £55,000 1,285,164
From tax reserve, .
£50,216 .. ..1,835,380
Added intangibles, £221 1,335,159
1954
338,026 18,000 1,407,158
Assets revalued,
£1,196,397 .. ..2,603,555
Less addition intangibles,
£213 2,603,342
1955
373,713 18,000 15 =263,719 2,695,336
Tax overprovided, £BOO 2,703,336
Provision long - service
leave (accumulated),
£28,753 .. ..2,674,583
Profit sale freehold,
£14,183 .. ..2,688,766
1956 — -
453,914 18,000 15 =335,186 2,789,494
Share premiums, £37,500 2,826,994
Added intangibles,
£25,000 .. .. 2,801,994
1957
479,900 18,000 15 =340,811 2,923,083
* After deducting intangibles, £47,316,
at June 30, 1*957.
Fund-seeking is apparently
not going to inconvenience
stockholders, who again
received 15 p.c. on their ords.,
which absorbed £340,811. Profit
for the ords. was £461,900, and,
following the usual consistent
pattern, earning-rate on av.
ord. capital last year was 20.4
p.c., compared with 19.5, 20.2,
20.9, 18.7 p.c. back to 1953.
During the year the board
gave the green-light to a pro-
gramme for expanding and re-
equipping the organisation
throughout, and total invest-
ment is expected to be of the
order of £2 million. Projects
already under way include a
new head-office, of three stories
initially, in Melbourne’s Lons-
dale Street; extensions to the
Footscray (Vic.) dyehouse ; and
the transfer of the Sydney sub-
sidiary from Marrickville to
Rydalmere, another more-out-
lying suburb, where a modern
mill is to be erected and
furnished with plant of a radi-
cally new design.
Finance for these and other
purposes has come in part from
a loan negotiated with the
A.M.P. last term, and more


INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance-Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant super-
vision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
lfl Spring: Street, SYDNEY - BU 3445
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Kapid Magnettingr Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classitlers,
Water Eilters, Steam Valves,
etc.
recently, in the current year,
a convertible note-issue brought
in another £1,136,036, while last
week an issue of £l| million of
8 p.c. notes opened and closed
on the same day, heavily over-
subscribed. In each case the
notes are unsecured.
The convertible notes were
issued at par in the ratio of
one note for eight ord. stock-
units and, at maturity on
December 31, 1963, are con-
vertible to four ss. ord. stock-
units. Holders participate in
any new issues on this basis.
In view of the December and
April note-issues, the balance-
sheet at June 30, 1957, gives an
incomplete picture of current
trends:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957.
Paid capital* .. £2,534,571 £2,572,071
Reserves .. 2,811,810 2,970,399
Mortgage .. 25,000 975,000
Overdraft, net .. 611,886 460,315
Creditors .. 750,658 681,666
Tax provision .. 288,886 309,851
Final div. .. 176,593 179,406
£7,199,404 £8,148,708
Freeholds .. 2,246,098 2,336,310
Plant, etc. .. 1,375,243 1,543,067
Shares other cos. 37,684 37,684
Stocks .. .. 2,281,458 2,572,587
Book etc. 1,236,605 1,611,744
Intangibles . ■„ 22,316 47,316
£7,199,404 £8,148,708
* Includes £300,000 of 6 p.c. cum.
prefs.
At the end of the year work-
ing capital (consolidated figures)
showed-Up £863,053 stronger,
with bank overdraft falling by
£151,571, creditors by £68,992,
while book-debts figured for
an extra £375,139, and stocks, at
cost or under, were up £291,129
to the high, but normal, figure
of £2,572,587. Another £90,212
was tacked-on to freeholds,
which were .revalued by
£1,196,397 in 1954 as a pre-
liminary to fund-raising, and
plant taken over from Sydney
Cotton Mills was responsible
for part of the £167,824 rise
in plant and machinery.
Share - capital movements
during the year were confined
to the Minster issue. Apart
from the recent note-issues,
stockholders were last asked
to consult their finances in
October, 1952, when 2,000,000
ss. ordinaries paid to 2s. 6d.
were issued at par in the ratio
of one-for-two ords. About
the same time, an agreement
in connection with techniques,
patents and trade - marks
resulted in the allotment to
Bradford Dyers Association
(U.K.) of 1,800,000 shares at
par.
Discounting the possible
repercussions of a more
generous scale of import-
licensing and the entry of
Japanese mills into the market
for heavy-duty cotton-piece-
goods, . investors currently
roughly equate the yields of
Davies, Coop stock and Brad-
ford shares by offering 10s. for
the ss. ords. for a return 7.5
p.c. On consolidated book-
values at June 30 last, net
tangible assets backing was
£lB 6s. 4d. for the prefs. and
11s. sd. for the ords.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd.
HIGHER expenses, rather
than any significant
decline in turnover, seem to
have been mainly responsible
for the sharply reduced net
profit earned by J. C. Ludowici
and Son, Ltd., last term, and,
as development-costs and
items of a non-recurring nature
were included with expenses,
the final result was, perhaps,
less disappointing than it
might appear at first glance.
The slip certainly hasn’t
shaken the sharemarket’s con-
fidence in J. C. Ludowici scrip,
and, with the co.’s substantial
reserves (partly tax-free) and
liberal div.-policy in mind, the
market prices the f.-p. £1 ords.
at 50s. 6d. (455. 6d. a year ago)
to return £5 18s. lOd. p.c. from
a continued 15 p.c. distribution.
Accounts at December 31 last
show net tangible assets of
70s. sd. supporting each £1 ord.
The co., which last term
celebrated the hundredth
anniversary of the founding of
its business, describes itself as
a power-transmission engineer,
manufacturer and merchant.
Leather transmission-belting,
and industrial leathers
generally, have long been
among J. C. Ludowici’s main
products, but, over the years,
manufacturing activities have
been extended to cover pulleys,
drives, bearings, gears, oil-
seals, plastic-bonded belting,
synthetic - rubber mouldings,
industrial gloves, etc.
To complete the range of
power-transmission equipment
the co. distributes a number of
allied lines, including electric
motors and switchgear. Head-
quarters are in Sydney, where
freehold factories are estab-
lished in the suburbs of Lane
Cove and Marrickville, and
there are branches in Mel-
bourne and Adelaide.
Ord. capital, £125,000,
reached its present level
following a one - for - four
bonus-issue in 1950, £50,000
being raised by the issue of
5 p.c. prefs. in the same year.
Another £50,000 of 6 p.c.
second-pref. money lifted total
paid capital to £225,000 in
1952. A 15 p.c. ord. div. has
gone out in all but one of the
last 10 years, a 12 p.c. div. in
1953 leaving the average rate
over the decade at 14.7 p.c.
The board’s policy in recent
years has been directed
towards reducing the co.’s
dependence on leather products
by the development of lines
offering greater prospects of
expansion. In accordance with
this policy, both the industrial-
glove and rubber-moulding
factories were enlarged last
term, and new plant installed
for use in the production of
P.V.C. work-gloves and plastic-
bonded belting. In addition,
extensive alterations were made
to the Melbourne warehouse.
Further development “designed
to improve sales-level and
earning-capacity” is planned
for the current year.
Capital - expenditure last
term exceeded £50,000, depre-
ciation and sales leaving the
net addition to book-values at
£39,851. Freeholds are in the
accounts at 1956 valuation,
with subsequent additions at
cost, other fixed assets being
shown at cost, less deprecia-
tion.
To assist in financing last
year’s capital - outlay a
mortgage-loan of £50,000 was
obtained (further funds are
stated to be available from the
same source) so that although
most of the profit won last
term went in divs., finances
were kept in reasonably good
shape:—
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref. .. £lOO,OOO £lOO.OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord. . . 125,000 125,000 125,000
Reserves .. 108,578 307,490 314,886
Mortgage . 12,884 12,204 61,520
Overdraft . 93,616 95,275 93,363
Deposit held
sale assets 9,990
Creditors* . 83,219 91,536 71.680
Staff fund . 5,000 9,969
Final div. 9,800 9,800 9,800
£533,097 £746,305 £796,208
Freehold .. 119,892 319,011 345,012
Plant, etc. 56,151 73,175 87,025
Shares .. 24,378 24,378 34,378
Stock .. 195,034 187,761 182,029
Debtors, etc. 137,034 141,630 147,400
Cash .. 608 350 364
£533,097 £746,305 £796,208
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
When the accounts were ruled-
off (December 31 last) the
amount against sundry
creditors, tax-provision etc.,
was down by £19,856 and the
surplus of current assets over
current liabilities £7053 higher
at £134,298. Tlie £lO,OOO
increase in shares in other cos.
relates to a further investment
in A. Flavell, Ltd., in which a
substantial shareholding was
acquired in 1950.
(Melbourne-based manufac-
turer of automotive com-
ponents, oil- and grease-
retainers, etc., A. Flavell, Ltd.,
paid a 10 p.c. div. last term
and recently sent out an un-
changed 4 p.c. interim div. J. C.
Ludowici holds e xclusive
distributing-rights for some of
the co.’s products.)
Expenses involved in re-
organising the Melbourne
warehouse and relocating
plant in the Sydney factories,
along with increases in operat-
ing-expenses, absorbed a larger
share of last term’s revenue
and net profit fell by £10,565
to £24,802. An additional
£6844 came in as capital-
profits :
Re-
Dec., Profit. t serves.
£ £ £
p.c. p.c.
Pref. Ord. Total.
1953.. 21.106 5&6 12 20,500 79,088
1954.. 5&6 15 24,250 91,217
1955.. 610 5&6 15 24,250 108,577
Assets revalued, £192,795 301,372
1956. 5&0 15 24,250 312,489
To staff fund, £5OOO .. 307,489
Profit, sale assets, £6844 314,333
1957. 5&6 15 24,250 314,884
Covering the pref.-div. and
15.4 p.c. on ord. capital, as
against 23.9 p.c. in 1956 and
28.1 p.c. in 1955, the lower
profit was calculated after pro-
viding £2OOO for long-service
leave (an initial provision of
£5OOO in 1956 is treated as an
appropriation in the above
table), £16,000 (down £6000)
for taxation and £10,502 (up
£5039) for depreciation.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK HIGHGATE late of
Manly. TAKE NOTICE that JOY
LOVEL HIGHGATE has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 673 of 1953 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and is asking that the court exercise its
discretion in her favour under Section
19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act, 1899 If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 17th day of June 1958
and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from GREGG & MILNE.
Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO INGEBORG ROSWITHA CARNY
born KLIBOWITZ late of 31 Grove
Street Dulwich HiII.—TAKE NOTICE
that JAN CARNY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3036 of 1957 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and is asking that the court exercise
its discretion in his favour under Section
19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1899 If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by Bth May 1958 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge
from WILLIAM ARNOTT & POOLE.
Solicitors, of 9-11 Hunter Street, Sydney.
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
THE anti-inflationary drive
is now six months old.
Is it proving successful?
Although there appears to be
little change in the lives and
habits of the mass of the
people, below the surface there
are positive signs that the
severity of the Government’s
measures is being felt very
painfully in some quarters.
One important revelation is
that industry bears the major
load. Answers to a Federation
of British Industries question-
naire, sent to 750 companies
evenly spread as to size, show
that profit-margins have fallen
and that new orders are
harder to get. Employment
figures, especially when
expressed in hours worked,
have also declined.
Immediately, capital-invest-
ment is hardly changed, but
expenditure on both plant and
machinery is likely to be cut in
future and expenditure on new
buildings to be postponed.
The significant—and unusual
—feature is that the large com-
panies, which were least
affected by earlier “squeezes,”
have suffered more than the
smaller concerns.
Of the industries in the
sample, building and textiles
were badly affected; metals,
engineering and vehicles about
average ; and the food, drink
and tobacco trades rather
better than average.
While wage-payments have,
on the whole, fallen slightly
and the unemployment figures
have risen steeply in some
“development” areas, there is
nothing to suggest an increase
in unemployment generally.
So, in one sense, the position
is critical both for board-
rooms and for the Govern-
ment. These conditions will
continue, with the result that
industrialists are faced with
rising costs and wage-claims
but cannot increase their
prices.
The reduction in Bank-rate
makes conditions a shade
easier, but it is most unlikely
that the change was made with
this objective. Although it is
essential for our industry to
revert to expansion as soon as
can be, the Government wants
to cope first with inflation. A
6 p.c. Bank-rate is still a crisis
rate.
Transport and Coal
A critical stage has also
been reached on the labor
front. There is no money
available to grant wage-
increases to the busmen, the
railwaymen and the coal-
workers.
The busmen’s union put in
for a 255. rise for the London
drivers and conductors. The
industrial court awarded Bs. 6d.
to the Central London
men only and nothing to the
crews of the green buses and
coaches which operate out-
side the metropolis. This will
probably lead to a deadlock,
since the Government has
firmly denied both financial
help and consent to higher
fares.
Anticipating an “unsatis-
factory” award by the arbitra-
tion tribunal, the Manchester
district council of the National
Union of Railwaymen has
already formed a strike-com-
mittee. In neither instance are
the union-bosses militant, still
less happy, for they know that
any strike-action at present
would be ill-timed for the
workers, since public opinion
is so strongly against them —
and, of course, the public
would be the first to be
affected.
Moreover, the stage has now
been reached when any
increase in fares means a fall
in revenue. Because of the
high cost, people avoid travel-
ling long distances by rail and
increasingly use their own
transport for local journeys.
Furthermore, with the growth
of the motor industry and un-
restricted supplies of petrol,
more and more industrial
concerns use their own
Vehicles for carrying.
Similarly, the coal industry
is losing its paramountcy.
Alternative fuels, cleaner and
handier, are available, and
more coal is being produced
(at a high cost and subject to
a heavy incidence of absen-
teeism) than is needed. The
miners’ unions who have con-
sistently fought for higher
pay and shorter hours, are
now faced with a proposal
from the Coal Board that
would, in fact, amount to
lower earnings. The board
wants to stop the Saturday
work which, as overtime,
has added substantially to the
miners’ incomes.
The outcome of these
claims is of considerable
importance, for previous
awards in these categories have
served to set-off a whole series
of claims throughout industry.
Hazardous Drama
The English Stage Company
stands proud and triumphant
after two years’ continuous
occupation of the Royal Court
Theatre. This is no light
achievement, for the company
has adhered substantially
(though by no means rigidly) to
its original objective of dis-
covering new dramatists and
enabling their works to be per-
formed. Such experiments are
not just hazardous; they are
financially doomed. The
average weekly loss on a new
play (or, for that matter, on a
“quality” play by an estab-
lished author) is just under
£lOOO. Even the two John
Osborne plays owe their
astonishing success to external
factors: “Look Back in Anger”
because of a television excerpt
and “The Entertainer” because
Laurence Olivier took a fancy
to the title role.
George Devine, the artistic
director, though he typifies by
his dedication and single-
mindedness the uncommercial
man-of-the-theatre, is also
shrewd enough to appreciate
“star”-value (Ashcroft, Help-
mann and Olivier) and box-
office appeal (the bawdiness of
“The Country Wife” and
“Lysistrata”). Otherwise, the
enterprise might well have
foundered. For his ultimate
dream of a perfect theatre-
academy, he needs, it is said,
an annual subsidy of £15,000.
At present, the Arts Council
allows him £5,000.
The English Stage Company
has introduced two innova-
tions helpful to young writers.
One is the Sunday-night
rehearsed performance without
properties, costing nearly £100;
and the other is the team of
play-readers which looks-out
for, and nurtures, embryo
dramatists, even to giving
them free passes to rehearsals
as well as to performances.
Ibsen with Tears
An enterprising young
impresario, Michael Codron,
has rather boldly revived “Little
Eyolf” at the Lyric, Hammer-
smith, as the first of his four
new productions. It is, seen
through contemporary eyes, a
curious affair, in turn searing
and bathetic. There are
occasional bursts of titters at
the stilted turgidity of the
exchanges between' Rita and
Alfred Allmers. Here the act-
ing is in part responsible, for
Heather Chasen’s ice-cold
demeanor contrasts oddly
with her heavily - stressed
diction, and Robert Eddison,
though his interpretation is
intellectually faultless, seems
quite unable to relax, even
momentarily.
This is late Ibsen, and not
the best.. Passionate drama
(quite as “daring” as anything
by Tennessee Williams and
much truer to life), it can be
assessed only against a back-
ground of Victorian prudity
and repression. To be bluntly
Elizabethan, the theme of the
strong first act is lustfulness in
high places (here a landed
estate): Rita is obviously a
nymphomaniac, Alfred a sensi-
tive idealist whom she has sub-
jected and exhausted, and the
hapless Eyolf the indirect
victim of her addiction. Rid of
its symbolism, the complex
brother-sister relationship of
Alfred and Asta, and with a
more rational ending than the
sublimation into good works,
here is the stuff of powerful
drama intimately based on
real life.
There is craftsmanship too.
The little boy had to be
drowned in the first act so that
he would be out of earshot
when guilty, essentially adult
secrets were divulged. Though
Ibsen’s powers were reputed
to be failing, the touch of the
master was still evident: how
brilliantly he overcame the
enforced early climax, uphold-
ing the play and maintaining
the suspense.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—■
NAME
ADDRESS ...
r.'». . • f • . ■ .......... .. , ~ ,
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire; £2 13s. 6d. Foreign; £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
modern art, tracing the evil
from Egyptian times to modern
times. Although it would have
pleased some artists, it was
thousands of words too long
and entirely unsuitable for a
work of reference.
It is only fair to say, however,
that the majority of con-
tributors produced satisfactory
articles on the appointed day—
otherwise the Encyclopaedia
never would have been com-
pleted.
Illustrations, too, demanded
a lot of attention. The color-
plate of service-uniforms show-
ing the dress of the First Fleet
Marines, the New South Wales
Corps, and other nineteenth-
century units, required con-
siderable research, particularly
as to the color of the different
parts of the uniforms.
After the original plate was
completed and engraved, a
historian pointed-out that the
plate showed the belt of the
Sydney Volunteers as tan,
whereas the real color was
black.
This unwelcome item of
news was responsible for a
tedious and costly substitution
in the printing-blocks. Flags,
uniforms, and coats-of-arms
have to be handled with the
greatest of care in a work of
reference, and in this connec-
tion the guidance of the Prime
Minister’s Department at Can-
berra, the Department of the
Army, Melbourne, and the
College of Arms, London, was
indispensable,
The color-plate of early
stamps was responsible for a
succession of hurdles. At first
the P.M.G.’s Department
refused permission to reproduce
even historic stamps in color,
as it contravened the Post and
Telegraph Act. The publishers
of the Encyclopaedia pointed-
out that overseas publishers had
published certain Australian
stamps in color, and if they
were free to do so Australian
publishers should be in the same
position. The P.M.G.’s Depart-
ment appreciated the situation
and kindly turned the fed signal
to green,
The photographing of the
stamps was the next hurdle,
The cost of photographing, in
color, 20 stamps behind glass
in 20 different cabinets was
prohibitive, so another pro-
cedure had to be adopted,
By courtesy of the Australian
Museum, which houses the
Vickery Collection of stamps,
all the specimens required for
the Encyclopedia plate were
taken from their respective
cases, mounted on the one
sheet, and photographed in the
one shot. The result is a
color-plate which contains such
rarities as the Id. Sydney View
(1850), the New South Wales
2d. blue (1851) and the Western
Australian inverted frame (or
swan) of 1854.
The collecting and selecting
Coach-routes of Cobb and Co. in its heyday (about 1900).
—lllustration from “The Australian Encyclopaedia.”
of more than 1600 photographic
illustrations entailed making
contact with people in all parts
of Australia and with many
overseas. It meant correspond-
ence with Government depart-
ments, museums, libraries,
tourist - bureaux, municipal
councils, newspapers, business-
houses, private photographers
and a host of other sources.
From the Kimberleys came a
picture of a road-train; from
the Imperial War Museum,
London, a photograph of the
Battle of El Alamein ; from the
Bibliotheque Nationale, Paris,
permission to use a color-print
of an old Dutch ship ; from the
Deutsches Museum, Munich, a
photograph of one of Lawrence
Hargrave’s models ; and so on.
The Australian Encyclopaedia
is more than an encyclopaedia
of Australia. It is truly an
Australian encyclopaedia in a
national sense, reflecting the
friendliness, the spaciousness
and unconventionality of the
land that it portrays. In articles
such as First Fleet, Convicts
AND TRANSPORTATI O,N,
Squatters and Squatting,
Shepherds and Shepherding,
Eureka Stockade, Bushrang-
ing, Nineteen Counties, it
tells of the pioneering days of
Australia; in Bushcraft,
Cattle Industry, Droving,
Sheep Industry, Shearing,
Stock-routes, and others, it
brings a breath of the country’s
vast back-country ; in Electric
Power, Dams and Reservoirs,
Uranium, Iron - and - steel
Industry, and others of similar
nature, it records Australia’s
industrial progress; while in
Art, Music, Publishing,
Literature, Ballet, Philo-
sophy, it reveals that Australia’s
progress is not confined to
material things.


npQQP
oCOauanog
s«
■
OQDQ*I
QO
noo
OOQS
o 9
nQQQOg
m
\
/fe*
8S
s
46
( v
ft
&
9z
e>
m
\
What really counts in a good shave is thf
clean, fresh feeling that follows! Line up
water, lather and a super-sharp Blue Gillette
Blade that feeds instantly into a quick-action
Gillette Razor! Shave! Then run your finger-
tips over your chin! Your skin feels really
smooth and clean ... so cool, fresh and
comfortable! And it stays that way much
longer! Start today with a Gillette shave—
the most refreshing shave of all!
Gillette
shaves leave your face REFRESHED
QUICK-FEED
DISPENSER }
Dispensers come in
10-Blade and 20-Blade
sizes at no extra cost—4/4 and 8/8
ROCKET
SET
12/-
Bring your shaving up to date with a Gillette One-Piece Razor Set —From 12/- to W~ zmA


Henry Lawson’s Teachers
By CECIL MANN
WRITING his un-
finished “Fragment
of Autobiography,”
now housed in the
Mitchell Library in Sydney,
Henry Lawson had three shots
at spelling “Norwegian” —all
different.
Once he got it right, and you
suspect reference to the dic-
tionary which he more than
once mentions. The prize
specimen in the three attempts
is “Norweegean.”
The fact that in these par-
ticular entries, in different
chapters of the unsubedited
MS., he was referring to his
father —“My father was a
Norweegean sailor” makes
these spellings specially not-
able. They do not, however,
signify that Henry disliked his
father ; which would probably
be a Freudian first guess. The
frank record of his early days
leaves no doubt that he was
very fond of his father, well
beyond the fairly common sort
of admiration that he had for
his maternal grandfather,
Harry Albury, and abundantly
for his father also.
So, actually, what these
spellings of his father’s nation-
ality indicate is simply that
Henry couldn’t spell for nuts.
And before any 1950’5-model
schoolteacher upends a pen to
tell me how unimportant that
was, let mfe hastily say that I
wholly agree. To me the fact
that Henry’s spelling was so
bad as to merit being classed as
masterly doesn’t, in itself,
matter a hoot.
Henry himself says in effect
(in the same MS.) that he had
reached a stage where, in the
more modern phrase, he
couldn’t care less about it: “I
now leave it to the comps.”
One of the comps on the old
Brisbane “Boomerang,” Henry
also relates, used to say that
Henry’s spelling was “de-
moralising him.” As well it
might have done. It would
•demoralise a Quiz Kid.
Read the “Fragment of
Autobiography” in its green-
morocco binding in the
Mitchell Library, and if you
don’t write “opputunity” next
time the word comes your
way, and many another happy
one like it, I’ll back you at
spelling against anyone fash
enough to have you on.
TN that “opputunity” there is a
certain incidental signifi-
cance. It is one of the masterly
misspellings in which, in the un-
subedited “Fragment,” Henry
is fairly consistent, and consis-
tency was.never, anywhere, an
outstanding Henry charac-
teristic.
What this seems to amount
to is that that was how Henry,
HENRY LAWSON
like a good many more
of the careless rest of us, pro-
nounced the word.
From what I have myself seen
in sub-editing, and from other
observation, I am convinced
that a wide category of very
general misspellings—a cate-
gory that could be headed, for
reference purposes, “Opputu-
nity, Seperate”—reflects in
almost every instance precisely
how the spellers pronounce.
ation are, however, mostly a
matter of cash return. If your
line is, say, the stage, the one
Both spelling and pronunci-
becomes of pressing economic
importance, and if you haven’t
learnt it already you learn it,
and the same holds with the
other if, say, you are a proof-
reader. And in both, again, it
is not a matter of teaching, but
of learning.
If you have the rest of the
necessary capacity or ability,
and the economic necessity to
learn spelling or pronuncia-
tion, or anything of the sort,
is really there, you’ll learn it
all right.
And all that this comes
down to in Henry Lawson’s
case is that spelling any better
than he did wasn’t of vital im-
portance. To some extent, too,
in his case, the mispronuncia-
tion responsible for much of the
misspelling can be at once
ascribed to his early, and life-
pened to him until his twenties
he would no doubt have had no
claim to his sort of mastery in,
long, considerable deafness.
Had that misfortune not hap-
spelling.
MI7HAT does, however, seem
’ * to me of some signifi-
cance, in this particular con-
text, is not the spelling itself,
but the freely evident fact that,
despite his “leave it to the
comps,” he was, for a consid-
erable time at least, most
definitely self-conscious about
his educational shortcomings,
of which his spelling would be,
for him, the most obvious
symptom.
Here again his deafness was
a major handicap; but it
wasn’t everything. His genius
was in narrative writing, verse
and prose; his unsurpassed
literary quality was as pure
downright simplicity of truly
realistic storytelling as language
can manage ; his education was
sufficient for that purpose.
Indeed, it might not be
stretching argument too far to
say that his peculiar genius
demanded from him, and in-
sisted on his having, not a jot
more “education,” not a jot
more learning, than he
actually had.
It seems to me quite beyond
the point to contend that if he
had had this, that or the other,
we’d have had from him works
of genius comparable with the
world’s greatest: with such as
the shelf of Dickens novels
which so impressed and, in
some facets, influenced him.
Well, if we did have that
other imaginary Lawson we
might have had anything you
care to conjure up—but we
would not have had Henry.
And the same, incidentally,
seems to me to go for some-
thing else which another kind
of people—people who “haven’t
been there”—also regard as
most deplorable, and consider
to have stapped his vitals, or
something of the sort: I mean
his drinking.
Here, again, we may have
had this, that or the other, but
take away the work arising,
wholly or slightly, from his
“having been there,” and what
have you left? And, also, what
of the possibly necessary


sharpening and heightening
effects of the stimulus in his
case?
Well, whatever the alterna-
tive may have been, it certainly
would not have been Henry
Lawson as we affectionately
know him. And, as I see it,
taking together the work and
the man inseparably there in the
work, Henry Lawson is our one
single thus affectionately
regarded established Australian
classic. And I mean a living
classic. Reading him through
and through, so much of him
seems present in the natural
Australian national character
that it is an open question
whether he reported it, or
created it.
That is, as I said, taking the
man and his work together (and
I mean in the main his prose
work, not having yet tuned my
ear so closely to his verse).
Taking him thus, anyone, for
my part, can have any Henry-
might-have-been whatever, and
welcome. What he might have
been and wasn’t doesn’t trouble
me at all.
And going by the actual
Henry’s present high standing,
his persistent and increasing
popularity, I haven’t that sort
of regard for him altogether on
my own. So it is safe enough
guessing that by now many
more would have similarly
specially welcomed, and looked
into with the same sort of
pleasure, the neat little new
Lawson book with the brain-
wave title The Men Who Made
Australia, edited by Marjorie
Pizer and published by the Aus-
tralasian Book Society, Mel-
bourne.
As, for the most part, this is
a Henry Lawson first edition,
there is nothing extravagant in
calling it one of the top pub-
lishing events of 1957. It
makes generally available 20
Lawson poems (the book-title
is from one of them), 17 of his
prose-sketches and stories and
an extensive selection from his
“Fragment of Autobiography,”
almost all the inclusions now
published for the first time in
book-form, the few exceptions
being from small Lawson books
now out of print and never
perhaps very widely known.
So, unless Henry’s stocks
slump incredibly in the mean-
time, it is at least one 1957
publication that will be dredg-
ing the pockets of Australiana
collectors a generation or so
hence.
TV/TE AN WHILE it fits nicely
into any dredged pocket,
meets very well the measure of
fair - average - quality Lawson,
with one or two tiptop prose
items in particular; and it has
other points of interest also.
A special one of these is the
inclusion of the old “Lone
Hand” version of the auto-
biography with some
additions from the original MS.
Rightly, in that last, Henry’s
spelling, being in itself of only
curiosity interest, has been
corrected. What is of positive
interest in respect to it —
Henry’s, self - consciousness
about it, and about his educa-
tional shortcomings otherwise
—comes through at least
clearly enough. And apart
from any normal striving for
self-improvement, his acute
self-consciousness over those
shortcomings seems to me
easily explainable.
Doing the bulk of his Work,
and the best of it, from the late-
’eighties through the ’nineties
into the early years of the new
century, his period was, in his
restricted compass, the
struggling and poverty-riddled
setting he so sharply observed
and so accurately depicted—
as he was sufficiently equipped,
educationally as well as in
genius, to do.
But the same period had, of
course, much more to it than
that. Apart from aspects which
Henry would, anyway, have
regarded with contempt, and
others that may have been
beyond his awareness (there
were many things—flowers,
animals and much else —even
in the bush he was bred in that
made no impact on his obser-
vation at all), there was one
particular aspect of the period
that could not, in his circum-
stances, miss impressing him
very sharply indeed.
In that aspect it was a keenly
cultured period, and men who
belonged to that stratum of it
were the very ones with whom
Henry, poorly educated by their
standards, came not only into
contact but into competition.
He could not' help but con-
trast his educational limits
against their apparent learn-
ing ; having his share, at least,
of both the sensitiveness and
the vanity of genius, he could
not help being acutely self-
conscious about it; and being,
above all, the most human of
mortals, he could not help cast-
ing about him for a scapegoat.
And that is where the related
significance of Henry’s masterly
spelling comes in.
AS the most obvious symptom
of the educational short-
comings—shortcomings not of
any teaching, but of his own
learning—which made him un-
comfortable in the surround-
ings into which his natural
genius had thrust him, he seized
on it and went after his scape-
goats, finding them without
trouble, as any other escapist
one of us can, in his teachers,
one of them in particular.
In the version of the “Frag-
ment of Autobiography” given
in The Men Who Made Aus-
tralia that particular scapegoat
is pinned down thus:
Father and a few others peti-
tioned for a provisional school at
Pipeclay. It was Eurunderee now;
the black name had been restored.
Father built the school; it was of
bark. It was furnished with odds
and ends thrown out of the Public
School in Mudjfee, when the Public
School got new desks, stools, and
other things. Father made black-
boards and easels, and mended the
rickety furniture. The books,
slates and things were all second-
hand and old. A selector, an
Irishman named John Tierney, was
appointed schoolmaster. He has
served since in some capacity in
the Army in Africa as paymaster
or something. He was six feet and
more, and very gaunt. His strong
points were penmanship, arith-
metic, geography and the brogue;
his weak ones were spelling, Eng-
lish grammar, and singing. He
spent some months ‘‘training” in
the Public School in Mud gee, and
had a skillion built on to the
school, where he camped.
That version differs a 1 little
from the original MS. version
in the Mitchell Library, where-
in, for one thing, Henry wrote
of his teacher at the Old Bark
School that he “has served,”
not “has since served.” In any
case, the teacher referred to is
pure Henry scapegoat and
nothing else. It is, however,
here in the book, and it is no
whit less a bogy scapegoat in
the MS. version in the Mitchell,
and maybe by now most of
those who have read either
version have accepted it as
gospel, so a little correcting of
it should at least be timely.
Tierney, it should be said, is
not the only one of Henry’s old
teachers in the Henry scape-
goatery: he, as the Old Bark
School teacher, cops it a little
harder than the others, that is
all. In point of fact Tierney
was notably different from
Henry’s unfortunately persua-
sive picture of him, and that
would seem more likely to be
true of the rest than otherwise.
THE John Tierney who was
Henry’s teacher at the Old
Bark School (and father of the
John Tierney who is author
“Brian James”) had actually
not much more schooling-time
than Henry himself. He en-
listed in the 2nd Dublin Fusi-
liers at about 15 years of age
(they grew up young), but he
had been a pupil-teacher even
before then, and also had
learned, among other things,
some of the rudiments of sur-
veying. He was (differing from
Henry in this essential point)
naturally scholarly and, as the
Irish commonly are, inherently
cultured.
In due course he was to
become an able teacher, highly
regarded by fellow-education-
alists in the New South Wales
of his teaching days ; among
others, J. P. Rooney, inspector
of schools, and W. G. Harvey,
who was one of Tierney’s
pupils, and who was also later
an inspector of schools, testi-
fied to his ability. In fact,
Tierney and Rooney became
close friends: he assisted that
inspector with his correspon-
dence and reports —and his
spelling was faultless.
Born at Cloughjordan,
County Tipperary, in 1840 (or
1841), Tierney had most of his
military training at Aldershot
about the time of Crimea, and
spent eight years in all in the
Army, serving in the Zulu
country in Africa, then in
Mauritius, thence to the
Seychelles, and finally to Bom-
bay, where men of his unit died
like flies from what would,
seem to have been malaria, with
probably pneumonia.
From these causes Tierney,
a pay-sergeant at the time, lost
a lung, was discharged from
the Army, subsequently came
4o Victoria, and here, at his
brother Dan’s urging, gave up
the chance to become a sur-
veyor, and went to the N.S.W.
diggings of the Lawson stories.
His and Dan’s party did well,
clearing £BOO a man (big money
at the time), probably at New
Pipeclay (the Eurunderee of
later days).
With his £BOO Tierney opened
a store, where it was easy
enough for Irish generosity to
lose the lot*, exchanging goods
on credit for hard-luck stories.
He and Dan then took up
selections, and when Dan left
for the Kimberleys rush in the
’eighties he took over Dan’s
selection, too, making a won-
derful place (in that setting)
of his holding, with a fine
home, ornamental rows of
trees, an orchard, a vineyardi
and even a cellar and a small!
wine-press; the cellar and
wine-press unusual for an
Irishman, and no doubt an in-
cidental outcome of his having
meanwhile married a German
girl, probably influencing not
only the good thought of the
cellar but the good farming
also.
The quoted extract from the
“Fragment of Autobiography”
mentions the change of the
placename to Eurunderee: it
was that same teacher of
Henry’s at the Old Bark School,
John Tierney, who persuaded
the authorities to adopt that
(Continued on page 57)


Calypso Federation
LATEST partner (at junior-associate
level) in the British Commonwealth
is the West Indies Federation, which
held its first election on March 25
to choose a Parliament which will be
formally opened by Princess Margaret
on April 22.
Ten island-colonies which sweep
around the Caribbean Sea in a wide arc
from the coast of Venezuela to the tip of
the Bahamas, thence through the
Windward Passage to Jamaica will
form the Federation. They comprise
Trinidad, Tobago, the Windward
Islands (Grenada, St. Vincent, St.
Lucia and Dominica), the Leeward
Islands (St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, Antigua
and Montserrat) and Jamaica. The main-
land territories at the two ends of the arc
■ -—British Guiana and British Honduras
—and the British Virgin Islands are at
present remaining outside the Federation.
Most of these names conjure-up
romantic pictures of buccaneers and
pirates, bloodshed and treasure —how the
Virgins got into such company is rather
a mystery, but it is perhaps significant
that they have now voted against a closer
association with their neighbors.
The land-area of the Federation is just
over 8000 square-miles ; its population
about three million.. In both area and
number the islands vary enormously—
from Montserrat (32 square-miles and
14,300 people) to Jamaica (4677 square-
miles and 1,600,000 people). The over-
whelming majority of the people are of
African negro descent, though Trinidad’s
population includes over 200,000’ East
Indians (out of a total of 750,000), and
Jamaica lists a quarter-million of its
people as mixed bloods. The white popu-
lation is very small.
All the islands have a very high birth-
rate, and, since the war, the deathrate
has been steadily reduced, so that
population-pressure is becoming a serious
problem, not eased by the fact that the
Caribbean countries depend on only a
few rnain products for their prosperity.
These are sugar (by far the biggest
industry), cotton, bananas and citrus
fruits; oil (Trinidad) and bauxite
(Jamaica).
Representative Government
Government and written
” constitutions seem a little out of
character with the general concept of the
Caribbean, but it is a fact that some of
the islands were granted constitutions
three centuries ago—Barbados in 1637
and St. Kitts in 1650—with a nominated
Council to advise the Governor and an
elected Assembly consisting of represen-
tatives of the freemen of the colony. As
examples of “representative Govern-
ment,” however, the colonies did not
exactly shine. At one election in St.
Kitts about a century ago, out of 21,000
people on the island only 166 possessed
the franchise and of these only 81 voted.
Problems arising from the freeing of the
slaves proved too complex for the
Assemblies to cope with, and one by one
they voted themselves out of existence,
the islands reverting to Crown Colony
status. Barbados alone retained the old
system.
Elections returned to Jamaica in 1884,
and since then there has been a gradual
progress towards responsible Govern-
ment, which has been greatly accelerated
in the past two decades. Barbados and
Jamaica now have two-chamber legis-
latures. Their Lower Houses are wholly
elected; their Legislative Councils are
nominated. The other colonies have a
Legislative Council only, with a majority
of elected members, but with important
powers reserved to the Governor.
Two Abstainers
TTNIVERSAL adult - suffrage now
extends throughout the whole
Caribbean area. Its introduction has
been not without incident, as when the
Constitution of British Guiana was
suspended in 1953 “to prevent Communist
subversion of the colony’s Government.”
Dr. Jagan’s People’s Progressive Party
had won 18' out of 24 seats in the
Assembly, and in the first session of the
new Parliament had refused to move an
address of loyalty to the Queen, intimated
’its intention of removing the ban on the
entry into the colony of well-known
West Indian Communists, planned to
establish a “people’s police,” and in
numerous ways showed sympathy with
organised Communist movements
throughout the world.
Last year a new Constitution was
granted and elections for a single-
chamber legislature part-nominated,
part-elective gave Dr. Jagan a
majority of the elective seats, though, of
course, with vastly curtailed powers.
British Honduras, the other chief
abstainer, has also been having Con-
stitutional difficulties. In November last,
while a delegation was in London for the
purpose of discussing finance and future
constitutional advance, it was found- that
Mr. Price, leader of the majority party
in the colony’s legislature, had been
having talks with the Guatemala Minister
in London on a plan involving secession
from the British Commonwealth and
some kind of association with Guatemala,
which has long claimed the territory. The
Colonial Office at once broke-off negotia-
tions and the delegation went home.
Price was subsequently relieved of his
Ministerial post.
Choosing a Capital
P VEN in those colonies forming the
Federation enthusiasm for it has not
been uniformly warm. Some of the
smaller partners have feared being over-
whelmed by the influence of Jamaica
and Trinidad, the two biggest members.
This was reflected in the long-drawn-out
arguments over the choice of a Federal
eapital. Trinidad was the first choice,
then Grenada. Later the matter was
reopened, and the Mudie commission
visited every colony and narrowed the
field down to three —Barbados, Jamaica
and Trinidad. They placed Trinidad last
because of “widespread reports of
corruption in public life.” They found
the other two colonies “politically
healthy,” commented that Jamaica had
the better press, more freedom front
color-prejudice and better communica-
tions with the outside world, but
decided that its size was against it, as
other islands might fear domination.
Their verdict therefore went to Barbados.
The capital didn’t,\ though. The Stand-
ing Federation Committee of West
Indian Governments turned-down the
report and reverted to their original
choice, Trinidad. They chose, however,
not Trinidad-’s capital, Port of Spain, but
Chaguaramas, which happens to be- the
site of a U.S. naval base, traded by
Britain in 1941 under the destroyers-for-
bases agreement. A joint commission
of British, American and West Indian
representatives is now trying to work-out
a solution to this.
Political opinion in Jamaica, the
largest colony, has been divided on the
present form of federation. Chief
Minister Norman Manley’s Government
was responsible for its final acceptance.
His Government won the 1955 election as
the People’s National Party, but it has
been merged on a Federation-wide basis
into the Federal Labor Party, with
Manley as leader, although he was not
himself a candidate at the election last
month. His chief opponent is Alexander
Bustamente, who was a picturesque figure
in the film of the Royal tour four years
ago when, as Chief Minister, he
welcomed the Queen to Jamaica.
Bustamente leads the Democratic Labor
Party (no affiliation with the Kane-Keon
D.L.P.) which is now also a Federal
organisation. At the Federal election
last month the Manley party secured a
narrow majority, but the D.L.P. scored
heavily on the home ground, Jamaica,
making that island’s future policy towards
the Federation a little obscure. Behind
the scenes these tyvo Jamaicans will be
the real leaders of the opposing forces in
the Federal Parliament.
The new Federation has come abouf
as a result of similar aspirations to those
inspiring the moves for self-government
in Ghana, Malaya and elsewhere. One
great difficulty in the path of its success
is that it is being grafted on to political
systems in the various colonies which are
themselves a novelty to their electors. It
may be that the Federation will give the
people of the Caribbean a unity so far
achieved by them only in Test-cricket
and calypso. Whether it will do so
depends on their ability to discover
politicians of the calibre of Constantine*
Worrell arid Belafonte.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM.
Doncaster Day
“Grenoble could be a long-
range tip for the A.J.C. Don-
caster Handicap.” This was
printed here on Feb. 5. On
Saturday Grenoble (6 to 4) won
the Randwick mile in brilliant
fashion and in race-record
time, lmin. 35|sec., from
Teranyan (7 to 1) and Theodric
(20 to 1). Previous record-
time for the mile, I.3s|, was
made in 1941 by Mildura in his
second Doncaster win; later
(1935) it was equalled by
Tarien, who was subsequently
disqualified when a swab was
found positive.
< Grenoble is raced in partner-
ship by A. C. McCarthy, E. R.
Marshall and trainer Frank
Lewis. Facts, figures and form
pointed strongly to the winner,
especially after his Warwick
Farm week earlier
with 8.12, or 71b. above his
Doncaster weight. Two days
before the race he galloped
brilliantly at Rosebery, where
Teranyan, also trained there,
recorded similar time for half-
a-mile (52sec.). This page
chose Grenoble for the Don-
caster, with Teranyan in a
minor placing.
Grenoble'wasn’t well placed
in the early stages and went
right round the field on the
home-turn generally fatal
tactics. In the last A.J.C.
Epsom Handicap, Grenoble
was. narrowly beaten by Timor,
so his Doncaster success com-
pensated the stable for that
nose defeat. Following his
wins he is bound to be
bumped-up in -the weights in
any handicap event from now
on. The stable may have a
shot at the big Brisbane events
in the coming winter.
Highlights of the third day
of the A.J.C. autumn meeting
(today, Wednesday), will be
the £2500 Champagne Stakes
(six furlongs) and the £2500
weight-for-age All Aged Stakes
(one mile). Last year Todman,
ridden by N. Sellwood, won
the Champagne Stakes from
Tulloch and Diamond Vista in
1.10, record time for the race.
Sellwood also scored on
Knave in 1955 and on Cortauld
(later Prince Cortauld) in 1953.
J- Thompson also had three
wins in the Champagne, as did
M. McCarten and E. Bartle.
Darby Munro won the race
four times, the first time on
Chemosh in 1930. Munro is
having a winning run as
trainer, and on the first day of
the A.J.C. autumn meeting,
landed the final event, the
Second Vaucluse Handicap,
with Atellor.
Kingster won the All Aged
Stakes last autumn from Lind-
bergh and Aboukir. He was
ridden by A. Mulley, who in
earlier years won the race on
Red Jester and on Bern-
borough. N. Sellwood also had
three winning rides (King’s
Fair, Prince Morvi and Prince
Cortauld), but Jim Pike’s per-
formance in this w.f.a. contest
is so far supreme. He had
seven All Aged wins—on Peter
Pan (1935); Chatham (1934),
Winooka (1933), Amou n i s
(1930), Fuji San (1927), The
Hawk (1925) and Chrysolaus
(1920). Peter Pan’s 1.35, which
is still fastest time, is close to
the present Australian record
and faster than Grenoble’s
time in the Doncaster. A
number of Doncaster winners
have also landed the All Aged
Stakes four days later, and on
Saturday Grenoble was given
out as a likely runner in today’s
race. He has yet to score at
w.f.a.
• • • •
Tulloch looks certain to add
the w.f.a. £5OOO Queen Eliza-
beth Stakes (li mile) to his
winning-list on the final A.J.C.
day, this Saturday. This race,
formerly the A.J.C., Plate, was
first staged under its present
title four years ago, when the
Queen was present to see it run.
Until 1922 the race was run
at three miles, but there have
been several changes in its
distance since.
• • •' •
When Poseidon defeated
Tartan and Dyed Garments the
time for the race was 6min.
49|sec. sec. Poitrel, a great
galloper, in 1920 took 6.32|,
and Trafalgar’s 5.22 i at Rand-
wick in 1911 remains Aus-
tralia’s best. It won’t be
bettered —there are no flat
races at three miles these days.
Two “roughies” were started
in the A.J.C. St. Leger against
Tulloch and Prince Darius, but
the respective owners were
chasing the minor (third) stake-
money, £3OO. Both horses, Un-
yielding and Pin High, would
have a job to win a race worth
£3OO at a provincial meeting.
However, the pair created a
diversion, even though they
raced more than a furlong
behind winner Tulloch and
runner-up Prince Darius most
of the way. It was an exciting
struggle between the “also-
rans,” with Pin High gaining
the £3OO.
• • • •
In the race proper Tulloch
outclassed Prince Darius,
having 20 lengths to spare,
winning in a canter. Mulley
on Prince Darius looked round
in the straight to see where
the other two strugglers were,
then eased his mount because
Tulloch was cantering in with
the big end of the prizemoney,
£2229. Tulloch has won 19
races from 27 starts, for up-
wards of £60,000 in stakes.
Skyline, odds-on favorite for
the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes,
evidently cannot stay. He
should have won the race in-
stead of finishing third in a field
of four. Skyline had won im-
pressively at two earlier out-
ings. However, Man of Iron
kept him busy from the start
and there was only one in it at
the finish.
• • •
In winning her third race in
succession Wiggle proved
herself a top two-year-old filly.
She cleared-out with the AJ.C.
opening event, the Easter
Handicap for two-year-old
fillies. Reports had been circu-
lated she was off-color. Maybe
she was slightly so, but the
others in her race were more
exhausted trying to reduce the
gap she put between herself
and her nearest Opponent in
the final stages.
• • f •
Straight Draw also had been
reported as slightly sore the
day before the Autumn Stakes,
which he won in fine style. That
report appeared to be more
than a bit off-target, and trainer
Jack Mitchell was both amused
and surprised. Maybe too
many rumors get around, and
they need to be given a wide
berth. Over the years horses
that have suddenly “gone
amiss” have often come to light
and won races of varying
importance.
• • • •
Victorian colt Nilento ran
his best race in Sydney and
won second money (£1000).
Man of Iron’s £4369 win
makes him a bargain-buy for
owner Bob Carter, even
though he paid 1700gns. for
him at the Randwick yearling-
sales last year. On latest win
Man of Iron could be the best
Derby prospect. His time for
the Sires, 1.24 1-5, was fastest
run for many years. Previous-
best was Yaralla’s 1.23 f in
1941. In 1937 Ajax ran 1.23|.
G. Moore, rider of Man of
Iron, also won the race last
year on Tulloch, and in 1948
on Riptide.
Gay Satin was taken from
the A.J.C. Tocal Handicap
because she appeared harshly
handicapped on 8.8, which did
seem a lot of weight for a
three - year - old filly, even
though she has won 10 races.
The stable has a much easier
prospect on the final A.J.C.
day as Gay Satin is engaged


Largest Australian Coy
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
in the £4OOO Adrian Knox
Stakes for three - year - old
fillies (li mile) at level weights,
8.7. Gay Satin should win.
Trainer Sid Nicholls has the
filly in grand order, and she
has won at her last three starts
up to \\ mile, two of the wins
being at Flemington and the
other at Warwick Farm.
All stables have runs of luck
and runs of reverses. Randwick
trainer Jack Green was out of
luck on the opening day of the
A.J.C. autumn meeting when
his six runners bit the dust.
They were Andabri, third at
11 to 2 ; Beaco, second at
6 to 1 ; Skyline, third at 7-to-4-
on; Squander Lad, second •
favorite for the Doncaster at
9-to-2, ran 10th; Baystone,
backed from 33’s to 7’s and
unplaced in the Autumn Stakes,
and Cornelius, 5-to-4 and third
in the Second Vaucluse
Handicap.
Sydney’s annual sales of
thoroughbred yearlings will
be continued by William Inglis
and Son, Ltd., at their New-
market stables, Randwick,
tomorrow (Thursday), and on
Friday, and will be concluded
on Monday next. Early offer-
ings tomorrow include rela-
tives to Monarch, Ultrablue,
Don Pedro, Song Star, Rip-
tide, Talisman, Gold Trek,
Bankbrook and Victory Lad.
The Leo O’Sullivan stable
started both Teranyan (second)
and New Spec (fourth) in the
A.J.C. Doncaster Handicap.
Both race in the same interest,
but it surprised many to find
New Spec, an unknown quan-
tity at a mile, racing against
horses proved at the distance.
If New Spec was there to
make the pace for Teranyan,
he also did so for the winner,
because he certainly set a fast
pace and the race was run in
record time. But at a vital
stage of the race he was un-
doubtedly in Teranyan’s way,
and the latter had to be
switched from an inner berth
to finish on the outside of the
winner. Still, one thing seems
certain —there will be a lot of
money for New Spec in any
immediate sprint for which he
is set.
* * *
“P. O. M. C.”: For the
Warwick Farm meeting on
March 29 Sydney “Sports-
man” actually tipped the pro-
gramme seven straightout
winners of seven races; the
“Mirror” picked five, while
the “Sun” and “Newsletter”
each got four. Granny
“Herald,” though compara-
tively disgraced with three
straightout winners, kept in
line with other old ladies
who haunt the tote by
hitting the jackpot with a
separate set of selections. Such
inspired prophecy by Sydney
newspaper-scribes' occurs once
every second blue-moon, but
this particular bout of sooth-
saying obliged bookies collec-
tively to lend punters en
masse a sum around £1 million
—in most cases for at least a
week.
* * *
Melbourne Racing
For the third year in suc-
cession the £2500 Victoria
Handicap, main event on the
first day . of the M.R.C.’s
Easter meeting, was won by a
three-year-old. In ’56 the race
went to Brocken, last year to
Parvo, and at Flemington last
Saturday the big Targui
gelding Lord came from the
rear bunch at the half-mile to
overwhelm a fair-class field of
sprinters.
W. R. Kemball races Lord,
whom he bred from his mare
Broadway. The gelding cut
out the seven furlongs in 1.24 L
The only Victoria Handicap
winner to better that time was
Savoy, who ran 1.24* in 1951.
Savoy also carried the red,
white and blue Kemball colors.
Lord started at the good odds
of 5 to 1. After his previous
run, when he finished third
behind Copper Year and
Stormy Sky at the Valley, this
page suggested Lord would be
something to bet on the next
time he rkced.
Good judges in Melbourne
believe that the apprentice-lad
R. Mallyon will turn-out a top-
ranking jockey. The lad rode
a double at Flemington last
Saturday, making his season’s,
tally of city wins nine. In
winning the first race of the
day, the nine-furlongs Easter
Handicap on Tavua, he out-
rode no less a master of tactics
than Ron Hutchinson.
• • • •
Later in the day, Mallyon
again showed that he has a
wise head on his young
shoulders when he got Dual
Vista horhe in the first Westall
Trial. Dual Vista, a four-year-
old mare by Palm Vista from
Dual Crown, has often dis-
appointed her trainer, Joe Mul-
cahy, who could not reconcile
the mare’s good track-work
with her indifferent race-form.
He decided that Dual Vista
might be field - shy and
instructed Mallyon to ride her
away from all congestion. .The
boy did just that. He urged
his mount to the lead a long
way from home, and Dual
Vista gave nothing else a
chance.
A lad unknown to Melbourne
racegoers rode a double at
Flemington last Saturday. The
boy was Riverina apprentice
Roy Higgins, who had not
previously won a city race.
Tirage gave Higgins the first
leg of his double ; and the lad
rode a heady race on the filly.
Few Melbourne gallopers can
skip over a short course faster
than Tirage, but she is a
notorious “stopper.” On Satur-
day, in the five-furlongs Kings-
wood Handicap, Higgins
restrained the filly’s early dash,
and allowed her to work her
way to the lead gradually.
On a lightning-fast track,
Tirage ran the five furlongs
in 58|, which equalled the
track-record set by All Love
18 years ago. Higgins’s other
winner was Gay Saxon, in the
second division of the Westall
Trial.
Ron Hutchinson won’t count-
last Saturday’s meeting at
Flemington one of his lucky
days. From six mounts, he
rode four seconds, a third, and
was once unplaced.
* * *
“Sawtell”: “Bicky” (B.
5/3/’5B) had his Vistas a bit
mixed. Don Vista is still in
Victoria, while the horse racing
in America is former top
sprinter Gay Vista. Inci-
dentally, the proposed trip to
America for Noble Law seems
rather futile. Much as I admire
“Nobby,” surely it’s asking too
much of an old horse, back
from retirement, to trek across
the world and be ready for a
race in May!
“Reader”: P. O. MacCabe
erred in listing Wish Wynne as
a Doncaster winner (B.
25 /12 /’57). The horse on which
Jack Toohey completed his hat-
trick of Doncaster wins was
The Epicure, trained by W,
(“Rajah”) Booth at Rosehill.
This trainer won the big double
that year (1923), as David was
successful in the Sydney Cup.
Jack Toohey went very close
to making it four Doncasters in
a row, being only narrowly
beaten on Trimacre. Toohey’s
Doncaster winners and the
years were: Speciality, 1921;
Julia Grey, 1922 ; The Epicure.
1923.
* * *
“Bicky”: To win the same
race six times is a feat rarely
achieved by a trainer. Fleming-
ton mentor Theo Lewis did it
when his horse Indian Court
landed the Colac (Vic.) Cup
recently. He had previously
won the event with Neutron,
Bold John, Trust Me, Iphicles
and Sunworship.
* * *
Trotting
Incidents at Harold Park last)
Thursday (the second night of
the Easter carnival) upset the
crowd of 17,000-odd. The
winners of the first two races
registered reversals of form,
and in the third race, the result
of a very close finish was
semaphored before the judge
saw the photo. Two horses
fell soon after the start of the
fourth and in the Harold Park
Free-for-All careless driving
marred the chances of several
horses, and three horses fell
at the turn out of the straight
in the “bell” lap. The stewards
also reversed the semaphored
placings in the Trotter’s Cup.
In the first race Marinetto
won by three-quarters of a
length from 9-to-4 favorite
Polly Wiften, after having
finished ninth, seventh and
eighth in her three previous
races.
In the Third Carnival
Handicap heat Main Powetf
got away well and was never
headed to win by three-and-a-
half lengths from Ronald, with
Blanche’s Best a further half-
length away third. Main
Power, in a similar race the
previous week, had finished
last. Hence a very, hostile
demonstration.
In the third race (the fourth
and concluding heat of the
Carnival Handicap) Star Hill
and Bangaroo Lass shot over
the line in what appeared to
be a dead-heat. Immediately
Star. Hill’s Np. 3 was sema-
phored. The number was


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO JOHN POWELL late of Griffith.—
TAKE NOTICE that SOPHIA MAY
POWELL has filed a Petition -for
Divorce No. 4101 of 1956 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 17th day of June 1958 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge
from GREGG & MILNE* Solicitors, of
4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. J.
DOUG.HAN, Registrar.
THE NORTHERN TERRITORY OF
AUSTRALIA
IN THE SUPREME COURT.
No. 136 of 1957.
BETWEEN : JOHN REGINALD
STEWART, Plaintiff, and BETTY
LILLIAN STEWART, Defendant.
To: Fred Renals, Sydney, New South
Wales.
NOTICE is hereby given to Fred Renals
whose last • known address was at
Sydney, New South Wales, that John
Reginald Stewart of Darwin in the
Northern Territory of Australia, Petty
Officer, Royal Australian Navy, has
issued a writ in the Supreme Court of
the Northern Territory in an action in
which John Reginald Stewart claims
an order for divorce from his wife on
the ground of her adultery with Fred
Renals, but is not claiming costs or
damages against him. If Fred Renals
desires to be heard in opposition to
the claim for the order, he must file an
appearance in the office of the Master of
the Supreme l Court of the Northern
Territory within 21 days of the last
insertion of this advertisement other-
wise he may be found guilty of adultery
in his absence, but no costs or damages
will be awarded against him if he does
not file an appearance.
. JOHN MERITY, Roslyn Court,
Darwin. Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
hastily withdrawn, but returned
to the first position with the
Judge’s verdict of a win by
half-a-head.
• . • . •' •
In the Trotters’ Cup Austral
Sky beat Annual Report by
two lengths, with Carlotta’s
Pride three-quarters of a length
away in third place. The
stewards, protested and later
awarded second - placing to
Carlotta’s Pride. Austral Sky
was ruled to have galloped
over the line after galloping
nearly the length of the
straight.
The £lOOO Harold Park
Free-for-All was marred by
interference. A. Vassallo,
driver of Gentry (who finished
second), was suspended by the
stewards for one month for
having caused interference to
Robert Sheen and Sibelia. They
also adjourned an inquiry into
an accident which involved
Secret Spring, Determined
Boy, Victory Dale, False Step
and Young Wexford.
Favorite Sky High went to
the lead at the start, with False
Step trailing him. False Step
overhauled Sky High in the
straight and went on to win
from Gentry by three-quarters
of a length with Sky High half
a length further away third.
Watts got Sibelia through
from sixth at the bell to finish
a close fourth.
f +
Sundry Sports
Just about all the cricket-
finals being now disposed of,
football, of the various brands,
again takes over. Sydney’s
Rugby Union and Rugby
League both began with a split
round over Easter, and Sydney’s
Federation and Association
Soccer also got away on Easter
Saturday. Melbourne's V.F.L.
was still playing trial games
over the holidays, and gets
cracking this Saturday coming.
The first series of Adelaide’s
League games is not till April
26.
• • ‘ • •
Sydney Rugby League’s
match-of-the-day on Saturday
was between the clubs whicn
contested last year’s grand-final,
St. George and Manly; and
when last year’s premiers led
10-2 not long after the start,
they looked to be going on
to another 31-9 win, or better.
But the Seagulls pulled-up their
socks ; and with their forwards
beginning to control the power-
ful Red - and - white pack
(reduced to five when Kearney
was sent-off), and with full-
back-skipper Willey kicking
well for goal and scoring a
good try, too, they finally
exorcised the Saints. Manly,
21-15.
“Selja”: Two sets of brothers
were picked in the Northern
Suburbs (Sydney) Rugby Union
XV last Saturday—Peter and.
Barry Capelin, and Jim and
Bob Landers. North has twins,
Peter and Dick Notley, in its
third-grade side ; and two'other
North brothers are Bob Lock-
hart (second-grade) and Dave
(fourth). The Landers brothers
between them scored 15 of
Norths’ points in their 20-19
defeat of Easts last Saturday.
Peter Capelin scored a try and
played well; but Barry had had
to withdraw at the last minute
through injury.
“W.W.E.”: That 1903 N.Z
Rugby Union team (Service
Department, B. 26/3/’5B) was
indeed a very great team. I
saw them play on Brisbane’s
Exhibition Ground. In the
four main matches of the tour
(two against N.S.W., two
against Queensland) neither
N.S.W. nor Queensland scored
a point. We were donkey-
licked, yet only four years
before, in 1899, Queensland
defeated Mullineux’s British
R.U. team 11-3 on the Exhibi-
tion Ground. Incidentally, my
Dad played against Stoddart’s
British R.U. team in 1888. He
also played for Queensland
against New South in 1889-91.
I’ve still got his honor-cap
marked in silver braid 1888-89-
91. It’s 66-years-old, and one
of my most treasured posses-
sions.
“Keima”: Lieut. Michael
Sellar, A.D.C. to the new
Queensland Governor, Sir
Henry Abel Smith, is to play
Rugby Union with Wests'
(Brisbane) this season when
vice-regal duties permit. A
fly-half, he played with United
Services first-grade club at
Portsmouth before coming to
Australia. His father was an
English international in the late
1920’5.
The N.S.W. Rugby League
has at last shown its initiative
in refusing to allow interna-
tional five-eighth Greg Hawick
to play football in 1958. Hawick
brought this on himself by
signing a contract to play with
North Sydney, then, changing
his mind, to break this contract
(as he thought) he moved into
his old Sydney club district,
South Sydney. Because of the
residential - qualification rule
which states that a player must
live 12 months in the one dis-
trict to be eligible to play with
that district club, this would
have made Hawick ineligible
for North. Meanwhile Hawick
had signed-up with the country
town of Wagga. Then at
North’s request the League
ruling body stepped in.
* * *
Manly won Sydney’s grade-
cricket premiership, from the
1956-57 premiers, Western
Suburbs ; it was only Manly’s
second premiership in 80 years.
In Melbourne and Adelaide the
respective 1956-57 winners
(Carlton and West Torrens)
also reached the 1957-58 final,
but, unlike Sydney’s Wests,
each chalked-up its second
successive premiership.
* * *
In drizzle, but in smooth
water and a fast tide, Cambridge
won the 104th Boatrace by
lengths from Oxford ; it was
Cambridge’s fourth successive
win. Of the 104 races Cam-
bridge has now won 58, Oxford
45, and there was one dead-
heat. Neither crew was highly
rated this year; still, Cam-
bridge’s time (18min. 15sec.)
was third-fastest on record. A
Victorian, R. J. Ritchie,
formerly of Geelong Grammar,
rowed No. 6 for Cambridge.
* * •
“Zorok”: One of the most
remarkable efforts at this year’s
Sydney Royal Show was that
of 11-year-old Lindsay Ball,
of Gunnedah, in winning the
14.2 Galloway hunt against
adult riders. (It wasn’t his first
Show win in open events).
Even more remarkable is the
fact that he has to compete in
senior hunts because he is too
young to enter in junior events!
* * *
“Regel”: Here are three
other noted footballer-cricketers
(B. 19/3/’5B) Aussie Rules
footballers, that is. Australian
Test-captain Warwick Arm-
strong played football with
South Melbourne in 1905, then
decided to concentrate on
cricket. Victor Richardson
starred as captain of S.A. in
both cricket and football, and
also led Australia at cricket.
The third one I mention is
Tasmanian C. J. Eady, who
as a cricketer went to England
in the 1896 team.
* * *
“Rossby”: Two brothers
Smith, both well known in.
Melbourne, firstly as V.F.L.
footballers and latterly as
coaches, are coaching rival
V.F.L. teams this season. More
famous of the pair, particularly
as coach, is Norm Smith, who
has helped Melbourne on to
its three successive premiership
wins (1955-56-57). Brother
Len, who has been in charge
of Fitzroy thirds for several
years, is to have his first year
as coach of the firsts. Mel-
bourne and Fitzroy do not meet
till the 11th home-and-home
game, on June 21.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought
Would two bodies, of equal size
and shape, but of different weight,
hit the ground at the same time if
dropped simultaneously from the
same height ?
Two objects of identical dia-
meter and with surfaces of equal
smoothness, even though of vastly
different weight, will fall to earth
at equal speed in a vacuum, or
where the friction caused by the
air does not differ. Frictional
forces, however, must always be
taken into account, particularly
where the bodies are moving at
high speeds. The American book
The Marvels and Mysteries of
Science, from which this summary
is taken, says: “It is due to the
proportional differences in fric-
tional surface-area that a man drop-
ping down a mine-shaft is killed
by the fall, a cat making the same
drop is bruised but not seriously
hurt and a mouse after such a
fall jumps up and runs off un-
harmed.” A feather and a penny
dropped from the same height will
not reach the ground together,
because the feather encounters air-
resistance ; but, dropped in a
vacuum, the two would reach the
ground at the same instant.
* * * •
Is the codification of the Roman
laws by the Emperor Justinian con-
sidered to be of world importance ?
Yes. Justinian’s jurists (of
whom Tribonian is the most
famous) were faced with a tre-
mendous job when they set about
codifying Roman law, for the
Roman State had then been making
laws (and plenty of them) for a
thousand years. The results of
the codification were issued in two
great works, the Code (issued in
a.d. 529) and the Digest, or
Pandects (a.d. 534). The 12 books
of the Code and the 50 books of
the Digest were intended to be the
legal library of the magistrates of
the Empire. Of the codification,
P. N. Ure, in his Justinian and His
Age (1951), says: “The rule of law
was from first to last one of the
fundamental conceptions of the
Roman Empire. It is indeed rightly
claimed as the outstanding con-
tribution of Rome to the develop-
ment of civilisation, and Jus-
tinian’s codifying of the laws is
admitted on all sides to be the
main achievement which estab-
lishes his claim to a notable place
in world history.” Ure adds that
this “massive work” makes the
Mosaic law look slight.
* * * *
Slaters are our bugbear. Can
you help us ?
Afraid you’ll have to wage
vigorous and unrelenting war on
these pests. They breed in damp,’
shady places, under rotting wood,
beneath flower-pots, etc. Get rid
of all these garden hiding-places,
scrape-up leaves and weeds and
lay bare likely spots. Then put
a few pieces of wood or several
flower-pots where the pests have
been seen; up-end them every
morning and destroy the insects
with boiling water —this kills eggs
and young as well as adults. Dust
likely haunts with boracic-acid,
but keep it off leaves. Lay baits
made from slices of lightly-boiled
potatoes dusted with Paris-green
or arsenate-of-lead (keep children
and pets away). Spray insecticide
behind kitchen or pantry wood-
work, particularly cupboards under
sinks or water-heaters. Food-
scraps, dog-bones, and decaying
vegetable-matter must be kept
cleared-up thoroughly.
* * * •
7 understand there’s to be a
tagged-fish contest in a few months’
time . Couldl I have some details ?
It will be held during the Ampol
National Fishing Contest at
Yamba, at the mouth of the
Clarence River, N.S.W., next June.
About 50 tagged fish, each with
a prize on its head, will be
released in Yamba Bay, inside the
“Draw, pardfier!"
estuary, a few hours before the
competition begins at 10 a.m., on
June 15. Anglers will have 10
hours in which to catch them.
One will carry the £lO,OOO prize;
it’s a black bream, and will be
released by Dr. A. A. Racek, of
the Fisheries Department. He
will be the only person to know
what is on the marked tag until
the competition ends. Dr. Racek
will be given a dozen differently-
marked tags with corresponding
photographs; 11 tags and the
corresponding pictures will be
destroyed, and the remaining photo-
graph will be sealed and placed
in a bank until the period of the
competition expires. Anglers who
catch tagged fish won’t know if
their fish is the “golden” bream
until the seal on the photograph
is broken.
The tagged-fish contest will be
the culmination of a week of ortho-
dox angling, starting at 2 p.m. qn
Saturday, June 7, with estuary,
rock and beach contests. First-
prize in each of these sections will
be worth £l5O, or £250 if certain
conditions are fulfilled. In addi-
tion the winners will receive free
flights to Tasmania and two weeks*
accommodation at Swanse a.
Second-prize in both sections is
valued at £lOO, together with free
holidays at Yamba or Maclean.
The fisherman who catches the
most fish on any one day of the
contest is to get a prize worth
£100; heaviest fish caught of five
nominated species will each carry
prizes. Special sections for women
and children have been arranged,
and casting-competitions will also
be held. Prizes range from a tele-
vision-set to a vacuum-cleaner and
fibreglass-rods and fishing-gear.
The contest is being sponsored
by Ampol Petroleum, Ltd., in co-
operation with Slazengers and the
Grafton Brewing Company, and
is being conducted by the Grafton
Amateur Anglers’ Club. Entry-
forms are available from Ampol
service-stations and from leading
sports-stores. Entries, which will
close on May 9, should be
addressed to “Ampol National
Fishing Contest,” Box 63, P. 0.,
Rozelle, N.S.W. All entry-fees
will be devoted to Legacy.
* * * *
Brief explanation of the White
Australia policy ?
“White Australia” dates from
the time of the gold-rushes in the
1850’s, when feelings were first
aroused against indiscriminate
immigration of colored peoples,
particularly Chinese. One of the
first laws passed by the first Com-
monwealth Parliament in 1901 was
the Immigration Restriction Act,
which in practice proclaimed
Australia as a white man’s preserve.
Scott’s A Short History of Aus-
tralia says, “The reason for it [the
Act] was frequently represented
to be merely that the trade-unions
objected to the incursion of colored
labor, which would lower wages
and the standard of living among
the working-classes. Undeniably
that motive had much weight, but
the policy was supported on other
grounds connected with the general
well-being. Those who had studied
the consequences of the importa-
tion of negroes to America might
well stand appalled at the prospect
of saddling the Australia of the
future with such a problem, and
experience of the Chinese quarters
of the large cities provided ample
warnings against increasing such
an element of the population.”
The reasons for the policy are
thus economic, political and ideal-
istic. The Bulletin’s slogan is,
of course, “Australia for the White
Man,” which does not infer any
feeling of racial superiority, only
that unrestricted immigration
might easily mean that Australians
might eventually be outvoted at
the polls. There is, in fact, no
racial bias as such in Australia.
Colored visitors are always given
a very friendly reception; but to
have unrestricted immigration of
colored peoples is a different horse.
* * * *
Any truth in the belief that a
person’s health is affected by sleep-
ing in a room at the window of
which a papaw-tree is growing ?
No definite information to
hand; no one seems willing to
undertake the experiment. There
are cases where papaw-trees grow-
ing' against walls of houses don’t
affect the inmates. Conversely,
it’s possible that the pollen from
the male trees causes nasal irrita-
tion to people sleeping near them,
in the same way as do other pollens,
such as wattle. Anyway, the
trees are better out in the open
in your State. Write to the
Queensland Department of Agri-
culture for further points; in the
meantime it might be best to
shut the window and sleep else-
where.
Brief Answers
K.W.G.: (1) Britain is a mem-
ber of the Organisation for Euro-
pean Economic Co-operation, but
not of the European Coal and
Steel Community. It is also asso-
ciated with some, but not all, of
the other European Common
Market schemes. (2) Britain has
remained outside the Common
Market, and, while giving it general
approval, has been trying to
interest Europe in its own plan
of a “Free Trade Area.” A few
months ago British Prime Minister
Macmillan said his Government
did not see any contradiction
between its determination that
trade between the Commonwealth
should grow and its proposal for
a free flow of trade within Europe.
(3) Too early to say yet. (4)
See article “Common Market or
Free-trade Area,” published in B.
12/2/’58... .F 1.8.: A “susurrus”
is a rustle or whisper—e.g., the
susurrus of a silk dress E.N.:
New Zealand's population at
December 31 last, according to the
N.Z. Department of Statistics, was
2,262,875, of whom 145,671 were
Maoris... .M.A.8.: Strictly speak-
ing, the two Qantas Super-Constel-
lations departed from Essendon,
Melbourne, on the round-the-world
flight in January this year. How-
ever, both aircraft stayed for an
hour in Sydney to take aboard
additional passengers and some
philatelic airmail, and Mascot was
therefore their actual point of
departure from Australia ..• •
M.L.W.: Sorry, can’t tell you. Sug-
gest you write to a dealer in second-
hand books, and ask his advice
F.F. : Inquire at the office of the
Registrar of Probates in the


Supreme Court House, Sydney....
H.G.L.: Sorry, unable to trace the
price of that particular make of
car at that time in that place.
Anyway,' what interests more is
the price of the latest models here
and now 1.5.: (1) No infor-
mation available. (2) Figures not
readily available. Japanese authori-
ties possibly could provide them,
but they would not prove very
much —a lot of those who died
may well have died from natural
causes in this time, in any case.
(3) Well, the U.S.A. and Russia
would probably each claim that
it was leading. Still, Britain seems
rightfully to hold the title —-by
virtue of the recent “harnessing”
of H-power for peaceful purposes
at Harwell research-station by Dr.
Donald Fry and the Australian,
Dr. Peter Thonemann. (4) Zeta,
the name of the machine used in
the “harnessing,” stands for “zero
energy thermonuclear assembly.”
(5) the “fusion” process, not the
fission... .W.A.H.: You can’t get
bird-lime on the market; it’s
prohibited in most States, use
carrying a fine under fauna- and
flora-protection regulations. For a
definite ruling, get in touch with
the Department of Agriculture in
your State capital: if you are
allowed to use it, a formula which
you can make up can be supplied.
. ...D.W.8.: That information
can be supplied only by the makers
of the refrigerator or their
accredited agents. The freezing-
process varies in different makes,
and no general remarks could
apply to a particular model. As a
precaution, the machine should be
stood in a cool place away from
a stove and out of direct sunshine
with proper ventilation to remove
fumes A.J.D.: (1) Try Red
Cross Handicrafts, 1 York Street,
Sydney. (2) Work of this kind isn’t
easy at home: it takes training and
skill. Suggest you call on your
spectacle-maker and ask for
advice. It’s doubtful if the treat-
ment improves lenses. These
should be kept very clean by
frequent application of a linen
cloth ; inner-lenses should, if
possible, be unscrewed and
brushed-out with a fine camel-hair
brush. Good lenses are sold in a
condition suitable for their work
and need only careful cleaning
and .freedom from scratches or lil-
use A.A.E.: The nearest to
that one is the aboriginal word
Toora (leflection)... .DJ.P.: Your-
specimen is not a coin ; it’s a small
Hanoverian medalet commemora-
ture. ' Have it tested by a jeweller
to see if it is gold—these pieces
are usually made of brass, in which
case it’s valueless. If made of
gold it’s worth old-gold value
only E.J.P.: The question
can’t be fully answered unless the
conditions are described more
definitely. Suggest you contact the
Irrigation and Water. Supply Com-
mission, Brisbane.. . .T. 1.: If you
want to gd rabbit-trapping, there
are said to be large numbers ot
rabbits in the Wilcannia-lvanhoe
area and in the surrounding
district. It’s usual, nowadays, for
trappers to trap for the freezers
or portable chillers. Managers of
these arrange for the areas to be
trapped, and send around lorries
to buy the rabbits caught. Drop
a line to Mr. S. E. Barby, 11
Napier Street, Condobolin, who is
the manager for Smorgans, a Mel-
bourne firm M.J.K.: (1) At the
end of the first second, the
velocity of a falling body will
be 32ft. per second; at the end
of the second, 64ft. per second ;
at the end of the third, 96ft. A
falling body accelerates at the
rate of 32ft. per second per second.
Your hypothetical body will move
at that velocity 8.J.: (1) See,
Out of the'Gun, by Denis Warner
(1956), which is “an attempt to
give a general idea of what the
West faces in Asia, the aspirations
and plans of the Communists,
their strengths and their weak-
nesses.” (2) See General Lucius
D. Clay’s Germany and the Fight
for Freedom (1950). General
Clay was U.S. Military Governor
for Germany (1945-49)... .J.S.E.:
You will probably need to heat
the brass to remove the wax. Then
polish again with Brasso. To make
the lines darker and clearer, you
could paint them with a black
enamel. Rub off any excess of
enamel, and repolish.. . .C.W.:
According to Everyman’s Diction-
ary of Non-classical Mythology
(1952), Avalon is the “Place of
Apples” in Celtic myth to which
Arthur was taken after being
wounded to death... .D. 5.8.: The
Korean War began on June 25,
1950, when the North Korean
Army, without warning, invaded
South Korea. An armistice agree-
ment ending the fighting was
signed at Panmunjom by the
United Nations and Communist
commands on July 27, 1953. ■
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
' to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
Jimmo: If ypu want your old
soldiers to be printed, you’ll have
to make the dialogue printable
A.S.: Not good enough 8.L.5.:
Try a story with an outback
Australian setting J.McK.:,Sent
your Russian scientists up in a
sputnik A.G.: Even if Holly-
wood could make it “a box-office
smash-hit” it’s still not up to our
standards ~. .E.CJ.: “Dreams Do
Come True” is sleepwalking back.
J.J.H.: No sale for “Used
Cars”... .R.McD.: Our advice?
Stick to watching football... .S.K.:
Tut! J. 8.: Tut, tut! J.A.:
Tut, tut, tut! S.G.H.: ‘'Rhymes
of the Times” are neither rhymely
nor timely G.L.T.: And an-
other murdering prospector bites
the dust.. ~L.P.: “I’m taking a
course in short-story writing.”
Well, push on regardless....
J.C.8.: W.p.b. is the only place
for a character who steals the
prizewinning fish and brags that
he caught it... .T.M.W.: No
future in “Looking! Backwards”.
. ...L.C.8.: The only thing novel
about that short story is its length.
K.D.: “My heart’s on the
ocean, my heart is not here.” See
a doctor... .T. 5.8.: Too many
others have remembered your
“ Memories ” L.M.C.: You
don’t do it as well as Fabre does.
J.S.: That “none-too-clean
handkerchief” was lost in the
laundry,, we foolishly hoped, thirty
years ago... . M.G.P.: Your people
are mechanical and they aren’t
even wound-up... .8.0’M.: Well,
we’d keep it for Christmas only
we want to look forward to it.
A.P.: “Sorrowful is the
Swallow” —likewise “Sloppy is the
Story”... .J.R.D.: YOur heroine
may have been hurt because a
columnist put her name in the
paper, but that’s something you
won’t have to worry about
C.T.: It’s like an abstract paint-
ing, whatever that’s like F.T.:
Your outback people are all being
heroic when they should be doing
their work... .B.McD.: Don’t like
it —never did.... .N.F.: Go easy;
go easy; if he married her for
her money, at least he had that.
S.T.D.: Not bad, try again—
but don’t wish that one on us again
in any guise... .R.E.: No, we
wouldn’t say you go too far, but
you certainly go too long
8.L.F.: Ditto; no matter how nice
a girl she may have been, you’ll
have to seduce her in less than
3000 words.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 481
Across
I—An1 —An insular oriental if turning the cheek I number. (8)
s—The5 —The most mature blight of the king-emperor. (6)
10 — Don’t allow thanks to stay out in wine and dine
hospitably. (9)
11 — Oxygen region for nothing. (5)
12 — Land rights lines which are wrong. (5)
13— Constable to overtake a European. (9)
15—Blubber neckwear is' back. Amen. (6)
17 —Goad Kelly when rejected and despised. (7) \
20 — One who extorts money or duties
from a retired stage person- '
ality. (7)
21 — A sleeveless pullover for an off-
side fieldsman to the legside.
(4-2)
24 : —They agree a donkey comes
in. (9)
25 — Recognised Cayenne to possess
the rest of it. (5)
26 — N.S.W. river wherein I moan. (5)
28 — Real dames include Hugo’s gipsy
girl. (9)
29 — Two people, a boy and a girl,
flattened. (6)
30 — Ordained donkey in the middle
of a glacier cleft. ,(8)
Down
1 — Reel into the clenched hand
register of people who get in
for nothing. (4, 4)
2 Landlord fights with fists what
mail-vans clear. (6-5)
3 Strap up work for actors. (5)
4 A shade of expression is dropped
by the nuisance. (6)
6 Is above the other Jolson hav-
ing the same mean summer
temperature. (9)
7 (3)
8 — Crimson neckwear set in rows,
one above another. (6)
9 Part of the feet pests
defined? (7)
14 —Seer loves pop (anagram). (4-7)
16 —A reason for acting in the
American money I have. (9)
18 — Freed from the effects of
alcohol. Therefore, blush or
flush! (7)
19 — One woman to make a tryst
with, the woman being quite
the wrong kind for trysting to
submerge. (8)
22 — Red Indian who runs an estab-
lishment under the sign of the
three balls. (6)
23 — Some centralised a substance
consisting of the same elements
in the same proportions as
another substance. (6)
25 —Assassinated Russian Bolshevik
leader gives heart to the Coraki
Rovers. (5)
27 —Gipp'sland town makes me
swallow nothing. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 480


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SUMMIT TALKS
\7ARIOUS press views on
* “the flinty boulders, pre-
cipitous places and traps for
the unwary” which lie on the
uphill path towards summit
talks between East and West:
London “Daily Express”:
“Another message from Mr.
Bulganin. Another 3000 words
for Mr. Macmillan and his
Cabinet to read. Another
chapter in an already bulging
volume of correspondence.
“It is easy to discern the aims
of the Soviet leader in writing
these long letters. He is
addressing himself not to the
Heads of Government but to
the peoples of the West.
“There is too much writing
going on. Mr. Bulganin is
writing about bombs almost as
much as J. B. Priestley is talk-
ing on the same subject.”
Subjects for Discussion
Edinburgh “Scotsman”:
“While expressing willingness
to discuss any constructive pro-
posal for ending the cold war,
the letter [from Bulganin]
specifies the topics which Russia
will not discuss. Among these
are the U.S. proposal to abolish
the unanimity rule for the
permanent members in the
Security Council and the posi-
tion of the States in Eastern
Europe.
“Of course, there was no
chance that the Russians would
discuss these, and even if they
did the discussion would be
futile. They also repeat their
refusal to discuss German
reunification, but profess
willingness to discuss a
German peace-treaty. This is
simply absurd. But it is per-
fectly clear that this is their
final word on the direct dis-
cussion of Germany. It is just
as futile for the West to pursue
this matter as it is for Russia
to pursue the elimination of
foreign bases.”
The same: “What is left to
discuss? Disarmament seems
to be the most likely topic, if
only the two sides are prepared
to make small beginnings on
concrete and practical issues.
The cessation of nuclear tests,
it must be repeated, is the most
obvious. Another possibility
which would in effect be an
indirect approach to the
problem of Germany and
Eastern Europe is the Rapacki
plan and Western counter-
proposals—which have yet to
be formulated. But it has to be
admitted that a summit con-
ference is not at all likely to
do the slightest good until both
sides show a greater readiness
to discuss things realistically.
Mere public pressure seems to
be the only reason why it is
seriously intended to hold a
conference at all.”
The same: “According to
Mr. Dulles, 1958 is no time for
—N.Y. “Herald Tribune”
“GOING OUT AGAIN?”
talk of disengagement. His
rejection of Russia’s last
proposal had a sound basis, but
there is no disguising his
reluctance to hold a summit
conference.
“This reluctance arises partly
from the fear that a summit
conference would bring dis-
engagement nearer. Mr. Dulles
thinks of his own people, who
might feel no obligation to
wage war in defence of a
neutralised Europe as they
would in defence of a Europe
containing the Nato ‘trip-wire,’
with American troops engaged
from the first hour should
Russia strike.”
New Propaganda Technique
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“We are now experiencing from
the Soviet leaders a new
propaganda technique that
virtually turns the old assump-
tions upside-down. They do
not seem to care one jot about
convincing the Western leaders;
indeed, by bombarding public
opinion with a ceaseless barrage
of brazen, contradictory
double-talk, they have, if any-
thing, vastly augmented the
distrust of Soviet motives that
exists in the Chancelleries of
the free world. The men who
would actually have to negotiate
at the summit with the Russian
leaders are probably more
rather than less suspicious of
the Kremlin’s basic purposes
today than they were before
the peace campaign was
launched. Clearly, therefore, in
the old terms the propaganda
campaign has signally failed.
“But equally clearly, it was
not and is not intended to
convince the Western
leaders. It is intended to
convince the Western publics.
But this is, of course, the
secret of its phenomenal
success. For, while the Western
nations, following the tradi-
tional practice, address their
Notes and aides-memoires to
the Soviet leaders, limiting their
scope and purpose to the sub
stantive issues requiring negoti-
ation, the Soviet leaders address
themselves to a wholly different
audience whose aspirations are
not determined by what- is
possible but by what , is
desirable. The very flights of
fancy, therefore, which shock
those who have to deal with
facts, delight the escapists.”
• _ • • •
The same: “Take, for
example, Russia’s offer to
ban the use of outer space for
military purposes, which was
treated as the main news-story
in the principal Sunday news-
papers. To the Western leaders
such an offer can only seem
barefaced dishonesty, can only,
therefore, reduce the chances of
successful negotiation. For not
only did the Russians reject this
self-same offer when President
Eisenhower first put it forward
some weeks ago, but now, in
putting it forward themselves
they make it conditional on the
withdrawal by the United States
of all its bases on foreign soil.
Such a palpably dishonest
proposal is, therefore, the very
opposite of a concession. But
to public opinion which reads
only the headlines, ‘Ban arms
in outer space, says Russia,’ and
‘Russia offers to ban space
arms,’ the impression is quite
different. Once again the Soviet
Union seems to be taking the
lead in seeking peace.
“It is, unfortunately, no
answer to press the Western
Governments to counter-attack
with their own propaganda.
In the first place it would not
reach the Russian public. But,
more important, it would not
serve the Western cause. For
it cannot be too strongly stated
that the propaganda successes
which the Soviet Union is now
enjoying do not advance the
cause of peace. In the real
world where diplomacy is con-
ducted its present tactics are
not reducing tensions. The
more the Russians hoodwink
Western public opinion, the
more skilfully they mislead and
confuse, the more suspicious
and hostile the Western
Governments will become. If
the West were to adopt the
same tactics in reverse this
would, therefore, only add to
the tensions in the world. One-
sided propaganda warfare with
no holds barred is dangerous
enough. But if it became two-
sided, with the West stooping to
the same deplorable deceits and


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
T.-WS GERMANPEOPLE,CANNOT WAVETHEtR
FORCES •» COMMITTED to WEAPONS OP
SEVERAL GENERATIONS AGO *
'SSMEWt mSTAD, SUPREME COMMANDS? Of NATO
—London “Daily Mirror”
DANGEROUS TOYS?
double-talk, the world would
swiftly descend to disaster.”
Revolution or Self-
preservation
‘‘M an c h ester Guardian” :
“The Soviet Union seeks self-
preservation even more than
revolution; and, it must be
remembered, the West is itself
seeking radical change in
Eastern Europe. In fact, one
purpose of Western policy has
been to make the Soviet leaders
realise that their aims of. revolu-
tion and self-preservation are
incompatible with one another.
“For Russia the compulsory
choice between them would be
removed only if —as her latest
proposals suggest the West
were to surrender its defences
while the Soviet Union keeps
intact the means of revolu-
tion. And the means of revolu-
tion everywhere in Central
Europe the zone envisaged
for disengagement has been
the use or thfe presence of the
Red Army. Let us get it out of
Eastern Europe and Russia’s
foremost weapon is removed.
“At the back of Mr.
Khrushchev there are men —
millions of them, as events in
Poland, Hungary and Eastern
Germany have shown —who
‘dream of buns.’ Disengage-
ment must never be conceived
as a mere defensive operation,
a simple withdrawal. Its aim
ought to be to secure for the
P e oples of Eastern and Cen-
tal Europe an increase in
freedom of forming non-
military ties with countries
other than the Soviet Union.
“It is possible, perhaps even
probable, that the Soviet
leaders will refuse to contem-
plate such a change. But if
so, is it not the duty of
Western statesmen to show
-clearly who frustrates the
dream, not only of hungry
men but of all mankind?”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post”: “The
Soviet Union commands con-
ventional forces far superior
to those of the Western
Powers. If the Americans give
up their bases, they surrender
the power to deter Russia from
occupying the Continent- with
her troops and tanks and turn-
ing free Europe into another
Hungary. So the Russian
offer, imaginative and even
generous as it may seem to
those who fail to note its
full implications, is unaccept-
able to Western statesmen. No
one knows that better than
Marshal Bulganin and Mr.
Khrushchev. Why, then, do
they make the offer? Is it
merely to confuse popular
opinion in the West? Are the
Soviet leaders simply playing
on the fears that afflict people
everywhere when they con-
template the dangers of nuclear
warfare? Do they hope by
these means' to score another
propagandist victory?”
Western Leadership
C. L. Sulzberger in “New
York Times”: “What the
Democracies need right now
is a summit meeting—among
their own trinity and minus
Khrushchev. If they cannot
first settle mutual difficulties
there is not the slightest chance
that they will ever be able
to negotiate with Moscow.
“The trouble lies in a
Western crisis of leadership.
.Eisenhower is tired. Dulles
has sturdily sensible diplo-
matic views which he presents
publicly with maximum
ineptitude. Macmillan has
slipped into a coma of self-
deception. Lloyd rapidly
approaches zero as a factor
of influence. And to speak
of any French Government at
all is to exercise the imagina-
tion.
“What are the Allied posi-
tions? Britain agrees with the
United States that if there is
to be a summit talk it should
be limited to six participants
—the Big Three plus Russia,
Poland and Czechoslovakia.
But M. Pineau backs the Rus-
sian view that it should include
Italy and Rumania. Gromyko,
receiving such encouragement,
wants now to enlarge the
party and bring in Yugo-
slavia, India and Sweden.
“It is a sad commentary
upon the psychological self-
confidence of our chief allies
when they are willing to
equate themselves with Poland
and Czechoslovakia and when
one of them talks of tjalancing
Italy against the shabby facade
of Rumania.”
The same: “While blandly
talking of an East-West get-
together, the Russians are
making persistent efforts to
split the Western front before
a meeting. On the one hand
they continue to hint their
desire to sit down alone with
the United* States and make a
global deal.
“On the other hand they
make bilateral offers of secret
arrangements to other Nato
Powers. West German indus-
trialists have been promised
big markets in the Com-
munist bloc as well as a joint
Moscow - Bonn investment
fund for underdeveloped
countries.
“Britain's Defence Minister
is invited to Russia for con-
fidential talks. And the able
Soviet Ambassador in France
hints to nationalist elements
that if Washington won’t help
them in Algeria maybe Mos-
cow will. He has made great
headway in convincing
General de Gaulle that the
Kremlin is peace-minded,
friendly, and has a'new con-
tent as well as a new look.
And de Gaulle’s political
stock is rising.
“Adding together all these
Soviet initiatives, one is forced
to arrive at two conclusions.
First of all, Russia hopes to
weaken the West to a maxi-
mum degree before it sits
down to negotiate. Secondly,
Russia is no longer likely to
agree to meeting on a minor-
ity basis of one against three.
Sputnik has made a profound
political difference. Moscow
now believes that it, instead
of the West, is in a position
to negotiate from strength.
This used to be the sin
attributed to Washington.”
Soviet Foreign Bases
“New York Times’’ editorial
comment: “The Soviets declare
themselves willing to ban the
use of outer space for military
purposes in return for the
elimination of foreign military
bases on territories of other
states, primarily in Europe, the
Middle East and North Africa.
“The disingenuousness of this
proposal is self-evident. The
Soviets deny, of course, that
they have any foreign military
bases, though they have made
all Eastern Europe a vast


KU? mom SAFE!
SANDERS
<#>files
Correspondence, invoicsi,
statements, etc., filed in the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book oi reference at
the end of each month —it
ony other period.
Prices and fur*
tbcr information
■pen application
Prices and fur*
tbcr information
■pen application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Pistribrnling Ag*nt*~~
MELBOO&MS . . Norman Bros. Fly. LtA
ADELAIDE , , Varden Price Lid.
PERTH t , , Deckel So«k Co. (AusL)
military base under Moscow-
controlled puppet - regimes
backed by Soviet troops. The
bases they want to eliminate,
therefore, are the Western,
principally American, bases
established and maintained by
common agreement and effort
in the common interest of
Western self-defence. Such
elimination would, of course,
mean the end of the Western
alliances and a clear road to
further Soviet conquests.
“Moscow has not dared and
does not dare to submit its
control of Eastern Europe as a
military marshalling-ground
to the test of free elections by
the subjugated people. In
contrast, the Western bases are
always subject to the ( vote of
the people in whose midst they
are put. They have been an
issue in all elections in free
Europe and will be an- issue
again in the forthcoming elec
tions in two North Atlantic
alliance countries—ltaly and
Greece. No Western bases have
been imposed on any nation
which does not want them for
its own protection, and
countries like Denmark and
Norway are freely accorded
the right to reject such bases
without impairing their Nato
membership.’’
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune”:
“The Soviet argument is that
the United States fears the
Soviet intercontinental ballistic
missile and would have it con-
trolled by international agree-
ment, while maintaining bases
from which intermediate-range
missiles could be launched
against the Soviet Union.
“This argument is fallacious
in several fundamental respects.
For one thing, the existence of
American bases on foreign
territory depends on the volun-
tary co-operation of the host
nations. They have been led to
accept these bases because of
the well-grounded fear that
without such a programme for
collective resistance the Soviet
Union would further extend
its conquered empire.
“As a practical matter, too,
the Soviet argument relating the
control of outer space to the
base-situation has a glaring
weakness. The United States
does not admit that the Soviet
lead in long-range ballistic
missiles is a permanent factor
in world strategy, any more
than the Soviets would concede
that the free world has a
monopoly of shorter-range
weapons.
“Finally, the problem of
outer space is a new one. It
has few precedents; it deals
with an area that is common to
all the world and the invasion
—London “Daily Mail”
THE SICK WOMAN OF EUROPE.
of it by man’s machines is still
so experimental and tentative
that an agreed formula for
international control is feasible
without infringing any vested
interests. To link this cosmic
question to the familiar, taqgled
one of alliances and bases, to
create the impression that the
Soviet Union has, by its sput-
niks, staked out some special
claim to space, is wrong and
dangerous.’ 1
Firmness Pays
London “Time and Tide ”;
“The firm stand which
Western leaders are making,
in spite of all the abuse
they have to endure, is
producing satisfactory results.
And the longer they continue
to stand firm and refuse
to be driven into a panic
conference, the better should
become the prospects that,
when it comes, it wdl not be an
inevitable disaster. Develop-
ments during the past few
weeks have made this clear.
“Originally the Russians
demanded a conference almost
immediately, without prepara-
tion or agenda and without
purpose beyond Soviet exploita-
tion of the widespread near-
hysteria since Sputnik I was
launched. A conference which
would leave the West without
a tomorrow would have been
ideal for this purpose.
“But the West stood firm
and demanded adequate
preparation. Eventually the
Russians gave way on this
point and agreed to a token
Foreign Ministers’ conference
to precede the meeting of
Heads of Government. In spite
of the clamor of the masses
in favor of diving at once into
such crocodile-infested waters,
the West, notably Mr. Dulles,
still refused to let emotion
replace realism. A token
Foreign Minister’s conference
would be useless, he explained.
Matters of substance would
have to be discussed if it were
to sarve any purpose.
“After further outpourings
of propaganda the Russians
have now agreed that the
Foreign Ministers can discuss
some matters to be laid before
the Heads of Government—
but with notable reservations,
the main one being the question
of German reunification, upon
which devolves the wider matter
of a European settlement of
sorts. Disarmament is another
problem which requires careful
study at a lower level but which
the Russians still refuse to have
considered as a practical issue.
“Against popular sentiment,
Mr. Dulles (supported by Mr!
Selwyn Lloyd and M. Pineauj
is still standing firm. The
Russians, left in no doubt that
the Western leaders refuse to
be bullied into a conference at
which the Communists can
ride rough-shod, are now
reported to have indicated that
they are ready to consider
giving the Foreign Ministers a
reasonably free hand. Mr.
Dulles’ firmness is therefore
plainly paying dividends.
“This does not mean that a
summit conference will achieve
anything. It only means that
Western resoluteness, if con-
tinued, will reduce the chances
of its being disastrous.”
Nuclear Pacifists
Stephen King-Hall's Defence
in the Nuclear Age, which,
according to “Pendennis” in
London “Observer,” has
become “the military manual”
of the Campaign for Nuclear
Disarmarment in Britain, goes
so far in its theory of non-
violent resistance as part of
the cold war to concede the
possibility of Soviet occupation
of Britain.
London “Time and Tide”
has already pointed-out that,
under those circumstances,
Britain might well find itself
the base for Soviet nuclear
weapons; adding a further


Ruth -'l'l'l ttb€s
Future
>
In a spirit of friendly appraisal, an English
visitor was telling us recently that he thought
Australians were inclined to be over-confident.
Well, if confidence is to be taken to mean satis-
faction with things as they are—however com-
fortably they may run—l agree that it is far from
being a good thing. But if it means Faith in this
country, with all the will that Faith implies in
working for Australia’s advancement, then I
believe we could never have it in full enough
measure.
It is important that we should distinguish
between the two. But I think we should remember
also that Faith is not an end in itself, and no amount
of patriotic pride is going to stand us in substitute
for national and individual achievements that can
only be won from sustained, hard effort.
There can be no resting in satisfaction, for
instance, while the population of this continent stays
sparse in a crowding world; while great tracts of
arable land lie unused and hundreds of millions of
people in other countries are underfed ; while water
that could slake the land in dry seasons is allowed
to run to sea.
Nor—taking it along to our closer domestic
needs —can we afford to confuse faith and
self-satisfaction when lives are risked and huge
economic losses are incurred on a road system that
is neither good enough nor wide enough to serve
the nation’s growing traffic.
We could follow it through to the adequate
housing of families, and the numberless other
things that make for the complex challenge we have
in building a new country.
But build it we must, confidently and
Faithfully. And my point here is that the real
duty we owe to Australia goes beyond the mere
working to solve the material problems around us:
it means bringing to that task a moral strength
drawn from Belief in the larger purpose of life for
which man was created.
point to that line of thought,
F. S. Mason, of the Winnipeg
“Free Press/’ Canada, comments
in a letter to “Manchester
Guardian” that, “if Britain were
to be occupied by the Soviet
Union, particularly if the
Government were to contract
out, Vichy-like, of all defence-
obligations, she [Britain] would
then become as much a legiti-
mate target for United States
nuclear weapons as occupied
France, Belgium, or Holland
were targets for war-time Allied
bombing. Britain would thus
have the worst of the two
possible worlds: slavery and
nuclear death.”
Commenting generally on the
Campaign for Nuclear Dis-
armament in Britain, the
“Christian Science Monitor”
adds that “many of the
influences, besides the obvious
ones of politics and economics,
which rally some Britons to a
dangerous programme for uni-
lateral nuclear disarmament
exist among all the free
peoples”:
“The individual’s need for
significant activity is just one
of them. They are likely to be
specially strong where people
feel both free and frustrated,
as in Britain. Another reason
they show so clearly in Britain
is to Britain’s credit the
scope that British society offers
to non-conformism, for political
and social dissidents.
“That said, it must also be
stressed that the present move-
ments for unilateral British
nuclear disarmament make no
useful contribution to the still-
short-of-war struggle between
free Western society and the
totalitarianism of the Com-
munist world.”
"Better by the Sea"
An interesting sidelight to
all the discussion and argument
about summit talks is the
comment by a Harley Street
surgeon, in London “Time and
Tide,” on the number of times
that old and ailing leaders have
been sent to the conference-
table, where, in these times,
“lack of judgment and
endurance” could “convert a
crowded country such as ours
[Britain] into a crematorium”:
“During the lifetime of those
of us who have had the luck to
survive two world wars there
have been many meetings at
the summit. We know now that
on certain critical occasions the
Allies sent an ailing or a dying
man to represent them. When
Germany was thoroughly
defeated for the first time, the
very fruits of victory con-
tained the seeds of World
War 11.
“The President of the United
States, Woodrow Wilson, had
been suffering from high blood-
pressure for years. In his
dealings with Lloyd George and
Clemenceau he showed all the
traits of temperament which
are characteristic of that
condition. He was difficult,
dour and impatient. His
opinions were as rigid as his
arteries and his judgment as
unreliable. Soon after the war
ended he had a stroke and the
degeneration in American
foreign affairs kept pace with
that which was taking place in
his own brain. The men who
made the Treaty of Versailles
had placed an order with
posterity for Germany to have
a new dictator. History had
Adolf Hitler waiting in the
wings.
“At the end of the World
War 11, the summit moved to
Yalta. President Roosevelt had
been showing signs of
‘enormous fatigue’ for some
months. Many of the photo-
graphs taken at the conference
had to be suppressed because of
his appearance. His life, we
now know, was almost at its
end and it is hard to believe
that, even with all his courage,
he could stand his ground
against a man like Stalin.
“The next summit can be
seen, a little indistinctly, in
the middle distance. Once
again America will be repre-'
sented by a President who must
now be regarded as a
permanent convalescent. The
illnesses of Wilson and Roose-
velt were kept from the public
as far as possible, but those
of President Eisenhower have
been displayed to the whole
world in morbid detail.
“Sitting with him at the con-
ference-table will be Mr. Dulles.
Not long ago the American
press proclaimed his recovery
from an operation for an
intestinal cancer. It was as
blunt as that. No careful, diplo-
matic choice of words. Matters
which might properly be
mentioned only to a nearest
relative were given nation-wide
publicity.
“We can fully share the satis-
faction. which was felt at such
a surgical success, and yet many
wonder whether Mr. Dulles
should permit himself to pre-
judice his future, and indeed
our own, by carrying a burden
greater than his strength can
bear.
“It looks as if America learns
little from experience and that
for the third time she will send
to the summit men who might
be better by the sea.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Who’d Be a Defendant?
Being a defendant in the
N.S.W. Traffic Court is the
least satisfactory sport I know.
Whatever the facts, if you plead
“Not Guilty,” your case will
be adjourned (sometimes more
than once), and then you’re up
for solicitor’s, witnesses’ and
court costs which amount to a
tidy sum in the end —win, lose,
or draw.
If you plead “Guilty,” you’re
summarily dealt with —and a
£5 fine with £1 costs (in default,
something like 12 days) seems
to be the average assessment
of magistrates for the most
minor offence.
I realise that court facilities
and personnel are inadequate in
relation to the ever-increasing
pressure of traffic-offences these
days, but there must be some-
thing radically wrong (and
remediable) with a system
which, “Guilty” or “Not
Guilty,” invariably makes the
former plea the cheapest way
out.—P. O. M. C. (N.S.W-)*
Smoking on Trial
Apropos “Well - Cured’s”
comments (B. 5/3/’5B). I was
a 20-a-day man with sundry
pipes and cigars thrown-in for
additional comfort.
I had a major operation
recently in a repat. hospital. I
coughed as I was admitted to
the ward. This, I subsequently
found, conveyed to the worthy
sisters that I was an addict
requiring pre- and post-
operative treatment.
With a needle or two and
constant breathing and concer-
tina chest-exercises, those girls
extracted enough rubbish to
convince me my lungs had
functioned as some type of
tar-distillation plant for years.
In addition, the chest-cavity
was a dump for decayed
vegetable - matter insoluble
tobacco-leaf powder. I was
shocked into complete, and, I
hope, permanent abstention.
I don’t know about cancer,
but, if you can’t give up
smoking, pop into hospital and
get decarbonised. — Old Open-
cut (S.A.).
A Plea for Trams
Whether buses are speedier
than trams (B. 26/2/’5B)
depends on who is running
them. Melbourne trams, for
example, run to faster schedules
than London buses. Sydney is
the only city I know which
indulges in the arch-lunacy of
compelling all trams to stop
at every stop, and it costs the
taxpayers plenty. The utter
irresponsibility of the public
servants who order this is
scandalous.
Nor can I agree that trams
are more obstructive to road-
traffic than buses.
Firstly, it takes something
like twice the number of buses
“ There's something on my head!”
to shift the same number of
people, and, secondly, buses just
don’t command the same
patronage as trams. The
increase in the number of
private cars on the road after
replacing trams with buses
causes worse congestion than
the trams did in the first place.
Possibly Sydney’s trams are
being sacrificed through some
mistaken idea that this will
benefit private motorists, but
these are in for a disappoint-
ment. Over the past couple of
years I have driven in Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney and Bris-
bane, and I was held-up far
more in Adelaide and Sydney
than in the other two cities.
If Sydney wants to improve
on its trams it should be think-
ing of “rapid transit,” not buses.
This is something intermediate
between tramways and electric
railways, and some of the
remaining tram - routes in
Sydney would be very suitable
for improving to this standard.
It is often pointed-out that
trams are disappearing -in the
U.S. ; what is ignored is the
extent to which “rapid transit”
is taking their place. In Boston
can be found four-car trains
of fully air-conditioned,
less” super-trams capable of
accelerating from 0 to 40 m.p.h.
in under 14 seconds, with a
top speed of 76 m.p.h. on level
track. No Sydney bus could
equal that performance and
probably not very many of
Svdney’s private cars.—A. J. A.
(Vic.).
Railway the Snail-way
Even under a non-Labor
Government the big Socialist
stick is still wielded in Queens-
land.
When Stanthorpe Shire
Council bought a motor-truck
(Treasury approval necessary),
the successful dealer also
tendered to deliver the Iruck
from Brisbane to Stanthorpe
for £lO. The Treasury* ever
alert to bolster State revenue,
approached the railways for a
delivery quote. It was £5O.
Representations to reconsider
reduced it to £4O, and upon
further pressure from the
Treasury the charge fell to
£lo' the same amount as
private enterprise, which was
thereby squeezed-out.
Then the shade of W. S.
Gilbert took a hand. The
vehicle was lost in transit. The
matter was eventually taken-up
with the Minister for Railways,
and the truck was located at
Townsville, 1031 miles away
from its destination! Moreover,
it had taken nine days to get
there. Had it gone by road it
would have been at its proper
destination in six hours or less.
The truck was returned by
fast train, with presumably top
VIP priority. A utility, which
instead of the truck should have
gone from Brisbane to Towns-
ville, had also been on tour;
it was taken first to Stanthorpe
and then back to Brisbane and
eventually to Townsville. —
Vox Populi (Qld.).
Child Slavery
“Peter Simple” (B. 19/3/’5B)
gets right down to earth in his
arguments in favor of boys of
10 years and upwards doing a
bit of useful work.
As one who was brought-up
on a small South Australian
mixed-farm, I recall that the
whole family had various little
jobs allocated to them —feeding
and watering the fowls, collect-
ing the eggs, feeding the pigs,
rounding-up the cows, milking,
and turning the separator.
Perhaps some of these chores
were at times done with a bad
grace, but they were necessary
for survival under the economic
conditions of 50 years ago.
I walked to school three
miles daily and rarely missed a
day. This method of living
applied to practically the whole
of the 80/90 children attending
the school. Mostly the parents
had big families.
In the school education
comprised essentials only. At
home the children learned to
work hard, to be careful with
money and put it to the best
possible use, which was sound
business training. Qualities of
initiative were thereby
developed, and early in their
lives they realised that their
future rested with themselves.
Early rising was the vogue —a
healthy habit.
I know the history of many
of the boys of my particular
district. Today many hold
positions of trust and have
taken their places as useful
citizens. Would they have
been better citizens had they


CHATEAU TANUNDA
Stories of the Coastal Lights No. 16
wmm
Iron Pot
The oldest lighthouse tower in use to-day in Australia is
Tasmania’s oddly-named Iron Pot, near Hobart. This square
stone tower is 40 ft. high and came into service on September
16, 1833.
The Iron Pot itself is a small rock about one acre in area
and with a maximum height of 35 ft. at the entrance to the
River Derwent. It is well-known as a nesting place for sea-
gulls. The origin of the name is not certain, but the rock
was described as "Iron Pot Island” in correspondence dated
1825.
The first light established there consisted of two per-
pendicular spars 10 ft. apart with a horizontal cross-piece
which was fixed about 50 ft. above the highest part of the
island. From this cross-piece was hung a crude lantern,
which could be lowered to the ground by rope tackle for
lighting the wicks and other attention. This light was first
lit on November 11, 1832, but early records make it doubtful
whether it was kept burning every night.
However, it had not been in use long before—in Decem-
ber, 1832 —it was decided to erect a permanent stone tower
to replace the original. Part of the original timber structure
can be seen in the walls of the present tower. The light is
65 ft. above high water level.
For 87 years, the tower was manned (new houses were built
for the head lightkeeper and his two assistants in 1888),
becoming fully automatic in 1920, Five years earlier, the
light • had been transferred to Commonwealth control —
together with Tasmania’s other lighthouses—but it was
handed back to the State in 1925. The light has a strength
of 1,500 candlepower and can be seen for 11 miles in clear
weather.
The fact that the Iron Pot tower is in perfect condition
to-day after 124 years of use, is a unique tribute to its
builders. Only one lighthouse on the Australian coast was
built before it —that was the Macquarie light on Sydney’s
South Head, opened in 1818, but rebuilt on a new site near
the original tower in 1883.
The position of the Iron Pot Lighthouse is latitude 43°
04’ south, longitude 147° 26' east. Hobart is 12 miles away.
You can have confidence in the quality
of this pure grape brandy
CHATEAU TANUNDA
N.S.W. Agents
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 120 years
stayed in bed each morning
until the last moment? I doubt
it.
In the same district today
the children are driven to
school in cars and met again
at night, with little or no duties
at home.
The boy of 14 who gets
on the milk-cart to assist earns
money, usually for some useful
purpose. Isn’t this better than
spending hours in the milk-bar
or holding-up the street corner
at night?
Work of this nature never
hurt a healthy boy ; more likely
it will strengthen him physically
and improve his outlook for the
manhood responsibilities ahead.
Let us be sensible; if the
boys want to earn pocket-
money with extra-school jobs,
“Could you tell me the time please ?”
so long as they are not too
burdensome, then let them. —
C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
Melbourne and Edinburgh
. If Australia is ever to have a
festival of world standing (B.
.19/3/’5B), it is fitting that Mel-
bourne should be the setting.
Of Australian capital cities,
Melbourne is most like Edin-
burgh, scene of a great festival
of the arts. The Scottish capital
is more ancient and romantic,
Melbourne livelier and more
cosmopolitan; yet there is a
resemblance, even to the
suburbs, where the quieter
districts of Edinburgh with their
lawn-bordered streets, well-
kept brick houses and gardens
might be in one of the northern
suburbs of Melbourne.
The climate- is similar;
neither festival can really count
on a week without cold and
rain; and there is even the
same smell, compounded of
smoke, mist, and green grass.
If he imagined the green
canyon of Prince’s Street
replaced by the waters of the
Yarra, the Castle by the dome
of Flinders Street station, and
the glimpses of the Firth by
the shipping at Port Mel-
bourne, any Melburnian would
feel perfectly at home in
Edinburgh. And the visitor to
either city would find the same
kindness, warmth, and courtesy
to strangers, overlaid by an
apparent reserve. —Ah Me
(S.A.).
Treatment of Natives
Pastoralists in Westralia’s
nor-west scoff at reports in
southern dailies that , the abo.
is poorly treated.
So far as the stations are
concerned, they don’t seem to
be. .Admittedly they are not
employed at award rates, for
two reasons. Firstly, too much
money is pot good for them
(Chinese and half-caste traders
in the towns would rob them);
secondly, where a man is
employed his missus, kids and
near relatives also are accepted.
The station abo. receives a
month’s leave each year with
a bonus of £25, plus £75
spending-money (again mostly
“blued” on fripperies in the
towns) and provisions for the
four-weeks’ walkabout,
The position is different with
many natives on reserves who
have savored town- or mission-
life or have been in close
contact with whites. They are
unhappy and are not well
looked-after, except in some of
the missions
k
mtle pfactical schSg
n . • v
not in the three R s so much
as in skills which will assist
of
mechanics for elementary
repairs to vehicles and domestic
arts for their womenfolk.
By these means they can best
fit into the pattern of Western
civilisation as it is being
developed in the north. —
Plain Australian (Vic.).
Greenbelt Sp-eculators
The attempt by N.S.W.
Housing Minister Landa to
obtain home-sites for the Hous-
ing Commission by persuading
the Cumberland County
Council to rezone land in
greenbelt and rural areas
deserved a better reception
than it got from the press,
This very procedure has been
a goldmine to speculators,
agents, and others who were
just plain lucky, ever since the
first plan of interim develop-
ment was produced. The bright
boys have gone through every
municipality with a fine-tooth
comb, examining plans and
quizzing anyone with know-
ledge of proposed amendments,
as well as sorting-out anomalies


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world-ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week. ""
exploitable to their own profit.
Their usual lurk is to obtain
an option over land that has
been injuriously affected by
zoning, while the owner is in
a panic. The period of option
gives sufficient time for investi-
gation and string-pulling to
determine that the deal is a
certainty. The only unhappy
party is the original owner
who was credulous enough to
accept a County Plan at face-
value —No Oscar (N.S.W.).
Locomotives
“Transportic us” (B.
19/3/’SB) well knows my
argument that diesel economy
quickly recovers and overtakes
high initial outlay, but 111
throw a bit more into the ring ;
and both “T.” and “K.J.C.”
should consider it when talking
about steam-locos.
Apart from electricity, which
the Victorian Railways buy in
bulk from the S.E.C., there is
no indigenous locomotive-fuel
in this State. Consequently,
being dependent on N. S. Wales
for good coal is little different
from relying on another nation
for diesel-fuel. Even in peace-
time we begged for N. S. Wales
coal and saw essential services
nearly grind to a halt. Yet,
since import-restrictions were
lifted, there has never been any
interruption to the flow of fuel-
oil from overseas. Preference
for national fuel is good senti-
ment, provided you can get
the stuff.
This very point caused the
V-R. to turn in desperation to
residual-oil for steam-locos
during the coal-shortage, when
we were firing our boilers with
everything from stringybark to
newspaper; the highlight was
the importation of coal from
India and Sth. Africa.
But fuel is not the only
concern in locomotive-running.
One of the major headaches in
Victoria is the supply of good
water for steam-locos; there
are few localities where water-
catchments provide good water
for domestic use, let alone for
locomotives. And in many
locations the railways have to
provide their own catchment,
storage and reticulation. The
high content of dissolved
chemical-solids in Victorian
country waters causes steam-
locos to be called-in every .3000
miles for washout, despite the
use of water - treatment
cartridges on every loco as a
supplement to that on the site
of water-supply. Particularly
in the north and nor’ west areas
“-and combined cocktail-shaker .”
it is impossible to carry more
than an inch or two of water
in the gauge-glass for fear of
priming, which results in lost
lubrication and possible
motion-gear damage. And a
driver cannot get the best
performance from his engine
because his valve cut-off is so
restricted by the “lightness” of
water in the boiler.
I’d be the last to ignore steam
experiments in turbo-electricity,
free-piston, etc.; I’ve respect
for the drawing-board, but I’m
hanged if I’ll stagnate in the
historical museum of steam-
locos as we know them today.—
Four Threes (Vic.).
Do It Yourself!
After struggling for years to
get egg-production ahead of
feed- and labor-costs, mV
neighbor decided to instal
clock - controlled lighting,
hoping to boost his intensive
set-up. He was quoted £220
for labor and material. He
decided to do the job himself.
Took four Sunday afternoons.
I saw the cheque-butt for the
material he used: £2B 19s!— <
Cocuswood (N.S.W.).
Getting a Plain Answer
Oliver cheery story
about building a war-service
home (B, 1/1 / ’5B) makes the
account of my own difficulties,
written earlier, sound by con-
trast deplorably sour. I’m
glad, however; that some
applicants obtain a home
more" expeditiously than we
did and one that is apparently
more habitable, too —after
nearly four years our own
home still falls short of our
not-too-exacting requirements.
There is, it should be noted,
a significant difference
between Mr. Filter’s case and
mine. He engaged a private
architect. My wife and I,
trusting that the dept.’s
architects would see to it that
their own meticulous specifica-
tions were adhered to, paid the
supervision-fee of £54 4s. 6d.
My case made fairly plain
just how zealously the super-
visors earned that fee. I
wonder, for instance, what
proportion of our £54 was
paid out for the supervision of
the bricklayer who built our
front porch without proper
foundations and little or no
cement, or what proportion
was devoted to supervision of
the 11 defective items men-
tioned in the “Addendum to
Specifications” handed to Con-
tractor No. 2! These included
provision of damp courses,
repair of under-floor timbers,
the jacking-up of the back-
veranda, replacement of 11
fibro - cement roofing-sheets,
and renewal of large areas of
faulty plaster-work, etc.
Nothing has been done to
straighten the external
chimney - stack, which the
dept, admits is “slightly out
of plumb.” Windows at front
and rear still leak badly dur-
ing storms, and after only
seven months’ occupancy the
yacht-varnish on the vertical
weatherboards is worn through
to the bare wood.
Negligence has never been
officially admitted, nor our
charges satisfactorily
answered. iWhich is why we
insist that it is unjust that 3
Government department, hay*
ing allowed the original com
tract to collapse in such
circumstances, should then so
blandly call upon us to find
an additional £320 14s. 6d. to
set-up a second contract for
the job’s completion.
Last December —just 12
months after my original
request for the information,
and after sending a personal
letter to the Prime Minister-*
1 received a copy of the clause
upon which the division’s
action had been based. Sub-
sequently a true copy of the
document was sent by the
deputy-director.
A year to obtain a plain
answer to a justifiable question
cl principle: why should the
department have been so
reluctant to give such an
answer?
How much, honestly, is the
Government doing to inhibit
the metamorphosis of more-or«
less permanent departmental
heads into ever-so-permanent
commissars?
Dean- Inge observed: “The
safeguard against tyranny is|
orderly government, and such
a system of checks and bal-
ances as existed under the late
lamented British Constitution
.... Any process of levelling
the population, by removing
checks and balances, is fatal
to Freedom.”
The checks and balances are
still there. After months of
weary effort my wife and I
managed to make them
operate —a little. But they
seem to be getting alarmingly
rusty; and possibly the
rustiest of all is the great
central check of responsibility :,
the right to ask men in
authority to account for their
actions —the duty of such men,
to render an account, promptly
and without reservations.
Apart from this, the
restraints the private citizen
may impose upon bureaucratic
irresponsibility are tenuous, as
a reading of Professor F. A.
Bland’s Planning the Modern
State makes clear. The
members of the Neyj
Despotism are so anonymous,
so un-get-at-able, so mutually
loyal, so well-organised, and
so permanent!
Meanwhile, I am revarnish-
ing the exterior walls, and my
wife- runs for the bucket and
mop whenever the rain beats
against the northern Of
southern windows of our war-
service home. — J. F. Stephen®
(Vic.).


PEDIGREES FROM HERE TO NOAH
By PETER MANN
THIS week the curtain is up
on one of Australia’s best
and most expensive shows —
Sydney’s annual sale of
thoroughbred yearlings at
Inglis’s Newmarket stables.
Some 734 yearlings are cata-
logued for this year’s sale and,
taking a line from last year,
they are likely to bring a total
of at least £400,000.
Some lucky buyer may get
a champion for a hundred-or-so
guineas—or pay five- or six-
thousand guineas for a dud,
which is what many of the
top-priced lots have been in
the past. But, howevet his
yearling turns-out on the
tracks, at least the buyer will
get a real aristocrat, a specimen
of the most aristocratically-
bred creature in the world.
Every one of those 734
yearlings can trace its descent
-directly back to one of three
horses imported into England
.nearly 300 years ago. And
through those three “founda-
tion” Arab horses, the 1958
Australian yearling can trace
its family literally almost back
to Noah’s Ark. The pedigree
of Arab horses goes back 5000
years to the wild horses
captured and owned by Baz,
the great-great-grandson of
Noah.
Horse-racing started in
Arabia. Horses were kept
thirsty and trained to race to
the nearest water. One famous
. race of this type, for a stake
of 100 camels a side, resulted
in so much strife over the
sharp tactics of supporters of
one competitor that it led to
an inter-tribal war lasting more
than 100 years.
In those days big “owners”
kept “stables” that would leave
anything known today in the
shade. If King Solomon ever
got tired of his numerous wives
he could always send ’em for
a ride. In a day when a
chariot cost 600 silver shekels
and a horse 150 shekels,
Solomon had 40,000 chariot-
horses and 12,000 trained
saddle-horses.
In the Kingdom of Hira,
round the year 120 A.D.,
King Bahram had just the bare
40,000 horses carrying his
colors. And in the same year,
following an upheaval in his
own territory, the King of
Yemen took refuge in Syria
and took along with him, for
company, his stable of 80,000
Arab horses.
But even these kings were
small stuff compared to the
Caliph Motassem, who, in 840
A.D., had his brand on no
fewer than 130,000 Arab
horses. That’s about 10 times
as many horses as there are
racing in Australia today. As
late as 1614, Kings of Persia
would have as many as 50,000
Arab mares in their studs. .
Egyptians of 700 or 800
years ago were among the
greatest racing fanatics of all
“Trust HER to make a show of herself!"
time. And the greatest fanatic
among them was the Sultan El
Naseri, who was in action
round 1290 A.D. It was a
pretty ordinary sort of day on
which the Sultan would spend
a mere £84,000 picking-up a
few new horses for his stable.
He paid £30,000 for one
famous stallion and then went
well beyond that mark with
the 64,000 Turkish pounds
(about £70,000 of our money)
he paid for a racing filly. As a
matter of fact, that figure stood
as a world-record price for a
racehorse until just a few years
ago.
Of course some of these
Arab were pretty hot
stuff by the standards of the
day. There is record of one
early Arab flyer named Harun
which was bought for 1000
gold dinars and was unbeaten
for 20 years.
The Ancient Greeks liked
their racing, and even made a
family-matter of it. Boy-
friends of a lass named Hippo-
damia were apt to think twice
when they learned that they
could marry her only if they
could race her old man, King
Oenomaus, over a 100-miles
course leading from his palace
to the border of his kingdom,
He reckoned his daughter was
not going to marry anybody
who didn’t have better horses
than his own.
Losers were bumped-off per-
sonally by the king and their
heads set up over the palace
door. Surveying the dozen
heads decorating the parental
portals, Hippodamia must have
nearly resigned herself to a
life on the shelf. ,
She was rescued ultimately
by a ivily lad named Pelops
who bribe‘d the king’s
charioteer to swipe the linch’
pin from the royal chariot and
substitute a wax dummy that
would melt in the heat of the
race. The king collected a
broken neck and Pelops
collected the kingdom plus
royal princess.
Early Romans, too, were
keen racers. They conquered
North Africa and “liberated”
hundreds of Arab horses to
race in Rome in the great
Circus Maximus —possibly the
greatest sporting-arena ever
built. . The Circus Maximus
held 380,000 spectators —more
than three times the biggest
crowd that’s ever turned-oul
for a Melbourne Cup, or even
an Aussie Rules final on Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground. The
Romans first introduced Arab
horses, possible earliest fore-
runners of the modern
thoroughbred, to Britain, but
details are sketchy.
Arab horses continued to
drift into Britain and in 1377
Sir Alured de Vere’s horse
Arundel raced and beat a horse
owned by the Prince of Wales
(later King Richard). Adding
insult to injury, Sir Alured then
sold his nag to the Prince for
£20,000 —a fantastic price in
a day when an average sort of
horse cost a matter of pence.
The Prince evened both the
insult and the injury by tossing
Sir Alured into the
Tower at first oppor-
tunity.
Over the next few
hundred years scores
of Arab horses were
imported to England
and started spreading
the blood. King
Charles II was the
keenest of the keen
over this period,
spending tens of
thousands a year on
racing.
But the “Big Three”
came to England
round the end of the
17th century. They
were the Dar 1 e y
Arabian, the Godol-
phin Arabian and the
Byerley Turk, and
every yearling put up
at the Sydney sales this
week, every thorough-
bred racing in Aus-
tralia and every
thoroughbred in the
world can be traced back direct
to one of these three.
Prices of thoroughbreds
have soared to even more than
double the £70,000 old Sultan
El Naseri paid for his filly 700
years ago. Top price for a
modern sire has hit as much
as £150,000 and an English
Derby winner is reckoned to
be worth £lOO,OOO the minute
he passes the post.
But maybe the top price ever
offered for a horse still dates
back to 1681, when King Louis
XIV launched racing ih France
with a plate worth 1000
pistoles. It was won by a horse
brought over from England for
the race and the king offered
to buy this champion for its
weight in gold.
The owner declined the offer
and instead presented the horse
to the king. Which, remember-
ing Sir Alured, might have
been a smart move.


ROYAL JELLY
Direct from the bees. FabulouslJ!
rich vitalising dietary supplement.
One month’s supply, in capsule*.
£5/6/-, or mixed in 6 ounces <8
honey, £6. Technical data 2/%
Free Leaflet.
». A- PEACOCK i
Apiarist, XI Carbine Streep
KEBAK6. VICTORIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE DROUGHT
nrHE present drought,
reported in the daily press
as being ended, will probably
be remembered by farmers and
graziers as the one in which
stock suffered least, and stock-
owners suffered most. For while
stock - losses have been
negligible, losses in other direc-
tions have been so grave that
many think it would have been
better to have allowed a few
hundred thousand sheep to die.
Huge quantities of stored
fodder have been consumed ;
hundreds of thousands of
acres previously covered with
admirable improved - pastures
have been left naked to wind-
and water-erosion; and the
financial setback caused by 18
months of depressed prices for
stock is possibly the most
serious aspect of all.
The physical picture of the
land, as seen from a plane, is
sbll bare, brown earth almost
everywhere west of the scrub-
covered Dividing Range. Seen
at closer quarters there is a
wonderful germination of
clovers and a spirited start in all
Care should be taken
to avoid stock coming
into contact with
garden plants. Two
valuable rams recent-
ly died as the result
of eating Iceland
Poppy plants. Other
plants which are
poisonous to stock
include larkspur, del-
phinium, oleander,
rhododendron, arum
lily, etc. The prac-
tice of marking and
tailing with a cutting
instrument is another
seiious menace to
lambs. Elastrator
Rubber Rings should
be used. They do not
cause blood loss or
the open wounds
which can become
infected by disease
germs.
types of pasture, and most dams
appear to be full.
But no one on the land feels
that the drought is over.
Empty grain- and hay-sheds
give a feeling of acute in-
security, which can only
“What name that pfeller wurlie?”
removed by continuous and
generous rains until well into
spring.
Until that time there will be
a general uneasiness and a con-
viction that a few dry months
could make our position worse
than it has ever been before.
It is foolish, therefore, to
fay that the drought has been
broken, just because we have
had a few good falls of rain.
We shotild reorient our think-
ing to embrace the fact that a
drought is really a long period
during which the rate of
pasture-growth is slower than
the rate of consumption.
Similarly, recovery from a
drought can only be brought
about by a prolonged period
during which consumption is
markedly less than the rate of
growth. The worse the drought,
the longer the period of
recovery.
Particularly on this occasion,
where a series of excellent
seasons had induced the belief
that sown pastures could be
relied upon to yield sufficient
pastures for a much heavier
rate of stocking than had pre-
viously been considered prac-
ticable, and that subterranean-
clover growth, tall and dense
enough to bale for hay, could
be expected as a normal spring-
time phenomenon.
A glance at the rainfall-
record for, say, 50 years, will
show that for a very large area
of the inland a “clover year”
must be regarded as the excep-
tion rather than the rule.
It looks rather as if we will
have to modify our ideas of
how' many sheep we can carry
in many areas which have been
chronically overstocked (by
normal standards) for many
years. We must face-up to a
future in which the prosperity
of recent years will be regarded
be as a past period of wonderful
opportunities ; opportunities
which, in many cases, land-
owners missed.
The other aspect of the
drought, the financial one, is
just as discouraging. Prospects
of a recovery look grim when
we contemplate the fall in wool-
prices and the continuous rise
in the cost of production, over
which the landowner has little
or no control.
There is no big lift in the
price of sheep to compensate
those who have battled to
bring all their stock through the
drought; apart from low wool-
prices, meat-processors’ stores
and freezing-works are full of
cheaply-bought meat. It may
take many years of tough going
to get back to conditions we
have been regarding as normal.
Then there are all those in
non-rural occupations who
have been making a good thing
out of farmers’ prosperity, from
country - town stores to
machinery-manufacturers and
a host of allied enterprises.
They will be receiving a severe
setback too. It seems to me
as if all those, in this country,
who have been riding on the
sheep’s back, may need to gef
off and walk for a while.
E. O. SCHLUNKE.
Vealers
“Sawtell”: Here, on the
N.S.W. south-western slopes,
quite a few graziers have made
a good thing out of vealers.
On our property, we plan to
have the first lot of our Black
Poll vealers ready for market*
ing just after Christmas, when
prices are normally high.
Besides catching the market at
the right time, the calves are
sold before they begin to lose
condition, which usually hap*
pens when the cows begin
to go off in milk-production
about that time.
The cows then have a 2-5
months’ spell before calving in
March. We find that a March
calving works-out very well.
The cows run in sheep-
paddocks with dry feed, and
with green picks in gullies and
swamps. By the time the
calves are old enough to need
more milk the autumn break
has usually arrived, and when
moved to a better paddock
they are able to take advan*
tage of the flush of milk.
The calves are branded a!
5-6 weeks old. The breeding-
season starts in June. The cows
are split into three mobs and
moved to the breeding*
paddocks, where feed is good.
These paddocks are also used
to fatten any cattle to be sold
during the winter.
Meanwhile, more calves are
arriving all the time, and the
cows are moved in with the
bulls as they calve. By Sep-
tember the first lot of calves
are ready to be moved out.
They are then drafted, the
cows with heifer-calves going
to one paddock, those with
steers to another.
One paddock is green right
through the summer, and,
besides fattening the vealers
on the swamps and kangaroo*
grass, is one of our main
sheep-paddocks. It has been
greatly improved by liberal
use of super.
The other paddock is only
80 acres, but at the end of
October, when it begins to
dry-off, we commence irrigate
ing by means of drains run-
ning from springs or small


I A HAMMER
BLOW RBTA/HS
k THE WIRE *
\ i
BULB A BETTER
FARM FERCE WITH
THE STEEL FENCE DROPPER
WITH THE LUG
■nMBHHHnMHHBHHHUMnHHii
PARTICULARLY SUITED FOR INTERMEDIATE SUPPORT FOR
EITHER MESH TYPE OR PLAIN WIRE FENCES
IDEAL FOR REPLACING BURNT OR ROTTED WOODEN
DROPPERS
RUGGED STRENGTH AND LIGHT WEIGHT
LUG SPACINGS TO SUIT ALL TYPES OF FENCING
COATED WITH WEATHER-RESISTANT PAINT
SUPPLIED IN LENGTHS OF 4' 6", 4' 0", 3' 9"
Solely manufactured by 1 n
STEEL MILLS LTD.
STEEL ROLLERS AND MERCHANTS
SHADDOCK AVENUE, VILLAWOOD, N.S.W.
PHONES: UB 2767, UB 3394, UB 3395
Obtainable from
WOOL HOUSES, STOCK & STATION
AGENTS & ALL LEADING COUNTRY
STORES, OR ENQUIRE DIRECT TO
STEEL MILLS LIMITED.
streams in the hills. The
resulting lush growth, com-
bined with ample dry feed,
brings the calves on quickly,
and in about six weeks’ time
they are ready for sale at
about 3001 b. weight. They are
sold locally as a rule, but this
year all our vealers went by
rail to Homebush, and the
results were excellent.
Now the cows go into the
dry paddocks, and the next lot
of calves move on to the
irrigation. These younger
calves are sold at an earlier
age, 7-8 months, and by the
time the first frosts arrive,
spoiling the irrigation, the
best vealers are all sold.
All the calves old enough
are then weaned. Any steers
likely to fatten go into the
breeding-paddocks, for sale
about August when vealers
are scarce. The rest of the
calves, together with any cows
with calves still sucking, are
moved to the hilly sheep-
paddocks, where they usually
get by without hand-feeding.
- These late calves are often
the heifers we keep for breed-
ing. We find that they grow
well, and, if not mated till
about 20 months old, make
excellent cows.
It is usually' more profitable
to sell the fat heifers than to
keep them. Apart from their
market value, we find that
these heifers don’t make the
best mothers —most of the
feed goes into condition
rather than milk.
We use Black Poll herd-bulls
on crossbred cows —Hereford,
Shorthorn, and Black Poll
blood. We have a good line
of cows now, heavy milkers
and “good doers.” Our oldest
cows, now 10 years old, are
still good for another two or
three years, when they will be
replaced by another lot of
heifers. In a few years the
herd will be all black, and,
ultimately, it may become
necessary to introduce a Poll
Shorthorn or Hereford bull,
for size. In our opinion, the
pure blacks tend to become
too small.
If a cow loses a calf or
misses, she is drafted into the
fattening-paddock. -
Finally, I think it pays to
name all the cattle, and keep
a complete record of dates of
calving and breeding. Then
you always know just how old
the calves are, and when the
cow will calve again. There
is no point in selling or wean-
ing a calf if the cow won’t
come in for 5 or 6 months.
It is handy, too, to know the
cows’ ages. If you have any
doubts about knowing them—
black cattle, in particular, are
tricky—it is a simple matter
to mark each year’s heifers
with a distinguishing ear-
mark or brand.
Autumn Lambing
“Marina”: Among changes
in sheep-management on many
western-district (Vic.) pro-
perties, autumn-lambing—like
autumn-shearing has many
supporters among progressive
graziers.
Although autumn lambing
follows a less-favorable mating-
period than the common
August drop does, weather con-
ditions are far better in autumn
than in the rough, windy, and
cold climate of late winter.
March-April conditions can
be hard, but they are usually
stable, and can always be
covered by adequate conserved-
fodder especially now that
short-term silage is becoming
popular on so many properties.
A hand-fed flock at this time
of the year gives lambs a
chance of becoming used to
taking conserved fodder
through the winter—a lesson
which is never forgotten, but
which is hard to teach weaners
who have never been fed with
their parents.
Another big advantage is that
the spring weaner has the
chance to get out on his own
to lush pastures, instead of
having to forage at the tail-
end of summer, and fill himself
with dry feed which encourages
> worms.
The November-shorn weaner


DEVELOP YOUR PROPERTY
£COMO6ffCAIiY with
HUMES
eemroecee cawe# ere
V;
'V. ,
+Z:
\*2
>m n*
• TROUGHING
• WELL LININGS
• PIPES
Humes centrifugally
spun reinforced concrete
is practically everlasting
and needs no maintenance.
Install—and forget.
HUMES LIMITED
43 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY. 8X4165
FACTORIES IN:
Adamstown, Grafton, Harden, Lismore,
Queanbeyan, Rydalntere, Tatnworfh. hs
is a less-likely target for blow-
flies than the August-dropped
lamb, which carries its fleece
through the hot weather to get
shorn as a hogget when a little
over a year old.
Autumn-dropped lambs- may
be fewer, but they could be
better than the later lamb.
In addition, they are not being
born when most graziers are
getting ready for the big pre-
Christmas rush of shearing,
mowing, baling, stacking, and,
often, cereal-harvesting.
Urea
“Billjim”: Trials conducted
at Tatura (Vic.) by a former
Agriculture Department
research-officer, A. G. Goudie,
have demonstrated that a late-
summer application of nitro-
genous fertiliser was worth
more than a 50 per cent,
increase in production over the
cost of the fertiliser.
The tests were held on an
irrigation property at this
period because, Goudie
believes, March is the worst
month of the year for the feed-
ing of stock.
Urea, which is 46 per cent,
nitrogen, was put on two five-
acre paddocks of irrigated
perennial pasture. One
paddock was top-dressed in
February and the other in
March, with I.6cwt. of urea to
the . acre immediately after
grazing, and then both were
irrigated.
The productivity of the two
paddocks (compared with pro-
ductivity in other years) was
increased by 501 b. of butterfat
per acre in the paddock carry-
ing the February application,
and 351 b. of butterfat per acre
in the case of the March
application.
Goudie found that most of
the pasture-growth on his
property in late summer and
early autumn was made by
paspalum, and it was this
species that responded most to
the applications of urea.
Treated pastures were kept well
grazed, and after the effects of
the urea had worn-off they still
retained the same proportion of
clover.
Doggy Wool
I read with interest the
M.O.L. article by J. N. Bridg-
land on doggy wools, all of
which seems very true. I have
had a bit of experience with this*
class of wool, but I got out of
it, luckily, as quickly as I got
into it.
I was cutting a good class of
medium wool, in the Moree
(N.S.W.) district, using rams
from a well-known Queensland
stud for some years, and on
several occasions topped the
Sydney market. As I didn't
think the sheep were cutting
heavy-enough and as
1 was getting too many black
and piebald lambs, I looked
around for a change of rams.
I settled for what looked to
be a good, plain, dense class
of ram from a certain stud,
paying lOgns. and getting the
.rams picked by a well-known
sheep-classer.
Although the rams weie
plain-many lambs from the first
drop were wrinkly, and I didn’t
like them at all. When the
first full fleece was-taken off,
a large percentage showed-up
doggy, which class of wool I
had never had previously.
I was not as experienced then
as I became later, and I was
talked into getting another lot
of rams from the same stud at
15gns.,. as a supposedly good
sheepman said a second, better
lot of rams would probably nick
better. 1 had disastrous
results and it looked as if I
had ruined my sheepf
I got rid of these rams and
went down to the Sheep Show,
going through the sheep care-
fully, and finally picking on
some western rams that had
had no outside blood for many
years. These rams completely
transformed my flock and I
can say I was never able to
find another doggy fleece. I
have been using the same blood
now for over 20 years, with
no doggy wool or black sheep,
G. L. H9BSON.
Controlling A.F.B.
“B-herd”: In January of this
year a northern N. S. Wales
beekeeper parted with £l6-odd
in the Texas (Q.) court-house
—the penalty for ferrying
beehives over the border with-
out the required stock-
inspector’s certificate of free-
dom from disease. Some
keepers might think this penalty
inadequate.'
But then the whole procedure
is inadequate. Had this
particular bee-herd known the
(drill, he’d have certified the
bees were right, then crossed
over. At best, the Queensland
department is made aware of
his entry, but no steps are taken
to ensure that the bees are as
stated on the certificate.
In this case, a lucky accident
indicated their parlous condi-
tion—they were flecked with
American‘foul-brood. The bee-
keeper concerned ‘was young—
and keen enough—but he didn’t
know his bees were diseased. He
had bought them shortly before
he'set out to make his fortune,
following the fl,ows.
He’d still be following them—
and spreading the worst disease
of bees we know —if an experi-
enced man hadn’t stumbled on
two or three of his colonies
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(25/3/’58)
Reasonably good trains should occur on the coast of
Queensland during April, with fairly heavy falls from
Bundaberg south. Light to moderate, patchy rains . are
indicated elsewhere, poor in the west and far south-west.
General rains likely in June.
Heavy rains are indicated on the north and central
coasts pf N.S.W. during April, with reasonably good rain on
the south coast. Rainfall probably poor elsewhere. Moderate
rain likely on the southern tablelands, south-west slopes and
Riverina during May, and this should be followed by general
rains in June.
Rainfall probably poor in Victoria during April,
although good general rains are indicated in May, with
heavier falls in June and July.
South Australia may get only poor fain during April,
apart from moderate rain in the lower north. General
rains should commence in the agricultural areas during
May, and in the whole of the State during June.
Most of Western Australia should get good general
rains during April, although there may be light rain only
on the lower south coast.
LENNOX WALKER.


8m a
QiuMf
STORM LANTERN
and get value for
money! Gives 12 hours
brilliant light on only l|
pints of kerosene. Abso-
lutely wind and weather-
proof. A Reflector is
available as an extra if
required.
And 100% British Made too I
I
300 Candlepower
Model X 241
‘Stt’tke, diUetenw!
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores throughout Australia,
In case of.difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to .*«
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE}
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Aloxandor Road, Essandon, Victoria.
abandoned back along his
tracks.
The incident brings out the
inadequacy of control. This
year a record number of bee-
keepers registered with the
Queensland Department of
Agriculture almost 1300 ;
and of that number only a
small percentage would be
experienced enough to detect
A.F.B. in the early stages. Thus,
responsibility for detecting and
controlling the disease is thrown
back on the shoulders of the
department. Yet no routine
inspections are carried-out.
This state of affairs explains
the big Bundarra (N. S. Wales)
outbreak of a few years ago,
when hundreds of colonies
were burnt. It was caused by
one renegade bee-herder migrat-
ing diseased hives from the
infected areas in the south of
that State to the clean areas of
the north. Such men take
borders as just another stop for
petrol; worse, they’ll sign any
certificate presented to them.
If Queensland beekeepers are
adamant about keeping the bad
disease out, they'll need to
demand greater protection than
they have at present. A man
with a load Of bees can’t be
barred at the border-gates and
told to unload for. inspection.
Such control—though effective
—would entail too much hard-
ship on the bee-herds. Moving
bees is hard enough ordinarily,
involving as it does night-load-
ing and long-distance driving.
But some procedure near that
ideal must be brought into
being.
If a N. S. Wales man intends
moving over the border for an
expected flow, his hives should
be inspected before they go on
the truck. If an apiary inspector
from the Department of Agri-
culture can’t do the job because
of the expense of travelling,
or some such reason, then
authority to inspect and certify
should be given to certain
competent men in each area.
A migrator carrying such a
certificate of cleanliness with
him has a right of entry. At
present, certificate and all,
almost every bee-herd bumping
over the border-ramps carries
with him, as far as the local
man is concerned, a question-
mark.
Spraying Maize
“R.”: Weeds have always
been a headache to maize-
growers on the Atherton
Tableland (N.Q.). The rich,
deep red soil and the heavy
rainfall make them grow like
hairs on a cat’s back.
The Atherton Tableland
Marketing Board has
given a valuable lead by
encouraging the first demon-
stration of aerial spraying to
control weeds in the maize-
fields.
The corn-belt around Ather-
ton, Tolga, Kairi, and out
through Yungaburra is particu-
larly suited for aerial spraying.
The land is fairly flat and there
is ample room to manoeuvre a
light aircraft.
A 12-acre paddock close to
Kairi was selected for the
demonstration. The hormone-
-weedicide was applied at the
rate of 2|gals. to the acre. On
an adjoining field the rate was
increased, to form a compari-
son.
Next year, the board hopes
to have at least 6000 acres
sprayed from the air.
Maize must be sprayed at
the right time. It can’t be
sprayed when the plant is in
the self-pollination stage.
In the demonstration just
carried-out, the fine spray pene-
trated through the thick cover
of the tall maize and got right
down to the weeds. This is
most essential if a solid “kill”
is to be obtained.
The spray was also applied
to heavy stands of wild hops
growing around the headlands.
This weed is fast becoming a
real pest in the corn-drops on
the Tableland. It slows-down
harvesting, and, if it is thick
enough, it is almost impossible
to work the mechanical
harvester in it.
So far the results of the
spraying have been more than
promising. If the crop is
sprayed early enough, most of
the weed trouble will have
been solved. This will mean a
big saving to the growers in
this area of the State.
Siberian Millet
“Magnoon”: It is surprising
that this crop, alias white
panicum, alias giant setaria
and a few other names, is not
more popular. To my mind
it is the king of summer
annual fodder - crops. It is
more palatable than Sudan or
sweet-Sudan at any stage, non-
poisonous, produces a large
bulk of feed, and recovers
quickly after grazing.
My cows go down in pro-
duction when I change them
from the Siberian to Sudan,
and go up when they go back
to it. It is in no hurry
to go to head, and seems just
as good feed when in head.
The seed I planted this year-
contained a few grains of
French and Japanese millet,
and both of these went to head
weeks before the Sib. The
cows dodged them till the Sib.
was eaten almost into the
ground.
Its main fault is tricky ger-
mination. It needs well-
worked ground and a bit of
luck with the weather. Even
then the first strike may be
disappointing, but usually the
rest comes up over the next
couple of weeks. This habit
gives the weeds a flying start,
but it will catch up later.
It will not grow in winter,
but it carries on into the
autumn better than its com-
petitors. Sown early, jt is
less sensitive to late frosts than
Sudan. And, as I said before,
the cows love it. All winter
they will remember it and hang
round the gate of the paddock
where it has been.
The seed is cheap, so cheap
that it is not an attractive pro-
position at the moment as a
grain-crop, though I believe it
yields well, even after feeding-
off once or twice. I find 10-
121 b. per acre gives a good
stand.
Airborne Dirt
“Macon”: Thorough servic-
ing of the tractor’s aircleaner,
including changing the oil,
cleaning the whole assembly,
replacing cracked or otherwise
leaking hoses or pipes, and
tightening all clamps, can add
considerably to engine-life.
A tractor with a 4in. bore
and sin. stroke, turning at 1450
r.p.m., sucks-in just over 100
cu. ft. of air per minute. In
dusty conditions the cleaner is
required to remove 3481 b. of
dirt every 1000 hours.
If only 3 per cent, of this
enters the engine, more than
101 b. of wear-causing material
is dumped into the carburettor
every 1000 hours.


Women’s Letter
SYDNEY
The Easter meeting at Randwick
definitely established that in clothes we
have a New Look once more —well, not
exactly a new look, more like an Old
Look Made-over. It’s the ’2o’s again:
the pin-point heels, the pointed toes, the
close-fitting hats, the shapeless dresses
which are so hard to make because one
must get just the right degree of shape-
lessness, the dangling beads, the colored
stockings which are now colored on
purpose and not because we don’t know
any better.
☆ ft ft
The mode is not beautiful. No sil-
houette is beautiful which is not in
harmony with the human figure. But
it is fun, a change, something that has
shaken us out of our comfortable fitted
suits and little white hats, and con-
sequently out of our fashion-apathy,
but somehow one cannot help wishing
that M. Yves St. Laurent and his col-
leagues had been able to dream-up
something more original, or at least
copied from the more remote past. To
go back to the fashions of one’s girl-
hood is boring at best and dangerous
at worst, reminding one of the adage,
“The girl of today is as good as the
girl of yesterday, provided it’s not the
same girl.”
ft ft ft
At any rate, among those who wore
the “sack” and allied lines on St. Leger
Day were some very elegant dressers —
Mrs. Hunter Hordern, Mrs. Bill Murrell,
Mrs. Michael Read (very smart in
cyclamen), Mrs. Alan Copeland and Miss
Rosemary Arnott. Mrs. Bob Mclnerney
chose the trapeze-line, which swings
from narrow shoulder-line to a full hem
and has more allure than the “sack,”
which of its nature tapers-in at the hem.
Another wearer of the trapeze-line was
Mrs. Ronald Nott (Melbourne).
ft it ft
One of the pleasantest parties of the
week was the cocktail-party given by
Captain J. C. Littler and the officers of
H.M.C.S. Ontario, here on her fifth visit.
Fresh breezes blew the heat of the day
away, and there was bright chatter among
the large gathering of Canadians and
their many-Sydney friends. Noted there:
Sir Richard and Lady Boyer, Dr. and
Mrs. Victor Coppleson, Mr. and Mrs.
Fred Daniell, Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Souter (she was Miss Margaret Hughes,
a former “Miss Australia”). Mrs. Roy
McKerihan, who came with her daughter
Del.
Mrs. S. H. Roberts, who was present
at this party, had just come from the
University (Manning House), where the
wedding-reception for her daughter
Liska is to be held in June. Liska is
engaged to Vincent Heinrich, of Moree,
and the wedding is to be at St. Canice’s,
Elizabeth Bay.
Mary Cullen, of Randwick, plays the
leading role of Margot in the Sydney
Light Opera Company’s presentation of
“The Desert Song,” which opens at the
Mosman Town Hall on April 24,
followed by performances on 29th, 30th
and May 1. The show is presented under
the auspices of the All Saints’ Hospital
Women’s Auxiliary. Since its inception
the company has raised over £1250 for
this hospital.
Entertaining Sir Stanton and Lady
Hicks to dinner at Romano’s during the
week were Mr. and Mrs. P. A. Yeomans,
whose other guests were Mr. and Mrs.
G. B. S. Falkiner and Mr. and Mrs. Tom
Hood, of Orange. Sir Stanton and Lady
Hicks are off on their world flight and
will meet-up with the Yeomans in Italy
later in the year. In Mr. and Mrs.
Yeomans’s party for their trip abroad,
which starts on April 18, will be 11-year-
old son Ken, Mrs. John Maltman (who
is Mrs. Yeomans’s niece), and Mr. John
Maltman. The tour, which is to cover
about six months, will take-in England,
Ireland, Scotland and the Continent,
with special emphasis on agricultural
developments abroad.
ft ft ft
Mr. Justice Maguire is to receive the 20
debs, who are to make their curtsy at the
Dominican Ball at the Trocadero on
April 21. They are all ex-students of
various Dominican convents throughout
N.S.W., the ball being in aid of the
Dominican Bursary. The matron-of-
honor will be Mrs. W. T. Prentice.
Overheard ; “Jane is such a cat. She
said she’d ‘loved my new sack’ and she
knows very well it’s not supposed to be
a sack!”
* ☆ ft
One thing that is very striking about
the trend of modern thought is the
changing attitude towards subnormal
children, and nowhere is this more
apparent than in the work of that wonder-
ful home for such children, the Lorna
Hodgkinson Sunshine Home at Gore
Hill. *
For over 30 years this Home has been
caring for children whose mental age is
very low —that is, with an I.Q. of 40 or
less, or equivalent to that of children
about the age of six years. The 120
“children” in residence range in age from
four years to 61, for the Lorna Hodgkin-
son Sunshine Home continues to care for
its “children” so long as they need help,
even though some of them may have out-
lived all their other friends, their parents
and guardians. This has relieved the
mind of many an anguished parent,
whose thought “What will happen to
him (or her) when I am gone?” has
often brought great sorrow.
When Dr. Hodgkinson undertook her
great work in 1923 the emphasis was on
minding those left in the care of the
home, keeping them clothed and healthy;
but over the past five years it fias been
found that, given the right conditions,
they can be educated to some degree,
their personalities developed and their
enjoyment of life increased a hundred-
fold.
All those who have to do with the care
of subnormal children agree that on the
whole they have happy, affectionate
natures and are particularly responsive
to music and rhythm.
Research in Australia on the educa-
tion of the subnormal child is at present
centred in Brisbane, where Professor
Schonell, Professor of Education at
Brisbane University, is the moving spirit,
and teachers are being trained at the
Bowen Centre Home, Brisbane, where
Mrs. M. McConnell is in charge. One
of the teachers from this centre is at
present on the staff of the Sunshine
Home, and an ultimate aim of the home
is to be able to establish a similar
training-and-research centre in Sydney.
‘Sending a child to the Sunshine Home
is just like sending a normal child to
boarding-school. They have their outings
on Sundays with their parents, the
holidays at home if it is desired, their
trips to the circus, their films (Mickey
Mouse is very popular), their swimming
excursions and their parties, as well as
lessons in normal 9chool-hours by the
teachers at the home, and one, for the
rather more advanced children, supplied
by the Department of Education.
An outing that is particularly looked
forward to is the Christmas-party given
by the Chief Petty Officers’ Mess at
Balmoral Naval Depot, where about 30


of the children are entertained with the
c.p.o.s’ own children.
The home has a large waiting-list, and,
with the aim of increasing its accommo-
dation, is making its first public appeal for
money. Fifteen per cent, of the children
are completely maintained by the home
(it costs approximately £1 per day for
each child); the others are paid for
according to their parents’ or guardians’
means.
The directors of the home are eight
business and professional men (Dr.
Hodgkinson died in 1951), and they also
hope, with increased funds, to be able to
train teachers, to investigate means of
educating the subnormal, to help and
direct parents and eventually to be able
to establish in N.S.W. a training-centre
similar to that in Brisbane. In this work
they are not competing with anyone else,
but are striving, with other members of
the N.S.W. Council for Subnormal
Children, to make a brighter world for
these little ones and their families.
MELBOURNE
Mrs. Mark Clements, president of the
American Women’s Auxiliary to the
Royal Children’s Hospital, received 60
members at a luncheon held at Morris
House. Two American Fulbright
exchange-scholars, Gertrude Stoddard,
of Massachusetts, and Helen O’Brien, of
Vermont, .were special guests. One of
the auxiliary vice-presidents, Mrs, I. G.
Mason, was presented with the usual
farewell - spoon during the business-
meeting which followed the luncheon.
On May 15 she and her children leave
for Beirut. They will sail on the Roma,
disembarking at Rome, where Mr.
Mason will join them—he is a former
T.A.A. pilot who is going to Middle
East Airlines. Mrs. Clements also wel-
comed four new members to the
auxiliary: Mrs. Roy Michaelis, Mrs. G.
Gay, Mrs. C.' Muth and Mrs. R.
Tennyson.
# V V
The Victorian branch of the Royal
Empire Society is the first in Australia
to provide accommodation for visiting
members. The branch has bought
and furnished a villa next to its head-
quarters in Queen’s Road for inter-
state and overseas members. Cost of
redecorating and furnishing was £9OOO,
and there are a suite, three double rooms
and several single rooms. The rooms
in the front of the house look out on
Albert Park, while the back rooms have
a view of a terrace and large gardens.
All furnishings are in pastel tonings,
and there’s running water, easy-chairs
and a writing-desk in each room. Guests
ma Y also take advantage of the
reception-rooms in the headquarters
building or in the lounge in the villa.
9 ne room in the villa will be turned
into a library. Mrs. R. Lee, the house-
keeper, will provide breakfast for guests.
All other meals may be obtained at
we society’s headquarters.
Councillor and Mrs. Bernard Evans
threw their house wide open and turned
on the hospitality for the young guests
invited by their daughter, Margot, and
her cousin, John Swanell, to a dance.
Margot’s lovely full-length gown of
cornflower-blue silk-taffeta was high-
lighted by a wide sash and bustle-bow
of rose-pink satin. Among the dancers
were Zara Simpson, whose white cotton
bouffant frock was patterned in clusters
of violets; Carol Cottman, her choice a
short, full, white cotton frock splashed
with rgd leaves; Gail Seyforth, whose
white frock was patterned in mauve
Scotch-thistles ; Gillian Lang, who had
pink roses clustered on the bodice of
her white taffeta frock; and Carol Silk,
who chose a short, full frock of rose-
beige silk-organza.
Back once again is popular musical-
comedy star Evie Hayes, whose hair is
no longer brunette, but a soft pink t
blonde, and very becoming, too. Meet-
ing Evie at a cocktail-party, one noticed
that with her smart black French-crepe
frock and a helmet-hat of shaded pink
flowers she wore “shocking-pink” stock-
ings. Colored stockings are the rage
in America, and Evie also has them in
navy and green. She’s doing a show
on TV and will be in this city until
April 19, when she goes to Sydney to
do a. similar session. TV-work is not
new to Evie; she has appeared in many
shows in New York. After finishing her
Sydney commitment Evie will go to
Surfers’ Paradise for a holiday with her
friends, Mr. and Mrs. Bill Graves.
Mrs. W. K. Burnside, president of
the Almoners’ Auxiliary of the Royal
Melbourne Hospital, welcomed more
than 200 guests at a card-afternoon held
at the Nurses’ Memorial Centre, in St.
Kilda Road. By it Mrs. Burnside and
her committee hope to have raised £4OO
to help maintain the ambulance they
bought for the hospital three years ago.
Committee-members present included
Lady Coates, Lady Warner, Lady Teas-
dale, Mrs. S. Kroussos, Mrs. S. Brunning
and Mrs. G. Shepherd. Lady Teasdale
baked all the cakes for afternoon-tea;
other members provided sandwiches and
asparagus-rolls.
☆ ☆ ft
The National Theatre Costume Ball,
which has become an annual event to
raise money for the National Theatre,
will be held at the Palais de Danse, St.
Kilda, on June 26. Lady Knox is presn
dent of the organising-committee, and
she will be assisted by vice-presidents
Lady Angliss, Lady Warner and Mrs.
A. T. Smithers. Mrs. Bernard Evans
is hon. secretary, and ticket-secretaries
are Mrs. J. Woodruff (XW 1886) and
Mrs. E. Tilley,(Fß 3045).
# #
The Mayoress of Preston (Mrs. C.
Kirby) and members of the Preston
Mayoress’s Guild will hold a dance in
Preston’s city hall on April 22 to assist
the Anti-. Cancer Campaign. The func-
tion will be under the patronage of Lady
Brooks. Kay Neilson (who was “Miss
Victoria”) will attend. Tickets, which
are only 12s. 6d. each, may be obtained
from. Mrs. I. Titkin (JM 1609).
CANBERRA
Sports-day at the Royal Military
College, Duntroon —held this year in the
autumn instead of spring—attracted
many spectators, who saw first-class
athletics in brilliant sunshine. The
Commandant R.M.C., Major-General
J. G. N. Wilton, and Mrs. Wilton were
there, and entertained guests to afternoon-
tea. The Challenge Trophy, a silver
boomerang presented by the officers’
mess, was won by Cpl. J. Gilroy.
Climax of the day was the sports-ball
given by the officers for staff-cadets and
their guests. Massed green fernery and
colored fairy-lights decorated the foyer
of Anzac Hall, where host and hostess
Lieut.-Colonel D. Daunt and his wife
received the guests. Mrs. Daunt’s full-
length sage-green gown was of Japanese
silk patterned in silver and white. Major-
General Wilton and Mrs. Wilton were
present; her attractive gown in deep-
green taffeta featured a floor-length
drape in paler green with a matching rose
at the bodice. Mrs. Frank Hassett wore
bronze taffeta. Also noted Mrs. John
Stubbs, who will soon leave Duntroon
to join her husband, Lieut.-Colonel
Stubbs, in Melbourne.
Miss Helen Ball’s lovely bouffant frock
in white tulle trimmed with sage-green
satin was among many pretty frocks
worn by the youthful guests; Miss
Noeline Willson, of Sydney*, also wore
white, in frothy organdie ; Miss Anne
Chappie, of Adelaide, wore blue satin
shoes with her short white taffeta frock.
Miss Diana Steege looked attractive in
champagne satin, and Miss Gail
Tregear’s glamorous ballerina in gold
lamd was worn with a gold-and-white
embroidered stole.


PRESSURE
By J. P. CARROLL
k ND so we now under-
J\ stand that the prin-
JL JL ciple of Pressure vary-
ing inversely to
Volume is a fundamental one
when considering both the
passage of steam in a loco-
motive and the action of com-
pressed air within its braking-
system.”
The Sunday-morning Insti-
tute class-instructor rounded-
off, and dismissed his loco.-
scholars, who, all but one, were
content with the soundness of
the theory.
It wasn’t that Bricky wanted
to dispute the instructor’s teach-
ings. Bricky had no use for
theories at all. He wanted a
practical illustration. So he
made his way down to
Doolan’s to seek counsel of his
mate, Crusty.
The affinity between Bricky
and Crusty had a practical and
solid base, and dated from the
first day Bricky was booked to
fire for his mate. At the end of
that trip Crusty was told that
his personality resembled
Bricky’s dog, which sat on its
tail and growled all day,
Crusty replying that if ever
Bricky were hung for being a
fireman it would be the hanging
of an innocent man.
Introductions thus being
over, Crusty had assumed the
responsibility of training
Bricky in enginemanship and
this, of course, took the same
form of practical simplicity.
So wjien, on their second day
together, Crusty made it clear
that six shovels of coal was
sufficient at the one firing he
emphasised the point by inter-
cepting Bricky’s attempted
seventh with his boot. Despite
Bricky’s reaction in converting
the shovel into a waddy and
bringing it down on Crusty’s
boot, which # housed a tender
bunion, the verbal explosion
that followed was no less a
dissertation on the theory of
combustion and an analysis of
the formula: CO2.
Again, when they were being
annoyed by a too-anxious
driver on a banker-engine a
convenient hole in the cab foot-
plate over the rail and the inser-
tion of Crusty’s oil-can gave
Bricky an example of the
Theory of Lubrication whereby
two surfaces can be separated
by oil to reduce Friction, while
the violent slipping of the
banker’s wheels also indicated
that the Potential of Horse-
power is governed by Rail-
adhesion in producing Tractive
Effort.
Bricky had tried to outwit
Crusty during an air-brake
compressor-failure. Every time
Crusty got the donkey going
Bricky stopped it at the starting-
valve. After swinging on the
handbrake on down-grades and
keeping the fire up to Crusty’s
boring on banks, Bricky heard
Crusty lecture not only on the
futility of Youth versus Experi-
ence but on low speed when
running a train without an air-
brake causing Loss of
Momentum at the foot of a
bank: thus by the sweat of
Bricky’s brow it was made
clear that Momentum created
a valuable saving in Fuel-costs,
the economy being calculated in
the formula: Mass multiplied
by Speed.
Since Bricky had received
notice to .sit for his driver’s
ticket the matter of his train-
ing had become more complex.
In all its thoroughness Crusty’s
coaching didn’t have the polish
required by modern examiners,
so Bricky had to attend the
Sunday-morning Railway Insti-
tute classes.
But Bricky regarded academic
tuition only as supplementary
to the word of his mate. Thus
he knocked thrice and twice,
then five times, on the back
door of Mr. Doolan’s.
"pOR, this being the Sabbath,
-*• and Mr. Doolan having a
traditional nature stronger than
subservience to the Licensing
Act, those series of door-
knocks were necessary to
enable Bricky to shoulder his
way through the mob where the
owner of a large fist was
thumping the bar.
“He said reduce the volume
and you raise the pressure,”
Bricky told the weatherbeaten
face behind the big frothy pot.
Like the jib of a giant crane,
the large arm slowly lowered
the empty pot, then rose again
bearing a red handkerchief to
wipe a greyish-black moustache.
And while considering Bricky’s
problem Crusty thumped the
bar again, then held up two
fingers to include a pot for
Bricky.
“And you can’t work it out?”
Crusty commented but kept his
gaze firmly on Mr. Doolan lest
profit and not quantity moti-
vated the manipulation of the
beer-tap.
“Wouldn’t be wasting good
drinking-time if I did,” Bricky
said.
“Well, have you ever used a
bike-pump?”
“Yair.”
“Well, what happens when
you push the plunger down?
It reduces the volume between
the plunger-leather and the
bottom of the pump-casing,
doesn’t it? And it makes the
air that was in the casing
compress, doesn’t it? So it
means reduce the volume and
you raise the pressure, doesn’t
it?”
“How?”
Crusty pursed his lips. His
face grew red and his eyes
regarded his mate with an
impatient sternness.
“How! Y’ bloody pumpkin-
headed idiot . . . How? I
bloody well told you, didn’t I?,
Now I’ll tell you again!”
As Crusty was now drinking
behind schedule, he made a
concerted effort to dispose of
the problem. He drove home
each progressive point thump-
ing the bar. And as each thump
brought Mr. Doolan hurrying
to a false alarm, that good host
joined with Crusty in glaring
hopefully at Bricky for a sign
that the intruding business had
been evicted.
But Bricky just sat on his
stool in an atmosphere of
silent and innocent blankness.
Crusty’s bushy eyebrows rose
and his teeth clamped hard on
the stem of his pipe. He called
on Mr. Doolan twice to
replenish the pot of which he
now felt greater need. Then,
returning again to Bricky, he
spoke with a slow and peculiar
quietness.
“It takes a horse and a
“That's better than the Jones's!”


aboriginal name instead of
New Pipeclay.
John Tierney died in Mudgee
Hospital in November, 1891,
going out to what seems to
have been some sort of ’flu
visitation, against which, with
his one lung, he hadn’t a
chance.
On the human side Henry
once had warmly affectionate
memories of him. In the
original version of the poem
“Eurunderee,” as it appeared
in the old Brisbane “Boomer-
ang” (where Henry held down
a staff job for about six
months, with A. G. Stephens a
fellow-member of the staff),
there was a stanza which, with
a couple off others, was not in-
cluded in the collected edition
of Henry’s poems. It went
like this:
7 here was one who first taught me
my future to rule
In the dear old bark humpy wherer
I went to school,
And the kind-hearted master I’ll
never forget,
Nor the brogue of old Erin that
clings to me yet —
But his hair must be frosty and
wrinkled his brow
If he teaches the school at
Eurunderee now. x
■yOU wonder, naturally, why
anything as simply gentle
as that should have gone out,
and who outed it, and perhaps
the answer could have some
meaning for us here, and no
doubt would be useful to any
searching Henry biographer.
I have not myself worked-out
the exact length of time that
Henry was a pupil at the Old
Bark School, but his total
schooling spread over only a
few years, was spasmodic at
that (a few months here, a few
there), for some of the time he
would be working with his
father, and for some of the
time, too, he was partly deaf.
And of the several teachers he
had in that time, the others as
well as Tierney serve their
scapegoat turn (in the original
“Fragment” version in the
Mitchell Library).
Thus, of one of them: “I told
him that my name was Henery
Lawson, and they say he
spelled it that way. His name
was Hanks.”
Of another, Curtis, he
makes no direct unfavorable
comment, but he does mention
that after going to Curtis’s
school he used to go back to
Tierney at night to catch up
on his grammar ; adding the
afterthought you might expect,
that Tierney had meanwhile
improved in that respect —the
improvement, you might note,
having miraculously come
about in a matter of months.
And again, of a couple of
others (at the Catholic school
in Mudgee): “Several masters
had resigned, but the present
one, Mr. Kevan, was a strong
man and kept the young devils
well in hand.... His successor,
a better scholar, a younger and
cleverer man (who nevertheless
said things like ‘Don’t do that
no more’)....”
Finally, to leap over those
old days, and come down to
when Henry was unsuccessfully
trying to pass exams at Sydney
University: “I couldn’t hear
the dictation, so I was taken
into another room by an old
man without teeth who dictated
in Irish.”
YI7ELL, there you have
* ’ Henry’s teachers, accord-
ing to Henry—scapegoats all.
Not that it matters very
much what they were, either
way, except for purposes vital
to biography. We still have
the living entity of Henry and
his work (taken together). I
don’t know that we yet have
any counterpart; so, for the
time being, there is good reason
to be grateful for the further
additions to that Henry in
Marjorie Pizer’s admirable
little first-edition Lawson,
The Men Who Made Australia.
There is a strongly clear Henry
stalking through it.
donkey to make a mule.”
Crusty paused, then roared,
‘But I’d like to know what it
was that sired a mule to put a
stupid brainless b like
you on the earth. Change
volume and you change
pressure! Change volume and
you change pressure! Change
volume” Crusty roared the
chant and waved the empty pot
within an inch of Bricky’s
nose.
“yOW! ” The alarm went
I round the bar, and it meant
an instant suspension of
Bricky’s coaching. The police
had arrived.
Mr. Doolan’s patrons knew
what to do. A well-practised
drill caused, them to move with
unity and speed to a disused
pantry camouflaged by a door
which a sympathetic carpenter
had contrived to look like a
wall-panel.
Though swift the departure
of the teacher, the pupil tarried
with his problem. And when
Bricky saw it was time to follow
the field the camouflaged
pantry-door was closing.
“Hey, let me" in!” Bricky
hissed, and shoved his foot in
the door-opening.
“Can’t. We’re full-up,” was
the answer, followed by the dis-
lodging of Bricky's boot and
the shooting-home of the bolt.
Already Bricky could hear
official voices; something
about the Lodgers’ Book. In
a moment, he knew from
experience, there would be the
inspection of the bar-room.
There was no escape, for Mr.
Doolan made one concession to
licensing - requirements and
kept his front-door locked on
Sundays. The back-door was
well covered by the Johns.
In desperation Bricky sur-
veyed the trap. Then he spied
an arrangement which Mr.
Doolan had erected to promote
tidiness in the bar. It was
simply a wool-sack nailed to
the wall at two corners, the idea
being that only the most cock-
eyed or inebriated could fail
to dispose, in such a sizeable
bag, of those racing-form
sheets, place-cards, tobacco-
Packets, etc., that litter the
floors of less dainty pubs.
It was certainly not dignified
fo relegate oneself to the level
°f garbage, but with Bricky,
expediency beat dignity every
hone, so into the bag he went,
and when the inspection-party
arrived he was efficiently con-
cealed ev en to having burrowed
rmself down to the bottom of
” e bag’s contents.
Mr Doolan, being a tradi-
ronalist, was sensible of the
courtesies due to official
■ °rs- While Sergeant
Murphy and his subordinate
made dutiful search, Mr.
Doolan unobtrusively placed a
freshly-drawn jug of beer and
two glasses on the bar. Then,
requesting to be excused for a
moment, he discreetly with-
drew.
Likewise Sergeant Murphy
was not insensible of such a
tribute to his position, especi-
ally when tact like Mr. Doolan’s
invalidated official barriers to
acceptance. The good sergeant,
removing his cap and indicating
to his junior that courtesy
should not be ignored, relaxed,
in a manner which had become
habitual.
■JV/fR. DOOLAN’S patrons
were not such as expect
or appreciate refinements of
seating-accommodation in a
bar, and here Mr. Doolan had
shown delicate consideration
for Sergeant Murphy’s comfort.
For the sergeant’s obesity went
as far as was permitted in the
Force, and Mr. Doolan, not
even trying to reconcile the vast
area of the sergeant’s sitting-
equipment with the small area
of a bar-stool, always made
sure on Sunday mornings that
the litter-bag was fully charged
with crumpled newspapers.
Bricky knew only too well
that Sergeant Murphy was
grateful for the gesture; but
not only did Bricky acquire
practical experience of the full
weight of law, but he also
learned that the sergeant was
a conscientious officer, by no
means content that a pause in
the activity of a duty should
be spent in idleness.
In an instructive lecture to
his subordinate the sergeant
made it clear that policemen
should never be fooled by
Appearances. There were clues,
said the sergeant, that a contra-
vention of a section of the
Licensing Act had been com-
mitted ; there were numerous
still-glowing cigarette-butts on
the floor. Thus there was a
suspicion that persons unknown
were illegally on the premises.
But such persons were artful
in concealing themselves in the
most unlikely places.
Sergeant Murphy emphasised
his contention by raising him-
self slowly and laboriously, then
handing over his huge bulk to
gravitation to be reseated.
“However,” continued the
sergeant in a deliberate tone,
“such persons have also been
known to inflict upon them-
selves a punishment greater
than that eventuating from un-
obstructed prosecution.”
Once more the sergeant rose
and descended.
“Prosecution nevertheless
must fail through lack of visible
evidence, so we...,"
The rest of Sergeant
Murphy’s remarks are of little
consequence as Bricky did not
hear them.
the coast had been
' * cleared, Bricky was
revived by a couple of stiff
whiskies. Mr. Doolan’s patrons
made up for lost time. Bricky,
still feeling dizzy, had forgotten
the studies which had led him
to his misfortune, but Crusty’s
eyes bore a determined gleam,
“Now look here, you was in
the large volume of this here
bar-room,” Crusty said. “Then
you was in the small volume
of that there wool-bag. So”
Bricky interrupted with a
glorious, enlightened beam on
his face.
“Yeah! Yeah! I see it all
now.”
And that was how Bricky
learned Boyle’s Law of the
Inversion of Pressures in rela-
tion to Volumes.


the emphasis is about equally divided
between Donovan’s career and the
fortunes and love-lives of the Hegarty
family—there is no clear driving-force
in it. Largely because so much of the
dialogue is reported indirectly—we are
told that the Premier is witty andNthat
Donovan is ebullient, but we hardly see
them sparkling or boiling—the male
characters do not come very strongly
alive. And because, as so often in
Vance Palmer’s novels, all critical and
violent action takes place offstage —
whether it is the Premier quelling
Donovan with his “few sharp sentences”
(what were they?) or even the Italian
dynamiting the train —there is little
drama in the events.
The novel is sustained, though not
strongly, by shrewd pieces of political
thought; by a general impression that
Vance Palmer is working out a serious
piece of social analysis; by the con-
tinual expectation that something is
about to happen, even if in the end it
doesn’t; by crisp and clear pieces of
coastal scenery and adventure, like the
scene where two of the people are
nearly taken by a shark; and, chiefly,
by the firm and charming portraits of
the women.
To Habe and Habe Not
For the liver of the quiet, or what
the Americans call “the good,” life, an
autobiography like Hans Habe’s All
My Sins (Harrap; Australasian) is
a sublimational supplement; here,
vicariously, the virtuous can enjoy the
wild doings they have denied them-
selves.
Habe’s father was a Hungarian
Jew called Bekassy; he was press-chief
for Bela Kun in Hungary’s short
Communist regime of 1918. Imprisoned
under the Horthy regime, he escaped
when he left prison, with his family
and without passport, on a Danube
boat, to Vienna; began a financial
paper there, and during the inflation
became a newspaper-publisher in a
very big way, so that he came to repre-
sent high living and corruption, until
pamphleteers caught up with him with
suggestions of extortion; and when
inflation collapsed he found it prudent
not to return from a holiday he had
taken in Germany in 1926.
Young Bekassy grew up in a lap of
luxury, rendered towards the end of
his schooling rather prickly by the
notoriety of his name, for which reason
he changed it to Habe.
At Heidelberg he became a crack
duellist and won five duels before the
conductor of the club found, to his
horror, that Habe was a Jew. At
nineteen he began in journalism in
Vienna; his first big sensation was the
proved story that Hitler’s real name
was Schickelgruber. He had to go to
Brunau, Hitler’s birthplace, to get it,
and the story of how he was driven
out by a kindly barmaid’s fiance, with
four S.A. men in pursuit, makes
exciting reading.
This did not stop him, however,
being one of Starhemberg’s press-
chiefs. Then, after a spell at Geneva,
he became, at 23, “Europe’s youngest
chief editor,” of the Viennese paper
“Der Morgen” in 1934. He soon got
into trouble with the Fascist Govern-
ment, for protesting against the
elimination of lovers’ nooks in
Viennese cafes, and not taking the
party-line on Abyssinia; and moved
on to a correspondent’s job in Geneva.
With the opening of World War II
he joined the French Army, shared its
shame of defeat, made dangerous
escapes and next turned-up in America,
where his book “A Thousand Shall
Fall” made him a war-time hero and
an immense social success, so that he
returned to Europe, first as an adjunct
to American propaganda in Africa and
then, with Eisenhower’s victorious
armies, as head of an organisation of
authors which established newspapers
in German in German towns as the
Allies reoccupied them.
His experiences with women,
described in some detail, constitute
almost a second career. There are his
early affairs; his first wife, a childhood
playmate; his second wife, daughter of
an immensely rich industrialist (who
subsidised his first chief-editorship);
the beautiful Wanda, from whom he
was separated by the war; then none
less than the daughter of American
Joseph E. Davies, former Ambassador
to Moscow, author of “Mission to
Moscow,” and a multi-millionaire.
These he met and parted with
amicably; his downfall was a German
actress he had loved many years
before. Seeking her out again in
conquered Germany, he took her from
her doctor-fiance and married her.
Alas, when he thought it time to go,
she raged, and eventually ruined him
with lawsuits —from which he escaped
after long suffering, became a scenario-
writer in Hollywood, and there met
the last and best of all—Eloise . . .
Alas, that was in the German edition
of 1954; “a necessary postscript” to the
English translation, dated 1957, adds
that Eloise has left him. He is now
(or was at time of writing) residing at
St. Wolfgang-am-See with Licci, who,
to his intense joy, is also Hungarian-
born.
THE KELLY PAINTINGS
(After Sidney Nolan)
Asserted with a vigorous clear brush
Whose crudity remains appropriate
To that possessive myth,
The hero and his comrades adumbrate
A bold reaction from the scrabbly bush.
The trees are thin and the selectors'
shacks
Huddle for comfort on the painful earth,
While the long skyline gleams
With sunrise that illuminates no mirth
But only colors bent and toiling backs.
Against this, set the Kelly vision : how
One figure, square and black, may be
set up
Against a shifting ground.
However false, he stands against the trap,
The law, the landlord, so that even now
This image of a brutal Irishman
With lean and shifty face is glorified,
And facts are shadowed by
His armor of bravado and the tide
Which thrust his figure upwards and
began
A legend to be cherished by the heart
When drought came or the traps were on
the job.
And so, despite the man,
His image stirs these canvases, to throb
Deep in the mind where anger plays its
part.
VICTORIA.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE.
Besides Chaucer
In Medieval English Poetry, the Non-
Chaucerian Tradition (Faber) John
Speirs studies the carols, romances,
religious mystery-cycles, etc., in the
midst of which Chaucer is set like a
town in the heart of a countryside.
If it does no more, this book shows
what a marvel Chaucer was, with the
Renascence in his blood. Against these
popular romances of Arthurian knights,
reaching as in “Sir Gawayne and the
Grene Knight,” far back past
Christianity for such symbols as that
of the Green Man, the naturalism of
the Wife of Bath’s Prplogue, the Miller’s
Tale, even the Knight’s Tale, is as
Ibsen is to pantomime or musical-
comedy. Chaucer knew it, and knew
exactly what he was replacing: —
Hare faces were whyt as snow on
downe ;
Har rode was red, here eyn were
browne:
I sawe nevir non swyche!
That oon bare of gold a basyn,
That other a towayle, whyt and fyn,
Of selk that was good and
ryche....
This is not from Chaucer’s parody,
“Sir Topas,” which the company inter-
rupted and wouldn’t let him finish, but
from Thomas Chestre’s “Sir Launfal,
written around 1350.
And yet-, beautifully as he wrote the
story of the little boy with his throat
cut, Chaucer, in his few Frenchified
songs, never achieved the exquisite


humanity and lyrical perfection of “I
$i n a of a Maiden,” or excelled the
humor and dexterity of the carol
(almost a parody of the Mass) in which
the girl came to grief over meeting
j o ly Jankin in a Yule procession. And
Speirs is able to make a good case
for the old alliterative poets as
landscape-artists, and by no means
unobservant of humankind—there is a
delightful bit of detail when Gawain
is slomeryng in his chamber and hears
“a litel dyn at his dor”: —
And he heves up his hed out of the
clothes,
A corner of the cortyn he cast up a
lyttel,
And waytes warly thiderwarde quat
hit be myght.
Hit was the ladi, loflyest to beholde,
That drow the dor after hir ful
dernly and stylle,
And boged towarde the bed
Not that it proceeds from here like
a contemporary novel; “Gawain,” says
Speirs, “has to resist the lady while at
the same time not being discourteous to
her.” And if, in these circumstances, it
seems hardly worth the modern reader’s
while to learn enough medieval English
to make the whole poem come alive, it
is because, says Speirs, what made it
worth while and significant has faded
out of life —the Christian year and its
festivals:—
“Sir Gawayne and the Grene
Knight” is, of course, a Christian
poem. But it is Christian rather as
some of the medieval Christmas
carols are, as Christmas itself is;
Christian in harmony with pre-
Christian belief and ritual, a
Christian reinterpretation of these.
And he concludes his book with a
quotation from D. H. Lawrence on
the church year’s enrichment of life,
ending:—
Now you have a poor, blind, dis-
connected people with nothing but
politics and bank-holidays to satisfy
the eternal human need of living in
ritual adjustment to the cosmos in its
revolutions. ... .Vitally, the human
race is dying. It is like a great
uprooted tree, with its roots in the
air. We must plant ourselves again
in the universe.
Moomba Afterthoughts
If a nation’s culture and development
are judged by its books, as Sir Dallas
Brooks declared at the official opening
of the Australian Book Fair in the
lower Melbourne Town Hall, this
annual fair should be the most
Important part of the Moomba
festivities.
Certainly it is more important than
l r he much-publicised “Herald” Art
u " ow > which would be just as rewarding
if one rode quickly past its intermin-
able rows on a motor-scooter.
However, the Book Fair was pushed
into the last four days of the week’s
festivities; the flower-show preceding
it was not dismantled until the morning
when the fair was supposed to open,
with the result that it opened not at
11 a.m., as announced, but at nearly
2 p.m., by which time hundreds of
disgruntled visitors had been turned
away from the door.
From the beginning this lack of
organisation antagonised possible cus-
tomers. A friend with the money ready
in his hand spent an hour trying to find
someone to sell him a book from one
of the stalls; a book which sold-out
was not replaced by the publisher’s
representative concerned; recent publi-
cations were mixed haphazard with
some which had 1940 imprints.
Yet the number and quality of Aus-
tralian books on show has never been
so impressive, with the magnificent
A.N.A.R.E. publication and the new
“Australian Encyclopaedia” leading the
display. Dust-jackets were festooned
across walls in an effective decoration,
and aboriginal motifs were used on
tables and pillars.
However, since I last saw the Book
Fair in 1956 it has changed subtly in
character. It has become more like a
large, understaffed bookshop and less
like a happy meeting-place for Aus-
tralian authors and readers.
Nancy Cato.
CIVIL WAR HOUSE
With its contempt for all calamities
It must conceal its death here with these
vines,
This hedge. My feet upon its puritan path
Intrude and feel the round rebuff of
stones
That wait half in the dust. They say a
ghost,
A cavalier, still haunts the-drive I see
Through twigs and wintriness: the wind
attacks
A legion of leaves but only bares a tree.
Climbing the stairs, l find the portraits
hung
In the death of afternoon, that show
dissent,
With frowns held in their subtle prison of
frames:
Three hundred years seem now as thin as
paint
Yet are too deep. And so they frown at
me,
But from this frozen truce that’s come to
each;
And as I leave that hall and house, their
lives
Recede like corridors till out of reach.
ENGLAND.
R. A. SIMPSON.
Reviewed Briefly
The Anvil of Civilisation: Leonard
Cottrell (Faber). A popular account,
based on recent archaeological dis-
coveries, of the origin and develop-
ment of civilisation in the Mediter-
ranean—from the Nile Valley and
Mesopotamia to the Greeks. It is
readable and clearly organised and is
illustrated with photographs of
Sumerian seals, frescoes from the
palace of Knossos and the left leg of
Rameses 11.
* * * *
Edward Tennyson Reed: edited by
Shane Leslie (Heinemann). To those
who remember Reed only as a dim
figure from the past of “Punch,” this
book, an unfinished autobiography
with a selection of his caricatures, will
be as surprising as it is delightful.
Reed’s father was a naval designer, so
eminent that he could cheerfully ask
the Tsar Alexander 111 or Admiral
Togo to stay for the weekend; and the
caricaturist has set down these and
other celebrities in the liveliest little
word-portraits. He was distressed to
see the Tsar “storming and rating his
unhappy officers in true Russian
Imperial style while they sat rigid and
frozen with fear,” and took it out of
him by beating him at billiards —“If
I had been more than eleven I should
not have dared to commit such an
outrage.”
* * * *
Gervasutti’s Climbs: Guisto Gerva-
sutti (Hart-Davis). Originally published
in Italian in 1947, this is the auto-
biography of a man claimed to be
“perhaps the greatest mountaineer of
his generation.” He climbed the
Matterhorn solo in winter and, after
other great feats, fell to his death while
pioneering a new route on Mont Blanc
du Tacul. His book is a clear and like-
able account of his climbs, chiefly for
specialists in mountaineering literature.
* * * *
4.50 from Paddington: Agatha
Christie (Collins). A woman traveller
sees a man strangling a woman in a
passing train; she tells that old busy-
body, Miss Marples, who does the
journey herself and fixes the scene of
the crime, where the body would have
fallen out, at a sharp turn on the edge
of the grounds of Rutherford Hall. But
the beauty of the book is Lucy Eyeles-
barrow, 32, an Oxford graduate who
had gone into service because she saw
how much more valued and valuable
an efficient servant would be these
days than a mathematician. Lucy
takes a job so that she may spy for
Miss Marples in Rutherford Hall.


PULL IN ...
FILL UP with
IM ..-1 V. £*&»> TN.vw ' y. V'.i3£s *•!>>:? - ■
IP
ADVANCED
m
B
■
SUPER
c
SUPER
STANDARD
MORE P£Pf
AND
TOO
AND TODAY’S MOST MODERN MULTI-GRADE OIL
ENERGOL VISCO-STATIC
BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED, formerly The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited
S' 1 - /W.M: \ 1/sa
