

The Bulletin
"FLYING MATILDA”—page n
Wednesday, February 19, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"You'll come down all right; our worry is to get you up"


STORY WRITING &
FREELANCE JOURNALISM!
LEARN AT HOME
... and EARN in your SPARE TIME
There is a big demand for well-written
work. Read these brief extracts —open for
inspection on our files—from the letters
of STOTT-Students:—
“My acceptances in the ‘Border Morning Mail ’
earned me approximately £ 50.”
“My tally of 65 contributions is wit bad for
one 60 years old.”
“I consider your Literary Course the most
valuable thing 1 have ever invested in.”
“Some weeks I have had as many as five
acceptances in ‘The Bulletin.*”
“Since Lesson 6 I have had quite a steady
flow of cheques.”
“My writing is a fascinating hobby and brings
in quite acceptable cash.”
1 00 Kussell St., Melbourne; 119 Castlereatrh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21'Grenfell
St-, Adelaide; 264 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli
Ration, your Prospectus, and full particulars oi
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
A DDK ESS
AGE
(SB 458)
800 KHUN TER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney-
A service, for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—Action,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
ERASMUS BOOKSELLERS,
GJP.O. Box 2474, Sydney.
We specialise in antiquarian books on
philosophy, history, languages, oriental-
ism, occult subjects. Please give us
your name and address for our
circulars.
The Red Page
ANGRY YOUNG NOVELISTS
The Welfare State was not very
helpful for the creative arts, said Dr.
A. L. Rowse, the historian, a few yeans
ago. About the time that Dr. Rowse
was speaking a lecturer in English at
the University College of Swansea was
writing the last chapters of a novel
which has been acclaimed as the
“Wasteland” of the ’fifties and as the
book which is most acutely symbolical
of the new middle-class intellectuals
fostered by the Welfare State.
The novelist was Kingsley Amis and
his book the much-discussed Lucky
Jim. One wonders what Dr. Rowse
thinks of it —probably not very much,
for Amis’s “hero” is a poor figure
alongside the magnificent daring-all
Elizabethans who have captured Dr.
Rowse’s imagination. The Jim Dixon
of Amis’s book is a lecturer in medieval
history at a “red-brick” university
(that is, provincial). He is not very
good at his job; he feels no vocation
and might have sold bogus shares or
soap with as much enthusiasm. Jim’s
ineffectual eye is only on the main
chance. He is a product of the Welfare
State; he has been State-aided through
grammar-school and university; he has
no bold dreams, but aspires only to be
financially secure with a pension at the
end. Self-absorbed, he has skill only
in inviting trouble. He gets himself
into a scrape and into worse ones
when he tries to retrieve his position.
Almost magically it all comes right in
the end: Jim gets the money and the
girl.
Amis tells his story amusingly and
with a gusto that is rare today in
English fiction. Some good satirical
blows are aimed at the aridity and
phoniness of some corners of English
academic life. It is a measure of Amis’s
liveliness that “Lucky Jim” has gone
into eighteen editions and that the 35-
year-old author has been both loudly
praised and reviled.
Actually, as C. P. Snow has pointed
out, Lucky Jim is not lucky at all—
the title is almost certainly ironic.
“Lucky Jim will not accumulate enough
money to change his way of life,” wrote
Snow. “He is never going to accumu-
late enough money to change his way
of life. He is never going to starve, but
he cannot have a dramatic rise in the
world It is an unexpected result
of the Welfare State that it should
make the social pattern not less rigid
but much more so.”
It is this lack of luck (and reward
for enterprise) which is probably
responsible for the sour resentful note
in some of the younger English
novelists who have followed where
Amis leads —writers such as John
Wain, Thomas Hinde, Peter Towry
and John Braine. If you’re to get any-
where in the Welfare State you have
to be a trimmer—seems to be their
message. Everything is “simply a
question of money,” says the young
man on the make in John Braine’s
recently published Room at the Top.
Everything else is phony. Phoniness
is a key target with most of these
writers who can loosely be grouped as
a school because of a similarity of
viewpoint—or should I say lack of it?
Because the striking thing is that they
have no viewpoint. They are strictly
neutral. They are not committed or
engaged in any way.
Lucky Jim put it this way: “There
aren’t any good, brave causes left. If
the big bang does come, and we all get
killed-off, it won’t be in aid of the
old-fashioned, grand design. It’ll just
be for the Brave New Nothing-very-
much-thank-you.”
And Jim’s creator in a pamphlet
called Socialism and Intellectuals said
the same thing: “When we shop
around for an outlet there is nothing in
stock: no Spain, no Fascism, no mass-
unemployment.”
The hero in “Room, at the Top” is
an upper-class intellectual spiv—Lucky
Jim in reverse; the young man in
Thomas Hinde’s Happy as Lam thinks
it more honest to cadge his way
through life.
Such writing—and you could link
in with these novelists the playwright
John Osborne, whose Look Back in
Anger has for “hero” another sour
young man —such writing and such
self-absorption have made outspoken
enemies. Explorers of the souls of the
Welfare State products have been
called “literary Teddy Boys.” And
Somerset Maugham has had this to say
about the “new men”: —
They do not go to the university to
acquire culture but to get a job, and
when they have one, scamp it. Their
idea of a celebration is to go to a
public-house and drink six beers.
They are scum.
The note sounded by Kingsley Amis
and the others has been heard before—
notably in Le Rouge et Le Noir. It’s
no accident that there’s a revival of
interest in Stendhal currently in
England. Stendhal published his great
novel in 1830 and said it would not be
understood until 1870; it could be
claimed that full understanding may
only come in this brave new England
of the Welfare State.
And it has been heard before and
much earlier in the novels of Defoe, as
V. S. Pritchett pointed out in an
examination of Amis and his fellows
which he entitled “They Couldn’t Care
Less.” Defoe, he said, had the same
sour, acrimonious, dissenting, aggres-
sive, debunking approach. But Defoe
was the spokesman for a vital, emerging
middle-class that was imbued with
optimism. The intellectual middle-
class produced by the Welfare State is
pessimistic. In terms of income it is
not really a middle-class at all but an
intellectual proletariat.
It’s no comfort for the new intel-
lectuals that all of the middle-class are
in the same leaking tub. (A doctor in
the National Health Scheme —and most
have to be—earns about £llOO net.)
The middle-class is being annihilated
by heavy taxation. And yet. I feel, it
cannot be explained entirely by
materialism. Lucky Jim is not merely
unlucky because he is badly paid and
his prospects limited. He is unlucky
also because he does not aspire and
has no illusions. He is a victim of that
general malaise which has overtaken
the England of the Welfare State. He
has lost his zest for living.
“On the one hand, the material
welfare of most of us has never been
better.' On the other hand, the spiritual
and emotional life of the nation has
never been more desolate.” So wrote
the British psychiatrist and sociologist
Dr. Eustace Chesser towards the end of
last year. The young men are
confused and angry. In life as well as
(Continued on page 57)


There are few industries not served by DAVID BROWN products
DAVID
BROWN
and the
Jodrell Bank
Telescope
23**
'/i
Jfte Foundries Division of David Brown cast the bearing housings in which the 250’ diameter
paraboloid reflector is set and General Gear Division, Park Works, manufactured the final driving
gears which enable the 2,000-ton structure to be revolved with minute precision and control
around the circular track of 360' diameter.
The new radio telescope at the Jodrell Bank Experimental Station, Cheshire, is the largest and only
automatically steerable radio telescope in existence, reaching out into space a distance of 1,000 million light
years. One notable performance to date has been the tracking of the satellites Sputnik I and Sputnik II in their
orbits around the earth. The telescope in itself is a marvellous feat of construction and one in which
David Brown played an important role, for whenever the telescope revolves or changes its position, it moves
in or by means of components made within the David Brown organisation.
In the farming field David Brown also shows the way with a fine record of achievement and enterprise.
David Brown tractors are continually setting new standards of performance, power and economy, and thus
meet the needs of more farmers than any other tractor on the market The range includes
18 wheeled and crawler models from 12 to 50 h.p. and over 60 matched implements. You
name the job-—David Brown will do it.
fmnrciu
RimtHiiii
radiccn worm reducers
r URBINE GEAR UNITS
HELICAL SINGLE REDUCING OK INCREASING GEAR UNITS
HtUCAL DOUGH OK TRIPLE REDUCING GEAR UNtTS
FOILING MILL, MINI WINDING. TUBS MILL AND
HAULAGE GEAR DRIVES
IVt. KAILCAK AND
TRAMCAR AXLE UNITS
MARINE DRIVES
SURAL BEVEL UNITS
GUTQMCBILE AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLE GEARBOXES
RAT ENT ED WORM GEARS
GEARS Of ALL TYKES
RQLOIO GEAR RUMPS
COVENTRY GEARED MOTORi
KEIGHLEY STOCK SPUR GEARS
KRONUR GROUND HOBS AND GEAR GENERATING CUTTERS
PATENTED RLOATING REAMERS
• C.OVENTRy .SEAR’DIVISION
COVENTRY
STON
Marti h Division
FEITMAM
LONDON GFAfCDtVISION
lONOON
TOOL DiVISJON
MUDDERSHELD
THE DAVID BROWN GROUP OF COMPANIES
HARRISON, MeGHfcGOR « GUiJI
‘ > ’ ITO - -
• ICIGH tANCS
MACHINE’TOOL 6'lV-SfON
' : M'ANtMESTf R
LA ©ON DA ! O iyTS I O N
F£LTH/ M ,
RACficON DIVISION
.MUDO.E.RSPEU) .
JACKiON DIVISION
MANCHESTE*
mtgs e fixtures
gear jesting equip mem
HYDRAX PRODUCTION 6 EAR HOBBINQ MACHINE
VW AND HELICAL GtAR AND SPLINE HOBBINQ
MACHINES
GEAR WAVING MACH IN ti
RELIEVING LATHt
ALLOT AND CARBON tTCII CAVING*
AIRCRAFT VEIL CAVING*
AIRCRAFT QUALITY STEEL CASTING*
PRECISION CAVING*
TAUFUS tRONU CAVINGS
HEAVY DUTY GEARS
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL TRACTOR*
INDUSTRIAL AND MARINE ENGINE*
f ARMING IMPLEMENT S
ASTON MARTIN CAR*
LAQONDA CARS
DAVID BROWN (A/ASIA) PTY. LIMITED
Cnr. Derby and Wetherill Streets, Lidcombe, N.S.W.
Australian associate of the world-famous DAVID BROWN GROUP OF COMPANIIS
DB2O.PP


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Feb . 19, 1958
Vol. 79—No. 4071
The National Australian Newspaper
"'Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE POLITICAL YEAR
WITH, the arrival of rain in many
parts of the eastern States and an
impetus to woolbuying, Australia is
moving back to a better economic
mood as the political year opens.
Parliament will meet in Canberra
before the end of the month, and, after
a short adjournment, will meet on
March 8 to begin its year’s work—
and manoeuvre. But the way ahead is
not strewn with roses.
Though Commonwealth political
development has reached a point at
which the public seems to regard every-
thing connected with politics as stale
unless it is sensational, coming events
promise to hold considerable excite-
ment. Not only here, but in the United
Kingdom, Canada (where Mr. Diefen-
baker has decided to take his slender
majority to the country, after a sample
of his performance, in March) and in
the United States (where Congressional
elections are due at the end of the year)
there will be polls or chances of polls.
It will be a year of all-round change
both inside and outside the Iron
Curtain, and of a reorientation of
policies, the drift of which is already
evident.
The rotten state of French politics
and the lack of concern about defence
in West Germany are producing the
right trends from the Communist point
of view. Moscow looks forward eagerly
to a U.K. election and the return of the
soft-shelled Mr. Gaitskell, backed—
when it suits the latter—by Mr.
Aneurin Bevan.
The replacement of Chou En-lai
by one of the most militant of the
marshals as Chinese Foreign Minister
is a sign of the times. It is associated
with the vast purge which has been in
progress in that country and the
sudden retreat from the “liberalism”
which allowed the admission of
neutral-minded students of China like
Lord Lindsay of Birker, who has just
been turned-back from the border into
Hong Kong.
The Chinese leaders have recently
been in consultation in Moscow, where
Mao attended the celebrations of the
anniversary of the October Revolution.
He stayed there a long time. And it
is not without significance that while
Moscow has been diverting the world’s
eyes towards the Middle East through
a diarrhoea of fulminating Notes and
supplications to minor Powers and a
regular insistence on the threat by
Turkey to Syria, its real practical
operations have all the time been
concerned with the development of the
Asian-African bloc. It has worked
hard on the consolidation of the key
bastions of the pincer with which it
is hoped presently to crush South-east
Asia into a state of softness which will
allow it to be -masticated.
All its policies vitally and directly
affect Australia. Its stamping-grounds
are Egypt, radiating trouble through
North Africa to immobilise Western
strength in the Mediterranean. It is
building huge bases, it is reported, in
Albania. It is seeking to control
European communications with the
oil-areas and threaten India and
Burma and Malaya. It has strengthened
its forces in Korea, in blank defiance
of the armistice-agreement, to a point
at which the U.N. (or rather the U.S.)
authorities have begun to treat the
agreement as non-existent and to
introduce nuclear, weapons—if the
Chinese, who have raised an outraged
squeal, may be believed.
The sudden Japanese police-activity
among foreigners is scarcely due to
any European upsurge but to the
burrowings of North Korean and
Russian agents. There is no doubt but
that N. Viet-nam, the old French north
of Indo-China, is being strengthened
as a jumping-off base for the plans of
Mao outlined in 1953. These have
been fermenting ever since to produce
the Red liquor of war or revolution to
engulf the countries along the southern
fringe of the Indian Ocean in 1960 or
thereabouts, if there is not sufficient
political and military force to dam it
back.
Moscow has been concentrating on
subterranean operations in Indonesia,
Malaya and Indo-China obviously in a
conspiracy, unobtrusive, but probably
more closely organised locally than is
apparent on the surface.
The Commonwealth will undoubtedly
have major problems of defence and
foreign relations to face within the
next year or two.
This country is already within the
pattern of Russian-bloc Asian propa-
ganda which is doing its best to create
an illusion of U.K.-Australian military
agreement to impose a new colonialism
in the Malayan area and also to flout
the sacred rights of Australians, as
enunciated by Dr. Evatt and Mr.
Ward, to be defended by other people.
Already these activities have pro-
duced stirrings within the Labor party
in preparation for the coming session,
when opportunities for an offensive
will be presented through the debates
on the reorganisation of Defence
Ministries which Mr. Menzies has
promised as the result of the Morshead
Report.
International relations will also be
complicated by such incidents as the
decision of the Japanese to tender for
large contracts on the Snowy River
scheme; contracts which are likely to
revive the White Australia policy—
almost forgotten, as a main aspiration
of the Federal Opposition, which
would probably be ecstatic if the
tenderers had come from Comrade
Molotov’s realm of Outer Mongolia
instead of from Tokyo.
Against the ominous background
of foreign politics, complicated by the
possibility of changes in party-control
in the U.S.A. for a variety of causes
and in the U.K. presently through a
possible general election, also loom
the considerable local issues which
might send the Government to the
country earlier than otherwise.
The Governments of Commonwealth
and States are going to be faced in the
next few years with immense expendi-
tures on road-building and recondi-
tioning and on the making-over of
public transport; also the rationalising
of public and private transport, which
has already become a major issue in
Queensland, is a question which cannot*
long be left in abeyance.
In the largest capital-cities it is
beyond doubt that short-range public
transport is dying on its feet in spite
of palliatives. The point has been
reached in Sydney where taxi-cabs,
under some circumstances, can compete
in fares with trams and buses, building
the threshold of a situation which
must have implications for the Federal
Treasury before long. State bankruptcy
in any field eventually must fall on
Commonwealth taxpayers’ shoulders in
some form or another.
All these things, and more, including
the gradual decay of coastal shipping
and increasing costs of export due to
the machinations of a comparatively
small Communist-controlled waterside
body and other unions, present Mr.
Menzies with the material of a busy
year.
This will culminate in a general
election at some stage early or late,
following a swapping of lead-horses
due to changes in the shape and
personnel of the Ministry.
It seems that the earlier the Cabinet
is reconstructed and its plans consoli-
dated and a clear-cut policy and pro-
gramme made evident the better for
everybody.


AURORA AUSTRALIS


PLAIN ENGLISH
Security, Is It?
About the last word in absurdity in the
conduct of the United Nations is the
announcement that, “following the
principle of alphabetical rotation,” Mr.
Arkady A. Sobolev, of the U.S.S.R., is
President of the Security Council for the
month of February.
The Security Council is the heart of
U.N., and the idea that at any time it
can be presided over by a representative
of the one country in the world which
is threatening security (the one which
has broken every agreement with the
U.N. and which has been behind the
flagrant flouting of the armistice in
Korea) is something to raise the laughter
of the gods—or of devils.
Almost every question now before the
U.N. concerns troubles between the
outside world and Russia, or deals with
questions which have developed into
danger-questions by reason of Soviet
machinations. Yet the world is paying
for an organisation fin which the
assistant Secretary - General in charge
of the Department of Security
Council Affairs is Comrade liya
S. Chernyshev (representative of the
U.S.S.R.), and the chairman of the
Security Council, the most vital operative
body of U.N. in crisis, is appointed
because of alphabetical succession!
These two gentlemen, Comrades
Sobolev and Chernyshev, would not be
Communists if they played the game.
Their very creed enjoins them to forward
the aims of Communism, which include
world-conquest and the destruction of all
non-Communist systems as the only
means of securing permanent peace.
Yet they are in a position to gain
confidential information about those
their masters wish to destroy and to
influence not only trends inside the U.N.
but also world propaganda. Australia’s
position is peculiarly anomalous. Since
the Petrov commission there has been no
Soviet Union representation here, and
any that was re-established would almost
certainly be subject to the closest
possible security precautions. Yet Aus-
tralia, like other Western countries, is
prepared to find part of the salaries of
two Russian agents in bodies concerned
with the policing of world behavior, two
gentlemen who represent the murderers
of Hungary and the plotters who are
bent on cutting-off our oil-supplies and
destroying our way of life, and who
would not be representatives of the
U.S.S.R. if they were not actively
engaged in promoting those objectives.
The Secretary-General, Mr. Hammar-
skjoeld, has a finger in every pie that
comes along, and seems now to consider
himself the Solomon of every situation. He
has passed an opinion on procedures for
the summit conference between the great
Powers in his usual gobbledegook: “If
the package approach is applied to the
question of how to handle the problem
negotiation-wise I think it is a dangerous
one, and I think we are right to assume
that by breaking it up it might be easier
to get somewhere”; but it appears that
“breaking it up tactically in that way
does not mean that one dissociates the
various elements in the picture.... you
can have a package objective, a package
target, in mind, and yet negotiate bit by
bit.” A prize of two tons of U.N. propa-
ganda—easily available for the asking,
and as clear and platitudinous when it is
unravelled—is offered for the shortest
rendering of this masterpiece of jargon
in plain English.
Loan Council Meeting
The special Loan Council meeting
didn’t give the Premiers all they had
asked for, but no Loan Council meeting
has ever done that —or is likely to. If
such a thing ever did happen the Premiers
would probably feel they had fallen down
on their job by not asking enough.
N. S. Wales Premier Cahill brought
along a bill for £12.7 million, pleading
drought, unemployment and housing
shortage. His colleagues spoke in similar
strain. Cahill also asked for an easing of
the Government’s credit policy to aid
private industry. Since an interest in
the troubles of private industry has never
been an outstanding characteristic of Mr.
Cahill it can only be assumed that he
had been reading the Sydney “Herald.”
That paper was duly grateful and gave
him high marks for his conduct at the
meeting.
Menzies-Fadden told the Premiers they
could have £5 million between them as a
special grant and that their local-govern-
ment authorities could go on the loan-
market for a further £3 million for works.
The special grant included £1 million for
drought-relief, to be split equally between
N. S. Wales and Queensland. The remain-
ing £4 million was allocated: N. S. Wales,
£1,489,000; Victoria, £1,061,000;
Queensland, £625,000; South Australia,
£368,000 ; Westralia, £315,000 ; Tasmania,
£142,000. The allocation of the local-
government loan authorisation was
N. S. Wales, £1,083,000; Victoria,
£603,000; Queensland, £663,000; S.A.,
£156,000; W.A., £303,000; Tasmania,
£195,000.
The Premiers are reported as saying
after the meeting that they expected some
lelaxation of credit-restrictions soon,
apparently basing their assumption on the
Menzies-Fadden remark that if unemploy-
ment continued to rise the Federal
Government could not bear the full
responsibility, and that private industry
would have to accept some of it.
Senator Spooner said a fortnight ago
that he doubted whether the credit-easing
of last December had yet had time to take
effect. The P.M. and Treasurer could still
be of this opinion.
A factor in the unemployment level
which seems to have had surprisingly
little mention is the effect of the drought-
breaking rains of the past few weeks.
Drought has a twofold effect on unem-
ployment, in addition to causing direct
loss of jobs. It causes a contraction of
spending and a fall in secondary produc-
tion induced by a fear of further contrac-
tion. The recent rains should at least
have removed the second of these
unemployment-producing factors.
After a Generation
[By “Ek Ditm”]
Thf. Queen Mother arrived in Canberra
nearly 31 years after her previous visit as
Duchess of York. She has come out of
a vastly altered world, one more changed
by the events of her generation than by
anything that happened in the previous
three-hundred years.
A Great War, nuclear power, the dis-
appearance of the British Empire, the rise
of Russia, the wiping-out of unemploy-
ment, the world-wide triumph of tech-
nology and the air age, have all developed
in the interval.
Since her last coming Canberra has
grown from an unfinished camp with a
raw-white Parliament House sticking up
out of the bush to the beautiful city of
today.
When she came before, I was drawn
into the preparations in London, know-
ing the organiser of the tour, (Sir) Harry
Batterbee, with whom I had travelled in
H.M.S. Hood. How far behind the present
times, those were can be judged by the
fact that at first it was proposed that
there should be no newspapermen in the
Renown, which was to carry the Royal
party via Panama, and that I should come
as a public-relations man. We settled
that tactfully when S. M. Bruce came to
England for the momentous 1926
Imperial Conference. Two Australian
newspapermen went in the ship.
Before the expedition left the Duchess
of York, sapphire-blue-eyed, easy in
manner, merry, but with an underlying
pensiveness, joined her husband in enter-
taining at tea strangers who were joining
the Renown. Somebody asked her if
she liked going. To which she replied:
“Very much. I shall look forward to
seeing some of my old Diggers*’—
she had looked after a lot of wounded.
But she added rather wistfully: “At the
same time, I don’t like leaving my little
baby behind.”
Nobody dreamed at the time that
she herself, a decade later, would be a
Queen. Nobody was even dimly con-
scious of the possibility that 30 years
on she would fly round the world as
casually and with as little ceremony as
if she were taking the Royal train to
Balmoral, leaving behind the “little baby”
in the role of the Queen of the Common-
wealth celebrating the end of the sixth
year of her reign as she did on
February 6.
Schmella's Message
Although it will not deceive those who
have any first-hand knowledge of the
Labor movement in Victoria, Jack
Schmella, Federal secretary of the A.L.P.,
has had circulated to members a report
about the unwelcome attention and
attempted infiltration the party is receiving
from Communists and fellow-travellers.
Schmella admits the “attempted” infil-
tration because it gives him the oppor-
tunity to go on to denounce the Reds
and their belief that because the “enemy


of the extreme Right has been routed,
some tolerance will be shown to the
extreme Left.”
Schmella says nothing could be further
from the truth ; Labor no more wants
extreme Leftists than fanatical Rightists
because they have no place in a party that
has its own policies. The lost ground
could be recovered quickly, now the weak
supports have been removed, if members
followed the diligence and sincerity of
the pioneers.
The report is well timed in Victoria,
where a State election will be held within
a few raonths, and, probably, a Federal
election at the year’s end. It is designed
to consolidate the A.L.P.’s weak tail of
men who see no prospect whatever of
any substantial Labor success in the
present divided ranks ; and it has achieved
its secondary aim also of wide publicity
for the claim of Labor repugnance to
Communism.
It is, however, all very far from the
facts. The Reds, with their balance of
power, continue to direct the Trades Hall
Council executive, and their power
becomes more manifest at the public
council meetings each month. In the
industrial field covered by the Melbourne
Trades Hall, Communist policy is
dominant over A.L.P. policy as expressed
through the executive.
The Victorian A.L.P. itself veers
steadily more Left under the influence of
three delegates whose votes always
support Communist policy.
Moreover, as Frank McManus,
secretary of the D.L.P. in Victoria, points
out, the Victorian branch of the A.L.P.
continues to defy the Federal A.L.P. by
carrying on unity-tickets of Communist
and A.L.P. nominees in elections to defeat
D.L.P. nominees.
It would be naive to believe that
Schmella’s report was a veiled protest or
warning against this. He got what he
really wanted —a message about Labor’s
heart of oak, without white-ants, and
splendid publicity for it.
Revolt at the Pig-trough
[By “II Pappagallo”]
The disturbance of mind felt by the
publicans of N. S. Wales, in particular
at the drift of business to the clubs, is
symptomatic of the times.
It is the result of the pig-trough condi-
tions for which the State Government is
responsible through its long-term failure
to administer the law; also, in part,
of the new advantages in gambling
possessed by the clubs with the introduc-
tion of poker-machines on a principle
under which the Government is ready to
declare anything short of murder to be
moral, provided it gets its cut.
The pig-trough Sydney bars, in
particular, and those of the big industrial
cities in N. S. Wales are notorious through-
out the world, and it was thought that the
breweries would be willing to sacrifice
them in return for late-closing, the intro-
duction of the beer-garden and encourage-
ment for ladies to swill as well as gentle-
men.
Beer-gardens in some Sydney suburbs
are now second homes for a large section
of the public, though eschewed by the
breed of drinker who rushes into the bar
when he leaves work and orders five
schooners as a matter of course so that
he will be able to ingurgitate the maximum
before legal closing-time arrives.
The Cahill Government apparently felt
that the new system would extend drinking
for its strong financial supporters, but the
thing has had a bad kick-back. Saloon
after saloon, swill-shop after swill-
shop, is disappearing from the land-
scape in the City, while the owners of
the licences make valiant efforts to have
them transferred to the suburbs, where
the roar of the beer-garden (often more
like a bear-garden) rises ever more
steadily to fortissimo.
It appears, however, that even
lengthened hours and female drinking
haven’t compensated for the opposing
attraction of the poker-machine, which is
often combined with cheap drinking.
Hotels in N. S. Wales, according to
U.L.V.A., are losing £7,500,000 a year to
the clubs, or an average of £7O per week
per hotel in the State.
Why this happens can be easily
estimated by a look at some soldiers’ clubs.
In one such country club the subscription
is £1 a year, and men from the first
war are honorary members. It has all
sorts of facilities, including picture-nights.
It sells all drinks at a shilling, Scotch
whisky included. It has in three years
built a fine building, which any city club
would like to own, on a membership of
about 350. It gave £SOOO to civic objec-
tives last year. It gives a huge dinner to
every citizen who cares to come at
Christmas-time. It looks after any Digger
who falls on hard times, and may see
him and his family through hospital or
over a period when he can’t work. It
made profits nevertheless well on towards
£15,000 last year, is contemplating
additions to its • buildings, and all this
out of poker-machines after the Govern-
ment has taken its cut.
The trouble with the hotel trade in
N. S. Wales, as in most other States, is
that the liquor business is based on easy
money without skill or service. The law as
regards meals and accommodation is
evaded in many cases. And most clubs
which subsist on poker-machines are
obviously, whatever they are called, only
gambling-joints and couldn’t exist other-
wise except on the most sordid level, now
that they have no advantage in drinking-
hours over the “hotels.”
We're Getting Younger
[From “Ex-ACT”]
When recently the British Prime Minister
expressed support for the migration pro-
gramme in spite of the increasing average
age of the people of Britain, a good many
Australians must have recalled that this
country was faced with a similar prob-
lem immediately before World War H.
The facts were recalled by the Australian
Prime Minister in an address to the
recent Citizenship Convention—the same
address in which he remarked, rather
inaccurately in view of Dr. Evatt’s
unexpected and resoundingly unsuccess-
ful bid later to upset the proceedings, that
we had a bipartisan policy on migration
and there were “no political divisions
between us.”
It was recalled by Mr. Menzies that
the rising percentage of elderly people
in the community before the war, and
the diminishing percentage of people in
the earning- and producing-age, were
causing concern that the whole economy
might become distorted. Post-war
migration, however, had effaced that
gloomy picture. More than 70 per cent,
of migrants, he stated, were in the age-
groups between 15 and 59, whereas the
overall Australian percentage was 58.2.
The percentage of migrants between 20
and 29 was double the percentage of
the total Australian population.
These are figures heartening -to those
envisaging the dynamic development of
Australia, although they may depress
the statesmen of some European nations
who are contributing to the flow of our
new citizens. They also suggest that
our social services, if kept within reason-
able bounds and changed somewhat in
their impact to give the urgently-needed
impetus to saving and thrift generally,
should never prove too great a burden.
We are a young and virile nation
again, and all the efforts of the
Socialists to destroy the pioneering spirit
must continue to fail miserably.
Food for the Guzzle
[From “Collins Street”]
Dr. Birrell, the enthusiastic young Vic-
torian police-surgeon who is very devoted
to his job, has come up with two more
ideas for reducing the danger of the five-
to-six beer-swill in Victoria which police
statistics show is at least one of the
greatest killers on the roads.
He wants licensees to serve food during
this period because the drinking is done
on empty stomachs, and he also wants
them to ask customers for their car-keys
and to suggest to them taking a taxi home.
The first suggestion is practical and
valuable. Some of the best food at a
reasonable price available in Victoria at
lunch-time is now served in bars —in some
cases at a substantial loss —and it would
require little adjustment for licensees to
have some of their simpler and less
expensive dishes available in the late
afternoon, making the guzzling less
dangerous.
Dr. Birrell’s other suggestion would
never find a wide acceptance in Victoria,
since licensees are almost wholly
dependent on the swill-hour trade for
their livelihood, and they couldn’t afford
to offend free-spenders after their spend-
ing was ended.
The general practice, as in England,
of declining to serve a customer who ’as
’ad enough, sir, would be less offensive
than asking him for his car-keys.
Best of all would be the elimination of
the swill by the extension of hotel-hours ;
but that will not be possible while the
liquor trade is allowed to run the cam-
paign against the wowsers and to be
hobbled by some of its richest and most
powerful members running sehlenters
when there is a poll.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
'"pHE women’s-wear advertised in
the American magazine as “designed
to round gently and uplift slightly”
wasn’t a bra. Uplift, it seems, is con-
sidered necessary aft as well as forrard
now that sheath-skirts compel a gait
resembling that of Miss Monroe. —
“Roomy.”
*** ❖ 4-
“Narumee”: The sixth week of the
long holidays reduced my daughter to a
willingness, nay, eagerness, to visit the
Museum. Afterwards, I asked her what
she’d liked best, and was told “That
beaut. Chinese pottery of the Fifth
Dysentery.”
* * *
“Jobber”: Judicial ignorance of
colloquial phrases (B. 15/1/ ’5B) has a
reverse-side. A tough gentleman giving
evidence against one of similar standing
was asked by counsel for the defence if
he was “aware of any fraudulent intent.”
The tough gent, was floored, but the other
gent.-one had his wits about him and
came in with “Did you jerry there was
anything crook?” That simplified the
matter, and the case proceeded.
❖ -> »>
“D.A.”: Among the recent flush of
unusual or topical Australian Christmas-
cards was that of Metal Manufacturers,
Ltd., Port Kembla. It was the reproduc-
tion of a color-photo of the site of
Rachel Henning’s home at American
Creek, near Figt r e e (Wollongong,
N.S.W.). A black-and-white photo of
the house (now gone) was included in
The Letters of Rachel Henning; it was
built in 1873 and 1874, and Rachel con-
sidered “we should never [elsewhere]
find a place we liked so well, or in the
midst of such lovely scenery as lllawarra.”
The Christmas-card shows-up the beauty
of the Bulli Range and the flame-trees of
the South Coast.
♦♦♦ ♦> -t*
“Kelvin”: I don’t know anything about
non-entitled Scottish soldier-wearers, of
the kilt (B. 29/1/’5B), but Foch summed
it up when he was reviewing a march-
past of Highland regiments: “For war —
useless: for love—excellent.” The
generalissimo had observed the shock-
ingly-blistered nether regions of High-
landers who in the shell-holes and
trenches full of mustard-gas had been
without the protection of the
breeches and puttees of the
other Allied troops.
❖ ♦> *
“Phil Anthus”: Would any-
one care to make a small wager
about the Christian-names of
“Das” Lasseter, the odd figure
whose name bobs up so often
in the Centre? The Sydney
“Herald” recently labelled him
H. R. B. Lasseter, H. L. B.
Lasseter, and Harold Bell
Lasseter, all in the one article.
lon Idriess (Lasseter s Last
Ride ) had left the point open,
but Errol Coote (Hell’s Airport)
had plumped for Lewis Harold
Bell Lasseter, Frank Clune had
made it Henry Lewis Bell
Lasseter, and a Sydney maga-
zine had added further variety
with Lance Harold Bell
Lasseter. I’m willing to wager a
trifle that Coote was correct.
“Dorian”: In a Sydney
cathedral two youths were hard
at work with pliers and screw-
drivers at the console of the
organ halfway down the nave.
Seven or eight bishops filed
past; each dignitary passed
some comment, such as: “It’s
good to see young chaps
working,” or “Don’t strain
yourself, boys.” Presently one
of the plier-wielders downed-
tools and made off outside to
find a hammer. Then to the
remaining toiler, bent over
the bowels of the organ, came a familiar
voice, something like the Archbishop’s:
“I’m glad to see someone doing some
work on the organ.” The worker, head
bent, and assuming it was his friend
taking-off the Archbishop, snapped, “Stop
being a bloody fool and bring the
hammer over here and give me a hand.”
The same dry voice answered, “Young
man, I would if I had the time,” where-
upon the youth, with a curious feeling
in the pit of his stomach, woke-up.
❖ <* ❖
“Willie Nillie”: Both Melbourne’s
cathedrals have gargoyles (“Doric,”
B. 22/1/’5B), and at the Church of the
Immaculate Conception, Hawthorn, there
was a carved head, either a saint, gar-
goyle, Cupid or politician, the dead-spit
of Billy Hughes.
❖ *> ❖
■pERHAPS it’s true that 85 per cent.
of all inventions are aimed at
women (B. 5/ 2 / ’5B), but some fail.
Friend of mine, seeing the discomfiture of
women of all ages in windy weather, has
been trying more than 20 years to market
an invention to prevent dresses flying up.
Manufacturers doubt whether there’d be
a sufficient demand ; he began to see why
when his own wife, certainly no chicken,
looked out through the window in the
early morning and said “It's very windy
today ; I’ll have to wear my nylon under-
wear to town.”—“XC.”
“ You've been fighting again—and
in your best suit, too!”
ROUGH SPIN
“Mr. Hairdwicke, S.M., told a boomerang-
maker charged with vagrancy at Newcastle,
N.S.W., that boomerang-making was a precari-
ous living.”
The atom splits, the jets go bang ;
The more they do, the more they earn,
Whereas in trade the boomerang
Has reached the point of No Return,
Able to do no more than fracture
The heart set on its manufacture.
We have the Rock-and-Roll as yet —
Where can “Corroboree” have gone?
Of two such dances why forget
The nobler and the manlier fine?
What of our old Australian loyalties,
(Not to mention Antill’s royalties}?
O shameful peace, O flaccid race!
It’s time we had another war,
With Yankees strewn about the place
As densely as they were before,
And warlike boomerangs and spears
Produced again for souvenirs.
N.S.VV.
SEWILLIAM.


AN early instalment of “The Man on
~ the Handkerchief” brought to mind
incidents both amusing and pathetic, one
of which I think is bordering on unique.
In the early ’nineties I lived in Burton
Street, Sydney, almost opposite where
Archer committed murder, close to a
slum-lane where another murder was
committed —more about it anon—and
within a stone’s-throw of the old
Darlinghurst skating-rink, the venue of
the bitter fight between the Melbourne
colored boy Jerry Marshall and Griffo.
This architectural wonder facing
Forbes Street backed on to a paddock
over an acre in area. My cobber and I
knew of a small sheet of corrugated-iron
which might yield to treatment. It did,
and my cobber entered. I was almost in
when I was hauled out by the foot and
given the Order of the Boot. Later I
joined the crowd in the paddock listening
to the din and strife, which culminated
in scenes of the wildest disorder, a
veritable pandemonium, when Griffo’s
cohorts from the Rocks saved him from
defeat, but not before he had received
terrific punishment.
What of my cobber? ’Tis a sad, sordid
story. He fell to the lowest depths of
degeneracy ; in a hovel, in a squalid lane
in a slum-area, he lived with, and on the
earnings of, a prostitute. He cut her
throat from ear-to-ear in a drunken
brawl, and some 21 years after our
escapade I took a minor part in his trial
for murder at the Central Criminal Court,
Darlinghurst.
Counsel assigned by the Crown could
do nothing for him, and it fell to my lot
in the crowded court, in deathlike silence,
to call him by name, tell him the name of
the crime wherewith he stood indicted,
that he had pleaded not guilty, that the
jury had found him guilty: Have you
anything to say why sentence of death
should not be passed upon you according
to law ?
Did he recognise me? I know not. I
hope not.
Many years later when I read the
biography of Edgar Wallace I realised
his feelings when it became necessary for
him to represent his paper at the execu-
tion of a murderer in South Africa —a
man he had befriended and assisted
financially in England.
O. W. COLEBORNE.
“Augustus”: The ancient in the back
of the bus was growling about the
weather. Heat, storms, everything ;in
all his born days he’d never known the
like. “It’s all this foolin’ about with
things they didn’t ought,” he accused.
Then he sighed. “I wish Joe Stalin hadn’t
died. He’d have fixed ’em! ”
*4* ❖
“Kate”: No, said my 10-year-old, she
didn’t win any prizes at the ballet-
contest, but her dancing had been highly
condemned.
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“G.E.”: Will you advise me how to
get into the new Hobart jail? I learn
“I haven't a clue WHO he is!”
that it will be centrally heated, that each
prisoner will have a 10ft.-by-Bft. cell with
a bed, wash-basin and water-closet, and
the jail will have recreation-rooms,
classrooms and a library. I am paying
£6 a week for a room with a gas-ring
as the mod. con. The shower and toilet
are across the passage.
❖ <4 4*4
“North Esk”: When Launceston (Tas.)
radio-taxi drivers began hearing directions
to proceed straightway and pick up
passengers at addresses which they
presently recognised as belonging to Bris-
bane. But then they found that freak con-
ditions were causing the high-frequency
signals from Queensland to jump far
beyond their usual twenty- to thirty-mile
range, and so a wild lemming-rush of
taxis into Bass Strait was averted.
* * *
[From Frederic A. Richardson, 4752 Cliovven
Avenue South, Minneapolis 10, Minnesota,
U.S.A.]
An American, I came across The
Bulletin several years ago. I read it
from cover to cover. The other day I
was in the reading-room of a Minneapolis
club, and happened on the Christmas
Bulletin (December 11). I was told that
it got into the club by a member swap-
ping U.S. periodicals for the Australian
equivalent. I wish I could establish
similar “swapping” connections as my
interest in Australia is really intense.
The magazines from Australia' in our
Minneapolis club, thoifgh they arrived
by surface mail, were just a little over a
month old. Not bad!
*> *
“Ceg”: Puffing Billy (B. 5/2/’5B),
the toy train that pants its way from
Ferntree Gully to Belgrave in the
Dandenongs, reminded me that the Battle
of the Banks for savings-business still
rages: the State Savings Bank of Vic-
toria advertised free trips on Puffing
Billy for children and their parents. All
they had to do was go into the Ferntree
Gully branch and ask for tickets . . . just
another way banks have of creating
interest, no doubt.
*> *t+ *X*
“Alma”: Touching on silent cops—
traffic-buttons —know of a cove who
whipped round a corner a bit too sharply
and dislodged the poached-egg from its
toast, or popped the button from its
buttonhole. Nobody about, so he
hopped out and swiftly tossed the button
into the boot. History doesn’t relate
what he did with it when he got it home,
nor how its absence was accounted-for by
the local vocal cop.
“C.W.0.”: The King’s Theatre, Mel-
bourne, where Bert Bailey appeared so
often in “On Our Selection” and from
whose roof Houdini once dangled at the
end of a rope head-down in a strait-
jacket, is to be remodelled into a long-
run picture-house. It will open with Cecil
B. De Mille’s “Ten Commandments.” It
is just 34 years since the Capitol, then
Melbourne’s most luxurious cinema, was
finished ; and what was its first offering?
Cecil B. De Mille’s “Ten Command-
ments.” I wonder how many times
they’ve all been broken in those 34 years?
❖ ♦♦♦ *J*
“Bo”: The Japanese Government’s
brewing laboratory has announced that
improved alcoholic beverages will be
marketed dehydrated in toothpaste-tubes.
Far be it from me to snipe at Wataboko-
san, Swolosake-san and other noble-
minded Nip scientists, but have they
stopped to consider that the obvious place


for father to plant his weekend stock' of
beer-faste is in the shaving-cabinet,
behind all the old half-empty medicine-
bottles? His obvious stratagem, when
helping himself to a surreptitious quickie,
will be to spread beer-paste on to his
toothbrush and clean his tats before
swallowing the equivalent of a middy.
Such assiduous tooth-scrubbing will ruin
hundreds of dentists. And what of the
damage to the rubber rollers of automatic
jvringers caused by the determination of
the true beer-chewer to get the last
globule of paste from his tube? But the
chief objection must be to the awful
possibility of getting your pastes mixed
and, after having spat out the beer-froth
With which you’ve cleaned your teeth,
take a hearty swig of Kolynos or Col-
gate’s. No—l’ll stick to bottles.
“Zorok”: The double swing-doors to
the Gents, at Sydney Municipal Library
have In on one door and Out on the
other. 0.K., that’s all right. But, when
“And I wish youd remember he's Champion Lord Howlagh
of Snifftreigh —NOT Stinker!"
you’re coming out again, you push with-
out thinking the door with Out on it —
and find you came out by the same Door
as in you went. I can’t work out the ins
and outs of it, but I hope I’m not coming
or going through when someone with a
lot of push is heading the other way.
v *** *'
“0.G.”: A 10-year-old Austrian
migrant was puzzled by our monetary
system. His playmate explained: “A
tris is slang for a tray, a zack is slang
for a sprat, a deener is slang for a bob,
and a spin is slang for five-quid—that’s
enough io go on with-you're too new to
Iparn rork-an’-roll ”
♦> *
“Anunaka”: Parked the car in Queen
Street, Brisbane, and couldn’t decide
whether to put my money in the parking-
meter or to tie the bumper-bar to the
old-time hitching-post standing right
beside it. After all, the old bomb’s just
about one horse-power, and the way
things are with car-thieves or tow-away
troopers it’s more likely to go off than a
horse.
A
K * *
“Sister Ellell”: “Myall’s” church at
Mary Kathleen (B. 22/8/’57) recalls just
such another we had at Adelaide River
(N.T.). It, too, was used by all denomi-
nations ; and was made from bamboo. In
the lull between the prayers you could
hear the borers in the bamboo, and its
proximity to the sergeants’ lines made
early-morning service extra-interesting as
the sergeants were usually abluting in
the showers at that time. It was also
quite near the bomb-happy ward, and
although it had been consecrated St.
Luke’s by the Bishop of Carpentaria it
was always referred to (and not irrever-
ently, either) as “St. Neurosis.”
“Fairf”: Young niece informed me that
she had been doing “cursed writing” at
school that day. Violent and strange
words from a seven-year-old for ever
laboriously pencilling the four-letter
words in the small-case printing with
which present-day kids are first taught
to write. It wasn’t until she proudly
showed me a sample of the day’s work
that the light broke through. “Running
writing,” the kids used to call it a year
or two a S? *> now, apparently, it gets its
adult monicker: “cursive.”
*> ' *
„„ = E r V n J° e ?T * e , flaSh
car Wlth ltS rOW ° f club-badges Strung
along the front, but in Martin Place
(Sydney) I saw a variation. It was one
of those big cars with window-space all
round. Behind the back seat, screwed to
the ledge, was what could have been a
long towel-rail, and on this rail were
screwed badges from auto clubs of the
world. Whether it was to keep the
badges clean or to stop souvenir-hunters
or just to fill up the space I don’t know,
but it certainly stopped the crowds.
* ❖ *■>
“0.W.W.”: Italian family-sympathy
(B. 8/1 / ’5B) extends outside the family,
too. In Waadi Camp in Egypt, in 1945,
an Italian prisoner, working as a waiter
in a Kiwi officers’ mess, seemed distressed
while serving dinner. He had received
news of his father’s death in Italy, but
insisted on working, even though he was
told he could retire. After dinner loud
wailing came from the tent where Ital'n
mess-hands had their meals. I found the
waiter and six ltie cobbers all howling
to high heaven, Maori tangi fashion.
iji
“Croid”: She had been taking school
swimming-lessons, and at the end of the
term proudly displayed a certificate that
she was capable of swimming six-yards.
Well, if she got into difficulties in the
surf she could produce her certificate and
prove she really did need the handsome
lifesaver’s attention.
NEEDED NUPTIAL NOSTRUM
“In general, brides are able to wear an air
of repose and serenity in church, in marked
contrast to so many bridegrooms who either
stare woodenly ahead or adopt an
exaggeratedly - serious manner.” Womens
paper.
Observe the bride!
Calm, dignified,
She’ll face the service
Chockful, you sense,
Of confidence;
In no wise nervous.
The hunter, she
Well knows that he.
Her man, is landed ;
There’ll be no slip
’Twixt cup and lip —
He’ll soon be branded.
Observe the ’groom!
As if to Doom
Instead of wedding,
With nervous tread,
By best-man led
He’s slowly heading.
He stares pie-eyed
At pacing bride;
Tugs at his collar.
Like high-strung colt,
He’d like to bolt,
You’d bet a dollar!
With voice a wheeze.
And shaking knees—
All agitated,
He feels a goat.
His lips and throat
Are dehydrated.
This needn’t be!
Why couldn’t she
Take tip from turfdom.
And give her hope
A shot of dope
To help him cope
With coming serfdom?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Aviation in Australia
"Flying Matilda"
Book-review by ADRIAN WINTLE
Norman ellison,
author of Flying
Matilda (Angus and
Robertson), is a
journalist whose interest in
aviation has been the ruling
passion of his career. He has
divided his Flying Matilda
into two sections: Part One,
titled “Loose Leaves from
Australian Air History,” is
really a series of personal
sketches and lively anecdotes,
laced with accounts of mile-
stones of flying history ; Part
Two is given over entirely to
the life and career of Sir
Charles Kingsford Smith
(“Smithy” to countless Aus-
tralians).
Ellison’s style throughout the
book is forceful and direct;
one feels that, beside his superb
pen-picture of Smithy the man
and Smithy the world-beating
airman, personal anecdote is
his specialty.
Glancing back, it’s hard to
appreciate how far aviation has
progressed in a mere 30 years ;
such progress says a good deal
for the tenacity and dogged-
ness both of designers and
pilots. It is a stupendous
achievement to have come
from, in 1919, what Harry
Broadsmith called “frail fabric-
and-wood structures” to the
present-day stratocruisers, jet-
airliners and so forth.
Harry Broadsmith
TXARRY BROADSMITH
was the man who founded
aircraft-manufacture in Aus-
tralia. He was in charge of the
Manchester (U.K.) factories of
A. V. Roe and Co., which pro-
duced no fewer than 8340
Avro training-planes during
War I, and had a big hand in
getting that firm’s Avro 504 K
off the blueprints and into the
air. At the end of War I —in
1919—Broadsmith decided to
establish in Sydney the Aus-
tralian agency for Avros.
With two airmen—Love and
Warneford, both Aussies and
both attached to the Australian
Flying Corps Broadsmith
formed the Australian Aircraft
and Engineering Company,
sending Love to Australia, in
September, 1919, to select a
site for what was to be
Sydney’s first aerodrome.
Nigel Love picked 160 acres
at Mascot as a potential air-
field ; a little later Broadsmith
and his family landed at
Sydney; and Love took him
out to see the aerodrome site.
Ellison quotes Broadsmith’s
reaction:
I was a newchum in Australia, and
1 expected different conditions from
the Old Country—but nothing like
the difference in the approach to
Mascot. We were in Nigel Love’s
car, and, as I soon discovered,
Botany Road was a pair of tram-
tracks, bordered on each side by
armies of pot-holes. We kept to
the tram-tracks as much as possible.
As soon as we drove on to the
paddock there were immediate
proofs of its use and of an indus-
trial aftermath. Grazing there was
a herd of fearsome-looking long-
homed cattle; and there was an
unpleasant odor from the nearby
boiling-down factory. But what-
ever its aesthetic failings, the site
was aeronautically a winner . . .
Pot-holes aren’t unknown in
outer-suburban Sydney roads
today.
Broadsmith went ahead ; his
first hangar was a small
canvas - covered structure,
housing one plane, an Avro
504 K. In order to raise much-
needed cash, in 1920 he started
joy-riding flights at four-
guineas per passenger for five
minutes. (That was real dough
then; today it costs roughly a
quarter for a much longer
time.)
Then, an Event: Ross and
Keith Smith, with Bennett and
Shiers making up the rest of
the team, stopped at Mascot
on their way south after the
first flight from England to
Australia. There was a large
crowd at Mascot, and, as the
Smiths’ Vickers Vimy touched-
down, an “avalanche of impetu-
ous, cheery people” knocked
Broadsmith clean off his feet.
It must have been some crowd,
because eventually Broadsmith
got whirled away to the far
edge, and it was only with
difficulty that he managed to
regain the marquee —to find
the triumphant visitors moving
off in their cars for Sydney.
That year (1920) saw the
first passenger - flight from
Sydney to Melbourne, landings
en route being made at Goul-
burn, Yass, Cootamundra,
Albury and Seymour. Length
of trip, two days, and there
were nine hours’ flying. Then
a paint firm chartered a plane
to take its senior salesman to
a total of 42 country towns ;
Nigel Love piloted, and, there
being no ’dromes, used the
nearest suitable paddocks.
While the paint-man hunted-up
custom Love engaged himself
profitably with joy-flying.
Joy-flying was such a
money-spinner that late in the
year A.A.E.C. used to buzz a
plane over to the seaside
suburb of Manly, do a day’s
joy-flying and fly back to
Mascot late in the afternoon.
And, in what Ellison describes
as “probably Australia’s first
airlift,” the greater part of a
flood-stranded flock of sheep
worth £7OOO was saved by
flying over them and dropping
bags of maize.
Thus, faced with a gradual
and awakening interest in air-
craft, and only two years after
kicking-off, A.A.E.C. turned to
manufacturing planes on a
commercial scale. But after a
brave and deserving start, the
co. was overwhelmed by a
variety of problems.
Broadsmith spent over a
quarter-of-a-century helping
Australian aviation ; he visited
Australia six times. On his final
return to England, A. V. Roe
took him back at a very high
level. In 1938 he was offered
the position of head of the
Commonwealth Aircraft Cor-
poration, then (and now) the
biggest project in Australia’s
air history. Broadsmith de-
dined the offer, and it’s hardly
surprising: after six attempts
to establish an aircraft-industry
in Australia one can under-
stand his staying in a secure
British job.
Qantas
SON’S third chapter
traces the story of Qantas
(Queensland and Northern
Territory Aerial Services). No.
1 Squadron, Australian Flying
Corps, produced the two men
who conceived and established
Qantas —“Ginty” McGinness
and Hudson Fysh.
Just as the Broadsmith story
was one of persistent effort,
not necessarily of ultimate
success or wealth (not in Aus-
tralia, at any rate), so Mc-
Ginness and Fysh battled hard
and long to put their company
on its feet, a company that
today has a capital of
£7,200,000, is Government-
owned, has a staff numbering
over 5000 and a fleet of 36 air-
craft valued at £l6 million.
Qantas was Australia’s
second airline, the first being,
in 1921, Western Australian
Airways, a subsequent stamp-
ing-ground of Smithy.
After the war, newly dis-
charged, McGinness and Fysh
decided to enter civil aviation.
They landed a Defence Depart-
ment job to survey an air-route
from Longreach to Darwin;
they had to select and set-up
landing-fields along the course
in preparation for a £lO,OOO
England-Australia flight com-
petition. In its initial plans
the department asked that the
air-route pass through Clon-
curry, Burketown, Borroloola
(on the Gulf of Carpentaria)
and along the Gulf shore to
Darwin. A Model-T Ford was
ready at Longreach with a
mechanic, and shipped petrol
was waiting at three ports in
the region.
McGinness and Fysh got
stuck into the tough work of
surveying this almost-unsurvey-
able country; in some areas
(Continued on page 34)


POLITICAL POINTS
A Soviet expedition is to climb Mt.
Everest. They must be in earnest about
summit talks.
• •
Circular Quay overhead roadway
connecting Sydney Harbor Bridge with
Macquarie Street is nearing completion
and will be opened on March 24 or 25 by
Premier Cahill —unless Jack Lang decides
to De Groot him.
• •
Preselection machines are beginning to
whir smartly in Victoria for the State
election in May with the Liberals choos-
ing candidates for five Country-party
seats, Gippsland West, Gippsland East
(which Sir Albert Lind has been winning,
usually rather comfortably, for just on 40
years), Benalla, Benambra and Ballarat
North.
The A.L.P. is also after C.P. seats —at
Benalla, Gippsland West, Mildura and
Ballarat North. Settling any fond hopes
Labor may have in Ballarat North, the
D.L.P. is also entering the field there.
Labor has always polled better in Vic-
torian country districts than the results
indicate ; but general D.L.P. intervention
could prove disastrous for it.
• •
For those who recall the early days of
World War I, when the Germans over-
ran Belgium with considerable ferocity,
there will be something thought-compel-
ling in the news that German Chancellor
Adenauer has been made an honorary
doctor of Louvain University.
• •
N.S.W. Liberal leader Morton says that
when the Cahill Government brings down
its bill to amend the method of election
for Sydney City Council his party will
press for a complete reform of the
council. The Libs, suggest a council of
24 aldermen, half to be elected by voters
in four city wards and the other half to
be chosen by the votes of all aldermen in
the County of Cumberland. The Lord
Mayor would be elected by the City
Council, as was the custom until 1953.
Morton fears it is the intention of the
A.L.P to push the boundaries of the
city out to absorb several Eastern
Suburbs municipalities, and he says the
new legislation will have to be watched
very closely to see that it is not an attempt
to further this aim.
His own scheme has dangers, too. By
making the council a County of Cumber-
land affair he paves the way for a back-
door approach to the Greater Sydney plan
he has always opposed.
The problems of Sydney City Council
are vastly different from those of suburban
councils, and the method of election
should recognise this fact. A voting
system should be devised which will
give adequate recognition to the business
community, who provide the lion’s share
of the council’s revenue.
• •
New Zealand Prime Minister Walter
Nash will spend two days in Sydney next
week on his way to Malaya. During his
stay at Kirribilli House he will have dis-
cussions with Prime Minister Menzies
and other Ministers.
• •
According to McManus, secretary of
the Victorian D.L.P., the three other
parties have made overtures for the
party’s preferences at the May elections.
• •
British Prime Minister Macmillan’s
reply to Bulganin’s request for summit
talks repeated his willingness to partici-
pate in such a meeting provided it is
preceded by adequate preparation. Mac-
millan stressed that unless there could
be broad agreement on the nature and
order of the agenda and a reasonable
prospect of achieving concrete results on
specific issues “we should run the risk
of a fruitless meeting which might make
matters worse instead of better.”
He reminded Bulganin of their meeting
at Geneva in 1955 and said he felt that
one of the main reasons for failure on
that occasion was that the ground had
not been sufficiently prepared before the
heads of Government met.
Macmillan repeated his suggestion that
a meeting of Foreign Ministers should
precede any summit conference. Alterna-
tively, preparations could be made
“through confidential diplomatic
exchanges.”
• •
Moscow is still sticking-out for
summit talks without any preliminaries.
So is Sydney “Tribune.” So is Dr. Evatt.
• •
Artful John Galbally, Labor leader in
the Victorian Legislative Council, has put
Premier Bolte on a trapdoor and operated
it. The State Government was misguided
enough to announce that rabbits could
not be kept as pets, except when licensed,
on the pretext that some Europeans were
eating them. The result was that the
Melbourne Zoo had to find accommoda-
tion for more than 1000 children’s pets,
and the newspapers published many
pictures of appealing creatures being
given up by appealing children.
Galbally blandly pointed-out that there
was no reason why the young owners
shouldn’t get licences ; he even suggested
the form the letter to the superintendent
of Vermin and Noxious Weeds Control
should take. Bolte hurriedly announced
the licences wouldn’t be granted, anyway.
Result: for the children and their
sympathisers Bolte is Bad, Galbally is
Good.
Bolte has got rid of the rabbits, but
he’s raised an enormous litter of young
tigers.
• •
“N.G.8.”: A circular ballot-paper for
Senate elections to obviate unfairness (B.
29/1 / ’58)? The Constitutional Associ-
ation of Australia has foi several years
been discussing a circular ballot-paper and
it is hoped that the authorities will make
use of the suggestion for the next Senate
elections.
• •
Immigration Minister Athol Townley
was sworn-in last week as Minister for
Supply and Defence Production in suc-
cession to Howard Beale, now on his
way to Washington to take up his post
as Ambassador. Senator Paltridge,
Minister for Shipping, Transport and
Civil Aviation, has been promoted from
the second-eleven to the Cabinet. These
changes are assumed to be temporary;
a bigger reshuffle of portfolios is expected
when the Government decides how far to
act on the recommendation of the
Morshead committee.
• •
Melbourne City Council -isn’t sitting
on the legacy of fine new sporting arenas
left over from the Olympics. Work
starts soon on Royal Park, now rather
neglected, to make it one of the finest
recreation-areas in the world, with 19
cricket-pitches, 14 football-fields, eight
Soccer-grounds, three baseball-diamonds,
two children’s playgrounds, 16 basketball-
courts, 14 tennis-courts, five hockey-
grounds, a golf-course and an athletics-
field.
The council is lucky to have a parks-
and-gardens committee and staff with
industry and imagination ; the committee
and staff are even luckier to have a
council with so much money.
• •
“Stromlo”: Another well-deserved
feather in the cap of Commonwealth
Statistician Carver is the announcement
that Queensland has joined the States
prepared to integrate their statistical
services with those of the Commonwealth.
For many years Carver refused to accept
the full post of statistician, as part of a
campaign to make all the States recognise
the benefits to themselves and the Aus-
tralian public of such integration; he
recently accepted the job when his efforts
were partly successful. Prime Minister
Menzies described the Queensland move
as a further major step towards satisfying
the generally-recognised need for co-
ordinating the collection and dissemina-
tion of statistical data on a uniform basis.
Not one of the P.M.’s more literary
utterances, but it is rather hard to turn
elegant phrases on the subject of statistics.


Passage through Westminster of the
new Peerage Bill means that in future
newly-created peers (including women)
will get only a life-sentence to the House
of Lords. In the past their children were
condemned to sit there, too.
• •
The make-his-stay-unpleasant policy
voiced by Leslie Haylen in connection
with Krupp’s visit to Australia is another
instance of the political immaturity shown
by many Labor men over the Kishi visit.
It’s all very well to talk of Australia
a young nation, but that’s no reason for
acting childishly in international affairs.
• •
A fortnight after the proclamation of
the United Arab Republic, linking the
peoples and resources of Egypt and Syria
under a single Government, the Kings of
Irak and Jordan have signed an agree-
ment uniting their countries to form the
Arab Federal State. The two monarchs
will retain their titles, but Feisal (of Irak)
becomes Head of State, with Hussein (of
Jordan) as his deputy. There’ll be one
flag, one currency, one army and defence-
policy, one educational system and one
economic and financial policy.
Feisal’s Federation is a much smaller
bloc than Nasser’s —6| million people
compared with 27 million, but its oil
resources and its links with other Moslem
countries through the Baghdad Pact give
the new union considerable importance
in the Arab world. Saudi Arabia seems
unlikely to join either Federation at
present.
U.N. will have soon to consider the
status of the two Arab Federations. Are
Egypt and Syria to be regarded by U.N.
as one country or two? Similarly with
Irak and Jordan.
• •
A Canberra report mentioned that the
Queen Mother was being popularly
referred to as “the Queen,” most people
finding the official “Queen Elizabeth, the
Queen Mother” too formal. Actually
the title has never had a very wide usage.
Queen Mary and Queen Alexandra were
far more often referred to by their names
than by the title. But Queen Mother is
almost unavoidable for the present Q.M.
BUNG
(U.L.V.A. Vision)
“The industry should take action to re-educate the public to think of the hotelkeeper
as the type of man which analysis of the survey returns shows him to be a family
man, a member of a church, and a citizen with civic interests.
Survey of the hotel-trade made tor the U.L.V.A.
owing to her having the same Christian-
name as the sovereign.
It is not generally realised how rare
Queen Mothers are in British history. To
find a predecessor to Alexandra it is
necessary to go back to 1660 to Henrietta
Maria, mother of Charles II ; the next
one before her would be another Eliza-
beth, the widow of Edward IV.
• •
Murray Valley Development League is
to hold a conference at Shepparton (Vic.)
on Thursday and Friday. The theme will
be “Develop Our Valley,” and papers will
be read on current development and
future possibilities. A talk which should
be of practical value will be that given by
F. G. James, managing-director of
Cleckheaton Spinning MilFs, an industry
which was successfully transferred from
Yorkshire to Shepparton.
• •
Rochdale, where the U.K. Conserva-
tives suffered an overwhelming defeat at
a by-election last week through a big
switch of votes to the Liberal candidate,
has never been a safe seat for any party.
In the heyday of Liberalism it generally
returned a Liberal member, but after the
rise of the Labor party it was usually
any man’s seat in a three-cornered fight.
From 1930 the Liberal vote steadily
dwindled and the party contested the seat
for the last time in 1950. In the following
year, in a straight-out fight the Conserva-
tives took the seat from Labor by 454
votes, increasing this majority to 1590
four years later.
In the by-election last week the Con-
servative vote dropped from 26,518 to
9827. Most of the lost votes went to the
Liberal candidate, who scored 17,603,
giving the Labor man, J. McCann, whose
total, 22,133, was down a couple of
thousand on his 1955 figures, an easy win.
Incidentally, the Liberal candidate,
Ludovic Kennedy, is a well-known TV-
personality and his wife is ballerina and
film-star Moira Shearer, which gives
point to the recent decision of the British
Labor party to coach its candidates in
TV technique. It seems the Conservative
party had better do a spot of grooming,
too.
• •
Newcom and Newstan collieries, put up
for sale by the Joint Coal Board despite
protests from the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment and the Miners’ Federation, were
saved from a fate worse than death, i.e.,
falling into the hands of private interests,
by the N.S.W. Electricity Commission
putting in a bid of £1,841,000 for
the two. Earlier a private tenderer was
interested but withdrew, leaving the field
to the commission. Pat Morton charges
the Cahills with having “brought pressure
to bear somewhere to dissuade private
colliery - proprietors from tendering.”
There were two factors deterring pos-
sible buyers from bidding—threats of
trouble from coalmining unions and the
possibility that the Electricity Commis-
sion might withdraw its custom from
the mines if it didn’t acquire them.


Where's ts TMA
flight to suit YOU!
Whenever you travel, wherever you travel, there’s always a
TAA VISCOUNT flight to suit you. For your convenience,
TAA operates daily round-the-clock Viscount flights, between
all states. From as far north as Cairns, to Hobart in the south, _
right across the nation to Perth in the west, you can fly TAA Viscount.
to
More people fly TAA —the friendly way
Reservations: TAA Booking Offices in all States or any authorised Travel Agent.
NPVStT
PERSONAL ITEMS
Winning awards is quite usual for Sir
George Paton, and although he has won
his way to the vice-chancellorship of
Melbourne University he is still at it:
the Carnegie Foundation has announced
the bestowal on him of a travel-grant to
study higher education and university
administration. The Patons seldom paid
school-fees for their studious and athletic
son ; he won a succession of scholarships,
exhibitions and prizes, became Rhodes
Scholar in 1926, lecturer at the London
School of Economics in 1930, and from
1931 until his appointment as vice-
chancellor in 1951 was Professor of
Jurisprudence and Dean of the Faculty of
Law.
He remains very much a quiet, pro-
fessional type rather than the high-
powered public-relations and contact man
that vice-chancellors now are expected to
become overnight. This is partly
explained by his family background. At
the time of his birth he had 12 near-
relatives Presbyterian clergymen. Some of
the Patons were early missionaries in the
Pacific islands.
• •
After 28 years as regular accompanist
with the A.B.C. in Perth Phyllis Blott
(Mrs. John Allen) has decided to close the
piano and retire into home life, except
for occasional recitals. A student of the
Melbourne Conservatorium, she was
introduced into radio work by Sir
Bernard Heinze, and her long service as
official accompanist brought her into asso-
ciation with many celebrities, including
Heddle Nash, Harold Williams, Arnold
Matters and Stanley Clarkson. Her
husband, F. B. (John) Allen, who was a
captain in the Second A.1.F., has been
announcer and studio-supervisor for the
A.B.C. in Perth for over 20 years, except
for a break of war-service in the Middle
East and Greece.
McNeil’s sketch of Gordon McColl
(below) shows the president of the Aus-
tralian Hauliers’ Association in serious
mood; in at The Bulletin office the
HAULIERS’ PRESIDENT
other day, while McNeil sketched,
McColl talked about roads. All road-
users should pay a fair and equitable
tax for the maintenance of roads, McColl
said ; but he didn’t see much point in
State Governments getting money from
any section of the road-using public
when the money they were already
receiving from road-users wasn’t going
into roads, anyway ; nor was this money
chicken-feed —for instance, the N. S.
Wales Government was currently collect-
ing about £l| million from intra- State
hauliers —and this money was going into
the railways.
The whole principle of a Government,
running its own transport service, and
with taxing power over what it con-
siders that service’s chief competitors,
was wrong, McColl said. It was also
wrong that something as vital to the
country as roads are should be adminis-
tered on a local basis. The remedy,
ultimately, was some such organisation
as the U.S.A. Inter-State Commerce
Commission, with overriding powers.
A chunky, vital bloke, with a face that
switches easily from dead-serious to the
opposite, with a wide grin, McColl is
47, managing-director of McColl Inter-
State Transport Pty., Ltd., and has been
in the carrying game since 1936. He
started inter-State carrying, in common
with many other local carriers, in June,
1945. It is sometimes forgotten now,
that long-distance carrying started at
the invitation of the Government, in
a time of grave strikes that threatened to
dislocate industry. McColl lives at
Manly, but has about 20 acres and a
weekender near Kurrajong. This writer
went for a spin with him around those
pleasant hills the other day, and was
impressed by McColl’s light hand on the
wheel of his perfectly - conditioned
Rover ; not surprising, perhaps, since he
has not only driven for a livelihood —
he still takes a big truck to Melbourne
occasionally—but does so for fun. He
drove in the first two Redex trials and
was an official in Darwin during the third
trial.
• •
Norman Tiptaft, special correspondent
of the Birmingham “Mail” and “Post,”
was given a bad steer on arrival in Aus-
tralia by being booked into a Barrier
Reef resort in January! He has been
a little critical —not without reason—
ever since. Tiptaft, an alert, businesslike


journalist who travels with his equally
alert wife, is also a lecturer, and indeed,
a man of many parts. He was Lord
Mayor of Birmingham in 1941-42.
Before that he was managing-director of
a silverware factory, travelling the
world marketing its products, until
1935, when he became interested in
politics. During War II he became
chairman of the Birmingham civil-
defence committee, and was on the job
during 90 air-raids. In 1944 he went to
the Middle East to tell the troops some-
thing about the conditions they would
return to in Britain. His first lecture-
tour of U.S.A. and Canada followed in
1948.'
Tiptaft is unhesitatingly Right-wing
in politics, and is critical of much that he
sees in the British Commonwealth today,
but his outspokenness and common-
sense are refreshing in a world of
“jumpy” thinking on political issues.
• •
Among passengers on the Monterey,
Professor Phillip Earl Neale, Professor of
Animal Husbandry at the State College,
New Mexico, Fulbright visitor to the
N.S.W. University of Technology, where
he will be working with the School of
Wool Technology.
With a background of 25 years’ experi-
ence with wool and breeding flocks in the
western U.S., Professor Neale is chair-
man of the Western Regional Wool
Marketing Project for the 11 western
States. The New Mexico Sheep Breeding
Programme is recognised as one of the
best, but Professor Neale doesn’t claim
that they have all the answers. In addition
to his lectures, Professor Neale plans to
study Australian methods of grading,
marketing and growing wool.
As livestock specialist for the Food and
Agriculture Organisation of the United
Nations, Professor Neale went on a
mission to Egypt, Lebanon, Syria and Irak
in 1947-48. Two years later he surveyed
the sheep industry in Ecuador, and in
1955 spent three months on a survey of
the sheep and livestock of Pakistan.
• •
Another interesting visitor to Aus-
tralia—Raul S. Manglapus, from the
Philippines, here on a 17-day visit at the
invitation of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. Manglapus, who was formerly
Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, is
president of the Philippines Cultural
Foundation. He was sentenced to death
for his anti-Japanese activities in 1943, but
escaped and joined the guerrilla forces
the following year. He is now only 39,
but has had a varied career —as college
professor, lawyer, journalist and radio-
commentator ; he is also well known for
his services to the Catholic Church.
• •
John Brennan: Good-bye, Bill Gill,
Bulletin joke-artist and pre-war New
Guinea identity. Last Sunday the
[Volunteer Coastal Patrol scattered his
ashes at sea off Broken Bay. It was
what Bill would have liked.
He was with boats off the rugged
coasts of his native Scotland from the
time he was a young lad; then he went
a-wandering to cast-up in New Guinea
at 21, in 1922. Shortly, after spells as
manager, he had a rubber-plantation at
Loani on the mainland near Samarai;
and shortly, untrained, he began to send
his drawings of somewhat glamorised
Papuan belles to The Bulletin. They
came regularly till the war, were forgotten
then, but began to reappear a few months
ago.
During the war Bill was with the
Army’s Water Transport units, in
command of the tiny Rasputin, carrying
troops, supplies, a little bit of everything ;
then with Angau. He came out of it fed
up with New Guinea.
Bill himself was as shy as his Papuan
lasses were forward. Both he and they
will be missed.
• •
Antony Whitlock (herewith), managing-
editor of the “Financial Review,” leaves
Sydney in May to become managing-
editor of the Hawkes Bay (N.Z.) “Herald-
Tribune,” which was founded by his
MAN A GING-EDITOR
grandfather in 1910. It’s going home in a
double, or maybe a triple, sense: apart
from the fact that he’s a New Zealander,
and close family associations with the
“Herald-Tribune,” it’s a return to daily-
newspaper life for Whitlock, who has
been running the (weekly) “Financial
Review” since March last year.
Whitlock’s rise in the Fairfax outfit
was fairly rapid. He joined “S.M-H.” in
1945, after distinguished service with the
N.Z.E.F. —he hadn’t completed his cadet-
ship in N.Z. when War II started —
was soon given a war-correspondent
chore, and was chief-of-staff at the age
of 29; held down that job for six years,
was then sent to London, and came back
to take on managerial duties at the
“Herald,” before becoming managing-
editor of the “Financial Review.”
Rather surprisingly, perhaps, for a
man in the top job on a financial paper,
he has had no special financial training;
but that, one imagines, would be more
than balanced by news-sense, of which
there has been plenty of evidence in the
“Financial Review” since he took-over.
Whitlock is looking forward to some
good skiing in New Zealand, but doesn’t
fish or golf and will probably have to get
used to talking Rugby Union again
apart from seeing the All Blacks play, he
has rather lost touch with that New
Zealand passion since he has been here.
His wife is Australian —daughter of Eric
Bedford and granddaughter of Randolph.
• •
Currently on a goodwill tour of the
company’s branches in Australasia, Sir
Cullum Welch, a director of C. C. Wake-
field and Co., Ltd., a gregarious, well-
groomed, charming Londoner, one of the
best-known men in the City and still, at
62, an Army type. He is an off-time
colonel, and looks it.
Lord Mayor of the City of London
in 1956-57, he has been associated with
the corporation since 1931, and became
a life alderman in 1947. He got £15,000
a year as L.M. but admits he had to dip
into his own pocket, like Lord Mayors the
world over, to pay the tradesmen and
drink-waiters before his year was out.
He is a member of many of the com-
panies, and one of the leaders of the
Law Society. In War I he won the
Military Cross, and he commanded a
Home Guard ack-ack regiment in War 11.
• •
Pat Lawlor: The name and fame of
Charles Innes have spread far beyond
his bookshop in Lambton Quay,
Wellington (N.Z.). If you bought a book
from Charles you felt a sort of glow, as
though you had negotiated an overdraft,
on unexpectedly favorable terms, with
some banker of rare understanding and
tact. He looks like a banker, too —a
banker of books. Having reached the
four-score he is now retiring. He will
be missed.
• •
Lipton’s, about to expand in the Aus-
tralian tea market, has appointed Alex
F. MacKelden its new general-manager.
He has the form in the food business.
A Londoner, he was with Symington’s,
one of the largest (in soups and custards)
manufacturers in Europe, and he carno
to Australia two years ago to join
Trufood. He spent the war in the British
Army, collected the MC. in Italy, and a
chest wound at the Anzio beachhead that
has kept him off the sports-field ever since.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 63, Arthur Richard Bow-
man, chairman of directors of Associated News-
agents’ Co-operative, Ltd., and president of the
Newsagents’ Association.
In Adelaide, Leo O’Leary, secretary and
manager of the Oakbank Brewery for over
50 years.
In Brisbane, at 77, John Thornton Gray, for
many years Government roundsman on the
“Courier-Mail.”
In Sydney, at 79, Captain R. W. Miller, well-
known colliery-proprietor, shipowner, brewer
and businessman.
In Brisbane, at 52, well-known architect Major
Thomas Gibson Mac Minn. President of Bris-
bane United Services Club.


ABORIGINALITIES
CJEVERAL of us were swapping lies
when someone mentioned “Gravel-
snatcher’s” joey (B. 18/12/’57) eating
grubs out of dead grass-trees (more olten
called blackboys). A New Australian
joined the group just in time to hear,
“Perhaps kangaroos like their dead black-
boys predigested.” That recdly took
explaining.—“Wommadoo.”
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: “Eureka’s” peculiar
bushfire that swept harmlessly through
the foundations of a wooden house (B.
29/1/’5B) may have met a peculiar wood
—N.S.W. turpentine. As an innocent
"Grasshoppers ain't as bad as last year , Ben."
A BUSH PICNIC
T GOT a job on Nangus Station on the
Murrumbidgee felling trees and lopping
limbs to feed sheep.
The first night the boss took me down
to the hut I was going to share with old
Paddy Jackson. We sat down to supper
and I cut myself a slice of damper.
“Here! You’re into Thursday first
cut!” said Paddy. Then he showed me
how the damper was marked in sections,
one for each day of the week. He baked
only once a week, on Sundays.
One day I was helping draft some
sheep. Farmers had come from all
around the district in their spring-carts
to take home any sheep that had got out
of their paddocks into the station
paddock.
1 overheard two farmers talking.
“Are you going to the picnic
a-Sunday?” asked one.
“No,” said the other. “I’ve got picnic
enough at home with my sheep.”
When I was a little boy I had often
heard my mother and other women talk-
ing about picnics, but I had never seen
one. So I asked the man where the
picnic was going to be, and he told me
it would be in the church paddock. When
the day’s work was over I asked the boss
if I could go.
“It’vnot worth going to,” he said.
I said, “I’ve never seen one.”
He said, “You’ll never want to see
another.”
I thought to myself, “What you
wouldn’t like to see, I would.”
Then he said I could go if I liked.
My clothes consisted of two Crimean
shirts, two pairs of moleskin trousers,
two pairs of boots, an old slouch-hat
and two handkerchiefs, one with a green
border and one with red.
The night before the picnic I greased
my boots well, got half a bar of soap
and went down to the waterhole where I
had washed my other pair of trousers and
shirt and my two handkerchiefs two
nights before and had them nice and
dry. Then I washed myself for about
half-an-hour, rubbing the soap all over
my body and diving into the waterhole
each time. I went back to the hut and
dressed myself and put one of the
handkerchiefs round my neck.
I went to old Paddy’s bunk and woke
him up.
I said, “How do I look?”
“You look all right,” he said.
I said, “Wait a bit till I put the other
handkerchief on.”
I took off the red-bordered handker-
chief and put the green-bordered one
around my neck.
“That’s better,” he said. “Wear that
one.”
Next morning I got up and rode out
to where the picnic was to be. I got there
Lance Skuthorpe, Senior, rough-rider,
showman and writer, passed on in
Sydney the other day at the good age of
87. A legend in his own lifetime—for a
£lOO bet he repeated Adam Lindsay
Gordon’s leap at Mount Gambier
(S.A-); for a £lOOO bet he rode the
famous Bobs to a standstill; and he was
specially engaged for two exhibitions
of riding buckjumpers for the late King
George V —he was also a natural story-
teller and often filled-in between acts of
his “Wild West” show with tales, part-
fantasy, part-fact. He was an old-time
“Bulletin” contributor, and his “The
Champion Bullock Driver” became one
of the best-known Australian tall
stories. The story on this page is one
of several which a daughter, Mrs. G.
Laver, brought into “The Bulletin”
shortly before he died.
about sunrise. I put my horse in the
church paddock and waited. About
two-o’clock a few old people drove up in
an old spring-cart and a few old people
in an old buggy, and then a few young
men and women raced up on horseback.
I suppose when they were all counted
there would be about 25 people there.
They started to make little fires and
boil their billycans. I was sitting on a
stump that had been sawn down years
ago. I sat there like as if I was a crow.
Nobody spoke to me. Nobody took
any notice of me.
Presently a lady gathered a lot of
leaves and bushes pretty close to the
stump. Then she leaned down and struck
a match to set fire to the bushes and
sticks. The flame went up nearly as
high as her, and just as she went to rise
the wind blew her dress right over her
head, and it was flapping up in the air.
I was down off the stump, had her dress
down and was back on the stump before
anyone knew what had happened.
But the young women appeared to
think I was very cheeky and kept looking
at me out of the corner of their eyes.
Anyhow, I stopped there till they all went
away. Nobody asked me to have a cup
of tea or anything to eat. That morning
I had left home without any breakfast,
thinking I’d have too much to eat at the
picnic. When I got back Paddy had
made a damper and cooked a little
shoulder of mutton. I ate the lot.
I had to start work about seven-o’clock
the next morning. I had no breakfast
and there was nothing left for the old
man. I went up to the homestead where
I had to cut wood before I went out to
cut bushes for the sheep. The boss came
out and asked me how I got on at the
picnic and I told him.
“The worst of it is,” I said, “I ate
all the food there was and there’s none
for Paddy’s breakfast and I’ve had none
myself.”
So he said, “Come and have some with
me. Now tell the missus how you got on
at the picnic.”
And I repeated the story to her.
He told me I needn’t go out cutting
bushes for the sheep that day, and that
I’d better take my old mate down some
breakfast, and to come up and get some
dinner and supper for us both.
It was the first picnic I’d ever been at,
but I didn’t want to see any more.
LANCE SHUTHORPE.


M
(JOS T An* Amplifier. } /VWPAM.
T«g People Ar the enp op
the Queue can’t hear. fh£
OiRJc-CT ■ ORjOAPCA€T. "


“If that's the Way of it I'll have my ring back again!"
Victorian I once acquired a load of dry
pile-ends of this Syncarpia to cheer my
winter evenings, and they proved the
best fire-extinguishers I ever used. Native
cherry ( Exocarpus ) is almost unburnable,
but is reputed to smoulder if green. Baker
and Smith tabulate river-box (Euc.
fletcheri) as Australia’s top fire-resister.
* * * *
“Wommadoo”: Presumably “B.A.K.’s”
Ah Chee (B. 22/1/’5B) planed, and slid,
in the same direction as the grain of the
wood, not against it—thus avoiding
splinters. As for pushing a saw, teeth
pointing away from the sawyer, either
that’s the usual way of doing it or I’m
a Chinaman.
* * * *
“Tom Trout”: While a tiny trickle of
human migration from the Antipodes to
Europe has been taking place, a vaster,
more silent —in fact, underwater —inva-
sion of the shores of the old world has
been in process. Apparently helped by
the swift movement of ships during the
war. Elminius modestus, a barnacle
formerly living only in Australian and
New Zealand waters, is now domesticated
along the coasts of Great Britain,
Holland, Belgium and France. It finds
the Old Dart so much to its liking that
it is already nearly the commonest
barnacle along the south coast.
“Gravelsnatcher”: Researchers who
camped for a night with some natives in
a refrigerator marvelled at the aborigines’
ability to sleep through the cold while
they themselves shivered all night; and
they seem to have assumed that the abos.
are insensible to cold. They might as well
argue that they’re insensible to heat, and
they’d have a good case in the number
of instances of natives rolling into fires
and being badly burnt without waking
up. As against that I’ve watched
corroborees where, when a dancing native
inadvertently treads on a live coal, he
springs as high and wails as loud as a
white man would. The researchers may
miss the point that when a native sleeps
he’s really dead to the world. For one
thing, as long as his belly’s full he hasn’t
a worry on his mind, and for another
he’s living pretty close to Nature, and the
old Dame knows the value of a mild
anaesthetic on a desert night.
* * *
“Fair Mac”: Grabbing at prawns in
the pocket of the drag-net, rny mate put
his hand on a fortescue and was stung
on the middle-finger. Knowing the repu-
tation of the little fish’s sting, I wanted
to apply a ligature immediately and
scarify the wound, but the victim insisted
that, although the pain was pretty severe,
it did not feel like a really dangerous
sting. For about two hours he went on
with the prawning, although obviously
enduring pain ; then he announced that
the sting was becoming less painful.
Another hour and the pain had vanished
completely, leaving no after-effects what-
soever. So much for a favorite horror-
yarn of fishermen. Now I’m wondering
how authentic some of the others are.
Is there any verified record, for instance,
of a sting from a saltwater catfish having
sent a man insane? Or of a man dying
as the result of a sting from a ’ray?
* * * *•
“Manamoi”: A bushman’s hat, besides
keeping his brains cool, may be used for
fanning campfires, beating them out
when they look like getting away, grasp-
ing hot branding-irons, trying-out ear-
marking pliers on the brim of, flogging
reluctant sheep up a race, giving a dog a
drink out of the dented-in crown, beating
a bucking horse down the shoulder,
throwing in the face of a charging cow
while taking evasive action, or relieving
the feelings by jumping on. The more dis-
reputable and odoriferous a hat gets, the
more its owner loves it, and the less his
wife does. When our friends the Browns
returned from a swim to find their house
a heap of ashes, Bill Brown's loudest
lament was “I haven’t even got a hat.”
Suddenly he rushed off to the orchard, to
return, beaming, with his most cherished
cady, which his wife had put on the
scarecrow.
* * * *
“Bass”: Were “Flight's” frogs which
appeared on the claypan after heavy
infrequent rains (B. 18 /12/’57) some of
the burrowing species? Tve struck the
same thing in the Westralian wheatbelt:
on fencing jobs I’ve come across
plump, healthy frogs a couple of feet
down in hard earth that 1 could barely
chip with a crowbar. They are
burrowers, coming to the surface when
rain softens the soil. They mate, live
well on insects and water-life of the clay-
pans, and burrow down again when the
rains cease. There’s a tremendous frog-
population over a big part of W.A. with
less than lOin. rainfall, and they must
adopt some such method to survive.
THE GIANT
What we see stirring is not god or beast,
Angel or man, but something larger still,
A being whose frame and sprawling
members fill
A continent. Its head lies in the east,
High up where Kosciusko’s blue is
fleeced
With snow, and its left hand trails in our
chill
Antarctic seas. Desert and inland hill
Lead west to feet. Before the snows have
ceased
Its right hand will caress a tropic shore.
What can it not do, this giant, when it
wakes
From its long rest through opal-studded
years?
Well might it dwarf all that has gone
before
When finally it opens its eyes and breaks
From slumber and its true greatness
appears.
S.A.
R. H. MORRISON.


TRAVELLING between Cunnamulla
and St. George (Q.) I noticed what
looked like a tin-dog hanging in a gate-
way. I thought someone had been having
some target-practice, but later learnt it
was put there to guard sheep. Often real
dogs are tied at each side of a gateway
under small bough-shelters, and when the
silly sheep become accustomed to them
tin-dogs are substituted. Anyway, so
they told me. —“Bird.”
* * * *
“Maitri”: A grove of trees by the road-
side in an N.S.W. rural district was reputed
to be haunted by the ghost of a swaggie
who'd been murdered there. Riding past
the place before dawn on their way home
from a dance two young farmers nearly
jumped out of their skins when they
heard first a piercing whistle and then
what they took for an unearthly voice
shouting, “What are you doing out so
late, mates?” They were quite sure it
was the ghost and, whipping up their
steeds, they went for the lick of their
lives. In his fear and excitement one
fell off his horse and his despairing cry
to his mate rang-out through the night,
“Tell them at home how I died, Bill!”
Both Bill and the “ghost” (who turned-
out to be a local inhabitant engaged on
a not-so-lawful occasion) weren’t back-
ward in broadcasting the fallen rider’s
“last” words, which so amused the com-
munity that they became a catchcry
throughout the neighborhood. That
happened nearly 70 years ago, and when,
the other day, I heard a small boy come
out with the time-honored phrase as,
arms folded, he rode-off on his pushbike,
I wasn’t surprised to leam he’d never
even heard of the saga.
»:•***
“Mackville”: We old hands were dis-
cussing how some of the young-’uns,
brought up in a post-war world of walk-
out-of-one-job-and-into-another, would
make out if they struck really tough
times and had to battle for a feed. “But
always they could eat mutton, yes?”
the New Australian said in a puzzled
kind of voice. We ourselves were puzzled
until he explained that in Australia, so
German potential migrants were told,
anyone could kill a sheep for food pro-
vided he left its skin hanging on the
fence. He took some convincing that,
although we had heard our grandfathers
declare that some stations had been so
philanthropically minded, we didn’t know
a quicker way of lobbing in quod.
"SHOPS" AND "STORES"
TN the horsedrawn days visitors to our
■*- outback homestead seldom failed to
remark on its resemblance to a township,
particularly when hearing references to
“the store” and various “shops.”
The “store” lived up to its name. Over
its counter one could buy a postage-
stamp or a ton of flour ; bolts and rivets,
working-clothes and -boots, or clay-pipes,
beloved by boundary-riders, aborigines
and bubble-blowing children ; Christmas-
cakes and -puddings (in tins), a wide
variety of groceries, saddlery, potatoes,
onions and pumpkins. Tea came in large
cases lined with lead-foil which was
melted down and moulded into home-
made rifle-bullets. Several months’
supplies were kept in reserve, to tide the
station over the periods when the horse-
anc j bullock-wagons, which brought all
goods from the railhead, were held up
by wet weather. Perishables, such as
butter, eggs and vegetables, were home-
grown.
The “shops” were workshops of
various tradesmen. The carpenter’s shop
was cluttered with tools, nails, lengths of
timber, sheets of iron and many part-
used pots of paint. The carpenter could,
and did, build anything from a hencoop
to a house. He was also a rough cabinet-
maker and joiner, whose furniture made
up in durability what it lacked in finish.
A baby’s cot of his making might need
two men to move it, but would outlast
generations of babies. “Chips” was some-
times called on to make a coffin, which
would be lowered into one of those
railed-off but unmarked graves which are
such a feature of the back country.
The butcher’s shop had a thatched,
low-eaved roof and fly-wire walls for
“He’s a lazy , good-for-nothing loafer —don't go with him!”
coolness. Carcasses of bullocks or sheep
were b roU gh t f ro m the slaughter-pen to be
cut up anc j hung. In hot weather meat
might become tainted within 24 hours,
an y cuts unlikely to be cooked within
fjj a t time were dry-salted or put into
pickling-casks.
xhe w i n dmill-expert’s shop was
surrounded by piles of bore-casing, and
contained enough spare parts to build two
or three complete windmills, plus gas-
fittings and bits of steam-engines. The
expert was in charge of the station’s
gaslight-plant, which once blew up in his
face. He also “drove” the big steam-
engine in the shearing-shed and the
smaller portable model used for pumping.
The tall chimney on the portable job was
hinged so that, when travelling, it could
be laid flat on brackets mounted on top
of the engine. Rolling along bush tracks
on its high iron wheels, drawn by several
horses, the engine was an incongruous
sight.
The saddler’s shop was occupied
periodically by an itinerant tradesman for
whom repair jobs were saved. He
counterlined saddles, made or repaired
sets of harness, stuffed horse-collars,
plaited greenhide ropes and whips and
repaired boots and shoes, horse-rugs and
canvas water-bags.
Most interesting of all was the black-
smith’s shop, with its big double-doors
through which a vehicle and team of
horses could be driven. Here an ecstatic
child might turn the bellows-handle till
the forge roared and sparks flew, while
the hammer rang on the anvil and hot
iron sizzled in the cooling-bucket. In
an atmosphere of coke-dust and singed
hoofs, horse-shoes were made and fitted,
gate-hinges and bullock-bows shaped,
iron tyres “cut and shut” and shrunk on
to wagon- or buggy-wheels,
With the advent of the motor-age and
the cutting-up of large holdings the
station-staff was reduced and tradesmen
no longer employed—but they are still
sadly missed when repairs are needed in
a hurry.
MARGARET LORRAINE.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
Output and the Premiers
ALTHOUGH total employ-
ment at the end of
November was only 10,400
greater than at the end of
June, 1957, it is worth noting
that output of most industrial
products rose during that
period (compared with the
same months of the preceding
year)—by 11.9 p.c. in the case
of pig-iron, 14.7 p.c. in the
instance of ingot-steel, 8.4 p.c.
in electricity output, 4.7 p.c.
Portland cement, 0.2 p.c. black
coal, 16.6 p.c. fractional-horse-
power motors, 6.8 p.c. cotton-
yarns, and 12.3 p.c. woollen
yarns. Worsteds, brown coal,
refrigerators and radios were
down.
These increases in output —
and presumably in consump-
tion—occurred during a period
when unemployment reached a
peak of 58,853 (on December
31).
They also occurred at a
time of homebuilding slack-
ness. Wool prices, too,
declined fairly heavily, and
drought was abroad in the
land.
On the other hand, new
buildings (other than houses
and flats) have been going up
at an unprecedented rate. And
now, in February, 1958, the
price of wool is recovering,
though the greater part of the
clip has been sold. There has
been good rain along the
eastern coast.
In consonance with increased
productivity, prices of goods
principally home - produced
fell by 4.2 p.c. during July-
November, while prices of
imported goods rose slightly.
Textiles, metals and coals,
building-materials and food-
stuffs were the items to drop
most in cost and price.
At the Loan Council meet-
ing in Canberra last week the
Commonwealth Government
gave the States a £5-million
special grant to assist their
general financial position and
to counter unemployment. It
also authorised an increase in
semi - government borrowing
by £3 million ; of the £B-million
total, N.S.W. is to get £3
million.
The Commonwealth
Government apparently does
not intend to attempt to stimu-
late re-employment by much
greater public spending;
suggestions after the conference
were to the effect that there
would be some relaxation of
credit-restrictions in order to
permit private enterprise to
take-up the employment slack
if it could see opportunities to
employ both money and man-
power profitably.
In addition to special
assistance, tax-reimbursements
to the States have increased by
£l6 million, and total Budget
provision for reimbursement
to the States, including this, is
£23 million greater than last
year.
Altogether, the State
Governments haven’t done
badly.
C.B.S. Hire-purchase
A LREADY well in the field
*** with a savings-bank, the
Commercial Banking Co. of
“Here is an urgent message just received."
Sydney, Ltd., is the last of the
trading-banks to enter the hire-
purchase business.
(The ’Wales is associated
with Australian Guarantee
Corp., the National with
Custom Credit Corp., the
A.N.Z. with Industrial Accep-
tance, the E., S. and A. with
Esanda, the Commercial of
Australia with General Credits,
and the Bank of Adelaide with
the Finance Corporation of
Australia.)
The C.B.S. is forming an
entirely new hire-purchase co.,
which will be called Com-
mercial and General Finance,
Ltd. The bank will own 40
p.c. of the capital, and the
remaining 60 p.c. will be
offered for public subscription.
The chairman of the C. 8.5.,
Sir Edward Knox, said that
the services the new co. would
provide were complementary to
banking, and the bank’s
interest in the new venture
would not affect its willingness
or capacity to meet normal
banking requirements.
It has been announced that
the issue of shares to the
public will be underwritten by
lan Potter and Co., of Mel-
bourne, but nothing has been
said of any priority to be
granted to present shareholders
in the C.B.S. when applica-
tions are being received for
the new shares.
The Sydney Stock Exchange
has taken all its banking
business away from the C.B.S.
because a Melbourne firm of
sharebrokers has been given
the underwriting contract.
But the C.B.S. is by no means
exclusively a Sydney bank. In
1927 it took-over the Bank of
Victoria, and is, of course,
present in strength throughout
the Commonwealth in the
shape of around 400 branches.
Underwriting in Melbourne,
also, has become almost a
tradition where large amounts
of finance are being handled.
Issues by Waltons-Sears,
Bradford Cotton and Felt and
Textiles, all Sydney concerns,
have recently been underwritten
in Melbourne. The Sydney
“Herald” float was also under-
written by Potters.
The size of the capital-issue,
as well as other details of the
new C.B.S. flotation, are not
yet available.
LNC and Volkswagen
■pOLLOWING the announce-
-*■ ment that it had been put
down for a 12£ p.c. interest
in the new co. to manufacture
Volkswagen motor-vehicles in
Australia, LNC Industries,
Ltd., distributors of Volks-
wagen and Rover in N.S.W.,
has offered its shareholders an
issue of 1,951,420 new ss.
shares at a premium of Is. 3d.
The issue is in the ratio of
five-for-four, and will raise
paid-up ordinary capital by
£487,855 to £878,138, and will
bring-in £121,964 of share-
premiums.
In addition to meeting the
co.’s commitments with regard
to the new Volkswagen-manu-
facturing enterprise, proceeds
of the issue will be used to
cover building costs and
branch-expansion.
On the more-than-doubled
capital directors believe that a
20 p.c. div. can be paid, com-
pared with 12\ p.c. last term,
when earnings represented 57
p.c. on present capital.
LNC ran into the big money
in 1954-55, and in the 1956-57
term, in spite of severe import-
restrictions, which affected
Rover and Land / Rover imports
particularly, it made a record
consolidated profit of £218,195.
Capital grew from £210,000
at June 30, 1954, to £420,283
three years later by a bonus-
issue of £47,992 and two cash-
issues. (At each date there was
£30,000 in 5 p.c. piefs.) There
have been three bonus-issues
since the co. was listed in
1949—0ne-for-three, one-for-
two and one-for-five.
A greater proportion of the
Volkswagen will, under the
new arrangements, eventually
be built in Australia, thus over-
coming import difficulties.
Already plans are under way
to manufacture the Land/
Rover entirely in Australia.
LNC is certainly sitting
pretty in the N.S.W. motor-
distribution business. It has,
in the Volkswagen and Rover
franchises, solid, quick-selling
lines, and the decision to manu-
facture Volkswagen entirely in
the Commonwealth should
increase its popularity.
(The principal distribution
is carried on by LNC’s sub-
sidiaries, Grenville Motors,


:s s
;< U
Will
Your Business
“die” with you?
What assurance have you that the business you have
built throughout a lifetime will continue to function
without dislocation and to the advantage of your
beneficiaries after your death?
Your appointment of Union Trustee as Executor,
Trustee, Manager or Attorney would ensure sound
administration of your affairs —impartially and
permanently—at moderate cost —and safeguard the
future of your Estate.
Write or ’phone for an appointment to discuss our
service, and obtain a copy of the explanatory
booklet, “Important Facts Concerning Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
VHI
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITS!
(lM*ip*nt*4 la Victoria) I«ubll«ked HUM
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE! AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Norman J. Carson,
C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton. General Manager:
John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams. Resident Officer
for Northern Victoria and Riverina: S. L. G. MacDonald,
Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.;
Bertram J. F. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N.
Mathieson. Manager: A. B. Tilemann. Assistant Manager:
A. G. W. Dent. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
District Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Bvrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. ©. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst,
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at TownsviUe, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT2S
Ltd., and Lanock Motors,
Ltd.)
At June 30 last the net
tangible asset backing of LNC
ss. ord. shares was just under
16s. On the basis of last week’s
price for the ords. (cum
rights) of 18s., the purchaser
would receive a yield of 8.7
p.c. on the basis of an ex-
rights price of 11s. 7d.
Optical Industries, Ltd.
SHAREHOLDERS on the
register of Optical Indus-
tries, Ltd., which has its head-
quarters in Sydney, on March
26 will be offered a one-for-five
issue of ord. shares at par. The
issue will involve 153,506 shares
of 10s. each, and will raise paid
capital to £460,515.
In a review of the co. in B.
27 /11 / ’57 it was said that “so
far expansion has imposed no
real strain on finances. Last
year’s net addition of £56,415
to fixed assets was largely met
from ploughed-back profits,
and additions to stocks were
only £13,483. Another year as
profitable as last, with an
unchanged dividend, would
again provide over £50,000 of
internal finance for develop-
ment and expansion. But, judg-
ing by chairman Lane’s
remarks, ploughed-back profits
are not expected to be enough
to meet the outlay on the sort
of expansion that the co. has
in mind in the near future.”
Although great emphasis has
been placed in recent years on
the spread of distribution-
centres, the money now being
asked for seems to be wanted
mostly for modernisation and
development on the manufac-
turing side and for the
establishment of suitable
premises in some capital cities.
At last balance-day the co.
had 38 branches —24 in N.S.W.,
nine in Victoria, two in Queens-
land, two in S.A. and one in
Perth (W.A.).
Its manufacturing cos. are
O.P.S.M. Laboratories Pty.,
Ltd., Spectacle Makers Pty.,
Ltd. (both of Sydney), O.P.S.M.
Laboratories Pty., Ltd. (Mel-
bourne), and O.P.S.M.
Laboratories Pty., Ltd.
(Brisbane).
The chief operating concern
is Optical Prescriptions
Spectacle-makers Pty., Ltd. The
organisation manufactures
spectacles and makes-up optical
prescriptions. It has its own
lens-manufacturing and frame-
making companies, and con-
trols a wide distribution to the
public through branches.
Manufacturing is principally
carried out in Sydney, but there
are subsidiaries also in Mel-
bourne and Brisbane.
Net profit for 1956-57 was
£92,011, and equal to just under
24 p.c. on capital. The 10 p.c.
div. was repeated very
comfortably.
Sales during the half-year to
December 31 were up 8 p.c. on
the same half of 1956-57.
At 19s. each, cum rights, the
£X-rights price of the 10s.
shares is 17s. 6d., giving the
rights a theoretical value of
7s. 6d. At 17s. 6d. the yield
would be 5.7 p.c. from a con-
tinued 10 p.c. div.
Electronic Industries, Ltd.
AN issue of 1,350,000 B ord.
of 10s. each at par by
Electronic Industries, Ltd.,
Melbourne, will be in the ratio
of one for every three A or
B ords. held, and will take
paid ordinary capital up to
approximately £2,700,000, in
addition to which there is
£346,329 of pref. capital.
The ord. capital, after the
issue, will be comprised
roughly of 1,722,500 A ords.
and 3,670,000 B ords. (Holders
of the B ords. are entitled to
vote only in the case of reduc-
tion of capital, winding-up,
sale, or on matters affecting
their rights should the div.-
rate fall below 5 p.c.)
Sir Arthur Warner is the
controlling hand behind Elec-
tronic, and he has been a
controversial character, politi-
cally and otherwise. But his
shareholders have done very
well, whether A or B in class.
In the 1956-57 term net
earnings, after adequate pro-
vision for taxation, were equal
to 23i p.c. on all ord. capital,
and the 12i p.c. div. that has
been a regular feature for years
past was repeated without
difficulty. (As an indication of
the financing, there is in the
accounts a “reserve —excess
depreciation tax paid,” of
£199,394 at June 30, 1957.)
Visible reserves were
about equal to ordinary
capital at last balance-day.
In announcing the new issue
of shares, Electronic stated
that profit for the half-year to
December 31 was a record,
mainly because of increased
turnover in Astor television-
receivers.
Electronic Industries has
been assisted in its expan-
sion by the acquisition of
other businesses. Last take-
over was Allied Bruce Small,
Ltd., in the 1956-57 term.
The 10s. shares have recently
been quoted around 295.
A.P.M. 7 p.c. Notes
pOLLOWING favorable
reports from the Tariff
Board and elsewhere, Aus-
tralian Paper Manufacturers’
issue of 7 p.c. convertible £1
notes should be snapped-up by
those entitled to them.
The issue will be to an
amount of £1,400,000, and it
will be offered in the ratio of
one-for-10 to present ord.-
shareholders ; an amount of
£50,000 will be reserved for
employees.
The notes will be auto-
matically converted into ord.
shares at par within three years.
In the meantime, the 7 p.c.,
while satisfactory to the


you tell a ‘big 9
Scotch from a
6 small 9 Scotch?
We don’t mean the differ-
ence between a double and
a single. We mean the dif-
ference between the ordin-
ary run of whiskies—and a
masterpiece such as
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
We of Bell’s are independ-
ent distillers. The output
is not huge, but to those
who know it, it is very,
very precious. Try Bell’s
Old Scotch Whisky—and
you will acknowledge its
magic mastery.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur Bell A Sons Ltd., Distillers,
Perth, Scotland. Established 1825
m '*fyr*y*
BELLS
fycotc/i WL
WOXSCOTCH
OISTIILEO ANP
\IN ‘SCOTIAN®
'W&vJSdt'^.L J
O 'STILLERS"*™SCpT^
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/
Yearly Subscription .. 22 / 6
investor, will be allowable as
a tax-deduction to the com-
pany. At the end of three
years the effect of the borrow-
ing should be visible in produc-
tion and profits, and the loan
should comparatively easily be
absorbed into capital.
A.P.M. has been paying
8 p.c. on its ord. capital, of
which there is an issue of
£13,500,000. Its shares have
recently been selling at 28s. 6d.
Export Guarantees
"P XPORT - PAYMENTS in-
surance being transacted
by the new Commonwealth
Government offshoot, Exports
Payment Insurance Corpora-
tion, resulted in cover to the
extent of £2.3 million being
written in the quarter to Sept.
30 last (the initial period of
underwriting) and £4.6 million
during the quarter to Dec. 31.
Wool, both raw and pro-
cessed, accounts for more than
half the exports covered.
Timber, meat and foodstuffs,
and manufactures, including
pharmaceuticals, earthmoving
equipment and heavy rolling-
stock, make up most of the
balance. More than 50 over-
seas markets are included in the
cover so far underwritten.
As explained in B. 22 /1 / ’5B,
E.P.I.C. aims to encourage
trade with overseas countries
by protecting exporters against
the risks of loss arising from
non-payment of their overseas
accounts.
Export-payments insurance,
by reducing the risk to the
exporter, also allows more
business to be transacted
against existing capital without
overtrading.
Oil-subsidy Allotment
[From L. Owen]
A CCORDING to details of
the allotment of the
Federal oil-subsidy, every
company at present operating
on the Australian mainland or
in Papua has been subsidised
—irrespective of technical
know-how or past record.
Although it is not necessary
for their survival, none will
begrudge the major companies
Wapet and Australasian
Petroleum —the rather insignifi-
cant contribution to their
magnificent efforts to strike
indigenous petroleum, but it is
doubtful whether any amount
which the Government could
legitimately afford for the
purpose could materially step-
up their operations. As far as
the minor operators are con-
cerned, the subsidy, as in the
past, merely means throwing
good money after bad.
It is to be hoped, however,
that the major organisations
will use the extra money, now
available without drawing on
their own reserves, to under-
take work not figured in their
pre-subsidy programmes, or to
extend surveys of areas which
they otherwise propose to
abandon.
In either case, it would be
merely wishful-thinking to
expect a repetition of the
“miracle” of 1953 to boost-up
investment. The chances of
such repetition within a period
of five years—or even within
a decade —are so remote as
to be negligible.
The public which —by virtue
of the subsidy becomes an
involuntary shareholder in
six oil companies of very vary-
ing quality, should rightfully
demand far more informative
reports than have been issued
of late.
It would have been far better,
of course, to devote the funds
made available for the subsidy
to an attempt to solve the
problem of oil-migration in
Australia. C.5.1.R.0., suitably
advised, could well undertake
such work.
New Ford Factory
■pORD began work on their
new £ 11-million factory at
Broadmeadows, an outer,
northern Melbourne suburb,
last week. The new plant will
employ 2750, who will
assemble 200 vehicles daily, as
well as tractors and trucks,
and the new all-Australian
Ford, which will probably be
very close to the popular
Zephyr.
Ford also is providing
another £7.5 million for exten-
sions to the great plant at
Geelong, the biggest Victorian
provincial centre, which is now
sitting more placidly around
Corio Bay after some shakes
when the Broadmeadows plant
was announced.
Oil from Coal
[From “Old Opencut”]
HTHE world’s largest oil-from-
coal plant has recently
completed its first year in
operation.
Located in South Africa, near
Johannesburg, on a low-grade
black-coal deposit, it is at
present producing 400 barrels
each day.
The installed capacity of the
plant is 10,000 barrels a day.
Production to this figure will
be achieved early in 1958 with
the full development and
mechanisation of the coal-seam.
The present “running-in” out-
put supplies a seventh of the
Union’s petrol demand.
The refinery turns-out a 92-
octane petrol. This retails at a
penny a gallon less than the
regular grades of the overseas
suppliers.
In addition to petrol the plant
is producing ammonium-
sulphate, benzol, diesel fuel-
oil, toluol, crude phenols,
creosotes and a top-quality
wax.
The demand for hydrocarbon
chemicals exceeded the rela-
tively large production of these
by-products.
The cost of the plant from
to oil products
was £A29 million. A model
township with all amenities,
services and communications
lifted the total outgoing to
£A4I million.
Progress in this field of
chemical engineering has been
outstanding in the past few
years. Though the establish-
ment-cost is high, operating
charges are low. With full
amortised costs and depreci-
ation charges brought into the
accounts and at a two-fifths
production-rate, the Johannes-
burg plant reached the “break-
even” point before the end of
the term.
The undertaking is owned
and operated by a public
company.
In countries without flow-oil
but with surplus and unsale-
able low-grade coal the project
should be of considerable
interest.
Lobster-tail Exports
T}XPORTS of uncanned
■*-' lobster from Australia to
the U.S.A. amounted to 4.4
million lb. in 1955-56, valued
at $4.3 million —about a dollar
a pound. Australia supplied
almost a tenth of the U.S.
imports in 1955-56. There is a
strong and continuing demand
for seafoods in the U.S.A.


“The abos. talk a lot of rot about bunyips around here”


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Pardon My French”
Ah! Voici la plume de ma
tante (Here is the feather of
my aunt). Ca me ferait bien
pour ecriver mon revue de
“Pardon My French” chez
Sydney Tivoli.
Pardonnez mon Fran?ais. Je
l’ai oooble ooble oublie.
Ou est Philippe? —Philippe
est sous la table.
Mais le Tivoli. Ah, oui, oui!
Voila les spectacles les plus
magnifiques du monde ; voila
les ballets ; voila la musique,
ies chanteurs et les chanteuses ;
voila les acrobatem (that’s what
it’s got in my dictionary); voila
les nues les plus magnifiques de
toutes les nues magnifiques du
monde —les pieds! les jambes!
les yeux! les langues! les what
the heck’s the French for
bosoms —ah, la, la, ravissants,
prodigieueses, com m e les
montagnes!
Ou est Philippe?
Mais, helas, oil sont leurs
derrieres? Elies ne marchent
pas. Toute la nuit elles
s’asseoient sur leurs plus belles
derrieres. Quel malheur! La
tante du jardinier est endormi
Tout le monde est endormi.
Attendez! Quand j’avais 6t6
a Paris moi-meme, au Casino
de Paris, les belles nues —Psst!
Les gendarmes!
Voulez-vous de la poesie
Fran9aise?—
J’aime le son du cor le soir au
fond des bois,
Soit qu’il chante les pleurs de la
biche aux arboirs —
mais non pas les trompettes de
Eagle and Mand. Quel horreur!
N’importe. C’est la guerre.
Ou est Philippe? Philippe est
sous la table. Pourquoi est-il
toujours sous la table? C’est
son habitude.
Mais le Tivoli. Ah, oui,
encore. Voila M. Robins, le
banana-man; et M. Johnny
Lockwood, le comedien
Anglais, oh vairy fonnee; et
M. Larry Griswold, un acro-
batem (it can’t be right)
superbe, mais pourquoi va-t’il
toujours a la la-la? —nous ne
sommes pas des enfants; et
Mme. Anny Berryer, qui
chantait charmante et profonde
et grondement.
Et aussi Medlock et Mar-
lowe, et Winnetou and his
white squaw (Mr. and Mrs.
Svenson a leurs amis) —le
deuxieme acte est meilleur que
le premier acte ; ainsi vive le
Tivoli, vive M. David Martin
qui m’a trouve une chaise pour
la tante du jardinier, et rien
a payer! Vive l’entente
cordiale!
Ou est Philippe? II est sous
la table. Encore? Cherchez la
femme.
Jean Jacques Mac Hoots.
❖ ❖ ❖
Spanish Dancers
Luisillo and his Spanish
Dance Theatre opened at
Sydney Empire with “Sinfonia
Sevillana,” a dance of simple
yet seemingly inexhaustible
patterns, with castinets clutter-
ing like cicadas, by turns som-
nolent, amorous, angry and
imperative, with that sharp
foot-stamping which says even
more—even if it sometimes
sounds like a wall-banging
row between flat-dwelling
neighbors or an “Anything-
you - can - stamp-I-can-stamp-
louder” contest —and with the
haughty tautness of the slim-
waisted male dancers and that
peculiar arrogant voluptuous-
ness of the women —with, in
fact, everything you might
expect or imagine of Spanish
dancers.
And very striking it was, too.
But one had vague misgivings:
Can you fill a whole evening
with that sort of thing?
Luisillo showed that you
could, and even more —in fact,
after each dance, when you
thought you’d seen everything,
he came up with something
better. In the Gypsy dance,
“Gitanos de la Alpujarra,” he
and Teresa Amaya really
demonstrated what you can do
in their idiom, and Miss
Amaya, if she did not, like
Borrow’s Gitana, make one
exclaim, “Ave Maria puris-
sima,” at least brought the
house down.
Then there was “The Blind
Man,” with Luisillo showing
how you can talk, shout, make
love and even whisper with
your feet, and with that beauti-
ful, tender exchange of hands
and arms between him and the
lovely Mercedes Ramos. And
“Ronda Huertana,” the gay
harvest frolic with its sudden
exciting change in tempo and
the dancers breaking into a
frenzy of breathless, unspeak-
able excitement.
That was the first half of the
programme and, like the wise
thrush, Luisillo more-or-less
did it twice over in the second
half so that, particularly in
“Giants and Big Heads” and
“Cafe Flamenco,” one was
amazed again and again by the
grace and precision, the beauty
and dexterity, all inextricably
mingled and wound up to a
speed that seemed quite beyond
the bounds of human effort.
♦> *t* ♦♦♦
Concerto Festival
Gordon Watson, soloist with
the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra under Bernard
Heinze, was at the keyboard
on two occasions at the first
concert of the concerto festival.
He opened with the Liszt No.
2, which, with its fustian, over-
blown romanticism and musi-
cal superficialities, is first and
foremost a showpiece, offering
countless opportunities for the
virtuoso to show-off his best
bravura wares.
Watson proved to be no
shrinking violet in this depart-
ment ; he laid his ears back
and tore into the music with
the greatest gusto. It was no
mere digital dexterity, either —
along with the excitement
engendered by racing and
accurate fingers he retained (in
the central section where they
mostly reside) the work’s best
musical values.
It was in the Beethoven
“Emperor,” however, that
Watson made his real impres-
sion and demonstrated the
dramatic power he can produce
from the piano. His scale-
passage work was crisp and
clean, his trilling pellucid;
and in the depths of the bass
he pulled no emotional
punches. Altogether a satisfy-
ing reading, even if it did lack
that extra touch of a Solomon
or an Arrau which can turn a
performance into the unfor-
gettable. In both concertos
the orchestra gave commen-
dable support.
It did better than that, how-
ever, in the D Major Concerto
for small orchestra, by K. P. E.
Bach (the Steinberg adapta-
tion). Actually this piece is a
miniature symphony, and
clearly foreshadows the form
the symphony was to take in
the hands of Haydn. The two
themes of the first movement,
with their pronouncement,
development and recapitula-
tion, unmistakably point the
way the classic sonata-form
would be applied to the
larger forms by the master of
Esterhazy.
The playing of this work
was on a very high plane, the
peak of it being the final section
of the slow movement —an
essay in delicate upper-string
handling that found Heinze in
his very best form. The play-
ing apparently delighted the
conductor, too, for he led the
acclaim for his forces.
The other item was the
Brahms “Academic Festival”
Overture, briskly-paced, and
with a good, rousing rollick
to the famous drinking-song
which brings it to a close.
In a note to William Prim-
rose, who commissioned the
work, Bela Bartok said of his
Viola Concerto, inter alia,
“Most probably some passages
will prove to be uncomfortable
or unplayable.” That was an
understatement going by the
first performance in Australia,
given at the second festival
concert with Robert Pikler as
soloist. Apart from a brief
spasm of agreeable harmonies
in part of the andante religioso,
the concerto, which doesn’t
lack driving vitality and has
many examples of typical Bar-
tok cleverness, has far too
many periods of grating harsh-
ness and takes too long to say
too little. Pikler, who never
fails to produce a tone of purity
and depth, argued the work’s
merits eloquently but unsuc-
cessfully.
There were two other con-
temporary pieces. Ernest
Bloch’s “Concerto Grosso for
String Orchestra with Piano
Obbligato” is a product of his
third period and a happy
partnership of the old Han-
delian form and modern idiom ;
i: is notable for the mystical
quality of the dirge, the vital
new treatment of old pastoral
dances, and a closing fugue of
poetic splendor. The orchestra
did this work full justice.
The other modern work was
Australian composer Margaret
Sutherland’s “Conoerto for
Strings”—well-integrated writ-
ing which made relaxed and
pleasurable listening.
Telemann’s “Concerto for
Oboe d’Amore and Strings”
had lan Wilson as soloist. The
charm of this 18th-century
work resides in its simplicity
and directness, and in the com-
poser’s unfailing ability to
supply engaging melodies and
rich harmonies. Wilson’s work
was unexceptionable.
The concluding work, how-
ever, was worth all the others


Fatih in Ihc
Future
Ml
»
The growing importance of the Pacific in world
trade is most strikingly illustrated in the interest
now being taken by both Britain and America in
expansion of the Australian tourist industry.
Two big British passenger lines, P. & O. and
Orient, are integrating their Pacific services and
building new super-liners to add to fleets that will
connect Australia, North America and the East.
Matson liners have started to bring in large parties
of American tourists.
Great international airlines, including our own
Oantas, have entered the field. Pan-American
Airways has sent twelve of its executives from
London, Europe and the U.S.A. to “taste” our
tourist potential.
It is recognition of this developing interest that
has brought the representatives of seventeen nations
—Australia among them—to the current conference
of the Pacific Area Travel Association at Santa
Barbara, California.
That is the situation as it is forming. How do
we go out to meet it? First, I think we should tell
ourselves that the value of a strong tourist trade
has to be stated in terms of more than mere revenue:
its true worth is to be found in the inestimable
gains that will come to us through wider human
contacts, through the knowledge visitors will get of
us and of opr country, and their sighting of its
opportunities.
This represents no less than a direct inflow of
capital or spending-power, a moral investment in
Australia —and one to which we ourselves will be
required to make a worthwhile contribution.
Natural attractions, of themselves, will not be
sufficient to a good tourist traffic. They must be
accompanied by standards of accommodation and
service which the tourists have a right to expect—
and which they cheerfully get in countries closer
to home.
At any rate, the greatest opportunity ever
presented to us to develop a national tourist industry
is right before us now; and how we rise to it is
going to be one of the surest tests of our real Faith
in Australia.
put together. This was
Mozart’s enchanting, “Sinfonia
Concertante for Oboe, Clarinet,
Horn and Bassoon and
Orchestra.” With such accom-
plished soloists as Gabor
Reeves (clarinet), lan Wilson
(oboe), Ray Maling (bassoon),
and Douglas Trengove (French
horn) each giving their best
separately and in various com-
binations—and the orchestra
directed sensitively by Pro-
fessor Heinze—this cheerful
music was accorded the most
sparkling treatment.
❖ ❖
“A Picture of Autumn”
This play by N. C. Hunter,
put on by Melbourne Little
Theatre, can be confidently
recommended to people who
like quiet gentle pictures of
English life with a wistful,
nostalgic flavor. Winton
Manor, Wiltshire, is the
ancestral home of the Denham
family with 32 bedrooms,
stables, glasshouses, farmland
and magnificent old garden,
but its only inmates are Sir
Charles, Lady Margaret, Uncle
Harry, the old bot of the
family, and an old nurse who
fills them up five times a day
with cocoa.
Winter is approaching and
Sir Charles has hardly strength
enough to gather firewood,
when Robert turns up. Robert
is the good Elder Son and
wants to shift the old people
into a nice small electrically-
equipped villa in the village
where they can end their days
in comfort and sell the beauti-
ful old manorhouse to the
Ministry of Agriculture for the
purposes of a college. Robert
has made a success of life in
the world’s terms. He has a
wife, a daughter and a good
job.
Frank, the younger son, has
none of these things. He has
been the Prodigal Son of the
family and has spent his
substance in riotous living.
While Robert is trying to con-
vince the old folk that it would
be all to their advantage to
sacrifice the house in which
they were born for a comfort-
able existence in a modern
villa, Frank turns up and
laughs uproariously at the
whole proceeding. He isn’t in
the least interested in the
plight of the old people or the
fate of the ancestral mansion,
but he is interested in his
brother’s wife, and, such is
human nature, she is more
interested in him, with all his
looseness, than she is in her
husband, who has all the social
virtues.
While Frank is playing this
game the good elder son has
succeeded in getting the old
folk to pack up their belong-
ings, Mr. Pargeter, from the
Ministry of Agriculture, has
been sent off under the illusion
that the Government is going
to get one of the loveliest
manorhouses in England for
the purposes of agricultural
education, and everything is
going beautifully, when Uncle
Harry gets lost in a secret
passage with Robert’s daughter.
By the time they have been
found, covered with muck and
slush but supremely happy, the
taxis have gone and it is too
late to effect the removal of
the old folk to the suburban
villa. They had no intention
of going, anyhow, or of selling
their old ruin, and the curtain
descends with Uncle Harry
happily relaxing in a chair and
Sir Charles tottering outside to
gather firewood against the
cold of winter.
Though neither very deep
nor subtle, N. C. Hunter’s play
has a warm, sympathetic
Chekhovian touch reminiscent
of “The Cherry Orchard,”
whose plot is almost identical
with it. Ray Edwards, Murielle
Hearne, Brian Moll, Donald
Gunner, Norman Kaye and
Betty Eames played the family
roles well, and John Tmscott
got as much of the magnificence
of Winton Manor as could be
accommodated on to the stage
of the Little Theatre.
*X* +♦♦ ***
“The Making of Moo”
No doubt this play by Nigel
Dennis rang pleasant in the
ears of many of the grads and
undergrads who filled Mel-
bourne Union Theatre for Wal
Cherry’s production. A skit
on contemporary religion, it is
in broad caricature, and very
badly drawn at that. The main
trouble is that its author
apparently had no other idea
in his head than of making
wisecracks about the church,
and that has been done before
and better.
Yet plot had some
interest. Frederick Compton,
a not very civil engineer,
Donald Blake, his male
secretary, and Elizabeth Comp-
ton, the engineer’s skittish
wife, have built a dam in some
remote part of India. In build-
ing it, they have unwittingly
deposed the natives’ deity, who
was formerly the Almighty, the
Ruler of the Waters. Being
conscientious, as Englishmen
like to be, they decide to create


a new god for the natives —
Moo. Moo has some connec-
tion with a cow which is
heard at intervals lowing off-
stage.
William, a moronic native
butler, is chosen to be its high-
priest, and, sceptical at first,
eventually agrees to take the
honor. A thousand laughable
incidents crop up like briars
on a sandy plain to make the
play almost bearable.
As it is written, deliberately
or not, as caricature, it is hardly
surprising that the actors failed
to pick up its accent. Good
as they are, Wal Cherry’s
proteges were just not able to
carry it off —they floundered
like drowning cats in the sea
of absurdities they were forced
to utter.
Monica Maughan, who gave
an otherwise scintillating per-
formance, could hardly be
blamed for wincing at some of
the lines she had to orate.
Alan Hopgood turned the
native butler into something
like an inmate of a lunatic
asylum and so lost many of the
laughs his part deserved.
jWyn Roberts, as the
engineer both of the dam and
the new religion, gave his
usual competent performance
and at times lifted the play to
a more exalted level. Of the
rest, George Ogilvie stood out
for his dual roles of Willis, the
lawyer, and of Mr. Fosdick.
Mr. Cherry’s production
lacked its usual saving touches
of imagination, and his sets
were poor —is it necessary for
a colonial drawing-room to be
dressed up like a Maori pa?
Artbursts
Sydney Art
Shows of small paintings can
consist either of the “gems”
where the skilful painter gets
his idea down in its first fresh-
ness and the minor painter
reaches his peak, or else of
slight sketches, doodlings,
dawdlings and failures which
the artist really should never
exhibit.
Most of the paintings in
Sydney Macquarie Galleries’
“show of eights” are doodlings,
but here and there something
worth while is to be found:
notably in Thos. Gleghorn’s
“Hopscotch,” Frank Hinder’s
“Bridge Sketch,” Jean Apple-
ton’s “Plums,” John Pass-
more’s “The Blue Hat,” Adrian
Feint’s “Flower Studies” and
the landscapes by Wakelin,
Murch, Arthur Evan Read and
Robert Campbell.
Lawrence Alcock, whose
exhibition at David Jones’ is
now closed —to be replaced this
week by Mary Troy —showed
such a variety of styles, and
most of them so naive, that the
lew paintings which did show
some quality were all but lost.
“Can Can,” “Profusion of
Fish,” and “Summer Shower”
linger in the mind.
At the Terry Clune Galleries
44 “promising young painters”
chosen by James Cook are dis-
playing their promise to the
curious eyes of King’s Cross.
The N. S. Wales National
Gallery is showing its purchases
and acquisitions for 1957,
including a Tom Roberts por-
trait, a “colonial table of 1815”
from the old MacArthur home,
16 “items of aboriginal art”
presented by Dr. Stuart
Scougall, and an oil by the
tapestry man, Lurcat.
❖ ❖
Falling Leaves
Away up at Tumut, N. S.
Wales, where wise men go to
fish for trout and where the
biggest poplars in the world
tower around the racecourse,
they have been holding each
autumn for the past four years
a Festival of the Falling Leaf.
This year there will be an art-
competition, first prize of 100
guineas and a further prize of
25 guineas for a painting of a
scene within the Tumut shire.
Closing-date for entry-forms is
March 23 and you get them
from the Secretary, Festival Art
Competition, Tumut. Judge,
Mr. Hal Missingham.
Other attractions of the
festival include: April 26,
floats ; April 27, a nice com-
bination of “church services,
band concert, trout-fishing” ;
April 28, scenic tours ; April 29,
pioneers’ dinner and more
tours ; April 30, tours of the
Snowy Mountains scheme ; and
similarly, not forgetting the
Ugly Man competition of May
3, to more church, and motor-
bike races, on Sunday, May 4.
And at all times, presumably,
falling leaves; or, as a local
poet put it in the official pro-
gramme :
Here in the town of Tumut
Thrives trees defying tally —
Deciduous, evergreen —
To ornament the valley. ...
That men afar may thrill
A nd hasten here to see
The glory of the picture
In actuality.
Off, then, to Tumut!
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Melbourne Contemporary
Art Society’s current exhibi-
tion at its gallery in Tavistock
Place isn’t of local prac-
titioners, though it could easily
be mistaken for one. It is a
show of hand-worked prints
by contemporary U.S. artists
lent by the Museum of Modern
Art, New York. Except that
some of the exhibitors seem
to have more technical tricks
at their disposal than most
local modernists, there is little
if anything to choose between
them. They are all trying to
be different and succeeding in
being extraordinarily alike,
with possibly two exceptions.
Alton Pickens’s “Pastorale,”
depicting a group of peasants
relaxing in a glade, has
robustness of line and a rich
humor, and “Psychopathic
Ward,” by Robert Riggs,
doesn’t depend for its effect
solely on horror and pathos—
the drawing has an aesthetic
quality which transcends its
subject.
♦♦♦ ♦>
The Melbourne National
Gallery announces a series of
exhibitions of the works of
contemporary painters and
sculptors, lent by their authors,
and the first instalment, mainly
abstractions, is now open for
public inspection.
Films
“The Tin Star”
A good Western by any
standards, this, at Sydney
Prince Edward, only falls short
of the best of them —such as
“High Noon” —because its
dramatic tensions are dispersed
over three or four threads of
narrative instead of being con-
centrated in one single conflict.
A young, boyish sheriff
wearing his star with uneasy
authority; a professional
bounty-hunter, who lives on
rewards for wanted men, dead
or alive ; the white widow of
an Indian more-or-less ostra-
cised by a community which
holds that the only good
Indians are dead ’uns; the
town’s bad egg, who aspires to
the sheriff’s star for his own
purposes; and a couple of
hold-up men who murder the
town’s doctor —all these have
to be brought together before
the classic Western man-to-
man finish.
They are brought together
very satisfactorily, however,
and there are many good
touches, none better than those
where the hard cynical bounty-
hunter is teaching the young
sheriff the finer points of
getting your man, and where,
in the end, he graduates by
shooting down the local tough.
Henry Fonda, as the deadly
efficient bounty-hunter, and
Anthony Perkins, as the young
lawman, play their respective
roles admirably, and Betsy
Drake, as the young widow, is
a very attractive decoration.
■*s•■
“Madame de . . . . ”
Concerns a mislaid set of
earrings which make their first
appearance on the beautiful
ears of Danielle Darrieux,
having been placed there by
her loved and loving husband,
Charles Boyer, on the first day
of their marriage. The posi-
tions of loved and lover are
apt to change, however, and
years later she sells the earrings
secretly to pay her debts and
gives out that they have been
stolen. They subsequently
make a reappearance on the
same lovely ears, having been
placed there by a diplomatic
baron who picked them up in
Constantinople.
To wipe out this deadly
insult the husband, who is a
general, feels obliged to
challenge the baron to a duel.
Miss Darrieux lays the earrings
at the feet of the Blessed
Virgin, and, taking a rather
naive view of Divine justice,
begs her to intervene on behalf
of her lover, but without avail.
Her husband happens to be the
best shot in the French Army.
A bad director could have
turned this coincidence-ridden
story of the mislaid set of
earrings into a typical naughty
French farce. Director Anuhls,
with the sensitive assistance of
Miss Darrieux and Mr. Boyer,
lifts it into the realm of art.
At the Australia, Melbourne.
»*♦ -t-jt-
“The Long Haul”
The only suspense in this
alleged crime-thriller at Sydney
Capitol resides in the constant
wonder whether an injudicious
sneeze by the precariously-
bodiced Diana Dors will
suddenly leave her nude north
of the waist. Possibly, of
course, that is her main purpose
in the film —her acting talents
seem rather less than those of
Victor Mature, who uses a
hangdog look to register every
emotion from anger to ecstasy.
The plot, to do with hi-
jacking in heavy-haulage road-
transport, has more holes than
a mosquito-net, and the chief
villain champs a fat cigar with
the melodramatic intensity of
the 1888-model who used to
walk sideways like a crab and
stroke long waxed moustachios
while foreclosing farmers’
mortgages at midnight. What
little action there is is gummed-
up by agonised irresolution on
the part of truck-driver Mature
as to whether he’ll prefer his
girl-friend to his wife.


The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Humes, Ltd.
X>UBLIC companies producing concrete
and steel pipes have prospered over
the last eight or nine years and, on
present indications,, should continue to
enjoy a high level of earnings for some
time to come.
Demand for pipes is largely governed
by the amount of finance available to
Government and semi - government
authorities, but extensions to water,
sewerage and drainage systems have, so
far, lagged behind the growth of the
fast-spreading capital cities and, with
further substantial increases in popu-
lation forecast, a reduction in the amount
spent on this type of work seems unlikely.
One of the largest manufacturers of
concrete, welded-steel and concrete-
lined pipes in the Southern Hemisphere,
Humes, Ltd., has benefited from the
generally favorable trading conditions
prevailing over the past 10 years, and,
although paid capital was enlarged by
a one-for-two bonus-issue in 1950, earn-
ings over the last five years have
averaged 35.1 p.c. of ord. capital, after
allowing for pref. divs.
Formed as Hume Pipe Co. (Australia),
Ltd., in 1920, Humes and its subsidiary
cos. operate 39 factories in Australia,
14 in New Zealand and three in Singa-
pore and Malaya. In addition to turning-
out pipes and various concrete products,
the group also undertakes general
engineering-work, fabricates light struc-
tural-steel used in building-construction,
and has asbestos-mining interests in
South Africa and N.Z.
A one-for-three par issue in 1951 lifted
paid capital to its present total of
£2,037,500 (of which £362,500 carries a
fixed lj p.c.), working-capital being
strengthened early in 1956 by the issue of
10,000 £lOO 64 p.c. notes.
Over the last four terms, earnings have
failed to reach the peak achieved in 1953,
dropping sharply in 1956. While group-
profit rose by 28 p.c. over the year to
June 30 last, the board, pursuing what it
describes as “a conservative financial
policy,” recommended a cut in the div.-
rate from \l\ p.c. to 16 p.c., to give an
average rate of 14.5 p.c. over the last
eight years.
A record turnover, in excess of
£7,750,000, helped the parent co. to
absorb higher operating-costs last term,
and an improvement in the earnings of
Hume Industries (Far East), Ltd., more
than compensated for a slightly smaller
return from Hume Industries (N.Z.),
Ltd. The group as a whole claimed a net
profit of £584,802, or £128,918 more than
in the previous term, after deducting the
proportion due to minority share-
holders :
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends N
Pref. , Ord. N To Re- Re-
£/ £i £/ £
Written off, £14,277 1,365,232
Unexplained decrease, £177,466 .. 1,187,766
Reduction intangibles, £291,499 .. 1,479,265
From tax reserve, £6388 .. ..1,485,653
1953. .711,175 27,188 174 293,125 390,862 1,876,515
Written off, £18,600 1,857,915
Added intangibles, £3403 .. .. 1,854,512
Unexplained reduction, £26,064 .. 1,828,448
1954. .625,235 27,188 174 293,125 304,922 2,133,370
Written off, £18,600 2,114,770
Reduction intangibles, £3165 . . 2,117,935
Profit sale assets, etc., £87,425 . . 2,205,360
1955. .705,233 27,188 174 293,125 384,920 2,590,280
Added intangibles, £355 .. .. 2,589,925
Surplus, sale assets and war
claims, £36,959 2,626,884
Unexplained reduction, £78,122 .. 2,548,762
Written-off, £18,600 2,530,162
1956. .455,884 27,188 174 293.125 135,571 2,665,733
Less increase in intangibles, £1611.. 2,664,122
Surplus revaluation subsidiary assets,
£310,106 .. 2,974,228
Loss sale assets, etc. £62,628 .. 2,911,600
Written-off, £6200 .. .. .. 2,905,400
1957..584,802 27,188 16 268,000 289,•14 3,195,014
+ After deducting intangibles, etc., now £19,384.
* After deducting outside interests.
The actual result was even better than
that shown above for the provision for
taxation (up £71,955 at £495,308) was
calculated on pre-Budget rates, the excess
provision amounting to approximately
£20,000. Provision for depreciation was
£49,776 higher at £376,198.
The smaller ord. div. was well covered,
earnings, after satisfying pref.-share-
holders, representing 33.2 p.c. of ord.
capital, compared with 25.5, 40.4, 35.7
and 40.8 p.c. in the four years back to
1953.
Land, buildings and investments owned
by Hume Industries (Far East) were
revalued during the year* the partly-
owned subsidiary financing a one-for-
two bonus-issue with the resulting
surplus. The revaluation is reflected in
the group accounts by a £310,106 addition
to reserves, which were also debited with
£62,628 following the sale of certain fixed
assets.
Capital-expenditure, over half of which
went into a new eleven-story office-
building in Melbourne, and revaluation
added a net £954,240 to the book-value
of fixed assets over the term. The heavy
outlay contributed to a £362,342 slip in
working-capital (£2,094,474), but, since
the books were ruled-off, arrangements
have been completed for a £500,000
mortgage-loan from the National Mutual
Life Association:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref. .. .. £362,500 £362,500 £362,500
Ord 1,675,000 1,675,000 1,675,000
Reserves . . - .. 2,590,280 2,665,733 3,195,014
Outside interest.. 542,159 744,290 893,580
Notes .. .. 1,000,000 1,000,000
Overdraft .. 951.920 842,589 1,103,591
Creditors . . 1,320,899 1,631,366 1,664,962
Tax provision . . 528,065 425,062 506,673
Suspense account 50,614 69,719 64,219
Final div. .. 168,532 168,532 164,344
£8,189,969 £9,584,791 £10,629,883
Freehold .. 368,986 435,939 601,767
Buildings .. 1,311,883 1,464,896 2,112,902
Plant . . . . 1,494,535 1,855,078 1,995,484
Asbestos deposits 148,082 129,182 99,397
Shares other cos. 105,612 105,612 222,070
Stocks . . .. 2,890,936 3,627,928 3,684,084
Debtors .. ~ 1,674,225 1,855,080 1,799,175
Cash, etc. .. 178,744 111,076 115,004
War claims .. 16,966 —.
£8,189,969 £9,584,791 £10,629,883
Substantial reserves strengthen the
earning-potential of paid capital, the
parent’s f.-p. £1 ords. having a net tan-
gible cover' of 58s. 2d. (consolidated
accounts) at June 30 last.
The sharemarket prices the ords. at
595. 6d. to return £5 7s. 7d. p.c. from a
16 p.c. div.
United Insurance Co., Ltd.
A VIGOROUS and successful hunt for
new business, helped by post-war
inflation, has, since 1949, more than
trebled the net premium income of the
United Insurance Co., Ltd.
For many years the 95-year-old United
confined the bulk of its underwriting
activities to the fire, marine and accident
risks handled by branches in Australia
and New Zealand ; but, over the last
decade, the co. has re-entered the Lon-
don marine- and fire-reinsurance markets,
established branches in South Africa,
India, Hong Kong, Fiji and New Guinea,
and, at the same time, greatly extended
its chain of Australian and N.Z. branches.
Shareholders found a large proportion
of the funds needed to finance these
developments, and paid capital, £500,000
in 1954, reached £1,000,000 at the end
of last term, par issues being made in
1955 (two-for-five) and in 1956 (three-
for-seven). The profitable employment
of the fresh capital has enabled the co.
to maintain the \2\ p.c. div.-rate, which
it reintroduced in 1948, an additional
2| p.c. bonus-div. going out in the 1954
term. Originally in partly-paid £lO ords.,
share-capital is now in f.-p. £1 stock-units.
Net premium income continued to
climb over the year to September 30 last,
and, at £2,794,637, was £222,656 higher
than the figure recorded in the previous
term:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. penses.* Rate. Rate.*
£ £ £ p.c. p.c.
1952.. 609 716,716 778,876 42.4 46.1
1953.-1,813,331 759,014 902,235 41.8 49.7
1954.. 2.204.046 1.007,173 908,392 45.7 41.2
1955.. 425.092 1,0-57,257 1,134,357 43.6 46.8
1956.. 571.981 1,190,909 1,212,845 46.3 47.1
1957.-2,794,637 1,331,172 1,249,776 47.6 44.7
* Includes tax on investment income up to, and
including, 1956.
In common with other Australian under-
writers operating in foreign markets, the
co. found overseas business less profitable
last term, and, with a further increase in
claims under third-party and workers’-
compensatiort policies, losses gobbled-up
47.6 p.c. of net premium income, an
increase of 265. p.c. Expenses claimed a
smaller share of net premiums, but the
exact extent of the improvement is not
evident from the accounts, as taxation on
interest, rent and dividends received, pre-
viously included with management
expenses, is now deducted from invest-
ment income and only the net figure
published.
While indicating more precisely the
composition of the co.’s net earnings, this
change in the method of allocating taxes
also prevents an accurate comparison
between last term’s underwriting and
investment profits and those of preceding
years without, of course, affecting the
overall result in any way.
All told, net profit edged forward by
£1764 to £178,579, the underwriting sur-
plus amounting to £124,627, after sending
£89,062 (up £30,306) to reserve for


unexpired risks, net investment income
adding up to £53,952:
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1952.. 93,789 12$ p.c. = 62,500 1 „ sq , 412
To staff fund, £IO,OOO ..) 21,289
To unexpired risks, £50,289 .. 1,341,701
1953. .146,275 12$ p.c. = 62,500 1 7 « 775 141547 a
To staff fund, £10,000..) 1 ’
To unexpired risks, £156,286 •• 1,571,762
1954.. 185,596 15 p.c. = 75,000 1 100f596 1,072,353
To staff fund, £IO,OOO r '
To unexpired risks, £113,418 .. 1,785,776
1955. .187,287 124 p.c. = 75,000 112,287 1,898.063
To unexpired risks, £58,756 . . 1,956.819
1956. .176,815 124 p.c.= 87.500 89,315 2,046,134
To unexpired risks, £89,062 .. 2,135,196
1957. .178,579 12$ p.c. =106,250 72,329 2,207,525
* Includes reserve unexpired risks, £1,212,339 at
30/9/’57.
Calculated after providing an unstated
amount for taxation, the earning repre-
sented 21 p.c. on average share-capital
(14.7 p.c. underwriting, 6.3 p.c. invest-
ments), as against 25.2, 31.2 and 37.1 p.c.
in the three years back to 1954. On paid
capital as it now stands a 12| p.c. div.
would call for £125,000, £153,579 less
than last term’s showing but £71,048 more
than investment income which is normally
regarded as the principal source of divs.
No part of the (undisclosed) profit won
by the wholly-owned Canberra Insurance
Co. Pty. was included with the earnings
of the parent co. (Canberra Insurance
was formed with a paid capital of £50,000
during the 1956 term.)
The balance-sheet reveals a sound
financial structure, the reserve for unex-
pired risks equalling an adequate 43.4 p.c.
of net premiums, while the general reserve
was only £4814 short of paid capital at
the end of the term :
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £709,000 £850,345 £1,000,000
Reserves . . . . 1,898,063 2,046,134 2,207,525
Provision for claims 304,083 425,375 475,426
Owing subsidiary
Creditors* .. 432,692 420,832 494,461
Final divs., etc. .. 43,750 43,750 53,125
£3,378,588 £3,808,851 £4,249,746
Freehold, etc. .. 1,004,236 1,277,422 1,394,569
Shares subsidiarv 39,758 50,000 50,000
Govt, securities, etc. 174,618 177,762 177,762
Shares debentures 82,988 95,490 196,751
Mortgages .. 619,330 649,015 697,307
Cash, bonds, debtors 1,457,658 1,559,162 1,733,297
£3,378,588 £3,808,851 £4,249,746
* Includes provision for taxation.
In the investment of additional funds the
emphasis was once again on shares,
debentures, etc. (up £101,261) and
mortgages (up £48,352), no alteration
being made to the sizeable holding of
Government bonds (£491,945) included
with cash and book-debts in the above
table.
At 60s. the f.-p. £1 ords. would return
£4 3s. 4d. p.c. from a 12| p.c. div., net
tangible cover amounting to 645. 2d.
S.A. Rubber Mills, Ltd.
TN its short (nine-year) career as a public
co. the Adelaide-registered S.A.
Rubber Mills, Ltd., has given an excellent
account of itself, a record turnover and
profit last term, followed by a one-for-
four bonus-issue, further enhancing the
status of the co.’s scrip in the sharemarket.
As a percentage of the fast-growing
share-capital, net earnings rose from
17.9 p.c. to 47.2 p.c. in the six years to
1955, dropping back (proportionately) to
43 p.c. last term.
The development of the automotive
industry has stimulated demand for a
number of the co.’s products, which
include a wide range of industrial rubber
goods and foam-rubber and plastic-foam
lines. Factories are situated at Edwards-
town (South Aust.) and Dandenong
(Vic.).
A rapid rate of expansion has led to
new share-issues becoming an almost
annual event, but, despite the 15 p.c. div.-
rate of the last four terms, retained earn-
ings have proved an even greater source
of funds.
Jumping from £IOO,OOO to £400,000
between 1950 and 1956, paid capital
advanced to £600,000 last December,
when simultaneous par and bonus issues
were made, both on a one-for-four basis.
Last term, for the first time, the plastics
division showed a return “commensurate”
with the capital-investment involved, and,
although overall profit-margins were a
little slimmer, higher sales pushed net
profit forward by £44,092 (or 34.5 p.c.) to
£172,015, after providing £158,585 for
taxation (apparently at the now-
superseded rates) and £114,155 (up
£23,847) for depreciation:
To Re- Re-
June Profit. f Dividend — serves, serves.
30, £ £ £ £
Share premiums, £13,200 .. .. 32,586
Share-issue exps. written-off, £2414.. 30,172
1949.. 17,827 10 p.c. = 7,404 10,423 40,595
1950.. 25,891 10 „ „ 10,000 15,891 56,486
Share premiums capitalised, £10,000.. 46,486
1951.. 37,239 10 p.c. = 13,000 24,239 70,725
Unexplained addition, £B3 . . . . 70,808
1952.. 50,888 12$ p.c. = 18,750 32,138 102,946
1953.. 62,897 124 „ „ 18,750 44,147 147,093
1954.. 96,953 15 „ ~ 28,125 68,828 215,921
1955. .113,967 15 „ ~36,250 77,717 293,638
1956. .127,923 15 ~ ~ 51.250 76,673 370,311
1957. .172,015 15 „ ~60,000 112,015 482,326
Requiring less than 35 p.c. of the earnings,
the div.-rate was unchanged at 15 p.c.,
lifting the average rate since conversion
to a public co. to 11.5 p.c. A 15 p.c. div.
on the present, £600,000, paid capital
would absorb £90,000 or £82,015 less
than last term’s net profit.
Proceeds of the recent share-issue will
be largely invested in fixed assets, but,
to date, the swift growth of the co. has
not unbalanced the financial structure: —•
Balance-sheet.
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £300,000 £400.000 £400,000
Reserves . . . . 293,638 370,311 482,327
Overdraft . . . . 68,462 151,117 60,863
Creditors . . .. 191,659 240,085 225,914
Tax provision .. 93,510 124,252 172,757
Dividends .. .. 36,250 51,250 60,000
£983,519 £1,337,015 £1,401,861
Freehold land, build-
ings . . . . 195,180 222,615 287,382
Plant, vehicles, etc. 221,058 288,631 294,589
Stock . . . . 313,610 520,836 485,479
Debtors . . .. 214,083 281,200 321,690
Cash, prepayments,
etc 39,588 23,733 12,721
£983,519 £1,337,015 £1,401,861
Extensions were made to both the
Edwardstown and Dandenong plants dur-
ing the year, capital-expenditure being in
the vicinity of £185,000. The provision
for depreciation (at a greater rate than
that allowed by the taxation authorities)
limited the increase in the book-value of
fixed assets (since revalued) to £70,725.
Production .and sales continued to
increase over the first quarter of the
current term and, judging by past per-
formances, the co. should have no
difficulty in maintaining the present div.-
rate on the enlarged share-capital.
Allowing for scrip issued since the
close of the term, there was 9s, in net
tangible assets at June 30 last for each
f.-p. ss. ord., the scrip at 18s. returning
£4 2s. 3d. p.c. from a 15 p.c. div. The
new shares participate in divs. paid from
earnings won after December 31 last and
are currently fetching 17s. 4^d.
Ford Sherington Holdings, Ltd.
TUDW that the tax-free reserve-pool
' has been drained, and with, it seems,
no compensatory div.-lift in the offing,
the scrip in this firmly-grounded travel-
goods manufacturer appears to be some-
what in eclipse on ’Change. In one of
their infrequent appearances in the call-
lists, the relatively few ss. ords. held by
the investing public were recently bring-
ing, at 7s. 9d. a share, only a fraction over
the 1951 placement-price of 7s. 6d.,
returning on this basis a yield of £6 9s. Od.
p.c. from the well-covered 10 p.c. div.-rate.
Less well-known than its product-
labels, Globite, Fordite, Airway and
Regal, Ford Sherington, which was
registered as a public co. in October,
1950, had operated more or less as a
family concern since 1911.
Typically conservative, last year’s
declared net profit, after providing for
co.-tax and depreciation, was shown as
£19,490, a drop of £5306 on the £24,796
claimed for the year to June 30, 1956.
But to net earnings must be added £SOOO
transferred to a plant-replacement reserve
—which also received the benefit of a
£SOOO tax-overprovision carried-over
from previous years—-making comparable
profit £24,490. And while last year’s
depreciation-allowance seems reasonable
at £3907, the tax-provision of £26,211 is
not easily reconciled with the indicated
profit, particularly in view of the recent
cut in co.-tax from Bs. to 7s. 6d. in
the £: —
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, —Dividends To Be- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. f Ord. N serves, serves.*
8 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
Tax overprovided, £1146 .. .. 124,739
Preliminary exp. written-off, £985 .. 123,754
1951.. 886 3644 10 p.e. = 10,000 19,242 142,996
1952.. 842 3644 10 „ „ 10,000 7,198 150,194
Exchange premium, £491 .. .. 150,685
Tax overprovided, £B2 .. .. .. 150,767
1953.-27,512 3644 10 p.c. =10,009 13,868 164,635
Exchange premium, £491 .. .. 165,126
Tax overprovided, £26 .. .. .. 165,152
1954.. 031 3644 10 p.c. = 10,000 18,387 183,539
Exchange premium, £613 .. .. 184,152
Tax overprovided, £l2B .. .. 184,280
1955- 364* 10 p.c. =IO,OOO 19,304 203,584
Profit sale bonds, £79 .. .. .. 203,663
Exchange premium, £1962 .. .. 205,625
1956- 3644 10 p.e. =IO,OOO 11,152 216,777
Exchange premium, £613 .. .. 217,390
Tax overprovided, £SOOO .. .. 222,390
1957- 3644 10 p.c. =IO,OOO 10,846 233,236
* Subject to intangibles, £75,000 at 30/6/’57, and
including £IO,OOO plant replacement provision.
A more informative picture of operating
performances over the last five years
can perhaps be visualised from pre-tax
earnings, taken as percentages of ordinary
capital and shareholders’ funds:
Term Pre-tax P.c. of Ord. P.c. of Share-
June 30, Profit. Capital.* holders’ Funds.
1953 .. £52,012 48.37 16.8
1954 .. 52;656 49.01 16.0
1955 .. 56,668 53.02 16.2
1956 .. 49,913 46.27 13.8
1957 . . 50,701 47.06 13.7
* After deducting pref. div. from gross profit.
Viewed from this angle, last term’s show-
ing fell, only 3.2 p.c. short of the average
pre-tax profit (£52,390) for the period.
The rate of return on shareholders’ equity


THE ANGLICAN PRESS LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1936 of the State of New South Wales on March 20, 1967)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £5,000
ISSUE OF £70,000 7% REDEEMABLE MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Redeemable on August 1, 1977, or, at the option of the Company, on August 1, 1972, or August 1, 1967.
Directors:
The Bishop of Armidale
(Chairman)
P. M. Bowen
A. F. P. James
Canon T. E. Jones, M.B.E.
Harold Morgan
The Reverend F. W. Coaldrake, M.A.,
Th.L.
Joyce M. James
The Reverend T. B. McCall, 8.A.,
Th.Schol.
F. A. Timbury
H. J. Reid
Trustees for the Debenture Stock
Holders:
The Archbishop of Brisbane
The Archbishop of Perth
The Bishop of Newcastle
The Bishop of Ballarat
The Bishop of Tasmania
The Bishop of Gippsland
The Bishop of Adelaide
Further details, with the Prospectus and form of application for
Debenture Stock, will be gladly supplied upon request. Please
fill in the coupon below.
To the Secretary,
The Anglican Press Limited,
3-13 Queen Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Would you please supply me with the Prospectus and Form of
Application of Debenture Stock in the Anglican Press Limited.
Name
Address
Debenture Stock in excess of £55,000 has been allotted in
accordance with the terms of the issue, and has been
employed by the Press in the production of books, news-
papers, magazines, brochures, leaflets, cards, account books
and other high quality printed material since October, 1957.
The Directors have resolved to receive applications for the
remaining £15,000 in order to finance further expansion of
plant and to provide additional working capital to meet the
expected increased scale of operations.
Applications, in multiples of £5, will be received until the
issue is filled or until July 31, 1958, whichever date is the
earlier.
has, however, declined fairly
steeply since 1955 as funds
were diverted into two new
factory premises at Perth and
Brisbane. Both these new free-
holds have now been com-
pleted and occupied.
Assets, obviously, are con-
servatively valued. Total fixed
assets, £195,147, appear in the
books at cost-/c.s.v-depreciation
(and the firm has been in busi-
ness for 47 years); stocks,
£110,984, appear at cost,
market or replacement value,
less reserve ; and book-debts,
£34,274, have been written-
down by provision for doubt-
ful debts and possible dis-
counts. Moreover, the South
African subsidiary’s figures
have been taken in without
adjustment for the £S.A.’s 25
p.c. exchange-premium:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital—- 1956. 1957.
Pref. .. £45,550 £45,550
Ord 100,000 100,000.
Reserves .. 216,776 223,235
Prov. for plant re-
placement ..
Mortgage .. 15,967 15,979
Creditors .. .. 47,876 46,3'52
Tax provision .. 32,740 29,553
Final divs. .. 6,822 6,822
£465,731 £477,491
Land, buildings .., 129,516 154,614
Plant, etc. .. 37,323 40,533
Stock . . . . 110,167 110,984
Debtors .. .. 44,672 34,274
Cash, bonds .. 69,053 62,086
Intangibles .. 75,000 75,000
£465,731 £477,491
Although trading conditions
have been far from satisfactory
for some time, the reduction
in the rate of sales-tax on
travel-goods to 12 j p.c. (from
the 25 p.c. operative since the
supplementary Budget of
March, 1956) should appreci-
ably stimulate Ford Shering-
ton’s turnover. Furthermore,
the measure of import-relief
already granted will enable the
co. to import more fibre to
cope with any additional
demand.
Even on last term’s results,
rather more than half the net
profit went into reserves,
bringing visible net tangible
assets backing to 12s. sd. a
share.
But, as indicated, the true
backing seems considerably
higher, and, with the present
dividend within very safe
limits, investor - supporters
should eventually be well
rewarded for their waiting.
Austral Malay Tin Group
/CONTINUING its efforts to
counter the disparity be-
tween the supply of tin and
the weakened demand for the
metal, the International Tin
Council has extended restric-
tions, imposed last December,
on exports from all major tin-
producing countries. (The res-
trictions do not affect exports
from Russia, which is not a
party to the International Tin
Agreement.)
By extending the period dur-
ing which export quotas now in
force remain effective, the
Council has limited exports to
about 60 p.c. of the level pre-
vailing over the year to
September 30 last.
Provisional quotas allowed
the two (currently) operating
members of the Austral Malay
family, Austral Amalgamated
Tin, Ltd., and Pungah Tin
Dredging, Ltd., for the quarter-
year to March 31 next were
announced last week. Austral
Amalgamated, the top per-
former, is restricted to
approximately 373 tons of con-
centrates for the period and
Pungah to 40 tons. Austral
Amalgamate d’s average
quarterly output last term was
561 tons and Pungah’s 84 tons.
Austral Amalgamated (Malaya)
With four dredges now in
operation (Puchong No. 2
commenced production in
April, 1956), Austral Amalga-
mated handled 11,185,000 cu.
yds. of ground last term, as
against 8,619,000 c.y. in the
previous year, for 2246 tons
(up 518 tons) of tin concen-
trates :
Austral Amalgamated.
( —Concentrates-^
Lb. Overall
Treated, Per Cost
Lease. C.y. Tons. C.y. Per C.y.
Puchong—
-1956.. 3.420.000 601.27 0.39 14.07 d.
1957.-3,354,000 719.84 0.48 15.31 d.
Puchong No. 2
1956.. 679,000 180.24 0.59 18.80 d.
1957.. 446.000 688.25 0.45 14.70 d.
Ulu Yam—
-1956.. 000 472.88 0.55 17.57 d.
1957-2,041,000 462.02 0.54 18.41 d.
Sungkai —•
1956-2,605,000 474.46 0.41 14.32 d.
1957.. 344.000 376.48 0.39 15.86 d.
The average price received
for the ore rose from £741 to
£762 a ton of metallic tin,
increasing at a slightly slower
rate than operating costs (up
£l4 at £460 a ton). After set-
ting aside £123,745 (up
£35,484) for taxation and
£110,170 (up £28,756) for
depreciation, net profit climbed
by £71,569 to £291,245, repre-
senting 34.7 p.c. on the
£836,896 paid capital.
Following revaluation of the
co.’s dredges, bonus-scrip was
handed-out at the end of the
term in the proportion of seven
free f.-p. ss. ords. for every 10
held. A div. of Is. a share has
been paid since the close of the
year, a further Is. 6d. being
sent out shortly before the
bonus-issue.
At balance-date (June 30
last) liabilities amounted to
£313,733 and current assets,
including stores (£182,857) and


it
” Warn
wft-i
BlSf§
■ -
mxii"wy
ggssgj
.mm
mm
■m
J
IMPORTANT
ANNOUNCEMENT
Australia's Leading Hire Purchase Organisation , Established 21 Years.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
announces
that it will shortly file and issue a Prospectus for an issue at par of
Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stork
Currencies from 2 to 20 years at your option
INTEREST
333333
0
Interest per annum, payable quarterly, free of exchange
vr£
CUMULATIVE
m
6| per cent per annum (compounded)
4to 20 years. Interest automatically
re-invested annually—Principal
DOUBLES in 11 years.
L
2
o
I.A.C.’s regular issues of Short and Long Term Debenture Stocks provide
a source of assured income, and a secure investment, backed by assets which
now exceed £50,000,000.
Requests for a Prospectus, when available, may be made to Members of Stock Exchanges,
the 703 Branches of the AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED, and
INDUST RIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
SYDNEY • BRISBANE • PERTH • MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE • HOBART • CANBERRA • NEWCASTLE
Underwriting Brokers:
lAN POTTER & CO., MELBOURNE, CANBERRA & SYDNEY
Bankers:
AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
D 29
contributions to the buffer-pool
stock (£97,718), to £598,911.
The scrip sold last week at
13s. 3d. (Australian).
Pungah Tin Dredging
(Thailand)
An unexpectedly poor out-
put and an increase in produc-
tion-costs left Pungah with a
much smaller net profit last
term. As in the previous year,
the whole of the ground
worked consisted of tailings,
2,830,000 cu. yds. (up 77,000
cu. yds.) being treated for 337
tons of concentrates (down 45
tons):
Pungah Tin.
Year
to Concen- Av. Overall
June Treated, trates, Per C.y. Cost,
30, C.y. Tons. Lb. C.y.
1955. 338.5 0.39 14.94 d.
1956. 381.3 0.31 13.19 d.
1957. 336.5 0.27 13.90 d.
Average price received per
ton of metallic tin was £l9
higher at £761, but wage-
increases, larger royalties, etc.,
and lower values helped to
push up working-costs from
£547 to £6Bl a ton, net profit
falling by £21,441 to £29,740.
A div. of Is. per share was
paid last April. Although
registered in Malaya, Pun-
gah is now regarded as a
non-resident for income-tax
purposes and is no longer
required to deduct Malayan
tax from divs.
The board hopes that the
working of tailings “will yield
suitable returns for several
years yet.” Meanwhile Austral
Malay is searching for a new
site for the dredge, so far with-
out success.
The market values the
co.’s f.-p. 10s. ords. —there are
430,000 of them —at around ss.
(Aust.).
Kampong Kamunting Tin
Dredging, Ltd., another
member of the group, ran out
of payable ground in 1953 and
is still awaiting a decision on
its 1955 application for a
mining - lease in Kedah
(Malaya). A fourth co.,
Thabawleik Tin Dredging,
is in voluntary liquidation.
Austral Malay Tin
A prospecting and holding
co., Austral Malay Tin, Ltd.,
is a large shareholder in all
four cos. for which it also acts
as manager and secretary. A
one - for - one bonus - issue
took paid capital up to
£stg. 100,000 in June, 1957.
Gross earnings slipped
by £7158 over the year to June
30 last, but a tax-refund
replaced the £B3OO payment of
the previous term, so that, after
writing-off £13,827 (down
£3410) of prospecting-
expenses, net profit was £5296
stronger at £14,128. The tax-
refund was worth an additional
£3241. Sale of portion of the
co.’s holding in Austral
Amalgamated resulted in
capital profits of £52,202 last
term and £202,238 in 1956.
A div. of 2s. per 10s. stock-
unit was paid prior to the
bonus-issue, a further Is.
a share going out last
September. (All amounts are
in sterling. Divs., except those
paid by Pungah, are subject to
Malayan tax of 30 p.c.)
On the prospecting side, the
co. had little success last term,
the most interesting of the
areas tested in Malaya, Thai-
land and Australia appearing
to be a site at Emmaville, in
N.S.W.
Buyers are offering 225.
(Australian) for the scrip with-
out attracting sellers.


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The neo - bab-
reke acts like
a hand when
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, control
your hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
Write today for Free Literature
Barrere Distribution Company
Dept. Bg, 243 Elizabeth St,, Sydney
Report from Wellington—
AUSTERITY AHEAD IN N.Z.
the end of January New
" Zealand’s overseas reserves
were down to £42.6 million.
This was in spite of the sale by
the Reserve Bank of £14.2
million of its sterling invest-
ments, thereby reduced to £13.6
million.
A year previously reserves
stood at £77.3 million; two
years previously at £67.1
million.
From the last Wednesday in
December to the last Wednes-
day in January the fall was £2.9
million after the sale of £12.2
million of investments. In the
previous month the fall was £l3
million after the sale of £2
million of investments. In the
December-January month last
year there was a rise of
£BOO,OOO, and investments were
static.
The final week of January
this year saw reserves recover
from their lowest weekly figure
of £42 million to £42.6 million.
This rise could mark the start
of the seasonal upward move-
ment.
Recovery to a safe level,
however, will be a long, slow
and painful process.
The drop in wool prices this
season is expected to reduce
overseas earnings by £23
million compared with the
previous season. That is the
estimate of the Minister of
Agriculture, based on the
assumption that the unsold
portion of the clip will realise
an average pric# of 42d. a
pound.
Wool Sales
During the season ended
June, 1957, wool brought N.Z.
£lO6 million, compared with
£94 million in 1956 and £93
million in 1955. Wool pro-
duces a large proportion of
total export receipts, which
were £286 million in 1957, £2Bl
million in 1956 and £219
million in 1955. (All figures in
N.Z. currency.)
N.Z. is still selling 1956-57
dairy-produce. If prices do not
improve, receipts for the
season will fall £5.6 million
below the 1955-56 level of £77.8
million. At the beginning of
February the U.K. price for
N.Z. butter was down to 2405.
a cwt., the lowest point since
the war, and there was some
prospect of a further fall.
The outlook for meat is not
yet clear. Production of lamb
for export is likely to reach a
record total this season. In
the first three months to the
end of December it was 12.6
per cent, up compared with the
corresponding period last
season. The pressure of larger
supplies, however, is expected
to cause some fall in price.
When the British Prime
Minister, Mr. Macmillan, was
here recently it was made plain
to him that N.Z. felt entitled
to a better deal from Britain,
particularly by way of protec-
tion from competition by
European countries supplying
subsidised dairy-produce to the
British market.
Mr. Macmillan said the U.K.
now had legislation enabling it
to deal with dumping, and N.Z.
could possibly make out a
sound case which would be
examined most sympathetically.
Action is being taken
accordingly.
Wider aspects of trade
between Britain and N.Z. will
be discussed in London, prob-
ably in April. An N.Z. sugges-
tion that the provisions of the
Ottawa Agreement should be
reviewed in the light of the
great changes in trading rela-
tions which have occurred since
the agreement was signed in
1932 will be under
consideration.
Austerity Ahead
There is no doubt that a long
period of austerity lies ahead
for N.Z. The Minister of
Finance, Mr. Nordmeyer, said
recently that he could see
“little prospect of an improve-
ment in our overseas funds
position in the near future.”
If by that Mr. Nordmeyer
meant “improvement to a safe
level” there will be general
agreement with him.
The public has accepted
import-control as an emergency
measure, but it would be much
happier if it had some assur-
ance from the Government that
the restrictions will be gradually
eased and ultimately removed
as circumstances permit.
There is a fairly widespread
fear that, even when reserves
are restored, the Government
may seek to retain import-con-
trol as a device to protect local
industries. If this proves to be
so, harm will be done to the
economy and the Government
will bring down retribution on
its own head at the next elec-
tion. N.Z. had more than
enough of import-control as a
permanent policy - measure
when Labor was in power last
time.
The Government has had a
lot to say about the previous
Government’s errors of judg-
ment, but some of its own
actions and statements hardly
inspire confidence in its ability
to handle the country’s
financial affairs.
That Tax-rebate
In fulfilment of its election
promise, the Government has
secured passage of legislation
providing for the rebate of the
first £lOO of income-tax due
from each taxpayer this month.
In the course of the debate,
which was at times uproarious,
the Minister of Finance said:
“I do not agree that in this
financial year and in existing
circumstances taxation should
be increased. On the contrary,
I believe taxation should be
diminished.”
In view of the obvious need
to reduce purchasing-power in
order to check inflation spring-
ing from the reduction of
imports, this statement seemed
to be based solely on the
Government’s need to carry out
its big election - promise at
whatever cost to the national
economy.
However, Mr. Nordmeyer
did say: “I am not giving any
indication of what I may do
next financial year.” It seems
rather more than likely that all
that is being given away in the
tax-rebate will soon be taken
back again. That that would
happen should, of course, have
been obvious before the
election.
The Government is now no
doubt realising the rashness of
some of its other election-
promises. Family men are
wondering when the child-
benefit will be increased from
10s. to 15s. a week, and home-
builders are anxious to see how
long 3 p.c. money will be
available for housing loans,
and just how the Government
is going to keep on raising it.
Meantime, homebuilders
don’t want, to borrow at higher
rates, building has slowed-
down, and even firm contracts
have been cancelled. The
national executive of the N.Z.
Master Builders’ Federation
has expressed concern at the
effect on the industry.
Under the stimulus of
import-control retail trade is
booming. Imported goods of
all types are being rushed, and
whisky is being unofficially
rationed. “Business is going
pretty well, but I wouldn’t like
to say how long it will last,”
said the secretary of the N.Z.
Retailers’ Federation. “It will
probably be April or May
before the position is clear. But
it is obvious that the large
amount of money that has
already gone overseas will pro-
duce a flow of goods for some
time yet.”
Timber for Japan
Japan is showing interest in
the product of N.Z.’s pine
forests. Following a small
trial shipment in November
last, 2,100,000 ft. of Pinus
radiata in log-form will leave
Tauranga this month for
Japanese ports.
This, it is hoped, will be the
beginning of a valuable trade
taking up to 100-million feet of
logs a year. Annual shipments
of 30-million to 50-million feet
are expected initially. It is
understood that Japanese
interests would like a continu-
ous service and are prepared to
accept a shipment every week.
Development of the trade, how-
ever, will be governed by
berthage facilities available at
Mt. Maunganui.
The Tasman Pulp and Paper
Company’s Kawerau mill
achieved a record week’s news-
print-production of 1677 tons
at the end of January. The
machine is now operating at
1750 ft. a minute, exceeding its
rated capacity of 1600 ft. a
minute. On one day recently
production reached a record
264.8 tons.


FITNESS-CAMP
By NOEL DONNAN
ARCHIE, a lean, brown-
eyed urchin, who looked
conspicuously shabby
even in that ragamuffin
group, followed Riley out of
the room.
“Sir,” said Archie, “can 1
pay me money now?” He held
out three gleaming florins which
seemed to increase in value in
that grimy palm. “I got paid
for me paper-run today, but if
I take the money home Mum'll
take it off me.”
Riley had been telling the
class about the fitness-camp
at Mellor’s Point. As he droned
on about the trees and the fish
and the aborigines’ caves (he
had given much the same
address dozens of times) the
boys looked at him with some-
thing like wonder in their eyes,
and when he asked who wanted
to go, they all put up their
hands except Archie.
“I’m not collecting money
today,” Riley told him. “Be-
sides, I think you’d better stop
home. Your mother might
need that money.”
“Yeah, but she spends it all
on plonk.” The boy jingled a
pocket full of coins. “There’s
some more here for her. Why
does she have to take the lot?”
Riley reflected for a few
moments. He remembered that
he did have a stray form in
his case. “All right,” he said
at last. “But remember—you
have to bring your own tucker.”
“Oh, that’s 0.K.”
So Archie came, too. He
arrived at the rendezvous on
Thursday afternoon with a
large box containing a dozen
one-pound tins of spaghetti.
He exchanged these with other
boys for various items, includ-
ing steak and frankfurts, corn-
beef, a large number of potatoes
(for chips), and some fruit.
Then, seeing that some of the
other boys had brought some
small wire grillers to cook their
meat, Archie went away for a
few minutes and returned with
a wire mat of the type you
often see outside the doorways
of suburban shops. This, Archie
declared, made a perfect griller.
Satisfied now with all his
preparations, Archie tied a
rope around his box and
boarded the train.
“Y’know, I’ve never been to
the country before,” he con-
fided. “Gee, we’re going to
have a bonze? time.”
There was a good three-mile
walk from the railway-terminus
to the fitness-camp. This route
led through scrub-country, and
the boys found the going diffi-
cult with their heavy packs,
although the forest was cool.
The sun could not be seen
here, and the area seemed to be
lit by some system of its own
which bathed the valley in a
soft, mysterious amber.
The trees impressed the boys
and they were unusually silent.
Once Archie shouted out,
“Pa —per —‘Sun’ or ‘Mirror’!”
and they all laughed, a little
guiltily, like people misbehaving
in church ; it was a world far
from the domain of paper-boys.
They passed through several
valleys before they came to a
cluster of gums and a large,
clear pool fed by a waterfall
where they saw some deer
drinking. The boys wanted a
swim, but Riley kept them
going, for they had to set up
some tents, and eventually they
came to a long, low building
—almost in the heart of the
scrub —the camp at Mellor’s
Point.
“'T'HE first principle in
•*- running a fitness-camp,”
Riley said later, “is to tire the
kids so they will sleep at night.
Otherwise, you don’t know
what will happen.
“I thought this crowd would
be tired after the trip and the
walk through the scrub with
their packs. My mistake. You’d
need to tie that gang together
and chain them to the back
of a bus and run ’em for
twenty miles before they’d get
tired.
“I put them to bed about
nine-o’clock and they all seemed
to drop off like logs. About
half-past-ten I went around
with a torch and not one of
them was in bed.
“I was worried. I was
responsible for those kids.
They could easily break an arm
or a leg or get cut to pieces
running about. There were
some broken bottles around,
left by fishing-parties.
“I had an idea where they
were, so I went straight to the
pool. Luckily, the moon was
bright and you could see
everything pretty well. They
were there, all right, the whole
thirty - five of them, all
stripped to their birthday-suits.
Some were swimming, others
were lying about smoking
cigarettes or cooking chips,
several were running about
through the trees like Red
Indians. They’d thought-up
some sort of game where some
would run under the trees and
others would drop down on
them from the branches. I
don’t know how they didn't
break their backs or legs.
“Well, I broke up the party
and marched them back and
threatened to belt the daylights
out of them if it happened
again. About eleven-o’clock
they were all asleep, so I went
to bed myself. About one in
the morning I woke up—l think
that crowd made me nervous —
and went around with the torch
to have a look at them.
“They were all gone again!
Pillows tucked lengthwise under
the blankets to fool me. I was
bloody wild, I can tell you.
I took a few minutes to get to
the pool and there they were
—at it again! This time I
didn’t make any bones about it.
I lined ’em up and grabbed a
piece of wood. Then I gave
them two whacks, one on each
section of the backside, and
sent them back to the hut.
Sadistic? I’ll say it was.”
T IKE all good fitness-camp
men, Riley was in fine
physical condition at the time
of this camp, and he knew how
to bring about a suitable state
of exhaustion in his charges.
The following morning he
organised a shuttlecock tourna-
ment, then swimming-races at
the pool, followed in the after-
noon by a ten-mile hike.
But the exuberance of this
group was apparently in-
exhaustible. In spite of threats
and punishment, the boys kept
disappearing into the bush or
going out at night on forays
of their own. At times
Riley could see the smoke from
their campfires ten miles away,
and one night he spent hours
looking for his lost sheep with
a lantern.
“Thirty-five kids,” said Riley,
“ran amuck. And that damned
Archie was the worst of the lot.
Most of the others had the
sense to travel in twos and
threes in the scrub, but Archie
travelled alone like an abo.
He got to know that bush like
Surry Hills. He was an
amazing kid, completely fear-
less, and he could climb any
tree in about thirty-seconds.
The other kids reckoned that
he could swing on the vines
. from one tree to the next, and
he used to sit on a treetop and
yodel like Tarzan.”
Of course there were times,
said Riley, when they came
together; chiefly mealtimes.
T,hey ate almost anything,
those boys, for variety—old
eels, even grilled snake. One
afternoon, for instance, Archie
declared that he was going
snake-hunting ; he knew where
there were some particularly
juicy specimens; if anyone
wanted to come with him, they
could.
“Oh no/ you’re not,” said
Riley quickly. “We’re going to
have a look at the caves this
afternoon.”
So they all went off to the
caves which were a few miles
from the camp. On the way
they crossed a clearing where
there was an old, abandoned
tent. Riley had seen this tent
before: it was a very lopsided
affair, with most of its
supports broken, and ravaged
by wind and age, and on one
side of it were some huge, red
discolorations caused by
mildew, which now attracted
the attention of the boys.
“What’s those stains?” they
wanted to know.
“Blood,” said Riley.
“How’d they get there?”
“Didn’t you read about it
in the papers? An abo.
murdered two fishermen here
about six months ago.”
They stared at him.
“What did he kill them for?”
one boy asked.
“Wanted their kidney-fat.
The abos. reckon that if they
eat your kidney-fat, they
inherit your strength.”
“Gawd! ”
“Yes,” said Riley, warming
to his theme. “There were
three fishermen here and one
got away. He told the police a
great big abo., about seven-
foot high, killed his mates with
a stone axe.”
The boys looked at the old
tent in horror. The seven-foot
aborigine took a sudden,
powerful grip on their imagina-
tions. As they walked on
towards the caves, they asked
fresh questions.
“Did they hang this abo.?”
“No, they never caught him.”
“Do you mean he’s still
around here?” asked a boy,


with an edge of panic in his
voice.
“Yes, I’ve heard him myself,”
said Riley. “He runs about at
night yelling. He doesn’t come
out much in the day, but it’s the
night-time when he does his
killing.”
“And didn’t the police ever
catch him?”
“No, he’s too cunning for
the police.”
“But how does he get his
food?”
“Oh, he kills a deer every
now and then —he has spears,
you know —and he catches fish.
Then there are birds, berries,
snakes. . . He does all right.
But never mind about that
now, here are the caves.”
“I’m not going into any
caves,” said one boy. “How
do we know he’s not in ther*
waiting for us?”
r pHE caves were dark, evil-
smelling places, haunted by
bats. In their present frame of
mind, the boys would not enter
them until Riley shone his
torch around the corners.
On the walls were
aborigine carvings depicting
hunting-scenes and tribal
dances, and in front of one
cave Riley showed the boys a
mound of smooth stones of
many hues —the remains of a
sacred altar, he said, of days
gone by.
“This is where the abos.
used to offer up their sacrifices.”
“What kind of sacrifices?”
“Oh, animals . . . sometimes
humans. They used to crush the
victims between these stones.”
The boys looked at the
stones solemnly. Fresh evi-
dence, this, to remind them of
the murderer.
“Now, this seven-foot abo.,”
Riley concluded, “is a throw-
back. He lives alone, he won’t
accept the white men’s law, he
lives in the same way as his
ancestors.”
“Hey,” cried a boy suddenly,
“here’s a fire burning.”
Excitedly, the others rushed
forward. It was true: the
embers of a large fire still
glowed on the rocky floor.
“It’s the abo.!” someone
cried. “He’s been here. Come
on, let’s go!”
And there was a concerted
“You SAID to Weigh the anchor!"
movement for the cave-
entrance.
Riley privately deduced that
the fire had been made by some
fishermen who had spent the
previous night in the cave. But,
publicly, he said: “Yes, it looks
like it. Now stand still and
don’t panic.” He counted them
solemnly. “Thirty-five,” he
announced at last, as if he were
surprised. “That’s all right, but
from now on we’ll have to
keep together.”
The boys didn’t wander far
tfhat night. Indeed, Riley
began to think he had been too
convincing, for they evacuated
their tents and came to sleep
inside the big hut. They
locked the doors and barricaded
them with lumps of wood,
billies, saucepans, frying-pans
and so on, so that no one could
enter without waking them.
Nor would they leave the
main building under any cir-
cumstances, certainly not to
face that terrible journey
to the lavatory situ-
ated some distance from the
main building. And when
Riley tried to make one go,
he clung to the bed with such
terror and desperate strength
that Riley was unable to shift
him.
"DILEY didn’t mention the
aborigine the next day,
although the boys were con-
tinually finding fresh evidence
of him.
Smoke in the distance, foot-
prints in the sand, sites of old
campfires were all signs of
the monster, now that he had
been established in their
imaginations.
For the rest of the time at
the camp, Riley had no diffi-
culty in keeping his charges
together. They were contented
to fish and swim under his
supervision; in the evenings
they played table-tennis or
quoits and such games near the
main hut; and they certainly
showed no inclination to
venture into the bush at night.
What a powerful thing, Riley
reflected, is the Word.
And he gained some inkling
of thought-control and tasted
some of the satisfactions that
come to those subtle discipli-
narians who influence men’s
actions by influencing their
minds.
Sometimes, though, the bush
looked truly sinister at night.
The trees whispered, and you
could hear deer moving about
among the bushes. The moon
played tricks with the shadows
and the trees flung giant spears
across the yellow pools of light,
and black men seemed to walk
again in the lonely forest.
You could feel something in
the atmosphere on those nights,
and at such times Riley used
to pin a ten-shilling note to a
tree about a quarter of a mile
from the hut and say: “If
anybody wants it, he only has
to come down here tonight and
get it.”
And on such nights as these,
some boys would stay awake
and drag an unfortunate fellow
out of his bed, terrifying him ;
and others would go to sleep
and dream of the aborigine—
or pretend to crying out,
“Help! ” or “He’s got me!
Quick!” and so forth, to the
consternation of their fellows.
“Ah, yes,” said Riley, looking
back on the affair, “they lost a
lot of fun because of that
seven-foot aborigine, but they
got a lot of fun out of him,
too.”
the last evening at the
camp, Riley offered to take
a party to the spot where the
aborigine stored the bones of
people he had eaten. He had
discovered that some of the
rocks in the area were phos-
phorescent and emitted a
strange, bluish light; and he
had planted some deer-bones
with those rocks in the vicinity.
“Every night these bones
glow with a blue light,” he
declared. “You’ve never seen
anything like it.”
Eventually, about four of the
braver spirits volunteered to
accompany him; they set off
late in the evening. By the
time they found the spot and
started to dig the boys were
terrified. They cast anxious
glances around them at the
lengthening shadows, half-
expecting to see the murderer
bearing down upon them. But
when Riley shovelled up the
bones and they saw the phos-
phorescent light, they dropped
their shovels in horror.
“There they are! “ cried
Riley triumphantly. “T h e
bones of”
But that was quite enough.
One of the boys turned and
started racing back to camp.
Immediately, the others tore
after him.
Within seconds," the clearing
was empty.
That night Riley pinned a
pound-note to the gumtree
when he issued his challenge.
After the evening performance,
he felt he could have pinned a
tenner up without the slightest
risk, and he forgot about the
pound-note and played table-
tennis with the boys until ten-
o’clock that night.
About eleven-o’clock, Riley
let himself quietly out of a side-
door and went down to collect
(Continued on page 41)


they were going well if they
could cover 10 miles a day.
All the time the two ex-pilots
were on the lookout for air-
field-sites. When the job was
completed an air-route was
chosen and aerodromes built
which were in use for the
following 20 years.
McGinness and Fysh were
at Darwin on December 10,
1919, when the England-
Australia race was won by
Ross Smith and his team, in
their Vickers-Vimy; Smith
later touched-down at Broad-
smith’s Mascot aerodrome in
Sydney. Fysh described the
Smith landing as “one of the
greatest thrills of my life”; it
was the first plane ever to fly
to Australia.
Then a stroke of luck:
“Ginty,” en route to a picnic,
came on a car stuck in the dry
bed of the Cloncurry River.
The airman rescued the car ;
its owner was one Fergus
McMaster, a station-owner,
later to become an original
shareholder in Qantas.
Meanwhile Fysh was becom-
ing more and more convinced
that the Northern Territory and
west Queensland could do with
an airline. Despite the fact
that the aeroplane was widely
regarded as a novelty, Fysh and
McGinness managed to get the
support of several people in
the Cloncurry district. So in
Show Week at Brisbane in
1920, McMaster, McGinness,
Fysh, A. N. Templeton (a
station - owner) and Alan
Campbell (a Brisbane stock-
and-station agent) met in dis-
cussion ; the result of which,
says Ellison, was “virtually the
foundation of Queensland and
Northern Territory Aerial
Services.”
Perhaps the most noteworthy
of the host of pilots Qantas
employed was Lester Brain, the
youngest and, if Ellison’s
anecdote is a criterion, prob-
ably the most resourceful of
the company’s airmen:
Late one afternoon a woman tried
to charter a plane immediately to
fly two hundred miles away; she
had just learnt that her husband was
critically ill. Immediate flight was
impossible, said Brain. He explained
that there were no night-flying
facilities; most of the flight would
be in the dark, and the destination
paddock was unlighted. But the wife
pleaded.so piteously that Brain made
the flight. Night fell quickly. The
cockpit was not illuminated; the
pilot did not even have a torch.
This was flying by guess and by God.
But eventually and providentially,
as the plane neared its destination, a
travelling car was seen by the pilot.
On his memory of what the car
headlights had revealed ahead, the
pilot came down in pitch darkness.
There was only minor damage to the
aircraft. A lot of luck, yes. But
also a lot of flying skill and bush
wisdom, and not a little guts.
A big Qantas achievement
was its collaboration with Rev.
John Flynn (“Flynn of the
Inland”) in establishing the
Flying Doctor Service. All
outstations in western Queens-
land and the Northern Terri-
tory had to be equipped with
pedal-wireless, and all messages
were received at the mother-
station in Cloncurry by a
professional operator. The
Flying Doctor had a fair slab
of territory to cover —about
250,000 square miles—but, as
Ellison says, the Service has
“become as much in the
pattern of life in outback
Queensland and the Territory
as are the telegraph and Royal
Mail.”
Ellison, as mentioned previ-
ously, is good on anecdote.
Take, for instance, his account
of Lord Stonehaven’s arrival at
Norman ton:
This was the first time Normanton
had had a visit from a Governor-
General, and, to do honor in a big
way, the organisers had an inscribed
address of welcome prepared in the
capital city. This was read at the
official welcome. But the reader, a
tugged citizen, stuipbled and
bumbled badly.
Finally, in desperation, he said,
“Here, your Governorship, read the
bloody thing yourself!” In the
most friendly and natural way, Lord
Sionehaven coped with the situation.
By the time the drinks were in
effective circulation, the local
burghers were calling their guest
“your Honor,” “your Worship,”
and finally “Guv.”
Arthur Butler
■CLLISON gives a chapter to
Arthur Butler, whose
company today bears his name;
his airline kicked-off with a
staff of four and two twin-
engine eight - seaters (D.H.
Dragons), cruising-speed of
100 m.p.h. At that time Butler
operated a weekly return-
service between Charleville and
Cootamundra, with inter-
mediate stops at Narromine
and Bourke.
And Butler was connected
with the fastest-ever peace-
time acquisition of flying-
fields. It happened after he
had suggested to the Depart-
ment of Civil Aviation that he
should have a couple of
emergency flying-fields; at
half-past-seven on a Sunday
morning Major Mann, Superin-
tendent of Aerodromes, rang
Butler and said he wanted to
get moving. Ten minutes later
Mann was at Butler’s home ;
before lunch Mann selected
two sites. Two days later the
fields were equipped, ready for
use . . .
Butler designed and built
the first all-metal Australian
aircraft to get its certificate of
airworthiness, and, in 1932, he
set an England-Australia solo
record in the smallest aircraft
ever to fly that route. He was
the first airlines man in Aus-
tralia to be elected chairman
of the Institute of Transport,
and the only airlines man to
be a ‘ member of the N.S.W.
Transport Commission.
In the Second World War
Butler tumed-out aircraft com-
ponents for the Government at
such a low cost departmental
people doubted the figures. And
when Butler Air Transport got
its first Dakotas (converted by
the company to DC-3’s) they
had the first inbuilt landing-
steps used on an airliner. All
in all it’s pretty good going ;
and Butler’s company was
established at a time when
several other aircraft .concerns
were well in the field.
There’s a priceless bit of
Ellison anecdote in his 11th
chapter ; on this occasion Elli-
son was taking the famous
pilot Jim Mollison (he’d estab-
lished a solo record on the
England-Australia skyway) for
a drink at a Phillip Street
(Sydney) pub:
The first time I took Jim Mollison
to the “blood-house” [the pub;
christened by journalists] for a drink,,
he wore a suede flying jacket and
suede shoes, his trousers were en
suite, he carried a suede flying helmet
and effulgent gloves, and his hair
was “just so.” So was his voice.
When I asked him what he was
going to drink, he pondered a
moment and then said, “Yes, I
think I’ll have a be-ah,” Like a
flash, Olga, the barmaid, asked,
“Brown, black, or grizzly?”
And so it goes; anecdote
follows anecdote with steady
breeziness, until one arrives at
Part Two, titled “Air Master
Supreme.”
Kingsford Smith
TT’S some indication of Elli-
son’s regard for Smithy that
he gives him just under half of
the book. In a brief foreword
Ellison explains his reasons for
this biography: “Some of his
(Smithy’s) intimates suggested
that I write a biography of
Charles Kingsford Smith,” he
explains. “I agreed to do the
job.” Smithy’s late mother said
she’d help on the condition
Ellison didn’t make Charles
perfect. She helped by making
available several hundred of
Smithy’s letters, which Ellison
quotes liberally; and which,
one feels, give a far clearer
picture of the famous airman
than could possibly be
attempted without them.
Smithy was the youngest of
a family of seven children ; his
interest in mechanics dated
from when he was four, when
he wrote to Santa Claus for
“a train with piston-rods to
make the wheels go round.”
The Kingsford Smiths were
then living in Sydney.
Two years later, on the
recommendation of the eldest
boy, Harold, doing well in real-
estate on Vancouver, most of
the Smitns (Mr. and Mrs. and
four children, including
Smithy) went there, too, in
1903. In 1907 the family,
excepting Harold, returned to
Sydney, and Smithy went to
school —St. Andrew’s Cathedral
Choir School. A Bondi inci-
dent nearly ended Smithy’s
earthly singing disobeying
two elder cousins, Smithy went
in, got swept out in a strong
undertow and had to be
rescued. He was unconscious
when they brought him in, and
only \\ hours’ hard work by
a doctor and a nurse saved
him.
On his 18th birthday Smithy
enlisted in the A.1.F.: as
Corporal C. K. Smith, 4th
Signal Troop, Australian Light
Horse Brigade, he left from
Sydney for overseas service on
June 12, 1915. He saw quite
a bit of the war as a motor-
cycle dispatch-rider before, in
late 1916, he decided to transfer
to the Royal Flying Corps. In
November of that year he went
to the Cadet Battalion of the
R.F.C. in Denham, England, to
begin training.
Five hours of solo flying,
according to Ellison, 16 land-
ings and one crash ended
Smith’s course of elementary
flying. Then he went to A
Squadron of the Central Fly-
ing School, Upavon, to do his
advanced course, from which
he graduated with “wings.”
The year 1917 saw Smithy in
France, and there is all the
exuberance of a young war-
bird in his letter home on
July 14, 1917:
Just a short note this time, to let
you know that I’m all right, etc. I
got my first Hun this morning.
Eight of us attacked about 20 Huns


m,
m
■ Ss '■
s/S'/x
II
m
M-
(M
.Si
\
- r
mmn
\2M am j
I rn :■:>:> >
-is i
“*jS
St 1
t| ||il
li
1?s I
\L/
Sjj
I T
XL fxj
V! > -■
ISIS!
) ! I if||!
*an
£T-
Two ways of looking
at a hold-up • • •
It can be a blessing. Take the Stamina hold-up, for example —■
the elastic waist, self-supporting hold-up in Stamina’s new
style, self-supporting boys’ knickers. Now, there’s something
wonderful! No shirt-waist buttons to worry about; no
troublesome belt; those knickers are adjustable. They
have a button-adjustment on the waist, and a generously
wide hem. They look smarter and they last longer.
Stamina.
ELASTIC UIRIST
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
and had the dickens of a fight. To
get away from somebody else, one
of the Huns dived across in front
of me. So I got my sight on, and
let him have about 50 rounds before
he could get out of the way. 1 had
the satisfaction of seeing him chuck
up his arms and fall back. The
machine glided on for a little while
and then nose-dived straight for the
gjoitnd . . .
And, on August 10:
I got another Hun this morning.
We were out at 4.30 a.m., looking
for something to strafe. I saw this
chap flying very low just beyond the
Hun trenches. So I dived and fired
ai him, driving him back into Hun-
land, and lower down all the time,
until he hit the ground and turned
right over . . .
On August 14 Smithy was
wounded in the foot by a burst
of machine-gun fire and was
invalided back to England to
recuperate. While he was in
hospital he was awarded the
M.e.
Smithy returned to Sydney
in March, 1918, on six months’
furlough, went back to an air-
instructing job in England,
was made a Flight Com-
mander, flew just about every
type of plane there was and a
few more besides, and by then
the war was over.
Still in England, Smithy’s
first major post-war step was
to enter a Great-Britain-to-
Australia air-race; at least he
moved heaven and earth to get
into the race. The race was
organised by the Common-
wealth Government of Aus-
tralia, and £IO,OOO was offered
to “the first pilot who should
accomplish the flight, in an
aeroplane or seaplane, in 720
consecutive hours (30 days).”
Smithy saw the competition as
a chance to enter Australian
aviation with a name and
wealth.
As things turned out, Smithy
didn’t get into the race; a long
story, which Mr. Ellison sets
out in detail.
Then there was Smithy’s
commercial air-project, which,
concentrating on passenger-
flights and aerial joy-rides, got
its operators—Smithy, Mad-
docks and Hudson —a bit of
handy cash ; but, at the onset
of winter, business fell away
sharply, and Smithy was
obliged to sell the company.
He then scraped his way across
to his brother Harold’s home
in Oakland, California, U.S.A.
There Smithy got wind of a
trans - Pacific flight worth
: 50,000 dollars; his problem
was to get a machine, let
alone financial backing. But
Ince, the man who had offered
the prize, suddenly withdrew
-his offer —“now that he sees
someone really wants to try
(Continued on page 56)


Joe Cahill’s Trip
to New York
THOSE who recall the children's card-
game, “Peter Coddle's Trip to New
York,” will remember that much amuse-
ment used to be derived from the im-
probable contents of Peter's carpet-bag,
their nature being determined by the
chance drawing of cards printed with
such legends as “a sick cockroach,” “a
broken-down threshing-machine,” “a wall-
eyed Chinaman” or “a fried flathead.”
When N.S.W. Premier Cahill sets out
for New York his carpet-bag will be
notable not so much for the strange things
he packs into it as for the strange things
he leaves behind. This is not intended
to reflect on the personal appearance of
his Cabinet colleagues ; the reference is to
the odd assortment of unfinished business,
loose ends and half-gnawed probiems Joe
will be only too pleased to leave behind
him for a while.
Cahill announced last week that there
would be no early election. This should
have surprised no one, After his party’s
sorry showing at the Wagga by-election he
may be expected to postpone his appeal
to the electors as long as possible—and
that could take the present Parliament
well into next year.
It is not likely that Cahill will try to
repeat the peculiar antics which preceded
last poll. In October, 1955, he announced
that an election would be held on
December 3, giving as his reason for
choosing that date when his Parliament
could legally have run four or five months
longer the explanation that he didn’t want
to clash with a possible Federal election
in April. A fair and reasonable explana-
tion, too —except that every political dog
in Sydney had been barking that Menzies
had fixed December 3 or 10 for a Federal
election. Cahill added that he felt that
State and Federal issues should be kept
separate a rather surprising statement
frprn a man who had won his previous
election by capitalising public discontent
with Federal financial policy.
Coincidence
TT was sheer coincidence, of course, that
the decision for a snap election came
only a week or so after the Liberal Opposi-
tion had changed its leader for the second
time in a year. Coincidence, too, that
Cahill had just prepared (and subsequently
gagged-through Parliament) two vote-
catching • bills —one to restore quarterly
adjustments on State awards and the other
to extend long-service leave to employees
under Federal awards. And, of course,
the sudden desire to divorce his State
party from any Federal ties had nothing
to do with the fact that Dr. Evatt, speak-
ing in Canberra in the Petrov debate, had
just disclosed his pen-friendship with
Molotov, to the astonishment and dismay
of many of his colleagues. The election
was ultimately postponed till March, and
Cahill scraped back with his majority
badly mangled.
No, the polling-date will certainly be
something he’ll leave till after his trip to
New York.
Sydney City Council
A NOTHER election problem worrying
Cahill and his party concerns the
Sydney City Council —it has always been
a matter of prime policy for his Govern-
ment to devise ways of making the
council safe for Labor, and the goal
seemed to have been achieved when legis-
lation wiped-out several inner-suburban
councils and added their voting-strength
(mainly Labor) to the city rolls.
Unfortunately for the planners, it
turned out that although Labor controlled
the City Council not all the controllers
were the right brand of Labor. Further-
more, neither brand was immune from
the charges of graft which towards the
end of 1953 were being thrown around
Sydney with reckless abandon. Quick
action was called for and quick action
was taken, A.L.P. nominations for the
council election then pending were can-
celled and Cahill rushed two bills through
Parliament. The first of these abolished
the ward-system (long a sheet-anchor of
local-government) and substituted pro-
portional-representation ; the second—the
Sydney City Council (Disclosure of
Allegations) Act became infamous
throughout the English-speaking world as
the Press Gag Act.
Labor control of the council was
assured, but the machinery which
guaranteed this also permitted Com-
munists and D.L.P. men to gain election
to the council, which, to say the least,
has not made it the cosy club intended by
the framers of the legislation. Some
D.L.P. aldermen and some of the Civic
Reformers are even reviving old stories
of nepotism and preferment in council
jobs. Clearly the time has come for
further changes and apparently they’re on
the way. Proportional-representation,
lauded by Labor five years ago as the
most democratic method of election, is
apparently too democratic, so out it must
go.
The ward-system, no longer out-of-date,
is to come back again. Not the same old
wards, but some brand-new ones. Details
of these moves are to be worked-out later.
Cahill needn’t pack them in his bag,
though while he’s in New York it mightn’t
be a bad idea for him to call in at
Tammany Hall for a few tips.
Homes and Credit
TTOUSING is another thing Cahill will
be able to leave thankfully behind. By
the time his ship sails his all-sections
housing conference will have had its get-
together and, if Cahill and the Sydney
daily press have their way, will have
agreed that the only thing preventing
more homes being built is the Federal
Government’s credit-policy. It is to be
hoped that some of the delegates will draw
the Premier’s attention to the fact that
although the injection of more credit into
the building-industry might be the means
of providing more homes throughout the
Commonwealth, it could, of itself, do
nothing to improve the position in New
South Wales relative to other States.
Statistics published last year showed that
in the decade following the 1947 census
N.S.W. made less progress than any other
State towards closing the housing-gap.
Its record has not improved since. A
factor that cannot be without influence in
this is the Cahill Government’s persistent
vendetta against private landlords. Its
Landlord and Tenant Act, ostensibly
designed to protect helpless tenants against
rapacious landlords, has so effectively
taken the profit out of house-letting that
the building of rental-homes has ceased
altogether. In addition to that, the diffi-
culty of repossessing a house once let
keeps empty many houses which might
otherwise be available for renting foi
limited periods. Cahill’s Land Tax also
discriminates against the landlord.
Better Left Behind
THE carpet-bag isn’t likely to include
a copy of the Ebasco report, which
tells the Premier how to save millions on
his railways, but it’ll be a relief to him
to get away for a while from the voices
of the railway unions which keep on
telling him what'll happen to him if
he follows Ebasco’s advice.
He can, moreover, leave his Loan
Council worries behind him, having, by
the simple process of asking Canberra
for an extra £l2l million, succeeded in
getting £3 million, which is probably more
than he expected, anyway.
A minor piece of left-behind luggage
will be the report of the Liberal M.L.A.s
who have been investigating conditions
in Cahill’s jails. Labor M.L.A.s, usually
most assiduous in professing their zeal for
prison-reform, declined to co-operate in
the tour of the jails, though, strangely
enough, several of them were quite eager
to join Monaro Enticknap in taking-up the
cudgels on. behalf of the graziers from
Snowy River, who claim to have been
falsely accused (by the Cahill Govern-
ment) of causing erosion on the roof of
Australia.
Such embarrassing trifles as Tom
Dougherty’s demand for the abolition of
the Legislative Council; the Country
party’s perennial request for the comple-
tion of the Sandy Hollow railway;
remembrances of the Eastern Suburbs
railway; Abe Landa’s satellite-town at
Minto ; Opera House lotteries; jackpot-
totes—all these can be safely left out of
the bag. In fact, they’ll have to be. Other-
wise there’ll be no room in it for all thftt
Joe is going to bring back in the way
of new industries, American capital and
so on.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
Dubbo stamped himself one
of the best three-year-old
sprinters ever to race in this
country wlien he led from
barrier to post in last Satur-
day’s Oakleigh Plate. The
Newtown Wonder , gelding
made light of his wide barrier-
position—ls—and his heavy
weight—B.B—to cut out the
furlongs of the race in 1.3 9/10,
which equalled the record
Adelina set last year.
• • • •
Caulfield Selections:
Futurity Stakes: Highfire,
1 ; Kingster, 2 ; Copper Year,
&
Merson Cooper Stakes:
Misting, 1 ; Master Rane, 2 ;
Sir Blink, 3.
• • • •
Dubbo has now won seven
of his 11 starts, and has earned
in stake-money £8337, includ-
ing the Oakleigh first-prize of
£2500. He has been entered
for the Newmarket Handicap
to be run at Flemington on
March 1, for which he has been
handicapped at 8.12. His Oak-
leigh Plate win makes him
subject to a penalty of up to
101 b. Weight-carrying record
for a three-year-old in the New-
market was set by Ajax when
he lumped 9.0 in 1938. Should
Dubbo be penalised to carry
more than 9.0 his connections
may decide the task is too
severe.
Although Dubbo won the
Plate with something in hand,
both New Spec and Copper
Year, who filled the places,
ran well enough to hearten
their supporters in the New-
market. New Spec’s form was
particularly good. He was
drawn even wider than Dubbo
and chased that horse all the
way. Like the winner, New
Spec is by Newtown Wonder.
• • • •
Dubbo’s win completed a
hat-trick for Sydney horses in
the Oakleigh Plate. Two years
ago Lucky Stride won the race
and last year Adelina (like
Dubbo, trained by Tommy
Smith) was successful.
• • • •
Shock of the day’s racing at
Caulfield was Tulloch’s defeat
by Prince Darius in the nine-
furlongs w.f.a. St. George
Stakes. It was strange to see
the colt who had treated all
opposition with disdain last
spring struggling hopelessly to
match strides with Prince
Darius over the final furlong
of the race.
Excuses can and have been
made for the champion’s
defeat. He was racing first-up
after a three months’ spell,
whereas the winner had the
benefit of a hard race in the
Flying Handicap at Rosehill a
fortnight ago; the race was
run for the first half-mile at
snail’s pace, and Moore on
Tulloch was forced to go to
the front too soon, leaving the
other colt last run . . . but,
when all that is said, the doubt
remains whether Tulloch will
“ Don't you know bikinis are prohibited here!”
ever again be the all-conquer-
ing champion he was in the
spring. He may be ; certainly
he will be a better horse next
time he races.
• • • •
All the same, he looks too
light for this stage of his
preparation, whereas Prince
Darius, a strikingly handsome
chestnut, has developed into a
magnificent horse.
• • • •
The two colts are due to
meet again in the Queen Eliza-
beth Stakes at Flemington on
March 1, and Victoria’s best
horse, Sailor’s Guide, will
tackle the pair of them. The
rape should delight the Queen
Mothers who will be at
Flefiiittiton on that day. Prince
Darius has now won £18,701,
while Tulloch’s £5OO second-
prize lifted his earnings to
£52,297 10s.
Sad feature of racing at Caul-
field was the complete break-
down of Sandhurst, whose
spring form earned him the
rating of Australia’s best two-
year-old. During the running
of the First Trenton Stakes the
colt fractured both sesamoids
of the near foreleg. Normally
a horse suffering such an
accident would be destroyed
immediately, but at time of
writing veterinary surgeons
were trying to save Sandhurst
for the stud. Doug Wheel-
house, owner of Sandhurst, said
after the race that the colt was
insured for £lO,OOO.
Sandhurst was travelling so
comfortably in second position
when he broke down that he
would almost certainly have
won. The race went to Nilento,
who has now won on three
successive Saturdays. This page
suggested a couple of weeks
ago that Nilento would turn out
a good galloper, and that fore-
cast has certainly been justified.
Indeed, the Nilo gelding’s hat-
trick of wins prove he is little
short of top-class.
• • • •
Sailor’s Guide, whose
nomination for last Saturday’s
St. George Stakes apparently
went astray in the post, gave
an exhibition-gallop immedi-
ately after the running of that
race last Saturday. He galloped
three furlongs alone and was
then picked up by Aboukir at
the six. The pair went stride
for stride to the line, with
Aboukir just beating “Sailor”
home. Time for the complete
gallop was approximately
1.51 8/10, much faster than
Prince Darius’s 1.55 3/10 in the
St. George Stakes. Sailor’s
Guide looked a picture, and
will be a force in the weight-
for-age events of the autumn.
After a run of minor plac-
ings, the Chavey Down filly La
Strada broke through for a win
in the five-furlongs Teppo
Stakes. The filly is raced by
the executors of the estate of
the late-Les Aldridge. Les
Aldridge owned the Kismet
Park stud at Sunbury, and La
Strada was one filly he did not
put in the sale-ring. He liked
the look of her as a yearling,
and intended to race her him-
self. Another filly he intended
to keep for himself was Posh,
who has also been a winner ; so
his judgment was as sound as
one might expect from such an
experienced studmaster. In the
Teppo Stakes La Strada came
home very strongly, and she
could win again over a longer
distance than Saturday’s race.
• • • •
Most improved handicapper
in Melbourne is the five-year-
old Carbon Copy mare, Lady
Replica. Her win in the mile-
and-a-half Bond Handicap at
Caulfield was her third within
eight days. Last Saturday week
she won the Moe Cup, last
Wednesday the Pakenham Cup.
And she ran the mile-and-a-
half of the Bond Handicap in
the very good time of 2.28 7 /10.
Tulloch’s Caulfield and Aus-
tralian record for the distance is
2.26 9/10. The mare’s remark-
able patch of form has taken
her connections by surprise.
She is raced by Mrs. I. A.
Willmott and trained by her
husband, M. L. Willmott, who
said after the running of the
Bond Handicap that he had not
entered the mare for the Aus-
tralian Cup because he did not
consider her good enough. On
Saturday’s run she would have
been nearly favorite for the
Cup.
• • • •
Main race at Caulfield next
Saturday—second day of the
V.A.T.C.’s autumn carnival —
will be the seven-furlongs
Futurity Stakes, offering £4OOO
stake-money plus a gold cup
valued at £250. The race is a
. weight - for - age event, with
penalties and allowances.
• • t •
The Futurity dates to 1898.
It would be hard to suggest
any race in the Australian
Turf Calendar which has been


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines).
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
won by so many champion
gallopers. Some of the
winners: Eurythmic, Gothic,
Phar Lap, Waltzing Lily, Ajax,
High Caste, Bernborough,
Attley, Royal Gem. Ajax won
the race in three successive
years, 1938 -39 - 40. Bill
Williamson holds riding honors
for the race —he has ridden the
winner four times. Attley and
Ajax share the time-record,
1.24.
Another race which will
create a lot of interest at Caul-
field next Saturday is the Mer-
son Cooper Stakes, a six-fur-
long event for two-year-olds,
offering £2500 stake-money.
The pity is that Sandhurst will
not be in the field. However,
the strong field will probably
include Misting, who defeated
Dubbo in the Lightning Stakes
at Flemington, and Master
Rane, who has won six races
straight.
* * *
Tulloch’s 9.7 in the Sydney
Cup seems a terrific load, even
for a champion three-year-
old ; and perhaps he won’t be
asked to hump it over a tough
two miles —one of the surest
ways to discourage an owner
of a crack performer is to sock
the weight on for a leading
handicap. But the A.J.C.
weight-adjuster may be proved
right in his opinion that
Tulloch should carry 191 b.
above the weight - for - age
scale. Sailor’s Guide, who
shares topweight with the out-
standing three-year-old, won
the Sydney Cup at that age
with w.f.a. (8.2). „
The Cup will be run at
Randwick on April 7. Carbine
won it in 1889 as a three-year-
old with 9 stone, biggest weight
successfully carried by a three-
year-old, and his son Wallace
scored with 8.12 in 1896.
Tulloch had 8.4 or 121 b. over
w.f.a. in the Melbourne Cup,
but he didn’t keep the engage-
ment. Anyone who backs him
for the Sydney two-miler before
the owner makes up his mind
about it stands a good chance
of burning his fingers. *
Prince Darius’s 8.8 in the
Cup also seems plenty—it’s
61b. above the w.f.a. scale.
But Straight Draw’s 8.13 seems
an invitation to run. He won
the A.J.C. Metropolitan Handi-
cap with 7.13 and the Mel-
bourne Cup with 8.5 earlier
this season. Two-thirds of the
Cup entrants have less than
7.8.
Golden Tone had the right
form for the Hawkesbury Two-
year-old Maiden (fillies divi-
sion), and backers, as expected,
had to lay odds-on. Golden
Tone won a small prize in
comparison with her (2000gns.)
cost as a yearling at the Rand-
wick sales in April of last
year. She followed Staratom
into the sale - ring; that
Brisbane filly won her first race
three days before Golden Tone
opened her account. Both
youngsters are products of
Fairways Stud, Muswellbrook
(N.S.W.). Golden Tone is by
Star Kingdom (imp.) from
High Cee by Gilt Edge from
Curtail by Heroic and belongs
to a smart winning family ; her
nearest relatives, Beau Caste,
Bon Caste, Relaxation and
Oracle, all won races. Her
dam High Cee did not sport
silk.
Snow Castle, easy winner of
Canterbury Park mid-week
First Two-year-old Maiden,
started at long odds despite a
close second to Johnno at the
same track four days earlier.
The grey gelding would have
been at a much shorter price
only for the presence in the
field of the T. J. Smith-trained
New Patrol, which was quoted
at threes on but missed a place.
Snow Castle cost 350gns. as a
yearling, was bred by G. B. S.
Falkiner at his Haddon Rig
stud, Warren (N.S.W.), and is
by Snow Star from Harlaw by
Hua from Harula by Harinero
(imp.). Dark Chief, winner of
the A.J.C. Summer, Cup and
of the Moonee Valley Cup,
figures in Snow Castle’s pedi-
gree. New Gem, runaway
winner of the Second Two-
year-old Maiden the same
afternoon, is by Crown Gem
from Romany Rose by Dark
Lover (Fr.) from Rubble by
Plymouth Sound (imp.) from
Mock by Valais (imp.).
When she won Canterbury
Park Third Maiden Two-year-
old in promising style —her
first run in public—Globe
Chatter acted in keeping with
a runaway barrier-trial at
Rosebery and track-gallops at
that suburban course. She is
one of the first progeny of the
imported sire Globetrotter to
race and to win in N. S. Wales,
although the Hyperion stallion
had had a winner or two in
other States. Globetrotter’s
sons and daughters are in their
first racing season. He won
several races in England and
comes from the family which
produced Stefan the Great,
Ajax, Hall Mark, Nuffield and
William the Third. Bred at
Hobartville stud, Richmond
(N.S.W.), Globe Chatter is a
member of Bob Stuart’s team
and is from Persistence by
Felcrag (imp.) from Miss
Roberta by Tomatin, tracing
back to Carbine. The filly
wasn't offered at auction as a
yearling.
Although A 1 Kuwait eased
in betting from 4 to 1 to
double that price for the Second
Parramatta Stakes at Rosehill,
connections gave the Persian
Book gelding a good winning
chance because, four days
before the race, at Rosebery,
A 1 Kuwait had run a faster
gallop than Prince Darius, the
best son of Persian Book.
Prince Darius covered five
furlongs in 1.6-f wide out on
the course proper, but A 1
Kuwait clipped half a second
from that time. Prince Darius
downed Tulloch in Melbourne,
but A 1 Kuwait didn’t go so
well in Sydney. He finished
10th, several lengths from
Kurrawong.
The £6OOO A.J.C. Doncaster
Handicap will be run at Rand-
wick on Saturday, April 5.
Until Saturday last Turkestan
was nominal favorite for the
mile race —the first list issued
by doubles’ bookmakers—but
he has yet to resume racing
following a summer spell.
From now until the Doncaster
draws near there may be
several changes in the betting
order, as each performance by
a well-fancied candidate is
likely to bring alterations.
Already there has been a
change. Squander Lad, Rose-
hill winner of the Flying
Handicap, run at seven fur-
longs, has been elevated to top
of the betting-table. However,
at this stage there is little
wagering on the mile, apart
from doubles with the fancied
Sydney Cup horses.
Squander Lad won his race
in commendable style after
being one of the leaders all the
way. He carried 8.6, or
51b. more than his Don-
caster weight. His time, 1.24|,
was lsec. outside the
race - record. Mandingos,
runner - up, had 8.11, or
41b. above his weight in the
Randwick mile, while Landy,
third with 8.13 (which included
an allowance of 71b. for
apprentice R. Tunsted), had
31b. under his Doncaster
impost.
• • • •
Landy put on a game effort
and made up ground over the
final furlong. Grenoble was
hampered in the middle stages
of the race, otherwise he would
have run much better. He is
particularly fit, and may soon
make amends. Turkestan is
working nicely at Rosebery
and is expected to soon resume
racing.
. y .
Compass was bought
cheaply, for 375gn5., at the
Randwick yearling-sales. He
won his second race in four
starts and landed big bets
when he easily defeated out-
sider Royal Heroic and
Thruster in the Auburn Stakes
at Rosehill. Trained locally by
Tom Kennedy ; the colt had
shown the stable a winning
gallop, and, in prior races,
staying possibilities. He ran
out the If mile without effort,
being last at the half-mile. Ray
Selkrig rode with judgment,
reserving the three-year-old for
a final burst. Compass is by
Channel Swell (imp.), from
Midsuma by Midstream (imp.),
from Tsuma by Spearhead
(imp.), so he has staying blood.
One of his relatives, Advocate,
won the Victoria Derby and
was placed in the A.J.C.
Metropolitan and in the Caul-
field Cup. It is likely Compass
will be an S.T.C. Cup runner
on March 22.
• • • •
Fire Flash has 8.5 in the
Sydney Cup. He won the
Rosehill Handicap with 8.7,
which included an allowance
of 31b. for apprentice R.
Williams. The four-year-old
has quickly entered calcula-
tions for the two-miler. The
Rosehill win was his first since
scoring over 13 furlongs at
Brisbane in June of last year.
Fire Flash' has an imported
sire, Brimstone, and an
imported dam, Farmington,
and is bred to stay the Cup
distance. Brimstone won in
England to If mile, and his
sire, Dante, was a Derby


THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
The Perfect Hotel
For BUSY Men and Women
Right in the heart of the city, the
Hotel Metropole is the ideal place to
stay during your Sydney business
trip and at the same time you’ll find
its pleasant atmosphere really
relaxing.
Only a step away from Sydney's
main business offices and handy to
shops and all forms of transport —
The Hotel Metropole combines
convenience and comfort with the
relaxed, friendly atmosphere that
has for years made it Australia’s
friendliest Hotel. Over 400 rooms
all with telephone and hot and cold
water (85 with private bathrooms),
luxurious ultra-modern suites, day
and night room-service, fine, enter-
taining facilities and magnificent
dining-room and cellar make the
Hotel Metropole THE hotel for
busy men and women.
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Where It’s Never
Too Much Trouble
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
winner. Farmington is by
Colombo from Roxina by
Diophon. Roxina was a half-
sister to Tiberius, a winner of
the Ascot Gold Cup and the
Goodwood Cup. Gallant
Leader, a winner at Randwick
at \\ mile, is a half-brother to
Fire Flash.
Excuses were put forward
for the easy defeat into third
place of the odds-on favorite
Bold Pilot in the Two-year-old
Handicap at Rosehill, almost
to the exclusion of the brilliant
win by Cerasus. Jockey M.
Schumacher saw to it that any
followers would be kept busy
getting near him once the gates
flew open. He opened up a
big lead and was being eased-
up at the finish to score by
four lengths from Ginger Nell,
with Bold Pilot third. Trainer
Fred *Shean was confident of
the result, as he reckoned Bold
with 9.7, had to be
good to beat Cerasus, who is
in winning form —this was his
fourth win in succession.
Queenslander Achn acary
made his first Sydney appear-
ance when he finished a eood
second to Duke o’ Fields in
the Rosehill First Parramatca
Stakes. At no stage did he
look like reversing the posi-
tions, but he should pay his
way in Sydney in suitable races.
The son of Genetout (imp.)
was made warm favorite for
the race, following good
winning-form in Queensland
and smart track-gallops the
week before the Rosehill race.
* * *
“Sawtell”: Last season the
progeny of Masthead (imp.)
won 43 races at metropolitan
race-meetings in five States.
They are carrying on the good
work this season, having
already notched 16 wins in
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and Perth. Masthead
is a son of Blue Peter, who
died in England recently, and
has proved the best of a number
of Blue Peter horses who found
their way to Australian studs.
* * *
“Bicky”: Caulfield (Vic.)
horse-trainer Jerry Tie, who
always has a useful horse or
two in his stables, and who
recently won races at Morning-
ton and Ballan, must surely
claim the title as Australia’s
oldest active trainer. He is in
his 90th year.
* * *
Trotting
Champion mare Sibelia has
earned herself a start in the
Inter-Dominion championship
by brilliantly winning the llf-
furlongs Harold Park Handi-
cap on Saturday night from
the 12yds. mark. Starting at
2 to 1, Sibelia was badly
pocketed for a third of the
journey. Driver J. D. Watts
pulled her out and raced her
three wide for a couple of laps,
gradually overhauling the
leaders, Highland Jan and
Victory Dale. About two
furlongs from home she took
the lead with a brilliant burst
and was never headed,
although King Ranji (scr.)
threw out a strong challenge
to get within half-a-length of
Sibelia. Malniri was third, a
further 1| length away. High-
land Jan’s chances were marred
by - her locking wheels with
Victory Dale.
+ +
And Sundry Sports
In a thrilling mile-race in
the W.A. championships at
Leederville Oval (Perth) Herb
Elliott beat Merv Lincoln by
a fraction, both runners being
clocked at 3.59.6. Lincoln ran
on Elliott’s heels throughout,
except at one point in the last
lap when Lincoln drew level;
but Elliott then forged ahead
again. The race was in large
measure a repetition of the
twilight run at Olympic Park,
Melbourne, on Jan. 30, when
Elliott, the winner, was timed
at 3.58.7 and Lincoln 3.59.
* * *
Australia v. South Africa:
Australia won the fourth cricket
Test at Johannesburg, and accord-
ingly took out the series. Australia
had won the second Test, and the
first and third were drawn. As with
Cheetham’s South Africans in Aus-
tralia in 1952-53, Craig’s side was
“written-off” before the series
began; but, as with Cheetham’s side
also, those opinions had to be
revised.
Even though in the two drawn
Tests, particularly in the third Test
at Durban, the advantage lay with
South Africa, and even though South
Africa may possibly have been able
to make a draw of the fourth Test
had skipper Van Ryneveld been
fully fit both times when he batted
—despite all this, it can still be
said that Australia deserved its vic-
tory in the series. At the end of
the fourth day of the fourth Test,
South Africa seemed likely to save
the game, but collapsed next
morning.
The two teams, as they lined-up,
were in the main fairly evenly
matched; but, all round, Australia
did have the edge. Both sides
had a solid, defensive batting array
(Burke, Mackay, McDonald, as
against McGlew, Waite, Goddard
and Endean); one or two freer
hitters (Harvey, Benaud, Craig and
Davidson, against Van Ryneveld,
McLean and Funston); wicket-
keepers of comparable merit (Grout
and Waite); and a good attack, with
Australia’s, with more variety, the
better (Benaud, Davidson, Meckiti
and Kline against the pace-attack
of Adcock, Heine and Goddard, sup-
ported by Tayfieid—the latter,
incidentally, quelled in particular by
Mackay, was nowhere near the
power in this series that he was
against-England last season).
Possibly the principal real differ-
ence between the two sides lay in
the captaincy. Like England's Peter
May last season in South Africa, lan
Ciaig has, on the whote, tailed with
the bat in the Tests; but the results
speak tor the great job he has done
as leader. He has amply justified
hi;> appointment. Every decision he
has made has been successful (such
as the sending-in early of Benaud
on the hrst day of the fourth Pest),
and he has handled his attack
admirably. He even “called”
correctly three times out of four.
On the other hand, his opposite-
number, Van Ryneveld, hasn’t
known how to wm a match when
victory lay in his grasp.
For individual performance, the
fourth Test was definitely Benaud's.
He followed his hard-hitting 100
with two good bowling-efforts, 4-70
and 5-84. which confirms his world-
ranking as an all-rounder. He’s the
first Australian since War II to make
a century and take five wickets in
the one Test. The other
Australian bowlers all did
their part, with Davidson also play-
ing a very good knock (for 62).
Mackay, with Test scores, of 3, 65
not-out, 63, 32, 52 not-out and 83
not-out, now has the remarkable
batting-average for the series of
99.3.
* * *
Three world-records and five
Australian records were broken
on the first finais-night (last
Saturday) of the 1958 Aus-
tralian swimming champion-
ships at the Olympic Pool,
Melbourne. They promised to
be the first of quite a few new
record-times at the champion-
ships. John Monckton set two
world-records (110yds. and
100-metres) in winning the
110yds. backstroke in 61.5 sec.
The N.S.W. team (Monckton,
backstroke; Gathercole,
breaststroke; Wilkinson,
butterfly; and Devitt, freestyle)
set a new world time (4min.
19.45ec.) for the 4-*-l 10yds.
medley. An interesting result
on Saturday night was Dawn
Fraser’s win in the 440yds.
freestyle, in a new Victorian
time of 4min. 55.75ec. Ilsa
Konrads was second, also
under smin. (4.56.2), with
Lorraine Crapp, who has held
the Australian 440yds. title for
the last five years, coming
fourth. It is the first time that
Lorraine Crapp has been
unplaced in any major title she
has contested.
* * *
Rugby Union international:
When Scotland beat them 12-8 at
Murrayfield on Saturday, the Aus-
tralian Wallabies had lost all four
internationals of their British Isles
tour. Yet all were close, and the
Wallabies led throughout the
greater part of the games; and what-
ever luck was going usually went
to the home side. That applied
to this game against Scotland, when
Australia definitely looked the better
combination.
Australia opened brightly against
Scotland, and after a good passing-
rush by the backs winger Donald
went over in the corner smin. from
the start; Lenehan converted with
a great kick from the touchline into
the wind. Scottish left-winger
Weatherstone then scored, also in
the corner, but Australia went
further ahead when breakaway
Thornett crossed after another good
back-movement.
But that was the extent of the Aus-
tralian scoring. Scottish captain
Arthur Smith kicked a penalty just
before the interval, and straight after
the break put his side in front with
another penalty. Ten-minutes from
the end Australian centre Saxon
White had to be carried off, and
Scottish centre Stevenson was let in
for a try. Curley played another
great game at fullback, Summons
did well at five-eighth, and Miller
and Emanuel were the best of the
forwards.
In the last game between the
two, on Nov. 22, 1947, Australia
beat Scotland 16-7. Scotland was
leading 7-3 at the point in the second
half when its outside-centre Wright
had to go off; after which Australia
put on three more tries (its first
three-points being also from a try)
and converted two of them. On that
occasion Scotland possibly was
unlucky to lose; still, all its points
had come from goals (the dropped
goal then being worth four), and the
game had seemed to be going the
Wallabies’ way anyway.


WHEN YOU VALUE
Old Photographs
why trust them to door to door
canvassers? Send them to a firm
of 20 years’ standing. We will
quote size, coloring, framing,
spotting, etc.
SEND YOUR PHOTOS TO US
PROGRESS PHOTOS,
Midway Arcade,
256 Collins St., Melbourne,
Victoria.
Divorce Notices
TO ALIfERT EDWARD WOODHAMS
formerly of Perth W.A. —T AK E
NOTICE that VICTOR CLARENCE
WERNDLY has commenced proceedings
against his wife VIVIENNE JEAN
WERNDLY for Divorce on the ground
of her adultery naming you as co-
defendant If you desire to defend these
proceedings you must file a Defence in
the Central Office of the Supreme Court
of Western Australia at Perth within
Forty (40) clear days from the date of
this publication. In default of your so
doing the case may proceed and the
Court will pronounce judgment and make
orders against you in your absence.
DATED the 10th day of February, 1958.
—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
JOHN H. O’HALLORAN & CO., of 89
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitors
for the Plaintiff.
1957. (D) No. 289. '
A DIVORCE PETITION HAS BEEN
FILED AGAINST THE UNDERMEN-
TIONED
LEONARD ALBERT BLUNDELL
late of 42 Shakespeare Avenue, Ports-
wood, Southampton, Hants, U.K., who
may apply to the District Registrar,
District Registry of the High Court, at
Southampton, Hants, U.K., for a copy
of the Petition. If within two months
he has not communicated with the
District Registrar, the Court may hear
the case in his absence. At South-
ampton aforesaid,
E. F. G. RHODES, District Registrar.
Missing Friend
HARDIE (or HARDY), Linda (nee
FRESHFIELD), formerly of Sydney,
N.S.W., last heard of in Queensland.
Anybody knowing her whereabouts please
write to RUSSELL-JONES & LIVING-
STONE, Solicitors, 39 Hunter Street,
Sydney. She is a Beneficiary in a
Deceased Estate.
TRAVEL AGENT
ex LONDON
Eight years’ experience all
phases travel wishes to open
Office in Australia. Experienced
in arranging all types European
Tours, speaks fluent French,
German, Italian. At present
Managing Canadian Agency.
Reply care “Bulletin” Office,
BRISBANE.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Two copies of The Bulletin for
March 4, 1953.—6672.
Back-volumes of “The Boys’ Own
Annual.” —6671.
Information Sought
Some details of the Archibald,
Wynne and Sulman art-prizes ?
In terms of the bequest of the late
J. F. Archibald, the Trustees of the
National Art Gallery of N. S. Wales
invite artists to submit paintings in
competition for an annual prize, fo
be awarded for the best portrait,
“preferentially of some man or
woman distinguished in art, letters,
science or politics, painted by any
artist resident in Australasia during
the twelve months preceding the
date fixed by the Trustees for send-
ing in the pictures.” It was first
awarded in 1921 to W. B.
Mclnnes. The Archibald Prize com-
petition is judged by the trustees of
the N.S.W. National Art Gallery.
The Wynne Art Prize is awarded
annually for the best landscape-
painting of Australian scenery in oils
or watercolors, or for the best
example of figure-sculpture by Aus-
tralian artists. First awarded in 1897
to Walter Withers, it is decided by
the trustees of the National Art
Gallery of New South Wales. The Sir
John Sulman Prize is awarded each
year, in terms of the gift of the
family of the late Sir John Sulman,
for the best subject, genre painting
or design for a mural done by any
artist resident in Australia during
the two years preceding the date
fixed by the trustees for submitting
the pictures.
• * * *
Information on the discovery and
uses of penicillin ?
In 1928 Dr. Alexander Fleming,
a bacteriology teacher at London
University, found that mould had
spoiled one of his cultures of
staphylococci. The mould had
cleared a wide, bacteria-free area
on the plate between itself and the
staphylococci. Fleming didn’t
destroy the mouldy culture; he said
he was “sufficiently interested in the
antibacterial substance produced
by the mould to pursue the subject.”
Experimenting, he stuck a loop of
platinum-wire into the mould
colony, then dripped the wire into
some mould-growing liquid in a
test-tube. In less than a week there
was a feltlike growth at the mouth
of the tube and half-an-inch of
cloudy liquid below it. But the
liquid in which the culture grew,
even when diluted 800 times,
prevented staphylococci from grow-
ing at all.
Fleming soon ascertained that, the
liquid didn’t harm white blood-
corpuscles ; that injections of it
didn’t hurt mice and that some
bacteria, such as the whooping-
cough bacillus, could live in the
liquid. Later he found that the
mould was some kind of Penicillium
(from the Latin for pencil, i.e., the
shape of the magnified mouid.)
In 1938 Dr. Howard Florey
organised a research-team to study
the practical extraction of penicillin;
mice were inoculated with a deadly
strain of streptococci, then injected
with penicillin. The test was com-
pletely successful, and Florey set
about getting a human guinea-pig.
His first was a policeman dying of
blobd-infection; at the end of 10
cases Florey was able to announce
that (a) penicillin is effective against
bacteria when injected into muscle
or bloodstream; ( b ) penicillin by
mouth is useless, because it is
destroyed by acid stomach-juices;
(c) penicillin works well in the
presence of blood-serum and pus,
and is therefore an ideal wound
“antiseptic,” and (d) penicillin dis-
appears from the blood in an hour
or so, and about half of it is
excreted in the urine.
* * * *
Brief information on modernist
painter Paul Klee?
Born in Switzerland' in 1879, the
son of a music-teacher of Bavarian
origin and a Swiss mother, he
studied at the Academy of Fine Arts
at Munich, making his career in Ger-
many. Between 1908 and 1910 he
“discovered” C6zanne, Van Gogh
and Matisse. From 1920 to 1929
he taught at the Bauhaus at Weimar,
centre of modernist art, later becom-
ing Professor of Fine Arts at the
Academy in Diisseldorf. Opposed to
Hitlerism, he returned in 1933 to
Switzerland, where he lived till his
death in 1940. A prolific worker,
Klee has been one of the most
controversial of modern artists, but
his painting has had a widespread
influence. In 1925 his reflections
on art were published by the
Bauhaus under the title Pedagogical
Sketchbook. According to Lake
and Maillard’s A Dictionary of
Modern Painting, “No other painter
in the last 30 years has so subtly
touched the emotions or diffused
such bewitching and rare poetic
feeling. Werner Haftmann, his
biographer, has said: ‘He was the
primitive of a new sensibility.’
Klee’s painting plumbs the most
secret depths of the human soul
and opens on mysterious paths.”
* * * *
Some information on the Rocke-
feller Foundation?
On June 29, 1909, John D. Rocke-
feller, Snr., signed a deed of trust,
turning over to three trustees, one
of whom was his son, John D.
Rockefeller, Jnr., shares in the
Standard Oil Company of New
Jersey, to the value of $5O-million,
the trust to be known as the Rocke-
feller Foundation. The purposes
of the trust, as set forth in the
deed, were ‘ r to promote the well-
being and to advance the civilisation
of the peoples of the United States
and its territories and possessions
and of foreign lands in the acquisi-
tion and dissemination of knowledge,
in the prevention and relief of suffer-
ing, and in the promotion of any and
all of the elements of human pro-
gress.” In March, 1910, a bill was
introduced in the U.S. Senate to
incorporate the Foundation, but
there was haggling and delay in Con-
gress over the bill, and the
Foundation did not receive its
charter till 1913. Between 1913 and
1927 the founder donated
& 182,851,480; in 1929 another
Rockefeller endowment, the Laura
Spelman Rockefeller Memorial, with
assets of $58,756,878, was
amalgamated with the Rockefeller
Foundation. (The Rockefeller
Foundation was the chief, although
not the only, organisation endowed
by Rockefeller, Snr.) A lot of very
useful medical and scientific work all
round the world, including Australia,
has been done over the years as the
results of the Foundation’s various
grants. A comprehensive account of
the Foundation and its work is given
in The Story of the Rockefeller
Foundation, by Raymond B.
Fosdick (1952).
* * * •
Recipe for preparing bunya-nuts ?
Break open the cones, extract
nuts, clean and boil in slightly salted
water until soft. An alternative
method is to roast them in an iron
pan over a gentle fire, and treat as
roasted peanuts. In both processes,
nuts may be ground-up in an electric
grinder, or by pestle-and-mortar.
Sometimes the whole cones are put
in the embers of a fire, and eaten
when the seeds pop out.
Brief Answers
Alby: (1) The world premiere of
Australian composer Arthur Ben-
jamin’s opera “The Tale of Two
Cities” was given at the Sadler’s
Wells Theatre on July 23 last year.
Australian baritone John Cameron
sang the role of Sydney Carton. (2)
“Idiot’s Delight,” a comedy in three
acts, was written by the American
playwright Robert Emmet Sherwood.
It was -first produced by the U.S.
Theatre Guild at the National
Theatre, Washington (D.C.), on
March 9, 1936... .Cow-puncher :
No information regarding that
accident. Australian airlines have
an excellent safety-record. On July
24, 1957, Senator Paltridge,
Minister for Civil Aviation, stated
that in the preceding six years
Australian domestic airlines had
carried more than 11-million
passengers on regular air-services
without loss of a single passenger.
K.W.: Yes, they’re going up all
the time. Figures given in “Aus-
tralia in Facts and Figures” (No.
55) show that Australia’s domestic
airlines carried 2,153,875 passengers
in 1956-57 (2,047,433 in 1955-56) and
had flown 926,879,000 passenger-
miles in 1956-57 (860,868,000 in
1955-56). Australia’s international
air-services had carried 76,158
passengers in 1956-57 (64,082 in
1955-56) and had flown 3725550,000
passenger - miles in 1956 - 57
(296 287,000 in 1955-56). ihe 1955-
56 figures were themselves records.
(The tonnage of freight and mail
carried has also been increasing
each year.) C.M.: The 20th
anniversary is a china wedding
Les: You are probably thinking
of President Eisenhower's Cartoon
Book, published by Frederick Fell,
Inc., of New York, in 1956, and
claimed by the publishers to be
“unique.” The book has repre-
sentations of the President drawn by
95 of America’s leading cartoonists,
members of the National
Cartoonists’ Society A.H.H.:
Write Australian Journalists’
Association, 36 Chalmers Sheet,
Sydney.... W.A.W.: Write Fellow-
ship of Australian Writers, 38 Clar-
ence Street, Sydney... .L.H.: The
person named Richmond is unknown,
but might refer to William Henry
Raymond, who rose through the
ranks of the South Australian Police
to Commissioner. He retired on
June 30, 1916 J.G.: France
ended her protectorate over Tunisia
in June, 1955. Tunisian President
Bourguiba has been in office since
then... .A.C.G.: (1) The “Ber-
muda talks” between British Prime
Minister Macmillan and U.S.
President Eisenhower took place on
March 21-24, 1957. (2) See Plain
English article “The Bermuda
Conference” by “Ek Dum” (B.
27/3/’57) —copy posted. (3) Mr.
Macmillan entered the House of
Commons by winning the Stockton-
on-Tees seat in 1924. He was
defeated in 1929, won back the
same seat in 1931 and represented
it till 1945. In that year he again
lost the seat, but re-entered
Parliament shortly afterwards by
winning Bromley at a by-election.
(4) Since the Conservative party
was returned to office in 1951, he
has been Minister for Housing and
Local Government (19^51-54),
Minister for Defence (Oct., 1954,


HOLIDAY RESORTS
Torquay, Victoria,
Offers holiday hookings from
2nd February onwards.
g. r. McCartney,
Victorian Estate Agent.
Phone 366.
to
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O'Connell Sts.,
Sydney.
H. V. Lawry,
Manager.
his money. It was a chilly
night. The moon was
smothered by clouds and the
trees moved restlessly. An
appropriate night, Riley
thought, for the abo.
And, as if to confirm his
reflection, a twig snapped in
the scrub to his left. Riley
stopped to listen. Something
was moving about in the
bushes. A deer, probably.
He picked up a stone, threw
it in the direction of the noise,
and stopped to listen. But
there was no sound. Riley’s
nerves jangled. Was it a deer?
Puzzled, he went on, imper-
ceptibly increasing his speed.
Then, suddenly, he heard it
again. A sibilant rustling in the
scrub to his left. Something
was following him.
The thought disturbed Riley.
He stood still for seconds,
listening.
“Hey!” he called. “Hey,
there! ”
But there was no further
sound. His throat suddenly
dry, Riley walked on. My
nerves, he told himself, must
be bad. That’s what comes of
teaching kids all these years.
As he reflected thus, the
moon emerged from a wrack
of cloud and Riley saw an
electrifying sight. His own
shadow stretched gigantic
before him in a pale plain of
moonlight, but another shadow,
not his own, with the head and
shoulders of a human, moved
slowly back into the darkness.
That was enough for Riley.
He turned and sped back to the
hut; and so confused was he
that it took him a long time to
get the key into the front door
with his fumbling fingers. Then
he wrenched it open.
Instantly, there was a clatter
of billies, tin-cans, buckets, and
a confused yelling and scream-
ing from the suddenly-
awakened boys. There was a
minute of the wildest confusion
as boys yelled for Mr. Riley,
dived under the beds, or
searched frantically for their
weapons in the darkness. Then
someone lit the lamp and they
saw Riley, pale and panting,
amidst the pots and pans.
“Get back to bed,” he said.
morning Riley rose
early and hurried down to
the tree. His pound-note was
gone.
He said nothing about it to
the boys. In fact, he felt a
certain strain in their com-
pany now, and he was glad
when they boarded the train for
the city.
Later, at the railway-station,
he saw Archie buy a milkshake
and pay for it with a pound-
note. Riley was wondering
casually where Archie could
have got a pound-note, and was
about to ask him, when Archie
saw his teacher regarding him
and clearly, deliberately,
winked.
For which reason Riley
didn’t ask his question, and is
quite prepared to go through
life without the answer.
to Apr., 1955), Foreign Secretary
(Apr., 1955, to Dec., 1955),
Chancellor of the Exchequer (Dec.,
1955, to Jan., 1957) and, since Jan.,
1957, Prime Minister... .N.S.: John
Drinkwater wrote the one-act ptay
“Oliver Cromwell,” first published in
Novemoer, 1921... .K.iJ.rJ.:
There’s no rear of that happening.
.E.H.: ivianutacturers' specula-
tions regarding tyre-sizes and
-pressures snouid be followed at atl
times. Running of tyres in a deflated
condition can damage the wail-
structure ot the tyre... .Ex-A.1.r.:
Lieut.-General Sir Stanley fiavige
died in Memourne on May 15, 19j4,
aged 6J. in vVorid War 1 he enlisted
as a private and landed on Gallipoli;
he was commissioned in the hem and
won the ivi.C. in France. In 1916 ne
volunteered lor a dangerous secret
mission in central Persia, in War ii
he first commanded the 17th
Infantry Brigade in Libya, Greece
and Syria, and then had- several
commanos in New Guinea... .L.A.:
The Helms Athletic Foundation was
set-up in 1936 as an “investment in
youth” by Paul Hoy Helms, who
died in January, 1957. An award
is made each year to an athlete in
each of five world-divisions, one of
which is Australasia. Australasian
winners of the Helms award in
recent years have been Merv Wood
(1948), Sid Patterson (1949), John
Marshall (1950), Frank Sedgman
(1951), Marjorie Jackson (1952),
John Landy (1953), Jon Henncxs
(1954), ' Shirley Strickland (1955),
Lorraine Crapp (1956) and Stuart
Mackenzie (1957)... .Ah Foo : The
population of Communist China is
probably not even known to the
Chinese Communist Government.
However, for what it is worth,
Peking Radio announced in June,
1954, that the population of Com-
munist China as at June, 1953, was
601 million... .R.W.: Contact Aus-
tralian Consul-General, 636 Fifth
Avenue, New York, U.S.A
E.G.P.: No record of that com-
pany. Suggest you contact the
Registrar-General in your home
State... .C.H.R.: The law of copy-
right vests the copyright of any
writing in the author, or, in certain
cases, in the person at whose
demand the writing was made.
From that point on the question
of who owns the copyright in a
piece of writing becomes a matter
of contract; the question is what
was the agreement between you and
the magazine quoted? If there was
no agreement about copyright then
you may use the matter again, but
if the copyright conditionally passed
to them, then you may not use the
work again X.X.: Your question
is answered by 546 of the National
Service Act, 1951-53,- sub-section 1
of which suspends a contract of
apprenticeship during the absence
of the apprentice on national-
service. Sub-section 3 provides that
unless the Minister directs otherwise,
the period for which the contract,
is Suspended by sub-section 1 is not
regarded as employment under the
contract (except, of course, for the
renewing of benefits such as leave,
holiday-pay, long-service leave and
other matters arising out of employ-
ment rather than apprenticeship).
The apprentice shall be deemed to
have completed the period of
employment under the contract 13
weeks after June 30, 1957.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
A ame and address must appear on
all MSS. A o liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntar , y
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered jor publication on the
understanding mat tney may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessury.
W.K.: “Heighho, heigho, I singeth
it the dawning.” What are you?
A magpie? ... .Z. 8.: Bowled for a
duck T.S.: “Take note. If you
do not publish this poem I shall not
haunt your precincts again.” The
precincts will miss your blithe
shadow J.J.: Abysmally hope-
less 8.5.: Might have considered
“Dining Room Graces” if the last
line hadn’t been so overcrowded
•with adjectives... .K..M.: “Cave
Paintings” about the best effort
we’ve seen on a subject where most
writers lose themselves in explosions.
... .G.W.L.: Now you’ve done
heaven, hell, eternity and all that,
let’s see what you can do with, say,
a sparrow... .J.H. (S.A.): Not
quite, but they have their points
Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims which state the
section in which paragraphs
appear and the date of
appearance will be paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
D.C.: A touch of music M.D.:
Yes, we asked for R....H.5.:
“Why?” Why? N.H.: A fragile
opal Kamu: Bubbly V.L.:
No bombs,.. .J.P.G.: Well, you’re
a trier:
Things were tough and getting tougher,
Starvation seemed very nigh
When I was offered a job driving
possums
From Geelong to Gundagai.
J.S.H.: Bounding aborigines
bounded out... .A.E.: Admirable
sentiments in very limp verse
K. 5.8.: “If dripping water can wear
a stone, perhaps you can help me.”
Drop by drop we withstood the
assault of your poems and honestly
we couldn’t find a dint in u 5....
H.P.McL: “Pioneers” laid gently to
rest E.A.D.: A helpful hint for
“The Old Storage Tank”? Mend it.
G.K.: It covers the occasion
quite firmly and adequately but adds
little to what has been said so
often before on the same theme....
C. : Unable to acquire first serial
rights to your leprechaun J.H.
(N.S.W.): Except for the flowers,
dusk in India is very much like dusk
anywhere else... .J.H.C.: The wail-
ing woman was at least a surprise.
... .C.R.M.: Pleased to learn that a
moral can be extracted from a
scrubbing-brush... .L.H.8.: We got
as far as the waves that “slabber
with abandon like a swarthy pirate’s
kiss” and then we took a turn on
the plank V.S.S.: Doubt if elves
are of any commercial value....
D. Not quite sure whether you
want them to pay tribute to the
pioneers or read Australian history
or their knees, but anyhow it’s
rather a lot to ask of New Aus-
tralians. .. .D.8.R.: But what makes
it poetry? ... .G.J.G.: On the whole,
“Progress of the Intellectual Soul”
is rather heavy going... .F.W.:
Your gloomy foreboding was but
too well justified... .J J.U.: Too
close to the perilous edge of uncon-
scious humor... .Lavinia: Try a
woman’s paper. ...E.J.0.:
Sentimental... .M.McC.: While
you're hopping about with Hopkins
jt"s a bit difficult to see what you're
leally made 0f.... .J.S.F.: Every
time it rains somebody writes that
poem D.H. (Northern
Rhodesia): You’d do better on the
local market W.M.8.: Try it on
the girl... .R.8.M.: “The Riderless
Horse” got away from u 5....
M.E.FL: All lightweights... .A.P.:
Read some of this century’s poetry.
M.R. (U.S.A.): Toddlers miles
off our beat Roni: Nonny, Roni.
. ...S.G.: Very pleased to put an
end to your “jingle to end all
jingles” M.P.: Fair enough for
fourteen P.F.: All poems about
the vanished aborigines are the same
poem... .E.C.R.: “Milko” watery.
...W.E.E.: Tut... .M.N.C.: The
ballads don’t add anything to Henry
Lawson .. . .G.H.: Not a bad
description of the ’Loo. You might
be able to write short-stories.


UNCABLED
ADDITION S
RUSSIA-PAST AND PRESENT
IN the following article from
the U.S. quarterly
“Problems of Communism,”
British author and historian
Hugh Seton-Watson makes a
qlose examination of one of
the more popular defences of
Soviet Communism that,
whatever the means to the end,
Russia is better-off today than
under the Tsars:
“If we wish, in 1957,
to make a meaningful
comparison, to ask how much
has been achieved in Russia
under the Bolsheviks, whether
the same or more could have
been achieved without them,
and whether the price paid by
the Russian people and by the
whole human race for Lenin’s
triumph is too high or not —
then we must take as the basis
of our comparison the last
working political and social
regime that Russia had before
[1917].
1906-14
“This is, of course, the quasi-
Constitutional system estab-
lished as a result of the un-
successful revolution of 1905
and the reaction which followed
it —the system associated with
the name of Prime Minister
P. A. Stolypin. This system
can be judged on the basis of
eight years of comparatively
‘normal’ conditions, from the
summer of 1906 to the summer
of 1914. The comparison may
best be made in two main fields
—on the one hand, the progress
of civil, intellectual and political
liberties; on the other, the
development of social classes.
“Stolypin’s rule is depicted
by Soviet historians as one of
bloodthirsty reaction. It is true
that he hanged some hundreds
of ievolutionaries and insurgent
peasants in his first months of
power and that he dissolved the
Second Duma, replacing the
earlier franchise law providing
for almost universal suffrage
by one which favored the rich
against the poor and the
Russian 45 per cent, of the
population against the non-
Russian 55 per cent.
“In the later Dumas elected
under Stolypin’s restrictive
franchise, however, the Social
Democrats, Socialist Revolu-
tionaries and other Populist
groups still were represented.
Political parties were numerous
arid could organise their
branches and hold meetings.
There was a wide variety of
political newspapers and period-
icals. Individual issues were
confiscated by the police if they
incited violence or rebellion,
but no attempt was made to
prevent the . expression of
Marxist, Populist or radical
ideas. Book-publication was
still more free ; censorship of
the arts and of literature was no
stricter than in any con-
temporary Western country.
“An independent judiciary
had already been introduced in
the 1860’s but had had to fight
a long struggle against encroach-
ments by the administrative
THE WAY OUT?
Illingworth’ s comment, in London “Daily Mail," on British scientific advance towards “taming the H-bomb.”
authorities. This struggle was
still being fought under Stoly-
pin. But once the immediate
aftermath of the 1905-06
violence was past, it was the
law which gained ground, and
arbitrary powers which
declined.
Literature
“The Russia of Khrushchev
presents a very different picture.
Stolypin’s police tactics have
long since been dwarfed by the
Bolsheviks’ methods of liquidat-
ing opponents. In the Soviet
Union there is no freedom of
association, of political
assembly, of the press or of
book-publication. Nor is the
judiciary independent: both
judges and procurators are
subject to the overriding will of
the party.
“In the field of literature,
the relaxation of regime
controls in recent years can be
seen in better perspective when
contrasted with the situation
under Stolypin. Dudintsev’s
widely discussed novel Not by
Bread Alone, despite its criti-
cism of the Communist ruling
bureaucracy, was published in
the Moscow literary magazine
‘Novy Mir’ in the fall of 1956
and has since been allowed to
appear in book-form, though in
a far smaller edition than was
originally planned or is
customary for the huge Russian
book-trade.
“To be sure, the fact that
such a work could be published
and its author escape anything
worse—at least to date —than
verbal attack by party spokes-
men, represents noteworthy
‘progress’ by comparison with
the period of Stalin's autocracy,
when no such criticisms could
have appeared in print and
anyone who made them orally
would have gone to a labor-
camp or even been shot. But
Western journalists who acclaim
this as ‘liberalisation’ would do
well to bear in mind that even
under Tsar Nicholas 1, and
much more so in the Russia of
1910, fierce public criticism of
bureaucratic mismanagement
and corruption was possible.
Moreover, Khrushchev has
made it plain that no more
writings like Dudintsev’s will
be tolerated.
“The difference between
totalitarianism (which makes
unlimited claims on both the
personal and public life of the
citizen, seeks to atomise society,
and tries to prevent any
individual associations not
Initiated and controlled by its
officials) and mere dictatorship
(which confines its claims to
public life, and merely tells its
subjects what they may not do)
is becoming familiar in the
West. The difference between
Russia’s political condition
under Khrushchev and Stolypin
can be summarised as the
difference between a totali-
tarian system and a semi-Con-
stitutional regime in which
elements of dictatorship still
remained but were steadily
decreasing.
Social Structures
“If we compare the social
structures of Khrushchev’s and
Stolypin’s Russia, the differ-
ences appear striking enough.
But their nature is more com-
plex than a mere first-glance
would suggest.
“The Bolsheviks divided
among the peasants the large
landed estates, which in 1914
occupied about 20 per cent, of
the cultivable land of European
Russia —a considerable portion,
but not, as Western writers so
often loosely assert, ‘most of
the land.’ Within little more
than a decade, however, the
peasants were deprived of these
gains and also of the farms they
had possessed before the Revo-
lution. All they kept were tiny
private plots. Forced into
‘collective farms,’ they were
compelled to divide their time
between their own and the
collective lands. This situation
recalls that which existed under
serfdom before 1861.
“Thus, from the standpoint
of the peasants’ control over
land and crops, the Soviet
Union of 1957, compared to
the Russia of Stolypin, with its


n
■
m:
m x
v
m
wm
* " l : •
»w
Black-and-white snapshots, colour movies
and slides come out best on
Kodak Film
KODACHROME Colour Film
For slides in exciting colour, Koda-
chrome is the world's favourite colour
film! In sizes K 135 and KB2B,
New Kodak Film
VERICHROME PAN
Your favourite film—now better than
ever —for better pictures in any light
and all weather!
Kodak TRI-X Film
The super-speed film that gets those
"difficult" pictures. (Not recommended!
for box-type cameras in bright sunlight.)
Cine-Kodak
KODACHROME Film
Captures "your world" in life-like
full colour movies. Available in 8 mm.
and 16 mm.
3 83 H M A H 3 A 3 SB3IV3Q XV'
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
Kstr
policies for strengthening inde-
pendent peasant farming, repre-
sents, not progress, but a rever-
sion to the dark past.
Industrial Comparisons
“Soviet industrial achieve-
ments are enormous. But here,
too, it is foolish to forget what
already had been accomplished
in the Stolypin era. Production
of coal in southern Russia
more than doubled . between
1900 and 1913 ; so did the pro-
duction of iron ore between
1905 and 1913 5 while pig-iron
output almost doubled during
this same period.
“During the First World War
there were further industrial
gains. Then followed years of
civil war, famine and disper-
sion of the population. When
industrial construction began
again in the late 1920’5, the
foundations were narrower and
less solid than in 1914. Miracles
were performed at fantastic
speed, but also at fantastic
human cost and produc-
ing goods of fantastically
low quality. The first two
Five - Year Plans, moreover,
brought about serious im-
balances and distortions in
economic growth. Soviet
industry has now recovered
from most of these, but one
still wonders whether, if there
had been no civil war, no
forced collectivisation of agri-
culture, and no herding of
hundreds of thousands of
peasant boys into the factories
and construction projects of the
1930'5, the end results might
not have been better.
“Without Lenin’s revolution
of 1917 and Stalin’s of 1929,
there might have been a slower
rate of industrial growth, but
the progress achieved in the end
might well have been just as
great, with the added benefit of
a more balanced and firmer
economic structure.
The Workers
“A comparison of the status
of the working-class in the pre-
revolutionary period and today
is also revealing. In 1906 the
workers obtained the right to
organise labor unions, but not
the right to strike. Under
Khrushchev, too, there is no
right to strike. The labor unions
of the earlier period did not
have much power, it is true,
but neither do their successors
of today, and those of 1906
at least had leaders elected by
the members, whereas the
Soviet union bosses are
appointed by the Communist
party.
“Under Stolypin industrial
workers were growing in
numbers, and the proportion of
skilled to unskilled was increas-
ing fast. Russia was in transi-
tion from the first stage of
industrialisation in which
workers are materially exploited
and socially uprooted—to the
second state —in which their
standard of living improves and
they find a firm, if not yet
adequate, place in a new urban
society. In this respect she was
following in the footsteps of
other industrial countries
Britain, the United States,
Germany. Admittedly she still
had a long way to go, but
already by 1914 the workers
were making their pressure felt.
“During the first year of the
war, the influence of the
workers increased. But defeat,
revolution, civil war and
famine almost destroyed the
class that had existed in 1914.
An industrial working-class had
to be built up again almost
from nothing. The workers of
the First Five-Year Plan were
as much an exploited and up-
rooted proletariat as the
workers of industrial England
at the end of the 18th century,
and certainly they were more
ruthlessly dragooned by their
masters. In the following
decades their level of skill and
education enormously in-
creased, and recently their
living-standards have gone up,
too.
“Today no one would deny
that the Russian working class
is far in advance of that of
Stolypin’s day. But whether it
is in advance of the working-
class that Russia would have
had if, in the past 40 years,


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM 0. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
there had been no civil war, no
Bolshevik dictatorship, no
Stalinist revolution, is another
question. Certainly the Soviet
workers today have no more
political power than their pre-
decessors under Stolypin. But
certainly, too, their pressure for
reform is being felt. Not the
least interesting question for
the Soviet future is how long
can the rulers ignore this
pressure?
The New Upper Class
“The Soviet regime boasts
that it destroyed the power of
the capitalists. But here, too,
reality is more complex than
propaganda. Before 1917
capitalists had very little power
in Russia: for the most part
they were willing to follow the
lead of the bureaucrats who
ruled the country and who
assured them of large profits
and lucrative Government
contracts. There was very little
of what could be called a
bourgeoisie.
“The three main elements
which in the West compose
a bourgeoisie businessmen,
Government servants and the
free professions —lived, on the
whole, apart from each other,
and none of the three had aq
outlook that could reasonably
be termed bourgeois. All three
suffered heavily under Lemn.
But a new phase began with
Stalin’s forced industrialisation
of 1929. Industrial revolutions
create social classes, regardless
of the intentions of the
initiators indeed, regardless
of whether there are conscious
initiators or not. Soviet experi-
ence since 1929 is no exception.
The privileged strata of con-
temporary Soviet society are
the product of this vast process,
constituting what is, in fact,
nothing less than a ‘State
bourgeoisie.’
“Three points, in particular,
should be stressed. The first is
that the higher level of these
strata enjoy material privileges
comparable with any which
existed under Stolypin.
“The second is that, whereas
wealth, social status and
political power were to some
extent separated from each
other in the old Russia, meet-
ing only at the apex of the
pyramid that is, in the
immediate entourage of the
Tsar —in the Soviet Union they
are concentrated largely in the
same hands. True, there are
actual and potential causes of
conflict within the privileged
strata, and there is also a certain
basic incompatibility between
the very existence of these
strata and the Communist
Party. But from the viewpoint
of the Soviet masses, the upper
class is more monolithic and
New York “Herald Tribune v
“GO AHEAD, I CAN. TALK WHILE I WORK."
more formidable than the
bureaucratic-noble ruling class
of Stolypin’s Russia.
“The third point is that the
new upper class has many of
the most distasteful features
which characterised the bour-
geoisie in European countries
during the early stages of
capitalism e.g., moral con-
tempt for those less rich or less
influential than the bourgeois
themselves, aggressive bad taste
in the arts, prudish self-
righteousness and censorious
interference in the private
morals of others, and a general
obsession with materialistic
values in the narrowest and
most sordid sense. Of the great
historic virtues of the bour-
geoisie of Europe, there is little
sign.
“In short, Russia under
Khrushchev, no less than
Russia under Stolypin, has
definite privileged strata with
great power. The most signifi-
cant difference is that the ruling
class of 1957 is more arrogant
and less cultured than that of
1914.
The Revolutionary Myth
“Carried out in the name of
justice and freedom, the
October Revolution appealed to
profound Utopian longings and
mobilised immense resources of
human courage—and of cruelty.
But the reality of 1957 bears
little resemblance to the dreams
of 1917. What, then, has
become of the great revolu-
tionary myth?
“Paradoxically, it is still very
much alive. Soviet Russia is a
totalitarian despotism based on
the exploitation of subject-
classes and subject-nations.
Nevertheless, in many lands
beyond its borders, where men
and women suffer from real or
fancied social or national
oppression, or where they are
motivated by hatred and envy,
the mythical image of the Soviet
Union as the fatherland of the
toilers and patriarch of a happy
family of equal brother nations
continues to exert a strong
attraction and to inspire
idealistic, if deluded, hope.
“There is plenty of class-
oppression left in the world.
Italian and French workers
have bitter grievances, and
they express them by electing
Communists to Parliament and
to leading posts in their labor
unions. Whether the working-
classes of Italy and France are
truly a revolutionary force is
highly doubtful, but at least
they are still drawn by the old
revolutionary slogans, a fact
from which the Soviet leaders
profit. There are other countries
in which the contrasts between
the wealthy few and the masses
of workers, especially agricul-
tural workers, are far more
terrifying. Such are Persia,
Arabia, large parts of South
America, and sections of India.
Here, the class struggle is no
empty slogan.
‘ Nevertheless, it is a deeply
significant fact that recent
instances of workers rising
against oppression occurred in
places where it was claimed that
the working masses were
happily and confidently build-
ing Socialism under the leader-
ship of the Communist Party
—in East Berlin, Pilsen, Poznan
and Budapest. Indeed, the
Hungarian Revolution com-
bined aspects of three separate
stages of the history of the
Russian revolutionary move-
ment. The leading role of the
Hungarian intellectuals and
students recalled events in
Russia in the 1870’s and again
at the turn of the century. The
defection of the Army to the
side of the crowds in the streets
repeated the pattern of the
February Revolution of 1917.
The revolutionary workers’
councils of Budapest were
replicas of the Petersburg
Soviets of 1907 and 1917.
“Nationalism 5 *
“But in 1957 class hatreds
have less explosive potential
than the hatreds of nationalism,
and here the leaders of world
Communism have shown them-
selves able manipulators.
Nationalistic enmities, of
course, have their origins far
back in the past and were aggra-
vated by the admitted mistakes
and crimes of the European
imperial Governments. Today,
however, it is Soviet political
warfare which is most assiduous
and systematic in developing
these hatreds in order to serve
the world power-interests of the
Soviet Union.
“The Soviet leaders naturally


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to "The Bulletin," to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire; £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
London "Daily Express”
THE ULTIMATE SOLUTION?
disclaim that they are them-
selves nationalists or imperi-
alists. From the beginning, the
Bolsheviks rejected nationalism.
They proclaimed themselves
champions of self-determination
for all and contended that all
nati o n a 1 ist discrimination,
indeed all national differences,
would disappear in the Socialist
society. In practice, however,
the Soviet regime developed its
own supra-nationalist form of
imperialism, of which the
Georgians, Uzbeks and other
national and racial minorities
in the U.S.S.R. are the unwill-
ing victims. At the same time,
in many parts of the world
Soviet propaganda has been
increasingly channelled into the
calculated inflammation of
nationalist antagonisms. A
case in point is the Middle East,
where the Communists are find-
ing useful allies in the most
obscurantist and chauvinistic
nationalist movements.
Lenin and Khrushchev
“One wonders what Lenin,
who hated nationalism, would
have thought of all this. But
Lenin’s greatest hatred was
always for liberalism, and in
this respect Khrushchev can
surely claim the master’s
approval for his unremitting
efforts to suppress liberal
freedom through the world-
wide expansion of Communist
power.
“For his own part, Khrush-
chev certainly believes himself
a true disciple of Lenin. He
rose to his present eminence
and power by virtue of his
control of the Communist Party
apparatus, which he has con-
sistently striven to revitalise.
In the last years of Stalin’s life
the party had become merely
one of the several instruments
of power all manipulated by
the omnipotent dictator. Now,
under Khrushchev, it is to be
once more the true centre of
political and social life, the
source of all power. For this
purpose the purity and
supremacy of Communist
ideology must be reasserted, not
only within the Soviet Union
but throughout the world
Communist movement. Khrush-
chev is a machine politician,
but he is also the head of an
oecumenical church.
“Today, 40 years after the
October Revolution, the
idealism and humanitarian
fervor of its authors have
vanished leaving only a dogma
empty of real meaning but still
used as a tool by the most
ruthless totalitarian regime of
our time.”
U.K. Aircraft Industry
British aircraft companies—
faced with declining military
orders as missiles replace
planes, with increasingly keen
overseas competition and with
other economic ills —has been
more-or-less forced into a
series of mergers which, it is
hoped, will result in a greater
concentration of resources “to
deal with the design and
development of modern trans-
port aircraft” (Edinburgh
“Scotsman”).
“The main hope for the
industry,” comments London
“Financial Times,” “unques-
tionably lies in the export field.
“Orders from the British
corporations alone could not
allow even one major group
of companies to produce up to
break - even point. Lord
Douglas of Kirtleside has esti-
mated that world airlines
would require some 6100 air-
craft between 1957 and 1970 in
addition to the ones they
already had on order. This
would represent a total market
of some £5500 million. So far
U.S. companies have been the
main suppliers ; at the end of
1956 the members of
International Air Transport
Association had a-total of 2790
aircraft of which 2441 were
built in the U.S.
“If U.K. companies are to
break into this market, the
most promising line of the
attack is likely to be the U.S.
airlines themselves. This is
true not only on account of
their dominant position in
international air-transport, but
also because other foreign
companies usually tend to
follow their lead.
“It is in this context that Sir
Matthew Slattery’s statement
that he is hopeful of obtaining
a Pan American order for the
Bristol 200 is to be welcomed.
The break-even point in the
manufacture of this aircraft
is probably in the region of
75-100. The B.E.A. order is
likely to be for around 25
aeroplanes, and whether the
contract goes in the end to the
de Haviland consortium or the
Bristol-Hawker combination,
foreign orders will also be
required if money is not to be
lost.
“This is one of the last major
chances that the U.K. aircraft
industry is likely to have of
securing its place in the world
market for civil aircraft. The
faster it can reorganise itself
into economic units, the greater
is likely to be its prospects of
success. It is worth bearing in
mind that the turnover of the
two biggest U.S. companies is
together 70 per cent, larger
than that of the entire U.K.
industry. There may be argu-
ment on how to introduce a
more rationalised structure into
the British aircraft industry,
but on the need for it there
should no longer be any dis-
pute.”
Mr. Dulles: “One of the
hardest things in the world is to
hold together in time of peace
an association of free and
independent nations. It is
difficult enough to do in time
of war ; it is much harder to
do it when the war is of the
so-called cold-war variety.
There is always a tendency to
feel sometimes that specific
objectives are so important that
you can risk unity in order to
achieve limited and what are
really subsidiary objectives.”


OPES
E
oj Every Type
and Size
Famous for many
years as Queensland’s
premier manufacturers
of envelopes we pro-
duce the well known—
“JAXUL” PATENT
CLEAR - FACE WIN-
DOW Envelopes in
sizes 5f ins. x 3| ins.,
6| x 3f and 9 ins. x
4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED En-
velopes in all sizes,
No. 1 to No. 8.
Plain or Printed
COMMERCIAL En-
velopes in all standard
sizes and qualities,
plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application
Jackson &
O’Sullivan rtym
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers <6 Printers
304-5i06 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Inferiority Complex?
If Arthur O’Connor (B.
1/1 / ’5B) can launch an effective
assault on the “Australian
inferiority-complex” he will
have done a great service to his
country. No other feature of
our national personality is more
in need of eradication.
The Australian inferiority-
complex seldom appears when
Australians are with their
countrymen, but it comes to
light quickly enough when they
are overseas. There are three
common manifestations:
First, and most common, are
those who bluster to tell every-
one how much better “we do
it at home.” Australians are
not alone in this. They have
suffered much themselves from
visitors. It is this failing that
has been the downfall of a
certain type of English
migrant.
Second —and most miserable
are those whom the
Americans call the “knockers.”
These people take it on them-
selves to tell the world what
a poor place Australia is ; how
no one works but demands the
highest wages ; that work done
is of the lowest possible
“Serves you right, George—you should look where
you’re going.”
standard; and that the Aus-
tralian-made product cannot
hold its own with the product
of other unspecified countries.
These people are usually “self-
made,” with a measure of Aus-
tralia’s material blessings, and
their trouble is that they resent
the little notice they excite at
home.
Third —and most boorish
and brash —are the down-to-
earth “good honest Aus-
tralians.” There are those
who have conceptualised Aus-
tralianism into the charac-
teristics of the hard-swearing,
hard-drinking, blunt and un-
sophisticated bullocky of our
early literature, and conceive
it their duty to live up to this
imagined reputation. Most of
them cannot show more
acquaintance with the bush
than weekend visits to small
towns within easy range of the
cities.
These three groups aim to
prove their own or Australia’s
superiority, but, by showing a
need to prove anything, they
show their inner sense of in-
feriority. There is no need for
it, and that is the worst part
of it. Australia’s credit over-
seas is quite good. One always
starts off beyond first-base, but
it is terribly easy to turn the
respectful courtesy of friends
to regretful sympathy.
K. L. W. (Malaya).
“Modern” Art
“Ceg’s” views on modern art
(B. 5/2/’5B) will stir a respon-
sive chord in many hearts.
While a lot of us are prepared
to concede that an artist may
see considerably more in his
subject than the layman does,
and that he may have the right
to imbue his work with “some
deep, underlying significance,”
we still expect the painter’s
finished work to have some
resemblance to its original.
More than this, most of us have
the feeling in the back of our
minds that a good picture
should also be beautiful.
Judging from the following
extract, at least one of the
ancients would have agreed
with these sentiments. It’s
taken from De Arte Poetica of
Horace and runs: “If a painter
joined a human head to the
neck of a horse, gave it limbs
chosen at random from other
creatures and stuck feathers of
every imaginable color all over
them ; if he gave it the face
of a beautiful woman and the
ugly black tail of a fish, could
you prevent yourselves from
laughing, my friends?”
Those accustomed to attend-
ing art-shows will have the
uncomfortable feeling that only
a few would laugh at such a
picture today. Commenting on
the passage, Alfred Noyes has
written, “It would be interest-
ing to know what he (Horace)
would say if he could see
solemn men and women at the
art-exhibitions of the world’s
leading capitals gaping at a
hideous something which might
once have been a woman but
now, since art must be no
longer representational, had
been made to resemble a ton of
decomposed suet-pudding.”
Over 40 years ago, a painting
of Sir William Orpen’s was
exhibited at Adelaide’s Art
Gallery. It was called “Sowing
New Seed” and was certainly
crude enough and funny
enough for anybody to laugh
at. But we were afraid to and
kept our countenances grave
because the intelligentsia (with
their superior insight) affected
to discern a beauty and a
significance in it which was
denied to the uninitiated. All
the same, we did have our
laugh later —when the news
broke that Orpen had painted
the thing as a joke to see how
many clever legs he could pull.
—Mauri (N.S.W.).
Regulation Headaches
Victoria’s new Road Traffic
Regulations, which came into
force on January 1, have now
been printed so that he that
runs —or rather drives—may
read, and what a solid mass of
reading they represent! In
“Royal auto,” official magazine
of the R.A.C.V., which has
published the regulations in
full, they occupy no less than
nine double-column pages in
small type; so that a really
thorough knowledge of them
would require many hours of
intensive study.
And, woe betide the man who
know's them not. Whether a
motorist, cyclist, pedestrian, or
any other form of road-user,
henceforth he ventures upon a
Victorian road at his peril. The
regulations cover, with specific
directions, restrictions and
direct prohibitions, every con-
ceivable situation in .which a
motorist, cyclist or pedestrian
might ever find himself, except
that of lying down and going
to sleep upon a roadway, lane
or footpath. That is not pro-
hibited, and it may be some
comfort to the despairing and
bewildered road-user to feel
that there is at least one way
in which he may use the roads
he is paying for without incur-
ring a heavy penalty under the
Road Traffic Regulations.
There are 77 regulations,
many of them split into sub-
regulations and sub-sub-regula-
tions, and practically every one


THIS
DUPLICATOR
1 Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a trac-
tion ot their cost. The
"National'* Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing, Plans,
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold * Co. Ply. Ltd.
< Norman Bros. Ply. Ltd.
. . Vardon Price Ltd.
. Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
Between
Ourselves
1\
<y
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
ends with the word “Penalty,**
followed by “£10,” “£25,”
“£5O” or even “£75.”
Which suggests that the
primary aim of the regulations
is revenue rather than safety.
A policeman would have to
be blind or deaf to walk 100yds.
along a Victorian road with-
out detecting at least one
penalty-worthy breach of the
new rules. The section on
stopping and parking vehicles,
for instance, is so voluminous
and so prohibitive that the timid
motorist might well conclude
his only safety lies in keeping
his vehicle in continuous
motion.
Mistaking a “major traffic-
control item” for a “minor
traffic-control item,” perform-
ing a regulation right-hand turn
at an intersection where the
regulations turn doesn’t apply,
and even a careless, impatient
or involuntary toot of the
horn (or “warning instrument”)
—any of these easily committed
mistakes can cost the unwary
motorist a thumping fine.
The only consolation for the
motorist striving hopefully to
digest and remember what he
ought to do or the many
things which he must not do—
is the statement attributed co
the chairman of the Traffic
Commission, J. T. Thorpe :
“Drive sensibly, and you will
comply with the new traffic-
regulations.”
Driving sensibly is, of course,
the rule for road-safety put
in a nutshell. But if that would
achieve safety on the road,
where is the need for an in-
comprehensible, indigestible
mass of regulations?— Ardoynb
(Vic.).
Australia and' Canada
I largely agree with A. H. R.
Cann’s comparison of relative
living-standards in U.S.A. and
Australia (B. 20/11/”57), and
would like to bring Canada into
the picture I held a
reasonably well-paid job in the
State public service in Tas-
mania before emigration to
Canada, where I have lived in
Vancouver for nearly two
years.
One of the reasons why
living - standards here are
superior is that they are
obtainable before you pay for
them. A good credit-rating is
the passport to easy acquisi-
tion of goods on a scale
unknown at home. Radio-
gram, TV-set and car have
“You dare!”
become an integral part of life,
and it is not uncommon to
see them advertised on the
“nothing-down-pay-later” plan.
Central heating is so taken
for granted and its cost
absorbed in daily household
budgeting that I haven’t yet
worked out why Aussie homes
don’t install oil-burners in a
basement to provide this heat.
The ordinary person spends
most of what he earns, and,
despite the higher wages, any-
one who has lived in Canada
will know that footwear and
suits are generally double the
cost of the equivalent article
in Australia. Haircuts are
almost four times as expensive,
while a basic three-course
restaurant - meal of good
quality is again twice the cost
of its Australian counterpart.
Three aspects of life here
have impressed me con-
siderably :
TV’s hold on a remarkably
large cross-section of the
people is an insidious influence.
It is largely an escapist form of
entertainment, and ratings
show that Western films and
live comedies enjoy a marked
popularity over programmes
designed to educate and
enlighten. Commercialism
inhibits TV from offering any-
thing enduring or worth while.
The so-called juvenile delin-
quent on this continent is a
terrible indictment of the type
of community-structure in
which home and family are
secondary to the pursuit of
dollars, luxury and entertain-
ment. Nothing is more heart-
breaking than the sight of
unloved kids in their teens
tending towards crimes and
ephemeral pleasures because
no one cares enough to help
them.
I’m satisfied that non-com-
pulsory voting does produce a
more intelligent vote, but in
itself this is not a safeguard
either for the preservation of
individual rights, or as a bul-
wark for the maintenance of
democratic practices.—R. H.
(Canada).
Sport
It is hard to know what to
say to people like “Peter
Simple” (B. 5/ 2 / ’5B), who so
often say the right thing for
the wrong reason. He is right
on the ball about current
obsessive interest in sport, but
not so bright when he says that
the metropolitan press is to
blame.
True, we all know how many
acres a week various papers,
particularly the evenings, give
to horsey talk. But, as “P.S.”
notes, the press is strictly
business, out for bigger circu-
lation, so there must be a
demand for all this nag-natter.
Why must he ruin an interest-
ing thesis by grumbling about
the gambling side of sport?
Attack gambling if you must,
but don’t blame it on sport.
If the Australian wants to
gamble, we have often been
told, he will use two beetles
if he can’t find a race-track or
a bookie handy.
“P.S.” should come down to
particulars. I’d very much like
to know what public men now
get away with which would
have “driven them out of
community life” when he was
a youth.
If he must grumble about
sport, let him look to the real
culprit—the schools. It is there
that the overemphasis is laid.
I hope he gets results, how-
ever, and that his agonised
cries reach higher authority so
that I, a regional listener to the
A.R.C., may get a more satis-
fying Saturday-afternoon radio-
diet. — Nedrium (Q.).
Driving-test
There is a lesson for the
motor-transport authorities and
for would-be drivers in the
comment of the 30-year-old
deaf-and-dumb man in Eng-
land who was recently granted
a licence.
The man, William Corry,
deaf and dumb from birth,
passed his driving-test after only
10 hours’ instruction and then
“told” his examiner, with the
aid of a writing-pad, “all you
need for driving is your eyes.”
The examiner said Corry was
a natural driver who was able
to “feel” the revolutions of the
engine to enable him to judge
when to change gears, and
whose lack of hearing, far from
being a handicap, was really
an asset in that his
was not distracted by noises.
Corry kept his whole attention
on the road and so could hardly
ever be guilty of the “inatten-
tion” which causes so many
accidents in Australia.
The British Ministry of
Transport, in granting Corry a
licence, showed an awareness
of the problems of motor-
driving that could be copied
by road-transport authorities in
Australia. I doubt if a deaf-
and - dumb aspirant for a
driving-licence here would even


get a learner’s permit, let alone
a pat on the back for his
courage and initiative.
“Inattentive driving” headed
the list of causes of motor-
accidents in N.S.W- during
1957; and it will almost
certainly continue to do so
unless we can discover some
way of compelling drivers to
concentrate on their task. —
Dix (N S.W.).
N.S.W. Railway-carriages
There’s no reason why
“Y. Mee” (B. 5/2/’5B) shouldn’t
assail the N.S.W. Railways on
the subject of their rolling-
stock provided he is in a
position to make constructive
suggestions.
Ten years ago I got into an
alleged “first” in Queensland,
and its condition was such
that I expressed strong views on
the matter to the only other
occupant of the compartment,
an old bloke who heard me out
in silence and then asked,
“Well, what would you do
about it?” I told him. Pension
that sort of stuff off at 50 or
60 and get some new stock
with a more modern layout,
better seating and so on.
How was I to know that he
had only just retired from a
high post in the department?
For the next 30 miles —a long
time in Queensland —I heard
just how much they had had
on order and for how long,
and how they so often couldn’t
get a reply to a call for tenders.
It certainly opened my eyes.
If “Y. Mee” cares to look
into it I think he'll discover
that modern multiple-unit
electric stock for the Blue
Mountains was ordered in
lune, 1954, and if he can do
anything about expediting
delivery they’ll probably let
him ride free for the
rest of his life. — Transporticus
(Singapore).
‘‘Homosexuality”
In the welter of opinions
expressed by penologists,
parsons, psychiatrists, poli-
ticians, policemen, legal, lay
and learned citizenry, etc., the
average bloke is fogbound as to
the official attitude in the matter
of that unsavory subject,
delicately referred to in refined
parlance as “homosexuality.”
My preference is for the plain,
homely, rugged language of the
N.S.W. Crimes Act, 1900 : “the
abominable crime of buggery.”
We unlettered, simple folk
of earlier generations knew that
the sodomist was unsavory
and anti-social, and treated the
individual as such. In those
days, rightly or otherwise, he
was outside the pale.
But where do we stand
today? Is this behavior to be
regarded still as a crime to be
punished with penal servitude?
Is it a disease amenable to
specialist medical treatment?
Or is it to be regarded as
normal modern, social con-
duct? As far as I am aware no
authoritative pronouncement
has been issued or, I’m afraid,
is contemplated. The old law
still stands.
Right up to World War 11,
buggery was universally
regarded as a crime through-
out Australia. And that’s all
there was to it. The Circular
Quay area from the Obelisk in
Macquarie Place round to the
rear of Goldsbrough’s wool-
stores wa§, in the early days
of the century, the stamping-
ground of devotees, whose
gatherings dispersed silently,
and sometimes noisily, on the
advent of Sergeant Pat Carbery
armed with his short-handled
and effective whip.
At the outbreak of World
War 11, the Army and the Air
Force followed civil law in
regard to the offence, punished
those caught flagrante delicto
and discharged them dis-
honorably. I don’t know
R.A.N. practice, but, no doubt,
it followed R.N. procedure. In
the South-west Pacific, the Aus-
tralian authorities, in conjunc-
tion with the American F. 8.1.,
stamped out the malignancy.
Meanwhile, there were
appointed to the R.A.A.F. a
few young medical men
interested in psychiatry, who,
without any recognised
diplomas, set out to study, inter
alia, the incidence of “homo-
sexuality.” This band of
“specialists” advised higher
command that the perversion
was medical in character and
needed psychiatric treatment
and not punitive measures.
Hence arose an extraordinary
procedure which Army refused
to have anything to do with.
It was decided that those
detected were to be dealt with
in the normal legal manner;
while a man confessing his
“failing” to his unit medical
officer in confidence was
referred to a Service psychi-
atrist. The 100 per cent, upshot
of this interview was a recom-
mendation for the man’s
discharge, and advice to the
individual to seek specialist
treatment privately.
The grotesque results of this
procedure were twofold :
The self-confessed pervert was let
loose on the community.
It wasn’t long before the*
malingerer learned that an easy
avenue to Civvy-street was a visit to
the psychiatrist with a carefully
prepared cock-and-bull story of
perversion.
I’m not qualified to criticise
the wisdom 7 of this procedure,
but the unique practice was not
adopted by Army, and, on it,
some consultants of standing
had definite opinions.
But that doesn’t answer the
question: Are sodomists
criminal or medical problems?
If the latter, then, why not
arsonists and other anti-
socialites?-—Y. Mee (N.S.W.).
Pornography ?
We hear a lot about the
demoralising effect of the
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 474
Across
I—Door1 —Door and window frames wherein Archibald is informed
that it talks like a madman. (11)
6 —Forebear from nothing in the pianissimo soft-drink or
hock explosion. (3)
8 — Epitaph first mentioned by a murderer like Jack. (6)
9 Civic hero keeping too much for this Redskin. (8)
11— Forming couples, father and I use the telephone. (7)
12— Ship which can sail 19-down replaces its final English
article with a Spanish one. (7)
14—The portent, according to the old-
fashioned farmers. (6)
16—Outside of a vegetable snake bin
is damaged. (8)
19 — Coon isn’t involved in a novel
by America’s Winston Churchill.
(8)
20 — Leek-eaters dishonestly run away
with the stakes. (5)
23 —Book at the box-office about to
try to ace a dedicated park. (7)
25—Sweet 12-across’s five is multiplied
by 200. (7)
27 —Pertaining to a mount like Etna
or Vesuvius. (8)
29 Astonished publicity about the
labyrinth. (6)
30 — Drop off no pennies. (3)
31— When a conservative party man
has swallowed a hairdresser show-
ing some tendency to join up. (11)
Down
1— When tissue degenerates a
memorial of victory. (7)
2 R ockhampton is on this
Mediterranean grain. (9)
3 Very cold water turned in
Boadicea’s folk. (5)
4 Clive, he’s hiding in cars, carts,
chariots, rickshaws, etc. (8)
5 Polite way of addressing a man.
(3)
6 Correspondent's afterthought has
a striking success versus a Russian
lake city thereabouts. (5)
7 Plot in advance. (3-4)
10 —For example, 1-1 equals I. (3)
13 —Renovate a namesake of Mo.
West. (5)
15 —This makes one of the Doones
snore badly. (5)
17—Kay Albert is transformed going
to a menagerie town in Michigan.
(9)
18 — A breach of syntax fish, and an
obvious lie about Roman figures.
(8)
19 — Two of 4-down around a single
sample of 4-down. (7)
21 — Ida in the sacrosanct vacation. (7)
22 — Honor successful service at White
City or Kooyong. (3)
24 —Neither liquid nor gaseous like
this hat. (5)
26 —This makes a queer Arts graduate
dance. (5)
28—Curve responsible for the car
smash? (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 473


®y Appointment
to H. M, King
By Appointment
to the late
King George VI
By Appointment
to H. M. King
Gustav VI Adolf
By Appointment
to H. M. the
Oueen ot th#
Netherlands*
Biß'KJ.iFffiibV.’*??
■SrL
juno
wio«ni*^yj.;;tij
Heering
fine* 1(11 Danmark's
liqueur delight
for your after
dinner enjoyment
(jMf*\
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—SWIFT & MOORE PTY. LTD.
“That’s not a food-safe!”
pornographic muck our young
people read, but I wonder
whether the influence of some
current “good” fiction is much
better?
Over the past year or so I’ve
read three or four American
bestsellers, and they have set
me thinking. By different
authors, the books are all
powerful and well-written, and
each has something to say.
They have so many points of
iesemblance that they almost
seem to follow the same broad
pattern. As each purports to
deal realistically with some
aspect of middle- or working-
class life in smallish American
communities, that is under-
standable and supports the
impression of authenticity.
Each author knows his
Freud ; each comes right out
with words we never saw in
print a few years ago, and
which still are not commonly
used in mixed company. There
is the same highlighting of sex
and related matters, and each
book has at least one "or two
passages devoted to rape or
torture or sex-perversion. One
novel seems to go deliberately
outside the plot to drag in
every filthy vice practised in
small towns, from incest to
sodomy.
With all of these books,
much of the detail seems
unnecessary, except for. the pur-
pose of titivating the sex-
impulses of the reader ; some is
not even relevant to the main
theme, and art might have
been better served by omitting
it. Would the books have sold
as well though, without the
trimmings?
If these authors are giving
us a true picture of the
“American way of life,” then
Heaven protect us from further
Americanisation ; but are they
doing that?
The books I have in mind are
good books —I am not disput-
ing that —with more than mere
entertainment value. I enjoyed
reading them. However, they
are being read widely in “good”
Australian homes by the same
sort of youngsters who, a
generation ago, read Jack Lon-
don and Ethel Turner—and
that’s a horse of another color.
Across the room as I write my
own schoolboy son is engrossed
iu one of these American
novels. Just how it strikes him
I shall never know; but I do
know what my own reaction
would have been when I was
young, sex-hungry, and suscept-
ible. —Jas. Macansh (Q.).
Curse the Press
It’s a little tiresome to find
the press being blamed again
for all the ills that society is
revealing (“Peter Simple,” B.
5/2/’5B).
Our present obsession with
sport and sex is not unique in
recorded history. There were
periods in Greek and Roman
history, for example, when
parallels could be drawn. I
don’t like the playing-up of
criminals as though they were
heroes, but it does not seem
terribly wrong to let a bit of
limelight play on some young
fellows in world-class in some
sport or other. It probably
isn’t good for the men con-
cerned, but it does not harm
anyone else.
Sex is a highly interesting
subject, so the psychologists
tell us, from the cradle to the
grave, and the present spot-
light playing on some of its
aspects is merely revulsion
from the prudery that existed
well into my own day. The
newspapers are playing along
with public tastes in these
matters, but at the same time
they are providing, at extra-
ordinarily cheap rates, a great
deal of useful and factual infor-
mation about what is happen-
ing in the world, and some
well - informed commentaries
thereon.
We are not a bad mob in
this country, by and large.
Most of us keep out of the
news and do our day's work
honestly and to the best of
our ability—even the reporters
and sub-editors and the
harassed newspaper-executives
who turn out the daily sheets.
The newspapers are not to
blame for our faults, even if
they sometimes reflect our
shortcomings rather larger
than life-size. Anyway, no one
is compelled to buy a paper or
to advertise in one. If “Peter
Simple” doesn’t like them, he
shouldn’t read them.— Ayjayay
(N.S.W.).
William Macleay
There are a number of
errors in David Macmillan’s
A Squatter Went to Sea
(reviewed B. 29/1/’5B).
The “Wagga Wagga Express”
was established in 1858, not in
1855, its first issue bearing the
date October 30, 1858. William
Macleay financed James Thor-
burn Brown (for reasons too
lengthy to be explained here),
who produced and edited the
paper until he grew tired of it
in a couple of years and sold
it. As far as is known Macleay
played no other part in this
newspaper than that of “capi-
talist.”
William Macleay was elected
to the N. S. Wales Legislative
Assembly as representative of
the Lachlan and Darling
District on April 19, 1856 (not
1855).
William Macleay did not
found the Murrumbidgee Turf
Club in 1852, for the very good
reason that the M.T.C. was not
founded until some eight years
later —on June 5, 1860. As far
as can be ascertained Macleay
was not even present at the
foundation meeting, but as he
was well known in the district
it was decided to ask him to
act as patron, which he did.
No doubt Macleay had acted
before as patron of the various
Wagga Wagga race-meetings,
the first of which was held on
March 17, 1847.
Macleay did not move to
Sydney until his election to the
Assembly, in 1856. Until April,
1856, he was a presiding
magistrate (J.P.) on the Wagga
Bench. — Eric Irvin (N.S.W.).


ROYAL JELLY
Direct from the bees. Fabulously
rich vitalising dietary supplement.
One month’s supply, in capsules,
£5/5/-, or mixed in 6 ounces of
honey, £5. Technical data 2/6*
Free Leaflet.
R. A. PEACOCK
Apiarist, 21 Carbine Street,
KERANG. VICTORIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
DOGGY WOOLS
'"THE woolgrower is often
given to reading signs when
it comes to the progress of his
flocks. The occurrence of
dogginess in his fleeces is one
of the surest signs that things
are going wrong.
This season, the receipt of
clips into classing-stores has
produced the highest incidence
of doggy wools we have seen,
and a quick look at the come-
back sections of the wool-sale
catalogues gives further evi-
dence of the trend.
Doggy wool causes off-colors
in manufactured articles. The
manufacturer also calls it
“slippers,” because the fibres
slip in combing. On the market
it sells at around lOd. to 15d. a
lb. below normal fleece-values,
but it can cost the woolgrower
more than this face-value.
In a recent fleece-competition
judged in conjunction with the
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture, involving groups of
fleeces exhibited by each
grower, three of the first 20
fleeces examined had doggy
patches in them. This is the
Graziers with proper-
ties in areas where
heavy rains have
followed dry condi-
tions are warned
against worm infesta-
tion amongst their
weakened stock. Lack
of moisture in the
ground under dry
conditions reduces
worm population but
this state of affairs is
reversed as soon as
the rains arrive. The
sheep should be
drenched without
delay because weak
sheep have little
resistance to worm
infestation. Lambs
born to weakened
sheep should be
marked and tailed
with Elastrator Rub-
ber Rings because
they are in no condi-
tion to lose blood
which is inevitable
when the knife is
used.
prime problem with the doggy
fleece.
It is bright and starry in
appearance what might be
called a “good looker.” Instead
of being recognised, doggy
fleeces are quite often being
“Do you exist here ?”
handled as top fleeces, and sent
forward in the best clip-lines.
The greater the occurrence of
doggy fleeces in an individual
clip, the more likely it is that
they will go into the main lines.
In these lines they are
sabotaging overall returns.
Doggy fleece is usually recog-
nised as an indication that
sheep are a season or two too
old. The cure under these
circumstances is heavier culling.
B.ut in the past year or so,
equally as many doggy fleeces
have come off younger sheep—
in some cases six-tooths —as
have come off older sheep. In
these cases the problem is more
serious ; it is the result either
of flocks in the wrong environ-
ment, or just plain bad breed-
ing.
Once a grower gets away
from the established breeds, the
tendency is to become lax in
mating, particularly if a flock
is small. There is no quicker
way to produce doggy wool
than to put “ill-bred” rams over
“ill-bred” ewes. It is probably
more important with the small
“mixed” flock to watch breed-
ing than it is with the pure
breeds.
If environment is the cause,
it cannot be emphasised too
freqently that the grower in a
medium-wool district should
not try to grow fine-wool.
Shifting sheep from the plains
to the highlands can also cause
a doggy tendency, and some-
times shifting sheep on and off
pasture - improved properties
can produce the same warning
signals.
When a grower finds doggy
wool in his clip, he should
check very thoroughly as to the
cause. Once he removes this,
the way is open to improve pro-
duction and his returns.
J. N. BRIDGLAND.
Blinded! by Science
“Bolivar”: The farmer nowa-
days runs some risk of being
confused by all he reads about
scientific advances in various
fields of agriculture.
He also runs the risk of
losing sight of the basic truths
of agriculture, which, from
time immemorial, have
remained unchanged.
This is not an attempt to
decry the great value of much
of the work that has been done
by scientists in the interests of
the land and those who live by
it. Only those who can go
back two generations in farm-
ing memory can appreciate the
difference that scientists’ work
has made in the farming
economy of Australia.
But the commercial exploita-
tion of the various discoveries
made by scientists, with asso-
ciated publicity - campaigns,
tends to emphasise cures for
various ills rather than sound
management. In the very un-
likely event of anyone asking
my advice on this subject, I
would suggest that the most
valuable advice on farming was
published in England and Scot-
land about a century ago.
About that time a number of
books came out which gave
most. useful information on
every branch of farming as it
Was then practised.
It would not be easy to get
them in Australia, though the
writer bought some at a clear-
ing sale in an old settled district
of Victoria many years ago,
and benefited greatly from
their study.
It should be possible to
obtain them from some of the
well-known shops in England
which specialise in second-
hand books, and the investment
is recommended.
The reader of these old text-
books will probably be sur-
prised to find that farming has
altered very little, and that some
of what are regarded as the
discoveries *of today were
common practice in the past.
For instance, there are still
many fa/mers here in W.A. who
regard ley-farming as a rather
doubtful innovation, but 100
years ago it was the ordinary
practice in Britain, and, long
before that time, it is on record
that the Romans knew and
appreciated the value of clover
as a soil-improver for following
crops.
It is not more than five years
since subsoiling was tested out
by a few of our farmers, but.
the English farming books of
100 years ago treat various
methods of subsoiling in detail.
Above all, these books deal
mainly with the health and
welfare of animals. They
emphasise frequently the im-
portance of the proper care
and supervision of stock, and
the necessity of providing them
with frequent changes of suit-
able pasture.
Their emphasis was on keep-
ing their stock free from
disease rather than treatment
after disease had been con-
tracted. We can do more now
than they could in curative
methods, but surely they had
a better approach to the
problem?
There was little theory in
those books, everything was
based on proved practice, on
healthy pastures and the use
of the cleansing plough.
They knew and practised the
prevention of disease, because


Best
Mineral
Supplement
V
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat m Tri-Cal-Oa, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
Os
>«*
ft***
liH*****
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR'
♦5% rm<CAICiC PHOSWATI
inj particular} gladly supplied—
Write to DAVIS CELATINE: G.P.O. Box BJBS,
SYDNEY • C.P.O. Box 4098, MELBOURNE •
C.P.O. Box 712 F, ADELAIDE 0 C.P.O. Box 758 K,
BRISBANE 0 Box H. 988, C.P.0., PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
they knew that prevention was
better than cure and much
cheaper.
Contour-banks
“C.A.A.”: Value of contour-
banks, both to prevent waste of
natural water and halt erosion
on farms in dry seasons, was
clearly shown in experiments
at Gladstone, in South Aus-
tralia’s mid-north.
Tests were made on two
similar areas of 100 acres.
Maximum rate of runoff from
the banked area was 800 gals. a
minute, and from the uncon-
toured paddock 6000 gals. a
minute.
Because there is less plant-
growth to protect the soil, con-
servationists are warning that
erosion and water-runoff will
be higher this year in any heavy
autumn and winter rains.
Hence, works such as contour-
banks and furrows are likely
to pay good dividends.
Sown Pastures after
Rain
“J.”: Buffel, green-panic and
lucerne have been the first
pasture species to respond to
drought-breaking rains at the
pasture-research station, Brian
Pastures, near Gayndah (Q.).
Chairman of the Brian
Pastures technical committee,
Dr. W. A. T. Summerville,
Assistant Under Secretary in
the Queensland Agriculture
Department, said these pastures
were making vigorous regrowth
less than a fortnight after good
rains. Before the rains they
had been eaten to the ground,
and the removal of stock was
being considered.
Under these conditions on
the basalt soils of Brian
Pastures, Rhodes-grass has
been slower to recover than
buffel, green-panic or lucerne.
Native pastures, too, appear to
be slower in recovering.
Differences in the rate of
recovery are showing up among
the native species. Forest blue-
grass, for example, is making
a much quicker recovery than
the finer-stemmed Queensland
blue-grass.
Improved-pastures on the
research-station had more than
doubled the carrying-capacity
on country where eight to 10
acres are usually required to
support one beast. Despite the
heavy stocking-rate of one
beast to 2\ acres of improved-
pasture, there were no stock
losses through drought.
Dr. Summerville said that,
although the drought had
reduced the weight-gains from
sown pastures, it had given an
excellent example of their value
and their limitations. It had
demonstrated once more the
great potential value of lucerne
as a pasture component for
much of Queensland. Lucerne
had shown that it has the
ability to survive under heavy
stocking in rotationally-
grazed pastures, and to make
quick regrowth when the rains
come.
“No grazing trial could be
considered complete without
observations during at least one
of these stress periods that are
so characteristic of the Queens-
land climate,” he said. “Brian
Pastures has come through the
drought with valuable informa-
tion on the behavior of sown
pastures under extremely trying
conditions.”
Cull Poultry *
“Big Billy”: Now is the time
to cull laying hens to ensure
that there isn’t any marked
drop in returns from flocks.
Main cause of lowered
returns is the early-moulting
birds. Every cull bird costs
2s. 6d. a month to feed, and
on present egg-prices this takes
all the profit from the good,
steady layer. If a 500-bird flock
has 10 per cent, of culls, this
means a loss of £3 a week.
Another aspect is that many
of the culls are “broodies” and
cause further loss by spoiling
eggs. An egg kept under a
broody hen for a day drops
from first- to second-grade.
This means a loss of Is. 6d.
a dozen in price, bringing it
below cost of production. Best
plan is to market the broody
hen as soon as she is discovered.
A further aspect is the space
needed for growing pullets,
Culling provides more space
without any loss of eggs from
the birds still laying well.
Main points in picking birds
for culling are: market birds
with shrunken, pale combs and
with only about iin. or one
finger-width between the pelvic
bones just by the vent; market
all “broodies” and any birds
looking off-color.
Sheep Problems
“Pat O’Day”: Rain this
month has made a big
difference, of course, but the
average grazier here on the
N.S.W. south-western slopes
has been looking very thought-
fully at his profit-and-Io3S
account lately, and is still look-
ing at it, wondering how he’ll
stand at the end of the year.
Most graziers with properties
of around 2000 acres were, this
year, £l5OO down on their
wool-clip returns. The pro-
tracted drought meant that
surplus sheep such as aged
ewes, last year’s wether-drop of
lambs, and culls that were,
normally, sold as off-shears
after October, as part of routine
management, and to bring in
something to keep the wolf
from the door, had to be
retained ; or in extreme cases,
sold for next to nothing to
speculators. A local man on
a nearby property sold aged
Merino ewes, that would have
been normally worth 255. a
head, for two-bob a head. The
buyer, who had a mountain
lease, put these out-of-condition
ewes in the mountains and soon
sold them at a good profit.
Most grazing lands in the
N.S.W. south-west slopes and
Riverina have been very much
overstocked with sheep, and
those without cattle considered
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(6/2/’58)
The Queensland north coast and Peninsula will
probably get heavy rains and flooding during March, with
moderate to good rain in the north-west and central high-
lands and in southern Queensland, but poor rainfall is
likely in the west and far south-west.
Moderate rain likely on the N.S.W. coast, northern
and central tablelands, and in the central west during March,
with poor rainfall in the balance of the State. Heavy rain
probable on the coast during April, with general rains in
June.
Rainfall probably poor in Victoria during March, with
April a dry month. General rains predicted in May, and
a good year should follow in the southern half of the State.
South Australia may get only poor rainfall during
March, apart from moderate rain in portion of the far north.
Dry conditions will probably continue during April, although
good general rains should commence in May.
Heavy rains are indicated in the West Kimberleys, and
in the Fortescue and west Gascoyne areas during March,
with good rains in the De Grey district and on the central
and south coasts. These rains may be associated with a
“willy-willy” developing off the north-west coast.
LENNOX WALKER.


%
WUNDERLICH SINKS
OMtiltitte ; then all
///j f i I \ \\ \w
Ttie brilliant NEW range of Wunderlich
tiainless Steel Sinks combines every modern
Improvement in sink design. Glistening
trigh-shine finish, inbuilt quick-drainage
klls In bowls and drainers, anti-spill
beading on all sides, and one-piece
practical size round cornered bowls. Avail-
able with timber backing for easy fixing
aver new or old cupboarding or unbacked,
If required. See the NEW Wunderlich Sinks
St your hardware store, Phone MX 2411, or
write to Wunderlich Ltd., Box 474, G.P.0.,
Sydney, for illustrated price list.
m
The
NEW
o
STAINLESS
STEEL
. 4252
SINKS
SEE THEM AT YOUR HARDWARE STORE
themselves lucky. With the
numbers of sheep (including all
surplus sheep that would have
been sold in a good year and
in a moderate market) running
at two to the acre in good and
bad paddocks, it took pretty
good management to keep the
sheep in medium condition,
Water, of course, was one of
the main essentials.
To take a more local example.
A fall of two inches here at
Tumblong in January, followed
up by another 50 points, helped
to keep enough stock-water in
hand. Dams were almost full,
and creeks were running. It’s
noticeable that just about every
paddock around here has a
dam now, and some not in
use, through carelessness, have
been well cleaned out.
On a south-west slopes
property of 1900 acres, where
approximately 3000 Merino
and Corriedale sheep are
running, the owner had worked
out a programme for what he
expected to be a dry year—it
still might be, recent rains not-
withstanding. This is hill
country, with an average annual
rainfall of 25in. He has set
himself a rigorous task, with
no let-up until next December ;
to make matters more difficult,
it is a reversal of his normal
sheep - buying, sheep - selling
policy.
The largest paddock on the
property is 800 acres. It has
a permanent creek. There is a
amount of dry grass, and,
after the recent rain, a green
shoot came up under the protec-
tive cover. There are no cattle
running m the paddock, so
water is plentiful. With 1600 1
dry Merino ewes, all young
ewes they won’t be joined this
year—there will be an increased
wool-clip (64’s to 68-70’s count)
from them, as dry ewes,
If this half-year turns out to
be as dry as predicted by some
forecasters, winter will treat
them kindly, without lambs.
Eight-hundred Merino wethers
have been sent away to the
mountains on agistment, for
three months, and the paddock
they were grazing in has been
“spelled” for an emergency.
This year’s weaners are being
run in two well-watered, smaller
paddocks near the homestead.
The grazier reckons he won’t
be selling surplus sheep until
wool-yalue improves them. The
lambs wether - lambs that
should have been sold off-shears
last October, as stores to
restockers — Will be retained for
shearing in 1958, and the ewe
portion of Merino lambs used
for 1959 joining.
The local grazier, with a
limited area of land left after
making provisions for his
Merinos, now had to consider
what to do about his Corrie-
dales about 500 ewes, still
good for another year’s breed-
ing, wool-count 56’s to 58’s,
with a few comebacks; all
good, sound sheep. If he sold
them (last month) he would, he
estimated, get 30s. a head for
them, at most. If he joined
them, as formerly, they would
be lambing in the dry winter.
What he finally did was put
a percentage of the ewes in one
paddock, and the balance in
another, with some water and
dry-feed in each, and hand-fed
them a little. The 500 ewes will
not be joined until the end of
March this year, to lamb in the
spring, when the season should
improve. The maiden-ewe
portion of Corriedales will be
left as dry sheep this year, and
not joined until next December.
Corriedale ewe-lambs, now
weaners, have been placed on
the property where they have
easy access to water. Where
there is a good dam not
where there are springs, which
might give out.
It was also decided to have
one general shearing, of both
Merino and Corriedales. The
Corriedale sheep classed and
shorn after the main clip, the
Merino wool is baled, but all
the bales sent down as the one
wool-clip.
Loose Bales
“Nellie”: Low-density bales
of meadow-hay, which have
bgen tried recently by some
New Zealand farmers, appear
to have special advantages for
men who are prepared to go to
some trouble to get a good-
quality sample. The cheaper
baler is another attraction.
The chief drawbacks of
having more bales and greater
bulk to handle seem to hit men
who want to sell their hay
rather than use jt on the farm.
A big advantage of the looser
bale is that the contents can
mature evenly without going
musty, even when baled sooner
than the hay which is pressed
normally.
The lighter bales can be
handled with a pitchfork and,
when stooked well, withstand'
wet weather. Bales can be fed-
out without the string being
cut. Although the loose bale
needs only about half the string,
approximately twice as many
of them have to be made to the
ton of hay.
If not stooked well, loose
bales can suffer bad weather-
damage.
Galahs
“Okie”: A world - wide
chemical concern reports that
two kinds of galahs are inter-
fering with an experiment in a
dam which is lined with
plastic to prevent seepage, and
has a float fitted with cetyl-
alcohol containers, to reduce
losses from evaporation. The
experiment is just east of
Ouyen, in North-west Victoria.
Both kinds of galah have two
legs. The feathered variety is
pecking at the cetyl-alcohol
containers. The trousered
species is taking pot-shots at the
containers with rifles.
The birds probably don’t
know any better, but it’s a
shame to see grown men inter-
fering with an experiment
which, if successful, will benefit
farmers in this locality as much
as anyone.
Flour Qualify
“S cie n t i a”: Whilst not
directly concerned with wheat-
production or milling, it did
interest me to read the follow-
ing comment by Dr. J. B. M.
Coppock in a recent English
baking-trade journal. It was
made at a London conference
of the British Chapter of the
American Society of Bakery
Engineers:
The Australian and New Zealand
baker is, therefore, at a disadvantage
when compared with ours and North
America’s in the quality of the flour
that is available to him. As you
have gathered, the protein-content is
often lower and is of variable
character. One of their problems
undoubtedly is to try to improve
the quality of their bread-flours, and
although a few of their mills have
systems of wheat-segregation, this
is not a practice generally followed
by the Australian Wheat Board, and
their F.A.Q. or Fair Average Quality
system, where all wheats are
collected in the same bin, militates
against obtaining the right flours for
the right jobs. Thus, after visiting
both Canada and the United States


Handleduritfieak'
TlLLEY VwwMcl’ion
Easy to use and
simple to operate.
Is draughtproof and
can be used in or out
of doors. Has com*
plete heat control
from silk to serge.
• 4 hours easy'lroning
on only } pint of
kerosene.
• No wires —no flexes
• Take It anywhere I
• Cannot spill I
• 100% British Made
too t
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores throughout Australia,
la ease of difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE!
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria*
of America, the advice that was
given to the Australians, and based
on our own experiments here, which
more closely parallels North
American ideas regarding flour, was
to advise them that with modern
baking trends tailor-made flours in
continuous supply were most essen-
tial and that in the interests of their
own internal economy, quite apart
fiom exporting to us, these were
matters to which they should give
close attention.
This is quite a forthright
statement on a situation which
has been understood for many
years, but there does not seem
to be any enthusiastic move to
bring the Australian system into
line with world practice at
least, there is no move evident
to the ordinary individual who
wants to see progress in bread-
quality. Why is this, I wonder?
Or am I wrong in thinking that
we are still only f.a.q.-
conscious? .
Co-operatives
‘Tramoo”: The huge success
of many State-wide co-opera-
tives in U.S.A. can be under-
stood when —as pointed out by
Meadley and Couzens, of the
Victorian Agricultural Depart-
ment-savings on poultry-feed
bought through farmers’
organisations in the Bendigo
(Vic.) area amount to £l5 a ton
on meatmeai, 355. on bran and
pollard, and 2s. a bushel of
wheat.
Together, these savings are
responsible for the low feed-
costs of 2s. Bd. a lb. in the
Bendigo area. As the difference
of \d. a lb. means a variation
in average feed-costs of between
4d. and 6d. a dozen eggs, the
savings at Bendigo could well
mean the difference between
success and failure.
This also highlights the
possible advantages of greater
use of egg-production as a side-
line on wheatfarms, where the
cost of grain should be lower
than on the market; greenfeed
is possibly easier to produce ;
and additional labor is available
when things are slack in the
wheatgrowing line.
School for Cattlemen
“F.”: North Queensland
cattlemen have been invited to
attend a four-day school on
beef-production, to be held at
Magnetic Island in March.
D. N. Sutherland, Director
of Cattle Husbandry, Queens-
land Department of Agri-
culture and Stock, said the pro-
gramme centres around the
three main factors in beef-
cattle production. These are
the feeds cattle eat, the types
of cattle that are the best
“doers” under northern condi-
tions, and the common diseases
and parasites of beef-cattle.
The speakers, mainly vet-
erinary and agricultural
scientists from the Agriculture
Department, will lead the dis-
cussion on these subjects.
Pasture-workers, for instance,
will speak on the problems of
making greater use of native-
pastures and the merits of sow-
ing improved species.
Veterinary-officers plan to talk
about the cattle-tick and when
and how it can best be con-
trolled. Tuberculosis, pleuro,
tick-fever and plant-poisoning
will also be dealt with. A dis-
cussion on the performance of
crossbred cattle will be included
in the programme.
The school, which is being
organised by the Department
and the United Graziers’
Association, is designed
particularly for property-
owners, owners’ sons,
managers, head - stockmen,
overseers and jackeroos.
Preference will be given to
men aged between 20 and 40
living in the shires of Thurin-
gowa, Hinchinbrook, Dai-
ry mple, Ayr, Wangaratta and
Proserpine. Further informa-
tion is available from the
Divisional Veterinary Officer
in the Agriculture Department
at Townsville.
This is the first school for
beef-cattlemen in the Towns-
ville area. It follows successful
schools held in north-western
Queensland for the staff of
cattle-properties of the Aus-
tralian Estates Company.
Similar schools for wool-
growers have been held in
Queensland sheep districts.
Medic-ley
“Winalta”: The chief differ-
ence between clover-ley and
medic-ley farming seems to be
that while land under sub.-
clover can be ploughed in the
autumn and worked down for
a successful crop, paddocks
under medics must be broken-
up in the winter to be as good
as those under normal fallow.
Although the 1956 rainfall in
the Victorian Mallee was higher
than usual, wheat-plots under
normal fallow at the Agricul-
tural Department’s Walpeup
research-station gave seven
bushels to the acre more than
those on land which had been
worked-up in the autumn. The
difference could be expected to
be greater in a dry year.
Later fallowing has the
advantage* of providing extra
feed and keeping some anti-
erosion cover in the soil over
the summer, but the loss of
more than two bags to the acre
is a high price for the wheat-
grower to pay.
On the other hand, a cover-
crop to protect the soil against
erosion in dry areas can be
expected to reduce yields by
more than a bag to the acre.
Farm Hints
“Polio”: Discoloration of
dam-water by run-off from
gravelly roads or ridges is
distasteful to stock. Alum is a
successful cure, and is harmless
to stock or humans. One lb. of
alum is usually enough to
clarify from 1500 to 3000
gallons. If this leaves the water
slightly acid, add a small
amount of washing-soda ;
to every 1000 gallons is
sufficient.
“Wilco”: Not generally
know that modern insect-
repellents containing dimethyl-
phthalate are not suitable for
use on your hands when fish-
ing. The chemical is a solvent
and will gradually destroy a
nylon-line.'
“W. Court”: Most accidents
with tractors stem from their
drivers making turns at excess
speed or generally rushing
work on sloping, uneven
ground. If a paddock ends on
a drop in the ground, leave a
good wide headland for
turning. At best the return
paid in a few extra stools of
crop, where headlands are cut
to nothing, is cancelled by the
damage to implements when
extra-sharp turns have to be
made.
“Sarina”: Planting creepers
to run along and shade a
veranda is not good policy in
wet districts. The dense leaf-
age will not allow the timber
of the house to dry-out after
rain, and rotting follows.
Also, some creepers accumu-
late much dead stuff —a fire-
risk ; and they are a standing
invitation to snakes.


Women’s Letters
CANBERRA
As the Queen Mother stepped into the
sunlight from the great Qantas aircraft
which brought her from N.Z. to
Canberra at the start of her Australian
tour, there was a momentary hush before
the welcoming crowd returned her cheery
wave in true Australian fashion.
There she was, back at the scene of
pomp and pageantry of nearly 31 years
ago, her radiance a symbol of her
triumphal part in the history of the inter-
vening years.
Slowly she descended, poised and
graceful in sapphire-blue patterned
chiffon. She was greeted by the Governor-
General, Sir William Slim, in Field-
Marshal’s uniform, and by Lady Slim,
who wore a white frock patterned in
navy with a small-brimmed hat swathed
in navy-and-white chiffon ; the Prime
Minister and Dame Pattie Menzies ; and
the Officer Commanding R.A.A.F., Can-
berra, Group-Captain G. H. Steege. Then
followed a general salute by the R.A.A.F.
guard-of-honor which the Queen Mother
took from a dais canopied in red, white
and blue, while in the distance boomed
21 guns of the R.M.C. in Royal salute.
As the R.M.C. band struck-up the tune
‘‘Over the Sea to Skye” the Queen Mother
inspected the guard-of-honor, stopping to
chat with several airmen in the lines.
After the inspection her Majesty returned
to the dais, where Cabinet Ministers,
leaders of Parliament and High Commis-
sioners of Commonwealth countries were
presented with their wives. She then
entered a sleek black Daimler, accom-
panied by her lady-in-waiting, Lady Jean
Rankin, and the Royal Progress began.
A civic reception was held in the open
at Civic Centre where her Majesty was
more informally welcomed. Cheering
thousands brought smiles of delight to
the Royal visitor’s face, and she seemed
quite unperturbed when the throng
pressed close to her car, slowing its
progress. On arrival, she was greeted by
the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Allan
Fairhall, who presented the chairman of
the A.C.T. Advisory Council, Mr. F. D.
Quinane, and Mrs. Quinane, together
with Mrs. M. S. Stevenson and other
council members. Mr. Quinane made a
speech of welcome, and in her reply her
Majesty said how happy she was that her
first speech on Australian soil should be
made in the national capital. A bouquet
was presented to her by little Kay Beau-
champ, who looked dainty in pink nylon.
☆ ☆ ☆
To say “Auf Wiedersehen” to Mrs.
Walther Hess, wife of the German
Ambassador and one of our most charm-
ing and popular diplomatic hostesses, a
luncheon-party was given at the Hotel
Canberra by Mrs. Otto Burchard, wife of
the counsellor of the Embassy. Guests
were received by the hostess, who wore
a frock in charcoal shantung patterned
with pink rosebuds. Dame Pattie Menzies
attended the party, wearing a smart pink
hat with her frock in soft grey silk.
White hats were popular, and many
attractive models were to be seen among
the 40 ladies present. Mrs. Hess (her
elegant ensemble in cream-and-black pin-
spot silk) gave a short talk following
the luncheon. She said that after six
years in Australia she was sad to leave
her many friends but at the same time
was excited by the thought of being in
Lohdon for the birth of her grandchild.
Her daughter’s husband, the Hon.
Christopher Loder, is the son of a former
Governor of N. S. Wales, Lord Wake-
hurst, and Lady Wakehurst.
MELBOURNE
After the Prime Minister (who was
accompanied by Dame Pattie) had opened
the Australian-American Association’s
new clubrooms, U.S. Ambassador W. J.
Sebald read a congratulatory message
from President Eisenhower to Mrs. R. G.
Casey, who is president of the Women’s
Group of the A.-A. Association. She,
with Mrs. E. C. Daum (an American
vice-president), welcomed the official
guests. Also on the official dais were
the Premier and Mrs. Bolte and the Lady
Mayoress. Among the guests were Mrs.
T. Wallace Mitchell' (who was the first
president of the Women’s Group when
the association was in its infancy), Mr.
and Mrs. W. W. Killough, U.S. Air Force
Attache Colonel John Hussey and Mrs.
Hussey, Mr. and Mrs. Mark Clements,
Sir Laurence and Lady Wackett, Dr. and
Mrs. Darrell Drucker, Mrs. A. E.
Shilliday, Mrs. A. Hotchkiss and Mrs.
Frank Watts.
☆ ☆ ☆
When the captain of H.M.A.S. Anzac,
Commander John Philip Stevenson, was
married at Wesley Church, officers of the
R.A.N. formed a guard-of-honor. His
bride was Joanne Duff, only daughter
of Mrs. W. R. Watkins of Melbourne and
New York and the late Mr. John Milton
McDonald. Her frock of white Swiss
organdie was mounted on shell-pink
delustred satin ; a cascade of hand-made
petals trimmed the back panel of the bell-
shaped skirt. Hand-made pink water-
lilies held the short white organdie
veil and she carried a trail of
stephanotis and a white prayer-book. Her
bridesmaid, Margot Seward, wore a full-
skirted frock of hydrangea-blue silk-
taffeta and a flat bow of pink satin, veiled
and trimmed with tiny pink roses. Her
bouquet was of tuberoses and hydrangeas.
The bridegroom, son of Mrs. F. O. B.
Stevenson (who had come from Wah-
roonga, N.S.W., for the wedding) and
the late Admiral J. B. Stevenson,
had Lieut.-Commander Peter Colclough
(R.A.N.V.R.) as best man.
Reception was at No. 9 Darling Street.
Among the guests were Sir John and Lady
Jungwirth, Capt. M. J. Clark and Mrs.
Clark, Lieut-Commander and Mrs. Peter
Cooper, Wing-Commander John Gerber,
Mr. and Mrs. Alec Finlay and sisters Nan
and Pam Dixon
Here lovely Sydney model Judy Barra-
clough wears one of the Anne Collins
hats. A simple pillbox in black velvet,
with lovely white feathers falling softly
from a rose-pink taffeta knot, it was
designed by Svend for Jacques Heim, of
Paris. This is the hat for the important
occasion. Photo by Ray Leighton.
The winter collection of hats from the
Sydney salon of Anne Collins, shown at
the Australia, are smart in design, with
fine fabrics and unusual trimmings. From
two basic styles—the turban-beret and the
cap-beret—have stemmed a variety of
designs. The high, heavy hats of last
winter have been replaced by hats far
more becoming and feminine. Those to
go with the formal suit or for late-after-
noon wear are mostly fashioned of
feathers. In the more luxurious bracket
there are turbans and pillbox-berets of
mink and squirrel, to be worn either with
furs of the same pelt or fur-trimmed
jackets and coats.
The casual hat has a soft flattering line,
is small in shape with a tiny brim, and is
usually of velour, jersey or velvet. The
newest knitted mohair-jersey and the
lovely soft Paisley-silks are ideal for the
draped-turbans. Colors range from flame,
rose, and Goya-pink, through chrome-
yellow to olive- and peacock-greens. The
newest shade is Bronzine, shown in hats
of luxurious velvet and satin. Last year’s
beiges have deepened and brightened, and
with them are teamed copper and bronze.
“Prima Donna” is the name given to an
attractive hat which is a best-seller in
France, England and America. Designed
by Pierre at Lanvin-Castillo, it is made
entirely of ruched spotted-tulle on jersey


and sits on top of the head. “Billet
Doux,” made in aubergine velvet and soft
guinea-fowl feathers, frames the face. A
beautiful draped-toque, in stained-glass-
blue velvet and finished in front with a
matching jewel-clip, richly deserves its
name of “High Society.”
v v v
Lili Berde, wearing a short, graceful,
low-backed chiffon frock, was guest-of-
honor at a cocktail-party given in his St.
Kilda Road home by the Consul for
Greece, Mr. N. D. Coumbos. Lili is one
of the dancing stars in the Tivoli show
“Rhythm Express.” Others at the party
were Greek Vice-Consul Z. A. Economou
and his wife (she wearing a frock and
jacket in rose-and-black shot-taffeta); Mr.
and Mrs. A. Nicolades ; Mr. and Mrs. S.
Kroussos (her choice a black eyelet-silk,
frock, long coat and wide-brimmed white
hat); Mr. and Mrs. G. R. Sheppard
(the latter’s sheath-frock of palest-green
guipure-lace finished with a sash and
bustle-bow in matching satin); Mr. and
Mrs. David Martin, Mrs. E. Hunt, Betty
Stewart and Mike Sullivan.
« # i?
When Judith Louise Tissot, Australian
and Victorian squash champion, and
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Tissot of
Black Rock, was married at St. Mary’s
Church, East St. Kilda, to Edward
Graham Fitzgerald, she wore a classical
gown of white silver-threaded waffle-
pique. A pearl-and-diamente coronet
held her tulle veil, and she carried long-
stemmed white roses. Her cousm Barbara
Bruce and Moira Fitzgerald were brides-
maids. Their short white linen Princess-
frocks were trimmed with chiffon, and
their bouquets of white roses matched
the rose worn in their hair. The ’groom
is the only son of Mrs. Brian Fitzgerald,
of Brighton, and the late Mr. Fitzgerald.
Best man was Colin Crane, and grooms-
man Roby Buzolich. Reception was at
the home of the bride’s parents.
SYDNEY
This has been a week of anticipation
for Sydney, with preparations for the
visit of the Queen Mother going on apace.
It is interesting to note, however, how
calm and measured these preparations
are compared with the way we rushed
hither and yon when the Queen herself
was due to arrive. There is little to note
yet in the way of decorations, though it
was evident at the Symphony Orchestra's
concerto series that the chandelier in the
vestibule was being sparkled-up.
* ☆ *
The Queen Mother is due to arrive at
Mascot on Friday and will be welcomed
by the Premier. The Lord Mayor will
welcome her formally at the Town Hall,
where in the evening the Premier will
give a reception in her honor. Included
in her programme is a review of more
than 125,000 schoolchildren in Centennial
Park, the Cricket Ground and the Show-
ground ; nine children, representing State,
private and denominational schools, have
been selected to be presented to her. Their
names: Julie Calderwood (11) of Liver-
pool Primary School; Valerie McFarlane
(10) of St. Peter and Paul’s School,
Tempe; Philip Grosvenor (11) of Knox
Preparatory; Lorna Smith (16) of
Hornsby Girls’ High ; Nina Harrison (16)
of St. Brigid’s Girls’ School, Marrick-
ville ; Susan Vicars (16) of Presbyterian
Ladies’ College, Pymble ; Russell Millard
(16) of Fort Street Boys’ High ; Brian
Spill an e (15) of Marist Brothers’,
Kogarah : and John Gill (16) of Shore.
Following the same principle of meet-
ing personally Australians other than the
official big-wigs, the Queen Mother when
viewing the Villawood and Dundas Valley
Housing Commission projects will visit
four homes which have been selected
already. They are those of Mr. and Mrs.
A. L. Albert, who have six children
living at home—Mr. Albert is a railway
employee; Mr. and Mrs. Reg Chard,
whose two children are Robert, 10, and
Garry, 2—Mr. Chard is a furnaceman in
an iron foundry ; Mr. and Mrs. Mervyn
Seaman, who have a two-year-old son,
Rodney—Mr. Seaman is a departmental-
manager in a leathergoods warehouse;
and Mr. and Mrs. W. R. Fayle (he is an
electrical contractor), who have two
daughters.
The rehearsal for the review by the
Queen Mother of the Women’s Services
in the Botanic Gardens made it clear that
if the girls are to look fresh and dapper,
greater leniency must be allowed whilst
they are waiting for her Majesty’s arrival.
This review is to be held on Saturday,
which everyone hopes will be fine and
warm, but not if the girls are likely to
faint because too much strain has been
placed on them.
A surf carnival at Manly is an event
which the Queen Mother has particularly
asked to have included in the programme.
Here the women to welcome her will be
Mrs. A. L. Paine, wife of Manly’s Mayor,
and Mrs. Adrian Curlewis, wife of the
president of the Surf Lifesaving Associa-
tiop, Judge Curlewis.
Other functions included in the pro-
gramme of the Queen Mother are a civic
reception in the Town Hall, a luncheon
given by the women’s organisations ; and,
of course, the Garden Party on Tuesday
at Government House which, with a
visit to the University, makes it a very
full programme.
☆ ☆ ☆
Two first-nights of the week included
the Tivoli’s brilliant show, “Pardon My
French,” in which one of the most
intriguing gimmicks was the huge mirror
which reflected the audience and made
the game of picking out who was there
a lively one.
The other first-night was the Empire’s
presentation of Luisillo and his band of
23 Spanish dancers. At the party given
by J. C. Williamson and R. J. Kerridge
for the dancers one could not but be
struck by the good looks of the Spanish
girls, lithe, dark and smiling—all with long
hair. “We Spanish women really prefer
the short, modern hair-styles,” said Maria
Vivo, the only one of the senoritas who
speaks English. “But we must have long
hair for the dances—and besides, the men
prefer it.” At the party about 20 of
Sydney’s Spanish-speaking citizens acted
as interpreters, including Brazilian Consul-
General Carlos Zalapa and Mrs. Zalapa.
☆ £r ☆
Mrs. Frank Small, of Vaucluse, wife
of a well-known Sydney advertising-
executive, sails in the Monterey on
February 19 for the U.S. and Canada.
Something of a family reunion will take
place when Mrs. Small reaches Toronto,
where her son Frank works for an
advertising-agency. There, too, she will
meet up with her daughter Dorothy, a
commercial-artist who left Australia in
1956 for a working-holiday in England
and on the Continent. After a short tour
of the two North American countries
Mrs. Small and Dorothy will return home
in June.
Brilliant violin-virtuoso Ida Haendel,
who is one of the soloists in the present
popular concerto series of the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra at the Town Hall,
will give two recitals, also at the Town
Hall, on Tuesday, February 25, and
Saturday, March 1, at 8.15 p.m. Polish-
born, Miss Haendel (pronounced Hendel)
will play works by Brahms, Bach, Beet-
hoven, Bartok, Sarasate and Kroll.
Another topic of the week was the
American “spaceman,” Donald G. Farrell,
who spent seven days sealed-off from the
world to help scientists find out if a man’s
nerves can stand a rocket-trip to the
moon and back. He could not see out
of the cabin and the only sounds he could
hear were his own voice and soft music
(this would suit a great number of people,
no doubt). It seems odd that he should
have chosen to study English and
accountancy to help him pass the time.
Would they be of any use to him on
the moon? At one stage he was reported
to l|ave developed a craving for peanuts.
Well, it’s all part of that wonderful thing
called science.


and win it,” Smithy bitterly
wrote home. After a series of
reverses, of fruitless pleadings
with big aircraft companies
and wealthy individuals for
capital to finance his flight,
Smithy went to work for the
“Moffett-Starkey Aero Circus,”
which, as the title implies,
meant a fair bit of stunt-flying
for Smithy. This was to stand
him in good stead later.
He got home to Australia in
1921, and was so broke a friend
bought him a £1 share in the
Diggers’ Aviation Company.
This company, flying 504 K
Avro trainers, concentrated on
joy-riding and stunt-work;
Smithy’s American “Aero
Circus” training now came in
very handy. He got £l2 a
week, plus a ten per cent,
bonus on gross takings exceed-
ing a certain figure.
His next venture was to go
as a pilot to Western Aus-
tralian Airways, Australia’s
first airline. It closed down in
1930 after losing its Govern-
ment contracts, leaving Qantas
the oldest operating airline.
W.A.A. had a small staff, which
meant that Smithy did a lot of
flying. On his 26th birthday he
set what was then regarded as
an Australian cross-country
speed-record, flying the 270
miles from Geraldton to Perth
in 2j hours.
During his W.A.A. days
Smithy never lost sight of a
trans-Pacific flight. His hopes
rose when he was teaching a
young (and wealthy) squatter,
Keith Mac Kay, to fly. Mac Kay
was interested in the proposed
flight, told Smithy he’d assist
financially. He wasn’t able to ;
he was killed in a flying crash.
But there was another man, a
colleague of Smithy’s at W.A.A.
since 1921, who became more
than interested in the trans-
pacific plans. This was Keith
V. Anderson, ex-fighter-pilot
in France and an ex-R.F.C.
man.
Smithy left Western Aus-
tralian Airlines in 1924 and
set-up the Gascoyne Transport
Company —with Anderson and
a local man they operated from
Carnarvon a truck-service be-
tween isolated sheep-stations.
Two years later Smithy sold-
out for £2300, at which time
the company had six big trucks
and trailers (all paid for), a
big garage and a mechanical
repair-plant.
In Sydney Smithy and
Anderson opened Interstate
Flying Services, doing charter,
aerial-photography and joy-
riding business. Soon after
they opened they were con-
tacted by one C. T. P. Ulm,
who was later to accompany
Smithy on the pioneer trans-
pacific flight. Now he
suggested to Smithy and
Anderson they should approach
the Federal Government with
the view of getting an Adelaide-
Perth airline instigated. Ulm
said he’d tried before, unsuc-
cessfully ; this time, with
Smithy behind him, he hoped
things would be different . . .
But although Interstate Flying
Services submitted three
tenders they were turned down.
In June, 1927, Smithy and
Ulm broke the round-Australia
flight-record by 13 days ; a feat
which greatly helped to give
publicity to the Pacific project..
And when N.S.W. Premier
Lang voted a substantial sum
towards expenses, Smithy really
felt he was getting somewhere.
On July 14, 1927, Smithy, Ulm
and Anderson left Sydney for
America.
Smithy never looked back.
He and Ulm, plus two Ameri-
cans, made the first crossing
of the Pacific between May
and June of 1928 ; Smithy,
with varying crew-comple-
ments, made the first aerial
circumnavigation of the world
between 1928 and 1930; in
1934 the first flight from Aus-
tralia to the U.S.A.; two
England - to - Australia solo
records, his best time, in the
Percival Gull “Miss Southern
Cross,” seven days 4f hours;
the first crossing of the Tasman
(Richmond to Christchurch) in
1928 in the “Southern Cross”;
and, with P. G. Taylor, a batch
of Australian inter-city records
in 1934.
Then there was the much-
publicised England -to - Aus-
tralia flight of March, 1929 ;
early in the flight the wireless-
aerial carried away, making
radio contact impossible.
Eventually, after being aloft
for 28| hours, Smithy forced-
landed on a mudflat on the
Glenelg River, about 300 miles
from Wyndham. Two of the
rescuers, in a Westland
Widgeon plane, forced-landed
at Wave Hill in South Aus-
tralia and died of thirst.
Smithy’s withdrawal from
the 1934 Melbourne Centenary
Air Race before it began was
regarded by a section of the
public as yellowness ; and some
disliked Smithy’s intended use
of an American plane, a Lock-
heed Affair. The main part
of the public’s complaint was
palpable nonsense, as Smithy
said in a letter to “Smith’s
Weekly” that he chose an
American machine purely be-
cause he thought it would win.
Just before the big race was
due to start his aeroplane
suffered a cracked cowling.
True, it was fixed in time to
enter, but Smithy, ever
cautious, felt physically incap-
able of doing the trip. If
Smithy turned down a chance
like that his reasons must have
been pretty strong.
Smithy founded a new com-
pany which he called Kings-
ford Smith Air Service, which
he sold in 1934 in order to
concentrate on a new venture
—a trans-Tasman service. He
went to England, on what was
to be his last outward trip, to
get financial backing for this
project. In November, 1935,
in London, he struck bad times
—his efforts for backing failed.
Smithy then decided to attempt
a London-Melbourne record in
“Lady Southern Cross.”
Poor, game Smithy! He
didn’t have, at 38, Ellison says,
the same tremendous stamina
as in earlier years. At the time
of flight he hadn’t fully
recovered from a severe chill.
But, notwithstanding, Smithy
and Pethybridge, relief pilot-
engineer, took-off.
Ellison’s account of Smithy’s
end is entirely factual:
The plane failed to reach Singa-
pore on schedule. It did not arrive
next day. Now the attempt on the
record could not succeed. The
plane did not arrive next day or
the day after, or the day after that.
This might be something worse than
a/forced-landing somewhere off the
news tracks. But it was Smithy, the
air master; he was on a skyway he
knew well; his plane had proved
itself on longer, more hazardous
flights; and with him was a worthy
air comrade.
The days overdue grouped into
weeks, The searches continued to
be fruitless. There was a growing
and grim realisation that this might
be tragedy. When the weeks had
become months the supposition was
accepted as fact.
[Flying Matilda is attractively
illustrated with 16 pages of
photographs apart from its
340 pages of letterpress ; there
is a six-page index as well.
Altogether an attractive, read-
able volume for 275. 6d. —a
“must” for everyone interested
in Australian aviation.]
“Definitely an improvement on your last attempt , Thompson.”


in the new novels they behave badly
because they feel helpless—helpless
under the shadow of the bomb? And
when men feel helpless some embrace
materialism ... as the angry young
men in the new novels do. If the “new
men” don’t die with the big bang it’ll
certainly be with a whimper !
Dal Stivens.
Low and Den
Rather more than a year ago (B.
16/l/’57) I made some mildly critical
remarks about David Low’s references
to C. J. Dennis’s “Australaise.” My
point was that Den did not, in fact,
label his verses “The Austra-bloody-
laise,” nor did he use the adjective in
any verse or the chorus; and, more-
over, he did not write “Pull yer bloody
pants on, tie yer bloody boots,” but
“Shift yer carcasses, Move yer
• boots.”
Now, a trifle belatedly, I’ve received
a note on the subject from Dave Low
in London. He says that an Australian
friend sent him as a Christmas-present
a copy of my Dennis biography, The
Making of a Sentimental Bloke, with
“The Bulletin” article tipped-in, and
he suggests that I’ve fallen into error
in my comments upon him.
As to “The Australaise,” Low
doesn't dispute my corrections of his
quotations, but says that he and his
friends always sang the verses with
“bloody” filling-in the blanks. So, of
course, did the Diggers of World War
I. But the fact remains that Den didn’t
use that word in print—he suggested
(maybe with tongue in cheek) that
where a dash replaced a missing word
the adjective “blessed” might be inter-
polated, and that in cases demanding
great emphasis the use of the word
“blooming” was permissible!
Where I did fall into error, it would
seem, was when, in commenting on
the scanty nature of Low’s references
to the writers and artists of his Mel-
bourne period (as given in his
reminiscences published serially in
“The Bulletin”), I asked had he for-
gotten Gariy Roberts and his wife,
“that warm-hearted couple who enter-
tained him and his colleagues at
Sunnyside, Kallista, over a long
period.” I also asked if he had for-
gotten the rich talk of Tom Roberts,
Web Gilbert, John Shirlow and, among
others, Harold Herbert.
Actually, Low went to Melbourne to
live (so he tells me) in 1914, and there-
fore had no part in Roberts’s “Sunny-
side Circle.” He says he never met
Tom Roberts or Web Gilbert and was
only slightly acquainted with John
Shirlow and Harold Herbert. “Garry
Roberts,” it is added, “I thought of as
the friend of Gye and Dennis; I was
his guest at Sunnyside only once.”
My impression that Low used to be
a regular Sunnysider was due, firstly,
to the fact that some members of “the
Circle” often referred to him as one
of their number, and, secondly, to the
fact that Den commemorated him,
along with Hal Gye and Garry Roberts,
in verses which he wrote around
“Ingavar.”
Ingavar was a property near Sunny-
side which Roberts had rented for his
son Frank (the lad who later served
Web Gilbert as the model for the figure
of the Australian Soldier on Mont St.
Quentin, where he died in September
of 1918), and it was so called because
it had formerly belonged to fellows
named Ingles and Avard.
Den produced at least two sets of
merry verses (both little known)
centring upon Ingavar. Here’s a sample
of one of them, featuring Garry
Roberts (the “Lord High Pot” of the
area), Hal Gye and Den himself:—
Loud laughed ye mockinge dead-
wode tree:
Goe search ye neere, and seeke ye
far,
I wot in vaine your quest will bee
For him, ye Potte of Ingavar.
In armoure clad and cap-a-pie
Ye stout Sir Hal rode thro’ ye glen,
And by hys side, wi’ flashing eye,
Rode galantlee ye Lorde of Den . . .
Moreover—and this brings Low into
the local picture—the second set of
rhymes of Ingavar introduces some
very odd birds of the area, among them
the Davlo Owl, the Halgi Tit and the
ruthless Denawk. The “song” opens
thus:—
O, the trees grow straight and the
trees grow tall,
And the trees grow all around ;
And the long limbs sprout the trunks
about
Where the Davlo Owl is found.
And the Davlo bird is most absurd
In the early days of June:
For he sings this song, the whole day
long,
To a strange, fantastic tune:
“O, ink, ink, ink! I sit and think;
I brood on the Wildwood Tree ;
But, near or far, on Ingavar,
No ink, no ink I see.
And late or soon the swift Cartoon
Must soar to the Utmost Star—
O, ink, ink, ink! I swoon! I
sink!
O, inkless Ingavar!”
The rhymes run on through half-a-
dozen other verses, reaching an end on
this high note: —
The Davlo hoots, the Halgi toots,
The Denawk swoops no more ;
Alone to yearn, the Nude Nocturn
Adorns your leafy floor.
But trees, O, trees, what ecstasies
Thrill thro’ you, root and spar,
When the Lord High Pot comes up
to squat
In the glades of Ingavar,
Afar,
Green glades of Ingavar!
Clearly, when Den proclaimed
Roberts’s Ingavar to be the spot “where
the Davlo Owl is found,” he gave the
impression that this distinctive creature
was a regular denizen of the area. That
was slightly misleading. Any list of
the “birds” of both Sunnyside and
Ingavar, it would appear, should record
the Davlo Owl only as what ornitholo-
gists term a “casual.”
Alec Chisholm.
Poets in America
Vermont is poet’s country—hard,
unproductive, beautiful; kinder to its
deer than to its cattle, its creeks
dammed by beaver for the creation of
swamps rather than by man for the
elimination of the wild, its fields dotted
gaily with the red and gold splashes of
the paintbrush flowers that advertise
the sourness of the ground, its settle-
ments full of deserted houses and dead
romances, its frost-tingling Green
Mountains exquisite from midsummer
with the most brilliant autumn colora-
tion in the world, its raw-boned, slow-
spoken population insular and isolate,
abundantly compensating for the
poverty of real existence with a wealth
of metaphysical imaginings, as moun-
tain people do the world over.
This is the country to meet poets,
and this is where I met them, a full-
throated chorus of five, together
with sundry learners, yearners and
afficionados; a combination that seemed
to me to provide the cream of good
company.
I met them on Bread Loaf Mountain,
where is maintained a summer campus
of Middlebury College, an educational
institution with a high reputation in
the field of Modem Languages, situated
in the town of Middlebury, ten or
twelve miles away. Distance is no
trouble in America, where all poor
poets have cars; but few of the two-
hundred writers and budding writers
who attended the annual fortnight’s
conference held for them at Bread Loaf
bothered much to leave the campus
except for brief visits to a swimming-
beach, to church (most of them) and
to the liquor-store for replenishments.
Bread Loaf is the parent of all writers’
conferences, and its temporary popula-
tion managed to create a tensity of
intellectual stimulus which was some-
thing new in my experience.
Poets, of course, were in a minority,
but the five I am thinking of possessed
considerable stature, and not one in
any way resembled the others. They
were John Ciardi, David McCord,
Richard Wilbur, Leonie Adams and


that dignified, lovable and entirely
admirable veteran Robert Frost, said
to share with Ogden Nash the distinc-
tion that he is able to live on poetry
alone.
Ciardi I think of as the poet-
businessman. He was the son of a poor
Italian immigrant; and though his
mother was widowed when he was
young, and his circumstances were not
good, he apparently from the beginning
displayed an intense love both of his
homeland and the country of his
ancestors. He knows Italian literature
as well, probably, as he knows English,
and he holds a professorship in that.
He writes quantities of poetry, all
concerned with his intensely personal
reactions to his world. He is in his
middle-to-lat€ thirties, he has a poet-
wife, in whose praise he writes charm-
ing, erotic, and sometimes tortured,
verses, and he is the father of a young
family to which he is devoted, seeming
to be unconscious of the idolatry that
literary lasses lavish on his tall, solid,
rudely-carved frame, now, unfortu-
nately, running slightly to fat.
His total output of work must be
enormous; for in addition to these
things he is the poetry editor of
“Saturday Review,” in which capacity
he was of more than ordinary interest
to the large group which followed his
conversations and his lectures.
To the work of reading the contribu-
tions addressed to the “Saturday
Review” he devoted two extended after-
noons each week, each time dealing
with, he said, hundreds of manuscripts.
Reading-time averaged something like
fifteen-seconds per submission. He had
been able, he noted, to increase his
capacity about twenty per cent, by the
simple process of having a secretary
open the envelopes, clip the return-
envelope to the back of the submission
and lay the pile ready at his hand.
“It follows that if my eye drops on
a first line which says ‘Life is a fawn
with soft and dewy eyes,’ or ‘Life is a
butchered bull upon the sands’ I’m not
going to read much further,” he said.
“If a poem is good it had better be good
in the first two lines. By this method
I make some mistakes, but not, I
imagine, very many. You can tell,
even with an uneven metre, the exist-
ence of merit.” From a pile of perhaps
800 poems, he said, he took away
fifteen or twenty for rereading at
home.
Richard Wilbur, in many ways,
resembled Hugh McCrae. He was so
handsome it was almost a crime. He
has written: “I think artists do well
not to talk too much about art, their
natural language being that of their
medium.” Yet, in his young thirties,
he is on the English Faculty of
Wesleyan University, in Connecticut.
Though he read his poems to us, and
talked of how he came to make them,
he added little to their clarity. What
could you add, for instance, to this
picture of a gallery?
The good grey guardians of art
Patrol the halls on spongy shoes,
Impartially protective, though
Perhaps suspicious of Toulouse.
Here dozes one against the wall
Disposed upon a funeral chair.
A Degas dancer pirouettes
Upon the parting of his hair.
See how she spins! The grace is there
But strain as well is plain to see.
Degas loved the two together:
Beauty joined to energy.
Edgar Degas purchased once
A fine El Greco, which he kept
Against the wall beside his bed
To hang his pants on while he slept.
“I saw this fellow asleep in the
chair in the gallery and the painting
was right above his head. And I’d
heard of Degas’s ‘EI Greco’ when I
was in Paris,” Wilbur said rather
unnecessarily. Another of his “explana-
tions” went: “I was mowing the lawn
and a rather horrible thing happened
—I cut the leg off a toad.” And he
read: —
A toad the power-mower caught
Chewed and clipped off a leg, with a
hobbling hop has got
To the garden verge and sanctuaried
him
Under the cineraria leaves, in the
shade
Of the ashen, heart-shaped leaves,
in a. dim,
Low, and a final glade.
There were more verses.
Wilbur, as soon as the applause
began, would make an escape from
the lecture-hall by a previously-planned
route, disappearing before anyone
could ask a question or propose a vote
of thanks. It was not shyness: seeing
an empty croquet-lawn, for example,
round which was gathered a crowd of
people likely to ensnare him in a con-
versation, he grabbed a mallet, and in
quick order juggled the balls through
the hoops with a great deal of
dexterity, remaining on view but invul-
nerable. Physically he was a splendid
specimen; the girls adored him, but he
was never waylaid; he chose his own
company.
Leonie Adams teaches poetry at
Columbia University. I personally
found her the most interesting and one
of the most congenial of poets; though
to tell the truth, when she read her
verses, there were many that I did not
understand. I did not care, because
I was lost in beauty—not that she was
beautiful. She was quaint, rather, with
her straight grey hair in a Dutch-boy
bob. Her voice was not beautiful,
either, but it seemed beautiful, and
when she was reading she was trans-
formed. I could listen for hours to
her, saying quietly:—
Oh beech, unbind your yellow leaf,
for deep
The honeyed time lies sleeping, and
lead shade
Seals-up the eyelids of its golden
sleep.
Long are your flutes, chimes, little
bells at rest,
And here is only the cold scream of
the fox,
Only the hunter following on the
hound . . .
Introducing one poem she said, “I
don’t quite know what I mean in this
one. I was in a cabin in the mountains
in a storm, and this frog kept trying
to climb up the window, so that I
could see his belly with the markings
on it from inside the room; and the
poem is just what I felt about it all.”
She has been called the poet of
feminine sensibility. She is the only
one of the group who displayed a keen
interest in Australian poetry, and she
told me how much she would like to
read what our poets here were writing.
She said that she had come across an
occasional poem; but she would need
to read more before she could form
an opinion. I would like her to know
the Australian poets, too, in particular
Rosemary Dobson and Mena
Abdullah, of whom I talked with
her.
David McCord, yet another pro-
fessor, evoked a different mood. His
audiences were always chuckling; he
was a manipulative poet, concerned
with a word or a- thought, at which
he was always pulling and pushing,
twisting and turning to evoke a variety
of pictures, most of them humorous.
He liked the transplantation of the
image:—
The sensitive plant
—May it long enchant—
Was the first to use
A proximity fuse.
The snapdragon’s gun
Is a hair-trigger one.
The black bats fly
In a sonar sky.
A bee to thistle
Is a guided missile
And a squid can get
Where it wants by jet . . .
And I doubt whether I have ever
spent happier evenings than in a web
of rib-tickling reminiscence spun by
him, by Stewart Holbrook, who
deserves a chapter to himself, and Bill
(William Hazlitt) Upson, who since
1924 or thereabouts has been writing
about Alexander Botts, a salesman of
Earthworm Tractors. (Upson, by the
way, used to sell Caterpillars.)
The last of my group is Robert
Frost, who lived a couple of miles
down the road at Ripton, amongst
apple-blossoms and sugar-maples. He
was an old man, so old that when I
heard him first I thought he wandered;


Salome
A TRAGEDY IN ONE ACT BY OSCAR WILDE
Illustrated AUBREY BEARDSLEY
Newly translated by R. A. Walker
At all booksellers - - - 37/3
WILLIAM KEINIMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE ; : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
Paper-backed novels to suit all tastes and pockets
PAN Books
Latest releases include
THE MAN WITH THREE FACES—Hans-Otto Meissner
True story of the war’s most daring master-spy, Victor Sorge
DANGEROUS EXlLE—Vaughan Wilkins
Exciting novel of The French Revolution —Big Film coming soon
ASK TO SEE THESE AND OTHER TITLES AT YOUR BOOKSELLER OR WRITE FOR LISTS TO
William Collins Overseas Ltd., Box 476, G.P.0., Sydney.
TWO MEN / KNEW
By C. E. W. Bean
The story of the founders of the A.1.F., William Bridges and Brudenell White.
“This is a contribution to Australian history ... which Charles Bean is uniquely
qualified to make. There is no one else who has the background of intimate
personal knowledge of Australian World War I military personalities upon
which Dr. Bean can draw so copiously and effortlessly.”— S. M. Herald.
25/- (post 9d.)
Available from all booksellers and . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagli Street, Sydney
yet later I was to find he spoke with a
magnificent finality.
“A good poem begins with observa-
tion, with feeling, and ends with
wisdom,” he said.
“Is it possible,” asked one of those
tiresome notetakers who infest every
appearance of the great, “for a good
poem to begin with wisdom and end
with observation?”
“No,” he said.
“Can an assigned poem on a given
subject be good?” asked someone
more astute.
“No,” said Frost, without having to
think.
“If you were to deliberately write a
poem in praise of God, wouldn’t that
be the same thing as an assigned poem
on a given subject?” came from a
bush-lawyer, and Frost didn’t hesitate.
“Yes,” he said. Then he looked
around his audience, and his white
hair, his apple-cheeked face seemed
almost to glow. “All your poems are
in praise of. God, even when they deny
him.” he said. And that, I felt, was the
moment to leave, so I went out into the
crisp and sparkling Vermont night.
Olaf Ruhen.
Reviewed Briefly
The Gigli Memoirs: Beniamino
Gigli, translated by Darina Silone
(Cassell). “I was born,” says Gigli,
“with a voice and very little else.” His
father was a red-haired cobbler. The
book is all opera, opera, opera, mostly
a record of triumphs, with little of the
singer’s personal life but with interest-
ing comments on other singers, particu-
larly Caruso, for whom Gigli has an
immense admiration: “Everything was
exceptional in him, not only his voice.”
¥ * * 9
The Muses Are Heard: Truman
Capote (Heinemann). The title is from
a toast given by a Soviet official from
the Ministry of Culture when Capote
went to Leningrad with the U.S.
production of “Porgy and Bess” —
“When the cannons are silent the Muses
are heard.” It takes Capote half the
book to get to Leningrad, and when
he gets there he doesn’t say very much,
except about what they had to eat and
drink; but here are some prices from
a State-controlled pawnshop: second-
hand shoes, 50 to 175 dollars a pair,
powder-puff, seven dollars; ivory chess-
set with five pawns missing, 1450
dollars; a pink plaster doll, “cracked
and flaked as though it had been left in
the rain,” 25 dollars.
* * * *
The Poetry of Living Japan: an
anthology edited by Takamichi Nino-
miya and D. J. Enright (Murray). The
editors describe the penetration of
Japan by Western influences as trans-
lations of Gray, Tennyson and Long-
fellow began to circulate. This led
to an era of free-verse, one of the most
notable schools of which, the dada-
anarchist “Red and Black” group, held
that “Poetry is a bomb.” Subsequently
Eliot, Pound, Auden and others were
translated. It is not clear from the
introduction whether free-verse is still
fashionable, but from the translations
it would appear so—with an admixture
of traditional forms. The longer poems
are vague in translations; but, as will
be seen from Fuyuhiko Kitigawa’s
“The Rush Hour,” the short pieces
still get to the point:—
At the wicket
The finger is clipped together with
the ticket.
* * * *
The Paper Dolls: Laura Beheler
(Peter Davies). A delicate study of
adolescence, made with simplicity and
precision. The central character is a
young girl who withdraws to a world
of make-believe as a protection against
the failure of her parents’ marriage. It
is the freshness of her youthful
reactions contrasted with her misty,
view of reality that makes the story
so poignant.
* * • *
To the Four Winds: Clare Sheridan
(Deutsch). The news that Winston
Churchill, Mrs. Sheridan’s cousin, is a
Red Indian is only one of a thousand
surprises in this extraordinarily rich,
amusing and thoughtful auto-
biography: “My grandfather Leonard
[Jerome] and his brother married two
Hall sisters; and because these sisters
had Red Indian blood, may indeed
have been half-castes, the American
family did their best to obliterate every
trace of Hall ancestry. Leonard
Jerome has become famous as the
grandfather of Winston Churchill” . . .
Mrs. Sheridan has known everybody
who is anybody in European art,
politics and society and writes a vivid,
crowded book full of the anecdotes
and pen-pictures which bring history
to life.


1
li
r
m
rm£
mm
WOfilP
POPt/lA#
with all the answers is the primary producer's best friend
Ferguson ahead of all others provides these features: —
Efficiency of Operation.
Power without inbuilt Weight.
Simplicity3f Handling.
Flexibility and Manoeuvrability.
Maximum Economy.
On the farm service second to none.
The most advanced hydraulics yet
introduced
Scientifically designed, quality built
implements.
Lowest initial cost .... highest
resale value.
For full details, a Convincing Demonstration and Prompt Delivery contact your Local
Dealer or write to the Distributors for Queensland ; Northern Rivers, N.S.W.; and
Northern Territory:
BRITISH TRACTOR & IMPLEMENTS PTY. LTD.
■
Sydney Street, New Farm, Brisbane. Phone: LW 1011
