

The Bulletin
Australia Once Made Films —page 32
Wednesday, August 13, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered In Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"You simply add a little magnesium, a pinch of bauxite, then bring to the boil.”


iox 2671, G.P.I
A service for readers. That
obtain volume, let us dud it for
text book, biography, history, etc.
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
WELL-PROVED PENGUINS
From the excitement which the
arrival of The Penguin Book of Aus-
tralian Verse has aroused it is clear
that there is a general belief that
Penguins prove something; and so
undoubtedly they do; but the question
is, what?
They don’t prove that Australian
poetry exists: we know that already;
and, in fact, of the fifty-nine authors in
this book, forty have at one time or
another contributed to “The Bulletin.”
They don’t prove that some Aus-
tralian poetry is of very high quality:
that was done long ago by the con-
sensus of Australian criticism which
established the values of Brennan,
McCrae and Shaw Neilson so that the
editors of the present volume —them-
selves Australian —could pick up their
poems for reprinting overseas.
They don’t prove that it was high
time we had an anthology of this poetiy,
for, of course, we have had anthologies
for years. Angus and Robertson pub-
lish an excellent one—“ Australian
Poetry” —every year; and if you
selected the best poems from “Aus-
tralian Poetry” over the seventeen years
it has been running you could make an
anthology so close to the Penguin book
that you would hardly know the
difference.
But the extraordinary thing is that
“Australian Poetry” sells at the outside
a thousand copies each year; and this
Penguin anthology is expected to sell
10,000 copies in Australia and a
further 30,000 overseas.
That certainly must prove something;
and what it chiefly proves, I think, is
the magnificent achievement of the
Penguin publishing venture.
It is not merely that the Australian
public needs to be told by an overseas
publisher that its poets are worth read-
ing; for an Oxford anthology would
never sell like a Penguin. It is not
merely the comparatively cheap price;
for if “Australian Poetry” were pub-
lished at the price of a Penguin nobody
could imagine that it would sell any-
thing like 10,000 copies.
It is that Penguins have the “name.”
It is a guarantee, formed by careful
and consistent choice of titles over
many years, of a certain level of
quality and, more importantly for
popular sale, a certain level of enter-
tainment. It is not necessarily the
highest quality; for that—the absolute
classic quality, the guarantee of per-
manence as near as men can fix it —
you must go to Everyman’s; but it is
a guarantee of reasonable quality;
something which might be permanent,
which at least reaches a high level in
our generation, and which is almost
certain to be enjoyable.
Those, it seems to me—and not ask-
ing too much more—are the attributes
one should expect in “The Penguin
Book of Australian Verse”; and those
are what you will find.
Of course, since this, like, any other
anthology, is something of a national
occasion—and, since it is to represent
us so widely overseas, more of an occa-
sion than usual—one is tempted to ask
for the perfect selection; and I never
yet saw any anthology which one
couldn’t disagree with: sometimes as a
matter of personal taste, sometimes with
what one hopes is critical judgment.
To consider, then, what seems to me
the defects of this selection, which has
been made by John Thompson,
Kenneth Slessor and R. G. Howarth—
it should obviously have been made
clear, for a start, that this is not
“Australian Poetry” but, essentially,
“Modern Australian Poetry.” There
is no Harpur, no Kendall, no attempt
at a full historical coverage; there are
no balladists. I do not, in the circum-
stances, criticise the omission of these
writers; it is simply that the book has
a misleading title.
Then, accepting that the anthology is
of modern Australian poetry, where
does modernity start? Personally I
would have been well content to begin
it, as these editors have, with Mary Gil-
more and to continue with Brennan
and Hugh McCrae; but if, disregarding
chronology and looking rather at the
style and spirit of the writing, Bayle-
bridge were to be omitted (as he is),
presumably on the grounds that he is
of more historical than immediate
poetic interest, I think I could also have
found it possible to omit Bernard
O’Dowd’s “Australia” sonnet, which
the editors have included.
This brings us to the general question
of omissions, the point at which the
unfortunate anthologist is always most
vulnerable. I am glad to be able to
say that, though O’Dowd is out of
keeping, though some of the others are
ephemeral and some have been given
too much space, I see no particular
reason to complain of any of the inclu-
sions; on the contrary, there is much
to rejoice at. But —the omissions.
Looking back over the issues of
“Australian Poetry” since 1941 I
found, by some fairly rough arithmetic,
ninety-seven names which have not
been included in the Penguin. Obvi-
ously the editors could not have
included another ninety-seven poets in
their book, and many of them —fairly
broad and easy as the standard is here
—would hardly make the grade. But
I note, out of that ninety-seven, taking
them as they come, the following
writers who would have had claims for
inclusion quite as strong as —and some-
times stronger than —some of the
Penguin company: Harold Stewart,
Randolph Stow, Mary Finnin, James
Devaney, Nancy Keesing, lan Healy,
Brian Vrepont, Eve Langley, Eric
Irvin, Val Vallis, “E,” Leonard Mann,
Maurice Biggs, Fumley Maurice.
For my part, I have an unalterable
affection for Eve Langley’s “Native
Bom”; I find Harold Stewart’s Chinese
poems captivating; I regard Biggs and
Irvin very highly among the war-poets;
I think that Vrepont wrote a few really
lovely poems; I am sure that Nancy
Keesing’s pictures of contemporary
Sydney deserved a place; and I really
do not think it is possible to omit
Furnley Maurice’s “Victoria Markets”
from an anthology which is supposed
to be both representative and enjoy-
able. Leon Gellert is another extra-
ordinary omission.
Turning from what has been excluded
to what has been included, once again
it is easy enough to find points of
disagreement.
It may be true, as the editors say,
that Mary Gilmore is more remarkable
as an individual than as a poet, but
she is a pretty remarkable poet, too, at
her best, and the two small poems she
has here (compared with the generous
space allotted to much lesser writers)
seem to me an altogether inadequate
representation. I miss two of my
favorite McCrae poems, “Colombine”
and “I Blow My Pipes.”
Peter Hopegood, with his biography
longer than his poem, is poorly repre-
sented. Something more distinctively
Australian of E. G. Moll’s could have
been chosen. There should have been
extracts from Hart-Smith’s “Columbus”
sequence and from Francis- Webb’s
“Leichhardt” and “Ben Boyd”—I dis-
agree with the editors that extracts
from these poems can’t be printed: they
would give an air of largeness and
space to an anthology—and Webb in
particular has been cut far too short.
I would have liked to have seen
Kenneth Mackenzie’s strangely pro-
phetic “Heat,” one of Ronald
McCuaig’s later poems as well as
“Music in the Air,” some of Rex
Ingamells’s early small Nature-poems
rather than the bits from “The Great
South Land,” John Blight’s “Be-
calmed,” David Campbell’s “Harry
Pearce,” “Ariel” and “Night Sowing,”
Rosemary Dobson’s “Detail From an
Annunciation by Crivelli” and “Child
with a Cockatoo.” It is an explanation
for some —though not all—of these
points of disagreement that the selec-
tion was made, I believe, about four
years ago.
Finally, to end the complaints, R. G.
Howarth’s graceful introduction seems
{Continued on page 58)


L. ;
an
Mr..
t m
ii
*
%i
m.
NEW MORE
ENGINE
for INTERNATIONAL AS-160 series TRUCKS
AUSTRALIAN BLACK DIAMOND ABD-264
TILT-VALVE ENGINE PACKS POWER A-PLENTY!
Here is the new engine that has proved to be the
most powerful, most economical power package
offered in a medium-heavy International Motor
Truck. Maximum brake horsepower of 142 and
maximum torque of 238 Ib.-ft. are developed with
lower fuel consumption but at the same r.p.m. as
older engines.
Many new features make possible this profit-making
performance ! New dual-throat carburettor, new
combustion chamber design and new air cleaner
extract every ounce of power from lower-cost fuel.
New piston and camshaft design eliminates waste-
ful detonation and improves engine performance.
Better valve and water-pump design further
enhances the willing performance of this mighty
"tilt-valve" motor.
If you're looking for dependable power," put the
Australian Black Diamond ABD-264 tilt-valve engine
on your pay-roll. It has the performance which
means a greater profit-earning potential for you !
r=f
it
Mil
2
my
International ASC-160
International AS-160
with fray body
PACKS EVEN GREATER PROFIT-
POTENTIAL INTO THE BIG
INTERNATIONAL AS-160 TRUCKS
SERfES
These International Trucks are ABD-264 powered!
International AS-160 and ASC-160 have reserve load-carry-
ing capacity. These versatile carriers have been on "Trial
by Torture" toughest of all engineering fault-finding
tests and proved the soundest investments in their class.
ABD-264 Specifications in Brief.
Horsepower .... R.A.C. rating 32.6
Max. gross brake 142 @ 3800 r.p.m.
Max. nett brake 118.5 @ 3600 r.p.m.
Torque Max. gross 238 lb.-ft. @ 2200 r.p.m.
Max. nett 216 lb.—ft. @ 1700 r.p.m.
Compression .... 7.0 to 1
Retail Sales Offices in Capital Cities and I.H. Dealers for Sales and Service in all important centres.
INTERNATIONAL H TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
FMT—7B9/36


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 13, 1938
Vol. 79—No. 4096
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
THE SOBER BUDGET
r T'HE eleventh (and last) Budget of
Arthur Fadden was one of the
soberest that he has delivered, and
whatever criticism the Opposition may
have to offer, it will not be able to
accuse the Government of electioneer-
ing finance.
Mr. Menzies is probably lucky that
he is going to the country this year
instead of next, since, in spite of the fall
of export income, there is a good
backstop-year behind, and it has not
been necessary to be as drastic as
might happen in the second of two bad
years.
In the circumstances the Treasurer
would not have been blamed if he had
taken more credit for the concessions
which are granted. He was almost
apologetic, when he might well have
compared the favorable position of
Australia, both in real solvency and
in devices for adjustment of a flagging
economy,, with that of other Dominions.
New Zealand would give its ears
to be in Australia's position, and com-
parison with Canada, with its heavy
deficit-financing to meet the needs of
a serious unemployment, is certainly
not to our disadvantage.
In the light of past criticism of Gov-
ernment budgeting for surpluses, the
novelty of a so-called deficit Budget
(in fact a cash deficit only) scarcely
caused comment in Canberra,
but in view of the use to which sur-
pluses have been put in the past there
may presently be moans of pain
from some of the States which the
Federal Treasury has in the past found
it all too easy to help through its
excess of revenue.
The year ahead will not be an easy
one, but it starts-off in the race against
recession in world prices with a £525-
million overseas reserve and relatively
full employment, plus a satisfactory—
or reasonably satisfactory—inflow of
external capital. Also with an economy
which has been at least modestly oiled
by the freeing of bank-credit previously
set aside deliberately to meet times like
the present.
On the debit side the current term is
one in which for the first time in recent
years revenue will be lower than the
year before, though this is largely due
to the abnormal wool income of
1957-58. Drought meant a smaller
wool-clip even for the year just past;
the wheat-crop was next to nothing;
world prices for wool, meat and dairy-
products and base metals all fell; and
the total value of exports receded £l6O
million, and farm-income by £176
million (30 p.c.) against a background
of rising internal costs.
Yet in the face of these facts total
employment rose, almost keeping pace
with the expanded demand caused by
the influx of new population. Unem-
ployment, though slightly increased, is
negligible by comparison with that of
other countries, especially those
depending for their main sustenance
on primary-production.
Private investment-expenditure in-
creased by 7 per cent. Total wages and
salaries increased substantially, even
though company-income threatens to
show a fall of £lO million or so.
The rate of home-building rose;
development of manufacturing con-
tinues well on the upgrade. And spend-
ing has been maintained on a scale
which shows how little the average tax-
payer is feeling the pinch even in the
face of falling prices and wilting
markets.
T3UYING of motor-cars. TV-sets nnd
household luxuries was quite care-
free. and the lessons of past restrictions
on imports seem to have provided
nobody with a warning, while the future
has obviously no terrors for the addict
to time-payment, and a Labor Opposi-
tion which professes to fear depression
like the plague is apparently prepared
to go the limit in electoral bribery.
During the current year the Govern-
ment intends to keep immigration up
to 115.000. to let imports come in at
their present level for the next four
months, to deal with £363 million of
maturing loans, and to help-out the
States with their £2lO-million works
programme.
Whether it will be able to carry-out
its import aims depends very largely on
the volume of overseas capital which
continues to flow.
It is natural that the Opposition on
the eve of an election which it expects
to be disastrous for many of its mem-
bers, should clutch at the straw of lack
of concessions for purposes of cam-
paigning.
It will doubly swell its chorus of
promises because it knows well in
advance that will almost certainly, not
be called on to carry them out.
Clearly, with falling markets and
extra burdens being daily imposed on
industry through wage-rises, it would
be far from sound to make further tax-
reductions which would have to be
financed by loan-money in some form
or other.
While Treasury-bill finance may add
to banking liquidity, it is a policy that
can be carried to excess very easily.
A fall in overseas reserves is in pros-
pect. which is likely to call for a
tightening-up of banking accommoda-
tion. The best justification for deficit-
financing by short-term borrowing is
that it is likely to have a balancing
effect against this buttoning-up.
COCIAL services are certainly on the
way to becoming an old-man-of-
the-sea which will make the Treasury
creak at the knees in times of stress and
the cost of which already stands in the
way of further tax-concessions.
Mounting at the present rate, partly
through surrenders by Governments to
popular outcry and partly by natural-
increase due to swelling population, it
is on the way to becoming a formidable
barrier to Government generosity to
taxpayers as a whole and something of
a menace to industry.
Social-service payments from the
National Welfare funds are estimated
as likely to increase by £26 million in
a year when there is a promise that the
income-tax collections from individuals
and companies alone may fall by £4O
million against 1957-58 figures.
The total budgeted for from the funds
is £273 million, which is equal to four
times the whole Budget from consoli-
dated revenue before.the war and 21
per cent, of the present proposed total
collections from revenue sources for
1958-59. Pensions and benefits to pen-
sioners will account for about £l5
million of-the increase—partly due to
liberalisation of the means-test by
increasing the property allowance of
pensioners and otherwise. Child-
endowment payments have leapt up-
wards by a solid- £B| million, or 14
per cent.
The Treasurer in his Budget-speech
stressed the need to off-set the effect of
reduced spending by primary-producers
this year by a- “steady rate of expan-
sion which means employment, invest-
ment. production and sales”; that
indicated, in other words, “enlarge-
ment of activity sufficiently widespread
to ensure employment opportunities for
additional labor and absorption of the
increased output of mills and factories.”
He said nothing of the need for a
greater production ingredient of the
working-week. But it would be too
much to expect any Treasurer to face
that issue—and particularly the issue
of the 40-hour week, which may have to
be faced before long —on the eve of an
election.


THE PUB WITH NO BEER


PLAIN ENGLISH
Unify and Global Defence
On the eve of the U.N. Assembly meet-
ing which will deal with the. Middle East
it seems that some realism should be
brought into thinking about the future
shape of the world as a whole.
Communism has the simplest concep-
tion of what will happen. It foresees the
continuing expansion in all directions of
the existing Communist core. This
will first crack and infiltrate and .then
overwhelm, zone by zone, the whole
world in a revolutionary situation, in
which Moscow (and/or Peking, according
to the ambitions of the thinkers) will
exercise the dictatorship of the vanguard
Communist party.
These movements are now at work
through Indo-China, eroding morale in
Burma at high Government levels. India
is being softened-up in adversity by the
application of heat composed of flattery
and purposeful generosity.
So is the Arab wprld, which has been
weakened at the edges by the promotion
of revolution in Egypt, Iraq, Algeria and
elsewhere, by Communists who are work-
ing at the job of incitement and the
breeding of treachery in dark Africa,
and their friends and stooges of the type
of Nasser. Some of the latter are so filled
with conceit that, though they are not
Communists, they believe they can use the
help of Copimunism without having
ultimately to pay any bill for work done.
Already Communism has gone a long
way towards paving the ground for final
success with the help of a silly American
press backed by the sloppy sentimentalism
of U.S. Governments with one eye on the
vote of women’s clubs".
Under the stresses created, more and
more gulfs of Communism are being
found, such as those dug by the defection
of Iraq, the union of Syria and Egypt,
the splitting of the Arab world in
general and the virtual isolation of
Pakistan, Persia and Turkey, which seem
now like the meat in a sandwich —very
tough meat in the case of Turkey, but
still meat.
Meanwhile, the West seems to be
unable to realise a universal concept of
defence; and there is no chance under the
system of nationalism and self-determina-
tion which it espouses that it will ever be
able to create one except on a vague
theoretic basis.
To a monolithic front of Com-
munism in the recent disturbances the
West has presented an American Govern-
ment whose naval command at one stage
was contemptuous in its treatment both
of the British and French forces in the
Mediterranean, even though the three
Governments had purposes in accord.
There was an India within the
Commonwealth running in double-
harness with Moscow, even if leaning
back a little in the breeching, a Canada
running a policy of compromise of -its
own with a note of disapproval of that
of others, a South Africa preoccupied
with its own problems, and the U.K. and
Australia both acting in unity of policy
but at an early stage hampered by the
fact that their Governments were being
opposed by Oppositions almost as bitter
as Moscow'itself.
Then, in Europe, Germany, initially
slighted by Washington, was going its
own way, and de Gaulle was striving for
leadership of the Continent.
Under these conditions the only real
antidote to world Communism has little
or no . hope of functioning effectively.
Against global aggression by a united
centre only the force of global defence on
a completely united policy can achieve
results.
Real global defence under the present
disparate systems of sparring for posi-
tion by Ihreatened nations is impossible.
Arctic Hat-trick
With the passage of the nuclear-powered,
submarine Nautilus under the ice of the
North Pole the U.S. Navy has completed
an Arctic hat-trick. In 1909 Commander
Peary, after several years of trying,
became the first man to reach the North
Pole ; in 1926 Commander Byrd made
the first flight over it, and now Com-
mander W. R. Anderson has successfully
navigated a vessel with a crew of 115
underneath the top of the world. /
This would have seemed unbelievably
.fantastic to Peary ; not so impossible to
Byrd, as it was round about the time
of his Polar flight that Australian Hubert
Wilkins began talking of a submarine
trip to the Pole. Wilkins actually
attempted the feat in 1931, in an earlier
Nautilus, but found it' beyond the
capabilities of the submarine of that
period. His dream had to wait till the
nuclear age for fulfilment.
The Nautilus apparently went north
from Pearl Harbor on July 22, through
Behring Straits into the Arctic Sea,
dived under the ice somewhere north of
Alaska and emerged between Greenland
and Spitzbergen on August 5,
The report speaks of her having
travelled 1830 miles under ice in 96 hours.
The mileage figure seems to include a
modicum of explorer’s licence; it is
unlikely that a continuous body of ice
of such dimensions would be encoun-
tered, especially in the northern summer.
Probably the figure represents the distance
travelled in the Arctic Sea submerged—
some of it under pack-ice, some under
ice-islands and some under patches of
open sea.
Commander Anderson told reporters
that he passed under the Pole at a depth
of 400 ft. At that depth, apart from the
normal hazards of being 400 ft. below
the surface —which the Nautilus doesn’t
seem to regard’as a hazard at all —the
chief risk would -not come from ice
hanging down, but from unexpected
mountains sticking-up. The general
thickness of Arctic ice is thought to be
only about 15ft., with occasional under-
bergs down to 80ft.
To most people, apart from the naviga-
tional difficulties -involved, the most
surprising point about the trip will prob-
ably be that the temperature inside the
submarine was 72 degrees throughout
the voyage. Sydney’s maximum tem-
perature during the four days the
Nautilus was under the ice was 68 degrees.
Nautilus had previously penetrated
high into northern latitudes, and it was
being predicted only last week that
another nuclear-powered sub., the Skate,
and the diesel-engined Halfbeak were
about to attempt an under-Pole voyage
from the Atlantic side. So it seems very
much as if U.S. submarines intend to
make the Polar route their regular lane-
way between the Atlantic and Pacific.
Learning by Quotas
Melbourne University Council, whose
members lack (and never have had,
unfortunately) any real sense of public
relations, last week announced quotas for
students in five faculties: commerce,
engineering, agricultural science, dental
science and economics, as well as limita-
tions for enrolments in 13 subjects, or
groups of subjects. There will be no
limit in science, but some restriction in
the key subject of chemistry.
The announcement came as a bomb-
shell. There had been a vague public
awareness that accommodation at the
University, particularly for some facul-
ties, was tight, but this had become
known generally in any wide sense only
in the news of the Government’s decision
to build Monash University ; the accom-
modation situation at Melbourne Uni-
versity was mentioned as one of the
reasons for the new building.
Next year 10,000 students will be
‘enrolled at the University, 1000 more
than this year. The increase was plainly
forseeable, and the University had, in
fact, rented two rooms above a grocer’s
shop in Carlton (and is now seeking
similar additional accommodation), but
no word of this was given to the public,
though it would have prepared parents,
pupils and employers for the present
unpleasant surprise.
The worst-used faculty is agricultural
science, in which the quota for next year
has been fixed at 70. There are cur-
rently 77 first-year students in agricul-
tural science, so it is the only faculty
to have a quota fixed below the present
enrolment. There are 1330 agricultural
scientists in Australia, and the demand
for their services is increasing constantly
as farmers become convinced of the
practical advantages of research dis-
coveries.
Unless alternatives are adopted, includ-
ing the proposal to use accpmmodation
at senior technical schools for first- or
second-year students, it is not intended
that all students qualified for university
courses will be accommodated until
1963, a position which authorities do
not accept with the phlegm of the
.University Council.
Work will not begin on the nine-story
North Building until the middle of next
year; it is at present on the drawing-
board only, and will not be completed
for occupation until 1960. Next to it will


be a second North Building, four stories
high. A University Council seized with
the urgency of the situation might have
considered building the smaller structure
and providing some accommodation while
the second was-building.
The nine-story building will house
education, psychology, social studies,
geography, sections of commerce and
some amenities; the smaller block will
contain first-year laboratories in chemis-
try, physics and biology. The council
also plans a building on the present
hockey-ground to house pharmacology,
pathology, bacteriology, physiology, bio-
chemistry and associated medical
faculties at an unspecified date, possibly,
however, after the next quotas have been
imposed.
Recovery in Queensland
[From Brisbane]
In addition to reflecting the strength and
progress of Queensland’s primary indus-
tries, this year’s Brisbane Royal Show,
which began on August 7, is highlighting
the State’s powers of recuperation a few
months after the breaking of one *of its
worst droughts.
A recovery in farming districts and
in most of the pastoral areas was fol-
lowed by a spectacular surge of entries
for the Show. Nine of the Show divisions
attracted record support, with numbers
well up on last year’s competition in all
other sections.
Summer grain-crops, which were almost
given-up as lost, made a striking come-
back, with yields little less than normal,
thanks to the late widespread rains
coupled with delayed onset of winter
frosts. Meanwhile the improved condi-
tions and good planting rains have led
to the sowing of record areas to winter
cereals, with prospects of bumper harvests'
later in the year.
The Show’s stock sections have reached
top levels both in the extent of support
and in quality. This was evidenced in
the stud beef-cattle section, which pro-
vided the Show’s main attraction. A
record entry of nearly 600 head of cattle
from the foremost studs of N.S.W. and
Queensland was matched by the best
overall standard yet attained by the
popular breeds.
Improved breed-standards are particu-
larly important to this country at a time
when Australia has just had to ban all
imports of stud sheep and cattle to pre-
vent the entry of possible carriers of
blue-tongue disease of sheep.
The Australian Poll Hereford Society’s
president (J. A. Hanson, of The Braes,
Macarthur, Vic.) said in Brisbane that
he couldn’t remember a time when Aus-
tralia had a better ldt of prospective
sires.
It may be years before the need for
replenishment stock is felt. But by that
time our stock-breeders, aided by science,
may have succeeded in evolving types of
cattle more suitable to Australian condi-
tions, making us less dependent upon
importations. ' •
Costly Accidents
Some remarkable facts were established
by a board of inquiry, set-up by the
Victorian Government, to investigate
accidents in industry. The board, which
comprised the Government statist and
representatives of the Health and Labor
Departments, made a most conscientious
job of it, and came up with, among
others, these revelations:
An average of about 6500 workers were
absent each working-day in Victoria ;
industrial accidents cost up to £SO million
a year, about live times the premiums
paid for workers’ compensation; at least
75 per cent, of these claims could have
been prevented; and about a million-and-
half man-days a year are lost. .
The board has recommended to State
Cabinet the establishment- of an Indus-
trial Safety'Bureau to stimulate voluntary
efforts in industrial accident-prevention ;
and the board’s figures are so impressive,
and so far beyond what was expected,
that Victorian employers have agreed
readily to serve on the bureau, although
they don’t want a great industrial-safety
department, with the example of Can-
berra’s empire-building before them in
the departmental estimates of the Budget.
The board recommended the establish-
ment of the bureau to disseminate infor-
mation about accident-prevention, pro-
mote the formation of safety-committees
in particular industries, advise on the
arrangement of safety-programmes, re-
view new processes, arrange training of
safety-officers, promote conferences be-
tween employers, unions, insurance-
officers and professionals and promote
the adoption of improved methods.
The members particularly want a
waterfront committee, since there is in
the stevedoring industry one accident a
year for every two men employed, and
closer legislation in controlling the build-
ing industry, especially scaffolding ; spec-
tacular tragedies in the building-industries
were a significant factor, no doubt, in
the Government’s decision to appoint the
board.
The board has also reported in favor
of a new basis of assessment of premiums
under the Workers’ Compensation Act to
remove employers’ objections to employ-
ing older persons, and the adoption of
a rebate system (apparently as in motor-
car insurance) where employers have a
favorable ratio between premiums and
claims, on the presumption that this
would induce employers to reduce risks.
Innocence of Hammarskjold
After back-and-forth discussion, every
move in the Security Council vetoed by
the Russians and Khrushchev changing
his mind every time he changed his shirt
(or oftener), the Middle East problem
has reached the Assembly, and for the
first time has had the naive simplicities
of Mr. Hammarskjold applied to its
solution.
In the limelight of that curious
assembly, peppered with the delegates of
nations whose Governments have gained
power by the shedding of blood and kept
it by threatening to shed more blood,
Mr. H. has the appearance of Little Red
Riding Hood offering a meat-ball to the
Emmaville black panther.
He is convinced that all he needs is a
pledge from the various Arab peoples
not to interfere in each other’s affairs —
presumably he thinks the Egyptians are
Arabs. He wants U.N. economic a’id to
the Arab countries —into which economic
aid in the shape of oil royalties, subsi-
dies, loans, defence subventions and
whatnot have already been poured with
no other effect than that they have con-
vinced the world that most Arabs hate
Westerners; that they are ready to
murder in the most horrible circum-
stances the faithful friends and allies of
the West.
Mr. Hammarskjold says simply that
“the United Nations” —a phrase which
seems to have come to translate itself into
Swedish as “Hammarskjold”—“feels the
need to foster economic co-operation
between Arab States and specifically
co-operation between oil-producing and
oil-transiting States” and in joint use of
water resources.
He is so confident he believes that
“if the U.N. could achieve such a pro-
gramme it could hope to deal with such
other serious problems as the fate of
900,000 refugees from Palestine.”
The infantilism of these suggestions
goes a long way to explain the failures
of U.N.
Mr. Casey’s plan, produced in a con-
cise and sober statement to Parliament,
is more realistic provided enough
great Powers are prepared to pht teeth
into it. He plumps for a U.N. commis-
sion to investigate acts and threats of
interference and subversion in the Middle
East, with the backing of an effective
U.N. police-force to control threatened
borders. This, in his view, should be
parallel to the creation of an inter-
national organisation to help Middle
East countries to develop their resources.
Neither policy is, of course, capable of
fulfilment; but the Hammarskjold plan
is flimsy and Utopian and has none of
the elements of practicality.
Mr. Casey’s plan, on the other hand,
frankly envisages representation of U.N.
by the Powers involved in the Middle
East aiming to “put an effective stop....
to pressures against the independence and
independent policies of small States,”
through a show of united strength.
It would be an optimist who could
see all the great Powers getting together
to make it work in the light of the atti-
tudes of Moscow and Peking, or Nasser
and his fellow-imperialists knuckling-
down meekly if they did.
But discussion of the Casey plan would
demonstrate who is anxious for peace in
the Middle past and who is not. And it
has as a basis the recognition that the
M.E. situation is “an exercise in imperial-
ism with Nasser as the instigator,” which
is the point from which all schemes of
remedy must start, f


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
\TS7qnder what is the ulcer-rating
for producers of newsreels? A
current newsreel eulogises the blessings
brought by oil-companies to Iraq. A
happy King Feisal dedicates new build-
ing-projects. The camera moves on to
Baghdad as the sonorous voice of the
commentator announces that each day
the people are finding new pleasures and
relaxations. —“W.M.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“1.P.C.”: The students were awaiting
some timeworn professor to appear and
lecture; instead, an attractive young
lady, her gown floating behind, swept
into the lecture-theatre. Expectantly, the
students put aside their notebooks. They
were not disappointed. She began by
quoting all the adverse statements of
critics against a novelist, obviously her
favorite. “Now,” she observed, “that I
have laid my flanks bare, we can get on
with the discussion.” Pandemonium!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Airs-crew”: Minlaton (S.A.) people
have subscribed to a memorial to house
the Bristol monoplane of their own
Captain Harry Butler. This aircraft,
capable of climbing to 15,000 ft., and
with a speed of 130 m.p.h., was used by
Butler in 1919-20 while pioneering air-
mail lines. It was found at Guildford,
near Perth, given to Minlaton by Captain
H. L. Miller, and restored. The memorial
is to be opened in October.
♦I 4 *t*
“Kate”: A pleasant-faced schoolboy
about 14 was flat-out for his train when
the ticket-collector asked to see his ticket.
He didn't slacken his speed, but called
over his shoulder, in the friendliest of
tones, “I’ll show you twice tomorrow.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Doric”: TV seems to have an over-
fondness for Westerns ; one night there
was a cowboy picture on every channel
at the same time. The TV-boys have
like enough borrowed a hint from
Sir Robert Walpole, who “always talked
bawdy at dinner so that everyone could
join in the conversation/’
•5 *J>
“Justin Thyme”: What’s become of
the meerschaum pipe? George Lambert’s
sketch of Chris Brennan (B. 16/7/*5B)
depicts Brennan’s favorite pipe, but it
doesn’t seem so big as the one 1 recollect
when, as an undergrad., I was invited by
Chris into his room on a wintry night.
“That perfume Was just like the ads. said.”
His meerschaum took minutes to fill and
hours to empty. At the present cost of
tobacco only a rich man could afford
such a pipe. But what a pride the old-
time smokers took in the gradual color-
ing and polishing of a meerschaum!
Then, just as perfection had about been
attained, one had the bad luck to drop
the pipe and could only gaze sadly at
the remnants, and reach for the un-
breakable briar.
+♦♦ ♦++ ♦+♦
“Milko”: Two New Australian families
are saving hard to build houses. One
has removed the globe from the fridge
to save power, reasoning that the light
from the kitchen ceiling is enough. The
otlier family banks half its weekly wages,
eats normally for the first four days and
lives on bread alone for the next three.
+++
“Croid”: Debt-collecting has con-
vinced me that what really gets a
creditor’s back up is dunning' letters un-
answered. If you’re in a spot of bother
plead illness or bad luck (even if not
true) and you will probably get a hear-
ing, but just to ignore requests for pay-
ment really gets 'em mad—and it’s sur-
prising what a lot of bad payers adopt
this practice when a fourpenny stamp
is a small price to pay for a bit of
appeasement.
❖ ❖
TVTy 41-year-old daughter came back
from her first visit to the baths:
“There’s a girl at school better’n I Isa
Konrads; she can even go down the
deep end!” —“W.J.S.”
HABEAS CORPUS
“Two Sydney City Council aldermen said
the Police Department would not agree to
install traffic-lights at an intersection unless
several people had been killed there.”
In the good old days in England
They buried a man who died
By his own hand at the four crossroads
With a stake in his inside.
Signposts are superseded,
So are the good old days,
But the good old customs linger
In more symbolic ways.
So, at an intersection
After a life is lost,
We symbolise with traffic-lights
The suicide who crossed . 1
The law insists no longer
On burial on the spot;
He’s allowed to have a funeral
And a proper graveyard-plot.
But weve got to have a body
Before the lights are placed,
For we’ve got to do things legal
And be certain there’s no waste.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


Tailing two 17-year-old
** youths on charges of
stealing with violence, a
special magistrate in Perth
(W.A.) said sternly: “This
sort of offence may be
popular in the eastern
States, but we won’t tolerate
it here.” The lads, it was
alleged, had gone to the
west with criminal records
acquired in the east. If
Section 92 protects inter-
state egg - running, what
right has W.A. to deny
entry to eastern-State
yeggs?—“Doynest.”
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Sackfair”: Whatever its
failings my daily could
never be accused of being
hidebound over spelling. If
“Irak” is in the news today,
“Iraq” will be topdog to-
morrow. One night the rag
was even more impartial:
Iraq figured prominently on
the map, but all the doings
described were taking place
in Irak. That slogan of
old-time typesetters should
be modernised to “Mind
your ks and qs.”
*l* <♦ ♦>
“R.R.D.”: The exhibi-
tion of Welsh crafts in
Sydney recalled my"* last
visit to the Principality.
Back from Singapore, we
rented a farmhouse called
Cae Canol (Middle Field) at Pen-
rhyndeudraeth, Merioneth, in the
grounds of Clough Williams-Ellis’s
baroque village, Port Meirion.
Colorful characters abounded, not
least the dwellers in the castle-yard,
on which our back-door opened. Dai-
the-Farm and his vivacious wife were
bilingually delightful, but his milking
methods would not have found favor
with W. G. Whittlestone. When he and
Sylvia went to visit their friends and
came back late, one might hear the milk-
ing-machine going at any hour up to
midnight. In winter Dai would walk
round in a guards-officer’s discarded
greatcoat, complete with crimson-silk
lining. Two intellectuals lived in the
converted pigsty (it made a “bijou
residence”); Bertrand Russell took a
house about a mile away. And on the
back-road from Merioneth to Brecon,
South Wales, while eating ambrosial cold
ham in a Radnorshire wayside-inn in the
midst of nowhere, we came across a
Sydneysider and his wife making a tour
of Wales.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Bicky”: As 1 fronted the barrowman
for a pound of choice Jonathans the
strains of “Skaters’ Waltz” were wafted
mysteriously from a radio somewhere
beneath the barrow. The music no doubt
had a soothing effect and made customers
linger and contemplate the variety of
fruits on display, but the real reason for
“Wot say we share a cab , lav?”
the radio was Wednesday race-day —
the fruit-vendor is one of the big betting
men in this part of town.
* * ❖
“Warick”: At the teenagers’ party:
“What do you think of Joyce’s new boy-
friend?” “Well, I wouldn’t say he’s not
all there, but there’s just that sense of
incompleteness.”
❖ *i* <*
“Sixtoes”: Apollo Belvedere in a
powder-room at Las Vegas (B. 16/7/’5B),
brings to mind a pleasantry of the early
days of the other war. In one of the
bathrooms at the Rouen Military Hos-
pital was a wall-mirror covering what
should have been the upper reaches of
a silk- and garter-clad pair of limbs that
were up to “La Vie Parisienne” standard.
The peeping-tom in this case was re-
warded by the plain whitewash and the
royal motto, “Honi Soit Qui Mai Y
Pense.’’ The artist was the creator of
Old Bill —Bruce Bairnsfather.
<g« *
“Bo” : Following faithfully the
Marxist-Leninist theory that Jack is not
only as good as his master but a damn’
sight better, Mao Tse-tung has ordained
that all top Chow military brass will do
spells of the most menial of camp-duties,
including the picking-up of cigarette-
butts and washing the cookhouse-floor.
But if Marshal Sing Bing-sing makes a
botch of scouring-out the stew-dixies, if
General Taik Too-long does inordi-
nately prolong the job of spearing the
bumpers on the parade-ground with his
ceremonial-sword, or if Chief-of-Staff
Sum Por-kow fails to dig the pit deep
enough when he’s been told-off to
sanitary-fatigue, will a one-stripe artist
be given the job of roaring ’em up?
And if they give him a bit of back-chat,
will he be within his rights in parading
’em to the orderly-room for a spell ill
the boob? And will the said lance-jack,
after the generals have washed the bab’s
dungarees and themselves and shoved
their epaulettes back, be given half-a-
day’s start on the narked generals after
being allowed to draw from the q.m. a
new pair of running-shoes?
❖ ❖ *t*
H. A. Lindsay: Have never been able
to make-out why Frank Dalby Davison’s
Man-shy became The Red Heifer in the
U.S., or why several of Arthur Upfield's
mystery yarns with Australian outback
settings received similar treatment.
I’ve just learned the reason. Norman
Tindale and I have written another book
like our The First Walkabout, this time
about the coming of the Maori people
to New Zealand. It is due for simul-
taneous publication in America, Britain,
Australia and New Zealand. Now we
have a note about inquiries to make sure
that our title “has not been ruled out
by pre-emption in the U.S.A.” In


America, it seems, some smart people
went through the classics for striking
quotations of up to four or five words,
and through dictionaries to find com-
binations of words which would also
make good titles. Any not already
taken had a formal precis of a plot
attached and were filed with the Copy-
right Office. Today, everyone searches
those lists to avoid an action for damages
because of using a title already taken
for a novel, film or play. If they decide
they can’t do without their title, they
have to pay a stiff fee to those who have
patented it.
❖ t*
“Sixtoes”: One of the tens of thousands
of New Zealanders who feared the worst
of New Zealand’s Greedy Budget (B.
9/7/’5B) made smartly, for his whole-
saler, staggered out with a mixed case
of gin and Scotch, and found a lorry
double-parked outside him, leaving him
just room to get at his door. He popped
his precious burden on the lorry tray
while he fumbled for his keys. Too late
he realised that the truck was being
driven quietly, engine still off, down the
steep slope of the street. Its rear number-
plates were covered with mud, and, in the
time he took to start, it beat him for
the first lot of traffic-lights. He's still
waiting for a reply to his advertisement.
❖ ❖ *i*
“Oliver Filter”: I see that the Reverend
A. R. Higginson, of Weldon, Northants
(Eng.), is deploring the fact that so
many girls who are not entitled to do
so are wearing white at their weddings—
white, so he says, being the symbol of
virginity, I’m impartial myself, but it
“ 40-30-41—too bad, Honey. Could'a used a
41-30-40."
does seem that the reverend gentleman’s
remarks may have the opposite effect
to that intended—after reading such a
statement more girls than ever will be
wearing white at their weddings.
❖ ❖
“Macdon”: A Melbourne emporium
has a new way of requesting customers
to settle outstanding accounts before the
end of the financial year: a card with
a picture of Oliver Twist asking for
more. The best test of the efficiency of
such a plea would be for the customers
to send similar cards by return, asking
for more credit.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Hattie Hop”: Pre-war, the piece of
land on the north side of my house
was alluded to politely as “the side-
lawn.” Two years ago it became “your
big piece of land,” and last year it was
referred to as “all that spate
land,” as an excuse for in-
creased municipal rates. This
week I have been approached
by an estate-agent with a
mercenary proposition con-
cerning “that bit of waste
ground.” It is only 40ft.
wide, and seemed to me an
infinitesimal fragment when
I salvaged it from our old
garden, which comprised
almost two acres. On the
remainder, two houses, five
blocks of flats and two
bungalows were crowded,
and the agent was amazed
that I would retain a desir-
able building-site that had
“nothing but trees on it.”
The more people want a
thing, the less they seem to
think of it.
♦!« ♦>
“Arthur R.”: Unable to
understand why so many
middle-aged women were
answering her telephoned
advertisement for a house-
keeper, the woman under-
stood when she had a look
at the ad. Instead of “Week-
ends Free,” the newspaper
telephonist had made it
“Weekend Spree.”
“Dorian”: The “Lolly Pop” pop.-song
is surely a quaintly paradoxical essay—
ridiculous words (“Oh, Lolly Pop! ”)
wedded to what might have been the
beginnings of an old Italian lute-song. It’s
doubtful if Tin Pan Alley regards it as
more than a reiterative bit of rhythm
(remember “Oh, My Papa”?), but I must
admit the final entry, which is a mild
sort of canon for three voices, could
easily preserve it for longer than most
top-pops.
THIS WON’T HURT A LITTLE
“Wanted: Dental receptionist, attractive,
vivacious manner.” —Positions vacant ad.
When you’ve a tooth giving you gyp,
So that it’s agony even to sip,
Let alone chew; and when your dial
(Or half of it) is all blown up,
Distended like a poisoned pup —■
You may consider this a trial,
Enough, at least, to get you mad.
But, still, that agony’s not as bad
As when to dentist you’ve gone tearing,
And there you’ve had to give your name
To dead-eyed and forbidding dame
Whose frontispiece could do with
paring !
Dental appointments can be fun
If the receptionist be one
Whose personality’s sparkling, vivid;
Instead of basilisk eye to freeze,
A gorgeous smile will put at ease
The patient who from fear is livid.
Can vintage-periodical
Compete for interest with the gal
Whose winsome manner is a winner?
This dentist —quite a strategist —
Knows no male patient can resist
Such an attraction —come in, spinner!
Here is the drill (not the affair,
Dreaded, he uses to prepare
An outsize cavity for filling ).*
He needs a good receptionist,
Nifty enough to make a fist
Of warming ’em instead of chilling.
Perhaps, too, he has this in view:
While it means one, or even two
For those whose molars need retread-
ing,
It could mean half-a-dozen for
The bloke who fiddles with your jaw—
Is that the needle that he’s threading?
N.S.VV.
S.W.K.


INDUSTRY AND THE RAILWAYS No. 6
im.
m
6t
ii
,•••••<
m
<W
.^Z
i
K
:
«
It began £nm 1855
In 1855 the people of New South Wales elected their first Legislative
Assembly built their first railway line, saw the beginning of the
Colonial Sugar Refining Company.
The first railway was from Sydney to Parramatta a modest 14 miles
of track that grew to over 6,000 to help speed development of the
fertile hinterland.
The C.S.R. Company grew, too, in New South Wales, throughout Australia,
and in Fiji and New Zealand. In 1938 it began making insulating board
from cane fibre; today it is the largest single manufacturer of building
materials in Australia.
The expansion of the New South Wales Government Railways and the C.S.R.
Company has been complementary in many ways.
The Railways carry to the C.S.R. Company's factories in Sydney, raw
materials, such as gypsum, limestone, cane fibre and timber, and freight
the finished products of the factories to the people of New South Wales
■ — a two-way traffic which is helping raise the living standards of the
State.
For twenty-four hours in every day the New South Wales Government
Railways is playing a vital part in a dramatic story a story of wheat,
wool, steel, coal, of the minerals of the earth, the produce of the soil
a story that has already taken over a century in the telling.
OF
*
%
o:
TT
Q
GO
fS£
V
P*
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT


POLITICAL POINTS
The mystery of Khrushchev’s sudden
visit to Peking was really no mystery at
all. He’d heard that Clive Evatt was
coming to Moscow.
• •
The fact that there were no Budget-leaks
this year is all the more remarkable in
view of subsequent complaints that there
was nothing in the Budget when Artie
unwrapped it.
• •
Cahill’s American trip seems to have
changed the direction of his thinking on
two matters connected with transport. He
came back admitting that there might be
something in tunnels after all. Before he
went away he wouldn’t have a bar of
them. He is also having second thoughts
about toll-roads. He told the Australian
Road Federation on Friday night that
although tolls had been discarded years
ago it might be necessary to try them
again as an alternative way of getting
roads built when finance for road-building
was limited.
The N. S. Wales Premier said that
tollways as supplementary roads would
offer the motorist alternative and speedier
routes if he was willing to pay the toll.
In the last year or so several private
concerns have been reported as willing
to build toll-roads on a franchise basis,
the roads to revert to the State after an
agreed period. It isn’t likely that Cahill
has this in mind. His toll-roads would be
State-owned from the start, but the toll
would go on for ever.
• •
It’s probably only a coincidence that
Mr. Dulles and L’il Abner arrived in
Brazil at the same time.
• •
Khrushchev in search of a summit.
July 19: K. called for a summit con-
ference of the leaders of Britain, U.S.,
France, India and Russia, plus the U.N.
Secretary-General, “any time, anywhere.”
July 23: Britain and U.S. said they were
willing to attend summit talks in Security
Council. July 24: K. agreed, and sug-
gested India and the Arab States should
also attend. July 26: U.S. said perma-
nent members of Security Council should
fix place and date. July 29: K. accused
West of delay. Asked them to name a
day. Said he would attend a conference
in Geneva, Paris, Vienna or Moscow.
July 31: Britain proposed August 12, in
New York, Geneva or any other place
generally acceptable. August 1: U.S.
expressed willingness to attend on or
about August 12 ; would not insist on
New York, but could not agree to accept
Moscow as the site. August 6: K.
rejected Security Council summit and
called for a meeting of the General
Assembly.
• •
It now appears that the real reason
Cahill went to America was to build-up
goodwill. But that’s not the reason he
gave before he went abroad.
• •
Playford came back from his hush-
hush U.S. trip at the weekend, still very
hushy-hushy about its purpose. Wes-
tralian Deputy Premier Tonkin is still
in America, reputedly angling for a
carbon-black factory for Kwinana.
• •
Six shire councils in the Mitchell Region
have asked Cahill to receive a deputation
to discuss the proposed amalgamation
plan and to postpone meantime the Dane
inquiry into the plan. They have also
sent every member of the N. S. Wales
Parliament a statement refuting Local
Government Minister Renshaw's claim
that the initiative for the redrawing of
boundaries in the Central West came
from the shires themselves.
The statement, signed by the presidents
of six councils, emphatically denies this,
and says, “Before the Minister announced
that he intended to send investigators
into the Central West no shire in the
area had made any application or
approach to the Minister for any altera-
tion of boundary.”
Will the N. S. Wales Premier be moved
by this direct approach? Well, after all,
the Renshaw Plan is merely the Cahill
Plan with trimmings.
• •
“Mugga Way”: In Lloyd Ross’s Life
Story of John Curtin, now appearing in
serial form in several Australian papers,
theie are some noticeable gaps and some
memon-stirring incidents. As one of
the small group who spent the Sunday
evening before Pearl Harbor with Curtin
1 still find it inexplicable that the
Americans were not on the alert long
before the Jap. planes approached that
base. Curtin knew the Japs were on
the move, and he told us he had warned
Roosevelt. It will be interesting to see
if Ross discloses why Curtin never went
to New Guinea during the war, and
why he went to the United States a day
or two before the great occasion of
D-day in Europe.
ST. BERT TO THE RESCUE
“Commenting on the Menzies-Fadden Budget, Dr. Evatt said, ‘It remains for the Australian
Labor Party to come to the rescue of the people.’”
“Bring out your dragons! Where are your dragons?”


Last Friday, August 8, was the fortieth
anniversary of the Allied breakthrough
on the Western Front in World War I.
Spearheaded by Australian troops of the
2nd, 3rd, 4th and sth Divisions, the
advance did not let-up until the Armistice
in November. Ludendorf described
August 8 as “the black day of the German
Army.”
• •
Judging by Robert Murphy’s impres-
sions there hasn’t really been a revolution
in Iraq at all. He was “cordially
received” by the new rulers, who gave
him “frank answers to questions on their
future policy.” He was impressed by
their “earnestness and alertness” and said
they seemed determined “to keep free
of world blocs and have a forward-
looking policy.” At the same time, it's
going to be pretty hard to convince King
Feisal, his uncle and Nuri es Said that
they’re not dead.
• •
Last month, in the course of a stormy
scene arising out of his allegations that
the electoral rolls of Leichhardt (Sydney)
Council were full of irregularities, Aider-
man E. S. Lewis said to Alderman J. G.
Brady, “You are a bigger liar than
Ananias and he was the father of all
liars.” Refusing to apologise, he left the
council-chamber after the mayor had
summoned the police. All who have any
regard for tradition will be pleased to
hear that Ananias is still the champ. At
a meeting of the council last Tuesday
Alderman Lewis withdrew his remark
and apologised unreservedly.
• •
Harold Holt told the Reps, that there
were fewer people registered as unem-
ployed now than there were in January,
despite the steadily growing additions to
the size of the work-force. Instead of
being pleased at this information Ward
and Co. didn’t seem to believe it. In
fact, they didn’t even seem to want to
believe it.
• •
Woolmen got some comforting reas-
surance last week from an unexpected
source. The chairman of the fibres divi-
sion of 1.C.1. said that many manufac-
turers of synthetic fibres had given-up the
search for a wool-substitute and that he
himself couldn’t imagine one being dis-
covered in the foreseeable future:
It is extremely difficult to imagine that
all the extraordinary properties of wool
could be simulated in a synthetic fibre.
We spent £2 million sterling on one pro-
tein fibre alone, which we hoped would
come close to the mark. But we had to
admit defeat and give it away.
Name of the chap who dispensed this
soothing balm? Dr. Caress.
• •
S.A. has raised its upward limit for
housing-loans from £2250 to £3500 and
reduced deposits—a £3OOO house will
now require a deposit of £l6O.
• •
U.S. Teamsters’ Union boss James
Hoffa, when asked by the Senate
Rackets Committee to explain “extra”
income he had received amounting to
£27,000, said it came from fortunate race-
bets. If the Senators had studied the pro-
ceedings of Australian royal commissions
involving Labor politicians they wouldn’t
have troubled to ask that question.
They’d have known that that’s the only
way anyone ever gets extra money.
• •
Sydney City Council (with other metro-
politan municipalities) is optimistically
asking the Commonwealth Government
to give-up Victoria Barracks and other
sites occupied by the Army to provide
land for housing-schemes. When the
matter was being discussed by the
council’s finance-committee Alderman
Thom (D.L.P.) said he intended shortly
to propose that the council should sell
its hotel property (valued at £1,860,000)
to raise money for building homes. The
council owns 12 pubs. None of the
aldermen showed any signs of wild
enthusiasm.
• •
Victorians were asked for £500,000 in
the cancer appeal and gave £1,350,000:
Country, £312,000; “Operation Door
Knock,” £303,000; industry and com-
merce, £270,000 ; special gifts, £lBO,OOO ;
women's committee, £lOO,OOO ; patronage
£101,000; functions, £29,000; miscel-
laneous, £52,000. The appeal received
eye-opening publicity from radio, TV
and newspapers, some of which even lent
experienced reporters for weeks.
• •
Sometimes it’s hard to know whether
Cahill is pulling the public’s leg or his
own. Take his statement that Labor
had brought N. S. Wales “to world-
leadership in the field of industrial arbi-
tration.” Since the end of the war the
N. S. Wales Labor Government has on
numerous, occasions flouted the arbitra-
tion system by taking legislative or
executive action on matters that were
properly within the jurisdiction of the
courts. There was the 40-hour week,
introduced by the McGirr Government
as an election-bribe while the Federal
Arbitration Court was hearing evidence
of the trade-unions’ claim for it. There
were the occasions when the Cahill
Government overruled its own Railway
Commissioner when he was taking action
in the Arbitration Court over weekend-
pay. There was its somersault over
quarterly adjustments. And, as Opposi-
tion-leader Morton has pointed out, there
is its present programme of equal-pay,
three-weeks’ annual leave and long-
service pay for casual workers —all
matters properly the concern of the
courts.
Morton says that on any issue from
which it can draw political capital the
Cahill Government bypasses arbitration.
• •
Shire- and municipal-councils will
probably be adding photographers to
their staffs this year. Parramatta aider-
men, asked how they came to get a loan-
allocation of £lBO,OO0 —a record sum and
apparently more than they expected—-
said perhaps it was because they sub-
mitted photographs instead of long
reports.
• •
A petition, signed by 16,000 people,
asking for a new State in North Queens-
land has been lodged with the Speaker
of the Queensland Assembly. Premier
Nicklin says no early action will be
taken in the matter; his Government
will most likely wait until the report of
the Commonwealth Constitutional Com-
mittee is made public.
• •
In Baghdad they’ve set-up a box in
which informants may lodge complaints
against public corruption under guaran-
teed secrecy. This is a chance for Clyde
Cameron, M.H.R., to tell all he knows.
He must know something, because he has
described the former Iraq Government
as “one of the most ruthless and corrupt
the Middle East has ever known.”
• •
After putting over dearer electricity
and gas, and with more expensive public-
transport charges certain, Victorian
Cabinet members are now examining
probate-duty, land-tax, stamp-duties, a
hire-purchase tax and Government
charges. It is unlikely more can be taken
from racing or cinemas, because both are
just making ends meet.
There is no thought in Spring Street
of economising in the public service, or
its fleets of cars. Victorian public ser-
vants, who have recently had rises up
to £6OO a year, in some cases, with mag-
nificent cars to match, aver Bolte is the
most wonderful Premier that ever hap-
pened along.
• •
“Collins Street” interviews a dual
personality:
Melbourne City Council, which is often as
harmonious and convivial as a congenial club,
is difficult to enter, and it was therefore a
surprise to see in the lists of candidates for
the forthcoming elections L. E. Warner twice
—a candidate against Bernard Evans for Gipps
and against W. H. Luxton for Hoddle. He
turned out to be Mr. Leonard Warner, who
runs the successful Waltham Trading Co., a
brother of Sir Arthur Warner, and just as blunt,
vigorous and forthright.
Question : Why have you nominated for
two wards?
Answer: Because 1 want to get in the
council.
Question: It’s expensive to contest one ward,
isn’t it?
Answer: Yes, but if you contest only one
you have about 20 members of the Civic
Group, all councillors, ranged against you,
and their wives and uncles and aunties and
all the rest of their relatives. Dr. Leslie Smith
should have won Albert ward last time, but all
the councillors fought against him, and we
even had the spectacle of the Lord Mayor
handing out how-to-vote cards.
Question : Where does that get us?
Answer: I’m contesting two wards to keep
the sitting councillors busy in their own back-
yards, and if there hadn’t been opposition
in the other wards, 1 would have tackled the
whole lot. .
Question: You are opposed to the Civic
Group? , ,
Answer: The Civic Group is run by a lew
industrial magnates prepared to spend a lot
of money so that the average ratepayer can t
alford to contest wards against them. Having
all the councillors descend on a ward against
you is like boxing at the Stadium and having
to take on the spectators, too.


PERSONAL ITEMS
“Judee”: The first scholarship to the
Technological University of Delft
(Holland), awarded by the Hunter Valley
Research Foundation and the Dutch
Government, has gone to Aubrey Gavin
Newman, 8.E., of Maitland (N.S.W.). He
graduated from Newcastle University
College this year in civil engineering.
• •
Older playgoers have been delighted
by Campbell Copelin’s return to the Aus-
tralian boards: he plays second male lead
STAGE
to Robert Helpmann in Noel Coward’s
“Nude with Violin” at Melbourne
Comedy. In the 18 years since he left
Australia Copelin has lost none of his
ability or sense of wit; though maybe
his fiery temperament has cooled a bit.
He made his first appearance in Aus-
tralia at the height of theatre prosperity
in the pre-talkie era, notably in “Out-
ward Bound,” and later in such pieces
as “As Husbands Go,” “Autumn
Crocus,” “Mother of Pearl” and “Her
Past” (with Delysia).
Copelin (pictured) put in five years with
the R.A.F.; then played in the U.S. and
England. He returned to Australia to
be with his two sons, Martin and James,
who grew-up in Melbourne and are now
in business there.
• •
After 20,000 hours and four-million
miles of flying, Peter Gibbes, operations-
manager of Ansett-A.N.A., has made his
last flight in command of an airline!
between Sydney and Melbourne. Still
young, as top airline executives go,
he has flown more than 80 types
of aircraft, commercial or R.A.A.F,
Route-captain of the initial Sydney-
San Francisco line for B.C.P.A. when
A. operated it under charter, he
was stationed at Honolulu, where he
became expert at surfboard-riding. Later,
he was also route-captain of the Sydney-
London run for Air Ceylon when it was
half-owned by A.N.A.
• •
Back from a three-month business-
trip round the world, 1. R. Rolle, wool-
buyer and associate-director of K. V.
Chapman and Co., of Sydney, visited the
United States, England, the Continent
and Japan, where he met E. Klestadt,
formerly lecturer in Japanese history at
the Australian National University and
now employed in a commercial firm in
Tokyo. Rolle’s report on the wool-
market: in general, subdued, with more
interest in Japan than in the U.S. or
Europe ; English and Italian merchants
have taken a knock over the last two
years’ trading because of speculative
prices paid for wool about the time of
the Suez crisis.
• •
A gifted pupil returns as assist-
ant to his old master when Trevor
Jones takes up a lectureship in music at
Sydney University—under Professor
Donald Peart’s tutorage he graduated
B. with first-class honors. His instru-
ments were the bassoon and the recorder,
which made him a “natural” for research
into that outsize woodwind the didgeri-
doo, which he plays as expertly as any
abo. He has been overseas on a scholar-
ship, spending a year at Harvard
University studying composition with
Randall Thompson and Walter Piston ;
another year at Cambridge under
Thurston Dart; and the final one at the
Royal College of Music for composition
and conducting. In the art of using a
baton to extract the best from an
orchestra he also had the benefit of
private tuition from Eugene Goossens.
• •
Organiser of one of the most success-
ful of the post-war migration schemes,
Pat Farnan has retired from the Vic-
torian Railways secretaryship. A man
of service (as the Railways ads. say) for
49 years, he made two recruiting drives
in Europe. In the first, in 1949, he
sought married Britons and was able to
hand-pick those he wanted —being chair-
man of the Railways Staff Board at the
time—because he could offer family-men
a house within three weeks after they
left their ship in Melbourne. His second
drive brought single Britons and Ger-
mans, and altogether he was responsible
for gathering 1000 recruits for the Rail-
ways. Only 16 per cent, of the married
Britons have since left that employment,
though single men tend to drift more
He was saddened, though, over all the
married Britons he had to leave behind ;
the better type of tradesmen who wanted
to come to Australia, but who were
effectively frightened-off by the housing
situation.
Fit and brisk as ever, Pat Farnan leaves
his job with regrets because he feels he
has years of useful service ahead of him
and that an arbitrary age-limit for retire-
ment is unfair. Among his spare-time
interests he has been a supporter, as
player or official, of South Melbourne
League Club for just on 60 years.
• •
In Australia for six months to collect
material for a book on world-vegetation,
Professor Heinrich Walter is in the
top bracket of agricultural botanists.
For his first researches in the south-west
(which, he says, is botanically one of
the most interesting parts of the world)
he will have the assistance of botany-
students and members of the staff of
the Westralian University. Later, he
will go to Wiluna to work for a week
with a C.5.1.R.0. research-team.
• •
William Warfield, one of the great
baritones of this generation, returns to
Sydney for recitals at the Town Hall
on August 16, 19, 21 and 23. Born in
West Helena, Arkansas (U.S.A.), War-
field showing early promise as a singer
and, from high-school, won a scholar-
ship to the Eastman School in Rochester.
He made his debut at the New York
Town Hall in 1950 and soon afterwards
came out on his first Australian tour ;
while in Adelaide he received a cable
offering him the role of Joe in “Show-
boat.” His career since then has been
CONCERT-PLATFORM
one success after another, including his
memorable appearance in Gershwin’s
opera “Porgy and Bess,” when he
played opposite his wife, Leontyne Price.
The present goodwill tour —for the U.S.


State Department —started last August
and has been very concentrated, the
singer coming here from Saigon and, in
due course, leaving here with Leontyne
Price to sing at the Brussels World’s
Fair.
• •
Perth advertising-executive, 45-year-
old Alexander Edward Owen Barras,
official Liberal candidate for Mount
Lawley in the Westralian Assembly, was
the first of only three R.A.A.F. men to
win the Military Medal in World War 11.
After his Wellington bomber had been
shot-down by flak during a night raid
on Tobruk, he and five crew-mates had
several brushes with the enemy infantry.
Two of the airmen were captured, but
Barras and the other three covered 450
miles in a 22-days’ trek, crossed the
Quattara Depression and rejoined the
British forces at El Alamein.
• •
From his office on the opposite side
of Hamilton Street, Sydney, average-
agent R. N. Isherwood has watched The
Bulletin comps, for 27 years, but had
never been inside the building until the
other day. A New Zealander, Isherwood
went to Calcutta in 1922, working with
the New Zealand Insurance Co. While
there he played Rugby football, soldiered
with the Calcutta Scottish and won 18
cups at rifle-shooting—a thief broke-in
one night and took the lot. Isher-
wood came to Melbourne in 1926, still
with the N.Z. Insurance, and in 1930 he
moved to Sydney and started on his own.
• •
Elected president of the N.S.W. Stock
and Station Agents’ Association, H. L.
(“Herb”) Milling belongs to Dubbo
(N.S.W.) and to a family of stock-and-
station agents known throughout the
Commonwealth. Three days before the
start of World War I his father, O. L.
Milling, opened as a stock-and-station
agent in Dunedoo and today the Milling
interests extend to Dubbo and Mudgee,
with an associated firm in Gulargambone
and an interest on the managerial side
of a stock-and-station agency-business in
Trangie. Milling, senior, is a life-member
of the association and, at 83, is still
actively interested in its affairs.
• •
“Uramao”: New Zealander G. C.
Israel, graduate of the University of
N.Z. and senior lecturer in physical
chemistry at the University of Hong
Kong, has been elected to the Chair of
Chemistry at the University College of
Ghana. Noted for his research-work
on reaction mechanisms, he went to
Hong Kong from the University of
Tasmania.
• •
“C.A.A.”: Victoria’s new Director of
National Parks, Dr. L. H. Smith (he
succeeds the late Crosbie Morrison), is
an authority on the lyrebird. A
Master of Science (Melbourne Uni.) and
a Doctor of Organic Chemistry
(Oxford), he has been chairman of the
committee of management of the Sher-
brooke Forest in the Dandenongs. His
book The Lyrebirds of Sherbrooke made
the critics lyrical.
• •
Elected President of Sydney Legacy,
Major-General Ivan Noel Dougherty,
C.8.E., D.S:O. and Bar, E.D., B.Ec., is
LEGACY
also Deputy-Chancellor of Sydney Uni-
versity, past-president of the United
Service Institution of N.S.W., and Slate
Director of Civil Defence.
• •
Two old newspaper and A.I.F. asso-
ciates came together again in the Sydney
acquisition of Commercial Relations
Service Pty., Ltd., by Hill and Knowlton
Pty., Ltd. A. F. D. Brodie, managing-
director of Hill and Knowlton, continues
in that job, while Owen O’Brien, of
Commercial Relations, becomes deputy
managing-director of the combined
organisation. Both Brodie and O’Brien
enlisted as privates in World War II and
earned their commissions in infantry
battalions. O’Brien was recalled to the
Australian Regular Army as a lieut.-
colonel in 1951 and served as director
of public-relations to the British Com-
monwealth Forces in Japan and Korea ;
then as director of public-relations to
the combined services recruiting cam-
paign under Lieut.-General Sir Horace
Robertson. He remained with the Army
Public Relations Directorate until 1955,
when he transferred to similar business
in Civvy Street.
• •
New elections to the Council of the
Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W. are
R. J. Vicars, of Sydney, and D. K.
Badgery, of Aramana, South Grafton
(N.S.W.). Vicars was Controller of
Woollens in World War II and gained
a C.B.E. in 1953 for public services.
Badgery, who. breeds stud Jersey cattle
and pigs and is a councillor of the
Grafton Show Society, follows a family
tradition as the sixth Badgery to serve
on the R.A.S. Council.
• •
Appointed Colonel-Commandant of
the Royal Australian Corps of Signals,
Major-General C. H. Simpson, of Mel-
bourne, was educated at Caulfield
Grammar, won the M.C. with the 39th
Battalion in War 1 and held a number
of important Signals appointments in
War 11. In 1941 he became Signal Officer-
in-Chief, A.I.F.
• •
Taking his LL.B. with honors at the
Westralian University in 1956, J. K.
Walch, of Perth, went on a Common-
wealth Fellowship Grant to Chicago for
a year’s post-graduate work, in Consti-
tutional and Industrial Law. Now he’s
been awarded Chicago University’s
Doctorate of Law.
• •
Into the Silence:
At Wongan Hills (W.A.), at 67, John Hugh
Ackland, tall and outspoken M.L.A. lor
Moore since 1947. He went from Adelaide
to the West in 1896 and, from virgin land in
the Wongan Hills district, developed one of
the most prosperous farms in the wheat-
belt. He served with the 28th Bn. of the
Ist A.I.F. in World War I.
In Launceston (Tas.), at 91, John P. Sullivan,
who started a small shop at his mother's home
and built it into a lamily business with branches
in the leading towns in northern Tasmania.
In Melbourne, at 65, Archbishop Theophy-
lactus, spiritual leader of more than 100,000
Greeks in Australia and New Zealand, leader
of the Russian, Ukrainian and Syrian Orthodox
Churches here, and representative of the
Patriarch of Constantinople. Born in Greece,
he came to Australia 30 years ago.
At Christchurch (N.Z.), at 88, Dr. Percival
Clennell Fenwick. He served in the Boer War
and commanded No. 1 and 2 N.Z. Central Hos-
pitals in World War 1. A member of the
British Empire Cancer Campaign Society, he
was one of the first in the Southern Hemisphere
to use radium for cancer-treatment.
In Sydney, at 79, H. K. Nock, Federal
member for Riverina, 1931-40, Assistant
Minister in charge of External Territories,
1939-40, and former secretary of the Federal
Country-party and Country-party Whip. From
1928-32 he was general president of the Farmers’
and Settlers’ Association of N.S.W.
In Brisbane, at 80, Sid Redgrave, who played
cricket for N.S.W. in Trumper’s day and later
represented Queensland (before that State
entered the Sheffield Shield). He was later
a Queensland selector for four years.
In Melbourne, at’ 88, H. J. Rossiter, news-
paper-proprietor and active follower of various
sporting organisations.
In Sydney, at 75, Arthur William Cains,
formerly manager in Taree and Goulburn lor
the A.M.P., and past-president of Goulburn
Rotary, Legacy and R.S.L. In the
Kaiser’s War served with New Guinea Expedi-
tionary Force and later taken prisoner by
enemy raider Wolf en route to France.
In Springbank (S.A.), at 66, Leonard Bryan
Carter, former programme-director in S.A. lor
the A.B.C.
In Perth, Cliff (“Tiny”) Hatcher, an original
Anzac, 16th Battalion and 4th Machine-gun
Company. He served right through from
Landing to evacuation, and in the major engage-
ments of the company in France, earning a.
commission and the M.C.


ABORIGINALITIES
ONE BEACHCOMBER TO ANOTHER
TO “SNOW,” FROM “IRISH”
The most experienced active practitioner on our northern coasts
writes to a retired contemporary of his nicely-payable work off the
beaches and the marine wealth of the North. Signing himself “Irish”
and writing to “Snow,” he asks what’s wrong with other, younger
Australians that they are not up there hunting a share of this wealth.
“Snow” here interpolates explanations (in brackets) as required.
{Continued from last week )
Thought I’d like to have a look over
all the old grounds from the Gulf
(Exmouth Gulf, W.A.) round to
Cooktown before I slip my moor-
in 8 s -
Knowing how the inshore reefs and
shallow water had been skinned-out even
before you left, I didn't expect to make
enough to pay expenses, but reckoned
it would be worth while as a holiday
to meet the old hands among the whites ,
and some of the binghi (aboriginal) boys
who d worked for me in days gone by.
Being a bit old to work under water,
didn t take any diving-gear, but made a
couple of grabs (movable forks on long
bamboo poles), a couple of water-tele-
scopes (glass-bottomed boxes), and
bought half-a-dozen pairs of water-
glasses. Thought this would be enough
gear to pick-up all the (pearl) shell I’d be
likely to run across in the shallow water.
Paid-off my Koepang crew, took the
boat across to Cossack on my own, and
there picked-up a couple of my old half-
caste boys who d been loafing round the
town and were glad to get to sea again—
each, £2O a month and tucker, and £lOO
a ton between them on anything we
got—(pearl) shell, trochus, trepang, or
tortoise (hawksbill turtle) shell—pearls
all mine. Back in the ’twenties we used
to pay them 30s. a month,
As soon as they’d settled-in aboard,
went straight down to the Gulf (Ex-
mouth). Within an hour of starting work
thought we’d struck a patch—picked-up
scwt. of (pearl) shell for the day with
the grabs—could have got a ton with
diving-gear. After about a week I woke-
up that we weren’t on a patch—that it
was the same everywhere. The grounds
had been spelled so long that shell was
lying all along the coast as thick as
when old Dampier first came here,
Found-out later it was the same all
along the 3000-odd miles to Cooktown.
Only crocs, are not as thick as they
used to be. They’ve been pretty well
shot over since the war.
The few luggers now working get from
25 to 30 tons of (pearl) shell a year
working only during neaps and going
into port in springs—one week in two
“They tell me St. Bernard was a teetotaller."
(12 tons was a good pre-war take work-
ing both springs and neaps). Incidentally,
there are now only about 40 boats work-
ing the W.A. coast, as against the 400-odd
back in 1912.
'T'here was enough shell in the Gulf
to keep me —and half-a-dozen other
boats —there permanently, but as I
wanted to cover the whole coast round
to Cooktown in about 18 months I shifted
up to Mangrove Islands and the Barrow
Banks.
Picked-up about five tons of shell
around the islands and a few
small stones (pearls) around the 10-
to 15-grain mark (probably worth
between £5O and £lOO each). On
the banks we picked-up half-a-ton in
a fortnight and I got a very nice 20-
grain round stone worth, I reckon, every
penny of £6OO. Much to my regret,
couldn’t work the Mary Anne Passage,
or later the Flying Foam, as the six and
seven fathoms in them was too deep for
my grabs with their 20ft. poles.
Around Mangrove Islands met the only
boat working out of Onslow —two third-
rate old Jap divers I’d known in Broome
before the war. Told me they never
went over six fathoms, never worked in
spring-tides, and expected to get 40 tons
of (pearl) shell for the year. Didn’t
believe ’em, but found-out afterwards
they’d done it —and only worked about
20 weeks. It’s the record year’s take
for the Australian coast. What they
got in stuff (pearls) I never heard —neither
did anyone else. It must have run into
thousands of pounds’-worth, for they’d
average not less than a hundred-quids’
worth of stuff per ton from shell any-
where around that area, and a darned
sight more if they got much of their
shell —as they probably did —on the
Barrow Banks.
T>y this time I’d realised that, although
I’d done fairly well on the offshore
reefs, I’d wasted my time there. Could
have made twice as much on the reefs
and in the shallow water inshore.
Went into Onslow to ship my shell to
New York, and met all the old hands
there. None of them interested in shell
now —all mad on oil.
Moved along the coast in easy stages,
going ashore to call in at any binghi
campfires I saw, or to shoot a sheep now
and again when we wanted meat as a
change from fish, oysters, and crayfish.
Right throughout the trip I found there
were only about 10 per cent, of the
binghis on the coast that there used to
be 20 years ago. Most camps there’d be
only one or two bucks and gins, with an
occasional forlorn little blighter of a
piccaninny with no other kids to play
with. Asked where the rest of the tribe


REACHING FOR THE MOON


were they’d always give the same answer,
“No more. Altogether finish” (dead).
Called in at Cossack and Hedland—-
they also were dead as ever. From there
ran round to the Condon Banks, where
the shell’s thicker than at Mangrove
Islands or the Gulf. Within five miles
of Condon the (pearl) shell on the banks
is worth more than all the sheep ever
grazed on De Grey (a large station JO
miles from Condon), but at the home-
stead they told me that nobody from the
station has picked-up a shell for the past
25 years.
I got two tons there in a month and
found a beaut stone —a 3(f-grain button
(half sphere, worth probably around £600)
and several smaller stones. They called
to mind the day I was aboard Otto
Blackman’s schooner when he found two
on the one morning—each worth £l2OO
—and during the afternoon Bandy-legged
Tony came across with a two-thousand-
pounder he’d just found.
A long the Ninety Mile Beach, Wallal
■*-Downs and Anna Plains have been
developed into pretty decent stations—
otherwise there’s nothing between Con-
don and Broome, except, of course, the
shell along the beach. Picked-up a fair
quantity around the Washes (two reefs
along the Ninety Mile Beach), but near
“If you re looking for the tool-box, it's up in the attic."
Mangrove Point the water wasn’t clear
enough to work with the grabs, although
of course the Broome boats (luggers)
work there regularly during the South-
east *
Broome flourishing. About 40 boats
(luggers) working from there, and they’ve
also got a meatworks, As the boats come
in every spring-tide there’s a fair amount
of cash floating around the town through-
out the year. Some of the white women
who went up there from Melbourne and
Sydney as wives and girl-friends of
Malay divers get a fair share of it, but
they haven’t noticeably improved the
social atmosphere.
Between the Gulf and Broome met
about a hundred old-hands, aged between
the sixties and the eighties. Some
prosperous and still able to afford their
bottle of grog a day. Others, on the
pension, have to make-do on beef —or
home-brew. Some even thinking of re-
form. Old , now 83, told me he’d
cut himself down to half a bottle of gin
a day after his last attack of d.t.s five
years ago, and was thinking of cutting
out liquor altogether. All showing the
effects of a lifetime of hard living and
hard drinking in Australia’s tropics—
still hale and hearty. Anywhere else
they’d have been dead and buried 20
years ago.
(To be continued next week)
* 9 * *
Cutting around the fire in the Tas-
manian farm-house we were visiting,
our conversation was interrupted by a
scratching on the roof. Our host glanced
up at the clock and said, “That’s Possie
—she’s on time.” By the time he had
got outside with its supper of bread and
j am the possum was waiting for him.
After she had finished eating she took
along another lot for her joey. “Been
coming here for 17 years,” said our host,
“We reared her from a joey.” Don’t
know the life-span of possums, but surely
that must be close to a record for the
furry one’s human friendship.—“ Anon.”
* * * *
“Kate”: My big daphne-bush was
smothered in bloom, but its perfume was
so faint you had to bury your nose in
the blossom to know it was there. I
began to think I’d lost my sense of smell,
but after the first frost the perfume
floated strongly for chains around and
remained so while there was a flower
left on the bush. Why?
* * * *
“Aleon”: Heaviest bird’s-nest I’ve
struck belonged to a pair of white-faced
herons which, year after year, added a
story to the original they put up in a
gum near the homestead. Then an out-
size wind brought it toppling. Com-
posed of prickly lime-branches held to-
gether with wire of every description, it
weighed nearly 101 b.
THE MANSFIELD DIESEL
Where the tussocks wave by Wallan
And the hawks hang overhead
Into the dusk like a phantom train
The Mansfield Diesel sped.
The silver rails like ribbons shone
And gleamed in the failing light; .
The wheels were loud with a racing song
As she swept into the night.
For sweet was the sound of the engine’s
-- purr,
' As the horses strained inside;
They were doing a wondrous job tonight
To the top of the Great Divide.
The mists were white on the darkening
hills,
As she took to the rising straight;
And the driver watched for a beckoning
green,
For she was fifteen late.
Oh there's nothing that looks so grand to
me
As the sight of a railway-train
Arounding the bend in the fall of night
In a shower of misty rain.
To see her roar beneath the trees
And flash by gullies deep
And hear, the echoes when she’s gone
Rush back again to sleep.
The Junction lights were showing green
As the Mansfield Diesel loomed
Through the scudding mist on the moun-
tain-top
Like a greyhound newly groomed.
Then down the range to Wandong
The lithe blue phantom flew,
And the god of trains with a touch of
pride
Smiled when her whistle blew.
Through Kilmore East and Broad ford
The green lights called her on,
Clink, clank o’er points and crossings,
And the Mansfield train was gone.
A passenger reading with delight
A love-tale from a book
Took off his specs and shouted loud,
“By Jove, it’s Tallarook!’’
victoria.
J. M. DUNN.


r T'HE C.5.1.R.0.’s two Cessnas, being
used in rainmaking experiments, are
a familiar sight in the Tamworth and
Glen Innes-Inverell districts of northern
N.S.W. Cloud-seeding is expected to
continue for about three years, and the
scientists are cagey about results so far.
Not so the interested spectators, who are
making extravagant claims on the rain-
makers’ behalf. There have even been
moves to have the experiments stopped,
some blaming cloud-seeding for violent
storms which gullied freshly ploughed
paddocks; but most landholders
enthusiastically support the work, and a
Sydney Weather Bureau official who has
been aiding the C.5.1.R.0. by establish-
ing networks of rain-gauges and recorders
throughout the two areas found no lack
of volunteers. This official has an
unbelievably appropriate name: A. F.
Rainbird. —“Wommadoo.”
* * * *
“J.R.”: Waiting for petrol at Giru
(N.Q.), I watched what appeared to be a
film of black cane-trash drift across the
bitumen road. Closer inspection revealed
something odd about the movement.
One, two, three hops—pause ; one, two,
three hops—pause. As far as the eye
could follow, the road was carpeted with
sixpence-sized baby cane-toads migrat-
ing from one paddock to another. They
never missed a beat. The toughest sar’-
major would have wept with delight to
behold the infant Bufos’ excellent drill
and perfect synchronisation.
* * * *
“Fairf”: I share the doubts of
“Eureka” that a ’roo is “powerless and
can be made to go anywhere at will”
if held by the tail (B. 23/7/’5B). I once
tried it on a medium-sized wallaby
trapped in the corner of a wire-netting
fence. The hopper couldn’t break away,
but it wasn’t powerless ; _ and it was I
who did the tricks at will—the wallaby’s.
Round and round I pivoted—until I
noticed the animal's eyes, and was imme-
diately shocked into releasing my grip.
It was sightless. Then I realised why
I had been able to catch the poor creature
so easily. 1 was spared the ordeal of
putting it out of its misery ; it bounded
oft at fair speed and seemingly with
complete confidence.
• * * *- ■■
“B. A. Ker”: The first settler to try
cattle-raising in Kenya was baffled when
his beasts, though fat and healthy-look-
ing, died in the first year. Massai tribes->
men—-themselves cattle-breeders, after a
fashion—offered the solution : the grass
contained no nutriment. Experts from
England confirmed the diagnosis. In
Australia we have areas similarly affected,
although generally to a lesser degree.
Nature has provided the soil with all
the elements needed for grass but not
for animals that graze on it. In most
cases the missing elements are iron and
cobalt, in minute quantities. Lengthy
C.5.1.R.0. experiments are now about to
come to fruition. The first successful
experiment was with fowls. A small
steel ball passed down a bird’s throat
“From what I can read of Persian it says ‘ Hashish.'"
was found to lodge with the “grit” in
the gizzard. It remained there for the
rest of the fowl’s lifetime, and the action
of digestion caused sufficient cobalt to
emanate from the steel to supply the
deficiencies in diet. With sheep the
experiment was equally successful, the
outlet from the ovine stomach being high,
thus allowing the ball to remain in the
“sagged” lower portion. It won’t work
with cattle, though—the ball passes into
the alimentary canal and is lost.
* * * *
“Narumee”: Didn’t know that rain
triggered-off egg-laying by scrub-hens
(B. 23/7/’5B), but moisture is a certain
prelude to hatching by domestic birds.
The only time our canary-hen takes a
bath when she’s sitting is 24 hours
exactly befor£ the first chick cracks the
shell; and I recall an old chook-farmer
who regularly used his wife’s clothes-
damper to bedew eggs in the incubator
when hatch-time was imminent.
* * * •*
As “5.W.5” has rightly noted here,
horses swim (or don’t) in all shapes,
sizes and temperaments. The finest hack
may be a complete fool in water, while
a quite unremarkable pony or a hysterical
thoroughbred may be a man’s best friend
when there’s a flooded creek to cross.
Our horses used to be taken in mobs
of 30 or 40, led by several known
swimmers, to cross a big waterhole.
Stockmen wearing swim-trunks (if
women were present) and riding bare-
back would drive the mob across, swim-
ming their own mounts alongside. Some,
including drought-born foals having their
first swim, would plunge in and cleave
across like motor-driven dinghies.
Others would panic, turn back, try to
keep their heads out by bounding along
on their hind-legs, but eventually swim,
after a fashion.
Thus the best swimmers were known,
and would be chosen for jobs requiring
their special ability, chief of which was
that dreaded chore “riding the line.”
This meant restoring telephone com-
munication with the nearest town, and
was necessary after every medium-to-
large flood. Trouble might consist of
one simple break or many, with hundreds
of yards of line down and hopelessly
tangled. In any case it meant a 200-mile
round-trip, with several swims and miles
of ploughing through knee-deep mud,
passing only two homesteads within
calling distance.
Soon after the line-rider got through,
the mailman would arrive. Empty petrol-
tins gave his vehicle buoyancy; mail-
bags would be piled on the seat, and his
horses, the daddies of them all in the
water, would swim and tow the clumsy
raft across creek after creek. When
drought and the cost of horsefeed forced
the old chap out of business, we often
had to wait weeks for the mail-car. The
horses under its bonnet never learned to
swim.
MARGARET.


STILL BUDGETING FOR A SURPLUS
■Except that the growth of
■ L/ all Government expendi-
tures remains a matter for
doubt and suspicion in the
minds of the productive and
essential - service - rendering
members of the community, the
Menzies-Fadden Government,
in its 1958-59 Budget, has
maintained its overall financial
integrity by offering the voters
little or nothing in the way of
political bribery in this election-
year.
The Budget has not cast-
off the vices (in the shape of
payroll-tax and anomalous
company-taxation) of its pre-
decessors ; but neither has it,
in a more difficult year,
abandoned the virtues.
In Canberra, also, the-
political background of the
Awful Example across the
Tasman must have been too
close to be ignored.
Although the Treasurer,
Sir Arthur Fadden, emphasised
at the outset of his Budget-
speech that he anticipated a
cash deficit of £llO million
for the year, that anticipated
deficit is largely the result of the
expected difficulty of fully
converting maturing loans this
year and at the same time pro-
viding for the borrowing pro-
grammes of the States.
£24-million Surplus
So far as Consolidated
Revenue is concerned, the
Government is again budgeting
for a surplus, and if capital-
expenditure charged to revenue
is taken into account that
surplus is still a very con-
siderable amount, but
smaller than in previous years.
Although the' Government
may be charged compared
with private - enterprise
standards of some wasteful,
excessive or misdirected
expenditure in its public-service
payroll, in its overall financial
policy it has followed a prudent
course. This has been taken-up
by some critics as a ground
for declaring that the prudent
part of the policy has had to
be shouldered by the private
sector of the economy, while
nothing like prudence is visible
in the manner in which some
Government departments are
conducted. If that is so, then
the matter of departmental
expenditure must be closely
examined ; and one cannot help
feeling that taxation anomalies
persist because it would be
inconvenient for the public
service if they were rectified.
But there is indeed much to
be said in favor of a prudent
overall economic policy. Infla-
tion is still a factor to be con-
tended with through the very
nature of our Welfare State
economy, and through any-
thing but a conservative
financial policy it could be
easily made more difficult for
our export industries to carry
on than it is at present. It is
“ You'd be surprised what I make out of this
cleaning service !”
one thing to give industries
catering for the local market a
“shot -in - the - arm” through
credit-expansion in order to
pep-up demand ; it would be
another thing to cope with
fallen overseas prices at a time
when such credit-expansion was
pushing-up costs within the
Commonwealth.
Booms Not Wanted
There is a section of
economic opinion, especially in
Sydney, that regards a boom-
ing Stock Exchange as an
indicator of economic health.
Nothing is further from the
truth. Booms of any kind are
of no lasting good to the pro-
ductive side of industry, which
is the aspect that really counts.
Reasonable stability is what is
required by the , producer of
goods and services. Under
stable conditions it is easier for
him to obtain equipment,
materials and staff, and to
achieve an economic output.
The businessman who can plan
ahead does a far better job, in
the long-run, than the specm'
lative type who banks on rising
prices and “demand-inflation 7
carrying him over the short-
comings of his own managerial
ability and the productive
deficiencies of his work-force.
The Government has there-
fore been wise to keep .a
weather-eye cocked for any
signs of returning inflation. In
the United States it has been
claimed that that country is
suffering from inflation and
depression at the same time.
Any such situation is to be
guarded against in Australia.
The Government in 1958-59
expects taxation revenue to fall
by £l4 million and other
revenue to increase by £5
million a net fall of £9
million (to £1302 million). It
proposes to spend, in the face
of this fall, about £B7 million
more (at £1278 million). Most
of this increase will be in
respect of social services, pay-
ments to the States, defence,
post-office and departmental.
Where there is some con-
fusion in the presentation of
the estimates is in connection
with the-transfer of £lO2 million
to Loan Consolidation and
Investment Reserve. In earlier
years some Budget surpluses
were transferred to this reserve,
and later on the habit was
established of allocating a sum
in this way before arriving at
a Budget surplus. But in any
accounting sense the sum
represents a surplus, since it is
used to lend to the States or
for redemption of loans, and
is independent entirely of pro-
visions already made for sink-
ing-fund and debt-redemption.
Charging to revenue £7B
million of defence expenditure
Consolidated Revenue, 1958-59.
£mil. £mil.
Receipts (total) .. 1302
Ordinary expenditure 1278
Less Defence charged
to loans .. .. 78 1200
To L.C.I. Reserve*.. —— 102
Total expenditure .. 1302
Outside Consolidated Revenue.
Loan Council and War-service
Settlement.
Outlay —
State works and housing 210
War - - service settlement 7 217,
Receipts —
Loan raisings .. 115
Special loan .. 102 217
Treasury-bill Requirements.
Defence .... 78
Loan redemptions .. 80
Less Sinking Fund 45 35
Trust - fund balances Cr. 3
Cash deficiency .. 110
* See explanation in accompanying
article
arbitrarily debited by the
Treasurer to loan expenditure
(through Treasury-bill finance),
and treating, on the other hand,
the £lO2 million allocated to
Loan Reserve as unexpended
income, there is an actual
revenue surplus for the year of
£24 million.
In addition, this year the
Commonwealth Government i‘~
spending x>ut of revenue £l2B
million on capital works and
services, including £35 million
on war-service homes, £19.5
million on the Sndwy
Mountains project and £36
million on the post-office.
This £l2B million (up £5
million) is strictly of the order
of capital-outlay, and though
some of it may be regarded
in the nature of depreciation
provision, the greater part of
it could have been legitimately
financed out of borrowed
money—if there was that sort
of money to borrow at present.
There isn’t; and in all the cir-
cumstances the financing of
some capital-expenditure out
of revenue is still no bad thing.
£1444-million Over Nine
Years
Over nine years, including
estimates for the current year,
Budget surpluses have totalled


lII*
Let A.N.Z. BANK make al[ your
travel arrangements
Their travel experts will be happy to attend to sea and air bookings,
accommodation, assist you with tax arrangements, passport and visas
in short, every detail of your trip. Travel abroad with the knowledge
that everything is handled reliably through A.N.Z. BANK.
Money for Travel
Whenever you travel,, abroad, interstate or on a country trip, carry
A.N.Z. BANK Travellers’ Cheques. Readily encashable, they are the
safest, most convenient way of carrying money. In the event of loss,
the amount is promptly refunded in full by the Bank.
A.N.Z. Travel Service is available through every
Branch of
AN2497.2458
ANZBANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
£546.9 million and works paid
for out of revenue have aggre-
gated £897.6 million:
Capital
Outlay
Budget From
Surplus Revenue
(£mil.) (£mil) .
1950- .. .. 7.0 31.8
1951- .. .. 98.5 110.6
1952- .. .. 13.4 103.6
1953- .. .. 56.3 94.1
1954- .. .. 70.1 95.7
1955- .. .. 61.6 101.9
1956- .. .. 111.6 107.8
1957- ..„ .. 104.4 123.5
1958- .. .. 24.0 128.6
546.9 897.6
*. Estimate.
This combined total of £1444.5
million has been of material
benefit in curbing monetary
inflation in the economy,
though it has fought a losing
battle against the awards of
the arbitration courts and
Socialist State Government
legislation. It is not really
possible for moderafe mone-
tary curbs to cope with
inflatidn at the industrial level.
But with restraints operating
in both spheres recently there
has been a welcome tendency
for inflation to be checked, not-
withstanding the high wool
income of the 1956-57 season.
That check to inflation is of
great value now that wool
prices are down and with them
prices for nearly all other
commodities.
Revenue and Loans
This year, because of the
fall in farm incomes and the
consequent reaction on the
rest of the economy, revenue
has received its first check in
many years. It so happens that
this is a year in which £337
million of old loans are matur-
ing. (Last’year maturities were
also heavy at £399 million.)
It is anticipated that £BO mil-
lion of these will not be con-
verted and will have to be
redeemed. Redemptions up to
£45 million will be met out of
income from the National
Debt Sinking Fund, and £32
million net will be met by the
reissue of Treasury bills. This
£32 million, plus the £7B mil-
lion of defence which has been
arbitrarily debited to the Loan
Fund and which will also have
to be met out of Treasury-bill
finance, make the Treasurer’s
estimated cash deficit of £llO
million.
But this cash position should
not be confused with the
revenue position, which, in
fact, shov/s a revenue surplus
of £24 million (as explained
already) when the £lO2 million
loaned to State Governments
is treated in its proper light.
Something has been made
of the £llO million of Treasury-
bill finance as a source of some
inflation, on the one hand, and
as an inadequate “shot-in-the-
arm” for industry on the other.
Its influence should not be
profound either way, especially
in view of the Budget offsets
mentioned previously; but
every responsible authority
will hope that Treasury-bill
finance will be kept to a mini-
mum so long as unemployment
does not reach serious propor-
tions. If unemployment in
proportion to the total work-
force is to be the indicator as
to when Treasury-bill finance
should or should not be used,
then that proportion has not
been signalled yet. And many
other things besides credit-
expansion and -contraction
have to be considered where
conditions force unemploy-
ment upon a community.
A.U.C. and' Charterhouse
A further move by Aus-
tralian United Corpora-
tion, Ltd. (B. 2/7/’5B), has been
the acquisition of the whole of
the £300,000 issued capital of
Charterhouse Aust. Pty., Ltd.,
a subsidiary floated by Charter-
house Finance Corp., of
London, in 1948. Part of the
consideration is the issue, at
an undisclosed premium, of
25,000 10s. f.-p. ords. in A.U.C.
For these shares buyers have
been offering 255. in Mel-
bourne.
In its 10 years of life,
Charterhoflse (Aust.) has
acquired some investment


£3
x/
*
¥r
A
A
F=e
S 3
C
E
SHAREHOLDERS'
FUNDS -
£11,500,000
IN REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
p.a...Oyrs.
.A.C. guarantees fixed quarterlyi
income, free of exchange.
Our Auditors, L. 6. Wallace &
Son, Chartered Accountants (Aus
tralia >, have certified that the
Tahgible Assets of the Group as
at 31st 1958, amounted to
£58,441,576.
For full details, see Prospectus: your copy available from Members
of Stock Exchanges, 703 Branches of A.N.Z. Bank Limited
or I.A.C. Branches.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LTD.
(Established 28 years )
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART • CANBERRA
• NEWCASTLE • WOLLONGONG • GEELONG
Underwriting Brokers:
Ian Potter & Co., Melbourne,
Canberra and Sydney
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders:
The Perpetual Executors & Trustees Association
of Australia Limited
shareholdings, mainly in pro-
prietary manufacturing cos.
Early in its career it backed th'e
ill-fated Canada Dry (Aust. and
N.Z.), Ltd., venture, which
subsequently went into liquida-
tion.
The new chairman of
Charterhouse (Aust.) will be
lan Potter.
Shares and the Budget
T ack of Budget concessions to
- L/ . industry, apart from
depreciation allowances to
primary producers, did not
upset any sharemarket calcula-
tions.
Share prices remained at
firm level ; most of the leaders
kept around their recent
record peaks, while many of
the second-liners recorded rises.
Popularity among these showed
a wide range: retailers, manu-
facturers of a variety of com-
modities, and finance - com-
panies.
Most mining stocks remain
at a comparatively depressed
level.
Fall in Farm Income
“Preliminary estimates put
A Australian farm income
for 1957-58 at £359 million,
compared with £535 million-in
the preceding year. This
represents a drop of £176
million, or about a third.
The income-figure is the net
figure. The gross value
of rural production during the
past year is set at £lll6 million,
down 13 p.c. Costs were slightly
higher, thus accentuating the
pinch in rural areas, and in-
dicating that any costs-inflation
that might be bearable in
secondary industries would be
quite out of place on the land.
Drought and lower prices
combined to hit rural industries
last year. Wool, wheat and
dairy-products were all affected.
The gross value of meat and
sugar produced was higher.
The outlook for 1958-59
begins unfavorably. Wool is
now below the average for the
past season, and, overseas, there
are large surpluses of wheat,
particularly in North America
and on the Continent.
The financial going in 1958-
59 threatens to be still diffi-
cult even if seasons are kinder.
A New Challenge
[From Canberra!
'Trade Minister John Mc-
Ewen has called on Aus-
tralian manufacturing industry
to take up the challenge and
opportunity of seeking new
export-markets for their ever-
increasing production of high-
quality consumer-goods.
He said a survey by his
department had shown that
there were now few bottlenecks
in industry, and capacity in.
most fields was adequate to
meet current demand and even
be sharply increased at short
notice.
The only limiting factor to
activity was local demand,
which was not increasing as
fast as the capacity of industry
to produce manufactured
goods.
“This situation offers a
challenge and an opportunity
to manufacturers to seek
export-markets,” McEwen said.
Mr. McEwen added, however,
that activity in manufacturing
industry was at a high level
and there was no reason why
it should not continue.
Production had clearly
moved up since his depart-
ment’s last survey in October,
1957, and basic industries had
continued to expand.
Industries producing motor-
vehicles and house ho 1 d
appliances all increased produc-
tion, while plant-and-equip-
ment production was main-
tained-at a steady rate.
McEwen said conditions in
the manufacturing industry
were now highly competitive
and for the first tinae in years
the list of price-reductions far
outweighed price increases.




SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Artbursts
Sydney Art
Sydney’s art-industry con-
tinues to flourish with unabated
fury, to the accompaniment of
explosions of joy from most
of the dailies at anything that
is abstract, and a deafening
silence for all that is not.
For thunder and lightning
the entries for the Helena
Rubenstein scholarship at the
National Gallery unquestion-
ably dominate the town. And
it is, indeed, with Frank
Hodgkinson’s bold and swirl-
ing shapes, Arthur Boyd's
wonderful bogies, Thomas
Gleghorn’s soaring architecture
and Clifton Pugh’s crows and
corpses, a most vivid and
striking exhibition. Frank
Hodgkinson won the scholar-
ship.
But thunder and lightning are
not the only qualities to look
for in art —otherwise Vermeer
would not exist —and, if there
is hardly a Vermeer to be
found, there is much to be
said for such new talents,
quietly manifesting themselves
at the Watercolor Institute at
David Jones’, as Ivor Hunt’s
extremely gentle pigs, the dark
tenements of J. Lindsay Sever
and—an unusual effect bravely
attempted Brian Stratton’s
“Mist in the Valley.”
Watercolors of assured
quality include John Elder-
shaw’s “Creek” (full of Aus-
tralian light and heat), Kenneth
Jack’s maplike “Greendale,”
Yvonne du Moulin’s subdued
“Brookvale,” Carl Plate’s
“Sleep,” Max Ragless’s “Long-
ford,” Ronald Steuart’s “Bush
at St. Ives,” Margaret Coen’s
“Bush Opal,” G. K. Town-
shend’s “Warriewood,” Dora
Jarret’s street-scenes and
Frederic Bates's “Winter Morn-
ing.”
Abstracts have another air-
ing at John Olsen’s show at the
Macquarie Galleries. His large
black shapes, however sincere
the impulse that has splashed
them onto the canvas, look thin
and facile, and he becomes pro-
gressively more interesting as
his colors quieten and his
designs assume some intricacy
to intrigue the mind —as in the
green giants of “Dylan’s
Country” or the smaller and
more involved “Painting No.
1” and “Painting No. 2.”
At Anthony Horderns the
Watson’s Bay Wharf Group has
an exhibition in aid of the
Polio Society a mixed and
generally poor show, reaching
a fair level in the crisp oil land-
scapes of Rhys Williams and
the watercolors of Molly Flax-
man and John Upton, and pro-
viding a few surprises in a
delightful watercolor of
mermaids by Norman Lindsay,
a couple of small Streetons, a
Hilder, an early Lance Solomon
of a thatched cottage, some Sid
Longs and Fred Leists and
quite a lovely little nocturne by
that almost-forgotten painter
Tristram. If the show had had
better publicity these little
coilector’s-pieces would surely
have been snapped-up.
Other shows opening this
week include the Society- of
Artists at the Education
Department gallery, sculptures
by lima Ballantyne-Russell and
Anton Murre at the Bisietta
and a “First Anniversary”
mixed exhibition at the Clune
Galleries, King's Cross.
♦> ♦>
Melbourne Art
A roomful of sculptures and
sculptural explanations by the
Victorian Sculptors’ Society at
the National Gallery, Mel-
bourne, is generally more im-
pressive in the explanations
than the sculptures.
In almost every case it is diffi-
cult to discover just where the
connection lies between
explanation and sculpture. It
is always dangerous to tinker
with definitions and then
search for examples—but this
appears to be the society’s
intention.
Those who aim at a sort of
quasi-realism, like Gordon
Meszaras (“Ascension”), Stan-
ley Hammond (“Morning”) and
Charles Miller (“Acrobats”),
are successful to a certain
degree, but all three fail to
relate their subject-matter to
their materials, all are stiff and
doll-like.
Of the abstractionists Anita
Aarons is perhaps the most
successful in her illusion of
frost and a cold sharp midday
sun in “Winter.”
Aileen Dent’s latest show of
portraits, flower- and fruit-
pieces, interior studies and
landscapes at Melbourne
Athenaeum, may seem, by
contrast with the sculptures,
academic. Yet Miss Dent has
an unusual amount of skill,
most notably revealed in her
more simple portraits and still-
life.
Stage and Music
A Play in Perth
I would like to announce the
opening of a new original
comedy, “The Yellow Swedish
Label” at the Capitol, Perth,
W.A., for a limited season
“Owing to the absence of my assistant, I'll have to do
it myself.”
commencing on August 26.
The play is written by
local author Desmond Warwick
Howard and presented by the
Capitol management —Michael
Drillien, manager in W.A. This
follows on a successful tryout
at Dardanup (W.A.) last April.
Leading parts are taken by
Margaret Ford and Ken
Goodlet, well-known Perth
players. Howard is himself an
actor. This is his first play
to be produced, but he has
several more up his sleeve,
and we hope “Label” will be
followed by others very shortly.
There is no need for me to
tell you that the production
of a new native play by a
commercial management is a
rare occasion—in this State I
think it is the first occasion.
The play deals with a Perth
phillumenist (matchbox - label
collector). It has aroused great
interest in phillumenistic circles
in England, being featured in at
least two collectors’ magazines
several times. This originally
started when Howard wrote
to The Bulletin’s Service
Dept, seeking details of the
hobby and the address of a Mr.
Pritchard, of Gloucester, was
•given him.
Colm O’Doherty
(Producer for “Yellow Swedish
Label” Co.)
<£♦ ■'Jf
“A Spring Song”
For its first venture into Aus-
tralian drama that brave little
company the Pocket Playhouse
(Sydney) chose Ray Mathew’s
“A Spring Song.”
The play is about loneliness:
not solitude but the essential
loneliness of people struggling
to come to terms with situations
created as much by others as
by themselves. A young school-
teacher-poet billeted on a small
farm becomes involved in the
lives of the family: bitter tyrant
father, crushed mother, and
three daughters frustrated by
the father’s lowering resistance
to change, and the mother’s
pitiable helplessness.
The theme has possibilities;
but the author, in his determi-
nation not to impose conven-
tional forms on material
about which he obviously feels
deeply, allows his dramatic
focal-point to shift confusingly
and his moods to become badly
mixed. Thus dramatic force is
dispersed and almost entirely
lost.
The characters seldom make
any real contact. They seem 10


- 1 \
N
fob"
ft
—a*.
Best
Mineral
Supplement
For all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over 65%
tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed minimum of
30% phosphoric acid and 40% lime. Because there
is little protein and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do
pay for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes the
really palatable and wholesome lick.
Tri-Cal-Os
STIAiuSED
BONE FLOUR
AS7. I>i. c «lc«
Vic- €ai ■ &L
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O. Box 3583,
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Box 590, NEWCASTLE
• G.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
Box 712 F, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Box 758 K,
BRISBANE • G.P.O. Box H5BB, PERTH
• G.P.O. Box 533, LAUNCESTON.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
think aloud—the slightly irra-
tional, obsessive thoughts we
have about each other and
which rarely survive an air-
ing—and to talk at, rather than
to, each other. This produces
many moments of careless,
Saroyan-like lyricism, but no
moments of intense dramatic
revelation.
Still, these are the faults of
a writer striving (perhaps too
much) for a personal, individual
statement, and are thus almost
commendable. They simply
demonstrate again how
dangerous it is for a playwright,
no matter how talented, to
venture outside the Aristotelian
concept of drama.
The company brought a lot
of talent to work on this
material, but it finally defeated
them, as it would any but the
greatest actors.
Norman McVicker’s produc-
tion was suitably dreamy and
contemplative. Valerie' Askew,
as the youngest daughter, eager
for love but obliged to deny
it to care for her faltering
parents, was adequate until the
last scene, where she failed to
convey the depths of the
sacrifice forced upon her.
Donald Smith was fresh and
shyly eager as the school-
teacher-poet, but seemed unsure
of his effects in the stronger
moments and tended to be over-
ingratiating.
As the mother, Maree Cole
was wholly satisfactory in
appearance and manner. John
Robson and Valda Hammick
gave basically good accounts
of, respectively, the father and
the dying eldest daughter, but
could not keep pace with the
play’s quick and subtle changes
of mood.
J. A.
♦J 4 ♦{* 4 1 4
“Lohengrin”
Stefan Haag’s Sydney pro-
duction of “Lohengrin" for the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust went
off very well.
This work needs a big stage
for the free movement of the
knights and nobles and ladies-
of-honor who have to crowd
it so often, and Frank Hinder’s
settings, ingeniously making use
of the same central circular
platform each time, made this
possible. The mechanical side,
too, was well contrived, with
cunningly placed lights on an
agitated backdrop giving the
effect of shimmering water, with
a swan, very swanlike, hitch-
lessly delivering Lohengrin to
the banks of the Scheldt to do
his knight-errantry. Costuming
was sumptuous.
Ronald Dowd sang the title-
role with good forward
delivery and, in the noble
“Narrative,” achieved some
good ringing notes. But he
should havev been skewered
first-up in the duel scene, so
lethargic was his sword-play.
Neil Easton, as his opponent
Telremund, sang strongly. Neil
Warren-Smith, whose splendid
bass is one of the most con-
sistent voices in the company,
was an authoritative and
dignified King Henri. As with
Dowd and Easton, his diction
was" clear.
Elsa of Brabant —who surely
began the legend of woman’s
insatiable curiosity—was taken
by Elizabeth West, who raised
a pleasant soprano ; Constance
Shacklock brought dark menace
to her mezzo-contralto to back-
up her Ortrud. But both of
them were short on word-
distinction. Choruses had
weight and discipline, the
Bridal Chorus being particu-
larly effective.
Karl Rankl obtained a fine-
drawn tone from his upper
strings to spin-out the Grail
motif delicately in the long
Overture ; the famous Prelude
to the Third Act had rich tone ;
but the Wedding March wasn’t
quite as stirring as it might
have been.
❖ ♦♦♦ <♦
Youth Concert
The fourth Youth Concert at
Melbourne Town Hall intro-
duced a contemporary com-
poser’s work and reintroduced
—for the third time—Rafael
Kubelik as conductor. It also
gave Australian pianist Gordon
Watson, usually the- executant
of modernistic works, a chance
to show his confidence in other
realms.
The first Australian per-
formance of Enrico Mainardi’s
“Music for Strings” led-off the
proceedings. It turned out to
be a work singularly devoid of
tune and musical progression,
but its three movements dis-
played the author’s ability to
weave patterns and textures
within the string section.
Mainardi is well known as a
fine ’cellist, which probably
explains his favoring of the
low’er and deeper sounds and
sonorities of the strings. The
conductor did his utmost, but
the music made little impres-
sion on the youth assembled.
Mozart’s 21st Piano Concerto
in C Major, a glorious summary
of Mozart's genius, aroused
them better. Here melody, pro-
gression, orchestration, mood,
a sense of the dramatic —as well
as the textures that, if searched
for, can be found in Mainardi’s
music—are included in exact
and beautiful proportions.
Despite the fast tempo
chosen for the first and last
movements the orchestra did
well, and Gordon Watson’s con-
tribution was a fine.combina-
tion of strength and delicacy.
In the Brahms symphony that
composer’s reflective and
thoughtful musical voice was
heard in a correct and
thoroughly traditional interpre-
tation —thanks to the con-
ductor.
Films
“Touch of Evil”
Orson Welles, always a
figure to be reckoned with in
the film world, directs as well
as acts the central role in this
story of an utterly ruthless,
megalomaniacal detective who,
to bolster a growing reputation
for getting convictions,
descends to “planting” evidence
to get them.
The atmosphere of ennui and
decay of the little U.S.-Mexican
border-town in which it is set
is well captured, and Welles
uses his cameras and night-
shadows to heighten the
tensions. He builds his final
climax powerfully.
The portrait he draws him-
self is a striking one: gross,
shrewd, inherently cruel,
slummocky, unshaven, almost
perpetually half-shot. He gets
strong support from Charlton
Heston, as the Mexican detec-
tive who finally brings him
down when his bride is framed
for a narcotics rap ; and from
two skilled character-rolers
Akim Tamiroff as a greasy, fat,
obsequious cafe-proprietor, and
Joseph Calleia as the detective-
sergeant who finally turns dog
on the “demon” to whom for
years he has been a cringing
yes-man.
Marlene Dietrich turns-in a
neat vignette- as a world-weary
and cynical pub-woman, and
Janet Leigh, as the bride who
is drugged and kidnapped, is
suitably hysterical.
Greater Union Theatres.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ •£►
“The Unholy Wife”
Diana Dors, whose prettiest
talent is her shape, flits through
this tale about a Wicked
Woman who tries to bump-off
her husband so that she can
share his wealth with her lover.
The plot has more holes than
a colander, the flashback tech-
nique used by director John
Farrow is crude, the pace
funereal. That fine actor Rod
Steiger does his best with the
role of the intended victim.
It's on Hoyts’ Circuit.
. *J4 *Jt
“Legend of the Lost”
No-hoper John Wayne, drift-
ing around the Sahara, agrees
to guide Rossano Brazzi
towards a lost city somewhere
out from Timbuctu. And who
should cast-up in the sandy
wastes, complete with perm,
and modified evening-dress, but
Sophia Loren!
At Sydney Plaza.


THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria under the “Companies Act 1890”) HEAD OFFICE; 335-339 Collins Street, Melbourne
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
1. The Board of Directors submits to the Stockholders the accom-
panying Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account for the year ended
80th June, 11)58, with Auditors’ Report.
2. The Net Profit amounts to £562,867 17 9
to which is added amount brought forward ~ 238,025 19 2
Making a total of .. £800,893 16 11
From this amount the Directors have made the following
appropriations, viz;—
To Reduction of Bank Premises .. £50,000 0 0
„ Interim Dividend on Preference
Stock at 2% paid February,
1958, in Australian Currency .. 42,347 0 0
„ Interim Dividend on Ordinary
Stock at 5% paid February,'
1955, in Australian Currency .. 205,293 8 0
297,640 8 0
leaving a Balance of .. £503,253 8 11
which it is proposed to apportion as follows: •
To Final Dividend on Preference Stock at 2% in
Australian Currency .. .. .. .. .. £42,347 0 0
„ Final Dividend on Ordinary Stock at 5% in
Australian Currency .. . . .. .. .. 205.293 8 0
„ carry forward to next year 255.613 0 11
£503,253 8 11
3. In the opinion of the Directors, the results of the year’s operations
as shown in the Profit and Loss Account have not been materially
affected by items of an abnormal character.
4. During the year, Branches have been opened at 409 St. Kilda Road,
Melbourne, and East Preston in Victoria; Casino and Cabramatta in New
South Wales and Mareeba in Queensland. The Receiving Offices at
Syndal in Victoria; Upper Mt. Gravatt in Queensland; Enfield and Hind-
marsh in South Australia and New Lynn in New Zealand have been
converted into Branches.
5. In accordance with the Articles of Association, two Directors retire
by rotation at this Meeting, viz., Mr. W. S. Reid and Mr. Normand Hill.
They are eligible for re-election and have given the necessary notice of
candidature.
6. The meeting will be required to elect two Auditors for the ensuing
twelve months.
The Transfer Books will be closed from 5 p.m. on 4th August, 1958,
until the 19th August, 1958, inclusive.
By Order of the Board,
H. F. CLARKE,
General Manager .
Melbourne, 24th July, 1958.
Balance Sheet of THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED as at 30th JUNE, 1958
(Expressed to the nearest £ in Australian Currency )
LIABILITIES
Authorised Capital— £ £
300,000 Preference Shares of £lO each .. 3,000.000
14,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10/- each .. 7,000.000
10.000.000
Issued and Fully Paid Capital—
-211,735 Preference Stock Units of £lO per
unit 2,117.350
8,211,736 Ordinary Stock Units of 10/- per
unit 4,105,868
Paid-up Capital 6,223.218
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the Bankl 3,610.000
Final Dividends proposed payable, August, 1958 247,640
Balance of Profit and Loss Account .. ... 255,613
Total Stockholders’ Funds .. .. .. .. .. .. 10.336,471
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other Liabilities, including
provisions for Taxation and Contingencies .. .. 211.686.574
Notes in Circulation .. .. .. .. .. .. 5.101
Balances due to Other Banks .. .. .. .. .. 18,270
Amount due to Subsidiary Company 100
' 222,046,516
Contingent Liabilities on Letters of Credit, Drafts, Guaran-
tees and Other Engagements 7.510,236
£229.556,752
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Australian and Reserve Bank of New Zea-
land Notes and Cash at Bankers
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks .. ~
Balances with and due from Other Banks
Money at Short Call in London .. .... ..
Treasury Bills—
Australian Government .. .. .. .. .. ..
Public Securities (at or under market value) —
Australian Government .. .. .. .. 19,541,215
Other Government .. 1,170,!K)3
Local and Semi-Governmental Authorities .. 448,198
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank of Australia ..
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit ..
Loans. Advances and Bills Discounted (after deducting Pro-
vision for Debts considered Bad or Doubtful)
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites (at cost, less amounts
written off)
Shares in wholly-owned Subsidiary Company (at cost).
(The Subsidiary Company has not traded at any time,
and has made neither Profit nor Loss; its only Asset
is a Deposit of £lOO with this Bank)
All Other Assets
Contingent Assets including Liabilities of Customers and
Others on Letters of Credit, Drafts, Guarantees, etc.,
as per contra.
£
14,550.825
7,513,508
‘750.162
4,312,500
1,500,000
21.160.316
29,348.000
15.623,199
94,758,510
119,794.079
5,674,537
100
1,819,290
222,046,516
7,510,236
£229,556.752
Profit & Loss Account of THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD. in respect of the year ended 30th June, 1958
(Expressed to the nearest £ in Australian Currency )
£
To Expenses Head Office. 759 Branches and Agencies
(including Directors' Fees £4,500) 6,133,674
„ Income, Land and Other Taxes .. .. .. .. 726,208
„ Balance, being Net Profit for the Year carried down .. 562.868
£7,422,750
To Amounts written off Bank Premises .. .. .. 50,000
„ Dividends—
Interim paid February, 1958 '.. .. 247,641
Final, proposed payable August, 195 S .. 247.640
495.281
„ Balance carried forward .. .. 255,613
£800.894
■c
By Discount and interest earned, net Exchange, Commis-
sions and Other Income after deducting Interest Paid
and Accrued on Deposits, Rebate on Bills Current at
balance date and Appropriations to the credit.of Con-
tingencies Accounts (out of which Accounts provision
for all Bad and Doubtful Debts has been made) .. 7,422,750
£7.422,750
By Net Balance brought forward 238,020
„ Net Profit for the Year v 562,808
£800.894
By Balance £255,613
I, HENRY FOLLETT CLARKE, General Manager of THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED, do solemnly and sincerely
declare that the Reserve Fund and accumulated profits are used in the business, and that the accompanying Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss
Account of the Bank are. to the best of my knowledge and belief, true in every particular.
Names, addresses and occupations of the persons who are the Directors of the Company at the date of the Statement: WILLIAM SYDNEY
REID, Esq., Manufacturer, Melbourne: VICTOR YULE KIMPTON, Esq., Flour Miller, Melbourne; COLIN FORSYTH MEARES, Esq., Solicitor,
Melbourne; NORMAND HILL, Esq., Wool Broker, Melbourne: FRANCIS SEYMOUR VINE, Esq., C.M.G., Manufacturer, Melbourne.
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the
Parliament of Victoria rendering persons making a false declaration, punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury.
DECLARED at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 24th day of July, One thousand nine hundred and fifty-eight.
Before* me H TT SMTTTT A Commissioner for taking Declarations and a-rtti?
rseiore me ix. ±i. oiuun. Affidavits under the “Evidence Act 1928 ” 1. ULAKIvE.
We. VICTOR YULE KIMPTON and COLIN FORSYTH MEARES. of Melbourne, being Directors of THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUS :
TRALIA LIMITED, do hereby certify that in our opinion the foregoing Balance Sheet is true and correct, and is drawn up so as to exhibit fi
true and correct view of the state of the Company's affairs, and that the Profit and Loss Account exhibits a true and correct view of the
results of the business of the Company for the year.
Dated at Melbourne, this 24th day of July, 1958. On behalf of the Board, V. YU KIMPTON, COLIN F. MEARES.
AUDITORS* REPORT TO THE STOCKHOLDERS OF THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
We have examined the foregoing Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account with the books and records at the Head Office, together with
audited statements received from Messrs. Jackson. Pixley & Co., relating to the London branches, and returns certified by Managers and Account-
ants, as regards all branches in Australia and New Zealand, none of which was visited by us.
In our opinion, the Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account are properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state
of the Company's affairs as at 30th June, 1958, and of the results of the business of the Company for the l’ear ended on that date, according to
the best of our information and the explanations given to us and as shown by the books and records of the Company at its Head Office and
the statements and returns received from the branches.
We have received every assistance from Officers of the Bank and have obtained all the information and explanations we have required.
Melbourne, 24th July, 1958.
GLASS \
C' liartere d Accountants (Australia).


Experienced Management of Agricultural and Pastoral Properties
©9
62
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS
(•(•rporaUd in Victoria >■ 1871
TR55.34
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £972,812.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.©., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones:
J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.- W. E M.
Campbell; T. L. Webb.
P a B v (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8..
K. C M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan ©. Potter.
The Trustees Executors & Agency
' COMPANY LTD.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trusteo
Company, has a wide association with the administration of rural properties.
It provides efficient management, safeguards the interests of dependents,
and provides ample security for the performance of Trusts at a fixed and
moderate cost.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company a 6 your Executor either alone or
jointly with some trusted felative or friend.
A Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
A Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Custom Credit Corporation, Ltd.
TJefore electioneering politicians become
** too vociferous on the subject of hire-
purchase profits, it would be well to
remember that h.-p. earnings should be
viewed against the total h.-p. debt, rather
than the share-capital of the cos. con-
cerned, when estimating the extent of
any saving available to individual hirers
as a result of reductions in hiring-
charges.
This in itself is, of course, no justifica-
tion for excessively high profits, but,
while there is undeniably a comfortable
margin in h.-p. financing generally, as
far as the leading h.-p. financiers are
concerned, the scope for cuts in hiring-
charges is by no means as wide as. that
suggested by some critics. At the same
time, there may well be room for modi-
fications to the “flat-rate” method of
calculating h.-p. interest-charges and,
perhaps, for some trimming of the
indirect profits arising from insurance
business and the advance payment of
instalments.
Probably the chief factor in keeping-
up h.-p. charges is the high cost of
borrowing from the public.
One of the big three Australian h.-p.
financiers, Custom Credit Corp., Ltd.,
finished the year to June 30 last with
outstandings and advances, less income
yet to mature, of £38.3 million, the
before-tax earnings of the co. and its
insurance subsidiary adding-up to
£1,612,658, or 4.2 p.c. on net outstand-
ings, etc. After the Tax Commissioner
had claimed his share of the profit the
ratio was cut to approximately 2} p.c.,
a relatively low proportion, considering
the inclusion of insurance-winnings and
the “dear”-money aspect of Government
financial policies.
The first of the large finance-houses
to formalise its ties with a trading-bank,
Custom Credit got under way in 1953,
under the able and imaginative guidance
of chairman and managing-director lan
Jacoby, the National Bank of Australasia
coming into the business a few months
after formation with a 40 p.c. share-
interest.
Primarily concerned with financing the
purchase of consumer-durables, such as
motor-vehicles, furniture, TV-receivers
and domestic appliances, the co. extended
its activities during the 1957 term to
cover home-building, home-purchase and
the migration to Australia of sponsored
migrants.
Aided by the great upsurge in demand
for consumer-credit, Custom Credit has
bounded along at a startling rate over
the last five years, h.-p. and other out-
standings leaping from £3.4 million to
£21.6 million in the three years to 1956
and to £42.6 million by the end of last
term. (At May 31 last the total h.-p.
debt to finance-houses, on retail transac-
tions only, was estimated at £290.1
million compared with £233.6 million 12
months earlier and £88.7 million at June
30, 1953.)
Most of the funds used in the business
come from the issue of first-mortgage
debenture-stock or registered unsecured
notes, both classes of paper carrying
attractive rates of interest. However,
shareholders have been given plenty of
opportunities to enlarge their holdings,
and par-issues during the 1955 term
raised paid capital from £500,000 to
£3,000,000, a two-for-three issue, com-
pleted last month, taking the total on
the share-register to £5,000,000. Breaking
the ice with a 10 p.c. distribution in
1954, the co. raised the div.-rate to the
current 15 p.c. level in the following
year.
Total outstandings rose by £12.5
million last term to_ £42.6 million, of
which approximately £8 million related
to advances on which interest is raised
annually. Income yet to mature (up £1
million at £4.3 million) was calculated
on the basis of an adequate I2j p.c,
“on all contracts in which the charges
are added at the inception” and thus form
part of the outstanding debt.
Balance-sheet figures for the past three
years reveal the remarkable rate of
growth enjoyed by the co.:
1956 19.37 19:38
Paid capital £3,000,000 £3,000,000 £3,000,000
Share applications ' 201,027
Reserves .. 430,967 761,874 1,271,162
Debentures,
notes . . 16,633,948 22,560,481 33,145,780
Hue to subsid. 1.479,578 2,019,200 2,598,200
Unearned income 2,310,255 3,237,979 4,322,539
Sundry creditors 353,645 361,873 703,287
Tax provision 433,300 ' 547,425 486,250
Final div. . . 225,000 225,000 225,000
£24,866,693 £32.713,832 £45,953,245
Office, equipment 92,269 117,333 160,822
Shares subsid. 2-jO,OOO 250,000 500,800
H.-p. contracts,
etc- .. 21,634,904 30,087,304 42,692,650
Sundry debtors 52,071 7,151 26,635
Cash, etc. .. 2,837,449 2,252,044 2,572,338
£24,866,693 £32,713,832 £45,953,243
A levelling-out in demand for h.-p.
facilities which brought a paring-down
of the charges involved ini the purchase
of new motor-vehicles and a temporary
reduction in the interest-rates offered on
long-term debentures, gave way, last!
term, to another burst of h.-p. activity,
the mounting sales of TV-receivers and
a stronger market for new cars sending
finance cos. out in search of additional
funds. Custom Credit raised a further
£10.5 million on debentures and notes
during the year, and at balance-dat©
(June 30) outside borrowings totalled
£33.1 million, £14.2 million of this amount
falling due for repayment within a year.
As might be expected from the finan-
cial gearing, the earning-rate on share-
capital has been more than satisfactory,
the parent co.’s net profit representing
30.6 p.c. on paid capital last term, to give
an average rate since formation of
26.6 p.c.
Gross income for the year to June 30
last climbed by £1,195,678 to £4,859,780
and, although operating - expenses
go’obled-up an extra £1,108,066, net profit
advanced by £137,644 to £918,551, a
smaller tax-provision (down £56,757 at


£486,250) contributing to the improved
showing:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1954 . 53,457 10 p.c. - 21,458 31,999 31,999
Prelim, exes, written off, £6982 . . 25,017
1955 ..441,900 15 p.c. = 218,750 223,150 248,167
1956 ..632,800 15' „ „ 450,000 182,800 430,967
1957 ..780,907 15 „ „ 450,000 330,907 761,874
Tax overprovided, £40,737 .. .. 802,611
1958 . .918,5,(1 15 p.c. = 450,000 408,551 1,271,102
Earnings of the wholly-owned National
and General Insurance Co., Ltd., are
included in the table only to the extent
of the £125,000 div. received by the
parent, the three-year-old insurance off-
shoot really getting into its stride with
a £198,927 net profit, £194,048 above the
previous term’s effort.
The consolidated profit (£992,478) was
equal to 19.8 p.c. on the £5,000,000 share-
capital now employed by the co., and the
directors “confidently anticipate” the
payment of another 15 p.c. div. in the
current term. On this basis the f.-p. ss.
ords. would return £6 6s. 9d. p.c. at 11s.
10d., the parent’s accounts showing a net
tangible cover of almost 6s. 4d. a share,
including the scrip issued last month.
The maintenance of a high level of
employment is essential for the continued
success of h.-p. financiers, and repercus-
sions flowing from the fall in export-
income could adversely affect earnings.
But, on present indications, the imme-
diate outlook is for further increases in
the volume and value of h.-p. business,
the large-scale operators, on the whole,
having less to fear from amendments
to h.-p. legislation than some of their
smaller competitors.
Tecnico, Ltd.
A mighty leap in the earnings of
Tecnico, Ltd., last term —the extent
of which must have surprised even the
most optimistic of the co.’s shareholders
- —enabled the Sydney-based TV-manu-
facturer to clean-up 3| years’ arrears of
pref. divs., hand-out 5 p.c. on the ords.,
and send a tidy £339,251 (almost 47 p.c.
on ord. capital) to reserves. Back in
the picture after a lapse of nearly five
years, ord. shareholders can thank the
boom in sales of TV-receivers and the
financial and technical support of the
English parent co., Pye, Ltd., for the vast
improvement in their position over the
past three years.
The world-wide Pye organisation
acquired a major shareholding in Tecnico
in October, 1955, the 34-year-old Aus-
tralian co. running-up a loss of £111,840
in the 1955 term after its share of the
highly - competitive domestic - appliance
market had dwindled to uneconomic pro-
portions. Advances from Pye eased a
tight financial position, and, with the
aid of the English co.’s long experience
in the manufacture of TV-equipment,
Tecnico was rehabilitated in time to
clamber aboard the TV bandwagon, a
loss of £50,770 in the 1956 term being
followed by a £113,725 profit for the
nine months to March, 1957.
Apart from TV-receivers, Tecnico
turns out (under the Pye-Tecnico label)
radios, floor-polishers, vacuum-cleaners,
powered lawnmowers, tape-recorders and
other domestic and electrical appliances,
while the 51-p.c.-owned Bendix-Tecnico
Pty. last term started production of
automotive carburettors and is now
supplying all of General Motors-Holden’s
carburettor requirements. With the popu-
larity of Holden vehicles showing no
signs of waning, this venture should
prove a particularly handy sideline.
Bendix-Tecnico (in which Bendix
Aviation Corp. of U.S.A. is the only
other shareholder) is also engaged in the
servicing, manufacture and import of
aviation and automotive accessories.
Other subsidiaries manufacture water-
pumps, electric motors and generators
(F. W.. Davey and Co., Ltd.) and handle
a wide range of electronic and electrical
equipment (Tecnico Electronics Pty.).
Pye, which originally acquired its
share-interest in Tecnico by the purchase
of ords., at par, from existing share-
holders, took-up a further 75,000 £1
ords. last term, paid capital rising to
£910,500. There are 40,000 £1 7f p.c.
prefs. and 145,000 £1 5 p.c. prefs.
Group-turnover for the year to March
31 isn’t disclosed, but the output of the
television and radio divisions was
“increased considerably,” the following
table giving some indication of the scale,
on which TV-manufacturers, as a whole,
have expanded production over the past
18 months:
Australian Production Of TV-receivers.*
Six months to— Units.
November, 1956 .. .. 38,600
May, 1957 73.100
November, 1957 .. .. 129,400
May, 1958 . . . . . . 139,600
* Source: Commonwealth Bureau oi
Census and Statistics.
A record 35,320 TV-receivers were
turned out by Australian manufacturers
last May, compared with the 18,790 sets
produced in May, 1957.
The earnings of Tecnico (and, it could
safely be assumed, other major TV-
manufacturers) haven’t lagged behind
production, and the consolidated accounts
of Tecnico and its subsidiaries show last
term's net profit at £423,844 —the best
showing by the co. to date by far. The
profit was written after making unstated
provision for taxation, the amount pro-
vided being calculated, presumably, after
allowing for the parent co.'s £149,681 of
accumulated losses: —.
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends— To Re- Re-
June 30, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.*
7i & 5 p.c.
£ £,£,£>
1952.. 47,421 10.250 3jp.c.-23,625 13,546 131,587
Less subsidiary’s reserves, £2855 ... 128,732
Special amortisation provision, £42,500 86.232
1953.. 5,171 10.250 Nil 81,153
Tax overprovided, £5715 .. .. 86,868
1954.. 13,688 Nil Nil 13,688 100,556
Tax overprovided, £155 .. •• 100,711
Loss. Deficit.
1955.. 111,840 Nil Nil 11.129
Tax overprovided, £1294 .. .. 9,835
1956.. 50,770 Nil Nil 60,605
March,
Adjustment minority interest, sub-
sidiarv, £14,223 74.82 S
Profit. Reserves.*
1957 f. 113,i25 Nil Nil 113,725 38,897
1958.. 423,844 48*0881 5p.c.=35,905 339,251 378,148
* Subject to intangibles, £78,643 at 31/3/’SB.
t Nine months only. J Includes arrears.
The production of carburettors by
Bendix-Tecnico began too late to affect
last term’s results, and practically all of
the impressive group profit came from
the parent, the three offshoots, all of
which traded profitably, returning a net
£5803, as against £9154 in the preceding
nine-month term, when consolidated
earnings were reckoned at £113,725.
After deducting one year’s pref. divs.,
group earnings equalled 57 p.c. on ord.
capital (21.4 p.c. in 1957), pref. arrears
and the current pref. and (5 p.c.) ord.
divs. claiming only 20 p.c. of the
£423,844 profit.
Finances have been knocked into
reasonably good shape over the past
couple of years, and although a net
£108,699 was put into fixed assets last
term, w'orking-capital rose by £224,740
to £756,871, while outside liabilities were
reduced by £331,174:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref £185,000 £185,000 £155,000
Ord 650,500 650,500 725,500
Reserves .. 38,897 378,148
Outside interests.. 130,242 181.904 225,130
Loan .. .. 50,000 124,038
Overdraft .. 489,094 586,551 159,405
Creditors .. 363,007 901,545 t . . lft
Tax provision .. 18,470 14,855 j ’ rfD ’
Final div. ..
£1,886,313 £2,683.290 £2,594,186
Land, buildings.. 224,824 233,176 281,321
Plant, etc. .. 356,971 336,389 396,943
Stock .. .. 862,662 1,351,807 1,291,906
Debtors .. .. 290,936 679,127 843,444
Cash .. .. 11,672 4,148 1,929
Intangibles .. 78,643 78,643 78,643
Deficit .. .. 60,605
£1,886,313 £2,683,290 £2,894,186
“Closely controlled” over the term, stocks
were cut by £59,901, book-debts increas-
ing, with the higher turnover, by
£164,317.
With the markets for TV-receivers in
N.S.W. and Victoria far from saturation-
point and plans well advanced for the
commencement of transmissions in other
States, the demand for TV-sets is unlikely
to weaken in the near future, the Depart-
ment of Trade, in its half-yearly survey
of manufacturing-industries, suggesting
possible sales of 250,000 sets in 1958 and
300,000 sets in 1959.
The publication of Tecnico’s earnings
sent bids for the co.’s f.-p. £1 ords. from
around 255. to almost 425., the scrip
selling last week at 38s. At this price the
return from a 10 p.c. div. (and the board
could hardly consider less if profits are
anywhere near last term’s) would be
£5 ss. 3d. p.c., a 15 p.c. distribution
lifting the yield to £7 17s. lid. Con-
solidated accounts give the ords. a net
tangible backing of 28s. 3d.
Total Oil Products (Australia), Ltd.
With upwards of a third of paid capital
seeped away into development,
Total in its short but lively career has
shown that not a little financial alchemy
is needed to transmute petroleum-imports
into dividend-cheques, where it, comes to
wresting even a tithe of the market from
the established oil-colossi —and the
modest initial objective envisaged the
capture of no more than 1| p.c. of the
total Australian turnover of petroleum
products.
The venture is supported by some
pretty big artillery, and is capable of
standing the-present attrition indefinitely.
However, it is * conjectural just how the


Australian shareholding will fare in the
last analysis.
This newest aspirant to the petrol-
importing and -distributing set-up was
cradled by Oscar L. Josephson, who had
already served a long apprenticeship with
Ampol, being closely associated with
that organisation’s foundation and
development. Originally registered under
the style of United Petroleum, Ltd., in
January, 1954, and subsequently as
Anglo-United Petroleum, Ltd., Total took
on its present title in 1957 to accord
with its change of associates.
At the outset a tie-up was projected
with Capital Oil Co. of California, but
the supply-contract was cancelled in
favor of a more advantageous arrange-
ment, with Compagnie Frangaise des
Petroles, the massive French oil-concern
whose “Total” bowsers form such an
integral part of the European landscape.
C.F.P. is perhaps the largest of the
independent oil-producers in the world —
independent in the sense that it is not
tied financially to the apron-strings of
the Anglo- American-Dutch combines.
The biggest shareholder, is, in fact, the
French Government itself, which owns
35 p.c. of a share-capital totalling Fr.
34,820,260,128 —the French tend to reckon
capital in terms of light-years, but this
equals about £A37 million, capitalising
on the Parisian Bourse at several times
this value.
Outstanding among C.RP.’s myriad
interests are a 23| p.c. share-interest in
the Iraq Petroleum Co. Ltd., Basrah
Petroleum Co., Ltd., Mosul Petroleum Co.,
Ltd., and Qatar Petroleum Co., Ltd.,; a
33| p.c. interest in Abu Dhabi Marine
Areas, Ltd., and Dubai Marine Areas,
Ltd.,; and 6 p.c. share in Iranian Oil
Participants, Ltd. —the consortium of oil-
companies which now handles the out-
put of Abadan under agreement with the
Iranian Government. Besides these there
are majority interests in the big French
refining co., Compagnie Franfaise de
Raffinage, and an Italian refinery, Societa
per Azioni Tecnico-Industriale. A sub-
sidiary, Compagnie Navale des Petroles,
operates a fleet of 300,000 d.w. tons com-
prising 11 tankers. There are other
refining and distributing interests through-
out the world, too numerous to mention,
and oil concessions and exploration-rights
in the Sahara and Canada.
Total’s initial capital of £304,000 in
ss. ords., raised in 1954 by a public issue
at par, was supplemented the following
year by C.F.P.’s taking-up at par of
1,200,000 shares, bringing paid capital to
£604,000. Last year this figure was
doubled by a one-for-one cash issue,
underwritten by C.F.P., which sub-
sequently took-up most of the new scrip
in the face of lukewarm public support,
thus becoming a majority shareholder.
The balance-sheet shows a weighty out-
side debt in proportion to subscribed
capital, the unsecured loan-funds on easy
terms being one of the advantages of the
French tie-up. The drawback, from Aus-
tralian investors’ viewpoint, is that a sub-
stantial- part of these borrowings is likely
to be converted into equity-capital in the
near future:
June, December, December,
1956. 1956. 1957.
' Paid capital .. £603,480 £1,207,180 £1,208,000
Loans (secured) . . 411,475 421,557
Loans (unsecured) 749,393 892,393 1,928,272
Overdraft . . 416,430 54,520 210,063
Creditors .. 77,745 352,515 83,623
£2,258,523 £2,928,165 £3,429,958
Freeholds .. 467,142 658,517 1,009,791
Leaseholds . . 6,149 18,879 65,116
Plant . . . . 833,632 843,689 891,341
Under construction 32,283 129,738
Stocks .. .. 536,394 609.017 589,341
Debtors .. .. 112,204 168,743 214,015
Cash .. .. 8,178 203,352 4,083
Intangibles .. 118,958 119,060 119,060
Deficit .. .. 175,866 274,625 407,473
£2,258,523 £2,928,165 £3,429,958
Counter-moves by the opposition have
been mainly directed toward one-brand
service-stations, and the reduced numbers
of independents available for contract
has forced a reorientation toward the
acquisition of marketing-outlets, the “key
factor,” reflected in the big increase in
freeholds and leaseholds over the year ;
all told, fixed assets were up by £542,618.
Current assets were lighter by £129,738,
approximately the year’s loss, and the
new expansion was financed by a further
loan of £614,322 from the de facto parent.
Originally the site chosen for base
operations was at the old Balmain
Colliery, Port Jackson (N.S.W.), but
subsequently the terminal was located
at the Sydney suburb of Botany,
with direct access to the tanker-
berth at Botany Bay per medium
of a three-mile pipeline. Tank-
capacity is about 10-million gallons, and
the cost of the original project was in the
vicinity of £l-million.
Two-and-a-half years of operations, to
December 31 last, have thrown-up the
following trading losses, after charging
depreciation:
Loss. Depreciation. Deficit.
£ £ £
June 30. 1956 .. 175,866 '34,814 175,866
December 31, 1956. . 98,759* 33,660 274,625
December 31, 1957.. 132,848 86,891 407,473
* Six months only.
The rate of loss, which is not, in the
opinion of the now predominantly French
directorate, abnormal under the circum-
stances, seems to be choking-off rapidly,
and the next year or two should see the
turn of the tide. To help matters along,
in June of the current year there was a
switch from one-grade fuel to standard
and premium petrols in conformity with
current trends.
On the local ’Change, the f.-p. ss. shares
are discounted at 3s. lOd. Net tangibles
are now down to 2s. lOd.
t
Dennys, Lascelles, Ltd. (Geelong)
T ast season’s sharp drop in wool values
shows-up in the accounts of Dennys,
Lascelles, Ltd., as a 27.8 p.c. fall in net
profit, the Victorian woolbroker and
stock-and-station agent cutting the annual
distribution from \l\ p.c. to a comfort-
ably covered 15 p.c. to accord with the
lower earnings.
The co., which carries on a wool-
broking-business established in 1857,
handles a large proportion of high-class
wools, selling around 9 p.c. of the total
Victorian wool-clip. Headquarters are
at Geelong and there are 37 branches
and 33 “special agencies” spread through-
out Victoria and the southern Riverina.
Only moderately successful in pre-
war years, Dennys, Lascelles has given
an excellent account of itself under the
generally favorable conditions prevailing
for most of the last decade, net earnings
during this period averaging 26.6 p.c.
on a share-capital increased in 1950 by
a three-for-10 issue (at a 50 p.c. premium)
and in 1955 by a two-for-five issue at
par. The £546,000 paid capital, all in
f.-p. £1 ords., is supported by £612,450
, of reserves (as against £178,877 at the
end of the 1948 term), intangibles appear-
ing in the accounts at £83,428.
During the year to June 30 last the
co. received an additional 1390 bales
of wool into store, but, at 119,603 bales,
sales were down 2582 bales on the record
figure achieved in the preceding term, the
average price paid for all greasy wool
sold at Victorian sales- tumbling from
79.87 d. per lb., in the 1957 season, to
63.82 d. per lb. A marked decrease in
the average value of sheep sold during
the year “greatly” reduced the return
from livestock sales, and there was a small
slip in the value of land sales, gross
earnings from all sources shrinking by
£73,536 to £861,114.
Expenses claimed an extra £32,585 of
the smaller income, and, after providing
£31,283 (down £3767) for depreciation,
pre-tax earnings were £100,354 (oyer
34 p.c.) below those of the previous term,
a substantially reduced provision for
taxation (down £54,500 at £72,000) limit-
ing the fall in net profit to £45,854: —-
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Written back to investments, £lOOO 336,062
1953 . . 100,490 15 p.c. = 58,500 41,990 378,052
Profit sale assets, etc., £10,152 .. 388,204
Tax overprovision, £22,256 .. .. 410,460
To staff fund, etc., £19,433 .. .. 391,027
W/off premises, £6G,000 .. .. 325,027
1954 . . 132,617 20 p.c. = 78,000 54,617 379,644
Profit sale assets, etc., £7593 .. 387,237
Tax overprovided, £420 .. .. 387,657
Unexplained addition, £415 .. .. 388,072
1955 . . 147,953 87,750 60,203 448,275
Profit sale assets, £4409 .. .. 452,684
Depreciation bonds, £1406 .. .. 451,278
Staff fund. £2OOO 449,278
Tax overprovided, £lOB2 .. .. 450,360
1956 .. 132,644 16 p.c. = 87,360 45,284 495,644
Profit sale assets, £3610 .. .. 499,254
Tax overprovided, £6OB .. .. 499,862
Written-back investments, £906 .. 500,768
Accrued long-service leave, £14,236.. 486,532
1957 .. 164,733 17}p.c.= 95,560 69,183 555,715
Profit sale assets, £9554 .. .. 565,269
Tax overprovided, £8983 .. .. 574,252
Written-back investments, £1219 .. 575,471
1958 .. 118,879 15 p.c. = 31,900 36,979 612,450
* Subject to intangibles, £83,428 at 30/6/’5B.
At £118,879 the earnings equalled
21.7 p.c. on paid capital, compared with
3P.1 p.c. in 1957, the 15 p.c. div. being
covered with £36,979 to spare.
The decline in wool prices brought
about a contraction in book-debts (down
£144,649) and creditors (down £108,403)
without disturbing, unduly, the solid
financial structure:
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £546,000 £546,000 £546,000
Reserves .. .. 495,644 555,715 612,450
Overdraft .. 51,312
Creditors, etc. .. 231,308 213,081 104,678
Staff funds .. 46,320 59,516 65,243
Tax provision .. 98,000 126,500 72,000
Final div. .. 60,060 68,250 54,600
£1,477,332 £1,569,062 £1,506,283
Freeholds .. .. 386,507 401,722 483,825
Plant, etc. .. 82,642 81,605 81,522
Stock .. .. 36,087 42,410 102.006"
Debtors .. .. 702,998 674,047 529,398
Cash, etc. .. 185,670 285,850 226,104
Goodwill .. .. 83,428 83,428 83,428
£1,477,332 £1,569,062 £1,506,283
Erection of a new branch-office at


m
m
£50.000
ISSUE Ol
FIRST MORTGAGE
ISTiTßftffl
EACH £lOO DEBENTURE ISi
BACKED BY £4lO IN ASSETS
Application forms and Prospectus are
obtainable from any branch of the
Bank of N.S.W., any member of the
Sydney or Newcastle Stock Exchanges,
or the office of the Company at Ist
Floor, Park House, 15 Park St., Sydney,
or Ist Floor, Morton House. 5 Union
Street. Newcastle West.
UNDERWRITERS:
F. S. Scorer & Co.
T. & G. Building,
Hunter St., Newcastle
BANKERS TO ISSUE:
Bank of N.S.W.
All Branches
TRUSTEES:
Bankers and Traders
Insurance Co. Ltd.
131-133 Pitt Street,
Sydney
□
□
5 TO 10
YEARS
4 YEARS
3 YEARS
2 YEARS
1 YEAR
6 MTHS
Si
B|i
8 %
I wMA
su
MBMIOXS
to
(«Hl
Kf
m
15 PARK,ST., SYDNEY of 5 UNION ST.,
NEWCASTLE WEST v
8.4
PHONES: -
• Sydney BM 6945
•' (4 lines).
Newcastle B 4601
. (8 lines)
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO LINDSAY LEON BECK, formerly
of 12 Belmore Avenue Belmore-
TAKE NOTICE that BETTY IRENE
BECK has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2670 of 1958 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for 3 years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 17th
day of October 1958 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from HUNT & HUNT, Solicitors, of
15 Bligh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRID6E PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
k Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
Horsham (Vic.) was completed
during the year, a property
bought in Geelong for future
use as a wool-store and new
office-premises obtained for the
Melbourne branch, a net
£82,103 going into freeholds
over the year. To help finance
this outlay and a sharp and
unexplained increase in stocks
(up £59,596), the co. went to
the bank for £51,312 and drew
on holdings of cash, etc., for
£59,746.
Preliminary forecasts indicate
a further reduction in the
quantity of wool available for
sale during the coming selling-
season, and, at this stage, there
appears to be little likelihood
of an early strengthening in
demand for the staple. The
first sales of the season will
be at Brisbane on the 25th of
this month.
Based on conservative book-
values (freeholds are said to be
worth approximately twice the
cost-Zcss-depreciation figure at
which they appear in the
balance - sheet), Dennys,
Lascelles’s f.-p. £1 ords. have
a net tangible asset backing of
395. 5d., the scrip, at 50s. cum.
div. giving an effective return of
£6 ss. p.c. from a 15 p.c.
distribution.
O.D.E.
/~\il Drilling and Explora-
tion, Ltd., has discon-
tinued its one-fifth interest in
the Maryborough Basin con-
cession held by the Lucky
Strike Drilling Co. However,
the co. will retain its interests in
the South-Moreton anticline
concessions ; continued partici-
pation in those areas depending
on results of a recently com-
pleted magnetometer survey.
A marine sedimentary basin
“in another State” is at present
being investigated, and, if
reports are favorable, leases will
be applied for and an applica-
tion made to the Common-
wealth Government for a sub-
sidy to drill a test-well. The
co. reports that it has ample
funds for such an undertaking,
“but may seek an overseas
partner.”
Western Titanium, N.L.
A sharp reduction in the out-
put of ilmenite—“in keep-
ing with market demands” —
is reported by Western
Titanium, N.L., for the quarter
ended July 31 last, 6800 tons
of the titanium-oxide being pro-
duced, compared with a
quarterly average of 19,750
tons last term.
The output of secondary
minerals was ‘maintained by
drawing on the stockpile
accumulated prior to installa-
tion of the secondary treatment-
plant, and 1285 tons zircon, 135
tons rutile, 128 tons monazite
and 65 tons leucoxene were
produced.
The Westralian Co. shipped
30,059 tons of ilmenite during
the six months to July 31.
The Geology of Timor
[From L. Owen]
Tt is now apparent, as was
A indicated some months ago
after a change in the technical
staff, that Timor Oil, Ltd., will
make a lengthy and detailed
survey of the geology of
Portuguese Timor before any
more major drilling is under-
taken. This, doubtless, results
from the recognition of the
highly complex nature of the
geological structure.
Although reference was made
to the existence of complex
structures in the prospectus
issued by the company in
November, 1956, the caution
which such reference should
have engendered was nullified
by a published statement made
later by one of the company’s
advisers that “known structures
in Timor are less complex than
anticipated.”
la commenting on that
statement in these pages (B.
21/8/’57), I expressed the
opinion that the Timor struc-
ture “is patently so complex
that any serious evaluation of
the prospects of commercial
oil-production there will
require several years of inten-
sive study.”
Few will now claim that the
siting of the Aliambata well was
not premature. The prospect of
a geological survey—which is
now being carried out in the
field —in the necessary detail
should be welcomed, although
it may be far less spectacular
than slap-dash drilling in
seepage areas.
At the risk of being con-
sidered a bore through repeti-
tion, I would again emphasise
that the solution of structure is
only one of the operative
factors in a successful hunt for
commercial petroleum. In
seepage areas, in particular, the
several problems involved in
the search require a chemical
as well as a structural-geology
approach not only in Timor
(B. 10/4/’57) but in other parts
of Australasia and the rest
of the world.
And both the geological and
the chemical evidence must be
interpreted in the light of the
individual geological history of
the region.


li
wk
ari/ellouS
14 carat Ljo
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
fitted with a genuine
14 carat gold nib.
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
fully guaranteed.
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
excellent value.
Ask your Retailer
he knows.
The No. 85L
42 7 6
The Conway Stewart
No. 15 at 29/6
No. 12 at 35/-
No. 76 at 60/-
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD.. LONDON
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
A dozen first-nights in two
weeks is an unusually
heavy concentration for mid-
summer. This is clear evidence
of how theatre-going habits
have changed. The well-to-do,
whose patronage once governed
the opening-dates, are no
longer an out-of-town elite,
and long, bright summer even-
ings (if indeed they exist) are
no more a deterrent to theatre-
managers.
It is, perhaps, significant that
nearly all the new shows are
bread-and-butter affairs, involv-
ing little intellectual effort and
intended for the large “passing-
trade” of visiting holiday-
makers.
The market for thrillers,
shockers and whodunits must
be the steadiest in show-busi-
ness, for there are at least seven,
and all are doing well, from
the long-running ‘The Mouse-
trap” to the two-character
“Double Cross,” in which a
couple of adventurers, each
believing the other to be
wealthy, play at lovey-doveys
on honeymoon while scheming
for murder and a getaway. Two
others, Ronald Jeans’s “Three-
way Switch” and Australian
Alec Coppel’s “The Joshua
Tree,” both depend upon a life-
insurance swindle; and a
favorite of 30 years ago, “The
Trial of Mary Dugan,” though
in mood nearly as old-
fashioned as “The Silver King,”
still has a trick or two to show
and astound.
Revues: Compound and
Simple
Two new revues, both play-
ing to capacity, make an
interesting contrast. “For
Adults Only” is the work of
four young men and aims to
be pungent, hard-hitting and
satirical. Alas for the intent,
it is only partly successful.
This, one suspects, is no fault
of the compilers, who clearly
cast their net widely, only to be
frustrated by our system of
censorship ; the one innocuous
sketch which identified known
people (a politician from TV
and his wife, a former ballet-
dancer) has resulted in pro-
ceedings for libel and token
damages.
“Living for Pleasure,” by
two older hands, Arthur
Macrae and Richard Addinseil,
is less ambitious. It plays safe,
even to music that is blatantly
Tin Pan Alley. Surprisingly, the
oblique approach hits the
targets more surely (notably the
censorship and the “Angry”
vogue). But even so, the show
owes much of its warmth and
fun to Dora Bryan, a natural
comedienne of near genius.
The other principals are
Patience Collier, George Rose
and Daniel Massey, a techni-
cally mature youngster of rare
talent.
Yiddisher Papa
Among the several plays by
young authors, “The Hamlet of
Stepney Green” has attracted
much notice, having gained an
Arts Council award and won
for its author, Bernard Kops,
a job as resident playwright at
the Bristol Old Vic.
It is a fanciful cavalcade of
East End Jewry rather than a
retelling, in modern idiom, of
“Hamlet.” In fact, the Prince’s
clothes fit only where they
touch, and they touch only
incidentally.
Sam Levy is dying labori-
ously, insistently and un-
easily. Long at variance with
his wife, Bessie, he wishes to
see his son David inherit his
herring-stall and marry the
nice but insipid girl next-door
But David, as mixed-up a kid
as ever yearned for notorieLv,
wants to become a crooner.
At long last Sam dies, too late
rather than too soon, but re-
appears after the interval, and
before the mourners have
returned, as a ghost. Here
Shakspeare was wiser than
Kops, for the elder Hamlet’s
walkings were brief and much
to the point. Sam is there all
the time a part that is, in
truth, longer than Hamlet.
What’s left is redeemed by
the comedy, simple and fresh
and sentimental, of Yiddisher
life. Bessie marries Solly, and
David’s revenge, provoked by
the ghost, bears no similarity
to the march of events at
Elsinore. To add to the
whimsy, the characters are
given to bursting into song—
traditional Hebrew melodies.
Brokenhearted House
“Five Finger Exercise”
(Comedy Theatre) is a first
“live” play by a young author,
Peter Shaffer, a graduate from
television. It is a work of great
force and exceptionally cleverly
written, but, no doubt because
he so passionately “feels” his
characters, is less moving than
it should be. Yet he is
obviously a creative dramatist
manship (even the country-
house setting is convincingly
explained); he has a gift for
dialogue and an ear for modern,
especially youthful, instances ;
he credits his audience with
both patience and intelligence
(as witness Walter's long mono-
logue) ; he really has some-
thing to say ; and the psycho-
logical undertones of his
characters and situations are
deep and powerful.
The Harringtons are a pro-
sperous and apparently con-
tented family. Stanley is self-
made, forthright. His wife
Louise, all would-be “culture,”
uplift and good breeding,
despises him for his phili-
stinism. Clive is going to
Cambridge, and 14-year-old
Pamela is about to have
(Mother’s snobbishness again)
a tutor. This Walter is a
German refugee who, appalled
by the Nazi background of his
youth, yearns both for middle-
class English security and
Louise’s mothering. His pre-
sence, unwittingly and most un-
fairly, exacerbates all the sub-
merged tensions and conflicts
and jealousies in the family,
leading to compete disruption
and, for himself, tragedy.
John Gielgud’s sensitive pro-
duction inspires some compell-
ing acting. Roland Culver is
not an actor one associates with
the Method or similar intellec-
tual cults, but, as the father,
his performance has an
economy of effect and a cumu-
lative impact which is the
quintessence of art —especially
poignant is the moment of truth,
when, after continual bruising,
his maligned insensitivity is
revealed as natural self-control.
Adrianne Allen’s Louise is
anything but simple in concept.
Her transition, under stress,
from pose (urbane matron) to
real self (possessive sexuality
plus, on frustration, vengeful
nastiness) is superbly brought
out. Brian Bedford’s Clive,
rebellious, cynical and unsure,
and Michael Bryant’s intro-
spective, pity-gathering Walter
are equally convincing in real-
life terms; and Juliet Mills’s
Pamela, perky and detached
and ebullient, is an astonishing
debut for a 16-year-old.


Story of g Lost Industry
Australia Once Made Films
By LES BLAKE
The United States, France
and England (where
Friese - Greene first
showed the way with
his oiled-paper transparencies)
evolved the cinematograph
between them, but in some
of the elaborations of
production-technique and in
the making of films Australian
pioneer cameramen and
directors made considerable
contribution.
Australia’s pioneer in film-
making was J. H. Perry, who
began production and photo-
graphy of his first film, “The
Early Christian Martyrs,” only
four years after Armat and
Jenkins’s successful projection
experiment in New York.
Indeed, the world's first full-
length feature-film —produced
for the Taits, who had begun as
theatrical impresarios in the
’nineties— may have been “The
Kelly Gang,” photographed in
Studley Park (Vic.) in 1905. The
Tait group subsequently spon-
sored production of six films
(1909-10), which included
adaptations of yarns by Fergus
Hume and Bret Harte.
Exhibitors such as E. J.
Carroll, who bought the
Queensland screening-rights of
“The Kelly Gang” in 1907 —
acquired with their purchase
of a print sole rights for their
particular State ; they then ran
the film through a circuit of
local halls until it was worn
out. The audience paid six-
pence a head.
Crude and all as these films
may have been they stimulated
a demand, especially in country
centres, for more of such novel
entertainment. Before the
advent of these celluloid sensa-
tions entertainment had reached
its greatest moments when a
theatrical company visited a
town. Irish-Bohemian Edmund
Duggan and his partner South,
for example, managed a tour-
ing company which travelled
annually by Cobb and Co.
coach from Victoria to the Gulf
country in Queensland, staging
Shakspeare or “East Lynne” or
some extravagant farce in
theatres, Mechanics Institute
halls and shearing-sheds.
Bert Bailey, who later became
famous for his interpretation
of Steele Rudd’s character
Dad, served his apprenticeship
in the theatre with Ned
Duggan’s company. Later
Duggan and Bailey co-operated
in writing a couple of plays,
one of which, “The Squatter’s
Daughter,” was produced by
Ken Hall as a sound-film in
1933. Randolph Bedford,
author, prospector, journalist,
wanderer and finally Queens-
land M.L.A., was for a time a
member of Duggan’s company.
Another touring company
early in the century was
that of Edwin Geach. And in
Geach’s company were two
players who were to figure
prominently in Australia’s early
film industry. One was Lottie
Lyell—“a little lady, an elo-
cutionist and strictly religious,”
as Raymond Longford de-
scribed her. Born in Sydney in
1891, Lottie Lyell must have
joined Geach’s touring com-
pany when very young. Her
parents and Geach placed her
in Longford’s charge and, in
her ’teens, she was playing leads
opposite him on Australian and
New Zealand tours.
Longford himself, also
Sydney-bom/served an appren-
ticeship in sailing-ships. Then,
determined to become an actor,
he did with typical thorough-
ness what Bailey had done—
learnt the hard way all the
details of scripting, production
and acting with a touring
company.
Lottie Lyell, with her delight-
ful voice and her ability to win
an audience quickly by her
charm and freshness, was an
obvious choice as leading lady
when Longford decided, after
his Thespian years, to tackle
film-production. In Sydney in
1908 he discussed with a friend,
Cousins Spencer, who was
manager of a city theatre, the
possibility of making films that
would at least be as good as
the American products then
reaching Australia. Until that
year the only Australian films
had borne the Perry mark.
To Longford—who has close
on 30 Australian films to his
credit, as well as those pro-
duced subsequently when he
was Commonwealth Govern-
ment production-director for
the British Empire Exhibition
—must go the honor of being
this country’s most prolific
pioneer director.
He has been credited with
being the first to use indoor
studios for filming, as well as
with having invented a tech-
nique of which Hollywood
directors have since become
enamored —the close-up.
TYuring 1909-10 Longford
was busy with at least
three films. In “A Maori Maid’s
Love” he played opposite
Lottie Lyell, but in “The Bush-
whackers,” though Lottie again
had the lead, he was content
to work with Perry. In this
period Longford shared pro-
duction-honors with the John-
son-Gibson-Tait group, but
during the next two years he
almost monopolised the local
field.
Nellie Stewart, fresh from
new dramatic achievements in
“What Every Woman Knows,”
was home again in Australia,
and Longford planned a film-
version of her London success
of 1902, when she had capti-
vated all in the title-role of
“Sweet Nell of Old Drury.”
George Musgrove was engaged
to play opposite her in the
film. Born in England, but
educated at Flinders School,
Geelong, Musgrove had, with
James C. Williamson and
Arthur Garner, established
“The Firm” in 1882, and had
opened Melbourne's new
Princess Theatre four years
later with a triumphant Nellie
as Yum Yum in “The Mikado.”
He had reputedly netted
£60,000 with his London pro-
duction of “The Belle of New
York.”
To Nellie Stewart “that great
and good man” George
Musgrove was a close personal
friend ; and with these two in
the cast, and Longford now an
experienced director, the Aus-
tralian version of “Sweet Nell”
was a sure winner.
Longford was well launched,
but, having paid his tribute to
Nellie Stewart, he loyally
turned to Lottie Lyell again for
his feminine leads. In 1912
his enormous energy and
enthusiasm sent from the Rush-
cutter Bay studios another six
films, two of which, “Trooper
Campbell” and “Taking His
Chance,” were based on Henry
Lawson originals.
Longford experimented for
a time with some early forms
of documentaries ; but in 1914
(the year pioneer cinemato-
graphers Arthur and Ray
Higgins tackled their first pro-
duction, “Australia Responds
to the Empire’s Call'’), he had
some major work for his
studios. Lottie Lyell appeared
with George Cross and Ada
Guildford in “The Mutiny of
the Bounty” (directed for the
Crick-Jones partnership), and
she also featured in Longford's
famous tear - jerker “The
Silence of Dean Maitland” and
another film, “Pommy Arrives
in Australia.” A Bulletin
paragraphist commented a few
years ago that “a commemora-
tive plaque” was surely due to
her as “the first Australian
actress to merit the monicker
film-star.”
TVjring the war years, of
course, most of the 59
films made were on the lines of
“The Martyrdom of Nurse
Cavell,” “Murphy of Anzac,”
“Hero of the Dardanelles,”
“How We Beat the Emden”
and others of like derivation.
Fraser Films, J. C. Williamson
and Australasian Films had
emerged now as prolific pro-
duction-units.
Beaumont Smith, who was
credited by a Brisbane paper
with the authorship of the
stage-version of On Our Selec-
tion (a claim vehemently denied
by Steele Rudd and disregarded
by Bailey, who had a con-
siderable share in the adapta-
tion of the book), began inde-
pendent production in 1917 of
a series of “Hayseeds” films.
A new vogue was thus estab-
lished, and “Dad,” “Waybacks”
and “Hayseeds” films emanated
from various studios in 1918.
The following year Longford
directed for E. J. Carroll his
masterpiece, “The Sentimental
Bloke,” with Ray Higgins as
cameraman and Lottie Lyell as
Doreen. Dennis himself picked
Arthur Tauchert, a vaude-
villian, to play the Bloke.
Gilbert Emery, of the long-
slung jaw, was cast as Ginger
Mick. Steeny Isaacs, who sold
brums in the Eastern Market,
was played by Alex Kerr, a
picture-framer in the Market,
where Longford shot part of
the film.
Pat Hanna, who directed
Australia’s first talkie,
“Diggers,” in 1931, in the
following year directed a
(Continued on page 56)


&
1
to (•<
tllOllG
GOODYEAR
w
Custom Super/cushion
MORE PEOPLE, THE WORLD OVER. RIDE ON GOODYEAR TYRES THAN ON ANT OTHER MAKE
EO72A


Waterfront
By HAL PORTER
Madame, of the Williams-
town wine depot, was
from Vraa, Jutland:
“I ’ave been een Aus-
tralie seence I was t’irteen.”
T’irteen? Unimaginable—only
by transhuman effort could
she transport her hogshead-
bulk more than a perch.
Malicious pains nomadically
inhabited the vast country of
her flesh: “ Bonjour! My
bell-ee, my Goad ’e geef me
’ell.” “Las’ night, my ’eep,
My Goad ’e geef me ’ell.” “I
was joost to seet down—oon,
my knee—’e geef me ’ell.”
Most often she was victim to
her one stable ailment: “My
blood-ee laigs, my vair-ee-cos
veins, my Goad dey geef me
’ell!”
But vivacity, Gallic gestures
and almost audible eyebrows
inherited from a French father
amended her grossness and
cancelled the tiresome script
of suffering with a scrawl of
risque allusions and quite
Flemish witticisms, each with
the paraph of a guttural
chuckle of which the succeed-
ing undertones each had its
lesser paraph. Nothing atonic
about Madame!
She flourished a perpetual
fat cigarette, her own making.
One moment her hand
descended to the cigarette-box,
a fleam gashing air with
rubies in claws of gold ; next,
both hands, eyebrows,
shoulders and snip-snap jet
eyes were expressively aloft . . .
zo ! Nine glasses of claret and
she forgot her veiny legs,
giggled, shook like blanc-
mange in earthquake: “Bon
zante ! Moi . . . moi . . . je znis
heureuze !”
Her saloon interested the
beer-drinking locals little.
Besides, that century-old part
of Williamstown was waste-
land, a murderer’s dream of
gangling weeds, of empty build-
ings projected at lunatic angles
above desolation. To suburb-
anites from Victoria Street,
Williamstown, it was “down
there,” haunt of stray artists,
stray cats, stray ghosts of last
century gander - straddling
pigtailed sailors, convicts,
sail makers, red-legged soldiers,
water - police, polyglot
merchants, crinolined harlots,
nailcan - toppered Peelers,
aborigines, ship-chandlers and
provedores.
Once, down there, people
numerous as lice lived a fervid
life to the song of gold and
sin. Wooden ships jostled,
waggons crashed over cobbles;
there were seagulls and dolly-
shops, song and murder,
bought love and public hang-
ings ; the wind and the sea
wrestled together; the hedge
of masts and spars whistled
and creaked. On foggy nights
when nothing was outlined,
one heard the veiled clash of •
guineas or manacles, the jangle
of drunken gavottes, the thud
of skittles or fists, the bawdy
laughter of seamen and night-
women as they lurched under
the reeking lanterns of old
Williamstown.
Now, weeds grew between
the cardtable-sized paving-
stones ; the sea was effete;
fennel and marshmallow
waxed higher than doors
locked decades ago. But
ships still blundered to the un-
steady wharves, and sailors to
Madame’s. For Madame,
solitary in this rubbish-heap,
sold a cheap and bedevilling
wine.
Tn nineteen-thirty-four an
incandescent day you
went to Madame’s expecting
. . . who knows?
Outside, to be escaped, the
enormous diamond of day,
limp-leaved elms, scent of
dried grass and planks, heat
ruffling its blinding white
Lucifer-wings. Inside ... ah!
. . . chink of glass, iceberg-
shadow, counter bound by soft
brass the color of that peace
which is poverty’s only joy.
Madame attended two creoles.
You felt yourself, on enter-
ing, emit light; a glow came
from your mouth, “Bonjour,
madamel” Your high-school
French.
‘‘Ah-ha! Ce va, mon chon ?”
You were a favorite. “My
back, today, my Goad ’e geef
me ’ell!’*’
And “ Bon jou,' bon jou,*
blanc,” mewed the tipsy
creoles turning creamy eye-
balls at you. Dazzling teeth
and shirts, vaudeville suits,
horseshoe tiepins, pointed
patent-leather shoes of sorrel-
color.
After dop, Mahebourg rum
and Witte Blitz the “white
lightning” that kindled Cape
Boys, Blanket Kaffirs and
back-veldt bumpkins
Madame’s cheapest plonk was
Bollinger to creoles. They
spoke the languid patois of
Mauritius, fruity with English
obscenity and the Taal. They
drank a raspberry-colored con-
coction named Shiraz.
Madame drank with you ; the
afternoon dissolved in wine-
glasses. Then: “Moi . . . my
Goad . . . moi, je zuis
lieureuze !”
You all were —very. Mists
gathered, from them, from in-
complete sentences, broken-
springed gesticulations and
bared eyes, you constructed
significant myths. Suddenly,
drunk, gravely winking,
Madame produced a bottle of
absinthe, became inspired, a
ritualist. The brass, like golden
death, rimmed the life of the
counter.
“Qui-et, you sods,” whis-
pered Madame unnecessarily.
“Regardcz! Like dees . . . and
dees. .
She arranged her machinery:
a large tumbler, a liqueur-
glass containing absinthe inside
that, bridging the tumbler
a spoon with perforated bowl
in which balanced a prism of
sugar. Madame flicked her
cigarette, held a jug of weep-
ing ice aloft. From its lip one
drop, onto sugar, through
sugar, through spoon, into
liqueur glass. Drip. Drip.
Drip. The liqueur glass over-
flowed.
Drip. Drip. Drip. Madame's
temples glistened. Drip, drip,
drip. The brass glided, glided.
Drip, drip, drip ... At last,
“ Fini /” gasped Madame. “A
blood-ee goot trink. T'e real
Mackay. Two bob, pliss, mon
chon.” Arctic, Rimbaudian,
aniseed-flavored elixir. . .
And now, through quivering
fog. they, the creoles,
began to grow clearer, to
flower. The sturdy, vital one
Toni. The listless, effemi-
nate one was Felicite.
As Felicite reeled, full-
blown, words streamed smokily
from his velvet lips—he was
so young, so illused, a fo’c’stle
Shelley, a French - quateron
Chatterton of the S.S. Dalia,
tramp. He outfumed a vanilla-
scented autobiography ; at the
crisis of his burning ado-
lescence an incredibly cultured


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
q'SUUJVam
l>*. pty . itd aj
& **'**? x,
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS 6c OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL," BRISBANE
mama died —slowly and grace-
fully—behind white pillars and
blue shutters on L’He Maurice.
He became elegiac; quoted
Shakspeare and himself on
death. How the smoke stung
his eyes! How more and
more bitter the smoke became:
S.S. Dalia was really hell,
“Ah hate ’em, ma-an. Ah
hate ’em, white ma-an.
‘Neegger,’ they scream. ‘Laz-ee
cur! Work, neegger! Get
along-along, neegger! Brakje,
voetsak!' Those peegs . . .
Bijwoners . . . white peegs . . .”
He was self-pityingly malicious.
Yet you sensed some other
terror under tangled invective.
He lolled. His fingers slipped
often from the brass. Seas,
empty of life for miles, began
to slosh behind the lens of his
eyes.
Toni meantime flamed un-
flickeringly, said ominously, as
though displeased, as though
also he wished to have Felicite
think of other things, “Ma-an,
Felicite-man give me tizzy.
Buy me drink, ma-an.” He
bared his stinging, glassy teeth.
“Sea ees baas,” moaned the
poet, suddenly shedding his
petals. “Sea ees vaudoux, sea
ees fool of spooks. Ah hate
sea,” His thin hands flopped
like dead pigeons ; his slanted
shoulders quailed under assaults
of waves, he swayed to their
rhythm.
“Balm - ee!” growled
Madame, fleetingly mimicking
imbecility. Immediately after
she transformed herself into
the conventional callous saloon-
keeper ; her eyebrows mounted,
one trembling higher than the
other; she would stand no
more nigger tantrums ; a too-
early “Pas d’a’gent, mama
blanc!” had soured the claret
in her stomach. Moreover, one
of her agonies nibbling like
a weasel had gnawed a hole in
the substance of her good
nature and added reality to
professional displeasure.
“Felicite, sailor-ma-an,” said
Toni, also becoming nasty.
“Give cigarette, ma-atelot. Buy
drink, fellah.”
“Sea ees fool of spooks; Ah
hear spooks ; Ah see hands een
the water. . .” No restraining
Felicite now ; his eyes revolved
as he undulated in underwater
slime.
“Felicite-man,” said Toni,
voice stretched to snapping-
point, “why you talk on this-
a-way, fell - a - ah? Why,
bastaard?”
Felicite drowned. Blotchy
lips crawled back from his
teeth. He began to wail softly,
“Toni-man, moi ne pas connay,
man. Ah don’ know, don’
know, don’ knew .. .”
Deliberately, Toni clawed the
poet’s face. His voice had
snapped, “Tell, ma-an.”
“Moi ne pas connay.”
“Tell . . , tell . . . tell . .
“Moi ne pas connay.”
Toni grabbed the limp throat
“Allez!” screamed Madame.
“W’ere t’e blood-ee ’ell you
t’ink you are? Out! Out!”
/''Vut. Gentian-blue twilight;
Edam-cheese moon bal-
anced on the horizon ; two or
three throbbing planets.
Madame, unheeded, from her
doorway to which she had
amazingly heaved herself on
a lever of passion, “Zales
negres ! Zales matelots ! Go!
And you there” —(you, her
favored, her cabbage)— “blond
zot a triple etage, don’ come
back, you baztard.” For-
gotten, she watched you reel
through crackling weeds.
Toni’s eyes speared Felicite
to an elm-bole. “You don’
tell, eh? See fist, sailor-ma-an
• —it want hit you, fist want hit
you.”
“Moi ne pas connay”
“Oh, oh, ma-an, I’m want
stop fist. Fist want hit you.
Fist want smash face.”
The fist did indeed seem to
possess its own purpose. It
darted on viper-wrist, an intel-
ligent entity related in no way
to either unhappy man. They
faced each other on their
leashes, frightened; tears
dropped from four eyes.
Fennel haulms rattled dryly.
The cheese moon jerked
higher. A sea-something, half-
witted, churned water-rotten
pinions in the inflamed air
above Felicite’s head, some-
thing lumbering, octopus-
beaked. He suddenly began
to bubble and gibber, “The
sea-sea, the sea-sea . . . water-
faces . . . baas sea . s . fool of
spooks . . , moi ne pas
connay . .
Toni leapt. With fists, talons
and patent-leather points he
made of the poet a messy
parcel to drag shipwards.
Your ill-constructed protests
vanished, reached nowhere,
heard not even by yourself.
You followed the creoles.
'T'he fo’c’stle: Felicite, with
a face like a rotten apple,
moaned in a bunk. Stink.
Even to your wine-deadened
nostrils —stink.
Furious electric-light. San-
dals, emptied bottles. A
copper kettle, for whose exist-
ence in that place you could
find no argument. Naked
part-bloods prone, lolling,
asprawl, smoking, singing,
sweating. A violin ... six
blunted notes, lagrimoso, over
and over and over again. All
were drugged by the monoton-
ous noise they unconsciously
made, by smoke, by alcohol,
by putrescent air.
Toni produced food: a
knee-high jar of acrid pickles,
cold grey potatoes, maggoty
mutton, slimy lettuce. You
ate indecently.
Then: “Beer!” he cried.
His cry seemed to demand
knowledge of where beer
might be hidden. His cry, like
an extra sense, ranged the
fo’c’stle and its few private
niches. He glared at the
others, swaggered, made an
esoteric motion with one hand.
It suggested unimaginable
brutalities to you.
There was immediately a
change of atmosphere, of tex-
ture and tensity, an imper-
ceivable cringing.
The music did not flicker;
the singing continued. Yet
you were conscious of a sub-
surface blenching.
Again: “Beer!”
Weary voices:
“Moi ne pas connay ."
“Dunno, fell-a-ah.”
“Ek weet nie.”
“Don’t know, baas.”
His every minutest move-
ment exuded incomprehensible
defiance, was a challenge no
one considered accepting.
Suddenly, inspired, he smashed
open a locker with the iron
potato-saucepan, grabbed four
bottles from the wreck.
You and he drank . . .
silently . . . more and more
with distaste.
Felicite moaned.
Chanting, sweating, violin
went imperturbably on.
Inciting himself to activity
again, Toni wrenched pillows
from beneath others’ heads,
demoniacally grinning, show-
ing-off. To reveal contempt
for them rather than care for
you he made you a louse-
ridden, sweat-foul bed.
You did not wish to lie
down.
You lay down.
(Continued on page 57)
FISHING
[For Douglas Stewart]
Yellow-green, warm sea-water
dragging the tops of drowned
kelp-trees.
Red, rough rock, the rippled
blue
razor-edged lace of oysters
and the polished pearl of oyster
scars.
Sandflies, flecks of soot that
bite
and draw their hot pinpricks of
blood.
A ginger cat that meows for
bait
and ruby-eyed gulls that sit
■and wait.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.
ANTITHESIS
Red-roofed the village, brown
the land
And gold the beach and blue
the sky
And green the sea. The pit-
head’s white.
This matters and l wonder
why.
I wonder why antithesis,
A pithead building painted so,
Can whitewash in a stranger’s
mind
The darkness that exists below.
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.


Financial Policy 1958-59
[The following explanation by Sir
Arthur Fadden of the Budget back-
ground was not fully reported in.
the daily press.]
T said at the beginning of my
speech that the Government
proposed to budget for an
overall cash deficiency of
£110,000,000, and 1 have since
explained how the deficiency
has arisen. I now wish to out-
line the considerations which
have guided us in reaching this
decision.
First of all, we have shaped
our policy on the Budget as
part of a wider economic
policy. The Budget is, of
course, a highly important
element in that policy—perhaps
the most important of all—but
it is not the only one. For
example, monetary and bank-
ing policy has a great influence
on the position, and there, as
1 have said, the restraints on
bank-lending imposed under
earlier conditions have been
relaxed, and the central bank
has been assisting the trading-
banks, by keeping up the level
of their liquid assets, to increase
their lending to trade and
industry.
/Consistently also with our
general policy the Govern-
ment has decided to maintain
this year the same target for
immigration as in recent years
■—that is to say, a gross intake
of 115,000 migrants for the
12 months. The arguments
in favor of doing this are, I
think, quite overwhelming. On
the one hand, immigration is,
without' doubt, a powerful
influence in sustaining demand
—demand both for capital-
facilities and for consumption-
goods. It would therefore be
a great mistake at this time
when, in one sector of the
economy, there is a shrinkage
of demand, to cut I he
intake of migrants. On
the other hand, the steady
growth of population, in which
immigration plays such an
important part, has un-
doubtedly become the basis of
forward planning by many
people in industry and trade.
They are looking to increased
population to provide wider
markets in the future.
In yet another field, the
Government is intensifying its
efforts to secure greater out-
lets for our exports abroad.
It believes that, far from being
discouraged by the current
difficulties of world trade, it
should take these difficulties as
a stronger challenge to be up
and doing. Accordingly,, it is
exploring market possibilities
in more and more countries,
encouraging trade - missions,
negotiating with various
countries to secure better treat-
ment for our exports, and
striving by every means at hand
to combat policies, such
as agricultural protectionism,
surplus-disposals and other
exports on uneconomic terms,
which are restricting oppor-
tunities for our trade overseas.
I have cited these matters to
illustrate the breadth, diversity
and consistency of the policies
Revenue.
. + or
Estimate, on
1958-59. 1957-58.
T axado'n • revenue — £mil. £mil.
Customs .. .. 74.0 + 2.3
Excise .. .. 244.0 +11.3
Sales-tax .. ~ 147.0 + 9.2
Income-tax—
Individuals .. 403.4 —31.7
Companies .. 207.0 8.3
Payroll-lax .. 50.5 + 1.9
Estate-duty .. 14.7 + 0.9
Gift-duty .. 2.1 +O.l
Total taxation .. 1142.7 —14.4
Other revenue —
Miscellaneous .. 41.0 2.2
Railways .. .. 5.0 + 2.2
Post Office .. 102.5 + 5.7
Broadcasting and TV 8.0 +l.l
Territories 3.0 +O.l
Total revenue .. 1302.2 9.2
Expenditure.
Defence .. .. 190.0 + 4.9
Less L6an Fund 78.0 +78;0
112.0 -73.1
War and Repat. 130.0 + 2.0
National Welfare 273.8 +26.3
Departmental .. 65.9 + 5.3
Bounties and Subs. 16.7 + 1.0
Miscellaneous 49.6 + 1.5
Railways .. .. 4.7 + 0.4
Post Office .. 101.9 +4.9
Broadcasting, TV 8.5 + 1.1
Territories .. 21.1 +l.B
Stales .. .. 287.5 +16.9
Capital Works .. 128.6 + 5.0
Loan Reserve .. 102.0 2.4
Total expenditure 1302.2 9.2
the Government is following.
Our policy on the Budget has
its place in that general pattern.
Essentially, we believe, our
internal position is sound —and
not merely sound but highly
progressive. Industry, in all its
main sectors, is doing a
tremendous job. If the primary
industries are currently suffer-
ing a setback, it is no fault of
the primary industries them-
selves. For, taking them as a
whole, their achievement in
recent years has been remark-
able in point of increased out-
put, greater capacity for pro-
duction, efficiency and con-
servation of resources. Equally
can that be said of manufac-
turing, where, as we all know,
astonishing progress has been,
and is being, made in estab-
lishing new industries, applying
new processes and techniques
and building foundations for
still greater development. There
has also been great progress
in mining, a development which
we should particularly welcome
because of the promise it holds
for increased exports. All these
constitute the great processes of
growth which must be kept
moving.
Something over two years
ago, when, for various
reasons, total demand had
become excessive and there
was undue strain on
resources, the Government
shaped its budgetary policy
to reduce demand and ease
the pressure on. resources.
It brought-down additional
taxation to ensure that, overall,
the inflow of public funds
would match the outgoings and,
if need be, show a surplus. That
policy was unquestionably the
right one for the time. Today
conditions are somewhat
different. Labor is no longer
scarce as it was then ; addi-
tional labor is coming forward
and will have to be absorbed.
Demand for goods is no
longer excessive ; in the im-
portant rural sector, indeed,
demand has contracted and
may possibly contract still
further.
These then are the grounds
on which the Government has
decided to carry an overall
deficiency in this financial year.
As I have shown, the deficiency
is, in part, due to a short-fall
in revenue which, in itself,
follows upon a drop in rural
incomes. That is ground we
can reasonably hope to recover
before too great a time has
passed. Partly also it is the
result of tax-concessions made
by the Government last year
which will, in this year, yield
their full benefit to industry
and commerce. The rise in
expenditures of various kinds
will also serve to support
activity over a very wide field.
That is obviously true of
works expenditure,'payments to
the States and social-service
payments. But it is also true of
debt - redemptions because
people who obtain cash for
their maturing bonds or stock
will, for the most part, either
reinvest it somewhere or spend
it on consumption-goods. In
general, the effect of the Budget
will be that, whilst rather less is
being taken from the public in
taxation-revenue, more will be
added to incomes through the
increase in public expenditure.
T>orrowing on Treasury-bills
to finance the deficiency will
add to the liquidity of the bank-
ing-system, but I do not think
that, under present circum-
stances, it need do so in an
excessive way. As 1 men-
tioned earlier, we expect that
there will be a fairly substantial
fall in our overseas reserves,
and the effect of that will be to
draw down banking liquidity.
If that drain were not made up
in some way it would have a
constricting effect on the bank-
ing-system. Deficit-financing by
the Government will help to
avoid such an effect. That is
to say, it will largely be a
matter of one movement off-
setting the other.
Naturally, we gave a lot of
thought to the question whether
any further tax-concessions
ought to be made in this
Budget. That, of course, is
something we would have
wished to do had it been prac-
ticable. But various con-
siderations weighed against it.
One was that it would have
increased the overall deficiency
this year; and we were not
prepared to do that. In effect,
tax-concessions would have
been made by borrowing still
more from the central bank.
After all, total expenditure in
the economy has for some time
been rising and, for anything
we can see, will continue to
rise. The second consideration
was that, by the nature of most
tax-concessions, the cost to
revenue would have fallen more
upon the Budget for next year
than upon the Budget for this
year.
We did not think that we
ought to mortgage the future
in that way. We are not there-
fore making any tax-conces-
sions of a general character.
Those of which I give details
either provide for the continu-
ance of existing concessions or,
at the most, widen their scope
to some extent. At the same
time I think I should emphasise
again that this year the
economy will have, in full
measure, the benefits of the
very considerable tax-conces-
sions made last year.
On the other hand, we have
taken up the problem of pro-
viding for that class of social-
service pensioners who have
little, if any, means of support
other than their pension, and
we have drawn-up proposals
which should give valuable help
to such people.


BALD PATCHES
Hair grown secret formula
Sacred Eastern Oils. Rarely
fails. Treats Alopecia. Leading
broadcaster’s hair grown after
years of Baldness. Effective
treatment for dandruff (Basic
cause of nearly all hair sick-
ness), and stops falling hair.
My herbal treatment restores
grey hair to original colour.
Not a dye—not injurious, not
obvious. Names given of lead-
ing citizens (with their per-
mission) who gratefully testify.
My treatment used in privacy
of your home.
For free advice write—
MRS. A. EASTON,
Box 5204, G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
spring Fancies
First weight-for-age race of
the Sydney spring season —the
£l5OO Canterbury Stakes, six
furlongs—will be staged by the
Sydney Turf Club at its
Canterbury track next Satur-
day. Main interest will centre
in the performance of the
younger horses.
Last year Prince Jambo (A.
Ward) won the Canterbury
Stakes from Gentle Lu and
Mandingos, and on a holding
track ran the six furlongs in
1.13 1/5. It was Ward’s third
success ; he had won in 1950
and 1951 on San Domenico.
Holdfast had three successive
wins (1930-31-32). W. Cook,
who rode Holdfast in two of
those wins, also won this sprint
on Arachne (1936), Beau Vite
(1939) and Gay Monarch
(1948). “Cookie” is now almost
ready to return to race-riding
after an absence of several
months due to a broken leg
sustained in a track accident.
At Rosehill last Saturday
horses trained at Canterbury
by Jack Denham shared in
the prizemoney in five of the
seven events, including wins
in the main double, the Flying
Handicap with Troy and the
Rosehill Handicap with Half
Hennesy. Prince Genius was
beaten a neck in the Welter by
Star Boy, while Sir Chiron and
Essayist also filled second
places. On his good second to
Tranquilette in the Rosehill
Winter Cup a fortnight earlier
Half Hennesy appeared to have
an excellent chance. He duly
ran right up to that form,
coming from last to win well.
He has now come into favor
for the Metropolitan, in which
he has 8.3, or 61b. less than he
carried on Saturday. (Metrop.
weights are framed on a 7st.
basis, against the 7.3 in the
Rosehill event.)
Joint-owners A. G. Potter
(A.J.C. chairman) and Keith
Mackay (former A.J.C. com-
mitteeman) were, at Rosehill to
see their good-looking three-
year-old colt Valerius win his
first race, the Auburn Stakes.
As a maiden he carried 7.12,
and easily beat eight oppon-
ents, all prior winners at some
time or other. It was a sound
trial for immediate future
engagements, and the Delville
Wood (imp.) colt might prove
a worthy Derby prospect,
though that’s a big step. In
favor of Valerius is that all the
progeny of his dam, Eternal
City (imp.), have been winners
—Prince Delville, Cassar, Fort
William, >Roman Holiday,
Redeswood and Flames, with
the first-named an A.J.C.
Derby winner.
• • n •
At this time of the year some
minor placegetters in sprint
“ Couldn't you look a bit more nonchalant, Chas?”
events run well enough to sug-
gest prospects in races like the
Epsom or the- Canterbury and
Rosehill Guineas. Among
such, Man of Iron was an
interesting runner in the Rose-
hill Flying, finishing second to
the better-fancied and better-
conditioned Troy. Man of
Iron hadn’t had an outing
since winning the Q.T.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes in June,
whereas Troy had finished
second to Grey Ghost in the
Doomben Ten Thousand on
July 5 and fourth to Gentle
Lu at Rosehill on July 19.
Anyway, Man of Iron seems
sure to do well over the spring
round. Engagements for him
include the A.J.C. Derby,
Epsom (7.11) and Metrop.
(7.7). He is a half-brother to
Kingster, and could run a solid
mile in the best company. How-
ever, the Derby will probably
be his mission.
• • • •
Seventeen-year-old appren-
tice Joe Coffey rode his first
winner in the city area when
he landed the Second Parra-
matta Stakes on Alta Vista,
trained at Rosebery by his
master, Stan Wheeler, whose
fair-sized team includes promis-
ing stayer Eudare, now getting
ready for his first win of the
new season. Eudare is
engaged in the Metrop. with
7.7 (71b. above the limit). Alta
Vista has had a number of pro-
vincial wins ; three days before
his Rosehill success he had
easily won a Hawkesbury Im-
provers’ event with a similar
weight. He’s a four-year-old by
Port Vista (imp.) from Princess
Caravel.
• •••
Horses that win a Gradu-
ation Stakes with 9st. seldom
have much difficulty in winning
in Welter company; in fact,
some trainers consider it easier
to land a Welter than a Gradu-
ation with 9st. Shamrock,
winner of three Graduation
Stakes races, the last two in
succession, now goes into open
company, and on his Rosehill
display he should soon win
against all-comers, especially in
races of one mile or a little
further. He’s a four-year-old
entire by Jambo (imp.) from
Vestal Maid by Nizami (imp.)
from Vestal Queen by Chief
Ruler (imp.). Trainer C. L.
Sheil has the grey galloper in
splendid trim.
Brisbane owners of Rin Tin,
winner of the mile Sandgate
Handicap at the Q.T.C. meet-
ing at Eagle Farm, hope to see
him winning the Caulfield Cup.
Rin Tin carried 8.2 and won
easily. He has 7.11 at Caulfield
and lib. less in the Melbourne
Cup. It’s intended to fly him
to Melbourne a few weeks
hence and give him lead-up
races to the Caulfield Cup.
Repatriate, a smart Brisbane
three-year-old, will also go to
Melbourne for spring racing.
J. Mandel, Sydney paddock
bookmaker and breeder of
thoroughbreds, has done well
with the progeny of imported
•Persian Book. They keep
winning in most States.
Another was added to the list
when Shah Abbas defeated
Amber Gem and Napoli Prince
in the Q.T.C. Maiden (lOj-
furlongs). A gelding, Shah
Abbas (from Shady Lady) is
trained by Fred Best.
• • • •
Weights for the Free Handi-
cap, a mythical race for three-
year-olds at one mile, are issued
this time each year by the Aus-
tralian Bloodhorse Breeders’
Association. The imposts are
compiled by A.J.C. handicapper
Ken Goodwin in collaboration
with handicappers in other
States. Placing of champion
filly Wiggle at top of the list
with 9.5 wasn’t surprising, even
though it was the first time
since the scheme was introduced
in 1953 that a filly has topped
the weights.
• • • •
Wiggle proved the best two-
year-old filly in years, and
she could go on to greater
things this term.. Melbourne’s
Misting, on 9.3, is rated next-
best to Wiggle, then come Man
of Iron (9.2) and Melbourne's
consistent Webster (8.9). Prince
Kerdieil, five wins last season,
has a high rating on 8.7, but
he has yet to prove himself
against the top-class though
he might do. so in the near
future.
• •••
For a Randwick placegetter
Gabrielle started at liberal odds
(12 to 1) for her first win,
a Hawkesbury Maiden
Three-year-old for fillies. At
Randwick in April she ran
third to Bold Colleen and was
then spelled. Her third outing
since then brought success.
Trained at Rosebery by
Norman Brown, the filly is by


start the dau riqht!
ffijcsj*®
s cs£!l
Merry Cavalier (imp.) from
French Girl by Genetout (Fr.).
• 4 • •
Improving upon recent
displays Jungleen won Hawkes-
bury Club’s Maiden Three-
year-old for colts and geldings.
Trained at Rosehill by M
Webster, the colt is a half-
brother to Blue Rhapsody, a
Randwick winner, and is also
related to Travesty and
Desperado, two smart New
Zealand winners in past
seasons. Jungleen is by
Emperor (Fr.) from Light Lady
(imp.).
• • • •
The A.J.C.’s 116th annual
report, to be presented to mem-
bers on Friday, shows that in
direct taxes the club paid the
State Government no less than
£546,709 during the season just
ended. The club showed a
profit of £8092, but this was
some thousands lower than
the 1956-57 return. At 34
meetings £327,617, including
owners’ sweepstakes, was dis-
tributed to winners and place-
getters. There is an average
of 435 horses in training at
Randwick and 88 at Warwick
Farm (the club would like to
see more trainers at the Farm,
where facilities are first-rate).
——At Caulfield
In the absence of Pedro's
Pride and Redfield (both
injured) the class in last Satur-
day’s Australian Steeplechase
was just so-so. The Redfield
stable, however, was fortunate
to have a good second-string in
the six-year-old Sirius mare
Bright Lu. In the leading bunch
throughout the 3| miles, Bright
Lu showed good stamina in
holding off Tasmanian galloper
Aershot in the run home, with
Careydale third.
If was the second year in
a row that a mare had wou
the long ’chase, Pedro’s Pride
winning last year, although
prior to that only two mares
had won in 50 years. Bright
Lu won her first steeplechase
only a couple of months back,
but since then has scored four
times. Winner’s purse for the
Australian Steeple was £2OOO,
so Bright Lu has proved a
bargain for owner W. M.
Ryan, who paid only 90gns. for
her. It has been a most suc-
cessful year for Ryan he
also owns Redfield.
• • • •
Biggest disappointment for
racegoers at Caulfield was Sir
Blink’s unplaced effort in the
mile Chatsworth Plate for three-
year-olds. The colt had been
regarded as Victoria’s best hope
for classic honors this spring.
Sent out at odds-on, he dropped
to the rear early in the race,
moved up sharply on the turn,
but put little dash into his
finishing effort. However, he
carried 9.13 on a rain-soaked
track, and was racing second-
up from a spell.
•
Winner of the Chatsworth
was that good-class gelding
Monasterevan, showing again
that horses benefit from a
winter trip to Brisbane—at
his previous start he had won
over seven furlongs at Doom-
ben. His win on Saturday was
particularly good. From an
outside barrier he had to be
Used-up early to get near the
lead, but still had the courage
to hold off all challengers in
the run home.
• * • •
Running of the two-mile
Malakoff Stakes gave no lead
to the important spring handi-
caps. N.Z.-bred six-year-old
entire Humber Hawk won the
race —his first success in many
tries since he won the Veteran
Stakes at Flemington on Oaks
Day last year. Humber Hawk
can stay well enough, but he
is a plodding type, and seems
able to win only when the class
is weak. Ron Hutchinson had
the mount: a racegoer who
confined his bets to “Hutchy”
in distance events would come
to little harm.
Although the distance was
much too short for him, Fight-
ing Force ran an impressive
fifth in the six-furlongs St.
Aubin Handicap at Caulfield.
Few good horses have had as
unlucky a career. There were
many who said he was the best
of good things beaten in the
1956 Melbourne Cup, in which
he finished fourth after being
almost brought down on the
turn. Last year he went amiss
after running second in the
Moonee Valley Cup. He is
obviously fit again. Second-
last half-a-mile from home in
the St. Aubin, he finished like
a jet-plane to just miss a place.
The Melbourne Cup is his
mission this year, but he should
be dangerous in any handicap
leading up to the big race.
• '•) .• •
Lord won the St. Aubin.
Neither racing first-up from a
spell nor his big weight
troubled the Targui gelding.
Last season Lord was an out-
standing sprinter amongst his
own age, and he is just as good
in open company. He will
continue to get big weights,
but he is built to carry them.
Looking well ahead, Lord
seems an ideal Newmarket
type.
• • • •
Adelaide solicitor and former
Carlton (Vic.) footballer Ray
Brew is a lucky owner. He
has won no end of races with
that good mare Pushover, and
now that she is at the end of
her racing days Brew seems to
have a useful galloper in Byrd.
Following a narrow defeat by
Gay Saba at Caulfield last
Saturday week, Byrd went one
better to score in the Man-
chester Welter at the same
track on Saturday. Byrd, who
could go on improving, is by
Masthead, whose stock have
lifted the standard of racing in
South Australia, with Matrice
probably the best of them.
Masthead was by Blue Peter,
one of the greatest racehorses
and sires bred im England this
century.
The perverse luck of the
racing game! Winner of the
Arkaringa Hurdle at Caulfield
was the 50-to-l chance Radiant
Path. Trainer Jack Godby
confessed after the race that
he had not had a penny on
Radiant Path, whose hurdle-
form had been dreadful. And
to cap that, the Godby-trained
Sir Blink was defeated at odds-
on in the following race!
Although the class he de-
feated was not of much
account, Standard Gold could
hardly have won Caulfield’s
Cambria Plate more easily
than he did. Prominent from
the start, he cleared right away
in the straight to win the 10-
furlongs event by 10 lengths.
The winner’s form is not much
known in Melbourne, and his
connections were able to back
him at outside odds. His
owner, G. P. Lee, is a grazier
in the Maffra district, and in
the same area trainer J. P.
Morgan combines his racing-
interests with a dairyfarm.
There should be cream for all
on the farm this week —
Standard Gold was backed
from 50 to 1 to half that
quote.
!•' ’•] .* o
Keith Nuttall, part-owner
F. H. Slamen, trainer C. A,
Wilson and the horse High
Classic were all disqualified for
two years by the V.R.C.
stipendiary stewards following
an inquiry into High Classic's
run in the Cooee Handicap at
Moonee Valley on July 26,
Slamen is one of Victoria’s
most prominent owners.
Wilson had a big team in train-
ing, including Webster, winner
last season of six races straight.
* * *
Other Sports
Without doubt the most
remarkable mile-race ever (a
veritable “mile‘’-stone in world
athletics) was the race in
Dublin last Wednesday night
when five runners all finished
in under 4min. Proving himself
the greatest middle-distance
runner of all time, Westralian
Herb Elliott won in a phe-
nomenal 3.54.5, 3.ssec. better
than Landy’s 3.58 and 2.7 sec.
faster than Ibbotson’s not-
ratified 3.57.2. It was Elliott’s
eighth under-4min. mile, all run
this year. Second, in 3.55.9,
was unlucky Merv Lincoln,
fated to be out-run and out-
shone by Elliott. Irishman Ron
Delany (3.57.5) was third, New
Zealander Murray Hal berg,
winner of the three-miles at the
Empire Games (also 3.57.5),
fourth, and Australian Albert
Thomas (3.58.6) fifth. Elliott,
every bit as modest a champion
as' was Landy, is a more-than-
fitting successor to the first
Australian to break 4min. The
following night Albert Thomas
set a new two-mile world
record of Bmin. 32sec., cutting
I.4sec. off lharos’s 1955 record,
while Halberg ran a world-
record four-miles.
* * *
Saturday’s V.F.L. round was
sensational, with three of “the
four” beaten; the previous
week two of the top four had
lost. North has now lost its
fourth place on percentages to
Essendon, which looks to have
the edge in the struggle to
make the finals. Essendon, at
home, had a great three-point
win over Melbourne 11.12-
10.15, adding five goals
in the last 15min. in the
equivalent game at Windy
Hill last season Melbourne
defeated Essendon by one
point after umpire Schwab,
who thereby nearly touched-off
a riot, gave a free kick to
Melbourne (which was goaled
by full-forward Webb) in the


Legal Notice
LOI'IS ELLISON (or ELLERSON or
ELLERTSENj late of Annandale in the
State of New South Wales Australia
Deceased died on 21st Juue 1933 for-
merly a resident of .Queensland and of
Western Australia mayvliave been born
in Norway.—PURSUANT to a Decretal
Order of the Supreme Court of New
South Wales in its Equitable Jurisdic-
tion dated the 28th day of July 1939
and made in Suit No. 140 of" 1938 en-
titled “In the matter of the estate of
LOUIS ELLISON formerly of Amian-
dale near Sydney in the State of New
South Wales Gentleman deceased ;
BETWEEN WILFRED BRUCE DUE
and JOSHUA GLASS Plaintiffs and
HER MAJESTY’S A T T 0 R X E Y-
GENERAL FOR NEW SOUTH WALES,-
Defendant,” whereby the following en-
quiry was (directed namely, that it be
referred to the Master in Equity to
enquire and ascertain who are the
persons entitled by virtue of the Wills
Probate and Administration Act 1898
and the Statute of Distributions or
otherwise to the estate of the above-
named LOUIS ELLISON (or ELLERSON
or ELLERTSEN) deceased other than
and except the legacy that has already
been paid out thereof and whether any
of them are since dead and if so who are
their respective legal personal represen-
tatives if any in the State of New
South Wales NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN that all persons claiming to be
entitled under enquiries are
to send by post prepaid to MESSRS.
ROBILLIARD R ROBILLIARD, Soli-
citors, 21 George Street, Parramatta,
New South Wales so as to reach them
ou or before the ,14th day of November,
lti.iS, their full Christian and surnames
addresses and descriptions -and full par-
ticulars of their claims or in default
thereof they will be excluded from the
benefit of the said Decretal Order unless
the Court or a Judge thereof or the
Master in Equity -on application other-
wise orders. Claimants are to attend
personally or by Solicitor or Counsel
before the Master in Equity at the
Supreme Court, Elizabeth Street, Syd-
ney. on the Bth day of December, 1958,
at 11 o’clock in the forenoon being the
time appointed for adjudicating upon
the claims and must then he prepared
to prove their claim by proper legal
evidence. A claimant not residing in
New South Wales must send with the
particulars of his or her claim the name
and address of a person in New South
Wales to whom notice to the claimant
can be sent. Claimants are advised to
send their particulars of claim by two
Air Mails,, at an interval of three or
four davs. —DATED this Seventh dav
August, 1958.—ROBILLIARD & ROBIL-
LIARD, Solicitors, 21 George Street,
Parramatta, New South Wales. Solicitors
for the abovenamed Plaintiff". WILFRED
BRUCE DIVE.
QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes o£
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Brunches and Agencies
throughout the World.
last minute, on the ruling that
an Essendon player had
deliberately kicked out. Col-
lingwood made absolutely sure
of a place in the finals, as well
as, with Fitzroy’s defeat,
strengthening its double-
chance prospects, by over-
coming Carlton 10.12-7.11. In
a real turn-up Footscray Bull-
dogs ate Fitzroy Lions
20.11-5.11 ; captain-coach Ted
Whitten was ’Scray’s match-
winner. Too late most likely
to do any good for itself
thereby, Hawthorn beat North
13.14-7.18, South beat St.
Kilda 15.9-9.23, and Richmond
Tigers outclassed Geelong
Cats 12.18-9.15.
“Atala”: North Adelaide, on
top of Adelaide’s premiership
table, lacks a top-class full-
forward, but supporters see a
good omen in that: North's
two post-war premierships
(1949 and 1952) were both
achieved without an established
full-forward. North is getting
plenty of goals, as when it
defeated Glenelg a couple of
weeks ago 22.13-9.9, putting
on 8.5 to nil in the last quarter.
Port Adelaide, certain of a
place in the finals though not
in its accustomed place at the
top of the table, is not the team
this year that it was in win-
ning the last four premier-
ships ; but it has had a lot of
injuries.
“Wilkie”: At time of
writing the “final four” in
Westralian football is wide
open. Subiaco. ’ Perth, South
Fremantle and Swans are dis-
puting fourth place. South,
which had eight men away .in
the State team, lost both its
games while the carnival was
being played in Melbourne.
With these eight back it is
desperately striving for the
four, and, if successful, will
make it tough for the other
finalists, but it would be ironic
if it missed out after hav-
ing had eight State reps, afield.
Perth has played in-and-out
football, losing one week to the
bottom team, Claremont (the
’Monts’ first win this year),
and beating the top team (West
Perth) on its home-ground the
next. This year, more than
ever, success has gone with the
form of the small men, the
rovers. With the flowing, play-
on game of Victoria coming
into vogue in the West, every
team, even with plenty of big,
strong ruckmen, has befen in
trouble without good service
from the nippy little men on
the fringes who can also kick
goals when resting up forward.
* * *
Four teams. Manly, East,
Gordon and St. George, are
level on match-points on top
of Sydney’s Rugby Union
table, and look certain
finalists; Randwick, the only
other team with any sort of
chance, must win its remain-
ing three games, while at the
same time one of the leaders
must lose all its three games—
a trifle unlikely. On Saturday
Randwick beat Manly 17-11;
St. George knocked out any
chance University still had,
14-10; Gordon whitewashed
Parramatta 27-0 ; East did like-
wise to Eastwood, 21-0; and
Drummoyne defeated North
14-8.
“Selja”: Only three mem-
bers of the 1955 Australian
Rugby Union team to N.Z.
are in this year's team —backs
Phelps and Stapleton and
breakaway John Thornett.
Two others, second-row for-
wards Miller and Emanuel,
would almost certainly have
gone again had they been
available. Five (still playing
in N.S.W.) were passed over
•—Burke, Roberts, Jim Cross,
Cameron and Pashley ; of the
five, Pashley must have been
closest to selection again. Of
the other 15 1955 tourists, eight
have retired (including skipper
Solomon, Shehadie, the two
.Phipps brothers and Keith
Cross), two (Tooth and
Hughes) are in England, and
the other five have either
retired or dropped out of top
football.
• • • •
“ Kanimbla ” : Australian
Rugby Union followers should
see plenty- of international
football in the next 10 years.
Next year a British Isles team
is due, and another in 1965;
A Fijian side may come here
in 1960. France is scheduled
to tour in 1961, and as French
Rugby Union is of the same
exciting brand as its Rugby
League this tour should give
a good stimulus to the code.
Later will come the All Blacks,
and in 1966 the Springboks.
* V #
For the second week in
succession Sydney Rugby
League's match of the day was
the thrash of the day, with
St. George both times doing
the thrashing. Last week it
pulverised Newtown 50-19.;
on Saturday North copped it,
38-7. West, runner-up at
present behind the Saints, was
very lucky to beat wooden-
spoon holder Parramatta 20-16,
South looked better than for
some time in defeating New-
town 23-15, Manly was just a
little too good for Canterbury,
15-10, .and, on Suriday,
Balmain was too good for
East, 19-9.
The N. S. Wales Rugby
League Colts to play England
tomorrow include some of
the code’s best potentials.
Nineteen-year-old policeman
John Raper goes in as lock
and should do a good job
there, and Brian Graham, full-
back, is an up-and-coming
champ. There are three coun-
try players in the side: D.
Parish (Wellington) for the
flank, and I. Fowler (Forbes)
and I. Walsh (Eugowra) with
the pigs.
Weekend round-up of foot-
ball and hockey: In Auckland
England tied its two-Test
rubber by defeating N.Z.
32-15 in the second Rugby
League Test; at Napier,
Hawkes Bay defeated the
Rugby Union Wallabies in
their opening game 8-6; at
Dunedin, at Soccer, Australia
beat South Island 3-0; in
Perth top hockey State W.A.
won outright the inter-State
carnival, with Victoria runner-
up, while in N.Z. Auckland
defeated the touring Australian
hockey-team 2-1 ; in Sydney,
at Rugby Union, G.P.S. I, as
it usually does, swept over
Combined High Schools 27-3,
Hawkesbury Agricultural Col-
lege beat G.P.S. II 8-0, and
G.P.S. 11l beat Waverley
Christian Brothers 15-13.
* * *
“Solomon”: The hockey
brothers Pearce and the hockey
sisters Pearce are not related
(B. 9/7/ ’5B). The Pearce boys
came to Westralia from India
some 10 years ago. The Pearce
sisters, May, Morna, Jean and
Tibby, are from an old farming
family at Moulyinning, in
south Westralia, 150 miles from
Perth. All four girls repre-
sented W.A., and a couple have
also played for Australia. Two
of the girls 7 brothers played
League football, Joe with
Swans and “Possum” with
Claremont.
* * *
“Cliffy”: There was an
earlier instance of a county
second-XI ’keeper tourihg with
an English XI (B. 6/8/’5B).
W. Farrimond, understudy to
George Duckworth in the
Lancashire county side, toured
both the West Indies and South
Africa with English teams, and
played in four Tests for
England.


Circular Chart* for all typo
of Recording Instrument*
♦or any class of Mach.nery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
ACCURACY GUARANTEED
JACti^rSO’SIiLUVANfM*-
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy A Moment of Time, by
Richard Hughes.—6734.
Copy of Gore Vidal’s Judgment
of Paris. —6735.
Sheet-music of Lang’s “Tuba
Tune.”—6736.
Information Supplied
The words of the poem begin-
ning: “In ’43 a Roman host from
Gaul assailed our southern coast”
appears in Outlines of English
History, by Henry Ince and James
Gilbert, published by W. Kent and
Co., London, in 1884. Any State
public library should have the
volume.
Information Sought
Details of the forthcoming
British Council Scholarships ?
The office of the High Commis-
sioner for the U.K., Canberra, has
announced British Council Scholar-
ships for the academic year
1959-60.
Applicants, preferably between
the ages of 25 and 35, should be
graduates of Australian universities;
the scholarships are available for
study or research in any field at a
recognised place of higher educa-
tion in the U.K.
Further information may be
obtained from the registrar of any
Australian university. Applications
must be lodged with the registrar
of the applicant’s own university
by Monday, September 8.
* * * »
What was the “Police Fund” in
the early days of A. S. Wales ?
When was its use discarded ?
“Police Fund” was a name applied
by Governor Macquarie to revenue
raised within the colony. It aimed
at supporting the police-force, and
was raised mainly from duties, tolls
and Customs charges!
Previously, Governors Hunter
and King, in attempts to raise funds
locally to augment the sums sup-
plied by the British Treasury for
the maintenance of the colony, had
imposed a duty on spirits, using the
proceeds principally to support a
school for orphans. Later a duty
was collected on all imported goods;
part of the extra revenue was
allotted for the upkeep of the jails
at Sydney and Parramatta.
In 1810 Macquarie decided to
institute the “Colonial Police
Fund.” His idea was approved by
the Colonial Secretary in London;
a committee was appointed to
manage the Police Fund, and
D’Arcy Wentworth became its
treasurer. Macquarie used the fund
to build watchhouses, to construct
and maintain wharves, roads and
bridges, to pay the salaries of
various officials and for many other
purposes, eg., rewarding G. W.
Evans for his discoveries west of
the Blue Mountains.
The fund seems to have lost its
identity whe(n Macquarie’s term
ended; under Governor Darling the
British Government, while continu-
ing to support the cost of the
convict establishments, ordered that
the civil establishment be paid for
out of colonial revenues.
* * * *
Who was the founder of Aus-
tralia’s first medical school ?
George Britton Halford. Born
in Sussex, England, on November
26, 1824, he began studying medi-
cine in 1842, became a member
of the Royal College of Physicians
in 1851 and of the Royal College
of Surgeons in 1852. He got his
Doctorate of Medicine at St.
Andrew’s in 1854, and, after prac-
tising at Liverpool, he was in 1857
appointed lecturer in anatomy at
the Grosvenor-place School of
Medicine, London.
When applications were called
for the professorship of anatomy,
physiology and pathology at the
University of Melbourne in 1862
Halford was described as “one of
“My word, Doctor, there's a few bob's-Worth of tax-deductions here!"
the most distinguished experimental
physiologists of the day”; he was
appointed, and arrived in Melbourne
on December 1862.
He began with only three
students, which in the following 15
years increased to about 70; his
work was at its peak in 1882, when
H. B. Allen joined him as professor
of descriptive and surgical anatomy
and pathology. Halford’s most
brilliant research-work was on the
heart. He died at Inverloch (Vic.)
on May 27, 1910.
* * * *
Was the first Prince of Wales
born in Carnarvon Castle ?
Legend says that Edward II (the
first English Prince of Wales) was
born there; visitors are still shown
the Eagle Tower in which the birth
took place and the castle-gates at
which the infant was displayed to
the Welsh people by his father,
Edward I, in fulfilment of a pro-
mise that he would give them a
prince “who was born in Wales and
cannot speak a word of English.”
There i§ no evidence to support
the story. It seems likely that
Edward II was born in Carnarvon
town, but not in the castle; cer-
tainly not in the Eagle Tower, which
was not built until many years later.
Nor was he presented to the Welsh
people as a babe on a shield —as
depicted in the famous painting.
He was 18 when he was created
Prince of Wales in 1301.
• * * •
The flash of the latest US.
nuclear-explosion was reported to
have been clearly seen in Hawaii,
several hundred miles from the
scene of- the test. Is this likely ?
No reason to doubt it. Accord-
ing to reports the device was
detonated at a great height, which
would have increased the range of
visibility. Sheet-lightning has been
observed as far as 250 miles from
the actual site of the thunderstorm
causing it; it is the reflection of
so - called zigzag - lightning from
clouds or from the sky above them.
* * * *
(1) What are the obligations and
the status of officers on the Reserve
of Officers List, Eastern Command ?
(2) How about officers on the
Retired List ?
(1) Officers put on the Reserve
of Officers List become officers of
the Reserve Citizen Military Forces,
and as such are liable to service in
time of war, and to any other
prescribed service.
Seniority is according to rank
and the date of such rank, but
officers are junior to all officers
of similar rank on the Active List.
On switching to -the Active List
from the Reserve of Officers, Army
and regimental seniority is generally
determined by the date of appoint-
ment. Officers on the Reserve
must report their addresses annually
in January or February to Head-
quarters, Eastern Command. Any
change of address must b£ reported;
an officer who fails to do this may
be retired.
As far as status goes, Reserve
Officers must not use the title of
their military rank in connection
with any business, trade or calling,
or in correspondence or other docu-
ments, except in the course of
military duty, when “R. of O.”
is added to the signature. Officers
may be addressed, whether in writ-
ing or by the title of
their military rank; they may use
their title on private visiting-cards
when “R. of O.” is added, but
not on business-cards.
(2) Officers on the Retired List
have a military title, but are not
members of the Military Forces
and have no right to command.
They do not come within the defini-
tion of an “officer” under the
Defence Act, and have no commis-
sion or liability other than to
notify their addresses annually to
Headquarters, Eastern Command.
They may be called-up for service
in any rank or capacity in time
of war.
These officers have the privilege
of a courtesty military title granted
them when placed on the List, and
the same rules of use apply, as in
the case of the Reserve of Officers.
Retired List officers may wear the
uniform of the corps with which
they were serving immediately
prior to retirement only when
attending authorised parades, cere-
monies or entertainments of an
official military nature.
• * • *
(1) Is it correct that former
cricketers V. Y. Richardson and
J. H. Fingleton each made two
ducks in his last Test ? (2) If so,
how were they dismissed ?
(1) Not exactly. Richardson did
get a “pair” in his last Test against
England (the fifth Test in 1932-33),
but he later led the 1935-36 Aus-
tralians to South Africa, and,
though not particularly successful,
did “break his duck” in each of his
Test-innings there, making 45 in the
fifth Test, his last. Fingleton’s last
Test was the fifth Test against Eng-
land in 1938, when, during
England’s mammoth score of
7-903, both he and Bradman injured
themselves in the field and neither
was able to bat in either Australian
innings. (Fingleton, however, had
earlier got a “pair,” in the third
1932-33 Test against England.) (2)
Richardson—c. Jardine, b. Larwood;
c. Allen, b. Larwood. Fingleton—
c. Ames, b. Allen; fcr. Larwood.
Brief Answers
“H.”: When sending the settle-
ment cheque to a beneficiary, an
executor never includes a state-
ment of the costs of administration.
N.T.: Roses grown on briar
slock are superior to those grown
from cuttingsthey are stronger,
will better withstand adverse
weather conditions, and are more
likely to survive transplanting. The
reason for budding is that a wider
range of varieties can be more
easily handled, and, if necessary,


Uaiffli in iAe
\
An Australian has only to go into the
turbulent world optside to be reminded of the
blessings we enjoy in our own country.
Violence is remote from us; fear is compara-
tively unknown. There are, certainly, the personal
strains to be met —aild those individual and
collective, problems inseparable from the building
of a big country.
But there are also the rewards, in security and
standards which hundreds of millions in the world
have never known.
My travels have taken me through South-east
Asia, into which is crowded half the world’s
population, and many of them subsisting in want
and misery. Then my path led to areas of Asia
Minor, where human history had its known
beginnings; where I saw unearthed in excavations
in the ancient city of Jericho fragments of civilisa-
tions lost in the layers of time. In that, too, there
is a lesson.
Across in Europe, differently conveyed but as
clear and distinguishable as in Asia, the sounding
of today’s world is to be found in a word:
Survival. * . < .• , .
And wherever I have gone the sarme thought
has presented itself: that we in Australia will need
to face up more and more to the realities of our
time; profiting as we may from the past, improving
as we can on the present, but making certain of our
place in the future by giving our country that extra
thrust which will take it on past today and into
tomorrow.
Faith will carry us far, but of itself it is not
enough. It has to be backed by vigour and purpose
—and by a sense of responsibility to ourselves and
to the rest of mankind.
In a world in which the human factor is rising
with the passing of every year, in which want has
to be reduced, our very possession of a continent
is a test and a challenge. And in proving ourselves
worthy to hold and enjoy it there is going to be no
substitute for live, active performance.
y
more then are budded on the same
stock... .N.R.V.: Lime near your
rhododendron might have killed if ;
lime is also lethal to -azaleas....
H.M.D.: The card-game “quinze”
is a variation of vingt-et-un, the
chief difference being that the object
is to make 15 instead of 21.
. ...J.M.M.: Afraid you’ll have
to let them keep^it.... M.R.M.:
Consult a taxation-expert and see
whether you should approach the.
Income-tax Department,...“Sub-
scriber” No difference; zebu have
probably been bred selectively for
Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims which state the
section in which paragraphs
appear and the date of
appearance will be paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
several centuries to produce an
animal able to - thrive under very
severe conditions. The hump of
the zebu types, absent in Bos taunts
cattle, is a store of fat "-which pro-
vides additional energy in unfavor-
able times. In many desert animals
oxidation of this fat produces rela-
tively large amounts of metabolic
water, useful in arid conditions.
... -8. W.: Write Mr. F. Saunders,
Cairns Amateur Fishing Clubs
Association, Box 271, Cairns,-North
Queensland T.H.M.: You could
try Tyrrell's Pty., Ltd., 202 George
St'seet, Sydney G.H.: Hard to
say how much the instrument would
be worth; suggest you write to
Martin Long, “The Sydney Morn-
ing Herald,” Wattle Street, Broad-
way, Sydney J.W.W.: The
Bulletin Reciter is, as you say, hard
to come by; Sydney Book Club,
89 Castle: eagh Street, Sydney, may
be able to help you... .R. 8.:
Impossible to say whether the poem
has any commercial value without
having seen it. Why not send it in?
. ...X.X.: Nothing known of the
name “waggamba.” Try
Queensland' Historical Society,
G.P.O. Box 1811 W., Brisbane....
E.M.: Details too vague for any
information to .be obtained
C.H.: The booklet Sub-soiling by
Explosives has been out of print
for many years. This practice is
no longer recommended owing to
extreme, variability in effect and high
cost. Charges need to be closely
spaced with intervals of not more
than 6ft. Deep-ripping has been
found to give better results
G. 8.: Value of the home property
of the pensioner is disregarded
whilst it i.s the pensioner’s per-
manent home. If the property is
subdivided to provide a dwelling
for another person or persons, the
value of that portion of the property
which could not be considered as
the • pensioner’s home would be
taken into consideration in the
assessment of the pension. But
it is possible for pensioners to let
rooms within the home property,
the- rooms to be considered as part
of the pensioner’s home. Any
income received from letting
rooms or portion of the home
is not assessed as “income” for
pension purposes, and will not
affect pension-rate... .F.A.P.: (1)
Britain’s Navy Estimates (1954-55)
totalled £340,500,000; Army Esti-
mates (1954-55) were £535,000,100;
Air Estimates for the same period,
£491,640,000. U.S. expenditure, as
listed under “Major National
Security” for fiscal year 1954, was
$46,522 million. (Figures from
1956 Whitaker's Almanac .) (2).
No figures available for the U.S.S.R.
(3) Not known for certain. In
April this year the U.S. Atomic
Energy Commission, in confirming
seven previously unannounced test-
shots in the Pacific, brought the
number of known American nuclear
explosions to 97. In this year’s
series there have been 14 or 15
nuclear explosions, including the
most recent, the historic nuclear
weapon shot-up in a missile and
exploded on “the edge of space.”
As quoted in April, Russia is
believed to have staged about 55
nuclear explosions and Britain some
19 or 20... .L.G.: As far as is known,
no council in N.SAV. is attempting
to handle nightsoil and garbage for
composting purposes. Canterbury
Council has been treating garbage
along these lines, but nightsoil is
not a component... .E.M.H.:
Slipped wings are common in Mus-
covy ducks, and are an inherent
weakness in some strains. The
condition is aggravated by inbreed-
ing, but mere outcrossing will not
rectify the position. Select only
those birds free from this defect
for breeding - purposes.... 8.M.:
Write to Mr. J. A. O’Connor,
A.J.A. Secretary, Victoria District,
145 Collins Street, Melbourne.
... .J.McG.: Thanks for informa-
tion.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
A ame and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluruar v
submitted; and -no MS. wilt be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered }or publication on the
understanding that they .may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
J.H.: Far too fanciful....
M. 8.: Strings too obvious in “The
Puppet”... .C.C.H.: Try for a more
convincing development of minor
characters... .M.H.: Obliged to
resist that “pearly-skinned Chloe,
poured like champagne into, a strap-
less evening-frock"... .T.N.: You
have extraordinary fluency with
long words, but that's about all.
. ...F.C.: Stick to football....
5.8. M.: It needs a lot of pruning.
. ...C.W.: It managed to limp as
far as the w.p.b K.G.: The
ballerina could do with a pair of
new shoes... .W.F.P.: Its‘value is
in its honesty, but the construction
is p00r.... V. 1.: A good one for
Tin Pan A11ey.... D.D.: Tough-
guy hero overdrawn... .Y.F.:
Make a precis of it and it might
pass... .G.C.8.: “Yon,” “eftsoons”
and- “prithee” .are verily suspect.
... .N.S.: Bearded -swaggie refused
lodgings A.L.: Put in a cool.
dark place for .30 years to mature.
....Q.M.: James Fenimore Cooper
did that sort of thing much better.
. ...R.T.: Apart from a bad simile
in the fourth stanza, not too rusty.
Rely more bn direct observation.
. ...E.M.: Yes, but the plot has
been done to death... .B.B.:
Creeps along like a peak-hour bus.
....P.L.: That murderer would
have made his fortune in a two-
reel comedy... .J.N.: “The Gift
Horse” was looked in the mouth,
slapped on the rump, and was last
seen clopping tiredly off in the
general direction of the G.P.O
F.F.: Pathetic.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
CYPRUS ROUND-UP
C|ir Hugh Foot’s mass arrests
of Greek and Turkish
Cypriots was accepted by the
London press as a regrettable
but necessary measure. The
“Daily Telegraph” felt that the
action was the fruit of delay—
the result of hesitating between
two risks —the danger that
mounting strife might wreck
the chances of the two races
getting together in peaceful
discussions and the danger
that military action to stop
bloodshed might have the same
effect:
“Sir Hugh Foot has held
back until the eleventh hour
—some will fear beyond it —
before taking drastic measures
of repression. Directed against
the guilty, they will weigh
heavily also on the innocent,
even though taken for their
protection It was right to
make this effort; though now
we must recognise that during
the period of relaxation that
has proved politically fruitless
Eoka was able to reassemble
its shattered terrorist organisa-
tion.
“Are we then back where
we were two years ago? Back
to the barbed-wire and deten-
tion-camps, the curfew and the
combing of mountain hide-
outs —and as far as ever from
political settlement? In one
respect the situation is indeed
worse: Turkish terrorism has
arisen to match Greek. But
although this has brought
Cyprus to the edge of civil war
and must now make doubly
difficult the task of the security
forces, it has provoked a clari-
fication that could make a
solution on the lines of the
British plan ultimately easier.
Turkish terrorists as well as
Greek have now been rounded-
up ; and their organisation,
T.M.T., has been proscribed
like Eoka. This absolves Sir
Hugh Foot and the British
Government of the charge,
persistently . made by the
Greeks, that we favor the
Turks at their expense.
“W hate v e r Archbishop
Makarios may pretend, it must
now be plain beyond any mis-
representation to both sides
that our sole and resolute
purpose is to keep them from
each other’s throats and pre-
serve the peace of the island.
We are not going to sacrifice
either to the other ; and,. as
the Middle East crisis must
have emphasised—with especial
force upon Turkey—we are
not going to abandon Cyprus
in the forseeable future.
With this determination so
plainly established, may it not
be hoped that the Greek and
Turkish Governments will now
help to restrain their respective
Cypriot communities from
vain violence?”
* * *
“Manchester Ouardia n”:
“Cyprus is on the brink of
civil war—the Governor at his
press conference yesterday
even implied that it had already
begun. A hundred Cypriots
have been killed since the
beginning of last month —over
half of them in the past fort-
night. Murder, and the fear
and hatred it breeds, acquire
their own momentum; it is
better for hundreds or perhaps
thousands of potential victims
that those who plan to use it
as a means of gaining their
ends should be put in intern-
ment for a time until the
danger is past. The Govern-
ment of Cyprus has acted only
prudently, therefore, in round-
ing-up suspects. No doubt
there are innocent people
among them, and it is to be
hoped they will be sorted out
as soon as possible. But inno-
cent people would certainly be
among those killed if the
slaughter went on. All the
same, necessary as the intern-
ments may be, they will add
to the difficulty of reaching
even a provisional settlement
on the island.. . .The action
taken by the Governor is the
sort that causes resentment on
both sides; those who benefit
are usually inarticulate. The
effect of this negative act
(necessary though it may have
been) must be neutralised with
positive policy. For instance,
it might be a convenient time,
now that the trouble-makers
on both sides are out of the
way, to invite Archbishop
Makarios back to the island.”
* * *
To the Edinburgh “Scots-
man” the position is as grim
as it has ever been and
Makarios’s ability to control
Eoka, “even if he were to use
London “Daily .Mail"
“FIREMEN, SAVE MY CHILD!”
all his authority to bring about
peace,” more doubtful than
ever:
“The G overnor’s new
measures, including the restric-
tions on communications, are
necessary and inevitable. It
is absolutely essential that
violence must be stopped.
“The recent violence has not
been directed to anything
which can be called a political
end. It seems rather to spring
from fear and anger and to
have become an absurd end in
itself. The Governor can take
necessary measures to control
it by police methods. But
before the state of mind which
produces it can be changed,
it is necessary that incitement
should cease and that moderat-
ing pressure should be brought
on the two communities from
the countries which they regard
as their spiritual homes. It is
difficult to determine how far
the Government has followed
up the announcement of its
proposals for Cyprus diplo-
matically in Athens and
Ankara or within the circle of
Nato.
“One of the best hopes of
ultimately bringing the people
of the island to the full recog-
nition of the futility of
violence and of ending their
fears is by mobilising pressure
on Greece and Turkey through
Nato.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post”: “Every
law - abiding inhabitant of
Cyprus (and this means the
overwhelming majority of the
population) knows perfectly
well that the peril will grow
now in proportion as the
British weaken their grip on
terrorism. Every law-abiding
Cypriot is aware that more
vigorous measures, such as Sir
Hugh Foot has now adopted,
can alone stave off a blood-
bath beside which what has
gone before would look trivial.
The whole outlook has changed
since the Greeks and Turks
began to fly at one another’s
throats. This deeply disturb-
ing transformation not only
justifies Sir Hugh Foot’s drastic
policy but makes it imperative.
Until the campaign of terror-
ism can be reduced hopes of
discussions leading to a settle-
ment remain futile.
“For this reason the state-
ment issued yesterday by the
Labor party’s National Execu-
tive, though admirable in spirit,
is 1 painfully unrealistic in
many respects. The Labor
party is to be congratulated
upon issuing an urgent appeal
both to Greek and Turkish
Cypriots to bring the wave of


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charier A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia: F. H. F.gerton,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Manager for Australia.
destruction to an immediate
end. But it shows a lack of
grasp of the situation when
it also calls upon the British
Government ‘to bring together
representatives of all sections
of the Cypriot people to dis-
cuss plans for the creation of
self-governing institutions at
the earliest possible moment.’
“If the Greek and Turkish
Cypriots and the Greek and
Turkish Governments would
only respond to the appeal for
the restoration of a peaceful
atmosphere, we should all be
profoundly grateful. But until
such a response is forthcoming,
and until peace-loving people
in both the Greek and Turkish
camps can control those ele-
ments in the island who ‘ at
present seem beyond the reach
of reason, the prospect of
bringing together all sections
of the Cypriot people in
constructive talks remains
extremely remote.”
Query on Kuwait
Since the revolution in Iraq
there has been much conjec-
ture as to the future of Kuwait,
the fabulously rich oil sheikh-
dom at the head of the Persian
Gulf. When it was reported
a fortnight ago that the ruler
of Kuwait had been' holding
chats with Nasser in Syria,
U.K. newspapers rightly
assumed that they had not
merely been discussing the
Koran. The Edinburgh “Scots-
man” saw Nasser as a Nile
crocodile welcoming little
fishes in with gently smiling
jaws. It commented that the
Yemen was one of the little
fishes, Lahej possibly another,
and that Kuwait would be “a
rich and gleaming scale that
the Nile crocodile would gladly
acquire”;
“The position of the ruler of
Kuwait in this matter is
anomalous, to say the least of
it. Though nominally inde-
pendent, the - Sheikhdom of
Kuwait has long been under
the protection of Britain, which
is by treaty responsible for its
foreign relations. And Kuwait
is the creation of the British
and American oil-companies.
“This tiny country, with a
population of only some
250,000, is now the source of
more than half of Britain’s
imports of oil, and production
is being rapidly increased.
Moreover, the £B-million oil-
pier now being built there is
designed to take the new super-
tankers which can allow us
[Britain] to bypass the Suez
London “Daily Express”
SUMMIT? WHAT THEY REALLY NEED IS A PLATEAU.
Canal. This oil has brought
extraordinary riches to Kuwait.
These fabulous revenues have
been used wisely to create such
a concentration of welfare,
housing and educational pro-
jects as is without parallel in the
East. The State of Kuwait
spends more money on the
education of a boy than is laid-
out here on sending a lad to
Eton.
“Oil is the be-all and the
end-all of Kuwait. All that
must be put in the balance
against the smile of Nasser. It
is surely a measure of the
strength of Arab nationalistic
feeling that the ruler of Kuwait
can even contemplate a flirta-
tion with Nasser. Or can it
be that Kuwait hopes to have
it both ways? Indeed, must
we not now begin to think
whether the time is approach-
ing when we will have to let
the Arab oil countries have it
both ways, and seek to come
to a new understanding with
the increasingly potent urge to
Arab unity?”
* * *
Remarking that although
oniy 5800 square-miles in area,
Kuwait contains over 20 per
cent, of the world’s oil-
reserves and is second only to
Venezuela as an oil-exporting
country, a correspondent in
the “Financial Times” said:
“What is Kuwait's relation-
ship with the U.K.? In 1914
—on the outbreak of war with
Turkey—the U.K. recognised
Kuwait as an independent
State under British protection.
“In foreign affairs, the ruler
of Kuwait can go where he
chooses and talk with whom
he chooses. However, when
it comes to a signed agreement
between Kuwait and another
State, the ruler ‘consults’ the
U.K. Government. The U.K.
Government maintains an
agent in Kuwait and a Politi-
cal Resident in the Persian
Gulf as a whole.
“The Kuwait Oil Company
—jointly owned by B.P. and
Gulf Oil of the U.S.—is cur-
rently paying the ruler of
Kuwait about £llO million
in royalties. It is believed that
about one-third of this is
invested —by the Kuwait
Investment Board, which was
set-up in 19o3—another third
goes to the ruler and his family
and the remaining third is
devoted to the Kuwaiti people.
“The man to whom K.O.C.
pays the £llO million is Sheikh
Abdullah-as-Salim - as - Sabah,
who has been ruler since 1950
and is in his early sixties. Oil
revenues started to come in
during 1946, and development
programmes for schools,
housing and hospitals were
already under way when the
present ruler’s cousin, Sheikh
Ahmad-as-Jabir-as-Sabah, was
ruler. Nonetheless, the large-
scale development in Kuwait
is normally regarded as Sheikh
Abdullah’s own policy.
“No accurate estimate can
be made of the amount of
money which has gone into
the development plans. Sheikh
Abdullah stated when he took
over as ruler in 1950 that he
intended to make Kuwait
Town the ‘best and happiest’
in the Middle East. The
Kuwait Government supplies
free education and medical
services, and Kuwaitis can go
abroad on generous grants to
continue their studies. Roads,
schools, hospitals and new
houses have figured promin-
ently in the development pro-
gramme. The members of the
civil service and the Army are
highly paid, and, indeed, it
has been the ruler's policy that
every Kuwaiti should have the
chance of employment at a
high salary.
“Sheikh Abdullah is a
deeply religious man of the
Sunni Moslem sect, as are


■
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A “must” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
most of his subject s.
Westerners who have dealt
with him state that he has an
astute grasp of essentials and
that he is quick to point out
weaknesses in his advisers’
proposals. He is also a tough
bargainer, as an oil agreement
signed with Japan in May
shows.
“But the Sheikh has not
shown any inclination towards
accepting Western political
ideas.
“Due largely to the Sheikh’s
enlightened educational policy,
there has been a considerable
growth in Kuwait of political
ideas normally associated with
President Nasser. Sheikh
Abdullah has had to depend
to a large extent on Egyptian
teachers for his schools, and,
although the ruler claims that
Egyptian teachers do not dis-
seminate Egyptian ideas, this
is to be doubted.
“A few months ago it was
reported that the ruler of
Kuwait was inclining towards
membership of the Iraq-
Jordan Federation, and that
an invitation had been made
to him to join the Federation
“on equal terms.” Nothing
materialised, and whatever
the reason for this —no secret
was made of the fact that
opinion in Kuwait generally
was against joining the Federa-
tion—largely because such a
move was regarded as an
attempt to aid and protect
‘outmoded institutions.’
“This same attitude,- of
course, is relevant to the
present system of government
in Kuwait. It seems that the
Kuwaitis are not very inter-
ested in sharing the wealth
of their country with other
Arab States, but it would be
New York “Herald-Tribune”
NEW GUIDE TO WORLD CONQUEST.
useless to deny that there is a
considerable amount of
admiration for President
Nasser and his policy, and a
demand for a greater say in
government of Kuwait.”
ije ♦ *
“Manchester Guardian” took
a dim view of a censorship
apparently imposed by the
Head of Public Security in
Kuwait, acting-ruler, in the
absence of Sheikh Abdullah:
“A number of newspapers, the
‘Manchester Guardian’ among
them, wish to send corre-
spondents to Kuwait. But the
Government of the sheikhdom
has forbidden the issue of entry
permits to journalists, and those
already there are not allowed
to cable dispatches. This is
a timely illustration of the
obsolete relationship between
a relationship which has con-
tributed largely to the present
crisis. The decision to hide
from the eyes of the world what
is happening in Kuwait was
presumably taken —though this
is not entirely clear-—by the
acting-ruler, the formidable
Sheikh Abdullah Mubarak, for
it is an internal affair.
“But no matter how illiber-
ally the ruler or his representa-
tive acts, Britain is responsible
for his protection, and will
doubtless get the blame. Who-
ever took the decision, it is
thoroughly bad. The world
will as usual assume that the
Kuwait Government, if not the
Britain and its Arab clients —
British Government, has some-
thing to hide ; unfortunately
that may come to be true.
“For one thing, nearly half
the population is from Syria,
Egypt, Palestine, and other
lands where enthusiasm for
President Nasser has a firm
hold, and in the present
inflamed state of Arab opinion
anything might happen. For
that very reason the world, and
particularly we in Britain,
should be fully informed —and
only journalists on the spot can
do the job.
“Balanced judgments are
more than ever needed if we
are to emerge from the present
difficulties with a sound policy
for the future, and it will be
impossible to arrive at them if
people are deprived of the
essential facts.”
Pointing out that the reason
the Sheikh was in Syria was
that his summer palace in
Lebanon was unsafe this
summer, the “Economist” saw
no reason to assume that he
had promised Nasser anything,
though it admitted that a state-
ment made in Cairo by the
chairman of the Kuwait
Advisory Council, to the effect
that Kuwait would object to
any concentration of foreign
troops on its soil, “had an un-
usually ominous sound”:
“Kuwait is a very desirable
partner for anyone. It has
more oil per square-foot than
any place in the world. Not
only is it desirable, it is worth
fighting for; and to forestall
any trouble there the British
Government has sent troops to
Bahrain to keep watch only
on hour away by air. Trouble
could come in various ways.
Egyptian troops, assisted by the
siren call of Cairo radio, could
make a straightforward attempt
to steal the valuable property.
There is great enthusiasm for
Nasser- among the now
numerous Egyptian, Syrian and
Palestinian inhabitants of
Kuwait. Iraqi troops could
come in from Basra with the
same objective, but at the
moment they may be too busy
at home to embark on a
foreign adventure even on
one only 40 miles away.
“An internal uprising,
possibly led by some dissident
member of the ruling family,
might attempt to oust the
ruler and cancel the treaty with
Britain. The United States and
British Governments, however,
are in agreement that the status
quo in Kuwait must be pre-
served. Should troops have to
land there, it is likely that they
would stay longer than they
mean to stay in either Lebanon
or Jordan.”


Put
v-'
in your engine
this Winter
To get this Spring performance, drain OUT the “Summer-worked”
oil NOW and refill with Castrolite or Castrol XL Motor Oil.
Consider the outstanding advantages of Castrol Super Grade motor oils , « «
1. Quicker cold weather starts.
2. Greatly reduced drain on battery.
3. Decreased petrol consumption more miles per gallon through better engine performance.
4. Decreased oil consumption longer periods between ‘topping up*.
5. Smoother running greater film strength.
6. Greater protection of engine parts, decreasing wear and necessity for engine overhauls.
7. Increased power with smoother quicker get-a-way.
8. Spring performance all Winter through.
There is a Castrol Super-Grade Motor-oil for every make and model op car •
Castrol The finest oil money can buy .
CASTROL
SUPER-GRADES
Castrohte
CASTROI" XL
Produces of C. C. Wakefield & Co* ted. Specialists in Lubrication
M
~
SZ
a
m
<h.
v*
£- "■
- -
m
s
"• ->-«.
Cl 9


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Bert Hinkler’s Plane
As the proud owner of two
Avro-Avians, allow me to set
“Myall” (B. 9/7/’5B) on the
right track regarding Bert
Hinkler’s plane.
First, the Avro is fully
weatherproofed and preserved
inside and out. The glued
joints will be in poor condition
but will hardly need remaking,
as Bert's machine has been
stored in the Museum. One of
my machines has flown over
1400 official hours and has been
forced-down in bad weather for
days at a time, yet the glued
joints didn't need too much
repair. The wood inside the
wings will probably retain its
original varnish.
In stating that the plane
is made of “fabric over a light
framework” surely “Myall” is
thinking of the metal-monieque
type of plane, where the metal
skin makes the machine, e.g.
the Douglas DC3 or the
Holden car (chassis-less con-
struction).
The Tiger Moth is similar to
the Avro, but has steel-tubing
instead of the Avro’s spruce
in the fuselage. I’ve had a go
at every aerobatic manoeuvre
in the Tiger; hundreds of
pilots will support me in recom-
mending its four - square
solidity.
With the Avro, you pull out
four pins and the wings fold
back neatly into the fuselage.
Attach the tail to your car and
drive carefully out to the
’drome. You can remove the
wings in 30mins. and re-rig
her in a few hours.
I once thought of trying to
get Bert’s Avro, but realised this
lo be impossible: hundreds
know this machine, and it
would hardly be fair to remove
from the sight of so many this
great little girl.
Why can’t Bundaberg get a
collection of all Bert’s stuff,
his Avro Baby, his two-engined
seaplane and all his design-
work? There are plenty of
Avros around to display
any good carpenter can build
one. Should the committee
want to construct an Avian. I
would be only too pleased to
lend my machine and drawings
and give them parts, such as a
motor.
Yes, “Myall,” these are my
own experiences with Avros.
I don’t know who the air
authorities are, but I for one
would like to see the museum
keep Hinkler’s plane. —A.
Lewis, Jordan Avon, Jericho
(Q-).
TV and Housing
The forest of TV-masts and
cars at the Hargrave Park
(Sydney) Housing Settlement
seems to highlight the need for
constructive action on the part
of the Government in relation
to the housing-problem.
One can’t help being
impressed at the obvious air
“It's not a bad pub, but it has no atmosphere ."
of permanency about some
of the “flats” there with their
home-made fences as enclo-
sures for cars.
The Government would do
better to let people live in
“temporary” accommodation
and Housing Commission
homes free, compelling them
to bank £3-£4 weekly with the
Housing Commission for a
period of up to four years.
This amount could then be
applied as a deposit for a
purchase of a non-Government-
built home. Thus the Govern-
ment would lose a large
administrative burden, and
the fund could be paid into
the Rural Bank, which could
widely expand its home-
building finance-programme.
This scheme would, of
course, meet criticism from
the more thrifty young people
who save for a home before
marriage, but in the long-run
it would be far less of a mill-
stone round the. general public’s
neck than the present set-up. —-
Tidak Makan (N.S.W.).
Lean Lamb
It’s a bit rough that Aus-
tralian housekeepers are obliged
to pay-out for a lot of fat on
the meat. This especially
applies to lamb.
Surely fat-lamb breeders
could give us good-quality
meat with less fat? I under-
stand pig-breeders can market
carcasses with a minimum of
fat. — Pall Mall (N.S.W.).
Land and Living
Humphrey Kempe, one of
Australia’s ablest practical
farmers, author of The
Astonished Earth, reviewed in
B. 21/5/’5B, doesn’t agree with
those who claim that the world
will eventually be faced by a
shortage of food (B. 16/7/’5B).
Kempe says that in the light
of known and promising trends
of agricultural enlightenment
there is no likelihood of
running-out of arable or
pasture-land. He says there
may be some truth in the pre-
dictions of those who think
we are becoming short of land
already provided with services
or handy to transport: but
“our land has only begun to
produce ; its agricultural power-
output or potential is immense.”
Kempe points to a good rain-
fall area of three - million
acres in eastern Australia as
a typical facet of the changing
picture: trace-elements and
clover will ultimately make
large areas available for culti-
vation. In fact, he considers the
possibilities of improving
present production “vast.”
These remarks apply to other
countries besides Australia. In
the more thickly-populated
European and Asian countries
there is still much uncultivated
land, and production in culti-
vated areas could, in most
cases, be greatly stepped-up by
improved methods. Kempe
holds that vastly increased pro-
duction would follow the
general adoption of irrigation,
even in good rainfall areas.
“A little more than half of
one per cent, of the world’s
soil produces irrigated crops,”
he says, “but their aggregate
yield approaches one-third of
the total food produced. In
the U.S.A., to cope with the
anticipated population-rise, the
total area of spray-irrigation is
now increasing at the rate of
upwards of half-a-million acres
each year.”
Several leading figures in
British agriculture, including
Lord Northbourne, author of
Look to the Land, have said
that the U.K. could feed, from
its own resources, a population
at least as large as the present
one, if the land were cultivated
more intensively. Cunedda
(Vic.).
Church Music
As an organ-student and
follower of church - music
generally, I’d like to know why
there is such a legacy of poor
music still being dished-out to
congregations.
The paths of musical learn-
ing are open —through interest
or ability it is possible to
follow courses of study in most
branches of the art. This
makes it doubly puzzling why,
in the Anglican church, senti-
mental Victorian rubbish is
still partly in vogue, and in


helps the
businessman
N.
6
.
COv>
The facilities and services of this bank can help the
businessman to solve his problems in a practical way.
Should he travel in this country or abroad, the bank
can help with itineraries and bookings, trade introductions
and many other aids to businessmen.
The friendly advice of
experienced officers in all
departments is available to
C.B.C. customers.
Modern procedure
makes the operation of a
savings account with the
C.B.C. Savings Bank a
simple matter for any
member of a family.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANY
the Roman church Cary’s
masses, all semi-tonal sugar,
have so many adherents. One
has only to look at Palestrina
to see how fortunate Roman
Catholics are in their musical
tradition, and Anglicans can
boast the great English school
of Elizabethan composers—■
Tye, Wilbye, Morley, Gibbons,
Weelkes and others. There
seems to be no excuse except
laziness; if the best is avail-
able, why use the second-rate?
I realised some of these
points lately when I played the
organ at a big Catholic service
in a fine, modern church which
should have had music to
match. But, no ; we had one
of Alphonse Cary’s climactic
gems, plus a musically ques-
tionable ode the composer of
which I prefer to forget.
Admitted, the settings for
Offertory, Communion, etc.,
by Tozer, were rather good,
but they formed a mere frag-
ment of the total service.
The criterion of church-
music is straightforward logic
combined with non-sentimen-
tality. . Short, interesting
anthems of the type to be
found in the Ley and Walford-
Davies Church Anthem Book
are well within the range of
most choirs prepared to give
a bit of thought to the job.
Personally I’d like to see carols
adopted; there are over 200,
for all seasons of the year, in
the Oxford Book of Carols.
Relatively easy to learn, and
of considerable charm, they
would be many times
better than the involved, dull,
Victorian cathedral- anthems
so often aired in suburban
churches. — Organist (Q.).
The U.N. and Us
Why is it that “Ex-ACT” (B
25/6/’5B) and a number of
others seem to regard the U.N.
as “those foreigners over
there”? Doesn’t “Ex-ACT”
know that Australia is a
member of the World Organisa-
tion, and is represented on at
least three of the principal
organs of that body?
The easiest way to ensure
information is correctly dis-
seminated is to keep an eye on
it at its source; i.e., in the
U.N. Secretariat where informa-
tion is compiled. Australia is
entitled to a quota of nationals
in the secretariat but never
seems to fill it.
There can be no doubt that
this indifference towards the
U.N. on the part of Canberra
indicates that our membership
is regarded as a legacy from
the Opposition. Hence, we
have politicians, not statesmen.
—Trustee (Q.).
N.S.W. Railways Morale
Morale in the N.S.W. Rail-
ways is very low, result-
ing in a slackening in efficiency.
The great majority of em-
ployees are capable and con-
scientious, but they are losing
their sense of security, the
greatest advantage of any
public-service employment.
The Ebasco report cost
N.S.W. a lot of money. It is
doubtful if it reveals anything
that past and present employees
have not stressed, and it is even
more doubtful if the report will
ever be fully acted on, even
though the dieselisation and
electrification recommenda-
tions appear to be receiving
attention. The almost certain
disruption of the running-staffs
is perhaps the inevitable price
of progress, but it does seem
there will be hardships. Men
with long service and estab-
lished homes face the dismal
prospect of unwanted transfers
to less-favorable areas, with
consequent housing-problems,
possible losses on homes
owned or being acquired, and
the severing of family and
social ties.
It is hard to believe that all
the disruption is necessary.
Decentralisation has been the
cry for years, but the building
of a £ 1-million repair-shop for
diesels in Sydney metropolitan
area is surely not decentrali-
sation. Smaller shops at, say,
one established railway-town on
each of the main lines should
have cost no more, tost nothing
in efficiency, and at the same


time maintained the essential
sense of security for many
employees and the stability of
sizeable country towns.
Efforts being made by
union-executives to secure
co-operation between manage-
ment and staff should not
be lightly discounted. A happy
and contented staff is essential
for efficient working, and
there are hundreds of keen
and capable men in the service
who can show how to improve
efficiency and effect savings.
There is a “suggestions branch,”
but what is really wanted
are on-the-spot discussions
between rank-and-file and
executives, with quick decisions
and full co-operation between
all ranks.
Despite dieselisation, electri-
fication and mechanical
accounting, the most important
factor in reducing railway
deficits is a keen and contented
staff. — Sunats (N.S.W.).
Buses and Bottlenecks
Since Sydney’s Transport
Department replaced trams
with buses on the north side
of the Harbor commuters
don’t quite know whether to
be pleased or sorry.
True, the Government
vehicles, with tasteful green
bell-cords matching dark-green
upholstery, are comfortable
enough—provided you dodge
the seats over the wheels.
Rubberised doors spring open
“You sure you've no holes in your socks?"
to let you out, and in general
it seems a cleaner, potentially
faster form of transport than
the old.
But the plain fact is that
the enormous number of buses,
particularly on the Chatswood-
Wynyard run, are adding fur-
ther to the daily bottleneck
around Crow’s Nest and Vic-
toria Cross. The other morn-
ing I counted 15 green
leviathans, motionless, down
beyond Crow’s Nest. There-
after the journey consisted of
short stops and starts; it
wasn’t till we were nearly half-
way across the bridge that a
steady 15 m.p.h. could be
attempted.
Under the old system if you
got a tram at, say, 8.25 a.m.
you would get to the city well
before 9-o’clock. At present,
getting a bus at the same time,
one reaches Wynyard at nine
minutes past. Doubtless much
of the delay is due to traffic,
and when the tram-tracks on
the bridge are converted to
roadway there should be an
improvement; but lately I was
one of a group of people who
had to wait 20 minutes beyond
the scheduled time for a city-
bound bus from Willoughby.
—A. W. (N.S.W.).
Modern Retailing
Briefly, ‘ P.0.M.C.” (B.
23/7/’5B), my main and fixed
objection to this newfangled
“budget-account” system of
trading is the clause in The
agreement to pay the trader
“such charges as the manage-
ment may from time to time
determine.”
People today might be
interested to know that,
within living memory, em-
ployees were liable to fines and
jail-sentences for leaving their
jobs without prior notice
(“Master and Servants Act,
1898”); that home-occupiers
were liable to jail-sentences if
they neglected to pay municipal
charges for the removal of
night-soil (“Nuisances Preven-
tion Act, 1897”) and that
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 499
Across
I—lrritable1 —Irritable uniform of a servant. (6)
4 —The latest sailor to kick the bucket by the way. (8)
B—American8 —American technique. (7)
10 —My Charlie is first characterised by abysses. (6)
13 —Ring the number given by mother to Poe when some-
what telescoped by one article verbiage which sounds
like its meaning. (11, but some would say 12)
15 —Turn taken by the mad mother. (3)
16 — Precipitation shown by a charac-
ter in “Arms and the Man.” (5)
17 — Yours truly does the right-angle
object of veneration. (4)
18 — A Carthaginian did nothing. (4)
20— A Shakspearean “ball” in ice-
hockey. (4)
21 — One Tchaikovsky beginning sug-
gests a reason for scratching. (4)
22 It may not be music at eight—
but the reverse is true enough. (5)
24 — I Latinised the East on leave. (3)
25 — Domestic cannibal chief’s order
to his chef after capturing the
enemy’s top-brass. (4-7)
26 — Please change in dreamland. (6)
28— Loxton drastically criticises ship-
ping. (7)
29 — Nothing’s altered by shifts in the
dark. (6, 2)
30 — Sun due for change like a mint
stamp. (6)
Down
1— Printer fired some swine on strike
with her. (12)
2 Decoration in an irritable
state. (8, 5)
3 A cricket score spotted affirma-
tive skedaddled. (4, 4)
5 Part of a circle. (3j
6 Drop like entertainments. (6)
7 Stay without a pen. (3)
9 —Who composed some duo to
divide with an axe. (4, 2,3)
11—They’re stuffy and old-fashioned
residents of Seymour and there-
abouts. (3-10)
12 —Disorderly trammies’ idol given
everlasting life. (12)
14 —Appeasement for Cerberus and
the ugly old woman with us after
the initial gullet. (9)
19 —Monicker gear on women
only. (8)
23 —Emphasise current American
cash. (6)
26 — Albert the first Moslem. (3)
27 — For no amateur. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 498


defaulters in fulfilling the terms
of t.-p. agreements were
similarly liable (“P oli c e
Offences Act, 1901”).
Obviously there are plenty of
people willing to disclose their
private and financial histories
to prospective creditors, but it
just wouldn’t appeal to me.
But I admit to one credit-
account: the newsagent is paid
annually.—Y. Mee (N.S.W.)'.
Torrens Title
Slipped past with scarcely a
mention, the 100th anniversary
of the Torrens Land Act, which
brought millions of acres in
Australia under Torrens Title.
The Real Property Act of
South Australia, passed on
January 27, 1858, came into
operation on July 2, 1858.
Robert Torrens (he was
knighted in 1872 for his work),
originator of the title, was
Dublin-educated and became
a member of the S.A. Legis-
lature. In 1853 he was
Treasurer and Registrar-
General, and was also a
member of the first S.A.
Ministry when the State
achieved self-government in
1856.
Although the change has
immeasurably aided lawyers
through the years, the gent.-
ones of a century ago were
not enamored of the proposal,
submitted by a mere layman,
and gave Torrens no en-
couragement indeed, when
the bill was introduced they
greeted it with derision.
N. S. Wales did not adopt
the new law until January 1,
1863.—N. A. B. (N.S.W.).
Women in Public Life
Charles Meeking thinks
wishfully (B. 30/7/’5B) when,
in seeking a solution to the
problem which “chains half (of
the country’s) brains to the
kitchen-sink,” he hazards
“better education for men in
the use of the intelligence of
women.”
In Australia, practical poli-
ticians arise either from trade-
unionism or big business, with
local-government, a minor
sphere of national politics, fit-
ting in between. Australian
women aren’t trade-unionists in
the practical sense —officers of
most of their organisations are
men —nor, with a few notable
exceptions, have they ever
shown intelligent or active
interest in local-government.
Two handicaps to the Aus-
tralian woman’s serious entry
into public or political life are
"I'm afraid Bert has been seeing too many edult Westerns."
her strong maternal instincts
and her inborn disinclination
to assume the lead against men
except in the domestic sphere.
I suggest they organise
through existing women’s
bodies their own political party
—say, the Independent
Women’s Party and contest
all seats at one or two general
elections to see how they go.
—P. O. MacCabe (N.S.W.).
Football and
Sportsmanship
Attacks on Soccer and
Rugby League referees by
players and spectators aren’t
doing much for Australia’s
international sporting reputa-
tion.
Soccer followers seem to be
the main offenders—there have
been several instances of
players and bystanders punch-
ing referees and nearly causing
riots, with police bounding on
to the scene to protect the poor
ref. Yet this man is supposed to
have the co-operation of both
sides and power to rule the
game as he sees fit.
And in the third Rugby
League Test between England
and Australia there was a
regrettable example of un-
sporting conduct by spectators
when they showered the referee
with bottles, glasses, oranges,
etc., when a decision went
against the home-team. Even
if the ref. was in error, this
outrageous act was not
warranted.
If this sort of thing con-
tinues, players of both codes
will be hard-put to find a ref.
prepared to manage the game
justly.— Frangeo (N.S.W.).
Inconvenient Railways
When my wife and I travel
from our home at West Ryde
(in Sydney’s Western Suburbs)
to stations on the Cronulla or
East Hills line, we must change
from a city-bound train at
Redfern. Usually there is only
a minute or two from the time
our train gets in and the time
the other train is due to pull-
out, with a few platforms to
be traversed by overhead-
bridge in between; but there
should be time to get across.
In one recent instance we
hurried around, with the
other train just pulling-in. We
had got almost to the bottom
of the steps, about 20yds. from
the train and in clear view of
the guard, when he deliberately
let her go.
Another time my wife, with
small child, had five minutes
between trains. When she got to
the other platform the Cronulla
train had gone—it was run-
ning early. That’s as bad as
having ’em late!
In Melbourne on holidays
and on the point of returning
to Sydney, I wanted to send
my heavy case on in the
luggage-van. So I lugged it to
the nearest suburban station
and asked to insure it. None
of the three porters on duty
had a clue what to do, and
eventually I had to take the
case right in to Spencer Street
to cloak it.
The railways should be able
to provide for the dispatch
of luggage from suburban
stations. Though my passenger-
ticket to Sydney admittedly
read Spencer Street, I actually
started my journey from
the suburban station. —K. R.
(N.S.W.).
Wool and Decentralisation
The Goulburn wool-selling
Centre dispute is surely a
matter for all Australians, not
merely the graziers. Australian
workmen are directly con-
cerned with wool-business as
transport - workers, wharf-
laborers, packers, shipping and
banking officials, textile-
workers, shearers, shed-hands,
and all those in wool firms.
By tending to neglect her
great fibre, Australia is placing
the key to wealth and power in
jeopardy. Her education,
hospitals, roads and other
public works cannot function
efficiently if funds are short.
England and Spain both rose
to power and wealth through
wool; properly handled over
the last 150 years wool
could have made Australia
enormously wealthy. Let us
at least salvage what is left
over from synthetics, high
prices and gross mismanage-
ment in the marketing of wool.
All Australia should fight with
Goulburn for wool and
decentralisation. G. Troy
Roche (N.S.W.).


ROYAL JELLY
Direct from the bees. One month’s
supply in capsules £5/5/- airmail
post free; free leaflet.
REX PEACOCK,
Apiarist, 21 Carbine Street*
KERANG, YICTOKIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
HORMONES AND BETTER BEEF
'T’he hormone treatment for
“finishing” livestock, intro-
duced by the Boots Co., has
shown after a year’s applica-
tion under a variety of com-
mercial conditions in all States
the considerable potential it
has for improving both beef-
quality and overall production.
Speaking at a field-day at
Innisfail (Q.) recently, J.
Only, a cattle - husbandry
officer at South Johnstone
Research Station, described
the use of hormones in finish-
ing beef as “an .infusion at a
most valuable time” for the
Queensland beef-cattle industry.
W. J. B. Murphy, principal
livestock officer (beef-cattle)
with the N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture, has added (as
reported in Tam worth
“Northern Daily Leader”):
Hormones are likely to be used
in increasing amounts to accelerate
the fattening processes of beef-
cattle. Considerable experimental
work has been carried out already
by the various authorities in New
South Wales (since the introduc-
tion of the treatment 12 months
ago) and the point has been
The destruction of
rabbits by myxo-
matosis in England has
caused the fox menace
to become more acute.
Hungry foxes are now
taking lambs within 20
yards of homesteads.
However, farmers and
shepherds have kept
the foxes at bay by
painting the lambs with
creosote, although in
some cases the smell
of the creosote has
resulted in the ewes
neglecting the lambs.
One step for lamb
preservation which
stockowners through-
out the world have
taken during the past
few years is the-, use
of Elastrator Rubber
Rings instead of the
knife for marking and
tailing. Elastrator
Rubber Rings cause no
open wounds to become
infected by germs.
reached that allows one to evaluate
the position and make firm recom-
mendations... .No two results with
hormones have yielded exactly
similar results, but taking a mid-
line through all the trials it can
be said that implanted steers could
be expected to gain £lb. live-
weight a head a day more than
unimplanted steers.
Individual results by graziers
in all States fully support these
opinions.
Hormone - implanted steers
have wop two major fat-steer-
carcass * competitions (Mel-
bourne Royal last October,
and again at the recent Sydney
R.A.S. competition, when H.
Gordon Monro, of Bingara,
N.S.W., entered an implanted
Aberdeen Angus which gained
top honors both “on the hoof”
and “on the hook,” a double
seldom achieved).
A record price at Robb’s
Jetty cattle-market, near Fre-
mantle (W.A.), was made two
months ago by a mob of
implanted cattle from T. A.
MacDonald’s property at
Fossil Downs. The cattle com-
pleted the long trek in better
condition than any previous
consignment from this remote
property. This last factor —of
treated cattle reaching market
in better condition after travel-
ling long distances —has also
been reported in Queensland
and Victoria with hormone-
implanted stock, and is par-
ticularly important in the
conditions of beef-marketing
in Australia.
Another valuable application
of the treatment has been in
improving cull or unfinished
stock. In a departmental trial
in the Tumbarumba (N.S.W.)
district last year half of a
cull-group of 14 vealers con-
sidered not fit for sale were
implanted as part of further
topping - off. The treated
animals proved superior
“doers,” as their general,
appearance clearly showed,
and produced the better quality
later “on the hook.”
Hormones, implanted under
the skin of the ear, have three
main effects:
(1) Production on the car-
cass of the treated animal of
more meat and less waste fat.
(2) Increase of growth-rate,
so that the animal reaches
market-weight sooner.
(J) improvement of the
ammal s feed - conversion—
that is, more edible weight for
the total weight of feed eaten,
m j j-% 1- j r
(K. J. Doohn and Sons, of
Myall Downs, North Star,
N.S.W., are “finishing” im-
planted stock in two months
instead of three on first-class
“I suppose you could call him essentially a balance-rider ."
pastures—a saving of a month’s
pasture.)
The third point—feed-
conversion—has caused some
confusion. The use of hor-
mones does not fatten stock;
it “finishes." It does not
replace feed. Provision must
be made to prevent feed
cutting-out at the end of a
season, or because of drought,
as has happened during the
past year. Some form of sup-
plementary feed or a store of
fodder is necessary under poor
conditions.
Of the three points, the first
—more meat and less fat —is
probably the most important.
Nobody wants fat; least of all
the butcher catering for an
increasingly competitive home
meat-market.
World aninial - husbandry
authority Dr. John Hammond,
who recently toured Australia,
said at Sydney University:—•
we jn lhe UK US5d have
m ost of our meat eaten by coal-
miners and hard-working farmers,
and this type of person will eat
, we have farm-
mechanisation, and office-workers
who sit down all day, with the
result that people no longer want
any fat -
On another occasion he
commented, in relation to the
need for cattle with quick-
growing characteristics:
The lower cuts of the animal,
such as the ribs, bone and fat,
develop most rapidly at the end of
the animal’s growing stage by
the time a steer is three years old
its ribs are deepening and the
lower-priced cuts growing; higher-
priced cuts are finished except for
putting on a covering of fat, which
is wasteful from the butcher’s point
of view.
Too much of our beef
reaches near-market condition
and then has to be kept for a
store-period, during which it
“uses-up the meat to grow


J
NO SINGLE RUM CAN MATCH IT!
RED JACK RUM
o
RED JACK
HUM
-
£
BLENDED FROM QUEENSLAND’S
CHOICEST 7-YEAR-OLD
POT-STILL RUMS. NO “SINGLE”
RUM CAN MATCH IT
Specially blended by
John Dewar & Sons Ltd., Sydney and
Harbottle Brown & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney
♦
f
DWB7
bone,” as Dr. Hammond puts
it “Keep the animals grow-
ing at the fastest rate possible
and never let them fall back
in weight,” he says.
This may be brought about
by hormones.
Gordon Naylor.
Planned Fodder
“Billjim”: To improve the
quantity and quality of fodder
to be conserved later in the
year, now’s the time to set
about sowing more wheat or
barley for stock-feed, top-
dressing pasture-paddocks, and
checking earth - mite and
lucerne-flea.
It’s not too late to put in a
few more acres of wheat or
barley on worked-up ground if
the sowing of oats was a bit
light. Moreover, pasture-
plants respond best if top-
dressed during the first few
weeks of growth, though they
will still benefit from phos-
phate.
Spraying against mite and
flea is another job best done
early. The higher rate needed
at this time of the year—B
fluid ounces 25 per cent. D.D.T.
and 2 fluid ounces 50 per cent,
malathion—increases the cost
of spray-materials to about ss.
per acre, but it’s still worth
while.
Yellow Manchurian
Millet
“Myalla”: This season
Yellow Manchurian millet has
been grown with great success
on Queensland’s Darling
Downs, proving a very heavy
cropper.
Although drought was
experienced throughout the
summer, rain fell in early
autumn, and several hundred
acres were sown to the crop.
Seed was drilled-in at from
101 b. to 121 b. per acre (15 to
20 if broadcast), on well-
prepared land. (Superphosphate
may be applied at the rate of
lewt. per acre if fertiliser is
necessary.)
The crop grew rapidly,
reaching a height of 4ft., with
seed-heads about 7in. long
covered with branchlets full of
seed. Many crops yielded from
20 to 25 bags per acre ; one
produced 30 bags. Eight or
nine bags is considered a good
yield of panicum (Hungarian
millet).
The seed of the Yellow Man-
churian is about half the size
of panicum, almost round, and
of a bright golden color.
The plant is useful for either
green-fed or hay, and should
be cut as soon as the flower-
heads appear. If allowed io
become too advanced the
bristly seed-heads may cause
trouble to the salivary glands,
especially of horses. Yields of
from 10 to 12 tons of green-
feed have been harvested.
Growers have been advised
to sow this crop in the spring,
instead of panicum.
Water
“Bilwon”: Apart from large-
scale schemes for water-
conservation (“Myall,” B
18/6/’5B) a feature of water-
usage in Queensland during the
past five years has been the
number of farmers who are
using i-rrigation in areas where
water is limited.
Previously, rivers and creeks
were a “must.” Today, wells,
bores and small dams are tiding
limited areas of crops and
pastures over dry spells. This
has been brought about by a
change of outlook on irriga-
tion ; limited water is now
used to fill-in when Nature
temporarily goes on strike.
Small areas of pasture and
lucerne can be carried through
short dry spells with one or
two waterings, using only. a
little water to do it. Naturally,
the area that can be watered
this way is limited, but it means
much to the man on the land.
Five or six acres of lucerne
are sufficient to fill a shed with
hay. A small paddock of im-
proved pasture will lift many
farms out of the rut and keep
the cows milking until rain
comes.
This form of irrigation has
extended to many parts of
Queensland: in the orchards
on the granite-belt around
Stanthorpe, on the Darling
Downs, and even as far as
Central Queensland, where it
has proved a welcome protec-
tion to the cream-cheque. It
will probably encourage new
forms of rural activity in some
districts. For example, one
Central Queensland farmer is
raising fat-lambs in a district
that had been totally unsuitable
for this in the past. By sowing
pasture and lucerne on a limited
scale he is able to raise his fat-
lambs in spite of dry seasons.
The old idea that under-
ground water is not suitable
for irrigation is also going by
the board. Many of the wells
and bores in the clay-brigalow
belt contain hard water,
but irrigation is not needed
here as much as on the
alluvial flats, where the
water is softer and the land
is that which grows the best
lucerne and pastures, though,
the soils dry-out quicker and
don't grow Rhodes-grass as
well as the clay-brigalow soils.
Together with schemes for
small-scale irrigation, farmers
are studying the better handling
of the natural run-off, and
many are building dams in con-
junction with soil-conservation
projects. Instead of the water
being allowed to run uselessly
to waste, it is held in small
dams and used to irrigate ad-
jacent paddocks.
The Mansfield process has
helped these small catchments
by preventing evaporation, one
of the greatest troubles of the
small dam in hot climates.
Small areas of irrigation are
also proving a boon to the
towns in the limited-rainfall
belt. The water has encouraged
the small-crop farmer, with his
welcome supply of fresh
vegetables, a luxury reserved
formerly for those fortunate
enough to live on the wetter
coastal belt.
Water available at the right
time makes what would
normally be a dry season a
good one for the farmer ; and
it takes the element of risk
out of dairying in the drier
districts where good land
abounds. So, when we hear
about those big schemes that
will dam-up more water than
you’d bale out of Sydney
Harbor, we shouldn’t lose
sight of the importance of
these small-scale irrigation plots
as well, if only because their
scope is almost limitless.
Frost-free Potatoes
Is there a frost-
resistant potato-plant? I live on
the lower Blue Mountains
(N.S.W.), 1000 ft. above sea-
level, where there are heavy
frosts. For some years I have
planted a small bed of potatoes
in late April and used a hose to
wash the frost off. With only
a small area under crop, a good
water-pressure and hosing
before sunrise, it has worked
out all right.
This season I had some
Tasmanian Brownells which
sprouted in April, so I decided
to put them in. By early July,
after several heavy frosts, the
plants were about Ift. high and
looking well.
I placed a thermometer about
20ft. from the potato-patch and
checked the temperature each
morning. The readings for six
successive mornings varied
between 34 and 30, with 32
three mornings running. At
32 and below, the bare ground
a few feet away from the
potatoes was white, yet there


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50ih Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KiTCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
wasn’t a trace of frost on the
plants. I checked them each
morning before using the hose,
and when I found the dew on
the leaves not frozen I didn’t
spray them. Now, after more
than six heavy frosts, they are
as green and vigorous as ever.
Could it be that in using
Tasmanian seed in a somewhat
similar climate I have been
lucky enough to get plants
which are frost-free or at least
highly resistant to frost? An
Englishman to whom I men-
tioned the matter said he
could not recall potatoes being
killed by frost in England.
Protection of Sheep
“Daikaldau”: Interesting to
read “Sundowner’s” remarks
(B. 11/6/’5B) concerning a
plastic-film to protect sheep
from wet weather. Here in
New Guinea we haven't a very
large sheep-population, but it
is a struggling industry, and
one of the main problems is
the heavy rainfall, especially in
the highlands, where nights are
so cold.
It is the old ewes and
weaners that suffer most, and
losses each year are pretty high.
The protracted “wets” also in-
crease intestinal parasite, which
adds to the losses.
The wool, naturally enough,
is not of a very high standard,
due to rain-washing ; its main
value is for local spinning for
blankets, or for sweaters to be
issued to native labor employed
on the farm. On D. J. Leahy’s
property near Mt. Hagen the
spinning is done by hand by
the wives of employees. The
product is good—many Euro-
pean residents like the blankets
for their own use.
Experience supports the use
of sheds for the sheep: shedded
sheep do far better than those
-011 the open range, even with-
out the feeding of concentrates.
This, of course, presents no
problem to the small-holder,
but it becomes a most expensive
item when some hundreds have
to be protected from heavy
rains.
Maybe “Sundowner’s”
plastic-film has a place in New
Guinea.
Caftle-ticks
“Windy”: Before any effec-
tive dip or treatment came
along the losses caused by the
cattle-tick were staggering. By
the late ’nineties most of the
cattle in North Queensland
carried ticks. Losses of over
1000 bullocks in a mob of
2000 were common. One
station was left with 1750 head
out of 10,000. In an endeavor
to get the cattle away to clean
country, mobs of bullocks were
moved in all directions. This
only spread the tick.
At first the disease was con-
fused with anthrax ; but soon
a characteristic picture became
clear and any experienced
stockman soon knew an out-
break of tick-fever.
Some of the treatments were
weird and wonderful. The more
refined method aimed at com-
bating the fever and building
up the animal’s resistance. So
large doses of quinine, aromatic
spirits of ammonia, spirits of
nitrous ether and other distaste-
ful drenches were poured down
the patient’s neck. Needless to
say, they did little good. As they
were expensive, only the more
valuable animals could be
treated.
A popular “bush” remedy at
one time was blue-water. The
sick animal was drenched with
copious draughts of water in
which had been dissolved
ordinary washing-blue. The
blue was supposed to “purify
the blood.” Without knowing
it, the bush vet. who thought
that one up was somewhere
near the mark, as the tick-
fever organism is carried in the
blood.
In the 1930’s the European
drug-house of Bayer put
Acaprin on the market, and
for the first time the stock-
man had a safe and simple
remedy in his hands. Ad-
ministered under the skin or
direct into the bloodstream, the
drug cured all but the most
advanced cases. Deaths from
tick-fever were slashed. Now
there are several preparations
available to the cattleman, each
reliable and easy to administer.
In the early days of the tick,
cattlemen tried to stop it from
spreading by washing the
cattle with a preparation that
killed the pests.
The first mixtures were crude
and often dangerous. Kerosene
formed the basis of most early
washes. Soap was added to
make an emulsion. Turpentine-
and-tar was tried, with drastic
results.
Eventually the arsenic-soda
dip came into use. This
killed the ticks and con-
trolled them even in a
bad season, provided the
stock were dipped every three
weeks if the ticks were really
bad, and provided the dip was
sensibly used. By the early
1940’5, however, it seemed that
the tick had beaten the arsenic-
dip. Many cases were reported
of failure even with a full-
strength arsenic-dip used more
often than usual. Then, as
often happens, a new discovery
changed the outlook: not only
did D.D.T. kill the ticks; it
had a residual effect; ticks
getting on to the beast up to
10 days after treatment were
doomed.
Today there are many pre-
parations that spell doom to
the tick. As well as D.D.T.
there is 8.H.C., which kills
ticks within a day of treatment.
The after-effects are not as
lasting as those of D.D.T., but
the lethal powers are un-
doubted. Aldrin and dieldrin
give good kills and are lasting
in their effect for at least a
week. Also, such preparations
as malathion and diazinon,
chlordane, lindane and other
chemicals hold promise for the
cattleman.
The main thing to remember
when using these chemicals is
that they can be dangerous
unless used according to direc-
tions. Making them stronger in
order to get a cleaner kill can
mean dead cattle.
Still, despite the new dips
and the use of tick-fever
specifics, the cattle-tick con-
tinues to flourish. It can be
kept in check, but cannot be
wiped out altogether— at least,
not without enormous cost and
regulations that would be well-
nigh impossible to enforce.
Meanwhile, better manage-
ment of the paddocks and
strategic dippings designed to
stop the build-up of an early
wave of ticks are necessary
control-measures. Constant
stocking of paddocks without
spelling them encourages the
tick-population. A simple
rotation plan will go a long
way towards effective control.
Burning-off old dry paddocks
in readiness for the spring
storms also kills a lot of ticks ;
this hang-over from the late
summer causes the trouble. It
i§ foolish to allow ticks to
multiply in the late summer in
the belief that the frosts will
kill them off; ticks are tough
characters ; they can stand in-
credible ranges of temperature.
If cattle go into the winter
clean and are dipped early in
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(31 /7/’5B)
Rainfall may be patchy in Queensland during August,
with moderate rain on the south coast, Darling Downs,
central highlands and Maranoa. Poor rainfall is probable
in the western areas, with general rains in December.
During August the N. S. Wales coast between Port
Macquarie and Jervis Bay is likely to receive reasonably
good rains, but rainfall will probably be patchy elsewhere
in the State. Moderate to good rains are likely in
September, with the best falls on the south coast, southern
tablelands and south-west slopes ; light rains on the north
coast, west and far-western areas.
There should be moderately good rains in Victoria
during August, with the best falls in the east central,
Gippsland and west coast areas. The Maliee and northern
division are likely to have only light to moderate rains.
General rains are indicated for September, with good
follow-on rains for the balance of the year in the southern
half of the State.
Rainfall is likely to vary from moderate to good in a
large part of South Australia during August, although
poor in the upper north and interior, and varying from
light to moderate in the Murray Valley. Good rains are
likely in the agricultural areas during September.
The agricultural areas of Western Australia should
receive light to moderate rains during August, with good
rains throughout the agricultural areas during September.
LENNOX WALKER.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, ’’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS .
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.);
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin** or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
“Time to get a new pair , Feyther; awnly part not
Wore-out is the laces.”
the spring t,he chance of getting
a tick-wave will be less than if
the pests are allowed to hiber-
nate. Regular dippings up to
Christmas will keep down a
late-summer plague.
For dairymen the newer
preparations have solved many
Worries. Instead of having to
race the milkers through a
plunge-dip, they can now be
spot-sprayed and good kills
obtained. Walk-through sprays
attached near the milking-
shed and driven by the shed-
engine are a long way ahead of
the old plunge-dip.
Variegated Thistle
“Myall”: The variegated
thistle, which often grows to
4ft. across and 6ft. high when
in bloom, and which cattle and
sheep will go for when other
feed is scarce, contains nitrate
in varying quantities, and so
can be poisonous. Hungry
stock and those in low condition
are the most likely to be
affected.
Spraying with hormone
2.4. D. at the rate of ylb. per
acre for very young growth,
up to 21b. .for mature, will
control thfr pest, but a wetting-
agent should be added, other-
wise the spray may run off, as
the leaves are very glossy.
Worth noting, though, that
after spraying with hormones
the plant seems to be more
palatable to animals ; they then
eat it readily, thus increasing
the danger of nitrate-poisoning.
Methylene-blue is an antidote,
but it’s wise to call in the
vet. should any animals be
affected. Best plan is to keep
all animals out of the treated
paddock for two or three weeks
after spraying.
Sowing Native
Grasses
“G.G.2”: This is how I
seeded a chopped-out paddock
on Warenda station (at that
time 5000 square-miles in the
far west of Queensland). The
paddock, about 30,000 acres,
had been overstocked and
chopped-out with, heavy cattle.
It was bare plain-country, not
a tree to a square-mile, lots of
ash-bed and loose downs, roly-
poly and other rubbish ; not one
stool of Mitchell to five acres.
As manager, I planned an
effort of restoration. A new
area, towards Fort William,
had been fenced Opitz
Paddock, about 40,000 acres. It
was thick with Mitchell, all
heavily seeded, fit for picking.
I decided to let the work be
done in a natural manner,
without expense. Back in
1912 wool was low and money
was tight. I had about 10,000
full-woolled ewes put in Opitz.
They did as I expected them
to do: they worked through the
grass, seeking sweeter picking,
and they gathered the Mitcheli-
seed in their fleeces.
After about a fortnight I
had them mustered and shifted
to Woolshed Paddock, the one
that had been chopped-out and
was bare of Mitchell. I
reckoned there was enough
rubbish and bits of picking to
kesp them going for a couple
of weeks, until they were
mustered for shearing. Also,
that seed sticking to the wool
would fall or be brushed off
while the ewes foraged for
grass and food in Woolshed.
My notion was that there was
no better way to plant native
seeds than to have the
trampling trotters of sheep
harrow them into the ground,
hide them in dust from the
corellas and budgerigars, give
them a flying-start in life.
The rains came as if ordered
in advance. The strike of
Mitchell was astounding. I
gloried in it. If a patent had
been available for the process
I’d have taken one out.
And then I came a thud—and
this is written to warn others
against doing the same thing.
I reckoned that if I put sheep
in the paddock they’d nip the
heads off the Mitchell and
thicken the stools. They didn’t!
They pulled the weak plants
out!
I’Ve since learned by theory
and experiment that Mitchell
has a very weak hold of the
ground in its baby days. It
requires at least three months
to get a good- grip, establish a
root-system, and stand grazing.
Concentrates
“Billjim”: Generally speak-
ing, concentrates should be fed
only over short periods, and
usually when there is a fair
chance of a substantial carry-
over effect.
With dairy-cattle that result
is most likely to be achieved if
the concentrates are fed at an
early stage of lactation. Cattle
fed at a low level are likely
to show a greater response
than those already on a high
plane of nutrition.
The amounts that should be
fed are still the subject of
extensive trials at research-
stations., but there seems to be
a case for feeding large
quantities for a period of two
to three weeks when cows are
losing weight quickly after
calving.
During the first two months
after calving a Jersey cow will
require about 251 b. of dry feed
each day. It should not be
assumed that if an animal is
short of feed this can be
righted by feeding a few ounces
of concentrates each morning
and evening. The quantities
fed must be sufficiently large
to make a useful contribution
to her total diet.
Apart from an improvement
in condition and consequent
greater production, concen-
trates give an increase in
fertility on the farm, allow
greater flexibility of manage-
ment, and the carrying of more
stock, and also may help to
control bloat. Effects include
more-contented cows, a better
let-down and more-efficient
milking.
Often the condition of poorly
fed herds in the post-calving
period can be improved, not
by using concentrates, but by
ensuring that the gap in feed-
supplies is filled with grass and
silage, which can be provided
more cheaply than artificial
feedstuffs.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
Although the Cancer Campaign has
officially closed, functions organised to
raise money for this appeal are still being
held. Latest was the fashion-parade,
followed by a champagne cocktail-party,
the dual function of which was to aid
the campaign and to celebrate the open-
ing of the Chandelier Room at the Myer
Emporium. Mrs, Norman Sheppard,
deputy-chairman of the women’s group
of the campaign, was in charge of
arrangements, and ticket-secretaries were
Mrs. John Grantley Shelton and Mrs.
Walter Pisterman. Chairman of the
women’s group Mrs. Sydney Baillieu
Myer wore a smart black suit and a
cap of geranium-pink feathers. Others
at the parade were Mrs. Harry Marks,
Mrs. Neilma Gantner, Mrs. Kenneth
Myer, Mrs. Garnet Carroll, Mrs. L. J.
Dooling, Mrs. John Faulkner, Mrs. John
Brennan, Mrs. A. G. Silk, Mrs. Ada
Colman, Mrs. Frank Foley, Mrs. Lionel
Newton, Mrs. W. H. Horsfall and her
daughter-in-law Mrs. Hedley Ladd.
☆ ☆ ☆
Hand-painted cardboard sheep “sitting
knitting” were featured in the table-,
decorations for the Annual Wool Ball,
which drew 1200 dancers to the Royaie
Ballroom. Proceeds, which are expected
to reach £lBOO, will assist the Ramsay
Mailer Opportunity Club for boys and
girls. The official guests were received
by the committee-president, Elizabeth
Mildred. TheV included the president of
Opportunity Clubs, Mr. Eugene Gorman,
Q.C., Mr. and Mrs. Cecil Greaces ; Mr.
and Mrs. Ivor Morrison; and the
manager of the Ramsay Mailer Club,
Mr. R. Leone, and Mrs. Leone. Both
Elizabeth and former president Jane
Hennessey wore lovely white formal
gowns; other committee members in-
cluded Penny Lane (wearing a gown of
shrimp-pink silk-taffeta), Sue Faull
(whose white taffeta gown featured a
sash and wide back-panel of ice-blue
taffeta), Anna Jensen (her choice a short
frock, featuring a peacock-hemline, in
Wedgwood-blue and white silk) and her
sister Elizabeth (in turquoise-blue
chiffons). Marilyn Cottrell, Jenny Strat-
mann and Diana Dougall ail chose white
gowns.
At the monthly meeting of the Ameri-
can Women’s Auxiliary to the Royal
Children’s Hospital president Mrs. Mark
Clements presented to Lady Murdoch,
president of the hospital, a cheque for
more than £3OOO, the proceeds from a
Christmas fete and the July 4 ball at the
Palais. Lady Murdoch presented life-
governorships of the hospital to
Mesdames Graham Hall, W. Bushwaller,
Collas Harris, Gerald Kinross, Omer
Payne, J. T. Prendergrass, K. Shergold
and M. A. Wyatt. One also went to
Mr. H. A. Payze for his spectacular
backdrop depicting the Capitol Building,
and a 22ft.-high figure of Uncle Sam
which he designed for the July 4 ball.
At the meeting farewell-spoons were pre-
sented to Mrs. Guy Woodward, who is
returning to Pennsylvania, and Mrs. C. T.
York, who goes to Washington with her
Consul husband.
Diana Goiler returns to the stage, after
having achieved solid success in radio,
to play the role of Janice in the Broad-
way comedy “Anniversary Waltz,” which
opens at the Princess next Friday and
stars American film-actor Richard Arlen.
When Mrs. Alice McLaren was mar-
ried at Christ Church, South Yarra, she
chose the day on which her mother, Mrs.
Helen Strachan, was celebrating her 62nd
wedding-anniversary. Her full-skirted
frock of cinnamon-brown silk-organza
appliqued with matching guipure-lace
was worn with a cloche-hat of pink
violets. She pinned - two pink orchids
on her bag. Mrs. Roy McGowan, the
bride’s sister, was matron-of-honor, and
her frock off taupe silk-organza was con-
trasted with a small hat of autumn leaves
and velvet. The bridegroom, William S.
Taylor, of Mayfield, Newcastle (N.S.W.),
had his brother-in-law, William Under-
wood, as best man. After the ceremony
close friends and relatives attended a
dinner-reception at Kenilworth, South
Yarra. Mr. and Mrs. Taylor will live
in Mayfield.
☆ ☆ ☆
A gala-premiere of “The Caine
Mutiny” at the Little Theatre helped
along the funds of the White Ensign
Club, which looks after the comfort of
-naval personnel on leave in this city.
In the audience were the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. F. W.
Thomas), the latter wearing a smart black
velvet dinner-frock; U.S. Naval Attache
Capt. C. M. White and Mrs. White (her
black frock worn with a mink cape);
Assistant U.S. Naval Attache Lieut. John
Marsh; U.S. Vice-Consul J. Carleton
Brower and Mrs. Brower ; Commodore
J. Plunkett-Cole and his wife; Capt.
and Mrs. G. Fowle ; Mr. and Mrs. Colin
McKay ; Mr. and Mrs. George Laurens
(their daughters Deana and Fay sold
programmes); the Roy Honeymans (he
is a member of the club-committee); Cr.
and Mrs. Maurice Nathan; Cr. O. J.
Nilsen ; and Mr. and Mrs. E. Cottrell.
☆ ☆ ☆
In the audience which filled the Town
Hall for the concert given by the Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra conducted
by Rafael Kubelik were the parents of
the 15-year-old Israeli pianist, Daniel
Barenboim, who played Beethoven’s
Concerto No. 3 in C Minor. Also noted
in the audience were the Ewart Chappies,
U. Consul-General Graham Hall and
Mrs. Hall, Mrs. Guy Bakewell and niece
Claire Deasey, Lady Hyde, Mr. G. J.
Manton and his daughter Helen, Arch-
bishop and Mrs. J. J. Booth, Mrs. Robert
Hamilton, Miss Annie Danks, American
baritone William Warfield, Mrs. J.
Cathie and pianist Vera Bradford.
☆, ☆ ☆
It was not a case of “leave it to the
ladies” when a gala premiere of “Furs
and Femmes” was organised at the
Tivoli. Mr. Sol Fromer was chairman
of the committee, Mr. Bill Dooley the
hon. organiser, and Rex Hunt the hon.
secretary. Bourke Street was filled with
excited sightseers who crowded round
the theatre to see the gaily-uniformed
marching-girls and the firemen with their
brass helmets gleaming under the lights.
These comprised the guard-of-honor for
the Governor and Lady Brooks and the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr.
and Mrs. F. W. Thomas). Before thq,
show commenced there was a parade of
furs, and during the evening a magnifi-
cent sapphire-blue mink stole was
raffled. The proceeds of the night, £4OOO,
go to the Lord Mayor’s Fund for Metro-
politan Hospitals. Among those in the
audience were Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton
Sleigh, Cr. Sir Frank and Lady Selleck,
Cr. W. J. Kilpatrick and his wife, Mr
and Mrs. John Inkster, Mr. and Mrs.
V. Nilsen, Mr. and Mrs. Keith Hattam,
Mr. and Mrs. David Raeburn Brown
(Rosewood, N.S.W.), and Mr. and Mrs.
W. K. Burnside.
CANBERRA
An exhibition of pottery by Henry
Le Grand and paintings by Theo
Bischoff, both of Canberra, created a
good deal of interest in Goulburn. The
exhibition in the auditorium of the City
Library was officially opened .by the
Goulburn Art Club president, Mrs. W.


Beamish. The British Council liaison-
officer, Mr. C. A. F. Dundas, when
speaking at the opening, said the mamage
of the two arts was refreshing, with a
relaxation to be enjoyed without the
emotional strain. so often placed on us
at art exhibitions. Canberra clay was
used to form the creative shapes of Henry
Le Grand’s pottery ; many of the pieces
shown will be included in his collection
to be exhibited at the International
Ceramic Festival in Belgium next year,
when Mr. Le Grand will represent Aus-
tralia in the art of pottery. Theo
Bischoff's watercolor landscapes were
painted mostly in the south of Australia
and drew much interest at the well-
attended opening.
☆ ☆ ☆
A display of hand-weaving was among
the exhibits at the Handicrafts and
Hobbies Exhibition at the Albert Hall,
Canberra. Some fine examples came
from Victoria ; the original designs of
Melbourne weaver Mrs. V. Finlayson
made her work outstanding. Table-mats
of bamboo and raffia, made by Peter
Jack, of Canberra, were very attractive,
and v novel but so useful, bath-mats
woven of typewriter ribbon, needless to
say before being inked. Other exhibits
included native crafts from the Institute
of Anatomy, and delicate wood-carving
in a Lithuanian group. Loaned by Mr.
Robert A. McKillop, a century-old Swiss
musical-box, still in perfect tune, was an
exhibit of interest.
The exhibition was arranged by the
Canberra Y.M.C.A.
SYDNEY
Spring sent several messengers into
Sydney one way and another during the
week. Nature's special envoys the daffo-
dils arrived, and immediately gardens,
florists’-shops and flower-stalls began to
look-up. At the same time the milliners
and dressmakers started blooming, three
fashion-parades establishing what one
will probably wear when spring itself
arrives. And, lastly, three young men
in Saville Row suits arrived from London
to give us the latest fashion-news from
abroad and to “look us over” (view,
designing clothes for us).
v #
The Watson’s Bay Art Show has trans-
ferred itself for a couple of weeks tq the
Art Gallery of Anthony Hordern’s and
is raising money for the Poliomyelitis
Association. A feature of the show is
the presentation by artist H. Kenneth
Cook of high-fidelity recorded music-
recitals during the lunch-hours. At the
opening the speaker, Mr. Eric Baume,
was introduced by artist Douglas Pratt,
and Mr. J. L. Lavett (who is adminis-
trator of the association) spoke on the
good work that is being done. Mrs.
G. S. Cox, whose husband is member
for Vaucluse, was among the large gather-
ing at the opening, and others noted
included Lady Hallstrom (who had two
paintings showing) and Mrs. C.M.Guiney.
Another arrival of interest was that
of Mr. and Mrs. John Unicomb, who
have returned after six years abroad. Both
actors —it will be remembered that he
played Terry O’Riordan in “Sons of.
Matthew,” and she was actress Fernande
Glynn—they have travelled 5000 miles in
England, Scotland and Wales by caravan,
which was their home for three years.
They played in repertory, radio and tele-
vision during the six years they were
abroad, and bring back with them their
son, four-year-old Michael, who now sees
Australia for the first time.
The engagement of Rita Albins, of
Wahroonga, to Karlheinz Schmidt, of
Chatswood, was announced during the
weekend. Both Rita and Karlheinz are
new settlers in Australia, where they
find life warm and friendly. Karlheinz
comes originally from Germany and Rita
from Latvia. The daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Edwin Albins, she plans at a later
date to write a book on her experiences
in World War II. Her photo is by
Norton Trevaire.
The first of the hat-shows, which was
held at Prince’s, was in aid of the Mater
Hospital, with Mrs. Tom Bateman
organising, welcoming, opening. Radio
and TV personality Gwen Plumb, about
the only hatless person in the room, was
the compere, and Stella Fraenkel supplied
the hats, many of which had come from
abroad. There was a great variety of
shapes shown, but the most fashionable
types seem to be the down-turning ones,
the mushrooms, the cloches and planter.
The showing of Henriette Lamotte hats,
at Glen Ascham was of the champagne-
flowing, harbor-viewing type, very lively
and fashionable. It was in aid of the
Black and White Ball committee, which,
of course, works for the Royal Blind
Society, and a nice little speech was made
by the committee’s acting-president, Mrs.
Neville Manning.
Poets’ Corner was at the R.E. rooms
in Bligh Street on Friday evening, when
Penguin Books gave a cocktail-party to
celebrate the publication of The
Penguirt Book of Australian Verse,
edited by John Thompson, Kenneth
Slessor and Professor R. G. Howarth.
Penguin’s representative in Sydney,
Dorothy McDonagh, had beckoned
in a fine gathering of poets and
poetesses (saw Rosemary Dobson
there, Joyce Shrewcroft, Elizabeth Rid-
dell) and everyone seemed to be in lively
spirits. Conversation sparkled and,
though no one said a poet could not be
but gay in such a jocund company, it
would have been appropriate. By the
way, a thought struck this commercially-
minded Letter that this anthology at
ss. 6d. is a winner for Christmas-presents.
She, for one, will stock-up immediately.
“R.McC.”: The chased silver ear-
trumpet, the intent eyes that even an
editor thought beautiful, the clear,
decided voice of Ethel Anderson, who
died in Sydney last week, come out of
memory with her manuscripts, full of the
idiosyncrasies of spelling peculiar to
stylists, sprinkled with 18th-century
raised capitals for proper-nouns, more
nouns given capitals in the revision with
pen-and-ink—all of which had to be
levelled again for Bulletin style ; maybe
the finest, certainly among the finest,
Australian women prose-writers, a prose
so evocative, and at the same time so
solid, that one could almost buy it, like
mosaic, by the square-inch. Born in
England, she was a pupil at S.C.E.G.S.,
and as wife of Brigadier-General A. T.
Anderson saw the India of two books
of stories, and a great deal of Govern-
ment Houses in both Sydney and Can-
berra, when her husband was military-
secretary to Governors de Chair, Game,
Hore-Ruthven and the Duke of Glouces-
ter —which accounts for her fine
biography of young Patrick Hore-
Ruthven, and no little of the atmos-
phere of her book of Australian short-
stories, At Parramatta. Mrs. Anderson
also wrote poetry; some of her most
recent poems celebrated her father’s
(Cyrus Mason’s) place, Rangamatty,
N.S.W. Her daughter, Bethia Foot, pub-
lished a first-novel only this year.
☆ ts it
One of the disappointments of the week
was the report that Princess Margaret
would probably not visit Australia for
the Queensland centenary next year.
Though Princess Alexandra was sug-
gested in her place, which would be
nice, there is something about the report
which makes one feel rather like the
young man who worked all those years
for Rachel. They say Princess Alexandra
is very handsome, friendly and unaffected.
Max Oldaker, at present appearing in
“My Fair Lady” in London, is quoted
as having been most impressed by her,
and to have asked when he first saw
her: “Who is that capable-looking girl?”
Max, of course, who is the nicest of
persons, meant to be flattering, but
somehow there is something about being
“capable-looking” which dims the
glamor.


sound-version of “The, Senti-
mental Bloke.” In both of
these and other Hanna-directed
films for F. T. Thring, the
assistant-director was Long-
ford ; he also played bit parts,
such as the ’German spy in
“Diggers.”
'T'he astounding success of the
earlier “Sentimental Bloke,”
and perhaps the work at that
time of Beaumont Smith with
his “Hayseeds” films, may have
been the cause of E. J.
Carroll and his brother deciding
to make a screen-play of On
Our Selection.
E. J. Carroll, who had begun
as an exhibitor in 1907 with
-that first feature, “The Kelly
Gang,” had moved into pro-
duction in 1918 with “The Lure
of the Bush.” In this, Reg
(“Snowy”) Baker, who toured
Australia with his roughriding-
show, had been given his first
film role. “Snowy,” depicted
astride a parabolic buckjumper
on billboard posters through-
out the country, was the idol
of small boys in those days.
He appeared later in such
films as “The Man from
Kangaroo,” “The Shadow of
Lightning Ridge” and “The
Jackeroo of Coolabong.”
Steele Rudd having agreed to
the Carrolls’ proposed screen-
play, a meeting was arranged
at their office in Sydney. Long-
ford, feeling that it would be
well to have Working with
them the man who knew the
background intimately, invited
Rudd to join him and Lottie
Lyell in preparing the scenario,
but the tall Queenslander said
no ; he had seen some of Long-
ford’s work, he drawled,.and
it suited him fine.
So Longford set to work to
make a film of the book which
began its career in 1899, and
on which a play had been run-
ning since 1912. As Dad he
cast character - actor Percy
Walshe (who had worked with
him in two former films), and
as Mother, Beatrice Esmond.
Tal Ordell, who later became
well-known on Sydney radio-
stations, and who played
Ginger Mick in the sound-
version of “The Bloke,” was
cast as Dave.
T ongford subsequently gave
an account of one color-
ful episode in the making of
that film:
“The locale for filming' was
Baulkham Hills, just outside
Parramatta and for the
drought scenes, near the pic-
turesque fruit-growing district
of Leeton. There was plenty
of irrigation at Leeton, but we
located a few miles away at a
place called Millbank Station.
This was a hellish hole, minus
water and vegetation, for no
rain had fallen for two years.
Dead cattle were lying every-
where.
“When the locals mentioned
drought we retorted that now
we’d arrived with movie-
camera and outfit it was sure
to rain. However, it was
drought-scenes we were after,
not rain. Three days later I
had all we required, with the
exception of a “fire”-shot
depicting the destruction of
Rudd's domicile. I was not
optimistic.... to me it seemed
too dangerous. But next day
a bloke rode up and casually
informed us that a bushfire
had started a few miles back!
“Here was a throw-in if you
like! We got all we wanted.
1 doubt if any bushfire-fighters
worked harder than our. ‘On
Our Selection’ company did
fighting that fire. It even
burned poor old Dad’s
whiskers. And then —wonders
never cease —it started to rain,
and the situation was saved.
“Later I ascertained that,this
fire was inspired—deliberately
set alight to assfst us to obtain
what we wanted for ‘On Our
Selection.’ ”
Rudd was as delighted with
the film when finished, as were
the thousands who flocked to
theatres to see it. Longford
followed-up his triumph by
making “Ginger Mick,” and
in 1922, for Carroll, he made
“The Blue Mountains Mystery”
and another Rudd film,
“Rudd’s New Selection.”
T\uring 1920-22 the Carrolls,
Longford and Beaumont
Smith dominated the Aus-
tralian film-world. To Smith
goes the honor of giving
Henry Lawson his only screen
appearance, when he appeared
in the prologue to “While the
Billy Boils.” “The Kelly
Gang” (Southwell Films) had
its third airing, and was filmed
again in 1923. But another
cameraman-director had begun
work also. This was Captain
Frank Hurley, who had been
south with the Shackleton
expedition, and who edited his
first documentary, “In the Grip
of Polar Ice,” in 1920. He
followed this next year with
“Pearls and Savages.”
In 1925, for Australasian
Fiims, Longford directed “The
Pioneers,” the film-version of
the novel with which Katha-
rine Susannah Prichard began
her career as a novelist (it had
won first Australian prize in
a £lOOO all-British contest).
The cast included Irve Hay-
man (Thad McNab), Martyn
Keith (Steve), Winter Hall
(Dan), Fred St. Clair (Davey
Cameron) and Alma Rock
Phillips (Deirdre).
Two years later Marcus
Clarke’s For the Term of His
Natural Life was filmed again
(its first screening had been
in 1917), with an American
actress, Eva Novak, playing
the part of Sylvia. She was
also engaged by an American
company, Phillips Films, to
act in another Rudd story,
The Romance of Runnibede.
TTp to the end of 1928, which
marked the beginning of
sound-films, Australian pro-
ducers and directors had dis-
tributed approximately 160
films. Their theme, in the
main, had been what Joseph
Furphy would have described
as “offensively Australian.”
Some were probably atrocious,
some very good indeed; the
majority were for purely Aus-
tralian viewing.
In the subsequent 26 years
of sound-film production in
this country perhaps 100 have
been distributed, some of them
being screened overseas. Yet
Australia, which has the third-
largest cinema-audience in the
world, does not today produce
enough films to warrant inclu-
sion in Unesco’s 1956 list
of feature-film producers!
Last year Japan distributed
302 features, and Hong Kong,
the little island with the fourth-
largest film industry in the
world, managed to make 200.
We would seem to be miss-
ing out altogether on one of
th e greatest propaganda
agencies.
Consider some of the recent
“Australian” films. “Smiley”
was made by London Films
and 20th Century Fox ; “Walk
into Paradise” by Southern
International and Discifilm
(a French company); “A
Town Like Alice” by the J.
Arthur Rank Organisation ;
“The Overlanders,” , “Eureka
Stockade” and “Bitter Springs”
were all Ealing Studios pro-
ductions.
The last time “Robbery
Under Arms” was produced
here (1920) 11 other films
were made that year! The
heritage established by the
men who pioneered a healthy
young industry in Australia
seems to have been completely
lost . . .
And what happened to Ray
Longford? A press-report in
1955 stated that the man who
30 years ago was known as
“Australia’s leading scenarist
and motion-picture director,”
was working as a night-
watchman on a Sydney wharf.
THE POOL
The pool was a single fact, but a miracle
changes to double or triple any known thing.
So in the times within Time he knew he was absent
from his blown, penitential trees or his paddocks in spring,
the miracle happened: the pool existed for ever
where it was, where he wished it and as a clear
surface of thought, reflecting all that was distant.
Absence may come like a gale breaking out through the
tree-tops;
then, colder than storm, as the silence and stillness of frost.
Rage, perplexity, sorrow seemed just a part of the weather,
with the difference sometimes lost.
I
But despite confusion of mind, that depthless mirror
existed
beneath a mallet of wind, in the clench of cold.
“It is,” he would say, : “most peaceful under lightning,
that turns gun-metal carp to missiles of gold.”
His listeners sighed, not always perceiving the inward
shining of light on a crystal, love on its sphere:
pastures, timber, 'the homestead rose—and their centre
a depth for the sun, ripping day from the sky, to sink
under;
a pool where the bud of each morning used to appear.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.


The fo’c’stle became a whirl-
pool, you its navel.
Felicite moaned.
You heard, like the trickling
of rice, the trickle of rosaries
. . . mutter . . . mutter . . .
You were mortally drunk ;
wondered if you dared attempt
to rise amid the almost
palpable revolutions of
matter; felt sick ; began your-
self to whirl on a pivot; fell
asleep.
C'creeching woke you.
A naked zambo Hercules
—where did he come from? —
gesticulated widely and
violently before his ravished
locker.
“My beer! My beer!” His
voice was reticulated with the
agony of an older, bewildered
world. He brandished stoker’s
arms, apparently twenty, threw
the saucepan, kicked mutton-
bones about, jumped like
Nijinski. The music did not
even wince.
“My beer!”
A soothing voice, wise and
fawn, a voice that might be
the violin’s, drifted from
among the drifting creepers of
tobacco-smoke:
“Now, now, Hazel-man,
quiet, ma-an . . . qui-i-et,
sail-or . . .”
Toni, vividly awake, fixed
tortoise’s eyes on his victim.
Hazel, averting eyes from
one thing, one person only,
knew who was the Loki of the
fo’c’stle; Hazel knew why
Felicite moaned ; Hazel knew
where his grog had gone —
he could see the gorgeous surf
of it slapping in the intricate
tunnels of Toni’s stomach;
Hazel, giant and child, could
rip Toni’s arms off. But Toni,
vividly awake, fixed tortoise’s
eyes . . .
Without facing his hunter,
fleejng without movement,
destroyed though untouched,
Hazel screamed a jungle
scream. He smashed bottles.
He hurled the kettle. Music
snaked about unseeingly under
blade-sharp light. He yanked
the pickle-jar above his head ;
vinegar cascaded.
“My beer!” he shrieked
again, but defeatedly.
The jar crashed to destruc-
tion.
“. . . now, now, Hazel-man
. . . qui-et, fell-a-ah . . .”
Chanting. Praying. Violin.
The smoke coagulated. Was
there something in the fo’c’stle
besides men —shapeless sea-
something . . . ?
You slept.
A/f ore screeching.
. *- Hazel was now bowed,
Atlas with a firmament of
smoke upon his shoulders.
Before him an old bald man
like a peeled monkey fanati-
cally scratched the air.
“Go it, papa Loth. Naught-
ee Haz-el. Go it, papa,” jeered
Toni, picking his teeth with a
nail-file. Loth wore only a
pink singlet and earrings. His
voice was hysterical-:
“Hazel, big-ee, yo’ mad.
Someone steal yo’ beer,
ma-an? All right, ma-an.
Someone steal yo’ beer?
’Right, ma-an! Who steal yo’
beer?”
The sweat-varnished giant
was answerless ; he could feel
Toni’s eyes crawling like
scorpions on his back.
“Did ’taters steal yo’ beer,
ma-an? Did saucepan steal
yo’ beer? Why yo’ throw
saucepan, ma-an? Why jump
on ’taters?”
The eternal droning flowed
between his sentences.
“Did pickles take beer,
fellah? Why yo y break
pickles? Did pickles take yo’
beer?”
Loth’s insane, gerontic
logic scraping irritatingly
above the submerged murmur
continued endlessly; tears of
perplexity leapt from Hazel’s
chin. Now and then Felicite
moaned. Things crawled on
you, skilful foreign lice. One
by one you closed the port-
holes of your mind. Your
eyelids also closed. Did you
hear Toni move his eyes in the
direction of an instantly
silenced, instantly , impotent
Loth?
Rosaries . . . muttering . . .
Something jelly-eyed, cold-
hard-mouthed, flopped and
swished in the fo’c’stle.
Felicite moaned.
Toni’s eyes glittered.
The lice fed on.
Sleep.. . . sleep .. . sleep .. .
You awoke.
Cold.
You felt dawn though
electric-light still blazed
starkly: Rosaries hung plumb
from nails. The dead violin
lay on its back in a pond of
vinegar. Lewdly asleep,
purple-lipped, sprawled the
worn-out, dark animals.
Still half-drunk, you hobbled
stepwards, unable to avoid
slipping on pickle-chunks and
glass-triangles. Someone
watched through the reek, but
you did not turn to him whose
reptilian eyes unblinkingly
pursued you until your gutted
legs crossed the iron deck.
They chased you down the
gangway, and your self-
conscious shoes idiotically
slapped the pier-planks.
Level with the hunched
bollards dawn dragged its
saturated coat over the ghastly
furrows of the sea, the ghastly
fields of the sky. The sky—■
the sea. The sea was unclean,
cold-curdled, “fool of spooks.”
Remembering Felicite, you
dared not look at the sullen
ships, men-dirty, buttock-deep
in unescapable waters. The
sky—the sea —there was no
one about anywhere—no one.
Bloodless aniseed-stalks
bleakly twitched; the elms
were clotted with unhealthy
stupor.
Treasure Islands of a poet’s
blood adorned the roadway
outside Madame’s where, as
you limped by orgy-broken, a
scabby dog contemptuously
raised its hind-leg under the
nebulous skirts of Madame’s
ghost which was mewling
weakly beneath the lofty cast-
iron veranda:" -
“. . . don’t come back, you
baztard! ”
You never have ; you never
ever have.
The Hollidays
By Middy
“They lost their money at bridge last night."


to me to take too much account of
“movements,” at the expense of indi-
vidual writers. What real significance
have the Angry Penguins among all
these Happy Penguins of the anthology?
To some extent, however, these gaps in
the introduction are filled-in by the
“biocriticisms” which accompany each
writer’s contributions and which are
deft, courteous (with a little extremely
polite bowing right and left between
the editors) and’ so far as I have been
able to check them, reliable.
And, after all the complaints, well
might the poets —and the public —be
happy. If there is not enough of Mary
Gilmore, her “Nationality” and “Old
Botany Bay” are two very fine poems.
There is the whole of Brennan’s “The
Wanderer.” Shaw Neilson has, with
others, the essential and ever-magical
“The Orange Tree.” At least one of
my favorite McCrae poems is in, “Song
of the Rain,” and also that profound
and powerful “Fragment” about Caesar
and the collapse of civilisations.
It would be hard to complain of the
selection from Kenneth Slessor, when
it has both “Captain Dobbin” and
“Five Bells”; Fitz Gerald is likewise
most admirably represented with,
among others, “Heemskerck Shoals,”
the lighter “Transaction” and that
haunting poem “The Face of the
Waters.” Judith Wright is at her
richest with “Bullocky,” “The Bull,”
“South of My Days,” “Brothers and
Sisters” and “Woman to Man”; and
David Campbell, if one would prefer
to vary the selection, still makes a very
reasonable report on the climate around
Canberra with “Windy Gap.” “Spring
Hares,” “The Stockman” and “Winter
Stock Route.”
There is Hart-Smith’s “Bathysphere”
to compensate for the loss of “Colum-
bus”; good selections, similarly to com-
pensate for missing favorites, from
Kenneth Mackenzie and John Blight;
good selections from Roland Robinson,
A. D. Hope, James McAuley and
John Manifold. Personally I am very
glad to see again—fished up from long
ago in “The Bulletin”—D. P. McGuire’s
“Wet Afternoon”; and, from more
recent times and a variety of publica-
tions, such items as the Elizabeth
Riddell selection, Nan McDonald’s
“The Barren Ground.” Hal Porter’s
“Sheep,” Wolf Fairbridge’s “Consecra-
tion of the House,” Max Harris on
the “Tantanoola Tiger,” two most
curious poems by Eric Rolls, the. Ray
Mathew selection, Rosemary Dobson’s
“The Bystander” and “Chance Met,”
John Thompson’s tense “Married
Quarrel” and Vivian Smith’s “Bedlam
Hills,” full of cold, stony Tasmania.
It is a surprisingly fat book: the
Penguins have been generous with
space. If I have any clear, single
impression of the volume as a whole,
apart from its quality and its enjoy-
ability, it is simply of how excellently
Hugh McCrae and Shaw Neilson wrote
among the poets of the immediate past,
how excellently Kenneth Slessor, Judith
Wright and Robert D. Fitz Gerald write
today . . . which is hardly a discovery,
but always worth having impressed
upon one again, the more so when so
large an audience is going to become
acquainted with them.
Douglas Stewart.
An Indian Novel
The Guide (Methuen) continues the
series of novels which R. K. Narayan
has for many years been writing about
the people of Malgudi, a southern
Indian town said to be a fictional
re-creation of Mysore, where the
novelist lives.
Broadly speaking, nearly every
Narayan novel is dominated by one
character, usually a youth growing to
manhood, and. with a deceptively
gentle comedy, reveals some aspect of
Indian society through the confusions
and difficulties of the young man in
coming to terms with it.' “The Guide,”
which js the finest example of his art
so far. follows much the same pattern,
but that should not be taken to mean
that Narayan lacks, scope or variety.
Overseas critics have compared him
with Chekov and Gogol. Though it
must be admitted that he is closer to
the Russians than to any French, Eng-
lish or American writer, the compari-
son is misleading. Narayan is Indian
through and through; and. novel by
novel, he has developed his very
personal talents to the point where he
stands quite alone among modern
comic writers.
The new novel consists of two stories
in counterpoint, each with the same
central character. One is about Raju’s
childhood, his life as a tourist-guide in
Malgudi, his adultery with Rosie the
dancer, his material success as her
manager, his irresponsibility and flabbi-
ness of character, his stupid attempt at
forgery, his trial and imprisonment.
The other shows him on his release.
Hungry and tired, he flings himself
down on the steps of a riverside shrine,
wondering what his next lurk will be.
A passing peasant mistakes him for a
holy contemplative and asks his ad-
vice on a domestic problem. Raju
answers with a few worn platitudes; the
peasant takes the advice, and his prob-
lem is accidentally solved. Impressed,
the whole village flocks to Raju, bring-
ing gifts of food, content just to sit
and gaze at him. Here is Raju’s lurk
—ready-made and perfectly legal.
At first he is embarrassed by the
simple devotion of these people and
the way they treat his every gnomic
and enigmatic utterance as a gem of
holy wisdom; then he gets quite
wrapped in the situation. His advice
is asked on every conceivable matter;
and by a mixture of luck and cunning
he manages to live up to his reputation.
Then a drought ravages the area,
and the village idiot, misinterpreting a
remark of Raju’s, gives the villagers
the idea that Raju is going to fast until*
the rain-god relents and breaks the
drought.
So Raju finds himself surrounded by
shifts of adoring peasants, food and
escape both cut off, and expected to
stand knee-deep in the river and pray
for hours to the skies. He tries to
shatter the people’s faith in him by
confessing his sins to their leader, but
the leader couldn’t care less about
them: his faith, like his people’s, is
unconditional. And it is a faith so
simple and powerful that it can change
even the would-be exploiter. Sustained
by it, Raju accepts what has been
thrust upon him: —
For the first time in his life he
was making an honest effort, for the
first time he Was learning the thrill
of full application, outside money
and love ; for the first time he was
doing a thing in which he was not
personally interested... ,it gave him
new strength.
News of his fast spreads all over
southern India, and people swarm up
to watch him, some seeking faith, others
mere sensation. In the end the
fast beats Raju, but he has already
achieved a salvation: the people’s faith
has both re-created,and destroyed him.
But there is much more to “The
Guide” than a fine plot. It is
shrewdly!! if somewhat jerkily, con-
structed so that the story of Raju’s
earlier life underlines the ironies of
the riverside story. It is full of spare
and graceful word-pictures of Indian
life; it has occasional flashes of poetry;
and its prose—Narayan writes in Eng-
lish —is a delight to both eye and ear.
Such a novel says more about India
and its people than a dozen “Inside
Indias” would. Maybe it even helps
us to understand why the author, living
in a society riddled with poverty and
social injustice, can be gentle and
tolerant while so many writers in more
comfortable countries are edgy and
narrow-minded.
John Abernethy.
English Folksongs
One of the principal rewards of the
folksong. English or Australian, is
the charm of the unexpected. You
never know, as in more sophisticated
poetry you do so often know, what the
obscure, simple, anonymous author is
going to say next.
That is because he speaks naturally,
from the soil or from the heart; and


when, as frequently he does, he speaks
in lines of the most vivid and surpris-
ing poetry, that too comes naturally to
his lips and the surprise never seems,
as it does in much of Dylan Thomas
(whose best lyrics come very close to
the freshness of folk-poetry) a self-
conscious literary artifice. It is for this
reason, the naive or sometimes exquisite
charm of the words —the same motive
that inspired the latest collection of
“Old Bush Songs” in Australia—that
James Reeves has published The Idiom
of the People (Heinemann), an
anthology of 150 English folksongs
from the massive collection of Cecil
Sharp.
James Reeves makes the point that
collectors in the past, including to some
extent Sharp himself, valued the tunes
above the words, and when they did
publish the words felt obliged—regret-
fully in Sharp’s case—to bowdlerise
them ruinously. The tunes and the
words are, of course, equally valuable
and, ideally, both should be published
simultaneously, as in the Oxford
“Book of Carols.”
But that is an expensive and compli-
cated business, and this sort of separate
publication has at least the advantage
of re-establishing the value of the
words. Forty of the songs here have
never been printed before; all have had
their “original” words —not really very
bawdy, but delightfully fresh and
natural—restored; and there can be no
doubt about the charm, and sometimes
the great beauty, of the best of them.
Take, for instance, the altogether sur-
prising words and cadences of “Gossip
Joan,” a song which dates back at least
to Restoration times and probably long
before them:—
Good morning Gossip Joan
Where are you going a walking
I’m going in a he he, a he he, a he he
And a belly full of drink
O God save Joan
Now my old hen she got a brood
Just under a hackney saddle
And there she sat for fifteen weeks, a
fifteen weeks, a fifteen weeks
Till all her eggs were addled
O God save Joan.
Or the extremely precise first stanza
of “An Alderman’s Lady”:—
Her master came to her one morning
To play and diddle with her knee
Many fine presents he brought her
Saying Nancy my dearest love me.
Or, obviously descended from an old
Border ballad, the lyrical imagery and
movement of “Blow Away the Morn-
ing Dew”:—
And it’s aye the dewy morning
Blow the wind I ho
Blow the wind of a dew morning
How sweet the winds do blow.
He gazed high he gazed low
He gave an underlook
And there he saw a fair pretty maid
A bathing in the brook.
Cecil Sharp, who was born in Lon-
don in 1859, visited Australia in the
course of his musical career, and,
though there is no evidence that he col-
lected any songs in this country, as he
afterwards did in America as well as
in England, it seems faintly possible
that one of the pieces, which rather
puzzles his present editor, has at least
had some Australian influence upon
it. This is “Down by the River Side,”
a ballad of seduction, in which there
occurs the stanza: —
My name is Captain Thunderbolt
To you I’ll never marry
I met the glazier’s daughter dear
Down by the river side.
James Reeves observes that “glazier”
is probably “grazier,” and remarks of
Captain Thunderbolt that he is
“supposedly the devil”; but he was
also, of course, a bushranger.
Reeves also prints one of the many
versions of “Van Diemen’s Land” and
includes, in “The Rambling Boy,” a
version of the song which became, or
became muddled with, “Tarpaulin
Jacket,” and so in Australia developed
into “Wrap me up in my stockwhip
and blanket”—a song which Hugh
Anderson has investigated.
One other point, not of similarity
but of contrast with Australian folk-
songs, may be noted. These English
rustics who provide the bulk of James
Reeves’s material were not interested,
as were most of the colonial rhymers,
in fleas, flies, sheep, heat and grog; nor,
as were the Celtic balladists, in witches
and the supernatural; but in only one
thing—sex. It would seem that
Theodore and John Cowper Powys,
whose rustics always displayed an
equally charming single-mindedness,
were not so far out after all.
Cafe de Paris
Charles Graves’s history of the
London Cafe de Paris, Champagne and
Chandeliers (Odhams), might be
recommended as an extension-course
for students of society-pages.
Begun in a London back-street under
a picture-show by a Danish headwaiter,
the business hovered over the gutter
until the Dane remembered an erst-
while patron of one of his former
places, the Prince of Wales. There are
several versions of how the Prince
began his patronage, but there seems
no doubt about the first night, when,
the Prince being expected, a waterpipe
broke and flooded the cafe floor; so
that on the Prince’s arrival the stairs
were lined with sandbags and the
dance-floor was canvas rubbed vigor-
ously by the waiters with French chalk.
The floor, the Prince told the Dane,
was the best he had ever danced on.
So began the post-World War I
renewal of the traditional liaison be-
tween the British aristocracy and the
variety-stage. On the one hand the
book is filled with the names of famous
variety-turns which are now household
words; on the other it is filled with
great old English double-barrelled
names few have ever heard of.
There is something a little unkind in
this night-club’s proud reputation as a
place where entertainers famous in
other places were broken, allowed to
walk away in a polite silence: one
warms to Fay Marbe, the American
girl who received this treatment, but
who insisted on working-out her con-
tract, though they put her on early in
the evening (no one who was anyone
went to the Cafe de Paris early in the
evening, and no one who was not any-
one went to the Cafe de Paris) to sing
with the band to a room bare of all but
tables and waiters.
Here the Prince of Wales would call
the Duke of Kent to his table for a few
stem, admonitory words; here an old
millionaire would come for his supper,
dance with one of the hostesses (strictly
forbidden to go home with the boys—
she who did, and held an eminent
lawyer to ransom for his trousers, was
immediately sacked), write the girl a
cheque for £lOO and toddle off to bed;
here none less than Jimmy Edwards
discarded his professorial make-up and
appeared in a dinner-jacket . . .
Bombed during the war, the cafe
reopened, a centre of glamor where on
a Dietrich first-night the jewellery
worn might total £140,000; but the
times were changing; it had been a
drawing-room for a class of no more
than a few thousand, and the taxes and
its policy of presenting the best eventu-
ally beat it:—
The Cafe de Paris cost £3500 a
week to run In addition there
was a premium to be paid for insur-
ance against the non-appearance of
a star. This premium ranged from
£75 to £2OO a week. Since the star’s
salary was not less than £lOOO a
week it meant that, merely to break
even, the Cafe had to gross £5500
a week.... to take no less a sum
than £286,000 a year before it showed
a profit.
Then Tallulah Bankhead flopped (at
£2OOO a week) and Helen Traubel had
more flimsy audiences . . . and after
33 years “the Cafe de Paris was put
into swaddling clothes to emerge as a
centre for private functions, dress
shows, charity affairs, auditions,
Masonic dinners.”
And so Goodbye, as Charles Graves’s
brother Robert said, To All That.


#ll
■
: &
Sim
T*sm.
• %
•-.
r**,
m
. .
Si
m
\
v % a
r p > §i|
I»1
£ y>r ySSS&s '%&&.<'?>&:'■ SsSi
i ;-£.*> ft i *. «
1 -hJ '
s ■ £3. - *?
*; » 4
f
y
-
HS
«g§! -
•■C; *
K -•>!
.
■m
ERG TYPE 2 EPH 27 2-volt Home Lighting Battery. Suitable for 12-V,
24-V, 32-V, 56-V and 110-V installations. Capacity : 225 ampere hours.
THE NEW ERG
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY
The transparent polystyrene con-
tainer enables you to SEE how
much acid there is in the battery.
Inbuilt floating gravity
balls indicate state of
charge of cells.
Double insulation (including
glass wool) prevents shed-
ding, ensuring longer life.
GUARANTEED FOR 3 YEARS
ERG BATTERIES Pty. Ltd.
156 GOULBURN ST., SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTED BY:
Erg Batteries Pty. Ltd. - - SYDNEY
Erg Batteries Pty. Ltd. - - BRISBANE
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty. Ltd. MELBOURNE
David L. Prescoff « - - - ADELAIDE
Erg Distribufors LAUNCESTON
i. R. Roe & Company - - - DARWIN
Walter Sully & Co. Pty. Ltd. BROKEN HILL
