

The Bulletin
Half Holdens —page 44
Wednesday , November 5, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
ltegistered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"Your didgeridoo seems to be a bit out of tune."


B E A
successful
WRITER!
If YOU have the urge to Write and a love
for expressing yourself in words, you can learn
to write Successful Short Stories, Articles,
Written Sketches, Radio Talks, Pars., Verse, etc.
“During the past six months my Acceptances
have returned me over £200.”
“I am pleased to report further Successes since
Les. 10. This makes £53 in hand with more
to come.”
“I list hereunder my Acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“Mr earnings from my Writing total almost
£70.”
“I very much enjoyed my Freelance Journalism
study and more than paid for the Course with
Articles accepted.”
“During the Course I sold five Stories, which
more than paid for my fees.”
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 140 Castlereagrh
St., Sydney; 200 Adelaide St., Brisbane;
21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St.,
Perth.
—— CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON- —'
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any olili-
Jition vour Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE .(.SB 21081
UOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
tee only if success fuL
u i n
BOOKS BOUGHT
We visit you in the City and Suburbs
Immediate Cash Payment
Valuations made for Probate
BW 7874
(After Hours JV 1131)
BERKELOUW
111 Kins Street, (Between Pitt and
CnstloreagU Streets), Sydney.
The Red Page
PRINGLE ON SYDNEY
It is quite possible for an Australian
writer to go to England and not write
a book about it. It does not seem
necessary, somehow, to describe the
Tower of London or even to criticise
the girls—all of whom, in any case, are
wonderful. But it is hardly possible for
an English writer visiting Australia to
maintain the same discreet silence.
After all, he has ventured into far
and perilous places—very likely among
cannibals —and, like a traveller in
Darkest Africa or Tibet, is expected to
make a report on them. And then if he
discovers patches of civilisation in this
barbarous continent, as John Douglas
Pringle does in Australian Accent
(Chatto and Windus), he has the
pleasure of announcing them to his
astonished audience.
Australia, moreover, stands in a
special relationship to Great Britain.
It is like the prodigal son. And when
the father, so to speak, visits us lying
among the corn-husks in the pigsty,
he has a unique opportunity to pat
us on the head for what we have done
well, and at the same time, for what
we have done ill, give us a jolly good
trouncing.
This, with vim, not to say with
relish. Pringle certainly does. Our
girls, alas, all walk badly and. though
some are pretty, when they open their
mouths to speak they whine like saws.
Worst of all—though really one must
assure the critic that quite enough sin
goes on —they are not erotic when they
lie about on the beaches. Some of our
politicians are corrupt; the suburbs of
Bondi, Dover Heights, Manly and even
Mosman (there will be gnashing of
teeth in Raglan Street) are “crimes
against Nature hardly paralleled even
in Britain”; “The Bulletin” is not what
it used to be when Pringle read it
regularly seventy years ago; and
Sydney “Sun” and “Mirror” are “two
of the worst and most vulgar papers in
the world.”
Finally—it would be a pity to wallow
too long in our punishment; unless by
any chance it pains Pringle more to
inflict it than us to receive it —the
entire nation is suffering at heart from
“a sense of loneliness and disappoint-
ment.” This (rather than a spirit of
adventure) is proved by the outback
paintings of Sidney Nolan. We must
all, of course, secretly be longing to
get back to England ... or Scotland.
It is as good a trouncing, mixed with
as much genuine appreciation, as we
have had for a long time.
There was one English traveller, a
writer of fame and distinction, who
came out and wrote a book about us
not so long ago and included in his
book a chapter on Australian literature,
thus proving that he had thoroughly
surveyed the country; and this chapter,
to my certain knowledge, was con-
cocted from one single issue of “The
Bulletin” which I gave him. Aus-
tralian novelists were those who
happened to be reviewed that week;
Australian poets and short-story
writers were those who happened to
be printed that week; art and the
theatre were what happened to be
covered that week on “Sundry Shows.”
It was a nice compliment to “The
Bulletin,” but it was not really a very
thorough survey. In fact I am afraid
it has made me a little cynical about
famous travel-writers.
Heaven forbid that anyone should
accuse Pringle of a similar irresponsi-
bility. On the contrary, the first and
only time I met him in Sydney —he
recently edited the “Herald” for five
years—he was speaking about Aus-
tralian literature at an English Associa-
tion dinner and, even if there were
some gasps at his irreverence to Henry
Handel Richardson, displayed a know-
ledge of the subject that would put
most Australians to shame. While he
was editing the “Herald” he made every
effort to improve both its standards of
criticism and the quality of the poetry
it published, and I owe him a personal
debt of gratitude for some very con-
siderable service he gave to a piece of
my writing at one time.
But I do think that, as indeed he
practically admits in his foreword, his
book suffers to some extent from the
comparative shortness of the period he
spent in Australia.
While he was editing the “Herald”
an unsigned article on Australian litera-
ture, obviously of Pringle’s authorship,
appeared in the London “Times.” He
said that Australian writers suffered
because there were no cafes where they
could sit and talk about their work —
“no Left Bank” —and this, though with
all respect, very much amused all the
writers I know. Pringle just didn’t
understand the casual and individualis-
tic way of life which Sydney writers
have developed because it suits them
best. He went on to say, if I remember
rightly, that the best Australian poets
were James McAuley and A. D. Hope,
who, by a happy coincidence, were
writing for him in the “Herald” at the
time; the best critics were A. D. Hope
and Kylie Tennant, who also happened
to be writing for the “Herald”; and
the best cartoonist was George Molnar,
who by the same happy coincidence,
was, the “Herald’s” cartoonist. I
thought that this was natural, but naive.
It is not that all these people have not
their claims to distinction; but one was
not accustomed to think of the
“Herald’s” Saturday supplement as
quite such a coruscation.
The same essay, or a variation of it,
is reprinted in “Australian Accent,”
and I must say that I think Pringle
is still somewhat misled by his “Herald”
associations, by his personal preference
for an academic kind of poetry and by,
perhaps not a lack of knowledge of the
development of Australian poetry, but
at least by a failure to give full con-
sideration to anything that interferes
with his favorite theories. I suppose
it is true up to a point that Hope,
McAuley and Harold Stewart have led
a “counter-revolution” against national-
ism in Australian poetry, but I would
prefer to say rather that each one in
his own way has added a new note to
Australian poetry. Except for the
Jindyworobaks and the Angry Penguins,
who hardly existed to be slain, I have
not seen many heads rolling to make
a “counter-revolution”; nor have I
seen great armies of counter-revolu-
tionaries marching to any spectacular
{Continued on page 58)


Company Meeting
TREETS ICE CREAM LT
RECORD SALES—HIGHER NET EARNINGS—FURTHER MARKET EXPANSION
The Chairman of Streets Ice Cream Ltd., Mr. K. Wiseman, at the 24th Annual
Meeting held in Wollongong on 31st October, said :
I welcome you to our 24th Annual General
Meeting and on behalf of the Directors I thank
you for your interest which is very much
appreciated.
Before reviewing the fiscal results generally,
I should like to comment briefly on the Con-
solidated Accounts.
THE BALANCE SHEET
The Profit for the year of £179.847 was
£8,154 higher than last year and was arrived
at after charging £2,510 for Directors’ Fees
and £83,183 for depreciation. The annual
upward trend experienced since 1952 was con-
tinued and the profit is the highest in the
history of the Company. When considered in
the light of increased manufacturing and
distributing costs, drought incidence and
general economic problems, the result is a
very excellent one and indicates that the
efforts being made by the Company towards
the absorption of higher costs in more effi-
cient use of men and machines are proving
successful.'
The Report of the Directors shows that sales
effected by the Company and its subsidiaries
reached a new high of £2,Q17,0G7. However,
the expenses of manufacturing and distribut-
ing our products increased in greater propor-
tion and, as a consequence, the net profit
only increased by £8,184, or 4.7%. This was
nevertheless a very satisfactory result having
in mind that the Company is passing through
an era of rapid expansion. This involves the
incurrence of expenditure and labour costs
which are not immediately income producing
but which will prove beneficial after the
derivative sales have yielded sufficient to
enable the expenses to be written off and the
overheads to be absorbed.
The sales and profit figures indicate the
intensive efforts contributed by the Executive
when considered in relation to the general
expansion. The capital expenditure for the
year totalled approximately £303.0(55 and the
principal details comprising additions to
premises, plant, motor vehicles and general
equipment were as follows:
Turrella £177,234
Corrimal (including acquisition of
Wollongong Cold Storage Co.) .. £37,312
Farramatta £47,078
Country Branches, including New-
castle, Gosford, Goulburn, Quean-
beyan, Nowra and Moruya .. .. £45,070.
The work involved in these undertakings
was implemented notwithstanding the normal
work of seeking and satisfying an increased
volume of sales. It is expected that consider-
able benefit will be derived from the new
establishments during the next few years and
that they will provide additional employment
coupled with a contribution towards the
general expansion of secondary industry.
We feel that by virtue of its policy of con-
serving working capital this Company is well
placed to meet this test and to take advantage
of increased opportunities as and when they
come its way.
ASSET MOVEMENTS
An explanatory table of the asset movements
has been included in the Annual Report but by
way of further detail I would mention that
Freehold Land and Buildings increased by
£118.273; Plant and Machinery by £72,259;
Stocks by £37,900; Debtors by £17,255 and Cash
and Bonds by £25,341.
LIABILITIES
Under this heading the most interesting
disclosure from the Stockholders’ x>oint of view
is that Stockholders’ Funds increased by
£103,037 after providing for the Final Dividend
to be declared tonight; also that current Lia-
bilities which increased by only £10,291 are
covered almost 14 times by the book value of
current assets.
SHARE VALUES
At date of preparation, the market value of
the Notes was 43/3 and the market value of
the Stock Units was 57/6. The net tangible
asset backing of each Stock Unit of £1 cal-
culated on the year’s figures was 40/9. Last
year this figure was 36/11. We have changed
the method of computation this year by making
allowance for the recommended Final Divi-
dend thus adopting the more conservative
basis and we will continue so to do in future
comparisons.
It will thus be seen that, the market and
asset values of the Stock Units and of the
Notes indicate an investment of considerable
worth to the Stockholders and to the Note-
holders. The year’s work resulted in the
capital investment of each Stockholder being
considerably improved both in value and
security and I am sure this will be appreci-
ated by all concerned.
SALES
As previously mentioned, the Company
earned a record £2,017,007 from the sale of its
products. Last year, the sales totalled
£1,701.858 so that there was a gain of £315,209
or 18.5%. This augmented turnover was of
great benefit in providing a buffer against
increased costs and enabled us to show the
increased profit notwithstanding the initial
expenses associated with the development of
new markets.
The Directors are constantly giving atten-
tion to the introduction of new lines, the im-
provement of existing ones, and the develop-
ment of manufacturing and distributing opera-
tions so that the maximum amount of profit
will be derived from every sale. By this
action it is hoped to keep prices at existing
levels in the interests of turnover and only to
pass on increased costs where there is no
alternative.
In furtherance of this policy, we again sent
two of our senior executive officers to the
United States to investigate several matters
on which specific information was required.
They have recently returned and their reports
will result in increased technical knowledge
with consequent savings.
DIVIDEND
Against the profit for the year, the Directors
paid an Interim Dividend of 0% which
absorbed £32.049. As will have been ascer-
tained from the printed Report, it is recom-
mended that, there be paid a Final Dividend
of 8% making 14% in total percentage and
absorbing £70,182 in total amount.
THE SUBSIDIARIES
In addition to Lynam's Ice Cream rty.
Limited and Ice Cream Messengers Pty.
Limited, we added Wollongong Cold Storage
Pty. Limited as a tliird wholly owned sub-
sidiary to the group during this year. This
arose from the purchase of the Wollongong
Cold Storage Company which previously
operated cold rooms at Wollongong and
Bellambi and distributed opposition lines
made by Sydney manufacturers. We formed
the new Company for the purpose and are now
continuing the conduct of this business on the
South Coast and Tablelands distributing
frozen confections of our manufacture and
frozen foods of popular brands including
Birdseye products for which we have accepted
an agency in this area. The results of each
of these subsidiaries were very satisfactory
and they continue to prove very valuable
adjuncts to the business. Ice Cream
Messengers Pty. Limited was able to take
over a vending run on the North Shore and
the increased business showed a marked result
in the year's figures. Our thanks are due
to the Managers and the Staff of the sub-
sidiary companies for another year of success-
ful effort.
TRADING CONDITIONS
These were not as favourable as the con-
ditions experienced in the previous year. The
first half of the trading year was marked by
hot, dry weather of drought proportions and
this naturally increased sales to an unusual
level. The second half was more temperate
with a consequent reduction in the compara-
tive rate of sales. In addition to the usual
upward trend in the cost of materials there
were the overhead expenses incidental to ex-
pansion with the result that whilst sales and
net profit were above previous figures, never-
theless the percentage of profit to each £1 of
sales was less favourable.
CURRENT PROSPECTS
The sales for the opening three months of
the current year have exceeded those for the
same period last year but the profit margin
per pound money is not quite so favourable
as has already been mentioned. However,
nearly all of the current expenditure on addi-
tional premises and new plant has been com-
pleted and it is anticipated that the greater
capacity for production so provided will yield
increased profits for the current year. The
time and money directed towards expansion
last year will now be concentrated on pro-
duction and sales. In addition, plans are now
in hand for the development of new lines and
production of essential materials for which we
were previously dependent on outside sources.
The Directors feel confident that these moves
will be beneficial and (hat satisfactory figures
for the current year can be anticipated unless
some unforeseen trading conditions of an
adverse nature should supervene.
DIRECTORS
I feel that the results are a sufficient tribute
to the work of the Directors and I thank them
on your behalf for their continued interest
and valuable contributions.
CONCLUSION
In concluding my Address, I wish to convey
the thanks of the Directors and of the Stock-
holders to the Secretary. Mr. M. W. Allen;
to the General Manager, Mr. A. J. Woodbury,
and to every one of the employees for their
contributions towards the achievement of a
record year.
Finally. I thank the Stockholders for their
wholehearted support both in the operation of
the Company and in the consumption of its
products.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, November 5,1958
Vol 79—No. 4108
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adama
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
A SENSIBLE POLICY
CO much of Menzies’s policy-speech
as could be heard above the din
caused by the Communist rowdies, who
exhibited the extent of their respect for
free speech at his campaign-opening,
ran close to what was expected.
As he remarked, it would have been
unreasonable to expect that, having
brought - down a Budget covering
financial proposals for the current year,
he should alter it to outbid Dr. Evatt’s
picture of the Promised Land. Certain
elements in the press, including the
Sydney “Herald,” are disappointed in
the speech why some of them
are ranged with Dr. Evatt and his
mixed bag of promises is a fifty-
thousand - pound question but,
generally speaking, it is likely to be
received as an honest and sober
summing-up of what has been done and
what can be done.
The catalogue of performances was
salutary in the light of the assumption
by the A.L.P. leaders that they are, or
have been, the only fountain of bene-
ficence, and that the lot of the wretched
toiler under the Menzies Government
has been one of want, misery and
unemployment, with more travail to
come. His list of concessions—child-
endowment and its extension to the
first child, free milk for schoolchildren,
educational-assistance schemes and the
new broad plan for the widening of
opportunities for university education,
the medical-benefits scheme (with free
service to pensioners), free lifesaving
drugs, the anti-t.b. campaign, the
aged-persons’ homes scheme and the
tax-concessions to pensioners provides
a shop-window full of achieved realities
for the people whom Dr. Evatt and his
curious followers are trying to buy.
The experience of New Zealand also
provides a shop-window in which
electors can gaze on the ruin which
can be brought about by Labor poli-
ticians who are concerned with an
election only as what Mr. Menzies
calls “a conflict of self-interest, with
the prize going to the highest bidder.”
The N.Z. promisers were not half so
rash as Dr. Evatt, but there are few
Maorilanders who have not been
disillusioned by the aftermaths.
The Prime Minister’s promises were
all conditioned by the current circum-
stances of world markets and the export
trade, which are certainly not bright.
He has promised to set-up an
independent public investigation of
taxation laws—a most important pledge
-—to reduce taxation when possible
consistently with the need to guard
against inflation, and especially to
improve, when it is feasible, tax-
concessions to parents for school fees
and equipment. Subject to the same
conditions, he promised to expand
existing benefits for families and
qualify the means-test for pensioners
as occasion offers and amplify the
existing policy of encouraging personal
enterprise in homebuilding rather than
fostering the Socialist idea of regi-
mented construction favored in N.S.W.,
and from which the odors that arise
from time to time are anything but
pleasant.
Thb only really new things in the
programme are the promises to intro-
duce marriage and divorce legislation,
about which there is no party conflict,
and to set-up an expert committee to
advise on the introduction of decimal
coinage, the need for which the Gov-
ernment accepts in principle —it is,
incidentally, just a century since the
agitation for it began seriously in
Australia.
/'AN the major issue of unemploy-
ment it can be said that this country
has less than any other, with the prob-
able exception of France —this despite
the joint efforts of Dr. Evatt and Mr.
Parkinson, of the Central Committee
of the Communist Party, to prove to
the contrary at a meeting last week. Its
standards of living and comfort at the
end of nine years in office of the
Menzies Government are high by world
standards.
Having regard to patchy world con-
ditions. Australia’s are indeed so good
and comfort so much a commonplace
—in the face of receding world prices
—that it is difficult for a Government
or any leader to offer, in any spirit ofe
responsibility, much more in the way
of Welfare State benefits likely to
appeal to voters. Indeed, Dr. Evatt
himself a few years ago seemed to
realise this, since for a long time his
emphasis was not on more hand-out but
on more loaf. This, indeed, is the issue
on which he and most union-leaders
are now to some extent split, the
A.C.T.U. and some of the unions being
more ready to plump for a reduced
working-week and more time for fishing
and “the dogs” in preference to more
Welfare State bribes.
However, the gap in aspirations
between the Wizard of Hunter and
the A.C.T.U. and Communist leaders is
rapidly closing, since the former is
always willing to pile something more
on the list for the Christmas-tree even
if not on the Christmas-tree itself.
A/fR. MENZIES says he is “opti-
A mistic” about the situation, since
the American recession, which has had
a marked depressive effect on world
conditions, appears to be lifting, and
since he believes that his own trade
and development policies will assist
recovery. If he were not an optimist
he certainly would not have budgeted
on the existing basis for the year, with
a structure geared to easy change in the
event of improvement in wool and
metal prices and balance-of-payments.
At present there is no evidence of
likely change on such a scale. Indeed,
the forecast of the Department of Trade
issued on the day on which his speech
was made was that the overseas trade-
deficit this year would eat-up £264
million, or about half the current over-
seas reserves.
To keep employment at its present
level while maintaining a continuing
inflow of immigrants, to maintain taxa-
tion at existing levels with the wool
prices down 40 per cent, and metals in
the doldrums, to encourage a continu-
ing flow of new developmental capital
from outside, and to keep the levels of
individual prosperity where they are
in the face of lower returns is task
enough for any Government without
committing itself to any fresh burdens.
Moreover, no Government in its
senses would plump for any radical
programme on the eve of the submis-
tion to the country of the proposals for
Constitutional reform which have been
put forward by the joint-parties Consti-
tutional committee. These will cer-
tainly be put into legislative form
during the next year or so (at least if
the Menzies Government is returned to
office), and may in many respects alter
the whole inner economic and political
structure of Australia and possibly
revolutionise, the distribution of Com-
monwealth and State powers.
Very little has been said about this
matter in either policy-speech, since
both Government and Opposition are
holding their fire. When these Consti-
tutional reforms come up for discussion,
then the real issues of the present period
will be discussed. In the meantime, any-
body who is prepared, as the A.L.P.
leaders are, to plan ahead on the basis
of lavish promises to give the electors
a drunken-sailor handout of everything,
including the kitchen-sink, without
regard either to market recession or
what the financial relationships between
States and Commonwealth may be in
three years’ time, is a phony or an
irresponsible.


“WHEN ARE Y' GOING TO PUT VALUE BACK INTO THE POUND?"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Nominations
The Federal elections have attracted a
record number of nominations for the
Reps.—4ll, against 315 at the 1955 poll
—the increase largely due to the influx
of D.L.P. candidates, though the usual
lot of gentlemen who think they might
scramble in between the party cracks
is smaller than normal.
There are 89 nominations for the
Senate.
Every Representatives seat is being
contested. In N.S.W. the A.L.P. is fighting
every one of the 46 seats, and it has an
unwelcome 47th candidate in C. A.
Morgan, who has been persona non
grata with the party because of his atti-
tude to Dr. Evatt and his actions con-
nected with the Browne - Fitzpatrick
incident, but who has nominated, with
the support of his branch officials, and
in spite of his loss of endorsement, as
“locally endorsed A.L.P. candidate.” As
one who knows, he dwells on “the
extremist and disruptive elements . . . .
the creeping tyranny” which have “in-
filtrated into Labor branches.”
The other States are nearly in the
same position as regards A.L.P. and
Government candidates the Govern-
ment has a man for every seat. For
the first time in history no candidate
has been returned unopposed, but the
most interesting point is that the D.L.P.
has been able to muster-up candidates
for all but fewer than a dozen seats,
and where it has not contested the in-
ference nearly always seems to be that
it is satisfied that it can depend on the
A.L.P. man.
Considering the flood of candidates,
the Independents are remarkable for
their record scarcity.
The Communists have had their usual
luck in the ballot for places on the Senate
paper. It has full teams along with
the other parties in all States save
Tasmania.
It seems a negation of democracy that
the Commonwealth should have to treat
as a “party” a concern which was at
the heart of the Soviet spy system as
revealed by the Petrov Commission,
which denies that it keeps either lists of
members or accounts, and whose leader
at this election sat in a conference of
the Russian Communist party in Moscow
three or four years ago and pictured
Australia as a land of starving terrorism.
It is doubly unpalatable that such a
party should stand at the top" of the
voting-list in the largest State when one
of its candidates is Rupert Lockwood,
who was found by the Petrov Commis-
sion to have sold for £3O and some
brandy to the Soviet spy system a docu-
ment which the three judges agreed to
be “a farrago of fact, falsity and filth”
containing reports about a great number
of his fellow countrymen, “many scurri-
lous and defamatory (some of a filthy
nature), in some cases pointlessly so,
since they refer to persons long dead.”
The impudence of people of this type
in calling for votes is not dictated by
any hope of winning but by the hope of
gathering Senate preferences for Dr.
Evatt, whose policy they support to the
hilt in foreign affairs.
On the whole the results of the poll
might turn out somewhat differently
from that expected. The Government has
had its normal bad luck in the Senate
draw —it is last of the greater parties in
N.S.W., last of all in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania, but
in Western Australia only is it at the top.
The D.L.P. might easily win four
Senate seats, though on the face of the
situation if its preferences go as advised
by its headquarters, the Government
should secure control.
Army Week
[By “R.R.D.”]
it was a stroke of imagination to set
aside one week when the people of New
South Wales could get to know the Army.
After all, their sons are liable to National
Service call-up and their taxes pay for
the upkeep of the Army, so it is only
right that citizens should see something
of the modern Army. Army week
recently ended, and, although it may not
have met with all the success expected,
there can be few people, in Sydney at
any rate, who did not come into contact
with at least one aspect of the week’s
activities, and that is a gain.
It’s easy to criticise the Army’s appa-
rent lack of publicity-sense. But the
Army has no money specially allotted
for the purpose of splashing itself all
over the pages of the newspapers, so
must rely to a large extent on the good-
will of the daily press to keep its activi-
ties before the public. In peace-time,
admittedly, the soldiers’ trade may seem
a dull one. It hasn’t the news value,
for instance, of recent political con-
troversies or even that of the betrothal
of popular film-stars. Nevertheless, the
Digger has an appeal which Australia
will never forget—except at its peril.
Perhaps the week wasn’t wisely chosen.
It was Health Week and United Nations
Week and included the anniversary of
Trafalgar as well. So at first sight it
seemed to hold no definite link with the
Army. One’s first choice for Army
Week would be those starting either with
Anzac Day or Armistice Day. The argu-
ment against these dates might be that
they commemorate the dead of the two
great wars and that they should there-
fore be left sacred. Perhaps the Diggers
who made the supreme sacrifice might
answer differently if they could speak
now. They died for their country ; the
Army lives to carry on the task that they
started and fulfilled so well.
If those dates are unacceptable, then
the Waratah Festival seems as good a
week as any to link with Army Week.
The public is then in festive mood, and
the music and color which the Army can
provide would add to the fun of the fair,
and at the same time draw the public’s
interest towards the need for an Army
which the public .knows and trusts.
Whatever the answer may be, one thing
is clear. Army Week should continue,
and must achieve its aim.
Inflation and Socialisation
Dr. Evatt has been voluble and
emphatic in blaming the Govern-
ment because the purchasing - power
of social - service hand - outs had
been progressively reduced by “the
Government’s inflation policy . . . .
which had reduced the purchasing-power
of the £ to a relatively greater extent
than the currency of any other Western
democracy.” But he has produced his
own inflation policy under which he
intends to pile onto the taxpayers’
shoulders huge additional amounts of
non-productive hand-outs to the civil
service and pensioners while drying-up
exterior investment by reducing interest-
rates through the competition of the
Commonwealth Bank.
The latter is an inference, incidentally,
that that bank will be fully politically
controlled and a hint of the millenium
to come as predicted by his deputy-
leader, Mr. Arthur Calwell, on October
11, 1950:
The Menzies Government may be the
Government of the country, but we are
the ringmasters... .In the course of time
the Commonwealth Bank will be the only
bank in Australia. By competition it will
force the private banks out of existence,
and thus the private banking system will
be nationalised without the necessity to pay
compensation to the private banks.
When this is read with the same gentle-
man’s expressed aspiration that the time
would soon come when Australia might
be a one-party (Labor) State, there need
be little doubt about the real aims of
the “democratic socialism” which lies
buried under the bribes of the Labor
policy-speech, and which Dr. Evatt so
consistently extols outside election
campaigns.
Spare a Pint?
One of the most remarkable achieve-
ments of modern medical science has
been the development to near-perfection
of blood-transfusion. The human' body
holds about 12 or 13 pints of blood,
and it is only a few decades since the loss
of a few pints of blood meant certain
death. It still means death if blood of
the right type can’t be injected into the
veins of the victim to replace what he
has lost.
Blood cannot be made in a laboratory,
let alone mass-produced ; the only factory
in which it can be produced is the human
body. The blood which saves the life of
the victim of an accident, a woman in
childbirth, a “blue”' baby or a patient
undergoing a major operation has first to
be given voluntarily by someone else.
Any healthy person can spare an occa-
sional pint of blood, and the Red Cross
Society has built-up throughout Australia
a blood-transfusion service to which
thousands of “donors” regularly contri-
bute their blood for the benefit of those
in need of it.
The Red Cross Blood Transfusion
Service runs a 24-hour-a-day service for
the supply of blood. It is open during
most daylight hours to receive blood from
those willing to give it. The demand is


[For election matter in this issue requiring
signature, David Adams, of 252 George Street,
Sydney, is responsible.]
increasing all the time, and the N.S.W.
branch of the service is at present appeal-
ing for additional donors. Blood-giving
is simple and painless, and the donor has
the certain knowledge that every pint of
blood he gives will help to restore health
—and possibly life itself—to someone in
need. Blood transfusion headquarters in
Sydney are at No. 1 York Street. Phone
BX 6511.
United Front at Work
The account by the “Sydney Morning
Herald” of the meeting at which Dr.
Evatt addressed a “capacity crowd at
Sydney Town Hall on the evening of
October 27,” described by its reporter
as a “rally of unemployed miners
organised by the N.S.W. Labor Council
and the Miners’ Federation,” was suit-
ably reticent.
It reported Dr. Evatt’s promise that
Labor would not rest until unemploy-
ment was removed from Australia,
the assertion of the A.L.P. leader in the
Senate that the Menzies Government had
no sympathy for the rights of the indi-
vidual, and his cry: “Let us get rid of
this hopeless, hapless, God-forsaken
Government that we are afflicted with.”
It did not, however, notice the greatest
piece of news offering at the meeting—
that one member of the rally of unem-
ployed, on the platform with the two
A.L.P. leaders, was Tom Wright, who is
very much employed as a Communist
alderman of the City Council, and who
has been a member of the central com-
mittee of the Communist party (and of
its governing junta) and its financial
manager for nearly a generation. Neither
did it notice Mr. T. Parkinson, a member
of the central committee of the Com-
munist party and president of the Miners’
Federation, who, according to the
“Tribune,” was introduced by Mr. J. N.
Thom, a Labor M.L.C., who “highly
praised his efforts.”
The meeting was designed as an elec-
tion meeting, and Parkinson made a
political speech in favor of the A.L.P.
and declared for the defeat of the Menzies
Government —“put the Liberals last.”
The fact is that not only were Com-
munists present on the platform with Dr.
Evatt and Senator McKenna, but the
whole stunt was the culmination of a
series worked-up by Comrade Parkinson
and his friends in anticipation of the
election, and Dr. Evatt and Senator
McKenna appeared to be ready to accept
their facts against the say-so of the Joint
Coal Board, to which the Labor Govern-
ment of N.S.W. is a party, and which
has Shown that only 238 were unem-
ployed last week, and nearly all because
they will not leave Cessnock.
It would perhaps be fair to ask whether
the two Labor leaders feel that their
united-front campaign with these Com-
munists represents the full extent of their
effort in obeying the Federal-conference
instruction to “carry on an increasing
campaign directed at destroying the
influence of the Communist party
wherever such exists throughout Aus-
tralia.”
There is little doubt that if Mr. Menzies
and Mr. McEwen appeared on platforms
with a Communist, Australia would hear
about it. If the press didn’t put four
headlines over the news, Dr. Evatt and
Mr. Calwell would. But apparently even
the part of the press which is doing its
best to get the Doctor elected regards it
as a mere commonplace that the Federal
A.L.P. leaders and the leaders of Com-
munism should work in a united front.
The Rival Scots
[From “Collins Street”J
I was among those present when the
Prime Minister opened the Liberal
election campaign at the Canterbury
Memorial Hall in his Kooyong elec-
torate ; but I only just made it. Menzies
hasn’t changed, other than in a subtle
approach to his audience, since he was
first elected to the Victorian Legislative
Council, and his meetings are as amusing
as ever.
But, as I say, I was lucky to be there.
Canterbury Road was packed with
cars when I drove-up, and I had to park
furlongs away in a side-street. As an
aged reporter, I dived for the farthest-
back door of a hall, avoiding the main-
entrance overflow, and I was surprised
to find an empty room, full of church
furniture. I went through into the
packed main-chamber, and a clergyman
approached me politely. .“I am looking
for the press-table,” I said. He seemed
surprised, but pleased, and asked me to
wait. When he went off, I saw that
everyone had slips of paper. They were
headed, “Service Counsellor” (I think),
so I took another look, saw I really was
in church, and departed smartly. As I
went out I saw what I should have noted
as I entered: “Billy Graham Is Coming! ”
and over the door, “Canterbury Presby-
terian Church.”
I escaped from these Scots down the
road to where others, chiefly Menzies
and McEwen, were holding forth (on
what would be coming if the Doc. got
in), and Bob’s amplified voice as I
approached, “You don’t have to listen
to these professional hecklers” reassured
me I was at the right place, and I got
the last seat at the press-table through, of
course, the farthest-back door.
He was explaining some dreary subject
of national importance which excites only
Cabinets, the upper hierarchy of the pub-
lic service and Bulletin leader-writers,
and announced proudly the millions the
Government intended spending on it.
“Good ’eavens!” piped-up a thin,
derisive voice.
That put us all in the right mood, and
each time the P.M. mentioned the Labor
party or Dr. Evatt from then on, he
locked up expectantly, rather cheekily,
and was rewarded with hearty rounds of
cheers from the strategically placed
hecklers. When he mentioned Eddie, they
grew in volume, but unfortunately he
didn’t mention Arthur, so it wasn’t
possible to judge the relative standing
of the two —at present, anyway.
It is impossible not to admire the Prime
Minister. In brief, expert gestures
he brought color and atmosphere into
the meeting, to give the audience its
money’s worth, but he held inflexibly to
the vast radio audience, and, of course,
his thoughts and his urbane presence (or
suave, if you aren’t a Menzies man) remind
you, as a Victorian, of the wider Aus-
tralia and of the incomparable superiority
of the House of Representatives, with all
its shortcomings, over the Legislative
Assembly, the growing maturity and the
breadth of national affairs, and the Prime
Minister’s vision (conservatively stated, of
course, by a Scottish lawyer).
On all counts it was the mixture as
before, like the speech: the frank
worshippers from the highly respectable
neighborhood, the not-overly-offensive
hecklers, the little bands with their sad,
sandwich-board slogans among the over-
flow audience, and the adroit handling
of them all.
Even the chiefs of the newspapers’
Canberra bureaux on tour with him
seemed to enjoy it, although Harold Cox,
Frank Chamberlain, Kevin Power and
their colleagues have grown grey while
reporting him. They haven’t kept their
hair on, physically, as well as he has,
either.
Victorian Council Moves
[From “D.S.”]
After savoring, not always with relish,
the skirmishings and intrigues of the
three parties in the Victorian Parliament
for 30 years, it is difficult to digest the
State Cabinet’s announcement that it is
considering giving the city more repre-
sentation in the Legislative Council.
The bland announcement is that a
survey of electoral strengths in the 17
Legislative Council provinces has been
undertaken with a redistribution of
boundaries for the 1961 elections in view,
plus a reminder that the present electoral
boundaries greatly favor country mem-
bers.
Already two proposals have been
made: The abolition of one country
province and establishment of a city or
outer-suburban province, leaving 17
provinces (and 34 seats); or the creation
of an extra province in the city, making
36 seats.
The party most likely to wince at this
proposal is, of course, Sir Herbert
Hyland’s Country party, which has con-
sistently thwarted the Government’s
efforts to reform the Victorian bread
industry. If there are no defections from
Hyland’s team in the Legislative Council
vote on the Government’s new bread bill,
it will still be possible (by one vote) to
defeat the Government.
This is not too cynical a view to take
of the Government’s abrupt interest in
Legislative Council representation. It
will, no doubt, be an effective answer,
too, since the Labor Council members
would vote for it gleefully. There isn’t
much doubt which party’s province would
be selected for abolition.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
To see a parrot in a cage
Put Miss Kafoosis in a rage,
And so she wrote the vet. a cheque
To take it out and wring its neck.
vie. Jacqueline Harris-Jones.
* * *
Murder on radio is quite a thrill
Whilst listening at home in the dark ;
Except when you find the poor victim is
Tschaikowsky, Beethoven or Bach.
vie. Bicky.
I saw her last in ’3B
When she was young and small;
But now she’s put on so much weight,
She’s almost wall-to-wall.
N.S.W. Kenyas.
Will Lawson died in October, 1957, at
the age of 81, in the Home of the Little
Sisters of the Poor.
“Geehem”: Mention of a matitutinal
cup of hot water for internal cleansing
purposes (B. 1 /10/’5B) recalls that an
old-time M.P. extolled the principle in
verse for the edification of Parliamentary
colleagues. The doggerel aroused sar-
castic comment from one of the
recipients, to which the author retorted:
“I am sorry that the honorable member
fails to see, in my morning cup of hot
water, the same pure virtue that he so
recently discovered in a nightcap of
warm milk.” The critic had squirmed
out of an awkward domestic situation
by claiming that a maid, discovered in
his bedroom late at night, had been
delivering a glass of warm milk for his
insomnia.
*> ►> ❖
“Willpar”: “Only 159gn5.,” said the
advertisement for a television-set, the
cheapest price I had ever noted. As the
average price is over £2OO, this seemed
an excellent offer. But I didn’t buy. I
am still haunted by the memory of an
interview with a British expert who was
here in January, 1949, to supervise
the setting-up of a television factory.
“How much do you consider a set will
cost us out here when they first hit the
“Channel Twelve?”
market?” I asked him. “Well,” he
replied, “owing to the duty on valves,
more than in England. About forty-five
to fifty pounds, 1 should say.”
❖ * *
“Bilique”: Puzzled over the Naussie
sign “We Fix All Repairs,” I asked
“How come?” —“It is thees way: men
and ladies take up the Do-it-yourself.
They make the chair ; then the leg he
no fit; they make the drawer for the
closechest; he go in, no come out agen.
She (yes sir, always the lady do the paint
jobs) paint the table and the china steeck
on him ... I do all these jobs the right
way, and often I mind the babby while
they go to the pub to forget the Do-it-
yourself.”
❖ ❖ *
“Sunray”: Our paper was describing
a procession, and after listing all the
commercial floats with flowery detail it
ran out of space, and the tail-end of the
spectacle was hastily compressed into:
“Then followed a band of horsewomen
and other decorated vehicles.”
♦+♦ <«
“S.P.”: From the Dandenong
“Journal”:
The Pike Production Co., “The Summit," via
Berwick. Announcing the 1958 Pike Baby,
Garry David. Model No. 2—Weight 7ib. lloz.
Clyde W. Pike, Designer and Chief Engineer.
Lorna E. Pike, Production Manager. Dr. K.
Griffiths, Technical Assistant. Model released
9.5 p.m., 29/9/’5B. Two lung-power, free
squealing, screamline body, economical feed,
water-cooled exhaust, changeable seat-covers.
Manager wishes to announce that there will be
no new models for the balance of the year.
*> ' ♦> *l*
“Terry”: The doctor had prescribed a
new antibiotic to be given orally for the
baby’s middle-ear infection. The medical
firm responsible had supplied a dropper
carefully graded with the exact dosage to
confound the inaccuracy of the house-
hold teaspoon. The small bottle of fluid,
supplied free by the Government and
worth a fabulous amount, had been
clearly marked “Take one dropperful
every six hours.” So the young mother
devotedly took out one dropperful"every
sixth hour and placed it in the baby’s ear.
“That was where the pain was,” she
protested when she had to take the baby
back to the doctor.
A letter from London to Will Lawson,
dated October 14, 1958:
Dear Will,
You may be surprised to hear from me
after all this time. Before I left Sydney l
saw your publisher, Mr. Frank Johnson, who
gave me a couple of copies of your book, When
Cobb ami Co. Were King.
1 found in the early days here that film-
producers and TV companies were only mildly
interested in Australian stories, and then only
in books that have been published here and
that have been a success on this market.
However, “with the help of others I have worked-
up a good deal of interest here in Australian
stories, and one of my main associates is an
Australian who has been here for 35 years, who
is on the board of several big film and TV
companies—-he was associated with the produc-
tion of “Bridge on the River Kwai.”
You will recall to mind that when I pre-
viously had endeavored to produce When Cobb
and Co. Were King in Australia jome years ago
1 had prepared a film treatment. Now, with
the help of a British leading TV and film
writer, from this treatment we have prepared
both a TV and film outline and there is every
possibility of being able to do business here
with your story and get you some good money.
I have asked my brother, John Gray, who is
well known in Australia —he is one of your
leading actors out there —to contact you.
This is in reference to an option contract
which would enable me to finalise the deal
here and get you some money for the basic
story. 1 suggest the following—a down-payment
of £stg.2o as an option for the TV-rights for a
period of six months; within that time a further
£stg.9Bo to be paid to you, plus 2} per cent,
royalties from net profits.
Within a further period of one year (18
months in all) a further £stg.2ooo to be paid to
you for the film-rights, both final payments to
be subject to a deduction of 10 per cent, agency-
fees to be paid to a London firm of agents
who handle our business and the business of
the film-writer.
Hoping that you are well and are enjoying
life and that at long last we can see some
good Australian stories on the international
cinema and TV screens.
Yours sincerely,
HAROLD GRAY.


A seafaring identity,.homeward-bound
to a Melbourne suburb, was marooned
on a Collins Street traffic-island when
the door-handle of. a small car moving
with the lights hooked into his trousers.
The car having been held-up again, the
man of action opened the rear-door and
hopped in, to the alarm of the young
woman driving, which turned to em-
barrassment when it was made clear
that, however unawares, she had removed
the pants of an indignant merchant-
seaman. They drove down Collins Street,
debating a problem neither had come
up against before —how to buy a pair
of pants in Melbourne after 5 p.m., and
finally, asking a policeman and receiving
certain advice, anchored at a watch-house
behind the Town Hall. Here the
merchant-navy had to endure a certain
amount of raillery from the police-force ;
the red-faced (trouser-) Tugboat Annie
departed with profuse apologies; the
sft. 2in. mariner was found a pair of
uniform-trousers- which, even heavily-
reefed, caused a certain amount of com-
ment on the street and in the train home
—nevertheless, they were delivered back
next day with a pound-note in each
pocket: salvage voluntarily paid for
helping a poor mariner on a night like
that.—“Burra Mallim.”
♦J* ■*£♦ ❖
“Bicky”: Melbourne’s, volume is in-
creasing: the latest, 1280-page, metro-
politan telephone-book, with its 784
pages of ordinary subscribers’ numbers
and 496 pages of classified commercial
numbers, will be the last ; in future
the P.M.G. will issue two directories, an
ordinary one and a business one, to each
subscriber.
* * *
“Bass”: The Full Court, sitting in
Perth, has ruled that a 19-year-old youth
can’t be held responsible for a £226 bill
for repairs to motor-cycles, after a
magistrate had said he could. Seems
that at 17 the youth arranged with a
motor-cycle agency to make repairs on
a terms-basis, he to pay weekly. When
he got the big bill 12 months later he
argued that an infant couldn’t be held
responsible for a bill like that for that
sort of work. Thd Full Court has held
that a contract is enforceable against an
infant only if it is necessary for his
welfare —as the youth lived near trans-
port and had only about a mile-and-a-
half to go to work the bike wasn’t ,neces-
sary ; therefore the repairs weren’t either.
'Perth traders are wondering how far the
argument can be extended ; infants buy
such a lot of things on t.-p.
+♦♦ ♦+<•
“0.W.W.”: Comment at a party:
“She’s' particular, all right—only makes
love to friends and strangers.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Dorian”: Out collecting signatures
for the church's “pledge” system of
weekly giving, my brother-canvasser and
I found ourselves on the doorstep of a
pleasantly voluble woman —on and on
she went: her health, her husband’s
health, her son’s progress as a junior
executive ... we were on the point of
giving her up when she remarked that
her immediate problem was an evasive
clue in the Sydney “Herald” crossword-
competition. “Well, let’s see it,” I said.
Away she went, back she came; the
ariswer came to me in a flash of no
doubt heavenly inspiration. “I don’t
know how to thank you,” she said; “I
rang-up my sister, but she didn’t know.”
And she filled-out a pledge-card. If she
cracks the prizemoney I hope she remem-
bers it’s all part of a Providential plan.
A A A
V V v
a mountain road across New
Zealand’s Coromandel Peninsula,
writer, with pack up between pre-war
jobs, was passed in the late afternoon
by a van announcing in gay letters, so
memory insists, “The Great Sarpoli &
Bon Ami.” Sarpoli (or Bon Ami) was
“You salesmen never seem to carry the items We housewives Want."
DUBBLTORK
The Bulletin DUBBLTORK' Competition
(One Week Only) is different from similar
competitions in Sunday newspapers in that
NO ENTRY-FEE is required (indeed, any entry
will be indignantly resented), and so, for the
first time in such competitions. NO ONE WILL
BE DISCONCERTED by failure to win a
Prize. The Editor’s decision is phonal: 8U5971.
ACROSS:—
(1) In any Sunday newspaper of inestimable
circulation
Would you more likely find figurative
entrails or rhetorical ornamentation?
(3) Or maybe you don’t buy Sunday papers
for living-room or parlor;
You consider them, when you see them,
as half-way to the ;
(5) For you’re weary of wondering whether
pictures of foreign fashions
Arc meant to stimulate your wife’s dress-
sense or your own faltering passions;
(6) And the feelings that may be evoked
from the pounds of paper hooey
Are as mechanical as a gamble or a
bibulous “Here’s !”
DOWN:—
(1) Still, there’s always word-competitions if
you happen to be on the make;
They may be the old, old story, or they
may be just a ,
(2) Because, if you work properly, and
watch the problem unfold,
You are more likely to remain what
you are than earn a bar of gold;
(3) And whether you think it a prevarica-
tion or a light thrown on the place,
(4) You can be certain I’ve got enough cards
up my sleeve to trump your .
N.S.W.
Swilliam.


pictured twirling moustaches at a big
doll while his mate twanged a guitar.
Thumbed them; no luck; so didn’t
make the 10 miles to salt-water until
after dark. Down at the pub (in those
days we waited there for low-tide before
crossing to the harbor settlement) was
the community, Maori and European, to
the last man, woman and child. Close
by stood the Great’s Big Top, daubed
similarly to the van, but empty of
audience. They were dancing from the
bar to the green in front of. the pub,
moving lively to a veranda orchestra.
Bon Ami didn’t play —he was veranda-
flat already—but a Maori youth thumbed
the Bon Ami guitar in rhythm with other
"I hate bothering you, darling, but I think I'm going of my rocker."
strumming locals. Sarpoli, glass in hand,
one wing of the phoney moustache adrift,
had swapped the stage doll on his knee
for a live one that did its own talking.
Didn’t take me long to doss the swag,
prove the beer, and find a partner in the
dance, hardly aware that I thus joined
a notable entertainment of, by and for
the people. There’s a new pub now, but
you don’t have to wait there ; a road
bypasses the tide 24 hours a day.—“C.S.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Eliza”: During a lull in the conver-
sation her voice, punctuated with indig-
nant snorts, floated even to my furthest
corner of the bus: “Trust her to do my
shopping! Her! Not likely! She
goes through her old man’s pockets while
she’s saying her prayers!”
“Arma”: He was from the P.M.G.
Department, and asked to see my wire-
less licence. My wife had put it away ;
I asked him to wait while 1 looked for
it, and fortunately it wasn’t hard to find.
“Yes,” he said. “When the man’s at
home, there’s no trouble about seeing
the licence, but when there’s only the
woman —well, I sometimes feel like
giving this game away!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Beam”: It was a wedding to make
the men smile indulgently and the women
to cry just enough to warrant bringing
out the lace-edged hanky. The bride
was a picture, the ceremony went-off
without a hitch, the reception was well-
organised, the food excellent, the lubrica-
tion plentiful . . . But it was all too good
to be true. While the bride was changing
and the bridegroom was filling-in time
as best he could after having changed
his tie, the M.C. decided to sing a song
which he hoped would be appropriate
to the occasion: “Today was just a
masquerade; tomorrow's just another
day.”
❖ * *
“Doynest”: Speaking of free gifts for
the kids in packets of breakfast-cereal
(B. 22/10/ ’5B), the latest in our part of
the world is a gramophone-record
popped in with the wheatflakes. How
many households, I wonder, have been
let-in for another 10-bob a week on
a radiogram that will give them full
value from the free record? Still, now
that the French have produced a
“Sonorama” magazine that can be both
read and played on your gramophone
the next cereal novelty should be a
circular breakfast-biscuit that can be
played and then eaten.
*l* ♦>
“Myall”: New type of club-badge, seen
on the front bumper-bar of a car in a
Brisbane street: “The Cad’s Club,” with
the motto, “Adsum Ard Labor.”
❖ ❖
“Old Boltonian”: Had almost been
convinced that ye olde Englishe snobberie
was defunct until I came across this
advert, for a weed-cutter in an English
farming-magazine: “Weeding becomes a
healthy pastime, even for the elderly.
Price 19s. 6d., plus Is. 6d. postage. State
whether for use of lady or gentleman.
Heavier model for farm-laborer or hired
gardener, 235. 6d.”
A FREUDIAN FIXATION
“Dr. Ernest Dichter, a visiting American
psychologist, said that men are in need of
constant reassurance of their masculinity, and
that the desire of modern women to appear
less feminine was very strong.”
Our household, which should have an
atmosphere
Of gaiety, instead has one of fear.
Daily my chassis anxiously I scan,
Fearful I may become less of a man.
When, lately, I discovered one had
perished
Of the six chest-hairs l so long had
cherished
As symbols of a sturdy masculinity
Which lent me, as it were, remote affinity
With Hackenschmidt, Samson and
Hercules,
l felt that Fate had brought me to my
knees.
What if the others shrivelled up and
died?
A mortal blow would then be dealt my
pride.
With chest as hairless as a dinner-plate,
How could I discipline my long-haired
mate?
Never, I’d have the fear, could she accord
That reverence and respect due to her
lord.
A chain-reaction could be started thus
To make my manhood minus ’stead of
plus;
And in the end perhaps I’d have no
choice
Of speech except in a soprano voice !
Although the strife evinces no desire
To join the bassos in the local choir;
Undo her perm.; draw razor o’er her
face ;
Or do the heavy odd-jobs round the
place ;
To smoke a strong cigar, skipper a tanker,
Or wield the fiscal power of a banker.
She isn’t so unfeminine, yet, for such.
Still, she’s acquired at least one masculine
touch :
The constant urge — it's one she never
hides
But which I must repel—to wear the
strides.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


Dublic Servicamanship
(Including Deskmanship and Yesmanship)
By MARCUS TULLIUS
From time to time alarming
statistics are published
about the Commonwealth
Public Service. (They
would probably be true
of State public services,
too.) Its growth, so we
are told, has mushroomed
to atomic proportions in the
last 10 years ; maybe if you
stood in your backyard and
threw stones you could hit 10
or 12 public servants without
raising a sweat. It would depend
where you lived, of course.
It would also depend on
whom you wanted to alarm.
Because if one out of every five
or six adults in this country
is a public servant, then you
can bet your boots that these
figures and statistics are not
going to alarm a particular,
large segment of the population.
The public servant lives in his
own self-contained world ;
public opinion (including news-
paper opinion) runs off his
back, duck-wise.
TTis world is a microcosm
(sorry, macrocosm) worth
having a peep at; but it’s not
a very pleasant view at that.
For one thing, the staggering
increase in departments and
sections has brought in its
wake a whole system of petty
overlords, heads and sub-heads;
unteroffiziers —call them what
you like —and in any given
year the amount of time and
ingenuity which goes into devis-
ing suitable titles (and appro-
priate salary-ranges) would
probably run a decent-sized
departmental store for any
number of weeks.
But going along with this
(indeed, because of it) is a
ferocious political intriguing, a
jockeying for position, the use
of the - other - man’s - back -
as-ladder techniques—accepted
philosophically by almost every
career public servant as part
of the great game of getting-
on.
It is public servantmanship.
It breeds a Mack the Knife in
every section, the picking of the
other fellow’s brains, and, as a
necessary concomitant, a
sycophantic attitude to the boss,
which all too often the boss
comes to accept and expect.
In racy public-service slang,
the Big Boss is “The Master.”
This is significant, because
more and more these days
preferment is going by favor.
Apart from anything else, the
pendulum has swung that way.
It has swung from promotion
by seniority to promotion by
ability and efficiency.
Now, you can’t fiddle with
years of service, but you can
with efficiency—because who
decides efficiency? And if
Smith is much more “adapt-
able” than Brown (which
means, too often, that he is the
better yes-man) Smith will get
the promotion.
Did I hear someone say
Appeals Boards? But if the
Departmental Head says that
in his definite opinion Smith is
the better man. Brown has
to do some
mightily power-
ful pleading to
get over that
one.
Tt is a tight
world and
squeezed out,
certainly, is
much considera-
tion for what
taxpayers, news-
papers and any
other necessary
evils may think
or say.
Indeed, the
average public
servant, especi-
ally the one
with a little bit
of authority, in
addition to play-
ing his fantastic
tricks of office,
has a splendid
disregard for the
taxpayer.
His only
worry, financi-
ally speaking, is
the Auditor;
and since the
Battles with the
Auditors have
been going on
for many years
now, Ways and
Means have
been found.
Squeezing the last drop out of
legitimate expense - accounts ;
the use of petty-cash vouchers
in the most elastic terms ; the
free and uninhibited use of
such perks of office as staff-
"Now that you've got it finished , We've got to pull it down to make
Way for the new electric-railway to Newcastle."
cars, etc.; the use of telephones
(with trunk-call facilities for
the asking) as private chattels ;
most of the boys are in this.
On the heavier executive side
is the power of requisitions, of
expenditure, of lordly dicings
with public moneys (for the
benefit of the public, of course)
all of which adds t o
{Continued on page 36)


POLITICAL POINTS
A record number of candidates has
nominated for the Federal election —411
for the House of Representatives and 89
for the Senate. In the 1955 election
there were 315 aspirants for the Reps, and
68 would-be Senators ; in 1954 the figures
were 298 and 74. The increase is largely
explained by the rise of the D.L.P. (which
is contesting most of the seats in five
States) and, in Queensland, of the Q.L.P.
In 1955 the D.L.P. (then the Anti-
Communist Labor party) confined its
efforts mainly to Victoria.
• •
The Senate lottery gave the Govern-
ment parties last place on the card in
every State except Westralia. Labor drew
first place in Queensland and Victoria ;
the Communist party in N. S. Wales (for
the fourth time in succession) and South
Australia ; the D.L.P. in Tasmania.
The 2 per cent, bonus that goes with
first place isn’t likely to raise the Com-
munist tally high enough to elect a
Comrade Senator, but in Tasmania it
could provide the little extra needed to
keep D.L.P. leader Cole in the Senate.
• •
C. A. Morgan, retiring Labor member
for Reid (N.S.W.), who lost the A.L.P.
preselection after he had been a little
outspoken about the Doc, sprang a sur-
prise by a last-minute nomination as an
Independent—he’s describing himself as a
“locally endorsed Labor candidate,” but
by opposing an official A.L.P. candidate
he automatically qualifies for expulsion
from the party. His entry should make
the Reid campaign the most willing since
the days when he himself was fighting it
out with J. T. Lang.
• •
Davis Hughes, leader of the N. S.
Wales Country party, wants the terms of
the Industrial Commission’s inquiry into
the effects of automation extended to
cover the impact on primary industry.
His point is that primary industry will
derive no direct benefit from automation,
but may be at a disadvantage through
rising costs.
• •
Land-tax brought the Cahill Govern-
ment £3,350,000 in 1956-57, £6 million in
1957-58 and is expected to bring in
another £6 million this year. Both
Opposition parties are pledged to repeal
the Land Tax Act if placed in power.
• •
A fine study for one of the army of
American students now writing theses on
the Australian political scene would be
the conflicting views of Evatt and Cahill.
Joe says that his N. S. Wales is a model
of prosperity and development; Bert that
nothing but gloom and ruin reign. It
has always been like that. When Evatt
and Calwell were preaching disaster and
depression a few years ago Cahill was
happily intoning:
The fact is that in recent years the
worker has had an independence which
he has never previously enjoyed. We have
got to the stage when a worker can
choose which of the jobs offered him he
prefers.
• •
S’Artie Fadden, back from Geneva —•
his last assignment as Federal Treasurer
—apparently intends to slog hard in the
election campaign, although he isn’t stand-
ing himself. In Melbourne he told the
Liberal Women’s Club:
There’s a closed season to protect
possums and teddy-bears, but there's no ’
closed season to protect mugs. And there
may be enough irresponsible mugs and
undiscerni.ng asses to go after the carrots
Dr. Evatt holds out.
He warned that “somebody has to pay
for Santa Claus.”
• •
In giving a civic reception to Com-
munist L. Sharkey, the Lord Mayor of
Newcastle, Alderman Mc-
Dougall, said, “I can see no
reason why I should not
receive Mr. Sharkey. What
is the difference between
him and any other party
leader who visits New-
castle?”
Well, let’s see. What
other party leaders have
been to Newcastle lately?
• •
A fact so far over-
looked by Labor speakers
is that even in the unlikely
event of their gaining a
majority in the House of
Representatives and form-
ing a Government, they
cannot, in any circum-
stances, get control of the
Senate. The Goyernment
starts off with 16 Senators,
and under proportional-
representation it must win
at least two of the five
ordinary vacancies in each
of the four States Queens-
land, South Australia,
Westralia and Tasmania.
In Victoria and New South
Wales six Senators are to
be elected, which means
that the Government can
stake its last penny on
winning three in each of
those States.
• •
The Miners’ Federation,
headed by a member of
the Communist party central committee,
T. Parkinson, is using the funds of the
federation, thousands of whose members
it alleges to be out of work and starving,
to run sessions in favor of the A.L.P. on
numerous radio - stations throughout
N.S.W. and other States “as a contribu-
tion to the election campaign.” In time
off from conducting this effort in favor
of Labor, Comrade Parkinson opened
the N.S.W. Communist-party campaign
at Wollongong.
• •
[From Canberra]
It’s being said here that the visit of 21-year-
old Princess Alexandra of Kent to Australia
next year will be worth thousands of votes to
the Government from Queensland electors in
the present elections.
Menzies must think so; he’s giving Queens-
land comparatively little attention during his
campaign. In the three-and-a-half weeks’ tour
he will visit that State only once, and, outside
of meetings in metropolitan Brisbane, will speak
only in the Leichhardt electorate, which was
held in the last Parliament by Labor veteran
Harry Bruce, who died just after Parliament
adjourned.
Menzies knows that some Government sup-
port has been alienated in Victoria through no
fault of the Commonwealth, but by the action
of the Bolte State Government in upping fares
and rates almost immediately after its return
to office at the last State elections. Three
Victorian electorates Menzies will pay particular
attention to will be Corio, held by Government
Whip and former cycling champion, Hubert
Opperman; Maribyrnong, held by Phil Stokes;
and Bruce, held by Billie Sneddon. In
N.S.W. he has opened his tour at Hurstville,
right in the heart of Dr. Evatl’s old electorate
of Barton, which the Government hopes to
win, and bordering on St. George, held scantily
at the last elections by Government member
Bruce Graham.
"THE EVIL THAT MEN DO LIVES
AFTER THEM..."


Sydney newspaper-readers, mystified by
the unfathomable political and economic
philosophy of Granny “Herald” and that
of her cross-eyed daughter-in-law, Sydney
“Sun,” will be relieved to know that
whatever is affecting (or infecting) the
“Herald” family does not appear to be
contagious so far as other newspapers are
concerned. Thus “The Age,” Melbourne’s
(and Australia’s) most respected morning
daily, dealing with Menzies’s policy-
speech and his criticisms of Dr. Evatt’s
proposed social-security “stimulants”:
Strong doubts are inevitable when all
the risks mentioned by the Prime Minister
are taken into account. Irrespective of the
cost, on which there has been some argu-
ment, deficit-budgeting simply to liven-up
the economy and extend social benefits
carries with it some obvious dangers. It
could very easily generate a new spiral of
inflation which would quickly destroy the
value of any cash benefits received
So the issue is clear and, if it is faced
realistically on November 22, the vote
will be for the Government, sound in its
record, united with its Country-party
partner, confident in the future and with a
full sense of responsibility in facing the
risks inherent in rapid national expansion.
The alternative, baited with short-term
benefits, ignoring the hazards of develop-
ment and carrying with it no promise of
an end to party dissension, holds too much
uncertainty.
9 9 -
One strong recommendation to come
out of the annual conference of the
N.S.W. Local Government Association
calls for a reduction in the minimum
permissible ceiling-height to Bft. It has
stood at 9ft. for 36 years despite the
urgings of architects and builders.
Kuring-gai Council, which sponsored the
latest move, first wrote to 229 municipal
and shire councils. Of the 125 replies
received, 67 favored the change; 24
opposed it and 25 passed no comment.
Advocates of lower ceilings claim that
the change would mean a considerable
saving in building-costs, without creating
any health hazards.
9 9
Australia should be getting plenty of
publicity in the English press in the next
few weeks. Kingsley Martin, editor of
London “New Statesman,” out here to
deliver the Dyason lectures, said in Bris-
bane that the reason Australia got so
little publicity in Britain was because it
was so happy, so prosperous and had so
few unemployed. “English papers want
unemployment and crime to write about.”
If they follow the election speeches
of the Doc. and his colleagues they’ll
be able to get columns and columns on
unemployment, with similar helpings on
the crimes of the Menzies Government.
9 9
The Department of Trade expects an
overseas trading deficit of £260 million
in the current financial year, its secretary,
J. G. Crawford, told the annual con-
ference of the Australian Primary Pro-
ducers’ Union in Canberra. This would
reduce the overseas balance to something
under £4OO million, compared with £567
million in June, 1957.
Crawford reminded the conference that
more than £640 million of the current
imports of £BOO million a year repre-
sented essential raw materials and capital-
goods. Exports of manufactured goods
were increasing, but, “it would be a fatal
illusion if primary producers got the idea
that it was not necessary to increase
primary production.” Most of our export
income would still have to come from
wool, wheat, other land products and
minerals.
A fortunate trend was the increase in
overseas investment in Australia —from
about £3O-40 million in the immediate
post-war years to about £lOO million last
year and possibly £125 million in the
current year.
9 9
“Trinco”: Do we build-up Asian
friendships by giving Colombo Plan aid,
or would we do better by bolstering Asian
self-respect by low-interest loans? Com-
munist China has just agreed to lend
Ceylon 50-million rupees for 10 years
from 1961 at 2\ per cent., the loan to
be in the form of equipment, materials
or other supplies.
9 «
In the S.A. Assembly a bill introduced
by Labor Opposition-leader O’Halloran
to fix a maximum hire-purchase interest-
rate at 2 per cent, above the bank-over-
draft rate was defeated by 15 votes to 13.
Defending his proposal, O’Halloran said
that every State Government except the
Playford Government seemed to be con-
cerned at the effect h.-p. was having on
the loan-market and that money which
could be used for State development was
being diverted to h.-p. He didn’t explain
how lower interest-rates would reduce
the turnover of h.-p. As to his suggested
rate, at current overdraft rates this would
be about per cent. The Cahill Govern-
ment in N. S. Wales permits per cent.
9 9
“D.”: Victoria’s Tourist Development
Authority takes over from the Railway-
run Government Tourist Bureau in a
few months, and its first imaginative job
(costing £14,000) is to put in “comfort-
stations” around the Mornington Penin-
sula beaches. There is already a comfort-
station at nearby Frankston, an other-
wise first-class seaside town, and at
Richmond (Melbourne) Town Hall,
where, no doubt, the locals wonder what
it possibly can be.
It was Nancy Mitford, developing her
plain-spoken, Anglo-Saxon uncle’s tacit
division of people into U and Non-U,
who consigned toilet to the Non-U heap ;
what her uncle would have thought of
the vulgar gentility of comfort-station
might be hair-raising, but certainly lucid.
Whatever’s wrong with going into
a lavatory?
9 9
As automation comes in and exports
fall off, waterside jobs are getting scarcer.
In Melbourne, Waterside Workers’
Federation books have been closed
against new members for two years, and
the hundreds waiting for well-paid jobs
and short hours probably will never
get in ; last year the Melbourne wharfie
averaged £2O 11s. for a 29.1-hour week.
Times are so tough the wharfies are
attempting to elbow out of the waterfront
the engine-driver unionists (and members
of the Federated Engine-drivers and Fire-
men’s Association) who normally would
handle the automatic equipment.
e «
In 1955-56 Melbourne suburban
passenger-services lost £3.1 million; in
1956- they lost £2.58 million and in
1957- £2.51 million. New higher fares
will bring in an additional £1 million
this financial year, so the loss will be
reduced to a piffling £1.5 million.
• •
Plenty of people won’t like the pre-
diction of the National Capital Develop-
ment Commission that Canberra’s popu-
lation will reach 100,000 within 16 years.
The capital is increasing its population at
a rate greater than that of any other Aus-
tralian city (a cause of ribald comment
there and elsewhere), and within 11 years,
or before 1970, the total should exceed
80,000. Within 15 years the number of
pre-school and primary-school children
will double, and the number at secondary
schools will be three times the present
figure. The commission has drawn atten-
tion to the greatly increased public
utilities, transport, cultural and recrea-
tional facilities which will be needed.
But will those things really check the
population-growth ?
• 9
“Wusslean”: “The unstable character
of the French made him anxious, for
they are easily induced to form new
plans and generally welcome political
change.” No, it’s not the comment of
a twentieth-century writer: substitute
“Gauls” for “French” and you have it
as Julius Cassar wrote it, 2000 years ago,
in his Gallic War.
9 9
One thought-provoking illustration of
automation is provided by a new German
factory in the Ruhr, which can produce
70,000 tons of synthetic rubber annually,
using only 400 employees to operate
machines and switchboards. The equiva-
lent of its 25 acres, in a tropical area,
could accommodate 650 rubber-trees,
which seven years after planting would
yield enough latex to make 35001 b. of
rubber a year. In other words, the new
factory, built in two years, can produce
nearly 100-million lb. of rubber a year,
equalling the yield of a 100,000-acre
plantation employing 28,000 persons.
9 9
Vilmos Kormos, a Hungarian-born
New Australian, has been endorsed by
the D.L.P. for the Senate in Victoria,
probably the first New Australian to
stand for a Federal seat. He came to
Australia in 1950 and since then has done
better than the D.L.P.: he has gone up.
He began as a pick-and-shovel man and
now has his own taxi-truck business.


Personal
ITEMS
Honored with the K.B.E. for out-
standing service to the legal profession,
the two recently appointed Justices of
the High Court: Douglas lan Menzies
and William John Victor Windeyer.
• •
New headmaster of the Canberra
Church of England Grammar School will
be P. J. McKeown, replacing Canon
D. A. Garnsey, Bishop-elect of Gipps-
land. An old boy of the school,
McKeown was in New Guinea and
Borneo with the A.1.F., graduated from
Sydney University after the war, then
took a Diploma of Education at Oxford
and while there played cricket for
Oxfordshire.
• •
A neat compliment has been paid to
Stanley Hawes, producer-in-chief of the
Department of Information Film Divi-
sion, who has gone to Morocco for
a year on Unesco invitation to advise
the Moroccan Government on forming
a visual-aids section in its Education
Department and to train producers and
cameramen. In his D. 0.1. job since
1946, Hawes has made documentaries in
every continent. He’s best known as
producer of the film “The Queen in
Australia,” rated by London critics the
finest Royal-tour film ever made.
• •
“Uramao”: The Hubert Church
Memorial prize for the best book pro-
duced in New Zealand in 1957 has been
awarded to Dennis McEldowney, of
Upper Hutt. A. E. Currie, the judge,
said the author showed the most dis-
tinguished prose style. Titled The World
Regained, and published by Chapman
and Hall, it tells of the author's restora-
tion to health from his affliction as a
blue baby.
• •
Appointed Superintendent of Music in
the Westralian Education Department's
schools, conductor Edgar Nottage was
for eight years principal advisory teacher
in the department’s music-branch. In
his spare time he conducts choirs and
helps with public presentations of choral
work. On Sundays, for a change, he’s
choirmaster of St. Andrew’s Presbyterian
Church, Perth.
• •
“Judee”: New Assistant-General of
the Marist Brothers Order, and in charge
of the establishment in Oceania, Brother
Hilary was for six years at Hamilton
(N.S.W.) Marist Brothers High School.
He will live in France for several years
before transferring to Rome, where the
principal establishment of the Order is
being set-up.
“Collins Street”: Ovenden has chosen
a safe moment, when Mick (Harold
Barry) Armstrong is away on a world-
tour to publish his caricature of a
brother-cartoonist, who has been satiris-
ing the great and the graters for so many
CARTOONIST
years in the dailies —currently Melbourne
“Sun” —that he doesn’t deserve to be let-
off so lightly here! Armstrong escaped
a naval career at Jervis Bay, but was
plucked from Sydney’s bohemia by his
parents and put firmly on a draughtsman's
stool in the N.S.W. Department of Land
Survey. After The Bulletin accepted a
cartoon from him he gave the Govern-
ment service away as quickly as possible,
taking an art-job in an advertising-agency,
and then a post relieving Tom Glover in
the Sydney “Sun.” After that he became
leader-cartoonist successively for the
Melbourne “Herald,” Melbourne “Star”
and the “Argus”; his clean, precise draw-
ings are frequently reproduced overseas.
He has an ineradicable soft spot for the
underdog, a carryover, perhaps, from the
depression, when there was only The
Bulletin, he says, to encourage and
succor the freelance.
• •
“White Gum”: Sixty-four-year-old
Dick Clarke, of Bunbury (W.A.), was
blinded by a German bullet three months
before the end of War I, but training
at St. Dunstan’s and in Perth in carpen-
try and cabinetmaking has enabled him
to spend a happy and useful life. He
turns-out furniture, though his only
special tool is a rule with the gradua-
tions deeply etched. Dick has never
seen his wife or his five children. He’s
a familiar and popular figure in Bunbury,
where one of his recreations is cycling
—on the rear-seat of a tandem.
• •
Reappointed to the Australian National
Airways Commission, which operates
T.A.A., Brigadier Arthur Seaforth Black-
burn, V.C., C.M.G., C.8.E., is a dis-
tinguished South Australian lawyer.
Before he joined the T.A.A. board in
1955 he was Adelaide City Coroner
(1946-47) and Commonwealth Concilia-
tion Commissioner (1947--55). He won
the V.C. in France in 1916, and in War II
served in Syria and Java, where he
became a p.-0.-w.
• •
“Postscript": Cardinal Gilroy’s
apprenticeship as a technician in the
P.M.G.’s Department made him a natural
for a signaller during World War I (B.
22/10/’5B). Incidentally, while the Aus-
tralian post-office has been the school-
room for several big men in communica-
tions, 1 know of none but the Cardinal
who has graduated from that service
into higher communications between
Heaven and earth.
• •
“Otnom": Fastest man in Australia,
Flying-Officer Neville Raffin, has been
posted to No. 3 Fighter Squadron in
Malaya. In October, 1957, he gained
the Australian air speed-record of
760 m.p.h. when delivering a Sabre from
Essendon (Vic.) to Williamtown R.A.A.F.
station (N.S.W.), flying the 462 miles in
42min. lOsec., with a 115 m.p.h. tail-wind
helping. A Sabre test-pilot at William-
town, Raffin has 500 flying-hours in
those planes to his credit. He’s a
Queenslander, born at Biggenden.
• •
Old Digger and R.S.L. member,
Edward Charles Chapman, of Fremantle,
has officially become an Australian at
the age of 86. Born in Germany (father,
German ; mother, English), he came to
Adelaide in 1891, was naturalised there
five years later, then moved on to
Westralia. During War I he changed
his name by deed poll from Roeder to
his mother’s family-name, Chapman, and
saw active service in command of a
Westrallan unit of field-engineers. A
few years ago he discovered that the
record of his naturalisation had been
lost, and applied for a private naturalisa-
tion ceremony.
• •
Dr. John Andrews, of Sydney Univer-
sity, who will be first occupant of the
Chair of Geography at the University
of Melbourne, was adviser to the Aus-
tralian delegation to the Far Eastern
Commission in Tokyo and Washington


just after War 11, and in 1951 and 1952
was an area specialist for the Pacific
Trust Territories in the U.N. trusteeship
division. Among other important jobs,
also, he was for several years visiting
lecturer in tropical geography at the
Australian School of Pacific Adminis-
tration.
• •
Giving Australian research-programmes
a once-over, Professor H. B. G. Casimir,
Extraordinary Professor of Leyden Uni-
versity and member of the management
board of Philip’s Electrical Industries,
likes the quality of what he’s seen at
universities here, especially in the
scientific field, but thinks staffs should
be increased so that they can spend
more time on graduate work. Interested
in the expansion of TV, one of his
suggestions is that it should be intro-
duced to country areas before there’s
any switch to color. Casimir studied
theoretical physics at Copenhagen under
Neils Bohr, one of the pioneers of modern
atomic physics, and worked with Marcus
Oliphant at Cambridge under Lord
Rutherford.
® e
Appointed assistant managing-director
of the Ford Motor Co. of Australia,
J. G. W. Mclntyre graduated at the
University of Toronto and the Harvard
Graduate School of Business Administra-
tion. Just arrived from Canada, where
he held important posts in the Ford
set-up, he will make his home in Geelong
(Vic.).
• •
Taking charge of the N.S.W. “F”
police-area (which includes the South
Coast, Goulburn, Riverina and Western
police-districts—a tidy lot of territory),
Superintendent Frederick Stanley Wind-
sor (here sketched) is an N.S.W. North
Coaster, born at Coraki on the Rich-
mond River. Joining the Force 31 years
ago as a mounted man, he speaks
nostalgically of the link which then
existed between the trooper and the man
on the land, and which motor-transport
has not done much to strengthen. After
an early term at Denman he came back
HORSEMASTER
to the police-depot in Sydney and for
a number of years broke-in police re-
mounts, before taking command of the
troop. Twenty-five years ago, he says,
there were 500-600 horses in the Force,
now there are only 37. Windsor, who
was in charge of the Queen’s Escort in
Sydney, Newcastle, Wollongong and
Canberra, was given the M.V.O. and
also holds the Queen’s Police Medal.
• •
Nobody, of course, was surprised when
it was announced that Severin Howard
Zichy Woinarski had been appointed to
one of the two vacancies in the Victorian
County Court —he was one of the most
popular members of the Bar and had
been an acting-judge for eight months.
Son of the Judge Woinarski who had
a formidable reputation among criminals
in the days of Squizzy Taylor, he was
a brilliant scholar at both Melbourne
Grammar and the Uni. Admitted to the
Bar in 1928, he has had a wide practice,
mainly in civil and criminal cases, acting
at times as Crown Prosecutor.
At 54, the new judge says he’s too old
for sport, but he is an indefatigable
gardener, chiefly with camellias (a qualifi-
cation any gardener will understand).
• •
“E.0.M.”: Diggers of the R.S.L. and
Legacy particularly will long remember
Colonel “Wally” Bain ; he was a great
worker among them, as assistant State-
secretary of the League for 16 years,
and member of Sydney Legacy for 19.
In the old 20th Battalion, the sight of
him in floppy gum-boots in the mud of
France won him the affectionate
monicker of “Puss-in-Boots.” He was
in the Pozieres, Bullecourt and Passchen-
daele shows, and between the wars com-
manded the 17th Battalion of Militia.
A fine administrator, he was Commander
of the Bth Infantry Training Brigade at
Tamworth (N.S.W.) in War 11.
• •
Melbourne University having decided
to run a three-year course of study in
Asian politics, devoted principally to
India, Japan and China, the Indian sec-
tion will be taken by Hugo Wolfsohn,
senior lecturer in the Department of
Political Science, the Chinese course by
lecturer Arthur Huck, and the Japanese
by Professor W. McMahon Ball. Wolf-
sohn, brushing-up his knowledge of
Indian politics, has been working in a
factory in Calcutta: he’s on study-leave
with Unesco experts making a field-
survey of the social and political con-
sequences of industrialisation in India.
• •
Scholar, soldier and oarsman, Leonard
Charles Robson, headmaster of “Shore”
(Sydney Church of England Grammar
School) since 1923, is calling it a day at
the end of the present term. A Sydney-
sider, born at Waverley, he was educated
at Grammar and the University, was
chosen as Rhodes Scholar for N.S.W. in
1916, and eventually took his M.A. at
New College, Oxford. Meantime from
1915 to 1919 he soldiered with the 18th
Battalion, winning the M.C. in France
(a C.B.E. was added in 1954).
Robson (here sketched) modestly lists
his recreation as “rowing”; actually, over
a good stretch of years there wasn’t a
better-known name in rowing in N.S.W.,
and further afield. That was while, as
well as headmastering, he personally
coached the school’s rowers, to the point
HEADMASTER
where to “beat Shore” was just about
as much an ambition as winning the Head
of the River —indeed that’s what it often
amounted to.
And now, following close on his
announced retirement, his election to the
Sydney University Senate —a win that
any shrewd tipster would have gone for
as a lay-down cert. Not that the opposi-
tion wasn’t strong —it was —but all told
there were eight in it, and, apart from
any other qualifications, Robson could
hardly lose in an “eight.”
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 55, James Sivright Barry,
advertising-manager of C.O.R. and BP
Australia, Ltd., since 1946. He began his career
in advertising fin N.Z.) in 1923, came to
Australia in 1934 and joined Arthur Smyth’s,
and in World War II commanded the Truscott
operational base in n.-w. W.A., from which
our bombers raided enemy territories in the
South Pacific. He was a former president of
the Advertising Institute of Australia.
At Bob’s Farm, near Newcastle (N.S.W.),
Neil Cromarty, grandson of Captain Cromarty,
of the Orkney Islands, master of a sailing-ship,
who received a grant of land on the south
shore of Port Stephens and whose name is
perpetuated by Cromarty Bay, where his
descendants still reside.
In Sydney, Miss Shadforth Hooper, pianist
and teacher, who 50 years ago was a pupil
of the great Teresa Carreno in Berlin, and
brought back to Sydney Carreno’s technique.
Among her many pupils were Dr. David
Maddison, Olga Krasnik and Jenny Daniel.
In Glenelg (S.A.), at 82, Harold Bickford,
director of Drug Houses of Australia (S.A.),
Ltd. (formerly the family concern of A. M.
Bickford and Sons). Member of the S.A.
Jockey Club from 1896, he was made life-
member in 1948. Good horses he bred included
First Earl and Air Fox.


ABORIGINALITIES
TTere in Fiji the Euronesian filling
in a form put for “Race”: “Pure-
bred half-caste.” Asked to explain, he
said he wanted the authorities to know
that he did not have one white and one
colored parent, but two half-caste
parents. —“Q. Ree.”
* * * *
“Kelms”: When a Westralian detective
caught-up with a man at Wittenoom,
about 200 miles south of Roebourne
(nor'-Westralia), he had to bring him
before a J.P. to get a remand to Perth ;
so it was arranged for a magistrate from
Roebourne to travel south, and the
police-party with the suspect to travel
north, and meet at the boundary of the
Wittenoom police-district. That’s where
the court was held —under a mulga-tree ;
but the Perth paper that called it a
“kangaroo court” couldn’t have been
much wronger. That term is usually
given to a mock-trial by tramps, or by
prisoners in a jail, of one of their
number for some breach of their codes —
it usually resulted in a vicious sentence
viciously executed The term has been
extended to any court of citizens where
the law isn’t much ; or it can be applied
to courts—none in Australia —where the
magistrate’s fees are proportionate to the
fines he imposes.
* * * *
“Tassie”: Endean’s cartoon of the
fellow who couldn’t get his completed
boat out of the building-site (B. 1/10/’5B)
had its counterpart in my locality
when a 40ft. launch was started
in a backyard. At the time access
to the boat was quite a simple matter,
but the builder failed to keep up with
modern construction speeds. After four
or five years had rolled by, the boat was
ready for decking, but five homes and
two shops now completely surrounded
the site. The only possible access was
Bin. too narrow. The solution: He
turned her upside down, __ knocked the
stern out, and raised her "up on piles.
The result is quite a good workshop,
even though the roof has a keel and is
covered with the best Huon-pine planking.
“Play him, Oomluk, play him!”
“L. 8.5.”: A 2001 b. cattle-pumpkin
can’t claim the title (B. 3/9/’5B). In
1936 a 2581 b. specimen won the prize
at the Waikato winter show, Hamilton
(N.Z.). A 2391 b. example gained the
honor in another year. At Tauwhare,
11 miles from Hamilton, where such
leviathans were grown in open fields, it
was not uncommon before the war to see
scores of huge grey cattle-pumpkins
resembling flocks of sheep lying down.
Many of them were round about 2001 b.,
and stories were told of farmers seeking
lost sheep by tapping the big cucurbits
in case the missing animals were hiding
inside.
* * • *
“Flight”: The claim is often made
that the wagtail makes its nest of spiders’
webs, but 1 have yet to see evidence of
it. I have noted, though, that often
they’ve laced horsehair, straw, bark-fibre,
fur or strand of string into position and
they have plunged beak into breast-
feathers, much like a duck seeking oil
from the duct near its tail. Then, using
the lower mandible as a trowel and the
neck as a gauge, they have applied that
to the nest-material. My theory is that,
when it sets, the stuff resembles cobweb.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The bobtail-lizards
and their cousins the blue-tongues have
emerged from hibernation throughout
sou’-Westralia, and as usual they’re being
confused with each other. They’re
closely related, but there are important
differences. Blue-tongue can’t boast
much of a tail, but it’s a darn sight better
equipped than Bobtail, who barely has
a stump. Blue-tongue isn't much of a
speedster, but he can mote when he has
to, whereas nothing can stir Bobtail into
anything faster than a waddle. Also,
Blue isn't as scaly-backed as Bob, and
while Bob’s almost certainly a vegetarian,,
and loves strawberries and flowers, Blue
varies a similar diet with an occasional
snail or small insect. But their greatest
difference is in the birthrate. They’re
both viviparous, but Mrs. Bobtail goes
in for single births, or at most she'll
settle for twins. I’ve seen a blue-tongue's
nest with more than a dozen young.
* * * *
TM'ominate as the understatement of the
' year an American importer’s com-
ment that the Japs are beating Queens-
land fishermen to their tuna catch.
They're beating the whole of Australia,
and a big part of Africa, too —and not
only for tuna. Probably the bulk of
the Jap’s tuna catch comes out of the
Pacific, but they also send big boats into
COUNTRY SCENE
Wheeling his pony the brown, sturdy
stockman
Comes on his way with a mob of red
cattle
Bringing them surely to fresh, better
pastures.
They jostle through trees and surge over
spear-grass;
Then burst on the road (a miniature
country —
Sheer cliffs and smooth hillsides,
Deep creeks and wide valleys)
To the crack of his stockwhip,
Man and horse turning as graceful as
skaters.
“Come beyind /” he bellows and the red
kelpie circling
Comes behind, willing slave, with a con-
stant high barking.
They pour down the road till they come
to the houses,
Go this way and that way,
Stop dead at the fences.
He shouts “Come beyind /” and cracks
twice with his stockwhip
And the pets at the houses, gun-shy. race
for cover,
The housewives stop working,
Their toddlers climb fences,
A car halts to wait,
And the whole world is watching.
They suddenly, docilely flow past the
houses,
And soon there is only the crack of the
stockwhip,
The yells of command and the distant
high barking.
The curtains fall back into place at the
windows.
But brighter is morning for keen horse
and rider,
Red dog and red cattle.
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.


"IN MY MERRY GATTMOBILE!"


the Indian Ocean more than half-way
to Africa—boats big enough to stay out
six months or more ; and it’s anybody’s
guess what fish they catch or in what
quantities. Even comparatively close
inshore around the Westralian coast there
are several species of tuna, and there’s
bound to be more further out, because
these are deep-water fish. There'll also
be mackerel, pilchards, and probably
Australian “salmon” (which aren’t even
remotely related to the salmon family).
These fish may occur out there in huge
shoals, some of which have been seen
from the air to the south of W.A.; one
report mentioning thousands of shoals
extending over 100 miles. Theoretically,
W.A. could provide bases for a big sea-
fishing industry, but it would need big
boats and big factories. The local popu-
lation can’t consume even the present
catch.—“ Spin.”
“Sixtoes”: Watched a great fishing-
contest in a small inlet in northern N.Z.
There were about 40 gannets diving from
a height, easily a dozen Caspian terns
getting theirs just below the surface, and
six or seven shags working the lower
levels in competition with a horde of
kahawai, judging by the sprats breaking
the water. To round it off, blackbacks
were getting anything dropped in the
excitement, and a couple of blue herons
were running optimistically up and down
the edge of the tide for any small stuff
coming ashore. All this in less than an
acre of water. No wonder they say
“poor fish.”
* * * *
“Farinmail”: Very involved ant-
warfare has been causing headaches
among coconut - plantation owners in
the Hisiu district, 40 miles east
of Port Moresby. Plantations have
been affected by a flying insect,
Amblypelta , which causes young
coconuts to fall prematurely. The
green Kurukum ants live off the
Amblypelta , and, if left alone, can control
them. But the Grazy ant, which nests
at the base of coconut-trees, attacks the
Kurukums, forming a protective ring
around coconut-palms. The Kurukums
being unable to climb into the palm-
trunks, the Amblypelta have been thriv-
ing unmolested. In an attempt to by-
pass the Grazy ants, palm-fronds have
been tied against the trunks so the
Kurukums can climb them. Latest com-
muniques from the front report that both
sides are winning ants down.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Reported that some Home-
bush (N.S.W.) butchers knocked-back a
contract to export meat to America be-
cause of the excessive care involved. A
Westialian meatworks that accepted one
such contract thought the rigid require-
ments (one is that there mustn't be a
suspicion of a bruise-mark) were cooked-
up to apply especially to meat imported
into the U.S.; but they’re not. The
specifications for their own slaughter-
houses are every bit as close, and Ameri-
can friends tell me our standards are low.
sje j«e $
“L. 8.5.”: Told there was a strange
horse in one of his paddocks, a farmer
here in N.Z. promptly put a notice in
the local paper that unless said horse
was removed immediately it would be
impounded. Personal investigation next
day revealed the intruder as his own,
which he had lost some time before.
* * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Having lately investi-
gated social, economic and cultural con-
ditions of Torres Strait islanders, an
all-party committee of Queensland Par-
liament has recommended a school to
train Thursday Island natives as pearl-
divers ; regular inspection of diving-
equipment on luggers; strict policing
of the sale of methylated-spirit; and
facilities for employment on the main-
land in slack times, in view of the
doubtful future of the mother-of-pearl
industry. Federal and State Govern-
ments will be asked to examine the
possibilities of mineral and fishing indus-
tries, and to aid the islanders as a
separate race, instead of trying to pro-
mote “assimilation.”
* * * *
“Xavier”: Mundubbera (Q.) has been
accorded a unique distinction. The
bowling-club has had a black stump set
in concrete on the town’s outskirts,
whilst an elaborate sign records the
action. The “monument” was unveiled
with due solemnity by a Minister of the
Crown. .So Mundubbera can, literally
and figuratively, lay claim to being “be-
yond tne black stump.” More specifically
it is some 90 miles west of Maryborough.
* * * *
“Ringerette”: Andrew, our chief
native stock-boy, was having trouble with
his vehicle, but after hours of patient
tinkering the engine suddenly roared into
life, and Ruby, Andrew’s better-half,
came marching triumphantly over for
stores. “The old bus is right now, eh,
Ruby?” I inquired. She nodded, grinned
hugely, and airily explained: “That
Andrew—’e ’ad them spark-plugs too
close together!”
* * * *
“Agricola”: With Queensland’s cen-
tenary coming up next year, an argument
has been raging as to which was the
biggest nugget of gold ever found in the
State. Well, that’s easy. George Curtis
and his nephew Briggs found it in
February, 1868, oh the Gympie field. It
was a 9750 z. lump, and they struck it on
an abandoned claim near the head of a
dry watercourse called Sailor’s Gully.
The former owners claimed it, but the
courts awarded it to the discoverers.
When smelted down the nugget yielded
9060 z. of pure gold, which the Sydney
Mkit bought for £3132 9s. 9d. Before
leaving for the south the nugget was
exhibited in Maryborough, the public
paying a bob a peek. The money raised
went to build the first part of the present
Gympie Hospital.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: “Cadam’s” Bung who
celebrated sacking his cook in the opposi-
tion pub (B. 15/10/’5B) reminded me
of nearly 40 years ago when I lived for
some months at a pub in a small Queens-
land town whose licensee, around 8 p.m.
most evenings, called all and sundry- to
quaff freely on the house. After about
half-an-hour of this liberality our host's
buxom missus, warned by one of the
staff, would bustle into the bar objecting
in colorful language, summarily bundle
her now half-sprung spouse out, and take
strict charge herself. Free drinks would
cease forthwith, what time Bung
staggered over to the opposition to con-
tinue his binge with one or two hangers-
on at retail prices. He had entered the
hotel business by virtue of a Golden
Casket lottery-win, had liquidated it in
the manner described, and had won the
same lottery again, all within two-and-a-
half years.


Outback storekeeper managed to put
his monicker on banking business ;
apart from that he couldn’t read or write.
He kept accounts by using a series of
symbols both to identify customers and
to show what goods had been supplied.
A cocky queried one charge. “Never
bought a whole cheese in my life, Bill,”
he complained. “Show me your entry.”
When the storekeeper brought out his
book and pointed to the entry the agri-
culturist laughed. “That wasn’t a cheese,
it was a grindstone! ” he roared.
“Strewth, so it was!” admitted the store-
keeper. “I forgot to put a square in the
circle! ” —“Pallamana.”
* * * *
“Paddy’s Mate”: Bill, the wool-store
manager, had arrived earlier than usual
so as not to hold-up the buyers with their
valuing. As he threw open the door the
store cat set up a howl for its breakfast.
Bill, who dissembled a fondness for it
with strange speech, greeted the fummy’s
importunities with a hearty: “Well, you
slab-sided, miserable-looking blankard,
what the hell are you shivering about?”
Then from inside the office came the
voice of the telephone-girl: “I’m so sorry,
Mr. Bill, but I c-c-can’t help it. It’s so
c-c-c-cold this morning!”
* * * *
“Macquarie”: “Quarter Cut” was right
in guessing that the timber in my spirit-
level was red- not pencil- cedar (B.
15/10/’5B), but he’s wrong in stating
that red-cedar was rarely used for
levelling- or plumbing-tools in building.
For more than 30 years I have always
made my own plumb-rules and levels
of it, and my dad and the brickies of
his generation would have nothing else ;
yet the case I mentioned (B. 17/9/’5B)
was the only instance in which I’ve
known seasoned red-cedar to show signs
of being affected by the weather. The
best explanation to date was given by
a Tech.-teacher of carpentry: “During
the 113 years the timber was fixed in the
building it was withstanding some slight
stress. When you pulled it out and made
it into a level the stress was removed.
Now, when damp atmospheric condi-
tions swell the wood fibres it gradually
warps back to its original shape.
* ¥ * *
“Cunedda”: Bow-making timbers (B.
8/10/’58)? In his book on Portugal
(reviewed a few months ago on the Red
Page) the late Roy Campbell claimed
that orangewood was superior to yew.
It could, he said, bring down an elephant,
and in Mozambique he got a crocodile
with one. During the Spanish Civil War
he used them with deadly effect. His
arrows were barbless and featherless.
Among those wounded with them was
George Orwell, author of Animal Farm
and 1984.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Merimbula, on N.S.W.’s
South Coast, has come into the lime-
light with the opening of its first church
—it was big enough to support a pub,
dance-hall, shops, bacon-factory, etc.,
but up to now it has never had a church ;
people travelled to neighboring towns
to worship, or occasionally ministers held
services in rented halls. Matthew Munn
first placed Merimbula on the map with
a maizena-factory on the shore of the
pretty lake, planted fields of maize, and
turned-out what was considered the
world’s best cornflower. It is many years
since this cornflower was produced at
Merimbula, but the old stone building
was used as a bacon-factory until.
“The gentleman Wants to know if We're interested in keeping the TV .”
destroyed by fire. Today a new building
houses the bacon-factory, a co-operative
undertaking.
> * * * »
“Emjai”: A couple of visiting movie-
men in the bar of the pub raised the
argument about a ’roo not being able
to jump backwards ; and one of the locals
bet him drinks that it could, and that
they could get photographic proof there
and then. The boomer was in a high-
palinged, half-acre enclosure, and the
conductor’s patter at the high galvanised-
iron gate was sufficient to ensure that the
captive was sniffing there in hope of a
titbit, or escape. Then, with the stage
set, he slammed the gate open in the face
of the ’roo, which certainly leaped back-
wards. But it promptly rebounded
forwards, and it was the cameraman’s
turn to jump backwards. Upside-down
as the ’roo sailed over him, he missed
his pictures; but he paid for the drinks.
* * * *
A Nuffield Foundation grant has
been made for hundreds of small
animals to be flown from Australia to
St. Bartholomew Hospital, London, for
radiation examination in comparison
with animals in other countries.
I don’t know whether it’s the atom-
bomb or not, but in Australia there
have certainly been some queer goings-on
in the animal world. Between Ourimbah
and Wyong (N.S.W.) a foot-long turtle
settled down for a nap in the railway-
points, dislocating the train-service. At
Healesville (Vic.) masses of caterpillars
simply bogged a diesel-engif e—brooms
fitted to engines failed to remove them
—and streets and paddocks seemed to
be moving. Then a herd of cattle
settled down for the night on a stretch
of line at Albury, derailing a good’s-
train engine.
In Queensland bees have been losing
their hair, and suffering from paralysis,
Elsewhere, minute bacteria have grounded
Canberra bombers, and jellyfish have
defeated the purpose of the most ingeni-
ous devices used on submarines. A
foal shut himself up in the morgue of
the Adelong (N.S.W.) Hospital.
In Africa fleas are driving elephants
and hippos mad, while in Leopold,
Belgian Congo, they have taken charge
of the whole town, even the trains. Bees
grounded a new Viscount plane for days
in South Africa, while in Germany TV
and radar signals are fracturing the
delicate wave-lengths used by butterflies
to send out their love-signals, so it is
forecast the butterflies will soon be only
a memory.
In England white moths are breeding
themselves black to match the smog,
while twin turkeys have been born from
a single egg in Kent. In N.Z. a breeder
of pheasants has a four-legged pheasant
chicken that is managing life quite well,
thank you.
A farmer in Yugoslavia wondered why
his goats no longer gave milk, so he
sat up one night thinking to catch a
neighbor; he found the culprits were
snakes, which milked the resting goats
at night.
Then there’s the cat which, taken to
the Pyrenees from Central France, re-
turned home —a mere 300 miles. And
in Australia a dog which had been
missing for three years also returned
home, a bag of bones and almost bereft
of foot-pads—no one knows how many
miles it had travelled.
MIQUE.


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. URQUHART, M. D. PASSMORE, K. W. A. BRIDGES
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
25 O’CONNELI. STREET
SYDNEY
Telephone
BW 8.171 (:i lines)
Cables '& Telegrams
“EMDECELEX.” Sydney
DAVIS, ROTHWELL & CO.
(.Incorporating Headlam, Hewson & Co.)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
C Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange .)
117 PiU Street, Sydney.
BL 1855 (3 lines)
110 Lords Place, Orange.
Orange 4054
Telegraphic ami Cable Address, “RETEP/' Sydney.
DEFICIT FINANCE
T ike an opium-addict, Sydney
“Herald” has been wailing
for more deficit-finance than
the Menzies Government cared
to provide in the Budget it
presented in August.
Dr. Evatt appears to agree
with the “Herald’s” demands,
or at least to sympathise
keenly with “Granny’s” addic-
tion —or predeliction.
Both appear to believe that
the economy needs to be
“stimulated” or “reactivated”
by a greater infusion of money
into the economic system.
In both instances the think-
ing is shallow, inchoate and
generally half-baked —rag-trade
economics at their worst.
Australia’s great problem is
now, and has been for many
years, its relatively high cost
of production and transport.
Export industries are finding
that these high costs are making
it unprofitable to export many
of our primary products. At
Broken Hill the silver-lead
mines have reduced output
because of the high cost of
mining relative to the low
prices received overseas for
metals.
No injection of money into
the Australian credit system
will make it easier for the
Broken Hill mines to show a
profit on exports. Nor will
woolgrowers, dairyfarmers or
wheatgrowers find it easier to
export at a profit. More likely
is it that a stiff infusion of
central - bank credit would
make it more difficult for
export industries to face the
higher costs that would be
likely to follow. This would be
particularly so if Dr. Evatt’s
proposal to reintroduce cost-of-
living adjustments to wages
should come to pass, as an
adjunct to deficit-finance.
Legitimate Use
There are legitimate uses for
deficit-finance. When unem-
ployment is threatening (or
where reserves of idle man-
power and materials already
exist) on a considerable scale
as a result of slackness in indus-
tries selling to the local market
some stimulus may be
warranted in the way of
Treasury-bill finance. It would
indeed be a national disaster
if unemployment reached a
point where men able and
willing to work were unable
to find employment in a
country crying-out for develop-
ment as is the case in Australia.
But there is no serious unem-
“Mind if I come, too ?”
ployment in Australia at the
present time. There may be
temporary patches of unem-
ployment among some essential
workers, such as coalminers
(in odd instances), but in rela-
tion to the total work-force in
the Commonwealth, unemploy-
ment is small indeed.
In any case, the use of
central-bank credit to relieve
unemployment calls for careful
planning in advance, and the
expenditure (when of a public
nature) needs to be made, as
far as possible, on national
works that will assist in
development of the nation, in
increasing productivity and in
reducing costs.
Unplanned, or badly
planned, expenditure out of
central-bank credit could be a
major national disaster because
of the financial inflation and
industrial demoralisation that
would follow it.
It is far better to attempt to
deal with unemployment at its
source (such as by special
attention to a _ particular
industry) than by splurging
central-bank credit indiscrimi-
nately through the economy.
Bank-credit is no cure-all
for the inherent problems of,
say, our coastal shipping
industry. Most of the problems
exist in the way that industry is
conducted by the unions and
by other interests. There are
other industries facing similar
internal problems.
Reducing taxation and
making-up the „ consequently
increased Budget “gap”
through deficit-finance might
be justifiable to a degree in
some circumstances surround-
ing depressed industries, but,
overall, inflationary action that
wastes manpower is more
dangerous than depression that
wastes manpower.
Australia’s problem, even in
times of depression, is to
reduce costs and eliminate
waste of manpower as well as
to reduce unemployment.
In almost any economic crisis
it will be found that a true
solution exists only in the offer
of greater efficiency and pro-
ductivity by all sections of
industry in return for easier
financial facilities.
In many cases it would be
better policy to give private
enterprise an overdraft than to
increase the Government’s
overdraft with the central bank.
Private enterprise creates capi-
tal when it makes a profit, a
most useful thing, in a slump
or recession. Governments do
not create capital. They con-
sume it.
Treasury - bill finance is
simply overdraft finance. The
Treasury-bills are the security
granted to the bank in return
for the overdraft.
Deficit-finance Background
The idea of deficit-finance
is not new. A quarter-of-a-
century ago an Australian,
the late Horace E. P. Bracey, of
Bracey’s Stores, Lithgow, was
an ardent advocate of a credit
policy based on a “zero unem-
ployment total.” Another
expression of his plan was “the
right to work for' everyone
able and willing to work.”
J. M. Keynes, of course, sold
something of the same idea to
President Roosevelt in the
U.S.A., though not in such
straightforward language. Later
an American named Chase (not
of the celebrated bank) wrote
persuasively about “the com-
pensatory budget theory,” and
made it sound all too easy.
The Menzies-Fadden Gov-
ernment has been called upon,
over the past nine years, to
implement the second part of
the “compensatory budget
theory” first —that is, it has
been endeavoring, until
recently, to draw-off surplus
revenue by budgeting for a
surplus and has thereby estab-
lished its bona fides.
Only during the current year
has it budgeted for a cash
deficit of £llO million.
And that cash deficit, in the
present circumstances, seems
to be quite enough to contem-
plate for a while.
Oil Search, Ltd.
T)rospectus of a new Oil
Search offshoot, to be called
Papuan Oil Search, Ltd., is
almost ready for publication,
the object being to continue the
search for oil in Papua after
the ending of. the financial aid
from BP and Vacuum. The
new company aims to raise
£5,000,000, and should this be
done it will probably obtain
the right to 4H p.c. of the
assets of Australasian Petro-
leum Co. and Islands Explora-
tion Co., including the gas
already discovered.
Chairman G. B. Kater, at
the annual meeting of Oil
Search, Ltd., said the reason
why BP and Vacuum were not


J. T. HARRY & DIXON
(Eric E. Dixon, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
11 3 Pitt St.,
Sydney
Telephone: BL 1987
Tel. Add.: “Harry Stock Exchange,” Sydney
t*
CC^
*AVt t 0
*
pM*'*
cow
m
ooo,^
£A
r^\jß^
018
H
tG&<*
NVOR
NtfVM*
C\S^
Kit*
St
000
500
fob
t%CC
pvSS^ s
£237 Cover for each £lOO
As set out in the prospectus by Hancock &
Woodward, Chartered Accountants (Aust;).
JHH
fjyP% p.a... sto 12 years
7’/2 % p.a • 4 years
#7. p.a. . .... 3 years
5Vi, p.a • 1 year
5% p.a. .... 9 months
4 Vi, p.a 6 months
4% p.a. • • • • 3 months
lnterest paid quarterly—Free of Exchange
Also avaiiabie:7% Cumulative Stock from 4-20 yrs.
NOTE: Cumulative Stock is particularly suitable for the investor
who wishes to see his capital increase at a very satisfactory rate.
Funds thus invested double themselves in ten years and more
than treble themselves in 17 years.
Underwriting Brokers: lAN POTTER & CO.
Applications will be accepted from
All Members of the Stock Exchange
All Branches of th 3 Bank of New South Wales
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE CO. LTD.
SYDNEY Gen. Office: 316 Pitt St. MA9701
Sec. & Treas.: 381 Pitt St. MA9615
CANBERRA: Melbourne Bldgs., London Circuit. J 1245
The Treasurer, The Mutual Acceptance Co. Ltd.
381 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Please send me a Debenture Prospectus.
NAME-
ADDRESS
MUT—N.S.W.
B-5-11
prepared to put up any more
money was probably . that
profits of the big overseas oil-
companies were falling and
that there was a world glut of
oil. “On the other hand, Aus-
tralia has no oil at all,” he
added.
Following the meeting, direc-
tors of Oil Search, Ltd., con-
firmed that gas reserves had
been estimated at 400,000-
million c.f. in the Barikewa
well and 60,000-million c.f. in
the Kuru well in Papua. These
gas deposits remained the
property of the two original
operating companies, in which.
Oil Search, Ltd., at present has
only a 10 p.c. interest. (After
successful flotation of Papuan
Oil Search, Ltd., its direct
interest will be 8| p.c., but
direct and indirect it will
remain at about 10 p.c.)
There are reported to be nego-
tiations with the Wei p a
aluminium interests for the
utilisation of these gas reserves.
Oil Search, Ltd., itself has
an issued capital of 14,120,576
shares of ss. each. These were
active at the weekend at
around par following reports
of small quantities of oil being
produced in a test of one of the
wells now drilling.
* * * *
[From “Jackpot”]
T'wo points emerging from
the Oil Search, Ltd., meet-
ing seem worth comment. In
reply to a question concerning
the estimated gas reserves
sealed-off in the Barikewa well,
the chairman said it was esti-
mated to be 400,000-million
cubic-feet. Using the figures of
550 heat-units per cubic-foot of
natural gas and 8000 units per
pound of coal, this means there
is heat bottled-up equivalent
to about 12-million tons of
coal. Commonwealth produc-
tion of coal last year was just
under 20-million tons.
The second point was the
chairman’s inability to answer
questions of a technical nature.
If none of the directors is quali-
fied to give expert information
the board should have a
technical man who can do so.
On the Mainland
[From Jj. Owen]
Tn Western Australia —in spite
of the P.M.’s pre-drilling
cabalistics —the Meda well is
entering on its final tests, while
the Goldwyer bore has pene-
trated “suspected basement
beds” at a point far above that
suspected from the geophysical
interpretations. This well,
quite rightly, is to be acidised
at those limestone horizons
which produced indications of
oil during drilling operations.
Acid treatment is new to this
country, but it has been
employed elsewhere, for many
years past, to bring about a rise
in production by increasing the
permeability in tight lime-
stones. In most cases where
this technique has been success-
fully used, however, the pre-
acidising yield has been
measurable and not, as at
Goldwyer, merely oil-stains
showing fluorescence.
In N.S.W., at Clifden, near
Grafton, even the less-substan-
tial “definite signs of gas and
strong petroliferous odor” has
been reported.
In South Australia, any real
test of the oil possibilities of
its last-remaining hope, the
north-east corner of the State,
is yet to be made.
The overall situation on the
mainland is thus one which
calls for new analyses and re-
appraisernent of available data,
improvement of technique and
the introduction of new
methods of attack, rather than
for unreasoned jubilation in
the sharemarket.
In the rather clouded Aus-
tralian oil outlook, the
announcement, on October 28,
by the chairman of directors of
the Shell group of companies
in Australia, that a Royal
Dutch-Shell company will join
in the search for oil in Western
Australia forms a welcome
break.
Shell can draw on the fruits
of long experience in the search
for petroleum in regions in
which the geological conditions
and history approach those of
Western Australia.
Minster, Ltd.
At the annual meeting of
Minster, Ltd., it was
announced that the third unit
of the carpet-manufacturing
plant at Dandenong was well
advanced and that it should
be in production towards the
end of the present financial
year. The products of the
chief subsidiary, Westminster
Carpets, Ltd., continue in
strong demand.
A subsidiary company has
been formed in British
Columbia to facilitate the
export of Westminster carpet
to Western Canada. “No sub-
stantial export trade has yet
been developed, but there
appears to be a potential mar-
ket which we are endeavoring
to promote,” the chairman
said.
The comparatively low labor
content in the cost of West-
minster carpet should enable
it to compete on almost any
market of the world provided
tariff barriers are not too high,
The earning-rate on the
capital of Minster, Ltd., was
34.4 p.c. in the past financial
year and the dividend 15 p.c.
...
Taxation inquiry
‘Oecause of the increasing
complexity of taxation,
Menzies, P.M., in his policy-
speech promised to set-up a
competent and independent
public investigation into the
taxation laws,
This is a most important
promise, and it is to be hoped


BY APPOINTMENT TO
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS,
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHNNIE I
WALKER
BORN 1820 — STILL GOING STRONG
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
j
JW.184.ia
OPPORTUNITY FOR RURAL INVESTMENT
“SPRING VALLEY”
1,582 ACRES FREEHOLD uniquely situated in the pic-
turesque Murringo Valley in the rich Young district of
New South Wales
TO BE OFFERED AT AUCTION AT YOUNG ON
2lst NOVEMBER, 1958, at 3 P.M.
This well balanced property is located in a zone of moderate
climate and safe rainfall which averages 28 inches per annum.
It is very well improved and highly productive land, eminently
suited for pasture improvement and fodder conservation, and is
noted for the quality of fat lambs, vealers, wool, lucerne and
cereal crops produced.
Fuller details may be obtained from the Selling Agents—
Australian, Mercantile, Land* & Finance Co., Ltd.
(Incorporated in England),
Young Branch (Phone Young 597).
Details will also be available from all Company Branches in
New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland.
that it leads to the elimination
of many of the anomalies now
obvious in the taxation of
companies and dividends to
shareholders.
Australian United Corp.
/Chairman lan Potter, at
the annual meeting of
Australian United Corpora-
tion, Ltd., Melbourne, said
that one of the corporation’s
subsidiaries, Australian United
Acceptance Pty., Ltd., had
plans for rapid expansion. Its
outstandings had reached
£1,350,000 by June 30, and
they had since grown to
£2,880,000.
S. F. A. Bryson, an
actuary, and formerly assis-
tant-governor of the , Com-
monwealth Bank, had been
appointed an executive director
of A.U. Acceptance, and in a
relatively brief time much had
been accomplished in widening
the co.’s activities in the short-
term money-market. This had
involved discussion and nego-
tiations with banking, financial
and commercial interests in
Australia and overseas.
Business of the A.U.C.
group as a whole had steadily
progressed since the June 30
accounts were made-up. Aus-
tralian United Enterprises Pty.,
Ltd., had acquired interests in
44 public companies in the
past year. These cost £BBI,OOO,
and had a market value of
£936,000 at June 30.
Substantial underwriting
business appeared to be in the
offing for Australian United
Underwriting Co., and Austra-
lian United Development had
advanced about £350,000 to
private companies, including
the acquisition of Charter-
house Aust. Pty., Ltd.
Alliance Debentures
A lliance Holdings, Ltd.,
vvhich is 44.4 p.c.-con-
trolled by Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance, is offering
£1 million in first-mortgage
debenture-stock at interest
ranging from 5 p.c. p.a. for
one year to 74 p.c. for 6-10
years. Debenture-stock in
excess of £1 million may be
issued, but not to an extent
exceeding six times share-
holders funds or in excess of a
ratio of 70-to-100 in relation to
liquid assets.
Net tangible cover for
£1,000,000 of debentures is
estimated at £585 per £lOO,
rising to £685 per £lOO on pay-
ment in full by the M.L.C. for
its shareholding. If £2 million
is issued, the backing is put at
£342 and £392 respectively.
The security for the deben-
tures is a first charge over the
whole of the assets of Alliance
Holdings, Ltd., Alliance Accep-
tance Co., Ltd., and Porta-
down Discounts, Ltd.
Simday-newspaper War
[From “M.F.D.”]
Tt will probably come as a
A surprise to many newspaper-
readers in N.S.W. to learn
that a few months ago a pro-
posal to abandon production
of the “Sun-Herald,” “Sunday
Telegraph” and “Truth” in
favor of a Saturday-night
magazine from each of the
three offices came close to
being adopted. Two of the
companies are said to have
favored the change, but the
third one rejected it, and as a
result there is now an all-in war
between them in which “finda-
words,” “telewords” and
“coinawords” are the chief
weapons of assault on a public
which craves nothing so much
as an accurate, up-to-date and
impartial cover of the news.
Sunday-newspaper produc-
tion has always been a costly
business, mainly because of
penalty-rates and high distri-
bution costs. The size of a
week-day paper can safely be
reduced occasionally, without
risk of circulation-loss, but as
most Sunday sales are on a
casual basis, a skeleton publi-
cation would have small chance
of selling against its bulkier
rivals.
The merging of “Truth” in
the “Sunday Mirror” is prob-
ably a direct result of the
failure of the three companies
to agree on the production of
a Saturday-night magazine •in
lieu of the Sunday production,
and competition is now keener
than ever.
When Capital Isn’t Wanted
C'tate Premiers at present are
vying with each other in
attempts .to attract overseas
“capital, particularly from the
United States, and generally
their efforts, when successful,
have been applauded. And in
most cases deservedly so. But
there comes a time when one
must question the introduction
of overseas capital to set-up
industries which are already
well represented in the Com-
monwealth, and which it would
be better to continue to service
with our own indigenous
capital.
Recently it was announced
that American capital was be-
ing introduced to develop
gypsum resources in W.A.
Unless it is intended to export
the gypsum it is hard to see
what essential purpose is being
served by this move. Already
there are adequate gypsum-
mills within the Common-
wealth, and these are being
added to and modernised.
Overseas capital should be
welcomed for doing things we
can't do ourselves, or which
we are doing badly. But indis-
criminate soliciting of over-
seas capital by State Premiers,
on a purely political basis,
should not be encouraged.




JACK
om
ARTS
Circular Chartj for all type*
of Recording Instrument!
•or any class of Machinery
METER CHARTS a Specialty
ACCURACY GUARANTEED
3T O' SD LLI VAN % l u
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
Thl* only GREAT PI’BIAC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A, FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Kurtz and Krips
Despite an unimaginative
selection of items’, played in
Sydney Town Hall on a swel-
tering night, conductor Henry
Krips and ’cellist Edmund
Kurtz teamed in a noble per-
formance of Dvorak’s Concerto
in B Minor, Op. 104.
Before the Russian - born
soloist came on to the platform
the orchestra plunged into
Weber’s astringent “Euryanthe”
Overture, whirling along to the
middle-section, where, like a
hush before a storm, there is a
delicate string dialogue. Then
Kurtz, preceded by his great
shining ’cello, appeared and sat
down at the conductor’s left
hand. There must have been
a good 50 bars to wait, so while
Krips and co. went at it
hammer - and - tongs Kurtz
gently applied a handkerchief
to his brow. Finally, as if by
remcte-dontrol, his bow-arm
curved back, hovered, and hit
the strings.
Kurtz is little short of a
master in his tonal and
rhythmic control ; this was
apparent in the chromatic run
in the first movement, followed
by the run of ascending octaves
(intriguing—and difficult) and
the two upward sweeps in sixths
—all, as it were, bounding from
his fingers/ leaping from the
sound - board. The second
movement, an adagio, had
more than a hint of synthetic
martial pomp, notwithstanding
the sonority of the curving prin-
cipal theme. The finale was,
perhaps, the spot where Kurtz’s
brilliance sparkled most. A
virtuoso’s delight, this move-
ment, with the main theme all
urgency and fire.
But Dvorak introduces so
many marvellous themes in
each section that you tend to
become dazzled ; the effect is
like eating too much rich
chocolate. He saves himself by
consummate artistry in his
scoring; then the themes,
allowing for their multiplicity,
certainly are striking in polished
warmth.
Last on the programme was
Sibelius's First Symphony in E
Minor. Maybe the orchestral
members were beginning to feel
“ Here's the gimmick. You're an ordinary married guy mixed up
with the F.B.I. and the call-girl racket. Your wife's a simple
dope-fiend emotionally involved with her headshrinker.”
the heat ; at any rate this four-
movement essay, full of pine-
forests, streams and snow-
storms, just falling short of the
glory of programme-music,
was characterised in the softer
passages by indecision in tim-
ing. The fortes were good, no-
where better than in the
scherzo, with its forthright
tympani figuration.
Adrian Wintle.
+*<- <j+
“Not in the Book”
As The Bulletin’s Melb-
ourne commentator has already
noted, this, now at Sydney
Royal, is a pleasantly amusing,
pleasantly titillating comedy-
thriller about a blackmailer and
a victim who plans to murder
him according to the pattern
suggested by a manuscript he
has just read. It is the kind of
thing which producer William
Rees always handles very well
and in which Edwin Styles,
who heads the cast, can toss-
off one of his polished virtuoso
performances which are an
entertainment on their own.
With him, Sophie Stewart, as
his wife, and Ellis Irving, as
Colonel Barstow (and what
loving emphasis the rest of the
cast give that name), as a
blundering, blustering old
nuisance, make a highly com-
petent comedy trio.
Laurier Lange hides behind
a thick accent as the South
American blackmailer in pos-
session of police papers which
could incriminate the eminently
respectable civil servant who
is indulging in the righteous
glow of having just finished
paying-off the mortgage and
for the education of his son
and daughter. Unable to pay
the blackmailer, he decides to
risk murder rather than destroy
his family, and is so completely
absorbed in his own criminal
intentions that he is scarcely
aware of the fact that his wife
has been booked for driving
over the lines of a pedestrian-
crossing and that his son has
unintentionally assaulted a
family friend, who fortunately
did not recognise his assailant.
Each is terrified by possible
consequences, and their con-
versation is often at comic
cross-purposes. A doctor and
author, both neighbors, and a
police-inspector who makes
half-a-dozen calls for routine
inquiries on the traffic matter
and to sell tickets for the police
ball all contribute to the situa-
tion, and there’s nothing quite
so funny in the show as Mr.
Styles’s confusion regarding the
contents of the sugar-bowl and
poison-jar when he is preparing
his murder and is interrupted
by the sundry callers.
❖ ♦> *>
Royal Ballet
This admirable company
winds -up its distinguished
season at Sydney Empire next
Saturday and moves to Mel-
bourne. It has maintained a
happy variety of well-balanced
programmes and has come for-
ward practically every week
with a new dancer or a fresh
ballet.
Last week, after an excellent
performance in “Nude With
Violin,” which finished its
run at Sydney Royal, Robert
Helpmann transferred to the
ballet, appearing in “The
Ra k e’s Progress” and


Ask for the NEW
colour and styles
called
"MY FAIR LADY"
highlighted in
Kayser
HOSIERY
LINGERIE
GLOVES
Missing Friend
O’DONNELL.—Would FRANCIS
O’DONNELL (the son of the late
CLAUDE O’DONNELL and ANNIE
CARTER O’DONNELL), or any other
person knowing of his whereabouts,
kindly communicate with MESSRS.
BLAKE & RIGGALL, of 120 William
Street, Melbourne?
-Ok
V
Best
Mineral
Supplement
For all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over 65%
tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed minimum of
30% phosphoric acid and 40% lime. Because there
is little protein and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do
not pay for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes the
really palatable and wholesome lick.
Tri-Cal-Os
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
«•/. T.i-cplclc rta'pE* l
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied —>
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O. Box 3583,
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Box 590, NEWCASTLE
• G.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
Box 712 F, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Box 758 K,
BRISBANE • G.P.O. Box H5BB, PERTH
• G.P.O. Box 533, LAUNCESTON.
FROM LEADING
STOCK & STATION AGENTS
“Facade.” The former seems
an oddly dated piece, strong in
style, but rather lacking in
beauty or drama, the two most
enduring qualities of ballet. In
the matter of sheer nimbleness
Helpmann was outdanced, but
never outacted —although it
was difficult to decide whether
it was a note of detached
amusement in his dancing, or
the dated atmosphere of the
ballet itself which sustained a
hint of comedy in many places
where it wasn’t required.
Johaar Mosaval’s dancing in
the first scene was the highlight
of that department, and the
second scene, a rich and joy-
ously sinful romp with wine
and women in a bawdy-house,
was by far the best of the six
scenes which culminate in the
grotesqueries of the madhouse.
Helpmann showed his pace
again with character and
comedy in “Fagade,” although,
unless this commentator’s
memory is slipping, the little
bit of scene-swiping with some
comic business while Pamela
Moncur, Margaret Knoeson
and Johaar Mosaval were
dancing their Scottish Rhap-
sody is not really in the book.
The second act of “Swan
Lake,” in which Rowena
Jackson demonstrated her bril-
liant, flashing technique, and
the Pas de Deux from Act 111
of “The Sleeping Beauty,” in
which she did the same again
and more so, completed the
programme.
+»♦
“Black Chiffon”
Sydney’s W.E.A. Attic com-
pany, under producer Edward
Jackson, showed considerable
interpretative skill in Lesley
Storm’s taut play about a
mother whose love of her son
proves stronger than the family
tensions it causes.
Sensible, respectable, but
strained for years in the com-
mon conflict between husband
and son, she is caught commit-
ting a humiliating petty theft.
She can save herself in court
by pleading a provable mental
strain. But that would mean
making public her fierce —and
easily misinterpreted —love of
her son, and probably ruining
his coming marriage. She
chooses, rather, to sacrifice
herself and preserve the family.
“There is a point where words
must stop,” and only love is
strong enough for under-
standing.
The plot puts a lot of weight
on the character of the mother,
scene after scene balancing
around her. lima Sutherland
understood and preserved this
balance, moving sensitively
through the tangled emotions
of the woman at breaking-
point to the calm determina-
tion of her final choice.
Except for a tendency to
rush his lines in the early
expository scenes, Hugh
Richardson showed a similar
subtlety in handling the son’s
mixture of devotion to his
mother, resentment of his
father, and a desire to escape
into a life of his own.
J. C. McFarlane, though
hampered by not looking the
part, firmly conveyed the
egotistical father’s confusion
and final fumbling towards a
reconciliation with his son.
As the doctor who is anxious
to have the truth told in court
but is forced to admit and
admire the greater value of the
mother’s sacrifice, John Meaney
was thoughtfully competent,
but did not quite subordinate
his personal accent and
mannerisms to the part.
J. A.
Artbursts
Adelaide Exhibition
The exhibition of “Painters
and Sculptors of Promise” at
the Royal S.A. Society of Arts
really lives up to its name.
Though some of the artists
have local reputations, most of
them are relatively unknown,
and they make the future look
bright.
Though there are plenty of
influences to be detected, which
is fair enough, there is almost
no sign of certain types of
abstract and expressionist
painting that is so out-of-date
and yet so de rigueur in some
circles. These painters and
sculptors are looking hard at
the world we live in and the
odd creatures that we have for
company.
In some cases, such as
Michael Atchison’s “Girl
Skipping” and Yvonne Rollan’s
“Roosters,” the eye has seen
freshly, but the slabby, dull
paint has taken the life out of
the design. In others, such as
Penny Choat, Ruth Gault and
Joyce Lewis, the color is
sparkling enough to carry a
content that is slight. Colin
Green and Lance Lewis, one
firm almost to the point of
stiffness, the other fluid and
suggestive, provide the most
rewarding paintings in the
show, together with David
Dridan’s admirable “Pot of
Gold.”
No fewer than 28 pieces of
sculpture are on view. The
figure-studies of Beverley Dob-
son and Ian McKay are
especially sensitive —in a small
way as yet—and Berend van
der Struik can already handle
the large manner with excep-
tional control. His “Child,”
legs flopping over and face
intense, and his smiling “Greek
Girl” have left mere promise
well behind them.
G. D.
Films
“Imitation General”
This film has a good basic
idea: to stem the plummeting
morale among troops caught
in an enemy trap, a sergeant
dons' the uniform of a dead
general and proceeds by zany
methods to get his men
untrapped. While it is kept on
the plane of easy bantering
comedy it rings the bell, and
Glenn Ford’s dry, whimsical
style suits it to perfection. But
here and there the script-
writers seem to consider that
they have been too daring in
poking at Army brass, so they
break it down with an infusion
of near-solemnity which is at
complete odds with the general
hilarity.
Ford extracts his zippiest
comedy from scenes where he
is conferring with other officers
supposedly junior to him, and
Red Buttons, as a corporal who
enjoys the fun from an inside-
running position, earns a
reasonable share of the grins.
Taina Elg, as a mam’selle not
averse to assisting so presen-
table a general, decorates the
battlescape nicely.
At Sydney St. James.
q &
“Oh, Rosalinda”
This is a classic exposition
of how to spoil a perfectly
good operetta by de-whisker-
ing and face-lifting it —and, of
all people, Michael Powell and
Emeric Pressburger are res-
ponsible, as writers and pro-
ducers. Johann Strauss’s
“Fledermaus” is the victim,
and the only recognisable thing
left in it—except the music,


x/EST
w
.
U* s*’ 5 *’
NEW ISSUE
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANDE CORPORATION LTD.
Australia’s Leading Hire Purchase Organisation, announces a new issue of
7% p.a. . . 6 yrs.
6i% p.a. . . 4 yrs.
Si% p.a. . . 2 yrs.
5% p.a. ... I yr.
4i% p.a. 0.9 mths.
4% p.a. . . 6 mths.
3i% p.a. . . 3 mths*
I.A.C. guarantees fixed quarterly income, free of exchange. For full details, see Prospectus.
These are facts that the wise investor should know.
PAID UP CAPITAL
£10,000,000
ASSETS EXCEED
£55,000,000
A copy of the Prospectus has been
lodged with the Registrar General
in all Capital Cities and Canberra.
Our Auditors, Messrs. L. B. Wallace & Son,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.) wish to state
that as at 31st July, 1958, the amount of issued
Debenture Stock was £23,346,090 secured by a
first floating charge over the tangible assets
of the Company which amounted to
£58.626.014 at that date.
Your copy of the Prospectus is available from Members of Stock Exchanges, 703
Branches of A.N.Z. Bank Limited or I.A.C. Branches.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
(Established 28 years)
MELBOURNE • SYDNEY • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART • CANBERRA
• NEWCASTLE • GEELONG • WOLLONGONG • BUNBURY
Underwriting Brokers:
lan Potter & Co.,
Melbourne, Canberra & Sydney,
Tnistee for the Debenture Stockholdersl
The Perpetual Executors & Trustees Association
of Australia Limited.
093
which is sparklingly treated by
the orchestra—is the central
idea of the fed-up wife tricking
her erring husband into" mak-
ing love to her in mistake for
someone else at a masked bail,
The colors are violent, the
sets vulgarly lavish, and the
dubbed-in singing voices for the
principals are painfully obvious.
It is set in post-war Vienna,
with representatives of the four
occupying Powers mixed-up in
the tepid doings. The talented
people in it include Michael
Redgrave, Mel Ferrer, Anton
Walbrook and Anthony
Quayle.
At Sydney Embassy.
❖ ❖
“A Certain Smile”
Once again, as in “Bonjour
Tristesse,” Franfoise Sagan’s
milk-and-water twaddle about
the love-lives of featherbrain
ponytailers is made the sub-
ject of a film which is spun-out
to inordinate length and which
makes only a token attempt at
character-drawing.
Rossano Brazzi gives a
routine performance as the
smooth, middle-aged roue who,
getting the teenager on the
rebound after a row with her
boy-friend, takes her for a
week’s “romantic” holiday on
the Riviera. Christine Carere,
a young beauty with quite a
personality, shows-up very well
at her first appearance. Jean
Negulesco’s direction is sauve
and glossy, and he makes the
most of the lush scenery at his
disposal.
At Sydney Century.
*£♦
“Man in the Shadow”
A murderer (Zachary Scott)
makes the mistake of confes-
sing his crime on what he thinks
is his death-bed ; when he
recovers he has to bump-off his
confidante, who in the mean-
time has been trying to squeeze
money out of the wife of the
innocent man condemned for
the crime on promise of supply-
ing evidence which will save
him. The development of the
theme into a race against time
might have made a crackerjack
suspense-thriller, but too many
loose plot-ends and some con-
fused switching of scenes from
country to country render it
down into a rather tame affair.
Peter filing is sufficiently oily
as the information-seller, and
Faith Domergue does little
more than register unending
anxiety.
At Sydney Cap : tol.
♦> ♦;« ♦>
“The Snorkel”
This crime-thriller gets away
to a good start with a murder
by gas in a sealed room by a
husband who, wearing a skin-
diver's snorkel-tube and con-
cealed under the floor, makes it
look like suicide. A suspicious
stepdaughter getting on his
trail forces him to attempt the
same treatment for her, and
that is his undoing. Unfortu-
nately, between the opening
and a fairly good denouement
there are long arid stretches and
unconvincing action.
Peter van Eyck, who has been
typed for so long as a jack-
booted Prussian that one
expects him to click heels and
throw a salute every so often,
makes heavy going as the gas-
fancier.
On Greater Union circuit.


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownhills.”
Telephone: BW 1465 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street - -- -- -- -- - Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1171—BW 8088
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Davies, Coop and Co., Ltd.
The fashion in new raisings now trends
strongly toward convertible notes,
and a genial compromise they are, too.
Apart from Davies, Coop’s latest offer-
ing, current or recent samples from
among the notables include issues by
H. C. Sleigh, Moulded Products and
Australian Blue Metal; but there are
many others.
The issuing company reaps an imme-
diate advantage in taxation charges
when relief is most needed ; that is,
during the formative period of the
earning-power of the new capital; and
to the holder of the rights accrues a
flexible and divisible instrument, carry-
ing a fixed if comparatively modest rate
of interest until maturity, when there is
the prospect of a substantial capital-gain
on conversion.
A usual practice, too, is the granting
to the noteholder of a participating right
in any new or bonus issues which may
crop-up during the currency of the notes,
or, alternatively, as in the case of Davies,
Coop’s two convertible issues, the stipu-
lation that no bonus issues will occur
before maturity - date. In most cases,
such notes are an attractive each-way
investment.
The basis of Davies, Coop’s latest
issue of 1,704,054 20s. p.c. convertible
registered unsecured paper was one note
for eight ss. ords. now held and/or one
note for two of the existing 7 p.c. con-
vertible notes.
Although they carry a higher rate of
interest than their predecessors, the notes
convert to equities on somewhat less
attractive terms. On December 31, 1964,
each note automatically converts to three
ords., which would be equivalent to pay-
ing a premium of Is. Bd. a share on a
new issue.
Under the terms of the previous
1957-58 issue, the 1,136,036 20s. 7 p.c.
convertible notes each exchange for four
ss. ordinaries on December 31, 1963.
Also placed on the market earlier in
the year was £1,500,000 of purely fixed-
interest paper carrying 8 p.c., of which
about half matures in April, 1965, and
the rest three years later.
Thus the investor in Davies, Coop
stock has a pretty good idea where he
stands, sure in the knowledge that paid-
up capital will almost double within the
next six years.
The latest (June 30) balance - sheet
already reflects a striking transformation,
and nearly £lf million of note-money
has yet to be recorded:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital* .. £2,534,571 £2,572,071 £2,572,071
Reserves .. .. 2,811,810 2,970,399 3,904,456
Notes .. .. 2,618,836
Mortgage .. 25,000 975,000 1,475,000
Overdraft, net .. 611,886 460,315 974,283
Creditors .. 750,658 681,666 1,559,395
Tax provision .. 288,886 309,851 296,000
Final div. .. 176,593 179,406 179,406
£7,199,404 £8,148,708 £13,579,447
Freeholds .. 2,246,098 2,336,310 4,423,478
Plant, etc. . . 1,375,243 1,543,067 3,510,331
Shares other cos. 37,684 37,684 37,684
Stocks . . . . 2,281,458 2,572,587 3,596,227
Book debts, etc. 1,236,605 1,611,744 1,964,411
Intangibles . . 22,316 47,316 47,316
£7,199,404 £8,148,708 £13,579,447
* Includes £300,000 of 6 p.c. cum. prefs.
In the scaled-up financial picture it
should be noted that of the very sub-
stantial £2,087,168 increase in the book-
value of freehold, land and buildings,
£678,023 stemmed from an independent
revaluation of these assets, and supple-
mented a previous revaluation, which in
1955 added £1,196,397 to reserves.
Another notable amplification was in
the item “plant and machinery,” and the
net £1,967,264 hereto added testifies to
the thoroughness with which Davies,
Coop’s internal overhaul and external
expansion is being carried through. The
present nearly-completed project at
Rydalmere, N.S.W., where a 430,000-
sq.-ft. mill has been built and is being
equipped with the very best that the
textile-machinery industry has to offer,
will, together with other far-reaching
developments at the Footscray (Vic.)
headquarters, eventually run the group
into approximately £8 million in capital-
outlay.
The net addition to fixed assets during
the year was £4,054,432, and to current
assets, £1,376,307, a total of £5,430,739,
financed from combined note-issues
(£2,618,836), and additions to reserves
(£934,057), bank-overdraft (£513,968),
mortgages (£500,000), and creditors, etc.
(£863,878).
With a wad of money still to come in,
and a reasonably healthy current rate
of reserve-building, a reapproach by
Davies, Coop to the long-term money-
market doesn’t appear likely.
It follows, therefore, that immediate
investment interest in the ss. ordinaries
will be confined to indicated income
prospects, and then there is the question
of the future of the present rate of
dividend when the convertible notes
have run their term. Yield at present
is £7 10s. p.c. from a market-price of
12s. for the scrip, each unit of which
carries a backing of 13s. 6d. in net
tangibles.
Davies, Coop is perhaps equalled, but
not overshadowed, by its counterpart,
Bradford Cotton Mills, in Australia’s
youthful but vigorous cotton-textile in-
dustry, and the two giants dominate this
field, which, nevertheless, seems to be
expanding at a rate fast enough to allow
both groups ample room to spread their
wings. With both companies the accent
is on “coarse” or industrial counts and
weaves, and subsidiary processes such as
dyeing, preshrinking, etc., together with
rayon-spinning and weaving, also form
an important part of activities.
Like its rival, Davies, Coop and Co.,
has an unblemished record as far as
keeping faith with its backers is con-
cerned :
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary serves, serves. 1 *
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
Profit sale land, £55,000 .. .. 1,285,164
From tax reserve, £50,216 .. .. 1,335,380
Added intangibles, £221 . . . . 1,335,150
1954- 18,000 16i=248,027 71,999 1,407,158
Assets revalued, £1,196,397 .. .. 2,603,555
Less addition intangibles, £213 .. 2,603,342
1955- 18,000 15 =263,719 91,994 2,695,336
Tax overprovided, £BOOO .. .. 2,703,336
Provision long-service leave
(accumulated), £28,753 .. 2,674,583
Profit sale freehold, £14,183 .. .. 2,688,766
1956- 18,000 15 =335,186 100,728 2,789,494
Share premiums, £37,500 .. .. 2,826,994
Added intangibles, £25,000 ... .. 2,801,994
1957- 18,000 15 =340,811 121,089 2,923,083
Freeholds revalued, £678,023 .. 3,601,106
Tax overprovided, £31,251 .. .. 3,632,357
Provision long-service leave (accumu-
lated), £12,050 3,620,307
Unexplained addition, £32,267 ..3,652,574
1958- 18,000 15 =340,811 204,566 3,857,140
* After deducting intangibles, £47,316, at June 30,
1958.
These figures look quite open, and no
challenge can be raised against the
£295,000 (down £12,500) tax-provision or
the £176,782 (up £25,685) for deprecia-
tion which were deducted before the
net profit of £563,377 (£479,900 in 1957)
was struck. Payment of 6 p.c. to the
prefs. left the earning-rate on average
ordinary capital at 24 p.c. The rate over
the previous five years had averaged
around 20 p.c., with little deviation.
And finally, regarding the fading
Japanese trade-bogy, the chairman is
“pleased to report that there has been
little effect on our activities, and in view
of the Government’s assurance in this
regard, it appears most unlikely that
there should be any.”
Lane’s Holdings, Ltd.
OHAREMARKET interest in Lane’s Hold-
ings, Ltd., has been stimulated lately
by the announcement of a three-for-seven
issue of ss. shares at a premium of Is.
3d. a share, opening on November 13.
The co. has been notably progressive. It
is engaged in the manufacture and distri-»
bution of sprays, chemicals for agricul-
tural and pastoral purposes, hormone
weedicides, disinfectants and cleaners.
Through branches and subsidiaries it


G. H. PARTRIDGE & CO.
1,. D. PARTRIDGE, A. O. HANSON
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
113 Pitt Street, Sydney Telephone: M, 5031-3
Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
B. H. ALLEN
P. K. LEVY
M. R. L. BOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
has distribution throughout Australia.
Other pastoral and agricultural chemicals
manufactured or distributed include
benzene - hexachloride, D.D.T., lead-
arsenate, nicotine-sulphate, lime-sulphur,
spraying-oils for fruit, and Lane’s Tomato
Dust.
The business dates back to 1911 ; it
was first incorporated in 1919, and con-
verted into a public co. in 1951. The
vendors received £60,000 for the business,
all, in the end, taken out in shares —
£50,000 in ords. and £lO,OOO in prefs.
In June, 1957, manufacturing opera-
tions were transferred from the old
premises at Alexandria (Sydney) to a new
11-acre site at Bankstown; there was a
profit of £8446 on sale of the old free-
hold, and production facilities have been
greatly improved by the move.
Latest propo c, :l is to consolidate activi-
ties by the manufacture of a large range
of essential chemicals at present
imported ; to enlarge the range of pro-
ducts ; and to enter some fields of
business at present not catered for.
The present three-for-seven issue at 6s.
3d. a share will be the fourth issue since
conversion in 1951. Following conver-
sion there was a public issue of ords. at
par on a one-for-one basis. In 1954 there
was a one-for-four ord. issue at par, and
20,000 7 p.c. prefs. of £1 each were also
taken-up by the public, in 1956, ords.
in the ratio of two-for-five were taken-up
at a premium of Is. 3d.
When the present issue is completed,
paid capital will be £285,000 in a million
ords. of ss. each and 35,000 prefs. of
£1 each.
The fivefold increase in ordinary
capital since conversion seven years ago
has not, on average, slowed-down the
rate of earning-power, as the following
table of earnings and dividends shows:
Consolidated Figures.
~ : Dividends , Re- Re-
Dee.. Profit. Pref. f Ord. —serves, serves.*
(5 p.e.)
£ £ £ £ £
1952.. 107 500 124 p.c. = 12,500 4,107 3,655
Tax overprovided, £26 .. .. .. 3,081
Added reserves, £50,912 .. .. 54,593
(7 p.c.)
1953.. 29.283 626 124 p.c. = 12,500 16,157 70./50
1954.. 33.211 2612 124 „ „ 14.844 10,355 87,105
Preliminary exes, vv/oft’. £578 . . 86,527
1955.. 41.391 2450 124 p.c. = 15,625 23,316 109,843
Share premiums, £12,500 . . . . 122,343
1956.. 470 2450 124 p.c. = 20.313 18.707 141,050
Preliminary exes, vv/off, £834 .. 140,210
Profit sale freehold, £8440 . . . . 148,602
1957.. 371 2450 124 p.c. = 21,875 25.046 173.708
Preliminary exes, vv/off. £205 .. 173,505
(* Reserves subject to goodwill on consolidation,
£55,084, at 31/12/’57.)
The parent balances on December 31
and the subsidiaries to September 30;
the latter have therefore completed
another year since those figures were
arrived at. But the 1957 results are still
worth study ; the increased profit was
arrived at notwithstanding drought con-
ditions in many parts of Australia, and
though turnover increased only 1.44 p.c.,
gross profit rose 2.4 p.c. and net profit
expanded by 11.99 p.c. The increase in
net profit in those circumstances is a
tribute to the management as well as an
indication of the improved conditions
resulting from the move to Bankstown.
Last year’s earnings were equal to
26.7 p.c. on ord. capital, after allowing
for the prefs., compared with 24 p.c.,
31.2, 26.3, 28.6 and 16.6 p.c. back to
1952.
The ord. div. has been maintained at
12| p.c. for the seven years since con-
version, and more than half the profits
have been carried to reserves. Helped
by this plough-back, plus share-
premiums and capital reserves, the
accumulation of various reserves had
reached £173,505 at last balance-day, and
was then just slightly lower than the
ord. capital. Reserves are subject to
£55,084 “goodwill on consolidation,”
etc., but the demonstrated earning-
capacity of the business would suggest
that the total of all asset-values, includ-
ing intangibles, is not excessive.
An outstanding feature of the business
is its stability of earning-power in spite
of seasonal fluctuations. This should be
consolidated by the plans now in hand
for the manufacture of many basic
chemicals in Australia and the entry into
other fields akin to the main business.
Balance-sheet figures show that the co.
believes in trading as far as possible
within its own resources:
Consolidated Figures.
1955. 1956. 1957.
Prof capital .. .. £35,000 £35.000 £35,000
Ord. capital .. .. 125,000 175,000 175,000
Reserves .. .. 109,844 140,217 173,505
Overdraft .. .. 46,132 34,373 62.732
Creditors .. .. 54,007 36,174 51,050
Tax provision .. .. 22,372 27,855 28,569
Final div 9.037 12,163 12,163
£401,392 £460,782 £538,019
Freeholds .. .. 38.334 107,131 126,034
Plant 26.988 30.479 40,819
Stocks . . .. . . 159,963 142,677 171,890
Debtors . . . . 120,888 125,236 143,987
Cash, etc. . . . . . . 135 175 205
Goodwill on consolida-
tion, etc. .. . . 55.084 55,084 55,084
£401,392 £460,782 £538,019
At December 31 last, liabilities and pro-
visions were less than half the more-or-
less liquids, and were considerably less
than half of shareholders’ funds. The
tranfer of operations to Bankstown and
the establishment of warehouse premises
in other States has been responsible for
the steep rise in freeholds, but the
increase in plant has not been so notice-
able. The new manufacturing proposals
may tend to increase the size of the plant
item.
The sharemarket notes the growth
aspects of the co.’s career to date, its
capacity to maintain a remunerative rate
of profit-earning on increasing capital,
and prices the ss. shares, cum rights, at
11s. 9d. This is equivalent to 10s. ex
rights, and the rights are worth 3s. 9d. on
the same basis.
On either basis of purchase the yield
would be 6i p.c. from a 12| p.c. div.,
and the net tangible backing at last
balance-day was Bs. sd. a share.
Supertex Industries, Ltd.
'T'o paraphrase the observation ascribed
(erroneously) to Walpole, every
stock has its price. The current market
quotation of 3s. sd. for Supertex prob-
ably represents a just valuation of the
ss. scrip, which touched a “low’” of
Is. Bd. earlier in the year.
The recent dividend-history of this
initially brilliant profit-winner has been
anything but encouraging, but now that
many manufacturing and marketing
problems have been ironed-out, the
chances of improvement seem much
fairer.
Changing tastes in manchester, and
problems accruing from a too-precipitate
decentralisation, seemingly an attractive
policy in the face of the conditions of
labor-shortage which marked the early
post-war years, together with the late
switch-over to a buyer’s market, have
left Supertex rather overcapitalised in
relation to its present visible earning-
power.
The former Pacific Chenille-Craft now
has 10 years of sharemarket history
behind it, and was, indeed, founded only
in the war-years, to manufacture chenille
products such as bedspreads and dressing-
gowns. On flotation as a public com-
pany in 1948, activities were spread by
the take-over of Australian Towel Weav-
ing Mills.
Accounts for the year to June 27 show
a consolidated net profit of £48,243, com-
pared with the £19,021 returned for
1956-57, and this was the best result
since 1953:
Parent and Subsidiary.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , Dividends— N serves. serves.*
£ £.£>£>
1953.. 55,141 6 p.c. = 36,000 19,141 85,334
Julv,
1954.. 36,100 5 „ „ 30.000 0,100 91,434
Profit sale assets, £12,500 .. .. 103,934
1955.. 28,146 Nil 28,146 132,080
June,
1956.. 13,618 Nil 13,618 145,698
1957.. 19,021 3 p.c. = 18.000 1,021 146,719
Added intangibles, £4312 . . . . 142,407
1958.. 48,243 6 p.e. = 36,000 22.243 154,050
* After deducting intangibles, £58,522, at 27/6/’5B.
The group’s fortunes are, however, im-
proving faster than these figures would
indicate. Taxation deducted for the
term from a visible pre-tax profit of
£84,667 (£33,833 in 1957) was £36,424
(£14,812) and at £48,466 (£42,783),
depreciation seems to have been charged
on a generous scale, too. Supertex’s
board is apparently wielding the knife
ruthlessly in an effort to modernise plant
and rationalise production.
Stockholders have averaged only
p.c. on their investment in the six ydars
since 1953, and there were two years of
complete dearth. Supertex, however, to
its credit, has managed to keep out of
the red.
All manufacturing is now concentrated
at Goulburn, N.S.W., and the distribut-
ing centre is at Alexandria, Sydney.
Supertex is also now represented in
persona in Melbourne, where the


GENERAL MOTORS
Acceptance Corporation, Australia
(Incorporated in US.A. Limited Liability)
REGISTERED UNSECURED NOTES
Principal and Interest Unconditionally Guaranteed by
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, New York
o
PER ANNUM
2 YEARS
i%
PER ANNUM
I YEAR
4 3 A% per annum 270 to 360 days
4!4% per annum 180 to 269 days
3 3 A% per annum 90 to 179 days
3 Va% per annum 30 to 89 days
Subject to a minimum of £5OO, investments may be in multiples of £lOO and you may
nominate the exact day on which you want your Notes to mature and your money repaid.
We report that, in our opinion, as at December 31, 1957
Total paid up capital and earned surplus of General Motors Acceptance Corporation,
Australia was 2,564,011 dollars and total tangible assets were 38,241,317 dollars.
Furthermore, in our opinion, as at December 31, 1957 total Notes, Loan’s and
Debentures payable by General Motors Acceptance Corporation, New York
amounted to 3,739,369,086 dollars. Its other liabilities amounted to 384,673,533
dollars, and its total tangible assets were 4,397,874,582 dollars.
Melbourne, August 19, 1958. Signed Haskins <& Sells, Auditors.
HOW TO APPLY
For jour copy of the Prospectus and Application Form contact:
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES,
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION, AUSTRALIA
X!OS
manchester-goods specialist, Morsley and
Kemp Pty., was acquired as a base for
the group’s drive for higher sales in Vic-
toria and Tasmania.
The effect of this takeover is reflected
in the higher values for stock, up
rather steeply by £130,475 to £572,082: —-
Parent and Subsidiary.
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Reserves .. .. 199,908 200,929 213,172
Overdraft .. .. 239,969 162,916 337,573
Creditors . . .. 140,038 166,493 131,340
Tax provision .. 13,150 15,150 37,646
Final dividend ~ 18,000 18,000
£1,193,065 £1,163,488 £1,337,731
Freeholds, etc. .. 111,869 130,426 134,222
Plant .. .. 230,874 240,123 277,156
Stocks .. .. 532,280 441,612 572,087
Debtors .. .. 263,169 296,051 294,351
Cash .. .. 663 1,066 1,393
Intangibles .. 54,210 54,210 58,522
£1,193,065 £1,163,488 £1,337,731
The chief source of current funds was
a further loan of £174,657 from the bank.
Additions to productive installations
during the year cost £76,538, and, after
allowing for depreciation and disposals,
the net increase in fixed assets was
£40,829.
The diversion of current funds into
fixed investment brought the more-or-
less liquid surplus down from £376,170
to £343,272.
Reserve-building continues at a very
humble rate, and the net tangible back-
ing for each stock-unit remains at 6s. 3d.
for the third successive year.
At its present price the stock returns
a very contingent 8.8 p.c. yield, which,
of course, would be sensitive to the
slightest change, up or down, in the
present 6 p.c. div.-rate. It is definitely
not every investor’s cup of tea.
Mt. Morgan, Ltd.
A bigger throughput of higher-grade
ore from the Mt. Morgan (Q.) open-
cut cushioned, to some extent, the impact
of lower copper prices on the income of
Mt. Morgan, Ltd., last term, and the co.
did reasonably well to turn-in a net profit
approximately 34 p.c. below the sharply-
reduced figure of the previous term. The
Federal Government’s bounty and tariff
arrangements have now stabilised the
price (to Australian producers) of copper
sold for domestic use at around the
average figure received by Mt. Morgan
last term, and, with signs of a gradual
strengthening of world copper-markets,
the co. should be able to, at least, hold
the line in the current term.
To conserve the funds, the advance
removal of overburden from the upper
benches was suspended in the 1956-57
term, and, although an extra 269,474 tons


36in.
A
%
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
t Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear”- Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208.
Represented in all States. 7 elegrams: Hydelec.
AL ST KALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., Englaud.
(1,777,488 tons) was sent to
the dumps last year (the cost,
along with £19,720 previously
capitalised being charged to
working-account), the ratio of
overburden to ore mined
(881,290 tons, up 139,001 tons)
was a shade lower at 2.01 to
1:
Sulphide
Waste Ore t Assay N
June, Discarded, Treated, Gold, Copper,
Tons. Tons. l)wt. p.c.
1954. .2,878,046 824,050 3.02 0.96
1955. .2,675,298 930,500 2.14 0.87
1956. .2,512,736 829,800 1.78 0.93
1957. .1,508,014 738,300 1.60 0.81
1958.. 1,777,45 S 875,350 1.93 0.88
After working through a patch
of extremely low-grade ore in
the previous term, higher values
were encountered last year,
head grade of the 875,350 tons
(up 137,050 tons) ore milled
rising from 0.81 p.c. to 0.88
p.c. copper and I.6odwt to 1.93
dwt gold.
Production of copper in con-
centrate increased by 2112 tons
to 7579 tons and of gold by
14,6190 z. to 51,8260 z., but
overall extractions of metals
were approximately 2 p.c. lower
(61.3 p.c. gold, 88.7 p.c. copper)
due, largely, to the high (and
record) rate of throughput at
the No. 1 mill.
The outturn of blister was
also a record, 6861 tons (up
706 tons) containing 6793 tons
copper (up 714 tons), 48,8900 z.
gold (up 33450 z.) and 17,6850 z.
silver (down 43650 z.) coming
from the smelter:
, Metal Content
Blister, Copper, Gold, Silver,
Tons. Tons. Oz. 0/..
1954 .. 5474 5402 61,945 18,195
1955 .. 6765 6678 67,815 21,185
1956 .. 6688 6604 47,655 20,520
1957 .. 6155 6079 45.545 22.050
1958 . . 0801 6793 48,890 17,685
Still unable to find suitable
markets for its abundant
reserves of pyrites, the co. sold
only 8752 tons of the 14,000
tons of the sulphide produced
during the year. The Tariff
Board held an inquiry, towards
the end of last year, into the
workings of the Sulphuric Acid
Bounty Act (designed to
encourage the use of locally-
mined pyrites), but its findings
have yet to be made public.
As the value of a coiv
siderable quantity of marginal
ore is dependent on the
development of a market for
pyrites, material previously
included on account of its
sulphur-content was excluded
from a recalculation of ore
reserves made last term. As a
result of this omission, reserves
at June 29 last were down by
2,400,000 tons at 12,600,000
tons, averaging 1.08 p.c. copper,
2.sldwt. gold and approxi-
mately 15 p.c. sulphur.
The average price per ton
received for the 6166 tons of
copper sold fell by £39 to £329,
revenue from all mine-products
slipping by £140,324 to
£2,615,116. A further £4337
came in as investment and
sundry income. Shown in
total in the accounts, mining,
milling, reduction and prospec-
ting-costs amounted to £3lB 3s.
per ton of blister-copper pro-
duced, compared with £343 2s.
per ton in the preceding
term:
Ord.
Jne., Income. Exes.f Profit. Div.*
£ £ £ 80 p.c
’5l 1,099,045 1,329,238 370,707 280,000
20 p.c.
’52 2,453,023 2,007,445 385,578 280,000
’53 2,058,043 2,210,017 448,026 280,000
’54 2,738,837 2,298,192 440,645 280,000
25 p.c.
’55 8,295,104 2,610,784 684,320 300,000
20 p.c.
’56 3,410,342 2,828,809 681,533 280,000
15 p.c.
’57 2,756,990 2.301,941 395,049 210,000
10 p.c.
’5B 2,619,453 2,359,082 259,771 140,000
* Prefs. received 7 p.c. p.a. in addition,
t Includes depreciation and taxation, etc.
Administrative and general
expenses (£72,668) increased by
£18,592, but there was no write-
off for obsolete plant and no
provision was made for royal-
ties (£62,771 and £ll,OOO, res-
pectively, in the preceding
term), an unchanged £lOO,OOO
provision for depreciation leav-
ing net profit £135,278 smaller
at £259,771.
The div.-rate, cut from 20
p.c. to 15 p.c. in 1957, was
reduced to 10 p.c., the profit
representing Is. 44d. a (10s.)
share after covering the pref.
div.
Paid capital, £2,400,000, is in
2,800,000 f.-p. 10s. ords. and
2,000,000 10s. 7 p.c. prefs., the
latter redeemable over the 10
years to 1972 or convertible
into ords. in 1960 in the ratio
of two ords. for every three
prefs.
At June 30 last, current
assets, including metal stocks,
£854,294, and stores, £594,666,
totalled £1,840,802, exceeding
current liabilities and the ord.
div. (since paid) by £1,068,607.
Bounty - payments are
intended to give copper-pro-
ducers a local price of £330 per
ton of copper, subject to profit-
limitations, so that last month's
increase of £3 a ton and an
increase of £5 a ton in August
won’t have much immediate
effect on the earnings of Mt.
Morgan and the other major
producers working low-grade
ore, Mt. Lyell. However, the
upward movement in world
prices has been sustained in
recent weeks, and the general
outlook is far more encourag-
ing than it was a year ago.
Shell Joins Wapet in W.A.
are at an
advanced stage for Royal
Dutch-Shell to acquire a 28.57
p.c. interest in West Australian
Petroleum Pty., Ltd., it was
announced by managing-direc-
tor J. N. Kirby, of Wapet, last
week.
The relative holdings of
California Asiatic OiJ Co.
(wholly-owned subsidiary of
Standard Oil Co. of Calif.) and
Texaco Overseas Petroleum Co.
will drop from 40 p.c. each to
28.57 p.c. each, and the hold-
ing of Ampol Exploration will,
relatively, come down from
20 p.c. to 14.28 p.c. The three
biggest shareholders will each
have a two-sevenths interest,,
with Ampol Ex. owning one-
seventh.
Royal Dutch-Shell, under the
arrangement, will provide
enough capital to keep drilling
and exploration operations
going for the next 18 months.
Presumably the other part-
ners in the venture, including
Ampol, will not be required to
find any further capital in that
period. Expenditure by Wapet
in the search for oil in W.A. has
already run into £14.5 million,
and 58 wells have been drilled.
Rough Range No. 1 was
spudded-in on September 5,
1953, and the Birdrong sand
was struck at. 3605 ft. in
December, showing a limited,
non - commercial oil -po o 1.
Since then another 200,000 ft. of
holes have been drilled, but
without encountering any
further oil. Cape Range No. 2
well went to 15,160 ft. and is the
deepest well drilled anywhere
in the Southern Hemisphere.
The coming-in of Shell has
been welcomed by the share-
market, and the price of Ampol
Exploration shares has firmed
from around 6s. earlier this
year to 11s. (after 135.) last
week.
United Provisions, Ltd.
A new issue of 237,500 £1
ord. shares by United Pro-
visions, Ltd., in the ratio of
one for four ords. now held,
will be the first issue of shares
to be made by the co. since it
amalgamated the businesses of
J. C. Hutton Pty., Ltd., and
Foggitt Jones Pty., Ltd., in
1927.
Last year’s net trading results
(the best for over 30 years)
were equal to 20.5 p.c. on ord.
capital, after allowing for the
8 p.c. pref. div., and the ord.
div. was lifted to 10 p.c., the
highest rate since the amalga-
mation. For the preceding
three years the rate had been
8 p.c.
Prior to that the co. had
a checkered career. But after
31 years in double-harness the
two ham-and-bacon, cheese,
canned-food and smallgoods
businesses appear to have
settled-down to a more stable
basis of profit-earning.
Paid capital has stood at
£1,400,000 (950,000 £1 ords.,
450,000 £1 8 p.c. prefs.) since
1927. After the present issue
it will rise to £1,637,500.
The new issue is payable in
full on application, and has
been underwritten by J. B.
Were and Son. The old shares
have recently been around 255.


Meetings
PERMANENT TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF NEW SOUTH
WALES LIMITED.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
THE SEVENTY-FIRST
ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING
OF SHAREHOLDERS
will l>e held at the Company’s
Offices, 23-25 O’Connell Street.
Svdnev, on
TUESDAY, 11th NOVEMBER, IfsB,
at 2.15 p.m.
BUSINESS
To receive the Directors' Report
and Balar.ee Sheet to 30th Sep-
tember, 1958.
To declare a dividend.
To elect two Directors. Dr. George
Moncrieff Barron and Mr. Frede-
rick Bowman Fleming retire in
accordance with the Articles ot
Association, but are eligible and
offer themselves for re-election.
To appoint Auditors and fix their
remuneration. Messrs. Yarwood,
Vane and Co.. Chartered Account-
ants (Aust.). the retiring Auditors,
are eligible for re-appointment and
offer themselves accordingly.
To consider any other business of
which due notice shall have been
given.
By Order of the Board.
F. R. GARLAND, Manager.
28th October, 1958.
start the dau right!
m
uuOl»* c
FA.
S cV6M|!
TWENTY YEARS OF PLAYFORD
a hurried glimpse at its
resources, South Australia,
until recently, has always
looked about as unpromising,
on the whole, as any area in
the Commonwealth.
Its early history had been so
vigorous and inspiring that it
developed too much body for
its underpinnings by the time it
was 60 years old, when its
economy seemed likely to dis-
solve in a welter of bank-
ruptcies. From 1885 onward it
knew about every vicissitude
that a colony with very limited
resources and a chancy climate
could suffer 10 years of
drought, during which other
colonies leaped continually
ahead of it, and its Govern-
ments were more famous for
their expedients in dealing with
public penury and private
failures than for development.
There was a period when
emigration to other States was
going on at the rate of 7000 a
year, with few new immigrants
coming in, and its ciedit for
railways and development
exhausted in England, forcing
the colony to become the
pioneer in income-taxation and
the taxation of unimproved
land because excise sources on
which other colonies managed
was, among a population which
had almost literally become
croweaters, as dry as the creeks.
The population of South
Australia grew from 300,000 in
1883 to only 400,000 in 1910.
The sheep population, which
had reached 7,000,000 in 1890,
was reduced by drought,
dingoes, rabbits and flagging
markets to 3,500,000 in 1914.
Only the advent of the B.H.P.
and the demand for iron-ore
and copper from Moonta lifted
S.A. out of another great
depression at that stage just
when it had sunk into “the con-
servatism of a semi-desert
State.”
It is striking, in the light of
the condition of affairs today,
that in the 30 years after 1884
only 2,500,000 acres of Crown
land had been sold. The period
when a game attempt to estab-
lish secondary industry seemed
to be succeeding in bringing a
little prosperity was brought to
an end by another great
drought and the onset of World
War I.
South Australia in 1915
showed the lowest assessable
income per head of population
in the Commonwealth —£93
and deficits in annual Budgets
began to pile-up. In 1926 there
were 100,000 income-taxpayers,
seven-tenths on incomes of
under £2OO a year, and there
were only 53 incomes in the
State of more than £5OOO p.a.
Even at that, worse was yet to
come.
The agricultural-production
value of £ls| million in 1927,
small enough in all conscience,
was £8 million in 1931 ; the
annual wool value fell in the
four years from £7.3 million to
£2.7 million. In spite of an
annual migration of 2000
workers a year to the eastern
States, 23.8 per cent, of all
wage-earners were still unem-
ployed in 1933.
This was the nadir. In 1935
a new prophet little known in
. history, J. W. Wainwright, the
Auditor-General, arose carry-
ing the fiery cross of secondary
industry. Credit belongs to
Sir Richard Butler and the
Chamber of Manufacturers for
a vigorous beginning, but it
needed the advent of Thomas
Playford, exactly 20 years ago
come Guy Fawkes Day, to start
South Australia on an amazing
industrial career in which it has
relatively outdistanced all other
States in progress.
The population has gone well
on the way to doubling in the
two decades of Playford's reign,
and is reaching out for 900,000.
Only 25 per cent, live in rural
districts. The Economic Indi-
cators printed in the Common-
wealth Grants Commission
reports showed a ninefold
advance (against the base of
1936-39) up to 1955. S.A. beat
every other State in multiplica-
tion of values of agricultural
produce, factory-production,
savings-bank deposits, whole-
sale trade (volume) and motor-
registrations and made level-
pegging in increases of personal
income per capita with N.S.W.
and Victoria.
Recently the story of this
progress was put into a book
of 41 chapters prepared as a
study by a committee headed
by Dr. R. J. Best for the Aus-
tralian and N.Z. Association
for the Advancement of
Science, which held its last
conference in Adelaide. The
book was published by the
association and the Melbourne
University Press a month or so
ago.
It is the best practical text-
book on how to develop Aus-
tralia that has been written
Somebody should send copies
to the Premiers of some other
States, especially those with
mendicant outlooks and
muddled Marxian theories and
susceptibility to election-period
blackmail.
MERTON HALL DISCORD
[From “C.S.”]
A/Telbourne has for some
weeks been suffering the
tragic disintegration of Merton
Hall, the Church of England
Girls’ Grammar School (on all
counts one of the most superior
in the nation), without one
really effective move having
been made publicly to heal the
breach between the new Eng-
lish headmistress and the large
section of the staff who have
resigned or been dismissed—
until last week’s parents’ meet-
ing, which was delayed overlong
and then mishandled.
The impotence of all con-
cerned was characterised by the
comment of Archbishop
Woods, the titular head of the
school board, that the staff
should not be permitted to dis-
miss the headmistress (by mass-
resignation) ; and although this
is a nice debating-point, it was
of little value in getting the
protagonists in the dispute to a
round-table where it must end,
if the school is not to be
crippled for a decade at least.
The wretched point was
reached last week where the
teachers, the parents, groups of
past students and others were
seeking space in the newspapers
to air their views, all of which
were likely, although not neces-
sarily so calculated, to widen
the split; but fortunately the
dailies treated the subject with
some dignity and a little sadly,
as it deserved, although they
had sought out the news
originally when the school
board endeavored to suppress
it.
The attitude of the press was
correct (almost admirable), for
once, but the radio and one
TV-station thought the school’s
misfortune very funny, and
Merton Hall figures were lam-
pooned on television by male
comedians.
The archbishop was right
on the beam when he told the
1000-strong meeting of parents
that though he believed justice
had been done, quite clearly
there would not have been all
the ructions if it had been seen
to be done.
He undertook to take this
up with the school council,
admitting that he and the
council had not been free from
mistakes. This was a most
generous attitude, although it
had been so long in being
displayed ; but unfortunately
the meeting was then closed
without the parents being
heard.
Justice again seemed not to
have been done.


Descent of a Dove
By DAVID CAMPBELL
“Put her back,” said Elsie.
'T'HIS story draws to a close a series of stories with
something of the texture of a novel which is to
he published soon by Angus and Robertson.
Elsie, the Grahams’ maid, has
been married-off to Bob after dis-
covery of her affair with one of
the Grahams’ j acker oos, Mr.
Blake. Her first child was not
Bob’s; but the newborn Kevin,
around whose christening this
story revolves, is the resolution of
her husband’s anger.
In another previous story there
was a delicate shadow of involve-
ment between Mrs. Graham and
the station-overseer, Mr. Marshall,
which was lightened by the
marriage of Marshall to Frosty,
the governess this should
explain certain remarks by Frosty
in the present story, and her
reluctance to visit the Grahams.
I.
Before the christening,
everyone seemed more
concerned about the
Marshalls and whether
they would arrive in time than
with Bob and Elsie who had
had the baby. Even while they
were arranging the chairs in
rows on the lawn under the
orange-tree, Mrs. Graham
kept saying, “I’m so glad the
Marshalls are coming. Frosty
wouldn’t miss it for the world.”
It was strange to hear them
called The Marshalls, for the
governess and overseer had
only been married two weeks
before. They had driven off
in a brand-new car, with one
of Billy’s old boots skipping
behind, on a honeymoon with
Marshall’s relations in the
north. But they would be back
for the christening, for Mr.
Marshall was one of the god-
fathers. The other was Sol
Jones.
“I think we’ll have the table
here, Sol,” Mrs. Graham said.
“I do hope they’re on time.”
And she spread a white cloth
over the table and arranged a
vase of daffodils in one corner.
“Very fetching,” Sol said,
smoothing the cloth with his
blackened hands. “Parson
won’t know what’s hit him.”
“But the font!” said Janet.
“What are we going to do for
a font?”
Their mother’s hands paused
amongst the daffodils, and Billy
said quickly so as not to be
done out of his joke, “What
about the bird-bath?”
“The very thing!”
Mrs. Graham’s fair face lit
with pleasure and she bent
down and kissed her clever
son.
“The very thing! I’d
thought of a china hand-basin,
but the bird-bath is made for
it.”
“But Mum!” said Janet,
frowning at Billy. “A bird-
bath ! ”
“Don’t worry, Janet,” Mrs.
Graham said with conviction.
“I’m sure God wouldn’t mind.
In fact,” and her brown eyes
lightened, “I couldn’t think of
anything more appropriate.
I've always thought of the
Spirit as a bird.”
So it was decided on, and
Billy, delighted, helped Sol
carry the heavy stone pedestal
with its flat, crowning bowl
across the lawn.
“Easy does it!” cried Sol.
“You’ve shipped the whole
trough-full down the front of
my strides.”
“I didn’t do it,” said Billy,
for indeed Sol seemed to be
staggering more than was
necessary.
“Wouldn’t like to be this


Ruth In the
future
0
Whenever a flicker comes upon a screen —and
it sometimes does in the clearest of pictures—it
is a mistake to let it mar our vision of the
picture itself. ✓
So. in terms Australian, I believe it would be
altogether wrong to allow some fluctuation in
market prices, or some check to our outlets for
export, to distort our full perspective of the
national scene.
Faith in Australia means faith in everything
we have, and everything we are. And there has
never been a time when we should have more
reason to be confident of the future than now.
Look at the picture of the past ten years. New
industries have grown up. Established industries
have been extended. Our factories are producing
two-and-a-half times the volume, and eight times
the value, of pre-war years. They employ nearly
one-third of the total work force, and contribute
about one-third of the national income.
To our primary industries—which are and. I
believe, will remain our main economic strength—
is now added the spectacular progress in mining.
Mineral production has risen by more than
sixty per cent., and the value of mineral output has
multiplied three-and-a-half times, in the past
ten years.
The monetary returns must be related to current
values, then and now. But allowing for that, the
rise in the volume of production is clear. And
Australia’s real greatness as a mineral producer has
scarcely begun. The enormous bauxite deposits in
Northern Australia are one example of that.
Early in 1959, when we pass the ten million
mark in population, there will be four persons in
Australia for every three recorded at the national
census of 1947.
That in itself is human proof of ten years’
progress in a continent that is too vast and varied
to allow any passing changes to deflect us from
our purpose: a continent which has a people’s
deeper Faith in fund for the future, if we ourselves
will only draw courageously upon it.
baby,” he said. “Bit early yet
for duckings. Well, I expect
I’d best get into something
dry.”
“No, no,” cried Mrs.
Graham. “You’ve been to
your room quite enough, Sol.
No more for today. Remember
you’re a godfather—and do
stop complaining, Janet. God’s
far easier to please than some
people. Remember, Jesus was
born in a manger . . . Oh, dear,
look at the time. The Mar-
shalls will be here. I must go
and change.”
“So must I,” said Sol as soon
as the wire-door banged.
“You may think you’re
smart,” said Janet, darkly. “But
wait till the heavens open.
Then you'll see.”
With a half-smile for Janet's
benefit, Billy strolled off up the
garden-path between the flower-
ing mays to listen for the
Marshalis.
11.
And after all the worry, the
Marshalls were the first to
arrive. Watching from the ivy,
Billy thought that Frosty was
having one of her bad days, for
she told Mr. Marshall where
to park the car—not nearly so
new now under the dust—and
to put his hat on straight, in
just the voice she used when
Janet turned - up late for
lessons ; but when she saw
Mrs. Graham coming up the
path to meet them she gave a
little cry and ran to her.
“Oh, dear,” she laughed. “It
is nice to see you. We’ve had
such a time! But it is nice to
be back.” And she kissed Mrs.
Graham on both cheeks and
burst into tears.
“Frosty,” cried Mrs. Graham
warmly. “Huw good to have
you back.” She was touched.
“Oh, I am an old fool.”
laughed Frosty, blowing into
her handkerchief. “We’ve
really had the greatest fun.
But seeing you . . .” And her
face wrinkled once again into
tears.
“And Mr. Marshall,” said
Mrs. Graham, taking his hand.
“No need to ask if you enjoyed
yourselves. You both look
splendid.”
“Bit too much travelling for
Lois.” Marshall shook his
head. “And all new people . . .”
“Nothing of the sort,
Charles. A most interesting
trip.”
The tears were over. Frosty
tucked the wet handkerchief
down her front.
But her welcome was so affec-
ting that Mrs. Graham led her
away by the arm to pick her
some flowers, leaving the men
together on the veranda.
“And the country up north,”
Colonel Graham said. “How’s
it looking?”
“Not so good.” Marshall
spread his legs, relaxing in his
chair. “Not so good at all.
Not a patch on here.”
“And really, Charles’s
uncle!” Frosty was saying in
the garden. “That's the
Bredanbone Marshalls. I wish
you could see their garden!
Acres of it, all watered by
turning the one point. Pip,
and there you are, a hundred
fountains! No water-problem
there! But then Bredanbone’s
on those rich Bredanbone flats.
They’re so lucky.”
“I’m afraid there isn’t a great
deal out yet,” Mrs. Graham
said, snipping. “Violets, prim-
roses, hyacinths, little things
mostly. But these daffodils are
quite sweet.”
“Lovely!” Frosty buried her
pose in yellow. “Of course the
season here is much later than
at Bredanbone . . . Oh, there
you are, Billy. I was just telling
your mother . . And she
told him, too.
But what had happened to
their governess? She talked so
much. Perhaps if no one inter-
rupted her, she would run
down finally like the clock in
the hall. That must be what his
mother was doing, for she
snipped away in silence,
nodding and smiling, but with
her little headachy frown be-
tween her eyes and her lashes
drooped.
“I really think it’s time to be
getting back,” she said.
“They’ll be arriving.”
“But I must tell you. I was
telling Charles and his uncle
CO by the time they got
through the orchard and
its flowering trees nearly every-
body was gathered on the
veranda, the men holding their
hats against their blue suits as
if afraid of losing them, the
women gossiping more easily
around the pram.
It was the old pram they all
had been wheeled in, but done
up like new in a new coat of
lacquer ; and when she saw it,
and Elsie standing dumb in the
group of women, Mrs. Graham
began to run, burdened by the
basket full of flowers and hold-
ing on to her new straw hat
with the other hand.
“Oh, Elsie,” she cried. “I’m
sorry. I don’t know what
could have happened to the
time. By goodness, hasn’t
Dorothy grown! But Kevin’s
my favorite —and looking his


Established 1808
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
osin
livan
PTYLTD
'ffts
ARK
TRAOE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating:
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
73 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
very best for his christening,
and just like his father!”
Bob by the wall blushed at
his boots, and Elsie said
proudly, “And an appetite just
like him, too. I can hardly keep
it up to him.”
“Put her on the lucerne-
flats, Bob,” cried Sol, and there
were cries of “Easy,” and sup-
pressed laughter. Mrs. Graham
moved away to greet the others.
Frosty took one - year - old
Dorothy from the pram.
“This is the little thing I
want to see,” she said. “Ooh,
we are fair! We must get that
from our mother.”
“Put her back,” said Elsie.
During the uneasy chatter
that followed, Mrs. Marshall
could be heard saying to her
husband, “Charles, has any-
one heard of Mr. Blake since
he left so hurriedly? Two
years ago, it must be. How
time flies!”
“Oh, and Elsie,” Mrs.
Graham said, turning. “I
almost forgot. I picked these
flowers for you.”
And she took the sheaf of
daffodils from her basket and
laid them down in the broad
pram between the two babies.
“There, that must be Mr.
Smythe.”
The coughing of the parson's
car sounded from among the
elms.
m.
Billy remembered
'' most about the service
was his mother in her flowered
hat standing by Mr. Marshall
under the orange-tree. Mr.
Smythe droned like a winter
bee, lifting his eyes to the sky
and lowering them to the
prayer-book. Elsie, round as
the tree, stood by the bird-
bath, the baby and sheaf of
daffodils caught-up in her arms.
She kept looking up at Bob
and back at the women, a little
smile of scorn and triumph
“Half those lies they tell about me aren't true!”
on her lips. Sol balanced to
the left of Marshall.
Janet kept catching Billy’s
eye and looking at Sol, and
Billy had to think very hard of
sin and death to stop himself
from laughing. There were the
flies he had slammed in his
father’s ledger, the horns he
had snipped from the snail
with his mother’s mending-
scissors. But when Mr. Smythe
asked if they renbunced the
pomp and glory of this world
and Sol replied in a voice of
thick conviction, “I renounce
them all! ” it was too much for
him.
The laughter, corked at his
mouth, snorted out his nose ;
and he was alone, shaking, m
his small world of agony, with
pink ears. But his mother
turned and smiled with such a
grace of warmth and
encouragement that the ten-
sion of fear and laughter left
him, and he was able to
unbutton his coat and keep his
eye on the bird-bath just in
case the dove came down.
When his mother read that
part, sitting on the lawn or
around the fire on Sundays,
Billy always thought of the
Jordan as just like their own
creek, flowing over its sharp
sand under the willows; and
he saw the sandpipers and
Jesus wading up to his knees
and the clouds coming over
Bald Hill and the dove des-
cending. And the voice of
God was like his father’s voice
talking long-distance on the
telephone at night.
“That you, George? God
here.”
But nothing much happened
today. Mr. Smythe scooped
some water from the bird-bath
and spilt it on Kevin’s head
and made the sign of the Cross
with water on Kevin’s fore-
head. And instead of crying,
Kevin opened his mouth and
looked about, showing all his
gummy jaws. Perhaps that was
the miracle, for there was a
murmuring amongst the
women ; and Elsie seemed to
think it was, anyway,, because
she beamed and nodded and
kept kissing Kevin when he
was given back to her.
“That’ll show that old tart,
Miss Frost,” she said after-
wards.
But when it was all over,
Mr. Smythe kept them there
getting cold while he took the
opportunity. He wanted to
thank the Grahams, for he
always liked . . . There were
some new faces . . . And he
hoped . . . And he went on to
talk about miracles, his
earnest, shortsighted gaze
searching the mist’ng orchard
as if God walked there some-
where, plain to be seen, if only
his eyes were better.
But what he said was
different. He said that miracles
had a perfectly down-to-earth,
scientific explanation if only
they were looked at steadily
with clear eyes. For example,
the descent of the dove at
Christ’s baptism was nothing
but a metaphorical turn of
phrase such as all poets used.
The dove did not descend.
What was important was the
meaning behind the words, the
descent of the Spirit. We must
live in our century.
Billy looked sideways at
Janet, because, if there was no
dove, perhaps Jesus hadn’t
stood in their creek with the
clouds coming over. But Janet
was shifting about in her chair
like everyone else, and their
father coughed more loudly;
and Mr. Smythe, dropping his
eyes from the shadowy garden,
gathered up his books.
“But perhaps we need more


Between
Ourselves
'.lit
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she alwavs
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
If the Pressure
of Your Job
Gets You Down
Seven major causes of tension
in business including WIFE
TROUBLE are described in
November Reader’s Digest.
These tips for relief given
by top advisers, ranging from
company presidents to the
Mayo Clinic will help you
hold your job, keep your wor-
ries and your success
under control.
Enjoy this stimulating article
just one of the 35 includ-
ing New Light on How the Mind
Works, Celebrated ’ Scamp and
Tired Tires Can Kill You —in
the November Reader’s Digest.
Get your copy at any news-
agent today. Only 2/-.
time,” he said. “The service is
over.”
'T'heir father rose.
“Very interesting,” he
said. “There was the changing
of the water into wine. I've
always thought . . .”
And he led Mr. Smythe away
towards the veranda, where
the decanter stood among
glasses.
The women gathered
around Kevin.
“Don’t know about you,”
Sol said, “but there’s grog on.
My tongue’s like a lizard.”
IV.
After nearly everyone had
gone—Elsie smiling and
blushing, saying, “Oh, ho, don’t
you believe it! He’s not always
like that!” and Bob thanking
his toes, and Sol protesting,
“But, by the living Lord, I must
shift them chairs in before
lights-out!” they stood
around, exhausted and smiling,
except Frosty, who wanted to
tell Colonel Graham about her
trip.
“A hundred sprinklers,” she
said, “likeiittle fairy fountains!
I wish you could see them.”
“I don’t know about the
fairies, but I can see the
expense.”
“I was wondering,” Marshall
said on the side, “if you might
have a few bulbs for our gar-
den?”
“Come along!” cried Mrs.
Graham. “There's still light
enough. I’ll dig you some.”
But Frosty was too absorbed
to see them go, talking of
Bredanbone and the Country
Women’s.
“That’s what we need here,”
she said. “A really strong
branch. We’re too taken-up
with flower-shows. Now if I
had my way . . . but Charles
won’t push, he has no spirit.”
Graham did not seem to be
listening, his eyes lost in dark-
ness beyond the ghostly trees.
From the garden came the rise
and fall of voices, the cry of a
bird.
“Well, well,” he said, turn-
ing wearily, “so there was no
dove after all.”
“No dove? Oh, yes, I quite
agree. We’ve got to be prac-
tical these days.”
And then she noticed, too,
that the others had gone, and
for a time she was silent. But
not for long.
“Whatever could have
happened to Charles?” she
cried. “We should have been
home hours ago. There are my
new hens. But it’s just like
him.”
And she began calling,
“Charles! Charles!” her voice
rising and rising in the misty
evening amongst the owls.
“Charles, at once!”
“Coming! ”
Laughing, Marshall and Mrs.
Graham came up the path.
“No, no,” she was saying.
“You most certainly do not
chop the tops off. You let the
good soak back into the bulb,
and then they fall off.”
“Charles!” cried Frosty.
“I’ve been so worried. It’s
late. You’re so inconsiderate.”
“But Lois, we've been dig-
ging . . ”
“N onsens e,” she said
harshly. “You don’t care a rap
for flowers.”
Tt was a hurried departure.
Mrs. Graham said she
hoped they’d be comfortable
in their new cottage and if there
was anything . . . And Frosty
thanked her and said she
expected that she’d manage.
“At all events, come over
soon to lunch,” called Mrs.
Graham after the dusty car.
But she was crestfallen and
agitated until her husband took
her arm and walked her slowly
down the path towards the
square lights of the house.
“She won’t come,” he said.
“That’s a certainty,” And he
sighed. “But what 1 am pleased
about is Bob and Elsie. I think
I may say I had a hand in that.”
“Oh, Andrew,” his wife
laughed, “you don’t think I
encouraged the‘other?”
“Well, perhaps not,” said
Graham, smiling and pressing
her arm. “I think, though, 1
might allow myself another
whisky tonight. Sherry for
you?”
And he was right; the Mar-
shalls came seldom. Sometimes
the children walked over, but
Frosty talked so much that
Janet was sick in the creek
coming home. So they visited
Elsie more often instead. The
only way Billy could ever
explain the difference between
them was that the dove had des-
cended on the one and not on
the other._
The Hollidays
BY Middy
“Pardon me, sir—do you mind if I play through ?”


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
inter-office stature, aggrandise-
ment ; nay, even omnipotence.
True, there is a cloud no
bigger than a man’s hand on
the horizon —but the odds are
o.k. because there’s only one
Bland Committee, thank the
Lord, and scores of depart-
ments and instrumentalities for
it to get round before it
reaches us!
'T'he world of the public
servant is not so much the
world of the university
graduate these days. Apart
from a gradually growing
antipathy towards higher
academic qualifications, there is
hardly a premium on initiative
and imagination, anyway—the
emphasis is rather on the desk-
man (or the “administrator,”
to use the jargon), preferably
with training in Accountancy
and in such mysterious things as
Organisation and Establishment
procedures—the man who can
handle the paper-work, follow
the routine and Play the Game
as It Should Be Played.
The Game? Conferences (at
which little that is constructive
takes shape); Minutes (which
imposingly worded cloak that
fact); Interviews (of due
solemnity); Telephone Calls
(of impressive—and expensive
—duration: “Melbourne on the
line, sir”), and all the rest of it.
One never rings one’s oppo-
site-number, one gets one’s
secretary to do that. “One
moment, sir Mr. Smith
calling!”
Tt is the Day of the Desk-
-*■ man:
His heart was at his office, his
heart Was always there
A-docketingr the papers and minut-
ing; with care.
But some of them must work
hard, you say. Why, there are
ulcers, coronary occlusions and
blood-pressures all over the
Service. Some have even died
in harness.
Well, now take turtles.
Medical-men, it seems, are
interested in turtles’ blood
because turtles don’t suffer
from arteriosclerosis in old-age.
Maybe turtle-blood has some
special resistant property, the
doctors think. It could be.
But the turtle’s blood-vessels
may stay in nice shape because
of the way turtles conduct their
lives.
Turtles don’t think, talk and
have their being in office “shop”
from morning to night. Turtles
never use the word “imple-
mentation” or the phrases “in
the last analysis” and “with
regard to the situation.” No
turtle ever rang another turtle
back on the phone or chewed
his shell day after day in
anxiety as to whether he would
become Head of the Turtle
Pool. So a turtle’s arteries
probably keep softer because
of it.
'The “new man on the staff”
routine is rewarding to
observe, for there you see it
all.
First he must go through the
ignominious process of justify-
ing his presence. Like the
silver dollar, he goes from
hand to hand ; from oifice-boy
to secretary, to section-head, to
secretary, to departmental-head.
Eventually his predecessor-to-
be will probably be assigned
to take him on a tour of
introduction —maybe a dozen
officers each with a face and a
name to be memorised, a hand
to be shaken, the polite ex-
changes and the covert sizings-
up.
The social situation will be
complicated because the other
members of the department
didn’t know about the change,
so as well as the conventional
welcomes there will be that
fascinating and intimate ex-
change of gossip between the
older colleagues with the
customary exaggerations to
impress the newcomer.
“New, eh? Well, you’ll have
a lot to learn! ”
“Work? Well, you’ll know
what work’s all about here! ”
The introductions over,
comes the Ritual File Glance.
“Better familiarise yourself
first,” and the ragged mass is
set before him.
The newchum is appalled,
even terrified, by the bulk of
it all. After an hour or two,
fatigue and boredom lead him
to search only for the red ink
of “The Master’s” comments,
and the marginal facetiae of
senior officials.
Not long afterwards he is
asked what he thinks of his
reading. He is bewildered by
the accumulated details of
bureaucratic argument; by the
decisive opinions of his
superiors. Surely his own raw
judgment is of little moment —
what he wants is some ground-
ing in the guiding principles of
what his work is to be. But
no one explains that. It is
taken for granted his mind will
fall naturally into the depart-
mental mould —that he will
take item by item the business
that comes his way, turning it
to this light and that, and blow-
ing it up to accepted dimen-
sions before dealing with it.
IVTot long then, and the new-
comer is drafting and
dictating his first letters ; giving
his first pompous and equivocal
answers on the telephone, dis-
cussing administrative problems
as with years (not days) of
Government experience behind
him.
He has slipped into the Twin
Pits as easily and unknowingly
as those before him. The ex-
hilaration of this play-acting ob-
scures for the moment the fact
that personality matters noth-
ing ; the intellectual stimulus of
a multitude of petty problems
hides the narrowness of mental
horizon and brings the delu-
sion that the mind is being
called on for use.
Facile descensus Averno. In
a couple of months the strange
conventions will have become
second-nature. The restriction
of the reasoning will seem to
be common sense ; the curious
camaraderie of men on the
same job will be taken as a
natural form of personal rela-
tions, and, most diabolical of
all, the style of public-service
journalese will be interpreted
as clarity itself.
public servant ever writes
a note —it is a “memor-
andum” (tell it not in Gath,
but “aide-memoire' is creeping
into the parlance, too).
He deals with points “seri-
atim.” In some departments
custom has it that the opening
gambit must be: “Adverting
to your memorandum of such
and such a date.”
He is unwilling to venture
outside a small vocabulary of
shapeless bundles of uncertain
content —words like “position,”
“arise,” “involve,” “in connec-
tion with” and “factor.”
He prefers to say: “With
reference to your claim I have
to advise you that before same
is dealt with”—than: “Before
I can deal with your claim.”
He says “predecease” for “die
before”; “it is apprehended”
for “I suppose,” and always
“perusal” for “reading.”
He likes to manufacture
verbs (like “familiarise”) and
make up opposites (like “dis-
economy” and “de-restrict”);
to indulge recklessly in the
“not-un” habit (“not unjusti-
fiably” ; “not unnaturally”),
and to shilly-shally hopelessly
in the belief that two or three
words must be better than one.
“In transmitting this matter to
the conference, the Director
feels that it may be of assistance
to the members to apprise them-
selves of the fact that, as at
present advised, he is inclined
to the view that, in existing
circumstances, there is, prima
facie, a case for ”
if he wanted to, he
couldn’t stop using the
Unnecessary Adjective (the
acute crisis, the grave emerg-
ency —although what will be
left for these unfortunate words
to do by themselves never
enters his head); the Super-
fluous Adverb (definitely harm-
ful, literally exhausted); and,
most of all, abstract words by
the bushel.
He wouldn’t understand why
Sir Winston Churchill did not
begin his broadcast on June 17,
1940: “The position in regard
to France is extremely serious,”
but simply said: “The news
from France is very bad.” Nor
did Sir Winston end by saying:
“We have absolute confidence
that eventually the situation will
be restored” —rather: “We are
sure that in the end all will
come right.”
Perhaps it will, but only if
the modern official takes his
cue from his counterparts of
centuries ago, when a Minister
of France could write a senior
civil servant:
Apollonius to Zeno, greeting.
You did right to send the chick-
peas to Memphis. Farewell.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
- (Incorporated by Royal Charter A .D. 1720)
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with tho
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager (or Australia.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM.
Game Little Horse
The story of this year’s Vic-
toria Derby is of the courage
of the pony-sized Sir Blink.
In one of the fastest-run
Derbys on record Sir Blink was
struggling in the early stages
to keep within sighting-distance
of the leaders. A mile from
home he had only two runners
behind him, and was giving the
front-runner at least 15 lengths.
Williamson had to put pres-
sure on earlier than he would
have liked to get Sir Blink into
a winning position on the turn.
The little fellow responded
well, and halfway down the
straight seemed likely to win
comfortably. It was then that
Ron Hutchinson brought
Master Rane along with a
powerful challenge, but Sir
Blink found another effort —to
win, not as easily as expected
from a 2-to-l-on favorite but
well enough.
Time for the event, 2.30+,
was just half-a-second outside
the race record—and a good
many Derbys have been run on
a faster track than last Satur-
day’s.
It was Williamson’s first Vic-
toria Derby winner. He said
that Sir Blink had had to win
the hard way.
Sir Blink’s classic - win
illustrates the luck of the racing
game. Part-owner Mrs. W.
Kellett, who gave 475gns. for
the colt in New Zealand, had
not previously raced a horse —
and from 18 starts Sir Blink has
won seven times and earned
£23,935 stakemoney. He is by
Blue Coral (three times a
winner over two miles in Eng-
land) from Inky by Sir Beau
from Haughty by Inflation
from Cutie (granddam of
Rising Fast) by Nigger
Minstrel.
Lord's winning sequence —
six in a row—ended in the
L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes.
Surprisingly, he went under,
not to Prince Darius, his most-
feared rival, but to Monte
Carlo. Although the connec-
tions of Monte Carlo put in
for a good win—he shortened
from sixes to 7 to 2 —the
general public confined their
attention to Lord and Prince
Darius. It was not that Monte
Carlo did not have the record
to win, but he ran so badly
in the Caulfield Cup that many
thought he had trained-off after
his hard run in winning the
Metropolitan.
• • • +
It was a brilliant win .by
Monte Carlo in the Mac-
kinnon Stakes. A furlong out
Lord and Prince Darius were
neck-and-neck and seemed to
have the race between them,
but Sellwood brought Monte
Carlo down the outside, and
the son of Lucky Bag raced
past the other two as though
he had just joined-in. On the
line he was four lengths clear.
In the conditions, the time,
2.2} for the 10 furlongs, was
very good. It was the third
year in a row that the Mac-
kinnon has provided an up-
set. Two years ago Sir William,
at long odds, defeated Red-
craze, and last year Sailor’s
Guide beat the odds-on Syntax.
The five - furlongs Mari-
byrnong Plate has seen some
sparkling performances in
recent years, but it is doubtful
if any two-year-old has won
the race more easily than Fine
And Dandy last Saturday.
Against a pretty good galloper
in Royal Artist, he was always
galloping well within himself
to win by eight lengths—and
that could have been doubled.
While the other riders were
getting all they could out of
their mounts, Schumacher, on
Fine And Dandy, sat as quietly
as a dowager in church, and
let his mount run his own race.
There is no doubt that Fine
And Dandy is the fastest
youngster in the land. He is
unlikely to be anything more
than a speedster—very few
Maribyrnong Plate winners
have ever shown stamina with
maturity—but he should win
whatever two-year-old events
Harry Plant selects for him.
There were only five runners
in the Maribyrnong Plate last
Saturday, and three of them,
including the winner and
runner-up Royal Artist, were
Star Kingdoms. After Satur-
day's win Harry Plant said that
Fine And Dandy would be
spelled until the time came
to prepare him for the Golden
Slipper Stakes at Rosehill next
Easter.
The betting was the odd
feature of the mile Cantala
Stakes at Flemington. Although
there were only nine starters,
four of them went out equal-
favorites at 5 to I—and1 —and not one
of the four ran a place! The
winner was the best son of
Comic Court, the five-year-old
entire Droll Prince. He’s
trained in Melbourne by
Tommy Woodcock, but is
jointly owned .by Sydneysider
W. J. Bradshaw and his
daughter, Mrs. P. Mason, who
lives in Adelaide. Through-
out his career Droll Prince has
been a most consistent sort. He
has won seven races, and prior
to Saturday’s success his recent
record was a dead-heat for first
and three thirds from four
starts, including the minor
place in this year’s Toorak
Handicap.
«* • • m
In most years the 10-furlongs
Wakeful Stakes offers a pre-
view of the Oaks. It is doubt-
ful if that will be the case this
year. Winner of the Wakeful
last Saturday, Chicola, is a use-
ful filly, but the field in the race
was not up to the usual
standard. Victoria’s best filly,
But Beautiful, took on the colts
in the Derby, and Miss Glory,
who won the open-company
Kyneton Cup last week, was
another to miss the Wakeful.
Those two will make
Chicola’s task difficult in the
fillies’ classic tomorrow (Thurs-
day). Nonetheless, Chicola, an
Fmpyrean-Libyan Lass filly,
has been a good performer for
her owner, Mrs. J. Foster.
Lightly-raced, the filly has
started only seven times for
three wins. She won at her
first start at Moonee Valley
in June this year. It would be
in keeping with the spirit of
“Ladies’ Day’’ if Chicola
could win the big race for Mrs.
Foster tomorrow.
The Oaks—most important
fillies’ event in the Australian
calendar—dates, like the Mel-
bourne Cup, to 1861. Run at
a mile-and-a-half, it’s for three-
year-old fillies, with the set
weight of 8.10. The record-
book lists tw'o fillies that were
something right out of the box
—Briseis (1876) and Auraria
(1895); both won the Victoria
Derby, the Melbourne Cup and
the Oaks in the one week.
The only other Oaks winner
who also won a Melbourne
Cup was Evening Peal, who
won the fillies’ classic in 1955,
and the Melbourne Cup the
following year.
Selections for The Oaks:
But Beautiful, 1 ; Miss Glory,
2 ; Chicola, 3.
In one of those unaccount-
able things that make a book-
maker’s lot an enviable one,
Sweet Khristine, at 100 to 1,
defeated the odds-on chance
Misting in the first heat of
Saturday’s Smithfield Handicap
for three-year-olds at Fleming-
ton. Racegoers stared in un-
belief as the chestnut Cronides
filly raced out of the ruck to win
the Smithfield going away. It
was Sweet Khristine’s first run
as a three-year-old—she had
not raced since last May—and
as a two-year-old she had never
looked like winning a race.
Still, she is not the first to come
up a much-improved galloper
as a three-year-old.
There was no such surprise
in the second heat of the Smith-
field. The winner, Chipperfield,
had won three in a row in
Sydney before making the trip
to Melbourne. He found the
class in the Caulfield Guineas
too rich for him, but in the
weak field last Saturday went
out a warm favorite, and gave
his backers no worry.
The six-year-old Brimstone
gelding Baystone rounded-off a
good day for the Sydney
visitors when he scored easily
in the Hotham Handicap. He,
of course, races well on all


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony . of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £20,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 8131 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
tracks. He had very solid
backing in the Hotham.
* * *
At Rosehili
Among the starters in last
Saturday’s Maiden Stakes for
colts and geldings at Rosehili
(won by Prince Zobah) was
one that cost 7100gns. as a
yearling—and he was among
the also-ran. That was
Matinee Idol, who, going out
at 100 to 1, beat only a couple
home. However, he met with
some interference.
Another pricey one, Star
Sovereign (4000gns. as a year-
ling), landed his first race when
he won the Second Parramatta
Stakes, a Graduation Stakes
event. A three-year-old geld-
ing by Star Kingdom (imp.)
from Talcara by Talking, raced
by D. Chrystal and trained by
T. J. Smith, Star Sovereign
eased in betting from 9 to 4
to 9 to 2, but won easily, in
faster time than that taken by
Half Sound in the First Parra-
matta.
Rosebery trainer Bob Stuart
has several smart gallopers in
his team, and the first three
months of this season have been
lucky for him. Another
winner—a newcomer to racing
—was added to the stable’s list
when Spacewise showed an
excellent turn of speed to win
Rosehill’s Two - year - old
Maiden for fillies by five
lengths. Raced by M. V. Point
and his wife, Spacewise is bred
for speed. Her dam, Merrie
Merton, won the A.J.C. Gim-
crack Stakes. Merrie Merton
has thrown several winners,
but Spacewise, who is by Fly-
ing Missel (Am.), might prove
the best of her progeny. She
is a good-looker and a brilliant
galloper.
Count Fall having been
scratched from the First Parra-
matta Stakes, Half Sound was
the obvious first choice, and,
ridden with judgment by
apprentice R. Wilton, the grey
had an easy win over Macleay
River and the pacemaker,
Light Touch. Half Sound has
won at four of his last five
starts, and was second at his
other outing. He now goes into
open company, and could soon
win a Welter. Trainer T. D.
Brosnan has him in fine fettle.
Backers of the favorite,
Royal Kingdom, had jockey C.
Kelly to thank for smart think-
ing in the Rosehiil Flying
Handicap. Kelly seemed to be
pocketed shortly after turning
into the straight, but he forced
his way through a narrow
opening between Cornelius, on
the rails, and New Farm. There
was room for him to go
through, but only just. New
Farm finished second and
Cornelius third. Kelly travels
far and wide to take mounts
for both country and city
owners ; he’s had well-deserved
success this season.
The Turkestan stable made
plans to win the Rosehiil
Handicap following the geld-
ing’s Epsom Handicap win, a
“When I say, ‘Break clean,” BREAK CLEAN!”
good run in the Final Handi-
cap at Randwick on October
11 and a splendid trial over
six furlongs. However, though
he was carrying only 31b. more
than he had in the Epsom, he
badly let-down those who’d
backed him to 9-to-4 favorit-
ism. The race went to the con-
sistent Compass, who made his
winning tally three on end.
Compass should perform well
in the A.J.C. Summer Cup next
month and in other events
over the Christmas and New
Year holidays.
Gay Lover has had five
different trainers in less than
five years of racing, but his
latest trainer, H. T. Walsh, and
Alec Higgins, who is racing
the five-year-old Nilo galloper,
have adopted different methods
on the training-tracks at Rand-
wick, and they’ve brought suc-
cessive wins—at Randwick
and at Rosehiil. Under his
present control Gay Lover
doesn’t do much in the way of
fast work, and also he is being
ridden in races from the rear
of the field, instead of in front,
as was the usual order in
earlier runs. He was many
lengths from the leaders at the
home-turn in the Rosehiil
Welter, but, as at Randwick,
rider G. Podmore timed his
run so well that Gay Lover
landed the money right on the
post, in a photo-finish in which
Post Early was backed at
odds-on. Gay Lover may now
be set for the Villiers.
Doug Weir was in fine form
at Newcastle, landing five of
the seven races on the card.
His successes considerably
benefited followers of Jack
Denham’s Canterbury stable,
for which Weir is No. 1 horse-
man. Denham trained both
Newcastle Maiden winners,
Bonalbo and Trim Heels.
Bonalbo is by Soho from
Birdet, Trim Heels by Achilles
from Trim Veil.
• • • •
Winners at last Saturday’s
Doomben fixture included
Aty’s Rose, one of the first of
the progeny of Pan II (Fr.) to
be auctioned at the Randwick
yearling-sales last Easter. Stud-
master Lionel Israel secured
top prices for the colts and
fillies by this importation. Aty’s
Rose- had sound backing for
the Second Juvenile Handicap,
which she won easily from La
Field and Gulf Kewpie. The
winner’s dam, Tola Rose, is by
Portofino (imp.) from Natiya
by Brazen (imp.). Tola Rose
is dam of several winners.
Standfast—he’s by Jambo
(imp.) from Stayput by
Avalanche (imp)—didn’t take
long to win a race. He had.
won two-year-old barrier-trials
at Randwick and Rosebery and
had had one unplaced outing in
public (sixth to Travel Boy at
Randwick) before comfortably
winning the Warwick Farm
midweek Maiden Juvenile
Stakes. Trained and raced by
Randwick mentor C. Ryan,
the colt now looks a good
buy at the 700gns. he cost at
the Randwick sales last April.
Stayput is a half-sister to Don-
caster winner Prelate. V. C.
Bath bred Standfast at his
Bhima Stud, Scone (N.S.W.).
Sweet Victory, easy winner
of the Warwick Farm Maiden
Stakes for two-year-old fillies,
is one of the speedy Newtown
Wonders, and a first foal of
Victory Flight (imp.), a half-
sister to Tarien (imp.), who was
so successfully trained at
Randwick by T. J. Smith,
trainer now of Sweet Victory.
Victory Flight, a winner in
England, was got by Sayajiro
from Oriens by Hyperion, so
on breeding-lines there should
be many more wins by. Sweet
Victory, whose smooth gallop-
ing action is something out of
the ordinary.
W. J. Smith was at Warwick
Farm to see his five-year-old
Near Way (imp.) gelding Pen-
way win the Novice Mile in
promising style from Royal
Medal and Staride. Penway—
now trained at Randwick by
E. D. Lawson —did his early
racing in Victoria, and had
wins at Yarra Glen and Ballan.
He’s from the Pentheus mare
Pentella, whose dam, Lady
Cistella, was by Cistercian
(imp.).
* * *
Trots
Diabolo Don coasted to an
easy victory from a brilliant
field in last Friday night’s
£5OOO Harold Park Spring
Cup. He turned the tables on
Fettle and Sibelia, who had
finished ahead of him in the
previous week’s Free-for-all —•
this time beating Sibelia by a
length and three-quarters, with
Fettle three-quarters of' a
length further away.
From the 12yds. mark
Diabolo Don had a clear run in
sixth place (one wide) to the
bell. About two furlongs from
home driver Len Treasure
applied the pressure, and within
50yds. Diabolo Don had swept
to a two-length lead. Favorite
Fettle, who started from the


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ,
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; £ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin" or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
inside on the 12yds. mark, was
pocketed in about ninth posi-
tion until well into the last
lap. He came from there with
a great run to cut Mineral
Spring out of third possie.
Sibelia ran a great race from
36yds. behind. She raced on
the outside of Fettle to the
bell and went three wide in the
final lap, getting within a
length of Diabolo Don making
the turn into the straight, but
the Don safely held the cham-
pion. Youngest horse in the
race, Diabolo Don has now
had 12 wins, a second and four
thirds from 18 races at Harold
Park.
First Kiss smashed his own
race-record by 2fsec. when he
easily won the £2OOO Spring
Handicap from Sandy High-
land and Field Dixie. The
Bathurst pacer clocked
3.36 f a mile - rate of 2.9.
Bowling along in front from
the start, driver Joe Turnbull
had the pacer moving fast from
the half-mile, and, in a fault-
less exhibition of pacing, went
on to an easy win.
Apmat, who has won at his
last four starts after slow get-
aways, took out the £lOOO
Carnival Handicap after again
breaking badly at the Start.
* * *
The Cricketers
After two matches in Perth,
both of which petered-out into
draws, the M.C.C., with
skipper May added to its then
casualty-list, moved east against
S.A. Outstanding features of
the first two days’ play in
Adelaide were an enterprising
88 by English opener Richard-
son,. and good spin-bowling
efforts by Laker (5-31 off 17.3
overs, which helped to keep
S.A.’s total down to 165) and
by former N.S.W. all-rounder
Martin (7-110).
“Atala”: Opening-bat Gavin
Stevens, who made a neat top-
scoring 38 against the MC.C.
in S.A.’s first innings, made
three successive Shield centuries
last season, 164 and 111 against
N.S.W. and 143 against Queens-
land. First time that had
happened since Bradman made
five in a row in 1938-39. Inci-
dentally, a brother of Stevens
is Bob Stevens, who led the
Australian team which recently
won the Eisenhower Cup for
world amateur-golf supremacy.
• • • •
On the last day of the
Sheffield Shield game in Bris-
bane, in which N.S.W. easily
beat Queensland on the first
innings and went close to win-
ning outright, the annual Colts
game between the two States
opened in Sydney—a game
which had a like result, but
with the position of the States
reversed: Q. Colts, 403
(Vievers 126, McAllister 89,
Easton 77); N.S.W. Colts, 162
(Marks 44) and 377 (Marks
169, Southwell 74, Sterling 58).
N.S.W. had lost 5-55 at one
stage of the second innings.
Most impressive bowler in the
game was Queensland fast-
bowler Peter Allen, who took
3-35 and 4-57 and who cap-
tured a wicket in his first over
in each innings.
Vievers, Queensland’s cap-
tain, has made a couple of
centuries in Brisbane’s club-
games this season, while Marks
has an even more impressive
record in Sydney grade-cricket
—on Saturday he made 126
not-out, his fourth century in
six grade innings, being dis-
missed only once in the six
“digs” for less than 100.
* * *
“Veryl”: Story going the
cricketing rounds is that Arthur
Mailey deliberately didn't go
really flat-out against Glouces-
ter in 1921 so that enough
runs could be knocked off him
for him to finish with 10-66, and
thus give him the title for his
book, 10 for 66 and All That.
Be that as it may, had just one
or two more runs, or one or
two less, been scored off him,
and Arthur had taken, say,
10-67, then he would certainly
have had his work cut out to
get as neat a title.
* * *
Other Sports
Ashley Cooper, runner-up
for the title in 1955 and winner
(defeating Hoad in five sets) in
1956, won the 1958 Queensland
singles-title by comfortably defeat-
ing Queenslander Mai Anderson in
four sets, 6-3, 1-6, 6-1, 6-4. An
incident occurred during the game
when Q.L.T.A. president Edwards
“sacked” referee Stumbles for
refusing to allow the players to
wear spikes on a court which had
become slippery though rain.
In the semi-finals, played in
terrific heat, Cooper beat promising
Rod Laver, while Anderson elimin-
ated his main rival for his Davis
Cup berth, Neale Fraser. Last
year's winner of the title, Roy
Emerson, was outed by Laver in
straight sets in the quarter-finals.
When Emerson won the singles-
title last year he was only the
second Northerner to win the State
title. This year the doubles went
to a Queensland combination for
the first time. Anderson and Laver,
pairing practically for the first time,
defeated the experienced team of
Cooper and Fraser, 2-6, 7-5,
10-8, 7-5.
Apropos the doubles, last year’s
doubles-final, between Emerson-
Howe and Anderson-Rose, was
called-ofx when time ran out with
the score at two sets each. At
the time it was stated that the gams
would be played right over again
at the beginning of this year's
titles; but the fact is, of course,
that Rose (at the time of writing,
anyway) was still under suspension
by the L.T.A.A., and nothing was
heard of the replay.
The women’s title was won by
Queensland-born South African
Mrs. Fancutt (formerly Daphne
Seeney), who beat one of the other
two South African girls doing the
Australian circuit, Sandra Reynolds,
7-5, 6-1.
“Cunedda”: Spanish tennis-
player A. Gimeno could be-
come Europe’s best. The 21-
year-old Spaniard has shown
out fairly well in Australia, as
has his 17-year-old colleague
Jose Arilla, who is one of the
best juniors in the world. The
pair should improve greatly as
a result of their Australian
tour, and, as a two-man team,
could perhaps make Spain a
serious contender for the Davis
Cup.
* * *
“Sandgrove”: W. J. God-
frey, who won the N.Z.
Amateur Golf Championship
(B. 29/10/’5B), is of Maori
descent. Draws attention to the
prominence of the Maori in
N.Z. sport today. Pehi holds
the heavyweight boxing-title,
Ruia Morrison the women’s
tennis-title; All Blacks K.
Davis and W. Gray head a
large group of fine Rugby
Union footballers (in past
years there was, of course,
George Nepia, one of the
greatest of all fullbacks); W.
Sorenson was rated the best
centre in the country by the
English Rugby League tourists,
and there are other fine League
backs and forwards like H.
Maxwell, Ratima, Yates and
Haggie. Also, there are axe-
men, swimmers and wrestlers
of note. Cricket, however,
makes little appeal to Henare.
* * *
“Rossby”: May I complete
the story of Melbourne’s
Soccer, the last 1958 football
competition in Australia to
finish. As told in B. 15/10/’5B,
Wilhelmina and Juventus tied
2-all in both Dockerty Cup
final and State League final. In
replays on recent successive
Sundays the Dutch side beat
Juventus 3-0 in a hectic
Dockerty Cup final (three men
were sent-off in the game), and
Juventus turned the tables 2-1
in the other final. Wilhelmina
had bad luck in this game, as
it had to run against a stiff wind
each way—like the two teams,
the wind, too, turned round-
about at the interval, and
doubled-up against the Dutch-
men.
* * *
At West Melbourne on
Friday night Australian middle-
weight champion Clive Stewart
defeated American negro A 1
Williams on points. Stewart
has now won all three fights
with Williams? In their first
fight, in Sydney last June, Vic
Patrick’s points-decision was
disputed by the crowd, but
Stewart has been a clear winner
in the other two bouts. Since
being in Australia, Williams
has also been outpointed by
Billy Stanley (another Patrick
verdict not endorsed unani-
mously), has outpointed Stanley
in a return bout and has beaten
Harry Grogan on a t.k.o.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND KtJNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICKENS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
STERLING LOOKS UP
‘'TTHE striking feature of
. [Britain’s] foreign - pay-
ments accounts for the first
half of this year is the sheer
size of the current surplus. A
surplus exceeding £3OO million
is an aim for which successive
Chancellors of the Exchequer
have worked vainly since the
war: it has now been attained
for the first time, not in 12
months but in six. The impor-
tance of this achievement can
scarcely be exaggerated.”
Thus London “Financial
Times” on the remarkable
recovery of Britain’s interna-
tional accounts, an all-the-more
remarkable feat considered in
the light of an American reces-
sion which was expected tb
weaken the sterling area
by drastically cutting its earn-
ings, particularly of dollars.
A London “Daily Mail”
review of the recovery com-
ments that “Britain’s balance-
of-payments surplus in the 12
months from July, 1957, to
June, 1958, amounted to £4BB
million. That is good—very
good indeed. It is the highest
ever achieved. Even more
remarkable is the fact that in
the past six months we earned
a surplus of £137 million on
visible trade.
“This means that we are
more than paying for what we
buy out of the income from
what we sell —something we
have not achieved since the
1850’s. In the century since
there has always been a trading-
deficit. It has been made good
by other earnings. Now we are
on the right side of the ledger
even before these come rolling
in.
“How has it been done? It is
partly due to the favorable
terms of trade. We have been
buying cheaper and selling
dearer than we could before.
But our sound balance-sheet is
also due to the Government’s
policies, which seemed so stern
and drastic in September, 1957.
These have done the trick.
“The Socialists say the
economy is stagnating. We can
only say that if stagnation
means nearly £5OO million
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune”
“WE CAN ALWAYS EXPAND INTO RUSSIA .”
which you did not expect, let
us have more of it.
“There has, of course, been
a measure of deflation —a freez-
ing of credit and a damping-
down of surplus production
for the home market. This was
necessary to strengthen the £
and restore confidence in
Britain as a going concern.
“Britain can now move for-
ward with the leverage given by
a sound economy. Already
credit-restrictions have been
relaxed and bank-loans are
freely available. If these
measures are not enough to
relieve unemployment the
country is now in a much
better position to set others in
motion. To have nearly 500,000
workless men and women is
regrettable. But if the Govern-
ment had taken no steps to
stop runaway inflation it is
likely that by now we should
have had mass unemployment.”
Referring to the UK-
Balance of Payments White
Paper, London “Daily Tele-
graph” gives the following
account of the recovery:
“First, within the sterling
area itself trade was kept at a
high level, in spite of the
reduced earnings of the raw-
material producing countries,
by drawing on their sterling-
balances. The dominions and
colonies drew on these during
the 12 months to the end of
June, 1958, to the tune of £3OO
million. Then the United
Kingdom itself earned a res-
pectable surplus with the non-
sterling world. Indeed, largely
because of the fall in raw-
material prices, which made our
imports cheaper, we earned in
the first six months of this
year a surplus of £63 million
from the dollar area —a marked
change from the deficit of £24
million in the corresponding
period of 1957.
“Finally, and somewhat
unexpectedly, the other coun-
tries of the sterling area also
improved their total balance
with the rest of the world.
Drawings from the Interna-
tional Monetary Fund, loans
from the World Bank, and an
appreciable volume of private
lending, mainly from America,
were responsible for this
improvement.
“This is not quite all the
picture. In fact, so far as it
makes it look as though the
sterling area has come through
the American recession purely
by good luck, it is seriously
deficient. It was the policy
adopted in the United King-
dom itself, especially that
initiated in September, 1957,
which enabled advantage to be
taken of favorable circum-
stances. One significant detail
from the White Paper which
confirms this is the rise in the
balances held in London by
countries other than those
which belong to the sterling
area: this rise is a measure of
the return of confidence in the
pound.
“In a broader sense it was
the policy of checking demand
within the United Kingdom
which ensured that the main
effect of all the developments
sketched above was to bring a
marked and steady rise in the
gold- and dollar-reserves. The
most striking change from this
time last year is the improve-
ment in the relation between
our [Britain’s] cash (the gold-
and dollar-reserves) and our
debts (the sterling balances).
This is what we were aiming
for.”
Looking to the future, Lon-
don “Spectator” nominates
“two important reasons for
confidence”:
“The first is that as we are
managing to balance our
trade- or merchandise-account
in this unprecedented manner,
the whole of our earnings
from ‘invisible’ trade can be
devoted to building up the
gold- and dollar-reserves, and
to financing capital-investment
overseas.
“These earnings—from the
financial services we render to
the rest of the world, and from
the oil and shipping industries
—came to nearly £2OO million
in the first six months of this
year. And because we are
now able to run this substantial
surplus in our accounts we
shall be able to help those
countries which have suffered
from the fall in the world
prices of the commodities


From Au
m
k
%
/
8.0.A.C. takes good care of you . . . personally.
world’s fastest, smoothest jet-prop airliner
The magnificent new 8.0.A.C.
Britannia is now serving U.K., U.S.A.,
East, Central and South Africa,
Middle East, Pakistan, India, Ceylon,
Singapore, Malaya, Australia, Hong
Kong and Tokyo.
The Britannia is the pride of 8.0.A.C.’s
world-wide fleet ... to fly in one is to
enjoy perfection in air travel !
Speed, comfort, courtesy ... all these
words mean so much more than ever
before. Every minute of your journey
will be a revelation ... a new, wonder-
ful experience.
Remember—whether you fly de Luxe,
First Class or Tourist —8.0.A.C. has
the reputation for the world’s finest,
most dependable passenger service.
Discover for yourself why 8.0.A.C.
leads the world in air travel !
Information and bookings from all leading Travel Agents and
Qantas Empire Airways (8.0.A.C. General Sales Agents for Australia).
mum
World
leader /
travel
air
/:
jTO.
(lit
takes good can of you
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL, S.A.A. AND C.A.A.
A94/AU
which they sell. By borrowing
from us they will be able to
keep up their purchases of
goods from this and other
countries. The new arrange-
ments outlined at the Montreal
conference will make it easier
for them to borrow, and these
latest figures show that Britain
is now in a position to lend
without straining our resources.
“The second point is that the
importance of these primary-
producing countries to our
export trade is greatly exag-
gerated. More than half of
what Britain sells abroad now
goes to America and to
Europe. For some time
America, and not Australia, has
been our most important
market. Since business is
picking-up both in America
and in nearly all European
countries, the outlook for our
exports is more reassuring than
is generally realised. All in all,
by the end of this year Britain
will be in a stronger position
than at any time since the end
of the war. The outlook for
1959 is extremely good.”
India
Commenting on Mr. Nehru's
speech at the meeting in New
Delhi of the International
Monetary Fund and the World
Bank—“he handsomely con-
ceded that the Indian Plan
might be considered over-
ambitious by those whose only
ec on omic criterion was
‘resources, money and all that,’
but pointed to the immense
(and undeniable) poverty of
India and asked if the economic
Gradgrinds ever thought of
what was going on in the
Indian mind”—London “Time
and Tide” suggests that “all
this means that Mr. Nehru
wants a large loan with no solid
guarantee that he will be able
to service it”:
“But the principles of inter-
national banking are substan-
tially the same as the principles
of domestic banking. A bank-
manager performs no kindness
for a client if he advances him
money for a more-than-dubious
project. If Mr. Nehru wants
money for projects which may
well be praiseworthy but are
uneconomic, he is asking not
for a bank-loan but for charity.
And people who make chari-
table gifts have a right to
demand some guarantee that
the money will be properly
spent. This may offend the
prickly pride of Mr. Nehru and
be taken as an insult to India’s
new and sensitive indepen-
dence. But the prerequisite of


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in ail Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON, Manager.
any nation’s independence is a
national capacity (and willing-
ness) to pay its own bills.
“India’s most effective
money-spinning argument is
political. If the Communist
Government of China proves
an economic success and the
democratic Government of
India proves an economic
failure, then the ideological
battle for all Asia will be lost.
But if India’s [democratic’ plan
produces reasonably good
results, then the battle may yet
be won. So runs the argument.
“It [the argument] is entirely
fallacious. If India could
prosper out of her own
‘resources, money and all that’
plus genuine loans on economic
terms, then indeed something
would be proved. But if India
prospers through hand-outs
nothing at all would be proved.
A man boasting that he owes
his good health to his ‘way of
life’ will deceive and impress
nobody if it is notorious that
he is kept alive by endless
blood-transfusions.”
“New York Times,” on the
other hand, taking a thought-
ful look at “what goes on in the
Indian mind,” comments that
“we would, of course, deny the
Nehru thesis that the indus-
trialised nations of the free
world are on a par with the
Soviet Union in worshipping,
in any sense, any ‘god of the
machine’ ”:
“Yet the Prime Minister does
have a point. Great as are the
differences in standards of
living and welfare between a
typical steel-worker in Pitts-
burgh or in Magnitogorsk,
those differences are dwarfed
by any comparison of such
workers with the hungry and
illiterate peasants who make up
the great bulk of Asia's popula-
tion.
“It is at least understandable,
even though we disagree, that
to an Asian leader like Nehru
the differences between the
industrialised nations —Com-
munist or anti-Communist —
should seem small compared to
the gap that separates those
nations’ economic strength
from that of countries like
India.
“The enormous pressure
which leaders like Nehru feel
today is more than simply the
product of their own coun-
tries’ poverty. Is is also now
the product of fear and con-
cern born of developments in
Communist China. Faced by
this burgeoning dictatorial
colossus and by the vast needs
of their own people, the demo-
cratic leaders of Asia have no-
where to turn for large-scale
and really friendly aid other
than to the agencies of the free
world.
“In our own interest, as well
as in the interests of the peoples
affected, we should respond
—London “Daily Express ”
“IF ONLY THE NEXT ONE TO OUTER SPACE COULD HAVE A PASSENGER-
LIST—AND NO RETURN-TICKETS!”
generously to Nehru’s appeal
for more aid, to prevent fer-
ment from turning into
explosion.”
Weighing-in with pretty
complete agreement on that
point, London “News
Chronicle” adds that, “if
democracy fails in Mr. Nehru’s
sub-continent, the rest of Asia
will draw a dictatorship-
moral” :
“There are a number of
unpleasant symptoms. Parlia-
mentary democracy has become
deeply snarled-up in Ceylon as
well as in Indonesia. Now both
Burma and Pakistan have
suddenly switched to military
rule. In Pakistan the Presi-
dent has dismissed the Govern-
ment and banned all political
parties out of sheer disgust af
their antics. This leaves India
as the only stable democracy
left in Asia, and it is therefore
the last Asian country putting
Commonwealth beliefs into
practice.
“Almost wholly unreported,
Indian delegates have been
meeting at Darjeeling to dis-
cuss how democracy can be
made to work better. Their per-
sonal background is 400-million
hungry people; their global
background is all Asia on the
brink of the totalitarian abyss.
“Mr. Nehru has been openly
fractious, even with renewed
promises of support from the
West. His petulance must not
be allowed to obscure a per-
fectly straightforward fact.
Democracy throughout Asia is
crumbling, and if India is not
saved all Asia is menaced.”
Britain in Africa
London “Daily Express’’
comment on the results of
Britain’s work in Africa :
“Part of the harvest has
been disappearing. The State
of Ghana is hardly ideal. Some
of the fruit has been bitter. In
Kenya, there is the Mau Mau.
But rewards and recognition
have come too.
The Sudan, which cast her-
self off from the Empire five
years ago, now wants British
scientists, engineers, doctors,
and teachers to come back.
‘Please come and help us,’ is
the cry.
“On the very eve of self-
government comes a call of
distress from the Minister of
Education of Northern Nigeria.
British women are urgently
needed to teach there. Alhaji
Isa Kaila, the Minister, believes
that trained women will find his
appeal irresistible.
“In its need Nigeria calls
out, not to the anti-colonial
propagandists, not to U.N.,
but to the so-called ‘imperialist
exploiters.’
“What a magnificent answer
to the lie-campaign that has
been waged against the Empire
by wicked men abroad and
fools at home.”
Wool Prices
London “Financial Times”
comment on falling wool-
prices :
“While some primary-pro-
ducing countries can hope that
the recession in prices for their
commodities is over, there is as
yet no reason for such opti-
mism in Australia, New Zea-
land, South Africa and other
wool-producing areas. Wool-
prices are currently about 30
per cent, lower than a year ago
and, though during September
it looked as if the auctions in
Australia were acquiring a
stronger tone, the decline has
started again over the past
week.
“The setback in wool actually
began in May, 1957, later than
in most other commodities, and
it has been going on without
much sign of an improvement
ever since. Over the period as
a whole wool prices have come
down by over 40 per cent.;
Merinos 64’s quality, which
can be taken as typical Aus-
tralian wool, have fallen from
140 d. per pound to around
80d., while crossbred 56’s, a
guide to New Zealand price
trends, have dropped from
1 lOd. to under 70d. per pound.
“The one consolation for
woolgrowers is that, until this
setback, they had been
experiencing exceptional pros-
perity. Wool - textile activity
had been rising rapidly,
especially during the first half
of 1957, and wool prices with
it. Indeed, the recent price
decline and the accompanying
drop in textile production (out-
put in the main manufacturing


THE “WILD CAT"
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearlv Subscription .. 22/6
WHY SUFFER FROM
RHEUMATISM
Compounded from an old Indian Formula, STRATTONS RHEUMATIC
and ARTHRITIS POWDER contains no harmful drugs, will not affect
the heart and has successfully overcome the most difficult and
obstinate cases when all other treatments have failed. Persons in all
walks of life have found freedom from suffering, and hundreds of
grateful letters from satisfied users have been received by our
Consultant whose Treatment Advice is made available to you
FREE OF CHARGE as part of our Personalised Service which has
revolutionised the treatment of all types of Rheumatism and Arthritis
throughout the Commonwealth.
Four Weeks Treatment complete with Advice and Instructions and a
SPECIAL CONCESSION VOUCHER if your complaint needs further
treatment . . . costs only £1 POST FREE.
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC POWDER Ltd.
9 Barrack St., Perth, W.A.
countries during January-June
this year was 17 per cent, down
on the 1957 level) have pro-
bably been largely the result of
over-expansion during this
earlier period.
“Production of wool pro-
ducts early in 1957 ran ahead
of the growth of consumer
demand, and stocks were built
up throughout the trade. Over
the past 12 months or so manu-
facturers and merchants have
been trying to get their stocks
back to a more normal level,
with the result that wool-tex-
tile activity has been unusually
depressed. The depth of the
decline in wool certainly could
not have been justified by a
slump in retail sales ; these in
fact have held up well.
“The wool-trade has addi-
tionally had to contend with the
turn in the general economic
picture, with foreign-exchange
difficulties, which at one time
threatened to curtail Japan’s
purchases of raw wool from the
Commonwealth, and with high
interest-rates. The industry in
this couptry [Britain] has also
been hit bv the U.S. wool
tariff. Moreover, the fall in
raw-wool prices has itself
been a depressing factor, the
large stock-losses which it has
caused have increased the
general air of despondency in
the industry and made every-
one extremely reluctant to
undertake new commitments.”
Britain and Germany
In view of some of the
comment in the British press a
while back (particularly on the
subject of rearming Germany)
the Anglo-German rapproche-
ment has been no less remark-
able than the accord reached
between France and Germany
■ —noted here lately as one of the
nTajor post-war achievements
in Europe.
The current situation as
London “Time and Tide” sees
it is that “at no time during this
century have Britain and Ger-
many been as closely linked
as today and at no other time
in history has there been such
complete identity of view be-
tween the Governments of the
two countries”:
“There is, of course, inevit-
ably still a small band of
people who refuse to distinguish
—London "Daily Mail”
“WERE GONNA WASH THAT MAN RIGHT OUT OF
OUR HAIR.”
between the Germany which
died in 1945 !and. the West
German State which Dr.
Adenauer has since built and
of which Dr. Heuss [the
President], with his long anti-
Nazi and liberal record, is an
exemplary head. But the fact
remains that in not a single
case has this new Germany
used her considerable political
influence other than construc-
tively in the cause of the free
world and to further inter-
national understanding and
Western European unity.
“There is no reason to doubt
that this contribution to the
common good will steadily
increase. The day is already
near when West Germany will
have the largest standing Army
under Nato command, which
will give her Government a
voice in Nato affairs hardly to
be ignored. Germany is already
towering over her neighbors
in the economic and financial
fields, and will soon be the most
powerful member of the
European Common Market.
Her influence in this venture
will, moreover, steadily increase
in view of her high rate of
industrial investment.
“Germany is, therefore,
today an invaluable ally, and
the firm bond that has grown
between London and Bonn
cannot but contribute to
European and international
stability. There is already
closer co-operation and more
intimate consultation between
the two Governments than
between London and any other
European country, and both
Mr. Macmillan and Dr.
Adenauer have expressed the
intention of meeting for private
consultations at six-monthly
intervals. A genuine partner-
ship is, in fact, being built.”
Germany’s major sore-point,
of course, is reunification, and
here, Edinburgh “Scotsman”
notes, it needs the support of
the West:
“This problem is a con-
tinuing anxiety for the Bonn
Government. The recent
increase in intellectual refugees
from the East German prison-
house is further evidence of the
severity of living-conditions
under the Ulbricht regime. But
the prospect of reunification is
still dim because Mr. Khrush-
chev is trying to force Dr.
Adenauer to negotiate with
Ulbricht and thus sacrifice
whatever support he might have
from the Western Powers. A
contest between West Ger-
many and East Germany
backed by Soviet Russia would
be unlikely to have so satis-
factory an issue as one in which
Dr. Adenauer would have the
support of Britain and the
United States. The four
Powers have a responsibility
for the solution of the German
problem, but this is denied by
Russia for her own ends.”
Another war-time hangover
remains in the three almost
forgotten war - criminals in
Spandau Prison—Hess, Speer
and Schirach. They have been
left, “Manchester Guardian”
comments, “to brood and to
vegetate, surrounded by a fan-
tastic four-Power apparatus of
military guards and a civilian
staff supplied by the Germans”:
“The German share of the
cost is over £20,000 a year. The
expenses of the four Powers
(which they bear themselves) is
estimated to be at least twice as
high. At that rate they must be
the most expensive prisoners m
the world. Such grotesque
expenditure might still be justi-
fiable if their continued deten-
tion were felt to serve the
course of justice, or to be
essential for political reasons.
Neither of these views will
stand examination.
“Politically, the fear that
Germans may look upon these
men as heroes has proved
unfounded. On the contrary,
the Germans have now started
to review frankly their own
recent past. And on the score
of justice there was the moving
appeal, in our [the “Manchester
Guardian’s”] letter - columns
earlier this year, from Mr. Willi
Frischauer, who lost his parents
as a result of a decree signed
by Schirach.
“ ‘I am told,’ he wrote, ‘that
the minds of Speer and
Schirach are now almost com-
pletely blank, and that they
are beyond caring or wanting,
and hoping for, release.’
“Hess, who has been in cap-
tivity since he flew to England
in 1941, is probably schizo-
phrenic. On their record, these
men have no claim to mercy,
nor can their punishment ever
equal their offences. But they
ought to be released—not for
their own sake, but for the sake
of our standards of justice and
humanity. They have been
silenced by their punishment
and confuted by history.”


IN TEN YEARS
HALF-A-MILLION HOLDENS
Watching the half-
millionth Holden
being manufactured in
Melbourne or, at
least, its engine, etc., being
made at Fishermen’s Bend
and then, in the form of
a “mechanical pack,” being
sent to Dandenong and there
assembled with the Woodville-
made body-panels—is rather
like playing a 72-hole golf-
tournament in one day. You
walk, and you walk —and you
walk—for miles and miles along
assembly-lines—and there is
never a dull moment.
The previous time The
Bulletin went over the
Holden plant in Victoria it
was all at Fishermen’s Bend.
That was over five years ago,
when output was about a third
of what it is today. Now, with
the assembly-plant moved to
Dandenong and the vacated
space available for engine-
production, the changes that
have taken place are most
marked.
Not only is production so
much higher, but the floor-
space now given over purely
to research, testing, checking
and experiment represents the
floor-space of a factory in
itself.
Emphasis on Precision
This emphasis on precision
and balance in the produc-
tion of engine parts, and in the
assembly of the parts in the
engine itself, is matched by
new techniques in tempering
(or hardening) and annealing,
and in testing production
(including components bought
from outside sources) for
possible defects.
The most impressive change
at Fishermen’s Bend over the
past five years has undoubtedly
been this emphasis on preci-
sion, balance and reliability of
components. Everywhere there
is checking, testing, weighing,
measuring (with air-gauges and
elaborate meters of the micro-
scope type) and balancing.
Then the engine is given a test-
run on petrol before it and the
transmission and wheels are
sent to Dandenong to be
assembled with the body.
The Holden has become a
national institution since it was
put on the roads for the first
time in 1948, of which the fact
that 500,000 Holdens have been
sold in the first 10 years is
proof enough. Including com-
ponents made by manufac-
turers outside the General
Motors-Holden’s organisation,
the Holden today is nearly 97
per cent. Australian-made.
Chief imported items are some
of the Bosch electrical parts,
which are made in Germany.
An even higher Australian-
made content seems certain
before very long.
Jobs for 44,000
'There are 19,000 people
employed directly by
G. M.-H.—and there are 35,000
other people employed by firms
engaged solely in doing Holden
work. The economic import-
ance of the motor-car industry
in Australia, though only 10
years old in its present almost
self-sufficient sense, is seen
from these figures, which do
not, of course, include
employees of basic manufac-
turing industries or transport
industries.
To make half -a - million
Holdens, vast quantities of
materials, parts, components
and services were bought by
General Motors-Holden’s from
other industries, in all States of
Australia. These needs have
been provided by more than
4000 suppliers.
In making 500,000 Holdens,
the following materials (among
others) were used:
Steel (in various forms) 330,535 tons
Pig-iron 74,390 tons
Metallurgical coke .. 37,805 tons
Paint 3,387,455 gallons
Glass (toughened safety) 310 acres
Forgings 35,329,500
Tyres 2,500,000
Batteries 500,000
Body-hardware (handles,
locks, hinges, etc.) 37,370,925 pieces
Rubber components
(moulded and
extruded) 31,524,375
Cotton piece-goods, pad-
ding and wadding .. 2475 acres
Upholstery materials .. 1905 acres
Bituminised paper-board 5760 tons
Screws, nuts, rivets,
washers, etc 1340 million
Trim tacks 395 million
Zinc alloy (for die-
castings) 1550 tons
Arc-welding electrodes 49,750,000 ft.
As an “exploded” Holden
at the huge new Dandenong
plant shows most graphically,
there are more than 17,000
different parts in each Holden,
about 11,000 being body parts,
the remainder mechanical com-
ponents.
All these parts originate as
raw or processed materials.
One-third of the factory-cost
of a Holden is accounted for
by operations undertaken in
G.M.-H. plants. The remain-
ing two-thirds of the factory-
cost are bought from other
companies in the form of raw
materials, semi-finished com-
ponents, completed parts and
such essential services as elec-
tricity, gas and transportation.
The First Steps
'The first effective step toward
establishment of car-
manufacture in Australia was
taken in January, 1945, by
General Motors-Holden’s, Ltd.,
in response to a request from
the Commonwealth Govern-
ment to the Australian motor-
industry. The Government
believed that secondary indus-
try would have to be developed
if Australia was to expand. In
addition, the war had made the
nation realise how it was handi-
capped through being unable
to provide its own motor-
transport.
In its proposals, replying to
the Government’s invitation,
G.M.-H. stressed that it would
manufacture an Australian car
without bounty or subsidy, that
it sought no monopoly of the
new industry, and would wel-
come competition from other
companies which might under-
take similar manufacture under
the same conditions.
G.M.-H. also stated that
imported components and parts
of the Australian car would not
Production of the original Holden (left) reached 120,402 vehicles; the “New Look” Holden 169,950; the completely new Holden 155,159;
and output of the improved Holden to date has totalled 54,489 vehicles.


Congratulates
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S, LTD.
on its fine achievement in producing
500,000
Holden cars —another milestone in
Australia’s industrial progress
AU
ApM
STRALIA N PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Buy Australian Made
Aikman Street, South Melbourne.
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Mary vale, Broadford in Victoria;
Botany, N.S.W.; Petrie, Queensland and Bayswater, W.A.
“Sales Offices in all State Capitals
exceed 10 per cent of the lisf-
price, or five per cent, of the
car’s weight. Those under-
takings have been fulfilled.
Planning the Holden
T ate in 1946 the late Russell
Begg came to Australia to
be chief engineer of G.M.-H.
With him came his team of
selected American specialists
and 30 Australians who were
trained in the U.S.A. After
some months of local road-
tests with three American-built
prototypes a fourth test-car was
built at Fishermen’s Bend.
Later a fifth test-car was built
in Melbourne, and this incor-
porated every modification
proved necessary by Australian
road and G.M.-H. engineer-
ing department tests of the first
four prototypes.
Actually, one prototype car
covered 79,129 miles under
test (equivalent to 316,516
miles of normal owner-driving).
The test-cars covered an aggre-
gate of 236,750 miles.
When all planning was com-
pleted a “pilot” quantity of
the cars was manufactured to
test-out the new plants and
equipment. When these “pilot”
vehicles had successfully com-
pleted exhaustive durability
testing manufacture in volume
got under way. Finally, on
November 29, 1948, the car
was first shown to the Aus-
tralian public and was named
Holden as a tribute to a name
closely associated since 1856
with transportation in Australia
—the Holdens of Adelaide.
Fifty-per-cent, of the Market
'T'he enthusiasm of Aus-
A tralia’s. reception to the
Holden is demonstrated by
the proportion of the market
it has attracted ; and, from
the start, the tremendous public
interest in the manufacture of
Holden has been equalled by
the demand for it.
Meeting that demand has
since been the main task of
G.M.-H., and has required an
increase in output from 10 cars
a day (January, 1949) to the
present rate of 465 a day—or,
for this year, 110,000. The fol-
lowing are the
figures for Holden output and
cumulative production:
Cumulative.
1948 .... 163 163
1949 .. .. 7,724 7,887
1950 .. .. 20,190 28.077
1951 .. .. 25,249 53.326
1952 .. .. 31.918 85,244
1953 .. .. 441201 129,445
1954 .. .. 54,793 184,238
1955 .. .. 63.908 248,146
1956 .. .. 68,883 317,029
1957 .. .. 95,147 412,176
1958 (to
October 22) 87.824 500,000
Holden production reached
100 a day in February, 1951,
when manufacture was begun
of the Holden coupe-utility.
The 150-a-day rate was
achieved in October, 1952, and
the 200-a-day rate was reached
in December, 1953, when a
panel-van was added to the
range of models.
When the “New Look”
Holdens were announced on
October 29, 1953, cumulative
production of the original
Holden sedan and utility had
reached 120,402. When the
“New Model” Holden
passenger - sedans were
announced on July 19, 1956,
cumulative Holden production
had reached 290,352. The two
station-sedan models were
introduced in February, 1957,
and Holden cumulative produc-
tion had grown to 445,511 by
May 6, 1958, when the “Im-
proved Holden” models were
announced.
The production target is
125,000 completed Holdens a
year. That target should be
reached shortly after the
current £9-million expansion of
G.M.-H. plants and facilities
is completed.
Export Markets
Tn October, 1958, the cumula-
tive total of export Holdens
passed 10,000. Holden was
“tailored” for Australians and
Australian conditions, but its
proved features —size, power,
economy, comfort and dura-
bility—are proving equally
o Continued on page 55)


THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
Sydney's Most
Distinguished Hotel
Newly modernised and decorated
throughout, The Hotel Metropole is
fast becoming Sydney’s smartest and
most fashionable hotel. Right in the
heart of the city, the Hotel
Metropole offers you the comfort
and convenience of Australia’s
largest and friendliest hotel. Over
400 rooms all with telephones and
hot and cold water (85 with private
bathroom), luxurious ultra-modern
suites, 6 magnificent entertaining
rooms, swift, efficient room service
and a really fine dining room and
cellar.
Yes, at the Hotel Metropole you’ll
receive truly wonderful hospitality
and service in the traditional
lelaxed and friendly atmosphere
that makes the Hotel Metropole
THE place to stay in Sydney.
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Australia's Most
Friendly Hotel
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. DUESBURY, Deputy
Chairman; ALFRED S. WHITE, A. G. PARKER.
TT. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Manager.
’Phone: BU 7401 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Naturalisation
More power to the mayoral
elbow of Alderman C. A- Bulli-
vant, municipality of Ashfield
(N.S.W.), who is reported to
have announced that he will not
administer the oath of natural-
isation to New Australians who
cannot speak English. He is
said to have stated that if a
candidate for naturalisation
cannot repeat the oath after
him, he will refuse to admin-
ister it.
The mayor is not asking for
much. He is not suggesting
that a dictation-test should be
applied, either severely or
leniently, to New Australians
seeking naturalisation, and even
the most rabid exclusionist
might hesitate to advance such
an argument.
Nevertheless, a sufficient
knowledge of the English
language to enable an applicant
to repeat the oath intelligently
should be a minimum condi-
tion. After all, if an applicant
has no such knowledge of
English, how can he under-
stand the meaning of the oath?
“All We need now is a little piece of paper to Write the message on .”
If he swears to something that
is unintelligable to him, then
his oath is worthless.
These people are seeking the
advantages of , citizenship,
which is a benefit to be con-
ferred on an individual who has
shown a genuine desire to
qualify as a permanent unit in
the national structure. If he
won’t acquire a reasonable
command of the common lan-
guage he can’t be very genuine.
—Dunrobin. (N.S.W.).
Road-boards & Ratepayers
The Mayor of Bunbury
(W.A.), Councillor H. Payne,
has resigned after being cen-
sured for disclosing a confiden-
tial item to the local press. The
confidential matter seems to
have been an opinion the
council had obtained from its
solicitors.
I don’t know what arrange-
ments the Bunbury council has
with its solicitors, and 1 can
understand that the councillors
might want to regard certain
legal advice as confidential; on
the other hand, that advice was
paid for out of ratepayers’
money, and presumably it was
sought in the ratepayers’
interests. Conceivably it could
be regarded as ratepayers’ busi-
ness and something they were
entitled to know.
There’s too much secrecy
surrounding council and road-
board meetings in W.A. Rate-
payers permitted to
attend as observers, with the
result that they have to rely on
individual members’ reports of
what goes on —and apparently
a member who reports can be
disciplined. Why are these
meetings secret and their con-
tents confidential? Parliamen-
tary debates aren't. I can
attend them if I want to and
that fact may have some slight
corrective action on my
representative. Certainly news-
paper reports of Parliamentary
proceedings must have some
value The standard of debate
at road-board meetings would
improve out of sight if rate-
payers could attend to listen-
a ( nd '{ Papers ecu d
report without having to rely
on the secretary s handouts.
Theoretically, the ratepayer
can inspect the minutes. Know
how they’re compiled? In my
district the secretary summons
his stenographer the morning
after the meeting—or the
morning after that —and tries
to remember who said what
and to decide what should be
included. I’d say that system
was pretty general throughout
W.A. And in any case, even
where the minutes are taken
down at the time, the members
can vet them. The ratepayer
is told only what they think is
good for him to know. —G. S.
(W.A.).
Educational Organisations
What are the responsibilities
G f educational organisations in
regard to wages 9
° A frjend of min whose wife
js a qualified nurs i ng . s i ster ,
Hed for particu i ars regard-
; the j 0 of a
husband . and . wi f e team as
groundsman . house keeper at a
re cognised G.P.S. They were
told “ that the house keeper's
duties included superv £oii
of dining . room an d kitchen,
inciudi B the ordering of a ,i
supplies s and the gene “, clean .
ljn " a^d tidiness B o£ all build .
ings jn the school . The house .
keeper would also be respon-


NOTHING
IS
FREE!
*
«
*
♦♦
; ; : at least not from Governments!
“Free” Labor handouts can cost you plenty in
• higher taxes • higher prices and a • threat to your job
Everything you get from governments is paid for by you, one way or
another, in direct or hidden taxes.... That is what happened in New Zealand
recently, as the result of the Nash Labor Government's "free" handouts.
Now, New Zealand is borrowing £2O-million
from Australia to get itself out of its
difficulties.
AUSTRALIA
UNLIMITED
Don't Gamble Away Your Security
VOTE
on NOV. 22
and for the Senate— (7] McMullin S Anderson s McKellar
. . . and place a number in every square
Authorised bv J. L. CARRICK, Liberal Party of Australia.
LP.9.18
sible for the control of the 12
members of the staff.
The groundsman would be
required to tend lawns and
gardens and to effect repairs
and maintenance of a minor
nature. The housekeeper would
have weekends free, and her
husband have Saturday after-
noon and Sunday off. A house
was provided, consisting of one
main bedroom, a sleepout,
dining-room, lounge, bathroom
and kitchen, and the electricity
account, provided it was
reasonable, would be paid by
the school.
It sounds just what the
doctor ordered for a couple,
but the salaries are: house-
keeper, £8 a week, and grounds-
man, £8 a week.
Comparative wages in the
area are: pick-and-shovel
laborer, £l4 13s. 6d. a week ;
barmaid, £lO a week. Allow-
ing that the house and elec-
tricity are worth £4 a week,
the combined earnings of those
who accepted these positions
would be £2O a week
£4 13s. 6d. less than a laborer-
barmaid team. — Query (Q.).
Mail Services
On October 9, in Sydney,
I received a letter posted in
London on August 22, 1958.
This isn’t an isolated case—
surface-mails now usually take
from six to seven weeks.
Air-services now deliver the
mails in under 60 hours, but
what’s wrong with the surface-
mails? Fifty years ago, before
the advent of aeroplanes, we
got our mails in six weeks, or
even less. —Tocic E. (N.S.W.).
Woo! Cartel?
Allegations of the existence
of an international wool cartel
which keeps the value of Aus-
tralian wool below its true level
have been renewed by Mr.
P. R. Rogers in an article in
The Bulletin (8 /10/’5B) and
in letters published in Mel-
bourne “Age.” These allega-
tions, if well founded, are of
the utmost importance not only
to woolgrowers but to the
national economy. But are
they well founded?
The supporting evidence he
adduces lacks conviction ; it is
in fact very flimsy. It consists
of constantly-repeated asser-
tions that a cartel exists, and
figures are given relating to
wool - buying is concerned,
wool-futures covering a low-
price period. We are not told
which buying countries com-
prise the cartel, but Mr.
Rogers is certain that “the prac-
tice is for the cartel to sell,
after every Australian auction-
series, wool-futures below spot
auction-prices, thus destroying
confidence in current auction-
prices and forcing rates lower
than is justified, and then
cabling lower limits to their
buyers.” How does he know
all this?
One of the most surprising
statements in his article is that
“the London futures-market is
now the largest of its kind, and
considerable use is made of it,
legitimately, by Bradford
interests.” Now, so far as
Bradford is nearly synonymous
with the United Kingdom, for
it is the undoubted British
metropolis of the woollen-
and worsted - manufacturing
industry.
As Mr. Rogers admits that
Bradford is using wool-futures
legitimately (and therefore not
as part of a concerted effort to
depress the market), we are
asked to believe that the domin-
ant influence in United King-
dom woolbuying (and the U.K.
is traditionally the largest
buyer of Australian wool) is
not a party to the operations
of the mysterious cartel. Why
should Bradford interests, with
all their power and prestige
and their natural desire to buy
wool as cheaply as possible,
hold aloof from an arrange-
ment designed to depress
prices? Without Bradford’s
active participation no attempt
at a cartel could possibly
succeed.
It is significant that allega-
tions as to the supposed cartel
have been made from time to
time in the past, but only
when prices are low ; they are
rarely heard of when the
market is rising. That, as a
matter of fact, is the funda-
mental weakness of Mr.
Rogers’s argument; for a cartel,
if it is effective as an instru-
ment for keeping prices low,
ought to be much more active
and therefore much more
efficient when prices show a
rising tendency.
The supposed cartel must
have been singularly ineffec-
tive in the 1950-51 selling-
season, when the value of Aus-
tralian wool sold reached
the stupendous figure of
£651,902,000 by far the
highest amount ever realised.
It must also have slipped badly
in 1956-57 when it allowed the
Australian wool-cheque, at
£482,800,000, to rise to the
second-highest amount on
record.
Mr. Rogers attempts to
explain away the reason for
the 1950-51 rise (he misstates
the year as 1951-52) by stating
that “the cartel was too shrewd
to operate prior to March,
1951, because the market had
not had free access to wool for
many years, and it knew the
demand would be tremendous.”
This statement is amazing.
The fact is that, with the
resumption of wool-auctions
after the war, the market had
had free access to wool for
five years up to 1950-51, and


the consuming countries had
therefore more than ample
time to restock their wardrobes,
which had been depleted
during the war years.
Actually the record figures
quoted had no relationship to
cartels or, incidentally, to the
competition of synthetic fibres.
They were, to a large degree,
the direct result of grave
international events. AH that
need be said on that score at
present is that the figures
emphasise the disquieting fact
that Australia depends
primarily for its ultra-high
wool cheques on major war
or the immediate threat of
major war. — Fontaine (Vic.).
Police Surgeon’s Views
Twelve months ago Dr. J. H.
Birrell was appointed full-time
police-surgeon to the Victorian
Police Force —the first such
officer in the force’s history.
As reported in “Police Life,”
official newspaper of the force,
Dr. Birrell has had a particu-
larly heavy year, especially as
it was decided that the first
problem he should tackle was
the extent of “driving under
the influence.”
In his first year he has
examined over 600 drivers sus-
pected of being under the
influence, made some 400 court
appearances, and has frequently
worked over 100 hours a week.
He can therefore be regarded
as a trained observer who has
had ample opportunity to
study his subject first-hand. In
this regard he differs from the
very vocal advocates of a
laissez-faire policy in respect of
motorists —who oppose blood-
“Yes, my Alf's always cautious about discarding
his winter Woollies .”
tests as an unwarrantable inter-
ference with the liberty of the
individual, and who believe
that every citizen can be relied
upon to judge whether he is fit
to drive a car after a prolonged
session at a hotel.
But let Dr. Birrell speak for
himself:
It became very obvious early in
my work that alcohol figured
prominently In accidents of all
types, and that these accidents were
being blamed on other prime causes,
such as speed, failing to give way
to the vehicle on the right, and
so on.
Again, commenting on a
Saturday night’s experience on
the roads, when in 12 accidents
observed all drivers involved
had been drinking to some
extent: “One drunken taxi-
driver had to be carried in and
out of casualty for his blood-
test —he was paralytic.”
After stating that the situa-
tion had reached the stage
where doctors, nurses and
orderlies at hospital casualties
were pleading with him to do
something about the drunk-
driver problem, Dr. Birrell
states:
I can only tell them that when
the community, including the magis-
trates, justices and the police,
realise that traffic offences are
crimes and treat them as crimes
rather than as childish pranks,
things may then improve.
Dr. Birrell also comments
that one of the biggest obstacles
towards solving the problem of
drunken driving had been the
lack of uniform blood-tests —
the voluntary test, he believes,
is unfair. Most thinking citi-
zens, who set high value on
road-safety for themselves and
their children, will agree with
him. Compulsory tests may be
regarded as an encroachment
upon personal liberty; the
point is that there is no satis-
factory alternative. —D. J. G.
(Vic.).
In a recent news-broadcast
I heard some staggering figures
regarding drunken drivers,
coupled with the comments of
Dr. Birrell, the Victorian
police-surgeon. Next morning I
searched my daily newspaper
for the report, but it wasn’t
there. Is this “booze-on-the-
roads” problem and the vested
interests connected therewith
becoming so “hot” that we are
afraid to ventilate it?
I live in a Victorian seaside
town where, every Saturday
night, hundreds of cars bearing
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 511
Across
I—Out-of-date1 —Out-of-date way to get about the U.S. cent’s current
Australian value? (5-8)
8— A doting mother turned in a royally-conferred honor. (5)
9 No pet can cable. (3-10)
12 — A rock-splitter has a boxing match with a flighty
character. (8)
13 — Arts affected by a ruler. (4)
15 —Your weight won’t register without such copper and
tin hotels in ruins. (5-2-3-4)
18 and 22—Entirely fit fanfare or
fluting—and Bobby, who enter-
tains Australians. (5, 2,4, 3,4)
24—Showing a seat to us, before he
comes to a Bayreuth entertain-
ment. (8)
27 —Copper which cannot be used for
a penny slot—it’s not a happy
one. (10, 3)
29 — Angel hiding to gather fallen
grain after the harvest. (5)
30 — Carats put back hair on top-
billing performers. (4, 9)
Down
1— Writer to run away to marry the
wife who remained loyal to
Ulysses. (8)
2 Horse seen in the midday
figure. (7)
3 Bitter grace is broken. (5)
4 Down the mine. (4)
5 Nothing but the French version
of an African river. (3)
6 Horses which are really trying to
damage the gorse. (5)
7 Ordained before an American
horseman. (6)
10 — A bounder kicking the bucket
working on the links. (8)
11 — Very takes tea first —badly hurt
later. (5)
14—A sun and moon shape I lead
on a South American city. (8)
16 — Not up in weight. (3)
17— Trouble with the back of the
nose guardian of the Red Sea
taint is contradicted. (8)
19 — Its cane is cut by a class of six-
footers. (7)
20— Bell-ringing one who is very, very
good to us. (7)
21 — Cast off a bog. (6)
. 23—Behaves dully and fretfully when
poems are edited. (5)
25 — Insect takes them to the Metro-
politan Opera. (5)
26 You and Ellen getting a bone. (4)
28—Nothing at grain. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 510


7s i&SBSmx
mm
The Conway Stewart
i No. 15 at 29/6
k No. 12 at 35/-
No. 76 at 60/-
R
14 carat L/o
Every Conway Stewart Pee is
fitted with a genuine
14 carat gold nib.
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
fully guaranteed.
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
excellent value.
Ask your Retailer
he knows.
The No. 85L
42 7 6
cotfW'&WsT£Wmr, & London i
“ Let's understand each other—no one sits on me!”
so-called bona-fide travellers
arrive for the revels at the
different pubs. On other week-
nights the pubs are dark as the
tomb. It’s funny how every-
body travels on Saturday nights
only. The revels, by the way,
are a little dancing and view-
ing TV. Sounds very harmless
—as indeed those amusements
are—but of course the main
attraction is sitting round
getting sozzled.
At the tick of midnight the
company is ejected with much
yahooing, and screams from
the ladies, on to the Queen’s
highway, there to find their
divers ways home, if they can
—some cannot even find their
own cars. It is not at this
moment of ejection that the
police arrive with their little
books. That comes later,
usually after the accident has
occurred.
Long ago, at the time of the
Sunday Trading Referendum,
the Bolte Government, or some
of its members, announced that
the matter of extending the
20-mile limit would be looked
into. They are still looking,
a nd, in that connection, any
Monday-morning paper should
interest them. The heading is
‘Weekend Accidents,” in case
they don’t know where to look.
The whole thing would be
farcical if it were not so tragic.
If one wants a drink at a pub
after hours, then the operative
clause is, “Get the car out and
drive 20 miles and have as
much as you want. Otherwise
go thirsty.” What greater con-
tribution to road - accidents
could be made? The man who
lives opposite such a pub
cannot get a drink when all he
has to do is walk across the
road. But the man who arrives
in a car can, as I said, get all
he wants. — John Barleycorn,
Retd. (Vic.).
Munich
“Suburbia’s” defence of
Chamberlain (B. 15/10/’SS)
was marred by the claim that
King Leopold of the Belgians
“ratted” on his allies by the
manner of his surrender to the
Germans. At the time Sir
Roger Keyes, who was British
naval attache with the Belgian
Army, and the American
Ambassador to Belgium
defended the King’s conduct.
Sir Roger conducted a success-
ful libel action in the British
courts on behalf of himself
and the King against an
English newspaper. King
Leopold is, today, Colonel-in-
Chief of one of the most
historic regiments in the British
Army, an office no betrayer of
Britain would be permitted to
retain. — Cunedda (N.S.W.).
School Uniforms
Of course school-uniforms
have much to recommend them
(B. 22/10/ ’5B), particularly in
fostering pride in the school
and good behavior.
In Victoria, particularly
during the last four or five
years, the question of dress has
received a good deal of atten-
tion from headmasters and
parents’ committees. In our
district, both high-schools and
primary schools have adopted
attractive uniforms and school-
badges ; there has been little
or no opposition on the score
of expense or on other grounds.
Uniforms are not compul-
sory, but most parents have
made the effort to obtain them
for their children as soon as
practicable, and the results have
included a marked improve-
ment in the bearing and con-
duct of the scholars concerned.
I don’t know what Major
Raven Hart’s objection to
school-uniforms or badges can
be founded upon ; certainly
there is nothing in “the Aus-
tralian social atmosphere”
which finds uniforms
obnoxious. And the average
Australian schoolchild, far
from resenting school-uniforms,
is inclined to give his parents
no rest until he is equipped with
the full regalia like his mates.
As for the alternative —
widely practised in America —
of allowing children of any
age to dress entirely as they
please in school-hours, most
teachers will agree that that is
carrying individualism too far
for good discipline.— Doynest
(Vic.).
In my boyhood 45 years
ago I attended a G.P. School
(only G.P.S. students wore
colors and badges in those
days), and our school-hatband
was attached with sewn-in
hooks around the normal band.
When we contemplated any
escapade in public we removed
the school-hatband and tie —
fair enough proof that the
child mind regards the school-
colors as a dead give-away in
the event of trouble.
Wearing the colors and
badge of school or institution
does encourage pride in that
institution, and the general
adoption of uniform and colors
by State schools in N.S.W. has
removed the animosity once
noticeable between G.P.S. and
State schoolchildren in public.
It is worth noting that
originally the wearing of
school - uniforms encouraged
the reverse of pride in children.
Back in the Middle Ages the
first recorded and only child-
ren to wear uniforms were
those from poor-houses or
poor-schools of correction—in
short, they were badges of
misfortune or disgrace.
P. O. M. C. (N.S.W.).


!
Royal Jelly
:
:
DIRECT FROM THE BEES
30 Capsules 50 m.g.m. £5 5 0
30 Capsules 30 m.g.m. £3 15 0
Face Cream .. £1 17 6:
i
Post Free. Free Leaflet. :
REX PEACOCK
Apiarist,
: BOX 1818, KEKANG, VIC.
'■N
Z. INQUIRIES WELCOME
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
ON TRAINING COWS AND OTHER ANIMALS
By W. G. WHITTLESTONE
Tn an earlier article I men-
tioned briefly the “con-
ditioning” or training of cows.
Several people have asked me
a lot of questions about con-
ditioning, so I think it is worth
while to discuss this most
interesting subject at greater
length.
We often use the term
“conditioned reflex” or some
such phrase without clearly
understanding its meaning.
The other day I was walking
down the main street of an
unfamiliar town with a friend
who suddenly said he felt
thirsty. So we looked around
for a pub, only to discover that
we had just passed one without
consciously noticing it. My
friend commented, “Looks as
if I’ve developed a bar reflex!”
Well, I’m not sure about his
case, but it is quite possible
that as a result of always going
to a pub to quench one’s thirst
one might feel thirsty on see-
ing a pub, without, as it were,
being conscious of the fact.
On properties where
sheep have been
attacked by “scabby
mouth” each fresh
drop of lambs should
be vaccinated be-
tween marking and
weaning by a special
vaccine recom-
mended by Govern-
ment veterinarians.
Marking should, of
course, be carried out
by using Elastrator
Rubber Rings.
The simplest kind of con-
ditioning is the sort Pavlov
used on his dogs many years
ago. By ringing a bell every
time he fed his dogs he found
that quite soon they salivated
when the bell was sounded.
By devising an ingenious gad-
get for measuring saliva he was
able to measure the response
of the dogs and so get exact
answers to his questions. Some
of the answers are quite amaz-
ing.
Let us take a look at the
bell-ringing experiment. If we
take a dog that has learned
to associate the bell with food
and then ring the bell without
feeding him he quickly loses
the response, and saliva no
longer flows to the ringing of
the bell.
Now let us introduce
a new stimulus; a light is
flashed before the bell is rung.
The result is that saliva flows
again to the sound of the bell!
What has happened is that the
reflex producing saliva to the
bell sound has been inhibited by
not being backed-up or “rein-
forced” by feeding, but it has
not been lost. It is still there
in the dog’s brain. When the
new stimulus of the light comes
along it inhibits the inhibition
and the reflex reappears!
Generally an unusual stimu-
lus produces an inhibition. For
example, in the case of the dog
that has been conditioned to
a bell before food, the intro-
duction of the flashing light
will inhibit the reflex, and
saliva doesn’t flow to the bell.
But, as we have seen, if the
reflex has been inhibited by not
feeding when the bell rings and
the light is flashed, the inhibi-
tion is inhibited. I suppose
with luck one might inhibit the
inhibition of an inhibition —
though I think by then the
poor dog would have given-up
learning.
Talking about giving-up
learning in difficult circum-
stances, there are some valu-
able experiments to show what
can happen to an animal that
has been asked to do too much.
It is possible to train a dog
by feeding after the stimuli to
salivate only when the notes
C, G and C an octave up are
sounded on the piano. It will
be found that if the notes are
sounded in the wrong order,
or only two are sounded, the
saliva will only flow slowly or
not at all. Now suppose we
condition the dog to salivate
for C, G and C, but not for
C, A and C. And then we
make G a little bit sharp so
that it sounds more like A.
“You sure you’ve done some gardening before ?”
Finally a point will be reached
when the dog can’t tell the
difference. He will probably
have a complete nervous break-
down, becoming listless and
incapable of learning anything.
Another spectacular example
of a breakdown occurs in cats
which have learned to press a
particular lever in order to get
a piece of meat. If the
apparatus is set so that, instead
of the meat, the cat is greeted
with a blast of air, the animal
will break down. The same
happens in the case of a dog
which has become conditioned
to a particular set of events
before he is fed. The intro-
duction of a very strong stimu-
lus such as the sounding of a
loud bell will make the animal
collapse. I have seen a movie
of this experiment in which the
dog becomes unconscious and
remains in a fixed position.
When the limbs were moved
about they just stayed where
they were put —the dog no
longer had any control. An
animal so treated may take
years to recover fully from
the damage.
Professor Liddell, of Cornell
University, tells of some of the
unexpected things that hap-
pened to his sheep when sub-
jected to training which pro-
duced stress. Instead of the
saliva reflex, Liddell used an
“avoidance” reflex. A piece
of metal connected to a wire
was fitted to the front fore-
leg just above the foot. The
stimulus, instead of being the
food in the mouth, was a tiny
electric shock applied to the
leg via the piece of metal. One
subject, a ram, was trained to
expect a shock on the eleventh
beat of a metronome going at
one beat a second. He was
then trained to expect no shock
when the metronome was at
two beats a second. Finally
the metronome rate for no
shock was brought down by
steps to 72 beats a minute,
which is just over one each
second. The poor old ram
was really upset by the effort
required to make the judg-
ment as to whether he was
about to get a shock or not.
It was the no-shock experi-
ment that was bad for him;
the uncertainty of getting a


1
mmi
Easy to use and
simple to operate.
Is draughtproof and
can be used in or out
of doors. Has com-
plete heat control
from silk to serge.
• 4 hours easy ironing
on only £ pint of
kerosene.
• No wires —• no flexes
• Take it anywhere I
• Cannot spill!
• 100% British Made
too I
Obtainable fram all Good Hardware Stores throughout Australia
In case of difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to.
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
shock. The effect of all this
was to make the ram submis-
sive and quite unramlike. He
showed no belligerence or
aggressiveness and, even more
interesting, lost his interest in
ewes —a truly calamitous state
of affairs. It is sad to report
that poor old Robert, as this
ram was called, remained in
this sorry state until he passed
on to what one can only hope
was a happier world.
It is tempting to go on talk-
ing about Prof. Liddell’s
experiments, but there isn't
time. There is only one experi-
ment to which I would like to
refer before we try to inter-
pret the results in terms of life
on the dairyfarm. The experi-
ment was carried out on two
goat kids 10 days old. One
was separated from its mother
and other twin and put in a
room with an electric light
which could be dimmed. The
other kid was left with its
mother in a similar room.
Both were subjected to identi-
cal treatment in which the light
was dimmed for 20 seconds
followed by an electric shock.
This was repeated 20 times.
Both kids were seen to start
reacting to the shock but to
become quieter as the test went
on. Finally both lay on the
floor with the head pressing
against it. After 45 minutes,
during which the kids were
resting peacefully, both were
interrupted by a loud clap.
The kid with the mother raised
its head and pricked-up its ears
as any normal animal would.
The other just took no notice.
Only after another 45 minutes
did it show any sign of notic-
ing the clap when it was
repeated. It was suffering from
“nervous prostration.” The
strain of the experiment was
just too much for it when it
was by itself. On the other
hand, the kid with its mother
was quite normal and none the
worse for the experience.
Later experiments have
shown that kids subjected to
difficult experiments of this
kind alone will die young,
while those accompanied by
their mothers are quite
normal. The lonely little
animal subjected to stresses
it cannot take is permanently
damaged mentally, and this is
reflected in its health. Cases
are known of bull calves of
magnificent pedigree which
have been useless for breeding
because of mental disturbances
presumably caused by some
unfortunate event in calfhood.
Llnfortunately, work of this
kind has not been done to any
extent on cows. However, the
rules probably apply to a fair
degree. One thing we dairy-
men must remember is never
hustle a cow when she is learn-
ing something new. If, for
example, she is to be milked
in a new shed, let her sniff the
place over at her leisure.
Don't be worried if one milk-
ing fakes much too long. If
you’ve built a new shed it is
a good idea to let the cows
wander through it in the after-
noon before milking, so that
they are familiar with it before
they have to be milked in it.
Cows are slow learners, but
it is well worth the effort to get
them to co-operate. If they
are pushed into learning too
fast many may react with poor
let-down at milking-time.
If you have been hand-
stripping your cows and are
fed-up with it, don’t stop
stripping suddenly and blame
the cows for coming in at the
next milking with udders too
full for comfort. Kid them
they are being stripped by
massaging the udders with the
machines still on for a few
milkings ; while making sure of
giving them really good stimu-
lation at the start. After a few
milkings they will learn to
accept the new system. If at
first some fail to milk right
out, don’t be discouraged—
some cows are slower at learn-
ing than others.
Don’t encourage cows to
always go into the same bails.
Once they’ve got into the
habit it is difficult to make
changes ; they will just as
happily go anywhere in the
shed. Always let the leading
cows come into the shed first.
There is a social hierarchy in
the herd, and it is bad psycho-
logy to force the lower cows
in ahead of their superiors at
milking-time. Cows will nor-
mally sort themselves out on
the way to the shed from the
paddock,-and there is usually
no doubt as to which should
be milked first from the herd’s
point of view. If milking is
carried out with a minimum
burden on the cows they will
come to enjoy it and to co-
operate quietly and * regularly
in everything you want them
to do.
We know little about the
effect of treatment on young
calves. Calves to be reared as
replacements should have the
kindest possible treatment and
never be subjected to stresses,
particularly when away from
their mothers. I often wonder
how many cows are spoiled
because as calves they had
been badly treated after they
were separated from their
dams. Prof. Liddell’s experi-
ments show how very import-
ant it is to be specially kind
to a calf when she has lost
her mother, as most do in our
systems of rearing.
There is much to be learned
about calf behavior; I hope
that someone will become
interested in this field and will
study calves as Prof. LiddelL
has studied lambs and kids.
Planned Feed
“Barry”: Stockmen appre-
ciate that several kinds of
fodder can be used at various
times as supplements to each
other.
For instance, dry summer-
feed can be supplemented by
forage crops and short-term
silage, which will tide things
over into the early winter.
Then autumn-saved pasture
and crops, such as oats or hay,
rather than silage, will supple-
ment the short swards.
Even in spring, roughage is
useful to balance the ration
and to prevent such troubles
as pulpy kidney and bloat.
At the same time,'pit-silage
and well-protected hay and
grain can be kept on hand for
an emergency such as drought,
fire or flood.
Lamb Losses
“Billjim”: Although it’s
impossible to eliminate lamb
losses, they can at least be
reduced once their causes have
been determined.
Investigations at Rutherglen
(Vic.) Research Station show
that well-balanced feeding for
both ewes and lambs, varying
with their need and the season,
is necessary for higher
weaning-percentages.
It is possible (the researchers
found) that some lambs lost
through difficult lambings
might be saved by more fre-
quent inspection of flocks;
this is uneconomic with large
flocks, but is possible with


!*£**r/
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
0
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
0
Offices:
SYDNEY MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,*-
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
smaller numbers and with
stud-animals.
Another cause is defective
milk-supply, often a result of
mastitis. Losses here can be
reduced by careful culling of
ewes with defective udders or
blind teats, and also those
suffering from shearing-cuts in
a vital spot.
Losses due to bad weather
were found to be low. This
was interesting because in four
of the seven years covered by
the trials winters were very wet
and cold. The conclusion
reached was that lambs of nor-
mal vigor were practically
unaffected by inclement
weather, provided they suckled
their mothers soon after birth.
The problem of desertion is
important and difficult. Little
can be done about those lambs
which are born too weak to
stand or suckle. The investi-
gators advocate a trial of the
well-known methods of foster-
ing lambs, but they consider
that small and well-pastured
paddocks are the answer,
because a ewe will leave her
lamb behind if she has to travel
long distances to a food-supply.
The lamb is then a tempting
target for crows, foxes and
dogs.
Marking - losses can be
serious when the weather is
bad. Lambs should always be
marked with the knife and
clamp in temporary yards in
the corner of the flock-
paddocks, and the operation
should be done as aseptically
as possible.
Disease and infection, it was
found, account for a minor
percentage of deaths, and little
can be done once an infection
is present; hence prevention,
by clean and careful marking
and good flock-management, is
the best answer.
Other diseases, such as
worms, may be reduced by
careful control of feeding, so
that adequate nutrition is
available during the pre-natal
period, either as paddock-feed
or by the provision of supple-
mentary feed where necessary.
Strawberry-clover
“Sundowner”: Pure seed of
South Australia’s most pro-
ductive pasture-plant, Palestine
strawberry - clover, will this
season be available, for the first
time, the Department of Agri-
culture having produced pedi-
greed seed at Kybybolite
Research Station from which
1000 acres of “mother” seed
are to be grown by farmers in
the south-east and Murray
River districts.
This clover has an amazing
capacity to withstand flooding,
saline soils and drought. The
seed was discovered by a South
African soldier near the Dead
Sea during World War I and
was subsequently tested at Salis-
bury Experimental Station,
Southern Rhodesia. From
there it was first brought to
S.A. in 1930.
Summer Fodder Crops
“Big Billy” : Summer fodder-
crops can be grown even in dry
seasons if you select a paddock
of reasonable fertility, prepare
the seed-bed carefully and stick
to recommended seeding-rates.
One acre of irrigated chou
moellier will feed nine cows
or from 20 to 25 lambs ; 40
acres will satisfy 500 weaners ;
40 acres of turnips is enough
for 300 sheep; 40 acres of
millet or rape will feed 500
lambs.
These figures are only a
guide ; the final answer will
depend on location of property,
when feed is required (more
will be needed, for instance,
during summer than after the
break in the season), annual
rainfall and time it falls, and
the chance of summer rains.
No crop except turnips nor-
mally succeeds on poor
ground. Best choice is an area
in which the pasture needs
renovating. The land should
be ploughed in late winter or
early spring, while the soil is
still moist. Loose soils should
be compacted by rolling before
the final harrowing.
Seeding must be done by
about the end of spring.
Chou moellier and turnips, in
particular, have good drought-
resistance if their roots are
given a chance to reach the
moist subsoil before the sum-
mer heat closes in. Seed should
be placed in the top half-inch
of soil by using light harrows
dragged behind the drill. Mix
the seed with the super., and
don’t delay seeding after this
mixing.
Seeding-rates should be:
chou moellier, Hlb. to 21b. per
acre ; turnips, Boz. to lOoz. per
acre; rape, lib. to Hlb.
per acre ; millet, 81b. to
101 b per acre.
A week after sowing, spray
with 4f1.-oz. 25 per cent.
D.D.T. and lfl.-oz. 50 per cent,
malathion in water per acre. If
there is no lucerne-flea in the
crop and mite is the only
trouble, topdress with 2oz.
lindane in super, per acre.
For cutworms (if the plants
have been nipped or partly
eaten, they’re the likely
culprits) spray with 16f1.-oz.
per acre of 25 per cent. D.D.T.
for small worms or 3 pints per
acre for big worms.
For "Steely Wool*'
“C.A.A.”: “Steely wool,”
result of a lack of copper,
occurs on the southern and
south-western coastline of Aus-
tralia and in many pastoral
areas of S.A. Topdressing with
71b. of copper-sulphate per
acre can prevent the trouble for
a period of seven years ; but in
seriously deficient soils as much
as lOib. of the chemical may be
needed.
As a drench, use Boz. of
copper-sulphate to a gallon of
water. A dose of 20c.c.. is
enough for an adult sheep for
a month ; half this quantity for
sheep from four to 12 months
old and a quarter of the adult
dose for lambs under four
months.
Licks of copper and salt (Boz.
for 1000 sheep) can also be
made. Prepare them weekly to
avoid the danger of poisoning.
Fruit Flyer
“Wilsto”: The Victorian
Railways’ freight-express, which
recently landed vegetables in
Melbourne within 14 hours of
their being dug near Mildura,
holds out hope to those who
have suffered delays in market-
ing produce by rail. It can’t
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(22/10/’58)
Moderate rains are indicated on the Queensland coast
from Rockhampton southwards during November, although
the remainder of the State may expect only light to
moderate patchy rains. Good general rains should come in
December.
In N.S.W. the coast, tablelands and n.-w. slopes and
plains areas may expect moderate rains in November,
although rainfall is likely to be patchy elsewhere, with good
general rains in December. The same areas will probably
receive moderate to good rains during January, with good
general rains in February.
The southern half of Victoria may expect reasonably
good rains during November, although the Mallee and
Wimmera will probably receive only light to moderate
patchy rains, with general rains in December.
Light rain is indicated in the central districts and south-
east areas of South Australia during November, although
rainfall may be poor in the remainder of the State. How-
ever, there should be good general rains during December.
Rainfall may be poor in Western Australia during
November, although moderate rains are likely in the North
Kimberleys. The Kimberleys, south-eastern districts, Eucla
and part of the s.-w. agricultural areas should receive good
rains in December.
LENNOX WALKER.


tea
m
mm
m
tji
i
r
.
I
uJ
m
■m
'•./SsSSfe.
prices from
£BB5
PLUS TAX
AT NEW LOW PRICES . . .
Holden goes further ahead
in value for money
Every year since 1951 more people have bought Holden than any other car because Holden
has been by far the best value for money. Now following the recent price reductions
announced by GMH Holden offers you even greater value. Before buying a new car or
station sedan let’s demonstrate how you will get more for your money in Holden.
More for your money in driving pleasure.
Holden gives you all the smoothness and
power of a six cylinder engine at lowest cost.
And recent improvements have made
Holden’s 72 gross b.h.p. engine run more
sweetly than ever. Holden gives you
splendid ease of handling, too, with a tight
36.1 feet turning circle and recirculating
ball-bearing steering.
More for your money in comfort. Holden
is the lowest priced six passenger car that
you can buy and there’s a huge amount of
space for luggage. You have excellent
visibility all round with a big curved wind-
shield and rear window. The front seat can
be Sdjusted to suit you.
More for your money in styling. You see
more beauty outside in smoothly flowing
lines — open the door and you see more
beauty inside. In Holden Special, you’ll
find luxurious, Elascofab upholstery.
Better overall economy. Holden saves you
money with thrifty petrol consumption,
and dependable performance. Low cost
parts are available everywhere.
JL
. HOLDEN
AUSTRALIA’S OWN CAR
From £BB5 plus Tax.
AUSTRALIA’S OWN STATION SEDAN
From £960 plus Tax.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE . PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia
X 156
compete with the farm-to-sale-
floor service of motor-tran-
sport, of course, but at least it’s
much better than the old time-
table.
If this is possible for fruit
and vegetables, what about
organising better lamb-trains,
too? Under the present system,
some Victorian lambs spend
30 hours in trucks before go-
ing under the hammer. Quality
lost in this way reflects not
only on producers but also on
our general ability to compete
against such exporting coun-
tries as New Zealand, where
paddock-to-market transport
is no problem.
If the time of Victorian
journeys could be cut in half,
and if hazards like too much
shunting and long periods in
the sun could be reduced, there
would be a remarkable
improvement in quality. Since
nearly all passenger-traffic is by
daylight, night-travel on clear
lines should be possible over
rnost of the State.
Teeaager
“Batter” : A “mixed-up teen-
ager” of the lamb-flock is cer-
tainly the youngster that has
nearly finished with its
mother's milk. It often remains
that way until well into the
two-tooth stage. Although
suckers generally finish well
enough on improved pasture
under dry conditions they.
seem to reach a crisis on many
irrigated swards at about 601 b.
to 701 b. liveweight. At this
stage many refuse to gain
weight fast enough to be
finished for market.
Researchers are on the trail
of many clues (including the
possibility of cobalt-deficiency)
to the cause of this unthrifti-
ness. Results to date are not
promising, except in known
cobalt - deficient areas, but
further tests should find the
answer to this riddle.
The position is clearer with
the weaner apparently too
stupid to help himself. Put
him into a newly-harvested
cereal-stubble and he will
spend his time walking round
the edges instead of probing
the centre for food. The
weaner-mob needs a few older
sheep to show it the way.
More disturbing is the
weaner that refuses to gain
weight under good conditions.
He may even scour badly and
then starve himself to death.
Planned drenching and hand-
feeding show promise of over-
coming this trouble in well-
managed flocks.
Paspalum Distichum
“Myall”: Graziers and
dairyfarmers with swampy
ground or morasses on their
properties would do well to
plant Paspalum distichum and
turn their wastelands into
valuable pasturage. A peren-
nial, commonly known as
water-couch, knot-grass and
joint-grass, it’s a true paspalum.
Native of N.S.W., it’s now
found in most States. Under
moist, warm conditions it
grows rapidly, it's drought-
resistant, and also is excellent
for planting on the banks of
creeks and dams or anywhere
soil-erosion is likely. Its long,
strong runners form a thick
mat to bind the soil, and it
thrives in salty marshes and
sandy soil, too.
The grass stands heavy stock-
ing, and makes excellent
fodder for both fattening and
milk - production, very palat-
able to all classes of stock. It
does not, however, make a
good hay, as it turns black on
drying.
Seed of this valuable grass
is not procurable, but it is easily
propagated by “heeling-in”
rooted runners along the edges
of swamps, creeks and low-
lying depressions. Space them
several feet apart, as the grass
will soon cover the ground.
Spring is the best time for this.
The chief drawback is that
if Paspalum distichum is not
strictly controlled, it may
become a bad weed in cultiva-
tion, because its strong root-
ing-system makes it difficult to
eradicate.


CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1806 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
iV.S.fT. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
Divorce Notices
TO REIDAR EIULF BETTUM KLE-
METSEN of address unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARIANNE KLEMETSEN
has commenced proceedings in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia
for dissolution of her marriage to you
on the grounds that you have lived
separate and apart for a continuous
period of five years immediately pre-
ceding the commencement of such pro-
ceedings If you desire to defend such
proceedings you must file your defence
in the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia within 40 clear days from the
date of this publication In default of
your so doing the case may proceed and
the Court will pronounce judgment and
make orders against you in your
absence. DATED the 27 th day of
October, 1958. —E. LAWSON TURN-
BULL, Deputy Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM MERRILL late of Dul-
wich HiII.—TAKE NOTICE that
SHIRLEY HESTER MERRILL has filed
Petition No. 1820 of 1958 for Divorce
on the grounds of desertion during three
years and upwards without just cause
or excuse If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 7th January 1959
and obtain a copy, of the Petition with-
out charge from J. C. PAYNTER, Soli-
citor, of 107 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGH AN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—Is Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ERIC VICTOR ROBERTSON late
of St. Peters.—TAKE NOTICE that
ALMA MARGARET ROBERTSON has
filed her Petition for Divorce No. 2GOO
of 1958 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you intend to
•defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by the 7th of January 1959 and obtain
a copv of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. N. D. THOMAS, ANDER-
SON & HEAVENER, Solicitors, 51
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
BALD PATCHES
Hair grown secret formula
Sacred Eastern Oils. Rarely
fails. Treats Alopecia. Leading
broadcaster's hair grown after
years of Baldness. Effective
treatment for dandruff (Basic
cause of nearly all hair sick-
ness). and stops falling hair.
My herbal treatment restores
grey hair to original colour.
Not a dye—not injurious, not
obvious Names given of lead-
ing citizens (with their per-
mission) who gratefully testify
My treatment used in privacy
of your home.
For free advice write—
MRS. A. EASTON,
Box 5204, G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copies of Sydney “Daily Tele-
graph” for September 25, October 9
and October 16, 1954; copy of
Peck’s Bad 80y— 6759. *
Information Sought
How to preserve raw prawns for
bait ?
The following is good for a
quantity of about lib. prawns,
which must be fresh: Remove
heads and rinse well in fresh water.
Put into a container one dessert-
spoonful of formalin and two pints
of water. Put the prawns into this
mixture, allowing to soak for about
two hours. Remove the prawns and
lay them on a perforated tray or
double layer of absorbent cloth or
hessian to drain thoroughly. Place
one layer of prawns on the bottom
of an earthenware jar or glass
container with screw-top, so as to
make airtight. On top of prawns
add a layer of the following mix-
ture : 2oz. of coarse butcher’s-salt,
one level dessertspoonful of boracic-
acid and loz. of sugar. Add
another layer of prawns, then a
layer of the mixture, and so on
until jar is full. Invert the jar
occasionally, as this keeps ■ the
prawns moist with the liquid which
forms.
* * * *
(1) What is ambergris like ? (2)
To whom should it be submitted
for identification ?
(1) Ambergris varies from a soft,
black, pitch-like substance through
stages of dark and light brown to
grey and almost white —the last is
of the best quality. All ambergris
has a musty odor, and all varieties
are soft enough to retain the
impression of a fingernail. The
harder brown-to-white specimens,
when broken or cut with a knife,
have a more-or-less mottled appear-
ance, showing small white spots.
In some cases the material is built-
up of layers of laminae.
A piece of ambergris immediately
becomes liquid when placed in boil-
ing water, the dissolved substance
floating. When penetrated with
wire or a needle which has been
heated in a flame a black liquid
is formed round the puncture which,
during cooling, assumes a pitch-like
stickiness. Ambergris more closely
resembles a plastic substance than
a hard wax or fat. Finds vary
from large pieces weighing lcwt. to
small bits a fraction of an ounce
in weight, but the former are very
rare. Beach-sand adheres to some
specimens, but when it is removed
the characteristic properties are
apparent.
(2) Sydney .Technological
Museum, Harris Street, Sydney.
* * * *
If there are 52 weeks in a year,
7 days in a week, how come there
are 365 days in a year ?
Putting it as simply as possible,
there are more than 365 days in a
year ; this discrepancy is adjusted
by adding an extra day in leap-
years, in the month of February
(the leap-years occur at every fourth
year). The question of the calendar
has occupied mathematicians for
ages, and there is still not complete
agreement on it between the nations.
Rearrangements have taken place at
various dates in history; there’s
talk at present of trying to make
a better calendar. Visit a public
library; you’ll find fuller informa-
tion in any good encyclopaedia.
* * * *
Where were the first chain-stores
in the world ?
According to The Chain Store
Problem, by Beckman and Nolen,
the chain idea of distribution is of
ancient origin. Greek, Roman and
Chinese records “indicate the exist-
ence of central ownership and
management of retail establishments
in the heyday of their respective
civilisations. A poster found in
Pompeii advertised for lease a cer-
tain property which consisted of 900
retail shops.” The famous bank-
ing Fugger family, of Germany,
owned and operated in the Middle
Ages an industrial and commercial
organisation which resembled to an
extent a present-day chain, while
as early as 1643 the Mitsuis, of
Japan, started a chain system of
apothecary shops. The Hudson’s
Bay Company began to establish
trading-posts before 1750, and soon
had a chain of such posts all over
the Canadian north-west. How-
ever, the credit for founding the
first large chain of stores on the
modern pattern is usually given to
George H. Hartford, founder of
what was later named the Great
Atlantic and Pacific Tea Co.; the
first store of this chain was opened
in the U.S.A. in 1858. The second
important chain to begin was the
Jones Tea Co. (1872), while the
F. W. Woolworth Co. began in
1879, United Cigar Stores Co. in
1900 and J. C. Penney Co. in 1902
(all in the U.S.A.).
* * * *
Any information on the study
course for the Diploma of Hospital
A dministration ?
These positions are often filled by
retired or semi-retired medical men,
or by men who have worked their
way up on the staff of each hospital
concerned. Some begin young
(e.g., as storemen), and learn every
branch of the work entailed in the
running of a hospital. A know-
ledge of accountancy is needed, as
well as wide experience in the pur-
chase of all supplies, such as food,
medicines, apparatus, ward furnish-
ings and fixtures; the administrator
also has to know how to manage
staff, to work with doctors and to
please patients. It may take years
ol practical work to acquire all this
knowledge, and there is then the
question of seniority, with the risk
of being passed over. Unable to
recommend any course which would
fit you by study alone for this work.
Best to ask at some hospital, or
arrange for a friend to visit, the
offices of some Australian hospitals
and make inquiries.
* * * *
(1) When and how did the Cross
of Lorraine (Croix de Lorraine )
originate ? (2) Exact dimensions, if
possible ?
(1) In church heraldry it is a
patriarchal cross and probably
received its name and associations
when Henry the Black, a Roman
Emperor who was territorially
closely connected with Lorraine,
was (about a.d. 1046) promoted to
be a patriarch— -i.e., an elector of
the Pope—and chose it as the
emblem of his office. Later, in the
days of the Huguenots in France,
it became the emblem of the High
Catholic Holy League, which Henry
of Guise founded and which Henry
111 hamstrung by seizing its head-
ship. It was because the author
of the league had been the Cardinal
of Lorraine that its cross was
adopted and had the name of
Lorraine firmly attached to it. It is
now chiefly known as the emblem
of the international association for
the wiping-out of tuberculosis. (2)
No exact dimensions, save that to
be correct heraldically the lower
fess or bar should be slightly longer
than the higher one, and all the
“limbs,” horizontal or perpendicu-
lar, should be either a third or a
fifth of the width of the shield on
which they are blazoned.
* * * *
Some information on the Liberal
Government’s attempts to ban the
Communist party ?
In furtherance of its 1949 elec-
tion pledge to destroy the influence
of the Communist party in Aus-
tralia, the Menzies Government,
early in -1950, introduced the Com-
“munist Party Dissolution Act.
Chifley, Evatt and most of the
Parliamentary Labor party, except
for the Right-wing, opposed it in
the House, but the Federal Execu-
tive of the party then decided that
the legislation should be allowed to
pass. The bill was passed through
the House of Reps, in Sept., 1950,
and went through the Senate, where
Labor could have defeated it, in
October, 1950. Immediately the
legislation was passed by Parlia-
ment, it was challenged in the courts
by certain unions. Dr. Evatt, with
Chifley’s approval but in the face
of opposition from Labor’s Right-
wing, accepted a brief to appear for
the Waterside Workers’ Union. The
matter came before the High Court,
and later before the Privy Council,
and the Act was declared invalid.
The Government then sought to
obtain by referendum the wider
Constitutional powers which would
have made the Act legal. Labor
opposed the referendum, still in the


This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
TIMBER MERCHANTS
SAW MILLERS
acceptable on each export
market.
The Future
TVfo new-model Holden is
planned for the near
future, and for the present it is
not intended to give the Holden
an automatic transmission.
Asked at a press-conference
on October 22 as to whether it
was intended to reduce the
price of the Holden, Mr. Earl
C. Daum, pointed out that a
reduction in price has just taken
place, and that the price of the
Holden (before sales-tax) was
£675 in 1948, whereas the price
(before tax) of the present
Holden —a much better car —
was only £BB5, in spite of the
fact that the cost-of-living index
(and wages) had more than
doubled in the same time.
The popular station-sedan is
basically more expensive to
produce than the regular sedan
—it is heavier, and has more
glass in it —and it is unlikely to
be sold as cheaply as the ordi-
nary car even if production rose
to equal that of the other
vehicle.
face of Right-wing opposition,
referendum was held on Sept. 22,
1951, and the proposals rejected.
Three States (N.S.W., Victoria and
S.A.) voted No. and the overall No
majority was 2,370,009 to 2,317,927.
However, 68 electorates gave a
majority for Yes, and 53 for No:
only in N.S.W. did a majority of
electorates vote No. •
(1) Method of tanning a kanga-
roo-skin ? I want to convert it to
a mat. (2) How to remove fur to
make leather ?
(1) Scrape off all flesh and fat,
and trim the edges. Soak in salt-
water, using 41b. salt to every 2gals.
water; leave fo>r 24hrs. Make the
tan by pouring five or six quarts
boiling-water on to 2qts. bran,
allowing to cool a little before
straining. Make an equal quantity
of ■ salt-water by adding to blood-
warm water as much salt as it will
dissolve. Mix the bran-water and
salt-water together, and when not
more than lukewarm add loz.
sulphuric-acid. Immerse the skin in
this for 20min., stirring constantly.
Rinse in clear water and dry in a
shady place. Pull and stretch while
drying, and rub-in a little neats-
foot-oil if the skin seems hard.
Brush the fur when dry and trim
edges.
(2) Soak the skin in clean water
for 4hrs., run-off the water and
soak again for 24hrs. in clean water.
Remove the fur by soaking in milk-
of-lime, made by mixing 151 b. lime
in every 50gals. water, or less in pro-
portion. Dip up and down every day
for six to seven days, when the fur
should come off easily. Wash well
in several rinses of clean water, and
trim-up edges and hanging scraps.
Tan in a solution of ylb. alum and
salt per gallon of water. Leave
for six days. Drain well from alum
and salt mixture, but do not wash.
Cover both sides of skin with
neatsfoot-oil, hang-up and dry
slowly in a draughty shed. When
dry, stretch until soft; if very dry,
sprinkle with water and cover up
for 2 days, then stretch and dry.
Correct way of slatting a mail-
order business ?
First decide on the kind of goods
you wish to handle ; call on the ware-
houses or suppliers and find out
what stocks are available, discounts,
etc. Then buy a moderate quantity
of goods and advertise all over the
country in papers with weekly
circulations. Small classified ads.
should do to start with, but to be
effective advertising must be sus-
tained. Contact with a good adver-
tising-agency would be helpful,
especially in checking appearances
in magazines.
For further supplies of goods
keep an eye on the auction-sale
columns in the dailies for surplus
or salvage stocks, which can some-
times be bought cheaply. Another
method is to examine the source of
supplies, decide on items which are
always available in quantity, and
start advertising in a small way to
test the response. Competition is
very keen; many city stores issue
comprehensive catalogues to
country customers. Faithful des-
cription of all goods offered, prompt
dispatch and good packing are most
important.
Brief Answers
M.J.:Except for keeping the soil
moist, there’s little fertiliser-value
in coffee-dregs. If used, they must
be worked through the soil; when
left on the surface they are likely
to attract lice and slaters... .S.F.G.:
The certificates may be cashed at
any branch of the Commonwealth
Bank in Australia... .R.R.: (1) A
table of square- and cube-roots of
numbers up to 1000 cannot, save in
a very restricted way, be used as an
aid to ascertaining roots of higher
numbers. Rules for extracting
square- and cube-roots will be
found in any advanced arithmetic
textbook. (2) For the rules, consult
an elementary work on mensura-
tion. In the case you cite, the
diameter of the big sphere is
approximately 17.146 in. Quantity
of water obtainable is about 94gals.
. ...P.8.Q.: As you say, Arkansas
is one of the 49 States of the U.S.A.
The spelling “Arkinsaw” is gram-
matically wrong but phonetically
correct X.X. (From the N.S.W.
Art Gallery): Do not attempt clean-
ing with soap and water. You might
get away with it, but the chances
are you won’t. A 50 p.c. solution
of linseed-oil and turps will act as
a surface-cleaner if applied with a
cottonwool swab in a circular
movement over the entire surface
of the painting. This will pick-up
surface-dirt and grime. If the dis-
coloration is due to darkening of
colors or yellowing of varnish
little can be done by the average
person. This is a job for an expert;
the painting should be put in the
hands of a competent restorer....
J.R.: “Armageddon” refers to the
place of a great battle to be fought
out on “the great day of God”
between the powers of good and
evil. Probably the word is linked
with the battlefield of Megiddo (2
Kings xxiii 29) or Megiddon
(Zech. xii 2). Hence, any great
final conflict.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear 'on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntaryy
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
F.N.: “Wattle gold September
breathes sweet a fragrance rare.”
Oh, cripes... .D.M.: There’s a
glimmer in it D.H.: Not bad,
as old huts go. ... V.G.W.:
“ Pioneers ” hackneyed. .. .N.H.:
There are few to sing of Pyrmont,
so here you go :
The smoke from Pyrmont's chimneys
Is ;i fascinating sight,
As it spirals ever upward
Ever onward out of sight.
“Fighting fight the
burdened bird” is a woeful line;
but at least you're trying... .G.K.:
You have thoughts but not much
technique. Read more... .P.S.:
“The Tyrant” got a second reading.
. ...R.N.D.: It doesn’t get beyond
being rather a nice conversation
with the lady... .D.T.: Can’t see
the tree for the words....S.A.S.:
At any rate it’s appropriately bare.
. ... R.S.S.: You have an impressive
pen-name—“ Marmaduke Plantaga-
net”.,. .J.A.M.: We love your
“Party Doll,” but you'd better take
her out.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Race-week festivities started on Derby
eve, when many parties were held.
One of the most enjoyable was that given
by the Young Contingent of the Vic-
toria League in the Collins Street club-
rooms of the league. Special guests were
officers from H.M.A.S. Melbourne and
H.M.A.S. Queenborough. Tulips striped
in scarlet and white were set in bowls
in the reception-room, and the bright,
colorful frocks of the girls present added
much to the gaiety of the scene.
Mrs. Frank May, one of the vice-
presidents of the Victoria League, was a
special guest and was among those
received at the party by Pamela Middle-
ton, chairman of the Young Contingent.
Pam chose a short frock of midnight-blue
satin. She was assisted by Mrs. T. Firth,
wearing a chemise frock in emerald- _
green wool, and Joan Duckett, whose gay
frock was in watermelon-pink and white
floral silk.
Margaret Allgood, of Tasmania, was
among the guests, as were Marjorie Tat-
nall, Jennifer Hewitt, sisters Chrissanne
and Helene Burge, Cynthia Cooper, Sue
Jarvis and Jacqueline Haslam. Among
the officers entertained were Lieutenant-
Commander Jock Yule and Lieutenant-
Commander Garvin Kable. Others were
Lieutenants Don Gunn, Ben Dunn, Peter
Arnold and George Lovell, from the
Melbourne, and Lieutenants Jim Reegan,
Kim Richards and lan Holmes, from the
Queenborough.
☆ ☆ ☆
It’s hard to show-off smart fashions
when continually dashing for cover from
the rain. That is what happened on
Derby Day, when rain fell at intervals
during the afternoon. But the day was
not entirely lost, for there was much to
admire in the pretty eye-catching hats,
smart suits and attractive shoes. The
trapeze made its debut at this important
race-meeting and was seen in numbers in
double-wedge jacket-suits and in loose,
duster-type coats. Mrs. Bruce Bowden’s,
in light-grey alpaca, was one of the
smartest. The shoes were the slimmest
ever seen, with needle-point heels and
pointed toes. They were made in blonde-
calf, and there were many in printed,
striped or spotted silk.
With the Governor and Lady Brooks
were their son-in-law and daughter, Mr.
and Mrs. Robin Byrne. Lady Brooks
wore a mist-blue wool frock and grey-
fox-trimmed jacket-ensemble topped with
a tiny blue-and-white swathed silk
toque. Lady May Abel Smith accom-
panied her husband, the Governor of
Queensland, Sir Henry Abel Smith. She
wore a short waist-length black Persian-
lamb jacket over her misty-blue printed-
silk frock, and her high-crowned hat was
in black. Lady Manifold, wife of the
V.R.C. chairman, chose a light-beige-
tweed loose-jacket suit and a pink-and-
blue flower toque.
Fashion-honors for the day went to
Mrs. Trevor Clarke for her ensemble in
wheat-gold tonings; to Mrs. L. R.
Buxton in a magnificent mole-colored
delustred - satin trapeze - line coat with
tuxedo fronts and swirling skirt finished
with a hemline of matching fox-fur ; to
Mrs. Ray Joseph in a superbly cut light-
blue-and-white check frock and loose-
jacket ensemble topped with a small
white hat; and to Mrs. Lionel Newton,
who added a red-and-white spotted
blouse to her navy-blue jacket-suit and
rounded it off with a wide-brimmed felt
Breton-sailor hat in matching red.
Four years ago pretty Joy Mitchell
made a hit in “Time Out For Ginger,”
at the Princess Theatre . She was next
seen in Garnet Carroll’s “Salad Days.”
She also understudied the role of Anne
in “The Diary of Anne Frank.” A
student of Irene Mitchell, a director of
the Little Theatre, Joy is now returning
to the Little Theatre for a season to play
the role of Anne Callifer in Graham
Greene’s “The Potting Shed.”
Once again the annual dinner-dance
organised by a very energetic committee
was held on Derby eve, this year at the
Dorchester. Proceeds from this pleasant
function are given to the Victorian
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children. The decorations were carried
out in clusters of balloons in Derby-blue
colors tied with gold ribbon. Large raffia
horses with leis of carnations and roses
round their necks were set at each side
of the bandstand, each with a posy of
similar flowers in its mouth.
Mrs. Leigh Falkiner, president of the
society, was guest-of-honor. She chose
an outstanding frock of white-and-black
tulle, which had the long bodice embroid-
ered with black paillettes and a skirt of
tiers of white-and-black lace. In her
party were Dame Mabel Brookes and
her husband Sir Norman Brookes, Lady
Gullet, Lady Steele, Mr. and Mrs. Louis
Nelken, Edric Henty and yachtsman
Frank Livingstone. With her husband,
Mrs. lan Miller, president of the ball-
committee, received the guests. She
wore a striking short frock of black-
and-silver sequins. Among those who
chose short frocks were Mrs. Bill Gluth,
wearing white French-crepe glittering
\#ffh silver beads, Mrs. Hpbill Cole, in a
sapphire-blue satin frock, and Mrs. Bruce
Wenzel, whose frock of creamy taffeta
featured the peacock hemline. Other
guests were Mr. and Mrs. Sam Hordern,
from Sydney, Sir Rupert and Lady
Clarke, Mrs. Geoffrey Grimwade (she
chose a lovely gown of pale pastel-pink
chiffon with the skirt intricately draped),
Dr. and Mrs. John Summons, the Patrick
Ryans, and Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton
Sleigh.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Frank Paton Memorial Church,
Deepdene, was the setting for the mar-
riage of Jean, eldest daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. J. T. Reid, of Kew, and Kenneth
Glencoe McKenzie. The bride chose an
embroidered white-satin gown, bow-
trimmed fullness forming a bustle-effect
at the back and the bodice featuring a
V-neckline; the sleeves were three-
quarter length. The skirt was short and
bell-shaped, and a pearl-trimmed platter-
hat of white-satin leaves held the short
tulle veil.
Matron-of-honor was the bride’s sister,
Mrs. lan Ross. Her street-length frock
was of cafe-au-lait organza over taffeta,
the skirt draped to a bustle at the back.
Mrs. Ross wore a bow of matching
organza in her hair and carried a bouquet
of pale-pink tulips and gladioli. The
bridegroom, only son of Mr. and Mrs.
W. G. J. McKenzie, of Eastwood
(N.S.W.), had Ross Nye as best man.
The reception was held at the Windsor
Hotel. The bridegroom and bride plan
to leave shortly to make their home in
Manila, where he is engaged in geological
work.
☆ ☆ ☆
In the early-Victorian surroundings of
Caroline House the members of the
committee of the Mercy Hospital Public
Maternity Wing held a luncheon to raise
funds for their very worthy cause.
Organisers were Mrs. W. Calanchini and
Mrs. Richard Manley. Among the guests
were Mrs. L. P. Coleman, whose beige
silk frock was covered with a dyed-
ermine coat and topped with a matching
toque covered with swirls ofjsilk organza.
A very attractive group of young matrons
were Mrs. Frank Galbally, Mrs. Peter
Kiernan and Mrs. Kevin Coleman. Mrs.
Leo Rodoreda, from Dalkeith (W.A.),
was there, and others noticed were Mrs.
Frank Mulcahy, Mrs. M. Butler and her
daughter Peggy, Mrs. S. G. Prentice and
Mrs. W. Osbaldistone.


SYDNEY
Although a certain proportion of the
citizenry has quitted Sydney this week
for one particular point south, it has
been a pleasant seven days with two
opening nights that brought back old
friends Robert Helpmann to ballet
audiences and Edwin Styles to a most
refreshing comedy, “Not in the Book,” at
the Theatre Royal. Talk at the opening
night of this play was all of the delight
of having Teddy Styles back with us
and in what plays we had seen him in
the past. Styles certainly is the most
delightfully relaxed player one could see,
and this laugh-making play is just the
place one should go for an evening of
refreshment and relaxation.
# V V
Apparently the long reign of the
blonde as queen of glamor is drawing to
a close. Reporting on the latest trend
in hairstyles abroad, Adelaide hairdresser
Mr. Chambrais said that “the hard
blonde” (color) is definitely right out and
that the colors now in favor were beige,
champagne, iris and frosted-blonde (the
color of the full moon). He was speaking
at a viewing of advance American hair-
styles given by Mr. Rene Henri and
members of the International Coiffure de
Dame, and he mentioned also that at
the Los Angeles Show for the first time
in many years the highest award went to
a jet-black coiffure.
All the newest hairstyles sweep the
hair forward onto the cheeks and brow,
and most give an impression of fullness
from the front. An interesting touch on
one of the coiffures shown was a “head-
ache band” of real hair dyed to contrast
or blend with the rest of the hair. Mr.
Chambrais mentioned, too, that the
Americans were experimenting courage-
ously with color and that a successful
color for evening which they had
developed was midnight-green.
ft £r A
Miss Agnes Brewster, one of Sydney’s
most outstanding educationists, who died
last year, is to be commemorated by the
Agnes Brewster Memorial Library and
the Memorial Garden Approach at the
Hornsby Girls’ High School, of which she
was the first headmistress. The garden
approach is a special tribute to Miss
Brewster’s interest in botany and her love
of growing things. The library will be
a sanctuary in the heart of the school
Miss Brewster founded, dedicated to the
work of a woman whose fine influence
and spirit seem to be indestructible.
Miss M. Cahill, the present head-
mistress of the school, says that already
there has been a warm response to the
appeal for funds for this memorial; she
invites all those who are interested and
wish to participate in it to forward their
contribution to the Agnes Brewster
Memorial Fund, Hornsby Girls’ High
School. The fund will remain open until
the New Year.
ft ft ft
Although hats were naturally featured
in the decorations for the Millinery Ball
at the Empress Ballroom, it was the foot-
wear, shown-off in most cases by waltz-
length dresses, which caught the eye..
Shoes are prettier this year than they
have been for many years, and at this
ball one saw lilac-satin shoes with tiny
lilac roses at the instep, black suede
shoes with sprays of diamente, Cinderella
shoes of clear plastic with jewelled heels,
floral shoes to match frocks, and, of
course, many satin shoes dyed in glowing
colors.
Mr. Ralph Henry organised the ball,
which is one of the functions by which
the millinery trade intends to raise money
for the Allambie Homes for old people.
Other committee-members at the ball
were Mrs. M. A. Alldritt, in a spectacular
gown of draped white satin ; Miss Olive
Davis, in a short swathed dress of black
chiffon; Mrs. Sylvia Amor and Mrs.
Ena Rochford. Among others who
attended the ball were Mr. and Mrs. Ken
Cook and Mr. and Mrs. John Campbell.
Author Margaret Trist has received
word from New York that her new
novel, “Morning in Queensland" (J. B.
Lippincott), has been very favorably
received in that city. The book is set
in the Darling Downs, where Mrs. Trist
spent her childhood; it's her third pub-
lished novel. She is also a contributor
to The Bulletin and has had two collec-
tions of her short-stories published.
Mrs. Trist is now working on a book
about the history and people of the
Hawkesbury for which she was awarded
a Commonwealth Literary Fund Grant.
Photo by Norton Trevaire.
Two books about New Zealand which
arrived in the mail recently should be
of interest to women especially, because
of their essentially feminine viewpoint.
The first, Love in a Lonely Land, is by
Rosemary Rees, who has already 23
romantic novels to her credit; in this
book she sets her story in the Gisborne
district of N.Z., where she now lives and
where she spent her childhood. The
story is about a young English girl who
comes to the Dominion in the last century
as a governess and meets hardship, mis-
fortune and finally happiness through
love. It is skilfully told, and the legends
of the district handed down by the early
settlers are woven into the narrative to
give it special interest.
The second book is Great Refusals, by
Florence Preston, and is set in the dis-
trict of the Southern Lakes. It is a
sequel to her Harvest of Daring, but may
be read independently, as it tells the story
of young Judy Grey, whose mother’s
story was told in the previous novel.
Miss Preston has a distinctive style which
gives evidence of her great delight in the
New Zealand countryside as well as her
deep feeling for, and sympathy with, all
those characters whose stories she tells.
CANBERRA
When the Governor-General, Sir
William Slim, opened the eleventh con-
ference of the Australian Federation of
Business and Professional Women's
Clubs, he said that women had set the
standards of things that really mattered
in life—honesty, kindness and honor in
our homes and in our private lives.
More than 250 delegates and members
of B.P.W. clubs from all States (includ-
ing the N.T.) attended the opening and
the four days of conference at the Can-
berra University College, where meetings
were chaired by Miss Anne Wood,
Federation president.
Many resolutions were discussed and
passed for recommendation to the Com-
monwealth Government. Professor
Marcus Oliphant was one of the stimulat-
ing guest-speakers; he spoke on the
conference theme: “The Future is our
Business Today.” Senator Agnes Robert-
son talked about her recent visit to
Japan, where she represented Australian
women at a Pan-Pacific South-east
Asian conference. Miss J. M. Randall,
vice-president of the International Federa-
tion, spoke on B.P.W. clubs from
Montreal to Mannheim. Jean Arnot, of
Sydney, also addressed the conference.
Highlight of the social entertainment
for delegates was a late-afternoon
champagne reception given by the
Governor-General and Lady Slim at
Government House, where their Excel-
lencies received guests in the drawing-
room. As patroness of the Canberra
B.P.W. Club, Lady Slim had special
interest in news of club activities from
visiting delegates. Among those who
enjoyed the gay reception were Miss
Anne Wood, of Brisbane ; Melbourne
president Dr. Janet Cooper (who is
Mayor of South Melbourne); Miss Coral
Wood, Sydney ; Mrs. T. Mills, Adelaide ;
Miss M. Griffith, Hobart ; Miss K.
Robinson, Toowoomba ; Miss P. Thoms,
Brisbane ; Miss B. Cheyne, Perth ; Mrs.
J. Haenke, Ipswich; Miss M. Conden,
Darwin ; and Miss Helen Fleming, Can-
berra president.


victory. People keep on writing in
their own styles; and you really can-
not divide them into groups who write
about Australia and groups who don’t:
on the one hand we have had McAuley
writing (not at all satirically) at least
about New Guinea; and two of Robert
D. Fitz Gerald’s best poems (not count-
ing his Tongan epic) are “Fifth Day,”
about Warren Hastings, and “The Face
of the Waters,” about Eternal Recur-
rence (I think).
It is the same in Pringle’s observa-
tions on art. You really cannot, in
serious connoisseurship, make the
sudden discovery of a handful of
Sydney contemporaries without a single
reference to Tom Roberts, Gruner,
Streeton, Heysen and the massive and
resplendent output of Norman Lindsay;
and if Pringle is aware of these earlier
painters and is deliberately confining
himself to the present, I wish he had
at least briefly referred to them, as he
does in literature to Lawson and
Furphy, so that we would know that
he was not merely taking a five-year
view of Australian art.
And it is the same, no doubt, when
he comes to politics. Obviously he
would have studied the historical back-
ground; but it is the things that
happened when he was in Australia,
when he was editing the “Herald” —
the Petrov Case; the Movement; the
rise of the Democratic Labor Party—
that most interest him. The past he is
not so sure about: he says, for instance,
that “many” citizens in Sydney and
Melbourne moved out to the country
in fear of Japanese bombing after the
raid on Darwin. He offers for the
future the bleak and slightly complacent
suggestion that a “world-government”
in forty or fifty years might feel
obliged to hand-over at least northern
Australia and New Guinea to “the
surplus populations of China or India
or Japan,” and he feels that this would
be “a very hard proposal to resist”:
he hardly seems aware how vehemently
it would, nevertheless, be resisted.
Pringle, as an editor, will be the first
to realise the inescapable dilemma into
which I have now fallen. It is press
day; the comps, are waiting for the
copy; I have already given his book
more than its allotted space; and now
I have neither time nor space for an
adequate “however”: no opportunity
to discuss his book’s crisp and provoca-
tive portraits of Mr. Menzies and Dr.
Evatt, its superb picture of the “three
winds” which govern Sydney, its fine
understanding of the squattocracy. the
fascination of its analysis of recent
movements in politics, the devastating
exactness of many of its criticisms, the
genuine warmth of its appreciation of
the best elements of Australian life, its
general brilliance and accuracy as a
picture of Australian life today, its
value as such for overseas readers.
However, there is at least room to say
that personally I found it delightful;
and never more so than when Pringle,
as so often he is, is trailing his coat.
Douglas Stewart.
Redgrave on Stage
The charge commonly levelled at
actors’ books, that they are merely
overdone full - length self - portraits,
cannot be made against Mask or Face,
by Michael Redgrave (Heinemann).
This collection of lectures and articles
is a most businesslike study of acting.
In fact, he is so much on his subject
that one feels continually the lack of
backstage experience which would
clarify the points Redgrave, with some-
thing of the intense concision of Eliot
writing about poetry, is making.
That he is far beyond the everyday
actor in his thinking about the theatre
is to be observed throughout his chapter
on “Shakspeare and the Actors”:—
In life Hamlet’s advice to the
players would seem somewhat insult-
ing to even a mediocre actor, yet we
do not feel that it is insulting when
we see it played in the theatre, and
we are not meant to. Shakspeare is
serving-up to the public the public’s
favorite idea about acting—that it
should be “natural,” “lifelike”.....
But to my mind the most significant
remark on acting occurs in an earlier
scene, when Hamlet, inviting the first
player to recite, says: “We’ll e’en to
it like French falconers, fly at any-
thing we see: we’ll have a speech
straight.”
And, true to the “speech straight,”
Redgrave won’t have a bar of a Hamlet
in love with his mother, or Macbeth
being a poet. He sees no noble
philosophy or resignation in the
“Tomorrow and tomorrow” speech,
merely a vicious and deliberate blas-
phemy; and Sir Lewis Casson, when
Redgrave told him this, said, “You are
quite right, and if you have the courage
to do that as you see it, fully believing
it, you will be doing something
wonderful.”
As to the end-stopping of Shak-
speare’s lines, Redgrave considers that
all right in the earlier plays, but that
in the later plays, “Timon,” “Cymbe-
line,” “The Winter’s Tale” and “The
Tempest.”
Shakspeare’s ear tired of endless
iambic pentameters.... also of the
monotony which actors.... often
give to the utterance of them....lt
is extremely difficult, in “The
Tempest.” at any rate, which is the
only one of the late plays of which
I have working knowledge, to
achieve any kind of sure-fire
rhetoric effect... .It is as if Shak-
speare was there at one’s elbow say-
ing “Get on with it,” or “Don’t try
and make too much of that.....”
He is in all things practical: in the
chapter on “Actors and Audiences” he
makes you see how acting can seem
more lovely than love to the actor,
when he comes upstairs after Act II
with Diana Wynyard:—■
We catch each other’s eye, and,
because I feel ready to burst, I say,
crossing my fingers (we actors are
superstitious), “I’m not imagining it,
am I?” She knows what I mean,
but, also superstitiously, queries:
“What?” I blurt out: “This feeling
of . . . you know . . . complete
communication.” She nods, her eyes
shining....
They are talking, in case you don’t
believe it, of the audience: “It is that
rare, all too rare occasion, when....
the audience is not merely held by the
actors; it seems to cradle them in its
arms.”
And then he is off on the doubtful
pleasure to the actor of overhearing
remarks about himself; and everyone
who has “been before the public” will
sympathise with him at the moment
when, settling down for a duologue
with the heroine,
and looking up at Miss Valerie
Taylor with eyes swimming with
affection and 10ve.... I heard a lady
in the stalls whisper to someone
beside her: “I like her.” I was
rather quick on my cues after that.
A further chapter, “I Am Not a
Camera,” discusses a stage-actor’s early
difficulties with films, and also the tech-
nique of film-directors he has worked
under; while in “Notes on Direction”
he goes into the higher mathematics of
the casting and characterisation of an
actual play and —a short but very
effective curiosity—the speech he made
to the cast of a play which had been
running some time, and was running
ragged. Here, by example, he shows
how repetition, the actor’s bugbear,
can ruin performances, and how this
may be remedied.
All in all, a book that might well
aid critics to see what is being done
for them, and players to do it.
Two for Children
When Christmas is approaching, the
newly-fledged children’s books leave
the nest and preen their wings and fly;
and the first two Australian harbingers
thus to arrive this season are Elisabeth
Maclntyre’s Katherine (Angus and
Robertson) and Elyne Mitchell’s The
Silver Brumby (Hutchinson).
Elyne Mitchell’s book —just to mar
the metaphor —is about a horse; and,
for older children, a pretty good book,
too. It is the life-story of a white


ANTHOLOGY OF QUEENSLAND WRITING
CENTENARY, 1959
As part of the 1959 Queensland Centenary Celebrations an anthology of
Queensland poetry and prose works over the last 100 years is being prepared.
An invitation is extended to writers resident or born in Queensland to
submit to the Editors for possible inclusion a short selection of their original
works. Authors should procure from any copyright holders the necessary
permission to reprint.
All submissions should reach the undersigned not later than 15th Nov., 1958.
R. S. BYRNES \ , . _
VAL VALLIS ) Joint Edltor3 ’
Anthology of Queensland Writing, Centenary Celebrations, 1959,
C/o. The Premier’s Department, BRISBANE, B. 7.
Splendour Books
For Children
A fine series of large, handsome books. All the old favourites are featured —
see the list below. Every page features a colour picture—altogether a delightful
series. A perfect gift for the young reader.
“The Adventures of Pinocchio” .. „ „
“Tales From Hans Andersen” .. .. „
“Tales From the Arabian Nights” ~
“Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland”
“The Sleeping Beauty and Other Stories” ..
“The Wizard of Qz” ... „
“Mother Goose Nursery Rhymes” ... _
“More Tales From Hans Andersen” ...
“A Christmas Carol”
“Snow White and Other Stories”
(Postage 1 / - per volume)
Books for Children. Books for Adults. Books for Work. Books for
Study. Books for Leisure. Magazine Subscriptions. Long Playing
Gramophone Records.
All are available at the book shop which gives that little extra service that
means so much —
GRAHAME BOOK COMPANY PTY., LTD.,
39-49 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY - - BW 2261
18/9d.
15/6d.
15/6d.
18/9d.
15/6d.
18/9d.
15/6d.
15/6d.
18/9d.
15/6d.
brumby stallion in the Australian Alps
country.
One has some doubts about the way
the horses talk in it—Mrs. Mitchell,
with her essentially realistic approach,
hasn’t set up quite the right climate of
fantasy where this could be acceptable
—and, with one brumby-hunt following
another and the stallions incessantly
fighting, it is a bit repetitive; but against
that Mrs. Mitchell does know her
country and does know her brumbies.
Obviously a lot of it is based on facts
and legends about the brumbies learned
in the mountain country; and here the
young reader may follow the fortunes
of the stallion as he fights his way to
leadership, steals himself a tame filly
from a stockyard (a set of very good
scenes), roves the mountains from
spring to winter pastures and, chiefly,
dodges the brumby-hunters through
wild gullies until at last he leaps down
a crag to his secret valley . . . with, for
good measure, snakes, wallabies, wom-
bats, candlebarks and ribbon-gums
(aren’t they the same trees?) and
snowgums, -
There are horses, again, as it happens,
in Elisabeth Maclntyre’s book:—
Dandy, her pony, she loves best of
all.
She feeds him, and grooms him, and
tidies his stall.
But this is for very much younger
children. It is one of those stories told
in simple rhyme, - where the more
important thing is the pictures; and
these, with a touch of Dufy, are large,
bright, crisp and attractive. Katherine,
the heroine, is a little girl who lives on
a farm, W'here she observes, among
other wonders,
The men shear so quickly and kindly,
it’s not
Unlike helping you out of your coat
when it’s hot—
and then she is invited to Sydney: so
that Elisabeth Maclntyre, prudently
having a bit both ways, is able to
describe the Bridge and Bondi and all
that.
Reviewed Briefly
Safer Than a Known Way: lan
McHorton (Odhams). This is the story
of a young officer escaping from
Japanese-held Burma after he had been
wounded during General Wingate’s first
Chindit expedition. According to
column standing-orders, any wounded
man who could not keep up with the
march had to be left to fend for him-
self so as not to delay the column.
McHorton got back and wrote this
book vivid but somewhat over-
dramatised.
* «* * m
Mary Ann (Seeker and Warburg), a
short first novel by a young American
writer, Alex Karmel, reads as if written
by two people—begun by a novelist
who knew exactly what he was writing
about and how to get his effects without
strain, then taken up by someone who,
uncertain of his ground, took the story
right over the line of credibility and
dispersed whatever force it had. Author
One tells of a New York high-school
girl who, coming home one night after
choir-practice, is raped by a man she
cannot see. She eventually tries to kill
herself by jumping off Brooklyn bridge.
But Author Two, apparently to avoid
the negative ending, has created
another lost soul, a mechanic who grabs
the girl off the bridge and keeps her
in his flat until she recovers and realises
that they are each other’s only chance
in life. It’s a good idea, but it calls for
a change in pace, mood and treatment
which Author Two does not give it.
He persists with the case-book method
of Author One; so the recovery is
nowhere near as convincing as the
breakdown.


Ex-American Army Ponchos
XJ
t A..
E-American Army Ponchos in perfect
condition. These can he used as a cape
and tno can be joined together to form
a two-man tent. Made from the famous
Buna Cloth. A must for hikers. Scouts,
etc. Price 32/6 ea.
Post 3/- ea. extra.
326
each
PACKS
Ex-Army
r-;
.... ,t
'V -si;
efts-—*t-
SR
l'ull size Army web parks,
complete with straps. A
must for hikers, campers, etc.
Price 19/6 each
Brand New Rope
•.i?
7/Miin. diam. in 'hilt,
iengths. Splice one end.
Ideal for load tying, etc.
Price 4/ each.
SPRING HEAD
NAILS
Z-f:
. X v
BUILDERS: Spring Head
Galvanised roofing nails.
2'/:>in in approx, cut. cases.
Price £5/-/- per case.
Note: This is half price.
BLANKETS
All-wool. Brand new.
Single l*e<l .. ..
357-
Canvas Hammocks
Ex naval, used, 12/6 each.
Size aft. v 3ft. tiin.
NEW Single BEDS >
brand
NEW
Single Beds. Brand new.
Size 3ft. as illustrated.
Price 59/6
Itrand new leather flying
gauntlets. Knr lined and
wrist length zippers.
I‘riee l!»'<> pair.
All sizes. I*nst 'l (i extra.
NO
AXLE
TRAILER, i'(i 10 ■-
\V H KJKLKA U ROM', £<i - -
Trailer and tVheel borrow
Wheels.
Complete I nit
£6/10/- each
UNDERPANTS
Cotton Athletic
NEW UNDERPANTS
Size 38 only.
Price 2/11 pair
Or 7 for 20/-. Post (id.
extra eacli.
PETROL TANKS
Original blitz. Brand new.
Size Join, v UJin. x llin.
Price 45/-
FOLDING LEG
TABLES
Drain! new T’OL,DING
I,K(. TABLES, C x 3,
five . |>l.v venenre limiril.
Steel legs. I’rice £4/10/-
Seeoiul - hand SOLID
TO I* MOOI) TABLES,
£3/10/-.
ni:\v
I'OM) I„EG
STOOLS, «\
Army. Vmml.
:i.» - <‘u.
CLEAR SURFACE
ON TABLE
\
■W'j
< -y" y.
'
m
ISraiiil Xrvv K.A.A.I'. Uubber I>ijigiiies; ax used by the
It.A.A.I'. in (lie event of nil eiiiergvnc.v. Ideal for l’ienies.
Holidays, ele.
PRICE: 2 Man, £lO
Rubber Life Jackets, perfect condition, 12/6
Mattress Covers
K.v naval lieav.vvdut.v canvas,
ill. Win., single bed, 17, 6,
!><>*( A/- extra.
Brand New Trousers
i'i
:
X
m
BRAND NEW
H.A.A.I.
(iuliarriinc
Hlue Trousers.
Sizes from 28-
.{4 waist. lii -
I tiding: frac-
tional fittings
in leg; lengths
.111(1 Belt Poops
on waist. Price
87/fi l>r. Well
vyortli (ionliie.
Post I/- extra.
37/6
Ex-Army
Mattress
Single
lied size
3ft. Oin. only,
’rice 30/- each.
TARPAULINS
All Sizes Kept in
Stock
Please Inquire
A utitrstlian Ex -A rmy
Telephone Wire
Price 25/-
lM**r mHe coil.
; .
FLYING CAPS
Krand new Kid Leather
Chamois-lined.
Price 17/6 each
All siy.es.
STRETCHERS
(I'OHUNC LE(iS)
Tubular ,!Steel
20/- each 20/-
Camp Stretchers
Canvas touting:, steel trames.
45/- (used)
Steel Tool Boxes
(Kx Army Ammo Box _ es)
Size 'JO x 11 x 7, heavy gauge
steel, galvanised, two lock-
ing staples and handles.
I'riee 25 - each.
(i. Price 20/-
Boxes.
Price 17/6 ea.
Price 15/- ea.
Price 12/6 ea.
x 12 x 7, 5/-
iod container)
Corrugated Iron
COEOSSA I, PI KCHASE
S/H PO«KIBATED
ROOIIMi IKON
Sizes 5. 6,7, 8.
Price 1/- per foot.
NOTE. —All Inspection and
iu<iuiries regarding Iron to
he made at 122-121 Devon-
shire Street. Phone EA 9155,
FA 76111. Don’t miss out.
This is exceptional value.
Thousands of Sheets.
CHEVROLET
GEAR BOXES
BRAND NEW
Lend
Lease
Chev.
■AJJSi**
Price
£6O ea.
TENTS
Cottage type Army Tents.
8 man. Size 14 x 12. All
ropes attached.
Price £l5/10/- each
Flys £l2/10/- extra.
Size 18 x 12.
MAIL ORDER
SPECIALISTS
NO C.O.D.
KING’S
[LEATHER GQODSTYRES
ORCHARD'S CORNER,
£cuUUekt{
GENERAL MERCHANTS
WORKING
CLOTHES
SPECIALISTS
793 George St., MA 4537,
CENTRAL
RAILWAY
SQUARE
(Cnr. George Sc Quay Sts., Opp. Saunders)
460 PITT ST, (Opp. Gas Light Co.) MA 2592.
122-124 Devonshire St., Surry Hills. Phone FA9155—FA7691
Phone Mail Call—After Hours FX 7242—MX 1269
WRITE FOR POST FREE CATALOGUE
ARMY
NAVY
A. FORCE
