

The Bulletin
"Laughter in the Sun”—pa ge S 6
Wednesday f June 4, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"Looks like a photo-finish in the Mega fang Mixed Stake s."


STORY WRITING!!
MANY STOTT STUDENTS
PAY FOR THEIR COURSE
BEFORE COMPLETING IT.
It will pay YOU to study with STOTT’S.
Note these extracts from letters received:—
“Since I started my Course, I have had SIX-
TEEN Stories and Articles accepted, so you see
the Course has more than PAID FOR ITSELF.”
“I have earned more money while taking the
Course than I paid in fees.”
“My earnings from my Writing total almost
£7O (Les. II).”
“During the past six months my Acceptances
have returned me over £200.”
“I very much enjoyed my studies and more
than paid for the Course with Articles accepted.”
STOTT’S CAN TRAIN YOU AT HOME.
Our Literary Prospectus is sent without
obligation to all interested in Writing.
;o<> Kussell St., Melbourne; 148 Castlereagh St.,
S3dney ; 380 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St„ Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you —fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
BIRDS OF NEW GUINEA
The Australiana Society’s Birds of
New Guinea (Georgian House), text by
Tom Iredale and illustrations by Lilian
Medland, is unquestionably the most
beautiful book produced in Australia
in the last 12 months or more—for
the very good reason that no other
lavishly illustrated de luxe editions
have been published to compete with it.
But “Birds of New Guinea” would
have been an outstanding achievement
in any year. Printed in two volumes,
it comes in a pleasant and durable
grey box which matches the grey cloth-
hinHinq and displays the extremely
spines with their gilt lettering
l leather and their gold-blocked
>ns of birds—a bird-of-paradise
1 and (if the interpretation is
v ec a galatea racket-tail on the
galatea racket-tail, Tom Ire-
orms us, is a kingfisher, one
)ably the most intriguing king-
n the world.”
volumes are very readably
in wide double-columns with
r ou s margins and the whole
nee is as solid and as hand-
! anyone could wish. But the
:markable thing about the pro-
uucuun is the lavishness (and the
excellence) of the illustrations. Here
are no fewer than 35 plates in color
featuring 347 birds, each individual
figure so large, clear and lifelike that
it would be impossible to make a
mistake in identification while at the
same time you get a picture that is
in itself a delightful work of art.
Although high costs of production
and the consequent high price to the
buyer might be an insuperable obstacle,
anyone who has pored over Cayley’s
“What Bird Is That?”, trying to iden-
tify some passing stranger amongst the
minute and crowded figures, must long
to see Australian birds represented with
the same clarity—invaluable though
Cayley is, in the absence of a pro-
duction on this scale.
New Guinea birds are, of course, a
race apart in their weird and gorgeous
plumage, and we have seen before, in
“Birds of Paradise and Bower Birds”
by the same author and illustrator,
what Lilian Medland could do with
them. But the color-plates in this pro-
duction, due to the use of an eggshell
finish on the paper which reduces the
glossiness, are even more attractive
than in the earlier book ; nnd, if the
plate of birds-of-paradise, with the
Little King glowing and flirting in the
centre and the Augusta-Victoria like a
flame at the top-left, is still inevitably
the most spectacular, the volumes are
full of the most charming and astonish-
ing pictures all the way through: the
soft browns of the nightjars and frog-
mouths, for example, the restraint of
the blue - grey cuckoo - shrike, and
the lustrous sapphire of the giant
fairy-wren.
“Birds of New Guinea” is hardly,
except for the specialist, a book to read.
For one thing, though one hesitates
to make any complaint of so noble a
labor, Iredale’s prose is still a little
wordy and awkward—he needs a really
maddening sub-editor. And further,
though he is not so technical as some
birdmen who make their books as
formidable as a textbook of mathe-
matics, he is essentially concerned
with practical matters of nomenclature,
description and identification and has
few of those touches of first-hand
observation which so much enliven the
text in Cayley.
But the volumes remain rewarding
to dip into: even to read the list of
contents, for instance, and to realise
that New Guinea has such exotic
inhabitants as the White -bellied
Monarch, the Green Alpine-Wren, the
Ruddy False-Fly eater, the Caterpillar-
catcher, the Wonder Tree-runner, the
Large Bare-eyed Honey-sucker, the
Curl-crested Manucode and, of course,
the Exquisite Little King and Mrs.
Reichenow’s Bird-of-Paradise.
Then there is Iredale’s insistence on
the extreme differences between the
various birds loosely grouped as bower-
birds and birds-of-paradise, so that you
realise that New Guinea is populated
not merely by one or two families of
these extraordinary creatures but by
many different families which have very
little in common except that they run
to fantastic decoration or fantastic
habits of play and decoration. And,
in keeping, there is his doubt that all
this splendor of plumage and charm
of behavior is merely a matter of sex-
really it is time that naturalists recog-
nised the obvious fact that there is a
principle of beauty operating in Nature
as well as a principle of reproduction:—
The extraordinary development of
apparently unnecessary plumage is
supposed to be due to sexual excite-
ment in the breeding season
While this theory is more-or-less
accepted, it is beyond human reason-
ing how some of the ornaments
could have evolved from such a
cause. Moreover.... the adornment
apparently gives pleasure to the
individual at any season of the year,
even without the attraction of the
female.
And finally (if you read the book
backwards, which is as good a way as
any) there is Iredale’s introduction,
which points to the importance of
the work: —
There is no book in existence deal-
ing with the birds of New Guinea in
a handy form, with colored illustra-
tions to guide the student.... .There
have been only two works dealing
with New Guinea birds as a whole,
and neither of these is available
to the ordinary worker, or even
museum. The first is a large series
of folio volumes of colored plates
.... issued over 60 years ag0....
and now worth some hundreds of
pounds. The second consists of three
volumes in Italian, issued over 50
years ago and now scarcer, but not
more valuable, than the other.
How accurate or contentious “Birds
of New Guinea” may be this reviewer
is unable to say; but obviously it is
a work of the first importance in its
field and at the same time a book
which any collector of Australiana or
connoisseur of fine editions would wish
to have on his shelves.
Triggerplants
Next to the orchids, triggerflowers
are one of the most engaging of the
oddities to be found in the Australian
bush, for the reason that they share,
though in a much lesser degree, the
faintly animal nature of the orchids;
or, as Rica Erickson puts it in Trigger-
plants (Paterson Brokensha Pty., Ltd.,
Perth, W.A.), they almost seem to have
“intelligence.”
The little pink flower that grows so
profusely in damp spots around the
Sydney sandstone, perched on its slim
stem about six-inches to a foot high,
keeps its fist coiled round its back and,
when you prod it in the right place
(Continued on page 58)


ANTHONY HORDERHS
I
*»»»
$(«
{.(
sg:
&
m
S 3
/
V'-
'V : -
ran
PHONE 80951. BOX 2712, C.P.0., SYDNEY
Kitchen news! chromium plated
7 PIECE KITCHEN SET
with hang-up handles and rack
WMl—Top priority in any kitchen . . . English
"Sky-line" tool set comprising spatula, potato
masher, fork whisk, spoon, ladle, egg
slice, hanging rack. It is stainless and
rustless. Priced at only 39/11
Kitchenware Depart., Ground Floor, Pitt Street
WM2—Kande Baby Food
Mill. Strong, rustless, and
easy to assemble. At: 12/6
WM3—Plastic Cutlery Bas-
ket. Clatter-proof, 8 x 13",
unbreakable. At only 8/11
Venetian Blind Cleaner
WM4— -'Va-Vite' washable
cleaner, sponge rub., 9/11
m
Set of 3 Plastic Containers
WMB —Airtight, unbreak-
able kitchen keepers. 13/11
"Lou-Vite" Louvre Cleaner
WM5 —Plastic foam, saves
any cut hands. For 7/11
"Peggy" Plastic Peg Basket
WM9 —Slides along clothes
line. Holds 100 pegs. 3/11
Simple Plastic Siphon
WM6 —To siphon petrol, or
fill kero, appliances. 14/11
"Slik" Plastic Clothes Line
WMlo —s4ft. long, looped
end for hanging. Guar. 8/11
"Kande" Plated Cake Cooler
WM7 —Of expanded metal.
Holds 2 large cakes. 7/6
wmm
wmmt
fb
Handy Metal "Dishlifter"
WMll —As necessary as a
spoon. No oven cloths. 4/11
BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. POSTAGE EXTRA. KITCHENWARE, GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET


The Bulletin
Vol. 79—No. 4086
Wednesday, June 4, 1958
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
* Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adama
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
GJP.O.), Wellington.
FRANCE IN TRANSITION
AFTER a fortnight of somewhat
manoeuvring, in which
the progress of events was allowed to
play its full influence on the people and
members of the National Assembly,
the French are nearer to the solution
of their difficulties; at least they have
come to the test which will show
whether they can solve them without
civil war.
President Coty said on May 29 that
the country “was on the edge of civil
war” —he was merely repeating what
Premier Pffimlin had said already.
It was clear that any Government of
de Gaulle would meet resistance, prob-
ably physical, from the Communist
bloc, even if the Socialist parties could
be made to compromise. Compromise
most of them did, and this enabled
de Gaulle to take office with the back-
ing (and a Cabinet) of all parties save
the Communists and extreme-Left
Socialists. The Assembly-vote in his
favor was 329 to 224, and he secured
a mandate for six months to reform
the Constitution by separating legisla-
tive and executive powers and to
rationalise relationships with overseas
possessions.
Firm government by de Gaulle
may touch-off strikes by the powerful
Communist unions, and in view of the
nature of Parisian and Marseillaise
unionism this could mean violence
leading to the civil war that M. Coty
fears, since the new Government is
certainly not made of the stuff which
will suffer such proceedings without
vigorous counter-measures.
On the other hand, the de Gaulle
factions have no intention whatever of
allowing any Leftist Government with
“anti-colonial” viewpoints and plans
leading to the loss of Algeria to take
over. For the moment they have the
means to prevent it, because they have
a naval and military force behind them,
apart from a very strong backing from
the Assembly.
r pHE Communist party is the key
■ party in France, even though
nobody will have anything to do with
it except its own members and the
opportunist Socialists. The largest
party in the Assembly, it has been
wearing its halo all through the crisis
in its alleged objective, the exclusion of
“Fascism,” which, of course, means
anything opposed to Communism.
France, with a Government in which
the majority was provided by the Com-
munists, at a time when the Constitu-
tion is under review, would soon cease
to be France and become another
Czechoslovakia. Under such a Govern-
ment the arming of the Communist-led
unions would presently proceed; poli-
ticians not of the Red persuasion would
begin to have attacks of remorse and
throw themselves out of windows or off
the? Eiffel Tower; and the hardiest non-
Communist Minister would become
subject to mortal heart-attacks on short
notice.
npHE only difference between France
and the eastern European countries
would be that the French are complete
individualists who are not used to being
browbeaten by any Government, and
the result would almost certainly be
wholesale repression of the order of
the Hungarian events of 1956-7, or
general chaos. The former would be
the more likely for a specific reason.
Certainly one result from the ascen-
dancy of Communism or of Socialism
in the power of Communism would be
developments which might lead not
merely to national but to world disaster.
It would mean that a Government
would be in office which would be
committed to the “freeing” of Algeria
and to an alliance with the Kremlin. It
would have no scruples whatever about
calling for Kremlin help if it found
itself in difficulty, since Moscow, not
Paris, is the real capital of its kingdom.
It would undoubtedly form a territorial
linkage with the Russian empire by
either handing-over or sharing-the con-
trol of the French zone of defence in
Germany. And it would undoubtedly
either liquidate France’s association
with Nato or make it impossible for
that organisation to work, since its
very essence is the defence of Western
Europe against the onslaught of
Communism.
It would completely alter the poli-
tical balance of the world, and par-
ticularly of the Mediterranean, which
would be deeded to the Soviet bloc.
It would put Spain in a new position.
And it would wreck the European
Economic Organisations, alter the
exchange-structure of the world, not to
mention the trade-structure, and in
particular it would isolate the United
Kingdom and West Germany in a most
disastrous manner.
A LTOGETHER, the possibilities are
so serious that they would consti-
tute a threat to the West and to civilisa-
tion, another moving-forward of the
Iron Curtain across a vital part of the
free world. It is no wonder that Presi-
dent Eisenhower and Field-Marshal
Montgomery, great architects and long-
term partners in the construction of the
defence of the West, should have gone
out of their way to say a good word for
de Gaulle when ordinary conditions
might have precluded thgm from com-
ment.
It is no wonder that even the Krem-
lin seemed to quail at the chances of
world war, or that the French parties
chose as they did, even those strongly
opposed to de Gaulle personally.
There is no doubt but that the
present system of Republican Govern-
ment in France is unworkable. It is
unworkable as an offence against the
adage that too many cooks spoil the
broth.
The only system which will work in
a democracy is that which time and
experience have evolved in the great
English-speaking countries—a Parlia-
ment of two strong parties, one of
which is stronger than the other, but
the weaker strong enough to make the
impact of its criticisms felt; a strong
and trusted executive which has the
support of the majority and traditional
powers of its own, but is the leader and
not the instrument of the legislature in
day-to-day Government; a Parlia-
ment with reasonable security of tenure
under proper safeguards, but subject
to checks and the will of the electors.
In France these conditions do not
apply, for one reason because of the
difficulty which any Government has
in taking Parliament to the country
and securing a mandate to govern.
TT is obvious that de Gaulle is work-
A ing towards the Anglo-Saxon ideal,
at least at the top. It is obvious, too,
that there must be some interregnum of
authoritarian government before it can
be achieved, and there seems to be no
chance of achieving it except under the
leadership of de Gaulle.
He is an enigmatic character whose
real quality and conceptions are not an
open book, save that he is undoubtedly
a stern patriot with power of command
and respect of the world, if not its
affection.
At least he belongs to the West, and
is not a vassal of Moscow. His coming
into office may alter France’s attitude in
world affairs, but it would certainly
strengthen rather than weaken Nato.
His success will depend on the amount
of physical resistance the Communists
can muster in the next few days.
As a dictator, Constitutional or
otherwise, who is compelled to frame
his measures only through the backing
of the military he would go off to a
bad start.


NEXT MOVE?


PLAIN ENGLISH
Free to Murder
The disturbances which reach from
Indonesia .t° Algeria are little noticed
in Australia, but they are ominous, in
view of the manner in which they lie
along the lines of Australia’s,communica-
tions with Europe.
Despite assurances that the Indonesian
uprising has been quelled, all that seems
fo have happened in those unhappy
islands is that the disease has moved
inwards. The conflict is still there and
the sore will remain, breaking-out
sporadically whenever the Government
happens to be looking the other way.
The British and French both learned
by hard experience how difficult it is to
suppress guerrilla movements and the
intransigence of small and angry peoples.
And so have the flatulent rulers of the
United Nations and of the new small
countries that have become “free.”
They have also learned that wherever
the Communists lurk nothing but their
complete immolation will bring peace,
whether they are in authority or still
fighting to establish the dictatorship of
the proletariat. Under Communist
influence the youth of Singapore holds
its ingredient of savage and senseless
agitators who keep schools, university
and public bodies in a ferment of
rowdyism and who make civic peace
impossible and national agreement
almost so. Racial division produces
similar effects.
’Ceylon for weeks has been in the
grip of riots which led last week to the
declaration of a state of emergency
throughout the Leftist-run island. A
curfew was declared in Colombo after
nights of looting, arson and outrage.
Schools and shops were closed in the
capital, and in some country districts the
position was reported worse —it was
even stated that security forces had fired
on mobs in the centre of the island.
The whole trouble was racial, and arose
round a proposal to give the racial
minority of Tamils equality of language
.with the Sinhalese. At the end of the
week the position seemed worse rather
than better, and the life of Ceylon
demoralised.
On the mainland of India another tug-
of-war was going on in Kerala State
between a Communist Government trying
to suppress all minorities and to turn the
school system wholly to the purpose of
bolshevising youth.
Still further west the war of the Yemen
border against the British, though a
little damped-down, was in progress.
And across in Lebanon the President had
fled his palace and Beirut was not yet
done with rioting any more than Israel
and Jordan had done with border
murders, or Cyprus with insane terrorism,
which would turn into a Graeco-Turkish
civil war if the British withdrew.
The utter futility and helplessness of
the talkers of the U.N. was shown last
week in the umpteenth border-clash
between Israel and Jordan since the U.N.
version of an army was dowered expen-
sively to keep the peace 18 months ago.
In the process of stopping murders
by raiders on the Israel-Jordan border
the chairman of the United Nations
Mixed Armistice Commission, Colonel
Flint, of the Canadian Army, was mur-
dered, and Australia and Sweden nearly
lost valuable officers along with the
Israeli policemen who died.
All the United Nations’ Mr. Hammer-
skjold seemed able to do about it was
much the same as U.N. did about the
earlier murder of Count Bernadotte and
other incidents involving raiding and
assassination.
He proposes to get a “report on the
whole incident and the circumstances
surrounding Colonel Flint’s death” and
“make it public as soon as it is received.”
He says that “the United Nations owes
a deep debt of gratitude” to the colonel,
whose life has been sacrificed to the
poweriessness of U.N. to do anything
more effective than shake its finger at
lawbreakers and murderers.
Altogether the diarrhoea of violence
seems to point one moral. The unrest
of the supposedly free little nations
which have “broken the shackles of
imperialism,” British or otherwise, is
greater than that of the same nations
when “colonialised.” Life is much more
precarious and arduous in any of them
than during the rule of British or French
or Dutch “masters.”
They seem to be really free to do
only one thing—murder each other, not
to mention the agent of any benign and
misguided busybody who interferes in
the interests of peace and security of
life.
A Slightly Muddled Migrant
When Malcolm Muggeridge discusses
personalities he shows a considerable
insight into character and is quick to
detect weaknesses and foibles. In the field
of controversy he is always stimulating,
often provocative, never dull. Morever,
his arguments are, as often as not, quite
sound —which is something to say of a
man who is prepared to write on anything,
any time, at the drop of a hat. In this
regard, however, he seems safest on sub-
jects where right or wrong is a matter
of opinion ; where the final verdict must
wait on events and can only be pro-
nounced by posterity. When he calls in
facts and figures to support his argument,
he’s not so hot.
In a “Sydney Morning Herald” article
discussing the White Australia policy
he wonders whether Australians have
thought-out all its implications and sug-
gests that although most Australians
believe in the policy they are not pre-
pared to sacrifice present comforts in
order to increase the current inadequate
rate of European admissions to the
extent necessary to give the policy a
chapce of permanent success.
In this he is probably quite right. The
agitation which a couple of years ago
forced the Government to cut-down the
intake is indicative of that. But when he
starts talking statistics Mr. M. lets the
side down. He argues that if America
in the second half of last century had
similarly restricted its immigration to the
number it could comfortably absorb, “the
American population today would be
comparable to that of Canada —say 15
million instead of 160 million.”
He further asks himself “what would
have happened if here, as in the United
States, a policy of unrestricted immigra-
tion had been pursued.” He answers
that “this vast land might now, like
America, have been teeming with people.”
Mr. M.'s facts are a little muddlidged.
For the greater part of the past 100 years
Australia did have a virtually unrestricted
immigration policy as far as Europeans
were concerned. It was the closer proxi-
mity of America and (with growing
emphasis) its increasing industrialisation
that attracted the flow of migrants there
instead of here. The importance of the
second factor is shown by Canada’s poor
showing in comparison with the United
States.
In assuming that the current rate of
immigration is far below that of the
United States last century Mr. Mugger-
idge is wide of the facts. In the 10 years
to June, 1957, the average annual Aus-
tralian intake of migrants exceeded 1 per
cent. Only in occasional years did America
ever reach this rate ; it never maintained
it for a whole decade. Conjecturing on
America’s possible population today had
it restricted immigration “in the second
half of last century” Mr. Muggeridge
settles for 15 million. At the beginning of
the period it already had half as many
again as that. The population of the
United States in 1850 was 23,191,876.
Melbourne Police Troubles
[From “Collins Street”]
Chief-secretary Rylah and Vic-
torian Police Commissioner Porter are,
or were at this writing, pretty much in
the' dark about the real reason for the
big meeting of metropolitan police carry-
ing a motion of no-confidence in the
commissioner by a majority of perhaps
as much as 1000 to 40.
Neither need have much on his official
conscience, and the meeting of officers,
which followed the rankers’ gathering,
affirmed their faith in Porter.
My information is that the motion
was inspired not by dissatisfaction
about the system of promotion by merit
and the live-in conditions at the new
officers’ training-college but by Porter’s
to stamp-out larrikinism
in the force by demoting men guilty of
ill-treating citizens, and insisting on full
respect for them.
The police, however, have one legiti-
mate grievance against their higher-ups,
and it is the withdrawal of charges (for
reasons not always evident) against offen-
ders whom they know to be guilty.
Police complain there have been with-
drawals of prosecutions in some instances
after defendants have threatened to report
them to highly placed individuals. It is
natural for a policeman to feel chagrin
when he has been belted in doing his
duty, has not retaliated, and then finds
his case mysteriously withdrawn by his


superiors. But there is also a deeper hurt:
the feeling that he may not be supported.
The police also feel that the commis-
sioner is extremely keen in investigating
cases in which they have “quilted” a
defendant, and in a recent case, when the
charge could not be sustained (although
the evidence was weighty) he removed
the officer from his post anyway.
The commissioner’s determination to
stamp-out any larrikinism at all in the
force must be beneficial to it in the long-
run, but policemen are apt to contrast
the withdrawal of prosecutions against
people they know (from having seen the
act committed) are guilty against the zeal
of finding an erring policeman.
Porter’s attitude will be supported
unquestionably by the public. What hap-
pens to cases in the police-courts is small
beer indeed compared with the retention
in the police-force of men who are unfitted
for it, either by character or temperament.
Nobody is more aware that there is a
percentage of pigs and grafters in the
force than the experienced policeman
himself, and it is freely admitted at
Russell-street headquarters that Porter is
educated, intelligent, earnest and honest.
Yet he does lack the salutary experience
of being a lone policeman attempting to
arrest an offender with a hostile mob at
his back after the Melbourne swill-hour
in such an area as lower Spencer Street,
South Melbourne, or Port Melbourne.
Twelve months on such a beat, say the
older cops, would have made him more
sympathetic to the ranks.
Porter was appointed by the Cain
Labor Government. The late John Cain,
like many of his predecessors as Premier,
felt he had to make a choice outside the
force, possibly because the likely candi-
dates within it were either Catholics or
Masons. (The skirmishing between these
two groups with scores to settle is still
'a luxury within the force because they
have not been driven together by a Red
element.) Cain built him up with
increased departmental votes, and Rylah,
one of his keenest admirers, has increased
it quite extravagantly ; but the feeling in
the force is that it is better to have a
man to support you—right or wrong—
than a new bike.
It is obviously Porter’s aim to demon-
strate that men in the wrong will not be
supported.
Beef Prices
[From Canberra]
The marked upward movement in the
price of frozen beef in the United King-
dom could be of benefit to Australia in
forthcoming negotiations on the 15-year
meat-agreement with the U.K. In recent
weeks the price has increased by 6id.
sterling a pound to 22d. a pound.
Under the 15-year agreement Aus-
tralia was guaranteed a satisfactory
market, and open-market prices must be
taken into account when prices for the
three years of the scheme —1961-64—are
being negotiated.
Coincidental with the price-movement,
recent reports point to the possibility of
substantial reductions in deliveries of
Argentine beef to Britain.
Authorities in the Argentine are
becoming increasingly concerned about
the large-scale slaughtering, including a
high percentage of breeding-cattle, for
sale on the export market. This feature
alone must have an effect on the future.
Because of the combined factors, the
Australian Meat Board is looking at pros-
pects today in a much more favorable
light than it has done for some time past.
Calling the P.M.G.
The English can at least teach most other
people of the world something about
public service. They begin with an
original theory that service is meant to
serve the public first (and cheaply) and
the civil servant second.
An example of their habit of adapting
themselves to new conditions while prac-
tising this tenet is to be seen in their
reorganisation of the telephone services of
the U.K. to accord with a period of rising
costs, the result being all the more aston-
ishing since the telephone is certainly not
a popular instrument with most English-
men —or even Englishwomen.
It sounds like reading about another
world to learn that the British P.M.G.
is adopting steps to “make telephone-
calls cheaper.”
One of these steps, to become effective
on July 1, is to initiate a system which
presently will become general as the
national telephone network is made-over
to direct dialling of trunk-calls. By 1960
it will apply to 46 big towns and cities
and by 1970 it will be effective through
three-quarters of the country.
The basic change will be supplemented
by a “cheap-call period” extending daily
from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m., and from 2 p.m.
on Sundays to 6 a.m. on Mondays—at
present there is a four-hour cheap service
every evening.
The scheme is to abolish the present
three-minute minimum charge for trunk-
calls and the unlimited period of local
calls and replace them by a system under
which there will be a basic twopenny
charge. It will be possible for the sub-
scriber to make a directly dialled trunk-
call from his own telephone for two-
pence, provided the call is short enough.
The trunk-call charge which exists and
also the local call charge will be reduced.
As an example—believe it or not —of
the charges within the area in the U.K.
over 125 miles, a one-minute call will be
Is. (Hd. Australian, a two-minute call
2s. Id., and a three-minute call 3s.
Under the present system the charge
would be 4s. 4|d. Australian equivalent.
The new charge is on the basis of 2d.
(sterling) for 12 seconds, the minimum
for which a call can be metered.
Local calls will be timed, and the
charge for them will be 2d. for three
minutes, instead of 3d. for an unlimited
time. During the “cheap-rate period”—
that is for the night-half of every day and
for 16 hours on Sunday-Monday, local
calls will be 2d. for six minutes. The
rate at telephone-kiosks will be exactly
the same as on private telephones, but the
time will be sold in threepenny periods.
The whole of the changes are made
possible because, with a time-charge, calls
cafi be monitored by machine. Universal
dialling for trunk and local calls alike
will make for telephone self-service and
reduce the staffs of trunk exchanges,
and simpler accounting will be possible
because of the metering of calls. Bills
are to be sent out quarterly to lessen
the impact.
A new type of public kiosk is to go
into opertaion, with a slot for a three-
penny-piece. To make a trunk-call from
a kiosk the caller will lift the receiver,
dial his number, wait till the receiver at
the other end is lifted, when a buzz will
tell him to put his threepence in the slot
to begin the talk. For extension of time
he merely answers each fresh buzz with
a fresh threepence.
In Australia anybody who wants to
make a few calls from a public ’phone-
kiosk needs a special pocket to carry the
pennies, and the task of making a trunk-
call is beyond the resources of anybody
who is not fitted-out with a private
’phone or cannot get to a post-office.
One effect of the new U.K. system will
be to make ladies who sit for half-an-
hour in a public box pay accordingly.
As for charges, a three-minute call at
ordinary times from Sydney to a place
within the 250-300 mile zone in N.S.W.,
for example, would cost 9s. in ordinary
hours compared with the 3s. lyd. for
the same call in the United Kingdom.
Also, it is odds-on that any change in the
Australian system towards Subscriber
Trunk Dialling (S.T.D.) will be accom-
panied by an increase of charges on the
plea of the cost of outlay to introduce it.
"All-numbers" for Brisbane
Brisbane will be the first capital-city in
Australia to employ the all-numbers
system of dialling telephone-subscribers
connected with automatic exchanges.
Sydney stole a slight march on the rest
of Australia when the new code was
introduced a few months back in the
suburb of Cronulla, but it will be
some long time yet before Sydney,
Melbourne and the other capitals adopt
the system completely.
Briefly, the abolition of the combina-
tion of letters and figures in dialling
means only that instead of dialling, say,
BA 4567, the caller will in future dial
21 4567 —2 and 1 at present being repre-
sented by the letters B and A.
P.M.G. authorities envisage no confu-
sion or inconvenience with the new
system, which has worked smoothly in
major overseas telephone administra-
tions ; they say that because it isn’t
intended to abandon the use of letters
on the telephone-dial plates, subscribers
won’t be involved in any inconvenience
or expense.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
HThe new St. Anne’s school at Towns-
ville boasts a clock-tower and a
chiming clock, both unusual in modern
buildings. The bells were given by the
Nottingham Mechanics’ Institute and
were transported gratis by a shipping
company. The clock and striking-
mechanism were built by a Mareeba
medico, Pat Flecker, in four years of
industrious spare-time hobbying. Power-
restrictions during the opening ceremony
(the clock and mechanism are electrically
powered) kept the timepiece out of
action, but the audience heard the chimes
at the correct times —thanks to the Doc’s
agile son and a hammer.—“Bilni.”
♦ ® $
“P.0.M.C.”: In some w'ay symbolising
David Jones’ 120th birthday, he was wear-
ing a false nose and old-fashioned cycling-
suit and wheeling a penny-farthing bike
along Pitt Street, Sydney. Leaning it against
a post, he walked towards a shop, changed
his mind, returned and continued wheel-
ing the bicycle along the street. “What’s
up, mister?” yelled an urchin from the
kerb. “Are you frightened they’ll tow it
away?”
❖ ❖ ❖
“W.P.T.”: During a popular radio-
programme broadcast from Wollongong
(N.S.W.) the compere asked a child what
she thought about Wollongong. She said,
“We have plenty of bus-stops but no
buses, and a clock on a shop that never
shows the right time.”
❖ *> ***
“Imperial 55”: The parade swung
down the street, the band resplendent in
red and black, the drummer proud in
his leopard-skin apron. Behind the band,
representatives of the three services.
Another band, this time a juvenile show,
stepping out bravely and just as con-
fident as the big boys. But the bass-drum
was a tandem aft'aii—one small boy in
front carrying the another small
boy at the back doing the banging. More
marchers ; then another small-boy band ;
another tandem bass-drum. But this com-
bination wasn’t so happy. The boy in
front couldn’t keep in step and every
time the boy behind banged the drum
it knocked him on the head. He was
getting an earbashing and a pain-in-
the-neck!
«j«
“P.C.R.”: A gem of an excuse for a
speeding-charge fell on deaf ears in the
Brisbane Traffic Court. The magistrate
fined the" culprit quid, plus costs.
The accused, a youth of 18, said he
had his tank too full and petrol was over-
flowing. He was speeding to burn a bit
of it up to lower the level in the tank.
<s*
“Kenyas”: My dentist has a hatred of
Communism and all its ways, but be has
also a patient who thinks that everything
done by the U.S.S.R. is wonderful. All
the same, I imagine the tooth-doctor gets
the best of the argument: whenever the
•chap-in-the-chair as much as mentions
Holy Russia, he gets water squirted into
his mouth and is told to spit.
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Haroker”: Making a ’phone-call to a
Commonwealth department I was given
some information by a switchboard-
operator, who finished with “Thank you
son.” Being 62 years of age I felt rather
flattered, but couldn’t help wondering
how old my switchboard-mother was.
“And now perhaps you'll realise that I AM boss in this house."
DO IT YOURSELF
“Victorian division of the Road Safety
Council has started a drive with the slogan
‘Help your police to help you!’”
“In the TV-programme ‘Pace the People’
the N.S.W. Police Commissioner, Mr. C. J.
Delaney, said he would regard brutality by
police as a most serious offence.”
Driver on the open road,
Ease the poor policeman’s load!
Do not put it on a cop
If you fail to signal “Stop,"
Double-cross a car-on-right,
Or ignore a traffic-light —
Howsoever you transgress,
Take your name and your address!
If you crack-up, and you think
You’ve been influenced by drink,
Pay no heed to what you say —
Arrest yourself without delay!
. Yet, proceeding to the jug,
Though you call yourself a mug,
Though you struggle wildly in
Your firm grasp, and kick your shin,
Blaspheme and vituperate,
You must not retaliate,
Cuff your ear or twist your arm
Or do yourself some secret harm.
Rather let your conduct be
Free of all brutality ;
Heedless of the gaping throng
Gently drag yourself along;
In the station, front the sarge,
Firmly, softly, state the charge —•
And let the word go round the town:
“tie did not let Delaney down!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


They’d been doing a course of lectures
and one of the girls had missed-
out on the previous week. She wanted
to know what happened. I gathered it
was about mythology, because the precis
of the lecture was: “It was all about
some girl who turned herself into a bush
because some feller was chasing her. Got
cold feet or something. Imagine!”—
“Sunray”.
♦♦♦ ♦>
“Metax”: A red dot on the hot-water
tap reminds me of things that redden
with heat, but the green dot for cold is
puzzling. I can’t think of anything going
green with cold. Blue would be better ;it
would remind me of my nose on a frosty
morning.
♦> ♦;< *>
“Winger”: At a football-match in
Perth the referee halted play when a man
went down with a broken leg. The
players gathered round the injured man,
apparently to satisfy morbid curiosity.
This annoyed the ambulance-man in
attendance; he loudly informed the
players that he was present for the express
purpose of dealing with such accidents.
It wasn’t his fault that one of the teams
(as, to his embarrassment, he discovered
later) was composed almost entirely of
doctors from the Royal Perth Hospital,
one of them a Professor of Surgery.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Curio”: Coming from a TV-free
district I also was struck by the number
of antennae in the Redfern-Macdonald-
town (Sydney) area (B. 14/5/’5B). When
I commented to a North Shore friend
that his part of the world showed little
evidence of TV he explained that most of
the North Shore receivers had indoor
antennae. “We do not care to advertise
our vices,” he explained.
♦J* **♦
“Tom Trout”: A" show of new inven-
tions in Paris this year included an
electrically-lit umbrella —very pleasing to
the many who like to read outdoors at
night in the rain. But most appealing to
us hedonists who appreciate that extra
touch of de luxe comfort must be the
w.c. seat with built-in heating—
although at the moment Frenchmen
seem to be provided with a hot enough
seat without the aid of electricity.
♦♦♦
“Eejaypee”: “Sump” claims (B.
7/5/’5B) that there were 24 different Aus-
tralian-made cars before the Holden, but
I doubt if any one person could know
just how many there were, or just how
much all-Australian any one of them
could be. In Brisbane there appeared in
the late ’twenties a light car, the Weege. It
was powered with an unorthodox three-
cylinder engine, and sported a beautifully
streamlined polished-aluminium body.
Other Australian-made cars of that era
were the Davis, Flint, McDonald and
Lincoln—all virtually identical. My
Sydney-built Lincoln has a 27-h.p. Detroit
“Continental” engine, a Dodge chassis,
Timken front- and back-axles and wheels
“Well, as far as I'M concerned, YOU can go back to , Mars!”
and an obviously Packard radiator with a
big blue badge embossed: “Lincoln,
Sydney, Australia.”
♦> *> ❖
. “Hallcraft”: An American magazine
has a half-page advertisement for “the
first guided cough medicine,” which
“speeds relief directly to the cough
control-center.”
“Wusslean”: One activity, at least,
costs no more than it did before the turn
of the century: In Melbourne a man was
fined £5, the maximum penalty, for hav-
ing illegally fitted electrical equipment to
obtain electricity from a disconnected
supply—after he had neglected to pay his
account. An Electricity Commission
inspector told the magistrate that the
maximum fine for that offence in 1896
was a fiver —no doubt it has remained
unchanged because it doesn’t involve
union-labor.
❖ <* ❖
“Fontaine”: After winning on Count
Woodruffe at Bacchus Marsh (Vic.) races
on May 15, jockey Norm Dickens fainted
as he was riding back to scale. Which
recalls a story about the late Sol Green,
big-time bookmaker. In the 1907 he laid
£lOO,OOO to £l,OOO Poseidon-Apologue
for the Caulfield-Melbourne Cups double,
Both horses won. Just after Apologue
had done the job a punter rushed up to
the bookmaker and said, “Don’t pay out
yet, Mr. Green. The jockey’s fainted and
he may not be able to weigh in.” “What’s
he want to faint for?” retorted Sol. “I’m
the one who should be out to it.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“D.C.M.”: The par. on R.A.A.F.
chefs (B. 9/4/’5B) reminds me of a friend
in the R.A.F. in War I. He started as a
kitchen-boy in a fashionable London
hotel, and at 21 was still a kitchen-boy
He had made numerous applications for
chef and assistant-chef and was practically
laughed-at. A chef in a big hotel must be
a Frenchman! Then a kindly old Froggy
he had worked under took him to Paris
and got him an assistant’s job. At the end
of six months, after growing a beard and
changing his name from Morris to


Maurice, he got a reference, altered its
term to six years, returned to London
and secured a chef’s job immediately.
With the 1914 war he volunteered as a
cook in the Royal Flying Corps. The
recruiting-officer was enthusiastic. “But
are you naturalised?” he asked. “Won’t
you be called up as a conscript in
France?” My friend confessed the truth,
and the recruiting-officer, after recovering
from a fit- of hysterical laughter, took him
before the Brigadier. The Brig, nearly
had a fit also, but he wasted no time.
Next day the erstwhile Frenchman was a
flight-sergeant and chef of the head-
quarters officers’ mess.
❖ *> ♦♦♦
. . j
“Tock Emma”: The corner of Mur-
doch and Bannerman Streets, Cremorne,
is improving its figures as Sydney’s busiest
suburban spot for motor-traffic in peak-
hours (B. 9/10/’57). Latest tally gave 460
cars in 20 minutes, an average of 23 a
minute. It was noted that at least 80 per
cent, of cars had one occupant. How
about banning “one-man-one-car” in
peak-hours?
“Bo”: For snappiness of terminology
you’ve got to hand it to the writers of
film-advertising dope-sheets. I have long
accepted that Audrey Hepburn could
have “carred-in” from Los Angeles to
her New York apartment; that Rock
Hudson, after being on location in Vene-
zuela, “boated home” so as to relax
after his labors ; that Rosalind Russell
“trained-out” of Little Rock, Arkansas,
after having completed her latest “assign-
ment”; or that Gary Cooper “planed-
off” for the Mojave Desert to don chaps
and 10-gallon Stetson. But it rocked me
to read that, after completing his latest
film in Spain, Peter Finch “aired-out” to
London as soon as shooting finished. No
doubt, in common with the housewife’s'
sheets, he felt less musty afterwards.
*j* ♦> ♦>
“N.H.”: I was amused to read in a
magazine that we have a lending-library
of paintings at “Crawlers.” It should have
read “Crawley (W.A.).” We are sand-
gropers, yes ; but Crawlers, no.
❖ *l*
“Slick”: I hadn’t heard-tell of her
for years until I bumped into her in
Melbourne. Of course we had to have a
yarn, and being outside one of our
swankiest hotels we went into the
lounge. I felt duty-bound to buy each of
us a small sherry, for which I tipped the
waiter a shilling. We talked on, and some
time later my friend returned the shout
and she, too, tipped the waiter a shilling.
As we rose to leave we felt our meeting
was such a coincidence —she lives back-o-
beyond—that we’d take a ticket in Tatts.
We put the money out on the table while
we stood there deciding on a name for
the ticket. The waiter slid from nowhere,
bowed himself in, grabbed the money,
thanked us and bowed himself out before
either of us could raise a protest. Not
. . . he’d got 7s. on 3s. 4d. worth of
drinks.
♦> ♦>
“Brolga”: ' “Absolutely free to every
buyer of one of our famous suits —a block
of valuable building land.” In the long
ago a Sydney tailor, one Kurtz, drummed-
up extra business with this offer of
blocks he had subdivided in the
Kurrajong-Bilpin area of the Blue Moun-
tains, in those times about as accessible,
though not as useful, as land back o’
Bourke. Most of the new owners shoved-
away the deeds they got with their suits
and forgot them. Now the bitumen
carries a seamless strip of Sunday-
afternoon drivers over the mountains and
much of the road is flanked by healthy
young apple-orchards and a fair quota
of roadside-stalls, the Kurtz-estate is a
number-one headache to Colo shire-
council—it’s been practically impossible
to trace the owners of the blocks for
rating. Council has decided to have a
go at getting some rates from the land,
and has applied to have it resumed.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Metax”: Speckites are only mildly
interested in local-government. In eight
out of 14 municipalities in the west and
north-west, councillors were returned this
year unopposed, and for two vacancies,
one at Ulverstone and one at Burnie, no
nomination at all was received.
❖ ❖ ❖
TTnused to driving his car in the
city, my man was lost —hope-
lessly lost, but too stubborn to admit
it. “Once I get to Flemington Road,” he
said to the chap from whom I’d asked
directions, “once I get there, I’ll be right.”
“Well, in that case, you’re right,” the
chap said ; “you’re in Flemington Road,”
and with a shrug of his shoulders he
mounted his bicycle and rode off.—
“Cowyard Kate.”
THE MAIN CHANCE
“Gentleman would like to meet lady, early
mid.-age, preferably one who has had business
training, view mat.” —Personal column.
Rather unlike the usual cove
Who’s jousting in the lists of love,
This one eschews all stipulation
That he would naturally expect
That any blushing bride-elect
Could rustle-up, sans hesitation.
Some appetising, fancy scran
For delectation of her man ;
Or keep the home-fires brightly glowing
By weekly mowing verdant sward
{To save exertion by her lord)
As well as cleaning, washing and
sewing.
t
Whether her dial’s as rough as burrs
Or beautiful as Deborah Kerr’s
A lack of interest he evinces ;
It seemingly concerns him not
If disposition she has got
Sweeter than unripened quinces.
Her tine of talk might not effulge ;
In queerest places she could bulge,
Yap daily of her “awful dizziness,”
The bunions and the aches she’s got —
For such he doesn’t care a jot
So long as she’s au fait with business.
Perhaps he feels that, after tea,
Instead of screwing at TV
Or at some dance-joint tripping
measures,
With vivid tales of bulls and bears.
Meaty romance of stocks and shares
They both could take their constant
pleasures.
More so than children this should bind
Them twain, Yet this he’ll surely find:
That in this latest organisation
Whatever ex-secretary he’ll land,
The top job in it she’ll command —
She’ll give, not take, all the dictation!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


?■■■
Industry and the Railways No. 1
ill
i
m
saw
mm*
§Si
m
1
5
m
9
m
•J
mm
mm
' ; -
- •, ■ >*» :
\
"SsSiiilfiii
\
K>:W
: ' : ' A-iUk
took
years to flow 5
OFfi
SJP
<6
3$
o:
u.
CO
iS
is;
JOI
From the great blast furnaces of The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd., is
constantly flowing a river of molten metal. But 10,000 years of history
elapsed before it commenced its flow.
Its source reaches back into the mists of time, when Man, In creating fire,
took his first step into the realms of science.
At that exact point in history he became the master of his destiny.
In this, the Atomic Age, fire lifts the temperatures of the furnaces to a
white heat of 3,000 degrees Fahrenheit nearly one third that of the
surface of the sun.
It melts the iron ore and causes to flow the river from which comes iron
and steel to serve the needs of industry, factory and farm.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd., is Australia's largest company and, with its sub-
sidiary companies, employs 35,000 people at plants and installations in every State of
the Commonwealth.
It consumes a fifth of all black coal mined in N.S.W.
The fuel demands of the giant furnaces are enormous one and a
half tons of high-grade coal are needed to turn out each ton of rolled
steel products.
To the great steelworks the New South Wales Government Railways brings fuel to keep
the furnaces roaring and the molten metal flowing through the veins of a nation's industry.
For twenty-four hours in every day, the Railways, itself dependent so much on steel, is
transporting the products of the steel industry somewhere along its vast network.
The prosperity of the State is constantly passing along the great Permanent
Way that Australian steel and workmanship have made possible.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
RAI LWAYS
\


POLITICAL POINTS
Australian critics of the manner in
which de Gaulle was called to office have
been unable to suggest any practicable
alternative. No other party-leader was
capable of forming a Government which
could hold any real hope of bringing
stability und order to France. Everyone
seems agreed that a reform of the French
Constitution is a prerequisite of stable
Government, yet previous attempts to do
this have failed through the fear of
deputies of all parties that the tenure of
their seats would be endangered.
Constitutional reform, it seems, can
come only through de Gaulle. In accept-
ing him the Chamber of Deputies took
the risk that the Government he will
form may degenerate into a dictatorship,
with eventual civil war. In doing so
they accepted President Coty’s verdict
that the alternative was civil war now.
• •
Speculation as to the various forms of
Government possible in Victoria in the
event of Bolte’s L.-C.P. failing to get an
absolute majority in Saturday’s election
turned out to be wasted effort —the Gov-
ernment not only held its majority but
increased it. The exact state of parties
in the new Parliament will not be known
until preferences are distributed in two
doubtful seats —Bendigo and Geelong
West —in which very close finishes may
be expected. Excluding, these, the result
is L.-C.P., 37 seats; C.P., 10,; Labor, 17.
The D.L.P. lost its only seat, Rich-
mond, where Scully went down to
Towers, former A.L.P. member for
Collingwood, which was abolished in the
last redistribution. The D.L.P. overall
vote, however, was larger than in 1955,
a fact of vital interest to Victorian
Federal members.
• •
The Doc., seeking what consolation he
could in the Victorian figures, which must
have been a sad blow to his Federal
hopes, maintained that the “combined
Labor vote” was 52 per cent, and that if
there had been no split Labor would
have won easily. This assumption that
every D.L.P. voter was necessarily an
A.L.P. supporter before the split is quite
fallacious. Analysis of the votes at the
1955 election indicated that a sizable pro-
portion came from former Liberal sup-
porters. Moreover, the significant factor
about D.L.P. voters is not where their
first preferences went before 1955, but
where their second prefs. go now, and
that is preponderantly to the Libs.
• •
Queensland Premier Nicklin asked the
electors of North Toowoomba to com-
plete the hat-trick by returning a Gov-
ernment candidate at Saturday’s by-
election as the electors of Gregory and
Flinders had done. Instead, they made
it third-time-lucky for John Duggan, who
was fighting his third campaign in less
than a year. His score when counting
closed for the night was 5241, compared
with Godsall (Lib.), 2639 and Whittaker
(Q.L.P.) 439. The Labor vote was about
1000 better than at the general election ;
the Liberal correspondingly lower.
After the poll J. Donald, A.L.P. leader,
in the Assembly, announced his willing-
ness to stand down for Duggan. State
of parties in the Queensland Parliament
is: Country party, 24; Liberals, 18;
A.L.P., 20 ; Q.L.P., 11 ; Independents, 2.
• •
Alarmed at the hostility aroused by
the-new road-tax, some Labor M.L.A.s
in N. S. Wales are now saying that they
did not understand the full significance
of the legislation when it was before
Parliament. Country-party leader Davis
Hughes has answered this lame excuse by
reminding them that Transport Minister
Enticknap explained it at length when
he introduced the bill and that Opposi-
tion members pointed-out many of the
things now complained of and proposed
several amendments which were rejected
by the Government.
Proposed amendments included (a)
raising the starting-point from four to
six tons; ( b ) exempting the first 50 miles
of each journey; (c) exempting perish-
ables (particularly foodstuffs) and live-
stock. \
At one stage of the debate, because of
pressure from the Opposition, the Gov-
ernment withdrew the bill for further
consideration by caucus and Cabinet. A
fortnight later it was reintroduced in its
originalTorm and gagged through without
amendment.
• - •
Latest move in the Tasmanian lottery
affair is the decision of Attorney-General
Fagan to resign his portfolio at the end
of the present session of Parliament,
Fagan, who has been in Parliament and
Cabinet for 10 years, says he is physic-
ally well but mentalfy exhausted and feels
unequal to the strain his office imposes
on him. He will continue to sit as a
private member and will not allow his
name to be submitted for a Supreme
Court judgeship.
Meanwhile there’s a rumor that Pre-
mier Cosgrove has ambitions of becoming
the next Tasmanian Governor.
• r •
The Liberal and Country League in
Westralia has proposed to the Country
and Democratic League that the two
parties should unite to form one organisa-
tion. They propose equal representation
on all committees ; equal representation
on the State executive of a combined
party: the pooling of financial resources
and the combination of existing finance-
raising organisations. The L.C.L. State
president is prepared to stand aside so
that a C.D.L. man may be appointed
president of the combined party.
“As your candidate, and not wishing to appear egotistical. .."


Cahill on tour. It’s not true that when
they showed Joe the Empire State Build-
ing he said, “I thought they’d changed
the name to Commonwealth State
Building.”
• •
N.Z. Prime Minister Walter Nash
hopes to be the first P.M. to visit the
South Pole. Not if the Doc. can per-
suade Bob to make the trip!
• •
It will be a long time before the Vic-
torian Premier “Meets the Press” again
on TV. In a session in which the four
Victorian party-leaders were questioned
by pressmen, the first shot at Bolte was:
“Is it a fact the Federal Treasurer
described you as the most reckless
Treasurer in living memory?” Bolte
has been complaining to his friends that
it was an hour before he recovered from
the shock ; by then the show was over,
and the witty reply dry on his lips.
• •
N. S. Wales Railways deficit is now
expected to be about £7 million, com-
pared with the £4.8 million anticipated
last September when estimates were
presented. Commissioner - McCusker
won’t commit himself to the full £7
million, but says the deficit will be con-
siderably bigger than the Budget figure.
He blames the drought, which has meant
lighter wheat- and wool-haulings, ■ as
well as freight concessions on stock in
affected areas. There is no doubt that the
drought in N.S.W., as well as y lower prices
for wheat, wool, metals, etc., wilf have
wider repercussions than are at present
realised. The N.S.W. railways have
also been affected by changes in the source
of coal-supply for electricity-under-
takings. They don’t get the haulage now.
• •
The astonishing increase in the popu-
larity of air-travel is shown in figures
released by the Commonwealth Statis-
tician. Last year 83,777 persons arrived
in Australia by air and 73,762 left by air.
The corresponding figures for passengers
by sea were 149,551 and 80,834. The
inward figures for sea-travel naturally
include the bulk of the year’s migrants.
• •
Eddie Ward will be disappointed if
D.J.’s don't send him a piece of their
birthday-cake.
• •
Speaking in Bathurst on the N. S. Wales
Government’s plan to extend the
boundaries of that city and of Orange
and Lithgow at the expense of surround-
ing shires, Councillor A. C. Marshall,
president of the Shires’ Association of
N. S. Wales, referred to the City of the
Blue Mountains, which covers an area of
som« hundreds of square-miles, mostly
bush and ravine. He said he had driven
for several miles through that city with-
out seeing a traffic-cop, a street-light or
even a building. “Imagine,” he said, “the
Puzzlement in the minds of people over-
seas when they read in the Australian
cables, “Hikers lost for three days in the
City of the Blue Mountains.”
• •
No reasonable person is likely to
quarrel with the Federal Government’s
decision to allow Mrs. Little, a Japanese
war-bride who has divorced her Aus-
tralian husband for desertion, to remain
in Australia. She was accepted into Aus-
tralia five years ago and her son was born
here. The fact that her marriage has
broken-up through no fault of her own
is no reason for expelling her from the
country of her adoption.
• •
“J.J.A.”: The fact that the population
of Melbourne is increasing faster than
that of Sydney made headlines in the
Maryborough “Advertiser.” They ran:
“Melbourne Population Overtaking
Sydney. WHAT A TRAGEDY!”
Indeed, yes.
* •
According to “News-Weekly,” which has
the same brand of politics as Santamaria,
a substantial proportion of the A.L.P.
election-campaign expenses in Victoria
was paid by s.-p. operators, since it was
an open secret that Bolte proposed, if
re-elected, to introduce off-the-course
tote agencies (which the rating clubs and
his Ministers favor) to eliminate the
street-corner bookie.
The sheet also claims s.-p. men are
being touched for £lOO apiece for the
election, and also asked for a further
contribution to “fight the introduction
of an off-course totalisator” by a Bolte
Government. Now what could be the
purpose of a fund after an election? To
stir a few consciences against an
“extension of gambling”?
• •
In a radio plug the N. S. Wales Rural
Bank is described as “the bank that makes
its money work.” That £4 million it lent
Metropolitan Cement has certainly been
doing some hard yakker—and at cut-rate
wages, too.
• •
A generous gesture was offered to
Melbourne City Council by the City
Development Association, an energetic
group of, chiefly, younger businessmen —-
a four-pool fountain in Snowden
Gardens, south of Princes Bridge.
Almost at once the council was offered
two other fountains by businessmen. By
the end of the year the council may have
in full spout three fountains without a
coin.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: When Liberal M.H.R.
Roy Wheeler told the Constitutional
Association in Sydney that not only were
private members being submerged and
stripped of authority by the growth of
the party-system but that Parliament
itself was being superseded as the reign-
ing power by the weight of bureaucracy,
“in whose top officials the real power
resides, 14 he may have started something.
Wheeler said he had found this trend
world-wide, and he is deeply concerned
that, in Canberra especially, the officials
often do not have an understanding of
the realities in the life of the ordinary
man. , He has been struck by the “com-
plete indifference” they sometimes show
to public opinion and what the public
wants. It takes a lot to cause a stir in
the ranks of top-flight bureaucrats and
smug Cabineteers, but Wheeler is to be
applauded for trying.
• •
Only one public corporate body in
Germany is recognised today in both
the Federal Republic and the Soviet zone
—the E.K.D., the all-German synod of
the German Protestant church. It recently
held a dramatic meeting, with some
sessions in West Berlin and others in East
Berlin. Bishop Dibelius declared with
great regret that the Communist authori-
ties and organisations in East Germany
y/ere conducting their atheistic campaign
against Christianity in ever more radical
forms, and he asked whether Christians
in the Soviet zone were already regarded
as “second-class citizens.” In East
Berlin there was a “demonstration”
against the synod, which was reaffirming
its desire to attain a tolerable relation-
ship with authorities of the Soviet zone,
and subsequently a high church official
from Gorlitz was publicly accused of
being “an enemy of the State and people”
because at Berlin he had criticised the
Communist attack on the synod. Church
prospects in East Germany don’t seem
too bright.
• •
Unless the present methods of bulk-
loading are improved, the Victorian
A.R.U. threatens to form a transport-
company to compete with the railways
and, of course, the private contractors
who are allegedly making “huge profits”
at the expense of the railways. The
union hates to see profits being frittered
away on people who are prepared to
work for them.
• •
Altona Shire Council (Vic.) is con-
sidering for the third time an applica-
tion to build a £2-million carbon-black
factory at Altona. It isn’t that it doesn't
want the factory and the increased spend-
ing power it would bring to the district.
What the councillors (and residents) fear
is that fumes and dust from the factory
will prove a nuisance—carbon-black is
one of the most finely divided substances
known.
It is now believed that the co. will
undertake to compensate the owners of
any property damaged by production.
• •
America has offered to open areas of
the United States to Russian travellers if
Russia will make a similar move ; the idea
is that the areas should be “comparable.”
Such as thp Lenin mausoleum for Grant’s
tomb ; Red Square for Coney Island ; the
Kremlin for the Pentagon?


PERSONAL ITEMS
Arthur William Turner, of Croydon
(Vic.), assistant-chief of the division of
animal health and production of the
C.5.1.R.0. and winner of the Australian
Veterinary Association’s Gilruth Award
for 1958, is an 0.8. E., a Doctor of Science
and Doctor of Veterinary Science. When
Dr. Gilruth was organising and leading
the division of animal health and nutri-
tion, Turner was for many years one of
his senior staff-members. Then he went
to Townsville (Q.) in charge of the
C.5.1.R.0.’s Oonoomba research lab.
E. C. A. BROWN, Director, Posts and
Telegraphs, Brisbane; born, Norseman
(W.A.), 48 years ago; joined the postal
service, 1926; time off for service with
the A.I.F., 1943-45; Director, Posts and
Telegraphs, Hobart, 1955; transferred to
Brisbane, 1957.
Physics Professor C. B. A. McOusker,
who has been studying atomic radiation
in the Dublin Institute of Advanced
Studies, will spend a year with Sydney
University’s Professor of Physics, Harry
Messel, trying to find-out where cosmic
rays come from, and what cosmic
radiation is.
• •
Brian Herbert Hughes is one of the
up-and-coming graziers of the C.Q. coast.
He was born and educated at Grafton
(N.S.W.), near where he still has interests
in Newbold station, and he was brought-
up among cattle. At the age of 15 he
headed for the Gulf, whpre he learned
the rugged end of cattle-work on Koola-
tah and Lome Hill stations. He enlisted
at 20 and served with the Pioneers in
Syria, at Alamein and in N.G. At
Finschafen he collected a m.-i.-d. and a
commission. He has two Queensland
properties now Tierawoomba and
Picardy, both in the Nebo district —and
he is vice-president of the C.Q. Graziers’
Association and a Nebo shire-councillor.
Legacy and the R.S.L. annually benefit
from the sale of the fat bullocks he
exhibits at Mackay Show.
• •
In Sydney for the sheep-sales, Dan
Capel, of Tiabundie, near Barraba
(N.S.W.), flew with the Air Force
(D.F.C.) in World War II and later for
B.C.P.A. until he took over the running
of the family sheep-property from his
father, Lyle Capel. The family. was
among the pioneers of Barraba and has
been there for over a century—the first
Daniel Capel came up from Victoria in
the 1840’s to Maitland and then settled
at Piedmont, where Capels still live.
• •
“Maitri” on two Christians:
Two Methodist ministers, renowned for out-
standing social work in N.S.W., retire from
active service this year: the Rev. F. H. Ray-
ward, 0.8. E., D.D.-, and the Rev. S. W.
McKibbin.
For the past 20 years superintendent of
Sydney’s Central Methodist Mission, Rayward
was born at Bowral (N.S.W.) in 1891, educated
at country schools and at Newington and
Leigh Colleges, and ordained in 1916. Import-
ant appointments have included the Manly
(Sydney) and Newcastle Central Methodist
Missions, and he was the first secretary of the
Australasian Council of Churches. A keen
gardener and aviculturist, his dapper figure
always adorned (when he’s out and about)
with a buttonhole flower culled from his own
garden, it can be said with real meaning that
he will be sorely missed by members of the
huge congregation regularly attending the
Lyceum Hall, but most of all by aged and
invalid pensioners.
Sunday at the Central Methodist Mission
is the great day for the underprivileged, it’s
then they leave their depressing single rooms
and hie off to town, First, theie’s the service
in Wesley Chapel; then lunch, followed by
films in the Lyceum Hall; then, usually, bright
musical items and a popular talk. After that
come tea and a long gossip; the evening ser-
vice; an organ-recital; and, when the service
is ended, a social half-hour or so—all this under
the one roof. Perhaps it doesn’t sound wildly
exciting, but when your total income’s some-
thing just over £4 a week such a Sunday away
from your lodgings can be a real bit of
Heaven. Much of the pleasure and inspiration
the old and unfortunate get out of it is due
to Rayward’s kindly, breezy personality. One
reason for his popularity is his keen sense
of humor: he’s always coming to light with
some amusing anecdote and doesn’t mind
when the joke’s at his expense.
The Rev. S. W. McKibbin (“Mr. Mac”) is
at present minister of Ashfield Methodist
Church, but is principally remembered for his
self-sacrificing labors at Balmain and New-
town Missions. As superintendent at Balmain
during the depression his efforts on behalf of
the unemployed were monumental, and both
at Balmain and Newtown he gave inestimable
service to sick and poor pensioners. Often
when “Mr. Mac” and his helpers turned-up in
bitter winter weather at miserable tenement
rooms with blankets, food and clothing, he
must have seemed to the old ladies and gentle-
men who benefited (they were wellnigh in
extremis) something of an angel of mercy and
light. A son of Irish parents, he was a coal-
miner before being ordained to the ministry.
He, too, has the kind of personality which
inspires confidence and optimism.
Simon Hickey, the old-time
Labor man, dead in Sydney, at 80,
belonged to the days of Holman’
McGowan, Carmichael, Beeby and
Nielson. He represented Alexandria in
the Assembly, and for a shorter time was
Speaker. Another link with the party
was his wife—daughter to Dacey, the
Minister after whom Daceyville is named.
Born near Mudgee, N.S.W., he graduated
through casual bush work, shearing and
bar-tending to saddlery and in later years
to the building-up of a highly successful
business in Chippendale. He was a
frequent contributor of pars, to The
Bulletin.
• •
The first time The Bulletin —or its
representative— met A 1 McDonald, who
is currently contesting Tennant Creek in
the N.T. Legislative Council elections,
was at the Tennant about 20 years ago.
A travelling circus had arrived in town
and the entertainment proffered included
a challenge, backed by a tenner, to any
local boy who could go a round or two
with the circus fighter. McDonald, who
was then opening-up his own mine, the
Black Angel, was the obvious local
challenger, and The Bulletin’s rep., and
the then member for the N.T., A. M.
Blain,' were appointed to his corner. It
was a very brief appointment—the circus
fighter, a light and speedy lad, dancing
like a gadfly around the heavy sunburned
miner, came a shade too close and it was
all over. McDonald, a New Zealander
who came ashore from a ship on which
he was stoking and started fighting in
Brisbane, subsequently fought his way
pretty well right around Australia,
finishing-up flat broke in Broome during
the depression. Hearing of a job at a
a. McDONALD
then little-known place called Tennant
Creek, he and a mate “scalped” their
way across from Broome in an old jalopy
and, at the Tennant, sank what was
possibly the first shaft on the field for
Jack Noble. The Territory has treated
McDonald well since then —he has fol-


lowed gold, cattle, wolfram, uranium,
tin, etc., with varying degrees of success
—and he swears by it as the finest of
all places to live. His superb physical
condition, his wife —a Tennant Creek
girl—and his three sons now at school
in Adelaide would all seem to support
that claim.
• •
Pat Lawlor: There have been two
famous hotelkeepers named Paddy
Griffin in N.Z. The first, who died over
a decade ago, owned the Gresham in
Wellington and was the favorite of
Cabinet Ministers, police-heads and
editors of his day. The second Paddy
Griffin, who died in Auckland recently,
aged 95, wasthe genial boss of the
Oxford Hotel in Freeman’s Bay for 40
years. He retired four years ago.
• •
Sir Giles Chippindall, until recently
Director-General of Posts and Telegraphs,
has joined the board of Telephone and
Electrical Industries Pty., Faraday Park,
Meadowbank (N.S.W.). Chippindall was
born in Gympie (Q.) in 1893, had a
Victorian State-school and business-
college education, and became a
telegraph-messenger at 15. He rose
rapidly in the. P.M.G. service, and had a
lapful of jobs during World War 11,
including that of Director-General of
War Organisation of Industry. He took-
over the top job in the post-office in 1949,
and with it posts in Commonwealth tele-
communications and airlines. He was 65
on May 20.
• •
After 34 years’ service, most of it in
the W.A. Police Traffic Branch, Inspector
Tom Hulin leaves the force to become
Chief Parking Inspector, a post newly
created by the Perth City Council. Before
promotion to inspector he was prosecut-
ing sergeant in the Perth Traffic Court
for several years. Son of a Pembroke-
shire farmer, he came to Westralia with
the intention of going on the land but
went on the beat instead. Bowls, fishes
and likes Soccer.
• ©
Ted Michel, personnel-manager for the
Melbourne organising committee during
the XVlth Olympic Games in 1956, has
been appointed administrative assistant
to the technical director of the VUlth
Olympic Winter Games. Part of his job
will be to assist in planning the Olympic
Village at Squaw Valley (California) for
the 1960 games.
• •
Claimed as an N.Z. record, and cer-
tainly rare anywhere —twin brothers
Charles and Isaac Longstaff, recently
celebrating at Inglewood their 91st birth-
day. They came to New Plymouth
(N.Z.) from Lincolnshire in 1875 as the
youngest of a family of 14.
• •
Walter William Killough, chairman
and managing-director of International
Harvester, and Alwyn Bowman Barker,
managing-director of Kelvinator, have
been elected Federal president and
deputy-president respectively of the
Australian Institute of Management.
Killough, bom Hobart (U.S.A.), hails
from Melbourne these days, and Barker
from Adelaide.
• •
In 40 years Stanley Louis Mowbray
Eskell has covered quite a bit of ground.
Hailing from Perth, he graduated from
Duntroon in 1939, joined the Darwin
Mobile Force on the outbreak of
War 11, and also served at the Staff
College in New Guinea,
and in the U.S. (first
at the Command and
Staff School at Fort
Leavenworth, later as a
member of the Aus-
tralian Military Mission
in Washington). Then
into a business career
and with other full-
time interests: chair-
man of the South
Pacific Post, Ltd., and
several other companies
in New Guinea (agri-
cultural as well as
press), director of
several Australian cos.,
a member of the
Nuclear Research
Foundation of Sydney
University (and its dele-
gate in two overseas
conferences), on the
Board of the Water Research Founda-
tion of Australia, sworn-in a few
weeks back as an M.L.C. in N.S.W., and
now due to take over command of
14th Infantry Brigade, C.M.F., which
has been increased to four battalions, the
new one being his old regiment, the
U.T.R.
• •
U.K. scientists attending Sydney Uni-
versity, June 2-6, for the symposium on
the peaceful uses of atomic energy, with
particular reference to its application to
Australia, include H. M. Finniston, D. J.
O’Connor, H. H. Gott and F. W. Fenning.
Concurrently an atomic-energy exhibition
will be on display in Sydney Town Hall.
• •
Louis Goldberg, Melbourne Univer-
sity’s new G. L. Wood Professor of
Accounting, is one of the most reserved
men at the shop but has been round
quite a lot. First a Faradav-street State-
school boy in industrial Carlton, he went
on to Coburg and University High
schools, has been a member of the Com-
monwealth Institute of Accountants and
the Institute of Secretaries, and has prac-
tised as a municipal auditor.
He won his Master of Commerce and
Bachelor of Arts degrees, was appointed
to a lectureship in accountancy in 1946,
a senior lectureship in 1949, and asso-
ciate to the redoubtable Sir Alexander
Fitzgerald last year.
Although they are not the sort of
publications the Red Page would seize
on with a happy cry, he has also got out
seven books or pamphlets, solid and fasci-
nating works, on accountancy and its
philosophy.
S.L.M. ESKELL
Sighted in Fremantle on his way home
to New York, Peter Fraser, a 30-year-old,
bearded, six-foot-three schoolteacher, who
has gathered enough first-hand material
for a lifetime of geography lessons during
two years of land-and-sea roving through
the Pacific, New Zealand and Australia.
He crossed the Pacific in four different
windjammers, stopping for four months
in Samoa, where he taught English at
the request of a tribal chief. .Hitch-
hiking through the Australian inland last
year, he met and joined the expedi-
tion which discovered the previously
unknown Bindaboo aboriginal tribe.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 57, George P. Kallis, popular
leader of Westralia’s Greek community. Arriv-
ing in Westralia from Greece in 1916, he
helped to found the Hellenic Community of
W.A. in 1923, becoming treasurer in 1923 and
president in 1947.
In England, in a car-crash near Arundel,
Sussex, pianist Richard Farrell, a New
Zealander, who gave his first broadcast at
the age of four and who, at 17, won first-
prize in the A.B.C.’s 1944 Concerto and Vocal
Competition.
In Brisbane, at 85, d’Arcy Winten, prominent
in Queensland grazing and turf circles for over
60 years. He bred Bernborough.
In Melbourne, at 62, Frank Rowe, Director-
General of the Social Services Department in
Melbourne for the last 17 years. He was Deputy
Commissioner for Repat. in Queensland, 1923-35.
In Adelaide, at 55, Lance Townsend Gun,
solicitor and former inter-State cricketer. He
was a left-handed opening bat and they still
talk about his first-wicket partnership with
A. J. Richardson against Westralia at the
Adelaide Oval (1925-26 season) which resulted
in a total of 313 (Gun finished with 129,
Richardson 227).


ABORIGINALITIES
THE FLYING TOOLBOX
Because of the intricacies of her
problem Nature dithered round a bit
before she perfected the pollen-gatherers.
What she actually wanted was a sort
of miniature housewife, set up with a
little hearth-brush, dustpan and basket,
astride a helicopter small enough to
camp under a bottle-top. So she cast
about and finally settled on the wasp-
family. But as pollen-gatherers they were
failures. They were the forerunners of
“Go for your life! I heard they're going to clean-up the prickly pear!"
the forgetful plumbers, and when they
arrived on the job-site they found they
had no tools to work with.
This they duly reported. The old lady
thereupon thought hard and started fixing
them up with a patch of spikes on their
undercarriages. Some pollen-grains did
catch in these hairs as the wasps worked
over the flower-heads, and thus, tortu-
ously, the first tool was machined for
the big task ahead.
Being shrewd, the dame then
approached the job from the other end.
She plugged away at the flowers till they
produced hooks on the pollen-grains and
knobs and spikes and spines and prickles.
Later she scrubbed the big wasps and
fastened-on to alert, smaller fellows of
the same school. Over an aeon or two
she taught them to spit on the pollen, roll
it into a tight ball and sling it over their
shoulders, or hug it close to their bellies
and get it home that way. If you watch
one or two of the tiny native bees work-
ing pollen you’ll see them still at it.
Anyhow, the job was lagging. They
got so far behind with the work the wind
had to help, but it was too wasteful.
The plants practically worked themselves
down to the fibre producing a thousand
grains to get one on the spot. Finally,
either disgusted or intrigued, the old lady
sweated out a blue-print for a flying
toolbox. Its chitinous fuselage some time
later bore the legend apis mellifica —
the honey-bee.
On the nose of this pollen-gathering
machine she dabbed a pair of reaper-
hooks that chewed and scraped the
flower-anthus and so loosened the grains.
Amidships she provisioned a barrel of
nectar fitted with suction-pump and hose-
and-nozzle for dampening-down and
mixing the dry and dusty pollen into
mortar.
By a modification of the landing-gear
she set up, with the aid of brushes, an
endless conveyer-belt that ferried the stuff
from the harvesting-end back to the
storage-bins. These she scooped out of
the tail-end of the landing-gear and set
right where they wouldn’t upset the
delicate business of flying the stuff home.
They were hind-legs originally, but she
hammered them flat, thinned them out,
scooped a depression in them, then set
spikes through them so that they’d hold
the slippery load.
It took some time, but she was getting
ahead of it by this. The flying tool-kit
did everything it was asked. But back at
the bases turn-round was a bit of a
problem. She thereupon screwed in a
couple of pinch-bars to the middle sup-
ports, which in turn took care of the
unloading as easily and as quickly as, a
millenium or two later, other toilers
dropped bags of bulk wheat into the
escalators.
So far so good. But like all females
the dame kept picking and prying. On
the hind undercarriage there was still
room for a gadget or two, so she stif-
fened-up a comb of hair and set it up
to cut and pick-up wax for comb-building
on wet days. Curl the mo. after that, she
opined. Of course, curl the mo! She
looked under and over this flying tool-
box. Only one place left. She took hold
of the front peg of the landing-apparatus,
honed another little gadget into it just
above one of the sweeping brooms, thus
enabling the ’copter to clean-up the
antennae, or, as remarked, curl the mo.
I’m not too sure how long this flying
tool-kit’s been on the job, and I’m not
even sure that the old lady isn’t planning
another gadget or two to hang off the
tail-end. But, get a gander at it some-
time as you watch a bee working over-
time on a pumpkin-vine, a eucalypt or a
“Bellbowrie.” Watch that conveyer-belt
pelting the stuff back so fast your eye
can scarcely follow it. You’ll
be inclined to agree then that
the smart young joker down
the road, crop-dusting in the
helicopter, swelling his chest
out and talking big-time, is
really just an amateur.
B-herd.
* * *
“Sevenelms”: As log-yard
man, George Blair came to
the Nayook (Vic.) sawmill,
and, being a bachelor,
reported to Mrs. Ryan, who
welcomed him and said the
board was 355., no deductions
for weekends away. George,
blushing (all 6ft. 2in. of him),
suggested that as he ate a lot
he pay 455., but she scorned
the idea. Friday night, having
jammed his crosscut in a
pipey ash-butt, he was last
and alone at evening meal ; he
polished-off his soup, meat
and pudding, and then started
into the bread-and-jam. Little
Katy Ryan, seeing the latter
running low, brought, with George’s
fourth cup of tea, a freshly opened 270 z
tin of melon-and-lemon. As he spread the
last spoonful of this on his fourteenth slice
of bread Mrs. Ryan decided to accede to
the original request for a preferential
tariff, and thereafter, with a clear con-
science, George did justice to the meals.
* * * *
“Spun W.”: Have also known of
another misspelt bird (B. 21/5/’5B). Was
mystified to read of an awk until I later
discovered if was actually a heagle.
♦ * * *
“Tackline S”: Air-pockets might keep
a foundered vessel suspended between
the surface and ocean-floor (B. 21/5/’5B),
but it is unlikely. No such vessel has been
known to drift ashore eventually in some
distant place. Probably the Kiama
shifted because of a shifting seabed. This
happened to the famed S. S. Flying
Enterprise, which sank in a known spot
after Captain “Stayput” Carlsen finally




“It's long past your bedtime !”
disembarked. She is known to have
travelled several miles on and with the
seabed, the bottom of the English
Channel being continually on the move.
If a brick could sink 27 miles it would
remain at that depth, sea-density resisting
the weight of downthrust. A ship, not
being homogeneous, would “find its
level” at some other depth, except that no
ocean is sufficiently obliging to offer
scope for the experiment.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: “Dune” (B. 21/5/’5B) is
botanically reckless when he condemns a
guava (Psidium feijoa) as fruit-fly bait
because he thinks it a flowering tomato
(Solanacae betaoea). From kindly Abo.
mentors I now know that the pronuncia-
tion is fee-ho-ah, and that it is not a
Chinese gooseberry, a tree-tomato, or a
Peruvian persimmon. They told me how
to grow it and they even sent me boxes of
ripe fruit so I should taste it. Advisable
also, they said, to keep secret from the
children that the fuchsia-like flower con-
tains a large amount of nectar that is
delectably suckable —that is, if you wish to
harvest the six bushels of delightful fruit
a normal bush will bear.
* * * *
“Alma”: Man’s uses for his oldest
friend are many and varied. Our s.-p.
bookie was nabbed shortly after sending
his pooch away for veterinary attention.
Biddy had been his “cockatoo.”
* * * *
“Sanasi”: I have a theory that the
Bindaboos of Central Australia are really
the Pintapus, who were well known to
members of the old S.A. Mounted Police.
My Dad was a member of this
force and was also in the anthropological
expedition to the Aruntas in 1904. One
interesting fact emerges from Professor
Donald Thomson’s study of the Binda-
boos: he found that three introduced
pests—the fox, the domestic cat gone wild,
and the rabbit —are all on the tribe’s menu.
It is the first time I have heard of any-
body eating a fox and, after all these
years, it proves Oscar Wilde to be wrong
—he described fox-hunting by the English
as the unspeakable after the uneatable.
* * * *
“Alma”: Had always thought Larnaca
(a parish in northern N.S.W.) to be a
native name until I read of a Larnaca in
Cyprus. I’m wondering about names of
other parishes. Anyone know whether the
names Murra, Tartoo and Tinna belong
to the Old World or the New? Con-
versely, I had always believed Orana,
widely used as a street-name, to belong
originally to Europe. Now a student of
aboriginal names tells me that it is the
native word for “welcome.”
* * * *
“Curio”: Among a line of weeping-
willows near Carcoar (N.S.W.) there are
two of the basket variety. The curious
thing is that all of them lose their
leaves, and come into leaf again, at the
same time, whereas the usual thing is for
basket-willows to lose their leaves
earlier, and to become green again later
than the weeping variety. An example,
perhaps, of environment being stronger
than heredity.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: More than a million
species of insects are known to man, and
he’s finding new species at the rate of
about a 100 a year. Some insects have
solved the problem of virgin birth and
some, after producing live young through-
out a spring and summer, can revert to
egg-laying in order to preserve their
species in a form able to withstand the
rigors of winter; some can tolerate
extremes of heat and cold that would
destroy humanity; some can survive
months and possibly years of fasting,
and can live after amputations that would*
kill a mammal; while some have solved
the problem of producing the required
sexes at will and can provide longevity
for certain of their numbers. Taken all
round, insects have many of the neces-
sary attributes for world dominance,
including the urge to fight. But they’ll
have competition. Alfae, those numerous
species of life which hover around the
border separating plants from animals,
have even greater powers of tolerance
and survival. They’re found in snow, in
higher altitudes and latitudes than any
other form of life, and in hot springs
where they alone can survive ; and one
form has demonstrated its powers of
co-operation by combining with a fungus
to form lichens.
* * ♦ *
“Zake”: The damper, generally
„ regarded as having originated in the
mulga, dates back at least as far as Aus-
tralia’s first baker. He was William Bond,
who came out in the First Fleet and began
business in Pitt Street, selling dampers
because the conventional loaf of bread
was beyond the conveniences available
when he first started dough-bashing. He
died in 1838, half-a-century after the first
landing. The damper gets its name, of
course, from being covered with hot coals
—and that stems from the custom of
“damping” a fire with ashes to keep the
red coals alive during the night.
• * * *
“Keskedee”: Our Trinidadian maid-of-
all-work, returning from one of her not-
infrequent confinements, told us that her
latest offspring’s christening would be
immediately preceded by her own wedd-
ing. Declining an invitation to attend
the two ceremonies, we commended her
on her foresight in combining the wedd-
ing breakfast with the christening feast.
Whether this spurred her to further efforts
or not we’ll never know, but the wedding
photograph could have doubled for a
family portrait. Arm-in-arm with her
zoot-suited bridegroom stood our white-
clad bride, her dusky face one radiant
smile beneath its veil and orange-
blossoms. Ranged alongside the happy
couple were their eldest two daughters as
bridesmaids, with a younger daughter and
small son as flower-girl and page-boy
respectively.
* * *
“Deegee”: Feijoas (B. 23/4/’5B) will
do us —we planted ours 15 years ago. It
is now 15ft. high, gets only the Adelaide
skyfall of 21in., no manuring or spray-
ing, and, despite constant and enthusiastic
depredations by the grandchildren, gives
us eight bushels of fruit, delicious for
dessert or conserves. It’s a slow r starter,
but worth growing for its blooms alone.
The fruit-casing makes it hard to tell
when they’re ripe, so just let ’em drop—
they don’t bruise. I understand that
other varieties than sellowiana have
larger fruit of less flavor.


“Miss M.”: Though domestication of
cats seems to have come later than that
of dogs, their association with man and
with superstition is very long-standing.
The ancient Egyptians had “holy” cats,
and a cat-headed goddess, Basth. There
may be a faint echo of these beliefs in
the modern Turkish “holy” cats and
“wishing” cats. “Holy” cats have four
dark marks between their ears, made by
the Prophet’s fingers when he stroked an
ancestor of theirs who had done him a
service. “Wishing” cats grant wishes con-
fided to them after correct ritual has been
observed. The innumerable superstitious
beliefs held in English-speaking countries
may explain why a dislike of cats
(though certainly not of dogs) may be
openly avowed without risk of social
ostracism. And yet, of all animal-books
sold in Australia, those about cats are
the most popular, while notoriously dog-
loving England, with four-million dogs,
has 5,500,000 pet cats. Which may explain
the Chesire Cat’s grin.
* * * *
“Harbel”: The new rigger had just
started and didn’t seem very keen. The
timekeeper, timesheet in hand,
approached the boss with “What’s that
new rigger’s name?” A hard grin came
to the trump’s mouth. “By the way he’s
working,” he said grimly, “it ought to
be Mortis.”
• * * *
“Motuku”: Still looking for satisfac-
tory explanations as to the reasons for
bird-anting (B. 9/4’58), I have not been
able to find any more information than
was given by a Canadian naturalist in
1956. He described, with many excellent
color-photographs, a series of observa-
tions extending over many years, during
which he has watched the behavior of
more than 30 species of birds in thousands
of individual antings. Of many theories
(including those suggested by various
Bulletin writers) he finds that none is
convincing. Though the bird, “in this
strange act of anting . . . seems to gain
an exaltation that might almost be
likened to the ecstasy of a cat over cat-
nip,” he is still in the dark as to what
moves the bird to do it or what causes
the emotional stimulation. The field is
still open to amateur bird-observers, as
well as to scientific workers in several
overlapping fields to solve one of the out-
standing puzzles of ornithology.
SPELLS
If you would love by star and moon
But fear the sun will rise too soon,
Then you must learn to charm away
The doubts that dare to walk by day.
The voices saying in your ear,
“You cannot think when he is near.
Your eyes are brown and his are blue
And what has he to do with you?”
But in your garden's quiet shade
Are spells to make the voices fade.
Distil the sorcery that flows
from darkest petals of the rose;
Reach out and touch a white-winged bird
And try to find the magic word,
Then hear your shrouded shadows pass
Like sighing through the spindle-grass.
If you would love by star and moon
But dread the certainty of noon,
Then you must learn to hold at bay
The doubts that dare to walk by day.
N.SAV.
MENA KASHMIRI ABDULLAH.
CYCLIC SALT
The answer to “Bass’s” problem (B.
14/5/’5B) —the corrosion of his
boundary-fence wires by brackish swamp-
water and also by the sweet spring-water
—is almost certainly “cyclic” salt.
All the surface-waters around Perth—
and in most of the south-west coastal
plain, and inland too—are strongly corro-
sive to iron and steel because of their salt-
content. And by “salt” I mean sea-salts,
consisting chiefly of sodium-chloride
(common salt) and magnesium-chloride.
If “B.” has analyses made of his two
waters (they can be done in the Govern-
ment chemical laboratory for a nominal
fee) the tests will show that even his
“clear sweet water” contains some salt —
perhaps 15 or 30 grains to the gallon.
The swamp-water will contain several
hundred grains. Moreover, they will both
prove to be virtually diluted sea-water —
i.e., sea-water plus rain-water, although of
different strengths. But even the purer
spring-water contains enough salt to
make it very corrosive to metals.
This does not mean that sea-water is
seeping into the area. The salt in the
waters is wind- and rain-borne, and is
known as “cyclic” salt. It is carried in by
the wind as dried salt-spray and brought
down in the rain.
The weather in the south-west of W.A.
during May-September, when most of the
rain falls, comes off the Indian Ocean
from the north-west and west, often
accompanied by wind and gales. Salt-
spray is picked up and carried for miles
inland, usually in the rain. It may be as
much as two or three grains a gallon near
the coast, while at Kalgoorlie, nearly 400
miles inland, a quarter- or half-a-grain
has been detected. Anyone who has
lived near the coast knows how difficult
it is to keep tools and nails free from rust
because of salt in v the atmosphere. Unlike,
say, Hobart, where unpainted iron roofs
last for many years, in coastal W.A. it is
wise to paint a roof with as little delay as
possible.
The same problem holds for the water-
supplies which, though reasonably soft,
contain sea-derived salts and are aggres-
sive to many metals. Hence the “red”
(rusty) water that plagued metropolitan
housewives for years until the steel mains
were lined with concrete.
The reason for the accumulation of salt
in Westralian soils and surface-waters is
the arid summer with the consequent
absence of steady run-off to carry the salt
back to the sea. Evaporation, which is
high, does the rest. Some of the salt
does eventually find its way back to the
sea, hence the term “cyclic” salt.
“B.” would find purer water at the
spring up the hill-side, because much of
the salt there has been washed down into
the depressions and swamps, where con-
centration by evaporation takes place,
giving brackish water. The experienced
well-sinker knows that even if the under-
ground water in the valleys is too salty to
be useful, there is still a good chance of
finding good water at the higher levels.
This has proved the salvation of many a
homestead and farm up-country.
ALCHEMIST.
“Funny time to make a film!”


Business, Robbery, Etc.
THE SLUMP IN PRICES
T>usiness conditions througn-
** out the world are going
through changes of a type with
which many of the present
generation in trade and
commerce are unfamiliar.
There were similar conditions
prior to the outbreak of the
Korean war, but that military
operation- sucked-in sufficient
raw materials and manufac-
tures, as well as manpower, to
reverse the economic course
that had taken a downward
trend in 1951.
The effect of the Korean war
on raw-material prices may
well enough—especially from
the Australian point-of-view—•
be illustrated by the example
of wool. In the 1950-51 season
wool averaged the record price
of 144 d. a pound at Aus-
tralian auctions. In 1951-52 it
plunged down to 72d. just
half. In 1952-53 the effect of
the Korean war had brought it
back to 82d., with about the
same price in the following
year. There was a decline in
1954-55 (to 71d.) and 1955-56
(to 62d.), but in 1956-57 prices
again recovered to around
Korean-war levels. During the
present season they have
slumped again to the lowest
point since 1949.
Costs Much Higher
This slump is felt more
acutely now because of the
fact that costs of production
today are very much higher
than they were in 1949.
The Federal basic wage in
1949, for example, was £6 9s.
a week. Today it is over £l3
a week.
Grains and metals preceded
wool on the way down in this
latest slump in raw-material
prices. The downward trend in
commodity prices has since
spread through most raw
materials, and is now entering
into the price of some of the
simpler manufactures, such as
steel, newsprint, etc.
High levels of industrial
activity throughout the world,
promoted in many cases by
“demand inflation” and aided
by consumer-credit facilities on
an unprecedented scale (more
especially in the United States),
have naturally enough
encouraged expansion of
mining activities and primary
production in countries suited
to them. In Australia output of
wool has increased at a smart
pace over the past few years,
and new mines have come into
production and old ones have
extended their operations,
In the more industrialised
countries of the world, too,
synthetics have made great
advances. Synthetics comprise
pot only substitutes for exist-
ing textiles, such as cotton,
“I don't Want the thousand to bust-up on TV -sets and
cars —I need it for essentials like bread , milk and eggs."
silk and wool, but in the petro-
chemicals industry they are
entering the chemicals field and
affecting the market for
particular raw materials such
as rubber.
‘‘Demand Inflation”
With production of most
materials and synthetics stimu
lated by demand inflation for
some years past, it is natural
that a time should come when
supply would rise up to demand
—even an inflationary demand.
Usually the changeover
from undersupply of com-
modities to oversupply does not
occur gently and with a
lengthy warning. More often it
abruptly follows a boom
period. It did so after 1951,
and (so far as wool is con-
cerned) it has done so in
1957-58, the price of wool for
the preceding season having
been the best for several years.
One of the factors which pre-
cipitated a turn in commodity
markets that was probably due,
anyway, was the releasing of
military stocks of metals and
other raw materials and the
raising of the British Bank-rate
last year. The lifting of the
Bank-rate to 7 p.c. meant that
manufacturers or speculators
in Britain buying commodities
on credit had to pay up to
8 p.c. or 9 p.c. for their
accommodation, and when they
sought to borrow in Australia
rather than in Britain they were
charged a special “disincentive”
rate by the Australian banks to
divert their borrowing away
from the Australian banking
system.
With successive cuts in the
British Bank-rate p.c. now)
it is becoming easier (or
cheaper) for wool-processors to
buy and store wool, and there
has been a firming trend in
wool prices. This may spread
to other prices, in the long-
run ; but there are many other
factors to be considered when
surveying the whole position of
world commodity-prices,
Overproduction?
There is probably actual
overproduction of some raw
materials, though not neces-
sarily of all those which have
fallen in price. But it will take
months for this to sort itself
out fully. There has been some-
thing of a chain-reaction going
on in raw-material pnarkets
over the past year, and market
factors may not at the moment
relate entirely to the funda-
mentals of supply and real
consumer-demand.
It was traditional, in the
years prior to World War 11,
for grains and metals to lead
other commodities down in the
price-slumps that occurred
more-or-less regularly in those
times.
It was also traditional for
countries supplying these
raw materials to have an
economic recession first, and
for the slump then to* spread to
the more industrialised
countries. •
On this occasion the United
States, industrially, went into
its recession very soon after
metals took their steep dip,
and Canada was not far behind.
Recession in the United
States has added to the
problems of countries pro-
ducing raw materials, which
find their markets affected
thereby. But it is likely that
problems of the primary
producer in the United States
were experienced a long time
before the present disconcerting
setback began to make itself
felt.
U.S. Dumping
The dumping of U.S. grain
and dairy-products on the
world’s markets has been
going on for some considerable
time, in fact.
A classical example of the
primary - producing country*
having difficulties is New
Zealand. Its export values are
down all-round, and it is
rapidly running-out of overseas
exchange and buying-power. It
has imposed heavy restrictions
on imports, and more are on
the way.
In Australia our dependence
on imports is not so great as
in New Zealand, but we are
already feeling the pinch of
lower wool prices, and nothing
seems surer than that we, too,
will be forced to cut our rate
of importing before the end
of this year.
Other primary - producing
countries will be in much the
same boat as Australia and
Maoriland, and the effect of
their restricted imports will be
felt in the big industrial
countries of the Old World.
The United Kingdom is bound
to suffer from restriction of
imports by New Zealand and
Australia.
Until there is a recovery in
overseas markets for primary
products, therefore, it seems
that the great trading nations


£
How much of
Your Estate
will your beneficiaries get?
Sp ecialised experience in the intricacies of
Estate Administration may well prove of con-
siderable advantage to you—and your depen-
dants. Union Trustee’s comprehensive services
—available at moderate charges, limited by
Law—ensure fullest conservation of your vssets
and continuous, competent control of your
Estate. Phone, write or call,. There is no
charge—no obligation.
THf
UN I 0
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OP AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated ia Yietoris) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kinipton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria' and the Kiverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald. Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
Tii? Hon Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. .Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon Sir Henry Manning, K.B.E . Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. F. Wright. M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: A. B. Tileinann. Assistant Manager:A. G. SV. Dent.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District Representative
for Newcastle: flu B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Rrenan,; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: K. O. Rpenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charlevilie.
FT27a
of the world will be affected by
a falling-off in trade the same
as the primary - producing
countries.
Lowering Costs
The whole of the Western
world is therefore interested
in the question of raw-material
prices, and the United States,
which comparatively is not a
great trading nation, will
nevertheless be forced into
taking note of world trade from
the point-of-view of world
politics.
Ultimately, however, it will
be best if the problem is solved
on an economic basis. In
reaching any economic solution
it will be found that techno-
logical changes have altered
the outlook for many
industries, and that inefficient
and marginal producers will
have to be eliminated.
From the viewpoint of Aus-
tralia and the United Kingdom
the inherent problem of pro-
duction-costs will be para-
mount. For not only do lower
production-costs mean greater
competitive power; they also
mean that more work is being
done in a given time, and
greater production achieved.
Higher productivity, planned
to suit a particular country’s
economy, is its greatest finan-
cial asset, even during times
when it appears that production
is getting harder to sell.
The Sharemarket Outlook
C'tock Exchange investments
that have close ties with
the raw-material markets of
the world are taking the first
shock of lower commodity
prices. This applies not only
to pastoral and metal-mining
companies, but also to pro-
cessing and broking concerns
interested in the respective
raw materials and metals.
One of the outstanding cases
of a processing concern being
hit hard was that of Patons
and Baldwins, the knitting-
wool people. It raises queries
about other textile cos. carry-
ing stocks of wool. Obviously
woolbrokers selling on com-
mission will be affected directly
by lower wool prices, and
indirectly, in their merchandise
departments, by the reduced
buying-power of their clients.
These first-knock companies
are unlikely to be the only
ones affected by the fall in
commodity prices. There will
be general effects, varying
according to region and type
of industry or business. It
seems certain that, if there is
not a smart recovery in prices
of Australian exports, import-
control will be tightened before
the end of the year. That is
if imports do not automatically
control themselves as a result
of internal financial conditions.
The sharemarket therefore
needs to be approached in the
cautiously selective mood that
was advocated here in
January in an assessment of
the New Year outlook.
There are stocks worth
attention at present prices—
usually cases where there has
been a decline in support for
no apparent reason. Kandos
Cement at around 465. should
offer sound prospects to anyone
prepared to wait a year or two.
Gadsden Hughes has a con-
siderable potential. Bradford
Cotton at 355. offers a good
immediate yield and prospects
of stability and expansion.
Peninsula Plaster and Victor
Electric Plaster, each around
38s. in Melbourne, and Aus-
tralian Gypsum in Sydney at
about the same level, have
high earning-power behind
them. For the smaller investor
a holding in Ford Sherington
(makers of Globite and Regal
travel-goods) can be obtained
at 7s. 9d. for the ss. shares.
This concern has a long record
of well-covered 10 p.c. divs.
behind it, as well as a par-
ticularly strong financial
position. *
Unfair Tariff Incidence
[From “E.A.G.”J
YX7'e placed an order with an
Italian firm on November
21, 1957, for 300 pieces of
59-inch rayon voile. We
received an invoice dated
April 8 covering the shipment
of 9385 lineal yards by a
vessel originally listed to
arrive in Sydney on May 15.
The ship was delayed and did
not arrive in Sydney until May
29. It berthed in Fremantle
on May 7, where the goods
would have been subject to a
duty of Is. 8?d. a yard if
landed then and there. Our
particular consignment, arriv-
ing in Sydney after imposi-
tion of new duties, is now
subject to the increased tariff
rate which will involve approxi-
mately Is. per lineal yard extra
duty, amounting in all to
about £450 on this one
shipment.
We are unable to add the
extra duty to the landed cost
of this material because a
fixed wholesale selling-price has
been established by us at the
old duty rate of Is. B|d. per
sq. yd., and it would be im-
possible for us to pass the
extra charge on to our
customers.
We have a further 300 pieces
of approximately 9000 lineal
yards on firm order for delivery
in Sydney about July, 1958.
... ~ ,
We are at a considerable loss
m connection with the ship-
ment now arriving and the
further shipment still to arrive,
Under the previous duty rate
of Is. Bfd. per sq. yd., the
last shipment of this material
cost 111.6 p.c. to land,
Increased tariff rates should
not apply to goods which are
on firm order prior to the im-
position of such increases;
these goods should be allowed
into the country on the tariff-
rate existing at the time


) Effect all your Insurances with
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
Insurance Company Limited
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
’Phone: BWIOII, BW 1012, 8W4991
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
All types of General Insurance
Directors i
STRUAN ROBERTSON (Chairman)
S. E. A. STIRLING. JAMES H. STEPHENSON.
R. G. GALE. RAYMOND S. GOWARD, C.B.E.
A. C. MAITLAND
Managing Director
N. E. MANION,
Manager
Branchet and Agencies in all Stales.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
WINTON SHIRE COUNCIL
Early History—Winton, Q.
The Council of the Shire of
Winton requires information con-
cerning early history of Winton
District for publication in connec-
tion with Queensland Centenary
celebrations.
Please forward any available
information to Shire Clerk. Winton,
Queensland. Returns guaranteed.
R. C. PALMER, Clerk.
such orders were placed by
importers.
Hire-purchase Phenomenon
|jrißE- purchase on its present
scale is, in the public mind,
something of a phenomenon.
It has run-up to a debt of
$34,000 million in the United
States (about £15,000 million),
and observers outside the U.S. A.
are concerned as to whether
this load of debt around the
necks of the consumer-public
will not precipitate a slump.
Financial authorities in the
U.S.A. themselves are not so
concerned. So far during the
current recession in the U.S.A.
there have been very few
repossessions. But, obviously,
a great deal will depend on how
the economy of the U.S.A. is
going to fare apart from the
particular influence of h.-p.
In Australia hire-purchase
has gone ahead tremendously
in recent times, and now all the
trading-banks are indirectly
engaged in this type of finance.
The last to move was the
Commercial Banking Co. of
Sydney, whose offshoot, Com-
mercial and General Finance,
was floated on a wave of invest-
ment enthusiasm last week.
In the past five years the
volume of hire-purchase debt
outstanding in Australia has
increased about threefold.
The Bank of N.S.W., in a
survey of hire-purchase in Aus-
tralia, points - out that in
March last trading - bank
advances stood at £863 million,
an increase of more than £2lO
million over the five-year
period, but that on the March
averages over the past three
years bank - advances had
actually fallen by about £4
million, while hire-purchase
outstandings rose £lO6 million.
“The expansion of hire-
purchase business has provoked
active discussion, often mis-
informed and distorted, of its
nature and consequences on
a number of planes, social and
economic,” the bank says.
Interest-rates
The bank declares that hire-
purchase interest-rates cannot
fairly be compared with bank-
overdraft rates because the
former must cover a higher
burden of service and collec-
tion charges, and a larger risk
element, while the cost of
money to a hire-purchase
company, raised on the public
market, was appreciably higher
than to a bank.
The bank says that although
hire-purchase expansion has
been extremely rapid in the past
three years, when credit policy
was stringently restrictive, it
can be argued that, to the
extent that the increased busi-
ness was based on funds raised
from the public as share-capital
or loans, it was not inflationary.
“Hire - purchase business
based on bank-advances is,
however, clearly expansionary,”
the ’Wales concedes.
“For this reason, after a
previous period of discourage-
ment of bank lending to hire-
purchase companies, in 1955
the central bank asked the
trading-banks not to grant new
advances for h.-p. transactions.
“Unfortunately, official
statistics do not disclose the
precise extent of bank-
advances for hire-purchase
firms, but, according to the
balance-sheets of 33 h.-p.
companies listed on Australian
Stock Exchanges, which
together -accounted for about
75 p.c. of hire-purchase debts
outstanding, their bank-
borrowing fell from £19.1
million in 1955 to £12.6 million
in 1957.
“It is apparent, therefore,
that these finance-companies
felt a mofe-than-proportionate
share of the general squeeze
on bank-advances in this
period.”
Bank H.-p. Interests
As to direct participation of
trading-banks in the ownership
of h.-p. companies, the survey
says that controversy has
grown around this trend in the
past three years.
The banks had been at pains
-to emphasise that these invest-
ments had not been at the
expense of their overdraft
business.
Some had made capital-
issues themselves specifically
to cover their investments,
while others had used parts of.
their reserves for the same
purpose.
In all, these bank investments
would amount to £11.96 million
when current capital-issues of
some of their related hire-
purchase companies had been
completed.
“This investment venture of
the trading-banks has been
prompted by a number of
motives,” says the ’Wales.
“Their path was pioneered
by the Commonwealth Bank
itself, whose Industrial Finance
Department in February,
1958, had £l6 million advanced
on hire-purchase.
“The pressure of trading-
bank competition dictated that
a bank had to enter into a close
relationship with a finance
company to offset or minimise
the drift of its customers with
such a connection.”
A deciding factor, too, had
been the relatively high return
on investment in a finance-
company when bank-earnings
were being squeezed in many
other directions by official
policy.
More than 20 p.c. of bank-
deposits had been frozen in
special account earning only
a nominal rate of interest’
appreciably below the cost of
servicing them.
At the same time banks’
administrative costs and salary
bills had been rising, while
income from other sources had
been restrained by relatively
low interest-rates and the static
total of bank-advances under
restrictive credit-policy.
The banks’ participation in
part-ownership of h.-p. cos.
had not reduced their capacity
to lend to their normal
customers.
“The volume of bank-
advances at any one time is
the special concern of the
central bank in accordance with
ruling economic conditions,
and it manages bank-liquidity
and their special - account
balances to that end.
“It is untrue to suggest that
banks refuse to lend on over-
draft so that they may divert
custom to a hire-purchase
affiliate in order to derive a
greater return.
“In relatively few cases would
a hire-purchase transaction be
a proposition for a bank-
advance, even in conditions of
easier credit, and where it was,
if a potential borrower were
diverted to a hire-purchase
company, the bank would be
able to use its resources to
lend to another customer who
would otherwise have to be
refused accommodation.”


“Very conservative , the Rajah. Cant really break-away from the old days."


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia. ,
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
New York City Ballet
An unsatisfying “Swan Lake”
opened the New York City
Ballet’s latest change of pro-
gramme at Sydney Empire.
Some of the choreography
(Balanchine after Ivanov) is
ugly and much of it is flat,
as was much of the dancing,
notably the “Dance of the Little
Swans,” which, lacked the
sprightliness expected in this
quaint and popular little show-
piece.
Diana Adams danced like a
tenuous piece ( of gossamer,
light and fragile, but without
meaning. Without tenderness,
warmth or passion of some
kind, the Swan Princess did not
come to life, either as bird or
woman, and the whole ballet
missed because of it, although
by grafting-on, omitting and
emphasising, the story was ex-
plained in words of one
syllable. The joyous dancing of
a red-head leading the pas de
trois from the programme
it wpuld seem to be Dorothy
Scott—w'as notable.
If there is one consistent
fault with American ballet —
having regard to the freshness
and strength of the choreo-
graphy and this company’s
ability to demonstrate it—it
is that this robust vigor of
expression sometimes defeats
itself in its lack of subtlety.
This Was particularly so in
their unusual presentation of
“Afternoon of a Faun,” with
choreography by Jerome
Robbins to Debussy’s
langorous music.
In its original form this
sensual ballet, with its classical
setting and its highly stylised
form, is, as someone has already
remarked, like the attitudes on
a Grecian urn. Possibly the
current ugly version will be
accepted, and even rated above
the original, but both the
setting (a ballet practice-room)
and the dancers have the
pseudo-reality of the average
American film.
A repeat of “Firebird,” with
Patricia Wilde a shapely,
graceful flame in the title role,
and “Concerto Barocco”
(Balanchine again) completed
the bill. Melissa Hayden, whose
dancing is always outstanding,
led the troupe Of well-drilled
dancers through a series of
lovely patterns and Bach’s
gentle music so that they floated
and turned like a school of
fish in an underwater world.
❖ ❖ _ ***
Edouard Van Remoortel
Belgian conductor Edouard
van Remoortel chose
Honegger’s Fifth as the sym-
phonic offering at the A.B.C.’s
subscription concert at Sydney
Town Hall, and the orchestra
blew, scraped and belted
its way through the weird
maze of dissonances with
commendable fortitude.
Ida Haendel was soloist
in the Khachaturian Violin
Concerto. The great violin-con-
certi can be counted on the
fingers of one hand ; this one
could possibly be numbered
among the next five. Though
its themes are never distin-
guished ''its workmanship is
always efficient; it is colorful
enough in the orchestral score
but too often dry in the writing
for the soloist; it lacks the
broad flowing lyricism which
is the fiddle’s inalienable right.
It is a concerto based primarily
on Oriental rhythmic patterns.
Miss Haendel weaved her
way through these with easy
assurance and a technical
mastery which, in the final
/movement, was at times quite
brilliant. The orchestra gave
strength and precision to the
dominant rhythmic material
and in the andante produced
a fine-textured tone as a back-
ground for the soloist’s bold
voice.
' The two overtures were all-
too-brief compensation for the
sterility of much of the pro-
gramme. The shimmering effect
conjured by the high strings
in Mendelssohn’s “Midsummer
Night’s Dream” was enchant-
ing, and in “The Mastersingers”
the conductor worked
Ray Barrett, who plays the
leading role of Jimmy Porter
in John Osborne’s “Look Back
in Anger,” which opens at
Sydney’s Elizabethan Theatre
tonight (June 4th).
vigorously on his forces to
achieve a solidly forthright and
excellently balanced reading of
Wagner’s melodious pro-
cessional music.
&
Alma Trio
In its second Sydney recital
the American chamber-music
ensemble visiting Australia
under the Musica Viva flag
followed the same programme-
pattern as in its first—two trios
and two sonatas, one for each
stringed instrument.
The Sonata for Violin and
Piano was the middle one of
Beethoven’s Op. 30, a product
of his lush middle-period and
alive with powerful drama.
Maurice Wilk drew upon a rich,
broad tone to delineate the
deeply felt emotion of the
adagio, and in the opening and
closing movements combined
verve and precision. Adolph
Bailer’s work at the piano, here
and in the difficult Hindemith
Sonata for Cello, was crisp and
always musicianly.
The Hindemith, of which
only a portion of the middle
movement is listenable, is for
the most part driven along
with nervous energy and
tortuous rhythms. Gabor
Rejto swept spiritedly through
these and retained a tone which
commanded the greatest
respect.
The trios the Mozart B
Flat Major, K. 502, glowing
with brightness and warmth
and full of mellow good humor,
and the Brahms C Major, Op.
87, replete with strong melodies
but with heavier humor than
the Mozart—-were played with
admirable suavity, integration
and affection.
♦» 4 ♦!«
Vic. Concerto Competitions
Eight aspiring finalists in the
Victorian Concerto Competi-
tion sufficed to pack Melbourne
Town Hall with adoring
relatives, friends and parents.
Judging by the variety of
opinions, all passionate and all
different, a licensed bookmaker
stationed in the foyer before
the event would have done a
roaring business.
Sir Bernard Heinze dis-
charged his starting-pistol
and John Lavender led-olf
with the first movement of
Schumann’s Concerto in
A Minor, Op. 54, with
the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra in close attendance.
This rider showed good pace,
excellent understanding and a
wonderful control, and his
performance was very moving
towards the finish.
Dorothy O’Donahoo, mezzo-
soprano, chose fbr her mount
an aria from Donizetti’s “La
Favorita, ” “O Mio Fernando,”
a heavy goer which did not suit
her light mezzo-soprano, which
the orchestra inconsiderately
overwhelmed in places.
Robert Bickerstaff, 6ft. 6in.
of bass - baritone, essayed
Gerard’s abject self-abasement
from Giordano’s “Andrea
Chenier,” and showed an
extraordinarily sensitive appre-
ciation of it—a clear, lovely
voice but imperfect diction.
Elaine Fenn followed with a
showily fingered but well-
played rendering of the piano-
forte passages in Prokofieffs


CHATEAU TANUNDA
Stories of the Coastal Lights No. 18
* % k
s flip m
• Ml
Cape Wickham
The granite lighthouse tower at Cape Wickham, on the
northern end of King Island, Bass Strait, is the tallest in
Australia. Its height is 158 ft. from the ground to the top
,of the ventilator on top of the lantern, and the focal plane of
the light is 280 ft. above sea level.
For more than half a century after the discovery of Bass
Strait (1798), the coasts of King Island were a constant
danger to shipping. However, the first official moves to
build a lighthouse there were not made until 1855 and it was
1860 before building began. The light came into use on
November 1, 1861, being manned by a superintendent and
three assistants (an extra hand was employed for the first five
months). •
The original fixed lens was used from 1861 until 1946,
when it was replaced by a modem electric revolving lens. So
sturdily was the first lens made that it has since been put into
service at Quobba Point, north of Carnarvon in Western
Australia.
The present light at Cape Wickham has a strength of
170,000 candle power and is visible for 23 miles in clear
weather. It is now unattended, but is under control of the
lightkeeper at Currie, which is the main township and only
port of King Island.
Cape Wickham was a point on the first submarine cable
linking Victoria and Tasmania. This cable was laid in 1859,
but was abandoned in the following year.
A marine radiobeacon was established at the Cape in 1941.
This beacon, together with the radiobeacon established at
Cape Otway on the Victorian coast in 1938, is an important
safeguard to shipping in Western Bass Strait.
Cape Wickham was named after Commander J. C. Wickham,
R.N., who made a survey of Bass Strait in 1838 and 1839 in
the famous H.M.S. "Beagle."
The position of the light at Cape Wickham is latitude 39®
36' south, longitude 143® 57' east.
You can have confidence in the quality
of this pure grape brandy
CHATEAU TANUNDA
N.S.W. Agents:
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 120 years
CLIB
Concerto No. 3 in C Major, Op.
26.
After the interval Roger
Holmes, who is due to leave
for Paris for more study,
sprang into the lead with an
extremely lucid rendering of
Rachmaninoff’s “Rhapsody on
a Theme by Paganini,” full of
light and shade, strength and
softness —you would have to
go back a long way in Mel-
bourne Town Hall annals to
point to a more pleasurable
performance.
The exuberance of the
orchestra frequently submerged
the sweet soprano of Pauline
Stockdale, sometimes heard in
the “Willow Song” from
“Otello.”
The last to come briskly ibp
the straight was pianist
Anthony Fenelon, who played
the solo part from Liszt’s
Concerto No. 1 in E Flat
Major in a confident manner.
Messrs. Tibor Paul and
Cripps, adjudicators, gave first
place in the instrumental
division to Roger Holmes First
place in the vocal section was
given to Robert Bickerstaff,
plus a warning to watch his
diction in the future. If there
were any dissentients they
were silent.
Artbursts
Schureck Collection
Norman Schureck’s collec-
tion, now on display at the
N. S. Wales National Gallery,
reminds you of one of the
pleasures of London, where in
such private museums *as the
Sloane and, particularly, the
Wallace you can see a kind of
epitome of the world’s art, one
wealthy connoisseur’s selection
from the best Europe has pro-
duced down the centuries.
Such collections have one
inestimable advantage over
such colossal banquets of art
as the Louvre or the Uffizi:
they are not too big. You can
take them in. Instead of
coming out bewildered, you
come out with a single clear-
cut impression of art’s con-
tinuing tradition.
For that reason, though the
N.S.W. gallery is not so big
as all that, it is a pity that the
public cannot see Schureck’s
collection as this commentator
saw it one hot summer night
years ago in Schureck’s house
at King’s Cross ; drinking white
wine, eating little pink cubes of
frozen watermelon and, so far
as they could be discerned
among the stacks of them
against the walls and along the
corridors, looking a! the pic-
tures.
Schureck has hardly bought
on the grand scale of the
Wallace collection, where it is
nothing to find so superb a
masterpiece as the Rubens
“Holy Family” sitting quietly
on a wall amongst a dozen
other great paintings ; nor has
he, like Howard Hinton in his
bequest to the Armidale
Teachers’ College, sought to
give an epitome of Australian
art in his time.
He has looked for the-odd,
the rare and the charming;
quality, in general, on the small
scale ; the “little gem.” And,
if Heysen’s splendid oil of the
Centre should, be
and some of the Gruners and
Streetons (mostly displaying
these two excellent painters in
their later firmness rather than
their early poetry), the general
effect is just that: the odd, the,
rare, the charming . . . about
20 little Dobells, the brilliant
small watercolors of Hercules
Brabazon, the soft little sea-
pieces of Boudin which were
to be reflected here in Julian
Ashton, some glittering small
Turners, half-a-dozen beautiful
little landscapes by Tom
Roberts.
There are 108 pictures here
(only a part of Schureck’s total
collection) and it is an exhibi-
tion which nobody should
miss: the more attractive
because, though there are a few
strange gaps, jio battle of the
schools is reflected but only,
with old and new mingled, a
steady connoisseurship.
Other Sydney art for the
week consists of five young
architects from Sydney Uni-
versity at the Terry Clune
Galleries —occasionally, as in
Basil Deen’s “Plant Man,”
John Stoddard’s “Bird’s Nest”
and Leonard Hessing’s
“Hummingbird,” humming
pleasantly enough—and Ronald
Millen’s adventures with
various kinds of abstraction at
the Macquarie Galleries ; some
of which, such as “Wall No. 4,”
are just a blank wall to this
commentator, while others,
such as “The Cage” (No. 6),
“White Composition” and
“Mallorquin Mountain” are
full of charm and life.
❖ ♦>
City and* Country
Melbourne has lately seen
two exhibitions of pictures
opposite in intention but not
so very different in execution —
“Art from the Country,” spon-
sored by the National Gallery
and the Council for Adult
Education, and “Life and Still-
life,” by city artists, sponsored
by the same august bodies,
intended for export to the
country.
Generally speaking, the two
shows are as alike as peas out
of the same pod. If the object
of the city sponsors was to
bring enlightenment to the
barbarous inhabitants of the
vast open spaces they were
wasting their time p somebody
or something has been there
before them. For every example
of the latest Paris fashion in
the city-to-country touring
exhibition there is one just as
good in the country-to-city
collection. It is quite surprising
how quickly these uncultivated
rustics have caught up with the
city slickers.
The sponsors of the" two
exhibitions lament the alleged
isolation of the rural artist
and wish to break it down by
this exchange of pictures. Isola-
tion, however, isn’t necessarily
a disadvantage. Few of the city
artists are as interested, in their
own surroundings as they are
in Matisse and Picasso. John


• ASSETS EXCEED £55,000,000 • ASSETS EXCEED £55,000,000 • ASSETS EXCf^
$,55,000,000
E
ASSETS E-Yfcv
INVEST FOR SECURITY
IN REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
7 1 per annum.. 6 yrs.
62 per annum.. 4 yrs.
skper annum... 2 yrs.
sper annum... 1 yr.
4V/oper annum... 9 mths.
4'/.per annum... 6 mths.
3 V/. per annum... 3 mths.
Full details are clearly shown in the Prospectus. Ask for your
copy from Members of the Stock Exchange, the 703 branches of the
AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND BANK LTD. or .. .
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
(Established 28 years)
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE ’ PERTH • HOBART ' CANBERRA * NEWCASTLE
WOLLONGONG • GEELONG * BUNBURY
£55,000,000 • ASSETS EXCEED £55,000,000 • ASSETS EXCEED £55,000,000
Underwriting Brokers:
lan Potter & Co. p Melbourne,
Canberra & Sydney.
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders:
The Perpetual Executors& Trustees
Association of Australia Limited.
>
CP
C/\
<<>
EXCEED £55,000,000 • ASSETS EXCEED £ss*°
Brack’s “Collins Street, Five
p.m.,” with its long lines of
city workers all drearily return-
ing to the suburbia they came
from, is a possible exception,
It may not be of very high
artistic value, but it is certainly
a telling piece of propaganda
for decentralisation. The rest
are not, even to that degree,
objective, but at least some of
the rustic painters are suffi-
ciently sensitive to their
surroundings to paint recog-
nisable souvenirs of various
aspects of their districts.
Constance Coleman, of Launch-
ing Place, has a pleasing picture
in “Landscape” ; there is fresh-
ness in the “Bush Track” of
Margery Engeman, of Echuca ;
“Silver Mists” by Vicky Horne
Of the same place, has feeling;
and Jessie Spittle, of Birchip’
has evidently been in a cow-
shed,-judging by her painting
of one.
M.G.S.
Films
“Jet Pilot”
A Russian woman fighter-
pilot brings her latest jet with
her when she arrives at an
Alaskan airfield to seek
asylum. She is welcomed
figuratively with open arms by
the U.S. top-brass and literally
by air-ace Colonel John
Wayne. In fact, everyone is so
taken by the lady that she is
allowed to flip around the U.S.-
held skies in all the latest Yank
models.
Then the gallant colonel ups
and marries her, and when the
question of her being a pro-
hibited immigrant crops-up—
something the colonel quite
overlooked he hops in the
latest jet-bomber and takes
Olga her name had to be
Olga— to Siberia, with the full
approval of the U.S. brass, so
that he can nose around and
inspect the Russkis’ air-
strength. He is at first wel-
comed with open arms by Ivan
and co., and when they turn
nasty he grabs his wife and
their latest jet-fighter and beats
it*back to Alaska!
John Wayne and Janet Leigh
in the main roles.
At Sydney Plaza.
❖ ❖
“Pal Joey”
This lugubrious and rather
unpleasant musical has Frank
Sinatra as a nigl\t-club howler
who so enchants a temporarily
unattached heiress that she
promptly makes him her fancy
man. He still retains a yen for
a shapely dancer, however, and
his making of this preference
brutally plain gets the mink-
wrapped dollar-fancier so mad
she threatens to stop handing
out the greenbacks and to
abandon her project of a posh
dinner-dance dive all for his
owny-own. In the end, of
course, the dame with the
dough nobly abjures her boy-
friend in the interests of True
Luv.
Sinatra -lairs his way through
the title-role with his usual
cockiness, and Kim Novak, as
the dancer, and Rita Hayworth
as the heiress, don’t do much to
help him.
At Sydney State.


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
DIRECTORS:
THB HON.
T. A. J. PLAYPATR.
M.L.0., chairman;
SIR EDWARD R. KNOX,
VICB-CHAIKMAN ;
ALLEN C. LEWIS:
D. B. LYSAGHT;
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
JOHN DARLING;
A. G. ARMYTAGE,
MANAGING DIRBOTOB.
W. S. MATTHEWS.
MANAGHB.
Efficient and Helpful Service
for your dependents . . .
ONE of the most thoughtful and considerate things a
man can do for his family is to ensure freedom from
all the cares and worries that so frequently go hand in
hand with Estate administration.
By appointing Perpetual Trustee Company (Ltd.) as
your Executor and Trustee —alone, or jointly with a
relative or friend, you will ensure that, when the time
comes, your Estate will be in the safe, experienced hands
of a Company with a proud record of more than 70 years’
faithful service to the Community; you will 'ensure, for
your dependents, a service that is personal, friendly and
understanding.
If you would know more of the Company’s service,
and what it costs, ring BO 377 or write, and make an
appointment. If you prefer,
ask that a copy of the
Company’s helpful and in-
formative booklet be sent to
you. It is free and post free.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and, Others, Administrator, etc.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT ORANGE & TAMWORTH
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE 0031 PA NY
(CANBERRA) LTD.
m INDUSTRY HOUSE
NATIONAL CIRCUIT
CANBERRA
LOCAL DIRFXTORS IN A
TTON TO THOSE DIRECTORS
MENTIONED AT THE LEFT:
WARREN D. MCDONALD,
C.8.E., VICE-CHAIRMAN
S. G. McFARLANE. r m g.
NEVILLE C. MILSON
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
As far as can be seen from the tradi-
tionally austere accounts of Burns
Philp, the co.’s activities over the year
to March 31 last were more than
moderately successful, despite the board’s
lament that competition, higher costs and
income- payroll- and land-tax “.made it
very difficult to show a reasonable net
return on funds employed.” “Gross
profits and income from all sources’
jumped by almost 15 p.c. over the term,
expenses, including taxation, fell slightly,
and, all told, a net £1,125,931 was added
to reserves.
However, from the shareholders’ point
of view the most interesting development
was, of course, the board’s decision to
celebrate Burns Philps’ 75th anniversary
with a one-for-four bonus issue. This
long-awaited gift—the first for nearly 40
years—was sent to members on the
register at April 30 last and financed by
what may be regarded as a most con-
servative revaluation of assets. As it
seems almost certain that the current
10 p.c. div.-rate will be maintained, the
gesture, unlike some, will be of
immediate value in terms of income.
Well known as shipowner, merchant,
island-trader and plantation-owner, B.P.
nowadays derives most of its profits from
investments in subsidiary and other cos
Substantial shareholdings in Queensland
Insurance and G. J. Coles figure
prominently in a portfolio that includes
scrip in a wide spread of banks, manu-
facturers, merchants and mining concerns.
The principal subsidiaries are Bums
Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd., Burns Philp
(New Guinea), Ltd. (traders, ship- and
plantation-owners), Burns Philp Co. of
San Francisco (import-export agents), and
Burns Philp Trust Co., Ltd.
The South Sea and New Guinea Off-
shoots both performed well last term,
the former co. lifting its net earnings by
£5853 to £142,362 (Fijian). There, was
some improvement also in the overall
results from merchandising, but what
promised to be a “comparatively” good
year for shipping was marred in the latter
half of the year by delays and disturb-
ances on the waterfront.
Including the return from outside
investments, modestly valued in the
books at £6,375,145, and divs. from sub-
sidiary cos., the parent co. turned in a
net profit of £608,167, but before arriving
at this figure a generous £491,995 (up
£149,643) was provided against deprecia-
tion, £450,000 (up £200,000) sent to
tonnage-replacement reserve, and £50,000
(unchanged) to property-replacement
reserve. Capital-profits arising from the
sale of two over-age vessels and an
unexplained “adjustment of accounts” by
the London branch brought in a further
£435,705:
To Re— Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Unexplained additions, , £324,121 5,770,866
1955.. 477,116 10 pc. = 300,000 7 152 %76 5,923,142
To staff fund. £24,840. . )
To replacement res., £300,000.. 6,223,142
Net addition reserves, £518,761.. 6,741,903
1956.. 499,293 10 p.c. =324,798 1. , c „ aon
To staff fund, £25,870.. J 148 ’ 62 ° 6 > 890 ’ 528
To replacement res., £300,000.v 7,190,528
Surplus, insurance prem’s, £4566 7,195,094
Less sundry adjustments, £1486.. 7,193,608
1957.. 563,105 10 p.c. = 375,000 7
To staff fund, £27,082.. j 161 ’ 4)23 7 ’ 354 ’ 681
To replacement res., £500,000.. 7,854,631
Surplus insurance fund, £10,104 7,864,735
Profit sale assets, etc., £435,705 8,300,440
1958.. 608,167 10 p.c. =400,000 7 . Rn 1 „„„ . Rft
To staff fund, £28,045 j 18U,1 “ 2 8,480,562
Up £45,062, earnings equalled 15.2 p.c.
on share-capital, compared with 15.1,
15.4 and 15.9 p.c. over the three years
back to 1955. Steady at 10 p.c., the div.-
rate hasn’t fallen below it since 1919.
Troubled by replacement-costs and
high operating-expenses, the parent co.,
in the post-war years, has found the
island shipping-trade a lot less profitable
than it was earlier in the century, while,
according to chairman James Burns, “as
far as the Australian and New Zealand
trade is concerned, the wholesale business
we have carried on for the last 75 years
is dying out.”
As a consequence B.P. has tended in
recent years to develop more as an
investment- and holding-co. than as a
merchant and shipowner, the sale to
G. J. Coles, in 1956, of the chain-retailer
Penneys, Ltd. (for 3,600,000 ss. ords. in
Coles and £1,025,000 in cash), conform-
ing to this pattern.
In these circumstances, the board’s
reluctance to publish consolidated
accounts or to separate trading profits
from investment income, severely limits
the value of the annual financial state-
ments, a position in no way improved
by the failure to disclose provisions made
for taxation.
Interested in the copra industry as
planter, merchant and holding-co., B.P.
expects lower returns from this quarter
to follow the expiry, last year, of an
agreement under which the U. K. Gov-
ernment purchased the copra output of
the South Pacific islands. Against this,
however, several cacao-plantations have
reached the bearing stage.
Last year’s three-for-ten par issue by
G. J. Coles would, together with the
final call on scrip issued by Queensland
Insurance in 1956, account for about
half of the £734,439 put into outside
investments, scrip in Burns Philp (South
Sea) representing most of the additional
£284,728 against shares in subsidiaries.
Income-from both classes of investment
should easily cover the £500,000 required
in the current term for a 10 p.c. div. on
B.P.’s bonus-enlarged capital:
. 1956. 1957. 1958.
Capital .. £3,500,000 £4,000,000 £4,0(10,000
Reserves .. 6,890,326 7,354,631 8,480,562
Creditors, etc.. . 3,264,200 3,170,653 3,289,646
Filial dividends 175,000 200,000 200,000
£13,829,520 £14,725,284 £ 15,970,208
Properties and
shipping .. 1,990,842 2,352.855 2,166,742
Shares other cos.* 2,727,870 5,640,706 6,375,145
Shares subsids. 5,261,917 2,966,360 3,251,088
Stocks, etc. .. 2,047,241 1,613,782 1,891,096
Debtors .. 1,553,990 1,806,027 1,999,336
Cash .. .. 247,666 345,554 286,801
£13,829,526 £14,725,284 £ 15,970,208
’lncludes an unstated amount of Govt, bonds. .
When valuing investments no account
appears to have been taken of the
1,080,000 ss. bonus-shares received from
G. J. Coles last term, and, while revalua-
tion of outside shareholdings could
provide a tidy sum, an indication of the


co.’s inner strength in other directions
may be gained from the fact that since
1952 over £2,500,000, or approximately
£350,000 more than the current book-
value of fixed assets, has been provided
for depreciation.
Par issues in 1951 and 1955 preceded
last April’s £1,000,000 bonus-issue, but
even at its present total of £5,000,000,
paid capital still falls well short of the
£8,480,562 of visible reserves at March
31 last.
At 545. the f.-p. £1 ords. would return
£3 14s. Id. from a 10 p.c. div., a yield
which, in the circumstances, calls for a
patient investor.' Net tangible backing
(book-values, parent’s accounts only)
is 535. lid.
Lowes, Ltd.
TTire-purchase contracts are tying-up
an increasing proportion of the
public's spending-money, and, bowing to
this trend, Lowes, Ltd., plans to join in
the currently brisk —and equally com-
petitive—retail trade in TV-receivers.
The Sydney-based men’s and boys’ out-
fitter is also making arrangements to
handle domestic appliances, radios and
sporting-goods.
Designed to buoy-up a sagging turn-
over, these moves follow last term’s
8 p.c. drop in net earnings and the third
successive slip in the co.’s sales.
Trading through a chain of nine stores,
of which seven are in Sydney and suburbs
and two in the industrial centres of
Newcastle and Wollongong, Lowes
specialises in medium- and low-priced
goods. Over the last three years the co.’s
earnings have fallen well below the peak
figure reached in the 1954-55 term, the
board attributing the decline to increased
operating-expenses (particularly land-tax
and municipal rates) as well as to the
contraction in sales.
Lowes was founded in 1898, the public
getting a share-interest in the business
50 years later when 150,000 ss. ords.
were offered, at a premium of 12s. 6d. a
share, to finance expansion. . Bonus-
issues in 1949 (three-for-five) and 1955
(one-for-one) have since lifted ord.
capital to £455,354. In addition, there
are 143,870 workers’ shares which par-
ticipate in divs., but have no capital-
value or voting-rights.
Unseasonable weather during the
winter of 1957 contributed to last term's
“slight decrease” in turnover (undis-
closed), while higher expenses (a full
year’s land-tax cost the co. £17,461)
claimed a larger share of the reduced
income. After allowing £14,662 (up
£7745) for depreciation, but omitting the
usual £5OOO payment to the pension-
fund, pre-tax earnings fell by 22.6 p.c. to
£80,280, a much smaller tax-provision
(down £14,000 at £29,000) limiting the
drop in net warnings to £4456: —■
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. r~ —Dividends serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1954 .. 62,602 17$p.c.= 43,037 19,565 301.605
1955 . . 77,561 20 ~ „ 49,129 28,432 330,037
Assets revalued, £324,014 .. .. 654,051
Reserves capitalised, £227,677 ~ 426,374
1956 .. 55,175 10 p.c.= 49,438 5,737 432,111
Profit sale assets, £2249 .. .. 434,360
1957 .. 55,736 10 p.c.= 49.352 6,384 440,744
Freeholds revalued, £320,395 .. .. 761,139
Loss, sale investments, £72 .. .. 761,067
1958 .. 51,280 10 p.c. .= 49,150 2,130 763,197
The £51,280 profit represented 10.4 p.c.
on share-capital (ords. and workers’ shares
combined), compared with 11.3 p.c. and
11.2 p.c. in the two preceding terms, the
unchanged 10 p.c. div. absorbing all but
£2130 of the lower figure.
To cover the possible effect of low-
priced Japanese imports on the market-
value of certain stocks, £15,000 was trans-
fered from general reserve to a
newly created “provision” for stock-
depreciation. Stocks are in the accounts
“at cost or less.”
Revalued in 1955, freeholds were
written-up again last term, £320,395 being
added to their book-value to bring it
into line with estimates made by the
Valuer-General. Judging by the present
level of earnings, an early capitalisation
of the revaluation reserve (now
£416,732) seems most unlikely.
The premises occupied at Newcastle
were bought during the year, the total
expenditure on freeholds amounting to
£77,804. A net £32,389 went into fittings,
plant, motor-vehicles, etc. With the
purchase of the Newcastle property the
co. now owns the freeholds of all but
one of its branch stores:
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital £455,354 £455,354 £455,354
Reserves .. ~ 432,112 440,744 763,197
Mortgage ~ ~ 27,500 60,000
Overdraft .. 16,974 23,074 126,502
Creditors .. .. 125,109 150,001 126,960
Provision for tax,
etc 88,628 87,427 78,767
Staff funds 34,485 38,038 36,180
-Final dividend .. 24,716 24,655 24,560
£1,178,378 £1,246,793 £1,671,520
Freeholds .. 621,855 679,365 1,077,744
Plant, etc. .. 73,093 83,252 115,641
Stock .. 365,734 359;936 360,641
Debtors .. .. 58,196 68.258 68,744
Cash, shares, etc. 59,500 55,982 48,750
£1,178,378 £1,246,793 £1,671,520
The heavy capital-outlay ate into
working-capital (down , £75,865 at
£85,116), despite the extra £32,500
borrowed under mortgage, the overdraft
jumping from £23,074 to £126,502.
Further advances from the bank may
be sought to finance development of a
site at Fairfield (Sydney) and possibly to
extend the chain of stores to other fast-
growing suburban centres.
Entry into the TV, radio and domestic-
appliance fields should strengthen turn-
over in the current term without adding,
significantly, to overheads, but the share-
market doesn’t expect any substantial
improvement in earnings, pricing the
f.-p. ss. ords. at 6s. Bd. (as against Bs.
a year ago) to return £7 10s. p.c. from a
10 p.c. div. Net tangible asset backing
is a shade under 13s. sd.
Hopkins, Odium, Ltd.
T>eporting on results for 1956, chair-
man L. G. Odium claimed the year
as “one of the most successful in our
history,” despite a sharp, but by no
means catastrophic, ebb in visible earn-
ing-power. Profit-margins had to be
tightened to cushion the high expendi-
ture entailed by a vigorous sales-drive,
the end-results of which are only par-
tially apparent in the record profit-level
reached last year, and added strains were
also imposed by an expansion programme
which is still very far from complete. And
although Hopkins Odium’s cheer-squad
has had no cause to complain about
results to date, there is every indication
that the groundwork has been laid for
bigger and better scores.
It is significant that from a turnover
only 13| p.c. higher than that recorded
in the previous year, Hopkins Odium’s
consolidated net profit for the year ended
December 31 last was up by £16,004, a
recovery of 43 p.c. The £53,740 claimed
was calculated after providing £14,624
(up £3534) for depreciation and £31,854
(significantly down £1022) for taxation:
Hopkins Odlum and Subsidiaky.
, Dividends To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. { Ord. ~ serves, serves.
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
Tax overprovided, £8536 .. .. 719
1952.. 18,311 171 8 p.c.*- 6,000 12,140 12,859
Tax overprovided, £lO,OOO .'. . . 22,859
1953. .31,953 1,250 8 p.c. = 16,000 14,703 37,562
1954.. 52,693 582 10 „ ~20,000 32,111 69,673
1955.. 53,406 10 ~ ~20,000 33,406 103,079
1956.. 37,736 10 „ ~ 20,000 17,736 120,815
1957.. 53,740 10 „ ~22,850 30,890 151,705
* For period 14/8/’52 to 31/12/’52.
Even on this year’s higher one-class
capital, the dividend was covered more
than 2.3 times ; however, there was no
deviation from the 10 p.c. distribution
which has been made over the last four
years, during which earning-rates on
capital invested have been maintained at
SVell-above-average levels 24.9 p.c.
(1954), 26.7, 18.9, 23.6 p.c. (1957).
From formation-date, 1952, when the
present holding-co. issued 400,000 10s.
ords. to acquire the £76,875 share-capital
of a business whose antecedents date
back to the ’nineties, Hopkins Odium has
enjoyed a widening and largely self-sus-
taining market for its products, which
cover all types of leather, rubber and
rubber-canvas transmission and conveyer-
belting. Amounting to £151.705 in six
years, reserve-growth has been lively, but
insufficient for the co.’s potentialities, and
last term shareholders were called upon
to take-up a further 100,000 10s. stock-
units in a one-for-four issue at par. At
the same time, employees were offered
14,000 stock-units, and another 6000 are
offered in the current term. Otherwise,
the only capital alteration in the six
years was the redemption in 1954 of
£25,000 of 5 p.c. prefs., reinvested by the
original vendors.
An issue of unsecured notes, to which
shareholders will be given prior rights,
was announced at the meeting in March,
but details have not yet been publicised.
Finances remain flexible, despite fund-
seeking :
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £200,000 £200,000 £257,000
Reserves . . . . 103,079 120,815 1517705
Mortgage .. . . 28,500 • 27,(>00 100,000
Creditors . . . . 15,165 25.257 31,782
Staff fund.. .. 6,125 6,078 6,008
Tax provision . . 61,178 62,478 60,933
Final div. . . 12,000 12,000 12,850
£426,047 £454,128 £620,278
Freeholds .. .. 119,188 159,477 222,376
Plant, etc. . . 65,767 72,908 156,568
Shares .. .. 1,132 1,132 1,132
Stock .. .. 147,116 150,589 161,994
Debtors . . . , 55,880 59,667 66.340
Cash, bonds .. 36,964 10,355 11,868
£426,047 £454,128 £620,278
Working - capital—rendered indefinite
by an over-conservative tax-provision—
was substantially maintained last year by
an addition of £82,500 to the mortgage-
loan, although there was a net addition
of £146,559 to the book-value of fixed


assets. Freeholds are at 1952
valuation (the write-up being
from £49,520 to £99,862 as a
preliminary to the takeover),
plus additions at cost, less
depreciation on amenities.
The board reports continued
advances in turnover in the
current term, although only
portion of the new plant is
operating as yet. As a pointer to
future developments, the size of
the note-issue will be interesting.
But even on the meagre
information given, and from
past performances, there are
attractions about Hopkins
Odium’s scrip, which at 13s.
6d. offers a yield of 7.4 p.c.
and has a net tangible asset
cover of 15s. lid. a 10s. unit.
Moffat-Virtue, Ltd.
CJcrip in Sydney - based
Moffat-Virtue has a limited
appeal nowadays, as this old-
established manufacturer and
distributor of mainly farm
requirements continues on the
hard road it has been travelling
since the post-war pastoral
symphony began to lose some
of its exuberance back in
1952. The f.-p. 12s. 6d. ords.
—the loss of face dates back
to 1936, when equity-capital
was written-down from £62,960
to £39,350 —currently command
around ss. on ’Change, where
in 1951 they were swapping
owners at 31s. 6d.; constituting
only £25,000 of the £276,799 of
paid capital, the closely-held
20s. 8 p.c. cumulative prefs. are
secure in a net tangible cover
of £lB 14s. 10d., compared with
225. for the ordinaries.
A weaker turnover last term
reflected the present relatively
straitened circumstances of
Moffat - Virtue’s traditional
mainstay, the Australasian
primary producer, but a drastic
attack on expenses kept the
loss within reasonable bounds.
On consolidating figures
presented by the parent and its
northern-State offshoot, Moffat-
Virtue (Queensland) Pty., the
net deficiency from trading for
the year ended December 31
last showed-up at £6451, com-
pared with a loss of £lB,OlB in
1956, and was shown after
deducting £151,682 (down
£21,497) for administration and
distribution expenses and a
smallish depreciation allowance,
£5395 (down £493):
Parent and Subsidiary.
, —Dividends —\ Re-
Dee. Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.*
81, £ p.c. p.c. £ £
Tax overprovided, £9053 .. 211,426
1952.. 11.202 8 8 22,144 220,478
Tax overprovided, £2500 .. 222,978
Loss.
1953.. 17.627 8 Nil 2.000 203,351
Surplus sale fixed assets,
£505 203,856
Profit.
1954.. 2,335 8 2§ 8,295 197,896
Surplus sale fixed assets,
£576 198,472
Loss.
1955.. 425 8 Nil 2,000 196,047
Tax underprovided, £635 .. 195,412
Surplus sale fixed assets,
£75 '. .. 195,487
Assets revalued, £24,940.. 220,427
1956.. 18,028 8 Nil 2,000 200,399
Tax underprovided, £25 .. 200,374
Surplus sale fixed assets,
£276 ... .. .. 200.650
Long-service provn., £347.. 200,303
1957.. 6.451 8 Nil 2,000 191,852
* After deducting intangibles, £4878 at
Dec. 31, 1957.
The ords. have been cap-in-
hand since a token 2 \ p.c,
distribution in 1954; in a
decade which began with high
promise they have averaged
only 4.9 p.c. in the way of
dividends, and scarcely any-
thing has been forthcoming
over the last five years.
Besides items of its own
manufacture (shearing, milking,
YOUNGHUSBAND, LTD.
"INDUSTRY REQUIRES REDUCED COSTS"
Speaking at the 69th Annual General Meeting of Share-
holders, held in Melbourne Tuesday, May 27, at the offices
of the Company, King Street, Melbourne, the Chairman,
Sir Clive McPherson, K. 8., C.8.E., said:—
It is with much regret that I
have to report that, owing to ill-
health, Mr. T. N. Mitchell, C.8.E.,
tendered his resignation from the
Board. During his term of office
Mr. Mitchell gave valuable service
to this Company.
Mr. Alex. Sloane, of Mulwala,
N.S.W., a well-known Riverina
grazier, has been appointed to fill
the vacancy on the Board.
SEASONAL CONDITIONS
Our reports in general terms are
as follows:
New South Wales: The western
half of the State requires a good
general rain to replenish water
supplies and to ensure winter fed.
Districts favored with moderate to
good rains during the first four
months of the year have responded
well, but follow-up rains are now
needed. Coastal districts appear
to be in a safe position.
Victoria: A good soaking rain is
now urgently required in most dis-
tricts before the winter sets in.
Stock water supplies are causing
anxiety in some areas and hand
feeding is taking place also. Sum-
mer pastures, however, kept stock
in fair to good condition.
Queensland: Monsoonal rains
have not been general, but good
rains have fallen over a large area.
The far western and some of tfie
south-western districts urgently
require rain if further stock losses
are to be avoided.
Tasmania: Except for southern
Tasmania, where rain would be
most beneficial, the remainder of
the State appears to be in good
condition for the winter months.
South Australia: There has been
no general break in the season, but
useful rain fell during March.
Pastures in mo& districts are
deteriorating and good follow-up
rains are now urgently needed.
Western Australia: Conditions
vary considerably in pastoral dis-
tricts, this being brought about
by two cyclonic storms which pro-
duced good rains to only part of
the pastoral area; good soaking
rains are needed over a wide area.
In the agriculture districts, water
shortages are causing some con-
cern and conditions continue to be
dry.
To sum up, the season appears
to be very much in doubt, but
it is not yet too late for heavy
and general rains to considerably
improve the situation.
NOTE: The above weather
reports were 'made prior to the
good rains received generally during •
the last two weeks.
IRRIGATION
The State Rivers and Water
Supply Commission of Victoria
have this year established a record
in the delivery of over one million
acre feet of water, the previous
highest delivery being in 1956/57
and comprising 952,000 acre feet.
It is expected that, at the end
of the Season, the storages in
Victoria will carry forward more
than one million acre feet as a
reserve against the dry conditions
continuing for more than one year.
The new Eildon dam and the
Cairn Curran dam have made the
above results possible.
STOCK
As at the 31st March, 1957, the
number of sheep being carried in
Australia was estimated at 149.8
million—figures are not available
to March, 1958.
The following figures, made
available by the Commonwealth
Bureau of Census and Statistics,
are of interest, and ,show the
number of stock carried in Aus-
tralia from 1939: —
1939 *115.5 million
1952 .. .. .. 117.7 million
1953 .. .. .. 123.1 million
1954 .. .. ... 126.9 million
1955 130.8 million
1956 139.1 million
1957 149.8 million
♦Average for 3 years ended 1939.
Cattle numbers at the last Census
taken to March, 1957, were 17.2
million as compared with 16.4 the
previous year.
WHEAT
Returns to the Australian Wheat
Board for the year 1957/58 to date
total approximately 80.3 million
bushels as against 120.1 million
bushels last year. The fall in pro-
duction was chiefly brought about
by adverse seasonal conditions.
The weather during the next few
months will have an important
bearing on the wheat crop for the
1958/59 year.
WOOL
During the year the Company
sold 140,117 bales as against
141,107 bales last year. Our
receipts for the current season
decreased by 13,469 bales, and
14,188 bales are carried forward.
Last year we carried forward
23,551 bales. Lower receipts on
this occasion are the result of a
more average and patchy season,
whilst the carry forward has been
reduced partly because of the
earlier start of Melbourne Auctions.
There has been a noticeable
decline in the average price per lb.
of greasy wool sold at auction in
Australia for the first nine months
of this season, as against the corres-
ponding period of 1956/57. This
season’s figure is approximately 18
per cent, less, and recent sales
indicate that results for the full
year will show an even greater
decline. Last season values con-
tinued moving upwards to their
peak in May, and the standard of
wool available for sale in the' final
quarter was better.
In commenting on the disap-
pointing trend of prices this season,
I would point out that the heavy
burden of costs covering all phases
of wool production gives the pro-
ducer only limited scope of
grappling with the problem, as
most of them are outside his con-
trol. The present level of values
leaves little margin of profit in
many instances, and those particular
cost items that have been loaded in
more prosperous times should now
be reviewed in the light of present
circumstances.
The fall in prices in the first half
of this season from the Ist July,
1957, was the sharpest that has
occurred since 1951. Steadier
markets prevailed during January
and the early part of February this
year, but the increase recorded was
short lived, due mainly to a slack-
ening of the Japanese demand, and
doubt as to her future require-
ments. Prospective wool supplies
are smaller than was estimated at
the commencement of this wool
year, but consumption has tapered
off, and at the present time all
elements associated with the price
structure lack a stable background.
GENERAL CONDITIONS
The cessation of our abnormal
run of good seasons, together with
the fall in prices of primary pro-
ducts generally, in which wool has
taken its share, make it necessary
to review costs in Industry in Aus-
tralia with a view to getting them
into line with revenue.
There is much activity through-
out Industry in general towards this
end —it is the responsibility of
every section of the community to
make a full effort towards this
objective, for only by so doing can
we avoid the more serious reper-
cussions that delay will cause in
our economy.
Greater efficiency by manage-
ment and a striving for increased
production on the part of all
employees are two necessary factors
in our present position, and no
half-hearted effort will suffice.
STAFF
On behalf of the Board, I should
like to express to the Staff, in all
sections, our appreciation of the
manner in which they have co-
operated to overcome a rather diffi-
cult year. It is a pleasure to be
able to record our thanks for the
way in which their work has been
carried out.
BRANCHES
During, the year, we have pur-
chased the business of Macleod and
Booth, at Ballarat, Victoria. This
branch should be a valuable addi-
tion to our business in Southern
Victoria.


INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant super-
vision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring: Street, SYDNEY - - - 8U3t15
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
GENERAL MOTORS
Acceptance Corporation, Australia
(Incorporated in U.S.A..—Limited Liability)
LOAN STOCK
NEW
£1,500,000
Registered Unsecured
Loan Stock
ISSUE AT PAR
PER ANNUM
4 YEARS
PSR. ANNUM
%
6 YEARS
10 YEARS
Any multiple of £lOO may be invested in any or all of the currencies
4 years, 6 years, 10 years. GMAC, Australia has the right to
repay earlier. Conditions of repayment including premiums are set
out in the Prospectus.
NOW OPEN
Copies of the Prospectus and Application Forms available from:
BRANCHES OF COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION, AUSTRALIA
Underwritten by
THE ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN CORP. PTY. LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney
Brokers to the Issue
lAN POTTER & CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Canberra
(This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an invitation to the
public to subscribe for the Loan Stock mentioned herein.)
P. 44
pumping, power - generating
equipment, etc.), numerous
agency lines, principally house-
hold electrical appliances, are
handled by Moffat-Virtue,
whose product-range is diver-
sified to a degree which seems
hardly commensurate with the
present scale of operations.
Output has had also to
shoulder the costs of an increas-
ing margin of idle capacity.
Last year, however, £60,000 of
redundant freeholds was off-
loaded on to a new engineering
affiliate, J. A. Prestwich-Virtue
Pty., which was formed during ,
the term in association with
J. A. Prestwich Industries,
London manufacturer of the
highly regarded J.A.P. engines,
Moffat-Virtue has taken up
£67,500 of the undisclosed
share-capital of this venture,
which, the board says, has a
promising market for air-
cooled engines in this country
and which is reported to have
returned a net profit of £3240
in four-and-a-half months of
operations to December 31,
w rtting-off considerable
establishment expenses.” It is
further claimed that j later
results show that this profit-
earning capacity is improving.”
Any benefits achieved in this
quarter are not likely to do
more on present showings than
offset some of the adverse
results of other trading evident
in the more recent balance-
sheets. Book-debts, £232,851 in
1951, had shrunk to £85,658 at
last balance-date:
P Alt ENT AND SUBSIDIARY.
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital—
Pref. .. £25,000 £25,000 £25,000
O.rd. .. 251,799 251,799 251,799
Reserves .. 200,925 205.276 196,730
Mortgages 104,166 100,166 85,166
Overdr aft
(parent) 179,966 190,183 192,275
Creditors 87,007 73,703 60,970
Final div. 1,000 1,000
£849,863 £847,127 £811,940
Freeholds 209,060 234,000 174,066
Plant . . 73,543 76,200 72,665
Shares Prest-
wieh-Virtue 67,500
Stock . . 455.701 439,544 407,143
Debtors .. 166,641 92,475 85,658
Cash .. 40 30 30
Goodwill .. 4,878 4,878 4,878
£849,863 £847,127 £811,940
On book-values, semi-liquid
ratio looks ample enough, with
current assets £492,831, nearly
double floating liabilities,
£253,831, including overdraft.
But although inventories have
been cut back by £48,558 in the
last few years, and the total
outside debt, £338,441, doesn’t
look too pressing, Moffat-Virtue
remains highly vulnerable to
the vagaries of the market in
having more than half its tota
assets-tied-up in stocks, valuec
“at cost or under.”
Meda
[From L,. Owen]
HPhe latest Wapet pres
release says that the spue
ding-in of the Meda well ;
expected almost immediately.
The celerity with which th
well-site has been got ready
difficult terrain is a tribute
all the personnel responsible
the prospects of the well mus
have been considered very gooc
indeed to induce a responsib
organisation to undertak
major drilling operations i
such hard country.
The Meda well was final!
located in April after the new
refraction technique, employ
ing the newest and mos
efficient equipment, had bee
in use about a month. It i
probable, therefore, that som
of the data obtained by thi
method have been utilised. In
addition, of course, the reflec
tion data previously obtainec
will have been taken into
account.
It is unfortunate that the
Meda site was pegged before
the unpredicted and unex
pectedly shallow depth of the
basement in the Samphire
Marsh well was known, but ii
is probable that that depth will
now be used as a yardstick in
the reinterpretation of the
reflection and refraction data
and in forecasting the depths
of key horizons at Meda.
It is to be hoped, also, that
the micro-structure of the rocks
penetrated at Samphire Marsh
1 and of those of correspond-
ing age at outcrop—will be
taken into due account and
used as a check on any inter-
pretations of geophysical data.
Silver Valley Uranium
A T March 31 last Silver
Valley Uranium Mine,
N.L., had £11,484 in current
assets covering total liabilities
£6434 and a contingent
liability of £7OOO. Fixed assets,
at cost less depreciation, are
shown at £57,312, but with
the present lack of interest
in beachmining this may be
well above their present realis-
able value. Based on book-
values there was ss. Bd. in net
tangible assets for each £1 of
share-capital at the same date.
Buyers are currently offering
Id. for ss. shares. '
A rutile - producer, Silver
V alley suspended opera-
tions at Jerusalem Creek
(N.S.W.) last November when
rutile prices fell below eco-
nomic levels.


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator ha a
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
O'SUtUVAN
LX PTYITD aL
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
HThe absence of the red
double-decker buses made
London’s streets smell fresher
and seem oddly quiet, but)
otherwise the life of the
capital was little affected. In
fact, Londoners accepted the
strike with an independence
amounting almost to con-
temptuous detachment. No
similar discomfort has ever
been passed-off with such quiet-
ness, sangfroid and apparent
indifference. It was as if the
public had sent the bus <?rews
to Coventry in their absence.
The many private cars now on
the roads helped, especially in
the outer suburbs, by offering
lifts, but people seemed un-
willing to give recognition to
the emergency and placidly
made their own way to the
nearest railway-station.
This attitude of studied
independence can hardly have
encouraged the strikers, most
of whom were against the
strike in the first place ; but
it must have brought home the
hard facts that even the buses
are not indispensable, and that
the position has been reached
when the public can withdraw
its support, at least in part.
It is unlikely, too, that their
faith in trade-unionism is
enhanced by the experience of
having to live on strike-pay
for the sake of internal politics.
For, if the London workers
had had an organisation of
their own, a settlement might
easily have been reached ; but,
because they must all belong to
the enormous Transport and
General Workers’ Union, such
a composition was impossible
without alienating their
fraternal fellow-members in
the provinces.
So, to save his face, Mr.
Frank Cousins had to call them
out and plead union solidarity
(he had also, and very quickly,
to appeal for more money to
increase the strike-pay). This
meant that the T.U.C. had to
give its uneasy backing, with
the usual perfunctory shabby
and quite false impugning of the
Government; and the Opposi-
tion, unable to resist an oppor-
tunity of embarrassing the
Cabinet, found itself virtually
lining-up with the strikers.
Quite a furofe, considering
that the amount at issue was
a mere two-bob a week!
Railway Settlement
The situation might have
been very different if, as has
happened before, the strike had
spread. Nobody wants a
general strike, least of all the
unions.
An encouraging contrast was
the down-to-earth attitude of
the railway unions, who showed
practicability, reasonableness
and, above all, willingness to
co-operate with the Transport
Commission and the Govern-
ment.
They know the facts too well.
The railways are a declining
industry and deep in the red.
If fares and charges go up,
receipts come down. And the
union-leaders have realised that
the Government will no longer
make good the mounting losses
(the £250 million that was made
available in 1956 to cover
deficits over a seven-year
interim period is in danger of
running-out at the end of this
(the third) year.
Two of the unions immedi-
ately and, no doubt, thankfully
accepted the 3 per cent,
deferred-pay offer ; a third, the
N.U.R., was reluctant, held-out
for more, but had to give way.
Even so, the concessions are
generous in the light of the
Government’s declared policy
and it is by no means certain,
in view of past experience, that
the workers will honor the
agreement. Moreover, the
bringing-forward of the date
(June 30) will involve further
economies of over £2 million.
The extent of these economies
will need to be extremely
severe if all the conditions are
to be satisfied.
It will be easier, perhaps, to
close-down unprofitable lines
than to put an end to restrictive
practices or to dismiss staff
(a figure as large as 20,000 has
been mentioned). The settle-
ment is, unfortunately but
inevitably, not a definitive one.
Another pay crisis is certain
next year.
Whether it would be better
to stand firm over the policy
of financial stabilisation and
to check wages - inflation
decisively, even at the cost of
a nation-wide strike, remains
an open question. The Govern-
ment evidently prefers the
peaceful way. But it is clear
that the yearly wage-increase
has grown into a habit that will
be hard, perhaps impossible, to
discard.
“Pop” Goes the Weasel
Dog may not eat dog, but
show-business has no qualms
about showing -up show-
business. “Espresso Bongo” is
a cruel and, at times, bitter
satire on a contemporary
manifestation —the cult of the
youthful recording-star and his
exploitation. Strident, cynical,
decadent and unsavory, it yet
manages to hold the interest
and to extract a measure of
sympathy. There are other
paradoxes, too: the leading
part* of the hard-bitten, utterly
degenerate impresario is taken
by an accomplished classical
actor who, perforce, gets by
with an occasional song; and
the show caricatures the very
audience to whom it would be
expected to appeal.
It is a full-scale affair with
band, chorus 'and the usual
retinue of specialists to
embroider the design of its
creator, Wolf Mankowitz.
Johnnie, the “Soho Shark”
(Paul Scofield), buttonholes an
uncouth but decent Hoxton
lad, translates him with offhand
cynicism into “Bongo” and
brutally exploits him along the
brazen path that leads to the
fantastic summit of teenage
adoration. He is smart, but not
quite smart enough, for a one-
time music-hall favorite, Dixie
Collins (Hy Hazell), takes pity
on the boy, and with a posses-
siveness that is rather less than
wholesome, wins him away,
contracts and all, from Johnnie.
The rest is decoration, by
savagely pertinent lyrics,
characteristically lurid and
shallow music, and spectacle
cleverly devised to mirror, as
it were, the jiving of the young
and the jinking of the immature
but not so young.
Fortunately there are
dramatic undertones strong
enough to counteract the pre-
cipitation of disgust. Bongo,
for instance, is a pitiable
creature (played, too, with
astonishing realism by James
Kenney) and the Hogarthian
glimpse of his degraded, feck-
less and angry home is un-
comfortably nearer to truth
than fancy. Also affecting is
Johnnie’s woman of con-
venience (Millicent Martin), a
female Archie Rice but loyal.
There is, in fact, affinity with
“The Entertainer,” both in
conception and in the staging,
and Scofield’s technical
brilliance is no less dazzling,
if more restricted, than
Olivier’s.
Loudon Sainthill’s 15
sets and backdrops, garish and
squalid and opulent, instantly
establish the moods.


Uncle Foss and Big Bogga
By HAL PORTER
BIG BOGGA
'J'HIS story won Ist Prize in the Sydney Journalists*
Club’s 1957 competition for the best short-story
by an Australian.
As I grow older I am
increasingly fascinated
by the interlocking
circles which link past
with present, a remoter past to
a less remote. One has con-
stantly to revalue the very
quality of appearances, to give
a testimony at seven-thirty-two
one considered grotesque at
half-past seven.
Uncle Foss (Foster was his
full Christian-name) and Big
Bogga (his correct name
escapes me) —who could have
foretold that in the opera of
loneliness of which the score
is, world over, the same but
the libretti infinitely varying,
these two so unlike should sing
the same words to an aria?
Uncle Foss was the perfect
country boy’s uncle.
A photograph of the 1890’s,
glazed as brawn, shows a
young swashbuckler, straight-
nosed, with the fierce, lustrous
regard under meeting eyebrows
of a Cinquecento bravo. Such
tarry curls low on the fore-
head, such chiselled lips, such
a Tartar moustache of almost
radar vibrancy.
I never knew him thus,
flaunting the Aimee Vibert
rose and maidenhair-fern but-
tonhole. When I first remem-
ber him he was a widower,
childless, his nose broken in
some hot brawl or brawls, his
moustache mangy: his body
which might well have sprawled
on a Michelangelo ceiling
bore the scorpion-stitchings of
many a bushman’s wound with
bowie-knife, gun, barbed wire,
axe, fish-hook and bicycle-
spill. He shambled, tall and
powerful, across my childhood
and those childhoods of my
brothers and boy-cousins.
Every holiday, bearing obla-
tions of khaki handkerchiefs,
flake-cut, Madeira cakes and
sauce from dead grandmother’s
recipe, there we all were at
Uncle Foss’s, converged upon
him from every part of the
State. Only the curls, less tar-
glossy lacking nineteenth-cen-
tury macassar oil, remained
from the photograph. The eyes
were still molten but an avun-
cular and unimpassioned spirit
occupied them as he greeted us
with gorilla-blarings, towering
in the heat, for it seemed
always hot eleven-in-the-mprn-
ing then, the wind from the
Kilmany Plains shuffling the
loquat-leaves like decks of
cards and the baroque pome-
granate-tree over the well cher-
ishing its elegant miniature
fruit as a collector his netsuke.
We were scallawags, snorters,
young Turks, Sonny Jims, lad-
dies ; we were “ You B. young
B’s.”
We worshipped him.
/~\f what Uncle Foss did
before the lottery - win
released him from doing I
have no knowledge—with the
wisdom or shrewdness of a
simple and limited man he dis-
sipated his windfall in nothing
bu t inexpensive leisure. He
bought no chorus-girls, poli-
ticians or consciences. And
what could travel, bespoke-
tailoring, Perrier-Jouet 1921 or
badger-hair shaving - brushes
mean to him? Beer, and tea
strong enough to walk on,
remained his favorite drinks,
rump-steak drenched in home-
made tomato-sauce his favorite
food ; he preferred a tent by
a bream-river to the White
Hart Hotel grandfather had
preferred too much, he hunted
deer and fokes rather than
women or stock-market bul-
letins, and—l assume—com-
pensated sonlessness by con-
doning periodical broadsides
of nephews.
His house, scoured weekly
by a char-cwm-washerwoman,
remained as it was when Aunt
Mary died: vases in the form
of white rustic fences, tri-
legged bamboo tables, little
spinach-green fringed door-
mats, furlongs and roods of
rigid crochet—pillow - shams,
table-runners, doyleys, duchess-
sets, supper-cloths, lamp-mats,
tea-cosies. The kitchenware
had a medieval quality iron
saucepans and boilers, copper
preserving-pans, mincers and
egg-beaters ominous as instru-
ments of torture, meat-dishes
that could hold a roast yak,
Rassawattee tea -1 in s and
earthenware bread-crocks.
The house was not feminine,
unsexed rather: no flower in
vase, no rubber-plant in jardi-
niere. There was a charwoman-
reek of phenyle. Only the
chimney-piece of the front
room displayed the eccentric
male gesture in a house occu-
pied by males. First, central,
and our delight, was the tower-
ing model of the five-master
Preussen ice-locked in floes of
greenish glass, frosted with
icicles, unmoving and mesmer-
ising. By it slanted a photo-
graph of Aunt Mary staring
like a pallid Clydesdale from
under a hat burdened with
poppies and wheat-ears. The
third object, inexplicable there,
was a hexagonal stud-box of
German silver. The lid-handle
was a silver stud; engraved
UNCLE FOSS
about it the statement we boys
considered screamingly funny:
Don’t swear, here it is! Against
this background is my clearest
memory of Uncle Foss, though
there are countless others.
T see camp-fire light on his
wrecked face as he ladles
kangaroo-tail soup into enamel
plates while moon-mad swans
queue across heaven; I feel
again my leg-nerves run icy as
he recounts hoarse weirdnesses
about bunyips, fireballs and
bushranger - murders. Today,
the smell of reeds, manouka
or summer grasslands recalls
instantly that unworldly world
—duck-swamp, quail-paddock,
blue blink of kingfisher, stately
stroll of egret. I still laugh with
middle-aged 'cousins at the
grilling afternoon on the
Ninety-Mile Beach near The
Honeysuckles where naked
Uncle Foss and eight frog-
naked boys, salmon-fishing,
were surprised by women in
floppy hats tramping over the
dunes. Baying blasphemously,
hands in the posture of classic
modesty, Uncle Foss with lol-
loping buttocks cantered into
the ocean, we boys, imitating
modesty, with him. From the
boiling soapsuds we glared,
Triton and retinue, until the
chirruping women scurried off
like Tauregs through the
kikuyu.
But the clearest memory is
of the front-room, the gasolier


‘KEY MEN". ... No. 1
• • •
mmm&r
U
m
r§
■<*m
z-w<
? Mm
M
:■■ i
■
mm
rnvvSi
mm.
THE MINOR PROBLEM is caring for family and personal financial needs
from income after tax.
THE MAJOR PROBLEM is to provide enough surplus out of taxed income
to guarantee financial security at retirement and/or on death.
A.M.P. “Key Man” insurance is being used extensively as a solution to
the major problem.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
GENERAL MANAGER: M. C. BUTTFIELD
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by funds exceeding £375.000.000 which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.
TiTiS


start the day right!
wS®?®
»«»«•«
CB6^2
popping, boys reading Chums
or Chatterbox, Uncle Foss
emptying his third bottle of
beer and, suddenly, full-stop
to some secret sentence of
thought, announcing in the
cricket-thridded and page-turn-
ing peace, “Poor bloody old
Mary! Poor bloody old
Mary!” Startled, we glanced
at him, eyes skidding instantly
from his enormous, spurting
tears to the Clydesdale-like
face under its preposterous hat,
next to the ice-captured
square-rigger, before returning
to stories by Frank H. Shaw,
articles on “How to Make a
Rabbit Hutch” or colored
pages of flags of the world.
All this, in days when the
world flew flags, I knew ; and
Uncle Foss’s country cathe-
dral-town which now has
neons stating Espresso, Eats,
Fish and Chips, Milk Bar,
Hamburger Max had none of
these things, when hedges
were plumbago, roses scented,
tomatoes involuted, when mul-
berry-trees were grown and
only three or four years before
had the last calico Welcome
Home sign been removed from
the front veranda of the ulti-
mate, late, shell-shocked hero
returning from the 1914-1918
war.
Dy the time the next war was
" three years old I was
senior English-master at a
fashionable school in Adelaide.
E - shaped, college - Jacobean,
four-storied, it breasted, the
future with its freight of
futures.
The two-story-high jacaran-
dara fountaining up from the
quadrangle splashed drops of
incandescent purple into form-
rooms where gowned masters
wrote absurd or divine state-
ments on blackboards of slate
and every afternoon elaborate
“Chopsticks” crazily rang from
all six music-rooms. Blacked-
out, its basement walls sand-
bagged, windows criss-crossed
by paper strips, the outskirts
of its playing-fields were bear-
pitted with slit trenches in
which fourth-formers practised
smoking.
“Where, in this day and age,
do these incipient Attilas get
cigarettes of reputable make?”
Big Bogga would say with
pinched and pointed accent.
Big Bogga was Junior Eng-
lish, and very small. Xittle
Bogga, a captain in Army
Intelligence and Big Bogga’s
cousin, was, the common-
room told me, big. The
obverse of nicknames was
schoolboy perversity.
Big Bogga was withdrawn,
astringently tetchy, and had'
the rigidity of something
carved painfully from intract-
able substance. His voice, pre-
cise and bd&kish, mocked by
intention his profession he
denigrated himself and all
schoolmasters by parodying
Gunby Hadath parodies: “I
fear, Westinghouse Minor —
that is your unseemly cogno-
men, is it not?—that your pre-
deliction for the double-nega-
t i v e would scarcely merit
Fowler’s approval.”
He was a disciplinarian tart
as a guava, a collector of
examination-skulls. The boys
didn’t like him. I didn’t dis-
like him though there was a
spiritual and a sniffable musti-
ness about him as though he
rarely showered intellectually
or actually. On his foolscap-
white collar there was always
one spot of shaving-blood.
The school, like most during
war, had a feverish, off-centre
and exotic atmosphere.
Youriger masters Little
Bogga was one —were at the
front. So were those senior
boys who should have been
rowing- or cricket - heroes,
school- or house-prefects, in-
fluences. The school was, so
to speak, filleted.
Youngsters were pseudo-
seniors ; inferior masters with
a taste for wardrobe drinking
or the maids weakly deputised.
There were even, first time in
the school’s history, two
women on the teaching-staff.
Siamese princelings, Nauru
chieftain’s sons, several Singa-
pore millionaires’ Chinese sons
by Number One Wives, and
the ceaselessly masticating
child of a Dutch consul added
a Greyfriars, Tom Merry note
In the midst of fictitious air-
raid warnings, brown-out, the
white outlining of stair-risers
and the eternal whistling of
“Run, Rabbit, Run,” while
searchlights probed the
innocent clouds with’
tender indecision, Big Bogga
had his appendix removed.
In magnanimous mood, and
because I disliked a city
raucous with Americans and
their floozies who could
always buy a table at the
South Australia Hotel when I
couldn't, I took-over his extra
duties while he was in hospital.
When he returned I
refused financial reimburse-
ment. “You can repay in
kind,” I said. “I can always
use nights-off from prep.-
duty.”
But Big Bogga, frailer, pale,
with a forget-me-not stare,
insisted on the tactics of
noblesse oblige with the trucu-
lent regality of a dauphin. He
invited me to try his home-
brew. Beer was as rare as pork
was,, then. \ was inquisitive,
too. So I had my one, my
only, night out with Big
Bogga.
TIE lived alone in an upper-
suburb. His
garden, a horticultural slum of
unpruned grape-vines, olives
and poinsettias, was mysteri-
ously littered with tea-crates—
I saw Mangalathee, Gebroken
Oranje on one in the street-
lamp light.
Admitted to the large house
I was immediately aware that
he had altered nothing since-
his mother’s death years ago.
I sensed a behind-the-scenes
bachelor seediness: egg-
sulphuretted spoons, cups
encrusted with dried sugar,
frying-pans of stale grease in
which pieces of burnt sausage-
meat paraphrased the Bay of
Islands.
Apparently a fortnightly
cow-lick was all a slummocky
char could manage; the
drawing-room where we
drank was scarcely Miss
Haversham’s but had the
same transfixed air of-having
stopped when the Vulliamy
clock had, years ago. Slumber-
ing flies chicken-pocked the
ceiling ; their excrement and
that of their ancestors was
written on everything. Webs
in the small chandelier were
not of horror-film texture but
gauzier, veiling like thistle-
down so that I blinked as
though my eyes were faulty
and blinking would make the
chandelier and the green-
stemmed hock-glasses in the
Queen Anne cabinet sparkle,
the vast looking-glass" above
the. fireplace glow and reflect.
To the end all stayed filmed,
smeared, intangible. A per-
vasive toadstool-smell I recog-
nised ; it was the smell of
Big Bogga. When I sat a
ghostly pepper of dust
puffed from the Genoa velvet.
The evening unravelled, a ball
of dirty wool, as we sampled
numerous various brews.
They, at least, were fresh.
Later, he proudly guide-
toured me through the cellar;
its scientific cleanliness was
startling, the brewing experi-
ments arranged, dated, docu-
mented with pedantic care.
Amazement and visitor-
behavior made me flatter him,
although I felt unnecessarily
and insultingly distressed, sad.
As we left the cellar he said
brusquely, n decision made, “I
want to show you something
I’ve never shown a soul.
Follow me'.”
Fox-terrier perky he trotted
ahead down a side-passage. He
fiddled out his keys and un-
locked a door, embarrassing
me with an out-of-character
wink and remark, “Mum’s the
word! ”
The room was a sort of
lumber-room containing such
relics as an athenienne, a
plush-framed looking-glass on
which bulrushes were painted,
tin trunks, golf-sticks of 1905
clumsiness, lurid oleographs—•
“Vesuvio in Eruzion e,”
“Palazzo donn’ Anna,” Lean-
ing Towers of zinc garden-
labels. I watched enthralled as
he mounted a Savonarola chair
to grope behind a dusty
reproduction of Leighton’s
“Bath of Psyche.”
Descending, he said con-
spiratorially yet primly, “Dis-
cretion ! Discretion! There’s
a war on,” and displayed a
key with which he began to
unlock the drawers of an
enormous satinwood tallboy.
“Go on, open them,” he
said, his miniature eyes
aglitter like sequins. “When
war started I foresaw all this
slovenly rationing, so .. .”
I opened the first drawer.
It was weighted, full of tins of
salmon. The next was brim-
ming with tins of sardines.
Eight deep top-drawers, two
double-width bottom ones,
were crammed with rationed
goods—even boxes of. matches
with two striking-surfaces
instead of the war-time one.
Astounded and impressed, I
said so.
Visibly gratified, he locked-
up his hoard, climbed on the
chair, replaced the key behind
Psyche, extinguished the light
on discarded past and accumu-
lated future, locked the door,
rattled the handle to be certain,
said again, “Mum’s the word!”
and led me back to drinking.
It matters little what we said
during the rest of The evening;
drink traduces all men to the
(Continued on page 57)


y-y-'-'fr*
km
m
«
%
6
«f|ggr
r §,\
.
m
\
&
<5?
ar 4^
V
’/
s
S'*
O
a
m
a
a
*r.i
a
Vp
a
o
P
■ •
Gillette
iPi
■•• • $
IP
:;
shaves leave your-face REFRESHED
i ,<>
■
What really counts in a good shave is the
clean, fresh feeling that follows! Line up
water, lather and a super-sharp Blue Gillette
Blade that feeds instantly into a quick-action
Gillette Razor! Shave! Then run your finger-
tips over your chin! Your skin feels really
smooth and clean ... so cool, fresh and
comfortable! And it stays that way much
longer! Start today with a Gillette shave—
the most refreshing shave of all!
QUICK-FEED
DISPENSER )
Dispensers come in
10-Blade and 20-Blade
sizes at no extra cost—4/4 and 8/8
ROCKET
SET
12/-
Brins your shaving up to date with a Gillette One-Piece Razor Set—From 12/- to 45/-
ZIWA


Fighting the Renshaw Plan
With its proclamation in the
N.S.W. “Government Gazette”
the Renshaw Plan for abolishing
two shires in the Mitchell region,
emasculating two more and mildly mal-
treating the boundaries of the remaining
three has reached another staging-camp
in its programmed march towards
finality.
So far, from the viewpoint of the
master-planners of Mr. Renshaw’s
Department of Local Government,
everything may be considered to have
gone according to plan—and it is a plan
which has proved remarkably successful
in other parts of N.S.W.
Successful, that is to say, in the eyes
of the Minister and his department. What
the people who are allegedly the bene-
ficiaries of all these amalgamations think
of them is, of course, a very different
matter. On the occasions when they
have been given the chance to express
themselves on the subject many of them
have been very pungent in their
comments on departmental map-spoilers
who regard local-government boundaries
as mere lines on a map and citizens and
ratepayers as so many sheep to be trans-
ferred from one paddock to another in
the interests of tidiness, symmetry or
concentration of political power, without
any regard for their wishes or opinions.
How It is Done
TThe pattern of these amalgamations is
■*- now so familiar that any officer of
Mr. Renshaw’s department, given the
names of a couple of shires and a muni-
cipality, should be able to work-out the
answer without even looking at the map.
First, a request is received from' a
local-government area for an alteration
of boundaries. The request need not
come from the council, or even from a
majority of the council. Even a request
from an ex-mayor has been known to do
the trick. The department, it seems, is
very tenderhearted where these requests
are concerned ; it simply can’t refuse one
—provided, of course, it will serve as a
basis for combining two shires into one,
or for enabling a municipality to swallow
a shire (or vice oversa) 0 versa) or for scrambling
the lot and calling the resultant mess a
Greater Something-or-other.
The second step consists of sending to
the area an investigator charged with the
responsibility of hearing the views of the
men on the spot. On paper this sounds
a very good idea, but unfortunately the
investigator—who is invariably an officer
of the department—is not charged with
the responsibility of taking any notice of
the views expressed to him. And, on the
evidence of scores of amalgamations that
have already taken place, he takes no
notice of them—unless they happen to
concur with the departmental blueprint
for the area. At this stage the Minister
will stoutly contend that no blueprint
exists and that the investigator, after
duly weighing-up the pros and cons, will
produce a plan designed for the greater
good of the area.
After a decent interval the investigator
produces a plan. In many cases it is
quite a good plan—provided it is regarded
as referring merely to lines on a map and
not to actual land and to actual human
beings who live on that land, have been
born and bred there and who get their
living from it.
The cold, impersonal view of the
department towards such plans is illus-
trated by the manner in which the plan
for the Mitchell region was announced.
The Minister released the news of this
scheme, which vitally affected all the
residents of a large area stretching from
the Blue Mountains to beyond Orange,
without even showing them the courtesy
of telling their elected representatives
beforehand. The shire-councillors of
Blaxland and Canobolas first learned of
the proposed abolition of their shires
from a bald announcement on the radio.
Stage Three is completed by the publi-
cation of the plan in the “Government
Gazette,” with an intimation that objec-
tions to it must be lodged within 30
days. The Act provides that objections
must be investigated at a public inquiry
—a very sound provision, except that the
commissioner appointed to hold the
inquiry is invariably an officer of the
department. And in the heart of every
man who gives evidence before him is the
feeling that no matter how sound and
logical a case he presents, the investigator’s
mind is already made up, and that his
recommendation will be in favor of the
department’s plan. And in nine out of
10 cases it is, with the tenth one probably
a matter of deferred sentence.
Bathurst Protest Meeting
Tn the Mitchell region proceedings have
reached the stage where objections are
being lodged. In due course an officer
will be appointed to “investigate.” It’s
a pity he wasn’t in, Bathurst on Tuesday
of last week when a public meeting was
held to protest against the Renshaw
Plan. He would have heard over 800
people from the shires of Abercrombie,
Blaxland, Canobolas, Oberon, Rylstone
and Turon loudly acclaim speakers who
condemned it.
He would have heard them
unanimously agree to resolutions describ-
ing the proposals as “revolutionary in
design, devoid of sound reasoning,
contrary to all principles of good local-
government and repugnant to a demo-
cratic people,” and urging an emphatic
protest to the Premier against any major
alteration of boundaries which would
result in “further expansion of
bureaucratic control, creating discord and
stagnating development.”
At this stage the officer would probably
have crept out, missing further resolu-
tions which urged an amendment of the
Local Government Act to provide that
no major alterations of boundaries
should be made without the prior
approval of the electors at referendum ;
failing this, that inquiries should be
determined by a judicial commissioner
and not by an officer of the department.
Still, even a Department of Local
Government officer would probably
have acknowledged the aptness of the
description given to these forced
amalgamations by Councillor A. C.
Marshall, president of the ‘ Shires’
Association, who in his 20 years’ experi-
ence of local-government has seen plenty
of them. Councillor Marshall said he
had told the Minister for Local Govern-
ment that such amalgamations were
nothing more than shotgun weddings.
Mr. Renshaw had replied, “Well, there
haven’t been any divorces.” Councillor
Marshall said to his Bathurst audience,
“I ask you, are there likely to be any
divorces granted when the merry old
matchmaker is also the Judge in
Divorce?”
The commissioner’s ears would surely
have burned had he heard the president
of the Shires’ Association, in referring to
“the whole discredited business of com-
missions and inquiries,” say that the
feeling Was inescapable that the findings
of the inquiries always depended more
on preconceived ideas than on the
evidence. There was no real appeal
against the department. There was
merely an appeal to the department.
Illustrative of the attitude of depart-
mental officers to the opinions of men
on the spot is an incident reported to
the meeting by T. A. Whiteley, president
of Canobolas Shire Defence Organisa-
tion. Whiteley recalled that in October
last he produced to the departmental
officer Who was holding an inquiry in
Orange, protests signed by 1700 rate-
payers. The commissioner waved them
aside with the remark, “I’m not interested
in numbers, only facts.”
Is that what citizens have become in
the eyes of the bureaucrats —mere
numbers? The Minister seems to be of
the same mind as his officers. He accepts
a majority-vote as the essence of
democracy in caucus, in Cabinet, in
Parliament, in party r preselection ballots,
in elections for Parliament, even in
elections for shire and muncipal councils.
But on the question of council
boundaries he rejects the democratic
principle as unlikely to produce a well-
informed body of opinion because the
residents can’t be expected “to have an
appreciation of all the features involved.”
The people of the shires of the Mitchell
region of the Central West claim that
our whole democracy is built on the
assumption that people do have such an
appreciation of issues involved in poli-
tical questions, and that if this is denied
then the whole basis of democracy
collapses.
Undeterred by the failure of people
in other parts of the State to preserve
their liberties against the onward march
of the bureaucrats, they are determined
to fight to the limit to prevent themselves
being Renshawed out of their rights.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A.
Managing Director.
Q. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON.
Thone: BW 8861.
B. J. LANE, Manager.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM.
Sydney Racing
Horses engaged in the
Q.T.C/s £lO,OOO Strad broke
Handicap competed la£t week-
end at Eagle Farm and at
Rosehill. At the Brisbane track
unfancied Cherete sprinted to
easy victory in the Lightning
Handicap from another out-
sider, Town Buzz, and a Sydney
challenger, Gold Stakes, while
at Rosehill Chieti also caused a
surprise when he defeated
several Stradbroke hopes in the
Flying Handicap.
• • * •
Cherete is a top-class filly,
and she covered the five
-furlongs in the smart time of
59 3-10 sec. She carried 8.7
and drops 41b. in the Strad-
broke next Saturday week.
Some of those beaten in the
Lightning should be better
suited by the longer Stradbroke
distance. Gold Stakes, for one,
should be improved by the
experience of Brisbane condi-
tions. New Zealander Yaha-
beebe let supporters down
badly in the Lightning and will
need to improve smartly to land
the Stradbroke.
From the Stradbroke point
of view the most encouraging
performance at Rosehill was
that of Grenoble in the Flying
Handicap. Carrying 9.5, 41b.
more than his Brisbane impost,
he came from the rear
of the field and finished
fifth, running on strongly
over the final furlong.
The A.J.C. Doncaster winner
needed a sharp pipe-opener for
the northern trip.
In the Doncaster Grenoble
defeated Teranyan, a stable-
mate of Gay Port. Teranyan
ran in the Rosehill Flying
and surprisingly was backed
to equal favoritism, though at
his two prior starts he had raced
at a mile-and-a-quarter. He
came home well in third place,
the seven furlongs proving too
short for him.
• x • • •
All courses come alike to
veteran New Zealander On
Parade, easy winner of the
Rosehill Welter. He had won
at Hawkesbury three days
earlier and was penalised 31b.,
which took his original weight
to 10.5. As at Hawkesbury, 17-
year-old apprentice Ray
Denham was given the mount
and On Parade’s weight was
reduced to 9.12. Denham rode
a well-judged race for his first
city success, and should get
more opportunities. On Parade
has won at Moonee Valley and
at Jdemington, at Eagle Farm
and at Ipswich (Q.). He is
trained by Doug Webster, who
has won in all 177 races on
visits to Australia. In the past
month he has won five races,
two with No Boots, two with
On Parade, and one with May
Day.
* • • •
With a little luck former
paddock bookmaker Jack Shaw
“Yes, right after lunch We head into gorilla-country."
, . 9
could have landed a double at
Rosehill, but Illinois (Welter
Handicap) found On Parade
and Game Archer too good for
him. Illinois came from 10th
at the top of the straight for
third money. Shaw’s other
runner, Gay Delville, won the
preceding event, the Auburn
Stakes, at 13 to 2, scoring in
a head-and-head finish over the
favorite, Praetorian, and
Superbly. It was Gay Delville’s
first success.
Tapu, a showy chestnut two-
year-old, colt by Emperor (Fr.)
from Sans Touche, -won his
first race, Rosehill Second Two-
year-old Handicap, in brilliant
style. He had finished in minor
places at three prior outings.
His trainer, Morrie Anderson,
bought the colt’s yearling half-
sister by Stokes (imp.) at Syd-
ney’s Easter sales for 225gns.
Dam of the pair, Sans Touche,
is by Neptune (imp.) from
Joyous by Chief Ruler (imp.)
from Limelight by Solferino
(imp.). Saint Warden and
Starland (Auckland Cup) figure
in the pedigree. Limelight was
a top staying mare in New
Zealand.
• • ■ •' •
Man of Iron did well in
beating all the older horses
except Chieti in the Rosehill
Flying. Winner of the
A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes
and other juvenile races, Man
of Iron looks like adding the
Q.T.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes
to hi§ wins. That classic, worth
£2500 and run at seven
furlongs, will be decided on
Brisbane Cup day, Monday,
June 16. At Rosehill Man of
Iron was close to the lead
all the way, and was beaten
less than a length. s
A number of Brisbane Cup
horses had a run last Saturday.
The best display was Sydney
stayer Baystone’s win in the
Suburban Handicap (11 fur-
longs) at Eagle Farm. Baystone
is trained at Randwick by Jack
Green, who was in Brisbane
to see Gold Stakes and Bay-
stone run. Baystone’s Bris-
bane Cup ppinter was sound
enough to send him to fourth
favoritism for thr two-miler.
He carried 8.1 in the Suburban
and drops to 7.10 in the Cup,
and he should be a real light-
weight prospect. Placegetters
Rin Tin and Book Link figure
in the Cup weights, in which
Book Link, one of the favored
horses, drops to 8.12, or 61b.
less than lie carried in the
Suburban.
• • • •
Sydney jockey Neville Sell-
wood, after a five-months’
absence from the saddle,
returned to race-riding at Rose-
hill, but wasn’t in luck. From
seven mounts he rode two
seconds, outsider Brendie and
favorite Grand Charles, and a
third, Teranyan. During the
afternoon he was twice handed
a warning by the stewards over
his riding. It was not a happy
start after so long an absence.
• • • •
Improving on earlier displays,
Bold Emperor had a runaway
win in the colts and geldings'
Two-year-old Maiden Handi-
cap at Hawkesbury. Trained
at Randwick by Jack Green,
the gelding cost 1500gns. 3S
a yearling at the 1957 Rand-
wick sales. He is by Emperor
(Fr.) from Fetch, who won
races at Randwick, Hawkes-
bury and in northern country
centres some years ago. Fetch
is a half-sister to Sea Sovereign
(A.J.C. and Q.T.C. St. Legers),
Callide River and Smooth
Stream. Bold Emperor has
a sound staying background.
• • • •
W. A. (Bill) Wilson, first
trainer of Sir Falcon, winner of
the 1950 Sydney Cup, landed a
double at Hawkesbury with
Oro Star and St. Fabian. Oro
Star won the Maiden Seven
and St. Fabian the Second
Improvers. Oro Star, a big
grey gelding by Snow Star, sire
of several smart sprinters,
finished third in a Newcastle
race earlier in the month. St.
Fabian had been placed at two
of his three prior starts.
Pantomime, whose wins in-
cluded the A.J.C. December
Stakes and the Kirkham Stakes,
is proving a successful brood
mare. Her progeny include
winners French Fable and
Royal Fable. Another of her
foals, Kaoru, in her first race-
start, won the Hawkesbury
Two-year-old Maiden for
fillies in promising style. Kaoru
is by Emperor (Fr.), and is
trained at Randwick by Peter
Lawson. Pantomime is by
Ajax from Ajixa (A.J.C. Gim-
crack Stakes) by Brueghel (It.).
* * *
“Brentna”: Sydney hoop
Arthur Ward had poor luck,
during a recent holiday in
W.A. On the Saturday follow-
ing his arrival he rode at
Perth’s headquarters, but did
not land a winner. During the
running of his first race he was
struck by another jockey’s


QUEENSLAND
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
whip as they battled it out in
the straight; the local boy got
a short suspension. At the
midweek meeting Ward again
failed to win a race. To top it
off, he was due to ride some
particularly good things on his
last Saturday in Perth, but
by then he was confined to bed
with a heavy cold, and couldn’t
ride^
* * *
“P.0.M.C.”: “You’re like
those crack jockeys you talk
about,” she told me tartly.
“You’ve always got an
excuse!”
* * *
—and Melbourne
Melbourne racing last Satur-
day was conducted by the
Moonee Valley R.C. for the
benefit of Victoria’s hunt-clubs
—one of the two such meet-
ings staged during the year.
Not all Melbourne racegoers
are happy about these meet-
ings, and a section of the Mel-
bourne press is openly hostile
to them, holding the view that
hunt-club members are wealthy
enough to finance their own
activities. The view of the
clubs is that their primary
object is not the hunting of the
fox but the encouragement of
horse-breeding and -riding.
The link between the clubs and
city racing goes back to 1899,
when the first Hunters’ Steeple-
chase was run on Moonee
Valley Cup day for a prize of
£l5O donated by an Oaklands
Hunt Club member. Down the
years since then some of Mel-
bourne’s best steeplechasers
have come from the hunt-club
ranks.
• • • •
To be eligible for Saturday’s
Yarra Glen and Lilydale Hunt
Steeplechases, horses must
have hunted with a recog-
nised pack of hotinds at least
five times during 1957, or twice
during 1958. Entries could be
ridden by amateur or profes-
sional riders, the professionals
to carry 101 b. penalty. The
race was won by nine-year-old
gelding Parrita, ridden by
amateur horseman K. Morley.
The average racegoer is in the
dark about hunt-club form,
but most punters followed the
strong betting move for the
winner, who shortened from
5 to 1 to 5 to 4 and won very
easily.
• # • •
Reference was made here
last week to the consistent
form shown by Melbourne
two-year-olds this season. That
form has been maintained at
all tracks, but has been quite
remarkable at Moonee Valley.
Racing was again at the “little”
course last Saturday. For the
third successive Valley meet-
ing the two-year-old event was
divided into three heats. Each
of those nine races has been
won by the short-priced
favorite.
• • • •
Tlje method by which races
are divided —alternately down
the scale of weights—means
that the better-class horses are
drawn in separate divisions. It
would make for more interest-
ing racing, at least from the
betting angle, if the divisions
were made in sections with the
heavily weighted horses drawn
together, but that would be
unfair to the owners of the
better-class runners.
• • • •
The consistent Webster, not
surprisingly a 7-to-4-on chance,
was untroubled to win the first
heat of the Olinda Handicap,
run over the six-furlongs-/&M-
20yds. journey. This leggy
youngster, by the imported
Blue Booklet from the St.
Magnus mare Melorna, has
now won three times in a row,
and has not had to do his best
in any of those wins. Webster’s
dam is not in the stud-book,
Which bars Webster from the
classics.
• • • •
Result of the second heat of
the Olinda was a foregone con-
clusion. The speedy Newtown
Wonder gelding New Trend
started at 4 to 1 on, and
won as easily as the betting
indicated. The track at
the Valley was typical winter
going, a type of surface which
does not suit the Newtown
Wonder stock, and it was
noticeable that New Trend
shifted about a bit. When he
gets on a firm track, it will
take a speedy youngster to
keep within sight of him.
The pattern set in the first
two heats of the Olinda was
repeated in the third. The fav-
orite, Chic, another odds-on
chance, won just as comfort-
ably as the other two favorites.
To add to the comparison,
Webster and Chic have won
three races,. New Trend two,
and all those wins have been
scored at the Valley—which
adds point to the remark made
on this page before, that the
circular Valley track is a
“specialist’s” course. By suc-
cessful sire Jambo (imp.) from
Miss Dianne, Chic has been a
good money-spinner at the
400gns. she cost as a yearling.
The record of seven-year-old
Eager Son is not impressive, but
he is a better galloper than the
record-book indicates. Unfor-
tunately he suffers from tender
hooves, and the track has to
be just to his liking before he
can show his true ability. In
any case, he is a Solar Bear
gelding, and that stock prefers
the sting out of the ground.
The going at the Valley last
Saturday was just the way
Eager Son likes it, and he
scored stylishly in the 13-fur-
longs Flowerfield Handicap.
There were a number of jump-
ing horses in the Flowerfield,
preparing for the important
races ahead. Of these McKenna
did best, beating more than
half the field home. McKenna
is likely to be the early favorite
for the Grand National Steeple-
chase, and Saturday’s run must
have heartened his connections.
*«• « .
Memories of the many excit-
in g races between former
champions Carbon Copy and
Comic Court were revived by
the 10-furlongs Healesville
Handicap for three-year-olds at
the Valley. The winner, Spot-
ted Nose, is a Carbon Copy
gelding, while the unlucky
third-placegetter, Bambara, is
by Comic Court. It was sur-
prising to see Spotted Nose land
the money. He has been racing
around country tracks without
much success. Part-owner and
trainer Les Cole ascribed the
gelding’s improved showing to
Ron Hutchinson’s experienced
handling. Spotted Nose is a
wilful type who pulls hard if
he gets his own way. Hutchin-
son buried him in the ruck for
most of the journey, and, with
his renowned judgment of pace,
let him have his head at the
critical stage of the race. Hutch-
inson is a top-class rider at any
distance, but it is doubtful if
there is a better jockey in the
land over a bit of ground.
* * *
“Zorok”: There is a horse
running on Melbourne tracks
at the moment named Foxley.
I wonder if it could be named
after the fictional Foxley of the
novel of convict days, Ralph
Rashleigh. Though there was
nothing sporting , about that
brutal, bloodthirsty character.
* * *
Trotting
Before a crowd of 18,000-
odd at Harold Park last Friday
night smart Temora pacer
James Scott broke the Qualify,
ing Stakes record with a very
convincing win. Trained by
Eric Harpley and driven by son
Roy, James Scott ran the 11£
furlongs in 3min. Bfsec. —a sen*
sational mile-rate of 2.8|. Pre-
vious record was held by Mal-
niri (winner of the Harold Park
Handicap on Friday night),
with a time of 3.10.
• • • •
James Scott (5 to 4 on) won
by five lengths from Dark
Rebel (5 'to 2), with outsider
First Kiss a neck away third.
The placegetters also broke
the record (3 min. 9}sec.).
Despite his outstanding pro-
mise, it was given out that
James Scott would not run
again at Harold Park this
season. -
• • • •
Gorrelate (favorite at 6 to 4
on) made amends for his
unlucky fourth in the Pacers’
Derby Final when he won the
Three-year-old Stakes by a
length from James Scott’s
stablemate Phillip Mac, with
Tungsten lengths away
third.
• • • •
Starting at 5-to-4 on, smart
Victorian pacer Maestro’s
Melody, from the 24yd. mark,
won the Brisbane Handicap,
his fourth successive race at
Harold Park, by a length
from the fast-finishing New
Memory, with Ronald a close
third. s Second-last on settling
down, Maestro’s Melody raced
round the field to take the lead
in the second lap. Driver Shinn
held Maestro’s Melody back
to the field, thereby pocketing
New Memory on the rails. New
Memory threw-out a strong
challenge in the straight, but
failed to make any impression
on Maestro’s Melody, who
won with something in reserve.
+ +
Sundry Sports
“Frangeo”: The English
Rugby League team defeated
a strong Sydney combination
20-15 at the Sydney Cricket
Ground last Saturday. As the
scores indicate, it was a close,
hard game, but superior play
by the English backs and for-
wards enabled them to score


Missing Friend
KELLY, Dennis—Will any person hav-
ing any knowledge of DENNIS KELLY
believed to reside in Allen Street,
Leichhardt about the year 1907 or his
next-of-kin, please communicate with
MESSRS. GORDON, GARLING &
GIUGNI, Solicitors, Young.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LIEZER GLASS late of 163 Cur-
lewis Street Bondi Sydney in the State
of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that JUTTA GLASS has filed Petition
lor Divorce No. 8391 of 1957 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the Bth day of August 1958 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MORGAN RYAN & BROCK, Soli-
citors, of 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—.l. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Is Divorce.
TO WILTON CAMPBELL GAMACK late
of Taree. Clerk.—TAKE NOTICE that
JEAN GAMACK has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3155 fo 1956 on the ground
of your desertion without just cause or
excuse for three (8) years and upwards
IF you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Macquarie
Street, Sydney by the sth day of August
1958 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. MURRAY
M. HOOKE & SUMMERVILLE, Soli-
citors, 140 Victoria Street, Taree. — J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year —£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to "The Bulletin" or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
four tries to one. Try-scorers
for England were Southward,
Bolton, Challinor and Edgar,
while fullback Fraser kicked
four goals. Sydney’s points
came from a try by Carlson,
five goals by Clifford and a
goal by Holman. After the
game it was found that Holman
had a badly bruised shoulder
and would be out for a fort-
night.
N.S.W. Rugby League selec-
tors caused a shock when they
omitted international second-
rower Norm Provan from the
State side to meet England
next Saturday. Playing for
Sydney against England last
Saturday Provan had one of
his rare off-days. Another
minor shock was the inclusion
of Greg Hawick, who has
played very little football this
year because of residential
trouble and then injuries, but
selectors are prepared for the
latter: they have included
five-eighth Tony Brown as a
reserve.
t • • •
At North Sydney Oval, in
their second game in Australia,
the Maori Rugby Union team,
one man short for all but the
first 7min., easily defeated
“South Harbor” 19-3, five tries
to one. They led 8-3 at half-
time. “South Harbor” defeated
“North Harbor” on May 14
for the right to meet the
Maoris. A fast and open game,
and the margin would have
been more had the Maoris been
able to kick goals—they missed
seven penalty-kicks, most of
them reasonably easy. The
injured Bill Gray, badly hurt
also on the N.Z. tour last year,
will be out for the tour.
South forwards, taller and
heavier, some of them inter-
nationals, were expected to get
a feast of the ball; but the
faster Maori forwards got their
share, particularly in the loose,
and the Maori backs were too
clever and speedy for the
Southern backs. The Maoris’
two first-half tries were by
breakaway Emery and second-
rower Pryor,, both of whom
showed the speed of wingers
in scoring.
The Maoris seemed unlucky
not to be given a penalty-try
late in the second half when
one of their number, after kick-
ing through not far from the
line, was illegally held back,
and when he punched to try
to break free referee Freeman
awarded a penalty to South!
South mulled one certain try,
with the score still at 8-3, when
three of their backs fought
among themselves for the ball
with an open go to the line.
The Maoris play a strong
Barbarian team tonight (Wed.).
* * *
The V.F.L. competition is
becoming topsy-turvy again,
as it was last year, with lowly
teams quite likely to defeat
(or, at the least, really frighten)
the leaders. There were some
unexpected results on Saturday.
St. Kilda, well beaten by Gee-
long the previous week but
with a brilliant half-back line
in action, outclassed Fitzroy
12.17-6.14. The Saints are now
in “the four.” Melbourne,
after dominating the first half,
had to battle exceeding hard
to hold-off Richmond, 12.18-
12.11. Collingwood kicked the
sweep against South, 20.20-9.12.
North hustled and bustled
Geelong, particularly when it
added 8.6 to 1.1 in the second
term, in the only “away” win
of the day, 14.18-4.11. Rover-
cricketer Aylett was brilliant
for North. Footscray, with
Ted Whitten and the restored
Jack Collins (seven goals) its
stars, was too good for Essen-
don (which has lost all of its
five away games so far), 16.11-
13.14. In a real turn-up Carl-
ton, apparently pepped by
the club’s “straight-talking”
get-together last week, jolted
Hawthorn’s premiership hopes,
9.14-9.6.
“Bicky”: V.F.L. footy, as
played today, is a young man’s
game! Most of the recruits
make their debut in the big
time at the age of 17 or 18—
often younger—and are “burnt-
out” by the time they reach
their late twenties. The tempo
of the modern game, with
resultant injuries, will make it
hard for any present-day player
to notch the coveted 200 games,
let alone beat the record of men
like Dick Reynolds, Jack Dyer
and Gordon Coventry, who
all played in more than 300
games.
<* • »
“Zorok”: I see that when
South Melbourne ruckman Don
Keyter, in a recent game,
abused the field-umpire, he was
disqualified for two matches —
which, in monetary terms,
meant a loss for him of £2B.
Had he similarly “talked back”
to a cop, his fine would
probably have been no more
than two-quid.
* * *
“Veryl”: Here are several
notable footballers, who have
retired, through injury or
otherwise, after having begun
the season—Trevor Allan,
Australian Rugby Union
Test captain, then in more
recent years a Rugby Leaguer,
in England and with North
Sydney; Rugby League Test
lock-forward Len Cowie, of
South Sydney; Rugby Union
Test half-back Brian Cox, of
Manly (Sydney); Gordon
(Sydney) fullback-goalkicker
Maurie Graham, who couldn’t
have been too far off Wallaby
selection last year; Geelong
(V.F.L.) back-pocket player
Bernie Smith, winner of the
Brownlow Medal in 1951 ;
Geelong follower Norm Sharp,
one of the most powerful ruck-
men Geelong ever had ; Foots-
cray (V.F.L.) defender Wally
Donald, who played 204 senior
games with the Bulldogs ; and,
by no means least, West
Torrens (Adelaide) h a 11-
forward Bob Hank, twice
(1946 and 1947) winner of the
Magarey Medal and considered
by some to be S.A.’s greatest
post-war footballer.
* * *
Mixed-grill:
Australian Mervyn Rose had an
even less thorny path through to
the French singles tennis-final than
had General de Gaulle to the
Prime Ministership, and in the final
he defeated . Chilean Luis Ayala
6- 6-4, 6-4, taking only 65min.
about it. Australian national cham-
pion, Ashley Cooper, favored to
win the title, was eliminated by
Ayala in their semi-final after he
had won the first two sets.
The mile-race at the Modesto
Relays meet at San Francisco was,
as expected, won by Australia’s
Herb Elliott —in the, for him, slow
time of 4min. 2.7 sec. Tatrori was
second.
At West Melbourne, last Friday
night, Australian lightweight champ.
George Bracken defeated on points
over 12 rounds Filipino Tommy
Romulo, a last-minute substitute
for Italian Germano Cavalieri, who
couldn’t make the weight.
On Saturday, before a crowd of
30,000 at Melbourne’s Olympic
Park, Blackpool defeated Australia
7- at Soccer, after;, leading only
1-0 at half-time. Blackpool has
now had five-out-of-five wins against
Australia.
Provisional winners of the 1958
Ampol car-reliability trial, as given
on Sunday, were Jim Roberts and
Don Garard, of Liverpool
(N.S.W.), in a Holden, with Jack
Witter and Doug Stuart, last year’s
winners, in a Volkswagen, and
Douglas Hughes, in a Vanguard,
tying for second place.


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
* j
Establi ihed 1808 in Reign of
Qeorye 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England, )
N.B.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A “must” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
The wishbone-shaped steel spring
and magazine-flap for a souvenir
Jap, service-rifle. —6712.
Copy of Commercial Timbers of
Australia, by I. H. 80az.—6711.
To buy A Curate in Bohemia, by
Norman Lindsay.—67o6.
To buy copies of All Hallows
(Brisbane) School Annuals for years
1938-43 inclusive. —6710.
Copy of Josephine’s Jottings, an
old book of rhymes.—67o9.
To buy copy of Anatomy and
Drawing, by Victor Perrard.—
6707.
A copy of The Bulletin for
Jan. 31, 1940.—6708.
Information Sought
How does the chromium-plating
process differ from other plating
processes ?
Plating of one metal with another
is done to make the base-metal
more resistant to corrosion, give it
a harder surface or make it decora-
tive.
The plating process consists of
immersing the part in a bath con-
taining a chemical solution; the
part is attached to the cathode
(negative pole) of the electrical
equipment; a piece of the plating-
metal to the anode (positive pole).
When switched-on the circuit
completes itself through the solu-
tion in the bath, passing from the
anode to the cathode.
In effect, the plating-metal at the
anode “dissolves,” passing into
solution in the bath; it is gradually
deposited, as a film, on the base-
“But he LIKES fish!"
metal at the cathode. The part is
removed when the plating reaches
the required thickness. Sometimes
a solution of the plating-metal is
added to the bath; such solution
is usually more expensive than the
actual metal added at the anode.
This system is used for nickel,
cadmium and various other forms
of plating; chromium varies in
detail. The chromium is entirely
in solution in the hath, and the
antimonial-lead anode does not
“dissolve.” Chromium content of
the bath has to be renewed at regu-
lar intervals to replace that
deposited on articles; because of
this and the heavier electrical cur-
rents employed chromium is one
of the more costly plating-processes.
It's usual in ordinary chromium-
plating (car-bumpers, cycle-parts,
etc.) to plate first with nickel to
protect the steel, then deposit
chromium thinly, thus preventing
the nickel tarnishing, and giving a
high finish. This is more effective
than if the plating-thickness is all
chromium. (Information from an
article by Clifton Ackroyd.)
* * * *
History of the Unilever organisa-
tion ?
The history of Unilever, makers
and distributors of soaps and other
household requirements, dates to
the year 1885, when a young Lan-
cashire grocer, William Hesketh
Lever, went into partnership with
his brother, Darcy, to manufacture
household-soap. They made a
revolutionary change in soap-selling
by wrapping tablets of soap in special
paper. Beginning production in
1886, Lever Bros, expanded rapidly,
and with the introduction of soap-
flakes and soap-powders Lever
turned his attention to raw-
materials. To ensure supplies he
acquired oil-palm plantations in
Africa and copra plantations in the
Pacific, as well as operating
whaling-fleets in the Arctic.
In 1891 he opened a plant in
Australia for the extraction of oil
from copra; in 1900 his first fac-
tory started producing soap here.
When Lever Bros, began operations
in Australia their chief competitors
were J. Kitchen and Sons, of Mel-
bourne, and W. H. Burford and
Sons, of Adelaide. Even at this
early date Lever Bros, and Kitchen’s
were linked commercially; however,
it wasn’t until 1914 that Sir William
Lever (as he then was) and John
Ambrose Kitchen discussed an
amalgamation of the two firms.
In February, 1915, Kitchen’s
became part of the Lever group,
although union was not finally
completed until 1922, when Lever
Bros, amalgamated with W. H.
Burford and Sons, Ltd. When this
took place capital was provided for
extensive new works. Considerable
energy was devoted to building-up
the business outside the U.K. Trips
were made to various parts of the
world to lay the foundations for
new factories and distributing-
points.
After the founder’s death the
structure of the world group of
companies was gradually simplified
and centralised. In 1929 Lever
Bros, became associated with the
Dutch-controlled European mar-
garine company, Margarine IJnie,
and from the two names the new
title “Unilever” was created.
Unilever today may be numbered
among the world’s largest commer-
cial enterprises. Central head-
quarters of the group is at Unilever
House, Sydney.
* • * •
Sonne information on the key-
board instrument the dulcimer?
From “A.W.”: The dulcimer is
a trapeze-shaped instrument of not
more than 3 ft. in greatest width,
composed of a wooden framing
enclosing a wrest-plank for the
tuning-pins, round which the
strings are wound at one end; a
soundboard ornamented with two
or more soundholes, carrying two
bridges between which are the
lengths of wire intended to vibrate,
and a hitchpin-block for the attach-
ment of the other ends of the
strings.
Anything up to five strings of
fine brass or iron wire are grouped
for each note; laid upon a table,
the instrument is struck with
hammers, the heads of which have,
on either side, hard and soft
leather to produce alternate forte-
piano degrees of loudness. Unlike
the pianoforte, there is no damping
contrivance to stop the sound
when not required; consequently
the tone is apt to get a bit
confused.
The dulcimer is believed to have
originated in the East: it has been
known for ages in Persia, Arabia
and the Caucasus by the name of
“santir.” Its European use these
days is confined largely to the semi-
Oriental gipsy-bands in Hungary
and Transylvania. I have a 16th-
century Dutch carol in which the
following reference to the instru-
ment appears: “There naught is
heard but paradise bird, Harp,
dulcimer, lute, With cymbal, trump
and tymbal, And the tender,
soothing flute.”
• * * a
(1) What has been Australia’s
position in world gold-production
for the past three years? (2)
Figures of total number of ounces
produced by Australia ?
(1) Australian gold-production
(excluding Papua and New Guinea)
totalled 3,197,0000 z. fine in the
three years 1954-1956 inclusive;
Australia would rank fifth in order
of importance. Only seven coun-
tries produced over 500,0000 z. fine
of gold annually in this three-year


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
'SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN WEDDERSPOON formerly of
Prince Edward Street Blackheatli. —
TAKE NOTICE that ETHEL WEDDER-
SPOON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1348 of 1958 on the grounds of
desertion without, just cause or excuse
for throe years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the Bth day of August 1958 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from C. P. DIGNAM, Solicitor, 160
Castlereagh Street,' Sydney.—J.
DOUG HAN; Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO REX DONALD MARTIN MUTER
formerly of 212 Princes Highway Arn-
cliffe.—TAKE NOTICE that JANET
PAULINE MUTER (known as Jeanette
Pauline Muter) has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 923 of 1958 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is
asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of
the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-1957
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by the Bth day of August 1958 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from C. P. -DIGNAM, Solicitor,
160 Castlereagh Street, Svdney.—J.
DOUGIIAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WALTER FRANKLIN ROGER DE
COVERLEY late of 54 Forrest Street
Cottesloe Perth Western Australia. —-
TAKE NOTICE that JEAN MARY
ROGER DE COVERLEY has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 782 of 1958 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by 15th August 1958 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. J. C. HARRIS & CO.,
Solicitors, of 39-49 Martin Place, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar,
r NOTHING EQUALS
L Warmray's Amazing Efficiency!
warm ray
TRIPLE-PURPOSE, SLOW-COMBUSTION,
AIR-CONDITIONING HOME HEATER
mm*
IPI
ii : i;! £
■ ;
'•••-<•■
Model No. 3
Super Do luxe
if Large Capacity
Over 8,000
cu. ft.
if Special large
firebox for long
burning with-
out attention.
if Extra large
hotplate fpr
cooking.
Installs in rooms
with or without
fireplaces.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray"
ACTUALLY COSTS NOTHING!
Model No. 2A Standard
★ Lights in seconds,
warms entire room in
minutes.
★ No smoke or dust to
soil furnishings.
'k Full view of blazing
fire through open or
closed front.
k Modern artistic cream
porcelain enamel on
solid cast iron.
k Heats over 5,000 cu.
ft.
k No dirty fireplaces to
clean.
Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
\de‘A* ustrd,as
rtu h° 9 ?,< most successful
Your
<s
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL—REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
i
£
m
| WARMRAY I
Cheating tubes I
m
The secret of Warmray’s Amazing Efficiency Is the
Patented Heating Tubes (illustrated above), which
are built into the firebox. The air in the room
passes through these tubes continuously, thus
maintaining an even, all-over warmth.
+ BURNS ALL SOLID FUELS
WOOD IS CLEANEST.
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and
Hardware Merchants everywhere.
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney
Telegrams: “Warmray.” BL 2217
If unobtainable locally, phone, write or call
for illustrated Brochure and name of
nearest agents.
W2Ol
period. Production-figures refer to
total output for the three-year
period 1954-56: South Africa,
43,729; U.S.S.R., not known;
Canada, 13,301; U.S.A., 5571;
Australia (including Papua and
New . Guinea), 3443 ; Gold Coast
(Ghana), 2112; Southern Rhodesia,
1596.
World gold-production, exclud-
ing U.S.S.R., has been estimated at
25,700,0000 z. in 1954, 26,900,0000 z.
in 1955 and 28,000,0000 z. in 1956.
Estimates of gold-production in
U.S.S.R. are widely divergent,
ranging from 2,000,0000 z. to
4,000,0000 z. in 1954 to 13,000,0000 z.
in 1956. (2) Total mine-production
of gold in Australia to the end
of 1956 and the break-up of pro-
duction by States as reported by the
Commonwealth Statistician are:
Vic. (oz. fine), 73,527.654; W.A.,
58,171,087; Q’land, 22,380.466;
N.S.W., 16.346,665 ; Tas., 2,497,655 ;
N.T., 1,100,588; S.A., 450,369.
Total Australian, 174,474,484.
Brief Answers
A.N.: London’s 26 teaching-
hospitals are in fact groups of hos-
pitals, and include 97 hospitals,
convalescent-homes, branches,
annexes or treatment-centres....
F.M.L.: If, as you say, your
church-organ persists in going out
of tune, suggest you contact S. T.
Noad and Son, 17 Creewood Street,
Concord, Sydney R.R.: No
reason why rubber-based paint can’t
be applied direct, without an under-
coat—provided surface is reason-
ably' clean and free of scratches,
pockmarks, etc H.G.: It would
be wisest not to pursue the action;
put the matter in a solicitor’s hands.
B.L.: The game of Draw
Poker is played by not more than
seven players... .J.H.: If you want
the person to whom you are writing
to know you’re married you should,
strictly speaking, put in brackets
after your signature your husband’s
Christian-name; /'«?., "Mrs. Bill
Jones”.. . .M. 8.: Pretty hard get-
ting hairbrushes rebristled: silver-
backed brushes of the older type
have largely given way to nylon
brushes. Write to the Federal
Broom Co. Pty„ Ltd., 20 Fred
Street, Leichhardt, N.S.W., give
exact size and shape of brushes and
say whether sterling-silver or other
metal J.S.R.: Two-up (also
known as “swy”)... .C.McK.: (1)
White-mice have no particular
habits,* since they’re kept entirely
as pets in cages. Feed them on
cereals used in the kitchen: cake,
biscuits, rolled-oats, crushed dog-
biscuns, a little lettuce or apple
and any bird-seeds or cage-mixtures.
Once a week give oatmeal rubbed-
up with a little butter and olive-oil.
Water should be provided in a
shallow vessel. (2) You can buy
them in city pet-shops for 3s. each.
(3) Very little market; try Railway
Bird Shop, 476 Pitt Street, Sydney.
. ...J.T.: The Australian family
Home Competition is open only to
architects registered or licensed to
practise in any State or Territory
of Australia, or to members or
student-members of the Royal
Australian Institute of Architects,
or to any student enrolled in an
architectural course at an approved
institution... .K.M.: (1) Before
War I there were R.A.A.F. stations
at Point Cook, Vic.; Laverton,
Vic.; Richmond, N.S.W.; Rath-
mines, N.S.W.; Pearce, W.A., and
Cressy, Vic. (not now in existence).
(2) The R.A.A.F. station at Darwin
was opened on June 1, 1940. (3)
Prior to War 1 R.A.A.F. strengths
were as follows : Personnel —officers,
310; airmen, 3179. Aircraft —246.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
J.N.: Not bad, but the ending
jars F.D.: Come, come! Surely
finches have more to do than
“flutter sky-daubed feathery sails”?'
. ...S.R.: A shadow of promise.
....E.S.; Trim his moustache and
resubmit D.R.: Yes, but you’d
be uphill converting anyone to it
—let alone getting it into print....
M.P.: Stick to the elocution course.
. ...8.V.: Come again in 20
years F.L.: A tangled jungle
of verbiage... .D.M.N.: Presum-
ably “a glass of cased incandescence,
swinging from the ceiling like a
gibbon-ape” refers to an electric-
light bulb... .W.J.S Afraid you’ll
have to go back to sentence-forms
and English analysis K.N.8.:
Well, not too bad for a third effort;
rather stylised and pompous...,
C.P.: That poem staggered into
the w.p.b,


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1812.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS' BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON, Manager.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.S. RECESSION
/Commenting on the Rocke-
feller Brothers’ Fund
report on Uncle Sam’s reces-
sion—“a lag in the consistent
pattern of future growth; by
intelligent management the
gross national product could
grow to $707,000 million in the
next 10 years”—N.Y. “Herald
Tribune” summarises the
prescription:
“Reduce taxes and increase
deficit-spending whenever the
economy slumps (the report
urges this now); increase taxes
and cut spending in periods of
boom.
“Encourage business expan-
sion by allowing quick write-
offs of new plants, and by
moderating the excessive rates
on corporation taxes. Encour-
age individual initiative by
lower income-tax rates, more
equitably applied (e.g., allow-
ing tax-averaging for creative
artists).
“Double our [American]
expenditures for education,
social insurance and health in
the next 10 years; greatly
expand our expenditures for
public works, water-supply,
highways, urban renewal.
“Expand domestic and world
business by progressively
lowering tariff-barriers, elimi-
nation of restrictive business-
or union-practices (feather-
bedding) which limit pro-
ductivity, vigilant enforcement
of anti-trust laws.
“Extend unemployment
insurance to 12-million persons
not now covered, and extend
present coverage to 39 weeks
as a recession cushion.
“Create a National Eco-
nomic Council, to plan our
(U.S.) economic strategy.
“Enlarge the role of govern-
ment in stimulating the growth
of free enterprise, thus achiev-
ing the maximum benefits of
a mixed society in which gov-
ernment plays a constructive,
but not dominating, role.”
This, comments the “Herald
Tri b u n e,” is imaginative
capitalism, able to fit
Illingworth, in London “Daily Mail.”
the “progressive conservatism”
preached by President Eisen-
hower:
“At heart it is nothing more
than a plan to make the utmost
possible use of America’s
biggest single asset—freedom,
flexibility and a Government
aimed at liberating rather than
stifling the free-enterprise sys-
tern and the creative falenfs of
man.”
Leading U.S. columnists are
rather more cautious in their
appraisal of the current eco-
nomic scene. Arthur Krock
(“New York Times”) is not so
sure about the practicability of
the foregoing report, taking
exception to the “platitude”
that “business and labor must
exercise restraint, the former
in its pricing-policies, the latter
in its wage-demands.”
Krock further considers
that the plan for combating
monopolies and collusive prac-
tices by the means of “anti-
trust laws with a balanced
flexibility” is too much of a
generalisation for a study
which is otherwise specific. But
“whatever the reasons for this
soft spot in the study, the state-
ment and recommendations on
taxes and labor ‘rules’ and atti-
tudes that increase production-
costs and impede productivity
are contrastingly strong and
specific. And they enter fields
where politicians sit on the
fences around them.”
In a more general vein,
Walter Lippmann (N.Y.
“Herald Tribune”) sees no
present end to the recession.
Indeed, he nominates two
reasons why the U.S. has not
yet reached the bottom.
The first is that without a
substantial rise in the expendi-
ture of private capital there is
no real prospect of a recovery
without compensating outlay
of public capital in defence,
public works and housing-
subsidies, etc.
Lippmann’s second reason is
that there are signs, as regards
the depressed durable goods,
that the general public is in a
mood to save its money and
make do with what it has,
keeping expenses down as
much as possible and
affairs liquid in case of
unemployment.
Both these reasons, says
Lippmann, incline him to urge
the U.S. to be alert and vigi-
lant against a turn for the
worse in the recession.
Another commentator,
Joseph Alsop (N.Y. “Herald
Tribune”), considers that the
Eisenhower Administration has
committed itself to “hoping
for the best without preparing
for the worst.” He has himself,
he says, taken a “long, hard
look at the situation in
Detroit” and cannot share any
mood of easy optimism. The
President, he thinks, is gamb-
ling on the automobile industry
showing a big improvement
when the new models arrive in
three or four months’ time.
But “if the motor industry
continues to limp, other key
sectors of the American eco-
nomy will limp also.”
Alsop goes on to criticise
Eisenhower for having recently
blamed the motor-manufac-
turers for the recession on the
ground that they had misjudged
the public taste. Such criticism,
says Alsop, is childish and
petty; for, after all, the motor-
manufacturers have to back
their judgment of public taste
in hard cash, and if they bet
wrong they suffer.
If the President thinks
the motor-manufacturers bet
wrong in 1958, then, Alsop
considers, it is highly likely
that he is himself betting wrong
now. For the 1959 models
were designed 18 months ago
and are probably continuations
or exaggerations of the style
the President thinks the public
no longer wants:
“In other words, the most
vital question in the economic
future is whether the American
public will rush to buy the new
cars that will begin to pour
out of the Detroit and other
automobile factories next
September.”
There is another question to
which Alsop admits he does
not see the answer. This is:
What will be the repercussions
of this unemployment, even
at the existing level, in the
great industries?
“The vast labor-force of
these mass-industries,” says


WHY SUFFER FROM
RHEUMATISM °»ARTHRITIS
Compounded from an old Indian Formula, STRATTONS RHEUMATIC
and ARTHRITIS POWDER contains no harmful drugs, will not affect
the heart and has successfully overcome the most difficult and
obstinate cases when all other treatments have failed. Persons in all
walks of life have found freedom from suffering, and hundreds of
grateful letters from satisfied users have been received by our
Consultant whose Treatment Advice is made available to you
FREE OF CHARGE as part of our Personalised Service which has
revolutionised the treatment of all types of Rheumatism and Arthritis,
throughout the Commonwealth. . ,
Four Weeks Treatment complete with Advice and Instructions and a
SPECIAL CONCESSION VOUCHER if your complaint needs
treatment . . . costs only £1 POST FREE.
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC POWDER Ltd.
r 9 Barrack St., Perth, W.A. -
Alsop, “has experienced stable
employment at high wages,
protected by strong unions,
throughout the whole period
since the war. Until they
lost their jobs these workers
regarded joblessness as unthink-
able. They have been further
tempted by the Eisenhower
Administration’s remarkably
relaxed consumer - credit
policy.”
As a result, he continues,
the workers are mortgaged to
the hilt —“they are carrying
time-payments on everything
from automobiles to wall-to-
wall carpeting.” So far (since
the lay-offs of December and
January), with the help of
unemployment benefit, the
time-payments have generally
been met. But what will hap-
pen in the next few months is
a different matter.
Alsop forsees tens of thou-
sands of additional second-
hand cars appearing on an
already saturated market. And
this “long before new cars can
make new jobs.” He concludes:
“Add the snowballing secon-
dary effects of joblessness in
the mass-industries in cities
like Detroit. Add the truly
horrifying social effects on the
people who are due to lose all
they have gained from years
of work. The sum of the addi-
tion is certainly not pretty.”
Prices
A Chicago “Daily News”
comment which might well be
a parable for Australia:
“A reel of barbed-wire, made
in Germany and shipped from
Diisseldorf to New York,
freighted by rail to Cleveland,
hauled from the freight-yards
to the warehouse by truck, still
costs the jobber $4O a ton less
than an identical reel of wire
sold by U.S. Steel in Cleveland.
“The big question is: Can
we [the U.S.] continue to jack-
up wages and prices every year
and still be able to compete
successfully with foreign pro-
ducers?
“Why should a European
buy American products when
he can purchase the same items
for less at home?
“The answer seems obvious,
and it’s costing American jobs.”
Indonesia
London “Time and Tide”
comment on Indonesia’s civil
)var:
“Those who profit most are
the members of the Indonesian
Communist Party, the oldest
in South-east Asia. The anti-
communist revolt in the
outer islands has provided an
opportunity for the Com-
munists to help Dr. Soekarno
eliminate their toughest
enemies, behind the cloak of
‘wiping-out subversion.’
“Addressing a mass meeting
in Djakarta, President
—New York “Herald Tribune"
SILVER LINING?
Soekarno spoke of Socialism
as the wave of the twentieth
century: ‘Some time ago 1
gave a lecture to university
students. I said that in 1917
the Soviet Revolution ushered
in a new world. Now the
number of Socialist countries
has increased to thirteen....
imperialism and capitalism are
the great dangers... .Their
fall is a historical certainty....
Those who cannot understand,
or who oppose the trend of the
times, will be destroyed.’
“Yet last month Dr.
Soekarno was still protesting
he was not a Communist.
“Meanwhile President
Soekarno has arranged for
Colonel Nasser, Moscow’s
broker, to train Indonesian
pilots to fly the Czech and
Polish planes which Indonesia
has purchased in large
numbers. The .first Indonesians
are already in Egypt. Moscow
would appear to be developing
the United Arab Republic as
a training-centre for her over-
seas military-aid programme.
Latest - reports from Singapore
state that Colonel Nasser
recently offered to sell Malaya
a squadron of MIGs and to
provide Egyptian instructors.
Malaya, having signed a
British contract, refused.
“Another step taken by
President Soekarrfo has been
to give landing-rights to the
State-owned air-fleet of Red
China. Thus military advisers,
technicians and other experts
can now fly unnoticed direct
to Indonesia on an all-
Communist airline.
“At their Central Com-
mittee meeting in Djakarta in
April the Communists
reiterated their conviction that
with President Soekarno’s help
they would sweep to victory in
the 1960 general election. They
are making their plans accord-
ingly.
“The Foreign Secretary of
the Philippines, speaking
before a Congressional Com-
mittee in Manila, said that
unless the present trend were
reversed Communism would be
firmly entrenched in Indonesia
by 1959-1960. This develop-
ment would place in the hands
of the Communist bloc one of
the richest and most important
strategic areas in the world.”
Soviet Economic
Challenge
Allen W. Dulles, director
of the U.S. Central Intelligence
Agency, lately gave out some
interesting facts about Russian
competition with the U.S.A.
in foreign trade. He told
his listeners, the members
of the (American) Chamber of
Commerce, that Soviet
economic growth exceeds
America’s by a ratio of two-to-
one and that the Soviet set-up
is proving itself as well adapted
to waging economic war as it is
to any other variety.
Linking Dulles’s statement
with President Eisenhower’s
comment on the current U.S.
recession—“we are meeting a
minor emergency internally”—
“New York Times” notes that
“Mr. Dulles’s address
pointed-up the fact strongly
that it was idle to talk of the
business setback as a purely
domestic phenomenon at a time
when we were engaged in a life-
and-death struggle with Soviet
Russia for the world’s markets.
He [Dullesj said:
“ ‘While the Soviet Union
has been making spectacular
progress the United States has
been losing ground, partly as
a result of a depression, which
has caused production cutbacks
and increasing unemployment.’
And he added, ‘A recession is
an expensive luxury. Its effects
cannot be confined to our own
shores.’ ”
Former U.S. Secretary of
State Dean Acheson followed-
up Dulles’s presentation of the
problem and its implications
by suggesting the outlines of a
programme to meet this
challenge.
The essence of Mr. Acheson’s
proposals, the “N. Y. Times”


adds, “is that we [the U.S.]
live-up to the international
obligations which are implicit
both in our great national
wealth and in our position of
leadership in the free world.
“He [Acheson] would have
the United States, and to a
proportional extent West
Germany, vastly increase their
export of capital, both Govern-
mental and private, to help the
industrial development of
underdeveloped countries. It is
quite obvious that nations such
as Brazil and India, to name
but two of many, have rich
potential if their substantial
human and material resources
are equipped with adequate
capital.
“Conversely, Mr. Acheson
would have the dollar-area of
international trade, primarily
our own country, greatly
increase its imports so as to
provide other nations with
more dollars with which to buy
from us and other nations.
“These problems would be
sound even if there were no
Soviet economic competition.
Many of the tensions of the
world today arise from
poverty and pent-up energies.
A far-seeing programme must
look to diminish these tensions
by raising the standards of the
less fortunate nations. Such
efforts, along the lines Mr.
Acheson proposes, would at the
same time create large numbers
of jobs in our heavy industries,
for the export of capital means
essentially the export of
machines and equipment for
industrial production.”
In England, the problem has
also been mentioned in a state-
ment by Field-Marshal Lord
Montgomery :
“The war we shall have to
fight for the next 10 years
will not in my opinion include
a shooting war in Europe. We
HOW TO LIVE ON
24 HOURS A DAY
You say: “I’ll do it later, when
I have a little more time.”
But right now you have just as
many hours in the day as
you’ll ever get! The point is:
How are you using them? In
June Reader’s Digest, Arnold
Bennett maps out for you what
you can do 24 hours at a time
with “the most precious of
possessions.”
This is just one of 29 enter-
taining and instructive articles
including Tracking the Satel-
lites, The Voyage of the “Lucky
Dragon ” and Crash Landing!
in the June Reader’s Digest.
On sale at all newsagents and
bookstalls. Only 2/-.
now face an economic and
financial war directed at the
very foundations of our civi-
lisation and standards of
living. If we lose it, inter-
national Communism will gain
a bloodless Victory.”
Commenting on Mont-
gomery’s warning, the “York
shire Post” considers that “the
—London “Daily Express”
“SAY, MONSIEUR LE GENERALE... I WARN YOU IT
TAKES TIME FOR US MILITARY GUYS TO LEARN
THE KNOW-HOW .”
West should realise what it is
up against”:
“It is not only that Russia
has a new and mighty industry,
producing all kinds of goods
from raw materials to finished
products up to and including
atomic reactors and superb jet-
airliners. It is not only that
Russia has vast natural
resources of all kinds from iron-
ore to diamonds —a great, newly
discovered Yakutskian field is
a matter of serious alarm to
the Western diamond industry.
The Russian threat is much
more than this.
“One of the most potent
causes of the world economic
slump of the 1930’s was the
dumping on world markets of
cheap Japanese and German
goods produced by workers
whose wages were far below
those of Britain, North
America and France. Those
dumped goods came from
factories which were in private
ownership, and the owners on
the whole looked for and
obtained profits.
“The Soviet Government is
in a very different position.
Not only can it afford if neces-
sary to ignore profits. Not
only is its labor cheap—almost
dirt-cheap. It controls not
particular factories, not par-
ticular industries, but the
entire economy of the whole
huge country and its satellites.
“At any time all that
economic strength, or any
selected part of it, can be
suddenly concentrated on any
chosen sector of the Western
economic defences. Suppose,
for instance, that at a delicate
moment the Soviet Union
threw on the world market a
substantial part of its enormous
[gold] reserve accumulated for
many years past from great and
up-to-date, well-equipped gold-
fields to the North and East of
Lake Baikal in Siberia; it
might well upset the applecart
and lead to a catastrophic
Western slump in which
Russia would incidentally reap
great benefits in cheaper
imports.
“Alternatively, in a similarly
delicate political situation, the
Kremlin could hurl in, regard-
less of its own population’s
needs, vast resources to swing
a vacillating Government of a
minor but key country, and so
turn that key to its own
advantage.
“It is true that even the
Kremlin cannot be entirely
regardless of its own popu-
lation’s needs. Time and again,
especially in the last two years,
that population has made its
voice heard and compelled the
Kremlin to alter its policy to
give way here or there for the
moment.
“But the fact remains that
the Soviet Government’s
control over the whole is far
stronger and far wider than
that of the Government of any
other country. It is to be
hoped that the populations of
other countries, including
Britain, will realise that danger
and adjust their sectional
demands accordingly.
“Field-Marshal Lord Mont-
gomery, describing what he
saw as the means of combating
the Russian economic threat,
stressed the need to maintain
not only military and nuclear
strength, but ‘unity among the
Western Powers. This is the
only thing the Russians fear,
and all their plans are geared
to prevent it.’ Unity among
the Western Powers in eco-
nomic defence is as important,
ultimately, as in military
defence.”
Various Voices
Sir Roy Welensky : “All
Africa is threatened by ultimate
subjection to the dictatorship
of the Kremlin. The battle for
Africa has been joined. What
is happening is not sufficiently
appreciated by the Powers in,
or interested in, Africa, or by
the United States. They do not
appreciate the extent to which
Russia is looking to African
nationalism as a prerequisite for
revolution.”
President Eisenhower: “To
the leaders of Communist
imperialism, economic rela-
tions are merely another means
of gaining control over nations
that become economically
dependent upon the Communist
bloc. It is the Communist
system that the Kremlin is
determined to export. It is the
system of economic freedom
that the Kremlin is determined
to destroy.”
Prime Minister Macmillan:
“It is not the arms-race itself
which causes war ; .the causes
are far deeper than that. But
what prevents war is the
balance of power. Peace has
been preserved so far not
because the West has disarmed,
but because the present balance
is roughly equal. I would not
like to be responsible for the
outcome if we were to abandon
that balance.”


A.P.M. HARVESTS SALT TO MAKE PAPER— (No. 10 of a Series)
Salt plays its part in Papermaking!
Salt sodium chloride is the basic raw
material for the manufacture of chlorine.
The papermaker uses chlorine to bleach
woodpulp which by nature is a dull brown
-h into a clean, white colour.
Caustic soda is a by-product of the manu-
facture of chlorine. It is used in the puip
bleaching process and is also supplied to other
industries.
Therefore, it is easy to see why A.P.M.
Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd. should
operate salt works. A.P.M.’s salt works are
situated near Lake Alexandrina, in South
Australia.
By operating the salt works, A.P.M. assures
ft constant supply of this essential material at
the lowest cost, thus contributing to the efficient
and economical production of high quality
A.P.M. paper and paperboard. *
The operation of the salt works has added
to Australia’s natural resources, especially as
A.P.M. salt goes to other industries, too.
This is but one way in which A.P.M.
Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd. —.
provides employment for Australian workmen,
and adds to Australia’s industrial capacity.
* The term paperboard embraces cardboard ,
fibreboard and other heavyweight papers.
Basically the'same raw materials are used
for paperboard and paper.
%
AgM
Buy Australian Madt
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTIX
Aikman Street, South Melbourne
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale, Broadford in Victoria,
Botany, N.S.W.; Petrie, Queensland; and Bayswater, W.A.


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Bong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £19,800,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 8131 (4 lines)
W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
areas >on land unsuited for
farming.
A rising standard of living
always appears to depress the
birthrate to some extent, and
this, coupled with improved
birth-control techniques, may
allow us to keep populations in
line-with resources.
What is neddecf now is
another of those years in which
nations co-operate purely in
the interests of scientific ad-
vancement. That it is possible
for all nations to get along
well together with one com-
mon object in view has been
shown in the current I.G.Y.
Why not get them together to
pool brains and resources in
the study of all factors
influencing our present and
future ability to feed, clothe,
and generally provide for our-
selves? World-wide co-opera-
tion, even over a limited area
of activity, may help to develop
a few good habits in place of
the shockingly bad ones that we
have acquired over the 20,00 P
generations of human history.
—Magnoon (Qld.).
Hire-purchase
I’m not against hire-
purchase in principle. In
many ways it makes life a
little easier for a workingman
with a family. It’s that word
“easier” that’s the rub. It’s
too easy! A small deposit,
and “easy” repayments make
temptation hard to resist. So
one thing leads to another and
essentials are soon followed
by the luxuries which too
many can’t afford. Soon the
h.-p. indulger is in a first-class,
chrome-plated trap. It may
take time to wake-up to the
fact, but he’ll discover he’s
on a merry-go-round with no
free rides.
And the cost for these
amenities? That TV-set looks
good at a quid down and a
quid as one goes along. But
the fact is that the lovely
£225-worth of questionable
entertainment gets spread over
four or five years, and the
buyer, if he tots it all up,
will find that even without
upkeep it ends-up closer to
Populate and Perish
The earth’s surface at pre-
sent provides about 15 acres
of dry land for each human
inhabitant. For good arable
land the figure is only about
four acres per head. (On the
Darling Downs it takes about
five acres of natural grass to
support a cow.)
Now, a population-graph,
based on estimates of the
world’s population at various
times since man first appeared,
suggests strongly that about .4
per cent, of humanity is now
living—that is to say, of every
1000 persons who have ever
lived four are now living. And
the rate of growth of popula-
tion is increasing. By the end
of this century China alone
should have as many people as
now live in Asia, provided
nothing happens to upset the
present trend.
And as the population rises
our farmland dwindles. In the
U.S. alone one-and-a-quarter
million acres a year are with-
drawn from cultivation and
covered by houses, roads, fac-
tories, airfields, etc. Most cities
are built on good land. And
there is also erosion.
Putting the two sets of
figures together it appears that
in a century the population of
the earth will have doubled,
while about 10 p.c. of its food-
producing area will have been
withdrawn for other uses.
However, there is a brighter
side to the picture. Science is
steadily extending the frontiers
of our farms into land once
considered worthless. On the
farms themselves it is multiply-
ing production per acre. Prob-
ably there is a limit to both
these processes, but it is not
in sight yet. There are even
prospects of scientifically farm-
ing the shallow seas around
our shores, growing crops of
kelp and plankton for human
use. The perfecting of nuclear
power may make it possible to
build our cities and industrial
£425. Can one get ulcers cured
on hire-purchase?
In its more serious aspects
hire-purchase can become an
economic hazard of the worst
sort. Anyone who was in the
“O.K., Muldoon — what's it to be —a sense of humor
or your job ?”
•U.S. in 1929 when the roof
fell on Wall Street will know
what a large part h.-p. con-
tributed to the landslide’s
beginning. And the h.-p.
voltage has been stepped-up a
lot since then. After all, there’s
no elastic in a pound-note.
There is a vast difference
between pessimism and easy
optimism about the weight one
can carry. I have used h.-p.
in the past, and if I don’t
strike oil I’ll probably use it
again. But, if I don’t know
anything else, I’m well
acquainted with my weak-
nesses and just how fast “easy”
living can turn to tough
sledding. Alexander Cann
(N.S.W.).
Bushido
Despite the outcries of th»
humanists, I feel I am still no
less a good citizen, father and
husband for having read Lord
Russell’s Knights of Bushido,
or because that book had the
exact effect on me that the
humanists forecast.
I spent a little more than my
share of time in camps along
the “death railway” of Siam
and Burma. I became
accustomed to awakening to
the work-bugle and finding
corpses on either side of me-
Man can become accustomed


aanjnj
otfj tff
b
Uneven rainfall is one of the natural com-
plexities we are up against in a country nearly
three million square miles in area.
The challenge is big because Australia is big.
And because so much else in our economy hinges
on water resources, I would rate our intelligent
use of them as one of the surest pointers to our
realisation of where we are agoing as a nation.
I am thinking past the highly important
business of storing as much as possible of the
surface run-off. On a geographical research estimate,
one-twelfth of the rain that falls over Australia in
an average year goes into rivers and streams, and
eleven-twelfths go into the soil.
And I am thinking, again, beyond the tapping of
underground streams, which must b,e part of any
drive for the fuller use of available water.
My present point is rather in the welcome
thought that so many individual farmers are now
ensuring that after-rain moisture is held in the
soil and distributed over their gradient land. Along-
with the system of planned catchment and irrigation
known as “wafer harvesting,” this is a significant
development in the practice of working the
Australian land.
I saw the “keyline’ r method of water-saving
in successful operation on a friend’s farm recently.
Bountiful rain had fallen in the district a few
weeks earlier. In the patient months of drought
before it came, my friend had ploughed a series
of parallel lines in contour to the fall in the hill.
Without these lines the wash would have run
freely down the valley, and away; but now much
of it had been held, to seep from the breaks so
that the ground at every stage was moist under
an even crop of rich pasture. The security of
months was cupped in those furrows.
To me it was a revealing example of what
faith and foresight will do. For here was a man
who had been more than ready to accept the
blessing of the rain when it came: he had lengthened
and magnified that gift by his own intelligent effort.
to many things, even as I have
now become accustomed to
peace and harmony. Or I might t
say I had become complacent.
Knights of Bushido shook
me out of that complacency.
I found myself hating, sweating
and fearing all over again.
Dreams that tormented me in
the first year of my freedom
returned with all their terrible
intensity. Hatreds and in-
tolerances were re-kindled along
with memories of unprepared-
ness and incompetencies of the
order that sent in 1000 young
Australians with no weapon-
training to fight a landing-wave
of experienced Japanese shock-
troops and prevented skilled
Australian artillerymen from
firing on perfect targets of
massing Japanese.
Not only was I hating my
former captors again, but I
was stirred into fury over the
activities of our own com-
mand. I recalled retreating 70
miles and not firing a shot;
long lines l of leaderless fight-
ing-men looking for someone
to fight; heroic airmen in
inadequate aircraft ; infantry
without bayonets, grenades,
automatic weapons ; an army
without waters guns that
pointed the wrong way;
untried native allies who left
deadly gaps in defences, and
the multitude of mistakes and
misjudgments that led to the
decimation of a fine division.
I never swallowed the tales
of how illiterate peasant
soldiers were to blame for
atrocities committed against
Australians. Hadn’t I seen the
refinements practised by .the
various educated-in-England
Japanese doctors and inter-
preters?
I can’t say I am pleased to
have been shaken out of my
complacency by Lord Russell.
Hatred is an uncomfortable
bedfellow with a limited
intelligence, but I am disturbed
at how quickly and completely
we can forget, forgive and
overlook. —H. F. B. (Vic.).
Indonesia’s Economy
Whatever our opinions on
the political set-up in Indo-
nesia, it is imperative for our
own safety that the shaky
Indonesian economy should
recover and develop as soon
as possible.
The Indonesian archipelago
is one of the richest natural
areas on the globe, with almost
unlimited manpower. Its rulers
are pretty well aware of its
difficulties, and they have ideas
about the remedies. For
example, the new governor of
the Rank of Indonesia told a
questioner recently that the
immediate problems were
rebellion, illegal barter-trade,
Budget deficit, balance-of-
payments the threat ot'
inflation, and signs of a down-
ward trend in national produc-
tion (a list which might make
Sir Arthur Fadden count his
own blessings).
The first things to be done,
the governor said, were in the
political and military fields,
together with stoppage of
illegal barter and adoption of
an austerity policy in every
Government department. He
also urged increased produc-
tion, especially of rice, and a
greater restriction of imports
of consumer-goods, together
with maintenance or increase
of exports.
The time seems ripe for some
We.stern efforts (concerted if
possible) to stabilise the Indo-
nesian economy by helping the
republic to help itself along
several of the lines mentioned
by the bank’s governor. There
is no easy way out for an
economy so bedevilled by
problems, including political
ones of magnitude; but a
steadying and helping hand
might do a great deal to im-
prove the conditions of Indo-
nesians generally, and at the
same time to make the
prospects of lasting peace in
this area more secure.— Pekoe
(N.S.W.).
Pension Cheques
Give the back-room boys of
Federal Treasury their heads
and they may be depended
upon to conjure-up something
novel ; e.g., the newly adopted
weird and wonderful instru-
ment which authorises the
Commonwealth Bank to pay
superannuation pensions.
Engrossed on semi-stiff paste-
board, the document requires
the bank to pay, say, Yeu Mee,
or order, the sum of ... Ah,
that’s where the conjuring
comes in. The money space
on the cheque is divided into
three sections. Suppose the
amount due is £34 18s. Bd.
Instead of a typewritten
“thirty-four,” the first section
contains the words “pounds—
tens —three” ; the second sec-
tion shows “units—four” ; the
third contains the shillings and
pence. Most impressive, though.
the effect is slightly spoiled by
theh translating all this into
£34 18s. Bd.
But that’s not all. Notwith-
standing the injunction, “Do
not fold, pin or perforate,” in
heavy type at the foot of the
cheque, this work of art is


punctured with shot-holes
which make it resemble a
pianola-roll which, if carefully
inserted in the roller-track and
soft-pedalled, rings out the
final chords of “Roll Out The
Barrel.”
Can you afford not to
adopt the system?—Y. Mee
(N.S.W.).
The Merits of Skill-at-arms
....“These new, unhappy lords,
Who fight by shuffling papers
And dare not carry their swords.”
G. K. Chesterton.
Chesterton wrote that pro-
phetically. Plutocrats and
bureaucrats were plentiful in
his time, but it is improbable
that he foresaw the cumulative
effects of the 1914-18 war,,
which killed-off the flower of
one generation.
When that war ended, the
natural phenomenon of any
world-revolution showed itself
—with pot boiling, the scum
rose to the top. The tragically
inept and inane League of
Nations, formed by the enthu-
siasm of President Wilson but
which his country refused to
join, spelt the end of the old
secret diplomacy, which had
worked so well in the 19th cen-
tury when trade prospered
and taxes were negligible, and
replaced it with open diplo-
macy (which led to World
War II and then blossomed
into the United Nations).
This second boiling has
never ceased since 1945, with
the scum changing rapidly.
The culmination of all this
“ Stiddy , boay , stiddy! I Want to reach ’ome
in wan piece!”
seems to have been the Suez
crisis.
What made for peace in the
world last century? It was
secret diplomacy (worked by
ambassadors who were in a
position to represent their Sov-
ereigns, and cost their countries
less than is now paid to a com-
pany accountant), plus the rule
of the R.N. and British Regular
Army (backed by the old Indian
Army). In those days “gun-
boat diplomacy” was not a
term of reproach, but a
humane and economic way of
keeping the world’s peace. The
Americans have a similar idea
in their Marine Corps. Sound,
strategic appreciation (“Imper-
ial military geography”) was a
third. This has gone completely
overboard since the British
Empire has been given away
piecemeal au grand galop to
satisfy the whims of any
nationalist movement which
asks for “freedom” (which it
cannot itself defend). It is
noteworthy that now even
“intellectuals” are crying over
this spilt milk and pleading
that thisx tendency must be
stopped before it is too late.
All those are causes—but
not the basic cause. This was
an attitude of mind. Whatever
may have been the demerits of
education in the Victorian
days, especially in England, it
had one great merit —it bred
men and taught them how to
deal with the world as it stood
—not an airy Utopia. The
type of man it produced was
one who had grown up in the
remnants of the Renaissance
tradition —to be a complete
man. Perhaps he erred on the
side of field-sports, but he also
was trained to administer jus-
tice —to his juniors at school
and to those under his rule
later ; fair justice, perforce, for
otherwise it would not have
been accepted. He was also
trained to “play the game”
(this later became another
intellectual sneer-word, but it
meant something to the world
when it was the motive of an
Empire’s action).
As a man of action he had
a healthy dislike for “swots.”
When war-weariness (and
heavy casualty-lists) brought
the “swots” into power they
made the most of their oppor-
tunity to work-off the inferior-
ity-complex that had haunted
them since their school-days.
The result of this growth of
intellectuals, “angry men” of
all ages and their like, is the
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 489
Across
I—Tennis-player1—Tennis-player with dairying equipment when I am among
friends. (5)
4 and 9 —The tax-commissioner doesn’t get such greet-
ings. (4, 5,7)
10 —Fuel den arranged in more necessitous circumstances. (7)
11 — Short coast no place for this
watersider. (12)
13 — Speeding fellow with a halo
about a monarch. (9)
14— A little bay chap. (4)
17 — American beau in the little Old
English wind. (4)
18— French capital not enough for
this horse-rug. (9)
23 —Going too far with some bowl-
ing—not without barracking. (12)
25 — One to butter a first-class century
tongue of the holy lands. (7)
26 Like a spot? (3-4)
27 Shingles apostrophised figures. (9)
28— Restrictedly Australian fuel
epics. (5)
Down
1 — Word of this is the part
of the old man. (6)
2 Way of sounding not out of some
country. (10)
3 Emphasised courses sent up. (8)
4 Wrongly construed the fog duck,
with approval. (7)
5 Cloth which makes a little girl
eager. (7)
6 A four-legged scavenger family
has to hold Japanese dough. (6)
7 Upturned fortissimo blow. (4)
8 — Unsettled outcry became dis-
colored with age. (8)
12— Settling part of the alimentary
tract before I chant. (10)
15 — Agreement to become smaller. (8)
16— Coves Tim disguised as alien
bluebloods. (8)
19 — But he’s not a Frenchman from
Francia, (7)
20— Upset father conceals garden
pests. (7)-
21 — One by way of Novia Scotia
birds. (6)
22 — Concurs with grease in a new
composition. (6)
24—Pop to love panelling. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 488


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only CHEAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
m? mom safe;
*JitL
SANDER!
m
Correspondence. i n t o ices, - ’
•tatements* etc., filed in the
“Sanders ’* can be securely
Sound and converted into d
Perfect book of reference ad
end of each month —Df
1.
m
PritH And fuv»
ther Information
»(HMI application
®ny oth«r period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
A gem ft—
J*UOUIN| , . N«ra«» Bmi. Tty. Lt 4
*»ELAII>k . , , Varden Price Ltd.
***!« , DMk«t BMk Co. (AML)
IXL
This World Famous Brand il
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and P acker $
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING— INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
present state of the world. Not
for nothing was Karl Marx
their doyen.
It is for consideration
whether the time has not come
when this idea of skill-at-arms
should be taken again into the
Western outlook. Be sure that
our Communist enemies have
it —they wage war as it should
be waged, to change their
enemy’s mind and set about
doing this primarily as men-at-
arms, though helped (not hin-
dered) by their brainier col-
leagues. Has the idea yet per-
meated that although scientific
warfare sounds most fashion-
able it is still what comes out
of the barrel of the rifle that
matters, and that that comes
from a spirit that places skill-
at-arms above any intellectual
whimsies? Not yet; but it will
come, and then when brain
and brawn are united and
the - old spirit revived —the
West may start getting some-
where. Cut - and - Thrust
(S.A.)
King O’Malley
King O’Malley told me his
fight for the establishment of
the Commonwealth Bank (B.
7/5/’5B) succeeded because, in
the final analysis, one M.H.R.
from N. S. Wales was stone,
motherless broke.-
He said that 4t the inter-
state conference of the
Federal Labor Party in Bris-
bane in 1908, advocates of a
national bank, led by him,
had succeeded in having the
objective placed in the “fight-
ing platform” of the party.
Soon after Labor came to
power in 1910, Andrew Fisher
and W. M. Hughes opposed
O’Malley’s mov6s in caucus to
have the bank proposal imple-
mented. (“They didn’t know
anything about banking,
brother.”)
O’Malley then decided on
other tactics. He let it be
known that in view of the
opposition of the party-leaders
he would no longer force the
issue. But, with the help of
Dr. William Maloney (“the
little Doc.”), J. H. Catts and
others, he organised in secret.
As Jauncey says in his book
Australias Government Bank,
the “Torpedo Brigade” did not
intend, as some politicians
thought, to “blow-up the
Government” ; it was out to
convert the majority of caucus.
As each Labor member was
won over he was pledged to
secrecy. After 15 months’
organising an unofficial count
showed the O’Malleyites to be
just ope vote short.
King told me that he 1 then
directed his attention to a
N. S. Wales Labor member
who was chronically hard-up
—and at that time more so
than usual. He urgently needed
£3O. O’Malley offered to lend
him the money if the member
would change his mind about
the bank proposal and vote for
it in caucus. The deal was
clinched, and when the party
met on October 5, 1911, the
advocates of a national bank
won by one vote. —J. D.
Corbett (Vic.).
Welfare States and Compe-
tition
So far as overseas trade is
concerned, Australia and N.Z.
are in the same boat: they are
finding it increasingly difficult
to meet competition from
people who are prepared to
work an hour or two longer
and for smaller wages. That
such competitors should bother
themselves about the self-
imposed troubles of Welfare
States is too much to expect.
As the shadow of war recedes
so competition is certain to
grow, and each Dominion will
be forced' by hard economic
factors to fall more in line with
its fellows overseas, and do a
little more work rather than
expect such a lot from the
Government for little or noth-
ing. Too often trade is lost
through the foolishness of
some branches of labor. It was
the intransigence of wharfies
which led to the introduction
of bulk-loading and -handling
of sugar in Queensland. N.Z.’s
promising timber-trade is being
jeopardised through the
leisurely ways of the billhook
boys.
It is high time one hard fact
was noted: that our trade with
Asia will never amount to
much while the cost of our
products remains at the high
levels demanded by trade-union
exactions.
And severe import-cuts as a
remedial measure to counter-
balance the loss of export-
trade can be a dangerous
weapon. Not even the self-
sufficient U.S. can afford to
monkey too much with over-
seas trade, and neither New
Zealand nor Australia is any-
thing near self-sufficient in
anything but food. To fall out
of line with the rest of the
world of industry nowadays is
to ask for the worst dose of
a fiscal jalap: a trade-recession.
—Shellback (N.Z.).


PAOOf
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
WIRE NETTING
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
; * - —r- - -y ~ m
m^Z
W8S8&.
r.i f
** •?&"
,
-
k tiffin SVlSvi
■ •■ (■
ESTABLISHED 1884
BARBED WIRE
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
LYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT’S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Overdrilling Pastures
“Billjim”: Experience in
New Zealand suggests that
where overdrilling of crops
and pastures can be practised
it has much to commend it,
because it is a cheap, once-
over method of pasture-
improvement. Moreover, the
area is not out of production
longer than the time taken for
Tetanus occurs in all
animals. Sheep and
goats are more sus-
ceptible than cattle.
The disease is caused
by an organism found
in all soils and
especially in manure.
Lambs that are
marked and tailed by
Elastrator can be
expected to enjoy a
high degree of protec-
tion against tetanus.
The constriction by
the rubber of the
ring causes no wounds
and tetanus infection
is usually the result
of wounds coming
into contact with con-
taminated dust, soil
or manure.
the introduced species to
establish itself.
L. W. Blackmore, of the
Department of Agriculture,
who led the studies, says over-
drilling has extended the use-
fulness of oversowing practices
to include more difficult con-
ditions where broadcasting
hasn’t been successful.
The most pressing needs in
introducing clovers into newly
sown pastures are reinforcing
the clovers when initial estab-
lishment has been poor, and
reintroducing red-clover into
high-fertility dairy pasture.
In the first instance, August-
September is a suitable time to
overdrill an autumn-sown
pasture (the situation seldom
arises with a spring-sown pas-
ture). In the second case little
research-work has so far been
done. A practical difficulty is
that such pastures are usually
strip-grazed in spring, which is
the logical time to attempt re-
introduction. Some farmers
have included a pound of red-
clover with overdrilled short-
rotation rye-grass in autumn
and say that enough clover
survives to warrant the
practice.
Where chou moellier has
been cleanly fed-off and the
crop has been dense enough
to exclude weed growth,
Blackmore holds that pasture
mixtures can be drilled straight
into the stubble without prior
cultivation. A disk-drill is the
most suitable implement.
Although rape stubble can
be dealt with similarly, excel-
lent results are often obtained
by cleaning-off the stubble
with stock, surface-working to
create a fine tilth artd broad-
casting the seed. Sheep can
be used to trample the seed in.
But overdrilling is the solution
here if rape cannot be fed-off
hard enough, or time does not
permit cultivation. The
method, it must be remem-
bered, is only suitable for flat
or easy paddocks because
cross-drilling is essential. The
paddock needs to be drilled
one way with half the seed
and cross-drilled at an angle
of about 30 degrees with the
remainder.
Rates of seeding should be
determined on local experience,
as these vary greatly from dis-
trict to district. It has been
found, however, that 7-81 b. of
short-rotation rye-grass is
sufficient to restore fully a
pasture that has lost practically
its entire grass-fraction.
Under dry or near-dry con-
ditions an improved cover of
the soil can be obtained by
attaching harrows directly to
the drill. Under half-dry con-
ditions it is an advantage to
harrow some hours later, and
under moist conditions there
is no advantage in harrowing.
Eagles and Lambs
“Ceg v : A Melbourne dis-
cussion as to whether it is
necessary for graziers and
farmers to shoot all the eagles
they can lay their guns on has
brought some interesting
information to light. The
question was raised by some-
one, apparently a bird-lover,
after he had seen five fine,
large, and very dead eagles
strung out on a wire fence.
Eagles undoubtedly do a lot
of damage, especially at lamb-
ing time, but losses can be
cut if hillsides are never used
as lambing-paddocks. A hill-
side is the eagle’s ideal killing-
ground, as it can fly in and
strike with ease anything
moving on a hill from any
height.
It is otherwise on the flat,
as the birds avoid low flying
at all times. Stumps, logs, and
the like make an obstacle-race
between the eagle and the
lamb. Usually the lamb wins.
The .average percentage of
losses from eagles works-out
like this: flat, 5 per cent, or
less ; hillsides, 35 per cent. It
follows that the flatter the land
the better suited it is for lamb-
ing, with the loss from eagles
considerably reduced if not
entirely eliminated.
This information was sup-
plied by a man from his
personal experience and seems
well worth passing on.
Rabbit-repellent
Commenting on Dutch
reports on the possibility of
using a fat-impregnated string
as a rabbit-repellent, K. G.
Schoeffel, of Welch Perrin,
Melbourne, notes that “the
idea of using a few miles of
string instead of the conven-
tional wire-netting at £lO a
roll caused a lot of interest,
and a number of my friends
asked if I knew anything
about it”:
“The material used to im-
pregnate the string is bone-tar
oil. I got some samples from
Holland and passed them
over to one or two people,
including the C.5.1.R.0. Latest
reports are that, while it is
very effective as a repellent
against hares and red deer, its
use as a rabbit-repellent is


ROYAL JELLY
Direct from the bees. One month’s
supply in capsules £5/5/- airmail
post free; free leaflet.
BEX PEACOCK,
Apiarist, 21 Carbine Street.
KERANG, VICTORIA.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
... m
wsm
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
"Aw, it's a good life up north if you're prepared t' take
a few hard knocks."
open to" question. These
results seem to' be supported
by a paper by H. V. Thompson
and C. J. Armour, ‘Rabbit
Repellents for Fruit Trees,’
published in ‘Plant Pathology,’
Vol. 1. No. 1, March, 1952.
“Thompson and Armour
found that bone-tar oil was
only partially effective in pro-
tecting apple-root stocks from
rabbits and that it was inferior
to a resin-ethanol mixture.
“At present it seems un-
likely that repellents could
play a major part in rabbit-
control in Australia, but they
may have some possible use in
the protection of small areas
such as market gardens and
orchards.”
Hide Brands
“Croydon” :■ ,While scour-
able branding-fluids have
given a tremendous annual
saving to Australian wool-
growers, firebrands on cattle
are causing the loss o.f at least
£lOO,OOO a year to the nation.
Many owners spoil the most
valuable leather on the ribs
and rump, and others brand
both sides' of a 'beast. If
firebranding is necessary it
should be done on the neck,
cheek or shoulder of a beast.
Prune-drying
“Big Billy”: In some useful
advice on prune-drying trou-
bles, the S.A. Department of
Agriculture suggests that these
can often be traced to insuffi-
cient care irt dipping and hand-
ling—these procedures must be
“just right.”
Robe de Satgeafit and
d’Agen are the most suitable
for prune-production ; other
varieties of European plums
are generally unsuitable for
drying. Although dehydration
is becoming more important in
many districts, sun-drying is
still widely used in Australia.
Good-quality fruit is essen-
tial. With sun-drying the dry-
ing-ground should be clean and
well grassed to avoid dust
caused by traffic near the trays.
For best quality and flavor
fruit should be fully ripe before
harvesting, which is best done
by placing sheets under the
tree s —fruit-drop may be
assisted by a very light shak-
ing of the branches. Picking-
up should be frequent to avoid
deterioration. With the Robe
variety every two days is
recommended; d’Agen may
be left four or five days. These
Intervals should be halved if
the weather is unfavorable.
Drying can be hastened by
dipping the fruit in a near-boil-
ing solution of caustic—lib.
of caustic to 25-50 gals, of
water. Dipping produces a very
fine cracking of the skin and
should be just long enough to
cut the bloom off the fruit.
Robe does not need as long
or as strong a dip as d’Agen.
When spreading the trays of
fruit for drying see that the
tray-sides are in a north-south
position, so that the sun will
dry all the fruit equally. Tilt-
ing the southern ends of the
trays to the north will help in
rapid drying. In cool and
cloudy weather no prelfminary
precautions are necessary, but
in hot weather the trays should
be stacked until the fruit has
wilted, to avoid loss of juice
by “boiling” in hot sunshine.
With rain or heavy dew the
trays should be stacked.
When the fruit is about two-
thirds dry spread in a compact
layer, one fruit deep, on sheets
of Sisalkraft until drying is
complete. Each night fold one
side of the sheet over the other
to guard against moisture. This
also turns the fruit over and
ensures more even drying.
Never let the fruit dry-out to
such an extent that it becomes
hard. It is ready for sweating
when the flesh has become
tough and pliable and will not
exude juice when squeezed.
For sweating, the fruit is
placed in sweat-boxes under
cover for five or six weeks.
During this time the moisture-
content of the fruit evens-up
and the full prune flavor and
aroma develops. Pour the fruit
from one box to another to
redistribute the prunes every
few weeks. If no boxes are
available the prunes may be
sweated in clean wheatbags,
but the bags must not be
stacked more than three-deep
when placed on their sides.
Mould on the trays—a pro-
blem in unfavorable drying
weather —can be best dealt with
by thorough scrubbing each
year before use and dipping in
a sterilising solution.
Too Much Too Often
“Brander”: Many land-
holders are using more than
the scientists’ recommenda-
tions for seed-mixtures and
fertilisers on the assumption
that proportional benefits will
follow their generosity.
Although extra superphos-
phate seldom does much harm
—even though its application
may be uneconomic according
to the law of diminishing
returns —there is a danger of
some chemicals doing more
harm than good.
For instance, although only
4oz. of molybdenum to the
acre does wonders to deficient
country, more than that, or
even the same amount every
year instead of longer periods,
can cause copper-deficiency
with its attendant wasting of
sheep and steeliness of wool.
Although some soils need
boron, too much of it can
cause chlorosis to plants.
The same applies with seed.
Although 81b. to 121 b. to the
acre of lucerne seed is the right
amount on irrigated flats, as
little as 41b. can be too much
and choke itself out in drier
areas where moisture is the
limiting factor.
Even when the heavier
seeding establishes itself, the
greater number of small plants
do not produce any more feed
than the smaller number of
larger plants from the recom-
mended seeding-rates.
Cereals are tolerant to a
fairly wide range of seeding-
rates, but even they can
become heavy, as is often seen
in the poorer growth in head-
lands where combine widths
overlap.
New Brooms
“Illabrook”: One of the
apparent mysteries of Aus-
tralian breeding-programmes,
both plant and animal, is that
while great promise is shown


PEARL
ASSURANCE
company ijnrra
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
by new varieties or families in
the early stages, deterioration
seems to follow.
The situation is largely a
matter of management. In th,e
animal world, culling is not
severe enough to maintain
standards in many cases. The
first generation or-two after an
imported bull comes to Aus-
tralia certainly justify the
purchase, but disappointments
sometimes follow when poor-
quality descendants are sold
for high prices because of the
family name—often heavily
emblazoned with “imp.”—
instead of being acquired for
what they are really worth.
Many should never be offered
for sale.
This position is paralleled
among plants when a new
variety is sown for the first
time. The farmer gives it his
very best patch of soil,
specially worked-up, and the
newcomer responds by giving
a yield which more than
justifies the premium paid for
it. It easily outyields its pre-
decessor, which by now is
struggling under normal
management and probably
with less super, than the
favored newcomer.
But after a few years the
new wheat has not only lost
any preferential treatment, but
is also fouled by other
varieties and weeds. By this
time the owner often con-
vinces himself that the old
variety was just as good any-
way and that he has wasted his
money buying pedigreed seed.
He would do far better to
admit that a new purchase of
clean seed, and probably
better farming standards,
would soon show that the
"That's queer—We must've overwound 'im !”
latest variety always has better
characteristics than those
which have gone before it.
Beef Transport
“Noojee”: Dr. Hammond,
noted animal - nutrition
authority, put his finger right
on to one of Australia’s big
problems when he pointed to
the need for better transport of
beef-Cattle from the outback to
coastal markets.
All the same, 'there’s more to
solving the problem than just
extending existing railroads
further west from the Queens-
land coast and joining them up.
The channel country might
be tame enough for several
seasons, but the odd flood could
wreck railways within hours.
Structures big enough to with-
stand floods would be too
costly.
There is still a lot to be
said for bringing the cattle
south to be finished, rather
than getting them into saleable-
condition in the Centre and
watching them lose their value
on the way to market, but the
whole question needs to be
gone into very thoroughly, as
a matter of national necessity.
Turnip-grazing
“Big Billy”: A popular
misconception is that turnips
cannot be grazed. They can,
and dairy-cattle do very well
on them.
The grazing is most efficient
when an electric fence is used
to ration the crop, since the
cows first eat the leaf and then
pull the roots out of the soil.
Taint may be avoided by
feeding the turnips twice a day
immediately after milking. A
fence permitting the grazing of
a long narrow strip, say, 2yds.
wide, also reduces losses from
trampling these can be as
high as 50 per cent of the
crop.
Grey Spot
“Hotfut”: Grey spot of
oats is yet another disease
which has been cured by a
trace-mineral. This time it
was manganese which turned
sickly crops into healthy
swards and increased yields
from 25 bushels an acre to 32
in recent tests on South Aus-
tralia’s Eyre Peninsula.
This result was obtained
from 141 b. of manganese-
sulphate added to 801 b. of
super, to the acre. Double the
amount of manganese pro-
duced even more oats, but
made little difference to the
net profit.
Although not common,
manganese - deficiency occurs
on some alkaline soils. On
Eyre Peninsula, according to
D. W. Puckridge, of the S.A.
Department of Agriculture, it
is mostly on shallow soils con-
taining much free limestone,
and on the tops of grey sandy
rises.
There is a patch of
manganese-deficient soil near
Mt. Gambier, and several
other isolated localities, includ-
ing parts of Melbourne. No
‘ other trace-mineral deficiencies
are common in Australia’s
wheat area, except lack of zinc
on Wimmera black soils and,
it is suspected, in parts of the
Maliee.
Sheep Sleep
“Mane”: Few animals,
including humans, must be less
oblivious to outside influences
when asleep than sheep, which,
as many of us have found, can
often 'be approached quite
easily when in slumber.
Several years ago a scientist
declared that swearing and
general noise around the yards
made no difference whatever to
a sheep’s demeanor or produc-
tion. In England, Dr. Joan
Munro has found that even an
alarm-clock will not rouse a
sleeping sheep.
Neither will delicacies such
as linseed-cake, which no
conscious sheep will allow to
pass unnoticed.
Storing Pumpkins
“Myall”: When pumpkins
are store'd properly they will
keep in excellent condition for
a long time, enabling the
grower .to take advantage of
high prices ruling during
August and September. Care-
less storing causes many losses
within a few weeks.
Gather the crop when it is
mature, being careful not to
damage the fruit in any way,
and store it in an airy shed.
First essential is to select only
mature fruit. To test then),
try to pierce the skin with the
thumb-nail, and if this is easily
done put them aside for
immediate use. Do not include
any “green” fruit, as they will
soorf rot and affect the others.
Discard any fruit that hasn’t
a small portion of the stalk
attached; otherwise rot will
soon set 'in and may cause
considerable damage. Always
handle pumpkins intended for


WOLSELEY 6/90
SALOON
Latest model, with automatic
drive, as new condition, for sale
well below list price. This has
been our Managing Director’s
company car, and is faultless in
every way.
PETER LLOYD
LIMITED,
Wolseley Distributors,
213-217 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
MA 6357
GYPROCK for better
seamless walls
The finest surface for walls and ceilings for a timber-
framed or brick veneer home, for offices and factories,
is Gyprock—the easy-to-handle plaster wallboard that
goes up fast and clean.
Gyprock is available in a wide range of large
economical sheets. The new 4ft. 6in. width covers a
9 ft. high wall with two sheets laid horizontally.
Why not use the best for your building project?
Just contact your nearest C.S.R. Showroom. They’ll
be pleased to give you full advice and costs of
supplying and fixing Gyprock.
c
GYPROCK
PLASTER WALLBOARD
Manufactur'd by CONCORD PLASTER MILLS
Market'd by THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Building Materials Division
Showrooms at Sydney, Newcastle, Wagga, Wollongong, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Townsville, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
CSR7I
storage very carefully cuts
and bruises allow infection to
enter.
Pumpkins keep best when
placed on a low platform made
from stout battens set widely
apart, so that an abundance
of air can circulate among
them. They should be in-
spected from time to time and
any with signs of rot should
be removed.
Dumping pumpkins in
heaps in a barn is uneco-
nomical, as it is impossible to
inspect them without causing
bruising or other damage.
Tyre-care
“Windy”: It costs over £5O
to refit the farm-truck with
tyres, and that’s money in any-
one's language.
Cracked walls, leaking
valves, and punctures from
tacks or pieces of wire can
be largely avoided if a little
time is spent each week on the
lyres. Pump tyres to the
correct pressure. This varies
with different kinds of trucks.
Back-tyres need more air than
those on the front. They’ll need
more air still if the truck is
heavily loaded. The instructjon-
book supplied with the truck
will tell what pressure to use ;
if you’ve lost it ask the chap
at the garage. Use a pressure-
gauge to check the tyres—it
saves guesswork
Check tyre-pressures once a
week, and before any long trip.
With insufficient pressure a tyre
will bulge outward under a
heavy load. This causes the
wall to crack. Cracked walls
mean new tyres and possibly
new tubes.
Weekly checking often
reveals small pieces of glass,
wire, nails and other objects.
These can be removed before
they work through the tread
and puncture the tube. Small
sharp objects like these are the
cause of most “slow” leaks.
Tyre-pressure will build-up
during a long run, particularly
in hot weather. If the pressure
is 261 b. at the beginning of the
trip, it could be 341 b. or more
at the end. Don’t let any of
the air out of the tube when
this pressure builds-up. Once
the rubber cools again, the read-
ing will fall back to 261 b., pro-
vided none of the air has leaked
out. If the tyre is partly
deflated when it is hot, it will
be below the correct pressure
when it is cold. This will allow
the walls to crack and bulge
under a load. Rather than
tamper with the air-pressure
when on a long journey, stop
for a while and allow the tyres
and engine to cool.
Tyre-wear can be reduced
by rotating the wheels as the
tyres wear. Usual procedure is
to rotate the near-front wheel
to the off-back v/heel, and so
on. This equalises wear on the
rubber.
Provided the walls are in
good order and the tread hasn t
been staked or badly punctured,
tyres will stand a retread when
the rubber wears down. It is
better to have this done while
there is still some tread left.
If the canvas is showing
through the rubber, small
particles of grit and sand will
work in. It is very difficult
to get a good “take” with the
new rubber when this grit is in
the threads.
A last point: make sure the
valves are fitted with dust-caps.
They cost only a few pence
each and are worth their weight
in gold. They keep out dust
and water which work under
the valve seat and cause slow
leaks and consequent tyre-wear.
Farm Hints
“Billjim”: Clover-seeds have
helped many S.A. stockowners
to overcome feed-shortages this
year. Seeds of barrel- and
sub.-clovers have kept sheep
in good condition, even though
paddocks have been otherwise
bare of feed. The seeds are
high in protein and are relished
by animals. Care must be
taken to see that paddocks are
not overgrazed as this affects
the density of pasture in the
following season.
“C.A.A.”: Use of zinc- and
copper-sulphate has increased
yields by 100 per cent, on sandy
and black soils of S.A.'s south-
east. However, a common fault
is that the treatment is not
persisted with and both
chemicals are not always used
together. For optimum results
pasture should be treated with
71b. of zinc-sulphate and 71b.
of copper-sulphate every five
years.
“Bill C.”: It's all right to
lend an important farm-imple-
ment to a less-prosperous
neighbor, but watch out for
weed-pests coming back with it.
Nut-grass, for instance, is
spread from farm to farm in
the soil clinging to implements.
Before putting the returned
implement to use on your own
place, give it a good wash-
down.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(22/5/'5B)
Queensland should have general rains during June hut,
apart from reasonably good rains on the south coast during
July, light to moderate patchy rains should follow during
spring.
General rains should occur in the whole of N.S.W.
during June, heaviest in the southern half of the State,
Moderate to good general rains should continue in July but,
apart from the southern and part of the central divisions,
rainfall may be patchy during spring.
Good general rains should occur in Victoria during
June, with flooding in the rivers in the northern division
and South Gippsland. Good rains should continue in July,
and there could be serious flooding in the Wimmera and
rivers in the northern division.
General rains are indicated in South Australia during
June, heaviest in the Stirling Ranges and south-east. Good
rain should continue in the agricultural areas until October.
Western Australia should receive general rains, mainly
above normal, during June, and heavy rains are likely on
the coast between Perth and Bunbury. Rainfall should be
patchy in the agricultural areas during July.
LENNOX WALKER.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
Although winter is officially here,
Sydney’s “hottest autumn on record”
lingers on and everyone is happy about
it except the retailers. Most of these
exhort us to “beat the cold,” to “snuggle
into these cosy blankets,” and so on, but
it is hard to convince people who are
basking in soft sunshine. One store
frankly admits that the Indian summer
caught them napping, and another pre-
dicts an early summer. Perhaps we will
skip the winters altogether in future. But
then, dearie me, what would happen to
the wool!
* ☆ *
The knitting-season seems to be well
established, however, bringing with it the
icy glares of men standing in smoking-
compartments while women, seated, go
clickety-click with the needles. Some
men absolutely hate knitters. The jigging
fingers and elbows, the insistent industry
and the implication that conversation is
not enough makes them feel that the lady
lacks serenity—a point of view which is
definitely not a “view mat.”
☆ -fr ☆
Old Boys of “Shore” flocked in from
all States and from the most remote
corners of N. S. Wales to be present at
the 0.8. U. Ball, held at the Trocadero
on Friday. Definitely the most success-
ful function of the week.
The record attendance (1430) was a
great compliment to Mr. L. C. Robson,
who has been headmaster of Shore since
1923 and who retires this year. Mrs.
Robson was in charge of the ladies’ com-
mittee, which decorated the hall with the
well-known “boaters,” the diagonal
stripes and the blue-and-white colors of
the school. Souvenir-programmes with
caricatures of school-life had been
designed by John Eldershaw, whose
father, Mr. Pat Eldershaw, is one of the
best-known masters of the school.
The official guests were received by
Mr. R. A. Swift, president of the 0.8. U.,
with Mrs. Swift, who wore a short
sheath-dress of cream guipure-lace. Dr.
Alistair Robson, who is the son of Mr.
and Mrs. L. C. Robson, and who recently
returned from England, was among those
present, also well-known cricketer Ted
White, whose father, A. B. S. White,
appeared in one of the huge photos of
early school-teams which adorned the
foyer. Mr. Clem Tiley, formerly acting-
headmaster and a past-president of the
0.8. U., was present with Mrs. Tiley.
* rv *
“Christening the piano” (though it was
not done by smashing a bottle of cham-
pagne on its lid) was the occasion for a
full-to-overflowing gathering of the
Forum Club’s music circle. The money
for this lovely baby-grand was raised by
club-members in the past 12 months, and
the first concert was given by pianist
Dorothy White and baritone Graham
Laver. Guest-of-honor Miss Dorothy
Helmrich spoke on the work of the Arts
Council, and the guests were welcomed
by president Mrs. Elsie Seloss. Among
those at this pleasant assembly were
Mrs. L. P. R. Bean, Mrs. Ken Guest,
Mrs. Jacombe, Mrs. F. Cable, Mrs. G.
Lee, Mrs. George Bardsley, Mrs. Keith
Morris and Miss Flo Buswell.
Mrs. Douglas Candy, wife of Air Vice-
Marshal Candy, Officer Commanding
R.A.A.F. Home Command, is a vice-
president of the committee organising the
Mater Hospital Ball to be held at the
Trocadero on Wednesday, June II.
Guests-of-honor at the ball will be the
Governor, Sir Eric Woodward, and Lady
Woodward. Photo by Norton Trevaire.
A birthday-cake eight feet high
(including the tower), decorated with
scenes of Australian history, weighing
4001 b. and costing £4OO was made by
David Jones’s pastrycooks as part of the
celebrations to mark the company's 120th
birthday and the 80th of the chairman of
directors, Sir Charles Lloyd Jones. The
party was attended by 650 guests, all lead-
ing citizens, Australia's chief leading
citizen, Mr. R. G. Menzies, making a
polished speech of congratulation to the
firm and to Sir Charles, who, he reminded
us, had known personally every Prime
Minister in the Commonwealth —a fact
which, he added, argued a fine degree of
tolerance. Members of the Eastern
Command Band played Sir Charles’s
favorite tune as the official party entered
the dining-room. It was “Cornin’
Through the Rye.” The guests were
served a five-course dinner, but the cake
was reserved for the staff, all of whom
received a piece on the following Friday.
* tv k
Kathleen McCormack, the sweet singer
of soft Irish and Scottish songs, was the
featured artist at the Aisling's concert on
Friday, held at the Lyceum Club. Kath-
leen, though brought-up in Australia since
the of 10, was born in Longford
(Eire) and has the true Irish warmth and
feeling in her voice. However, she says
she is even more interested in acting than
in singing, and has already been favor-
ably noticed for her performance in the
name-role in “Bonaventure” at the Pocket
Playhouse.. Her next theatrical venture
is to be a production of a new play by
John O’Grady (who wrote “They’re a
Weird Mob”). The play is “The Unstrung
Bow.’’
☆ ☆ ☆
So great has been the appeal of the
New York Ballet's presentation of “Swan
Lake” it has been decided to continue
this programme till June 11. New
choreography makes it interesting, and
the costumes and decor by Cecil Beaton
are romantic and charming. The com-
pany’s interpretation of “Afternoon of
a Faun” is also thought-provoking.
Instead of the Pan-like creature in the
woods, this little faun is a ballet-dancer
in a practice-studio, and the creature of
his imagination another dancer. This also
is being carried on for an extra week.
Among regular first-nighters at the
ballet were many members of the Eliza-
bethan Ball Committee, which met the
next morning to discuss plans for the
ball, which is to be held at the Troca-
dero on September 13. They included
Mrs. J. K. Schartl (who saw the ballet
with Mrs. J. I. Carroll), Mrs. Bruce
McFarlan and Mrs. Dot Ball. Miss
Phyllis Shillito, who is in charge of
the decor, suggested a theme of Eliza-
bethan jesters, crests, heraldic-symbols
and regality, so it should be rich and
colorful. New members of the ball com-
mittee include Mrs. Lionel McFadyen and
Mrs. Roger Dunlop.
☆ ☆ ☆
The 11th annual general-meeting of
the War Widows’ Guild of Australia
w'ent off during the week with its usual
efficiency and slick timing. Held at Anzac
House, with State president Mrs. L. L.
Watkins opening the proceedings and
Lieut.-General R. G. Pollard in the chair,
it heard from 17 speakers and yet left
time for afternoon-tea at a reasonable
hour. The Governor and Lady Woodward
were guests-of-honor, and Mrs. G. A.
Vasey, Federal president, -guest-speaker.
Mrs. Vasey touched on some interesting
points brought up at the recent Family
Organisation Conference she attended in
Rome. One was embodied in the recom-
mendation that it was essential that
widows should not be separated from
their young children, but that it was
equally necessary that they should go out
to work as soon as the children went
to school, thus providing the children
with new contacts with the life of the
community.


MELBOURNE
The Governor and Lady Brooks had
morning-tea at the Australian-American
Association Centre to meet artists (and
their wives) who have donated paintings
to be sold for the Anti-Cancer Cam-
paign. Hostesses were Dame Mary Daly
(who arranged the exhibition) and Mrs.
W. L. Kilpatrick (her husband is chair-
man of the campaign). Her Excellency
chose a hyacinth-blue tweed suit and
matching melusine beret. Dame Mary
wore a fitted black wool coat and forest-
green off-the-face hat. A cinnamon-
brown frock, loose jacket and pale cafe-
au-lait hat banded in cinnamon com-
prised Mrs. Kilpatrick’s ensemble. Mr.
and Mrs. Alan Bernaldo, Mr. and Mrs.
John Rowell, Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Buck-
master, Mr. and Mrs. Dudley Drew,
Esther and Betty Paterson, Phyl Water-
house, Aileen Dent, Charles Bush and
Mr. R. Malcolm Warner represented the
art world. During the morning it was
announced that Mr. and Mrs. W. H.
Murphy had donated £3OO to the
campaign.
The card-afternoon at the Town Hall,
organised by the Lady Mayoress (Mrs.
F- W. Thomas), to assist the Anti-Cancer
Campaign, drew 1150 women and netted
£2750. Mrs. Thomas wore a dark-grey
tweed suit with a mink collar highlighting
the loose jacket, and an angora cloche
hat in a paler shade of grey. Official
guests included Mrs. Henry Bolte (in
navy frock-and-jacket ensemble), Mrs.
Sidney Baillieu Myer (she is chairman
of the women’s group of the campaign),
Mrs. W. J. Kilpatrick and her daughter
Roslyn, Miss K. A. Syme, Mrs. Graham
Hall (wife of the U.S. Consul-General),
and Dame Mary Daly, whose own mon-
ster card-party at the Town Hall is to
be held on June 26.
Those who gave solid help to make
the afternoon a success included Mrs.
John Inkster and members of the Ethel
Nilsen Day Nursery committee, who
stocked and served at the cake-stall in
the foyer ; Lady Connelly and Mrs. L.
Reichstein, who were in charge of lucky
envelopes; Mrs. Z. Economou, who
raised £544 from the sale of souvenir-
programmes ; Mrs. John Buchan, who
arranged for the sale of sweets and
cigarettes ; and Mrs. R. E. F. Smith, who
defrayed the expenses by raising £204
at a luncheon-party.
☆ ☆ ☆
Noted in the capacity-audience for
the opening recital given at the Town
Hall by Russian violinist David
Oistrakh: Sir Frank and Lady Tait, who
Were accompanied by their two daugh-
ters Isla and Anne (both attractive in
scarlet velvet coats), and Robert Help-
mann ; Mrs. Harry Scott, her son Alan
and his wife; Mrs. Tom Mitchell and
her daughter-in-law, Mrs. John Mitchell;
Margaret Gunnerson (who wore a white
gold-beaded evening sweater with a short
full brilliant-red quilted-satin skirt); Mrs.
John Rountree (her short sheath-frock
°f white and silver lame worn under a
ted velvet theatre-coat); Mr. apd Mrs.
Eric Walquist; Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Galbally ; Mr. and Mrs. Ewart Chappie ;
Professor Kathleen Fitzgerald, and Mrs.
Rosa Ribush,
☆ ☆ ☆
At a cocktail-party held at the univer-
sity, Mrs. James Alston, president of the
Robin Hood committee, handed to Mr.
Frank Byrne, president of the Helping
Hand Association for mentally retarded
children, a cheque for £l2OO. Among the
200 guests were the Lord Mayor (Cr,
F. W. Thomas), U.S. Consul W. Bush-
waller, and Mrs. Bushwaller, U.S. Vice-
Consul Carleton Brower and his wife,
Dr. E. Cunningham Dax and Mrs. Dax,
National Gallery director Eric Westbrook
and Mrs. Westbrook, and Mr. and Mrs.
Gray Woods. In four years the Robin
Hood committee has raised £4150 for
mentally retarded children.
Mrs. Dorothy Gitsham is a prime
example of how a woman, with drive,
determination and planning, can carve-
out a successful career. After having
practised her profession of nursing for
some years she married a former officer
who had been invalided out of the Army.
With slender resources they went into the
clothing-manufacturing business and
made a success of it. After her husband
died Dorothy ran the business single-
handed. Today she is one of the city’s
top designers, and as well as running the
factory she operates an exclusive bou-
tique in the city.
Mrs. Dorothy Gitsham gave a showing
of her collection of the coming season's
styles at her charming Toorak apartment,
which overlooks the. river and park at
Heyington. All the new lines were
featured —the “baby doll,” the “trapeze,”
the “barrel” and the “hoop.”
The theatre-coats were eye-catching,
mostly cut on the St. Laurent “trapeze”
line, with the wide hem flaring out from
the armpits below a narrow shoulder-
line. They were finished with high-cut
Peter Pan collars or collars which stood
away from the neckline. The “barrel”
line was seen in a black afternoon-frock,
the fullness of the skirt drawn into a
barrel-band just above the knees and
finished with a French rose at the centre-
front. The “baby doll” line, a wide sil-
houette flaring out from high above the
waist and finishing an inch below the
knees, is not everybody’s cup of tea ; but
it looked good on the mannequin and
was made in burnt-orange silk-organza,
coin-spotted in white, and with a sash
draped high at the bustline.
One of the hits was a sheath-frock in
black elasticised lurex. This dress fitted
tightly but there were no side- or front-
fastenings—it just stretched as it was
pulled on. Lovely cottons from Switzer-
land, shantungs, silk-taffetas and lace
were also used extensively. A lovely
ensemble was a sheath-frock worn under
a wide tent-coat of matching silk-finished
cotton splashed with a brilliant rose-and-
leaf design. The deep, stand-away collar
was finished with a wide, flat bow.
Another attractive outfit was a slim white
lace frock, cut sheath-like at the front,
while a loose panel in the back of the
bodice gave it the effect of a cape. It
was cut high to the neck, Chinese-collar
fashion.
CANBERRA
South Africa’s Union Day was cele-
brated at two late-afternoon receptions
given by the High Commissioner and
Mrs. A. M. Hamilton at the new Resi-
dence, South Africa House. A large
number of guests attended both parties
and included diplomats, Cabinet Ministers
and senior departmental officials.
The reception-rooms were decorated
with colorful arrangements of poinsettia.
Mrs. Hamilton, who received the guests
with her husband, chose an elegant cock-
tail-frock in black silk-velvet featuring a
full skirt with draped hemline and worn-
with plastic silver-trimmed shoes. The
Prime Minister and Dame Pattie Menzies
attended one party, also the High Com-
missioner for U.K. and Lady Carrington ;
the Minister for Israel, Mr. M. Nurock
(who has been having a busy round of
farewell-parties in Canberra); the Jap-
anese Ambassador and Mrs. T. Suzuki;
the High Commissioner for India and
Shrimati Menon ; the High Commissioner
for Malaya and Mrs. Gunn Lay Teik ;
the High Commissioner for Canada and
Mrs. T. W. L. Mac Dermot; Air-Commo-
dore and Mrs. F. Lukis ; Mr. and Mrs.
John Howse ; Major-General and Mrs. J.
Wilton and Flight-Lieutenant and Mrs. I.
Sutherland, up from Melbourne for the
parties (she is the daughter of the former
.South African High Commissioner, Mr.
J. K. Uys).
☆ ☆ ☆
A huge log-fire gave a warming atmo-
sphere to the lounge of the Hotel Civic
for the Canberra Orchestral Society’s
Sunday-evening musicale. The programme
included works by Mozart, Debussy,
Handel and Beethoven. A quartet for
tubas was an interesting and unusual
item.


Concerning a Country-party Leader —and Others
Laughter in the Sun
By ERIC BEDFORD
Between his dashes in
search of the absolute,
Randolph Bedford would
leave the button-grass
country of Tasmania, the great
kauri forests of the Westralian
south-west, or the dry tracks of
north-west Queensland, to con-
gregate with his fellow story-
tellers in Brisbane. When the
frangipani burgeoned and the
bougainvillaea burned around
Brisbane, Randolph could be
found talking to “Jimmy”
(Chief Justice Sir James) Blair,
“Artie” Fadden and immacu-
late Ted Baynes, Taxing
Master of the Supreme Court.
Randolph’s political beliefs
were more Bedfordian than
Socialist, which meant they
were more pro-Australian than
anything else. So long as his
political opponents were pro-
Australian he could forgive
them being anti-Socialist. This
meant that “Artie” (now Sir
Arthur) Fadden, Common-
wealth Treasurer, was his
bosom companion, because
“Artie” has a keen sense of the
ridiculous and is in the fore-
front of raconteurs. His imita-
tions of laughing or sorrowful
Italian cane-farmers are drawn
with perfect gesture and vocal
effects.
One day in Albert Square,
Brisbane, Artie was telling
some stories in broken English,
and a few unknown and unin-
vited guests were listening on
the edge of the footpath.
“Who’s the bloke talking?”
asked one.
“Oh, that’s Arthur Fadden,
the Commonwealth Treasurer.”
The questioner looked with
distrust upon his informant.
“So’s yer ole man! ” he
snorted. “The Common-
wealth Treasurer ain’t a wop!”
Randolph and Artie would
have arguments at great length
on Commonwealth finance.
Randolph had charted his own
Commonwealth Bank motion
through the shoals of the
Queensland Parliament; Ran-
dolph believed that the
unearned increment of banking
and insurance should belong
to the people ; Artie believed
that the making of profits
from investment in banking,
insurance, or any other invest-
ment, was the inalienable right
of everyone. They would have
their political arguments, but
soon get back to the way of
the raconteur and laughter.
And as their voices and
laughter rose they would act
as the lodestone to the happi-
ness-seeking metal of those
around them.
There was the occasion
when a lounge-lizard type of
go-getter had buttonholed
Randolph to try to interest
him in a project which
was probably imaginary, but
required money. “Ah, here’s
the man arriving now who will
be just the man for you,” said
Bedford. “Meet Sir James
Blair, the Chief Justice.” The
lounge-lizard departed.
“Who was he, Randolph?”
asked Blair.
“I don’t know, but his weak
face suggested that he might
have been a nodding acquaint-
ance of yours ; that is, nodding
from the dock to the Bench.”
There’s the story told of
Taxing Master Ted Baynes,
complete with impeccable
beard, gold-topped walking-
stick and pipe (of course, he
had a suit-to-taste on, also)
leaping into a non-smoking
compartment of a tram about
to start at Coorparoo, a
Brisbane suburb.
“No smoking here,” says the
conductor.
“I m not smoking.”
“You’ve your pipe in your
hand -”
“I also have my walking-
stick in my hand and I’m not
walking.
.. L . aterhe f . co "'luctor popped
his head in the door again, and
with a wide grin touched Ted
Baynes on the knee and said:
“That’s all right, Pop.”
Ted looked at the conductor
in a puzzled fashion, then
shook his head and replied: “I
don’t remember meeting your
mother.”
E. G. Theodore was an
unusually peculiar mixture of
a power-hungry, physically full-
lipped and psychologically
tight-lipped, heavy forward in
the ruck of life. He was deter-
mined on power-success, sub-
jugated any inclination to
“mix,” but had plenty of a
sardonic type of humor. After
he was defeated by Dr. Nott
for Herbert, North Queensland,
a bloke commiserated with
him outside the Hotel Carlton,
Brisbane. Theodore’s stocks
were low with the electors.
“Sorry to hear of your
defeat, Ted,” said the bloke,
who wanted to separate
Theodore from some of his
coin. “It was a pretty raw
deal on you.” Then, after a
long pause: “How about a
fiver?”
Theodore, no mean actor,
looked with feigned affection
upon the man: “That’s very
good of you,” he said, “but I’ll
get through somehow.”
Theodore was a hard but
interesting piece of humanity.
I had plenty of time to study
the man, because I taught him
to play chess. Curiously
enough, he would never be
anything more! than a very poor
chess-player, even though he
possessed that cold brilliance
in financial and political
affairs. He had that other facet
to his character which showed
him to be naive in many
matters connected with human
relationships.
I think I got closer to him
than most, and even then I was
at a distance, with only the
whisky-bottle and the chess-set
between us.
At the time he lived at Kirri-
billi (Sydney), and his daughter
had a ferocious dog which had
bitten old ladies, policemen,
etc., and was kept in the house.
One chess-night as I was let
in by the front-door the large
red-setter dashed down the
stairs and, after a preliminary
skirmish, attached his teeth to
my buttocks.
Later Theodore was apply-
ing iodine to the affected part
(it being in a position too far
south for me to do my own
doctoring). He said, with his
grim humor, which followed
my colorful language that had
echoed through the house:
“Anyway, Eric, it was a red
setter! ”
I am happy to say that the
dog went where he would bite
no more tail-enders.
Theodore read a great deal,
but I think he always read to
know rather than to enjoy. He
could not understand my writ-
ing plays which were never
produced and after completion


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GBOKOE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, G. GORDON RUSSELL, A. MURRAY JONES,
HUGH DIXSON.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
iniquity of a sham truthful-
ness better forgotten. I knew
that, as a species of gratuity,
he was offering what little of
himself there was to offer out-
side the common-room —his
hobby, the scrupulous cellar,
his fear and astuteness; the
secret warehouse. He had
nothing else to offer except
one more thing. I was not to
enter that house again. We
never drank together again
though we worked side by side
for two more years. The next
day we were as we had always
been; he had tipped me —
what more was necessary?,
TLTis final offering, as we got
drunker pretending to dis-
tinguish brew from brew, was
not merely flabbergasting as a
revelation of what cowered in
his heart but doubly flabber-
gasting as a lightning-sprint
through the past and the heart
of one I considered an opposite
sort of man.
It was late. I had no watch.
The Vulliamy had stopped at
twenty-five past three . . .
day? night . . . ? long before
the war. Nevertheless I felt
midnight, the page of day
about to falter over.
“Music,” he said. “Do you
like music?”
Good God, I thought, at this
hour, no, but “Yes,” I said.
“Truly?” He seemed smaller
and anxious.
“Oh, yes,” I said, almost
intensely, gushingly.
He left the room.
I listened to his goat-light
footsteps, wondering what he
would bring back. Musical-
box, glockenspiel or zither
seemed the few fitting instru-
ments for this rum but real
situation.
He re-entered with a violin.
“The mater’s,” he said.
“Glorious instrument, flawless
tone. The mater played ex-
quisitely. She taught me. I’ll
play her favorite piece.”
Arranging himself, he lifted
the bow. Perhaps he played
well; I am no judge. What
he played was shamefully
sentimental—“Chante Hindu”
or “Invitation to the Waltz” —
a kindred piece, yearning and
retching,
Prepared to endure the
fatigue of presenting an alert,
absorbed expression, I found
there was no need. He was
not playing just for m
haps not even for me He
played towards one of the
many photographs in tarnished
electroplated frames on the
chimney-piece. A woman—the
mater? postured soulfully
under much artistically-
arranged hair. She nursed a
violin. The same violin?
As he reached , ast bars
he , urned t 0 me b was com _
j , , . , • .
grains, rrnging wt, tr^
pattern of things broke like a
necklace, its beads running
wildly in all directions into
dark, into the wings, away,
Two rolled into the spotlight
to stop side by side, dead-
centre, dramatically lit. With
a shock I felt the weight of
Chums on my knees, saw the
ice-bewitched Cape Horner,
heard my cousins and brothers
spluttering with laughter over
the Don 1 swear > here it is ! of
The years swung together
clos ' n * ca,li P ,w 0
who would never meet stood
side b side on the circle of
tirae _f onei Go | iath Uncle
Foss and f onely minikin Bi
g Q 45
For ' Bi Bo whom , had
never heard say SQ much as
“Damn!” Big Bogga with one
( ear |jt- e a tiny snail-print on
b j s cbeek was sa yj n g “Poor
b , ood o , d m J er f Poor
bloody old mater ,..
were dropped into an old tin-
trunk.
“You’ll never make money
that way, Eric.”
“I know I won’t, Ted, but
what you cannot understand is
that there is an earned incre-
ment to all work, and creative
work pays dividends which are
not known outside the head
and heart of the worker.”
“You can’t retire on that.”
“A power-hungry man never
retires.”
His usually cold eye took on
a little glint of warmth: “I
know. Your move,” he said,
and his eyes went back to the
chessboard.
A very unusual man.
Randolph Bedford being
both Bohemian in spirit and
generous of hand, his electors
Who were in financial or other
trouble would come to Bris-
bane Parliament House with
the right hand extended. One
westerner who had outworn
his welcome by a never-failing
reference to the time when he
had worked had dipped so
often into the Bedford coffers
that the bustling member for
Warrego grew tired of him.
Jhe loafer came one morning,
sat for long hours in the
waiting-room, and was given a
letter with strict instructions to
give it to the manager of
Randolph’s bank, and to no
other. Shortly afterwards the
bank-manager phoned Ran-
dolph.
“Mr. Bedford,” said the
manager, “we take a very
serious view of such matters.”
“Well, you’re my financial
advisers, and I thought that
you could give the man some
indication that I didn’t want
his presence any more.”
“It is not banking practice,
Mr. Bedford.”
“Of course it isn’t. The man
has been biting my ear for so
long I have an ear like an
elephant’s, so I thought I’d
give him a cheque for a million
on your bank, and he might
awaken to my desire for
seclusion.”
“Well, Mr. Bedford, it’s very
irregular.”
“What? You don’t tell me
you cashed my cheque for a
million?”
Whilst the bank’s displeasure
didn’t deter the perpetrator of
the joke from loud laughter, it
did make the human cormorant
go in search of other fish.
With the many thousands he
had made out of floating Mt.
Isa Pty., Ltd., Randolph
decided that “I’m not going
to fritter this lot away. I’m
going to put it in bricks and
mortar.”
He did buy bricks and
mortar, but the human equa-
tion came into the matter, and
when Randolph’s emotional
character came up against the
inviolate statistics of com-
merce it was his emotions
which gave way.
Amongst the bricks and
mortar which he bought was
a block of flats that he turned
into a private hospital, and an
old hotel which he intended to
make the rendezvous for the
gourmets who would come to
Brisbane.
The old place was to be
pulled down, and a new build-
ing with a fine, great kitchen
where the best chefs to be
found were to show the
northern city how food should
be prepared and served. Cellars
there were to be, and vintages
which Radolph would select
himself. The future travellers
to Brisbane were to anticipate
their arrival with their flowing
taste-buds as they converged
on the city by plane, ship and
train.
And then came the human
factors: Kindliness v. Com-
merce. “To hell with com-
merce ! ”
For the aged lady who
managed the hotel when Ran-
dolph bought it was an Irish
one, who dressed late-
Victorian, thought late-Vic-
torian and ran the pub on
similar lines. The writer-
politician, poet, mining-
engineer and pub-owner with-
stood the advice of commerce
that the late-Victorian-dressed
manageress should be sacked
to make way for progress, and
the dreams of cellars and
gourmets faded, and the pub
staggered to its final disinte-
gration.
“Sack the old lady?” Ran-
dolph had asked. “Sack her?
If I do, may all the little green
men from her blessed isle jump
upon my ashes!”
And what are bricks and
mortar to a poet who has all
the world for his imaginings?
Nothing! The bricks went one
way and the mortar the other,
and when Randolph finally
sank to rest he could well say:
“And what shalj it profit a
man if he gain the world and
lose his own soul?”
Randolph went out of the
world endowed as he had come
into it, but he had given away
much of what he had, and to
thousands all over the world
he had provided the inestim-
able food for living—laughter.
He had always said: “The
game of life is greater than
the stake.”


with a straw, gives you a surprising
clout with it. just as if it were trying
to dong you on the head; which in fact
it is. It is a mildly startling device and,
if the insects which it smacks in this
way to effect its fertilisation seem to
accept the blow with equanimity, being
used to it, it is pleasing to learn from
Mrs. Erickson that trespassing ants are
considerably alarmed by it and at once
scurry off to the next triggerflower, to
be smacked again.
However, it is not so much the
flower’s ability to smack its pollen onto
an insect that impresses Mrs. Erickson
as how it subsequently contrives to
get itself, or rather its neighbor, ferti-
lised by the pollen it has unloaded:
which it does, apparently, by develop-
ing a stigma at the apex of the trigger
as it grows older and then, with this
receptive organ, giving a visiting insect
a second smack:—
While the insect sips, the trigger is
suddenly released in a swinging blow
that showers pollen over the guest.
What beomes of the pollen then?
Here the flower’s ingenuity almost
persuades the spectator that it has
intelligence. As the flowers grow
older the anthers at the apex of the
trigger become empty of pollen;
they shrivel and are pushed aside by
a hairy cushion or brush that grows
between them. This is the stigma.
When the pollen-laden insects visit
the older flowers they are already
prepared to brush-up the desired
pollen from the same spot that a
trigger had aimed it.
This is all very pleasant; but there
is, alas, not much more to be said for
triggerplants—except that they are
found all over Australia, particularly
in the paradisal wildflower areas in
southern Westralia; that there is the
surprising total of 136 known species
in this country, ranging from minute
ephemerals to tall leafy shrubs; that
they are definitely not carnivorous, as
is popularly supposed; that children in
Westralia call one species by the
amiable name of “cowkicks”; that
most of the species seem to have
arranged for only one kind of insect
to fertilise them; and that they have
a sort of cousin called the stylewort,
of which you can find twenty-million
along twenty miles of the Albany
Highway.
In general, the triggers have one
trick, and do it well; they have little
variety of form and, though ranging
from white to pink, red and purple,
nothing very remarkable in the way of
color: not like the orchids which have
a thousand peculiarities of form and
behavior and which, even the most
minute of them, are exquisite in their
harmonies and eccentricities of color.
Mrs. Erickson’s book therefore cannot
hope to have the popular appeal of
her “Orchids of the West”; but what
can be said for her humbler new friends
she says much more comprehensively
and accessibly than anyone has ever
said before; with lucid and attractive
color-plates and black-and-white draw-
ings; and with at all times a soft warm
wind from the bush blowing through
her text. She has watched these curious
little flowers not only in museums but
in their native swamps and hillsides.
Johnson and Boswell
F. L. Lucas’s The Search for Good
Sense (Cassell) submits four excellent
long essays: on Samuel Johnson, Lord
Chesterfield, Boswell and Goldsmith.
The studies of Johnson and Boswell
are new to the extent of taking in the
huge discovery of Boswell’s papers,
and new again in Lucas’s very precise
estimations of each, though inevitably
they tend to bat about the old ball:
who was the greater man, Boswell or
Johnson? Who is the greater, the Actor
or the Producer? Lucas is more shocked
by Boswell than by Johnson, and yet
the sum of his researches adds-up to a
conclusion that they were both half-
cracked.
Considered as comedy, Boswell's
“Life” has the pathos of great comedy
in the affection or respect with which
the rattle-brained roue attends the
impossible old literary bully. Drunk,
the one with learning, the other with
life, they stagger arm-in-arm down the
centuries, symbolising the despair of
generation after generation that the
gaiety of the moment must be tied to
such a heritage of experience, and that
the learning of the ages must endure
the impertinence of fashion.
From Lucas’s essay on Chesterfield
one gets the same feeling: Chesterfield
was half-cracked, too; a brilliant diplo-
mat who taught himself never to laugh
because laughter was unbecoming. An
aristocrat who compounded for ugli-
ness by teaching himself gentility, he
tried to pass the lesson on to his
son, who repaid him by vulgarly and
secretly marrying Miss Eugenia Peters.
Chesterfield, says Lucas, had “that
fantastic optimism with which many
educators tend to get intoxicated—that
curious faith that education can turn
sows’ ears into silk purses, and young
carthorses into Derby winners.”
And Goldsmith, tootling a flute
DROUGHT YEAR
The year’s journal, each leaf and day, is
rolled
Into a scroll of silence. Why I know —
7 his summer’s bark new on the spotted
gum
Sets seal upon it. All that has been told
Is in the splitter’s post and rail, row
Upon row of fencing. Out of the drum
Of summer’s heat, there’s nothing to
know.
Skulls of the long drought’s cattle dry
To lime-white, raddle my eyes; but not
In anger at a hostile god. No god
Has chastened these back-paddocks with
an eye
Of ire; no good or evil’s sought the lot
Of their dominion. Alt that here is
trod
By cloven hoof and pad, is hellish hot.
Here, “Milk’s” intellect dissects the
loose
Direction of the station boss’s son’s soft
patter —
Home on vacation; home on the “run.”
On the run,
For that matter, from vacuity; a truce
With no achievement. The would-be
squatter —
Doctor, or what-have-you. What is
done
Is done, in these parts, so a beast grows
fatter.
Mind learns an attrition of climate ,
Grasping straws
Can drown us in such seas of sunlight —•
two years’ drought.
You’ve crossed a sea like this ? You
know
Its terrible calm, its claim, obedience?,
Laws ~ s
And indomitable iron thirst: you don’t
talk about
Rain, but just the months, their come
and go.
All mention of the weather you leave
out.
The benefit’s that no one knows; and
nobody,
Being just nobody, breaks the silence.
Let
The weather-prophet bring the Wet; that
fool
Brings treble laughter and its mad echo.
All the bloody
Time, he and the Press are harping on
the Wet.
You dig up dry-year records, you are
the season’s ghoul.
The year locked in the tree, the wise
forget.
There is the silence of the year in the
tree ;
Its scroll is thrust away. In dust and
thirst
The bone rolls at its butt. Here is the
story
The roots grasp in their iron repository.
The year’s journal, enfolding time, is
nursed
With heat and flies. It is the old story,
Told and retold in the rings that burst
Asunder as the splitter’s axe works for
his thirst. _
JOHN BLIGHT.


through Europe, dressing like a pea-
cock, talking like poor Poll (though
he could talk very well) —he was more
than a bit of a fool also; although
Goldsmith’s sweetness and simplicity
seem to turn the edge of Lucas’s cen-
sure (he considers Goldsmith’s novel,
“The Vicar of Wakefield,” superior to
his play, “She Stoops to Conquer,” and
beside this novel he finds Jane Austen’s
work “a little chilly, a little flat, a
little dry.”).
So, these four characters, all bril-
liant, all in some way ridiculous, all
a little bit touched, how do they justify
Lucas’s title, “The Search for Good
Sense,” and the constant use he makes
of them for asides on the follies of the
present day? Lucas answers this in
his epilogue: they were half-cracked,
but at least they tried:—
If Johnson remains to-day more
than a grotesque or picturesque
eccentric, it is largely because,
though often swept into nonsense by
passion, prejudice, or pride, he
wrestled perpetually with himself for
honesty of mind. If Boswell is more
than a pathetic figure of fun, it is
largely because, though so often
senseless himself, he tirelessly pur-
sued good sense and intellectual dis-
tinction in others. If Chesterfield,
too prone to mistake cleverness for
wisdom, is more warning than
example, still the positive value of
his writing lies in its effort to see
realities unclouded by convention or
cant. And Goldsmith —to Hawkins,
“this idiot”; to Walpole, “an idiot,
with once or twice a fit of parts,”—
may yet seem to others in some ways
the wisest of all four. For he was
more sensitive, and yet the astringent
good sense of his age helped to pre-
serve his sentiment from growing too
sweet.
Journalists' Club Awards
President of Sydney Journalists’
Club, Kenneth Slessor, announced the
club’s 1957 awards for the best short-
story and for the best poem written by
an Australian.
First prize of £lOO for the best short-
story went to Hal Porter, of Bairns-
dale (Vic.), for “Uncle Foss and Big
Bogga.” Prizes of £5O were awarded
to Helen Wilson, of Dalkeith, W.A.,
for “A Field of Wheat,” and Mrs.
M. D. Cooper (Marien Dreyer), of
King’s Cross, Sydney, for “The Big
Wind.” The judges were Elizabeth
Riddell, poet and journalist, of Sydney,
and Peter Elkin, lecturer in English at
the N.S.W. University of Technology.
The judges of the poetry-competition,
Edgar Holt and John Thompson,
reported that no entry was “of a stand-
ard high enough to justify the award
of a prize.” The £lOO prizemoney has
been added to the prize for the club’s
1958 award.
Maybe it was too much to expect
that poetry should escape the
radio-, lottery- and racecourse-craze
for jackpots !
Reviewed Briefly
Trouble in West Two: Kevin Fitz-
gerald (Heinemann). This is an
English spy-story in which the under-
world-types are not copies of American
gangsters, and that is very rare. The
landlord of the evil pub and the vicious
bashers and jailbirds who plot there
are crooks that England can be really
proud of. There are two secret agents
who really can take it; and there are
two lovely girls working in with the evil
genius of the international spy-organi-
sation who really can dish it out.
Moreover, there is a sinister night-club
where such unspeakable things happen
in the secret looking-glass room that it
is a pity the author leaves them
unspoken.
* * * *
Will to Survive: Elizabeth Salter
(Bles). The author is the Australian
girl living in London who wrote the
New Zealand thriller “Death in a Mist”
a while back. This new murder-
mystery involves the death of a rich
Australian squatter by poison. When
it is found that he has left most of his
estate to his niece, his nurse, the family
begins to suspect her. But Miss Salter
is not satisfied; her suspicions rest on
the station-manager who is trying to
marry the niece, on the several sons of
the deceased, and on the beautiful wife
of one of the sons, and before the book
is over the reader is gratified with yet
more murder. But it’s not as clear and
as interestingly characterised as the
New Zealand book.
* * * *
He Should Have Died Hereafter:
Cyril Hare (Faber). The well-known
solicitor - sleuth Francis Pettigrew,
holidaying in the English countryside,
mounts a straying pony that has tossed
its rider during a hunt; the pony
bolts and carries him past a corpse
staring up from some bushes ; but when
he brings the hunt-secretary back to
look for it the corpse isn’t there. A
few days later the corpse turns-up at
another place ; it is the father of the
farmer-family with whom the Petti-
grews are staying. Meanwhile a rich
relative of the corpse has died, and if
the corpse is proved to have been dead
when Pettigrew said he first saw it this
will alter the inheritance of the farmer-
family. Cyril Hare is an English
County Court Judge, and his detective
stories are in that proportion superior
to other men’s, for their understanding
of English types and character, their
knowledge of law, and the precision of
their plots which approximates that" of
a faultless summing-up.
* * * *
South By Java Head: Alistair Mac-
Lean (Collins). Mac Lean is primarily
a storyteller ; in this, his third novel,
he traces the efforts of a crowd of
soldiers, nurses and a Brigadier Farn-
holme to get out of Singapore after
the city had fallen to the Japs. Fam-
holme has documents the Japs very
much want; he is also an ex-Bisley
man, and there is an exciting part where
he stands in an open boat and pumps
five bullets down the barrel of an enemy
sub.’s cannon . . . but Mac Lean dis-
poses of Famholme relatively early,
so that it’s never very clear whether
the Japs get the information or not.
The rest of the story, with a boatload of
Navy men and nurses trying to make a
getaway, falls a little flat.
* * * *
Run for Cover: John Welcome
(Faber). A “dead man” writes a book,
the typescript of which is stolen; a
Richard Graham, not quite in Spil-
lane’s class, scurries over to Paris for
a look-see. He flashes around Nice and
St. Tropez in commandeered cars,
makes love to stunning women without
being stunned, and eventually finds
the allegedly deceased author, who
talks to him of “woman’s infinite
variety,” etc. There’s something or
other about Communist intrigue, hardly
intriguing, and a gunfight to pop the
book out.
* * * *
Against the Wind: Geoffrey House-
hold (Michael Joseph). Autobiography
of a bird-of-passage turned soldier,
turned thriller-writer. Banking in
Bucharest, banana-selling in France
and Spain, hack-work in New York,
commercial travelling in Europe, the
Levant and South America. Would-be
sabotage in Rumania and Field Security
in Greece and the Near East. Polished
and (in part) frank.
* * * *
The Psychic Sense: Phoebe D.
Payne and L. J. Bendit (Faber).
Revised edition of the book first pub-
lished in 1943, Dr. Bendit being a
practising psychiatrist and his wife
(Phoebe Payne) a clairvoyant. L. A. G.
Strong says in a foreword that Miss
Payne can “see,” like an X-ray, into
human and animal bodies to diagnose
their ailments —she found a canker in a
cat’s right ear, for example—and has
also seen ghosts on the garden path.


This is one of the many accidents, caused by bad roads,
that are helping to push up your cost of living. Every
day perishable foods are lost through unnecessary
accidents and delays to transports. Who pays for this
waste? You might think the farmer, the insurance
company or the truck owner, but in the long run it’s
you who pays every time you buy something over
a counter.
76% of all freight is carried by road. Faults in our
road system, which cause transport accidents and
delays, result in unnecessarily high transport costs. In
fact, it is estimated that the cost of freight is 6/- in
every £1 y # ou spend on consumer goods. Experts say
that good roads would substantially reduce this freight
cost even by half. Based on last year’s retail sales
this would mean a saving to the community of nearly
£350,000,000 annually.
We need a blueprint for better roads - NOW!
Roadbuilding is vital to Australia’s economic growth. It
is a task of top and urgent priority that must be tackled
now. We have the engineers, the manpower and the
ingenuity to build good roads. What is urgently required
is an Australian National Roads Authority. Such an
authority could submit to the Federal Government a
constructive programme for the planning, financing,
building and the maintaining of Australia’s roads.
Good roads don’t cost . . . they pay!
CATERPILLA
When you think of
better roads, think of
the big yellow machines
that help build them.
0253
m
ORO *° E
® E S«R * ustraUA
AND
CAT ARE REGISTERED
TRADE MARKS OF
CATERPILLAR
TRACTOR CO.
CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA*
sd User of Trade Marks Caterpillar and C«l.
