

PROVED THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
as the
HOME LIGHTING
BATTERY that's
YEARS AHEAD
Century engineers working closely with leading battery
laboratories in U.S.A. perfected this marvellous homelighting
battery, approved by thousands of users all over Australia as
the finest battery ever made. It’s NEW IN EVERY DETAIL
—WITH NEW TECHNIQUES—NEW CONSTRUCTION
METHODS—NEW SUPER PERFORMANCE.
100 K AT THESE DYNAMIC FEATURES. NO OTHER BATTERY HAS THEM:
• SILVU'M-the scientific additive
which KEEPS PLACES .ACTIVE
WITH MAXIMCM EFFICIENCY ;
PREVENTS ORID CORROSION.
ONLY CE.VITRY MOMKLHSIIT-
I NO BATTERIES CONTAIN
SILVU'M.
• TRANSPARENT POLYSTY-
RENE CONTAINER . . . yon can
see the acid level at a glance.
• INBUILT GRAVITY BALL
INDICATORS . . . show statu
of charge AT ALL TIMES.
No more messy hydrometer.
• GLASS INSULATION — gives
sustained power during the
BATTERY’S ENTIRE LIFE.
BACKED BY A BULLET-PROOF
THREE YEARS' GUARANTEE
with SILVEUM
FOLLOW THE LEAD OF THOUSANDS OF SATISFIED GRAZIERS
AND STATION OWNERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
DEMAND THE BEST . . . BUY THE BEST . . . BUY CENTURY!
SILVIUM Batteries are also available for all cars, trucks, tractors, ate.
St*
rv'--.v
- .
guaranteed
Tllltlil: YEARS
These three gravity ball
Indicators whits, red
and green—are clearly
visible through the trans-
parent polystyrene con-
tainer. Their floating
position shows Instantly
the Battery s state of
charge.
AVAILABLE FROM CENTURY BATTERY DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
The Bulletin
Christianising the Abo. —page 3S
Wednesday , October 15,1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
I vogistoioil in Australia for transmission by post as a iiowspapor.


STORY WRITING
FREELANCE JOURNALISM
WRITING FOR RADIO
VERSE WRITING
If you desire to take up Writing seriously, we
recommend that you study all branches of
Literary Work—the Short Story, the Article,
the Written Sketch, the Paragraph, ltadio Plays,
Radio Talks, Scripts of all kinds, Verse, etc.
Stott’s Courses are thorough and complete. Write
for special Literary Prospectus.
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 119 Castlereagh
St.. Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane;
551 Gfenfell St., Adelaide; 251 Murray St.,
Perth.
—— CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON- —— -l
To STOTT'S: Please send me. without any )
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par- I
Oculars of your Literary Courses. |
MY NAME
ADDRESS j
AGE (S.B. 2058) I
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Bydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find It for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only If successful.
BOOKS BOUGHT
We visit you in tlie City and Suburbs
Immediate Cash Payment
Valuations made for Probate
BW 7874
(After Hours JY 1131)
BERKELOUW
114 King Street, (Between Pitt and
Castlereagh Streets), Sydney.
The Red Page
A HAL PORTER NOVEL
Hal Porter, who was winning short-
story competitions before the war, and
took the recent “S. M. Herald” and
Journalists’ Club prizes in the same
field, has published his first novel, A
Handful of Pennies (Angus and Robert-
son).
If the book seems to have no central
theme or character, it is because it is
about the emptiness of victory; it is
about the meaningless life of some
Australians among the occupation-
forces of Japan.
A beautiful young woman school-
teacher has an affair with a young
Japanese student and contracts venereal
disease. A padre is sent home after
an inquiry into a homosexual affair
with a young Japanese bartender. A
young captain gets off with a beautiful
Japanese taxi-dancer; then he has to
go away, and she goes home, is
affianced to a Japanese farmer, jilts him,
and the parents are left to complete
the burning-ritual proper to the occa-
sion. An old major philosophises on
the degradation of the Japanese to
Western conventions, and dies after
being buffeted in a Japanese festival.
An Australian Government official,
remarkable in that no one ever notices
him, dies of having gone to bed sick
and no one missing him . . .
Porter’s feeling about beaten Japan
might be summarised from his descrip-
tion of a Japanese strip-tease vaude-
ville: —
•Strip-tease women removed their
motley with the brusqueness of little
girls preparing to get into the bath
with their brothers or the lucid
directness of a tired housewife dis-
robing. ... .Two little men hastened
in as the last bottom disappeared.
They were Orientals imitating Crosby
and Hope imitating an Edwardian
vaudeville sketch; within this com-
plex and preposterous framework
they sang “Underneath the Arches”
in their own tongue, soft-shoed,
back-chatted, neck-scratched, knee-
slapped, elevated and lowered
George Robey—or was it Groucho
Marx? —eyebrows . . .
It is a study of a people who have
lost face—and here Porter, far from
being discommoded, is really at home.
Those who have read his stories pub-
lished in the past few years in “The
Bulletin” (those neat typescripts, the
precision of which challenges the
alteration of a word or comma) will
remember an actress stripped to the
bones by a dreadfully exact schoolboy,
a playboy followed through his various
phases to the conclusion that he didn’t
have a face at all, jesters at the expense
of a dead actor levelled neatly to
equality with their butt. There is not
a little of Porter’s style and manner in
his description of the colonel who
inquired into the padre’s affairs with
boys:—
Immaculate, impersonal in manner,
impassive of face, the colonel did not
reveal that he was enjoying the
questioning .... Stringently chival-
rous, a concealed egotist command-
ing as a doge, he was charming be-
cause sin and sinners gave him
pleasure and because, to arrive at
the foregone end of justice, he was
able to thrill himself, and thrill him-
self again and again, by elongating
the means in every voluptuous
direction.
Precise as his colonel is immaculate
—not a French carpet, but an Aubus-
son—seeking in his characters the
wrong word or lapse of intonation that
will betray them, his plots virtually
ingenious contrivances for his people’s
downfall, Porter none-the-less arrives
at justice. His schoolmistress, in pain,
and unaware of its cause, has to go to
a hospital whose report will ensure her
deportation; and the loss-of-face of
both padre and schoolmistress is com-
pleted by a farewell-party so carefully
arranged to cover their reasons for
leaving that it emphasises them. The
taxi-dancer, having left her country
home and her affianced farmer, to
return to taxi-dancing, allows Porter
to complete his beautiful picture of
country life in Japan with the cruel
scene of her parents’ ritual grief.
Eventually the reader of Hal Porter’s
prose must salute an artist who, in a
reasonable number of years, has not
yet compromised his fierce and original
vision. If the vision seems cold and
merciless, it is a coldness and lack of
mercy that is caught-up into the
impersonal serenity of art. One is
reminded of the story about Cezanne
that so pleased Clive Bell: The old
painter had been drawn by a young
cartoonist with his arms round a tree,
saying: “Ah, that I could transport you
bodily to my canvas.” Cezanne’s only
comment was, “Ah, Monsieur Vollard,
but the world is terrifying!” It was not,
says Bell, the vapid cartoonist he
blamed but the world in which such
things could happen. And so, in the
dreadful showdowns that scarify
Porter’s people, a student of his stories
may very well find that it is not, ulti-
mately, the people who shock him but
the world in which they are obliged to
suffer.
Australia has been fortunate, of
recent years, in having at least two
writers who approximate, in their
different ways, the rare quality of Hal
Porter’s prose; there is David Camp-
bell and there was Ethel Anderson;
but no one in Australia is writing
better than Porter.
R.McC.
Greek Vases
It is unusual to find a dissertation on
Greek vases among the general run of
Australian publications, yet for a long
time there has been reason enough for
someone in Australia to write about
them; for, as Professor A. D. Trendall
reminds us in The Felton Greek Vases
(Griffin Press, Adelaide), Sydney has
had about a hundred vases in the
Nicholson collection at the University
since the 1850’s; Melbourne has the
John Hugh Sutton collection; Canberra,
as well as the mosaic from a church
at Gaza in the War Memorial, has some
Greek vases at the University; the Uni-
versity of Tasmania is also building up
a small collection, “to the significance
of which the newly-named Hobart
(Continued on page 58)


rm f t
um
\ ¥>r
r/
' /
r
Vs
V-
Wih
n
in
l
i■ » i
You mean I get al[ that protection from
I.N.A.—lnsurance Company of North America
—specialises in home protection insurance . . .
insurance for you. They believe in prompt
claims settlement . . . interpret insurance
contracts in a spirit of compromise and
reasonableness . . . offer a new, sincere
concept of helpful insurance protection.
1.N.A., established in Philadelphia, U.S.A.,
in 1792, has given security through insurance
for the past 166 years. This same security,
backed by over 867 million dollars resources,
can be yours.
I.N.A. offer insurance cover for General
Household policies (Home and Contents, and
Personal Effects), Small Business policies
(Fire with Consequential Loss of Profits,
Public Risk, Burglary, Plate Glass, Personal
Accident and all Sickness), Marine policies
(intrastate, interstate and international),
Tourist Travel and Luggage Protection.
Why not have a chat with the insurance
specialists from I.N.A.? ... it could be in your
own interest to see how they can serve you,
and they are friendly people to deal with too.
mm
1792
INSURANCE COMPANY OF NORTH AMERICA
Incorporated in U.S.A. with Limited Liability.
BRANCHES AT SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • AUCKLAND, N.Z.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, October 15, 1958
Vol. 79—No. 4105
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adama
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
Mew Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
FEDERALISM AND REFORM
'"THE recommendations of the Joint
A Party Committee on the Common-
wealth Constitution basically divide
themselves into sections —one aimed to
clear-up the fog surrounding Section
92; one to remove the obstacles which
so far have stood in the way of the
creation of new States; one to extend
the Commonwealth’s powers rationally
in relation to conciliation and arbitra-
tion; one to increase its powers in
relation to capital-issues and consumer-
credit; and one to vest the Common-
wealth with express powers to deal with
several matters in which it was not
conceived at the time of Federation
that it would have to meddle in the way
now required in the Welfare State.
Some of these matters concern sub-
jects that hadn’t been heard of when
the Constitution was formulated —
nuclear energy, aviation, scientific and
industrial research in the electronic age,
radio and television. Finally, there is
a machinery section to remould Parlia-
ment in another professed attempt to
find a real niche in the legislature for
the Senate and to avoid the deadlocks
which are at present inevitable and
which make the Upper House merely
a crumb in the throat of Parliament.
The whole structure of the proposals
suggests that each section involved
secured recommendations about which
other sections were not much con-
cerned. The great, clogging issue of
freedom of inter-State trade seems to
have been handled in a way that com-
promises between the old and the new.
The committee advocates the revival
of the now almost forgotten Inter-State
Commission, linking it with an amend-
ment to Section 51, the powers clause
of the Constitution, to give Parliament
express authority to legislate about
restrictive trade practices found by the
commission to be against the public
interest, or to allow it to refer matters
to the commission for inquiry or report.
At the same time it is proposed to
take the restrictions of Section 92 off
the back of Parliament in respect of
marketing-powers, and especially in
respect of power to legislate in pro-
posals adopted by a three-fifths
majority in individual industries for
the marketing of primary products.
The States are offered a sop in the
form of power to tax inter-State road-
transport traffic, subject to policing by
the revived Inter-State Commission and
non-discrimination between intra- and
inter-State traffic. This the States no
doubt will think fair enough, even if
it has its snags and if the removal of
the inhibitions of Section 92 may
produce other food for the lawyers.
The provision proposed regarding
new States is in effect aimed to force
the hands of existing States which,
while their Governments frequently
profess readiness to agree to subdivi-
sion, somehow never get round to deal-
ing with the matter in a practical way.
The reforms proposed do not destroy
the existing basic right of the States
to agree through their Parliaments to
the formation of new States, but hold
a gun at the heads of those that refuse
to treat seriously strong requisitions
from particular regions for separation.
Under the new proposals the State
Parliaments, if obstinate, can be by-
passed and the matter decided by
referendum in the States affected.
There is no doubt that with the rapid
growth and redistribution of popula-
tion the new-States issue will become
a livelier one each year, and it would
be well if some constructive thinking
in the matter in relation to the whole
Commonwealth were done at an early
date. The country should not over a
period of years be subjected to the
continuous regional agitation and
Parliamentary manoeuvre which would
be bound to follow the first application
of the new principles.
A plan for subdivision embodying
a Commonwealth-wide scheme and
fixed principles covering future break-
aways and accretions of States’ terri-
tory could be submitted to the electors.
Any major division involving new
regions will eventually be complicated
by consideration of sovereign powers
of the States. And the people of the
whole Commonwealth will sooner or
later have to face the issue of whether
the Commonwealth can continue to live
in a complex modern world with only
its present limited sovereign powers,
which in respect of some matters, e.g.,
treason, place the central Government
in a fantastically inferior position.
The proposal that referenda may be
carried by a majority of electors in only
half the States envisages, with the
whittling-down of State Parliamentary
powers in relation to new States, a
writing-down of State sovereignty and
of Federation, as does also the general
tenor of the recommendations in respect
of conciliation and arbitration and
capital-issues and consumer-credit.
These proposals all show a tendency
away from true Federalism, which is
probably why the Labor members of
the committee found them so easy to
accept. The “industrial union” with
Commonwealth-wide power and a
dictatorial central Government will
soon be Labor’s only hope in the
legislative sphere of introducing the
glorious age of Socialisation for which
Evatt, Calwell and Ward openly yearn
—except during election campaigns—
in accordance with the official objective
of the party.
Canberra, in fact, seems all for
centralism, even though its members
almost to a man are compelled to give
lip-service to the Federal ideal and to
make a political plaything of State
rights.
The other proposals are all in keep-
ing with this trend. Increased powers
to control conciliation and arbitration
satisfy Labor, since they imply a con-
tinuance of the present system of adjust-
ment between employer and employee,
while snatching a lot of the authority
away from the States. The same is true
of corporation legislation and particu-
larly of the proposals to control capital-
issues and consumer-credit to a far
greater degree from Canberra.
If the reforms proposed are imple-
mented the States as sovereign bodies
will be on their way out. The changes
proposed in the Senate would turn
that supposed House of the States into
an echo of the Lower House, tying its
periods of existence to the House of
Representatives and making its deci-
sions ultimately subject to the domina-
tion of the greater number of the Repre-
sentatives in joint meetings to end
deadlocks. It certainly would emascu-
late the whole theory on which the
constitution of the Senate rests.
It is surprising that the report has
provoked so little controversy. When
the implications come to be better
appreciated it may not be so easy to
carry the proposals by referendum in
a sufficient number of States, even if
Parliament adopts them.
The ideal manner, of course, for
bringing constitutional forms into being,
if the Federal ideal is maintained in all
its rigid purity, is through the agree-
ment of the Parliaments of the States
to the proposed alterations.
The test will come when it is seen
how much State Parliamentary support
the proposals receive. And the
referendum, when and if submitted, will
show how much electoral support
remains for the Federal theory and
how much for turning the Common-
wealth into a centralised nation with
regional and subordinate provinces.


OPENING NIGHT
“No, not that thing, Eddie. Go and get your wand.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Pope and the World
The death of the Pope brings to an end
one of the most eventful reigns of a
Pontiff in modern times.
His Holiness Pius XII reigned through
a period of great change in the political
structure of the world, one in which the
enemies of Christianity and religion in
general were more active than they had
been for centuries. He reigned through
the period, in fact, when Communism
made its most deadly assault on the
Churches, persecuting their priesthoods
and missionaries, confiscating their
properties, suppressing everywhere facili-
ties for worship.
He also lived into the period in which
Communism has felt itself forced to
compromise on the religious question,
haying proved itself unable to stamp-out
faith in religion.
The late Pope ranked high in Vatican
diplomacy before there was even thought
of a world war. He was one of those
who represented the Roman Catholic
Church at the coronation of King George
V; he was sent as Pope’s emissary to
Munich in 1917 to try to persuade the
Kaiser to make peace.
He became a cardinal just as the
depression of the ’thirties began. He
succeeded to the Papacy on the brink of
World War 11. He did his utmost to
avert war ; when it came his attitude leant
openly to the allies of Britain, though the
Vatican was an island in the midst of a
threatening Axis sea whose controllers
would have liked to swallow or destroy it.
When the Allied forces swept into Rome
he welcomed them openly.
When the Pope died not one of his
contemporaries of the great world of 1914
remained. And the surprising fact was
that, assuming the right to set moral
standards and clinging to beliefs which
smacked to the semi-athiestic modern
world of Leftism and Fascism as idolatory
and out-of-tune with the thought of the
greater part of the press and the politics
of his period, he nevertheless ended his
life ruling over a stronger Church than
at the beginning of his reign.
This was true despite the blotting-out
of its organisation in countries in which
it had formerly been supreme in the lives
of the people, but which had fallen behind
the Iron Curtain.
He has even forced Communism into
the position in Catholic countries under
its control that it no longer dares fully to
deny the Church, its leaders having been
compelled to abandon at any rate their
public support of the doctrine that
“religion is the opium of the people.”
Many more people in the world dis-
agreed with Pope Pius’s doctrine of the
“supranationality” of the Church of
Rome than agreed with it. Many, indeed,
saw in his anti-modernism in doctrine a
return to medieval idolatry and super-
stition.
But nobody could deny his tremendous,
indeed almost unique and all-pervading,
diplomatic and personal influence in the
world, or that its tendency was for the
general good and for the stability of the
essentials on which the Western system
of religion and morality are based.
The world will hope that his successor
is as great and as simple and as staunch
a prince of the Church.
Killing State Rights
Proposals for the reform of the Senate
contained in the report of the Consti-
tutional Committee limn the difficulties
which beset anybody who attempts to
reform the irreformable.
The Senate is supposed to be, as it is
in the United States, the House of the
States, safeguarding their interests and
more-or-less under the control of the
States through method of election.
Unfortunately, in their enthusiasm for
the Washington model our Founding
Fathers seem to have failed to take into
account the natural effects of our par-
ticular system cf Cabinet Government in
which Ministers are drawn from both
Houses of Parliament.
It has always been quite obvious that
since financial measures are initiated in,
and in the ultimate controlled by, the
Lower House the Prime Minister and
his principal lieutenants must sit in that
chamber; that only junior .members
without hope of promotion can adorn
the Senate, which is called paradoxically
“the Senior House,” and, by an empty
fiction, constitutionally treated as such.
This Ministerial position assures for
the Senate inferior rank.
A House of the States is an anomaly
in a Parliament bursting with authori-
tarian national zeal and the desire to
centralise its powers. It is therefore
natural that almost every move made
within the law to reform the Senate
should be directed to turning it into a
helot body, divorced from the original
theories behind its creation and merely
a kind of gramophone institution kept
on the side-lines to cheer the decisions
made in “another place.”
Proportional - representation ha m-
strung the Senate in its existing form
and made it ready for the final operation
of removing its last power to resist —
if power to resist was worth while after
the financial-agreement amendments of
the Bruce-Page era.
The plans now put forward by the
Constitutional Committee will add the
final touch to a long-drawn-out major
weakening process if adopted.
By providing an easy alternative to
the double-dissolution as the only method
of resolving a deadlock, the committee
proposes that the Governor-General may
call a joint meeting of the two Houses
which may approve the measure “by an
absolute majority of both Houses and
by at least one-half of the members of
the two Houses chosen for and in a
State in at least one-half of the States.”
It is proposed to abandon six-year
terms for senators and provide that they
should hold their places only until the
expiry or dissolution of the second House
of Representatives after their election,
unless the Senate should be earlier dis-
solved under Section -57 —the existing law
relating to double-dissolutions.
The changes are in line with those
concerning the passage of referenda for
constitutional amendment, which do
away with the necessity for approval by
a majority of the States and call for
support only from an equality of numbers
of States.
Though the Governor-General retains
the right to give double-dissolutions it is
unlikely that his right would ever be
used, and therefore a short-cut is pro-
vided by which the House of Represen-
tatives can almost certainly and invariably
overrule any Upper House decision.
The suggestions of the dissentients
from the agreement —Immigration Minis-
ter Downer and Senator Wright of Tas-
mania—are valid. If the States are to
continue as States, then it is a bargain
that the Senate should not be monkeyed
with. Change could be sound only if the
reforms were based on the first prin-
ciples of Federalism and, as Senator
Wright suggests, the Senate ceased to be
a House in which Ministers sit and for
which decisions are made in joint caucus
meetings.
The Senate has no chance of being
a useful body until it is deeded some
special functions. It might well acquire
some of the quasi-judicial character
which attaches to the United States
Senate, separating its operations entirely
from those of the Representatives and
demonstrating through its standing com-
mittees of inquiry and investigation the
salutary principle that a large flea can
be good for a dog. This would involve
exclusion from it of Ministers.
The Government might not like it, but
a Senate which provided candid and
independent committees of criticism
dealing with foreign affairs, accounts, etc.
might do very good work.
Albert Namatjira
The decision of Albert Namatjira to
appeal against his sentence of six months’
jail for having supplied liquor to
aborigines brought back to a rational
plane a case which has been the subject
of much irrational writing and talk.
Sympathy for the misfortunes of one
who till his recent fall from grace had
rightly been regarded as one of the finest
men of his race has tended to obscure
the real issue in the case. At the
beginning of August Namatjira was a
witness at the inquest on a native woman
who had been killed after a drunken
party held at Namatjira’s camp, he having
procured the drink. On that occasion the
magistrate admonished Albert for sup-
plying liquor to natives, warned him of
the penalties and asked him to promise
not to do so in future. The incident from
which his conviction resulted occurred
barely a fortnight later.
Criticism of the artist’s conviction
seems to take one of two lines: that
the law should not have been applied
to Namatjira or that the law itself (with
no option of a fine) is unnecessarily
harsh. When Namatjira was given full
citizenship at the urging of white
friends and admirers —he, of necessity,


assumed responsibilities as well as rights.
At the inquest he was reminded of one
specific responsibility and acknowledged
that he understood it. The authorities
had no course but to charge him when
he next transgressed. If they had not
done so they would have been neglecting
their duty towards the other aborigines
of the Territory who are, as Namatjira
once was, their wards.
Whether on the evidence the magistrate
was right in finding Albert guilty is for
the Appeal Court to decide, but having
declared him guilty he had no option but
the jail sentence. The law in question
was not made for the purpose of putting
Albert Namatjira into prison or keeping
him out of it. It was designed to deter
unscrupulous persons from selling liquor
to natives, and for that purpose provision
for a fine would have been useless.
Namatjira’s motives in supplying liquor to
his friends were above reproach, but
unfortunately, as the death of. the native
woman testifies, liquor given to aborigines
by a famous artist can be just as disas-
trous in its effect as that sold by grog-
pedlars.
Namatjira’s decline is a tragedy, and he
has the sympathy of most Australians —
including the Administration and the
Government, judging by Mr. Hasluck’s
comments. No one really wants to see
him go to jail. But saving him from jail
is a minor thing compared with the task
of saving him from drink, his real jailer.
Namatjira can be prevented from
supplying liquor to other aborigines, but
so long as he remains a free citizen he
can’t be prevented from supplying it to
himself. In this respect his citizenship
has become a burden to him, yet it is
doubtful whether he can be relieved of
it except at his own request. The appro-
priate people to suggest this course to
him are those who sponsored his nomina-
tion for citizenship. Or perhaps those
misguided and thoughtless city friends
who encouraged him to believe that the
badge of citizenship was the right to drink.
Victorian Labor in Decline
On performances Victorian Labor seems
to have reached the lowest point for
many years. Labor Parliamentarians
elected Clive Stoneham as their new
leader, not because of any outstanding
qualities but simply because there was no
one else. Campbell Turnbull, whom the
party had tacitly chosen as leader some
weeks ago, was not in sufficiently robust
health to stand for election. Leslie Galvin
was willing, but was patently unfit at the
moment to shoulder the burden.
One of the most capable men in the
party, Galvin then lost the deputy-leader-
ship because his colleagues didn’t want a
deputy as well as a leader from the
country. Stoneham has represented
Maryborough for 16 years; Galvin
represents Bendigo.
Immediately after his election Stone-
ham launched a censure motion moving
for a cut in the Estimates by £l, but,
instead of concentrating on the Govern-
ment’s extravagance, he wearied the
Assembly with a pre-election harangue on
topics that Dr. Evatt will apparently be
trotting-out later in his policy-speech.
He claimed the Government was incit-
ing industrial turmoil because of its
blatant disregard of the workers ; that the
trade-union movement was simmering
with discontent and a boil-over could be
expected ; that a shocker State Budget
had been suppressed in the interests of
the Federal Liberals -and had been
delayed because Menzies was most
uncomfortable about the elections.
Lovegrove, who had defeated Galvin
for the deputy-post, made no bones about
his Federal election-speech ; he devoted
it chiefly to explaining how the Federal
Government was preoccupied in giving
as much money as possible to about a
hundred wealthy Australian companies.
Thinking men on the Labor benches
must have sighed for a John Cain.
A Lesson in Eggs
A most interesting lesson on the law
of cost and consumption has just been
demonstrated in Victoria, but has been
played-down by all concerned, since the
ideal of many of those engaged in com-
peting for the Australian market is the
impossible target of high prices and high
turnover.
On September 1 the price of first-
quality eggs was dropped to 4s. 2d. a
dozen, representing a drop of 2s. Id. in
little more than a month. H. O. Murray,
the chairman of the Egg Board, explained
that the new policy had the backing of
the entire industry, and was a genuine
attempt to test consumers’ assertions
(housewives’ organisations, presumably)
that it would not be necessary to export
eggs if the local price was dropped. It
may have been a genuine attempt, but
there is no doubt it was forced on the
board as the only alternative to heavy
export losses.
Apparently the chairman was not one
of those who believed in the ultimate
success of the lower local price. A few
days after the announcement he was
expressing grave doubts whether the drop
in price would increase sales.
There were also protests against the
grocers’ margin of Bd. a dozen, which
the grocers have grimly declined to cut;
complaints about inter-State rackets in
competition with genuine inter-State
trade ; renewed pleas for Commonwealth
control, and, before the results of the
new price could be determined, requests
by poultrymen for higher prices and a
high subsidy.
Five weeks after the price-reduction
the Egg Board disclosed that sales had
risen by 30 per cent., permitting an
immediate reduction in the producers’-
pool payments from fourpence to three-
pence.
What has happened is that the heavy
losses on overseas markets have been
cut substantially; the way the board
puts it is that “our policy has benefited
consumers in giving them a price-
concession which in previous years has
been enjoyed by consumers overseas.”
The truth is that the housewives were
right, and the board has been deter-
minedly wrong for years.
Revolution in Pakistan
The news of the breakdown of constitu-
tional government in Pakistan seems to
mark the final deterioration of the
Baghdad Pact. The weak attitude of the
West to the shocking events by which
Iraq betrayed its friends to Nasser and
his followers no doubt had a tremendous
effect in the harassed Pakistani Republic,
which has suffered from every kind of
harassment because of its adherence to
the West.
Its borders have been invaded by
Russian-prompted and armed levies from
Afghanistan. * It has faced opposition
and threats from India. It has suffered
a large seepage of Arab agents of Nasser.
Its people have seen British and Ameri-
can prestige dragged in the dust while
Nasser flourishes like a poison weed in
the shadow of Moscow.
Moreover, though it has a population
greater than any country save Russia
west of the Indian border (latest estimate,
85,900,000), it is largely composed of
poor land. And it is split into two
“islands,” East Pakistan, with more than
half its population, being buried in the
hostile mass of mother India far away
near the Assam borders.
In the midst of all the external
pressures and bewilderments Pakistan
has faded to sustain a Government,
either party or coalition, and its politics
have become an affair of violence and
bloodshed in which subversionists have
begun to get out of hand and mob-rule
to be in the offing.
Following the falling to pieces of the
four-day-old coalition Government last
week the President, General Iskander
Mirza, dismissed the central and provin-
cial Governments, abolished political
parties and handed the control of the
country over to martial law under
General Mohammed Ayub Khan, the
Army Commander-in-Chief.
Troops took over all public facilities,
and the drastic nature of the crisis was
obvious from the announcement that in
spite of everything the Government
would honor its international obliga-
tions, “which involve firm unity with the
Western defence system, despite the
unintelligent and irresponsible criti-
cism.” At the same time the President
attacked “political adventurers who do
their best to creaHe bad blood between
us and countries like the U.S.S.R., the
United Arab Republic and the People’s
Republic of China.”
Whatever the objective, it is clear
that Pakistan has become a one- or
two-man military dictatorship of the
type which took over Egypt, one which
knows no law beyond its own purpose.
It remains to be seen whether the real
intention, as is stated, is to “restore
democracy, but of a kind that people
can understand or work.” The instru-
ments for its fashioning are certainly
drastic in their plans.
Whether they are for continuance of
association with the Western defence
system or not, Pakistan represents at
present only one more embarrassment
and contribution to chaos in the Middle
East and to the whittling-away of
Western influence in Asia.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
'Two well-preserved young ladies in a
bus: “One doesn’t have to go out at
all these days ; every night this week I’ve
been watching films on TV.” “Watching
films on TV—you dear, old-fashioned
thing!”—“Nunk.”
►l* »> *l*
“Apemantus”: “The Australian Manu-
facturing Jewellers’, Watchmakers’ and
Opticians’ Gazette” advises them to:
“Help your Customer Remember his
Wedding Anniversary.” Them, and who
else?
♦♦♦
“P.W.”: Two university-professor posi-
tions were offered in the same day’s
“West Australian”: “Senior Lecturer in
Anatomy (Professor), £2200 p.a. (Sydney);
and Professor of Music (Perth), £3500
p.a.” Does this prove the superiority of
the tuba to the tibia?
♦> *> ❖
“Louie and Louse”: Was surprised to
read “Bo's” remarks (B. 24/9/’5B) on
serving a summons by touching the
recipient with it. I am assured by my
lawyer that it is only necessary for the
summons to be thrown at your feet and
you’ve had it, brother.
♦> ♦>
“0.W.W.”: Bill from Boggabri, who
paraded from his boarding-house bath-
room wearing only a towel (B. 17/9/’5B),
reminded me of a dame of about 70
summers I met late one night in the
passageway at Hotel Lloyds in Welling-
ton (N.Z.). All she was wearing was a
towel and a troubled expression. As I
“ Order , Gertie , order! The Right Honorable the Prime Minister
has the floor!”
stepped smartly aside to let her pass she
explained matters: “Them bloody salts
is playin’ ’avoc with me.”
“Eureka”: Coming down the Blue
Mountains (N.S.W.) in the new stainless-
steel “Fish,” a fellow-passenger pointed
out a splendid private garden near
Springwood and remarked: “That’s
where the artist carved a life-sized figure
of his wife shortly after she died, dressing
it in clothing appropriate to the weather
each morning.” But an old engine-driver
told me the real story. An artist did live
in the splendid home and amused himself
carving a stump into the figure of a nude
woman. For a joke he and a friend put
a raincoat over the figure during a shower
of rain, and this started a story about the
eccentric artist, so the artist kept the joke
going by frequently changing the dress
of the statue, and engine-drivers, as they
rounded the bend, would remark to their
firemen: “I wonder what the old girl
is wearing today?” The artist died, and
the stump statue was left to the moulder-
ing and remoulding of white-ants and
legend.
♦l* * ►!»
“Jeyles”: When “Chu Chin Chow”
(B. 17/9/’5B) ran its War I London
record, Oscar Asche, instead of giving
the audience (mostly jaded warriors)
the thrill of seeing frail harem sylphs
thrown bundled into the Bosphorus, had
his Eastern houris, extremely unbundled,
stroll into and out of a stage pool, which
awarded a degree of diaphanousness not
hitherto attained on the London stage.
Equity squawked about possible
pneumonia, etc., and the Lord Chamber-
lain’s office simmered about the
decencies. On the first count the girls
drew a little extra dirt-money, and on
the second added another string of beads
to the G-strings, and on went the show.
♦> ♦♦♦ ❖
“Bagot”: Haven’t come across any of
the chain-store opals bought by “Verre”
for 2s. ll|d. (B. 24/9/’5B), but anyone
who has seen the genuine fire-flashing
stone could never be deceived by imita-
tions made of “glass with a few colored
chips under it.” Hosts of opal pendants,
earrings and brooches are sold by
reputable jewellers throughout Australia
for a few pounds apiece, but they are
always carefully described and invoiced
as doublets (white opal skilfully cemented
to a background of black potch). But
ask for black opal, the real thing —you’ll
be hauling out your cheque-book and
wondering if your balance will stand the
impact.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Imperial 55”: When preparing
income-tax returns you strike richly
varied claims for deductions, particularly
in gifts to charities and payments for
advertising. Some are legitimate and
some are not, and some meet horrible
fates at the hands of typists. This year’s
included: The Methodist Sundry School,
The Ashfield Infantry Home, The N.S.W.
College of Nursey, and The Hawkesbury
District Exstidford Society.
LAMENT FOR “TRUTH”
“Sydney’s Sunday newspaper, ‘Truth/ has
been replaced by ‘The Sunday Mirror.’
What shall we read now “Truth” is dead?
No Guilty Lovers Caught in Bed !
A Family “Mirror” there instead,
The Injured Wife’s Despairing Cry
Suppressed into A Living Lie —
Good-bye to “Truth!” Good-bye! Good-
bye !
There was one “Truth” and only one;
None like it in the “Herald” —none !
“Sun-Herald,” “Telegraph” and “Sun,”
Although they’ve given it a fly,
Have found that they have aimed too
high :
Good-bye to “Truth!” Good-bye! Good-
bye !
So if not “Truth,” then let bells be .
Tolled as its soul perfumedly
Rises in air to join TV
And make a gutter in the sky
For those to paddle-in, who sigh :
“Good-bye to ‘Truth!’ Good-bye!
Good-bye!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


Tn the U.K. if you buy a derelict
•*- cottage with the object of convert-
ing it you become eligible for a grant
of up to £4OO from the Ministry of
Housing and Local Government. The
cottage, when you’ve finished with it,
must be dry, have adequate window-
space, a w.c., bath and sink (with proper
drainage), and gas or electricity where it
is available, a fuel-store, and heating and
cooking facilities. The grant may not
exceed 50 per cent, of the whole
cost of the conversion, and can
in no case exceed £4OO. You are
required to spend at least £lOO
on the job, of which you may get
as much as £5O refunded. There
are plenty of attractive old cot-
tages and houses here, but most
are fast falling into a state beyond
conversion because finance for
buyers is impossible to obtain on
any house more than 10 years
old. So cities and country towns
continue to sprawl, spawning
unsightly weatherboard and fibro-
cement chicken-coop villas on valu-
able pasture-land. —“Narumee.”
<* ❖ ❖
“Scribonia”: My schoolgirl
companion was criticising the
scraggy horse-tail hair-do of a
mate in front of us in the bus. “I
don’t like the hair to fall straight
down like that. I like it to lift up
and then curve like a real horse’s
tail,” she said, gracefully but
unconsciously demonstrating the
way of a neddy with its tail when
nature is about to function. This
hair-do is not, as may be supposed,
a modern creation. In the London
Museum a bust of the huntress-
goddess Diana, dug up in Roman-
Britain, shows Di with her hair
worn in this style complete with
ring; which, perhaps, symbolises
a horse’s crupper. Boadicea,
Queen of the Iceni, who tried
unsuccessfully to throw the
Romans out of Britain, bred horses for
export on the then lush runs of Kent, and
although we usually think cf the “warrior-
queen” with wild-waving tresses driving
her nags in a murderous-looking scythed-
chariot, she may have started the fashion
the sculptor imitated in the extant bust.
❖ ❖ *
“Pip Tok”: Reports of the wedding
of a Jamaica man of 109 provide further
support for the old saying: “A man’s
never too old to yearn.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: Well, the job of the “Economic
Biologist” (B. 1/10/’5B) was less appeal-
ing 60 or more years ago in the port
of Liverpool. When a ship had dis-
charged its cargo, men descended into
the holds, and, after smearing their
hands with aniseed, lay flat on their
backs with arms outstretched and hands
open. At the first sniff, the rat would
be quickly grabbed and placed in a bag.
The human trap would then re-lay itself.
Families had contracts with the ship-
owners at so much a rat —in the course
of his shift one man might catch a couple
of dozen. What might have happened
to a catcher had he fallen asleep on the
job I don’t care to imagine.
“D.M.”: Mrs. X., teacher in our
Second-grade, had her hair cut last week
in a most attractive but slightly extreme
“Italian-boy” style. Seven : year-old Sue-
Jane, the Grade-2 book-monitor, was
“Going! Going! Going! But, gentlemen, I must remind you she
is only modelling the jewellery.”
stirred to the depths of her budding
feminine soul: “Gee, it’s lovely! she
enthused ; and went on, “Mummy had
her hair cut like that and Daddy laughed
and said she looked a fright—what did
Mr. X. say about yours?” Mrs.
X. admitted that he had laughed, too,
and said she looked funny. “Tch, tch,
tch,” sympathised Sue-Jane ; “aren’t men
a trial about the place! ”
+♦♦
“Gyre”: A trip to the Lamington
National Park, Queensland, entailed a
pleasant stay at Binna-Burra Lodge, top
of Mount Roberts. Found the visitors’-
book most interesting; one entry,
“Undoubtedly the best honeymoon we
have ever had —thank you,” had me
wondering. In my day successful honey-
mooners had no one to thank but them-
selves.
*X* ♦> *Z*
“Miss M.”: In Hoyle’s Games
Modernised all the games you’ve ever
played, from Old Maid to Contract and
.Solo, or Five Hundred to Slippery Sam,
Poker and Pontoon ( Vingt-et-un ) appear
in their turn —but have you ever played
Pope Joan, Lansquenet, Colonel, Ranter-
go-round or Slobberhannes? Perhaps
the most surprised reader would be the
original Edmond Hoyle, who first pub-
lished his book in 1742,-and died in
1769. His name has been invoked
throughout the last two centuries, usually
over some game of which he had never
heard —his own writings laid-down rules
for three card-games only—Whist
(ancestor of all modern Bridge-games),
Piquet and Quadrille.
♦+♦ ♦+♦ *x*
“Lorna Doone”: A friend took her
grandchild to the cemetery. “What’s
this place, Nana?” Said Grannie, “Just
a garden, dear.” “What are the stones
for?” “To show where people who have
■%iied are buried in the ground.” Silence
for awhile, then she espied a gardener on
his knees weeding. “Look, Nana, quickly,
one of them is getting up!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“B. A. Ker”: The majority of married
women who pay to be taught to drive
are wives of car-drivers ; and they all
give the same reason for going to a
school: “I could never learn from my
husband —he just picked and roared and
nagged at me till I just didn’t know
what I was doing.” But the husband’s
side just as invariably goes: “It was
hopeless trying to teach the missus—
she just can’t be told.” It was this thought


that tempted me to say to a well-known
Sydney golf-pro.: “I suppose the women
learners are a bit of a headache to you.”
He seemed surprised: “No; I can
honestly say that in all the years I’ve
been teaching I’ve never struck a woman
who wasn't always nice to me.” A sly
grin, came over his face. “That's one
thing I still marvel at-the way they
can be so nice, to me, and so nasty to
their husbands.
+ *,
“Gravelsnatcher”: “Sanasi’s” diction-
ary (B. 24/9/’5B) may define “lurid” as
“This all you got ?”
pale, wan, or gloomy; but dailies have
been using it in a different sense for so
long that now it has their meaning. But
I’m wondering at the outcome of the
press attempt to press its -own meaning
into “exotic,” as in a Perth paper's
report of scientists who’d gone up
through the North-west and Kimberleys
looking for “exotic” fauna and flora.
♦J« *!♦
“Cadam”: The hotel-licensee threw the
dog’s meat on the kitchen floor and in-
formed the cook she would have to clean
the floor when the dog finished its dinner.
Cook refused and simultaneously gave
notice; and the licensee sacked her.
Several hours later, the cook was happy
in the licensee’s pub after celebrating
giving notice, while in the opposition pub
up the road the licensee was also happy
after celebrating sacking the cook.
Through having got slightly involved in
the tail of Helen the typhoon, s.s.
Orsova was 24 hours late leaving Yoko-
hama, so that only 500, and not 5000,
schoolchildren came down to wave fare-
well. As the police band Waltzed Matilda
like nobody’s business and the gangway
girl _ had a parcel ’ of lacquer . b owls left
by error “j n Mikimoto shop by lady in
blue hat and gentleman with bard (bald)
head.” The other was a low-looking taxi-
driver hellbent on reparation. His Aussie
passenger, in mistake for a 100-yen bill,
had given him a 1000.—“Sevenelms.”
“0.W.W.”: The variety show “Maori,”
with 25 top Maori artists, has been
booked by J. C. Williamsons, Ltd., for
an Australian tour. N.Z. critics predict
it should become as popular with Aus-
tralian audiences as “The Kiwis” did in
early post-war years.
❖ +♦♦ ♦>
“Blanc”: John Fountain’s reminiscent
account of the “School by the
River” recalls to me an incident at
the Principal’s residence before Hind-
marsh occupied it. Ernie Breakwell
really founded Yanco Agricultural High
School, and won, among other successes,
departmental appreciation on his wonder-
ful lawns, which were kept in order by
boys as a punishment. Breakwell’s
successor, Ollie Gardiner, couldn’t find
boys deserving punishment, and men-
tioned it when Breakwell and I were
having afternoon-tea with him and his
wife. About four-o'clock Breakwell asked
to be excused and disappeared at the
bottom of the residence garden. Five
minutes later he returned with seven
boys and called Ollie out. “Here you
are, Mr. Gardiner, seven boys to do the
lawns. They were stealing your grapes! ”
Ernie knew the time to collect such lawn-
mowers.
?+ ♦J*
“Miss M.”: Although private academies
for females in N.S.W. and Vic. have been
“Ladies’ Colleges” (B. 24/9/’5B) since
their foundation, sister-schools in Qld.
have always been “Girls’ Colleges.”
Bananalanders realised from the begin-
ning that one can set one’s sights too
high—still, ’tis better to have loved and
lost ...
>;«
“Ceg”: Tobacco-smoking may or may
not induce lung cancer —I’m too fond of
cigarettes to inquire fully into the ques-
tion —but Samuel Pepys records that on
a journey to Islington by coach one of
the horses fell sick of the staggers,, and
that when the coachman had cut his
tongue and tail to make him bleed, and
the horse continued shaking as though
with the ague, the coachman blew some
tobacco up his nose, upon which the
horse sneezed and grew well. That, said
Mr. Pepys, who knew not Randwick
nor Flemington, was one of the strangest
things of a horse he had ever observed.
Don’t know whether horses in Australia
suffer from the staggers, but the many
car-drivers who do might take a hint
on a pinch of snuff from Mr. Pepys.
THIS PARADISE
“A United Nations report says that women
of a tribe in a remote part of Nyasaland are
so protective of their menfolk they won’t allow
them to work. The men treat them harshly,
but the wives don’t seem to resent it.”
Along the Zambesi,
While dames do the yakka
The bucks take it easy,
Just chewin’ terbacca
And lolling in beaut inactivity.
For gently relaxing,
Conserving corpuscles,
While wives do the axeifig
And get bigger muscles
They have a peculiar proclivity.
You couldn’t expect them
To watch women toiling —
The sun might affect them
It being near boiling ;
Besides, it would keep them awake
too much.
While wives are enjoying
The straining and sweating,
The bucks find annoying
The noise it’s begetting
It’s wearying, this; they can’t take
too much !
These tribeswomen, peerless
As husband-supporters
You’d think would be fearless,
Domestic rip-snorters.
You’re wrong. They've one fear,
really frightening:
That the buck, in his languor,
Might fail in his duty
Of blazing in anger
Quite often at cutie
And giving her eye a good whitening!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


Wonderful What You Can Do
Some of My Inventions
By RONALD McCUAIG
In the exuberance of filling-out my
first and only entry-form for V/ho’s
Who in Australia (the office held,
the form said prophetically, was the
entitling factor) I put among my
recreations: Inventions. Maybe this
should have been qualified a little ; the
inventions I invent have been already
invented ; my contribution is merely to
invent them again, trying not to cheat.
Take my Meccano clock.
There is a brilliant little clock in one
of the model-books ; it is driven by a
standard clockwork motor, but it does
demonstrate the reduction of minutes to
hours by gear-wheels, and its escapement,
with teeth of metal-strip bolted to a
plate-wheel about 20 times the size of
an ordinary escapement-wheel, has one
of the prettiest movements you’ve ever
seen. It went for only 2\ hours, so I
got two slow, high-power clockwork
motors, geared them to the same shaft,
and by carefully lining-up the whole
movement got it to run 25 hours.
But it still wasn’t a complete clock-
movement ; besides, it wasn't my clock,
it was theirs. So I invented the
grandfather-clock.
My innocence at this stage would have
astonished students of elementary
physics: I didn’t know whether gears
should be added or multiplied. By
setting-up a train of gears and counting
the revolutions made at one end by one
turn of the other end I established the
important engineering principle of Multi-
plication of Ratios ; also that my toy
wheels provided ratios of one-to-one,
one-to-two (25 teeth to 50), one-to-three
(19:57), one-to-five (19:95), and one-to-
seven (19:133) —so that if you set-up a
gearing of two driving two driving three,
you get 12, which enables the hour-hand
to turn once for every 12 turns of the
minute-hand ; so all the necessary gears
were there.
I had begun to suspect that the smaller
the escapement-wheel, and the more
numerous its teeth, the more efficient it
would be. But only one Meccano wheel
remotely resembles an escapement-wheel;
that is the ratchet-wheel, and experiments
with this showed that its teeth were too
fine and Meccano spindle-tolerance too
great—the pallets of the escapement
slipped on it continually. So I tried
sprocket-wheels, preferring a 3in. wheel
because it has 56 teeth, so that instead
of turning several times a minute and
running-down the weight in a day or so,
it —as it turned-out —made two minutes
out of one revolution of 56 beats to the
minute, governed by a pendulum of
joined Ift. spindles about a yard long;
and ran 5y days. When I tried to gear
it higher, to run the full eight days, it
stopped—l think because the Meccano
spindle, being so thick in comparison
with clock-spindles, caused too much
friction.
Having run-up a movement, and then
taken it down and put it together again
because the hands had been going round
in the wrong direction, I suspended it
between chairs, and tried, by throwing
fishing-sinkers into a tin can suspended
from the driving-axle, to assess the
weight needed to drive it. Because of
“And if it's too effective just rub a little onion
behind one ear.”
the heavy friction, I soon exhausted my
sinkers and finally got it moving by
adding a copy of the Concise Oxford
Dictionary and an Army boot: ulti-
mately I used a bit of lead 3in. square
by 9in. long. A more happy surprise
to me was that a 6ft. tower of Meccano
girders would take this weight—though
I couldn’t get rid of the factor of twist;
but, after all, people don’t go round
twisting grandfather-clocks.
I wanted a going-clock, with a con-
tinuous chain that could be hauled-on
to pull the weight up while the clock
still went; and it may surprise you, as
it surprised me, that the 10ft. of Meccano
chain I used took all that weight of lead
for the two years the clock was up.
For most of that time the clock was
within half-a-minute of A.B.C. time every
24 hours. And it was all my invention,
less the face, with Roman numerals in
green strip on red plate, which I took
over from the book of directions. I
know the sprocket-wheel escapement was
illegal, having just ordinary teeth, but
it worked. If 1 were to build
another grandfather-clock I
think I would try a small
circular-saw blade as an
escapement-wheel—the teeth
look like having just the
right shape, and with all
those teeth you could prob-
ably run a Meccano clock
for a month on one winding.
For its two years of life
my grandfather-clock was
Exhibit Ain our flat; then
some visiting plumber or
painter or electrician (they
used to tell their friends to
be sure to see it) told my
wife it was the most interest-
ing thing in the place. She
had her own ideas on this
point ; she began to find
the clock was taking up too
much room . . .
TlS7hen, in James Joyce’s
brother’s autobio-
graphy, their old drunken
father curses their dying
mother, it is probably be-
cause, as with Macbeth say-
ing his wife should have
died hereafter, the world
had grown too much for
them: it was even so that
I rose from the breakfast-
table in a rage, after my
wife had said a few more
words about the clock, and
kicked the clock over, dis-
mantling.in hot blood what
I hadn’t the heart to pull
down in cold.
But the clock was avenged. Within a
few months a piece of wood came into
my hands, about 2in. by Ift. by 2ft.
Obviously it was the ideal base for a
machine that would run a strip of film,
such as my children were burning on
cracker-night, past a light, and throw
pictures on a wall so that people in them
would seem to move.
T was spurred-on to this invention by
the discovery that the series of slots
down each side of this strip of film would
(Continued on page 44)


POLTICAL POINTS
Just as it seemed that America had at
last produced something that was really
out of this world, the darned thing turned
round and headed for home.
• •
Although the Cape Canaveral rocket
didn't go into orbit around the moon
and didn’t escape into outer space the
U.S. achievement is nevertheless a
remarkable one. Apparently the Pioneer
zoomed something like 70,000 miles out
into space before being pulled back by
Mother Earth’s gravitational apron-
strings. There can be little doubt now
that it is only a matter of time before
the U.S. rocketeers can spin a missile
round the moon or send one on a journey
to the infinite.
e •
Evatt will deliver his policy-speech in
Sydney tonight (Wednesday). On TV on
Sunday evening he said Labor wouldn’t
make socialisation an issue at the elec-
tion—not that anyone thought he would.
After all, his aim is to win the election,
not to throw it away before he starts.
• •
If Billy Sheahan insists on wearing all
the caps that fit him he’ll need a few
more heads.
• ®
It’s to be hoped that the Sydney coves
that Lord Mayor Jensen plans to send
holidaying in San Francisco under his
“neighboring-city” plan create a better
impression on the other side of the Pacific
than the Sydney coves (also called
“Sydney ducks”) who went to ’Frisco in
the Californian gold-rush over a century
ago. Several of these were lynched—and
apparently deserved it.
• •
A paternal solicitude for Victorian
bread-manufacturers is apparently stimu-
lated periodically among the Labor and
Country parties ; it has become notice-
able again since Premier Bolte announced
last month that a bill for better bread
would be introduced, despite the failure
of the last attempt in the last Parliament.
Master-bakers recently gave a display in
North Melbourne ; it was opened not by
a State Minister but the member for far-
off Gippsland South, Sir Herbert Hyland,
leader of the Country party. Then Labor-
leader Stoneham took time off in a
censure-debate to put in a word against
the master-bakers’ competitors.
o «
H. A. Bruce, who died in Canberra on
Saturday at 74, had been in hospital
there since he collapsed in Parliament
on September 30. He had been Labor
M.H.R. for Leichhardt (Q.) since 1951,
and before that was M.L.A. for the
Kennedy and Tableland seats in the
Queensland Parliament from 1923 to
1950 ; he was Queensland Minister for
Public Works for 15 years and Minister
for Education for six years.
• •
P. A. Wright, president of the New
England New State Movement, has
expressed disappointment at Queensland
Premier Nicklin’s reaction to the report
of the Federal Constitution Review Com-
mittee. He says the report has cleared
the way for the establishment of North
Queensland and Central Queensland as
separate States; petitions presented to
the Queensland Government have shown
there is strong local support for self-
government, and nothing in the report
affects the right of a State Parliament to
establish a new State if it wishes to do
so. Yet Nicklin says he will wait to
see whether the report is implemented.
At the weekend N. S. Wales Country-
party leader Davis Hughes said at a
meeting near Glen Innes that the Liberal
and Country parties would, if returned
at the next N. S. Wales election, hold a
referendum on a new State in northern
N. S. Wales. Nicklin was saying some-
thing very similar 18 months ago.
• •
Goulburn wool-sales—boycotted by
the N. S. Wales and Queensland Wool-
buyers’ Association—opened on Wednes-
day with 25 independent buyers bidding
and over 6000 bales on offer. An Aus-
tralian record for the season was estab-
lished on the first day when a small
parcel from Gunning was knocked-down
for 102 d. a lb.
• •
Krishna Menon, speaking at the U.N.
Assembly in New York, said that as 72
speakers had preceded him, taking up
50 hours of the Assembly’s time, it
must not be expected that he would have
very much new to say. He then gave
his views on the proposed international
police-force, Korea, Indo-China, Suez,
Portuguese Goa, Ghana, Togoland, the
Cameroons, Cyprus, Algeria, China and
Formosa, disarmament, Indonesia and
West New Guinea.
• •
TV-sales helped to boost retail sales
in the June quarter this year, according
to figures released by Commonwealth
Statistician Carver. Total retail sales
were £588.7 million, which was 3.8 per
cent, higher than in the June quarter of
last year; electrical goods (including
TV, radios and washing-machines) rose
by 15.5 per cent.
TOW-AWAY NIGHTMARE


Clyde Cameron, Labor M.H.R. for
Hindmarsh (S.A.), asked the Minister
for Primary Industry whether it was a
fact that the various egg-boards had
become egg-bound and were unable to
find a suitable outlet for their surplus
eggs. Further, was it a fact that this was
due to the action of many egg-producers
in insisting on selling their eggs inter-
state? McMahon replied: “I can’t ex-
plain the cause. I think it is probably
due to the fact that the hens will keep
on laying.”
© 0
There’ll be no easing of import-
restrictions in the new licensing-period,
commencing on December 1. Cabinet
decided on this course at a meeting just
before Parliament rose, and although the
intention was to keep it quiet until after
the election the news leaked out.
This means that the import-bill for
the four-months period commencing
December will be at the annual level of
£BOO million a year, including £l2O
million from the dollar-area. Cabinet
was faced with a warning from the
Tariff Board that unless export-income
stepped up, heavier cuts might have to
be imposed ; on the other hand there
was pressure on the Government for a
substantial easing of the restrictions.
0 0
According to the Petroleum Informa-
tion Bureau, Australian refineries are now
producing enough aviation-turbine fuel
for local needs, and in addition they are
refining up to one-third of the 45-million
gallons of aviation-gasoline used annually
in Australia. The demand for aviation-
gasoline diminished slightly over the past
12 months because of the more wide-
spread use of turbo-prop, aircraft, which
in turn increased the demand for turbine
or jet fuel.
Consumption of jet or turbine fuel in
Australia has increased from 238,000
gallons in 1950 to 28,700,000 gallons
last year, while since 1952 local produc-
tion of this fuel had increased from
434,000 gallons to 33,800,000 gallons.
Production needs are estimated to in-
crease to 95-million gallons by 1965.
0 0
Mr. Justice Martin held a preliminary
canter of the Royal Commission on
Off-the-course Betting in Melbourne,
chiefly to permit counsel to notify
appearances, and two dark horses loomed
up out of the morning mist. The first
was a “registered press-agent” who
claimed his business was an integral part
of off-the-course betting (and who was
refused, temporarily at least, permission
to be represented); the other was the
Combined Protestant Churches. The
market showed no change in the betting.
0 0
N. S. Wales Industrial Commission has
copped two tricky assignments. It’s at
present inquiring into the Goulburn wool-
sales boycott and will shortly hold an
inquiry into “mechanisation and automa-
tion and their possible effects on
industry.”
Most Federal politicians regard them-
selves as first-rate broadcasters and
TV-stars, but Tom Playford is not
among their admirers. He told a gather-
ing in Adelaide that the broadcasting of
Federal Parliamentary proceedings had
been a “great mistake,” and that it had
led to a certain amount of showmanship
in debates; to overemphasis on the
uproar during sharp clashes of political
opinion; and to remarks which were
intended for constituents rather than for
the solving of the problems being dis-
cussed.
• «
Tax-gatherers must be in dead earnest.
Under sales-tax law a tax of 16f per cent,
is paid on hearses and 30 per cent, on
mourning-coaches. In Britain hearses
are exempt from purchase-tax, but there’s
a 60 per cent, tax on mourning-coaches.
“Hearsettes,” which carry mourners as
well as their late lamented, also pay 60
per cent. —which seems a trifle unfair.
0 0
To prove the financial status of per-
manent heads of departments, members
of boards and judges of the Supreme
and County Courts, Victorian Cabinet
has authorised rises, of £3OO a year in
most cases, totalling £35,640. They were
last increased two years ago, but since
then the public service has cut-up another
melon; the tall poppies now catch-up
again.
o ©
Senator McManus is in Westralia on
a fortnight’s “preliminary” election-tour,
and Senator Cole will deliver the D.L.P.
policy speech in Melbourne Olympic
stadium on October 20, following-up with
a rural-policy speech at on
October 29. The D.L.P. intends to trot-
out marriage-loans again as well as
improved social services, increases in
pensions, more child-endowment, tax-
reductions and (probably) the abolition
of the payroll-tax.
0 0
“Ex-ACT”: Last week the N.S.W.
Liberal Party held conventions of the
State’s Federal and State candidates, as
well as one gathering (informal) of both.
Federal Ministers, State leaders and
party officials discussed with the candi-
dates the hard tactics of campaigning.
The gatherings also heard discussions on
high policy and long-range national and
State development, talked out factually
and without trimmings. Questions were
blunt and to the point. Statements were
direct, and no punches w'ere pulled.
Every candidate, whether a sitting mem-
ber of long-standing or a novice in
politics, must have felt confidence in the
party’s policies as well as in its organisa-
tional efficiency aimed at electoral
victory.
0 0
“Henri Marq”: Bundaberg’s spanking-
new £2-million port is proving a headache
for the port authorities. At the official
opening 8000-odd people (the “odd”
being the visiting dignitaries, etc.)
acclaimed the first ship, the Nepena, to
load bulk-sugar there. She loaded 1600
tons and, drawing struck bottom
in the channel on her way out, and had
to return to port. After the Nepena
did get away, the bucket-dredge broke-
down, the steamers Yarrunga (3472 tons),
Yanderra (3445) and Minkara (2600)
spent days waiting for the channel to be
dredged, and then had to pull-out for
other ports —estimated costs of the
delays: £ll,OOO.
Fairymead, Qunaba and Bingera sugar-
mills are getting their old bag-sugar gear
and bags out of mothballs, as indications
are that the bulk-storage sheds will be
bursting at the seams before the mess
is tidied-up. Naturally there is a spate of
denunciations and “told you so’s” from
the wiseacres, the consensus being that
the job was rushed and opened before
it was ready, just to make a good show.
Also that the next big flooding of the
Burnett River will silt-up the whole works
again. And a few cracks are flying
about; the unkindest is calling that good
old rum-and-sugar town “Blunderberg.”
• •
Scene in the heart of Sydney, Mother
City of the Land of the Four Freedoms,
and next-door to the bureau which the
City Council has set up to tell tourists
about the country’s attractions:
A high, strong, netted fence with a
padlocked gate. Behind this a cindered
yard holding a tow-truck and some forlorn
cars. Over the footpath a huge black-
and-white sign which reads: ‘Towaway
Pound.” On the gate another notice that
towed-away vehicles may be recovered here.
Its custodian is visible, a policeman (minus
helmet), his tunic open, picking his teeth
with his right hand and jingling a bunch
of keys with his left. The ground on which
this adornment of Sydney is situated,
incidentally, is worth over £2OOO-a-foot, or
more than £lOO,OOO.
• •
Asked how many post-war migrants
would be eligible to vote at the Federal
election, Immigration Minister Downer
placed the figure at 358,200. The esti-
mated distribution among the States is:
N.S.W., 125,000; Victoria, 101,000;
Queensland, 40,000; South Australia,
36,000; Westralia, 45,000; Tasmania,
8000 ; Canberra, 2300 ; Northern Terri-
tory, 900.
The majority of these are British
migrants who are eligible to vote after
six months’ residence in Australia. Non-
British migrants are only eligible if
naturalised, and this requires at least five
years’ residence.
• •
“Baleen”: Assisted in part by the
proceeds from the current season’s catch,
Nor’-West Whaling, Ltd., has paid-off
the remaining £lOO,OOO due to the Com-
monwealth for the purchase of the
Babbage Is. station at Carnarvon (W.A.)
—a payment made eight months before
it was due. Dividends have been main-
tained, and the company now proposes
additional work and research for expan-
sion, including the possibility of under-
taking sperm-whaling during the “off”
season. To the end of September, 800
of the season’s quota of 1000 had been
caught, including an Australian one-week
record of 101 whales.


PERSONAL ITEMS
First holder of the Chair of Surgery
at Adelaide University, Professor R. P.
Jepson has for the past four years been
Professor of Surgery at Sheffield (Eng.)
University. His speciality is neuro-
vascular surgery, which has to do with
replacement of arteries.
• •
“C”: Only Westralian among the nine
elected Fellows of the Australian Insti-
tute of Agricultural Science (B. 8/10/’5B),
Professor E. J. Underwood is Dean of the
Faculty of Agriculture and Director of
the Institute of Agriculture in the
Westralian University. His first
experience of research was between 1937
and 1945, as a W.A. Department of
Agriculture officer. During those years
he did much to solve animal-nutrition
problems, and at the University he’s been
responsible for enlarging the field of
research to cover a variety of new
subjects.
• •
Pictured herewith, Keith Ballantyne,
governing-director of K. L. Ballantyne
Pty., Ltd., and the Ballantyne Export
Co., firms he founded 30 years ago. One
of our biggest exporters of dairy products,
he’s been elected to represent the dairy-
ing industry in the Australian trade-ship
Delos, which leaves on October 28 on
an intensive selling-mission to Eastern
SELLING-MISSION
countries (there’ll be representatives
aboard of primary industries, manufac-
turing, heavy industry and mining). Some
strange people, possibly the Exporters’
Federation of Sydney, have nicely timed
the departure of the Delos to miss the
Melbourne Cup.
Australian Group - Captain Hugh
Edwards, V.C., who commanded the
R.A.F. base at Habbaniyah during the
sticky situation in Iraq, has been appointed
commandant of Central Fighter Estab-
lishment, with the acting rank of air-
commodore. He served his flying cadet-
ship with the R.A.A.F., was commis-
sioned in the R.A.F. in 1935, and was
the first Australian airman to win a V.C.
in World War II —gained for a daylight
low-level attack on Bremen in 1941.
o •
Pius XII will be remembered as the
Pope to whom fell the task of leading the
way against Communism. By birth
Eugenio Pacelli, he was consecrated
Archbishop in 1917, the year of the
Russian Revolution, and was created
Cardinal Priest in 1929. A brilliant
scholar, master of at least eight languages,
he served as Secretary of State to Pius
XI and was also Prefect of the Sacred
Congregation of Extraordinary Ecclesias-
tical Affairs. He was elected Pope—the
quickest papal election in modern history
—in March, 1939.
Public interest in the brief illness pre-
ceding his death last week was clear
evidence that all sections of the com-
munity regarded him as more than the
head of his own Church. At a time when
sane leadership is essential for the sur-
vival of the world he was too great a
leader, too dynamic a personality to be
confined within any specific category.
His experiences as a diplomat spanned
two world wars. As Papal Nuncio in
Munich in 1917 he had the task of pre-
senting peace-proposals from Pope
Benedict XV to Kaiser Wilhelm. The
mission failed, the Holy See being accused
of working for the enemy, but the
Kaiser, in his memoirs, said of the
Nuncio: “Archbishop Pacelli is a dis-
tinguished, likeable man of high intelli-
gence and excellent manners, the perfect
pattern of an eminent prelate of the
Catholic Church.” Two years later
Pacelli had his first personal encounter
with Communists when his Munich
quarters were raided by Red soldiers.
Their leader stuck a revolver against
Pacelli’s chest. “Leave this house at
once!” commanded Pacelli —and they
went.
• •
“M.T.P.”: Here in Fiji we have
regretfully said good-bye to Governor
Sir Ronald Garvey, K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0.,
M.8.E., who has just retired. Born
in 1903, he came to Fiji and the
Western Pacific as a cadet in 1926 ; was
attached to the High Commissioner’s
Office, Western Pacific, 1926-27 ; District
Officer, British Solomon Islands, 1930 ;
Deputy Commissioner for the Western
Pacific, 1930 ; Assistant Secretary, 1932 ;
special duties in Tonga, 1939 ; Assistant
British Resident Commissioner, New
Hebrides, 1940 ; District Officer, Nyasa,
1942 ; attached to the Secretariat, Zomba,
1943 ; Administrator, St. Vincent, 1943 ;
Governor’s Deputy, Windward Islands,
1945 ; Acting Governor, 1946 ; Governor
and Commander-in-Chief, British Hon-
duras, 1949 ; Governor of Fiji, 1952-58.
He married a Fiji-born girl and they have
four children. His successor, Sir Kenneth
Phipson Maddocks, K.C.M.G., became
Deputy Governor of Nigeria in 1957.
T. F. BRENNEKE, manager of the
head-office of the National Bank of
Australasia in Brisbane.
“A.U.A.”: The Kalgoorlie (W.A.)
mayoralty of Dick Moore (B„ 1 /10/’5B)
is equalled by the 21-year Port Augusta
(S.A.) mayoralty of Lindsay Gordon
Riches, whose services have been com-
memorated by a recently unveiled plaque.
In addition to his municipal activities,
Mayor Riches has been an A.L.P.
Assemblyman for the district continu-
ously since 1933.
• •
In Melbourne with a crew-cut, a
friendly grin and, often, a large cigar,
Monsignor Joseph Cardijn is the founder
and.world-leader of the Young Christian
Workers’ Movement. Now aged 76, he
started as a factory-worker and later
became a priest. He launched the
Y.C.W.M. in Brussels in 1912 ; it now
has three-million members in 88 countries,
and he’s trying to get more on a world-
tour, which has already covered India and
Pakistan. Before Melbourne, he called-in
at Perth, Adelaide and Hobart.
• •
“Urarnao”: As well as Phil Carrington,
Archbishop of Quebec (B. 8/10/’5B),
another Christchurch (N.Z.) C. of E.
man has become bishop in a far country.
Born at Sumner, Christchurch, 43 years
ago, Maxwell Wiggins was educated at
Christchurch schools and Canterbury
University. After serving at various
Canterbury churches, he and his wife
sailed for Tanganyika as missionaries in
1945. Among other activities he’s been
principal of St. Philip’s Theological
College at Kongwa. Now he's been


chosen as assistant Bishop of Central
Tanganyika.
• •
R. J. Bond, assistant Under-Treasurer
in Westralia since last February, now
moves to the top post. Since he entered
the Crown Law Department as a
messenger in 1918 he has been secretary
of the State Superannuation Board
(1939), secretary of the State Housing
Commission (1944-1952), under-secretary
of the Metropolitan Water Supply
(1952-53), and Under-Secretary for Works
from 1952 until his move to the
Treasury. He’s 56.
• •
“M.F.D.” farewells a radio news-
reader :
Heath Burdock (his real name was Francis
Stanley Love), who lately passed on in Sydney,
was one of the most likeable and certainly
the least temperamental of the A.B.C.’s news-
readers during World War 11. He was so popular
that people from distant country centres used
to wait outside the studios in Market Street
(Sydney), after he’d been reading the 7 p.m.
news-bulletin, just to shake hands with him and
convey good-wishes from other country
listeners.
Some A.B.C. news-readers used to become
upset if anyone entered the studio while they
were reading the news, but nothing ruffled
Burdock. As a test of his self-control a number
of his fellow-announcers lathered his face and
shaved him one morning while he was reading
the news, but he went on as evenly and
unemotionally as if nothing had happened.
A Torres Straits pilot who came to the
A.B.C. news-room during the war said that
Burdock’s clear, strong, resonant voice “got
through” to listeners up there in almost the
worst atmospheric conditions. Burdock spent
more than a quarter of a century in broad-
casting, with the A.8.C., then with a commercial
network. Educated at Cambridge University, he
was ordained and served as a C. of E. padre
during World War I, then resigned to become
a Shakspearian actor.
• •
“X.”: Now rising 75, and going well
at that, Melbourne cartoonist Sam Wells,
one-time colleague of Low, worked on
Melbourne “Punch” and when that
paper folded tried the “Age,” to be
told: “What? Publish that rubbish!”
before he could get a drawing out of his
sample-bag. Before Hitler’s war he met
a daily deadline at the Melbourne
“Herald” for 14 years, and while holiday-
ing in England was snapped-up by the
“Daily Sketch.” For about 10 years now
he has contributed sporting-pieces twice
a week for the “Age.” One of the most
unassuming of the black-and-white
brigade, he works these days in a com-
fortable East Melbourne flat which
houses drawings of the great and the
unknown.
• •
His 400th parachute-jump brought the
total distance R.A.A.F. Warrant-officer
D. Hollands has dropped to 65 miles.
He’s chief instructor in that line of
industry at Williamtown (N.S.W.).
• •
“Bungaroo”: Maoriland has a claimant
for the world’s oldest motorist —99-year-
old Walter Reid, of Herne Bay, recently
okayed by the Police Department in
another driving-test. Reid’s first driving-
licence was issued to him in 1912, since
when he has covered over 250,000 miles
on N.Z. roads without being involved in
an accident or charged with any traffic
offence. An Irishman, he emigrated to
the Dominion in sailing-ship days.
e •
Six junior-farmers have been chosen
to visit the U.K. next year under the
sponsorship of the P. and O. Company.
The lucky ones are: P. B. Buckmaster,
of Canberra ; David Chugg, of Relbia
(Tas.); Wynn Davies, of Montville (Q.);
W. G. Combe, of Crystal Brook (S.A.);
•I. W. Smith, of Terang (Vic.), and G. K.
Hill, of Pingelly (W.A.).
© •
An Englishman, Francis Charles
Synge, has been chosen as principal of
Canterbury College (N.Z.). Graduating
from Cambridge and Wells Theological
College, he was domestic chaplain to the
Archbishop of Canterbury and deputy
priest-in-ordinary to King George VI
before going to South Africa, where he
is now dean of the George diocese. An
eminent Biblical scholar, he has had
three commentaries on the Epistles of
St. Paul already published, and there’s
a fourth on the way.
JAMES GORDON FELGATE, sec-
retary of the Adelaide Steamship Co.
Born in Sydney, educated at Brisbane
Grammar, he went to Adelaide two years
ago. A top rower in Queensland in his
youth, he’s now a golfer . He and his
singer sister Rhoda Felgate were original
members of Brisbane Rep. Theatre.
“Kanimbla”: In the week that a review
of American authoress Mary Roberts
Rinehart’s Crime Book appeared on
the Red Page (B. 24/9/’5B) came the
news of her death. Her writing brought
her a huge fortune. She wrote more
than 60 novels, mostly mysteries. Her
first success was The Circular Staircase,
published in 1908, which sold 1,250,000
copies. In 1920 she collaborated with
playwright Avery Hopwood in turning
this story into a play, “The Bat”—
financially one of the most successful
plays of the present century; it was
produced in seven different languages,
and is said to have earned her about
£4 million.
• •
Taking-over from R. B. Tennent as
Director-General of Agriculture in New
Zealand, P. W. Smallfield has been with
the department since 1921. A Bachelor
of Agriculture of Canterbury College,
he was superintendent of the Ruakura
animal-research station from 1939 to
1943.
I
9 9
At present senior air-staff officer at
Home Command h.-q., Air-commodore
G. C. Hartnell, C.8.E., goes to London
next month to take the 1959 course at
the Imperial Defence College.
• •
Horace Belshaw, Professor of
Economics at Victoria College, Welling-
ton (N.Z.), retires at the end of the
academic year, aged 60, but he will still
be available for advice. Of international
reputation as an economist, he has
visited 50 different countries and written
some useful books, especially his New
Zealand.
• •
Two schoolmasters and a banana-
grower will take charge of Australia’s
Antarctic bases next year. J. M. Becher-
vaise, a Geelong Grammar master,
knows the South well, especially Mawson,
to which he’s been reappointed (he was
there in 1955). H. O. Steirger, of Clunes
(Vic.), who teaches at Ballarat School
of Mines, will take-over at Davis, and
T. R. Harwood, who has grown bananas
at Burringbar (N.S.W.), takes command
at Macquarie Island.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 64, Colonel W. G. L. Bain,
assistant N.S.W. State-secretary of the R.S.L.
since 1943. He served with the 20th Battalion
during War I and later commanded the 17th
Battalion, C.M.F. A member of Legacy.
In England, Ted Kavanagh, 8.8. C. script-
writer of the popular “It’s That Man Again”
(ITMA). He was born at Auckland (N.Z.).
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 55, Colonel K. W. R.
Glasgow, D. 5.0., principal of Scots’ College
(Wellington) since 1938, and Dominion vice-
president of the N.Z. Returned Services
Association.
In Sydney, at 80, Professor Tasman Lovell,
first Professor of Psychology in Australia.
Dean of the Faculty of Arts at Sydney Uni.,
1938-41.
In Adelaide, at 73, Dr. Gordon Roy West.
Appointed medical superintendent of the Royal
Adelaide Hospital in 1915, he was one of the
first doctors from S.A. to be admitted as a
member of the Royal Australian College of
Physicians.
In Sydney, at 68, Norman Smith, speedcar
driver, whose Australian record of 1701 miles
in 24 hours, set in 1928, is still unbeaten.
At Lake Grace (W.A.), at 86, William R.oss
Tweeddale, one of the last of the old-time
buckjump-riders. Fifty years ago he was
with Lance Skuthorpe’s troop of rough-
riders.


ABORIGINALITIES
Queenslanders may well be proud
of that oft-quoted notice warning
motorists to beware of koalas crossing
the road —theirs, is the only State where
such a warning is likely to be necessary,
“This is your new nephew— so that makes you a monkey's uncle."
save in small corners such as that
described by Jack Lusby (B. 17/9/’5B).
Thanks to diseases and that worst of
pests, a man with a gun, the little blokes
are rarely seen outside sanctuaries in
N.S.W. and Victoria, and not at all in
South Australia. They were never found
in Tasmania and have long been extinct
in W.A. Only in the coastal area of
Queensland are they still reasonably
numerous —no thanks to the human
inhabitants, who during the last open-
season in 1927 slaughtered over half-a-
million koalas. May Mr. Lusby’s plea
for the Pittwater last-ditchers be widely
heeded—and if the Bananabenders ever
declare another open-season, may their
crops fail, their horses have Birdsville-
disease, their children be bodgies and
widgies, their houses devoured by white-
ants, their bodies smitten with emerods,
their beer taste of quinine and all their
fowls die! —“Manamoi.”
* * * »
“R.G.C.”: Traveller on a south-bound
train from Rockhampton observed a
group drinking bottled beer and singing.
The conductor at coastal stop politely
asked group to quieten down a little and
“please be careful not to use bad
language,” because several elderly women
were about to board the train. The lone
aboriginal among group, pearly teeth
flashing, asked: “Who does ya think
weeze is, mate, a bunch of niggers or
sumpin?”
* * * *
“Kelms”: The swallow hit the
telephone-wires and dropped with a
broken wing, and against my better
judgment I agreed to look after it until
its bones mended. Now I’ll nominate
the swallow as the hardest bird to feed
in captivity. It won’t accept the insects
you catch, even when you tie them to
pieces of cotton and flick them in front
of it; and I think it’s a physical impossi-
bility for a swallow to drink from a
vessel. Anyone got any suggestions for
feeding a bird that takes all its food on
the wing and drinks by skimming the
surface of a swamp or river and scooping
the water up in its beak?
* * * *
-spooks": About 4 a.m. in a W.A.
hi| , t Milk _ oh was going his rounds
when a heavy> travel . stain “ ed ,“ uck pußed .
up and j ts two weary occupants asked in
chorus: “Any garages around here, any
chance of our topping-up with a pint
of oil?” Milk-oh, looking at the dense
bush that stretched for about a mile
each way, said, “No.” The two in the
dusty truck’s front-seat went into a
huddle. “Give us two pints of milk —or
make it one,” said a surly voice. A large
hand stretched out; the milk was tipped
into the engine ; and as the truck
started-up the driver remarked to his
mate: “I guess it will do as well. Milk
has fat in it.”
• * * *
“Myall”: The diesel-motor barge
Enterprise (thus christened by Queens-
land State Treasurer Hiley with the
traditional bottle of champagne out in
mid-stream in the Brisbane River) was
formerly the Government steam-hopper
barge Pumba, and was built on the Mary
River by Walkers’, Ltd., in 1887. Used
as a mud-carrier on the Brisbane River
until 12 months ago, she has been
rebuilt ; the old engines have been
replaced with two 150 h.p. diesels, and
a giant grab, to lift gravel from the bed
of the river, has been fitted. During the
whaling-season she will service the Tan-
galooma station, taking down supplies
and returning with whale-oil and whale-
meal. That the old mud-slinger is still
seaworthy after 70 years’ service is a
passable sort of tribute to Queensland
shipbuilding.
* * * •
“Quarter Cut”: Two-bob to half-a-
brick “Macquarie” (B. 17/9/’5B) had
spirit-level strife because it was red- not
pencil- cedar. Risking dissentient brick-
bats, let’s explain that Cedrala australis,
not being the mild stay-put wood that
most people imagine it, was rarely the
material of the cement-spattered tool
that prevents buildings imitating the
Tower of Pisa.
* * * *
“D.C.”: My brother Peter’s main
weakness is a kind heart, and a story of
no money (though there was an old
jalopy), a wife, four kids and another
on the way persuaded him to give Big
Jack a job splitting posts and ring-
barking. There was an old house on
the place, and Mrs. Big Jack was thank-
ful to be settled for a while. But a
month or so was long enough for the
big fellow to have a dog tied-up at every
store in town and a positive Alsatian
at the pub. The district was getting a
bit hot, and when Peter stopped the
pub’s mouth out of his pay Big Jack
decamped in the jalopy, leaving wife
and kids behind. No money, no food,
no transport, and a baby imminent. And
Mrs. Big Jack’s people lived 500 miles
away, inter-State. Neighbors were
FOUR NAMES
There are four names as sweet as manna,
as dear as bread to me,
Trinidad, Labrador, Barbados and the
Caribbean Sea.
Burning names of burning visions,
they’ll haunt me when I’m old,
As the Gold Coasts of Africa haunt those
that starve for gold .
I entered their night-harbors like a
mighty ship afire,
And the black isles lay in beauty on my
fierce and hungry pyre,
Yet its people in the morning were but
shadows in the sea
And faery reefs by ancient rocks of
flowering ivory.
When this face you loved has withered
for death’s autumnal wind,
When neither yours, nor any other’s spear
can stay youth’s fleeing hind,
I care not, I never loved youth . . . /
only found my glee
In Trinidad, Labrador, Barbados and
the Caribbean Sea.
N.Z.
EVE LANGLEY.


THE EARLY RISER


sympathetic, but inclined towards
facetiousness. Peter felt his bachelor
position keenly, minding kids in his car
while Mrs. B.J. went into the police-
station to swear information against her
husband. For a week or so Peter’s store-
bill and butcher’s-bill increased alarm-
ingly, while he tried to get hold of Mrs.
B.J.’s people by phone, telegram and
letter. Finally he got word that she and
her family would receive a guarded
welcome from her mother, but no money
was available for fares. So Peter dug
a bit deeper, and thankfully saw the
family on to a train, Mrs. B.J. embarrass-
ingly grateful, and swearing to pay back
“Ha! You can't sack me, mister. I don't Work here. I'm visiting my fiancee.”
what he had spent. Her first instalment
came six weeks later —a note to say she
had christened her baby Peter.
* * * *
“Oscar”: That part of the Mulligan
Highway between Molloy and Mareeba
(Q.) follows the track taken by coach-
men and teamsters who plied between
Port Douglas and the Etheridge and
Hodgkinson goldfields. The lonely grave
inspected by “Wu Foo” (B. 27/8/’5B)
contains the remains of one who didn’t
survive the journey. Mareeba Rotarians,
who some years ago did that neat job
of concreting, replacing the rotting logs
in which the railings had originally been
set, were able, after careful cleaning,
to decipher some of the lettering on the
cast-iron headstone. The name George
Williams and a date in the ’eighties
became visible. The older inhabitants
of Molloy, however, insist that it was
a woman who was buried there. It is
possible that the upper and illegible part
of the inscription bore another name,
and the words “wife of.” Reference to
the Registrar’s records at Herberton
isn’t much use ; the termites have been
picnicking on those documents for over
50 years. Is there anyone who knew
George?
tieat this: N.Z. Inland Revenue blood-
-■-* hounds sent a demand to a tax-
payer for information as to why he had
failed to make a declaration of natural
increase in a line of 200 wethers he had
bought two years before!—“Ex-Quiz
King.”
% * * *
“McC.”: N.S.W. oyster-farmers had
better look to their laurels—oyster-
farmers on the north-western coast of
the Apple Isle are breeding oysters in
a big way. They have a type of
Japanese oyster which grows to nearly
twice the size of those bred off the
N.S.W. coastline. The Tasmanian
Government has granted a lease to a
private company to farm the Port Sorell
area, and if expectations are fulfilled
these Japanese oysters will be available
for export to the mainland in the not-
too-distant future. Tasmanian Liberal
member in the Federal Parliament, Aub
Luck, lately brought a bag of the
oysters across to Canberra from Tas-
mania and presented them to Primary
Industry Minister McMahon, who,
always cautious, gave them to his staff
to sample. Their report declared them
“scrumptious.”
* * * *
“Wommadoo”: Australia’s biggest
known deposits of that abundant element
bauxite, mentioned by “Bass” (B.
3/9/’5B), are around Ashford, on
N.S.W.’s mineral-rich north-west slopes.
The deposits have not been exploited
commercially, though the district also
possesses good black bituminous coal
and plenty of the limestone needed for
alumina refining. Ashford also produces
phosphates, from bat-guano in the
Ashford Caves, where small-scale work-
ing has been carried on since 1916. The
average grade is 17.1 per cent, tri-calcium
phosphate, but composition of the
deposits is so variable that large-scale
working has not been attempted. Better
use is being made of the coal-seams,
from which coal is extracted by opencut
to feed the twin-turbine steam-generator
completed this year by the North and
North-west Local Government Associa-
tion. The electricity produced is fed into
the ever-increasing network of the North-
west County Council’s rural electricity
scheme.
* * * *
“Stanus”: Conversion of part of that
giant cedar (B. 24/9/’5B) gave Kempsey
(N.S.W.) residents an opportunity to see
a comparison of old and modern
methods. From a 12ft.-butt log Alex and
William Kyle, both in their seventies,
pitsawed a slab sft. wide and 4in. thick.
The log. was then stood on end, a
scaffolding built around it, and Tom
Barmon and Jack Evans used a two-man
petrol-driven chain-saw to cut another
plank of similar dimensions. One plank
will be made into a table for the Country-
party rooms at Parliament House,
Sydney-; the other is for the Clarence
River Historical Society.
* * * *
“Durian”: Orchids to “Bert the Car-
penter” (B. 17 /9 / ’5B) for his thesis on
the tools of toxophily; but his closing
pontification on how the wood for
musical-instruments must be seasoned
aligns him as a grandson of the man who
just knew that an iron ship would never
float. In 1904 I saw my first timber-
kiln at Wertheim and Son, Richmond
(Vic.), piano-manufacturers, where bass-
wood was being dried for that exacting
utilisation the curved keyboard cover which
is the core of applied walnut-veneer . . .
The first violin-maker I ever met had
humped a hundredweight of split
mountain-spruce billets down from the
9000 ft. timber-line of Mt. Shasta. They
were for “bellies,” which require out-
standing resonance plus glueing quality,
and he was stacking them into a kiln
operated by the McLoud River Lumber
Co., California.
TO A TOADFISH
An infinity of fishy forms
And you must choose the ludicrous one
That makes you an object of fun.
From all the shoals and swarms
That fill the sea, contempt sets you aside:
Any fish caught by a child
Becomes thereby an object of pride—
But you are merely a toy to be mauled.
How quickly the group gathered to see
The fish landed, disperse
At the terse
“It’s only a toad.” Only a toad. Only.
The angler has no triumph
And yet to you it’s death.
All fish look foolish dying dry
With gaping mouth and popping eye
But you, inflated and gasping asthmati-
cally,
Pass out most ludicrously
With only the bang of your self exploding
To mark you die.
Q.
R. G. HAY.


IN their nesting-season I’ve watched
pink-and-grey galahs strip bark off
trees so' that the trunks were completely
ringbarked over an area of about 18in.,
and this section the birds would polish
by fluttering against it with their wings.
The nest is usually found in a hole some
6ft. above the scarfed area. Recently I
saw an old-man goanna climb a tree
until it reached the polished bit, but it
either wouldn’t or couldn’t get past it.
Is that ringbarking the galah’s first line
of defence? —“Van.”
* * * *
“Spin”: Father Long’s nugget (B.
24/9/’5B) didn’t contain a speck of gold.
It was a piece of iron, shaped roughly
like a sickle, and painted gold by a
couple of practical jokesters ; and it was
Father Long’s bad luck to be the first
inexperienced man they struck as they
looked for a victim. It was the jokesters
good luck that the priest respected his
promise not to divulge their identities —
gold and places where you might find
it weren’t subjects to be trifled with in
those days.
* v. * * *
“Wommadoo”: Locality-names used
in various States are confusing to
strangers. Starting from the approxi-
mate geographical centre of the State
concerned, N.S.W.’s North West is really
north-east and its Central West south-
east. Queensland’s South West is south-
east and much of its Central West is
east, while plain West is south. South
Australia’s South East is indeed south-
east, but so is its Mid North, though
much closer to centre. The areas are
named, of course, not from their posi-
tions on the maps but from their
approximate (very in some cases) direc-
tion from their State capital. Perhaps
another argument in favor of decen-
tralisation.
SINS OF A GLOSSARY
Reviewers of The Penguin Book of
Australian Verse enjoyed themselves
(as is usual with an anthology) in approv-
ing most of the entries and deploring
certain omissions ; but, curiously, no one
seems to have given critical attention to
the glossary.
A novelty in an anthology, this
explanatory list appears to have been
included for the information (and maybe
the spiritual uplift) of readers in other
countries, and that apparent fact makes
more lamentable the number of errors
it contains. Here are some of the
instances in which the compiler has got
off the rails:
Angophora is not “a type of gum-tree.” Tffiis
genus may be the ancestor of the eucalypts, b'ut
(and in spite of the fact that A. costata is
sometimes termed “Sydney red-gum”) there is
an important distinction between the two
groups. .
Billabong is not “a pool close to a nver.
It’s a deviation or branch of a stream that
usually contains pools, but only occasionally
runs.
Buckley’s Chance is not now “supposed to
allude to an escaped convict who lived with
native tribes for many years,” The term is a
play on the name of a Melbourne firm, Buckley
and Nunn. Anyway, why not have given wild-
Whiteman Buckley’s period with the abos.
(1803-35)?
Bunya is something more than the name of
“a seed-bearing tree.” Strictly bunya-bunya, it’s
the abo. term for a large and decorative pine
C Araucaria bidwillii), native only to Queensland.
Also, the cone isn’t “valued for its food,” but
as food.
Eureka was certainly not “the only armed
civil conflict to occur on Australian soil.”
Fisher’s Ghost was not “seen many years
ago on a bridge over a creek near Campbell-
"A DRY vermouth, please !”
town, N.5.W.,” but was supposed to have
been seen on sliprails. “Many years ago” could
easily have been omitted in favor of the date,
1826.
Ghost Gum deserves something better than
“a type of gum-tree with a white stem.” Why
not have said: “A eucalypt (£. papuana ) of
Central Australia, notable for its graceful,
smooth, pale-colored trunk”?
Grass-tree isn’t merely “a primitive tree
growing to a height of four to eight feet.” It
is a purely Australian genus ( Xanthorrhaea ) of
16 species, some of which rise to 12ft., and
it’s distinguished for its grass-like base, long
flower-stem, and resinous trunk.
Ned Kelly, “still a traditional hero,” might
well have been given a date —he went off in
November, 1880.
Kurrajong, emphatically, should not have
been subjected to the vague and erroneous
repetition, “a type of gum-tree.” A sturdy,
umbrageous, ornamental tree (with leaves having
fodder-value), it belongs to a family very
different from the eucalypts and to the genus
Brachychiton. The name kurrajong is
aboriginal. .
Lasseter (initials not given) certainly disap-
peared in Central Australia —the year, not
stated, was 1930 —but to say that he “has
not been heard of since” is misleading. He
has, of course, been “heard of” lots of times,
and his bones have been recovered and re-
interred at Alice Springs.
Leichhardt’s first journey, “from Queensland
to Port Essington,” actually started from Bris-
bane (Queensland is quite a large area!). Also,
th'e German explorer didn’t vanish on his
second expedition b'ut on the third one. (Again,
here, dates are lacking.)
New Holland was the Dutch, rather than
the “old,” name bestowed on Australia; and
to say that it “lingered for some years” is
irritatingly vague.
Paperbark may be (sometimes) “a large tree
growing near watercourses,” but it should have
been identified as a tea-tree, which name has a
separate entry.
Squatter, as a term, wasn’t necessarily applied
to “a wealthy pastoralist with a considerable
holding.” It referred basically to a man who
took-up unoccupied land without official
sanction.
Sundowner is not well described as “a swag-
man, one who'tramps the track until the sun
goes down.” Sundowner and swagman were
distinct; the former (now rare) was so-called
because he approached homesteads at sun-
down.
Tennant Creek may be “celebrated,” but
how (lacking any explanation) is the overseas
reader to know why?
Van Diemen’s Land gets only “the early
name for Tasmania.” Surely this could have
read: “A name applied in honor of a Governor-
General of the East Indies in 1642, by Abel
Tasman, Dutch voyager, to the island later
termed Tasmania; it was not officially discarded
until 1855”?
Wattle is certainly not an “Australian mis-
nomer for the yellow-flowering mimosa.” Aus-
tralia’s wattles belong to the genus Acacia (the
related Mimosa is tropical American), and they
number in all about 600 species—a figure that
should have been given instead of the airy
statement that “there are many kinds.”
Wattle-bird is described as “the Australian
honeyeater, an attractive bird with a guttural
call.” Why “the”? —Australia has about 70
species of the honeyeater group. Incidentally,
the wattle-bird is one of the least “attractive”
of the whole batch.
Wowser is dismissed as “a narrow-minded
moralist,” but surely we might have been given
a line or two regarding the picturesque
(Australian) origin of the word?
The glossary should have carried the
symbol E. & O. E.
CISTICOLA.


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. URQUHART, M. D. PASSMORE, K. W. A. BRIDGES
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
25 O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
Telephone
BW 8171 (3 lines)
Cables & Telegrams
“EIIDECELEX,” Sydney
J. T. HARRY & DIXON
(Eric E. Dixon, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
113 Pitt St.,
Sydney
Telephone: BL 1987
Tel. Add.: “Harry Stock Exchange,” Sydney
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Future of Wool
£From D. D. MacKinnon, Pinnacles
Station, Leonora, W.A.]
UUhat does a wool-stabilisa-
tion plan mean?
The advocates of a floor-
price plan for wool disposal
contend that current prices are
below present production costs
because the world’s manufac-
turers of woollen goods have
ganged-up, through their,
buyers, into cartels to force and
keep the raw price down. They
further contend that if we im-
plement a floor-price plan,
manufacturers will be forced
to pay us on a cost -plus basis.
Doubtless these cads of
buyers do have rings or pies or
cartels and conspiracies
through which they grind the
woolgrower into the ground.
There may also be other
reasons for the fall in prices
which is so disastrous to Aus-
tralia, such as economic insta-
bility in consumer countries
and competition from synthetics
both in raw-product price and
customer-satisfaction.
If the reason for lower
prices, which may only be
temporary, is because of buyer
conspiracy, a floor-price plan
has some merit. If, on the
other hand, economic insta-
bility and competition from
synthetics are the main
reasons, then it is probable that
a floor-price plan will only
accentuate our difficulties.
The problems in connection
with any floor-price plan are
many and serious. When the
cost of producing a pound of
wool varies so greatly, by
whom, and by what means, is
a floor-price to be decided
upon?
When the plan begins to
operate, who will buy the
passed-in wool? Who can
finance, so far as Australia is
concerned, so colossal an enter-
prise? Answer: the Govern-
ment (that’s us, the taxpayers).
If the world should decide
not to pay the floor-price for,
say, half our wool we will then
be the holders of half a clip-
worth, say £l5O million, and
with another clip coming up for
with synthetics making hay
meanwhile?
Years ago Mr. Wentworth
produced a long and erudite
report which showed quite
clearly that synthetics had
overtaken wool, and that the
time had come for a drastic
curtailment in its production in
Australia. If by our refusal to
meet the present market and by
the implementation of a floor-
price scheme, the woolgrowing
industry falls into the inept
hands of the Government’s
bureaucrats we will find that:
Mr. Wentworth’s dismal prog-
nostications were written 20
years too soon.
Money and Brains
Two men who have had
■*- spectacular careers in the
retail trade, Oswald O’Grady
and Kurt Geiger, are to link
their fortunes by the merger of
Hicks Atkinson, Ltd., Mel-
bourne’s oldest retailer, with
Reid-Murray Holdings, Ltd.,
for an exchange of shares worth
(at Reid-Murray’s then current
price of around 125.) £1.78
million to Hicks’ share- and
note-holders.
With Hicks, recently taken
over by Geiger and converted
from a conservative shop to a
gay, prosperous and depart-
mentalised store, goes the
Mascot Shoes chain. Geiger’s
fellow-directors have accepted
the offer for their own shares
and recommended acceptance
by the shareholders.
Kurt Geiger is regarded in
Melbourne as very close to a
genius in high-class retailing ;
the link with Reid Murray’s
will free him from the financial
decisions of the ambitious and
expensive rebuilding which
will take Hicks from Collins
Street over Little Collins to
Bourke Street.
Oswald O’Grady will remain
managing-director of Reid-
Murray’s, and Geiger will be
a director. O’Grady, a one-
time champion Aussie Rules
footballer, left a bank in
Adelaide in the depression
to go into cash-orders;
sale. What will that feel
likehe now controls a business
with an annual turnover of
more than £25 million in
retail and wholesale goods. The
company has expanded quickly,
and the current merger will
give it 100 shop-outlets.
Reid-Murray’s have offered
four ss. ords. for each five
Hicks ss. shares; and two ss.
ords., plus Is. cash, for each
£1 Hicks convertible note.
“And while you Were away we put the office-boy
in charge. ...”
Politics and Petroleum
[From e. Owen]
Tf that usually very astute
businessman Sir Thomas
Playford, following on his visit
to Innamincka, is correctly
reported as stating in Adelaide
on September 23: “There is a
major structure of very great
importance in the area. If oil
is present, the area will be a
major oilfield,” he must have
overlooked the unfortunate
case-history of Rough Range.
If the S.A. Premier’s state-
ment was prompted by his tech-
nical advisers, they must accept
responsibility for advice which
can be described only as mis-
leading.
Unjustified optimism has
been a marked characteristic of
reports dealing with the search
for oil in South Australia, and
it is unfortunate that the
petroleum prospects of the
north-east corner of the State
should have again been likened
to those of the Sahara in a
paper read before a responsible
scientific society in Adelaide,
Such a comparison ignores the
unique character of the
geological history of the Aus-
tralian mainland.
THE KEY TO THE KIMBERLEYS
By MALCOLM WALLACE
Consideration of the prob-
lems of development of
the north and north-west of
Western* Australia gives plenty
of room for thought.
The whole area, north of the
26th parallel to the tip of the
Kimberleys, is so vast an
expanse, and the individual
holdings are so large, while the
amount of money available for
the necessary work is so
limited, that it is a matter of
the greatest difficulty for any-
one to decide as to what par-
ticular projects should be
undertaken,
There are so many different
things to be done in so many
different places,' all of them
important and some of them
more or less urgent, and so
little with which to do them,
The Federal Government
recognised the difficulties of
the State when it made a


: '"y
* VJ9
'y a?
Let A.N.Z. BANK make aj[ your
travel arrangements
Their travel experts will be happy to attend to sea and air bookings,
accommodation, assist you with tax arrangements, passport and visas
in short, every detail of your trip. Travel abroad with the knowledge
that everything is handled reliably through A.N.Z. BANK.
Money for Travel
Whenever you travel, abroad, interstate or on a country trip, carry
A.N.Z. BANK Travellers’ Cheques. Readily encashable, they are the
safest, most convenient way of carrying money. In the event of loss,
the amount is promptly refunded in full by the Bank.
A.N.Z. Travel Service is available through every
Branch of
ANZ497.2458
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
special grant last year of
£2,500,000 for development
works north of the 26th
parallel.
This amount is to be spread
over five years at the rate of
£500,000 a year, and it
obviously won’t go very far.
The general opinion about
the grant is that it is at least a
start, and gives some hope for
more generosity in the future,
provided that Canberra is satis-
fied that it is wisely invested.
Canberra need have little
concern on that score: the
record of the West Australian
Governments —of either poli-
tical color—in developing this
territory is nothing of which
they need be ashamed.
[The W.A. Government is
also now allotting extra funds
for development of the nor’-
west.]
Western Australia has a
territory covering a million
square miles and a population
of about 700,000.
While this may be an argu-
ment for the creation of an
additional State or States in
the north of Australia, it is
obviously quite clear that the
proper development of the
State out of its own resources
is a financial impossibility.
Visits of V.l.P’s.
The visits of the Governor-
General, the Prime Minister
and other interested people to
the north-west have done much
to raise hopes for its future
prospects.
All those people had heard
much about that area, but now
they have seen for themselves,
and they have been generous
in their appreciation of its
possibilities.
For the first time it looks
as though the problems are
understood and that something
may be done to make- a serious
approach to their solution.
That all the necessary works
would be tackled at once and
brought to a conclusion is too
much to expect; there are too
many of ' them, too many
interests to be considered and
they are too far apart.
The scattered inhabitants of
the north are far from unani-
mous as to what is required,
which is natural enough as
each is primarily concerned
with what will prove of the
most immediate benefit to
himself.
One man demands roads,
another air-transport for stock,
or landing - grounds, while
others require new and
improved ports, irrigation,
help in the elimination of pests,
taxation - relief or inland
slaughtering-facilities.
These are only a few of the
general and urgent needs, but,
taken together, it is obvious
that the cost of providing them
all, and all at once, would be
far above the most generous
estimate of any further assist-
ance that Canberra may supply
—and for which we confidently
hope.
The danger of such a posi-
tion is that too many under-
takings may be started which
it would not be possible to
finish ; that an attempt would
be made to satisfy too many
diverse interests at the same
time and there would be no
satisfactory result.
Transport Vital
Those who, from their per-
sonal or occupational interests,
are well acquainted with the
north-west and who periodi-
cally travel its length and
breadth are unanimous in their
opinion that the first thing to
be done is to provide for trans-
port, by air, sea and road.
It is pointed out that it is
very little use for the owners
to improve a pastoral holding
by fencing, improvement of
pastures and additional water-
ing-points so as to increase the
carrying-capacity if they are
unable to market the stock at
the proper age and in the
proper condition.
Under the present condi-
tions, cattle which may be fat
and ready for a good market-
demand at 2} to 3 years of
age are not able to stand up
to the rigors of a. droving-trip
which may be hundreds of
miles, and so have to be car-
ried for another two years or


DAVIS, ROTHWELL & CO.
(Incorporating Headlam, Hewson & Co.)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange .)
117 Pitt Street, Sydney. 110 Lords Place, Orange.
BL 1853 (3 lines) Orange 4054
Telegraphic and Cable Address, “RETEP,” Sydney.
more, by which time they
arrive at the markets, even if
they are in good condition, at
an age when they meet only a
limited and a decreasing
demand.
Furthermore, by having to
carry cattle for so long, the
station’s potential turnover is
probably halved.
Air Beef Scheme
The introduction of trans-
port by road-train and the Air
Beef scheme has started means
of treating cattle or of getting
them to market when they are
at the most suitable stage.
These projects have already
proved their value, and the
Glenroy Air Beef scheme and
the annual movement of cattle
from Anna Plains Station to
the Midland Junction markets
are doing pioneering work of
the utmost value.
Apart from these outlets, the
State Shipping Service takes
about 8000 head of cattle a
year from north-west ports to
Robbs Jetty, where, because of
quarantine regulations, they
must be slaughtered as soon as
they are sold, regardless of
condition.
A trade has also been started
in the export of live cattle to
the Philippines, both for local
consumption and for breeding-
purposes.
This trade shows consider-
able promise for the future, but
at the present is only in its
infancy.
These are the means of
marketing cattle from the
Kimberleys, in addition to the
Wyndham meat-works, where
cattle arrive after long droving-
trips and the still-longer trek
from Billiluna Station down
the Canning stock-route to
Meekatharra.
Lack of proper communica-
tions hampers all desirable
development.
Tidal Ports
Most of the Air Beef is sold
overseas, but overseas ship-
owners are wary of sending
their vessels to ports where the
rise and fall of the tide can be
as”much as 34ft.; as it is at
Derby, and the same difficulty
occurs in the shipment of live
cattle to the Philippines.
Road-trains are not likely to
increase in any numbers until
there are reasonable roads for
them to run on: the very high
cost of maintenance will pro-
hibit that.
Road-train transport will be
necessary if additional air-beef
projects are to be undertaken.
These offer the best solution
of the treatment of cattle at
the right age and condition,
but to be run on a proper scale
it will be necessary to bring
cattle in from outlying stations
in the district by road-train,
and that cannot be done when
there are. no roads.
Mining Prospects
Cattle and sheep interests are
not the only ones to be con-
sidered in the north-west.
It is generally recognised
among mining men that most
of this country has never been
properly prospected and that
its mineral riches are still
unproved.
Gold is not the only, nor
the principal, metal occurring
in the pastoral areas.
The success of the asbestos-
mine at Wittenoom Gorge, the
prospects of the manganese
deposits near Nullagine at
present being sampled under
option to large overseas
interests, and the reservations
recently granted for bauxite
deposits over large areas of
the North Kimberleys may be
of great developmental value.
The requirements of a big
mining-show are to some
extent the same as those of a
pastoralist: they require water
and decent transport.
The cost of transport may
make all the difference between
the success and failure of a
mining proposition in such out-
lying areas where costs are in
any case much higher than
anywhere else.
Much of our pastoral
country has been opened-up by
the miner and prospector.
The pastoralist followed and
outstayed them, but the pros-
pector and miner were there
first, and one of the most
promising things is the interest
being shown by wealthy
mining-corporations in the
north-west.
Living-conditions in the out-
back areas of Australia are
never ideal, but the greatest
drawbacks to any increase in
population are the loneliness
and isolation.
In any considered plan for
this vast area, the provision of
transport, by road, sea and air,
must have priority, and the
first requirement is all-weather
roads which will link the north
with its supply-base, the south.
All - the - year - round com-
munication by road, in addi-
tion to the existing links by
sea and air, is not only the
most urgent need for the north-
-west, but it could be of vital
strategic importance in the
defence of one of the most
valuable and the most vulner-
able parts of Australia.
DIE CASTERS, LIMITED
ANNUAL ADDRESS
By
John Bruce Wallace —Chairman and Managing Director
Thursday, October 9, 1958
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The year under review, 1957/58,
was our twenty-second year as a
limited Company and the financial
result from it is a good one. After
providing £52,054 for Depreciation,
the Net Profit, including dividends
from subsidiary companies, was
£149,348. Provision for Taxation
of £50,250 left available for distribu-
tion—£99,o9B. Prom this, £20,000
is transferred to Contingencies
Reserve and £15,000 to General
Reserve and the balance of New
Issue Expenses of £7,589 is written
off. This is better than we have
ever done previously, and the
improvement comes from a con-
siderable increase in turnover which
was reasonably consistently spread
over all divisions.
Continuing our established con-
servative financial policy, your
Directors recommend a final divi-
dend on ordinary stock units of
4%, making 8% for the year. This
is in line with our previous pay-
ments, and 1 remind you that our
dividends have never been less than
8% in our twenty-two years as a
limited Company.
In the Consolidated Balance Sheet
the matters of particular interest to
shareholders are: —
Stocks have been reduced by
£50,567, whilst correspondingly
overdraft has been reduced by
£67,445.
The intangible item of share
issue expenses disappears and the
net value of Fixed Assets in
Land, Buildings, Plant, etc., after
full Depreciation, has increased
by almost £50,000.
To your Reserves has been
£35,000 together
Wlt h the increase of £3,911 in the
amount carried forward in Appro-
pnation Account, has resulted m
an increase m total shareholders
funds ot £3B,yii.
The reduction in stock is mainly
due to the general betterment in
supply, particularly of overseas
materials, and increased usage of
locally produced raw materials.
Whilst we have no stated provi-
sjo£ f or the replacement of plant,
other than the usual depreciation
allowance, we need no reminder of
the ever-increasing cost of replace-
ment. If needed, your Contingen-
cies Reserve could be used for such
replacement and influenced your
Board in its decision to apply
£20,000 to this account,
As at balance time, each £1
preference unit was covered by
£6/4/7d. and ordinary 5/- stock
units by 9/2d. tangible asset
backing,
PLANT: Our four main plants,
located at Cromwell Street, Colling-
wood. Islington Street, Collingwood,
Donvale, Victoria, and Kilkenny, in
Adelaide, are in good order and,
as stated above, all contributed their
full share to our best year both
} n productivity and turnover value.
jhe Company’s policy has been,
and continues to be, one of effec-
tive and continuous maintenance
resulting in useful plant being main-
tained in excellent condition. The
only significant addition to premises
was the completion of the Pressure
Die Casting Foundry extension
which has resulted in evident
material handling improvement and
made possible flow-line production
of castings. To these gains in
space and processing can be added
the effective use of new and larger
die casting equipment, from which
castings of improved quality and
volume are being achieved.
UNSECURED REGISTERED
NOTES: It is timely to remind you
that the Company’s Note Issue
matures in November of next year,
and accordingly the period for exer-
cise of Options occurs in November
of this year.
PROSPECTS: You will be inter-
ested to know that the first three
months’ trading of the current year
is at a high level and orders in hand
indicative of a satisfactory half-
year. The 1957-58 pattern is being
maintained and all departments are
busy. In the achievement of the
year’s result, we are conscious of
the continued support of our many
friends in the industries we serve,
and also wish to state our apprecia-
tion of the good work of the team
of 840 people who constitute the
personnel of Die Casters Limited.
Accompanying your printed State-
ment of Accounts this year was a
booklet briefly setting forth your
Company’s services and activities.
We trust you found this of interest
and that front it you have a good
idea of the sort of products we
make and the services we have to
offer.
I now move that the Directors’
Report and Balance Sheet, as
presented, which include the
Directors’ recommendation regard-
ing dividends, be received and
adopted.




Missing Friend
PATRICK BYRNE otherwise known as
PATRICK SILK, last heard of in Syd-
ney in the year 1928, who was born on
6th July, 1875, near Lyndhurst, in the
State of New South Wales, a son of
the late JOHN BY'RNE and MARY
ELIZABETH BYRNE, ?iee SKEYHAN,
and a brother of the late CHARLES
BYRNE, of Mandurama, in the State
aforesaid, and also the wife and issue
(if any) of,the said PATRICK BYRNE
are hereby requested to communicate
forthwith with the undersigned when
they will hear something to their advan-
tage—MclNTOSH, McPHILLAMY &
CO., Solicitors, 103 William Street,
Bathurst.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NEVILLE KLUMP late of 17 Bel-
grave Street Manly N.S.W. —TAKE
NOTICE that JOAN GWENNYTH
KLUMP has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3224 of 1958 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 18th December 1958 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. ROBERTSON
PARKHILL'ROFE & MOFFITT, Soli-
citors, 79-81 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROSEMARY DAWSON late of 18
Richard Street Hindmarsh in the State
of South Australia.—TAKE NOTICE that
WALLACE JOHN DAWSON has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2254 of 1955
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by 12 th
December 1958 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from W. G.
CANNINGTON & CO., Solicitors for the
Petitioner, of Beaumont Street, Hamil-
ton, or from their Sydney Agents,
IRVING L. ADDISON & TATLOW, Soli-
citors, of 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THELMA MAUD KEARNS late of
Carr’s Creek via Grafton Respondent
and CECIL ELLEM late of Carr’s Creek
Junction Co-respondent.—TAKE NOTICE
that HAROLD ERNEST KEARNS has
filed a Petition No. 2336 of 1958 praying
for a Divorce from THELMA MAUD
KEARNS on the ground of her adultery
with CECIL ELLEM If you or either
of you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 10th December
1958 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from COLLINS &
POLLOCK, Post Office Chambers, Vic-
toria Street Grafton, or their City
Agents, SMITHERS WARREN & LYONS,
169 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Malko and Nikolaidi
The Fourth Tschaikowsky
Symphony, with its rare
touches of humor and its
fascinating third - movement
pizzicato treatment, was given
a smooth performance by
Malko and the Sydney Orches-
tra at the Town Hall on Satur-
day night; and all the dis-
sonances of the Suite from
Alban Berg’s opera “Lulu” —
the legacy from Schonberg’s
12-tone scale —were ground-
out in a first performance in
Australia.
Greek contralto Elena Niko-
laidi sang three rarely-heard
songs: a Mozart concert aria
of great beauty, “Ch’io mi
scordi,” to which the singer
brought a tone to match the
material; “Parto, Parto,” from
the same composer’s last
opera, “Titus,” in which she
moved up effortlessly into
mezzo-soprano territory; and
“I Have Lost My Dear One,”
from Haydn’s “Orfeo and
Eurydice,” the counterpart aria
to that of Gluck’s operatic
version of the Virgil myth.
This was a lament in excelsis,
most beautifully sung.
❖ ❖ ❖
Royal Ballet
Svetlana Beriosova’s
appearance in “Giselle” was
the main item in last week’s
Royal Ballet programmes at
Sydney Empire. There has
been a certain amount of
tinkering with the second
act, but Miss Beriosova danced
so exquisitely throughout that
it would be churlish to suggest
that one preferred any other
choreography.
Tonight (Wednesday) and
Saturday night Miss Beriosova
dances a full-length “Swan
Lake”; and “Blood Wedding”
is on the programme for
Thursday, Friday and Monday
nights. Both are highly recom-
mended.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Shifting Heart”
Having been deeply
impressed by this play a year
ago, one feels like a traitor to
have to report that this time
(its third season at Sydney
Elizabethan) it left one almost
cold.
Then, its impact, its vigorous
handling of a problem one had
felt strongly about and wanted
to see treated, made its many
faults seem unimportant; now
the faulty framework poked
through the fabric of the argu-
ment in so many places that it
was hard to see anything else.
Why? The changes in the
cast, perhaps? Hardly, because
Nita Pannell’s Momma Bianchi
was if anything more effective
in accent, appearance and
earthiness than Lynaall Bar-
bour’s ; and if Diana Bell was
only adequate as Leila Pratt,
one could color her up mentally
by recalling Neva Carr Glynn’s
fine Leila of the first season.
Had the original players
gone stale, then? Something in
that, maybe. Frank Waters’s
Clarry seemed a bit sick of it
here and there, but of course
one might have been confusing
the character’s exasperation
with the player’s. Beynon him-
self tried to add color to his
originally pale Gino by doing
a lot of gesturing and giggling,
and that didn’t help things
much. But Tom Farley’s Poppa
and Dinah Shearing's Maria
were very much as before:
thoroughly convincing.
No, the real fault is in the
play.
Beynon seems to have started
out to cut a slice of life and to
have nearly finished one act be-
fore deciding to bring the social
problem in ; so that Act Two is
like a fresh start —and a fine
one ; the best part of the play
—and Act Three is left with too
much on its hands. Things
tumble over each other
implausibly. Clarry’s change
of heart is achieved so quickly
and in such circumstances that
you doubt its worth.
Still, much of the play com-
mands respect. Poppa and
Momma Bianchi and Act Two
are the work of a real dramatist
whose heart shifts in the right
places. One only wishes that he
had set out with a clearer
notion of what he was doing.
J. A. r
♦J+
Pro Musica
All things considered, the
orchestral concert by the Pro
Musica Society, conducted by
Professor Peart in Sydney Uni-
versity’s Great Hall, was
thoroughly refreshing: did not
the programme include a
Haydn symphony, a flute (or,
rather, two-flute) concerto, a
suite by a 17th-century “great,”
and two modern works? Well,
you could hardly go wrong,
except that Philip Cannon,
who was to have played solo
piano in his “Concertino for
Piano and Strings,” was indis-
posed and unable to be there.
One would have liked to
hear some more of this gifted
young man’s output . . .
Still, there was Tommasini’s
arrangement of the Scarlatti
“Good Humored Ladies”
suite, a piquant four-movement
drawing-room number; the
third section (non presto ) might
have been a little less heavy-
handed, and the opening violin-
run in the last movement a
little less ragged. The Cima-
rosa “Concerto for Two Flutes,
with Oboes, Horns, Strings and
Harpsichord,” brought on to
the plaftorm as soloists Evan
Godfrey and Neville Fletcher:
in the first movement there was
the standard rallentando
cadence, and then the flutes
were stranded like two silver
birds, running up in thirds in
the major key, trilling, then
repeating in the minor key,
before curving and rippling
back in a shining sweep to join
with the orchestra. A nice bit
of playing, if occasionally
score-bound.
And then there was Haydn’s
103rd (“Drum-roll”) Symphony
his second-last, and more
mellow than the Haydn of the
frothy middle-period concerto.
But it’s a beauty, so it came
as a shock in the second sec-
tion ( andante ) to find the
leader’s violin out of tune. In
the sinewy menuetto the
accents were not gracefully
approached this orchestra
would do well to pay more
attention to their conductor.
After all, no audience wants
to observe, as it did here, the
sight of a conductor audibly
making “sh-h-h-h” noises in
an effort to reduce the volume!
It was the South American
Ginastera’s “Variaciones Con-
certantes,” composed in 1953,
that made the concert distinctly
an event. First performance
in Australia ; 12 variations on
a theme initially announced by
’cello, with harp plinking in
the background. Ginastera’s
sense of color easily overrides
the more obvious lure of sheer
rhythm; not that he doesn’t
use it at all —in the last varia-
tion he even introduces tempo-
changes. And there was a
richly dramatic fifth variation,
for viola; a canonic variation
for oboe and French-horn;
and a scherzo variation for
clarinet, with the theme
bobbing up spikily on the
basses and ’cellos.
Such was the response at the
conclusion that Professor Peart
cupped his hands, even before
the applause had died down,
and offered to play it again. It
says something for the force of
this particular bit of music that
the highbrow audience shouted
“Yes!” “Yes!”
A.W.


HE HAS
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —•
No Springs
The NEK} - BAR-
RERB acts like
a hand when
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, control
your hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
Write today for Free Literature
Barrere Distribution Company
Dept. 3x, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
V
IX
~‘39.
Best
Mineral
Supplement
For all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over 65%
tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed minimum of
30% phosphoric acid and 40% lime. Because there
is little protein and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do
not pay for elements available in ordinary feeding
stulfs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes the
really palatable and wholesome lick.
TRI-CAL-Os
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% Tri-olc* fkotp*'*’*
*Dlc-x fa£-&L
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O. Box 3583,
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Box 590, NEWCASTLE
• G.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
Box 712 F, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Box 758 K,
BRISBANE • G.P.O. Box H5BB, PERTH
• G.P.O. Box 533, LAUNCESTON.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
“The Matchmaker”
Thornton Wilder has a very
simple recipe for humanity—
have as much fun as you can.
In Canberra Repertory’s per-
formance of “I'he Match-
maker” he shows us with
gusto just where true joy is
to be found, and all the
miserables who want to snatch
it away from us. It must be
said that Wilder creates an
enormously funny situation in
which to preach his titbit about
all the times men can have with
the girls in a big, bad city.
Graeme Hughes looked
wondrous and kind, and
cleverly showed the connection
between innocence and
pleasure ; Joyce Goodes drew
on her considerable experience
and natural talents to create
a matchmaker; Peter Steer
had the insensitivity of the men
in power, but by not being
aware of other people on the
stage suggested that men who
have made a pile do not even
see as far as the end of their
noses ; and Frances Rose was
very effective as Mrs. Molloy,
with her controlled clutch .of
desperation at the boys who
could bring her pleasure.
Anne Godfrey Smith’s pro-
duction romped, as it should,
through this very funny play.
M. C.
Artbursts
Sydney Art
Sydney art for the week is
abstract and —with faint lights
gleaming at intervals—a bore.
In an exceedingly thin show
at the Clune Galleries various
artists are trying to do
“Musical Interpretations in
Art” —a feat which, if one
remembers rightly, Lessing
wrote the whole of the Laocoon
to prove was impossible.
Maybe it is, after all, dis-
tantly possible; but there are
no particularly dulcet noises
coming from these paintings,
except perhaps from Elwyn
Lynn’s “Hindemythical,” which
has some fluidity of design and
color. It comes as rather a
relief —though these are hardly
“musical interpretations” — to
note that Sali Herman’s ’cello
at least looks like a ’cello
(though not like much more)
and that Bob Dickerson’s
lumpy lady entitled “While the
Band Plays” looks like a
lumpy lady.
John Coburn at the Mac-
quarie Galleries conveys an
impression of more weight and
sincerity. His abstracts are the
familiar spiky kind that look
like wrought-iron or the devil
seen from odd angles, and
within his chosen limitations
it is possible to enjoy the dex-
terity and color of “Matador,”
which is ruby-red with black
spikes, and of “Prelude to
Spring,” which is green with
black spikes; but the total
effect is too barren.
Films
Sydney Film Festival
(Continued from last week)
The most satisfying film the
present reviewer saw at the
festival (mental indigestion
prevented his seeing them all)
was “Kanal,” from Poland,
which describes the last hours
of a band of Resistance fighters
at the end of the Polish up-
rising of 1944. Surrounded,
they are ordered to take to the
sewers. There, sealed down in
echoing, tunnelled darkness,
their enemies are panic, delu-
sion and a creeping madness,
all carefully cultivated by the
Nazis above. Most of them
endure it, only to be taken by
the Germans waiting at the out-
lets. It is a film taut with the
agony of the time and place,
and passionate in its love of the
life it shows being crushed.
“Born in 1921” (East
Germany - Czechoslovakia)
attacked war in yet another
way, showing the struggle to
assert ordinary human values
in a situation where nothing is
permanent and people can at
any moment be meaninglessly
parted or destroyed. In the last
weeks of the war a young Czech
is sent to Germany in a forced-
labor company, is injured in
saving a baby from a bombed
house and falls in love with a
German nurse. They are
separated, find each other again,
and her father betrays them
when they try to escape.
Clumsily handled flashbacks
loosen and disconnect the flow
of the story here and there
(perhaps the censor has been
at it, too), but even in its drag-
ging moments it has the air of
treating real situations with
conviction.
The American film-bio-
graphy of Albert Schweitzer, a
late addition to the programme,
did not match-up to its subject.
Perhaps no film could. His
greatness has too many sides
and goes too deep. This film
shook its head in solemn
admiration of most of the
doctor’s achievements and
sacrifices and managed to
present the main facts, but it
was a surface portrait only, and
was marred throughout by
coarse coloring and a fuzzy
soundtrack (the festival equip-
ment perhaps?).
Of the shorter films seen,
only a handful rose above the
ordinary: “Wedlock,” an all
too brief satire on the cliches
of the experimental film;
“Legend of the Raven,” a folk-
tale with Eskimo carvings as
the actors; and “A Chairy
Tale,” a trick-animation piece
about a chair that wants, just
once, to sit on a man.
Between sessions, if you
weren’t lying down somewhere
with your eyes closed, you
could look in at an exhibition
of posters and stills, or go to
hear Paul Rotha, the festival
guest, lecturing on film-societies
or taking part in an optimistic
symposium on the future of the
film in the television age.
J. A.
“ The Silent Enemy”
Made with the co-operation
of the R.N., this British film
tells of the exploits at Gibral-
tar which won the George
Medal for the late Lieut.-
Commander Lionel (“Buster”)
Crabbe.
Operating from Algeciras,
four miles across the straits in
Spanish Morocco, and using
powered submarine chariots,
Italian frogmen were sinking
anchored British warships and
ships in convoy with limpet-
mines and warheads slung
under the hulls. Crabbe, a
mines- and bomb - disposal
expert who had never dived
before, took to the flippers and
the oxygen-bottle with great
zest in his determination to
find an answer to the Italians.
He succeeded by unorthodox
means and ones which didn’t
always meet with the approval
of top naval brass.
The story gains from fine
underwater photography, and
there is a fight with knives
between English and Italian
frogmen on the sea-floor as
each team is striving to beat
the other to an important
satchel which has gone down
with a crashed British aircraft.
Lawrence Harvey skilfully
conveys the spirit and breezy
manner of Crabbe, and John
Clements gives a neat account
of the British admiral at Gib.
who closed one Nelsonian eye
to the two-man invasion of
Algeciras which settled the


Ities’ hash by blowing-up their
operating-base.
On Hoyts’ Circuit.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Vicious Circle”
Those who like their who-
dunits with plenty of complica-
tions and a barrelful of red-
herrings should enjoy this
well-knit, fast-moving British
film.
John Mills is smoothly effici-
ent as a Harley Street specialist
who is caught-up in a strange
concatenation of circumstances
stemming from the finding of
a murdered woman in his flat,
and who sets about ferreting-
out why he has so mysteriously
been picked-on. Climactic epi-
sodes have a good quota of
excitement.
Two excellent sketches are
thrown-in: Wilfred Hyde
White’s special Yard man who
employs a coolly serene manner
as he thinks a brace of jumps
ahead of everyone else; and
Roland Culver’s suave, polite
and gently ironic inspector.
*z* ♦*+
“The Safecracker”
Ray Milland, expert tickler
of lock-combinations, is pro-
mised a remission of eight
years of his 10-year stretch
if he accompanies a group of
commandos on a raid of Ger-
man Security h.-q. in Belgium
—he is to open a safe so that
photostat copies of a list of
Nazi agents operating in
Britain may be made, and close
it again, leaving no clue
that it had ever been open.
The first half of the film
shows the chief characters
being lured into crime by a
big-time dealer in jewellery.
There is realism in the raid
itself, which is successfully
accomplished, but a dragged-
in climax which requires
Milland to stop a German
bullet seems to have been
tacked-on as a tear-jerker.
Tension is good, and Mil-
land maintains an agreeably
cynical air throughout.
M.-G.-M. Theatres.
+J+
‘‘Madame Ou Barry”
The flippant approach has
been taken by the makers of
this French film on the favorite
of Louis XV —“The courtiers
select the King’s mistresses, and
they select the King's Ministers”
—and the variations played on
it are handled with wit,
sophisticated humor and
dialogue which comes out well
in translation.
The film is brightly paced,
and the settings and dressing
are magnificent. Martine
Carol’s Du Barry is vivacious
and beautiful, and she extracts
some first-rate comedy from
the bedchamber barneys, which
occur at the drop of a peruke.
Two other excellent perform-
ances come from Andre Luguet,
as the King, and Denis D’lnes,
as the ageing roue the Due de
Richelieu, who modestly claims
to being 1564 mistresses old.
At Sydney Savoy.
❖ ❖ *■>
“The Scamp”
In the Australian film
“Smiley” young Colin Petersen
was allowed to be a natural boy
with a flair for getting into
scrapes, and he did it very well.
In this English film he is cast
as an underprivileged kid with
a whole heap of Freudian com-
plexes, and he is called upon to
register neurotic tantrums in an
adult way while all the adults
in the film concentrate on being
childish. The result is an un-
appealing hotchpotch, and the
situations —which stem from
his running away from his
crool, no-good father to seek
sanctuary in the house of a
schoolteacher he trusts —are
stilted.
Richard Attenborough, as the
ped., and Dorothy Alison, as
his childless wife, do their best,
but it's heavy going.
On Hoyts’ Circuit.
❖ ❖
“The Steel Cage”
This three-story film about
some episodes in the life of a
noted warden of San Quentin
prison starts-off promisingly
with a touch of comedy about
a prisoner who is “railroaded”
back to clink because, as an
ex-chef,- he can titivate the
prison fodder to the delight of
his bullet-headed patrons. But
after that the film nosedives
into sentimental drama. Paul
Kelly is the warden.
Greater Union Theatres.
REICHHOLD CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
COPY OF CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS GIVEN BY MR. E. S. WOLFENDEN
TO THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING HELD Ist October, 1958.
In moving the adoption of
the Accounts and Balance
Sheet, with the Directors’
and Auditor’s reports there-
on, I have to announce that
the Company has had another
very profitable year, closing
with a record Net Profit of
£259,813.
It may be of interest to you
to realise that this latest result
has achieved in excess of
£1,000.000 Net Profit since
the formation of our Holding
Company four years ago.
The provisions for both
Depreciation and Taxation
have been increased during
the year as shown in the
report before you. Ordinary
Dividends you will be called
upon to confirm (£165,215)
total llf% for the year, as
against 11 % paid for the
previous year. You will also
notice that £90,000 is being
transferred to Reserve,
making the total in that
account, together with
the undistributed profits,
£547,735.
Trading during the past
year has been more than
maintained, and although a
greater competitive atmos-
phere was experienced, the
establishing of our two new
plants enabled us to attain a
satisfactory increase in turn-
over.
The field of industrial
chemistry is undergoing vast
changes. We are proud to
confirm that Reichhold is
keeping well abreast of this
movement, and a great deal of
our energies are directed to
research on new manufactures
and new products. The names
of many of our manufactures
and the materials sold by us
are rather technical and per-
haps beyond the understand-
ing of the layman Stock-
holder. However, we have
attempted to explain these in
a brief summary on the back
cover of the Annual Report
before you.
Your attention is drawn to
the growth in the number
of Reichhold Stockholders
during the past year. In mid-
-1957 there were approxi-
mately 2,900 Stockholders
registered, whereas at present
there are in excess of 3,600
with active trading on both
Sydney and Melbourne Stock
Exchanges. I can only feel
that this is a good thing for
the Stockholders in affording
them very ready converti-
bility of their holdings.
During the latter part of
1957 our Managing Director,
Mr. A. C. Hatrick, together
with his fellow Director, Mr.
J. W. Sadler, made a trip to
the United States of America
and whilst there visited many
of the chemical plants of our
American associated com-
pany, Reichhold Chemicals
Incorporated, U.S.A. Also
whilst in America, other
principals who export chemi-
cals to Australia were visited
and the trip back was taken
through Japan, Hong Kong
and Manila to help maintain
various contacts for the pur-
chase of raw materials and
the export of our products.
Your Directors join with
me in expressing our utmost
confidence in our future for
trading and results. We have
in our various establishments
a very fine team of execu-
tives, factory, office and sales
personnel, and we as Direc-
tors express our hearty appre-
ciation of their loyalty and
co-operation. Our plants
embody all the latest im-
provements and are in good
order and condition.
I now take pleasure in
moving the adoption of the
Balance Sheet and accounts
of the Company for the year
ended 30th June. 1958, with
the reports of the Directors
and Auditor thereon. I also
have pleasure in calling on
the Managing Director, Mr.
Hatrick, to second the
motion.


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownhills.”
Telephone: BW 1465 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street - -- -- -- -- - Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
+ STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
G. J. Coles & Co., Ltd.
Tn the estimation of the sharemarket
the ss. ords. in G. J. Coles and Co.
have, apparently, lost none of their
appeal as a growth-stock over the past
12 months. Priced at 17s. 3d. a year
ago, after shareholders had participated
in a three-for-10 bonus-issue and secured
their entitlements in a three-for-10 par-
issue, the scrip is currently selling at
around 19s. Id. to return buyers at that
price little more than 3 p.c., on the basis
of an Ilf p.c. distribution.
Behind this modest yield lie hopes of
an improvement in the div.-rate (reduced
in two steps, from 15 p.c. to Ilf p.c.
after last year’s bonus- and cash-issues),
and of further opportunities to take-up
scrip at par. However, the possible size
of any new issues, and the consequent
improvement in the overall yield, must
be viewed in relation to the sizeable
share-capital now employed by the co.
The past decade of highly-profitable
and, at times, quite spectacular progress
(covering the absorption of Gilray
Stores, Selfridges, F. & G. Stores,
Rhoades and Co., Manton and Sons and
the Burns, Philp offshoot, Penneys, Ltd.),
has taken Coles’ turnover from £B.B
million to over £49 million, while the
co.’s paid capital, £1.4 million in 1948,
reached £12.5 million early in the
current term. Expansion on this scale
has given shareholders ample oppor-
tunity to increase their stake in the
business, and, with the exception of
a one-for-five issue in 1949, the five
post-war cash-issues have all been made
at par. Bonus-scrip was sent out in 1950
and again in 1957, in the ratio of three
new shares for every 10 held in both
cases.
Following close on W'oolworths’ pur-
chase of the prosperous Queensland food-
retailer, B.C.C. Stores Holding Co., Ltd.,
Coles offered, last March, to exchange
three of its ss. stock-units for every two
ss. ords. in John Connell Dickins, Ltd.,
a Victorian-registered wholesale-grocer
and self-service retailer. The deal, which
involved the issue of scrip to a par
value of £802,500, added 54 grocery-
stores to the Coles chain to give the
group a branch-strength of over 300
stores.
In addition to the branch-expansion
brought about by a string of successful
take-over bids and a vigorous building-
programme, the co. has steadily widened
its range of merchandise, and the in-
creased emphasis placed on foodstuffs in
recent years is in line with the board’s
declared policy of exploring all avenues
of profitable retail-selling suitable, pre-
sumably, to the basic cash-and-carry
principles on which the group operates.
As John Connell Dickens, Ltd., wasn’t
officially taken into the Coles organisa-
tion until July, there were no abnormal
circumstances —such as the Penneys take-
over in the 1956-57 term —to boost last
year’s earnings ; the small improvement
in net profit sprang directly from a lower
provision for taxation.
Turnover (up 25 p.c. in 1956-57)
advanced by £2.7 million to £49 million
over the year, but, after allowing £349,411
(down £11,369) for depreciation, group
“profit from trading” slipped by £100,542
to £2,802,370, lower establishment ex-
penses (down £16,818 at £4932) and a
£205,008 smaller tax-provision (£979,525)
leaving the net profit attributable to Coles
shareholders at £1,790,370. When
allowance is made for a £111,813 over-
provision for tax in the preceding year,
the actual improvement in earnings
shows up as £9477:
Parent Only.
f Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. . f Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
Revaluation assets, £1,363,516 . . 2.605,727
Share premiums, £28,558 .. ..2,634,285
From tax reserve, £189,192 .. .. 2,823,377
Profit sale assets, £4215 .. .. 2,827,592
Goodwill, etc., w/off, £61,510 .. 2,766,082
’54. 865,938 12,000 15 = 554,751 299,187 3,065,269
To staff fund, £50,000 .. ..3,015,269
Tax overprovided, £41,674 .. .. 3,056,943
Profit sale assets, £555 .. .. 3,057,498
To asset revaluation reserve, £5545.. 3,051,953
Goodwill, etc., w/off, £114,705 .. 2,937,248
’53.1,151,865 12,000 15 = 721,189 418,676 3,355,924
To staff fund, £60,000 . . . . 3,295,924
Profit sale assets, £52,087 .. .. 3,348,011
Goodwill, etc., w/off, £50,842 .. 3,297,169
Tax overprovided, £20,020 ..’ ~3,317,189
To staff fund, £50,000 .. ..3,267,189
’56.1,246,728 12,000 15 = 892,405 342,323 3,609,512
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Added on consolidation, £326,583 . . 3,936,095
Less difference between par- and book-
value of shares in subsidiaries,
£867,373 3.068,722
Revaluation assets, £1,232,792 .. 4,301,514
Reserves capitalised, £2,054,853 .. 2,246,661
Profit sale assets, £118,244 .. .. 2,364,905
Tax overprovided, £22,709 .. .. 2,387,614
Less adjustment, micority sharehold-
ing, £l9 2,387,595
’57.1,669,080 12,000 12.6=1,025,144 631,936 3.019.531
Unexplained reduction, £350 .. .. 3,019,181
Loss, sale assets, £1357 .. .. 3,017,824
Tax overprovided, £111,813 .. .. 3,129,637
’58.1,790,370 12,000 11.6=1,350,495 427,875 3,557,512
* After deducting intangibles, £867,373 at 30/6/’5B.
The profit available to ord. shareholders
represented a return of 15.3 p.c. on
average ord. capital, compared with 19.8
p.c. on the bonus-enlarged capital in the
previous term, total earnings clearing
the pref. and ord. divs. by £427,875.
The John Connell Dickins purchase
and the continuing outlay on fixed
assets should be reflected in the profit-
figure for the current year, but, while
some improvement in the earning-rate on
share-capital may be expected, tighter
trading conditions could well limit the
scope for gains in this direction.
With the help of retained earnings and
the £2,671,309 of fresh share-capital, the
co. was able to outlay a net £1,730,952
on fixed assets (mainly freeholds), reduce
long-term liabilities by £225,240, and
still manage to increase the surplus of
current assets over current liabilities by
£1,217,019 (to a comfortable £3,443,582).
At balance-date, nearly nine months
after the share-issue, there was £1,663,479
in cash, bonds, etc., as against £112,438
a year earlier: —■
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref. £150,000 £150.000 £150,000
Ord. .. 5,949,518 8,904,366 11,575,675
Reserves .. 3,068,722 8,019,531 3,557,512
Minority interest 464,903 464,854 464,756
Notes . . . . 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Balance owing on
properties, etc. 134,620 958,942 828,025
Mortgages . . 3,021,105 3,102,804 3,008,541
Overdraft .. 444,539 625,099
Creditors .. 1,691,110 2,135,944 2,842,508
Staff fund . , 107,080 282,465 281,385
Tax provision. , 906.925 1,184,533 979,525
Final div. .. 594,951 682,668 887,468
£18,033,468 £23,511.296 £26,575,395
Freeholds .. 8,725,513 11,593,454 12,787,596
Leaseholds . . 1,265,344 1,259,952 1,318,518
Fittings, etc... 2,617,532 3,520,018 3,998,862
Stocks .. 5,239,228 6,437,163 6,602,610
Debtors .. 122.398 587.671 204,330
Cash, bonds .. 63,453 112,438 1,663,479
£18,033,468 £23,511.296 £26,575,395
Freeholds, the largest single item in the
balance-sheet, are shown partly at valua-
tion and partly at cost. When the books
were ruled-off there was a little under
6s. 7d. in net tangible assets supporting
each of the ss. units issued at that date.
Castlemaine Perkins, Ltd.
A rapidly increasing population and a
sharp jump in post-war per capita
consumption have lifted the annual Aus-
tralian beer-intake by almost 120 p.c.
since 1945-46, and, even on the evidence
of the none-too-expansive published
accounts, it can be seen that Castlemaine
Perkins, Ltd., has collected at least a fair
share of the additional business offering
in the northern State.
The well - entrenched Queensland
brewer and hotel-proprietor doesn’t dis-
close its turnover, but movements in
earnings give some indication of the
general trend. As claimed, net profit
climbed from £143,264 to £214,011 over
the four years to 1953, rose by 50 p.c. in
the following year and last term reached
a record £392,148. Over the same period
inner reserves and excess provisions total-
ling £600,000 have been brought to light.
To cope with the higher demand and
secure the extra trade to the co., exten-
sive additions have been made in recent
years to both brewery and hotel-proper-
ties. Since a sizeable rebuilding and
modernisation programme got under way
in 1953 £873,400 has been put into new
brewery-plant, a further £445,100 spent
on “general reconditioning” and new
brewery-buildings, and £707,280 outlaid


Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. AIjLiEN
P. R. LEVY
M. R. L. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
G. H. PARTRIDGE & CO.
L.. D. PARTRIDGE, A. G. HANSON
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
113 Pitt Street, Sydney Telephone: BL 5031-2
on the construction and renovation of
hotel-properties. All this has been done
without any direct assistance from share-
holders—the annual dividend-cheque has,
in fact, doubled within the last six years
—or any marked increase in outside
liabilities. Current expansion plans
include further extensions to brewery-
plant and the erection of new hotel-
premises at Kedron, Camp Hill and
Balmoral.
Held at 8 p.c. for all but four of the
22 years to 1953, the div.-rate was raised
to 10 p.c. in 1954 and to 12 p.c. in 1955.
Shareholders moved further into the
picture in the 1957 term when paid
capital, steady at £1,500,000 for 16 years,
\vas raised to £2,400,000 by what was,
in effect, a three-for-five bonus-issue
financed by a conservative revaluation of
freeholds. The div.-rate was dropped to
.10 p.c. after the gift-issue.
Visible reserves rose to within £207,068
of share-capital during the year to July
31 last, and feature in the solid financial
set-up at £2,192,932. Of the £252,148
added to reserves last term, £lOO,OOO came
from surplus provisions for “renovations,
replacements and contingencies”:
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £1,500,000 £2,400,000 £2,400,000
Reserves .. .. 2,701,855 1,940,784 2,192,932
Prov. renovations,
contingencies, etc. 583,077 560,489 471,112
Creditors, etc. .. 548,223 558.570 559,641
Final div. .. 105,000 120,000 120,000
£5,438,155 £5,579,543 £5,743,685
Brewery, hotels, etc. 4,151,753 4,479.395 4,853,878
Shares other cos... 11,373 11.373 11,183
Stock . . .. 385,222 421,632 415,397
Debtors .. .. 290,804 275.643 312,319
Cash, bonds, etc... 599,003 388,800 150,908
£5,438,155 £5,579,843 £5,743,685
To help cover last term’s £374,483 (net)
outlay on fixed assets and a £33,676
increase in book-debts, holdings of cash
and bonds were drawn on to the extent
of £237,892 (with a consequent slip in
liquidity), but there was no need for any
outside assistance, the amount against
creditors, tax-provisions, etc., remaining
almost constant. Book-values give each
f.-p. 10s. ord. a net tangible asset backing
of a shade under 19s. 2d.
Gross earnings and expenses are on
the secret list, along with the number of
Co.-owned hotels and the income there-
from, but the board does admit to an
unspecified improvement in turnover last
year and a £13,220 increase in net profit:
To Re- Re-
July, Pro fit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
From inner reserves, £lOO,OOO .. 1,218,99 S
1953. . 214,011 8 p.c. = 120 000 J u x 9
Provident fund, £2500 .. )
1954. . 323,067 10 p.c. = 150.000 J 170f567 1f48 1,070
Provident fund, £2ooo . . \
1955. - 336,639 12 p.c. = 180,000 ( 154 139 1,635,215
Provident fund, £2ooo . . )
Revaluation freeholds, £908,950 .. 2,544,165
1956.. 337,691 12 p.c. = 180,000 157,691 2,701,856
Reserves capitalised, £900.000 .. 1,801,856
1957.. 378.928 10 p.c. = 240,000 138,928 1,940,784
From provision renovations, contin-
gencies, etc., £lOO,OOO . . . . 2,040,784
1958.. 392,148 10 p.c. = 240,000 152.148 2,192,932
The £392,148 profit, reckoned after setting
aside an undisclosed amount for taxation
and contingencies and £141,298 (up
£22,817) for depreciation, was equal to
16.3 p.c. on share-capital, compared with
15.7 p.c. in the previous term and 14 p.c.
(calculated on the present capital) in
1956.
Selling at around 21s. 6d. a year ago,
the 10s. ords. fetched up to 275. 9d. in
July of this year. However, after com-
menting earlier this month on the overall
position—“we have had a good year, our
turnover has expanded and we look with
confidence to the future” —chairman D. S.
Forbes referred to market support for
the co.’s shares, and stated that the “direc-
tors know of no domestic reason for the
high upward movement and are desirous
in the interests of the investing public,
of sounding a note of caution.” The
scrip changed hands last week at 245. 6d.,
at which price the yield from a 10 p.c.
distribution would be £4 Is. 7d. p.c.
S.A. Rubber Mills, Ltd,
A sparkling performer ever since it
graduated to public-status in Decem-
ber, 1948, S.A. Rubber Mills, Ltd., con-
tinued to bowl along in great style last
term to finish the year with turnover up
by 25 p.c. and net earnings up by a little
over 26 p.c.
Catering mainly for the needs of motor-
vehicle and domestic-appliance manu-
facturers (General Motors-Holden’s is one
of its biggest customers), S.A. Rubber
turns-out a wide range of industrial-
rubber products, foam-rubber and plastic-
foam lines at factories at Edwardstown
(South Aust.) and Dandenong (Vic.).
With demand for many of these pro-
ducts stimulated by the growth of the
industries served, the co. has expanded,
more-or-less continuously, at a startling
rate over the past decade, frequent injec-
tions of new share-capital contributing to
an almost twelvefold increase in net
earnings since 1949.
Par-issues in the 1951, 1954, 1955 and
1956 terms, together with a one-for-10
bonus-issue in 1951, took the all-ord. paid
capital from £lOO,OOO to £400,000, the
total rising to £600.000 last December
with simultaneous par and bonus issues,
both on a one-for-four basis. However,
despite the well-covered 15 p.c. div. sent
out in each of the last five terms, retained
earnings have been the principal source
of new funds, with the result that reserves
have grown at an even faster rate than
capital.
The reinvestment of a large part of
the profits has helped to build up a high
earning-rate, and although last term's
showing represented a healthy 36.2 p.c.
on the bonus-fattened share-capital (as it
stood at the end of the year), the ratio
was well below the average rate (44 p.c.)
recorded over the four preceding years.
Both the rubber- and plastics-divisions
shared In the increased sales last term
(to June 30), the bigger turnover, with
improved manufacturing - techniques,
enabling the co. to absorb higher wage-
costs, effect some reductions in selling-
prices and still show net profit £45,299
stronger at £217,314:
To Re- Re-
June Profit. t Dividend serves, serves.
SO, £ £ £ £
Share premiums, £13,200 .. .. 32,586
Share-issue exps. written-off, £2414.. 30,172
1949.. 17,827 10 p.c. = 7,404 10,423 40,595
1960.. 25,891 10 „ ~ 10,000 15,891 56,486
Share premiums capitalised, £lO,OOO. . 46,485
1951.. 37,239 10 p.c. = 13,000 24,239 70,725
Unexplained addition, £B3 .. .. 70,808
1952.. 50,888 124 p.c. = 18,750 32,138 102.946
1953.. 62,897 „ „ 18,750 44,147 147,093
1954.. 96,953 15 „ „ 28,125 68,828 215,921
1955. .113,967 15 „ ~36,250 77,717 293,638
1956. .127,923 15 „ „ 51,250 76,673 370,311
1957. .172,015 15 ~ ~60,000 112,015 482,326
Revaluation freeholds, £99,214 .. 581,540
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO .. 481,540
1958. .217,314 15 p.c. = 77,500 139,814 621,354
Before arriving at the record profit,
£181,186 (up £22,601) was provided for
taxation and a whopping £146,437 (up
£32,282) for depreciation, the large tax-
provision arising, mainly, from the fact
that depreciation was, as usual, calcu-
lated on rates well above those recognised
by the taxation authorities.
Scrip issued during the year ranked for
dividends from December 1 last, and
less than 36 p.c. of the profit was required
to maintain the 15 p.c.'div.-rate, which,
on the full £600,000 capital, would call for
£90,000, or £127,314 less than the amount
turned in last term.
Extensions to plant and freeholds and
the purchase of a seven-acre site (which
the board doesn’t plan to develop at
present) adjoining the Edwardstown
works involved a capital-expenditure last
year of around £240,000. In addition, a
£99,214 surplus on revaluation of free-
holds was brought intQ the accounts prior
to the bonus-issue, but the heavy deprecia-
tion provision limited the net increase
in fixed assets to £213,928. The rapid
growth of the co. hasn’t upset the well-
balanced and comfortably liquid financial
structure:
Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £400.000 £400,000 £600,000
Reserves .. 370,311 482,327 621,355
Overdraft .. 151,117 60,863 86,229
Creditors .. 240,085 225,914 280,036
Tax provision .. 124,252 172,757 207,657
Dividends .. 51,250 60,000 77,500
£1,337,015 £1,401,861 £1,872,777
Freehold land, build-
ings . . . . 222,615 287,382 481,021
Plant, vehicles, etc. 288.631 294,589 314,878
Stock . . .. 520,836 485,479 611,085
Debtors . . . . 281,200 330,867 464,571
Cash, prepayments,
etc 23,733 3,544 1,222
£1,337,015 £1,401,861 £1,572,777
Stocks (up £125,606) and book-debts (up
£133,704) rose with the brisker turnover,
and although retained earnings, provi-
sions and the £lOO,OOO put up by share-
holders provided the bulk of the funds
needed for these movements and the con-
siderable capital - outlay, the bank
advanced an extra £25,366, and there was


A. W. HARVEY, LOWE & CO.
STEPHEN LOWE & GIEEES T. KBYGEB
Stock & Sharebrokers
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
5 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
BW 2451
Teleg. Address
UNITY
Invest in
lj
The longest established hire-purchase
company in Australia
Registered First Mortgage
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6 or 10 years
7%
\ years 6V2% 2 years 5V*%
Short Term Stock also available from
3 months at 3 , /»%
Assets exceed £47,000,000
Application Forms and Prospectus
# Any A.G.C. Branch O Your Stockbroker
O Bank of New South Wales at any Branch
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane e Adelaide • Perth
Hobart
A copy of tho prospectus covering this issue of
£2,500,000 has been lodged with the Registrar-General,
Sydney.
NJ
an additional £54,122 owing
to creditors at balance-date.
With working - capital up
£142,600 at £502,956, the board
has no plans for raising share-
capital in the current term.
While continuing to specialise
in supplies for the automotive
and household-appliances in-
dustries, the co. plans to widen
its activities in the plastics field,
and a new plastics-extrusion
plant will be brought into
operation next December.
Contracts in hand and strong
connections with leading manu-
facturers should ensure a satis-
factory level of sales in the
current term, while substantial
reserves, a high earning-rate
and an expanding turnover give
promise of future rewards for
shareholders. The sharemarket
prices the scrip accordingly, and
at 19s. the f.-p. ss. ords. would
return £3 18s. lid. p.c. from
a 15 p.c. distribution. Net
tangible asset backing at June
30 last was 10s. 2d.
Publishers Holdings, Ltd.
Consolidated Accounts.
June, Profit.* f Dividends—, Deficit.
1951.. 54,301 74p.c. = 15,000 1
Divs. paid by sub. cos., f 54,830
£17,084 J
Added intangibles, £2000.. 56,830
Loss sale plant, £551 .. 67,381
1952.. 48.088 15 p.c. = 30,000 39,292
Tax overprovided, £B7 . . 39,205
Profit sale plant, £2 . . 39,203
1953.-66,640 15 p.c. = 30,000 2,563
Reserves, t
Tax overprovided, £9227 . . 6,664
Net profit sale freehold,
£6554 . . . . . . 13,218
1954.. 66.867 15 p.c. = 30,000 50,085
Tax overprovided, £4 . - 50,089
1955.. 58.936 15 p.c. := 30,000 79,025
Tax underprovided, £102.. 78,923
Intangibles w/off, £2260.. 76,663
1956.. 79.356 15 p.c. = 36.875 119,144
Tax underprovided, £55 . . 119,089
1957.. 15 p.c. = 37,500 149,128
Tax overprovided, £2558 . . 151,686
1958.. 171p.c. = 43,750 203,754
* After eliminating outside shareholders’
interests, and provident fund dividend,
t Subject to intangibles, now written-out.
An outstanding year follow-
ing an unbroken series of
outstanding years has been
recorded by this co. Publishers
Holdings may not rank
amongst the blue chips of the
’Change lists, but there is
nothing third-rate about its
capacity to wring profits from
a highly competitive market.
This year’s dividend-rate
was prettied-up by the addition
of a 2£ p.c. bonus, but the
£43,750 absorbed by the
p.c. payout has always been
covered, and usually well
covered, by net profits earned
in each of the eight years
during which the K. G. Murray
group has been under the
suzerainty of a public holding
company. And there’s a likeli-
hood of better things in
store for the shareholder who
resists the current strong buyer-
support for the scrip.
The dividend required less
than half of a profit which
represented a return of 38.3
p.c. on an all-ord. capital
which has only once been
padded-out, by a one-for-four
par issue of £50,000 in August,
1955. Since incorporation in
October, 1950, when the public
was offered a quarter-share,
the return on mean capital has
averaged 30.6 p.c.
Overall turnover for the year
ended June 30 increased, due
to an ever-widening circle of
titles. Audited circulation
figures of some individual
numbers fell slightly, however,
and this can probably be
ascribed to the impact on
readership of TV, which is
being carefully watched, but is
discounted as a serious com-
petitor.
Taxation for the term
engulfed £54,942 (£42,928 in
1957) and £26,757 (£23,530)
was written-off machinery and
plant, leaving the group with
a clear £95,818 (£67,539) to
play with. Of this, £52,068
jackpotted to a formidable and
fast - mounting reserve - kitty,
which now gives each ss. ord.
a net tangible prop of 9s. Id.
A glance at the consolidated
accounts is sufficient to estab-
lish the credentials of this well-
oiled div.-spinner:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £250,000 £250,000
Reserves .. .. 149,128 203,754
Outside interests .. 2,750 2,750
Hire-purchase
creditors .. .. 11,023 32,735
Overdraft .. .. 23,579 7,040
Creditors, etc. .. 120.903 111,605
Tax provision .. 42,928 54,942
Staff fund .. •• 12,075 12,075
Final div 18,750 25,000
£631,136 £699,901
Freeholds .. . • 99,317 168.231
Leaseholds .. .. 75
Plant, etc 138,556 179.167
Stocks .. .. 215,343 191,874
Debtors .. •• 101,672 53,509
Cash, etc. .. .. 76,173 107,120
£631,136 £699,901
The increase recorded in the
book-value of freeholds was on
account of a new office-build-
ing in Sydney’s Clarence Street,
financed, like most other of
the fixed assets, out of retained
profits.
The Murray team of maga-
zines and comics had its be-
ginnings in 1936 when “Man”
was inaugurated, and its suc-
cess led to other progressive
launchings. In 1945 rights to
publish the American trilogy
“True Story,” “True Romance”
and “Photoplay” were secured,
and the following year the
group was rendered self-
contained by the establishment
of Kenmure Press, the printing
arm of the business.
Today a score or more of
regular titles, light or mildly
technical in their content, roll
off the company’s presses at the
well-equipped and modern
©
North Lidcombe (Sydney)
printery, and there are also
annuals, single - issues, etc.
Some of the output finds its
way to the United Kingdom,
and a subsidiary has been
established in New Zealand to
counter the import restrictions.
As low as 7s. lOd. earlier in
the year, Publishers’ scrip is
now on the ascendant, the
shares selling recently at 11s.
(cx-div.), offering a yield of 8
p.c. or possibly 9.1 p.c. if this
year’s final of 6d. a share fore-
shadows a lift to a 20 p.c. rate.


V
Nr
k
*
*
A
A
IwJ
c
NEW ISSUE
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CCRPOSATION LTD.
Australia’s Leading Hire Purchase Organisation, announces a new issue of
MUSTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
7% p.a. . . 6 yrs.
6i% p.a. . . 4 yrs.
5i% p.a. . . 1 yrs.
5% p.a, . . . I yr.
4i% p.a. o . 9 mths.
4% p.a. . . 6 mths.
3i% p.a. . . 3 mths.
I.A.C. guarantees fixed quarterly income, free of exchange. For full details, see Prospectus
These are facts that the wise investor should know.
PAID UP CAPITAL
£10,000,000
ASSETS EXCEED
£55,000,000
A copy of the Prospectus has been
lodged with the Registrar General
in all Capital Cities and Canberra.
Our Auditors, Messrs. L. B. Wallace & Son,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.) wish to state
that as at 31 st July, 1958, the amount of issued
Debenture Stock was £23,346,090 secured by a
first floating charge over the tangible assets
of the Company which amounted to
£58,626,014 at that date.
Your copy of the Prospectus is available from Members of Stock Exchanges, 703
Branches of A.N.Z. Bank Limited or I.A.C. Branches.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
(Established 28 years )
MELBOURNE • SYDNEY • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART • CANBERRA
• NEWCASTLE • GEELONG • WOLLONGONG • BUNBURY
Underwriting Brokers:
lan Potter & Co.,
Melbourne, Canberra & Sydney.
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders :
The Perpetual Executors & Trustees Association
of Australia Limited.
Ravensthorpe Copper
Y ET to show a profit in its
A annual accounts Ravens-
thorpe Copper Mines, N.L., is
at last drawing the whole of
its ore-requirements from
underground, and the treat-
ment of low-grade dump
material has now been discon-
tinued.
Last month it was reported
that production had reached
a weekly rate of 100
tons of copper-concentrates (of
“approximately” 25 p.c. copper
and lOdwt. gold) and that the
improvement in output was
expected to continue. The co.
is proceeding with plans for
raising milling-capacity to
10,000 tons per four-weekly
period.
“It can be said,” according
to the board, “that having
reached this rate of production
the mine is operating profit-
ably.” The board had pre-
viously forecast the establish-
ment of the mine on a profit-
able basis by the end of 1957,
but delays in obtaining suffi-
cient underground ore, the
unexpectedly low grade of
dump material and the
depressed market for copper,
combined to produce a net loss
of £93,193 last term (to June
30). In these circumstances
the co. was forced to make two
calls (in August '57 and April
’5B), each of Is., on the 10s.
contribs., raising their paid-up
value to 7s. and paid capital
to £747,812.
Ravensthorpe is at present
accumulating its first parcel of
copper-concentrates for sale on
the local market and will thus
participate in the bounty pay-
able to local producers. It is
anticipated that by the middle
of next year the entire output
will be disposed of on the
Australian market.
Registered as Western
Uranium, N.L., in 1954, the co.
took over the old Elverdton
mine at Ravensthorpe, W.A. in
the following year.
Of the 53,005 tons of ore
put through the mill last term,
22,866 tons came from the
dumps and averaged “about'’
0.9 p.c. copper, ore from under-
ground, including development
and cleaning of old workings,
averaging “just under” 2 p.c.
Metal content of the 2800 tons
of copper-concentrate produced
was: copper, 675 tons, gold,
14230 z. and silver approxi-
mately 5000 oz.
After allowing for the
£32,603 charged against for-
ward development, mining,
treatment and realisation costs
added-up to £167,560 (635. 3d.
per ton of ore milled), admin,
expenses (£13,735) and depre-
ciation (£37,362), taking ex-
penditure to £218,657. Stocks
of concentrate on hand at the
end of the year were estimated
to realise £13,598, actual sales
bringing in £109,039, while
sundry items of income totalled
£2827. The £93,193 net loss
brought the accumulated
deficit to £105,705.
The financial position as dis-
closed by the balance-sheet
appears uncomfortably tight,
but the W.A. Government has
guaranteed overdraft accom-
modation up to £lOO,OOO. At
June 30 current assets amounted
to £54,488 and current liabilities
to £89,997. Deferred liabilities
.figured at £111,075, fixed assets
at £358,260, mine-development,
etc., at £146,824 and intangibles
(including leases and rights,
£237,500) at £283,607.
The 10s. contribs., paid to
75., sold last week at 2s. sd.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
■jACKSON & K
,O'SUIUVAN /j
t.% PTYLTD .jV
W. '*l**, 'a*.*!? W"
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, October 7.
TThere was no reason to
■*- believe that the external
causes of New Zealand’s
balance-of-payments difficulties
were about to be alleviated, let
alone removed, said Customs
Minister Boord when
announcing the 1959 import-
licensing schedule.
The schedule clamps down
more tightly on imports and
introduces important changes in
licensing-procedure. There will
be no A-licences that is,
licences for high-priority goods,
which this year were auto-
matically granted to the Jfuli
amount applied for.
Under the new system there’ll
be a “basic” allocation for
essential imports; C-licences,
subject to individual considera-
tion ; and D-licences, for which
exchange will be allocated only
in most exceptional circum-
stances.
Motor-vehicles, unassembled
or completely knocked-down,
are among the items for which
applications for licences will
be considered individually. This
year there was a specific alloca-
tion for motor-vehicles. Motor-
spirits will also be subject to
individual applications. At
present there is no limit on
imports of motor-spirits.
Imports of metals and wire
will be cut. Galvanised- or plain
black-iron in the form of
angles, tees, bars, bolts,
channels, rods and rolled
girders, and plate-iron, will be
reduced to 75 per cent, of the
amount imported without
restriction. The allocation for
corrugated sheet-iron is reduced
to 75 per cent, of the current
licence.
Imports of many other items
on the current schedule will be
cut, and many items previously
admitted on the basis of 50 per
cent, of 1956 imports are now
listed as D-items and virtually
prohibited.
On the credit side, global
licences, available for any
country in the world, will be
reintroduced on a far greater
scale than before. This, it is
hoped, will enable importers to
buy in the best market, increase
the variety of goods and keep
prices competitive, in addition
to relaxing “dollar discrimina-
tion” and encouraging greater
two-way trade with dollar
countries.
The Government has
promised that overseas ex-
change will be provided by
March 31 next for goods im-
ported before December 31
under 1958 “excess” licences.
These were introduced to
cover the position of importers
who had goods on firm order
overseas when the 1958
schedule came into operation
last January. The licences per-
mitted goods to be imported,
but made no provision for
exchange for payment. “Ex-
cess” licences are endorsed to
the effect that they are a charge
against future allocations for
similar goods, and they will
accordingly be charged against
1959 allocations,
Commenting on the new
schedule, Mr. Boord said it was
designed to take maximum
advantage of manufacturing in
N.Z. But to make unlimited
imported plant and materials
“Say ‘Ah.'"
available to manufacturers
would defeat the fundamental
purpose of the restrictions.
Loans Abroad
New Zealand’s overseas
borrowing this year is brought
to a total of £54,400,000 as a
result of short-term arrange-
ments made in New York for
the dollar equivalent of about
£16.4 million. There will be
a £12.3 million three-year loan,
secured by gold, carrying
interest at 3| per cent., and
a one-year revolving credit of
£4.1 million, at 4\ per cent.
This, it is understood, com-
pletes the year’s overseas-
borrowing programme. Some
borrowing will be required next
year to provide funds for
essential imports, but Govern-
ment spokesmen have indi -
cated that it will be on a much
reduced scale.
Cost-of-living
The effects of tax-increases
in the recent Budget have
shown-up in the consumers’
price-index for the third quarter
of 1958. The index has risen
by 49 points, or 4.6 per cent.,
to 1130. (Average prices ruling
in 1955 = 1000.) The rise of 49
points compares with rises of
12 points in the second quarter
and only one point in the first
quarter of the year.
Sharp increases in the cost
of tobacco, alcohol and private
transport made the greatest
contribution to the overall
increase. •
Immediately after the Budget
was presented on June 26 the
president of the Federation of
Labor, F. P. Walsh, predicted
that the price-index would rise
•by approximately 5 per cent.
That prediction is well on the
way to fulfilment. It seems
evident that the full effect of
tax-increases has not yet been
reflected in the index and that
there will be another rise in
the December quarter.
The question now is whether
or not the Federation of Labor
will decide to seek a general
wage-rise.
Export Prospects
Recent reassessments of pro-
spects for some of N.Z.’s main
exports provide a little much-
needed encouragement.
It now appears that receipts
from meat for the current
calendar year may surpass last
year's record of £BO million by
as much as £5 million, instead
of falling £lO million below it,
as earlier predicted. For the
first eight months of the year
receipts were £63.1 million,
£5.26 million ahead of the total
for the corresponding eight
months last year. The increased
returns arise mainly from sales
in markets outside Britain,
which have greatly exceeded
expectations.
“Patches of cheerful color”
in the dairy-marketing situ-
ation are seen by the general-
manager of the N.Z. Dairy
Products Marketing Commis-
sion. He lists the following
patches: The improving world
economic situation ; the
possible partial reopening of
Canada’s markets; the rising
butter consumption in Europe ;
the N.Z.-Japan trade-agree-
ment ; the reduction in the
U.K. preference margin ; the
promise of markets in Ceylon
and China ; good business in
the London cheese-market;
and improvement in milk-
powder prices.
Meantime farmers are facing
a serious threat from a new
quarter. The driest spring for
many years has checked pas-
ture-growth over widespread
areas of both North and South
Islands, and unless there is
heavy and prolonged rain soon
the drought will have a
disastrous effect on production.


A Field of Wheat
By H. H. WILSON
This story was awarded Second Prize (£5O) in the
1957 competition of the Sydney Journalists’ Club
Stephen King swayed as
the morning train from
Tokyo canted round a
bend. The faces of the
other strap-hangers seemed to
swim towards him, then recede,
like part of some vast, illimi-
table human tide. He felt his
body grow taut as they pressed
against him, stiff with the hate
he had kept manacled since the
war.
A group of teenagers in the
rear of the car giggled and
laughed amongst themselves,
and a slim youth in the drab
uniform of a university student
began to sing. After a few
minutes some of the girls
joined in. They seemed much
fairer than the men, King
thought, with round, almost
rosy cheeks, while most of the
men were hollow-cheeked and
sallow.
He shifted his weight to the
other foot, feeling the revolver
heavy in his pocket. A middle-
aged woman, bent almost
double under an enormous
bundle, met his eyes as the
train rocked, and immediately
looked down at her feet. The
row of seated men stared im-
passively into space, their dark
eyes expressionless.
The singing stopped and a
gale of laughter followed it.
King’s lips tightened. Laugh
away. Your time will come.
Like Ken’s. He’d often seen
Ken the centre of a group like
that. Not that his brother had
ever been a university student.
He’d been too good-looking,
too fond of a good time.
He looked away quickly,
feeling almost sick with a bitter
rage. His parents had told him
to bury his hate with the peace,
but he could not. It was some-
thing which the passage of years
had been unable to dispel, this
fixation for revenge. It was
something malignant, unseen
but deep, embedded in the very
tissues of the mind and heart.
Sometimes he fancied it affected
his vision, like a hidden tumor.
It would come between him
and his joy in his own children.
Because then he would think:
Ken should have been sharing
in this joy, too. Or when he
looked out over his fields of
wheat, ripening in the clear hot
sunlight and dappled with the
shadows of passing clouds, the
thought would come: Ken was
to have shared this with me.
There was enough for two.
Four-thousand acres... enough
for Ken and himself and their
sons.
The shadows would grow
darker, blotting out the pale
gold of the wheat, the grey-
green of the edging scrub, until
it would become the wet
tangled green of the Burmese
jungle. Then the hate would
come back, a fanatical, terrible
thing, choking in his throat and
making him faint with nausea,
and his limbs shake with fine
tremors he could not control.
He'd tried to master it. His
doctor had given him some
pills and a good talking-to. The
war was over, wasn’t it? The
world would be a pretty place
to live in, he said, if everyone
went on like you.
TTis wife had comforted him.
“You must forget it, Steve.
Ken is gone and you can’t bring
him back, brooding over it like
this. He wouldn’t want you to
spoil your own life, all our
lives . . .”
Neighbors, old mates from
the same company, all coun-
selled the same thing: “Snap
out of it, Dig . . . Ken wasn’t the
only one. It’s war, remember 7
War. War’s like that. Even
some of our own chaps . . .”
He’d tried to snap out of it.
Everything they said was true.
He’d joined in local activities,
sport, forcing himself to mingle
with other people ; or working
until he was numb with fatigue ;
even drinking for a while before
he met Madge. But nothing
was any good. In the night,
like a reawakening pain when
the effects of a drug are wear-
ing off, memories would
torment him, leaving him
staring into the night’s black-
ness, hot-eyed and sleepless.
“Look after Ken,” their
parents had said, just as if
they’d been setting-off on one
of their boyhood expeditions.
That had always been his job,
being 10 years the elder. In
a way it had been a mistake,
being in the same company.
It was school all over again.
Ken rebelling at Army disci-
pline, Stephen, the more serious
brother, getting him out of
hot water. He’d managed all
right until Singapore. Then
had come the prison-camps, the
Burma Road. Ken risking his
life for silly, trivial things like


a couple of cigarettes, making
a radio in a jam-tin, imitating
the sallow, poker-faced guards,
making fun of old Nobu, the
sergeant. Sure, it had kept the
men’s spirits up. But the guards
hadn’t seen it that way. In the
end they lost patience and made
an example of him.
King swallowed determ-
inedly and the taste was like
gall. The train was slowing-
up now, as it climbed the
mountains. He closed his eyes
and opened them quickly. Only
when he was awake could he
be sure of not seeing Sergeant
Nobu's face, beefy, blank, lash-
less ... a lump of flesh which
could feel no pain itself.
He glimpsed the mountain
slopes through a vista of dark
heads. It was pretty country,
all right. Those feathery trees,
'with azaleas growing wild.
Camellias, too, the fallen
blooms dotting the grass like
blood. He’d seen it like that,
too. Australian blood. Japan-
ese, too, but not enough of it.
Not Nobu’s.
He'd followed the war-
trials carefully. Nobu had
been first condemned to death,
then his sentence was com-
muted to life ; now, after 10
years, he’d been released. As
soon as he’d read that, he’d
made his plans.
All Nobu’s senior officers
had been killed, save the very
young Lieutenant Yukichi,
who had acted as interpreter.
He’d been little more than a
schoolboy, like Ken, and
scarcely as big as the sword he
carried on ceremonial occa-
sions. He’d no part in this
bloody business. Entirely by
chance he'd read years ago that
Jiro Yukichi was amongst a
group of students going to
Europe for post-graduate edu-
cation. So he’d made inquiries
before he came and had found
that Yukichi was now a pro-
fessor at a small university out-
side Kobe.
'T'he train stopped suddenly,
jolting an old man with a
shaven, sunken face against him.
He put up a claw-like hand to
shield something he was carry-
ing. King stared down at him,
noting his threadbare grey
kimono was a mass of patches
and darns, and that his
knotted, naked feet in their
wooden sandals were blue with
cold. From his superior height,
too, he could see that the
precious thing he was carrying
was a small twig of fruit-tree,
the buds still hard and green,
but showing pink at the tips.
As the crowd jostled towards
the exit the old man kept bow-
mg and apologising. Apolo-
gising for being alive, King
thought, and was surprised to
feel something like pity flow
warmly round his heart. Reso-
lutely he checked it, clenching
his teeth. Serve the old fellow
right, if he’d fallen on hard
times. Serve them all right.
Let them starve amongst their
ruins. They’d asked for it.
Roughly he shouldered his
way past. That was just a trick,
a national trick. Pretending to
be so humble and polite, and
all the time hiding treachery
behind their bows and smiles,
guns and bombers behind their
cherry-blossoms.
He noted with satisfaction
how shabby the town was.
Then he signalled a taxi,
showed a card with the address
printed on it.
“0.k.” The driver grinned
and shot away from the kerb.
King gripped his seat. They
reckoned these taxi-drivers
were all ex-kamikaze pilots,
But this one was too young.
Besides, kamikaze pilots didn’t
come back to drive taxi-cabs.
King had only a blurred im-
pression of drab wooden
houses with brownish-grev tiles,
secret behind their wooden
fences, only the dark green of
some dwarf tree showing here
and there.
Then up a little rise, round
a corner to a sudden stop.
Yes, that would be the house.
Western style, they’d told him ;
and that was the only Western-
style in the whole street.
On a tiny square of ground
at one side two little girls were
playing hopscotch. They wore
blue, pleated skirts, bright-red
corded velveteen jackets and
long white stockings.
He walked towards them.
“Does Professor Yukichi live
here?” he demanded tersely.
“That’s my father,” said the
elder, a 10-year-old with bright
black eyes in a round face.
“He’s not home yet,” added
the younger, coming up to
stare.
They both spoke English
clearly. Suddenly the younger
one called out in Japanese:
“Mama! Mama! ”
A.slim girl, dressed in a grey
tweed skirt and yellow sweater
was coming down the cement
steps.
“I’m looking for a Professor
Yukichi,” King began stiffly.
“My name is King. Stephen
King.”
Che smiled politely, showing
very white teeth.
“My husband will be home
soon. Will you be pleased to
come in?”
Husband! She looked about
19 herself. King followed her
into a living-room sparsely
furnished in Western style.
Another door opened, and a
middle-aged woman in a dull
red kimono, wearing white-toed
socks and slippers, came out.
“My husband’s mother,”
Mrs. Yukichi introduced them
briefly.
The older woman bowed,
and tried to smile. But sadness
sat upon her face like a mask,
so that the effort only deepened
its fretwork of lines, and made
her look as though she were
about to weep. She bowed
again, deeply, so that he could
see her top-knot of iron-grey
hair, and withdrew.
“She asks to be excused,”
Mrs. Yukichi apologised. “She
does not understand English.
Since her husband and three
sons were lost in the war, she
has not much happiness in
company.”
King let his eyes range round
the room. There was a record
of Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony
on top of a cheap radiogram,
which looked home-made.
Along the bookshelf he could
pick out Shakspeare, The Iliad.
... a book on French art. So
what? he told himself. Some of
the Japs were cultured people.
We knew that. But it didn’t
seem to make any difference.
They still acted like savages.
What if the old lady had lost
her husband and three sons?
That didn’t make any differ-
ence, either. They started the
bloody war. Let them pay for
it. Go on paying for it, year
after year, for a hundred years!
“Would you like tea?” Mrs.
Yukichi was saying. “My
husband will not be long now.”
King nodded. His mouth felt
parched, as he could feel the
pressure of emotion building
up inside him.
She went into a little annex
and put a kettle on a gas-ring.
As he wandered round the
room, feeling his size exag-
gerated by its smallness, he
heard the clatter of crockery.
Then the children came burst-
ing in, their cheeks rosy from
the cold outside. He had
stopped in front of the piano,
and they came crowding round
him curiously.
He frowned down on them,
wondering what to say. After
all, it wasn’t their war. They
weren’t born then.
“Do you play?” he said
awkwardly, indicating the open
piano.
“Oh, yes, please.”
The two girls each played
a piece, quite prettily, and he
applauded politely. Then a
sturdily built boy of about
eight years old came in from
another room.
“Jiro will play, too,” said the
elder girl, in just the same fussy,
elder-sister tone he remembered
his own sister using when they
were all children and Ken was
the baby.
The boy looked up at him
gravely, then made his own
funny little bob. He sat down
at the piano, lowered the stool
to suit his short legs, and began
laboring through “The
Swallows’ Return,” his dark,
shaven head down and his
bottom lip out-thrust. God,
thought King, his throat thick-
ening, that’s what mother tried
to teach us. None of us was
really musical. The way we
used to thump out pieces when
she wanted us to play for
visitors ... we must have
broken her heart.
Suddenly the boy slid down
from the stool and came
toward him.
“Would it please you to see
my stamps?”
Stamps? So the kids here
collected stamps, too. Mrs.
Yukichi and the two girls were
watching him with polite con-
cern. The guest must be enter-
tained, he told himself sardoni-
cally. Oh, sure. They trained
the kids 'to it pretty early here.
He nodded and followed
young Jiro into a tiny room
fitted only with a bunk, a table
and a corner-wardrobe. The
table was just as cluttered as
his own had been, save that
on one corner stood a tiny
aquarium. Everything was on
a minute scale. He found
himself wondering how fish
could be so small and still be
fish, brilliant and beautiful.
“Do you like fish?” the boy
asked him.
“Not very much.”
“Then I’ll show you my
stamps. My father gave me
his collection . . .”
He rummaged in a drawer,
and dragged out a battered
album.
“These first ones are before
the war. Nearly all of our
Emperor.”
King glanced at the page
casually. Yes, before the war.
He felt his muscles tense.
Before the war they’d tried to
interest Ken in stamps, in
music, in reading, anything to
keep him home at nights.
“This page is war stamps.
From Burma and Malaya.”
“Your father was in the
war?” Not that he needed to
ask, King reminded himself
fiercely. He’d checked-up too
carefully to have made a
mistake.
“Oh, yes, he was an inter-
preter. That’s why we
(Continued on next page)


all speak English.” The boy
grinned suddenly, his tongue
showing through the gaps in
his teeth. “Were you an
interpreter also?”
“No.” King’s voice was
grim now. “Just a soldier.
But I learnt a bit of your
language when I was a
prisoner-of-war.”
The boy’s tone was matter-
of-fact. “My father also was a
prisoner. For two years. That
is why he is sick.”
“Sick?”
“Yes, always he is sick.
Some days he cannot take his
classes at the university.”
King said nothing and Jiro
added cautiously:
“Would you be angry if I
asked you for some Australian
stamps?”
“No. I’ll see if I have any.”
He drew out a small packet
of letters and began to go
through them, tearing off a
stamp here and there.
“Do you want to be a sol-
dier, too?” he demanded
suddenly.
“Oh, no.” The boy had
closed his album and was peer-
ing at a box with a cellophane
top, in which there were hun-
dreds of insects neatly pinned
and labelled. “I wish to collect
these when I grow-up. My
father studied insects also,
before the war. What did you
do?”
“I grew wheat.” King’s tone
was discouraging.
“Oh, wheat. Like this . . .
come and see. This is Mr.
Takano’s farm.”
King followed him reluct-
antly to a side window. Down
below was a patch of wheat
the size of a tennis-court. He
stared incredulously.
Yes, it was wheat, all right.
But a farm . . . this patch of
land tucked away in a subur-
ban street. How often had he
stood at his own window and
gazed out across his wheat-
fields, stretching mile after
mile to the horizon. He began
to feel tired, unaccountably
weak. Yet he stood there, star-
ing at the wheat. God, if you
put a tractor in it, or a com-
bine . . . there wouldn’t be
standing-room left.
“My father was keeping it
for a tennis-court,” the boy
was saying. “But Mr. Takano
is a very poor person . .
He broke-off, exclaiming:
“My father is coming!” and
rushed from the room.
King saw a man in a dark-
blue suit turning in towards the
house. He was so small that
he did not seem much bigger
than his eight-year-old son,
who was stampeding down the
path to greet him, followed
more sedately by his two
sisters.
■pROM where he stood watch-
-*■ ing, King could see the
wizened yellow face light-up
with happiness as the children
clutched his hands on either
side. Apparently they told him
a foreigner was there, for he
glanced up sharply at the
windows.
For a moment King was
doubtful as to his identity.
Could he have made a mistake
after all? The man he was
seeking should be only about
35, not 55, as this man
appeared to be.
King turned away, angrily.
What was the matter with
him? Was he going soft now,
after coming all this way,
waiting all these years? What
did it matter if this man had
a wife and kids? So would’ve
Ken ... if he’d come back.
He returned to the living-room,
summoning-up the hate he’d
kept alive all these years, feed-
ing it, banking its fires. He’d
feel it, all right, once he caught-
up with Sergeant Nobu.
Mrs. Yukichi met him at the
door.
“This is my husband, Mr.
King. Mr. King has come
from Australia!”
The two men stood looking
at one another. Neither spoke.
The homey, lived-in room
disappeared, and King was
speaking to young Lieutenant
Yukichi through the wood-
and-bamboo fence of their
stockade. Yelling at him,
cursing, threatening . . . Tell
them to lay off! Let Ken
alone ... he was only fooling!
He’s just a kid. Christ, do
something!
Then the machine - guns
turned, facing the stockade. It
was all of them, or Ken. The
eyes of a hundred other
prisoners turned to him, silent,
questioning . . . the sound of
blows ceased.
A captain had come up,
ordering Yukichi curtly away.
King could remember hearing
him being sick behind his tent.
They’d let them bury Ken
that night, detailed a working-
party from the prisoners. Even
then he’d sworn to get every-
one responsible. Especially
Nobu. So had the others. But
they had forgotten. The war
had been over a long time.
“You remember me,
Lieutenant?”
King’s face was grim and
strained.
The Japanese made as
though to extend his hand.
Then let it fall limply by his
side.
“Will you sit down?”
Reluctantly King lowered
his massive frame on to one
of the frail chairs. Professor
Yukichi carefully arranged
himself on another, his stiff leg
sticking out in front of him
like an accusing finger.
“You know why I’ve
come?”
King’s words fell like blows
on the quietness of the room.
Like the sound of blows? Yes
. . . hate rose, relentless, unfor-
giving. He mustn’t forget,
fbrget what he’d come for.
“1 think so.” The other’s
eyes did not fall. His face
was impassive.
“Sergeant Nobu.” The
knuckles on King’s hands
showed white. “They com-
muted his life-sentence. But
that won’t save him! He may
have escaped the military
authorities, but not me. Where
is he?”
Professor Yukichi raised
himself and limped wearily to
the window. King followed
him in a few long strides.
“Come on! Tell me! I
know how you fellows stick
together . . .”
“Soldiers do.” The other’s
tone was mild. “It is all they
have.”
“You’d better tell me . . .”
King took the revolver from
his pocket. “I figured he’d
come to you . . . the only one
left.”
“Yes, he did come to me.
He was destitute. He had a
wife and family. No one
would give them work.”
“Why? I’d have thought
he’d get a hero’s welcome.”
King tried to sneer, but his
voice fell flat.
“People shun him. They are
ashamed . ..”
“That’s something, anyway.”
Suddenly King felt a fool,
towering over this wisp of a
man, a revolver in his hand.
He slipped it back into his
pocket.
“Nobu only carried-out his
orders. When the wind of
madness blew, how could he
resist it, a poor ignorant
peasant? ”
“Don’t try to make excuses
for him. He’ll get what’s
coming to him. Or you will.
Tell me, where is he hiding-
out?”
Yukichi moved aside from
the window. “Look,” he said,
At first King could see noth-
ing but the ridiculous field
of wheat. Then, at one end,
he made out a figure bending
down, an old bag across its
shoulders against the fine
drizzle which had set-in. So
shapeless and huddled did it
look that at first King took
it to be just another of the
tiny weathered haystacks he’d
seen dotted around the
countryside.
Then it moved, and came
shuffling round the edge of
the wheat. It looked like a
thing, not a man. As though
conscious it was being watched,
it raised its head and stared
up at the window. Under the
soggy bag, long lank hair hung
like coarse pieces of string, and
a thin beard straggied from
the chin. The face had the
absent, impenetrable look of a
coolie, of one who had known
the lowest depths and whose
heart is closed even to despair.
“Are you sure that’s Nobu?”
demanded King suspiciously.
“Your boy said someone called
Takano owned that farm . . .”
His tongue tripped over the
word'. It was fantastic, laugh-
able. No, not laughable.
“Yes.” The professor’s voice
was that of one who had gone
beyond the necessity of lying.
“He changed his name. He
was illiterate, not very intelli-
gent. It was better like that
in the ranks of the Japanese
Army.” He paused. “When
his rank and uniform were
stripped from him, he was
nothing. First he just sat in
the streets and begged, until
the police threatened to shut
him up. His wife came to me.
There were two of their 10
children left. They were starv-
ing. For their sake, I gave him
{Continued on page 49)
MACHINE
Once, when you were bushed
and thirsty
You loosed the reins and
trusted —
And maybe your horse found
water.
Now when your car’s out of
petrol
It wont find a bowser.
A machine’s a tale you can tell;
Life holds surprises.
A machine comprises
What was foretold —
And made cold.
Q-
R. G. HAY.


Christianising the Abo.
The Warrup Experiment
By W. CHARNLEY
AN idea held by the
Colonial Office, London,
during the early part of
last century was that a
river, approximating to the
size of the Nile, flowed into
the Indian Ocean somewhere
between Cape Londonderry on
the extreme north of Western
Australia and North West
Cape.
So, in 1838, Grey—he had
been seriously wounded by a
native spear in an earlier
exploration—headed an expedi-
tion of 12 members, including
18-year-old Frederick Smith, a
devoted hero-worshipper who
had travelled from England
expressly to join-in with Grey.
Young Smith was a cousin to
Florence Nightingale, then
unknown to fame.
• On this second expedition
Grey again met with bad
weather, as in the early one.
No sooner had he discovered
and named the Gascoyne River
than a series of terrific nor’-
westers poured down, spoiling
most of his provisions. With
rations barely sufficient for 100
miles of travel, on foot, the
party faced nearly 300 on their
southward retreat.
With all food gone, Grey
decided to divide his party,
leaving some, including
Frederick Smith, under the
command of Dr. Walker, and
taking four with him, including
a Swan River native, Kaiber.
Had it not been for this black,
knowledgeable in the finding
of food in the wilderness, Grey
would have perished from
starvation.
Eventually Kaiber brought
Grey to the beginnings of
settlement, not far from Perth.
Here food given by settlers
enabled Grey to struggle on to
Perth, where his utter exhaus-
tion found him an immediate
place in the hospital.
/'Vne or two parties, native
” and white, had failed in
attempts to take relief to Sur-
geon Walker’s party before
Surveyor-General Roe set out
with two aboriginal brothers,
Warrup and Wyap, as trackers.
Both in their early ’teens,
these boys did excellent work
in tracing back the footprints
of Dr. Walker. Some perish-
ing whites were thus found, and
fed ; but Frederick Smith was
missing. He had fallen back,
the survivors said, a couple
of days before, somewhere up
the beach.
Warrup led the way up the
beach and found a line of
tracks leading into the sand-
dunes. Here young Smith had
crawled to rest, and to die.
A large sea-eagle perched on
the dead boy’s head. Warrup
shot it. Then, as the whites
stood by, he and his brother,
with their hands, scooped out
the grave in which Frederick
Smith still rests.
When Grey recovered he
felt that so fine a man as
Warrup had proved on that
expedition should not be con-
demned to return to the sloth
of the native camp. Sharing
bachelor-quarters with Ensign
Webb, of the 29th Regiment,
Grey installed Warrup as bat-
man ; outfitted him with a
white steward’s uniform ; intro-
duced him to the use of soap,
and to the brush and comb for
the luxuriant black hair which,
like a woman’s, reached half-
way down his back,
Cjo Warrup, clean, neat, ever
polite, speaking English as
perfectly as Grey himself,
became a feature of early
Perth. He was given the name
of John.
His brother, Wyap (Jimmy),
would, however, have none of
this. Disdaining patronage
from the whites, he clung to
the aboriginal ways and camps.
Being disengaged much of
the day, Warrup earned money
by acting as messenger to the
Governor and to other officials.
Very little of this pocket-money
was he able to keep ; his numer-
ous relations demanded their
share —sixpence here, sixpence
there. Warrup, however, was
still able to smile when all was
gone.
The tribe, too, demanded his
obedience to ancient customs.
Thus one morning Webb and
Grey arose to breakfast; this
had been prepared, but on the
"Broughl-up in a tent?”
back veranda, neatly folded,
lay Warrup’s uniform. Six
weeks later he returned, donned
his uniform, but with no
explanation as to where he had
been. Grey and Webb knew
—the elders of the tribe had
called; Warrup had gone to
complete his initiation into
manhood.
Again, some time later, he
returned home with his uni-
form dirty, his face scratched
and bleeding. This time he
explained. He had been
accosted by his brother and
others of the tribe, with a
demand that he leave service
for the whites and return to
the tribe. Refusing, he had
resisted the attempt to drag
him forcibly away.
TTere the Law stepped in.
Contrary to modern ideas,
those days of the now-remote
1830’s and 1840’s saw the
presence of a Protector of
Aborigines in Perth, and indeed
in every populous settlement
in Australia. No empty job,
but one adequately paid—
from the Imperial Exchequer.
A warning from this official,
and Warrup was allowed to go
his own way.
Far from being the persecu-
tors, butchers, poisoners of the
aborigines, as much modern
propaganda would have us
believe, the early fathers, and
particularly mothers, most of
them, of the Australian nation,
were keen to do their best for
the original owners of the soil.
Around Perth it was cus-
tomary for such households as
could afford it to adopt a girl
child, willingly parted with by
the tribe, and teach her the
ways of civilised living: ade-
quate clothing ; the use of soap
and water, brush and comb ;
the arts of sewing and cook-
ing. One such girl was Mary
Tayup.
Mary and John, going their
ways in the Perth that was then
little more than a village, be-
came friendly ; developed affec-
tion ; met at the Wesley
Church each Sunday; walked
home together.
The pastor of the Wesleys
(Continued on page 45)


New Homes for Old
Redevelopment on the March
By ADRIAN WINTLE
Nine Sydney architects and town-
planners (including Lyle Dunlap,
Harry Seidler and Ivan Seifert)
have come-up with a booklet
titled “Urban Redevelopment Concerns
You!” —20 shiny pages of text and
photos setting out a case for inner-
suburban replanning, with particular
reference to the McMahon’s Point-
Lavender Bay area, on the northern fore-
shore of Sydney Harbor.
The avowed aim is to minimise
Sydney’s horizontal expansion by urban
renewal; the booklet states that “more
than 200,000 additional dwellers could
be rehoused in the inner areas of Sydney
without overcrowding; another 200,000
could be accommodated in other areas
of Sydney on vacant properties where
essential services are already provided.”
In any such scheme economic factors
must be .taken into account: transport,
communications, accessibility to business
centres, etc. Probably the most important
basic consideration is the desire or other-
wise of residents to undergo rehousing—
the most ambitious redevelopment scheme
will fall flat if the people affected don’t
want it.
The proposed changeover in the
vicinity of Milson’s Point from a sprawl-
ing underdense mass of single home-units
to an array of high-density tower-blocks
and 12-story maisonettes seems likely to
meet with at least local approval. Resi-
dents are opposed to industrial zoning ;
in 1956 there was a move to locate a
cement-works on the foreshore. In
February of that year the McMahon’s
Point and Lavender Bay Progress Asso-
ciation was founded, and a petition
signed by nearly 2000 residents was sub-
mitted to the Minister for Local Govern-
ment asking that the cement-works be
not allowed and that the area be re-
zoned as residential.
Finally the association enlisted the help
of a group of architects and prepared a
planning-scheme of its own. This re-
development project was first presented
to the public in an exhibition in August,
1957.
But the ideas set out in the booklet
are by no means primarily products of
recent thought. As far back as 1923
a report was made at a town-planning
congress in Strasbourg, and several posi-
tive recommendations were put forward:
(1) We must de-congest our cities in
order to provide for the needs of traffic ;
(2) increase the density of centres of
cities in order to bring about the close
contact demanded by business; (3)
increase the means whereby traffic can
circulate, and (4) increase the area of
green and open space. Add to these
points the need to limit the spread of
the city and to rejuvenate decaying
suburbs, and the report is even more
applicable today than 36 years ago.
So much for theory and proposition:
what about the final product? Granted
that the proposed buildings are cleaner,
brighter and infinitely more “modem”;
but what’s the degree of privacy? Surely
some of the rehoused people would soon
tire of communal recreation-areas and
parks?
And, turning over a few pages, one
finds a counter-explanation: “People in
As visualised by the architects, a rejuvenated McMahon’s Point.
desperate need of homes are forced to
accept the suburban cottage because alter-
native accommodation in central areas is
not available. Thousands of Sydney’s
residents have expressed a preference for
life in districts such as the unplanned but
popular high-density area of Elizabeth
Bay.”
Elizabeth Bay is popular as a living-
area, and it seems logical that
McMahon’s Point, if subjected to a
planned face-lift, could be equally
popular.
The architects stress improved cultural
and social life in inner-suburban rebuild-
ing. Among adverse points outlined in
average outer-suburban development
(separate house for each family) are high
municipal rates, high cost of transport,
long hours in travel to and from work,
inadequate and often primitive services,
traffic-congestion, lack of community
facilities and inconvenient location of
shops, schools, etc.
A bulging satchel of shortcomings,
And to top it off it’s estimated that
the County of Cumberland has to find
housing for an additional 35,000 persons
every year, apart from the replacement
of thousands of existing and obsolescent
homes.
So the architects, in advocating re-
developed inner-suburbs “with easy
access to all the enriching things that a
city can provide” are on pretty sensible
ground,
McMahon’s Point is an area in which
more than half the property is in its
tertiary stages of decay. Large slabs of
land, overgrown and unused, are being
held for future speculation. On paper,
no area in Sydney is better suited for
immediate redevelopment. Transport to
the city is practically at the door.
If the architects’ scheme comes-off
most of the accommodation will be
centred in 12-story maisonettes (those
squat, narrow structures in the photo-
graph). They will have central corridors
at every third-floor, giving access to an
interlocking system of maisonettes and
flats ; cross-ventilation throughout.
Orientation will be north-south, so as
to give each flat a combination of sun
on the north and view to the south.
Parking-floors would be provided under
each building.
The eight tall, narrow buildings in the
picture are 22-story tower-blocks, located
{Continued on page 45)


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Over to Caulfield
Of all Australia’s important
handicaps, perhaps none is
more truly a “good horse’s”
race than the Caulfield Cup.
Next Saturday’s Cup will carry
£12,000 stakemoney, plus a
gold cup valued at £350.
No fewer than 11 of the last
21 Caulfield Cup winners have
started favorite. Five-year-olds
have done best, with 28 wins ;
four-year-olds, 20; six-year-
olds, 14 ; three-year-olds, 10 ;
aged horses, 9.
“Scobie” Breasley, now so
successful in England, had a
wonderful record in the Caul-
field Cup—he won it five
times. Frank Dempsey, these
days starter to the V.R.C., rode
three winners. Redcraze holds
the w'eight-carrying record —
9.13, in 1956. Last year, in
his wonderful win, Tulloch set
new time - figures—2.26 9/10,
race and Australian record for
a mile-and-a-half. That win-
ning ride on Tulloch made N.
Sellwood’s score in the Caul-
field Cup three winners.
In looking for this year’s
Caulfield Cup winner it is
worth remembering that the
race is run at a fast clip from
barrier to the line ; horses that
drop back early face a tremen-
dous task to come around a
big field and win. That is why
Skyline, who proved in the
A.J.C. Derby that he is a fast
stayer, is ruling favorite.
However, despite Tulloch’s
success last year, the Caulfield
Cup is not a good race for
colts. Lord Gavin has the
necessary qualifications —he
won at w.f.a. over a mile, and
won last year’s Moonee Valley
Cup over 13 furlongs. There
is one proviso about Lord
Gavin—the track must be
firm; he’s useless in heavy
going. At time of writing
(unless the penalty puts him
out), dual Derby winner and
this year’s Metropolitan winner
Monte Carlo seems the danger,
and • as a proved w.-f.-a. per-
former, Prince Darius merits
respect.
• • • •
For the Caulfield Cup: Lord
Gavin, 1 ; Monte Carlo, 2;
Prince Darius, 3.
Today (Wednesday) is the
second day of the V.A.T.C.
carnival, main race the nine-
furlongs Caulfield Stakes. In
alternate years since 1952 the
Stakes winner has gone on to
take the Cup—Peshawar, in
1952 ; Rising Fast, in 1954, and
Redcraze in 1956. Earlier,
Amounis (1930), Tranquil Star
(1942) and Columnist (1947)
won the same double. Today’s
field should be a classy bunch.
“And I say I had the right-of-way !”
Lord is not entered in the
Cup, but he is here fancied to
prove himself in the Caulfield
Stakes the best middle-distance
horse at present racing in
Australia.
Wiggle’s win last Saturday
was one of the best perform-
ances ever seen in the Caulfield
Guineas. Locked in on the
rails as the field straightened-
up, with the leaders careering
away from her, Wiggle seemed
to lose all chance as she was
buffeted when jockey Ted
Preston tried to pull her out.
Preston, however, then drove
her through a narrow gap
between two tiring horses,
switched her outside the leader,
But Beautiful, and over the
last 50yds. the champion filly
came right away.
• • • •
Wiggle is the first filly to
win the Caulfield Guineas
since 1920. Upsetting precedent
is, of course, nothing new for
the Rego filly ; when she won
the Stradbroke in Brisbane last
July she was the first two-year-
old to win that race since 1916.
The £3500 first-prize in the
Guineas took her stake-earn-
ings to £19,755. She has every
chance of passing True
Course’s stake-winning record
for a three-year-old filly
(£24,054). From fourteen
starts, Wiggle has had "nine
wins, and is a bargain buy at
the 360gns. she cost as a
yearling.
• • • •
Melbourne filly But Beauti-
ful’s third in the Guineas was
a notable run. She is unlucky.
In most years she would be
the outstanding filly, but it
looks as if she will have to give
way to Wiggle in the classic
events for her age and sex.
Melbourne bookmakers have
learned to respect the Gim-
crack Stakes winner; so that
this year’s winner, Endure,
went out a 3-to-l-on favorite
in the Debutante Stakes at
Caulfield. The Star Kingdom
filly landed the money, but
her victory was made easier
when another Star Kingdom
filly, the Victorian-owned Rit-
mar, missed the start. Ritmar
ran to Endure on the turn, but
the effort told, and the Sydney
filly drew away to win well.
Both fillies are very good.
Winning time of 47.9/10 for
the four furlongs was remark-
able. The track had been
drenched by a full day’s rain
on the Friday, and throughout
Saturday rain fell heavily in
intermittent showers. Track-
record for the half-mile is 47|.
Endure, who brought 2500gns.
at the Sydney sales, is owned
by H. E. Tancred and his wife
in partnership with former
swimming champion W. Long-
worth.
Victorian breeders took heart
again from Fast Gun’s win in
the first heat of the Debutant
Stakes. Fast Gun, from Sea
Venture by Empyrean (leading
Victorian sire. last year), is
raced by V.A.T.C. committee-
man Sir Rupert Clarke, who
won the same race in 1954 with
Guncotton. Fast Gun won
very easily, but the field was
not strong, and too much value
should not be placed on the
win. Later on the Orgoglio
colt Pride (from Aversion),
who came home strongly to
run third, may do well.
• • • •
In the second heat of the
Debutant favorite Sartorial
Splendour, who had won easily
at Flemington the week before,
finished a bad last. The colt
looked very distressed, and
stewards ordered a swab.
Winner, in most impressive
style, was the Star Kingdom
colt Royal Artist. A massive
brown colt, Royal Artist is
from Canvas Back, and is a
full-brother to Kingster. He
equalled Endure’s time for the
four furlongs—and the track
was slower by the time Royal
Artist ran. He may prove one
of the best colts out this spring.
Although it has not really
been a sound guide to the big
race, winners of the £3OOO mile
Toorak Handicap have occa-
sionally gone on to win the
Caulfield Cup; among them,
Grey Boots, Royal Gem and
The Trump. Last Saturday’s
winner was Tudor Hill, and if
he is lucky enough to get the
same conditions next Saturday
he will give the Caulfield Cup
a great shake ; he improves a
stone in heavy going. He
carried 8.12 in the Toorak and
drops to 7.13 in the Cup, a
lenient impost for this good
five-year-old chestnut entire.
* * *
Sydney Wind-up
Benefiting by the experience
of her first start, when she
finished seventh to Endure after
a check at the home-turn in the
Gimcrack Stakes, Rosehill-
trained' Chateau Clair defeated
Sweet Victory and Sahibah in
last Saturday’s A.J.C. Widden
Stakes (two-year-old fillies) at
Randwick. Trained by Jack
Daniels for R. C. Reid and
Mrs. Reid, the filly was first of
the progeny of Good Brandy
(imp.) to come under the
hammer at the Randwick sales
last Easter, when she brought
425gns. She’s from Poliment by
Newtown Wonder (imp.) from
Politesse by Lord Quex (imp.).
Poliment is a sister to Cultured,
whose wins included the 1953
Newmarket Handicap ; she had
also won the Gimcrack Stakes
and December Stakes at Rand-
wick. Good Brandy is by
Rockefella (son of Hyperion)
from Toujours by Cillas


Positions Vacant
LAND SURVEYOR: GOVERN-
MENT OF HONG KONG
A vacancy exists for a Land
Surveyor who is required to have
a licence to practise as a surveyor
and at least one year’s experience
after qualifying. He should be
under 45 years of age.
Duties: To carry out under the
direction of an Assistant Director,
or the Superintendent of Crown
Lands and Surveys, trigonometrical,
topographical and cadastral surveys;
township surveys and layout; pre-
cise and other levelling; prepara-
tion and production of maps; road
location and reconnaissance surveys
for public works; training and
supervision of Chinese surveyors in
the field and office.
Terms of appointment: On pro-
bation to the pensionable establish-
ment with emoluments in the scale
£1,245-£2,179 p.a. (stg.), plus cost
of living allowance. Tree passages.
Quarters provided at rental if
available. Free medical attention.
Generous'fieave. Taxation at low
local rates.
Application forms obtainable
from Professor Z. Cowen,
University of Melbourne.
SCIENTIFIC OFFICER: GOV-
ERNMENT OF HONG KONG
There is a vacancy for a Scientific
Officer at fhe Royal Observatory,
Hong Kong. Candidates should
have an honours degree in Physics
or Mathematics, preferably with a
post-graduate course in meteorology
and one year’s post-graduate experi-
ence is required. Candidates should
not be over 30 years of age. Duties
of the post are general scientific
duties including independent fore-
casting.
Terms of appointment: On pro-
bation to the pensionable establish-
ment with emoluments in the scale
£ 1,095-£2,179 p.a. (stg.). Cost of
living allowance. Free passages.
Quarters provided at rental if
available. Free medical attention.
Generous leave. Taxation at low
local rates.
Application forms obtainable
from Professor Z. Cowen,
University of Melbourne.
LAND SURVEYORS:
Vacancies exist for Land Sur-
veyors in the Federation of Nigeria
and in the Eastern, Western and
Northern Regions of Nigeria.
Candidates are required to possess
a licence to practise as a surveyor
and the duties may include super-
vising and carrying out geodetic,
topographical and cadastral surveys,
including mapping from air photo-
graphs and by ground methods on
all scales.
Terms of appointment: On con-
tract terms with gratuity payable
on the satisfactory completion of
the contract. In the Western Region
contracts may be for three tours
(of 18-24 months each). Salary
according to experience in the scale
£B7O-£1,824 (stg.). In the Federal
Service the entry point is £l,OOB,
and in the Western Region £1,128.
Outfit allowance. Free passages.
Quarters provided if available at
rental. Free medical attention.
Generous leave. Taxation at low
local rates.
Application forms obtainable
from Professor Z. Cowen,
University of Melbourne.
(French Derby). Delville Wood
(imp.), leading sire in Australia
for the past five seasons, figures
in Good Brandy’s pedigree.
. • ‘ ’ • •
Fine and Dandy, winner of
the A.J.C. Canonbury Stakes, is
being raced by his breeders,
W. F. and F. H. Moses, of
Fairways Stud, Muswellbrook
(N.S.W.), who appear to have
retained a potential champion
sprinter—one that might soon
be trouncing the best two-year-
olds ; he will take most of them
on in the V.R.C. Maribyrnong
Plate, a real test for juveniles.
It would now seem that his
stablemate, Front Cover, was
lucky to have beaten him in the
Breeders’ Plate.
Fine and Dandy handed out
a galloping lesson to the rest in
the Canonbury on Saturday.
He covered the five furlongs in
59|sec., time rarely run and
not far from the Australian
record. Fine and Dandy is by
Star Kingdom (imp.) from
Shading by Brueghel (It.) from
Gold Tinge by Claro (imp.).
Another Star Kingdom—Star
Eagle—was second. Star King-
dom, a brilliant galloper, won
nine races in England, includ-
ing five out of six as a two-
year-old. Most of his progeny
have been noted for brilliance.
Skyline, who won the A.J.C.
Derby for him, probably gets
his staying power from the
dam’s side of the pedigree,
being from Flight’s Daughter.
Though Macdougal started
favorite and won the Queen’s
Cup at Randwick, there could
have been a different story had
G. Podmore, the rider of
Forest Stream, been able to
restrain his mount in the early
stages. As it was, Macdougal
won easily, giving N. Mc-
Growdie yet another addition
to his extraordinary list of Cup
successes.
Fearing a penalty for the
Melbourne Cup, Caranna’s
owners played safe and took
the six-year-old from the
Queen’s Cup. The A.J.C.
might well guard against a
similar happening in future.
Reduction of the stakemoney
by £250 would have prevented
the winner incurring a Cup
penalty. This important aspect
of racing should be closely
watched by racing executives,
to ensure customers see the
best horses in line-ups.
Port Vista (imp.) is the sire
of some of the fastest sprinters
to race in Sydney in recent
years, the list including Gay
Port, Gay Vista and My Peter.
Gay Port, probably the best
sprinter in Australia, recently
won at Rosehill in brilliant
fashion. His former stable-
mate Gay Vista, a top winner
on Sydney tracks, also won
races in America. Doing all
right back in the saddle again,
Bill Cook has ridden My Peter
in his latest good wins, includ-
ing Saturday’s Chester Handi-
cap at Randwick. My Peter
is from Flying Three by Con-
fessor (imp.) from Flying
Figure by Mosaic, and his
family includes a brilliant per-
former of earlier years, Figure,,
a winner of the Oakleigh
Plate.
Two apprentices, R. Patter-
son and P. Ryan, winning on
Point Row and Salt Spray
respectively on the final A.J.C.
day, both displayed skill in
bringing their mounts to the
winning-post with strong finish-
ing runs.
• • •
Though the Randwick
attendance dropped on the first
two days of the Derby carni-
val, the club was pleased to
find a slight increase on the
final day, while the crowd on
the third day—fashion-day for
the ladies —was up to standard.
All (old, 141,000 attended on
the four days, but it’s hard to
understand the small fields in
some races, when so many
hundreds of horses are in
training at the five Sydney
courses, one of which, Rose-
bery, is used exclusively by
the S.T.C. for training. There
are about 150 horses at Rose-
bery alone. Win and place
investments on the tote rose
by £30,000 to £458,000, but
the doubles - tote punting
dropped by more than £20,000
to £201,000 compared with
1957. When clubs revert to
doubles and quinellas on a ss.
basis they will find hundreds
more patrons at these windows.
Five-year-old mare Coal,
trained at Rosebery by A. F.
(“Nipper”) Berry, must be
tough; when she won the
A.J.C. Sydney Handicap (1£
mile) she was making her sixth
appearance in about as many
weeks. She looked bright and
fit as she went to the starting-
barrier for that race, and she
won in good style. She had
won at Warwick Farm on
August 23, then was second
on three occasions—at Canter-
bury, Randwick and Kembla.
The consistent mare is a first-
acceptor for the Melbourne
Cup, and on 7st. has 71b. above
the limit. She was unplaced
in the Metropolitan with 7.2
(21b. above the minimum).
She is related to a Melbourne
Cup winner, Piastre, and to
Caulfield Cup winner Amounis.
New Zealand-bred Comte
De Paris had four starts at
Sydney meetings for a second
and a win in the A.J.C.
Members’ Handicap (restricted
to three-year-olds). The colt
won in New Zealand last
December, and is a promising
galloper; his Randwick win
was most impressive. He’s
related to Hiraji (Melbourne
Cup) and to Gold Scheme
(Sydney Cup). Trainer Larry
Wiggins has many Sydney
racing-folk on his side in an
opinion that Comte De Paris
is likely to win in the best
company over middle-distances
and in longer races this season.
Jim Pike and Jim Munro
each landed four Craven Plate
winners, and on Prince Darius
George Moore equalled the
performance of those two
notable jockeys. Moore had
previously scored on Caranna,
Tarien and Playboy.
* * *
Racing Absurdity!
Weights for the Caulfield Cup
and Melbourne Cup are based
on a 6.7 limit, yet there’s no
jockey, other than teenage
apprentices, who can ride at
such a paperweight. In fact,
few riders can take a mount
at less than 7st., which is the
minimum for important Sydney
handicaps. In minor events the
lowest handicap - weight is
frequently 7.3, or thereabouts.
In the face of this, why persist
with a 6.7 limit in any race?
On rare occasions an appren-
tice has won the Melbourne
Cup. Between 1861 (first Mel-
bourne Cup) and 1881 a few
horses won the two-miler with
6.7 or less, but since 1881 the
only real lightweights to win
the Cup have been Sister Olive
and Night Watch, both with
6.9, and Lord Cardigan with
lib. less. The 6.7 limit should
have vanished with elastic-side
boots and mutton - chop
whiskers.
In the latest A.J.C. Metro-
politan Handicap riders of the
four horses lowest in the
weights all carried over the 7st.
limit. ' The V.R.C. has ruled
that in all minor handicaps at
the coming Melbourne Cup
meeting other than the Railway
Highweight the lowest weight
will be 7.5. Other leading clubs
should adopt this plan. Mean-
time, the 6.7 handicapping basis
remains an absurdity.


S 3
.
s -xm ■
aywt..
■. -
wwwßr mwHWCTiffITO
| U §pg - -
:
rfS
-
m
5
!3*K
c^e
£
£o
_-f-f M t'
■SvTCvI
few:
•'■ ; .v
i’s
%i£ :
cofcA
%
jMSfft
ii
MWiMoT
Ch
s&b
*7fS
fitfA/O
sc or,
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES, DISTILLED & BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd., Distillers, Perth , Scotland. Est. 1825
Other Sports
Last year’s Sydney G.P.S.
athletic meeting was domin-
ated by St. Joseph’s sprinter
Jim McCann (later selected in
Australia’s 1958 Empire Games
team), who won four events
and ran a flashing last-leg of
the 440yds. relay. Winner of
tffe 440yds., in record-time,
and second behind McCann in
the 100yds. and 220yds. was
Don Bursill, of Scots, who was
the outstanding senior per-
former this year —the 100yds.,
220yds. (in 21.25ec., beating
McCann’s 1956 G.P.S. record
21.6 sec. and equalling John
Treloar’s 1946 Australian junior
record), the 440yds. (equalling
his record 48.95ec.) and a
speedy last-leg of the 440yds.
relay, won by Scots. Bruce
Harland (Joey’s) won high-
jump and broad-jump—first
time a Joey’s boy has ever won
the high-jump —while Shore’s
lan McCausland, as expected,
won the mile. Scots won the
senior points - score, which
Joey’s has won for the past
three years, and St. Ignatius
took-out junior honors.
r * *
There are no surprises in the
N.S.W. Sheffield Shield team
to meet Queensland. N.S.W.
has such a lot of talent avail-
able that some good-’uns had
to miss-out. Craig and Watson
were unavailable through ill-
ness, and O’Neill will be play-
ing against the M.C.C. in
Perth. Harvey will play his
first Shield game for N.S.W.
A lot of interest centred in the
naming of the captain: it’s to
be Richie Benaud, who has led
the State team before. A good
pick, as Benaud is not only a
great cricketer but a thought-
ful student of the game;
though either Harvey or Sid
Carroll (who skippered N.S.W.
to Shield victory last year)
would have been an equally
sound choice.
_ “Atala”: Australia’s second-
string wicketkeeper in South
Africa last season, Barry Jar-
man, began in Adelaide
district-cricket this year with a
131 (out of 165 while he was
at the wicket). The next-
highest score on the day in
Adelaide’s A-grade was 55.
Incidentally, there should be an
interesting tussle for the posi-
tion of Australian Test-’keeper
between former Test-man Len
Maddocks (available again)
and Queensland’s Wally Grout,
who did such fine work behind
the sticks in S’Africa. Hard
to say which of the two will
get the big job—Jarman, too,
who should become a Test-
cricketer in time, could also be
in the running.
“K.R.”: At one point in a
recent Northern Districts (Syd-
ney) junior cricket-match in
which I was playing, between
West Ryde and Eastwood
Hardware Store, two West
Ryde bowlers each had taken
two wickets with following
balls, and were thus “sweating”
on the hat-trick together. I
have never heard of that hap-
pening in any grade of cricket
anywhere. The first bowler’s
two victims had come with the
last two balls of an over, and
the bowler from the other end
actually became liable for a
shout With the first three balls
of the next over which
finished-off the innings.
* * *
“M.W.” on Rugby Union in
Perth:
After 20min. extra time had to be
played, University won Perth’s
Rugby Union grand-final, beating
Western Suburbs M-8 in a game in
which neither side showed to par-
ticular advantage.
Western Suburbs has been un-
lucky in that this was the fourth
year in the last eight in which it has
been defeated in the grand-final.
Army, a new club, did well for its
first season.
A more interesting was the
B-grade final, in which Royal Perth
Hospital defeated Hellenic 6-3.
Both teams are new to Rugby
Union, R.P.H. having been formed
only this year. Though playing
B-grade, it would have been good
enough to beat any of the A-grade
teams. It could have shown points
in good honest forward play to
most of the senior teams.
Rugby Union is, on the whole,
played very cleanly in W.A., and
is making steady if not spectacular
progress.
* * *
“Rossby”: The final of Mel-
bourne Soccer’s Dockerty Cup,
between Juventus and Wilhel-
mina, ended in a 2-all draw ;
replay to follow. Just before
half-time mounted police had
to ride onto the field to restore
order after the ref. had ruled
half-time a few minutes too
early. Juventus and Wilhel-
mina also played-off in the
State League’s final the previ-
ous week, when they also drew,
2-all, after extra time. Replay
in that case, too.
“Ailsey”: Cessnock’s 4-2
defeat of Leichhardt in the
final of the N.S.W. Soccer
premiership (B. 8/10/’5B)
marked the retirement of Jack
Drinkwater, one of Cessnock’s
star players for years. He
scored a brilliant goal as a
final act. Drinkwater was late
earning Test-selection, but in
his first Test, against Hong
Kong in 1957, he kicked three
goals. He is to concentrate on
coaching. The name Jack
Drinkwater has been well
known in N.S.W. Northern
Coalfields Soccer for the past
30 years or so, as an uncle and
an unrelated contemporary of
the uncle (both Jack Drink-
water) have been prominent in
that time.
* * *
“Judee”Some of his friends
are wondering if Labor Senator
J. J. Arnold, of Newcastle
(N.S.W.), is keeping the right
“company,” and whether this
will affect his chances in next
month’s Senate poll. He is
vice-president of Newcastle
National Football League—
Australian Rules in “hostile”
territory. The Senator, how-
ever, isn’t worrying overmuch.
At the league’s presentation-
night he handed over the J. J.
Arnold Cup to Graham Sut-
cliffe, who had set a New South
Wales record for goal-kicking.
The national code is gaining
ground in Newcastle district
schools.
* * *
“Veryl”: At Bathurst
(N.S.W.) on Oct. 6 Victorian
racing driver Lex Davison, in
a Ferrari, won his third Aus-
tralian Grand Prix. He covered
the 116-mile Mt. Panorama
circuit in 85min. 18.4 sec. He
has now won the Grand Prix
three times, his previous wins
being in 1954 and 1957. Two
other drivers have won the
Grand Prix three times —W. B.
Thompson (1930-32-33) and D.
Whiteford (1950-52-53).
* * *
On Friday night, at West
Melbourne Stadium, N.S.W.
lightweight champion Stan
Hayward easily outpointed
Victorian Alf O’Sullivan, in a
dull fight in which both boxers
were cautioned several times
for holding. Hayward, who
hails from Lismore (N.S.W.)
and does most of his fighting
thereabouts, has had wins this
year over Queensland light-
weight champ. Alf Carey,
Italian Franco Rosini (revers-
ing an earlier loss), Johnny
Jarrett and Bert O’Keefe ; he
lost to George Flemming, pre-
sent holder of the national
featherweight title, at Ulmarra
last March. In his recent fights
O’Sullivan has also been beaten
by Rosini, but has had three
impressive k.o. wins, including
a third-round k.o. of Don
McDonnell.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
"AN ENDLESS PROCESSION"
/Commenting on the latest call
—this time from East
Germany—for discussions on
the reunification of Germany,
London “Daily Telegraph”
suggests that “whatever its
motives the East German
reminder can serve a useful
purpose for the West”:
“So long as the world’s
attention concentrates on the
Middle and Far East the Soviet
Union can expect to enjoy the
diplomatic offensive. But in
Europe the exact reverse is true.
It is the West which holds the
winning cards, and they are
only prevented from playing
them by the Russian refusal to
abide by the rules of the game.
Germany, of course, is the
Western ace. As the constant
stream of refugees from
Eastern Germany to the Federal
Republic demonstrates, unity
in freedom would mean unity
on Western terms. It is pre-
cisely because the Russians
know this that they cannot
allow it. That is why it should
be the constant aim of W estern
diplomacy to keep the German
problem before the eyes of the
world.”
Describing that “constant
stream of refugees,” London
“Time and Tide” points out
that “official East German
figures show that 82,000 men
and women between the ages
of 18 and 26 fled westwards
last year ; the loss of thousands
of this age-group will add
still further to East Germany's
production troubles, whicn
have become increasingly
serious.
“As a result of these losses
and their effect on industry,
the East German Government
has joined enthusiastically in
the general Communist drive
against ‘deviationists.’ But, in
fact, this return to Stalinist
methods has only served to
increase the flow westwards, and
large numbers of professional
people doctors, professors,
scientists and teachers are
escaping to West Berlin because
of ‘the intolerable political
pressure.’
“Since January this year
19,283 East Germans reached
the West; of these, 2300 are
intellectuals, including Pro-
fessor Haemel, rector of Jena
University, and his doctor wife.
Two-hundred members of the
senior and junior staffs of lead-
ing East German universities,
such as Jena, Leipzig and East
Berlin, are among those who
have sought asylum, as well as
many leading doctors,
“Doctors in East Germany
have been ordered by the
Government to reduce the sick-
ness ra te amongst the workers
industrial plants. In other
N.Y. “Herald Tribune"
APPEASEMENT ROAD
words, doctors are being held
responsible for the continued
lag in industrial output. In
answer to the resistance to
Communist control of the
Church, the Government is
sacking teachers who are
members of a Protestant
Church. Many university
lecturers have been threatened
with ‘compulsory’ factory
work in order to force them
to ‘regain contact with the
workers,’ and every East
German student above the age
of 11 will now spend one day
a week working in a factory or
on a farm. This has gone into
effect despite protests from
parents, teachers and factory
officials.
“Numbers of these refugees,
especially the younger Com-
munist-educated intellectuals
under 35, are not ‘pro-West,’ but
are still ardent Communists,
who have become tainted with
Titoism and refuse to accept
Russian infallibility. They
have become aware that the
Soviet Union, although the first
Socialist State in the-world, is
definitely not a model of a
Socialist State, and that Russia
exploits the hopes, longings
and grievances of other peoples
only in order to promote the
expansionist interests of Soviet
State policy.
“This strong trend towards
‘own roads to Socialism,’ of
which President Tito is the
symbol and for which the East
German Communist intellec-
tuals are voting with their feet
by coming westward, is
Moscow’s most vulnerable spot.
The trend is gaining strength
despite Moscow's violent doc-
trinaire opposition. When Mr.
Khrushchev and Mao Tse-tung
called Marshal Tito their
greatest danger, it was no idle
statement. Only recently
Marshal Tito warned his
countrymen against Russian
Trojan-horse tactics aimed at
breaking Yugoslavia’s national
unity from within. Tito is well
aware how much Russia
would welcome an internal
coup to depose him and divide
Yugoslavia between Hungary,
Bulgaria and Albania.”
Commenting further on the
East-West flow of refugees,
John Bland notes in “York-
shire Post” that “economically,
they are a growing burden on
the Federal Republic, which
enjoys a high degree of em-
ployment at present, but is
coming to dread the shadow df
redundancy ; and politically the
refugees form an unknown and
unstable quantity (at least until
they are integrated in a true
democracy) whose importance
may be measured by the fact
that they now form no less than
24 per cent, of the total popula-
tion.
“These are some of the prac-
tical difficulties. Overtopping
these, at least SO' far as the more
far-seeing West Germans are
concerned, is the receding like-
lihood of the two halves of
Germany ever being reunited.
As the Eastern Zone bleeds
away its resources of man-
power and intellectual ability,
so it becomes less German, less
capable of playing a part in
practical politics, more ripe for
plucking by greedy neighbors.”
Describing the escape-routes
of the refugees, the “U.S. News
and World Report,” an inde-
pendent weekly news-magazine
published in Washington,
estimates that “each day, on an
average, 700 persons are leaving
their homes and fleeing West.
Some escape through the
heavily policed forests of
Mecklenburg or Thuringia.
Others slip from East to West
through the side-streets of this
divided city. Hundreds more
board the subway trains in the
Eastern sector of Berlin—leav-
ing all behind —and emerge as
refugees at the subway stations
in West Berlin. They come
without possessions even a
suitcase might tip their flight
to the Communist police—and
enter a strange world to start
a new life.
“The saying among Germans
is that these people from the
East, fleeing from Communism,
are ‘voting with their feet.’
Many of today’s ‘voters’ are
schoolteachers, college pro-
fessors, doctors. In some cases,
whole classes of students with
their teachers have crossed the
line. Many of today’s refugees
are running from pressure
exerted by Moscow’s puppet
regime to impose Communist
doctrine in the field of educa-
tion and the professions.
“Over a nine-year period from
September, 1949, when regular
statistics first were started on
refugees, until August, 1958,
more than 2.1-million persons
have fled from East Germany.
Another million or so got out
earlier, in the four years


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines).
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
immediately following World
War 11. Far from tapering-off
in recent years, the number of
persons involved in the flight
from Communism has been on
the increase, as the Reds have
made one move after another
to tighten their grip on East
Germany.
“Today the main escape-
route is no longer the border
area of West Germany but the
dividing line between the East
and West sectors of Greater
Berlin. The Communists made
the direct route of flight to West
Germany tougher by tightening-
up on passports for people
wishing to ‘visit relatives’ or
‘do business.’ In addition, Red
border-guards have been rein-
forced in forests along the
frontier. In Berlin, on the other
hand, there’s still free move-
ment throughout the city.
“East Germans wanting to
flee with a minimum risk of
detection go to West Berlin and
there join the hundreds of
thousands of people who cross
the city every day to work,
shop, take in the movies or go
to the opera.
“In the last few weeks the
number of people taking the
Berlin escape-route has risen so
high that refugee barracks in
West Berlin have been filled to
overflowing. As many as 1000
persons have- shown-up in a
single day. Recently, with
25,000 refugees crowding all
available facilities, an emerg-
ency airlift had to be started
to speed evacuation from
Berlin to Western Germany.
“Among those involved in
this mass flight from Com-
munism are people of all ages
and from every walk of life.
Whole families leave their
homes and communities to get
out from under Red pressure.
Recently a prominent band-
leader and his musicians fled
west because they clashed with
Communist restrictions on jazz.
The refugees include lawyers,
acrobats, storekeepers, writers,
policemen.
“Industrial workers and
craftsmen, a favored class in
Communist countries,' make up
the largest single group of
refugees. A total of 18,888
workers and artisans fled west
in the first half of this year,
following tens of thousands
who left Red factories earlier.”
The Jet Age
The coming of jets to the
North Atlantic run has also
presented the major airlines —
already concerned with a
falling-off in the annual increase
of passengers with another
problem, which, in a letter to
London “Daily Telegraph,”
George Fyfe describes as “the
biggest headache commercial
aviation has ever had”:
“Consider what is at stake.
American airline - operators
alone are spending the colossal
sum of £7OO million —at the
lowest estimate —on re-equip-
ment. Other countries are
heavily involved. Our own,
according to the Minister of
Transport and Civil Aviation,
has new aircraft commitments
for 8.0.A.C. and B.E.A.
totalling £l5O million.
“These are staggering figures.
Where is the money coming
from? And what is going to
happen to the big fleets of
London “Daily Express”
“IF COMRADE SCHOLAR TELLS ME ONCE MORE HOW TO DO MY JOB, COMRADE
SCHOLAR WILL BE GOING BACK TO SCHOOL WITH A SCHOLARLY THICK EAR.”
extremely valuable aircraft that
will be supplanted? At least
187 Boeing 7075, and 138
Douglas DC-Bs, have been sold.
“The problem of finding the
money to pay for them was
not regarded as insuperable
when the orders were placed,
but since then the position has
materially changed. Air-traffic
that had been increasing con-
sistently year after year at the
rate of 15 per cent, has dropped
for the first time. And existing
aircraft, which in normal con-
ditions would been sold to
help in paying for the new
ones, are more-or-less unsale-
able. At a stroke they are
supposed to have become
obsolete.
“Most of them have been
maintained in first-class condi-
tion, daily demonstrating the
highest possible efficiency. They
number several hundreds, bear
familiar names, and cannot be
faulted. But they will no longer
be wanted, except in strictly
limited circumstances.
“The situation generally is
serious enough to have led to
the fear that in the next two
or three years the industry is
going to be faced by a crisis
of alarming proportions, affect-
ing not only the operators but
the manufacturers.
“There can be little doubt
now that so vast a re-equipment
programme should have been
carried out more gradually.
Whatever long-term advantages
may accrue from operating
new aircraft that fly like bullets,
the cost is pretty high if it
threatens so much financial
havoc.
“The development of mass
air-travel is the great hope of
commercial aviation, and this
can result only from cheaper
fares, made possible by com-
modious aircraft carrying few
empty seats. The big jets are
apparently showing the way,
but it certainly looks as if they
are moving in before the air-
lines or the public are quite
ready for them.”
Touching on the same
problems, London “Financial
Times” comments that “it is
now clear that the world air-
transport industry, which has
grown accustomed in recent
years to an annual rate of
traffic-expansion of about 14
to 15 per cent., has come to
the end of one phase of
development, and that another
is about to begin”:
“This year, the rate of traffic-
growth has fallen off sharply.
While this has been frequently
attributed to the effects of the
‘business recession,’ it can be
more properly attributed to
the fact that air-transpoit has
reached its maximum market
at present fare-levels. The
expense-account traveller who
provided the bulk of world air-
passengers in the immediate
post-war years slowly gave way
to the tourist passenger, paying
for his travel out of his own
pocket, a move which was given
considerable impetus by the
introduction of special tourist-
rates in the early 1950’5.
“This year, the strata of
tourist passengers who could
afford to fly was widened
further by the introduction of
low-fare economy-class services
on the North Atlantic route.
This was a calculated gamble by
the airlines, aimed at determin-
ing how far they could depend
on lower air-fares as a means
of generating new markets for
air-transport. Every indication
is'that the gamble has paid-off,
and that it is now time for the
airlines seriously to consider
extending this type of service—
or similar types of service at
equally low rates —to the
remainder of the world’s air-
routes.
“What would be a difficult
task under normal circum-
stances —even though most air-
lines are now convinced of the
need to reduce fares in order to
ensure the industry’s future


prosperity—is complicated this
year by the introduction of big
fleets of jet-airliners. The
delivery-pattern of these air-
craft is such that many airlines
that have either not ordered
jets ox that will have to wait
for them for some time will
be forced to continue to use
slower and older piston-engined
or turbo-prop, airliners.
“This has touched-off a
demand for the introduction of
differential fares for jets—in
effect, making the passenger
pay more for jet-travel in
order to safeguard the com-
petitive position of older and
slower equipment, much of
which itself still has to be paid
for. Many airlines that find
common ground in recognising
the need for lower air-fares,
find themselves ranged on oppo-
site sides of the table on this
question of differential fares.”
Red Chino and U.N.
British and U.S. press-
comment on Communist
China’s latest knock-back on
United Nations membership:
New York “Herald Tribune”:
“Once again the General
Assembly has voted to post-
pone for another year any
question of seating Red China.
The vote was 44 to 28, with
nine abstentions. It was taken
on the United States resolution
to postpone consideration of
the move. The majority was
four votes less than on a
similar resolution a year ago.
Red China still stands in con-
tempt of the United Nations for
its armed aggression in Korea.
And it stands morally in con-
tempt of the United Nations for
the murder of so many millions
of its own people.”
* * *
“New York Times”: “It
might be said that since the
Chinese Communist and the
Soviet Russian regimes are both
under indictment by the United
The Bulletin, October 15, 1958
Nations and the Soviet regime
is nevertheless a member, there
is no reason for barring the
Chinese Communists, who rule
an even far bigger nation with
the same despotic methods.
There are, however, some basic
legal and practical differences.
It is one thing to expel or
suspend a founding member of
the United Nations for offences
for which the Charter provides
such punishment; this is prac-
tically impossible in the case
of Russia, because the Soviets
can always veto such action in
the Security Council. It is
another thing to admit a new
member who is also still techni-
cally at war with the United
Nations and refuses to purge
itself of that aggression. The
argument that China is also a
founding member and that it is
merely a question of who shall
represent it is specious. The
VICKY, IN LONDON “DAILY MIRROR”
Charter speaks of ‘States,’ not
countries, and ‘States’ means
political organisations or Gov-
&
‘ *
Co , oke ,:
; If all had
* e a a T a
had healed and we had heard
?° more t , of , C f h ! ang f s Ka ‘- shek
than we have lately of Syngman
Rhee ’ the Amencan delegation
would bably have been
, * J next t t
ready this year or next to accept
Peking as the permanent
* in exchange for
an Assemb ly seat for Formosa,
„ the thu J nder over Quera
d Matsu has forc^d th y e
United States back into its
ideol ical hot seat ...
&
,
„ inb ur gh Scotsman :
Britain is once more standing
with the United States against
P uttin S the question of Chinese
re P resentatio « on the
f th U-N General Assembly
D U
meetm g- The ran S e of Bntish-
American agreement on this
poim js narro “ w For the United
States it is a matter of principle
not to recognise the authority
of the Communist Government
of China, but for Britain the
common point with the United
States is simply that we do notj
think it expedient to discuss
Chinese representation at the
present time. The ground for
this attitude is that we feel, as
in past years, that the division
of opinion in the Assembly is so
acute that discussion might do
serious damage.”
. . . .
The same : “The United
Nations is opposed in principle
to international sin, but recog-
nises for the most part that
nothing is to be gained by keep-
ing notorious sinners, of which
it has more than a few, out.
Why China? Though the
majority of member-countries
would not keep China out and
consider this stupid, many of
them are beholden to, or have
expectations from, the one
country which is adamantly
opposed to China’s entry, the
United States. In addition to
the Soviet bloc and, with few
exceptions, the African and
Asian countries, which are in
favor of admitting China, such
countries as Sweden, Finland
and Eire have spoken in favor
of discussing the question. If
it is ridiculous not to admit
China, it is doubly ridiculous
not to discuss the question.”
* ■ * *
Lionel Bloch, in a letter to
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“In 1948 the International
Court of Justice issued an
advisory opinion on member-
ship in the United Nations in
which it declared that, among
other prerequisites, an appli-
cant must be ‘peace-loving.’ As
Communist China has been
branded an aggressor following
her intervention in Korea, and
as she has done nothing to
purge her contempt, legalists
and moralists argue with con-
siderable force that by inviting
the representatives of the
Peking Government to take
their seat at the United Nations
would make nonsense of
the fundamental principles on
which the United Nations is
based.
“It is significant that the
champions of ‘realism’ have
never been able to show what
practical gains might be derived
by the West from Peking’s
admission to the United
Nations. Those who reject the
‘moral’ test for membership
should at least judge the whole
issue by sober pragmatic
standards.
“If some advantage could
be derived from Peking’s admis-
sion, then it will still be neces-
ary to weigh it against the risk
of undermining the Anglo-
American alliance. On the other
hand, if a United Nations seat
will make no difference to what
Mao considers the inevitable
march of history, then why all
this silly fuss about China’s
exclusion from the family of
nations?”
U.N. Police Force
Commenting favorably on
the proposal (in a pamphlet
entitled “A World Security
Authority”) by 10 British
Tory M.P.s for a “world
police-force,” London “News
Chronicle” adds, however, that
fhe proponents don’t “seriously
tackle the first hurdle. A world
police-force belies its name
without Communist participa-
tion. The idea has got to be
sold in a formidably difficult
market.
“This is no reason at all for
shying away from the project.
All difficulties and objections
are dwarfed by the gigantic
advantages of a scheme that
could by-pass the endless and
abortive disarmament con-
ferences ; and on the assump-
tion that Russia basically plans
to avoid nuclear world chaos


tit i/ic
future
r
0.
A fact which I think we should get clear in
our Australian minds is that we are paying for
roads by not having them.
This was brought home to me in London a
few weeks ago, when Sir William Black handed
me a publication entitled “New Roads for Old.”
Published by the Roads Campaign Council in July,
it is based on engineering and research reports on
the highway needs of Great Britain.
It is cited here because it applies in essence to
the road problem in Australia, where transport
charges make up more than one-third of the cost
of nearly everything we buy—and also contribute
heavily to the cost of our export production.
This publication analyses the cost of bad roads
to Britain. It says that the time-cost of delays to
industry is increasing at double the rate of the
growth of traffic on the roads; and with traffic
doubled, as is estimated, in ten years, the time lost
will be costing Britain £2OOO-million a year, or four
times the present figure.
The current estimate of £5OO-million a year—
it makes allowance for non-working time—derives
from calculations at census-points in city and
country. To this must be added some proportion of
the bill for road accidents, the measurable economic
cost of which is upwards of £llO-million a year.
To balance the record it should be said that
much is being done on major road works in Britain.
With massive machinery brought in “to multiply
the muscles of men,” it is planned to have a
great twin-track highway between London and
Birmingham completed within nineteen months
from last March.
Another dual motorway is being built by
similar fast methods between London and Yorkshire.
In the eight years to the end of 1962, Britain
aims to have spent £450-million on improving its
roads. Engineers say that nearly eight times that
amount —a round £3500-million—will be required
to give the United Kingdom a thoroughly modern
and efficient road system.
7
there is more than enough hop©
to build on.”
Discussing the same subject
in a letter to “New' York
Times,” Aaron Danzig agrees
with that paper’s editorial sug-
gestion “that such a force
should be recruited from the
smaller nations”:
“Where shall such a police-
force be stationed? The sug-
gestion has been made that an
enclave be carved out of some
national territory and that this
be donated to the United
Nations as international terri-
tory upon which the force could
be stationed. A portion of the
Sinai peninsula might serve as
ideal territory, since at present
Egypt derives no important
economic advantage therefrom.
“As the force enlarges, other
enclaves could be established
at strategic areas around the
world, such as the Dardanelles,
the Panama Canal, Hong Kong-
and possibly the area of the
Bering Strait.
“What should be the size of
this force? Everyone seems
agreed that the force to begin
with should not be a very large
one, but they are equally agreed
that the effectiveness of a single
United Nations soldier will be
many times the effectiveness of
a soldier of a particular nation-
ality. He will bear with him,
wherever he goes, the backing
of world opinion, and to attack
him will, in a sense, be equi-
valent to opposing the moral
force of the world.
“How shall the funds for
such a force be raised? It
would seem that the necessary
finances for the force could
be obtained in a most painless
way.
“If each of the members of
the United Nations would agree
to displace a minor fraction of
their respective defence budgets
with an allocation of funds for
support of the force, each
nation would be spending for
defence no more than it spent
before. Yet it would be obtain-
ing a weapon for preservation
of the peace far greater than
could have been purchased with
the minor fraction so displaced.
Considering the size of the
force contemplated, this frac-
tion would not be very sub-
stantial.
“Will the force be hogtied
by the veto? It will be if the
force is under the direction of
the Security Council. It would
seem more logical that direction
of the force be under the asgis
of the General Assembly, with
the administrative details being
handled by an arm of the
Secretary-General’s office. Thus
the use of the force could only
be approved if supported by
two-thirds of the 81 members
of the United Nations.”
Various Voices
Lord Boyd On: “Since the
beginning of civilisation, nego-
tiating from strength, which
means dominating your enemy
without needing to go to war,
has always been the last
instrument of diplomacy. Now
you cannot negotiate from
strength, because then you use
your strength. The country
that tries to do it will commit
suicide. War has become im-
possible. Unless human society
decides to commit suicide it
cannot have a war with nuclear
weapons.”
* * *
U.S. Under-Secretary of
State, Christian A. Herter :
“The world’s Communists have
one goal: world domination.
The Chinese Communists have
one goal: to dominate and
control their Far Eastern
neighbors. The Communists’
method: subjugation of free
nations, one by one. Their
strategy: confuse, divide and
ultimately control those nations
that employ the democratic
process of discussion, disagree-
ment and compromise. Their
tactics: whatever is likely to be
the most successful at the
moment.’’
* * *
Marshal of the Royal Air
Force Sir John Slessor: “When
all the resources of diplomacy,
economics and politics have
been exhausted, we must be
prepared to use force to defend
our vital interests rather than
to surrender supinely, rather
than risk a major war. We
ought not to get ourselves let
in for an issue where prestige
only is the thing. We have to
fight like hell on a really
important issue, but I am not
for fighting on an issue which
is not vital.”
* * *
Field-Marshal Sir Gerald
Templer, Chief of Imperial
General Staff: “The British
Army must be more than
ambidextrous. We are maids
of all the work. How to train
units for nuclear warfare and
at the same time find time to
train them adequately for the
thousand-and-one jobs it is our
duty to perform, whether it
may be for security in the
Troodos Mountains, or Hong
Kong, Singapore, or wherever
it may be, is one of our prob-
lems.”


exactly fit the teeth of a Meccano
sprocket-wheel . . .
How I ran together a machine that
looked something like a launching-
station for a rocket-bomb, and mounted
it on my heavy bit of board, I don’t
exactly remember. We inventors take
fire, thinking and thinking far into the
night; and about 11.30, or maybe 3.30
next morning, it gets under way. The
pleasure of intense concentration, of
going to bed with a problem and
waking-up with it half-solved, is much
more dangerous than the pleasure of
love: part of the reason I kicked over
my grandfather-clock was the feeling
that, if I were to concentrate on pro-
viding it with a quarter-hour strike and
a set of chimes, 1 might not have time
to go in to The Bulletin on Thursdays
to collect my pay.
Anyway, there was my—you will have
guessed, I suppose, that I had invented
the cinematograph—projection-unit, with
a 150-watt lamp shining through it and
the film clattering in front of the beam
of light and behind a watchmaker’s eye-
piece without pause.
But “without pause”—there was the
rub ; the result was just a blur on the
wall.
Thinking it over, I discovered a new
natural principle: film, as it has evolved
through the ages under the law of the
survival of the fittest, will move only
if it is stopped 24 times every second.
Each picture must slide down while a
shutter obscures the light, and stop still
as the shutter lets the light through it—
and 24 times a second! Think of that!
T was still thinking of it, and trying-out
many and many stop-and-go devices,
using rubberised friction and gap-toothed
wheels that all slipped, when my son
came home from his library, opened a
book, and said, “That’s what you’re
looking for.”
It was a device like a Maltese cross;
a slotted plate which engaged a pin that
turned the sprocket that pulled down the
film, and after that the pin was dis-
engaged and a curve of the plate held
the pin-wheel motionless so that the
sprocket couldn’t slip ... I turned the
book over; it was a Children s Book
of Modern Wonders, or words to that
effect.
I’d like to know the name of the
inventor of that beautiful bit of ingenuity
—far more beautiful than Marilyn
Monroe, since without it there wouldn’t
be any films shown ; I have incorporated
it in my machine, and would like to give
full credit to the inventor in any republi-
cation of this account of my invention
of the cinematograph. Much, of course,
remained to be done. It was left to me
to discover how this principle, valueless
in itself, could be adapted to the slots
of a Meccano plate-wheel, provided the
wheel was cut in a series of four con-
cave curves, a job ably managed by Mr.
Phillip Dorter on The Bulletin’s
emery-wheel, under my direction.
It remained only to complete the
gearing and to apply my talents as a
scrounger to get from the obliging
manager of a newsreel company a
reasonable length of film ; then, when
I turned the handle, there magically
appeared upon the wall an aeroplane
coming in to land. But very dimly—
I studied similar inventions in Sydney
shops ; they all seemed to use no stronger
light than a 150-watt globe. Then some
visiting electricians supplied the answer:
what was needed was a magnifying-glass ;
not like the watchmaker’s glass in front
of my machine, but a magnifying-glass
that would concentrate the light on the
film, from behind.
Full of this new theory, I visited one
of the biggest camera-shops in Sydney.
Yes, they said, they thought I was right
—but suppose they were to give me
such a glass, had I considered that with-
out an unprocurable glass screen it
would almost certainly set the film on
fire?
CJOmehow, this killed my enthusiasm.
A little later I dismantled my
cinematograph, and made for my
Meccano, which had been up to then
lying about in stray boxes and drawers,
a box of Pacific-maple with three trays
and separate compartments for every-
thing.
An American efficiency-expert has a
theory that when a business builds itself
a set of perfect offices, everything planned
and everyone comfortable, it is beginning
to decay; and maybe this applies to
making a proper box for your Meccano ;
certainly I haven’t invented anything
since I made mine.
But I don’t entirely despair. For some
time I’ve been thinking of inventing a
machine that automatically presses
pieces of paper against raised bits of lead
after it has spread ink over the lead with
rollers, so that the pieces of paper are
set aside with the impression of the bits
of lead clearly and cleanly visible. There
is a machine that does this sort of thing
in the front of The Bulletin premises,
but it’s a bit cumbersome for a small
fiat; besides, at around £IOO,OOO it’s
at present out of the question.
The main problem would be whether
Meccano parts would take the pressure.
But suppose they did, I might be able
to. disperse throughout Australia reams
and reams of pieces of paper with pictures
of girls without any clothes, for which
I am told people will pay a great deal
of money. I might become filthy stink-
ing rich ; a great Australian publisher ;
I might not have to come in to The
Bulletin to work . . .
The more I think of it, the more, in
the words of a statesman whose picture-
painting parallels my achievements in
mechanics, I harden towards this project.
The Hollidays
B y Middy
“I feel awful about this, dear, but he says no multiple hiring."


was the Rev. Smithies, not
long arrived from mission work
in India. The Governor was
John Hutt, of philanthropic
instincts, recently Governor of
Arcott, a province of India. To
these two gentlemen this
friendship between John and
Mary seemed the opportunity
for trying-out the great expert-
ment-was it possible to take
the primitive aboriginal and
lead him upwards to an indus-
trious, civilised life? Let the
pair be married, by the cere-
mony of the Wesley Church.
Give them a house to live in,
with all the necessary furnish-
jngs of a white couple.
By this time Grey had de-
■V parted. During his con-
siderable stay in Perth he had
made good use of Warrup in
assisting in the compilation of
a glossary of the aboriginal
language which attracted the
acclaim of the Royal Society.
With the Governor and the
Rev. Smithies planning a
future for Warrup, he became
apprentice to the gardener at
Government House, the Gover-
nor wishing that he should
receive an education in the art
of agriculture,
Meanwhile preparations for
the marriage went on. A fer-
tile acre; part of the Govern-
ment domain was assigne d to
w 0n it members of the
, T 7 , , , ,
Wesley Church erected a com-
fo[table two-room cottage;
° tber workers, assisting
Warrup turned the acre into a
vegetable-garden,
At the church John and
Mary were given communion
and inducted into Christian
membership, the nature of the
induction being carefully
explained to them. Finally,
on November 19, 1841, they
were married, the Rev. Smithies
claiming, as he performed the
ceremony, that this was the first
marriage by Christian rites of
an aboriginal couple in Aus-
tralia.
Cjo Mary and John went to
live in their home—and
John’s relatives descended on
him like a plague of locusts!
Just as soon as the vegetables,
particularly potatoes, arrived
at any degree of ripeness they
were taken and eaten.
Being of a generous disposi-
tion, Warrup endured this
cheerfully, but whether he
would have been able to perse-
vere under this strain and how
much of a success the great
experiment would have proved
were not, unfortunately, given
time to be demonstrated.
One of the chief disabilities
of the aboriginal in making
contact with the white invader
was not that his flesh was
readily penetrable by the bullet
but that his blood lacked what
medical science calls anti-
bodies. In his primitive state
the least disease-ridden of man-
kind, the aboriginal had no
hereditary resistance against
such simple (to the white man)
complaints as the common
cold and measles.
Thus, within a month of his
marriage, John Warrup fell ill ;
first with a cold, for which he
was treated by the regimental
surgeon. As this cold developed
into influenza Warrup was
ordered to bed ; prescribed the
medicines of the time. How-
ever, he became worse, so that
the surgeon feared pneumonia,
To his brothers, sitting naked
in their camp in what is now
East Perth, this illness of
Warrup’s was plain ; it had
come on him because he had
left the ways of his fathers,
had taken to white men’s
clothes, lived in a house like a
white man, slept in a white
man’s bed.
Clearly there was but one
way to save him. So, on the
night of January 3, 1842, they
arrived, lifted Warrup from his
bed and carried him to the
camp, there to rest on the earth
that had been a mother to a
thousand generations of their
forebears,
When daylight came, Mary,
mustering courage, hurried to
rouse the Protector of Abo-
rigines, Francis Armstrong ;
and he in turn hurried to rouse
the surgeon. And they both
hurried to the native camp,
John Warrup was just dying,
from what the surgeon diag-
nosed as galloping pneumonia.
on the highest land and
designed to look over all other
buildings. A variety of views in
all directions can be had by
varying the outdoor terraces on
alternate floors. Direct western
exposure will be avoided by the
diagonal placing of the blocks,
and, as in the maisonettes,
car-parking floors will be at
the base of each building.
As set out in the booklet in
a comprehensive map, the
scheme, besides providing for
dwellings, includes details of
a sports-oval, secondary-school,
church (by the look of it, a
singularly un- churchlike
church, with sail-shaped
clusters on the roof), com-
munity-hall, nursery, music-
shell, yacht-club, shopping-
centre, theatre, restaurant,
court-house, tourist-hotel and
port. The tourist-hotel sounds
appealing: “Planned for the
southern promontory of the
site, one of the finest positions
on the foreshores of Sydney
Harbor, the 30-story building
will command superb views of
Sydney and should prove an
attraction for overseas visitors.
The building incorporates a
restaurant, swimming - pool,
tennis-courts and a boat-jetty.”
In the picture, it’s the black-
shaded giant right at the edge
of the water.
Just how will the redevelop-
ment scheme, if adopted, be
carried out? Who’ll do the
paying?
The architects list three
stages:
(1) The land at McMahon’s Point
is ready for immediate develop-
ment. Most of it is vacant and the
buildings left on the site are vacant,
derelict timber structures,
(2) The central area has been
zoned for industrial purposes and
shows all the symptoms of blight,
depressed housing, lack of com-
munity facilities and playgrounds,
traffic-hazards and decay. Con-
current with the building of
dwellings in this stage would be
the building of the shopping-centre,
sports-oval and school facilities.
(3) Northern portion and the east
side of the site show the least signs
of decay and they would be re-
developed last. Areas of natural
beauty have been preserved, ami
the entire area has been designed as
ah architectural entity. The success
of this scheme will depend upon
the speed and consistency of the
development.
As for the money side of
it, the architects contend that
funds spent by the Housing
Commission and various
building-societies on “the sort
of development we have con-
demned —sprawling suburbia,
patches of housing and giant
individual blocks on small
allotments in the inner areas,”
should be diverted to the
organised redevelopment of
blighted areas surrounding the
city. The sponsors seek the
support of commercial and
retail businessmen in the cen-
tral areas ; they also urge the
need for “you, the citizen, to
take an active interest in any
plan, thought or action aimed
at determining future growth.”
As a project in town-
planning the proposal is com-
mendable ; it would work
wonders to a somewhat dreary
area. And it only needs one
glance at the superimposed
forest of shiny structures to
suggest that it would be very
nice for the architects, too.


i mm
S 3
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O Connell Sts., H. V. La wry,
Sydney. Manager.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Section 92
Much has been written about
Section 92 of the Australian
Constitution, the clause in
which our forefathers
endeavored to ensure that, with
Federation, trade and inter-
course among the States would
be absolutely free.
While attention has been
focused mainly on the trade
aspect, there is another very
real problem confronting
people who wish to move freely
from one State to another with
their families —each State has
its own individual system of
education. With young children
the variation is not important,
but a child of, say, 14 moving
to Melbourne from Brisbane
finds that fellow-pupils there
have been studying languages
for two years while he or she
was just about to begin them
in Queensland. This, though
hard, is not an insuperable
problem, but should the
Queenslander be in his or her
matriculation year the diversity
has become so great that either
the child has to be left in
Queensland to board or has to
take an additional year to
matriculate in, say, N. S. Wales
or Victoria.
With the increasing move-
ment by public servants and
employees of big firms from
one State to another this is a
subject which should be given
priority at the next meeting
of State Directors of Educa-
tion. Arthur A. Words-
worth (Vic.).
Oil-search at Innamincka
The Santos-U.S. interests
have chosen the Innamincka
area in n.-e. South Australia
for their first deep-bore drilling.
The S.A. Premier visited the
“Bodgier!"
site, was shown the surface
indications and came back full
of optimism —and said so
publicly.
Having slept on it, Sir
Thomas hastened to say next
day that he had nary a penny
in any oil show and did not
advise investors to buy Santos
scrip. Since when Santos
shares have, of course, been on
the up-and-up.
I cut my second geological
teeth in this area of the Great
Australian Artesian Basin. If
another deep-bore is required
in Australia to prove L.
Owen’s theories on oil migra-
tion this will be the one. The
geological features of the Inna-
mincka terrain are identical
with those of the Longreach
and Cordilla areas, reviewed
earlier by The Bulletin’s
very able oil-geologist. The
chance of a successful drilling
there can be assessed by his
statement: “Almost all the
pre-Triassic, and much of the
Jurassic, petroleum, which
may have been formed and
preserved, was dissipated and
lost by late-Triassic or early-
Cretaceous times.”
The western boundary area
of the Great Australian
Artesian Basin is less likely to
be holding petroleum than any
other geological formation, not-
withstanding the very deceptive
surface indications. The de-
pression was probably car-
boniferous in the Permian
period. The lower Cretaceous
era saw it as a great bed of
Permo - Carbonaceous and
Triassic sedimentation. In the
same period it was submerged
by the sea from the Gulf of
Carpentaria to the gulf basins
in South Australia.
The orogenic upheaval first
gave the zone its main charac-
teristics. The subsequent tec-
tonic adjustments would cause
the folding and faulting which
apparently impressed Sir
Thomas Playford. The same
movements undoubtedly would
aid the escape and migration
of any previously formed and
trapped oil.
The Leigh Creek field to the
s.-w. is a vast deposit of
Carbonaceous sediment from
this basin forced into a
restricted pocket when the
Flinders Range was tossed up.
It was reduced by heat to a
sub-bituminous coal in the
process.
The deepest bore near Inna-
mincka to the present is some
40 miles north at Patchawarra.
It was put down in 1914 and
bottomed at 5458 ft. A trace of
lignite appeared in grey shale
at 2910 ft., but from that point
to the bottom it was sandy
shale. The drill stopped in blue
shale at the maximum depth.
Another of L. Owen’s wise
basic principles should certainly
be adopted: “The search for the
surviving oil demands a special
technique and a determination
of the migratory routes
followed by the oil.”
I am not an oil-geologist, but
I could not agree more heartily.
—Old Opencut (S.A.).
Butter Subsidy
“J.J.A.” is wide of the mark
when he says that “a cow that
only gives 2501 b. of butterfat
is useless” (B. 17/9/’5B). If the
dairy cows in Queensland were
culled on that basis most of
them would be wending their
way to the meatworks. The
average for all cows tested in
this State is somewhere around
170-1801 b. butterfat a year.
Despite this, there are many
very successful dairymen in
Queensland.
The same goes for the
remark, “one-cow-to-the-acre-
land should be turned over to
sheep.” There isn’t much
country up this way that would
run a beast to the acre all the
year round. A lot that
’ wouldn’t run a beast to the acre
would still be too dear for
sheep.
There has been too much
talk about pounds of butter-
fat a year. Every farm has
its own economic level of pro-
duction, depending on the cost
of the land and the cost of
earning a quid on it. The best
target for any farm is the
highest at the lowest available
cost. For example, many of
the herds in Queensland would
probably top 4001 b. butterfat a
year if the cows were stuffed
with expensive concentrates.
But would the gain exceed the
extra cost of getting it? Unless
it did, the farmer would be on
the rocks in next to no time.
In other words, the most profit-
able level of production may
not always be the highest.
Each farm has to work out its
own level.
It may surprise “J.J.A.” to
know that some of the farms
in this State that make the
most profit are those with
herd-averages around 1601 b.
butterfat. Most such herds
are fed on pastures of Rhodes-
grass or paspalum. There are
few overhead costs associated
with growing feed, and


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.*
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to "The Bulletin," to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6<l. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to "The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
machinery- and fuel-bills are
practically nil. Moreover, the
farmer has more time to devote
to herd-improvement and sub-
division because he is not tied
to the tractor.
Except in a few favored
areas for small crops, I still
believe that the average dairy-
farm is best suited for dairying,
because it returns the highest
profit per acre when compared
with other farm pursuits such
as crops, lambs (except in a
few special areas) and fat-
stock. And the reason is that
lack of size restricts most of
the other pursuits.—Cocky
(Q).
A Very Dirty Word
In speaking to his nation,
which he felt was rather
apathetic about issues involv-
ing their own armed forces,
President Eisenhower tried to
invoke a powerful word-image :
“Quemoy will not be another
Munich. There will be no
appeasement,” he is reported to
have declared.
Of all his speech, this phrase
was seized upon by the press
as being the most newsworthy.
There are few words in the
English language which are
supposed to fill the modern
breast with such a picture of in-
famy and perfidy as “Munich.”
Only desperation could excuse
a general-turned-politician for
using such a description, for he
of all people must be aware of
the facts of Munich.
In going to Munich, Neville
Chamberlain had this in the
background: Ramsay Mac-
Donald had stripped Britain’s
defences, and Stanley Baldwin
had let them stay that way ;
France as a nation had no
stomach for a fight, and all
the smaller nations were cling-
ing to some unreal ideology of
neutrality; and the Middle-
West idea of isolation was the
strongest force in the U.S.A.
On Chamberlain’s side, he
gained the strong moral right
to fight, as he had proved the
depths of Hitler’s transgres-
sions ; and he got 12 months to
rally what support he could
from the still-free nations, and
•build up what armed forces he
could in the time.
One might have thought that
dancing on Chamberlain’s
grave would have ceased in a
world that saw these events:
The cynical signing of the
1939 Russian-German Pact and
subsequent partition of Poland
between the two.
The laying-down of Belgian
arms at the behest of Leopold,
without prior warning to Eng-
land.
Quisling’s betrayal of Nor-
way.
Japan revoking the pact
honorably entered into by its
own special envoy to Washing-
ton, and bombing Pearl Harbor
without declaration of war.
A lot of thoughtless people
“Middle Exist? Ee's nor-west!"
take heart in the fact that
Churchill denounced the
Munich pact, but they will tell
you just as glibly that Churchill
won the war. When Churchill
came to power there was no
peace left to preserve. Britain
knew its fate, and Britain
fought on.
There would never have been
a Munich if the whole world
had not been guilty of sloppy
thinking. And Russia’s expan-
sion would not be so easy as it
is today if the same sloppy
thinking were not abroad in
the world now. — Suburbia
(N.S.W.).
Fishing-boat Harbors
The announcement that Vic-
toria’s Minister for Public
Works is agreeable to discuss
the appointment of a royal
commission to investigate alle-
gations that money has been
wasted on the boat-harbor at
Apollo Bay (Vic.) is timely. If
a commission is appointed it
might also look into what has
been going on at Queenscliffe
(Vic.).
According to a member of
the Apollo Bay Chamber of
Commerce (Cr. A. J. Cockerell)
the position at the bay has
gone from bad to worse, and
this after expenditure of
£300,000 on the harbor, which
is used by only 16 fishing-boats.
This works out at £18,750 per
boat, and I’ve little doubt that
the fishermen concerned would
have gladly settled for £15,000
each and given the game away.
The North Coast of N. S.
Wales provides several interest-
ing examples of what can
happen when “experts” start
playing around with tides,
sand, wind and water.
At Queenscliffe (Vic.) the
fishing is by no means what it
used to be, and the fishing
population is on the decline.
It is anyone’s guess what has
been spent, and, if the opinion
of the old hands is worth
listening to, most of it has
been wasted. There have cer-
tainly been some surprising
and unexpected results. The
whole foreshore in the vicinity
of the “works” has been altered
by sand-drift, the old fisher-
men’s pier is unusable and the
depth of water at the other pier
is steadily decreasing. It’s high
time this matter was also
thoroughly investigated.
Ceg (Vic.).
Visitors to Indonesia
I was a little sad to find The
Bulletin succumbing (Plain
English 17/9/’5B) to the tales
of visitors to Indonesia being
held-up with bayonets and
tommy-guns, and subjected to
indignities “in Djakarta or any
other Indonesian city.”
Those tales seldom stand
up to critical inquiry,
although it is doubtless
true that some visitors have
had a rough time—just as some
visitors to Melbourne and
Sydney have suffered at the
hands of roughs in Port Mel-
bourne and Woolloomooloo.
In the last six years I have
been twice in Indonesia, visiting
many other cities as well as
Djakarta. In wandering around
alone I have never once experi-
enced either discourtesy or
discomfort. In fact, the Indo-
nesians go out of their way to
be polite and friendly.
If my word on this is un-
acceptable, let me quote the
views of my friend Jim Mc-
Intyre, our present Ambassador
to Indonesia, who has been


revisiting his home State of
Tasmania.
In the Launceston
“Examiner” Mclntyre is
reported as saying that Indo-
nesians had kindly feelings
towards Australians. He urged,
very rightly, that Australians
should be encouraged to read
more about Indonesia, and he
added that Australians could
understand Indonesia better if
they learnt more about the
complex pattern of life there.
He also stressed the expanding
trade opportunities for Aus-
tralia in Indonesia.
These things need saying. We
have to live next-door to Indo-
nesia for ever, and the better
we know each other as neigh-
bors, and the better we try to
get along together, the better
for both of us. — Charles
Meeking (N.S.W.).
Beer
Some rhymed and musical
attention has been given
recently to that desert the “pub
with no beer.” The popularity
of . this piece is doubtless
attributable to the avid appetite
for beer of the average Aus-
tralian, a popularity also
demonstrated in State loyalties
whenever there is any debate
on brews and flavors. Perhaps
it is time there was an informed
inquiry into the qualities of
Australian beers, dealing with
the nourishment or otherwise of
their contents, the methods by
which they are brewed, and the
dark rumors current from time
to time about “chemicals.”
The breweries, notoriously
reluctant to talk publicly about
anything, even the savage
excise-tax, would probably not
co-operate. Yet a good lead to
enthusiasts on beer has been
given by West Germany, where
the Federal Court has now put
an end to an argument which
raged over many years —
whether beverages similar to
beer but containing either sugar
or other - sweetening agents
should be allowed to be sold
under the name of “beer.”
The verdict has been for-
warded to all chief public
prosecutors in Germany. It
announces that a fermented
beverage containing either
sugar or a coloring matter pro-
duced from sugar, or a sweet-
ening agent, may not be traded
in Bavaria under the name of
beer, even if it is produced out-
side that territory and recog-
nised in those unenlightened
areas as beer. The court agreed
with those Bavarian beer-
drinkers who claimed absolute
purity for their national drink.
In Bavaria, it said,
the concept of beer is
inseparably linked with the
strict prescription for purity
which permits only the use of
malt, hops, yeast and water.
It added that beer prepared
from only these ingredients
“corresponds with the expecta-
tions of Bavarian consumers.”
Are there any similar purists in
any Australian State? Is it
time for the formation in this
country of a Beer Drinkers’
League, with a nominal sub-
scription (say, the price of a
pint a year), to advance the
quality of our beers, to watch
that they are properly served, to
keep prices down, and to be,
in general, a specialised organi-
sation representing the con-
sumers? Hop Taster
(N.S.W.).
. .
Changing Asia
While grasping nettles (B.
3/9/’5B) we might do well to
tackle the uncomfortable proba-
bility that sheer force of cir-
cumstance will drive the less-
developed countries of South-
east Asia to social systems
closely resembling Communism,
There is one task to which
the leaders of almost every
Asian country will apply them-
selves: that of raising the
living-standards of their people
to something approximating
those enjoyed in Western
Europe and U.S.A. To do
that, they will attempt to travel
in a few years a road which
it took the West a century-and-
a-half to cover. Any Govern-
ment which does not show
progress comparable with that
in China will fall.
What must be done, broadly,
is to take half the national
working-force from their
family farms and set them to
making roads, dams, farm-
implements, houses and house-
hold gadgets—and to increase
the total food-production while
doing so. That will involve the
determined application of
carefully worked-out, long-term
plans. In Indonesia, particu-
larly, masses of people will have
to be transferred, not only to
unfamiliar work but to strange
surroundings. Homesickness is
an imponderable but often
powerful factor in limiting
migration, and strong incentives
may be needed to induce, for
example, the required number
of Javanese to go to Sumatra
and stay there.
Success in carrying out any
ambitious, long-term plans will
depend ultimately upon con-
tinuity of policy and on sound,
firm and stable government.
It is doubtful whether such
government can be secured
anywhere East of India by
what we regard as democratic
means.
Another point: development
projects will need capital and
know-how not available locally.
Will Asians be content to see
their railroads and heavy
industries owned and managed
by American capitalists, with
the profits going overseas year
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 508
Across
I—Boy1—Boy was in front when served with a spoon. (6)
4 —Dead bodies concerned in police matters respecting hit-
and-run driving, speeding, and such-like. (8)
10 — Flora turned an Australian explorer to one horseshoe
manuscript. (11)
11 — Kiss after business? He calls the rate at which to have
a row. (3)
12— Useful ring to burn out. (2, 3)
13— Inquiry as to whether a woman has visited a speak-
easy. (7)
14—Whirls Nelson and Mary
Baker. (6)
16 —They are inclinations to bound
into the steamer. (6)
19 — The German word for the French
boy, probably an Irishman. (6)
20 — Trademark to duck a film-
star. (6)
23 — Can a Roy Rene horseshoe bird
like a bustard in South
America? (7)
24 — Oil for your bus? It has Noel
singing. (5)
25 — A good round strike is back-
ward. (3)
26 — Name of a male place for
spotting, though to behold a
catcall. (11)
27 — Perform some scattering I pressed
if scattered. (8)
28 — Excite the love of the last
listener. (6)
Down
1 — Where no head shakes Cain’s
destination. (4, 2,3)
2 Election-losers can go to a special
court about these throws that
provoke a wicketkeeper to
anger? (8, 7)
3 Bird about to shut-up. (5)
5 Are you allowed charm? (6)
6 The people in a play to measure
an important personage at the
castle. (9)
7 No artist can begin with this
brief entertainment with a boxer’s
offsider in favor of weight. (6, 9)
8 — German with sex-appeal—kiss
on! (5)
9 Secretes what Peter May’s team
holds after canonisation. (7)
15 —Noble ward is so altered as to
be susceptible to death by immer-
sion. (9)
17 — South Australian fortissimo not
so elevated as this plant cultivated
in India for its red dye. (9)
18 — Medical man ought to give this
stock-killer. (7)
21 — Market in the steamer has a
stinging sensation. (6)
22 — I had to follow a cause for
November excitement in Mel-
bourne whose arrows produce
extreme tenderness? (5)
24 —Colitis affects this punctua-
tion. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 507


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
the land, hoping that the earth
would heal him.”
“But they can’t live off
that!” protested King angrily.
“They plant two crops a
year, each seed by hand. One
of rice and one of wheat. And
vegetables in between the
rows.”
“It’s still impossible. They
can’t make enough to keep
alive.”
“They can; and do. Just
alive. We Japanese have
always been very poor. We
did not expect much. Perhaps
that was why when they
offered us the world . .
His voice trailed away.
King stared out into the
curtain of rain. The man
below was shuffling between
the rows of wheat, bending
down and mulching the rich
black earth with his bare
hands.
“Shall we go down?” The
professor stood waiting, his
face impassive.
King nodded curtly. He
wasn’t going to allow senti-
ment to rob him of the
moment for which he had
waited twelve years. He
slipped his hand into his
pocket, fingering the cold steel.
In a few minutes they had
reached the plot of wheat.
“Nobu! ” The professor
spoke quietly, but with that
intonation to which the sol-
diers had been trained to
respond.
The man lifted his head, but
remained squatting, like some
derelict toad.
IVTow. King lashed himself
bitterly. Why don’t you
do something? Shoot him
down without mercy. He
deserves it, doesn’t he?
Remember the Burma Road ;
Ken, all the others. He made
a supreme effort to summon-up
his hate, to free it, to set it on
to its victim, to let it ravage
and destroy until it had spent
itself.
But there was nothing.
“You wish to speak to
him?”
The professor’s dry, thin
voice cut across the tumult of
his emotions.
King’s body suddenly felt
light and empty, a relief so
immense that he closed his
eyes, checking a sensation of
faintness. The familiar smell
of growing wheat reached him,
and he drew a deep breath,
taking in the peace and heal-
ing of the earth.
“No,” he said slowly, turn-
ing away.
They walked back to the
house, together.
by year? And will American
investors risk their capital in
countries which might go Com-
munist overnight? Not likely.
Major undertakings probably
will be financed by loans fron)
one Government to another,
with fixed interest-rates and
provision for redemption of
principal; and technologists
and advisors will be salaried
public servants. Subsidiary pro-
jects must be co-ordinated to
the master-plan, and capital
and labor directed accordingly.
All that is beyond the scope
of private enterprise, and must
be controlled by Governments
—strong Governments, not
afraid of noisy “popular
leaders.”
States operating on those
lines will have travelled a long
way towards Socialism
towards Communism, if sta-
bility of government has to be
maintained by “undemocratic”
measures.
The main concern of the
Western democracies is not
what types of government and
economy develop in Asian com-
munities, but whether or not
those countries fall into the
Russo-Chinese orbit. If we
are to prevent that, we —especi-
ally the Americans—may have
to change.some of our ideas.
We shall be playing into Com-
munist hands if we turn our
backs on neutral Asian
countries, or are half-hearted
in our support, merely because
we don’t like the political or
economic systems they adopt.
—Jas. Macansh (Q).
Metric Changeover
“Wusslean” (B. 24/9/’5B)
may be missing the point in
regard to changeover to the
metric system, at least as far
as the engineering industry is
concerned. Engineers have long
espoused the metric system
in the very best manner—they
use it wherever it is convenient
and saves labor ; otherwise they
leave it alone. It is immaterial
to any engineer whether a
drawing calls for 3|in. or for
3.125 in., both being the same
thing, and tolerances are in
either case quoted in the metric
system in “thousandths of an
inch.”
If it appears at any time that
further adoptions of the metric
“I thought you gnu."
system will save time and
trouble, the engineering
industry will quietly do the
adopting.
Converting our money system
to the metric system is quite a
different matter. Engineers
customarily do a great deal of
their cost-estimating in the
metric system, mentally chang-
ing £5 13s. into £5.65 and work-
ing on a slide-rule to multiply
and divide. It would be fairly
safe to say that most long-
term interest tables and plans,
such as life-assurance premiums
or War Service Homes monthly
repayment-rates on houses,
were worked out in the decimal
system, or metric system if one
likes to call it by that name.
The point to be stressed is that
these relatively highly trained
people are always working quite
happily in both systems, and
as they fully appreciate both,
they have little desire to be
forced into anything in the
nature of a wholesale conver-
sion.
As a rule the highly trained
person will have little difficulty
in mentally adjusting to any
changeover; how the “man
in the street” would adapt
himself to a complete alteration
of our money into a decimal
coinage, and whether such a
changeover would be worth
while, is hard to estimate. —
H.B. B. (Vic.).
Local-govt. Dictatorship
A number of local-governing
areas in N.S.W. are perturbed
over the Department of Local
Government’s proposal to
amalgamate them with adjoin-
ing shires or municipalities. In
at least one area, the Blue
Mountains City Council, there
is strong feeling against the
decision of the department to
convert the present five-ward
municipality into a three-ward
one.
The growth of population on
the lower mountains has made
a redistribution of ward
boundaries necessary, and the
council was asked for its views
on the question. Aldermen, by
a majority of one, favored six
wards against seven ; but when
the six-ward recommendation
was put to the department it
coolly told the council a three-
ward division would be better
than either of the other pro-
posals.
Under the present five-ward
division aldermen of both the
upper and lower mountains can
team-up if need be to ensure
their areas receive a fair share
of expenditure ; but if the three-
ward proposal is adopted, towns
like Blackheath and Mt. Vic-
toria will come into one of the
Katoomba wards, which, at the
1959 elections, are likely to elect
a majority of Katoomba aider-
men, who will dominate the
situation.
Ratepayers on the lower
mountains, who contribute 37
per cent, of the rates, are also
uneasy at the three-ward
proposal, which was not even
seriously considered by the
council in its original recom-
mendation to the department.
They argue that under three
wards they will have only 33
per cent, representation in
council, and that for an official
in Sydney to override the wishes
of aldermen as a whole is
taking the “local out of local-
government.” I would label it
as plain dictatorship.—M. F.
Dixon (N.S.W.).


Provided it has good
pasture to run on, a
lamb can be weaned
at three months of
age either from its
mother or from the
bottle. However, if
the pasture is in-
different the lamb
should be fed crushed
oats and lucerne hay
from a trough or box.
It is advisable to mark
and tail at an earlier
age than this —shortly
after birth, in fact —-
and to use Elastrator
Rubber Rings which
achieve the same re-
sult as the knife but
by atrophy rather
than by the dangerous
method of cutting.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
BUGS IN THE COWSHED
By W. G. WHITTLESTONE
Do you have bugs in your
cowshed? Many farmers
will, I’m sure, take the view of
an old farmer about whom
the following tale is told.
It was a meeting “out in the
sticks,” and the speaker was a
well-known authority on clean-
milk production. For an hour
he talked about germs, bac-
teria or whatever you like to
call them. These tiny creatures
which breed so quickly, he
explained, are the farmer’s
enemy. They get into the milk
and they spoil its keeping-
quality and so on.
At question-time an old
grizzled farmer got up and
said: “With all due respect to
the learned speaker, I think he
is not a practical man. He is
just talking a lot of theory
which doesn’t cut no ice with
a practical man like me. I’ve
been farming these thirty-five
years and what I don’t know
about farming is not worth
knowing. I’ve been in the cow-
shed a darned sight oftener than
the speaker, and I haven’t seen
one of these here germs we’ve
been told about. And what I
can’t see well, it just isn't
there. It’s all a lot of theory—•
I don’t care what you say! ”
Finally Dr. R. had the chance
to answer the questioner along
"Taxil"
with a number of others. His
reply was somewhat as
follows: “In reply to the first
questioner, who doesn’t believe
that something can exist which
cannot be seen by the unaided
eye —I wonder if he believes in
the existence of his backside?”
The point was well taken by
the audience, and the story has
been handed from father to
son in the district. It contains
a very real element of truth.
However, there are lots of
farmers who don’t realise what
bugs can do to their milk. I
was on the stage one morning
at a cheese factory where we
were collecting samples from
milk as it came in. The first
assistant was tipping the cans
into the weighing-machine
when he suddenly called out
“What the hell is this?” and
lifted out a large rat by the
tail. It had been caught in the
strainer. The supplier con-
cerned was surprised when he
saw it, but for quite the wrong
reason, because he replied with
“That’s funny. I
picked one out meself this
morning!”
Now the moral of these tales
is really that it isn’t good
enough to pick the dead rats
out of the milk or to collect
dirt in a strainer or filter. It’s
the bugs which get through the
strainers and filters that
really matter.
What are these bugs? They
are really one of the simplest
forms of life. They are made
up of single cells, and most of
them can’t move about by
themselves —they just float in
the wind or in liquids. A grain
of sugar occupies the space
taken up by 400,000,000
typical bacteria. In suitable
circumstances they will grow.
This they do by splitting into
two identical cells which then
grow and split again. This may
happen every half-hour, so you
can imagine how many cells
there are at the end of a day
if there is even only one in a
drop of milk at the start. Each
half-hour they grow to 2,4, 8,
16, 32, 64, 128 and so on.
Where do they come from?
Years ago we did a study of
the distribution of the bugs
which can give a cow mastitis.
Apart from the cow’s teats, the
worst-infected objects in the
cowshed were the milker’s
hands. When he was told this
poor old Stan was very upset.
But there were the facts. The
revelation made him very
hygiene-conscious.
Obviously a lot of the bugs
come from plain dirt about the
shed, and commonsense cleanli-
ness will help a lot. One simple
rule is: never let things in
contact with the outside of the
cow’s udder, or the outer parts
of the machine which are
handled, come in contact with
the inside of the machine where
the milk flows,
A farmer I knew was having
trouble with his grading, and
it completely bluffed the dairy-
officer. He was telling the
herd-tester, a smart, attractive
girl to whom he was happy
to pour out his troubles, about
his grading problem. Quite
quickly she solved the problem.
After the first few cows started
milking the farmer had a habit
of going to the milk-room and
making the milk spread evenly
over the cooler by wiping it
over the surface with his hands.
He had, of course, just come
from handling the cows. He
didn’t believe the herd-tester,
but finally agreed to stop the
habit for a while. His grades
immediately improved.
I have seen a farmer start
to clean his milking-machine
by throwing the teat-cups into
buckets of water and then pro-
ceeding to scrub the outsides
thoroughly. He then put them:
into another bucket and started
to rinse the machine by drawing
water through them. The first
dunking certainly removed
most of the dirt from the out-
sides. The dirty water went up
inside the cups, and the bugs
thus had a chance to con-
taminate a part of the machine
otherwise fairly clean.
There is another bad habit
which is even more common,
Most farmers are a wee bit
mean, and they hate the
thought of a drop of milk being
left in the machine after milk-
ing. They will pull the bung
out of the end of the milk-pipe
and so cause a great burst ot
wind to blow along the pipe,
sweeping the last drops of milk
before it. In doing this the
vacuum in the machine is lost
and all the rubber seals are
released. The milk flows in
under them, and when the
vacuum is created again—
when the bung is put back into
the milk-pipe, the seals close-
up, so trapping a film of milk.
This happens in the sight-
glasses, in the milk-pipe joints
and in the releaser, among
other parts. No matter how
thorough the farmer is in
cleaning his machine, this film
of milk will stay where it is.
Now, there is nothing a bug
likes better than a warm place
where it is unmolested. These
little crannies around the seals
of the milking-machine are
ideal playgrounds for lots of
bugs ; there is protection from
detergents and two feeds a day
when the film of milk is let in.
In these happy circumstances


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 18 78
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:»
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. V- MAITLAND, Managing Director. O. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
it isn’t surprising that the bugs
are fruitful and multiply. And,
of course, they pop out from
time to time and swim away in
the farmer’s milk.
This isn’t good for the
grading. My advice is: never
let the vacuum down until the
detergent has gone through. If
you must get that little drop
of milk, draw a couple of
pints of slightly warm water
through the last set of cups.
And that reminds me of
another bad habit. I have often
seen farmers begin to wash the
machine starting from the far
end of the shed.
This is a funny idea. Let’s
take a look at what is going
-on inside the machine.
All of the vertical milk-tubes
have some milk in them. When
we start rinsing the machine at
the far end the first lot of
water dilutes the milk in the far
tubes and runs along the milk-
pipe, rinsing it properly. When
the second set of cups is done,
again the milk is diluted, most
of the water with some milk
in it runs to the releaser, but
some runs back towards the
part of the pipe we have just
rinsed. This goes on right
along the machine, so that
when we rinse the last set of
cups the milk-pipe all the way
to the far end is again con-
taminated with milky water.
The next thing is, the farmer
runs in some hot detergent. It
flows into a vacuum which may
or may not make it boil, de-
pending on its temperature.
Hot vapor goes ahead of the
water along the milk-pipe and
heats it up. This cooks on the
film of dilute-milk which our
wrong method of rinsing has
caused, and so builds-up a nice
tasty layer of food for a juicy
crop of bugs which have no
thought for the quality of the
milk which will flow over their
home at the next milking.
I could go on like this for a
long time. However, I think
we have had enough examples
to make it clear that it is easy
to make silly mistakes in one’s
hygiene in the cowshed.
The main points are: First,
bugs need food; use a good
cleaning - method, including
recommended detergents at the
right concentration. This will
get contamination out of the
machine and so starve the bugs
out. Second, if you can, use
really boiling water for the last
rinse of the machine and cook
any bugs which remain. If you
haven’t got boiling-water, for
goodness’ sake don’t use just
hot water. This only kills the
bugs which are easily killed in
the pasteuriser, and encourages
the tougher ones which aren’t
killed by pasteurisation.
If you haven’t got boiling-
water use chlorine solutions or
iodophors, which kill by
chemical action. The final
rinse should contain a bug-
killer. Third, just before milk-
ing, use a rinse containing
chlorine or iodine just to mop-
up any visitors which have
arrived during the day.
Finally, wash-the cows’ udders
thoroughly with a good anti-
septic chlorine, iodine or
what we call a “quat” (quater-
nary ammonium germicide).
This will kill bugs on the udders
and on the milker’s hands.
There is no easy way to deal
with bugs. They are every-
where, just waiting for a chance
to play a dirty trick on you.
You must obey the rules of
good hygiene at every milking.
You may often feel sleepy or
lazy, but the bugs unfortunately
never slumber or sleep.
Grazing Lucerne
“Billjim”: 'Tests show that
beef-cattle will gain an average
of 401 b. more when grazed on
lucerne which is flowering than
when it is 9in. high.
A 42-day period, January to
March, was chosen, and 28
steers were grazed on two
separate areas, with no supple-
mentary feeding.
Only one steer of either
group one grazing on the
short lucerne —showed signs of
bloat.
The group grazing the
flowering lucerne gained 14251 b.
in the period, compared with
8651 b. for the cattle on short
lucerne. A gain of 2.41 b. a day
was recorded for the group on
flowering lucerne ; this is
comparable to the normal gains
made on pastures during the
spring flush.
Nitrogen
“Bright”: The recent run of
frosts in southern Australia
showed how much nitrogen (as
a gas) protects plants.
Evidence that plants which
had ample nitrogen did better
in frost than those not so
favored confirms similar find-
ings overseas. At the other end
of the scale, it’s been shown
that plants rich in nitrogen
resist drought better than those
deficient in it.
Without undue stretching of
the imagination, it’s also
apparent that nitrogen is an
important factor in resisting
wind-damage. For instance,
light sandhills can be protected
from the wind by cereals as
long as the crop gets 601 b. of
sulphate-of-ammonia—a nitro-
genous fertiliser as well as
601 b. to the acre of super.
Leave the nitrogen out, and
the seed and super, might be
wasted—for the current season,
at least.
For resisting water-erosion,
nitrogen improves the structure
of the soil, making it crumbly
and less susceptible than defi-
cient soils to washing or setting
hard.
Nitrogen is the key plant-
food for building protein and
consequently producing high-
quality flour, etc. Unfortu-
nately, the relatively high cost
of nitrogenous fertilisers
prevents their use by most
farmers—except, for example,
citrus-growers, who use them
as routine.
However, in most districts
clovers are being used to build-
up nitrogen in the soil cheaply
while the land is not being
cropped. Where it can be
practised, clover-ley farming
does this particularly well. Even
dried-fruits growers are using
clovers as well as tick-beans
to build necessary nitrogen
between crops.
Use of Land
“C.8.M.”: “Glenelg” (B.
24/9/’5B) raises a thought-
provoking point: whether it’s
more profitable to acquire
already developed land or take-
up country which calls for
clearing and initial improve-
ment.
As a bank-manager with
experience of both types of
land, I would say that a man
who proposes to take-up new
land should not be older than
about 35, otherwise time will
beat him before he’s estab-
lished. But if he has a family
of stalwart sons coming-up,
and they show a liking for the
land, he can by all means
invest in undeveloped areas,
which offer a field for
capital-appreciation. Expan-
sion could not be carried out
profitably with paid labor, but
he and his sons, by energy,
vision and hard work, may well
secure a capital-worth and
income far beyond what might
have been obtained if the
investment had been made in
well-developed country.
Of course, there are other
aspects; but age, capital and
family assistance are para-
mount. To be blessed with
several good seasons at the
start of the venture is a con-
siderable help, but the human
element plays the greater part.
Early Weaning of Pigs
“Van”: No subject in pig-
raising has caused more discus-
sion, mostly theoretical, than
early weaning; yet among
dozens of books I’ve seen on
swine-husbandry not one men-
tions this subject in detail.
Overseas, particularly in
England, it has been practised
for some time, but its introduc-
tion to Australia has been
recent.
For the past eight months I
have given the system a
thorough trial, beginning with
one litter and gaining confi-
dence, until now I use only the
early-weaning method. I dare
say others will be interested to
know some practical details of
early weaning (and at this point
I’d like to thank the livestock-
officers of the Department of
Agriculture for their invaluable
help and encouragement).
Early weaning means more
marketable pigs; three litters
in 13 months; the sow in
better condition to take the
boar; and more economical
use of sty-space. Good
hygiene and sound animal-
husbandry are needed for
success, so anyone who hasn’t
adequate facilities in the way
of proper housing and drain-
age should not attempt it.
I have concrete sties with
floors well sloped for drainage.
The house-section of the sty
has an inner creep made of
wellmesh, with flat iron sides
to prevent draughts. The
house has two doors, with a
cement wall between them, to
which the inner creep and an
outer creep for feed are bolted.
The inner creep has the same
dimensions as the round
farrowing-house and gives


similar protection to the young
pigs. I do not use a farrowing-
rail. *
Bedding is placed in the
inner creep, and a lantern hung
there when the sow is due to
farrow. If the sow is restless
when farrowing I place the
suckers in this creep until the
sow has finished, but I prefer
them to suck as soon as they
are' born.
Because the lantern provides
warmth, and they cannot be
disturbed by the sow, the
suckers soon develop a liking
for the creep, and can be
found there whenever they are
not suckling their mother.
This is the first stage of early
weaning, because when two
or three days old the suckers
consider their mother as a
food-supply only, and look to
the creep for protection and
warmth.
In cold weather I leave the
lantern alight for three days
after farrowing, and then light
it only at night for four more
nights. The suckers will con-
tinue to use the creep from
habit. At about four days I
provide some of the weaning-
ration for them to experiment
with, and often they take to it
readily. I feel that it is better
for them to cope with marking
while they are still on their
mother, so generally do this on
the tenth day.
After the farrowing I
increase the sow’s ration of
grain and concentrates by lib.
each day, so that she gets 51b.
on the fifth day; then I hold
it at that quantity until wean-
ing is completed. From the
fifth day on she also gets as
much greenfeed as she can
eat. It’s not necessary to boost
the sow’s feeding when early
weaning is followed.
Generally I wean the suckers
when they are 13 days old,
giving the sow 2oz. of Epsom-
salt in a little mash', removing
her from the sty, and placing
the early-weaning ration in a
shallow dish in the house.
The piglets will eat it more
readily there for a start,
especially if the weather is
cold; also, they sense that
their mother has gone and are
shy at coming out in the open.
See that plenty of clean water
is provided, and supply a dry
ration from weaning onwards,
for it’s no good feeding a
sloppy mixture.
In winter I light the creep-
lamp when the piglets are
weaned and keep it going at
night for a week. If a creep
isn’t built in the sty it’s’easy
to construct one out of four
bales of hay ; two placed out
from the wall and the other
two across them, to form a
cubby-house which can be
enlarged as the piglets grow.
It’s only necessary for the first
fortnight after weaning.
Following weaning, the sow
should be watched carefully to
see that she is drying-off, and
she should be brought back
on to her food slowly, will
generally take the boar about
three days after her udder
starts to slacken, roughly six
days after weaning. An impor-
tant advantage in this is that
she does not lose condition.
It is estimated that a sow loses
up to 801 b. body-weight when
sne suckles a litter to eight-
weeks, but with early weaning
sows hold their condition be-
cause no strain has been placed
on them, and after being served
they do well for at least six
weeks on good pasture without
any grain.
The early-weaning ration
consists of three mixtures for
set age-groups. I feed vita-
mins A, D 3, B, an antibiotic
such as terramycin, and iron-
sulphate, salt and lime, giving
terramycin and iron-sulphate
on the day of birth and again
three days laterr
Yellow-grass
“Wilco”: Commenting on
my item (B. 11/6/’5B) on
“yellow-grass” (nickname for
Paspalum conjugation), . a
writer calls it “a native of
Queensland.”
Certainly it’s well established
on the tropical coast and may
possibly spread to irrigated
parts of southern Queensland
and the northern part of
N. S. Wales —but it isn’t ours.
It came across the Pacific from
Dutch Guiana.
Already a problem to all
trying to improve pastures in
the world’s warm, wet parts, it’s
superseding summer - grass,
couch-grass and nut-grass as
first weed-pests in young cane.
Piek-tip Balers
“Billimari”: A survey-team
from Melbourne University has
shown that on. an average
working-day of seven hours
pick-up balers are operated for
only half the time. Lost time
was taken-up in preparing the
machine for the day’s work,
seeing to repairs and main-
tenance, cleaning-up after
work, operators’ meals, and,
of course, the inevitable halts
called by weather.
It’s interesting to note that
there was no difference in the
time lost by big or small
machines, or by the various
makes of baler used in the
survey, and no difference in
performance between twine-
balers and wire-balers. Also,
the percentage of lost time was
practically the same for owner-
operators, contractors and
group-owned machines.
With the exception of one
model, the output during the
total time the baler should
have been operating and the
average output over the actual
operating time (excluding
breakdowns) were generally
below ratings claimed by
manufacturers.
The conclusion is that
designers of balers still have
much to learn.
Sugarcane Harvesting
“Myall”: Sugarcane-farmers
in North Queensland have set
up a Mechanical Harvesting
Committee to examine the
possibility .of obtaining prac-
tical cane-harvesting machinery.
Growers are looking ahead to
when cutters may be unpro-
curable, as has already hap-
pened in the U.S. and Hawaii,
where all cane is now mechani-
cally harvested.
Demonstrations have been
given in several places with a
machine, costing £7OOO, im-
ported from Louisiana. A
circular blade at the base,
rather like that on many motor
lawn-mowers, cuts the cane at
ground - level. A double-
pronged arm reaches out and
gathers the stalks; a second
cutting-blade severs the tops,
which are laid-out in rows. The
machine will cut either green
or burnt cane, and the ground
cutting-blade can be raised or
lowered at will.
In one demonstration it cut
approximately a ton of cane a
minute, which averages about
500 tons per eight-hour day—
as much as 50 or 60 men would
cut in the same time. On the
whole, it was done as well as
(possibly a little better than)
it would have been by cutters.
General opinion of farmers
and mill-managers was favor-
able, although the machine was
evidently not the full answer
to mechanical harvesting in
Queensland. It did an excel-
lent job in a standing crop, but
modifications were necessary
before it could handle cane
growing on hillsides or beaten-
down by strong winds.
Balanced Pasture
“Marion”: Recent emphasis
on the value of legumes in
pasture must not make us
forget the value of grasses in
a mixture. At the same time,
a pure-grass sward can cause
trouble. It’s a question of
balance.
From a nutritive point of
view recent U.S. experiments
have shown that even heavily
fertilised grasses alone do not
produce gains in livestock
equal to those from a grass-
legume sward.
In practice, it’s found that
well-manured pastures, when
heavily grazed, tend to become
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(2/10/’58)
Moderate rains "are indicated on the Queensland coast
from Rockhampton southwards during November, although
the rest of the State may have only light to moderate patchy
rains below normal. Good general rains may be expected
in the whole State during December.
Rainfall is likely to be patchy in N.S.W. during
November, apart from moderate rains on the coast, table-
lands, n.-w. slopes and plains areas. Good general rains
are indicated in December, but, apart from the coast and
tablelands, rainfall may become patchy in January.
Good rains are indicated in the southern half of
Victoria during November, although rainfall may be patchy
and vary from light to moderate in the Mallee and northern
divisions. General rains are indicated in December, and
good follow-on rains are likely during the first quarter
of 1959.
South Australia may have a dry November, apart from
light rain in the central districts. Good rains should occur
throughout the agricultural areas and interior during
December.
The North Kimberleys of Western Australia should
receive good rains during November, although light patchy
rains are likely elsewhere. The Kimberleys, south-eastern
districts, Eucla and part of the s.-w. agricultural areas
should receive good rains in December, but elsewhere poor.
LENNOX WALKER.


start the day riaht!
'M
OUO' wC
. m qEh
[•c®?
legume-dominated. Light graz-
ing favors the grasses. Clover-
dominance can be overcome,
at least temporarily, by drilling
oats or some other grass into
the sward. Next-best idea is
to provide plenty of hay or
roughage while animals are on
clover. Most graziers agree
that losses are more common
during lush seasons than when
feed is scarcer—at least up to
the drought-stage.
Balanced pastures and wise
use of conserved fodder can
make the most of prevailing
conditions, and reduce losses
which occur under poorer
management.
Light Lands in W.A.
“Bolivar”: A demonstration
of how to deal with light lands
was given by the Westralian
Department of Agriculture, in
co-operation with the owner, at
E. Smart’s Erregulla Springs
station, Mingenew, a property
of 87,000 acres about 50 miles
south-east of Geraldton and
lying in the agricultural divi-
sion known as the northern
Midlands, where the rainfall is
from 15in. to 18in.
Since 1947, 69,000 acres have
been cleared at Erregulla
Springs. This season’s harvest
will be reaped from 16,000 acres
of crops, 6000 of which are on
virgin land, while approximately
40,000 sheep and lambs are
being run on 53,000 acres of
grazing, of which 35,000 acres
are under lupins.
The property is not all light
land; of the 69,000 acres
cleared, about 25 per cent, is
good, heavy wheat-country;
the balance running-out to the
coast is typical light Midlands
coastal plain, carrying in its
natural state only low scrub.
The treatment of Western
Australian light lands varies,
so that methods successful in
the south coastal belt between
Albany and Esperance are not
necessarily suitable in the
northern Midlands.
Experimental plots put down
by the department’s officers
have shown that it’s necessary
to inoculate the seed of sub-
terranean-clover before sowing,
and necessary also to prevent
the inoculated seed from
coming into direct contact with
superphosphate by substituting
basic phosphate or using lime-
pelleted seed. Commercial lime-
pelleted seed produced in the
eastern States seemed of little
value in retaining the necessary
moisture, but a process which
farmers could use themselves
(local material with the addi-
tion of methyl-cellulose) was
successful.
Mr. Smart was able to give
costs of every stage of develop-
ment. He claims that the Mid-
lands light land is the cheapest
and easiest land to develop in
the world: within 15 months
of taking-up the land (he said)
a farmer can produce a cereal
crop (usually barley) worth
£7 to £lO per acre for an out-
lay of little more than £4 per
acre. Then he can plant lupins
to build up soil fertility and
provide good stock-feed. Within
10 years he can carry up to
two sheep to the acre on
developed land.
The cost of all operations for
the first year’s cropping, from
the initial ploughing to carting
of the crop and insurance, was
given as 435. 6d. per acre:
these are the costs for the
farmer who does his own work
with his own machinery ; he
must allow for a 30 per cent
increase if he gets the work
done by contract.
Cost of seed—barley, Wim-
mera rye-grass and lupin —plus
1401 b. of superphosphate per
acre, was given as 40s. Capital-
costs, water-supplies, fencing,
buildings, etc., were 495. 6d. per
acre.
Erregulla Springs is worked
on a large scale, so costs are
probably less than they would
be on a smaller acreage, but
this information is valuable
because it’s the result of prac-
tical experience over a number
of years and is just what new
settlers are always anxious to
find-out but rarely can.
While lupins are the mainstay
for the first few years because
of their soil-building qualities,
they are only a summer crop
for stock. The aim is to get
the soil to the condition where
it can be laid-down to a mixture
of grasses and clovers which
will provide a properly balanced
all-the-year-round pasture.
Smart is of the opinion that
development must be con-
tinuous, and that the district is
no place for the man who puts
in a couple of years’ hard work
and then finds that he has
not enough money to finish
the job.
Hormones
“Bottle Jaw”: Experiments
in Queensland show that steers
and bullocks give the best
results to hormone-implanta-
tion. This follows the pattern
of experiments overseas, where
heifers responded least of all.
The hormone directs
absorbed food-nutrients to
muscle-deposition rather than
to fat. Two primary condi-
tions must exist, though, before
hormones have any hope of
success—a breed of cattle that
will lay-on beef, and plenty of
food, so that the animal can
absorb those nutrients.
Instead of acting to lay-on
beef, hormones can slow-down
the fattening-rate if feed
becomes scarce. Even under
normal conditions, great care is
necessary when deciding to
start implantation. The best
time is when the Cattle are
about five months off slaughter-
ing. These experiments showed
that hormones work best in
the third to fourth month after
implanting, although results
could be expected up to five
months, provided there was no
shortage of feed.
The drug is injected into the
loose- flap of skin behind the
ear. As this is not used for
food, there is no danger of the
hormone being cooked and
eaten by humans.
The hormone in use in
Queensland is a synthetic
called hexcestrol, packed in
15mgm. tablets, and the maxi-
mum dose is 30mgm.
Gains of up to 351 b. per
head have been recorded,
though average gain is about
201 b. to 23ib. If the season
is unfavorable, the carcass may
show lack of bloom.
Side-effects of hormones
recorded in various parts of
the world include a thickened
neck, a tendency to pseudo-
sexual activity, overdevelop-
ment of the rudimentary teats
and a slackening of the pelvic
muscles.
It’s too early yet to say what
the true value of these hor-
mones will be. They show
promise, but (as often happens
with animal - production)
mainly benefit the man who
breeds a good meaty type and
has plenty of feed for his cattle
all the year round. Hormones
hold out little promise for the
cattle-breeder who’s content to
get-by with anything in the
line of cattle or feed.
Farm Hints
“Rose”: As lucerne-leaves
contain 20 to 25 per cent, of
protein and the stems only
9 per cent., it’s important to
keep as many leaves in the
bale as possible. Lucerne holds
its leaves best if cut when the
blooms just begin to show.
“Will C.”: Try ringbarking
timber in winter and you’ll get
proof that sap goes down. The
tops will die quickly, but below
the rings the trees will live and
sucker wildly, because the sap
is there. Most trees will die
slower, but quite completely, if
ringed in summer. You can
poison with arsenic-pentoxide
when the sap is going down in
early winter, as it takes the
dope through the root-system.
If poisoning, you may have to
grub odd box, wild-apple and
fig-trees in a thicket, since they
are resistant to even 21b.-to-the-
gallon solutions.
“Kahoka”: A cow drinks 25
to 40 gallons of water a day ;
a pig, three gallons; and 100
young fowls, four to nine
gallons—so additional water is
essential when carrying-capaci-
ties are increased.
“Boehner”: Skim-milk is
good for calves and pigs, but
needs extra vitamin-A to be of
value. In a Minnesota (U.S.A.)
test, calves fed skim-milk alone
gained less than lib. a day.
Those which got vitamin-A as
well gained l|lb.
“Stout”: Eleven calves, fed
on the same ration in a con-
trolled experiment, gained
from as little as lylb. a day to
as much as 2|lb. —an effect of
breeding on ability to put on
condition. Heredity is still an
important factor in weight-
gains, despite the emphasis on
what goes down the throat.
“Sundowner”: Sheep in low r
condition can be shorn without
loss provided they are ade-
quately fed first and leave the
shed before they have digested
all the food previously eaten.
Also, they should be fed after
leaving the shed and, if possible,
placed in a well-sheltered
paddock where they can get
good grazing for a few days.
Dry sheep certainly assist the
shearers to do a quick job, but
it’s unwise to shed sheep for
more than a day or two unless
they are in very good condition.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world-ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
CUARDX
Cd*h/
M^cth/cis
PROTECTA
sunL-Stll Rtgidija+u}
Suitable for every type of business it records
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasinf in appearance. Send for lull details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
• SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents ~
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
PERTH •
W. C. Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
• Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
. Vardon Price Ltd.
• Docket Book Co. (Auit.)
1
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Supplied
From “L.J.G.”: Inquirer 6747
(B. 1/10/’5B), who asked for words
of the song “Killaloue,” will find
them in “Music Masterpieces,
Part 36,” a publication brought out
in fortnightly parts by the Amal-
gamated Press, London, from 1922
onwards—Australasian agents were
Gordon and Gotch, Ltd.
m * ♦ •
From Charles H. Regelsen: In
B. 3/9/’5B an inquirer asked for
the words of “Miss Hooligan’s
Cake.” My late mother used to
sing it to me some 60 years ago;
I never kept a copy of the words,
but as far as I can recall there
was only one verse. It went like
this:
It was one fine day in December,
And the letter-man brought unto me
A little gilt-edged invitation:
“Would Miss ——- come over to tea ?”
Sure, and I knew that the Hooligans
sent it,
So I went for old friendship's sake,
And the first thing they gave me to
tackle
Was a slice of Miss Hooligan’s cake.
CHORUS:
There were plums and prunes and
cherries,
Cinnamon, raisins, and currants too,
Licorice-sticks and candies,
And the crust it tasted like glue.
There were earraway-seeds in abund-
ance,
Sure, 'twould give you a fine stomach-
ache :
You could kill a man twice, after eating
a slice
Of Miss Hooligan’s Christmas-cake.
Information Sought
How many different types of
spiders are there in Australia, and
what’s the most dangerous species '/
There are approximately 1400
species of spiders recorded in Aus-
tralia, but of these very few are
dangerous to man. The most
widely distributed of the “bad”
spiders is the redback, small and
black with a band of red on the
back. This species, a close relative
of the katipo of New Zealand and
the “black widow” of America,
haunts rubbish-heaps and out-
houses and its bite has sometimes
resulted in death, sometimes in
severe illness. The only other Aus-
tralian spiders classed as danger-
ous are members of the genus atrax
(funnelwebs); spiders of this genus
have been responsible for at least six
deaths in the Sydney area.
Generally speaking, the spiders of
Australia belong to groups of uni-
versal distribution, but they include
many species that are distinctive in
appearance or habit, or both.
Among them are the large mem-
“Now he Wants to he a jockey because he gets seasick."
bers of the genus nephila, the bird-
catching spiders (some of which
capture small birds, as well as
insects, in their strong webs); the
so-called magnificent spiders, which
capture, their prey on a “fishing-
line” baited with a globule of viscid
matter, which they whirl about;
and a wide variety of small spiders,
some distinctly ornamental.
* * * *
Some of the uses of sawdust ?
The sawdust from seasoned
timber is fairly dry and clean, and
outlets can often be found when the
mill is favorably situated. It makes
a very satisfactory fuel, and saw-
dust-burning stoves with inclined
grates, either stepped or plain, are
used fairly extensively in America
and Canada, and comparable types
are available in Great Britain. Saw-
dust has been used with a certain
amount of success as an aggregate
in pre-cast concrete units for build-
ing purposes. Sawdust-cement has
fairly good insulating properties,
but has the major disadvantage of
a high initial shrinkage on drying.
Sawdust is also used for fire-
lighters and briquettes (dry sawdust
and shavings); gas - production
(shavings x or mixture of sawdust,
dry) and in fish- and bacon-curing
(sawdust mixed with shavings). It
is used as a filler in some gypsum
products, including plasterboard,
and in recent years the production
of wallboards from sawdust and
wood-chips has been considered.
Dry sawdust (sometimes in a mix-
ture with chips and shavings) is used
for heat-insulation in floors and
partition-walls, cold-stores, ice-
chests, etc., and for the lagging of
hot-water tanks and pipes. Sawdust
produced in the conversion of green
timber presents a host of difficulties;
apart from a small consumption for
floor-sweeping and the protection of
freshly-laid concrete, there are few
uses for it.
* * * *
How to prepare pemmican ?
Simple to make, although the
process is rather involved. Meat is
cut into thin strips, wiped as dry
as possible, and slowly dried either
in sunny shade or a slow oven.
Keep an eye on it and turn it
frequently. When quite dry, shred
or grind to rough powder-form:
an electric kitchen-shredder can be
used. Pack it in sterilised, air-tight
jars; it should keep well if kept
cool.
North American Indians are said
to have made it into a paste by
adding fat: fat so used should be
thinned and cleared by boiling in
water, skimming and drying. Steri-
lisation is important at all stages.
Not a very suitable food to carry
in hot climates.
* * * *
How to remove stains from silver-
gilt ?
Three likely methods: (a) A pinch
of table-salt on the end of a
slightly moistened finger rubbed on
the stains usually does the trick.
Very fine kitchen abradants, either
damp or dry, may be used. Egg-
spoons and salt-spoons gilded inside
invariably lose their gilding with
constant use.
■ (b) Into a glass of water pour
about 20 drops of household
ammonia, immerse the article
repeatedly, brush with a soft brush,
rinse very well and dry with a
soft cloth. .
(c) Powdered-alum 1 part, cream-
of-tartar 2 parts, moistened and
rubbed on the stains, washed off
quickly. Repeat until clean.
This type of gilding is generally
very thin and easily removed by
rubbing.
Winners of the Nuffield Founda-
tion farming - scholarships for
1958-59 ?
This year two awards were offered
to farmers resident in N. S. Wales,
Queensland and the A.C.T. The
scholarships are offered each year
to Australian farmers to enable
them to spend about six months in
the U.K., visiting farms and agri-
cultural institutions and generally
gaining experience of the kind that
will be valuable to them on their
return home.
Winners of farming-scholarships
for 1958-59 are D. J. Asimus, of
Mt. Horeb (N.S.W.), and K. E.
McLean, of B'eaudesert (Q.).
Mr. Asimus runs a property of
900 acres devoted to dairying and
breeding fat-lambs and pigs. Mr.
McLean operates his own dairy-
farm of 150 acres at Beaudesert.
He runs 38 cows, and fattens pigs
and cockerels.
* * * *
(1) I’m interested in releasing
trout or some similar fish in a body
of water one mile in length, a
quarter-mile wide and 35ft.
deep (max.). (2) Where can l get
fish-spawn or fingerlings ?
(1) First, for rearing fish, a con-
stant depth of about 6ft. is ideal.
Where evaporation is likely to
reduce the water in the pond a
greater depth might be advisable,
but at depths greater than 15ft. the
oxygen-content of the water at the
bottom will be reduced and this may
be harmful. And in deeper ponds
the food for the fish may be lost in
the bottom mud. Flowering shrubs,
trees and grass should be established
on the banks and on all raw soil in
the vicinity so that the water will
stay clear. Weeds on the edges of
the pond should be cleared away.
Trout will only live in water where
the highest temperature of the sur-
face-water does not exceed 75° F.
at the height of summer. Another
fish is English perch, an imported
species, which has been, established
in the lower Murray system for
more than 50 years. These fish are
very plentiful in some areas. The
Department of Fisheries, however,
generally does not permit the intro-
duction of English perch into dams
or ponds in any area unless these
fish are already established in
streams in the surrounding area. A
difficulty in farming this species is
that it is a prolific breeder, and
spawns at a small size, so that the
provision of “pan-sized” fish is not
easy, despite the numbers of fish in
the dam. English perch will cer-
tainly spawn under pond conditions,
but trout will not breed unless a
stream of running water is available.
As for native species, it has been
established that Murray cod, callop,
silver-perch and catfish will live and
grow in dams in which there is a
plentiful supply of food.
(2) Three hatcheries are operated


Mountain View Private
Hospital,
Mount Victoria.
Now open to receive medical, post-
operative, convalescent and chronic
bed cases. Diabetic and special
diets catered for. Day and night
staff. Senior citizens welcomed.
TV in patients’ lounge. Full
hospital benefits.
Apply Matron, Mt. Vic. 241.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO JOHN GEOFFREY BERRY late of
Dungog in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that ESTHER
HANNAH BERRY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2939 of 1958 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Divorce Office Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by sth December 1958
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from R. S. WOODGATE,
Solicitor, 44 King Street, Newcastle.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
BALD PATCHES
Hair grown secret formula
Sacred Eastern Oils. Rarely
fails. Treats Alopecia. Leading
broadcaster’s hair grown after
years of Baldness. Effective
treatment for dandruff (Basic
cause of nearly all hair sick-
ness). and stops falling hair.
My herbal treatment restores
grey hair to original colour.
Not a dye—not injurious, not
obvious. Names given of lead-
ing citizens (with their per-
mission) who gratefully testify.
My treatment used in privacy
of your home.
For free advice write—
MRS. A. EASTON,
Box 5204, G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE
in N. S. Wales by the three trout-
acclimatisation societies, or try
Ballarat Fish Acclimatisation
Society in Victoria. Each of the
N.S.W. societies operates a
hatchery; the addresses are:
New England Trout Acclimatisation
Society, Box 2, Armidale; Central
Acclimatisation Society, Box 44,
P. 0., Bathurst; and Monaro
Acclimatisation Society, Box 14,
P. 0., Cooma. If trout are to be
obtained from a hatchery in N. S.
Wales it is not necessary for the
landowner concerned to approach
the department; if they are to be
obtained from the Ballarat Fish
Acclimatisation Society, contact the
Fisheries Department, Chief Secre-
tary’s Office, and fill-out a form giv-
ing specific details of the area to be
fish-farmed. In stocking a dam with
native fish it is necessary either for
the landowner to take the fish from
some nearby stream and transplant
them into the dam or else to arrange
for a licensed fisherman to do the
job. The Fisheries and Oyster
Farm Act requires that the per-
mission of the Chief Secretary must
first be obtained before any fish are
transplanted. Fish for fish-farming
experiments may be taken either by
means of a trap of prescribed
dimensions or a net. Where a land-
holder proposes to stock his dam
with trout or English perch there’s
no definite guarantee that fish will
be available. And when a permit
is issued either to import fish or net
them, simple statistics must be kept.
* * * *
(1) Method of smoking fish ? (2)
How to cure olive.* ?
(1) The fish is cleaned, dried, and
hung where it can get the smoke
from a very smoky fire. A
smoker can be made from a
clean box, turned upside-down, with
hooks or lines in its roof for hang-
ing the fish —put it on low brick
supports over the fire. Any non-
poisonous wood may be used;
encourage smokiness by adding
damp vegetation. The fish may also
be hung from a rod over the fire,
lightly covered with dampish sacks
to confine the smoke, a little venti-
lation being provided to carry-off
fumes. In fact, any method where-
by the fish is subjected to heavy
smoke for some hours will do the
trick.
(2) Pick the olives just before they
color; avoid bruising. Soak them
for 48 hrs. in a solution of 2oz.
caustic-soda to every gallon of
fruit to remove bitterness. Rinse
repeatedly in clean water for two
days. Soak for a couple of days in
6oz. salt to Igal. water. Transfer
to a brine of lOoz. salt to lgal.
water for two weeks; as a final
touch, stick into a brine of 14oz.
salt to lgal. water.
During proceedings, keep the
olives away from excessive light and
air. Use a wooden or unchipped
enamel receptacle all the time (no
metal!). If this process deters the
home-worker, try a simple gherkin-
pickling recipe from a cookery-
book.
* * * *
(1) How is an individual’s I.Q.
rating determined ? (2) What are
the optimum ratings for inferior,
normal and superior ? (3) Names of
a few books on the subject ?
(1) The I.Q. (intelligence-quotient)
of a person is determined by a scale
of carefully standardised tests,
graduated according to age; the
Stanford Revision of the Binet
scale is possibly the best-known.
Norm of performance on these tests
has been calculated by the statistical
method; the individual’s score on
the tests is compared with the stan-
dard performance. His performance
may be below, equal to or above
the norm for his age, so that he
may be inferior, normal or superior
in intelligence. (2) Roughly, ratings
below an I.Q. of 70 would repre-
sent mental-deficiency; between 70
and about 95, dullness; between 95
and 110, normal intelligence;
between 110 and 125, superior; and
over 125, very superior. (3) Ter-
man’s The Measurement of Intelli-
gence; Pintner and Patterson’s A
Scale of Performance Tests, and
Freeman’s Mental Tests, Their
History and Principles and Applica-
tions.
Brief Answers
H.M.G.; You’ll find an explana-
tion in B. 16/7/’5B. Copy will
be posted on request... .J.R.: The
Mines Inspection Act, 1901-45,
states (in part) that the temperature
ot any working-place underground,
with the exception of shafts, rises,
winzes, chutes and passes, shall not
exceed 80° F., wet-bulb, but an
inspector may allow work to be
permitted in a higher temperature
provided he is satisfied that it is
not practicable to maintain a lower
temperature and upon the condition
that the working-hours of employees
therein shall not exceed six in any
one shift. The working-hours of
employees engaged in shafts, rises,
winzes, chutes and passes where
the temperature exceeds 78° F., wet-
bulb, shall not exceed six in any one
shift A.S.: That fellow with
the picture is still looking at a
photo of his son W.E.: (1) No
figures available. (2) Of 189,000
merchant-seamen serving in War II
there were 43,582 casualties, 30,589
killed, 4090 missing and 4088
prisoners - of - war T.8.H.; No
statistics available relating to the
health of similar age-groups prior
to World War 11. No information
as to whether there is a tendency
towards future Australians being
shorter in stature L.D.L. (from
L. Owen): Most of my field geologi-
cal work has been done on oilfields,
so I hardly regard myself as an
authority on gold, although I’ve
had some experience in goldmining.
Impossible for me, without per-
sonal examination of the lode in
question, to express a firm opinion
as to what happened to a deposit
which (apparently at one point
only) showed such high values as
22dwt. of gold over a width of
22ft. The obvious inference is
that this value was concentrated in
a very localised “pocket.” Suggest
you write to the Chief Geologist,
Department of Mines, Treasury
Place, Melbourne, giving him par-
ticulars as to the locality, etc., of
the lode J.S.: Lineage-rates vary
according to the different type-
measures. Narrow measure is 3d.
per line, wide measure (as in
“Society”) 4d., “Red Page” 6d.
Special articles pay £3 3s. per 1000
words; short-stories are judged both
on length and appeal... .D.G. It
rings a bell; could be in one of
the anthologies. Watch these
columns C.S.: Yes, but you
don’t come by a volume like that
every day of the week. It would
seem that the price asked is fair
enough.... J.W.: By * “legal agree-
ment” you presumably mean an
agreement in writing signed in a
solemn manner. The fact that two
parties conduct a business jointly
can itself constitute a partnership,
provided that they conduct the busi-
ness in a certain way; e.g., by shar-
ing profits and losses. A partnership
may be terminated by agreement or
by a suit in the Equity Court. The
latter method is used where the
termination is desired by one of
the partners only, or by less than
the total number if there are more
than two. Questions of additional
moneys due to either partners are
usually thrashed-out during or after
the partnership suit... .A.R.8.: It
would depend entirely on what sort
of gifts the husband had given the
wife and how long before. If she
showed that the policy had been
taken out by herself and the
premiums paid out of her separate
estate, that should be enough.
There is no doubt that once a
husband has given a gift to his
wife it becomes the property of the
wife. In the event of the husband’s
death within three years of the gift
neither the gift nor the policy-
proceeds would go back into the
estate. The amount of the gift
would be considered part of the
estate for the purpose of levying
duty; amount of the gift would still
remain' the property of the wife.
Both son and daughter are in the
same position as the wife
D.Y.: “Japan Vista” is a “semi-
annual” magazine published in
Tokyo jointly by the Japan-
Australia Society and the Japan-
New Zealand Society... .R.F.:
Most newspapers recruit their staff
from cadet-journalists. Often the
cadet starts work either as a copy-
boy or proof-reader’s assistant; his
primary qualification must be the
ability to write. A cadetship in
journalism takes four years.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor,
thinks necessary.
M.G.M.: There’s a faint
ghostly rattle of something in “The
Ghost Train” T.K.: Liberal
rhymes are all very well, but how
could you bear to put “whorl” with
“fall” and “because” with “cor-
ridors”?. .E.C.H.: It bounces
with great vigor on flat feet...,
Tanda: It touches new depths
ATI.: You need fewer adjectives
and more rhymes... .N.G.C.: Try
it on the girl D.: Despite
Donne, Hopkins and Empson, it
really is a little too much to have
your love in one small sonnet
depicted as Archimedes’s Principle,
a portulaca, a gearbox, an ocean, a
drum, a loom, a shuttle, a piccolo
and the combining atoms of hydro-
gen and oxygen DJ.: Both
slight... .N.S.: Nea r 1 y... .J. 8.:
Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims which state the
section in which paragraphs
appear and the date of
appearance will be paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
“My pet aversion, the seven-figure
phone-numbers, will b'e the subject
of my next verse.” In the spring-
time, the only pretty ring-time?
. ...A.C.: That’s a very woeful
poem about old Jim R.L.: No
more deserted houses, please
Akdon: Liked your letter better
than the sapphics... .M.H.: Adds
little to a stock subject....
T.McM.: Harmless... .P.W.
(Fiji); Say it ,in prose L.D.:
Both got a second reading....
D.G.: Change the “gust” and it
wouldn’t be too bad —presuming
you’re young H.J.F.: Their vir-
tues of terseness, observation and
humor don’t quite carry them into
poetry, though they come pretty
close. Try some more, or put them
into short-stories W.C.E.: “It is
what is known as a Po era.” Bring
it in, then :
CIVILITY
If wisdom did prevail there might well
be a law . . .
But . . . statute, without fail, is always
lacking; for—
Statute makers avail to banish what is
meant!
As polities divide and stonker the
latent
Civility and hide the strewn diversity
In mandates misapplied wherein no
sense can be!
By such means government deign to
function govern !
Civilly experiment without intent to
learn !
Evatt says Menzies’ pent with un-
employing, for—
Evatt would all employ he thinks that
is the law!
While Menzies does annoy full employ-
ment as by—
Output employees cloy shrinking pay-
rolls; that’s why!


Women' Letter
SYDNEY
The Waratah Festival made Sydney a
city of gaiety during the week, though
only in patches. Bligh Street was no
less sedate than usual, George Street no
less bustling. In Castlereagh Street it
was business as usual, and Sussex Street
went stolidly about its business. But . . .
Citizens who hurried down Oxford
Street (workaday as ever) and sought to
take a short-cut through Hyde Park were
likely to find themselves the centre of
marching-displays, massed bands, wood-
chopping-exhibitions, mannequin-parades,
art- and sculpture-exhibitions, and danc-
ing of all sorts, folk, square, ballet and
Scottish. One could come upon people
demonstrating wrestling, boxing and
judo, or flying model-aeroplanes, while a
merry-go-round, slippery-dips and a
ferris-wheel brought bright clusters of
children and mothers to the Elizabeth
Street side of the park.
For a while ohe seemed to exist in a
lighthearted wonderland city, for the trees
were either in blossom or showing forth
the spring’s fresh greenery, and the sun
shone and the fountain played and every-
one seemed happy and gay.
The same thing happened when one
went up King’s Cross way, for here there
was a Calypso Carnival, dancing in the
streets, jazz-bands and concerts by night.
Then, from time to time, one came upon
magnificent flower-displays in office-
buildings, and there was a floral festival
in the Town Hall. If one went to town
on Saturday one saw a procession two
miles long with 50 floats and 4000 people,
led by the Waratah Queen, 19-year-old
Marlene Gray, of Lane Cove, chosen for
her looks and charm from among the
girl-lunchers in Hyde Park, and also
because her foot fitted the Cinderella-
slipper. (The slipper, by the way, was
size BA. Women’s feet must have grown
since Cinderella’s day!)
Yet there were many people in Sydney
who were only vaguely aware that the
Waratah Festival was on, and some who
took part in it without knowing that
they did so. You see, events which nor-
mally take place about this time of the
year were listed as Waratah Festival
functions, and if one marched in the Six-
hour Day procession, went to the spring
meeting at Randwick, the film festival at
Sydney University or the all-schools
athletic championships, ohe was right in
the heart of the Waratah Festival.
☆ ☆ ☆
It has been flowers, flowers all the way
in the country, too. Orange has had its
Cherry Blossom Festival and Goulburn
has celebrated with the lilac. Bowral
opened its heart to all flowers at the
weekend, Lord Carrington and Lady
Carrington coming up from Canberra to
do the official part of the opening. There
was sunshine and rain by turns, but the
procession, the bands and the marching
girls put on a brave show. The beautiful
gardens of the Spencer Stansfields and
the “Jock” Rossells were among the prize-
winners and attracted visitors and silver
coins for Legacy, and “Laddie” Wright’s
tulips were magnificent. Not seen by
many people was the breathtaking beauty
of Miss Arnold’s pinky-white crab-apple
tree, surely the biggest and most beauti-
ful crab-apple anywhere in Australia. At
Craigieburn the masses of stock, bordered
by gay pansies which (for pansies) seemed
to be growing right up to the sky, made
Sydneysiders really ponder the question
of what the Bowral climate has which the
Sydney climate hasn’t.
An unusual pearl ring with diamond
baguettes is being worn by Leonie Paffle,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. E. R. Paffle,
of Beecroft. Leonie's engagement,
which was recently announced, is to
Graham Hattersley, son of Mr. and Mrs.
S. G. Hattersley, of Chatswood. The
wedding, planned for July next year, will
be at St. John's Church, Darlinghurst,
and after a reception at the Wentworth
Hotel the young couple will leave for a
honeymoon on Lindeman Island in the
Barrier Reef. Photo by Norton Trevaire.
Though it comes late in the season, the
Black and White Ball (held in aid of the
Royal Blind Society) usually sets the style
for evening-wear to come, so it was
interesting to see that this year there was
a distinct change in the general sil-
houette. There were still many romantic
bouffant gowns, but it was the increased
number of slim dresses with the high
Empire-waistline that was significant.
Mrs. Eric Pratten’s black organza, with
its black-velvet bodice and bow, won first-
prize in the married women’s section and
showed the full elegance of the Empire-
line, while Prue Prevos looked sweetly
unsophisticated in a Kate Greenaway
gown of white hailspot nylon, with one
simple flower tucked into the high waist-
line. The deputy-president of the com-
mittee, Mrs. Neville Manning, pinned a
large white orchid to her classic gown
.of stiffened taffeta. Guests-of-honor were
the Governor, Sir Eric Woodward, and
Lady Woodward. Her Excellency wore
a wide-skirted dress of black chiffon.
Among the many other beautiful
dresses noted were Barbara Potter’s
peacock-line dress of white chiffon
banded at the hipline in brilliants (this
won first-prize in the section for single
girls), and Helen Jenkyn’s “powder-puff”
crinoline of white- coinspot tulle, which
was second in this section. Mrs. Bob
Mclnerney’s Empire-line dress of white
grosgrain had a tiny embroidered jacket
with long sleeves, and Mrs. Malcolm
Coppleson’s short white organdie dress
was worn with green-satin shoes, and she
carried a fan of lily-of-the-valley to
match those of her bodice.
The decor for the ball, designed by
Leslie Walford, had a Chinese motif,
the outstanding features of which were
the two huge butterflies in white, gold
and Chinese-red that floated across the
ceiling of the Trocadero hall; the figure
of Buddha in white with a red umbrella ;
and the “lantern-trees” around the room
composed of tall bamboo-fronds hold-
ing large white lanterns. A gardenia-
decorated rickshaw and a white sampan
with sails were among the features of
the foyer-decoration.
* ☆ *
Tivoli star Fredye Marshall, who is the
chief attraction in the new show
“Femmes and Furs,” has five singing
voices in her range of four-and-a-half
octaves. She has a voice for each type
of song she sings, and her programmes
can range from light opera to spirituals
and blues. Fredye Marshall sang Bess
in “Porgy and Bess” on Broadway and
on tour throughout the U.S., Canada,
Europe and the Middle East. While on
the Continent the “Porgy and Bess” com-
pany performed in opera-houses, includ-
ing La Scala in Milan. While in Sydney
Miss Marshall will give a series of broad-
casts for the A.B.C.
☆ * *
One of Australia’s most distinguished
women passed through Sydney during
the week, Mrs. Mary Tenison-Woods
having returned by Qantas with the inten-
tion of taking a long holiday. After eight
years as chief of the Status of Women
section of the United Nations she has
resigned and intends to make her home in
Sydney (at Kirribilli). Just at present,
however, she has returned to her home-
town, Adelaide, for a reunion with her
son Mac, with whom she intends taking a
holiday abroad at a later date.


MELBOURNE
A packed house at Her Majesty’s
obviously found Britten's “Peter Grimes”
—the last opera of the current
Elizabethan Trust season —to its liking,
judging by the sustained ovation and
numerous curtain-calls. Dressing was
informal —fur coats or wraps mostly
worn over short theatre-frocks.
Mrs. Aubrey Gibson, whose husband
is a member of the trust’s committee,
looked striking in a red-and-black satin
Chinese-coat worn over a black frock.
Mrs. Massey Burnside, one of the
directors of the trust, wore a full-length
mink coat over a smart black frock.
Also in the audience were Mr. and Mrs.
John Casson, Sir Robert Knox, Mr. and
Mrs. John Wallace, Mrs. E. Kirwan
(wearing a black modified-chemise frock),
Lady Grimwade, Mrs. Dolly Guy Smith,
Mr. and Mrs. A. T. Smithers, Mrs.
Maurice Sloman, Mrs. Rupert Downes,
Mrs. R. E. Hodgkinson, Mr. and Mrs.
Eric Walquist, and Mr. and Mrs. Terry
Vaughan.
☆ ☆ *
Daughter of famous soldier the late
Sir Harry Chauvel, Mrs. Elyne Mitchell,
wife of Mr. Tom Mitchell, M.L.A., has
been a lover of horses since she was a
child, so it is little wonder that her
seventh book, The Silver Brumby, should
be about one. Mrs. Mitchell wrote the
book for her 12-year-old daughter Indi
(named after the river that flow's into
the Murray). The other Mitchell
children are Harry (eight), Honor (five)
and John (three).
Mrs. Mitchell was guest-of-honor at
a luncheon at the Oriental Hotel given
by Mr. L. Voss Smith, who is manager
for Hutchinson’s, her publishers. At the
luncheon were Lady Chauvel, Mrs. Voss
Smith (who assisted her husband receive
guests), Dr. Andrew Fabyini, Mrs. A. C. J.
Pritchard, Miss M. Webber, Mr. Alan
Nicholls and Lady Medley (who men-
tioned that her daughter, Diana Barring-
ton Hall, with her husband and children,
will be moving on from N.Z. to Malaya,
where Diana’s husband will join the staff
of the High Commissioner. Her son
David is in Montreal, where he is
Director of Airways Engineering with the
Australian Department of Civil Aviation).
☆ ☆ ☆
University and medical circles will be
interested to hear that in Zurich, Switzer-
land, a son was born to Dr. and Mrs.
Karl Zwicky. Pianist and university
graduate, Mrs. Zwicky is the former Fay
Rosefield, and with her Swiss scientist-
husband will be returning shortly to
Australia, Dr. Zw'icky having accepted a
year’s research-fellowship with Sir John
Eccles at the National University,
Canberra.
V V V
“Rocking the Town,” the new Tivoli
show, was given a grand welcome at its
premiere. Winifred Atwell, who heads
the bill, wore two spectacular gowns
which featured embroideries of sequins
and pearls. In the audience were the
Premier’s wife, Mrs. Henry Bolte (wear-
ing a bronze satin theatre-coat and a
short beige lace frock mounted on white
satin), the Gordon Coopers, Sir Frank
and Lady Richardson (her choice, black
faille with a sapphire-blue mink stole),
Mr. and Mrs. George Griffith, Mrs.
David Martin, Mr. and Mrs. George
Laurens with their daughter Diana and
Miss Alice Wyatt, Sir Frank and Lady
Tait, Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Korman,
Lady Warner, Cr. and Mrs. Maurice
Nathan, Mr. and Mrs. Saul Aarons, Mr.
and Mrs. John Carrodus and Mr. and
Mrs. Frank Christie.
Well known for the lovely fashions
she designs and creates in her own work-
rooms, Mrs. Harold Holt, wife of the
Federal Minister for Labor, is always
willing to put on a fashion-show for
charity. The first function to raise money
for the Modern Museum of Art, of the
Women’s Council of which she is a
member, was held at Mrs. Holt’s Toorak
home. Herself charming, and an elegant
dresser, Mrs. Holt has three schoolboy
sons.
Members of the Chinese community
celebrated the 47th anniversary of the
Republic of China at the buffet-dinner
party given by the Chinese Consul, Mr.
K. Y. Leung, at Earl's Court, St. Kilda.
Deputy-Consul H. Y. Liu and Mrs. Liu
helped in receiving more than 300 guests.
Mrs. Leung wore a magnificent national
costume, comprising a slim skirt and
high-necked jacket of beaten gold and
silver on a rose-pink background. The
skirt was finished at the hem with silver
fringe. Mrs. Liu’s brilliant-red satin
national dress was embroidered with a
dragon in gold and silver sequins.
Andrew, Brenda and Christine, the three
tiny children of the Consul and Mrs.
Leung, were also dressed in national
costumes.
Among the guests were the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. F. W.
Thomas); Sir Clifden and Lady Eager ;
U. Consul-General Graham Hall and
Mrs. Hall (the latter in slim black frock,
topaz mink stole, and velvet curvette
in rose-pink tonings); Mrs. John Mason
(her hyacinth-blue frock of finely-pleated
orlon); Dr. and Mrs. Arnold Richard-
son ; Air-Marshal Sir John McCauley
and Lady McCauley ; Mrs. John Dynon
(whose natural-linen jacket, worn with
a slim black skirt, was embroidered in
a colorful rose design); Mr. and Mrs.
Ernest Greenhalf ; Judge Mitchell; Mr.
and Mrs. W. K. Burnside ; Mrs. David
Wang (her national-dress of scarlet satin
brocade); Mrs. Stephen Wing Dan (in
white satin brocades); Mrs. Peter Ling
(gold satin ensemble); and Mr. A. J. and
Mrs. Fraser (he representing the
Premier).
* ☆ *
Noted at the premiere at the Princess
of the musical-comedy “Free As Air”:
Mrs. Garnet Carroll's coffee-nut silk-
taffeta theatre-coat worn over a jewelled
sand-beige hand-made frock of French-
lace ; Mrs. John Faulkner's white cottons
patterned in tiny white roses ; Deanna
Day’s bouffant white cotton frock
splashed with red roses; Ann Curtis's
black taffetas and her sister Elizabeth’s
theatre-coat of haze-blue satin; Mrs.
Alan Tait’s short frock of scarlet taffeta ;
Mrs. George Griffith’s pale-pink silks
finely traced in matching braid ; Mrs.
Frank Shipton’s swathed black jersey
frock with its off-shoulder bodice out-
lined with a band of white ermine ; the
black mink stole worn by Mrs. James
McGauran with her black frock ; Mrs.
Dorothy Gitsham’s scarlet taffeta frock
and emba mink coat; and the beech-
brown velvet theatre-coat and tiny
turquoises set in the long black suede
gloves worn by Mrs. Norman Lynch.
☆ ☆ ☆
Most unspringlike weather prevailed
for the Caulfield Guineas meeting, but,
although dressing was generally on the
drab side, some pretty bretons, bowlers
and flowered wig-caps lent the fashion-
scene a touch of color. A white straw-
fabric toque, trimmed with satin, was
worn by Lady Robinson (wife of the
V. chairman) with her hyacinth-
blue relaxed-line suit. Mrs. H. Way (the
secretary’s wife) chose a charming frock
and jacket in deep-mauve wool, her
matching velvet hat trimmed with mink.
Greatly admired was the black suit worn
by Mrs. Alan Powell with a sable scarf
and turban of brown and beige jersey.
Most attractive hat of the day, worn by
Diana Laurens, was a Breton sailor of
white hatter’s-plush threaded with colored
velvet ribbon and worn with a saxe-blue
wool sheath-frock. Her mother, Mrs.
George Laurens, topped her black
ensemble with a tiny cap of black velvet
petals. Mrs. John Shaw highlighted her
navy frock with a deep white collar, and
white roses trimmed her navy hat. A
red, green and gold sash, to match her
stitched pull-on hat, embellished Mrs.
L. R. Buxton’s black sheath-frock.


Painter bears witness”; and over in
New Zealand the Otago Museum has,
amongst other items, a “superb
Caeretan hydria,” and at Canterbury
they have, especially, “one unique
black-figured amphora showing a
chorus of men on stilts.”
However, these treasures have been
chronicled before; and the immediate
occasion of Professor Trendall’s mono-
graph is the four magnificent Greek
vases which (having the resources to
compete in the world market) the
Felton Bequest acquired for the
National Gallery of Victoria in 1957:
notably the Chalcidian black-figured
psykter-amphora showing scenes from
the Trojan War. Professor Trendall
makes this vase, “recomposed from
fairly large fragments” and attributed
to the Inscriptions Master, sound a
most beautiful and exciting piece of
antiquity—“ln shape, style and quality
it has a strong claim to be ranked
among the finest, if not actually as the
finest, of the surviving examples of this
ware” —and if it is true that “most
collections of Greek Art in Australia
and New Zealand have been put
together essentially for teaching pur-
poses” —it is also true that the existence
and accessibility of these things should
be made known to the public.
The monograph is based on an
address delivered to the Humanities
Research Council in 1957 and is hand-
somely illustrated with photographs of
the vases.
Two Bird Books
Since both have their advantages and
their disadvantages, it would be diffi-
cult as well as odious to compare
J. A. Leach’s An Australian Bird Book
(Whitcombe and Tombs), revised and
rewritten for its ninth edition by
Crosbie Morrison, with the indispens-
able Cayley; and really it is not neces-
sary to do so, for most bird-lovers
wanting a guide to identification will
find it advisable to have both.
Perhaps it should be said that there
are many more color-plates in Cayley,
but, making identification difficult, they
are much smaller than those in Leach.
The Leach color-plates, on the other
hand, have one extraordinary though
not insuperable disadvantage in that
the birds dotted about the pages are not
numbered to correspond with the num-
bers and names in the footnotes, so
that you have to do quite a bit of
observation from the descriptive text
to find out which is which. This surely
must be remedied in the next edition;
and in the meantime you can—with
a little cross-reference—find your way
about.
So that one good reason for regard-
ing the book as a companion rather
than a rival to Cayley is that if you
can’t find your bird in one, you prob-
ably will in the other. Again, Leach,
being a smaller book, is handier for
carrying in the bush; but Cayley looks
handsome in the library. And, finally,
in the notes on the birds, though of
course there is a good deal of duplica-
tion, each book contains fascinating
bits of information that you don’t find
in the other.
Without going into Cayley’s special
stores of information, this reviewer had
to read Leach to learn, for example,
that the little king-quail is scientific-
ally named “Excalfactoria chinensis”
because the ancient Chinese used to
carry a couple of these tiny birds in
their pockets to warm their hands with
in winter “excalfactoria” means
“giving out heat”; and if Cayley
reminds us, as he must, that the wood-
duck is really a goose, one had for-
gotten it.
Leach —or perhaps one should say
Crosbie Morrison tells us that
Flinders said he saw 151,500,000
muttonbirds in a flock in Bass Strait,
a number corrected by A. J. Campbell
to 132,000,000: that terns possibly
recognise their nests in their teeming
nesting-grounds because every egg has
a different marking (a sort of avian
finger-printing); that gannets round-up
schools of fish before dive-bombing
them; that the black-breasted buzzard
breaks emu-eggs for its dinner by bomb-
ing them with stones; that Centralian
grass-wrens bounce like a rubber ball
(more-or-less); that the mudlark or
magpie-lark eats the pond-snails that
harbor the liver-fluke that does so much
damage amongst sheep (there is much
about the necessity for bird-protection
in the book); that satin-bowerbirds in
South Gippsland go to school —at least
they eat the children’s crusts: and all
this information, and much more of
the same kind, is, of course, invaluable.
Another bird book lately reprinted
is Michael Sharland’s Tasmanian Birds
(Angus and Robertson), which, in a
revised edition, does for the birds of
The Speck what Leach and Morrison
(and Cayley) have done for Australia
as a whole: with, naturally, more detail
for the region. It is illustrated in
black-and-white.
BLUEBOTTLES
In the warm currents, the physalia sails
—Portuguese men-o’-war, the blue-
bottles.
Flotillas of the physalia, in floating poop-
castles ;
Each like a vessel of the Armada, armed
with flails,
Bombardier, cables of torture and fire.
Oh, unwary swimmer naked on the
rack
Of the wave, feeling those whips on your
back.
Do you not fear the sea, gasp in the mire,
Grope from the sea’s noisome moat,
lucky to escape
Contorted, deformed in pain ? While
children dance,
Caper along the sands at this wild sea-
chance
That throws the physalia up, foundered
beyond hope
Of ever again seeing Portugal, or Spain,
or Europe,
Or the Pope, or whatever power lies
beyond the last cape.
Queensland.
JOHN BLIGHT.
A Sydney Thriller
It has long been understood in the
detective-novel business that you don’t
have a maniac for the murderer because
maniacs can do anything, and so you
don’t get a reasonable chance to exer-
cise your ingenuity on a reasonable
human problem. In the category of the
pure thriller, attempting merely to chill
the spine, perhaps the maniac is still
permissible; but even so it seems a
naive way of getting results, and one
wonders why so experienced a practi-
tioner as Dal Stivens should have put
his demon barrister—quite as bizarre
a figure as the mad scientist of the
comics—into his thriller The Wide
Arch (Angus and Robertson).
This wicked lawyer, who desires to
commit murder to prove he is a super-
man or something, and who finds a
vicarious crime a pleasant way of
satisfying his impulses, prompts a
fellow-barrister to push over a cliff
at Gosford the husband of the woman
with whom he is having an affair; and
then, by means of anonymous letters
and mysterious visitations in the night,
tempts the sons of both the murderer
and the victim to murder the amorous
barrister . . . though in the end he does
it himself; with a knife in a lane at
Elizabeth Bay.
Perhaps, as the publishers say, it
should be taken as a serious psychologi-
cal study, or even as an allegory of
good and evil —to which it has some
pretensions. But this reviewer could
not read it otherwise than as a thriller;
and as such found it spine-chilling
enough in spots —there is certainly
tension in the final drama in the lane
—but well below the high level we
would expect from Dal Stivens, even
in a thriller.
It seems, indeed, a good novel unduly
blood-curdled. In construction
making an effective use of the danger-
ous monologue -by - each - character
device —it is one of the best things
Stivens has done. One likes, too, his
return to straightforward prose. And,


The Wide Arch
by Dal Stivens
—a psychological drama set in Sydney. A successful barrister, happy enough with
his work and liis attractive mistress, the widow of his friend, ignores the discontent
of his family until his mistress’s son becomes suspicious of the circumstances of
his father's death. 17/6 Q )ost
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
if you take the demon barrister out of
it, there remains—though one misses
the legal background it should have—
quite a solid, attractive and dramatic
study of Sydney families; and at the
same time, though the analogy doesn’t
quite work out, an interesting applica-
tion of the Hamlet motive to the
modem scene.
New Guinea Debaters
Five years after W. E. H. Stanner
opined, in his “The South Seas in
Transition,” that New Guinea wasn’t
as full of milk and honey as people
were saying it was, New Guinea and
Australia (Angus and Robertson), a
series of essays and discussions com-
piled for the Australian Institute of
Political Science, has nothing to
oppose to the judgment of that brilliant
book.
H. C. Brookfield, in his essay on
“The Land.” and J. T. Gunther on “The
People,” present the most facts. The
land, it seems, is not very rich,
especially in the rain-forests, where the
rain washes away its fertility; and agri-
culture is possible’ there only by
shifting-cultivation. Taken all-in-all,
the best hope for New Guinea would
be a big oil-strike that would give it
developmental funds such as Saudi-
Arabia is collecting from American
wells.
Dr. Gunther considers that only the
teaching of pure English can unite a
population speaking 510 languages; he
says the natives can be taught, and
that within a decade some will be com-
peting with Australians for clerical jobs
in the Administration; that merchant-
princes are already established in the
native community; and that unless the
natives are allowed to see that Aus-
tralia is hurrying to increase their
independence and responsibility ill-will
may be developed which “will establish
an unfriendly community.”
The book then becomes a discussion
of what to do with New Guinea:
“Present Tasks and Policies,” by Paul
Hasluck, Minister for Territories; “The
Political Future,” by J. R. Kerr, first
Principal of the Australian School of
Pacific Administration, and “Defence
and Foreign Policy,” by J. Andrews,
senior lecturer in geography in the Uni-
versity of Sydney and president of the
Institute of International Affairs.
After each chapter various authori-
ties discuss it, not always favorably.
John Hohnen, managing-director of
New Guinea Goldfields, for instance,
has a few harsh words on the status of
European enterprise to add to Dr.
Brookfield’s essay; none less than A. A.
Calwell, deputy-leader of the Federal
Opposition, puts the case for the previ-
ous Labor Administration, and Labor’s
view of New Guinea problems, after
Paul Hasluck has had his say; while
P. D. Phillips, Q.C., sums-up the whole
book:—
The most significant thing in the
Minister’s [Hasluck’s] paper was
something he left out of it. He
• could have said to the vigorous
assertions of private enterprise,
“Oh, I encourage you . . .” Or he
might have said, “I am determined
to protect the natives against . . .
modern capitalism.” But he did not
say anything—because he knows
that the answer is neither of those
things but a little of each from day
to day as an empirical process of
pathfinding is mapped out.
In which case the map of New
Guinea supplied in a separate enve-
lope with the book, and the large
appendix of tabled statistics, will appear
like the Rock of Ages to the reader who
wants to know what to do with New
Guinea.
Reviewed Briefly
Three’s Company: Alfred Duggan
(Faber). A life of Aemilius Lepidus,
who. with Octavius and Mark Antony,
formed the Triumvirate after the death
of Julius Caesar. Lepidus, chiefly
remembered as the “slight, unmeritable
man, meet to be sent on errands” of
Shakspeare’s “Julius Caesar,” is here
shown as the last of the true magis-
trates, the rulers elected by free men.
His career covered the 35 years that
changed Rome from a republic to an
empire, and, though not an heroic
figure, he is a significant one.
* * * *
North From Rome: Helen Maclnnes
(Collins). This begins hopefully. A
young American in Rome sees a young
girl being abducted by villains in a
car. She later seeks his aid in a secret-
service organisation chasing dope-
dealers, and the story concentrates
around a suave Italian aristocrat who
has stolen the young American’s
fiance. The thriller is well set in Italy,
and moves in an atmosphere of recent
news and scandal about aristocratic
gangsters; but as it moves out to a
countess’s country estate the heroine’s
beauty fades, the action becomes too
emphatic and less plausible, and in the
end the reader just doesn’t care.
* * * *
Brief to Counsel: Henry Cecil
(Michael Joseph). A vade-mecum on
How to Succeed at the English Bar.
Illuminating to the layman as a guide
to the background and mechanics of
the profession, it deals succinctly with
all aspects, from remuneration to that
hardy annual, “What do you do when
you know your client is guilty?”
* * * *
Thomas Telford: L. T. C. Rolt
(Longmans). A biography of the man
who in the course of his life (1757-
1834) was probably the greatest bridge-
builder and road-maker the world has
ever known. Telford’s new roads and
canals were the arteries of Britain
during the first stage of the Industrial
Revolution, and although the railways
took their place and made Telford’s
achievements seem for a time second
to those of Stephenson, the modern
trend to motor-transport has brought
Telford’s roads, if not his name, back
to general appreciation. The author
has drawn a true and living portrait of
Telford, and at the same time made the
technicalities of engineering attractive
to ordinary readers.
* * * *
The Sable Coat: Edith Simon
(Cassell). This is an unusual and
cleverly contrived story, primarily
concerned with emotional enslavement.
The wife of an Edinburgh business-
man, overscrupulous in her considera-
tion for her Scotch maid Kirstie,
gradually finds herself overwhelmed by
Kirstie’s absolute devotion and
entangled in absurd subterfuges to spare
the woman’s feelings. There is also
a fine web of family relationships
entangling her, spun by the old schem-
ing family retainer, Fricka. The form
of the story is complex, and there is
some artificiality in dialogue and situa-
tion, but the final impression is one of
apprehension and unsolved emotional
tension,


' Sf/
STIRLING MOSS,
winner of this year's Argentine,
Dutch and Portuguese Grand Prix
The
& classics and twice runner-up in
-tire World Championship series.
names
in Motor
demand
the BEST!
m
i'L
V, t
vr
sssk
JACK BRABHAM
Australia’s outstanding
international-class driver who,
with Moss, drove to victory
in the 1958 Nurburgring
1000 Km sports car race.
and
ENERGOI
MOTOR OIL
• ••the BEST for you, too
is YOUR choice 0f...
STANDARD
i mm
The BENZOL Blends
BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED, formerly The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited
C 702
