

The Bulletin
One Beachcomber to Another— page is
Wednesday, August 6, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered In Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"It's the best idea for a birthday-party we’ve had yet."


WRITE SHORT STORIES,
ARTICLES r PARS,
AND EARN AT HOME.
Tiiere is an enormous demand for accept-
ed? MSS. It will pay you to study with
STOTT’S Correspondence College.
Read these extracts from Students’ Letters:
“During the past six months my Acceptances
have returned me over £200.”
“I am pleased to report further Successes
since LeR. 10. This makes £53 in hand, with
more to come."
“I list hereunder my Acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“My earnings from my Writing total almost
£70.”
“Since' 1 started my Course, I have had
SIXTEEN Stories and Articles accepted, so you
see the Course has more than PAID FOR
ITSELF.”
Our Literary Prospectus is seat without obliga-
tion to all interested in Writing. Write for
your copy today.
100 Kussell St.. Melbourne; 149 CastlercffKh dt.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Qrenfeil
St-. Adelaide; 254 Murray St.. Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli
(ration, your Prospectus, and full particulars ol
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDKESS
AGE. (5.8.1558)
JtOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney-
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
FORREST OF WESTRALIA
Alexander Forrest, His Life and
Times, by G. C. Bolton (Melbourne
University Press and University of
W.A.), is a reminder of how much life
and excitement awaits the literary
prospector in the hills of Australian
politics and business.
Not that Bolton is an exciting
biographer. One can only imagine
what an American biographer or his-
torical novelist would have made of
the project of Anthony Hordern, of
the Sydney merchant family, to build
a railway from Perth to Albany for a
consideration of 12,000 acres of land
along the line for every mile con-
structed; introduce 50,000 migrants;
build an agricultural college for a con-
sideration of 25-million acres of pas-
toral land on 99-years’ lease—and there
is meat for a Steinbeck in the disaster
of Hordern’s early death at 42, and his
West Australian Land Company’s pro-
ceeding with his money - making
schemes but forgetting his group-settle-
ments and agricultural colleges, so that
the Governor had to shelter immigrants,
and many left the colony.
And one has seen what an Australian
historical novelist, Katherine Susannah
Prichard, made of the Forrests on the
goldfields, wicked capitalists oppressing
virtuous prospectors, a matter of some
pain to Bolton, whose theme is largely
that the Forrests were the true solid
and responsible State-builders while
the goldminers were merely their can-
tankerous and irresponsible aftermath.
And largely, in the portrait of
Alexander Forrest, and the incidental
portrait of his more famous elder
brother, John, who was to become Lord
Forrest, Bolton makes his point.
Sons of a Scottish immigrant who
had established a mill at Picton, W.A.,
the Forrest brothers began in the
Survey Department. They explored
the country (Alexander at first as Ris
brother’s lieutenant, then on his own
account), crossing it three times, from
the south, the middle (Geraldton) and
the north (Roebourne), through the
Kimberleys to Darwin. They surveyed
what they explored; they invested in
what they surveyed; they aided settle-
ment. They entered the Government
and the new Parliament, Alexander as
representative of the district he had
been first to explore and map, the
Kimberleys; and they ruled, there seems
to be no doubt about that, the country
they had had such a big share in dis-
covering and organising.
Alexander Forrest was evidently a
quiet man-of-action and businessman:
a poor public speaker, although he was
persuasive enough when the prospectors
tried to jump his company’s claim at
Coolgardie; and a statement of his
about extending the railway to Kal-
goorlie and helping to find water drew
from Vosper, the goldfields journalist,
the suggestion that Alexander should
become leader of the Opposition against
his brother John’s Government! He
was valued for his strength and deci-
sion during his two terms as Mayor of
Perth: when a man got heated at a
meeting Alexander Forrest merely said
“Sit down.” and he sat down; when
the new electric-light company made
demands Forrest cut negotiations short
and had the town lit with gas. His
death, at 52, when he might have
expected twenty years of retirement on
great wealth, was caused less, Bolton
considers, by sickness than by the news
of the death of his son, Lieutenant
Anthony Forrest, in a charge at Middle-
berg during the Boer War.
Bolton’s book is a concise survey of
West Australian politics up to the turn
of the century. The Government, being
the Forrests, was essentially a graziers’
Government, and its policy was protec-
tionist, deriving much of its income
from duties, not only on overseas
goods but orj inter-State trade.
One of Alexander Forrest’s few mis-
takes was his early opinion that West
Australia was poor in minerals; but,
although the Forrests profited from
goldmines, it was their huge pastoral
holdings which were to them, in
Alexander’s mind, goldmines. Because
they were protectionist they disliked the
idea of Federation, which would end
tariffs between States; and it was the
demand of miners and smallholders in
opposition to the graziers for a division
of West Australia into smaller States
which finally forced the Forrests’ hands
and reconciled them to Federation.
Thus Alexander’s death in 1901
marked also the passing of the old
oligarchic idea in Western Australia,
and the onset of democracy.
Nor does Bolton neglect the inquiry
into an allegation by one Robson that
the Forrests had certain Members of
Parliament in their pay who would
otherwise have no means of support.
The main evidence was of Robson ask-
ing John Forrest “How on earth do
these men live?” and Sir John answer-
ing, “Well, my brother Alec helps
them.” The select committee found
that this statement didn’t mean what
Mr. Robson thought it meant; and,
says Bolton:
The four members named were
very angry at Robson’s statements,
and their references to him during
the Parliamentary debates of that
session were the reverse of charitable.
One imagines those scenes and feels
that, pellucid and precise as Bolton is,
there are times when he doesn’t quite
squeeze all the juice out of his material.
In Darkest Queensland
An unexpected pleasure that this
reviewer got from M. J. Unwin’s
Booran (Jacaranda Press, Brisbane)
was that it sent him back to the
immortal “Coral Island” of R. M.
Ballantyne.
It was obvious from the start —“I
might have begun my tale by telling
you of a certain November day in the
year 1814 when Sailor and I, Peter
Daintree, walked down through the
hot, dusty streets of Sydney Town to
where our boat lay swinging lazily at
her anchor-line”—that there was going
to be a certain amount of Ballantyne
in the style; with a bit of “Robinson
Crusoe,” maybe, and more than a bit
of “Treasure Island.” And then there
was that shark, when Peter heroically
rescues the little aboriginal maiden.
There was something about those rows
of teeth: —
On he came, travelling fast, and
doubtless determined to put a speedy
end to the encounter. As he drove
in to the attack, he turned slightly
on his side, so that I could see part
of his enormous mouth opening to
reveal two rows of terrible teeth . . .
And they are, indeed, on inspection,
a little like Ballantyne’s teeth:—
In a second we saw the monstrous
fish drive close under us, and turn
half-over on his side Peterkin
stopped one instant to obey the
(Continued on page 58)


BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. 'PHONE: 80951.
WSSiy.....
■ ■ ■
m
:
v
Wmm
mm
\ ~ '. *£
m. ' ::7
:
SBSS
K?i=.
iS&sjf
&M 1
<>r .j
s: "'*
mgi
I
Look! Now Betty's getting Admiral TV
Well, I'm not going to be the last in the street
to have television. I'm tirecLof doing all my viewing on the next door's set. I'm going to buy
a factory-fresh Admiral "Arlington" with the new improved Viewing. Bob says it's the very tops in
TV and it fits flush against the wall, too. And at A.H's we can have an Admiral on a deposit we can
afford. They even arrange a "home viewing" in your own living room. I'll phone A.H's today.
80951 is the number. "Arlington'' 21-inch Console is priced £264/12/-. Deposit £33/2/-.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 6, 1958
Vol. 79—No. 4095
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior /
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westraha : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
NEW MUNICHS FOR OLD
'T'HE Western nations are involved in
A the most exasperating situation that
has had to be faced since 1938-39. The
behavior of Khrushchev is much like
that of Hitler: slanderous, offensive,
bullying, courting violence, ominous.
As with Hitler in 1938, at the’time
of Munich, there is only one man
directly threatening a world upheaval.
As with Hitler, there is only one man
ready to bypass an existing world-peace
organisation and to insist that the only
hope of peace is direct agreement with
him through “summit discussion.”
What has changed in the interval is
the attitude of the Western press 'and
public opinion, a fact that seems due to
the Soviet Union’s having learnt its
lesson from Hitler’s failures and laid
a suitable background for its actions.
The Kremlin has done everything
that the Wilhelmstrasse did in 1938-39.
Where Hitler raped Czechoslovakia
and Austria, Khrushchev has' even
more violently ravaged Hungary and
other countries and egged-on others to
violence and assassination.
For every epithet of abuse that Hitler
cast at the world at large. Khrushchev
has coined a more insulting one and
has hurled his provocative bolt with
more violence and larrikin objurgation.
But Hitler was unlucky in having on
the opposing side a world propaganda
organisation in the Comintern which
took its cue from Moscow and
enchanted the soft-shells and the
parlor-pinks of the West.
The name of “Munich” is an endur-
ing term of abuse attached to the name
of the unfortunate Mr. Chamberlain
because he had the temerity to bargain
with a dictator not more malign in
general intention than Khrushchev and
to have accepted his assurances.
The same people who shrieked at him
for having abjectly surrendered to the
will of a “Fascist dictator” are now
yelling at the Western leaders because
they hesitate to plunge into a very
similar discussion under very similar
circumstances and with less hope 'of
reaching any sort of agreement that
could be relied on for ten minutes.
V\7HEN Chamberlain met Hitler the
-world had had relatively little ex-
perience of his double-dealing, whereas
the West of today has had the experi-
ence of a generation of dealing with
Moscow during which conference after
conference has been asked for and tor-
pedoed by the Red askers; treaty after
treaty made and broken; excuse .after
excuse for Russian aggression, from
the attacks on Poland and the Baltic
States and little Finland and South
Korea onward, translated into action
at the cost of millions of lives.
Khrushchev’s objective now is
obviously'to bring the West rushing to
meet him in terror of world war to
prove his power to dominate world
politics.
He was, and is, anxious for a con-
ference without fixed objectives so
that he can make his own agenda. He
is anxious for no conference which he
does not dominate, in which he cannot
have the little nomad nations of the
Middle East present so that they can
hear him talk-down to the minnows
of the United States and the .United
Kingdom, those harassed men who
must pursue their actions in the light
of day amid a pack of irresponsible and
vocal editors.
The last thing Khrushchev wants is
an agreement for the U.S. to withdraw
under U.N. aegis, because that would
rob him of his main weapon and make
his charge of aggression look silly.
What he does want is abject with-
drawal under threat from Moscow, so
that the great Western Powers will lose
all face in Asia and have their claws
clipped fit Seato and the Baghdad Pact.
Then, to achieve this end in a proper
atmosphere of publicity, he wanted —•
on three days’ notice—a conference at
Geneva of which he had chosen the
date at which the heads of the U.S.S.R.,
U.S., U.K. and France, with the
Secretary-General of the U.N. present,
should “confer,” he telling the rest
where they must get off, the foregone
conclusion being reported to the
Security Council, which should meet
“with the participation of the Arab
countries” and examine what came out
of the meeting.
This plan had immense advantages
for Russia and for Nasser. It was cer-
tain to offend Pakistan, which was
ignored, while India was to be drawn-
in and advertised as a spearhead of
peace. Persia and Turkey were to be
excluded, and by way of excuse for
their exclusion Khrushchev sought to
show that they were not kind, peace-
loving lands like Egypt and Syria but
“aggressors” contemplating an attack
on Iraq, a charge which he obviously
invented both to discredit them with
the fatheads of the West and to raise
the temperature of the Arab leaders.
Yet it would have been impossible
for the West, on the very verge of a
Council meeting of the Baghdad Pact,
vitally important because of the defec-
tion of a key member, to enter into
a conference on the Middle East with-
out consideration and perhaps consul-
tation with the other members of the
Pact, and without their endorsement.
The Arab League nations as a whole
in the Middle East do not include more
than 40,000,000 people, the largest of
them being Egypt with 19 million,
the next Iraq and Syria and Saudi
Arabia in the four-million bracket,
with the rest a tail of little States, some
of them, like Yemen, so nebulous that
.their exact areas and populations are
not even known.
On the other hand, the three Bagh-
dad Pact States in the area aggregate
about 130-million people and hold a
greater population between them than
European Russia, excluding the
Ukraine. Pakistan (75 million) has
more people than .any country in
Europe west of the Russian border.
And Turkey is stronger militarily than
any country in the Western zone in
Europe, leaving out France.
VET these were to be offended by
x being excluded, while the handful
of Arabs were to be held up by recogni-
tion as being the only element in the
area to be considered. Added to this,
Israel was to be left out; and whatever
it may be as an emblem of
Western blundering, it is the one coun-
try within the Arab zone—as defined
by Moscow---which has a democratic
Government instead of an Administra-
tion maintained in power by a military
junta, or through force of arms.
There is only one way to meet firm-
ness—with firmness. That is being
shown by the .Western leaders.. By
following the Constitutional course
under the Charter qf the United
Nations they have stifled Parliamen-
tary opposition in their legislatures and
in the main have Opposition support
behind them, particularly in the U.K.
By signing undertakings to support
individual members of the Baghdad
Pact to come to their aid if need be,
the United States has kept itself right
with the nations that most matter in
the Middle East zone. And by its
declaration that it will not desert its
friends it has kept its face with Asia.
Khrushchev is either bent on world
war or he is not; £nd if he is, a
conference will not stop him. If he
isn’t, there is no reason to give him
special treatment outside the U.N., of
which Russia is a permanent' member
and supposed bulwark of the Charter.


ANOTHER RIDDLE OF THE EAST


PLAIN ENGLISH
War and a Prophet
China has been almost forgotten during
the past few weeks while Khrushchev
has held the stage. . For months China
has been feeding tame trade-unionists
from Australia and elsewhere with fairy-
stories about its innocence of intention
and its drift from Communism, salted
with other' diversions from the truth
likely to catch the eye of sensation-
minded editors such as.the furphy that
Mao was on his way out and was being
supplanted by the tender-hearted Western-
leaning Chou En-lai.
At the same time China and Russia
have been following’ their old rule: When
Khrushchev (or Stalin or Lenin) turns
over, Red China turns over.
Their ambassadors from abroad were
called home contemporaneously a few
weeks ago. Their reactions to the Middle
East developments showed mutual split-
second planning. On the day that
Russians raided and damaged the U.S.
Embassy in Moscow in a regimented
mass, a million-and-a-half Chinese on
July 18-19 marched past the British
Embassy in Peking within 34 hours,
organised and led by group leaders whose
shouted abuse was echoed by the mob
and broadcast over the official radio-
stations.
Some of the demonstrators were
dressed-up as Arabs, some carried
banners with notices saying “Get out of
Lebanon, Get out of Jordan.” It must
have looked very much like one of Mr.
Jim Healy’s major efforts when he and
the Waterside Workers steal the show in
-the trade-union procession in Sydney on
Six-hour Day.
The point of the incidents is that
neither in Moscow nor in Peking could
such outbursts have been voluntarily and
spontaneously carried-out. . They were
deliberate insults framed and staged by
the Russian and Chinese Governments
and connected with the sudden summon-
ing by both Governments of British
representatives to issue ultimatums to
them to cease their armed intervention —
or else. Peking summoned Mr. Duncan
Wilson, the British Charge d’Affaires,
at midnight on July 18 and warned, him
that the U.K. faced “grave consequences”
unless Chinese and Russian orders were
obeyed.
The fact that Khrushchev had been in
Peking for four days during the past
week without any suspicion of his move-
ments leaking to the outside world shows
how little the West knows of the plotting
and planning that goes on behind the
Iron Curtain.
In Lebanon a President, General
Chehab, has been elected, and is accept-
able to local rebels. The Lebanon posi-
tion has come to a showdown, and it will
be revealed within a few days what lies
behind it.
Khrushchev now has to demonstrate
what the weight of his influence is or
else lose face with the Arab world, and
especially with Nasser, who came back
from Moscow a few days ago shouting
Kremlin promises of violent help.
If he is bluffing, or if, after the past
few days, he merely hopes for a con-
ference at which he can bully his way
to victory, or if he feels that the Ameri-
cans will he moving out of Lebanon
anyhow following General Chehab’s elec-
tion and that by making enough noise
he can take the credit for ordering them
out, he is playing a perilous game.
He isn’t however, to be taken too
lightly. Somebody the other day dug-up
words which have been quoted often in
The Bulletin in the past.
They were uttered by Manuilsky, one
of Stalin’s right-hand men and a
rapporteur at the 1935 and 1939 Com-
intern conferences: He said in 1935 that
“war to the hilt between capitalism and
Communism was inevitable,”* and that
in “20 or 30 years’ time” the Soviet
Union would be strong enough to
attack.
He added:
To win we shall need the element of
surprise. The bourgeoisie will have to
he put to sleep. We shall -begin by-
launching the most spectacular peace move-
ment on record. Tliere will be electrify-
ing overtures and unheard-of concessions.
The capitalist countries, stupid and deca-
dent, will rejoice to co-operate in their
own destruction. They will jump at
another opportunity to be friends. As soon
as they drop their guard we shall smash
iuto them with clenched fists.
The utterer of these words was no -
secondary figure—he was a close col-
league of later Stalin’s
choice as the representative of the
Ukraine in the United Nations and
President of the Security Council a
decade ago.
What's the Hurry?
If the people of the shires threatened
by the Renshaw amalgamation plan for
the N.S.W. Central West thought that the
Minister’s talk of a permanent three-
man commission on local-government
boundaries meant they had been granted
a respite, they were sadly disillusioned
last week when he announced the
appointment of H. W. Dane as a one-
man corpmission.
Mr. Dane is chief-inspector of accounts
in the Local Government Department.
He is an efficient officer and has acted
as administrator of Leichhardt, Banks-
town and Bourke municipalities while
the councils in .those areas were sus-
pended. His ability and integrity are
not in question, but his appointment
follows the pattern to which the Shires
Association , has been 'objecting so
strongly—the practice of appointing one
officer of the department to draw-up a
plan for boundary-adjustments and then
_ appointing another officer to hear pro-
tests against the plan.
Mr. Renshaw says that in doing this
he is merely carrying-out the law. He
doesn’t add “as amended by the Labor
Government and as interpreted by me.”
It was Renshaw’s party that struck the
referendum clause out of the Local
Government Act. Even as amended, the
Act doesn’t require that a commissioner
appointed to conduct an inquiry, shall
be an officer of the Local Government
Department. But the commissioners
appointed by Local Government Minister
Renshaw invariably are!
It is less than six weeks since the
Minister made his proposal for a three-
man commission. True, the Shires
Association didn’t like his proposal, and
put forward of their own.
But in advancing his plan he was at
least tacitly admitting that the customary
pattern of a one-man commission needed
changing. Four days before his appoint-
ment of Mr. Dane he was still urging
his -three-man commission on the repre-
sentatives of the shires and municipal
councils. Why the sudden change of
front?
The shires had asked that all pending
boundary-changes should be deferred
until the permanent commission was
appointed. This seems a most reasonable
request, but as far as the Mitchell region
is concerned the , Minister apparently
can’t wait. Falling back on the law
again, he says that in the event of a
three-man commission not submitting a
unanimous report his own legal position
would not be clear. What a specious
argument this is! Parliament meets on'
August 20. Renshaw has the numbers
on his side and can amend the Local
Government Act to provide for his com-
mission and to clarify the legal con-
sequences of its reports. Why then is
he in such indecent haste to deal with
the Mitchell region on the old dis-
credited basis? Is he afraid that even
caucus may not approve the high-
handed tactics of the Renshaw Plan?
The Brick Belt
It is clear from the latest propaganda
of the protagonists (Heidelberg Council
and the Board of Works) of the move
to yield 150 acres of Melbourne’s green-
belt to the representatives of American
capital for profit that the project to
allow a £3-million housing-scheme on
the- rural Banyule estate is indefensible.
The Board of Works, which in recent
years has indicated that it is expertly
advised in public relations, has put out
a document under the signature of the
chairman, R. E. Trickey, which is most
persuasively written but quite uncon-
vincing ; and the Heidelberg Council,
where public relations obviously are
regarded as poppycock, has issued, after
a secret meeting, a statement by Town
Clerk Phillips. “The matter is out of
our hands;” he said darkly.
Trickey’s article is intended to beguile
Melburnians with the reminders that
Melbourne is the fastest-growing capital-
city in the nation, with a population
increasing by 50,000 a year, and destined
to reach 2| million within 16 years, in-
stead of in a.d. 2000, and that the
“necessity” to develop outside the Master
Plan has arrived now instead of in 1980.
The facts cited here, probably from
official and reasonably accurate sources,
must be admitted, but the inference that
the Board of Works has been taken by
surprise is quite untenable. The Master
Plan has been adopted officially only


within the last few years; there has been
no significant change in Melbourne’s
population-growth in these years, and
all the facts and figures now produced
have been available, or could have been
anticipated by intelligent planners, for
the past decade.
Mr. Trickey says that an explanatory
report was issued in conjunction with
the Master Plan in 1953 which pointed
out that it was not proposed to limit
Melbourne’s growth to 2\ million, and
that any extension beyond the urban
limits in the plan could then be con-
trolled and guided ; the method proposed
for controlling the uneconomic spread
of the city was the provision of a rural
zone surrounding the urban area and
extending to the metropolitan boundaries.
What Melburnians believed this
explanation to mean was that the rural
green-belt would remain sacrosanct and
that the growth of Melbourne would be
so controlled that it would not grow
into it,but on the outer circumference
of the green-belt. The chairman claims
that this can mean it was always intended
that the rural zone’s life was limited
until the board chose to “control” its
development.
It is also claimed that very little land
remains within the urban zone for low-
est housing ; yet it is less than a year
since the Board of Works was engaged
with other utilities in a protest against
the Melbourne sprawl, because of the
cost of extending services, and in support-
ing proposals for the erection of multi-
story flats in inner Melbourne.
Because of the weighty opposition to
the plan, the Government has asked for
a report on the project, particularly on
the extent to which it will encroach the
green-belt and mar the Yarra Valley,
and the alternatives to it. State Cabinet
also should consider the encouragement,
if any, given to the real-estate company’s
project by the Premier before he left
Melbourne for his holiday.
Dutch New Guinea
[From Canberra]
Closer watch on Australia’s northern
defences will result from the Dutch build-
up of troops and equipment in West New
Guinea following the Indonesian decision
to “liberate” the * territory and declare
“West Irian” a part of the Indonesian
Republic.
Several Government members in the
current session of Federal Parliament will
urge a closer concentration of military
forces in the north. These members are
worried over the latest Indonesian moves,
which threaten the political and military
stability of the whole of New Guinea.
The Government will be pressed, too,
by Labor deputy-leader A. A. Calwell
for a greater measure of defence-planning
for the island territory.
Calwell, who has always called for
greater efforts in the near-North, has just
completed his third post-war tour of
northern Australia and Papua-New
Guinea. Already he has condemned the
unrealistic view of some countries in the
United Nations which are demanding
self-government for the New Guinea trust
territory.
When Parliament meets he will go
further and ask the Government to build
more and better airstrips to take modern
jet-aircraft, use R.A.A.F. airfield-con-
struction units now in Australia and
increase the number of battalions of the
Pacific Island Regiment.
Calwell, and the Government’s own
defence critics, realise that Indonesian
threats to Dutch New Guinea are backed
by' recent deliveries of modern jet-
aircraft from Russia, which has been
readily able to supply whatever military
aids President Soekarno’s regime has
desired.
Some of these critics consider that the
Dutch action has been taken belatedly,
although a five-point programme for
Australian-Dutch co-operation on New
Guinea as a whole was announced when
Dutch Territories Minister Helders was
in Port Moresby early this year.
What was formerly the defence pro-
vince of the Royal Netherlands Navy
will in future come under direct Army
control with heavily equipped anti-
aircraft batteries supporting the terri-
tory’s defences.
The Democratic Labor party also has
been active on the North Australia de-
fence front and has urged the Dutch
Government to put West New Guinea
under U.N. trusteeship.
De Gaulle the Champion?
Critics who believed that de Gaulle
was doing nothing after having attained
power were disillusioned last week.
Actually de Gaulle, like almost every-
body now involved, seems to have little
regard or trust left for the United Nations,
which failed so miserably in the Lebanon
business. So he is opposed to the hold-
ing of a summit conference within the
limits of the Security Council, to which
the U.K. and U.S. feel that they should
be loyal.
He told Moscow that, within U.N.,
the-conference would have to include not
only the Security Council members and
India but the Arab States, and he was
the first man involved to call attention
to the anomaly of leaving out Persia
and Turkey—he did not mention Pakis-
tan irr such circumstances. Therefore he
thought a more restricted conference of
the Powers outside U.N. and held in
Europe would better meet the situation.
In taking this course he had an over-
all objective.— to assume the leadership
of Western Europe and speak for it at
the meeting; perhaps even to assume
the leadership of the whole West.
His line of thought was shown by the
fact that he sent an ambassador, M.
Couve de Murville, to Bonn and Rome
to consult the West German and Italian
Governments. He told Khrushchev that
he believed a summit conference of the
great Powers in an atmosphere of reason
and calm was inevitable before long, and
with this in view was already engaged
in consultations with other States “mostly
European” interested in the Middle East.
His position is being strengthened by
the fact that at one and the same time
the United States blundered in failing
to give West Germany more information
about its plans and ideas and by the
bullying Russian Note to the Adenauer
Government, lecturing it severely for its
support of the “Anglo-American adven-
ture” and for allowing its soil —whence
U.S. forces were flown to Adana —to be
used for “aggression” against Soviet
Russia.
Whilst the love of West Germany for
the Soviet Union has not been increased,
the West Germans share with France
the growing sense of injury against the
United States for its patronising dicta-
tion and assumption that the day of
Europe is done. They also share the
growing fear that any conference within
U.N. would be sabotaged by the large
infiltration of Red supporters which it
contains officially and otherwise or by
the use of the Russian veto on any sub-
stantive decision taken within the frame-
work of the Charter.
In the new economic community of
interests which exists in the western part
of the Continent unity of action there
is vital, and there would be some readi-
ness to trust de Gaulle as a champion
in the fray with Khrushchev.
De Gaulle appears to be the toughest
figure in sight, or, at least, the one who
in such a combat seems the toughest on
the Western side.
He has shown himself both firm and
adroit in the Algerian crisis. And he
has been just as adroit in the Middle
East business. With a sense of timing
he has announced his intention to launch
the scheme for the Constitution of the
Fifth Republic, which is to go to
plebiscite in a few weeks.
The essential points of the plan are
partly American, though likely to work-
out very differently in France; they are
also partly Napoleonic.
As in the U.S., the President, if the
scheme is approved (it looks as if it will
be), becomes the Chief Executive instead
of a mere figurehead, authorised to
appoint the Premier, dissolve the Par-
liament after consultation with the
Premier and Speaker of the Assembly.
This will remove the power of the
Assembly to» wreck Governments at will
through use of the confidence-vote. It
limits the sitting-time of Parliament to
5y months in the year, and it suspends
the session of Parliament due to open
early in October and leaves it to the
Government to convoke it when ready.
Most important of all, it abolishes the
proportional-representation system as a
fixed system, and leaves it to the Govern-
ment to determine electoral method.
The Constitution will be voted on in
the last days of September or early in
October. De Gaulle seems to be putting
himself into a position in which he must
become President.
He might conceivably emerge as the
strong man of ' Europe, especially if
President Eisenhower’s health should let
him down.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Caught helping himself to the con-
tents of somebody else’s car, the
well-dressed, smart young chap was
taken to the station for questioning.
“You say yolt’ve got a job,” said the
sergeant, “so why did you take these
things?” “Sickness in the family,”
mumbled the culprit. “You look healthy
enough: your wife's sick, is she?”
“Well,’’ drawled the smart young, chap,
“you could say she’s sick of me, and I’m
sick of her. That’s how it is, Sarge.”
—“Wusslean.”
❖ ❖ *?♦
“Ardoyne”: School authorities in Mesa
Valley, Calif., have ruled that every time
a. teacher becomes a father he may take
the next day off with full pay. Caught
napping, Australian uniomleaders will
not be satisfied with a mere eight hours
off at the employer’s expense. A week
while the little woman is in hospital,
another week to help-out when she comes
home, double pay for the period of leave,
de facto fathers to get the same privileges,
extended smoke-oh for the boys on the
job to wet the baby’s hair —maybe eVen
equal pay for equal work.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bix”: After an unexpected meeting
with an old friend I’m still trying to
puzzle-out his greeting: “My, you look
well —have you been sick lately?”
♦J* *2+
“R.R.”: The trainful of morning
workers pulled into the suburban plat-
form ; in the next box-carriage a tall,
foreign-looking man tugged furiously at
an obstinate door in obvious concern —
it was clear that he wanted to get out.
Other passengers came to the rescue, but
the door was immovable. Somedne ran
to the driver’s compartment ; the driver,
a burly fellow, joined the crowrl and,
placing one foot against the carriage wall,
pulled with all his might. Still nothing
happened. By this time the train was
10 minutes late. The station-master
came running from his end of the plat-
form, produced' a key and — presto, the
door was unlocked! The red-faced and
worried passenger, almost falling out of
the compartment in his haste to alight,
ran a few paces up the platform and,
rejoining the train, continued his journey
with a group of friends in the next
carriage.
+♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Mugga Way”: Dream on, dream on,
teenage Queen ... Cooktown, N.Q., has
surely developed an original line in the
beauty-competition in aid of the Cairns
aerial-ambulance appeal. The hon.
secretary of the Cooktown committee has
announced that wild-pig snouts and
dingo scalps will be accepted in lieu of
cash in support of Miss Margaret
McDonald, the Cooktown candidate.
Indeed, a £1 bounty is paid for a dingo
scalp and 2s. for a wild-pig snout, so
here’s where the beasts are doing a good
turn for beauty even if they don’t turn
into handsome princes.
“Kenyas”: A few days before school
sports-day something went wrong with
the starting-pistol. Matron was going
to town, so the sportsmaster asked her
if she’d mind leaving it at a depot to be
repaired. Pistol in her capacious bag,
she set off to the, city, but in the tram
she had to haul the weapon out to hunt
for a handkerchief. The next thing she
knew was that the burly chap opposite
had grabbed the pistol from her hand,
Toaring, “.You're not going to get away
with that, sister!” while a woman
shrieked, “It’s a hold-up!” and two
nervous passengers leaped off the moving
tram.
4r *t*
“Logos”: On the vagaries of our laws :
In South Brisbane on a Saturday after-
noon a worthy citizen who had had a
few beers in his own home with his wife
rushed to an accident which occurred
down the street, and had pulled two
people from the wreckage of the cars
when -a police-car arrived. The citizen
was promptly arrested for drunkenness
and taken to the City Watchhouse, where
after the customary four hours’ stay the
wife bailed him out.
*> *Z*
“Sevenelms”: To establish the bag-
pipes as a musical instrument (B.
23/7/’5B) a partisan Scot has drawn
attention to that stone-carving in St.
Giles Cathedral, Edinburgh, of an angel
with bagpipes skirling celestial music.
Rowena Farre in her Seal Morning
records that the Atlantic seal (Phoca
barbata) is not as musical as the common
seal (P.-witulina) which has been docu-
mented as playing the xylophone, trumpet
and bagpipes.
“For a start —duck is of."
CHOOK, CHOOK!
“Sydney Lord Mayor, Alderman Jensen,
told Sydney City Council it was lawful to
keep fowls in the city area.”
The chickens trip along the street,
Their little beaks go' “Tweet, tweet,
tweet";
Their broody mothers run amuck
At bargain-sales with “Cluck, cluck,
cluck!"
And in some offices I know
The gaudy roosters strut and crow,
Or, perched in silence, dream about
Stripping each other’s feathers out:
In this our Mayor sees nothing crook —
The city still is for the chook —
Where for, with confidence reborn,
l strew around my bag of corn.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM


Frankly a tourist, she was out to
get the most; she had ridden on
a jaunting-car and kissed the Blarney
Stone in Ireland, gone to Buckingham
Palace and seen the Coronation coach
and the stables, attended the ceremonies
of guard-changing and so on, but it was
after dining in an Italian restaurant in
Soho that she had her most chastening
experience. Coming out, she saw a
crowd of men gathered round a notice
in a window and, determined to be in
the know, shouldered her way to the
front. The notices were advertisements
of the charms of the sisterhood —essential
measurements, name, address: “Come to
me for the night of your life,” “The
biggest thrill on earth,” etc. She got out
of there so fast she reckoned they had
nothing better at Woomera. —“Sunray.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Becks”: “Muscatels —3s. 6d. a half-
pound,” said the notice in the fruit-shop.
It seemed rather a steep price for grapes,
even in midwinter. But it wasn’t the
price that was wrong ; it was what the
law calls “the description of the goods.”
“Mushrooms” was the word the New
Australian greengrocer had been search-
ing for. ,
❖ ❖ ❖
“Judee”: Edward Ward on “Planning
for Prosperity in Iraq” in “The Listener,”
published in London on May 1:
It is an exciting thing to go to Iraq
today. The moment you leave Baghdad
airport you have the impression things
are happening there....
A A. .A.
V V V
“Bender”: A questionnaire anony-
mously answered by boys of the New-
castle High School revealed that every
third 12- to 16-year-old was a regular
smoker. Some admitted to 80-100
cigarettes a week. They are starting no
earlier than we did in my day. The
only difference is that they, with a liberal
weekly allowance, have king-size, filter-
tip and cork-tip cigarettes and a variety
of ready-rubbed tobaccos, whereas we
had to serve our apprenticeship with tea
wrapped in newspaper, dry gum-tree
roots, dry grass and any butts that Dad
left lying around the house.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Glen Park”: Notice in a shop-
window : “This is a non-profit organisa-
tion. It was not meant to be, but that’s
the way it has turned out.”
*z*
“Fasdean”: Blondie and not-so-blonde
pal were sipping a quick cuppa in snack-
bar when Blondie drawled, “Going to
the dance with Alfie, love?” Pal looked
superior, “I’m no Ingrid Bergman. I’m
not through with Bill till next month.
Going on me pat.”
♦2* »2>
“Subby”: The Greek-Turkish friction
was evident in 1934. In July of that year
Royal Sovereign was sent to Famagusta
to show the flag. We landed an armed
battalion, nominally for battalion-drill
and route-marches. A target was anchored
a couple of hundred yards away from
the ship,' and each morning our Fairey 111
F. torpedo-bomber (predecessor to the
Swordfish) bombed it with great accuracy.
Only the ship’s company knew of the 21b.
charge, secured to the target each night,
which was exploded electrically by a
sailor with a good sense of timing
stationed on the quarterdeck.
“Go on! Circle round a bit before you fly away!”
“Doynest”: Under Victorian law pro-
hibiting unauthorised affixture of posters
to walls, etc., an offender must be caught
in the act. Even if the name of the
person responsible for the affixture of the
material is printed thereon he can dis-
claim liability, and the penalty is suffered
by the unlucky distributor. Which all
seems plain barmy: what a chaos our
streets would be in if an inspector had
to catch a driver in the act of leaving his
car in a prohibited place!
»!♦ »!♦ ♦>
“Ybsul”: Have just been awed by the
opulent appointments in a city bloke’s
office. The gleaming desk-surface
reminded me of a resourceful type who
in 1940 was appointed to a king-sized
engineering firm handling war jobs.
Given an ordinary sort of office in keep-
ing with his responsibilities, he forthwith
set about improvements. His first change
was to install, at the firm’s expense, a
truly regal desk, and fit it with intercom.,
dictaphone and other tycoonal trivia.
Came the boss, showing service v.i.p.s
over the plant. The Big Boy was im-
pressed by my friend’s luxury-desk:
“Jove, you have got something here!
Cost you much?” “Not at all, sir,” said
my friend, dodging down like a winged
duck; “know some people .. . materials
at wholesale cost—and got a cut on that
. . “By Heaven,” said the Big Boy,
“that’s management! Get the same
thing for me.” My friend was a bitter
man while paying-off the difference.
♦> «£♦
“J.J.A.”: Mother-of-four left her
howling children for a few minutes to
go and cut the morning wood. The next-
door neighbor's daughter remarked that
it was disgraceful that she, the mother of
four, had to cut her own morning wood.
Said the mother-of-four, raising her voice
to be heard above the screams and yells
of her offspring: “The only way I caa
get my morning wood cut is to have
another baby. And I’m not going to have
another baby just to get my morning
wood cut for a few months!”
❖ *z* *z*
“Bo”: The director of Sydney’s
Executive Training Centre, Derek Castle,
has brought back with him from the
U.S., where he attended an international
conference, a vision of the hospital of
the future. It will be circular, giving
hospitalisation a new angle. The patient
in the operating-theatre will be encased
completely in a plastic-bubble, which the
surgeon will also use as his gloves. The
highly susceptible surgeon whose one
thrill in an otherwise workaday job has
been when the vivacious and attractive
theatre-sister reefed the conventional
gloves off his mitts at the end of the op.
will probably take a dim view of this
“improvement.” But the bit I like best
is that the hospital-bed as we know it
now, lumps and all, will go. Instead,
patients will “float on compressed air.”
No doubt due provision will be made


against windows being left open too wide
in case, with a strong draught, a hernia-
case takes-off across the city like a magic
Oriental carpet. And will they feed the
elevated patient with a shanghai, like
they did the storied marathon buckjump-
rider? Possibly the patient who calls
for bottle or pan will have a screen of
solidified oxygen or something floated
up to put around him. But the greatest
hazard for the airborne patient will come
if he happens to cross verbal swords with
the lemon-scented sister who’s just had
her night’s leave cancelled —one glare
from her basilisk eye and both he and
his berth will be deflated!
“Kelvin”: In refusing a Chinese offer
of squeeze “Sevenelms” (B. 2/7/’5B) had
an experience similar to that of a newly
arrived policeman in the days when
Thursday Island was really Thirsty
Island. The new cop had been installed
about a week when an urbane Chinaman
called at the station and, with the
explanation, “Me pay taxee,” pushed a
sizeable* bundle of notes across the table.
When asked what kind of tax he wanted
to pay, Ah Chee smiled blandly as he
replied: “Sly-grog taxee!”
T was delighted to see Sydney's
A Lord Mayor Jensen advocating
a single-fare system for city transport.
I struck this method in Boston, U.S.A.,
in 1943. For a five-cent ticket one could
travel by tram anywhere in the city area,
changing trams if necessary. For 10
cents the traveller could leave the tram
and continue the journey by train.
Boston police-stations had about half-a-
dozen spare beds each. They were mainly
for servicemen. In one of these police
beds I awoke to coffee and toast served
by the night desk-sergeant: then I got
intn q i in.
mto a prowl-car for a lift back to
barracks. We were going along quietly
when the radio cast an urgent message
of a stolen car fleeing the area. The
cops whacked-on the pace automatically,
and my hair was standing on end before
they remembered me. “We’ll drop you
“Might as Well face it, Dorothy — We just cant agree on ANYTHING!"
at the railway,” one yelled. “Might be
some shooting!” I offered no argument
about leaving the car when they stopped
by the railway-station.—“ Dolphin.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Kinta”: My experience of delayed
letters (B. 16/7/’5B) concerns one posted
from Canberra to Melbourne on April
28 of this year, which reached its destina-
tion in June, after, a trip to London and
back. Adding insult to injury was the
bold print alongside “Victoria”: “Try
Australia.”
“Sunray”: She said: “One of the
girls at school is writing rude letters!”
Grandmother’s spine tingled. “Yes,”
continued the child, “and I know what
she wrote, too. Do you want to know?”
The assent was faint rather than enthusi-
astic, but it was enough. “She wrote ‘You
can spit at me and call me names but I
won’t care, so there!’ Isn’t she aw full"
“Tom Trout”: The long reach of the
law in the Old Dart is a bit complicated
by the number of arms it extends, so a
House of Commons select-committee
reports. And no wonder. In the small
area of England and Wales there are 126
independent police-forces!
+ * + +
*** v v
“Kinta”: Solitude for sale, as adver-
tised by an American journal:
Hope for Loving Hermits (semi-
gregarious species). The Island Inn wel-
comes B uests lovin s cliffs and sea > forest
and moor, peace and quiet. Ten miles at
sea , star ’ p for street 4 lightS) the wide
horizon beyond all desire. Advance
reservations necessary
Loving hermits who can be attracted by
horizons beyond all desire have obviously
exchanged their jugs of wine for lime-
juice.
“A.C.T.”: At Geneva, U.N.
Economic Commission officials for the
Far East staggered their European
counterparts by asking about West
Germany’s “white - slavery schools.”
Inquiry revealed that a German report
translated into English by the former
occupation authorities had not dealt with
schulen fur madchenhandel , which would
be “schools for trade in girls,” but merely
with handelsschulen fiir madchen, trade-
schools for girls, a rather different matter,
one hopes.
♦j+ *** *x*
“Tom Trout”: The Sheriff of Notting-
ham, a surgeon with a hand injured in
an accident a decade ago, recoiled from
the prospect of the hundreds of hand-
shakes expected from him at receptions ;
he designed a protective glove of glass-
fibre and plastic. Worn under an ordi-
nary white glove, and warmed by contact
with his skin, its presence is unsuspected
by even the most intimate hand-wringers.
NEW LANGUAGE OF LOVE
“The emotion of love has, biologically,
nothing to do with the heart, despite poets and
song-writers. It has, though, to do with the
nerve-ends.” —Medical Journal.
Can human heart be “torn with love’’
Be “east off like a worn-out glove,’’
Or from false love suffer a breaking?
Can heart for strong affection “yearn,”
Grow colder, or, conversely, “burn,”
Or suffer all the pangs of “aching”? '
Just don’t believe it! Love can’t rock
Your sturdily beating, shock-proof clock!
The specialists and g.p.s know it’s
Really a lot of ballyhoo —
A fallacy-acceptance due
To ignorant, unmedical poets!
That tender passion must reside
In vascular organ, side by side
With blood-cells, simply had to tally
With the ideas of disk-sale ads.
Propounded by the shrewd-head lads
Who operate in Tin Pan Alley.
But you, romantic swain, who've got
The idea your heart by Love’s been shot
To pieces, almost run its span, sir —
With a Jew guineas in your fist,
Go and consult a specialist:
Electro-cardiograph gives the answer!
The docs, say this without a blush :
The heart has nix to do with mush.
It wouldn’t think of wildly jumping
Whenever its owner might embrace
A “hank of hair” with lovely face.
It sticks, stolidly, to gore-pumping.
Romeos, forget inaccurate past!
Your lover’s talk you must re-cast
If medical truths you’d not be flaying.
All reference to ticker you must skip;
Say, if to love you must give lip,
Your nerve-ends at her feet, you’re
laying!
n.s.w.
S.W.K.


Meeting Henry in Mudgee
By H. P. ("Duke") TRITTON
IT was in 1912 I met Henry Lawson.
An old schoolmate of Henry’s,
“Curly” Jack O’Brien, and myself
had become friends —mainly, I think,
because we both wrote verses which no
editor thought good enough to publish.
Henry was on one of his infrequent
visits to Mudgee, and when Curly asked
would I like to meet him I didn’t need
any persuading.
We went up to the Miners Arms, then
kept by Jack Fitzsimmons, another
schoolmate of Henry’s. He took us into
a private room off the bar, and I was
introduced to the man 1 had been hoping
to meet ever since 1 had read and learnt
to recite his poems as a boy.
His handshake was firm, his manner
pleasant and friendly. As 1 would be
about 20 years younger than any of the
three I thought I might be a bit out of
place among these old mates, but right
from the start I was accepted a& an equal
and made to feel at ease.
TTenry was greatly interested when I
told him I had carried my swag on
the Hungerford track, and asked many
questions about people in Bourke and
other towns on that route. The trip to
Hungerford and back to Bourke through
Barringun and Engonnia was the only
time he had carried swag, with the excep-
tion of a short trip while in New Zealand.
When I asked him how he got so many
stories of the outback in a few months
on the track he laughed: “There is a
story in every man if you look for it.”
Jack Fitzsimmons and Curly Jack were
both good yarn-spinners, and there were
no long silences. Henry told a story
concerning “Old Man Bucholtz,” who
was the bogyman of all the kids of
Eurunderee. He told it with a wealth
of detail, but I can only give the main
points:
“I was playing on our side of the creek
when my mate suggested we hop over
and pinch some quinces from the
Bucholtz farm. I reckoned it was a good
idea and over we went. Not being satis-
fied to take the quinces we could reach,
or perhaps to show how brave we were,
we climbed a tree and were having a
great time imitating crows and curra-
wongs. When I saw Old Man Bucholtz
coming down the next row with his old
muzzle-loader shotgun in his hand I
think I fell out of the tree, ripping my
pants on the way down. I heard the
gun go off, and was sure I was shot.
1 kept running, wondering if it would
hurt much when Mum started digging
the buckshot out of my backside with
the penknife she had for taking thorns
out of my feet. I needn’t have worried.
I still had a few quinces in my shirt,
and my pants were torn. Mum, being
a woman who knew a lot about little
boys, looked at the quinces and the pants,
then reached for the strap.”
Henry paused for a moment, then went
on: “She laid it on pretty heavy, too.
The strange part of the affair was our
own quince-trees had a better crop than
the Bucholtz trees.”
I have never seen this story in print:
the Bucholtz family and the quinces have
been mentioned a couple of times.
YX/ E were talking of Henry s stories and
verses, and 1 said 1 thought “The
Loaded Dog was the most humorous
he had written. Curly Jack, who had
been with Henry when the “Dog” was
conceived, urged him to tell the story.
I give it as I remember it:
“Curly and I were doing a bit of
digging at Pipeclay near the Budgee pub,
and, not being on gold, were broke to
the wide. All our credit was cut-out and
we were not eating too well. Pipeclay
Creek had plenty of fish—tailer, bream
and jewfish—but they refused to bite.
Having some explosives we thought we
might blow a few up. Curly took charge
of operations. He primed a plug of
gelignite with cap and fuse, put it in
a jam-tin, then packed it tightly with
damp clay and stood it near the fire to
dry-out.
“There was a dog, a big half-grown
retriever type, who often used to visit
us looking for scraps, though God knows
we never had any to give him. But he
still looked on us as friends, and I
wouldn’t have been surprised had he
brought along a sheep now and then.
He was that kind of a dog.
“He was greatly interested in the bomb,
and examined it closely, even picking it
up. Curly had given the bomb a very
long fuse, having a theory that while it
was burning the bubbles would attract
the fish and cause them to gather round
and we would get a good catch. When
the dog picked it up and I saw the fuse
trailing on the ground near the fire the
possibilities of what could happen came
to rhy mind. And that is how The
Loaded Dog’ came to be written.”
He told me that he had done very little
gold-digging apart from “specking” on
the mullock-heaps and fossicking in the
creeks. His mining stories came from
yarning with the diggers at Log Paddock
when he was a boy. And, as “The Loaded
Dog” shows, it took very little to give
him for a good story,
T had heard of Henry as a very heavy
drinker, but in three hours we had
four glasses of beer for each man. He
sipped very slowly and was always the
last to finish. So I have no comments,
And his deafness? In those three
hours no one spoke above his usual
voice, yet he never asked for anything
said to be repeated. The next morning
1 met him in the street. This time there
were several men with him, and he was
cupping his hand to his ear and acting
in the manner of a very deaf person,
Then Mudgee’s leading drunk, dirty,
ragged and badly in need of a shave,
shambled past. One of the men said,
“That chap is a disgrace to the town,
He should be locked-up and given a
good wash.” He spoke in a low tone,
but Henry’s eyes flashed, and he snapped,
“There but for the grace of God goes
any bloody one of us.”
That was the only time I saw him
display any anger or heard him swear ;
but the incident made me very doubtful
of his deafness. I never met him again,
and the shortness of the time I was with
him does not qualify me to be too
definite on the subject. So I leave that
question to those people who knew him
over many years to answer.
HENRY’S FOREBEARS
Walter Stone, whose “Checklist of
Henry Lawson’s Contributions to The
Bulletin” has been a No. 1 aid to
Lawson researchers, includes an interest-
ing new item of Lawson lore in “Biblio-
News,” which he conducts for the Book
Collectors’ Society of Australia —the
following quote from a letter written to
him by Odd Bjorge, of Eckboskolen,
N orway:
One of Lawson’s relatives, still living in
Norway, told me a few things about his
(Lawson’s) Norwegian forebears which •
might be of interest. Per Larsen, Henry’s
grandfather, passed his exam, at the
Teacher’s College of Kristiansand and was
posted to Tromoj, where he met and mar-
ried Marthe Magrethe Holst Hertzberg
Diurhuus. About Per Larsen it is told that
he loved women, wine and song—and was
inclined to poetry —a fact that ought at
least to be of some moment. He was very
much used as a “bidding-welcome” man
(one who used to vi£it the houses asking
people to come to weddings, funerals, etc.).
He was also decorated for bravery; he got
Danebrogorden—the highest possible dis-
tinction in those days. It happened in
1809 during the Napoleonic Wars. A
British ship attacked Tromoj when Per
Larsen was the only young male left, the
others having been called-up. Well, Per
collected all the women and equipped them
with sticks and axes, instructing them to
make as much noise as possible. So the
British soldiers, on the point of invading,
thought the better of it when they saw what
they thought was a whole army lined-up
in the nearest wood. That’s how Per got
the Danebrog. When he got the Older,
his enemies (and he had some) very sourly
remarked that previously the custom had
been to put the villains on the cross, now
they put the cross on the villain. Per and
Marthe’s youngest son, Niels, was only 19
when he left Norway. He had fallen in
love with a young girl, but in returning
from one of his sea-trips he found that she
had been married to his brother Siler in
the meantime. He then solemnly swore
never to set foot in Norway again, a
promise he kept. He emigrated to Australia.
Bjorge’s interest in Lawson possibly
springs from his own visit south —he was
attached for some time to the Education
Department in Tasmania. He recently
completed a thesis on Henry.


POLITICAL POINTS
Cahill seems to have brought something
back from America after all, bless his
heart. B. O. Smith, chairman of A. E.
Goodwin, Ltd., returned to Sydney at
the weekend with news that two U.S.
engineering concerns would shortly set-up
plants in N. S. Wales to produce heavy
equipment in association with Goodwins ;
a third would “produce an article not so
far manufactured in Australia.”
Meanwhile, in America, Tom Playford
and Westralian Deputy Premier Tonkin
are reported to be running neck-and-neck
in a race to persuade the Dow Chemical
Co. to establish a large petrochemical
plant in their States. Tonkin’s strong
talking-point is that W.A. already has
the big Kwinana refinery with plenty of
industrial sites alongside it. Playford’s
Hallett’s Cove refinery is still in the
blueprint stage.
• •
France may be prepared to trust de
Gaulle with the powers his suggested
Constitution would give the French Presi-
dent, but would it risk trusting his suc-
cessors? The committee that is to report
on his proposals will probably search for
some safeguard such as a provision requir-
ing the periodical renewal of the presi-
dential powers by the National Assembly.
• •
Much is heard from the N.S.W. police
and the Road Safety Council about the
need to drive safely. But a case of inex-
plicable neglect of public safety by the
traffic authorities is to be found at the
intersection ,of Archer and William
streets, Chatswood. There is a “Halt”
sign in William Street on the Pacific
Highway side; but cars coming from
the east cross Archer Street with nothing
to warn them that they are entering
virtually a highway ; and their view is
obstructed on their left. Presumably the
traffic authorities consider a “Slow” sign
in Archer Street is enough. It isn’t, as the
shocking accident-record of the intersec-
tion shows. Local residents have a pile
of correspondence with the authorities on
the matter; but the additional “Halt”
sign in William Street East has never
been erected. Last Saturday, after a
collision, a car turned-over three times
and finished in a front-garden., That sort
of thing has been happening at the corner
every few months for a quarter of a
century. Near-by residents are develop-
ing a neurosis, apart from the injury and
death to accident-victims.
• •
G. E. Barnes, owner of Canning Downs
horsebreeding stud at Warwick (Q.),
won the Country-party endorsement for
Fadden’s seat, McPherson. Runner-up
in a field of 11 was C. G. C. Olive, a
Battle-for-Britain pilot who in 1946
founded the Service Party of Australia
and contested the Brisbane seat at the
Federal election.
• •
Davis Hughes, leader of the N. S.
Wales Country party, challenged the
Cahill Government to halt the move for
boundary-changes in the Central West
until after the State election and to make
a campaign issue of it. Local Government
Minister Renshaw declined, but that won’t
prevent the matter becoming an election
issue—and not only in the Central West.
Many other country districts are hostile
to the Renshaw policy on amalgamations,
and the Morton-Hughes joint promise to
appoint a committee to review past amal-
gamations will take a lot of answering
on the hustings.
• •
Former Queensland Premier Gair said
on Friday that the Queensland Labor
party would contest Bris-
bane, Capricornia, Daw-
son, Griffith, Herbert,
Kennedy and Leichhardt
at the Federal elections
and “probably” several
other seats. It would alsc
run a team of three for
the Senate, with Senator
Byrne as leader.
• •
Discussions on the
election of a new presi-
dent for Lebanon dis-
closed a peculiarity of
the Lebanese Constitu-
tion, designed to lessen
religious strife in the
country. It is required
that the president should
be a Maronite Christian,
the Prime Minister a
Sunni Moslem and the
Speaker a Shia Moslem.
Lebanon is unique
among Arab States in
having a Christian
majority. At the last
count the professed re-
ligions of the population
were: Christians, 672,388
(Maronites, 359,182;
Greek Orthodox,
123,219; Armenians,
77,497; Greek and
Roman Catholics, 73,447;
Protestants, 12,010);
Moslems, 477,488 (Sun-
nis, 253,020; Shiites,
224,468) and Druses,
79,719.
• •-
Senator Spooner,
Minister . for National
Development, returned
from Cape York Penin-
sula full of enthusiasm for the future of
Weipa bauxite. Queensland wasn’t quite
so enthusiastic about his hint that hydro-
electric power-stations might be de-
veloped in New Guinea and that the
bauxite might be processed there. Deputy
Premier Morris said in Rockhampton
that his Government was determined that
the processing would be done in Queens-
land.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: According to Social Ser-
vices Minister Hugh Roberton, his de-
partment pays widows’ pensions to nearly
10,000 deserted wives. The present cost
is more than £2,250,000, and a survey
made in Victoria showed that the average
age of wives at desertion was only 31.1
years. Most had two or three children
to support; some had eight. Average
age at marriage had been 22.3 years, and
the wives mostly claimed that their deser-
tion had been due to the husband’s
infidelity or drunkenness ; financial and
employment difficulties, or pregnancy.
More than one-third of the women and
a tenth of the men had been under 20 at
marriage. More than one-third of the
women appeared to have had extra-
marital conceptions and 8.3 per cent,
had illegitimate children.
"Liberty, equality and STABILITY —I hope!”


NOTICE TO W.A. READERS
W.A. postal-subscribers* copies of THE
BUbLEI IN are now being AIR-
FREIGHTED to Perth every Tuesday (day
of printing), then dispatched to addresses
by ordinary mail through Perth P.O. every
Wednesday morning (Sydney publishing-
day).
This service should result in Perth sub-
scribers receiving THE BULLETIN on
Wednesday afternoons, whilst subscribers
outside Perth will experience only the extra
delay normal for mails dispatched from
Perth to their districts.
Air-freight cost per copy is only 8d.,
compared with ~/2J when sent ordinary
airmail. As the cost of THE BULLETIN
is lid. per issue (on a one-year-subscrip-
tion basis), an air-freight copy will cost
only 1/7.
A SUBSCRIPTION - FORM IS PUB-
LISHED IN THIS AND EVERY ISSUE.
A Perth subscriber, already taking advan-
tage of this service, writes: “An excel-
lent investment.”
Khrushchev, speaking of the perfect
understanding between himself and
Nasser: “He understands me for what
I am and I understand him for what he
is.” Understanding is all right; the in-
teresting moment will arrive when one
of the pair starts to tell the other what
he is.
• •
The Macquarie-street talking-shop will
reopen for business on August 20 ; elec-
tion-bait on the agenda includes legisla-
tion for some kind of equal-pay and for
three-weeks’ annual leave for all em-
ployees under State awards.
« •
Decimal-coinage advocates were glad
to hear Menzies say he proposed soon
to confer with Sir Leslie Melville and
members of the Decimal Currency Coun-
cil. The council has been urging the
appointment of a committee of inquiry
to report on the desirability of Australia
going decimal.
• •
Melbourne magistrate Pat O’Connor
came-up with the decision that a fellow
at the wheel of a car which was being
towed wasn’t guilty of driving under the
influence because he wasn’t driving in
the legal sense. But he fined the bloke
driving the tow-truck £3O for driving
under the influence. The police inter-
cepted the pair as they turned round a
roundabout. It must have been an
exhilarating moment.
• •
Cahill is probably relieved at the let-
off given him by the electoral office’s
statement that it would be impracticable
to hold a referendum on abolition of the
Legislative Council before the State
election as it would necessitate reprinting
the old rolls. Joe now has plenty of
adherents to his view that abolition of
the Council is sound in (Labor) principle
but unwise at the moment, when Labor
holds a majority in the Upper House
and stands a good chance of losing con-
trol of the Assembly. When principle
clashes with expediency caucus doesn’t
even hear the sweet music of the distant
drum.
• •
Menzies’ reply to a press-conference
question whether the British Parliament's
decision to appoint life-peers would have
any effect in Australia was that it was
“always possible” and that he thought
“the powers existing at this end would
not exclude the power to recommend
for life-peerage.”
The power may exist, but there seems
little point or sense in exercising it.
Britain has introduced the system of life-
peers to strengthen the House of Lords.
No such justification could be pleaded
here.
• •
In addition to the three seats it now
holds—Murray (McEwen), Gippsland
(Bowden) and Mallee (Turnbull) —the
Victorian Country party will contest
three others at the Federal election,
McMillan (Hawtin endorsed), Wimmera
(King endorsed) and Indi, for which
MacHolten or H. H. Woodford will
probably be endorsed. The C.P.’s public-
relations boys are talking bravely about
growing support for the party in Vic-
toria. There’s been no voting evidence
of it in recent years, but if Bolte uses
the % electricity- and gas-authorities as
taxation mediums it may not be long
before there is.
• •
Back from a look-see tour of Victoria
and South Australia, N. S. Wales
Opposition-leader Morton is critical of
the Cahill Government’s neglect of decen-
tralisation in comparison with what he
saw in the two Liberal-governed States.
He claims that businessmen seek five
main factors as essential to setting-up
industries:
1. An assurance that their capital-invest-
ment and dividends will remain free
from Socialist control.
2. Adequate and cheap electric power and
water.
3. Sufficient low-cost, good-quality homes
for employees.
4. Reasonable transport rates.
5. A stable cost-structure, with wages
determined by proper tribunals and
free from political meddling.
He maintains that these five factors are
evident in Vic. and S.A., but . not in
N. S: Wales. Victoria, he says, has a
Ministry of Development to encourage
the establishment of industry in country
towns ; South Australia seeks-out factory-
sites, undertakes to supply power and
water to them and to provide permanent
housing.
Some figures quoted by Morton as
proof of the value of this policy:
N.S.W. Vic. S.A.
p.c. p.c. p.c.
Population-growth 1952-57 .. 8.5 14 15.6
Migration gain (per 1000) .. 7.2 11.4 14.1
Homes erected, 1957
• (per 10,000 of pop.) .. 64 80 86
If the Liberal-Country party combina-
tion wins the next State election it
intends to set-up a Ministry of Develop-
ment and Decentralisation.
• •
What is happening on Queensland’s
“Gold Coast”? Some reports say busi-
ness is still booming ; others declare that
the real-estate boys have agreed not to
display “To Let” signs because their
numbers would cause dismay, if not panic.
In Brisbane concern is being expressed
at suggestions that the State is losing
population, and official and unofficial
inquiries are being made to discover
possible causes and remedies.
• •
R. E. G. Cunningham, former Queens-
land sheep- and cattle-station manager,
who for the last four years has been in
Pakistan for the U.N. Food and Agricul-
ture Organisation, says Australia could
become the world’s major supplier of
meat to Asian and Arabian countries —
if Moslem labor were introduced for
the slaughtering of stock in conformity
with Moslem religious rites. He has sub-
mitted a scheme to the United Graziers’
Association aimed at exporting meat to
Asia, especially low-grade mutton, from
a co-operative works at Moree, N.S.W.
The Federal council of the association has
decided to investigate the possibilities of
the plan, which would involve permission
for only one or two Moslems from each
of the importing countries to enter Aus-
tralia. Cunningham claims that there are
in nearby Asian countries about 50-
million people with a meat-buying
capacity equal to that of the average
Australian.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Amid the recrimina-
tions in Canberra over the plan for large
houses for defence heads, little has been
said about the large number of public
servants buying their homes in Mel-
bourne who have applied for positions
on lower salaries so they will not have to
move to the national capital. They
don’t like the standard of the houses
they would go to there, or the reports
on the climate —although they would be
much more fortunate in amenities and
general set-up than the service pioneers
who first transferred to Canberra more
than 30 years ago.
• •
Israel has had a Cabinet crisis over the
definition of “Jew,” with two Ministers
and two Deputy Ministers resigning, all
of them members of the National Re-
ligious Party. It had been decided that
registration on identity-cards should in-
clude the word “Jewish” for any person
who declared in good faith that he was
a Jew and did not profess any other
religion. The Deputy Minister of Re-
ligious Affairs, Dr. Zorah Wahrhat'tig,
described the Cabinet’s action as a fate-
ful decision, “liable to destroy the Jewish
people,” since it made it possible for a
person to be a Jew by nationality and a
Christian by religion.
• •
Victorian Railways have warned Mil-
dura traders that concession-rates for
export dried-fruits, unseasoned hardwood
and superphosphate can’t continue unless
the railways get a fair share of the
return traffic ; a large amount of Mil-
dura traffic has gone to the road-hauliers
because they offer cheaper rates, but not,
of course, on such things as super-
phosphate. It’s a long day since Harold
Clapp'helped to build up Mildura and
the railways trade with such slogans as
“Children, Yes! And Grown Ups, Too
—Orange Juice is Good For You” and
“The Reason Why There’s Raisin Pie.”


PERSONAL ITEM!
Besides the D.C.L. mentioned in
B. 9/7/’5B, Sir Owen Dixon was also
awarded the honorary degree of Doctor
of Laws at Harvard University (U.S.A.).
The citation reads: “The career of. this
good judge has undoubtedly strengthened
justice and order in the world of common
law.” Well known in America, having
been Australian Minister in Washington
early in War II and also having received
the Harland Memorial Prize at Yale
three years ago, he is now back at his
home at Hawthorn, not far from Mel-
bourne University, where he graduated
as M.A. and LL.B.
• •
When last sighted, novelist Morris West
was headed for Hollywood, Universal
Pictures having bought the film-rights
of The Second Victory (B. 21/5/’5B).
West will prepare the script for filming.
• •
At present Australian High Commis-
sioner in Canada, W. R. Crocker,
appointed High Commissioner in India,
will probably go to New Delhi towards
the end of the year. He’s been there
before ; held the same post from 1952
to 1955. In between he’s sandwiched
useful diplomatic experience as Ambas-
sador to Indonesia and through his
Canadian job. Before joining the diplo-
matic service he was Professor of Inter-
national Relations at the Australian
National University.
• •
A regimental reunion took place in
The Bulletin office when T. St. B.
Wentworth-Brown, down from Leadville,
near Mudgee (N.S.W.), met “Don” (L.
Donovan) who has worked in the build-
ing for 28 years. Both had served in
the Queen’s Own Royal West Kent Regi-
ment (the old 50th). A third party could
talk about them as “the dirty Half-
Hundred” and get a smile from both old
soldiers, but call them the “gents of the
Kents” —as was done on one historic
occasion—and be prepared for fight.
Wentworth-Brown (better-known round
Mudgee as Tom) grew-up near Eden-
bridge, in Kent; was gazetted to the
regiment in 1918 ; served on the Rhine
and in India until 1924 ; then came to
Melbourne. He put all his money into
a play called “The Alarm Clock”; losing
the lot he went to work as a station-
hand at Monaro (N.S.W.), then in Moss
Vale and later out west. Eventually he
became overseer for E. and L. N. Hill
at Terlings, Moree. In 1939 he leased
a property at Cooma, and in 1946 bought
his present place at Leadville (Lawson
country), calling it Edenbridge.
Don has a tale to tell too ; but, as
Kipling said of his old soldiers, “That’s
another story.”
Thomas Turner Smith, retired farmer,
of Marton (N.Z.), has succeeded to a
baronetcy created in 1897 and first held
by his great-uncle, Thomas Smith, who
was Surgeon Extraordinary to Queen
Victoria and hon. Sergeant Surgeon to
Edward VII. Born in England 55 years
ago and educated there, the new baronet
arrived in Maoriland after the Kaiser’s
war and went on the land—the first of
his family, he says, not to have taken-up
doctoring as a profession.
SIR CHARLES LLOYD JONES,
chairman of directors of David Jones
Ltd., and self-styled “simple linen-draper,”
who died in Sydney after a full 80 years
in the commercial, artistic and cultural
life of the community. (As sketched for
The Bulletin by Frank Jessup in 1928.)
“R.R.D.” introduces a paratrooper:
Commanding the British paratroops in
Jordan, Brigadier T. C. H. Pearson, of the
Rifle Brigade, personifies the Greenjackets’
motto: Celer et andax. Taking to parachut-
ing in War 11, he dropped into France and
came back with a D. 5.0., then into Norway and
came back with a wife. 1 last met him in
Singapore, where he had taken to strategic
planning to earn his pay and to yacht-racing
in Dragons and Fireflies as relaxation. He
and his lovely Vikjng “crew” brought back,
all the trophies in these two classes.
Sunburnt and strongly built, Pearson is the
type you can always rely on to nail a rambling
planning-discussion down to earth with a few
pithy phrases which even the most long-
winded councillor couldn't object to, nor
ignore. He’s probably best seen at close
quarters, as I remember him bringing his
Firefly round the last buoy, leaning out to
trim his craft, and not giving one inch to
anyone, face set, intent on the race. Not
the sort of bloke anyone would play tricks
with, but one you'd always be glad to have
on your flank in a tricky corner.
• •
When Charles Harvey (Dick) Marson
died in Perth recently, friends sorting his
belongings in the room he had rented
found papers and decorations which
proved that he had won M.C., D.C.M.,
M.S.M. and Croix de Guerre and had
been twice mentioned in dispatches.
His mates at the blacksmith’s shop he
worked at in James Street, Perth, knew
he had served in two wars, but had never
heard of his decorations. “A quiet man
and a good worker,” they called him.
He had come from England—born on
Christmas Day, 1884, at Scampston, in
Yorkshire. He left no known relatives.
• •
Roland Foster, Sydney’s veteran sing-
ing-teacher, has just celebrated his 80th
birthday, and still going strong. Born in
Ireland, he received his musical and
dramatic training at the Hampstead Con-
servatoire and the Benson School of
Dramatic Art, then became a Fellow of
London's Guildhall School of Music and
later an honorary member of the Society
of English Singers. Before coming here,
in 1913, with Dame Clara Butt and
Kennerley Rumford he had sung in pub-
lic for some years in Britain and had
taught singing there.
Appointed a professor at the N.S.W.
State Conservatorium in 1915, he has
taught at that institution for 43 years and
has spent his spare time adjudicating for
the principal Australian and N.Z.
eisteddfods and examining—as organiser
of the Conservatorium Opera School,
president of the N.S.W. Music Week
(1932-1934) and founder and honorary-
director of the City of Sydney Eisteddfod
(1933-36): he’s still a council-member.
For the past seven years president of
Sydney’s Royal Philharmonic Society, he
has written three books (one an auto-
biography).
• •
G. W. Mcllroy, of Gumbardo (Q.),
enters on his second term as Graziers’
Federal Council president. At the
annual convention, held at Alice Springs,
T. M. Scott (president of the Graziers’
Association, N.S.W.) and W. J. R. Wilson
(president in Victoria) were elected vice-
presidents.
• •
“C.A.A.”: Success in getting the prefix
“Royal” for Melbourne’s Botanic Gardens
(the first in Australasia to gain the honor)
can De largely attributed to director
R. T. M. Pescott, who has all the zeal
of his zealous forerunners. A high
standard of layout and horticulture is
required for the Royal award. Mel-
bourne's Gardens are regarded as one
of the three best in the world. The
others are Kew (London) and Rio De
Janeiro, each a leader within its own field
—Melbourne in landscaping, Kew in
glasshouses and conservatories, and Rio
in its tropical collection.
• •
Born and educated in Sydney (graduat-
ing with honors at the University in
1916), N. A. Esserman spent the years
during and after World War I working
at the Woolwich Arsenal (Eng.). Re-
turning to Australia, he joined the Com-
monwealth Defence Department; in
1929 became senior physicist in the


Munitions Supply Laboratories at Mari-
byrnong (Vic.); in 1938 became super-
intendent, and in 1939 was appointed
senior officer in charge of the metrology
section at the National Standards
Laboratory, Sydney. War II brought
him experience with munitions produc-
tion and widened his knowledge of
metrology. He became chief of the
C.5.1.R.0. Division of Metrology ; and
now, while still holding that appoint-
ment, he has become the first director
of the C.5.1.R.0. National Standards
Laboratory.
• •
Calling it a day after 31 years with
Vacuum Oil, Perth construction-engineer
George Norton pioneered Westralian
bulk-fuel installations, and in 1937 be-
came chairman of boards constructing
the first diesel-electric rail-cars for W.A.
Government Railways. In 1941-42 he
controlled, for the Commonwealth, the
construction of four large aircraft-fuel
depots at Northam, Merredin, Narrogin
and Kalgoorlie. He holds an Engineering
degree from the Westralian University,
was a member of the Uni’s Senate for 12
years and Warden of Convocation. Keen
on motor-cycling, he won the 150-miles
T.T. motor-cycle race over the Perth-
York-Northam-Toodyay-Perth course in
1919, at that time a rocky and dangerous
road.
• •
Les Such (sketched herewith), whose
drawings and occasional articles have
adorned The Bulletin for more than 20
years (man and boy) is doing a trip on
a slow boat to Nippon—the tug Cambrian
Salvor, towing two destroyers, Bataan
and Quality. When the captain asked
him hopefully if he had any medical
knowledge, Les replied: “None, but I
once splinted a broken leg, sewed-up a
man’s finger, which he never used again,
and treated another man’s foot for snake-
VOYAGER
bite with a cane-knife and Condy’s!”
The crew is reported to be in good
health, so far.
• •
Desmond Collings-Power, who wants
Government approval of a scheme for
building 2000 flats almost in central
Melbourne, has adopted the Yarra city
as the centre of his real-estate operations,
though he still keeps his ocean-racing
yacht, Josephine, at Pittwater (N.S.W.).
Now 38, he was in the R.A.A.F. in
the war, grounded by the disability which
had enforced an operation performed by
Professor Sir Harold Dew on him when
he was 12—he was probably the first boy
to live after such an operation. Sir
Harold Dew is now chairman of the
proprietary company which proposes to
build the flats.
After the war Collings-Power ran
petrol-stations in Sydney—in Palmer
Street, near King’s Cross, and at Manly.
His sport interest is boxing, because, he
says, his disability kept him out of the
ring as a youth and sharpened his
interest; so he arrived in Melbourne as
a boxing official for the Olympic Games
and decided it was the place for a real-
estate operator with ambitious ideas.
• •
In the P.M.G.’s Stores and Contracts
branch from 1920 till he retired the other
day as its director, James Joseph
McKenna leaves there his signature on
more than £2O-million-worth of con-
tracts, and stores worth only a few million
less. From time to time the P.M.G.
made loans of his services—he was three
years with the Royal Commission on
Wheat and was with the Supply Depart-
ment in Sydney and Melbourne during
the war. He aims to concentrate his
reading on something more entertaining
than million-pound contracts, with Jane
Austen, Shaw, Strachey and Trollope his
first choice.
• •
Born as Casino (N.S.W.) in 1910,
Raymond Edgar Purves (pictured above)
specialised as a cost-accountant and in
management-efficiency. At 32 he be-
came managing-director of Austral
Bronze Co. (in the Collins House
group). Then in 1948 he went to Clyde
Engineering, Sydney. Building it up and
trying to cushion the effect of the “lows”
in the Australian heavy-engineering field,
he formed Clyde Industries, Ltd., of
which he is now chairman and managing-
director. The subsidiaries of Clyde In-
dustries include Martin and King In-
dustries (Vic.), Apac Industries (S.A.),
and Westeels Industries (N.S.W.), among
other strategic affiliations. He has been
instrumental in establishing vital
manufacturing tie-ups with diesel-loco-
motive, fork-lift truck and other big U.S.
interests.
Purves is also chairman and managing-
director of Fruehauf Trailers (A/asia)
and of Yale and Towne Manufacturing
Co., deputy-chairman of Volkswagen
(A/asia) and chairman of Fairey Aviation
(Australasia).
In between all this he’s had time to
publish Standard Hourly Cost-rates for
VENTURER
the N.S.W. Master-printers and Allied
Trades Association, is F.C.I.A. (Aust.)
and an underwriting-member of Lloyds.
Recently back from a trip to New York,
he’s off again to Hong Kong this week.
* •
Into the Silence:
At Calen (Q.), at 103, Robert (“Pop”) Wales,
leaving 91 descendants and believed to have
been the oldest Buffalo Lodge member in the
world.
In Adelaide, at 93, James Quinlan, well-
known blood-horse breeder. Formerly asso-
ciated with S. Ralli and Werocata station in
breeding remounts for the Indian Army.
In Adelaide, at 72, George Lewis, formerly
manager of the Minlaton (S.A.) branch of
Goldsbrough, Mort. A keen amateur rider
(when secretary of the Iron Knob races, he
once rode every winner at a meeting), he
served with the 9th Light Horse in War I.
In Perth, Mrs. Mary Ann Bottrell, member
of the Salvation Army since she was 12. Last
May 29 she walked up the steps of the Salva-
tion Army Perth Fortress to attend the party
there for her 100th birthday.
At 27, in an accident in a motor-cycle race
in France, Keith Campbell, winner in 1957
of the Australian and world titles in the
500-c.c. class, as well as the world 350-c.c.
championship.
At Newcastle (N.S.W.), at 45, Herb Narvo,
one of the greatest of Rugby League second-
row forwards, a star of the 1937-38 Kangaroos
who toured England and France. A boxer, too,
winning the Australian heavyweight title in
1943.
In Perth, at 68, John Allister Ewing, who
helped to make important surveys in W.A.,
including that for the Trans-Australian railway.
He patented an instrument designed to speed-
up the taking of contour surveys and also
invented a sun-compass which aided field-
gunners in ranging on moving targets, and
which was taken-up by the British Army during
the KaiseCs war and later used in Arctic and
Antarctic flights. The son of former Westralian
Cabinet Minister John Ewing, he was a
nephew of Thomas Ewing, one-time Australian
Minister for Defence, and also of Norman
Ewing, former judge of the Supreme Court.
In France with the old sth Pioneer Bn., A.1.F.,
and also served in War 11.


ABORIGINALITIES
ONE BEACHCOMBER TO ANOTHER
TO “SNOW,” FROM “IRISH”
The most experienced active practitioner on our northern coasts
writes to a retired contemporary of his nicely-payable work off the
beaches and the marine wealth of the North. Signing himself “Irish”
and writing to “Snow,” he asks what’s wrong with other,- younger
Australians that they are not up there hunting a share of this wealth.
“Snow” here interpolates explanations (in brackets) as required.
Having neither written to nor heard
from you since we all lit-out from
Darwin after the blitz, I’m taking
a chance you still live in the same
place and am dropping you a short post-
war history of the North, telling you
of all the decent blokes—and the
numerous buzzards—we both know up
here. As always, few of the former have
managed to hang on to their cash, while
the latter have clung to their own and
everybody else’s they’ve got their hands
on. Afraid I must now belong among
them, for I’ve salted away quite a lot
“Vll to base —no sign of survivors—forced to ditch plane—
position unknown ...”
of the root of ail evil, of which I’ll tell
you later.
Was anchored in the Bay when the
bombs started dropping. Left the boat
with three tons of trepang (sea-slug)
aboard her; got ashore as fast as I
could, and joined the mob heading south.
Reached Fremantle with a hundred-quid
in my pocket and, knowing it wouldn’t
last long, immediately got a job on the
wharf loading wheat. At the end of a
month wondered why wharfies didn’t
strike more often. Quit, and got a job
on a Yankee freighter. Pay, tucker and
conditions all good. Stayed in her until
the end of the war.
Around the S.-W. Pacific operational
area until the end of 1943, with two trips
to Sydney and Melbourne—both in
winter. Nearly died of the cold,
From there to the North Atlantic run.
On one trip got a chance to slip over to
Ireland to see my old people—still well
and happy raising pigs and praties on
the old farm. Didn’t know where the
ship was bound for next or I’d have
stayed there.
Back at Liverpool, founds we were on
the Murmansk run —plain ’hell. Ice a
foot thick on everything above the water-
line. All along the Norwegian coast and
around the corner into the White Sea
two or three air-raids a day and sub.-
attacks every night. They got one-third
of the ships in the convoy.
I was just frozen stiff all the time and
couldn’t work. Luckily for me a greaser
broke his leg, and being the most useless
deckhand I got his job in the engine-
room—and didn’t leave it until we got
back to Liverpool.
Tn New York loading for Manila when
the Japs surrendered. On arrival
there, talked the skipper into giving me
my discharge. He paid me off and helped
me wangle a free air-passage back to
good old Darwin. Arrived there with
nearly three years’ pay in good Yankee
dollars.
My old boat was on the beach—not
worth two-bob. Managed to buy a first-
class 20-ton ketch with Yankee marine
diesel-engine in her. Loafed around for
a couple of months, mostly taking troops
for runs along the coast. The boys
fitted me out with a fridge, radio and
electric-fans ; wired the boat for electric-
light, put in storage-batteries, and told
me how to look after ’em. They also
put enough running-gear and canvas
aboard to last a couple of years. When
everything was fixed she was a miniature
luxury-liner. I wouldn’t have swapped
jobs—or accommodation —with Churchill
or Joe Stalin.
Guessed post-war prices would sky-
rocket, so ran across to Koepang,
picked up a crew, and set out to work
the offshore reefs (Ashmore Shoal, Scott’s
and'Seringapatam Reefs, and the Rowley
Shoals —a chain of coral atolls running
parallel to the W.A. coast about 150
miles offshore).
Trepang and trochus (shell) lying so
thick you couldn’t walk on the reefs
without treading on ’em. For 10 years
until the end of 1955 stuck to the reefs
every South-east (trade-wind season,
May-October), and was in and out of
Koepang every month with a full load.
During the Nor’-west (monsoon period,
November-April) used to run up round
Borneo shark-fishing for fins and skins,
and croc.- and python-shooting up the
rivers.
Never any shortage of labor on these
trips. Python’s the Torajas’ (a Borneo
tribe) favorite meat. After skinning
’em the boys eat as much as they want,
and salt-down and smoke the rest to
take back to their villages. I had more
volunteers than I could take each trip.
They’re first-class on the rivers. Paddle
a canoe noiselessly and run right up to
crocs, on the mudbanks without disturb-
ing ’em, so you can shoot from about
syds.—one shot, one croc. —dead on the
mud and ready for skinning on the spot.
There’s a python—sometimes two or
three —in nearly every big tree along
the rivers and creeks. They’re very hard
to see, as their coloring matches the bark
and leaves, and they usually lie per-
fectly still, coiled in the forks or round


"THANK HEAVEN THAT'S FIXED!"


the lower branches. You have to shoot
’em through the head to avoid splitting
the skin.
On spotting one, a boy climbs the tree
and pokes it with a long bamboo. As
soon as it lifts its head I’d shoot. The
boy then pushes him out of the fork or
uncoils him from around the branch
and drops him to the ground. Very often
the boy climbing to poke the one you’ve
seen runs into one or two you haven’t.
You’ve got to shoot quick as soon- as
they move their heads to stop them
fastening on to the boy— not dangerous,
but darned painful. Usually got five or
six a day and two or three crocs.
In the old days you couldn’t give skins
away. Now you can sell everything that
looks like one. Even the common old
sea-snakes’ skins are worth five-bob each.
Never waste any time looking for them,
but it’s a poor day when you don t pick
up 20 or 30 in a day’s sail. Never had
to worry about curing my skins to get
higher prices—just salted them down as
soon as I got them, and sold them all
in Macassar. Average prices—shark,
£2 10s.; crocs., £7 or £8 ; pythons a fiver.
Believe it or not, Snow, I . saved an
average of a hundred-quid a week
over the whole of the 10 years and I
spent plenty. Had three round-trips
Soerabaya, Singapore, Hong Kong,
Manila, Macassar, and back to Koepang.
In Manila I used to change all my cash
into U.S. dollars—l’ve got a hundred-
thousand of ’em deposited in a Yankee
bank there now, and still have a thousand-
odd quid ■ in local currency for carry-on
expenses.
Old Fong Lee (a Chinese buyer of all
types of island produce) wishes to be
remembered to you. He reckons I’ve
got enough cash salted away to see me
through this world and halfway round
the next. He’s promised to burn £lO,OOO
of Chinese funeral-money on my grave
to enable me to complete the passage if
I’ll do the same for him if he goes first.
(To be continued next week)
TThe human population of Queens-
A land are proud of their new diesel-
electric locomotives and air-conditioned
trains, especially as they may eventually
p U fl the railways out of the red. The
experts assure us that they are sweeping
a u records and opposition before them,
j am not an expert, but as a driver of
the diesels I know that they are sweeping
our w jid birds before them, also. The
birds are still accustomed to the old
steam locomotive, whose knocks and
bangs gave plenty of warning of its
approach, so that they could peck at
spilled sorghum-seeds up to the last
minute and still make a clean getaway.
But the high speeds and the minimum
noise on shut-offs and around sharp
curves of diesel-electrics make them
deadly. On my last trip I counted 50
birds that went to a gory death under
the wheels. I would like to see a high-
frequency warning installed on the diesels
which would give the birds a fair. go.
They are certainly deaf to the present
hooters. —“Scotty.”
* * * *
“Ex Vee”: Friend from the far north-
west who had shopped by mail for years
at long last came to Sydney and looked
forward to a real shopping-spree “over
the counter.” After a couple of hours
she returned to her hotel defeated, wrote
out her order, and sent it in by mail.
»: * * *
“Laetitia”: A ukase against • Kanaka
labor in Torres Straits m.-0.-p. fleets
brought happier results than followed
similar moves in Australia. Those who
elected to stay were settled, under the
auspices of the London Missionary
Society, at St. Paul’s, on Moa Island,
about 30 miles north of Thursday Island.
Here the expatriates intermarried with
the local Torres Straits Island natives.
The result has been a superb racial ad-
mixture. The menfolk are fine physical
specimens, splendid seamen and agricul-
turalists. The coihmunity has produced
a sizeable quota of fully-ordained Angli-
can Clerks in Holy Orders-
“Agricola”: Although the pig’s rind
is proof against a snake’s fangs, Dennis
has a couple of vulnerable spots —the legs
and behind the ears, where the skin is
soft. I have seen pigs die within 20
minutes after being bitten, and many
.bushmen claim they keel over with snake-
bite quicker than any other animal.
Pigsties are favorite haunts of snakes.
The remnants of milk in the troughs
attract them, and the loose boards and
rough flooring provide them with cover.
Another fallacy is that pigs bitten by
snakes turn blue after they die. There
are many causes for cyanosis, but snake-
bite isn’t one of them. Still, when a pig
dies mysteriously it's always a way out
to blame a snake.
* * * *
“Dear Bill”: Met an old prospector
on the west coast of Tassy who each
morning and evening would place a
saucer of milk near the door of his hut
to encourage a couple of tiger snakes,
“because,” he explained, “they keep the
rats and mice down.”
* * * *
“T.K.”: The fruit-eating currawong,
which in Queensland’s orchard areas has
a bounty on its head, is not always the
villain of the piece. Recently some
banana plantations were invaded by a
plague ofv small caterpillars, which were
eating the leaves as well as the skins
of the fruit. As if at a given signal
flocks of currawongs arrived and clear.ed-
up the invaders
FUNNEL IN THE TUNNEL
“There's a funnel in the tunnel,"
Said the ganger with a yell; ■
“So put the ‘Casey’ in reverse,
And go like flamin’ hell.
Open up the throttle
And bore her down the straight.
We might make Suicide Bend, lads,
Or Arthur Davey’s gate.
“There’s a funnel in the tunnel:
It ain’t no flamin’ joke
When the tunnel’s full of funnel,
And the funnel’s full of smoke.
Never mind the roll an’ rock,
Just keep her on the track;
For you gotter go like Tulloch
When a funnel’s in your back."
Bob Morris cleaning out his bar,
He thought he heard a jet,
But when he saw the Casey Jones—
“lt’s the fastest I’ve seen yet.
What’s wrong with them, the silly cows,
They'll crash", I’ll eat me hat."
But a funnel in the cutting
Made him drop the flamin’ mat.
They reached the ganger’s shed at last
With only feet to spare
And tipped the Casey upside-down
And left her lying there.
Now all the gangs they sing this song,
From Service ton to Toke:
“There’s a funnel in the tunnel,
There’s a tunnel full of funnel,
And the funnel’s full of smoke.”
VICTORIA.
J. M. DUNN.


TXere in* Lae (N.G.) not a great
number of table mushrooms flourish,
but the ordinary toadstools grow
in profusion. They seem to prefer
old filled-in bomb-craters, and grow in
a circle on the outer edge. On the air-
strips, in gardens and parks and the golf-
course can be seen dozens of circles of
toadstools, all marking old bomb-holes,
although the ground has been graded and
grassed for several years.—“Akwitann.”
* * * *.
“B-herd”: About discussions here on
red annoying bees —they simply don’t see
the color. To them a red flower is
some greyish hue. Nature apparently
goes along with the bees, too, for there
are few nectar-flowers with the tint. 1
can recall but one in the eucalypt family
on short notice: the mugga or red iron-
bark. Practically all the nectar-bearing
flowers are of a creamy to white shading.
It may have something to do with spot-
ting, for a tree in bloom stands out like
a sign, and although a bee has an amazing
gift for sniffing out sweet stuff, it depends
on vision at the outset.
• * * *
“Myall”: Seven of the rare brush-
tailed rats (Dasyuroides byrnei) were
recently flown from Birdsville to the
Queensland Museum—only 15 of these
tiny marsupial mammals have been
recorded since white settlement began.
The first was discovered in 1895, and the
name of the discoverer —R. Byrne, of
Charlotte Waters—was incorporated into
the animal’s official monicker. Das has
a body only 6in. long. Half of the sin.
tail is almost bare, the other half being
covered with black hair about an inch
long, giving the appearance of a bottle-
brush. The body is brownish-grey. The
animal, peculiar to Australia, inhabits
the sand-and-gibber country of the cen-
tral interior, camping in burrows by day,
and venturing out at dusk to forage. It
can move with amazing speed and can
jump feet off the ground.
* * * «
“Ex Vee”: “Bo’s” roost-robber (B.
9/7/’5B) must have been a newchum.
To rob a hen-roost of a number of fowls
would take a long time by his method,
and one wobble of the stick would cause
a flutter and a squawk from Mrs. Hen.
“Bo” doesn’t say how far the. chook had
to be carried. When enterprising dressed-
poultry dealers got down on my flock,
they killed, plucked, and dressed 50
pullets on the premises (leaving the mess
for me to clean-up) and no sound was
heard by any of the neighbors. They
used the old sulphur method, not even
bothering to bring their own tin, but
borrowing one of mine. It was rubbing
it in a bit, but the unkindest cut was
leaving the one lone egg amidst the heap
of feathers.
* * * *
“G. 8.”: On six miles of 2ft.-gauge track
the Tullah private railway in Tasmania
runs daily the smallest freight and
passenger train in the Commonwealth.
Tullah is absolutely dependent on it for
transport, because the rugged nature of
the country has prevented a road being
built. Any vehicle to be found in the
small settlement has been brought in by
the railway. The line started with two
steam, locomotives in 1908, but for many
years it has been worked with one—named .
“Wee Georgie Wood” after the popular
English comedian of that time. No doubt
the 50-year-old loco, will be good for
many years to come.
“Never mind the trinkets—Write us a'cheque.”
Pseudechis adds a few while the
snake-season’s open:
The diamond-backed rattlesnake is probably
the biggest venomous snake in the world, if
you take it on bulk. It grows to over Bft. and
is very heavily built. An Bft. specimen would
probably weigh as much as 201 b. The longest
venomous snake in the world is the king
cobra of Asia, which has been recorded as
reaching a length of almost 18ft. However, a
king cobra of this length would probably not
exceed 181 b. The next-longest venomous snake
.is the bushmaster of South America, which
grows, though rarely, to a length of 12ft.
The taipan of Queensland would rate third,
growing to over 10ft. Of the large non-
venomous snakes, the longest is the regal python
of Eastern Asia, which has • been recorded as
growing to 33ft; This is followed in size by
the anaconda of South America, which may
grow as long as 25ft., but is a much heavier
snake than the regal python. On the score
of bulk rather than length the American
continents can claim to have both the biggest
venomous and non-venomous species, but for
length alone the American snakes are greatly
exceeded by species from other continents.
* * * *
“Harbel”: Probably an insurance-
agent, he got out of a car and shot up
at the brickie going flat-out on the
scaffold: “Hey, you! Is the builder on
the job?” It was an abrupt question, and
it got an abrupt answer: “Yes.” The go-
getter glared, then strode around to where
he sighted a bloke in clean overalls stand-
ing with hands in his pockets. “Excuse
me, sir—you are the builder?” The
bloke grinned: “Me? Cripes, no. I’m a
laborer. That bloke on the scaffold’s the
builder.” The visitor headed back to his
car —one chap who had learned that (a)
you can’t go by appearances, on a job;
(b) on a small job the boss is the bloke
working a little bit harder than anyone
else—if he’s not, then it’s safe to bet he
won’t be employing men much longer.
GOOD WOOD
a i RED recently on The Bulletin’s
2* “Service Page” was that curiouslv
persistent fallacy that winter-felled trees
produce better timber than summer-
felled ones. Australia, thanks to the
C.S.LR.O., has led the world since 1930
in timber-seasoning, and in accomplish-
ing that the backroom boys put the skids
under a few old-wives’ tales, like those
about trees with “sap-up” or “sap-down”
that the Old World dendrologists had
cluttered us with.
Whether it’s a gidgee north-west of
Bourke or a beech south-east of Stoke
Poges, a tree’s sap-content is the same
on June 22 as on December 22.
Obviously, in the deciduous beech there
is in summer, by osmosis, more sap
movement than in winter ; but it’s still
futile for axemen to try to sneak up on
trees at any time to catch them unawares
with their saps down. The only advan-
tage of winter-felling is when logging is
delayed and logs do not split by exposure
to summer sun.
Basically, no timber is efficiently
seasoned in the log, and the best wood
converts from boles that are standing
today and through the sawmill to-
morrow. A fallacy is expressed when
someone commends a piece of wood
as magnificently seasoned because it is
50 years old. It acquired all the season-
ing it ever could within two years, and
the kiln-drying technicians would have
done it better in two weeks.
We still hear that kiln-seasoning takes
all the “nachur” out of the wood. Fact
is that the kiln-drying experts foqnd that
Nature was too harsh in her methods
of seasoning wood, and that the Dame’s
carefree “on-again off-again” techniques
warranted improvement.
Finally, don’t eulogise wood as “bone-
dry.” The moisture-content of any old
bone is 17 per cent, and the desirable
moisture for joinery- wood is 12 per cent.
SEVENELMS


Business, Robbery, Etc.
THE GOLLIN FLOAT
■fXfiTH a world-wide business
growing turnover,
and the need for increased
liquidity becoming apparent
as its empire expands, Gollin
and Co., Ltd., is “going
public” through the 'forma-
tion of a holding-co. and the
issue of ord. shares and notes
to clients of lan. Potter and
Co., ’ underwriters of both
issues.
The issues have been
promptly oversubscribed.
Gollin and Co. began in
Adelaide in 1845, spread to
Melbourne in 1888, to Sydney
in 1896, and to N.Z. before
the end of the century. Since
1922 N.Z. Loan and .Mercan-
tile has held a majority interest
in the incorporated business,
but the present issue of shares
to the public will apparently
alter its predominating posi-
tion somewhat.
Today Gollin and Co., Ltd,,
has a head-office in Melbourne,
with branches in Sydney,
Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and
Townsville; Wellington, Auck-
land, Christchurch and Dune-
din ; London, Bristol and
Liverpool ; and there is a N.G.
representative at Port Moresby.
The business is essentially a
marketing organisation, , its
diverse activities including
importing, exporting, distribu-
tion and agency-represen-
tations. The London office acts
as a buying-house for all types
of U.K. and Continental
materials for sale in Australia,
and it also imports into the
U.K. dried and canned fruits,
canned meats, etc. The
London office places orders
for capital-equipment required
by Australian and N.Z. cus-
tomers, including materials
and equipment required on
public works by Government
and semi-Government authori-
ties. The co. also acts as
Australian and N.Z. buying-
agent for the Navy, Army and
Air Force Institute (NAAFI)
in the U.K.
The prospectus comments,
with apparent justification,
that Gollin’s “roots are deep
throughout the British Com-
monwealth and strong and old-
established connections in
most important trading coun-
tries of the world add an inter-
national flavor to an unusually
comprehensive business.”
Principal lines handled by
the co., as importer and/or
distributor, include Australian-
manufactured building-
materials and hardware;
imported ditto ; industrial raw
materials from raw cotton,
latex and rubber to sulphur,
cocoa - beans and gums;
printing-machines and printers’
supplies; paper and news-
print from the U.K. and
Canada; plastic materials,
“Sonostat interference negligible—radar iso- sensitivity
good. This safe is going to be easy."
heavy and fine industrial
chemicals and pharmaceuti-
cals ; textiles ; * Kidderminster
carpets; packaging and carton
materials ; wines and spirits ;
tea and coffee; Eastern pro-
duce, foodstuffs and supplies
for manufacturing - grocers;
exporting and importing ser-
vices for mining and manufac-
turing ; sporting-goods.
Gollin’s holds shares in
many of the cos. for which it
acts as distributor.
On the exporting side, steel,
foodstuffs, coal, lumber, flour,
minerals, metals and manufac-
tured goods are shipped to
various parts of the world.
When the full list of Gollin’s
activities and subsidiary (and
sub-subsidiary) companies is
examined it is not surprising
to learn that the co. has seven
managing-directors, or that
“with its growth established
by the variety of its work, the
organisation has a large staff
of senior and experienced
executives and salesmen, many
of whom are highly trained
technical men."
Gollin Holding?, Ltd., was
formed on August 30, 1957,
and then issued 844,000 £1
fully-paid ords. for all the
shares in Gollin and Co., Ltd.
Subsequently the shares in the
operating co. were written-up
by £422,002, and this amount
.was distributed to shareholders
in the new holding-co. in a one-
for-two bonus-issue.
' At present the capital of
Gollin Holdings, is thus
£1,266,007 in £1 shares. The
public issue of 400,000 £1
shares at par , will carry the
total to £1,666,007. Allowing
for this new capital, and an
issue of £400,000 of 8 p.c7
unsecured notes being made
concurrently, a pro forma
statement of assets and liabili-
ties shows total fixed assets at
£803,029, investments at
£239,420, and current assets
at £7,797,471 (of which trade
debtors amount to £3,755,420
and stocks £2,332,617). Against
these there are interests of
pref. shareholders in Gollin
and Co., Ltd., £360,000, and
liabilities £6,579,825 (sundry
creditors and bills pay-
able figure in this item at
£4,211,350).
In the asset figures there
appears to have been only a
moderate writing-up (£154,078)
of fixed assets and a writing-
back of £28,6,375 of excess
provisions. Bonus - issues
appear to have been based very
largely on ploughed-back
profits.
Over the past 30 years
Gollin and Co. never failed
to pay a dividend, though a
loss was incurred in one year.
That was in 1953, and was a
result of credit-restrictions fol-
lowing over-importing and
over-extension of credit gener-
ally in Australia.
Over the past three years
profits would represent 10.3 p.c.
(1955), 13 p.c. (1956). and 17.2
p.c. (1957) on a paid-up ord.
capital of £1,666,007.
Net tangible cover for the
ords. is 275. Id. each on the
reconstructed balance-sheet.
It is expected that the co. will
be able to pay dividends, of at
least 7 p.c. p.a. in normal*
trading conditions. The shares
represent an investment in mer-
chandising of unusual breadth.
The Pre-Budget Week
T ast days before the intro-
' duction of the Federal
Budget continued to be bright-
ened by developments, now
mostly of the sharemarket
kind, in our TV economy.
Tecnico ords. rocketed up
to 41s. 6d., after a “low" of
18s. 3d. this year, then reacted
to 38s. The Tecnico group
is now doing well out of the
manufacture of carburettors
the Holden as well as out
of Pye television.
There was a strong demand
for Electronic Industries,
E.M.1., Ducon and other
shares possessing a TV back-
ground.
Australia's only listed TV-
transmitting station, Television
Corporation, Sydney, which
has. yet to produce accounts
for its past year but which is
reputed to be around the profit-
earning stage, has seen its
shares shoot-up from below
par (10s.) to around 15s. in
a matter of weeks.
Away from TV, one of the
interesting happenings of the
past week was the agreement
by Spillers, Ltd., one of the
largest flourmillers in the U.K.-,
to take-up 750,000 10s. ords.
at par in John Darling and
Son (Aust.), Ltd., as well as
375,000 6 p.c. £1 convertible
(1963, at par) notes.
From Canberra it was
announced that, apart from
some liberalisations with
regard to capital-equipment
brought in from dollar areas,
import-licensing would remain
on'its existing scale for the
next four months.


Cap* York
QUEENSLAND
★
★
NEW SOUTH WALES
vicTom~\
"From
Cape York
to
Portland"-
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson. C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Norman .T. Carson,
C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton; F. S. Vine. C.M.G.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and Riverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald. Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman):
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. F. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: A. B. Tilemann. Assistant Manager; A. G. W.
Dent. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District Repre-
sentative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT23a
FROM SLOW FAVORITES TO AUTOMATION
A/f ass-production of motor-
cars is now well under way
within the Sydney city area.
On the site of the old Vic-
toria Park racecourse, Zetland,
the British Motor Corporation
of Australia is turning-out
motor-cars with 85-90 p.c.
Australian content and has
been doing so for the past four
or five months.
If the late Joynton Smith,
who founded “Smith’s Weekly,”
had been among the throng
of Australian motoring-editors
who toured the B.M.C. works
last week, he would have been
satisfied that no one was
“running stiff” on the site of
the racecourse he used to own.
What was once the venue of
“the ponies” and the “red-
hots” now productively
employs 5000 Australians
(7000 at full capacity), and the
full capacity of the plant is 1000
vehicles a week. The change-
over is greatly to be com-
mended ; and we may one day
(perhaps!) see city lottery-
offices being turned into centres
for the distribution of Aus-
tralian manufactures.
The 57-acre B.M.C. factory,
which represents an outlay of
£l3 million, houses some of the
most modern automotive plant
in the world, and automation
is evident in both the engineer-
ing and bodybuilding aspects
of production. To the onlooker
the treatment of the body-
surface, from rust-proofing to
baked-enamelling, is a spec-
tacular illustration of auto-
mation. At the same time the
personal “after-care” of the job
before it goes to the salesroom
is quite a feature of production,
and is probably in part made
economically possible by the
preceding savings through
automation.
The engines being made at
Victoria Park are the 1500c.c.
B.M.C. power-units for the
Morris Major, Austin Lancer
and Wolseley 1500. The bodies
are also made on the spot in the
Fisher and Ludlow body-
works. Other B.M.C. vehicles,
including the Morris Minor,
are imported in “completely
knocked-down” form and
assembled in the factory.
Engine and Suspension
The engine, transmission and
suspension factory divides
broadly into two sections—the
manufacture and processing of
components and the final
assembly into completed units.
It covers about four acres, and
houses the machines which
convert raw materials into the
finished components, with three
assembly-lines for the building-
up of power-units, gearboxes,
front-suspensions and rear-
axles.
Major components manufac-
tured are cylinder-blocks and
-heads, crankshafts, flywheels
and starter-rings, manifolds,
brake-drums, camshafts, con-
necting-rods, gearbox casings,
valve-rockers, swivel - pins,
selector-forks and -rods, lay-
shafts, clutch withdrawal-levers,
valve-rocker brackets, wheel-
hubs, differential-shafts, stub-
shafts and axle-cases.
Cylinder-blocks
Among the largest and most
complicated machines in the
factory are those which cpnvert
cylinder-blocks from the rough
castings bought in from Gee-
long. The castings pass through
11 operations on individual
machines before reaching the
first of the multiple-purpose
“transfer” machines.
This machine, controlled by
one operator, carries-out 39
separate operations, including
drilling, boring, milling, ream-
ing, spot-facing and tapping. ,
The capacity of this machine
under normal working condi-
tions is approximately one
operation every two minutes,
but each operation can have
as many as 18 simultaneous
functions. Other transfer-
machines carry-out crank, cam
and oil-pump borings, and
boring and facing for the
attaching of the distributor. In
all, transfer-machines carry-out
343 individual operations.
The transfer-machines are
push-button controlled by use
of electrical relays.
Crankshafts
All crankshafts used in the
engines produced in this plant
are forged in Sydney, and each
shaft undergoes 38 operations
before it is ready for assembly
into an engine.
Cylinder-heads
Cylinder-head castings are of
Australian manufacture. The
head is first milled and drilled
and then the face of the head
which joins the manifold is
machined. It is then loaded
.onto a transfer-machine which
performs 25 successive opera-
tions, some of which entail
the drilling of 11 holes
simultaneously. ,
Differential Housing, etc.
Castings for diff.-housings are
also of Australian origin. Each
housing passes through 10
different operations before it
is bored for fitting the crown-
wheel and pinion and passed to
final inspection.
Completed components from
the manufacturing and pro-
cessing section are conveyed to
a “holding” area adjacent to
the final assembly-lines and
fed in at intervals.
Engine - components are
assembled on a moving track
which turns-off one engine
approximately every five
minutes. The speed of the
track can be varied to cope with
assembly requirements,
The engine-block is placed
first on a cradle on the line,
where it passes through a
washing - machine which
thoroughly cleans the block and
some of the parts used in the
assembly. The block is accom-
panied by a tray throughout the
length of the line, on which is


din
First mortgage debenture stock
SHORT TERM
0
PER ANNUM
12 months 5%
9 . . . A\%
6 . . . 4%
3 • • • 3|%
LONG TERM
it
PER ANNUM
5-10 years 7%
4 . . . 6|%
3 • • * 6%
2 . . . 5|%
GENERAL CREDITS LIMITED offers first mortgage
debenture stock on long or short term basis. Cumulative
stock carrying 6i% compounded on yearly rests with
currencies of 5 to 15 years.
Interest is paid quarterly free
of exchange.
Investors wishing to withdraw
earlier than the specified
term may do so in accordance
With the conditions described
in the prospectus.
PROSPECTUS:
Bankers are the Commercial
Bank of Australia Limited, from
whom the prospectus is avail-
able and from Members of the
Stock Exchange and Company
Offices at Corner Pitt & Goulburn
Streets, Sydney. Phone: AAA 8276.
BROKERS: J. B. WERE & SON
This is not a prospectus and does not constitute
an invitation to subscribe
10372/N.
placed all components that will
be required in the assembly of
the complete engine.
The engine is eventually
removed from the assembly-
line and placed on a rotary
running-in machine. The
engines are tested on this
machine six at a time and are
placed in position, where they
are oilfed under pressure and
are electrically driven whilst
rotating on the machine.
Each engine is given a run
of approximately 15-16 minutes
to ensure that all components
are free and that all parts have
been fitted. Tests are made for
oil-water leak. Compression is
also checked.
Before the gearbox proper
is worked on the line, pre-
assembly of gear-components is
carried-out. The gearbox is
flushed-out while on the
assembly-line and given a
selector-test to make sure that
all gears can be selected
correctly and there are no
deficiencies in the working of
the gearbox. -
The components necessary
for the assembly of front-end
and differential units are placed
in baskets on the line. At the
beginning the front - end
assembly and differential are
dealt with separately. The
bearings and oil-seals are first
pressed into thenhubs, and the
upper and lower spring-links
are t h en fitted
■ / h differential
„ • •• F . Jr
dasmg ,o,ns the me, when the
back cable and plugs and cable-
brackets are fitted The
1
d f e « nt,al gears . a l e , th f
pla ? ed ~ n to. p ° s ’h m b gfc
PJ at « « l«ked,up and the half-
shatts 'nserted-
. The front assembly then has
added the back-plates, hubs
(pre-loaded to 301 b. pressure),
after which the split-pin is
inserted. Main-springs are then
pressed into the assembly and
the brake-drums fitted. The
brake-shoes are then adjusted
and the unit passed on for final
inspection and painting,
As the completed engines
come off the assembly-line, one
in ten is taken at random every
90 minutes for testing. The
test takes 24 hours.
This electrically controlled transfer-machine is one of the four that
turn rough castings into completely machined cylinder-blocks.
Press Shop
The assembly of a body-shell
from sheet-steel involves a
multitude of processes and a
host of machines ranging from
simple hand-operated presses
to many-tonned electrically
controlled giants.
Majorty of the body-com-
ponents required by B.M.C.
vehicles are pressed at Victoria
Park by Fisher and Ludlow
(Aust.), a B.M.C. subsidiary,
although some, notably a pro-
portion of chassis (floor-section)
are imported from the U.K.
Sheet-steel used in the press-
shop is rolled to specification in
Australia, principally at Port
Kembla, and in the U.K. and
the U.S.A.
The heavy-press section
stamps out roof-panels. The
sheets are first corner-trimmed
and the roof-panels are then
drawn. The panels then pass
to another press in which they
are “clipped” all the way
round and to another where the
edges of the drip - rail are
trimmed. Other processes cut
out the window lights.
The “flow” of production in
the press-shop is relatively
complicated inasmuch as the
body-shell comprises a number
of components which have to
be built-up in sections before
meeting together in the final
production-line.
Boot-lids, for instance, consist
of an inner and outer skin-
pressing. These are brought
together in a jig in which the
outer edges are turned over.
Another jig clinches the edges,
while the flanges are welded in
yet another.
The bonnet consists of an
outer skin only with stiffeners
welded into position in a jig.
Both boot-lias and bonnets are
inspected and buffed to remove
any blemishes.
Doors for the body section
are made-up of primarily inner
and outer pressings. The outer
pressing is spot-welded to fix
the window-light channels in
position, while ashtrays, aper-
tures, hinge reinforcements and
(Continued on page 36)


“The ideas colossal in theory; hut nudes in the theatre mustn't move."


FOR SALE
BEL-AIR CHEVROLET
hard top American 1956
VB, heavy duty springs, tinted
glass, seat covers. SYDNEY
FW 4237 evening.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Elena Nikolaidi
One of the rarities in music
is a singer who sings as other
people breathe, so naturally
that there is no consciousness
of effort. Rarer still is a singer
who is also beautiful to look at.
Elena Nikolaidi is both these
rarities. If there is a better
contralto living, Australia
certainly hasn’t heard her over
the last 30 years.
She began her opening recital
at Sydney Town Hall with a
unique 16th-century operatic
excerpt —the “Rejoice At My
Singing, Leafy Glades,” from
Peri’s “Orfeo” and her pro-
grammes continued in the same
spirit of high quality and
avoidance of the hackneyed.
A charming offering was the
six-song group of children’s
lieder by Taubert, a contem-
porary of Schumann and
Mendelssohn. Here is a
medium as difficult as a singer
may venture into —the projec-
tion of juvenile thoughts and
experiences without losing their
delicate spirit. By captivating
humor and mock mischievous-
ness, offset by an occasional
grave touch—as in the beautiful
“Evening Bells” —the contralto
was wholly successful.
The second recital, also
mostly off the beaten track,
contained as an exception
Schumann’s “Woman’s Life and
Love,” a cycle that as a
challenge to a singer’s technical
and interpretative equipment,
has only one superior
Schubert’s “Winter’s Journey.”
Maurice Till was an alert and
understanding collaborator atf
the piano.
❖ ❖ ♦>
* f Can-can”
Return of Cole Porter’s
“Can-Can” to Sydney Empire
with an all-Australian cast
showed how well Australians
can do such things without
outside help (except the words
and music); all Jill Perryman
needed, to rival an imported
musical-comedy star, was a
glamor build-up and an
inability to act.
When she was, as the pro-
prietress of a low dance-hall
in Paris, seducing Frank
Wilson, as the newly appointed
young judge, one was some-
times embarrassed by a
euphemistic rightness, which,
of course, the musical-comedy
plot quickly dispelled. One
could not make quite the same
reproach to William Newman ;
he has a first-class musical-
comedy presence ; he is young,
with a fine voice, . and this
makes all the chorus-girls and
the audience sympathise with
him in the impossible situa-
tions Abe Burrows, who wrote
the book, involves him in.
The best comedy in the show
is the teamwork of Keith
Petersen, Robert Healey as the
painter, and Fran Sheldon as
the poet in their studio when
John Newman, a suitably fear-
some critic, comes to judge the
sculptures.
“Gigi”
Anita Loos did this adapta-
tion of Colette’s comedy
about a girl who is being
trained by her grandmother and
retired-courtesan aunt for a
career in the Paris society of
1900, so it isn’t surprising that
the emphasis has been shifted
from Colette’s tenderness to her
shrewdness, with an admixture
of Anita Loos’s cheerful
cynicism about the commercial
side of the sex-war.
Still, it remains Colette's
story, and Lesley Lindsay’s
competent production of it at
the North Sydney Independent
contains enough charm and
delicacy to lift it well out of
the class of the conventional
glossy comedy.
Verity Marina kept her
Gigi swaying beautifully on the
edge of womanhood, mixing
awkwardness with grace, and
childish excitement with
moments of deep womanly
response.
Olive Walter gave a pleas-
ing, though sometimes over-
emphatic, account of the earthy
grandmother ; Ailsa Grahame
played Sybil Thorndike playing
the aunt, but she could have
picked a worse model, and she
brought it off well; while
Marilyn Thomas made Gigi’s
mother an incredibly light-
headed and tone-deaf opera-
singer.
❖ ♦♦♦
“Funfiesta”
Sydney Tivoli’s current show
is vastly more entertaining than
its immediate predecessor was.
Milton Douglas was an
Instant hit with his deadpan
humor; comedian Billy
Baxter (“England’s zaniest’’)
sometimes quite impressively
zany, often too forced;
Dorothy Costello momentarily
elevated the show to ’ighbrow
levels with a nice bit of
ballet - dancing ; and the
“laugh - provoking Parisian
pianist’’ Roily Rolls rolled
through a number of imper-
sonations of different pianists
and performed “Dream of
Olwen” (with orchestral).
There were two outstanding
acts: the Australian Horrie
Dargie Quintet, who sing and
play their various instruments
with style and polish; and
The Najas, a dancing trio from
Paris, who present an extra-
ordinary thing called “Jungle
Fantasy.”
❖ ♦♦♦
German Drama
Bertholt Brecht, the modern
German playwright with
Marxist tendencies, has been
given two-weeks’ consideration
at the Union Theatre, Univer-
sity of Melbourne.
First the German Society
put on his “Mother Courage,”
in his native language, and
then the Marlowe Society
weighed in with “The Cauc-
asian Chalk Circle” in Eng-
lish.
The last-mentioned, being
presented in a language more-
or-less understood by this com-
mentator, will have to suffice as
a look-in on the controversial
Herr Brecht.
Clearly he is not concerned
with bringing his characters to
life in -a Chekhovian sense. If
anything, he is somewhat like
Shaw, though less articulate and
argumentative.
“The Caucasian Chalk
Circle” deals with Society’s
man - made institutions
namely the laws of the police-
force and of convention. Brecht
dismisses both as unreal and
inhuman.
He throws at us a poor
housemaid who nicks off with
her wealthy mistress’s child.
The housemaid has true
maternal feelings for the un-
fortunate infant; the' lawful
mother has not. Who is its real
owner?
In Brecht’s court of law,
presided over by a peasant
philosopher untramelled by
orthodoxy, it belongs to the
woman who needs it most —in
short, the housemaid. The child
is no doubt meant to be taken
as a symbol, as are all Brecht’s
characters. Fit whatever you
like into his symbols and the
result seems to be that Brecht


Now even faster handling of bulk grain!
= OU PUT
INPUT
*****
LYSAGHT
Grain Augers
A completely new type now available to fill
and empty Lysaght silo*. Features include:
• Unique centre-drive unit (patent pending
No. 22636/56) os shown in insert below.
• Improved capacity.
• All working parts com-
pletely encased.
• Adjustable chut •
tube.
HOW TO SELECT A VERTICAL AUGER TO FIT
A LYSAGHT SILO—CENTRE FILLING ONLY
SILO CAPACITY IN BUSHELS
ERECTED T'O oo 2,000 2,000 3,000 3,500 4,500 8,500
(squat)
Without Earth Ring VUIO V 2012 V 2412 V24T2 V2BT4 V 3214 V 3614
With Earth Ring .. V 2012 V 2012 V 2814 V'2814 V 2814 V 3214 V4OlB
AUGER PRICES
(F.O.R. NEWCASTLE)
VI6IO £l4B
V 2012 £154
V 2412 £l6O
V 2814 £167
V 3214 £175
V 3614 £179
V4OlB £lB9
SILO AND EARTH RING PRICES
(F.O.R. NEWCASTLE)
Nom. Cap. Act. Cap. Steel
Bushels Bush. Silo Earth Ring
1,000 .. 1,280 £l3B £l6 15 0
2,000 (Tall) 2,100 £2ll £25 5 0
2,000 (Squat) 2,410 £2ll £33 10 0
3,000 .. 3,380 £275 £33 10 0
3.500 .. 3,780 £298 £33 10 0
4.500 .. 4,850 £453 £4l 5 0
8.500 .. 9,250 £719 £5l 10 0
Write for further information to:
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. in all Capital Cities or
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED. NEWCASTLE WORKS
A39AYC
believes in ownership by human
need.
Physically and audibly the
characters are not easily recog-
nisable, but their feelings and
beliefs belong to most of us.
Anne Howey, as the maid,
appeared moody and maternal
enough to need the child. She
acted with considerable poise
and well-judged feeling. Jim
Morrison, as the bumptious
vehicle for Brecht’s wit and
social commentary, did well,
and Wilbur Sanders gave the
show a competent production.
❖ ♦:* *
“Miles Gloriosus”
The glorious soldiers of the
Classical Society and the
Department of Latin have been
doing “Miles Gloriosus,” by
Plautus, in the Wallace Theatre
as part of Sydney University’s
current festival of drama and
music. In Latin.
♦> ❖ *:♦
Celebrities in Melbourne
“Namatjira Suite,” an
American negro baritone and
a South Australian conductor
were offered to Melbourne
audiences by the omnipotent
A.B.C. at a recent orchestral
concert. The results were some-
times interesting, often musical,
at times banal.
Namatjira paints ghost-gums,
red hills and the blue, blue
skies of the Never Never.
Douglas attempts to evoke
these musically.
Perhaps similarity ends at
the attempt. Namatjira paints
landscapes ; he does not attempt
to re-create visually age-old
tribal customs and racial
mysteries. His eye has been
cultivated by white men.
Douglas’s work suggests,
musically, a corroboree taking
place round flickering fires oil
a pitchblack night; but this
is purely a matter of our
individual associations. To
another person with different
associations it might conjure-up
an image- of a storm at sea —or
many other things, none of
them looking much like a
Namatjira painting.
Moreover, Douglas is listen-
ing to his subject-matter with
ears attuned to contemporary
Western musicians. Nonetheless
he often creates wonderful
sounds and lavish textures.
Simply as abstract music the
opening to his suite demands
attention. Taken literally, it is
perplexing.
It sounded much finer to the
ear, on the whole, than did
William Walton’s Johannesburg
Festival overture, despite the
earnest efforts of conductor
Krips and ( his orchestral
assistants.
William Warfield, the
American negro, sang a group
of four songs traditionally,
naturally and unpretentiously.
Arias by Mozart and Handel,
and Bach’s wonderful “Es in
Wallbracht” were treated by
Warfield as, no doubt, their
authors intended them to be
treated, which stamps him as
a great singer.
Henry Krips finally swung
his orchestra into the familiar,
inspired paths of Beethoven’s
Pastoral Symphony. He steered
a true and straight course.
♦J* ❖ ❖
“The Barber of Seville”
Producer Stefan Haag's
determination to play the
comedy .(including a deal of
slapstick) for all the laughs he
could squeeze out of the Beau-
marchais comedy - situations,
contributed largely to the
success gf the Sydney opening
of the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust’s production of “The
Barber.’’
After all, this is opera buff a,
so why not let buffoonery
have its head? Don Basilio,
the not-so-holy music-master,
was created to be a figure of
fun, so why not have him
funny, even ridiculously
funny? So, too, with the fatu-
ous old Dr. Bartolo, whose head
is as hard as his arteries. And
the shaving scene does call for
a hearty slosh of soap poked
into the doc.’s eye, as much for
laughs as to ensure that he
can’t see the phony music-
master putting in the good
work with Rosina, under the
guise of teaching her how to
warble sweetly. And here, in-
cidentally, lay one of the pro-
duction’s few weak spots —
the Count-c/vm-music-master
should have made more use of
his amorous opportunities than
he did.
John Northcote’s setting was
both ingenious and economi-
cal. With his cutaway two-
story house he had both Dr.
Bartolo’s study and Rosina’s
boudoir open, as it were, to
public inspection ; at the same
time making the street con-
tiguous. Thus he had no need
to change the scene through-
out, a complete departure
from conventional settings.
But there seemed no point in
having his players reef off their
wigs and otherwise cast off im-
pedimenta just before lemons.
Rosalind Keene, standing-in
at short notice for the role of
Rosina, acquitted herself well.
Quite appealing as the roman-
tically minded ward of Dr.
Bartolo, though perhaps a
little shy on vivacity, she used
her light and very flexible
coloratura with accuracy and
judgment. Moreover, she dis-
played a rare coloraturic vir-
tue: giving her words clarity
while-juggling notes speedily
in the stratosphere.
Donald Smith, as Count
Almaviva, moved with autho-
rity and ease from the haughti-
ness of the nobleman spurn-
ing the importunities of
the street musicians who sup-
ply the accompaniment to his
opening serenade, to the
comedy of his disguise as a
half-shot soldier attempting to
gatecrash the Bartolo men-
age. His lyric tenor had a
good ring to it.
Robert Simmons was more
happily cast as Figaro. His
was a barber of bouncing self-
confidence ; he fitted into the
comedy-pattern easily, and he
used his splendid baritone with
vigor and style in “Room for
the Factotum.”
But the honors of the night
went to the two character-
men. As Basilio the music-
master, Alan Light was (as
well as wore) a sad sack, and
he sported a beautiful five-
o’clock shadow to go with his
scarlet-fever. As well as keep-
ing Momus hopping briskly
every time he appeared, he
sang his “Slander Song” with
admirable power,
Neil Warren-Smith was a
capitally rageful Bartolo. He
brought an excellent bass-bari-
tone to bear on his “Missing
Leaf” aria and to his ensemble
singing. Ella Banner’s Gover-
ness was a neatly etched


ASSETS EXCEED
£55,000,000
PAID UP CAPITAL
£9,000,000
X/
A
A
UJ
C
SHAREHOLDERS'
FUNDS
, £11,500,000
IN REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
at
7
p.a...Oyr
LA.C. guarantees fixed quarter!
income, tree of exchange.
Our Auditors, L. B. Wallace &
Son, Chartered Accountants (Aus-
tralia), have certified that the
Tangible Assets of the Group as
31st May, 1958, amounted to
£58,441, 576.
0
0
For full details, see Prospectus: your copy available from Members
of Stock Exchanges , 703 Branches of A.N.Z. Bank Limited
or I.A.C. Branches.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LTD.
(Established 28 years)
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART • CANBERRA
• NEWCASTLE • WOLLONGONG • GEELONG
Underwriting Brokers:
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne
Canberra and Sydney
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders:
The Perpetual Executors & Trustees Association
of Australia Limited
DBI
character, and she sang her
only song well.
The sparkling score was
tossed about lightly and ex-
pertly by the orchestra under
the baton of Eric Clapham.
Artbursts
Israeli Painters
Although the dominant im-
pression given by this show —■
at Melbourne’s Museum of
Modern Art —is that each paint-
ing sounds like an echo of
something that has gone before,
there are several works of more
than average competence and
quality.
It appears that all of the 27
Israeli painters represented are
far more comfortable in an
abstract subjective world than
when faced with the huge diffi-
culties posed by understanding
what actually exists in front
of their eyes.
It is hard to imagine Dan
Hoffner raging against his in-
significance before an old-
fashioned deity like Nature, as
did Corot when he was work-
ing on his “Seated Figure.” He
prefers to follow men like
Henry Moore in his sculptured,
rhythmical constructions. Simi-
larly, Arieh Lubin pays his
respects to Cezanne a little
mildly—in his landscape “Wadi
Musrara.” The same painter's
“Synagogue in Safed” succeeds
better than the other works in
this show on religious themes.
Nahum Gutman puts the
clock back several centuries
in his “Old Olive Trees.” He
has made interesting use of
Stone Age bison-drawings,
though he has lost the vitality
and economy of line engineered
by his artistic predecessors.
Zvi Shorr succeeds with a
shock impressionistic attack in
“Landscape” and “Village,”, but
he has lost sight of the sun and
its real work with Nature in
his laborious patchworks.
Miron Sima’s lithographs are
worth attention.
Kaete Ephraim Marcus has
a tentative go at painting a
small child, “Ada,” representa-
tionally, but his efforts at
capturing the girl's looks are
puny.
Films
“The Girl Most Likely”
This featherweight escape-
stuff has Jane Powell as a
typist who becomes engaged
simultaneously to three men:
a prosaic realty-salesman, a
candid mechanic and a
millionaire playboy. That
she finally dices his richer
rivals for the humble but
faithful engine-boy will bring
ecstatic sighs from the pony-
tail world.
The light-hearted doings are
made tolerable by some fast,
well-executed dance-sequences
with a Mexican background,
and Jane Powell’s undoubted
appeal and comedy-timing help.
Tommy Noonan, who talks
long and speedily as a good
blockseller should ;. Keith
Andes, bored with his wealth ;
and Cliff Robertson, as the
mechanic, carry the male
banner.
At Sydney Mayfair.
<£♦
“This Happy Feeling”
F. Hugh Herbert, who minted
“The Moon Is Blue,” fails to
produce" any piquant comedy-
situations in this milk-and-
water story about a sweet and
innocent teenager who casts-up,
storm-wet and escaping from
her fresh boy-friend, at the
home of a world-weary, famous
actor who breeds bloodstock.
Naturally the noble-minded
actor will not take advantage of
her innocence.
That excellent dramatic actor
Curt Jurgens is wasted on such
feeble fodder.
At Sydney State.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Patons & Baldwins (Aust.), Ltd.
Erratic movements in the published
profits of Patons and Baldwins (Aus-
tralia), Ltd., over the past seven years
could have been dampened somewhat by
an accounting policy less rigid (but not
necessarily better) than that adopted by
the co., and the steep nose-dive taken
by earnings last term should be viewed
with this fact in mind.
Of course, no amount of financial
juggling or accounting skill can alter the
actual earning-power of a business or
eliminate the difficulties of trading in a
falling market, but, as P. and B.’s chief
stock-in-trade is wool, the coincidence of
last term’s balance-date with the weakest
period of the season’s wool sales had a
not-inconsiderable bearing on the final
results.
Despite rather violent fluctuations in
earnings, P. and B. has given a reason-
ably good account of itself in the seven
years since it took over the Australian
interests of Patons and Baldwins, Ltd.
(U.K.). As a percentage of ord. capital,
net profits, less pref. divs., have averaged
a shade under 15 p.c. (17 p.c. over the
last five terms), intangibles of almost
£50,000 have been written-off, and
£1,072,321 sent to reserves. As might
be expected in a concern affected by the
uneertainties of the wool market, the
accumulation of reserves has, as a rule,
taken precedence over the payment of
divs., and the reduction in last term’s
ord. div.-rate from 8| p.c. to 6 p.c. left
the average rate of distribution at 5.7 p.c.
Carrying-on a business established to-
wards the end of the last century, the
Victorian-registered P. and B. owns a
large mill at Launceston (Tasmania)
where locally bought wool is converted
into high-grade hand-knitting and em-
broidery wools as well as into yarn for
use by the textile-industry. A merchan-
dising department handles a number of
local and imported lines, including syn-
thetic fibres, angora yarns, rug- and
tapestry-canvas, knitting-needles, etc.
On formation the co. bought the net
tangible assets of its English parent’s
Australian branch for £3,879,016, paying
£1,000,000 in f.-p. ords. and £1,200,000
in cash, the balance (£1,679,016) being
regarded as an interest-free loan, repay-
able in 1976. Ad vance-repayments
against this loan (£lOO,OOO last term) have
reduced the debt to £1,350,000. Shortly
after incorporation 750,000 £1 5 p.c.
prefs. and 500,000 £1 ords. were offered
to the public at par, raising paid capital
to £2,250,000.
In volume, turnover during the year
to May 3 last was second only to the
record figure of the previous term, but
the 30 p.c. drop in wool-prices over the
year ate into profit-margins and led to
cautious ordering by customers, while a
general weakening in demand kept
trading-conditions highly competitive.
As a result, “profit on trading,” in-
cluding £10,806 (down £4015) of invest-
ment income, slumped from £963,167 to
£639,918, of which £252,229 was used to
write-down stocks to the market-values
ruling on May 3 and £89,644 (up £21,547)
provided for depreciation. A £246,000
reduction in the tax-provision (£136,000)
left net earnings at £160,045, £351,025 (or
68.6 p.c.) below the previous term’s
effort:
r~ Dividends
Pref. To Re-
May, Profit. 6 p.c. t Ord. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1953.. 37,500 6 = 90,000 202,105 199,934
Tax overprovided, etc., £66,454 ... 266,38 S
1954.. 37,500 6 = 90,000 132,904 399,292
Profit sale assets, £619 .. .. 399,911
Tax overprovided, £7B .. .. .. 399,989
1955.. 161.740 37,500 6 = 90,000 34,240 434,229
Tax overprovided, £2OO .. .. 434,429
1956.. 37,500 = 112,500 221,011 656,440
Tax overprovided, £3996 . . . . 659,436
1957.. 070 37,500 = 127,500 346,070 1,005,506
Tax overprovided, £24,916 .. .. 1,030,422
Profit, sale investments, £9354 .. 1,039,776
1958.. 045 37,500 6 = 90,000 32,545 1,072,321
The smaller profit was sufficient to
cover the pref. div. and show 8.1 p.c. on
ord. capital, as against 31.5 p.c. in 1957,
the £32,545 remaining after payment of
the 6 p.c. ord. div., along with a capital-
profit of £9354 and an overprovision for
tax of £24,916, taking the net addition
to reserves to £66,815.
A sharp increase in stocks, the largest
item in the balance-sheet, contributed to
the substantial nature of the write-down,
a drop in both book-debts (down
£125,071) and creditors (down £151,397)
following the lower value and volume of
turnover. At the same time capital-
expenditure on an unusually heavy scale
cut working-capital by £742,533 (to a
still comfortable £2,880,998), hn over-
draft (£377,081) appearing in the accounts
for the first time, while holdings of cash,
bonds, etc., shrank from £931,526 to
£87,392. Nevertheless the overall picture
remains one of sound finances and
financial strength:
Paid capital— 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref £750(900 £750,000 £750,000
Ord 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Reserves .. .. 655,440 1,005,506 1,072,321
Deferred liability.. 1,600,00 ft 1,450,000 1,350,000
Overdraft .. ..
Creditors .. .. 375,906 432,993 281.596
Tax reserve .. 313,039 383,352 293,000
Final divs. .'. 131,250 146,250 90,000
£5,326,235 £5,668,101 £5,718,998
Freeholds .. .. 374.991 447,202 708,512
Plant .. .. 474,984 634.773 1,082,811
Stocks .. .. 1,791,534 2,022,117 2,327,871
Debtors .. .. 1,390,347 1,632,483 1,507,412
Cash, etc 1,294,379 931,526 87,392
£5,326,235 £5,668,101 £5,713,998
In August, 1957, the board estimated
the cost of the current expansion and
modernisation programme at around
£1,200,000, and last term saw £272,791
outlayed on freeholds, etc., and £516,922
on plant. Shown at cost less deprecia-
tion, fixed assets were taken-over on
formation at £320,314, at which time
their value for insurance purposes was
given as £2,251,672.
By commencing the current year with
large and well written-down stocks, P.
and B. is in a good position to take
advantage of any strengthening of wool
prices—a movement which in its early
stages would tend to stimulate demand
—and wide fluctuations in values during
the coming selling-season would be neces-
sary to cause the discounting of stocks
on a scale comparable with that of last
term.
At balance-date book-values showed a
net tangible cover of £4 Bs. 7d. for the
£1 prefs. and a shade under 345. 4d. for
the f.-p. £1 ords., the prefs returning
£6 Os. 6d. p.c. at 16s. and the ords.
(which fetched 345. 6d. a year ago)
£4 2s. 9d. p.c., from a 6 p.c. distribution,
at 295.
W. C. Stevens (Holdings)
HPhe parent is a holding-co. pure and
simple, and was registered in Sydney
in October, 1953, to acquire the share-
capital of certain subsidiaries, since
wound-up, which owned the bulk of the
shares in the operator, W. C. Stevens
Pty. Issued were 344,992 20s. shares in
the parent, as direct and indirect con-
sideration, and capital was subsequently
increased by 30,008 shares at par for
the completion of the Arncliffe (Sydney)
factory. At the same time stockholders
placed £IOO,OOO of their £375,000 holding
with the public at par to qualify for
public status, and a further cash issue
in 1955 of 125,000 ordinaries (one-for-
three at par) brought paid capital up to
the half-million mark.
Antecedents go back to 1913, when
the late W. C. Stevens started-up in
a small way in Newtown. Steady expan-
sion in the sheet-metal field, and par-
ticularly in the manufacture of automo-
tive silencers, followed until the Second
"World War, during which mainly air-
craft parts were manufactured. The
proprietary was incorporated in 1948, by
which time there had been a branching-
out into refrigeration.
Present outturn is shared by two broad
divisions, automotive and refrigeration.
The automotive side was formerly based
in the main on the supplying of exhaust-
and muffler-parts for the replacement
trade, principal clients being G.M.-H.
and Chrysler; and the refrigeration
division on the turning-out of sheet-metal
stampings for the Crosley refrigerator,
manufactured in association with the
James N. Kirby organisation.
But now the purview of the organisa-
tion has been broadened considerably,
taking in the fabrication of steel tube
and tubular products, oil-filled electric
heaters, hot-water radiators, petrol-tanks,
car-seats and other motor accessories ;
and developmental expenses entrained by
the widened range, together with rising
costs and increased competition in
1956-57, were reflected in the sharply
reduced profit—£s7,32l as against the
£85,704 claimed in 1956 —-and turnover
continued to sag in the first six months
of 1957-58. May’s interim was cut from
5 p.c. to 31 p.c., but the outlook for the
year, according to chairman A. A.
Stevens, has since brightened consider-
ably.
As if in confirmation of this, W. C.
Stevens will shortly issue £IOO,OOO of


-8 p.c. registered unsecured notes at par
to finance a renewed upsurge of activity.
The notes will have a currency of five
years and are backed, for each £IOO, by
£296 of visible net tangibles, well below
the valuations computed by the investi-
gating accountants.
Accounts shown are for the subsidiary
only, which balances on June 30, three
months earlier than the parent. To arrive
at last year’s profit, £36,100 (£61,685 in
1956) was set aside for taxation, and for
depreciation £48,303 (up £339): —■
W. C. Stevens Pty., Ltd.
Div. to Reserves
June Profit. Parent. Div. by Parent. Subsid.*
30 £ £ £ £
1954 .. 85,216 69,000 10 p.c. = 37,500 178.547
Depreciation written-back, £4560 . . 183,113
1955 .. 86,229 45,'000 10 p.c. = 44,792 224,242
1956 .. 85,704 50,200 10 p.c. = 50,000 259,746
1957 .. 57,321 50,100 10 p.c. = 50,000 266,967
* Subject to goodwill, £15,000 at June 30, 1957.
The return on the parent’s average ord.
capital over the four years—22.7 p.c.
(1954), 19.2, 17.1, 11.5 p.c. (1957)—has
thus undergone a rather sharp decline.
From all appearances, finances are a
little tight, and can do with the assistance
of the note-money. Theoretically, at
least, working-capital is in short supply,
and a largish proportion of floating
assets is tied-up in not-so-liquid stocks:
W. C. Stevens Pty., Ltd.
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. .. .. £362,621 £362,621
Reserves .. .. .. 259,746 266,967
Mortgage .. .. - 6,000
Overdraft 232,753 235.009
Creditors .. .. .. 64,842 81,800
Owed to parent .. .. 592 592
Tax provision .. .. .. 61,601 36,075
Final dividend .. .. 25,200 25,100
£1,007,355 £1,014,164
Freeholds .. .. .. 225,570 243,765
Plant 348,753 344,102
Stocks and w.i.p. ~ 260.524 266,564
Debtors 148,227 132,397
Cash, investments, etc. .. 9,281 12,336
Goodwill .. . , .. 15,000 15,000
£1,007,355 £1,014,164
Consolidation of the accounts of the
parent and its subsidiary would be
effected approximately by substituting
£500,000 for the £362,621 of share-
capital shown above and reducing
reserves to £129,588. Net tangible asset
backing for the parent’s stock would
then be 245. 7d. for each unit.
Currently priced around par, the 20s.
scrip yields 7 p.c. on present indications,
or 10 p.c. if the usual dividend is held
after all.
W. T. Wood (Holdings), Ltd.
Tyrow the point at issue is whether this
time-tested profit-winner will be able
to hold to its 17y p.c. distribution-scale
on the now substantially higher equity-
shareholding, reinforced by £161,000 of
fresh capital over the past two terms.
Like Fisher’s Ghost, the sharemarket
prefers to sit on the fence for the time
being and is currently letting the ss. ord.
scrip ride at 9s. 4d. for a 9.4 p.c. yield
in the absence of some more concrete
portent from the present expansion-pro-
gramme.
Earnings, albeit high, have been kept
reliably static since 1951 by increasing
competition, which a snowballing turn-
over has barely offset, and a steady in-
flux of share-capital has tended to depress
the earning-rate itself, last term to a
point where the dividend outgo, £69,459,
was barely covered by the actual net
trading-profit, although there was a
handy side-gain of £46,191 from the
sale of certain investments. For this
multi-branched auto-parts distributor,
increasing demands by other sections of
the commercial world upon the already
heavily-committed automobilist leave one
solution only: more outlets and more
sales.
Last term W. T. Wood continued its
policy of shrinking its activities back to
the eastern States, where apparently the
pickings are choicest, and the unsatisfac-
tory Westralian subsidiary, Raphaels
Pty., was offloaded for a consideration
slightly under acquisition price. This
sale, together with that of the co.’s in-
terests in Motor Traders (N.Z.), Ltd.,
and Consolidated Auto Parts, Ltd., of
South Australia, accounts for the capital-
profit shown in the table below.
By way of compensation, three existing
N.S.W. businesses were grafted on to
the organisation, providing outlets at
Wollongong, Bathurst and Arncliffe, and
the Queensland offshoot has hung-up its
shingle in the State’s prosperous runner-
up city, Toowoomba. Ail these branch
acquisitions came, however, too late to
affect the term’s turnover to any extent,
but next year’s accounts should be in-
teresting reading.
In addition to the active Canberra-
registered but Sydney-based parent, the
group comprises the following wholly-
owned subsidiaries —Harrigan (Auto
Parts) Pty., (Wollongong), Hislop Lloyd,
Ltd. (Sydney), Motor Traders Pty.
(Sydney), Motor Traders (Qld.) Pty.
(Brisbane), Motor Traders (Vic.) Pty.
(Melbourne), Motor Parts (W.A.) Pty.
(Perth), and Newcastle Motors Pty.
As the following table shows, the
“little Budget” made only a slight hole
in profits ; in fact, any large-scale cur-
tailment of new-car sales would probably
react initially to the benefit of the
business:
.'r~ Dividends ■, To Re- Re-
Dee.3l, Profit. Pref. 5 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
Unexplained addition, £1961 .. .. 186,181
1953.. 71,215 3,750 174p.c. = 34,822 32,643 218,824
Unexplained addition, '£1451 .. .. 220,275
1954.. 79,996 3,750 174p.c. = 37,970 38,276 258.551
Unexplained addition, £7103 . . .. 265,654
1955.. 76,746 3,750 174p.c. = 40,911 32,085 297,739
Share premiums, £50,900 .. .. 347,739
Unexplained addition. £1674 .. .. 349,413.
1956.. 66,124 3,750 17-ip.e. = 45,723 16,651 366,064
Profit sale investments, £46,191 .. 412,255
Share premiums, £23,214 . . - .. 435,469
Unexplained reduction. £8528 .. ■ .. 426,941
1957.. 71,671 3,750 17t>p.c. = 65-,709 2,212 429,153
* Subject to intangibles, £7098, at
December 31, 1957.
Claimed £5547 higher after providing
£8443 (1956, £10,730) for depreciation
and £40,647 (£39,765) for taxation, the
group’s net earnings represented a return
of 17.6 p.c. on the average ord. capital
employed, compared with 37.5 p.c., 39.5,
35.3, 31.1, 35.1, 31.2, 23.9 p.c. from 1950
onward. The existing div.-rate has now
been held for seven years.
Despite the cash-issue at the end of
1956, visible reserves are approximately
equal to the ord. capital, and a bonus-
issue could come to light in the near
future without surprising. All fixed
assets, freeholds included, are shown in
the books on a cost-/cys-depreciation
basis.
Share-issues since formation in 1938
have been frequent, the latest taking in
400,000 ss. ords. (one-for-three) at 2s. 6d.
premium, offered to shareholders in
December, 1956.
At balance-date the overall picture
was one of convincing strength, a bare
minimum of outside funds showing-up
in the accounts:
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref £75,009 '£75,000 £75.000
Ord. .. .. 233,776 361,276 395,190
Reserves .. .. 297,739 366,064 429,153
Mortgage .. .. 25,125 24,625 57,425
Overdraft .. .. 60,468
Creditors .. .. 174,166 223,800 170,752
.Staff funds .. 3,288 5.545 5,585
Tax provision .. 50,984 59,355 63,910
Final dividends .. 25,253 28,002 40,488
£945,799 £1,143,667 £1,245,081
Freeholds .. .. 81,504 130,593 213,643
Leaseholds .. .. 8,674 8,065 7,456
Plant, fittings . . 66,481 73,279 61,188
Shares, bonds, etc. .. 36,337 36,337 24,198
Stock . . .. 475,715 502.919 512,443
Debtors .. .. 238,573 315,768 304,898
Inter-eo. balances .. 33,223 54,765 114,157
Cash . . ..
Intangibles . . 5,292 14,007 7,098
£945,799 £1,143,667 £1,245,081
Caution is the keynote of this enterprise,
and something more than the 9s. lOd.
of visible backing would cover the ord.
stock. The 20s. 5 p.c. prefs. are well
covered by £ll 7s. 6d. of net tangible
assets on book-values.
Swallow and Ariel!, Ltd. (Melb.)
Reorganisation of Swallow and
Ariell's marketing and proauction divi-
sions and tne sale of its troublesome
ice-cream business have, it seems, paid-
off handsomely, last term s record profit
coming only two years after a faltering
group-turnover, losses on ice-cream
manufacture and rising costs had slashed
earnings from £80,606 to £7480.
The reshuffling carried-out over the last
couple of years has been aimed at con-
centrating the group’s efforts on the
manufacture of biscuits, around which
the business was originally established
in 1854, and, with the liquidation last
term of Swallow and Ariell (Dehydrated
Products) Pty., the organisation now
consists of the parent (a holding co.
only, since May, ’57) and two biscuit-
manufacturing subsidiaries, Swallow’s
Biscuits Pty. (Melbourne) and Swallow
Haywood Pty. (Hobart). Entry into
Westralian and Queensland markets last
term left N.S.W. as the only Australian
State not served by the group.
Until the 1956 setback interrupted a
run of better-than-average profits the
post-war replacement of plant and the
installation of additional equipment had
been financed largely from retained
earnings, a moderate div.-policy ensuring
that a large proportion of the profits was
available for reinvestment. During the
1956 term, however, it was necessary to
raise a £59,550 mortgage-loan in


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COUR’f OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEOROE HAMILTON WORDIE late
of 477 Chapel Road Bankstown. —TAKE
NOTICE that ELIZABETH JANET
WORDIE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2645 of 1958 on the ground
of desertion by-reason of your failure
to comply with the decree of the Court
for restitution of conjugal rights If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
17th October 1958 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
W. R. THOMSON & CO., Solicitors. 14
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
£50,000
ISSUE OF
I registered!
DEB E N T URE
isTOCKi
EACH £lOO DEBENTURE IS
BACKED 8Y.£410 IN ASSETS.
Application forms and prospectus are
obtainable from any branch of the
Bank of N.S.W., any member of the
Sydney or Newcastle Stock Exchanges,
or the offices of the Company at Ist
Floor, Park House, 15 Park St., Sydney,
or Ist Floor, Morton House, 5 Union
Street, Newcastle West.
IS
5 TO 10
YEARS
4 YEARS
3 YEARS
2 YEARS
1 YEAR
6 MONTHS
o>£
N«
*
i i,
'-dSili
h
10
UNDERWRITERS:
F. S. Scorer & Co.,
T. & G. Building,
Hunter St., Newcastle
BANKERS TO ISSUE:
Bank of N.S.W.
All Branches
TRUSTEES:
Bankers and Traders’
Insurance Co. Ltd.,
131-133 Pitt St.. Sydney.
G&mmmmimm
GmMmmwm
mm
PHONES:
Sydney 8M6945
(4 lines)
Newcastle B 4601
• (8 lines) >
.V.NV
nvw!
onv
ino
dm
15 Pork St., Sydney or 5 Union St., Newcostle West
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LTD.,
IS Park St„ Sydney or 5 Union St., Newcastle West
Please send me a copy of Prospectus without obligation.
NAME . . ...yi.ni.T. . . . .........TTTTT,. i. H . .'jn ■ |*. .77. W, :>
ADDRESS
8.3.
order to bolster working-
capital.
The div.-rate was raised from
8 p.c. to 10 p.c. in 1951 (but
still called for less than a third
of the profit) and to 12£ p.c.
in 1954, the board drawing on
reserves to make a 7y p.c. dis-
tribution in 1956 before
restoring the 12i p.c. rate in
the following year. Unchanged
for over 30 years, the parents’
£300,000 paid capital is in
fully-participating 6 p.c. prefs.
(£100,000) and 30s. ords. paid
to 20s. (£200,000).
In a determined bid to boost
sales Swallow and Ariell has, in
recent years, switched from
agency to direct representation
in several major centres, under-
taken extensive advertising-
campaigns, and exported trial
shipments of biscuits to U.S.A.,
where it hopes to establish a
small but regular market for
some of its “specialised” lines.
Supported by a vigorous
selling-programme the two
operating subsidiaries were able
to effect a further increase in
group-turnover for the year to
April 24 last, net earnings
jumping by £51,307 to
£104,909:
Swallow ant) Ariell, Ltd., and
Subsidiaries.
s Dividends —— N Re-
April, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
To staff fund, £4500 . . 451,090
Loss on sale assets, £1314 449,770
1953.. 65,084 10 10 30,000 484.860
To staff fund, £3310 .. 481,550
Provision long-service leave,
£18,500 .. .. 463,050
Profit sale assets, £1293.. 464,343
Tax overprovided, £13,317 477,660
1954.. 90,901 121 121 37,500 531,061
•To staff fund, £3135 .. 527,926
Provision long-service leave,
£18,500 .. .. 509,426
Net loss sale assets, £395 509,031
1955.. 80,606 121 12$ 37,500 552,137
To staff fund, £SOO .. 551,637
Loss sale assets, £11,082 540,555
Provision long-service leave,
£2500 538.055
1956.. 7,480 7$ 7$ 22,500 523,035
Net loss, sale assets,
£35,179 .. .. 487,856
Tax overprovided, £4252.. 492.108
1957.. 53,602 121 121 37,500 508,210
Profit sale assets, £34,351 542,561
Tax reduction on recovery
of losses, £46,321 .. 588,882
Tax overprovided; - £5078 593.960
1958. .104,909 12$ 12$ 37,500 601,369
* Subject to £42,393 of goodwill at
28/4/’SB.
The actual result was even
better, as the tax-provision
(down £13,949) was apparently
calculated without allowing for
the accumulated losses avail-
able to a subsidiary, a £46,321
“reduction of income-tax pay-
able” being taken into account
after arriving at the profit
figure. (Group earnings in the
previous term fell £22,254 short
of that year’s tax-provision
mainly as a result of sub-
sidiary losses.)
The p.c. pref. and ord.
divs. called for little more than
35 p.c. of the profit, which
represented a return of 34.9 p.c.
on paid capital, compared with
17.9 p.c. in 1957 and 2.5, 30 3
and 21.8 p.c. back to 1954.
The board expects to main-
tain a high rate of turnover
in the current term, and if
costs can be kept in check
another prosperous year seems
indicated. The sharemarket
doesn’t appear to have over-
valued the possibilities arising
from sizeable reserves (visible
and otherwise) and a good
average earning-rate, pricing
the £1 paid ords. at 425. 6d. to
return £5 17s. Bd. p.c. from a
12| p.c. distribution.
Capital-losses arising from
the sale of the ice-cream sub-
sidiaries’ assets to Peters Ice
Cream (Vic.), Ltd., and Tas-
manian Milk Co. Pty. were
almost completely offset last
term by a £34,351 profit on
the sale of fixed assets and
liquidation of the dehydrated-
foods offshoot, the total addi-
tion to reserves amounting to a
pleasing £153,159.
A relatively small (£7722) net
outlay on fixed assets left the
way clear for a substantial im-
provement in working-capital
(up £143,637 at £334,951), the
consolidated balance - sheet
revealing a healthy financial
set-up. Freeholds are in the


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Establiihed ISOS in Reign of
George HI.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England)
K.B.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collintf Street, Melbourne
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
accounts at 1923 valuation with
additions at cost less depreci-
ation, and plant, etc., at cost
less depreciation:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1956 1957. 1958.
Pref. . . 100,000 100.000 100,000
Ord. .. 200,000 200,000 200,000
Reserves . 523,036 508,211 661,370
Overdraft 103,629 22,686 3,638
Mortgage 59,550 57,750
Creditors,
etc. . . 216,200 179,762 191,619
Staff fund 36,260 30,298 30,936
Tax provi-
sion .. 56,130 102,349 15,661
Final divs. 7,500 22,500 22,500
1.242.755 1,225,356 1,283,474
Freeholds 320,635 323,585 331,600
Plant, etc. 409,910 310,182 309,889
Stocks .. 196,235 192,961 208,271
Debtors . . 268,903 278,339 308,055
Cash, etc. 4,679 77,896 83,266
Goodwill . 42,393 42,393 42,393
1.242.755 1,225,356 1,283,474
Stock (up £15,310), book-debts
(up £11,857) and creditors (up
£11,857) increased with the
brisker trading tempo, but the
co. was able to cut back the
overdaft by £19,048 and still
finish the term with an extra
£5370 in cash.
The prefs. participate in any
surplus on liquidation, book-
values at April 24 last showing
645. Id. in net tangible assets
for each £ of paid capital.
Mortlock Bros., Ltd.
'T'urnover of the Westrafian
tractor- and car-distributor,
Mortlock Bros., Ltd., moved in
the right direction last term
for the first time in three years,
a higher return from the
tractor department helping to
halt the drift in net earnings.
Mortlock Bros. recently
transferred its W.A. franchise
for Ferguson tractors to
Massey-Ferguson (Australia),
Ltd., for a consideration of
£19,000 and now acts as a
Massey-Ferguson dealer in
Perth and nearby country
areas. The co. also handles
Standard cars and commercial
vehicles, and last term took-ou
the local agency for the
German-made Goggomobil and
appointment as a distributor of
Willys Jeeps, etc. Other lines
include agricultural equipment,
motor-cycles and -scooters and
light petrol-engines.
The public first obtained a
share-interest in the 40-year-
old co. in 1950, when 91,000
10s. ords were offered at a
premium of 11s. a share, a one-
for-two bonus-issue in the
following year and small issues
in exchange for fixed assets
taking paid capital to £228,978,
of which £49,060 carries a fixed
6+ p.c. The scrip is listed on
Perth and Melbourne 'Changes.
Although the lush profits won
during the post-war boom in
new-car retailing came to a
sudden end in 1956, the div.-
rate (reduced from 30 p.c. in
that year) has been held at 20
p.c. in each of the last three
terms, a small proportion of
the distribution coming from
reserves in the 1956 and 1957
terms.
A new service-station,
opened in Perth last Sep-
tember, attracted a greater
volume of servicing - work
during the year to May 31 last,
but the directors report “little
change” in the results obtained
from the various departments—■
other than the tractor depart-
ment. Nevertheless, “trading-
profit” was £7959 fatter at
£58,363 and with £3693 (up
£2096) from investments and
a £1092 div. from a subsidiary
{nil previous term) net profit
rose by £9333 to £40,377.
There was £1205 left for
reserves after payment of pref.
-and ord. divs., a £lO,OOO pro-
vision for long-service leave
coming from the undistributed
profits of previous years:
Re- Re-
May Profit,A Pref. Ord, serves, serves.
31, £ 5 p.c. 30 p.c. £ £
’52 119,395 2,453 51,903 65,039 307,595
’53 127,046 2,453 51,903 72,690 380,285
Share premiums, £1125 .. 381,410
’54 135.747 2,453 53,976 79,818 460,728
’55 110,395 2,453 53,976 53,966 514,694
61p.c. 20p.c.
’56 36,590 3,189 35,984 512,111
Tax underprovided, £133 .. 511,978
’57 31.044 3,189 35,984 503,849
Realisation of Ferguson fran-
chise, £19,000 .. .. 522,849
Tax underprovided, £239 .. 522,610
To provision long - service
leave, £lO,OOO .. .. 512,610
’5B 40,377 3,189 35,983 1,205 513,815
Reckoned after providing
£22,776 (up £1814) for taxation
and £4022 (up £576) for depre-
ciation, earnings covered the
pref. div. and 21.2 p.c. on ord.
capital, an improvement on the
15.4 p.c. and 18.6 p.c. shown
in 1957 and 1956 respectively,
but well below the 68.7 p.c.
average for the three years to
1955.
Holding a smaller share than
it did a few years ago of a
difficult and fiercely competitive
market, the co. is hard-put to
make full use of the financial
fat accumulated in more pro-
sperous times:
Paid .capital— 1957. 1958.
Pref. .. £49,060 £49,060
Ord 179,918 179,918
Reserves .. 603,849 513,815
Creditors .. ~ 54,069 68,625
Hue subsidiary ~ 4,000
I’rov. l.'-s. leav* ~ 10,000
Tax provision ~ 20,962 22,776
Dividends .. 39,173 39,172
£851,031 £883,366
Freeholds „ 239,965 255,964
Leaseholds 29,050 28,730
Plant, etc. .. 25,422 25,557
Stock .. .. 337,468 324,784
Debtors .. .. 171,694 115,977
Advance subsid. .. 54,654
Cash, shares, etc. 47,432 77,700
£851,031 £883,366
Advances totalling £54,654 were
made to subsidiaries during the
year, but, while creditors were
waiting for an extra £14,556
at the end of the term, £30,268
was added to holdings of cash
(£77,700), book-debts falling by
£55,717 and stocks by £12,684.
At £513,815 reserves dwarf paid
capital, the f.-p. 10s. ords.
enjoying a net tangible cover
of 38s. 7d.
The upward trend in new-
car registrations before the
pre-Budget hiatus in sales set-
in—hasn’t been reflected by the
overall turnover of Standard
distributors, and, according to
the Mortlock board, “condi-
tions ahead may continue to
present difficulties.” Still, the
co. has no need and, apparently,
little inclination to hoard
profits and should a cut in the
div.-rate become necessary it
is unlikely to be a severe one.
At 19s. 6d. cum div. (25.) the
10s. ords would give an effective
return of £ll Bs. 7d. p.c. from
a 20 p.c. distribution.
Hill 50 Gold Mine, N.L.
HThe directors of Hill 50 Gold
Mine, N.L., have decided
on a mining programme which,
it is estimated, will show an
average grade of ore to mill of
about lOdwt.. per ton over the
next financial year. The board’s
decision came after an exami-
nation of the various factors
relating to gold-production at
the Hill 50 mine (Mt. Magnet,
W.A.), including the grade of
ore immediately available for
extraction and the effect on
working-costs of planned in-
creases in the tonnages of ore
to be mined and treated in the
future.
During the 12 weeks to July
8 last the co. treated 31,581
(short) tons of ore for 17,3620 z.
fine gold. Recovered grade
averaged lldwt. a ton.
The co. .will pay a final div.
of 4d. a share at the end of
this month, making the total
distribution for the year Is. sd.
a (Is.) share as against Is. lOd.
in the previous term.
Austral Malay Group
"jp xport quotas allocated,
under the International Till
Agreement, to the two operat-
ing members of the Austral
Malay group for the three
months to September 30, were
announced last month. Austral
Amalgamated Tin, Ltd., will
be permitted to sell 293 tons
of tin concentrates during the
period and Pungah Tin Dredg-
ing, Ltd., 38 tons.
In the previous control period
the four Austral Amalgamated
dredges produced 335 tons of
concentrates and the Pungah
dredge 68 tons. The Pungah
dredge was closed-down on
May 26 last.
Stocks of concentrates on
hand at the beginning of the
current quota-period (the third)
were Austral Amalgamated
297 tons and Pungah 69 tons.


HE HAS A
. . . HI T lIE
WEARS A
NEO-
15A UHERE
A r o Pads-
No Springs
The nbo - bar-
ker e acta like
a hand when
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, control
your hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
Write today for Free Literature
Itarrere Hist Hint Mor, fompanv
Dept. 3s, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Vearly Subscription .. 22/6
Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
Mj-OSULUVAN
!p PTYLTD i
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating;
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS i: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
N. Z. Butter Proposals
Wellington, July 28.
'T'he Government’s guaran-
A teed-price proposals for
the coming season have
shocked and dismayed the
dairy industry.
Everyone knew that there
would have to be a cut —a
much bigger cut than the 5 per
cent, at present allowed by
law —but the farmers them-
selves apparently did not
expect anything so drastic as
the plan put forward by the
Government.
The industry was given a
choice. It could have a two-
tier price system. Under this
system the first 10,0001 b. of
butterfat of a farmer’s output
would be paid for at 32d. a
pound and the rest would be
paid for on the basis of market
realisation in London, esti-
mated at 28d. a lb. Under
this scheme the farmer’s
return on 10,0001 b. output
would be cut by 12 per cent.,
on 20,0001 b. output by 17 per
cent., and on 30,0001 b. output
by 18.5 per cent.
Alternatively, the industry
could have a one-price system
based on market realisation
plus a Government advance of
£5 million from the Consoli-
dated Fund. This would give
the farmer a return of about
30d. a pound, which would
represent a cut of more than
15 per cent.
The Dominion dairy con-
ference flatly rejected both
proposals. It spurned the two-
tier system as “unsound in
principle, impossible and im-
practicable of administration
and devoid of equity,” but
indicated that it would con-
tinue to negotiate for a flat-
rate payment.
The Minister of Agriculture,
Mr. Skinner, said that the pro-
posals were put forward
merely as a basis for negotia-
tion. It does not, however,
seem likely that the farmers
will get a great deal more
than they have already been
offered.
£l2-million Debt
The Government expects
that, by the time this season’s
produce is all sold, the indus-
try will owe the Reserve Bank
£l2 million. It estimates that,
at the end of the coming
season, if London realisations
averaged, as expected, 2705.
per cwt. for butter and 170 s.
per cwt. for cheese, and if the
guaranteed price remained as
at present, the industry would
be another £15.5 million in
the red at the Reserve Bank
—a total of £27.5 million.
“That is a sum far too great
to be seriously contemplated
by the Government,” Mr.
Skinner told the dairy con-
ference. He emphasised that,
if the industry’s debt to the
Government reached such
proportions, there would be
little likelihood of repayment.
N.Z. would then be accused
by its competitors of sub-
sidising its dairy industry.
“We would have to answer
the same charges of dumping
that we ourselves made against
other countries earlier this
year.”
The Government is willing
to let the industry remain in
debt to the Reserve Bank to
the extent of £l2 million, and
it is willing to advance it
another £5 million of the tax-
payers’ money. That, at
present, is as far as it will go.
Industry spokesmen dispute
the Government’s estimate that
the loss on the present season’s
produce will reach £l2 mil-
lion. They say that, on today’s
ruling prices, it will be only
about £9,100,000. They also
claim that savings in consumer
subsidies, normally paid to
keep down the price of butter
and milk on the local market,
would recoup for the Govern-
ment a large part of the £5-
million advance which it has
offered.
Guarantee Finished?
Whatever happens, it seems
that the fundamental principle
of a guaranteed price based
on costs, which has operated
since 1936, is finished. What
the Government is now offer-
ing is a price based on market
realisation.
The fact is that the whole
idea of a guaranteed price
based on costs was always
preposterous. The most that
any price scheme can do over
any long period is to smooth
out variations in export prices.
That was obvious long ago.
The farmers must to a great
extent blame themselves for
their present plight. They
fought for far too high a price,
far too long, and thus ran-
down their reserves when they
should have been conserving
them.
They have been living in a
fool’s paradise. Now they
must face reality. The days
of high dairy prices in the
United Kingdom are gone.
Farmers just cannot expect the
rest of the community to
maintain their reward inde-
finitely at an artificial level.
Those who paid a reason-
able price for their land will
make-out all right. Those who
have paid inflated prices will
be hard put to it to make
ends meet. This underlines one
of the obvious fallacies of the
guarantee system as it has
operated in the past. Is it
reasonable that farmers should
be able to buy land at any
old price and then be guaran-
teed their costs? Obviously
not.
Costs and the Budget
The dairy industry, however,
does have a reasonable com-
plaint. It is a complaint shared
by many other sections. The
Government has done nothing
to help reduce costs. In fact,
the latest Budget will do just
the opposite.
The chairman of the Dairy
Board, Mr. A. Linton, discus-
sing this aspect of the situation,
said: “I am disappointed with
the failure of the Government
through the Budget to take a
truly national outlook which
would help to readjust our
cost level within this country
and do something practical
toward maintaining the com-
petitive position of our primary
industries in the markets of the
world.”
Speaking in the Budget
debate, during which his
Government survived a no-
confidence motion by a
majority of one vote, the
Prime Minister, Mr. Nash,
admitted that he had made a
mistake in an election-eve
broadcast when he promised
that Labor, if elected, would
not change the basis of taxa-
tion. He was referring to the
25 per cent, rebate, with a
maximum of £75, incorporated
into the Paye tax-tables. This
rebate is now to be cancelled.
Mr. Nash has admitted his
error. But that does not
absolve him from blame. He
made a promise which prob-
ably had a material effect on
the result of the election. He
had no excuse for making it,
as he was warned time and
time again that the country
could not afford the lavish
hand-outs he was offering. Is
it too much to hope that this
unfortunate incident may help
to teach a gullible public that
no Government can give it
something for nothing?


Hyena-
Bait
By CLIVE BARRY
From her Majesty’s cells
1 borrowed three
criminals, gave them one
axe each and took them
to the brewery.
By the brewery was a dead
elephant. In the dry furrow
near the dead elephant was a
light luxury car. Inside the
light luxury, struggling, was the
District Commissioner.
“Shift into reverse, sir,” I
advised him.
“What’s that, eh?” he asked.
The criminals ascended the
elephant and chopped at its
eye.
“Shift left ; click left; then
back,” I said, but he shifted
right.
To myself I thought: His
brain is back to front. I shall
give him mirror-instructions so
he does the opposite.
Aloud I said: “Shift right;
click right; then forward.”
“Are you raving, eh?”' he
inquired in a tonal pattern
which means Australians are
all the flaming same.
The criminals extracted one
tusk and incised deeply toward
the other. 1 told about two-
hundred spectators to bring
kerosene-tins from the market.
I got into that light luxury
car, displaced the District
Commissioner slightly and
backed the car free of the dry
furrow.
“You are clever with cars,”
said the District Commissioner.
“My word, sir,” I said.
“I’ll thank you,” he added,
“to leave my car immediately
and never try to humiliate me
in public again.”
1 left his car immediately.
Too late I noticed his suffused
face and eyeballs like peeled
pomegranates.
“Sorry, sir,” I said.
“You’ll pardon my saying
so,” he howled, racing the
engine, “but most Australians
are show-offs to me.”
“You’ll pardon me saying
so,” I said, “but most Aus-
tralians are unknown to you.”
He jumped his car away, and
when the dust settled 1 was
inside the brewery.
T thrust an eighth-florin at
A the brewer and he filled a
half-calabash with soapy solu-
tion from a gleaming yellow
gourd. I drank the warm soap
and survived an abdominal
spasm.
“Brewer,” I said to the
brewer, “an excellent brew.”
“Truly,” he told me, “it is
so.”
He was as black as paint.
The brew was warm millet-
ferment audibly seething in a
wooden pan. Not much
alcoholic content, but plenty of
virus.
The brewer smiled a smile
like edible coconut. “Ice is
supplied,” he said, extending
the orange palm of his hand,
“to people I like.”
“Likeable yourself,” I told
him.
“Gracious stranger,” he said.
“Splendid host,” I added. I
put my only florin in his
orange palm and he receded
from the foreground.
The criminals brought both
tusks into the brewery and I
stood them half-calabashes all
round during the brewer’s
absence. The tusks were black
with blood and dust. At £1
a pound they represented weeks
of free brandy on the club fund.
People shored -up the
elephant’s throat like a mintf
and went inside to carve. The
tongue came out as big as a
bullock.
The brewer reappeared with
chipped ice in a clay vase and
we rattled the chips round in
many calabashes, for in that
market a florin went a long
way.
People cut diagonals across
the tops of kerosene-tins and
bent the murderous flanges half
inward. Then they put ele-
phant meat inside those tins
and left them along the dry
furrow to catch hyenas.
The brewery had no walls,
but in the splash of shadow
under grass thatch we were all
but invisible. As the sun rose
higher my tiff with the District
Commissioner shrivelled in
importance.
HThe sun was drying the world
up. At equatorial noon in
that shanty market in the deep
dust-crater of our dead volcano,
heat - ripples eddied and
flickered like disembodied souis
in a tribal dance. Immersed in
the pool of heat was a tribal
policeman in khaki tarboosh
and distended ear-lobes folded
in the regimental manner.
Upon the cess-barrier which
guarded the market he painted
bright Arabic characters which
the sun quietly cracked
and peeled after him. The
characters said: Anyone abroad
at night will be shot.
It was the period when
rebellion covered the Jamskoni
Mountains and police protected
citizens by shooting them.
Under crackling iron roofs
on the club veranda colonial
officials sat and decayed pain-
lessly in wickerwork chairs.
Faces like crumpled dripping


a wasp
showed
the way
mflimi
Hill
HIfMfUHIIIII
Minimum
mmiiimiin
mnmmiuimm
m mm
SSC
m
,
A wasp led to a spark of genius that changed the
centuries-old process of making paper from straw and
rags. While watching a wasp chewing wood to a pulp to
build a nest, an eigthteenth century naturalist
Rene Antoine Reaumur concluded that paper could
be made from wood. It was not long before his theory
became fact, a development that changed the whole
course of the paper industry.
Another discovery that changed paper-making techniques
arose from intense research carried out by Australian
scientists in the 1920’s and ’3o’s. It was discovered that
pulps made from eucalypt timbers were suitable for
kraft pulping that is, to provide pulp for tough,
durable wrapping papers.
A.P.M. Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd. are
today the largest makers of wrapping papers and paper-
boards in Australia with a capacity of some 300 tons
of pulp a day and 260,000 tons of paper and paper-
board per year. This great industry provides Australia-
wide employment for thousands of Australian workers,
helps develop Australia’s natural resources through
forestry development, and contributes to our rapidly-
growing industrial strength.
ADM
Buy Australian Made
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman Street, South Melbourne.
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale, Broadford in Victoria;
Botany, N.S.W.; Petrie, Queensland and Bayswater, W.A.
“Sales Offices in all State Capitals”.


and brains to match. Every
club is the flaming same.
After lonely lunch I poured
boiling water down the barrel
of the .606, pulled it through
dry, and returned it to the
District Commissioner.
“I must thank you,” he said,
“for stopping that elephant.”
“Thank you, sir,” I said.
He coughed at his wall-map.
“I have a man,” he said, “I
want you to meet.”
“Fine, sir,” I said quickly.
“He is disguised as a rebel,”
he explained. “You’ll find him
on the Jamskoni Mountains.”
“Impossible,” I cried.
“You’ll get a decoration.”
“Make it brandy,” I said.
The District Commissioner
frowned at the thin red road-
line on his wall map.
“Half-a-case,” he said. “We’ll
charge the club fund. Jolly
good luck.”
“Cheers,” I said.
The thin red twisted out into
rebel territory high onto the
Jamskoni Mountains. The
District Commissioner seized a
map-pin and drove it savagely
into the twisting red as though
skewering the entrails of a
rebel.
“There,” he told me, “you
will find our spy.”
“Quite,” I gulped.
“Signal me what he telis
you.”
“Yes, sir,” I mumbled.
“I’ll remove your pin if you
get back,” he promised coolly.
He extended his arm and I
handed him a specimen of my
dysentry on his moist palm.
“Shall I take the armored
car, sir?”
“Certainly not. It breaks-
down every few miles.”
Thriving out into rebel
territory high onto the
Jamskoni Mountains, I found
our spy speared to a bend in
the lava-red road. He told me
nothing.
As though testing the valve
of a leaky tyre, I dipped a
finger under my tongue and
stretched a film of saliva across
his nostrils, but no bubble
formed. Then I stacked him
comfortably in under the
canopy of my vehicle.
In the heightened atmosphere
my vehicle gasped for oxygen.
While backing up to turn about
I stalled on the edge of the
mountainside. Then the starter
failed, so I looked under the
bonnet and as usual I saw noth-
ing but chaos. In the clips under
the dash where a starting-
handle should be there was
only a Patchett-gun.
By radio I signalled the
District Commissioner and he
told me it was all jolly bad luck.
On the edge of the mountain-
side I jacked up one back-wheel
and spun it hard with a round-
spanner 'on it for a handle.
While that wheel revolved I
sprang into the vehicle,
switched on the ignition, shifted
into four-wheel reverse by
mistake, and let in the clutch.
The engine seized. Then on
the rebound it fired perfectly.
The vehicle leapt backward
off the road down the
mountainside. Horrified, I
watched habit in my toe
depressing the accelerator. The
vehicle swerved, slid, twitched,
“Actually it's basically the sack-look, madam , only in
this case it's a full sack."
and stopped. Sudden silence and
flurried dust. A solitary animal
started up and pounded away.
Elephant? Rhino? No. Just
my own heavy heart.
Cloaked in sump-oil my shorts
clung like newly cut gazelle
skins. I tore off my shirt to
dab at broken flesh and
abrasions. I lay below the
vehicle in an oily bog. One
boot was missing. My nose
was broken.
Overhead the vehicle door
waved down from horizontal
hinges. I switched off ignition
by reaching up through the
steering-wheel.
Black-cotton soil was loose
and hot. Using my hands like
shovels I dug a long deep groove
for the uppermost wheels so
the vehicle could be driven out
almost vertical. Shovelling
smudged my limbs as black as
cooking-pots and sweating
added polish. After fading a
little I reclined.
Under unfiltered sunlight the
skin-crust of sweat-oil blood
and black dust set like tar and
shrank so that the pain of
having every hair plucked woke
me. When at last I arose inky
crumbs flaked off at the joints.
By late afternoon I had the
vehicle back on the road with
the engine revving. Within
five miles of returning safely
home I ran into half-a-dozen
ugly black men with weapons
obviously concealed under
their ragged oilskins.
The leader waved me down,
but I drove hard to crush him
and as he leapt aside I caught
his voice in the windstream:
“I say, old man . . .”
It was the District Commis-
sioner. I stopped. The others
were poorly disguised dys-
peptics from the club Veranda.
Pommies are all the flaming
same. Unmistakable.
“Hope you don’t mind, eh?”
said the District Commissioner,
“but we were sort of using
you as a sort of diversion.”
“Did you know this man was
dead?” I said severely.
“No,” said the District Com-
missioner. “We expected him
to tell us an exact point to
raid.”
“Jump in,” I said. “I'll take
you home.”
“I’m afraid we shall have
to stay out several days,” said
the District Commissioner.
“In case we can stumble onto
trouble by sheer luck.”
“Mm,” I said.
“But you get back to
hospital. Have your face
doctored and get a bath. You
look as though you have been
swimming in pitch.”
“Yes, sir.” I waited no
longer.
TJeople were lighting paraffin-
A lamps under a chocolate-
box sunset when my vehicle
got back to the cess-barrier. The
elephant’s skeleton showed here
and there through his deflated
hide. He resembled a ruined
goanna fallen among black
ants. Women carried kerosene-
tins of flesh away on their
heads.
When he saw my vehicle the
tribal policeman opened the
cess-barrier. When he saw me
the tribal policeman gestured
with his regimental shotgun.
“Have you a curfew pass?”
he asked in vernacular.
I wanted to shout with im-
patience, but he snicked back
the hammer of his shotgun and
I did not utter. Every woman
in the market giggled.
Stiffly, I climbed down from
the vehicle and the astonished
tribal policeman identified me.
He helped me carry the dead
spy into the hospital morgue,
where at this period he was
always sure of cqmpany.
Fitting him into his preserva-
tion-box was like getting a
frozen kingfish into cold
storage. As I worked, the
brewer leaned into the morgue
over the window-sill.
“Hey, you there, gut-
collector,” he said roughly to
me in vernacular. “Fix this
quickly, for my important
guests are waiting.”
The only covering for my
filthy skin was shredded shorts
like withered monkey-vine. To
save weary explanation I
played the role I was dressed
for.
“ Salaamu, great brewer” —I
mimicked the servility of a
hospital dresser—“what is your
wish?”
He handed me the clay vase
and I filled it with chipped ice
from the nearest corpse.


Gtto Ruff
By
HAL
PORTER
Really, this is all I know
about it.
Otto Ruff and I were
boys together, next-door
neighbors in a country town.
Together, inflexibly faithful,
we collected postage-stamps,
cigarette-cards, marbles, match-
box-tops, everything. Of the
same age, in the same social
stratum, schoolmates, we gave
each other birthday presents,
which our parents paid for, as
unaffectionate gestures to be
duly repaid. We used friendship
shamelessly for separate though
similar ends, tacitly never over-
lapping purchases: if I bought
“The Magnet” he bought “The
Gem”; our possessions were
each other’s.
It was a selfish and satis-
factory arrangement, but so
unemotional that I was not
disturbed when in 1921, at the
age of 16, he went to Mel-
bourne. Besides, at 16, I
was occupied with passions for
people unaware of my
existence, busy with hatred of
my parents and brooding
walks at impossible hours.
The following year I went to
Melbourne. I lodged with an
aunt. Having shed the chrysalis
of parent-haunted provincialism,
I began to acquire amateur
affectations, was conscious of
my slightest gesture, felt myself
under a glass cover. I saw
everything with lopsided clear-
ness and suffered agonies of
embarrassment as I postured
waiting for my enclosure of
glass to dissolve.
My aunt, recently returned
from Europe, was Modern. Her
bobbed hair had a chic that
made it startling even among
other bobs then beginning to
appear. Openly, with flourishes
of perverted femininity, she
smoked tinted and scented
cigarettes. Regularly she held
what she called a the-dansant.
They were faintly unreal, these
gatherings which twilight
seemed always to envelop.
There was a fire of colorless
flame that wavered without
warmth as though imitation;
there were bowls of Frau Karl
Drushki roses, every petal in
place; violin and piano
drawled “Smile a While” or
“The Midnight Waltz.”
The women wore cable
bangles with little locks to
which the keys were lost. I
do not remember the men.
Somewhere sat a Gaby Deslys
doll. I invariably lounged,
glass-encased, by the cool fire,
my arm lying by the clock of
bisque porcelain.
Once, suddenly, Otto Ruff
was there. Our glances crossed,
uncrossed ; we said, “Oh, hello
you,” and no more. I had no
more to say. Aware of a
pimple by my nose I watched
him and the woman who had
brought him.
She was about 26—almost
middle - aged! With her
facile sang-froid, her strictness
of outline, the harsh black of
her rigorous bob, she was the
focus of veiled attention.
Someone whispered, “Moira
Morrisey! She drugs. That
poor boy.”
Poor boy! The ease with
which he smoked cigarettes
and smelled a rose, the control
he had of his flexible body, the
vivid emptiness of his remarks,
were to me miraculous. He
and the woman, each holding
a lighted cigarette, eyes half-
shut, executed a tango, a series
of passionless posturings that
displayed nothing except that
they had danced beyond the
stage of enjoying each other’s
steps. There they moved and
there I leaned watching until
he and his partner seemed to
dilate, lengthen, tango with un-
relenting languor across a
calendar of the-dansants.
■Cor a while I tried to imitate
A Otto Ruff’s poise while
making no move towards a
meeting. Gradually, I forgot
him.
Then, unaware of the
machinery of liberation or the
moment of release, I was out
of my glass cage; I plunged
hilariously to the year 1927 and
my next encounter with Otto
Ruff. Arriving late at some
galloping Jazz-age party, I
found him Charlestoning
abandonedly against a tempest
of Eton-cropped and shingled
women in inadequate sacks of
jade-green patterned a la
Tutankhamen.
Flushed, younger-looking at
22 than at 16, he was
the incarnation of the time
—hideously prancing and
portentous upon a volatile
garbage-heap of silken legs,
feathered garters, gin-bottles,
garish roadsters, lips un-
naturally cupid-bowed. I per-
ceived little unusual about him
except that I, starting from the
same year and street as he,
had reached that party, that
drunkenness, that night still
almost wholly my dull self,
whereas he was easily imagined
as the force behind this stream
cascading impenitently over the
precipice of time.
We yelled with frantic
amiability above the Prince of
Wales’s favorite “I Wonder
Where my Baby is Tonight,”
devising some indefinite plan
for meeting. It was nine years
before we met again, as
accidentally as ever.
In 1936, 28 Collins StreeE
was popular with radio-actors,
women-journalists and metro-
politan high-school teachers ;
each room contained the
Penguin Farewell to Arms, the
portable typewriter, the damp
loofah, the bottle of Scotch.
One day I arrived at the bath-
room at the same time as
someone tall in a Japanese
(Continued on page 56)


check-strap brackets are
welded to the inner pressing.
Inner and outer sections are
brought together in a jig and
spotwelded.
After buffing and cleaning
and the fitting of hinges, door-
locks and remote controls, the
completed doors are inspected
and placed on an overhead con-
veyer which transports them to
the final assembly-line.
The roof is also placed in a
jig after imperfections have
been rectified. Back-light rein-
forcement, the parcel-shelf and
the facia-panel are next welded
into position. This assembly
is then carried by overhead
conveyer to the sub-assembly
production-line.
Meanwhile the front-end
assembly, which carries the
grille, and the mudguards are
brought together and assembled
in a jig and buffed-up for
roughness, then finally metal-
finished.
Both left- and right-hand
sides of the body, including the
cantrail quarter-panels, and the
centre and front pillars are
assembled in sections on a
moving jig. When complete
the assembly is welded to the
floor-chassis and the roof-top,
which has been lowered into
position by an overhead
transfer.
An overhead transfer then
picks up the shell and conveys
it to the final production-line,
where, with the aid of a jig,
the front-end assembly con-
sisting of near- and off-side
mudguards and grille, are
bolted into position.
In the next operation the
doors, positioned along the
track by overhead conveyer,
are bolted on, both near-side
and off-side front and rear.
Additions, including the
boot-lid and bonnet, are made
to the body-shell at various
points along the 400 ft. line.
Towards the end of the line
the shell is metal-finished and
inspected for any rectification
that may be necessary.
At the end of the track the
shell is picked-up by overhead
conveyer and transported via
an overhead bridge to the car-
assembly building for the start
of its journey through the
Rotodip, paint-shop and final
car-assembly lines.
The Paint Story
The finish on a B.M.C. car
is seven skins deep —the result
of the world’s newest technique
in automobile-painting. It
involves two techniques never
used before in Australia.
Housed in a building 400 ft.
long, the new Rotodip plant
cleans, phosphates and primes
the car body by rotational
dipping in a seven-stage process.
First, the body is dipped in
a hot cleanser, scouring away
particles of dirt and grease.
Then in a cold-rinse, a hot
phosphate dip, another hot-
rinse and a weak acid hot-rinse.
The prepared body then
enters a drying-oven, is dipped
in primer and finally baked.
During this processing the
vehicle is completely sub-
merged, so that the primer,
cleansers and rinsers penetrate
everywhere. This is not
possible by any other means.
The aim of this complicated
process is to render the body
rustproof and clean—ready for
the automatic paint-spraying
machines. This is the first of
the new techniques introduced
to Australia by B.M.C.
The phosphate-rustproofing,
sealed before the application of
the primer and finishing coats,
prevents the danger of “rust-
creeping.”
Now the body goes on to
the B.M.C. paint-shop where
sound-deadening material is
applied to the underside of the
body. That done, a coat of
primer-surfacer is sprayed on
hot by the automatic spraying
machine and baked. One coat
applied hot is the equal of two
coats applied cold. The body
is then rubbed-down and dried
in an oven at a controlled
temperature.
When the drying is com-
pleted a coat of sealer is
sprayed on the body, then it is
baked again, rubbed-down,
wiped-over and made ready to
enter the enamelling-booth.
For monotone bodies, two
coats of enamel are applied.
For duotone, one color (two
coats) goes on in the mono-
tone booth, is baked, and then
the color is masked and the
body enters the duotone booth
and is sprayed with the second
color, two coats, before being
baked yet again.
Finally the body emerges,
completed painted with its
seven skins. The finish is a
high-gloss baked-enamel, and
the high temperature ensures
a hard, durable finish.
These are the skins that
cover the car: phosphate,
primer, surfacer (two coats),
sealer and enamel (two coats).
Car-assembly
When the car-body leaves the
paint-shop it is passed into a
marshalling section, or
“sequencing” area, where the
flow of body-shells to the final
assembly-lines is controlled.
This control is vitally im-
portant, because body-color
combinations must match wheel
and trim colors at their point
of rendezvous on the assembly-
lines.
Two assembly-lines, each
nearly 400 ft. long, and two
engine- and suspension-lines of
similar length are needed to
convert the painted body-shell
into a completed vehicle.
The shell is picked up in the
sequencing area and transferred
to the first trim-line, where it
is lowered onto pins which
hold the body on the con-
tinuously moving assembly-
track.
Overhead conveyers posi-
tion a components-rack behind
each shell as it joins the line.
The rack contains everything
except trim, window-glasses,
petrol-tank, steering-rack and
bumper-bars. These items join
the trim assembly-lines at
appropriate points during the
body’s journey.
At the end of the line the
growing shell is picked-up by
an overhead conveyer and
transferred diagonally to the
beginning of the final assembly-
lines. By the time the body
meets this line, the engine,
front - wheel suspension-
assembly, rear-end differential
spring-assembly and torsion-
bars are mounted on the track,
so that everything is exactly
positioned when the shell is
lowered onto its positioning
pins.
First task is the bolting of
spring-shackles and front-end
suspension swivel-pins at the
bottom. The torsion-bar i 9
inserted and, with the aid of a
jig-bar, the swivel-pin is
brought up and locked into its
road position. The assembly
is then checked with a wheel-
aligner.
At the same time the engine
is bolted into position, followed
by the inlet and exhaust mani-
folds, carburettor and other
components. All controls are
then attached at their various
points.
The vehicle, when complete,
is driven off the line onto a set
of heavy rollers which are
rotated by the rear wheels of
the vehicle. During this test a
number of checks are made,
including all electrical circuits,
oil-pressure, and the engine,
gearbox and transmission. Any
fault or deficiency is noted and
the car is then passed through
a water test to ascertain its
weather-proof characteristics.
The Future
New B.M.C. vehicles for
Australia are being planned.
When they will arrive, and what
shape they will take, have not
been disclosed. But it has been
made clear that B.M.C. feels it
knows the light-car business
better than any other, and in
planning future models it will
draw on its experience in this
field. It is also a B.M.C. belief
that simplicity of design and
economy in operation are
among the specifications that
the motoring public itself has
in mind when it thinks of the
ideal Australian car.
When the B.M.C. operations
are solidly established finan-
cially in the Commonwealth it
is intended to invite the Aus-
tralian investing public in as a
partner.
Such a development may be
some time away yet; but the
promise was made unequi-
vocally about two years ago,
and it still stands.


BALD PATCHES
Hair grown secret formula
Sacred Eastern Oils. Rarely
fails. Treats Alopecia. Leading
broadcaster's liair grown after
years of Baldness. Effective
treatment for dandruff (Basic
cause of nearly all hair sick-
ness), and stops falling hair.
My herbal treatment restores
grey hair to original colour.
Not a dye—not injurious, not
obvious. Names given of lead-
ing citizens (with their per-
mission) who gratefully testify.
My treatment used in privacy
of your home.
For free advice write—
MRS. A. EASTON,
Box 5204, G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM.
Season Opens Well
The new racing season got
away to a good start at Rand-
wick on Saturday with an
attendance of 28,500, figures
on a par with the correspond-
ing meeting in 1957. Tote
holdings (win and place) were
£5OOO up on the figures for
last August, when £90,000 went
through. Doubles-tote punting
dropped from £43,000 to
£36,000, but this year quinellas
.were held on six races.
“Odds-on, look-on” once
more proved sound advice, and
in succeeding events. All
Coins, at 10-to-9 on, let
punters down in the Encourage,
and Squander Lad (11-to-8
on) never looked like winning
the main sprint, the Neutral
Bay Handicap, even though he
finished second to Diamond
L Vista.
All Coins had every chance,
as he was with the winner,
Oro Star, in the closing stages
of the Encourage, and he ran
the closest of seconds ; but had
Oro Star not run wide after
entering the straight there
would have been a greater
winning margin. However,
Oro Star was expected to shift
ground, and his rider, Cliff
Clare, was ready for it. In
any case, it was no wonder
that he did run a bit wide —
he had made all the pace over
the mile-and-a-half. Oro Star
has now won five races, all
with Clare in the saddle ; three
of them at Newcastle, two in
succession before his Rand-
wick win.
Diamond Vista was much
too speedy for Squander Lad,
and was well ridden by Stan
Cassidy, who was having his
first ride on the Port Vista
gelding. The winner covered
the six furlongs in 1.10 9/10,
a smart late-winter gallop and
close to the best for Randwick
(1.9 j), made by Mandingos
last October. Diamond Vista
had failed in the Doomben
Ten Thousand and at Warwick
Farm on July 23, but he’s one
of Sydney’s most brilliant gal-
lopers and could continue to
show winning-form. Appren-
tice R. Wilton had Squander
Lad too far back in the early
stages; or maybe Squander
Lad couldn’t gather speed
quick enough to do any better.
Still, in his Rosehill win at
his prior outing he was close
to the leaders most of the way.
The Tait livery, red with
white cap, has been carried by
many Sydney winners over the
years, and the list was added
to when In Love had a runaway
win in the First Three-year-old
Maiden for colts and geldings
at Randwick. With Yarrawin a
scratching, In Love looked a
safe wager ; was going like a
"It's always NEXT week's games that are going
to be terrific .”
winner from the start, and
scored the easiest win of the
afternoon. By Tauber (imp.)
from Loyal Lass, the gelding
is trained at Randwick by Fil
Allotta for D. G. and P. G.
Tait. Tauber’s winning progeny
include Guiditta, Rin Tin and
Gold Stone, in Brisbane, and
Apple Pie in S.A. He himself
won races in England at from
six to eleven furlongs.
Straightlaced, who carried
topweight (8.10) in winning the
A.J.C. Maiden for three-year-
old fillies, is one of F. C. All-
sop’s team —he also won with
Chipperfield three races later.
The filly had to be hard ridden
by N. Sellwood to land the
£BO4 cheque for owners V. C.
Bath and F. L. Bragg. Straight -
laced is by Jambo (imp.) from
Stayput (half-sister to Prelate,
an A.J.C. Doncaster winner,
and to Billposter, a winner in
good company at Randwick).
Though he hadn't raced for
more than seven months.
Chipperfield, in the Second
Maiden Three-year-old for
colts and geldings, was going
like a winner from the star!,
and fairly trotted in from
favorite Caybros and outsider
Huntsman. A Tembu (imp.)
colt from Bethaven (imp.),
Chipperfield, whose family-
lines include Magpie (imp.) and
Law Maker (imp.), could well
become a fair sort of stayer,
• • • •
The Conveyancer, narrow
winner of Doomben’s First
Maiden Handicap last Satur-
day, is a three-year-old geld-
ing by The Magistrate (imp.)
from Garrispear, and on his
breeding coifld develop staying
power, he being related to
Supertello, a winner of the
Ascot (Eng.) Gold Cup, run at
2\ miles, and four other dist-
ance races. The Magistrate is
by Court Martial, who has
sired the winners of upwards
of £50,000 in England.
Second Maiden winner at
Doomben, M’Selle Dior, is by
Melbourne Cup winner Dalray
from Chez Dior by Maytown
from Mary’s Robe by High
Force from that noted mare
of former days Molly’s Robe
by Syce (imp.). Third Maiden
winner was Prince Belvedere,
recently purchased by a Bris-
bane owner after minor plac-
ings in Sydney.
Record times for Australia
in the season just ended in-
cluded Tulloch’s 2.26 9/10
over the Caulfield mile-and-a-
half. Dubbo, at the same
course in February, equalled
the best for 51 furlongs
(1.3 9/10) made the previous
year by Adelina, also at Caul-
field. Livorno in December
equalled Australia’s best for
10 furlongs (2.11), run by
Empire Link at Randwick in
September, 1956. The only
new time for the Randwick
track during the 12 months to
July 31 was the 1.9| for six
furlongs to the credit of Man-
dingos.
The A.J.C.’s annual report
for the 12 months ended July
31 shows a drop in attendance
of 67,600 —all at Randwick and
mostly during the autumn meet-
ing. On the other hand, War-
wick Farm continued to draw
increasing crowds and is
expected to return even better
figures this season. Dropping
of the jackpot tote should help
Randwick, but more variety in
programmes and a cut in the
per cent, tote rake-off
would also be winners. Clubs
should also revert to the ss.
tote-doubles and quinellas,
which women punters, particu-
larly, prefer. Anyway, while
Randwick attendances
dropped, S.T.C. meetings at
Rosehill and Canterbury Park
drew an increase of 50,830, so
the overall picture is a com-
paratively small falling-off.
* * *
—■ In Melbourne, Too
It is hardly possible for a
horse to win a race more easily
than Red Pampas won last
Saturday’s Australian Hurdle.
Jumping effortlessly, the Black
Pampas gelding was at or near
the lead from start to finish of
the two - miles - five - furlongs
journey, and at no stage of the
race did N.Z. hoop Garry
Dulieu have to ask his mount
to do his best.- Indeed, over
the last half-mile Dulieu did
nothing more than give Red
Pampas half-rein. Yet the
gelding coasted over the line
six lengths ahead of Haydon
Day, another four to Orford.
• • • •
Despite the ease with which
he did the job, Red Pampas
ran the distance in 4.521, just
outside Elastin’s race-record,


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
BETWEEN NORMA JOAN PUGH
Petitioner AND REGINALD SYDNEY
PUGH Respondent To REGINALD
SYDNEY PLGH.—TAKE NOTICE that
the aliovenamed NORMA JOAN PUGH
bus commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying
far a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds that you have without just
cause of excuse wilfully deserted her
and without any such cause or excuse
left her continuously so deserted for
three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter
an Appearance to the said suit at the
Office of the Registrar of this
Honorable Court at Canberra in the
said Territory on or before'the second
day of September 1958 and in the
evetst of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time,
the Petitioner may proceed and the
6iii t be heard and determined, your
absence notwithstanding A copy of
the Petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of
charge DATED this first day of
August One thousand nine hundred and
fifty-eight. B. R. GALLEN, Solicitor for
the Petitioner, 8.M.1. Building, Alinga
Street, City, Canberra, A.C.T. —(Sgd.)
M. S. C, JOHNSTON, Deputy Registrar.
4.521. Ridden out, he would
certainly have set new figures.
At the beginning of his fifth
year Red Pampas, owned by
Tasmanian businessman P.
Grant Hay, is as promising a
hurdler as Melbourne has seen
in years. The Australian
Hurdle has been a lucky race
for the family. Grant Hay’s
father won the race in succes-
sive years, 1932 and 1933, with
Lord Darnley and Poidale.
Young Idealist has won at
his last four starts on Mel-
bourne tracks, although in
between he sandwiched an
unsuccessful visit to Adelaide,
and last spring he failed on
Sydney courses. Merit of his
win in the six-furlongs Moon-
dah Plate at Caulfield on
Saturday was the way he forced
himself to the front over the
last couple of strides.
A share of the credit for
Young Idealist’s win in the
Moondah must go to N.Z.
jockey Keith Nuttail, who
showed skill and courage to
find a path for his mount
through the packed field over
the last furlong. This page
has consistently praised Nuttail
since he settled in Melbourne,
and he should finish well up
in the jockeys’ premiership in
this new season.
The chestnut High Peak
gelding White Hills has bene-
fited from his recent spell in
the northern, sunshine at
Doom ben. He has raced twice
since his return —at Bendigo
last Wednesday and at Caul-
field o« Saturday, and won
both races very easily. Many
thought the mile-and-a-half
of last Saturday’s Balaclava
Stakes might trouble him, but
after being near to last early
he swept right around the field
to win easing-up by four
lengths. It was the kind of
deceptive performance that
makes, owners think hopefully
of a Cup win. White Hills is
entered for the Caulfield Cup
and Melbourne Cup, and is
weighted for those races at
7.6 and 7.7. However, it is a
far cry from the Balaclava field
to Cup class.
Last season, in a year when
Victorian three-year-olds were
no match for the best inter-
state youngsters, Gay Saba did
as well as any Victorian colt.
He won the rich Moonee Valley
Stakes and finished second in
the Caulfield Guineas to
Tulloch. Now a four-year-old,
he scored an impressive first-
up win in the first heat of the
mile Mornington Welter at
Caulfield.
Like Young Idealist, Gay
Saba is by Sabaean, who stands
at Masterton (N.Z.). As a
racehorse and a sire Sabaean
is an enigma. He was by Derby
winner Blue Peter from Moon
Priestess, a half-sister to another
Derby winner, Hyperion, and
on breeding should have been
a stayer, and a sire of stayers.
In fact, his only win as a race-
horse was over five furlongs,
and he gets a mixture of
sprinters and stayers. He got
that good stayer Emphatic, but
most of his stock find a mile
as far as they can go.
Stablemate of Sailor’s Guide,
Royal Symbol is a long way
short of “Sailor’s” class, but
he shares this attribute with the
champion: he would not know
how to run a bad race. A con-
sistent placegetter throughout
his career, Royal Symbol had
run seconds at the Valley and
Flemington before his win at
Caulfield in the 10-furlongs
Gardenvale Handicap.. It is a
long time since so many horses
crossed the line almost together,
as happened in the Garden-
vale. Magic Nib, who finished
seventh, was shown in the photo
to be no more than half-a-
length from the winner.
The Australian Steeplechase,
main event at Caulfield this
Saturday, is the longest race
on the Australian calendar.
Decided over 3\ miles, the race
has been a good one for Brian
Smith, peer of present-day
cross-country hoops. He has
won the event five times, includ-
ing last year, when Pedro’s
Pride gave him an armchair
ride. Weight-carrying record
race stands to the credit of
the mighty Redleap, who
lumped 13.12 back in 1892.
• • • •
Discussions on the big chase
are clouded by the doubt at
writing as to whether Pedro’s
Pride will have cast off her
lameness. Last year she won
in a common canter with 12.6.
On Saturday she is asked to
carry 12.11. Fit, she is up to the
task.
For the Australian Steeple:
Pedro’s Pride, 1 ; Redfield, 2 ;
McKenna, 3.
* * *
English Cricket-team
Apart from the last two or
three places the 1958-59
English team practically picked
itself, for the selectors could
hardly go past the 12 or 13
who have constituted the basis
of England’s successful Test
sides at home against South
Africa in 1955, Australia in
1956, West Indies in 1957 and
New Zealand this year. Eng-
land has won all of these
series, in the main very com-
fortably ; in recent years
England has obviously become
again the No. 1 cricketing
country. The team that is
coming to Australia, which
looks strong all round, could
hold on to that rating.
Nine of the players
were here in 1954-55
May, Cowdrey, Bailey,
Evans, Wardle, Tyson, Stat-
ham, Loader and Graveney.
Three of those nine, Bailey,
Evans and Statham, were also
here in 1950-51, while Evans
was here as well in 1946-47 —
the first Englishman to make
four trips since Hammond
(1928-29, ’32-33, ’36-37 and
’46-47). Manager of the team
is Freddie Brown, captain of
the 1950-51 side and the
man perhaps as much respon-
sible as Hutton for putting
English cricket back on its feet.
There are seven “recognised”
batsmen, of whom the two
greatest, on performances to
date, are skipper May and
Colin Cowdrey, the two most
successful batsmen in 1954-55.
Graveney is brilliant when he
gets going, but he has been
most inconsistent, and has had
several “last chances” in
Tests. Left-hand opener
Richardson gave Australia a
fair bit of trouble in 1956.
Another left-hand batsman,
38-year-old Willie Watson,
former Soccer international, in
his first Test against Australia
(the second 1953 Test) helped
to save England from defeat
with a fighting 109, and hence
did his share towards Eng-
land’s winning the Ashes that
year, though he was to be
dropped from the fifth Test—
the one that gave England its
win. Watson played two Tests
against Australia in 1956, and
was discarded ; he entered tour
calculations only at the last
moment. Formerly of York-
shire, now with Leicestershire,
Watson looked like being
chosen when an 18th player
was added in 1954-55, but the
place went to another York-
shire left-hander, Vic. Wilson
—who turned out a failure on
Australian wickets.
If Watson and Richardson
open the batting for England
in the Tests, the most unusual
spectacle could be seen of
two left-arm fastish bowlers,
Davidson and Meckiff, open-
ing the bowling to two left-
hand bats.
The other two batsmen are
Milton, of Gloucester,
and another left-hander, Subba
Row, both more-or-less untried
quantities as far as Test cricket
is concerned —though Milton
scored a century in his first
Test, against N.Z. this year.
Young Cambridge skipper
Dexter (who notched a fine wet-
wicket score against N.Z. in
the fourth Test, after the team
was picked) must be accounted
unlucky—as, in a way, must
Insole, vice-captain on the
tour of South Africa in 1956-
57 ; for Insole was one of the
selectors of the team as well as
being a candidate for selec-
tion.
Actually there are eight
recognised batsmen, for Tievor
Bailey has certainly earned the
title. There’s nothing “untried”
about his batting, as Australian
Test-teams have often learnt
in recent years. Or his bowling
either. It was Bailey who
started England’s, fight back, to
its eventual winning of the
Ashes, in the second 1954-55
Test, when, with England
dismissed for a paltry 154,
Bailey took the first three
wickets (he had 3-33 then) in
Australia’s first innings when
Tyson and Statham could do
no good and Australia looked
set for another big score like
the 600-odd it had made in
Brisbane.
The attack is based on speed
again, as in 1954-55. Tyson and
Statham were the terrors of
the Australian batsmen then,
but this time, though they’ll
no doubt again do their share,
the leader could well be True-
man, the original “Larwood’s
successor” until his place was
usurped in ’54-55 by Tyson.
Trueman was at first expected
to be in the 1954 side, too,
but apparently had not at that
time been “forgiven” by the
England selectors after his


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. NAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White} A. G. Darker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director.
'Phone: BW 8381.
B. J. LANE, Manager.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States .
-
alleged indiscretions on and off
the field in the West Indies in
1953-54. Loader, though un-
successful here, is nevertheless
a mighty fine bowler, who took:
a hat-trick in the 1957 Leeds
Test against the West Indies.
The spinning trio inT9.54-55
were Wardle, Appleyard and
McConnon. While Wardle and
Appleyard played modest —but
useful —roles in the Tests, this
tour's trio, Laker, Lock and
Wardle, look much more
formidable, even though
Laker and Lock may not do
the same amount of damage
as easily here as they’ve been
doing on English wickets,
particularly on Surrey’s own
Oval wicket. In fact, some
of Australia’s likely Test bats-
men were, it is said, more dis-
appointed than relieved at the
earlier news that Laker was
unavailable.
Wardle, who was “sacked”
by his county selectors, is now
“good enough for England but
not good enough for York-
shire.”
Godfrey Evans, at 38, is
apparently still in a wicket-
keeping class of his own —as
he's been for over decade. He
has been provided with a series
of “understudies” on the
various tours, but none of them
has established himself as a
successor. Perhaps the 24-year-
oid Swetman may do so—he
is evidently being groomed as
the successor, for he has been
lifted out of Surrey second XI,
and must be considered to be
the most promising young
’keeper in England. Though
he has played with the Surrey
firsts, he has been kept out of
the regular job by 40-year-old
Arthur Mclntyre, who was here
in 1950-51 and who is still nifty
behind the sticks.
All in all, there should be
some excellent cricket ahead
in representative games in
Australia this season.
* * *
Sundry Sports
There were three “away”
wins, in Saturday’s V.F.L;
round, by Melbourne, Fitzroy
and Essendon, of which Essen-
don's was the most significant.
The Dons, overcoming in. a
great game the stiff hurdle of
Collingwood at Victoria Park,
are in fifth place, alone one
win behind North and, if they
keep winning as they have
been, with a good sort of
chance of ousting North from
the finals. Bssendon gave
’Wood its second successive
defeat, 12.14-11.9. The Dons
have another stiff test this
Saturday, when they’re at home
to Melbourne, which last
Saturday had enough in hand
to beat Hawthorn on narrow
Glenferrie, where the Demons
are seldom really happy,
14.11-12.15. Fitzroy over-
powered Richmond 19.18-
10.8. In the “home” wins
North beat Footscray with a
brilliant last-quarter 11.13-9.8,
South outpointed Geelong in
"Give me a whistle when they're off."
a good game 16.13-14.17, and
Carlton beat St. Kilda
8.11-7.12.
“Bicky”: North Melbourne
star rover “Mick” Aylett
would be about the only foot-
baller jn the V.F.L. who has
an insurance-policy against
possible finger-injury whilst
playing. This is because of
his profession as a dentist.
Aylett, winner of the Tassie
Medal at the recent carnival,
has represented Victoria at
both football and cricket and
is playing the best football of
his career this season.
“Wilkie”: Playing for Clare-
mont (W.A.) seconds football-
team ' recently, 23-year-old
Bevan Fitzgerald had the bad
luck to break his leg in two
places—and he's a “Red-
beret” trooper who has
jumped from planes some 30
times without getting a scratch!
“Abil”: Ararat (Vic.) foot-
ball-club claims as a record in
first-class country football its
16 goals scored in one quarter
v. Warracknabeal recently.
* * *,
In Sydney Rugby League’s
match-of-the-day St. George
clinched the minor premier-
ship when it massacred New-
town 50-19, 12 tries to three;
Saints’ half-back, Bobby Bug-
den, scored three grand tries
and, in all, played a dashing
game. When they’d met earlier
on it was a close 15-13 win
for St. George, but on Satur-
day it was only close for about
the first 15min. North had a
one-point win over improved
Canterbury, 19-18, West took
all its time to beat Balmain
23-15, lowly Parramatta bested
once-mighty South 17-10, and,
on Sunday, Manly, a man
short most of the game, beat
East 12-6.
*\ * *
Reversing their first-round
decision in Sydney’s Rugby
Union, East beat University
18-9—with the help of four
penalty-goals by breakaway
Bruce Galea. Last time they
met Galea had also kicked
four penalties, all East’s points,
and they weren’t enough then.
Manly, still on top of the
table, skittled Parramatta,
37-11, after Parramatta led
11-10 at half-time; Gordon
found Drummoyne tougher
than it expected, T 5-8 ; Rand-
wick comfortably managed
North, 17-9; and St. George
overwhelmed Eastwood 36-5,
with goalkicker Crealy landing
three goals and five penalties.
Last time these two met St.
George whacked Eastwood
27-0, eight tries and a field-goal
from five-eighth Sheriff, with-
out Crealy once raising the
flags from 10 kicks In what
was a virtual final of the
Sydney G.P.S. competition St.
Joseph’s defeated Riverview
6-0. Two penalty-goals were
the only score in a hard, even
game. Joey’s fourth successive
premiership.
* * *
With rounds of 68 and 70
Eric Cremin won the Profes-
sional Purse run in conjunc-
tion with the Killara (Sydney)
Cup. Cremin finished four
strokes ahead of Kel Nagle
and 18-year-old Alan Murray,
who shared second and third
money. The Amateur Cup
went to Jack McCarthy, who
had two rounds of 72.
The Wisemans £lOOO Golf
Tournament, to be played at
the Chamberlain Park (N.Z.)
course early in October, will
draw together some of the
British Commonwealth’s great-
est golfers. Among the invited
are Australians Thomson,
Nagle and Crampton; South
Africans Henning and Player ;
and Welshman Dave Thomas,
runner-up to Thomson in the
British Open. Winner of the
72-hole tourney will bag £4OQ.
* * *
At Sydney Stadium on July
28 Australian welter champion
Billy Todd retained his title by
easily outpointing former
champ. Darby Brown. Brown
did not look anywhere near
top form, and Todd lost only
one round, the ninth. There
has been a series of good welter
fights at Sydney Stadium this
year, including the one on
March 3 in which Todd beat
Billy Stanley to win the title,
and the two between Brown
and Zulu Joe N’Gidi. But
Brown, on his form against
Todd, has slipped since his
fights with N'Gidi; most
likely he’ll now give the game
away.


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony oj Ilony Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £20,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 81 3 1 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy Tales of Rowe Street, by
Margaret Mary Preston. —6733.
Information Sought
What is the legend of Till
Eulenspiegel, the hero of the
Richard Strauss tone-poem men-
tioned in a recent review ?
Till was the rascally hero of a
16th-century German chapbook in
which his practical jokes and scur-
rilous jests are described. He was
a peasant who gulled the towns-
men, and the stories of him all have
a satirical tone. These stories were
translated into many languages,
appealing in England as The Merye
Jestes of a Man Called Howleglass
(c. 1528). It is under that name
(“owlglass” being a literal trans-
lation of hjs surname) that he is
referred to by Ben Jonson and
others.
* * * *
Some details regarding the stone-
fish. Js it as lethal as popularly
supposed ?
It belongs to a small group which
includes some of the most venomous'
fishes known. A common species
in Australian waters / inhabits .coral
reefs, and has a remarkably shaped
head and body, resembling a piece
of eroded stone. It is variably
tinted and marked, so as to appear
like a fragment of rock covered
with marine growth, and is so
difficult to detect when lying per-
fectly still in a coral pool that it
may easily be grasped or trodden
on unawares. Its wrinkled and
warty skin hides needlelike spines,
a prick from which causes intense
agony and may be followed by
convulsions and death. The spines
are provided with venom-glands,
and grooves on each side convey
the poison to the tips.
* * * *
What happened to the Yamato,
the pride of the Japanese Navy, in
World War II?
Jn the early part of the Pacific
war the battleship Yamato, of
64,000 tons and armed with nine
16.9 in. guns, was the flagship of
Admiral Yamamoto, Commander-
in-Chief of the Japanese fleet and
“strong-man” of the Japanese Navy.
As the Admiral’s flagship, Yamato
w'as in the crucial Battle of Midway,
early in 1943, when Japan suffered
heavy losses. On Christmas Day,
1943, Yamato was torpedoed by
a submarine, and had to go in for
repairs, and in October, 1944, when
under Admiral Ozawa off Luzon
Island, was badly damaged in a.
U.S. air-attack.. (Admiral Yama-
moto was killed in April, 1944,
when a bomber in which he was
travelling was shot down near the
Solomons.) On April 6, 1945, after
the Americans had landed on
Okinawa, Yamato, with the light-
cruiser Yahagi and eight destroyers,
and with Admiral Seichi Ito on
the bridge, sailed from Japan to
offer Japan’s last naval challenge.
On April 7, at midday, nearly 400
carrier-borne aircraft attacked and,
though several planes were lost,
the Japanese fleet was almost
destroyed. A torpedo struck
Yamato shortly after two-o’clock,
and she foundered, not long after
Yahagi had been sunk. Admiral
lto went down with the ship.
Death of a Navy, by Andrieu
d'Albas (1957), says: “With
Yamato died the Imperial Navy.”
* * * *
How do I go about tracing my
antecedents ?
Get in touch with the Society
of Australian Genealogists, Lanark
“Next time you Want me to patch a sheet, nurse, have a sterilised THIMBLE ready!”
House, Phillip! Street, Sydney. The
society has a large library , of books
of reference, and in many cases has
found information reaching back
several centuries. The subscription
is modest, and there is no other
fee for searches made in Australia.
In cases of searches made in Eng-
land, the society recommends the
services of a searcher there, and
fees are a matter of arrangement.
m * * *
What did the old /‘trial by
ordeal” entail, and when was it
abolished ?
Used in most primitive communi-
ties, it involved' a direct appeal to
the supernatural, to the judgment
of God. In England, four forms
were used in criminal cases. In the
first, the accused was required to
carry a hot iron for nine steps.
His hand was then sealed-up and
examined on the third day; if it
had festered he was guilty. The
second form was with hot water,
the procedure being similar to that
of the hot-iron ordeal. In Ihe
third form the accused was thrown
into cold water; if he sank, he was
innocent; if he floated, guilty. In
the fourth, accused was made to
swallow a morsel of bread; if it
stuck in his throat he was guilty.
Trial by ordeal was prohibited by
the Council of the Lateran in
1215, and was abolished in England
by an Order in Council of Henry
111 in 1219.
* * * *
Correct method of cleaning and
polishing a turtle-shell ?
As the color of the shell is easily
affected by rough treatment, it
should be worked carefully, with-
out the aid of chemicals.
water will soften it and enable
rough places to be pressed down,
but care must be taken with this
agent. General roughnesses are
rasped or sandpapered down —very
finely towards the last. The main
treatment, which calls for time
and patience, is rubbing with plenty
of raw linseed-oil; a brush or
flannel should be used, followed by
polishing with a silk cloth.
Machine-buffing might be tried, but
is not easy because of the curve
'of the shell; hand-work is best.
*** * .
How can 1 get rid of lime-
encrustation on the outside of paua
shells, to leave the whole shell pure
nacre ?
Wrap the shell in a soft cloth,
leaving the part to be worked on
exposed. Place it in a vice or
wedge it somehow to keep it firm,
saturate with olive oil and, with a
hammer and cold-chisel, gently tap
the encrustations away. As these
shells are fairly plentiful, spoiling
one or two will not matter until
you acquire the knack. As you are
so close to Auckland, suggest you
call on the curator of the museum
there and. ask his advice.
* * • *
Does a British subject have an
insurable interest in the life of the
Queen ?
A British subject attempting to
insure against the death of the
Queen, apart from incurring sus-
picion of being party to a contract
of gaming and wagering, would also
be held to be acting contrary to
public policy. Only a defect of
modern interpretation of statues of
another time prevents it being an
offence under the Treasons Act.
While a British subject is expected
to desire and to use his best efforts
to procure the long life of the
Queen, it is hard to see how, under
present methods of succession, he
would suffer any loss at her death
for which he could be compen-
sated in money—particularly as her
Majesty’s high office is a corpora-
tion sole which in law never dies.
* * * *
Some information on the West
German Federal Law relating to'
the settlement of war-damages?
The General Law on the Con-
sequences of the War, which came
into force on Januhry 1, 1958,
deals with compensation claims not
yet covered by other Federal legis-
lation and arising in the post-war
period (generally after July 31,
1945) against the former German
Reich, including the former Ger-
man State Railways ( Reichsbahn ),
the former German post-office
(Reichspost ), the then State of
Prussia and the former German
State Roadways ( Reichautobahnen ).
Briefly, the law provides for
compensation for claims on loss of


Divorce Notice
IX THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
To ESCOTT WILLIAM HUGHES, late
of Warilla near Lake Illawarra. —TAKE
NOTICE that EDNA FLORENCE
HUGHES has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2371 of 1958 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by 13th October
1958 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from Messrs. CLAYTON,
UTZ & COMPANY, Solicitors, 136 Liver-
pool Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
WRITERS
I Research carried out for Biograph-
ers, Historians, Editors, etc., by
Graduates & Experienced Writers.
Moderate Fee. Box 688, c/o “The
Bulletin,” Sydney, N.S.W.
This World Famous Brand
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of*-*
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT. JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
- •, U- ..
Agencies
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
real-estate, rentals and business
assets, as well'as pension and com-
pensation payments, judgment and
arbitration - award payments. It
further handles compensation for
certain listed pre-war German
bonds, which, if the claims fulfil
all the conditions, will be credited
at-10 per cent, of their lace-value.
Interest will be paid on this sum
at 4 per cent, with effect from
April 1, 1955.
Repayment in respect of the
bonds is to begin on , April 1,
1960, by annual instalments; with
a few exceptions, a period of one
year from the date of coming into
force of the law is allowed for the
lodging of claims. Claims of non-
residents of Germany will be
handled by the Regional Treasury
Office in Cologne; claims on bonds
will be lodged with credit institu-
tions in the Federal Republic and
in Berlin.
Certain types of claims (particu-
larly those concerned with repara-
tions and restitution action) are
to be reserved for separate future
legislation, although some of these,
in cases of great hardship, can be
dealt with under the present law.
• * * *
Is spray-painting a house as
satisfactory as using a brush ?
Yes, but it’s not as easy as it
looks. The nozzle must be kept
moving at an even pace, so the
paint is laid on evenly and not
wasted. Hurried or careless work
can result in a patched appearance:
amateurs are recommended to use
a brush. Less than 401 b. pressure
is suitable for the flat walls of a
house; a little experimenting should
give the pressure which suits the
worker. A pressure of up to 1001 b.
is used on steel bridges, where the
paint has to be forced into angles
and uneven areas.
* * * *
How did the Spitfire and the
Kiityhawk compare with the
Japanese Zero in World War II ?
(1) The Spitfire proved itself, on
the whole, to be superior to the
Zero. In straight-and-level flight
and in a dive the Spitfire was faster
than the Zero, though the latter
could climb faster and was more
manoeuvrable at low speeds. The
Spitfire’s top speed was 365 m.p.h.,
while the Zero’s was between 348
and 358 m.p.h. It was generally
considered unwise for Allied pilots
to “dogfight” with a Zero, and
pilots of Spitfires were advised
against it. A high-speed attack
was recommended, with the pilot
then breaking away by diving or
spiralling until out of attacking-
range, before climbing again for
another high-speed attack. (2) The
Kitty hawk did not perform so well
against the Zero because of its
slower rate of climbing and its
inability to operate at high levels.
It had to be used largely in “hit-
and-miss” attacks—but if it scored
a hit, the Kitty’s .scal. machine-
guns easily broke-up the lightly-
built Zero. The Kittyhawks were
gradually superseded by Lightnings,
Mustangs and Thunderbolts,
though they were later converted
into fighter-bombers, in which role
they performed usefully right up
to the end of the war. (Information
based on the account given in
George Odgers’s Air War Against
Japan, 1943-45.)
Brief Answers
H.P.: ‘lAnd touched nothing that
he did not adorn” is from Samuel
Johnson’s “Epitaph on Goldsmith.”
W.S.M.: Yiddish is the'
language used by Jews in Europe
and America, consisting mainly ot
German (originally from the
Middle Rhine area) with admixture
according to local or individual
usage ot Bako-Slavic words, and
printed in Hebrew characters
T.N.: Orson Welles was born in
1915. His first stage appearance
was with the Gate Theatre, Dublin.
He founded the Mercury Theatre
in 1937, and directed productions
of “Julius Caesar,” “Heartbreak
House” and “Danton’s Death.” As
well as producing, directing and
acting in films since 1940, he has
written, directed and acted in radio
programmes.. ..F.D.C.: The term
“salad days,” meaning one’s youth,
was used by Shakspeare in “Antony
and Cleopatra” (Act. I, Scene 5).
G.L.P.: A quadroon is the
offspring of a halt-caste or mulatto
and a white person, thus represent-
ing three-parts white to one-part
black.'.. .N.V.: It ;s best to burn-
off with a blowlamp; a caustic-
soda-based mixture is not recom-
mended, as it will penetrate the
surface of the timber and is likely
to affect subsequent coats of paint.
C.K.: Difficult to estimate the
value of the stamps without an
expert’s opinion K.D.R.: The
abo. name Winnamolla means
“place (or camp) in valley (or
creek)” A.8.A.: The word “bush-
ranger” apparently originated in
Tasmania. Food was supplied to
the first Tasmanian convict settle-
ments from Sydney. When floods
and droughts interrupted - supplies
convicts were released to “range”
the bush and find food for them-
selves E.R.: The Paul Revere
of the Longfellow poem took part
in the Boston Tea-party (1773) and
became a member of the Boston
Anti-British Society. His midnight
ride to Lexington and Concord
(April, 1775) was to warn the people
of the approach of the British
troops K.G.0.: Astronomically,
winter in Australia begins on June
22, when the sun enters the zodiacal
sign Cancer; meteorologically, •it
begins on June 1 F.D.W.: To
restore faded ink, damp the writing
with very weak vinegar and leave
it for an hour or two; then wash
the paper over with a solution of
prussiate of potash. If the writing
does not appear clear at once,
expose the paper to the air for, a
few hours, keeping it slightly damp.
Y.C.: Tapio is an aboriginal
word meaning “river-bend”
G.M.L.: Yes. In the case Fowler
v. Davidson (Vic. Law Reports 356,
1918) it was ruled that poker was
not a game of chance, being there-
fore a legal game into which the
question of skill does enter
P.T.: The term Sfogato is a musi-
cal indicative (used often by
Chopin) requiring a delicate, almost
ethereal tone for some of his
ornaments and cadenzas... .C.L.E.:
It was Poe who wrote “Sound
loves to revel in a summer night.”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear/ on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pony. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
R.H.: What with the belch-
ing ferries, the smutty rain
a P d f the H^ q v
about a fishs guts nobody can
accuse you ot trying to evade the
grim realities D.E.F.: Verses
too flimsy; but you might be able
to draw joke-blocks R.H JP.:
Leave the girls alone G.M.L.:
Nice enough; but poetry isn’t as
easy as all that M.C.: Yo, ho*
then L.G.: Not quite for publi-
cation, but you could post it to
him C.R.M.: It’s a bit late to
be writing Norse sagas... .G.W.L.:
Direct observation, as in the sea-
poem, is your best bet... .W.R.8.:
Never begin a poem with “Have
you ever?”... .D.M.: Doesn’t add
anything to what’s been said before
about the N.T R.S.W.: Only a
university magazine would print
that one.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight —Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE MIDDLE EAST
A survey by three leading
British weeklies of events
and possibilities in the Middle
East:
Tondon “Time and Tide" •
“In the Security Council and
in broadcasts Moscow has
already declared that ‘imperi-
alist intervention- must cease
„ . c • . TT •
and hat the Soy, et Union
cannot remain indifteienl to
dangerous situations so close
to the Russian border. In this
context dangerous certainly
includes any action by the West
which might limit the ambitions
of Moscow s proteges. The
Soviet s not remaining ‘in-
different could very easily lead,
if not to global war, at least
to a long and difficult struggle
which could hardly be kept
from spreading considerably
beyond the frontiers of
Lebanon. Neither Russia nor
the West wants a world war,
but Russia has no inhibitions
to prevent her from maintain-
ing and profiting from local
wars, as Marxists are doctrin-
ally recommended to do.
“The Israelis have so far kept
calm and said little, but they
could hardly be expected to
remain indifferent to a develop-
ment in which Iraqi forces, and
that means ultimately the forces
of Colonel Nasser, sought to
destroy the last Hashemite
monarchy left,
“Mr. Ben-Gurion has made
it quite clear that, iLihe repre-
sentatives of the United Arab
? e P ublic , were 10 < rium P h in
Jordan, Israel would tegard it
as a threat not merely to her
security but to her existence.
Tnere are many phases and
po Ssib ji ities in this crisis. Thire
; s or ma y be - c j v ij war on the
Euphrates; there may be
rebellion in Jordan or Jordanian
intervention in Iraq ; there is
Israel’s determination to defend
herself, which may mean not
waiting humbly until she is
attacked ; there is the un-
doubted fact of Syrian aggres-
sion against Lebanon and
beyond that lies the ominous
shadow of Russian intervention,
either overt or by way, of
‘volunteers.’
“Out of all*these possibilities
the preservation of Jordan
should be the West’s first con-
cern. The West has at last inter-
vened in a steadily deteriorating
situation, has shown itself
ready to meet force with force.
The necessity for such mterven-
tion, however perilous, is some-
thing which must now he
faced.”
* * *
London “Spectator” : “All
we [the West] have done is to
demonstrate once again that the
West is the implacable enemy
of Arab nationalism. We have
in effect told the Arabs to turn
once more to Moscow. A]sart
from helpjng Russia and
running the risk of a major war,
we have taken possession of
a financial centre that will, as
a result, lose its prosperity, and,
probably, a bankrupt desert
kingdom. Just how this
frenzied activity is meant to
have helped the West is
obscure. Arab nationalism will
be further inflamed and the
position of pro-Western Arabs
further weakened.
“The only way the West can
recover from their blunder will
be to say that as soon as order
“SORRY, GENERAL, CHILDREN NOT ADMITTED TO
THE CLUB.”
is restored we will allow the
U.N. to supervise free elections
throughout the area we have
occupied and that whatever the
results we will abide by them.
But such a suggestion would
mean our regarding the Middle
East as we regard the rest of
the world and no longer look-
ing upon it as an Anglo-
American playground which
can, when it suits us, be turned
into a battlefield. And there is
at present no sign that Western
policy-makers are prepared to
see sense or pay any attention
to facts which do not fit their
preconceived and erroneous
ideas. British and American
policy in the Middle East
during the last few years has
been an unpleasant mixture of
incompetence, inertia, dis-
honesty and violence. We can
only hope that it does not pay
the penalty it deserves.”
* * *
London “Economist ” : “For
Britain, and indeed for the
world, the most important fact
about the landings in Lebanon
and Jordan is that they were
undertaken together with the
Americans, our indispensable
allies and the most powerful
nation in the world. This does
not, of course, mean that the
decision, made only after the
warning of events in Iraq, and
one of the most hideously diffi-
cult decisions to make in
modern history, will therefore
turn out to have been the right
one. Whether it does or not
depends upon the upshot over
the Middle Eastern area, and
beyond it; and the hazards of
these actions are only too plain
to see.
“So far, it should be said
emphatically, this is not
‘anqther Suez.’ Far from it. It
is a legal, and an honest,
response to the appeals of
established Governments
Governments which could not
count on any duly authorised
and adequate United Nations
aid in reaching them in time,
though there may well now
be a move to bring in the U.N.,
acting through the smaller
Powers, as in Sinai, to carry out
a ‘disengagement’ operation.
The truth is that the isolated
Anglo-French adventure at
Suez split the Atlantic alliance,
and so was bound to fail in
its confused purposes. When
Mr. Macmillan said somewhat
wryly that he would almost
prefer to be wrong together
than to be right separately he
was only just misstating a
fundamental truth of Western
policy.
“To be wrong separately, as
Britain and France were in
1956, is probably worst of all;
but much the best course, for
the alliance and for peace, is to
be right together ; and the test
of what the Western Govern-
ments are doing, and are going
to do, in the Middle East is
the inexorable one of facts.
Will the situation that emerges
be better or worse for the
West?
“It seems likely that, unless
the West can reimpose its will
by force and at the heavy cost
of a permanent estrangement
from the Arab peoples, and
from most of the Afro-Asian


NO SINGLE RUM GAN MATCH IT!
RED JACK RUM
o
RED JACK
RIX2»S
BLENDED FROM QUEENSLAND’S
CHOICEST 7-YEAR-OLD
POT-STILL RUMS. NO ’’SINGLE”
RUM CAN MATCH IT
Specially blended by
John Dewar & Sons Ltd., Sydney and
Harbotcle Brown & Co. Pcy. Ltd., Sydney
DWB7
world, the Iraq rebels may
rashly decide to hand their
country and its rich oil-
revenues —over to Nasser, as
the Syiian officers did last
February. The West appears to
have reached a position in
which, with its dwindling band
of old friends collapsing, it has
no course open but to resort
to military measures that invite
still greater dangers.
“It is no sort of argument
against intervention to say that
it. is always and by definition
sinful. No country, even with
the United Nations to look to,
can abjure the use of force;
it was no sin to intervene
against Hitler in 1939 or
against the Communists in
Korea in 1950. Any nation has
the evident right and often the
duty to respond to a call for
help from a weak and
threatened State, and to protect
its citizens and interests by
forceful means if they are being
threatened by forceful means.
The real question is whether
intervention will work.
“It is not enough simply to
argue that ‘we cannot just let
things slide,’ and then plunge
in without heed for all the
consequences. The former
status quo in the Arab world
can no longer be sustained with
only marginal support from the
West.- Is the West, then,
seriously prepared to take the
whole burden on its own
shoulders, to undertake the
permanent propping up of an
inherently unstable situation?
“It is one thing to recognise
the reasons for the protective
steps which the Allies have now
.felt bound to take. It is quite
another to contemplate the cost
and the consequences of any
such indefinite involvement.
The greatest need now is for
a categorical statement of the
aims and limits of the Western
undertaking—with the hope,
which is also the West's abiding
interest, that its peoples and
the'Arabs may not be doomed
to permanent hostility. What
is the policy?”
Atomic information
Swap
British press comment on
the agreement signed in Wash-
ington on the exchange of
atomic information between
Britain and the U.S.:
London “Daily Telegraph” :
“To the layman there is only
one comprehensive sentence in
the White Paper on the Anglo-
American agreement for co-
operation in the uses of atomic
energy for defence purposes.
‘There will,’ it is stated, ‘be
no transfer by either party of
atomic weapons.’ In other
words, Britain will still have to
go ahead with manufacturing
its own atomic armory. Dupli-
cation in production will con-
tinue as before. This much is
made absolutely clear. What is
likely to change, unfortunately,
is far less explicit, except in one
important particular ; . namely
the sale to this country of a
submarine nuclear-propulsion
plant. The British will still
have to make their own sub-
marine. But enabling her to
buy rather than forcing her
to develop the propulsion-plant
for herself will probably have
expedited production by about
three years. This is a welcome
concession.”
The same : “Only time will
show what other advantages
accrue.- In essence the broad
principle of co-operation is all
that has been agreed. How
much Britain will make avail-
able to the United States is
obscure. At first, however, this
country is likely to gain far
more than the Americans, since
in the specific field of nuclear
energy for defence —which is
all that this agreement is about
—they have more to give. But
this one-sidedness may be more
apparent than real. The dis-
tinction between civil and
military information is diffi-
cult to maintain. Both parties,
in short, can reasonably look
forward to reciprocal advan-
tages.”
* * ' #
“Yorkshire Post” : “The aim
is, in President Eisenhower's
own words, ‘to develop a
nuclear-submarine capability in
the British Fleet at the earliest
possible time.’ The immense
value of this step to our own
country needs no emphasis,
since our national survival
depends upon the maintenance
of adequate sea-power. For
our part, we may well be able
to offer our American allies
useful co-operation in build-
ing up a system of submarine-
detection as well as informa-
tion on the employment of the
submarine as a weapon.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian” :
“Britain joined the nuclear club
nearly a year ago, with the
Christmas Island explosion.
She has now been elected to
the executive committee. In
the circumstances, it would be
appropriate if she came sensibly
to recognise that British policies
should complement those of
her allies, not parallel them. It
would not be illogical if the
signing of this agreement were
to lead to a diminution of the
British preoccupation with the
military aspects of atomic
energy.”
• • • •
The same : “Ironically, it is
the success of the British pro-
gramme of development which
seems to have persuaded Con-
gress to amend some of the
restrictive clauses - of the
American Atomic Energy Act
so as to prepare the way for
the new agreement. At is as
if a schoolboy seeking pro-
fessional tuition for his exami-
nations been told that this
was only available to persons
with university degrees. Cer-
tainly the new agreement will
not bring back any of the
money which has been spent
on the duplication of military
development on both sides of
the Atlantic. Neither will its
clauses, which are permissive
in character, remove overnight
the poses of independence
which have grown-up during
the . unhappy period since the
McMahon Act was passed in
the United States.”'
The same: “The terms of
this, American agreement are
widk. They allow collabora-
tion between the two countries
on the design, manufacture
and development of nuclear
bombs and of vehicles which
can carry them. The services
will be able to collaborate on
the tactical and strategic aspects
of planning for nuclear war,
and the Navy will be able to
buy its first atomic submarine,
together with fuel to last 10
years, from an American firm,
Finally, the Atomic Energy
Authority will be able to ask
for some of the abundant
American supplies of enriched
uranium, either to use in
military weapons or in atomic
reactors built essentially for
peaceful purposes. The agree-
ment is thus the first major
fruit of the doctrine of inter-
dependence which Prime
Minister Macmillan brought
back from Bermuda some
months ago.”
* * *
London “Daily Express":
“The United States is giving
only half of what, on any rea-
sonable estimation, she should
give. She is trading her atomic
“know-how’ against Britain’s,
But she insists on retaining con-
trol of the H-bomb warheads
for rockets to be established
in this country, on bases paid
for by British taxpayers. It
means that for five years to
come the final, essential defence
of Britain will be in American
hands, dependent on American
policy.”
* *
London “Daily Mail”:
“What is probable is that
mainly military information
will be bartered. Radar and


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD. *
ESTABLISHED 1812.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON, Manage!.
long-range submarine - detec-
tion, in both of which Britain
may be ahead of America,
could be exchanged against
details of the Nautilus sub-
marine atomic-engine, and so
on. There may be some people
on both sides of the Atlantic
who will object even to such
commonsense arrangements.
Let them remember the new
watchword of ‘interdepen-
dence.’ To give reality to that
slogan is vital to the integrity
and preservation of the Western
world. To claim that it could
have any real meaning while
Britain and Amercia were keep-
ing life-or-death secrets from
one another would be a
mockery.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “This
agreement was brought about
by two things: by the British
success in producing an H-
bomb, and, no less, by Russian
achievements; it is futile to
deny to one’s responsible allies
what the enemy has. The
amendment of the McMahon
Act which made the agreement
possible lets only Britain into
the circle. For the time being
any other candidate must first
duly waste its substance, too,
and produce the goods before
it is let in. If General de
Gaulle wants equality in this
matter he knows what to do,
and there is not much Mr.
Dulles can tell him about this
that is not apparent already.”
West German
Elections
New York “Herald Tribune”
on the result of the voting in
the West German State of
North Rhine-Westphalia it
showed “continuation of
Germany’s most significant
post-war political phe-
nomenon” :
“The most urgent immediate
issue was Chancellor
Adenauer’s proposal to equip
the West German Army with
tactical atomic weapons
which the Social Democrats and
the Free Democrats both
resisted. The good sense of
having Western forces
threatened as they are by
massive conventional armies—
armed with atomic ‘equalisers’
was thus reasserted by the West
German electorate, in spite of
the fear-campaign waged by
the Chancellor’s opponents.
“But there is also a long-
term significance in the North
Rhine-Westphalia election. This
State includes the Ruhr and
other densely populated in-
dustrial centres. It would appear
to be the logical stronghold of
Socialism in West -Germany.
The fact that the Social
Democrats, with the help of
an issue that could arouse
strong passions among the elec •
torate, were not able to pose
a serious threat to the Christian
Democrats indicates that
Socialism is no longer the force
if once was in Europe.
“There have been other signs
of this, in France, Britain and
Italy: But the important point
for the Germans is that they
have not only given their
allegiance to a middle-of-the-
road free-enterprise party but
have to a very large extent
shaken off the strangling effect
of a multi-party system.
“Much of this is owing to the
high respect yvhich Chancellor
Adenauer has won personally
among the West Germans. But
it is to be hoped that the
emergence of a party-system
that enables a Cabinet to
govern, instead of being at the
mercy of splinter-groups and
chance swings of Parliamentary
opinion, may run deeper than
the hold of an individual per-
sonality.”
Russia's Commercial
Airlines
London “Time and Tide”
summary of the Soviet’s
expanding commercial air-
lines :
—London "Daily Mail "
END OF THE LINE.
“The Soviet Union’s drive to
develop her commercial air-
routes is bearing fruit. In
June an agreement was signed
in New Delhi whereby Air
India International and Aero-
flot will operate a direct
weekly air-service between
Delhi and Moscow, and earlier
this year Aeroflot negotiated
an agreement with the German
Lufthansa for ‘mutual recogni-
tion and co-operation.’
“The Soviet airline already
serves 16 capitals in Europe
and Asia, and active negotia-
tions are afoot to extend the
services still further; indeed,
Russia hopes that, in the not-
too-distant future, a direct
trans-ocean service between
Moscow and New York will be
established in co-operation with
Pan American Airlines. She
has also shown interest in
flights to South America and
Africa, two areas of whose
strategic importance she is
fully aware.
“This Soviet determination
to play an increasingly pro-
minent role in world transport-
aviation has two objectives:
the first is to score propaganda
points by showing new Russian
turbo-jet airliners abroad as
evidence of her advanced
technical knowledge. (The
U.S.S.R. has incidentally
offered to sell some of these
airliners to several newly
independent countries.) The
second is the strategic aim of
training ‘civilian’ pilots in fly-
ing routes to all the countries
serviced by Aeroflot.”
Soviet Education
“New York Times” editorial
comment on Soviet education
as seen by “seven leaders in
American higher education”
lately in Russia:
“While critical of the philo-
sophy of Soviet education and
of particular features, such as
the rigidity of curricula, the
report by President Litchfield,
of the University of Pittsburgh,
emphasises that the Soviet
effort in higher education must
‘give very serious pause to any
nation which finds itself in a
competitive position.’
“In the Soviet Union, to use
the report’s words: ‘The
superior student is regarded
as a hero, not as a grind.’ We
[the U.S.] are a much richer
nation than the Soviet Union,
and it will be useful if under-
standing of the Soviet emphasis
on higher education induces
us to increase the allocation of
our resources to our univer-
sities and colleges, so that their
increasingly great needs are
met adequately.
“At the same time, we


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
Hie entertaining, infor-
mative, world-ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
WHY SUFFER FROM
RHEUMATISM 0R ARTHRITIS
Compounded from an old Indian Formula, STRATTONS RHEUMATIC
and ARTHRITIS POWDER contains no harmful drugs, will not affect
the heart and has successfully overcome the most difficult and
obstinate cases when all other treatments have failed. Persons in all
walks of life have found freedom from suffering, and hundreds of
grateful letters from satisfied users have been received by our
Consultant whose Treatment Advice is made available to you
FREE OF CHARGE as part of our Personalised Service which has
revolutionised the treatment of all types of Rheumatism and Arthritis
throughout the Commonwealth.
Four Weeks Treatment complete with Advice and Instructions and a
SPECIAL CONCESSION VOUCHER if your complaint needs further
treatment . . . costs only £1 POST FREE.
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC POWDER Ltd.
■ 9 Barrack St., Perth, W.A. ..
should be wary of giving the
Soviet Union excessive credit
and of ignoring the serious
problems which exist for
Soviet higher education.
“President Litchfield’s report
notes, for example, the ten-
dency to require Soviet
youngsters to work in industry
for two years before entering
college. There seems little
question that this trend is con-
nected with the concern of
Soviet leaders over the dissi-
dent and subversive ideas
which appeared spontaneously
in many Soviet universities
during 1956 and early 1957.
“The show-places, among
Soviet universities, such as
Moscow University, are
impressive indeed, but many
of the less famous institutions
are badly overcrowded and
lack important facilities.”
Russian Book-piracy
Two comments on the
Soviet’s 40 years of “monu-
mental literary piracy”:
Roscoe Drummond in N.Y.
“Herald Tribune”: “What we
fail to appreciate is how much
American culture the Soviets
have been taking. Quite apart
from the unjust economics, it
is an arresting fact that ever
since the revolution Russian
culture has been nourished
from the culture of the West
far more heavily than the West
has been nourished from
Russia —indeed, far more
heavily than most of us realise.
“Since 1917 the Russians
have published a minimum of
2752 books by 218 American
authors in 50 languages of the
Soviet Union for a total print-
ing of almost 80-million copies.
For all of which the Soviets
“RELAX, FOLKS! LIKE SOME OTHER GUY SAID, WAY
BACK, I’M JUST BEING A POLICEMAN.”
recognise no obligation to pay
any American author anything.
“This flood of translation
flows on. This year the Soviet
State Publishing House for
Foreign Literature will take
about 500 books out of
foreign languages, of which
more than half will be Ameri-
can books. The bulk of these
works comes from two main
categories: (a) classics like
Jack London, Mark Twain,
Theodore Dreiser, O. Henry,
and ( b ) technical books by
American scientists.
“But it also includes scores,
perhaps hundreds, of books by
contemporary American
authors, live human-beings
who need to earn their living
and who can do so only by
getting paid for their work.
These include Hemingway
and Steinbeck, Arthur Miller
and John Hersey, short-story
writers like Elick Moll, sagas
like those of Pearl Buck—and
there’s even Mickey Spillane.”
* * *
C. L. Sulzberger in “N.Y.
Times”: “Some authors, not-
ably those with evident Leftist
leanings, have been paid rouble
royalties, which are not con-
vertible into dollars. These
accrue in Soviet banks. Others
have not been paid at all.
“In December, 1955, Boris
Izakov, a Russian man-of-
letters, told me in Moscow he
had translated Ernest Heming-
way’s The Old Man and the
Sea, which was then creating
a stir in Soviet literary circles.
I asked Izakov what benefit
Hemingway was deriving finan-
cially from the tremendous
sales. Was he being ‘paid
royalties in roubles? Were
there any arrangements for
converting such roubles into
dollars?
“Izakov replied that he
admired Hemingway’s writing
immensely. Consequently, ‘as
a matter of personal honor,’
he had arranged for payments
to be made in dollars directly
to the author. This was com-
forting. It was pleasant to
contemplate the fact that
artistic ‘honor’ transcended
ideological gaps.
“Nevertheless, Hemingway
wrote me as recently as
February 27, 1958, from his
home in Cuba: ‘Haven’t
received any dollars or roubles
from The Old Man and the Sea.
Am sure your friend had the
best intention in the world and
maybe an attempt was made
to pay the royalties, but to
the best of my knowledge no
money has been received.’ ”
Various Voices
Field-Marshal Lord Mont-
gomery : “We no longer face
a shooting war in Europe. Why
should the Russians risk anni-
hilation? They have other
plans more subtle and less
dangerous to themselves—but
terribly dangerous for us. The
war we have to face is political,
financial, economic. It is
global and is directed at the
very foundation of our standard
of living and civilisation. We
are not geared to fight such
a war.”
Mr. Diefenbaker : “The free
world must, on a global basis,
launch a new and challenging
policy in the economic field
designed to extend a measure
of prosperity everywhere. The
need is imperative. The forces
of Communism will not wait,
for time is running out.”
Prime Minister Macmillan :
“If we can reach some agree-
ment on disarmament, then
there must be an effective
system of control. Perhaps the
day will come when we can
take the Russian leaders at their
word, but to do so now would
be the negation of responsi-
bility, and the abandonment of
the security of the free world.”


THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
of high-priced Imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
mochines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National'' Rotary Dupli-
cator wi 11 repro«hice
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Builr entireLy in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
w. G. Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
« Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
, Vardon Price Ltd.
• Docket Book. Co. |Ao9t.>
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL, situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A, FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Optometry
“R. 0.” (B. 9/7/’5B) wants
to know the requirements to
practise.optometry in Australia.
Optometrical practice is
regulated by State legislation
throughout Australia, which is
administered by Government
registration-boards. Before an
optometrist can be registered he
must have a recognised diploma
obtained at a university or
college following four or five
years’ study. The standard is
uniformly high in v all States.
In N. S. Wales training is
done at the University of Tech-
nology, entrance requirements
being similar to those necessary
for medicine and dentistry. An
important section of the cur-
riculum is the recognition of
eye-diseases.
Glaucoma is an old disease,
but it is an insidious one which
sometimes escapes detection in
the early stages. This fact Las
long been recognised by the
medical profession as well as by
optometry. Of late years its
seriousness has come more
particularly under notice in
opthalmic circles throughout
the world. This has brought
about intensified research in
the last year or two, and both
medicine and optometry are
addressing themselves to the
problem.
Special post-graduate courses
have recently been given on
glaucoma in order to keep
practitioners abreast of the
latest developments.—T. M.
Foggitt, President, Aus-
tralian Optometrical Associ-
ation.
N.S.W. Timber Industry
Railway freights are again
being held up as the big bug-
bear of the N.S.W. timber in-
dustry, and comparisons are
being made with the freight on
imported Oregon. The com-
parison is unfair, because
N.S.W. hardwoods average
twice the weight of Oregon, and
freights are charged on weight,
not measurement. Further, the
practice appears to be to
assess 1000 super.-feet of
timber as three tons, but black-
butt, the most commonly milled
species on the coast, averages
about 400 ft. to the ton green,
and 480 ft. dried, so the actual
freight figure is generally less
than that claimed by the mer-
chants.
What is really wanted in the
industry is increased efficiency,
“Y’r old man will scalp you for this!”
a need shown by comparison
of output at most ' mills
with the output at American
Oregon mills, even though tech-
niques must be very different.
At any small mill, at least, a
big part of the log goes into the
waste-heap or fire, and few of
these mills have any bench for
worth-while small-dimensional
cutting. Royalty and haulage-
costs have to be met on this
waste and added to the cost of
the timber actually produced.
What is wanted are fewer but
bigger and more efficient mills.
Another thing that would
assist the timber industry is
smaller scantling sections for
buildings advocated by the
C.5.1.R.0. and the N. S.
Wales Forestry Department
Division of Wood Technology.
Local-government authorities,
and some architects, still insist
on one size for framing-timber,
whether it be imported
Oregon or local hardwood, ye£
the latter is of proved greater
strength, so the smaller section
would be just as strong and
considerably cheaper.
Unfortunately the “practical”
man too often refuses to accept
the advice of technologists,
which he terms “just theory.”
These theories are not formed
by guesswork but by careful
tests and painstaking research,
and the conclusions arrived at
can be of great assistance to
even the most practical man. —■
Stanus (N.S.W.).
Our Olympic Team
The matter of financing our
Olympic team has been on my
mind since the Games in Mel-
bourne, when points were
scored by Australians who
would not have been selected
for a trip abroad. The bigger
the team, the more points
and medals we should win, so
our aim should be to send
away as big a team as possible.
The suggestion by “A.E.H.”
(B. 2/7/’5B) is a good one. I
had the idea of harnessing the
enthusiasm of Australians at
the end of the Games to form,
say, an “Olympic Club”—
membership £1 a year, and
entitling members to a distinc-
tive badge and, perhaps, a
quarterly or annual paper
giving main sporting achieve-
ments and records.
This would comfortably
finance a team of likely
winners, and I think something
could still be done. We get
99,000 people to see a club
football-match in Melbourne.
Surely we could get double that
number of Australians to give a
quid a year to support our
sportsmen and -women against
all comers abroad. Ludo
Champ (A.C.T.).
Wild-life Writing
Surely we could do with a
national periodical magazine of
all-out Australian wild-life?
The Bulletin’s “Aborigi-
nalities” pages give a pretty
good idea of the range of
material always on tap, and
the unlimited scope for full-
scale magazine-articles. Apart
from a few semi-technical
journals bearing Governmental
imprints (notably “The Aus-
tralian Museum Magazine,”
published in Sydney) there isn't
one Australian publication that
measures-up to some of the
overseas nature - magazines
displayed on our bookstalls.
I realised a while back how
limited we are in this regard
when, hoping to place a wild-
life story (factual) in the
U.S.A., I asked the American
Information Bureau in Sydney
for a lead to likely publications.
I was given a list of nature-
magazines, all open to free-
lance contributors, and, so far
as I could gather, all run on
commercial lines.
This seems to indicate that
Americans are either greater
nature-lovers than Australians,
or else there’s a mighty good
opportunity going begging.—
Frank Snow (N.S.W.).
Immigration
Student-organisations have
done a service by bringing up
our immigration laws for con-
sideration and discussion;
but youthful enthusiasm needs
watching.
The quota-system in U.S.A.
has not been wholly satisfac-
tory. Anything of that sort
would be hopelessly imprac-
ticable here —as was pointed
out in “Plain English” (B.
16/7/’5B).
The economic reasons for
banning Asiatics have not the


Riiffi in Hie
\
An Australian who has been to Rome before
would not be likely to pass it by. Apart from
everything else it has, there is so much about the
climate that is a reminder of home.
So I paused here briefly, to sense again that
refreshment which is the sure reward of lingering
to look upon this city’s ancient youth.
I found it as lovely as ever under the warmth
of summer. Window boxes were alive with colour,
and the jasmine vines were frosted with flowers
that sent their perfumed whisper across the
evening air.
This is the city from which Caesars made the
might of an empire, and from which they set out
upon a world conquest which finally failed, except
for the culture they left to season future learning.
What appeals to me about Rome is that it is
such a matchless blend. In its ruins of imperial
splendour, in its great cathedrals and galleries, in
the history that has been lived into it for two
thousand years and more, in the elegance it wears,
are to be found the reasons why it has always
drawn to it men of every religion.
Thomas Jefferson came here to soften his
personal sorrow, in between the chapters of his
fame in American affairs. John Keats, the young
Englishman consumed by illness and poetic ardour,
chose it for his last vision of Earth, and died in
a house at the foot of the Spanish Steps.
When a city can compel the love of men who
were born foreign to its soil, leaving in their hearts
the desire ever to return, then it cannot be defined
in streets and stones and fountains. It possesses
something intangible. That is Rome.
same force today as they had
60 or 70 years ago. A reason-
able number of Asians could
be admitted now without
lowering the living-standards of
our wage-earners, because
workers would have to join
unions and be paid at award-
rates, and because employers
would be obliged to observe
our industrial laws. But there
are other things to be con-
sidered.
It is not likely that peasants
and laborers from any part of
Asia would accept and adopt
our culture and be assimilated ;
as were, for instance, our early
German settlers. Religious
bigotry and race antipathy are
stronger in Asia than in Aus-
tralia, and immigrants who
came here in a mood of in-
tolerance of us and of each
other would not be welcomed
and would never be happy.
They would live in insulated
colonies and psychological
ghettos of their own making,
and be an everlasting nuisance.
The same objections do not
apply to Asians of the educated
classes. By excluding them we
are missing an opportunity to
enrich our own culture. I
suggest that we might consider
(as an alternative to “quotas”)
admitting to permanent resi-
dence Asians having special
skills or capital for investment.
Actually, in every part of
Asia, and for many years to
come, both skill and capital
will be so badly needed at
home that probably only a
handful of merchants could be
induced to settle here per-
manently. Their children, born
in Australia and educated in
our schools, could be admitted
to full citizenship without any
disadvantage to us. Full
absorption of these Australian-
born Asians by intermarriage
might be a slow process ; but
would that matter? Largely
because of their own racial
aloofness, Chinese-Australians
are not marrying among the
rest of us very freely ; but they
are pleasant, quiet neighbors
and good citizens, and are
giving no trouble whatever. —
Jas. Macansh (Q.).
A.B.C. Diction
“Acolyte” - (B. 2/7/’5B) is
on the wrong wave-length in
his criticism of the A.B.C.
news-readers. During 25 years’
close association with broad-
casting (most of it in the
A.B.C.’s news-department) I’ve
met many announcers, news-
readers and other broadcasters
(English and Australian), but
none of them came within
target-range of “Acolyte's”
complaint regarding affected
diction.
During that time, too, I have
seen more than one instruction
from A.B.C. headquarters,
advising broadcasters to adopt
a clear and unaffected delivery,
and to take the Concise Oxford
Dictionary as the guide to pro-
nunciation.
That would also seem to be
the policy of the 8.8. C. In
news-sessions in which 8.8. C.
news is followed immediately
by Australian news the sections
are obviously read by two
men, but there is little
difference in their diction.
In fact, anyone not know-
ing the order of the programme
would find difficulty in picking
the English reader from the
Australian.
“Acolyte's” final assertion
about A.B.C. news-readers
“whose affected diction
wouldn’t get past the door of
a commercial station” is
absurd. Evidence in rebuttal
can be found in the fact that
A.B.C. news-sessions, read by
the readers of whom he com-
plains, are taken every day by
commercials in all States. I
have also known of several
A.B.C. men switching over to
jobs with commercials. One in
particular, a former colleague
in Perth, went from the A.B.C.
to a commercial as news-
commentator and acquired a
big following before he finally
retired. — Pip Jok (W.A.).
Migration and the Shadow
The perennial call of poli-
ticians and publicists for a
vigorous immigration policy
always seems to have as its
inherent cliche “populate or
perish” and a permanent back-
ground of dark shadows cast
by the teeming millions of our
“near North.” However
laudable or logical this attitude
might have been a quarter-
century ago, more recent times
have produced political, econo-
mic and social developments
throughout Asia that call for
a readjustment of ideas.
The three Asiatic countries
considered most likely to over-
flow in our direction are China,
Japan and India. Japan has
the densest population—one
that could not possibly be sup-
ported by the country’s own
natural resources—but the
Japanese have shown no inclina-
tion to venture abroad as
settlers, even when facilities
were freely offered, as in
Brazil, where grandiose plans
for mass-migration and settle-
ment produced very negative


results between the two world
wars.
That also applies to India
and China, although groups
of these peoples have found
homes in Africa, certain
Pacific islands and in con-
tiguous lands.
Besides those three countries
there is, of course, Indonesia,
our nearest well-populated
neighbor. Here again emigra-
tion has no place in the life
or outlook of the people. This
is proved by the fact that
although there are great areas
of rich but undeveloped land
in many of the islands that
compose the group, some four
fifths of the total population
is compressed into Java. Pro-
longed efforts by the Dutch
and, later, by the Government
of Indonesia have had little
effect upon this maldistribution
of the population.
So much for the attitudes
of these Asiatic peoples
towards emigration as a relief
from internal congestion. But
even if this aspect is dis-
regarded and some outlet for
the so-called surplus has to be
found, it will most certainly
not be sought in mass-migra-
tion, whether by peaceful or
aggressive means. It will be
found'only in a gradual change
in the economic and social life
of each of these countries.
There is another small coun-
try on the other side of the
globe which has a population
denser than Java and Japan
“Every time We have a ‘ blue ’ he goes and takes it out
on the woodheap."
and which provides a perfect
example of how density can
be overcome by change of
economic activities. That
country is Belgium, which, with
an economy balanced between
primary and secondary indus-
tries, finds no disabilities in
its thickly populated territory,
In China and India today
great changes are afoot that
will transform the economies
of both from primitive agri-
culture to great areas of indus-
trial development, calling for
the absorption of huge masses
of manpower and capital-
goods. Soon these lands will
be seeking markets for their
surplus production of wholly
or partly manufactured goods.
This, in fact, is the only way
in which the population prob-
lem can be overcome in any
country, for mass-migration
could have little or no effect,
even as a short-term palliative.
Australia’s pressing question
today is not the number of
European migrants we can
bring in within the shortest
time, but the rational distri-
bution of the existing popula-
tion. With every shipload of
migrants this problem becomes
aggravated, as these crowd
into the already congested
capital cities, whose popula-
tions are steadily augmented
by drift from the sparsely
peopled hinterland. —F.A.
(N.S.W.).
Hire-purchase
Properly controlled time-
payment, hire-purchase, or any
other sound credit-system is an
invigorating stimulus to com-
fortable living and an inestim-
able boost to business and
industry. Abused, it can be a
menace to our economic and
social structure and an induce-
ment to a vast majority to
spend what they haven’t got
and never hope to have.
Millions of Hindus live their
whole lives hopelessly in debt
to usurers. Are we tending
towards this? In a quest for
investment I inquired of many
firms seeking capital, mostly
debenture-loans. I asked one
firm offering inflated interest at
call how it was possible to pay
such high rates and re-lend at
a profit without exploiting
borrowers. The frank reply
■was: “We do exploit; they ask
for it.”
Unfortunately, this is true.
I have a copy of this company’s
loan-agreement. The unfortu-
nate, victim who signs sells him-
self body and soul. The
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 498
Across
I—Potatoes1 —Potatoes which aren’t cold golfing stroke. (4, 4)
5—A skyscraper to act and think with high purpose. (6)
10— Duped employee brought under control. (5, 2,4)
11 — Try to follow this poet in poetry. (3)
12 — Corseted mother among the chief upholders. (9)
14 — Fiord noise without weakness. (5)
15 — Fit out a European port. (4)
16 — A reason for being becalmed in the middle of a N.S.W.
country town. (10)
20 —Pal hearing it’s got kidney
trouble. (10)
22 —Taxpayer who is proverbially
reluctant? (4)
25 Boozed when backing a base
store. (5)
26 — Artist employees who are all
lofty. (9)
27 A keynote commotion. (3)
28— Letter named love phonetically,
and I take you 1000 disagreeable
vapors. (9) / ,
30 — Most superior if back before
the bird’s home. (6)
31 — Leslie and Private Stevenson in
Cole Porter’s show. (3, 5)
Down
1 — Craft kitty a mother man-
aged. (9)
2 Hint to discolor the fish with
writing fluid. (7)
3 Most rational home for an inter-
state bird? (6)
4 Have now to be altered. (3)
6 Cruel muscular twitch is mourn-
ful. (8)
7 I’m a quid put into a public
enclosure for strays. (7)
8 — Correct death of Emily? (5)
9 Get through a gap in the moun-
tains. (4)
13 —A wedge to sicken service, benefit
or use. (5)
17 — surrounding the foreign
river constellation, otherwise
Idriess. (5)
18 — Ruses if cool sweets are after
painting and sculpture. (9)
19 —They squirm if hers if after a
legal document. (8)
21 —Children are usually glad to
swallow this trite, sentimental
drama on father. (7)
23 — Who claims it’s an obscure
miracle? (7)
24 — Issuing invitations like royalty. (6)
25 Conflict in the heart of a
midget. (5)
26 — The socialists departed. (4)
29 —Employ. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 497


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUKTEfi STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOT (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurance* of every Description,
J. It. H ILL!AMS. General HarMoer.
The Facfs About
Menopause
A lot of harm has been done
by “old wives’ tales.” Needless
fear overwhelms many women
between 40 and 50. August
Reader's Digest gives the facts
which sweep out mental cob-
webs and superstitions about
the “change of life” prove
that misapprehension, not
physical change, is the greater
hazard.
Keep in touch with modern
thought. The Facts About Meno-
pause is just one of 30 engross-
ing and instructive articles
including The Neglected Art of
Being Different, I Fell 18,000 Feet
and Lived, and The Insider: John
Gunther —in August Reader’s
Digest. On sale now at all
newsagents and bookstalls. 2/-.
formidable record of fore-
closures by this firm substanti-
ates this conclusion.
On a tour through the
suburbs I saw eight very large
used-car parks. Not one had
a price-tag on the vehicles
offered. Payments per week
was the fascinating bait which
appears to have hypnotic effect.
Buyers seldom pause to ask the
exact selling-price and assess
the reasonable value ; they are
lured by the apparently low
weekly payments. Nor do they
calculate what proportion of
payment is devoted to capital-
reduction or liquidation. How
many buyers even read a docu-
ment? In their eagerness to
acquire what frequently is only
temporary possession they
merely say: “Where do I
sign?”
A time-payment collector
said lately that in his opinion
95 per cent, of buyers were
honest. I don’t share his
optimism unless the security is
ample. Moreover, a vast
majority of terms-buyers have
scant business knowledge,
although their integrity may
be beyond reproach. They
certainly would not acquire
something which they knew
would be repossessed, but,
because of their inability to
budget or realise the extent to
which they are committing
themselves, the volume of fore-
closures is very formidable and
the finance companies are
seldom the losers.
Today it appears that selling
money is bigger and better
business than selling goods or
commodities. The buyer for
cash is now at a disadvantage,
particularly when buying a new
or even a used car. The
financiers and dealers want a
trade-in and terms. They like
to get it all ways interest
on the new purchase and trade-
in, and a profit on both cars.
The practice in certain other
types of business of offering
unrealistic trade-in prices on
worthless articles gives food for
thought. Apparently selling-
prices and discounts (if any) are
controlled, and trade-in offers
are simply an acknowledgment
of excessive profit-margins.—
Ajax (N.S.W.).
King O’Malley
Dorothy Catts’s account in
her book of how King
O’Malley secured the vital
caucus vote which led to the
establishment of the Common-
wealth Bank certainly doesn’t
agree with what King told me
(B. 4/6/’5B). But both versions
could be correct. Perhaps the
vote was not quite so close
as he said it was; perhaps he
“But I cant hear it ticking.”
needed two votes, and got
them, one by a loan and one
by forgery.
But I should like more details
of the forgery. To type into a
private letter instructions which
constituted a proxy for a party
meeting would present formid-
able difficulties because of
space limitations above the
signature ; and in any case it
would be a rarity in those days
for a Labor member, who was
not a Minister, to type per-
sonal letters or have them
typed, especially when the
member was, as stated in one
review of Dorothy Catts’s
book, on leave-of-absence.
Allowing for some humorous
exaggeration, I found King
O’Malley remarkably faithful
to his anecdotes. Over a
number of years he told me the
same stories more than once
and they always agreed in sub-
stance. Twice he told me how,
as a young cowboy in Texas,
he became “Archbishop” of
the “Water Lily Rock-bound
Church of the Redskin Temple
in the Chickasaw Nation.”
King, seeing possibilities in
the offer of the Mexican
Government to give large tracts
of land free to approved
religious denominations, called
a meeting of cowboys “down
at the road-house.” Two resolu-
tions were adopted unani-
mously and without delay—
one establishing the new
“Church,” and the other
appointing King the first “arch-
bishop.” Properly attested
copies of the resolutions,
together with an application
for land, went to Mexico City.
Needless to say, they got noth-
ing.
In his latter years King
O’Malley’s mind ran more and
more on “the Bank.” He talked
about it; he wrote pamphlets
about it. It became, in fact, a
sort of “King O’Malley’s head”
to him. One day I found him
unusually grave. “When I’m
gone, do you think they’ll
remember me for the Bank?”
he asked wistfully. I lied
boldly; I had to. I couldn't
tell him that in my opinion the
crowd of the future wouldn't
care tuppence who founded it.
I said: “Your name will un-
doubtedly go down to history
as the creator of our great
national bank. Depositors and
borrowers not yet born will
honor your memory. Posterity
never forgets.”
“Thank you, brother,” he
replied.—J. D. Corbett (Vic.).
Lighting Hazards
Complaints about railway-
station lighting (B. 9/7/’5B)
always seem to suggest that
poor lighting is a parsimonious
railway tradition. It is not.
A driver of a through-train
would take hazardous seconds
to recover his night vision if
platform illumination was good
enough for easy reading.
The same reckoning
prompted the Airline Pilots’
Association to object to
the Cumberland County
Council's approval of a drive-in
theatre-site close to one of the
Sydney airport approaches. At
the end of a theatre-session the
massed lights of cars would
affect night vision, and the
movement would create a
psychological hazard for pilots
at an advanced stage of landing
approach.
An “all-or-none” policy
should go with recent
enthusiasm for better street-
lighting. A high-speed run on
a well-lit main-road would
call for a dribbling entry to a
dim side-street. Knowing the
general psychology, it would
be one more driver-discipline
that would go by the board. —■
Acolyte (N.S.W.).


PROOF
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHT’S
ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE
WIRE NAILS
| Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
warn
ip
tf-k
...
BARBED WIRE
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
LYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE ART AND SCIENCE OF MILKING
By W. G. WHITTLESTONE
Tust the other day I was again
J shocked into realising how
often experts lose touch with
reality.
I was talking to a very
learned medical man, and we
got round to the problems of
suckling and the way the
In Holland the use of
string impregnated
with fats distilled
from the paws of cer-
tain animals has
proved a more effec-
tive obstacle to
rabbits than the
strongest fence. Per-
haps as great a
menace to the
grazier's prosperity as
rabbits are the old-
fashioned unhygienic
methods of stock
management. One
method which is
costly in lamb produc-
tion is the use of cut-
ting appliances for
marking and tailing.
Modern Elastrator
Rubber Rings save
lamb life and preserve
prime lamb condition
since they avoid caus-
ing set-back and shock
and are a safeguard
against disease and
fly-strike.
composition of milk varies. He
expressed as obvious the idea
that all that is involved when
a baby feeds is the application
of a bit of vacuum by the baby
and out the milk will flow.
This is quite a common
belief in medical circles, and
the poor little infant is blamed
for not getting his tucker when,
in fact, it is Mum who is at
fault because she hasn’t let her
milk down, if 1 may use a
cowshed phrase. Now, any
cocky who has milked a cow
will put the medico right on this
one. Unless the cow positively
ejects her milk, no amount of
suction from the machine will
remove the milk. And, what is
more, the cow may milk fast
or slow, depending on her reac-
tions to the milking-procedure.
Not only farmers but the
ancient philsophers knew
that milk had to be ejected
by a. definite action on the
part of the mother. In' the
ancient myth explaining the
origin of the Milky Way the
baby Hercules was being fed
by his mother, Juno, when
Jupiter came down from
Olympus and seized the baby
before he had finished feeding.
Juno, who had apparently had
a really good let-down, sprayed
milk all over the place, each
drop forming a star in the
Milky Way.
This myth is illustrated by
Tintoretto, a famous Venetian
painter, who also clearly under-
stood the nature of milk ejec-
tion, because he shows milk
squirting from both nipples.
This point is important
it shows he understood that
the ejection of milk is not
just a local thing happening
in one gland ; it is a systemic
action involving both glands.
How milk is ejected has been
the cause of much argument.
However, the mechanism is
now becoming clear, and it is
very helpful for an under-
standing of certain milking-
problems to know a little about
the structure of the udder. It
is possible to run rubber-latex
into the udder of a cow or a
sheep, let it set, and then
dissolve away the tissue, so
leaving behind a model of the
spaces occupied by the nnlk.
The cast looks like a sort of
tree which has no leaves but
is covered with berries. There
are millions of tiny berries
joined together by tiny twigs.
These in turn connect to
bigger twigs and small branches
until at the bottom of the gland
there is a big trunk to which
everything else is connected.
The little berries are called
alveoii, and the twigs are duc-
tules. These alveoli are so small
that milk cannot flow out of
them unless it is forced in some
way.
If we use a special method of
staining pieces of gland it is
possible to see small basket-like
structures around the alveoli.
These baskets are made-up of
what are called myeopithelial
cells, which are amazingly
sensitive to the pituitary let-
down hormone. When the
hormone is released the baskets
contract and squeeze the milk
into the ducts, from which it
can be drawn during suckling
or milking. Unless the let-down
hormone acts on the mammary
gland only a small portion of
the milk can be withdrawn.
It is instructive to watch
baby-pigs feeding. Each piglet
“owns” a teat to which he
always goes, and during the
stimulation process there is
much sucking and nuzzling,
much excitement and squeak-
ing. Then suddenly the milk
comes. AH is silent except for
a most impolite guzzling noise
which ceases almost as suddenly
as it began in 30 to 60 seconds
after let-down had occurred.
Now, a pig has no milk-
cistern to store the milk in once
it has been let-down —there is
no large trunk in the cast of
the mammary tree. This means
that as soon as let-down ceases,
flow ceases.
In the cow there is a cistern,
so that the calf may drink at
leisure. Piglets have to suckle
about 20 times a day to get
enough food, while a calf which
can draw-off milk after the
let-down has stopped only
suckles three or four times a
day in the natural state.
There are still many interest-
ing things to talk about in con-
nection with the milking-
process, but I think it is time
we took stock of what w ; e have
learnt in the light of the prac-
tical problems of managing
milking. Incidentally, with
modification, the problems of
baby-feeding are similar.
From what we learned about
conditioning it will be apparent
that regularity is important. A
cow must feel at home at milk-
ing-time. She is a simple soul,
and she fits into the scheme of
things in the shed quite will-
ingly if we obey certain rules.
Some years ago I attempted
to find-out what sort of things
are disturbing to a cow. In
the experimental cowshed we
rigged-up flashing lights, a loud-
speaker which made a series


start the dau right!
• fPI
ipflj
HAvAf
CB6AM
of horrible whistles, a slowly
rotating wheel with alternate
black and white spokes, and a
vibrator which was placed on
the cow’s back. The only un-
usual stimulus out of this col-
lection which had any effect was
the slowly rotating wheel. When
the experiment was repeated a
month later even this was
ignored. I suspect that the
primitive cow grazing in a
clearing in the forest was
mighty suspicious of a quiet,
slinking object. I am sure that
cows, even when they pretend
to be polite, really hate dogs
(and wolves), which in their
native habitat were one of their
deadly enemies.
For this reason dogs should
not be used on the herd unless
they are very quiet and are
known well by the herd. A
cow quickly learns. It is this
that makes it important to have
a regular routine, so that the
cows are conditioned to certain
happenings before they are
milked.
At this stage in our know-
ledge we do not know what
events in the shed matter to
the cows, so it is wise to try
to make the whole procedure
orderly and quiet. We do
know that cows hate sudden
noises.
The cow is a quiet animal. I
once knew a schoolmaster who
took-up dairyfarming. He
was a nice chap, very know-
ledgeable and only too anxious
to learn. He was fussy,
scrupulously clean and hard-
working. But his production
was poor.
A visit to the cowshed was
enough to show why. He
dashed about the place like a
little rat, fussing here, tinkering
with something there, never in
the same place for more than
a few seconds ; and, to make
things worse, he jabbered to his
assistant as he went about his
work.
All the cows were uneasy,
there was much dunging, and
milking was erratic.
He was just not the type
to make a cowman. On the
other hand, his neighbor, a
slow-moving, easygoing chap
who knew what he was about,
had a good production-record.
He moved amongst his cows
like one of the herd. There
was no fussing: just a quiet
orderly movement of cows into
and out of the bails.
It has often been remarked
that a radio-set in the cowshed
helps with the milking. Judg-
ing from our experiments I
think the cows would ignore
most sounds from a radio-set.
On the other hand, the
ones doing the milking
probably work more quietly,
without bustle, when there is
something to listen to. A good,
milker is never in a hurry, and
if the milkers enjoy their job
the cows will respond by giving
their milk regularly. They will
also give more milk.
This may sound surprising,
but I will have to leave till later
the explanation of manage-
ment helping production.
In summarising what we have
learnt we might put it this
way. A cow is a female. To
get her milk she must be wooed.
This doesn’t involve only a
set procedure, but the creation
of an atmosphere.
Knowledge is helpful in any
wooing process, and to be
successful we must understand
the object of our affections,
even if our intentions are
strictly economic.
A good milker also loves his
cows and is trusted by them.
They respond to his ministra-
tions with a good let-down at
every milking. They know that
nothing will happen to
frighten or hurt them.
All the gadgets in the world,
all the fancy cowsheds, will not
take the place of what Pro-
fesser Petersen has called good
“cowmanship,” and our excur-
sions into the nature of the cow
show just why we have to earn
the co-operation of our animals,
for without it we cannot reap
to the full the twice-daily
harvest of milk.
Shearing Inspection
W. C. Carroll, N.S.W.
president of the Australian
Corriedale Association, empha-
sises an exhibiting-point that
intending future exhibitors
should specially note.
Entries in the Corriedale
section of this year’s Sydney
Sheepshow, he pointed out,
were restricted because some
breeders failed to have sheep
inspected in accordance with
the shearing-regulation.
The regulation is that sheep
must be shorn down to the
equivalent of half-an-inch on
June 1 and inspected before
August 15.
Triumphant Again
“R.”: Shorthorn bull Cal-
rossie Triumphant, winner of
the Best Bull award at the
Royal Highland Show at Ayr
(Scotland) in June (B.
16/7/ ’5B), has now gained the
Blue Riband at the Royal
Agricultural Society of Eng-
land’s annual show, held at
Bristol.
The reserve-ticket went to
the Boots drug - company’s
Westdrums Princess Daphne,
a daughter of Erimus
Emeritus.
Wool Futures
From W. WEATHERLY,
Chairman, Australian Wool-
growers’ Council :
In B. 18/6/’5B P. B. Rogers
makes much of the wool-futures
market as a grower’s means of
insurance. It is not much of
an insurance-policy. If wool
rises in value the grower loses
more than the rise; if it falls he
gains less than the fall; if
the price remains steady he
loses a small margin, the
amount depending on how far
forward he sells his futures.
No one can predict
accurately world-market con-
ditions six months ahead, so it
would be necessary to insure
every year. On this basis the
woolgrower would average-out
better over the years by not
operating on the wool-futures
market at all.
Mr. Rogers maintains that
because wool has fallen it must
be because of the operations of
a cartel. He takes no account
of the general trade conditions
in other countries and in other
commodities. Copper, for
instance, has had a marked fall.
Britain had to put her Bank-
rate up to 7 per cent, for a
while, and France has been in
a political turmoil. The U.S.A.
has had a fair-sized recession.
Competition from synthetics
may have played a part. Are
these minor influences beside
those of a cartel?
The next point Mr. Rogers
quotes is the success of the
disposal of war-time wool-
stocks by BAWRA and J.O.
to try to disprove that a
bought-in stockpile would have
a depressing effect on market
recovery. The war-time stock-
piles were absorbed on a
market that had not had free
access to wool for a number of
years. Wardrobes were
depleted, and a large propor-
tion of the wool that had been
used was for uniforms, which
were no longer required.
Market conditions were very
different from those which
would be ruling if the stockpile
were bought-in at reserve prices
on a depressed market.
Even during the J.O. dis-
posals period the rate of
absorption of Australian wool
into the world’s markets was
not very different from that of
the present time, as the clips at
the end of the war were small
and in the last three years have
been very large.
Mr. Rogers believes that a
floor-price plan based on costs-
of-production will inevitably
be forced on the industry. Such


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWTS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. 0. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies in all Country Centres
schemes have not been notably
successful in the other
industries which have tried
them. The dairy industry seems
to be having a very lean time
on world markets, and has
been heavily subsidised. To the
extent that it suffers from com-
petition from margarine its
position is comparable to the
relationship between wool and
synthetic fibres. The egg
industry does not always sound
happy with its marketing-
schemes.
When it is considered that a
large proportion of any sub-
sidies in Australia is contributed
by the wool industry, it is diffi-
cult to see how it could sub-
sidise itself. I think Australia’s
best interests over the years will
be served by maintaining the
present open free-auction
system for selling our wool.
Fertility of Rams
“Myall”: When purchasing
rams it’s good policy to check
their fertility. Capital outlay
is high enough without having
to buy rams to replace those
temporarily or permanently
infertile.
Always examine the flock-
rams before mating, and shear
them at least twice a year to
prevent blowfly-strike, which
may cause temporary infer-
tility.
When mating ewes with
British-breed rams for fat-lamb
production, 2j to 3 per cent,
of rams are needed. As fer-
tility defects are greater
amongst furi-mouth and aged
rams than young ones, it's as
well to increase the percentage,
using one or two extra young
rams. Assuming that joining is
carried out for six weeks, allow-
ing for two periods of oestrus,
use the older rams for the first
fortnight, then put in the
younger rams and let the older
ones spell for a week on good
feed. These can be put back
to joining to complete the six-
week period.
A supplement fed to rams
during winter and early spring
will help to ensure their fertility
when mating commences later
in the year. Vitamin-A, a pre-
requisite for the formation of
healthy sperm in rams, is
available only when grass or
crops are green. Prime green
lucerne-hay will supply the
deficiency, or a drench of con-
centrated vitamin-A should be
given.
Give the rams plenty of feed
for at least two months before
joining, but take care that they
do not become overfat.
Good Soil, Bad Year
“Mumme”: Amid the per-
sistent calls for better-quality
wheats it’s a sobering thought
that the amount of protein in
Australia’s wheat is primarily
a matter of fertile soils and bad
seasons.
Whatever variety a grower
sows he can expect to be in
trouble if his paddock has been
overcropped and the season is
good.
Quoting Victorian figures,
scientists point out that last
season’s grain in a poor year
had the best protein-percentage
for 10 years. Other years of
high protein were 1938, 1940
and 1945, when wheatgrowers
had to keep their harvester-
combs close to the ground and
their fingers crossed to get
much grain at all. Poor protein-
yields accompanied the bumper
1950 and 1956 crops.
The other factor which has
helped protein - percentages
during the past 20 years is the
use of clovers and medics to
raise the nitrogen-content of
the soil to a level which pro-
vides more protein-making
plant-food than when, bare
fallow was expected to do the
whole job.
Despite the fears of pessi-
mists who claim that our flour
is too soft' for the world's
markets, Australia is the only
wheatgrowing country without
surplus grain.
New Pig-feed
“S.A.”: South Australia has
evolved a new pig-feed which,
as well as reducing costs, is
expected to raise the quality
of pig-meats.
Tested at Roseworthy, and
based on grain-feeds and
vitamins, the new feed resulted
in savings of up to 30s. on the
cost of raising each pig. It
produced bacon-weight pigs in
five months, gave more lean
meat on bacon, provided a
greater potential for increased
production, and reduced
numbers of poorly-grown or
stunted pigs.
For creep-feed (four to eight
weeks) the ration is: wheat,
521 b. ; barley, 101 b. ; oats, 31b.;
linseed-meal, 61b. ; meatmeal
(60 per cent.), 21b.; dried skim-
milk, 121 b. ; lucerne-meal, 51b.;
limestone, 8oz.; salt, 8oz.:
ferrous sulphate, loz.;
vitamin-A-D 3 supplement, 2oz.
Weaner-feed (eight weeks to
14 weeks, or 1001 b. liveweight):
wheat, 521 b.; barley, 121 b.;
“Look out! It's a butcher-bird !"
oats, 81b.; linseed-meal, 61b.:
meatmeal, 121 b.; lucerne-meal,
101 b. ; limestone, 120 z.; salt,
8oz.; vitamin supplement, 2oz.
Baconers (1401 b. and over,
liveweight): wheat, 201 b.;
barley, 461 b.; oats, 151 b. ;
meatmeal, 41b.; lucerne-meal,
151 b.; limestone, 160 z.; salt,
8oz.; vitamin supplement, ioz.
Weaner-pigs up to 1001 b. are
allowed a ration of up to 41b.
daily. From 14 weeks they
receive 51b. each day, and as
baconers 61b. a day.
Roseworthy officers empha-
sise that wheat and barky are
Commended'for 11 th* early
stages. Lucerne-meal need not
be used if green pasture or
green lucerne is available. Use
51b.-61b. of cut green lucerne or
clover pasture for lib. lucerne-
meal in the formula. The
vitamin supplement isn’t needed
if green-feed is available. From
six to eight weeks of age skim-
milk can be used in increasing
amounts to replace meatmeal,
lgal. skim-milk equalling lib.
meatmeal.
Strawberries
“Acres”: “8.8.’5” advice on
strawberry - growing (B.
9/7/’5B) is sound, but his list
of varieties marks him as a
Southerner.
In Queensland there is only
one variety suitable for the sub-
tropical climate. This is the
Phenomenal, thought to be a
million-to-one-chance seedling
first grown many years ago in
the Gympie district.
Under conditions of high
humidity and heavy rainfall it
is necessary to plant straw-
berries each year in new ground
because of the build-up of
fungus diseases, such as eye-
spot and leaf-scorch. Spray-
ing or dusting with copper com-
pounds gives some control of
fungi, but change of ground
each year is the best protection.
Virus diseases, such as yellow-
edge and leaf-curl, are another


s
4m
Ottmi
Regd, |
Easy to use and
simple to operate.
Is draughtproof and
can be used in or out
of doors. Has com-
plete heat control
from silk to serge.
I
• 4 hours easy ironing
on only' J pint of
kerosene.
• No wires —no flexes
• Take it anywhere I
• Cannot spill I
• 100% British Made
too!
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores throughout Australia,
In case of difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
serious problem in berry-grow-
ing. These diseases have no
known cure, but have been
effectively controlled in Queens-
land by a scheme whereby
mother-plants for the next
season’s planting-material are
inspected and certified free of
virus by Department of Agri-
culture officers.
My advice to strawberry-
growers is to learn to recog-
nise a healthy plant, and to
know all possible pests and
diseases, and then guard your
plants against them. A good
cure is often too late in such
a perishable crop.
Pruning
“Sundowner”: Pruning-
methods commonly practised
in many fruitgrowing areas
often waste time and money
and, in addition, result in
smaller crops.
The fundamental of success-
ful pruning is to encourage the
natural growth of the tree —for
instance, don’t prune a natur-
ally spreading tree i to grow
into an upright one, or vice
versa.
It’s also wrong to start heavy
pruning too soon. If a tree
is pruned lightly it will build
a strong framework quickly,
and so bear fruit in three or
four years instead of seven
or eight.
Wherever possible retain all
laterals, because the more
leaves that grow on a tree in
a year the greater will be the
limb-development and the
tree's ultimate size.
Continual suppression of
leaders to a few inches each
year is a mistake which will
end in “stag-head” develop-
ing and production dropping.
Severe cutting-back and prun-
ing to spurs must always be
avoided.
Early Weaning
“Lumper”: The N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Department’s discovery
that lambs can be weaned in
emergencies when two to
seven weeks old is Valuable
news to graziers in dry areas.
Instead of having to try to keep
both lambs and ewes alive, or
knocking the lambs on the head
to save the ewes, it is now
quite possible to raise the
youngsters on short green
grass—much easieF and better
than using the bottle on
poddies.
It could well be practicable
to lift batches of lambs from
the dry areas to irrigated
country successfully, and main-
tain their mothers as “dry”
sheep on grain or other supple-
ment.
Whereas there is nothing
better than ewes’ milk for the
fat-lamb during its few months
of life, eight weeks is long
enough for the wool-breed lamb
to be with its mother any
longer is unnecessary strain on
the ewe and its wool-produc-
tion.
Airborne Poison
“Boone”: Further details of
the Victorian experiments in
poisoning rabbits by aerial
baiting of areas inaccessible
to the poison-cart, giving
promise of dealing a death-
blow to bunnies that have
escaped myxomatosis:
At an estimated cost of 3s.
an acre, the Lands Department
dropped a lethal load of carrot-
cubes on three properties in the
Upper Goulburn catchment,
using 1080 and 1081 poisons,
Subsequent examination
showed that the baits were
responsible for the haul of
destroyed rabbits. The 1080 : s
killing foxes, too. In New
Zealand 4500 tons of poisoned
carrots were dropped from the
air last year, clearing large
areas which apparently were
little less than rabbit-farms.
Farm Hints
“Sundowner”: Trees, grown
in clumps rather than in single
rows, are best for giving stock
protection against cold winds ;
and driving rain, but other
measures that might well be
taken are: Baled straw put
out in the paddocks ; sheets of
galvanised-iron erected between
droppers ; stock put in crops
of unreaped oats (even grass or
stubble ovei ; 9in - h ‘g h w i ?l
protect new-born lambs),
_ ,
Ed. : ' bout one-lhird oi
tbe difference in weaning-
weights of beef-calves is due
*° inheritance the rest to feed-
m S anb handling of the herd,
say the scientists. So im-
mediate results can be expected
from attention to management
methods. To improve calf-
weight through bleeding, cull
cows that pioduce light calves
at weaning.
_,, . .
“Pullut”: Pelleted hay,
becoming popular overseas, has
the advantage that there is no
waste when making it or feed-
ing it out. Michigan (U.S.A.)
University is working on a
machine to make the pellets in
the field. Other experimenters
are attempting to make pellets
for stock with other ingredients,
such as minerals and vitamins,
as well as hay.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(24/7/’5B)
Light to moderate rains are indicated on the coast and
highlands of Queensland during August, but the rest of the
State will probably have only poor rainfall. Moderate rain
on the south coast, central highlands, Darling Downs and
Maranoa areas during September, although general rains
are unlikely until December.
Most of N.S.W. is likely to have only light to moderate
patchy rains during August, although the r coast b etween
Port Macquarie and Jervis Bay should receive reasonably
good rains. Widespread snowstorms are likely during the
first week in August. Moderate to good rains should come
in September, but otherwise the spring rains will probably
be below normal, with general rains in December.
Light to moderate patchy rains are indicated in the
Mallee and northern areas of Victoria during August, with
reasonably good rains in the balance of the State. General
rains in September, and good rains likely in the southern
half of the State for the rest of the year.
There should be moderate to good rain in many areas
of South Australia during August, but only light to moderate
rain, below average, in the Murray Valley and poor in the
upper north and interior.
Light to moderate rains are indicated in the agricul-
tural areas of Western Australia during August, but rainr
fall poor elsewhere. Good general rains should fall in the
agricultural areas during September.
LENNOX WALKER.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The ball was set rolling for the spring
fashion-parades by the show which the
Elizabethan Ball Committee organised
at the Australia Hotel during the week.
Therp was an atmosphere of intense
excitement in the very large gathering,
which may have been due to the spring
feeling, or to the clothes (very nice
indeed, by Madame Zita) or to the guests-
of-honor (Madame Elena Nikolaidi,
opera-star Raymond Nilsson and Deputy-
Premier’s wife Mrs. R. J. Heffron), but
was most probably due to the fact that
the parade was televised. This necessi-
tated an extraordinary number of
dazzling lights, men in dustcoats, gents
in mustard-colored waistcoats, chaps in
hacking-jackets, fellows with headphones,
girls in pink overalls with A.B.C.
embroidered thereon, prohibitions on
where one could step, sit and stand, and
a general feeling that it’s great to be
on TV. Hill, president of the
ball-committee, was Hostess, and it should
be mentioned that the musical back-
ground was supplied by pianist Lettie
Keyes.
☆ ☆ ☆
As Sydney this week paid its last
tribute to Sir Charles Lloyd Jones, who
died at the age of 80, one could not
help feeling that it honored a citizen who
had really loved the city and who had
delighted to adorn it and to foster its
cultural life. Sir Charles had many gifts
and more opportunities than most of
us, but his sense of civic pride will
remain an inspiration to everyone who
loves this city. When, even in the smallest
ways, we try to maintain and enhance
the beauty of Sydney, by keeping the
streets tidy, by painting our houses, by
planting trees and flowers and shrubs,
we will be working in the same, spirit
as was this leader of Sydney life.
☆ ☆ ☆
Guests-of-honor at a reception by the
Royal Commonwealth Society on Friday
night were his Excellency, Judge the Hon.
Sir Percy Spender, K.C.V.0., K.8.E.,
Q.C., and Lady Spender. This is the
correct way to refer to Sir Percy—we
have it on the word of the society’s
president, Mr. Ivan Black, LL.B., M.L.A.
At this reception were to be met Sir
John Northcott (busier than ever, he
says), Sir James Bissett and Lady Bissett
(his book Sail Ho is doing very well
and he has a delightful title ready for
his next one), Mr. and Mrs. A. L. Rigby,
Mr. and Mrs. H. Twigden, Mrs. Muriel
Sargent and her daughter, Mrs. Malcolm
Fuller.
#V ' V
Anyone interested in period-settings
will find pleasure in the production of
“Gigi” at the Independent. The embroid-
ered Victorian mantel-drape looks like a
genuine antique, and the lace shawl worn
by Olive Walters in the last act is per-
fectly in period. Olive Walters, by the
way, celebrates 50 years on the stage with
this performance, which, needless to say,
is polished to perfection. The play, by
French authoress Colette, was recently
played on Broadway with Audrey Hep-
burn in the name-part. At the Independ-
ent Verity Marina plays Gigi, with Ailsa
Grahame giving a memorable perform-
ance as an ageing gold-digger of the
’eighties, whose advice to young players
(“never, never wear baroque pearls!”)
is one Of the most amusing parts of the
play.
Elena Nikolaidi, the internationally
famous Greek contralto, is the talk of
the town at the moment. Making her
second tour of Australia for the A.B.C.,
she will be in this country for 16-weeks
and, as well as recitals, will sing with
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra under
the baton of Nikolai Malko. Born in
a small town near Athens, Nikolaidi
now lives in America with her husband,
Thanos Mellos, also a singer, and her
11-year-old son Michos. A special bill,
signed by the President, has conferred
the right of permanent residence in the
US. upon Nikolaidi and her family, but
the famous singer continues to aid her
native land as much as possible.
Hairdressing- and beauty-salons grow
ever more dressed-up and beautified. The
latest to appear on the scene is at Edge-
cliff (Sydney) and has such aids to mental
composure as non-claustrophobiac hair-
driers (they have transparent bands
round the edge), 60ft. of tropical
climbing-plants, a 6ft. fish-tank contain-
ing rare tropical fish, and specially
designed reclining chairs so madame can
put her feet up whilst having her hair
dried, and a splendid view of the harbor.
Mr. Raymond, one of the proprietors,
belongs to a family who have been hair-
dressers for 300 years, one of them being
personal hairdresser to Madame Pompa-
dour, though history does not relate that
Madame P. ever wished to climb up a
tropical plant or dive into a 6ft. fish-
tank!
☆ ☆ '☆
An Indian Dinner, one of a series
which the Y.W.C.A. has been organising
for some time in the interests of inter-
national knowledge and friendship, was
held during the week at the “Y” and
proved a most interesting affair. Mem-
bers of the Indian community in colorful
saris, or intricate turbans, served genuine
Indian curry and rice; there was a
mannequin-parade of Indian fashions;
Mr. Sardoll Singh provided Indian instru-
mental music, and Miss Jyotikana Ray
Indian dances. The guest-of-honor was
the High Commissioner for India, Mr.
P. A. Menon, and Mrs. Menon, and
they were greeted by Miss Joyce
McMillan, secretary of “Y.” Mrs. H.
Danby was in the chair, and Mrs. Neville
Harding, president of the Sydney “Y,”
proposed a vote of thanks to all those
who had contributed to an unhsual and
pleasant evening.
# f V
The Red Cross “Orange Blossom” Ball,
to be held at the Trocadero on Wednes-
day, August 13, is to have an unusual
motif. As the winner of the Red Cross
Bride of the Year Quest will be
announced at the ball, the decorations,
which have been planned by Miss
Phyllis Shillito, include huge silver horse-
shoes, arrow-pierced hearts and sprays
of orange-blossom. A 10-year-old Cupid
will lead the parade of brides, their
attendants and flower-girls around the
ballroom, where they will be presented
to the Governor of N.S.W., Lieutenant-
General Sir Eric Woodward, and Lady
Woodward. Tickets may be obtained
from the secretary, Mrs. E. Pointing
(FM 5374).
, V- V 32-
News comes from London that
Barbara Toy’s new book, Columbus
Was Right, should reach Australia by
Christmas. Barbara has just left on a
trip by cargo-ship round the Mediter-
ranean and Italian shores. Miss Darli
McCourt, who returned to Sydney during
the week after three months abroad, said
that Heinemann’s will shortly publish
books by Australian writers Elizabeth
Webb and Nancy Cato.
V. V V
Noted that Beth Chalmers, who has
been secretary of the Women’s Union,
Manning House, at Sydney University,
for the past five years, has changed over
to the recently-formed Industrial Design
Council of Australia, of which she is to
be information officer. She will be
succeeded at Manning House by Beryl
Stevens, who is a graduate of London
University and has been in Australia


for the past three years working with a
marketing-research organisation.
ft is ft
Among the most fetching of the teen-
age fashions, to be seen at most of the
G.P.S. sports events, are the knee-length
knitted socks in bright colors. Worn with
short tartan skirts and car-coats to match
the socks, they are really charming.
MELBOURNE
At the Town Hall reception given by
the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress
(Cr. and Mrs. F. W. Thomas) in honor
of Sir Percy and Lady Spender the re-
ception-room was gay with huge bowls
of mixed flowers, including spring blooms
from the City Council hothouses. Lady
Spender pinned a spray of orchids in
the jacket of her black suit, which was
worn with a mink stole and a pale-beige
fur-felt cloche adorned with jewelled
motifs. With her sheath-frock of black
wool-crepe Mrs. Thomas wore a petal-
cap of white chrysanthemums and a
dyed-ermine stole.
In the official party were the Lieut.-
Governor, Sir Edmund Herring, and
Lady Herring, and Mrs. Herbert Brookes
(her choice a frock-and-coat ensemble
in Parma-violet wool and a matching
hat). Mrs. Tony Luxton wore a coat of
deep-wine and black tweed which had
a black Persian-lamb collar ; the crown
of her black velvet hat carried bronze-
tipped white feathers. Mrs. Lance
Reichstein chose a beige woollen suit
with a high-crowned matching melusine
hat. Very attractive was the cap of
spring flowers worn by Lady Selleck with
her black frock, the skirt of which
featured a cascade of fine pleats down
one side. A small flower-hat was also
worn by Mrs. Isobel Green (the Prime
Minister’s only sister) with her black
tailored coat. Other guests included Mr.
and Mrs. Oswald Bowden, Mrs. H. F.
Creswick, Mrs. Richard Noone, Mrs.
George Gay, Mrs. H. Hamer, Mr. Basil
Murphy and his wife, Dr. Deborah
Bullet - Murphy.
☆ ☆ ☆
Looking as though it were about to
take-off, a Jindivik aircraft on part of
the dancefloor was featured in the decora-
tions at the Palais, St. Kilda, when the
R.A.A.F. Headquarters officers’ mess held
its annual ball. Almost 750 guests were
welcomed by the mess-president, Air-Vice-
Marshal A. L. Walters, and Mrs. Walters,
assisted by Group-Captain A. D. J.
Garrisson. Guests-of-honor were the
Chief of Air Staff, Air-Marshal Sir
Frederick Scherger, and Lady Scherger
(her flowing gown combined light- and
dark-grey silk-organza). Mrs. Walters
wore a sheath-gown of white French re-
embroidered lace with a wide stole of the
same delicate lace. Other guests were
Lieut.-General Sir Henry Wells and Lady
Wells (her gown was of powder-blue lace
and tulle), Air-Marshal Sir Richard and
Lady Williams, Air-Marshal Sir George
and Lady Jones (her gown was of deep-
rose chiffon), Air-Marshal Sir John and
Lady McCauley (her choice a bouffant
gown of jade-green tulle). Others in the
official party were Air-Vice-Marshal E. C.
Wackett and his wife; Air-Vice-Marshal
H. G. Acton and Mrs. Acton ; Air-Vice-
Marshal E. A. Daley and Mrs. Daley ; and
Secretary for Air McFarlane and Mrs.
McFarlane (the latter’s pretty deep-blue
chiffon gown was highlighted with a
spray of pastel-pink roses down one side
of the skirt).
Sarah Gilder, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Frederick Gilder, of Maffra,
was educated at Toorak College. She is
a member of the Wool Ball committee,
a group of young people working for the
Ramsay Mailer Opportunity Club for
boys and girls. Recently Sarah was
guest-of-honor at a dance given by her
parents at the Royal Melbourne Golf
Club for 250 guests, many of whom were
in town for the Sheep Show.
The light from white candles in tall
candlesticks spaced down the long aisle
of St. John’s, Toorak, shone on one of
the year’s loveliest brides —Patricia, only
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. John Heath, of
Toorak. Her gown of pure white Chan-
tilly-lace, mounted on tulle and organza,
had the long-sleeved bodice finished with
a bateau-neckline ; the straight skirt fell
into a long graceful train. Her waist-
length tulle veil fell from a diamond
tiara, and her bouquet was of lily-of-the-
valley and white orchids. Attending her
were Rosemary Young and Ann Swallow,
wearing frocks of white silk-organza
made with festoon skirts and finished
with large bustle-bows of delphinium-
blue silk-taffeta. Matching bandeaux in
their hair were finished with forget-me-
nots, and they carried early-Victorian
posies of green hydrangea centred with
blue flowers. The bridegroom, Graeme,
only son of Mrs. H. Laws, of Queens
Road, had Campbell McLaren as best
man. Nigel Eagen was groomsman.
After the ceremony Dr. and Mrs. Heath,
with Mrs. Laws, received over 200 guests
at a dinner-reception in the Venetian
Court at the Hotel Australia. Mrs.
Heath chose a gown of ice-blue lace which
was a sheath to the knees, where it broke
into a froth of paler-blue tulle. Mrs.
Laws wore an ensemble of russet-brown.
Among the guests were Sir Lawrence and
Lady Wackett, Mr. and Mrs. S. G.
Aarons, Mr. and Mrs-. Eric Cottrell, Mr.
and Mrs. Colin Russell and Mr. and
Mrs. A. Spring.
V V V
Margaret., only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. K. G. Begg, of Rannoch, Portsea,
who has announced her engagement to
John Robinson, of Keith (S.A.), is an
old Clyde girl. The marriage is planned
for November, and their future home
will be at Keith. who is the eldest
son of Mr. and Mrs. L. B. Robinson, of
Andover, Hampshire, England, was edu-
cated at Rugby and Melbourne Grammar
School.
# K- ' V
Mary, younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. F. D. Ryan of the Eyrie, Eaglemont,
who has announced her engagement to
Sydney architect Peter Kerr, is an old
Mandeville Hall girl and is now studying
interior-design at Melbourne Technical
College. The ring she is wearing is a
marquis-shaped diamond. Peter is the
only son of Mr. and Mrs. J. Aubrey
Kerr, of Collarov,
CANBERRA
The acting Vice-Chancellor of the Aus-
tralian National University, Professor
A. D. Trendatl, welcomed guests to a
cocktail-party to mark the presentation
of a collection -of books to University
House by the British Council. The
presentation was mqde in the University
House Library by the acting High Com-
missioner for U.K., Mr. N. Pritchard,
who said the pleasure of giving the books
was touched with a little envy at their
loss. And well it might, as an examina-
tion of the collection showed. On behalf
of the A.N.U., Dr. J. D. Freeman
thanked the British Council for the gift.
Cocktails forgotten, guests found much
bf interest in the colorful display of 70
books which included Art Treasures of
the British Museum; Portrait 'of Eng-
lish Churches, in magnificent photo-
graphy by A. F. Kersting ; Oxford Com-
panion of the Theatre, by Phyllis Hart-
noil ; Capability Brown, a book on
landscape-architecture of the 18th cen-
tury; and David Piper’s The English
Face, a book with many reproductions
of famous English portraits (including,
William Hogarth’s The Shrimp Girl) —
which belies Oscar Wilde’s cynical
summing-up of the English face: “Once
seen never remembered.” Among the
smaller books was The Stuffed Owl (an
anthology of bad verse) and Qompanion
to Music, with the whimsical sketches of
Gerard Hoffnung.
Guests at the party included Mrs.
Pritchard, the British Council liaison-
officer, Mr. C. A. F. Dundas, and Mrs.
Dundas.


kimono exquisitely grey. It was
Otto Ruff.
He displayed no surprise,
presented me his pallid fingers
as though we had met a month
ago, asked me to his room
.. . but immediately my
dear ... to savor an enchanting
wine . . . yellow as a page-boy’s
hair ... an elixir begged from
a qreature who had known
Oscar Wilde. Windmilling
Charleston-fiend and its back-
drop of polyangular orange
and black disintegrated as I
followed white ankles’upstairs,
disconcerted by the opinion I
had formed before reaching his
door.
The room, however, rather
tharf underline that opinion,
erased it, leaving a problem.
The room had irises painted on
door-panels, blue-and-white
ginger-jars," palm-leaf fans,
William Morris wallpaper,
poems by Austin Dobson,
beribboned olive-oil bottle —
had I looked from the window
I could not have expected to
see the backyard plane-trees
of the Melbourne Club but the
rustic arbor shawled by smilax
and noisette roses.
In that room so obviously
reconstructed, his talk of Pater
and Rossetti, his brandishing
a peacock feather, I began to
suspect a bizarre scheme. It
fascinated me and motivated
my acceptance of the re-
beginning of our relationship.
After that, no ohe but I
travelled beside him, a useless
portmanteau, to every station
on his haunted journey ; only
I remained, a common factor,
a brown dog of a person mis-
placed in a series of extra-
ordinary settings.
No one knows —despite the
loathsomely - painstaking re-
search —what I missed between
1922 and 1927, between the
jazz-boy of 1937 with Rudolph
Valentino hair and the secluded
aesthete of 1936. After 1936 I
witnessed each metamorphosis,
but even to me his lives remain
inexplicable, the seed of such
varied blooms evades classifica-
tion. This life composed of
lives, made so public by the
literary brillance of one life,
is a mystery.
YET accepting resentfully all
contradictory evidence, I
could not believe him any-
thing more than an actor.
I cannot believe it now,
despite his last letter, and his
guile in switching characters
so that one never saw him
between characters or out of
character. One hour lie was
this, the next he was that. And
often —oh, the gap between,
the difference! Nothing except
congruent boyhood which gave
me a sort of invisibility for
him can explain why he
sought me as witness, as
follower to the last, of his
arborisations about the wire of
an idea, of his reproductions of
dominant types which were so
brimming with acid reality that
one drop more would have
meant overflow, burlesque.
That never happened.
Change of voice was possible —
intonation, key, vocabulary,
texture. The infinitely graded
adjustments ! of gait, grimace,
gesture and so on were explic-
able though frightening in
numerous variety. Less explic-
b, bm sta , ible were
subtle phy sc al cha nges.
, _ east explic^ b f e were the
ap p aren t inner conversions, the
d f£ arding o£ an elaborated
d an § in a moment> the
o( an utter ly
differe F nt equaily elaborate
tenet
My observing these deep .
seat / d transmu f ations shou i d ,
now, convince me that he did
not simulate but become. 1
cannot believe this, cannot,
though I want to.
Two months after I re-began
my friendship with him I was
absent for several weeks from
28 Collins Street. On my
return a letter awaited me. I
had seen his handwriting just
before leaving; toying with
rondeaux and triolets he had
given me some to read; the
script was exquisite as Baron
Corvo’s.
The handwriting of the
letter ran over thin foolscap in
curlicues like the tracks of a
lively little pest; he was at
Hawthorn Cottage in the
Dandenong Hills. I must visit
him, lugging along Camembert
and black olives from Franz’s.
The letter intimated that I
had been wilting in the city
while he, my affectionate Ot,
had flourished like a zinnia
waiting my long-proposed
visit.
By the time the train
reached his station I was almost
> believing this fable; when I
saw him straddling in a decrepit
buggy outside the station there
was nothing else to believe.
He wore sandals, blue shirt,
creased flannels ; his plumper
face was sun-browned, his hair
bleached and tousled as the
grass in the sunlit midday
paddocks.
“Ave, you old sod!” he
shouted. “Get your chalky
bones aboard before this
whore of a nag bplts.” I felt
his strong hand, heard his
“Ups-a-daisy, decadent! Whoa,
you hell-horse! And how’s the
great grey metropolis? Gee-up,
moke —to the inn!”
Through the sugary crunch
of crazy wheels in gravel he
chattered warmly on: “Mind
those eggs with your city feet,
old brownie. Had to haggle
for ’em; they must be the
exact shade of tan; my trull
abhors ’em white.” -
His trull? His trull? There
was the basket of eggs, lettuce,
radishes. The lamp rattled in
its socket. Skylarks let them-
selves down, spider-soprani on
crystal threads, from the blue
ceiling. There were scents of
hayricksj cows by creek-
willows, dusty pines. The sun
shone through me and he cease-
lessly talked. His succubus
adored cheese. He was writing
this and that; he read them to
Betsy-bitch, she cried like a
waterspout because she had no
more grey matter than a dog-
biscuit, not a thought above
her navel.
Soon it seemed that I had
long known of Betsy-bitch and
her lolloping bundles of yellow
hair, of the other guests —
Cowley and his insecure pince-
nez and T. S. Eliotian verse,
Maisie Green and her Eliza-
bethan vocabulary and un-
buttoned scarlet blouses, of
the farmhouse collapsing in an
untended garden,, bags of
onions in the bathroom,
cracked washstand sets, nine-
teenth-century copies of “Corn-
hill Magazine,” lamplit nights
of beer-drinking, beds rattling
brass knobs like cymbals to
the amorous exercisings of Otto
and Betsy-bitch, Cowley and
Maisie, while I caught fleas.
And although I enjoyed him
reading them I could not guess
his poems were brilliant; lam
no judge of ) such things.
Tutored by critiques I now see
that his Country Poems have
genius and are the exciting
evocation of one aspect of Aus-
tralian rural life.
\X7ithin four months he was
nightly in the gambling-
rooms of Russian Jews on the
top floors of old cafes in
Exhibition Street, suet-faced,
eyes blank, two tunnels that
struck back dark and congested
with useless aces into nowhere
and nothing.
For five years I tried to
prevent circumstance foiling
my discovery of him at Interval,
in the hiatus betweefi ; it was
obvious that when he had
discarded one mask and not
assumed the next I should
glimpse the real Otto Ruff,
though what, meticulously, the
real means I cannot determine.
Impelled by curiosity and
the bloodless boyhood affection
which the most hateful trans-
formation could not lessen, I
trotted by the side of more
than a score of creatures many
of whom would have been as
unpalatable as stale water had
they not all been the one
creature, trotted with the in-
creasing desperation of an
CROSSED LINES
She was a party-girl, and I had a party-line ;
I knelt beside her, and 1 filled her glass with wine.
“You are not beautiful,” I said, “you are not good.
But you’ve a sadness that’s appealing to my mood .”
She was a party-girl, and she had a party-line;
She dropped her eyes, and sadly let them look in mine.
“It pleases me,” she said, “that you should act for me.
How much is secret, though, and no one here’s to see.
“The party-girls, remembering your party-line,
Are sniggering into their sour-grapish wine.
Well, let them snigger since l know the act, know you.
But if I choose believing, all you say is true.
“Even a party-girl, caught with a party-line,
Can turn your act-for-any-girl into something mine
And frighten you. I’ve caught you now. Do I look sad ?”
She Smiled then. And l smiled, too, was caught and glad.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


exhausted spaniel compelled to
keep moving.
And then, suddenly, Otto
-C* disappeared.
I did not, of course, immedi-
ately think of him as having
disappeared. I momentarily
expected a call to set me
trotting again. Within a
month expectancy had dis-
solved into anxiety. Anxiety
gradually forgot itself into
lacerated vanity, into forgetful-
ness itself. Days lapped over
Otto Ruff; the .tide of days
drowned my mind.
Eighteen months after his
disappearance a grimed and
flimsy envelope came to 28
Collins Street where I had kept
my one room during the years
that he ha'd gone from room to
room keeping none. I could
not place the blotched hand-
writing . . . Otto Ruff. Would
I come instantly, before it was
too late, please, instantly? .
Perhaps I was tired, the
implications of the scrawl, the
slummy addresss, the before it
is too late, seemed unreal,
I felt that, for once, he was
over-acting ; that the letter was
a property one. However, as
soon as. it was possible, but
not instantly, I set off.
It would have pleased Otto
Ruff to know that I came to
him on a day and at a time of
day which could not have been
more fitting had I chosen
deliberately, knowing what I
should find and delaying my
arrival until that day and that
hour. I had walked through
slimy twilight streets which ice-
cold and rain-fringed wind did
nothing to relieve of stench. I
had knocked at last on the door
of a pastrycook’s which reeked
of sour cardboard and rats ;
there on a grey marble slab
sat four little tarts, each con-
taining a consumptive’s gobbet
°f jam.
I was not shocked when a
toothless monstrosity, garbed
in female clothes, vegetable in
countenance, told me in the
accent of a theatre-Cockney
that she was ’is lan’lidy, that
P°°’ Otty ’ad passed orn, ’ad
been lideaht and looked loverly,
With a stinking sob she handed
me a letter. “Give it to.me
at the last,” she said.
1 read .*5, ai ? d its 'J'? r . cJs 2
tainted with the mephit.s of the
P lac . e and h J ssed " lth £he blue
t ,ss L ns T of th f ab f e ™ y .
J? ead : * raad it before I went
to hl ™: the P atte . rn ° £ w P rds
aeemed somehow to have been
* nown to me for a lon S
time -
When you are beginning to
read this letter I am beginning
to write I shall be dead. A
second ago I looked into the
looking-glass. Knowing I was
dying l wished to see what was
coming upon my face. Then
/ turned down the last looking-
glass l shall ever look into. The
last door closed to close out
everything. Last room. Last
letter. Odd — l can’t think why
/ want to write, yet there are
things I desperately want to
tell you; but s om e thin g
prevents me.
Things slip away. I forget.
All except this: have you ever
returned to your room, late,
the world running down, walls
and furniture accusing you
with inimical silence of some-
thing you cannot understand,
have you ever stood, tired, a
wafer to be crushed, not need-
ing to talk or think or move,
and then have moved to a look-
ing-glass, looked into your own
eyes, seen Ups break to breathe,
“Who are you?"
Have you ?
I wanted to know what you
saw behind the color of flesh,
the flesh of bones, the bones of
your mind. Isn't there some-
thing of oneself no one else
has ever seen ? Do you under-
stand ?
Listen : my name, the unseen
ticket tagged to my body, is
Otto Ruff. I have seen Otto
Ruff dying. I have seen other
faces, all ticketed Otto Ruff,
all different, and not one is . . .
is Otto Ruff. There was a film
on every face, a film that noth-
ing removes, even dying.
Listen: when I am dead I
want you to look on my face.
Then you will know. Surely
you will know ?
There, paper. Unsaid what
had to be said. It eludes me,
flees back and back through a
thousand looking-glasses into
childhood and beyond. Useless.
Cold.
Otto Ruff.
T walked through Otto Ruffs*
A last door.
Under pennants of wallpaper,
on an iron bed, lay the corpse.
Other hands had plugged its
orifices (with old rags?),
combed its hair, controlled its
limbs to coffin shape. Other
hands had left a jug of arum-
lilies. Other hands. Yet I
could not restrain the thought
that lilies,' jug, the rain and
night, were visible wishes of
the dead man.
As he must also have wished,
I recalled “carefree, boyish
adventures” with him. I might
have experienced the sorrow
one does had not an annihilat-
ing ray stung into my mind
. . . when we were boys, long
ago, during the Great War,
was not Otto Ruff the Perfect
Boy? Had he, even then,
taking cues from me, the plod-
ding adherent to immutable
boy laws, already begun his
strange trek?
I looked brazenly on his
face.
There was no answer there.
There was only a smile, in-
corruptibly calm, indissolubly
fixed: \. '
Here lie the mortal remains
of one who disappeared from
the world while it still lauded
him with journalese it] the
literary periodicals and the
Saturday supplements, who dis-
appeared to seek alone, suffer
alone, who sought and starved,
starved and suffered, suffered
and died, glad to die, glad to
fling burdens off, to sleep . . .
to sleep ...
That was the smile, the cliche
smile.
I could only think thatvOtto
Ruff —whoever he was had
played his last scene as scrupu-
lously as any. I walked into
the rain, bewildered, as un-
answered as he, frightened.
And most was I frightened,
and most am I still sometimes
frightened when 1 think of him
—it is surely reasonable so--
merely as a wonderful actor.
I am frightened to receive
letters, to open them.
Do you understand what I
mean and why I am sometimes
frightened . . . no, no, often
frightened, always frightened?
The Hollidays
BY Middy
“I want to get a SMILING one of him. Tell him one of your stories!”


command, and then plied his paddle
again with all his might.,.. In
another moment his [the shark’s]
snout rose above the water ; his wide
jaws, armed with a terrific double
row of teeth, appeared . . .
But of course one shark is very much
like another; and if it still remains true
that one boys’-book is essentially very
much like another, this attempt of
M. J. Unwin’s to write a heroic tale in
the grand manner has had results both
pleasing and profitable.
The book is not, as the opening so
alarmingly suggests, yet another tale of
“Sydney Town,” full of information
about convicts, early Governors and
the Tank Stream, but a narrative of
adventure among the aborigines of the
Queensland coast, among whom. Peter
and companions have the good
fortune to be shipwrecked.
Everything from that point on con-
tinues in the classic tradition: the hos-
tile aborigines advancing upon them,
only to be mollified by Peter’s making
“the sign of peace,” a useful and com-
plicated gesture, rather like dislocating
your shoulder, which he has picked up
on his earlier travels; the doubtful
journey to the haunts of the native tribe;
a magnificent fight by Sailor, fists
against the baddy’s waddie or the
baddie’s waddy, whichever way you like
to spell it; a somewhat belated debate
by the tribe, with a touch of Fenimore
Cooper, as to whether or not the white
strangers shall be slain.
Then, friendship with the little
aboriginal maiden, which should bring
all the girls in, but no mawkish love-
story, which would send all the boys
out. And, for good measure, a hidden
valley, the bones and the treasure of
an old Spanish navigator; and, after
the rescue of the, maiden from the
baddy (or baddie) who has kidnapped
her and climbed up the cliff like a
monkey, there is the appropriate fare-
well to the sorrowing tribe and the
return to civilisation in the boat which
(another generous gesture) the escaped
convicts, after thoughtfully murdering
each other, have let drift to the shore.
And with all this goes, of course, a
lot of information on aboriginal
customs.
In all, it amounts to one of the best
books for children on the aborigines
which this reviewer has read; and this
is because M. J. Unwin has learned
from the masters to stick to the point,
to tell a straightforward swiftly-moving
story of adventure, introducing his
information painlessly and naturally in
the course of the story and never inflict-
ing on his young reader those incom-
prehensible aboriginal legends which
(among a few that transfer felicitously
to the European tradition) are really
of interest only to anthropologists.
A point worth noting about the book
is the excellent format provided by
the Jacaranda Press, a firm which is
comparatively new in the Australian
publishing field and which here has
done very well indeed. The paper is
Of fair quality; the type is large and
clear; the binding a durable reddish
cloth; and there'are lively, if somewhat
naive, pen-drawings for illustrations.
Hodson's Horse
Rider on a Grey Horse, by Barry
Joynson Cork (Cassell), is a biography
of William Hodson, who raised and
commanded the famous Indian cavalry
regiment, Hodson’s Horse —an arro-
gant, aggressive young officer who
aimed to cut his way to fame with the
sword he knew how to use so well, but
who, when he was finally killed in
action at Lucknow in the Indian
Mutiny, left nothing behind him except
his name, which went to his regiment.
An officer must be remarkable who
(as a lieutenant aged 36) could simul-
taneously be acting - quartermaster -
general and head of the intelligence
department of the Delhi Field Force
while at the same time officiating as
commandant of the Corps of Guides
and leading his own regiment of irregu-
lar cavalry into the hand-to-hand
melees he loved. And in the midst of
all this Hodson still found time to write
daily to his wife.
His letters were preserved, "and the
book is well-documented from these
and other authorities on Victorian
India. Hodson lost command of the
Guides after a court-of-inquiry into
his accounts, which the regimental pay-
clerk had kept for him incompre-
hensibly in Persian. This, though
eventually he was cleared, seems to
have pleased his brother-officers, who
resented his arrogance; but his men,
when he met them again, gave a strange
display of their affection;—
Had they been British troops, the
most he could have expected as a
sign of affection would have been a
smart salute or a sergeant-major’s
rare smile. Breaking ranks and
crowding round him, the men of
the Guides had no such inhibitions.
“They seized my bridle, dress,
hands and feet and literally threw
themselves down before the horse
with the tears streaming down their
faces. Many officers who were
present did not know what to make
of it; and they thought the creatures
were mobbing me; and so they
were,” Hodson wrote to Susan.
Men’s reputations travelled fast
in India. It was not for nothing they
shouted at him a new name: “Burra
larai-wallah” —the Great in War.
Essentially William Hodson was a
man-of-war, born leader, tireless horse-
man and among the best swordsmen of
his day, but this was not the full extent
of his character, and part of his nature
craved poetry and music and loved the
cultured conversation of women. Barry
Joynson Cork sketches this contrast in
its proper balance. f
SHADE
There is a Body in this shade
As masculine as the sun’s own;
You feel it where your thought is laid
On the fixed pillows of aged trees
Where Time has hardened, dense as stone.
There is a Body in this shade
As feminine as a girl’s hand ;
The fernery of its touch is laid
Like the green-cooling on your thought
As on the forehead of this land.
There is a Body in this shade
Mysterious as the tree’s breath;
You feel it where the moss is laid
Heaped by the centuries on the rock
That is the tombstone of time’s death.
Here 'summer slides with a dark grace
Through veils of cover where it locks
Thickets and ferns in warm embrace;
But like a haunting presence, time
Casts its vast shadow from the rocks.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN HENDERSON.
Earwicker for the Stage
Subtitled “Passages from ‘Finnegans
Wake’ by James Joyce Freely Adapted
for the Theatre,” The Voice of Shem,
by Mary Manning (Faber), consists
of a prologue and six loosely connected
scenes, each a heavily pruned version
of a chapter from the novel.
Its basic setting is the wake of Finne-
gan, the tippling builder in the old
Irish ballad who fell from a scaffold
and was killed, but rose at his wake
when whisky was spilt on his coffin.
Out of this comes Finnegan’s resurrec-
tion as Earwicker; the “Anna Livia
Plurabelle” sequence; Earwicker’s
dreams of himself and his family in
several roles out of history and myth;
and, finally, the end-and-beginning
passage out of the last chapter.
The language of the novel is used
throughout as dialogue, clarified where
possible by the singing of Irish songs;
and much of the action is conveyed by
mime and dancing.
Obviously it is useless to approach
“The Voice of Shem” as a play or
even as an “adaptation.” No one could
make, a play, in the ordinary sense of
the word, out of a novel that provides
no central conflict or situation out of
which drama could be made to grow;
and “Finnegans Wake” is too huge and


RETREAT FROM KOKODA
RAYMOND PAULL
Foreword by
Licutenant-Ceneral Sir Sydney Rowell, K.8.E., C. 8., C.B.E.
Australia’s most vital military crisis fully revealed,
With photographs, diagrams and maps
At all booksellers—3o/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
A New Novel by Gavin Casey —
SNOWBALL
Snowball is the grandfather of a mixed-blood family living on the outskirts of a white
settlement. When his grandchildren grow up and become involved in love affairs with
white people, an explosive situation builds up in the little town of clacking tongues.
17/- (post 7dL)
At all booksellers and ...
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
complex a knot to be unravelled on a
stage in a couple of hours. In fact, it
must be one of the most anti-dramatic
of all novels: essentially and purposely
non-visual, a torrent of allusion and
association in the mind of a sleeping
man.
So, assuming that Miss Manning was
aware of all this, what has she tried
to do?
In a preface Denis Johnston claims
that, since the language of “Finnegans
Wake” yields its sense more easily to
the ear than to the eye, hearing it
correctly intoned by actors would help
us “to leap a great many of the pre-
liminary hurdles, and to enjoy the
general flavor without the aid of any
Keys”; and that Miss Manning adds
much to our understanding of the novel
by showing us “which character is talk-
ing at any given moment, and to
whom,” and the extent to which the
characters double-up with and grow out
of each other.
These claims can be safely dis-
counted. A microgroove recording
would serve the first purpose better,
since the mind would not be distracted
by the movements on-stage; and the
metamorphosis of characters is only a
fraction of the “Finnegans Wake”
puzzle, of which “The Voice of Shem”
is only a fragment anyway.
However, if Miss Manning’s intention
was simply to manufacture a striking
piece of theatre she has in a way been
successful. Her scenes are well con-
structed and seldom static; song and
dance are used intelligently; and
Joyce’s dream-language, especially in
the longer speeches, would probably
emerge from the action like arias in a
strange kind of opera.
In fact, the whole thing seems to fall
somewhere between opera and drama
—though much closer to the former—■
and for that reason could hardly
amount to more than a theatrical
curiosity.
Reviewed Briefly
The Sound of Thunder: Taylor
Caldwell (Collins). This is a long story
about an American family of German
extraction, its central character the
eldest brother who is spurred on to
build a mighty chain of food-stores by
the need to provide for his brothers and
sister, all of whom are believed to be
geniuses. How he comes to dominate
them and they in turn to fear and hate
him is developed as the story progresses,
but it all seems somewhat improbable.
*<*.*-*
The Bitter Glass: Eilis Dillon
(Faber). Young people in Connemara
in 1922 are cut off from their family
by the blowing-up of bridges and
various other activities of rival Irish
armies. The problems they face are
of the most serious nature, but there
is no atmosphere of tension. The
scenery and the local characters seem
authentic and provide the only touch
of realism in a book that is too tenuous
for its subject.
* * * *
The American Earthquake: Edmund
Wilson (Allen). A collection of articles
written between 1923 and 1934, making
a social-political companion to “The
Shores of Light.” There are four short-
stories revealing Wilson’s puzzling flat-
ness in imaginative writing—puzzling
because so much of his reportage reads
like first-rate fiction. Part 2, with its
depression-pictures, is easily the best
section. The pieces are a pleasure to
read for the insight they give into the
fruitful relationship that exists between
literature and journalism in the U.S.A.
* * * *
Point of Return: Margaret Dick
(Heinemann). Stated baldly, this is the
story of a career-woman who falls in
love with her boss and he with her. Its
value lies in the sensitive way the
growth of that love is described.
Though it is unadmitted until the story
is far developed, the intensity of its
impact,is so great that everyone knows
about it though nobody mentions it.
Outward events are woven into the
fabric of the love-story with skill and
truth, and the climax has the force of
inevitability. A first novel, this is
mature in form and expression.
The World Unveiled: Paul Hermann
(Hamilton). An immense and absorb-
ing volume relating in popular style
“the story of exploration from Colum-
bus to Livingstone.” It involves a
retelling of the story of the conquest
of Peru and Mexico by the Spaniards;
a discussion of the Polynesian voyages;
and a full account of Cook. In the
Polynesian chapters Hermann finds
“very weighty evidence” in support of
Thor Heyerdahl’s theories.
* « m m
William Blake (1757-1827): edited
by Martin Butler (Heinemann).
Modestly subtitled “A catalogue of
the works of William Blake in the
Tate Gallery,” this handsomely pro-
duced book is much more than that.
With a foreword by John Rothenstein,
an introduction by Anthony Blunt, a
list of the pictures, a commentary on
each of them, and 74 of them illus-
trated, five in color, it is. simply, an
invaluable book of Blake’s art.
* * * m
Film as Art: Rudolf Arnheim
(Faber). A collection of published
articles broadly classing film as an art-
form. It’s an interesting hypothesis,
and Arnheim puts his case authori-
tatively: in the chapter headed “The
Making of a Film,” for instance, you
come up against “Absence of Spatial
Orientation”—but you’ve had 110 pages
to prepare for it. The book is studded
with photographs, most memorable,
perhaps, the “still” of Charlie Chaplin
with a violin and woebegone expres-
sion to the caption “Music Without
Sound.” -


■
'KYI
m
M
i's
M
■xm
Wi
m
m
■*
1111 l
&P>»
8$ Ifell?
>Cy>y>
>:£:
.:. :". .
£®£:SS:s
~ , a., - ss&r
S-?:*K-:?.itW:?S»S«o881fSc
■
\- Ax? a®
PP
PSP
ii*g&sfiK§£
.■ X~yX-.
'•>•■'-■•. ; - •
Ip;
i 1
m
M&
:
Sji&SiS:
SJS
:A:v
II
££§
'%
; ; A
M
v.>:
■-■ y
Wity shouldn't I go crook?
I know everybody can't have a seat at peak hours.
That's fair enough. And 1 know it isn't the driver's
fault that the trip takes much longer than it should.
You can't blame him for the congested traffic on our
roads these days.
Being a straphanger is bad enough but what really
annoys me is what this traffic congestion is costing me
in cold, hard cash and I don’t even own a car !
Why, only the other day 1 read that the cost of road
transport makes up a substantial, part about a third
of the price we pay for everyday things . . . our
food, our clothing and other essentials. Bad roads,
which cause transport breakdowns and delays, are
one of the main reasons why pur transport costs are
so high. Good roads would reduce these costs. Good
roads would mean lower prices for everybody. No
wonder I would like to see something done to change
the road situation.
We need a blueprint for better roads—NOW!
Roadbuilding is vital to Australia's economic growth.
It is a task of top and urgent priority that must be
tackled now. We have the engineers, the manpower
and the ingenuity to build good roads. What is
urgently required is an Australian National Roads
Authority. Such an authority could submit to the
Federal Government a constructive programme for
the planning, finance, building and the maintaining
of Australia's roads.
Good roads don’t cost . . . they pay!
CATERPILLAR'
n c fO* \
T 187
’caterpillar and
CAT ARE REGISTERED
TRADE MARKS OF
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO.
When yon think of
better roods think of the
big yellow machines
that help build them.
CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
