

The Bulletin
"The Big Rush n —page 32
Wednesday, May 14, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered In Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"A man would go nuts without your company, Octo."


BOOKHLNTJER, Rox 2671, G.1'.0., Sydney-
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
AN AUSTRALIAN ELEVEN
An “Australian Eleven” has been
selected by Penguin Books from works
they have printed which either deal
primarily with Australian matters or
are written by Australian authors.
They include Primitive Art, by
Leonard Adam. Dr. Adam is now
lecturer on cultural anthropology at the
University of Melbourne and has found
time to add to his history of primitive
culture a chapter on the art of the Aus-
tralian aborigine.
Growing Up in New Guinea and
Coming of Age in Samoa are two
works by that remarkable and very
direct observer, Margaret Mead, and
Return to Paradise is James Michener’s
account of his trip to Australia, New
Zealand and New Guinea, interspersed
with his characteristic stories.
What Happened in History is by
Professor Gordon Childe, who died
last year in N.S.W. Another of his
books, The Prehistory of European
Society, written just before he was
killed in an accident in the Blue
Mountains, has been published in the
Pelican series.
Viruses and Man, by Sir F. Mac-
farlane Burnet, director of the Walter
and Eliza Hall Institute and one of
the world’s greatest authorities on
wogs, is a clear and exciting narrative
of research. Hardly anything in the
wog line has up to date defeated Dr.
Burnet, except the common cold-germ,
and the entire universe will be gratified
to know that he is hot on its trail.
In fiction there are The Right
Honorable Corpse, by Max Murray
and Kangaroo, by D. H. Lawrence.
In the juvenile section are Landfall
the Unknown, by Evelyn Cheeseman
and The Meeting Pool by Mervyn
Skipper—a special edition of the
Penguin reprint of 92,000 copies of the
last-named has been bought by the
Malayan Government for distribution
amongst Malay schools. Thus the
Malay child will be getting the native
folk-tales he learnt at his mother’s
knee back in English per medium of an
Australian.
Australian poets will have a look-in
in August when The Penguin Book of
Australian Verse will be forthcoming.
An anthology of twentieth-century
Australian poetry, it has been edited
by R. G. Howarth, Kenneth Slessor and
John Thompson.
A Fiery Particle
Since it is all about fires and fire-
bugs in Australia and abroad and
everybody loves a fire, Fred Lord’s
Fire Alarm (Longmans) will doubtless
sell like hot cakes (if it doesn’t go like
a house on fire) and it seems both use-
less and unkind to throw cold water
on it. But even a popular documentary
book can and should be well
written, clear and well organised, and
it must be said that this is not.
On what grounds, for instance, did
the U.S. authorities manage to make a
murder-charge lie against Abraham
Keshner who, falling among crooks,
decided to burn-down his factory for
the insurance and. by mischance, burnt
with it one of the crooks and a
detective? To a layman it seems that
the charge could be no more than man-
slaughter, and if there is some twist in
American law that makes it murder
surely Lord should have explained the
point.
Again, what exactly were the New
York incendiarists up to when they
stole the antique bureau with the
drawer full of safety-pins? It looks
as if these diabolical thieves had been
stealing antique furniture all over the
place, then burning-down the entire
flats or houses from which it came, so
that the owners would assume the
antiques had been destroyed with the
rest of the contents; but if this is the
case Fred Lord never once clearly says
so. And if it is clear that the criminals
went to prison it cannot be said that
this is stated in lucid—or even gram-
matical —prose: —
In time they had sufficient leisure
behind bars to brood over such small
clues as safety-pins when fire is used
to hide thefts of antiques accidentally
containing them.
What was it, again, that the
incendiarists in Manchester tossed
through the window to the waiting
detective? The present reviewer, after
the most earnest study of this para-
graph. is utterly unable to make-out
whether it was a bus-ticket, a rubber-
band. a lighted cigarette, half-a-dozen
matches, a small piece of celluloid, a
warehouse or an “imponderable
bogey.”
It is a mistaken notion that arson is
necessarily a funny subject which has
led the author into so much awkward
writing. He has one excellent chapter,
not funny at all. on the disastrous
Gippsland bushfires of 1939; but that
is largely written for him by Judge
Stretton, whose memorable report is
quoted at length.
The book might have gained in both
form and depth if Lord had largely
confined it to his own Australian
experiences—the jacket says that for
many years he was a fire-investigation
officer. But for all that, a fire is a
fire, however awkwardly it may be des-
cribed. and the book crackles with fires
from end to end. Nobody could fail to
be interested in such stories as that of
the two small boys in Adelaide who
set their house on fire because “We
wanted enough light to read our
comics”; or the atrocious device of the
man in New South Wales who used a
cat tied to a kerosene-lamp to bum-
down three of his houses; or, remote
though it is, the legend of one Johann
of Linz, a stonemason, who thought-
fully built-in a concealed log behind
each fireplace he constructed, so that
eventually the hous6 would burn-down
and he would have more stone-masonry
to do.
SONG FOR A WREN
Today, to be alone with care
Who hates a crowd, l set my chair
Under some vines when two cock wrens
Came foraging along the fence —
The first in grey, for his red bill
Still showed the yellow of the shell;
His friend l knew—this bird would sing
A song of satin in the spring.
But now how altered! What mishap
Had rubbed the lustre from his cap
And rich black jacket? “Come, sir, tell
A friend why you are down at heel?”
“Friend,” said the bird —a thing so frail
Might be caught-up by any gale
And no one notice . . . “Friend.” said he,
“The season’s not been kind to me.”
“Not kind to you ?” / cried. “My sheep
Produce no wool; the dams dry-up ;
My careful pastures, once so green,
Lie wincing under wind and sun.
“Not kind! And has the hollow south
Sucked hemispheres into its mouth
To whistle just for you, obsessed
By one pin-feather in your breast?
“The sun itself . . Choosing my words,
I paused, my eye upon the bird’s,
When something mocking in his tone
Told me my case was as his own.
But why this lightness? 1 had shared
My sorrow with a tiny bird
And eased my heart. With lidded eye,
He sang; and this is my reply.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
Roy Campbell Again
It can hardly be supposed that Roy
Campbell particularly wanted to write
a guidebook on Portugal, even though
he must have had a lot of anecdotes of
his life on his farm there he wanted to
tell. His trade was poetry, and then
autobiography; and a guidebook seems
merely the sort of thing an author or
(Continued on page 58)


Operators with many years of Tipper-Truck experience
know why the INTERNATIONAL AST62 TIPPER
L_L
p
4*
&
«tr
m
AS-162 with 5 -yard water level tipping body.
Men with a background of many years of tipper operation know the reasons why this big
International AS-162 is today’s best tipper-truck investment. They know that International
Trucks have built into them the manufacturing experience of over fifty years —and the study
of the extra strength and rigidity required by sound tipper design. They’ve heard of “Trial by
Torture”, the toughest of all engineering testing programmes, which proved the AS-162’s
performance long before the big International tipper began working on construction jobs
throughout Australia.
The rugged International AS-162 is especially designed for durability because years of trouble
free work ensures a maximum return for every truck investment. More usable power means
greater speed of operation—quicker turnaround —more money made every hour. When you’re
talking about a new tipper ask the man who knows the tenacious power of the AS-162’s
Australian Black Diamond engine, the easy comfort of the driver-designed cab, the flexibility
of the AS-162’6 two-speed electric shift rear axle. He’ll be sure to suggest you call at once on
your nearest I.H. Dealer or International Harvester Office. They'll show you the way to really
profitable tipper operation.
is
more RUGGED!
moreDURABLE!
tnorePOWERFUL!
The wise truck buyer knows that rated horsepower figures don't tell the whole
story of truck performance. He knows that passenger-car type truck engines must
rev. up to high speeds to pull their loads. It’s the USABLE horsepower that counts
—power available to pull capacity loads without undue strain—at safe, economical
engine speeds.
INTERNATIONAL AS-162 TIPPER FACTS
Wheelbase
Weight of Chassis and Cab
Engine
154'
5,600 lbs.
172'
5.660 lbs.
Australian Black Diamond 264 cu. in. capacity
Maximum B.H.P. of 147 at 3,800 r.p.m.
Maximum Torque of 242 ib.-ft. at 1,800 r.p.m.
Australian Black Diamond Engina.
INTERNATIONAL KH TIPPER TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
fmt—7aa/36C_


The Bulletin
Wednesday, May 14, 1958
Vol. 79—No. 4083
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
JNew Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
FISSION, NOT FUSION
IT is three years since Dr.
Evatt, searching for a means of divert-
ing the attention of the rank-and-file of
Labor from his rare performance at
the Petrov Commission hearings—also a
pretext on which to get his most bitter
critics inside caucus off his back —dis-
covered the Santamaria bogy and pro-
ceeded to pull the edifice of Labor down
about his ears in pursuit of it.
Actually, whatever the influence of
Catholicism in the Labor party —and
it has always been reckoned to be a
considerable influence —it had been
there for years, and did not merely
arise with the entry into politics of
either Mr. Santamaria or Dr. Evatt.
A lot of water has run under the
bridge since Dr. Evatt’s onslaught.
Labor has ceased to be the monolithic
structure which it used to be with a
strictly policed platform and a rigid
•discipline. It has resembled, since the
last Federal and State elections, a small
group of bombed-out families living in
the ruins of a suburban street and raid-
ing each other by night for sustenance.
If Dr. Evatt is still acknowledged as
Federal leader, while a refugee from
his old electorate, it is because at this
stage it doesn’t matter much who is
the political leader, for there is nothing
political to lead towards. Office is
scarcely attainable for Federal Labor,
and it has been proved by the events in
Queensland last year that State Labor
•—whatever its brand—has little more
to hope for.
Victory at the polls, however, might
be a worse disaster than defeat, for
(immediately a Labor Government
came into office in Canberra it would
be subject to pressures from all direc-
tions. While the leadership of the
party is impotent and does not have
to implement its programme—if any—
it does not matter much what alliances
it makes or what causes it supports.
But once in power it would be subject
to the same squeeze as the Scullin
Government in 1930-31 and the Chifley
Government in 1945-49,
Both the Scullin Government and the
Chifley Government were strong in
personalities, but the sins of Ministers,
the schisms of internal A.L.P. politics,
the pinching and prodding of the
powerful Communist unions soon had
the effect of wrecking both of them.
Indeed, had it not been for the war
there would have been no Curtin or
Labor Government for more than a
few months. It, too, would have been
rent to pieces by the ambitious
scramblings of men far stronger and
more militant than the leader himself.
An Evatt Government would not
drift for long. It would be torn apart
if it did not explode before the clutch-
ing hands reached out for it. Dr.
Evatt does not fully realise this, appar-
ently. And his performance in con-
sequence has shown him in a new
light with ambitions as an acrobat and
escapist.
In 1954, having laid charges against
the Menzies Government and Security
organisation which were summarised
by the Petrov commissioners as
“blackmail, forgery, uttering, fabrica-
tion, fraud and conspiracy,” and having
had those charges proved utterly
ridiculous, the learned Doctor sought
to bury the significance of his support
of the Communists and of his utter
irresponsibility before the commission
by unearthing a “conspiracy” inside the
Labor party, a conspiracy which was
alleged to have been hatched by the
very section in religion which had
always had the reputation of being
solidly for Labor, though not neces-
sarily for Evatt.
The atomic fission which followed
destroyed utterly all those nearest to
the explosion, except Dr. Evatt and
his faithful or allegedly faithful
followers within the caucus-room. It
expunged the names of men like T. P.
Burke, of Perth, whom Chifley had
been grooming as a successor before
he showed an anti-Red streak, from
the rolls of Federal “Labor.” It led
to the formation of caves of “antis”
within the caucus who were marked-
down for destruction at the leisure
of the vengeful leadership and who
have been living on compromise in
dark comers ever since, some of them
already doomed through the with-
drawal of nominations or A.L.P.
endorsement, like Dr. Evatt’s old
colleague Cyril Chambers, of Adelaide.
Yet now, on the verge of another
election, having charged all these with
the most diabolical disloyalties. Dr.
Evatt a few weeks ago coolly opened
a campaign of conciliation of which
the ingredients included praise of
individual rebels, including Mr.
Chambers, and overtures to the
Democratic Labor party for re-fusion
or co-operation.
It takes a supple acrobat to change-
over from denunciation of “conspira-
tors” for organising secretly to wreck
the Labor party to bland assurances of
goodwill and trust towards the alleged
culprits. But Dr. Evatt achieved the
change-over from the fission to the
fusion technique without even altering
step in his march tq the Leftist goal.
His overtures have been spurned by
the Democratic Labor party conference
in N.S.W., which has no illusions about
what “co-operation” would mean in
the mind of the A.L.P. leader. They
would have the support of the A.L.P.
executive after they had served their
purpose at the polls in the same way
that the rope supports the hanged man.
The most singular fact about their
approach and about others who have
been ousted from the Labor fold but
have not become “Democrats” is that
they have obviously more confidence
in their own future than in that of
Dr. Evatt.
Chambers, for instance, has gone
out of his way to emphasise that he
will do nothing to damage Labor
chances in Adelaide, even though he
has lost the nomination. This seems
to imply a belief that Labor will be
there when Dr. Evatt isn’t. And the
Democratic Labor party appears to
have discovered, thanks to its
opponent’s insistence on its alliances
with Catholicism, and his denunciations
of Catholic Action, that it is likely to
benefit at the polls by the adherence
of a large bloc of offended religionists.
This trend or development - could
have far-reaching results beyond those
already evident. In two States at least
it will assure the Evatt party of a
formidable voting opposition suffi-
ciently strong to throw some borderline
seats into Liberal hands if the D.L.P.’s
instructions for preferences are fol-
lowed even by half (or a little more)
of their adherents.
Yet in N.S.W. it will embarrass Mr.
J. J. Cahill, who is no Evatt man
(Clive or Bert). He will have to fight
his State campaign—if he is not before
then ensconced in a cushy job in New
York or somewhere—-in one of three
ways: on a, tightrope between the two
warring factions of Left and Right;
in the camp of the Reds with Healy
and Elliott V. Elliott clearly visible on
his back; or with open hostility to the
various A.L.P. juntas and their leaders
and instruments.
It can be taken for granted that
every faction will bid for his political
carcass.
The most intriguing problem for the
Liberal-C.P. coalition must be a
decision as to whether they will hold
the election early or, in the light of
the D.L.P. conference decisions, wait •
to see what happens to the Federal
leadership in the next few months if
present A.L.P. dissensions are allowed
to ripen.




PLAIN ENGLISH
Not Asiatic
Asian developments provide more cause
for concern following each glib v and in-
explicable insistence that Australia is part
of the Asian area.
Nobody ever speaks of Europe as being
in the Asian sphere even though it is
joined to Asia along a frontier which
very few citizens of East or West could
accurately trace.
And nobody suggests that Asia logi-
cally is part of America, or vice versa,
because they are geographically only a
few miles apart.
Australia does not belong either geo-
graphically or otherwise to Asia. It is
2000 miles from the Asian mainland. Its
racial make-up is completely foreign in
nature, thought and tastes to Asia. Its
standards-of-living, its conception of
comfort, of basic culture and religious
outlook, of diversion, of music, are all
foreign to the thought of Asia. It hates
the cruelties, the disregard of human life,
the class-exclusiveness of the tougher
Asian races as much as it has little sym-
pathy with the effeteness of the older
and run-down races of middle South-east
Asia.
Communism propagates with purpose
the idea of Australia’s Asian destiny, of
the inevitable imminence of the day when
the Commonwealth must abandon the
White Australia policy and rest folded
in the arms of a benign Russo-Chinese-
Indian dictatorship of the lands and
oceans east of Suez and west of the
American Pacific Coast.
It is part of the propaganda of the
World Revolution. But unity of nations
is produced not by mere geography—
even if geography in this case were to
support the theory, which it does hot.
It is a thing of common interests, culture
and aspirations.
It is a strange paradox that the very
people who preach our unity with Asia
also preach our duty to drag the down-
trodden Asians by the bootstraps out of
destitution and ignorance, while at the
same time holding them up as the solid
core to which we are attached as an out-
post, and our future at the mercy of
those whom we are told to save.
All our common interests lie with the
great English-speaking races—with the
United Kingdom, the United States,
Canada, with New Zealand and only
secondarily with Asian nations, even with
those now within the British Common-
wealth.
This is true whatever theories those
people with a flair for shock-tactics may
generate.
Australia might,- if weak and isolated,
be overrun by Asiatic invasion or immi-
gration due to the silly loosening-up of
its policies. The white race of Australia
might become helot to Asians, but Aus-
tralia would never be of Asia. And it
need never fear that it will be, so long
as it retains its integrity of interest with
the West, since it is one of the great
strategic bases of the West and becomes
more so every year as rapidity and ease
of communication develop.
The Holford Plan
[By “El Y.“]
Canberra has always been an expen-
sive luxury, but the worst feature about
it has been the fact that most of the
expense was devoted to the temporary.
Everything about Canberra has been
makeshift and for the moment, except
the trees. The result is that beauti-
ful as the national capital can be at
certain seasons, its make-do buildings are
apt to be hidden, and the place is inclined
to look to the travelled stranger either
like the Forest of Arden in autumn or a
Californian cemetery into which the slow-
music apparatus has not yet been fitted.
At the same time Canberra is now an
established fact, though what it might
have been if air-travel had not developed
is another question. Businessmen who
used to regard it as a nuisance have come
to love it as an accessible and quiet
haven, ideal for conference-holding and
the registration of companies harassed by
State Governments.
Now that the civil service has in the
main become not only reconciled but
ready to live in Canberra, the place is
growing at the rate of 900 houses, plus
more pretentious buildings, a year, and
it is estimated that by 1965 it will hold
more than 85,000, and by the turn of
the century it will reach the magnitude
of present-day Ottawa.
It may just as well grow in grace as
in sprawling and uninspiring suburbs full
of rows of dull cottages as at present.
In one aspect, as a demonstration of
what can be done with a dust-ridden;
wind-swept, cold snow-gum valley fit
only on first sight for sheep, it is a symbol
of hope for the emptier parts of eastern
Australia.
The Old World beauty of Duntroon
on a passing-out day, with the trees and
flags and the clean blue of the ranges
in the background, the vistas from
University House, the trees in the parks
around Parliament House turning to gold
in the autumn, and the gardens of
Yarralumla in the spring, are a monu-
ment of loveliness. But for all that,
Canberra’s beauty has so far been
impractical, achieved by ambitious but
largely bureaucratic and un-co-ordinated
minds.
Its streets, diving in and out of the
trees, look as if they had been designed
by a carpet-snake chasing his tail after
a jag. It has had no centre, such as
it was designed to have on Capital Hill.
Sir William Holford’s plan goes back
to the better and almost-forgotten
features which would turn Canberra
from a series of villages like the Tokyo
of 1910 into a co-ordinated city with a
main artery, a ceremonial centre such
as a national capital should have, and
a royal residence, which would provide
a home for the Royal Family when
visiting Australia and a hall of audience
for the Governor-General at other times.
He wishes to restore the lakes
envisioned in the earliest schemes, provide
a Parliament House which lacks the
lugubrious air of the present one due
to its chimneys having been rough copies
of the Whitehall cenotaph, and give civic
amenities which should go with a poli-
tical city and Commonwealth centre.
All this may be an expensive luxury,
but Canberra will continue to be expen-
sive whatever happens, and the country
may just as well have its money’s-worth
in the shape of a capital which it can
exhibit to the world with some feeling of
pride instead of one that is mushrooming
into a muddle of ugly flats round its
civic centre and into large dreary cottage-
areas along the outskirts.
Shepherd's Pie
Nobody, not even the Labor stalwarts
who were there to cheer but did not,
seems to have been impressed with the
policy-speech of Alfred Shepherd, the
Victorian Labor leader, when he opened
the State election-campaign at Footscray
with the Doc. by his side. So un-
inspiring was the performance that the
Doc. seemed flat, too, when he followed.
Shepherd began unconvincingly. It is
an old, old Labor policy-speech pretence
to offer to increase wages and simul-
taneously lower living-costs, and in the
past it has always produced a ringing
round of applause. At Footscray the
promise of the economic miracle was
received in silence.
It was a political error in a State where
the relationship of wages to living-costs
has been spectacularly demonstrated since
the war, painfully indeed, until Bolte
suspended, in his own domain at least,
the automatic rises in wages in 1956,
and the State has since enjoyed stable
costs. Even the Labor diehards at Foots-
cray accepted that one wryly; the
contrary thesis by Bolte, they knew,
would be that he had given the State
economic stability by not raising wages.
His proposal to lower tram-fares (with
the operatives receiving more pay) at a
time when the tramways are operating
each year in deficit also seems unreal,
especially as Bolte froze fares at the same
time as he froze State wages ; it must also
prove difficult to Attack Slum Clearance
at the same time as the Prevention of
the Abolition of Habitable Homes is
enforced.
Some of his proposals are admirable,
including the provision of better oppor-
tunities for higher education, grants for
hospital-building, aid for inmates of
mental institutions, secure homes for
adolescents and, of course, largely
increased State housing. All of these,
however, have to be financed by Can-
berra, so that they remain in the wish-
fully-speaking department.
The speech, proclaimed a family-first
policy, does propose concessions to
families in a rather nebulous form for
which some purse other than that of the
State Treasury would have to meet the
cost, and there is a promise of better bread,
which really would be a boon to Vic-
torians ; but the Labor promise in this
is unconvincing, especially in view of the
Labor chicanery in linking with the
Country party to defeat Bolte’s genuine
Bread Bill.
Aside from the inevitable political


shufflings, Shepherd has been sincere and
thoughtful of the people who may be
expected to vote for him; he has not,
however, produced such stuff as
elections are won on.
Bolte's Chances
In his three-year stint in Victoria, Henry
Bolte has amassed deficits totalling £ll
million, with the railways deficit this
year heading towards £5 million. This is
the only tenable major issue on which
his adversaries at this month’s election
may attack his Administration, and it may
not be practical politics for them to press
it too keenly, since even £ll million is
small beer in comparison with the out-
standing achievement of stabilising the
cost-of-living in Victoria.
This was won largely by the abolition
of the automatic cost-of-living rises,
coupled with a determined effort in keep-
ing down Government-transport costs.
Public gratitude for this may be more
marked at the election than public con-
cern about deficits in the Railways
Department accounts.
The stable costs in Victoria, reflected
in the most recent c.-0.-l. figures once
more, has also made the State most
attractive to overseas firms opening
factories and businesses, another comfort-
ing reflection for the voting Victorian.
His Ministry has given increased
millions each year for hospitals and edu-
cation, has legislated promptly for
the establishment of the Monash Uni-
versity, and has shown an admirable alert-
ness in tackling the minor yet irksome
chores of State government. Most of
the Government’s spade-work was
accomplished in its first two years, and
the last has been devoted chiefly to
consolidation.
In this last year there have been a few
grumbles that the Premier has" been
spending too much time yarning with his
mates in the saddling-paddock, but that
is not the sort of complaint that is likely
to lose votes in a sporting community.
At present the Liberals hold 34 seats in
a House of 66, but they have gained two
reasonably safe seats, Ringwood and
Mulgrave, and the A.L.P. has lost two
in the redivision of seats. Nine of their
present 34 seats are dicky, and the A.L.P.
holds the other four swingers.
The Liberals are confident they will get
the D.L.P. preferences, as officially in-
structed, and that these will return them.
Just on 1,470,000 will be eligible to vote,
and about 30,000 of these will be New
Australians voting for the first time.
On the Air
[From Canberra]
Any hopes the Labor Opposition have
of trying to establish a monopoly of
information in the television and radio
fields will be further diminished by the
passage of new broadcasting amending
legislation by the Senate.
The bill, now before the upper Cham-
ber, will be amended to safeguard the
positions of members of the A.B.C. and
the Australian Broadcasting Control
Board.
The amendments follow suggestions
made by W. C. Wentworth when the bill
was originally before the House of Reps.
He pointed-out at the time that the
deputy-leader of the Opposition, A. A.
Calwell, had stated that if ever he had
the power he would try to establish a
monopoly of information in TV and
radio.
He showed that the bill, as drafted,
gave some protection to radio- and TV-
stations, to the A.B.C. and the Broad-
casting Control Board, but there were
weaknesses which should be removed.
Therewith the Government reviewed
its bill, and now the proposed amend-
ments delete a sub-section of the Act
which empowered the Governor-General
to terminate the appointment of a mem-
ber of the board for inability, inefficiency
or misbehavior ; they substitute a new
clause under which a member may not
be removed from office during his period
of appointment unless each house of
Parliament passes a resolution requesting
the Governor-General to remove him
from office for misbehavior or incapacity.
Another important amendment which
the Senate is expected to pass is a new
section prescribing that the Minister shall
not revoke the licence for a commercial
broadcasting- or TV-station unless he
has first received a recommendation from
the Broadcasting Control Board.
Jekyll end Hyde on TV
The advent of television is likely to create
another revolution in politics in Australia,
following the one already brought about
by radio.
In England and America —curiously
enough, to a lesser degree in the latter
impressionable country —TV already has
had striking reactions. The day of the
pretty boy in politics has arrived, and
the good-looking leadership, with appro-
priate suavity to match, has the edge
on the rugged individualist with no
photogenic qualities who refuses to be
recreated for the screen, and insists on
appearing on it “warts and all.”
It is an even bet that Lincoln would
never have been President of the United
States if he had had to face a TV-election,
and that Disraeli would have been
laughed off the screen unless he had
indulged in an orgy of yellow paint and
make-up generally and had a course of
lectures from an accomplished radio-
uncle.
In other words, TV is a medium which
can be used to falsify, and which, indeed,
presents a temptation to falsify both to
friend and enemy.
Sydney saw two interesting political
telecasts last weekend. One was in the
Malcolm Muggeridge interview with Dr.
Evatt. Dr. Evatt turned-out on the
screen to be anything but his well-known
self; instead, a soft, benign old gentle-
man whom Mr. Menzies would have been
anxious to acquire as a pet and who
seemed to have been made-up both men-
tally and physically to play the role of
Pickwick.
On the other hand, Davis Hughes,
the new leader of the Country party in
N.S.W., whose physiognomy is not so
well known, made an unfortunate first-
appearance from a physical point of
view on the “Meet the Press” session of
Sydney “Telegraph,” on which he was
grilled by three journalist cross-
examiners who, to carry the Pickwickian
simile a little further, seemed to have
studied the art of Sergeant Buzfuz. It was
defeated in this case by Mr. Hughes's
candor and readiness of wit.
Added to this, he was presented in
the raw with a little down-lighting which
made him almost unrecognisable. The
retired, balding pug with a pair of ears
like an African elephant who confronted
TV-listeners was certainly not the per-
sonable, youngish, if slightly hard-bitten-
looking, Davis Hughes whom his friends
and associates know. The only part
about him that was recognisable was his
easy frankness and the ability with which
he handled the tricky questions of his
seemingly-harassing hosts.
The new medium introduces into
politics an element which is full of
strange possibilities.
Jet-age Travel
Creation of a special committee to cope
with the challenge of the jet age will
add immensely to the speed with which
overseas travellers may enter Australia.
Called the National Advisory Facilita-
tion Committee, the new body will con-
sider ways of reducing the time required
for international air-travellers to complete
formalities at Australian airports.
Big, fast-talking Donald G. Anderson,
Director-General of Civil Aviation, is the
leading light behind the venture, which
aims at gradually adjusting Australia to
the advent of jet-aircraft on international
air-services.
The committee has representatives from
the Department of Civil Aviation, the
Departments of Immigration, Customs
and Health and the Bureau of Census
and Statistics.
Qantas will be represented at the com-
mittee’s meetings in an advisory capacity
to the Department of Civil Aviation.
International passenger-travel by air
is expected to double in the next five
years, and large jet-airliners will be intro-
duced on international air-routes to Aus-
tralia next year.
These jet-aircraft can carry up to 150
passengers, about double the number car-
ried by piston-engined aircraft at present
in service, and will almost halve the times
at present taken on various route-sections.
The new aircraft types will mean big
increases in the number of passengers
who have to complete formalities at
international terminals before the de-
parture, or after the arrival, of inter-
national flights.
The National Advisory Facilitation
Committee will consider the problems
associated with this and where necessary
recommend changes in procedures and
the arrangement of facilities for the pro-
cessing of passengers, mails and cargo
through the various controls.
The new committee will make recom-
mendations on matters of Common-
wealth-wide concern in the field of
facilitation.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WTIH WIMBLES INKS"
TIT ANY ring-ins are sung at weddings,
but it was a fair-dinkum hymn that
had the guests gasping and giggling at
a wedding in Sydney: “Fight the Good
Fight,” Afterwards the guests were told
it was the bride’s favorite and not a
challenge to her bridegroom.—“Sunray.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Eureka”: Volume-six of the new
Australian Encyclopcedia is indexed
“Marsupials to Parliament.” Well, here’s
hopping!
♦3* ❖ *z*
“Xavier”: “Steak-’n’-eggs, pleash,”
ordered the maudlin drunk in a city
cafe, not even glancing at the waitress,
whose patchy physiognomy certainly did
not invite inspection. Ten minutes passed
and the girl deposited the feed before the
inebriate. “Thanks,” he said, “yer ’n’
angel.” Then, for the first time gazing
bleakly into the disfigured countenance,
he added quickly, “in disguise.”
»!♦ ♦♦♦
“Joanne”: Roses of Picardy will bloom
in Sydney this year—in the Garden of
Remembrance at Ghatswood. Chats-
wood-Willoughby sub-branch of the
R.S.L. has obtained cuttings from the
Delville Wood (Somme) and other war-
cemeteries in France,. and a Sydney
nursery is caring for them until they can
be transplanted. The Imperial War
Graves Commission got the bushes
at little or no cost to the sub-branch.
There will be 60 reds, 20 whites.
❖ ❖
“Becks”: Communist slogans scrawled
on walls don’t show much variety, but one
seen on the route from Sydney to Mascot
airport strikes a novel note: “Stop
Necular Tests.”
*> ❖
“Bellfield”: If anyone had told us 40
years ago! At that time we were learn-
ing a poem by Ella Wheeler Wilcox which
appeared in the current school-magazine.
One stanza ran :
We came at the dawn of an April day
Which was sweet with the young Spring’s
breath;
But the hounds of hell were waiting there
With a devil's trap of death.
I didn’t know my memory had salted
that verse away ; it came back as I made
one of the crowd reverently inspecting the
wreaths on the Cenotaph in Martin Place
on April 26. There, truly a piece of floral
art, was the Turkish flag and this
caption: “Lest We Forget. From
Turkey.’’ “Hounds of hell,” she called
them.
• •
“J.J.A.”: Our erstwhile Canadian
minister from the snowy wastes of
Winnipeg is headed for Queensland. Can’t
stand our Victorian winter.
♦♦♦ * *
“Jasby”: I’d place the final season of
Cole’s Bohemians in Port Adelaide Town
Hall (B. 7/5/’5B) as the winter of 1916.
It wa9 certainly after the outbreak of
World War I, as one of the bright lads
of our school distinguished himself by
donating wristlet-watches to be raffled
at school bazaars in aid of patriotic
funds, his explanation of his generosity
being that he’d won the watches as “lucky-
ticket” prizes at Bohemian Company
matinees. We thought it rather a coinci-
dence that he’d held the lucky ticket more
than once, but it wasn’t till a year later
that his luck ran out and he appeared in
court as “the boy burglar” on a long string
of housebreaking charges.
❖ ❖
Ilf AGING a losing battle against
■ a piano-tuner plying his trade
next-door, l threw down my pen in dis-
gust and picked-up the daily paper.
An account of Princess Margaret’s
arrival in Trinidad and the musical wel-
come provided by the steel bands took
my mind back to a Port-of-Spain suburb.
Here we had no sooner congratulated
ourselves on having rented a comfort-
able house in a quiet neighborhood when
a steel-band instrument-tuner took-up
residence in a tapia hut halfway up the
hill behind us. It took him a little over
three weeks to send us back to the
hotel, nervous wrecks ; a marvellous feat
of endurance on our part when you
consider that his tools of trade were a
hammer and .a cold-chisel, and the
instruments he tuned were 44-gallon
oil-drums! —“Keskedee.”
SUPPLEMENTALITY
You ought to be a supplement
Where advertising lads
Could plaster to their hearts’ content
Their double-column ads.
Your folly wouldn’t matter, then,
And your vacant face
Would challenge copy-writing men
To fill the empty space.
"I've got some bad news for you , Harry. I've fallen in love with this
gentleman who came to sell us TV."
What, though your expert gossip halts,
Your newsy specials bore ?
What, but to supplement such faults,
Is advertising for ?
So don’t ask what the supplemeant
You’d find to your surprise
The advertiser is the gent.
Who pays to advertise!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


WADING through files of old corres-
pondence, I’ve just struck a secret-
ary of a branch of that august
body, the Royal Society, writing to an
applicant for membership who had
given his address as care of a city hotel.
Very tactfully the secretary explains
that membership of the R.S. is confined
to people who have made some definite
contribution to learning and suggests
that that application has been made “in
error.” More letters: it tums-out that
the applicant is boarding at that hotel;
he has arrived from Britain, and he has
done some original research-work, but
his handwriting is bad. On his applica-
tion for membership he has given his
occupation as “Writer,” but the secretary
has misread it as “Waiter!” —“Archaen.”
+%* *t+
“Miss M.”: What is a Tasmanian (B.
26/3/’58)? Merle Oberon, the film-star,
for one. At least, a U.S. magazine tells
me that she was born on “the French-
Dutch island of Tasmania.”
**♦
“S.”: The bits of information that the
dailies put in among the rapes and murders
to fill-up a column are always delightful;
and there was something about this bit
from Sydney “Sun” that struck me as
really sublime:
WASHINGTON. —Stalactites hang down
from a cave roof; stalagmites grow up
from a cave floor.
Fancy them discovering that in Wash-
ington !
* * *
“Jock”: David McEwan’s Pipe Band,
o’ Newcastle (N.S.W.), did its bit on
Anzac Day. Its members played at
Belmont dawn-service, had breakfast, then
travelled more than 70 miles to Muswell-
brook for the ex-servicemen’s march
there. Later, at Aberdeen, the band piped
at a remembrance-service and a concert.
A glutton for punishment was Pipe-
major C. Wynne. A shift-worker, he had
to be at his job at midnight.
• •
“Bo”: As a student of ballistics and
dynamics I was interested in the finding
by a German doctor that the sneeze
attains a muzzle-velocity of 53 m.p.h.
Leaving aside number of decibels
attained, displacement of air per cubic-
foot of sneeze-propulsion, number of
microfarads at the point of explosion,
or ratio of ergs to the megaton-unit at
expulsion-maximum, hasn’t the doc. for-
gotten that a sneeze is a double-barrelled
action and that this would necessarily
have an overall effect on the total muzzle-
velocity, actually doubling it?
♦++ +jt
“P.0.M.C.”: As to young Old Diggers
(B. 30/4/’5B). Born December, ’99,
making me 58, I saw two years’ service
with the First A.I.F. overseas. Comple-
ment of transport in which I sailed
numbered 1100 troops (including several
Anzacs going back after furlough for
another crack) of an average age of just
over 19 years. Novelist Vance Palmer,
also a Digger but older than most of us,
edited our ship’s newspaper, “Barambah
Battler.”
❖ *** *>
“Roomy 7 ’: The A.B.C. reporter was
interviewing the U.S. Navy captain about
the weapon his ship carried. Though
the reporter referred to it as a “missyle”
in every other sentence, the captain stuck
to his guns, coming back each time with
“missil.” Shouldn’t the U.N. Security
Council issue a guiding missive to prevent
this kind of international misunder-
standing?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Fontaine”: She was about to marry,
so the girls at the office presented her
with a portable electric-lamp plus an
ultra-modern lampshade. She said the
gift wouldn’t go with the color-scheme
of her living-room, asked them where
they’d bought it, took it back to the
shop and reappeared with another lamp
and shade. “This is much more suitable,”
she told them. “Of course, it’s a little
dearer. Actually, it will cost you girls
another pound.”
* * *
“Narumee”: I was another of those
surgical cases which overflowed into a
maternity-section (B. 30/4/’5B), but I
didn’t realise the fact, because they
bunged me into a private ward, and
rammed some kind of pre-anaesthetic
dope down my throat. Wakened by
ungentle shaking next morning at dark
dawn, I meekly sat-up and sipped at the
huge beaker of lukewarm milk thrust into
my hand. The nurse looked impatiently
at her watch: “Do hurry—the babies’ll
be up in a minute!” Clouded memory
dragged me back some 13 years,
and I spluttered: “Hey—l’m not going
to have another baby!” Even doped I
thought it was funny, but Nursie wasn’t
amused. “Well, really,” she snapped, “if
you’re the nine-o’clock op. you could’ve
told me before you hogged half that
milk!”
*> *** ♦♦♦
“Alma”: Seeing her next-door neigh-
bor setting-out for the township, Mrs.
Kelly toddled over and asked her to get
her a sympathy-card. “Goodness,” sym-
pathised the neighbor. “Not bad news,
Mrs. Kelly?” “No, love, but old Mrs.
O’Shea down the road is real sick, and
I always think it’s best to be repaired,
don’t you?”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Postie”: A headline over a story by
a Brisbane racing-journalist: “Wiggle
Toey After Blitz By Mossies.” Wiggle
is a Sydney filly named after a Miss
Monroe, whose gait Wiggle is said to
resemble, and Queensland mosquitoes are
guaranteed to make Marilyn’s most cele-
brated picture, the one on the calendar,
violate the statute requiring immobility
of nudes.
»> *:♦
“Mac Hoots”: I must say I sympathise
with S.M. “Herald” in the dilemma in
which Malcolm Muggeridge placed it by
saying, quite rightly, that T. S. Eliot’s
“The Cocktail Party” is “a bore.” On
the one hand, “Granny,” as the leader
of the advance-guard in Sydney, is
devoutly attached to Eliot; on the other
hand, since Muggeridge writes for her,
he can’t possibly be wrong. So, obviously
shaken to the core, she wrote the most
agonised leader, sitting with extreme pre-
caution on both sides of the fence. On
“ Suddenly , on came the dancing-girls .”


the one hand, she said, poets of the
advance-guard are always misunder-
stood; on the other hand, people are
liable to overrate what they do not under-
stand, so there is a great need for a
forthright critic like Muggeridge ; on the
other hand, again, the advance-guard was
quite right in applauding “The Cocktail
Party"; but still somehow there was a
grea need for the crittc. The last pa
of it didnt quite seem to follow but
at leas Granny got herse f out or
half-out, of a very awkward situation.
G.L.H. : The sketch (B. 30/4/ 58)
of a shack with TV brings to mind what
Sir Richard Boyer was reported to have
said: that the majority of sets were to
be found among the pooter people. On
a train-journey through Macdonaldtown
(Sydney) I saw three fV-aenals on three
consecutive residences with a frontage
of about 12ft. 6in. Next house missed-
out, and then another set. Further
inspection showed TVs as thick as hairs
on a donkey, the like of which I have
seen nowhere else.
♦♦♦ **♦ *>
“Orace”: As “Sevenelms” (B. 12/3/’5B)
says, not all W.R.A.N. drivers were reck-
less, but I met one at an inland station
who rushed in where angels feared to
tread. After several months of impec-
cable driving the rot set-in. First the
station-utility was scraped against the
entrance-gates, and a few days later the
staff-car lost a wing in conflict with a
lorry. Then it was the utility’s turn again,
this time stopping a couple of feet too
late at the railway-crossing gates. There
was the inevitable inquiry, and eventually
the C. 0., Old Rings, demanded an
explanation. The lady plucked-up
courage: slowly, simply, impossibly, she
said: “Sir, I was just too languid to be
bothered.”
❖ ❖ *
“Bagot”; The advert, in my paper-
of Sketches by Boz (Leeds,
not u i, imdy die !
' throats
wi(h one dose _ typhus with , w 0 doses>
diphtheria with three doses, scarlet-fever
with four doses, dysentery witji five doses.
Price; Is. per bottle.”
*** *** ***
“0.W.W.”; This may be the jet-age,
ut p eace f u j Palmerston North (N.Z.)
a c jtj zen complains he can’t listen to
phone conversations, radio or carry-on
household chatter, even “behind closed
doors,” because a man flies a model
plane in his garden, 14 houses away.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Mac Leigh”: Staying at a country
pub over the weekend I commented to
the publican on the strict observance of
the licensing-laws there. “Aw,” said
Bung, “it’s all the fault of that smart-
alec of a ganger. He was playing euchre
in the big parlor with a couple of other
blokes and the new John. There were a
few about and they were watching the
game to see how the new bloke went,
The John was dealing and the ganger
had first say, and before he could open
his mouth the copper said: ‘A loner ;
just what we wanted to go out.’ Well,
“She wants to become a member of our morning Shopping , Gossip and
Slander Group."
the ganger, Alec, being too damn’ smart to
know what was good for himself, said:
‘l’ll bet a quid you don’t go alone.’ The
new fellow threw a quid on the table
and Alec covered it and then ordered
him ur. The cop might’ve taken it
better if Alec had had any trumps at all,
but that’s how it was, and he hasn’t let-
up on me since.”
*J* *l*
“Lignum”: Nibbling our chocolate in
the pictures, we agreed that there was
an added but not-so-agreeable flavor.
“Lights-on” revealed “weasels” (B.
2/4/’5B), so we carted it back to the
shop. The elderly lady, peculiar to
suburban shops in those days, on being
shown the remaining two-thirds of the
large bar she had sold us, calmly
remarked, “What’s the difference? It’s
all chocolate— they were bred and fed
on it!”
♦++ ***
“Double X”: The Yanks are still one
jump ahead of us, as, although we
have caught-up with them on canned
beer, they are now canning wine. Imagine
Chianti without its flask, or Lieb-
fraumilch without its little basket, or the
wine-waiter going through his ritual with
a magnum of bubbly out of a can, or
one of the boys, Maj.-Gen., retd.,
renouncing the privilege of impressing
his sugar-baby with “Dammit, waitah, the
wine’s cawked!”
SNOZZLE-SHIFTS
“A leading plastic-surgeon says that almost
as many men as women seek his services for
the reshaping of their noses,”
Though Nature decreed you’d be born
With a conk you could me as a horn
(So upward it’s curving),
No balance preserving,
Rough-hewn, not remotely “as worn,”
Or simply a putty-like blob —
To reshape that bugle (or nob)
And give it some beauty
Is really your duty.
It could mean a rise in your job !
The selection you have’s pretty wide,
And the choice is all yours to decide:
It depends upon whether
You’d look tough as leather,
Or saintly, or so dignified.
Would you sport one that’s pointed and
long?
Slightly curved (it denotes you are strong)
Modelled, say, on Clark Gable?
Then hop on the table!
From girls, then, you won’t get the gong.
Yet, if change you would yearn for, but
find
That the variant you have in mind
Will be very extensive
And prove too expensive,
Don’t be to depression resigned.
You can have it done free —just appear
In a crowded pub. Then, with a sneer,
(After on his foot treading
And elbows a-spreading)
Just swipe a big truck-driver’s beer !
S.W.K.


Bo’s Glossary
of gardening terms and phrases
Thrips: Members of the
order Thysanoptera which dis-
play such a touching gratitude
by returning year after year
to avail themselves of the free
board-and-lodging you supply
annually by planting-out your
gladioli-bulbs, fully confident
that their health and welfare
will be once again duly pre-
served by your habit of only
spraying the plants with D.D.T.
immediately prior to either
torrential rain or the onset of
a hurricane.
Tups: A smaller but equally
omnivorous species of thrips.
The advantage of these is that
they are able to crowd more
on to the leaf-stem than thrips,
giving a much more pleasing
appearance.
Plant: A carefully-selected
site which will hold at least
two of the best, preferably in
that part of the garden near
which the wife is least likely
to wander.
Compost: The heap of
weeds, vegetable - peelings,
grass-clippings, etc., to which
has been added from time to
time during your absence from
the home nail-polish bottles,
cut-off dress-hems, porridge,
old kapok, the batch of scones
that caught on the bottom, etc.,
and which you’ve been intend-
ing for the past 18 months to
spread over the garden to add
the necessary humus.
Pruning: The art of cutting-
back roses, fruit-trees and
shrubs in such a way that
several weekends of work will
result in a fine crop of pitying
stares from all the neighbors.
Bumper Crops: Crops that
aren’t worth a bumper, by
reason of the fact that the only
time you ever achieve one
invariably coincides with the
raising of phenomenal crops of
the same vegetable by all your
nearby friends, who do their
damnedest to foist on to you
the same surplus that you are
trying to foist on to them.
Trailing Plants: A good
example of these are the
dahlias which you said you
simply must stake when they
got to a height of 18 inches,
and which now, at six or seven
feet, are travelling horizontally
along the ground, and the
stems of which snap-off when
you try belatedly to bring them
to the perpendicular.
A Fine Tilth: The running-
through-the-fingers condition
of the soil which all the writers
of gardening-notes in the
Sunday papers agree is essen-
tial ' to the satisfactory grow-
ing of anything, a condition
which marks the soil of the
neighbors on each side of you,
and which you could easily
parallel if you liked to take
the trouble to bash into your
sods with a mattock.
Grafting: What your missus
expects you tb be doing on
Sunday morning instead of
sitting on the back of your
neck in a deck-chair in the sun
reading the sporting-results.
Weeds: All the male rela-
tives who cast-up at your place
at the weekend and follow you
around the garden as you
work, and who are apparently
too debilitated to take off their
coats and give you a hand.
Pests: Heading these are fhe
kids whose football lands
unerringly on the patch of
lettuce-seedlings you’ve just
planted-out; the know-all who
tells you to dig-in lots of lime
around your azaleas and
rhododendrons so as to keep
the colors in the pink tones,
and when they all turn-up their
toes cheerfully says he meant
the hydrangeas ; and the bloke
who lets lantana, blackberry
and privet grow unchecked on
his side of the fence; then,
when he gets a mad fit and
hacks them all out from his
side, and those that have come
through the fence and suckered
on your side eventually duck
back into his place, he goes
crook on you for growing such
noxious things and constituting
yourself a menace to a good
gardener. i ~
Transplanting: The act of
putting seedlings out into their
permanent positions in the bed
from their boxes about three
hours before a heat-wave
arrives.
Pollination: What the bees
do to everybody’s pumpkins
but yours, which, anyway,
constitute themselves the freaks
of the vegetable-world by pro-
ducing only male flowers.
Choko: A climbing species
of alleged vegetable which your
wife loves but you detest, and
which, after you have yielded
to constant pressure and put
one in near the side
fence, is seized by a
mad and uncontrollable urge
to hurdle the palings and
run riot over your neighbor’s
domains, as a consequence of
which you are forced to sneak
out like a thief in the night and
surreptitiously haul' the thing
back on your side.
Late Blight: See Early
Blight.
Early Blight: See Late
Blight.
Hardy Perennials: This,
another, of the more vicious
garden-pests, has special appli-
cation to the fellow-gardener
who tells you about the jam-
melon he grew just before he
left his last suburb, and which
was so big he couldn’t get his
arms around it.
Liquid Fowl-manure: A
plant-booster first discovered
by the Chinese agriculturist
Pong Hi, whose honored name
gives it its alternative title.
The reason plants treated with
it (it must be left for at least
a month for it to be really
effective) shoot-up towards
the sun with such celerity is to
get as far away from the smell
as they can. •
Bulb: A tuberous growth
formed with layers of fleshy
scales, which you never miss
spearing with the tines of the
fork when at the end of the
flowering season you dig it up.
Crop-rotation: Refers to the
optical illusion induced shortly
after a gardener has had a
crack at his plant (q. v.).
Sucking-pests: See also Bar-
fly-
Leaf-scorch : This condition,
often seen in strawberry-plants,
occurs immediately after the
gardener has trodden while
wearing slippers on the up-
turned prongs of the rake he
had thrown-down carelessly on
the lawn and which has then
sprung speedily to the vertical
and flattened his nose.
Grass-seeds: The expensive
stuff you sowed the day before
the record rainfall of three
inches in an hour washed it all
into the rose-beds.
Creeping Bent: A type of
lawn-grass that so perfectly
describes your progress as you
try to rid the damned stuff of
oxalis, Parramatta-grass, onion-
grass, nut-grass, fat-hen,
clover, paspalum, etc.
Weed-control: There is no
Weed-control.
Canes: The elongated
laterals of climbing roses which
develop the strange attribute
of being able to double their
thorn-capacity to each lineal
foot immediately they are cut-
off by the pruner and just
before they coil themselves
with malevolent intent around
his neck in a steel-spring
action.


POLITICAL POINTS
Calwell talked to an Australian-Italian
Labor Council meeting in industrial
Richmond (Vic.) for three minutes —in
Italian. His audience, who probably don’t
care who runs Canberra provided they get
plenty of work, had arranged the meet-
ing to ask for the more rapid reuniting
of sections of families with the spare-
parts left behind, but Arthur couldn’t
help talking about the D.L.P.
He got-off a good witticism, too; said
it stood for Disguised Liberal Party, but
some of his audience feJt it wouldn't
amuse Giuseppe, still waiting in Milan.
In his “Man to Man” broadcast last
Wednesday the P.M. spoke of the
frustrating effects of Continual deadlocks
between the two Houses of Parliament.
He said the double-dissolution provision
was not very satisfactory and it would
be much better to get “some quick means
of settling differences and getting on
with the business of the country.”
It is believed that the alLparty
committee that has been reviewing the
Constitution intends to recommend that
deadlocks should be resolved by joint
sittings of the two Houses. This would
necessitate an amendment of the Con-
stitution by referendum, which could be
held concurrently with the next Federal
election.
• •
Davis Hughes becomes the new leader
of the N. S. Wales Country Party in
succession to Mick Bruxner, who has
retired after 26 years as head of the
party. Hughes is 47 and has been M.L.A.
for Armidale since 1950. Before entering
Parliament he was deputy-headmaster
of The Armidale School and an aider-
man of Armidale council, with two terms
as mayor. In World War II he served
six years with the R.A.A.F., reaching the
rank of squadron-leader.
C. B. Cutler, M.L.A. for Orange
since 1947, is the new deputy-leader, the
former deputy, S. D. Dickson (Temora),
having decided to follow his chief’s
example and make way for a younger
man. Cutler is 40 and has been in
Parliament since he was 29.
• •
Tongues and microphones are work-
ing overtime in western Queensland as
zero-hour approaches for the three candi-
dates for the Flinders by-election on
May 17. For all of them this is a
repeat-performance ; the only difference
is that at the general election last year
there was a fourth trier, C. Corney, who
stood as an Independent and polled 225
votes. The votes of his supporters will
be a big factor this time ; so will those
of the 378 new enrolments. For the
rest, there’s the question of how much
the Q.L.P. vote has declined, how much
the A.L.P. has won back from it and
whether nine months of Nicklin Govern-
ment his strengthened Lonergan’s
following 'in the electorate.
Figures at the last election were:
Lonergan (C.P.), 1441 ; Forde (A.L.P.),
1440; Katter (Q.L.P.), 1079 ; Corney
(Ind.), 225. The election was declared
void on the application of Forde.
• •
Vic. Opposition-leader Shepherd has
taken a leaf out of Cahill’s book and is
offering as election bribes equal pay for
the sexes and restoration of automatic
quarterly adjustments of wages. The first
may win him some votes, but he isn’t
likely to be called upon to put it into
practice ; his chances of a straightout
majority in the new Parliament are very
slim and even if the state of parties
enabled him to do a deal with the
Country party, equal pay would hardly
be one of the terms of the compact. As
to quarterly adjustments, these can work
two ways. Last quarter the index-figures
for Victoria were steady, and it’s any-
body’s guess whether the next move will
be up or down,
• •
Australia and the United States will
jointly operate Wilkes station, the
American scientific base in the Australian
Antarctic Territory,! after the close of the
International Geophysical Year. The
arrangements are that America will con-
tribute all the buildings, facilities and
supplies remaining at the base at the
end of the year. Australia will provide
logistical and administrative services to
operate The station. Scientists from both
countries will man the base.
* •
The 20-member Legislative Council of
S.A. will miss well-informed Collier
Cudmore, whose quarter-century Parlia-
mentary innings is being ended by his
retiring “because two severe war-wounds
are affecting me in an accumulative way.”
A lawyer, Cudmore was earlier a partner
with Sir Herbert Mayo, now a Justice of
the S.A. Supreme Court, and Sir Stanley
Murray.
• •
It is clear from his policy-speech that
all Sir Herbert Hyland expects his
Country party to do in the Victorian
election is to hold enough seats to 'keep
its corner warm and its—er —bargaining-
power strong.
Many of his aims are designed to
make the country voter feel he is a
special citizen and that State prosperity
is divisible: opposition to rail-freight
increases; new road-works not at the
cost of country municipalities; low-
rental Government flats in the country ;
more of the petrol-tax for country
authorities.
More soundly he proposes to improve
country water-supplies; establish a land-
development section of the Agricultural
Department; make health - benefits
uniform; establish country killing-
centres and expand agricultural-research
work.
• •
“M.W.”: Who decides who the big
nations are, and which should attend a
summit conference? The question is
prompted by the present state of France.
Why on earth should France today be
entitled to sit as an equal at meetings
supposed to discuss and, if possible, settle
world affairs? She can’t even manage
her own.
• •
In spite of the present slump in world
shipping plenty of new ships are being
built or ordered. British shipbuilders
ha\e on their books orders worth more
than £9OO million sterling for 765 ships
totalling more than 6|-million tons. In
the 12 months to last March orders were
booked for 207 new merchant ships
amounting to a million' gross tons.
• •
While some political tipsters see Eddie
Ward as Federal Labor’s next leader,
plenty prefer Arthur Calwell’s chances
of selection if the Doc. goes down at
the end of the year for his fourth succes-
sive defeat. Whether Evatt would resign
voluntarily, of course, is a matter for
argument. In the meantime, kites are
being flown for a South Australian pro-
posal that the Federal leader should be
elected by the Federal conference and
not by Caucus.
• •
Sidelights on Liberal preselection
ballots for N. S. Wales Assembly
candidates:
Ryde: J. Hedge, one of the unsuccess-
ful candidates, has asked for a fresh ballot
on the grounds that one candidate, Gordon
Jackett, was ineligible to contest the
ballot. Earlier, Hedge alleged that jour-
nalist I. H. Miller, the successful candidate,
had twice said in public that he had the
full support and approval of the managing-
director of the “Daily Telegraph,” Mr.
Frank Packer, and had the finance for the
election campaign.
Blacktown: J. A. Clough, sitting mem-
ber for Parramatta, decided to switch to
Blacktown, since redistribution is seemingly
a safer bet for the Libs. He missed the
nomination, which was won by Alderman
A. H. Dennis from a field of eight.
Ashfield-Croydon: Contrary to Liberal
practice, but with sound commonsense,
two candidates have been endorsed for this
seat, which combines two electorates in the
present Assembly. R. W. Murden is the
sitting member for Ashfield, and D. B.
Hunter represents Croydon. By mutual
consent they asked the preselection
committee to adopt this course, leaving
the electors to decide between them.
Hurstville: Alderman H. R. Mallard
won the nomination for Clive Evatt’s
Hurstville seat. He’s a member of Hurst-
ville council and a former mayor.


Seems there won’t be any need to
provide pensions for retired Federal
M.P.s much longer. Overseas clients
of a Canberra agent are apparently pre-
pared to see that they’re all adequately
provided for.
• •
Following the example set by the N. S.
Wales Labor Government and the Chris-
tian Brothers’ College, the Air Force As-
sociation is organising an art-union with
the Seabreeze Hotel at Tom Ugly’s Point
as- first prize. The pub.’s value is set at
£240,000; the association plans to sell
680,000 tickets at £1 each and hopes to
make a profit of £250,000. No matter
whether they’re run by Church, State,
ex-servicemen’s association or little green
men from Mars, these monster lotteries
are bad.
• •
The Doc. intends to make an appeal
to D.L.P. supporters over the heads of
their leaders, telling them that “if they
want to vote for a Labor party, and vote
for the Democratic Labor party, which
is split-off from us, they should give us
their preferences.” This assumes that all
D.L.P. voters are former supporters of
Labor. It is most unlikely that this is so.
Comparison of voting figures before and
since the advent of the D.L.P. suggest
that a considerable proportion of them
are Liberals to whom the Doc.’s appeal
will be addressed in vain.
• •
So the Russians are going to invent
plastics and nylon?
• •
Adaminaby Dam, in the Snowy.
Mountains scheme, has been completed
by U.S. engineers Kaiser-Walsh-Peririi-
Raymond two years ahead of schedule.
A striking effort. But the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Public Works, which began the
project, does not seem to be to blame
for all the early delay prior to the switch
to U.S. contractors. Plans as to capacity
of the dam and the position of the
tunnel were changed by the Authority,
causing delay, confusion and extra work.
An Australian observer has said that the
Public Works control “covered the most
difficult period of dam-construction —i.e.,
clearing-up the river-bed, placing the first
few feet and training operators and staff.”
o •
Menzies was reported to have raised
the ire of some Country-party men by
saying on the air that he didn’t regard
the Treasurership as being necessarily a
C.P. portfolio. Why should it be?
Earle Page and Fadden between them
kept the nation’s books and eashbox for
a long period, but in between there were
U.A.P. and Liberal Treasurers in joint
Governments.
• •
Dr. Ovenstone, of the Salisbury (S.A.)
Weapons Research Establishment, says
that electronic data-processing machinery
is now “plotting the behavior of missiles
without their being fired.” This is the
most encouraging piece of information
released for years. If the idea is followed-
up World War 111 could be fought
entirely at the data-processing level. No
bloodshed ; no H-bombs ; no bayonets ;
no destruction of cities. Each side would
merely have to feed its data into the
machines and the electronic brain would
announce the winner.
• •
Victorian Labor isn’t following the
Federal example of giving its second
preferences to the D.L.P. in all seats. At
the State election on May 31 this will
be the general rule, but in 13 metropoli-
tan seats the Libs, will be placed second.
These are seats in which the D.L.P. can-
didates either “crossed the floor of the
House to defeat the Cain Government,
MOTHER FADDEN'S CUPBOARD
or supported this action, or have taken
a very active part in attempts to destroy
the A.L.P.” In country electorates the
Country party will be placed above the
Libs, on the Labor card.
• •
Defence Minister Mcßride, who has
announced his intention of retiring from
politics at the close of the present Parlia-
ment, was first elected to the Reps, in
1931 as member for Grey (S.A.). In 1937
he transferred to the Senate. After six
years in the Senate, during which he
had his first Ministerial experience—
Commerce, Army, Repat., Supply and
Development and Munitions —he was
defeated in 1943. Three years later he
was back in the Reps, as member for
Wakefield (S.A.) and has held the seat
ever since. When the Menzies Govern-
ment came into office in December, 1949,
he became Minister for the Interior and
succeeded Eric Harrison as Minister for
Defence in October, 1950. He has held
that portfolio ever since, and in addition
has at various times been in acting-con-
trol of half-a-dozen other departments.
• •
Minister for Holt has often been
accused by his own side of being too
soft with the wharfies and other mili-
tants, so it’s rather ironical to hear Evatt
accuse him of deliberately provoking
industrial unrest as an electioneering
stunt. The Doc. said Holt had grossly
misrepresented the Hursey case and in
his dealing with the W.W.F. had played
“the dirtiest series of tricks on a union
that has ever been played.” Now who’d
have thought that Harold could be as
tough as that? And against tough-nut
Jim Healy, too!
• •
Only one Victorian in 10 is in favor of
live-bird trapshooting, according to a
Gallup poll; people on farms, in country
towns and in Melbourne, Liberal and
Labor, voted very solidly against it. So
the sport is expected to be outlawed by
legislation, as it is in other States, in the
first weeks of the new Parliament, what-
ever Government is returned at the
elections this month.


When's a
fiighi to smi YOU!
Whenever you travel,'wherever you travel, there’s always a
TAA VISCOUNT flight to suit you. For your convenience,
TAA operates daily round-the-clock Viscount flights, between
all states. From as far north as Cairns, to Hobart in the south,
right across the nation to Perth, in the west, you can fly TAA Viscount
More people fly TAA- the friendly
way
Reservations: TAA Booking Offices in all States or any authorised Travel Agent.
NPVBtV
PERSONAL ITEMS
This year’s Anzac Day march in Kal-
goorlie was led by popular goldfields
identity, Jack Carroll, V.C., who travelled
from Perth to Kalgoorlie for the occasion.
Jack won his V.C. at St. Ives, France,
in 1917. About midway between the
world wars, injury in an accident
deprived him of half a foot, but neither
distance nor disability has prevented him
from marching every Anzac Day for the
past 40 years.
• •
The flower in the hand of David Watts
was put there by artist Aria as a sort
of tribute to David’s calling—he owns
the Betty Davies of London florist busi-
ness in Sydney’s Victoria Arcade —and
to that interesting organisation, Inter-
flora : he was a founder of the Australian
company four years ago, and is a vice-
president.
Outside business his tastes are
catholic. He likes good books, good
paintings (he’s an admirer of Norman
Lindsay), good food (member of the
Food and Wine Society) and also sport:
watches cricket, represented The King’s
School, Parramatta, and Jesus College,
Cambridge, at Rugby Union (a contem-
porary at both places was The Bulletin
poet and short-story writer David
Campbell) and nowadays plays golf at
the Royal Sydney. A good mixer, he has
lived abroad and has both town and
country associations in Australia; his
mother was Daisy Willsallen, of the well-
known pastoral family ; his father, Lt.-
Colonel B. A. G. Watts, D. 5.0., was one
of the cadre of young Permanent Army
leaders killed in War 1.
The story of Interflora, as David tells
it, is a fascinating one. It began in the
U.S.A. (where the organisation is known
as the Florists’ Telegraph Delivery Asso-
ciation) in 1909, with the simple idea of
an agreement between florists which
would enable a florist to accept an order
in one town and execute it in another,
by sending a telegram. Since then it
has grown enormously—the F.T.D.A.,
for instance, is among the 10 biggest
companies in the U.S.A.—with 19 clear-
ing-houses, the main ones being in
London, Detroit, Michigan, and Zurich.
The problem of fluctuating currency was
solved by inventing special currency,
INTERFLORA
called “fleurins.” If an Australian florist
sends an order to Paris, for instance, he
instructs the French florist to fill the
order to the value of so many fleurins.
The French florist then converts the
fleurins to its equivalent in French
money. So flowers are the only com-
modity which can move freely in the
modern world.
S. H. Ekefalk and Erik Ryd have been
appointed deputy managing-directors of
Atlas Copco A. 8., the Swedish firm of
compressed-air equipment manufacturers
with a branch at Auburn (N.S.W.).
• •
Sighted in Sydney last week Cecil
Chrystal, well-known at Castle Crag,
where his was, the first home built after
the war. A fourth-generation Australian,
born at Cootamundra (N.S.W.), Cecil
was with the 2/4th Battalion in War 11.
and went from Egypt to Benghazi; later
he was in Greece and Crete, and was
evacuated from Crete in the Dido.
e •
Dublin-born Derek Clark, aged 31,
has become the South Australian man-
ager of the Shell Co.—the youngest
on record to hold the job.
o ®
Rollo Gillespie: It is proposed to
form an Australian branch of the Regi-
mental Association of the South Wales
Borderers (24th Foot). Will anyone of
the 24th write to me, c/o The Bulletin?
« •
“R.R.D.’*: Jan van der Kley, who is
in charge of the splint-shop at The
Spastic Centre, Mosman, Sydney, left
Holland as an infantry soldier in 1945
for the Netherlands East Indies, was
wounded in Molucca (a broken spine
means that he must always wear a
surg.cal-jacket) and in hospital in Singa-
pore helped the orthopaedic surgeon
with some jobs in the workshop. He
was due to be invalided back to Holland,
talked th« doctors out of that, and was
sent back to Java —not as a foot-soldier,
but as an orthopaedic craftsman. He
enjoyed the work and, after his discharge
from the Netherlands Army, stayed on
in Djakarta doing the same work, and
later started his own business at Medan.
He came to Australia with his family
in October, 1951, speaking not a word
of English, worked for 18 months in a
factory, saw an advertisement in the
paper one day for an orthopaedic crafts-
man at The Spastic Centre, and has been
there ever since, making orthopaedic


appliances for spastic children. His
main interest is the centre, but he paints,
too—landscapes and portraits.
• . •
At the recent Queen’s Birthday cele-
brations in Hong Kong a contingent of
450 officers and men of the Royal Aus-
tralian Navy formed part of the naval
contingent in the combined Services’
parade. Commander G.- R. Griffiths,
D.S.C., R.A.N., was in command. He
is on the staff of Rear-Admiral H. M.
Burrell, 0.8. E., Flag Officer commanding
the Australian Fleet. The marching
column was headed by the band of
H.M.A.S. Melbourne (the flagship of
Rear-Admiral Burrell).
Officers and ratings in the R.A.N.
contingent were from H.M.A.S. Mel-
bourne, Voyager and Warramunga, all at
present serving with the British
Commonwealth Strategic Reserve in Far
Eastern waters.
• •
In Australia to gather material for
another book (his 17th), Louis Mattie,
Swiss author with a neatly trimmed chin-
beard, who plans to cross Australia, east
to west and north to south, per camel.
He’s had experience of these strong-
minded beasts in North Africa and India,
and reckons they’re faster than cars on
certain types of country, and a good deal
safer.
• •
Grey-haired and straight-to-the-point,
Captain H. L. Reiter, U.S. Navy (here-
with), looked just the man to command
the long, grey, purposeful-looking war-
ship which visited Sydney for the
anniversary of the Coral Sea battle.
U.S.S. Toledo is a heavy cruiser, com-
missioned in 1946, and saw her first
action in 1950 when she conducted shore
bombardment of roads and railways in
the Yundock area near Pusan, in Korea.
From July, 1950, until May, 1954, she
completed four tours of duty (24 months
of service) with the U.N. forces in Korea.
Cdptain Reiter was in Korea, too, and
was commanding a destroyer there in the
CORAL SEA
Inchon landings. He wears the ribbon
of the Korean presidential citation for
his subsequent service there. Although
born in Manila, where his father was
serving in the U.S. Army, Reiter was
away from the Far East all the years of
World War 11, when he served in the
South Atlantic and in the Normandy
landings.
• •
Flags half-masted in the U.K. have
signalled the death, at 90, of Admiral
Sir . Sydney Robert Fremantle, grand-
nephew of Captain* Charles Howe
Fremantle, who came to Westralia in
H.M.S. Challenger in 1829. The
fourth admiral of his family,
Sydney Robert Fremantle was born
in 1867, entered the Royal Navy
in 1881, and was in command of
H.M.S. Russell when that vessel
was sunk during the Dardanelles
operations in 1915. Afterwards
Deputy Chief of the Naval Staff,
he went to sea again in 1919,
ill command of the First Battle
Squadron. After being Commander-in-
Ch.ef at Portsmouth, 1923-26, he retired
in 1928. A knighthood conferred in
1919 was followed by the award of the
G.C.B. in 1929.
• •
Frank Sheed called in at The Bulletin
the day before he was leaving Sydney
after spending some weeks here on holi-
day. He had been meeting old friends
from his days in the university and law-
school. On his w'ay back to London, he
said, he is calling in at Bombay and
then is booked to lecture at a Jesuit
college in Baghdad. His last stop after
that will be at Istanbul.
Sheed is renowned as a publisher, and
his wife (Maisie Ward) is equally well
known for her Life of Chesterton. What,
perhaps, is not generally known is that
Frank is the only layman ever to have
been elected by the College of Cardinals
to a Doctorate of Theology.
• 9
“K.R.”: Sam Loxton, one of the per-
sonalities of post-war Australian cricket,
has announced his retirement, at 37. Last
season he led Victoria, and hit-up two
Shield centuries. Batsman, bowler and
brilliant fieldsman, Loxton played in 12
Tests, and toured England (1948) and
South Africa (1949-50); like Keith
Miller and other Victorian cricketers, he
had also been a top-line Australian
Rules footballer. A fiery bowler who
could send down a bumper (against
N.S.W. at the S.C.G. on Australia Day
in 1956 he got into holts with the crowd,
among them wharfies then on strike,
when he struck batsman Jim Burke with
a bumper; Loxton imperturbably “con-
ducted” some of the hooting), he’s also
Liberal M.L.A. for Prahran in Vic. Par-
liament. Probably he’ll now concentrate
on sending down verbal bumpers at his
Labor opponents.
• •
Henry'Orlando Bennett (whose father
came out from Gloucester? England,
after service in the Royal Navy) was born
LIMBLESS SOLDIER
in Tamworth (N.S.W.), but came to
Parramatta as a boy, and at 17 joined
the 17th Battalion in the Ist A.1.F.,
serving with Bill Sheahan, present
N.S.W. Minister for Health. Harry lost
his left arm at Bapaume in 1917.
After discharge from the A.1.F., he
worked for eight years in the Federal
Taxation Department; on the amalga-
mation of Federal and State Depart-
ments he went into Commerce. He
rejoined the State Public Service in 1930,
and from 1939-45 was State Controller
of Agricultural Machinery and Fertilisers
for N.S.W. in the Department of Agri-
culture and the Western Lands Com-
mission.
In 1951 he took-over as secretary of
the Limbless Soldiers’ Association of
N.S.W., a fulb-time job. Harry has been
to Canberra as one of the N.S.W. dele-
gates to the conference of all the Limb-
less Soldiers’ Associations of Australia.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 70, Archibald T. Harvey, who
was born at Maryborough (Q.) and who spent
most of his working-life with the A.U.S.N.
Co., latterly in Sydney. As a lieutenant in
the 14th Battalion, A.1.F., Arch Harvey got
an m.i.d. as well as a mention in Bean’s
Official History, which -records that he was
wounded cutting the enemy’s wife during a
particularly sticky operation that began the
Somme offensive of July, 1916, at the same
time calling to his men, “Come on, Australia!”
His wounds were severe and a recurring
problem, brut he was nevertheless one of the
few who have driven through the first green
from the tee at Roseville Golf Club. He
lost a son in World War 11.
In Adelaide, at 54, Ralph Edwin Bannister,
State president of the A.L.P.
In Sydney, at 85, John Quinlan, connected
in administrative and managerial capacities
with N.S.W. Rugby League for 50 years.
At Nelson (N.Z.), at 92, J. S. Tennant, first
Professor of Education at Victoria University
College, Wellington. Before his appointment
to Victoria College, in 1920, the professor was
inspector of schools at Wellington and principal
of Wellington training-college. He retired in
1929.


ABORIGINALITIES
EUCALITTINO
T>Y planting eucalyptus forests, that
prudent Ethiopian monarch Mene-
lik ( circa 1854) assured a permanent
wood-supply for his capital, Addis
Ababa, in a hitherto treeless area.
Appius Claudius and his successors
wallowed around in the malarial Pontine
Marshes for 15 centuries until, in the
reign of Victor Emmanuel 11, it was found
that the remedy for this stagnant tract
was the extensive planting of bluegums.
But it took Gallic flair to use euca-
lyptus-leaves in dispensing a liqueur for
connoisseurs. - Trappist Brother Orsisios
came from Marseilles in 1863 to the
Abbey of Tre Fontane, Rome, and as a
botanist he knew about the eucalypt-
seeds sent by M. Ramel from Melbourne
in 1854, sown in the local botanic-
“ They'll never believe We had engine-trouble !”
gardens, and seedlings sent to plant the
Pontine Marshes. (
With the good precedent of many
a deft monkly hand being concerned in
the concoction of subtle spirituous tipples,
he cast a speculative eye on the Roman
gum-trees. Within 12 months he had
composed a new beverage, and Italians
have relished Eucalittino ever since.
Fr. Alexander, now the ambrosial
alchemist at the abbey, explains that
the leaves of Eucalyptus globulus y
E. robusta and E. botryoides are blended.
The bottle-label, not too meretriciously
embellished, is a gem of clerkly illumina-
tion, the capital “L” of Liquore embody-
ing, in the best tradition, a miniature
crest which a magnifying-glass reveals as
featuring a gum-tree rooted in the motto
in ipsis laboro certano.
When the next V.I.P.s visiting these
Antipodes span our gastronomical gamut
from ’roo-tail soup to bombe passion-
fruit it would be harmonious to strike
the final gourmet note with this delight-
ful liqueur derived from gumleaves. Any-
one savoring it may well suspect how
Norman Lindsay koalas, by their prime
eucalyptic diet, acquire such an air of
bibulous well-being.
Sevenelms.
• * * *
“Margaret”: Seen kangaroos swim
(B. 16/4/’58)? Indeed, yes —between
Ivanhoe and Wilcannia (N.S.W.), 20-odd
years ago. Neither watercourses nor,
underground-water are found in those
parts, and graziers dig their earth-tanks
both wide and deep. ’Roos, hunted by
boys with dogs, would make for these
tanks and bail-up, chest-deep in water,
after their custom. Boys, not wanting
their dogs held under till they drowned,
would hurriedly call them off, and their
quarry would presently swim across the
tank and escape on the far side, the boys
considering it unsporting to runaround
and cut them off. Longest measured
swim, by an old man ’roo, was just
under 100yds. As only the head and neck
of a swimming animal were visible, I
can't describe the action ; but the atti-
tude appeared to be much as when sitting-
up, and the slow, jerky motion suggested
movements like .normal hops.
* * * *
“Wommadoo”: Many a discoverer
of mineral deposits has failed to profit
by his find, and one of these unfortunates
was Joseph Wills, who made the first
recorded discovery of tin in Australia.
While working as a shepherd at Elsmore,
near Tingha (N.S.W.), he picked-up
same samples which he handed round,
not knowing what they were, in an
Inverell hotel. Some more-knowledge-
able drinkers investigated the find, and
a “rush” soon started, which led to
the discovery of much tin and many
other minerals which are still produced
in small quantities. It also led to the
opening-up of much rich grazing- and
farming-land. Tingha miners have re-
stored the old shepherd’s tombstone, the
inscription on which states that he died in
September, 1873, aged 65, and summar-
ises his story:
Here lieth poor Wills
Who found out tin,
But very little did he win.
He paved the way for others’ gains,
And died neglected for his pains,
*t* * *
“Keyovadee”: The new city-bred shire
clerk in the smai Queensland sheep-
town was seeing first-hand the incredible
wealth of the pastoral lands, and after
12 months’ service a great desire to
possess more of it overcame him. He
applied for a substantial above-award
salary-increase, and was flatly refused.
He then addressed the hard-headed bunch
of councillors at length, concluding: “I
thought I was coming amongst big men,
but I find they are little men!”
* * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Reports that Ambon
and Menado airfields were bombed
during the comic-opera “war” in Indo-
nesia recalled my visit to both those
places about three years ago. At Menado
the fact that the Garuda pilot was an
Australian only slightly reassured me
when we seemed to sweep the tops off a
few dozen coconut-palms on the way
down to the strip. We flew to Ambon
from Macassar, passing in the flight
over some towering, jungle-covered
mountains which I was assured harbored
about a quarter-of-a-million rebels, and
on landing at the ragged airfield on
Ambon island, cut-off by miles of tidal
inlet from the city, we found the launch
had not arrived because the whole town
was attending the funeral of the mayor’s
wife. We found a bit of distraction
examining the wrecks of war-time Jap.
planes scattered around the perimeter.
They are probably still there, perhaps
with some recent additions from other
sources.
* * * «
“Xavier”: Where was the first wheat
grown in Victoria? Phillip Islanders
claim it was on Churchill Island, a 130-
acre spit of land a stone’s-throw from the
popular holiday-centre and approachable
by foot at low tide. The year is said to
be 1801, soon after the discovery of Bass
Strait. Churchill Island is being linked
to Phillip Island by a pier, now in con-
struction. The island is privately-owned
by a Melbourne dentist, who raises
quality cattle there.
* * # *
“Backsac”: Occasionally Nature loses
her sense of locality and establishes a
miniature but complete realm in a posi-
tion hundreds of miles off-course. Minna-
murra Valley, near Kiama (N.S.W.), pro-
vides a perfect example. This narrow gorge,
terminating in a perpendicular rock-face
over which the falls drop sheer to form
the beginnings of the Minnamurra River,
rightfully belongs in the sub-tropical
coastal areas of N.S.W. and Queens-
land. Intrigued botanists claim that the




trees growing in such magnificent propor-
tion and profusion are timbers of the
northern rain-forests. To a layman like
myself another point is particularly
noticeable —and inexplicable: there isn’t
a eucalypt growing in the* valley. Yet
the rough, barren-looking ridges a bare
200yds. away, though 1500 ft. and more
higher, are covered with bluegums. It
is understandable that exotic trees would
thrive in the rich, volcanic soil of the
gorge, but gums will also grow in such
soil. Why, then, since for centuries the
seeds must have been washing and blow-
ing down the mountainsides to the valley-
floor, are there no bluegums mingled
with the rare specimens?
* * * *
“Sanasi”: So Mr. (sic) Rovi Karl has
won £5OOO in the Queensland Golden
Casket. The late Sir Hubert Murray
must be revolving in his grave! In his
time, the time of wise administraton,
even the buying of 10s. Port Moresby
Library Institute Melbourne Cup Sweep
tickets was frowned upon. “If a native
did happen to win a prize it would have
a bad effect on the mob as a whole,” said
Native Affairs. The native regulation of
my days in Papua read as follows: “Any
native who plays cards for money or
money’s worth, or gambles in any other
way, shall be guilty, etc. Penalty £3 or
six months.” The selling of Casket tickets
to natives should carry a £5O penalty,
just as does the supplying of booze. The
Paps have enough born-in wickedness
without our adding to it. What do the
Christian missions think?
* * * *
“Stromlo”: Graziers are being urged to
conduct a campaign for “devaluing” the
rabbit as one means of stamping-out a
pest which is a source of livelihood in
some areas. In a report to the Graziers’
Association, V. W. Officer has proposed
that the export of rabbit-skins and
carcasses should be made illegal, persons
engaged in the “rabbit trade” should be
given two years in which to obtain other
work, and State Governments should
prohibit commercial trading in rabbits.
He says that New Zealand has practically
stamped-out the rabbit by such action.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Heth’s cheerful page (B.
5/3/’5B) repeats the incorrect assumption
that we have woodpeckers in Australia.
We haven’t. We have treecreepers, which
run up trees, probing under the bark on
the way ; and we have treerunners, or
sitellas, which run down trees on similar
business —these have up-tilted beaks to
save them the indignity of pole-vaulting
to the ground whilst coursing the
succulent spider. But the chappie who
takes a firm foothold on tree or palm and
behaves like a riveting-hammer—-except
that instead of plugging holes he makes
them—no ; his is one of the few large
avian families not represented in the
wondrously diverse bird-population of
this continent. The other species pictured
by Heth, the Yakata Yakata Bird, is
common to all countries.
"Not so fast—there's a ferry on your right—-mind that buoy on
your left "
THE NORTH BOUND RIDER
Tombstone country —
so the pioneer described it.
“Patches of tombstone country,”
he wrote, “exist in this area ; indeed,
at one place the north-bound rider
observes for more than ten miles
this horrible terrain .”
The north-bound rider . . , Surely,
1 thought, it must exist
for him who travels
west or east or south, besides
occurring for the eye
of him who merely northward rides.
However, at each station round about
it was always the same
Blue would scratch his head.
“Tombstone country ;
did you say tombstone country ?
Never heard of it.”
And Mulga would ask :
“Who told you about it?”
And, at my answer,
they would give me sidelong looks.
“Books !” they would snort.
“Huh —books !”
Tombstone country . . ,
Ask and ask, as l did,
I never found it.
Only, a dozen times over,
the same reply to my question :
“Tombstone country, did you say ?
Never heard of it.”
. . . Yet as years pass I grow more
certain
1 must return to those ranges once again
and somehow reach the dreaded tomb-
stone country
that only in my dreams I now attain
(the north-bound rider nudging at my
elbow )
—ten barren miles of horrible terrain.
S.A.
IAN MUDIE.


“ Whatcher mean , ‘’ E's a nice pig's-trotter?”
FOR years The Tug had toiled intermit-
tently on the Fremantle waterfront,
dispersing his substance freely on the
trots and beer, so when he announced
that he intended to “have a run back to
the Port to see me old mother,” the
foreman waxed cynical about how he was
going to raise the dough for his fare.
“Dough! Blime! What’re all these ships
running for? Be your age, boy.” The
Tug duly disappeared, to turn-up looking
good in the coat more than a month later.
“Well, you managed it,” congratulated
the foreman. “How did you do it?”
The Tug grinned. “Dead easy! All I took
was a quid-note and a clean pair of socks
—and I didn’t change either of ’em! ”
Victoria Quay.
* * * *
“Bass”: The boundary-fence of my
near-Perth property passes through a
swamp, and as the water dries-up each
year I have to renew the wires—the best
galvanising isn't good for more than one
season’s immersion. The water is
brackish. A mile away in the side of a
hill there's a spring of the clearest and
sweetest water I’ve ever tasted, but it
has the same violently corrosive action
on iron and steel. I’d like to know why.
There are hundreds of these swamps
around Perth —they’ve increased in size
and number with clearing—and around
many of them the sand is almost pure
silica. A sample taken near my swamp
assayed 99.8 per cent, silica, .14 per cent,
alumina, a trace —less than four parts
in one thousand—of ferric-oxide, about
seven parts in 100,000 of titania, and
a suspicion of potash. There’s absolutely
no lime or magnesia. Seven-feet below
the surface there’s a belt of coffee-rock,
which holds the water in the swamp and
prevents any underground source con-
tributing to it; so the swamp-water is
simply rain which has leaked through
that belt of almost pure silica. The same
rainwater collected from a roof doesn’t
eat through a galvanised-iron tank inside
five or six years, so the corrosive agent
must be something taken from the sand.
Any clues?
* * * *
“Sackville”: It may not be so easy to
restore that Maori house in England (B.
25/12/’57). The N.Z. Government found
that out when it conceived the idea of
raising historical Maori dwellings so that
tourists could enter without crawling on
hands and knees. Lifting the buildings
was comparatively simple, but the Maori
carvings needed to be extended down
the new sections of walling. The Maoris
took the view that sacrilege had been
committed and adamantly refused to
carry-out the required carving. A dead-
lock had been reached when a wood-
carver of Austrian descent undertook to
make a study of the carvings and repro-
duce them. He succeeded so well that
he was given the job of carving a
magnificent eagle to decorate the
Speaker’s chair in Parliament House. In
1943 1 met the carver, in Australia. He
had fallen on evil days, but still carried
the photographs and press-cuttings cover-
ing the Maori buildings and the Parlia-
ment House carving. His identity-card
confirmed his claims, and if further
evidence were necessary there was the
full-sized (3ft. 3in. from tip to tip), blue-
print of the carved eagle, and a set of 32
wood-chisels that started my eyes
glistening.
* * * *
THE argument anent the sweetest
songster in the VVestralian bush
settled down to two contestants the
brown-honeyeater and the reed-warbler ;
and neither of their protagonists would
give an inch.
Both lived near swampy areas and both
had taken time oft' to investigate and
identify their songsters —no mean feat,
because both birds are shy and blend
perfectly with their surroundings, and
neither will keep still for a second—so a
committee was appointed to adjudicate.
We heard Bill’s honeyeaters and found
a nest, a neat, cup-shaped structure
attached to three upright twigs of a small
tea-tree. It was lined with wool teased
from a zamia-palm, but when Ted saw
it he bucked —said it was a reed : warbler’s
nest, and took us to his swamp to prove
it. He showed us two nests, one in reeds
and one in a tea-tree, both practically
identical with each other and with the
one at Bill’s place, and Ted claimed they
were both owned by reed-warblers —he’d
seen one pair of birds and heard the
other.
We built “hides,” and finally established
that the nest in the reeds was a warbler’s,
the other a honeyeater’s ; but we couldn’t
distinguish between the songs. The calls
were practically identical, and we couldn’t
even agree that the warbler’s was a shade
more vigorous (as I think it is); and now
that we’ve awarded equal marks, we have
a question for the “Abo.” Council.
Why should two such distinct birds
have the same habitat, build the same sort
of nest, attach it to the supports in the
same way—by binding loops around them
—and acquire songs which can’t be dis-
tinguished (at least by the average
human)? They're even both insect-eaters,
the only difference being that the honey-
eater varies its diet with nectar, while the
warbler finds his titbits amongst the small
water-crustaceae.
KELMS.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
Sharemarket Shake
A LTHOUGH the Australian
sharemarkets, suddenly
taking notice, it would seem,
of an accumulating force of
adverse economic factors, have
just been going through the
sharpest shakeout for some
time, prices for most front-line
stocks stood up to the shaking
without much loss of face, and,
generally, they still offer very
low yields from the point of
view of the average investor.
Some of the* leaders, like
1.C.1., scarcely showed a
quiver, and continued to offer
the investor the low imme-
diate yield of 3.1 p.c. B.H.P.
came back a little,’but still gave
a return of only 3.9 p.c. at
425. 9d. The two leading
chain-stores scarcely flinched
•—any weakness was temporary
—and one had to look for
special reasons to discover why
a market favorite had taken
a dive that was at all steep.
One of the most popular
stocks of the past 12 months
has been Henry Jones, around
which many bonus-issue day-
dreams have been built in
recent years, notwithstanding
cautions to the contrary by the
co.'s chairman. About 10
months ago (July, 1957) a new
issue for cash was announced,
with an express mention of “no
bonus-issue.” Last week the
terms of the issue for cash were
confirmed —ratio, one for six
at par, books to close on
May 20.
The market reaction, com-
bined with the general shake-
out, was to drop the price of
Henry Jones ords. to 555. 6d.,
compared with a “highest” of
625, 3d. this year. Apparently
after: 10 months supporters of
the stock have come to the
conclusion that the chairman
meant just what he said.
The strength of the other
sharemarket leaders seems to
rest in the support of the fixed
trusts and other institutional
investors. Certain it is that
for the past couple of years
there have been very few
opportunities for the small
investor .to buy into the chosen
few of the best stocks at a
price that indicated a reasonable
return in income even after a
period as long as, say, five
years.
A 10-year wait may be no
problem to a staff provident-
fund or a life-assurance office,
but not every investor is pre-
pared, at the outset, anyway,
to countenance a wait of 10
years for an adequate return
Yet to rely now on someone else
being prepared to accept an
even lower return (that is, to
pay a higher price) in order to
provide a market profit on an
investment in a few months or
a few years is to expect to find
“I think he's merely implying that jobs are harder to
get now."
a speculator who is a bigger
sucker than the first one.
This is the trap that buy-
ing for “market-increment”
regardless of eventual dividend-
yields—either through new
issues or outright div.-increases
—leads one into.
It is of interest to note that
between December, 1946, and
June, 1957, the investor who
bought Woolworths’ shares
and took-up all issue, includ-
ing bonus-issues in that 11-year
period, would have been get-
ting a yield of 7.3 p.c. on his
investment (12 p.c. div. basis)
at the end. True, he would
have almost doubled his money
in that period on market-
appreciation, but only at the
expense of the investor who
was prepared to accept a yield
of around 3.7 p.c. at that time.
Now the investor is accepting
3 p.c. from Woolworths, and
market-increment has advanced
accordingly.
How much lower are inves-
tors prepared to go in this
matter of low yields? It is an
important question in the case
of investment in companies
which already have large capi-
tals and where new issues of
shares will have to be big
indeed in order to represent a
favorable ratio to shareholders.
Woolworths probably offers
prospects of fairly quick
returns from capital-outlay on
new store-premises, with cor-
responding chances of actual
div.-increases. But in the case,
say, of 8.H.P., it takes a long
time for new capital even to
start earning its keep. And in
B.H.P. the profit-ploughback
factor is always against any-
thing striking in the way of
early div.-increases.
These conclusions will drive
the investor who wants to see
a more reasonable return on
his money within a compara-
tively short time into a search
among the second-line stocks,
and these are the very type
which have been affected most
in recent sharemarket shakes.
Kandos Cement was one to
dip fairly steeply after recent
rises, and at 475. 6d. offered a
yield of 4.2 p.c., with prospects
of something better within a
matter of a. couple of years.
Kandos shares are much
cheaper buying than those
in Australian Cement, the
other leg into the Australian
Portland Cement operating-
co. The new plant at
Geelong should soon be
operating, with almost imme-
diate effect on earnings.
Masonite Corporation shares
have dropped to 19s. 6d.,
against a “highest” of 255.
Bradford Cotton shares have
also come down, touching 355.
and yielding over 7 p.c. This
is a solid stock of its type.
The Australian Gypsum
group of cos. is always worth
watching in times of market
setbacks —Australian Gypsum
in Sydney and Victor Electric
Plaster and Peninsula Plaster
in Melbourne. All are of equal
merit and should be at the
same price-level.
Gadsden Hughes, in the con-
tainer business in N.S.W., has
many attractions.
In the electrical and elec-
tronic field Ducon, Email and
Electronic Industries are
especially interesting at the
moment.
Samphire Marsh, No. 1
[from L.. Owen]
HTHE striking of basement
rock (in this case, hard
granite) at the bottom of
Samphire Marsh No. 1 well at
a short distance above the un-
expectedly shallow depth of
6669 ft. has come as a shock
to all those who anticipated
that the bore would produce—
at the very least—a spate of
invaluable geological informa-
tion with reference to the
Canning Basin.
If the drilling of Samphire
No. 1 well has allowed of the
recovery of a number of
properly - orientated, large-
diameter cores, the cost in time
and money of this bore will
not have been wasted.
It is probably too late for
such research to influence the
siting of the Meda well, whose
location in very difficult
country proves, once again, the
determination and courage of
Wapet’s search for oil. The
application of micro-geological
technique in the Meda well
may, however, produce in-
formation of enormous value,
if properly interpreted.
One aspect of the search
should be stressed. The failure
to strike oil in the Canning
Basin will have little real
{Continued, on next page )


"From
Cope York
to
Portland"-
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Norman .T. Carson,
C.M.G.: C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton. General Manager:
John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams. Resident Officer
tor Northern Victoria and the RDerina: S. L. G. MacDonald,
Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmontfi.
2 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
' N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson. C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell. K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman*;
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
j f. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: A. B. Tilemann. Assistant Manager: A. G. W.
Dent. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District Repre-
sentative tor Newcastle: H B. Morison.
. 398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8.'E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: 11. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
CharlevlUe.
UT23
significance with reference to
the prospects of the existence
of commercial petroleum in the
pre-Cretaceous strata of the
Carnarvon Basin.
Metals the Bell-wether
TN its issue of May 22, 1957,
The Bulletin com-
mented :
Metal prices have for the present
turned against the mining industry,
and one wonders whether some
other commodities now in high
world-market favor will follow
them down in accord with tradition.
Within a few weeks wool
prices took a downturn, and
since then there has been a
heavy fall in quotations for
most raw materials. Prices for
wool and metals generally
have recently been particularly
depressed. Overseas demand
for many things even
petroleum and newsprint—has
been weaker than for a long
time past.
Among the commodities for
which prices have held reason-
ably well have been sugar and
beef.
During the nine months to
March 31, according to the
Commonwealth Treasury's
Information Bulletin, Aus-
tralian export prices were 4 p.c.
loWer than in the corresponding
previous period, and, to make
matters worse, import prices
were up 3 p.c.
During the present (final)
quarter of the fiscal year,
export prices are generally
down still further.
AUSTRALIAN-MADE CARPETS
Australians buy more
carpet and soft floor-
coverings per head than any
other people in the world, and
are among the largest importers
of carpets. With the exception
of wool used to make felted
floor-coverings, all the raw
materials used in Australian-
made carpets are imported.
Australian wool is not coarse
enough to make carpets, and
supplies are drawn from New
Zealand, India and the U.K.
The value of raw materials
used in the industry over the
past two years has averaged
about £4 million annually.
In a recent year a little more
than half of Australia’s con-
sumption of 10-million square-
yards of carpets and soft floor-
coverings was imported. But
domestic manufacture is
increasing in a variety of
different types of carpet.
Australian Manufacture
Surveying the Australian
carpet industry, the Common-
wealth Department of Trade,
in a recent review, points-out
that Australia today has a well-
established floor - coverings
industry, capable of producing
a large proportion of its
requirements. Production began
in 1926, with the manufacture
of felted-wool floor-coverings,
and Was followed by the pro-
duction of woven carpet in
1937, rubber-bonded carpet in
1948, needled-felt in 1954, and
tufted carpet in 1956.
Most of the plant used in
the industry is fairly new, and
machines and equipment of
the latest types and designs are
in use.
Brief descriptions of the
types of soft floor-coverings
made in Australia are:
(/) Woven Carpets.
(a) Axminster is a cut-pile fabric
made in a wide variety of coiors"
and patterns. The design is
developed by a series of tufts, each
line of which is individually bound
into the fabric. These are made
in Australia in widths from 27in.
to 12ft.
(. b ) Wilton is a cut-pile fabric
woven in either a jacquard pattern
or in plain or stippled effect.
(c) Brussels carpet, often re-
ferred to as “cord” in Australia,
is an uncut-pile fabric (an uncut
Wilton), genejally woven in plain
or stippled effect, or less frequently
with a jacquard pattern. Wilton
and Brussels are woven in Aus-
tralia in widths up to 40in.
(2) Rubber-bonded Carpet.
Rubber-bonded carpet is a non-
woven material consisting of a pile
(mainly goat-hair) vulcanised to a
woven hessian backing. In Aus-
tralia it is usually sold in 40in.
widths in plain colors.
(2) Tufted Carpet.
Tufted carpet is made by sew-
ing cotton or rayon pile to a
woven backing. Rubber-solution is
then used to bond the pile to the
backing. The pile may be cut or
uncut. It is generally produced
in plain colors, piece-dyed. Some
patterning is possible with dyed
yarns, but the range is limited
compared with woven carpets.
Tufted carpet is produced in Aus-
tralia in widths up to 12ft.
(4) Needled-felt Carpet.
Needled-felt carpet is made by
needling garnetted compressed fibre
(staple-fibre, jute, etc.) onto a hes-
sian base, the back of which is
then treated with a rubber-solution.
Widths up to 9ft. are produced in
Australia.
(5) Wool Floorfelt.
Wool floorfelt, as its name indi-
cates, is made by a process which
causes the wool fibres to felt
together. in Australia the usual
width in which floorfelt is sold is
6ft.
Of a total of 13 firms making
soft floor-coverings in Aus-
tralia, seven are in N.S.W. and
six in Victoria. Of the 13
firms, one makes Axmioster,
Wilton and Brussels carpet;
one makes Axminister, Wilton,
Brussels and needled-felt; two
make Axminster only; one
makes rubber-bonded carpet;
four make tufted carpet and
rugs; two make needled-felt;
and four make wool floorfelt.
.
Plant Capacity
At the end of 1957 the Aus-
Iralian carpet industry had a
capacity (on a normal shift
basis) of eight-million square-
yards a year, which is more


tty Appointment
t lo HM. Kinj
J roderik (X
By Appointment
to the late
Kind George VI
By Appointment
to H. M. King
Gustav VI Adoif
iSHISf
By Appointment
to H. M, the
Oueen of fh*
Netherlanp^
CUM *
S3>
* i
~L s &4
CHERRY
Mm
roKM**"
38rfwfc|»
Cherry
Heerin
f/t me* 1818 Denmark*
liqueur delight.
for your alter
dinner enjoyment
00f*
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—SWIFT & MOORE PTY. LTD.
Divorce Notice
IS THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorck.
TO LOUIS SECKO late of 42 Roseberry
street. Hawthorne, Victoria. —T AK E
NOTICE that IDA GRACE SECKO has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 87 oi
1958 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 14th July 1958 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from .T. BIRNIE JACKSON &
COATES, Solicitors, of 117 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO' WILLIAM JOHN LAWSON
FORSCUTT formerly of Katherine in
the Northern Territory but now of parts
unknown.- —TAKE NOTICE that your
wife KATHRYN ELSA MARIE
FORSCUTT has commenced proceed-
ings against you for a Divorce on the
ground of desertion during three years
and upwards UNLESS you enter an
appearance in the office of the Pro-
thonotary of the Supreme Court Mel-
bourne on or before the Ist day of July
1958 the case may proceed in your
absence and vou may be ordered to pay
costs AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
that if you intend to defend the said
proceedings you must file an answer
in the said office on or before the Uth
dav of Julv, 1958.
THIS ADVERTISEMENT is inserted
by the PUBLIC SOLICITOR, 601 Little
Collins St., Melbourne.
than double the capacity of the
early post-war years.
The Department of Trade,
in its review, says:
A wide range of soft floor-
coverings is now made in Aus-
tralia. Most of the obvious
opportunities for new investment
in the industry have been taken
up over the past few years, but
doubtless other opportunities will
flow from changes in fashion or in
manufacturing methods in the years
to come.
Current activity in the industry
varies between firms; while some
are fully active, others are work-
ing part-time only. This is attri-
buted to three main causes.
Firstly, together with a weaken-
ing of the previous public insistence
on wall-to-wall carpets in new
homes, there appears to have been
a shift in consumer-preference
away from the traditional types of
floor-coverings in favor of the
newer types, such as rubber-
bonded, needled and tufted carpets.
These may be, of course, only
passing trends.
Secondly, recent years have seen
a marked rise in imports of cotton
broadloom-carpet and cotton-
squares, mainly from Belgium, no
doubt because of their price-
advantage.
Thirdly, the decline in house-
building during 1956-57 and the
general tightening of consumer-
finances have accentuated competi-
tion. However, commencements of
new dwellings are now on the
increase.
Despite such problems, which
have affected some firms more than
others, the soft floor-coverings
industry as a whole is solidly
established with some 1500
employees and a capitalisation of
several-million pounds. The indus-
try has gained a reputation for
quality in the ]ocal market , and
this should be of great assistance
in the export trade, provided it is
by imaginative design-policy
an b y aggressive selling-methods.
jhe Companies Engaged
„
Australia S carpet industry
today is comprised of the
following manufacturers:
,
Axminster, Wilton and • Brussels
carpets .
British ‘ Australian Carpet
Manufacturing Co. Pty., Ltd.,
o p era t es two factories in Victoria,
al Tottenham and Footscray. At
the same factories B.A.C.M.’s
wholly-owned subsidiary, Preston
Wools (Australia) Pty., Ltd., mr&es
a n requirements of pile-yarn of
all-wool and wool in mixture,with
other fibres. The share-capital of
b.A.C.M. Co. Pty., Ltd., is held
by Felt and Textiles of Australia,
Ltd. (two-thirds), and The Carpet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd., Kidder-
minster, U.K. (one-third).
Axmimter< Wilton and Brussels
carpets and needled-felt:
\ '
United Carpet Mills Pty.,
Ltd., operates two factories in
Preston (Vic.),
Axminster carpets only: —
Carpet Manufacturers, Ltd.,
operates a factory at Five Dock,
Sydney. A subsidiary, Sydney
Woollen Mills, Ltd., at Parramatta,
N.S.W., .'owned jointly with John
Vicars and Co., Ltd., of Marrick-
ville, spins the woollen yam required
by the company. [Carpet Manu-
facturers, Ltd., through Loktuft
Carpets, Ltd., will also be making
American tufted carpet, using
viscous and nylon yarns.]
The Victoria Carpet Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Dandenong, Victoria. This
company is a wholly-owned sub-
sidiary of the Victoria Carpet Co.,
Ltd., Kidderminster, England.
Rubber-bonded Carpet: —
Westminster Carpets Pty.,
Ltd., Dandenong, Victoria. This
company is a wholly-owned sub-
sidiary of Minster, Ltd., which
also owns Whitehead Chemical
Co. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., the manu-
facturer of rubber dispersion used
in the production of rubber-bonded
carpet.
Tufted carpet and tufted floor-
rugs:—
Chattanooga Tufted Carpets
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd., operates one
factory, at Alexandria, N.S.W.-
Ownership is equal between Felt
and Textiles of Australia, Ltd., and
Bradford Cotton Mills, Ltd.
(The latter is of Australian develop-
ment and ownership, engaged in
spinning and weaving for piece-
goods of cotton and man-made
fibres, and dyeing, finishing and
preshrinking services.)
Homfray and Co. Pty., Ltd., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Hom-
fray and Co., Ltd., of Yorkshire,
England, operates a factory at Jack
Road, Cheltenham (Vic.). The
company manufactures both rugs
and carpet.
Jeldi Manufacturing Pty., Ltd.,
. Sydney, N.S.W. This is an Aus-
tralian-owned company. The
manufacture of tufted rugs and
carpets is only a part of the com-
pany’s activities, the major
activities being the manufacture of
bedspreads, dressing-gowns, beach-
wear, curtains and quilted bed-
spreads.
Supertex Industries, Ltd.,
Auburn, N.S.W. This company
manufactures rugs at its Goulburn
(N.S.W.) factory. The main activity
of the. company is the manufacture
of towelling and chenille bed-
spreads, dressing-gowns, etc.
Needled-fdt:
Australian Hairfelt & Wadding
.Co., a manufacturing unit of Felt
and Textiles of Australia, Ltd.,
operates two factories in N.S.W.,
one at Alexandria, for the making
of Valdura needled-floorfelt in
piecegoods, Bisonia needled-floorfelt
in squares, needled-underfelt, other
needled-feits and wadding; and
one ai Waterloo, for cutting of wool
and needled-feits into lengths or felt
components, and for laminating of
felt sheets.
Tufton Carpet Co. Pty., Ltd.,
a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Tufton Corporation, Ltd., operates
a factory at Auburn (Vic.) to
manufacture needled-felt carpet.
Felted Wool:
Felt and Textiles of Australia,
Ltd., is itself the maker of Feltex
and Felora wool floorfelt piecegoods
at Granville, N.S.W., where indus-
trial wool-felts are also made.
Through a N.S.W. manufacturing-
unit, Australian Hairfelt and
Wadding Co., it makes Valdura
needled-floorfelt piecegoods, Bisonia
needled floorfelt-squares, needled-
underfelt, and other needled-feits
(such as insulating-felts). Through
four other manufacturing-units, one
each in Victoria, S.A., W.A. and
Tasmania, it makes needled-under-
felt and insulating-felts: Its sub-
sidiary, British Australian Carpet
Manufacturing Co. Pty., Ltd., makes
pile-yarns and woven carpet in
Victoria. An associate corporation,
Chattanooga Tufted Cafpets (Aust.)
Pty., Ltd., makes tufted carpet in
N.S.W.
A. Forsyth and Co. Pty., Ltd.,
is an Australian-owned company
and operates a factory at Waterloo,
N.S.W. It manufactures underfelt
as well as wool floorfelt and is
also a manufacturer of rope and
cordage.
Australian production of
carpets, overall, is below one-
shil't capacity of the plant,
though in some particular
cases demand has caused plant
to be worked fully. Actual
output in Australia over the
past three completed years has
been:
Production of Soft Floor-
Coverings.
(Millions of square-yards.)
1954-55 1955-56 1956-57
Pile .. 2.50 2.50 2.95
Non-pile* 1.63 1.99 1.57
Total .. 4.13 4.49 4.52
* Needled-felt and wool floorfelt.
By the end of 1957 increases
in woven-broadloom, tufted-
carpet and needled-felt plant-
capacity brought overall
capacity, on a single-shift basis,
to 5.3 million square-yards for
pile floor-coverings and 2.7
million square-yards for non-
pile floor-coverings, giving a
total of 8 million sq.-yds. by
the end of 1957.
Australian factories supply
the bulk of the market for the
cheaper and newer types of soft
floor-coverings. But a con-
siderable proportion of Aus-
tralian requirements of woven
carpets is still imported.
Although the departmental
survey does not say so, the
biggest-selling pile-carpet in
Australia today is probably
the rubber-bonded type, which
is used in the motor-car
industry as well as in home-
furnishing. It is made by one
company, Westminster Carpets,
Ltd., which aims to increase its
capacity by 50 p.c. before the
end of the present year.


7*
Get M ~!° on your savings in
AUSTRALIAN ALUMINIUM
COMPANY LIMITED
£3,000,000 REGISTERED MORTAGE DEBENTURES
EXAMPLES OF GROWING USE OF ALUMINIUM
UNILEVER HOUSE
SYDNEY
Aluminium curtain wall
p,. and glass In-filla
CALTEX HOUSE
SYDNEY
Aluminium curtain wall
and tile in-filli
M-ti
ffl
WmmmasKmum,
lllliiiiilii
KBBSW.
SSKSS
mm
aißi'iiWn
WllHli
m
m
■Hi
iiiiiiiiiii
M.L.C. BUILDING
SYDNEY
Aluminium curtain wall and
IK! WB i
now and for the future
World sales of Aluminium, the won-
der metal of the 20th century, have
doubled in the last 10 years. Aus-
tralian Aluminium Company’s sales
have trebled since 1947 and new
markets are opening up all the time.
Aluminium is used increasingly in
modem buildings, road, rail and
6ea transport, household utensils,
bridges, buses, shops, homes, agri-
culture a thousand and one fields
of ever-expanding activity where
strength without excessive weight is
vital. Aluminium now has a world
usage second only to steel its
fixture is assured.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
UNDERWRITERS) lAN POTTER & CO.
How your money will grow
in Australian Aluminium
Debentures
The Australian Aluminium Company Limited is owned
by the internationally famous Aluminium Limited of
Canada (which has assets of 1209 million dollars,
Canadian) and The British Aluminium Company
Limited (assets £42 million, Sterling).
Trustee for the Debenture Stock holders is
the National Mutual Life Nominees Pty. Ltd.
INTEREST PAID TWICE YEARLY
Interest at the rate of 7 % per annum will accrue from the date
of lodging applications and will be paid half-yearly, on
April 30 and October 31. Application payments, interest and
repayment of principal are free of exchange throughout
Australia.
Debentures may be sold at any time
The term of the Debentures is 7, 10 or 15 years as you prefer.
But if you wish, you may sell your Debentures for cash at any
time at ruling market price.
ISSUE NOW OPEN
(For public information: This is not a prospectus or an
advertisement for a prospectus and does not constitute an
Invitation to subscribe for the debenture stock mentioned
herein.)
For Full Prospectus
and application forms .
inquire at any branch of the Bank of New South Wales or
consult any Member of the Stock Exchanges of Australia,
or— *
SEND THIS COUPON NOW
AUSTRALIAN ALUMINIUM COMPANY LTD.,
Unwin Street, Granville, N.S.W.
Please send me, without obligation, full prospectus, application
forms for Registered Mortgage Debentures.
NAME -
(BLOCK LETTERS PLEASE)
ADDRESS


Personal
MOORE, Bertie Joseph, formerly of
Ryde, re 2nd Mortgage write with
evidence identity M. B. BYLES & CO.,
Solicitors, 2a Hillview Road, Eastwood.
Your advantage.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Waitmg for Godot”
This little trimmer turned-up
at the Independent, North
Sydney, last week and is so
outrageously offensive, so
intellectually fascinating and so
superbly acted and presented
that you really can’t say you
haven’t seen it. It is not with-
out its flat spots occasional
aridity of dialogue and
phi)osophy and moments of
overproduction in the staging
—but the author, Samuel
Beckett, with theatrical and
commercial shrewdness, knows
just when to galvanise a
nodding audience with some
startling obscenity, rather with
the effect of a belch at grace,
only more so.
Two filthy deadbeats are
waiting on a bleak roadside for
Godot to arrive. In some
vague way he will solve their
problems. They pass their time
in deliberate quarrels and
reconciliations; in fear and
bewilderment; in abuse and
depraved conversation and
behavior—in doing anything
that will occupy their idle,
futile waiting. Only three other
characters appear: the in-
credible, florid and booted
Pozzo, driving his starving,
terrified slave at the end of a
rope, and the Boy, a timid thin-
voiced messenger from Godot.
This disjointed symbolism—•
ugly, dramatic and even some-
times amusing in its hints of
Chaplinesque comedy
probably has some despairing
philosophical significance;
possibly the deadbeats are man-
kind in general frittering life
away ancf living on futile hope ;
possibly Godot is death, or the
Almighty, and the Boy an
angel of hope ; possibly Pozzo
is the Devil; possibly ... any-
thing. Possibly only Godot
knows, and he never turns-up.
At any rate, it all provokes
a gratifying simmer of specu-
lation and argument among the
audience, and Peter O’Shaugh-
nessy, who produces it and
plays one of the deadbeats, and
Barry Humphries, who plays
the other, pour a tremendous
amount of talent into their
roles. Their performances are
brilliant and, one feels at this
stage, unforgettable. And the
same may be said of Tony
Bazell, as Pozzo, and Sholto
James, as Lucky, his slave.
*X+ ❖
“Time Remembered”
Anouilh’s charming “Time
Remembered,” which was
enthusiastically commended by
The Bulletin’s Melbourne
showman, is now at Sydney’s
Elizabethan Theatre, and due
for further notice here next
week.
❖
The Alma Trio
Under the aegis of Musica
Viva, this American ensemble
(Maurice Wilk, violin ; Gabor
Rejto, cello; and Adolph
Bailer, piano) began its Aus-
tralian tour at Sydney Town
Hall on Saturday night with a
concert in which musical
values were sustained at high
level and occasionally reached
lofty peaks. Its members have
the gift of achieving balance
of tone and integration effort-
lessly, almost as if it were auto-
matic —which of course is born
of perfect understanding. They
are obviously dedicated to the
music they play ; and each —
as they proved in their sonata-
work —is a soloist of distinc-
tion.
The two big works of the
night were trios, one by
Beethoven, the other by
Schubert; and it is in such
strongly-knit classical material
that they patently revel.
The Beethoven, in E Flat
Major—the composer’s first
published work—unmistakably
derives from the Haydn-
Mozart influence; yet the
underlying strength, the
heavier voice, and in particular
the gusty humor of the third
and fourth movements give
revealing glimpses of the
Beethoven that w r as to come,
the gusts of Falstaffian belly-
laughter that were to surge
through the scherzos of his
symphonies.
The fiddle was allotted the
major comedy-role here, and
Mr. Wilk entered into the
spirit of the exuberant jollity.
Throughout these two move-
ments the three players gener-
ally achieved an infectious and
lilting gaiety, after the adagio
(given full measure of expres-
sive lyricism) had, as it were,
finally put the brief interlude
of seriousness to bed.
Schubert’s sunny B Flat
Major Trio, Op. 99, replete
with beautiful melodies and
distinguished harmonies, found
the players at their sparkling
best in the episodes where the
themes are tossed deftly from
one instrument to another in
quick succession. In these the
rhythms were tightly knit, and
in the scherzo the effect of
fleet - footed and nimbly-
accurate dancing was quite
magical.
Bailer, the pianist, was a
resourceful and discreet
collaborator in the two
sonatas. In the Brahms, Rejto
drew from his cello a rich
sonorousness in the lower
reaches of the instrument and
a lovely singing tone of satin
smoothness in the high regions.
Maurice Wilk, in the Pro-
kofieff D Major Sonata,
brought excellent all-round
tone to bear on the mixture of
saltant capriciousness and bit-
ing ironies which are never too
far below the surface lyricism.
❖ ❖ ❖
Choral Concert
Committing, as it were, the
sin of premature judgment,
this commentator, dodging a
Macquarie Street maelstrom of
Bridge traffic, got into the
Sydney Conservatorium only
a moment before starting-
time ; surely, he reckoned, with
the American Alma Trio hold-
ing-forth at the Town Hall,
one could expect merely a
handful in the audience at
the Con.
There were no fewer than
700.
Like a tilted bottle of ink
the Conservatorium choir
flowed right along the stage,
interrupted triangularly by the
timpani. Constricted, the
student orchestra and con-
ductor Dr. Noel Nickson
plunged lustily into Dvorak’s
“Carnival” Overture and
nearly brought it off a
battery of trumpets flaring
back at the strings, percussion
and drums going hell-for-
leather. But, fine though the
loud sections were, the first-
violins often strayed all over
the shop: closer integration
and more decisive leadership
were needed.
Elgar’s ode “The Music
Makers” followed; an over-
stated setting of Arthur
O’Shaughnessy’s nine stanzas.
Elgar, speaking of his “Dream
of Gerontius” said: “This is
the best of me.” Yet “The
Music Makers” has the same
general points: lush, almost
introspective harmony coupled
to good melodic structure.
A mezzo-soprano soloist (in
this case Beryl Cheers) appears
at verse five; despite Dr.
Nickson’s frequent damping
efforts Miss Cheers was too
often drenched with string
tone (watch those first-
violins!). But, from what one
could hear above or through
the strings, the soloist did a
very good job she was
certainly enthusiastically
applauded.
After interval, tenor Ronald
Austron sang two arias—
“ Through the Forest,” from
Weber’s “Der Freischutz,”
and “Ah, be gone,” from
Massenet’s “Manon.” Mr.
Austron gave both arias
intelligent readings, but he
could have risen a little more
over the orchestra —strings
notwithstanding.
Pianist Patricia Halpin sat
down at the grand, spent a
minute or so arranging her
dress, shot a broad smile at
Dr. Nickson and breezed into
Liszt’s Second Concerto for
Piano and Orchestra in A
Major. Alas! After her initial
series of quiet arpeggi Miss
Halpin’s first forte note was
blurred; and her double-
octave passages seemed to lack
the crystal pearliness of, say,
Solomon.
Liszt, be it admitted, does
some singular things: the
soloist is required to execute
four or five thumb-glissandos
through the entire length of the
keyboard; then there’s a
curious little pizzicato
orchestral bit, like a cactus in
the Sahara —if there are cactii
in the Sahara. Anyway, if it
must remain a virtuoso piece
and therefore almost
unapproachable, Miss Halpin
can rest assured hers was a
jolly good effort.
A. W.
‘‘You Can’t Take It With
You”
In producing “You Can’t
Take It With You,” for the
Brisbane Arts Theatre, Alan
Denby made no attempt to re-
furbish the 20 - year - old


Divorce Nfttice
TIIE NORTHERN TERRITORY OP
AUSTRALIA.
IN THE SUPREME COURT.
No. 136 of 1957.
BETWEEN: JOHN REGINALD
STEWART, Plaintiff, and BETTY
LILLIAN STEWART. Defendant.
TO: Fred Renals, Sydney, New South
Wales.
NOTICE is hereby given to Fred Renals
whose last known address was ;it,
Sydney, New South Wales, that John
Reginald Stewart of Darwin in the
Northern Territory of Australia, Petty
Officer, Royal Australian Navy, has
issued a writ in the Supreme Court of
the Northern Territory in an action in
which John Reginald Stewart claims an
order for divorce from his wife on
the ground of her adultery ~vqth Fred
Renals, but is not claiming costs or
damages against him. If Fred Renals
desires to be heard in opposition to the
claim for the order, he must file an
appearance in the offipe of the Master of
the Supreme Court of the Northern
Territory within 21 days of the last
insertion of this advertisement other-
wise he may be found guilty of adultery
in his absence, but no costs or damages
will be awarded against him if he does
not file an appearance. 1
JOHN MERITY, Roelyn Court, Darwin,
Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE.
No Pads —
No Springs
The NBO-BAR-
kkrb acts like
a hand when
flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, control
your hernia with comiort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by ail who
have tried it.
H'rtie today for Free Literature
Itarrere Distribution Company
Dept. 3m, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
LYSAGHT
10,000 GAL.
water tanks
READY TO
ASSEMBLE
ass
TALL
14' 4” diam.
10' 7" high
SQUAT
19' 1" diom.
6' 5 high
PRICES
BASIC UNIT comprising
wall sheets, jointing
material, bolts, nuts and
washers, outlet fitting
and special tools
OPTIONAL EXTRAS
STEEL BASE comprising
base sheets, solder,
sludge outlet fitting and
special tool? ±
OR— y
CONCRETE BASE by
cement-penetrant method.
All materials supplied
except cement, sand and
Iggregate
14'4" Dia.
WT’ High
£ll7
£39
- ;
£45
OZ3
893
£63
l|2!H »S/9
Eld «l/6t
OTHER LYSAGHT
WATER TANKS
25,400 Gallons— £3ol
50,000 „ -£425
75,000 „ —£533
100,000 „ —£6o4
All Prices F.O.R.
Newcastle
Write for further information to:
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. in all Capital Cities or
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED. NEWCASTLE WORKS
“Separate Tables”
Whatever one thinks of this
piece of lesser Rattigan (lesser
in terms of “Winslow Boy” and
“Browning Version”), he is a
brilliant theatre craftsman,
offering excellent opportunities
to his leading actress. If there
is a reason for the existence
of the play it is the contrast
demanded of the heroine. In
the first episode she must be
stylish, worldly-wise, a fashion-
plate. In the second, a mama-
dominated, repressed mouse of
a girl. And Hollywood is to
film the play with Rita Hay-
worth in one story, and
Deborah Kerr in the second!
The group- of people who
remain as the setting for the
two novelettish stories—Mrs.
Railton-Bell, Lady Matheson,
Mr. Fowler, the pensioned-off
schoolmaster wanted by no one,
the maid Doreen —is a carefully
observed and skilfully depicted
background, so well done that
when the main action is about
to extinguish itself, this group
flares into being and saves the
play from degeneration into
boredom.
Joan Walley was more con-
vincing as the sophisticate than
as the repressed girl, but was
hampered by a curious slowing-
down of pace in the production
to almost Wagnerian adagio
whenever she appeared op-
posite the male lead.' (It seems
strange that producers regard
it as essential to prune an hour
or so out of “Hamlet” but never
snip a lock from the precious
foreheads of Rattigan, Coward
and company.)
In the double male role,
Hugh Curnow suggested far
more power than the play
required. He has now almost
passed through his Brando-
Byrnneria, and is emerging as
an actor with considerable
presence. In plays of greater
theatre-moment than this trifle,
his full power may well be
utilised.
For keenly felt support-
playing, his producer need not
go beyond Myvanwy Bennett,
Ellis Chesney and Freda Little
on this showing for Brisbane’s
Twelfth Night Theatre.
Val Vallis.
❖ ♦> *X*
“His Excellency”
This, by D. and C. M.
Christie, put on at the Union
Theatre, Melbourne University,
is about a Lancashire docker
who, by a series of comic
accidents, becomes a colonial
governor. It is a mild and
gooff-humored satire on social
and political snobbery which,
like most examples of its genus,
wouldn’t hurt anybody much.
In the current production by
university trainee-teachers it
was made even more innocuous
than intended by the innocence
of the actors who went for the
funny bits with their ears back.
John Atkinson, as the governor,
gave the only serious per-
formance.
comedy in modern terms.
Rather, he shifted it back about
a decade to the ’twenties, the
period so resembling the
present that it is possible to
enjoy the play both as costume-
piece and as topical comment
upon the clash between con-
ventional materialism and the
abundant joys of chaotic, un-
conventional living.
In this “unconventional”
household, Mrs. Sycamore
writes plays because someone,
eight years before, delivered a
typewriter to her address by
mistake. Daughter Essie ex-
presses her personality in ballet-
routines all over the house. A
mad Russian teaches her, de-
spite his private view that, as
a dancer, “she stinks.” A
White Russian- princess cooks
the dinner (that is, on the nights
when the negro help is not
available).
This world is linked to the
respectable one by the dullest
member of the family, daughter
Alice, who wishes to marry the
son of a millionaire. Happily,
authors Kaufman and Hart
seem to prefer their zany
family, for in the long-run any
concessions made are by the
pillars of respectability.
Betty Ross’s Mother Syca-
more was so superbly con-
ceived and sustained that
others in leading roles fell
short of her obvious quality.
Of the minor character-studies,
William Pringle, as Essie’s in-
effectual husband, and Linda
Flanders’ dipso, actress gave
something of the "same theatri-
cal thrill.
VAL VALLIS.
Artbursfs
Arthur Boyd
T w e n t y-two allegorical
paintings by Arthur Boyd at
the Australian Galleries, Mel-
bourne, tell the story of a love-
affair between an abo. and a
half-caste girl and the ven-
geance that comes upon them
from a jealous white man.
They are presented as an argu-
ment for assimilation.
The canvases are large arid
the symbols rather terrifying


For everyone with money to invest
THIS COMMONWEALTH
GUARANTEE MEANS
RIAL SECURITY
The Commonwealth of Australia unconditionally guarantees to
every investor in Commonwealth Loans that interest will be
paid regularly on the due dates and that capital will be repaid
at full face value on maturity. No other investment offers
so much.
In addition, a special Income Tax rebate of 2/- in each £1 of
Commonwealth Loan interest, included in the investor’s taxable
income, reduces the amount of tax otherwise payable, and
increases the actual yield considerably above the nominal rate
of interest offered.
Lodge your application now through any bank, savings bank
or stockbroker. You may subscribe by cash or by instalments.
CONVERT 4% COMMONWEALTH SECURITIES
issued between Octbber, 1956, and June, 1957, which mature and
become due for repayment or conversion on May 15, 1958, INTO
NEW COMMONWEALTH SECURITIES.
4% SECURITIES issued ot £9B/17/6%, to yield
£4-8-1%
(Approx, per annum)
1961
MATURING May IS
Minimum subscription, £lOO
r -
a 3 A% SECURITIES issued at £99/-/-%, to yield
£4-17-10 V
(Approx, per annum)
1967
MATURING Feb. 15
Minimum subscription, £lO
5%
SECURITIES issued at par, MATURING Feb. IS,
Minimum subscription, £lO '
1973
INVEST IN THE
COMMONWEALTH
SECURITY LOAN
NOW OPEN
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT IN ALL STATES
Aulhorised by the Commonwealth Treasury .
315LM.27E.48
and difficult of identification,
but the abos. with enormous
eyeballs and the half-castes with
white faces and black legs, the
white apparitions garbed in
what look like wedding-dresses,
and with bouquets of flowers
sprouting out of their heads,
obviously symbolise something
for the artist but are much too
private and personal to mean
much to the general public.
So we are left with the
aesthetic content to consider.
This is possibly not so good
as in the landscapes of Mr.
Boyd,* which, along with Sir
Arthur Streeton’s, have been
selected to represent Australia
at the Venice Biennale. In the
landscape he was under the
influence of Breughel; in his
allegorical paintings he seems
to be derivative of Chagall
and/or Picasso, neither of
whom are likely to lead him
closer to Australia.
❖ *X*
There is a nostalgic interest
in the show, of paintings of the
late A. E. Newbury at the
Tasmanian Tourist Bureau in
Melbourne. Newbury was one
of the earliest of Max
Meidrum’s pupils and left the
National Gallery to go to that
master. He painted relatively
good pictures in the manner of
Meld rum, one of which,
“Chiaroscuro,” is in the current
exhibition. After he left
Meldrum other influences came
into his painting. He got some-
thing from Corot, if only his
trick of putting figures into his
Australian landscapes.
The ghost of Bernard Hall
puts in an appearance in a still-
life of roses. The purest pieces
of work are “Australian
Summer” and “Enchanted
Evening.”
♦j*
For probably the first time
in Melbourne’s history the
hours of opening of an art
show have had to be extended
by imperious public demand.
The show in question is the
Hiroshima panels being
exhibited at the National
Gallery. A continuous proces-
sion has been streaming past
the exhibition, which is being
kept open until eight in the
evening. How much of this
interest is due to the aesthetic
quality of the drawings, which
is high, and how much to the
strong attraction *of their
horrific subject-matter, is a
matter of opinion, but from
either point of view the exhibi-
tion is the most successful the
Gallery has had for a very long
time.


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
DIRECTORS:
THE HON.
T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
M.L.C., chairman;
SIR EDWARD R. KNOX,
VICE-CHAIRMAN ;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT;
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
JOHN DARLING;
A. G. ARMY-TAGE,
MANAGING DIRECTOR.
W. S. MATTHEWS,
MANAGER.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (CANBERRA)
LIMITED
INDUSTRY HOUSE, NATIONAL
CIRCUIT, CANBERRA.
LOCAL DIRECTORS IN ADDI-
TION TO THOSE DIRECTORS
MENTIONED ABOVE:
WARREN D. McDonald,
C.8.E., VICE-CHAIRMAN:
S. G. McFARLANE, C.M.G.;
NEVILLE C. MILSON.
IN YOUR FAMILY’S INTERESTS
You must answer "YES" to these
questions . . .
# Are you interested in reducing/ the
amount of duty payable on your death?
# Do you desire your beneficiaries to
derive the maximum benefit -from your
Estate?
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY LTD.
can help you attain these objects. In these days
of high death duty and high taxation you need
to plan carefully, and as we have specialised in
Estate administration for over 70 years we are
well qualified to advise you.
The service is free and without obligation on
your part.
# Why not ring B 0377 and make an appoint-
ment to call and see a senior officer? If you are
unable to call, perhaps we can send a representa-
tive to call on you, failing which we can send you
a copy of our booklet which contains a lot of
helpful information.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT TAM WORTH AND ORANGE
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (CANBERRA)
LIMITED.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Woolworths, Ltd.
T ARGE and frequent share-issues by
the phenomenally fast-growing rivals,
Woolworths and G. J. Coles, have, in
the past, offset the small initial yields
available to investors buying scrip in
these cos. at market-valuation. While
future issues may bear a smaller relation-
ship to the greatly-expanded paid capitals
of the two concerns, and thus limit the
rate at which the overall yields can be
improved, expansion of the big chain-
store organisations continues apace, the
prospects of further requests for new
capital (and a greater return from that
now being put to work) keeping bids
for the scrip at a high level.
Since 1945 Woolworths has estab-
lished 130 new stores, and at the end
of last term the co. was trading, in
Australia and New Zealand, through 232
branches. Eleven stores, including one'
in. N.Z., were opened during the year,
21 enlarged and two relocated.
However, expansion—and competition
—have taken more than one form m
recent years, development along “super-
market” lines being reflected by regular
additions to the range of merchandise
carried.
In particular, increasing emphasis has
been placed on the sale of foodstuffs,
and Woolworths’ latest move in the cur-
rent term, a successful bid for the share-
capital of prosperous Queensland food-
retailer, -B.C.C. Holding Co., Ltd., has
given the co. a large stake in the food-
retailing field, adding another 32 > stores
to the chain in the process. (Coles’ swift
reply to the B.C.C. deal was a takeover-
offer to shareholders in the Victorian-
registered wholesale grocer and self-
service retailer, John Connell Dickins,
Ltd. Including the 53 stores operated
by John Connell Dickins, Coles now
has over 300 branches.)
Woolworths’ ord. capital (£1,535,186
in 1950) jumped from £4,283,649 to
£8,695,949 over the two years to January
31 last, the most recent issue to share-
holders (one-for-two, at par) occurring
last October. Scrip was also issued to
the vendors of certain properties last
year at a premium of 11s. 6d. a share,
and to staff-members at a premium of
ss. a share, premiums of £55,861 coming
in with the £34,645 of capital involved.
Completion of the 8.8. C. purchase,
which requires the issue of three f.-p. ss.
ords. for each 10s. ord in 8.C.C., will
add approximately £760,000 to paid
capital.
Although earnings have responded to
the rapid intake of new capital, a reduc-
tion in the div.-rate, from 15 p.c. to a
maximum of I2j p.c., was forecast with
the announcement of last year’s share-
issue and the rate has, in fact, been cut
to 12 p.c., the board bearing in mind
the inevitable time-lag between the
receipt of funds and their conversion
into revenue-producing assets.
The B.C.C. deal was highly satisfactory
in this respect and, on last term’s figures,
the immediate return from the investment
should be in the vicinity of 23 p.c., com-
pared with Woolworths’ 15.4 p.c. on the
much higher average ord. capital
employed by the group last year.
With the exception of a number of
stores located in the inner-city area of
Sydney, there was a steady improvement
in sales throughout the chain during the
year to January 31 last. Profit-margins
were a little slimmer, due to the smaller-
mark-up on foodstuffs, but the record-
turnover enabled the parent co. and its
Australian subsidiaries to cover higher
operating-expenses, and, after deducting
divs. on pref. capital held by outside
shareholders, to retfirn a net profit of
£1,174,552, or £94,852 more than the
figure shown in the previous term when
allowance is made for the £40,500 over-
provision for taxation in that year:
Parent Co.
i Dividends-—>—
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord. Re-
£ £ £ £ £
Jan., Prolit. 10 p.c. 7 p.c. 15 p.c. serves.*
1954.. 627,984 7500 14,000 514,122 928,189
From development reserve, £61.172 .. 867,017
1955 . . 876,383 7500 14,000 599,739 1,1^2,161
From development reserve, £112,576 1,009,585
1956 .. 953,103 7500 14,000 642,548 1,298,640
Share premiums, £790,676 .. ..2,089,316
From development reserve, £106,174 1,983,142
1957 .. 1,007,473 7500 14,000 791,648 2,177,467
Parent and Subsidiaries.t
Added on* consolidation, £2,506,5501.. 3,805,190
Share-premiums, £790,676 .. ..4,595,866
From development reserve, £174,926.. 4,420,940
Add reduction intangibles, £33,516..4,454,456
1957 ..1,079,7001 7500 14,000 791,684 4,721,008
. Share-premiums, £55,861 .. ..4,776,869
From development reserve, £133,705.. 4,643,164
Less added intangibles, £1561 ..4,641,603
1958 .. 1,174,552 7500 14,000 898,420 4,896,235
* After deducting intangibles, £405,624 at 31/l/’6B.
1 Excluding Wool worths N.Z., Ltd.
1 After adjusting tax-provisions.
The consolidated profit, reckoned after
providing £724,493 (down £2086) for
taxation and adding a net £256,215 to
the provision for depreciation, etc.,
includes the earnings of Woolworths
N.Z., Ltd., only to the extent of divs.
received. A 12 p.c. div. on ord. capital
as it will stand after all B.C.C. scrip
has been acquired would, with the pref.
divs., call for £1,156,511 or £18,041 less
than last term’s showing, which, of
course, includes nothing from B.C.C.
Of the 16 new stores in course of
construction last month, at least six are
expected to be open for trading during
part of the current term and the remainder
by early next year, when it is anticipated
that extensions to 20 existing stores will
also be completed.
Balance-sheet movements reveal a
gross expenditure on freeholds, fittings,
etc., of not less than £3,355,403 last term,
but-, despite this outlay, working capital
(£2,577,791) improved by £632,431, the
group borrowing an additional £500,000
on 7 p.c. notes and £222,257 on mort-
gages, as well as collecting £2,977,149 in


share- capital and premiums. Freeholds
were revalued in 1955:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.*
Paid capital— 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref .. £275,000 £275,000 £275,000
Ord. . . 4,283,649 5,774,661 8,695,949
Reserves . . 4,242.770 5,125,071 5,301,859
Minority interests 1,378,989 1,675,870 1,681,010
Mortgages, etc. 3,635,921 ' 3,679,785 3,902,042
Notes . . .. 1,100,000 1,045,000 1,490,000
Overdraft . . 926,804 382,715
Creditors, etc... 1,248,015 1,397,897 1,557,577
Staff fund . . 60.324 60,105 60,105
Tax provision .. 1,207,356 1,264,167 1,331,124
Final' divs. . . 747,115 918,614 924,105
Suspense .. 8,082
£18,179,139 £22,142,974 £25,609.628
Fixed assets .. 11,611,277 14,098,429 17,197,617
Investments .. 1,170,984 1,124,122 1.172,910
Stock .. .. 4,408,155 5,999)158 5,812,505
Loans .. 156,583 110,364
Debtors .. 298,621 272,189 291,499
Cash, etc. .. 229.184 85,017 619,109
Intangibles .. 437,579 404,063 405,624
Suspense ■ .. 23,339 3,413
£18,179,139 £22,142,974 £25,609,628
* Excludes accounts of Woolworths N.Z., Ltd.
More efficient stock-control is said to
have been responsible for the small
(£186,653) slip in stocks, the well-proven
combination of ca'sh-sales and quick
stock-turn helping to keep working-
capital requirements to a minimum. Up
£534,092, holdings of cash, etc.,
'amounted to £619,109 at balance-date,
and, with £544,089 clipped-off the over-
draft, finances are in good shape to meet
.the capital-drain resulting from the
building-programme planned for the
current term.
On a 12 p.c. basis, the f.-p. ss. ords.
would return £3 os. 6d. p.c. at 19s. 10d.,
net tangible asset-backing (consolidated
accounts, January 31) amounting to
7s. lOd.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
A GROWING recognition of the value
of life-assurance as a method of
investment and protection has helped
many life-offices to write record amounts
of new business in the post-war years,
attractive bonuses and competitive pre-
mium-rates, backed by actuarial skill,
ensuring that the A.C.A. received, at least,
its fair share of the available business.
The co.’s achievements over the last
decade are all the more impressive when
its switch from a predominantly indus-
trial to an ordinary life-office is taken
into account.
Formed in Sydney 38 years ago, the
A.C.A. successfully avoided many of the
difficulties which beset other life-offices
established after World War I, and within
a relatively few years was operating
branches in Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and Perth.
Up till 1949 the A.C.A. collected the
bulk of its premiums under industrial-
department contracts, but, as collection-
costs rose, more attention was paid to
ordinary-life and non-life business, so
that by the end of the 1955 term the
co. was able to cease writing industrial
policies altogether and still show an
improvement in net premium-income in
the following year.
On the life side, the co. wrote new
policies assuring £2,666,301 last term,
after allowing for reassurances, and
added £44,885 to the net premium
income of life department. Expansion
of the non-life (insurance) departments
(which in the six years to 1956 raised
premium income from £5736 to £73,046)
continued during the term, net insurance
premiums rising by £5089 to £78,135:—/
Income.
( Net Premiums. x Interest,
Life. Non-life. Rents, etc. Total.
1954 ..£541,171 £22,000 £113,584 £676,755
1955 .. 581,206 29,480 115,617 726,303
1956 .. 610,649 73,046 118,976 802,671
1957 .. 655,534 78,135 136,926 870,595
A particularly pleasing jump in invest-
ment income, up £17,950 at £136,926,
took total income for the year to
£870,595.
For a time, the emphasis placed on
O.D. business brought about a sharp
increase in the proportion of “whole-of-
life” to other types of policies (with a
consequent increase in initial expenses),
the change occurring during a period
when many industrial endowment policies
were maturing. As a result, claims and
expenses made-off with a large share of
total revenue for some years, but, over
the last two terms, a decline in industrial
maturities and a more favorable expense-
rate have left substantial surpluses in
the revenue account, and further improve-
ment in this direction can be expected:
June, Income. Claims. Expenses. Debit. Funds.*
£ £ £ £ £
1953.. 222 436,483 242,603 45,589$ 2,762,855
Surplus.
Revaluation freeholds, £200,000 C\. 2,962,855
Unexplained additions, £lB6B .. 2,964,723
1954.. 755 427,285 237,972 10,475 t 2.975,198
Tax refund, £3671 .. .. .. 2,978,869
Revaluation freeholds, etc., £25,215.. 3,004,084
1955.. 439 815 235,680 49,785$ 3,053,869
Tax refund, £247 .. .. .. 3,054,116
Capital profits, etc., £6231 .. .. 3,060,347
1956. .802,671 381,310 229,919 190,164$ 3,250,511
Profit sale assets, £1534 ... .. 3,252,045
1957.. 231,886 253,329 384.101 J 3,636,146
* Net funds apart from capital
t After paying 7 p.c. div. on prefs. and ords.
$ After paying 7 p.c. div. on prefs. and 10 p.c.
on ords.
While death claims were well within
expectations, the drop in total claims
(down £149,430) was more than accounted
for by a steep fall in maturities (down
£176,302 at £84,813). Expenses were a
little higher at 34.5 p.c. of net premiums
(up 18s. p.c.), but the surplus of income
over claims and expenses leapt from
£190,164 to £384,101 —an improvement of
over 100 p.c.
The net return from the life-fund rose
by 2s. Bd. p.c. to £4 os. sd. p.c., the
widening margin between the £3 10s. p.c.
earning-rate assumed in estimating
policy-liabilities and the rate actually
earned permitting a further increase in
bonus-rates (for the third successive year
in the case of whole-of-life contracts) on
all O.D. policies.
Excluding bonuses, the sum assured
under policies in force at June 30 last
was £15,630,870, or .almost two-and-a-
half times the figure given in 1946.
At £57,000 (up £3000), the provision
for unexplred risks, under non-life
contracts, was well above the recognised
40 p.c. of net premiums, a modest £1278
being appropriated from the earnings of
the insurance departments for divs. on
the £14,610 paid capital.
The progress made over the last two
terms can be seen in the balance-sheet,
total assets increasing by £573,646 to
£3,797,057 between 1955 and 1957
1955. 1956. 1957.
Capital .. .. £14,610 £14,610 £14,610
Reserves and pro-
visions .. .. 52,128 58,445 71,193
Liabilities 153,910 144,484 145,021
Unexpired risks re-
serve .. .. 26,000 54,000 57.000
Life fund.. .. 2,976,763 3,139,344 3,509,233
£3,223,411 £3,410,883 £3,797,057
Freeholds .. .. 780,086 767,177 757.014
Miuipment, etp. . . 64,097 63,775 69,444
Shares, subsidiary 13,323 13,323 13.323
Shares, debs., etc. 372,747 369,330 378,291
Mortgages . . 938.350 910,345. 965,579
Loans .. . . 588,082 657,073 728,650
Debtors .. .. 24,754 60.504 32,891
Govt, securities, etc. 419,487 545,238 782,197
Cash, etc. .._ ~ 22,485 24,118 09,608
£3,223,411 £3,410,883 £3,797,057
Changes in the investment pattern left
Government ' and semi - Government
securities (up £236,959) accounting for
20.5 p.c. of total assets, as against 16 p.c.
in the preceding term, loans on mortgage
(up £55,234), which have always figured
prominently in A.C.A. accounts, slipping
from 26.6 p.c. to 25.4 p.c.
The scrip is not listed.
Miller Anderson, Ltd.
A FTER wilting a little in the previous
term from the effects of the generally-
felt fiscal thumbscrews, the profit-graph
of this long-established Adelaide out-
fitter and general draper, star performer
of the Marcus Clark group, last year
resumed its steady and convincing post-
war climb.
Turnover was again at record levels,
and although net earnings were still below
the peak 1955 figure of £41,726, the
£39,404 claimed for the year ended
January 31, representing as it did a
£4031 improvement on the 1957 show-
ing, seems satisfactory enough, taking
into consideration the difficulties
associated with the take-over last August
of the business of McConnochies
Emporium, Ltd., for the purpose of
establishing a branch-store at Clare
(S.A.), the centre of a wealthy grazing
and winegrowing district about 85 miles
from headquarters.
Consideration for the deal is not dis-
closed, but the purchase-price was,
according to chairman R. C. Clark,
“very favorable,” while the initial results
from branch-trading have proved “most
satisfactory.”
In deriving the profit-figure, conserva-
tively based provisions were set aside for
taxation (£27,000) and for depreciation
and other contingencies (£11,600). The
6 p.c. cumulative prefs. participated to
their 8 p.c. limit for the eighth year in
succession, and, together with the
ordinaries, which have been paid at the
rate of 10 p.c. for the last four years,
absorbed leaving £10,904 to be
carried forward to reserves, which owe
£263,373 of their present stature to a
revaluation of freeholds effected in 1956.
In addition, a surplus £7OOO was brought


OOO'OOO'ffS'i
ASSETS E* c
ASSETS EXCEED £55,000,000 • ASSETS EXCEED £55,000,000 • ASSETS EXC
INVEST FOR SECURITY
IN REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
7/per annum .6 yrs.
per annum .4 yrs.
SUper annum... 2 yrs.
54per annum... 1 yr.
4V/»per annum... 9 mths.
4 X per annum... 6 mths.
3V4 per annum... 3 mths.
Full details are clearly shown in the Prospectus. Ask for your
copy from Members of the Stock Exchange , the 703 branches of the
AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND BANK LTD. or . . .
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
(Established 28 years)
SYDNEY * MELBOURNE • BRISBANE ♦ ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART • CANBERRA • NEWCASTLE
WOLLONGONG * GEELONG * BUNBURY
£55,000,000 • ASSETS EXCEED £55.000,000 • ASSETS EXCEED £55,000,000
AS^>
Underwriting Brokers:
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne,
Canberra & Sydney.
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders:
The Perpetual Executors& Trustees
Association of Australia Limited.
EXCEED £55,000,000 • ASSETS EXCEED
o
o
o
<0'
DSQ
to light from accumulated tax-
provisions :
, ——Dividends Re-
Jan. Profit. Pref, Ord. Total, serves.
31, £ p.c. p.c. £ £
From tax provision, £12,000 35,532
1948.. 24,297 6 6 11,100 48,729
1949.. 31.175 7 7 ' 12,950 60.954
Unexpl’ed addition, £5249 72,203
1950.. 28.015 7 7 12,950 87,418
1951. .35,985 8 8 20,000 103,403
1952.. 35.137 8 8 20,000 118,540
1953.. 33.325 8 8 20,000 131,865
1954.. 37.510 8 8 20,000 149,381'
1955.. 41.726 8 10 23,400 167,707
’Assets revalued, £263,373.. 431,080
1956.. 39.092 8 10 24,250 445,922
1957.. 35,373 8 10 28,500 452,795
From tax provision, £7OOO
1958.. 39.404 8 10 28,500 470,699
Profit was £33,004 for the
ords., a majority of which are
held by Miller Anderson’s
Sydney counterpart, Marcus
Clark, -Ltd. At this stage,
earning-rates on average
ordinary capital aren’t quite as
healthy-looking as they were
before the ord. share-issue of
£51,000 in 1956—15.0 p.c. in
1958, compared with 13.1, 18.5,
?0.8, 18.3, 15.8, 16.9 p.c. back
to 1952—but the full benefits
of the current expansion are
yet to be felt.
No transfer of freehold
property entered into the Clare
transaction, the chief effects of
which’ are reflected in the higher
figure for inventories and stock-
in-transit (at lower of cost or
valuation, less devaluation pro-
vision), assessed at £298,111 (up
£34,779); and the added
£35,762 written against trade-
debtors. Recourse was had to a
further £55,802 of overdraft
funds, but, overall, finances
seem well-geared and stable:
Paid capital— 1957. 1958.
Pref £BO,OOO £ 80,000
Ord. . , . . 221.000 221,000
Reserves .. 452,795 470.699
Mortgage .. 176,000 168,000
Overdraft . . 5,161 60,963
Creditors, etc. .. 47,754 65,771
Tax provision .. 57,608 53,237
Final div. ~ 14,250 14,250
£1,054,568 £1,133,920
Freeholds .. 624,273 630,259
Furniture, fittings,
etc 59,864 62,694
Stock .. .. 263,332 298,111
Debtors .. .. 106,652 142,414
Cash .. .. 447 442
£1,054,568 £1,133,920
Freeholds are at 1956 valuation
except in the case of the
Theatre Royal property in
Adelaide’s Hindley Street,
which was bought in 1956 and
is shown at cost.
• Despite the sizeable revalua-
tion reserve, amounting to
£263,373, co.-members have no
immediate “increment” pro-
spects ; however, the share-
market classes the 20s. ords.
as good holding scrip, offering
295. 6d. (cjf-div.) for a 6.8 p.c.
yield. The publicly-held 20s.
prefs. were recently fetching
around 21s. 4d. (7.3 p.c.).
On book-values at January 31
last, net for the ords.
was 625. 7d., for the prefs.
£9 13s.
A. J. Veall Electrics, Ltd.
HTRADING profits of the
± successful A. J. Veall
Electrics group have dwindled
i„ ot r
°' er fhe last couple of years,
and the organisation has
derived tbe bulk of itc earn
uenvcu me ouiK oi ns earn-
ings from an investment in the
erstwhile subsidiary, Corartie
Pty.
Indeed, at first glance, one
could easily wonder why the
parent co. and its remaining
15 subsidiaries go to all
the trouble of whole-
saling and retailing elec-
trical goods when, in the
1956 and 1957 terms, divs. from
Corartie were more than
sufficient to cover the 7 p.c.
pref. and 15 p.c. ord. divs. sent


First mortgage debenture stock is
now available on a long term
or short term basis from
§§lt§
GENERAL CREDITS LTD.
Directors: Eric Hughes (Chairman),
V. H. Stanley-Low (Managing), J. F.
Hughes, J. M. Ford, F . G. Menzies,
C.8.E., H. F. Clarke.
LONG TERM
4 years— 6Vi%
5-10 years
7% RETURN PER ANNUM
SHORT TERM
3 months - 3VI %
6 months —4%
9 months - —4 Vi %
12 months 5 %
Interest paid quarterly free of exchange.
Cumulative stock carrying 6£% compounded
on yearly rests with currencies of 5 to 15
years. Bankers are the Commercial Bank of
Australia Limited, from whom the prospectus
Is available, and from Members of the
Stock Exchanges and Company Offices at
235 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
This is not a prospectus .and does not constitute an
Invitation to subscribe.
CD
BROKERS
J. B WERE & SON
out by A. J. Veall Electrics,
Ltd., itself. However, among
the numerous reasons -for this
course of action is the fact that
Corartie depends on the A. J.
Veall group for its hire-
purchase business. Not that the
prosperous associate relies on
h.-p. transactions alone for its
livelihood, the co. s investments
in over 200 well-assorted public
cos. having, a market-value in
excess of £2,250,000 at the end
of the last financial year.
A holding co., A. J. Veall
Electrics was formed in 1951,
acquiring the share-capital of
11 associated pty. cos. in the
same year at a cost of £350,000
in scrip and £150,000 in cash,
the latter amdunt being sub-
scribed by employees and the
public. The subsidiary cos.,
engaged in the retail of domestic
appliances, etc., in Melbourne
and the wholesale of the same
lines throughout Victoria, had
developed from a business
established in 1911 by Arthur
J. Veall, the present chairman
of the parent co.
Pref. capital was raised in
1954 (£200,000), early in 1956
(£250,000) and again last term
(£25,000), a one-for-one bonus-
issue in the 1956 term lifting
ord. capital to £1,000,000. The
pref. div.-rate was increased
from 6 to 7 p.c. at the time of
the bonus-issue,
To relieve a tight liquid posi-
tion and provide for expan-
siorij A j Veall Electrics
borrowed £400,000 on 7£ p.c.
and g notes last November
and the CQ
is currently seeking
term-deposits, offering interest
ra tes ranging from 3d to
71 p.c. p ar t Q f the funds raised
in this manner will be passed
on to Corartie, presumably in
the form of advances,
At the end of last term
current liabilities and pro-
visions (£1,174,298) exceeded
current assets by £335,513, the
largest . single item in the
balance - sheet being the
1,300,000 £1 15 p.c. cum.
prefs., valued at £1,800,000,
held in Corartie. At June 30
that co.’s h.-p. outstandings,
excluding unearned income,
amounted to £1,214,277.
A “leading life-assurance co.”
took-up 25,000 £1 prefs. during
the year, another £2250 of pref.
capital coming in from a
previous issue:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital—- , 1956. 1957.
Pref. .. .. £447,750 £475,000
Ord. .. .. 1,000,000 1,000,000
Reserves .. 505,975 567,147
Mortgage .. 107,034 105,708
Overdraft .. 447,630 491,180
Deposits .. 195,000 80,000
Creditors, etc. ... 292,277 481,232
Due associate co. 58,000
Tax prevision .. 42,761 30,261
Final div. . .. 90,554 91,625
£3,186,988 £3,322,153
Freehold .. 224.227 244,527
Plant, etc. ■ .. 82,214 84,969
Shares .. .. 1,808,305 1,808,339
Stock .. .. 465,233 438,114
Debtors, etc. .. 256,632 331,709
Associate co. 62,547
Cash, etc. .. 4,844 6,415
Intangibles .. 345,533 345,533
£3,186,988 £3,322,153
When the accounts were ruled-
off, creditors were waiting for
an extra £188,955 and there
was an additional £43,550
owing to the bank. However,
the net increase in outside
liabilities was limited io
£46,743, due to a sharp fall in
deposits (down £115,000) and
the repayment of £58,000 owing
to an associated co. (replaced by
an advance to that co. of
£62,547).
There was a weaker demand
for a number of domestic
appliances during the term
ended June 30 last (Australian
production of refrigerators and
washing-machines dropped by
54,500 units and 21,600 units
respectively over the period),
and, although the fillip given to
sales of TV-receivers in Mel-
bourne by the Olympic Games
checked the drift in turnover,
pre-tax trading-profit fell from
£107,790 to £83,740. Neverthe-
less a smaller provision for
taxation (down £12,526 at
£30,261) and an extra £14,868
•in investment income (£195,548)
left consolidated earnings £3344
stronger at £249,027:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Re-
June Profit, e Dividends—s, serves.*
£ £ £
19 )3.. 65,100 9 p.c. = 45,000 349.774
Profit sale assets, £275 .. 350,04t*
less subsidiaries’ reserves,
£BB6O 341,189
Intangibles w/off, £Bl5O. . 333,039
From investment, res.. £3774 329,265
Unexpl’d reduction, £58,726 270,539
6 p>c. 10 p.c.
Pref. Ord.
1954.. 287 6,650 50,000\ 317,176
Profit sale assets, £129 .. 317,305
As>ets revalued. £517,250.. 834,555
Unexpl'd reduction £9197.. 825,358
20 p.c.
1955.. 925 12,000 100,000 918,283
Res. capitalised, £500,000 418,283
Loss sale assets, £32 . . 418,251
Tax overprovided. £2576.. 429,827
W/otf intangibles, £10,195 410,632
15 p.c.
1956.. 245.683 25,340 125,000 505,975
Profit sale assets, £516 .. 506,491
Tax underprovided, £3606 502,885
Share-issue expenses, etc.,
£1484 501,401
Unexpl’d addition, £334.. 501,735
1957.. 33,615 150,000 567,147
*Subjeet to intangibles, £345,533 at
30/6/’57.
After covering the larger pref.
div., the record profit equalled
a return of 21.5 p.c. on ord.
capital, compared with 22 p.c.
on the same figure in the
previous year.
New stores in two Mel-
bourne suburbs were opened
recently, bringing the number
of retail outlets up to 12 and
further additions are planned.
The sustained demand for
TV-receivers in the current term
should strengthen trading
profits and an improvement in
both sales and earnings over
the first half of the term has
been reported by the board,
while the chairman, last month,
forecast “record results” for
the full year. Confirming the
upward trend in sales, Corartie’s
outstandings are expected to
increase by approximately
£1,000,000.
Preferring to wait and see,
the sharemarket prices the
f.-p. ss. ords. at Bs. 4d. to
return 9 p.c. from a 15 p.c,
div. Net tangible asset backing
at June 30 last was 6s. Id.
Unchanged interim divs.
were sent out in April.


GENERAL MOTORS
Acceptance Corporation, Australia
(Incorporated in U.S.A.—Limited Liability)
LOAN STOCK
NEW
£1,500,000
Registered Unsecured
Loan Stock
ISSUE AT PAR
2
PER ANNUM
4 YEARS
P€*' ANNUM
%
6 YEARS
10 YEARS
Any multiple of £lOO may. be invested in any or all of the currencies
—4 years, 6 years, 10 years. GMAC, Australia has the right to
repay earlier. Conditions of repayment ihcluding premiums are set
out in the Prospectus.
NOW OPEN
Copies of the Prospectus and Application Forms available from:
BRANCHES OF COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION. AUSTRALIA
Underwritten by
THE ANGLO-AUSTBALIAN CORP. PTY. LTD.
Melbourne. Sydney
Brokers to the Issue
lAN POTTER & CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Canberra
(This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an invitation to tho
public to subscribe for the Loan Stock mentioned herein.)
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, May 5.
TVew Zealand is facing heavier
cuts in imporfs next year.
The Minister of Finance, Mr.
Nordmeyer, told the Federation
of Labor conference that,
when the present licensing-
schedule was drawn-up last
December, it seemed that wool
would bring in £lO7 million.
Since 'then wool prices had
gone down and down, and
now N.Z. would be lucky if it
received £BO million from wool.
Meat would return £8 million
less than estimated. Butter
would probably bring £26
million less than the guaranteed
price paid to dairyfarmers.
Foodstuffs, chinaware, hard-
ware, motorcars and spirits are
among the items which, it has
been unofficially suggested,
will be subject to additional
cuts.
F. P. Walsh Speaks Plyinly
Probably nothing has
done more to impress the
average man with the serious-
ness of the present economic
situation than the straight-
forward statement by the
president of the Federation of
Labor, Mr. F. P. Walsh, to
the federation’s annual con-
ference that a claim for a
general wage-Increase could
not be justified.
Any such claim, he said,
would make the federation look
foolish and would embarrass
the Labor Government.
Financially, he declared, the
country was worse-off than it
had been for 20 years. There
was even a prospect that N,Z.
might not be able to find
enough money to buy all the
raw materials needed for use
in the factories.
Most newspapers devoted
nearly a page to the speech in
which Walsh took a realistic
and objective look at N.Z.’s
most pressing problems. He
made no effort to play-down
the difficulties ahead, but did
come up with one reassuring
conclusion that the people
would not again go through the
privations they suffered during
the depression of the ’thirties.
The Government this time, he
said, had power to safeguard
the highest level of employ-
ment, and the phenomenal
growth of manufacturing in-
dustries in the last 25 years
provided many more oppor-
tunities for work.
Trade-unionists got a straight
talking-to during the con-
ference. Mr. Walsh stressed the
need for workers to assist in
bringing about the maximum
possible production, and
pointed-out that, to enable the
best use to be made of exist-
ing plant, it would be neces-
sary to extend the system of
shift-work.
Labor and I.M.F.
Some influential sections of
the Labor party, it seems, are
not now irrevocably opposed
to joining the International
Monetary Fund and the World
Bank. The fact that Australia
has raised another loan from
the bank at 4\ per cent, while
N.Z. is having to pay 6 per
cent, for its London loan has
not gone unnoticed.
In his address to the Federa-
tion of Labor conference Mr.
Walsh, who seems to fill the
role of the party’s chief
economist, said that all sources
of finance, including I.M.F.
and the World Bank, should be
examined in the light of the
country’s economic difficulties
and not from a preconceived
doctrinaire approach.
The P.M., Mr. Nash, said
next day that there had been
no change in the Labor party's
policy. (In its manifesto the
party said that it could not see
the need for N.Z. to join and
did not believe that any real
benefit could accrue.) This
attitude, however, may be in
process of modification. There
are some grounds for thinking
that Mr. Nash, who was one
of the chief architects of the
Bretton Woods organisations,
may personally favor joining.
The Dairyfarmer
The writing is on the wall for
the N.Z. diaryfarmer. There
seems no doubt that a drastic
revision of the guaranteed-
price scheme is imminent.
Mr. Nash told the F.O.L.
conference that the present
5-per-cent.-a-year limit on any
reduction in the guaranteed
price was impracticable. (It
is hard to see how this state-
ment could be questioned. It is
only necessary to look at the
cold facts. Butter is selling in
London at £206 a ton, but
farmers are receiving the
equivalent of £345 a ton.)
The basic principle of the
scheme, Mr. Nash said, had
been destroyed by the 1952
decision to make full payout
from realisations at„a time of
high and rising prices. In the
years 1951 to 1956 farmers had
received £7,750,000 more than
the guaranteed price,
XT . ~ , ,
Mr - Nash added-and again
seems impossible
. j hat advances to the dairy -
industry from the Reserve Bank
should not be a source of
profit to the industry>
». ~
. M fl r * Walsh P ut tbe
bne Ay when he said. While
the Government, through the
Reserve Bank, has been lending
the dairy-industry money at
1 P er cent., the dairy-industry
has been receiving 4 per cent,
from the Government for its
pool accounts.” These 1 per
cent, advances to the dairy-
industry, according to Mr.
Walsh, are the biggest single
inflationary factor in the
economy.


The Big Rush
By "OLD CORK "
I T had been a hot, windless
day ; one of those Terri-
tory days when the air is
bone-dry and the sun
seems to burn right through
you, with enervating heat; and
the moon, near full, was just
topping the tree-tops across the
river when the first watch took-
over, after a hurried meal, with
a streak of daylight still in the
west.
I was tired as I seldom tired
in those days, as 1 rode into
camp and unsaddled my horse ;
but two liberal helpings of
Horace’s bacon and corned-
beef stew, washed down with
strong, black, sugary tea,
improved my spirit.
The mob was camped about
a quarter-mile south of the
campfire, and about the same
distance out from the river on
the concave of a wide bend,
With the plain stretching widely
to south and west, and the
Erskine closing-in to the north,
three-quarters-of-a-mile distant.
The Southern Downs mob was
about a half-mile further south
on the other side of the river,
fairly close-in to the bend of
it. They were, as Joe Darrell
said, “too bloody close ; but we
can’t help it now.”
As I finished my tea and
rolled out my swag our mob
had almost settled down ; a few
still restless and calling, and
in the still air answering calls
from the Southern Downs mob
came clearly-: Joe Darrell had
gone out with Martin and
stayed for a while. He came
in as I lit my pipe for the last
time and lay down. Letting his
horse go he came over and
stood at the fire beside Harling-
ford, who sat gazing into it
with his usual morose expres-
sion.
, “I was tellin’ Sam Martin he
should’ve sent someone in to
see it was all clear before he
came in to water.”
“Well, we seen dust rising
across the river'and we thought
you was drafting there to give
us a clear go.”
“That must have been that
Southern Downs lot.”
“Anyhow, why didn’t you
send someone out to hold us
up?” asked Harlingford.
“Because I was going to camp
on the other side, and when
I did send someone it was too
late ; you was on top of ,us.”
“I don’t bloody-well like it,”
said Harlingford. I’d never
hqard him say so much before.
“We’re too bloody -close to
them, and if either mob gets a
fright and rings-up, they'll all
go.”
“Well, forget it now. Better
turn-in, you ain’t got long to
go.”
, “Aw! It ain’t worth it. I’ll
sit up till ten now."
I heard no more ; if Harling-
ford couldn’t sleep I could, and
I was dead to the world in a
matter of seconds, pipe still hot
in my hand.
•pDDIE RISSELL shook me
awake.
“Come on, Corky, you ol\i
b *, time to get out orf
watch. I’ve got a mug of tea
and a lump of brownie for
you.”
Drugged with sleep, I rolled
out and staggered over to the
fire and picked-up the tea.
Harlingford was already mount-
ing his mare and the three
blacks were walking towards
the night-horses. The blacks,
from preference more than
from any racial-segregation
ideas on our part, had their
own campfire and sometimes
did their own cooking.
Jacky was sitting on an up-
turned bucket, with a pannikin
of tea, laughing at something
Eddie had just said. He looked
at me and grinned widely.
“Cripes, Corky! You can
sleep all right. I’ll bet you the
mob goes tonight, so you better
not go to sleep on watch.”
“Well, they seem quiet
enough to me. Anyhow, I’ll
bet you ten-bob I get to the
lead before you if they do go.”
“What! On old Dunlop? He
couldn’t catch a lame bandi-
coot.”
This was a libel, and he
knew it, Dunlop being as good
as, if not better than, any night-
horse on the place, and
certainly neither old nor slow.
Rising five years old, he was
in his prime, a bright bay with
black points short-coupled
and stocky, but clean-limbed
with small hard hooves, as
handy as a camp-horse and with
a ton of stamina ; the type they
used to call a Galloway. He
was my favorite - and I used
him as often as I could.
O r _ „ , . , ,
LD Booda-booda, not alone
f . , ,
managers, fettsh about
night-horses. They were ear-
marked for the job when
r , , i , •
foaled, were broken-in more
thoroughly than most for the
purpose and given a few months
in a stock-camp having the
raw edges rubbed off them
and learning to work cattle ;
and then it was at the peril of
one’s life that they were used
for anything but night watch-
ing.
I learned a lesson I never
forgot only a week or so after
my arrival at The Lakes, when
deputed one morning to take a
message to the homestead from
a camp about five miles out.
Darrell said to “take any of
the spare horses, they’re all
quiet,” and I took the first I
came to, it being an easy one
to catch.
About a mile from camp j
rnet Booda-booda riding his
favorite long-legged chestnut
hack and j thought he was
going to take to me with his
whip,
~ A t
~ ? e ' oft , ,ha > horse u ?»“
blasted, useless young b ,
before I drag you off.”
r , . , t
In great astonishment and
considerable trepidation I slid
out of the s J dle , He dis „
mounted too
~, „ . * ,
Who told you to ride that
horse 9” J
< ‘
. , ° one ’ sir '
*' ockman said to take any of
e spares,
That’s not a bloody spare,
that’s a night-horse / Look
here!” He placed his finger
just above the brand on the
shoulder. “See that star? Every
horse on this place with that
mark is a night-horse or a
camp-horse, and if I find you
using either for any other work
again, I’ll give you the father
a hiding and sack you.
Darrell should have told you.”
He made me unsaddle and,
while he drove the liberated


,
3| ,
m
Wmimt
m
ET
mm
■“ ** : -.:
1- <•*'
H *
> •■■■■
m 1
mm
m,m i
ini
It
*
aaaJlf
m
has pleasure in
announcing a further
THE THIRD IH THE
LAST FIVE YEARS
This restores A.M.P.
bonus rates to
the highest level
reached for more
than twenty years
m
AMICUS CERTUS IN RE IN'
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
PRINCIPAL BOARD:
CECIL H. HOSKLNS, Chairman; S. G. ROWE, Deputy Chairman;
THE HON. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.; G. GORDON RUSSELL; C. G. CRANE;
VINCENT C. FAIRFAX; GEOFFREY H. GRIMWADE.
General Manager: M. C. BUTTFIELD.
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the Unquestioned security afforded by funds exceeding £375,000,000 which the Society seeks to Invest to the greatest benefit to members
CliJrl


THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans,
Music, etc.
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Built entireLy in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold Sc Co. Pty. Ltd.
« Norman Bro*. Pty. Ltd.
• . Vardon Price Ltd.
• Docket Book Co. (Aost.)
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in «
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
night-horse, carry my saddle
back to camp.
“That’ll teach you a lesson
you won’t forget.”
Fortunately my saddle,
though strong, was light; made
by Palazzi of Cunnamulla, a
maker as well-known in those
days as Weineke was and still
is.
Many of our night-horses
were foals of mares which had
themselves been trained to
that vocation, some having two
or three generations of
ancestresses so dedicated.
It was a policy that paid
dividends. The Lakes cattle
were reputed to be good
campers, except when camped
near timber, which seemed to
make them restless; but my
opinion is that they acquired
the reputation through genera-
tions of being watched by
experienced and reliable night-
horses.
TTARLINGFORD was half-
way to the cattle when
Jacky and I mounted and rode
out followed by Captain,
Spectre and Mick, and as we
approached the mob we met
the first of the first watch
coming in. It was another and
older jackeroo, Joe Birming-
ham, who after the war became
a manager. He called, “All
yours, boys, and quiet as a
graveyard.”
If the size of the mob was
impressive in daylight, it was
more so by bright moonlight.
I always used to think riding
round a mob of cattle, in the
white sea of the plain, was
like sailing round an island:
this was like coasting a con-
tinent. Sleeping cattle faded
into the moonlight haze as far
as eye could reach on either
hand.
Before we reached the cattle,
Jacky had gone ahead of me,
round the west side, after
Harlingford. I rode straight
out and hit the mob about
150yds. behind him, where I
picked-up one of the old watch,
and rode a few yards with him
before he broke-off. Spectre
and Captain came in behind'
me at similar distances, and by
the time Harlingford had made
his first circuit, the six of us
were spaced 150 to 200yds.
apart, all riding anti-clockwise ;
and the first watch was relieved.
It was still hot and windless ;
but Dunlop stepped along
briskly, head held high, ears
pricked, occasionally turning an
appraising eye on the cattle.
We came to a big white cow,
with a big lump of a “mickey”
bunting at her, and the horse,
it seemed to me, paused as if
to assess her potentialities for
trouble. Otherwise there didn’t
seem to be a beast on its feet
in the whole mob.
I could hear Jacky away
ahead of me, singing in his light
melodious voice, or alternately
talking to the cattle, and beyond
him Harlingford’s doleful
chant. So still was the air 1
could even hear one of the
blacks right across the other
side, and that was a con-
siderable distance. Everything
remained quiet until near mid-
night.
TT was popularly supposed
A that exactly at midnight
cattle on camp will rise, stretch,
turn-round, and lie down
again. I doubt whether they
are as chronologically exact as
that; but certainly round
about that time they will do so.
In the space of a few minutes
every beast will be on its feet,
stretching, perhaps pawing the
ground gently, and a general
murmur of bovine conversation
pervades the camp. Then one
after the other they will subside,
settle themselves into the dust
and then emit a long sigh of
content. Within a quarter-of-
an-hour or so the camp will be
quiet again.
This is supposed to be one
of the danger-periods, and
many drovers religiously
change watches just before mid-
night so that there is a double
watch for this period. The
half-dozen or more real rushes
I was involved in started when
the cattle were lying down,
apparently content. Moreover,
I have never yet been able to
assign a reason. If a sound
startled them it was a sound to
which human ears are not
attuned. Whatever it is it
, seems to affect every beast
• simultaneously and without
i warning.
There is perfect peace and
quiet one moment; the next,
every beast is on its feet and
in full motion. Moreover,
they are usually grimly quiet.
It is not until the rush has
stopped, or steadied, that
they begin bellowing and
making a scared and inquiring
corroboree.
I had stopped, or rather
Dunlop had pulled-up volun-
tarily for one of his brief
spells and I pulled out the old
silver lever-watch my father
had given me when I left home,
and noted that the time was
11.45 p.m.
A match flickered away
across the mob as someone lit
his, pipe. Instinctively 1 pulled
my pipe out and began to fiH it,
first riding a short way out
from the cattle, though the
striking of a match doesn t
seem to startle them.
11/fY finger and thumb had
. *■ closed round the tin box
of matches in the pocket under
my belt when Dunlop stiffened,
head held high, as you will
often see a thoroughbred in the
saddling-paddock gazing into
distance and seeing or hearing
something beyond our ken.
Then he jumped, as they
jumped, almost unseating me,
and before I had properly
regained my balance I found
myself borne at a flat gallop on
the flank of a thunderous sea
of beef. It was my first real
rush, and for the first minute
or two I rode blind and deaf,
sitting in the saddle by instinct.
I found myself with a queer
mixture of apprehension,
anxiety and exhilaration. I
glanced to my left at the sea
of moving backs and gleaming
horns. We seemed awfully
close to them ; but I guessed
the horse knew what he was
doing and I made no attempt to
interfere with him, merely
keeping a light tension on the
reins. The moon, high now,
was over my left shoulder and
showed red through the dense
cloud of dust.
I heard nothing for a while
except the mob: but I was
closing-up on Jacky, who was
himself closing on Harling-
ford, and soon I heard the
loud crack of Harlingford’s
whip above the thunder and as
we gradually drew closer his
peculiar “Hor! Hor! Hor!”
endlessly repeated. In between,
came Jacky’s high-pitched
“Whoa boys! Whoa poddies!”
Jacky didn’t carry a whip at
any time.
I did, but I hadn’t used it so
far, waiting until I got near
the lead, close to where
Harlingford must have been.
The rush, as near as I could
make-out, was headed south,
and I remember thinking we
weren’t wise trying to wheel
them towards the river.
1 had just caught a faint
glimpse of Jacky about 30 or
40yds. ahead, when he uttered
a loud and frightened yell, and
as he did Dunlop swerved
violently to the right, almost
unseating me. I suddenly found
myself heading west instead of
south, with the thundering
hooves right behind me and
seeming horribly close.
Then I heard Jacky again, to
my left, not far away, and
Dunlop swerved quickly again
and raced across to him, and
close in front of him, while the
new lead of the mob raced
past. Just ahead of Jacky, I
now found myself level with
the leaders, which were on my
right-hand ; I unslung my whip
and started to swing it as hard
as I could go, while Dunlop
kept close-in to the cattle I
could now barely see.
I hadn’t heard a sound from
Harlingford since the mob
changed direction ; but r as the
leaders began to turn north
more and more, I could hear a
whip somewhere a good way
behind. The cattle were slow-
ing-down, now, and beginning
to falter, and presently, without
warning, the leaders turned
right back and a confused
bellowing broke-out as the
mixed-up milling which
heralded the end of the rush
drowned all other sounds.
T\UNLOP eased to a canter
and then to a walk, still
close-in on the mob, as Jacky
ranged up beside me.
“Gripes, Corky, that was a
go! I’M bet it scared the day-
lights out of you. Wonder
what made ’em turn like that;
I thought they was over the
top of me for a minute.”
“They bloody near were on


IY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS,
JOHN WALKER l SONS LTD.
mM
nr.
lOXN TtZO STILL GOING STRONG
JOHNNIE
WAkKER
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
\ JOHN WALKER S SONS LTD., SCOTCH /
\ WHISKY DISTILLERS. OF KILMARNOCK. /i
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY. /I
jw.ioo.ta
top of me. Anyhow, you owe
me ten-bob ; I got to the lead
first.”
“Like hell! You wouldn’t
have been near it if they hadn’t
switched round; Harlingford
and I were right on top of
’em. Wonder where he is?”
“I dunno.” We could hear
voices ahead and behind us
calling to the cattle. “You go
on and ride round till you meet
someone. I’ll go back the other
way for a while.”
I turned and we separated,
but I hadn’t gone far when
a horseman loomed-up through
the pall of thick dust which now
hung motionless. As he
approached I yelled: “That you
Harlo?”
He came up and a strange
voice said, “No, I’m with the
Southern Downs crowd.”
“Cripes, I’d „ forgotten
them. What, happened?”
/ I turned again and rode
beside him, as I could hear
more coming around and
didn’t want to leave too big a
gap, although no cattle were
making any attempt to move
out of the mob.
“Well, our mob jumped
when yours did. They were
across the river before we could
stop them. We had no chance
until they hit' your lead and
turned it.”
A BIT further on another
figure loomed-up coming
toward us and the unmistakable
voice of Joe Darrell called,
with a note of strain and
anxiety, “That you Corky? I
seen Jacky and he told me you’d
gone back to look for Harling-
ford. Did you find him?”
“No ; but I didn’t go far.”
“Well, better come back with
me. There’s plenty back that
way. Punch got some horses
up and everyone's out.”
Counting the Southern
Downs team of six, there were
twenty-four of us now round
the still violently milling cattle,
only Eddie Rissell and Horace
being left in our Camp ; and
the former caught himself a
horse later and came out
against Joe’s orders.
Joe and I rode anti-clock-
wise right round the mob,
meeting man after man, but
not Harlingford, the last one
accounted for being Sam
Martin, who was riding with
Jacky. He hadn’t seen Harling-
ford,
“Poor bastard ; he must’ve
gone down when they
switched,” Joe said in a hushed
voice.
I had explained to Joe what
had happened as. far as I knew
it.
“He shouldn’t have rode
that filly. Gripes! I never
seen nothing like this.” Then
to Sam Martin, “You ride
round that way and we’ll go
this. Get the boys spaced out
pretty well and tell ’em to keep
moving. They go again
tonight; but they won’t settle-
down neither.”
As we started-off again I
felt for my pipe—in vain. It
must have fallen from my
fingers when the cattle and
Dunlop jumped together.
We began a long wearying
ride round and round the
bellowing, restless mob, the
moon, past its zenith now,
casting a dim light through the
thick, choking dust. We
stopped now and then for a
few words with one of the
riders. It was not long be-
fore we came across young
Eddie Rissell, though he tried
to dodge us, and Joe gave him
a sharp reprimand for coming
out: “Now ye’re here ye can
stay with me.” So Eddie and
I dropped in behind Joe and
in a subdued voice I answered
his eager questions about the
rush.
TAAY broke on a sea of
moving cattle-backs which
seemed endless. It was hard
~to pick-out riders on the far
side until at last the move-
ment eased considerably and
the dust began to settle.
As the light increased Joe
said to me. “Go back that way
and tell everyone to let ’em
spread out a bit; but not too
wide. I’ll have to try to split
’em up a bit bbfore we’ll have
a chance to draft. Tell Sam
soon’s they settle-down a bit
to send half the hands in for
breakfast. Eddie, you pan stay
if you like, or come in with
__ _ 55
me.
Eddie went with him, and
I watched them riding back
along the path of the rush
where the ground was like a
huge old churned-up stock-
yard.
I was glad afterwards I
didn’t go with them.
We were far. out on the
plain, a good mile from the
river, and that distance or
more south of our camp. We
let the cattle spread slowly as
they quietened-down. Most
were content to lie where they
were, but some, especially the
younger ones and cows with
calves, were soon grazing.
Shortly after sunrise the
early breakfasters came out,
and with Sam Martin and the
others I rode into camp, back
along the track of the rush.
Here and there, there was a
dead or badly injured beast,
but for such a rush losses had
been few.
Old Booda-booda was in
camp, just preparing to ride
out to the cattle with Joe.
From the homestead, 15 miles
away, he had heard the rush,
saddled the station night-
horse, and ridden out to arrive
at daybreak. He was cursing
still as we passed him.
I pulled my saddle off Dun-
lop and gave him a special
pat before I let him go. He
was caked with sweat, but
still looked comparatively
fresh. He rubbed his head
against my chest and yawned
before turning away to water,
as if this had been just another
night’s work.
Eddie was lying on his face
in the shade near the river
bank -and he seemed to be
crying. I started to walk to-
wards him ; but Horace called
me.
“Leave the kid alone for a bit,
Corky. He and Joe rode right
onto what was left of Harlo,
and the kid was sick. Booda-
booda’s taking him back. He’ll
get over it directly. I wouldn’t
go out when they go to bring
him in. Even Long Joe looked
a bit dickey.”
1 I didn’t go, and I kept out
of the way down by the water
until Harlingford was buried.
Joe Darrell told me afterwards
he must have gone on the
ihob’s horns when they hit
him. They found him a couple
of hundred yards from his
dead horse.
They buried him at the foot
of a big old gum-tree back a
bit from the river-bank and
fenced the grave with split
palings. Later his wife sent
up a small headstone, I was
told; but by then I had
enlisted. Eddie travelled to
Townsville with me, going
home for a spell.
In the Hindenburg Outposts
show in September, 1918, we
stumbled on the remains of a
41st Battalion sergeant who
had been run-over by one of
our own tanks in the thick
fog early in the morning. I
remembered Harlingford and
understood why Eddie was
sick. Part-inured to horrors by
then, I was sick myself.


A Letter Back Home-
“Having a Lovely Time ..."
Hollywood,
Saturday.
Dear Bob,
Haven’t collected any new industries
yet, but you cart tell the boys I’m battling
hard. This Hollywood sure gives you
ideas. Suggested to C. B. de Mille that
New South Wales would be just the place
for the setting of one of his extravaganza
films. He didn’t exactly promise, but I
think I’ve got him interested. What he
actually said was, “So those Ebasco guys
told me.” i
Met a real-estate man this morning.
Real smart bloke. He wants to invCst a
big sum in subdivisions near Sydney.
Says he’s heard that all the best residential
land is in the green belt, but he reckons
if we could let him have a few hundred
acres he’d build a model housing-suburb
on it. You might have a word with
Renshaw to see if there’s any worth-while
sections left.
I’ve met a lot of film-stars, Bob. I’d
say Marilyn Monroe and Jayne Mansfield
were the most outstanding. I really think
those two girls have got something, Bob.
Might suggest to Nugget Coombs getting
them out for the opening season of the
Opera House. I’m told they don’t sing
too well, but there’ll be plenty of time
for them to learn before the joint is ready
to open.
Been watching ’em shoot some films,
Bob. Great stuff. Westerns, mostly.
Met Hopalong Cassidy’s horse this
morning. Very intelligent animal.
Whinnied as if he knew me, but I think
he must have mistaken me for someone
else. Bill Boyd said that with tny western
marshal’s badge I looked the dead-ring
of Gary so perhaps that was
it. I suppose you heard about them
giving me the badge. Quite an honor,
I’m told, though, confidentially, I’d
rather have had a Davy Crockett hat.
They’re apparently out of season. Still,
the badge’ll look nice alongside my
Coronation medal.
* Met Lassie, too, and Francis the mule.
Patted ’em both and had my photo taken
with them. Am enclosing a copy.
That’s me with the ten-gallon hat on.
Talking of hats, I had a
promising chat in the Brown
Derby with a big business
tycoon who is interested in my
plan for equal pay for the
sexes. He runs' a string of
factories in Illinois with 70,000
men on the payroll and wants
to open-up in Australia in a
big way. He said my ideas
appealed to him and he
reckoned I was a man after his
own heart. I mention this,
Bob, so you won’t think I’m
just wasting my time in Holly-
wood. After all, a man’s got
to make contacts. Mind you,
“What a prize ...
it’s been very interesting meeting all these
famous stars —it sort of broadens the
mind —but what I mean to say is I’ve
been working, too.
Anyway, 1 asked this tycoon what he
manufactured and he said, “Everything,”
so that sounds pretty good, because that’s
about what we want. He hasn’t quite
made-up his mind yet, but I think there’s
a good chance he’ll decide on New South
Wales. And that’ll be one in the eye
for Tom Playford and Bolte.
This F. 8.1. screening you read about
is every bit as bad as the papers say,
Bob. D’you know, I got tricked into
going along to a joint called the Chinese
Theatre, and when I got there they tried
to trap me into leaving my footprints in
wet Cement. Just as well I was a wake-up
in time to save myself from putting my
foot in it. Breach of diplomatic proto-
col, I call it. I’ll have to speak to Howard
Beale about it when I get to Washington.
And what d’you know, Bob! That
old swine of a manufacturer I met at the
Brown Derby rang me up and called
me for everything. Said I’d misled him
with my equal-pay plan. I asked him
what he meant and he said, “They , tell
me you’re going to equalise the women
up to the men. I thought you were
going to equalise the men down to the
women.” Anyway, Bob, the upshot is
we’ve lost him.
Still, there’ll be others. The way I
look at it, Bob, is that America’s simply
lousy with business tycoons-and sooner
or later one df them will see the light.
Meantime. I’ll just keep plugging along.
A press-agent who, incidentally, has
promised to arrange for me to meet Joe
Palooka and L’il Abner, gave me "a
photo of our office in New York. 1
posted it to you yesterday. It’s a beaut,
building, Bob. How we managed to get
it at the price I don’t know. “Knockout”
Smith must have put in some pretty good
work over here. Don’t forget to show
the picture to Gus Kelly. It’ll make his
mouth water. What a prize for an art-
union !
An idea’s' just occurred to me, Bob.
We could really do something with an
office like that. I came over here to
persuade American industry to
come to Australia. Perhaps it
would serve the same purpose
if we reversed the process and
opened-up branches of Aus-
tralian industry in America.
That photo gave me the idea.
The building would make a
cracker jack New York branch-
office for our State lottery.
Just mention it to Tallentire.
There are tremendous possi-
bilities here. The lottery
industry here, like the racing
industry, is at a very primitive
stage of development. Come
to think of it, Bob, I might
even stay over
here for a while
myself if you and
the boys think
there’s anything
in, the lottery
idea. It’s a thing
that would call
for top - level
planning and
much hard work,
but I’d be pre-
pared to give it a
go for a year or
so in the interests
of the people of
New South
Wales. Let’s hear
your views.
Had a run out
to Boulder Dam
the other day.
Not greatly
impressed. It was
rather like our
Warragamba
only this one’s
finished. On the
way back we
stopped-over at
Las Vegas. Now,
there’s a place for
you. Poker-
machines!
Honestly, Bob,
you’ve no idea!
Some of our
club - treasurers
back in Sydney
...for an art-union!”
would just have their eyes popping out
of their heads if they could see tne turn-
over.
It set me thinking and I got two ideas.
I think you’ll agree that it’s out of the
question to allow poker-machines in
pubs. But what about licensing them
to operate outside pubs? That way
we’d increase our revenue, supply a
much-needed public service and provide
employment in the poker-machine manu-
facturing industry. And it couldn’t be
said that we were encouraging people to
go into pubs. Actually we’d be instru-
mental in getting them to come out.
My other idea is for a super jackpot-
tote. The investor buys his first tickets
at the dogs on Friday night, then runs
through the card at Randwick on
Saturday-arvo and finishes-up at the
Harold Park trots on Saturday night.
Think of the divvy, Bob! And think what
a boost it’d give those three industries!
Well, must finish now, Bob. Going
down into Death Valley tomorrow. Hope
to be able to pick-up a stuffed rattle-
snake for Clive Evatt.
Keep your end up,
Yours, JOE.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Sydney Racing
Before racing at Tattersall’s
meeting at Randwick trainer
Dick Roden appeared to hold
a strong hand on the rich
Brisbane Cup as he had
entered four horses—Mac-
dougal, Prince Dante, Baron
Boissier and Red Eagle. Mac-
dougal and Prince Dante are
last-start winners. Macdougal
will probably be chosen for
the two-miler, and judging by
the manner of his easy win
over 11 furlongs at Warwick
Farm he should be hard to
beat.
• • • •
Prince Dante has twice won
at a mile-and-a-quarter (Rose-
hill and Randwick), and each
time had something in reserve.
Four others were preferred to
him in betting on Tattersall’s
Centenary Cup, but when he
moved up to fourth position at
the home-turn and was going
well it was clear he would be
hard to beat. He took the lead
at the furlong-post and won
comfortably from outsider
Flash Gem and Theodric.
Favorite Teranyan failed to
run the journey out. He was
ridden perfectly by Fred Hood
and there could have been no
excuse for his defeat.
Taking a double for two top
races before the handicapper
issues his assessments is usually
chancy business, but book-
makers are ever ready to oblige
clients prepared to take a
chance on the weights. How-
ever, the general rule is that
the smart punter who analyses
the figures has a better chance
of selecting a winning double
than the one who bets in the
dark! There will be several
changes in betting on the
Queensland double Strad-
broke Handicap and Brisbane
Cup—before those races are
run next month.
Early “speckers” have settled
mainly for Gay Port, Yaha-
beebe, Gold Stakes, Diamond
Vista, Grenoble and New Spec
in the sprint, while best-fancied
for the Cup at the moment are
Book Link, Straight Dtaw and
Macdougal. All three stayers
are at top form, and the Cup
should be one of the best in
years. New Spec and Gay Port
are stablemates —they are in
L. O’Sullivan’s Rosebery stable
and they will take a lot of
beating. They have recently
galloped in their best style and
each has an excellent record.
• • • •
Before the horses went to
the starting-gates for the open-
ing event at Randwick, the
Juvenile Stakes for fillies, Jack
Mandel, owner of the top-
weight Rose of Persia; was of
opinion the filly had too much
weight (8.11). However, Rose
of Persia had better winning-
form than her nine opponents,
and she was backed from 7 to 4
to 11 to 8. The filly won in
easy fashion with jockey
A. Mulley sitting still on her.
Apprentice J. Hampton had
the mount on the runner-up
Wandella, who led for home
but moved away from the rails,
and naturally Mulley went
through the opening on the
favorite. His experience helped
the filly, who has won three
races from her five starts and
is one of the best of her sex
racing in Sydney.
• • • •
Mrs. Frank Selkrig, wife of
the Randwick trainer, has had
a successful run with Flames
since the filly was leased to
her. The lease is to expire on
June 1 but she is hopeful of
renewing it. Son Ray has
ridden Flames in most of her
races, and has had seven wins
on her, latest at Randwick on
Saturday last —the Three-and-
four-year-old Handicap. Three
days earlier Flames had been
defeated half-a-hcad by Flag
Top at Canterbury, but at
Randwick she won by a head
from Goldenway, with New
Amber half-a-head away third.
Golden way’s second with 9.3
against the 8.10 carried by
Flames stamps her as a first-
class filly, as she also conceded
the winner a year in age.
Charente is one of the best
Welter-type gallopers in
Sydney. He has won about 15
races, most of them Welters.
Apprentice G. Howard
handles Charente well, and has
won four races on the speedy
six-year-old. In Tattersall’s
Welter at Randwick, Charente
was quickly into stride, as
usual, and was not troubled
until the final 100yds. or so,
when Keep Alert flashed up
on the outside and ran the
pacemaker to a short half-
head.
• • • •
Keep Alert ran his best race
for about four months. He
won nine country races before
coming to Sydney late last
year. In December he won a
Graduation Stakes at Canter-
bury. Charente has won on
the four Sydney tracks as well
as in Brisbane and in Adelaide.
If taken to Brisbane for the
mid-winter carnivals he could
make it interesting in races to
one mile, though the opposition
in the Stradbroke could be too
tough.
Aged horses usually find it
difficult to win, no matter the
company. Trainer Sid
Lawrence, who won a number
of races with My Hali before
that sprinter went to Adelaide,
has the aged Brueghel (It.)
gelding Antwerp fit to win any
Novice-type race, but he just
can’t win. He has filled minor
places at his last three outings,
and in the Randwick Novice
had every chance but faded to
third place behind the much-
younger Dusky Dawn and
Sonic. Antwerp is a smart
trackworker, and maybe the
stable’s luck will soon change.
Antwerp’s jockey, W. Camer,
was handed a month’s suspen-
sion by the stewards for care-
less riding following an inquiry
into interference suffered by
the favorite, Tres Chaud, near
the half-mile.
• • • •
Tattersall’s Flying Handicap
proved a soft snap for Reign,
who defeated his co-favorite
Cornelius, with Nydello third.
Both the winner and the third-
placegetter are trained by
Harry Plant, but to date Reign
has the better record. He had
finished second, also at Rand-
wick on April 12, to Heroic
Victory and has been a con-
sistent sprinter at his few
appearances this season.
Irish Folly continued the
successful run this season by
two-year-olds from T. J.
Smith’s stables by easily
winning Tattersail’s event for
that age-group (colts and geld-
ings). The colt had also scored
at his two prior starts at Rose-
hill and Canterbury. He was
untroubled with 8.12 and ran
the mile in 1.39.3. As his
opponents were mediocre he
didn’t need pushing out over
the final stages. Irish Folly
could develop into a top stayer
now that he has shown ability
to one mile, but that will be
for later on ; Smith intends to
spell the youngster for several
months to give him time, as
he’s growing fast. He should be
all the better for the break from
racing.
Tattersall’s Club (Sydney) is
celebrating its centenary. Its
chief interest was the Cup
race-meeting at Randwick,
which would have attracted a
bigger attendance than 24,500
had the weather been more
favorable. Light showers on
Saturday morning reduced
numbers. Results didn’t favor
takers of the odds, but the
racing was keen and tight
finishes took place in two of
the seven races particularly
the Welter, won by Charente.
In two years’ time Randwick
will celebrate its centenary,
when the A.J.C. is bound to put
on a programme worthy of
such a famous occasion. Aus-
tralian turf history is centred
round Randwick and its early
fixtures. The A.J.C. was formed
in 1842 and first meetings were


run at Homebush. In 1860 the
club transferred to Randwick.
In the first season there the
A.J.C. distributed a little more
than £2250 in stakes. Last year
the hand-out was £317,394,
Sydney racegoers will be
finding several new names
among racehorses, so far as
they are concerned, at im-
mediate fixtures, but the horses
are well known in their own
(country) areas. Country
owners are confident of some
success, with many moderate
performers on city tracks at the
moment, and the best city
horses are away spelling. Other
top gallopers are getting ready
for the Brisbane mid-winter
carnivals.
* * *
—and Melbourne
The Melbourne R.C., which
conducted the meeting at
Moonee Valley last Saturday,
received such a heavy accept-
ance for the six-furlongs-/m-
--20yds. La Trobe Stakes, a race
for two-year-olds, that the
event had to be staged in three
divisions. This three-way split
worked-out well for punters.
The form horses were drawn
in separate divisions and each
heat was won by the short-
priced favorite. An odd
feature of the race was this:
each of the winners recorded
his second success at the
Valley, and none of them has
won at any other course.
The N.Z.-bred filly Tiffinar
won the first division. Trainer
Bob Hoysted gave 750gns. for
the filly (by the French horse
Targui from Soraya) on behalf
of his patron, Werribee
butcher A. S. Nutter. Winner
of two races, Tiffinar has
vindicated Hoysted’s judgment.
Nevertheless, she has had her
share of luck. The first race
she won was against very
weak opposition, and again last
Saturday she drew the easiest
of the three heats. Ron
Hutchinson got that extra bit
out of Tiffinar just when the
speedy Lawonga seemed to
have the race won.
After Webster won a race at
the Valley a couple of weeks
ago, it was here said that track-
watchers at Mentone, where
the gelding is trained, have a
very high opinion of his
possibilities. It looks as if
that confidence is well-
founded. In winning the
second heat Webster galloped
well within himself, but won
pulling up by three lengths.
Webster is from the St.
Magnus mare Melorna by
Blue Booklet (imp.). It is
unfortunate that Melorna was
not entered in the Stud Book.
Victoria’s racing Premier,
H. E. Bolte, saw his filly,
Meadow Bird, notch the easiest
win of the day, when she can-
tered home five lengths clear in
the third La Trobe. The
Meadow Mist filly was bred
by Sir Chester Manifold at his
Camperdown property. It was
ironical for Sir Chester that
his own representative in the
race, another Meadow Mist
filly, Misty Elm, finished last.
The winner has all the pace
of her breed, and sticks on
better than some of the
Meadow Mist stock. She
should win more races for the
Premier. Racing’s “top brass”
was well represented in this
race. Second place-getter,
Nelson, is owned by V.R.C.
vice - chairman E. A.
Underwood.
The jumping events at
Moonee Valley gave no lead to
the Nationals. Carbon Report,
who won the Fiscom Hurdle, is
a ragged jumper, and he would
find the stiffer obstacles at
Flemington much harder than
the hurdles at the Valley. In
any case, owner J. G. Brown
has no illusions about his
horse, and will plan Carbon
Report’s programme to avoid
the top-class hurdlers
Former smart Adelaide filly
Cherete is now trained by
veteran Melbourne mentor
Paddy Quinlan. There are not
many trainers in the business
better able to judge a horse’s
condition than Quinlan, and,
although Cherete was racing
first-up after a spell, he declared
that she was ready to win
when he saddled her up for
the Lonsdale Stakes at the
Valley. Cherete turned into the
short straight set for an easy
win, but started to shorten
stride and just hung on to win
the sprint by inches. Quinlan
may take Cherete north for the
Stradbroke. The filly has a
first-class record, with a victory
over Tulloch to her credit. The
company at Brisbane would not
be too rich for her.
It was rather surprising to
see the combination of peerless
jumping rider Brian Smith and
Moonee Valley specialist Van
Perri go out at the liberal price
of 5 to 1 in the Gippsland
Steeplechaso. Possibly many
racegoers believed that the nine-
year-old Perricoota gelding
could not come up for yet
another season. But Van Perri,
burdened with 11.13, showed
he is far from a “has-been”
by winning the race with
lengths to spare.
The old gelding has a
wonderful record at the Valley.
He has won no fewer than 11
jumping-races around the
circular track. In all, he has
won 16 times from 72 starts,
and earned £13,275 stake-
money. The only Victorian
jumping horses to beat that
total are The Feline, Moss-
trooper and Teedum. There
is no question of Van Perri
contesting the National—two
miles is his limit.
• • • •
Melbourne racegoers who
knew Mandingos as a galloper
who could not win on country
tracks found it hard to under-
stand the improvement the
gelding showed when he was
taken to Sydney, In good
company, he won seven races
straight on Sydney tracks.
Brought back to Melbourne,
he again lost form. Before his
run at the Valley last Satur-
day he had been unplaced
six times in a row. In the
Monash Welter at the Valley,
however, he showed a glimpse
of his best form to score in
one of the tightest finishes ever
seen at that track. The photo
showed Mandingos not more
than an inch in front of Chief
Wongo and Pistol Shot, who
dead-heated for second.
Melbourne racing-clubs do
not lack faith in the future
of the sport. Mention has been
made on this page of the
development by the Melbourne
Racing Club of its property
at Sandown —a scheme which
aims to make that club’s new
course the most modern in
Australia; and of the three-
tier grandstand being erected
by the Moonee Valley R.C.
The senior club, the V.R.C.,
is also rebuilding. Plans have
been completed for a new
stand to be built just below
the hill, to provide seating
accommodation for some-
-7000, plus additional totalisa-
tor-facilities. The new building
has been budgeted to cost
£361,000.
Melbourne trainers, often
enough in recent years des-
perate to get a good rider,
were dismayed when Riverina
apprentice Roy Higgins refused
to settle in the city. On his
recent trip to Melbourne the
lad impressed with a skill
beyond his years. He’s been
rated the best apprentice seen
on Melbourne tracks since
Harold Skidmore won the
jockeys’ premiership while
still indentured. Higgins will
visit Melbourne regularly to
ride, but will not settle in the
city.
“Sawtell”: Sons of the
Devonshire mare Miss Devlin
are proving a success at the
stud. Besides Don Pedro, sire
of champion -steeplechaser
Pedro’s Pride, Miss Devlin is
the dam of Bootle (a good
stayer and sire of a number of
winners in Victorian country
districts) and of English
Channel, who, with limited
opportunities in W.A., is beget-
ting a lot of smart performers.
* * *
T rafting
It was Ladies’ Night at
Harold Park on Friday last,
and appropriately Perfect Lass
(9 to 1), the only filly in the
race, won the final of the
£4OOO N.S.W. Pacers’ Derby.
New Zealander Tobacco Road
(7-to-4 favorite) was a neck
further back, while Illawarra
Ayr (8 to 1) was another two
lengths back, third. The race
was run in 3min. lOysec.,
2fsec. outside the record set-up
by New Zealander Dignus last
year.
It was a most exciting race
till shortly after the “bell,”
when several horses were
involved in a scrimmage,
caused by Adioo King shifting
ground too quickly. Illawarra
Ayr, Marinetto, Wondrous and
Gorrelate were involved. G.
Graham, driver of Adioo King,
was severely reprimanded by
the stewards.
J. C. Caffyn, driver of
Gorrelate, said that the 50yds.
he lost through having to pull
his horse nearly to a’standstill
cost him the race. Gorrelate
came from a distant second-
last in the last two furlongs
and made an amazing run to
finish a close fourth.
Perfect Lass dashed round
the field with two laps to go
and was near the lead at the
“bell.” She missed the inter-
ference and dashed away to a
clear lead of three lengths.
Tobacco Road, who had been
pocketed in fourth place for
most of the journey, made a
valiant effort in the final two
furlongs.
* • • •
The Harold Park Handicap
(15| furlongs) was robbed of
interest by the absence of such
good pacers as Sibelia, Sky


High and Diabolo Don. Deter-
mined Boy, 6-to-4-on favorite,
broke badly two laps from
home and lost all chance.
The race was won by High-
land Jan (sixes) from Robert
Sheen (sixes) and Defiance
(16 to 1).
+ +
Sundry Sports
The V.F.L. “four” remains
in the same order after Satur-
day : Melbourne, Fitzroy, Col-
lingwood and Richmond.
Melbourne, one win ahead,
had to come with a last-
quarter burst to beat Essendon,
after trailing for three quarters,
15.12 - 12.15; Collingwood
laced Carlton 16.10-3.15 ; Fitz-
roy, putting on 8.5 to 0.1 in
the first quarter, trounced
Footscray 16.14-7.12; and
Richmond, in one of the two
“away” wins of the day, beat
a Geelong which tried hard,
14.13-11.15. Hawthorn proved
it is still right in the running
by thrashing North 17.15-9.4,
and the first round of the 1958
“Lakeside premiership,” at
South Melbourne, was won by
a point by St. Kilda, 13.15-14.8.
St. Kilda, it may be noted,
had earlier lost by one point
to Hawthorn, while South had
a one-point win last match over
Geelong.
“Corio”: Besides the pairs of
brothers playing with the same
V.F.L. clubs (B. 9/4/’SB), there
are two pairs of brothers play-
ing with different teams. They
are Harry Sullivan (Colling-
wood) and John Sullivan
(Carlton) and Brian Gleeson
(St. Kilda), 1957 Brownlow
Medal winner, and Terry
Gleeson (Melbourne).
“Atala”: For the first time in
its 50-odd years’ existence
West Adelaide has a home-
ground—Richmond Oval. West
played its opening-series match
this year (against West Torrens)
at Richmond, and won an
exciting game by 11 points.
West full-forward Peter Phipps
had the honor of kicking the
first goal in a League game on
the oval —a beautiful punt
from 30yds. out. West
apparently is so pleased at
having its own oval it went out
in the following game, at
Alberton, and convincingly
defeated Port Adelaide, 8.7-5.5!
* » *
As it had done the previous
weekend, Blackpool gave
Australia and N.S.W. two more
Soccer lessons. At Sydney
Sportsground on Saturday
Blackpool won 8-2, after Aus-
tralia had led 2-0 for a little
while, Stanley Matthews
kicked a goal—a rare thing for
“Mr. Soccer” to do. On Sun-
day, against N.S.W. at Wol-
longong, it was 7-2 at the end.
* * *
St. George remains alone on
top of Sydney Rugby Union’s
table after having to battle
hard to defeat North 12-6. Big
winger Eddie Stapleton fol-
lowed his five tries against
Eastwood the previous week
by scoring all four St. George
tries. Not one was kicked of
the 11 attempts at goal in the
match—against ’Wood, too,
the Saints’ kicker had missed
10 attempts. In the other
games Gordon was too good
for Eastwood, 26-13; Rand-
wick (with nine tries to three)
outscored Parramatta 33-22;
University surprised Manly
20-12, and East ran away in
the last few minutes from
Drummoyne, 20-8.
“Keima”: Eastern Suburbs
(Brisbane) has high hopes of
a new 20-year-old forward
named Steele Davis. Yes, he’s
related to “Steele Rudd”
Arthur Hoey Davis was his
grandfather. Though not
particularly a footballer,
“Steele Rudd” was, T believe,
quite a fine athlete and rower
in his day.
* * *
Rugby League in N.S.W. at
the weekend was the annual
games, instituted in recent
years, between the Sydney clubs
and various N.S.W. country
districts. What with the neces-
sarily greater combination of
the city teams and their, as a
rule, greater individual talent,
the games are usually “walk-
overs” for the slicker city-
slickers. Such was mainly the
case at the weekend.
t » • •
In the only game in Sydney
on Saturday, at the S.C.G.,
Newcastle, weakened by some
last-minute withdrawals from
injury, early led St. George
8-0, was level 10-all at half-
time, but thereafter was
swamped: 41-14 at the bell.
Two of the Saints to stand-
out were young fullback
Graham, who scored three
tries, and, in his debut, left-
winger Messiter. For New-
castle, Cessnock half Hems-
worth impressed, and in the
forwards, as always, veteran
skipper F,red Brown was never
off the ball.
* * *
After trailing to the begin-
ning of the fifth round, Aus-
tralian golfer Peter Thomson
reeled-off a sensational 67 to
win lop money in the Dunlop
£2690 golf-tournament played
on the tough Wentworth
course (London). In the last
six holes Thomson won the
“kitty’' with three threes and
three fours. South African
Harold Henning, who led to
the last nine holes, just failed
to hold Thomson off. Cards
read: Thomson—7o, 69 71,71,
67 (348); Henning—7o,’ 65, 72,
75, 69 (351); Locke —72, 68,
71, 71, 70 (352).
* * *
The Pakistan national
hockey-team played two games
in Sydney at the weekend.
On Friday it gave .Sydney
University a 16-1 lesson, and
on Sunday defeated Sydney
3-1. Pakistan was in Sydney
on its way from N.Z. to the
Asian Games in Tokio. In
N.Z. it played 22 games, and
scored 145 goals to 8 scored
against; it won two of the
three Tests, 3-0 and 5-0, with
the second Test a 2-all draw.
Pakistan was runner-up to
India at the 1956 Olympic
Games; 13 of this team were
at the '56 Games. Captain of
the side, inside-right Abdul
Hamid, a captain in the
Pakistan Army, has represented
his country at the last three
Olympic Games.
* * *
In Sydney on Monday, April
21, Max Murphy, of
Wollongong, defeated Frankie
Bennett over 15 rounds, to win
the Australian featherweight
title vacated by Bobby Sinn.
Murphy, 26, weighed Bst.
1311 b.; Bennett, 21, an extra
lib. It was an even fight, with
Murphy winning over the last
rounds; in the 10th he got the
only knockdown of the bout.
On Dec. 17 last year, in Bris-
bane, Bennett had thrashed an
overweight Sinn, and it was
here stated then that he should
be given a shot at Sinn’s title.
Well, of course he has been —
but Murphy, who on Jan. 28
had easily outpointed Bennett
over 12 rounds, has now
proved that he has the more
right to the title. However,
last Friday night at West Mel-
bourne, Murphy was easily
outpointed by Italian light-
weight Letterio Petilli.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman) F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M DOUGLaSS. MALCOLM O. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in a/1 Country Centres
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Australians in
Palestine (1919), published by
Australian Military Forces. —6702.
Words of poem “Flying Kate,”
author uncertain. —6699.
To buy the following numbers
of “The Thinkers’ Library”: 11,
16, 20, 43, 50, 73, 75, 82, 137 and
138.—6700.
To buy 12 copies of the Oxford
Book of Carols, any condition.—’
6701.
Information Sought
What are the Federal Govern-
ment’s banking proposals which
have been twice rejected by the
Senate ? -
Here is a condensed summary
of the proposed changes, as given
by Sir Arthur Fadden in the House
on September 4, last year, and
outlined in “Australia in Facts and
Figures,” No. 55:
An entirely separate institution
to be known as the Reserve Bamc
of Australia is to carry-out the
central-banking functions now dis-
charged by the Commonwealth
Bank. The existing Note Issue
Department and Rural Credits
Department will form part of the
Reserve Bank, which will be con-
trolled by a board constituted on
the same lines as the existing
Commonwealth Bank Board.
The principal change in the'
powers conferred by the proposed
Banking Act was to be the replace-
ment of the existing Special
Accounts provisions by a system
of reserve deposits.
The remainder of the existing
Commonwealth Bank group is to
be reorganised into the Common-
wealth Banking Corporation, com-
prising the Commonwealth Trad-
ing Bank, Commonwealth Savings
Bank and Commonwealth Develop-
ment Bank, each to have a separate
legal identity, separate assets,
liabilities and accounts, and a
separate general-manager.
* * # •
Nantes, tonnages, dates and posi-
tions at which ships of the
Orient Line were sunk during
War 11 ?
The following losses were sus-
tained by the Orient Line fleet
during War 11:
Orama (20,000 tons), sunk in the
North Sea by gunfire of heavy
German surface-ship, May, 1940;
Orford (20,000 tons), bombed, set
on fire and beached at Marseilles,
May, 1940; Oronsay, No. 1 (20,000
tons), sunk off the West African
coast by four torpedoes, October,
1942; Orcades, No. 2 (23,450 tons),
torpedoed (first by three torpedoes
in quick succession and later by
further torpedoes) in the South
Atlantic, one day out from South
Africa, homeward - bound, on
October 10, 1942.
* * * *
Results of all Davis Cup
challenge-rounds from 1946 to
1957 ?
In 1946 U.S.A. defeated Aus-
tralia 5-0, the next year winning
4-1, In 1948 U.S.A. again threw
the Aussies, 5-0, and gave them a
4-1 trouncing in 1949. Australia
in 1950 had a 4-1 win over U.S.A.,
following it up with, in ’5l, a 3-2
victory over the Yanks. Then in
1952 Australia beat U.S.A., 4-1, and
in 1953 took the Cup with a 3-2 win.
Back came the Yanks, in 1954, to
beat Australia, 3-2; next year Aus-
tralia thrashed them, 5-0. In 1956
Australia beat U.S.A., 5-0, and
in 1957 it was 3-2 Australia’s
way.
* * * *
How do I go about tracing my
ancestors? What fee is charged
for this work ?
(From the Society of Australian
"No, it's not my car—but bless you for asking!"
Genealogists): One of the princi-
pal activities of our society is to
assist persons to trace facts about
their ancestors. Our library is the
largest and best equipped and
indexed record of heraldry and
genealogy in Australia. Research-
inquiries are divided into two
categories: (a) Minor research and
advice thereon to members, and
(b) Major research for members,
and all classes of research for non-
members in the country, inter-
state and overseas. All major
research for members and all
classes of research for non-members
will be charged for as follows:
inquiry-fee, 55.; minimum research-
fee, £6 6s.
When an inquirer sends his
research-fee of £6 65., the relevant
records will be searched for ances-
tral information, and such infor-
mation (if any) will be supplied.
If the records yield information
relating to ancestry, an extended
research necessitating additional
fees can be made if desired, and
a full report issued. The fee for
such full report would not nor-
mally exceed £lO 10s. for each
ancestral line traced.
Research inquiries are placed
directly in the hands of a quali-
fied genealogist, preferably a
member of the society, who will
carry-out the work and be paid
by the society for such services.
When making application for
research, inquirers should, if pos-
sible, supply the following infor-
mation: (1) Name of person whose
ancestry you wish to trace, giving
Christian-names and surname;
(2) date of birth; (3) place where
born; (4) if married, name of
spouse; (5) date and place of
marriage; (6) date of death; (7)
place of death; (8) was the person
the owner or tenant of any land or
house-property? ; (9) w'hat was his
profession or trade?; and (10) if
not born in Australia, date of
arrival in Australia. (11) Any
additional information available
which might aid in the search.
You can get any further points
by writing to the society at 91a
Phillip Street, Sydney.
* * * •
Some details of the Australian
Humanities Research Council ?
What are its aims ?
From Professor A. G. Mitchell,
University of Sydney: The Aus-
tralian Humanities Research Coun-
cil, founded in 1956, consists at
.present of 35 members. Member-
ship is by election; members must
be scholars of standing in a
humanities subject who have con-
tributed by publication to the know-
ledge of their particular held.
Among the aims of the council
are: (1) To promote and dis-
seminate knowledge of the humani-
ties, and to declare their value to
the community; (2) to foster
scholarship and the publication of
studies in the humanities; (3) to
establish and maintain relations
with international bodies in the
humanities, and (4) to correlate
and assist in correlating the efforts
of other bodies in the humanities.
The council has almost com-
pleted a survey of the humanities
in Australia, and has begun the
publication of a series of mono-
graphs.
Brief Answers
J.T.C.: Try one of the finer
kitchen abradants; apply with a
woollen cloth moistened in olive-
oil, or using fine steel-wool. If the
stains have penetrated the texture
of the vulcanite, they can’t be
removed: new pipe-stems seem to
be indicated L.C.: Jack Dun-
leavy writes: 1 have Mick King's
record, from his first fight, in Ring
Bottles of Centuries, published by
Tom Andrews, of Milwaukee. King
was born in Sydney in 1893 ; started
boxing in 1912, fighting until 1920.
He left Sydney in 1917 and boxed
all over the U.S.A. Died in Aus-
tralia in 1923. He held the middle-
weight title before Darcy... .P.M.:
(1) If you persist, you would
appear to be liable for prosecution.
(2) See a solicitor K.C.: (1)
An exterior resin-emulsion water-
paint would be best for the job.
(2) Remove any heavy deposits of
rust and rub-down well; then treat
the iron with a rust-neutraliser.
One coat of roofing-paint should
then be enough T.T.: Mildura
was founded in 1887 by the Chatfey
brothers, George and William Ben-
jamin, who hailed from Canada.
“Mildura” is an aboriginal word
meaning “red rock”... .F.G.: The
American Rugby League team, the
“All Stars,” led by Mike Dimitro,


2.
mm
mm
An exciting range
of SIX
attractive colours
for Bathroom and Kitchen Wails
Gay, colourful Wunderlich , "Duradec" is
inade in six modern decorative colours—
Pink, Grey, Green, Buff, Blue and Black-
flecked with white. "Duradec" is wash-
able, scrubbable, economical and easy to
fix available in waste-saving sheets,
6' x 3', 6' x 4', 7' x 3' and T x 4'.
Free: Write to W underlich Limited, Dept.
"D," Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney, for coloured
folder and sample.
Decorated Wall Sheets
of Asbestos-Cement
Readily available from local distributors
62DD1
"I just cant forget her."
came to Australia in 1953. The
tour was a fiasco, since most of
the team were top-line gridiron
players but had never played
Rugby. In their games here Aus-
tralia saw cricket-scores run-up by
both sides (N.S.W. beat the All
Stars 62-41 on Coronation Day),
with, among other goings-on, Aus-
tralian champions deliberately
letting opponents go through....
D.C.: Faience is fine, glazed,
brightly-colored earthenware or
porcelain—name derives from the
Italian town of Faenza, centre of a
faience industry T.D.; (1) The
first translation of the Arabian
Nights into a European tongue (in
this case, French) was by a French
scholar, Antoine Galland, in the
early 18th century. (2) An
unfinished attempt to translate the
Nights into English was made by
Henry Torrens in 1838; E. W. Lane
published an abridged translation
in 1839-41, and the first complete
translation into English was made
by John Payne in 1882-84. The
most famous translator is Sir
Richard Burton, who printed his
version in 1885-86. An edition
selected by P. H. Newby (based
on Burton’s translation), first pub-
lished in 1950, has run through
half - a - dozen impressions....
K.C.: There’s only been one
edition of “Handy Hints for the
Farm,” which you say you already
have M.8.H.: Unless the mem-
bers of your club are prepared to
treat the files of their local news-
paper as if they were the Dead
Sea Scrolls, there’s not much chance
of preserving them at all. Old news-
papers need careful handling and
expert care to keep them readable,
but issues nearly fifty years old
which have been submerged in
floods had best be salted away in
some really safe place if they are
to continue existing other than as
powder. Try the Oxley Library, in
Brisbane, or the Mitchell Library,
in Sydney: a letter to the directors
of these institutions should produce
first-class, first-hand advice....
J.D.T.: 7 Certainly Sydney’s pro-
posed opera-house will incorporate
scientific acoustic planning; but
whether the acoustic layout will be
like that of London’s Festival Hall
remains to be seen. Since acoustics
is an exact science, various experts
in the field will be consulted and
their advice acted on X.X.: It
is not possible to classify items
mentioned without first seeing the
postage-stamps. Old Australian
State-issues appeared in various
colors, perforations, watermarks
and papers, and such details must
first be checked before a correct
classification can be given. Suggest
you get in tou.ch with Mr. A. E.
Mills, Philatelic Officer, Clarence
Street Post-office, Sydney... .J.L.:
The Federation of British Indus-
tries is represented in Australia by
the Australian Association of
British Manufacturers, which has
offices in Melbourne, at 84 William
Street; Sydney, 4 Bridge Street;
Brisbane, 400 Queen Street;
Adelaide, 44 Grenfell Street, and
in Perth at 97 St. George's Terrace.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary,
R.R.: Don’t care much for poems
about coughing R.W.: Quite a
nice sun, but thin... .J.S.: What
on earth’s a “mind-allergic knave”?
:.,..M.I.C.;_ Describe the things
you know J. 8.: Very slight.
. ...M.5.8.: Never write a poem
about Australia... .Anon: Not
quite; but you do seem to have
had a nice time in Edinburgh....
K.J.: It blew-up.... W.F.W.:
Parodies of C. J. Dennis, however
brilliant, are always strangely pain-
ful. It must be the double falsity
in the imitation of an artificial
vocabulary... .J.M.: “Does the
fact that this poem was in the
‘Bideford Gazette’ in 1919 dis-
qualify it?” Ye5....H.8.: Leave
it to “Banjo" Paterson... .L.A.T.:
“The Hill of Sleep" came fairly
close... .K.C.: That “I want to
leave the town” theme has been
done so often... .G.R.: Honorably
discharged.. . .R.W.T.: Even door-
to-door salesmen hardly deserve that
poem.... J.D.: Amusing—in spots.
....Casual: It is a little confusing,
but is possibly the only poem ever
written on Malcolm Muggeridge:
One day an old bored grey
Haired Granny on Broadway
Decided, the Maude way, -
To bring out a Briton.
“An angry one shall come,
He mustn't be welcome.”
And so it was Malcolm
Muggeridge she hit oh.
... .W.H.R.: A sort of versical
Cook’s tour... .R.D.: Fair for your
age. Write about things you've seen
and use your own natural vocabu-
lary. .. .G. 1.: Synthetic... .P.G.H.:
You’re not so bad on the war. but
you’d better retire from space-
travel... .E.D.: “Drought” out
H.L.A.: Restrain your Muse. She’s
all over the place... .J.P.S.: Put
it to bed....G.P.: You seem to
be trying so hard to say something
that perhaps one day you wi11....
Leah: Not heah ....1.D.: If the
verse were only as beautiful as the
paper.... A.S.: But wasn’t Maupas-
sant French? ... .L.H.W.: “The
miracle* of those Southern Busts,”
though obviously you mean the
wind, is somewhat ambiguous....
A.C.: All right. Send us the pirates.
. ...M.McK.: Come in and sing:
. ...V.J.S.: Fair enough, but it
has a flavor of long-ag0....
M.M.M.: No. we won't violate
your copyright... .E.G.M.: Your
poem addressed to the Religious
Editor has been read—and damned.
....J.L.: She talked you a bit oil
the track, t00....8,H.: Doesn’t
say anything new about “This
Wonderful Age” ... .E.C.G.: Afraid
the only thing we can do with your
“Exiles” is send them home again.
OODNADATTA DESTINY
My dromedary novy kneels down
In spinifex beside a dune.
And Oodnadatta dreams unfold
With Desirie beneath the moon.
She has my dome in dizzy whirl,
My own, my Oodnadatta girl.
As fre-h as dewdrops at the dawn.
She oozes oomph, and dazzles me —-
Diffuses joy, adonis the scene,
My dimpled, darling desert-pea.
With oodles of that inland charm,
She’s my oasis and alarm.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ISRAEL'S TENTH BIRTHDAY
TTYPICAL of British press
salutations to Israel on its
tenth anniversary, London
“Daily Express” comments
that “the people of Israel have
good reason to rejoice”:
“In these 10 years the Jews
have re - established their
ancient right to nationhood.
They have carved a home for
themselves out of the hard,
unyielding desert soil. They
have sustained themselves amid
hostility and violence. The
Jews are making a vision come
true. It is a great achievement.”
There is, however, in the
“Yorkshire Post’s” view, a
dark fringe to this shining
picture of development and
hard work”:
“It is no fault of Israel that
10 years have not been long
enough for her to find a way
of living peacefully and at ease
with her Arab neighbors. As
soon as the State was born it
was attacked from all sides by
Egypt, Jordan, Syria, Lebanon
and Irak. The Israelis fought
bravely, against fearful odds, as
they can be relied on to do,
and they were eventually left in
command of rather more
territory than the 1947 partition
plan had allotted them.
“But the deep-rooted Arab
hostility for Israel, grounded
on such considerations as the
fear of Israeli expansion,
bitterness over the refugee
problem and the feeling that
she is the offspring of Western
machination, remains a con-
stant source of tension in the
Middle East.”
An explosive aspect of that
tension, already discussed by
the Alsop brothers in New
York “Herald Tribune,” is
further examined in a “Man-
chester Guardian” editorial
comment on the possibility of
Russian intervention in the
lsraeli-Arab dispute and con-
sequent embarrassment to
Britain and the U.S.:
“In its second decade Israel
may have to face even greater
perils than in the first. The
unification of the Arabs is not
necessarily one of these. But
10 years ago the United States
and the Soviet Union were able
to vote on the same side about
Israel; now Palestine is one of
the three or four areas where
the cold war is most likely to
become hot.
“For years now the Com-
munist countries have been
arming the Arabs (as, for that
matter, have Western Powers);
for months both Israelis and
Arabs have been convinced that
the Soviet leaders, when it suits
them, will back the Arabs in a
demand for a Palestine “settle-
ment” based on the frontiers
proposed in 1947. British
Ministers also hint vaguely
about these frontiers. It is
time that the West, at least,
Emmwood, in London “Daily Mail .”
acknowledged that they are no
longer either desirable or
possible, if indeed they ever
were.
“It would be more profitable
for Britain and the United
States to challenge the Soviet
Union on its lure of disengage-
ment in the Middle East, and if
possible to challenge back with
a well-thought-out plan of their
own, beginning with a limita-
tion of arms deliveries and a
guarantee of frontiers.
“The Arab countries, in
their present upheaval, are not
in a state to make any overt
step towards conciliation in the
area. This may be unfair on
Israel, but it is a simple fact
Israelis are pardonably weary
of being exhorted by outsiders
to make concessions, and such
offers as they have made- —to
take back 100,000' refugees, to
pay some compensation—have
not been taken-up. There is
no indication that any fresh
approach at present would
meet any warmer response.
“But the moral initiative must
remain with the Israelis, because
they are faced with the in-
escapable truth that their
Jewish State is on land that was
the home of Arabs. The world
owes a debt to the Jews that
it can never repay, but the
Israelis also owe a debt to the
Arabs. It will one day be
acknowledged, and Israel’s
friends are none-the-less warm
in their congratulations for
pointing it out.”
Ralph Izzard, in a thoughtful
article in the London “Daily
Ma i 1,” distinguishes the
dangers inherent in the present
situation as “local” and
“general.”
First among the “local”
dangers, he considers, is the
propaganda-war which has
broken-out between the Irak-
Jordan Arab Federation and
Nasser’s United Arab Republic
—Jordan thinks that Nasser
“has developed cold feet about
Israel” and jeers at him nightly
from her Jerusalem radio.
Other “local” dangers envisaged
by Ralph Izzard are:
“That the Arabs should be
encouraged to believe that no
one will come to Israel’s aid if
she is attacked ;
“That the Arabs should be
led to think that Russia will
permit ‘volunteers’ to fight with
the Arab forces ;
“That the Arabs should
believe Israel is not in a
position to deal a decisive blow
before Russian aid can take
effect.”
As regards the “general”
danger,- Izzard thinks that the
Israelis regard Russia as an
unfriendly power, but “they
don’t think Khrushchev con-
siders them of sufficient im-
portance to risk a world war
by being directly aggressive, or
even that he would risk war by
deliberately encouraging the
Arabs to be aggressive.”
He [lzzard] considers that
there is a growing belief in
Israel that Khrushchev is look-
ing beyond the Middle East
towards the mastery of Africa
and that “Syria, Egypt, Yemen
may be merely stepping-stones
in this pursuit. Obviously great
sections of the African con-
tinent are susceptible to the
kind of nationalist, anti-
imperialist, anti - colonialist
propaganda which both Nasser
and Khrushchev purvey.”
“It could be,” Izzard con-
eludes, “as the years pass these
sections will slip from our grasp
and the Western European
nations will find themselves
completely outflanked in the
south. We may not be as alive
to this danger as we should be.”
Shipbuilding Orders
The annual report of Lloyd’s
Register of Shipping emphasises
the complexity of the problems
facing the shipbuilding-industry
—shipowners are not only
reluctant to place new orders,
owing to the fall in freight-
rates, but have also been obliged
to cancel orders already
placed.
Noting that the volume of
new work received by British
shipyards in the first three
months of this year is the
lowest quarterly total since the
war, “Yorkshire Post” com-
ments that “while the amount
of work in the order-books is
still sufficient to keep the British
industry busy at the present
rate of output for over four


Ht/G
Fuiuf*c
Some frank and objective books on the Pacific
war have been coming out of Japan. One. of my
recent reading, is an appraisal by two Japanese
naval officers of the Battle of Midway Island in
June, 1942: “the battle that doomed Japan.”
In such a book, documented as it is, we often
get revealing facts. And one which interested me—
because it shows how small the world’s largest
Ocean has become—was that the Japanese admiral
who led the raid on Pearl Harbour also led the
carrier-borne attack on Darwin in February. 1942,
and was prominent again in the Battle of Midway.
At Midway the Japanese Navy was defeated
for the first time with crippling loss. The battle
was fought a month after the Battle of the Coral
Sea —and both engagements were to prove the new
concept of naval warfare: the aircraft carrier had
replaced the battleship as the chief unit of
striking power.
While this was where the course of the war
at sea was swung, it is interesting to recall that
General Douglas MacArthur has marked the point
of tide-turn in the land war in the Pacific as the
defeat of the Japanese by Australian troops at
Milne Bay and on the Owen Stanley Ranges of
New Guinea between August and December, 1942.
The real, and admitted, reason for the
American victory at Midway was that a few men
back in U.S. Naval Intelligence had broken the
Japanese Navy’s secret code; the impending attack
on the island was known, and a strong U.S. Carrier
Task Force was waiting.
I think there is one thought we can draw
from that last item of history which should inspire
us as we go on to work out the opportunity that
Providence has preserved for us here in Australia,
and it is this: The successful achievements of any
nation can nearly always be traced back to
individual men and women whose fruitful toil has
had within it the seeds of destiny. s
// //asf^s
r ee4c*t.
7
years, current developments
cannot be ignored”:
“The [Lloyds] report points-
out that the United Kingdom
now launches about 17 per
cent, of the world tonnage,
compared with about 51 pe
cent, in 1948. It is to b
expected that competition wil
become keener, and that cost
and delivery-dates will acquir
even greater significance.
“It is an open questio
whether Britain’s industr
ought not to have expander
after the war. We can sti!
more than hold our own so fa
as quality is concerned, but th
long delivery-dates in Britisi
yards seem to have had much
to do with the placing of order
in foreign yards.
“Recently, however, price
have become of increasing
significance, and it is note
worthy that even the tonnage
being built for British owners
in foreign yards has beer
increasing. It is in the interests
of all in the industry that its
competitive position shoulc
not be worsened.”
London “Financial Times'
considers that the drop in
orders is not catastrophic to
the U.K., but stresses the
long-term effects:
“The threat to the U.K
shipbuilding-industry, however
is long-term rather than
immediate. Average construc-
tion-times show little sign ol
shortening, and the sheer size
of the backlog of orders will
prevent the majority of yards
for some time from offering
any important improvement in
delivery-dates. This in turn
makes it impossible to quote
the fixed prices which are now
the rule in other countries with
shorter order-books. Even if
cancellations enable a number
of yards to offer earlier delivery
than in the recent past, it seems
unlikely that the U.K. will
benefit to any great extent from
a revival in ordering—unless it
follows an international crisis
on the scale of Korea or Suez.”
The same paper quotes the
recent warning.by the chairman
of P. and O. that it would be
impossible to continue placing
orders in the U.K. while over-
seas yards were quoting much
lower prices—and fixed prices,
at that. The “Financial Times”
comments that it is conceivable
that shipowners, who have been
placing orders in the U.K.,
might in the next few years get
into the habit of placing them
abroad ; so that, by the time
the U.K. order-book had been
reduced to the level which
would make the quotation of
fixed prices possible, much of
valuable goodwill would b
lost.
The “Financial Times” con
eludes: “The massive order
book which is at presen
cushioning the U.K. industr
from the growth of competi
tion may also prevent it from
facing-up in good time to th
still more competitive condi
tions which lie ahead.”
London “Economist” sees th
British, shipbuilding-industry a
beginning “to live off its fat,
but comments that “it still ha
plenty of fat”:
“Some comfort can be
derived from the fact tha
foreign yards have been hi
harder by cancellations than
have the British. There is no
sign of an end to the recession
in freight-rates, either in the
tanker-market or in the dry
cargo tramp-trades. But o
these the hardest hit haVe been
the independent owners of both
tanker and dry-cargo tonnage
who normally operate their
fleets under flags of con-
venience.
“Most of the new orders
placed by these owners were in
foreign yards, and conse-
quently the main effect of
cancellations has been felt
abroad. Even in Britain, the
greater part of the can-
cellations made during the
first quarter—lo9,soo out of
183,000 tons —were of orders
placed by foreign owners ; for
once the fact that only about
20 per cent, of the total British
order-book is for foreign
account has its compensations.
“Admittedly, the greater part
of the cancellations during the
first quarter—l29,ooo out of
the 183,000 tons —were also
tankers, and tankers account
for over half of the total
British order-book (and about
three-fifths of the orders for
foreign account). But a large
proportion of the orders for
tankers from British yards has
been placed by the major oil-
companies, which have shown
no signs of cancelling them ;
the independents, who have
been forced to cancel, had
placed most of their orders
abroad.
“This is almost a traditional
pattern of shipbuilding boom
and recession: Britain, building
a wider range of kinds of ship,
but generally more slowly than
its foreign competitors, never
gains as much in the surge of
boom orders, particularly for
big, simple bulk-carriers, and
never steps-up its output
as much; but equally never
loses quite as much as quickly
when cancellations come in
their turn. It is no doubt com-
forting on the Clyde, and will
strengthen some traditional


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire; £2 13s. 6d. Foreign; £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.);
A/asia; 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
attitudes in the industry : else-
where, feelings may well be
mixed.”
Defence
Reorganisation
The controversy over
defence reorganisation is
keen both in London and
Washington, with the distinc-
tion that in London the debate
is limited mainly to Ministers
and high officers of the services,
whereas in Washington the
discussion appears to range
much further than Congress.
This difference prompts
London “Daily Telegraph” to
ask whether the British way is
the better approach to agree-
ment in reform of the defence
organisation:
“The public, which mans the
armed forces, and the Opposi-
tion, which might one day have
to run them, have an obvious
right to be consulted about far-
reaching changes although
Mr. Gaitskell has rejected the
methods of consultation offered
by the Prime Minister.”
The same paper goes on to
analyse the problem that faces
Defence Minister Sandys.
This trouble, it considers, is
basic. Service Ministries cannot
agree on a plan which by
integrating the three services
would at the same time
emasculate them:
“The system [at present
applying] stimulates a conflict
between loyalty to a service
and loyalty to the national
defence policy, much more
easily overcome in war-time
Vicky, in London “New Statesman ."
than in peace-time. Ministers
less masterful than Mr. Sandys
and better able to delegate
authority have found the system
wasteful and unacceptable.
Now it has come to the point
where politicians, officers, and
officials ask themselves whether
they oppose integration of
defence because Mr. Sandys is
the Minister, or whether they
oppose Mr. Sandys because he
believes in integration. It is not
a favorable climate for smooth
and agreed reform.”
The “Daily Telegraph” sees
little evidence yet of public
interest in the question but
concedes that this could easily
be aroused. On the other hand,
it points-out that Whitehall can
see no hope of major economies
in defence unless the overheads
of management are reduced. If
plans for reorganisation of
defence gave promise of huge
economies, they would be
likely to gain public approval.
But this is by no means yet
certain:
“Integration in principle is
highly attractive ; in the higher
reaches of command it is
accepted. But few sailors,
soldiers or airmen are yet
certain just how and when new
weapons will force them further
together. It has been noticed
how those who said five years
ago that the Navy was finished
now expect it to be in the
future the deterrent service.”
The “Daily Telegraph” goes
on to compare the British
system of defence organisation
with “the crippling and wasteful
rivalries of the Washington
system.” It considers that, as
matters now stand, there is
much to be said for moving
cautiously and gaining agree-
ment at each stage, above all
that of the Opposition. If a
drastic reform were now
approved by the Conservatives
and later greatly modified by
the Socialists, the effects on the
morale of the services (which
have already accepted
economies with patience) might
well be disastrous.
Equally important, says the
“Daily Telegraph,” is the need
to show some forbearance to
the service Ministries and
their higher public servants —
who have loyally accepted the
predominance of the Minister
of Defence, but who would not
be prepared to lose more
power without a pause for
reflection by their colleagues.
“For all these reasons,” the
“Daily Telegraph” concludes,
“it is worth considering the
appointment of an independent
committee to study the various
projects for reform that are
available and report their con-
clusions to Government and
people. It is the tried and
trusted third way between the
public methods of Congress
on the one hand and the secret
methods of a Lloyd George
on the other.”
Meanwhile, in Washington,
President Eisenhower is clearly
determined on his own ideas
for defence reorganisation. His
first major speech in the crusade
went out on the TV and radio
networks.
The New York “Herald
Tribune” comments editorially
thaL “it was a fighting speech,
determined and resolute; it
was delivered in the unswerv-
ing mood of the Supreme
Commander of old”:
“He [Eisenhower] was deal-
ing with a subject he knows
inside and out, has lived with,
as he made clear, since 1911.
He said, ‘The fact is modern
weapons have scrambled
traditional service-functions.
Inter-service controversy and
confusion are the result ... I
am quite sure the American
people feel it is far more
important to be able to hit the
target than it is to haggle over
who makes a weapon or who
pulls a trigger.’ ”
The New York “Herald
Tribune” sums-up Eisenhower’s
demands as: “Increased and
unchallengeable central
authority for the Secretary of
Defence ; downgrading of the
individual services, and deletion
of the requirement that they
be ‘separately administered’;
authority to transfer, abolish or
consolidate functions, transfer
officers from one service to
another; later, additional
flexibility on funds.”
The paper is confident of the
President’s success:
“Many hard roadblocks lie
ahead. But the President is
bound to win through them if
he musters and mobilises the
full, articulate support of all the
American people. For they


m
m
t*
I
S round-the-world
flights every week
To simplify your travel
problems, two great air-
lines have combined to
give vou an almost
daily choice of rrfund-
the-world flights.
Four flights a week head
East via Honolulu, San
Francisco and New York
—four a week go West
via Singapore, Rome arid
London. Whichever
direction you want to go,
whatever your reason for
travelling, you will
appreciate the way
QANTAS-8.0.A.C. look
after you at every stage,
both in the air and on
the ground, right around
the globe.
Ask your travel agent to
tell you more about the
Q ANT AS - 8.0.A.C.
round-the-world route.
mm
AUSTRALIA’S ROUND-THE-WORLD AIRLINE
wi th B O A C
JQ&.82.58A
trust him totally and implicitly
in this area of defence, his life-
long specialty. They will back
him irresistibly and no poli-
tician will, in the showdown,
dare stand in their way.”
Baltimore “Sun,” however,
raises one note of caution:
“The heart of the President’s
plan to reorganise the Defence
Department is the immense
concentration of authority in
the hands of the Secretary of
Defence, including respon-
sibility for strategic planning
and extending even to the
making of command decisions.
His authority would be greater
than that of any man in our
military history, excepting only
the Presidents acting in their
role as Commander-in-Chief.
“It is the American tradition
that final military authofity
shall be in civilian hands. But
a civilian Secretary is by
definition an amateur and lacks
Gian Williams, in London “Time and Tide.”
the training and experience of
the professional military man.
More than one sceptic has since
asked where the civilian super-
men capable of discharging
such huge responsibilities could
be found.
“This is typical of the ques-
tions that must be asked and
answered as the new Defence
Department reorganisation
starts through the mill.”
Germany and Russia
In his “Foreign' Affairs”
discussion of the problems of
disengagement between East
and West and the mutual with-
drawal of forces from
Germany, Dean Acheson
(quoted here in B. 7/5/’5B)
mentioned the possibility of an
“abandoned” Germany being
driven into the arms of Russia
in a disastrous kind of
Ribbentrop - Molotov agree-
ment.
Also thinking of the possi-
bilities and consequences of
such an agreement, Don Sal-
vador de Madariaga, in London
“Time and Tide,” suggests
another way in which it might
happen. He sees it as a
potential three-act tragedy, first
act 1917:
“The war, the Kronprinz’s
joyous war, is not going well
for Berlin. The German
General Staff can think of noth-
ing better than to send Lenin
in a sealed carriage from
Switzerland to Finland and
Petrograd. Note the chief
aspects of this move: the in-
difference towards the destinies
of Russia; the naive belief
that Russia can go to her doom
through a Communist revolu-
tion without Germany losing
thereby ; the mixture of narrow,
provincial nationalism and lack
of imagination as to the ulti-
mate tonsequences of the
adventure.
“The whole tragic history of
Europe since then,* Stalin,
Hitler, the Second World War
and the Iron Curtain and the
mutilation of Germany all
flow from that stupid act of
the German General Staff in
1917.
“Second act of the tragedy:
20 years later. Hitler strikes
a bargain with Stalin. This
clears his rear for a knock-
out blow against the British
Empire. Again, complete in-
difference to all that is not
Germany in its narrowest
sense, a shortsighted, nay, a
blind nationalism, a total lack
of imagination as to the con-
sequences. For the second time,
a group of misguided, pro-
vincially nationalistic, un-
imaginative Germans let loose
the Soviet tide that has flooded
Europe.
Now, 20 years later, is the
curtain about to rise on the
third act of the tragedy? Is
there again a group of Germans
narrow enough, provincial
enough, to run towards
Moscow, to cut Germany loose
from the West where she
belongs and to seek an im-
possible agreement between a
free Germany and a driver of
slave nations?
“Are there still Germans
narrow - minded enough,
ignorant enough in their
nationalism, not to realise that
Germany as a separate entity
no longer exists? Since the
phrase ‘defence of Germany’
has no longer any meaning
outside the concept ‘defence of
Europe’ and even ‘defence of
the West,’ defence must be
common and therefore policy
also.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
A Mess of Jackpotage
In the golden age of Sydney
racing eager crowds flocked to
Randwick, Rosehill, Moore-
field, Canterbury, Rosebery
and Hawkesbury and every
near-metropolitan racecourse
without the bait of win-and-
place totes, doubles-totes,
quinella-totes and, last and
most truly robbing racing of
any semblance to the sport of
kings, the jackpot-tote.
I have no great quarrel with
the first three of theSe,
though their patrons do
miss the spice of a tilt with
a live bookmaker. But the
jackpot has produced a race
apart of hag-ridden and
anxious-faced men and women
(one could never imagine they
were out for a day’s enjoy-
ment) lining-up in long queues
for hours before the start of
the day’s programme, burden-
ing themselves with sheaves of
tickets which, if they remain
“alive” (tote-jargon), must be
exchanged for sheaves of other
tickets before each jackpot
race.
As the horses are identified
by numbers as far as the tote
is concerned, the day at the
races for a jackpot addict
develops into a reiteration' of
numbers and lining-up in
queues. Hundreds of them
never even see the race or the
parade of the horses before-
hand ; numbered cockroaches
with flies on their backs would
do them just as well.
L’ Orateur (N.S.W.).
‘‘The Stink of Defeat”
British newspapers that set-
out to refute Joseph Alsop’s
New York “Herald-Tribune”
article (B. 19/ 3/ ’5B) may well
be right in what they say, but
there is something in what he
said, too. It may not be a
stink of defeat, but it is at
least an aroma of querulous
frustration.
The evidence may .be found
in some of the same magazines
that were at pains to correct
Alsop. I have been reading
them for years, and have noted
a remarkable change in them
in that time. Leaving aside for
the moment newspapers such
as the “Daily Express” and
semi-technical magazines such
as the “Economist,” the change
may be most easily identified in
the group of less-directly-
purposed documents to which
such journals as the “Spectator”
and the “New Statesman”
belong.
These papers now are a
constant medium of attack.
Article after article, week after
week, is devoted to an onslaught
on something. The standard is
not ragged; there is no im-
balance or ill-temper, and no
cheapening of tone; but it
seems that every time pen is
put to paper, it is to dispraise.
Any subject will do, from wine-
prices to H-bombers, from what
the Wolfenden report said to
what it did not say, from
the Poet Laureate to Mr.
Khrushchev.
The attacks nearly always
justify themselves ; the writers
are authoritative without being
authoritarian, and the papers
provide a stimulating approach.
But frank, disinterested praise
for the love of the thing seems
to have disappeared from the
press completely. One doesn’t
want to be served-up sheets of
sycophancy by a yes-man press,
but there is little fear of that
in these times. Moreover, it is
not the press alone that is
sniping at everything in sight:
there is a real public demand
for writing of this nature. Many
of the writers are the big names
with a public appeal estab-
lished before they appear in
newsprint.
The habit of looking on the
seamy side of every issue can
become just as boring as Angfy
Young Men become when the
novelty wears-off.
The reiterated assertion that
all’s wrong in this worst of
all possible worlds seems to be
very close to what Alsop was
talking about. Possibly he
could smell defeat in it, but I
think other nostrils might
scent the stale fumes of old
cigarette-smoke in a closed
room: surely.the essence of it
all is a striving after change?—
K. L. W. (Malaya).
Youth Problems
The Queensland Parlia-
mentary Committee’s investiga-
tion of youth problems has
turned-out much as “Sanasi”
(B. 16/4/’5B) anticipated.
Practically no representations
by the ordinary folk who have
most to do with our youth, butr
a great deal from sundry
“experts.” ,
As I write, 23 persons have
given “evidence,” and only
three (a biologist, a pathologist
and a minister of religion) can
be regarded as really dis-
interested. Thirteen deponents
represented seven welfare- or
guidance - organisations and
four spoke-Xip for two social-
services. All thirteen were sure
that, with financial assistance,
their organisations could deal
with youth’s problems quite
effectively. One representative
of a major youth-association,
however, stipulated for
strings attached to any financial
aid” awarded. Even a hypnotist
appeared, apparently to show-
that youth could be hypnotised
into good behavior. He oould
be right (for short periods, and
if the youth co-operated fully),
Seven psychologists appeared
and very successfully sold their
art to the committee—so much
so that the Director-General of
Health, now overseas, is already
seeking 12 psychiatrists for
Queensland. Meantime a class
for youth-leaders has started in
Brisbane with 29 members,
presumably inr anticipation of
employment at the about-to-be-
created youth-centres.
Even before the hearings are
concluded it is obvious that the
Government intends to embark
on a vote-catching spending-
spree with bodgies as the excuse
for creating jobs and building
and equipping contracts ad lib.
Apart from the waste of money,
the business is pathetic. The
accent is on education and
psychological treatment, and
completely ignores the fact that
neither can be applied without
the fullest co-operation of the
persons to be educated or
treated. Why a bodgie should
forsake the undisciplined
freedom for the organised,
and therefore disciplined,
youth-centre is something the
psychologists don’t explain,
This reliance on the educating
and diverting value of youth-
centres has little regard for
many disadvantages it has.
Homosexuality is one problem
that persistently crops-up, and,
despite precautions, is extremely
difficult to deal with. Another
problem that will beset the
youth-leader is that of
youngsters who persist in hang-
ing round the streets after the
meetings instead of going
straight home. A third is the
problem-boy who must be
admitted if any good is to be
done with him but who will
corrupt the rest if he stays,
Casting-out the “rotters” is a
major problem that usually
precipitates a neighborhood
brawl,
The whole system is basically
unjust in that it takes money
(taxes and rates) from other
necessary services to provide
something for a special section
well able to finance its own


When the family
hanks with the C.B.C,
sCII!
m M
MUHEN' the family banks
with The Commercial
Banking Company of Sydney Limited it enjoys
traditionally helpful and friendly advice.* The
Bank’ s many extra services are also available to help
you and those in your care.
ft
*
The C.B.C. Savings Bank
Limited makes convenient and
simple savings facilities avail-
able to all members of the
family.
Deposits in the C.B.C.
Savings Bank are guaranteed
by the parent company .
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
needs; gives benefits to .in
unworthy section that cannot
be enjoyed by the better class
of lads and lasses who stay at
home studying or attend night-
schools, and creates a sense of
injustice, even frustration, in
the student types.
At the inquiry parents came
in for a lot of criticism. No
one seemed to recognise that
the main trouble with parents
is that they have been over-
instructed already by innumer-
able psychologists, mostly
amateur or semi-qualified. It
looks as if the home is to be
invaded by all sorts of advisers
and supervisors. Poor parents!
—Ex-Scouter (Q.).
Bernard Shaw’s Alphabet
I read with great interest,
and with great approval for
the accuracy of the article,
your “£5OO to Kill Dr. John-
son” (B. 16/4/’5B).
In congratulating you, how-
ever, may I question the con-
fidence with which you make
your final judgment “that the
probability of any other book
being published in the same
style in the foreseeable future
is most Pygmalion unlikely”?
I do this by asking you whether
it is not possible that the same
sort of prophecy about the
non-acceptance of the new
Arabic numerals may not often
have been made. Yet in the
event Arabic numerals have
now so fully supplemented
Roman numerals that, of the
two systems currently in use,
the Arabic symbols are by far
the more popular.
If it should be as Shaw
believed, that the new proposed
British alphabet will be, and
will appear to be, so much
better in use than the Roman
one, surely the probability is
that men and women, only a
few to begin with, will use it
and be joined by more and
more as the benefits of the new
are proved in use and widely
appreciated.— l. J. Pitman
(London).
Delayed Mails
If postmen have corns, then
I seem to have trodden on
most of those of C. J. J.
McGrane, whose attempt at
explanation (B. 30/4/’5B) was
published in a week in which
five separate items of mail
failed to arrive in my letter-
box. Let me assure him that
I did not “assume my own
solution,” and that my protest
was made on grounds supplied
by a couple of postmen friends


—highly efficient and likeable
chaps who have nothing to do
with the delays which cause
me loss and inconvenience.
Whatever the mechanics of
mail-sorting may be in Sydney
—and I accept the suggestion
that long-overdue improve-
ments have been cut-out of
the postal estimates by
Treasury officials —i am quite
sure that the human element
is most blameworthy in caus-
ing delays. My view is
reinforced by “Postcript’s”
par. (B. 30/4/’5B), which offers
part of the explanation given
by Mr. McGrane but adds
that the mail-sorting side of
the department is Communist-
infiltrated, if not actually con-
trolled. No procrastination in
the provision of better facili-
ties, no building-up of genuine
grievances as a result of tri-
bunal decision or Government
policy is quite so potent as
the determination of Com-
munist elements everywhere to
cause the maximum trouble in
the widest possible sectors of
the business and private com-
munities.
Most sorters and postmen
do fair and honest jobs, in
conditions which are often un-
pleasant and for wages which,
whether inadequate or not,
must remain subject to tri-
bunal decision and not to
politicians under sectional
pressure. Some, however, are
deliberately loitering, deliber-
ately failing to give the service
for which the public—including
their own mates and neigh-
bors —pays a high and rising
price. Of course fair wages
should be paid ; of course con-
ditions should be conducive to
efficient and fast work without
"No overtaking on the curve, mug!”
undue pressure; of course
“profits” of the Post Office
should go towards such objec-
tives as well as to reducing
exorbitant charges in certain
sectors. But while I pay high
rates to have mail delivered to
me in reasonable time, and
fail to receive the service for
which I pay, then I shall con-
tinue to denounce the shabby
trickery of some of Mr.
McGrane’s members, and the
insolence they show in think-
ing they can hold the whole
community up to ransom. —
Ex-ACT (N.S.W.).
Registered Letters
A letter I had registered
having apparently gone astray,
I was gratified to note from the
printed endorsement on the
receipt I held that for a regis-
tration-fee of Is. 3d. - the
current charge—compensation
would be paid in the event of
loss, “up to an amount of £40.”
Mentioning this to the official
at the post-office, I was met
by a bland smile and the
information that compensation
payable was not more than £5.
When I drew his attention to
the endorsement, he drew
mine to the fact that the forms
of receipt had been printed in
1947, as though that satisfac-
torily disposed of the matter.
Where does the public stand
in the matter? If the amount
of compensation for loss has
been reduced, then why, when
the registration-fee was in-
creased to Is. 3d., wasn’t the
endorsement on those forms
altered? -—Harry the Horse
(Vic.).
Credit Releases
Releases from reserves of
£2O million to the trading-
banks opens-up interesting
possibilities. No doubt this
will stimulate business activity
to some degree, but with fall-
ing export - prices prudent
borrowers will move
cautiously. Many will prefer
to decrease overdrafts rather
than increase.
Even if acceptable cus-
tomers are found, another dose
of credit will then be needed
later with an upsurge in the
price-level.
Our real wealth lies in wool,
wheat, minerals and so on;
any further marked fall in the
prices of these commodities
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 486
Across
I—Petty1—Petty effort try a friend. (6)
4 —The fellow’s fright is Spanish. (8)
10 — Beginners without bad habits. (7)
11— One of the skills of a grammarian composing a good
round to sing. (7)
12 — Boa-agent in modified act of renunciation. (10)
14—High-priest of Shiloh. (3)
17—Vessel he immerses. (61
18 — For example, I-I equals I. (3)
19 — A humdinger for an American
opeia by Berg halving Hawaii’s
capital. (4)
20— Change lor frolicking with no
beating a»vay from. (3)
22 — Employer sure to get into
contusion. (4)
23 — An old-fashioned inquiry as to
the existence of you paintings. (3)
24 — Hairdresser at battle. (6)
27 One way the church architect
can express feeling sweat. (8)
28 — Gippsland town. (3)
31 — Turkey’s Sir F. to finish one. (7)
32 Thpls column bases. (7)
33 — Lee’s frog, has these features
of all quadrupeds. (8)
34 Father Thomas is not without
tear-jerking quality. (6)
Down
I—A1 —A potentate to severely criticise
a New Year tom-tom. (10)
J2 —Tomatoes esteem delicious demo-
crat Jonathan. (4-6)
3 —He renounces a belief about a
horse’s gait. (8)
5 I’m having a tantrum, and I
leave a skin disorder. 7 (8)
6 A spotted animal on an amnesty
round which is good to Brad-
man. (6)
7 It is designed for fastening one
in nothing. (4)
8 — Pen a four-note musical theme. (4)
9 Ring the wise redskin. (5)
13 —Later concealed on the qui
vive. (5)
15 — Football engagement keeps
warmer by a firestick. (5. 5)
16 — They are but hair supports,
possibly nanny-goats. (10)
20 — Quickly searching the ruler of
Friday gambolling. (8)
21- —Do cinema changes make a
continental Sunday! (8)
25 Spring-like raven knocked about
50. (6)
26 — Secret agent of the West Indies
is of fine, floating texture. (5)
29 Piano fairy makes dough in the
worst sense. (4) •
30 — One of our fighting services in
a new formation at a dis-
„ tance. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 485


r 9 VIM 9HJL
SAfItUSV A4O7S
vamwnrH v i
BUILD A BETTER
FARM PEACE WITH
THE STEEL FENCE DROPPER
WITH THE LUG
PARTICULARLY SUITED FOR INTERMEDIATE SUPPORT FOR
EITHER MESH TYPE OR PLAIN WIRE FENCES
IDEAL FOR REPLACING BURNT OR ROTTED WOODEN
DROPPERS
RUGGED STRENGTH AND LIGHT WEIGHT
LUG SPACINGS TO SUIT ALL TYPES OF FENCING
COATED WITH WEATHER-RESISTANT PAINT
SUPPLIED IN LENGTHS OF 4' 6", 4' 0", 3' 9"
Solely manufactured by
STEEL MILLS LTD.
STEEL ROLLERS AND MERCHANTS
SHADDOCK AVENUE, VILLAWOOD, N.S.W.
PHONES: UB 2767, UB 3394, UB 3395
Obtainable from
WOOL HOUSES, STOCK & STATION
AGENTS & ALL LEADING COUNTRY
STORES, OR ENQUIRE DIRECT TO
STEEL MILLS LIMITED.
must mean expanding diffi-
culties for us.
It could be that another
Premiers’ Plan may be neces-
sary if the downward trend in
our overseas sales continues.
The vital point is the
reduction in our home cost-
structure, but that's political
dynamite! —C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
TV and the Theatre
Is TV really the great boon
it was cracked-up to be?
Hailed as the vivid medium of
mass contact —as radio was —
it may never live-up. “Class-
room in the home” .. . .
“Theatre in the living-room”:
Do you go along?
The automobile came ; the
horse went. Some said a good
animal could be admired, but
an auto, stirred not the soul.
Steam-locomotives go, diesels
come, and there is the nostalgic
yearning—“ Trains aren’t the
same.” No soot, but less
appeal. Even aviation—priest-
hood of the religion of change
for improvement—mourned the
propeller’s dethronement by the
jet tail-pipe.
Sad will be the day when the
circus folds its tent. Vaudeville
died when motion-pictures
came. Then the pictures talked.
“Theatre” was dead—but came
back with a different tang.
Will it survive the swanky box,
with puny aid of the “drive-
ins”—those orderly grave-
yards of cars, dark and silent,
with no communion of
audienee?
What folly permits us to
condone so easily this selling-
down - the - river of the
romance, the enchantment, the
treasured moments of life ; the
vital “trace-element” that
sparks the whole cavalcade?
TV is not “theatre.” — Acolyte
(N.S.W.).
Local Government
If, as M. F. Dixon (B.
23/4/’5B) avers, aldermen of
the Springwood ward of Blue
Mountains City “feel that rate-
payers would be prepared to
pay even a little more than the
extra 70 per cent, in rates they
will have to meet as a result
of the increased valuation,
provided a fair share of the
additional £39,000 they will
fork-out is spent in the ward,”
then it’s time they came out of
their trance.
Ratepayers of the area
endorse with gusto the opinion
of Mainerd, secretary of the
Local Government Association,
that saturation-point has been
reached in the matter of taxa-
tion and that councils will have
to devise other means of rais-
ing finance or else “cut their
cloth.” It has taken a long time
for municipal nabobs to
realise that the ratepaying
milch-goats can yield only a
limited quantity of milk.
Actually the combined rates
fixed for the Springwood ward
for 1958 (15.2 d.) exceed those
of 1957, despite the fact that
council had £1,134,053 more to
play with in the way of land-
valuations in that area alone.
Water, sewerage and sanitary-
services in the municipality all
bear additional imposts as well.
however, what should con-
cern .ratepayers generally is that
they have until July-August to
pay rates which accrued due on
January 1, 1958. In other
words, they, as a body, have
been, and will be for seven or
eight months, paying interest on
a bank overdraft required to
finance council’s activities until
rates are paid.
If, as one would expect, the
special meeting to fix rates foiv
the then ensuing year had been
held in December last instead
of three months later, an appre-
ciable amount of unnecessary
interest would have been saved.
And, thinking in terms of
interest, one could be excused
for seeing the funny side of
ratepayers, in this neck of the
woods, this year paying £1959
interest and principal on loans
of £35,000, borrowed in the
dim past for preliminary work
on a sewerage scheme for the
township, still in the blue-print
stage. —J. Swift (N.S.W.).


ROYAL JELLY
Direct from the bees. Fabulously
rich vitalising dietary supplement.
One month’s supply, in capsules,
£5/5/-> o r mixed in 6 ounces of
honey, £5. Technical data 2/6.
Free Leaflet.
R. A. PEACOCK,
Apiarist, 21 Carbine Street,
KERANG, VICTORIA.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
DO-IT-YOURSELF DROVING
THE cost of paying a
drover to keep sheep
on the road for any length of
time is pretty steep these'days
—around £7O a week for an
experienced drover, his off-
sider, and a cook. It’s not a
bad idea to'do the job your-
self, if you can manage the
time.
Last December, with a
drought brewing, a good few
graziers in this N.S.W. district,
around Gundagai, put their
sheep on the roads, mak-
ing for the mountain country
around Tumbarumba and
through to the Upper Murray
districts on the Victorian
border, where feed and water
were abundant.
Reg Smith, a Cootamundra
grazier and former drover, gave
several local men the idea
when he passed through with
a mob of 1500 sheep. Two
Tumblong graziers who were
inexperienced as drovers but
who, of course, knew some-
thing aLout sheep, decided to
join forces with mobs of 1000
sheep each. They found there
In dry areas Vitamin
A was essential if a
high degree of fertil-
ity was to be main-
tained in breeding
ewes, rams and lambs.
Proper treatment
with Vitamin A_ in
liquid form could
increase lamb sur-
vival and the number
of lambs born by
25 per cent. A fur-
ther aid to lamb
survival is the use
of Elastrator Rubber
Rings for marking
and tailing. As this
method avoids cutting
it reduces shock and
set-back which is
frequently fatal.
was rather more to it than they
had at first imagined, but, on
the whole, it was worth doing.
First, of course, there was
the business of permits. Here
a glance at the regulations
seems relevant:
Application for permit to travel
stock being made, time and date
“This is better than going down with the ship!”
of issue is shown on permit.
Destination is given, to be shown
accordingly.
In all districts, except a district
in the western division, a charge
is made of Is. for each 100 sheep
or portion thereof for each 10
miles or portion thereof travelled.
The distances show.n on the
official travelling-stock-route map
shall be the distances on which a
travelling-rate shall be computed
with respect to all travelling stock.
Travelling stock must travel
six miles a day from reserve
to reserve. The sheep must be
on the reserve before night-
fall. If sheep are hit by a
vehicle when travelling after
nightfall the owner has no
redress.
Preparations for the trip
took about a month. For one
thing, it had to be decided what
sheep were to be taken, what
sheep to leave behind. The
main idea was to spell the
paddocks until the expected
rajns came, and strong wethers
were selected, leaving ewes
(joined in December) and last
year’s lambs, with some other
sheep, in the best paddocks.
Then all the travelling sheep
were drenched before the trip,
the one horse needed was shod,
and the gear was assembled.
The Land/Rover was fitted
with a small trailer, and a
fair - sized tarpaulin, and
another, smaller tarpaulin were
packed in ' the trailer. Other
equipment included a primus-
stove, a fire-beater, an eight-
gallon demijohn of water with
a piece of hose for syphoning-
out water for washing dishes or
drovers, as required, three
water-bags (attached to the
back of the Rover), groceries
in cartons, bread wrapped in a
cloth and put in a big biscuit-
tin, butter wrapped in a wet
cloth and placed in a porous
container . . . Also two strong
raincoats, thick-soled boots,
sweaters, spare pairs of work-
ing-trousers, cotton shirts . . .
They set-off on a hot, dry,
February morning, one driving
the Land/Rover, the other
riding the horse, and were glad
to get off the main Hume High-
way with its fast, never-ending
traffic, and turn south along the
old, little-used road, towards
Lower Tarcutta.
It was an interesting trip,
and one well worth doing, quite
apart from spelling the home-
paddocks, finishing some 150
miles and six weeks later, in the
mountain country. The hardest
stretch was from the foot of
Talbingo, a few miles out of
Tumut, up the steep stock-
route to a second gateway
leading to open country, with
Yarrangobilly village at the
top of the mountain.
The idea is to let the sheep
fill-up with water and grass on
the reserve at the foot of the
mountain. Jounama Creek,
fresh and clear from the
mountains, is a stream that
delights the eye of tourist and
trout-fishermen —and drovers.
Best to get the sheep on to
the reserve by midday and
give them the afternoon and
night, to prepare for the long
drag up the mountain. The
drovers have time to prepare,
too, after they pitch camp and
fence-in the sheep on the
reserve with the netting and
iron posts they carry in the
Land / Rover, over at the' Tal-
bingo hotel. It’s quite a
famous place. There’s good
beer, and singing in the bar,
and even a local poet —a stock-
man on Talbingo station, who
lives in a cottage .on the
opposite side of the Jounama,
crossed by a swinging bridge
which must disconcert some
of his visitors who have been
singing too heartily.
Next morning, with the sun
dancing from Black Perry,
highest mountain of the range,
the waters of Jounama spinning
over the smooth stones of the
creek-bed, the drovers break-
fast, then, before the sheep
are turned through the first
gateway into the mountain
laneway, one man rides ahead
to see how the gate is at the
other end, several. miles on;
it is closed. It will take the
sheep fully half a day to reach
the second gate.
When they see the sheep'
gradually making their way up
the steep incline the drovers
go back to their camp on the
reserve. The sheep will have
to fend for themselves until
the second gate is opened for
them the next day, and the
drovers take them/ on to the
open country of the tableland.
PAT O’DAY.
Alice Springs Sale
“F.”: Something of an
object-lesson to breeders and
agents was the fifth combined
sale of herd-bulls held at Alice
Springs on Thursday, April 24,
according to M. Montgomery,
manager of Woomargama
Estate, via Albury, N. S. Wales.
The sale was successful, con-
sidering the, dry conditions in


S 8» 8
Haddon Rig Special Stud Ram No. 157, one
of five to be offered at the Sydney Ram Sales
(COUNTRY LIFE photo).
At the Sydney Sales
Australia's Top Rams
Will again be offered by
HADDON RIG
Thanks to the inherent sturdiness and adapta-
bility of Haddon Rig Rams, breeders can count
on bidding for yet another splendid team from
Australia’s premier Merino Stud. As eighteen
months of drought—the driest spell at Haddon
Rig since 1902 —was preceded by an extremely
wet year, every ram has had to prove himself
under the most adverse conditions.
The Haddon Rig team for Sydney is of very
even quality, and is regarded by keen judges as
outstanding, especially in view of the seasonal
conditions it has experienced. It comprises five
Special Stud Rams, 36 Stud Rams, and 70
selected rams—lll in all, or one more than the
1957 team, which secured a remarkable “hat-
trick” —£4,725 for top Merino Ram, £14,490 for
5 “Specials,” and top aggregate (£47,806) for
the eighteenth successive year!
Next month, the five Haddon Rig “Specials”
will be offered by Dalgety & Co., together with
the 36 Stud Rams and 30 selected Rams. The
first “Special” to be auctioned will be No. 700,
considered to be the, finest autumn drop ram
ever to leave Haddon Rig. 20 Selected Rams
will each be offered by Commonwealth Wool 8s
Produce Co. and A.M.L. 8s F. Co. Ltd.
76 years of mating “like with like” presents
you with a grand opportunity—to bid for your
share of the wealth that Haddon Rig Blood
brings to breeders and growers throughout
Australia.
HADDON RIG STUD
Warren, N.S.W. Telephone: Warren 74
RGIB.SS
the Northern Territory, but it
was clear from the prices that
the senders of sub-standard
herd-bulls would have been
well advised to leave them
home.
“Stud - breeders gave
wonderful support to the sale,”
Montgomery said, “and all the
animals entered for the sale
were cleared. The quality of
the Shorthorn cattle sent over
was very good. On the other
hand, unfortunately, there was
quite a tail of inferior animals
which were not in condition
and which, naturally, did not
meet with the approval of
buyers. The upshot of the
sale should be sufficient
evidence to demonstrate that
sending cattle so poor in quality
is ill-considered on any con-
sideration. They are not only
a losing proposition, but a bad
advertisement for the breed.”
Top price realised at the
sale was 310gns. paid by
Desmond Leahy, an Adelaide
buyer, for a white Shorthorn
bull, Kelso Limelight, calved
October, 1955, offered on
account of G. Starritt and Son,
Kelso Park, North - west
Mooroopna (Vic.). This bull
was by Chapelton Wanderer
(imp.).
Four Shorthorn bulls offered
by Mrs. J. L. McDonald,
Wombo, Singleton (N.S.W.),
brought a total of 1060gns. Of
these, J. H. Gorey, of Yamba,
Alice Springs, paid 300gns. for
Stirling Loch Lochy by West-
drums Earl (imp.), and 250gns.
and 210gns. for two others.
Gorey paid 200gns. for a red
Shorthorn bull from John
Parker, Old Canowie, Hallett
(S.A.), and made other
purchases at prices up to
160gns.
A. W. Kavanagh paid
300gns. for Stirling Leith by
Bapton Ringleader (imp.). Tom
Gorey paid 260gns. for a bull
offered by W. J. Dawkins
Newbold, Ltd., Gawler River,
and paid 160gns., 150gns. and
140gns. for other bulls. W. J.
Bird paid 200gns. for a Short-
horn bull offered by J. Kernel-
field, Wongala, Woodend.
Offered on behalf of
Woomargama Estate, a roan
Shorthorn bull brought 230gns.
from C. M. Chalmers,
McDonald Downs. A second
Woomargama bull went to
Chalmers for 180gns.
H. Matthews paid 215gns.
for a Shorthorn bull from J. D.
McLarty Estate, Bundure
Siding (N.S.W.), and 200 for a
white bull from Woomargama.
Finke River Mission made a
number of purchases, mostly at
comparatively low prices.
Horse Care
“South”: Because of the
preponderance of mechanical
equipment on the farm these
days, such horses as are retained
tend to become neglected. But
they need just as much care as
if they were relied upon to do
the major work on the property.
Particularly, horses should
not be allowed to get too fat
or they are likely to founder.
Overeating of grain is another
source of this trouble. If horses
are well and regularly exer-
cised, and fed carefully, the
risk of infection will be small.
If they do succumb, and a
vet. isn’t available, dose the
horse with \to 1 gal. of
paraffin-oil and stand it in a
dam or on ground made wet
with a hose or tap.
Overdriving
“Silk”: The technique of
overdrilling seed and fertiliser
into pastures and crop-stubbles
is reported to be so promising
overseas that it seems weil
worth further trial here—in
better-rainfall areas, anyway.
It seems certain that over-
drilling is worth-while for intro-
ducing fertiliser or seed into
existing swards.
A recent use for overdrilling
is to introduce a winter-growing
crop, such as oats, directly into
the stubble of a summer-
grower such as maize or rape,
instead of spending too much
time in soil-preparation between
the crops.
Although only of one year’s
duration, New Zealand experi-
ments with this method are
very promising. One advantage
is the reduced Weed-growth
induced by overdrilling com-
pared with cultivation, which
tends to spread the moisture
and encourage weeds. Another
is extra work for overdrilling-
equipment, with consequent
spreading of overhead-costs
over the season.
Wax-moth
“B-herd”: The destructive-
ness of the wax-moth, Galleria
mellonella, is under-assessed in
modern beekeeping. True, a
decent colony of bees will keep
the ever-present pest down, but
let parlous conditions befall that
colony and it’s out —eaten, as
it were, alive by the children
of voracious Madam Moth. If
queenlessness occurs and


dwindling becomes rife, the
defences of the hive are relaxed,
the moth enters, cuckoo-like,
scatters her eggs and in next
to no time the bees are moving
over and finally out.
Once settled in, the larvae
of the moth seem impervious
to attack. They live in writhing
millions in spin-webbed cause-
ways and champ their way
through comb after comb. Ants,
who relish the grubs, can’t get
near them ; the bees themselves
—unless they are piping strong
Italians shy-away from the
impenetrable wall of sticky
web. When the beeherd finally
catches-up with the infestation
and knocks-off the lid and
pulls the mess apart, he observes
even then this senseless, blind
and loathsome grub employing
evasive tactics to escape
annihilation by either lying
doggo at the extreme end of
its hidden burrows or by
wriggling quickly through to
the underside of the comb as
they are inspected.
Further, flung out in heaps
on the ground, the grubs set-up
emergency camps. Pluck them
sleeping from their grey-white
cocoons, they’ll rouse them-
selves and with some residue of
strength called-up from within
the pulpy mash they’ll attach
themselves to whatever offers
and start spinning a second
cocoon. They’ll squeeze their
ugly pulp into inaccessible
places, then set-to with their
knives and hack-out holes in
the wood to suit their form
whilst Mother Nature nurses
them through their meta-
morphosis. In a matter of days,
almost, they can turn valuable
worker-comb into excreta-
spotted web.
The mature moth is big
enough to conceal most of a
shilling-piece, is dirty-brownish
white in color, speck-headed,
and greasy to the touch—a not-
inconsiderable aid for escape.
Which all adds-up to the idea
that Nature intended the moth
to be around.
A surprising number of
amateur beekeepers have been
wiped-out by the moth. They
do the wrong thing somewhere
along the line with their three
or four colonies, the moth
swoops in and they find only
the woodwork left on their next
inspection-trip. A well-mothed-
up hive is the best cure in the
book for bee-fever.
Every year, in his out-yards,
the experienced migrator pays
his toll of one or two or a
dozen eaten-out hives, depend-
ing on the frequency of inspec-
tion. He can only be around
sometimes; the übiquitous
moth drops around every night.
In the autumn and early spring
and in bad times he has his
big stacks of extra supers of
combs to fret over. There are
preparations on the market,
such as cynogas, carbon-
bisulphide and others, which
give fairly good protection.
Most of them need constant
checking.
I know of one beeherd who,
in a bad time, stacked dozens
of boxes and fumigated with a
heavier - than - air fumigant.
Regularly he inspected the
stacks. The day came when he
needed them. He pulled the
first two unharmed boxes off
the top and found the rest
riddled. The man wasn't
approachable for days. Alto-
gether, as said earlier, Madam
Wax-moth’s devotion to her
chores and the resultant damage
goes a little underassessed in
this country.
Drought Benefits
“Peter B.”: Old Mother
Nature usually knows what she
is about, and a drought has
many beneficial results which
we tend to overlook. Footrot,
which has been rampant over
the past few years, can be
cleaned-up and the spores take
the count under dry conditions,
so that with reasonable cate
the disease can be eliminated
from a property.
Worms need moisture to live
during the external phase of
their cycle and die in millions
during a drought, giving the
farmer the opportunity of
cleaning his flock by drenching,
even without the officially-
recommended spelled paddock.
Low-lying land which has
become sour and reed-covered
in a succession of wet years
can be burnt-off and ploughed
to let the sun in, and drains
can be ploughed to stop a
repetition of the trouble. The
true need for conserved fodder
can be assessed. Bad-doers
among the flock, which are
uneconomical to keep, but
tend to get by in flush years,
soon show-out and can be
disposed of. Dams should be
de-silted, and, if dry—which
proves they were too small —
should be enlarged.
Shire-engineers welcome a
dry spell to get their roads
back in repair the Hume
Highway would have become,
hopeless with one more wet
year after 1956, and that would
apply to most of the State
highways. Drought is hard to
contend with and does a lot
of harm to the exchequer, but
it’s not all pessimism and loss.
Liquid Manure
“Cowcocky”: A recent con-
tributor, “Billjim,” is quite
correct about the value of
urine. Those who use dung
usually get good value for their
money. But to get the stuff in
all its richness a man should
plough-in a space which has
been used as a night-paddock.
Weights and measures and
chemical analyses don’t enter
into this. It can safely be
assumed that when the top of
the ground is dotted with heaps
of manure the ground is
saturated with the richer stuff
which has been poured forth
and absorbed.
I speak from experience—and
I didn’t use any test-tubes. I
made a practice for years of
ploughing-in and planting
small paddocks which held the
cows overnight. I don’t claim
superior husbandry or better
soil; I attribute my success,
and the envy of my neighbors,
to making full use of all the
cows’ droppings.
If a man is hand-feeding
saccaline or other small-
grained crops, then he’ll never
get such a harvest from a self-
sown crop. About half, or a
little less, the seed passes
through the cows undigested.
When it is ploughed-in those
seeds get away to a flying start
—most of them are embedded
in manure. I reckon one of
the greatest needs for successful
farming is labor-saving devices.
If anyone can tell me a greater
and more economical labor-
saver than making the cows
work both ways, then I have
yet to hear of it.
Chitted Beef
“Tiger”: Brightest news on
Australia’s export-markets for
some time is that the United
Kingdom would be interested
in taking regular supplies of
our chilled beef, if we could
deliver it in 30 days, and that
shipping-companies are willing
to build the required freighters,
if we can supply the produce
to fill them.
At present, it seems, our
greatest handicaps are that we
cannot guarantee regular
supplies—say, one shipload a
month—and that the meat is
on the water too long if
separate pick-ups have to be
made between North Queens-
land ports and Perth or
Broome.
There seem to be at least
threes ways in which we can
improve the supplies of beef
for overseas markets. The first
is earlier weaning in the
breeding-areas and transfer of
the youngsters to fattening-
country nearer the seaboard—
south-east South Australia and
the whole of southern Victoria
would be suitable examples.
Associated with this would
be the carrying of more beef
on sheepbreeding-properties,
where the larger animals can
contribute to good pasture-
management at relatively little
cost by cleaning-up the rough
stuff for the shorter bite of the
sheep.
The third way would be to
use more beef-sires on milking
cows in the dairying districts.
This method, which has been
successful in producing good-
quality beef in the United
Kingdom, would provide an
additional source of income
for dairyfarmers, especially
during the current period while
overseas sales of butter are
lagging.
The beauty of these schemes
is that they can be adapted
quickly to alternate production
as the need arises.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(1/5/’5B)
General rains are indicated in Queensland during June,
and these should bring relief to the dry areas of the State.
Reasonably good rains should continue on the south coast
during July, but a period of patchy rainfall may follow.
N.S.W. should receive general rains in June, with the
heaviest falls in the southern divisions. These rains may
be associated with gales in inland areas and cyclonic activity
on the Coast.
Fairly heavy general rains are indicated in Victoria
during June and July, with the prospect of flooding in the
northern division, South Gippsiand, and the Wimmera.
General rains should occur over all South Australia
during June, with the heaviest falls in the Stirling Ranges and
south-east. Good rains should continue in the agricultural
areas during July, patchy in the interior.
Good rains likely throughout W.A. during June, with
heavy falls on the south-west coastal areas.
LENNOX WALKER.


Pipe
'EXTRA
ACRES"
to your
property
... with
X
i Hi
r
HI
HIM
IS
». * •••'
41
PROfIT-PLAHHfD jf
IRRIGATION
S ¥ S T E Mi S
Double the carrying
capacity of your land
—take off two or
three crops where you once got one!
Graziers, orchardists, dairymen are doing
this right now getting big profits from
the "extra acres" that Ames Irrigation brings
in greater yields, better quality. Plan now
for certain prosperity. An Ames profit-
planned system will set you on your feet.
It’s engineered by experts—soil, water avail-
ability, crops, climate, etc., are all co-ordin-
ated into an individual system and watering
schedule. It'll put "new acres" on your
property in months—pay for itself in no time.
LARGEST RANGE OF EQUIPMENT
Ames has systems for every need—featuring light*
weight aluminium pipes, amazing ABC couplers,
four mechanical movement devices. No menu*
facturer can match the Ames range your
guarantee of a well • balanced, water saving,
labour-saving system.
Illustrated is highly portable ‘ , Tow-A-Line ,, on
wheels system. Others include: "Wheel-O-Rain 1 *
for side-roll movement and "Perf-O-Rain" low
pressure, overhead sprinkling for precision
watering.
AMES for tii© biggest return from a crop investment!
See your local Ames Agent or contact your State Distributor.
Manufactured by
AMES IRRIGATION PTY. LTD • South Street, Rydalmere, N.S.W.
Distributed by
N.S.W.: DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH
LTD., 10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
VIC.: DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH
(Vic.) PTY. LTD., Stubbs Street,
Flemington.
QLD. : LEVIN & CO. LTD., Margaret
Street, Brisbane. DALGETY & CO.,
Cairns and Townsville.
S.A.: LEVIN & CO. LTD., Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
W.A.: HARRIS, SCARFE & SANDOVERS
LTD., Hay Street, Perth.
TAS.: H. D. CRUICKSHANK & CO., New
Town, Hobart.
N.Z.: A. M. BISLEY & CO. LTD., Hamilton
and Christchurch.


Womem's Letters
MELBOURNE
In brilliant sunshine, men from the
visiting American warships joined Aus-
tralian servicemen and -women in the
march through the city streets in honor
of Coral Sea Week. At the Town Hall
the Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, with
General Isaac White (Commander-in-
Chief of the U.S. Forces in the Pacific),
took the salute. Lady Brooks accom-
panied her husband and wore a smoke-
blue tweed suit, the jacket featuring a
slightly-bloused back ; her matching blue
cap was finished with a brow-hugging
velvet band finished with a flat bow.
Mrs. White’s choice was a honey-beige
coat over a bolero suit of beech-brown,
beige and white checked wool. Her
beige pillbox hat was edged with ocelot.
Mrs. Henry Bolte, who was also on the
dais, chose a light-royal-blue jersey tur-
ban to go with her plumbago-blue suit,
the coat featuring the new seven-eighths
length.
After the march the Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. F. W.
Thomas) entertained official guests at a
reception and buffet-luncheon. Mrs.
Thomas looked attractive in a black
tailored suit, white blouse and red-fur-
felt beanie-cap. Guests included Vice-
Admiral Sir Roy Dowling and Lady
Dowling; Air-Vice-Marshal A, L.
Walkers; Air - Vice - Marshal lan
McLachlan, and Mrs. McLachlan (she
wearing a relaxed-line suit of cinnamon-
brown wool and a beige cloche finished
with matching silk-ruching); Lieut.-
Colonel Collas Harris (U.S. Asst. Air
Force Attache) and Mrs. Harris ; Mr. and
Mrs. Walter Killough; and U.S. Naval
Attache Capt. Clarence White, and Mrs.
White.
☆ ☆ ☆
Five hundred guests attended the
Australian-American Association’s Coral
Sea luncheon in the Royaie Ballroom,
guests-of-honor being General I. D.
White and Mrs. White. Red, white and
blue satin streamers and festoons of the
same colored flowers decorated the
official table, which also carried small
Australian and American flags. Clf&ters
of flags were also used on the individual
tables.
In the absence of the president of the
association (Sir John Latham), senior
vice-president Wesley lnce and Mrs. Ince
welcomed General and Mrs. White. Mrs.
White’s ensemble of lavender wool was
topped with a matching pillbox-hat
trimmed with pink rosebuds. Of. beige
tweed was Mrs. lnce’s jacket-suit, which
had a lilac-velvet collar to match her
cap. The Premier and Mrs. Bolte were
in the official party, she wearing a navy
tailored suit and small cap in lighter-
blue tonings. With the Lord Mayor (Cr.
F. W. Thomas) was Mrs. Thomas, whose
black-and-grey-striped wool suit was
worn with a deep-crowned felt hat in
leaf-green. Mrs. R. G. Casey, Lady
Herring, U.S. Consul-General Graham
Hall and Mrs. Hall were also in the
official party.
Others at the luncheon were Transport
Minister Sir Arthur Warner and Lady
Warner ; Chief of the Air Board, Air-
Marshal F. R. W. Scherger, and Mrs.
Scherger ; Mrs. T. Wallace Mitchell and
her daughter, Mrs. Dudley Gordon; and
Mrs. John Mack, from whose garden at
Macedon came the lovely foliage used
for the decorations.
Fashion-designer Joy Allen is one of
the four vice-presidents of the recently-
formed Junior Australian-American
Association and was on the committee
which staged its first and highly-successful
hail. The objective of this association
is to found a Fulbright scholarship in
reverse.
Before dining with Army Minister J. O.
Cramer and members of the Military
Board at Victoria Barracks, General and
Mrs. White went to the cocktail-party
given for them and for officers from the
visiting U.S. ships by the Junior A.-A.A.
The 200 guests were received by Peter
Tremayne and Jane Hennessy, who on
behalf of members presented General
White with a boomerang and Mrs, White-
with a small koala bear. Mrs. White
looked stunning in a gown of emerald-
green silk-taffeta, the skirt featuring a
sweeping back-panel. At the party were
Ruth Morrow, Therese Doyle, Virginia
Smith, Margaret Sublet, Mary Ryan,
Mrs. E. K. Smart, Mrs. Keith Rigg, Mrs.
C. W. Mac Kay, Carl Dowd, lan Morton
and Robert Coles.
At the Coral Sea Dinner Ball, held at
St. Kilda Palais, dinner was served at
tables decorated with miniature catama-
rans which had curving sails and were
filled with sprays of poinsettia and frangi-
pani flown down from Queensland.
Hibiscus and tall palms gave the decor a
tropical touch. At one end of the ball-
room was a Pacific island backdrop, at
the other a large bronze American eagle
surrounded by Australian and American
flags.
The Governor and Lady Brooks (she
wearing a pale-blue tulle gown, the bead-
trjmmed bodice having pale-blue satin
shoulder-straps) were received by the
president of the women's group of the
Australian-American Association (Mrs.
R. G. Casey) and Mr. Casey, and the
vice-president of the association, Mr.
Wesley lnce, and Mrs. lnce. Mrs. Casey
wore a black-and-gold brocade gown and
jacket, Mrs. lnce a deep-green chiffon
gown which had a draped bodice and
full gathered skirt. The Lady Mayoress
(Mrs. F. W. Thomas) chose an off-
shoulder gown of delphinium-blue satin
with side draping featured on the skirt.
Others in the official party were Air-
Marshal F. R. W. Scherger, and Mrs.
Scherger, Lady Murdoch, Mr. and Mrs.
Mark Clements, the Minister for Hous-
ing (Mr. Petty) and U.S. Consul-General
Graham Hall and Mrs. Hall.
CANBERRA
Parties were numerous during the week,
with many overseas and inter-State visi-
tors in the capital. The C.-in-C. U.S.
Army in the Pacific, General I. D. White,
and his attractive wife, paid a brief visit;
a gala reception was given in their honor
by the American Ambassador and Mrs.
W. J. Sebald at the Hotel Canberra.
☆ * *
Madame Chen Tai Chu wore national
dress in embroidered black satin to re-
ceive the guests with her husband, the
Chinese Minister, at a reception given at
their residence to entertain three officials
from the Republic of China, Mr. Liang,
Mr. Teng and Mr. Chien, who are on a
three-weeks’ tour of Australia. Guests
included Cabinet Ministers, Senators and
diplomats. Noted also the Japanese Am-
bassador (who is dean of the diplomatic
corps) and Mrs. Suzuki; and the High
Commissioner for South Africa and Mrs.
Hamilton, her black frock worn with a
black and beaten-gold stole.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sir Frank and Lady Richardson were
host and hostess at a gay dinner-party in
the Hotel Canberra’s Blue Room, given
by the Australian Council of Retailers
for delegates attending the first annual
convention of the council to be held in
Canberra. Sir Frank, well-known for his
carnation boutonniere, wore a prize red
bloom in his dinner-jacket; secretary Mr.
W. Johnson and his wife were there from
Melbourne, also Sir Allan and Lady
Brown ; Sir William and Lady Dunk ;
and Mrs. S. A. Minto and Mrs. A. H.
Ennor, of Canberra, who were official


guides to delegates’ wives during the
convention.
* * *
The Charge d’Affaires of the German
Embassy and Mrs. Otto Burchard gave
an enjoyable cocktail-party at their Red
Hill home before leaving on a short visit
inter-State. Mrs. Burchard wore an at-
tractive black frock embroidered with
silver beads.
SYDNEY
Sydney’s fine, clear autumn weather
was the week’s most welcome arrival.
The poinsettias suddenly seemed to
appear all round the suburbs, as if they
had been kept hidden indoors and then
put out overnight; and the chrysanthe-
mums turned-up in hordes for Mother’s
Day. Most pithy comment on Mum’s
Day, by the way, came from one who
is really a very happy member of the
Mothers’ Union: “Well, 1 must say my
union hasn’t done much about hours,
conditions and pay!”
ij. V V
It was a week of theatre-going. Mar-
garet Rutherford at the Elizabethan gave
us a delicious performance as an eccen-
tric duchess, and we were a
fine example of Robin Lovejoy’s wizardry
as a producer—he has the delicate roman-
tic touch. To this first-night came French
Consul-General M. Bleuzet and Madame
Bleuzet, because the play “Time Remem-
bered” is by Frenchman Jean Anouilh,
and this was why the “Marseillaise” was
played before curtain-rise and caused one
first-nighter to say “Ah, ‘The Star-
spangled Banner’ —the guests-of-honor
must be Americans!”
* ☆ ☆
The first gathering organised by the
newly-constituted Sydney centre of the
International P.E.N. must have been
quite something. President Maysie Mur-
ray'Gfeig welcomed 70 guests to a feast
of reason, unreason, steak-Tartar, Hun-
garian goose, hilarious debate on “Are
Literary Critics Really Necessary” (by
Elizabeth Riddell, Josephine O’Neill, Eric
Baume, John Thompson and Edgar Holt),
general bonhomie, etc., at the Swiss Inn
at King’s Cross. The Sydney Centre of
the P.E.N., which is open to all qualified
writers, editors and translators, has open
arms for such at the moment. It looks
as though the next meeting will be a
“must.”
☆ * ☆
An interesting wedding at the week-
end was that of Helen Virtue, younger
daughter of the G. G. Virtues, of Lind-
field, to David Petherbridge, so well
known for his work with the “Men of
the Land” movement which he founded
with the late Mr. Justice Weir, David
is the son of Dr. and Mrs. W. C.
Petherbridge, of Petersham, and the
wedding took place at All Saints’ Church,
Petersham. The bride wore orchid-pink
lace with pleated organza, and carried
orchids. Her matron-of-honor, Mrs. B.
y. Mutton, wore smoke-blue pleated silk-
organza with guipure-lace; she carried
pink roses. Dr. Colin Petherbridge was
best man. Reception was at the Royal
Empire Society. Mr. and Mrs. Pether-
bridge will make their home in Sydney
for the present, but later intend to move
to David’s property at Tenterden, Guyra.
* ☆ ☆
The Penguin Club of Australia (which,
under the aegis of Mrs. Jean Ellis, trains
women in public-speaking) held its 11th
annual convention at the C.W.A.’s
beautiful new auditorium. The subject
under discussion was “How Time is Slip-
ping Underneath Our Feet” —the initial
point being made when the discussion
started half-an-hour late. However, it
was a very happy occasion, as are all
Penguin meetings. Mrs. H. R. Gourlay,
State president, reported that a new
branch had been opened in Canberra
(women just have to learn to hold their
own in that town of talk). Mrs. H.
McGarry came from Newcastle to be
one of the speakers, the others being
Miss Ivy Anderson, Mrs. R. H. Kaines
and Mrs. M. Lipson.
A June bride, Susan Potter is the
daughter of Mr. A. G. Potter, president
of the A.J.C., and Mrs. Potter. Susan
will marry George Bullock, son of Dr.
and Mrs. Howard Bullock, at St. Mark’s
Church, Darling Point. Photo by Norton
Trevaire.
When you go to see “Waiting for
Godot” at the Independent Theatre, don’t
let the initial shock decide you not to
wait any longer, for after a while you
get rather used to it and find it fascinat-
ing. Noticed that Dr. Cardamatis and
Mrs. Cardamatis moved back from the
front row after the first act, no doubt
influenced by Barry Humphries’s raven-
ous consumption of a carrot a couple
of feet away (and the further away his
feet were the better they would have
liked it). Mrs. Peter O’Shaughnessy, wife
of the clever producer and chief actor,
yvas there with her pretty mother, Mrs.
Frank Smith, also most of the Inde-
pendent’s regular first-nighters, including
Mrs. Leon Henry (who with her husband
sets-off for a “round the world in 40
days” trip in August) with Mrs. R. C.
Button, from Wellington (N.Z.), who has
been visiting Sydney for the past six
weeks.
☆ ☆ ☆
Anyone passing the Mosman Town
Hall one night last week would have
thought there was a gala-preview on to
judge by the red carpet and the banks
of sightseers and the excitement. The
occasion was the 10th annual dance of
the St. Aloysius’ Cadet Corps, and the
guests-of-honor were Brigadier and Mrs.
C. E. Chapman. Cadet Under-officer
Terry O’Sullivan (whose partner was
Roselind Bateman) welcomed the guests
with his mother, Mrs. R. J. O’Sullivan.
The official party included Colonel H.
Hind and Mrs. Hind, Colonel J. L. A.
Kelly, D. 5.0., and Mrs. Kelly, Brigadier
H. H. Edwards and Mrs. Edwards,
Colonel and Mrs. R. Honner, Captain
L. Skewes and Miss Skewes. Most of the
G.P.S. and Associated Schools were
represented, and the ballroom was a
charming sight with its bevies of pretty
girls (average age 17), and their well-
dressed, white-gloved partners.
•V # V
A little chinchilla jacket, the only one
in Australia, was shown at the cocktail-
party given at Prince’s by the Fur Trade
Association. Chinchilla is the most
expensive fur you can buy and has a
deep, soft, really cuddly pile in pale-
grey and dark-grey. They say film-stars
wear chinchilla, fashion-leaders wear
sable, but stage-stars can only afford
mink. They’ll shortly have to develop
an even more luxurious fur —for TV-
stars!
Noticed a number of socialites view-
ing the furs at this party: Mrs. J. D. K.
Roche and daughter Mrs. Michael Jones,
Mrs. Leonard Lewis with Mrs. A. A.
Alam, Mrs. Bruce McFarlan (who
thoughtfully brought her husband along
—a wise thing to do at fur-parades!) and
Mrs. Bob Mclnerney, in a lovely, wide
white hat with feathers cascading over
the brim.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Notable Firsts” may now include
laughing, refreshing Petre Munteanu, the
first Rumanian tenor ever to come to
Australia under the auspices of the
A.B.C. At the reception given for him
by the Symphony Orchestral Committee
he said he was very happy to find us “so
musicalisch.” If. was his first “discourse”
in English, and he was prompted every
now and again by Dr. C. Untaru, who
is Federal president of the Rumanian
Association, the members of which are
all, needless to say, going to hear Petre
sing at the Town Hall. Sir John Tivey
welcomed Petre Munteanu (pronounced
as written in four syllables), and Mr.
Charles Moses promised to introduce him
to Rugby Union.


Estab ! ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON *
qSUIUVAN
pTY LTD t
.*»5
T R A D M A R K
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STF.REOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
DECOY
By MAURICE DUNLEAVY
I COULDN’T help noticing
that the bike had been
tailing me for a long
way. Occasionally the
kid would accelerate, pass
my car and slew-in in front
of me. He would stick there
for a while, swerving from side
to side, lairising, then would
slow-down until I passed him.
1 could see him then in the
rean-vision mirror, leather-
coated, goggled, hunched low
over the handlebars.
A couple of times I
accelerated —I had the speedo-
meter needle steady on 90
for a mile or so—but he hung
on, then roared past me,
stayed there for a while, then
slipped back behind me. Every
now and then he would pull-
up level and race alongside for
a mile or two. He never looked
sideways at me but stayed
crouched down, looking
straight ahead. He was enjoy-
ing himself.
I tried to push him off into
the table-drain. He just dropped
behind for a while, then levelled
again on the next straight. I
tried it again and this time he
stayed behind.
Just outside Bathurst I
pulled into a little roadside
pub. I thought maybe I could
shake him off that way, but
just as I was opening the door
of the car I heard the bike roar
in behind me.
TTHE kid walked into the pub
with me, taking off crash-
helmet and goggles as he did
so. He looked to be about 17.
“Good night for driving,”
he said familiarly.
“Not bad,” I answered.
“Buy you a drink?” he said.
“No. I’ll get one myself.”
Plenty of cheek, I thought.
“Have one with me,” he
said. “Don’t drink with the
flies.”
Flies, I thought, can be
brushed off, but 1 could see it
would be no good trying to
brush-this one off.
“0.k.,” 1 said.
The bar was deserted except
for the barman.
“Two middies,” the kid said.
The barman looked him
over.
“You’re a bit young, aren’t
you, sonny?”
“Twenty-one,” the kid said.
“You got them beers pulled
yet?”
The barman shrugged
ironically. The kid ignored
him and turned to me. “You’re
Frank Payne, the bookmaker,
aren’t you?”
I could see what was coming
then. Other people had made
the same mistake.
“You picked a winner,” I
said.
He held out his hand.
“Langman’s the name. Fred
Langman.”
We shook hands.
“I thought 1 recognised you,”
he said. “I bought you a tie
one time.”
“Oh?”
“I done a quid with you on
Silver Circle at Randwick.”
“Too bad,” I said.
“You probably never noticed
me, did you?”
“Sorry,” I said. “I must
have had my glasses down.”
“That’s all right,” he said,
“I guess you don’t notice us
small punters. You’re right
among the big-time.”
“I can handle most bets,” I
said.
He pulled out a packet of
cigars.
“Smoke?”
“No thanks. Ulcers,” I lied.
“Couldn’t miss them when
you're handling big dough all
the time.”
I improvised: “It’s not the
dough, Buster. It’s the danger.”
“They try and get at you
sometimes,” he said, more as a
statement than a question.
“Most times,” 1 said.
“Now remember, you've got a wife and family to support
—not to mention a trainer and HIS wife and family."
TTE was impressed.
“I wondered why you
was hooting along so fast.
Do you think you ought to be
wasting time in here?”
“I was first away from the
starter,” I said.
“Do you think you can shake
them off?”
“If I beat them to the next
turn-off there’s nothing surer,”
I said.
“Why waste time, then?
Let’s get going.”
“1 like photo-finishes,” I said.
He took a sip, looked at me
with that patronising air he
had used when we first entered,
then drained the glass.
“Yeah, it’ll make it interest-
ing,” he said.
The barman picked-up the
empty glasses. “Same again?”
he said.
“Make mine a schooner,” the
kid said. He looked at me.
“How about you? You’ll
probably need it before the
night’s out.”
“I’m o.k. as I am.- I only
back winners.”
He handed me a beer. “You
got some place you can hide-
out around here?”
“One of my farms,” I said,
“I suppose you got two or
three of them?”
“F'our, and a couple of sheep-
stations,” I lied.
“There must be money in the
game.”
“A little,” .1 said,
He picked-up his glass and
looked at it philosophically,
“You know, I always wanted
to be a bookie.” He took a sip.
“But life gets away from you
before you can do anything
much.”
“It’s a rough game,” I said.
“I can take it.”
“Can you use your mits?”
“I knocked a guy so far once
he wore out two pairs of boots
walking back.”
“Shoot?”
“Knocked a fly off a vase at
a hundred yards without up-
setting the flowers.”
“You should do 0.k.”
“Thanks. I reckon I might.”
T LOOKED at my watch. “I’ll
have to be making the
jump again soon. They’d be
about ten mile away.”
“Getting close,” he said.
“Just making the turn into
the straight.”
He made wet rings on the


MW
9%
if «*
.... ■•:■:■
NV
MODERN, HEALTHY SANITATION
FOR THOSE LIVING
IN NON-SEWERED AREAS
it Self cleaning—uses no chemicals.
it The benefits of sewer In non-
sewered areas.
it Healthy and hygienic
it Modern pedestals in a range of
colours
it Designed to meet and comply with
N.S.W. Health Dept. Regulations
Healthy, hygienic, TROUBLE-FREE
SANITATION all the year round
with a Humes Septic Closet. You owe
it to your family—yourself-—to pro-
vide this modern system in your
home! Write now — or ring Ken
Williams at BX4165 for full details!
■mm-.
HUMES LIMITED
43 MARGARET STREET
SYDNEY. 8X4165
FACTORIES IN: Rydalmere, Adamstown, Grafton,
Lismore, Queanbeyan, Tamworth, Harden.
POST THIS COUPON
To HUMES LIMITED, 43 Margaret St., Sydney.
Please send —free and post free-—your Septic Closet leaflet
and three sets of plans for me to present to my local council.
Name...
Addrast —— ■ ■■«
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. .. .. 2fr
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
table with the bottom of the
glass. “I been thinking. May-
be I could hold them off for a
while and you could make a
getaway. Are they tough?”
“Shoot to kill,” I said.
“They don’t like you
much?”
“Not much.”
He considered this for a
moment. “Italians, I suppose?”
I nodded.
“They usually are,” he said.
He thought again for a
;whilc. “Automatics?”
“Sub-machines,” I said.
“They’re not out for jokes.”
“There’s no laughs in it,”
I agreed.
“What sorta car they got?”
“All-white, colors of the
club,” 1 said.
He nodded. “Bullet-proof,
I suppose?”
“Two-way radio,” I said.
“Souped-up?”
“Twin-carbies and the rest,”
I said.
I put on my hat and began
to walk to the door.
“I could pull them up and
put them on the wrong track,**
he said.
“It’s dangerous. They’ll
come after you when they find
you’ve double-crossed them.”
He patted his bike. “I can
look after myself.”
“They’re in a pretty fast
car,” I said. “Can that bike
shift?”
He put on his crash-helmet
and thrust out his chest. “Two-
twenty-six and a half for three-
mile, four-furlongs,” he said.
“I’m a moral for a runaway-
win in the straight.”
He turned his bike and rode
back the way we had come,
unarmed.
OACK in the bar, smiling to
myself, I gave the barman
a quid.
“When that man comes back
buy him a beer,” I said.
The barman gave me an
ironical grin.
“Man?” he said.
“Could be,” I said, still on
the tough-talkie sound-track.
“And have one yourself.”
"WHAT'S THAT?"
By “D. J.”
66 WHAT’S that?”
"" Those two words and
the question-mark are often
the start. For some odd
reason they seem to come most
frequently when people are
“just sitting down to dinner.”
Chairs are pushed back.
They open the door and run
outside and they stare while
their dinner gets cold. Often,
one of them thinks to ring a
newspaper about what he has
seen; which is where we
come in.
Here are two “What’s
thats?” come across reporting
for a Sydney daily . . .
The family was demolishing
crumb cutlets, their favorite
dish, and outside in Beacons-
field Street, Auburn (N.S.W.),
a cold, wet dusk was settling.
They heard a screech of
rubber, then a series of crashes
and a final crump that was
right on their doorstep. There
was a moment or two of silence
and then things started thud-
ding down on their roof.
Those cutlets never did get
eaten.
When the head of the house
opened the door they found
a heavy sedan on. its side on
what had been their front
lawn. Most of their fence
seemed to have disappeared,
the results were spectacular.
Something more than that, no
doubt, to the main actor.
This man, happy with the
world, bade his colleagues
good-night at the Hotel Bene-
long, in Beverly Hills and
set-out for home. As he
walked away from the pub he
filled his pipe and lit it. He
got it puffing satisfactorily and
tossed the match over his
shoulder into the stormwater-
channel that runs close to the
hotel.
Whoosh !
Moments later people all
along the two-and-a-half-miles
between Penshurst and Kings-
grove were saying, “What’s
that?”
With a running whoosh,
flames rose 40ft. into the air
along the length of the storm-
water-channel.
Traffic was halted for an
hour when black smoke formed
a solid smog across busy King
George’s Road, which runs
through that area. Everywhere
flames were belching up out of
They saw the car-driver
emerge practically uninjured
from the wreck. Police later
filled-in the details for them.
The car had hit one of those
channel-gutters they have in
some suburban streets —
hollows cutting across the
lesser street at an intersection
with a bigger street.
The driver did not know it
was there, and when he hit
it he bounced. Police
measured his flight at more
than 60ft.
When the car touched-down
again he lost control, struck
a concrete kerb and rolled
several times. He came to
rest on the family’s front
lawn.
The family were philosophic
.about it. “We should get a
new front fence out of it,
anyway,” was their attitude.
But they could not help
wondering what had happened
to their old one. The car
had certainly demolished it,
but where had it gone?
Well, they found their
fence!
In bits and pieces it was
on their roof. Hence the
mysterious thuds . . ,
The noise in the next one
was not very loud —more of
a whoosh than anything, but
gutters, startling innocent
pedestrians.
The flames blackened the
white bridges across the
stormwater-channel, and a
few back-fences, and the effects
were close to explosive in con-
fined spaces where the channel
went underground.
It all started a couple of
hours before over in Forest
Road, Penshurst, when a
petrol-wagon was filling the
underground-tanks at a service-
station.
Although the brakes were
on, and the wheels chocked,
the truck somehow rolled for
6ft. down an incline, just
enough to drag its hose from
the inlet to the underground-
tank.
Four-hundred gallons of
high-octane petrol went west,
pouring down the service-
station gutters, following them
into the stormwater-channel.
The bloke who unwittingly
lit the spectacular ribbon was
never traced. Maybe he’s
running yet.


his publisher might suggest for the
purpose of making an honest penny.
For that reason this reviewer
approached Camp b e 1 l’s Portugal
(Reinhardt) with suspicion: which was
very soon disarmed, for if it is a guide-
book of a kind, with even an honest
attempt to estimate the population and
with the astonishing information that
the Portuguese empire is “still one of
the largest, and perhaps the greatest
in the world today,” it is not like any
other guidebook but very much a
personal document, and a poetic one,
too. It is like a long, rambling,
vigorous, entertaining conversation with
Campbell—or, rather, a conversation
by Campbell—starting in Portugal
and shooting-off all round the world;
most unscrupulously but amusingly
digressive; too pugnacious to be smooth
in style; continually flagging into con-
scientious guidebook-writing and then
recovering into reminiscence; as a
whole thoroughly vital and charac-
teristic.
As soon as you have digested the
population of Portugal, and Campbell’s
championship of Salazar and fervent
affirmation of his belief in the miracle
of Fatima, you find yourself —for no
particular reason, except that it has to
do with his theory that Portugal was
originally populated by the Celts—
listening to the strange story of Fynn,
a western Irishman, and Dunn, a Low-
land Anglo-Saxon Scot, who became
Zulu chieftains and left “thousands” of
descendants:
The tawny-colored great-grand-
sons of Dunn are today distinguish-
able only by name: but even in
North Africa, in the War, amangst
the great-great-great-great-grandsons
of Fynn in the South African
Colored Corps, I recognised three
Fynns by their features and called
them by name: and they were quite
used to it!
As soon as you have learned that
nobody in Portugal ever drinks port—
and all about the wine-industry—you
find yourself reading about the affec-
tion the Romans had for the eels
called morays, which they kept as pets
and fed on disobedient slaves; and
so to modern England, which Campbell
never ceases to satirise: —
Whenever an empire is on the
wane, its decline is symptomised by
an exaggerated love of animals. Cam-
byses conquered Egypt by driving
a lot of cats, billygoats, dogs and
jackasses in front of his army, so that
the Egyptian archers dared not
shoot for fear of hurting the
animals. If a parachute army wanted
to conquer modern Britain they
would only have to land with poodles
and pekes in their arms: and no
one would fire a shot.
Campbell dramatised his differences
with the English Left-wing intellec-
tuals, of course, by fighting on Franco’s
side in the Spanish Civil War ; and
whatever may be thought about who
was right and who was wrong in that
exceedingly complex affair, it must
be said that Campbell’s honest pug-
nacity and indignation are wonderfully
refreshing. What other poet in the
whole course of human history has
settled his literary squabbles by
shooting-up his rivals with a bow-and-
arrows? Apparently, as he relates in
one of the countless Civil War
anecdotes that enliven this alleged
Portuguese guidebook, Campbell
actually shot George Orwell with an
arrow: that would have been, of course,
before Orwell broke with the
Communists:—
What made the Communist Inter-
national Brigade of English Reds
surrender at San Mateo (apart from
the Spanish Reds machine-gunning
them from the rear every time
they tried to run away, which was
pretty often!) was getting into their
trenches at night with double-thick,
short orangewood bows, speaking
English, pretending to be homo-
sexual (most Englishmen fall for
that) and letting them have it at
point-blank range with barbless and
featherless arrows, short enough to
bury themselves entirely... . When I
told Orwell, whom I had previously
wounded, he recognised the cause
of the panic. They were scared to
surrender to the Spaniards, but asked
to surrender to the Italian black-
shirts, a unit more sissified (if that
were possible) than their own.
There, winging the Left-wing with
his arrows, not quite like a modern
Cupid, it is tempting to leave this
most energetic of poets; but in justice to
his guidebook, which from time to time
really does mention Portugal, one
should add that there is a lot (with
great approval) about the Celts in
Portugal eating their enemies; about
how Campbell cured his diabetes with
stewed periwinkle (the plant, not the
shell-fish); about the admirable laxa-
tive and amatory properties of olive-
oil; about mermaids and gipsies; about
the amount of notepaper wasted in
Great Britain during World War II
(if that has anything to do with
Portugal); about the English worship
of “Saint Oscar Wilde”; about the
pedlar who made a fortune painting
eyes in the bottom of chamberpots;
about Australian bush-ballads; and, at
considerable length and with remark-
ably few digressions, about Portuguese
prose and poetry, especially Camoens,
who gave Campbell the inspiration for
his “Adamastor.”
MEMORY
He with the single eye behind twin
eyes takes all quick and curious things in
and in skull cave like Cyclops sits
quizzing his treasure,
turns and turns each image over
in his enormous hands and like a lover
with lock or locket will moan and
mumble
while in his eye the huge tears well and
tumble.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.
Television Plays
Though Paddy Chayefsky’s Tele-
vision Plays (Simon and Schuster) was
originally published in the U.S. in
1955 it is only recently that copies
have reached Australia in any quantity.
It is particularly interesting at the
moment as showing the sort of plays
that have been highly successful on
American TV—three of Chayefsky’s
scripts have also been made into films.
This book contains six original
Chayefsky scripts, including “Marty”
and “The Bachelor Party,” with
author’s notes on story-origins,
character-interpretation, direction, the
peculiarities of the TV medium, and
his own aims and methods.
Those who did not see the films
“Marty,” “The Bachelor Party,” or
“Wedding Breakfast” (not included
here), will need to be told that
Chayefsky and his directors practise a
restrained, uncontrived, painfully
accurate observation of ordinary lower-
middle-class Americans, which many
filmgoers have found most refreshing
THE COTTON-TREE
It’s — it's that old man of the sea, again ;
Shaved on the beach this morning . Curse
his beard,
Fouling the surf, tickling the girls’ knees.
Word
From the gulls might have told us;
plain
Their mission, even over the dunes.
Strong,
Too, that iodine-smell where his blade
Bit —the seaweed tossed up like whiskers,
long
And tangled and dank. What beauty has
made
Him undress his weird face, like the
moon;
Now Tonga is widowed, Polynesia
diseased?
So peaceful the sea looks and pleased,
Like love come lately ; while over the
dune,
l see her, now, the wild cotton-tree,
never far
From the beach; ever a flower in her
hair.
Q.
JOHN BLIGHT.


SONG OF THE SNAKE
By Eric Worrell
Eric Worrell, world authority on reptiles, gives a fascinating account of his adventures
with a camera in Queensland, the Northern Territory and the Arnhem Land Reserve; of
his work in collecting venom from tiger snakes and taipans for the Commonwealth Serum
Laboratories; studying reptiles and collecting specimens for his snake farm; studying
crocodile life history and hunting buffalo. Four pages of colour; 28 pages of black-and-
white photographs. 27/6 (post 7d.)
at all booksellers and . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
BIG SUR AND THE ORANGES
OF HIERONYMUS BOSCH
HENRY MILLER
Writing with contagious warmth and vigour, Miller shares his adven-
tures, thoughts, friends and passing acquaintances with the reader.
Illustrated
At all booksellers - - - 37/3
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
after the extravagant overstatement
and obsession with violence of so many
of even the best U.S. films.
“Marty” and “The Bachelor Party”
are the best of these plays, but “The
Mother,” a beautiful study of a com-
plicated mother-daughter conflict, runs
them close. Two earlier pieces,
“Printer’s Measure” (tender friendship
between apprentice and old compositor
is broken by commercialism) and
“Holiday Song” (a rabbi loses and
regains his faith), seem a bit too home-
spun and folksy, at any rate in script
form, though they might well make
good “viewing” if done by expert
directors and actors. They would
certainly be far superior to most of the
plays present reviewer has seen on
Sydney TV.
Here is the Chayefsky approach in
his own words:—
Our lives are filled with endless
moments of stimulus and depression.
We relate to each other in an
incredibly complicated manner.
Every fibre of relationship is worth a
dramatic study. There is far more
exciting drama in the reasons why
a man gets married than in why he
murders someone. The man who is
unhappy in his job, the wife who
thinks of a 10ver.... your father,
mother, sisters, brothers... . all these
are better subjects for drama than
lago.
He seems a bit in need of a lifebelt
there, as anyone does when theorising
about what makes good drama. No
such theoiy can stand up on its own.
It is only one man’s way, and to justify
itself it must produce good plays. In
Chayefsky’s case it has done this.
He has no illusions about the diffi-
culties the TV writer faces: the many
technical limitations, the social and
advertising taboos, “the innumerable
untalented and officious people you will
always find in a billion-dollar
industry.” But he believes that it is
TV, not the stage (“too weighty”) or
the movies (“too intense”) that can
most effectively portray “the wonderful
world of the ordinary”:—
for the writer there is still an
area for deep and unprobed
work... .This is an age of savage
introspection, and television is the
dramatic medium through which to
expose our new insights into our-
selves .... More and more, tele-
vision writers are turning away from
the slapdash activity of the violence
show and turning to the needlelike
perception of human relation-
ships. .. .jYou can write honest
dramatic literature for television,
rewarding to your sense of pride.
None of Chayefsky’s plays has yet
been produced on Australian TV.
J. A.
Play Prize
Judges appointed for the full-length
stage-play competition sponsored by
General Motors - Holden’s and the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust are Bruce
Grant (drama critic of Melbourne
“Age”), Hugh Hunt and Kylie Tennant.
First prize is £3OO and a bronze trophy-
designed by Lyndon Dadswell: the
winning play will be staged by the
Trust and, if suitable, broadcast by
G.M.H. Closing date is October 17.
Tom Collins House
When Joseph Furphy came from
Victoria to W.A. he built with his own
hands a cottage at Swanboume, now
called the Tom Collins House.
The trust of maintaining this painted
wooden building has been carried-out
by the W.A. branch of the Fellowship
of Australian Writers for nine years.
However, the burden of preserving the
property is becoming increasingly diffi-
cult. The Fellowship has therefore
established a trust-fund which will
be used to preserve the cottage for the
benefit of all Australians, as the
cottages of Adam Lindsay Gordon at
Ballarat, and of Captain Cook at Mel-
bourne are preserved.
The aim is to raise between £2OOO
and £3OOO. Members have already
donated over £l5O, as well as con-
tributing without fee to an anthology
to be published in aid of the fund.
W.A. Newspapers, Ltd., have donated
£250, and “Walkabout” magazine £2O,
and four Perth business-firms have also
given generously.
Although the major part of the fund
will be raised in W.A., the Fellowship
hopes that Australians in other States
will wish to help. The names of all
contributors will be inscribed in a book
to be placed with other Furphiana in
Tom Collins House.
Henrietta Drake-Brockman.
List of Periodical Holdings in
Special Libraries in New South Wales:
compiled by the N.S.W. Division of
the Special Libraries Section of the
Library Association of Australia. This
list, designed to help professional
workers locate “between one- and two-
million articles,” that “appear annually
in about 50,000 technical journals,”
comprises 307 pages, and includes
entries of the holdings of 52 special
libraries. More than 3000 periodicals
are listed. Copies are available at 10s.
a copy (plus 3s. postage) from Mr.
C. E. Smith, N.S.W. Film Council
Library, 61 Hunter Street, Sydney.
* * * *
The Imperfect Weave: Caroline
Rogers (Heinemann). A Swiss boy,
bossed and rather overwhelmed by his
family, marries an English girl, fresh,
free and light-hearted. The contrast
in their characters, the differences in
the English and the Swiss ways of
living, and the development of the two
personalities are quite well done. A
slight tale, but told with sincerity.


m-
Boy
are
we
busy!
keeping dp with
the demand tor
ADVANCED
x:
m
STANDARD
Pull in and fill up
with your choice of
The BENZOL Blends
BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED formerly The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited
