

The Bulletin
"School hy the River”— page m
Wednesday, September 24, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"I want you boys to keep this under your hat . If would be a bad thing for the
industry if we were to completely abolish the common cold."


BOOKS BOUGHT
We visit you in the City anti Suburbs
Immediate Cash Payment
Valuations made for Probate
BW 7874
(After Hours JY 1131)
BERKELOUW
114 King: Street, (Between Pitt and
Castiereagh Streets), Sydney.
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, 0.P.0., Sydner-
A service for readers. That difficult t
obtain volume, let us find it for yo u '7“f t i®r|
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderaw
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
MEMOIRS OF SCHOLARSHIP
Professor A. R. Chisholm’s Men
Were My Milestones (Melbourne Uni-
versity Press) is modestly subtitled
“Australian Portraits and Sketches,”
but it is really an autobiography.
There is the professor’s boyhood in
Dubbo, N. S. Wales, where —early
meeting the crustier forms of life —
he hobnobbed with snakes and blue-
tongued lizards and met, lurking in
his cave on the river-bank, “Old Mr.
Ross,” who had known better days,
had carved himself chairs and tables
out of solid rock and had a passion
for Latin.
Then there are his schooldays in
Sydney, first at Nimrod Greenwood’s
North Sydney Superior Public School,
where there was a great deal of whack-
ing, though not by Greenwood, and
where the visiting Presbyterian scrip-
ture-teacher, P. D. McCormick, was to
win an equivocal immortality by writ-
ing “Advance Australia Fair”; and
afterwards at Fort Street, where
Alexander Kilgour personally replied
to young Chisholm’s application to
enter the school and taught him Latin
with immense enthusiasm, even to the
extent of apologising to the boys for
giving them extra lessons on Saturday
mornings, without reflecting that he
was also giving-up his own spare time.
And so to Sydney University; and off
to Germany for a fantastic episode at
a cramming-school run by an Aus-
tralian, William Tilly, who crammed
the language, literally, into his students
with every mouthful they ate, so
thoroughly that at the end of six weeks
Chisholm was able to read Goethe’s
“Faust” in the original and follow it
through performances at a Berlin
theatre lasting from 7 p.m. till one-
o’clock in the morning; then back to
Sydney to begin a friendship with
Brennan, off to Europe for World War
I, back to Sydney for more Brennan,
and thence to Melbourne University to
take charge of the Department of
French.
But if it is an autobiography the
book is deliberately restricted to what
Professor Chisholm considers the
essentials of his life —scholars and
scholarship—and this at once limits
and enhances its appeal. Humane and
humorous as it is, portraying its heroes
as fallible human beings as well as
scholars, it is not likely to be widely
read by people looking for extremes
of color and sensation in an auto-
biography; on the other hand it will
obviously be of intense interest to any-
one connected with the Australian
universities and indeed with education
generally.
It has, too, some special value for
the literary world in its memorable
portrait of Christopher Brennan (this
chapter was printed, in a slightly
abridged form, in “The Bulletin”) and
in the most sympathetic study of
Randolph Hughes, who wrote a book
about Brennan and whose edition of
Swinburne’s novel, “Lesbia Brandon,”
Professor Chisholm praises very highly
indeed: —
I feel sure that some day, when
Australia properly assesses the worth
of its poetes maudits, as it has begun
to do in the case of Brennan, it
will be recognised that many of the
long notes in the Lesbia Brandon
volume are independent entities,
prose poems of a very high order,
written in an incomparable style and
with a sweep of imagination of which
only men of genius are capable.
Some of the men, in addition to
those already mentioned, with whom
Professor Chisholm deals at some
length are G. G. Nicholson, Carl
Kaeppel, Omero Schiassi, Maurice
Goldman and Sir Errol Knox; and
many other famous university identi-
ties—Mungo MacCallum, for instance
—are mentioned in lively incidental
references. It is a likeable, shrewd,
tolerant book, and its final effect must
be to give the reader a renewed respect
for Australian scholarship.
Sydney Store Murder
With Arthur Upfield’s detective-
stories, where the backgrounds over-
power the detection, may be put Mrs.
Pat Flower’s Wax Flowers for Gloria
(Ure Smith Pty., Ltd.), if for that reason
only; her detective is no Bonaparte and
her detection isn’t yet in Upfield’s class.
But as an account of the toilers in
a Sydney store (a store which does not
exist, in some unfashionable part of
Sydney) it is admirable. Mrs. Flower’s
analysis of the reasons why most of
the supervisors, and many of the under-
lings, in the store had reason to kill
Gloria, who had married the boss and
become a matriarchal dictator of the
establishment, should fill many who
have suffered the anguishes, frustra-
tions and jealousies of such big enter-
prises with that satisfaction which
comes from seeing their feelings stated,
if not avenged:—
At least we witness of thee ere we
die
That these things were not other-
wise, but thus.
Swinburne spoke of the “fiery jet”
of Tourneur’s verse; and, if Mrs.
Flower is no Tourneur (would not, one
imagines, want to be), “fiery jet” is
not too strong a phrase to apply to her
exposition of how things were in
Spinks’s store.
Gloria, using her lover to paint a
mural that could be used for advertis-
ing, signing him up on a bad contract
when he is drunk with liquor and love
at her Newport home, bullyragging a
supervisor with whom she had slept to
advance herself, stealing another chiefs
ideas; her ageing husband, solacing
himself with a kind and complaisant
girl he has taken from the counter and
installed in an Elizabeth Bay flat; the
junior partner with the ambitious wife;
the sleeping-partner who really rules
the roost —Mrs. Flower pours it out
until it seethes with the excitement of
a big store on a sales-day with bargains
in all departments.
As a first essay in detection it is not
bad, either. The murder of Gloria with
her head in a hair-dryer (in, of course,
the store’s own salon) is well con-
trived. But it takes a long time to learn
how to make a detective-story move
between the murder and the denuncia-
tion of the victim; and the series of
interviews, each exposing the lives of
the suspects, with which Mrs. Flower
proceeds, does not quite compensate
for that continuity of action, so that
something new is happening all the
time, which makes the really outstand-
ing mystery.
Danube and Murray
It is unusual for Australian poets to
write about Europe, for the very good
reason that few of them ever get there.
It is also unusual for those who do
get there to write well about it; and
the reason for that is probably that their
visits are too short. No doubt, unless
luck throws a poem into your hands,
you need to know the Danube as inti-
mately as you know the Murray before
you can really have anything worth
saying about it.
On both those counts Geoffrey
Dutton’s Antipodes in Shoes (very
attractively printed by Edwards and
Shaw) is, therefore, an unusual con-
tribution to Australian poetry. In i ts
(Continued on page 58)


m
m
u
\3
-ecc'
A —
3>tt
:A#S
ft
9
ELDERS CATER FOR TRAVELLERS
TO ANY PART OF THE WORLD!
This is Elders* special service to customers. We will
assist you, at no extra cost, in all your travel arrange-
ments. Every item is taken care of—itineraries, visas,
hotel reservations, taxation and health clearances,
passports, etc. For further information Phone 801 38.
BOOMERANG RETURN
Greatly reduced First Class fares are charged
between September and December to the U.K.
First Class from £3 1 5 # stg.
1 st/One Class from £265 stg.
1958-59 CRUISES
HIMALAYA— Hobart and New Zealand, 10 21 Dec.
ONE CLASS CRUISE
Sydney Brisbane Townsville Cairns. Return via
Hayman Island.
SAILING: 11 Oct., ’5B; 1 Nov., ’5B; 22 Nov., ’5B; 14 Feb., ’59.
Fares from £6B/5/-.
Sydney Melbourne Beauty Point Hobart' Sydney
SAILING: 16 Dec., ’5B; 30 Dec., ’5B; 13 Jan., ’59; 27 Jan., ’59.
Fares from £93.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE COMMONWEALTH
NENCO LIMITED. Newcastle.
Telephone: 80138 - - ELDER HOUSE
& PRODUCE CO. LTD., Sydney.
MOREHEADS LIMITED. Brisbane.
- . 9-11 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Sept. 24, 1958
Vol. 79—No. 4102
The National Australian Newspaper
‘‘Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adama
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
TRANSPORT FAILURE
nrHERE is no doubt that transport
A has become a major issue in the
Commonwealth, and between the Com-
monwealth and other parts of the world
which buy Australian products.
It will become more so as motot-
vehicles. which are-already in the pro-
portion of one-in-four per head Of
population, and will be, on present cal-
culations. one-to-one of adults by 1970.
increase further and the roads continue
to go to pieces under heavier and
heavier and more and more intensive
usage both for pleasure and commercial
purposes.
The gravamen of the complaint from
both sides of the Federal House during
the debate on the Estimates was that
there seem to be no concerted large-
scale plans. The seriousness of the
position and the stark clarity of its needs
were shown by the fact that Govern-
ment-benchers and Opposition fol-
lowers. who make it their business
never to agree with each other, were
forced to agree on the main facts. If
the speeches of Wentworth and Bury
on the subject as it affected general
principles had been substituted by a
printers’ error in “Hansard” for those
of Coutts and Bird across the chamber
it would have made little difference.
And if the unanimous feeling of public
opinion had been consulted it could
hardly have faulted the viewpoint of
politicians for once.
The fact is that the transport situa-
tion is getting out of hand. It is, as one
member; Mr. Howson, pointed out, a
project as large and important as the
Snowy Mountains Scheme, waiting
urgently-to be done, since it affects both
the prosperity and security of the
country and.costs in every avenue of
expansion and development. But all
that is happening is that a lot of money
is being collected from petrol and
heavywehicle and other taxes on the
carrying business for pleasure or profit,
and that a great deal of it is being
expended for purposes far other than
those which justify its collection.
Instead of being moulded into a
co-ordinated whole, transport is
mangled into an. inextricable tangle
without any core of common policy by
a host of authorities —Commonwealth,
State, municipal, county-council and
trade-unions, all at loggerheads with
each other in intention or viewpoint,
and 'all more-or-less engaged in
common war with motor-users for the
survival of the railway systems.
IMGBODY can agree what basic
modes of transport should be,
except the States, which are so
involved, with their uneconomic rail-
ways that everything must be made
■subsidiary to the attempt to keep their
lifeblood from leaking completely away.
Their deficits are chronic, and they
are in such a difficult position in some
States, notably N.S.W. and Queensland,
which have to maintain very long lines
and make very long average hauls, that
the Administrations look on other
modes of transport as the mortal
enemies of their suffering children and
seem to deliberately set-out to murder
them.
Per-ton-mileage taxes on road-
transport. regulations limiting the field
of road-transport, gross neglect of
existing ports, high port-charges and
failure to develop new ports which
would reduce the cost of carriage to
market of bulk produce, all contribute
to favor the railways. Yet these, even
under such circumstances of pamper-
ing. are unable to make headway. They
cannot keep up either with the need for
their own reconditioning, which in
some State's is desperate.
Under the influence of State railway
and road opposition, the coastal
shipping-trade is dying save for heavy
bulk freightage.
C|EA-TRANSPORT-has been the Cin-
derella for a long time because of
railway competition. Up-to-date figures
are not available, probably because no
Government wants them to be avail-
able. But the figures quoted by Mr.
Howson. in the House of Representa-
tives, touching the position in 1953-54
before the slide fairly set in, showed
why there was a slide developing. At
that time, even with the general-cargo
coastal trade on its deathbed'and the
business being rapidly whittled-down
to bulk cargoes, coastal shipping
accounted for nearly 50 per cent, of
the whole transport task of Australia.
The users of coastal shipping bore 95.8
p.c. of the total cost, and the Govern-
ment, by way of revenue subsidy and
otherwise, 4.2 p.c. Road-transport
accounted for 26 p.c. of carriage, and
Governments bore 7.1 p.c. of the total
cost. Rail - transport costs rail
accounting for 24 p.c. only of the total
—had a Government ingredient of
12.4 p.c., and civil aviation 0.1 p.c. of
the whole job—l 7 p.c. Government-
supported.
These figures were taken from the
report of the Australian Transport
Advisory Council, a body which has
no authority, and which, consisting of
the Ministers of Transport in the six
States presided over by a Federal
Minister, all deeply interested in rail-
ways, is scarcely the body to produce
any overall scheme of a modern
national character.
To provide a national system of roads
would be to make their usage inevit-
able over long-distance routes. This
would soon destroy the railways at the
rate at which the capacity of heavy-
duty road-transport is growing.
M ODERNIS ATI ON of ports is some-
A thing which is avoided, because,
inter alia, it would involve the provi-
sion of better getaways by road and
loading-facilities at the land-delivery
end. Improvement and initiation of
feeder-roads for the ports, or even for
railways, is little favored among State
Governments. The position regarding
it is chaotic, the financing of it even
more so. The one common feature
among all States in road policy is sup-
pression of competition with State
enterprise.
This viewpoint and purpose seems
also to extend to Senator Paltridge’s
Shipping and Transport Department,
which fosters the shipbuilding industry
and then holds it down while its throat
is cut. The 33 1/3 p.c. subsidy on
locally built shipping -is certainly
needed —and how! It is obviously not
sufficiently nourishing to keep the
industry properly on its feet. Most of
the shipbuilding of the past few years
in Australian yards has been done for
the Government, but the Government
is now selling r off some of its ships and
appears to be 1 only too glad to do so.
At present both road- and sea-
carriage are struggling against odds.
Ton-mileage taxes, constricting free-
dom of action and high labor costs
burden all private ransport, and there
is no scheme to rescue it.
Mr. Wentworth and his committee
recently did a very good job in sorting-
out the break-of-gauge problems on the
railways and made a valuable and prac-
tical contribution to Australia-wide
transport planning. When the new
Federal Government comes into office
it might do worse than renew the fran-
chise of that committee and hand it the
task of producing a long-term and
nation-wide plan in which rail-, road-,
air- and sea-transport can be dovetailed
with some estimate of cost. It may
take a long time to organise a plan,
and will certainly take a lot of money.
But anything is better than the present
Cutthroat chaos which is leading
nowhere save into the pit.


THE KISS OF DEATH
"Come on! Come on! Who’ll be the next to have his picture taken with the sultry lady to send to
the folks back at the Trades Hall?”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Bluff Called
President ' Eisenhower’s refusal to
receive the note from Khrushchev on
the Formosan situation, it being declared
“abusive” and “inadmissible,” brings the
world nearer to a third great war than
it has even been before.
The note was a culmination to
exchanges which had been going on
ever since the Middle Eastern situation
cleared-up and the Communist bloc
shifted its provocations to the Far East.
The whole of the events in China seem
to have been the result of a concerted
plan, the more dangerous because of
the weak moral position of the United
States in relation to the Chinese islands
close to the mainland and now in Chiang
Kai-shek's hands (by favor of the United
States Navy). The bombardment of
Quemoy followed the visit of Khrushchev
to Peking and the sudden and unnatural
collapse of Arab resistance to U.N. in
the Middle East, a series of develop-
ments which show that Nasser, Mao and
the Kremlin are all in the plot together.
As far back as September 5 Russia
plunged into the situation to warn that
it would deal a “devastating counter-
blow” if the U.S. intervened militarily
in the Far East, asserting that the
“adventure” in Formosa was a
“dangerous threat to peace following on
their [U.S.] shameless Middle East
aggression and one which has brought
the world once again to the brink of war.'
This set the tone of Russian communi-
cations, which included the assurance
that China in need would receive the help
of the Soviet Union as if the latter’s
own fate were being decided. There
seemed almost to be an implication that
Russia hacT been geared for world war,
but had changed its mind and decided
to produce a pretext which would assure
that China and its vast manpower would
inevitably be involved and had therefore
abandoned the Middle East issue for
the Formosan. The change had the
advantage that the issue of Formosa
might isolate the United States.
The tone of the Kremlin in two notes
from Khrushchev has been ugly and
menacing. The bombardment and the
massing of troops off Quemoy and Matsu,
the air-strikes and the bombardment by
heavy guns of Russian manufacture and
capable of using atomic warheads has
continued, countered by U.S. attempts to
get the matter to the point of negotiation
with assurances that the issue is not one
that should or need be settled by force.
China’s counter of an offer of the
Warsaw conference between Ambassadors
seemed likely to produce further discus-
sion, though still carried on to the sound
of shooting. However, this obviously
was merely a feint, and every provocation
was given to the United States, with the
greater gusto because of lack of world
sympathy for Chiang. American warn-
ings that atomic weapons would be used,
if need be, in certain circumstances
brought Khrushchev’s first note. In
answering this on September 14 President
Eisenhower remarked that he “regretted
to say I do not see in your letter any
effort to find common language which
could indeed facilitate the removal of
danger....on the contrary, the descrip-
tion of the situation contained in your
letter seems designed to serve the
ambitions of international Communism
rather than to present the facts.” He
noted also that “you have addressed no
letter to the Chinese Communist leaders
urging moderation upon them”:
If your letter to me is not' merely a
vehicle for one-sided denunciation of
United States actions, but is indeed in-
tended to reflect a desire to find a common
language for peace, I suggest you urge
these (Chinese Communist) leaders to dis-
continue their military operations and turn
to a policy of peaceful settlement.
Khrushchev’s reply was a lengthy
propaganda document demanding, the
“immediate withdrawal of all U.S.
Forces from the Formosa area,” 'adding
that “if the United Siates does not do
this now, no other,way will be left to
People’s China except the expulsion of
armed forces hostile to us from its own
territory.” It was followed by the threat
to retaliate against the use of . nuclear
weapons with nuclear weapons and
promise of a “fitting rebuff.”
This- was the note which President
Eisenhower has refused to accept as
“abusive and intemperate . . / replete with
false accusations . . . indulging in per-
sonalities and containing inadmissible
threats.”
The tone of the Khrushchev note sug-
gested the right of. Russia to police the
world. It was a clear-cut challenge and
ultimatum. There seems to be neither
chance nor ground for compromise
the light of .Mr. Dulles’s expressed defini-
tion of the Chinese Communist Govern-
ment’s proceedings as armed aggression
“attempting to extend its [Peking’s]
authority to these areas by the use of
naked force.”
War between America and Russia
would mean world war. There would be
no escape from it. The very fact that the.
United States has large military bases
in the United Kingdom and close alliance
with British Commonwealth .countries
would involve them in the danger of
attack immediately. And, in any case,
the Western world could not allow the
Americans, however they might disagree
with their policies, to go down, because
without American might the subsequent
fate of the rest would be a matter of
little doubt.
Bigger and Better Taxes
On the premise that the Victorian
Government had pledged itself to con-
tinue to foster a high rate of industrial
expansion and development, a wide and
sweeping blanket now used to cover any
expense whatever, Bolte made no excuse
for budgeting for a £ lE-million* deficit.
He explained to the Assembly that a
formal approach, aside from the Loan
Council, must be made to the Common-
wealth to pieet “our special require-
ments.”
Our special requirements were, of
course, the amount he proposed to spend
and did not have ; but he was able to
make a telling point in claiming that
Victoria could not be accused of bad
housekeeping since the increased depart-
mental vote was a lift of £3.9 million
in salaries and wages. The total depart-
mental vote of £ll2 million represented
an increase of only 4| per cent., com-
pared with a rise of 8j per cent., in the
Commonwealth Budget on departments.
-, Almost any comparable set of figures
by public authorities must be favorable
when put against the runaway vote in
Canberra for the bureaucrats, and the
astute brains in the State Treasury in
Spring Street have been quick to take
a propaganda advantage of it. The
melancholy fact for taxpayers is that both
Budgets have pleased the bureaucrats
more than any other section.
Taxes have been increased on in-
surance licence-fees,-hire-purchase agree-
ments, probate- and gift-duties, and there
have been increased votes for hospital
and health services, infant-welfare, mental
hygiene, the University youth organisa-
tions, and, as usual, the police. Land-
tax on dwellings in the country has been
almost abolished with the raising of the
exemption from an unimproved value of
£l5OO, and additional funds supplied for
country water-supplies.
A.A.N.A. Convention
The Federal talking-shop is up against
some pretty hot competition at the
moment —and on its home ground, too.
On. Monday about 100 advertising men
met in Canberra for the Thirtieth Annual
Convention of the Australian Association
of National Advertisers. The A.A.N.A. is
an organisation of 240 member-companies
who market their products on an Aus-
tralia-wide basis. The association claims
that between them these companies are
responsible for about 80 per cent, of the
national advertising expenditure of Aus-
tralian industries, with a total pay-out to
newspapers, magazines, radio, TV and
other media of something like £4O million
a year.
Since the welcoming address by Federal
president H. A. Allen, delegates have
been treated to fast-moving addresses on
various aspects of advertising, marketing,
publishing and broadcasting techniques.
The Governor-General was guest-of-
honor at the official luncheon, and
tonight (Wednesday) Postmaster-General
Davidson will be guest-speaker at the
dinner which winds-up the convention.
In all there will be 24 prepared talks in
the three days, in addition to discussion-
groups, so the P.M.G. will have an uphill
job if he tries to find an aspect of the
advertising game that hasn’t been touched
on.
A batch of delegates from the con-
vention having sat in the Gallery at
Parliament House and showed a keen
interest in the debating techniques of the
various speakers, it would not be sur-
prising if today saw an even bigger batch
of M.P.s trying to get into the convention
in the hope of picking up a few hints on
how to sell their case to the electors on
November 22.


Cancer and Basic Research
The belief pf so distinguished a research
scientist as Sir Macfarlane Burnet that
cigarette-smoking is the chief cause of
lung-cancer, possibly the only one, must
be treated with respect.
His view is that none of the solutions
proposed, including education, taxation,
prohibition and filter-tips, has yet proved
promising, but his gloomy outlook is
lightened by a belief that new approaches
in research may solve the cancer-problem
as they have solved the problems of
tuberculosis, puerperal fever, typhoid
and many other diseases.
There is nothing new in this viewpoint,
but there is novelty in his meditation that
the indirect approach in research might
be more fruitful than the physical and
direct approach of the cancer-clinics. As
he pointed out, when Roentgen found
his ray he had not the slightest idea
that he had produced something which
would do more for the curing of cancer
than any other agent so far devised. To
him X-ray was merely a method of seeing
inside people, not of curing them.
Other distinguished workers in the
cancer field have begun to think in the
same way as Dr. Burnet—indeed a good
many of them were thinking in terms
of biological and pathological research
before Burnet was born, and have looked
right back to the human foetus for
causes and aberrations that might pro-
duce the scourge.
The suggestion of the appointment of
a small commission similar to the Murray
Commission on the universities to
examine the status of fundamental
medical and biological research is a sound
one. Dr. Burnet expressed the opinion that
“eventually it will -have more impact on
human affairs than our present obsession
with physical science, and that grants for
cancer-research must go as much, or
more, to men working on academic topics
like the biology ofwiruses or the behavior
of chomosomes as to practical physicists,
because past experience has shown that
the indirect approach in science provides
the important advance.”
Burnet’s idea of financing such re-
search through a tax on cigarettes is,
however, not likely to be popular. A
little advance in the medical-benefit rates—
to provide for starved science might be
more to the point. Workers in the
existing fields, some of them obsessed
with machines rather than with basic
theory, have accomplished a great deal
technically, but they appear to be getting
nowhere in discovering the sources or
causes of cancer.
Though Dr. Burnet says that 90 per
cent, of accessible cases taken in time
can be cured, all this means is that the
treatment experts have invented a stick
with which they can knock individual
cancers on the head when they can see
them -and reach them.
They have not even approached the
point at which they can see a means of
eradicating the disease as others have
been eradicated. The loss of great talent
and experience in the ageing part of the
population is so enormous that the solu-
tion of the problem is worth a national
effort as great as the effort in physical
defence against outside enemies.
Cancer costs Australia more lives over
a generation than war.
Brisbane Transport
Following fast on public-transport fare
rises in Melbourne, Brisbane City Coun-
cil, faced with a record deficit of
£590,000, has announced a rise of Id. on
all trips, in the hope of cutting the loss
to below £400,000.
Unlike southern transport-undertak-
ings, whose deficits must be made-up by
Government assistance, Bris b a n e’s
Council-run system is subsidised by the
ratepayers of the city itself. Mounting
deficits thus mean less money for roads
and other essential works., Deficit for
last year was equivalent to 2d. in the
pound on general rates.
Justifying the fare rises, the first since
October, 1955, the Council claims fares
will still be the lowest of any capital
city. It argues that a recent 65.-a-week
vState basic-wage increase was the last
straw. Until then, economies made by
an outside firm of efficiency-consultants
had enabled cost-rises to be absorbed.
The experts finish a, three-year assign-
ment in December ; they’ll have received
a total of £85,000 in fees, and expect
to reach their target of a 'savings-rate of
£500,000 a year by that time.
Brisbane’s 400 trams cost 6s. Id. a mile
to run, and. lose 3d. on every mile, but
on the 251 buses the gap between operat-
ing cost and revenue is Is. a mile.
The last time Brisbane’s transport-
system made a profit was in 1948-49 ;
those days seem to be gone for ever-.
Profits 1 Benefits
“Free Enterprise,” a new illustrated
booklet, has just been published by the
Institute of Public Affairs (Victoria), and
it is a very good job indeed, dealing
graphically with the improvements in
living-standards under free enterprise in
the last 30 years.
I.P.A. invites companies in all States
to buy copies of the booklet for wide
distribution to achieve better understand-
ing of the great contribution free enter-
prise has made to national progress and
welfare. It will be sent free to schools
and other educational institutions.
The booklets graphs and illustrations
show the advances in Australia since
1928: volume of goods and services has
more than doubled; productivity per
employee over the whole economy has
risen 25 per cent, in each work-hour ;
and in manufacturing, productivity is up
50 per cent.; real purchasing-power of
the average wage has risen 60 per cent.;
standard working-week has been greatly
shortened and holidays lengthened;
social-service expenditure per head on
pensions, health and education has risen
800 per cent., and, allowing for price
changes, it has trebled ; 1,750,000 now
own or are buying their own homes,
compared with 750,000 in 1928.
Durable goods have, of course, shown
one of the marked rises. Nine per cent,
owned cars in 1928 and 17 per cent,
today, and the percentage of telephones
has increased from eight to 20 and of
radios from five to 30.
I.P.A.’s economists don’t say how they
arrived at the figures, but the figures
they did reach, taking Australia as a
base (100) for the average income per
head, are: U.S., 197, Canada, 138, U.K.,
82, France, 78, Argentine, 48, Brazil, 24,
Japan, 20, India, 6, and they point-out
the Australian progress has been due to
the productivity of the free-enterprise
system, competition and the search for
profit.
The Press Club of W.A.
[From “Bolivar”]
The Westralian slaves of the lamp have
never had a club of their own.
One or two attempts were made to
found a club, but they didn’t get very
far or survive for long, and back the
journalists went to The Dive at the
Palace.
The Dive remained their spiritual home
until about three months ago, to the
great advantage of the Palace and the
considerable discomfort of its more
inhibited patrons.
A breakaway movement initiated by
the “Daily ('We lead, others follow’)
News” found suitable premises, and The
Press Club of W.A. is now .formally
constituted under the presidency of one
who does not like being referred to as
“the Hon.” Gavin Casey.
The club had hardly got started before
it received a visit from the State Gover-
nor, Sir Charles Gairdner, a few days
before his departure for Britain on
holiday.
It is certainly unusual, if not unique,
for a club such as this to be situated on
licensed premises, but it- could hardly
have chosen better.
His Majesty’s Hotel is a fine, solid, old-
fashioned building with plenty of room:
it includes His Majesty’s Theatre.
The Press Club has the sole use of two
large upstairs rooms, one of which has
been fitted-up as convenient for recep-
tions, meetings or concerts.
Immediately adjacent is a well-
appointed house-bar which is already
taking on the necessary character.
Being part of the pub, the bar is
open to the general public as a matter
of course, but since the advent of those
whom the Governor referred to as
“gentlemen of. the press,” the general
public seems to have decided to go some-
where else.
In the distant future it is possible that
the club will get its own premises, but
at present the members are quite happy
with things as they are.
Visiting pressmen are welcomed, and
will soon find themselves at home.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
T didn’t think this kind of thing
could happen on Sydney's North
Shore line, where everyone is unutterably
respectable ; but ... it appears that
Mrs. A and Mrs. B, who don’t know
each other, rushed onto the train together
and by chance dropped into the same
seat and got chatting. Later in the day
they met by chance in the powder-room
of the Australia and were amused at the
coincidence ; and Mrs. B offered to hold
Mrs. A’s purse while she . . . ahem. It
occurred to Mrs. A, while she meditated
jn retirement, that it had been rash of
her to accept this offer ; she had a fiver
in her purse. Thus, Mrs. B was quietly
waiting when she emerged and even
asked Mrs. A to hold her purse while
she, in turn, retired. But Mrs. A was
still suspicious. She opened her own
purse, couldn’t see the fiver, opened Mrs.
B’s purse and there the fiver was!
Quickly she nipped it back into her own
purse . . . But when Mrs. A got home
and emptied her purse she .found two
fivers! And now she daren’t catch the
train any more for fear she meets Mrs.
B ; or find out who Mrs. B is and return
the money—she’d have to confess how
grossly she suspected her. She doesn't
know what on earth she can do. And I
don’t, either. —“Mac Hoots.”
❖ »:♦
“R.R.D.”: The centenary history of
the Staff College, just published privately
from Camberley, Surrey (Eng.), gives this
analysis of the fates of a batch of 32
officers who joined the college in January,
1896:
Killed in action, 4; died of hardship in
a theatre of war. 2; died before 1914 of
disease contracted abroad, 2; invalided
from 1914 war as colonels, 2; field-marshals
and peers of the Realm, 2 (Haig and
Allenby); generals and knights, 8;
generals decorated but not knighted, 6;
placed on the retired list for quelling a
riot by machine-gun fire, C(Dyer); joined
the Sudan Civil Service, 1; retired before
1914 on coming into money, 2; shot his
mother-iri-iaw and her lawyer and com- .
mitted suicide, 1; last heard-of keeping a
brothel in Smyrna. 1: [Total] 32.
Quo fas et gloria ducunt,
*i* ❖ ❖
“Maitri”: I’m wondering if those
responsible for the running of a famous,
denominational, “Ladies’ College” have
given-up hope. When I passed it the
other day 1 noticed that the sign near
the gate, “Ladies’ College,” had bieen
changed for another labelled: “School
for Girls.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jaybee”: The emporium was packed
during the lunch-time break, all and
sundry striving to, catch a glimpse of
Franquin, the hypnotist, making an
unpaid appearance to launch his book ;
purchasers assured of his signature on the
title-page. A rather attractive model,
“And do something about that bodgie haircut!”
after saying a few words about Franquin
and his book, left it to the mesmerist
to instil into each and every onlooker an
uncontrollable urge to rush up and buy.
Maybe because of mass-hypnotism, com-
plete silence followed Franquin’s
remarks, and in an effort to get some
reaction from his audience he suggested:
“Maybe someone would like to ask
Elaine (the model) a question.” Some
mild pushing and shoving ensued as a
red-faced woman, laden with parcels and
attended by two bawling kids, worked her
way to the front. Expectations rose.
Heads craned forward. The red-faced
woman spoke: “Where’ve they gone and
moved the toys to?”
❖ *** ❖
“Sunray”: Nelson Eddy may be a
back-number, but it was hardly kind of
our picture-theatre to bill him in
“Balalaika” next to a huge splash of
poster reading: “Back from Eternity!”
“Apemantus”: When a 14-vear-old
Fremantle football-fan spat at the
umpire, the Children’s Court did not
consider it lessened his offence that he
had missed and only hit a policeman—
he was put on six-months’ probation
and forbidden to attend football-matches
for the rest of the season.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ex Vee”: Before the branding of
lamb was compulsory in butchers’ shops
some very aged sheep passed under that
title. Having always been told that I
couldn't cook meat, properly or other-
wise, 1 blamed myself when the lamb
was tough. But one day the voice of
experience opened my eyes. Standing
admiringly in front of, a butcher’s shop
was a tali, sunburnt son of the land. He
gazed at the “prime young veal” and
“yearling beef” without comment, but
at the “fresh spring lamb” he laughed
aloud. “Lamb! 1 like that! Lamb, they
call it —with a shank like that!”
MASHLESS MURPHIES
“A Queensland engineer is planning to estab-
lish Australia’s first mashed-potatoes factory.”
Do you do potato-mashing
On regaining your abode
From a hard day’s labor, bashing
Out the sonnet and the ode ?
Your wife, she says, is weary
From the carpets and the suds:
“You’re a great, big, strong man, dearie —
Would you like to mash the spuds ?”
/
Does she stand around and mutter
In a voice as soft as silk:
“Do you have to waste the butter ?”
Or, “You’ve drowned them, love, in
milk !” ?
How often the potato
Is why husbands hit the track:
The last straw, as they say, to
Break the camel’s back !
Then you’ll understand the cheering
As the welcome news is flashed:
“A Queensland engineering
Man will sell spuds ready-mashed!”
Though the automotive fashion
Has disturbed the employee,
On potato-automashion
Very few will disagree.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


T’m told that the latest edition of
Brewer’s Dictionary of Phrase and
Fable gives “Wouldn’t it!” as an Aus-
tralian expression abbreviated from
“Wouldn’t it suit you!” Wouldn’t it! —-
“Oliver Filter.”
K* *I« *l*
“Joanne”: Can't someone tell our radio
and TV news-readers —most of them
Australians, surely—the correct pro-
nunciation of our placenames? One
the other night kept referring to Gipps-
land as “Jippsland.” Another, speaking
of the switching-on of power at Tumut
Ponds (Snowy River), called it “Tummit”
Ponds. To make his offence more heinous
(in my ears), he several times said the
cost of the power-house scheme was “one-
hundred, ten-million pounds,” in the
American tradition. But why drop the
conjunction “and”?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sanasi”: Months ago The Bulletin
pointed out that Alan Villiers’s May-
flower was a copy but not a replica—
add to the list: cataclysm, when no
water is involved ; bullet, when the
writer means cartridge ; shambles, when
there is no blood about; decimate, for
completely wipe-out (it means one in ten
only); and endorsement for a signature
on the face of a cheque. To your dic-
tionaries, taxation-men! And lurid —lurid
language or a lurid sunset is certainly
not ghastly pale, or wan, or gloomy, as
my dictionary has it! •
* * ❖
“O’Johnno”: Sinful webs . . . Two
men accused of having been unlawfully
on hotel premises took; the rap in a
Perth (W.A.) court after the police pro-
duced three pieces of cobweb and
exhibited them on a color-screen. Two
of the pieces were taken from the men,
the third from the cellar of the hotel
where one man was allegedly seen. All
three webs were similar, each containing
minute fragments of whitewash and coke.
The magistrate said it was too much of a
coincidence for the three pieces to secrete
the same type of dust and particles if
they were not connected in origin. Let
the lawbreaker pack with his jemmy a
good stiff clothes-brush.
❖ ❖ *l*
“Bellfield”: Heaven knows I have no
brief for bodgies, but it is noticeable that
the fellow who denounces the cult most
bitterly was the youth you recall as a
“jazz lair,” clad in Oxford-bags with
26in. cuffs, -freezer coat split right up
the back to the shoulder-blades, silk
shirt sporting black-and-white stripes at
least lin. wide, vivid tie with a
“horsey keep your tail up” kink in it,
and a green hat. Perhaps there is a
parallel in Bing Crosby’s press denuncia-
tion of “modern, rubbishy, trashy music.”
I am left with one fervent wish: to be
spared just another 25 years. I’ll die
happy after I’ve heard a middle-aged
gent, one Elvis Presley, deplore the
‘sensual muck that passes as music these
days.”
“Wandana”: A married couple charged
with 18 offences under the Hire Purchase
Act in Hobart (Tas.) had gone to several
companies that sold electrical equipment,
selected articles and paid deposits, and
then disposed of them to ready pur-
chasers at bargain prices. Eight radios,
a tablegram, three electric-shavers and a
couple of steam-and-dry irons were
among the stuff they collected. They
told the court they had thought it an easy
“For that loveby all-over complexion..."
way of making money for holidays, so
the magistrate arranged a free holiday for
them.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Sixtoes”: To attend the forthcoming
Pan-Pacific Scout Jamboree in Auckland
a party of about 50 Scouts from the
south propose to follow the canoe-route
taken by the old-time Maori fighting-
groups and land on the outskirts of
Auckland arrayed in the conventional
battledress of those stirring times. A
correspondent points out that this should
create considerable excitement, because
the Maori warrior went into battle
naked.
* * *
“Verre”: Opals, once said to be the
only precious stone that couldn’t be
counterfeited, have lately been on sale
in increasing numbers, and so cheaply
that in a chain-store I bought a hand-
some pair of drop earrings for 2s. ll£d.
I showed another chain-store bargain,
an opal brooch, to a jeweller friend.
“That stone,” said he, as he ran a finger-
tip over its iridescence, “is glass—with a
few colored chips under it.”
* ♦> *
“Miss M.”: While I agree with “Tidak
Makan” that differences between the
States consist more in calling things by
different names —selling oranges by the
pound instead of the dozen, and packing
strawberries in punnets instead of boxes
—than in accents, I do think there’s a
discernible South Australian accent. With
most individuals it’s so faint as to be
unnoticeable, but in a crowd of Crow-
eaters one seems to hear, in inflections
and vowel sounds, an echo of some
English county-accent. A marked charac-
teristic, which enables a South Australian
to be picked-out in any company, is the
inflection, ending on a sort of minor
note, with which he asks a question.
Many a serviceman, asking his way or
the time in some other State, was sur-
prised by the answer, “So you’re a Crow-
eater.”
“Imperial 55”: Husbands who try to
save on bootmakers’ bills by mending
their wives’ shoes are up against it with
the narrow spike-heels ; it is so easy to
split the heel when putting on the new
tip of leather. It happens when the
experts do it, too. A girl I know felt
something funny, investigated, found her
heel split, and sent the boy down to get
it fixed. The bootmaker said he wanted
the other shoe too, as it meant new heels,
it was all right sitting at her desk in
stockings, but a bit awkward when she
wanted to move round—and, anyway, it
was cold. She solved the problem by
putting her toes into her woollen gloves
and trotting round like that, but it looked
mighty odd.
♦♦♦
“Bo”: The subject of a summons
taken out by the firm of Sydney solici-
tors to which he was articled being in
the neighborhood of his own home, a
clerk offered to deliver it in person.
When a large, muscular and pugnacious-
looking fellow answered his door-knock,
the inexperienced clerk, instead of touch-
ing him with it quickly—thus establishing
personal service—and beating it pronto,
imprudently disclosed the object of his
visit. Whereupon the gent, with the
bulging biceps emitted a bull-like roar
and swept a haymaker which would have
been as effective as a shot of pentothal
had it connected. As the big bloke’s arm
recoiled for the next swipe the a.c. leaped
simultaneously backwards and to the
conclusion that loyalty to his firm didn’t


entail the collection of a brace of stinkers
and a bent conk. As he flew down the
path, with the infuriated summonsee in
hot pursuit, he decided against the closed
gate and veered towards the fence, over
which he sailed like a greyhound. Eager
to catch his airborne tormentor, the
aggressive one also rose to the fence—
there was a “Bang! ” like an outsize
carrot being snapped, and the would-be
inflictor of mayhem lay in the dust with
a leg quite unworkable and unwalkable.
“Pike T.” (Bahrein): In the Army
the gladiators of a battalion, the foot-
ballers, the boxers and athletes, always
"I Wouldn't be able to live if it Wasn't for the occasional
TV-aerial commission."
seem to get it easy in the eyes of the
ordinary, ungifted bloke in the rifle
company. While he does the guards,
the fatigues and escort duties, he sees
the gladiators jog gently back to barracks
after a road-run, shepherded benevolently
by the P.T.-wallah, who is sure they’il
beat the Ist Cherry-pickers next week
(and who always ensures they have piping-
hot baths and outsize, juicy steaks).
But the hard fact of life is that, in a
peace-time army, a unit good at sport
is considered a good unit. And perhaps
the gladiators should not be undefended.
I was amused to read in the London
“Daily Telegraph” how this slight prob-
lem was handled by a Mr. Arthur
Trinder, who last year at the Bank-rate
inquiry said his weekly turnover of bills
and stocks, as manager of the Union
Discount Company, was £l2O million.
When some of his staff became bitter and
twisted about a colleague getting a lot
of time off to play county-cricket, he
quelled the unrest by putting up a
notice: “All staff selected by their
counties can have time off to play
cricket.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Imperial 55”: Quite a few men of
my acquaintance have “grown out of
their hair,” have “very high foreheads”
or “fly landing-strips,” but the junior
receptionist introduced a new one the
other day when she told me there was
“an old-haired gentleman to see you.”
He did have a white thatch, too, and
laughed heartily when I told him about it.
*** <■*+
“Zake”: Another aspect of the whole-
some attitude of Charlie Macartney . . .
In a Test-match during his first tour of
England, in 1909, under M. A. Noble’s
captaincy, the “G.-G.” was fielding near
the wicket when a batsman named
Arnold came in to bat and, in passing
Charlie, nodded in a friendly way, where-
upon the little Australian genially passed
him the time of day. When Arnold went
after having scored only five, Monty
went across to the young fieldsman and.
said: “You shouldn’t have done that,
Charlie.” “Done what?” asked Macart-
ney, surprised. “Saying ‘good-day’ to
him,” went on Monty. “That was giving
him his five runs. He was as nervous as
hell up till then. He should have been
out for a duck!” Mac. was staggered.
“Is that how Test cricket’s played?” was
his comment. But he never could bring
himself to play it on that plane.
❖ *l* ❖
“Kate”: Young John, aged four, intro-
duced “bloody” into his every sentence.
His mother tried ignoring it; then she
strapped him, shut him in the bathroom,
washed his mouth out with soapy water
. . . Finally she issued an ultimatum ;
he was handed his cut-lunch and a small
suitcase of clothes and told that when
he gave-up swearing she and his dad
would like him back, but until then he’d
better go somewhere else to live. She
saw him to the gate and kissed him
goodbye, but an hour later he was still
sitting outside on the edge of the gutter.
“Well,” she said ; “you haven’t gone
far!” Tears meandering down his cheeks
he said, “I’ve got no bloody place to go! ”
THE NEW MATCHMAKER
“By placing a person’s characteristics in an
electronic-brajn the ideal marriage-partner may
now be selected; Out of 300 American
marriages made this way, no failures have been
reported.”
The man who can’t make up his mind,
Who gets quite frantic
Facing a problem he’s inclined
To deem gigantic,
May make selection of a wife
The simplest thing in all his life;
Dispensing totally with the strife
Of pangs romantic.
Science has now come to his aid
To pick for him the perfect maid;
A wife who’d be his all-in-all,
And one
Guaranteed not to nag or brawl.
If he’s uncertain —Joan or Jane ?
No cogitation
He needs. Just let him feed the "brain”
With information:
Vital statistics, voice-pitch, hair;
Bookworm, or lover of open air;
Inclined to favor joke or prayer;
Her occupation ;
What flavored lipstick she may use;
If she likes classics or the "blues” —
Synthetic brain is always right.
Oh, yes,
Provided the nuts are screwed-up tight!
He who would seek the ideal match,
Hold conjugal riches,
Should put his faith in wheel and catch,
In valves and switches.
Push-button warfare’s now been brought
To love. The lesson’s now been taught
That human judgment’s down to nought
Regarding hitches.
So put your quid into the slot
And jerk the lever. What’ve you got?
The feminine jackpot! You can’t miss,
Whacko !
You’ve bought yourself electronic bliss!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


School hy
the River
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
Other schools, including
some famous ones, are
near rivers, but ever
since I left there I have
had an irrational tendency to
think of Yanco Agricultural
High School as unique in this
respect. Partly, no doubt, be-
cause the river ran so inti-
mately through our lives there,
partly, perhaps, because that
river was the Murrumbidgee—
to my mind a very Australian
stream. It wanders, it has
many moods; and a rich
variety of Australians
aborigines, bushrangers, shep-
herds, drovers, shearers, swag-
men, squatters and commercial-
travellers—have camped by its
banks and told stories about it.
For better or worse, Yanco
was, and doubtless still is, an
emphatically Australian sort of
school —something which can-
not well be said of some not-
able local schools which, as
the English journalist Malcolm
Muggeridge remarked, give the
impression that they had been
picked up bodily in England
and dumped on the Australian
landscape ; gently adding (the
article appeared in the “Sydney
Morning Herald”) that imita-
tions of something else must
inevitably be second-rate.
Second-rate or not, such
institutions have been a force
in this country for so long
that most of us (lacking the
opportunity to compare them
with Eton or Harrow, Rugby
or Winchester) would not care
to damn them—and they have
turned-out distinguished citi-
zens in droves. Also, one
gathers from the recent remarks
of an English judge (“If you
were to try to level-up the
Public Schools to the standard
of sanitation, heating and
comfort to be found in Borstal
establishments today, parents
would be hard put to it to find
the necessary fees”), the aver-
age Australian Great Public
School must be well ahead of
the average of what it imitates
. in certain things.
There is a good deal to be
said for the G.P.S. system,
despite the opinion of Somerset
Maugham that it has outworn
its usefulness and is bound to
die within a generation.
The system seems to be par-
ticularly useful here in Aus-
tralia, because within its frame-
work outstanding headmasters
can modify, if not entirely
resist, recurring extravagances
of educational theory imposed
by the States, and there is no
immediate danger of the worst
features of the English system
•—a sort of Brahminism —
developing to any outrageous
extent. Partly, perhaps, because
over the years many country
Australians have given their
sons G.P.S. educations almost
as a matter of course, chiefly
because it was convenient to
send them to boarding-schools
(the usual alternatives were
boarding them in a town with
a high-school, or a secondary
education by correspondence),
and this utilitarian attitude has
modified the social emphasis.
And, by and large, an influx
of boys looking forward to
carrying on the management
of family properties, rather
than to carving careers for
themselves in, for instance, the
diplomatic service, has had a
similar, cumulative, modifying
influence on the schools.
Another reason is the con-
Another McCaughey homestead — Coonong, where Sir
Sam McCaughey first began irrigating land, and where
he bred many of his sheep. His importations of
Vermonts went to Coonong. The property is still in the
McCaughey family.
“The Old Building’ at Yanco — dormitories, sick-bay,
offices and the like —was formerly Sir Samuel
McCaughey’s North Yanco homestead.
siderable prestige of some
State high-schools—in N.S.W.,
Sydney High and Fort Street
come to mind immediately.
Yanco, in my opinion, is a
■*- good school, but it would
be silly to try to boost its repu-
tation by deprecating the virtues
of other good and better-
known schools, both G.P.S.
and State. In, for instance,
the production of distinguished
citizens —compared with, say,
Sydney Grammar or Fort
Street—Yanco simply isn't in
the race.
For one thing, it hasn’t the
turnover. The late Tom Mutch,
formerly Minister for Educa-
tion, officially opened the
school" in March, 1922 —which
makes it a mere babe as schools
go. For some years it didn’t
go beyond third-year, Inter-
mediate Certificate standard,
and the general pattern then
was for boys to go on to
Hawkesbury Agricultural Col-
lege, or back on the land, after
this examination. The first
Leaving Certificate class at
Yanco sat for their exams, in
1935. And at no time has the
school taken more than a com-
paratively small number of
boys.
Yanco is an unusual school
(in my time there the only
other school of the same type
in N.S.W. was Hurlstone, at
Glenfield, near Sydney)—a
boarding-school run by the
Education Department, and
teaching agricultural subjects
in addition to the usual ones.
Tt was possible to make
A arrangements for private
tuition, but in my day Latin
and Greek weren’t taught in
class, and I gather from a
recent school-magazine it isn't
taught there now. From a
strictly utilitarian viewpoint
the omission isn’t important,
even for those proceeding to
Arts or Law courses (matric.-
standard Latin or Greek can
be swotted-up in less than a
year, given the interest), but a
boy inclined to serious study
in the classics is obviously
handicapped without a solid
groundwork.
Similarly, contemporaries of
mine at Yanco who started
engineering found that their
maths, (through no fault of
their teachers) wasn’t up to
standard, and drifted into other,
less mathematically demand-
ing faculties such as medicine.
But, it may be objected, this
must be a funny sort of an
agricultural high-school—isn’t
it the object of such a school
to turn-out farmers? The
answer, in the best educational
tradition, is Yes and No. The
school did, in fact, turn-out a
good many farmers. But it
also turned-out a number of
people who chose other careers.
'T'here is, too, the question
of what parents want from
a school. Some want their sons
{Continued on page 56)


POLITICAL POINTS
The wheelchair vote seems to be
Labor’s contribution to mechanised war-
fare in politics.
• •
Complaining that in his last policy-
speech Cahill had promised to review and
reduce railway freights, N.S.W. Country-
party deputy-leader Cutler said the
Government had reviewed them, all right,
but had reviewed ’em up instead of down.
• a
New Staters in Central Queensland are
getting impatient and accusing the
Nicklin Government of stalling. Nicklin
says he’s waiting until the Federal com-
mittee on new States has submitted its
report, but the people leading the Capri-
cornia movement are asking for a
referendum early next year.
• a
Ward’s assurance to Reps, that his
statement on socialisation of banks and
farms in a television interview last week
had been distorted to misrepresent the
policy of the A.L.P. shows how history
repeats itself. In 1944 Eddie made an
almost identical declaration in Perth,
adding that if Australia were not
socialised immediately after the war he
would resign from public life. And, then
also, when his own leader became
embarrassed it turned out that his views
had been distorted.
e •
The agitation in Canberra and on the
South Maitland coalfields about the crisis
caused by the dismissal of miners due to
modernisation, sounds very much like an
Evatt-sponsored election stunt organised
in conjunction with Comrade Parkinson,
president of the Miners’ Federation and
the Watersiders, who sent 500 members
from Sydney to demonstrate in Cessnock.
For the past five years the industry has
been easing about 1200 men a year out
of coalmining, yet immediately before
the last batch went out at the beginning
of the month the statistical position
showed that there were 100 on unem-
ployment benefit at Cessnock and 58 jobs
on the Illawarra field that could not be
filled.
« ©
On a charge of driving under the
influence Taspnanian Deputy - Premier
Dwyer has been fined £lO and had his
licence suspended for 12 months. That
sort of thing couldn’t happen to Federal
Ministers. They’re all chauffeur-driven.
» ©
At the A.A.N.A. convention being
held in Canberra Nigel Palethorpe
delivered an address on “Journalism in
Relation to Advertising.” His theme was
that today journalism and advertising
form “a vast and shifting partnership” in
which both partners have big contributions
to make to each other’s survival and
prosperity. Claiming that in the modern
big-circulation newspaper the days bf
vigorous journalism when an editor’s
personality was expressed in every issue
are over, he told a story of a columnist
who was told by his paper’s general-
manager that he wanted a really punchy
column —a column that showed no fear
or favor and would come right out and
criticise freely and strongly anything the
columnist felt like attacking. “In brief,”
the g.-m. concluded, “don’t pull any
punches. But, of course, don’t offend
anybody.”
• •
“Stromlo”: Although the Doc. will
be making his policy speech before
the Prime Minister, he probably
won’t evoke any replies in the Menzies
policy announcement on October 29. The
P.M. has indicated that he will probably
make any necessary comments on Labor’s
enunciated policy immediately after the
event, thereafter making his own speech
a positive statement rather than a com-
ment on his opponent’s. His speech for
the radio audience must last exactly an
hour, and on his own calculations, allow-
ing for “a few misguided supporters who
applaud,” it must be 524- minutes multi-
plied by 115 words a minute.
Menzies admits that when he writes the
first draft he always ends-up with about
15,000 words. Chopping it is “the most
terrible job in the world, but it usually
improves the English.” Then, when the
final draft is counted, the top of each
page shows him what the time must be
at that stage if he’s on schedule. Menzies,
as usual, will write his own speech after
party and Ministerial discussion, but
there’s much speculation in Canberra as
to who will write Evatt’s. Will it be the
same bloke who wrote his Budget speech
so praised in Broadway publications?
• e
The technique of a “Meet the Press”
TV-interviewer, as given by Geoffrey
Johnson Smith, of the 8.8. C.: “There
may be no limit to what a politician
thinks he has to say about a given sub-
ject, but there’s a definite limit to the
amount of hot air his lungs can hold.
And so it’s his breathing habits which
have to be studied. So you watch the
moment his chest expands, watch it
deflate and then pounce with the next
question as he pauses to take in more air.”
• •
The Japanese are making no doubt
about establishing firm contacts in Aus-
tralia this time. Delegations arrive almost
every week —the last one from the Diet,
the next, to come at the end of the month,
a Japanese Government Trade Mission.
The Japanese Chamber of Commerce in
Sydney is going full-steam ahead, and
attempts by Japanese interests are
reported to be in progress to buy the old-
established Permanent Building Society,
a Brisbane banking institution which has
fallen on bad times. Apparently no offer
has yet been made for the Commonwealth
as a whole.
WHODUNIT?


George Adamski is coming to Aus-
tralia next year. He’s not thinking of
founding another Tattersalls sweepski,
but will lecture on “authentic men from
outer space” whom he saw landing in
New Mexico. And to prove it he’s
bringing a film of their arrival.
• •
Communist “Tribune” reported that
Eddie Ward told the Seamen’s Union
Convention, “If ever there was a country
which needed a Socialist Government
and a Socialist policy to ensure prosperity
it is this country.” Presumably this is
another case of distortion by the lying
anti-capitalist press?
• •
Example of the kind of thinking
induced in a politician by 17 years of
office. R. J. Heffron, N.S.W. Minister
for Education, referring to an Opposi-
tion move for a select committee to
discuss proposals for a new medical
school: “The only good committee is
a committee of three with two at home
sick.”
• •
Although the local wits were sceptical
when Calwell invited Santamaria to
stand against him in Melbourne, there
wasn’t overmuch brotherly love in Santa-
maria’s reply that any hack could win
Melbourne for Labor and if Calwell
wanted a fight there was one available
in Barton, wherefrom the Doc. had fled,
and where victory (if won) could earn
him leadership rights.
Calwell nurtures the Melbourne seat
so assiduously he wouldn’t leave even
to win Barton and spite the Evatt sup-
porters. The bigger the majority, even
in such a sitter as Melbourne, the greater
the prestige in the party —any party.
• •
Crawford, Country-party member for
Barwon in the N.S.W. Assembly, says
the Cahill Government made a bad
blunder when it cut-up Murgo and
Yallaroi estates for soldier settlement.
His criticism is that the land was classi-
fied as fat-lamb blocks, although it was
480 miles from Sydney and 200 miles
from the nearest market. The estates,
he says, are “in the centre of the richest
wheatgrowing districts in Australia, and
probably in the world ... it is not suit-
able country for fat-lambs.” Crawford
is urging the Government to increase
the capital of the settlers to enable them
to produce wheat.
• •
Cahill told a questioner he had
not yet received an official request
from the A.L.P. executive on the matter
of abolishing the Legislative Council.
His manner implied that the need to
consider the question would not arise
until he was approached officially by the
executive. Later in the day someone
must have approached him unofficially.
Anyway, next day he announced that his
Government would in due course act to
abolish the Council, adding that it did
not necessarily have to wait for “formal
presentation” of resolutions of the
A.L.P. But he gave no date for the first
move.
• •
“Mugga Way”: In Canberra, say some
disgruntled critics who live elsewhere,
money is wasted like water. In some
instances it's wasted in water. The Can-
berra Olympic swimming-pool, which so
far has cost only £203,062, now needs
another £12,000 spent on it for refiling
the main pool, because of leakage. The
pool, open only a few seasons, and used
only for about four months a year, has
required constant repairs and mainten-
ance, as well as refilling to make good
the loss of water through some undis-
covered hole. The “profit” last season
was £1220 —but before charges for
interest orr capital and depreciation of
assets had been taken into account.
o •
St. Kilda and Elwood residents,
alarmed at the proposal to end the
railways tram - service which runs
through their districts from St. Kilda
station, organised a cosy little public
meeting where they could denounce
Transport Minister Warner in good,
round terms. To their chagrin, Warner
turned -up— as a local resident, he
claimed —and stole their thunder by
explaining the service was losing £50,000
a year and the private buses he had in
mind would provide a better service.
It wasn’t the first time Warner had
turned-up at a meeting to which he had
not been invited ; once he arrived
for a private luncheon - party with
the Premier, although he had not been
asked, just to prove he is not a bad
sort, really. What can be done with a
disarming politician like that, except
accept him?
• •
Queensland has taken the lead in pro-
posing legislation to control union ballots.
The move is being opposed by the Trades
and Labor Council, but the former
Premier, Q.L.P. leader Gair, regards it
as the only way of breaking “the Red
stranglehold of unionism in Queensland.”
• •
Two cupfuls of synthetic petrol made
from Yallourn brown-coal have been
produced at the S.E.C.’s Melbourne
laboratory at Highett. A Yallourn (or
Morwell) plant is expected to produce
80-million gallons of synthetic petrol a
year within five years. About 401 b. of
brown coal is needed to produce each
gallon, and the synthetic product will
cost more than imported petrol. National
consumption is 200-million gallons a
year.
• •
Solidarity, it’s wonderful! An Opposi-
tion amendment to the N.S.W. Univer-
sity of Technology Bill sought to make
Newcastle the site for the proposed new
medical school. Clive Evatt (Ind. Labor)
and F. J. Purdue (Ind. member for
Waratah) voted for the amendment, but
the five Labor members for the New-
castle district obeyed orders and sup-
ported the Kensington site. Their votes
would have been sufficient to give New-
castle the school.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: In his progress from the
London School of Economics, through
private secretaryship to Dr. Evatt, top
.desk in External Affairs, brief High Com-
missionership in Ceylon, failure in Labor
preselection, profitable sheepfarming,
public relations and political theorising,
Dr. John Burton has contrived to keep
in the public eye. Still described as a
confidant of the Doc., he has now come
up with a shiny new policy for Labor,
with the nasty word “Socialisation”
dropped, and with the substitution of
some woolly phrase about the elimina-
tion of all forms of exploitation and
privilege, sectional or individual. He
has announced his opposition to com-
promise, admitted the absence in Aus-
tralia of an atmosphere in which
Socialism can flourish. Yet this junior
doctor’s remedy for Labor’s ills seems as
little likely to be effective as his senior’s.
• •
Parliamentary Liberals in Victoria have
decided unanimously to support Cabinet
in setting-up a royal commission to in-
vestigate off-the-course betting, to report
on its extent, its social problems and
remedies and the likely revenue for the
Government if it legislates for off-the-
course betting. There is no secret about
what the leaders of the Government and
the leaders of racing in Victoria want:
Bolte and Rylah as well as the V.R.C,
committee are out to get an off-the-
course tote —they'll have nothing to do
with betting - shops with their seedy
hangers-on.
• •
“Binghi”: Has there ever been an im-
partial investigation into the beneficial
or other effects of the various Christian
missions on native-life and native-welfare
in Australia and New Guinea? If not,
why shouldn’t there be one? Apart from
the impact of sectarian feuds on native
minds —a subject that should be examined
without fear or prejudice—there are
other problems. In the Queensland
Parliament Mines Minister Evans agreed
with Q.L.P. member A. J. Smith, that
mission-stations had failed in the care
and assimilation of aborigines. Smith
said that conditions at mission-stations,
which received annual grants totalling
£200,000, were “deplorable,” and that few
of the aboriginal-reserves totalling eight-
million acres were being put to proper
use.
• •
The revelation that of 200 houses in
a Yorkshire town 125 had TV-sets but
only three had baths is not necessarily a
reflection on the cleanliness of the occu-
pants. Rather is it a proof of their
canniness. Why waste money on some-
thing that’s only used once a week when
you can have TV every night?


PERSONAL ITEMS
With N.S.W. Country-party leader
Davis Hughes presiding and “Mick”
Bruxner handing over the presentation
at a Sydney Parliament House function,
the N.S.W. Parliamentary C.P. paid due
tribute to J. S. Gardiner on his com-
pleting 25 years as its private secretary.
New Zealand-born, Gardiner was
educated at Fort Street (Sydney) and
Sydney Grammar, then gained his
diploma at the Wagga Experimental
Farm. With the 12th Light Horse in
War I, he afterwards took to journalism,
and then became an
active Country - party
organiser and cam-
paign - director about
the Upper Hunter. He
was also closely associ-
ated with Sir Earle Page
in boosting the North
Coast, and worked hard
and effectively as
general-secretary of the
Northern N.S.W. and
Southern Queensland
Travel Promotion and
Development Associa-
tion.
• •
Until recently captain
of the Orontes, C. W.
C. Pinckney has just
retired from the Orient
Line. He started with
the 8.1.5. N. Co. and
joined the Orient in
1929 as fourth officer
in the Orvieto. During
the war he was in com-
mand of H.M.S. St.
Dominica and later was
a commodore, coastal
convoys. He was Com-
mander of Dockyards, Colombo, 1945-46.
« o
Kicked-off by Geoffrey Armstrong,
Legacy Week in Melbourne got away
to a good start with £lO,OOO contributed
towards the £BO,OOO wanted to carry-on
Legacy’s growing work ; the organisation
has 250 members who lend a hand when
needed to the 3000 Victorian families
bereaved by war. Armstrong, who directs
a bedding-company for profit and cheer-
fully goes in for breeding and racing
horses for loss, was a p.-0.-w. in Java
for more than three years, being then
a flight-lieutenant in the R.A.F., although
a Melbourne man.
• •
R. R. Johnson, of Umaria, Grenfell
(N.S.W.), has won the 1958 pasture and
fodder championship in the central
inland zone of N.S.W. Second was A. L.
Ryrie, of Euromedha, Narromine, and
third, D. J. Wharton, of Innisfail, Forbes.
He'll make you a saddle which you
won't better anywhere in the world ; or,
if you want anything connected with
horsemanship, you can find it in his store
in Cunningham Street, Sydney (it runs
between Goulburn and Pitt Streets). And,
apart from his lifelong trade, J. P. Talty
is also an authority on the bush poets
—in his 83 years he’s met and talked to
most of them. Rare books and bindings
are another of his interests, and he can
tell you about those that were offered
CRAFTSMAN
when the library owned by A. B. Triggs,
of Yass (N.S.W.), was auctioned.
Lahm’s sketch shows him with some
of his tools of trade around him ; there
are many more. Talty will stoutly deny
that saddlery is any more a dying art
than poetry. There’s a lot they’ve got
in common.
• •
When Arthur George Pinches called
in at The Bulletin office it wasn't
difficult to identify him as “5 G.R.” (he
also contributes under “Snips”), because
he was wearing a Gurkha Brigade tie.
Born in Victoria, he joined the old sth
Battalion, A.1.F., and went to Gallipoli
(twice wounded) and then to France
(where he was commissioned and again
wounded). He’d served alongside
Gurkha troops on Gallip., so when he
got an opportunity of joining the Indian
Army in 1918, he went to 5 G.R., which,
fully interpreted, signifies the sth Royal
Gurkha Rifles (Frontier Force), serving
with them in Afghanistan and Wazinistan,
with rare visits to the depot at
Abbottabad in the North-west Frontier
Province.
Retiring in 1926, Pinches came to
Melbourne and joined the Herald and
Weekly Times Co.’s advertising-staff.
Except for his recall for service in War
II and a period when he went back to
Bombay in business, he’s been ever
since Melbourne “Herald’s” outside rep.,
and a contributor to The Bulletin in
his spare time. (His first contribution was
written from the Khyber Pass in 1919.)
• •
Williamstown (Vic.) has elected as
mayor a Port Phillip pilot, Captain S. J.
Benson, who served his time in sail in
Bass Strait schooners and was 15 years
wffh the Adelaide Steamship Co. before
joining the pilot service in 1949 —he's
still on the job as a pilot. With the
Navy in War 11, he became Lieut.-
Commander, was twice mentioned in
dispatches and received the Royal
Humane Society’s medal for saving the
life of a seaman who fell in the drink
off Madang—Benson, at the time skipper-
ing the corvette Kiama, dived overboard
to rescue him.
■ •
“W.N.P.”: The death in Sydney at 64
of Father Thomas Noel Burke-Gaffney
takes from the Jesuit ranks in Australia
one of their most brilliant members.
As director of Riverview College
Observatory, Sydney, he won inter-
national respect for accuracy in locating
earthquakes from seismograph recordings
and for his discovery that H-bomb blasts
could be detected by these instruments.
He wrote numerous scientific papers, and
one, written in conjunction with Pro-
fessor K. E. Bullen, is acknowledged as
responsible for the world’s first experi-
ment (at Nevada, U.S., last March) in
underground atomic blasting—a potential
means of shaping the earth for our
peaceful needs and seeking its wealth.
Born and ordained in Ireland, Father
Burke-Gaffney became senior science-
master at Riverview in 1928. Old Boys
of the college, including the present
writer, will remember him best for his
great strength of character and charm,
and as a naturalist with an uncanny
ability to tame wild creatures, and an
unorthodox teacher of physics who used
improvised and ingenious devices for
illustrating complicated principles.
• •
Signed-off at Thursday Island for a
long-leave spell and retirement, Malcolm
Lindsay (“Tom”) Weeks, of the Over-
seas Telecommunications Commission,
enlisted as seaman in the R.A.N. in 1911,
trained as a radio-telegraphist in the old
Yarra, then joined H.M.A.S. Melbourne
and was present at all her engagements
in the Kaiser’s War. His first peace-time
job was to set-up and operate the radio-
station for block 10 Mining Co. on
Misima (Louisiades); then (in 1924) he
transferred to A.W.A. coastal radio and
served at all stations on the East Coast


network from Hobart to Samarai, becom-
ing a station-manager in 1927. Transfer-
ring to the O.T.C. when it took-over the
beam and coastal radio services, he
rounded-off his 47 years in communica-
tions with four years at Thursday Island.
• •
Frederick Hinton, 12 years Patrol
Officer at Perth Airport, qualifies for the
famous Club (if there isn’t such a club
there ought to be) of Those About Whom
There Has Been Mark Twainian Exag-
geration! He qualified in these “Personal
Items” of August 27 —an item about him
sent from Westralia having been misread
and sent “Into the Silence.” Those who
have met and been helped by him over
the years will be glad to know that
Frederick Hinton is going strong, and
has simply retired from his Patrol Officer
position.
9 9
Not every politician combines idealism
and sincerity with unswerving faith in
the future. Vernon Christie, the Vic-
torian M.L.A. for Ivanhoe who’s lead-
ing the campaign to keep the Yarra
Valley green, possesses those qualities
and as well stands tall, erect and four-
square. So that his appearance shows
immediately the type of man he is.
Christie (pictured) holds to the
philosophy that all will be well. He
resigned from the managing-directorate
of Webb Industries to devote his time to
politics when he was elected for Ivanhoe
(which ought to be, but never has been,
a safe Liberal seat) with no apparent
qualms about his financial future. A
pleasant, forthright speaker, he isn’t
heard much in the Assembly, because
shortly after he was elected he was made
chairman of committees. Growing-up at
North Steyne (Sydney), where he was
lifesavers’ captain, he worked later in
M.L.A.
the outback for Australian Estates Co.,
chiefly in Queensland, and learned a lot
during the war from the late Sir John
Storey with tire Beaufort bomber.
• •
“R.R.D.”: One of a party of five
C. officers who visited the Australian
forces in Malaya (B. 3/9/’5B) was Major
D. Wade-Ferrell, of Sydney, 2 i,/ c.
17/18th Battalion. Wade-Ferrell, a
front-line man (M.C. at Bougainville),
enjoyed the jungle-patrols, but he has a
word, too, for the backroom boys—•
cooks, storemen, medical-orderlies, etc.
“A” Company, 3rd Battalion, has its
operational base at Lasah, in Perak State
(Malaya). Here C.Q.M.S. Les Stand-
ford, of Sydney, and storemen L.-Cpl.
Geoff Matheson, of Chadstone (Vic.),
and Pte. “Spike” Wellsy, of Perth, are
responsible for feeding and clothing 200
men' of the coy. and attached troops.
Cooks are Cpl. Rick Evans, of Sydney,
Ptes. Bruce Kennedy, of Liverpool
(N.S.W.), and “Rusty” Draper, of
Boolaroo, near Newcastle (N.S.W.), who
act as butchers, too. (It’s a shade warm
cooking over a wood-stove in the
Malayan climate.) Another of them is
medical-orderly Cpl. Frank Munt, of
Adelaide, on call 24 hours a day while
the company’s operational.
e •
“El V.”: Leonard Badham, Q.C., appointed
by the N. S. Wales Government to inquire
into charges against the police, might be
described as a barristers’ barrister. Descendant
of one of the world’s greatest classical scholars
of the Victorian era, self-effacing and modest
about his own capacities, he is held up among
bis fellow-seniors as a model in the practice of
lucid, fair and dispassionate advocacy. It is
surprising that a man so long and so high
at the Bar, and involved in so many complex
causes and inquiries, should be so little
publicly known; equally surprising that one so
naturally gifted to be a good judge should have
escaped promotion to the Supreme Court Bench,
which he undoubtedly would have adorned with
absolute impartiality and unruffled calm and
informed with a deep legal learning and know-
ledge of men and the world. He has led, in
effect, four lives —one as a schoolmaster, one
as a journalist, a third on active service in
World War I, and a fourth in Phillip Street,
where he inhabits Barton’s old chambers. His
last long Government job was the timber
inquiry a few years ago, and it is characteristic
of him that he threaded his way through an
immense maze of conflicting evidence with
deadly efficiency and without a single clash
large enough to excite the daily press.
• •
The rule on (he Sydney Harbor
ferries may be: “Don’t speak to the
captain while the ship is under way.”
But if you keep it too rigidly you’ll miss
a lot when James Ireland is at the wheel.
Pictured here looking what he is—a sea-
man who knows and loves his craft—
he has spent all his life afloat, and 45
years as master makes him the senior
in the Sydney ferries. Knowing every
iun from the Show-Boat to the Cremorne-
Mosman trip, he is used to the Harbor
in all its moods. In fact, when given an
office job as Superintendent Master he
could stick it no more than a fortnight
and then asked to go back afloat. Salt-
water is in his blood, so it’s not surprising
that when he retires he intends to live
FERRIES
in a house he’s built at Coustar’s Retreat,
across from Palm Beach.
• •
A biography written by Alan Mitchell
and being published this month by
Harrap should make interesting reading.
The subject is Matthew Banks, now a
specialist in plastic and reconstructive
surgery with a Harley Street practice,
and still, at 59, flying his own plane and
playing golf off a handicap of six.
Born in Sydney of Scottish parents
(his grandfather had commanded full-
rigged ships in the China tea-races),
Banks studied surgery under Sir
Alexander McCormick before he began
a medical career in the outback.. He’s
had a varied and eventful life since then.
It was through his influence that the
late Prime Minister of Iraq proposed to
establish a Chair of Plastic Surgery in
Baghdad.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Adelaide, at 41, Dr. Alan Percival Cherry,
of Largs Bay (S.A.), struck by a car while
attending an accident-victim at Seaton. He
was a member of a family of doctors well
known in the Port Adelaide district.
In Sydney, Alfred Randell, W.A. represen-
tative on the Australian Board of (Cricket)
Control. He had been on the board since
1946, and was in Sydney attending its annual
meeting.
In Sydney, at 91, James A. Hall, grazier,
formerly of Willeroon station, Cobar (N.S.W.);
he had met Henry Lawson and “Banjo”
Paterson and was known by most of the
bushmen of their day.
At Little River, Canterbury (N.Z.), at 91,
William Hugh Montgomery, oldest surviving
member of N.Z.’s Parliament and a contem-
porary of Sir George Grey. He practised as a
barrister and solicitor.
In Brisbane, at 79, Alexander Russell Kelly,
managing-director of Engineering Supply Co.
of Australia until his recent retirement, a local
director for the National Bank and chairman
of the Royal Insurance Co. of Queensland. He
hailed from Airdrie, Scotland.


ABORIGINALITIES
T izards and goannas are both plentiful
J - y and hungry just now here in the
N.T. On a road-survey I saw about
eight species within a few hours, among
’em the little three-incher that curls his
tail in the air; the Bin.-to-10in. bloke
who pauses and waves his left fore-limb in
a salute ; and the comical chap who runs
erect on his hind-legs in Chaplinesque
style. I disturbed a handsome frill-
necked fellow, who took to a broadleaf-
gum and froze just out of reach. His pro-
tective coloring was perfect, his 6in. frills
simulating a bunch of dead leaves, his
body blending with the bark. At 10 paces,
unless his presence was known, he would
have been quite unnoticed. The job
completed, I was winding-in the five-chain
measuring-band when, with all but 40ft.
on the reel, I felt a tug, and there was a
3ft. go. with a mouthful of the leather
thong on the end. I took the tension
again, but he decided to play, and took
it bush. The match was short. I got
my chain band and he got his bootlace.
Hope he enjoyed it. —“S’Alligator.”
* * * *
“Metax”: Business in fishing-grubs is
brisk in some Tassie towns. Prices are
up to a shilling each, and farmers are
complaining that trespassing grub-
hunters are wrecking their best wattle-
trees to get their supplies.
* * * *
“White Gum”: While 1400 people
were swapping yarns at the back-to-
Kanowna (W.A.) celebrations 94-year-old
“ Righto, Mrs. Mulrooney, it's a deal. I'll let you use the aerial
for half the eggs."
Archie Loveless, from Kalgoorlie, was
pottering round the old ghost-town doing
a little prospecting. In the rubble of an
old house he found two small nuggets
of gold, worth about 30s. Kanowna was
a boom-town 60 years ago ; there were
sensational happenings, the most notable
that of Father Long’s “sacred nugget.”
A party of miners showed the priest a
sickle-shaped piece of gold, told him it
was a nugget, gave him details of the
locality, but pledged him to secrecy
regarding their identity. He gave the
news to thousands of excited miners and
a rush followed, but no gold was found.
Possibly the priest was the victim of a
hoax, and the “nugget” was smelted gold
from a mine.
* * * *
“Myall”: On the night of March 23,
1911, while on a voyage from Bowen to
Townsville (N.Q.), S.S. Yongala—crack
passenger-ship of her day—disappeared,
without trace of either wreckage or the
120 souls aboard. From time to time
there have been claims that the wreck
had been discovered, but actually her
fate has remained one of the greatest
enigmas of Australia’s sea-history.
Recently, however, two Townsville men,
Bill Kirkpatrick and Joe Hartland, found
what they believe to be the lost ship
lying in 16 fathoms about 12 miles off
Cape Bowling Green, some 110 miles
north of Bowen. In a five-day survey
they ascertained that the dimensions of
the wreck correspond with those of
Yongala. They intend to exploit the
wreck for anything of value, and perhaps
further investigation will disclose whether
it really is the ill-fated ship.
* * * *
“Piketrailer” (Cyprus): As an exile
from the Kelly country (Benalla, the
jewel of the Broken River!), where the
crossbreds come from, I was somewhat
shaken to read in the Wool Issue (B.
28/5/’5B) that wool has been at “its
most depressed level for nine years.”
Obviously, this is yet another indirect
blow from Duncan Sandys, whose
165,000 British Army by 1963 means
less uniforms (and the amalgamation of
my 200-year-old regiment with another!).
However, I am sure the graziers of
Wangaratta, Yarrawonga and Hamilton
are a long way from the tricky position
that the old Zulu farmer in Deneys
Reitz’s No Outspan found himself in
with his wool during the depression. A
white trader had sent a bale of the old
Zulu’s wool to the coast, and had found
that, due to low prices and high railway-
rates, the transaction ended in a net loss
of Is. 6d., which he paid. When the
unfortunate owner of the bale came to
THE INTRUDER
He stood at the windmill-pump watching
a sparrow
fly with a length of straw locked in its
beak
up to a nest piled carefully in the cave-
trough,
how it shifted to meet the wind, as if to
seek
an undercurrent to lift the fluttering
feathers
along the gradual incline to the nest
with its furious little power, swinging over
to lay the golden straw about its breast.
From stack to cave and cave to stack it
journeyed,
oblivious of the eye that marked its
flight,
moved by a sense the watcher felt
beholding
that simple shelter raised against the
night.
He knew it must come down. Perhaps
tomorrow
spring rains would wash it closer to the
spout
and clog the trough, and he would climb
the ladder
to grasp the soggy straw and fling it out.
The cistern must be filled, he would be
saying,
hearing the sparrow scream and the dull
thud
and the remembered hum of trucks with
property loaded
inching their annual way along the mud.
N.S.W.
PAL CLEARY.


J
re***™**
f eer
,f&A
e&f ***■
of
■lack 0r
fucfiy
(j e ‘ r neW-Mmref"


inquire, the kindly trader, wishing to
soften blow, added that if he was
given a chicken they would be all square.
The next day Jim, the old Zulu, turned
up with two chickens. The trader said:
“But, Jim, one was enough—why do you
bring two?” “Well, you see, baas,” said
the old Zulu, “I’ve got another bale of
wool outside for you to send awa-y!”
* * * *
“Miss M.”: Long ago a schoolmate
taught me never to contradict those who,
like “L.E.W.” (B. 3/9/’5B), assert that
all tortoiseshell cats are females. Having
argued with childish persistence, but in
vain, I invited the young authority to
my home and pointed to our two
“Gosh, you gave me a start, Molly! I WISH you Wouldn't do that
to me in here!”
identically - marked kittens, with a
triumphant, “There, I thought you said
. . .” Picking up the nearer of the two,
Betty gave it an expert glance and said,
“But it is a girl.” Smugly I came back,
“But look at the other one.” Another
swift examination, then, “But he's no*t
tortoiseshell, he’s ginger !" The last word,
for my money—then and ever since.
* * * *
“Kinta”: C.5.1.R.0. scientists who
will design and build the £500,000
phytotron at Canberra —it will be one
of the most modern in the world—
describe it as “a factory for man-made
climates.” To be used for research into
commercial plant-problems and for deter-
mining the optimum conditions under
which plants will grow, it will be a
200 ft. glasshouse, containing about 200
cabinets, each of which can be operated
independently to simulate any desired
climatic conditions, such as effect of
wind on plants, frosts, humidity, sun-
light, artificial daylight, and simulated
nightfall. The phytotron is scheduled for
completion in 1961.
/''vld Jacky Howe would be rocked if
he could see how the modern shearer
fills in the time after he has “voted ’em
out” (wet). No “swy” or interminable
yarning. Instead, a mob of them, still
in their “greasies,” -playing golf on the
big claypan beside the huts; or a
potential Hoad hitting-up against the
kitchen wall. The only thing smacking
of the past is the old babbler’s remarks
as he views these profane proceedings.
—“Weakstaple.”
* * * *
“Fair Mac.”: An acquaintance bought
three pairs of African peach-faced love-
birds and caged them temporarily in a
large aviary already containing two cock-
budgerigars—his experience as a budgie-
breeder telling him that cocks are not
belligerent, although nesting hens are
fiendish fighters. When his wife gave
the alarm that one of the budgies was
fighting the new birds—African love-
birds, nearly twice the size of budgerigars,
cost £8 a pair—the aviculturist didn't
delay. He found a budgie with beak
hooked in a lovebird’s. Fighting? Not
a bit of it! The little-’un was indus-
triously feeding the young but fully-
grown lovebird, regurgitating the food
in the way budgerigars feed -their chicks.
As an act of mercy tfie budgie was
removed from the cage—before his six
o.s. foster-children could work him to
death.
* * * *
“Hortus”: Is it his vivid color-scheme
that gives the scarlet robin ascendancy
over nearly all the smaller fry in the
bird-world? His sudden presence cer-
tainly causes a great hurry-scurry among
the finches, jacky-winters, wrens, tits and
others that swarm down each morning
to pick-up the crumbs we throw to them,
and they all stand respectfully aside while
he and his milder-cblored mate have their
fill. There’s often a ding-dong battle
royal between the red, black and white
artist and a jacky-winter, but the result
is always the same. He is on equal
terms with the willy-wag and not over-
awed even by a maggie. As pretty a
picture as you’ll see in the garden in
early spring is a scarlet robin darting
among dark-.green -citrus foliage, the
beautiful orange-red tints of the
hypericums and the reddish-yellow
flowers, of-the winter Christmas-bells.
* * ' * *
“Lillydale”: In this sap-up sap-down
argument, could “Jarrah Jerker” (B.
3/ 9/ ’5B) be misinterpreting the variable
sap-flow of his vines as a variable sap-
content? Year-round core samples
augered from white birches at Jacobstad,
(Finland) showed equal sap-content in
flaming June and frozen January, and
that should be northerly enough for
“J.J.” and his exploding flora. The
freezingest stint I ever did was at
Chesuncooic (Maine, U.S.), tapping sap
from sugar-maples in February. That
was real winter, and if the sap was down
then, we simmered an impressive
galionage of imaginary syrup.
* * * *
“Flight”: Hawks, crows, falcons and
other predators aren’t the only ones
attracted by smoke from bushfires. Here
in Queensland the blue-martins are the
-first to answer the call, going for the
grasshoppers and other insects which,
dazed by the smoke, make easy prey
for them. An odd thing about the
martins is that, though small, they employ
the same technique of grabbing by thrust-
forward claws as do the falcons ; then
at the last split-second they revert to the
beak as the weapon of attack—an indi-
cation, perhaps, of an evolutionary
change.
* . * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: A committee is to
investigate the medicinal properties of
Westralian flora, and two species I’d like
to see included are binghi-cabbage and
pitun. The cabbage —can’t say I ever
heard its scientific monicker —is a north-
west plant which 30 years ago was con-
sidered a certain cure for the skin com-
plaint called barcoo-rot, and it seemed to
be effective. I’ve known badly affected
stockmen from the Gascoyne stations to
camp on hill-country where the cabbage
~ grew and wait for it to reach the right
stage. Pituri is an inland plant with a
small, cup-shaped flower and thin leaves.
The natives mixed the dried leaves with
gum and ashes and chewed it.'" It’s a
narcotic, and they also threw the branches
into soaks to stupify game drinking there.
WHEN DUCKS TAKE-OFF
When ducks take-off
coming this way the lagoon
fires a broadside at me,
a white cordite crash
at water-level and five
bullet-bodied live-shell
ducks whistle over my head.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


Drifting in a flattie over a pool on
the Barrier Reef, and gazing through
a waterscope at coral growths, I saw
enough of a nylon fishing-line entangled
in the coral to make a salvage-job worth
while. Submerging, I found that yards
of line were overgrown by large lumps
of coral, while loops of it in many places
were actually formed into natural neck-
laces of grey- and red-spotted coral.
Nylon line being a comparatively recent
invention, it couldn’t have been under
water for longer than five to ten years ;
which seems to be at variance with the
scientific claim that the growth of coral
is so slow that time is meaningless.—
“Amdee.”
* * * *
“Ex-Quiz King”: Actually, the Marie
Celeste was neither lost nor found (B.
27/8/’5B). It was the brigantine Mary
Celeste (282 tons, Benjamin S. Briggs,
master), that was the subject of the un-
solved mystery. Conan Doyle origi-
nated the misspelt' “Marie” in an
imaginative magazine article, “J. •
Habakuk Jephson’s Statement.”
Hi % % Ht
A A
“C. Coral”: Not fishing-rights (as in
Iceland) but sealing-rights led to, bad
international blood in Australian waters
in the early days of last century. Vessels
working out of Sydney were making good
catches in Bass Strait off the Furneaux
Islands when American skippers began
to cut-in. One of these was Amasa
De Lano, who with his brother com-
manded the vessels Pilgrim and Per-
severance. Among the complaints to
Governor King was one from Joseph
Murrell, master of the. sloop Surprise :
he accused the Americans of bashing him
up with clubs—anyway, his right arm
was broken in three places. The upshot
was that King prohibited foreign vessels
from obtaining a clearance for the
" It's for the new bloke — Bruno. He likes wine with his meals.”
“Even if it is spring-time, you needn't get so sentimental about it.”
sealing-grounds of Van Diemen’s Land,
and disallowing foreigners to reside in
the colony without special permission,
on the grounds that they were depriving
Britishers of a livelihood and also con-
niving at the escape of convicts to
supplement their sealing-gangs.
•P
“Shamuseen”: The launch was chug-
ging steadily along through a dead nor’-
west monsoonal calm when the spirit-
stove on which I was cooking bacon and
eggs in the cabin exploded, setting fire
to a fuel-can, curtains and other impedi-
menta. In the blazing confusion, during
which it appeared that the launch might
go-up at any minute and thus force us
to take to the dinghy, one of my Torres
Straits boys, with great presence of mind,
and in illustration of the adage that
where there’s no sense there’s no feeling,
seized the blazing stove and hurled it
astern, where it landed fair-square amid-
ships in the trailing dinghy, which would
have been our only means of escape had
we not managed just in time to beat the
fire out before it reached the main fuel-
tanks.
i? * * *
“Agricola”: Riding down a drought-
parched creek I sighted a goanna that
had caught a catfish among some gibbers.
He had most of it down his gullet, head
first, but the tail stumped him. So he
backed off and made for a big stone.
One wallop and, the fish-tail no longer
cluttering-up his mouth, he waddled away
to digest it.
* * * *
IDocky Ned must have long since gone
to the place where there are no
flank-ropes (his age was given as 33 when
I last saw him, in 1939), but his memory
is still revived every now and then by
radio-cowboys nasally asserting that
“Many have tried but none could ride
the outlaw, Rocky Ned.”
The statement is not wholly correct;
Rocky Ned was ridden successfully
several times by Thorpe McConville’s
son. When there were no candidates
for death or glory, the lad sometimes
took the ride, stayed with the screaming,
twisting fury for about seven seconds,
then jumped off.
The showman’s son, of course, had the
advantage of knowing the outlaw’s every
trick, but one Timmins, a noted horse-
man around the Mungindi-Moree
(N.S.W.) area, defeated Rocky at the
second attempt. Even when blindfolded
Rocky Ned never allowed a rider to get
set; the moment a' leg went over his
back he went into furious action. At
the first ride Timmins was caught with
one leg under a rope and was thrown.
On the second attempt, however, he
survived the first mad plunge as. he
struck the saddle ; then went on to ride
the outlaw right out.
Timmins was killed in a fall from a
horse later, his stirrup-leather failing to
pull clear.
MACKVILLE.


MT. MARTHA AUCTION
SAT., OCT., 11. 3.30 P.M., AT ALBERT STREET
<2 Doors from Alice Street)
NORWEGIAN ARCHITECT DESIGNED COUNTRY VILLA
WITH TENNIS COURT, VIEW OVER BAY
Cornpr.: Magnificent livingrm 28 x 18 ft., with large stone> open
fireplace; sunroom, 25 x 10; ,4 Bedrms., with 8.1. Robes. U-Table,
Bathrm., Shower rm„ Int. and Ext. Toilets. Excellent Iv tc ~
Breakfast Alcove, seats 7; H.W.S., Dble. Garage.
1 ACRE LAWNS, GARDENS & NATURAL SETTING
Sprinkler system. Interior walls selected knotty pine. Beautiful
Norwegian Wrought Iron Light Fittings.
IMMEDIATE VACANT POSSESSION
CAMPBELL HOGG & DAUGHTER
VILLAGE, TOORAK—B J 2714. After Hours, Mr. Dane, IVB 1770
ALASTAIR W. MACDONALD
(MEMBER OF THE SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney Telephone BL 1504-5
CENTRAL BANK REVIEW
T>r. H. C. Coombs, chairman
of the Commonwealth
Bank board, in his report for
1957-58, remarks that during
the year many countries found
that expanding investment plans
and strong internal demand,
and in some cases speculative
capital-movements, were caus-
ing a strain on their foreign-
exchange reserves. Measures
were introduced to deal with
the internal inflationary posi-
tion and at the same time to
protect reserves. Official dis-
count-rates were raised and
monetary and fiscal measures
were used to .restrict credit and
demand. Import-quotas in a
number of countries were inten-
sified, and some large drawings
from the International Mone-
tary Fund and borrowings from
other international lenders were
arranged.
“It was in this general situ-
ation, and no doubt partly as
a result of it, that commodity
prices sharply declined, severely
affecting the export earnings
and reserve positions of
many raw-material-producing
countries.”
The self-induced recession in
the U.S.A. also affected world
trade and commodity prices.
And the tight-money policies
of most countries, including the
lifting of the Bank-rate in the
U.K. to 7 p.c., aggravated the
position caused by a more
abundant supply of most raw
materials in the world’s markets
(though not from drought-
affected Australia). Tight
money brought a contraction in
commercial demand through
the running-down of manufac-
turers’ and traders’ stocks. This
was particularly obvious in
Britain.
Explaining how the central
bank met the changed circum-
stances of the year in Australia
(very different from those which
were commented on in the
previous year’s report), Dr.
Coombs said that “central bank
policy is designed to enable
banks to meet the current
reasonable needs of - the
economy for bank-credit for the
purpose of ensuring the full
use of resources.
“There are still no specific
"No, no! Please! We’ve HAD one on your expense-
account. Let’s have one on mine.”
restrictions on bank lending,
except for the extension of
hire-purchase and instalment-
selling. With this exception,
banks have full discretion con-
cerning the allocation of
advances for different pur-
poses. However, they have
been asked to continue to give
particular attention to impor-
tant activities such as housing
and rural industries.
Employment
“At present the main con-
cern of central-bank policy is
with employment, and its aim
is to assist in keeping expendi-
ture high enough to maintain
employment at a satisfactory
level.
“While at present, in a
period of falling commodity
prices, an expansion of bank-
credit to support the domestic
economy can be justified, the
effect on the balance-of-pay-
ments cannot be ignored.
“If export prices rise this
may not be a problem. If
they remain depressed, the
drain on international reserves
will continue, and we cannot
then go on indefinitely hoping
for-a rise in prices to restore
balance -of - payments equi-
librium. Our reserves are not
unlimited, and the further they
decline the more necessary it
becomes to take corrective
action.
Balance-of-payments Deficit
“On present indications, a
substantial balance -of - pay-
ments deficit can be expected
in 1958-59, and it is important
to be prepared to meet this
situation if the hoped-for im-
provement in export prices does
not occur.
“Severe import-restrictions,
like the use of reserves, are
temporary alleviations ; . they
do not solve the problem but
merely provide time to make
the necessary readjustments. If
they are continued too long
they lead to distortions in the
economy and an uneconomic
allocation of resources.
“For a permanent solution
we must look to a larger flow
ofssavings and increasing pro-
ductivity reflected in decreasing
costs.
“Productive investment is
one of the basic conditions for
realising higher productivity
and lower costs. The invest-
ment required is not only of
a private nature, particularly
in export and import-replacing
industries, but also in the pro-
vision of basic services through
public works.
“If this investment is to be
made and the continued
growth of the economy
assured, then adequate savings
must be available. Except to"
the extent that capital-inflow
can help us, the continued
development of the Australian
economy is, in fact, dependent
on a high and growing rate of
real saving.”
The Bulletin agrees that
real saving is the only source of
indigenous capital in Australia.
And this is no discovery of the
past year. For atjeast a decade
it has been emphasised in these
pages that' in Australia there
is not enough productivity, not
enough saving, not enough
profit fqr industrial expansion,
not enough capital-creation,
not enough investment.
Nor will these shortages be
overcome merely by financial
or Budgetary management,
though these can be designed
to assist. The fundamental need
is for a higher man-hour out-
put in relation to wage-costs—
for a fair day’s work for a
fair day’s pay, both judged in
relation to the competition we
have to meet overseas.
Until we do achieve higher
man-hour production and
lower costs in secondary
industries we shall continue to
be carried, with some lack of
economic balance, on the back
of the sheep and other efficient
beasts of burden in Australia
so long as they can carry us.
It has been high prices for
the products of our more
efficient industries that have
masked our industrial defici-
encies up to now. At present
export prices the mask has
become somewhat threadbare.


J. T. HARRY & DIXON
(Eric E. Dixon, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
113 Pitt. St.,
Sydney
Telephone: BL 1987
Tel. Add.: ‘‘Harry Stock Exchange,” Sydney
SAFE
INVESTMENT
Of
'ifoa/i, money
V
■' . /
mm
vm?.
Security of capital and a regular income are
assured when you invest your money on Interest-
Bearing Deposit.
There are higher interest rates now offering
on other types of investment, but prudent people
think twice about interest rates in relation to
security. Safety of capital and a reasonable
return make Interest-Bearing Deposits an attrac-
tive investment.
V
Interest-Bearing Deposits with the Bank of
New South Wales are secured by the substantial
resources of Australia’s oldest and largest trading
bank, with assets exceeding £500,000,000.
Rates of interest at present are:—
3| % per annum for 24 months
2|% per annum for 12 months
2| % per annum for 6 months
2j % per annum for 3 months
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Oldest and largest trading bank in Australia
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5827C
Sharemarket Comments
Touring the past week the
phenomenon of a buoyant
sharemarket at a time when
wool prices (and some other
export prices) have dropped to
their lowest level for nine years
(with costs up prodigiously in
that time) has drawn comments
from two well-known Mel-
bourne authorities.
The first was the National
Bank of Australasia.
In its “Monthly Summary”
for September the National
Bank comments tha't, unde-
terred by weakness in the wool
market, investors have partici-
pated strongly on Australian
Stock Exchanges, and share
prices registered small but con-
tinuous gains throughout
August. The demand for good
equities, it continues, shows
no sign of diminishing, and
there are indications of increas-
ing support for progressive
issues offering attractive yields.
Also, interest in an already
strong share market was
heightened late in August by
good preliminary trading-
figures ftom many companies.
“Basically, the strength of
our sharemarkets in the face
of a disappointing opening to
the wool season — and one
which does not augur particu-
larly well for the 1958-59 over-
seas balance - of - payments —
—appears to be confidence in
the continued growth of Aus-
tralia.
“A further important
strengthening influence is that
we have so far weathered the
impact of lower export prices,
largely associated with the U.S.
recession, without a serious
internal business setback. One
interesting factor would seem
to be growth of tele-
vision in Australia, which has
perhaps been helpful in its
timing, in providing an im-
portant new productive and
trading activity, just when
something like this was wanted
most.
Technical Changes
“The current strength of the
sharemarket may also have
gained from a technical change.
over the last two or three years,
in that a higher proportion of
business capital is now being
found in various ways from
the market as compared with
the amount of capital formerly
provided by the banking
system.
“In the result, it is heartening
to see that, at least as regards
confidence in the future, the
Australia of 1958 seems better
able to withstand the influence
of adverse overseas trends than,
perhaps, eyer before. Of
course, we could not expect to
remain for long far out of step
with trends in - the major
Western nations, but again,
fortunately, there are more
hopeful signs abroad now than
a few months ago.”
The second authority was
Mr. Staniforth Ricketson,
chairman of Australian Found-
ation Investment Co., Ltd., at
its annual meeting.
“Perhaps,” said Mr. Ricket-
son, “the most gratifying
feature of the Australian scene
is the confidence manifested by
investors. Even when the most
pessimistic forecasts were being
publicised, the ordinary-share-
market held surprisingly firm,
and, over the last few months,
its strength has been greater,
possibly, than at any previous
time in history.
“This buoyant market illus-
trates the manner in which the
views of all classes of investors,
both large and small, institu-
tional and individual, find
expression through the free and
open public Stock Exchange
market.”
A Freak Sharemarket
While The Bulletin acknow-
ledges that Australia is in the
process of great expansion, and
that industrial growth is
vigorous, it still believes that
the present sharemarket in
Australia is in some respects a
freak sharemarket, and that
many investors are paying high
prices for “glamor” stocks in»
hopes of obtaining a reward
based on “market” increment
rather than on the dividend-
income they are likely to
receive within a reasonable
period from the company con-
cerned.
It is true that, one day, com-
panies now ploughing-back
large amounts of present profits
(which are not being distributed
currently to shareholders) in
order to finance expansion
should “pay-off” to their
backers—so long as their
present backers still own the
shares when “pay-off” time
comes.
But in many cases the “pay-
ing-off” period is well away in
the indistinct future. And for
present market prices to be
justified, the div.-experience of
leading companies in the next
decade would need to average
far better than it has done over
the past 20 years.
It will be dangerous for the
private investor to accept the
present sharemarket at its face-
value. Arithmetical analysis of
the prospects of individual
stocks is a very necessary thing,
with regard, in particular, to
present and prospective yields.
In the present period of obvious
capital-shortage it is bad invest-
ment policy to accept miserable
yields from one’s investments
unless there are clear prospects
of better returns in the not-so-
distant future.
“Ah, the brave music of a
distant drum! ” Omar Khay-
yam, the Persian philosopher,
might have commented.
World-money and Australia
JgACK in Melbourne from yet
another of his trips around
the world money-markets, lan
Potter, a leading stockbroker,
retains his optimistic outlook


DAVIS, ROTHWELL & CO.
(Incorporating Headlam, Hewson & Co.)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.)
117 Pitt Street,' Sydney.
BL. 1855 (3 lines)
110 Lords Place, Orange.
Orange 1054
Telegraphic and Cable Address, “RETEI*,” Sydney.
Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. ALLEN
P. R. LEVY
M. K. L. DOWLING
A. D. REYNOLDS
Members of The
Slock Exchange.
6 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
on Australia’s immediate and
farther-off future.
Other well-informed Aus-
tralians say the nation’s
political stability is one of the
reasons capital has continued
to flow into Australia (chiefly
from firms already established
in some measure here); but
lan Potter found that this
stability also retarded some
large-scale investments: no
urgent' case could be made out
for financial help to Australia
as it could be in underdeveloped
countries where the conflict
between the democracies and
the Communist bloc was keen.
This point about under-
developed countries being
favored by the big capital-
exporting countries had also
been made previously by
Walter Scott in his book Aus-
tralia and the Challenge of
Change.
Potter, who is a financier of
weight, believes Australia will
become the banker for the
South Pacific area: already we
are interested financially in the
future of N.Z. and Fiji, and
in time will become the fund-
holder for other Pacific and
Asian countries. That will give
Australia world financial
stature.
Never a Dull Moment
'T'here has hardly been a dull
-®- moment during the flow
of annual accounts since June
30, each week producing a
variety of results to keep
sharemarket interest lively,
even in the case of disappoint-
ments. A number have already
been reviewed in “The Wild
Cat” column.
We now have a fairly com-
petitive economy in most
industries, and profits are
largely earned according to
merit. There is, at the same
time, something of a “boom-
town” atmosphere about cer-
tain aspects of the economy
which have arisen mostly from
the influx of migrants and the
growth of the population
generally. There is in process,
also, a swing-over from rural
activities to manufacturing,
with a corresponding invest-
ment interest on the part of
those who have seen other big
secondary industries pay-off
handsomely in the past.
Taxation anomalies and
other factors (including the
necessity to retain profits to
finance capital - expenditure)
make it more difficult for
industries to reward investors
as bountifully as they did in
the earlier 1900’s, but at the
present time the most
remunerative investments seem
to be the sound middle-class
type of company, and these
have shown up to advantage
during the present flush of
balance-sheets and directors’
reports.
TV-manufacturers and distri-
butors have headed the list of
pleasant surprises this year, but
this type of industry has an
uncertain long-term character.
Cement-manufacturers, on a
surer thing, have done well
generally. Some hardware
people have done better;
others worse. The textile
industry has generally shown
better results than were
expected, this being obviously
so in the case of Bradford
Cotton. Minster, Ltd., the
maker of rubber - bonded
carpet, has shown a handsome
increase in its already attrac-
tive earnings, and Carpet
Manufacturers, which struck a
bad patch a couple of years
ago, has registered a recovery.
Newbold Refractories hasn’t
done quite so well as in the
previous year, and high market
hopes of some of the glamor
stocks have not been fully
There have been
poorer results, of course, from
the woolbroking concerns, with
prospects at the moment little,
if any, better.
Hire-purchase is another
preoccupation of the share-
market at both share and
“unsecured-note” level. But
while the volume of credit
sales has increased throughout
Australia, the earnings of many
retailers have been pinched a.
little this year. Producers of
foodstuffs don’t seem to have
done so well in this past term.
There have been, of course,
some “accidents.” One of
these was plant trouble at the
new Eildon (Vic.) factory of
Masonite Corporation. While
the old-established board-mill
at Raymond Terrace (N.S.W.)
had bigger and better results
than ever before, teething-
troubles at Eildon brought
manufacturing difficulties and
heavy loss of time and money.
The co. made current profits
bear the brunt of these establish-
ment expenses, which caused
a drain on the earnings from
Raymond Terrace, and the
final div. was passea-over.
Overall, indeed, there
seems to have been no big
improvement in profit-earning
in respect of the past financial
year. Not many dividends
have been increased. And the
sharemarket seems to be in
an urgently speculative mood
rather than in an attitude of
sober investment.
But it is undoubtedly an
interesting balance-sheet year,
even if not the most spectacu-
larly profitable one.
W.A. Stratigraphy
[From h. Owen]
As a continuation of Dr.
Fairbright’s A ustralian
Stratigraphy, but also of use
as an extension of the textbook
Elements of Geology for
Western Australian Students,
a 161-page volume entitled The
Stratigraphy of Western Aus-
tralia has recently been pub-
lished under the aegis of the
Geological Society of Aus-
tralia.
The letterpress consists,
mostly, of extracts from
reports by a multitude of
authors, over 60 of whom
receive acknowledgement in
the introduction. These reports
have been collected—and, to a
minor degree, edited—by three
employees of Wapet and two
members of the staff of W.A.
University. Although the
book offers difficult read-
ing for the layman, it
will remain, for the profes-
sional geologist, a valuable
source of reference for some
years to come ; it includes the
results of field-work carried
out as lately as 1957.
The new information
revealed is of especial interest
to readers of these pages, as it
confirms the postulates so
often laid down in Bulletin
articles dealing with the search
for oil in W.A. over the last
five years, although the deduc-
tions therein were dependent'
more on general principles
applied to the unique geologi-
cal history of Australia than
on detailed geological field-
knowledge of W.A.
The extreme complexity of
the structure of the pre-
Cretaceous beds underlying
the Carnarvon Basin —so often
.pointed out —has now been
confirmed by palaeontological
data from the few deep bores
sunk in that area. An interest-
ing example of this is the dis-
covery that the limestone in
contact with the base of the
Cretaceous Birdrong sandstone
in the only well on Dirk
Hartog Island which pene-
trated pre-Cretaceous strata is
of Silurian age.
The implications of that fact
on the technique and direc-
tion of the search for oil in
Australia are stupendous. Had
the first well on Dirk Hartog
been sunk deep enough to
bottom the Birdrong sand —
particularly if orientated, cores
had been recovered —the drill-
ing of wells Nos. 2 to 16 could
have been avoided, as could
most of the shallow “struc-
tural” wells on Rough Range,
Cape Range and other parts
of the Basin.
Palasogeographic map s—
which form an interesting
feature of the Stratigraphy —
are, at best, largely conjectural.
In the present case their
accuracy is influenced by the
fact that the data on which
they are founded have been
obtained, largely, from a few
unorientated well-cores —data
which are, for all practical
purposes, one-dimensional -
and from geophysical inter-
pretations.
The correlation-charts for
the several geological periods
are based, to a greater extent,
on more factual evidence, but
there has been a marked ten-
dency, even here, to attribute
lateral variation to faulting.
As Dr. Woolnough pointed
out long ago, erosional activity
on the Australian mainland has
been so active that contem-
poraneous peneplanation has
masked the effects of folding
movements which, in other
parts of the world, have
resulted in mountain ranges.
This erosion contem-
poraneous with folding
offers, among other- things, a
realistic explanation of the
huge columns of “siltstbne”
encountered in some of the
W.A. wells ; it also suggests a
cogent reason for the great
discrepancies between geo-
physical forecast and well-log
throughout Western Australia.


fs? ©
:
$ i
li' I 1
I i
wsl
mm
* M
\: h 6 ,H '
■-■■■:■. ■* r
1 11
w
:■: -X
••» ?
ims
wsm *
r **
.v.v:-: : :
LOT OF SECURITY
This figure may seem a little
large to the man whose main interest in
security lies in its application to his home or
his business. But what a wealth of confidence
he has, knowing these resources back the
Company through which he insures his assets.
The Insurance Company of North America —■
known the world over as I.N.A. —formed in
1792 in Philadelphia, came into being soon
after the U.S.A. signed the Declaration of
Independence.
In the 166 years since its formation, I.N.A.
has brought security through insurance to the
North American people, and made its benefits
available to the free world. Australasia, too,
shares this security, and the democratic
business beliefs of I.N.A. bring a new concept
of insurance to policyholders. Strong in its
belief that prompt settlement of claims is an
essential in insurance, I.N.A. acts accordingly.
There is, too, an ever present readiness to
interpret Insurance Contracts in a spirit of
compromise and reasonableness.
I.N.A. offers insurance cover for General
Household policies (Home and Contents and
Personal Effects), Small Business policies (Fire
with Consequential Loss of Profits, Public
Risk, Burglary, Plate Glass, Personal Accident
and all Sickness), Marine policies (intrastate,
interstate and international), Tourist Travel
and Luggage Protection.
It may well be in your own interest to see how I.N.A. can serve you.
imvA
1792
INSURANCE COMPANY OF NORTH AMERICA
Incorporated in'U.S.A. with limited Liability.
BRANCHES AT SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • AUCKLAND, N.Z.


Lonely Men and Women
Welcome to join
Modern PEN-FRIEND Service.
Box 35, Abbotsford, Victoria.
(All ages.)
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Kubelik and Kurtz
Rafael Kubelik is without
any doubt the liveliest figure
in music hereabouts at the
moment. The great quality
he brings to music is an in-
fectious enthusiasm that makes
one wonder how music could
ever live without it. His great
sweeping gestures make him a
fascinating conductor to watch,
but it would be wrong to
assume that this is mere showi-
ness as with some prima
donnas of the baton. He is
completely at the service of
the composer, and the great
energy he generates as he goes
along is the expression of a
tremendous admiration for the
music being played. And real
culture, as William James said,
lives by sympathy and admira-
tion, not by dislikes and dis-
dain.
In Brisbane he took the
Queensland Orchestra to a
high level of playing. A
rarely-heard overture by
Mendelssohn, “Son and
Stranger,” had miracles of
balanced, lovely string- and
wind-playing. Then a no-
nonsense French symphony,
the Third of Roussel, was
played with something like
virtuoso precision. Written for
the Boston Symphony, it put
these players on their mettle,
and Kubelik showed that part
of his excellence lies in clear
and decisive beat that gives an
orchestra complete confidence
in tackling new music.
The concert was the first in
Australia by Edmund Kurtz,
who played the solo part in
Dvorak’s ’Cello Concerto,
Dvorak wrote no music
lovelier than this. It pulsates
with life, and is so seldom
heard only because there are
so few master ’cellists capable
of doing it justice. The com-
poser solved the problem of
writing a ’cello concerto by
first giving the orchestra its
head in the long introduction.
Then, having had many 'in-
teresting things to say, the
orchestra can ungrudgingly let
the ’cello have its share of the
melodic splendors of the piece
with the lightest of accom-
paniments and no fear of being
drowned out.
The imperturbable Kurtz,
mounted on a platform raised
above the orchestra, produced
a warm and lovely tone that
struck fire into the orchestral
strings around him. In the
slow movement the ’cello
seemed to be playing itself, so
“ Words, Words, Words!"
effortless was Kurtz’s per-
formance, and the long medita-
tion in the finale was almost
overripe in beauty.
Presiding over the concerto,
the tall figure of Kubelik made
the most of the orchestral
part. He kept the solo line
clear, but when the orchestra
was on its own, as when the
first movement dies away in
a burst of fanfares, the effect
was thrilling. As in the
symphony, all the inner parts
could be heard, and the trans-
parency of the playing was of
a kind not often heard since
Goossens was here. Two tail-
pieces to the concert, extracts
from Berlioz’s “Faust.” were
at the same pitch of excitement.
D. J. M.
Royal Ballet
In the Royal Ballet's third
programme at Sydney Empire,
Coralli’s choreography for
“Giselle,” as used by Nicholas
Sergueeff, gave plenty of oppor-
tunity for virtuosity, and
Rowena Jackson, Margaret
Lee and Philip Chatfield left
nothing to be desired on that
score ; the corps de ballet, and
the pas de deux by Susan
Alexander and Michael
Boulton, were all of the same
high standard.
Some of the more dazzling
moments were: Margaret Lee,
as Queen of the Wilis, im-
perious on points, with steps
so minute the result was of
a single shimmering beam of
light moving diagonally across
the empty stage ; Rowena Jack-
son’s graceful and seemingly
relaxed dancing, which had the
effect of taking place some six
inches above the stage instead
of on it; and Philip Chatfield
being brought to bounding and
leaping life in Act 11, when
the choreography at last gave
him the opportunity to dance.
Rowena Jackson’s last back-
ward withdrawal was intensely
moving, but only until the
moment it was broken to permit
her to turn and sink down
with vanishing upstretched
arms —a break in which the
previous poetry was lost.
Which recalls a similar dis-
illusionment in the superb
Bolshoi film, when the beauti-
ful receding of Ulanova is
marred by the reappearance of
a ghostly arm from the
shrubbery to toss out a little
white flower —as flat-footed a
bit of stage-business as ever
came on the heels of a magni-
ficent final moment.
Explanatory mime is super-
fluous when the dancing is suffi-
ciently expressive, and, when it
comes to using the dancing
itself as a means of expression,
there isn’t a dancer in this
present company whose per-
formance isn’t precise and
exact. They demonstrated that
again in a repeat performance
of Andree Howard’s “Venezi-
ana,” improved by the omis-
sion of the procession across
the back of the stage bearing
yards of cloth, and with Johaar
Mosaval, as Punchinello, in
even better form than in his
first appearance.
♦X 4 ♦X 4 >X 4
Beryl Kimber
Beryl Kimber, a young Mel-
bourne woman with a flam-
boyant drag of her bow and a
mightily absorbed look, made
a considerable impression the
other night on a well-filled
Melbourne Town Hall which
wasn’t expecting her appear-
ance. The occasion was a
“celebrity” concert with the
Victorian Symphony Orchestra
under Kurt Woess’s baton, and
Miss Kimber was brought to
the platform only by chance,
the original soloist having had
her fingers jammed in a car
door.
Her business at this concert
was Mozart’s sth Violin Con-
certo, and she conveyed the
lyrical wonder and feeling of
the music with skill and assur-
ance, and only in the more
hectic passages, when the bow
and the left hand must move
with the speed of lightning, was
her technique found wanting.
Well-shaped and balanced and
firm and warm in tone, her
playing showed that, essen-
tially, she understood the
concerto.
The opening work, “Fran-
zoesische Suite Nach Rameau,”
by Werner Egyk, led off from
a noisy beginning to a slow
and miraculously lovely finish.
Mahler’s Fourth Symphony in
G crowned the evening.
Mahler displays his reverence
for the two German Old
Masters, Brahms and Beet-
hoven, with heavy, deliberate
music which at times rises with
mysterious strength to the
heights once touched by the
men he most admires. Halinka
de Tarzcinkska joined the
orchestra in the final move-
ment, her fine soprano ming-
ling and adding to the
orchestral tone in a manner
which would have certainly
pleased old Gustav.


CHATEAU TANUNDA
Stories of the Coastal Lights No. 22
Si
Goose Island
Like the light on nearby Swan Island, the light installed at
Goose Island, Bass Strait, in 1846, was of a new type. These
two lights represented an important stage in the development
of the highly-efficient modern catadioptric lens.
Goose Island is the most western of three islands which
were called the Chappell Islands by Matthew Flinders
(Chappell was his wife's maiden name). The other islands
in the group are Badger Island and Mt. Chappell Island.
Goose Island is rocky and low (its maximum height is
only 50 ft.), and is about 1 £ miles long and half a mile wide.
Its name is derived from the fact that it is a nesting place for
the Cape Barren goose, and large numbers of these birds are
frequently seen feeding on the island.
The lighthouse, a white circular stone tower standing
93 ft. high, was constructed by the Tasmanian Government
in 1845-46 and came into use in February, 1846.
Lightkeepers were stationed at Goose Island until 1931,
when the original apparatus was replaced with a modern
acetylene revolving light. This light has a strength of 35,000
candlepower and is visible for 15 miles in clear weather.
The station is yisited by a lighthouse steamer every three
months for inspection and the 16 cylinders of acetylene used
to operate the light are changed every six months. The light
is automatically switched on at sunset and off at sunrise by a
sunvalve.
The position of the Goose Island lighthouse is latitude
40° 19' south, longitude 147° 48' east.
You can have confidence in the quality
of this pure grape brandy
CHATEAU TANUNDA
,Sf/d£ SffffZ)edfone/i#n {
N.S. W. Agents :
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine Spirits for 120 years
CL2282
Artbursts
Sydney Art
It would almost be possible,
if ever a generalisation could be
true, to divide Australian
painters—or painters anywhere
—into those who are painting
for the connoisseur and those
who are painting to shine in
exhibitions ; and if you did that
in Sydney this week you could
be tempted to find the first
group at the Royal Art
Society (Education Depart-
ment) and the others at the
“Women’s Weekly” exhibition
at the National Gallery.
But no generalisations are
ever quite true. The Royal Art
Society has not as much for the
connoisseur as it should ; and
unquestionably it hangs far too
many commonplace paintings
and needs a fresh source of
energy. The “Women’s Weekly”
show, if some of the paintings
are pretty slapdash and many
much bigger than their intrinsic
quality warrants, has a number
of very fine paintings ; probably
more on the whole than the
Royal Art.
So, putting generalisations
aside, all the conscientious critic
can do is to list the best works
he finds in each place: which
at the Royal Art are (in water-
color) Norman Lindsay’s
“Dalliance,” G. K. Town-
shend’s “House and Hill,” Jean
Derrin’s flowerpiece, E. M.
Hegarty’s “Albion Park,” Molly
Flaxman’s “Rain Clouds” and
Claudia Forbes - Woodgate’s
“Cottage by the Sea” ; and (in
oils) Lance Solomon’s “Down
the Road,” Robert Johnson’s
“Macleay River,” Garrett
Kingsley’s “The Creek,” Isabel
Mackenzie’s “From a
Veranda,” Howard Ashton’s
“Moonrise” and Joshua
Smith’s “Ships, Balmain.”
At the “Women’s Weekly”
exhibition the prizewinners are:
best portrait (£1000), John
Rigby’s “Margaret,” a striking
piece of design in its verticals
and patches of black and pale-
yellow, yet sensitive rather than
sensational, with »a genuine
feeling for personality in the
face; best subject-painting
(£1000), Albert Tucker’s “Aus-
tralian Gothic,” ingenious in
its woodlike textures and a
valid commentary on the
original “American Gothic,”
but hardly going beyond the
stage of a curiosity; best
portrait by a woman (£250),
Ivana Vrana’s “Girl with
Gold Hair,” mildly effective
but hardly worth the prize
if it hadn’t come all the
way from Czechoslovakia ; and
best subject-painting by a
woman (£250), Phyl Water-
house’s colorful but scruffy
“Marketing Group.”
Two portraits apart from
these that particularly took this
commentator’s eye were Charles
Meere’s delightfully cool and
sculptural “Shirley at the
Window” and Charles Bush’s
“Aggie,” much more charming
than its uncompromising title
would suggest. There was also
an interesting young lady trying
to climb out of Thomas Gleg-
horn’s architectural abstrac-
tion.
But generalisations, if they
are unreliable, can still retain
their measure of truth ; and a
great many of the 67 paintings
in Carl Plate's exhibition at
David Jones’ do look as if
they had been dashed-off in a
hurry to make a splash in an
exhibition.
It is in the other half of his
exhibition, where obviously
there is deeper thought, more
finesse of craftsmanship, more
intricacy of form, more
emotion, that the real interest
must lie. And here there are
undoubtedly some striking
works.
Over the past two years
Plate has repeatedly tried to
make some mystical statement
about horses and jockeys falling
over. Maybe it is a commentary
on the Australian character, or
even the national economy ;
but more likely it is a personal
symbol. Whatever it is, he
says it very effectively here in
the macabre “Horse-rider,” and
again in “Double Dive.”
“Below the Palisade” is a suave
and pleasing gouache and,
though there would need to be
more form behind the sub-
stance for the method to remain
interesting, there is a rich and
dramatic effect in “Behind the
Substance.”
♦l* <s*
Lawrence Daws
Lawrence Daws’s exhibition
at the S.A. Society of Arts
demonstrates the paradox that
there can be life in an abstract.
Daws is a brilliant and original
painter who is at present study-
ing in Rome; his pictures
betray no hangover from the
strong potions of Italian art.
Indeed, they look as clean and
nimble as a Ferrari or an Alfa
Romeo, and they set the
imagination into immediate
motion. Form and color hurtle
into space under sound con-
trol in most of these paintings,
while a select group remain
ominously still, as in “Ultimo
Giorno.” Daws, who can
paint beautifully in realistic
genres, and is also a trained
geologist, is not interested in
the abstract as something
either sloppy or merely decora-
tive. He is trying to get at
some image which will inter-
pret the explosive life at the
source of animate or inanimate
nature. His energy, technical
accomplishment and personal
integrity will impress even the
most resolutely anti-abstract
spectator.
G.D.
Films
“Gigi”
This light-hearted comedy,
stemming from a Colette story,
is essentially French, urbane
and cynical. The central
character is a hoydenish
schoolgirl who is being assidu-
ously groomed by her grand-
mother and grand-aunt, both
of whom have made fortunes
as mistresses, to follow their
old careers —to them, the
thought of her marrying not
only smacks of something


Link up with real strength
The World's Largest Chain of Retail Merchandisers
Woltons-Seors Limited
Australia
Sears. Roebuck and Co
U.S.A.
yielding per annum
on a term of 6 years
4 years,
7%
12 months,
5i%
3 years,
6*%
9 months,
5%
2 years,
6%
6 months,
4J%
18 months,
52%
—;
3 months,
32%
This Is not an abridged Prospectus and does
not constitute an invitation to subscribe to this
issue.
THE COMPANY YOU ARE INVESTING IN It
wholly owned by Waltons-Sears Limited, tha
successful retail organisation of 47 stores in tha
three eastern States of Australia and operating a
nation-wide mail order business.
Sears, Roebuck, the world's largest retail mer-
chandiser, has invested more than 4,250,000
dollars in Waltons-Sears Limited.
SHOULD YOU NEED CASH provision is made in
the Prospectus for repayment before maturity.
INVEST NOW AND GAIN
1. Undoubted security for your
money.
2. More income from your money.
3. An independent guarantee by a
great Company.
APPLY FOR PROSPECTUS
and INVEST NOW
The National Bank of Australasia Ltd.
Bank of Now South Wales
Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia
Any store or office of Waltons-Sears Limited, and
in particular Park and George Streets, Sydney,
MA 9273
Or any member of a recognised Stock Exchange
in Australia.
WALTONS-SEARS
CREDIT CORPORATIO!
(Incorporated in Canberra, A.C.T|
authorised capital £5,000,000
of which £2,000,000 has already been
subscribed by Waltons-Sears Limited
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Broker to the issue: J. B. WERE & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange, Melbourne)
Trustee: Burns Philp Trust Company Limited
UNCO N DIT 10 N'AL LY GUAR AN T EED B Y
WALTONS-SEARS LIMITED
sordid but of downright
immorality.
Maurice Chevalier, still the
inimitable boulevard-stroller,
acts as a sort of interlocutor,
makes sage comments on life
and love, and gives his wealthy
nephew elegant tuition.
Leslie Caron is the girl who
eventually bursts out as a
fascinating social butterfly and
confounds her elderly mentors
by steering a seemingly un-
catchable bachelor towards the
altar. Louis Jourdain is suit-
ably blase as the young roue
who learns all about love from
the old roue—except how to
hold-out against matrimony.
The doings are salted by
facile and witty lyrics from
Lerner, and reasonably tuneful
songs from Loewe.
At Sydney Liberty.
❖ ❖ *>
“Ten North Frederick”
An unlovely American
middle-class family goes under
the microscope in this John
O’Hara story. Ma is a vicious
fanatic with a roaring ambi-
tion for her husband to
become a political big-shot ;
Pa, a successful law7er who
would prefer to relax at home,
yields to his wife’s importuni-
ties and pays a “hundred-
grand” to a snide political
fixer for a Senate nomination
which he never gets, and like-
wise reaches for his cheque-
book to buy-off the petty crook
whom his wilful daughter has
to marry; the daughter is a
thoroughly spoiled neurotic,
and the 19-year-old son
already a seasoned whisky-
fancier.
When he finds his dough has
disappeared down the sink —
his daughter’s disgrace sup-
posedly having wrecked his
chances of gracing the Senate
benches the father seeks
solace with her beauteous girl-'
friend, but later nobly abjures
her charms because it might
militate against her chances of
marrying.
Despite some hard-to-
swallow ingredients, a highly
skilled cast is able to make
the concoction rather less
doughy than might be
expected. Gary Cooper brings
an easy dignity to the harassed
lawyer and is richly human in
his last dark days. Geraldine
Fitzgerald is the vicious wife ;
Diane Varsi an appropriately
sullen and wayward daughter;
and Suzy Parker quite charm-
ing as the girl-friend.
At Sydney Century.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Repco, Ltd.
Mow that last October’s one-for-two
gratis handout has taken most of the
gilt off the gingerbread, it speaks well for
Repco’s rating on ’Change that the stock
is still considered a proposition with its
present £4 ss. lOd. p.c. yield. Sound it
undoubtedly is, but at 1 Is. Bd. the ss.
scrip seems to offer few immediate attrac-
tions, except, perhaps, for the institutional
investor.
Granted, profits have been racing
ahead ; they have, however, been out-
stripped by the snowballing share-capital.
At the new point of equilibrium the 13.4
p.c. earning-rate on ord. capital is no
more than moderate, and, with Repco’s
general-staff looking around for new
worlds to conquer, the current 10 p.c.
div.-rate is all that can be banked-on with
confidence in the nearer future. Depleted
to £1,335,403, after deducting the
£465,385 of goodwill, reserves obviously
could stand a little nursing. Visible net
tangibles are a bit thin at 6s. sd. a share.
Last year’s bonus-issue, financed by
capitalising £1,566,493 of share-premiums,
gives old Repco hands no immediate
advantage, since the div.-rate was dropped
to 10 p.c. from the 15 p.c. which had
been maintained from 1950-51 onward,
thus leaving unaltered the effective yield.
In the past decade the only previous prize
was in 1952, a two-for-three issue of 6 p.c.
notes, each of which carried on a one-
for-one basis separate options to take up
shares at a 50 p.c. premium. Nearly all
the options were exercised in the term
before last. Further in 1947, an
ordinary share-issue had also carried a
similar qualification, so that the “incre-
ment” aspect of the stock has been fairly
modest.
Kingpin of the local automotive-
replacements industry, the giant Repco
organisation, in the role of manufacturer,
distributor and servicer, deploys its
resources for the rejuvenation of engines,
transmissions and brakes of all makes
and vintages of trucks, cars and cycles.
Garage-equipment and machine-tools are
the profitable side-lines.
Despite its virtual standing as one of
today’s leading industrials, Repco is a
relative latecomer, only this year cele-
brating its coming-of-age in the public
lists. Brought to its present stature by a
policy directed toward the integration of
allied automotive interests, the parent at
present holds sway over about a score of
subsidiaries and close affiliates centred
mainly in and around Melbourne, with
offshoots in the other eastern States and
a branch office in N.Z.
Of particular interest are activities in
the export field. No indications are given
of turnover, and it is unlikely that receipts
from overseas are, at this stage, of more
than token significance. Nevertheless, it
is interesting to learn that export sales
rose by a quarter last year, and that
orders have been received from the
U.S.A., the Continent and the Middle
East, as well as from Asian markets
nearer home. Any volume penetration of
these competitive markets, however, pre-
supposes a wider spread of home-base
production, which is dampened-down at
present by the continued 30 p.c. sales-tax
on private vehicles and 16f p.c. on com-
mercials.
The term ended June 30 was easily
the best to date, and, excluding a loss of
£28,062 on the sale of certain fixed assets,
the group earned a tidy £631,464 (£522,300
in 1957), out of which was paid £469,948
as dividends on the one-class equity-
capital. The result was struck after
charging depreciation at the healthy rate
of £285,778 (£176,271) on plant, etc.,
booked in at £1,726,375 at balance-date ;
and setting aside a tax-provision which,
at £377,531 (£364,547) seems to match-up,
more-or-less, with the year’s visible profit:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To
June Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves*
30, £ £ £ £
15 p.c.
1954 .. 288,264 263,974 24,290 1,728,072
Profit sale assets, £1987 .. .. 1,730,059
Tax overprovided, £5511 . . . . 1,735,570
Long-service provision, £37,146 .. 1,698,424
Premiums employee shares,
£143,294 1,841,718
15 p.c.
1955 .. 482,520 280,743 201,777 2,043,495
Profit sale assets, £4211 .. ~ 2,047,706
Tax overprovidt d, £426 .. .. 2,048,132
Share premiums, £285,000 _ .. 2,333,132
15 p.c.
1956 .. 530,633 307,501 223,132 2,556,264
Profit sale assets, £9635 .. .. 2,565,899
Tax overprovided, £llO9 .. .. 2,567,008
Share premiums, £532,741.. .. 3,099,749
15 p.c.
1957 .. 522,300 403,086 119,214 3,218,963
Share premiums capitalised,
£1,566,493 1,652,470
Net loss sale assets, £28,062 .. 1,624.408
Tax overprovided, £14,864., .. 1,639,272
10 p.c.
1958 .. 631,464 469,948 161.516 1,800,788
* Subject to intangibles, £465,385 at
June 30, 1958.
On book-values, Repco’s working-capital
shrank somewhat, with the bank figuring
once more as the major creditor:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £2.067,507 £3,132,987 £4,699,481
Reserves .. ~ 2,556,264 3,218,963 1,800, 1 88
Notes .. 1,066,500 505,615
Overdraft.. .. 1,165,116 235,210 1,205,551
Creditors .. .. 578,318 507,439 597,037
Loans at call .. —• 112,600 44,141
Tax provision .. 366,362 395,405 378,833
Staff funds .. 74,104 86,746 103,907
Filial div. .. 155,063 234,743 234,974
£8,029,234 £8,429,708 £9,004,712
Freeholds .. 1,393,218 1,411.045 1,418,909
Plant, vehicles, etc. 1,601,359 1,669,205 1,726,375
Shares assoc, cos. 816,876 889,376 889,376
Advances to assoc.
cos 30,000 22,500 35,000
Stuck .. .. 2.368.027 2,506,172 2,887.284
Debtors . . .. 1,337,782 1,448.831 1,627,552
Cash, bonds .. 10,587 17,194 14,831
Intangibles .. 465,385 465,385 465,385
£5,029,234 £8,429,708 £0,064,712
A total of £557,470 was added to current
assets, including increases of £178,721 in
book-debts and £381,112 in inventories.
“These movements reflect the general
expansion of the companies’ business
during the year, and both items bear a
normal relation to current business
activity.”
Current liabilities were up. by
£992,300, mainly due to the increase of
£970,341 owed the bank, following the
discharge of the balance of the unsecured
notes.
Freeholds and shares held in associate
companies appear in the books at cost.
Kandos Cement Co., Ltd.
Following a practice being adopted by
all the very best people these days,
the Kandos Cement half-controlled
manufacturing-subsidiary is financing its
very considerable expansion largely out
of undistributed earnings.
In the post-war period plant-capacity
of Australian Portland Cement Pty., the
operating co., has never, overall, exceeded
demand, and the board has not been
by any means rash in making its recent
additions. These, however, have been
very substantial, particularly in Victoria,
and with additions now contemplated in
N.S.W., it would be probably correct to
say that plant-capacity over the past
five years has been nearly doubled with-
out shareholders being asked to contri-
bute anything in the way of share-capital.
Kandos Cement and Australian
Cement, Ltd., of Melbourne, have each
2,000,000 shares in Australian Portland
Cement Pty., Ltd., the biggest cement-
producer in Australia, with plants at
Geelong (Victoria) and Kandos (N.S.W.).
Thus the Kandos co. can count on equal
participation in profits earned at Geelong
as well as Kandos, and this makes for
stability from the investor’s point of
view, particularly in view of the present
greater activity at the Victorian end of
things.
The Geelong plant has been ex-
panded to a capacity of 500,000 tons a
year, and the additions should be in
operation before the end of this year.
At Kandos, with the installation of a
fifth unit last term, capacity is about
200,000 tons a year. A complete modern
sixth unit (capacity undisclosed but
described in terms similar to the Geelong
addition) is to be installed over the
next three years, and, like other recent
installations, is to be financed out of
“internal resources,” the directors adding
that “it will be apparent that this major
expansion of the works will be expen-
sive, and that the company’s funds will
be fully occupied.”
The new plant will reduce costs of
production, and “place the company in
a position to meet the demand we are
confident will arise within the next three
to ten years.”
During the past financial year produc-
tion of cement throughout Australia
touched 2,320,000 tons, compared with
2,236,000 tons in the preceding year.
Australian Portland Cement Pty. made
record sales in both Victoria and N.S.W.,
despite the prophets of gloom around
and about the building industry. There
was an actual shortage of cement in
Victoria, relieved by imports from
neighboring States, but after the new
Geelong plant gets into full operation


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. URQUHART, M. D. PASSMORE, K. W. A: BRIDGES
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
25 O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
Telephone
r.W 8171 (3 lines)
Cables &- Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
G. H. PARTRIDGE & CO.
1., D. PARTRIDGE, A. G. HANSON
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
113 Pitt Street, Sydney Telephone: BL 5031-2
Victoria should be self-sufficient as
regards cement for some time.
Profits of the operating co. are not
disclosed, but it is clear that they are
considerably in excess of the dividends
passed on to the holding-cos. Last term
Kandos again showed just enough to
meet the usual 10 p.c. div. and to look
after “petties” comfortably:—•
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1954.. 83,328 10 p.c. = 74,874 8,454 560,945
1955.. 102,378 12} „ ~93,592 8,786 569,781
Shares in Australian Portland Cement
Pty., Ltd., revalued, £660,000.. 1,229,731.
Reserves capitalised, £655,144 . . 574,587
1956.. 150,133 10 p.c. =140,388 9,745 584,382
Special div., A.P.C., £90,000 .. 674,333
1957.. 155,088 10 p.c. =140,888 14,700 689.033
1958.. 155,320 10 ~ ~140,388 14,932 703,965
Since 1955 bonus-issues to the share-
holding public have made 10 p.c. worth
almost twice as much, and disclosed
profits have risen to meet the div.-charge.
The undisclosed earning-power of the
business may be judged from the fact
that the Geelong extension has not
inhibited the co. in its div.-distributions
to date, even though the new plant has
been paid for out of internal funds and
hasn’t yet been able itself to contribute to
profits. When this new plant is operating
later this year earnings of the joint under-
taking should benefit appreciably, and
should be able to finance the new
additions at Kandos.
The demand for cement in Australia
should continue at a high average level
for at least some years to come. In
Victoria only one increase in the price
of cement has been made over the past
six years, and in N.S.W. variations have
been merely in accord with variations in
wage and the cost-of-living. This keeping
of the price of cement down assures full
use of it against other competitors. Alec
L. Bell, chairman of Kandos, at the
annual meeting said that “the growing
use of cement during the last 10 years
has elevated its manufacture today to
one of the major industries in Australia
and throughout the world.”
No distinct idea of the ramifications
or obvious financial strength of the
undertaking can be gathered from the
formal figures submitted by the Kandos
holding-co.:
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital ~ £1.403,880 £1,403,880 £1,403,880
Reserves . . 584,332 689,032 703,964
Creditors and tax
provision . . 3,402 4,080 8,593
Final Diva. - .. 70,194 70,194 70,194
£2,061,808 £2,1G7,186 £2,181,631
Shares in Aust.
Portland Cement
Pty., Ltd. . , 1,910,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Shares in Pipe
Linings (A/sia) 6,000 5,000 5,000
Due by subsid. ~ 9,000 9,000 9,000
Cash, bonds, etc. 137,808 153,186 167,631
£2,061,808 £2.167,186 £2,151,631
On the small holding in Pipe Linings
(Australasia), Ltd., a dividend of 10
p.c. has been received from a “satis-
factory profit.”
During recent months the sharemarket
has been inclined to pay more rational
prices for the shares of Kandos Cement
in relation to the scrip of Australian
Cement, Ltd. Previously it was the habit
to pay considerably more for Australian
Cement shares than for those of Kandos,
though each co. has an identical holding
in the same operating co., and their own
issued capitals are very similar.
Both issues are now priced at around
545. for the £1 shares. The market is
prepared to wait for the benefits that the
large extension of earning-capacity should
ultimately assure, and accepts a present
yield of 3.7 p.c. from a 10 p.c. div., thus
placing Kandos and its stablemate in
the blue-chip category.
John Mcllwraith Industries, Ltd.
IN a year that was again “exceedingly
competitive,” the John Mcllwraith
group has notched a record profit and
expanded the base of its operations to
go on to bigger things. The high
earning-power that has been charac-
teristic of the business since it was floated
into a public co. in March, 1951, is
resulting in satisfactory dividends to
shareholders balanced by profit-retentions
sufficient to finance the normal course
of business expansion.
Established for over a century, the
business now is constituted by a parent
and 13 subsidiaries. Two of these latter
were acquired last year—L. J. Morgan
Pty., Ltd., manufacturers of stainless-
steel products, of Melbourne (for 225,366
f.-p. John Mcllwraith 10s. ords.), and
the Cistern Manufacturing Co., Ltd., of
Brisbane (111,028 f.-p. ords. and £97,906
in cash). These two businesses merge
satisfactorily with the rest of the organisa-
tion, which manufactures or handles a
large range of builders’ and plumbers'
hardware, specialising in the production
of lead pipes and fittings used in acid
plants, batteries, etc., as well as in
general plumbing, plumbers’ brassware,
c.i.p.e. baths, sinks and basins, hospital
equipment, washing-machines, electric
stoves and stovettes, stainless-steel sinks,
etc. The group has headquarters in
Melbourne, with factories in Richmond,
Coburg, Dandenong and Geelong (Vic.),
and Sydney and Brisbane. Expansion
since flotation has been financed without
any cash-issues to shareholders, the only
increase in capital being irt respect of
takeovers.
The board has never grizzled about
conditions in the building-trade, like
some others in the business'; though it
has acknowledged keener competition,
it has been able, at the worst of times,
to strike an optimistic note that has been
justified by subsequent results.
Last term, with the aid of earnings
from the cistern (four months of the
year) and stainless-steel (nine months)
acquisitions, trading profit moved up by
£110,785 to £794,233; after allowing
for depreciation (£69,303, up £13,789),
and taxation (£269,892, up £13,304), net
profit was £83,687 stronger at £455,033,
and equal to 30.6 p.c. on average capital,
compared with 27.5, 27.2, 28.9, 22.5 and
17.6 p.c. back to 1953:
Parent »sb Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. ~ Dividends > serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £
1954. 12} p.c. ;= 168,630 135,607 476,682
Goodwill written off, £6OOO .. •• 470,682
Unexplained addition, £l2 .. .. 470,694
1955. .390,854 12} p.c. = 1*8,630 222,224 692,918
1956. .366,793 12} „ ~168,630 198,163 891,081
1957. .371,346 131 „ ~185,493 185,853 1,076,934
Share premiums, £260,623 .. .. 1.337,557
Goodwill written-off, £225,000 . . 1,112,557
1958. .455,033 15 p.c. = 223,240 231,793 1,344,350
* Subject to intangibles, £413,414, 30/6/ 58.
The div.-rate was kept at the increased
15 p.c. established in the last half of
the previous term, and more than was
distributed was carried to reserves.
Reserves during the year benefited to
the extent of the premium on shares
issued in effecting the two takeovers, less
£141,372 added to goodwill on consoli-
dation (now £413,414). A straightout
goodwill item of £225,000 which had
appeared in the accounts since formation
was last term written-off, leaving reserves
at £1,344,350, subject to the excess over
par-value paid for subsidiaries shares
(£413,414).
Paid capital moved up by £168,197
(the amount of share-consideration for
the new subsidiaries) to £1,517,240. There
was general expansion among the assets
commensurate with the size of the
businesses taken over:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital £1,349,043 £1,349,043 £1,51> ,240
Reserves .. ~ 891,081 1,076,933 1,344,349
Outside interests.. 2 2 2
Overdraft .. .. 108.213 75,125 25,,543
Loans . . . . 436,480 419,277 460,881
Creditors .. .. 310,906 310.029 351,494
Tax provision .. 274,523 273.971 321,268
Final div. . . 84,315 101,178 113,793
£3,454,563 £3,611,558 £4,366,570
Land, buildings .. 654,924 693,176 808,447
Plant, etc. . . 375,318 418,'772 560.899
Investments .. 17,562 17,562 17,,>62
Stock . . . . 1,171,892 1,255,300 1,645,204
Debtors, etc. .. 737.327 729,078 920,354
Cash . . . . 498 628 690
Intangibles .. 497,042 497,042 413,414
£3,454,563 £3,611,558 £4,360,570
Land and buildings moved up £115,271
to £808,447 ; plant and fittings by
£142,127 to £560,899 ; stocks by £389,904
to £1,645,204 ; and debtors by £191,276
to £920,354. There is nothing of
significance there that could not be
accounted for by the takeovers. The
only important movement among the
liabilities was a growth of £182,418 (to
£257,543) in the overdraft. The financial
position remains comfortable.
The entry into the stainless-steel pro-
ducts business last year was an impor-
tant and necessary venture, and helps to


INSURANCE SERVICE
Why nor eu trust fhe COMPLETE management of you: Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, tree or cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant super-
vision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY ... BU 3445
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
The SAFI ten-per-cent
/
/
X
X
PRODUCTIONS LIMITED
£lOO,OOO
0
CASH DEPOSITS
INVEST IN ONE OF AUSTRALIA'S MOST
RAPIDLY EXPANDING INDUSTRIES
Deposits, on the attractive terms listed below, are
invited to meet the expansion demands of Carapark
Productions Ltd.—the manufacturing and distributing
Company of the profitable Carapark Group. Deposits
rank ahead of shareholders’ capital for repayment. Full
particulars from your Broker, from any Branch of the
National Bank of Australasia in N.S.W. and Q’land —
or send coupon below.
1 YEAR
6% P-a.
2 YEARS
7% P-a.
5 YEARS
6%
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
CORRIE & CO.
(Members of the Brisbane
Stock Exchange)
127 Eagle Street, Brisbane
Branch Offices: Townsville,
Surfers Paradise
CERTIFICATE OF ASSET BACKING
We hereby certify that the tan-
gible asset backing is £lB5 lor
each £lOO of liabilities, including
Cash Deposits. In each of the
last 3 years, profits before tax
would cover interest payments
on Cash Deposits over 3 times.
Henson, Gates & Co.,
Public Accountants.
BANKERS TO THE COMPANY: THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
CARAPARK PRODUCTIONS LTD.
is one of the CARAPARK GROUP
To: Carapark Productions Ltd.,
681 Parramatta Rd., Leichhardt, N.S.W. Ph. LM7317.
Please send me full particulars of your 10% Cash Deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
CD-B.
balance the character of the
group’s output in accordance
with present-day demands.
Chairman John Mcllwraith
Smith ends his report to
shareholders with the cneery
observation: “Statistics
covering the building industry
show that a larger number of
houses are being built in Aus-
tralia now compared with last
year, and the sales of the
company for July and August,
1958, reflect that increase.
Therefore I am confident we
can look forward to another
solid year.”
Since the increase in the
dividend from 12} p.c. to 15
p.c. there has been a much
wider demand for the co.’s 10s.
shares, which are well sup-
ported now at 31s: 3d. At that
price the yield is 4.8 p.c. on the
present div. basis, and the
visible net tangible backing is
16s. Id. per 10s. share.
Mulgoa
[By L. Owen]
■p/EW or those interested in the
A advancement of the search
for oil in Australia will regret
the cessation of drilling at
Dural (N.S.W.), although they
will sympathise with the
operators for being forced to
abandon Dural 2 before it had
reached a conclusive depth. It
is, however, unlikely that the
transfer of the drilling-rig to
Mulgoa will be welcomed by
the oil-wise section of the
public, which—through the
1958-59 oil-subsidy—is being
called upon to pay half the cost
of the new bore.
The area has already been
tested, as a well was sunk at
Mulgoa in 1935 ; it struck gas
in the Upper Coal Measures at
2110 ft. and 2324 ft. Although
this gas ignited on test, it was
of little value —often the case
when the gas is associated with
faulted coal—as it contained
74 per cent, of carbon-dioxide.
Gas of similar composition
has been encountered in coal-
mines, both in Australia and
overseas, in what are described
as “instantaneous outbursts.”
In a recent case an analysis, of
gas emanating from a faulted
zone in the Bulli coalseam of
the Metropolitan colliery
showed over 92 p.c. of carbon-
dioxide. This coalmine is
located in the Illawarra district
of the Southern Coalfield
(N.S.W.). There can be little
doubt, therefore, that both the
Metropolitan and Mulgoa gas
originate in coal-seams affected
by the Nepean fault-system.
A very large part of such
Permian gas must have been
dissipated during the long
Triassic land-phase in N.S.W.,
and the lack of commercial
deposits of gas is not surprising,
while no discovery of petroleum
in measureable quantity has
been substantiated within the
N.S.W. Permian.
In England, with its much
shorter break following the
Javing-down of the Carboni-
ferous coal-measures, gas in
coalmines is much more pre-
valent than in Australia, and
liquid petroleum was, for a
time, collected from one of the
coalmines and utilised. Yet, in
spite of intensive searching,
neither oil nor gas has been
obtained in what may be con-
sidered as commercial quan-
tities.
In N.S.W., during 1957, only
21 of the 139 collieries in
operation showed any sign of
inflammable gas. In the
Southern Coalfield (which is
particularly relevant to the
prospects at Mulgoa) only seven
collieries out of 30 gave
positive tests for the presence
of inflammable gas. In the
Western District —which works
seams correlated with those of
the Southern Coalfield —no
inflammable gas was detected
in any one of the 32 collieries.
The prospects of striking gas
of commercial value west of
Sydney in sufficient and
persistent quantity can thus be
considered as remote, while
the chances of encountering
other than traces of liquid
petroleum are even less hopeful.
International Resistance
Holdings, Ltd.
r T~'HE sharemarket expecta-
-*• tion of a fat profit from
International Resistance Hold-
ings last term has certainly
been realised —even if lingering
hopes of a further lift in the
div.-rate failed to materialise
—a 74.7 p.c. leap in net earn-
ings featuring in the accounts
for the year to June 30 last.
Through five wholly-owned
subsidiaries I.R.H. manufac-
tures, imports and distributes
an extensive range of electrical
resistances, capacitors, trans-
formers, coils, insulated cables,
tapes, etc., for use in radio
a 4 n d television - receivers,
domestic and industrial
appliances and automotive
electrical equipment.
The business was established
in 1934, when Industrial Resis-
tance Co. (A/sia) Pty. was
formed to manufacture resis-
tors under licence from Inter-
national Resistance Co. of
U.S.A. The present parent co.
was registered in Sydney in
1950, exchanging scrip with a
par-value of £171,930 for the
paid capitals of International
Resistance (A/sia), Wm. J.
McKellar and Co. Pty.,
National Transformers Pty.
(all of Sydney) and Austra-
lasian Engineering Equipment
Pty. (Melbourne). In the follow-
ing year the share-capital of
Conqueror Cables Pty.


Your SAVINGS can
earn EXTRA MONEY
for any period from
6 months to 5 years
At interest rates up to
Interest paid
every 3 months
6 months 5%
9 months 5£%.
1 year 6%
2 years 61%
3 years 7%
4 years
in this new
o
o
9 JVe
£600,000 Registered First Mortgage
DEBENTURE ISSUE
DIRECT
CASH ORDERS
LIMITED
18 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. BW 1633, BW 6428
APPLICATIONS: Prospectus containing full details
and application fonns is available from: —
• THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES (any branch in
N.S.W.)
• Any member of a recognised STOCK EXCHANGE
• DIRECT CASH ORDERS LIMITED
TRUSTEE FOR DEBENTURE STOCK HOLDERS: —
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited).
UNDERWRITING BROKERS Ralph w. King &
Yuill, Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
DIRECTORS:
F. E. JONES
W. J. Farram
J. W. Douglass
MAIL THIS COUPON to Direct Cash Orders Ltd.
18 Martin Place, Sydney. Please send me your prospectus.
NAME
ADDRESS.
10364 a
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many year* to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHREDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnettinff Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etx,. Makers of Classitlers,
Water -Filters, Steam Valves,
(Sydney) was bought at a cost
of £12,500 in scrip and £12,500
in cash.
With the anticipated needs
of the electronics industry in
mind, 1.R.H., several years
back, embarked on a sizeable
expansion-programme and,
over the past five terms, has
more than trebled the written-
down value of fixed assets. As
a result the group has been in
a good position to cash-in on
the current TV boom, its
success in this direction being
indicated by movements in the
earning-rate on ord. capital—
-13 p.c. in 1955-56, 21.7 p.c. in
1957 and a healthy 39 p.c. last
term.
The brisk rate of expansion
has given shareholders in the
parent co. ample opportunity
to increase their holdings, par
issues in 1951 (one-for-two),
1952 (one-for-four), and 1956
(one-for-two) lifting ord. capi-
tal from £184,430 to £525,000,
a further £lOO,OOO of 1\ p.c.
pref. capital (raised in 1955)
taking the total on the share-
register to £625,000. Borrowed
funds have also been used to
finance the growth of the
organisation (a growth evident
throughout the business and
not merely in those sections
catering for the TV industry),
£70,000 being raised on 6 p.c.
notes in 1954 and £150.000, on
7 p.c. notes participating to
9 p.c., in 1957.
Cut from 10 p.c. to 3 p.c.
in 1953, when a faltering turn-
over slashed earnings, the ord.
div.-rate was restored to 10
p.c. in the following year, the
current 124 p.c. rate being
adopted in 1957.
All operating subsidiaries
traded profitably last term, in
a market generally favorable
to the products turned-out or
distributed by the group, the
improvement in sales of items
u c ed in the manufacture of
TV-receivers easily outstrip-
ping gains in other directions.
Nevertheless, while increased
demand for TV-components
was, no doubt, the chief factor
behind the spring in net profit,
the sale of other lines is
reported to have made “a sub-
stantial contribution” to group
results:
International Resistance Holdings
and Subsidiaries. Re-
June Profit. Pref. , Ord.- — serves.*
30, £ £ p.c. £ £
74 p.c.
’54.. 40.756 10 = 35,000 126,123
’55.. 64,879 1563 10 = 35,000 154,380
Revaluat’n freeholds £35,906 190,346
’66.. 60,638 7500 10 = 40,834 202,650
’57..121,706 7500 65,625 251,231
Tax overprovided, £5850 . . 257,081
Share- and note-issue ex-
penses w/off, £12,630 .. 244,451
’5B-212,659 7500 124=65,626 883,984
* Subject to intangibles, £139,755 at
30/6/’5B.
Reckoned after providing
£139,400 (up £45,120) for
taxation and £35,484 (up
£6442) for depreciation, net
earnings were written £90,953
stronger at £212,659, or
times the figure returned in
1955-56.
Expenditure on fixed assets
continued apace during the
year, a net £66,347 going into
plant and £55,028 into free-
holds (shown at cost or valua-
tion, less depreciation). This
outlay, along with an extra
£112,506 in book-debts and
£28,233 in stocks, was com-
fortably financed from undis-
tributed profits and a £118,380
increase in outside liabilities
and provisions, working-
capital advancing by £15,590 to
£587,378:
Capital— 1957. 1958.
Pref £lOO.OOO £lOO.OOO
Old 525,000 525,000
Reserves.. .. 251,231 383,984
Notes .. .. 220,000 220,000
Mortgages .. 111,303 108,432
Overdraft .. 6,084 48,112
Creditors, etc.*.. 262,140 347,927
Final div. .. 43,125 36,563
£1,518,883 £1,770,018
Freehold, plant,
etc 525,471 646,846
Stocks . . . . 491,111 519,344
Debtors, etc. . . 346,217 458,723
Cash . . . . 2,684 5,350
Intangibles 153,400 • 139,755
£1,518,883 £1,770,018
* Includes provision for taxation.
Maintenance of the current
level of earnings in the 1958-59
term should be within the
group’s capabilities, but share-
holders’ chances of collecting
a larger slice of the profits
could be affected by planned
outlay on fixed assets and the
board’s undisclosed plans for
repayment of the £70,000 of
6 p.c. note-money due in
November, 1959. The share-
market takes a reasonably
optimistic attitude and prices
the f.-p. ss. ords. at 15s. 6d.
cum div., to return an effective
£4 3s. 3d. p.c. from a 121 p.c.
distribution.


EXTRA MONEY
FOR COUNTRY WORKERS
I WILL PAY big money for so-
called “worthless” OPAL MATRIX
(small opal veins in rock). Collect
from abandoned mines and send to
T. STANLEY, Rox 34U, G.P.0.,
Sydney. All good samples paid for.
Firm orders will follow. Your
chance for' extra money.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
o'sullivam
PTYLTD .
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Tjy'HEN colored people come
to live among whites there
will be a color problem. The
ugly riots at Nottingham and
Notting Hill have brought this
fact embarrassingly and ines-
capably to U.K. notice.
In these instances, though,
the racial issue is a secondary
one. The real cause of the
trouble is Teddy Boy hooli-
ganism. It happens that the
northern part of Notting Hill
is slum property in which,
because accommodation else-
where is hard to find, there is
a heavy concentration of
colored immigrants. This
district (where, in any event,
street-brawling is an everyday
occurrence) is a convenient
spot for making trouble ; and,
though the larrikins needed no
encouragement, a small Fascist
element has done its best to
provoke them. Just as, in other
days, gangs of toughs have set
about Jews, Yanks, Poles,
Irish —or any other scapegoat
minority—now it is “those
niggers.”
The trouble is thus not
primarily black but white.
And the authorities have two
opposing reasons for worry:
the numerical inadequacy of
the police-force, and the estab-
lished truth that the age-group
of the youths is maladjusted
and criminal-prone.
Energetic measures will
undoubtedly be taken to
stamp-out the hooliganism, but
the color problem will remain.
West Indians are neither better
nor worse than other groups
of migrants, and could, no
doubt, be as uneventfully
absorbed as were, for example,
the refugees from Nazi per-
secution —if they were not
colored. But they have them-
selves found-out what officially
has been denied—that a color-
bar exists in Britain. True,
they can come and go freely
as citizens of the Common-
wealth, but unless they have
thick skins (and they rarely
do) sooner or later they be-
come sensitive to the color
prejudice which, though con-
cealed and inoffensive, never-
theless exists.
Stereophonic Sound
Rumors that the boom in
the radio and allied trades has
fiattened-out a little were not
borne-out by a visit to the
25th Radio Show at Earl’s
Court. The exhibits were as
proud and glossy as in other
years. Yet, with one excep-
tion, there was nothing sensa-
tional or innovatory.
Competition undoubtedly is
keener. Manufacturers of TV-
sets have again ingeniously
met this —and increased pro-
duction-costs —by clever
design. Sets are shallower, the
tube-angle is wider (90 degrees
is normal, 110 degrees is
coming), the price of the 17-
inch table model has been held
at 67-69 guineas, and a few
manufacturers have even
managed reductions of up to
five guineas.
The one innovation was so-
called stereophonic sound. A
large area upstairs was given
to the demonstration, by 40
exhibitors, of this new develop-
ment. It is plain, both from the
publicity campaign and from
the attractively designed models
in the shops, that the trade con-
fidently believes that “mon-
aural” listening is on the way
out.
The demonstrations were im-
pressive but certainly not
sensational (as, for instance,
were electrical recording and
the first LP records). One
suspects that the idea is based
on a fallacy—that because
vision is stereoscopic, so is
hearing.
Furthermore, technical and
other requirements are not
easily satisfied. In the ideal,
the twin speakers must be
large and set about 30ft. apart,
there must be no heavy furni-
ture to “unbalance the reflec-
tions,” and the listeners must
sit plumb on the centre-line
between the speakers. Hardly
easy to arrange in the average
home!
The jargon, too, is a little
frightening. Here is an
example from this month's
“Gramophone”:
“I prefer to have omni-directional
speakers as far apart as possible in
combination with directional
squirters. But there should be a
frequency overlap between the two.
The omni-directional units should
go up to at least lOkc/s. and the
squirters down to at least 3kc/s.
and an octave lower is better ... It
is only when one has two complete,
long-range speaker systems, with
outputs properly balanced, that
stereo springs to life.”
The mention of an octave is
timely, else we might forget the
real object— to listen to the
music.
Roving Spotlight
The autumn prospect in the
theatre is interesting rather
than exciting. Managements
seem to have fallen back on
their old, safe ways of bring-
ing over established successes
from America and France.
Undoubtedly the audience for
the straight play is a limited
one. N. C. Hunter’s best work,
the splendidly constructed and
by no means intellectual
“Touch of the Sun,” ran for
only six months, and that most
competent and unusual thriller,
“Any Other Business,” is to
come off after five months.
The general public, as manage-
ments well know, is rarely to
be drawn by merit alone;
there must also be novelty or
sensation or star-attraction.
T. S. Eliot’s “Elder States-
man,” which ha& just had its
premiere in Edinburgh, is the
only new play of significance,
and, though the 69-year-old
poet has spread his ideas more
widely and conventionally,
advance reports are respectful
rather than enthusiastic.
It is good news that the Old
Vic is, after five years, to play
other classics besides Shak-
speare. Stephen Spender’s
adaptation of Schiller’s “Mary
Stuart,” which also has been
seen in Edinburgh, is to open
the season.
After having lost so much
money in presenting trans-
atlantic musicals at Drury Lane
and the Coliseum, managers are
understandably wary of con-
tinuing these ventures (the
latter theatre, they affirm,
cannot be filled over a long
period by one show), but
“Auntie Marne,” due at the
Adelphi, promises to enjoy
immediate success. With
Beatrice Lillie as the “bit of
a whack, all whipped - cream
and champagne and day-
dreams,” and Florence Des-
mond as her feckless com-
panion, the show has 27 scenes
in such diverse settings as the
Deep South, the Pyramids, the
Swiss Alps and Macey’s
bargain-basement.
George Tabori’s comedy,
“Brouhaha” (Aldwych theatre),
is the only new production to
have broken the lull, mainly
with smoking-concert guffaws.
It is a surrealistic absurdity
about an impoverished Near
East Sultan and his adventures
with emissaries from England,
America and Russia. The
radio “goon,” Peter Sellers,
appeared to have a large per-
sonal following (which, in fair-
ness, he made no attempt to
encourage) given to laughing
in the wrong places and at the
double meanings liberally
sprinkled in the dialogue.
Lionel Jeffries, as the empty-
headed British Resident,
chatters his way engagingly
through the first act, and Leo
McKern, looking exactly like
Mr. Khrushchev, invests his
fooling with both relish and
good acting. Some of the off-
beat effects (the “cod” music
especially) are good, but the
production, by Peter Hall, is so
overrun with tricks and extrava-
gances that its fussiness becomes
irritating. Tabori’s writing,
though fecund in ideas, is
inclined to be slapdash,
brazenly courts the quick laugh
and lacks the discipline essential
to the playwright.


HOW LUCKY
CAN YOU BE?
By J. C. SHELLEY
Out Speewah way they
have a suspicion that
Crooked Mick knows
what did happen lo
Bernie the Bastard, who was the
men’s cook on Bunglethecoot
the time Mick had the contract
to lay 50 miles of pipeline for
old Mclntosh. But, if he
guesses at their suspicious
glances, Crooked Mick keeps
what he knows to himself.
Speewah had had moderate
rain. That is, it had rained
for a full month, day and night
without ceasing. Heavy rain is
different out that way. Heavy
rain falls twice as heavily and
continues for two months or
more. Showers are those
itinerant will-o’-the-wisp things
that rush up, gush wetly for a
couple of days and fleet away
over the horizon having hardly
dampened the dust.
It’s a dry area
around Speewah,
except for Slabface
Joe’s beer, which is
second to none in
Australia.
Crooked Mick
was still busy in the
third week of this
moderate rain. A
month or two
before, against
strong opposition
from “f orei g n”
firms, he’d secured
Mclntosh’s contract
to lay 50 miles of
ISin. pipeline from
the river to the
homestead. Mc-
Intosh, who owned
Bunglethecoot, some
50,000 acres of
sheep-land on the
plain north-west of
the Gnashing
Teeth Mountains,
had found himself with
some surplus money and
decided to install this pipeline
to bring water from the river
to the homestead. It was a big
job, iron pipe electric-welded at
the joints.
Mick started the job at the
river in the dry, working in
towards the homestead for the
first 25 miles. But he’d been
a bit worried in the beginning
and worked long hours, doing
the welding of a night after his
men had knocked-off for the
day. Seen from Speewah, the
blue, trembling haze of the
welder in the night sky had
made a lot of people think that
there were queer electrical
storms to the nor’-west that
year.
And when it set-in to rain,
at the most unexpected time of
the year, people blamed Mick
for it. They reckoned it was
the bombardment of the cool
night air by the rays of the
welder that had caused it ail,
and some of them wanted to
have Mick stopped before he
caused a flood. Crooked Mick
wasn’t interested in what they
said ; he had a contract to
finish, rain or no rain. He
transferred his equipment into
the homestead, erected a rough
shelter of galvanised iron and
continued his work there after
he got rid of his men with the
exception of Bardy.
"Crom somewhere or other,
Mick got hold of one of
those old traction-engines,
hauled it close to the shed,
mounted it on blocks, ran a
wire rope from the winding-
gear out across the plain to
where the pipeline ended from
the river, reeved the wire rope
through a snatch-block fastened
to an anchor in the ground and
brought the free end of the
wire back to the shed ; a simple
but highly efficient bit of work.
As Mick welded each section
of pipe together, Bardy would
start-up the winch and haul
the lengthening line of pipe a
little further out across the
plain. The front end of this
pipe, attached to the wire rope,
ploughed a gutter in the soil
into which the following length
of pipe lay, and the rain gradu-
ally washed the soil back into
place. It was estimated by the
men about the station that Mick
stood to make about £lO,OOO
profit on the job from this
lurk alone.
Mick had no comments on
that. His private thoughts
were that he had turned the
rain to his advantage. There
was probably nowhere else in
the world where such a scheme
could have been adopted. The
desert to the nor’-west of the
Gnashing Teeth Mountain was
as fiat as a billiard-table and
as devoid of trees as a frog
of feathers.
On the other hand, Mick was
still worried. Out where the
two pipelines were to meet, the
contract called for a surge-
pipe. The idea of this surge-
pipe was an engineering one,
to iron-out any uneven flow of
water along the pipeline itself.
The surge-pipe was to stand
vertically, some 20ft. in the
air from a T-piece in the pipe-
line. A simple engineering
practice that, in itself, was
nothing. Crooked Mick’s worry
was to get it out there and
in place to complete his con-
tract on time.
But the plain being blacksoil
and with all that rain on it
making it impassable, there was
nothing to transport the surge-
pipe. According to the station-
hands it was a stalemate.
But Crooked Mick hadn’t
thrown the towel in yet. He’d
been in tight places before and
always found a way out. On
the other hand, he had some-
thing to look forward to if
the job cut-out in time —Slab-
face Joe’s' beer. Joe would
cash Mclntosh’s cheque no
matter how big it was. Mick
was looking forward to six-
months’ rest. He reckoned after
this job he could do with that
amount.
TX7hile the rain continued,
Mick’s workshop became
the meeting-place for all the
station-hands of a daytime.


COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET as at 30th June, 1958
LIABILITIES. £
Central Banking Business—
Capital .. .. 4,000,000
Reserve Fund ~ .. , 4 ~ 18,771,655
Rural Credits Department—-
Capital 2,714,000
Reserve Fund , . . , , , , , 1,216,700
Mortgage Bank Department—-
Capital . , 5,428,000
Reserve Fund 723,585
Industrial Finance Department—>
Capital 5.429,000
Reserve Fund .. , ~ . . 3,321,213
- . , „ 41,604.153
Special Reserve—Premium on gold sold .. .. ~ .. 4,754,954
Notes on issue . . . . 384,548,080
Deposits—
Special accounts of trading banks .. .. .. 275,159,000
Other deposits of trading banks . . . . . . . . . . 28,244,502
Other deposits, bills payable and other liabilities (including
provision for contingencies) .. .. .. .. 284,178.913
Total 1,018,490,202
ASSETS. £
Gold and balances held abroad (including money at short call) .. 431.583,008
Australian notes and coin . . . , .. .. . . .. 2,552,261
Cheques and bills of other banks .... .. .. .. 8,128,875
Commonwealth Government - Securities (including Commonwealth
Treasury Bills) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 445,642,824
Securities of other governments and of local and semi-governmcntal
authorities .. .. .. .. .. .. 47,404,076
Bills receivable and remittances in transit .. .. .. .. 8,779,611
Bank premises (at cost less amounts written off) . . . . . . 690,936
Loans, advances, etc. (after deducting provision for debts con-
sidered bad or doubtful) :
Central Banking Business . . .. ... .. ~ 3,000.000
Rural Credits Department . . . . . . . . .. 34,793,896
Mortgage Bank Department . . . . . . . . . . 5,787,221
Industrial Finance Department .. .. .. .. .. 25.573,745
Other assets . , .. .. ~ .. . . .. . . 4,653,689
Total 1,018.490,202
Note. —lnter-departmental accounts totalling £27,733,599 have been offset.
r)r - PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30tli .TUNE, 1958 Cr.
£
Central Banking Business—
To National Debt Sinking Fund .. .. .. ~ 5,051,424
To Commonwealth Bank Reserve Fund .. .. ~ .. 5,05L424
Note Issue Department—
To Commonwealth Treasury .. .. 12,592,626
Rural Credits Department—
To Rural Credits Department Reserve Fund .. .. .. 92,293
To Rural Credits Development Fund .. .. ~ .. 92^293
Mortgage Bank Department—-
To Mortgage Bank Department Reserve Fund ~ .. .. 110,124
Industrial Finance Department—
To Industrial Finance Department Reserve Fund .. .. 405.029
_ To ' rAL •» 23,395,213
£
By Profits (after provision for contingencies)—
Central Banking Business . . . . . . . . .. .. 10,102.848
Note Issue Department .. .. .. .. .. .. 12,592.020
Rural Credits Department . . .. .. . . . . . . 184,586
Mortgage Bank Department .. .. . . . . . . .. 110,124
Industrial Finance Department .. .. .. ~ .. .. 405,029
Total .. 23,395.213
" e certify that the above Balance-sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the several Offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
Secretary. (Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor.
(Sgd.) W. P. ESKPALE, Chief Accountant. Sydney, 22nd August, 1958.
COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th June, 1958
LIABILITIES. £
Capital 5,429,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 2,995,521
Deposits, bills payable and other liabilities (including provision
for contingencies) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 271,889,145
Balances due to other banks .. .. ~ .. ~ 876,005
Total .. .. '281,189,071
ASSETS. £
Coin, bullion, notes and cash at bankers .. 16,180,598
Money at short call—
(a) London .. .. .. .. .. ~ .. 1,750,000
(b) Elsewhere . . . . . . . . . . .. . . ..
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank . . . . . . .. 37,650,000
Cheques and bills of other banks and balances with and due
from other banks . . . . .. .. . . . . . . 3,726,226
Treasury Bills—
(a) Australian Governments 10,000,000
(b) Other Governments .. .. .. .. ....
Public securities (excluding treasury bills) ——
(a) Australian Governments .. .. .. .. .. .. 46,747,869
(b) Other Governments .. . . . . . . . . ..
(e) Local and semi-governmental authorities . . . . . . 1,298.090
Bills receivable and remittances in transit . . . . . . . . 38.000,367
Bank premises (at cost less amounts written off). .. .. 4,397,585
Loans, advances and bills discounted (alter deducting provision
for debts considered bad or doubtful) . . . . . . . . 117,984,689
Other assets . . .. .. . . .. .. . . . . 3,454.247
Total 281,189,071
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 80th JUNE, 1958 Cr.
£
To National Debt Sinking Fund .. .. .. .. 260,131
To Commonwealth Trading Bank Reserve Fund 260J31
Total 520,262
£
By Profits (after provision for contingencies) ». .. .. 520,262
Total . . . . .. .. .. . . 520,262
We cert ' f - v the above Balance-sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the several Offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
(Sgd.) A. N. ARMSTRONG, General Manager. (Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor.
fSgd.) S. J. HEATI.EY. Chief Accountant. Sydney, 22nd August, 1958.
COMMONWEALTH SAVINGS BANK OF AUSTRALIA
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th June, 1958
LIABILITIES. £
Reserve Fund 9,918.449
Depositors’ balances and accrued interest .. .. .. .. 734,321,462
Other liabilities (including provision for contingencies) .. 18,976,470
Total 763,216,387
ASSETS. £
Australian notes and coin .. .. .. „ .. .. 1,074.980
Cash balances and money at short call . . . . . . . . 69,624,718
Commonwealth Government Securities (including Commonwealth
Treasury Bills) .. 467,718,357
Securities of other governments and of local and semi-govern-
mental authorities .. . . .. .. .. .. .. 83,170,568
Bank premises (at cost less amounts written off) . . . . . . 8,612,137
Loans and advances . . . . . . . . .. . . . . 119,299,203
Other assets .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 13,716,424
Total .. .. . . .. .. .. 763,216.387
Pr - PROFIT AND LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1958 Cr.
„ £
to National Debt Sinking Fund .. «. .. .. .. 437,463
To Savings Bank Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 437,403
Total .. .. 874.926
£
By Profits (after provision for payments amounting to £540,796
due to State Authorities under Savings Bank Amalgamation
Agreements and after provision for contingencies) ~ ~ 874,926
Total .. .. ~ .. .. ~ 874.926
certify that the above Balance-sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the several Offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
G. T. SEA RLE, Chief Superintendent. (Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor.
ISu-d.l K. R. BARNETT, Chtef Accountant (Acting ) Sydney. 22nd August, 1958.
Certificates as to the correctness of these Accounts have been given by the Auditor-General for the Commonwealth (Mr. H. C. Newman).


There was nothing they could
do, so to pass the time between
meals they’d converge on Mick,
get their backs against a post,
slide down on their heels, roll
endless cigarettes and help
Mick with the pipeline. So far
they had completed 50 or more
of these lines, all bigger and
better and longer than the one
Crooked Mick was working on.
Towards 10-o’clock of a
morning the babbler would
come waddling over from his
cookhouse for a few minutes’
inspection of Mick’s work. The
cook was a big man ; 22 stone,
to be exact. There was a yarn
about Bernie that once upon
a time he had a girl-friend who,
when she put her arms round
him, left a chalk-mark where
her arms reached to, then
walked round the other side of
him to complete the embrace.
Bernie was a silent soul, but
an excellent cook and as cranky
as a scrub-cow with a calf at
foot. He had two other
attributes ; he slept like a log,
and ate nothing but meat, one
hindquarter of beef a day being
his ration. What was left-over
a blackfeller’s dog would
starve on. The rare time that
Bernie cut himself when shaving
he’d bleed like a stuck pig, and
the boys reckoned his. blood
was as red as claret and as
strong as the Speewah river in
full flood.
Bernie the Bastard and
Crooked Mick had one thing
in common—they loved duck-
shooting. When the babbler
arrived in the shed of a morn-
ing, Mick would knock-off
work and they'd both stand
together looking out across the
slowly filling billabong that,
when filled, would cover about
50 acres. * The waterlilies were
beginning to show already, and
the reeds along the waterline
were looking green and lush;
good cover later when the
ducks arrived.
“She’s gonna be a good
season, sure,” Bernie would
intone with reverence and a
suppressed eagerness, to which
Mick would heartily agree. In
a way he was looking forward
to a bit of shooting as well.
Beer-drinking and duck-shoot-
ing were good sport.
“But what you reckon about
the skeeters?” Bernie would
ask with compulsive repulsion ;
he was allergic to mosquitoes.
Mick would reply that perhaps
this season they wouldn’t be
quite so bad.
/Completion of the pipeline
coincided with the ending
of the rain, but the black-soil
plain would still remain im-
passable for a fortnight. And
now Crooked Mick began to
worry in earnest; there were
only four days of the contract
left, and in that time he had
to get the surge-pipe out and
in position,
Sitting on the edge of his
bunk and feeling depressed
about the job, he was stung
with a brilliant idea. He was
watching a horde of mosquitoes
feasting hungrily on his fore-
arm when the idea was born
to him.
Speewah mosquitoes are
peculiar insects. Immediately
after the cessation of moderate
rain they appear in myriads,
tiny little grey monsters no
bigger than a pinhead at first,
But grow . . .! Twenty-four
hours after birth they are as
big as house-flies; within
another 24 hours they vie with
dogs for size, while three days
after birth they are so large
you can drive a sedan-car
between their legs without
brushing the dust off the duco.
After reaching this stage the
Speewah mosquito rapidly out-
grows itself; that is why plagues
are only of passing moment,
Watching these mosquitoes
feeding on his arm, Crooked
Mick saw the answer to his
problem of getting the surge-
pipe into position on time. His
e y es sparkled at the thought,
and he hunted around until
he found an empty boot-box,
into which he placed 30 of
these mosquitoes along with a
handful of filings from the
drilling-machine in the black-
smith’s shop that he first
saturated with a pint of blood
from a vein in his arm.
Next night, when Mick
cautious , J ned the , id o£
box / the iron filings were
and the mosquitoes were
» s h as a star^ing pack of
dingoe '/ Mick shut B f he fi d
b sat 0 „ ; whj]e he fashioned
30 f hamess (rom some
. fishing . i ine .
Harnessi % ach
separately-by which time it
wa F s near y midnight _c rooked
M ick went along to the cook's
r 0 th(J tethe B ed mosquitoes
hovedng above hinl like a
c|uster ba| , oons at a show .
crounc i
Bern j e slept in a box-
]jk bed entirely sun . ounded
by “ double-layer of
n ’ osquito _ wire . Opening the
door j nto this area Mick herded
hjs mob jn to as and while
, h d thenl selves on the
bab , b i’ r ' s ! ’ blood Mick sat on an
U pt ur ned box and smoked end-
less c j gare tt es with the ends of
30 fishing-lines held firmly in
his hands. He wasn’t taking
any chances of losing any of
his prize team,
The cook looked a bit
washed-out next day, but no
one commented. Bernie wasn’t
the type of man yon could ask"
casual questions. That night
Mick turned his mob out again
to feed on Bernie’s blood ; and
in daylight the babbler was a
sorry sight to see. He looked
like the punctured tyre of a
tractor and he said to Mick
that he was feeling a bit
washed-up.
r T'HE third night, after every-
one was safely in bed,
Mick got his team out. But by
now they’d grown so that he
could handle only half-a-dozen
at a time, and even then it was
as much as he could do to keep
his feet on the ground as he
reefed and tugged and cursed
them down to the surge-pipe
on the ground outside the shed.
During the day Mick had
welded 30 ringbolts along
the length of the pipe, and now
he was able to secure one
mosquito by its harness to
each bolt. When he had them
all coupled-up the din above
his head was like the roar of
a storm approaching across
the plain.
Satisfied, Mick rolled a slow
cigarette, hitched-up the belt of
his jodphurs, pushed up the
brim of his old black hat, arid
went along to Bernie’s room for
the last time. The cook was
so exhausted from the loss of
blood in the last couple of
days he was sleeping almost
soundlessly, and never stirred
when Mick inserted the quill
from a turkey into a vein and
drained off a quart of blood.
With the blood in a corked
demijohn, Crooked Mick
mounted his horse and rode
down to where the yoked
mosquitoes roared in the night.
He had a long pole with a lump
of rag on its end, and this
he soaked in blood from the
demijohn and waved the rag
high above the mosquitoes.
The roar of wings rose to a
mad crescendo in the night as
the mosquitoes worked franti-
cally. Slowly at first, the pipe
began to lift off the ground ;
and Mick rode off a bit, then
touched spurs to the flanks of
the mare as the mosquitoes
caught up with them. Within a
mile from the homestead
Mick’s horse was at a canter,
and later at the gallop. It
was only the mosquitoes’
staying - power petering - out
beyond the 24-mile peg that
saved Crooked Mick and his
mare from being overtaken and
devoured.
When, just on daylight, Mick
had the surge-pipe properly in
position, he shattered the
demijohn with his axe and
left the mosquitoes to the
contents. He reckoned they’d
earned what was left, and he
didn’t begrudge it to them as
he rode back towards the home-
stead satisfied with the night’s
work. The job was finished. As
he stood at the open end of
the pipe near Bunglethecoot
homestead, water from the
river 50 miles away came
gurgling and gushing out.
Tt was time for a bit of relaxa-
tion, Crooked Mick thought,
so he went to town and brought
out a nine, which he shared
with Bernie.
The good beer put new life
into the washed-out cook, and
towards afternoon he was look-
ing forward to a bit of duck-
shooting. Through the cook-
house window they could see
the ducks far out on the billa-
bong.
The sight made Bernie
tremble with anticipation.
“They’ll drift in towards the
weeds at sundown,” Mick
opined. “We'll wait for them
in the reeds.”
“The last time I was duck-
shooting,” Bernie-the-liar said
with a gleam in his eyes, “1
got seventy-two ducks with one
shot. That was down on the
Murray, of course.”
“You could do better than
that here at Speewah,” Mick
remarked, after a moment of
thought. “You never know
what can happen hereabouts
until you give her a go, mate.”
“There'll never be another
HORSE
Shining-eyed, immense,
Horse looking over the fence
Sees over the high boards
A world too fine for words.
Horse is thinking, of course.
What are your thoughts, horse?
Color and shape and noise,
Dogs, people and boys,
So long as they keep going
Like scenes in water flowing
He chews them over like grass
A nd all the things that pass
Taste strange and rich ami
good.
But when down the sunny road
Flashing like proud relations
To far bright destinations
The cars come silent-hooved
Then indeed he is moved;
Like swans in the water they
wander
All through his dim brain's
wonder.
The world’s magnificence
Over the high board fence
Passes all eloquence,
And that’s horse sense.
N.S.W. DOUGLAS STEWART


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
ST
m
s
C u
NEW ISSUE
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LTD.
Australia’s Leading Hire Purchase Organisation, announces a new issue of
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
7% p.a. • • 6 yrs.
6i% p.a. • . 4 yrs.
5i% p.a. • • 2 yrs.
5% p.a. •• • I yr.
4i% p.a. o « 9 mths.
4% p.a. # # 6 mths.
3 2% p.a. •• 3 mths*
*
I.A.C. guarantees fixed quarterly income, free of exchange. For full details, see Prospectus.
These are facts that the wise investor should know.
PAID UP CAPITAL
£ 10,000,000
ASSETS EXCEED
£55,000,000
A copy of the Prospectus has been
lodged with the Registrar General
in all Capital Cities and Canberra.
Our Auditors, Messrs. L. B. Wallace & Son,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.) wish to state
that as at 31st July, 1958, the amount of issued
Debenture Stock was £23,346,090 secured by a
first floating charge over the tangible assets
of the Company which amounted to
£58,626,014 at that date.
Your copy of the Prospectus is available from Members of Stock Exchanges, 703
Branches of A.N.Z. Bank Limited or I.A.C. Branches.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
(Established 28 years)
MELBOURNE • SYDNEY • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART • CANBERRA
• NEWCASTLE • GEELONG • WOLLONGONG • BUNBURY
Underwriting Brokers:
lan Potter & Co.,
Melbourne, Canberra & Sydney.
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders:
The Perpetual Executors & Trustees Association
of Australia Limited.
D9B
shot like that!” Bernie said
quickly. “I never saw birds
come in like they did before.
They were coming in in
echelons seven layers deep. I
aimed at the top flight. Bang!
Ten birds; and as those ten
birds fell they collided with
ten other birds in the next
flight beneath them, and so on
right down through the six
layers seventy-two dead
ducks.”
Crooked Mick plucked-up
enough courage to ask where
the extra two came into the
picture.
“They were the vanguard
that had arrived early in the
piece,” Bernie said without
blinking an eye. “They were
swimming on the water when
the other seventy fell
kerplunk! fair on top of
them.”
“I’ll pay that one,” Mick
said quietly. “And all I hope,
for your sake, mate, is that
Speewah comes up to expecta-
tions.”
“So do I,” said Bernie with
feeling. “I can trace my
wanderings over the face of
Australia by the unusual ex-
periences that have befallen
me.”
O undown found Crooked
Mick* and Bernie the
Bastard crawling slowly through
the reeds around the billabong.
Parting the last fringe of
rushes, Bernie eased his gun
into position and squinted
across the miles of placid water
mirroring the few clouds in the
sky; and he whispered from
the corner of his mouth to
Mick, “Make a noise like a
mother duck, mate.”
Mick did his best.
“You’re doin’ fine, mate,”
Bernie encouraged him, squirm-
ing his big frame delightedly
among the rushes. “Give her
another go, for Gawd-sake.
There’s ten - thousand ducks
heading this way with a wave a
foot high in front of ’em. Just
as soon as I can see the whites
of their eyes I’m gonna let
fly!”
But right at the height of
Bernie’s suspense the sky
darkened above them and the
air was filled with the frantic
beating of 30 pairs of wings.
Came a signal and down
plummeted the dive-bombers
to bury their barbs deep in
the cook’s flesh. For a
moment there was a strange
stillness over the world, then
30 pairs of wings lifted with
a roar that swept the wind down
over Mick like a gale.
Crooked Mick looked up
into the startled face of Bernie
the Bastard borne away across
the darkening plain. “Keep
your chin up, mate,” he called
after the departing cook;
“they’ll drop you soon as your
blood runs out.”
He walked towards the huts
in a thoughtful mood,, recalling
how, when the idea of shifting
the surge-pipe by mosquito-
power had first occurred to him,
he’d almost been tempted to
train the mosquitoes on his
own blood!
How lucky can you be?


Rise of the Country party in New South Wales
Farmers In Parliament
When M. F. Bruxner resigned the
leadership of the N.S.W. Country
party a few months ago it was
commented that his stepping-
down marked the end of an era.
Bruxner is the only survivor in the
N.S.W. Parliament —in Canberra D. H.
Drummond is M.H.R. for New England
-—of the True Blue Progressives who sat
as a party from 1921-25 and were the
nucleus of the N.S.W. Country party.
This year is thus an appropriate time
for looking back to the origins and
development of the party of which Mick
Bruxner was one of the founders and
the first leader.
This is exactly what Ulrich Ellis has
done in The Country Party (F. W.
Cheshire Pty., Ltd.), subtitled “A Political
and Social History of the Party in New
South Wales.” Mr. Ellis was for many
years political secretary to Sir Earle Page,
a publicist for the Country party, a
member of various New State organisa-
tions —in 1932 he published New Aus-
tralian States —and he now directs the
Office of Rural Research, Canberra,
Early Attempts
A lthough the Country party did not
arrive on the political scene as a real
entity until the early 1920’5, Ellis suggests
that the forces which led to its establish-
ment were already at work a century
ago. Chief of these was the resentment
of country people at the domination of
Governments by Big City interests.
Melbourne merchants, for example,
pulled every string they could to kill
river traffic on the Murray and to retain
the Murray Valley and Riverina trade
for themselves. In 1870 more than 200
steamers cleared Echuca, the biggest
river-port, but thereafter the effect of
trade-boycotts, secret rebates and pressure
on Government policy was increasingly
felt. Railways were pushed closer to
the Murray. Echuca was reached in
1864, Wodonga in 1872. In N.S.W. a
similar policy of channelling Riverina
trade to Sydney was followed.
The Big City policy did not apply only
to the Murray River lands. The whole
railway-system of N.S.W. was designed to
bring trade to Sydney rather than to
natural seaports on the north and south
codst. In 1863 Sir Henry Parkes spoke
of a railway to connect the New England
Tableland with a port at the mouth of
the Clarence River. That was 95 years
ago ; the railway hasn’t been built yet.
Ellis comments:
Thus early metropolitan monopolists
exerted a dismal influence on country
development, initiated trends which resulted
in the undue concentration of population
in metropolitan capitals, killed the Murray
River navigation trade, placed brakes on the
progress of the Riverina, prevented the
growth of inland manufacturing and trading
centres, imposed severe financial hardships
on the public railway system, and erected
obstacles to the extension of local self-
government.
As the 19th century grew old the
concentration of the population in the
capitals increased, and with it the political
influence of city-dwellers. In the country
a growing sense of frustration led to
attempts to organise the rural vote for the
common good of all people on the land.
Rise of the F.S.A.
T> ecounting the growth of this move-
ment, Ellis says that the Free
Selectors’ Association, formed by James
Gormly at Wagga in 1875, was typical of
similar bodies in other parts of N.S.W.,
but despite frequent discussion among
them full co-operation was long in
coming. The real landmark was a con-
ference organised by Gormly, G. F.
Plunkett and M. M. Ryan at Wagga in
1892. Delegates from many organisations
discussed amalgamation, and in the fol-
lowing year 130 delegates met at Coota-
mundra and formed the Farmers and
Settlers’ Association. d
No attempt at direct Parliamentary
representation was made, but a group of
M.L.A.s representing country electorates
formed a “Country party” within George
Dibbs’s Protectionist party and followed
a policy closely related to that of the
Farmers and Settlers’ Association.
This arrangement continued for about
10 years, but after Federation, with the
disappearance of Protection as an issue
in State politics, there was a realignment
of forces in the N.S.W. Parliament.
Increasingly dissatisfied with Liberal
policy, and unable to accept Labor's views
on land-tenure, the F.S.A. joined forces
in 1913 with former Labor Minister
George Beeby (later a judge ot, the
Arbitration Court) to form the Pro-
gressive party, which, during World
War I, supported first the Liberals and
then the Nationalists.
After the war the Progressives became
a separate organisation and won 15 seats
at the 1920 elections. Their numbers
included several metropolitan members,
and when, at the end of 1921, the
Nationalists invited them to join a coali-
tion Government, the party split.
W. E. Wearne (who had succeeded
Beeby as leader) and seven members
(mostly from city seats) agreed to swing
along with the Nats., but the remaining
seven stood firm. They were M. F.
Bruxner, E. A. Buttenshaw, D. H.
Drummond, H. Main, M. Kilpatrick,
R. A. Price and T. L. F. Rutledge. Known
as the “True Blues,” they gained two
more seats at the 1922 election and in
1925 became the Country party.
Mick Bruxner led the True Blues and
v/as the first leader of the Country party,
but shortly after its establishment he stood
down for personal reasons and was suc-
ceeded by Buttenshaw. Two years later,
on the defeat of the first Lang Govern-
ment, the Country party entered a com-
posite Government with Bavin’s National
party. It sought five of the 14 portfolios,
but settled for four, including the
Deputy-Premiership for Buttenshaw, who
was also Minister for Works and Rail-
ways. Other Ministers were Bruxner
(Local Government), Drummond (Edu-
cation) and H. V. Thorby (Agriculture).
This more-or-less set the pattern for
subsequent coalitions in the three
Stevens-Bruxner Governments 1932-38
and the Mair-Bruxner Government 1938-
41 Country-party men usually held the
portfolios of Land, Agriculture, Trans-
port, Local Government and Education.
Drummond was Minister for Education
in all the coalition Governments, and
Bruxner administered Transport from
1932 to 1941.
The Country Party reached its peak-
membership in the N.S.W. Parliament
after the second Lang crash in 1932. It
increased its numbers from 12 to 25 —
one more than Labor. Stevens’s U.A.P.
held 41 seats.
Achievements
As an indication of the party’s success
in office, Ellis claims that before its
advent 80 per cent, of N.S.W. public-
works money was spent in the metro-
politan area; in 1941, when the Mair-
Bruxner Government went out of office,
80 per cent, was being spent on country
works. This may have been one of the
reasons why that Government went out
of office, but it is certainly strong evidence
of t the energy of the five Gountry-party
Ministers and their followers.
In the field of education it is claimed
that Country-party influence was respon-
sible for establishing the first country
university in Australia ; the first country
teachers’ training-college in N.S.W.;
the first mobile train for technical educa-
tion in rural areas; the first technical
courses in aviation ; the decentralisation
of educational administration. Other
achievements claimed are legislation to
combat soil-erosion ; the establishment of
a conservation-research station ; introduc-
tion of reafforestation with Australian
timbers; the first timber - technology
department; the first wheat-silos in the
north ; the placing of the Murrumbidgee
rice-industry on a firm basis. In addition
to these positive achievements, says Ellis:
Since the advent of the Country party
it is an undeniable fact that the Labor
and Liberal parties have been forced to pay
greater attention to rural needs and
policies. They have even felt impelled to
arrange for the delivery of separate rural
policy-speeches in election-campaigns.
Perhaps the strongest evidence of the
virility of the Country party is the
frequency of complaints from its Liberal
partners both in Canberra and Sydney
that the tail is wagging the dog.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
{lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILE RUM.
Sydney Spring
Showings
As expected, last Saturday’s
running of the 10-furlongs
Rosehill Guineas helped con-
siderably to clear the A.J.C.
Derby position. Bold Pilot’s
stylish win over Prince Ker-
dieil and Sir Blink, and the
moderate display by some of
the also-ran, indicated that the
blue riband looks like going to
either Bold Pilot (now the
Derby favorite) or Melbourne’s
Sir Blink.
Maybe Sir Blink would have
made the Guineas finish much
more interesting had he secured
a clear run in the final furlong-
and-a-half. Bill Williamson
got into a pocket on Sir Blink,
and astute George Moore, on
the winner, seemed lucky to
find his keenest rival thus
hampered. Even so, the run-
ning points to Bold Pilot as
the best Derby prospect; he ran
his race like a stayer, though
he wasn’t assisted by the slow
pace.
One of the successful Bold
Buccaneer (imp.) gallopers, and
raced by Mrs. H. Porter, Bold
Pilot is a half-brother to Sir
Pilot, a Randwick winner at
the Derby distance (If mile).
Flying Gal, dam of Bold Pilot,
is by Law Maker (imp.) from
Pharsalis by Beau Fils (imp.).
Family-lines also include Hall
Stand, who won the Rosehill
Guineas and then finished
second in the A.J.C. Derby to
Main Topic.
Bill Williamson paid an
expensive visit to Sydney to
ride Sir Blink. When pocketed
in the closing stages of the
race his mount caused inter-
ference to Espalier and Wool-
sack, and stewards suspended
Williamson for one month. He
will miss both the A.J.C. and
the Caulfield Cup carnivals ;
he was to have ridden Young
Idealist in the Epsom and Sir
Blink in the Derby.
N. Sellwood rode Macdougal
(fourth) in the Rosehill Handi-
cap, and coming towards the
finishing-line he had a good
view of his Melbourne Cup
mount Yeman, now a popular
choice for the big two-miler.
Sellwood was engaged to ride
the New Zealander in the Cup
about four days before the
Rosehill event, in which
apprentice Peter Ryan rode a
confident race on Yeman to
beat Monte Carlo, who, how-
ever, seemed a bit unlucky not
to have reversed the positions.
Eudare, a disappointing third,
would need to improve sharply
to win the Metropolitan, let
alone the Melbourne Cup.
Eudare's customary brilliant
dash down the outside of the
field was missing at Rosehill.
Yeman, a dyed-in-the-wool
stayer, realised 500gns. at the
New Zealand yearling-sales in
1954, at which price he has
proved a rare bargain, his wins
having included the Auckland
and the Wellington Cups (both
run at two miles). In the Well-
ington Cup he carried 8.4. He
also ran third in the Trentham
Handicap (two miles) last
March to Llanisfair, who didn’t
do much good in Australia.
However, the time. 3.19, was a
record. Mrs. Alister Williams,
of Te Parae Stud, Masterton,
bred Yeman, and also bred
Straight Draw, who was sold a
few minutes before Yeman for
2000gns.
A plain-looking chestnut six-
year-old gelding by Sabaean
(imp.), Yeman is expected to
have another Sydney outing or
two before going to Melbourne.
His dam, Wardress, was got
by Lord Warden (imp.) from
Clink by Clarenceux (imp.).
Wardress won 12 races in New
Zealand at up to 12 furlongs,
and was placed at two miles,
so Yeman has a solid staying
background. Back in the pedi-
gree figure Beau Vite (31 wins),
Motere (Auckland Cup) and
Gaine Carrington (Caulfield
Cup).
The w.-f.-a. Hill Stakes, one
of the main attractions at the
S.T.C.’s Rosehill course this
coming Saturday, was won last
year and the year before by
Redcraze, ridden by A. Ward.
Last September Redcraze
started at 5 to 2 because Tod-
man was a runner ; Todman
was at 2 to 1 on, but missed
a place. Timor finished
second, and Young Idealist
third. In 1956 Redcraze de-
feated Somerset Fair and
Empire Link.
Jim Pike had an extra-
ordinary run in the Hill Stakes.
He won it eight times —on The
Hawk (twice), Phar Lap
(twice), Chatham (twice), Peter
Pan and Winalot.
If Prince Darius comes
through his Hill Stakes engage-
ment really well an announced
start for him in the Epsom
could result in heavy with-
drawals before final acceptances
next week. Actually, apart from
Prince Darius, Caesar, Young
Idealist, Amanullah, Chieti and
Troy, the likely Epsom line-up
doesn't look particularly strong.
Huntly, a sudden improver
—he has won both at Rand-
wick and at Rosehill on suc-
cessive Saturdays in Welter
company—has come into the
Epsom picture. A solidly built
four-year-old horse, he could
have an excellent show—there’s
no form like winning-form for
any tvpe of race. He has won at
the Epsom distance, and at 7.7
has only 71b. above the'limit.
He carried 9.2 (16!b. above the
limit) in the Rosehill Welter,
but the field, of course, was
much below Epsom standard.
The A.J.C.’s annual two-
year-old barrier-trials under
racing conditions didn’t attract
as many visitors as in some
former years, and unless the
club gives the public more
information next time these
are held interest will fall away
sharply, which would be a pity,
because proceeds go to charity.
Wolarma, French Descent,
Star Eagle, Badenoch, Fine
and Dandy and Gaelic Prince
did best of the colts —many
colts, however, were not at the
trials, connections apparently
not wanting too much pub-
licity about them.
There were two or three
brilliant fillies in the trials,
chief among them Endure, who
won her heat by eight lengths
in 48sec. (best time of the ses-
sion). One of M. Mc-
Carten’s team, Endure is
bred well enough to win
any race. She is by Star King-
dom (imp.) from Persist by
MacArthur from Grail Girl by
Burnewang, and cost 2400gns.
as a yearling. Persist was a top
winning mare, her 12 firsts and
minor placings netting £18,221.
Other fillies that should add
interest to early two-year-old
races for their sex include
Doubtless, Panic, Inquisitive,
Cherryhurst and Akimbo. As
with the colts, some good fillies
have yet to be seen in action.
* * *
At Caulfield
With promising Bendigo
apprentice L. Harbridge claim-
ing 71b., Quitos carried only
8.1 in winning the main event
at Caulfield last Saturday, the
10-furlongs Chairman’s Handi-
cap. It was a luxury weight
for the well-performed Sans
Tache mare ; actually 31b. less
than she was allotted in the
Caulfield Cup. Quitos hit the
front at the turn, was un-
troubled to hold off a field of
Cup aspirants, and won’t be
the worst chance in this year’s
Caulfield. She has won on all
Melbourne courses, at from
six furlongs to a mile-and-a-
half, and she is the type of
speedy stayer that does best
in the rich Caulfield race.
Westralian mare Dawdie
again ran well to finish third
behind Quitos. There is not
much of Dawdie, and she
found her 8.7 a heavy burden
on the rain-soaked track. She
will do better on firm going.
Paddock bookmaker Clarrie
Stickland’s filly Miss Glory
showed real promise in win-
ning the first heat of the Caul-
field seven-furlongs Waratah
Handicap. Miss Glory is one
of the first of the progeny of
imported Star Spangled
Banner to race. That sire was
a good stayer in England,
where he won, among other
races, the two-miles Rugely
Stakes carrying 9.7. In all her
races Miss Glory has finished
on.
Owner W. R. Kemball must
have derived rare pleasure
from Lady’s win in the second
heat of the Waratah —she is a


FtuHi in ine
fititwe
m
Just when I have been making a brief survey of
the British drive for atomic power, a copy of the
recent annual report of the United Kingdom Atomic
Authority has come into my hand.
It reveals that the Authority is budgeting this
year for an expenditure of more than £ 105-million.
But it is not the magnitude of the current
programme that impresses me, so much as the
thorough organisation that has been behind the
whole British atomic effort from the start.
With consummate Faith in the Future, some
of the best brains in Britain are working, wholly or
in part-time service from their busy lives, to give
their country its place in the field of nuclear power.
The system is highly co-ordinated. It has the
co-operation of the Universities, scientific institutes,
and industry—with which the Authority maintains
a close liaison.
The research work at Harwell, for instance,
centres on basic knowledge and on the possibilities
of applying that knowledge in the economic
development of atomic power. The laboratories of
the Industrial Group carry this on into the design
and construction, of prototype reactors, and to the
provision of services to the. Authority’s plants
and factories.
The result is that impressive programme in
which Britain is forging ahead with the development
of production reactors for its own industry, with
experimental reactors aimed at improvements in
design and methods of operation, and with research
reactors seeking to break still newer ground in all
branches of nuclear science.
The reactors —they are too numerous for listing
here—go by various names such as Dido, Bepo,
Pluto, Zeta. Each has its special purpose. Others
are under construction. All fit into a vital and
active pattern.
In this way, new ideas and processes are
constantly being applied to the systems by which
atomic plants are fuelled and cooled. And such
progress has been made in the past year that it is
possible to see now more clearly the advances most
likely to be made in Britain’s industrial use of the
atom in the next twenty years.
Divorce Notices
TO ANNIE ELIZABETH GARDINER
formerly of Tuart Hill Western Aus-
tralia.—TAKE NOTICE that your hus-
band DENNIS GARDINER has com-
menced proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia for
divorce on the grounds of desertion by
you for a continuous period of three
years or more If you desire to defend
such proceedings or to counterclaim
you must file your defence or counter-
claim in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court, at Perth within forty
CIO") clear days from the date of this
publication IN DEFAULT of your so
doing the action may proceed and the
Court will pronounce judgment and make
orders against you in your absence.
DATED this 4th day of September,
1958. —G. .1. BOYLSON, Registrar.
KOTT WALLACE & GUNNING, of
62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitors
for the Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divoncf:.
TO STANISLAUS SMAHA late of Manly,
—TAKE NOTICE that RENATA MARIA
SMAHA has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2673 of 1938 on the ground of your
bring an habitual drunkard and habitu-
ally leaving your wife wbhout the means
of support and of your being guilty of
cruelty towards your wife during three
years and upwards and is asking for
the exercise of the Court’s discretion
under Section 19 (2) fa) of the Matri-
monial Causes Act 1899 If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Mint Building,
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 17th
day of November 1958 and obtain a
copv of the Petition without charge
from GERALD W. MITCHELL &
GARLAND, of 39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO ALEXANDER WILLIAM BROWNING
formerly of 32 Toornk Road Rivervale
Western Australia. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife JOAN BROWNING has com-
menced proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia for
Divorce on the ground that there has
been entire failure by you during a
period of three years at least immedi-
ately prior to the commencement of
this action to make periodical payments
of maintenance under an order of a
competent Court If you desire to
defend such proceedings you must file
your defence in the Central Office of
the said Supreme Court at Perth within
FORTY CLEAR DAYS from the data
of this publication In default of your
so doing the cause may proceed and
the Court will pronounce judgment and
make orders against you in your absence.
DATED this 18th day of September, One
thousand nine hundred and fifty-eight. —
G. .T. BOYLSON. Registrar.
H. A. READ, 7 Sherwood Court,
Perth. Western Australia, Solicitor for
the Plaintiff.
full sister to Lord, Melbourne’s
current w.-f.-a. star, and their
dam, Broadway, is a sister to
Savoy, who won many good
races for Kemball. A prolific
buyer of New Zealand year-
lings, Kemball shipped Broad-
way to the Dominion to be
mated with Targui. West-
ralian rider Frank Treen had
Lady handily placed through-
out the Waratah. A most
promising filly, she should do
well in the set-weight events
for her age and sex over the
next couple of months.
One of the most pleasing
aspects of the day’s racing at
Caulfield was to see Early Mail
break through for his first win.
When he won a two-year-old
trial 12 months ago he was
rated one of the most promis-
ing youngsters in the State. In
the spring and autumn he was
pitted against the top-class
colts, never ran a bad race,
but could not break through
for a win. This year he has
again been consistent; he had
been placed twice from three
starts prior to Saturday’s win.
It was a pretty good field he
defeated in the mile Belhaven
Handicap; the minor place-
getters were recent winners,
Render and Dusty Light. Early
Mail is by Empyrean from
Luminant, and at 3300gns. was
top-priced youngster at the
Newmarket sales 18 months
ago.
Twice the eight-year-old
Empyrean gelding Sir Pyrean
has broken down so badly that
his racing days seemed to be
over. Despite that, he holds
the Caulfield record for six
furlongs (1.101) and for seven
furlongs (1.23 7/10). He won
the six-furlongs Chesterfield
Handicap last Saturday, and
perhaps his time in that event
Ll2f was even more
remarkable than his record-
breaking efforts. The track
had been soaked by days of
rain, and times in other events
indicate just how heavy the
going was —it took Lady
1.27 9/10 to win over seven
furlongs ; Early Mail 1.40 f in
the mile.
Sir Pyrean is a candidate for
the Invitation Stakes at Caul-
field tomorrow (Thursday—
Show Day in Melbourne) and
is sure to be one of the
favorites. An odd feature of
the race is that no rider from
either New South Wales or
Queensland has been success-
ful since the first running of
the event in 1951. Last year
Westralian Frank Treen won
on Luire. Jack Purtell, shortly
to return from England, won
on Rio Janeiro in 1954 and
on St. Joel in 1956. St. Joel
also won the race in 1953.
The second series of two-
year-old trials for this season,
held at Flemington last week,
indicated that Sir Lorrient may
be the best of the early colts
in Melbourne. The Sir
Edward - Lorrient youngster,
who won a trial at Caulfield
a couple of weeks ago, bolted
in with his heat at Flemington.
He is well-grown for his age,
and could have improved on
his time (50-Vsec.) for the four
furlongs. A couple of Meadow
Mist youngsters won heats,
Dell Air (from Buoyant) and
Gay Summer (from Gay
Lizette). Gay Summer won


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT GEORGE COOK late of 15
George Street, Marrickville, in the State
of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that MADGE COOK has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 946 of 1958 on the
ground that during three years and
upwards you have been an habitual
drunkard and habitually left her with-
out the means of support If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by 24th
November 1958 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. L. B. FEENEY & CO.. Soli-
citors, of 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In DiYobck.
TO BERNARD SMART MORGAN late
of 12 Cook Street Cronulla in the State
of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that MAR.TORIE AJLEEN MORGAN has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1896 of
1958 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by 24th November 1958 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. L. B. FEENEY
& GO., Solicitors, of 16 Barrack Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend
COWARD (or MARTIN 7 ) IVAN (possibly
travelling- showman), son of JOHN
COWARD and LAURA MAY COWARD,
n4e MARTIN. —WILL he or any person
knowing his whereabouts please contact
undersigned re Estate JOHN COWARD,
deceased, on or before 7th June, 1958,
otherwise inheritance mav lapse.—J. 11.
GLYNN, PUBLIC TRUSTEE, ISI St.
George's Terrace, Perth, W. Australia.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
very easily, and is a likely
L winner early in the season.
* * ♦ 9
Trots
A record quinella dividend
was paid on the first division
of the Qualifying Stakes at
Harold Park on Saturday
night: Revescott (66 to 1) beat
Great Wyn (25 to 1) by three-
quarters of a length; div.,
£476 10s. 6d. for 10s. (Previous
best was £463 11s. ~3d.) Big
Smoke, equal - favorite with
Cheryl Ann, had led practically
all the way and looked home
and hosed 100yds. from the
post, but at that stage he broke
badly, finishing third. Revescott
gave driver Norm Warland his
first success at Harold Park.
Starting at 7-to-2 on, cham-
pion pacing mare Sibelia scored
an effortless win in the Harold
Park Free-for-all of Ilf fur.
Coming to the post hard held
by her driver-trainer Jack
Watts, she scored by a. length
from Victory Dale (66 to 1).
Second-favorite at 7 to 1, First
Variety missed second place by
a' half-head. At the “bell”
Maestro’s Melody moved up
alongside Sibelia, with First
Variety also challenging, but
Sibelia moved' away nearing
the turn into the straight for
the last time, for an easy win.
Evergreen Victory Dale got a
late run on the inside to just
oust First Variety from second.
* * *
Other Sports
Collingwood is 1958 V.F.L.
premier, after, beating Mel-
bourne by three goals at the
M.C.G. —before a crowd of
-97,956—12.10-9.10. The Mag-
pies surprised themselves, and
everyone else. Melbourne had
twice defeated ’Wood this year
—in a thrilling grand-final
“preview,” with result reversed,
on Queen’s Birthday (12.12-
10.13) and in the second semi-
final, when the Demons
annihilated ’em 1 It
was a vicious game ; ’Wood
was superior in the air and
faster to the ball. It won in
the third quarter, when it
clapped on 5.3 to 0.2. Coliing-
wood last won in 1953. This
was its 13 th premiership.
Fitting, if it had to be done,
that it should be ’Wood which
stopped Melbourne equalling
’Wood’s record of four succes-
sive premierships (1927-28-
29-30).
* * *
“Wilkie”: -Westralian League
team West Perth recently made
a presentation to captain-coach
Ray (“Homer”) Schofield to
mark his 276th game in League
football. This beat the W.A.
record of 274 games, held by
former Claremont goalkeeper
Ken Caporn. Homer has
slowed down, but has been
playing a useful game. -West
sought a Latin motto this year,
and among those suggested
were: Animo et fide “with
courage and confidence”;
Fortunas favet fortibus —-
“fortune favors the bold”;
E pluribus unum —“one com-
posed of many” ; and Homer
bringus homo de bacon.
* * *
“Bicky”: Since the first
Brownlow Medal in 1924, only
four clubs have pulled-off the
Brownlow-premiership double
in the one year Melbourne
(Ivor Warne-Smith) 1926,
Collingwopd (Albert Collier)
1929, Carlton (Bert Deacon)
1947 and Geelong (Bernie
Smith) 1951.
* * *
In the third Rugby Union
Test at Auckland, N.Z. de-
feated Australia 17-8, after
leading 6-0 at half-time, and
thus retained the Bledisloe
Cup. N.Z. had won the first
Test and Australia the second.
Though each side scored only
one try, N.Z. was the better,
particularly in the forwards ;
N.Z. fullback Clarke kicked
four penalties and converted
the try. On its last three tours
of N.Z., Australia won both
Tests in 1949, in 1952 each
Dominion won a Test, and in
1955 N.Z. won the first two
and Australia the third.
N
• a • m m
Sydney’s Rugby Union final
was won by Gordon, which
eliminated St. <leorge, last
year's premier, 16-3, after lead-
ing 8-0 at half-time. Big 14st.
'winger John Law scored two
tries, each after a long run ;
but every member of the team
played his part. Gordon now
meets Manly in the grand-
final.
* * m
On Sunday, in the wet,
Canterbury defeated Auburn
2- in the Sydney Federation
Soccer grand-final. (The same
two teams had met in the
grand-final last year, when
Auburn put on three goals in
the last Jsmin. to win 4-3). Last
Wednesday night, in an excit-
ing game, Canterbury had
beaten Prague 3-2 to win the
Federation Cup. As the Berries
had at the start of the season
won the Kennard Cup, they
have made a clean sweep of
the Federation’s 1958 competi-
tions. The Sydney Association
premiership final, played on
Saturday, was won by Leich-
hardt, which beat Baigownie
3-
* m -
Cricket in Sydney more-or-
less got going on Saturday with
the annual charity game at
Mosman. Benaud’s team,
which made 8-201 (Richie him-
self top-scoring with 63), beat
Neil Harvey’s XI (197). Bright
and breezy cricket. Alan
Davidson clouted four of five
sixes. Grade-matches start on
Saturday.
* * *
“C.A.A.”: During the 1932-33
“bodyline” Test season 1 saw
Macartney in what must have
been one of his last games. He
appeared .with a team of ex-
internationals, which included
former colleagues in “Nip”
Pellew, Arthur Mailey and
Arthur Richardson, against an
S.A. women's team on Unley
Oval, Adelaide. The “Governor-
General” showed he had lost
little of his skill by hitting-up
a sparkling 50 and then
bamboozling the girls with his
tantalising left-arm deliveries.
* * *
The S:A. Queen’s Prize shoot
was won by S.A. rifleman Les
Lock —third time he has won
it in the past six years.
Eighteen-year-old Tasmanian
Geoff Ayling, with 21 shots,
21 bullseyes, became the first
competitor since the first S.A.
Prize shoot in 1900 to score
full points in the first stage.
# * *
Last week’s boxing: In
Sydney on Monday night,
American negro Willie
Vaughn easily outpointed dis-
appointing Australian middle-
weight champ. Clive Stewart.
The pair had earlier met on
Aug. 25, when Vaughn had
also won, but in a much harder
fight. In a double-bill in Mel-
bourne on Friday night,
featherweight Steve Nitties,
with an 81b. advantage in
weight, stopped former national
bantamweight champion Young
Regan in the sixth round, while
young Victorian lightweight
Alf O’Sullivan k.o.’d Sydney-
sider Don McDonnell in the
third round. At Salt Lake
City former world middle-
weight champ. Gene Fullmer
outpointed another contender
for Robinson’s crown, “Spider”
Webb.


PAINT BARGAINS
3 Gallon Drums at 59/6 per
Drum. Olive Green Gloss Paint
(Lead & Oil Base). Manufac-
tured by 1.C.1. of England.
F.O.R. MELBOURNE
SEGALS,
48 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Royal Jelly
DIRECT FROM THE BEES
30 Capsules 50 ni.g’.m. £5 5 0
30 Capsules 30 ni.g.m. £3 15 0
Face Cream .. £1 17 (1
Post Free. Free Leaflet.
REX PEACOCK
Apiarist,
BOX 1818, RERAN G, VIC.
N.Z. INQUIRIES WELCOME
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
"THEY All LIKE MAC."
'T'he sudden rise in popularity
of Britain’s Conservative
Government has naturally
turned thoughts to the possi-
bility of an election 18 months
ahead of the due date, the
argument being that the party
“has never had it so good” as
at the moment, and is unlikely
to do any better dating the
remainder of its term.
“Manchester Guardian,”
commenting on Gallup Poll
findings published in London
“News Chronicle,” notes that
the figures show that “for the
first time in almost two years,
more people would be likely
to vote Conservative than
Labor. The lead is slender —
only a half of 1 per cent.:
but, allowing for the Labor
votes ‘wasted’ in piling-up
huge majorities in the safe seats,
that would leave the Govern-
ment with a probable majority
of 25 to 30 seats. The Con-
servatives, from looking like
a beaten party "earlier this year,
are beginning to feel as if they
were riding high.
“To judge by the answers
to the pollsters’ other ques-
tions, this astonishing recovery
is due partly to less dissatisfac-
tion with the Government’s
policies, but even more to the
rising popularity of the Prime
Minister. Mr. Macmillan has
‘never had it so good.’ It
would be pardonable if he now
concluded that he is never
likely to have it so good again
—or at least during any one
of those periods during the
next 18 months into which a
general election could con-
veniently fall. For even its
keenest admirers would hardly
claim that the Government’s
present popularity rests on any
very solid achievements.”
After balancing-up the
Government’s achievements at
home and overseas —and find-
ing that it comes out rather
better on the local record —
the same paper adds that
“There remains, of course, one
outstanding factor to be taken
into account; the truly
astonishing inability of Labor
to make any inroads on the
Government’s support”:
“Even when the Conserva-
tives’ stock was at its lowest,
Labor showed scarcely any
increase in its poll at by-
elections. Now the signs are
that it stands even lower than
it did in 1955. Policy state-
ments have helped not at all.
—London “Daily Mail"
SITTING BIRDS.
It is unfair to put all the blame
on Mr. Gaitskell, though he
has not succeeded in making
a deep impression on the
public’s mind. The real
trouble seems to be that Labor
has failed utterly to present
itself as a party of progress and
prosperity ; instead it is con-
cerned too much with out-
moded doctrines, and the
public is left bored.”
London “Daily Telegraph,”
conceding the Conservatives’
rise to popularity, still doubts
the wisdom of an early election.
“What can the Prime Minister
set down as a stake?” it asks:
“No doubt, as recent opinion-
polls have told us, the political
climate is more favorable to the
Government now than at any
time since Mr. Macmillan suc-
ceeded Sir Anthony Eden. But
climate is not enough. What
has the Government already
achieved, and what has it still to
do? Intervention in Jordan, in
concert with the United States'
intervention in the Lebanon,
may have halted, but has not
removed, the threat to the
Middle East. The Prime
Minister’s imaginative visits
to Athens, Ankara and Cyprus
cannot be said to have trans-
formed that grim scene. The
summit is again below the
horizon.
“In the international scene,
therefore, the golden apple is
perhaps closer, but it has »not
yet been grasped. At home,
the Government has yet to
make it certain and plain that
inflation is over. Its aim has
been, with public approval, the
establishment of honest money
and confident enterprise. To
attain that aim, it has had to
adopt a harsh monetary policy
and hold the ring in a contest
which its opponents have falsely
labelled a challenge to the trade-
unions. Again, the golden apple
is not yet harvested. We must
not forget that in October Mr.
Macmillan’s Administration
will have to face the final test of
its policy on rents. Would it
be either wise or honest to ask
the electorate to endorse a firm
policy which has not clearly
proved itself sound to ordinary
people?
“It is pointed out by those
most closely in touch with
debates in Parliament that,
during the past 18 months, the
major challenges launched by
the Opposition have collapsed
feebly. That is true. But
defeats of an Opposition never
register, throughout the
country, any impact compar-
able to a minor setback to a
Government’s majority. None
of this argument in any way
detracts from the spectacular
recovery of confidence in Con-
servatism which we have been
witnessing lately.
“To a great extent, that con-
fidence has spread downwards
from the top. It is Mr. Mac-
millan’s own creation, a reflec-
tion of serene confidence in the
ability of his team to govern.
But there are two strong, indeed
decisive, arguments against the
temptation to test it at the poll
before next year. One is that
the public attitude—more of
respect than liking is of
recent origin and might change;
for there is no doubt that an
election would be unpopular.
The other is that Mr. Mac-
millan’s Ministry has not yet
finished the job it undertook
only 20 months ago.”
Most papers and commen-
tators are agreed that Mr. Mac-
millan’s personal rise to public
favor has been largely respon-
sible for the increased popu-
larity of the party he leads.
T. F. Thompson, writing in
London “Daily Mail,” nomi-
nates three reasons for the
Prime Minister’s “amazing
emergence into the blaze of
public favor”:
“First, Harold Macmillan’s
personal qualities ; second, the
tremendous stroke of luck by
which it was discovered he was
a television performer of star
quality ; finally, the fact that
he has filled an urgent need
of the nation —the requirement
of a ‘father figure’ who can
be trusted to shoulder the
awful burdens of the day.
“The personal qualities
which have carried Mr.
Macmillan steadily higher in
politics have long been known
in Westminster. They are still
too little known to the world
at large. In fact, they are
qualities rarely combined in
one man. He has erudition,


GENERAL MOTORS
Acceptance Corporation, Australia
(Incorporated in U.S.A. Limited Liability)
REGISTERED UNSECURED NOTES
PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEED BY
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION, NEfF YORK
2 YEARS
PER ANNUM
5i%
PER ANNUM
YEAR
4 3 A% per annum
4!4% per annum
3 3 A% per annum
3!4% per annum
270 to 360 days
180 to 269 days
90 to 179 days
30 to 89 days
Subject to a minimum of £5OO, investments may be in multiples of £lOO and you may
nominate the exact day on which you want your Notes to mature and your money rgpaid.
We report that, in our opinion, as at December 31, 1957
Total paid up capital and earned surplus of General Motors Acceptance Corporation,
Australia was 2,564,pi 1 dollars and total tangible assets were 38,241,317 dollars.
Furthermore, in our opinion, as at December 31, 1957 total Notes, Loans and
Debentures payable by General Motors Acceptance Corporation, New York
amounted to 3,739,369,086 dollars. Its other liabilities amounted to 384,673,533
dollars, and its total tangible assets were 4,397,874,582 dollars.
Melbourne , August 19, 1958 . Signed Haskins & Sells, Auditors.
HOW TO APPLY
For your copy of the Prospectus and Application Form contact:
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES,
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION, AUSTRALIA
a vast general knowledge, long
experience, and a superb sense
of history which enables him
to put succeeding crises into
perspective. He has a nerve
which is utterly steady.
“He has a crackling, often
cruel, wit and an accompany-,
ing Parliamentary manner in
the Churchill and Bevan class,
He has a genuine humility
which comes out time and time
again in his dealings with* his
Downing Street staff. And he
has a personal sincerity which
is at last being sensed by the
people.
“But without the discovery
that he is a television ‘natural,’
these facets of his character
would have remained hidden.
It is a citizen of the U.S. who
deserves the credit for pro-
jecting Harold Macmillan. I
refer to Ed Murrow, the
famous television interviewer.
“Many Tories believe it was
the luckiest thing in years that
brought Macmillan and
Murrow together in a half-
hour ‘Person to Person’ inter-
view which was beamed, to
Britain as well as the U.S.
Macmillan had made television
appearances before and had
come across as a fuddy-duddy.
But Murrow shot an hour-long
‘raw’ unscripted interview. By
skilful cutting this was reduced
to a polished and exciting inter-
view half that length.
“The Tory party swiftly
realised what a wonderful
‘find’ they had. A British tele-
vision interview followed. The
interviewer on this occasion
did not rise to his big chance
—but, nevertheless, the Prime
Minister, having learnt much
from Murrow, again came
across in a big way.
“With those two successful
intimate appearances in the
family circle of millions of-
ordinary Britons, Harold Mac-
millan finally broke through to
the people.”
Scientists and
Security
In his presidential address to
the Australian and New
Zealand Association for the
Advancement of Science, Pro-
fessor M. L. Oliphant com-
plained that the insistence on
complete honesty and open-
ness which had guided the
search for natural knowledge
was now challenged, primarily
by Government establish-
ments ; few men of high calibre
having an interest in funda-
mental science would be con-
tent to remain in the profes-
sional isolation imposed in the
name of security.
Commenting on the profes-
sor’s remarks, “Yorkshire Post”
considers “there is no doubt
that he was declaring the
thoughts of many scientists in
various countries who are
becoming more and more wor-
ried by the secrecy in which
they have to work”:
“It is clamped on them for
one or other of two reasons,
ot for both —defence and


BALD PATCHES
Hair grown secret formula
Sacred Eastern Oils. Itareiy
fails. Treats Alopecia. Leading
broadcaster’s bair grown after
years of Baldness. Effective
treatment for dandruff (Basic
cause of nearly all hair sick-
ness). and stops falling hair.
My herbal treatment restores
grey hair to original colour.
Not a dye—not injurious, not
obvidus. Names given of lead-
ing citizens (with their per-
mission) who gratefully testify.
My treatment used in privacy
of your home.
For free advice write—
MRS. A. EASTON,
Box 5204, G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE
national prestige. A large num-
ber of them are engaged in
research that is turned to the
production of new weapons,
offensive or defensive. Others
are doing research designed for
peaceful uses, but have to
observe the same secrecy as
their colleagues in defence, so
that when the time is judged by
some Minister to be ripe their
achievement may be trumpeted
abroad as a triumph for their
country in the international
race for honors.
“In all scientists secrecy goes
against the grain. They have
inherited a long tradition of
hospitable openness in the pur-
suit of knowledge by which
details of discoveries have been
published to help towards fur-
ther discoveries. It is un-
pleasant for them not to share
what they find, and to see part
of it publifcised in an aura of
national boastfulness is very
distasteful.
“Among themselves they
do not hide their feelings ; if
other people do not hear much
about these feelings it is
because the scientist is more
reserved by nature and train-
ing than a performer in public,
say, a cricketer.
“Here is a dilemma for
Western Governments. If most
of the best scientists were to
leave or refuse to take-up
secret work the defences of the
free world would grow weaker
while those of the Communist
countries, where the scientist
has no freedom of choice of
work, grew stronger. But
secrecy in research for defence
there must be, and in the
Soviet Union there certainly
will continue to be. How then
is the need of the Western
scientist for free communion
with fellow-scientists to be
satisfied?
“Professor Oliphant must
have contemplated that
dilemma, but he does not sug-
gest a way of escape from it.
Of course it is tragic that
science is harnessed to inter-
national politics. That is how
it is, however, and as long as
it is so, to find a way out of
the dilemma will tax the
ingenuity of a dozen Solomons.
All the same, it is well for
everyone to ,know that the
dilemma becomes more
pressing.
“Professor Oliphant’s plea
for the integrity of science also
calls for the utmost considera-
tion. He says that it has been
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune”
MAO’S TURN TO WIN A CIGAR?
perverted by half-truths and
downright lies. He attacks the
mental dishonesty of some
scientists and other men and
women carried away by their
emotions to exaggerate the
effects of radiation. His
appraisal of their campaigning
should be sobering and salu-
tary. He complains that the
excellent work done at Harwell
to achieve controlled thermo-
nuclear reactions was exploited
in organised jubilation in order
to impress other nations.
“While the claims of the
Harwell team were tentative
and in proper accord with the
tradition of science, he says,
highly exaggerated statements
by Government spokesmen
created an atmosphere in
which the subsequent discovery
that the neutrons observed were
not thermonuclear in origin
received little notice. True
enough, and though no doubt
he knows in his own heart that
these days science cannot be
set inviolable on Olympus, he
is right to demand that it
should be treated with scrupu-
lous respect by official spokes-
men, newspapers, and, not
least, scientists. If his charges
should have that desirable
outcome they will have been
a power for good. .They also
show how science brings new
problems in place of those it
solves, and problems perhaps
more evasive of solution.”
Formosa—Two Views
Coming out strongly in
editorial support of whole-
hearted British backing for
American policy on Formosa
and the “offshore islands,”
London “Daily Telegraph”
points out that “ever since the
Cold War began it has been
axiomatic that'the West would
go to war in defence of Berlin”:
“This is not because the
former German capital is of
any military, strategic or eco-
nomic value to the West. Its
importance is strictly moral and
symbolic. The loss of Berlin
would be a shattering blow to
the West’s prestige. The same
considerations apply to China's
off-shore islandsT Peking would
like to possess them not
because she needs them in any
concrete sense, but simply
because they have become a
test of American and Chinese
prestige in Asia. By the same
foken, of course, Washington
is reluctant to hand them over.
“This is the basic factor
which should determine
Britain's reaction to the news
of China's dramatic renewal of
large-scale shelling of Matsu
and Quemoy. To argue that
Britain has no real interest in
these islands, and that it is
absurd to risk war on their
behafif, misses the basic point,
just as similar arguments would
miss the basic point of the
West’s stand on Berlin. Belief
in United' States strength, and
her determination to use it, is
the only deterrent in Asia to
Chinese expansion and domina-
tion.
“Seen in this light Mr. Dulles's
forthright warning that America
would not tolerate an- invasion
of the off-shore islands appears
both realistic and right. Many
would ask: What is the point
of supporting a rump on
Formosa which has no chance
of ever regaining control of
the Chinese mainland? The
answer is quite simple: Any
weakening of America’s support
for Formosa would be taken —
and rightly so—as an indication
of a weakening of her will to
contain Communist China.”
Coming out just as strongly
from the opposite corner,
Marshal of the Royal Air Force
Sir John Slessor writes in a
letter to the same paper that
“I have come to feel that
some admitted shortcomings
and stupidities on our
[Britain's] part no longer justify
a continued acceptance of that
degree of pre-eminence in world
leadership that America’s allies
have been willing in recent
years to concede.
“We may as well admit that
we oWe our difficulties in the
Middle East since the war in
no . small measure to an
infantile obsession on the part
of Americans with their tribal
myth about the incorrigible
wickedness of British ‘coloni-
alism.’ Now we see Western
influence in Asia further be-
devilled by a reaffirmation of
the idiotic Dulles policy vis-a-
vis Communist China.
“I do not for a moment
delude myself that American
willingness to face the facts of
life in China would lead
immediately to a detente in the
Far East or to a split between
Peking and Moscow. But-1
cannot admit that there is any
parallel between Berlin and
Quemoy—the former is much
more thaff a question of
prestige. And in my view we
should no longer allow anyone
to imagine that we think U.S.


QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the tVorld.
policy towards Peking makes
any sense whatever.
‘"There is a really urgent
strategic issue in this. The
Western Powers should make it
clear; — as ’ thank goodness, we
did in July—that in the very
last resort we are prepared to
use force to protect our vital
interests rather than be nibbled
to death by a creeping process
of what is now being called
indirect aggression—Mr. Eisen-
hower’s ‘ballistic blackmail.’
But the operative term is ‘vital
interests.’ And that means that
the issue at stake is, sooner or
later, directly or indirectly, a
matter of life or death to us
as free nations.
“A cardinal point in our
policy should be to avoid by
political action the possibility
of being committed to use force
in an issue which is not vital
but which still involves any
chance, however remote, of our
being faced, if things go wrong
for us, with the alternatives of
local failure or general war.
“I am not for a moment
advocating handing-over
Formosa to the Communists
when I go so far as to suggest
that Br tain and other closely
interested countries -of the
Commonwealth should make it
clear to the U.S. Government
that if their continued refusal
to seek a political solution of
the Formosa problem within
the framework of the United
Nations lets them in for mili-
tary operations against Com-
munist China we shall give
them no support, and if the
question of the recognition of
Peking comes before the
General Assembly we shall not
merely abstain but vote against
them.
“We must always strive for
full co-operation a'nd com-
munity of purpose between the
English-speaking nations. But
that is not a one-way street and
does not mean we should
always tag along behind Mr.
Dulles.
“Field-Marshal Smuts said
to me not long before his
death: ‘Never forget that if
England is true to herself she
can have an influence on
American policy out of all pro-
portion to her material or
physical strength.’
“That is true. But it in-
volves setting our own house
in order : ceasing to pretend
that we cannot afford to be
strong while enjoying a higher
standard of living than almost
anywhere in the world, includ-
ing large sections of the United
States: ceasing to mortgage
our influence in Nato by reduc-
ing our forces in Germany for
the sake of catching votes by
abolishing National Service;
—London “Daily Minor”
“HOW D’YOU SPELL ‘CIVILISATION ! TOSH?”
restoring our former position in
the strategic councils of - the
Alliance by revitalising our own
system for the higher direction
of military policy in Whitehall.”
Wool and Synthetics
ing behind the announcement
that Australia’s Commonwealth
Scientific and Industrial
Research Organisation has
devised a method of making
pure - wool garments hold
creases and pleats.
“The second proposition of
Dr. Caress —that there is not
enough wool iri the world to
cater for its growing popula-
tion —is true in the long term.
There are fluctuations from
season to season (and in the
current wool year it looks as
it world supplies will be more,
not less, than the demand), but
the general tendency as popu-
lations expand and the stan-
dard of living rises is for an
increase in the demand for
more and better clothing which
cannot be met without the aid
of the synthetics. In the last
30 years there has been a tre-
mendous expansion in the out-
put of man-made fibres, which
now enjoy a much bigger share
of the textile ‘cake’ than wool
does ; but in the same period
the production of wool has also
increased substantially.
“Of course, the research
worker does not pause to weigh
such pros and cons. His goal
always lies on the horizon,
which beckons him onward.
Du Fonts of America have just
announced an improved type
of Dacron which, they think,
will widen its appeal in the
worsted-type fabric market.. In
this country [Britain] the 1.C.1.
scientists are continually striv
ing to perfect Terylene, and it
is not impossible that one day
a new and better fibre will be
invented. In the meantime,
Lately in Australia, Dr. A.
Caress, chairman of the fibres
division of 1.C.1.,- Ltd., made
three points “to allay fears that
man-made fibres were out to
undermine the welfare of
wool”:
Synthetic - fibre producers
were doing woolgrowers a
good turn by devising fabrics
which required a wool-content.
World-production of wool
was falling behind demand, and
man-made fibres were needed
“to help out.”
The synthetics were taking
a very small part of the market
compared with wool’s share.
Commenting on Dr. Caress’s
points, Bradford “Wool
Record” considers that “the
proposition that the synthetics
do wool ‘a good turn’ by
imparting special properties,
such as durable pleats or
increased strength, is easily
arguable. If, for instance,
women buy more skirts than
usual because of the attraction
of durably pleated Terylene
and wool garments, both of the
fibres may benefit. But if (as
appears more likely when the
novelty has worn off) there is
no increase in total sales of
skirts, obviously wool has lost
part of a traditional market.
That, of course, is the reason-
those who live by the natural
fibres should do what they can
to improve their properties and
make their price more competi-
tive. In this enterprise as much
can be achieved by the tech-
nologist and salesman as by
the scientist.”
Various Voices
President Eisenhower: “The
dream of world domination by
one Power, or of world con-
formity, is an impossible
dream. The nature of today’s
weapons, the nature of modern
communications and the
widening circle of new nations
make it plain that we must, in
the end, be a world community
of open societies. And the con-
cept of the open society is the
ultimate key to a system of
arms-controi we can all trust.”
Mr. Didles: “We face a
future of immense and excit-
ing challenge. The new power
of the atom will come to trans-
form the mechanics of human
life. The essential thing is not
to prevent Communism from
changing the status quo but
how we ourselves shall change
the status quo so as to make
the future more exciting and
more productive of human
welfare.”
Sir Alexander Fleck (presi-
dent of the British Associa-
tion): “Over 90 per cent, of
the world’s population live in
countries less prosperous than
our own [Great Britain], most
of them in conditions that we
should not dream of tolerating.
The world does not owe us a
living ; we can only enjoy the
standards which our business
enterprise and scientific know-
ledge enable us to earn through
our exports.”


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
Social event of Air Force Week was
the Battle of Britain Ball, which drew r
600 to St. Kilda Palais. The Governor
and Lady Brooks attended, and also in
the official party were the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. F, W,
Thomas).
Arrangements were by the Royal
Australian Air Force Women’s Associa-
tion, and proceeds will go to the Educa-
tion Fund for the children of deceased
Air Force personnel. The Federal presi-
dent, Mrs. E. C. Wackett, and her
husband, Air-Vice-Marshal Wackett,
assisted by Lady Scherger and Air-Vice-
Marshal A. L. Walters, received the
official guests.
Lady Brooks chose a picture-gown of
ice-blue satin, the fitted bodice featuring
a wide neckline and broad shoulder-
straps, the skirt draped slightly to the
back to hang in full, graceful folds.
Beige satin brocade was the choice of
the Lady Mayoress ; to a full skirt was
allied a strapless bodice cut on Princess-
lines, and she added a matching stole.
Lady Scherger’s gown, which combined
two shades of grey organza, had a full
skirt and a swathed bodice, with folds
extending over the shoulders. Mrs.
Wackett’s deep-sapphire-blue satins had
a swathed neckline. Mrs. A. L. Walters
chose a lovely gown of white tulle and
guipure-lace, with a white tulle stole
added.
Special guests-of-honor at the ball were
Air-Marshal Sir John McCauley and
Lady McCauley. Other guests were
Vice-Admiral Sir Roy Dowling and Lady
Dowling, Rear-Admiral and Mrs. R. S.
Wellby, and Lieut.-General and Mrs.
A. R. Garrett.
☆ ☆ ☆
Some charming short frocks were seen
at the opening performance of “Fidelio,”
the second of the Elizabethan Opera
Company’s offerings. Lady Tait, who
was with Sim Frank, wore a dyed-ermine
coat over her short black-lace frock.
Mrs. Garnet Carroll’s beige laces were
heavily embroidered with opalescent
rhinestones ; with it went a theatre-coat
of azure-blue faille. Mrs. Mark
Clements’s short frock of mauve-and-
white brocade was worn with a mink
stole. Contralto Constance Shacklock
chose a slim frock of black velvet high-
lighted with a wide aqua-blue sash. Also
in the audience were Mrs. John Casson
and her daughter Penny, who were
accompanied by Mrs. E. Gregory, an
English visitor.
& ☆ ☆
The day before the opening of the
Royal Show the president of the Agri-
cultural Society, Judge Mitchell, and
Mrs. Mitchell entertained 150 guests at
a buffet-luncheon in the society’s rooms
at the Showgrounds. Large white urns
carried gladioli, daffodils and carnations.
Mrs. Mitchell chose a small hat of black
felt to go with her dark-grey suit, which
had Persian-lamb trimming on the collar.
Her daughter Susan wore a heather-blue
tweed suit and a draped beret in
sapphire-blue velvet. Wife of one of the
vice-presidents of the R.A.S., Mrs.
George Wilson chose a suit of black and
brown wool woven with a gold thread,
and a yellow beret.
Others at the luncheon were Dr. and
Mrs. Frank Stephens, Mr. and Mrs. John
Bott, Sir Rupert and Lady Clarke, R.A.S.
secretary Colin Woodfull 'and Mrs.
Woodfull, Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Doyle,
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Lyall, Sir William
Bridgeford, the judges of dressage—
Lieut.-Colonel F. Weldon (England), Mrs.
Charles Luckock (Mortlake) and Mrs.
Frank Crane (N.S.W.)—and Mrs. C. J.
Pacey, from England, who will judge the
best dog of the Show.
Mrs. Graham Hall, wife of the U.S.
Consul-General, is not only the patroness
of the American Women’s Auxiliary to
the Royal Children’s Hospital but is a
very active member of it. Having lived
for some time in India, Mrs. Hall has
brought with her a number of paintings
and small pieces of sculpture, the work
of Indian artists, and these adorn the
Consular residence in South Yarra. A
gracious hostess, Mrs. Hall is a woman
of charm and wide interests.
When Helen Beatrice Manifold was
married at St. Paul’s, Gisborne, to
Timothy Lempriere Todhunter she wore
a Limerick-lace veil which had belonged
to her great-great-great-great-grand-
mother and was lent to the bride by her
great-aunt, Mrs. R. A. D. Hood. Held
.with a small coronet of silver and pearls,
it was worn with a cream-taffeta bridal-
dress which had a crinoline skirt and
long, tight-fitting sleeves. The bouquet
was of freesias. The bride is the elder
daughter of Mrs. Peter Manifold, of
Redlands, Macedon, and of the late Mr.
Peter Manifold. The bridegroom is the
eldest son of Captain and Mrs. Robin
Todhunter, of Surrey, England. The
bride’s sister Christina, Mrs. Milan
Kantor, Rowena Hayne and Jacqueline
Lempriere attended the bride wearing
lichen-green velvet ballerina frocks with
long sleeves and matching satin sashes.
Bands of green satin were on their hair,
and they carried posies of spring-blossom.
Robin Ritchie was best man. After the
ceremony there was a luncheon-party at
Redlands.
iSr ☆ ☆
Her Majesty’s Theatre was packed for
the opening night of the Elizabethan
Trust’s production of “The. Barber of
Seville.” Noted there Sir Frank and Lady
Tait, Sir John and Lady Latham, the
Aubrey Gibsons, singer Constance Shack-
lock (who wore one of the few formal
gowns seen, of chalk-white crepe), Sir
Frank and Lady Selleck (she in black
frock and cape of grey Arctic-fox fur),
Sir Frank and Lady Richardson, Mr.'
and Mrs. F. E. Lampe, Miss Myra
Roper, Dr. and Mrs. Bruce Hallows and
their daughter Lucille, and Dr. Gladys
Haljows.
* * Cr
To enable city friends to meet Margaret
Coffey, a few days before her marriage
to their son Geoffrey, Mr. and Mrs. J. P.
McMdhon gave a party at their Caulfield
home. In receiving their guests, host and
hostess were assisted by their son-in-law
and daughter, Mr. and Mrs. B. Hoppert.
The guest-of-honor chose a pink floral
silk-shantung frock, the slim skirt high-
lighted with floating side-panels. Among
the guests were Cr. John Williams and
Mrs. Williams, Mr. and Mrs. John
Schaffer, Dr. and Mrs. Jim Best, Mrs. T.
Wallace Mitchell and her son and
daughter-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm
Wallace Mitchell, and her son Hugh,
Mr. and Mrs. Joe Burke and Mrs. Bea
Taplin.
CANBERRA
“The Eighth Sea” was the title of one
of the three Canadian films shown to their
guests at Acton Theatrette by Mr. and
Mrs. James G. Harris, of the Canadian
High Commissioner’s office. In color, it
told the fascinating story of the construc-
tion of the sea-way which will connect
the St. Lawrence River with the Great
Lakes and enable ocean steamers to sail
right to the heart of the great inland
wheat and industrial centres of the North
American continent. Far more compli-
cated a project than any similar under-
taking elsewhere and involving the build-
ing of huge locks and dams, the by-
passing of rapids and the elimination of
islands and other obstructions, it is a
tribute to all-out co-operation between
the Canadian and United States Govern-
ments and will bring great benefits to


both countries. Other films included a
pictorial study of the city of Montreal
and a nostalgic recollection of the Yukon
gold-rush.
After the screening, guests went on to
the Deakin home of the host and hostess,
where they were entertained at a late-
evening party. Among those noted were
the registrar of the Australian National
University, Mr. R. A. Hohnen, and his
wife ; Dr. C. H. J. van Beukering, of the
Royal Netherlands Embassy, and Mme.
van Beukering ; and Mr. Paul Cotton, of
the N.Z. High Commissioner’s office, with
Mrs. Cotton.
SYDNEY
Some very beautiful dresses were worn
at the Elizabethan Ball, which was
attended by about 600 people at the
Trocadero during the week. The presi-
dent of the committee, Mrs. Ken Hill —
who with her husband, Dr. K. H. Hill,
received the guests —wore a striking dress
of white faille, shorter in the front than
in the back, and caught at the hem with
large white roses. Ballerina Rowena
Jackson’s English-model frock was a
trapeze-line in white nylon-net over a
pale-pink sheath of satin embroidered
with crystal. Another pretty dress, worn
by actress Mary Preston (soon to be seen
in “Lola Montez”), was of waltz-length
in flame-colored shirred chiffon. The
guests-of-honor were Dame Ninette de
Valois, Sir John Northcott and Mr. and
Mrs. Russell Nash.
☆ ☆ ☆
A very happy Bth Reunion party of the
A.A.M.W.S. was held at the Pickwick
during the week, when pride of place
in the decorations was given to the new
banner in the A.A.M.W.S. colors of
chocolate and maroon, commemorating
their work from 1942 to 1950 in such
places as Ceylon, the Middle East,
Borneo, New Guinea and Japan. The
banner will be dedicated on October 12
and will be carried in all future Anzac
Day marches. Mrs. Joyce Snelling
received the 200 guests, and Sir John
Northcott and his daughter, Mrs. Donald
Coburn (formerly a member of the
A.A.M.W.S), were guests-of-honor. The
special cake, made by Corporal Cornell
°f the Catering Corps, was iced and
decorated with Red Cross and Rising Sun
emblems by Miss Eva Bently.
V V
Encountering a woman’s magazine
dated 1953 (at the dentist’s, of course),
°ne read: “The talk of New York at
Present is the new wonder, Cinerama,”
and it was nice to feel that Sydney, even
though five years later, has at last caught
J)P with the latest thing in cinematic art.
the gala premiere during the week at
he Plaza Theatre was attended by many
adies and gentlemen who drove up in
uggies, bustles and black moustaches,
okens of their adherence to the Naughty
ne t' es Committee, which, under the
guidance of Mrs. W. J. Smith, organised
the premiere in aid of the Royal N.S.W.
Institution for Deaf and Blind Children.
Judith Oldfield, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Bert Oldfield of Killara, has just
returned from a trip abroad, where she
spent over two years travelling and study-
ing languages in Italy. Photo by Dayne.
Friday was a busy day for Sir Basil
Embry, guest-of-honor for Air Force
Week, and Lady Embry. Early in the
afternoon Sir Basil paid a formal visit to
the Lord Mayor, and at the cocktail-
hour he and Lady Embry attended a
reception in their honor at the Royal
Commonwealth Society. At this party
Mr. Ivan Black, M.L.A., referring to Sir
Basil’s distinguished career, his many
decorations and the dazzling amount of
braid on his sleeve, quoted the remark
overheard in the mess-room: “Cor’
lumme, if you cut off his arm at the
elbow, he’d still be a flight-lieutenant!”
Later in the evening Sir Basil and Lady
Embry attended a party arranged by the
Air Force Officers’ Club at the Pickwick
Club. Group-Captain P. M. Rickard
(president) and Mrs. Rickard received
the guests, who included Minister for
Air F. M. Osborne and Air-Vice-Marshal
and Mrs. Douglas Candy.
* ☆
Distinguished visitor of the week was
Signor Salvatore Ferragamo, who has
come to these parts to look over our
feet. Signor Ferragamo is, as quiz-experts
know, the doyen of shoe-designers, and
though few of us can buy his models
(14gns. upwards), his influence touches us
all in the shape of the shoes we wear.
It was interesting to hear from this
expert that the actual lasts which were
used in 1927 are again being used today,
though the extreme needle-point toe will
probably not be overpopular, because,
says Signor Ferragamo, it is anatomically
incorrect. Another thing he says is that
it is better to go barefooted than to wear
badly fitted shoes.
Having hied-off to North Sydney in
the wind and the rain on Sunday night
to see the Ensemble Theatre's production
of “The Man” it was gratifying to find
that this thrilling piece was well worth
the effort. The play, by American writer
Mel Dinelli, is about a paranoic who
imprisons a middle-aged housewife in
her own home and nearly scares her
out of her wits. As the Ensemble is
a theatre-in-the-round house and the
audience is practically sitting on the stage,
the impact of this terror-drama :s
(literally) terrific. It was well-nigh im-
possible not to put oneself in the place
of the unfortunate woman and to refrain
from shouting advice to her. The
Ensemble Theatre is a new venture, plays
on Saturday and Sunday nights, and is
proving a great success.
☆ ☆ ☆
A ballet-scene in a garden setting is
the pretty motif for the decorations at
the Lady Mayoress’s Ball, to be held
in the Town Hall next Friday. The ball-
committee has made thousands of
blossoms to supplement the masses of
fresh flowers to be used, and the whole
Town Hall will be transformed to a
picture of spring. Gallery-tickets are
available to the public for 3s. each to
view the decorations and the presentation
of 13 debutantes to the Governor, Sir
Eric Woodward, and Lady Woodward.
V V V
Friday, September 26, is a date to
remember by North-Shore-liners and
others privileged to visit that district in
the spring. A morning-tea on that day
has been arranged by Mrs. Philip Rudder
at her St. Ives home in aid of the Family
Welfare Bureau, and the speaker will be
Mr. G. L. Auchinachie, the authority on
antiques.
On the same day an American Tea
will be given in aid of the Royal N.S.W.
Institution for Deaf and Blind Children
at the home of Mrs. E. L. Calloway, of
Turramurra, when Mrs. I. Tsuge and
Mrs. T. Kurahachi, wives of the Japanese
Consuls, will give a talk on Japanese
floral art. The American Tea is being
arranged by Mrs. H. M. Buckland, presi-
dent of the Killara Auxiliary, assisted by
members of the auxiliary.
v V- -t?-
Held over from last week, but note-
worthy, is the courteous anticlimax in
one of Sir Cuthbert (Victoria League)
Ackroyd’s speeches: “I note that some
of the ladies here are tall and some are
short; some are slender and some are
not so slender ; some are good-looking
(pause) and some are very good-looking.”
V V V
Welcomed home during the week was
Lady Slim, who arrived by air on Friday
after four months overseas. The
Governor-General met her at the air-
port, and doubtless was an interested
listener to her account of the wedding
of their son, Captain John Slim, of the
Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders, to
Miss Elisabeth Spinney, which was the
reason for Lady Slim’s sojourn abroad.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Let Them Wait
Time-wasting in consulting-
rooms has just about reached
its peak in Sydney. There are
many doctors, dentists and
lesser men in the professional
ranks who seem utterly care-
less of the inconvenience they
cause patients or clients.
1 carefully checked on a
half-dozen patients waiting in
a Macquarie Street specialist’s
quarters. Each one of us had
been asked to attend at 10 a.m.
The last victim did not get a
hearing until 12.15. This kind
of thing happens every day.
On one occasion a very busy
friend of mine made an
appointment three months
ahead. He was present when
the receptionist placed his name
for 9 a.m. at the head of a new
page in her appointment-book.
When the day came he found
three patients ahead of him,
and he cooled his heels until
10.30. Hot words from him
brought an apology and a
promise that it would not
happen again.
The next time I struck it I
reminded my professional
friend that I considered my
time was just as important as
his.
This unnecessary time-
wasting costs the community
too many man-hours and
causes too many frayed
tempers. The more objections
there are the better—l have
stopped it in at least one case.
—R.O. (N.S.W.).
Drink and Driving
According to the annual
report of the Chief Commis-
sioner, Victorian police last
year detected 1178 offences of
driving under the influence of
liquor or drugs. That was 127
more than for the previous
year.
The report adds that “it had
been proved without a doubt
that alcohol was the greatest
cause of accidents of all types.
This is a problem which can-
not simply be left to police law-
enforcement under present
conditions. It is a social prob-
lem which demands effort
based on the resources- of the
whole community in order that
a satisfactory result may be
obtained.”
The Police Commissioner
must be credited with making
a statement based on facts and
free from prejudices. If he
asserts that it has been proved
that alcohol is the greatest
cause of accidents, it’s surely
time the community sat up and
took notice of his remarks.
Solving the problem, as he
pointed out, demands an all-
round community effort, not
merely reliance on law-
enforcement by the police.
Education of the coming
generation is an obvious neces-
sity, impressing on all future
“I don't Want you to GIVE it, Ceorgie—but GET it!"
drivers the dangers of mixing
drink with driving. The crea-
tion of an overwhelming force
of public opinion against the
drinking driver is another. If
we really want to wipe-out the
alcohol-caused road-accident,
we’ll need to make “one for
the road” an inexcusable
offence against social decency
and good sense. — Doynest
(Vic.).
North-west Development
The Federal Budget was a
disappointment to those who
had hoped for some really
practical attempt to encourage
settlement in the North-west.
For years, after every visit by
politicians and other V.I.P.s,
we have heard of the wonderful
“potential” of the North, and
for years very little assistance
has been given to those who
have tried to develop it.
Slowly, however, in spite of
procrastination and setbacks,
some pattern of achievement is
emerging. For a long time it
has been known that the North
is rich in minerals of all kinds,
and in recent years it has been
proved that, with scientific
treatment, many crops will
flourish there. The Old River
experimental station, rice-
growing at Liveringa, the Glen-
roy air-beef scheme, all show
what can be done.
The two main problems are
water and transport, and it will
need bold, farsighted planning
to overcome these obstacles.
And, if there is to be any
great increase in population,
another difficulty will have to
be dealt with in no uncertain
manner.
From a woman’s viewpoint,
the serious drawback to living
in the North is the lack of
higher - education facilities.
Children can attend primary
school or learn by corre-
spondence up to a certain age,
but there comes a time when
they must travel hundreds,
perhaps thousands, of miles to
boarding-school. If their choice
of career demands a university
or other specialised training, it
means they will never live at
home again after the age of
12 or 13.
Apart from the financial
strain involved, this breaking-
up of family life is one of the
main reasons for the reluctance
of young couples to settle
permanently in the North, and
it seems that decentralisation in
a very big way, with modern
towns providing plenty of
opportunities for the coming
generation, will be the only
real solution to the problem.—
Ex-Norwester (W.A.).
Spare That Tree
A few weeks ago a large
cedar-tree growing in the N. S.
Wales North Coast bush was
destroyed and the timber sold.
It was described as 22ft. in
girth (about 7ft. diameter) and
was covered with orchids and
various bush plants.
That tree could and should
have been preserved and pro-
tected as a national monument
and a tourist attraction. It
was described in the Sydney
papers as having been dis-
covered in an inaccessible
locality. That might be good
enough for the Sydney papers.
It wasn't “discovered” the
Forestry and Lands Depart-
ments knew about it for years.
And it was no more “inacces-
sible” than the sights in the
Blue Mountains.
Right now steps should be
taken to preserve and protect
every native tree of exceptional
size. In every other country
such an unusual tree as that
great cedar would have been
saved. Caveman (N.S.W.).
Spending v. Saving
There are strong, if not very
sound, reasons why many
youths “neglect having bank-
accounts” (B. 27/8/’5B).
One is the low rate of interest
offered to savings - bank
depositors. While interest-rates
on many types of investment
—even on Government bonds
—have appreciated during
recent years, savings-bank rates
remain so low that a slight
depreciation in currency-
values is enough to outweigh
the annual interest. To attract
depositors, savings-bank rates
should be raised to something
approaching the rates on short-
period loans.
Second, youths of 18 to 22
have been brought-up in an
inflationary era which has con-
vinced a big section of the
community that thrift is folly;
that the only way to get value
for one’s money is to spend it
before if loses value. In the
spiral generated by cost-of-
living and basic-wage increases,
it was more economical to buy
on hire-purchase terms than to
save one’s money.
Although this situation no
longer prevails, because of the
checking of inflation and the
high interest payable on hire-
purchase loans, the attitude of
mind remains. It is the accepted


I
HASTINGS PEERING FINANCE
& INVESTMENT CO. LIMITED
Paid-up Capital, £700,000 : Assets exceed £1,350,000
TERM DEPOSITS
Bearing interest at the following rates per annum: —
3 months 5%
6 months • BVi%
9 months 6%
12 months 6 1 A%
13 months and over ... 7%
INTEREST PAYMENTS: Quarterly, at the end of
March—June—September—December
Quarterly Audit Certificate at 30/6/"58
showed Assets Cover for each £lOO of
unsecured liabilities to be £342
Certified by — G. T. Hartigan & Co., Chartered Accountants (Aust.)
SALES FINANCING OF FAMOUS PRODUCTS
DISTRIBUTED BY THE
HASTINGS DEERING GROUP OF COMPANIES
In New South Wales
FORD Cars, Commercial Vehicles : FORDSON Tractors
In Queensland
CATERPILLAR Diesel Tractors and Equipment
LANZ Tractors : JOHN DEERE Agricultural Machinery
HYSTER Materials Handling Equipment
Throughout Australia (excluding W.A.)
A.E.C. Trucks and Buses.
The company provides hire-purchase finance to customers of the
Hastings Deering Companies for the above world-famous products
all of which are NEW MERCHANDISE.
•
y Complete printed details, with Auditors’ Certificate re tangible
Assets Cover, and Application Forms, from—
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE
& INVESTMENT CO. LIMITED
William and Crown Streets, Sydney. Telephone: FA 0322 (33 lines)
AND ALL MEMBERS OF SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE
HD49B
thing to buy almost everything
on terms, and only a major
economic depression will cure
the community of this habit.
Finally, the various influences
exerted on the individual are
overwhelmingly in favor of
spending rather than saving.
Public opinion sets great store
on material possessions as the
criterion of one’s standing in
the community ; advertising-
press, radio and TV insists
that the former luxuries of life
are now necessities ; and
Federal and State Governments
—the biggest spenders of all-
set an example of unparalleled
extravagance.
“Frangeo’s” idea of deferred
pay for youths, available on
marriage or at a stipulated age,
would certainly enforce saving.'
But to be really effective it
would have to be only one
feature of a national thrift
campaign.—D. J. G. (Vic.).
The Bank and Lang
George Beesley’s letter (B.
3/9/’5B) repeats a popular mis-
conception that the Bank of
N.S.W. was responsible for
fixing the exchange-rate at 132
and, later, at the present rate
of 125. Actually the gradual
rise in 1931 to £l3l 10s. was
due to the inexorable law of
supply and demand.
The depression which hit us
in 1929 caused a rapid deple-
tion of our then London
balances of about £5O million.
This naturally caused a keen
demand for London money,
the open-market price of which
steadily rose. Exchange was
not then channelled through
the banks as it now is, and
exporters were able to sell their
valuable London funds to
necessitous importers at
gradually rising rates, by ex-
change of cheques, leaving
the banks the chagrin of seeing
their most valuable source of
income bypass them.
The Bank of N.S.W. came
in about October, 1931 (I
think), when the bank’s agreed
rate had risen to about 131.
The general-manager of the
’Wales, Sir Alfred Davidson,
raised his own bank’s rate to
£l3l 10s., which effectively
met the outside competition.
The subsequent fall to 125
was due to the Commonwealth
Bank (then under the chair-
manship of the late Sir Robert
Gibson), which took control
of the exchange situation and
has kept it ever since, main-
taining the rate at 125 in
defiance of the law of supply
and demand, even when our
London funds have reached
the very high levels of recent
years. Is it generally recog-
nised that in the 1952-53
bonanza year, when the value
of our exports reached the
record total of some £AIOOO
million, one-fifth, or £2OO
million, consisted of the ex-
change addition, and that is
still the position to a propor-
tionately less extent?
This would have caused even
greater inflation than we have
experienced if the Common-
wealth Bank had not syphoned-
off 25 per cent, of the increase
in the banks’ deposits to the
special account which it is
only now releasing as falling
export-prices have caused the
need for more financial
liquidity. The Federal Trea-
surer has also done his bit by
maintaining high income-tax
rates.
The 125 exchange-rate is
most beneficial at present to
primary producers, but why,
during the years of 'financial
superabundance, Australia was
not brought into line with the
rest of the Commonwealth and
the exchange-rate reduced to
par with an already depreciated
sterling is a mystery. The
exchange-rate should be a
useful import-control weapon,
not a fixture.
Where Premier Lang came
into the picture was with his
threat to repudiate payment
of interest on our London
loan, which was only frustrated
by the intervention of
Governor Sir Philip Game, who
saved N.S.W. from incal-
culable damage to its credit.
But even then this could hardly


have been possible had not the
banks strained their London
resources to the utmost, and
they deserve much more credit
than is usually accorded them.
Incidentally, N.Z. is now
going through much the same
financial experience as Aus-
tralia had during the depres-
sion, and is having to do to-
day what the banks had to do
then in borrowing £10,000,000
sterling from the Midland
Bank. So far there is no hint
of devaluation of the
Dominion currency, usually—
but surely not in Australia’s
case —a sign of financial weak-
ness. —R. L. (N.S.W.).
The Lambeth Conference
The reference to the Lam-
beth Conference (B. 3/9/’SB)
was slightly astray on the
details about the Lambeth
Conference Report. Until it is
available in Australia it is diffi-
cult to form an accurate
opinion of its contents, so
much comment so far pub-
lished being based on reports
of what the report contains,
and not on the report itself.
When to hand, the 1958
report will, like the 1948
report, consist of two parts:
The Encyclical Letter and the
Resolutions of the Conference:
and The Reports of the Com-
mittees. This second part is
prefaced by an important note:
The following reports must be
taken as having the authority only
of the committees by whom they
were respectively prepared and
presented. The conference, as a
whole, Is responsible only for the
formal resolutions agreed to after
discussion, and printed in Fart 1.
From The Bulletin article
it seems that the statement con-
cerning Australia appears in
Part 2 and is not a “resolution”
but part of a committee report
which would be discussed by
the conference before deciding
upon any resolutions drafted
as a result of what was in it.
Since any resolutions have to
have the unanimous support of
the Bishops present it is
obvious that the Lambeth Con-
ference cannot be said to have
criticised Australia’s Immigra-
tion policy. It will be interest-
ing to learn who were the 42
Bishops on the committee res-
ponsible for this particular
report.
It should be stressed that
until the full official Report of
the Lambeth Conference is
available, comment on what is
reported to be in it is in danger
of imputing to the Bishops of
the Church of England
opinions that they did not, as a
whole, express. —G. H. Officer
(N.S.W.).
“Be careful with that — it's top-secret”
Shortage of Manuscripts?
Australian editors and pub-
lishers are given to bemoaning
the dire shortage of suitable
writing in Australia. The
opposite is the case. At no
time has there been so much
good work on offer —and
rejected on specious grounds.
A few months ago an Aus-
tralian publisher, in the course
of a long newspaper article,
stated that his firm could not
get sufficient Australian book-
length material worth publish-
ing. He is now informed that
four of the books which he
had rejected during the
previous year have been
accepted by London publishers.
One manuscript had been
rejected by four other Aus-
tralian publishers and was also
turned-down by the Common-
wealth Literary Fund. It was
then sent overseas, and early in
the new f year it is due for
simultaneous publication in
the U.S.A., Britain, Australia
and New Zealand.
In another case, a writer
who had been very successful
with short-stories tried with her
first attempt at a novel. All
rejected it, one with the com-
ment that it was “lacking in
narrative and character appeal.”
She tried it on one of London’s
leading publishers, who
accepted it within a month and
asked for an option on her
next two novels.
Another writer also failed
to get his first attempt at a
novel accepted here. It was
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 505
Across
I—Confectionery1—Confectionery loving insects. (8)
s—Whose5 —Whose job is it to say the show's a lemon —certainly
almost citric. (6)
9 —Nothing is dishonest peaches. (8)
10 —Spirit which any priest disturbs. (6)
12— A bore needed to get this information for punters. (3)
13 — Children no longer fond of the vernal season. 19)
15 —Part around one lure. (4)
36 —Articles written by this girl. (4)
17 —Fadden could become irate. (5)
20 — One way to scat a territory noted
for its insularity. (5)
21 — Sail is damaged —but she can
swim very' well! (4)
22 — Assess the value of the candi-
date's paper money. (4)
24 — Conspiring with Peruvian bar-
racking. (2. 7)
25 — A place to take the water-
course information with Lhe
article. (3)
26 Moreover, it’s Henry the
Humorist. (6)
27 — Course this makes a dandy take
a parent vehicle on one. (8)
28 — Freshly emplaces displaced
steers. (6)
29 — Pay stopper who doesn’t get
much pay. (4-4)
Down
1 — -Vigorous and enthusiastic condi-
tion of the cannibals who cap-
tured our war-historian's family.
<4, 2,5)
2 Fiction neither wins nor loses
new departures. (9)
3 Seaman to appear above the
horizon in flower. (6)
4 F.piphany play. (7, 5)
6 Pal cries for facsimiles. (8)
7 Object seen in the night. (5)
8 — Hint to help an actor stick with
Lindrum. (3)
11 —A pianissimo as something like
the “Moonlight” about one other
Beethoven work. (12)
14—Putting an end to a game wed-
ding w in an unconventional
wedding color-scheme. (11)
18— A! to stood in fungus. (9)
19 — Inclination to write vocal
music. (8)
23 The lands of one broken tea-
set. (6)
24 — Jots one on nothing, with the
apple-isle to come. (5)
26—Ntfde put up with this
struggle. (3) _
Solution to Crossword No. 504


STOP LONELINESS!
have the right partner for you.
Hundreds of lonely people of opposite
ex to choose from, everywhere, all
ges, nationalities, occupations, seeking
romance Write TODAY for FREE bro-
. ,“ re W 45. State your age, sex,
ddresß, etc. We reply in plain sealed
'elope. Confidential. No obligation.
B MILTON’S,
Box 2871, G.P.0., Sydney.
*
f/i
ari/etlouS
14 carat L/o
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
fitted with a genuine
14 carat gold nib.
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
fully guaranteed.
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
excellent value.
Ask your Retailer
he knows.
The No. 85L
42 7 6
The Conway Stewart
No. 15 at 29/6
No. 12 at 35/-
No. 76 at 60/-
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD.. LONDON
“Quick, darling—come and have a look at our first
spring flower."
published successfully in Lon-'
don, so were two more, and his
fourth has just been accepted
by the same firm. —Ex-R.S.M.
(S.A.).
Metric Changeover
The change to the metric
system (B. 28/8/’58) will be a
costly business, but so is any
major change in industry.
In fact, these changes are
happening continually: plant
and buildings are scrapped
long before worn-out, and
replaced by establishments that
offer long-term advantages and
economies. Businessmen know
that the longer an obvious
change is delayed, the greater
will be the cost. Govern-
ments have yet to learn this
lesson—hence we are saddled
with an incredibly wasteful
multi - gauge railway - system
decades after the economies
of uniform gauge became
obvious. And the cost of
converting our railways to
•standard gauge, now tardily
commenced, will be immensely
more than if we had tackled
the job years ago.
So with the metric system.
We \vill have to adopt it
eventually ; the sooner we do
so, the cheaper the change will
be. Every industry will have
to bear its own costs ; that is
inescapable and fair enough
anyhow, for every industry will
benefit.
If some industries, such as
engineering, find the change
costs more than for others,
that’s fair enough too —they
will reap a proportionately
greater benefit in the saving of
costs. — WUSSLEAN (Vic.).
Tramps
Hal Porter’s story, “Water-
front” (B. 13 /8 / ’5B), made me,
an old salt of 25 years’
experience, wonder —until I saw
the name of the steamship
Dalia. That explained every-
thing. Porter makes use of
Mauritius men and Afrikanders
in his story. He is technically
wrong when he calls the Dalia
a tramp.
There were three ships, the
Erica, the Aloe and the Dalia,
which belonged to the South
African Railways and operated
regularly between South Africa
and Western Australian ports,
where they loaded jarrah rail-
way sleepers for their owners.
Outward bound to this country
they carried cargo for profit,
which explains their frequent
presence in Melbourne. I don’t
suppose any other ships visit-
ing this section of the globe
would be manned by such
characters.
But let's get this tramp-
steamer business fixed for good.
There is no such thing as the
“small 1000 - ton tramp -
steamer” favored of fiction.
A tramp is a cargo-vessel
operating with homogeneous
cargoes anywhere in the world
where such cargo is offering,
and therefore on no regular
run or schedule. To pay its
way it needs to carry about
9500 tons of cargo. Any cargo-
vessel on a regular run is not
a tramp but a cargo-liner. She
usually takes general and
mixed, instead of homogeneous,
cargoes.— Benbow (Q.).
Medical Tests for Drivers
On one of our local roads
a road-haulier stopped to check
his load and a car crashed
into the rear of his truck.
Doctors certified later that the
car-driver was dead when the
accident happened. There have
been other similar accounts of
drivers sitting dead in their
still-moving cars at the time
of an accident. I know of men
who are expected to drop dead
in their tracks without warn-
ing ; men with chronic heart-
troubles or subject to stroke ;
men who are not permitted to
work where there is any
possible danger to anyone at
all —and all freely allowed to
drive anywhere. Yet M. F.
Dixon objects to this state of
affairs being brought under
some control (B. 27 /8 / ’5B).
It’s strange logic that the
police may stop a vehicle at
any time and demand that its
roadworthiness be checked, yet
are not permitted to demand
that a driver be examined to see
if he is medically fit to drive.
I know of one man who
obtained his licence to drive
when he returned from World
War I and who has had no
test since. For years he had
no car, but renewed his driving-
licence regularly because he
would never get another. He
is now classified at t.p.i. and
is subject to heart-attacks, but
there is no query about his
ability to drive. —J. J. A.
(Vic.)


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
ADELAIDE ROYAL SHOW
By CHRIS GRIFFITH
/''J.oing out to Wayville for the
first day of this year’s
Adelaide Royal Show, the taxi-
driver said: “Don't think
there’ll be many there this year.
Most of the passengers say
it will just be the same old
Show. And they can’t be
bothered going.”
Each year you hear the same
story before a Show begins, but
at the last moment the public
seems to change its mind,
making the taxi-driver wrong.
By the time the Show finished
a week later, 430,000 people
had filed through the turnstiles.
This is 60,000 more than last
year, and a solid performance
in a city with a population of
only half-a-million
By the time it was all over,
the S.A.R.A. and H. S. presi-
dent, Sir Keith Angas, was
able to say: “One of the best
Shows ever.”
Even State Premier Sir
Thomas Playford spoke-up with
enthusiasm. He thought the
Research has been
conducted on the
effect of hand feeding
sheep during drought.
It has been shown
that deaths were far
less frequent when
sheep were given a
whole week’s ration
once a week than
when they received
the same amount
divided into seven
daily feeds. Deaths
of lambs at marking
and tailing are far
less amongst those
where the Elastrator
method has been used
than is the case where
marking and failing
has been carried out
by any other way.
Show reflected the prosperity
of South Australia.
After all, he pointed out, the
S.A. wool-clip had grown from
an average of 76-million lb.
in the 10 years before 1938
to 150-million in the past 10
JUDGING THE FRIESIANS AND A.IS. AT ADELAIDE SHOW
years. Cereal-production had
jumped from 42-million to 55-
million bushels. Industrial out-
put had more than trebled.
“I believe the Show Society
has played a conspicuous part
in this great development,” Sir
Thomas said.
Progress, of course, does not
benefit everyone. While
machinery-stands sparkled im-
pressively in their red and
yellow paint, a touching side-
light of the Show came in an
announcement that a £20,000
club-house would be erected by
the Commonwealth Clydesdaie
Horse Society—in memory of
the heavy horse.
Merinos
In the Merino section of the
judging, L. B. Rayner and Son,
of The Bluff, Hallett (S.A.),
paraded the grand-champion
ram for the second year in a
row. They collected an im-
pressive list of other trophies,
too. With a team of 24 sheep
in the open classes, they
paraded the champion strong-
wool ram, champion and
reserve-champion strong-wool
ewe, champion and reserve-
champion medium-wool ram,
and champion medium-wool
ewe. They also exhibited the
champion ewe’s fleece for
the eighth year in a row.
Long - established breeders
W. B. Ashby and Sons, of
Ashrose, Hallett (S.A.), took
the Jubilee Challenge Trophy
for the best group of five
Merino sheep equivalent to
Sydney’s Stonehaven Cup.
Other grand-championship
awards went to relative new-
comers to Adelaide competi-
tion. J. and F. Sullivan and
Co., of Greenfields, Hallett
(S.A.), exhibited the reserve
grand-champion ram, at their
first competitive visit to a
Royal Show.
C. K. Paech, of Tepko (S.A.),
in a remarkable performance
for a man exhibiting in the
section for flocks of under 1000
sheep, paraded both grand-
champion and reserve grand-
champion ewe.
Poll Merino entries jumped
from 27 to 44 this year, reflect-
ing the interest in the hornless
sheep. R. W. Lehmann and
Sons, Flairville, Georgetown
(S.A.), exhibited strong-wool
and medium-wool Poll Merino
champion rams. C. R. Mclnnis,
of Hallett (S.A.), exhibited the
champion strong-wool ewe,
while E. M. Davidson and Co.,
of Golnare (S.A.), exhibited the
medium-wool champion ewe.
Ram Auctions
Contrasting with sticky
jparkets in earlier eastern-
States sales this year, a con-
fident tone permeated the
Merino-ram auctions which
followed. Certainly the sales’
average was down slightly, but
bidding was brisk and compe-
tition widespread. During the
two-day sale, 42 studs offered
296 rams, selling 223 for an
average of £165 3s. Last year
249 rams sold out of a cata-
logue of 315, for an average of
£203.
John Collins and Sons,
Collinsville, Mt. Bryan (S.A.),
again dominated the sale. They
brought a team of 25, selling
15 for an average of £5lB 7s.
They sold a ram at 2000gns. to
Show grand-champion ex-
hibitor L. B. Rayner and Son.
Last year Collinsville had set
a South Australian record of
3250gns. at the same sale.
East Bungaree stud (S.A.)
actually finished with a higher
average at £542 10s. But they
brought a team of only four,
selling three for top price of
lOOOgns.
Koonoona stud (S.A.)
finished third in the averages
with £507 10s. for three sheep.
North Bungaree stud (S.A.)
sold a ram for 1900gns.
Stud Beef-cattle
The stud beef-cattle sale-
ring did not share the confident
atmosphere of the Merino
pavilion. Competition was


start the day right!
rSfffg '
Best
Mineral
Supplement
k\
If
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65 % tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
OS
CM-
ISO
sit*"-
BOH*
r*» v
llH****
4
‘Dit-€a£(k
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Tiny particulars gladly supplied —
Write to DAVIS CELATINE: C.P.O. Box 35*9,
SYDNEY • G.P.O. .Box 4058, MELBOURNE •
C.P.O. Box 712 F, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Box 758 K,
BRISBANE * Box H. 588, C.P.0., PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
restricted, and only 22 of 70
cattle found buyers. A Poll
Hereford topped the sale when
R. G. Bryant, of Mount Fyans,
Camperdown (Vic.), sold the
supreme champion, Mount
Fyans Brigadier, for 900gns., to
A. and A. M. Penna, of South
Hammocks (S.A.).
Highest price for an S.A.-
bred animal was 575gn5., paid
for a Prongorong Flag Lieu-
tenant, bred by J. N. Keynes,
of Keyneton (S.A.).
In the show-ring a record
of 332 entries paraded before
judges in the beef-cattle section.
As at inter-State Shows,
imported blood was con-
spicuous.
Poll Herefords predominated
with force of numbers—they
had 70 entries.
The supreme bull was R. G.
Bryant’s top sale animal, and
the highest cow honor went
to J. W. Spehr and Son's
Coongra Innovation 7th, in this
section.
In the rest of the beef-cattle
section, top prize-winners
were:
Shorthorn: Supreme bull,
J. N. Keynes’s Prongorong
Flag Lieutenant; cow, R. A.
Norris’s Faversham Fairy
Charm.
Poll Shorthorn: Supreme
bull, J. N. Keynes’s Prongorong
Forester; cow, W. B. Ashby
and Sons, Ltd.’s Bundaleer
Niblett.
Hereford: Supreme bull, E.
W. and U. Hayward’s Bwlchllyn
Murray ; cow, L. H. and I. M.
Bennett's Heatherdale Almond.
Aberdeen Angus: Supreme
bull, R. C. Shepherd’s Tallara
Vauban ; cow, J. H. Germein’s
Ballater Chrissie.
Devon : Supreme bull, A. A.
Laidlaw’s Newstead No. 890 ;
cow, Mrs. J. M. Officer’s Kil-
morey South Apricot 41st.
Red Poll: Supreme bull,
J. F. Martin’s Woodburn
Enterprise ; cow, W. G. J. Beer
and Sons’ Plymouth Dorcas.
The Hereford bull Bwlchllyn
Murray was appearing for the
first time in Australia. It took
the championship at the 1957
English Hereford Herd Book
Show.
Dairy-cattle
In the dairy section, top
cattle impressed ringsiders with
their quality, but many cattle
further down the line-ups
showed the effects of a hard
season.
In an entry of 646 dairy-
cattle, the Ayrshires were not
represented this year.
Jerseys were strongest, with
302 entries. Prizes were dis-
tributed among 19 breeders,
but A. Kelly, of Hahndorf
(S.A.), came through to take
the champion cow, Alexandra
Bell’s Junette, from the five-
year-old in-milk class.
Mr. Kelly has bred five
Adelaide champions and one
reserve-champion, but, as his
property is up for auction,
this may have been his last
Show.
L. W. Wienert, of Woodside
(S.A.), paraded the champion
bull, Mappinga Mickey Doone.
Undoubtedly one of the
highlights of this year’s Jersey
section was the judging of Mr.
N. H. Enders, of The Wattles,
Stanhope (Vic.). It was a
pleasure to watch him at work.
He made his decisions with
speed and with consistency in
the type of animal he picked.
R. K. Llewellyn and Son’s
Lynonga Fuchsia 3rd was the
champion A.I.S. cow, and J. B.
Snell and Co., of Bolivar (S.A.),
won the bull award with Glen-
lawn Royal Monarch. The
Friesian champion cow was
R. J. Sims’s Larratinga Carna-
tion Pearl. C. H. Norman’s
Ettrick Olga’s King won the
bull award.
B. H. Basham, of Pleasant
Banks, Pt. Elliot (S.A.),
dominated the Guernsey sec-
tion. He exhibited the cham-
pion cow, Pleasant Banks
Madge, and D. H. Wiese, of
Mundalla (S.A.), won the bull
championship with Pleasant
Banks Don (an old hand at
taking tricolor ribbons), which
was bred by Mr. Basham.
A two-year-old Friesian
heifer, Allenby Lulu, exhibited
by C. H. Norman, of Beverley
(S.A.), won the award for
grand-champion dairy cow of
the Show. This cow won the
reserve female championship in
the Friesian section. The
champion Jersey cow stood
second to Lulu.
British Sheep Breeds
British breeds of sheep turned
on an impressive display.
Quality combined with record
entries (564) to draw praise
from ringsiders and judges
alike.
Again Dorset Horns, with
166 entries, dominated the
section. All ram and ewe
champions and reserve-
champions in this breed came
from the two under-
classes —the biggest line-ups in
the sheep pavilion on judging-
day. E. W. L. Dawkins, of
Gawler (S.A.), exhibited the
champion ram, and C. M. Hart,
of Two Wells (S.A.), won the
ewe.
Commented the judge, A. E.
Day, of Allendale, Alma (S.A.):
“The under-H-year class
which produced the champion
and reserve-champion ewe was
the best ever seen at Adelaide.”
Other British-breeds cham-
pions were:
Poll Dorset : Ram, A. E. Day
and Sons. Ewe, W. J. Dawkins,
Newbold, Ltd.
Border Leicester : Ram, R. R.
King and Sons. Ewe, D. E. Brown
and Son.
English Leicester: Ram, A. A.
Hill. Ewe, V. Smart.
Romney Marsh : P.am, J. A.
Long. Ewe, D. C. Cowell.
Southdown : Ram, R. A. Hughes,
Ewe, Glen Shera Trustees.
Suffolk: Ram and ewe, A. E.
Day and Sons.
Shropshire: Ram and ewe, R.
Harper.
Cheviot: Ram, H. R. Walsh and
Sons. Ewe, R. F. and P. M.
Williams.
Ryeland: Ram and ewe, M. and
T. Paternoster.
Corriedale ram and ewe
champions were both exhibited
by H. L. Lush and Sons, of
Corriedale Hills, Inman Valley
(S.A.). In the Polvvarths, E. 1.
and Mrs. P. M. Ashby, of
Victor Harbor (S.A.), gained
both awards.
Pigs
Highlight of the pig section
this year was undoubtedly the
remarkable wins of S. L.
Dawkins, of Para Wirra,
Gawler (S.A.). Apart from
taking both senior Large White
championships, he won ribbons
for junior-champion sow and
boar, and reserve-champion
boar. He also-took 10 firsts,
eight seconds and two thirds.
Inter-State judges rated the
quality of the S.A. pigs this
year as equal to anything in
Australia.
J. B. Snell and Co., of
Bolivar (S.A.), exhibited the
champion Berkshire boar, and
C. E. Lienert, of Sheoak Log
(S.A.), exhibited the sow.
K. L. Davis and Sons, of
Strathalbyn (S.A.), exhibited
both champion Tamworth boar
and sow.
Use of Land
“Glenelg”: Australian agri-
culture has reached a stage
where it’s a toss-up between
clearing more country and
improving it, or more intensely
using land which has already
been developed.
Much of the new land —in
southern Australia, at any rate
—is of low natural fertility
and needs building-up with
fertilisers before it becomes
productive.
By the time a newcomer has


bought it, cleared it, fertilised
it, sown it, and fenced and
watered it, he’s run-up a bill
not much below the price of
improved land. Even then,
communications are not always
up to standard in new areas.
So it’s clear that the closer
settlement of already-developed
land has advantages. Large-
scale clearing and improvement
schemes by the State and long-
term leases might be the answer
to the future settlement of
virgin country.
Constant Attack
“Sextant”: Sponsored by
Port Elliot (S.A.) District
Council, an all-the-year-round
attack on rabbits on a district
basis may prove to be the final
answer to bunny.
H. A. Jacobs, who is respon-
sible for this work, has
organised a continuous cam-
paign on every property, which
seems much better than rely-
ing on myxo. or even 1080 to
do the whole job.
Victoria’s scheme for estab-
lishing District Advisory Rabbit
Control Committees has a
similar objective, and deserves
success—and emulation.
Another Big Chip
“Stan”: Bill Howard (B.
3 / 9 / ’5B) doesn’t mind quoting
airy figures “cheques for
nearly £lOOO . . . shearing costs
alone”—but let’s take a closer
look at it.
If a grazier has his shearing
done “cost plus" it generally
costs from 3s. to 3s. 6d. a
head for the total shearing. A
fixed-price quote might be 45.,
but often it’s considerably
more. If he does it himself, the
cost will be a few pence lower
than the “cost plus" price. Of
this, the shearer gets a fraction
of a penny. Apparently it is
with these penny-fractions that
Howard aims to save the wool
industry, though he doesn’t
mind throwing a contractor a
probable profit of about Is. per
head.
He goes on to say that “the
industry can’t afford such a
big capital-investment” as “the
huts —used only about three
weeks a year.” In fact, they’re
used a lot more than three
weeks a year—a bit of wet
weather will soon see to that.
Then there’ll be at least one
crutching, and sometimes up
to three, not to mention casual
use by station employees. On
any property there are
paddocks used for sheep only
a month or so a year—aren’t
the gates and fences round
these another big capital-invest-
ment that the industry can ill
afford? -Logically they should
be wiped, too!
That “knock-off at smoke-oh
on Fridays” was startling news
to our boss-of-the-board (who’s
spent about 30 years in the
industry) and the other shearers
here, one of whom has been
in it about 40 years.,
As to the uses “and abuses”
of the “wet vote,” no doubt
there are some irresponsibles
who abuse it, but they are
few and far between, and it’s
quite possible that graziers who
suffer from such types get the
shearers they deserve. There
have also been cases where
classers have stopped the shed
because of damp wool when
the shearers wanted to go on.
Further, a day or so lost at a
shed can mean the loss of a
following shed or the break-up
of a team, due to rearrange-
ments in the contractor’s
schedule.
Good shearers are at least as
highly skilled as welders, brick-
layers, or toolmakers, and have
to work much more solidly.
They get no sick-pay, holiday-
pay, overtime, pensions, tool-
allowance or travelling-
expenses —and nothing in wet
weather. By industrial standards
they work a 9-hour or 10-hour
day, so it’s hard to deny that
good shearers give as good or
better value for money than
most other workers.
Anyone connected with
the manufacture and supply of,
for example, agricultural
machinery, veterinary equip-
ment or fencing - materials
has an effect on the wool
industry—so, instead of taking
a swing at shearers, Howard
might try a lash at the
price of, say, drenches (one
shot of ready-mixed pheno-
thiazine costs about as much as
a shearer gets for shearing a
sheep) or the cost of fencing-
materials. And how about
getting value for money from
garages or electricians, for
instance?
In the long view, the only
constructive approach is to busy
ourselves with methods of
selling more wool of better
quality at fairer prices.
Growing Mushrooms
“Big Billy”: Mushroom-
spawn, available from reputable
seedsmen, may be planted
below the turf in open
paddocks, preferably with
fermenting stable - manure
around it. November to
February are the best months,
with February likely to give
the best results.
Take out turves about 12in.
square with about Hin. of soil
adhering. Remove 3in. or 4in.
of soil and press the manure
mixed with the spawn firmly
into the cavity. Plantings
should be at least 2ft. apart. If
the weather is dry, water the
area to keep the turf moist and
alive.
A more reliable method of
culture is to use beds contain-
ing properly fermented stable-
manure or specially balanced
composts. Mushrooms will also
grow successfully in enclosed
areas—for instance, in sheds
or glasshouses where an equable
temperature can be main-
tained. The building must be
ventilated, but kept free from
draughts, and the temperature
should not drop below 70deg.
Fahrenheit.
The difficulty of obtaining
suitable animal-manure has led
to the development of various
synthetic composts, which
seem satisfactory.
Beds may be either flat or
ridged, while boxes are best
for interior culture. These
boxes should be at least lOin.
deep and 24in. long by 18in.
wide. Flat beds shouldn’t be
too wide to facilitate picking,
with a general depth of Bin. to
lOin. Ridged beds must have
at least 3ft. 6in. between ridges.
They should be 2ft. 6in. wide at
the base and 2ft. high, with the
top about 6in. wide.
Beds should be built on
planks raised above the ground
to avoid dampness ; the posi-
tion t should be changed every
year.
inside walls need cleaning
to destroy fungi.
Spawn should be set accord-
ing to the instructions on the
packet. Usually, pieces of spawn
are inserted about lOin. apart
in a diagonal pattern all over
the bed, planted to 2in.
deep. It’s necessary to see that
the spawn is in contact with the
compost all around. When
finished, the beds should be.
covered with straw.
The first mushrooms should
appear in from six to eight
weeks in an enclosed area and
eight to 12 weeks outside. After
cropping, a dressing of salt—l
tablespoonful to 2gals. water
—at weekly intervals will do
good if the beds are dry. This
fertiliser-dressing is worth
remembering: |lb. ammonium-
sulphate, Rib. pure calcium-
carbonate (lime) and Rib.
gypsum to lcwt. manure.
Farm Hint
“Van”: The importance of
warmth for young pigs can’t
be too highly stressed. I hang
a hurricane-lamp in a draught-
free creep built inside each
farrowing-house, and the pig-
lets show their appreciation for
the lamp by always sleeping
under it, starting to use the
creep when only two days old.
(For any pig-raiser who has
electricity laid-on in his piggery
infra-red lamps are even more
valuable.) This hurricane-
lamp also makes it easier to
watch and help the sow when
necessary at farrowing-time.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(11/9/’58)
Light to moderate patchy rains are indicated in southern
Queensland during October, but rainfall may be poor else-
where. Similar rainfall is likely in November, with good
rains throughout the State during December.
Rainfall may also be patchy in N.S.W. during October,
although moderate rain may occur in central and south coast
and tablelands areas and on the South-west Slopes. Light
to moderate patchy rains are indicated in November, and
good general rains in December.
Good rains are indicated in the central and western
divisions of Victoria, Gippsland and the north-east area
during October, although light to moderate patchy rains are
likely in the Mailee and the northern division. Similar rains
may occur in November, with good general rains in
December.
The agricultural areas of South Australia may have
good rains in October. Varying from light to moderate in
the Murray Valley, rainfall may be poor in the upper-north
and interior. Mainly dry conditions are likely in November,
with good general rains in December.
Rainfall will probably be light in Western Australia
during October, apart from moderate rain on the s.-w. coast.
Rainfall may be poor during November, with good rains
in the Kimberleys and part of the south-west during
December.
LENNOX WALKER.


WOND
W
(t
A
GREASE
r
I M f
l
*
ONE GREASE... ONE GUN
Why use specialised greases when one grease
will do all jobs . . . and do them better?
Ampol Lithium-base Multi-purpose Grease
is amazingly versatile ... it resists heat, cold,
water, rust and corrosion . . . affords com-
plete protection under all service conditions.
It stays in bearings longer ; keeps out dirt
and grit; means substantial savings in time
and maintenance costs. From this moment
on . . . use only one gun, one grease . • •
Ampol Multi-purpose.
Except where equipment manufacturer specifies
a free flowing, semi-fluid grease or gear oil for
the lubrication of track rollers on crawler
tractors.
m
***•:::«
& tt=>B=a
nuw : une grease
for all these farm
... one gun
jobs—
Farm Machinery
Complete protection for
shearing machinery,
pumps, windmills and
other stationary
equipment.
II
Farm Implements
Harvesters, combines, disc
ploughs—all mobile
equipment, including
wheel tractors.
Cars, Trucks, Wheel Traders
All chassis points, springs,
shackles, water-pumps,
universal joints, wheel bearings.
I
AUSTRALIAN OWNED
m '
+* vt
•> '
-:
mm
ligi
mv*
& ' . y -:*
:■-: .
nrcm'iHd.i
GREASE
MULTI-PURPOSE
RED
—V


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copy of Bill Beatty’s Land so
Different. —6746.
Information Supplied
From In B. 22/1 /’5B
someone asked for the meaning of
the aboriginal word bidgeemia. It
means “Little Home,” and was used
for the township allotment-site
when Urangeline station, in the
Riverina, was cut up for soldier-
settlement after World War I.
Bidgeemia is the civic centre for the
Urangeline Soldiers’ Settlement
there.
Information Sought
Descriptions of tiger-snake and
carpet-snake ?
In general build the tiger-snake
resembles the brown-snake, differ-
ing mainly in having alternate bands
of a light and dark shade. The
ground color varies according to
environment, and may be olive-
brown, light-tan or reddish-brown.
The tiger-snake grows to about 4ft.
6in. and is highly venomous. The
carpet-snake is one of the pythons,
a variety of the diamond-snake. Its
length is about 12ft. and its body
is variously marked with a dark
pattern and spots of yellowish color.
It is from this irregular pattern
that it gets its name.
« • • *
Recipe for pickling capers 1
Cover with a brine made by boil-
ing lib. fine salt in 4gals. water.
Stand overnight. Bring just to
boiling-point, strain and fill steril-
ised bottles or jars with the capers.
Tie in a piece of muslin a clove
of garlic, a few peppercorns and
some blades of mace. Place in the
required quantity of vinegar ; boil
for smin., then strain and allow
to cool slightly. Pour into bottle
with the capers, filling to overflow-
ing. When cold, pour out a little
of the vinegar to make room for
the cork. When corked, dip top
into melted sealing-wax. Keep at
least three weeks before using.
* * * *
Is a banker compelled to observe
the directions on a crossed cheque ?
The Bills of Exchange Act
(1909-36) provides that if a banker
pays a cheque crossed generally
otherwise than to a banker, or, if
crossed specially, pays it otherwise
than to the banker to whom it is
crossed or his agent for collection,
being a banker, such banker is liable
to the true owner of the cheque for
loss he may sustain owing to the
cheque having been so paid. It
has been held that the paying-bank
has nothing to do with the applica-
tion of the money after it has once
been paid to the proper receiving-
bank.
* * * *
Details of the N.S.W . rural-
electricity subsidy-scheme ?
Under the N.S.W. Government
rural subsidy-scheme subsidy is
paid to electricity-supply, authorities
towards making supply available to
new consumers in ruraT districts,
including villages. Consumers to be
served are subject to certain condi-
tions of eligibility; subsidy assist-
ance generally is given towards
constructing extensions into areas,
residents of which form part of the
rural community by engaging in
primary-production or associated
service.
Subsidy is based on the eligible
capital-cost of a project accepted
by the Electricity Authority. This
cost is obtained from the estimated
capital-cost got from standard
estimating rates for rural construc-
tion. Eligible capital-cost cannot
exceed' £4OO per anticipated con-
sumer ; maximum subsidisable cost
of an extension would be £4OO-times
the number of accepted consumers.
For example: if the cost of con-
struction to serve three farms was
£1320, that is, £440 per consumer,
total cost eligible for subsidy would
be £l2OO. Annual subsidy would
be £5O over a period of 15 years,
totalling £750 or 62.5 per cent, of
eligible cost. If the cost was £705
(an average of £235 per farm),
eligible cost would be £705, subsidy
£2B annually, with an aggregate of
£420 over 15 years or 59.7 per cent,
of eligible cost.
High-tension or low-tension con-
struction doesn’t affect the calcula-
tion of subsidy. But low-tension
extensions, having an average of
less than £lOO per consumer served,
are ineligible for subsidy. For
technical reasons nearly all eligible
extensions involve high-tension
building.
• * • •
Hew is mustard manufactured ?
The seed is ground as finely as
possible to produce “mustard-flour”
—usually with blending of different
varieties of seed. A flavoring is
then made-up by mixing salt and
various spices, such as pepper and
curry-powder, in vinegar. The
vinegar is brought to the boil and
stirred while hot into the mustard-
flour to product a paste. Prepara-
tion of high-grade mustard is a
culinary art; good results can’t be
achieved without a great deal of
experience.
* * * *
Summary of Kingsford Smith’s
notable flights ?
In June, 1927, around Australia
in Bristol Tourer; June, 1928,
U.S.A. to Australia in Fokker
F.7-3M Aircraft VH-USU (“South-
ern Cross”); 1928, non-stop flight
from Point Cook (Vic.) to Perth,
W.A., and return ; September, 1928,
Richmond,. N.S.W., to Christchurch,
-N.Z.; October, 1928, return-flight
across Tasman Sea; June-July,
1929, England-Australia flight in 12
days 18hrs. (record); June, 1930,
Ireland to Newfoundland, 32hrs.
12min.; October, 1930, England to
Australia in an Avro Avian in 10
days; October, J 933, England-
Australia by stages in Percival Gull
in 7 days 4hrs. 50min. (record).
On November 6, 1935, he left Eng-
land for Australia in the “Lady
Southern Cross” and was last heard
of near Burma. His aircraft was
presumed to have crashed into the
sea.
* * • *
Brief information on Soccer’s
World Cup?
The first World Cup was held in
Montevideo (Uruguay), and was
won by Uruguay, with Argentina
runner-up. In 1934 it was held in
Italy, and was won by Italy, with
Czechoslovakia runner-up. Italy
retained the Cup in 1938, in France,
with Hungary finishing second.
The fourth World Cup was not
held till 1950, when, in Rio de
Janeiro, Uruguay defeated Brazil in
the final 2-1. In 1954, in Switzer-
land, West Germany was victor,
defeating Hungary 3-2 in tjhe final.
This year’s Cup, in Sweden (for
which a record 53 nations entered),
was won by Brazil, defeating
Sweden 5-2 in the final.
* * * *
Details of the Dent Island (Q.)
lighthouse ?
Dent Island lighthouse, estab-
lished in 1879, is on the west side,
one mile from the south point, at
lat. 20° 22' S., long. 148° 57' E.
Candle-power, 22,500; there is one
flash every 2.5 seconds. Elevation,
120 ft. above sea-level; visibility in
clear weather, 16 miles. The
building is a 33ft.-h.igh white
circular iron tower with a red dome.
* * * *
How to clean a white-marble
statuette ?
Soap and water may be used,
but the soapiness must be washed
off quickly and thoroughly. Place
the statuette in a bath of fairly
warm water containing dissolved
soapflakes and a dash or two of
cloudy ammonia. Clean carefully
and quickly with a soft brush, rinse
repeatedly in changes of water and
dry with a cloth. A second clean-
ing in unsoapy water, using a
pointed but soft wooden stick for
crevices, is recommended. If stains
are obstinate, clean with a weak
solution of oxalic-acid (get it from
your chemist) applied with a soft
rag and washed off immediately.
A fine kitchen-abradant can ~ also
The Hollidays
By Middy
“You re staying under there until she goes !”


Knp mom
'irfMis
SANDERS
Correspondence, invoices.
Wotements. etc.. filed i„ the
Sanders" can be securely
ond converted inks a
P*r«ct boolc ol reference ai
® *nd of each rnonih —or
'T other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
ADELAu,g * • Norman Bros. Ply. Ltd-
ftßia * • i Vardan Prlc* L«d.
* . , Oooket Book Co. lAuou:
Prices and fur-
ther information
upon application
1 — ■■ - ■ -
Military Collectors
Australian in London can supply col-
lectors with service medals and decora-
tions from 1793, British and Foreign;
also badges, antique pistols, swords and
all types of militaria, including Nazi
items. For list write to BM/NOMAD,
London, W.C.I, stating particular in-
terest. Dealers’ inquiries invited.
helps the
businessman
: \
coo
The facilities and services of this bank can help the
businessman to solve his problems in a practical way.
- Should he travel in this country or abroad, the bank
can help with itineraries and bookings, trade introductions
and many other aids to businessmen.
1_
FM
V/' <S*dg&Br/. '
mm
The friendly advice of
experienced officers in all
departments is available to
C.B.C. customers.
Modern procedure
makes the operation of a
savings account with the
C.B.C. Savings Bank a
simple matter for any
member of a family.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDMEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANY
be used, but not a modern deter-
gent. If still not clean, your only
recourse is a formula involving the
use of hard-to-obtain chemicals.
This application needs great care;
the chemicals are not very safe to
handle.
* * * *
(1) Largest cattle-station in Aus-
tralia ? (2) What is the largest
station on record ?
(1) One source lists Alexandria
Downs, N.T., 13,000 sq„ miles in
size. No details are available as to
whether this reference means the
largest station on record or at the
present time. In 1936 Victoria
River Downs,. also N.T., had
11,260 sq. miles, but it is now
reduced to 5200 sq. miles.
Another source of information
says that in 1955 Alexandria Downs
covered 11,262 sq. miles, but that
Victoria River Downs may have
been larger at one stage.
There seems to be partial agree-
ment that Alexandria Downs is the
largest station at present, but the
position regarding the largest station
on record is somewhat obscure.
The similarity of the 11,260 acres
may be a coincidence, or a case of
mistakenly applied details. Suggest
you write to the Chief Veterinary
Officer, Animal Industry Division,
Northern Territory Administration,
Box 87, P. 0., Alice Springs.
Brief Answers
F.R.: No statistics available....
E.W.: Cat is probably suffering
from both worms and a gastric
disorder. Veterinary treatment is
necessary. The animal should not
be allowed to drink water; barley-
water may be substituted... .H.N.:
Procedure is in order if rules pro-
vide for an open ballot and not a
secret 0ne....K.L.: Poem was
written by Whittier N.N.: (1)
Yes, subject to the contract. (2)
The owner at the time notice is
given is responsible... .P.L.: The
Maori word “Temuka” is a corrup-
tion of *‘Te Umukaha.” literally
the oven of strength,” a sacred
fire used in certain war-rites.
8.D.: Times are as follows: Bris-
bane- 6.43 p.m.; Sydney, 7.06 p.m.;
Melbourne, 7.43 p.m., and Hobart,
7.50 p.m..... A.F.: Measurements
°1 Inis type are usually made by
engineers or surveyors with a
theodolite or prismatic compass and
a tape or surveyor’s chain.
Amplest form of determining a
specific distance is to set-out a
measured base-line at right-angles to
the fine of the unknown distance,
then measure the angle the base-
tine makes with the point on the
far side of the valley or stream.
The unknown distance can then be
found by the use of trigonometry;
i.e., the tangent of the measured
angle multiplied by the length of
the base - line Inquirer 6745:
Dymock’s, Ltd., 424 George Street,
Sydney, report that they can let
you have copies of those books.
. ...D.A.: Customs-duty and sales-
tax is payable on goods classed as
gifts from N.Z.; where it is estab-
lished that they are genuine gifts
a lenient view is taken of the value
on which duty is assessed. Assum-
ing your goods are of N.Z. origin,
duties normally payable would be:
Electroplated ware, Customs-duty
£1 2s. 6d., sales-tax £1 16s. 9d.;
silver piece, Customs-duty £5 12s.
6d., sales-tax £9 3s. 9d.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor,
thinks necessary.
T.R.: That sort of light verse
needs a defter touch... .J.V.: A
thought in the third stanza....
N.C.: Try to write about the things
you’ve observed with your own
eyes H.W.: No perch here for
the rooster G.G.: Still awk-
ward... .S.R.D.: Rhyme the thing.
....L.T.: Usual observations on
desirability of living under a gum-
tree;.. .E.M.: Condense... .8.L.:
“Furry fine fellows frolicked free,
unafraid.” Fluffy... .A.E.: Nearly
made it that time; try for less
gush, more economy in words.


to go to a school with social
prestige, either because they
-think the background will be
useful to the boys in later life
(as it often is), or to gratify
their own social ambitions;
and to achieve one or the other
objective some parents in
middling circumstances make
quite pathetic sacrifices. So
far as I know, there is no par-
ticular social prestige attached
to having gone to Yanco, so
from that point of view the
school is a dead loss.
But there remains a good
deal to be said for schools like
Yanco, and outside school-
magazines, Old Boys’ publica-
tions and the like, very little of
it has been said in print.
An exception is an article
written some years ago for a
geographical magazine by,
oddly enough, an Englishman
—a Regular Army major and
famous canoeist, who, canoe-
ing down our Murrumbidgee,
came on the school, so to speak,
by surprise, and was sufficiently
impressed to put on record his
opinion that, with one possible
exception in England, Yanco
most closely- approached the
perfect environment for school-
boys he had seen in his con-
siderable travels.
That, more or less (although
with no claim to the canoeing
major’s breadth of experience),
is my opinion. The place had
defects, and doubtless still has
them, but I am grateful I went
there.
And, since education is a
subject on " which just about
everyone has a theory, it seems
worth while to examine what
Yanco had to offer, not with
any idea of prodding parents
into sending their sons there
(it’s highly probable most of
them wouldn’t get in, anyway),
but to see whether that sort of
secondary education, or some
modification of it, should be
extended or not; whether such
an extension would be a good
thing, or hardly worth the
trouble and expense ; good,
that is to say, in relation to
individual boys and to the
country.
A bout 1000 acres in (but just
inside) the Murrumbidgee
Irrigation Area; the school
land coming down to the river ;
across the river the “dry”
country, which, in some sum-
mers, was dry indeed. So,
standing on our side of the
river, it was possible to see the
contrast between irrigated and
non-irrigated land.
At'least, by walking back a
bit, either taking the long way
round past Mr. Bible’s house
and along the cumbungi-
choked canal to the scattered
school-buildings on either side
of the canal, or cutting through
the sucker forest towards the
dairy, with the image of the
land on the other side of the
river in the mind’s eye, the
contrast was clear enough.
There, dusty earth and tough,
sun - bleached native pasture,
with rather more dust than
grass. Here —in small, trim,
green paddocks (behind the
whitewashed dairy), in which
grazed small, trim Jerseys (not
the milking-herd, which grazed
elsewhere, but young stock,
and the trim, dangerous little
Jersey bulls) —the pampered
improved-pastures which only
had to hint a thirst for
“Bluey” Mcßean, the dairy-
instructor, to let water in.
The contrast must have
influenced the thinking of a
good many boys over the years.
Euroley Bridge, the link
between the two areas—
the dry country and the irri-
gated—was just beside the
school land.
The bridge had a notice with
the customary, warning about
bringing fruit into the Irriga-
tion Area, and the road on
the other side went on to
Narrandera. Leaning on the
bridge you could see what we
called the swimming-pool, with
its beach, and pontoon, and the
diving-board and rope from a
tree on the Narrandera side.
On our side, among the trees,
Sailor’s camp, guarded by
a pair of fiercely barking, well-
fed cattle-dogs which never, so
far as I know, bit anyone, but
kept inquisitive small boys at
a. respectful distance. Small
boys could hardly be blamed
for curiosity concerning Sailor’s
decorated with who
knew what mementoes of his
voyages? Walrus teeth?
Pickled mermaids? Who
knew?
As a matter of fact, a few
privileged boys, with a com-
mon interest in- fishing and
dogs, did know, and by the
important air of mystery they
assumed it is probable the
camp contained nothing more
remarkable than most of its
kind. Probably Sailor’s visi-
tors simply sat there for half-
an-hour staring into the fire,
had a drink of tea out of a
billy, exchanged a couple of
sentences about the fishing and
>vent away again.
Although hardly a perman-
ent feature of the school, being
mortal, Sailor seemed as much
a part of the landscape as the
river-gum to which he moored
his flat-bottomed boat, and at
least as interesting as the full-
length portrait in oils of Sir
Samuel McCaughey in court-
dress in the homestead the old
North Irishman had built on
his North Yanco station. We
knew a lot about McCaughey,
but Sailor had the prestige of
an unknown past combined
with the advantage of being
physically present.
A tall, brown, taciturn Scan-
dinavian seaman turned Mur-
rumbidgee fisherman, Sailor
was a striking figure. Tattooed,
with bulging biceps and calves,
barefooted, with an exciting
sheath-knife strapped to a big-
buckled belt enclosing an im-
pressive girth. ‘ He rode his
bike into town, pedalling very
slowly, his hat tilted forward
over his grizzled, wiry hair. He
was supposed to possess pro-
digious physical strength and
a prodigious appetite, and
although he made fierce noises
when occasionally provoked,
he never did anyone the
slightest harm.
I think we were rather proud
of him, and even envied him,
particularly around exam.-
time. Looking back, it seems
a pretty good life. A snug
camp, sell a few fish in town
for groceries and tobacco, and
the pick of the river cooked
on your own fire.
CJailor was a symbol, in fact,
of one side of our life at
school, as Sir Samuel, the
grazier in court-dress who be-
lieved in hard work and plenty
of it, represented another
aspect of the school. Because
we, too, fished in the river,
swam in it, legitimately, at the
“pool,” illegitimately up and
down the river, and we also
had camps, built by ourselves
from anything we could
scrounge.
Understandably enough, oiir
masters came down like a ton
of bricks on anyone caught
swimming out of bounds —
there was always the danger of
drowning. And that, perhaps,
is as good a reason as any for
the move to get swimming-
baths built at the school.
But, admitting that the prac-
tice of unlawful swimming had
to be discouraged, some of my
pleasantest memories of Yanco
are grouped around it. Drift-
ing a long way down-river—
the only worry the long walk
back, nude, to where the
clothes were left, with the
awkward possibility of meet-
ing clothed authority. Sneaking
out of the dormitory on a hot
summer night for a swim at
second, or third, or one of
the other beaches . . .
/"'amps, however, were another
matter. It was the con-
sidered opinion of the then
Head (P. Hindmarsh, a great
headmaster who has left his
mark on the school for many
years to come) that the camps
were good for the boys; a
beneficial break from the neces-
sary discipline of the school
proper.
There were abuses, of course.
Smoking and other enormities
were committed there, and
occasionally a daring band
smuggled out a bottle of beer
from town and jointly drank
it, with great bravado.
There had even—but this, I
think, was after Mr. Hind-
marsh’s time—been a meeting
of the sexes at .one camp. A
very decorous ' meeting, inci-
dentally, half-a-dozen of each,
a drink of tea and much ani-
mated discussion of films and
weather. But it caused a
frightful stir.
The camps encouraged
larceny, of bread from the
tables for toasting, butter, even
cream from the dairy, as well
as building-materials. Now
and then there were threats to
close them down if this or that
offence became too blatant, but
they were not closed-down.
They were mainly a week-
end diversion, and we had to
come in for meals and at night.
Quite a lot of study was done
there, and some of them were
very comfortable.
Groups varied, of course, in
their degree of house-pride and
ingenuity ; and now and again
someone would take the risk
of staying out all night, after
rigging his bed appropriately.
The usual reason was to
catch-up on some particular
piece of work, or to swot be-
fore an exam., jn the case of
juniors, who weren’t allowed
(as were seniors) to stay up
after prep, finished. But I
think a boy often “stayed out”
for deeper reasons. To test
himself, perhaps—a youngish
boy felt very much on his own
in a hut deep in the trees all
night—and, that way, he really
got the feel of the bush around
him. Creeping into his dor-
mitory in the grey light of
morning, looking at his sleepy
ing companions, he felt he had
accomplished something;


although what it was he would
probably find difficult to say.
HPHE routine of the school
went on: classes, prep.,
organised sport, field-work. It
would be easy to exaggerate
the value of what is taught in
some of the agricultural sub-
jects—as Eric Schlunke re-
marked some time back in an
article on the “Man On the
Land” page, it seems more
useful to give full information
on breeds of stock which are
common in Australia than to
scatter information about a
variety of breeds, some of them
rarities here. The many-breed
treatment was the rule when
Eric went to Hurlstone, and,,
he discovered looking through
his son’s schoolwprk, it is still
the rule.
Schlunke documented his
argument with examples in
other agricultural subjects, and
this fits in with my own experi-
ence. Still, even if this sort of
information was,mot very use-
ful, it did no particular harm,
and did give a background of
interest.
And, of course, the responsi-
bility for framing the studies
is not the school’s.
TVjring the week we did a
certain amount of field-
work —a day a week, I think,
in junior classes, split into half-
days—with field-work tapering-
off later. Field-work as a
senior could be interesting;
for juniors it was mostly
routine.
Apart from field-work, every-
one took a turn, for a week at
a time, on various stock-chores: -
cows, pigs, horses. The horses,
except for a few hacks, have
probably gone now, but when
I was there in the late 1930’s
there- were still teams to be
groomed and fed, although the
school also had a tractor. Also,
as part of the horse-chores, a
was driven into
Yanco township every day to
pick up the mail.
Stock-chores were in addi-
tion to ordinary schoolwork —
before and after school. It was
possible to learn a good deal
about, for instance, the running
of the dairy, but I never knew
anyone keen enough to
volunteer for an extra tour of
duty. Now, I notice, there are
fowls at Yanco as well.
Woolclassing and farm-
mechanics were also taught,
and here again there was first-
class instruction spread over a
fairly long period—compared,
for instance, with the amount
of woolclassing a student at the ’
Tech, would cram into a given
period. But this seems only
reasonable. The system was
designed not to turn - out
competent farm - technicians,
but to give some practical and
theoretical teaching in agri-
cultural matters, in addition to
a general education.
Altogether, I think it worked
very well. Boys with marked
practical ability in farming-
skills had a chance to follow
their inclinations, although not,
perhaps, as much opportunity
as some of them would have
liked. At least they kept in
touch, which wouldn't have
been possible if they had gone
to an ordinary school.
'T'here was a nice balance of
city and country boys in
my time (later, I believe, zoning
came in, which was a pity),
and each group contributed
something. A good many of
“You can build-up a good herd on artificial insemination;
but you can make some horrible mistakes."
my contemporaries who came
from the city have gone on
the land —and a percentage of
the country boys have gone
off it.
I’m not quite sure of the
conclusions to be drawn from
that, or whether, in fact —not
having anything like complete
statistics to work on —it would
be safe to draw any. But I
think a few years at the Yanco
type of school could give a boy
a habit of mind and an out-
look on the land and its .prob-
lems which he might not other-
wise have, and which, whether
applied to farming or not,
might well be useful to him as
an individual. And an appreci-
ation of the land, and what
should be done with it, is of
first-rank national importance.
The argument could run
further. There is a link between
patriotism and physical contact
with the soil. The fable of
the giant who sprang .up
refreshed after each £all, and
could only be defeated by being
held aloft, away from the life-
giving soil, strikes deep into
mankind’s memory. It is
something as simple as the pro-
position that a man will fight
for his own bit of land, but
not necessarily for a share in
someone's factory, or a rented
fiat.
Since War II Australia has
been very much an outpost, and
the pressures are not likely to
grow less. It is reasonable, then,
in such circumstances, in. a
country with undeveloped rural
resources and a concentration
of population in the cities, to
think of the ancient relation-
ship between the land and
defence: not simply in terms of
finance and balance-of-trade,
but in terms of land and men ;
of, possibly, survival or extinc-
tion.
The great citizen - soldiers
have been small-farmers. The
Roman peasant-soldier made
Rome and, ultimately, those
concepts of law and Govern-
ment which run like a thread of
rock through centuries of
disorder, and into the frame-
work of our own society. Usury
and slave-labor ruined this
class, and eventually the swollen
empire fell to bits, as modern
empires are now disintegrating.
The English yeoman-archer
broke the power of the armored
horseman in Europe and, in-
directly, at home, concentrating
feudal power in the Crown and
in the King’s Courts, and the
yeoman class, too, was
destroyed by economic forces.
Our headmaster —who was,
as I said, a great one —didn't
exactly talk about these things,
and possibly he wouldn’t agree
with my conclusions. But every
now and again he would stand
in front of the assembled
school, wave his arm past the
lawns, the drive, towards the
brown - and - green chequered
earth the school-farm, the
Irrigation Area, all Australia —
and say, in effect: “There it is.
Look at it. If you want to keep
it you’ll have to think hard
about it. You might have to
fight for it.”
'T'hose were Monday morn-
ings, and behind us was
the double-storied building,
turned into offices and dormi-
tories, w'hich old Sam Mc-
Caughey had built in 1902.
Everywhere McCaughey
went you can see where he
played around with water in a
dry land old irrigation-
ditches, lakes and gardens.
He wasn’t afraid of big
schenies, either he con-
templated building the
Burrinjuck Darn as a private
venture at one stage. And
there, straight ahead, was the
picture of what controlled-
water could do—what had been
a few sheep-runs converted into
thousands of small, prosperous
farms. It was all much more
impressive than other, more
formal, exhortations to patri-
otism or citizenship have been.
And then, of course, there’s
the river, and the interesting
people who sometimes camp by
it. Or long walks through the
bush—miles down-river, or up-
river. Or rounding-up a mob
of horses and having a rodeo—
our star roughrider was thrown
and stunned, and the rest of
us just stood around and talked,
dreadfully worried about how
we would explain his decease
. . . Until the corpse sat up and
upbraided us . . . Odd croppings
of ingenuity, like Joe’s cannon,
which used to go BOOM, from
way out in the bush, in the
middle of church-service.
Yes, taken all round, there’s
a lot to be said for schools like
Yanco—provided they get the
right men to run them.


assured and thoughtful report on his
Grand Tour all over England,
Ireland and the Continent —it reminds
you of the spacious days when Byron,
Wordsworth and Matthew Arnold
similarly meditated on their travels; and
it is in line with the more recent travel-
poems of Louis Mac Niece and some
of the Americans.
Its ease and expansiveness, covering
the territories of Australia and love
with the same air of being thoroughly
at home with the subject-matter, are,
indeed, among the principal attractions
of the book. It is thoroughly cultivated
poetry.
But it is more important, of course,
that Geoffrey Dutton not only writes
about these subjects, but, at his best,
writes excellently about them. Two,
at least, of his European poems, com-
panion-pieces on the Danube and the
Rhone, are quite remarkable. The
Danube is a dark and Germanic river,
“flowing from destruction’s heart”: —
These minutes I am still, your time
is distance,
And from this Austrian soil I
comprehend ,
The vastness of another sure exist-
ence
That can in contemplation also act.
Your banks amuse you, grass and
willows bend,
But your dark centre nothing can
distract.
The Rhone, being French, sings a
lightef, more hopeful song:—
O river lying in the bed of France
Bring forth a child of joy, to prove
disaster
Is no end ...
Turning for contrast —which manages
to be a contrast without a clash; for
Dutton is at'home anywhere in the
world —to one of his Australian poems,
“Drought River” (which might or
might not be the Murray), the lines are
equally striking; in fact, though one
misses the modulation of rhyme, even
more vivid and dramatic: —
Dreaming, remember the river flow-
ing by night,
Desolate the acceptance, soul’s end
The drought country where light
strikes nothing
But ruin as response. Now, past
your window
The good seasons are carried, like
an old man’s body-,
His grey hair is splayed across the
current, -
Snow in a great gleam has pierced
his eyes,
The sun in two lines of light keeps
straight his feet.
One should spare a word, in this
discussion of the merits of the poems,
for one other unusual achievement: a
couple of very good lyrics written in
hospital, a dismal and difficult poetic
country from which few poets have
emerged with distinction. Geoffrey
Dutton escapes from the sickroom
atmosphere by telling the lady who has
brought him a rose to take it away until
he is well again.
But this should be located, really,
in his third poetic province of love-
poetry; where, under Elizabethan
influence, he achieves the clear and
melodious precision of: —
Strong, but with gentleness,
Young, but womanly,
She weights with wantonness
Her guarded beauty.
Her eyes are all earth’s colors,
Flickering in her face,
Whose flesh with bone concurs '
In one perfect embrace.
No other colors' she uses,
Her lips are their own red,
She is kind, she refuses
Me nothing, not even her bed.
But distance now defeats
The image that I see.
Sweetest under all sheets
She lies where I cannot be.
It will be noticed that the poems
thus singled out are all, except
“Drought River,” rhymed and under
strict technical discipline. That is where
Geoffrey Dutton’s strength lies; and
when he departs from it, into off-beat
rhymes and colloquial rhythms and
language, and sometimes into mere
inefficiency, as far too often he does,
he is uncertain and uneven. Good lines
jostle with bad; the total effect, though
robust and intelligent, is patchy.
I do not, of course, agree with A. D.
Hope and his school that all contempor-
ary variations of rhyme and rhythm
are bad; in the variations may lie life;
but I do think that a writer such as
Geoffrey Dutton, whose talent is not
exclusively devotecf to poetry but also
expresses itself- in travel-books and the
novel, should beware of them.
D. S.
Westralian Novel
Whether Though Poppies Grow, by
F. B. Vickers (Australasian Book
Society) should be described as a novel
or as politics is not very easy to
determine. Dealing with a returned-
soldier who pitches a tent on his block
of land somewhere near Perth, W.A.,
thereby distressing the neighboring
bourgeoisie, who try to drive him out,
it is certainly very onesided.
It cannot be a fact, for instance, that
all captains in the A.I.F. were brutal
go-getters, while all privates were the
salt of the earth; but such are the
captain and the private in this
novel. It cannot be a fact that all
captains were cowards who would
deliberately send to his death a noble
Communist private who was fighting
for “a fair go for all”; but that is what
this captain does. It cannot be a fact
that the captains all afterwards became
unscrupulous businessmen who pushed
poor innocent privates off their blocks
of land; but the captain conveniently
does so in this novel.
It does not seem necessary that
adultery, when it is committed by an
ex-captain, should be unpleasant while
the same error, when it takes place
between Socialists, should be tender
and idealistic; but it is so in this novel.
Nor, finally, even if a man has been a
captain in the A.1.F., does it necessarily
follow that his son must bash an
aboriginal boy and leave him for dead
while he steals his father’s car and
drives off to crash to his own death;
but so it is here.
It does not, in fact, seem very likely
that “Though Poppies Grow,” in its
.essential plot, would take place at all,
Why should the neighbors object so
violently to the soldier’s tent when they
know that he proposes instantly to
start building his house? The objec-
tions, anyhow, would not be merely
economic but also aesthetic.
All this heavy loading against the
captain does-obviously suggest that the
novel is essentially propagandist. So
does the author’s refusal to discuss the
full implications of the Peace Commit-
tee on which his liberal-minded citizens
so innocently serve; so does his repeated
and explicit refusal ever to discuss the
Soviet in relation to Communism —a
subject that comes up a lot because
everybody who helps the soldier is
suspected off being at least a “fellow-
traveller.”
Yet the novel presents,.in the idealist
Dan, who finds both Communism and
capitalism at fault, a tolerably balanced
point of view; and if it seems biased
in its general application, it may still
be read as a fairly plausible and lively
novel in the particular circumstances
laid down for it. The row over the
tent —or something like it —could
-happen; the “naming” of innocent (as
well as not-so-innocent) citizens as
Communists has happened, and is as
ugly a thing as Vickers shows it to be;
the brutal and cowardly captain, as
one isolated individual, could
undoubtedly exist; the ruthless, black-
marketeering go-getter he turns into is
only too common; his hard-shelled
mistress, her weakling husband and all
the other characters are convincingly
portrayed; and the simple soldier who
is the hero —the salt of the Australian
earth, who says “mate” every ten
seconds —is, if overdrawn to the point
of caricature, at any rate amusing and
likeable.
And Vickers certainly knows how to
make things happen in a novel. If the
book gets a bit dull in the middle when
everybody is going to meetings and
talking politics, the events at the climax
—with a fight between the soldier and


Magazine
Subscriptions...
Our Subscriptions Department is at your service and is equipped
to enter any subscriptions on your behalf. Both local and overseas
magazines are on our list, and we would be pleased to forward
details of any publication you may wish to receive.
A subscription makes a wonderful gift, and if arranged this month
the magazines will start to arrive about Christmas time. We suggest
that this is a clever way to minimise your Christmas shopping, and
will be pleased to forward a detailed list and any other information
required.
Either telephone or write to our Subscriptions Department, who will
be delighted to assist you.
WE LOOK FORWARD TO
BEING OF SERVICE TO YOU
For all your requirements — books, magazine subscriptions, long-playing
gramophone records — consult : —
GRAHAME BOOK COMPANY PTY., LTD.,
39-49 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY - - BW 2261
the captain; and the captain’s mistress
running round confessing her adultery;
and the aboriginal boy bashed; and
the captain’s son driving off to be
killed—are, if not exactly moving
(because you feel the whole thing has
been contrived so much to do the
captain down) undoubtedly very
eventful.
Reviewed Briefly
The Amiable Prussian: Charles
Drage (Blond). A biography of
Walther Stennes, a Prussian infantry-
officer who fought in War I and then,
being allergic to Hitler and Nazism,
went to China in the 1930’s as a
mercenary-soldier under Chiang Kai-
shek—an interesting career, though the
style is a bit hero-worshipping.
* * * *
Your New Home Garden: Ernest E.
Lord (Lothian). Author of the monu-
mental “Shrubs and Trees for Aus-
tralian Gardens,” Ernest Lord here
offers a smaller and much cheaper
volume chiefly intended for young
people just starting a garden: with
chapters on the lawn; planning the
garden; rockeries; native shrubs; shrubs
for street frontages and hedges; the
flower-garden and the vegetable-garden.
* * * *
The Fastest Man Alive: Lieut.-Col.
Frank K. Everest, as told to John
Guenther (Cassell). Colonel Everest, in
the rocket-powered Bell X-2, made
thirteen flights at previously unattained
heights and speeds, “discovering the
effects of the heat-barrier at supersonic
speeds.” His fastest was 1900 miles per
nour, close on three times the speed of
sound. During the war he was flying
bombers over Italy and subsequently
against the Japanese from China, where
he was betrayed by the Chinese and
spent some nightmare months in prison.
It is a tremendous story; told crisply
and with admirable restraint.
* * * *
Dunbar's Cove: Borden Deal
(Hutchinson). This novel, by a young
man from the Deep South who has
studied creative writing at Alabama
University, tells in profuse detail what
happens to an autocratic landowner
who rejects the very reasonable terms
of the Tennessee Valley Authority for
resuming his land as part of a dam-
floor, his chief reason being that he
wants to do like his forefathers and
hand the land down to “the children
of his loins.” Complications are made
by his daughter falling for a T.V.A.
man, his chosen son incautiously
wandering into a charge of T.V.A.
high-explosive, and another son becom-
ing a T.V.A. employee. After the old
bloke fails to get his neighbors to start
a shootin’ war against the invader the
family breaks-up and he has to go.
One doesn’t feel particularly sorry for
him. Somewhere under this mound of
redundancies, repetitions, false earthi-
ness and affected pseudo-Biblical writ-
ing a good short novel lies buried.
* * * *
Bull and Brass: John Foley (Cassell).
This account of an Army officer’s tour-
of-duty in the War Office is written with
• f ’• • . rec °upts
are obviomlv a rt l
cfnnni hHn 2 \
SKi militarily-
Directnmtp of" Pnhiv d
ood PR°“b a for
*u~ R rit ; c u a rm „ J
the British Army.
* * * *
Mary Roberts Rinehart’s Crime
Book: Cassell. This collection of three
brilliant mystery-stories leaves no
doubt why the author, almost unknown
today, held an international reputation
a generation ago. “The Door” is a full-
length novel told by an elderly, erudite
spinster. “The Confession” is a long
short-story, its terror veiled by an
atmosphere of lace handkerchiefs and
crab-apple jelly in an American
country-home of the old style. “The
Red Lam P.-” anolh " n ? ve1 ' ‘ ells ° f , a “
e “ un ;! on >P to spiritualism, fraudulent
and otherwise-
«
almost entirely of dialogue and leads
to n 0 conclusion (except, perhaps, that
life °n Bnd is better for both body
and soul than life in the city) . For
that, it is worth reading because of the
**«■ ° f 'TX*
exile with her mother and grandmother
(who never forgets that sh? is a Polish
princess) in one room in a squalid
boarding-house in Budapest during
Hitler’s war. Natalie is well sketched
and the subsidiary characters are
interesting.


QUEENSLAND! HaTumiNIUMI
INVEST IN
QUEENSLAND
Bauxite at Weipa and uranium at Mary Kathleen
foreshadow a new era of economic good fortune for
Australia. There can be no doubt that enterprises
such as these will become a new and vital source of
wealth and strength to the nation. But, looming large
in the future promised by these undertakings is the
ever-growing need for electric power expansion. Decide
now to share in this urgent task invest all you can
in the State Electricity Loan!
COMMISSION
nr
#l*
GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
£5/7/6% is Australia’s highest Government-guaranteed interest
rate.
Short, medium or long term —5, 10 or 20 years.
Interest paid half-yearly FREE OF EXCHANGE.
You may deposit 1 0% balance in 3 equal instalments by
31/12158.
Securities will be listed on the Stock Exchange and are
negotiable.
APPLY NOW THROUGH
• The Commonwealth
Trading Bank
• Australia and New
Zealand Bank Ltd.
Bank of New South
Wales
The Commercial Banking
Co. of Sydney Ltd.
Any Stockbroker, or direct to the State Electricity Com-
mission of Queensland, 447 Gregory Terrace, Brisbane.
Underwritten by
Charles A. Ord & Minnett
