

Link up with real strength
The World's Largest Chain oi Retail Merchandisers
Wflllons-Seors limited
Australia
Seors. Roebuck and Co.
U.S.A.
*
r H
THE COMPANY YOU ARE INVESTING IN is
wholly owned by Waltons-Sears Limited, the
successful retail organisation of 47 stores in the
three eastern States of Australia and operating a
nation-wide mail order business.
Sears, Roebuck, the world's largest retail mer-
chandiser, has invested more than 4,250,000
dollars in Waltons-Sears limited.
SHOULD YOU NEED CASH provision is made in
the Prospectus for repayment before maturity.
INVEST NOW AND CAIN
1. Undoubted security for your
money.
2. More income from your money.
3. An independent guarantee by a
great Company.
APPLY FOR PROSPECTUS
AND INVEST NOW
Ilie National Hank of Australasia Ltd.
Bank of New South Vialex
Commonwealth' Trading Bank of Australia
Any store or office of altons-Sears Limited, and
■n particular Park ami George Streets, Sydney,
M A <>273
Or any member of a recognised Stock Exchange
in Australia.
yielding per annum
on a term of 6 years
1
1
o
This is no! an abridged Prospectus and does
not constitute an invitation to subscribe to this
issue.
CREDIT CORPORATIO
(Incorporated in Canberra, AC
authorised capita) £5,000,000
of which £2,000,000 has already been
subscribed by Waltons-Sears Limited
001 IE
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Underwriter: J. B. WERE & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange, Melbourne)
Trustee: Burns Philp Trust Company Limited
UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEED BY WALTONS-SEARS LIMITED
The Bulletin
Uisnwasiiing —ana tiorvT—page jz
Wednesday, July 30, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered In Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—Action,
text book, biography, histoTy, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
THE REAL OUTBACK
There are three good reasons for
giving a favorable notice (which
should have been done weeks ago) to
Tom Quilty’s The Drover’s Cook, pub-
lished for the author by F. H. Johnston
Publishing Co., Sydney.
The first is that all the proceeds go
to the Australian Inland Mission; the
second is that it is accompanied by a
letter from Padre Fred McKay, whom
the present reviewer last saw ten-
thousand miles from anywhere, among
the gibbers and the goats, building with
his own hands the new hospital at
Birdsville after the old one had been
burned down; and the third is the
verses themselves.
Here, in part, is the padre’s letter:—
Tom Quilty would be one of the
best-known names north of Capri-
corn from the Kimberleys to the
Peninsula. Indigenous to the Kimber-
leys and now in his seventies, Tom
Quilty is the son of pioneering
parents who opened-up country in
the Gulf in 1883. He is the personi-
fication of an era that is passing ail
too quickly, that of the individual
cattle-king, for the Quiltys hold
more than five-million acres, and
before he sold Bradshaw Station
this was the largest tract of country
held by an individual in Australia.
He would have few equals in his
knowledge of Inland cattle-raising
and horsemanship. In 1953 after
winning the camp-draft event at
Hall’s Creek race-meeting he removed
his pony “Bemi’s” bridle and gave
a superb demonstration of drafting
on a horse without a bridle.
As to his motives in publishing
this collection, I quote from his own
letter to a colleague: “I am having a
book of poems published solely for
the A.I.M. in this area —what I have
decided on is this, any person pre-
pared to donate one guinea to the
A.I.M. to give that person a book
of the poems. I ordered 1000 be-
cause the rate of charge was much
lower than on 500. If we get rid
of the lot it will be something for
the A.l.M.—Cheerio, old Stallion,
mine’s a rum.”
You will be aware that the now-
shrinking area which remains remote
from “entertainment” radio and
television is the last stronghold of
folklore and home-created entertain-
ment. Whatever the aesthetic literary
critic may say, the verse contained
in this volume concerning events,
people and local legend, has been
passed with relish by word of mouth
in homesteads and cattle-camps
across this continent.
As for the verses themselves, it must
be admitted that one must draw breath
for a moment before falling headlong
into praise. Quilty has a talent which
in many respects rivals that of “The
Bulletin’s” late-lamented friend, old
“Bellerive.” He says himself, and well
he might, that he expects to get roasted
by the critics.
But then, there’s also a touch of
“Banjo” Paterson about him. He is
genuine. His dingoes, crows, cooks and
other vermin are straight from the
soil; or at any rate straight from the
gibbers. Away up there, where the
Flying Doctor, the radio-transceiver
and the Landrover don’t really make it
quite as civilised as Sydney, the ballad
is still a living force.
Like Si Dunn, “the poet of the Birds-
ville Track,” balladists such as Tom
Quilty are still composing a genuine
folklore. The locals—over thousands
of hot square-miles—will like his verses
for their local references and their
authenticity; and the severest connois-
seur of balladry must recognise that
when Quilty really hits the nail on the
head, as in “Tay Q 2,” you could put
the piece straight into such anthologies
as “Australian Bush Ballads” or “Old
Bush Songs.”
“Tay Q 2,” says Quilty in a foot-
note, “refers to a well-known and
popular Northern pastoralist, who now
lives in retirement in Sydney. His
brand, T Q 2, was as well known as
himself, but he always pronounced it
‘Tay Q 2,’ and it sounded as if he was
saying ‘Take you too’ ”; and a very
happy time of it Quilty has with his
outback yarns and his puns:—
I met him first in the sultry Gulf
Where the tea-tree scrub and wattle
grew,
He was riding a clean-bred chestnut
hack
And the brand was T Q 2.
All next day on the cattle-camp
The dust from his whiskers blew
When he’d yell, “Here’s one and
there is one,
They all belong to the Tay Q 2.”
Till only a brindle Mick was left,
And the froth from his nostrils flew,
When he rushed at him and gave a
yell,
“By cripes, I’ll Tay Q 2! ”
You can get copies of the book from
Padre McKay, at the A.1.M., G.P.O.
Box 100, Sydney, “enclosing a mini-
mum donation of one-guinea per copy
to the A.1.M.”
Mining-town Novel
Set in a coastal mining-town in
N. S. Wales, The Long Prospect, by
Elizabeth Harrower (Cassell), is an
intense, close-up study of a twelve-
year-old girl’s longing to love and be
loved.
The child of a broken home, she is
cared for by her grandmother, a vital,
flashy, brittle and coarse-grained
woman. We see the child set against
society and a family which nourishes
her physically and leaves her famished
emotionally. When at last she finds
someone to whom her idealism can
respond she is destroyed by the crude-
ness and vulgarity of those around her.
Miss Harrower excels in pointing the
detail which brings the Australian
middle-class setting to life —the dusty
bamboos in the ragged garden, the bus
at the corner “oversleeping its time-
table.” Similarly she is watchful of
mannerism and attitude in her charac-
ters, but she probes and analyses too
much. Her people (with the exception
of the young girl) are seldom allowed
to speak for themselves, and it is hard
to imagine them as having any life of
their own once they are out of sight.
In her first novel, “Down in the
City,” Elizabeth Harrower gave the
promise of a promise. In “The Long
Prospect” she establishes her worth,
but before she really fulfils her talent
there must be a subtler fusion between
her own intuitive understanding and
her academic knowledge of psychology.
Jackeroo and Carpenter
Two biographical monographs about
two Australian educationists have
arrived together: George William
Rusden and National Education in
Australia, 1849-1862, by A. G. Austin
(Melbourne University Press), and
David Stewart and the WJE.A., by
E. M. Higgins (W.E.A.).
Rusden and Stewart were both
amateurs of education. Rusden was the
jackeroo-station-manager son of an
English clergyman who had come out
to Maitland in, the Hunter Valley;
Stewart was a Scots carpenter who
emigrated from Leith to New Zealand,
and then Australia, in search of regular
work, arriving in Sydney in 1910.
Station-managing at 22, Rusden
gained experience at Gundagai, and,
moving from the Murrumbidgee to the
Lachlan to the Goulbum district, might
have been in the way of becoming a
successful squatter like his two
brothers, when, at 30, hidden motives
which seem to have taken even his
biographer by surprise, pushed him to
accept a field-agency under the newly
formed National Board of Education
in 1849.
Austin follows him all the way on
(<Continued on page 58)


m
m.
TEAMWORK
assures TOP PRICES
The Australia-wide organisation of Elder,
Smith & Co. Limited is complete and efficient.
Every detail in the handling of stock for both
Buyer and Seller is expertly attended to by
our highly trained technical staff.
I
£Mt* COMPLETE SERVICE
TO THE MAN ON THE LAND
180 Branches give nation-wide service
covering Wool, Merchandise, Shipping, Travel,
Chartering, Insurance, Skin and Hides,
Land and Livestock, Rural Banking.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED
Adelaide, Perth, Albany, Melbourne, Geelong, Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, London
- with which are amalgamated
COMMONWEALTH WOOL & PRODUCE CO. LIMITED . SYDNEY
NENCO LIMITED NEWCASTLE
MOREHEADS LIMITED .... BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 30, 1958
VoL 79—No. 4094
The National Australian Newspap-er
‘‘Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
MEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; 'Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbohrne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Sou ih Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
SLOGAN HYPNOTISM
THE tremendous disadvantages at
which Western leaders work by
comparison with those jinder which
the Kremlin tyrants operate has been
well illustrated by the events of the
past fortnight.
Khrushchev and his band of robber-
barons can make their plans in secret
and perfect them before they launch
them. If they wish to murder anybody
they murder him by the simple method
of accusing him of treachery or treason
and shooting him out of hand. If any-
body tells them that is wrong and the
critic happens to be within their reach
they shoot him. too. If anybody is
caught giving away their secrets they
execrate him to the limit and immolate
him. Their press writes when and how
the Kremlin likes.
If. during an operation abroad, some
victim, or someone sympathising with
a victim, pipes-up to attack Kremlin
policy the Russians hear nothing of it.
These are the facts within Russia
itself. But. outside Russia. Khrush-
chev always has his advantages as well.
Any leader with whom he is dealing
must listen to a barrage of advice from
a horde of editors, half of them
parlor-pinks, and all of them at least
to some degree obviously ignorant of
what is going on behind the Scenes. No
Western leader can deal with even the
most dangerous situation vital to the
security and welfare of the people he
governs and represents without being
subjected to a chorus of abuse because
he doesn’t immediately do what the
enemies of the country ask him to do
without even waiting to study the
request.
Then, of course, there are the
Socialist politicians who would rather
any day believe or trust /a Molotov
than a Bench of Australian judges or
an Australian Prime Minister, and there
is a regimented public educated in
State schools against a background of
Socialism.
T IKE the curious machine which Pro-
fessor Messell imported recently to
do his calculating and which he appro-
priately named Silliac, they react to
the stimuli of routines or slogans in-
serted into their works. The word'
“peace,” especially when it is uttered
by some ruffian with thousands of
murders to his credit, activates them
strangely. The word “nationalism”
paralyses their ability to be indignant..
The word “colonialism” or “imperial-
ism” rouses them to unthinking fury.
It is. of course, part of the creed of .
the conventional Western editor and
politician of the Evatt type that the
world's salvation has been copyrighted
by the United Nations and that only by
obeying the whims of Dr. Bunche and
Mr. Hammsarkjold can civilisation be
saved. But Comrade Khrushchev in
Moscow, who is head of a regime which
has disrupted the peace of the world
for 40 years, made Hitler’s attack on
Europe possible and sanctioned mil-
lions of murders and assassinations and
a thousand flagrant breaches of treaty
and good faith, merely has to ask for
a peace-conference, and anybody who
hesitates to accede is a dastard and a
fool or worse.
He is expected at once to enter into
pourparlers which he knows from the
beginning have an intention of trickery
behind them, since no negotiation
sought by Moscow has ever proved to
be anything but destructive in intention
towards the second party.
THERE is no doubt as to the origin
of the events in the Middle East or
as to their nature. Bit by bit the peace-
ful commercial relationships of the
West with Arab countries, backed by
defence alliances rendered necessary by
Russian plans of conquest, are being
destroyed by a long-standing plan
which the Kremlin has cherished as
part of the strategy of world-revolution.
Despite all its current demands for
policies of “non-alignment” and
“neutralism.” in which it is echoed by
Nasser, it is beyond doubt that in the
proposed carving-up of the / world in
1940 by Stalin. Hitler. Tojo and
Mussolini. Moscow sought for the right
to move into Persia and down to the
coast of the Indian Ocean, and only
failed to reach an agreement (and
therefore brought about Hitler’s attack
on the U.S.S.R.) by. being greedy and
demanding also Bulgaria. Yugoslavia
and Hungary as part of its empire, or
sphere of influence.
The moves in the Middle East over
the past two years have been Moscow-
planned. and Nasser is merely a
stooge.
The “Communist Review.” the
policy-journal of the Australian Com-
munist Party, which expounds the
party line as it is wound oft' the drum
in Moscow, had. as far back as January,
two articles on “The Arab National
Struggle” by one of_its employees,
Paul Mortier; which paint the slithery
chicanery of Khrushchev and his fol-
lowers quite clearly, and make it plain
how the plot now working-out was
hatched.
The writer admits that the move-
ments in the Arab zone are movements
by “officers” acting as a minority and
by force, and who have made the Com-
munist party illegal. But he adds that
because this violent minority has acted
against the bourgeoisie, “while the
Communist parties are still illegal they
support the Nasser regime;” Knowing
that “the bourgeois democratic revolu-
tion is far from complete,” they
apparently hope, by supporting Nasser
according to the Leninist method—“as
the rope supports- the hanged man” —
to keep close enough to him to strangle
him at the opportune moment.
'THEY claim that during the Suez
A crisis the popular resistance was
“often inspired and led by Communists,
and'they were much more active and
effective than the official liberation
movement.” With inside knowledge, the
Australian Communist Party declares
that Nasser is “spearheading the birth
of the new Arab nations,” that Iraq,
Lebanon and Jordan are the “three
main hopes of imperialism.” and that
the Communist party behind the scenes
as the supporters of Nasser are the
activating forces for the thwarting
of Western ambitions. The article
asserted: —
The Communist party of Iraq is
illegal and subjected to vicious persecu-
tion; but it stands proudly at the head
. of a growing national independence
movement. Influenced by the move-
ments in Egypt and Syria and the rest
of the Arab world, Iraq has frequently
disappointed its imperialist overlords.
A body of internationalists hooting for
nationalism is a strange spectacle!
The battle for the “liberation” of
Lebanon is foreshadowed as part of
puppet Nasser’s battle against “im-
perialism” and in the interests of
“nationalism,” a sacred cow to be fed
with a jumble of races and languages
so various and divergent as to make
a mockery of the word.
In the face of these facts, in the face
of the deliberate admissions of the
purposes of Communism behind Nasser,
there is a cynical dishonesty in the
utterances of Khrushchev about
“aggression” and colonialism.
It would have been wrong for the
Western leaders to refuse to meet
Khrushchev, but it would have been
wrong not to'insist on .meeting him on
their own and the world’s ground,
which is the United Nations, and which
is the ground which his own delegates
.held to be the only one on which to
hold such discussions at the time, of the
Suez affair.


"You like lovely dirty, feelthy postcard, yes?”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Returned Empty
The pilgrimage of Mr. Cahill, and
retinue, to the haunts of capitalism and
imperialism in the United States, seems
to have ended unfortunately. The
Macquarie-street missionary went pff on
his expensive wander lull of high hope
that the Americans, whose world policies
his Federal leader and juntas so much
condemn, would welcome him with open
arms and pour shekels into his overcoat-
pockets.
Before he went he laid the ground
with public opinion for the institution
of a glittering Consulate-General in New
York, and in which no doubt the most
important feature of the -furniture was
to be a live Labor idol named Cahill.
However; save for a portfolio of pic-
tures of himself with film-stars, and the
firm conviction that Australian girls are
more lovely than the American variety,
he seems to have brought little back
from the United States except a touchy
temper and a slightly widened vocabu-
lary of abuse for his critics. (“In the
sickening pose of political sages, the
Leaders of the Opposition have both
jumped in with indelicate haste to sug-
gest that my mission to America was
not a success.”) It appears that “in due
course they will be confounded. 1 can
give that assurance. The seed has been
sown and the reaping, naturally, will
come later.”
He poured scorn on Mr. Morton’s
suggestion that the American capitalists
whom Labor abuses and derides and who
stand for everything opposite to the
essentials of the A.L.P. programme,
national and international, should be
“frightened of too much Socialism'’ in
New South Wales.
He is deeply injured that “when Messrs.
Nicklin and Bolte and Sir Thomas Play-
ford go overseas, they are applauded as
ambassadors of super-vision and splendid
ideals.”
It is shocking that the leader of a
party which has just recently readmitted
that idealist Mr. Joe Arthur to member-
ship should be denied a chorus of praise,
especially when he has brought back
the great thought about the need for the
Consulate-General.
It is singular (or perhaps not) that Mr.
Bolte didn't have to defend himself when
he returned from America, even though
the need for a Victorian Consul-General
wasn't apparent to him, and he does not
seem to have noticed the U.S. girls.
It is slso a' coincidence unhappy
for Cahill that at the very moment when
he is being so unjustly reviled by envious
opponents who, he says, “ape frightened
of what will happen to them at the next
elections,’! Playtord has received an
urgent call to hurry to America to meet
the desire of Standard Oil to establish
a large refinery in S.A. Even the leader
of the S.A. Labor Opposition has moved to
facilitate the S.A. Premier’s departure on
this mission to induct into the South Aus-
tralian economy an organisation which
Labor has abused without intermission
since the Year One.
It is a sad fact that both Victoria and
S.A., without bituminous coal or the long
stat;t in industry, and in population,
which N.S.W. enjoys, are racing ahead
of the Mother State at a great pace.
Both, on a percentage basis, have
beaten N.S.W. hollow in population-
increase over the past decade, Victoria in
actual numbers. Both are attracting
investment of capital with compara-
tive ease. But the reason can’t be Mr.
Cahill, because Mr. Cahill says so.
Of course it couldn't have anything
to do, either, with the fact that,N.S.W.
industry and commerce' are pinned down
by the neck with every- form of estate,
land, transport and other tax or impost
which the State Government can devise.
It cannot be connected with the fact that
N.S.W. transport is inefficient and dear,
like land ; that, despite the proposed in-
creases in Victoria, industrial power will
continue to be miles cheaper in Victoria
and S.A. than in N.S.W.
It seems difficult for Mr. Cahill to
believe that the industrialists of
New York would have any objec-
tion to coming to a State where the
party of the Government in power runs
a united front at union elections with the
Communist party, and where compulsory
unionism is a day-to-day threat, where
one of the newest inducements to outside
investors is a firm promise of equal pay
for the sexes, and where the 40-hour week
in terms of production is about a 30-hour
week in many industries ; also where the
month without some sort of holiday for
the sake of loaf is a rarity.
These little matters are scarcely likely
to be deterrents to overseas capital with
a nice, clean Government like the Cahill
Administration in power, ever ready to
encourage, while reviling in terms usually
reserved for criminals, American policy
and capitalists.
Ultimatum
Lily “Ek Oum”J
The text of Khrushchev’s demand for a
summit conference was not published in
adequate detail in Australia. It declared
that the world was “on the brink of
military catastrophe” because of the
aggression of the United States and the
United Kingdom “against Iraq and other
States of the Arab East who are defend-
ing their independence”; producing a
situation in which “the slightest careless
step may bring irreparable consequences.”
It accused both the U.S. and the U.K.
of “unprovoked aggression,” carried out
by “bypassing the United Nations”....
which “is actually pressed back by the
bayonets of American and British troops
striking a heavy blow at inter-
national organisation.”
All this was double-dyed nonsense.
Firstly, the Security Council, by a nine-
to-one majority, had made it clear that
it saw nothing inconsistent with U.N.
principles in the action taken at the
request of Lebanon and Jordan. Secondly,
Article 51. of the U.N. Charter makes it
clear that “nothing in the present Charter
shall impair the inherent right of indi ;
vidual or collective self-defence if an
armed attack occurs against a member
of the U.N., until the Security Council
has taken measures”.... provided the
measures of self-defence taken by mem-
bers. ... . “shall be immediately reported to
the Security Council.”
Khrushchev’s document can be divided
into two parts. The first is a long pre-
amble full of insulting propaganda which
he wishes to get to the general public
of the countries addressed, meant to con-
vey the impression that he is master of
the world and that the West must take
lying down and not resent any abuse or
slander he cares to throw directly at its
leaders.
The second part is specifically an ulti-
matum :
You realise perfectly well that history
lias given us little time to avert war, to
prevent the extermination of many millions
of people, to prevent the destruction of
colossal material and cultural values ....
In conclusion, I would like to emphasise
in particular that upon the Government
which you head, Mr. Prime Minister, and
upon the U.S. President now depends the
settlement of 'the question of how the
conflict that has broken out in the area
of the Seur ami Middle East is settled —
by war or peace.' The Soviet tiovernnient
expects that the tiovernnient of tireat
Britain will correctly understand this
appeal of the Soviet tiovernnient; that it
will meet with a positive response and the
preparedness of tireat Britain resolutely
to turn tiie wheel of events from tile patii
of war to the path of peace.
It is no wonder that the Western
Powers were slow and careful in reacting.
The Notes were so worded as to assure
that any immediate agreement by the
U.S. and the U.K. would have been
hailed everywhere as a complete sur-
render to a threat of brutal force. Even
Hitler-in his heyday was never so forth-
right in his bullying.
The right course has been taken in
sending the matter to the Security
Council.
Whether this move succeeds depends
on whether or not Khrushchev actually
wants war, has prepared for war.and is
looking for a pretext which he thinks
will serve him as an excuse to attack
the West.
Khrushchev’s good faith is something
his own mother couldn't trust on his
record.
- The next few days will • tell whether
Mr. Menzies is right in thinking his
actions “a piece of unscrupulous bluff
in the cold war.” At any rate, whatever
happens at the conference and however
Baghdad Pact members view the meet-
ing, Khrushchev has already achieved
one of his main objectives by assuming
leadership in Middle East discussions.
"Our News-commentary
Tonight"
During the Middle East crisis the Austra-
lian Broadcasting Commission has excelled
itself in its foreign-affairs commentaries.
The cream of the week's performances
came from the author of what was
described officially by the A.B.C. “as our
news-commentary tonight,” on July 23 :
a Canberra university-lecturer, who


NOTICE TO W.A. READERS
W.A. postal-subscribers’ copies of THE
HD1/LETIN are now being- AIK-
FREIGHTED to Perth every Tuesday (<lay
of printing), then dispatched to addresses
by ordinary mail through Perth P.O. every
Wednesday morning (Sydney publishing-
day).
This service should result in Perth sub-
scribers receiving THE Bl’LLETIX on
Wednesday afternoons, whilst subscribers
outside Perth will experience only the extra
delay, normal foT mails dispatched from
Perth to their districts.
Air-freight cost per copy is only 8d.,
compared with 2/2J when sent _ordinary
airmail. As the cost of THE BULLETIN
is lid. per issue (on a. one-.Vear-subscrip-
tion basis), an air-freight copy will cost
only 1/1.
A SUBSCRIPTION - FORM IS PUB-
LISHED IN THIS AND EVERY ISSUE.
A Perth subscriber, already taking advan-
tage of this service, writes: “An excel-
lent investment.”
commented on Nasser’s speech the night
before commemorating the sixth
anniversary of the Egyptian revolution.
This, the speaker said, was expected
to be the occasion for a “forthright
declaration of policy . . . which could
well have been virulently anti-Western.”
He conitnued:
It was all the more surprising then to
find that Nasser’s speech was markedly
guarded in tone. He merely stated the
fact that he would' welcome a summit con-
ference, adding, mildly enough, that the
recent rivalries in the Hid die East had
brought, the wdrld to the brink of a third
world war. This seems merely cautious
platitude. But I think this guarded tone
is in itself an indication of Nasser’s real
position .... He is therefore making
clear that he is anxious to avoid even the
appearance of taking sides in the' conflict
of the two great Bower blots.
Nothing was said about Nasser’s regular
abuse of British and American “imperial-
ism,” of the fact that his radio was urging
Jordanese to slaughter their king, or of
his statement the day before in Damascus
after his arrival from Moscow, in which
he threatened the Western nations with
the power of Khrushchev’s arm. Nasser,
to the A.B.C.’s analyst, is merely another
Nehru —he thinks “the analogy [with
India] is not altogether misleading, since
Nehru is second only in popularity to
Nasser in the Arab States.” But
Nasser said that Egypt was under general
mobilisation and prophesied that “flags
of victory would fly over every Arab
city from Algeria eastward”; that “there
will remain no imperialists in the *Arab
world however they try to disguise them-
selves. The Arabs will destroy them all.”
And he abused Hussein of Jordan
virulently.
Surely somebody at the A.B.C. has a
clue or two about what is going on in
the world!
Financing Fuel and Power
Premier Bolte having escaped for a
winter holiday to the warmer climate of
Queensland in nice time, sharp increases
in electricity- and gas-charges were:
announced in Victoria last week and met
with- the most hostile reception in a
generation.
The average family will now pay 4s.'
a month more for the usual electric
services, 4s. a month more for electric
hot-water and about ss. 6d. a month more
for gas.
The protests which have followed have
been heightened by the certainty that
fares on public transport must rise this
year. These can be defended, since the
users of public transport have for some
years been riding at less than cost and
partly at the expense of those providing
their own transport.
With regard to electricity, W. H. Con-
nolly, chairman of the S.E.C., claims that
loan-money forthcoming isn’t enough to
finance essential expansion, and that
unless profits —excess profits is signi-
fied, of course —are used to finance expan-
sion ,power-restrictions may be necessary
again.
How essential this expansion is has not
been explained. The S.E.C. had a record
of great spending until the credit-squeeze
of 1951-52, and it is already making
profits of £3 million, as well as connect-
ing 35,000 every year.
The Gas and Fuel Corporation, whose
charges have increased in proportion to
the decrease jn its services to con-
sumers since it passed, unfortunately, from
private to public ownership, now finds it
necessary to build a costly new office-
block on St. Kilda Road. The news of
this also was timed nicely: a week or so
before the secondary news that the con-
sumers must pay more to finance it.
When the higher fuel and power
charges were announced Bolte was holi-
daying at Mooloolaba, 70 miles north
of Brisbane, and allegedly a mile from
the nearest telephone; Reid, Minister
for Electrical Undertakings, was ill;
Sir Arthur Warner, the Leader of the
Council, was holidaying in a liner,
and Rylah, Acting Premier, had vanished
into the country mists in a car.
According to financially well-informed
sources in Spring Street, the Government
intends to make all of its increased
charges known before Christmas. ThiSi
will enable Bolte to claim at the next
election, as he did a few weeks ago at the v
last, that he has given the State two years
of stability.
The Victorian Government appears to
give way too much to departments and
public utilities.
Wise Treasurers place themselves in the
power of only one Government depart-
ment, the Treasury ; Bolte appears to be
in thrall to all Government departments
except the Treasury.
Travellers" Samples
It is not clear exactly what sort of recep-
tion N.S.W. Premier Cahill anticipated
on arriving back from his four months’
tour of America, but he was obviously
disappointed at some aspects of the one
he did receive.
Joe is getting hot under the collar over
nothing. What he forgets is that return-
ing travellers seldom arouse in stay-at-
home acquaintances the enthusiastic
response they expect. Full of their
experiences and chock-a-block with
reminiscences, they find that no one
feally wants to listen to them. They have
only to produce a photograph-album to
empty a room, while an invitation to
come round and have a look at their
color-slides or a movie-camera record
of their tour brings an amazing crop of
previous engagements.
The only things that stay-at-homes
really welcome from returning world-
travellers are gifts. And gifts are just
what Joe admits he didn’t bring. As to
the other Premiers he mentioned so
enviously—Playford and Bolte both
managed to bring home gifts of some
kind ; Nicklin hasn't been abroad since
he became Premier.
Of course the Premiers of South Aus-
tralia and Victoria had an advantage
over Cahill, in that they got in ahead of
him. But he can hardly blame Morton
and Hughes for that. Incidentally, why
did Playford rush off to America on a
hush-hush mission as soon as Cahill got
back? Is it that Joe missed something
after all, and Tom has go'ne over to pick
it up?
South of the Molongio
[From Canberra]
For several years after the end of World
War If the acute class-consciousness
which characterised pre-war Canberra
was unheard of in the welter of
, phenomenal growth which doubled the
city’s population to 38,000 within 10
years. i. ,
But lately there have been quiet signs
of a return to the old idea that living
in the southern suburbs which roll gently
up under Red Hill bestows greater
prestige than residence in suburbs north
of the Molongio River.
In the early days of Canberra, public
servants in the higher salary-bracket
tended to congregate on the south side,
while their less-remunerated colleagues
went north. Living in southern Can-
berra was the mark of success in the
department.
Happily that notion went out of
fashion as post-war buildings on the
north side matched in design and sub-
stance any to be seen in the south and
as thousands of migrants poured in to
change radically the habits of life in
the city.
Now the Government has chosen the
south side to build 18 new houses for
the Chiefs- of-Staff of the three defence
services and their deputies and the per-
manent heads of the defence depart-
ments, all of whom will move from Mel-
bourne (with their departments) within
the next two years.
Although the houses will be built as
part of the normal Government housing-
programme, they will be larger Than
standard houses because the Govern-
ment expects the defence-chiefs to do
some official entertaining in their homes.
The rents will be correspondingly higher.
As these will be the first houses
specially erected for heads of Common-
wealth departments, leaders of civic
thought are beginning to ask why these
official residences should not be scattered
throughout the city, thus eliminating
for ever the old “south-of-the-river”
complex.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Tr made my mouth water! Mel-
bourne's evening daily announced
across three columns that: “2500 Guests
Will Attend Lord Mayor's Ball.” The
delectable details followed: there were
the “chefs —*18 in all—who prepared 35
turkeys, 250 chickens, 30 hams, 100 cray-
fish, and 5001 b. of beef for the three-
course supper. Champagne would also
be served.” If one may make the un-
warranted assumption that the 18 chefs
and the service staff went supperless, a
v.i.p.’s fair share of the three-course menu
would be 1 / 70th turkey, l / 10th chicken,
1 /80th ham, J/25th crayfish (including
shell?) and 3.20 z. beef per person. The
amount of champagne needed to wash
down the three courses was not specified.
Ah, well, there’s always counter-lunch !
“Nairb.”
❖ ❖ •>
“Sack”: From my Sunday newspaper
on what it calls “The Creek-bed Murder
case”: “At first the victim was dubbed
‘The Man With a Limp’ because the heel
of the left shoe was worn down more
than that of the right shoe. (However,
experts since told detectives that most
people wear their heels unevenly. Right-
footers jab down harder on the right
heel,” etc. Seems to me that a detective
who had never been observant enough
to notice such an elementary and obvious
matter could find a job more suitable to
his talents—mending boots, for instance.
❖ ❖ *
“Jock”: It had to come. A newly
built hotel at Newcastle (N.S.W.) has a
lino.-cut mural depicting two punters
doing their shirts. The man swinging
the'bag is seen accepting a shirt and tie
from a punter dressed only in singlet,
underpants and socks. Behind him is
another shivering bettor already fleeced.
The background is occupied by three
horses racing round a bend.
❖ ❖
“Sister Ellell”: When I was working
in the underprivileged suburbs of Sydney*
one of my ladies was obtaining a divorce
on dime-payment, with the help of a lady
solicitor . . . Labor was prolonged, and
it was in between-tinies that I heard the
bits’n pieces re the divorce being almost
absolute. After I’d bathed and dressed
Junior, and presented him for her,
perusal, I said: “Soon you’ll be able to
marry his father.” But she dashed my
hopes of anything so tidy: “I did think
so; but after this little effort I’d be a
fool to come at it again!”
*z* ♦> ►>
■ “Willpar”: An-American TV cooking-
demonstrator. in Australia under the
sponsorship of a women’s magazine, is
quoted in one of its cooking-supple-
ments as saying, “Good cooks practise
economy.” Overleaf is one of her entree
recipes. The ingredients: One 3Tib.
chicken, 1 small duck, Hlb. boned loin
pork, 1 lobster, 12 large prawns, lib.
salt -cod, 10 scallops, mushrooms, green
peppers, apples, red wine, brandy, sherry
. . . It recalls Tallulah Bankhead’s
Christmas gift of recipes to her English
friends during World War 11, in which
one began: “Take one-dpzen eggs . . .”
❖ * ❖
“C.S.”: The bus-proprietor at Hamp-
ton, the Melbourne suburb, who cut his
price by 3d. a gallon at his ser-
vice-station and was challenged by the
nearest 25 stations, which directed three
different stations each week to cut their
price by 5d., has won. The 25 owners
have declared the war off because it
was too costly ; drivers queued-up for
the cheap petrol, and the 22 other stations
suffered-. “We were quite surprised.” said
one station-proprietor, sounding rather
hurt and disillusioned, too, at the despic-
able public interest in money’s-worth!
i* »> *>
“Mugga Way”: The pub in whose bar
1 meet friends on a Saturday morning is
being raffled at £1 a ticket, and we
usually throw in a few bob and buy a
ticket f between us. Invariably, the dis-
cussion then turns to ways of running
the place, to refurnishing, and even to
rebuilding. The barmaid who sells the
ticket puts her claim in for. a job, and
the-linal thought is about the party we’ll
throw in the precincts on the day we
learn we’ve won. As the drawing isn’t
until December we have plenty of time
to muse on our future wealth and
comfort.
"You re not likely ‘My Fair Lady ' by any chance?”
SURVIVAL OF THE FEWEST
Making a record, so l hear,
For new members in one year,
Sixty-four-thousand motorists
Swelled the N.R.M.A. lists:
The race is to the swift and skilled :
Kill or be killed ; kill or be killed.
But what a prospect, what a prize
Is held before pedestrian eyes;
At some hot very distant day
One yet may live to hear them say :
“Don't run down that curious man—
He is the Last Pedestrian!”
And they will turn a park into
A nfotorless pedestrian zoo.
And bring him wine and bring him meat
And the last girl who walks the street,
Thus to avoid the mass disgrace, ; •
The murder of an ancient race.
“And / shall make you beds of roses
And a thousand fragrant posies,
A cap of flowers, and a kittle
Embroidered all with leaves of myrtle” —
So don't you go hitch-hiking off ;
Come, walk with me, and be my love !
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


TOZeather is a weapon; it hit
* * the Americans forcefully when 55
B-52’s of Strategic Air Command were
damaged by hailstorm. But it isn’t a
new weapon. On December 16-17, 1943,
returning bombers from Berlin found
their airfields fog-shrouded. Four-hun-
dred-and-fifty aircraft attacked the target,
25 were lost through enemy action, and
29 crashed in the United Kingdom —over
half the total loss. R.A.A.F.-ers-may well
remember that gloomy dawn —the only
four Australian aircraft downed were
weather-casualties. —“Airs-crew.”
♦> »:♦ ♦>
“D.M.”: “You’re wanted in the office
—Jonathan Smith’s father’s after your
blood,” murmured the senior male
assistant. . Jonathan’s dirty, careless
work-book, open on the table, hit me in
the eye as the Head said, “Mr. Smith
would like to talk to you about this
book.” Feeling a little nettled, I said:
“Well, I don’t blame you really for com-
plaining, Mr. Smith —it is disgraceful . . .
However, with your help and interest we
might get somewhere ; we can’t have an
intelligent boy like Jonathan with bad
attitudes ...” I stopped in full spate.
Mr. Smith’s mouth was working like our
goldfish’s, and the Head’s face was oddly
crumpled. In a strangled voice he told
me, “Mr. Smith sees nothing wrong with
the book ; he wants you to stop worry-
ing Jonathan about it, as you are undoing
all their good work in developing
Jonathan’s personality!”
♦5 * ♦>
“Myall”: In Brisbane 50 years ago
many a “trammie” was handed a
sovereign in mistake for the humble
deener (B. 9/7/’5B) by men with their
heads stuck in their papers. It was quite
a saving when, early in World War I,
gold currency was replaced by notes.
* * *
“Kelms”: Inflation has been hitting
that section of the W.A. public which
has difficulty in paying fines. Since pre-
depresh. days the standard option has
been three days’ jail for every quid of
the fine, and it stayed at that after the
fines themselves had been brought more
into line with present values. A new
regulation has altered that for breaches
of traffic-rules—for those offences the
Beak can award only one day for each
quid. That’s still a long way short of
equity, but it’s that far ahead of the Act
governing civil offences, which still
remains at the ancient rate. Result is that
an offender who can pay his tenner gets
off with just that; the bloke who can’t
raise the cash forfeits a month’s pay-
five times the amount of the fine.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Kate”: Tell me, what are our city
lanes and country roads going to be like
in 10 years’ time? Walk up any Mel-
bourne lane now and what do you see?
Beer-cans everywhere. There was a time
when bottle-oh’s, small boys and Scout
bottle-drives snatched up every bottle.
But who wants empty cans? On the
Geelong-Melbourne road the reflection
picked-up by the headlights of the car
from the discarded cans thrown by the
roadside made the trip a blinding one.
Also, for the huge flats to be built over
the Jolimont railway-yard everything is
planned—lifts will go right down to the
station, a garbage-master on each floor
will dispose of all garbage, including
beer-bottles—but the planners are stumped
by what to do with beer-cans.
❖ ❖ *
“Bo”: Under-chin stubble having
frayed the collar of my nylon shirt, I
eventually ran-down a place where they
gave it a retread by sacrificing the shirt-
"Justice will NOT be tempered with mercy as far as I am concerned."
tail, the space being filled-in with a
tenuous and diaphanous piece of material.
With the result that, these fresh morn-
ings, from the sixth vertebra north 1 am
registering a gratifying warmth while
below that latitude I’m doing a freeze.
However, I am not without hope ; only
another four collar-retreads and I’ll be
able to reback the shirt with duck or
even fur.
♦> •> ♦:<
“Postscript”: “Doric” rarely gets “ser-
vice with a smile” in post-offices (B.
16/7/’5B) mainly because almost all post-
offices are understaffed ; consequently
most attendants at counters are harassed
and overworked. An unbiased observer
would admit that smiles aren’t common
on the other side of the counter, either—
mainly because of long queues and long
waits for service. Yet, whenever the Com-
monwealth Public Service strength is
appreciably increased to correspond with
business transacted and/or services pro-
vided, there are howls of protest from
the newspapers.
❖ *i+ ♦>
“E.M.8.”: “P.0.M.C.” is astray in his
Perth memories when he talks of
Scotch College v. Christian Brothers
College football-matches of 45 years
ago (B. 9/ 7 / ’5B). I was a member
of the Scotch firsts in 1912, T 3
and ’l4 and do not remember P. C.
Anderson ever addressing the assembled
school in such terms either before or
after a match. He may have told indi-
viduals or groups “to play the ball, and
not the man,” but he never had occasion
to reproach the whole school for bad
sportsmanship or hooliganism, and the
Head of C.B.C. didn’t, either. These
matches were certainly played very hard,
but I do not remember any hooliganism.
The umpire was the late Ivor Crapp, that
prince of Australian Rules umpires ; his
loud warning of “Na, na, lad!” to a player
tor anything approaching unduly rough
or unfair play is still well remembered.
1 am entirely supported by a prominent
member of Scotch teams of that period,
who adds that many members of the
opposing teams in a week-day match
went to the pictures together on the
following Saturday.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Blocker”: I have never been guilty
of “interfering” with a W.A.A.F. (B.
9/7/’5B), but I gave a Land Army girl
an awful scare 15 years ago at Church
Broughton, an Australian operational-
training unit in Derbyshire. Every free
night would see me pounding along
lanes, trying to repair the ravages of
weekend leave in Derby. This night I
had covered about a mile when, round-
ing a bend, I noticed a figure camouflaged
by jodhpurs and heavy sweater but still
obviously female ; as I approached she
glanced around, paused, then broke into
a trot. I assumed that she, too, was a
fitness addict, so, delighted at the prospect


of a training-partner, I added a couple of
pounds of boost. Within 50yds. I was sit-
ting-in comfortably behind her, noting the
neat arm-and-leg movement, and was
about to open conversation when she
threw another backward glance, emitted
a piercing scream, leaped the roadside
ditch, ploughed through the hedge with-
out breaking stride. It was not until I
was almost back at the unit that it
occurred to me that a bony, 6ft. figure,
clad in athletic singlet, brief Canadian-
issue blue shorts and sandshoes, looming
up out of the dusk on a lonely country
lane, could be rather frightening. After
that I did my running on the perimeter-
track.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Kenyas”: During these cold evenings
two or three members of the family join
in a game of Scrabble, much to the in-
“And Charlie here provides the NICEST contrast .”
terest of the cat, who sits on the table
and has to be forcibly restrained from
taking part. But he beat us the other
night when, with one adroit movement
of a paw, he made a word which is never,
never used in a respectable household.
* * *
•* mn nnn „ M re
Willpar : While it took 200 000 years
lor ulr'n 8 h -T?? P°Pt>lation to
reach 2500-m.U.on, it will now take a mere
\S- a( , L anot e ! - •
W.th the present rate of increase it can
be calculated that in 600 years the num-
ber of human-beings will be such that
there will be only one square-metre for
each to live on.” This, from a United
Nations report, must have been written
by an Englishman, for he continues, “It
goes without saying that this can never
take place,” and then makes the kind
of understatement, pregnant with incom-
prehensible possibilities, that only an
Englishman could make: “Something will
happen to prevent it.”
“Erb”: “Justin Thyme” (B. 16/7/’5B)
is a little off the beam in ascribing
quotations of a poem about a “Chinee”
cook to Essex Evans. It was written by
Queenslander Brunton Stephens, who
wrote “My Chinee Cook” and “My Other
Chinee Cook.”
*l* ❖ ❖
“Maitri”: The flare-up in Ceylon re-
calls a notable Buddhist layman in a
Colombo hotel dining-room enjoying a
hearty serving of roast-beef. Knowing
him to be an upasaka (one who has made
vows to abstain from, among other things,
taking life), I expressed my surprise
at finding him eating meat. He said :
“I have not taken life, and, as I never
eat in the same hotel or restaurant for
two days running and the proprietoi
doesn't know anyway whether I’m going
to eat at his place or not, it cannot
reasonably be claimed that anything is
ever killed on my account.”
A A
“D.E.M.”: After her daughter’s quiet
wedding a friend felt rather downcast,
and her husband suggested a visit to the
movies. In her wedding finery she pre-
ceded him by a few . minutes down a
track > main . road . A drunk
on home from the b
materiaiised \ a the dusk . before the
startled woman could protest he lifted
chi red intQ h £ f mutt ered
old / and shambled on
“A.J.S.”: Case against the State
Lotteries Commission, for payment of
first-prize to a claimant who alleged that
he had lost the winning ticket, hinged on
the evidence of handwriting experts. The
commission’s nominee held too strong a
hand for the claimant. But Con, one
of our staff, has the infallible answer:
Approached by the social-club secretary
with “Con, do you want the last ticket
in the book for the £BOOO draw?” Con
said, “Yes, give us it.” Taking the book
he disappeared from the sec.’s sight, re-
turned a few minutes later and said,
“Well, they might be able to argue about
a bloke’s signature, but no judge
could question his fingerprints.” He had
placed his thumb on the selfinking-pad
and then pressed it firmly down on the
butt of the ticket.
♦♦♦ *i*
“D.1.M.”: I saw her walking along
the street, her hat at a rakish tilt and
two bottles of beer clutched lovingly
in her arms ; the chap leaning against
the lamp-post assured her that the taxi
really was there and it was quite safe
for her to step into it. She did so and
went out of my life ; then he told me :
“Last night she went down to catch the
evening ferry-launch at the end of the
jetty and walked aboard ; only trouble
was it wasn’t there. They fished her out,
but her bottles of beer and her purse were
left in ten-feet of water. She said plenty,
but it was nothing to what she said today
when she heard that some fellows had
dived for the beer, given no thought, to
•her purse, but left her the empties. It’s
a long way round by taxi, but she’s
taking no risks tonight.”
SERENITY DISTURBED
“The only time that Sydney’s bookmakers
appear to get excited or bad-tempered is
when they are playing golf.” —Sports writer.
Take note : When with trouble
Through too-well-backed double
They come face to face,
Of fuss and of flurry,
Of chagrin and worry
The books show no trace.
Their reaction is static;
They’re wholly phlegmatic.
Even when they have scored,
While counting big winnings
There aren’t even grinnings —
So much are they bored.
The punter 'engages
In frenzies and rages
On doing his wad;
In fierce demonstration
He’ll vent his vexation —
Which isn’t so odd !
Do books go abusing
Their clients for losing
To them? No! Quite calm,
Their bunce they’ll be bagging,
For sang-froid unflagging
Is their special balm.
On golf-course “relaxing,”
Though — that’s where they’re taxing
Their blood-pressures most.
Their hair they’ll be tearing
And vividly swearing
When pipped on the post
By putt that has rolled in,
Or chip-shot that’s holed-in.
That jolts self-control
And sets bookies braying,
For — dammit! — they’re playing
For two-bob a hole!
n.s.w.
S.W.K.


INDUSTRY AND THE RAILWAYS No. 5
i
i
m
.
• m
N*v. M
vt
3.2 millioßm
Twelve million pine trees are growing in the forests of Australian Paper
Manufacturers Ltd. and their numbers are ever-increasing.
Vitally essential to the manufacture of paper, the long-fibred softwood pulp of
these new Australians makes each one of them a gilt-edged investment for
Australia.
The insatiable demand for paper, in its many forms, has seen the emergence
and growth of an immense industry in which A.P.M., with its seven great mills,
has been a courageous and visionary leader.
From the pulp freighted to A.P.M.'s giant mill at Botany to the finished products
that flow, in scores of differing forms, into the very veins of Industry, the New
South Wales Government Railways plays an important part in a drama that has
no end.
In serving this one industry, it is serving many.
For twenty-four hours in every day, the wealth of the State, expressed in huge tonnages
of raw materials and manufactured goods, is constantly passing along its vast network.
The expansion of Industry in this State is greatly dependent as it has
been for over a century —on the efficient services of the New South Wales
Government Railways the largest transport organisation in
Australia.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
RAI LWAYS
OF
6
q:
yr,
Uj
Q
oo
iK£
£0(/Ttt
Bl*S


POLITICAL POINTS
A man in South Australia ns looking
for an island on which to breed rabbits.
He’s too late ; someone beat him to the
idea a century ago—and picked the
world’s biggest island.
• •
Abdul Kassem’s protestations of friend-
ship with all nations, including Britain
and America, would sound more
genuine if one could forget that until a
fortnight ago he was the sworn supporter
of King Feisal who, because of his policy
of friendship with Britain and America,
was murdered by the mob unleashed by
Kassem.
• •
At 78 Sir Earle Page is still producing
plans for national development. Address-
ing a Country-party conference in Perth
on Monday he set as a goal a population
of 30 million in 30 years.
Explaining the rapid growth of the
United States at the beginning of last
century he said this was due to the con-
tinuous formation of new States to keep
pace with development; continuous and
active encouragement of migration ; en-
couragement of the import of private
capital. He felt that the same policy
could produce results in Australia, and
he proposed a plan of development in-
volving the growth of many medium-
sized cities and towns instead of the con-
tinued expansion of the present over-
grown capitals. “I visualise, under this
programme, a Federation of 30 future
States of which 25 need have no towns
larger than 300,000.”
All this, said Sir Earle, would involve
far greater food-production than at
present; also vastly increased secondary
industries. He advocated the estab-
lishment of a National Council of
Defence and Development to operate
on the lines of the Australian
Loan Council. This would main-
tain continuous and close consultation
between Governments on public works ;
watch the employment situation and the
state of the economy; confer with
private industry on new industries ; pro-
vide co-operation in civil defence.
Capital? Well, U.S. economy needs
outside fields for investment. Australian
resources should be mobilised to attract
some of it.
• •
The Doc. is complaining that Menzies
has not disclosed the full facts of the
Middle East crisis, but that isn’t stopping
him from disagreeing completely with
the P.M.’s assessment of the situation.
If Evatt knows the “full” facts, where did
he obtain his information and why hasn’t
he disclosed ’em?
• •
N. S. Wales Local Government Minis-
ter Renshaw is still holding-out for his
own particular brand of commission on
local-government boundary-changes. On
Friday the Minister held discussions with
representatives of the Shires Association
and the Local Government Association,
but no decision was reached.
The proposed Renshaw commission
would consist of a representative of the
Shires Association, a representative of
the Local Government Association and
an officer of the department. The two
associations want a four-man commis-
sion ; three as above, but with a District
Court judge as chairman.
Apart from the inclusion of a judge
the vital difference in the two plans is
that the associations want the right to
nominate their own representatives;
under the Renshaw plan these would be
chosen by him from a panel of names.
In view of the large number of forced
amalgamations already accomplished or
projected, it isn’t surprising that Ren-
shaw’s commission is regarded as a mere
trap for the unwary. There can be no
faith in a commission which is so
obviously designed to be kept under the
Rensbaw thumb.
• •
J. P. Ormonde has been nominated
by the N.S.W. executive of the A.L.P.
as Senate candidate for the vacancy
caused by the death of Senator Ashley ;
his nomination by the Cahill Govern-
ment will follow as a matter of course.
Ormonde will then automatically take
his seat in the Senate but will have to
face the electors at the next election,
when six Senators will have to be elected
for N. S. Wales instead of the usual
five. Labor intends to run a team of
four—Senator Arnold, J. P. Ormonde,
Senator Amour and G. S. Manuel, in
that order.
• •
On Saturday Premier Nicklin will open
Queensland’s second bulk-handling plant
for the shipment of sugar. It is at
Lucinda Point. The first plant opened
Was at Mackay, and a third will begin
operations at Bundaberg in September.
• 9
Australia’s exports of refined petroleum
products are increasing rapidly. In the
March quarter this year they totalled
350,000 tons compared with the 1957
quarterly average of 219,000 tons. New
Zealand (135,000 tons) was the biggest
market, with Aden (132,000 tons) close
behind ; Singapore took 46,000 tons and
India-Ceylon 31,000.
“Guess what I brought you back from the U.S.A., dear!”


Even Cahill himself now seems a little
apprehensive concerning his party’s pros-
pects at the next N. S. Wales election. At
his welcome-home dinner he told his
colleagues that if he had been at the
A.L.P. conference when the decision to
abolish the Legislative Council was
taken he would have advised retaining
the Upper House a little longer. He said
that Labor now controlled the Council,
and “in case of anything happening” and
to prevent the party’s legislation from
being wiped-out he would have advised
conference to retain it.
“In case of anything happening” was
taken by his audience to refer to the
possibility of the Government being de-
feated at the polls and losing its majority
in ,the Assembly—a contingency neither
Cahill nor the party has ever before
admitted to be possible.
• •
Victorian members are pressing the
Bolte Government for higher salaries
than the current £2OOO-£2400, claiming
that they’ve had no rise since 1954,
though the pay of school-teachers and
public servants has been upped twice,
resulting in some heads of department
getting more than Cabinet Ministers.
Cynics are saying that it’s only fair that
departmental heads should be paid more
than Ministers: they have to shoulder
the responsibility of making Cabinet’s
decisions.
• •
To overcome the problem of the
cheerful idiot who exercises his Senate
franchise by voting straight through the
card without regard for parties or per-
sonalities, the Constitutional Association
of New South Wales has suggested a
change in the shape of the ballot-paper.
The association suggests a square paper
on which the names of the groups of
candidates are arranged in segments of
a circle.
The voting instructions will be printed
in identical form on each of the four edges
of the square. It will thus necessarily
become pure chance that the voter should
start marking his paper at one point rather
than another, and among any substantial
number of voters this chance will become
distributed among the groups with mathe-
matical equality.
There is much to commend this idea.
The Bulletin was the first paper to
point-out that a comparison of Commu-
nist votes at successive elections when
that party did and did not draw first
place on the ballot-paper was a fairly
accurate guide to the extent of the
“accidental” vote, and that the indications
were that it was in the vicinity of 2
per cent. Figures quoted by the Con-
stitutional Association confirm this.
• •
With Tasmanian Premier Cosgrove on
the sick-list, E. E. Reece, newly elected
deputy-leader of the Parliamentary Labor
party, becomes Acting-Premier in
succession to former Attorney-General
Fagan. Reece has been in the Tasmanian
Parliament since 1946, is Minister for
Lands and Works and a former Federal
president of the A.L.P. W. Neilson,
former Minister for Forests, Tourists and
Immigration, becomes Attorney-General,
and A. C. Atkins takes-over trees, trippers
and New Tasmanians.
Fagan, now a private member, is
appearing as counsel for the watersiders
in the Hursey case in Hobart Supreme
Court.
• •
“Mugga Way”: It is many decades
since the postman came right to the front-
door in Australia, but the idea of a post-
box at the front-gate has apparently just
reached Britain. P.M.G. Marples is
reported to be directing a time-and-
motion study of postmen in action in a
country town to ascertain how to reduce
the time taken on rounds. It is solemnly
stated in British newspapers that Mr.
Marples thinks a box might be fixed to
garden-gates—and that he may get the
Fine Arts Commission and the Council
of Industrial Design to make him a
sample. Australians would be glad if
their P.M.G. would do a little time-and-
immobility study among the sorters.
• •
Australia was one of the original
members on the board of the Inter-
national Atomic Energy Agency, and will
again be a member in 1958-59. The
budget to be recommended to the agency’s
second general conference in September
in Vienna will be for £A2,350,000.
• •
Senator Harrie Stephen Seward, dead
in Perth at 74, had been in Parliament
since 1933, when he was elected to the
Westralian Assembly as member for
Pingelly, except' for a gap of 12 months
between the time that electorate was
abolished and his election to the Senate
in 1951. In the Westralian McLarty
Government he was Minister for Rail-
ways and Transport and in the Senate he
served on the Printing Committee, the
Public Accounts Committee and the
Standing Committee on Regulations and
Ordinances. A Digger from 1915, Seward
was wounded at Polygon Wood, returned
to Australia and was discharged. Re-
enlisting, he was again overseas when
the Armistice was signed.
• •
“C.S.”: The peculiar mind of official-
dom is illustrated by the remarks of the
town-clerk of Heidelberg (Vic.) on the
release to the press of a report by J. H.
Strover, the council’s planning-officer,
opposing the plan of Stanhill Pty., Ltd.,
to subdivide land in the green-belt.
Despite Strover’s adverse report the
council approved the subdivision. “Some-
one has committed a grave breach of
confidence in making the report avail-
able for publication,” said the town clerk.
Breach of confidence? What’s the world
coming to in letting the public know the
facts?
• •
After years of agitation the S.A.
Murray settlements are to get another
bridge across the river. The Public
Works Committee has approved a site
and price—Blanchetown, on the Sturt
Highway ; £666,000. Approval and
accomplishment are not, however, quite
the same thing. Playford told an inquirer
be doubted whether a start could be
made on the bridge this year. He said
there was no point in starting it unless
there was a certainty that it could be
finished. That’s a viewpoint the Cahill
Government doesn’t subscribe to.
“Start ’em all and blame Fadden if you
can’t get the dough to finish ’em” is its
motto.
e •
The Queensland Dairyman’s Associa-
tion is to ask the Federal Government
to put an excise on table-margarine,
irrespective of the origin of its ingre-
dients. The request has little hope of
acceptance. The reason people now buy
more margarine than they did is that the
manufacturers have gone to the trouble
of making it more palatable. Most
people who use it would probably admit
that butter still tastes better —but not
two-bob a pound better.
• •
Twelve diesel rail-cars and 660 rail-
wagons were shipped from Fremantle to
Bombay last week as part of Australia’s
Colombo Plan contribution to India’s
programme of rehabilitation and
development of its railway-system. The
total programme is a gigantic task,
estimated to cost £9OO million.
• o
When Melbourne Trades Hall Council
criticised the U.S. for “having intervened
by armed force” in Lebanon, one of the
dissentients, J. P. Maynes, Federal
president of the Clerks’ Union,
pointed out that the council, with-
out knowing anything about it, jumped
in and carried a motion of condemna-
tion, but on the recent execution of
Hungarians had asked the A.C.T.U. to
investigate the matter.
In this climate, of course, unity-tickets
aren’t at all difficult to comprehend.
• •
Illustrating the relatively low priority
given to road-funds in Australia, P. J.
Scales, chief executive of the Australian
Road Federation, says that only 8 per
cent, of this country’s 525,742 miles of
roads are paved and sealed. Of the rest,
22 per cent, are paved but unsealed, 22
per cent, merely formed and 21 per cent,
only cleared. The remaining 27 per cent,
is in its “natural state.” He didn’t
explain what the difference is between
a road which is neither paved, sealed,
formed nor cleared but is merely in its
natural state and other land, not classi-
fied as road, which is also merely in its
natural state.
« •
Britain’s car-exports in May. were a
record both in number and value —48,000,
valued at £lB million sterling. From
January to the end of May 60,599 British
cars were imported into the United States,
compared with 35,000 in the correspond-
ing period of 1957.


PERSONAL ITEM
Presbyterian Minister the Rev. Julian
Ralph Blanchard, who has been awarded
the honorary degree of Doctor of
Divinity by Edinburgh University, is an
old Fortian and a B.A. of Sydney Uni-
versity ; he entered the ministry in
Sydney, and has filled pulpits in Perth,
New Zealand and South Australia. Now
Minister Emeritus of Scots Church,
Adelaide, he has been Moderator in
Westralia, and Moderator-General of
Australia (1949-51).
• •
A. B. Carroll, of Redbank, Molong
(N.S.W.), elected Federal president of
the Australian Corriedale Association, is
a past-president of the N.S.W. branch,
to which post his brother, W. C. Carroll,
of Beulah, Trangie (N.S.W.), has been
elected. Federal vice-presidents are:
E. T. Loton (W.A.), E. C. L. Head (Vic.),
C. A. Archer (Tas.), A. M. Rodda (S.A.)
and T. S. Patterson (Q.).
• •
With 331 days’ leave on completion of
his service and a 15-year'-old son at school
in England (who is thinking of migrat-
ing), Brig. W. H. Bordass, ex-Horse
Gunner and lately senior staff-officer to the
Inspector-General of the Home Guard in
Malaya, came down to have a look at
Australia and New Zealand. Calling in at
The Bulletin office he mentioned among
his Australian acquaintances (some of
whom had been in the Home Guard in
Malaya), Mclnnes, of Brisbane, and
HORSE-GUNNER
West and Kerry, of Perth, all of whom
were decorated for service there. Bordass
joined the Royal Artillery in 1917 and
had his “jacket” for nine years. He
served in France in War I and in Ger-
many, India and Egypt between the wars ;
was back in France in War II ; later was
D|eputy Director of Military Govern-
ment (North Rhine and Westphalia)
from 1945-47, and went to Malaya in
1951.
• •
“R.R.D.”: A murky London day in
1956. I turned into Fleet Street and
found the route lined with naval and
R.A.F. troops with their colors and with
bayonets fixed, a Royal Marine band
opposite Peterborough House. I asked
a policeman what was on. He said:
“The King of Eyerack's going by to
Guild’all in a minute.” As he spoke, I
heard an unwonted cheer come from the
watching crowd towards Temple Bar—-
strange, for Londoners don’t give their
cheers away for nothing. The sound of
hoof beats, words of command as the
route-lining troops presented-arms, the
band playing the Iraqi anthem, and then
a captain’s escort of the Blues came by
at the stiff ceremonial trot —plumes
tossing, aiquilettes dancing on their
breastplates—surrounding an open State
landau. In the carriage sat a solitary
figure, King Feisal of Iraq, in immaculate
uniform. The impression he left, as he
turned right and left to acknowledge
salutes and acclamation, was of youth
and of complete serenity. The exhilara-
tion of this fast-moving procession and
the inspiration of this young man
obviously born to rule. Born to suffer,
too, one could see on looking deeper,
for it was the face of a dreamer, not of
a man of action.
• 9
New chairman of Melbourne Racing
Club, Tom Carlyon is a member of
one of Victoria’s best-known hotelier
families; he runs Carlyon’s Hotel, oppo-
site Spencer-street Station, one of the
first city signs to greet inter-State rail-
travellers. He has raced a few horses,
with some success, including steeple-
chaser Calchas in partnership with
“Cardigan” (Bert Wolfe), doyen of Aus-
tralian racing-writers. The M.R.C. is
building Sandown Park, between Mel-
bourne and Dandenong, and proposes to
make it the best racecourse in the
Southern Hemisphere; the new chair-
man, who has been hon. treasurer for
some years, is making this his racing-aim.
• •
"Chairman of the Graziers’ Federal
Council's cattle-council, R. S. Wilson,
of Calliope station, Gladstone (Q.), is
the son of J. L. Wilson, who was one
of Australia’s best-known cattle-men.
Calliope Hereford Stud holds an annual
sale on the station which attracts cattle-
men from all over Queensland and inter-
state. Besides his stud-interests, Wilson
judges at Queensland shows and for the
R.A.S., Sydney.
• •
Irish-born Timothy Joseph O’Leary
graduated in medicine at University
College, Dublin, in 1949 and did post-
graduate training in Eire and England
AIR-DOCTOR
before coming here in 1952. A brief term
with the Department of Public Health
in Sydney followed; then five years with
the Royal Flying Doctor Service (hon.
visiting medical-officer of the Charters
Towers District Hospital), and this year
acting medical-superintendent of the
R.F.D.S. He is interested in the history
of the settlement of North Queensland,
and likes the feel of a good horse under
him.
• •
Leader of the Mudgee (N.S.W.) Young
Farmers’ Club (he's a foundation-mem-
ber, too, with nine State championships
and 10 year’s junior-farmer activities to
his credit), Brian Keech, of Oakfield,
Lawson’s Creek, Mudgee, got back from
his travels in time to lend a hand in
organising last week’s Junior Farmers’
conference there.
After winning a tour-contest for junior
farmers sponsored by the Bank of New
South Wales,- Keech spent four months
in New Zealand, with fishing and flying
providing a bit of relaxation in what
was generally a strenuous, instructive
tour. Highlights on this latter side were
the N.Z. Young Farmers’ annual confer-
ence and their National Stock-judging
Contest.
• •
“5 GR.”: The impending retirement
of Brig. W. H. Scott, C.M.G., D.S.O.
and Bar, V.D., as shire-engineer of Bass


(Vic.) recalls a telegram he sent to
relatives: “Received a flesh-wound.”
Nobody believed it; they reckoned
he was too skinny for a flesh-wound.
It was Scott’s Light Horse brigade that
rode their horses in the pursuit in
Palestine for 72 hours without water.
No camel-corps ever bettered that. Scott
can be briefly tabbed as one of those
militia-officers with profound military
knowledge, commonsense and determina-
tion, and a distaste for military detail.
• •
His war-time staff-officer farewells Sir
Victor Hurley:
At a dinner at the Naval and Military Club,
Melbourne, on the retirement of Major-General
G. W. Baiber from the post of Army Director-
General Medical Services, Colonel Victor
Hurley, his part-time assistant and adviser,
remarked in a speech that he, too, had been
placed in mothballs, having reached Army
retiring-age.
For the medical branch of the R.A.A.F.
this was the finest thing that could have
happened. On the outbreak in 1939 Sir
Charles Burnett (then Chief of Air Stan) offered
the appointment of Director of Medical
Services, R.A.A.F., to Victor Hurley—and the
A.F.M.S.’s giowth, expansion and efficiency
and its research into problems of aviation
medicine by teams of experts organised by
Air-Commodore Hurley are today matters of
history.
In the creation of a service independent
of its former de facto military control, the
D.M.S. (afterwaids D.G.M.S.) had the loyalty,
respect and affection of every member of his
organisation. Although a disciplinarian, he
was very human, overlooking and rectifying
without reproach mistakes honestly acknow-
ledged ; but the “wool-over-the-eyes” merchant
made no second slip.
With a keen sense of humor and a delightful
twinkle in his dark, penetrating eyes, he
enjoyed the joke played in his nam.r in War 11.
A medical officer serving in Meiauke (Dutch
N.G.) ordered to "transfer to a sta.f-appoimment
at H.Q., Melbourne, signalled: “Please cancel
posting. Will be schizophrenic in a fortnight
in a staff-job.” The reply went back: “Posting
stands. Report as directed. All schizo. here.
Fortnight’s sanity will be appreciated.—Hurley.”
Air-Vice-Marshal Hurley’s Air Force service
was rewarded with the C. 8., and a knighthood
followed on his return to civil life. But perhaps
he would have considered his happiest and
proudest moments those when, each Anzac Day,
he marched with his old comrades of the
14th Field Ambulance, Ist A.I.F.
• ’ •
Formerly of Westralia, George Mulgrue
is now in Bangkok as public-relations
officer for the Food and Cultural Organi-
sation ol the U.N. His wife, who was
on the A.B.C.’s clerical staff in Perth
when he was broadcasting there, is a
line?’ descendant of the Rev. Samuel
Marsden, of early New South Wales and
New Zealand. Mulgrue, an artillery
lieutenant in the Hitler disturbance, was
captured at Tobruk ; post-war he joined
the Department of Information as a
journalist. In his present work he was
in Mexico and for six years in Rome
before going to Bangkok.
• •
Just resigned after 34 years as chair-
man of the Far West Children’s Health
Scheme, Dr. George Moncrieff Barron
thinks back to a day in 1924 when he
saw a crowd of children swarming
through a cottage opposite his private
hospital at Manly (N.S.W.). Turning to
the Rev. Stanley Drummond, the minis-
ter who founded the scheme, he said:
“Well, if you’re going to look after their
souls, I suppose I’d better look after
their bodies.” And so he constituted
himself medical superintendent of the
scheme, which looks after children of
the outback—giving an annual holiday
to those who have never seen the sea,
and also providing medical treatment for
other country children in need.
Dr. Barron (president of the N.S.W.
branch of the B.M.A. in 1939) has been
chairman of the scheme since that day ;
after Drummond died he took on much
of the responsibility of running it.
His successor as chairman is N. W.
Drummond, brother of the founder, who
recently retired from the position of
Director of Primary Education and
Deputy Director-General of Education
in N.S.W.
J. A. PARKINSON (cobbers call him
“Croc”), advertising director of the Nyal
medicine-co., which is putting up a
£1-million factory at Ermington, handy
to Sydney. An N.S.W. executive of the
Australian Association of National
Advertisers, he pioneered the change to
the “open dispensary” and has had a
leading hand in other chemistry advances.
Now 42, he was with the War II A.I.F.
H ere for three months to study our
aborigines, particularly their origins,
Reginald Ruggles Gates, Professor of
Botany at London University, is a world
authority on genetics and anthropology.
On research missions he has crossed the
Atlantic 24 times and has visited
many countries. Though his book on
racial origins is now in the press, he will
make his first contacts with our
aborigines when he visits Alice Springs,
Darwin and more remote parts of the
N.T. One theory he opposes is that
intermarriage of races could make for
general welfare ; he believes that better
social results could be achieved by main-
taining racial purity.
• •
Born in South Australia, Clem Alaric
Robinson shunted westward in 1901 and
entered the Westralian Government Rail-
ways in the Chief Civil Engineers branch,
transferring to the Secretary's branch in
1949. Now, at 60, he takes over the
newly-created post of Finance Director
of the W. A. G. R., second only to the
Commissioner. In World War 1 he was
with the old 11th Battalion.
• •
Young and virile at 70 (he’s an “aerial
millionaire” still holding a pilot’s
licence!), T. Carroll, chief harvesting-
machinery engineer for Massey-Ferguson
in Toronto (Canada), has been awarded
the Cyrus Hale McCormick medal for out-
standing contributions to world agricul-
ture.
Growing-up on a small farm at Bullen-
garook, near Gisborne (Vic.), Carroll has
made harvesting-machinery his study ever
since he started tinkering about with
the rather crude harvesting-implements
on his father’s farm. As L. T. Ritchie,
vice-president and managing-director of
Massey-Ferguson in Australia, sums-
up on him: “An engineer, a leader in
harvesting-techniques and a great Aus-
tralian.”
• •
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 82, Thomas Frederick Davies.
Admitted to the Bar in 1900, he became, in
1921, Registrar, Master and Keeper of the
Records of the Supreme Court, Registrar in
Bankruptcy and Sheriff, and he was several
limes President of the Arbitration Court.
In Melbourne, Colonel George Ingram
Stevenson, C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D. Born in
Scotland, he served in South Africa at 18, and
became a gunner-officer in Australia afterwards.
Known as "The Iron Duke” from his stern
appearance, he had an underlying sense of
humor, and a thorough knowledge of men
and gunnery.
In Melbourne, at 53, the Rev. Selwyn Ide,
former vicar ol Garden Vale and for many
years associated with the Bush Brotherhood
in Northern Queensland.
In Sydney, at 83, E. A. E. Houston, for 50
years on the staff of the legal firm of Min ter
Simpson. He was a member of a party of
N.S.W. Lancers who paid their own fares to
England, trained at Aldershot and served as
volunteers in the Boer War.
In Perth, at 74, H. S. Seward, Westralian
M.L.A. for 15 years, Minister for Railways
and Transport in the McLarty-Watts Govern-
ment, 1947-48, and a Senator (C.P.)' since 1951.
In Brisbane, at 55, T. C. O’Hagan, of the
Supreme Court. Born at Charters Towers,
he was called to the Bar in 1931, appointed
to the Bench in 1951 and to the Supreme
Court in 1952.
In Adelaide, at 70, Roy (“Doc”) Raphael,
former businessman and one of charity’s most
successful workers.
At Burnie (Tas.), at 77, James Rowland
Hilder, director of a number of local com-
panies and co-operative societies. He was
Warden of Burnie Municipality during the
1930’s depression.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 61, Howard Dartrey
Charles Adams, C.M.G., N.Z.’s Parliamentary
law-draftsman, and architect of the Dominion’s
most important legislation.
In Sydney, at 88, Francis Octavius Ebsworth,
solicitor, senior partner of Ebsworth and
Ebsworth. For many years hon. solicitor to
the Mission to Seamen, and a director of Birt
and Co.


WHEN PLANES HIT THE SEA
By GEORGE A. LLANO
During World War II American
transport or combat aircraft
crossed the Atlantic at an average
rate of one every 13 minutes, and
crossed the broader Pacific at the rate
of one every hour-and-a-half. There
were crashes, and the U.S. Air Force
publication Airmen Against the Sea is
a record of the experiences of thousands
of airmen cast upon the great waters
and brought back by simple devices,
ingenuity in foraging from the sea —
and a strong faith that seekers would
find them. In parts the record has a
present-day, civil-flying application.
“You really shouldn't bother, John. I can visit mother some other time”
The most valuable single piece of
equipment issued to the aircrews was
the pneumatic jacket-type life-preserver
or vest dubbed the “Mae West.” Worn
under the parachute, it was inflated by
separate toggle-levers which released
caibon-dioxide stored in two small cylin-
ders, one for each bouyancy-chamber.
The vest could also be inflated by mouth.
Only a very small percentage of Ameri-
can airmen who went into the sea with-
out their Mae West survived. The vest
not only kept men afloat but helped them
escape from sinking aircraft, and brought
them to the surface from depths as low
as 40ft. In one upside-down bailout at
night a pilot hit the water hard and
went deep before he regained conscious-
ness. Dizzy and confused, he inflated
his Mae West and came bouncing to
the surface at once.
The longest swimming period by a
man with a life-vest was 73 hours. That,
however, was a rare instance: a life-ralt
or dinghy is essential for survival over
any long period. One report (date, 1944)
states that, of 870 crews who abandoned
their aircraft in the Central Pacific, 82
per cent, of those having life-rafts were
recovered ; only 48 per cent, of those
without rafts were rescued.
T ike the life-vest, the life-raft is con-
structed of rubberised cloth and in-
flated with carbon-dioxide gas contained
in a large cylinder. The same motion
that releases the raft from its compart-
ment releases the gas into the pneumatic
chambers.
A raft may vary from a one-man to
a 20-man vessel. It amounts to making
a voyage on a-craft drawing less than
2in. of water, with a flexible deck 3/16in.
thick ; nevertheless many successfully
used pneumatic rafts for periods of 10,
20, 30 and even 48 days under the most
severe conditions.
One group of 14 men drifted seven
days on two rafts designed to hold a
quarter of that, number. In an even more
remarkable incident, an Air Force
lieutenant outlived a 100-knot typhoon
in the Central Pacific in which the rescue
submarine was reported to have rolled
10 degrees while resting 200 ft. below
the surface.
Perhaps the best proof of the sturdiness
of the airplane life-raft is given in the
account of a war-time survivor who
salvaged an outrigger canoe. When he
encountered rough seas the constant bail-
ing required to keep afloat forced him
back onto his rubber raft.
All life-rafts include an accessory-kit
containing the gear essential for
housekeeping at sea. This includes food-
and water-rations, a medical-kit, fishing-
lines and hooks, various signalling items,
a hand-pump, sea-anchor, waterproof-
sheet, bailer and, of course, the inevitable
book of words on how to get the most
from a voyage.
The sea- or drift-anchor, also called
drogue, proved to be one of the most
vital pieces of raft-equipment. It holds
the raft into the wind and steadies it in
rough weather. In a heavy swell it
brakes the tendency of the raft to roll,
broach and pitch as it descends into a
trough, and effectively dampens a raft's
corkscrew movements in choppy seas.
Complete losses of provisions, water
and first-aid kits in raft upsets were not
unusual, and often took place at the first
capsizing while the survivors were
examining or checking their jjear. One
20-day survivor who capsized on the first
day had lashed every article in place
and lost nothing. While congratulating
himself with a swig of water he lost his
unfastened canteen cap overboard.
course, on a life-raft, the only pro-
tection from sun or cold was the
clothing worn. In the cooler climates
of the European war-theatre and in the
waters south of Japan very few sur-
vivors mentioned any real discomfort
from thirst, even after three to four days,
but all complained of great discomfort
from cold and exposure. Appetite and
thirst were often overcome by the desire
for warmth.
In the Aleutian waters off Alaska,
where the average sea-temperatures vary
from 47deg. to 52deg. F. during August,
the warmest month, and between 36deg.
and 38deg. F. in the coldest month, total
immersion was usually fatal within one
hour. Only oner man of 10 from a tor-
pedoed vessel survived a half-hour im-
mersion at 29deg. in a sea of floe-ice.
Men knew that they could not last long
on a life-raft in the North Atlantic in
winter ; yet one crew managed to paddle
four-and-a-half days through floe-ice off
the east coast of Greenland.
The high day-temperatures in tropical
seas, combined with insufficient fresh
water, commonly limited survival to
about 12 days. To get relief from the
heat men took overside dips, or sprayed
themselves with sea-water, which was
always cooling. Rescued from the
Central Pacific, Rickenbacker said that
TOO GOOD TO MISS! Brisk, brief,
breezy serial, “From One Beachcomber
to Another”; a personal-experience
account of two years’ of richly-payable
pearl- and shell-hunting and other
adventures, ranging in scene from
Darwin and Torres Straits round to
Broome and reefs and shores in between.
Written from on the spot by beach-
comber “Irish” to his cobber ex-beach-
comber “Snow,” the lively first-hand
record will run to four instalments in
these “Aboriginalities” pages.
Among other things, “Irish” wants to
know r what’s wrong with the current
crop of youngish Australians that they’re
not up North harvesting the riches he’s
been getting.
First instalment here next w r eek.


V«U)U.r»U
fWlC<H£<?
BEAUTICIAN
Beautician
A lw - '
T'WJrd/r'J?
KAIJTICMM
A%*\P
{'im.cfriw
seai/ikT
cum oise
beautician
oise
ICIAM


even when the air and water, were warm
the slapping waves seemed like ice-water.
Other survivors complained of cold after
nightfall and during heavy tropical rain-
storms, even within Bdeg. of the Equator.
"P mergency water was in 12oz. or
A-' 14oz. tins ; these were bulky and
heavy, so that even the largest life-raft
nevei carried more than 14 tins. Toward
the end of the war desalting-kits
were introduced which were about the
same size as one tin of water. Each kit
contained six briquettes of silver alumi-
niurn silicates and a vinylite bag with
a filter base. Each briquette, when
kneaded with 15oz. of salt-water in
the vinylite bag, produced an equal
amount of potable, if slightly strange-
tasting, water. Thus each desalting kit
supplied the equivalent of six cans of
emergency water, with a weight ratio of
approximately l'to 10. A big improve-
ment on this came with the collapsible
solar still. This device is simple to
“The Water certainly gets cold this time of the year.”
operate and has a maximum daily yield
of 320 z. ft has a noon-time efficiency
of about 90 per cent., and of about
50 per cent, in the early morning and
late afternoon. Since the solar is
useless under overcast conditions, rafts
carry both desalting-kits and solar stills.
It would be thought that a castaway’s
best source of wild foods would be
fish ; birds, however, provided not only
food but liquids. Birds were found to
have little fear of nien on the open sea
and were easily caught when they
perched on the rafts. They often pro-
vided fish as well. The American Air
Force commander in the Pacific, General
Twining, who'spent seven days lost at
sea, said: “There were two flying-fish
halfway down the old boy’s [albatross's]
gullet, about half-digested. We cut them
up, too, and passed around a dainty piece
for each man. Tasted like predigested
pickled-herring. Really delicious.”
Through their remarkable 47 days at
sea, during which they drifted over 1200
miles, the American pilot Zamperini and
a companion were sustained by “two
tiny fish, one small shark, three small
birds and four albatross.”
T}rom the records it seems that, given
a decent platform, clothing, and a few
accessories, a castaway skilled in forag-
ing should be able to maintain himself
in most tropic and sub-tropic waters for
at least 30 days. Castaways on rigid
(and usually larger) ship's rafts have an
even better chance; there are records
of sailors rescued after 83 and even 133
days' at sea. These survivors were,
respectively, a Dutch seaman, Hobgen-
dam, and a Chinese steward, Lim Poon.
Their ships were f orpedoed in the South
Atlantic.
There is ona other very important
aspect. A sea-survival is characterised
by a philosophy of waiting, wishing and
watching in a restricted physical environ-
ment. Few knew where they were or
where they would end ; and all lived in
the agony of seeing aircraft and even
ships pass them by. Those who succeeded
did so because they made mental and
physical readjustments to their situation.
They became self-reliant and learned to
forage from the sea. i
* * * *
HThe Government's attempt to establish
A regular European contact with 600
nomadic aborigines in the Rawlinson
Ranges area will no doubt be met with
the usual arguments about demoralisa-
tion and eventual extinction because of
contact with white-man culture and
tucker. Against these I cite the instance
of the first white contacUa Queensland
Native Affairs Department patrol estab-
lished with natives of the Kenwyn River,
Cape York (N.Q.). It was during a
prolonged drought, with resultant absence
of game. So emaciated were the tribe
that only the young and middle-aged men
retained the ability to go bush, as they
did when the dinghies grounded. The
old men, the women and children were
abandoned to the white “invaders.”
Many of those left were so weak they
could only move on all fours. The
while officials departed, leaving behind
a consignment of flour and rice and some
Torres Straits islanders to instruct the
abos. on how to use it. Contacts were
increased in frequency, with the result
that in a few years the tribe has
quadrupled in numbers and is develop-
ing into a vigorously healthy stock,
versed in agriculture and stock-raising.
Properly handled afid without inter-
ference, the Rawlinson Ranges project
will probably have the same happy
result.—“Rus.”
• * * *
“Sevenelms”: Geographically naive is
“Bicky” (B. 9/7/'5B) to place Launching
Place (Vic.) in the Dandenongs and as
a hill resort. Only 3351't. sea-level,
“The Launch” is in thd'Yarra Valley and
below the Warburton Ranges. Nothing
presumptuous about its name, either,
because the sole reason for the town-
ship's existence was that before the bridge
was built over the Yarra a punt, was
kept there on a calm stretch of river be-
tween gradual banks that launched both
stock and humans on their way up the
fertile Don Valley.
*#* * ~
“Bigend”: Kangaroo-shooters in the
Callide Valley (C,Q.) recently bagged a
brown-snake 9ft. lOin. long. Unlike most
Browns in winter it was not hibernating.
Length must be close to a record for a
brown.
BLACK PETER
Black Peter’s dead, his grin is under-
ground,
His liquid eyes are dry, his hands relaxed.
There’s nobody left to feed the towns
stray dogs
Or teach the kids to bait a hook, and
swear.
What if he lived on fish and charity
And pumpkins gathered on the rubbish-
dump
And cabbages he stole from On Foo's
garden? —
He knew where the scrub-wrens nested,
he could feel
The inkling where the fish would bite, he
loved
Not only all things bright and beautiful
He loved the world, all creatures great
and small.
Black Peter's dead, but we who loved him
hear
Rich laughter in the rain upon the roof
And catch his smile from sunlight on the
water
And see his heart in every rain-washed
morning.
QUEENSLAND.
W. SCOOTT.


“They’ve gone THATAWAY.”
TVTot bulking so largely in Australian
timber affairs qs the recent African
Railways’ order for some millions of
feet of jarrah sleepers was an order for
half-a-dozen conductor’s batons. Edouard
van Remoortel arrived insufficiently
equipped, so Sydney Symphony violinist
Ron Cragg made him some. A baton'
in the best tradition has to be blond
for, visibility, tough to withstand the
imperious taps on the podium-stand call-
ing the orchestra to attention or halt,
and streamlined to enable its being
accurately hurled at the cymbalist if he
dozes during passages with infrequent
percussion activity. Classically, the
material is ilex-wood, but whether Ron
took the axe to the family holly-tree is
not known. The best wood in the world
for these melodious w'ands is Tasmanian
pluniw'ood (Eucryphia tnoorii). —“Seven-
elms,”
* * * *
“Keyovadee”: The New Aussie, a few
ales aboard, approaches the country
post-office counter. P.O. official: “Yes?”
N.A.: “The ring-up. The boss.” Official:
“Where?” N.A.: “The station. Eighty
miles. I work. The two brothers.”
Official: “What name?” N.A.: “The
Kingston, I tell you, all right.” Official
gets brain-wave: “You write.” N.A.:
“1 write good.” Prints barely legible sign :
“K-e-n-l-i-s-t-o-n.” More phone-book,
still nothing. Two other officials come
to help the worried one. One, hopefully:
“Kensington?” N.A. beams: “Yah, yah!
The Kingston!” Officials and N.A.
solemnly shake hands all round. One
says: “Boy, oh boy!”
“Malurus”: There seems to be an im-
pression that it’s very unusual for the
large white-breasted sea-eagle to prey
upon smaller birds, such as gulls. It
may be, in fact, a rare thing for the big
fellow to do any grabbing in mid-air,
but he’s always a ready starter when a
ground-bird is on offer. A sea-eagle near
Brisbane was seen to carry off a well-
grown pullet, and in the north-west of
W.A. (where the hefty sea-rover was
known to abos. as “tantogee,” meaning
“great butterfly”) raids on poultry have
frequently been reported. In the same
area an enterprising eagle once tried his
luck with a fox-terrier. For the most
part, however, sea-eagles get their pro-
vender from water —fish, sea-snakes, and
the like.
* * * *
“Margaret”: Bees allergic to red? Not
the ones that fly into our car and bumble
inanely about on the windscreen. While
the rest of us cower as far away as
possible, the red-haired member of the
family induces them to crawl on his
fingers, then lets them out through a
window. And he’s not a beekeeper, and
never has been.
.• * * *
“Alma”: Another for the list of pithy
expressions relative to “getting the boot”
from a rural job: When the trump tells
you to “grease your straps”—that is, of
the swag—you know you’ve “had it.”
# * * «
“Bogaduck”: During a week of heavy
frosts S.A. recorded its lowest official
air temperature ; 17.8 deg. at Yongala in
the northern highlands. I’ve seen lower
than that in S.A. . Camping beside a
bogged truck in a gully near Mt. Bryan
I hung my thermometer in- a bush at the
standard 4ft. from the ground. 1 slept
between three small fires, abo.-fashion,
about 100yds. away. Just before dawn
I read the thermometer. It stood at
14deg.—18deg. of frost!
* * * *
' “Vansittart”: The Magistrate’s Court
at Whitemark, Flinders Island (north of
Tasmania), lately dealt with cases which
revealed conflict between fishermen’s
rights on the Continental Shelf controlled
by Commonwealth law and their rights
within territorial waters under Tasmanian
law. One Victorian fisherman was
charged with having in his possession
140-dozen female crays caught during
the Tasmanian closed season. He held
a Commonwealth licence and had got
the fish outside Tasmanian waters, but
had had to bring his boat Into a Tas-
manian port because of the master’s ill-
ness. " He was acquitted on the ground
that the Tasmanian Fisheries Act of 1935
is confined in operation to the State’s
territorial waters, and that the crays were
taken lawfully. In a second case a Tas-
manian fisherman was charged with hav-
ing in his possession female crays having
spawn attached; the magistrate accepted
his evidence that they were taken out-
side territorial waters. Flinders Island
fishermen were not so fortunate; their
plea that they had obtained their fish
outside territorial waters was discounted
by police evidence to the contrary. Two
Victorian fishermen were fined for fish-
ing on the Continental Shelf outside Aus-
tralian territorial waters without a licence
issued by the Commonwealth —the first to
be convicted in Australia under the Act.


PROPHECY AND ANALYSIS
TAuring the next few weeks
we shall be seeing a flush
of company-reports and chair-
men’s comments on the past
financial year. It would be
rash, in the circumstances, for
any prophet but the very-best-
informed to trust his - crystal-
ball at this juncture. Facts
will stand alongside prophecy
all too soon and make prophecy
in respect of any one concern
hardly worth the effort.
But this can be said: Even
after the figures are up there
will be ample time for inves-
tors to pick-out stocks show-
ing-up to advantage alongside
their fellows. Some investors,
probably very wisely, will con-
sider the market-level for front-
line stocks to be generally too
high, and will take a good deal
of tempting before investing.
But it is a fact that over the
past year the sharemarket has
put up the price for (to take
one example) Australian Gyp-
sum, Victor Electric Plaster
and Peninsular Plaster from
around 335. to 41s. (in each
case) ©n accounts that have
been available for very nearly
a year. The basis of recent
rises in these shares was open
for study as long ago as Sep-
tember last year.
It has been so in the case
of many other stocks. For the
past year investors have been,
seemingly leisurely, translating
tax - provision into relative
profit-earning and comparing
it with the profit claimed by
the company. Where tax-
provision has indicated a far
higher profit than that claimed
in the accounts rarely has the
market reacted immediately. It
has chewed the matter over for
months and has only gradually
taken cognisance, in the shape
of market price, of the evident
undisclosed profit-potential of
the undertaking.
So it has 'been with other
•pointers, good and bad. And
the old principle thus holds
good: that it is usually more
profitable, in the long-run, for
investors to be guided by a
cold, thorough analysis of the
accounts and circumstances of
a company than it is to rely on
market gossip and third-
hand “inside information.”
And usually there need be
The Bulletin, July 30, 1958
nothing precipitate about
accounts-analysis—usually the
market will wait at least a
month or two!
. Apart from the aspect of
analysis, in the near future, of
the accounts of companies suffi-
ciently provocative on the sur-
face to warrant deeper analysis,
it is already quite clear that
results of different types of
“What have they got that WE haven't got? Sales-tax!
Payroll-tax! Income-tax! Import-licences! Ulcers !”
companies may vary spectacu-
larly.
Pastoral companies and pas-
toral suppliers and agents haVe
mostly shown lower earnings
and have paid reduced
dividends. On the other hand,
already some manufacturing
companies have reported much
higher earnings. Among these
have been Tecnico and
Minster. A distributor of TV-
sets, H. G. Palmer (Consoli-
dated), Ltd., has hinted at
improved earnings.
' But, the very presence of the
“TV economy” in Australia
right now has had an effect
on many other industries. The
retail trade has been hit in
sectors outside its TV depart-
ments. People are “pinching”
in respect of food, clothing,
entertainment, etc., in order to
pay for TV-sets. In some parts
of Australia picture-theatres
have had to cut down their
showings from six days a week
to three days a week.
Overall production-figures in
the manufacturing industries
have been very well maintained,
however. Costs have been more
stable oyer the past year, but
competition in some industries
has grown keener be-
cause the considerable capital-
outlay over the past few years
is now being reflected in much
greater plant-capacity. De-
mand, in short, has not kept
step fully with, growing pro-
ductive capacity.
While the accounts for
1957-58 shortly to be pre-
sented will probably show a
variety of results and fortunes,
it seems likely that those for
the current year will be even
more striking in their varia-
tions. The drought of the past
year and the prevailing low
export-prices are likely to affect
1958-59 results more than they
influenced those for 1957-58.
Shares Up Again
"Institutional buying in a
sharemarket short of in-
dustrial equities has sent the
general level of share prices up
again in Australia.
Though the front-rankers
again lead the way, and show
unattractive yields, there is
considerable interest in less
prominent concerns that have
already announced better
results for the past year. Addi-
tionally there is strong
support for concerns of which
something special is expected
before long. Among these are
shares in J. and A. Brown
Abermain-Seaham Collieries,
which went to the record level
of 30s.
Though there has recently
been some improvement in the
London price of lead, spelter
and copper, and slightly higher v
quotes for other raw materials,
there has been no really signi-
ficant advance m prices for
raw materials since thb crisis
developed in the Middle East.
Waltons-Sears Credit Corp.
.■poLLowiNG the link-up with
A Sears, Roebuck, of the
U.S.A., in 1955, Waltons-Sears,
Ltd., of Sydney, has made
rapid progress. Going back a
little further, shareholders’
funds have increased from
£1,040.372 in 1950 to £6,101,826
in 1957. Of this. Sears, Roebuck
have contributed to the tune of
$4,200,000, and are committed
to put-up a further $1,600,000
by 1960.
Registration in Canberra of
Waltons-Sears Credit Corpora-
tion, Ltd., has now taken place.
Waltons-Sears, Ltd., has sub-
scribed in cash for £2,000,000
of ordinary capital in the new
co.
Primary object of Waltons-
Sears Credit Corp. is to buy
instalment-debts and- accounts
from other cos. of the Waltons-
Sears group, initially, accounts
aggregatings £2,186,553 have
been acquired.
Scope for the new .Credit
Corp. is indicated by the
growth' of the Waltons-Sears
business. Amounts owing by
customers as at June 30, 1958,
exceeded £l3 million. The
group operates 47 stores in the
eastern States and has an Aus-
tralia-wide mail-order business.
Waltons-Sears Credit Corp.
is patterned on Sears, Roe-
buck Acceptance Corp. of the
U.S.A. Incorporated in 1956,
this co. assists in financing the
business of Sears, Roebuck and
Co., the world’s largest retail
merchandiser.
To obtain further funds,
Waltons-Sears Credit Corp. is
making an issue of first-mort-
gage debenture-stock, under-
written to the extent of £1
million by J. B. Were and Son.
The co. has the right to retain
over-subscriptions within the
borrowing limits imposed by
the trust deed.
Waltons-Sears, Ltd., the
parent co., guarantees the de-
benture-stock of the Credit
Corp. both as to interest and
principal. Interest rates offered
are:
(> years, 7 3 p.c. ; 4 years, 7 p.c.;
3 years, (>4 p.c.; 2 years, 6 j».c. ;
18 months, &} p,c. ; 12 months,
5} 'p:c.; 9 months. 5 p.c.; 6
months, 4i p.c.; 3 months, 3 : t p.e.
On the basis of income to be
derived from discounting
charges, and allowing for the
employment of the £2 million


THE “WILD CAT’*
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. .. .. 2/,-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
The Bulletin, July 30, 1958
G
Wm
m
£50,000
ISSUE OF
ST MORTGAGE
D
E
I
R
9
0
K
EACH £lOO DEBENTURE IS
BACKED BY£4lO IN ASSETS.
Application forms and prospectus are
obtainable from any branch of the
Bank of N.S.W., any member of the
Sydney or Newcastle Stock Exchanges,
or the offices of the Company at Ist
Floor, Park House, 15 Park St., Sydney,
or Ist Floor, Morton House, 5 Union
Street; Newcastle West.
Phone: Sydney BM 6945 (4 lines) or
Newcastle B 4601 (8 lines)
CHECK THESE
HIGH RETURNS !
m
m
5 TO 10
YEARS
D
KjM
D
Dll D
0
0
PARK HOUSE
15 PARK ST,
SYDNEY
and at
MORTON HOUSE,
5 UNION STREET,
, NEWCASTLE WEST
UNDERWRITERS:
F. S. Scorer & Co.
T. & (i. Bonding,
Hunter St.. Newcastle
BANKERS TO
ISSUE:
Bank of N.S.W.—
All Branches
TRUSTEES:
Bankers and Traders
Insurance Co., Ltd ,
J. 31-133 Pitt St.. Sydney
CLIP
OUT
AND
MAIL
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LTD.,
IS Park St.. Sydney or 5 Union St., Newcastle West
Please send me a copy of Prospectus without obligation.
NAME
ADDRESS
I i/'2
of capital subscribed by
Waltons-Sears Ltd., the net
profit before tax is estimated at
£120,000 a year. This shows
a substantial cover over the
maximum annual interest
charge of £69,172 which would
be payable on £1 million of
debenture stock if two-thirds
is for the longer term-period
at 7-} p.c. and a third of short-
term stock at a maximum rate
of p.c. Tangible .assets
backing for each £lOO of
debenture-stock is estimated at
£295. The guarantee by
W'altons-Sears gives additional
security.
Net tangible assets of the
Waltons-Sears group at Jan.
31, 1958, totalled £5,691,044.
With their mortgage rights
(as distinct from unsecured
notes) and the parent co.
guarantee the debentures should
prove attractive to investors in
fixed-interest securities.
History and Natural Gas
£Froni X,. Owen]
Touring Triassic times, except
for limited periods in
restricted areas, dry land
existed throughout and beyond
the present confines of the exist-
ing Australian continent. In
the west this dry-land epoch
was essentially one of erosion
and non-deposition ; in the
east it was also, in the
main, a time of erosion,
but some continental deposits
—of which the Hawkesbury
Sandstone is a notable example
—were formed.
Both the erosion and deposi-
tion resulted in the shifting of
enormous masses of material
from one point to another, and
this shift brought in its train
both reductiohs in the pressure
acting on the earth's crust,
where erosion had occurred,
and increases where deposition
took place, thus giving rise to
strains which had to be relieved.
The relief, in general, was
accomplished by the rise ami
fall (isostatic adjustment) of
parts of the crust, and these
rises and falls normally
occurred along tension faults,
the movement often being
accompanied by gentle warp
ing ; these conditions were, of
course, highly favorable to the
migration and escape of any
oil and gas entrapped in the
underlying strata.
Of the oil which reached the.
surface, only a Small fraction
would be retained in the
alluvial sands and clays, the
rest being dispersed and lost;
even more rarely a lens of
sand in clay trapped some gas,
the bulk of which escaped into
the atmosphere.
It thus happens that the
search for oil and gas on the
Australian mainland is con-
fined, mostly, to pre-Triassic
strata. In this search a most
important job is the tracing of
the paths along which the
migration of oil and gas
occurred.
THE TV INDUSTRY
Yl/Tm evidence already that
* * Admiral of Australia, Ltd.,
is doing exceptionally well, and
that Tecnico (with its Pye
affiliations) has made a spec-
tacular recovery to a point of
high profit-earning, it can
be accepted that a proportion
of- the Australian manufac-
turers of television equipment
are now making very good
profits.
It is probable that the big
fish will do better than the
small fish, and that some of
the latter won't do well at all ;
but we shall undoubtedly see
some good results from com-
panies which have not yet
presented their latest accounts,
Among these, at a guess, Elec-
tronic Industries, A.W.A.,
DUcon and E.M.I. would be
likely to figure,
Up to April last 345,000
TV-sets had been produced in
Australia, with output for the
month of April at (he record
level of 26,810 sets,
According to a survey made


Effect all your Insurances with
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
insurance Company Limited
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
'Phone: BWIOII. BW 1012. BW 49?1
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
All types of General Insurance
Directors s
STRUAN ROBERTSON (Chairman)
S. E. A. STIRLING. JAMES H. STEPHENSON.
R. G. GALE. RAYMOND S. GOWARD, C.B.E.
A. C. MAITLAND O. S. PETTERSEN,
Managing Director Manager
Branches and Agencies in all States.
•
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
by the Industries Division of
the Department of Trade, it is
possible that the demand for
sets in 1958 will exceed 250,000,
and by 1959 could be running
at the rate of 300,000 sets a
year ; “but even at this level
it would be still within the
capacity of the industry.”
Now Well Established
In its, survey the Department
of Trade points-out that the
manufacture in Australia of
TV-receivers is a well-estab-
lished industry consisting of
20 manufacturers who employ
between them 5000 to
6000 persons, and who are
supported by about 18 firms
manufacturing component-
parts. ' ' *
Some ‘ of the set-manufac-
turers produce component-
parts, including picture-tubes,
for the trade generally as well
as for their own use, and,
although in the early stages of
the industry's development
sets were produced with a large
imported content, some sets
now produced are nearly 100
p.c. Australian- manufacture.
Of the total of approximately
40 firms engaged in the in-
dustry, five make picture-
tubes.
Sets range from Min. to
24in. screen-size in both
table-and console models.
The telecasting of TV-
programmes began in Sydney-
on October 27, 1956; manu-
facture of sets had started in
the early months of that year.
There are now three trans-
mitting-stations operating in
N.S.W. and three in Victoria.
These stations serve areas with
well over one-million homes,
and plans are in hand to estab-
lish stations in Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth and Hobart,
which will add to the market
for receivers.
The following firms make
TV-sets:
NEW sbUTH WALES: Admiral
of Australia (Pty.), Ltd.; Amal-
gamated Wireless (Australasia),'
Ltd.; E.M-I. (Australia) Pty., Ltd.;
Eleotrosound Pty., Ltd.; Ediswun
Ekeo (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.; Eerris
Rros. Pt.v., Ltd.; K.G.H- Pty., Ltd..;
Kriesler Australasia Pty., Ltd.;
Southern Cross Radio Television
Pty., Ltd.; Standard Telephones
and Cables Pty., Ltd.; Stromberg-
Carlson (Australasia) Pty., Ltd-;
Teenieo, Ltd.; Pope Electronics
Pty-, Ltd.
VICTORIA: Classic Radio and
Television Pty., Ltd.; Electronic
Industries, Ltd.; A. G. Healing,
I.td.; A. W. Jackson Industries
Pt.v-, Etd.; Thorn Electrical Indus-
tries Australia Pty., Ltd.
SOI Til AUSTRALIA: Philips
Electrical Industries Pty., Ltd.;
Hush Simpson, Ltd.
Many firms in the industry
are associated with leading
overseas manufacturers of TV-
sets. Through these associ-
ations, the Australian industry
has been able to achieve a high
level of technical efficiency, and
has gained the benefit of recent
technical advances.
Expanding Output
In the early stages of produc-
tion, manufacturers were in-
clined to overestimate their
ability to produce in volume,
and for some time 'Output
figures lagged. However, early
difficulties were eventually
overcome, as April’s record
production-figures show.
Assuming that the current
rate of demand continues, pro-
duction will exceed 250,000 sets
for this year. With 20
firms having a combined
capacity of approximately
400,000 sets a year, the industry ■
can cope with all reasonable
demand expectations.
With the increasing volume
of output, the cost of produc-
ing TV-sets is being reduced.
This trend should continue,
particularly as the cost of
component-parts probably will
also be reduced as local manu-
facture expands. -
Prices of Sets
Manufacturers are bringing
out new models which are
slightly cheaper than those sold
in 1957, but substantial reduc-
tions in price seem unlikely in
the near future.
In a little less than two years
the television industry has
firmly established itself in Aus-
tralia, the Department of Trade
comments. Production and
demand are at high levels, and,
although the industry is keenly
competitive, most manufac-
turers are confident of main-
taining production at satisfac-
tory levels.
It will be some years before
markets in New South Wales
and Victpria reach saturation-
point, and further new markets
are in prospect with the coming
installation of transmitting-
stations in Queensland and
South Australia.
The Olympic Games in Mel-
bourne in 1956 gave an impetus
to demand, and, despite its
smaller population, demand
developed more rapidly in
Victoria than in N.S.W. How-
ever, since October, 1957,
N.S.W. has beaten Victoria in
sales and is now the larger
market of the two. Licences to
operate new TV-receivers issued
by the P.M.G.'s Department
from October, 1957, to March,
1958, totalled approximately
55,000 for N.S.W. and 44,000
for Victoria.
Demand overall rose from
approximately 7000 sets in
December, 1956, to a peak of
between 23,000 and 25,000 in
September, 1957, then fell to
between 12,000 and 16,000 in
December. Demand, particu-
larly in N.S.W., increased at a
very rapid rate in January,
1958, and is now overall about
22,000 sets a month. It is
expected to maintain this level
for some months yet.
The decline in demand in the
latter months of 1957 was
more-or-less seasonal and ex-
pected by the industry. How-
ever, the sudden surge in sales
in the early months of 1958 was
quite unexpected.
Towards the end of 1957
many _ manufacturers had
sizeable stocks, and, with the
large number of retailers (there
are approximately 2000 in
N.S.W. and Victoria com-
bined), keen competition
developed. Substantial dis-
counts were offered in the
form of generous trade-in
allowances; long terms were
granted, extending over four
years with low .interest-rates,
and with no deposits required.
Intensive advertising was also
undertaken. This drive,.com
bined with the Queen Mother’s
visit and the Davis Cup, is.
believed to have set-off the
present boo'm in sales.
21in. Favored
It was thought that the
greatest demand would be for
17ih.-screen sets, and this was
the case originally, but since
June, 1957, the demand has
been increasingly in favor of
21 in.-screen sets, and now over
60 p.c. of all sets produced are
21 in.
A recent innovation has been
the introduction of 110°
cathode - ray picture - tubes,
which enables the depth of the
receiver-cabinet to be reduced
by about four finches. It is
too early to assess the popu-
larity of the shallower cabinets
on the market.
At first, most component-
parts and tubes were imported,
-and up to March. 1958. imports
exceeded £lB million in value,
but, as the industry develops,
manufacturers are looking in-
creasingly to local sources for
their supplies. Materials stocks
are adequate at present for
all purposes.




SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stags and Music
Heinze and Warfield
Its opera duties ended, the
Queensland Orchestra was
quickly back in harness for
one of its regular subscription-
concerts, this one conducted
by Sir Bernard Heinze. The
programme looked sombre on
paper, though it was much less
so on the night.
There was a short overture
by Arne which was attractive
enough to make its brevity a
pity, then the symphony by
Melbourne composer Dorian
Le Gallienne. This was music
of considerable power with
moments in the inner move-
ments of great beauty. There
are. no gum-leaves in Le
Gallienne’s score, which is very
much in the European tradi-
tion and rightly so. The first
movement has in it a little
of the angry flavor of some
of Vaughan Williams’s pre-war
music, and any audience willing
to suspend its disbelief in local
composers could hardly fail to
be swept along by it.
The composer suggested in
his cheerful programme-notes
that there is a good tune in
the last movement. There is,
but elsewhere there was more
atmosphere than phrases to
capture and hold the imagina-
tion.
Even to an admirer, a
Sibelius symphony may look
like providing a bleak ending
to a concert. But, once under
way, this old master of the
orchestra knows how to
entrance his listeners, a quality
he shares with Wagner. How-
ever much one may groan at
the length of what is to come,
the sound of the orchestra has
its .magical effect.
The Second Symphony is
always an effective closing
piece for a concert if the con-
ductor has its architecture
clear in his mind. The mutter-
ing of basses and bassoons in
the slow movement, the sudden
bursting out of brass and
woodwind, and the gradual
build-up of the climax of the
finale all need infinite care to
make them hang together. Sir
Bernard kept his orchestral
forces in hand with just enough
power in reserve, and main-
tained the music’s excitement
to the last bars.
Soloist William , Warfield
sang songs by Handel, Bach
and Mendelssohn. His voice
had the flexibility to go from
the serenity of “Come, Sweet
Death” to the robust “Good
Fellows Be Merry” without
any sense of strain. Occasion-
ally there is a hard edge to his
notes, but at his best his sing-
ing has the effect of prayer,
and his final aria from Mendels-
sohn’s “Saint Paul” was stirring
in its intensity.
D. J. M.
♦> ♦♦♦ ♦>
Barenboim
Barenboim’s Tuesday con-
cert at Sydney Town Hall con-
firmed one’s impression of his
three-sonata concert; he is a
pianist who has nothing to learn
but maturity; to watch his
hands in the Schumann Phan-
tasie in C, Op. 17, was a delight,
but the feeling of awe, as
from the reverberances of a
cathedral, was absent from his
playing of the Bach Chromatic
Fantasy and Fugue —it is not
so much a matter of strength
as of a power to feel which
the years bring, and of which
the artist is not necessarily
conscious.
The same might be said of
the first movement of the
Beethoven D Minor Sonata,
Op. 31, No. 2, with its sudden
changes, but coming away
from the concert one still heard
the fluid legato of the lovely
running tune from the second
movement, from the same
mysterious goldmine as the
“Fur Elise” tune. Neverthe-
less, the great moment of the
evening was the Chopin
Mazurka in D, Op. 33, No. 1 ;
the following Nocturne may
have tended more than it
should to put one to sleep, and
the A Flat Polonaise may have
been no better than it should
have been, but the Mazurka
was a fabulous exhibition of
how to make staccato chords
dance ; so precise, so perfect,
as to be hardly believable ; and
because it was done so well the
air of strain and bravura that
envelopes so many perform-
ances of Chopin dances
vanished, and there were only
the people dancing.
Having arranged one’s
opinion about Daniel Baren-
boim as one who would play
even Beethoven’s later works
well in time, one attended his
last Sydney concert on Satur-
day and heard as superb and
finished a performance of the
“This is his early Work."
Op. 11l as one is ever likely to
hear from him or anyone else;
the first movement a master-
piece of exposition, so that one
listened to it intently from the
first note to the last; the
arietta and variations as nobly
tragic and as richly varied as
the contrast of high and low
notes that governs the whole
work; the pianissimo chro-
matic variation, especially, a
fabulous bit of playing.
There were a couple of
Schubert Impromptus (142,
No. 2 and 90, No. 2) that had
passed through his imagination
and emerged as almost new
works ; a Sonata, Op. 46, No.
3, in which Kabalevsky trans-
lated old sonata material into
new idiom without saying any-
thing except how brilliant
young Mr. Barenboim could
be, a Fantasy-sonata, Op. 28,
by Mendelssohn —but it was no
use ; the Beethoven 111 was a
real: k. 0.; the theorising critic
spent the rest of the concert
wondering how to explain that
away. One can only imagine
that Barenboim will become
better than one can imagine.
❖' ❖ ❖
‘‘Carmen”
It is one of the curiosities
of Bizet’s opera, one of the
most popular in the repertoire,
that at its premiere in Paris
83 years ago it met with a
hurricane of abuse. The thing
was immoral, and —worse —
was Wagnerian! The cen-
tral character is now, of course,
one of its two attractions;
the other is Bizet’s wonderful
score, which includes some
orchestral effects of which
Wagner himself could have
been proud.
The Elizabethan Theatre
Trust was fortunate in having
Constance Shacklock for its
Sydney premiere. Here was a
complete Carmen—coquettish,
shallow and demanding ;
heartless, virile and fasci-
nating. Miss Shacklock
also raised a beautifully
rich and mellow contralto, suit-
ing the colors in her voice
admirably to the mood of
each song,
Raymond Nilsson, the Don
Jose of the piece, worked up
from modest emotional
beginnings to high-temperature
passions as his love and


NOTHING EQUALS
WARM RAY'S AMAZING EFFICIENCY!
k
r • TRIPLE PURPOSE
• SLOW COMBUSTION
• AIR CONDITIONING
HOME HEATER
NEW MODEL
has over 7,000 cu. ft.
heating: capacity,
equipped with a non-
jamming shaker
grate.
★ BURNS ANY SOLID
FUEL AND NEED
NEVER GO OUT.
* Beautifully enamelled
on solid cast iron, Model
lI.D, introduces a new mottled
CERAMIC GREY, a matching lint for the
contemporary or traditional home.
HAWAIIAN CREAM is also available.
i:
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray" ACTUALLY COSTS
NOTHING! Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
:
Installs in rooms
tvith or without
fireplaces.
Model No. 3
Super De Luxe
★ Large capacity
—Over 10,000
cu. ft.
★ Special large
firebox for
long burning
without atten-
tion.
★ Extra large
hotplate for
cooking.
The secret of Warmray’s efficiency is the
patented Heating Tubes (illustrated) which
are built into the firebox. The air in the
room passes through these tubes continu-
ously, thus maintaining an even, overall
warmth.
WORLD PATENTED
HEATING TUBES MAKE
THIS THE MOST
ECONOMICAL AND
BEST ROOM HEATER OF
THEM ALL, REGARDLESS
OF PRICE
m m
WARMRAY
HEATING TUBES
★ BEWARE OF IMITATIONS
Imitated?? Often!!
Equalled?? Never!!
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and
Hardware Merchants everywhere.
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams: “Warmray,” BL 2217.
If unobtainable locally, 'phone, write or call
for illustrated brochure and name of nearest
agents. VIM .,
jealousy mounted, and he
brought-off the death-scene
most convincingly.
Robert Simmons failed to
convey the impression that
Escamillo was either a devil
with the girls or an ace
puncturer of bulls ; and Joy
Mammen exuded ethereality
rather than earthy peasantry
as Micaela, but she sang her
“Air” with quite an air and
in excellent voice. Rosalind
Keene, as Frasquita (though
strictly this should be a
mezzo’s role), and Judith Staff,
as Mercedes, sang neatly and
assuredly in the card-reading
sequence. Murray Mardardy’s
Zuniga was authoritative and
well sung, and Desmond
Patterson and Gregory Demp-
sey smuggled songfully.
John Sumner’s production
made attractive use of vivid
color and singing movement
in both the cigarette-factory
scene and in Lilias Pastia’s
“wine-garden.”
Karl Rankl, in the Over-
ture, set his strings a-tremolo
and his brasses guardedly
menacing to give due warning
of impending tragedy ; in the
pastoral second intermezzo, in
which the flute dreams against
the background of pizzicato
strings, and in the short,
bustling introduction to the
fourth act, he and his forces
were at their best.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Under Milk Wood”
Jn Brisbane's Albert Hall,
against a fishing-village set and
in competition with hymn-
singing strains from the church
next-door, James Stevens, as
the Onlooker, softly intoned his
opening ritual: “To begin at
the beginning. .. .you can
hear the dew falling, and the
hushed town breathing” . . .
And from there the Twelfth
Night Theatre went a long way
towards establishing Dylan
Thomas’s vivid picture of a
Welsh town and its characters
moving through their night-day-
night cycle. A rich collection
of people: blind ex-seafarer
Captain Cat, alone in his
salted memories; Rev. Eli
Jenkins, happily longwinded
with his trite verses in praise
of the town ; Miss Polly
Garter in Llaregyb woods ;
Mr. Pugh, outwardly a
a mild schoolteacher, secretly
a wife-poisoner; Organ Morgan
(“Bach, and then Palestrina”)
and many another.
The thread of narration rests
heavily on the Onlooker: he
must have psychological in-
sight and sympathy with the
range of feelings of his sea-
crusted subjects, to say noth-
ing of ultra-clear diction. Mr.
Stevens, good as his rendition
was, occasionally tended to
become matter-of-fact and,
especially in the spot where the
schoolchildren cavort around
the stage when school finishes,
a little indistinct. But in
general it was a well-sustained
performance, rising to high
level in some passages.
As for the 40 or so others,
some necessarily “doubled.”
Ellis Chesney’s Captain Cat
was faintly disappointing,
James Buchanan’s Rev. Eli
Jenkins was appealing, Elaine
Cusack’s Polly Garter was
pretty as Polly, Mervyn Litt-
mann’s portrait of the bearded
busybodying postman, Willy
Nilly, was very funny, and
Leon Baird’s Lord Cut-glass,
the aristocratic relic obsessed
with clocks, almost stopped the
show.
Direction was by Joan
Whally, and the effective set
by Quentin Hole. Several
“cuts” were apparent: a
couple of Captain Cat’s richer
sayings suffered the blue-pencil
—regrettable ; and Mr. Waldo’s
lengthy soliloquy towards the
end was excised — commend-
able.
A. W.
Artbursts
Women Painters
The exhibition by some
Sydney women painters at the
Bissietta Gallery doesn't consist
of all the women painters in
the town, nor all the best
painters, nor the most experi-
mental, nor the most conserva-
tive ; and if it is going to con-
tinue in future years it needs
strengthening—by taking in ail
the best.
In the meantime there is a
pleasant enough lightness and
brightness prevailing practically
throughout the show, whether
from such traditional works as
the watercolors of Thea
Proctor and Enid Cambridge,
from Grace Cossington Smith’s
mosaics of color and G.
Morgason’s loosely - painted
flowers, or from the abstract
explosions of Sheila McDonald
and the abstract square-dances
of Dahl Codings.
There are a few murkier
items, but the only painting
with much genuine strength in
it is Jean Appleton’s “Cafe
Interior.”


J
♦
NO SINGLE RUM CAN MATCH IT!
RED JACK RUM
O
RED JACK
RUfW
£
BLENDED FROM QUEENSLAND’S
CHOICEST 7-YEAR-OLD
POT-STILL RUMS. NO “SINGLE”
RUM CAN MATCH IT
Specially blended by
John Dewar & Son* Ltd., Sydney and
Harboctle Brown * Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney
♦
r
DW37
Films
“ Delivered, sir?"
“Dunkirk”
This British-made M.-G.-M.
offering is something of a film
epic. A semi-documentary,
made with the co-operation of
the services, it has as its main
theme the political and mili-
tary events leading to the
crushing of the French and
Belgian armies and the falling-
back on Dunkirk of the
British forces, made necessary
by the collapse of their flanks
following those defections.
This the director, Leslie Nor-
man, develops with force and
clarity, rounding it out with
the stirring call for small
boats manned by civilians to
assist the R.N. in rescuing the
apparently doomed army,
caught on the open beach and
sand-dunes under the German
Stukas.
There are two incidental and
fictitious stories threaded into
the main narrative. One con-
cerns a corporal who leads a
small cut-off party through the
Nazi lines to the beach and
eventual safety. The other is
about a journalist and a
button-manufacturer —the first
stout-hearted and the other at
first fearful —whose lives be-
come entwined on the shell-
torn beach after they take their
private launches across the
Channel on rescue missions.
The scenes on the beach and
the sand-dunes of Dunkirk,
where thousands of men wait
and pray and swear and die
under the tumult of screaming
dive-bombers, are unforget-
table.
And director Norman weaves
into the general pattern some
ironic touches—such as com-
placent audiences laughing
at a film-cartoon of Hitler flee-
ing in terror before a brolly-
wielding Chamberlain.
John Mills is always con-
vincing as the humble little
Cockney corporal who “never
wanted the bloody stripes,” but
who, pushed into taking com-
mand when his officers and
n.c.o.s. are killed, gains in-
creasing authority and assur-
ance and emerges as one of
the many unsung heroes.
Bernard Lee is natural and
sincere as the humbug-hating
journalist who is sickened by
the ineptitude in high places
and by the examples of civilian
selfishness ; and Richard Atten-
borough’s self-centred manu-
facturer who eventually sees the
light is another solid portrayal.
At Sydney St. James.
+J+ <£♦
“Manhunt”
Here is a' Western of style
and character, telling a good
story clearly and with pace and
tension.
A young cattle - hand,
wrongly accused of murdering
the boss’s belligerent son, is
pursued by the implacably
vengeful father and his other
sons. There is a fine irony in
the varied fates which over-
take the pursuers. Don Murray,
as the hunted man, is likeable
and manly, and displays many
of the qualities that Gary
Cooper showed in his first
outdoor films. R. G. Arm-
strong exudes power and ruth-
lessness and bitterness as the
father.
At Sydney Plaza.
❖ ❖ ❖
‘‘The Story of Mankind”
This screen-version takes a
whole heap of liberties with
the Van Loon books. Sir
Cedric Hardwicke is Chief
Justice of a five-man Court of
Outer Space which has man-
kind on trial. Advocate for
the Spirit of Mankind, pro-
pounding his virtues and his
strengths, is Ronald Colman,
with Vincent Price as the Gent
One on the opposite side, repre-
senting the Devil. The speeches
of both—concise, forceful and
logical—ring convincingly ; but
elsewhere there is dreadful
hamming.
There is a huge cast, some
quite miscast—Virginia Mayo,
for instance, as a comically
dramatic Cleopatra; and
Agnes Morehead as a virago
of an Elizabeth melodramati-
cally spurning the Spanish Am-
bassador before the Armada.
Even Harpo Marx is co-opted
to depict how the early Puri-
tan businessmen put swifties
over the unlettered red savages
by getting Manhattan Island
for the cheapest song ever
sung.
At Sydney Esquire.


The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Tooth and Co., Ltd.
The big N.S.W. brewer, Tooth and Co.,
Ltd., pulled out a further £5 million
from under the carpet last term, and in
the annual report the board, never prone
to boast about profits of any kind,
described the operation, without referring
to any specific sum, in the following
terms:
The valuations in asset and reserve
accounts arc due to the directors having
transferred to reserve account amounts
provided in the past against certain assets;
by so doing, these assets appear in the
balance-sheet at a figure nearer their
present-day value.
The last time the co. placed previously
hidden reserves on show was in 1954,
when £3.9 million of “unexplained addi-
tions” appeared amongst shareholders’
funds, along with a £3-million surplus
on revaluation of fixed assets.
As last term’s net increase in fixed
assets was only £2.7 million and the
increase in reserves over £5 million,
shareholders may well glance at the
remaining three items on the asset-side
of the balance-sheet, note the 30 p.c.
jump in stocks, and decide, perhaps, that
the £2-million (or almost 60 p.c.) increase
in book-debts was possibly rather steep,
despite the “substantial” nature of loans
made to private hotel-proprietors. In
any case, the exact extent to which post-
war inflation is responsible for the
“variations” is by no means clear, but
it would seem that at least £2 million of
the fresh reserves could be labelled
“accumulated profits” and, as such, pro-
vide a pointer to the co.’s actual earning-
power.
The official recognition of reserves the
existence of which had already been
assumed by many investors made little
difference to quotes for Tooths’ f.-p. £1
ords., the scrip fetching 475. 6d. last week
(as against 48s. 6d. a year ago), to yield
buyers at that price £5 ss. 3d. per cent,
from a 12y p.c. div.
More than half (£5,241,422) of Tooth’s
£9,273,986 paid capital has come from
reserves, the most recent bonus-issue, a
liberal one-for-two handout in 1955,
coming 26 years after the previous gift,
which had followed the acquisition of
Resch’s, Ltd., in 1929. The co. has never
missed a div.; the div.-rate dropped from
16 p.c. to Ilf p.c. after the 1955 bonus,
rising from 12£ p.c. to 12i p.c. last term.
One of the largest brewers in Aus-
tralia, Tooth’s controls approximately
JOOO N.S.W. hotels (of which over 600
are owned by the co.) giving it a major
share of the trade in that State.
On a State-wide basis, production of
beer in N.S.W. more than doubled over
the eight years to June 30, 1956, and,
after a small slip'in 1957, figures cover-
ing the last financial year will almost
certainly show a slightly higher output
than the hitherto record production of
1955-56. The fact that Tooth’s financed
the sizeable capital-outlay (on plant, etc.)
necessary over the past decade, to secure
its share of the fast-expanding market,
without calling on shareholders and with
a minimum of outside assistance, gives
some idea of the co.’s financial strength.
The last request for additional share-
capital went out over 20 years ago.
The rivalry between clubs and pubs
has, no doubt, affected hotel earnings,
but, as far as can be seen from the
condensed accounts handed out by the
co., Tooth's continued to prosper last
term. Turnover for the year (to March
31) isn’t disclosed, but consumer-reaction
to the steep increase in beer prices arising
from the 1956 “little” Budget appears to
have weakened, somewhat, under the
influence of a long, dry summer. After
making “adequate” provision in respect
of assets “subject to fluctuation,” allow-
ing £790,019 (up £58,420) for deprecia-
tion of plant, and providing an unspeci-
fied amount for taxation, the board
admits to a net profit of £1,278,411, or
£39,447 above the figure claimed for the
previous term:
Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1953.. 1.013.739 15jp.c.= 958,312 }.. 107 . ...» Q „,
Employees’ fund, £10,000.. j
Assets revaluation res.; £3,091,329 7,229,264
Unexplained additions, £3,987,390.. 11,216,654
1954.. 076 16 p.c. = 989,225 \ OQ o -o';
Employees fund. £10,000.. j
Reserve capitalised, £3,091,329 .. 8,201,176
19a.j.D,180,909 1 lip c.=1,066,008 j 104 401 a,305,577
Employees tund, £lO,OOO .. j
Mar.,
1956* G 19.361 12p.c.= 556,439 1 57922 S. 363,499
Employees tund, £oooo . )
1907.. 1,238,964 12 ip.c.=1,136,064 1 92 999 5.456,399
Employees tund, £ 10,000 .. )
Provisions w/back, etc., £5,038,219 13.494,618
1958 1,278,4U12 l5B 248 J n0)163 13 , C 04,78i
Employees tund, 10,000 )
* Six months only, div. at rate p.a.
As usual, the div.-rate (up } p.c. at
12£ p.c.) called for the bulk of the
declared profit, the £1,278,411 represent-
ing 13.7 p.c. on paid capital, compared
with an average earning-rate of 13.1 p.c.
over the three preceding terms.
Not all of the £2,767,193 added to
the book-value of fixed assets during the
yeffr came from writing-back provisions,
for two new bottling-units were installed
at the Kent Brewery last term, additional
plant put to work at the Waverley
Brewery, four new hotels completed and
22 “major remodelling-jobs” carried out
on other hotel properties. The sustained
capital-outlay further depleted holdings
of cash and bonds, a drop of £315,105
(to £185,314), bringing the total reduc-
tion in this account since the end of the
1951 term to £5,018,986.
At the same time the overdraft was cut
by £354,027, but, while finances are
obviously in a far less liquid state than
they were a few years ago, the actual
position is obscured by —among other
things—a failure to disclose the nature
of liabilities and provisions aggregated
under the heading of creditors. Still, the
co. does manage to stretch a point and
reveal that more of these liabilities is
secured:
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £9,273,986 £9,273.986 £9,273,986
Reserves .. 8,363,499 8,456,399 13,604,781
Overdraft .. 393,900 812,975 458,948
Creditors .. 5,668,093 6,136,727 6,297,793
Employees’ fund 140,836 153,167 160,906
Final div. . . 556,439 579,624 579,624
£24,397,353 £25,412,878 £30,382,038
Freeholds and
plant . . 18,002,613 19,968,787 22,735,980
Stocks 1,402,985 1,434,834 1,862,781
Debtors . . 3,424,866 3,508,838 5,597,963
Consols, cash, etc. 1,566,889 500,419 185,314
£24,397,353 £25,412,878 £30,382,038
At £13,604,781, reserves exceed paid
capital by £4,330,795, each f.-p. £1 ord.
enjoying a net tangible asset backing of
495. 4d.
The Australian thirst for beer is un-
likely to disappear overnight, even if the
hoped-for reduction in excise-duty isn’t
included in the forthcoming Federal
Budget, and, with the growth of licensed
clubs, the co. is more likely to be con-
cerned about a falling-off in the income
from hotel-leases. Still,
One often wonders if what maltsters tell,
Is half so precious as the stuff they hide!
Draffin Everhot, Ltd. (Vic.)
HThis well-dug-in fabricator punches-
out a variety of domestic hot-water
systems, slow-combustion ranges, etc.,
catering for the needs of an eager Aus-
tralia-wide market from its four plants in
and around Melbourne.
And it’s stacking it on edge. Since the
public got a foot into the business nine
or so years ago, shareholders have been
able to spend their uniformly 10 p.c.
divvies in advance. In the last three
returns cover for the distribution has
been more than threefold.
Last year’s trifling setback was the
first on record :
Parent and Subsidiary.
To Re- Re-
Mar. Profit. , Dividends —serves, serves.f
34£ £ £ £
1951 .. 17,321 10 p.c. = 3.000* 14,321 41,291
Unexplained reduction, £3613 . . 37,678
1902 .. 18,172/ 10 p.c. = 9,000 9,172 46,850
Share-issue exps. written off, £617 . . 46,233
1953 .. 18,348 10 p.c. = 9,000 9,348 55,581
Unexplained addition, £6549 . . 62,130
1954 .. 24,185 10 p.c. = 11,250 12,935 75,065
Long-service leave provision, £4000.. 71,065
Share-issue exps. written off, £5OO .. 70,565
1955 .. 37,627 10 p.c. = 12,500 25,127 95,693
Unexplained addition, £1425 .. .. 97,118
1956 .. 34,467 10 p.c. = 15,000 19,467 116,585
Tax overprovided, £636 .. .. 117,221
1957 .. 47,440 10 p.c. = 15,000 32,440 149,661
Tax overprovided, £2094 .. .. 151,755
1958 .. 45,685 10 p.c. = 15,000 30,685 182,440
* Four months only. t Subject to intangibles,
£44,541 at March 31, 1958.
But to arrive at the figure shown for
consolidated taxable profit, down by
£1755 to £79,685, the depreciation and
amortisation charge against earnings was
lifted from £13,330 to £21,355, while
leaseholds, plant and vehicles appear in
the books at £86,967 (£89,384 in 1957).
Net profit was also £1755 lower at
£45,685, following an unchanged provi-
sion of £34,000 for company-tax, and
since there is only one operating sub-
sidiary the drift in earnings was obviously
more apparent than real.
Chairman A. R. Draffin, reporting on
the board’s stewardship, is somewhat
equivocal as to the trend of sales —“the
turnover for the first nine months of the


year was higher than the corresponding
period of the previous year, but the full
benefit of this was counteracted by a drop
in turnover for the last three months,
caused particularly by a falling-off in
rural areas.”
In any case, visible earning-power
hardly suffered, and the 30.4 p.c. shown
last year on an all-ord. capital compares
very well with average returns of 31.6
23, 30.1, 21.5, 20.4 and 20.2 p.c. back
to 1952, the first full-year term.
Results in latter years are all the more
meritorious, since all hasn’t been plain
sailing for Draffin’s. The Victorian
S.E.C.’s curb on electric hot-water
systems has put the gyves on this aspect
of the business locally, although there
remains here a potential for future
exploitation. The primary producer’s
income-cuts have been causing some con-
cern, but a widening of the Everhot
range of slow-combustion kitchen-units
to suit the lower incomes is expected to
restore rural turnover.
Business generally seems to be on the
upgrade, particularly in N. S. Wales. First
steps have been made toward the con-
struction of a new factory at Fishermen's
Bend, Victoria, and the N.S.W. branch,
opened a year ago, is to be expanded.
The balance-sheet discloses a trim
financial structure, but forthcoming build-
ing commitments may preclude share-
holders’ reaping any immediate benefits:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957. 1958.
Taid capital .. £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Reserves . . . . 116,585 149,601 182,440
Mortgages . . 57.015 53,743 50,414
Creditors, etc. .. 148,878 159,628 } ..
Long-service leave 4,400 5.400 J °
Tax provision . . 36.000 46.000 44,000
Dividends .. 15,000 15,000 15,000
£527,878 £579,432 £595,418
Freeholds .. 89,032 80,888 99.763
Leaseholds .. 19,605 21,983 21.817
Plant, etc. .. 63.315 67,401 65.150
Stock .. .. 152,993 161,121 174,557
Debtors .. .. 135,372 160,187 148,436
Cash, etc. .. 23,236 34.606 41.154
Intangibles . . 44,325 44,246 44,541
£527,878 £579,432 £595,41S
Outsiders have staked a £262,978 claim
as against the £287,899 constituting share-
holders’ equity. Working - capital,
£151,583, including as it does £41,154 of
cash or near-cash looks adequate and
flexible, the ratio of current assets to
immediate liabilities being 1.7:1. Thus
there is apparently no pressing need for
additional share-capital at this stage,
despite a relatively high proportion of
outside money, assuming a prolation of
the present rate of reserve-building.
After incorporation in December,
1950, Draffin Everhot took over the whole
of the share-capital of Draffin Bros. Pty.
for a consideration consisting of £5OOO
in cash and 110,000 10s. ords. About the
same time 70,000 ords. were offered to
the public at par, and there have been
two par issues since, in 1953 (one-for-
four) and 1954 (one-for-jthree), bringing
paid-up capital to its present £150,000.
Investor-interest in the scrip seems to
have sharpened considerably. Currently
priced at 18s. 6d., the 10s. ords. yield 5.4
p.c., and have a comfortable backstop in
the shape of 19s. 2d. of net tangible assets
each.
Motors, Ltd,
As far as most new-car distributors are
concerned, the golden era of post-
war trading petered-out two years ago
with the steep increases in rates of sales-
tax, and although new-car sales are
climbing back towards the peak level
from which they so abruptly fell in
1956, the intense competition prevailing
in the new-car market shows no signs
of abating.
Motors, Ltd., and its subsidiary, Kings-
way, Ltd., hold South Australian fran-
chises (including Broken Hill) for the
cars, commercial-vehicles and tractors
turned-out by the Nuffield division of
the British Motor Corporation. These
cover Riley, Wolseley, M.G. and —the
chief money-spinner—Morris vehicles.
The co. also distributes Rolls-Royce,
Bentley, Hudson and Rambler cars.
A second offshoot, Motorway Service
and Parts, Ltd., undertakes the repair and
servicing of vehicles, while the parent
co.’s interests extend to the operation
of a fleet of self-drive cars and utilities
and the sale of second-hand cars and
replacement-parts.
An indifferent performer in pre-war
years, Motors, Ltd., was incorporated in
1911, the scrip appearing on Adelaide
’Change lists 14 years later. Luxuriating
in the boom conditions which came wun
the revival of the new-car trade in 1948,
the co. had pushed reserves past paid
capital and the div.-rate to 37y p.c. by
the end of the 1951 term. Held at
30 p.c. for the next three years, the
div.-rate rose to 32i p.c. in 1955 before
falling to 25 p.c. in 1956 and 15 p.c. in
the following year. A two-for-five par
issue in 1955 lifted paid capital, all in
ords., to £140,000.
The parent co.’s accounts show a sub-
stantial recovery in earnings last term
(to April 30), but an unusually large div.
from Kingsway, Ltd., which followed the
acquisition of minority shareholdings in
that co. and was partly responsible for
the improvement in earnings, doesn’t
appear to have come from current
profits. Of the total div. (£29,130)
received from Kingsway £16,631 was used
to writeroff the premium paid on the
minority shareholders’ scrip and the
balance credited to the p.-and-l. account.
Nevertheless, excluding divs. from sub-
sidiaries, the parent earned an extra
£6785 (£22,815) on its own account, the
net £14,100 (up £8562) in divs. taking
net profit to £36,915, a leap of £15,347
over the year. Before arriving at the
higher figure £16,000 (up £2500) was pro-
vided for taxation and £11,288 (up
£2034) for depreciation :
, Dividends v
To Re- Re-
April, Profit. r Dividends > serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £39SI -. .. 268.219
1954 75,!u4 30 p.c. = 30,000 J 4O 174 30 5,393
To start fund, £o4oo . . )
Tax underprovided, £28,519 .. •• 279,874
1955. . 8.),187 322 p.c. = 32,000 \ on qiq r^n
To staff fund, £13,022 .. 1 819,530
1956.. 55.981 25 p.c. = 31,667 ( yi o-o
To slaff fund, £2500 ..J
1957.. 21,568 15 p.c. = 21,000 568 341,921
1958.. 36,915 15 p.c. = 21,000 j l4 415 §56,336
To staff fund, £l5OOO .. S
The 15 p.c. div. was comfortably
covered, the earnings representing 24.9
p.c. on paid capital, as against 15.4, 40,
85.2 and 75.6 p.c. back to 1954.
With reserves approximately 2\ times
share-capital and current assets almost
double liabilities and provisions, the
financial structure is particularly strong,
but movements within this framework
last term weren’t altogether encouraging,
a 19 p.c. increase in stocks being accom-
panied by a 24 p.c. slip in book-debts:
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £140,000 £140,000 £140.000
Reserves .. 341,353 341,921 356,336
Overdraft .. 70,189 63,183
Creditors and de-
posits .. 92,492 53,194 52,508
Tax provision .. 58,160 14,426 16,i67
Other provisions .. 6,134 3,153 3,020
Staff funds, etc. .. 2,500 1.500
Final divs. .. 17,500 10,500 10,500
£658,139 £633,383 £043,820
Land, buildings .. 225,435 236,261' 245,537
Plant .. .. 36,285 62,791 68,813
Shares subsid. .. 30,766 57,631 41,000
Stocks, etc. .. 248,258 181.736 216,698
Debtors .. .. 92,955 94,964 71,772
Cash .. 24,440
£058,139 £633,353 £643,820
Fixed assets (up £15,298) are shown at
cost, less depreciation, and are said to
be worth considerably more than their
book-values.
The development of new “Australian”
cars by both B.M.C. and Ford Motor
Co. is reported to be well advanced, and
the advent of these vehicles may bring
some changes in the pattern of motor-
vehicle sales. Meanwhile the recent
release of two new B.M.C. models
(Morris Major and Wolseley 1500) should
help the co. in the current term, but
while a reduction in the rates of sales-
tax on motor-cars in next month’s
Federal Budget could stimulate sales, it
would appear over-optimistic to expect
any marked improvement in earnings
this year.
The parent’s accounts show a net
tangible asset backing of 17s. 9d. for
each f.-p. ss. ord, the scrip selling recently
at Bs. lOd. to return £8 9s. lOd. p.c.
from a 15 p.c. distribution.
Wattle Gaily Gold Mines, N.L.
In a special report this month to share-
holders in Wattle Gully Gold Mines,
N.L., the managing-director (G. W.
Vo well stated that there was sufficient
payable ore in sight at the mine
(Chewton, Vic.) to maintain production
at the present rate of output for over
three years.
No estimate is given of the quantity
of reserves which may be developed
during that period, but, according to Mr.
Vowell, “having regard to the history
of the mine, the reasonable anticipation
must be that it would not be inconsider-
able.”
The erection of a modern milling-
plant, now under consideration by the
board, would improve recoveries and
reduce labour costs, but the saving
would “not be as huge as many people
anticipate.” At a 60,000-ton throughput
(the co. treated 54,295 tons of ore in
the 52 weeks to June 14 last) the extra
recovery of \ dwt. per ton would bring
in an additional £24,000. Mine-revenue
was approximately £330,000 in 1956-57.
The report was issued following the
receipt by shareholders of a request for
their proxies from a member of the co.
The board has advised shareholders to
take no action in the matter.


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many year* to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Campetdown
Agents for
Rapid MaßnrtlinK Machines,
Ccorjfe Ellison Switch Gear,
pt„ Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc
A WIDE RANGE
OF LIFE ASSURANCE
& PERSONAL ACCIDENT
6c SICKNESS POLICIES
to meet the needs of all sections
of Australia’s expanding population
AUSTRALIAN
= METROPOLITAN LIFE =
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Qld., 1895)
HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS: E. W. Robinson, Esq.
(Chairman), Col. R. S. Goward, C.8.E.,
P. H. Phillips, Esq., T. Keith Smith, Esq.,
C. W. Rothe, Esq., S. J. Gandon, Esq.
Gen. Manager: W. J. Cooksey, B.Sc., F.F.A.
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of you.' Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant super-
vision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
Id Spring Street, SYDNEY - BIT 311-1
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
Consolidated Zinc
Corp., Ltd.
'T'he fortunes of the U.K.-
registered Consolidated
Zinc Corp. are largely those of
the base-metals market, and,
despite the co.’s numerous and
varied interests, are likely to
remain so for many years yet.
Aluminium may one day
rival lead and zinc as a major
source of income, and, through
Commonwealth Aluminium
Corp. Pty., the co. is pushing
ahead with the investigation of
the huge bauxite deposits at
Weipa and Gove (N.T.),
but the board has repeatedly
emphasised the fact that the
bauxite project “is essentially
a long-term one.”
Under an agreement with the
Queensland Government, Com-
monwealth Aluminium (in
which Consolidated Zinc will
be joined by British Aluminium
Co.) has undertaken to establish
an alumina-plant in Queensland
“as soon as practicable,” the
production of aluminium
metal remaining as the co.'s
ultimate objective. A cheap
and abundant supply of
electric-power is essential for
the success of the venture, and
in this connection a five-year
option has been secured over
the Blair Athol (Q.) coalfield,
while New Guinea Resources
Prospecting Co. Pty. (jointly-
owned by Consolidated Zinc
and British Aluminium) has
been surveying areas in New
Guinea suitable for the erection
of hydroelectric power-stations.
Formed in 1949 to consoli-
date the interests of Zinc Corp.,
Ltd. (U.K.), Consolidated Zinc
owns the largest silver-lead-
zinc mine on the Broken Hill
field and a 32 p.c. sharehold-
ing in the second-largest pro-
ducer, New Broken Hill Con-
solidated, Ltd. Other Aus-
tralian subsidiaries and associ-
ates include:
Sulphide Corp. Pty., manufac-
turer of sulphuric acid and super-
phosphate. (Wholly owned.)
Titanium and Zirconium Indus-
tries Pty., beach-miner. (Wholly
owned.)
Territory Enterprises Pty.,
manager of the Rum Jungle
uranium mine and plant for the
Commonwealth Government.
(Wholly owned.)
Heron’s Creek Timber Mills
Pty., sawmiller, supplying timber
to the Barrier mines. (60 p.c.
owned.)
Interstate Oil, Ltd., oil-
prospector with a one-third interest
in Frome-Broken Hill Co. Pty.
(51 p.c. owned.)
Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., lead smelter and
refiner, manufacturer of sulphuric
acid, etc. The co. treats practically
all of the lead concentrates pro-
duced by the Barrier mines.
(50 p.c. owned.)
Most of the zinc concentrates
produced by Zinc Corp. and
New B.H. are sent to the prin-
cipal English subsidiary, Im-
perial Smelting Corp., which
operates a number of zinc
smelters, roasters and sul-
phuric-acid plants in the U.K.
The string of subsidiaries in
that country covers the manu-
facture of zinc alloys and pig-
ments, fluorine and barium
products and various industrial
chemicals. A 31 p.c. sharehold-
ing in British Titan Products
gives the group a second and
substantial stake in the
titanium-dioxide industry.
Of the £16,311,936 paid
capital, £7,581,340 is in 4| p.c.
prefs., the high proportion of
relatively cheap pref. money
helping to strengthen the earn-
ing rate of ord. capital. The
ord. div.-rate has averaged 18.1
p.c. since formation of the
parent co., but the immediate
return is reduced by the de-
duction from divs. of U.K. tax
at the rate of Bs. 6d. in the £.
(AM figures are in sterling.)
Earnings won in the U.K.
were somewhat lower last term
(to Dec. 31), but the Sulphide
Corp. turned in a higher profit
and there was a “satisfactory”
return from Titanium and
Zirconium. However, the slump
in lead and zinc prices easily
outweighed a reduction in
mining-costs, and, despite a
substantial improvement in
production, lead-zinc mining
proved a far less profitable
proposition than in the two
preceding terms.
Group “trading” profit fell
by £1,789,129 to £4,461,194,
and, although there was an
extra £84,214 of investment
income, etc. (£1.266,823), it
was the lower N.S.W. mining-
rovalties (down £717,347 at
£304,186) and smaller pro-
visions for profit- and income-
tax (down £808,212 at
£2,244,127) that cushioned the
impact of falling metal-priccs
on group earnings. Consoli-
dated accounts show net profit
only £274,397 lower at
£1,769,986:
Consolidated Zinc and Subsidiaries.
(After eliminating outside interests),
(Aii amounts in sterling.)
r
Dee.,Profit. p.c! 18J p.c.* serves.!
19 - 4 _ £ £ £ £
2,383,378 110,796 852,597 10,062,165
Tax overpr’vided, £42,320 10,104,485
Profit sale assets, £7757 10,112,242
W/o subsidiaries’ assets,
1955 £ 023,596 '99s pi,' 9,188 > C46
2,344,928 196,167 1,129,521 10,207.886
Capital profit, £20,313 .. 10,228,199
lax oveip’vided, £113,874 10,342,073
1956
2,044,383 196,167 1,129,521 11,060,708
Capital profits, £474,057 11,534,825
Tax oveip’vided, £545,834 12,080,659
stocks w/down, £177,15311,903,506
1957 is j p.c.
1,,69,986 190,167 mum KHW
* Kate is declared rate, but amount is
shown less English income-tax. f Ex-
eludes specific provisions, £2,071,118
at 31/12/’57,
The pref div. claimed £196,167
of the smaller profit, the
balance equalling 18.2 p.c. on
ord. capital compared with 21.1
p.c. in the 1956 term and 24.6,
k ac .h to
1953. In view, of the continued
weakness of the metals market
and the poorer showing, the
gross div.-rate was dropped
from 22} p.c. to 18} p.c., U.K.
tax leaving the actual distribu-
tion at 10.7 p.c. on ord. capital.
[New B.H. paid an unchanged
Yskn (gross) div on HS
£1,204,629 paid Capital, recOg-
nition of the co. as an overseas
trading corporation for taxa-
lion purposes leading to a big
reduction in tax-provisions and
a 20 p.c. improvement in net
eUininSS 1
6 -J
At Broken Hill, Zinc Corp.
mined 762,912 tons (up 46,271
tons) of ore for 90,820 tons
( up 10,195 tons) of lead,
Iflo acn r me i an \
2,198,4570 z. (up 195,1400 z.)
silver and 139,684 tons (up
A(yyi tnncJ rvf yinr* con
OLfZJ tons) Ot Zinc COn-
centrates. Lead-content of
the ore rose from 12.2 p.c.
to )2 .7 p.c., bul a Trend to lower
i•. , ,
V3IUCS IS CXpCCtCu SS pTOQUC-
tion below No. 16 lead in-
creases. Ore reserves were
“fully maintained.”
The average spot prices for
lead and zinc fell sharply during
the year:
Year.
]955 ?jl .\ £stg.Jos 17 7 £stg. 9
me .. ne 4 u 97 14 6
1957 •• 96 13 4 si 12 4
Prices have remained weak in


ASSETS EXCEED
£55,000,000
. v ; ■
'iV
£
©3*s
INVEST FOR SECURITY
IN REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE OERENTURE STOCK
For full details, see Prospectus: your copy available from Members
of Stock Exchanges, 703 Branches of A.N.Z. Bank Limited
or I.A.C. Branches.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LTD.
(Established 28 years)
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART • CANBERRA
• NEWCASTLE • WOLLONGONG • GEELONG
Underwriting Brokers:
lan Potter &Co Melbourne,
Canberra and Sydney
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders:
The Perpetual Executors & Trustees Association
of Australia Limited
D 66
the current term and quotes on
the London Metal Exchange
earlier this month were £7l 15s.
a ton lead and £64 ss. a ton
zinc, giving a total well below
the combined lead-zinc price of
£175 regarded, by the co., as
“reasonable” for both pro-
ducer and consumer.
Chairman L. B. Robinson
told shareholders at last
month’s annual meeting that it!
was “difficult if not impossible
to forecast an early improve-
ment in prices.” International
tension in the Middle East has,
as yet, caused scarcely a
ripple on the metals market.
while the decision of the U.S.
Government to subsidise pro-
ducers in that country will add
to the difficulties of Australian
mines.
At the end of last year
capital-expenditure relating to
the Cape York bauxite deposits
showed-up in the accounts at
£348,204, and until preliminary
investigations are complete the
capital-outlay in the area
shouldn’t be particularly
heavy. As the other major
Australian project, an £B-
- zinc-smelter at Cockle
Creek (near Newcastle) for the
Sulphide Corp., is still at the
design-and-planning stage, there
appears to be no immediate
need for additional funds, but
the group has yet to indicate
how it intends to finance the
later stages of these two pro-
jects. Much will depend, of
course, on movements in the
prices of lead and zinc.
Although the higher output
of lead and zinc concentrates
and the weaker demand for the
metals left finances in a slightly
less liquid state, the group still
had a sizeable £7,028,548
(down £3,067,869) in casn,
bonds, etc., at December 3 last
while current liabilities fell
£5,637,341 short of the com-
bined book-values of debtors
(down £514,901) and stocks (up
£658,820):
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1956. 1957.
£stg. £stg.
Pref. .. 7,581,340 7,581,340
Old. .. 8,730.596 8,730.596
Reserves .. 11,060,768 12,536,057
Specific provi-
sions . . 1,898,904 2,071,118
Outside interests 221,814 337,318
Debentures .. 1,636.976 1,516.058
Creditors . . 3,673,499 2,361,567
Tax provision,
etc 6,343,689 4,264,295
Divs 1,227,605 1,039,352
£42.375,191 £40.437,701
Mine property 4,347,831 4,679,340
Freehold, plant,
etc. .. 9,361,103 9,612,840
Trade invest-
ments . . 4,943,456 5.348.711
Stocks .. 8,529.210 9,188.030
Book debts .. 4,789,426 4,274,525
Cash, etc. .. 10,096,417 7,028,548
Intangibles .. 307,688 305,701
£42,375,191 £40.437,701
Capital-expenditure on build-
ings, plant and equipment
during the year amounted to
£1,436,720, capital commit-
ments at balance-date totalling
£1,477,000.
Working-time at the Barrier
mines was reduced by 10 p.c.
earlier this year and, along with
the neighboring lead-zinc pro*
ducers, Zinc Corp. and New
B.H. have budgeted for a lower
output of ore in the current
term. Development work “far
in excess of that necessary
for the normal operation of
the mines” is being carried out
in order to prevent the dis-
missal of employees.
Buyers last week offered 61s.
(compared with a “high” of
1225. 6d. early in 1957) for the
f.-p. £stg. ords. At this price
the scrip would return a shade
under 4.4 p.c. from an 18J p.c.
div. or 3.5 p.c. from a 15 p.c.
distribution, after allowing for
U.K. tax.


start the dau right!
yU,©' llo
l 9 e®«
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
'T'he Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer has again showed
that he is moving towards a
freer, more relaxed economy.
His recent easements (the
removal of restrictions on bank-
advances and the slackening of
the authority of the Capital
Issues Committee) follow
naturally upon two reductions
in Bank-rate, an increase in
initial allowances and a
measure of relief to the ship-
ping industry.
This latest policy decision is
as much psychological as prac-
tical. Mr. Amory has, in effect,
adjusted his harness: he has
taken off a particularly uncom-
fortable curb-rein which, how-
ever, he is prepared to replace
with a less severe one if too
much “head” results in a run-
away disposition.
The relaxations are wel-
come. “Official requests” to the
banks to lend money only in
the national interests have been
particularly vexatious and diffu
cult to interpret. They have
impeded the development of
the small or medium-sized
business and have also, as the
Chancellor remarked in his
letter to Mr. Cobbold,
hampered efficient working. An
authoritarian and inequitable
control has been removed, but,
significantly, at a time when
it can have little immediate
effect. For bank-advances are
well below the ceiling which
Mr. Thorneycroft fixed last
autumn. Moreover, demand
for capital is falling.
The counter-measure of
“special deposits” which the
Bank of England has speedily
devised, pending the report ct
the Radcliffe Committee, is
a monetary device new to the
United Kingdom, however
much it may have been used
in Australia. Again, it will
have little immediate effect
but is considered to be more
efficacious and quicker of
action than the traditional in-
struments of Bank-rate and
open-market operations. It
will strengthen the power of
the central bank and, by its
very potential, inhibit the banks
from incautious lending.
Autumn Recession?
“The announcement of a
new anti-inflationary device at
the same time as the relaxation
of the credit-squeeze... .should
strengthen confidence in sterl-
ing at no cost to the internal
economy... .The measures
show a flair and sense of timing
that have rarely been seen in
post-war economic policy.”
Thus concludes a leader-writer
in “Financial Times,” faith-
fully reflecting opinion in the
City and in industry. And this
confidence is further en-
hanced by Mr. Amory’s
commonsense approach and
independence of party-political
electoral bias.
Especially welcome is his
whittling-down of the power of
the C.l.C.—a body which many
authorities consider should be
suspended. Certainly, it has
outlived its usefulness. The
“But, darling, I explained before We married that I'd
have to go to the office each morning .”
£lO,OOO limit imposed on the
raising of new capital was
easily circumvented by in-
genious artificial devices. Now
the £50,000 limit has been
restored. This will enable the
mightier industrial bankers
forced in desperation to raise
capital by methods now made
illegal, to expand legitimately.
By giving demonstrative
encouragement to investment
and unit-trusts, the Chancellor
is out to stimulate small savings
in equities and to influence
risk-capital into industry. And,
finally, companies will no
longer have to apply to the
C.I.C. for permission to make
a bonus-issue or to capitalise
their reserves, unless redeem-
able securities are involved.
The removal of this veto (held
to have been imposed for
political reasons) will also help
the small investor, since it will
lead to easier marketability of
shares.
Reactions on the Stock Ex-
change were mildly very
mildy—bullish. But there are
shadows. A recent inquiry,
instigated by the Federation of
British Industries, has revealed
that many firms are operating
below full productive-capacity
and that orders are falling
while stocks of finished goods
are rising. Profits are harder
to earn. Export-markets are
flagging. The investment boom
in Europe, it is authoritatively
said, is at an end.
All this points to a possible
recession in the autumn with
the concomitant of rising un-
employment. It may well be
that the Chancellor’s measures
are as much in anticipation of
this ihreat as they are tidying-
up adjustments to the economy.
In any event, we are clearly
moving towards expansion.
Going Grand
The Covent Garden season
has come to a meritorious end
with performances of “The
Trojans,” “Aida” and “The
Mastersingers.” “Boris Godu-r
nov” will officially reopen the
autumn season on October 31,
but, as if to fill the gap, it
will be preceded by two cycles
of “The Ring.” Does this im-
pressive concentration of heavy-
weights betoken a changing
taste in opera, or a reversion to
Wagnerianism?
Wagner, it is said, is always
in danger of fading T out, but,
despite his own projection of
the Teutonic character, his
identification with ideologies
not yet forgotten, and his
extravagant demands, he per-
sists in cropping-up again,
turgidities and all. Genius
apart, there is the sufficient
reason that musicians enjoy
performing him. Nevertheless,
a five-hour-long “Master-
singers” is not lightly to be
endured and is remembered
more for the uniqueness of the
experience than for unalloyed
esthetic pleasure.
After Wagner, what of
Berlioz? In weirdness of
character and flamboyance of
imagination they had much in
common. From what one knew,
“The Trojans” disregarded,
with a serene and unconcerned
ignorance, not only the prac-
tical limitations of performance
in the opera-house but also the
capacity of the singers. Need-
ing a double set of principals,
a corps de ballet, 10 separate
scenes and numerous stage
effects, it is hardly surprising
that the entire opera was not
produced until long after
Berlioz’s death.
John Gielgud’s production is
a compromise. He leaves the
complicated action to the pro-
gramme notes, deploys the
chorus sparingly and, most
successfully, highlights the
inter-relationships between the
main characters. The result, to
one surprised listener at least,
is sheer delight. What might
seem incongruous or absurd
(Berlioz, as is well known,
rated Shakspeare second only
to Virgil and interpolates the
Lorenzo-Jessica duet “In such
a night,” vice Aeneas and Dido,
in Act IV) is sublimated by
the purity and eloquence of the
music.
For one who thought he
could never recapture the
emotional thrill of hearing
great music for the first time
this opera is a blessed revela-
tion. Especially memorable
are the softness of the tenors
and mezzo-sopranos and the
feeling that singers and musi-
cians (under Rafael Kubelik)
were as one.


Dishwashing—and How!
By JOHN ABERNETHY
F;OR some years after read-
ing George Orwell’s
Down and Out in Paris
and London I thought
there was no more to be said
about the catering business in
general and the dishwashing
part of it in particular.
Then, a few years ago, I
got hungry enough to have to
become a dishwasher in one
of the many branches of a
huge and famous London
catering firm, and discovered
that the art of dishwashing has
changed enough in 20-odd
years to be, as Orwell would
have put it, “worth examining.”
Anyone who has read Down
and Out will recall the laby-
rinthine cellars of Orwell’s
Hotel X, with the heat, the
steam, and the shouting,
cursing, sweating figures in the
weird, hellish glow of ovens
and boilers ; the scour-
ing of pots and plates
by hand in greasy
water ; the unspeakable
filth in dark corners.
My Hotel X or,
rather, Restaurant X
-—was nothing like that,
but I doubt whether
Orwell would have
liked it any better. It
was only occasionally
hellish, and even then
it was a germless, well-
lighted, Brave New
sort of Hell.
The main change war:
that dishwashing is now
done by machinery:
that is, the actual
washing part.
HThere were several
floors to Restaurant
X. each offer,ng a
different type of service
and menu —e.g., a brasserie, a
self-service, a dinner-dance, an
“Old Vienna,” and so on —
and each, 1 think, had its own
kitchen and dishwashing-plant.
The machine I worked on
was in a low-ceilinged room
with white-tiled walls and floor,
just off the kitchen on the
first-floor. It was a U-shaped,
stainless-steel conveyer about
30ft. from end to end, half of it
enclosed by a flat-topped hous-
ing about 2ft. high. Wooden
duck boards ran right round the
whole assembly, inside and
outside the arms.
Waiters brought the dirty
plates and cutlery in and
stacked them at one end of the
U. Two men, one each side of
the arm, quickly wiped any
chunks of leftover food off the
plates into garbage-tins, and
stacked them into racks in wire
baskets. When a basket was
full they shoved it onto the
conveyer, and it wobbled down
the belt into the housing, like
a dinghy into the Tunnel of
Love. There jets of pressurised
steam and detergent purged its
load of any remaining grease
and food fragments which
were then piped away to the
drains below.
When the baskets emerged
from the spray-house, their
loads clean and shining, another
man at the other end of the U
grabbed them off the belt and
stacked them away to dry-off.
“A wizard, new gadget , old boy—you unlock it when
you leave for the office .”
Later the baskets were emptied
and returned to the first two
men; the clean plates were
hurried back to the kitchen, the
cutlery laid-out in wooden
trays and rushed through to
the waiters’ stalls in the dining-
room.
Perhaps half-an-hour later
they would all be back again
as dirty as ever, and the whole
process would be repeated.
r T' , HE machine was served by
about six men.
When I started, the over-
seer, a contemptuous young
Swede, put me on to running
the clean stuff back to the
kitchen and the waiters ; later
I was promoted to pulling the
baskets off the conveyer.
My mate on this job was
Ernie, an old, stringy mulatto.
He had four deep scars on the
left side of his face from temple
to jawbone. These were said to
have been from razor-slashes
and were supposed to have
affected his speech. He could
only make sounds like “Ah-aft-
ah” ; and “Yah-ah” and “Nah-
ah” ; but somehow, with these
and his eloquent hands, he
managed to express most of his
thoughts, needs and comments.
The only things washed by
hand were the glasses. One
man did them all at a double
sink in a corner. One rinse in
warm, soapy water, repeat in
clear, cold water; and you
mustn't touch the rims or
insides. Health Regulations.
Our glass-washer was Pat, an
old, rheumatic Irishman. He
used to cry softly to himself
during rush periods; but when
things were slack he would
whistle thinly, and furtively
rub-out a pair of socks or
underpants in the leftover
water.
The nearest we had to skilled
workers were the two stackers
at the head of the conveyer. In
peak hours they had to work
tremendously fast, picking up
wire baskets in one hand and
dirty plates in the other, clean-
ing off the muck and whipping
the plates, into position in the
racks almost in one action and
without breaking any.
Two young Scots, Roy and
Bob, inseparable mates, were
the day-staff stackers. They
reckoned it was the best job
they had ever had. Their
previous one had been as
stitchers in the mailbag-room
at Wormwood Scrubs. If you
wanted to pick up a bit on the
side, “Nothing risky, mind ye,”
they could help you out.
TThe work came in rushes —
breakfast from about
8 a.m. to 9.30 a.m.; morning-
tea, 10 a.m. to 11 a.m.; lunch,
12 to 2 p.m.; afternoon-tea,
3 to 4.30 p.m. with breaks
between for cleaning-up. The
dinner and supper peaks were
handled by the night-shift.
The lunch-rush was the worst.
For two unbroken hours the
machine hummed and grumbled
in a swirling cloud of steam, the
conveyer jammed with packed
and rattling baskets, and we
slithered up and down the
duckboards, sweating, grunting
and bumping into each other.
Occasionally you could catch
a few notes from a far-off
Wurlitzer, reminding you of
the hundreds of mouths outside
pleasantly chewing and chat-
ting . . .
The wage was about a fiver
a week, with two meals a day
thrown in, and I mean thrown.
The work itself wasn’t really
hard, but the conditions in-
separable from it were
extremely unpleasant. The
astringent - smelling detergent
seemed to be everywhere,
irritating your eyes and nostrils
and softening your fingernails ;
the water often rose above the
level of the duckboards and
quickly rotted the stitching in
your shoes (I lost two old
pairs in two weeks); and the
steam got into your lungs and
stomach, causing cramps and
a terrible tiredness.
I had been there for a couple
of weeks, and was on the point
of being promoted to glass-
washer on old Pat’s days-off,
when I received a cheque from
Sydney. It was only for a
small sum, scarcely enough to
keep me for a month ; but since
I had already started to behave
like a Dostoevski character I
decided to shoot-through with
it, and stretch it until it begged
for mercy, and then see what
else there was at the bottom
of the barrel.




Nunc Dinuttis
By
CLIVE MORTON
He had - come up the
Kokoda Trail a long
time ago ; it might
have been five years,
or even 15, or a great deal
longer since he had stepped
off the four-wheel-drive blitz
at the beginnings of the Owen
Stanley Ranges, behind Port
Moresby.
Officially it was nowhere
near as long as that. Officially
it was 26 days.
The first day wouldn’t have
been too bad ,if it hadn’t been
for the packs. When they
started-off the packs didn’t
seem so heavy, just a bit awk-
ward, drawing his shoulders
back when he wanted to bend
forward against the rising
ground. It took about an hour
before the pack started to
worry him. At first it was the
straps ; after a while they
started to bite into one place
in his shoulder.
He shifted them around and
changed the length a bit, but
they always seemed to slip
back to that one place in his
shoulder. No matter how many
times he shifted them they
seemed to move back again to
that one sore place in his
shoulder, and that stirred a
man up. He got stirred up with
the country, too. For the first
time in his life he sweated in
the rain. Such a damn’ country,
where you were wet-through
with the rain and sweating at
the same time. Whoever heard
of such a thing?
On the second day they
started pelting stuff out of their
packs. The second day wasn’t
so good, not so good at all.
He had awakened and stood up
and damn’ near fallen over
again, his leg-muscles were
so sore. The packs were
heavier the second day, even
after they’d pelted out the
spare socks and odds-and-ends.
That was one for old Einstein
to nut-out, that one.
It was the third or the fourth
day that his knees started to
give-out. He'd be walking
along and his legs would just
jackknife underneath him and
down he’d go, face down in
the mud. It always got a laugh,
that act. He laughed too, at
himself and the other fellows
who were doing the same thing.
Every afternoon it rained,
and it had started to get cold
at nights, too. The staging-
camps weren’t much. You
couldn’t get under cover.
Nearly every night he slept in
the mud and it stank a lot
of rotted wood and vines
underneath.
Wouldn’t remember what
'‘'“day it was he got hit. Some-
times he thought it was a Tues-
day and other times he thought
it was a Wednesday. Then
sometimes he doubted whether
it was that at all and decided
it must have been the Satur-
day. Anyway, it was the day
alter he picked up the sub-
machine-gun. It would be easy
if he could remember what day
it was he got the sub., because
then you just had to say the
following day, and then he'd
be sure, but the longer he
thought about what day he'd
picked up the sub. the more
unsure he was.
it was a terrible thing not
knowing what day you got hit.
Everyone knew that, there was
even one of the mob in Syria
who could remember the day
he got hit in France a whole
war before, and here he was
not knowing how long ago he’d
stopped one, and it was only
days away. He found himself
worrying about that, it was a
thing a man should really
remember.
He’d been lucky missing-out
on the fever. A lot had got the
fever. Most of them kept going
just the same, though. You
could see them walking along ;
they always seemed thinner
with the fever, and their eyes
turned very bright. It was
funny, but mostly it was going
downhill when they keeled
over. You’d think it would be
going uphill when the fever
would make them keel over,
but it wasn’t, it was going
downhill that did it.
They’d stagger along, grab-
bing at the lawyer-vines and
monkey-ropes down the muddy
passages in the clay cliffs. The
bark had shredded off the
monkey-vines and made it all
shredded from blokes’ hands,
but the lawyer-vines were
worse. They got terribly slip-
pery and greasy from the mud
on the hands of the men who
had hung-up before. Maybe
that was what made the fever-
blokes fall down, the slippery
lawyer-vines.
He thought he’d better sit
down and see if he could
remember if it had been the
monkey-rope or the lawyer-
vine places where they had
fallen down. He’d seen it often
enough ; he thought it would
be easy to remember if he just
sat down and thought for a
while. But he couldn’t remem-
ber at all, not really remember.
He could see the men falling
all right, the way they swung
along downhill on the vines,
and then pausing for a while
to stand up. That’s when it
usually happened—when they
stood up. They’d look around
for a minute and you’d see the
bright eyes in the muddied
faces staring straight at you
and not really seeing you at
all, and then they’d sway a bit
on their feet and fall in the
mud.
They’d try to get up quick,
but they couldn't. You could
see their faces working and
you could see they thought
they were getting up quick,
that their legs were moving
quick like their minds, but
they weren’t, they only thought
they were.
He got up and started
walking again.
HPhey thought they’d be
■*- able to push the Japs back
at first. There didn’t seem to
be too many of them, just
patrols probing in the scrub.
“Infiltrating,” they called it.
The Pongos used the same
technique all the time. They’d
sneak through the scrub and
get around you if they thought
you were a small mob, then
they’d close in and get stuck
into you with automatic stuff.
They had stacks of them and


all the ammo, in the world.
All light stuff it was, but plenty
good enough to stop you. You
had to pay the Pongos, they
had the game sewn-up . . . Get
in close and spray it into you.
It was the only way, in the
scrub. You never saw anything
much, just a movement of a
tree-branch or a bit of a flutter
in a vine. That’s when you
had to paste it in. You had
to get stuck into it with every-
thing you had, but the .303
was slow, you soon woke to
that.
It didn’t matter about heavy
ammo., the range was always
close. You wanted something
that could spray into that
rotten green undergrowth
around you ; you wanted some-
thing handy to use, one-handed
if you had to, and quick. It
had to be quick. You never
got time to sight properly, you
seldom saw the Nip ; just the
movement in the scrub.
That’s how he worked ; got
maybe 20 rounds away
while you pumped three or
four out of the old three-oh.
You couldn’t keep going like
that. And then you couldn't
carry enough ammo, to splash
it around like the Nip; he
could carry stacks more rounds
for those little guns than you
could carry for your .303.
The first chance he got to
dice the three-oh, he got rid
of it. He’d got fed-up with it
and wanted an automatic
badly. He knew that was a
bad thing. The rifle was a
soldier’s best friend, all along
they had told them that. And
here he was wanting to get
rid of the bloody slow clumsy
thing. They’d call that a lack
of confidence in his weapons.
As sure as hell they’d have a
name for it, and reckon it was
bad for morale, losing con-
fidence in your weapons.
They’d have a name for it, all
right. You had to hand it to
the Army, they had a name for
everything.
He’d got the submachine-
gun from the corporal. The
corporal had been ahead of
him, blasting away.
a bit of a blue
over the sub. A couple of
others had been sweating on
it, but after all he had been
the man behind the corporal
most of the way, and he really
thought he was entitled to it.
He had to roll the corporal
over to get the gun. He was
pretty sure now that the other
two weren’t sour on him get-
ting it. One of them had helped
him get the ammunition-
pouches off, and the other had
given him a hand to drag the
corporal off the track, so they
couldn’t have been too snaky.
They started to fall back
soon after that. They were
pretty sure they could pin the
Nip, but you couldn’t seem to
get stuck into him really, not
a straightout lash, anyway. He
was around you and about you
and behind you, but nothing in
big lumps that you could see
and really get your teeth in.
The tucker was getting a bit
light - on. The poor bloody
boongs couldn’t keep it up to
them and a lot of stuff the
biscuit-bombers pelted out
went astray.
A lot of cases burst when they
hit the ground and tossed the
“ Hurry , you stupid bird —I
have to cook it, eat it and
get to the office by nine-
o'clock.”
bully-beef tins everywhere, but
that wasn’t as bad as the dog-
biscuits. You could always
clean off the mud on the beef-
tins, but the biscuit-packets
smashed open in the mud.
Then you had to grope around
for them in the muck and dig
the biscuits out with your
fingers. You could never get
the mud right off and that was
a bit of a bastard . . .
The sniper had pinned them
down and already knocked a
couple of blokes over behind.
He was very close to the sniper,
practically underneath him. He
knew the tree he was in ; you
could see the leaves ripple
when he fired if you craned
your neck.
The awkward part was he
couldn’t get out to fire. The
sub. was underneath him,
squashed in the mud when he’d
made his dive for cover behind
the tree-trunk. After a while
he managed to get the gun out
and tried to swing it up at the
sniper. That was when he
found he couldn’t fire at the
sniper from where he lay. He
tried to sneak out the near-
side of the trunk and get a
burst away, but the sniper w r as
on him.
After a while the sniper
started firing at a bunch pinned
down across the gully. He
managed to slip away from the
tree, then along underneath a
fallen trunk. It had a big
bunch of roots sticking up in
the air at the end of the butt,
and he could see the top of
the tree easily. He was going
to have a lash at the sniper by
poking up through the roots,
but he thought that was a bit
dicey if he got the squirt
tangled-up. He wouldn’t be
able to duck back through the
roots quick and he thought
he’d be liable to get hit trying.
It was then he decided to
step to one side as quick as
hell and get a burst away. He
was pretty certain he could
bring it off all right, provided
he waited for the right
moment. All he had to do was
to sweep the gun a bit as he
fired and he’d have the whole
top of the tree covered. That
was the way he saw it; he
couldn’t see any other way
out; besides he was sick of
lying in the mud.
That was when he should
have stopped and thought; he
realised that now; he should
have thought about the gun
lying in the mud. It was all
very plain to him now. He’d
cocked the sub. and waited.
As soon as the sniper opened
up again he jumped to his feet
and stepped sideways. It was a
bit Hollywood but it was neat
and quick, there was nothing
wrong with the sidestep. He
could see the compensator on
the end of the sub.-snout even
now when he thought of it,
right on the beam covering the
sniper.
It was a pity about the mud ;
the mud ruined everything. Of
course, he should have tossed
himself right down again as
soon as the sub. didn’t fire,
instead of standing there pull-
ing at the trigger. He won-
dered about the sub.; he
couldn’t remember if he’d told
them to clean it up, that it was
full of mud, but of course
they’d know, they’d seen it
miss with him.
Cometimes you were
lucky. He’d seen a bloke
in Syria with a slug right
through him as clean as a
whistle and the hole had been
neat and small. Even where it
came out it was only a small
hole. It hadn’t hit a bone— >
that was why.
His had hit him in the ribs
on the left-hand side and
smashed them up quite a bit.
What made it awkward was
the direction it had come down
from the trees at him. When
it had finished with his ribs it
had kept on going, gouging
out the front of his belly. It
was just bad luck, hitting the
bone and coming out like that.
They’d been a long time
getting the sniper. After that
someone came up and had a
look at him and put a field
dressing across his belly.
They’d sent back for a
stretcher, but he didn’t know
that until the boongs arrived.
Fuzzies, they were, with hair
all out their sides like a mad-
woman’s breakfast.
He wouldn’t be in it at all.
He told the lieut. that, he had
made it very plain to him. It
was bad enough having those
little blokes lumping you along
when you were too shot-up to
walk yourself, but when you
were all right it was making it
a bit too hot. Not on your life,
he wouldn’t be in it, what did
th*ey think he was —a flaming
AWAS?
He’d shown them. He just
grabbed a couple more dress-
ings and a couple of tins of
bully and away he went down
the Trail.
He couldn't remember when
his guts came out. It was
before he met the boy, he was
certain of that. He’d sat down
against a tree and coaxed a
match to light. He wanted a
smoke and there was a big
leech on his leg. It was better
if you burnt the leeches off, it
made them let go in one piece.
If you pulled them off, nine
times out of ten they left their
heads behind and you’d just as
likely end-up with a bad leg.
He’d lit the cigarette first; he
remembered that because he’d
wanted the match to do both
jobs ; he was light on matches.
You had to be neat with
the match. A lot of blokes held
it too close to their legs and
burnt themselves. He’d been
good at burning leeches off
right from the start.
It was the same time he’d
seen the blood that the leech
spat up on his leg that he
noticed the blood coming
through the field dressing on his
stomach. It had made the
dressing a bit soggy, so he
thought he’d change it. The
top dressing came off all right,
but the bottom one stuck a
bit and hurt coming off.
He swore a bit over that
and that’s when he saw what
{Continued on page 56)


ROYAL COMMISSIONS—PLAIN AND FANCY
t i -j-o good ever came out of a royal
commission . . .” “You watch!
It’s only a stunt to whitewash
Bloggs . . .” “A lot of words
and talk, and then no action.”
These comments sum-up widely held
opinions on the efficacy of royal com-
missions and select-committees. How
valid are they?
Obviously they can’t be universally
right, because both forms of inquiry are
very elastic in their purpose and cover
an extremely wide range of activities.
A royal commission may be appointed
to inquire into allegations which point
to the existence of a public scandal and
from which criminal charges may issue,
or it may be called upon to ascertain
facts and make recommendations on
which important legislation is to be
based. Although the work of the latter
type is of more lasting value to the
community, it is the former variety that
usually makes the headlines. The Jock
Garden Timber Inquiry had much more
general-reader interest than the proceed-
ings of the royal commissions into the
coal- and sugar-industries, though it must
be admitted that the N.S.W. royal com-
mission on the liquor-industry was not
without human interest.
It is much the same with select-
committees and other forms of inquiry.
Some are dull, routine affairs which,
nevertheless, have an important influence
on the course of legislation ; others cause
a storm-in-a-teacup for a brief period
and are then forgottejo except by those
directly concerned in them. To how
many people, for example, does the name
of the steamer Sumatra mean anything?
Should Captain Strasburg have been paid
a war-gratuity? Was the food and
accommodation provided on the trans-
port ship Bahia Castillo as bad as its
munition-worker passengers said it was?
Did the Bamford commission report for
or against white labor in the pearling
industry? These are questions on which
most quiz-men would get the gong.
D. H. Borchardt, chief librarian of
the University of Tasmania, has pre-
pared a work which, if it doesn’t give
full answers to these and similar ques-
tions, at least makes it easier for his-
torians to find out the answers. This is
his Checklist of Royal Commissions,
Select Committees of Parliament and
Boards of Inquiry. Part 1 of the work,
covering Commonwealth Government
inquiries 1901-1950, has just been pub-
lished by Walter W. Stone as No. 7 in
the series: Studies in Australian
Bibliography.
The checklist enumerates all the com-
missions and committees in chronological
order; the date of their appointment;
the date of their report; the names of
the members ; a summary of the contents
of the reports and of the recommenda-
tions (if any). It makes no attempt to
assess the usefulness of the inquiries in
terms of the consequences of their-reports
—“that is the task of the historian, not
the bibliographer.” However, to make the
historian’s task a little easier than he
perhaps deserves, it tells him exactly
where to find each report among the
multitude of Parliamentary papers.
T\o royal commissions and select com-
mittees ever achieve anything? A
glance at the first two entries in the check-
list—the first two select-committees
appointed by the First Commonwealth
Parliament —doesn’t encourage one to
expect much from the system. No. 1,
appointed June 6, 1901, to report on the
desirability of coining gold, silver and
copper coins in Australia, recommended
a decimal system of coinage. Fifty-seven
years later advocates of currency-reform
are still recommending it.
The Commonwealth’s second select-
committee, styled The Tasmania and
Australia Steamship Communication
Select Committee, recommended a daily
steamer each way across Bass Strait.
This recommendation hasn’t yet been
translated into reality, and even today
shipping-services are still a subject on
which Tasmanian Senators of opposing
parties make common cause.
'T'he first Commonwealth royal com-
■*- mission (appointed August 12, 1902)
was required to report on conditions
aboard a troopship returning from the
Boer War. It reported that the vessel
was badly appointed and that its medical
services were particularly bad (17 men
died). The C.O. was criticised for not
having made sufficient effort to improve
conditions and for being lax in discipline.
In the first decade of the Parliament
there were several royal commissions of
great importance in framing Common-
wealth policy. Among these were the
Quick Commission on the Common-
wealth Tariff, which presented reports in
1905, 1906, 1907 and 1908 ; the Royal
Commission on the Navigation Bill, over
which W. M. Hughes presided ; the Royal
Commission on Old Age Pensions, an
all-party commission which unanimously
recommended Commonwealth entry into
the pensions field. Later ones dealt with
the disabilities of the small States; the
coal- and sugar-industries (several on
each); the tobacco - monopoly (the
majority report urged the Government
to acquire the whole industry, after alter-
ing the Constitution to make this pos-
sible) ; the fruit-industry (with particular
reference to H. Jones and Co., of Hobart);
banking (with Ben Chifiey submitting a
minority report).
■Parliamentary privilege first worried a
select-committee in 1904. The com-
mittee had to investigate charges that
Sir Edward Hutton, G.O.C. Common-
wealth Military Forces, had attempted
to place Senator Lieut.-Colonel J. C.
Nield on the Retired List because of
speeches he had delivered in the Senate
and that Hutton had attempted to inter-
fere with or intimidate Nield in his
capacity of Senator. (Interference proved,
but not intimidation.)
The shortest report on record is prob-
ably that of a select-committee which in
1914 was asked to inquire into a contract
connected with the East-West Railway:.
The committee made application to the
department concerned to produce the
original papers and documents in connec-
tion with Mr. Teesdale Smith’s contract;
and, as obstacles were placed in the way
of the production of such papers and
documents, the committee declined to pro-
ceed further with the inquiry.
The longest? Well, some of them
were very long, particularly those on the
wheat- and sugar-industries, and the
reports of several war-time inquiries into
war-expenditure (including cost -plus),
social security and rural industries.
Some commissions seem to have died
without issue. A royal commission on
the selling-price of coal was appointed
on September 30, 1920. Its members
were C. Hibble, A. Jobson and H. H.
Ling. That is all Mr. Borchardt has been
able to discover about it. His checklist
comments, “There is no trace of this
RC’s activities.” A similar comment dis-
misses a royal commission on the loyalty
of German nationals (July 7, 1921).
As to the answers to the questions posed
earlier:
(1) The Sumatra disappeared mysteriously
at sea after leaving Sydney on June 25,
1923. Members of her crew were found
drowned, but no survivors or evidence of
shipwreck was discovered. A royal com-
mission under the chairmanship of J. J.
Cohen concluded that the ship had
foundered in a heavy storm; that all on
board (43 crew and three passengers) were
drowned; that the ship had been in gdod
repair and condition and had not been
overladen.
(2) Capt J. Strasburg took part in the
capture of Rab'aul from the Germans in
1914, but as he was a naturalised British
subject and not British-born, his commis-
sion as a lieutenant was withheld and his
war-gratuity refused. A select-committee
of the Senate recommended on August 18,
1922, that he was eligible for gratuity
because of the manner of his appointment
and of the discharge of his duties. Sir
Thomas Glasgow, in a minority report,
dissented, but recommended the payment
of an amount equal to the gratuity.
(3) Anyone interested in this will have
to draw his own conclusions from evidence
available in the Commonwealth National
Library archives. The report of the com-
mission is untraceable.
(4) This one should be hnnn-d from
quiz-programmes. The royal commission
on pearling was appointed on April 3,
1912. It issued a progress-report on
October 29. 1913, in which it favored
replacing colored labor with white labor,
recommended the establishment of a diving-
school and suggested reserving all waters
within the three-mile limit for boats
“manned partially or wholly by white
crews.” Its final report, published on
September 22, 1916, said, “Having care-
fully weighed the evidence . . . your
Commissioners have decided that diving -
for she!! is not an occupation which our
workers should b'e encouraged to under-
take.”
Which seems to support the viewpoint
of those who maintain that royal com-
missions always like to have a little bit
each way.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Tulloch's Weight
The question that has exer-
cised racing-men all over Aus-
tralia since last spring has been
settled: if he starts in this year’s
Melbourne Cup Tulloch will
carry 10.1 (10.3 in the Caul-
field Cup). It is a fair assess-
ment of the champion’s ability,
and, if anything, a pound or
two less than most racing-
people expected.
The handicapper has rated
Tulloch the equ«l of Phar Lap.
In his four-year-old year the
mighty “R.ed” was assessed at
9.12 —and won. Deducting the
31b. allowed to Phar Lap under
the w.-f.-a. scale as a gelding,
Tulloch has the same weight.
It is a great compliment, but
one that Tulloch has earned.
Here is an accurate measure
of Tulloch’s greatness: Rising
Fast and Redcraze, great
gallopers both of them, were
allotted 10.0 and 10.3 respec-
tively for the Melbourne Cup
in their sixth year.
Closest to Tulloch in the Mel-
bourne Cup are Sailor’s Guide
(but Sailor will be in America
when the race is run) and
Straight Draw, both on 9.8.
Good as he is, it is hard to
see Straight Draw winning
again, with only 71b. less than
Tulloch.
• • • •
Strange after the last few
years that Red Eagle, at 8.13,
is the highest-weighted New
Zealand-trained entrant. Yemen
(8.10), winner of the 1956 Auck-
land Cud and this year’s Well-
ington Cup, looks the pick of
the Dominion’s nominations.
The handicappers have
agreed that Sydney filly Wiggle
is the best rising three-year-old
in the land. She has 7.4 in the
Melbourne Cup, 7.6 in the
Caulfield. The colts Man of
Iron and N.Z. entrant Second
Earl are on 7.7 lib. over
w.f.a.
It was not because she
started a warm favorite that
Pedro’s Pride received a Mel-
bourne Cup reception after the
2 mi]es, 3£ furlongs A. V.
Hisk e n s Steeplechase at
Moonee Valley last Saturday.
The crowd remembered the
unlucky run the big mare
suffered in this year’s National
Steeplechase. The mare carried
the tremendous burden of 12.7
on Saturday, had to take the
field up to the tearaway leader,
Greek Legend, and still had
the courage to battle on to a
five-lengths win.
• • • •
The greatest jumping mare
Australia has known, Pedro’s
Pride, in her Saturday’s win,
raised her stake-earnings to
£14,482 —and those earnings
have been restricted this season
by a weakness in her off hind-
leg. She was slightly lame
after her win on Saturday. •
A couple of weeks ago the
third-placing of Gurney in a
race at Flemington was noted
here, and it was suggested that,
ridden with patience, the three-
year-old Comic Court gelding
would be hard to defeat in the
class racing at present. Hav-
ing his first start since then in
the first heat of the Sunset
Welter at the Valley the geld-
ing gave nothing else a chance
when he dashed clear soon
after turning into the short
straight. It is becoming in-
creasingly evident that Comic
Court will be as successful a
sire as he was a racehorse.
Brilliant winner of three
hurdle-races straight the
Grand National among them
—Resotto looked so far above
Saturday’s weak opposition
that he was sent out odds-on
favorite. Apparently he’s had
enough for the time being. At
no stage of the Hurdle could
he get clear of the field, and
in the run home gave-in
weakly when challenged by
Sultan Bil. The winner did
not score out of turn ; he had
not been successful since
August last year. Sultan Bil
is engaged in the Australian
Hurdle next Saturday. With
the same weight (9.3) as he
carried at the Valley, he must
have some chance in the big
Caulfield event.
About a year ago Reg
Heather announced his retire-
ment from riding, but he still
takes an occasional mount on
a horse with good prospects.
Riding for the first time in
many weeks, he booted home a
double at the Valley. Miss
Valora, a five-year-old Charle-
val mare now trained by E. J.
Wfilmott (who trained her
dam, Hora), gave Heather his
first leg. The other was Magic
Nib. Racegoers have seen
Heather successful on numer-
ous occasions wearing the
black-and-white stripes of
Magic Nib’s owner, W. Bal-
loch. Possibly the best horse
Heather rode for Balloch was
Alister, dual Derby winner in
1950.
Webster raced yet again at
the Valley, and won again, to
make his winning-sequence six.
Distance of Saturday’s event
—the Cooee Handicap—was a
mile, but Webster was as bril-
liant over that journey as he
had been in shorter races. He
goes now for a well-earned
spell.
The Australian Hurdle, at
Caulfield next Saturday (first
leg of the V.A.T.C.’s import-
ant jumping double), dates to
1892. Over the years the dist-
ance has varied from 2\ to 4
miles ; since 1945 it has been
2 miles, 5 furlongs. Although
the event is sometimes regarded
as a consolation-prize for
horses defeated in the Grand
National, half-a-dozen horses
have won the double, including
Pooley Bridge, who carried
12.5 in his Australian Hurdle
win in 1936, a performance
that has not been equalled.
For the Australian Hurdle:
Red Pampas, 1 ; Fardebt, 2 ;
Jolly Bounder, 3.
In Melbourne’s racing-year
Bill Williamson was premier
jockey—as he was last year,
and has been six times alto-
gether. His tally was 53
winners, 11 clear of Ron
Hutchinson’s score. “Hutchy”
was also runner-up to William-
son last year. Geoff Lane, 414-
winners, finished third overall,
but easily first among appren-
tices ; he has topped the list
of apprentices four years run-
ning. Brian Smith, for the
third successive year, was the
most successful jumping rider,
with winners.
Sydney Form
In the MacArthur Quality
Handicap for two-year-olds at
Rosehill last Saturday the
winner, Djoser, improved
rapidly on a poor effort of
seven days earlier at the same
course, when he finished 14th
of 16 starters in the race won
by Poundwise. As Djoser had
won a Novice for two-year-
olds at Warwick Farm at his
start before that, and had had
heavy support for the Rosehill
event won by Poundwise, it
was not surprising that punters
took it hard when the Nilo
gelding bounded home at 12
to 1 from the hot favorite
Robin Tout and Herne Hill.
Djoser was ridden by N. Mc-
Growdie for the first time, and
under his Bst.—a drop of 141 b.
from the previous Saturday’s
Graduation Stakes—he scored
without being extended.
Winner of 11 races, five on
end prior to competing at
Rosehill on Saturday, speedy
country galloper Remsuim was
regarded as something to bet
on in the Welter. Leading into
the straight he seemed to be
travelling easily, but he was the
first horse beaten, and finished
seventh. He could perhaps do
with a light let-up.
Coal, well fancied by her
Rosebery trainer, A. F. Berry,
won the Welter from outsiders
Dantesque and Kahiba. It was
Coal’s sixth success, two of her
wins being at Randwick. By
Golden Chance (imp.) from
Frescetta, Coal was sold
cheaply as a yearling for 90gns.
Her dam is by Fresco (imp.)
and comes from a staying
family, as her lines included
Amounis and Piastre. Coal is
a useful mare, and could scon
earn more stakemoney.
New Fairy has won at six
furlongs at Canterbury Park


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50ih Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
and at seven furlongs at Rose-
hill in successive starts. At
Canterbury she started at 66
to 1 and at Rosehill at 20’s,
with as much as 50 to 1 offered
in the course of the betting.
She won weil.
• • mm
A. Mulley, who had ridden
Squander Lad in some of his
wins, was on the runner-up
to him, Royal Kingdom, in
the Rosehill Flying. The
winner, piloted by Mel
Schumacher, won easily. Smart
two-year-old Tapu ran third
—two hard runs in open com-
pany within three days was a
bit solid for the brilliant colt,
even though he had only 7st.
to carry at Rosehill. He
battled on well after taking
the lead before entering the
straight. The winner had
failed in the Doomben Ten
Thousand at his prior start,
but had no luck in running.
Though midwinter racing
seldom has much bearing on
prospects for the Epsom and
Metropolitan, some runners in
the Rosehill Winter Cup (H
mile) could well figure in the
Metrop. this year. Winner
of the Cup, Tranquilette, is
racing at top form, but trainer
Baden Hasler might have the
job ahead of him to keep her
at her top until October 6,
Metrop. day. Macdougal,
Half Hennesy, Ulandra and
Gay Ranick might improve, but
Turkestan’s failure with 7.3
seems to dispose of his Metrop.
chance with Bst. He is simi-
larly weighted for the Epsom,
but the mile may be too short
for him.
• • • •
Of the beaten horses in the
Winter Cup, the most impres-
sive was runner-up Half
Hennesy. Ridden by his usual
jockey, D. Weir, the gelding
was a long last soon after the
field left the straight, and was
still last at the six-furlongs.
He put in a powerful finish
in the straight, taking the
centre of the track and pass-
ing several horses in the final
furlong or so. Half Hennesy
carried 8.1 at Rosehill and has
21b. more in the Metrop. The
gelding has won more than a
dozen races and has twice
been successful at a mile-and-
a-half. On his Rosehill display
Half Hennesy should be one
to remember on Metrop. day.
Despite his good form in
country districts—four succes-
sive wins before racing at Rose-
hill—Herne Hill was only
lightly fancied for the Mac-
Arthur Quality Handicap.
At Gunnedah on July 5 he won
with 8.12 at 4 to 1 on. He
ran a good race for his third-
money at the Hill. He is by
Transatlantic (imp.) from
Voulez Vo us by Scorpion
(imp.).
w • • •
Randwick trainer T. J.
Smith, on top of the Sydney
trainers’ winning-table for. the
sixth time in succession—Bs
firsts, 53 seconds and 50| thirds
—went close at Rosehill to
making it a century for all
States. His total was 99 ; but
two thirds were the best his
horses could manage. Smith’s
successful run seems certain
to continue during the 1958-59
season, which will open at
Randwick this coming Satur-
day, when the A.J.C. will stage
the first of a two-days meeting,
the other being on the bank-
holiday Monday. G. Moore,
with 83 wins, was easily the
most successful jockey, fol-
lowed by A. Mulley, 46 ; R.
Selkrig, 41 ; and N. Sellwood,
39|. Star Kingdom led the
sires with 27 firsts on Sydney
tracks, one ahead of Newtown
Wonder. Owner Ezra Norton
headed the owners’ list, mainly
through Straight Draw’s run
of success.
Considering his sound form,
Tapu was at remarkable odds
(eights and even tens) for the
midweek Warwick Farm Appin
Handicap, which he won nar-
rowly from the well-fancied
Pipes of Pan and veteran
Spearby. Tapu’s success makes
Prince Kerdieil read like a
good horse, the Prince having
beaten him at his prior start
at Canterbury. Morrie Ander-
son, who trains Tapu, paid a
modest 225gns. for the colt’s
half-sister by Stokes (imp.) at
the Randwick yearling-sales
last Easter. Tapu is by
Emperor (imp.). His dam, Sans
Touche, wasn’t raced. She is
by Neptune (imp.) from Joyous
by Chief Ruler (imp.). Joyous
won five races in New Zealand.
* * *
Empire Games
A most successful Empire
Games, the sixth to be held,
concluded at Cardiff on Satur-
day with the Queen’s announce-
ment that she had created
Prince Charles Prince of Wales.
Perhaps appropriately, Eng-
land won the greatest number
of gold-medals (29) and the
unofficial points-score. Aus-
tralia came second, with 27
gold-medals. Both countries
finished with 22 silver-medals.
South Africa won 13 gold-
medals. A high standard of
sportsmanship was shown
throughout.
• • • •
The highlight of the 1954
Games at Vancouver was the
mile, a gripping race with only
two men really in it —England’s
Bannister and Australia’s
Landy. Bannister, with a great
finishing-burst, won, in 3min.
58.85ec.; Landy was just be-
hind in 3.59.6. The 1958 mile
could not possibly be singled
out to the same extent as the
highlight, for there was not the
same contest between two great
runners; in fact, one man out-
shone the rest.
Taking sole charge in the
third lap, Australia’s Herb
Elliott ran away an easy
winner in 3.59, his seventh
under-4min. mile. Merv Lin-
coln, who may become known
as the greatest “runner-up”
runner in history, was second
(in 4.1.9) and Australian Albert
Thomas third —the only athletic
event in which Australia filled
the three places. Earlier in
the Games Elliott had won the
880yds. in Games-record time
of Imin. 49.35ec., with a “four-
minute” miler, Brian Hewson,
of England (who was eighth in
the mile), second.
The women’s sprint star in
1954 was Australia’s Marjorie
Jackson, who won three gold-
medals: 100yds., 220yds. (in
24sec., equalling her then
world-record) and the women’s
4 x 110yds. relay. The
“Marjorie Jackson” at Cardiff
was Marlene Mathews, though
she missed on the third gold-
medal —she won both 100yds.
and 220yds. (in 23.65ec., equal-
ling the world-record ; but
she has a time of 23.4 await-
ing ratification). England won
the 4 x 110yds. relay, with
Australia second. Betty Cuth-
bert, No. 1 sprinter at the
Melbourne Olympics, came
second in the 220yds., and was
fourth in the 100yds.
There was no repetition of
the 1954 Games marathon,
when, the course being over a
mile longer than it should
have been and with the race run
in midday heat, Englishman
Jim Peters, who should have
won, collapsed and for a time
was on the verge of death. The
1958 marathon was won by
Games “dark horse” Dave
Power, who earlier had won
the six-miles, from South
African marathon specialist
Jan Barnard.
New Australian Anna Pazera
won the women’s javelin with
a world - record throw of
188 ft. 4in.; Norma Thrower,
of South Australia, who has
had to play second-fiddle to
Shirley Strickland in the
hurdles, proved herself a
worthy successor by winning
the 80-metres hurdles; Wes-
tralian lan Tomlinson
accused, before he went, of
having “no chance” —won the
hop-step-and-jump with a
Games-record 51ft. A
world-record 49.75ec. was set
by Potgieter, of South Africa,
in winning the 440yds. hurdles
from Tasmanian David Lean,
who won the event in 1954 i
New Zealand won two
athletic gold-medals (out of
four in all). Murray Halberg
won the three-mile race, with
Albert Thomas, who ran a
world-record three-miles in
Dublin a few weeks earlier,
second. The women’s shot-
put was won by Valerie Sloper
with a Games-record 51ft. The
1954 women’s shot-put was
also won by an N.Z. girl,
Yvette Williams.
Australia did not fill a place
in any of the three men’s
sprints, the v 100yds. being
won by Gardner, of
Jamaica (who also won the
120yds. hurdles), the 220yds.
by Robinson (the Bahamas’
one-man team), the 440yds. by
Singh, of India. In the quarter-
mile, one must note the sur-
name of the third placegetter,
from Canada —Tobacco!
Michele Mason, 19-year-old
Australian high-jump cham-
pion, won the Games high-
jump with a leap of sft. 7in.,
an inch higher than she cleared
in winning the Australian
title. Second was N.Z. lass
Mary Donaghy, who also got


ASSURANCE
COMPANY UNITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
• __
Offices:
SYDNEY MirLBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
to sft. 7in. The Australian
girl won on fewer failures.
John Konrads won the
440yds. freestyle in Games-
record 4min. 25.95ec., follow-
ing it up with another excellent
win in the 1650yds. freestyle ;
time, a Games-record 17min.
45.45ec. Australian Gary Win-
ram was second in the 1650yd5.,
50yds. behind. John Konrads’s
sister Usa won the women’s
440yds. freestyle in a Games-
record 4min. 49.45ec., with
Dawn Fraser second and
Lorraine Crapp (still a mighty
good swimmer, but not quite
as good) third.
First three placings went to
Australia in both the 110yds.
women’s freestyle and the
110yds. men’s freestyle. Dawn
Fraser, the world’s best
woman freestyler over the dis-
tance, won in world-record
time (61.45ec.), followed by
Alva Colquhoun and Lorraine
Crapp. The men’s event was
won by world-record holder
John Devitt, in 56.65ec„ fol-
lowed by Gary Chapman and
Geoff Shipton. In the Mel-
bourne Olympics Australia
also filled the first three-places
in the equivalent (100-metres)
swims—it was Fraser, Crapp
and Faith Leech, in that order
for the girls, and Jon Henricks,
Devitt and Chapman for the
men.
The 440yds. women’s medley
relay was won by England in
a world-record 4min. 54sec.
Australia (Beckett, Evans,
Bainbridge and Fraser) came
second, in 4.55.1, which also
beat the previous world-record
—Dawn Fraser, swimming the
final (freestyle) leg, covered the
110yds. in 60.6, a world-record
for the distance and a most
remarkable swim. The men’s
440yds. medley relay was won
by Australia (Monckton,
Gathercole, Wilkinson and
Devitt). in 4.14.2.
In other swimming events
Terry Gathercole won the
220yds. breaststroke in- 2min.
4L6sec., a Games record ;
John Monckton won the
110yds. backstroke in a Games-
record 61.75ec., with Australian
John Hayres .second ; Brian
Wilkinson was beaten into third
place in the 220yds. butterfly
behind the very promising
Scots lad lan Black and
Symonds, of England. Beverley
Bainbridge won the 110yds.
butterfly in Games-record
lmin. 13.5 sec. Australian girls
did not get a place in either
the 220yds. breaststroke (won
by A. Lonsborough, of Eng-
land) or the 110yds. backstroke,
won by England’s Judy Grim
ham in a world-record lmin.
11.9 sec.
Easy winner of the Henley
Diamond Sculls a few weeks
back, Australian Stuart Mac-
kenzie won the single-sculls
final, with Zealander Jim
Hill not far behind, second.
Mackenzie always had the race'
in hand. Later the same day
Mackenzie and Merv Wood
came second in the double-
sculls —Wood’s original part-
ner, Riley, had to withdraw
through injury just before the
Games began.
Cyclist Dick Ploog, who
tied for first in the 1000-metres
time-trial in 1954—at 17 he
was then the youngest cyclist
ever to win an Empire Games
gold-medal—won the 1000-
nietres sprint. lan Browne,
who with Tony Marchant won
a gold-medal in the 2000-
metres tandem at Melbourne
Olympics, won the gold-medal
for the 10-miles cycling race,
in an exciting finish from En-
zedder Warren Johnston. Aus-
tralian Frank Brazier came
second in the road-race, won
by England’s Ray Booty.
Australia’s boxing Taylor
brothers almost won two gold-
medals. Wally won the feather-
weight title, white Ollie was
beaten in the bantamweight
final, for * the silver-medal.
Another boxing gold-medal
was won for Australia by Tony
Madigan (light-heavyweight).
* * *
From Dick Rundle, Fresno,
California:
A former East Malvern (Melb.)
harrier 50 years ago', 1 had to take
in the mile-races of Landy, Elliott
and Lincoln in Califorhia. 1 saw
Bailey pass Landy in his .first race
at Los Angeles (May, 1956); Landy
win at Fresno (June, ’56); Elliott
beat Ron Delany on a cold night
at Compton when my teeth chat-
tered (June 6. 1958).
Delany, obviously nervous, was
running around in Iris sweat-suit
an hour before the start, and finished
badly. The mile at Bakersfield
(June 21, 1958) was run in an
arena sunk, into the ground with
a 6ft. brick-wall around it, and
the temperature at race-time' was
86. ' The brilliantly lighted football
clock was set at 4mm. and run
in reverse, so everyone was able
to figure closely the actual
running-time of 3.57.9.
Elliott is great, but has not the
polished personality of Landy.
Australian athletes coming over
should be groomed ■ for the
occasion. The Yanks love a
winner, and had Elliott jogged
around one or more times after
his wins he would have received
the great acclamation from the
crowds which they wanted to give
him. Actually, few saw' him before
his races, and little of him after-
wards. At Bakersfield he washed
his face twice after the race in
one of the steeplechase water-
hazards, and later cooled his feet
oH in it.
Alex Henderson, the Aussie
runner from Arizona, was the real
hero of the meet, and got the
greatest applause for his fine win
in the three-miler. He led almost
from start to finish, and went
around Tabori, the Hungarian
runner, for a last-lap sprint that
had everyone out of his seat.
His win of the mile in Oregon
under adverse wind conditions in
4.04 puts him up there with Elliott
and Lincoln.
Keep sending them over.
California loves to pay to see
them run.
* * 9
The V.F.L. “four” remains
the same after last Satur-
day, even though two
of them, Collingwood and
North, were defeated. Fitzroy,
with a great second-half,
slammed Collingwood 15.15-
8.9, to get ahead of the Magpies
on percentage. Melbourne had
to put on steam in the last
quarter to beat North in an
exciting game 10.12-8.15.
Essendon, continuing its win-
ning run, beat Hawthorn in
the last quarter, too, 11.15-7.7.
St. Kilda, kicking the same
score as did Melbourne, beat
Richmond in a dull game
10.12-9.10. Carlton, though
shockingly inaccurate, still
finished ahead of Geelong
8.21-7.11, and rejuvenated
South was too fast for Foot-
scray, 14.12-8.15.
“Bicky”: The home-ground
advantage in V.F.L. matches
has been well in evidence this
year. Of the 72 games played
in the. first 12 rounds, 54 were
w'on by the home sides. At
that point .Fitzroy had won
only two games away from
home, while Melbourne had
suffered its only two defeats
playing “away” games.
* * *
In Sydney Rugby League’s
match-of-the-day, at the S.C.G.,
West defeated Manly, one man
'short for most of the game,
34-7, running at will through
the Seasiders towards the end ;
when the teams had met earlier
in the season it was much
closer—Manly got there by a
point, 21-20. St. George., which
has a clear lead in the table,
came from behind in the final
minutes against Canterbury
22-11, Newtown was too fast
for Parramaha 31-5, South beat
Balmain with a penalty-goal
after the bell 12-10, and East
defeated North 13-9. Six teams
besides St. George have a
chance to make the semi-finals
....At Auckland, New Zea-
land surprisingly beat Eng-
land in the first Test 15-10.
* * *
After Saturday's round
Manly still heads Sydney Rugby
Union’s table, with 20 points,
with East, Gordon and St.
George all level on 18. Rand-
wick and University still have
outside chances of making the
finals. Manly walloped Uni-
versity 17-3, East downed
Drummoyne 22-9, Gordon ran
over Eastwood in the last
quarter-hour 29-5, after ’Wood
had held the Tartans to a 6-5
lead at half-time, St. George
had a close tussle with North
17-14, and Randwick slapped
down Parramatta 21-6.
* * *
“Ailsey”: Don Tolhurst,
bicycle-rider turned rifleman,
will be Australia’s main hope
in the world-championship
rifle-shooting events in Mos-
cow next month. Five years
ago he gave away competitive
pedalling and became a casual
weekend shooter. He devel-
oped so well on the range that
he represented Australia at
the Melbourne Olympic
Games, where he finished
equal fifth among 60 starters
in the prone rifle-shot event.
At Anzac Range, Liverpool
(N.S.W.), Tolhurst lately
rocked Army experts by scor-
ing -1176 out of a possible
1200 points from the prone,
kneeling and standing
positions.


BALD PATCHES
Hair grown secret formula
Sacred Eastern Oils. Rarely
fails. Treats Alopecia. Leading
broadcaster's bail- grown after
years of Baldness. Effective
treatment for dandruff (Basic
cause of nearly all hair sick-
ness), and stops falling hair.
My herbal treatment restores
grey hair to original colour.
Not a dye—not injurious, not
obvious. ' Karnes given of lead-
ing citizens (with their per-
mission) who gratefully testify.
My treatment used in privacy
of your home.
For free advice write —
MRS. A. EASTON,
Box 5204, G.P.0.,
-MELBOURNE
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
{lncorporated by Royal Charter AD. 1720)
_ Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia: F. H. Egerton,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Manager for Auitraiia.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of the Latin epitaph
written by Dean W. Inge about
1923 in memory of his little
daughter.—6732.
Information Sought
What is cloisonne-ware, and
where is it made ?
It is decorated enamel-ware, the
design being first drawn on metal
and worked in gold- silver- or
copper-wire secured to the metal
with a special gum. The whole is
then clayed over so that the wire
is flush with the" surface and the
design is colored, after which it is
burnt and painted in turn —three
times. The surface is finally
smoothed with a stone, or the
whole may be melted into glass
(vitrified) in a furnace. Cloisonne-
ware is made both in China and
Japan, generally in the form of
vases, bowls and small ornaments.
* * * *
Who was “the man they could
not hang,” and what were the
circumstances of his reprieve ?
He was John Lee, convicted of
murder in Babbacombe, England,
He was reprieved because the
scaffold-drop failed to act on the
three attempts to execute him.
According to Ernest Bowen-
Rowlands, it was the work 61 a
convict, a carpenter by trade, who
slipped-in a small wedge. After
the first failure he withdrew the
showing that the drop
worked efficiently, but twice he
replaced the wedge. Lee’s sentence
was commuted to life-imprisonjnent,
and he was released after 25 years.
Bowen - Rowlands, a barrister,
claimed that the convict confessed
to the trick on his deathbed.
• * * *
Why does twilight increase in
duration away from the Equator ?
Twilight is caused by the inter-
vention, of the atmosphere between
the sun and the earth's , surface.
When the sun is some distance
below the horizon the upper layers
of air remain illuminated and
reflect the light to us. Twilight lasts
until the sun is 18 degrees below
the horizon; its duration depends
on season and latitude, being
governed by the sun’s altitude and
declination. Near the Equator,
where the sun is more directly over-
head, twilight must be much shorter
in duration than near the poles,
where the motion towards the
horizon is oblique.
* * * *
What Australian ‘ vineyards pro-
duce the best (1) sherry; (2) claret?
(1) It is a matter of opinion.
The quality of Australian wines is
constantly improving. It is said
that the most consistent sherries
come from the Watervale district
of S.A., where the varieties of
“I particularly don't Want anything that will make the men whistle me”
grape, the soil and climate are
similar to those of Spain, and where
the wines are matured by the use
of the Flor culture system. (2)
The lighter wines of the Hunter
River (N.S.W.) are characteristic
of this type, but some excellent
clarets are produced in S.A. from
special vineyards which have a fair
proportion of Cabernet Sauvignon
in their blends.
* * * *
How to remove a mottled appear-
ance on the inside faces of the
lenses of fiyld-glasses ?
This, mottled look is due to a
growth of fungus which generates
an acid and slightly etches the
glass-surface. It is impossible to
remove except by repolishing,
which, unless done by an expert,
might ruin the binoculars. The
fungus and spores can be destroyed
with strong nitric acid.
* * * *
What is the situation and func-
tion of the pituitary gland ?
This small gland, lying on the
floor of the cranium beneath the
brain, secretes a substance which
promotes growth of the bones, and
is in other ways essential to life.
It is regarded also as exercising a
controlling influence on the amount
of fat deposited in the body.
Excessive secretion from it produces
overgrowth. Artificial administra-
tion of pituitary extract mitigates
deficiency in the gland.
* * * *
Length, width at mouth, naviga-
bility, and other details of the
Amazon River?
The largest in the world in
volume, and exceeded in length
only by the Mississippi-Missouri,
the Amazon River, which drains
two-fifths of South America, rises
in a chain of glacier-fed lakes in
the main range of the Andes in
Central Peru, about 1000 miles
n.-n.-e. of Lima, and flows for
4000 miles across Peru and Brazil
to enter the Atlantic at the
Equator. It has about 20 main
tributaries, all of them impos-
ing streams. The river is navigable
for ocean steamers as far as Jquitos,
2300 miles from the sea, and a
further 486 miles to Achual Point
for vessels drawing 14ft. of water.
Beyond that it is unsafe, but small
steamers frequently ascend to the
Pongo de Manseriche, just beyond
the Point.
The - average current of the
Amazon moves at about 3 m.p.h.,
although in floods it reaches
5 m.p.h. in contracted channels. The
average depth in the rainy season
is 120 ft. At certain places and
times it reaches four to six miles in
width. The width of the river-
mouth is usually measured from
Carbo do Norte to Punto Patijoca,
207 statute miles, but this includes
the ocean outlet, 40 miles w'ide, of
the Para River, so that the actual
width of the Amazon is 167 miles
at ocean-entry. In its lower course'
it js 400 miles wide.
* * '+ *
Is it still necessary for young
men to register for National
Service ?
The regional director of the
Dept, of Labor and National Ser-
vice advises that, for all British
subjects who turn 18 at any time
before December 31 this year, and
New' Australians who turned 18
between July 1 and December 31
last year, registration for National
Service by August 4 is compulsory,
Failure to do so carries a minimum
penalty of £lO. After the close
of the registration period a ballot
is held to select those - registrants
who are tt> be considered for call-
up. This ballot will be held in


JficiilJi in ihe
rnitwe
To swim in the Sea of Galilee is an experience
any Australian would like. Its waters are sweet;
and fringing its banks at Tiberias, where I swam,
are our own eucalypts, large and thriving in this
mellow climate.
All the way up Israel, after crossing the border
from Jordan. I had seen these Australian gum-trees
flanking the roads and embroidering a countryside
in which Israel is working determinedly—and with
impressive effect—to justify its possession of this
strip of the Promised Land.
Here in Galilee—around Nazareth. Capernaum
and Cana—Christ chose His Apostles and lived
the serene side of His life before beginning His
public ministry. Here we see no shadow of the
Passion, as in Jerusalem. And here I had time for
reflection on my visit to Palestine.
One pervading thought is w'hat the Churches
are doing to guard and preserve the sacred places.
We do not see much of the Greek Orthodox Church
in Australia, where there is a relatively small Greek
community. But that Church has a large part in
the keeping of the Christian shrines. Other
Denominations are doing their part.
The Roman Catholic Church also has made a
considerable contribution. Its Franciscans are
everywhere to be seen amid the churches and chapels
they have raised, as they have been for more than
seven -centuries.
As a member of the Church of England. I pay
my respectful tribute to those great Churches for
what they are doing.
In final reflection on this visit. I would say
this: Tolerance—in religion, and out among the
nations —is most desperately needed in the world
of our time. To meet the organised forces of unbelief
the believers must refuse to have themselves divided
in enmity.
In a church near the crest of the Mount of
Olives is a cloister along the walls of which I saw
the simple words of the Lord’s Prayer inscribed in
large tiled letters in forty-two languages.
And that tells me, at any rate. That in Belief
there are no compartments of race or language.
There is a common denominator in the Faith that
inspires Man, at whatever Altar he may choose to
worship.
//
7
September. Those who fail to
register, in addition to the imposi-
tion of the fine_ may lose their
right to take part in the ballot and
may be called-up lor training regard-
less of the ballot result.
Brief Answers
J.A.G.: The ca'ller has the honors
naturally, having a hand good
enough to call. More detailed
information required to clear-up
your doubt. Advise buying a
book on the game —city book-
sellers will supply a list of those
suitable... .A.KJ.: Cannot trace
the poem beginning: “In 43 a
Roman host irom Gaul assailed our
southern coast”; it sounds more
like one of the jingles to stimulate
the memory for retaining historical
dates G.1.E.: The greatest of
the violin-makers pf the Guarnerius
family was Giuseppe (Joseph)
(1687-1745), A stain or sap-mark
parallel with the finger-board on
both sides appears on the belly
of most of his instruments. A. E.
Smith, violin-maker, of Hunter
Street, Sydney, would quickly
determine whether yours is
genuine or a copy... .E. 8.: Owner
of a properly on the banks of
tidal waters may prevent trespass-
ing thereon beyond high-water
mark... .S.D.L.: It is illegal to
buy tobacco-lVaf without being a
registered dealer; it is also illegal
to manufacture the smallest quan-
tity unless licensed and supervised
by Customs... .P.S.: Vegetable-
ivory comes, from the South Ameri-
can tagua-palm. The fruit, rather
like the coconut, has a woody,
fibrous wail, inside which are the
seeds proper, which are hard, white
and fine-grained, like real ivory.
. ...K.M.: Contact the N.S.W.
Education Dept T.R.: The
bouts in question may have been
exhibitions only and therefore
v/ould not appear in. the official
boxing-books. .. .C.C.K.: The for-
mula is commonly used in connec-
tion with the striking of cuttings,
and has not been tried for the
stimulation of seedlings (which
should develop if protected). At
2ft. high your seedlings are, ready
for budding... .S.L.C.: Cuneiform
is the name given to the form of
writing used in inscriptions by. the
ancient Babylonians, Assyrians,'
Persians and Hittites. The charac-
ters, each of which is in the form
of a wedge, were developed from
earlier ideographs, and, generally
speaking, they represent, not indivi-
vidual letters but syllables or entire
words.... M. 8.5.: An effigy is,
strictly, a sculptured figure on
sepulchral monuments. Of the
Italian Renaissance period, the best
examples are Michelangelo’s splen-
did tombs of the Medici at
Florence....R.T.: The dum-dum
bullet got its name from the town
near Calcutta which was for many
years h.q. of the Bengal Artillery.
It was in the ammunition factory
in this town ’that the expanding
bullet was first produced
A.D.V.: In cinematography, ’’pan-
shots” refer to panning: i.e., mov-
ing the camera cither vertically or
horizontally during the taking of
a shot from the same position. It
is used when" following movement,
such as in motor- or horse-
racing. or a plane rising. In
interiors it is used to produce the
effect of a figure coming into view.
O.L.: “Dry-ice” is the commer-
cial name for solidified carbon-
dioxide. Weight for weight, it has
about 15 times the cooling effect of
ice, and thus a much smaller quan-
tity need be used in refrigeration.
It also has the advantage that its
decomposition product is gaseous.
. ...K.A.: Old-time sailors did
believe that the wearing of ear-
rings improved the eyesight, but the
belief has no medical backing.-
Civilised and uncivilised races have
worn earrings for thousands of
years. In Greek and Roman times
the custom was confined to women,
but in the East it has been
common to both sexes... .F.L.:
“Curtain-fire” is a line of shells
exploded in front of one’s own
advancing infantry to shield them
from attack. It is also laid down
behind an entrenched enemy force
to prevent their reinforcement.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they rnay be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
CJ.: Divorce the Muse....
A.E.: It’s an inspiring title —“Will
Poetry Emerge from Outer Space?”
.. ..N.K..C.: The swearing starlings
are good ; otherwise you need more
point and polish.... D.V.: For a
children’s page.... L.U.: You’re
certainly keeping an eye on the
weather T.K..: It doesn't say
enough—or enough that is new—
for so many words. You’d need
to compact it into a lyric.... M.P.:
The writing is stilted. Try to write
your next article more as you'd
say it, telling somebody the story
in conversation... .Tanda : A most
affecting .tale:
PERIL
’Twas long ago when a family was
travelling
To I .ongreaeb town one day
An accident occurred to their convey-
ance
Which caused theta to pause on their
way.
II took some hours to mend it
Then they tried to get into town
But during the time they’d been de-
layed
Both of the creeks had come down.
Now at the Gin Creeks in the ’eighties
Camped many primitive blacks
B.y campfire at night you’d see them
eorroboree
Painted and adorned for their tribal
acts.
Dark was the night and for safety
They climbed on a tree—
Blacks they could hear in the distance
This man, his wife and children three.
Soon the foaming murky water
Was swirling all around
As terrified they waited
Afraid to make a sound.
During the night the baby started to cry
As though it were in pain
I'll have to kill him the father said
If the blacks hear we’ll all be slain.
But the mother clutched her baby '
And quietened him somehow
Sliei noticed how the water
Seemed to be stationary now.
So long it seemed to morning
When their plight was observed from
the town
Soon a boat came out and rescued them
Aching from their vigil, they were rowed
into the town.
For courage and endurance
it you searched both far and near
Could you find more to admire
Than the pioneer of yesteryear.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
AMERICA IN THE MIDDLE EAST
from a review of
Uncle Sam’s relations with
the Arab world published in
theb U.S. quarterly “Foreign
Affairs” (the joint-authors are
Richard H. Nolte, student of
Islamic law and society at Yale
and Oxford and on field-trips
to the Middle East for the
Institute of Current World
Affairs, and William R. Polk,
of the Centre for Middle
Eastern Studies, Harvard Uni-
versity) :
“The United States made its
first major intervention in
Middle Eastern *aff airs a decade
ago when it lent wholehearted
financial, diplomatic and moral
support to the establishment
ILLINGWORTH, IN LONDON “DAILY MAIL.”
of Israel. From an Arab point
of view, this was a denial of
the principles which the United
States had proclaimed for ‘all
men.’ Did the United States
see no inequality, no injustice,
no unwisdom, they ask, in
supporting the forcible conver-
sion of what to them was
plainly an Arab land into a
Jewish State, or in accepting the
permanent displacement of a
million Arabs from their homes
and property to make room for
an equal number of people
whom Europe had driven
forth? -
“Since this American action
a half-billion, dollars of official
United States assistance has
been given to Israel, amount-
ing to two or three times the
sums contributed to all the
Arab countries combined, and
even private American gifts
have been given a quasi-official
nature by being -made tax-
exempt. In these and other
ways the Arabs have found
goading evidence of their own
/
inadequacy, lack of standing in
our eyes, and inferiority. The
result, in spite of the many
millions of dollars in various
forms of aid which we have
given the Arabs, has been to
lend great impetus to the nega-
tive features of Arab nation-
alism and to render it hostile
to America.
“Although the reservoir of
Arab goodwill toward America'
began to drain away a decade
ago, the rise of the Soviet
Union in Arab esteem began
following the Czech arms r deal
with Egypt; thus it is less than
three years old. Initially, the
Soviet Union had shared our
attitude toward Israel-Arab
relations. Indeed, the survival
of Israel was due in no small
degree to the arms supplied
from Russian - dominated
Czechoslovakia. (The Arabs
bitterly remark that there was
no Western uproar about that
Czech arms-deal.)
“The Czech arms-deal with
Egypt in the summer of 1955
led to a radical change in the
positions of the Soviet Union
and the United States. Pre-
viously, the United States had
promised arms to Egypt con-
tingent upon conclusion of an
Anglo - Egyptian agreement
about British troops in the
Canal Zone. This agreement
was reached in the summer of
1954. Then, in early February,
1955, came the first big Israeli
military attack against Egyptian
armed forces in the Gaza Strip.
“Arms became an urgent
necessity for Nasser if he was.
to retain the lqyalty of his Free
Officers and the Army, upon
whom his control of Egypt
rested. The American Govern-
ment maintained that under
existing legislation it could
provide arms only for cash in
dollars (which Egypt lacked) or
accompanied by a U.S.
military mission, which Egyp-
tian nationalism could not
tolerate. Turning to the Soviet
hloc, Nasser secured weapons
in adequate amounts on very
reasonable terms, payable in
cotton, of which Egypt then
had an unsold surplus.
“The resulting* surge of
alarm in the West and the
immediate arrival of Assistant
Secretary of State Allen .in
Cairo, reportedly with a new
arms-offer, showed Egyptians
the key to American policy in
„. r *
the Mffidle . East: fear of the
Soviet Union. The controllea
Egyptian press accordingly
printed a story asserting that
the Soviets had offered to help
build the High Dam, the huge
$l2OO-million project that
symbolised Egypt’s drive for
economic development and its
major hope for winning the
race against Malthusian starva-
tion. -
“The United States, joined
by Britain and later by the
World Bank, promptly made
a counter-offer as a gesture of
humanitarian generosity. How-
ever, the Soviet offer was an
Egyptian invention ; no real
offer materialised. The Russians
did, however, promise large-
scale assistance for Egyptian
industrial development (which
resulted in a $175-million aid-
agreement late in 1957).
“In May and June of 1956,
Nasser tried to nail-down the
Western offer'; but the United
States, having discovered the
Russian lack of interest, no
longer felt any urgency about
the High Dam. Nasser seemed
to be right about our motiva-
tions, but had overplayed his
hand. When Ambassador
Hussein went to Washington
to ‘put American good faith
to the test,’ the offer was with-
drawn, and in such a way as
to be an inescapable insult to
Nasser. It was stated that
because of the arms-purchases
the Egyptian economy would
be unequal to the task of
building the dam. The in-
ference was that the United
States was unwilling to associ-
ate itself with a losing pro-
position, starving peasants or
no.
“Thus challenged, Nasser
had to reply. His counter-
stroke at the end of July was
to nationalise the Suez Canal
Company. During the tense
four - month deadlock that
followed, and despite the resig-
nation (on September 15) of
100 of the 170 Canal pilots,
Egypt proudly kept the canal in
operation, and the Soviet Union
backed it. The United States
tried to restrain Britain and
France and asserted the prin-
ciple of internationalisation, or
joint-control by the user-nations
(‘collective colonialism,’
according to the Egyptians),
on the grounds—somewhat sur-
prising for the United States
—that control of a vital inter-
national waterway by one
country imperilled free naviga-
tion. The Arabs were quick to
point out not only the parallel
to Panama but the similar issue
that had arisen in 1946 when
Russia wanted to ‘internation-
alise’ the Turkish Straits'and
the United States had stoutly
maintained the principle of one-
nation control.
“The inference drawn by the
Arabs from these episodes was
that an American promise
about arms or a dam was not
necessarily a promise when it
was made to ah Arab; that
failure to secure arms from
the United Slates did not give
Arabs a right to try elsewhere ;
that in American eyes the only
people who counted in the
Middle East (apart from the
Israelis) were the Russians;
that the United States had no
genuine interest in Arab
economic development as such ;
and. that the Arabs were con-
sidered incompetent to run their
own economy or even their own


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
Established 1888
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and t'omm.r. ial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
os*- 1 *
UVajv
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers,. Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORtES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS Si OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER 3
TYPOGRAPHERS -
MONOTYPE AN" T tNOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
canal. In short, the Arabs con-
cluded that Americans did not
look on them as being on the
same level as other peoples or
nations. By contrast, the
actions of the Soviet Union
seemed to shine with a pure
white light.
“For a brief period the firm
stand of President Eisenhower
against the Anglo - French t
Israeli invasion of Egypt
seemed to obliterate the record
of the preceding months and
to regain much of the ground
lost by the United States. Con-
trary to what the Arabs had
expected, the United States did
not back its major European
allies and its Middle Eastern
protege. President Eisenhower’s
action, and his speech about
‘one law' for all, reopened doors
throughout the Arab world.
But the opportunity thus gained
for a fresh start in the Middle
East was soon dissipated.
“Various acts, some of them
comparatively petty, seemed to
give the lie to the President's
stand. For example, when the
Egyptians requested release of
$14,000 of their funds (the
United States had frozen
$14,000 of thfir funds when
the Egyptians Tiationalised the
Suez Canal Company) in order
to purchase medicines for the
victims of the Port Said in-
vasion, they were refused.
This occurred at a time when
dramatic efforts were being
made in the West to aid the
refugees from Hungary, and
the Arabs were quick to draw
the comparison. Egypt’s
attempt to purchase surplus
American wheat, when its own
reserves were almost exhausted,
was similarly turned down.
The medicines and the wheal
were supplied by the Soviet
Union.
“Then the United States
failed to renew the C.A.R.E.
N.Y. “Herald Tribune”
CHIEF COOK AND BOTTLE-WASHER.
programme through which
nearly 3-million Egyptian
children were receding school-
lunches ‘as a gift from the
children of America.’ Such
actions as these made it easy
for many Arabs to believe that
it was .not through our efforts
but rather through the much-
publicised Soviet ‘threat’ to
rocket-bomb London and
Paris that the Anglo-French
invasion had been stopped.
“It was even suggested that
the motivation for (he Ameri-
can position had been a desire
to get control of the canal. In
1951, they recalled, in a
somewhat parallel situation,
the United States had dis-
couraged impending British
military action against Iran to
recover the'nationalised Anglo-
Iranian Oil Company refinery
at Abadan, and within three
years American companies held
a 40 per cent, share in Iranian
oil. They knew little or nothing
of just how that had come
about; the result spoke suffi-
ciently for itself.
“Today Arab nationalists
have come to see the Unite,!
States as a major foe. Into the
breaches which we, either have
made or have not known how'
to prevent, the Soviet Union
has been invited. For capital,
technical assistance, support
and protection, Arabs are
increasingly turning toward the
Soviet Union. In the realm of
ideas, also, this is increasingly
the case. Our basic political
assumptions are often seen in
the harsh light of what Arabs
regard as our non-performance,
our institutions in the pale,
reflected light of Mandate and
Protectorate copies which ofte'n
hindered rather than pro-
moted the social w'ell-being of
the peoples concerned. In
contrast, the Soviet ideas are
new, untried, less complicated
and, to many Asians, exciting ;
Soviet policies seem remarkably
flexible and favorably disposed;
and the Soviet economy has so
far seemed both able and will-
ing to help.
“We cannot and should not
try to prevent the Arabs from
profiting from the help of the
Soviet Union. We should
recognise the fact that the
Soviet Union plays a part in
the affairs of the Middle East
and that, from an Arab point
of view, Soviet offers of
economic, technical and mili-
tary assistance are no less
legitimate than similar Ameri-
can offers. Instead of opposing
Soviet aid for Arab economic
development, and thereby
seeming to oppose the develop-
ment itself, American policy
ought to encourage the Arabs
to get all they can, while urging
a proper watchfulness and the
setting of high standards of
performance.
_“This would range us on the
.side of those things which
Arabs, like most Asians and
Africans, demand of the
future ; it would also reduce the
pressure on us to bid against
the Soviet Union in a Nasser's
game of ‘competitive exploita-'
tion.’
“It will be objected that
backing the ‘constructive' objec-
tives of Arab nationalists
would mean, ultimately, that
Israel would be ‘driven into the
sea.’ But in fact, by making
clear its intent to maintain
peace in the area to the point
of using force against aggres-
sion, the United States would
stand as a bulwark for a peace-
ful Israel no less than for anv
other peaceful State in the
Middle East. This would be
acceptable to Arab nationalists.
The key is equal treatment,
fairness, one law. Arabs will
accept no less ; offers of more
they will not respect. Once
assured on these points, their


feeling about Israel and the
Palestine refugees—now sym-
bols of Western unfairness and
lack of regard for Arabs —
Would lose much of their venge-
ful force. Indeed, this was a
temporary result of our. stand
at Suez.
“Lastly, we must realise that
although our diplomatic con-
tacts are with Governments
and States, these for historical
reasons are rather different in
the Middle East than in
Europe. America ought to
avoid excessive identification
with any particular leader,
party or social class except as
he or it represents the positive
aspirations of the population.
In this, the Soviet Union has
been far more astute than we,
as, for example, in its willing-
ness to work with Nasser
although the latter has banned
the Communist party in
Egypt. The Soviet Union has
never suggested that Nasser is
ideologically in accord with it,
whereas we often seem to
suggest that this is true of
leaders who are equally far
from our basic tenets.
“By maintaining a greater
flexibility w'e can move with
the changes of public opinion:
we can recognise and even bless
such moves as those now in
train toward pan-Arab union.
Failure of that cffeam to
materialise because of apparent
American opposition would
leave the Arabs more hostile
than ever and all the more
dependent on the Soviet Union.
This would diminish the like-
lihood that we could ever reach
and maintain our basic objec-
tives in the Middle East.”
The Need for
Sea-power
Commenting on the objec-
tions to fixed bases for Ameri-
can missiles in Britain “it
must be obvious to anybody
that Russian Intelligence will
soon be able to pinpoint these
‘secret’ bases” Desmond
Wettern suggests in London
“Time and Tide” that “the
obvious alternative is, of
course, to have seaborne
missiles”:
“Water covers two-thirds of
the globe, and a fleet or even
single missile-carrying ships,
and more especially submarines,
could operate practically any-
where at sea, which has no
landmarks to aid the counter-
attacks of a shore-based enemy.
“The use of ships would seem
also to provide an answer to
the arguments of a body of
people who now believe that
our conventional forces are
being cut to such an extent as
actually to encourage war.
These people, senior Serving-
officers among them, point out
that if Russia launched an
attack with conventional forces,
especially in the Middle East,
against the countries supplying
our oil, we could not possibly
retaliate with H-bombs. Yet if
we continue to reduce our con-
ventional forces we shall soon
be in a position where either
we use the H-bomb and face
the consequences of starting a
nuclear war or we surrender
our oil-supplies. Either way
Would seem quite fatal.
“Missile-carrying ships do
seem to provide a way out of
this impasse. Armed with
guided-missiles they could
London “Daily Minor”
“ DON’T LOOK ROUND, BUT I THINK WERE BEING FOLLOWED."
furnish the necessary deterrent
against nuclear war with their
added superiority of mobility
over fixed bases. But the same
ships, using guns and carrying
shock-forces of commandos,
could be used equally well to
put out ‘bushfire’ wars any-
where.
“But there is another aspect
to the argument for an in-
creased use of sea-power. In
the ‘bad’ old days, of British
imperialism, the gunboat policy
played a vital part in securing
our overseas trade. Without the
judicious, and sometimes rash,
use of sea-power in the past
Britain today might be no
more than a third-class agri-
cultural Power; or, indeed,
just an insignificant part of the
German Imperial or National
Socialist empires. Without
command of the seas we
should surely have starved in
1917, and 23 years later there
could have been no Battle of
Britain if the fuel for our
fighters had failed to arrive.
“These are facts which we
should never forget. The vast
military build-up which cul-
minated in the surrender of
Germany and the relentless
drive to Japan in 1945 could not
have been achieved without
command of the sea, which
then, and even more today,
implies command of the air
over the sea.
“If the Russian rfflers knew
that every day in the ‘un-
known paths of the sea’ there
were hard-hitting though not
necessarily large forces waiting
to meet any of their evil
designs, the result might well
be a tone of marked modera-
tion in their aggressive policies,
“It will be said that perhaps
the United States would be
unwilling to sign an agreement
on the subject of seaborne
missiles. If this happened,
which would seem unlikely,
then the money now being
voted to-develop our [Britain’s]
own shore-based missiles could
surely be transferred to sea-
borne - missile development?
As it is, on land, we are largely
duplicating the work of
American scientists.
“To find the reason for the
Government’s reluctance to
develop seaborne missiles is
hard indeed. No matter what
sort of war might break out
we remain an island with 50-
million inhabitants. At present
we import two-million tons of
food, fuel and raw materials
each week.
“Faced as we are by the
greatest submarine fleet the
world has ever seen, backed-up
by several thousand long-range,
shore-based aircraft and
modern ocean-going cruisers
and destroyers, it should seem
obvious to anyone that every-
thing possible should be done
in peace to ensure that our
supplies get through in war.
“Yet soon, to protect our
interests throughout the world,
we shall have three aircraft-
carriers, three cruisers, a heli-
copter-carrier and perhaps 60
destroyers and frigates and 20-
odd submarines. In three years,
since 1955, we shall have
reduced our naval strength by
four battleships, eight aircraft-
carriers, seven cruisers, 26
destroyers, 52 frigates and
hundreds of smaller craft,
During the same period we
shall have, built 24 frigates,
three submarines and about 150
minesweepers. Work on four
guided-missile ships and the
atomic submarine Dread-
nought has not yet begun,
though it is rumored that one
of the former may have been
started.
“That many of the ships
scrapped went in the last
18 months can give [Defence
Minister] Sandys no cause
for pride, especially as'some
of the smaller craft had
never been to sea. Today,
though politicians say the
carrier is the spearhead of the
fleet, we have exactly the same
number of these ships as we
had in 1939, when flying from
ships was still almost a novelty
and had rarely been proved in
war.
'‘Even in a nuclear war the
basic principles of sea-warfare
will remain the same as always:
to safeguard one’s own trade-
routes and deny the enemy the
use of the seas. This maxim
must clearly have been in the
mind of the victor of Matapan,
Viscount Cunningham of
Hyndhope, during his brilliant
speech in the House of Lords.
He pointed out that to beat
the 150 German U-boats at
sea in the height of the Battle
of the Atlantic we needed 880
ocean-going escorts —today we
have 184, all told, against
probably 200 to 250 Russian
submarines likely to be at sea
He referred to our present
situation in these words: \ . .
the unacceptable risks being
run at sea.’ Even with Nato
and [British] Commonwealth
support we could only muster
about 400 ocean-going escorts.”
Cotton Troubles
In 1913 Lancashire, centre of
Britain’s cotton industry, pro-
duced 8000-million square-
yards of cottons and was able


BANKING FACILITIES
pueuly.
f >
ma
Whatever you do in life
you will find the prob-
lems of modern living can
be made lighter by the
extra services provided
by this bank.
There is no more convenient way of paying your house-
hold expenses than with a C.B.C. cheque. If you have regular
commitments, such as insurance payments, etc., the bank will
save you time and worry by paying them for you as they
fall due.
Should you travel in this
country or abroad, the bank can
help plan your itinerary and make
your bookings. It can arrange trade
introductions and provide many
other helpful aids to businessmen.
Its friendly advice is available to
all its customers.
As the bank has a savings bank
subsidiary, the one office provides
all the banking facilities required
by the whole family.
ms'///,
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED J 834
INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
[DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANYI
INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES
to export seven-eighths of that
production. Today production
is less than 1600-million square-
yards, and even its home market
is being considerably eroded by
the import of duty-free cottons
of Commonwealth origin,
mainly from India, Pakistan
and Hong Kong.
Commenting on the general
picture in Britain, Edinburgh
“Scotsman” notes that “since
1955 about 300 mills have
ceased production, and in the
first five months of this year
nearly 50 have closed down,
including some of the most
modern and best equipped
in the industry”:
“In 1954 retained imports
amounted to about 3 per
cent, of home-consumption, but
today they amount to over 15
per cent. It is clear also that it
is the duty-free imports from
India, Pakistan and Hong Kong
that are mainly responsible for
the increasing difficulties the
industry is encountering on the
home market.
“The Labor party, as made
plain in thesr plan of February,
1955, favors the regulation of
imports. The Government,
however, is opposed to the im-
position of restrictions on trade
from Commonwealth countries.
The President of the Board of
Trade indicated that at the
forthcoming conference in
Montreal they will be asking
Commonwealth countries to
buy British nuclear power-
stations and more British air-
craft. How can we ask them
to do that and at the same time
inform them that we are im-
posing restrictions on their
exports?
“The Government favors
voluntary agreements between
industries to limit imports
and they are trying to secure
these soon. If no agreement can
be reached with Hong Kong,
what then? It would appear
that a strong case can be made
out for an inquiry into working-
conditions in the Hong Kong
mills. The allegations that they
are the worst in Asia, if true,
could have detrimental * reper-
cussions on Britain’s prestige
in the Far East.”
Korea—Credit
and Debit
“New York Times” balance-
sheet on Korea eight years after
the Communists staged their
attack:
Credit: “This invasion called
forth a specific action on the
part of the United Nations to
resist and repel an act of
aggression. Some factors, such
as the Soviet absence from the
Security Council by virtue of
their own walkout, obscured
the issue at the beginning. The
action was less than unanimous.
Similarly, only 16 nations
actually put forces into the
field. But the fact remains that
the United Nations did take
action and did make commit-
ments to the cause of freedom.
“Likewise on the credit side is
the fact that the Republic of
Korea, once the invasion was
repelled and an arbitrary
boundary established, has made
remarkable strides in recovery
and progress. Life has gone on.
There has been substantial
rebuilding, democracy has been
preserved, and a chance for a
life in freedom has been given
to those millions who have been
able to make their escape from
the Communist North.”
Debit: “The other side of
the ledger is not so favorable.
The real cause has not been
won. Korea is still divided.
The United Nations is pledged
to its reunification, but it has
not been possible to carry out
this course of action. What
exists is at best an uneasy truce,
not a peace. The free republic
still has reason to fear renewed
invasion. The terms of the
armistice have been flagrantly
flouted by the Communists, to
the military advantage of the
North, throughout the tiresome
period of constant talk of ‘eas-
ing tension’ by the Communists
Moreover, the recent action of
the Soviet Union in declaring
North Korea an ‘integrated’
part of the Soviet satellite
economy makes it plain that
the Communists have no real
intention to permit unification
on free and honorable terms.”


QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Catchment Erosion
Erosion in the snow-country
around Mt. Kosciusko began
years ago. Before and during
the last war Miss Jocelyn
Henderson, whose family
owned Upper Wontagong
station, east from Holbrook
(N.S.W.), realised what was
happening there. In 1947 she
set out the evidence in a
booklet, “Fire or Water?’’,
which showed that allowing the
snowgrass to be burned-off each
summer to provide grazing for
sheep in the higher country was
a penny-wise, pound-foolish
policy. Few people heeded the
warnings
Today there are two more
booklets available. One is a
report on the condition of the
high mountain catchments of
N. S. Wales and Victoria, put
out by the Australian Academy
of Science, Canberra, in 1957 ;
the other .is “The Grazing
Factor and the Maintenance of
Catchment Values in the Aus-
tralian Alps,” by A. B. Costin,
which the C.5.1.R.0. published
this year. They make alarming
reading.
In its June issue of “Rural
Research,” the C.5.1.R.0.
describes the 2000 square-miles
of high mountain country
above the winter snowline
around Kosciusko in these
words:
“There is no more important
area on the Australian con-
tinent.
“The harvest from these
catchments is water. The
potential monetary value of this
water is staggering and in the
highest sections of the
Kosciusko area it can be
reckoned in terms of hundreds
of pounds per acre per year.
Not even our richest farmlands
are capable of giving such high
and sustained returns as these.’’
Already the water which
flows down the Murray from
this catchment is responsible
for production from irrigated
areas in N. S. Wales, Victoria
and S.A. worth £6O million a
year. This will be increased by
at least half as much again
when the Snowy Scheme is
completed, with a total capital-
investment of over £4OO million
“I think they mean us to go down..."
and an annual production of
up to £3O-million-worth of
hydroelectric power as well.
But this huge investment
depends on a protected catch-
ment giving a steady run-off
of water. Once erosion
reached the point where swift,
silt-laden floods came down the
streams the whole thing would
face ruin.
It isn’t generally known—un-
unfortunately—that California
(U.S.A.), which also relies
largely on snow-water for
irrigation, faced a similar
problem years ago. The
higher areas of the Sierras
were used for summer
grazing. The owners of the
grazing-leases said it did no
harm to depasture stock there ;
conservationists said it did.
Finally, the latter won, but
not until grazing stock had
turned many of the alpine
meadows into useless stretches
of bare shingle through com-
plete erosion of the topsoil. In
Australia, grazing-interests are
still using the arguments which
were proved false in California.
There is a strong move afoot
to reverse the decision of the
N. S. Wales Cabinet ending all
grazing-leases above the 4500 ft.
contour-line. It should not be
entertained for a moment.—
H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
Wool Futures
P. R. Rogers (B. 18/6/’5B)
may have put his finger on
something when he suggests
that woolbuyers are manipu-
lating the overseas futures-
markets in order to depress
spot values. These markets
would be quite open to such
misuse, although they are
supposed to function only as an
insurance against depreciation
in value.
It would, of course, be im-
possible to prove that futures-
markets are used for this
purpose, but we become
suspicious if we recall the wide
fluctuations that occur on the
New York Stock Exchange,
where forward buying and
selling is the normal practice,
and that a similar, though
lesser, instability used to afflict
the Australian ‘Changes until
forward dealing was cut out.
Suppose for a moment that
wool futures are being used by
bears to lower spot values. It’s
perfectly legal and nothing can
be done to stop it.
However, I disagree with
P.R.R. that the remedy lies in
establishing a floor - price
system with all the cumbersome
machinery and controls that
would have to be part of it, to
say nothing of the huge amount
of capital that would be
required to operate such a
scheme with any hope of
success. Woolgrowers have
seen and noted the fate of other
primary producers who have
fallen for these marketing-
schemes and want nothing to
do with them.
The rational way to deal with
market - manipulation would
be to meet it on its own
ground and support the futures-
market by buying whenever
there was evidence of bear
operations. No Government
control would be needed, and
only a fraction of the capital
would be required and it
would certainly achieve every-
thing that could be hoped for
from a floor-price scheme.—
Jackpot (N.S.W.).
Women in Public Life
Since Vida Goldstein stood
for Kooyong in 1913 and
: 1914, and lost, a few women
have entered the Federal and
State Parliaments, but few of
them have achieved any real
eminence. Many others, of
course, have occupied posts of
more-or-less distinction in
various branches of public life,
especially in the fields of health
and education. But in general
it is rare to find a woman at the
head of any public institution.
A good many women them-
selves are concerned about this,
and there is a discussion going
on among women of the Liberal
party in N. S. Wales con-
cerning selection as Parlia-
mentary candidates of the
women who offer themselves as
prospective seat-winners. The
subject is becoming more im-
portant with stress being laid
on the need for more scientific
graduates, because women can
sometimes equal men in the
quality of their scientific train-
ing and because they might
be able to take over some of
the work being done by men
who could otherwise, qualify in
one of the sciences.
The principal of Newcastle
(N.S.W.) Teachers’ College (a
man) remarked the other day
that the community could no
longer keep half its best brains


CHATEAU TANUNDA
Stories of the Coastal Lights No. 20
iiik^
555555 555:
:>wv
Cape Otway
The lighthouse at Cape Otway, on the Victorian coast, some
70 miles south-west of Port Phillip Heads, was the second
built on the Australian mainland, and came into use in 1848.
In the early days of colonisation, many vessels travelling
from England to Sydney favoured the route to the South of
Tasmania. Later, they chose the shorter route through Bass
Strait, and their first Australian landfall after voyaging from
the Cape of Good Hope was near Cape Otway.
Since the western entrance to Bass Strait, between Cape
Otway and King Island, is only 52 miles wide, and at that
time there were no lights on the dangerous coasts of King
Island, vessels tended to keep close to the bolder coastline
near Cape Otway. A lighthouse at this spot became especially
important for ships making a landfall at night.
A site was selected in 1846 and a lender was let for the
construction of a tower and quarters for three keepers. Pro-
gress was so slow, however, that the N.S.W. Government
foreclosed the contract in 1847 and took over construction
work. The light, which is 300 ft. above sea level and is
shown from a sandstone tower, was opened in August, 1848,
with Lieut. Lawrence, R.N., as the first superintendent.
Because of difficulty in gaining access to the lighthouse
by sea except in calm weather, an overland track was cut
through the dense forests of the Otway Ranges from the Colac
district, some 40 miles north of the Cape. To-day, the usual
means of reaching the light is by a road from Apollo Bay,
which was made in the 1030’s.
The original revolving light at Cape Otway was supple-
mented in 1881 by a fixed red light. The power of the white
light was increased in 1891, in 1005 and again in 1039. It is
now of 1,000,000 candle power and is visible 24 miles in clear
weather ; the red light has a strength of 400,000 candle
power. A marine radiobeacon was installed at the Cape in
June, 1938, having a range of about 100 miles. In fog, ex-
plosive rockets are fired once every 10 minutes and can
normally be heard for about five miles.
The position of the Cape Otway light is latitude 38° 52'
south, longitude 143° 13' east.
You can have confidence in the quality
of this pure grape brandy
CHATEAU TANUNDA
N.S.W. Agents
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributor of fine spirits for 120 years
CL2O
“She feels the cold.”
chained to the kitchen sink. On
the same day, in Melbourne,
the principal of Melbourne
University Women's College
(a woman) was proposing
pressure-groups to bring to
notice “women’s undoubted
ability for a role in public life.”
She admitted that women, if
given the choice, would prefer
a happy marriage to a success-
ful busmess or public career,
but added that both were
possible. After the main part
of family life was over, she said,
there were still about 20 years
when married women could
serve the community.
In addition, “the noble race
of old maids” could be of great
communal value. There were
“pathetically few” women in
Parliaments, she said, and it
seemed that no political party
was nrepared to give a woman
a safe seat to contest, although
their aid behind the scenes was
welcome.
What is the solution? Better
education for men in the use of
the intelligence of women?—
Charles Meeking (N.S.W.).
Traffic Control
F. A. Edwards (B. 2/7/’5B)
doesn’t mention that he is a New
South Wales vice-president of
the Association of Professional
Engineers, but there’s no axe-
grinding in his suggestion that
engineers should take-over
Sydney’s traffic-planning from
the aldermen. They are pro-
fessionals in the business of
analysing statistical trends and
forecasting needs.
The parting quip of Malcolm
Muggeridge about Australia’s
“tattered backdrop of English
Victoriana' 5 couldn’t be more
to the point. There's a stale
Victorian aroma about official-
dom which doesn’t give engineers
a free rein, even in their tech-
nical fields, and which thinks
that affairs in the technical
penumbra are beyond their
ken. Commonly, most respon-
sibilities of shire councils are
in engineering vein, but just as
commonly the shire clerk is
administrative chief and the
shire engineer must develop the
extra skill of side-seat or
back-seat driving. Acolyte
(N.S.W.)
Taronga Park
While agreeing with “R. 0.”
(B. 18/6/’5B) that native flora
needs safeguarding, I’m some-
what staggered by his statement
that “Taronga Park Zoo
management has done a fine
job with our fauna.”
I would be interested to learn
of anything that Taronga Park
has ever done to advance the
interests of Australia’s birds
or mammals. Has it achieved
any notable breeding-records,
as David Fleay, for example,
did in Victoria? Has it ever
assisted science by keeping and
making available notes on its
captives’ behavior? Has it
ever, as Regent's Park in
London does annually,
informed the public through a
booklet giving details of its
activities, including acquisi-
tions, losses, etc.?
Practically the only virtue of
Taronga Park is its picturesque
situation. For the rest, many
of its enclosures are shabby,
sunless, or otherwise unsatisfac-
tory ; some .are much too
crowded; some are wrongly
labelled, and in numbers of in-
stances creatures unsuited to
each other are penned together.
Overall, there is a lack of
proper arrangement and
general “know-how.”
On various occasions
Taronga has been the subject of
public protests, including a
published charge of faults that
“offend humanity and com-
monsense.” These criticisms
have prompted investigations
and sometimes recommenda-
tions for improvement have
been effected. But not always.
The most recent batch of
suggestions, made by experi-
enced naturalists, fell on barren
ground.
Far from having “done a fine
job” with Australian fauna,
Taronga has merely held a con-
siderable number of birds and
mammals captive (often in
higgledy-piggledy fashion) and
has sent many others, by way
°f “swap” or “trade,” into
exile abroad,
On the other hand, the insti-
tution has to its credit certain
breeding-successes with im-
ported animals (giraffes, etc.',,


and the fact that its charming
site, plus some of the exhibits,
provides a measure of enjoy-
ment (though at quite a price
nowadays) for Mum and the
kids.
Taronga, no doubt, could
render service to Australian
fauna, and if it ever does so
I’ll be glad to share in the
applause. Meanwhile, as Leon
Gellert sagely observed in
“S.M. Herald,” “the best view
there is to be found by standing
at the lower entrance gates and
looking resolutely out over
the harbor.”— Phil Anthus
(N.S.W.).
Ccmmunicm in Asia
Under “Communism in
Asia” (B. 9/7/’5B) the sub-
editor makes me say, “Russia
dare not force him [Mao Tse-
tung] into line until after the
West has been subdued....
Ma0....wi1l not fall into the
trap of assisting in China’s sub-
jugation.” -
I said nothing about China's
subjugation. My rough draft
reads, “If Mao’s assessment of
Russian character is the same
as mine, he will not assist in
that subjugation (i.e., of the
West). He is too shrewd to fall
into such a trap unless some
stupidity of Western diplomacy
pushes him over the edge.”
As printed, the article does
not express my meaning, ami
is a diplomatic faux-pas. It
could seriously offend any
“He always carries a spare."
Chinese who read it. — Jas.
Macansh (Q.).
Public Servants
Perhaps “Khairy” (B.
25/6/’5B) would prefer govern-
ment by dictatorship or by
aristocratic clique? History
suggests that, up to a point and
from the strictly nationalistic
angle, both these systems are
superior to the democratic.
But the virtue of democratic
government lies in the fact that
the voters, or commoners, may
at any time collectively restrain
Governments from acts dia-
metrically opposed to the
franchise reposed in them, or
from acts violently conflicting
with public opinion.
Also, under the democratic
system, a politician (i.e., private
m ern be r, as implied by
“Khairy”) does not “without
reference to his constituents
and his contract with them,
delegate his governmental
functions to public servants.”
Respective Ministers, via
Cabinet (in turn subject to the
censure of Parliament as a
whole), control the activities
of public servants, who do not
as a general rule “produce
regulations which are based
much less upon original pro-
grammes than upon expedi-
ency.” They do produce regula-
tions and programmes of
public works based on and
sanctioned by bills passed
through both Houses and on
revenue available at the time
and/or provided in the Esti-
mates.
Of course, disgruntled
electors never tire of jibing at
or blaming public servants for
the inconsistencies or failures
of Governments. Actually, the
average public ser-
vant (open to mostly
destructive criticism
as he is, and denied
the right of personal
reprisal) enforces
regulations and per-
forms his daily tasks
with considerably
greater devotion to
duty for considerably less
immediate reward than the
average worker for private
enterprise. Indeed, he has
no option his oath of
allegiance to the Crown
deprives him of most of those
loopholes or expediencies for
avoiding his responsibilities to
the public which are in fact
enjoyed by the mass of the
population.
In short, Governments
elected by the people for the
people frequently fail to per-
form the tasks for which they
are broadly elected, not so
much because of the short-
comings of the politicians (or
public servants), but mainly
because of the appalling
political apathy of the majority
of the electors themselves.—
P. O. MacCabe (N.S.W.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 497
Across
I—Entertainer who isn't brave at Christmas? (4, 6)
6—Some sudden spectacular political move-up after
business. (4)
9—Communicators of rabies make a prelate go back in
manuscript. (3, 4).
10 —American tramp to the wharf is not so smooth. (7)
12— Platform aids must be arranged if it is to be said
differently. (4)
13 — Angles originally mingles hen with confusion. (10)
15— This makes me inform us who
talks to the Roman holiday-
makers at the start of “Julius
Caesar?” (8)
16 — Changing in near Verdi’s
opera. (.6)
19— Editor, after nothing, immersed
in it! (6)
20 — A source of ill-feeling between
Britain and U.S.A. (8)
22—Labor being displaced by this
French to the cat at Idriess. (10)
24 —Article about a two-dimensional
thing. (4)
27 He doesn’t spare the sarcasms
from the south angle. (7)
28— Hard cushion has to punch. (7)
29 Mad delight of squirrels. (4)
30 — Hypnotic state of a Belgian
battlefield utensil used in
church. (10)
Down
1 — Notice discouraging the crazy
wanderer. (5)
2 Exhibiting French in godly
muscular twitch. 1 (9)
3 Business on the black! (4)
4 Pug win is the outcome of giving
instruction to the inexperi-
enced. (6, 2)
5 Obscene king-emperor without
hair. (6)
7 Quality of provoking hate. (5)
8— Dad managed to duck one cur-
rent mental case. (9)
11—Fail to give proper care to haze
about a preposition. (8)
14 —Tree on an island councillor. (8)
15 —9-across and 13-across go out
in it, according to 1-across. (6, 3)
17 — P.M. chasing no preposition. (9)
18- —Sharpener he is after in parts of
Greek drama. (8)
21 —Department of a newspaper
street before nothing. (6)
23 —Tutor spoilt the subject of a
Schubert song. (5)
25 — An outside deer turned-up in this
joint. (5)
26 — He rules the arts badly. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 496


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. .. .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; £ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965. Wellington. N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; | year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to "The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
HOME IS THE FLAG
By V. W. COCKS
T was very interested in John
-*• Laffin's story of “Diggers
Who Stayed Behind” in the
Anzac Day issue of The
Bulletin. He recounted the
story, told him by Roily
Goddard, of Amiens, of a
Digger of the 9th Field Ambu-
lance restoring to a French
village a flag souvenired dur-
ing the war.
I happen to be that Digger,
and the story of the flag is as
follows:
Towards the end of March,
1918, after the German break-
through at Cambrai, the Aus-
tralian Army Corps was
ordered south to the Somme,
and a detachment of the 9th
Field Ambulance (3rd Div.)
set-up an advanced dressing-
station in the village school at
Cachy, south of Villers-
Bretonneux. During a heavy
bombardment the school was
destroyed, and one of the boys
rescued from the ruins a
banner which he brought back
to Australia.
At the many subsequent
reunions of the unit in Sydney
the banner was displayed with
other souvenirs, until 1954,
when it was resolved to return
it to Cachy with the felicita-
tions of the 9th Field Ambu-
lance (Ist A.1.F.) Association.
This banner was duly handed
to the French Consul in Sydney,
who sent it to Paris to be
passed on to the authorities
in Cachy, who, it was felt,
would appreciate the gesture as
a reminder of the links forged
between Australia and France
during the war.
No news of its receipt had
reached us, so, being in Eng-
land in 1956, I decided to hop
across to France to find out
if the banner had reached its
destination. In due course my
wife and I alighted from the
train at Amiens station, and,
looking through a list of hotels,
our choice almost inevitably
fell upon one called “Anzac.”
This led us to Roily Goddard,
who, upon hearing our mission,
placed himself and his car at
our disposal.
What a find Roily was! He
seems to be the general facto-
tum round Amiens and acted
as our interpreter. The fol-
lowing day he took us to the
school at Villers-Bretonneux,
where the children welcomed
us with a song in English—■
“The Happy Wanderer.” A
placard on the wall in all
other classrooms bore the
inscription, “N’oubliez jamais,
L’A ustralie.”
On the wall outside is set a
bronze plaque with the follow-
ing inscription:
This school-building is the gift
of the schoolchildren of Victoria,
Australia, to the children of Villers-
Bretonneux as a proof of their love
and goodwill towards France. 1200
Australian soldiers, the fathers and
brothers of these children, gave
their lives in the heroic capture
of this town from the invader on
24th April, 1918, and are buried
near this spot. May the memory
of great sacrifices in a common
cause keep France and Australia
together for ever in bonds of friend-
ship and mutual esteem.
The three miles to Cachy
passed in much less time than
I remembered it on March 29,
1918, with full pack up, after
a three-days’ trek from
Doullens. At the outskirts of
the village we met on the steps
of the new mairie a young man
who proved to be the head-
master of the school and town
clerk (the offices seem to be
combined, as are the school
and town-hall building). Hav-
ing been told of our intended
visit, he led us to the mayor.
The mayor was a farmer,
and through the gateway we
stepped into the typical court-
yard, with cesspit, fowls and
geese, and were admitted into
the kitchen. How well we
had got to know this communal
room of the French farm in
our billeting days! The
farmer-mayor had come in
from the fields for lunch, and
his wife and children were
present. We were not un-
expected, of course, but they
did not know the exact day
of our arrival. We were intro-
duced all round and sat down
along the table.
The stove was going and
keeping the room cosy. The
ragout pot was steaming and
filling the air with an appetis-
ing aroma. It was icy outside.
Papa ordered the wine and
Mama poured it. In the mean-
time we were joined by another
citizen, the garde du village,
and the conversation soon
warmed, with everyone explain-
ing everything to everyone else
at once.
My Digger friend was the
mainstay. He spoke with no
attempt at French pronunci-
ation but with a strong Aus-
tralian accent. I wondered how*
he got away with it. I came in
with a stock phrase and a bit
of gesticulation now and
again, which only added to
the general merriment. There
were more drinks and toasts of
"‘Vive la France” and “Vive
L’A ustralie”
The mayor was a fine, genial,
big-framed man of about 65,
who had fought in World
War I and had been mayor of
the village for about 40 years.
With the aid of my Digger
friend, who was getting a big
kick out of all this, I described
the evacuation of Cachy and
the saving of the banner. They
became very emotional about
it all, and the old man thanked
me over and over again and
asked me to convey to “mes
camarades ” his appreciation of
the return of the banner and
of Australians generally for
what they had done around
Villers-Bretonneux.
But where was the banner?
Oh,' that was with the mayor’s
son, who, as chief of the fire-
brigade, was the official
custodian. So we went round
to the son’s place—he was also
a farmer. The fire-brigade was
apparently a voluntary associ-
ation of villagers. Before leav-
ing, the major and his family
posed for me up against the
cesspit and I photographed
them. They all came out to
see us off after much shaking
of hands, and as I was about
to step into the car the old
chap, overcome with emotion,
suddenly embraced me in true
French style and kissed me
on both cheeks. I must say that
I was having a struggle with
my own emotions, and in
returning the compliment I was
glad of the opportunity of
hiding my eyes against his
shaggy whiskers. He was
indeed a fine fellow.
The schoolteacher-town-clerk
then took us round to the
son’s place, where we went
through a similar ceremony—
under the big gateway and past
the steaming mound of stable-
refuse where the chooks were
warming their feet. A platoon
of ducks marching in column*
of-route held us up for a
moment and we gained the
kitchen door and were soon
in the warmth, sitting round the
table.
The son and his wife were
there, and down came the wine-
bottle again. My wife was feel-
ing the effects of the previous
engagement, but her protest
was waved aside. There were
more drinks, more toasts, and
more excitement. Then the son
went inside and brought out the
flag.
There it was, just as 1
remembered seeing it last, and
I handled it to make sure. It
had been mounted on a
standard, and the son told us
its history. His grandfather,
who had been mayor before his
father, had made it and pre-
sented it to the fire-brigade.
When they returned to the
ruined village after the war
most things were lost, and
when the flag reappeared after
its long absence the old dad
broke down in tears. Before
leaving I took it outside and
posed it against the stable with
the son and his wife, and took
a photograph. There was much
handshaking, and we left and
made our way back to Villers-
Bretonneux.


ROYAL JELLY
Direct from the bees. One month’s
supply in capsules £5/5/- airmail
post free: free leaflet.
REX PEACOCK.
Apiarist, 21 Carbine Street.
KEKANG, VICTORIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
WHAT WE EAT
A book by R. C. Hutchin-
son, Food for the People
of Australia (Angus and
Robertson), although not of
direct agricultural interest, has
an indirect interest: and not
simply that which derives
from the argument that agri-
culture is the broadest of the
sciences—which, of course, it
is-—and that therefore just
about everything, from aero-
nautics to psychiatry, relates
to it; as, very probably, here
and now, most things do.
What most Australians eat,
what they prefer to eat, what
particular groups can afford
to eat, and what people should
and should not eat are all
fascinating subjects which
may or may not interest indi-
vidual farmers and graziers as
consumers —since they, too,
eat; probably, judging by
Hutchinson’s general com-
ments, unwisely—but should
interest them as producers.
National eating-habits
obviously affect the prosperity
On the ranges of the
United States West
tests have proved the
benefits which sheep
derive from inexpen-
sive plastic shelters of
plastic film fitted on
light pole-type frame-
work. These shelters
have prevented heavy
sheep losses from
severe rain-storms dur-
ing the lambing
season. A high degree
of protection from
set-back and shock can
be expected when
lambs are marked
and tailed by Elas-
trator Rubber Rings.
This modern method,
used by the most pro-
gressive graziers, re-
duces losses.
of a range of primary pro-
ducers, from market-gardeners
to breeders of beef-cattle, and
with the growth of population
the importance of the home-
market will become greater,
not less. Similarly, what most
of us eat, can’t afford to eat,
“Dis pfella bin ahead of his time!”
etc., depends to no small
extent on the state of agricul-
ture.
A note by the publisher
claims that the book has been
written “to meet the imme-
diate need for an authorita-
tive appraisal of the food-
consumption and feeding pat-
tern of the Australian
people”: which implies that
there is nothing of the kind
in print, outside specialist
publications.
If this is so, the value of
Food for the People of Aus-
tralia, both as a reference and
as a piece of reading provoca-
tive of thought, is so much the
greater. Clearly written, it
has, with a number of photo-
graphs, some useful diagrams,
and also a glossary of scien-
tific terms and conversion
factors for weights and
measures. It was written, the
author states, “for students
and educated laymen, as well
as for dietitians and medical
practitioners,” and Hutchin-
son, a B.Sc. (Tas.) and D.Sc.
(Melb.), is an officer of the
food-research section of the
Department of Trade in Mel-
bourne and a member of the
nutrition committee of the
National Health and Medical
Research Council: so the
scientific respectability of
material used and conclusions
arrived at seem to be beyond
any layman doubts.
Of particular interest to
one group of primary pro-
ducers is a comparison of
butter and margarine (pages
71 to 78). There are several
earlier references (for instance,
page 7):
There is little doubt that the
large increase in the consumption
[of butter] over the last 50 years
has had a beneficial effect on the
health of the people, largely
because of the fat-soluble vitamins
it contains.
Followed by a sentence which
another group will like less:
Unfortunately, the same cannot
be said for sugar.
Again (page 32):
The latest annual consumption-
figures for butter and margarine
are 29.31 b. and 31b. per head
respectively. Much of the mar-
garine available for consumption
is of inferior quality. This, unfor-
tunately, is the only margarine
generally available in the smaller
cities and more remote localities.
But a more detailed com-
parison is made later. Since
this is a subject which has
been somewhat clouded by
rival commercial claims,
Hutchinson’s non - partisan
opinion is worth having.
After reading what he has
to say about the history of
butter-making in Australia
and how butter is made, the
dietetic importance of butter
can be summed-up in the
paragraph:
Butter contains both vitamin-A
and vitamin-D. Its vitamin-A
value may vary from 11,000 to
25,000 International Units per
pound, although an average figure
of 18,000 International Units is
usually quoted. Hence the con-
sumption of 8 ounces of butter
per week would provide an adult
with 16 to 36 per cent, of his
vitamin-A requirements. This
would be made-up of pure
vitamin-A and its precursor caro-
tene, which represents 90 per cent,
of the yellow color in butter and
is not produced by the cow’s
digestion, but is derived directly
from the feed consumed. This
accounts for the seaonal variation
in the total vitamin-A value of
butler.
The historical and technical
background of margarine is
less well known than that of
butter, and is interesting:
The invention of margarine is
a comparatively recent develop-
ment. In Europe, in the middle
of the 19th century, butter was
produced in insufficient quantity to
meet the condition resulting from
population migrations to the cities,
and a general recession in agricul-
ture. Butter production in over-
seas countries, such as Australia
and New Zealand, was still in its
infancy and could do little to
relieve the shortage. The situation
in France was particularly difficult,
and the French Government
decided to offer a prize for a suit-
able substitute that would be
cheaper and keep better than
butter. A Frenchman won the
prize with margarine and was
gi anted a patent for his process
in 1869. Production started in
France the following year and in
Australia about 30 years later.
Margarine (Hutchinson
notes) has been subject to hos-
tile Government legislation in
many countries, but during
recent years, largely as a result
of increased agitation by mar-
garine - manufacturers, there
has been a relaxation of
margarine restrictions in many
overseas countries and, to some
extent, this has has also been
the case in Australia:
In New South Wales, section
22A of the Dairy Industry Act,
1915-1951, provides that no person
shall manufacture table-margarine
unless he holds a licence, which
limits the quantity he can manu-
facture ; the Act also fixes the
maximum of the aggregate quan-
tity for which licences may be


for maximum control of
m sheep of all ages
First of the liquid phenothia-
zine drenches . . . tested and
checked over many years'
Australia-wide use ... Elliotts
PHENZEEN PLUS en-
sures the fullest effective
control, the greatest con-
venience in drenching,
that can be achieved with
phenothiazine.
DRENCH WITH
J
m
i:Cfi
If you" prefer
"POWDER . . . order
Elliotts PHENZEEN (Pheno-
thiazine Powder) in the
same fine particle size, sup-
plied in cans, ready-to-mix.
granted for any year. In 1954 a
prosecution was launched against
a Sydney firm for manufacturing
margarine without licence for sale
in other States. Counsel for the
defendant claimed that section 22A
of the Dairy Industry Act was void
by reasons of the provisions of
section 92 of the Commonwealth
Constitution that establishes the
freedom on mter-State trade. The
™fnSToid he ! d S S ; c r n a
case, and had the decision been
otherwise restrictions on the manu-
facture of table-margarine would
have virtually disappeared.
Hutchinson records that the
original margarine was made
by carefully rendering tallow
from the animal carcass, sub-
mitting it to a slow process of
crystallisation, and then press-
ing it hydraulically to separate
the hard white oleostearine
from the softer oleomargarine,
which had much the same
melting-point as butter. It
also resembled butter in
appearance and flavor and
could be readily plasticised.
This soft fraction was then
dispersed in milk plasma, and
the resultant cream subjected
to the usual butter-making
process. After the watery
fraction had been drained
away the remaining granular
mass was kneaded and salted,
when it closely resembled
butter in appearance and
general composition:
Hence, the basic principles
involved in making the first mar-
garine, namely, the preparation of
a suitable fat, the mixing of this
fat with an aqueous liquid to form
a creamlike'emulsion, the solidifica-
tion of this emulsion into a granu-
lar mass and the kneading and
salting of the mass by the methods
normally used for the making of
butter have remained up to the
present time. There is now, how-
ever, a much wider variety of high-
grade fats and oils with which to
work, and these, together with the
development towards the end of
the 19th century of a technique for
refining oils and fats, have resulted
in a product that has improved in
quantity to a corresponding degree,
Margarine, Hutchinson adds,
can be prepared from animal
or vegetable fats, or a blend
of both. A typical margarine
blend might, for example,
consist of 70 per cent, oleo-
margarine, 20 per cent,
peanut-oil, and 10 per -cent,
premier jus (a fat obtained
from selected parts of cattle).
The fats and oils are first
refined to eliminate foreign
impurities in the crude oils,
deodorised to remove the
volatile matter responsible for
characteristic smells, and all
or part of the liquid oil hydro-
genated by the catalytic addi-
tion of hydrogen to convert it
to solid fat. A wide variety
of different fats may be pro-
duced by the process of selec-
tive hydrogenation; it is in
this respect that marine oils,
such as whale-oil, with their
greater variety of fatty acids,
offer greater scope than vege-
table oils such as peanut-
oil:—
In Australia vegetable oils most
commonly used for margarine
manufacture include peanut-oil,
coconut-o.il and cottonseed-oil. Of
the non-vegetable oils, whale-oil is
sometimes used. The most com-
monly used animal fats are premier
jus and the fractionated product,
oleomargarine. Some grades of
lard are sometimes used and occa-
sionally oleostearine, although the
latter is too hard for good-quality
table-margarine. Since the intro-
duction of the hydrogenation pro-
cess, premier jus has been largely
superseded by hydrogenated fats in
many overseas countries, but is still
of importance in Australia.
Palm-oil is sometimes used to
deepen the color of margarine and
give it the appearance of butter.
Some time after the First World
War a prosecution was launched,
under the New South Wales Dairy
Industry Act, against Lever
Brothers for contravening the Act
by adding artificial coloring to
margarine. Lever Bros.’ counsel
successfully argued that the use
of palm-oil did not contravene the
Act, since it was a vegetable oil.
It is now' almost universal
practice for table-margarine to
be fortified with vitamin-A
and vitamin-D, so its vitamin
content is slightly higher than
that of average butter. Digesti-
bility and food-value seem to
be about the same. Also: —■
Margarine possesses two practi-
cal advantages under certain con-
ditions. Firstly, by varying the
manufacturing process it is possible
to vary the melting-point, and
hence the “spreadability” of the
product for use under different
climatic conditions. In warmer
climates, or during the summer
months, the disadvantages of butter
with a low melting-point and the
advantages of margarine with a
high melting-point are apparent.
Secondly, margarine is compara-
tively free from bacterial con-
tamination, and hence has better
keeping-qualities; the lactic-acid
bacteria, used to ripen the milk,
have no lipolytic [lipase is a fat-
splitting enzyme found in butter
and milk] effect and often assist in
suppressing harmful contaminating
organisms.
As well, of course, mar-
garine is cheap. Australian
butter-consumption has been
fairly constant over the past
four years, but margarine-con-
sumption has increased seven-
fold over this period. By and
large, Hutchinson seems to
think the tendency is a good
thing. He notes such short-
comings as that “First-quality
margarine is not available in
all States, and much of that
available is of such an inferior
quality it is not likely to pro-
mote the popularity of the
product for table use,” and
also sees dangers to the
economy if the change is too
sudden. But “Milk is best
utilised as such, and not after
the more valuable skim-milk
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(17/7/’58)
Most of Queensland will probably have only poor rain-
fall during August, apart from, light to moderate patchy
rains on the coast and highlands. Moderate rain should
fall in southern Queensland in September, with good
general rains in December.
Reasonably good rains are indicated on the coast
between Port Macquarie and Jervis Bay during August, with
light to moderate patchy rains elsewhere in N.S.W. There
should be moderate to good rains in a large part of the State
during September, though- the North Coast and the far-
western area are likely to have only light rain. General
rains are indicated for December. ,
There should be reasonably good rains in the southern
half of Victoria and in the western areas during August, but
the Mallee and northern divisions will probably get only
light rain, with light to moderate rains in these two areas
during the spring, though good rains should continue in the
southern half of the State.
Moderate to good rains are likely in a large part of
South Australia during August, but the Murray Valley is
likely to have only light to moderate rains, with poor rains
in the upper-north and interior areas.
The Agricultural areas of Western Australia will
probably have only light to moderate rains during August,
but good rains should come in September.
LENNOX WALKER.


ASM for Better Health . . .
WIN a Victory over
RHEUMATIC PAINS
with our
NEW FORMULA
Positive Belief to Rheumatic
Pains, Backache, Sciatica,
Fibrositis and Neuritis.
Don't delay write NOW for
details to: —
CAVENDISH
LABORATORIES,
Dept. C, Box 2118 T,
Melbourne, C.l.
KllP moms SAFE!
sitfctli/
Correspondence, invoices.
statements, etc., filed in the
“Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted info a
perfect book oi reference at
the end of each month —O?
any other period.
.■/TO
Price* and fur*
Iber Information
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing
MELBOUBNS Norman Broa. Pty. Ltd
ADELAIDE * . Vardon Frlc« Ltd
PERili , Doakct Bml Cc tA«»L)
“Don t you Worry, miss! Just leave the crocs, to me”
portion has been separated
and used for some secondary
purpose. Furthermore, the
amount of land suitable for
dairying in Australia is at
present a limited resource, and
an acre of land suitable for
the production of a vegetable-
oil crop produces far more fat
than the same amount of land
used for milk-production.”
The main weaknesses of the
Australian diet, it seems, are
excessive consumption of
sugar and a low consumption
of calcium, thiamine (one of
the B-vitamins), and, possibly,
ascorbic acid.
Regarding the last point,
a chart on page 168 illustrates
the drop in the ascorbic-acid
content of various groups of
fruit and vegetables over a
period of 15 days. In pota-
toes and oranges the drop
is slight; in carrots, swedes
and turnips the line drops
from 100 to around 25 ; in
soft fruits and green vege-
tables, from 100 to a couple
of points. Hutchinson recom-
mends a kitchen-garden.
Australia, it is noted, has
the highest sugar-consumption
per head of any country in the
world. Except as a source of
energy, and as a pleasant taste,
there seems to be very little
to be said for sugar. Mr.
Hutchinson says a good deal
against it, going into its
influence on dental caries,
obesity and diabetes in some
detail, and noting that sugar
requires considerable amounts
of thiamine for its complete
conversion to energy: “A diet
high in sugar and low in
thiamine, which is the position
regarding many Australian
diets, may result in the inter-
mediate products of carbo-
hydrate metabolism accumu-
lating in the tissues. This
could cause lethargy, tired-
ness, and lack of sustained
interest.”
On the other hand, sugar
is a major primary product,
and supports a large industry
with a host of by-products,
ranging from such useful ones
as building-materials to such
pleasant ones as rum. It is
also, on the world market, a
surplus crop.
These points, and related
ones, such as the international
sugar agreements and the
special status in Australia of
C.S.R., do not come within
the scope of this book. A
knowledge of them does, how-
ever, lend a cetain piquancy
to Hutchinson’s remarks.
J.F.
Victorian Sheepshow
Every sign points to this
year’s Sheep show at Mel-
bourne Showgrounds being an
outstanding success in fact,
the best ever.
The Australian Sheep-
breeders’ Association reports
an all-time record entry total-
ling 1300, rnade up by:
Merinos, 427; Polwarths,
135; Corriedales, 182; Poll
Dorsets, 43 ; British-breeds, 513
(121 Border Leicester, 72
Romney Marsh, 167 Dorset
Horn, 39 Ryeland, 69 South-
down, 332 Cheviot and repre-
sentative exhibits of Lincoln
and Shropshire).
There will be a line-up of
14 groups of five Merino sheep
(3 rams and 2 ewes) for the
Lionel Weatherly Perpetual
Trophy. It’s announced that
these groups are to be judged
with due regard to type and
uniformity in breeding.
Judging-day is this Friday
(August 1); Show Day, Satur-
day. The sheep-dog trials
(July 31 to August 2), will be
the “Tucker Box” Open and
the Juvenile, and qualifying
heats for dogs competing in the
Royal Show Open and Juvenile
trials will be held concurrently
with them.
Fertility of Grass-seed
“Bigend”: How long wilt
grass-seed remain fertile in the
ground?
Roughly 35 years ago, spear-
grass was a nuisance in certain
parts of Central Queensland'
and became so bad that many
stations which ran a few sheep
gave them away. Closer-settle-
ment and heavy stocking with
dairy-cattle cleared out most
of the grass, helped by culti-
vation. About the mid-’thirties,
you wouldn’t have found more
than an isolated clump of
spear-grass in the whole place.
I went back to those districts
recently, and the thing that
-struck me most was the heavy
growth of the spear-grass, even
in Rhodes-grass paddocks.
Where has it come from? It
can’t have been introduced
overnight over such a large
area of country. The only con-
clusion I can come to is that
the seeds have lain dormant in
the ground and have suddenly
come to life with a good season.
But 30 years or more is a long
time for even a seed to sleep!
Any other suggestions?
Massey-Ferguson 65
The new Massey-Ferguson 65
tractor (big-brother to the
Ferguson 35) has a high power-
weight ratio, and is suitable for
one-man operation.
The 65’s four-cylinder diesel-
engine (Perkins P 4 TA 50.5
b.h.p.) has a 3.5 in. bore and sin.
stroke, giving a displacement of
192.5 cubic-inches. It has six
forward speeds and two reverse,
ranging from a low-gear crawi
at 0.3 m.p.h. at 500 r.p.m. to
road-coasting 13.79 m.p.h.
Features of the machine are:
finger-tip control of the
attached implement (by means
of levers at the right of the
driver’s seat); removable dry
cylinder-liners; the safety
starter-switch, which won’t
function when the tractor is
in gear ; and the tractormeter,
a “tell - it - all” instrument


THE BACKBONE OF THE FINE WOOL INDUSTRY
TASMANIAN MERINOS
A great majority of the high priced fine wool clips of Australia owe their success to the infusion of
Tasmanian Saxon Merinos
Year after year, clips using- rams from
“ROSE NEATH"
"WiNTQN" "RHODES"
"V ALLEYFIELD" "KENILWORTH"
"PLEASANT BANKS"
establish records at wool sales.
The following Australian Seasonal wool records have been established by these clips using Tasmanian rams:
1958:
. SCOTT 405 id.
25 bales over 200 d.
1957:
SCOTT 503-2-cL
41 bales over 200 d.
1956:
SCOTT 369d.*
10 bales oyer 200 d.
195&:
SCOTT 420 d.
101 bales over 1 OOd.
1954:
ED (in box) 255 d.
55 bales over 150 d.
The famous superfine Merino Clip branded VALLEYFIELD made up to 402]d., with 18 bales making over
200 d., while L/ROC clip sold up to 393] d. with 27 bales over 200 d.
TASMANIAN FINE MERINO BREEDERS’ ASSOCIATION,
Phone: LAUNCESTON B 1121
J. S. MILLEN, Secretary,
1-21 St. John Street,
LAUNCESTON, Tasmania.
W'hich gives engine-revs., speed
in all gears, standard P.T.O.
shaft-speed, belt-pulley speed
and total hours worked.
The 12.28 rear-wheel treads
are adjustable from 56in. to
84in. tracks: front-wheels
can be moved in 4in. stages
from 48in. to 80in.
Poultry Records Pay
“Sundowner”: A record of
operations on a poultryfarm is
just as necessary as in a busi-
ness and will pay dividends in
increased efficiency.
Main things to watch are
rate-of-lay, mortality figures,
feed-costs and egg-returns.
Competition results show
that to cover feed-costs a biid
should lay 100 good-quaiity
eggs. Before all expenses are
covered and profit begins a
further 25 eggs are needed from
each bird.
Records will show rate-of-
lay from different strains of
stock. Also, they will give
guidance on the point that very
little profit can be expected
from old birds, and so it’s
necessary to turn-over the flock
after maximum, productiveness
has passed. Records are also
valuable in showing returns
from pullets hatched at
different times of the year.
Again, as feed-costs represent
70 per cent, of the total
expenses on a poultryfarm,
records can indicate the best
type of feed to keep costs as
low as possible. Mortality-
records for chickens and layers
can indicate the need for im-
proved husbandry. Records are
also useful when preparing tax-
returns.
Beekeeping
“Hummer”: Bees have
buzzed gaily through these
pages lately—let me add my
bit. Back in the 1890’s, when
prices of wool were low, a
selector in the St. George
district (S.Q.) showed a sudden
affluence at a time when
pennies counted. His sheep-
numbers were down by a
shearing-count. - He was a
mystery. Then he divulged his
secret to William Ross Munro,
of Boombah, the local pastoral
king.
He had captured a couple of
swarms of wild bees, com-
monly called “English” bees,
though their breeding was
doubtless a mixture. Building-
up on them, he had found they
paid better than sheep.
“They don’t take no lookin’
after,” he explained. “They
work all th’ time.”
After a while, though, that
selector didn't look so pros-
perous. He admitted to Ross
Munro that' something was
wrong: “They don’t pay as
well as they used to. Th’ price
is good, but I don’t get near as
much honey now. I’ve got
more hives. Th’ cow's is goin’
on strike.”
Ross Munro was a stock-
man —sheep and cattle —but he
was practical with any form of
animal life. He had a look
over the property and the hives,
and gave his opinion: “You’ve
got the place overstocked. Its
carrying-capacity is limited.
The country won’t'' carry that
many bees to the acre.”
The selector went back to
sheep and lived happily ever
after. He ran a few bees ; but
never overstocked again, - and
did not rely on them for his
income.
Farm Hints
“Big Billy”: After buying
pigs see that they are “quaran-
tined” for three weeks when
first brought on to your
property. This can save heavy
losses from infectious diseases,
risk of which is particularly
high during the winter months.
The “quarantine” is advisable
for both stud and store pigs.
“Shingle”: Don't risk wet
or mouldy grain on your stock.
It can be poisonous. Certainly
don’t feed it to a whole herd
or flock without first testing it
on one or two.
“C.A.A.”: Graziers and
others should welcome the news
from the U.S. that a chemical
control has been found for
tough, deep-rooted, broad-
leaved- and bulbous perennials.
Persistent weeds like hoary
cress, Cape tulip, and even
couch and kikiyu, should be
more easily dealt with when the
preparation comes on the
market. It is based on dimethy-
lamine salt of trichlorobenzoic
acid and called Tr y ben 200.
Claimed that one treatment will
muzzle the toughest weeds for
at least a year.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
There was great applause from all
round the Royale Ballroom when the
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, announced
that the total raised for the Cancer Cam-
paign appeal (now ended) had reached
£.1,350,602, of which the Women’s Com-
mittee, headed by Mrs. Sidney Baillieu
Myer, had raised £lOO,OOO. The meeting,
which was followed by afternoon-tea,
was given so that Sir Dallas could thank
all those responsible for organising the
appeal.
Lady Brooks, who was patroness of
the Women’s Committee, chose a
sapphire-blue wool suit with a relaxed
look in the jacket. She added a petal-
cap in matching blue melusine. Mrs.
W. J. Kilpatrick, wife of the campaign
chairman, wore a mist-blue wool suit
and a Parma-violet velour cap. Mrs.
Baillieu Myer contrasted her fine black
wool frock with a cap of scarlet leaves
mounted on black. The Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. F. W. Thomas, wore with her slim
black suit a small scarlet bonnet-shaped
cloche.
Others present included the two vice-
presidents of the Women’s Committee —
Mrs. Norman Sheppard and Mrs. Maurice
Nathan ; the hon. secretary, Mrs. Ronald
Marriott; the hon. treasurer, Mrs. Colin
Clarke ; Air-Marshal Sir John McCauley
(he was chairman of the Country Com-
mittee) and Lady McCauley ; Sir Frank
Selleck (chairman of the Special Gifts
Committee) and Lady Selleck ; Mrs.
Angus Jones (her husband was organiser
of the Functions Committee); Mrs.
George Laurnes, Mrs. Saul Aarons, Mrs.
Herbert Brookes and Mrs. Harry Marks.
# # #
The South Yana auxiliary of Y.W.C.A.
has done a splendid job in redecorating
the Toorak Mansions Hostel, which is
run by Melbourne “Y.” Mrs. John
Carrodus (wearing an attractive powder-
blue suit and matching hat) received a
number of guests at a luncheon and later
gave them an opportunity of seeing what
the auxiliary had done. Mr. Hayes
Marshall spoke on interior-decorating.
With president Mrs. Carrodus was hon.
secretary Mrs. W. B. Watson and hon.
treasurer Mrs. John Gamble. Among
tfie guests were Melbourne Y.W.C.A.
president Mrs. J. F. Williams, Mrs. T. C.
Rentoul, the Mayoress of Prahran (Mrs.
P. Carty Salmon), Mrs. Brian Hone, Mrs.
John Cordner, Mrs. Elizabeth Fitzgerald,
Mrs. Grayton Brown, Miss Joyce. True-
love, Miss Mary Essington Lewis (who
recently formed the new Como auxiliary
for “Y”) and the hostel matron, Miss
L. Owen.
No. 9 Darling Street was gaily decor-
ated for the dance given by Dr. and Mrs.
Emmet Spring, of Brighton, for their
daughter Sue, who wore a lovely off-
shoulder gown of white silk-organza,
which had green velvet ribbons at the
high-waisted bodice. Mrs. Spring chose
a gown of deep-rose chiffon, the bodice
highlighted with pearl beading and pink
hand-made roses. Sue’s brother Peter
helped his parents look after the guests.
Among those at the dance were Sue Gee
(Adelaide), Mary Argyle (Perth),
Druscilla Gillett (Hobart), Ann Mon-
tague (Deniliquin, N.S.W.), Lizabeth
Clowes, Diana and Carole Bowen, Mary
and Elizabeth Finlay, Diana Lord,
Denise Hart, Peggy Flynn, Wendy Doyle,
Janet Sayle, Jill Lovett and Beverley
Hurst.
Patricia, daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
John Heath, will be married tomorrow
(July 31) at St. John’s Church, Toorak,
Educated at Merton Hall, she is a mem-
ber of the Robin Hood committee which
works for mentally retarded children, and
also belongs to the English Speaking
Unions younger group, the Overseas
League and the British Commonwealth
Society. Her fiance, Graeme, is the only
son of Mrs., H. Laws, of Queen’s Road,
Melbourne. Pat will have two brides-
maids, Ann Swallow and Rosemary
Young. The reception will be at the
Hotel Australia.
Every table was booked at Giro’s,
where the English Speaking Union
Younger Members’ Group held its July
Rendezvous dinner-dance in aid of the
scholarship fund. Around the walls were
colorful posters, each representing a
typical national figure of overseas coun-
tries, and on each table were dolls in
national costume. Guests were wel-
comed by group - president John
Koschade, dance-committee president
Mrs. William Banks (wearing an attrac-
tive short full frock of taffeta printed in
autumn flowers), hon. secretary Jean
Cameron and hon. treasurer Betty
Nutting. Of emerald-green taffeta was the
frock worn by Mrs. Walter Gherardin,
who, with her husband, was at the table
arranged by Mr. and Mrs. Banks, other
guests being Pamela Middleton, Mr. and
Mrs. Carlton, R. Muth, Peter Robinson
and Laurie Viney. Janet Marshall, Joan
Duckett and Delphine Dean were in the
same party with Kath Bills and her
fiance, Lt. Peter Wood, R.A.N. Com-
mander C. A. R. Sadleir and Mrs.
Sadleir were at a table with Mr. and
Mrs. E. J. Thompson, Mrs. L. C. Lowry
and Mr. and Mrs. Rod McPhail. Others
at the dance were Dr. and Mrs. W. Wark,
Air-Commodore A. Ewart and his
daughter, Mrs. ISJorman Harding.
# # #
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Lynch
generously lent their Toorak home to
president Neil Hanley and members of
the Loreto Parents’ Association for a
house-party to help the building fund
of Mandeville Hall. Bowls of holly and
poinsettias decorated the marquee set in
the large garden. Mrs. Lynch wore a
smart cocktail-frock of black taffeta em-
bellished with a long rope of pearls.
Those who helped to make the party a
success included Mr. and Mrs. Ivan
Guest, Mr. and Mrs. Bill Glover, Mrs.
Dick Noone, Mrs. Alec Lynch, Mrs.
George Gay Mrs. Desmond Holly-
wood. Among the guests were U.S.
Consul W. Bushwaller and Mrs. Bush-
waller, Mr. and Mrs. Frank Galbally,
Mr. and Mrs. George Laurens, Mr. and
Mrs. S. G. Aarons, and Dr. and Mrs.
Bill McDermott.
CANBERRA
Decorations for the annual Winter
Ball at the Royal Military College,
Duntroon, were most appropriate. The
Winter Ball —one of four held at the
college each year—was given by the
Corps of Staff Cadets. Imaginative
decor was a feature of the ball; snow-
flakes floated over the windows and a
timber chalet covered one wall of the
Cadet’s Mess. Dominating the decor, an
attractive model skier stood on a long
glistening-white ski-run, while large blue
and white balloons added to the wintry
scene where guests danced.
Senior Under-Officer J. N. Moody, of
Adelaide, and Mrs. Bates, wife of
Colonel H. Bates, received the guests.
Mrs. Bates wore an elegant sheath-gown
in emerald-green duchesse-satin. Many
glamorous frocks were to be seen among
the dancers. Miss R. Hewitt, partnered
by Cadet G. T. Bowes, wore a pretty
frock in pale-blue lace with matching
satin bows at the waist; Gai Read
topped her blue - and - white - striped
brocade frock with a candy-pink velvet
coat J Miss L. Jackson, of Sydney, was


attractive in silver-green satin; Val
Vannan, of Yass, partnered by Cadet
Bob Caldwell, of Sydney, wore a
bouffant frock in embroidered blue
nylon ; Janice Ennor’s cream-brocade
frock featured a harem skirt—her partner
was Cadet Ray Tuck, of N.Z.; Miss C.
Wikner, of Sydney, her frock in peacock-
blue brocade, danced with Cadet Stewart
Cochrane.
#
. An event of interest to art-lovers was
the opening of the new Centre Gallery
at -Civic Centre. In declaring it open,
the National Librarian, Mr. H. L. White,
said that in his long term in Canberra
he had been called upon to open
numerous projects, turn first sods, plant
trees and turn the keys of new buildings,
but to open a gallery in the capital,
which has no National Gallery, gave
him great satisfaction. He hoped the
new gallery would prove Stimulating.
The small and well-lit gallery was an
ideal setting for the 40 oil-paintings
lent by artist Robert Johnson, a fine
collection painted by him in Central
Australia. They will be shown in Brisbane
after leaving Canberra and then in the
artist's home city, Auckland (N.Z.). The
exhibition was sponsored by the Artists’
Society of Canberra.
SYDNEY
A mixed week, with one or two interest-
ing highlights. The exhibition of Aus-
tralian books by the Books Across the
Sea Committee of the English Speaking
Union was thought-provoking. The
books, which include novels, poetry,
history, geography, art and children’s
books, made a very handsome display at
the rooms of the E.S.U. and by their
quality and variety confirmed the words
of Dr. Colin Roderick, who, speaking at
the opening of the exhibition, said that
Australia is just now coming to the
blossom-time of her cultural develop-
ment.
These books, said Mrs. Helen Moyes,
president of the committee, are to be
sent to Canada for the national conven-
tion of the English Speaking Union in
Ottawa in October, and are to remain
in that country as ambassadors of Aus-
tralia. Ninety in number, they are the
gifts of members of the E.S.U. and of
the publishers. Mrs. Jeanne Weinberg,
hon. secretary of the committee, said that
the scheme had been inaugurated by Mrs.
Beatrice Warde when she was in Aus-
tralia not so long ago. Speakers at the
opening included Mr. A. L. Paltridge and
Mr. E. J. Thomson, of the Department
of Trade (which is interested not only
in exporting books because of their com-
mercial value but also because they create
“a climate of Australia” abroad). Other
speakers were Mrs. Beatrice Bridges, of
Angus and Robertson, Miss Jean Arnot
and Mr. Sam Ure Smith.
# #
We so often hear that Australia is
“Americanised” that we are surprised
when Americans say they find life here
quite different. Dancer Dolly Costello,
who is appearing in the Tivoli’s lively
new show “Funfiesta,” says that one
thing that amazed her in Australia was
that Saturday was not a real working-day.
In America, she reports, the shops
remain open all day, and it is then the
family does its most important shopping.
On Sunday they relax, but picture-shows,
etc., are all open and you can get any
entertainment you want. Another thing
that Miss Costello comments on is our
“excellent beefsteaks, so low in price com-
pared with the American.”
Pretty Pamela Page, who plays the
role of Helen Chandler in the Theatre
Royal’s comedy “Dear Delinquent,” is an
English actress who has made Sydney her
home. Pamela has been acting pro-
fessionally since she was a little girl, and
was trained at R.A.D.A., to which she
won a scholarship. She first came to
Australia to play the leading role in
“Died M for Murder” for J. C. William-
son. and since then has been heard regu-
larly in A.B.C. and commercial radio.
One of the many nice things about
having our own Australian singers in
opera is that their personal friends and
families have a chance to hear them “as
holy Triumph crowns them.” When, for
instance, Raymond Nilsson, who has
been singing principal tenor at Covent
Garden for the past five years, received
an ovation for his Don Jose in “Carmen”
at the Elizabethan Theatre on Tuesday
night his family came along to applaud
and rejoice in his success. His parents,
Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Nilsson, were in
the stalls with his aunt and uncle, Mr.
and Mrs. Roy Nilsson, while his sister,
Mrs. George Bawtree, and his cousin,
Mrs. Phillip Burden, were in the dress-
circle with their husbands.
V- V V
To help crippled and spastic children
take their first steps towards health and
a normal life is the motive of the First
Step Appeal, which gets under way this
week. More than 130,000 letters of
appeal are being sent to citizens and
firms throughout N.S.W., and it is esti-
mated that one home in every five will
receive a letter. For the appeal all the
organisations working for crippled
children have combined under the presi-
dency of Sir Kenneth Coles, who is
world president of the International
Society for the Welfare of Cripples, the
first Australian to be elected to this
post. Although 11,000 crippled and
spastic children are already being cared
for,' there are many thousands more
waiting for help. The donation that is
sent to this appeal will give them their
First Step to hope and a normal life.
V V V
What does the Australian housewife
serve for a lunch or supper-party as a
rule? “Spaghetti bolognese, mostly,”
says Mrs. Kevin Gardner, who has been
visiting her family in Sydney for the
past three months and returns to London
shortly. Mrs. Gardner, who is a gradu-
ate of the Cordon Bleu School of Cook-
ing, says that many of the French recipes
are unsuitable for the Australian way of
life, as the French housewife will some-
times start at nine-o’clock in the morning
preparing the dish for the evening meal.
In London she herself often serves an
Australian casserole dish of sausages,
tomatoes, onions and capsicum for lunch.
When asked for a recipe that was a little
different, but not too elaborate, she sug-
gested baked gammon of bacon with
pineapple glaze. And this is how it is
made:
Take a piece about 21b. in weight of
gammon of bacon (use a larger piece if
you don’t mind the expense) and bake in
a moderate oven for about two hours.
When it is cooked, peel the skin off (do
not finish cooking until you can do this
easily), score it across in diamond-shape
with a knife and remove to a shallow
ovenproof serving-dish. Make a syrup of
a quarter of a pint of pineapple-juice, the
same quantity of vinegar, two table-
spoons of sugar and a dessertspoon of
arrowroot to thicken. Pour over. the
bacon and bake for half-an-hour, basting
frequently. Surround the bacon with
pineapple-pieces five minutes before serv-
ing and present with green peas and tiny
baked potatoes.
☆ ☆ ☆
Report from a morning paper: “The
hems in Paris are terribly short, about
16in. from the ground, but Madame
Rocher, who prefers the longer hemline,
has her dresses made ISin. from the
ground.” Such extreme devotion to
fashion is really not called for.
The general trend of fashion-news
from abroad seems to indicate that the
sack has gone its way, unmourned. Mean-
time, in Sydney, attention has been caught
by the flowered wigs which come down
right over the ears like a helmet. They
are absolutely covered .with flowers—
chrysanthemums, roses and daisies the
favorites —and they are not at all expen-
sive. They give a lift to drab winter
clothes, though they should really be
kept till the spring.


was coming out of the bottom
of the wound. He didn’t know
what the right thing to do was
at first, but he thought he better
stick them in again. There
wasn’t much sticking out —just
a few inches of tube —but he
thought he better be careful
putting it back just the same,
he didn’t want to get infected.
His fingers were pretty muddy
and slimed-up, so he hadn't
used them, just the edge of the
new field dressing. He hadn’t
much trouble coaxing the tube
back in, it was pretty easy,
really.
A WHiLfc later he met the
boy. He looked, like a
Koiari boy, he wasn’t a Fuzzy
anyway, he had a flat haircut
on top.
There were some other boys
with him coming down the
Trail, but an officer had hunted
them back up again. They
wanted to go down the Trail
to make sure the other boy
got there all right, but the
officer said they w'ere carrier-
boys and must have dropped
their packs further up in the
hills. The officer hadn’t sent
the other boy back up with
them because the other boy
was hurt.
The officer said he had fallen
down right on top of a slippery
log on a crossing. Two of
them had fallen down. They
were carrying a two-man load
slung on a stick across their
shoulders. The other fellow
hadn’t got hurt much, just
barked his shin, and he had
gone on. But his boy had come
down belly-first on the log with
the two-man pack slap on his
back. According to the officer
he had busted his spleen.
They made it a game after a
while, the two of them walk-
ing down. They were the
Busted Gut Brigade of the
Kokoda Trail? he reckoned. He
was Big Taubada Busted Gut
and the boy was No. 1 Busted
Gut Boy. It was hard to say
“Busted Gut Boy,” and some-
times he made a blue of it.
The boy laughed then. They
couldn’t talk much because he
wasn’t a wake-up to pidgin,
but the boy seemed to know
when he had made a mistake
in the name. After a while he
made the mistake on purpose
just so the boy would laugh.
Sometimes he called h i m
Gusted But and Mustard Rut,
it was marvellous how you
could twist the name around.
The boy had a funny way
of laughing. He gritted his
teeth together, and let the
laugh whistle out in stages. He
tried it, too, and it was a good
idea. It didn’t hurt half as much
to laugh that way.
After a while he found he
couldn’t keep up to the boy.
He noticed him hanging
back a lot waiting for him.
Eventually he decided it wasn’t
a fair go to have the boy hang-
ing back like that, so he tried
to hunt him along. The boy
didn’t want to go and leave
him and he had a lot of trouble
getting rid of him. They were
good boys, the darkies; they’d
cry like babies if a bloke was
feet-up on the stretcher they
were bringing down.
He missed the boy after he’d
gone. For a long time he was
sorry he’d sent him away, but it
was the right thing to do; he
knew that, and after a while he
didn’t worry about it any more.
It wasn’t long after that he
started to fall down. He’d be
walking along as- right as pie
and then his legs would get
fuzzy underneath him and
down he’d go in the mud.
Falling down made him think
of the fever-cases again and
he’d lie there trying to work-
out about the monkey-rope.
After a while he’d get to think-
ing that a man would look a
bloody fool lying down in the
mud thinking about things like
that, and he’d get up and start
walking again.
The last few times he’d fallen
down he had a lot of trouble
getting up. He knew What it
was, all right; it was not eating
the bully-beef. A man couldn’t
expect to put on a good turn
if he didn’t eat. Not feeling
hungry wasn’t good enough, he
knew damn’ well he had to be
hungry, he hadn’t eaten for so
long. That was when he turned
on his side and got a tin out,
but when it was opened he
found he couldn’t saddle-up to
it.
He decided he’d put a clean
dressing on.
•That was when he saw the
green uniforms. He’d sat
down against a tree and
brought his knees up.
It was the first time he’d seen
the green uniforms. His was
faded khaki with the buckles
all scraped from the sand in
the desert. It was a fairly old
uniform, not new like the green
ones, though they weren’t any-
thing to write home about when
you saw them up close.
Streaky they were, with the dye
all run-out in patches of pale-
yellow, green and brown, as
though someone had gone mad
and thrown them into half-a-
dozen dye-pots at once. They
didn’t look the sort of thing
you show-off to your shiela
with, but there was no doubt
about them, they looked good
up here on the Trail ; melted
right into the jungle, they did.
The first bloke who came up
in the green nodded to him,
said, “How’re you going, Dig?’’
and offered him a cigarette. The
bloke had gone to walk past
but he called him back and told
him to sit down. There was a
hell of a lot of things he’d learnt
back up the track, about the
Nip and how he fought, and
about the scrub and the
leeches .. .
Anyway, they came around
him, and he gave them the
drum, and they stood there
taking it all in ; you could see
that, they were taking it in,
all right.
And that’s when he saw the
new gun. It was a hell of a
light gun. You could see
straight-off how light it was.
Even before he put his hand
out for it he could see that.
That was the first thing he said
when he took it and held it in
his hand.
“Thank it’s light,” he
said.
Straight-off he told them
about the mud, but they only
grinned, and said the mud
wouldn’t worry this gun, mate ;
it makes no difference to it
at all; He thought they were
bunging it on a bit, but they
all had pretty much the same
o Continued on next page )
The Hollidays
By Middy
“I thought the Captain was always LAST to leave the ship!”


story about it; reckoned they’d
tried it out and be beggared ft
it would choke-up in the rmid,
and to hell with other subs.;
this new Owen gun was the
best thing they had ever brought
into the jungle.
They had stacks of them. As
far as you could see down along
the track, there were blokes with
the Owen guns, all walking up
the track ; and by the way
they were coming with all these
guns that wouldn’t jam-up in
the mud, those light guns and
the stacks of ammo., he
wouldn't be surprised if they
didn’t get right up to Kokoda
itself.
Every now and then he called
out to blokes going past and
got them over for a yarn. He
was going to get up and start
walking again ; two or three
times he had decided to give
it a go, but there were still
other jokers coming up the
track . . .
It wasn’t long after that that
he found he couldn’t see the
mens’ heads going by; it was
silly just sitting there watching
legs walking past you and no
sign of a man stuck on the
other end. By now he had
given-up calling blokes over
for a yarn, he was too tired
to talk any more,
All he could see was the
green legs and the Owen-butts
and -barrels coming past. After
a while the legs didn’t separate
any more and became a long
line of weaving green floating
and falling and after that he
couldn’t separate the green
uniforms from the green
jungle behind.
Girl-Trouble
By KEVIN McAULIFFE
The sprawling sign before
the entrance to the new
factory was a duplicate
of scores of others
adorning empty allotments,
highways, and advertising
blocks around the city.
It was a full-scale model of
a girl in a green swimsuit
reclining on golden sands under
a gay beach-umbrella. She was
sipping something through a
straw from a bottle, and the
slogan ran “Kipits Tip Top
Keeps Cool.” •
Sloan, the accountant, was
in his office talking to Masie.
He was thin, in his middle
thirties, with a perpetual air
of gloom. She was a cheery
teenager. The blue uniform
matched her eyes.
“What about coming for a
swim tonight?” Sloan was say-
ing. “I could pick you up at
six outside the gates.”
Masie nodded. “0.k.,” she
said and they both laughed and
looked at each other, but broke-
off as Drone, the manager,
came in.
“What time is that meeting?”
said Drone with a grin for
Masie as she went out. “Just
about due now," said Sloan.
He watched Drone as the other
took a paper off h's desk.
“Advertising,” said Drone ;
“and we can’t sell the stuff for
love or money. What was that
about leading a horse to
water?”
“They have to be educated
to it,” said Sloan. “It won't
sell until the public gets a taste
for it.' It’s always the same way.
That's where advertising
comes into it.”
“We’re laying-out thousands
for adverts.,” said Drone. “It
hasn’t returned a penny.”
Sloan had heard it all before.
He sat and listened as he
always did, A fly was buzzing
around his head, but he took
no notice of it. The tap, tap
of typewriters came through
the door and he could see the
women bent over their
machines through the glass
window that- divided the
accountant's office from the
larger room. ■
Others came in. Sloan got up
and placed chairs. Miles, who
looked after the distribution
-and industrial side. Stevens
from the outside-orders and
outside-distribution. Jones
from the large factory work-
shop. It was a dull affair that
never looked like being any
different from all the others.
Drone talked and the others
listened. He quoted figures,
shook the typewritten sheet in
his fist, stamped and snorted.
“I want results,” he stormed,
“and all I can get is excuses.
What are your sales this month,.
Stevens?”
Stevens made to say some-
thing, but Drone thundered in
before his fine flow of language
could be interrupted. “I’ll tell
you what they are. The same
as last month’s and the month's
before. Do you know what
I'm spending each year on
advertising?”
They sat the show out and
then went back to their tasks.
They held no conversations
with each other: No comments
were made.
Everything had been said
before.
AyfASiE was in despatch talk-'-'
ing to the drivers while
they loaded their trucks for the
day. All the drivers wore
uniforms and caps with “Kipits
Tip Top” stamped on them.
Bottles of dull red liquid were
streaming along the rails,
caught and placed in cases.
“What about tonight?” said;
one of the drivers. A fat man,
the sweat was running down his
red face as he stooped.
“Can’t,” said Masie. “Got
a date. I’m not going to wait
around all night for you to
turn-up, either.”
•Stevens came in. He looked
at Masie and his face flushed.
But he wasn’t game to order
her back to her job and she
knew it. Stevens wasn't certain
how he stood with Sloan or
Drone, and he was a married
man with two kids.
Masie was enjoying herself.
She knew what Stevens w ; as
thinking. Knew he’d like to
get rid of her. She sensed that
Stevens was irritated by her
flirtations and slackness and
amused herself by annoying
him when she could. She
winked at one of the men
behind Stevens’s back and the
man glared his resentment.
But most of the men were
for Stevens. He never tried' to
make them do more than they
were capable of doing. Lesse r
men would have saved their
faces by sackings. Drone would
have taken notice of that. But
Stevens was no sl'ivedriver.
Trucks went out and more
came in. They all had red
bonnets with the usual slogan
running along the side. Crates
of “Kipits Tip Top” went
rolling through the big, wide
gates and off to their destina^
tions: the suburbs, shopping-
centres, towns near the city.
Drivers were paid commission
on sales. It was hot, heavy
work and Stevens knew it.
He looked at a truck stand-
ing by the loading-platform
unattended. It was full of
crates and ready to go out.
“Where’s the driver of that
truck?” he said.
None of the other drivers
replied. Bent over their crates,
some of them wore grins.
Stevens jumped off the plat-
form and went around the side
of the truck to the cabin. The
fat man was inside. Masie was
with him.
“Haven’t you got any work
to do?” said Stevens to her.
Her face reddened angrily.
She looked at him as though in
doubt. '
“Now listen, mate,” she said.
“Why don’t you get wise to
yourself?”
“I’m sorry, Mr. Stevens,” said
the man.
“Come into my office and
collect your pay,” said Stevens.
He turned away and went
back to the platform. Rage was
stabbing at him.
“I’m entitled to a week’s
hotice,” said the man.
He and Masie had climbed
out of the x cabin and were
standing, uncertain, on the
ground near the crates. Masie
was smiling at some secret joke.
“I’m giving you a week's
pay,” said Stevens. “It’s
worth that to get rid of yop.”
He went to the pay-clerks to
give them his instructions and
Masie swept past him as he
returned to his office. He busied
himself with papers until the
fat man arrived. He was sullen
but silent. Stevens made him
wait outside until his pay was
made-up.
The girl came with the pay-
envelope just ahead of Sloan.
Stevens took it and looked at
the man sitting on the form.
“One moment, Stevens,” said
Sloan. “Remember that I’m in
charge of staff here.”
Stevens ignored him. He
went outside and gave the pay-
envelope to the driver, who
took it and went.
Sloan w ; as waiting in the
office. A red spot burnt in
each cheek/
“Miss Myers has been to
see me,” he began. “A com-
plaint has been made. It’s a
serious matter.” His eyes
blinked. But Stevens cut'him
short. “Miss Myers is not in
my department,” he said evenly.
Sloan backed-down. But his
expression was unfriendly as he
went out.
Stevens sat down. He
gathered-in a stack of forms
piled neatly on one side af
his desk. The hum of
machinery and the clink of
bottles came softly to his ears
as he went grimly about the
task of the re-allocation of
Zone 17.


his excursions ori horseback. The first,
from Sydney to Melbourne, kept him
on the road from July to the follow-
ing March, 1850; and if there is any-
thing more impressive than Austin’s
account of his industry and persever-
ance with town authorities it is the
packed statement:—
In almost continuous rain, dosing
himself successively with calomel,
epsora-salts,- laudanum and castor-
oil, Rusden rode back and forth
through Warren bay ne, Violet Town,
Euroa, Avenel and Seymour, plan-
ning and holding meetings.
After he had been two days in Sydney
his commissioners sent him off again,
up the Hunter Valley. By April be
was back, and off’ again to Brisbane on
a trip that; took in Ipswich, Drayton,
Warwick, Tenterfield, Tabulam, Graf-
ton and Armidale. There was another
Hunter Valley tour, and he was in
Bathurst, asking for an increase on his
£1 a day in settled districts and 15s. a
day in unsettled districts, and explain-
ing that, Bathurst being a goldfield-
district, the cost of living was beyond
him, when bis commissioners sent him
a fatuous \ reply, and he resigned to
become chief clerk of the Colonial
Secretary’s Office in Victoria, and
within a year was Clerk of the Execu-
tive Council, at the heart of the
Victorian Administration.
Stewart had been a Labor-party
student in Leith. In Sydney he worked
as a carpenter on the rebuilding of the
Sydney G.P.0.; through the Carpenters’
Union he got into the N.S.W. Labor
Council, and had them appoint a com-
mittee on working-class education. In
1912 Albert Mansbridge, inventor of
the Workers’ Education Association,
had been persuaded by Stewart’s
brother Alex in England to write to
David Stewart and suggest establishing
the W.E.A. in N. S. Wales. David
Stewart went ahead. The McGowan
Government made provision for “even-
ing tutorial classes in science,
economics, ancient and modem history
and sociology” in an amending Uni-
versity Bill; and a joint committee was
set up of University Extension Board
and W.E.A. members, while “the
W.E.A. was looked to as the main
recruiter for the classes.”
Education was merely an incident in
Rusden’s career, whereas to Stewart it
gradually become his life work. In
1927 his salary as secretary was still
£8 a week, and in 1928 it was fixed
at £450 a year. He lived for the
W.E.A., read all the books in its
library, helped build the Newport
Summer School and made all the chairs
for it, and died, aged 71, in 1954, still
general-secretary, still talking about
retiring.
Both men had their difficulties.
Rusden’s effort to*form national schools
was frustrated by the churches, for the
most part, and by the private schools.
His own father, as a Church of England
minister, opposed national schools
because some other religion, especially
the Roman Catholic, might gain from
them. Very soon the Roman Catholics
took the same point.
After he had given-up education as
a livelihood, Rusden, still in his more
and more influential Melbourne
appointments, worked to further the
national-school project in Victoria. He
wrote a book on education and in 1853
became a member of the Board of
National Education in Victoria,-which
ran in tandem with the Denominational
Board. Austin traces the course of the
Parliamentary battle which went now
in favor of one board, now of the
other, until in 1862 a Common Schools
Board replaced the two other boards;
but neither this nor the Act of 1872
gave any pleasure to Rusden: what he
had wanted was a national school that
taught undenominational religion; and
a school that taught no religion, or a
school that taught denominational
religion to those who wanted it, was no
national school to him.
Stewart’s difficulties were the Labor
party and the professors. Labor
organisations at various times wanted
the W.E.A. to lecture along the party-
line, and would support its opinion in
the well-known Labor manner by dis-
affiliations arid refusals-to-join, while
the university, although many profes-
sors were Stewart’s firmest supporters
and friends, tended to be jealous of its
absolute right to control extension-
lectures. Stewart’s idea was that
W.E.A. lectures should deal with
working-men’s interests, yet not from
a political point of view—as Rusden’s
was to have children taught Christianity
from an undenominational point of
view. It would be hard to say who
chose the thornier path.
Both books (Austin’s is heavily
documented) give a patient and
thorough coverage of their tortuous
subjects. Austin leaves Rusden in
1862, before he has written his histories
of Australia and New Zealand, of
which Austin has no very high opinion,
and, maybe because it is only half-a-life,
his few remarks on Rusden’s pernickety
character do not give as good a 'picture
of his subject as Higgins’s asides on
Stewart, a wily Scots democract who,
if the meeting didn’t go his way, was
capable of making it go his way in
the report, who disliked to delegate
authority, and would be found
washing-up the tea-things after address-
ing the meeting, one who grew into the
job until it became his life.
A Holy Roman Emperor
The lives people manage to live
without one’s being aware of them!
Take Frederick II of Hohenstaufen ;
unknown to Winchell, unrecorded in
“Granny’s” column, retrieved from the
present reviewer’s oblivion by
Georgina Masson for Seeker and
Warburg:—
Fred
Who was alive
And is dead
cut as big a dash in his own time as
the Duke of Windsor or even Mr.
Townsend: at his court in Sicily the
sonnet was invented—by, it is thought,
Giacomo da Lentini, around 1233 —
and he is one of the few excommuni-
cates who have led a crusade.
Frederick was also the reason why
Pope Innocent IV fled to Lyons, and
why for so long the Papacy was in
Avignon. Grandson of Frederick
Barbarossa, the Holy Roman Emperor,
he was the son of the Emperor Henry,
also a German, who had married the
daughter of King Roger II of Sicily,
descended from the Norman who had
taken Sicily from the Saracens.
Henry had some difficulty in taking-
over Sicily ; he pacified one member
of the opposition by seating him upon
a red-hot iron throne and hammering
a red-hot crown with nails into his
head, so, that, when he and his wife
died, their little Freddie, aged seven,
was lucky to escape the fate of the
previous child Crown Prince of Sicily,
whom Henry had blinded and
castrated.
Instead, by the influence of the Pope,
Frederick was confirmed on his 14th
birthday as King of Sicily, married to
the King of Hungary’s widow, and
supported in the Emperorship, to which
Henry had had him elected as a baby,
against the German usurper, Otto.
The diplomacy which governed the
55 years of Frederick’s life was the
determination of the Papacy that
Germany and the South of Italy must
not be united against the Papal
dominions in central Italy. Young
Frederick was made promise to make
his son King of Sicily and remain
content himself with being Holy
Roman Emperor. Frederick, at his
earliest opportunity, broke this
compact; instead he put his son Henry
in charge in the north, and retained
the Sicilian kingship for himself as
Emperor; and from that moment it
was on, against Pope after Pope until,
the last Pope flying to France,
Frederick was finally-frustrated by the
Lombard cities that had acted through-
out in loose alliance with the Papacy ;
and, though he died in his bed, his line
was ended.
He might have united Europe from
the Baltic to the Mediterranean under
the code of laws he devised for Sicily,
the best since Justinian ; but in that


case it might have gone badly with
Christianity. Frederick had been
brought-up in Moorish palaces in
Sicily, in a culture still heavily
influenced by Moslem culture. On a
Crusade to Jerusalem, he made some
very doubtful jokes with the Saracens
at the expense of Christians, and
towards the end of his life, when he
thought he might take Rome, his
publicity went so far as to suggest that
he was God himself.
On the other hand his failure to take
all the tricks may have delayed the
Renaissance by two centuries. He
wrote and encouraged the writing of
poetry in Italian; he welcomed
philosophers and scientists, particularly
S experts on medicine, to his court; and
he was one of the world’s first bird-
watchers —his treatise on falcons and
birds was remarkable for its wide
coverage and its rejection of all except
first-hand observation. He would have
nothing to do with medieval geese
hatched from barnacles, or phoenixes
bom out of their own flames.
He had three wives ; the third was
Isabella, sister of Henry 111 of
England ; and he travelled in his later
years with a menagerie of animals, a
tame elephant and a harem of Moorish
concubines. A certain amount of
hoydihoy was allowed to, and even
expected of, heads of State in those
days, but the harem was a bit more
than Frederick’s subjects could take,
and its capture, when the citizens of
Parma took his investing forces by
surprise, must have contributed a great
deal to the loss-of-face which finally
denied him control of Lombardy.
Miss Masson has covered all these
bare bones with flesh and rare and
beautiful cloths. The marriage of
Isabella, for instance, goes-off like a
wedding. Another fine scene is that
where, the aged Pope Gregory IX
defies the whole of rebellious Rome
and brings them round to resisting the
advancing Emperor. She has obviously
made careful surveys of Frederick’s
many castles—what remains of them—
and reconstructed not merely their
walls but the life that went on within
them.
"The Life of Our Cities"
Contributions dealing with Aus-
tralian urban life in fiction, poetry,
descriptive and discussive prose are
invited by the Victorian branch of the
Fellowship of Australian Writers for
an anthology on “the life of our cities”
to be edited by A. A. Phillips. Com
tributions, not to exceed 3000 words,
should be sent to Mrs. W. Horn, City
of Footscray Free Library, Buckley
Street, Melbourne, not later than
December 1, 1958.
INSIGHT: Six Versions
(1) CREAK OF THE CROW
Hardship and hazard
led to holy land.
The skull-dwelling lizard
bakes there on sand;
and nothing can atone
for loss that must fall
of the black stone
from the white wall —•
black still and square
in true believers’ eyes ;
firm —though Mecca’s bare
for us, the unwise,
who turn from mosque and mullah
to whirl and upthrust
of the voice of Allah
in a spire of dust,
and fastening faith
beyond works that show
might dream the world wraith
but for creak of the crow.
(2) THE DUNCE'S CAP
Ask no better tool
with which to touch and tap
sky-windows than, O fool,
your tall dunce’s cap.
Though foreheads of the wise
stretch half as far, they fail
when brain would jut up eyes
like stalk-eyes of the snail.
The ladder of man’s gifts
leans on the tower of light;
but no hand builds or lifts
above arm-reaching height.
Praise, therefore, ignorance
which treads upon those rungs;
praise laughter and romance
and the low lilt of tongues
which bid the unlettered heart
climb and gaze out where strain
peaked seas that none shall chart
on the grey globe of the brain.
(3) WINGS AVOVEE WINGS
Study the lyrebird’s nest,
the wren drinking;
but who puts to test
that hung eagle, thinking?
Yet all that cell-stuff draws
within skull’s limits
is prey to the swoop and claws
from mind’s cold summits.
For thought, wings above wings ,
is time’s life waking
out of its dead springs—
this moment in making.
(4) IN THE STREET
Not an observant man,
1 let go by
much that the mind can
take In at the eye
as if through paling-cracks
of the closed fence
where all that knowledge lacks
is hidden from sense,
and pass new friends in the street . ..
but this thought’s cold:
what if I fail to greet,
likewise, the old?
Unseeingly 1 explore;
yet am aware
should one at the crowd’s core
give stare for stare ;
for eyes that have met and crossed
not wholly pass
as if but beads to be lost,
water turned glass.
(5) VISION
(6) MEMORIAL ARCH
Though mind will shut out sight —-
not too unkindly—
that one given the light
may yet walk blindly
not seeing at all
beyond his moment’s need
raised like a blank wall
to part dream from deed,
with eyes held in a scope
safe from such daring
as peers out past hope
or strays, wayfaring ;
the converse, nevertheless,
hardly applies:
scenes in the mind press
unchecked on the eyes.
From far times, far places,
from childhood, the past,
suddenly the old faces
rush in like a blast.
In the middle of business, thought,
or reading a book,
the thing watched comes all to nought
wherever you look ;
and just for a leaping flash
a creek where the boy swam,
dried up by years that are ash,
floods the whole room.
Poor shelter, say I,
this place affords
under the spread sky
men build of words.
That roof won’t hold out much,
but could, l suppose, remain
as a manorial arch
after fire falls as rain.
Then words, past power to confuse
with lie, promise or tract,
might serve for a stark use —
might point at fact.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
N.S.W.


“KEY MEN” No. 1
THE MINOR PROBLEM is caring for family and personal financial needs
from income after tax.
THE MAJOR PROBLEM is to provide enough surplus out of taxed income
to guarantee financial security at retirement and/or on death.
A.M.P. ik Key Man” insurance is being used extensively as a solution to
the major problem.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
' - . • ' , ' • • , ' •
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
GENERAL MANAGER: M. C. BUTT FIELD
