

The bulletin
Australian Industries Fair— pa ge 32
Wednesday, March 12, 19S8
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney-
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
LAWSON IN AMERICA
It is almost incredible to read on
the jacket of The Selected Works of
Henry Lawson, edited by Lyle Blair
(Michigan State University Press), that
Lawson
... . has never hitherto been published
in America, although his works are
well known in England, in France,
in Germany, and even in Russia.
Imagine what a cultural darkness
we would be living in if it were only
now, in 1958, that we first heard of
Bret Harte or O. Henry! And Lawson,
though influenced by Bret Harte, was
far superior to Loth these writers: not
less racy, and much more deeply sensi-
tive, largely avoiding the sentimental
melodrama that mars the one and the
trickiness of the other.
Of course Bret Harte, O. Henry and
Mark Twain are not published in
Australia but filtered-down to us
through English, editions of their
works; but Lawson is not printed
enough in England to filter anywhere,
and one would have expected the U.S.,
with its enormously larger population
and its eagerness to acquire the world’s
culture, long ago to have taken him
under its wing.
At any rate and at long last the
Americans now have their own
Lawson selection; and in a most beauti-
ful edition—finer, in fact, than any
that has yet been printed in Australia.
This reviewer wishes that Blair had
chosen the Longstaff portrait rather
than Low’s scarifying caricature for
reproduction on the dust jacket—it is
Lawson all right; but the alcoholic
Lawson of his later years, not the great
writer. But the overall effect, with
the portrait set in a framework of
green and yellow, is extraordinarily
attractive. The green cloth binding is
in quiet good taste without any of the
ornateness that ruins so many American
special-editions.
As to the selection, there is bound
to be some disagreement when there
are so many stories and verses to
choose from. But this reviewer’s
choice of stories would begin with
“The Union Buries Its Dead,” “The
Drover’s Wife,” “The Loaded Dog”
and “The Ventriloquial Rooster”: and
all of these Blair has included. A
choice of ballads would begin with
“Ballad of the Drover,” “Andy’s Gone
with Cattle,” “The Lights of Cobb and
Co.” and “Talbragar”; and of these
Blair has included only “The Lights
of Cobb and Co.” Nevertheless, “The
Roaring Days,” “After All,” “The
Sliprails and the Spur,” “The Water-
lily,” “When the Army Prays for
Watty” and (with “Cobb and Co.”)
“When the World Was Wide” display
Lawson’s balladry well enough.
Blair’s preface suffers from some
overemphasis and a few inaccuracies.
He writes of the “hideously unlifelike”
statue of Lawson “in Hyde Park”—
it is not in Hyde Park and (a matter
of opinion) neither hideous nor unlife-
like but charming and a bit senti-
mental. Seeking to stress the harshness
of this continent he says that “When
the Americans bored into the earth
they found oil—-the Australians, salt
water” . . . come, come! He says that
the bushrangers included “at least one
Anglican priest”: but Captain Moon-
lite, if that is who he means, was never
more than a lay-reader.
Complaining rightly enough, though
without knowledge of some attempts
that have been made, that “there is no
fitting biography” of Lawson, he says
“It is extraordinary that Australian
scholars have left him neglected,” which
may convey the misleading impression
that critical as well as biographical
scholarship has neglected him; and he
adds, incorrectly, that “there is an
unpublished autobiography in the
Mitchell Library.... which cannot be
published until these people [those who
knew .Lawson personally] are dead.”
There are, in fact, a few Lawson papers
at the Mitchell which the trustees are
doubtful about releasing, but the
fragment of autobiography, extracts
from which were published years ago
in “The Bulletin,” is freely available.
Finally, in an extensive and unneces-
sary appendix, Blair publishes three
accounts of the Eureka Stockade: “The
American Version” by Charles D.
Ferguson, “The English Version” by
Edward Jenks and “The Australian
Version” by Kylie Tennant. He does
not mention what is by the far the
most satisfactory account. Dr. C. H.
Currey’s “The Irish at Eureka.”
But these are minor blemishes in a
forthright appreciation of Lawson as
“the finest short-story writer that
Australia has produced, a writer of
international stature,” and in an edition
which, as a whole, introduces Lawson
to America as handsomely as anyone
could wish.
D. S.
Black Bull Chapbooks
Three new Black Bull chapbooks
from the Rams Skull Press, Victoria,
are The Violin, the Banjo and the
Bones, by J. S. Manifold, Three Street
Ballads, by Russel Ward and Aus-
tralian Song Index, by Hugh Anderson.
The song-index is incomplete and
necessarily fails to be up to date, since
it lists only songs printed up to 1956.
It is also somewhat misleading in that
Hugh Anderson says in his foreword
that he has omitted “the goldfield
and urban, music-hall type of songs.”
whereas he has in fact included some
•of both kinds—surely Thatcher’s “The
Crushing Machine” and Coxon’s “The
Grog Tent We Got Tipsy In” are from
the goldfields, as “The Cove What
Drives,” though perhaps not “urban.”
is typical of the music-halls.
Anderson might have done better to
have delayed publication until he
could give a clearer and more complete
picture; but the booklet remains a
useful interim guide to the sources of
375 Australian songs and ballads
printed between 1828 and 1956.
“Three Street Ballads” deals with
the origin and circumstances of “Adieu
to Old England,” “The Fight on
George’s River Ground” (between
Larry Foley and Sandy Ross) and “The
Ballad of the Catalpa,” in which
Irish political prisoners or their
sympathisers celebrated the escape to
America of six of their companions,
including John Boyle O’Reilly, from
Fremantle:—
A noble whale-ship and commander,
Called the Catalpa, they say,
Came out to Western Australia
And took six poor Fenians away.
Ward has an interesting account of
the development of Australian songs
and ballads from the street-ballads of
England and Ireland; and notes that
though (the newspapers taking their
place) “the city street-ballad tradition
....was never as important in Aus-
tralia as the bush songs became,”
nevertheless “street-ballads on the death
in the U.S.A. of Les Darcy (1917) and
Phar Lap (1933) are still known and
sung today.”
“The Violin, the Banjo and the
Bones” is a description of some of the
peculiar musical instruments of the
outback, with a history of them drawn
from references in Australian litera-
ture —the “authentic portrait” of the
old-time fiddler, says Manifold, “is
drawn at full-length in Brian James’s
short-story, ‘Bring Your Fiddle, Joe.’”
Connoisseurs may learn how to make
music from boiled bullock-ribs; and
there is an account —new to this
reviewer—of a “regional” folk-music
in Queensland: —
Southwards down the Reef, taking
in mainland towns as it goes, runs a
musical civilisation with Kanaka
affinities, that expresses itself in
massed guitars and vocal harmony as
thick and sweet as molasses. “Oh,
T.I.! ” they sing, nostalgic for an
imaginary Thursday Island, to a
tune that must have been sired by a
sentimental German trader on a
(Continued on page 58)


TWO HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPIONS
READY FOR ROADWORK!
INTERNATIONAL ASC-162
CAB FORWARD MODEL
WITH STOCK-CRATE BODY
y
i®
Thi£ International ASC-162 brings all the advantages of cab-
forward design to stock carrying : greater manoeuvrability—
better utilization of space. On tough jobs where more exact
weight distribution between the axles is a factor- —the ASC-162
is your truck. Its profit-making potential is further enhanced by
increased front axle capacity and higher gross vehicle weight. The
International ASC-162 retains the invaluable two-speed electric
shift axle.
EASY ENGINE ACCESSIBILITY
Raise the bonnet of the International
ASC-162. Note the easy access to engine
and engine accessories. All engine service
points are well within reach to simplify
maintenance and cut service time.
INTERNATIONAL AS-162
SEMI-TRAILER MODEL
A PROFITABLE TIMBER CARRIER
From radiata-pine to redgum, from
bridging pillars to telegraph posts,
yonr timber transport costs will stay
down with the big International
AS-162 at work. The Eaton 2-speed
axle is regular equipment on the
AS-162. Ihis axle’s electric-shift
switch mounted on the gear lever pro-
vides finger-tip selection whether for
a low-low steep uphill haul or high-
ratio speeds lor ideal conditions or
running empty.
r
r-p?
' * :
If there g roadwork to be done, put yourself in the championship class with the International ASC-162 and AS-162.
Powerecl with great-hearted Australian Black Diamond Engines these mighty trucks have the pulling power to go
ANY distance. Jheir comfo-vision cabs provide far more comfort and better visibility than the trucks you used to
operate and—MOST important of all—they are built FOR truckmen who will not compromise with “beefed up”
passenger car design. If you are looking for more profitable stock or timber hauling, the International ASC-162
and AS-162 trucks are ready to do your roadwork NOW !
See your International Harvester Dealer
INTERNATIONAL HIA VY DUTY TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
FMT. 767 /36


The bulletin
Wednesday, March 12, 1958
Vol. 79—No. 4074
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man ’
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 204 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE AWAKENING GIANT
ONE of the vital changes in inter-
national relationships is the growing
accord in commerce of Japan and
China.
Japan and Russia have not made
much progress in mutual trading. The
determination of the Russians to make
fishing-rights part of the peace issue
and fihe equal determination of the
Japanese to secure the return of the
southern Kuriles keeps the two
countries in a technical state of war.
The surrender of the Kurile Islands to
the U.S.S.R. was one of the maddest
of the many mad misakes made by the
United States Government.
The Chinese-Japanese relationship is
being constructed on a different basis:
one of Asiatic realism. Within the past
month a Japanese delegation, including
Conservative and Socialist members of
the Diet and representative business-
men, has been arranging with Chinese
delegates the fourth trade-agreement
with Peking.
Progress hasn’t been easy or marked.
The Japanese Government still regards
it as “inadvisable” to enter into any
inter-Govemmental arrangements with
China, to recognise the Chinese regime,
or even to allow a Chinese official
trade-mission to fly the flag of its
country over its buildings on Japanese
soil, or concede it diplomatic immunity.
At the same time the whole matter
has been opened-up on an unofficial
basis which looks official on. the
surface and which certainly will look
much more so as the months go on.
The temptations to a closer relation-
ship, commercial and otherwise, are
enormous on the Japanese side. They
are the same ones which drove the
Nippon Government into the
Manchuria - China adventure. But,
fortunately, against them are set the
Japanese logic and instinctive fear and
hate of Communism, the knowledge
of Russian influence over Mao and
the lesson of Korea, which showed how
eager the Chinese were to gain a foot-
hold dominating Japan and its sea-
communications through the Tshu-
shima Strait, the route of access of
north-western Japanese ports to inter-
national trade.
Japan can find plenty in common
with China, both in the raw-materials
and export markets. In fact, in certain
circumstances access to Chinese
purchasing-power and raw-materials
might mean the difference between
continuance and collapse for Japan, as
it undoubtedly did at a period of World
War 11. If Japan had not then possessed
the power to use mainland supplies
from China there probably would have
been no Pacific War.
The present mission is based on
heavy industry, initiated by the Wuchin
Iron and Mining Company and led on
the Japanese side by the head of the
great Yawata Steel Company. The
primary objective is to discuss the
import of Chinese coal and iron by
Japan. The negotiations have almost
been forced on the Japanese steel
interests, who at first refused to play
for fear that the U.S.A. would cut-off
the vital supply of scrap; but since
November steel prices have fallen into
the pit—by about 13 per cent, in price
—and Germany, the U.K. and other
countries already are substantially
increasing their sales in the East.
There is a visible market already for
half-a-million tons of Japanese steel
in China, and it is quite obvious that
the Japs are playing a game of tact to
prevent schism with the West (which
they cannot now afford) and at the
same time edging steadily into amity
with China, naturally encouraged by
the wily Chinese by every means in
their power.
A Japanese industry-fair was held
in Canton last month! A Chinese
machine-industry delegation will visit
Japan this month and a Japanese
electrical heavy-industry delegation will
go to China in a week or two, and
perhaps set-up trading headquarters
there. If this trend continues, China
and Japan will soon be linked by a
materials-heavy-industry exchange on
a large scale. And since the real
control of Japanese politics resides
under the surface in the great corpora-
tions, closer bonds must follow, and
it lies in the hands of the West to see
that the drift doesn’t go too far.
There is no doubt about the fact that
the Chinese regime is firmly fixed in
office and power and that nothing can
shift it; so the West remains (through
its continued adherence to the “prin-
ciples” of the United Nations, which
does not possess any of its own) at a
hopeless disadvantage in coming to
terms with the Chinese, or at least
making a stab at it. The maintenance
of the fiction that Chiang Kai-shek and
his U.S.-kept-and-munitioned army
remains a nation is entirely due to
American stubbornness and places all
Western countries at a disadvantage in
either dealing with Communism in
Asia or dealing with China on a basis
of hard facts.
The Chinese regime is a dynamic
one. It is infused with none of the
envy and jealousy which pervade the
thinking of Moscow. Much of the
hatred of the Kremlin for the West is
based on an inferiority-complex and
the natural longing of even a half-
breed to be liked by the parent civilisa-
tion from which his conduct has
ostracised him.
No such feelings exist in China,
where the Mao conquerors had a mass
of human dough to manipulate. They
are dealing with a nation which has
in the mass no external contacts to
complicate the process of disciplining
it and brainwashing it and no regard
for outside opinion to check the
brutality and ruthlessness with which
this is being done. The speed with
which the leaders are reaching a point
at which they may dominate the Com-
munist bloc/ perhaps have the disposal
of Russian resources as well as their
own, is startling.
When the Chinese brain really begins
to be harnessed to technology there
can be no question about the result.
There can be no doubt, either, about
the integration of Japanese and Chinese
interests, because in a few years the
Chinese will be able to dictate it, as
they certainly will do through com-
mercial and cultural intercourse, seeing
how deeply they need Japanese know-
how and how greatly Japan affects
China’s power of international action
in the processes of the world revolution
by reason of its geographical position
and strategic possibilities.
Two warnings have been issued
within the past few days —one in a
special document prepared by the
Secretary-General of Seato. This states
that, using a growing military potential
but behind a facade of respectability,
the Chinese “seek by every means to
subvert, to isolate and to divide the
free people of South and South-east
Asia.” The other warning was issued
by Professor J. B. Baxter, chairman of
the Australian Atomic Energy Com-
mission, that China stood first in
industrial potential no matter how far
the country still had to go to secure
dominance.
This position requires some long-
term thinking about British Common-
wealth, and particularly about Aus-
tralian, international policy.
Even more so in Washington, where
the thinking is comfortably circum-
scribed within a conviction that the
United States is the dictator of the
world, and in New York, where the
U.N. scarcely seems to realise that in
a decade it will be, without China, like
a world with one hemisphere broken
loose.


THE RED CLAW


PLAIN ENGLISH
This Freedom
This is the age of the official busybody
and the interferer who talks about
democracy and the rights of man while
his hand holds the pen which signs
progressive death-sentences on the very
things he calls out for.
As one example, N.S.W. Premier
Cahill announced the arrangements,
name, aims and other features of the
N.S.W. University, which is emerging
from the chrysalis of the N.S.W. Uni-
versity of Technology—a name which was
a contradiction in terms, showing that its
founders did not even know what a uni-
versity was.
The essential feature of a university is
its independence, the right of its con-
trollers to do their own thinking and
planning, to express their own views.
But as Mr. Heffron, the founder of the
technological embryo, regarded that insti-
tution as his own baby to be run as part
of the State-school system, so Mr. Cahill
obviously believes that the new university
is a State Department which will do what
he tells it.
He has announced its name. He seems
to be devising its scope. On the
administrative side the procedure must
result in a politicalised, hand-picked staff
loyal to Labor, unless the dons bestir
themselves and demand the right to
manage their own affairs.
A second instance was trivial, but
revealing. Mr. Liberace, a visitor from
the United States, was allegedly denied
an invitation to the Governor’s garden-
party to the Queen Mother, but somebody
supplied him with a card of admission
(issued on acceptance, by some specific
person, of an invitation) and he went. It
has been told in a Sydney newspaper that
orders were given to Security men to ask
him to leave; but Mr. Delaney, the
Police Commissioner, having been intro-
duced to the gatecrasher, countermanded
the orders.
The issue is not whether this is true,
which on current “news” standards it
certainly might not be ; but the astonish-
ing thing is that one of the leading news-
papers in the Commonwealth should
publish the statement without feeling
that such a proceeding by a Commis-
sioner of Police, who was himself only
a guest at the party, was out of
the common and worthy of strong
comment.
A third instance is the announcement
in N.S.W. Parliament by Mr. Enticknap,
Minister for Transport, that he saw no
reason whatever why Railway Depart-
ment inquiries into accidents should be
held publicly, as is done with inquiries
into marine accidents. And he doesn’t
agree that there is “fear in the public
mind.”
The basic requirement of publicity in
inquiry is inherent in British legal method.
There is no term which carries more
odium in the political world than “star-
chamber” —which in the past has been
almost done to death by Labor orators
in particular.
Publicity is not insisted on usually
merely for the purpose of giving informa-
tion about proceedings, but is also a
tacit invitation to those who have know-
ledge to come forward, with the assurance
that they will not be browbeaten behind
closed doors by interested persons and
that if their rights are not maintained
everybody will know it.
This, of course,, is not a method that
rules either in the Kremlin or in the
circles of that great Paladin of Liberty,
Dr. Evatt, whose inquiry into the Blain
‘'gold-pass incident” was a striking
example of what happens in the recesses
of privately conducted inquisitions in
which the reputations of citizens are at
stake. But it is a method which Parlia-
ment should make compulsory by law in
the case of accidents in which life is
endangered.
A final case shows that not only Labor
Ministers and departments have been
bitten by the hole-and-corner bug and the
thirst for suppression of rights and
liberties. The Customs Department’s
temporary banning (now ended, after
press outcry) of the novel The Keys of
St. Peter’s is a striking exhibition of
the official outlook. It involves the
suppression of a book with a world-wide
circulation but which happens to be
anathema to a large voting body.
These have a perfect right to advocate
that the book should be burnt,, if they
so desire. But no official has any right
to act on their theme any more than he
should have the right to ban Catholic
literature which might be found objec-
tionable by some Protestants.
Another Plum for Whyalla
For the second time in a week the South
Australian town Whyalla has had news
of a major industry falling into its lap.
The first was the announcement that
Ampol’s new 32,000-ton oil-tanker would
be built at the B.H.P. shipyard there ;
the second that 8.H.P., which already
operates a blast-furnace at the port, had
agreed “in principle” to establish a £3O-
- steel-industry. This project will
include an extension of the present blast-
furnace capacity and the construction of
a steelmaking plant, rolling-mills and
associated works.
S.A. Premier Playford said on Friday
that B.H.P. had originally intended to
begin work on the project in 1960, blit it
would now probably start earlier, most
likely with the enlarging of the blast-
furnaces. Implementation of the full
scheme will involve the building by the
S.A. Housing Trust of 1500 homes (in
addition to the 400 already necessitated
by the expanding shipbuilding pro-
gramme) ; a power-transmission line
from Port Augusta to Whyalla ; augmen-
tation of the pipeline that brings Murray
River water from Morgan, and probably
a new pipeline to Iron Knob, where a
treatment-plant for low-grade ores may
be established if the pilot-plant about to
begin operating in Whyalla justifies such
a course. The construction of a standard-
gauge railway from Port Augusta to
Whyalla is also contemplated, and Play-
ford is to discuss this with the Prime
Minister this week.
The steel project is the culmination of
negotiations, discussions and arguments
that have been going on between the S.A.
Government and the B.H.P. Co. for
many years, and much of the credit must
go to the S.A. Mines Department (and
its former director, S. B. Dickinson) for
proving the existence of at least 30-
million tons of high-grade ore outside
the company’s leases.
News that their town is to become
Australia’s third steelmaking centre means
the realisation of a dream to the people
of Whyalla. Most of these folk have
only come to live there since the place
began to expand, but there are residents,
still quite young, who have watched it
grow from a dusty township of a few
hundred people to a tidy, prosperous
town of 9000. By the time the steelworks
and ancillary industries are established
this figure could easily be doubled.
Ansett and Butler
The verdict of the N,S.W. Equity Court
whereby control of Butler Air Transport,
Ltd., passed to Ansett Transport Indus-
tries —its largest shareholder —is probably
the best thing for private-enterprise air-
transport that could have happened.
Right from the beginning A.N.A. was
half-owner of Butler Air, and this pro-
portion was later increased, but the fact
was not publicised for political reasons
during the period that the Chifley
Government was all for nationalising
A.N.A. When Ansett acquired control
of A.N.A. the Butler shareholdings
passed, too, but as voting was not on a
one-share-one-vote principle the Ansett
people were not at first able to exercise
their inherited authority as largest share-
holder in Butler. By the Equity Court
decision they are now able to do so.
No airline in the world is so profitable
that it can afford to make anything but
the best use of its aircraft, and there
seems to be little doubt but that the co-
ordination of Butler and Ansett-A.N.A.
resources on a closer basis will bring
obvious improvements to both services.
Ansett-A.N.A. are emphatic that country
services in N.S.W. will be extended and
improved and serviced with more suitable
aircraft; and there is good reason to
expect that they will. There will certainly
be a much greater pool of resources in
available aircraft and personnel to draw
on.
The issue between Butler and A.N.A.
was brought to a head when Butler
ordered two Viscount aircraft; the
Department of Civil Aviation was not
prepared to develop many country air-
strips to the standard required for
Viscount operations, and to make use of
these Viscounts they were put into the
over-competitive inter-State service.
A.N.A. was thereupon accused by the
Federal Government and T.A.A. of using
Butler Air Transport as a back-door
method to break the Airlines Agreement.
Ansett Transport inherited this problem
when it took over A.N.A. The position
js now being corrected.
All that the much-publicised meetings


of Butler shareholders, issues to employees
and subsequent litigation have done is
to establish, as a matter of managerial
fact, what has existed as a matter of
company structure for many years.
But the hullabaloo surrounding the
conflict of interests on the board may have
created bad feelings and false sentiment
in various quarters. This is hardly in the
interest of the continuance of a major
private-enterprise airline in Australia.
Ansett-A.N.A. is the last stronghold of
private-enterprise in the air in Australia.
It is perfectly clear, on analysis, that
the Ansett-A.N.A. motive in insisting on
its right to control the broad policy of
Butler Air Transport was one of economic
commonsense. The industry has to inte-
grate its resources and employ them on
the most efficient basis possible (at the
same time honoring its undertakings to
the Federal Government and T.A.A.) in
order to continue giving the type of service
that the Australian air-travelling public
has come to expect. And that includes
country air-travellers.
Houses and Flats
While Labor politicians have been blam-
ing the current unemployment in parts of
N.S.W. and Queensland on the Federal
Government, chiefly for its reputed tight-
fisted attitude to housing, the leaders of
public utilities in Melbourne are com-
plaining that housing is being extended at
a rate at which they have little hope of
catching.
Their aim, unspecified and unstated
because the Labor party would not
approve, is to halt the sprawl, at least
temporarily, to use vacant land in the
suburbs where all services are readily
available, and to build more flats. Mel-
bourne is undersupplied with flats.
The utility in the worst difficulty is the
Board of Works, which currently has
200,000 citizens waiting for sewerage.
After the war two per cent, of the metro-
politan area was unsewered, but now 17
p.c. is without sewerage, and the nightsoil
areas in these outer suburbs are over-
loaded. By 1960 about 100,000 houses
will have been-built in Melbourne, and
£6O million will be needed to extend
sewerage to them. The percentage of
sewered houses is falling, instead, each
year.
Other complainants are the State
Electricity Commission, which must use
an unbalanced proportion of its loan-
raisings for construction in far-off
suburbs; the Tramways Board, which
has lost the passengers from the serviced
areas; the Gas and Fuel Corporation,
which is spending £1 million a year to
serve sparsely settled communities and
outer-suburban councils which must find
more than £2O million reasonably soon to
construct roads which are long overdue.
Blocks of small flats would provide
accommodation for elderly people living
alone, unmarried people, and young
couples without children, some of them
currently existing in sub - standard
“bungalows” and the like in backyards,
and single rooms for which they pay
long rents.
The royal commission into the Hous-
ing Commission’s operations in 1956
reported very much in this mood by
recommending the reduction of allotment
sizes, the greater use of pairs, row houses
and flats. The current unrest among the
utilities’ boards is due to the belief that
it is time effect" was given to these
recommendations and the strain on their
large loan-raisings eased.
Wishful-thinking
Parramatta by-election saw Sir Garfield
Barwick elected to the Commonwealth
Parliament in the vacancy caused by the
transfer of Howard Beale to Washington,
but with a majority reduced —-at March
10, with votes still be counted —to 4500,
AUSTRALIAN WRITERS'
WORKSHOPS—page 48
against the 10,000-odd at the last
election.
Dr. Evatt rushed in to say that there
had been a “heavy swing” against the
Government. And F. H. Campbell,
president of the State A.L.P., declared
that he was “very, very pleased,” and
that if the swing were repeated at the
next Federal election throughout the
Commonwealth Labor would become the
Federal Government.
Sydney “Herald,” while its news-
columns quoted most of the relevant
figures, said that the “swing against the
Government is unmistakable,” and that
as “there is no clear evidence that Labor’s
two strongest points of attack, unemploy-
ment and housing, influenced the result
except indirectly,” and that “the real
trouble must be diagnosed as general dis-
satisfaction with the Government’s
current performance.”
The actual facts suggest that there has
been little swing (the “Herald” puts it at
2 p.c.), beyond perhaps a small one
contained in a personal vote for a Labor
candidate who is Mayor of Parramatta
and who at municipal campaigns has not
emphasised his support of Labor more
than he could help.
The facts are clearly that Parramatta
has 4000 additional voters, and that in
one division, Rydalmere, 2086 new votes
out of 2581 went to Labor, these voters
being transfers to Government housing-
projects from the inner residential areas
which are Labor strongholds. The rises
in the Labor vote in the various divisions
in no way correspond with the loss of
Liberal votes —in Epping, for instance,
the Liberal vote was down 300 and the
Labor vote up only 11 in spite of a
greater aggregate number of voters. In
Harris Park the vote for the Liberals
was down 230 and for Labor down 40.
Overall there was only an 86 per cent,
poll at the moment when the pundits were
prepared to give judgment against the
Government, against a 95.78 poll at the
last election.
Dr. Evatt’s viewpoint has its humorous
aspects. He has been so convinced of
the likelihood of a swing against Labor
that he ran away from his own seat held
by tenuous majorities to find a safe
Leftist one on the coalfields. Yet a
few months after the transfer was
accomplished he is talking of a Labor
victory. In any case the advent of
Barwick into the House will be an
unhappy day for Evatt.
Operation Penguin
[Ky “Ek Dum”]
As one whose contribution to Antarctic
exploration consisted of being bitten by
one of Shackleton's dogs, which had been
brought to Australia from Siberia en
route, but who has heard at first-hand the
reminiscences of Shackleton, Amunsden,
E. R. G. Evans, Edgeworth David and
some more of the hardship of the early
days, I look on present conditions of
exploration with some sadness.
Time was when explorers disappeared
into the white wastes of the south and
either emerged, or didn’t emerge, years
afterwards to surprise the natives with
their travellers’ tales. And these were
food for a year’s wonder and excitement.
What the ghosts of the years before
World War I must have thought of the
Fuchs expedition I don’t know. It
covered 2200 miles in 99 days’ travelling
from Shackleton Base, on Cahsel Bay
(which it left on November 24), to the
Scott Base, on McMurdo Sound, right
across the Antarctic continent, a trek
equivalent to one from Darwin to
Adelaide, only over much rougher and
higher country—some as high as the
Snowy Mountains range—even with no
allowance for iced-up conditions.
The journey was prepared for by
reconnaissance made by air and dog-
teams flown to the Shackleton Mountains.
“Three Snocats, two Weasels and a Mus-
keg” formed the expedition’s means of
travelling, with N.Z. air-support. A
Maoriland Otter was the first single-
engined machine to fly across the Antarc-
tic continent. And Sir Edmund Hillary,
after it Was all over, made the comment
that the “Snocats were colder but more
comfortable than the tractors he had been
using.”
Instead of the bleak exhaustion which
earlier parties in the days before radio
faced as they plodded in behind their
teams, assuming they had not died on the
way, the Fuchs party, with the aid of
radio, was in touch during the whole of
its journey and arrived to find the
approaches to its destination gaily
marked - out with colored bunting.
They were received as they came in by
a line of parked aircraft and a huge
mound of seal-meat, with flags and salvoes
of pistol-shots firing colored charges.
Their way into camp, where there was
a huge cake waiting to be eaten, was
“hemmed in at once by the enterprising
representatives of the press,” and “British
and American photographers every yard
of the way,” reinforced by “the camera-
clicking men from Scott Base and the
American base at Hut Point.”
Even a fashion-note was introduced
into the reporting of the occasion, and
it was recorded that Dr. Fuchs wore a
(Continued on page 13)


Society
NAD IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
A MAZING the number of middle-
aged women who can’t remember
the Queen Mother’s first visit to Aus-
tralia as the Duchess of York 31 years
ago—-because they were too young at the
time! —“Bicky.”
*
“W.P.T.”: Interviewed on TV,
Liberace sat at a grand-piano and, in
response to a request for just one little
tune, performed some pianistic acrobatics
on the keyboard. Don’t tell me Libby
can’t do things with a piano! This one
kept on tinkling several seconds after he’d
turned away from it.
❖
“R’neck”: Melbourne gapers are losing
their star performers because of the
alarming accident-rate ; no more riding
up and down on the hook or on the load ;
the dogman is in the doghouse.
“XC”: Pretending to read a native
paper to discourage something or some-
one (B. 12/2/’5B) is not quite foolproof.
A young lady who felt sure that her male
. companions in a Damascus-bound train
were obscenely discussing her future
picked up a local paper and started
“reading.” But, instead of shutting-up,
her fellow-travellers started addressing
her in voluble terms. Afraid, she pulled
the alarm-handle, but it took some time
before the guard explained that these
fellows had merely wished to inform her
the paper was upside-down.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: War One troops going ashore
at Durban couldn’t get a drink unless
armed with one of the little pink
“tickets.” Four of us went into a
popular tea-room for afternoon-tea. “Do
you want the usual tea?” asked the
waitress. Quite unaware of what this
remark conveyed we replied, “Yes, thank-
you.” When the doings arrived, I
grabbed the teapot, only to find it stone-
cold. I poured, and into the cup flowed
a healthy mixture of Scotch-and-water.
Ju. .A. A.
V V V
“Criqui”: Directions to radio-taxi
drivers (B. 19/2/’5B) are certainly
received in odd places. On Sunday morn-
ings chit-chat between drivers and a
nearby taxi headquarters is picked up by
the public-address system at St. Mary’s
Roman Catholic Church, Thornbury
(Vic.), and amplified through the various
loudspeakers in the church. The congre-
gation find it disconcerting when, during
a service, staccato calls burst out on them,
for no one seems to have thought of
calling all taxis to take them to heaven ...
though there was a French princess on her
deathbed, imagining herself in her coach,
whose last words were “Au Paradis, au
Paradis, au grand galop!”
ijf
“C.W.S.”: Young man newly at
kindergarten, asked what he thought of
his teacher, gave this considered reply:,
“I don’t talk to her and I don’t kiss her,
but I love her.”
■tje
“Montrose”: The costly car was oozing
along at 70, en route to the ducks, when
its lights flickered, then failed. Under
the bonnet a bright little fire was burning
along the leads towards the maze of wires
behind the dashboard. Then the temper-
ance advocate in the back-seat decapped
a bottle of beer that had rocked and
rolled with him all the way from Mel-
bourne, used his thumb to direct the
foam on the flames and had everything
under control in a matter of seconds.
Three drinks remained Co celebrate the
save. A bottle of beer is now a must in
that car’s equipment.
*>
AT a meeting of our Parents
and Citizens’ Association a mother
suggested that the association buy
a new typewriter for cutting examination-
stencils, because, she pointed out, the old
one printed “o’s” instead of “e’s.” This,
explained the mother, could become
confusing to the examinee. The commit-
tee was reluctant to discuss the matter
until the mother began to quote a ques-
tion from her son’s Intermediate agricul-
ture paper: “Whon brooding 0w05....”
She was cut short by a roar of laughter.
Amazing what a little evidence can do.
The typewriter has been ordered. —
“Boganite.”
A CELLAR BOOK
That admirable poet Slessor
Once said that sometimes she
Was like sherry.
I would rather say that, further.
She (a different she) is very
Like all things stored inside my cellar.
In summer she’s hock-cool and good as
rain.
And laughs overffowingly, like beer
Poured in pewter.
She's special, as champagne.
And though Benedictines may be neuter
She’d loosen vows with their liqueur.
In winter days she stirs fires
In cold rooms, distils like brandy
The ordinary.
As calvados, she conspires
With apples to deceive the unwary
Into a knowledge of desires.
Like claret and all red wine she confers
Good company. I think
She sometimes breaks
Sweetness down with bitters,
Of whose darkening fluid two sharp
shakes
Are quite enough in any drink.
And yet in all these wines and spirits
A wilder licence waits,
That intoxicates
My senses and my wits ;
And no cold star of remorse inhabits
The loving darkness she creates.
s.A.
Geoffrey Dutton.


“I believe I DID say 'Let your hair
down'—but ..."
Temperature in the 90’s in the
small country-town, and the cafe-
proprietress came to take tea-cups away
to be refilled. “How’ll you remember
which is which?” queried the city-type
who was acting host to his wife and
another couple. “Easy,” responded Mrs.
Cafe. “You put your spoon in your cup,
and leave the other chap’s in the saucer.
And I couldn’t make a mistake over the
lipsticks—one’s blue-pink and the other
pink-pink.”—“Tarem.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bait”: Employees at the newsprint-
mills at Boyer (Tas.) were always amused
by the mill-guide’s explanation of how
the “pink” (cut from the heart of the log)
billets were used. “Yes, ladies and
gentlemen,” he would solemnly announce,
“we put these through on their own and
the paper is used for the covers of The
Bulletin and ‘Weekly Times’ and for
all the ‘Sporting Globe”’!
❖ *X* ♦♦♦
“J.J.A.”: It’s twelve years since I last
strolled down Deakin Avenue in Mildura.
Declared it then to be one of the finest
thoroughfares in the country. Just
returned to find the trees twelve years
taller and twelve years more beautiful, the
gardens better looked-after and the lawns
greener. And a mile more of everything,
for Deakin Avenue is planned to stretch
along the Adelaide Road for miles. The
trees are planted and the raised garden-
beds are slowly being established. The
lawns will soon replace the onionweed
and sprinklers the tethered cows. Now,
with a world behind me travelled, after
seeing the avenue again, I wouldn’t dip
me lid to many other thoroughfares.
* * *
“Liewah”: Legend on the wall of a
Rockhampton shop: “We give you credit
for not asking for it.”
“Sevenelms”: Not all
W.R.A.N. drivers in war-time
Queensland (B. 12/2/’5B)
were reckless. At Cairns a
staff-car was summoned by
night to Ward-room, Depot,
and when the sweet young
leading-hand driver asked the
lone officer passenger for
instructions he replied “Just
anywhere you like, dear,” and
slid into the front seat. She
had the old Plymouth into
top-gear scooting back to
the garage with him before he
realised his failure as a
Lothario. The garage duty-
officer was highly embarrassed
by her hasty arrival with the
passenger, her report, and
her request to appear before
the N.0.1.C. A few days
later that grizzled old
commander heard her out
with keen courtesy and finally
encouraged her with “Any
suggestions?” She had: if
all were reminded that correct
Navy practice forbade an
officer’s riding in the front
seat of a W.R.A.N. - driven car
(unless passenger-numbers demanded it),
and if all drivers were reminded that, no
matter how glamorous the. hair-do, the
regulation was that hats must be worn
at all duty-times, then there might be
less knee-squeezing and less temptation
to regard the drivers as Romeo-bait. The
commander thanked her graciously, and
thereafter the transport-department was
more shipshape.
* * *
“Alan”: Tell “W.P.T.” (B. 12/2/’5B)
that the first chemist does not write the
price on the prescription to “set the charge
for repeats.” Pricing of prescriptions is
quite a lengthy process, usually involving
several computations such as sixteen-
sixtieths of 2s. 4d. :> and after checking he
writes the price on the script to allow
the next pill-puncher that much time to
attend to the numerous extra duties
imposed by various Government depart-
ments. Incidentally, “W.P.T.,” the code
is not ANTIMSULPH.
❖ ❖ *
‘‘Doric”: He was arranging a rendez-
vous outside Sydney Museum Station,
and they decided on the Elizabeth-street
entrance, beside that most imposing of
sewer-vents, Cleopatra’s Needle: “I’ll
meet you at the stinkpot!” t struck me
as a suitable title for a popular song, well
in keeping wtih the hit-tunes of our day.
•❖ ❖ *
“Swanee”: The upholsterer advised
my daughter-in-law to buy a dozen
buttons to complete her lounge-suite,
telling her the firm to contact. When
told the price was sixpence, thinking that
was for each button, she said, “1 was
going to get an extra dozen, but at that
price I’ll make a dozen do. Will you send
them up C.0.D.?” There was a distinct
touch of ice in the reply: “That won’t be
necessary, madam. We’ll send them and
trust you to post the sixpence.”
4 ♦>
“C.A.L.”: Boarding the tram at the
terminus for my first daily tram-trip to
the city I was accompanied by a man
who had been travelling the same route
for 16 years. We turned a blind eye as
the aisle crowded with straphangers until
a middle-aged woman and girl stood by
our seat. My friend rose and offered
the elder lady a seat, but I, having half-
arisen to offer the girl mine, was stopped
by a fierce hissing in my ear, “Sit down,
you mug!” I obeyed, but later asked
my friend why he, doing the gentleman,
had advised me against it. “Sixteen
years ago,” he replied, “I gave my seat
to that woman and every morning
since ... That was her daughter with
"Don t let it Worry you, old chap — it's just one of those things."


her; I was merely trying to prevent you
standing on your way to work for the
rest of your life.”
♦♦♦ *** ❖
“C.A.A.”: I was surprised that it takes
two men to empty Melbourne’s parking-
meters ; one unlocks the meters while
another trundles a two-wheel trolley into
which the coins are dropped. Still, look
at all the unfortunates it takes to fill
them!
♦♦♦ ❖
“Pubserv”: A taxpayer who claimed
high dental expenses in his return was
quizzed by the tax-boys and asked to
furnish details. He sent the details by
“I missed you when I Was away, Carol, dear.”
return-mail —both upper and lower plates
badly cracked when they landed on the
bathroom-floor.
»!«
“XC”: The “poor” American
Christmas-tree described by “Curie” (B.
22/1/’5B) is well supported by the
depression story of the Greek citizen who
told a friend he had a full-time job, his
wife took in washing and did some sew-
ing at night, his two boys had part-time
work in a mine and even the youngest
child made something by gathering mush-
rooms or bilberries in season. “But,” he
added, “if it weren’t for the help we’re
receiving from an uncle in America we’d
still be doing very poorly indeed.”
“What’s your uncle’s job?” “Oh,” said
the Greek, “he has no job; he’s on the
dole.”
♦♦♦ ❖
“Binbee”: Chatting to a barmaid dur-
ing a quiet spell, I found that she had
been left by her husband. Lingering over
coffee after lunch, I discovered that the
waitress had been left. Back in the bar,
I found that the afternoon-barmaid had
also been deserted. I extended my
researches: the whole staff of the hotel,
all women, and including the proprietress,
were in the same boat, with the exception
of one chambermaid, who was happily
“married” to someone else’s husband.
Next door to the hotel is a cafe run by
three deserted women.
❖ *2* *
“Bo”: A New Australian acquain-
tance, a Pole, was confused about “shall”
and “will.” I did the best I could, but he
stjll seemed rather hazy ; then I remem-
bered a story about his compatriot
Ignace Paderewski during an Australian
tour. He had flicked his coat-tails back
over the stool, which should have brought
prompt silence, but some of the audience
kept up . their natter. Whereupon
Paderewski looked urbanely out into the
auditorium and said in a loud, clear
voice, “Now, shall I play, or will you
talk?” Lesson promptly heeded, both by
the offenders and by my Polish friend.
♦♦♦
“0.G.”: Carefully preserved in the
managing-director’s office is a page torn
from a chief - engineer’s log - book,
cherished because of this entry: “Full
astern stop slow ahead half-astern stop.
Before one order can be carried out two
more come rolling down. Full astern
slow ahead stop—wonder he doesn’t want
us to go sideways. Again full astern stop
half-ahead slow astern stop then all over
the telegraph stop. We’re ashore again
on another mudbank. Clever captain
put the ship ashore ; let clever bloody
captain get her off again.”
*X* *X* ***
“J.T.”: Queensland Railways have
leased ground alongside their north-coast
lines for advertising hoardings. Within a
mile I am exhorted to read the Bible, go
to Sunday-school, drink rum and take
pills to purge melancholy.
COURSES AND COURSES
“Widower, amiable nature, trots enthusiast,
would meet widow, capable cook, same spott-
ing interest, view to mat.” —Personal column.
Having “had” fried snorks, it seems.
He’d materialise his dreams
Of steak-and-kidney pie of luscious
flavor;
Or a perfectly-fried sole,
Richly-gravied casserole,
A thick rice-custard—these once more
he’d savor.
She need entertain no fears
That she’d ever come to tears
From any outburst of irascibility.
On this point he’s definite,
And she has his word for it:
He’s a bloke of undeniable tranquillity.
You could say this is the case:
That he’s not inclined to place
Overhard conditions on selection
Of his Number Two. She might
Be a Deborah Kerr; a fright ;
Have a leathery or peach-and-cream
complexion ;
Be as skinny as a bone;
Tip the beam at fifteen-stone —
All he asks for is a dame who’ll dish up
dinners
Of a kind that he must feel
He should not sit at, but kneel ;
Then, full and happy, he could pick his
winners.
And it even may ensue
She’ll turn out a wizard who
Can pick the long-odds mokes who’re
really trying.
But his chief concern’s to snare
A missus who will share
His joy at watching clockwork hooves
a-flying.
Well, good hunting, brother! But
Did the thought enter your nut
That matrimonial hopples you’ll be
wearing
Once more from gazing at
Those leathern trappings that
Encase the legs that round the course
are tearing ?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


The Red Claw
By R.R.D.
NOW that the Com-
munists have fastened
the westerly claw of
their pincers firmly on
the strategic centre of the world
we can look out for their next
move in the East.
The Russians control Syria
and, by the union of Syria with
Egypt coming as a culmination
to the events of late-1956, have
now, with the tacit approval of
the United Nations, seized the
Suez Canal.
True, they have not yet
cracked the nut of Israel or
gained mastery in Jordan or
Lebanon. These are tasks left
over for the future ; but mean-
while they have got exactly
what they wanted—a firm base
from which to cut Asia off
from the West. All this has
been done without the need for
them to fire a single shot.
If we look to the East we
must reassess the position in
South-east Asia. Except for
the upheaval in Indonesia, the
granting of independence to
Malaya and the significant
Communist trend of the
People’s Action party in
Singapore, things are super-
ficially the same as they were
at the time of the Geneva
agreement.
The eastern claw is still
halted at the 17th Parallel, that
indefensible and arbitrary line
drawn to separate the Viet
Minh republic from South
Vietnam. But if we could take
an aerial trip over that line
and look down on the Red
River Delta it is likely that
there would be a very great
difference from the scene which
existed when the French left
in October, 1954.
The Viet Minh have had the
opportunity to improve road-
and rail-communications north-
ward to China and southward
towards the parallel, to recon-
struct port-facilities and to
stockpile the Delta rice. They
can have trained their troops,
who “learned war through
war”—irregulars or regional
troops at the time of Dien
Bien Phu, but regulars now—
massed junks in their harbors,
constructed airfields and built
arsenals to produce the arma-
ment and equipment needed
for their forces.
From an estimate of their
previous activities and from a
recollection of their declared
aims, it must seem highly
improbable that they have not
profited from this opportunity.
The effect of this varied and
ceaseless industry would be
that of a gigantic spring being
coiled and held by a trigger,
awaiting the chosen moment of
release. Behind the spring lies
all the weight of China, with
a quarter of the world’s popu-
lation. Ahead of it, in the
countries it threatens, from
Vietnam to Singapore, there
exists an active and enterpris-
ing fifth-column.
One shield against this threat
is formed by the British Com-
monwealth forces at present
deployed in Malaya and Hong
Hong, and by the American
Seventh Fleet. If we were to
make a balance-sheet these
would be our only certain
liquid assets. Without going
into a long strategic discussion,
there appear to be two pos-
sible lines of defence in the
area, one better than the other,
but neither as good as the Red
River Delta would have been.
These might be classed as
long-term assets, provided we
are given the time to develop
them. And we might call the
potentialities of Seato “good-
will”—nothing more at this
juncture.
Behind this must lie our own
resolution to meet the Com-
munist menace and turn it
back —whether we do it, as
Mr. Macmillan suggests, by
forming a Commonwealth of
Humanity or whether, in the
ultimate issue, by force of the world divided as the
arms. But at the present
moment that resolution of ours
—which includes that of the
British Commonwealth and
the United States of America
and all our allies and sympa-
thisers —seems to be remark-
ably disjointed. Everyone
shouts the odds, no one takes
the lead —except the United
Nations when they know they
are on an easy thing, like the
Suez crisis of last year.
Meanwhile, facing us, there
stands that eastern claw, moti-
vated by the coiled-spring in
the Red River Delta. Let us
suppose for a moment that the
trigger was pressed and the
Red advance started, while
simultaneously a Chinese
onslaught on Hong Kong, an
amphibious feint against
Formosa, or an attack on
Quemoy and Matsu and full-
scale terrorist uprisings in
Malaya and Singapore dis-
persed the effort of our shield-
ing forces.
Beyond the narrow strait
of Singapore, the island-chain
of Indonesia would act as
a cut-off to the. Red invasion
and isolate Asia from the
south-east. At such a moment
it might be possible for a
Communist fleet to pass right
into the Indian Ocean and to
complete the encirclement of
Asia. If that should ever happen
Lenin’s dream would be ful-
filled —Asia ready to fall in an
almost bloodless victory, and
decisive step towards ultimate
Communist dominance.
ft is no good our saying that
this state of affairs has sud-
denly confronted us. That is
not true ; it is the logical out-
come of a chain of events that
have followed each other
relentlessly since the end of the
Second World War.
It is no good our saying
that the sentries slept at their
posts. They did not; but we
have left their calls too long
unheeded, claiming that time
is on our side, but doing
nothing to help ourselves.
Now that the whole plot
begins to unfold we and our
American brothers - in - arms
must face the facts and appre-
ciate that the first necessity for
our alliance is singleness of
purpose. Our adversaries have
that, and we can see the
results of it. Let us learn
from them.
It is not yet too late ; but we
shall have to be mighty quick if
we are to save the game. First,
we must have unity. Who can
better point the way, at this
stage, than Australia? By our
geographical position we are
the natural origin of any
riposte against a thrust at
South-east Asia. By our ties
to the Mother Country we are
the heirs to her responsibilities.
By our acceptance of nation-
hood we are a natural bridge
between the Old World and the
New.
"I adore barbecues , don't you ?”


POLITICAT POINTS
In the modern Arab world no one
seems to know for sure whose turn it is
to be assassinated and whose to pay for
the job.
• •
Replying to N. S. Wales Opposition
requests that one of the legal portfolios
be transferred to the Lower House —
Reg Downing, M.L.C., is both Attorney-
General and Minister for Justice —Cahill
said he would consider this request in
any reshuffling of portfolios which might
occur after the next election. But how
does Joe know he’ll be the one to do the
reshuffling after the election?
Health Minister Billy Sheahan
answers questions on behalf of Downing
in the Assembly, and it is only fair to
him to say that he couldn’t get hotter
under the collar or redder in the face if
he were answering them on his owh
account.
• •
On the grounds that it is burdensome,
iniquitous, evil, underhand, unwise,
villainous, hopeless and, above all,
inflationary, Victorian Liberals have
resolved to demand that the Federal
Government should abolish the payroll-
tax.
• •
Calwell returned to his old theme-song
of the unemployment-pool when he spoke
in support of A.L.P. candidate Mahoney
in Parramatta Town Hall, claiming that
the Libs, wanted unemployment so that
the “workers could be more effectively
disciplined.” Then he told his audience
that Australia’s economy was “the worst
in the Western world.” Arthur didn’t
produce any evidence to support this
piece of knocking, but if unemployment
is any guide he’s up a Bourke Street gum-
tree. On a per capita basis Australia’s
employment position is far more buoyant
than that of Britain, Canada and
America.
• •
Plagued by those who want him to
retire and those who want to know
whether he’s going to retire, S’Artie
Fadden said in Brisbane that he’d make
his intentions known this month:
Out of deference to my electors and
loyal personal supporters, I shall announce
my decision to the Australian Country
Party before nominations close for my
electorate on March 28 During a
generation of politics I have had nearly
18 years of Federal Country-party leader-
ship, and since 1949 I have been Federal
Treasurer. If I have doubts —on purely
health and personal reasons—as to whether
I should continue, these are surely
understandable.
The Treasurer has been in the Federal
Parliament since 1936 as M.H.R. for
Darling Downs and, since 1949, Mac-
pherson. Earlier he represented Kennedy
for three years in the Queensland
Assembly.
• •
Bill Crook, who has held the Cess-
nock seat in the N. S. Wales Assembly
since 1949, hds notified the A.L.P.
executive that he won’t be standing for
preselection this year ; he is retiring for
reasons of health. A rush for his safe
coalfields seat may be expected.
• •
W. H. Lonergan didn’t take long to
decide not to appeal against the verdict
declaring the Flinders election void. On
March 4 he told Premier Nicklin his
decision; Mr. Justice Philp thereupon
issued a certificate voiding the election.
• •
Most likely date for the election is
May 3, and the parties are likely to
throw everything they have into the
campaign—the Country party and Libs,
to secure approval' of their nine months’
administration; the A.L.P. to win a
talking-point that will enable them to
claim that Queensland really wants ’em
back in office. But the Q.L.P.’s third-man
vote will really be the deciding factor.
• •
Last year there were 1103 industrial
disputes in Australia, according to a
report issued by the Commonwealth
Statistician, and they involved the loss
of 630,213 man-days. This was a much
better record than for the previous year
(1306 disputes and 1,121,383 man-days);
it was, in fact, the best year, industrially,
since 1942. Coalmines were the scene
of 518 of the disputes and the wharves
273. In the rest of the wide field of
Australian industry there were only 312
disputes. Eighty-one per cent, of the
time lost was in N.S.W. and 15 per cent,
in Queensland.
Minister for Labor Holt sees in the
figures evidence that the arbitration- and
conciliation-machinery functioned .better
last year than before. Excluding the
coalmining and stevedoring industries,
the time lost amounted to less than
one-twentieth of one per cent.
• •
Victorian Hospital Employees’ Federa-
tion (No. 1 division) has protested in a
practical way against the gross interfer-
ence with the civil liberties of two
Hobart watersiders who, with the con-
nivance of the Cosgrove Government,
were forcibly kept from work because
they refused to contribute to the A.L.P.
The hospital employees have called on
the A.C.T.U. to seek legislation to ban
compulsory political levies, on the score
that no union should force its members
to contribute to any political party.
Until the split in 1955, the H.E.F. was
affiliated with the A.L.P. Now it is
associated with neither A.L.P. nor D.L.P.
Some of its officials have leanings to
the D.L.P., but the majority are for the
A.L.P.
• •
“Collins Street”: Because Attorney-
General Rylah complained that it would
upset his Law Department, the Liberals’
Victorian Council rejected motions
aimed at getting J.P.s educated in the
administration of justice and unlimited
rights of appeal from their verdicts. It
was a highly un-Liberal and illiberal
vote, upholding inconvenience to the
public service at the cost of possible
injustice to the citizen.
• •
Amendments to the N.S.W. Landlord
and Tenant Act will release from rent-
control (1) premises that have been
occupied by their owners or vacant since
December 1, and (2) premises that have
been occupied by their owners or have
been vacant for three years at any time
after the amendment becomes law.
Introducing the bill Health Minister
Sheahan said that the amendments were
the fullest possible relief that could be
given at present “in the light of the
housing needs of the community.” He
said that the tenancy laws were a war-
time measure and the Government did
not want to continue them indefinitely.
This at least is an admission. Till now
the Cahill Government has always acted
as though it intended rent-control to be
a permanent feature of the political
landscape.
If these amendments are a result of
the housing conference and are intended
to help the housing-problem their effect
is going to be rather slow —particularly
the second provision.
• •
“G. 8.”: Retirement of Tom Jones from the
position of senior Government House
messenger in Sydney recalls that it was he who
delivered the dismissal notice from Sir Philip
Game to J. T. Lang, Premier of New South
Wales, on May 13, 1932. The incident wasn’t
such a world-wide sensation as the dismissal
of Bismarck in 1890 by Kaiser Wilhelm 11,
but the local impact was terrific. I well
remember the evening-newspaper special
editions selling frenziedly at a shilling a copy
that night—it was a Friday late-shopping night
—and “Tubby” Stevens, the incoming Premier,
touring the streets with the Chief of Police,
who was out to see that there were no disturb-
ances.
Westralia provided an interesting case of
State dismissal in 1896. John Forrest, first and
last Premier of the colony, had put in hand
a vigorous railway policy, but in 1896 he
and his Commissioner and Minister for Rail-
ways, Harry Venn, disagreed, and Venn became
defiant.
Forrest thereupon decided to dismiss him.
A notice of dismissal was written out, and
sent to Government House for the Governor’s
assent and signature. On returning to the
Premier the State messenger was at once sent
to deliver it to the Minister. He didn’t
reach Venn’s house till about midnight, when
all the household was in bed.
Jack Lang was at least “suitably attired”
when he got his marching-orders, but Harry
Venn complained ever after that he had been
dismissed in his nightgown.


“black helmet, white polo-necked sweater,
blue windbreaker trousers and red-
thonged soft leather footwear,” when he
climbed out of the cabin of the leading
vehicle, a signal for the American band
to play as the explorers climbed the hill
to meet a “vast, disjointed party.”
It was fitting that there should be an
immediate press-conference with a proper
climax worthy of the event and its
wonders: “Excuse me, Dr. Fuchs, your
wife is telephoning you.”
And so she was. From Wellington.
The air was otherwise full of wire-
pictures, telegrams, press-messages and
telephone-calls to civilisation. Allowing
for clock differences, the “Times” printed,
next morning, pictures of the arrival!
It was not an adventure comparable
with the early gallantries of the Antarctic,
but it was still one which called for
planning, hardihood and endurance. It
was probably the last great adventure the
earth has to offer until somebody thinks
of boring to the centre of the old globe
and going down to find out what is there.
As was expected by both sides, Sir
Garfield Barwick won the Parramatta by-
election for the Liberal party with a
majority considerably smaller than that
scored by Howard Beale. When counting
closed on Saturday night the figures were:
—Barwick (Lib.), 21,882; Mahoney
(Lab.), 17,216 ; Fenwick (Ind.), 876.
• e
Dr. Evatt interpreted the result of the
poll as “a heavy swing of public opinion
against the Menzies Government, whose
majority has been slashed.” That there
was a swing is undoubted, but its extent
is by no means as great as the Doc. would
like to believe. It was recognised before
the election that. Labor was likely to be
the gainer from the addition of about
4000 names to the roll, mostly in the
Rydalmere subdivision. It was in that
area that Alderman Mahoney made his
biggest gains, improving Labor’s general-
election figures by over 2000 while the
Liberal vote rose by only 300.
In most subdivisions the Liberal vote
was lower than in 1955, but contri-
buting factors would be the presence this
time of an Independent and the known
tendency of Government supporters in
safe seats to be less enthusiastic about by-
elections than Opposition supporters.
About 84 per cent, of electors voted,
compared with nearly 96 per cent, at the
general election.
The swing against the Government was
not comparable with that in the Flinders
by-election in October, 1952, when a
Government majority of 5000 was turned
into a Labor majority of 4300, Yet at the
general election 18 months later Flinders
reverted to the Libs.
• •
The N. S. Wales Government’s Noo
York office will be in Canada House, on
Fifth Avenoo ; rent £2900 a year (not
subject to Cahill’s tenancy laws). Cahill
leaves Sydney on April 5 to open it
officially with the help of W. Wurth,
chairman of the Public Service Board,
and A. W. Cody, Under-Secretary to the
N. S. Wales Treasury. A pity he won’t
be there in time for the Easter Parade.
• •
According to Brisbane “Courier-Mail”
A.L.P. members who moved the adjourn-
ment of the Queensland Parliament to
discuss the “grave unemployment situa-
tion” consider that they scored a tactical
success over the Q.L.P. by being the first
to draw attention to the State’s unem-
ployment-problem. But if the unemploy-
ment-problem is as serious as the A.L.P.
professes to believe, it should hardly be
necessary to draw attention to it. One
draws attention to things that might
otherwise escape notice.
• •
Ernie O’Dea’s Shop Assistarits’ Union
has decided to end its affiliation with the
A.C.T.U., chiefly because of the latter’s
decision to abandon its advocacy of
compulsory - unionism and revert to
preference for unionists. O’Dea was one
of the prime movers in the switch to
compulsory-unionism a few years ago.
Several first-class constables are
reported to have appealed against the
promotion to detective-sergeant of Con-
stable K. F. Gilmour, who was perma-
nently disabled last year in a gun duel
with a gunman who had shot a man dead
and wounded a woman. Gilmour was
awarded the British Empire Medal for his
action, and his promotion is a further
acknowledgment of the gallantry which
resulted in his disablement.
Presumably the protesting constables
are basing their objections on seniority.
Their action does them no credit. In the
A.I.F. a commission earned in the field
was always more highly rated than one
gained in the routine manner at an
officers’ - training school. Gilmour’s
promotion seems to be in the same
category —and in the same tradition.
• •
The Liberal party has been seeking
the views of some of its Federal members
on the desirability of televising the pro-
ceedings of Parliament. Opinions vary
considerably. Many favor putting the
House on TV on ceremonial occasions
and for important policy-statements.
Some advocate giving viewers the whole
works ; others won’t have a bar of it.
In the last group is Minister for the
Interior Allen Fairhall, who says:
Television is an extremely expensive
medium for public entertainment and
education. Neither is available in suitable
form in the Federal Parliament. The
public cannot stand the cost and would
not like the show.
Although some of the glamor figures
of the Federal Parliament may be eager
to make their TV debut before their
beauty begins to fade, there’s no justifica-
tion for doing anything about it while
TV reception is limited to comparatively
small areas round Sydney and Mel-
bourne.
• •
Governments and Government
authorities had 10,200 more names on the
payroll at the end of 1957 than at the
beginning ; private industry 1200 fewer.
In the overall work-force 1100 fewer
men and boys were employed and 10,100
more girls and women. Neither tendency
is a healthy one.
LOCKED OUT


PERSONAL ITEMS
One distinguished soldier replaces
another as Deputy-Chancellor of Sydney
University Major - General Ivan
Dougherty, formerly a schoolmaster and
inspector and now N.S.W. Director of
Civil Defence, takes over from Major-
General Victor Windeyer, Q.C. Both had
distinguished careers in the last war. Both
commanded brigades; both also
commanded the Second Division in times
of peace, and were members of the
Military Board. Otherwise their civilian
careers were very different. Windeyer,
Q.C., is a leading High Court counsel
and distinguished legal historian and
descendant of the first graduate of Sydney
University. Dougherty, on the other
hand, until 1955, when he took over his
present office, was purely an educationist
at high-school and university level. He
seems to be the first Deputy-Chancellor
with a degree in economics.
• •
Eric Cullen-Ward, who went from
Sydney to the U.S. on a scholarship in
1910, returned the other day after what
might be described as an extended sojourn
in the U.S.A. Actually, the scholarship
PUBLIC RELATIONS
was not quite so generous as that: it
took him to the U.S. to lecture in schools
on Australia in general, and on Aus-
tralian Rules and surf-lifesaving in par-
ticular —back in those days of lifesaving
your fastest swimmer hit the water and
reached the patient as soon as possible
and waited for the beltman to catch up
with him. Soon after he arrived in the
U.S., Cullen-Ward’s “schoolboy impres-
sions of America” were being published in
“S. M. Herald.” Followed a job with a
news-service, Indecab, then, by way of
Vancouver “Sun” and others, to assistant
managing- editor of the San Francisco
“Chronicle,” managing-editor of the
same city’s “Examiner” and then
managing-editor of the Los Angeles
“Examiner.” Public-relations was the
next step, and today the firm of Eric
Cullenward and Associates looms large
on the San Francisco landscape. Cullen-
Ward has six children —their addresses
range from San Francisco to Okinawa and
West Germany —and a dozen grand-
children, and the name is, of course,
familiar in these parts, from Sydney,
where brother Rex has just celebrated 50
years’ membership of Chatswood Bowling
Club, to Cobar, whereabouts brother
Geoffrey runs sheep.
• •
Dr. Mannix, R.C. Archbishop of Mel-
bourne, retains his wit at 94. Congratu-
lated on his birthday by a reporter who
said he hoped to interview him on his
95th, the Archbishop said doubtfully,
“You look young and healthy. You
should last that long.”
• •
Show-business in Australia will miss
the vital influence of David N. Martin,
who died in San Francisco on March 2 at
59. He put the Tivoli Circuit into the
forefront of the entertainment world, and
his theatres have staged Old Vic and
Stratford productions to packed houses,
as well as presenting George Formby,
Tommy Trinder, Winifred Atwell and
other world celebrities. For a long period
the talent he imported overshadowed that
elsewhere on the post-war legitimate stage
of Australia. Then other theatrical entre-
preneurs began to follow his example.
Queen Elizabeth II viewed a special
concert from a box in Sydney Tiv.
Dave Martin was a Perth boy who
decided that it was better for a young
man to go east rather than follow Horace
Greeley’s advice. He had had a look-at the
world as a member of a Y.A.L. band
which went overseas in 1911-12; and
later he served in the First A.I.F. From
his youth he was interested in writing,
publicity, “show-business.” In 19L9 he
joined Paramount Pictures, and then
became N.S.W. manager for Universal
Pictures for 24 years. He built the
Liberty Theatre, Sydney, then floated the
Minerva Theatre, at King’s Cross, and
by a remarkable piece of remote-control
finance (share-business mixed with show-
business) developed into the dominant
figure in Tivoli Circuit, of which he
became managing-director. Martin’s
success was in a measure due to his
unrelenting determination to see his
plans succeed, and if they didn’t succeed
the first time to try again in a new way ;
he was never the flamboyant showman,
though show-business was his life. He
was cool-headed and urbane under diffi-
cult conditions, of which, around the
Minerva in the early 1940’5, he
experienced plenty, what time he was
undoubtedly doing much to keep the
legitimate stage alive in Australia.
• •
Joseph Robert Glenn has come out of
the tall timbers of Gippsland (Vic.)
to the managing - directorship of
1.C.1.A.N.Z., via Scotch College (where
he was a prefect, captain of the boats
I.C.I.A.N.Z.
and a member of the football-team), a
senior, Government scholarship, and
Ormond College, Melbourne Uni.,' for
which he rowed. He joined 1.C.1.A.N.Z.
in 1935, was works-manager in the
explosives factory, helped to build the
Deer Park ammonia-plant, and designed
and supervised the construction of Gov-
ernment war-time factories. He became
technical general-manager in 1950 and
general-manager in 1953.
* •
“Tom”: Barker College, Hornsby
(Sydney), is to have a former English Test-
cricketer for its new Head. John Gordon
Dewes, M.A., is expected to take up the
appointment in August. Educated at
Aldenham School (Herts) and St. John’s
College, Cambridge, he served in World
War II; after the war he spent three
years as a master at Tonbridge School,
Kent. For the past three years he has
been a form-master and house-tutor at
Rugby School; he is married, with two
young sons. Prior to winning Test-
selection he was in the Cambridge Uni-
versity XI, and also played for Middle-
sex, several times as captain. He played
for England against Australia in England
in 1948, and toured Australia and New
Zealand in 1950-51 with Freddie Brown’s
M.C.C. team, though he was not particu-
larly successful out here with the bat. He
also represented England against the West
Indies in 1950.
• •
Horace Flower, who will be remem-
bered by a host of graziers and others
as one of Nature’s gentlemen, was, in
1950, forced through ill-health to give up
his job as assistant g.-m. of Queensland


Primary Producers’ Co-operative in
Brisbane. Since then he has been
“wandering the States,” having spent 2\
years in what he calls “Central Australia
(misnamed South Australia),” and now
dwells in Toowoomba “beside the high-
way that runs west for several hundreds
of miles to Cooper’s Creek.” From time
to time he travels among the farmers and
graziers of southern Queensland and
writes freelance material for the press.
One of his items, “Cobb and Co. Still
Runs,” appeared in B. 26/2/’5B.
• •
“Ek D.” on some judicial qualities:
Charles Gray Wanstall, for six years M.L.A.
for the blue-ribbon Liberal seat of Toowong
(before 1950) and for 25 years a member of
the Bar, is the latest addition to the Queens-
land Supreme Court Bench; and, since
he at least appears to have a
moustache, would be likely to have greater
approval from the shades of old-time Banana-
land judges than most of the recent appointees.
These have been out of the old tradition which
prescribed size and whiskers as essentials for
the judiciary. While the old-timers would
have conceded judicial qualities to Wanstall,
J., he would have been lost on the Bench
among the forest giants of yesteryear—Pope
Cooper, C.J., with his side-whiskers, his white
topper, his dog-cart which he drove with
brown gloves, a youthful “tiger” in livery on
the rear seat; Real and Chubb, both over 6ft.,
and with pointed beards, which they used to
express supreme contempt of each other. “I
am at issue with my learned brother Real,”
Chubb would say silkily. On which brother
Real, uncurling his six-feet-four like a carpet-
snake and pointing his facial hair straight at
Chubb's eye, would hiss: “And I very much
disagree with my learned brother Chubb.”
Cooper was the most impressive and old-world
of them all. He it was, when Tom Mcllwraith
refused to increase judges’ expenses, who
telegraphed from Townsville that he proposed
to give general jail deliveries until his requests
were met.
• •
The opening by the Queen Mother of
the immense Queen Elizabeth Hospital at
Woodville (S.A.), about five miles from
Adelaide, crowns the lifelong efforts in
hospital-planning of Sir Arthur Stephen-
son, who, having come back from France
(where he served as a captain in the 3rd
Pioneers, A.I.F. —he won an M.C.), has,
since 1924, made hospital-design his
principal preoccupation as an architect.
He has been a member of various
executive committees of the International
Hospital Federation since 1930, and is a
gold-medallist of the Royal Institute of
British architects. He holds two dis-
tinctions rare in Australia: Honorary
Citizen of New York for work on the
New York World’s Fair, and Honorary
Citizen of Texas. His newest giant
covers 15 acres, was first planned in
1944, has four blocks with 486 beds for
patients and over 500 for medical and
nursing staff. And it will cost about £7
million.
• •
Fred Cutlack, former Bulletin leader-
writer and for many years on Sydney
“Herald,” a Lighthorseman in World War
I and author of part of the Official War
History, is these days to be found running
the Central Garage in Ludgershall,
Andover (Hampshire, England). Writing
to an Australian, Fred explained his
neglect to look-up a mutual friend at
Marazion as follows: “The funny thing
about this island is that, living in it,
you just don’t travel about it —too many
millions of tourists blocking-up the roads
and pubs and trains.” Still, that should
be good for the garage business, Fred!
• •
Lloyd O’Neil, manager of Jacaranda
Press, the publishing concern started in
Brisbane a little over three years ago by
Brian Clouston (manager of McLeods
Book Store) and Sid James (managing-
director of H. Pole and Co., Ltd,, the
printers), is 29, tall, fair, and enthusiastic.
A Melbourne boy, he came to Sydney
when he was 16, worked in Sydney for
A. and R. for six years, then for Cassells
PUBLISHING
in Sydney and Brisbane for four years.
In at The Bulletin’s office in Sydney
the other day he said that Jacaranda Press
is bringing out 35 titles (including
reprints) in the next 12 months, and talked
briskly about bis firm’s future publishing
plans. All of which sounds encouraging
for writers, particularly Queensland
writers. O’Neil’s sporting interests
include tennis —he’s on the Council of
the Queensland Lawn Tennis Association.
• •
Dr. Hans Muehlenfeld, at present
German Ambassador to The Hague
(since 1953), will succeed Dr. Walther
Hess as German Ambassador in Australia
after Dr. Hess (doyen of the Canberra
diplomatic corps) leaves Canberra to
take up his new post of Ambassador to
Mexico, it is expected Dr. Muehlenfeld
will take up his duties sometime in late
autumn.
He joined the diplomatic service after
a distinguished political career. Bom
in Hanover in 1901, he studied law,
economics and modern history at
Goettingen. University and later went into
industry. He became a Parliamentarian
in 1947, first as a member of the Diet of
Lower Saxony, in 1948 and 1949 as a
member of the Bizonal Economic
Council in Frankfurt, and since 1949 as
a member of the Bundestag in Bonn.
Dr. Muehlenfeld was chairman of
the Parliamentary Party of the D.P.
(“German Party”) which forms a
coalition with Dr. Adenauer’s Christian
Democrats. He is married and has one
son, ,
• •
Reg. Ansett has picked his chief
trouble-shooter, John West Lau, whose
friends call him Jack Westlaw, for top-
man, general - manager, of Ansett-
A.N.A., and although he looks rugged
and tough, he is an amiable fellow, with-
out being a gladhander, and his appoint-
ment is popular with the big A.N.A. staff
which remains with Ansett.
After he left the R.A.A.F. in 1946, he
joined Ansett as a driver-instructor and
then became a writer of descriptions for
Tasmanian tours, a supervisor, opera-
tions-manager in Tasmania and of new
Ansett road-acquisitions. After that he
was made Tasmanian manager of road-
transport, airlines and hotels. He initiated
Ansett Travel Service, and then became
assistant-g.m.
At 38 he must be the youngest general-
manager of such a big show in Australia.
• •
John W. Buckley, at present B.M.C.
works-director, will succeed G. A. Lloyd
as managing-director of the British Motor
Corporation (Aust.). Buckley was
originally brought to Australia from
England by Email, for whom he
managed the huge Orange (N.S.W.)
works in Joe Carroll’s time. In leaving
Email for B.M.C. he really went back to
his old firm —he worked for B.M.C. in
England before coming out to Email.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 62, William McDonald, A.S.C.
driver in World War I, who opened a butcher’s
shop in Sutherland in 1919, established a chain
of them in the southern suburbs, sold-out to
A. J. Bush in 1954, and then devoted all his
time to the R.S.L. He had been a great force
in the R.S.L. since its inception, a keen
Rotarian, and a regular visitor to Yaralla
military hospital.
At Kalgoorlie, a fortnight before his 77th
birthday, Sir Harold Seddon, formerly
President of the W.A. Legislative Council, who
split with the W.A. Labor Party in 1916 over
conscription, won the N.W. Province in the
Council as a Nationalist in 1922, and held the
seat for 32 years.
In Sydney, at 81, Clarence August Degen-
hardt, founder in 1920 of the sharebroking
firm bearing his name.
In Adelaide, at 66, Walter Keith Staude,
stud-sheep and cattle-breeder, member of
the Naracoorte Rotary Club.
In Melbourne, at 57, Phillip Crosbie
Morrison, naturalist, editor of “Wild Life”
from its inception in 1938 until it ceased
publication, and Melbourne “Argus” nature-
writer. He had lately been appointed Director
of National Parks for Victoria.
In Sydney, at 65, businessman Walter Patrick
McGrath. On the board of City Mutual Life
Society, chairman of directors of Gearin,
O’Riordan, Ltd., and a board-member of
London Assurance.


ABORIGINALITIES
nrHE swamp on my property doesn’t
look much like a jungle, but in and
around it the battle for the survival of the
species is as grim as it ever was in the
primordial ooze.
At the moment the spotlight is on
dotterels and turtles.. In a dozen places
not far from the water I can see where
turtles have buried their eggs, and
since I’ve never found less —or more—
than 13 eggs in a turtle’s nest, let’s say
those 12 deposits represented roughly
150 potential replacements, of which
probably a dozen would have reached
maturity—enough to keep the swamp
reasonably stocked and the species
reasonably abundant.
That was Nature’s aim, while at the
same time she had the idea of providing
a snack or two for a few other of her
creatures. But when the old Dame set
these turtles on their course there were
no canine species in their competitive
sphere, and she didn’t provide them with
the know-how to conceal their eggs from
the sharp-scented nose; so the reason
I can tell where the eggs were buried is
that I can see where they’ve been dug
up and eaten —I assume by dogs or foxes.
None of those 150 turtles which were to
maintain their species reached even the
hatching stage, so perhaps the turtles in
my neck of the woods are on the way out.
But within a yard of one pile of turtle-
egg-shells a black-fronted dotterel sat on
two eggs. The nest was a tiny depression
less than an inch deep and the eggs were
big—almost as big as the dotterel’s head.
Looking at them you’d say they’d be
seen easily from 20yds. ; take your eyes
off them and you’d have trouble picking
them up again, they’re so well camou-
flaged.
The bird knows that, so she leaves the
nest when you’re 50yds. away. But even
allowing for that near-perfect camouflage,
how is it that the marauders that found
the turtles’ eggs buried Bin. or 9in. deep
didn’t find the dotterel’s eggs on the
surface? I don’t know and I wouldn’t
tell if I did ; that’s the dotterel’s secret
and she needs it. It’s her one chance in
a particularly grim little world.
BASS.
“Far North”: Recalling the lovely
thermal spring at Mataranka Homestead
(B. 22/1/’5B), “Miss M.” forgot one
detail: the spring does not overflow.
After welling-up from unplumbed depths,
the water (millions of gallons daily, they
told me) again goes underground, flowing
under a submerged boulder to reappear
a few yards from the spring in the narrow
stream which later forms the swimming-
pool. This has been widened, but “Miss
M.” can be reassured —the natural scene
is jealously preserved. Big trees still
shade the pool, and wild-life teems along
the great lagoon nearby, where the mighty
little stream joins the Waterhouse, a mile
above its junction with the Roper.
Downstream, the Roper itself essays a
disappearing trick. For a stretch the river
carves its way between contrasting banks
of reddish sandstone on one side and
fretted limestone on the other. At the
“Jump-under” it flows through a porous
bed of limestone. You cross the river
on a weirlike wall, the end of the out-
crop. Above, shallow water strays over
jagged stone; below the steep wall big
fish swim in the green depths. The Roper
has “jumped out” again.
* • * *
“Reyna”: What appeared to be a jet-
black dog loping across a Murtoa (Vic.)
paddock was, on a closer look, identified
by its bushy tail as a fox, the first of that
color seen thereabouts.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: “Maitri” (B. 29/l/’5B),
whose slumbers are occasionally dis-
turbed by the sounds of dry seed-pods
from a bauhinia-tree falling on hard
ground, should try dossing in the vicinity
of a big old rubber-tree. The pods, about
the size of a tennis-ball and roughly
spherical in shape, explode on impact
with a noise-volume equal to that of
medium-calibre rifle-fire. Seemingly the
shattering of the seed-pods releases gas-
pressure built-up inside, with the result
that the marble-shaped and -sized seeds
themselves are propelled over a circular
area of about 10yds. I once saw a feed-
ing hen drop dead in her tracks when a
falling seed-pod exploded beside her.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: On southern Monaro
(N.S.W.) I met an old chap who had a
fine collection of birds’ eggs, but each egg
had only one hole. Asked him how he
had managed to blow ’em, but he said
it was a trade-secret.
• * * *
“Keima”: “Dog Bites Man!” may no
longer be news ; but a recent series of
attacks in Sydney by animals on boys
did make the headlines. First, some
monkeys at Taronga Zoo mauled a boy
who had imprudently ventured into their
pit; and within a week or two a lion had
mauled a boy who climbed on top of its
cage, and an elephant picked up another
lad with its trunk and dumped him.
These attacks are too many to be
isolated events. Can it be that they indi-
cate the beginnings ofya move by the
animal kingdom to avert, say, the threat
to themselves presaged by the possible
atomic destruction of the world —oy
getting in first and destroying the
destroyer, Man?
* * V +
“Tabba”: Warned of the flood-risk
by the Mackay (Q.) police, we got up
early and drove our cars through rising
water to higher ground. As the water
deepened we helped others push ears
through monsoonal rain to safety, helped
the elderly widow next door to carry her
birds upstairs, then settled on the
veranda of our high-blocked house to read
the local paper to an accompanying put-
put-put of an outboard cruising along
Shakespeare Street. One item of news
interested us: “It is understood the City
council will discuss the lifting of current
water-restrictions at its meeting on Mon-
day night!”
« * *
“Sackfair”: Near Norah Head
(N.S.W.) stands a weatherboard cottage
named Gwydir, which drivers of tourist-
buses point out as having been built
mainly of timber salvaged from the wreck
of a coastal steamer carrying that name.
A ship’s ventilator-cowl lying on an
adjacent block of land was, so the guides
claim, also from the wreck, and held a
place of honor on the lawn in front of the
house until the property changed hands,
when the new owner bunged it out —-
history and all. An old-timer who has
lived all his life in the district, however,
discounts the story. He claims that the
Gwydir, a windjammer plying between
Australia and England, was wrecked on
Norah Head in the ’eighties, fully half-a-
century before the house was built.
Another resident gives another view:
There were two Gwydirs—one an over-
seas windjammer, the other a coastal


A ,
Ah? I WnT THINK.
£V£N SAW Me/


steamer; both were wrecked on Norah
Head. To my demur that coincidence
surely couldn’t stretch its long arm to
that extent, he quoted the coaster Patter-
son. She, it seems, went aground on the
south side of Norah Head, was bought
as she lay by a salvage company, and
refloated. Two years later she struck
Norah Head again, this time on the north
side. That one was for keeps.
* * * *
“Armel”: The “Saturday Evening
Post” has us listed as the country in
which explorers met the most setbacks,
judging from our coastal onomancy —
Point Danger, Foul Bay, Cape Catas-
trophe, Anxious Bay, Cape Arid,
Doubtful Island, Hauloff Bay, Hopeless
Reach, Wreck Point, Low Point, Point
Torment, Treachery Bay, Accident Inlet,
Weary Bay, Cape Tribulation, Point
Danger (2), Disaster Bay. No mention
was made of the Melbourne suburb —
Sunshine.
• * * *
“Uramao”: Dairy-cockies around
Hawkes Bay (N.Z.) have added another
whinge to their collection—their cows
have taken to eating down the fences.
No, it isn’t that Strawb and Blossom have
developed back-molars capable of chaw-
ing through hardwood to get into the
lucerne-paddock. The explanation is
simple. The cockles* were injudicious
enough to build the fences of keruing, a
soft Malayan timber with, as far as cows
are concerned, a most palatable sugar-
content.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: Surely “Wommadoo” is
not serious in his contention that by
sliding down the board with the grain
when planing it the Chinese cabinetmaker
would avoid splinters (B. 19/2/’58)? I’ve
never found splinters to be so obligingly
uniform. And what about the edges of
the timber, anyway? The grain on the
edges seldom runs the same way as on
the face. As for saying that
using a saw with the teeth
pointing away from the body is
the usual method —well, per-
haps it could be argued that
the teeth of a tenon-saw point
away from the body,' since that
type is held horizontally ; but
the Chinese cabinetmaker uses
an ordinary handsaw with the
teeth turned outwards away
from the body. And if “W,”
uses a handsaw that way,
then 1 guess he had better start
making himself some chopsticks.
* * *
“Heresone”: We, too, had
a couple of pet galahs who
went in for roof-sliding (B.
12/2/’5B). Their wings were
cut, but they’d climb up the
grapevine to the roof, walk
up the hip, and slide down
the corrugations into the
gutter. Then the carpenters
arrived to add a couple of
rooms. They pulled off the
guttering and started on the
weatherboards, and when the
first galah came down the slide he
found nothing to stop him but the
boss carpenter, 10ft. below. Extricating
him from the chippie's hair made the
liveliest two minutes I ever put in.
* ¥ * *
“Alma”: I was fortunate to be riding a
good pony, bred in the Channel-country
of the Cooper, during the floods in
western N. S. Wales a few years back. A
free-goer and game as they come, he
tackled miles of flooded country, swim-
ming or plugging through mud, with
never a waver. Where possible, I rode
along the flooded roads, the ground that
had been hardened in dry times by con-
stant traffic having been tamped down
enough to make it easier going, even
under those conditions. At a spot along
one road, the little chestnut would
“D’you suppose Ffoulke-Pilkington has beaten us to it?"
“If’s called Anthropologist and Noodles —all
you do is add Water ”
inexplicably leave the road, and make a
wide circle through the boggy swamp,
returning to the road a little way up.
When the water dried back 1 discovered
why. A 1 hole some 20ft. deep and
dropping clean away without warning
had been washed in the road where the
water apparently —to me —ran only a
couple of feet deep.
* * * *
“Knocker Nel”: In cataloguing the
uses of a bushman’s hat (B. 19/2/’5B)
“Manamoi” overlooks one of the most
important—dropping it in front of the
snake that suddenly accosts you, thus
giving you breathing-space, while Joe
stares fascinated at the lid, to search
around for what the coroners term a
“blunt instrument.’’
9 * * *
“Bellfield”: It’s about 35 years since
the cantilever-awning bug swept through
municipal councils in N.S.W. Our local
Civic Fathers were no exception ; only
one, an old-timer, opposed the resolution
that all shopkeepers be instructed to
remove their posts and substitute the
awnings. “Utterly brainless,” he snorted.
“The first runaway will kill dozens. It’s
only the posts that save people. A horse
bolts, swings on to the footpath, and
bang! the sulky-wheel hits a post, the
traces pull out at the holes, the horse
breaks free and nobody gets hurt.” He
lost the day; and that sort of danger
isn’t present in these Dobbinless days.
One shop, however, by means unknown,
evaded the council’s edict. It still stands
with its feet in the gutter —and is worth
countless quids to panel-beaters. On an
average two car-drivers a week learn
that, though it’s generally considered
highly desirable to draw in to the kerb
as closely as possible, an old-fashioned
awning-post changes the complexion of
things—and the shape of the near-side
mudguards.


in our Darling Downs (Q.)
local newspaper:
The Garden Club will meet Wednesday
at 2.30 o’clock. The study subject will be:
“Conservation of Native Pants.”
—“Meg.”
* * * *
“Heresone”: By the way, how did the
keep-to-the-right rule in other countries
(B. 12/2/’5B) originate? In the horse-
and-buggy days the driver held the reins
in his left hand and the whip in his right
—the only reasonable way to drive unless
he were left-handed. So he sat on the
right of the seat to give his right hand
the necessary freedom of action. To see
the road and make the appropriate hand-
(or rather whip-) signals, he had to drive
on the left. Hence our “keep-left” rule.
Were all Continental and American
jehus mollydooks?
* *• * *
“Infantier”: Bill had tried to solder the
broken cream-spout back on to the
separators and had used so much solder
that the finished—and unsuccessful—job
looked like the bottom of a cocky’s cage.
He took it into town and asked the
plumber how much to make a proper job
of it. The plumber considered the spout
and grinned. “Nothing,” he said. “It’ll be
worth it for all the solder you’ve got on
it.”
* * * *
“Corio”: Officials at the Government
jet-aircraft factory at Avalon (Vic.) have
been faced with a unique problem. Native
birds, including such protected species ns
magpies, have created a flying hazard by
invading the field, sweeping over the air-
craft, settling on runways and even
getting sucked into the jet-stream. After
long negotiation with the local shire-
council permission has been obtained to
shoot limited numbers. The birds come
from the nearby forest-reserve of the
You Yangs, which has more species of
native birds, per area, than any other part
of the Cabbage State.
“61 Bn.”: Touching on the death of
Australia’s great rough - rider (B.
19/2/’5B), many an M.O. in World War
II was nicknamed “Skuthorpe”—the man
we couldn’t throw.
* * * *
T>ERTH spearfishermen base their claim
that sharks aren’t dangerous on the
fact that in 10 years of this sport around
W-A. coasts no devotee has been mauled.
That, of course, is nonsiense. Sharks are
dangerous, and divers don’t laugh at sea-
lawyers—they class all sharks over 6ft. as
potential killers.
Spearfishermen have been immune so
far because the sharks they've met
haven't been hungry—or not hungry
enough to tackle something strange.
They’ll pick up a titbit, such as a cray-
fish, but a human figure doesn’t normally
represent food to them, probably because
it doesn’t move like a. sea-creature.
The sharks Australian bathers have to
fear are school-sharks which, because of
illness or old age, can’t keep up with the
pack and are cruising through the shallows
looking for something easy. That’s hard
to come by, so when the shark strikes a
lone bather it doesn’t stop to think that
this object isn’t usually on its menu. It
may even be surprised to find the strange
body edible, and possibly at first it isn’t
particularly tasty, but it’s easy to get, so
the sick shark hangs around looking for
more. It may even travel miles along the
coast visiting several resorts, and after a
while it gets hungry or bold enough to
take a swimmer from a crowd.
That’s the general pattern around the
Australian coast. Man-eaters are made,
and it’s the lone swimmer, whether he’s
fishing or merely swimming away from
the crowd, who introduces them to what
would normally be alien food and gives
.Jlgem the chance to live after they’ve lost
the capacity to pursue their natural prey.
KELMS.
RELATIVELY SPEAKING
Suddenly the grass before my feet
shakes and becomes alive.
The snake
twists, almost leaps,
graceful even in terror,
smoothness looping back over
smoothness,
slithers away, disappears.
—And the grass is again still.
And surely,
by whatever means of communication
is available to snakes,
the word is passed:
Hey, I just met a man, a monster, too ;
must have been, oh, seven feet tall.
So keep away from the long grass,
it’s dangerous there.
S.A.
LAN MUDIE.


Business, Rollery, Ete.
C.B.S. New Issues
TCOLLOWING the contro-
-*• versy which arose in
Sydney when the Commercial
Banking Co. of Sydney, Ltd.,
announced formation of a hire-
purchase offshoot the public
issue of which was to be under-
written by Melbourne brokers
lan Potter and Co., the bank
has now surprised the share-
market with the offer of a one-
for-five new issue of C.B.S.
shares to its own shareholders
at par.
It has also clarified the nature
of the issue by Commercial and
General Finance Co., Ltd., its
hire-purchase venture. Of the
five-million ss. shares to be
issued by C. and G., two-million
will be taken by the bank direct,
and of the three-million under-
written, a million will be
reserved for C.B.S. share-
holders ; but they will have no
specific rights or any particular
quota. Bank shareholders as at
Apiril 9 will be sent a copy of
the prospectus, and it would
appear to be indicated that each
applicant should apply for as
many shares as he feels inclined
to take, and to leave it to the
directors to scale-down the
allotments in the case of over-
subscription.
The shares will be called to
2s. 6d. to begin with.
The issue of 96,000 £25
shares at par by the bank itself
will be made to those on the
C.B.S. register at April 22. As
with existing shares, the new
£25 shares will be called to
£l2 10s., the balance being
callable only in the case of a
winding-up. The amount pay-
able now will be due in one
instalment by June 20.
The issue of C.B.S. shares
will not be underwritten. It
will bring in £1,200,000 and
paid capital will rise to
£7,200,000.
The funds provided will be
more than enough to look after
the bank’s £500,000 subscrip-
tion to Commercial and
General Finance.
The present issue by the
C.B.S. is the same size as that
made in 1954, when it repre-
sented a ratio of one-for-four,
compared with the present one-
for-five.
The C.B.C. Savings Bank,
Ltd., was opened in July, 1956,
and by now has made con-
siderable headway in this field
But the C.B.S. was reluctant
to enter into the hire-purchase
business, and has been, indeed,
the last of the trading-banks to
take the plunge. Its pattern of
part-ownership a 40 p.c.
interest has followed that
generally adopted by other
banks with their h.-p. associates.
The Australian banking
system has been forced into the
terms-finance business by the
fact that hire-purchase activities
are virtually unrestricted by
law, whereas banking activities
are severely controlled.
Two worlds of finance were
coming into existence, in one
of which interest-rates were
kept at a low level in respect
of both deposits and advances,
while in the other as much as
7 p.c., 8 p.c. or 10 p.c. was
being paid for deposits and
“note” money, and being lent
out at an effective rate of from
15 p.c. upwards.
It was inevitable that the
world of banking should suffer
in this conflict, and just as in-
evitable that it should be forced
to do something about it.
Woolworths andT B.C.C.
'THERE has been a good deal
_ of conjecture as to what
would be the destiny of the
dynamic B.C.C. chain in
Queensland, but when Wool-
worths’ offer of three ss. ords.
for each 10s. B.C.C. share came
last week the sharemarket was
so surprised that B.C.C. shares
rose from 345. to 565. in two
days. Woolworths shares
remained firm at around
19s. 9d.
On the figures it is a reason-
able deal. Woolworths is pay-
ing a 12 p.c. dividend, and
B.C.C. Holding Co., Ltd., has
been doing the same. The B.C.C.
shareholder who swaps his one
10s. share for three ss. Wool-
worths shares will get a 50 p.c.
increase in income, but for the
moment will not have quite the
same visible cover for his
dividend as in the past. This is
largely because of big capital-
expansion by Woolworths over
the past two or three years, and
a further year or two will be
needed for this capital to be
made fully reproductive.
In Woolworths’ shares he will
have an active stock with
stabilised earning-power spread
through 264 stores all over the
Commonwealth.
The directors of B.C.C. are to
be congratulated on the deal,
which is a compliment to their
vision and hard work in bring-
bringing B.C.C. to its present
point of efficiency and profit-
able trading. The following
summary of statistics gives a
good picture of B.C.C.’s recent
progress:—
Summary op Consolidated Balance-
Sheets.
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £449,665 £508,318
Reserves and unappropriated
profits —
General .. 455,824 580,824
Contingencies 26,500 34,400
Profit and loss 40,358 33,355
Shareholders’
funds .. .. £972,347 £1,156,897
Loans on mortgage 135,900 223,400
Total shareholders’
funds and loam
on mortgage .. £1,108,247 £1,380,297
Used in the business
as follows —
Stocks .. 559,483 720,949
Sundry debtors,
deposits and
prepayments 19,251 22,843
Cash .. .. 246,952 183,565
Current assets £825,686 £927,357
Current liabilities 543,361 573,348
Working capital £282,325 £354,009
Long-service-leave
provision .. —5,414 —6,645
Fixed assets (net) 750,512 952,109
Intangible asset . 80,824 80,824
£1,108,247 £1,380,297
Summary of Operations.
{ —For Year Ended June— >,
1956. 1957.
Total revenue .. £6,226,570 £7,202,301
Profit after tax 155,518 176,379
Ratio to total
revenue (p.c.) 2.498 2.435
Ratio to capital
(p.c.) . . 34.585 34.502 - .
Ratio to share-
holders’ funds
(tangible) (p.c.) 17.445 16.298
Tax provision .. 129,000 132,200
Dividends .. 45,000 57,645
Retained in busi-
ness .. .. 110.518 117,734
While the ratio of profit to
turnover has been narrowed by
deliberate price - reduction
policy, the ratio of profit to
capital (34.5 p.c. last year) has
been maintained by reason of
increased turnover and the
plough-back of surplus profits
(thus increasing the share-
holders’ funds employed).
B.C.C. Stores was reviewed at
length in B. 27/11/’57. The
name derives from Brisbane
Cash and Carry Stores, founded
by C. A. Fraser, the present
chairman, in 1921. It has
developed into a dynamic chain
of self-service stores, foodstuffs
predominating, on the super-
market principle, with three
retail-stores in metropolitan
Brisbane, 17 in the suburbs and
12 in Queensland country areas
extending north to Mackay,
west to Toowoomba and South
to- Warwick and the Gold
Coast.
At the outset groceries only
were sold self-service, but over
the years the smaller sections,
such as smallgoods, delica-
tessen, cakes and confectionery
have been converted, and now
the stores are completely self-
service.
In the larger units it is
possible for a customer also to
buy fruit and vegetables (pre-
packed and self-service) and
fresh meat, but meat sections,
separate entities within the
stores, are leased to master-
batchers, who operate on the
service plan. In these larger
units a housewife can buy the
whole of her foodstuff require-
ments. Household hardware is
also included in today’s range.
Consent by at least 75 p.c.
of B.C.C. shareholders is
required for Woolworths to be
bound by its takeover offer.
Woolworths intend that
B.C.C. and its subsidiaries will
continue to trade as at present,
following the existing pro-
gressive developmental pro-
gramme, but as subsidiaries of
Woolworths.
The deal will give Wool-
worths a ready-made entrance
into food-retailing in Queens-
land, will avoid duplication of
stores in competition with
“Of course, he's a special case —chronic claustrophobia”


£
How much of
Your Estate
will your beneficiaries get?
Specialised experience in the intricacies of
Estate Administration may well prove of con-
siderable advantage to you—and your depen-
dants. Union Trustee’s comprehensive services
—available at moderate charges, limited by
Law—ensure fullest conservation of your assets
and continuous, competent control of your
Estate. Phone, write or call. There is no
charge—no obligation.
fH«
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMIT!*
(Incorporated la Victoria) ■itoMUked 1883
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Norman J. Carson,
C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton. General Manager:
John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams. Resident Officer
for Northern Victoria and Riverina: S. L. G. MacDonald,
Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell. K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.;
Bertram J. F. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N.
Mathieson. Manager: A. B. Tilemann. Assistant Manager:
A. G. W. Dent. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
District Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Job St.
Pastoral Inspector: R. 0. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT27a
8.C.C., and should, if last year’s
B.C.C. turnover, and profits are
maintained (which is more than
likely), give Woolworths an
immediate return of at least 23
p.c. on their capital-investment,
which, because of the time-lag
in making capital invested in
new stores pay for itself, is
considerably higher than Wool-
worths’ present earning-rate,
though not so far different from
its rate in normal times.
Over the past two years
Woolworths’ ordinary capital
has more than doubled (to £8.7
million). The takeover of
B.C.C. will add another
£760,000 to it. (The proposed
new one-for-two issue by B.C.C.
will now be cancelled.)
In its term to January 31.
1958, Woolworths and its sub-
sidiaries showed a net profit of
£1,252,611, after providing
£720,500 taxation. A final div.
of 7 p.c. made total distribu-
tion for the year 12 p.c.
The large recent increases in
capital are obviously taking
some time to digest, but new
stores should come onto a
payable basis fairly frequently
during the current year. Wool-
worths’ stores are spread
throughout Australia and N.Z.,
and recently it has been
developing the supermarket
idea under the same roof as its
traditional activities. By these
experimental activities in
N.S.W. it has no doubt been
able to gauge the potential of
B.C.C. in Queensland.
General Industries’
Recovery
ABOUT this time last year
shareholders in General
Industries got a preliminary
indication of the loss that was
about to be recorded for the
year ended February 28,
1957. The debit was later
revealed at £35,491.
This year a preliminary
announcement says that over-
all trading of General Indus-
tries, Ltd., as holding-co. for
the Metters group, indicate a
satisfactory recovery for the
year just closed.
No indication of dividend
policy has been given. For
1956-57 an interim of 4 p.c.
was the only ord. distribution
made. For 14 years before
that the rate had been 10 p.c.
The co. appeared to
stumble over its refrigerator
venture, which was unfortu-
nately timed. But it seems to
have done well out of Admiral
TV. Basic and traditional lines
remain baths, stoves, etc., and
demand for these has been
affected by slackness in home-
building. But the potential of
this part of the organisation is
still considerable, though a
query has been raised as to
whether another competitor
may not later on enter the
field in the shape of one of the
U.S. motor firms now
established, through a sub-
sidiary, in Australia.
Ampol New Issues
A MPOL PETROLEUM,
LTD., has decided to
arrange an additional £3,000,000
of working-capital, of which
about £1,500,000 will be in the
form of an immediate issue of
6 p.c. convertible unsecured
notes.
The other £1,500,000 will
take the form of an issue of
ord. shares at par in April,
1959, in the ratio of one share
for every six stock-units held.
When the 1959 issue is com-
pleted the paid-up capital of
Ampol, including prefs., will
be around £11,500,000, exclud-
ing the convertible notes.
Although the share-issue will
not be made until April, 1959,
managing-director W. G.
Walkley says the co.’s purpose
in making this announcement
almost a year ahead of the
issue is to allow stockholders
time to arrange their finance so
that they can take up their
rights.
The issue of convertible un-
secured notes will be made to
holders of ord. stock and ord.
shares on the registers on April
11, 1958. Terms of the issue
are:
They will carry interest at the
rate of 6 p.c. p.a., payable half-
yearly in May and November.
The unsecured notes will be con-
verted into ord. shares at par (55.)
on May 1, 1963.
Owners of ord. stock and ord.
shares will be entitled to one con-
vertible 6 p.c. unsecured note of
ss. for each six stock-units or ord.
shares held on April 11, 1958.
The issue of convertible .notes
will be underwritten by J. B.
Were and Son free of charge.
The co. will make the issue at
par of approximately 6,000,000
ord. shares of ss. each in the ratio
of one share for every six ords.
held in April, 1959. In the mean-
time, the present ord. shares will
have become fully-paid and will
have been converted to stock-units.
Owners of convertible unsecured
notes will not participate in the
April, 1959, share-issue, but sub-
sequent to that issue they will be
entitled to participate pari passu
in any issue of ord. shares made by
the co. for cash or as a bonus at
any time up to May 1, 1963, when
the notes will be converted to ord.
shares.
Owners registered on March 26,
1958, of options (issued in 1954)
to take up shares at 15s. each
between December 1, 1959, and
December 1, 1961, will be given
the righ4 to exercise their options
to take ord. shares for cash (15s.
per share) before 5 p.m. on April
11, 1958. Shares taken up by these
option-owners will rank for
participation in the convertible
unsecured note-issue and in the
issue of one-for-six at par to be
made in April, 1959.
Ordinary stock - owners and
share-owners will be notified of full
details of the issue next month.
Registers of owners of options
to take up for cash Ampol Petro-
leum, Ltd., ords. at 15s. each (being
ss. capital and 10s. premium), will
be closed at 5 p.m. on Wednesday,
March 26, 1958, to determine those
option-owners entitled to exercise
their options prior to 5 p.m. on
Friday, April 11. Registers ot
owners of ordinary stock and
ordinary shares in Ampol
will close at 5 p.m. on April 11
to determine stock-owners and


fey Appointment
to H. M. Kina
fredenk IX
By Appointment
to the late
Kin# George VI
By Appointment
to H. M. King
Gustav VI Adolf
By Appointment
to H. M. the
Oueen of th»
Netherlands
Ji’i :!;i ,tStMLn*U !*•
: 5*W * l«! CUM Cwf; * V
'
CHERRY
5c
iily” rciiiK *to?t!!iSg
Cherry
Heering
|hn 1818 Denmark's
liqueur delight
(or your after
dinner enjoyment
OMf*.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—SWIFT & MOORE PTY. LTD,
share-owners entitled to participate
in the issue of 6 p.c. convertible
unsecured notes.
Ampol announced only on
Feb. 28 that it had ordered a
32,000 - ton “super” - tanker
from the Whyalla shipyards.
In its last financial year sales
of the co.’s motor-spirit rose
by 12.8 p.c. against a back-
ground of an increase of only
5.4 p.c. in total Australian
consumption.
The somewhat elaborate
explanations of the rights of
shareholders and others in the
1958 and 1959 issues by
Ampol are necessary where
convertible notes and “options”
are involved, and Ampol has
done the right thing in explain-
ing them in detail.
Humes’ Bonus-issue
TOURING the last nine
months Humes, Ltd., has
carried out revaluations of the
co.’s interests in its main sub-
sidiaries, in order that “balance-
sheet valuations of shares in
subsidiaries should more
closely represent their true
worth.”
The co. now deems it desir-
able to distribute to ordinary
shareholders the major portion
of the shares - revaluation
reserve by means of a capital-
bonus payable in shares. The
issue will be in the proportion
of one new bonus ord. share
for every four ords. held, sub-
ject to the elimination of
fractions.
The bonus-shares will be
allotted to those on the
register on March 17, 1958.
The bonus scrip will rank
for div. from January 1, 1958.
The ord. div. for the half-
year to December 31 has been
maintained at 7 p.c., the same
as for 1956-57, when 16 p.c.
was paid for the full year.
The issue of bonus-shares
should not be taken at this
stage as any indication that
the total amount of dividend
payable for the whole year to
ordinary shareholders will be
increased, the directors say.
Sales for the first half of
1957-58 have shown an increase,
and “satisfactory profits have
been earned.” The volume of
contracts and orders on hand
has been well maintained, and
profits are expected to be
somewhat better than those in
1956-57. Of the subsidiaries,
Hume Industries (Far East)
has experienced steady sales,
bui some other offshoots are
showing patchy results.
Samphire Marsh
{From L. Owen]
A WAPET press-release stat-
ing that Samphire Marsh
No. 1 well had been spudded-
in on February 18 was very
welcome news. All concerned
must be congratulated on the
celerity with which the drilling
has been initiated despite
formidable difficulties.
It is also welcome news that
a 20in. drilling-bit was used
tor spudding-in. Starting with
this size hole will make
possible the taking of large-
diameter cores at depth—a
most important matter in a
well which is expected to reach
8000 ft. to 10,000 ft. in depth.
Casing of 16in. diameter has
been cemented at 595 ft., and
the well had reached 2359 ft.
on March 4, all of which is
good going.
The information to be culled
from large-diameter cores
(particularly if orientated) is,
of course, more valuable and
more definite than that which
is normally obtained by the
use of those very useful
adjuncts, the electric log and
the sidewall core, to which
slim-hole drilling is commonly
restricted.
The employment of the
newest and most efficient
equipment for the seismic
refraction exploration of the
area is all to the good. The
limitations of this method are
recognised, but Samphire
Marsh No. 1 should act as an
efficient yardstick for check-
ing geophysical interpretations
and for eliminating errors due
to local anomalies.
Consolidated Finance
TTOLDERS of more than
60 p.c. of the shares in
Consolidated Finance
Corporation, Ltd., Sydney,
have accepted the offer of
Lombard Banking, Ltd., Lon-
don, to acquire a proportion
of their ss. shares at 7s. 6d. a
share.
Lombard offered to take
holdings of up to 400 stock-
units in full, or 60 p.c. of a
holding if it exceeded 400 stock-
units.
It was thought desirable
that a substantial proportion
of the shares should remain
held in Australia, and that
listing on Australian Stock
Exchanges should continue.
It is interesting to recall
that Consolidated Finance
was originally Producers’ and
General Finance, floated by
Woolcott - Forbes over the
remains of the old Primary
Producers’ Bank. After great
strife in the Woolcott-Forbes
period, sound management
has brought the co. to the
stage where this . London
finance-house has thought fit
to invest heavily in it at a
premium.
Consolidated Finance has a
paid capital of £1,472,263 in
4,289,050 stock-units of ss.
each and the remainder in 7
p.c. pref. money.
Commonwealth Mining
A N interim report from Com-
monweallh Mining Invest-
ments (Australia), Ltd., gives
the profit won by the co. in
the six months to December
31 last as £40,300, or only
£13,817 short of the total profit
earned in the preceding year.
Divs. received in the current
half-year are expected to reflect
the slump in base-metal prices,
but a maiden 10 p.c. div. from
Western Titanium, N.L., in
which the co. has a large share-
holding, should compensate, in
part, for the lower return from
several other investments.
Negotiations for the par issue
to London buyers of 103,000
, 10s. ords., at no cost to the co.,
have been completed. As the
f.-p. shares sold on the Sydney
’Change at 9s. 7d. last week,
and at around 9s. last month,
the co. appears to have done
well in placing the shares at par.
The recently floated Eclipse
Gold Mines N.L. (Mt. Magnet,
W.A.), in which Commonwealth
Mining holds a 25 p.c. interest,
has announced that production
is expected to commence early
in July.
B.H.P.
A GREEMENT has been
reached “in principle” be-
tween the S.A. Government
and B.H.P. for the establish-
ment of a £3O-million steel
industry at Whyalla, on
Spencer Gulf.
There is already a blast-
furnace at Whyalla, and this
will be added to. Steelworks
will also be established, as
well as rolling-mills and associ-
ated works. Additional iron-
ore reserves will be made
available.
B.H.P.’s half-yearly div.,
just declared, is at the indicated
rate of 8| p.c. p.a.
Comalco and Blair Athol
/COMMONWEALTH Alu-
minium Corporation has
completed negotiations with
the Blair Athol (Q.) companies
for an option over coal leases
in central Queensland. The
aim is ultimately to establish
a smelter on the coast to treat
Cape York bauxite.


"I found him in a cave."


:.y
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A "must” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
SUNFRY SHOWS
Stage and Music
Istomin and Malko
American pianist Eugene
Istomin, soloist with the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra
under Nicolai Malko, needed to
draw only sparingly on his
technical powers in Chopin’s
F Minor Concerto for the
soloist the most difficult feature
is sustaining the lyricism of the
slow middle movement, which
is based on one of the com-
poser’s most distinguished
melodies. Istomin conjured
both poetry and warmth in his
delineation of this, and his
phrasing was unexceptionable.
Malko had even less need to
call upon his formidable
reserves of conducting, for
Chopin’s scoring for orchestra,
in this as well as his First, was
anything but complicated.
The big challenge of the night
came with Schubert’s Sym-
phony in C Major, No. 9, a
work comparable with Beet-
hoven’s Third Fifth, and
Brahms’s First.
Here was a performance
which did nothing to run
counter to Schumann’s famous
pronouncement about it: “Of
heavenly length.” Malko dis-
tilled the symphony into the
essence of song. True, in the
early phases there was some
ragged work by the middle
strings, a lapse for which full
amends were made in the great
final movement, which the con-
ductor brought in masterful
style to a tremendous climax.
The other work was
“Homages” by De Falla, given
a first-performance in this
country. Coming from the pen
of one whose music is steeped
in the Iberian scene and idiom,
this suite of four pieces (each
are to a fellow-composer) is
astonishingly un-Spanish. They
proved—-at least three of them
—rather stodgy. The exception
was a neat little elegy on
Debussy, played extremely well.
❖ ❖ *
“Time Remembered”
“Time Remembered,” by
Jean Anouilh, put on by the
Elizabethan Trust at the
Princess, Melbourne, concerns
a mad French duchess who is
only mad when the wind is in
the nor’-west; when it is in
the sou’-west she knows a
hawk from a handsaw. She
has a nephew, a prince, who
is madder than she is ; in fact,
he never knows the difference
between a hallucination and a
perception.
Anouilh is a follower of
Jean-PauL Sartre, the Existen-
tialist philosopher, and he
seems to be trying in his weird
play to bring this out, though
he does it in such a light and
frolicsome manner, unlike
Sartre, who did it more pro-
foundly, that the philosophic
quest gets lost in bewilderment
or laughter.
The nephew falls in love
with a beautiful but half-
cracked ballerina who has a
penchant for orchids washed
down with champagne and
strangles herself three days
after their betrothal. He
hallucinates a state of eternal
felicity which never existed,
and the duchess stimulates his
illusion by filling the chateau
with emblems and symbols for
the beloved.
Then, for some obscure
reason, she brings down a little
milliner from Paris who drifts
into the prince’s disordered
mind as the incarnation of the
late lamented. She has, how-
ever, certain solid bodily parts
which are lacking in the hallu-
cination, while he has material
assets in the inheritance of the
chateau and an aristocratic title
which have sufficient allure for
the little milliner to overlook
his crackpottery and the
duchess’s madness.
With the skill, quickness and
wit of the French playwright,
Anouilh constructs out of this
flimsy material a drama which
has all the superficial smartness
and appearance of originality
of a contemporary dream-
home. Miss Margaret Ruther-
ford, as the duchess, picked up
his note better than the others.
The veteran actress gibbered,
slithered, jabbered and changed
her facial expressions every
second with a speed that an
Olympic athlete would have
envied. As the milliner,
Darlene Johnson wobbled be-
tween commonsense and non-
sense. Ray Barrett as the
nephew Was complete non-
sense. It any philosophical
point was being made it
escaped this critic’s notice.
*t* ♦> ❖
Ida Haendel
The dedicated few who
assembled at Melbourne Town
Hall for Ida Haendel’s initial
concert were more fortunate
than the thousands of music-
lovers who stayed away. They
heard violin-playing of such
ordered beauty that it would
seem as if no virtuoso could
go further. To add to which
Raymond Lambert was at the
piano. Beethoven’s C Minor
Sonata can no doubt be inter-
preted in various ways, but the
impression Miss Haendel gave
was that the only way it could
be played was the way in
which she played it. The same
could be said of a Bach air,
a Bartok rhapsody and an
extraordinarily fluid piece about
a fountain by Szymanowski.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Mikado”
Gilbert’s texts were success-
fully adapted to modern times
by comedian Grahame Clifford
at the opening of the return
Gilsullivan season at Sydney
Royal. In the 1870’s the lady
novelist may have been “that
singular anomaly,” but in
1958 women authors are 10
a penny, so Clifford substituted
“Rock-’n’-rollerist” in Ko-Ko’s
song about those who wouldn’t
be missed. And when the
Mikado asked him the Heir-
Apparent’s present address his
“Sputnik, Outer Space” cer-
tainly had more point than
the “Knightsbridge” called for
by the original.
There were other good
features about the production,
too. Graeme Bent, his
make-up lending him a particu-
larly grim and saturnine look,
was the best Mikado this com-
mentator has struck in years ;
his clear strong baritone and
perfect enunciation made his
punishment-fit-the-crime song
a joy to hear.
Richard Watson, a huge,
ponderously dignified Pooh
Bah, also brought-off some
polished singing. Terence
O’Donoghue (Nanki Poo) and
Eric Thornton (Pish Tush),
whose voices had previously
been swallowed up in the
cavernous Empire Theatre,
obviously found the Royal
more to their liking; their
spoken words, too, were
admirably clear.
Twenty - year - old Roslyn
Dunbar raised a light but good-
quality and promising soprano
as Yum Yum in “The Sun and
I,” nd captured the air of
tittering impishness very well.
The orchestra, which else-
where did reasonably good
work, played the Overture at
about the standard of the
Titipu Town Band.
Artbursts
Society of Artists
An additional attraction on
the day after the opening of
the Society of Artists' exhibition
at David Jones’, Sydney, was
four beauteous models on a
dais on the ground-floor, dis-
playing the winter fashions.
The hats, it is interesting to
note, have a nice crumpled
look, like a well-squeezed bag-
pipe.
In the exhibition itself most
of the well-known contributors
perform well enough in their
well-known styles: Lloyd Rees
with his monumental land-
scapes, Jean Appleton with
glowing still-lifes, Charles
Meere with his pre-Raphaelite
fidelity, Margaret Preston with
her wildflowers, Arnold Shore
with a lively bit of bush, Grace
Cossington Smith with her
warm checkerboard effects;
and so on including a vivid
slathery abstract by Frank
Hodgkinson.
It gives a general impression
that the society could do with
a new hat; but the autumn
exhibition always does that,
and at least there is a touch
of freshness in many of the
drawings; among which one
learns, for instance, that J.
Carington Smith is capable of


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — 11st Divorce.
TO VINCENT WILLIAM MORRTSON
late of Forest Lodge.—TAKE NOTICE
that DOROTHY UNA MORRISON has
filed Petition No. 3697 of 1957 for
Divorce on the grounds of habitual
drunkenness during three years and
upwards and cruelty and habitual
drunkenness during three years and up-
wards and habitually leaving the Peti-
tioner without the means of support If
you wish to defend you may center an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 19th May 1958 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
J. C. PAYNTER, Solicitor, of 107 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGIiAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN JOSEPH HANLY.—TAKE
NOTICE that CLARICE MAY HANLY
has filed a Petition for Divorce in Suit
No. 168 of 1957 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Sydney by the 15th day of May 1958
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from TAPERELL & PETER-
SEN, Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGIIAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLIFFORD HUNTER SCHAEFER
late of Tamworth.—TAKE NOTICE that
GLORIA ISABELL SCHAEFER has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 353 of 1958
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 20th day of May 1958
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. GEOFFREY
SEE GILLIS & CO., Solicitors, of 18-20
Martin Place, Sydney—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
THE ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
28th March—Bth April, 1958
Don’t miss the greatest spectacle of
the year. At the 1958 Royal Easter
Show yon will see our finest
stock on parade, cattle judging,
wood chopping, primary and
secondary industry exhibits and a
feature-packed programme of
special ring events, including
trotting.
Come to the 1958 Royal Easter
Show at the Showground, Sydney.
10 DAYS—B NIGHTS
m
a light grace usually obscured
in the mournful weight of his
oils and that Arthur Evan
Read’s tropical towns are more
atmospheric in pencil than in
oils. Also among the drawings
are a tender pastel by Murch
and a pleasing, if spidery, view
by Imre Szigeti of Santa Claus
walking along the telephone-
wires.
❖ ♦> ❖
“The Gothic Bank”
The Bulletin critic went
round by invitation to the
E., S. and A. Bank in Collins
Street, Melbourne, with the
intention of having a pregink
at the Archibald Prize pic-
tures, but before he could get
near them he was pounced on
by a horde of bank officials
eager to show him the glories
of their Gothic building. At
the finish he had to admit that
their pride was based on no
mean achievement.
The form is indubitably
Gothic—to be precise, Vene-
tian Gothic Revival—and if the
content doesn’t quite keep
pace with the form, well, one
cannot expect everything in
this world. One has only to
look at the fafade of the
eastern portion, with its
dozens of arched carved
windows, to build one of which
today would cost a small for-
tune, and then at the temple
of song being erected on the
ruins of Allen’s music ware-
house to see .the difference.
William Wardell was the
architect of Esanda. He was a
pupil of Pugin, the English-
Frenchman who went mad on
Gothic and covered England
with lovely buildings. At 42
he went mad in another way
and died of insanity at Rams-
gate. With a similar passion
his pupil built some of the
finest Gothic buildings in Aus-
tralia, including St. Patrick’s
Cathedral in Melbourne and
St. Mary’s in Sydney. His
clerk of works was Alexander
Todd, who built the G.P.O.
and the massive Law Courts.
The woodwork, furniture
and linen-fold panelled office
fittings of Esanda were carved
from Tasmanian blackwood
by Rose, a master craftsman.
A Scotsman named Wells was
imported to do the rich
interior painting and
ornamentation and lived on
the spot while he did it. Half
the world was ransacked for
the material to do it. The
gold leaf in the ceiling,
sufficient to make an inch-
wide girdle round the earth,
was got from Flanders; the
stonework from the red-
sandstone deposits of
Pyrmont, Sydney ; the marble
from Belgium; and the 20-
ton granite pillars, turned by
lathe in the yard of Finn, of
Harcourt, were dragged and
lifted into position by teams of
30 horses.
Only great Jove could have
done it, and Wardell had a
great love for the form of the
Gothic, just as a poet might
have a great love for the
sonnet. We might regret that
his great feeling for the form
wasn’t accompanied by a
greater feeling for the content.
Had he had that he could have
turned his expert tradesmen
into craftsmen and thus have
eliminated the stiffness of
some of the carving.
But the glorious form is
there and, when the light falls
through the tall windows
between the groined arches on
to the heads of the ledger-
keepers bent reverentially
over their rows of figures, we
think of monks illuminating
missals —though they are prob-
ably only adding a touch of
color to our monthly state-
ment.
M.G.S.
Films
“Nana”
The moral decadence of the
France of the Second Empire,
and the social extravagances
which marked that period, are
sharply pointed up in this
French film-version of Emile
Zola’s novel, which traces the
gradual decline in influence and
the slide to ruin of the
Emperor’s Chamberlain, who,
forsaking the puritanical views
which he had often expressed
to Bonaparte about that
monarch’s extra-marital affairs,
becomes hopelessly infatuated
with Paris’s most notorious
actress.
In the title-role is Martine
Carol, who makes no bones
about the lady’s allurements
and insatiable appetite for all
the love, lucre and luxuries she
can wring from her long string
of paramours.
Charles Boyer brings a
polished dignity to the role of
the statesman, and still manages
to give credibility to his
middle-aged amours. The rest
of the cast are impressive.
At Sydney Savoy.
♦>
“Monkey on My Back”
This one purports to tell the
story of ex-world welterweight
champ. Barney Ross, a hero of
the Pacific War, whose addic-
tion to narcotics flowed from
the drugs he was given when he
suffered from malignant
malaria. The harrowing
account of his fight against it
is made harder to take because
of the sentimentality of the
domestic scenes, which
generally include a small
daughter who has a voice like a
rotary-blade lawnmower in
action. Cameron Mitchell does
his best with a role which
suffers from indifferent direct-
ing and poor dialogue ; Dianne
Foster has to register lugubrious
anxiety throughout.
At Sydney Plaza.


;
mutual
progres
National Mutual has an up-to-date range of
policy contracts covering every life assurance need.
You are invited to inquire regarding:—
# Our new low-premium-rate policies for both
adults and children.
6 Our tax-saving superannuation plans specially
designed to meet the requirements of working
directors and key employees of private
companies.
6 Our latest participating group life plans which
provide at low net cost life assurance protection
for groups of employed or self-employed
persons.
THE
HATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF A/ASIA LTD.
(INC. IN VIC.)
350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. TELEPHONE BL 1271
er' i n Li f e Assurance since 1869
A YEAR OF ACHIEVEMENT
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS
“POLICYHOLDERS CAN LOOK
TO THE PAST WITH SATISFAC-
TION AND THE FUTURE WITH
CONFIDENCE.'' The Chairman of
Directors, Sir Robert Knox, in these
few w>ords summed up the National
Mutual Life's year of achievement
in 1957. Illustrative of his statement
are the following salient points from
his Address: —
"NEW BUSINESS, £92,500,000. Our last
1957 figures exceeded by over £l3 mil-
lions the record established in 1956. Of
this amount, no less than millions of
new policies were issued in Australia and
New Zealand. The new business has more
than doubled in th£ last four years."
"BONUS RATES MATERIALLY INCREASED.
It has been found possible to improve
materially the increased bonus scale
adopted two years ago. Bonus additions
amounting to £6,650,000 are being
allotted to members' policies. Our liberal
bonuses coupled with our well-known low
premium rates make the Association's
policy contracts most attractive."
"BENEFIT PAYMENTS TO POLICYHOLDERS.
£8,000,000 was paid to policyholders
during the year, and £11,100,000 was
added to policyholders' funds and
reserves."
"INCREASED INTEREST RATE EARNED ON
POLICYHOLDERS' FUNDS. The interest rate
earned increased by 3/9d.%. Policy-
holders' funds and reserves now amount to
£133,780,000 and total assets are
£138,290,000."
"IMPORTANT DEVELOPMENT. During the
year a subsidiary company, National
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd., was estab-
lished to transact fire and accident insur-
ance business. As profits earned by the
new Company will accrue wholly for the
benefit of our life insurance policyholders,
it is to their advantage to support the new
Company."
"OUR FIELD ORGANISATION. The Chair-
man paid a tribute to our field staff. Our
trained, full-time representatives are well
qualified to give a complete service of
information regarding National Mutual
policy contracts, and of advice to prospec-
tive policyholders concerning the best way
in which their life assurance needs can be
met."


That
Perplexing Problem!
—how will my Estate be administered?
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. Executor of
your Will, you obtain the benefit of an impartial Executor with over
three-quarters of a century’s specialised experience in the Administration
of Estates, and the assurance that the interests of your legatees will be
safeguarded until the Trusts are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such permanence, security or experience.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly with
some trusted relative or friend.
A Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
fQ*
a*
Incorporated in Victoria in 187#
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
TR54.34
NEW SOUIH WALES DIRECTORS:
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capifal (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, C 972,812.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C.. V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones;
J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C.. V.D.; W. E. M.
Campbell; T. L. Webb.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.1.,
K.8.E., C.M.©., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
British Tobacco Co. (Aust.), Ltd.
TLCARKING the return of intensely
competitive trading to the cigarette
market by pushing both turnover and
profit to record levels, British Tobacco
demonstrated last term that neither the
publicity given to a possible link between
lung-cancer and cigarette-smoking, nor
the extensive advertising - campaigns
undertaken by rival manufacturers, had
seriously interrupted its progress or
endangered its position as the dominant
figure in the Australian tobacco industry.
By far the largest manufacturer of
cigarettes and tobacco in the country, the
British Tobacco group claims “a gross
annual turnover in excess of
£100,000,000.” A holding - co., B.T.
operates through a number of subsidiaries,
including W. D. & H. O. Wills (Aust.)
Ltd., British-Australasian Tobacco Co.
Pty., Carreras, Ltd., and S. T. Leigh and
Co. Pty. The group’s two big factories
in Sydney and Melbourne supply approxi-
mately three-quarters of the total Aus-
tralian output of cigarettes, Ardath,
Craven A, Capstan an’d Turf being among
the well-known brand-names carried by
its products.
Plant-capacity has been greatly
increased in the post-war years, in an
attempt to meet the strong and steadily-
growing demand for locally-produced
cigarettes, shareholders in the parent co.
putting up £4,016,543 of new share-
capital and £2,008,272 in share-premiums
in the six years to 1953. Another
£4,000,000 was raised on 6 p.c. notes
issued privately in 1955.
Simultaneous par (one-for-four) and
bonus (three-for-20) issues added a
further £5,348,244 to paid capital
late last term, to take the total on the
share-register to £20,447,308, the bonus-
issue returning all but £3923 of the share-
premiums collected in previous years.
There are 1,710,588 p.c. prefs.
Steady at 10 p.c. since 1954, the ord.
div.-rate has averaged 9 p.c. over the past
decade. Four interim distributions are
made each term.
A “better understanding” with Com-
monwealth authorities enabled the impor-
tation of larger quantities of tobacco-leaf
and machinery during the year to
October 31 last, and by May, 1957, the
group was able to satisfy all demands
for cigarettes—for the first time in 15
years—lifting turnover to a new peak in
the process.
With the absorption of higher costs,
particularly in respect of tobacco-leaf,
made easier by the “marked increase” in
sales, net profit advanced by £272,191 to
£2,555,571 after deducting the propor-
tion attributable to outside shareholders
and providing £2,060,119 (up £136,169)
for taxation and £468,219 (up £77,477)
for depreciation. If the size of the tax-
provision is any guide, earnings were far
from overstated:
British Tobacco and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends ~
Pref. Re-
Oct., Profit. 6i p.c. Ordinary. serves.f
£ £ £ £
From tax provision, etc., £454,727 5,932,210
1953. . 1,078,687 111,188 9 p.c. = 963,970 5,935,739
Share premiums, £669,424 . . . . 6,605,163
1954. .1,909,571 111,188 10 p.c. =1,338,848 7,064,698
1955. .2,006,259 111,188 10 „ ~1,338,848 7,620,921
1956. .2,283,380 111,188 10 „ ~1,338,848 8,454,265
Share-premiums capitalised, £2,004,349 6,449,916
1957. .2,555,571 111,188 10 p.c. =r1,445,813 7,448,486
* After deducting outsiders’ interests. f Subject to
intangibles, £3,995,759 at 30/6/’57.
In the published accounts additions to
“revenue reserves” and a £350,000 pro-
vision for plant-replacement are charged
against earnings to give a net profit of
£1,615,571, or £132,191 above the
corresponding figure in the previous term.
Covering the pref. div. and 16.9 p.c.
on average ord. capital, as against 16.3,
14.1 and 13.4 p.c. in the three preceding
years, the £2,555,571 profit exceeded by
£570,711 the amount required to main-
tain ord. and pref. div.-rates in the
current term. A 2 p.c. interim div.
(unchanged) is payable next month.
While stating their belief “that on the
evidence at present available there is no
proof of a causal connection between
smoking and lung-cancer,” the directors
of B.T. consider that their co. has a
“responsibility” to assist in research into
causes of the disease. As a result,
financial support, involving a “substan-
tial” sum, is to be given to a number of
research projects in N.S.W. and Victoria.
"The new Victorian manufacturing-
centre at East Bentleigh (Melb.) was
opened last year and a 45-acre site
bought in the Brisbane suburb of Sunny-
bank. In the past large-scale production
has been confined to the Sydney and
Melbourne plants, but it is now proposed
to erect factories in both Brisbane and
Adelaide (where negotiations for the
purchase of land are in progress) when
extensions and alterations to existing
factories are completed.
Expenditure on fixed ‘assets (in the
accounts on a conservative cost-less-
depreciation basis) exceeded £1,500,000
last term, for the second year in succes-
sion, but, with the introduction of fresh
share-capital, working-capital rose by
£3,197,696 to £22,938,454:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref. .. £1,710,588 £1,710,588 £1,710,588
Old. . . 13,388,476 13,388,476 18,736,720
Reserves .. 7,620,921 8,454,265 7,448,486
Outside interests 78,675 76,375 75,975
Notes . . .. 2,385,650 4,000,000 4,000,000
Overdraft . . 5,900,075 5,644,734 6,276,449
Creditors . . 3,745,266 3,474,729 4,436,806
Tax provision,
etc. .. 2,095,760 2,672,496 2,706,638
Final divs. . . 267,770 267,770 374,735
£37,193,181 £39,689,433 £45,766,397
Freeholds . . 801,694 1,615,054 2,020,635
Plant, etc. . . 1,781,021 2,192,482' 2,914,320
Shares other cos. 12,101 85,651 102,601
Stock, etc. .. 27,845,279 27,412,825 32,392,635
Debtors .. 2,725,778 4,364,812 4,297,620
Cash, bonds .. 31,693 22,850 42,827
Goodwill, etc... 3,995,615 3,995,759 3,995,759
£37,193,181 £39,689,433 £45,766,397
Supplementing the funds provided by
shareholders and retained earnings with
£631,715 from the bank and a £962,077
increase in the amount owing to creditors,
the co. ended the term with stocks
£4,979,810 (or 18 p.c.) heavier at
£32,392,635.
Unlike its major competitors, B.T.
has yet to market a “king-size” filter-
tipped cigarette, but the board plans to


fill this “obvious gap” in the co.’s range of
products when the necessary plant has
been installed. (At present, “king-
size” filter-tipped cigarettes account for
between 10 p.c. and 11 p.c. of total
cigarette sales.)
Sound finances and the volume of
turnover place the organisation in a good
position to undertake the selling- and
advertising-campaigns engendered by the
competitive nature of the cigarette
market. Sales in the first three months of
the current term “provided a record
quarterly result,” and, with overall
demand for cigarettes continuing to show
an upward trend, the group seems set
for another highly-successful year.
The sharemarket expresses its confi-
dence by pricing the f.-p. £1 ords. at
345. and the “B” ords. at 31s. to
return £5 17s. Bd. p.c. and £6 9s. p.c.
respectively from a 10 p.c. distribution.
The “B” shares rank equally with the
ords. for divs., but are last in line for
return of capital, sharing with the ords.
any surplus remaining after repayment of
pref. and ord. shareholders. Net tangible
backing at October 31 last was ords.
245. 4d. and “B” ords. 4s. 4d.
Peters Cons. Milk Industries (Syd.)
T ATEST portents suggest that backers
of Peters Consolidated are about to
sample a little of the cream now being
churned-out as a result of the group’s
far-reaching expansion programme, which
has been proceeding apace since 1951.
Recently the board reported that a
record demand for ices and frozen con-
fections by the N.S.W. public was largely
instrumental in swelling overall profits
for the first half of the current financial
year, outweighing the effects of a sagging
overseas —primarily Eastern —market for
milk-products and the not overhappy
state of the dairying industries generally.
And, of course, the increased operating-
margins sanctioned by the N.S.W. Milk
Board toward the end of last term have
been taking their full effect.
Gallonage of ice-cream (excluding
substitutes) produced in Australia for the
six months to December 31 last was well
up on the corresponding period of last
year, but the full 12 months will probably
show an even higher percentage-increase.
An earnest of the good trading year
anticipated by Peters took the form of a
4 p.c. interim, indicating a probable return
to the pre-1952 9 p.c. div.-scale, at least.
Since the present group’s forerunner,
Peters American Delicacy Co., opened its
share-register to the investing public 38
years ago, the N.S.W. affiliate of the
Commonwealth-wide Peters family has
been a splendid long-term proposition,
paying-out divs. with metronomic regu-
larity and constantly widening its sphere
of operations. But it is only in the last
20 years that Peters Consolidated has
branched-out from being primarily Aus-
tralia’s leading icecream-manufacturer
into the dairying and allied fields. Today,
the present holding-co.—which changed
to its present style in 1951—holds sway
over 20 wholly-owned subsidiaries:
Peters Creameries Pty. (Taree), Peters
Creameries (Grafton) Pty., Peters Ice Cream
Pty., Nlzer Refrigeration Pty., Dry Ice
Pty., Peters Ice Cream (S-A.) Pty., Foley
Bros. Pty., Waratah Cheese Manufacturing
Co. Pty., N.S.W. Fresh Pood and Ice
Pty., N.S.W. Presh Pood Bakery Pty.,
N.S.W. Fresh Pood Providores Pty-,
N.S.W. Fresh Pood Cold Storage Pty., Pen-
guin Ice Cream Pty., Peters (Property
Holdings) Pty., Byrnes Exhibition Hairy
Pty., Central Equipment and Hairy
Engineering Pty., Haulage Services Pty'.,
P.C.M. Accounting Services Pty., Peters
Creameries (S.A.) Pty., North Coast Milk
Products Pty.
Working in cahoots with the group is
the Producers’ Co-operative Distributing
Society, Ltd., which, in the interests of
rationalised marketing, was co-opted in
1956 as distributor for Peters’ dairying
subsidiaries of such products as butter,
bacon and cheese.
Since 1951, £4,200,000, largely provided
from the co.’s own resources, has gone
into capital improvements, leaving its
mark on the balance-sheet. The expendi-
ture was chiefly in connection with the
new factories at Grafton and in South
Australia, and the extensions to the Ice
Cream Co., Foley Bros, and N.S.W. Fresh
Food and Ice:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital ... £2,116,510 £2,118,517 £2,181,728
Reserves .. . , 2,559,787 2,565,556 2,590,228
Mortgage .. .. 400
Overdraft . . 2,200,479 2,273,205 1,417,092
Creditors, etc. .. 1,381,590 1,066,866 1,164,490
Inter-co. balance. . 69,611 100,303 121,522
Tax provision . . 122,410 104.769 115,163
Final div. .. 96,996 105,856 107,347
£8,547,783 £8,335,132 £7,697,570
Freeholds,
leaseholds .. 2,572,248 2,761,615 2,798,387
Plant . . *v. 2,883,413 3,005,440 2,963,998
Under construction! 177,954 110,562 6,300
Stocks . . . . 1,519,465 1,307,856 731,909
Book debts .. 1,244,071 1,035,431 1,096,823
Shares other cos... 82,276 64.225 40,555
Cash, bonds, etc. . . 29,760 11,700 11,700
Intangibles .. 38,596 38,303 47,898
£8,547,783 £8,335,132 £7,697,570
t Buildings and plant.
Despite an £856,173 fall in bank-over-
draft at last balance-day, current
liabilities at £2,804,092 were £963,660
higher than current assets (£1,840,432).
While turnover figures are not disclosed,
it can be assumed that the liquid position
is causing no real headaches, and a rapid
improvement should be forthcoming now
that the main programme is virtually
complete, as shown by the balance on
plant under construction, which fell
during the year from £110,562 to a
negligible £6300.
A high proportion of total assets is
represented by fixed assets, £5,768,685,
but, even so, freeholds and plant are
admitted by the board to be very con-
servatively valued. Chairman McCartney
claims that “the fixed-assets revaluation
reserve amounting to £1,372,213 is on a
most conservative basis and applicable
only to certain of the assets,” and that
“board policy is to write-down plant and
equipment as expeditiously as possible.”
Of the subscribed capital of £2,181,728,
only £1,051,329 has been issued on a
cash basis. The last placement of scrip
was a one-for-four par issue in 1954-55.
Previously, in 1952, the entire share-
holding in N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice
Co. had been taken over on the basis
of five Peters shares for eight in the new
subsidiary.
Although the dairying subsidiaries
operated satisfactorily under near-drought
conditions, particularly in the Clarence
River region, and the rapidly growing,
more profitable home-market offset the
effects of stiffening competition overseas,
the Ice Cream Co. was, as usual, the
group’s number-one profit-winner. This
unit has been steadily widening its
horizontal dimensions, having brought
several home-State competitors into its
fold in latter years.
The S.A. offshoot, which began
operations in the 1956 term, of necessity
incurred further losses last year, but
continues to make successful inroads into
the southern market, particularly since
absorbing a local rival, and is expected
soon to be operating on a satisfactory
basis.
Icecream-manufacture has undergone
a minor revolution during the last five
years, with the growing popularity of
near-substitutes in the form of novelty
“stick” lines providing an outlet for milk-
solids which are sub-standard in other
applications. Although Australian pro-
duction of the genuine article declined
last year by 271-thousand gallons, the
new types of frozen confections more
than made up the leeway.
Final accounts show that the year’s
trading brought a (visible) £13,176
increase in group net profit, which was
returned as £207,608 after a block pro-
vision of (up £44,642) for taxa-
tion and depreciation. Also charged
against consolidated gross profit was an
additional £29,563 provision for accumu-
lated long-service leave and land-tax, and
it seems that earnings have carried a heavy
burden in interest and other charges
during the six years’ build-up of manu-
facturing potential:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
_ To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £
From subsidiaries, £567,135 .. 1,098,267
1951.. 94,651 9 p.c. = 93,338 1,313 1,099,580
Unexplained reduction, £5792 .. 1,093,788
1952.. 101,434 7* p.c. = 112,218 1,083,004
Excess book-value over cost shares
subsidiaries, £101,324 .. ..1,184,328
Sundry reserve adjustment, £114,819 1,299,147
Tax refunds, £65,363 . . . . 1,364,510
1953.. 160,671 8 p.c. = 136,014 24,657 1,389,167
Addition to capital reserve, £2025.. 1,391,192
Less unexplained deduction, £7BB ..1,390,404
1954.. 170,071 8J p.c. = 144,515 25,556 1,415,^30
Assets revalued, £1,127,018 ..2,542,978
Less unexpl’d deduction, £1470. . 2,541,508
1955.. 183,115 85 p.c. =: 164,836 18,279 2,559,787
Reduction asset-reval. reserves, £9734 2,550,053
Addition to capital reserve, £1097 .. 2,551,150
Share-values adjustment, £92 .. 2,551,058
1956.. 194.432 8$ p.c. = 179,934 14,498 2,565,556
Reduction assets reval.-reserves, £B9l 2,564,665
Unexplained addition, £465 .. .. 2,565,130
1957.. 207,608 Si p.c. = 182,510 25,098 2,590,228
* Subject to intangibles, £47,898 at June 30, 1957.
Modest earning-rates on capital (all ord.
stock) indicate conservatism in assessing
profits,, and since 1952 have shown little
variation —10.3 p.c. (1952), 9.4, 9.9, 9.9,
10.1, 9.7 p.c. (1957).
The sharemarket prices the 20s. units at
345. Given a 5 p.c. final, making 9 p.c.
for the year, yield would be £5 ss. lid.
p.c. At June 30 last, visible net tangible
assets of 445. 7d. gave each stock-unit
a very solid backing.
Supertex Industries, Ltd.
nrHE lack-lustre performance of Super-
tex over the last six years stands
out in sharp contrast to its glittering
earlier successes.
For the first four years of Supertex’s
decade as a public investment supporters


INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant super-
vision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY - BU 3445
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents Jor
Rapid Magrnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
received an average handout
of 16i p.c. on their entirely
ord. capital, which still left a
healthy surplus for reserve-
building. Then in 1952 a
torrent of competitive imports
made the way for a series of
reverses which brought Super-
tex’s scrip to its lowest point
of Is. Bd. last year. Dividend
was passed in 1952, then again
in 1955 and 1956. During the
same six years, the highest div.-
rate was a six-percenter in
1953.
However, the co. is showing
signs that the worst of the
storm has been weathered;
and the sop in the form of a
3 p.c. div. passed to. share-
holders last term —improved
on recently by a 3 p.c. interim
for the current year—at least
serves as a reminder that
Supertex has never shown an
actual loss. Despite the threat
of Japanese competition, the
ss. shares are now relatively
well supported at 3s. 2d.,
although the future yield on
this basis is qualified by a
question-mark. Still, the ques-
tion, in the long-run, could
have a pleasant answer.
Supertex Industries, origi-
nally Pacific Chenille-Craft
when listed in 1948, traces its
origins back to 1940, when
two Americans introduced into
Australia an industry based on
an old American handicraft
employing candlewick in the
manufacture of tufted
embroidery. Operations began
at Alexandria, Sydney, where
chenille products such as bed-
spreads and dressing-gowns
were manufactured. In the
immediate post-war period
other factories were established
at Goulburn, Yass and New-
castle, all in N.S.W. After the
public flotation in 1948, Aus-
tralian Towel Weaving Mills
was taken over and the nucleus
of a dyeing-, weaving- and
spinning-mill set up at
Goulburn.
Decentralisation in the early
post-war years seemed an
attractive proposition, since it
was only in country centres
that a stable female work-force
was readily obtainable. In this
matter, the co. apparently
overreached, itself, and un-
wieldy indirect expenses have
been a major factor in Super-
tex’s difficulties since the post-
war textile boom collapsed in
1952.
For some time now, efforts
have been directed towards
streamlining the organisation
throughout. Attention is being
given to plant-modernisation,
and layout, and staff-
reorganisation, particularly on
the selling and distributing
side. Last term concentration
of manufacturing activities
was completed by the transfer
of the chenille-manufacturing
unit to Goulburn from Alex-
andria, which now becomes
the warehousing and sales
centre.
A long losing run by the
towel division was finally
stemmed in April, 1957, since
which time this section has
been producing regular
monthly profits. Contribu-
ting to this result was the new
equipment installed in the
early part of last term and the
redesigning of the entire towel
range with an eye to customer-
appeal. Forward sales have
now reached satisfactory
levels.
Balance-sheet trends are
encouraging:
Parent and Subsidiary.
1956. 1957.
Paid capital ~,£600,000 £600,000
Reserves .. .. 199,908 200,929
Overdraft .. .. 239,969 162,916
Creditors .. .. 140,038 166,493
Tax provision .. 13,150 15,150
Final dividend. .. lB,OOO
£1,193,065 £1,163,488
Freeholds, etc. .. 111,869 130,426
Plant .. .. 230,874 240,123
Stocks .. .. 532,280 441,612
Debtors .. .. 263,169 296,051
Cash .. .. 663 1,066
Intangibles ~, 54,210 54,210
£1,193,065 £1,163,488
Slocks (raw materials, work-
in-process and finished goods)
tell by a further £90,668, to
£441,612, while book-debts,
after providing for doubtful
debts and discounts, at
£296,051 were £32,882 above
the previous year’s figures. An
additional £77,053 was
knocked - off bank-overdraft,
leaving the balance outstand-
ing at £162,916. On the whole,
there is little room for
criticism in the overall
financial position—that is,
ignoring the fact that the co.
has a large capital to pay divs.
cn.
Consolidated net profit took
a small jump last financial
year, the £19,021 claimed after
providing £14,812 for income-
tax and £42,783 for depreciation
representing a gain of £5403.
Nearly all the profit went into
the 3 p.c. dividend:
Parent and Subsidiary.
Re-
June, Profit. , —‘Dividends— % serves.*
jg £/£,
1953.. 6 p.c. = 36,000 85,334
July,
1954.. 100 5 „ „ 30,000 91,434
Profit sale assets, £12,500 103,934
1955.. 146 Nil 132,080
June,
1956.. Nil 145,698
1957.. 19.021 3 p.c. = 18,000 146,719
* After deducting intangibles, £54,210
at 2/7/’57.
Apparently earnings have had
to bear the brunt of the heavy
financial pruning which has
been directed towards writing-
down redundant materials and
plant. Taking this into
account, the shares —which
have a net tangible assets
backing of 6s. 3d. —seem a
fair risk at their present price.
International Resistance
Holdings
CJEVERAL years of steady
expansion, based on the
anticipated needs of the elec-
tronics industry, have placed
International Resistance Hold-
ings, Ltd., in an excellent posi-
tion to profit from the increased
demand for the specialised
electrical components turned-
out by its subsidiary cos.
Last term saw a spectacular
100 p.c. leap in net profit, and,
according to an interim report
released last month, both turn-
over and earnings continued to
climb in the first half of the
current term. Following last
year’s record showing, the ord.
div.-rate was raised from 10
p.c. to I2j p.c., a 6J p.c.
interim being payable next
May.
Trading through five wholly-
owned subsidiaries, Inter-
national Resistance Holdings
manufactures, imports and
distributes an extensive range
of electrical resistances, capaci-
tors, transformers, insulated-
cables, coils, etc., for use in
radio- and television-receivers,
domestic and industrial
appliances and automotive
electrical equipment.
The business was established
in 1934, when International
Resistance Co. (A/sia) Pty. was
formed to manufacture resistors
under licence from the Inter-
national Resistance Co. of
U.S.A. The present parent co.
was registered in Sydney in
1950, exchanging scrip to a
face-value of £171,930 for the
paid capitals of International
Resistance (A/sia), Wm. J.
McLellan and Co. Pty.,
National Transformers Pty.
(all of Sydney) and Austra-
lasian Engineering Equipment
Pty. (Melbourne). In the
following year the share-capital
of Conqueror Cables Pty.
(Sydney) was bought at a cost
of £12,500 in scrip and £12,500
in cash.
The development of the
group has given shareholders
in the parent co. ample oppor-
tunity to increase their hold-
ings, par issues in 1951 (one-
for-two), 1952 (one-for-four)
and 1956 (one-for-two) lifting
ord. capital from £184,430 to
£525,000, and, with £IOO,OOO
of 1\ p.c. pref. capital, raised
in 1955, paid capital now totals
£625,000. The co. has also
tapped other sources of finance
in its hunt for additional funds,
borrowing £70,000 on 6 p.c.
notes in 1954 and a further
£150,000 last term on 7 p.c.
notes participating to 9 p.c.
A temporary setback in 1953
forced a reduction, from 10
p.c. to 3 p.c., in the ord. div.-
rate, but the position was
restored in the following term,
last year’s 12y p.c. distribution
raising the average rate since
formation of the parent co. to
9.2 p.c.
The introduction of tele-
vision services and the large-
scale production of TV-
receivers stimulated trade
during the year to June 30 last,
wider use of automatic and
mechanical processes helping
the group to establish new
records for output and turn-
over.
Net profit soared to £121,706
(up £61,068), but the actual
result was even better, as the
provision for taxation (up


earn
LONG TERM
5-10 years 7%
4 years 6i%
3 years 6%
2 years 5i%
SHORT TERM
12 months 5%
9 months 4i%
6 months 4%
3 months 3^%
brokers :—■
J. B. WERE
& SON
LONG TERM
SHORT TERM
return
GENERAL CREDITS LIMITED
offers first mortgage deben-
ture stock on long or short
term basis. Interest paid
quarterly free of exchange.
Cumulative stock carrying
6i% compounded on yearly
rests with currencies of 5 to
15. years. . Bankers are the
Commercial Bank of Australia
Limited, from whom the pros-
piectus is available and from
Members of the Stock Ex-
change and Company Officers.
DIRECTORS:
Eric Hughes (Chairman),
V. H. Stanley-Low (Managing),
J. F. Hughes, J. M. Ford,
F. G. Menzies, C.8.E., H. F.
Clarke.
This Is not a prospectus and does
not constitute an invitation to
subscribe.
GENERAL
CREDITS
LIMITED
393 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
8995
£50,470 at £94,280) was calcu-
lated on the rates in force prior
to the last Federal Budget. An
additional £8632 (£29,042) was
allowed for depreciation:
International Resistance Holdings
and Subsidiaries.
Re-
June Profit. Pref. f Ord. — serves.*
30, £ £ p.c. £ £
7% p.c.
’53.. 13,077 3 = 10,500 117,658
Tax overprovided, £2709 . . 120,367
’54.. 40,756 10 = 35,000 126,123
’55.. 64,879 1563 10 = 35,000 154,380
Revaluat’n freeholds, £35,966 190,346
’56.. 60,638 7500 10 = 40,834 202,650
’57..121,706 7500 124= 65,625 251,231
* Subject to intangibles, £153,400 at
30/6/’57.
There was no difficulty in
covering the bigger ord. div.,
net earnings, after providing
for pref. shareholders, repre-
senting 21.7 p.c. on ord. capital,
compared with 13, 19.2 and
11.6 p.c. on the smaller average
capitals employed in the three,
preceding years.
Subject to £153,400 of
intangibles, reserves are none
too substantial at £251,231 (of
which £58,261 has come from
revaluations), the board follow-
ing a reasonably generous div.
policy and relying on a steady
inflow of share- and loan-
capital to finance the growth
of the organisation:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Capital— 1956. 1957.
Pref. .. .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord. .. ... 525,000 525*000
Reserves.. .. 202,650 251,231
Notes .. .. 70,000 220,000
Mortgages .. 89,924 111,303
Overdraft .. 62,161 6,084
Creditors, etc.*.. 192,059 262,140
Final div. .. 24,167 43,125
£1,265,961 £1,518,883
Freehold, plant,
etc. .. .. 472,580 525,471
Stocks .. 436,129 491,111
Debtors, etc. .. 204,739 346,217
Cash .. .. 1,512 2,684
Intangibles ~. 151,001 153,400
£1,265,961 £1,518,883
* Includes provision for taxation.
Book-debts shot-up by almost
70 p.c., but, with the proceeds
from the note-issue, retained
earnings and a £21,379 increase
in the mortgage loan, the co.
was able to cut the overdraft
by £56,077, add a net £52,891 to
fixed assets and carry an extra
£54,982 in stocks. '
If the current level of earn-
ings is maintained the group
may finance a larger proportion
of its expansion programme
from profits, and any early im-
provement in the div.-rate seems
unlikely. In addition to the
planned outlay on plant and
premises, the board has to find
£70,000 in 1959 to repay
holders of the 6 p.c. notes.
At 11s. 9d. the f.-p. ss. ords.
would return £5 6s. 3d. from a
p.c. div. Net tangible cover
at June 30 last was ss. lid.
Hanimex Corporation
TN the market for £150,000 of
A new share-capital less than
a year ago, Hanimex Corpora-
tion, Ltd., is currently offering
shareholders 567,560 ss. ords.
at par, in the ratio of two new
shares for every five held. The
issue of an additional 13,540
ords., at par, to “employees and
associates” will take paid
capital (all in ords.) to a round
£500,000. Scrip in the co. was
first listed on Sydney and Mel-
bourne ’Changes last May.
Registered in Canberra in
1956, Hanimex heads a large
family of subsidiary cos., the
oldest of which was formed in
N.SAV. a little over 10 years
ago. The group is engaged in
the manufacture, export, import’
and distribution of photo-
graphic equipment, holding
agencies for several German
products and producing slide-
projectors, slide-viewers, etc.,
under licence from Argus
Cameras, Inc., of U.S.A. The
manufacturing otfshoot, Fotek
Corp. Pty., recently set-up its
headquarters in a new £250,000
factory at Brookvale (Sydney).
The group maintains its own
sales-organisations in U.K.,
U.S.A. and N.Z. [owning 50
P-c. of the ord. capital in Hani-
mex (N.Z.), Ltd.] as well as in
Australia. Hanimex (U.K.),
Ltd., is showing signs of becom-
ing the most active unit in the
export side of the business now
that difficulties over the appli-
cation of preferential Customs-
duty on imports from Australia
have been ironed-out.
Last term’s final div. was cal-
culated at the rate of 12} p.c.
p.a. (although the total distribu-
tion for the year added up to
only lOf p.c.), and a 6} p.c.
div. is payable next
month. The new shares will
participate in the next final div.
at half the rate paid on the old
scrip. On a paid capital of
£500,000 a 12y p.c. div. would
call for £62,500, or £5044 less
than the £67,544 net profit
earned by the group in the year
to June 30 last, during which
period Hanimex (U.K.), Ltd.,
traded for only one month.
In the half-year to December
31, 1957, group earnings, after
providing £30,321 for taxation,
amounted to £47,320, compared
with £42,205 (after allowing for
taxation at higher rates) in the
corresponding half of 1956.
Finances were in reasonably
good shape at June 30 last,
current assets (£692,543) exceed-
ing liabilities and provisions by
£238,166, but there was little in
the way of reserves, retained
earnings (£46,559) falling
£23,397 short of intangibles.
Production of the Argus 75
camera was commenced
recently, and preparations are
being made for the manufac-
ture of other new lines, the
fresh capital being required to
finance the necessary additions
to plant and to strengthen
working-capital.
Overall demand for photo-
graphic equipment has tended
to weaken in recent months,
while competition, particularly
from Japanese products,
remains keen ; but on “current
indications” the Hanimex board
expects group sales to be
“maintained” in 1958.
Rights to the new issue sold
last week at 2s. 5d., the f.-p. ss.
ords. yielding £8 14s. sd. from
a 12} p.c. div. at 7s. 2d.


Larges! Australian Coy
Conducting all classes of
FIRE
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
IF it suits you to dally in the
gutter or to saunter —vicari-
ously, of course —through the
back-alleys of sin, perversion
01 sex, come to London and
do the plays. Our theatre is at
the high-noon of human error.
At the Globe, “The Potting
Shed” reveals with craftful
•method a man’s Guilty Secret
(he hanged himself in the
back garden when a boy but
was saved by a miracle of
faith on the part of a Roman
Catholic priest who later took
to the bottle). Author? Guess
who! Initials are G.G.
The Royal Court has dis-
interred “Epitaph for George
Dillon,” an early effort of
John Osborne and a collabora-
tor. This, like Beethoven’s
notebooks, is instructive in so
far as it uncovers the ideas
which, developed and
brought to maturity, were
later to revivify the com-
placent English theatre. It
concerns a would-be play-
wright who thinks he’s a
neglected genius and behaves
like one. He’s all for taking
and his landlady’s all for giv-
ing, but, older both in years
and experience, she resists his
self-pity and withholds her
sympathy just in time —for
him to seduce her daughter on
the rebound.
The Arts Theatre Club is
more its old self with a five-
hour evening, including a
dinner-interval, of Eugene
O’Neill. “The Iceman
Cometh” is an extended
dialogue, with little incident,
between drunks, prostitutes,
deadbeats and no-hopers in a
waterfront joint. For all this
and its repetitious length (the
late author’s will expressly
forbids cutting) there is, one
learns, literary power and
inherent greatness. As a
dramatic experience it must
not be missed —if you can get
a seat.
Finally, for the ultimate in
concentrated error (that puts
it lightly) our other “private”
theatre, the New Watergate,
offers “Cat on a Hot Tin
Roof.” Alcoholism, sterility,
homosexuality, cancer and its
clinical progression (“Big
Daddy ought to start on mor-
phine”) and vicious family
enmities are some of the high-
lights of the usual Tennessee
Williams background of pro-
fanity, folksiness and (to
some) blasphemy. Add to this
at least two bad miscastings
and a production that is hope-
lessly wrongly conceived and
the evening is as "misspent as
the play.
For This Relief
How exhilarating, after all
these abnormalities, it is to see
a play about people who,
though often unhappy and
beset by real problems and
sorrows, are ordinary and
everyday without being stodgy
and dull!
“A Touch of the Sun”
(Saville Theatre) is a double
triumph: in the timing of its
presentation and in the
achievement of its author,
N. C. Hunter, whose reputa-
tion and financial success rest
upon two quasi-Chekhovian
plays that served as vehicles
for star actors. He has now
shown that he can write an
original play as well as, say,
Terence Rattigan or Wynyard
Browne.
His new comedy is essenti-
ally “well-made,” rich in
craftsmanship and full of
understanding; it is, perhaps,
rather too neat and tidy, for
the knots that tie-up the loose
ends are conspicuous and
some of the thinner charaters
are brought too far forward.
But the basic situation —an
old dramatic acquaintance, the
disturbing effect of opulence
on the impoverished is
handled with such consum-
mate skill as to seem quite
fresh.
Philip Lester is a master at
a private school for backward
boys. Although always hard-
up, his loyalty to the head-
master and his lack of drive
prevent him from seeking a
move. He is kindly but
pedantic, self-sufficient and
procrastinating. A younger
brother who has hero-
worshipped him is married to
a Canadian heiress and pre-
vails upon the Lester family to
join them at their villa near
Cannes, even to paying their
fares. This provides a second
act memorable for its comedy,
tension and drama Wife and
young daughter, long-suffering
in their patient submission to
debilitating shabby gentility,
make the most of the glamorous
Riviera atmosphere, letting
themselves go but stopping just
short of losing their heads. The
schoolmaster is not only an im-
possible stick-in-the-mud; he is
also a deliberately cruel spoil-
sport, prematurely cutting the
holiday short, as if in punish-
ment.
This bare account in no way
conveys the, variety and depth
of character, the range of
dialogue, and the skill which
effectively integrates natural
feelings, doubts, experiences
and conflicts into drama. The
dialogue at the beginning of
Act 11, for example, is entirely
atmospheric ; it is as intoxica-
ting as the champagne which,
working upon the unaccus-
tomed daughter, leads to the
climax. And, although nothing
much more remains to be said
after this, the author resolves
the anticlimacteric homecoming
with a straightforward approach
and quite without artistic
chicanery.
The acting, too, is
momentous, especially Michael
Redgrave’s schoolmaster
a veritable gem of gradation
and definition. Diana Wynyard
is not wholly convincing as the
mousy wife, but gives tre-
mendous power and dignity to
the later scenes. Vanessa Red-
grave makes an astonishingly
natural English girl, both as a
student nurse and as a once-
for-all socialite. Martin Miller’s
part as a holiday-minded
tycoon, though an actor’s gift,
is uproariously funny. And
Louise Allbritton's sharp-
tongued “I-wear-the-trousers”
heiress is appropriately soignee
and incisive.
A most enjoyable, thought-
provoking play.
Sticky Wicket
A professional is easily
defined. He is “any cricketer
directly or indirectly paid for
playing cricket.” Not so the
amateur, whose status has
become more and more
obscure. In fact, the distinction
has become so farcical that
even that exclusive upholder of
tradition, the M.G.C., has been,
forced to set up a committee,
under the chairmanship of the
Duke of Norfolk, “to examine
the problem of amateur status
in the light of present-day con-
ditions.”
Besides seeking to “eliminate
any major anomaly” the com-
mittee was prompted by “the
wish to preserve the leader-
ship and general approach to
the game traditionally associ-
ated with the amateur, and to
ensure that the leading amateurs
are not prevented by the hard
facts of present-day economics
from accepting invitations to
accompany major M.C.C. tour-
ing teams.”
For subtlety, of phrasing
and duality of objective this
latter sentence takes some
beating. It combines an abstract
ideal (exemplified, let us say,
by a Freddie Brown) with
deliberate, practical policy
(to field the best possible XI
against Australia and at the
same time to keep the status
quo of gentlemen and players).
Which is which Godfrey
Evans, who, by his own
acumen, has built-up a success-
ful business and who entertains
his customers at the Ritz, or
A. N. Other, who, after leaving
Oxbridge with a Blue, “goes
into business” (a Loamshire
director’s) with a clause in his
service-agreement releasing him
to play cricket when required?
Is he not indirectly paid for
playing cricket? Specifically,
“any cricketer carrying out full-
time administrative duties with
a county club should continue
to be regarded as an amateur.”
If full-time, how will he be
able to play cricket during the
day?
This kind of rationalisation
seems to make the distinction
more ridiculous than ever.
Some amateurs, it would seem,
are more amateur than others.
But they are few (David
Sheppard, who plays only when
church duties permit, is a
notable example).
One wonders whether the so-
called “amateur qualities” are
confined to leadership and
approach to the game. Not all
amateurs are dashing and not
all professionals are stodgy.
Perhaps there is just a faint
relic of undeliberate and Col.
Newcombe class-consciousness
which still hangs about the
committee-rooms and which
still lingers in such fixtures as
Gentlemen v. Players? Cer-
tainly, there is one traditional
match that could be more feli-
citously expressed—Gentlemen
of England v. The Australians.


Australian Industries Fair
SO fast is secondary industry develop-
ing in this country that the claim
that the Australian Industries Fair,
opened in Melbourne by the
Governor of Victoria, Sir Dallas Brooks,
on March 7 and to run to March 29, is
the greatest exhibition of Australian
manufacturers ever seen can be accepted
without reserve.
Further considerable advances have
been made in Australian industry since
the last fair in 1955, which was highly
successful. Australian manufactured
exports have, since then, shown a
big expansion, and the Chamber of
Manufactures in Victoria is courageously
tackling this even bigger venture because
of definite overseas interest in what is
developing in Australia.
What is happening is quite clear; the
economy of the nation is changing, if
not overnight, then with a remarkable
rapidity. Its outstanding development in
the 19 years since the outbreak of the
Second World War has been the
expansion of manufacturing industry.
It is absorbing into employment not
only the rapidly increasing working-
population that has resulted from natural
increase and particularly the large-scale
migration programmes, but also the
residue from decreasing employment in
the primary industries.
Since 1939 the number of persons
employed in manufacturing has increased
from fewer than 700,000 to more than
1,100,000, a rise of about 55 per cent.,
while rural employment actually fell
nearly 20 per cent. The fall in employ-
ment on the land and in the mines is,
of course, partly due to more mechanical
working and scientific advances.
Rising manufacturing activity and
higher employment is the significant sign
of the future trend, but Australians
probably still do not realise fully that
our population-building is dependent
more on manufacturing, activity than
any other single factor in the economy,
and exhibitions such as the Australian
Industries Fair help to educate public
opinion.
Five-sixths From Our Factories
A BOUT five-sixths of all the manufac-
tured goods sold on the Australian
market (somewhat less than £4OOO-
- a year) are now locally
produced, and these include almost all
the products modem man requires—
even diesel-electric locos, and a mass-
produced car which has swept the
market.
Each year an important new Aus-
tralian product appears, but the well-
established chemical and engineering
industries have made the most spec-
tacular advances ; their output is now
four and five times, respectively, greater
than before World War II began.
The basic industries —coal, ingot-steel,
cement and bricks, and gas and electricity
—have also more than kept pace with the
changed Australia where now twice as
many citizens work in factories as in
fishing, farming, mining and all other
rural industries.
The growth in industry has been con-
tributed to by the New Australians to
an extent that cannot be gauged. The
unskilled migrants have frequently gone
to unpopular jobs and disliked industries,
while the professionals, managers, crafts-
men and skilled tradesmen have brought
new ideas and old skills and solved, in
fact, some production problems.
The Chamber of Manufactures, which
is firmly established and has high prestige
in Victoria, a State which has, for the
last 100 years, been increasingly more
dependent on manufactures than the
other States, has timed the fair very
nicely indeed.
Some firm-members of the chamber
believe they are accepting a challenge
thrown down by overseas competitors
who are planning vigorous campaigns on
the local markets in 1958 and 1959.
Fair and Festival
r I~'HE fair is being held concurrently with
the Melbourne Moomba Festival,
immediately following the visit of the
Queen Mother, and the exterior decora-
tions at the Exhibition were specially
designed and erected in time to permit
their use for the Royal visit. The interior
decorations, for the State reception, will
remain, an exchange of courtesies between
the chamber and the State Government.
The exterior decorations and illumina-
tions, which are original and colorful,
are comparable with any displayed at
the world’s leading trade-fairs, accord-
ing to A. N. Curphey, general-manager
of the chamber, and an array of interest-
ing exhibits will be on show before the
doors of the building are entered.
These include a new mobile post-office
at which letters can be posted bearing
special postmarks of value to philatelists ;
a i full-scale modern house, well equipped
with latest and most up-to-date fittings ;
powerful earth - moving equipment;
irrigation sprays for farmer, orchardist
and home gardener ; a children’s play-
ground ; a special exhibit by the Forests
Products Division of the C.5.1.R.0., of
special interest to the building industry ;
giant semi-trailers, trucks, and special
loading and unloading equipment; new
types of building stuctural sections and
fencing.
Leading Service bands will play in the
afternoons and nights, and a swimming-
pool, designed for private use, will be
used by servicemen, wearing, of course,
the latest Australian swimsuits. These
attractions are in a garden setting
specially fenced for the occasion, but
so great will be the crowds, the organisers
expect, that all entrances to the building
will be open.
The Stands
of the first stands inside the doors
is the Department of Trade’s, illus-
trating the important part it is playing in
the development of Australia’s overseas
trade ; the printing and packaging indus-
tries are next, then decorated glassware,
household appliances and television,
including products only recently released
on the market.
Three leading banks demonstrate the
vital role banking plays in both indus-
trial and private life. A wide variety of
stands housing springs, rubber uphol-
stery, domestic sewing-machines, minia-
ture pumps, steel building-partitions
and shoemaking machinery follow.
The Housewife
,'T'HE housewife's interest will be
attracted by demonstrations of a
completely new method of permanently
pleating woollen fabrics; dish-washing
machines, warming-stoves; the making
of fine lace, linen and linen handker-
chiefs ; unusual gas-appliances; toys,
nursery - furniture and a creche;
ornaments and articles of wood, plated
with copper ; a display of silverware and
aluminium ; mirrors of all sizes.
Men’s attention will be diverted to
shirts of all materials and styles; the
manufacture of life-saving drugs and
biological products; flexible drives in
engineering and means of repairing cast-
ings.
At the Rathdown Street entrance are
displays of the work of tradesmen in
the Navy and Army, facing a com-
prehensive exhibit of Australian-built
boats and pleasure-craft. Here is a
unique display of board-room furniture
specially made from beautiful Australian
timbers ; quite a comprehensive collection
of general furniture and Victorian
timbers.
Stands show fine woollen and worsted
’textiles and other woollen products,
various cooking demonstrations on the
latest gas and electrical appliances, and an
interesting display of flexible plastics,
including fashion raincoats. Many will
be entranced by the lovely examples of an
age-old craft staged by one of our New
THE FAIR
The Australian Industries Fair
opened in the Exhibition Build-
ings, Melbourne, on March 7 and
will continue until March 29.
Australian buyers are urged to
attend the fair, which is open to
the public daily from II a.m. to
10.30 p.m., but bona fide trade
buyers will be admitted at 9 a.m.
The fair represents the greatest
exhibition of Australian manu-
factures ever assembled in one
place.


A.P.M. RESEARCH FOR BETTER PAPER • No. 8 of a series.
m
m
i
■■ •
m
m
Papermaking and Science go hand in hand...
There’s more to making paper than meets
the eye even the “eye” of the impressive
electron microscope used by the research staff
of A.P.M. Australian Paper Manufacturers
Limited.
Today, A.P.M.’s research scientists have at
their command many valuable instruments and
machines, plus the resources of three labora-
tories, a workshop and technical library.
In these laboratories the researchers face
the fascinating, never-ending problems of im-
proving paper and paper-making techniques;
of developing the many wood by-products; of
testing the qualities and composition of various
pulps.
Ahead lies the possibility of making paper
from materials other than wood; of improving
wood species; of continued investigation of
Australian forestry problems.
A.P.M. research scientists have a proud
record of achievement, including such tangibly
results as their wartime development and pro-
duction of cellulose pulp for explosives, ana
dissolving pulp from eucalypt wood for usd
in rayon manufacture.
A.P.M.’s research programme means better
paper products for you and contributes greatly
to the economy and efficiency of A.P.M.’s
operations as Australia’s largest manufacturer
of wrapping paper and paperboard.*
*The term paperboard embraces cardboard,
fibreboard and other heavyweight papers.
Basically the same raw materials are used
for paperboard and paper.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman Street, South Melbourne
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale, Broadford in Victoria,
Botany, N.S.W.; Petrie, Queensland; and Bayswater, W.A.
See the A.P.M. Stand at the Australian Industries Fair,
Exhibition Buildings, Melbourne .


DARNED SOCK
LED TO INVENTION
In 1937, Lawrence Burton Scott
-—an oil engineer in Texas had a
burst of inspiration which paved
the way to one of engineering’s
greatest advances.
In the feverish search for the
black gold, oil drilling machinery
was operating night and day. Of
all mechanical breakdowns, a
fractured or cracked casting was
the most feared. It meant many
days loss of drilling time, often
weeks before a new cylinder _
head, crankcase, or other cast-
ing could be replaced. There
was no known method of success-
fully repairing cast iron. Weld-
ing caused heat distortion and
merely postponed the inevitable
replacement. Scott, like many
other engineers, had spent many
years research on the problem.
He mentally listed every known
method of repairing anything,
and when this list included the
method of darning a sock, the
idea was born. Why not stitch
a cracked casting —cross stitches
to prevent any widening of ihe
crack, and further stitching along
the crack?
Experiment proved the theory
practical, but it was many
months before Scott found the
perfect “wool” with which to
stitch the fractured casting. It
was Nickel Alloy! Scott designed
special nickel alloy inserts, which
he inserted in drilled depres-
sions at intervals across the line
of fracture. Between these cross
“stitches” Scott then drilled and
tapped a series of holes along
the crack itself. Into these were
screwed nickel alloy studs or
dowels.
The next step was to spread
the nickel alloy “stitches.” this
was done by pneumatic hammer-
ing which was sustained until
the nickel alloy had expanded
into every extremity of the crack
and actually “married” the
parent metal.
Scott patented the new casting
repair method under the name of
“Metalock.” American engineer-
ing circles acclaimed “Metalock”
the engineering “find” of the
century, but it was the Second
World War that; really placed
Metalock on the map.
Allied ships, to dodge the
lurking submarines, raced across
the Atlantic at speeds far in
excess of normal cruising speed.
As a result, cracked cylinder
heads, blocks, and other metal
castings became commonplace.
The United States Navy adopted
the Metalock method as standard
repair, mere h ant shipping
followed suit, and the Metalock
company in America played an
ever-increasing role in maintain-
ing a swift turn-around of Allied
shipping. After the war a stream
of engineers descended on the
U.S.A. to acquire the Metalock
rights for their particular
countries. England, Canada, and
the Continent soon had their
Metalock factories.
The Marine, industrial, and
automotive industries discovered
that to call in the Metalock
engineers as soon as a machinery
casting cracked cut their main-
tenance and production costs
down to a small fraction of what
they had been.
There are now individually
owned and operated Metalock
companies in no less than 32
countries of the world, all
licensed and equipped to use the
Metalock method of cold repair
to castings. Metalock of Aus-
tralia Pty. Ltd. commenced
operations in Australia five years
ago and now has fully equipped
factories in Brisbane, Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth.
Many ships in our ports, many
cars and trucks on our roads,
many of our industrial, mining
and agricultural machines arc
operating efficiently today with
iron castings repaired by Aus-
tralia’s share of an invention
that was born from the simple
principle of darning a sock —
Metalock of Australia Pty. Ltd.
162 Williams Road,
Prabran, VIC.
74 Breakfast Creek Road,
Newstead, Bris. Q’PAND.
527 Mas-ill Road,
Woedforde, S .A.
56 Clement Avenue,
Bankstown, Sydney, N.S.W.
339 Stirling Street,
Perth, W.A.
Australians wrought - iron
work.
Steel and aluminium
windows and a collection of
Tasmanian timbers and modern
furniture ends in a feature dis-
play of the prize-winning home
designed by Tasmanian
architects.
Many and Varied
AT the Rathdown Street end
are displays of the mysteries
of Overseas Telecommunica-
tions ; modern office equip-
ment ; Australia’s famous over-
seas airline ; a special tablet-
making machine ; plastics of all
kinds; spray-painting; tele-
vision, radio, washing-machines,
and refrigerators; brush-
making machines, and a com-
bined exhibition of Australian
hardware and hand-tools, show-
ing advances since the war
years; builders’ modern
supplies ; water - heating
devices ; modern stoves ; and
equipment previously imported,
now made in Australia.
There are also here safety aids
—displays of equipment avail-
i> ble to help reduce accidents in
industry, and safety fire-equip-
ment ; electric signs ; the Salva-
tion Army’s cabinet-making
and joinery; a specially
designed bed for the comfort
of invalids; and Australian-
made linoleums.
In the centre of the main
hall is an exhibit showing
papermaking in all its forms ;
a comprehensive display of
everything for the photo-
grapher, both professional and
amateur, showing the tremend-
ous advances now being made ;
the glass industry in all its
branches ; a working-model of
a modern steel plant; a
magnificent display of tall Tas-
manian trees and the products
made from them; artists’
materials and colors; Aus-
tralian-built trucks and farm
implements, and the story of
Australia’s search for oil and
development of the petroleum
industry.
The Galleries
TN previous exhibitions the
galleries of the Exhibition
have rarely been used. In this
fair considerable attention has
been given to making them
especially interesting.
Among them are television
theatres at which favorite TV-
personalities will be present;
the art show, including a dis-
play of paintings entered in a
competition for the acquisition
prize awarded by the Chamber
of Manufactures; a film-
theatrette showing continuous
films, and a most rare display
prepared by the Military
Collectors’ Society tracing the
story of the Australian Service
uniforms, complete with quaint
early models.
More cooking - demonstra-
tions on electrical cooking-
equipment, around which are
grouped appropriate displays of
kitchen equipment, foodstuffs
and gadgets are also in the
galleries.
The Hall of Fashion
THEY also house the Hall of
Fashion in which is arranged
a representative collection of
Australian-made and designed
fabrics and garments, including
a selection of garments shown
in the fashion-parade.
The fashion-parade was so
popular at the first fair that
presentations daily will be given
at this one. The fashions
include day and evening wear,
furs, jewellery, swimsuits, new-
style colored stockings and
footwear.
Otbfer gallery attractions are
a marionette theatre presenting
14 performances each day ; the
builders’ court, of interest to
everybody in the trade or who
is contemplating building; a
restful lounge prepared by the
railway commissioners, and a
colorful aquarium of exotic fish.
The Olympic Stadium is a
most important addition since
the last fair. Erected specially
for the 1956 Olympic Games,
this hall houses a vast and com-
prehensive selection of Aus-
tralian-made machine tools and
machinery, engines, ventilating
equipment, and power tools,
of interest not only to the
industrialist but to the hobby-
ist, too.
Working exhibits feature
machines operating to a minute
degree of precision ; and plastic
production-lines from the initial
process to the finished article,
which can be bought.
In this section also is a full-
size boiler in operation, and a
bolt-making machine that is an
eye-opener for the layman. The
Stadium show is, in fact, a
demonstration of the high
skills of the national engineer-
ing industry.
Maturity of Industry
TAKEN collectively, the fair
should impress Australians
with the maturity of their
country’s secondary industry,
from basic iron and steel to jet-
aircraft engines and electric
components. For some years
the quality of our machine-
tool production has been equal
to overseas standards, and


NOTHING EQUALS
Warmra/s Amazing Efficiency
warmray
TRIPLE-PURPOSE, SLOW-COMBUSTION,
AIR-CONDITIONING HOME HEATER
Q
Model No. 3
Super De luxe
•fa Large Capacity
«•* Over 8,000
cu. ft.
Special large
firebox for long
burning without
attention.
-X- Extra large
hotplate for
cooking.
Installs in Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray"
ACTUALLY COSTS NOTHING
Model No. 2A
4r Heats 6y e r 5,000
" cu. ft.
■Jfr Modern artistic
cream porcelain
enamel on solid cast
iron.
•fc No dirty fireplaces
to clean.
Pull view of blazing
Are through open
or closed front.
JL- Lights in seconds
warms entire room
in minutes.
No smoke or dust to
soil furnishings.
★ Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
Vourappreciato^™™);'
Sxcdttuhas ">ade *A«*ah*
r^uXtedWHIHEATTR
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL—REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
WARMRAY
HEATING TUBES
The secret of Warmray’s Amazing: Efficiency Is
the Patented Heating Tnbes (Illustrated above),
which are built Into the firebox. The air in the
room passes through these tubes continuously,
thus maintaining an even warmth in every part
of the room.
JL. BURNS ALL SOLID FUELS
WOOD IS CLEANEST.
Visit the WAKMRAY exhibit
STAND 22
ground level, Exhibition Building,
2nd Australian Industries Fair,
March 7th 29th
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors:
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney. BL 3217.
Telegrams: “Warmray” Sydney.
some types of our food-
processing machinery are now
exported.
The expansion in the railway
rolling-stock industry has now
reached the point where two-
thirds of the country’s require-
ments, including locomotives,
are made locally and it is
possible to export certain types.
More than a dozen com-
panies produce alternators and
generators in the electrical
engineering field ; three manu-
facturers of power and dis-
tribution transformers o f
capacities exceeding 10,000
k.v.a. are operating ; most of
the country’s telecommunica-
tions equipment and almost the
entire domestic demand for
radio-receivers are met locally ;
-heavy earthmoving machinery
is being produced so rapidly it
is possible to export to Asia,
and, against stiff world competi-
tion, the radio-communications
industry has won large over-
seas contracts
Export Items
C'INCE 1938-39 the number of
export items has increased
from 580 to 1500, and the value
of exports of manufactured
goods has increased from £l6
million to about £lOO million.
Costs, naturally, have had their
effect on these figures ; but they
have also been a handicap in
winning markets. The markets
have been wooed and won
despite the Australian costs.
Overseas publicity has been
first-rate, due to the assistance
of the Government agencies
and missions. British trade-
organisations have been especi-
ally helpful in passing on
information about the fair, and
considerable publicity has been
given by trade-journals in
many lands, including the
U.S.A. and Canada.
Visitors, and possible buyers,
will be present from Pakistan,
Italy, South-east Asia, Hong
Kong and New Zealand.
Despite the assistance given in
publicity to the fair by the
trade-journals, there has been
little interest roused in Britain,
France or the U.S.
Africa and South Africa,
which showed surprisingly
keen interest in the 1955 fair,
have almost ignored it, and
although Indian buyers would
be here in force if it were
possible, they have been effec-
tively deterred from attending
by the currency-restrictions.
With the exception of
Germany, and Scandinavia to
the north, European countries
have not made arrangements to
send representatives. There
has been a heavy demand for
catalogues from Scandinavia
and Germany.
Overseas Response
PROTAGONISTS of the fair
are not disappointed at the
overseas response. It is a
tradition for developing coun-
tries to look to the European
trade-fairs for their goods, and
the Australians expect it will
be another six or 10 years at
least before they come to
Melbourne in considerable
numbers.
Among other publicity, the
sponsors of the fair have put
out 30,000 folders. They have
gone to businessmen, travellers
and investors throughout the
world, and eventually a satis-
factory number, it is believed,
will come to Australia to see
our achievements and potential.
The folders have been carefully
placed ; it is hardly likely that
the private citizen of an over-
seas country would be in-
terested in an Australian trade-
fair.
One of the keenest supporters
of the fair is a woman, Mrs.
Terry Burrell, wife of Rear-
Admiral H. M. Burrell, for the
reason that she believes it will
advertise Australia commer-
cially. With Mrs. L. B. Stock-
dale, the widow of the founder
of L. B. Stockdale and Co.,
machine-tool and spray experts,
who took over as managing-
director when her husband died,
she is one of the few executive
women exhibiting.
Mrs. Burrell's father was a
mica-miner in the Northern
Territory when she was a child,
and she is founder and govern-
ing-director of a substantial
mica company with engineer-
ing and timber-bending firms as
subsidiaries, and an English
branch. She is a mica expert,
travels abroad frequently, can
act as overseer in her factory
if necessary and sells mica
largely to the State Electricity
Commission for. household
appliances, commutators,
dynamos and electric motors.
Mrs. Burrell, who advocates
an annual fair, says many firms
in Britain rely on the British
Industries Fair to fill their
order-books. Naturally the
prime objective of the Aus-
tralian fair is to maintain the
home trade, but the develop-
ment of an export trade is also
a major objective.
Travellers the chamber has
sent abroad have no doubt that,
with adequate promotions, the
export - trade drive can be
helped by trade-fairs, particu-
larly in the logical markets, the
countries surrounding Australia
in the Pacific.
(Continued on page 57)


Mr. Cahill Discovers His Duty
MR. CAHILL’S housing confer-
ence, called with the avowed
object of “mustering and engag-
ing all forces in a co-ordinated
effort so that a maximum output of new
homes may be reached in the shortest
possible time,” duly met last week. The
mustering and engaging are still to come,
but from Mr. Cahill’s point of view the
conference was an unqualified success in
that it proved to his satisfaction that “the
basic problem in housing is still more
finance.”
The conference decided that the
building-target in N. S. Wales should be
increased to a minimum of 30,000 homes
a year. The vice-president of the Master
Builders’ Association said the industry
could handle up to 32,000 homes without
causing a blackmarket in materials, and
the president of the Building Industry
Congress said he felt that 30,000 was a
practicable figure which would not
prejudice price-stability—his organisation
thought such a target would require “an
extra £l5 million to the funds available
for housing last year.”
On the basis of the peak-year 1954-55
there is no reason to doubt that the
N.S.W. building industry is capable of
erecting 30,000 homes a year; in that
year it built (including flats) 29,583, and
the building-rate seems to have improved
since then. What is not so certain is
whether it can build them at a price
within the reach of those who need
them.
Most of the delegates at the conference
had a direct interest in seeing an increas-
ing number of homes built; their concern
for seeing the cost of housing reduced
was neither so vital nor so apparent. The
vice-president of the Master Builders’
Association did say that the cost of homes
was too high, and he claimed that one
of the biggest costs was rail-freight and
royalties on local timber ; he suggested
that the Cahill Government should show
its sincerity by cutting these two items—
a very sensible suggestion, but one which
Mr. Cahill has refused to act on in the
past.
The only other suggestion for cutting
costs was the ever-popular one of cutting
interest-rates. This brought from the
representative of the Bank of New South
Wales the comment that if the Govern-
ment decided to reduce the interest-rate
on housing-loans it would have to grant
the lenders a subsidy to compensate for
any concessions.
The Old Fallacy
TN general the conference seems to have
served Mr. Cahill’s purpose of enabling
him to say, with the apparent backing of
the industry, what he has been saying for
years—that Federal financial policy is
responsible for the continued housing-
shortage in N.S.W. As has been
pointed out here before, the fallacy of
this is shown by a comparison between
the building records for N.S.W. and
other States. The impact of Federal
policy must be uniform in all States, so,
whatever its influence may be on Aus-
tralian homebuilding as a whole, other
reasons must be sought for differences
from State to State.
Still Lagging
r T'HE conference was called to deal with
housing in N.S.W., but it seems
strange that none of the delegates asked
the Premier why his State, the most highly
industrialised in the Commonwealth,
should be lagging behind the others in
housing its people. It isn’t that there was
no evidence available; the Common-
wealth Statistician’s figures tell the story
plainly. In proportion to population the
Cahill State, quarter after quarter and
year after year, consistently builds fewer
homes than its neighbors. There is not
much difference between the population
of N.S.W. and the combined populations
of Victoria and South Australia (at June
30 last year 3,622,906 against 3,546,621),
yet in every year since 1947 the two have
outbuilt N.S.W. by several thousand
homes; over the whole period by 34,718,
more than a year’s building at the
proposed target-rate.
Twelve months ago the Department of
National Development issued a survey of
Australian housing. According to this
the housing shortage in 1947 was 250,000
dwellings and was reduced to 158,000 by
1954 and 115,350 by June 30, 1956. The
survey included tables showing the
number of dwellings available for every
1000 families in 1947 and 1956. Details
were:
June 30, 1947. June 30, 1956.
N.S.W. .... 868 940
Vic 879 955
S.A 868 968
Q’ld. .. .. .. 898 973
W.A 885 978
Tas. .. .. .. 894 976
Australia .. .. 877 955
N.S.W. was thus nine points behind
the Commonwealth average in 1947 and
15 points behind it in 1956, and this
despite the fact that in proportion to
population it had had to house fewer
migrants than most other States. Its
position deteriorated still further during
the year ended June 30, 1957, and there
is no reason to suppose it has improved
since.
At the conference Lord Mayor Jensen
advocated high-density housing nearer
the city rather than “the sprawling type
of development further out.” This implies
flats, and Alderman Jensen, although a
good Labor man, cannot have failed to
notice that even in this respect his own
State is lagging behind.
In each of the past three years N.S.W.
built far fewer flats than Victoria,
although that State has only two-thirds
its population. In the early post-war
years N.S.W. led in flat-building, thanks
to big Housing Commission projects at
North Sydney and elsewhere. But flat-
building by private enterprise, like all
rental-building in N.S.W., gets little or
no encouragement. A vote-loaded Land-
lord and Tenant Act and, more recently,
an inequitable land-tax which dis-
criminates against the owners of tenanted
property, have made rental building a
most unattractive investment.
It is unfortunate that organised Labor
approaches such as has just
been held with no ideas above propa-
ganda. Thus J. D. Kenny, M.L.C., sub-
mitted on behalf of the Sydney Labor
Council proposals which he dignified with
the name of “plan.” Point One was a
suggestion for a £ 100-million loan for
housing, but no suggestion as to how it
was to be raised. His second point was
that the central bank should release from
the special accounts of the trading-banks
another £lOO million, to be used for
private home-building.
The most charitable interpretation that
can be put on this is that Kenny is under
the impression that no homes are being
built at all at present and that the con-
ference had to tackle the job from
scratch. His proposed £2OO million almost
equals the entire cost (£209,751,000) of
the 68,437 homes built in Australia in
1956-57. Extravagant suggestions like
these do the trade-union movement and
homeseekers great disservice, implying as
they do that there are vast sums of idle
money lying around merely waiting to
be “raised” or “released.”
Point Three of the Kenny “plan” was
Labor’s old vote-catcher—a three-per-
cent. limit on loans for home-building.
N.Z. Prime Minister Nash made a
similar promise on the election-platform
and is now up against the difficulty of
trying to make good his promise.
However, Kenny’s preposterous contri-
bution to the conference served Mr.
Cahill’s purpose by giving him a figure he
can divide by 10 or 20. When all the
talking was over he declared: “It will
be my duty to inform the Federal Gov-
ernment that more finance from loan-
funds and a greater release of credit are
necessary in the opinion of the confer-
ence to provide more homes.” Informing
the Federal Government that more
finance is needed is one duty Mr. Cahill
has never been reluctant to perform.


SPOTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
Shock of autumn racing in
Melbourne was Sailor’s Guide's
defeat in last Saturday’s
Queen’s Plate. Betting on the
event, with “Sailor” at 11 to 2
on, suggested that the race
would be little more than an
exercise-gallop for the Bendigo
horse. Until the field straight-
ened up Sailor’s Guide seemed
to be travelling comfortably,
but in the run home he could
not match Monte Carlo’s
finishing effort, and, right on
the line, Prince Delville cut him
out of second money. It looked
as if Sailor Guide’s hard-Svon
victory over Prince Darius and
Tulloch in the Queen Elizabeth
Stakes had taken the edge off
him.
His Plate win was the best
run Victorian racegoers had
seen from Monte Carlo since
the spring of 1956, when the
son of Lucky Bag was the
dual Derby winner. Monte
Carlo will now be set for the
Sydney Cup, in which he has
been allotted 9.4. It is a good
horse’s weight, but on his Plate
run Monte Carlo could carry it
successfully.
Prince Delville’s run in the
Queen’s Plate was first-class,
and he looks the horse to beat
in the rich (£5150) Alister
Clark Stakes at Moonee Valley
next Saturday. The Stakes is a
10-furlongs event, same distance
as the Queen’s Plate, and
against the moderate opposition
he is likely to meet Prince Del-
ville should have an outstand-
ing chance.
This year’s V.R.C. St. Leger
became a farce when Prince
Darius had to be withdrawn an
hour or so before the race
because of a stomach ailment.
The field then comprised
Tulloch and the two moderate
Victorian colts Tuki and Wool-
man. Tulloch was never at his
top to win the race by 12
lengths from Tuki, with Wool-
man distanced. Time for the
event was 3.2, well outside the
race-record of 2.56|.
Both Tommy Smith, trainer,
and jockey George Moore
declared after the Leger that
Tulloch was close to his best.
It might be wiser to wait until
Tulloch meets stiffer opposi-
tion than he beat last Satur-
day before accepting that
view. The colt’s next run is
likely to be in the Rawson
Stakes at Rosehill next Satur-
day-week. His form in that
race may decide whether he
will tackle the Sydney Cup, in
which he has 9.7, an enormous
burden for a three-year-old.
Tulloch has never been
unplaced in his 24 races. He
has won 16 times and earned
£55,347 10s. —easily a record
for a three-year-old.
It’s to be hoped Prince
Darius will suffer no after-
affects from his ailment. He
“Just see how he is ruining your looks!”
has developed into a magnifi-
cent colt, and on his autumn
form in Melbourne —a win in
the St. George Stakes, and a
most unlucky second in the
Queen Elizabeth Stakes —is
probably the best horse racing
in Australia.
While there is no quesrion
that Misting is Australia’s best
two-year-old, Nilento is entitled
to be rated second to the grey
colt. The Nilo gelding‘made
a one-act affair of the Ascot
Vale Stakes at Flemington last
Saturday. Officially Nilento
scored by 2\ lengths, but the
true measure of the win was
the ease with which the gelding
did the job. Jockey Ken Smith
sat as quietly as a dowager in
church while his mount raced
away from the moderate
opposition. From his last five
starts Nilento has won four
times, and in the other race
finished second to Misting.
j* • • •
The gelding will now go to
Sydney to race in the Golden
Slipper Stakes and the A.J.C.
Sires Produce Stakes. He may
find Misting—whose owners
have paid the late fee of £lOOO
—too good in the Golden
Slipper Stakes, but he should
certainly win the Sires Pro-
duce. Nilento’s stake-earnings
are now £4500, and he has
justified the high price of
2100gns. which his owners,
Mr. and Mrs. R. A. Cappey,
paid for him at the Sydney
yearling-sales.
A lightly-raced filly who will
almost certainly develop into
a galloper above the ordinary
is Bruella, winner of the
Bloodhorse Breeders’ Plate at
Flemington. A daughter of
the French sire Damtar, out
of Bruegilla, Bruella was hav-
ing only her third race-start.
Although she had finished in
the minor money at her first
two starts she was a 20-to-l
chance in Saturday’s race. It
will be a long time before she
is at such odds again. Against
a field of good-class fillies,
Bruella was beaten for speed
early in the race, but she came
home strongly to win running
away. There is good staying
blood on her dam’s side —
Shadow King figures in her
maternal lines and she
appeals strongly as a likely
classic winner next spring.
Owner D. Hutchison, a com-
mittee-man on the Victorian
Racehorse Owners’ Associa-
tion, bought Bruella for only
300gns. at the Sydney yearling-
sales.
Former N. S. Wales
Premier A. Mair and his wife
have a good chance of win-
ning this year’s Grand
National Hurdle with their
aged gelding, Arabil. Arabil
showed the stamina required
of a National winner when
he plugged away to win the
2|-miles Autumn Hurdle at
Flemington. Two years ago
Arabil was considered the
best hurdler in Melbourne,
but his form fell away, and
last Saturday’s win was his
first since August, 1956.
Trainer Max Bradfield has bis
heart set on a National win,
and Arabil’s programme will
be planned with that ambition
in mind.
There is no doubt that the
aged entire son of Copper
Plate, Copper Year, is one of
the best horses to come from
South Australia in recent
years. Making light of his
9.11, Copper Year led prac-
tically throughout to win th;e
five-furlongs Winslow Handi-
cap at Flemington with a lot
in reserve. His form was a
big improvement on his
previous race, a poor 14th in
the Newmarket. But in that
race he struck himself. Trainer
Wally Boyle had a lace boot
made in Sydney during the
week, and with that aid
Copper Year galloped very
freely. Saturday’s success was
his 18th, and he has won
£15,636 10s. stake-money.
Despite his age, he is as good
as ever, and should add to his
winnings during the Adelaide
Cup meeting in May.
Top price paid over the two
days of Wright, Stephenson
and Co.’s yearling-sales in
Melbourne last week was the
3100gns. bid by trainer Charlie
Waymouth for a filly by
Landau, out of former good
galloper, Alaminta. A striking
chestnut with flaxen forelock,
mane and tail, the filly
attracted tremendous interest.
Jt was the highest price paid
in Melbourne for a yearling
filly since Real Black brought
4100gns. in 1949. Landau
also sired the second-highest
yearling of the sales, a brown
colt out of Yarmilla, for


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
KUV mom MFE!
-tMtfu
SANDERS#
filei
Correspondence, invoices,
statements, etc., filed in ~ the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference at
the snd of each month —Of
...
ivT;.^
Prices »d /ur*
thrr Information
Kp«l) application
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Af.au—
HEIMCINI . . K.raau Bra. ttj. 14*
ADELAIDE . . V.rf.n Pile. 14*
PERTH . . DMk.t B«h CL lAhO
whom drive-in theatre pro-
prietor Jack Pascoe gave
2750gns. Over the two days
of the sale 186 lots were sold
for a total of 94,775gn5., an
average of 509gns.
* * *
After next Saturday, when
the A.J.C. will conduct a
meeting at Randwick for
which a big entry has been
received, most of the moderate
gallopers will be off the scene
temporarily as Sydney’s
autumn round will begin with
the Rosehill fixture on Satur-
day, March 22. At that meet-
ing main interest will centre
in the £lO,OOO Golden Slipper
Stakes for two-year-olds,
richest juvenile event in Aus-
tralia. The programme also
includes the £l5OO weight-for-
age Rawson Stakes, the £2OOO
Quality Handicap for the best
sprinters, and the £3300 Gold
Cup for stayers,
Melbourne - owned, -trained
and -ridden five-year-old
Merger, winner at six of his
last eight starts (latest the
Canterbury Pa'rk Flying
Handicap), is handicapped on
7.5 in the A.J.C. Doncaster
Handicap and could be a light-
weight show. Before he won
last Saturday he had solid
support for the Randwick
mile, no doubt in anticipation
of that suburban success. In
races to date Merger has shone
solely as a sprinter, and he has
to be taken on trust as a miler.
The well-proportioned gekfng
has staying blood in his
pedigree he’s by Nebris
(imp.), from Mary Magnus,
by St. Magnus (imp.), from
Message, by Marconigram
(imp.), from Mascot, by
Martian. Mascot won the
Auckland Cup two miles, beat-
ing a noted performer,
Sasanof. Merger has firmed
sharply for the Doncaster.
Most striking success at
Canterbury Park was Bold
Pilot’s, in the Two-year-old
Handicap. On form the geld-
ing stood out, and he was
always favorite. Eight horses
were in front of him at the
half-mile, and he was many
lengths from the leader. Then
jockey Schumacher pulled
him out from the rails, and
the issue was quickly settled
in the final furlong. Bold
Pilot has now started four
times, for three wins and a
distant third to Cerasus at
Rosehill. He carried 9.3 at
latest run, but drops to 8.7 in
the rich Golden Slipper Stakes
at Rosehill.
• • • *
Connections of Cerasus
paid a £lOOO late-entry fee for
the speedster to compete in
the Golden Slipper. Bold
Pilot’s latest win makes
Cerasus appear a top sprinter.
Tory Victory was the form
horse for the Canterbury Park
mid-week Maiden Handicap,
run at furlongs, after his
promising third at Warwick
Farm four days earlier. The
gelding is raced by M. Cusick
and R. Gay lor, and is a three-
year-old by Genetout (Fr.)
from Fervent by Equator (imp.)
from Haut Cceur by High Art
(imp.). He cost lOOOgns. as a
yearling and is a member of the
highly successful T. J. Smith
team. Tory Victory is a brother
to Sky Hawk and to Triclinium.
• • • •
Alluring, dam of Just Doreen,
easy winner of the Kembla
Grange first Two - year - old
Maiden, won several races at
former meetings of the Sydney
Associated Clubs. She is by
Salmagundi (imp.), from All
Clear, by Beau Soult. Just
Doreen, a Nilo (imp.) filly, is
a half-sister to Seasonal, a
winner at Randwick and at
Warwick Farm. She cost
550gns. as a yearling and was
bred by Lionel Israel, of
Segenhoe stud, Scone. Family
lines include Laddie Blue
(A.J.C. Metropolitan).
Paroo Nymph didn’t have
much to spare when winning
the second Kembla Two-year-
old Maiden. At 300gns. she
seemed a cheap buy, because
she cost about a seventh of
that paid for her half-brother
Dubbo, one of Sydney’s top
sprinters. No doubt J. O. Scott
and J. L. Leige, who race Paroo
Nymph, are hoping for a
second Dubbo. The filly is by
Charleval (Fr.), from Sunshine
Express, by White Ensign
(imp.), from Gailmond, by
Veilmond. Another close
relative, Night Mail, has yet
to make a name for himself. He
has won in moderate company.
Sunshine Express was a brilliant
two-year-old. Her wins included
the A.J.C. December Stakes, in
which she covered the five
furlongs in 59fsec.
Randwick trainer M.
McCarten won the Canterbury
Cup with Waterford. The
chestnut colt is owned by M.
Grogan, and was bought for
450gns. at the Melbourne
yearling-sales.
The colt is by Great Western
(imp.), from Diavonne by
Dhoti (imp.), and is closely
related to Mac Rob, a top
Melbourne performer o f
earlier years, and to Valcurl,
a dual winner of the Moonee
Valley Cup as well as a
winner of the King’s Cup
(Adelaide). Wright, Stephen-
son’s catalogue included only
two of the progeny of Great
Western, whose oldest stock
are now yearlings. He won
the V.R.C. Craiglee Stakes
(w.f.a.) and was placed at
Randwick in races under the
scale. He is by Precipitation
(a winner of the Ascot Gold
Cup), from Gold Apple, by
Winalot.
Doomben winners at latest
fixture included Fire Dust, who
won the 1955 A.J.C. Doncaster
Handicap and was third in last
year’s race to Slogan 11. Fire
is getting on, but
apparently still has a brisk
gallop. He won the Flying
Handicap, seven furlongs less
81yds., beating Rim Huff and
Dasnique. Winner of the third
Two-year-old Handicap,
Chasseur, is one of the progeny
of One Up (imp.), who has had
several Brisbane winners.
Chasseur’s dam, Diagonal,
wasn’t raced. She is a Young
Idea mare from Tyrol by
Lord Warden (imp.). Chasseur
is related to a number of
winners, including Great World
(A.J.C. Jubilee Cup). Family-
lines also include Horner
(A.J.C. Derby dead-heat).
When Llanisfair was in Aus-
tralia last year he shaped like
a winner on a number of
occasions, but didn’t win for
Randwick trainer T. J. Smith.
Now he's struck a - patch of
winning form in New Zealand,
and has won two quick races,
latest being the £5OOO Autumn
Handicap (2 miles) at Trent-
ham.
“Zorok”: I see that Yorick,
son of 1950 Melbourne Cup
winner Comic Court, which
fetched a South Australian
record-price of 2300gns. at the
1954 Adelaide yearling-sales,
went the other day lor 20gns. —
sold for hack-work. Alas, poor
Yorick!
Trotting
A crowd of 17,000-odd
attended Harold Park Trots on
Friday night and saw the
running of the first two heats
of the New South Wales Sires’
Produce Stakes of £3OOO, the
final of which will be run on
Saturday night next. In the
first heat the much-fancied
10-to-9-on favorhe Illawarra
Ayr, after a slow getaway,
could only manage to fill the
fourth position. Smoko (at
12 to 1) beat Dusty Miller by
a long neck, with Marinetto
three-quarters of a length
further away third. Nuffield
(4 to 1) won the second heat
by three-quarters of a length
from Blue Goose, with Corre-
late a neck away third
Champion New Zealand colt
Tobacco Road started favorite
and finished a close fifth. The
first five horses in both heats
qualify for the final.
Nine -to - four -on favorite
King Ranji, after a slow start,
beat Victory Dale by a short


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
neck in the Harold Park Handi-
cap. Onward, who led the field
to the “bell” lap, struggled on
into third place.
• • • •
Sydney pacers Fettle and
Sibelia qualified for the final
of the Inter-Dominion Pacing
Championship at Wayville next
Saturday night, by sterling per-
formances in the third and final
series of heats on Saturday
last. Bookmakers have now
made Sibelia a clear-cut favorite
for the final, with Fettle
second favorite, and Radiant
Venture, Taminga, False Step,
First Division, Dillon Tower,
Beloro, Kiwi Dillon, Gentry,
Free Hall and Para Step follow-
ing in that order.
And Sundry Sports
In the third of their four
games in France, the Australian
Rugby Union Wallabies had a
hard tussle beating South-
west France 17r14, at Pau. The
fourth game was the inter-
national against France, in
Paris, won easily by the French
19-0, after a scoreless first half.
The Wallabies, weakened by
injuries, could not field their
best team. This defeat means
they have lost all five inter-
nationals on the tour.
“Old Pivot”: The V.F.L.
may use bladderless footballs
this year. The balls, made on
the tubeless-tyre principle, are
already used by several inter-
state Rugby and Soccer
associations. If the change is
adopted it will be the first in
the history of the league.
Some years ago white foot-
balls, claimed to be water-
repellent as well as easier to
identify in the mud and slush
of Melbourne winters, were
tried, but were not persisted
with.
• • • •
Haydn Buntoti, 21-year-old
son of the legendary triple
Brownlow and triple Sandover
Medallist of the same name,
was the centre of a clearance
storm in Adelaide at the
beginning of the 1957 season
when North Adelaide three
times refused to clear him to
Norwood. He had been
appointed playing - coach of
Norwood. As a result Bunton
spent 1957 on the sidelines.
Now there has been a deal
between Norwood and North,
and Bunton this year will be
able to play as well as coach.
There was a straight exchange
about the deal —North Adelaide
is this year to be coached by
22-year-old former Norwood
centreman Peter Koerner.
Two women’s athletic
records:
After Betty Cuthbert had twice
equalled the world-record for
100yds. on Saturday March 1, it
was suggested here that she would
probably soon set new world-
figures for either that distance or
the 220yds. She did just that in
her next run, last Saturday, in the
220yds at the N.S.W. women’s
championships; she clocked
23.55ec., to take .lsec. off the
record jointly held by herself and
Maria Itkina, of Russia.
Marlene Mathews, just behind
her in the 100yds., also finished
just behind in the 220. It will be
recalled that in the 100-metres and
200-metres at the Melbourne
Olympics Marlene Mathews
finished third each time, behind
Betty Cuthbert, with the German
girl Christa Stubnick twice second.
Another women’s athletic world-
record was also broken last Satur-
day, this time in N.Z., when M.
Chamberlain ran the 440yds. in
56. lsec., breaking the time of
56.35ec. set by Victorian runner
Nancy Boyle in Sydney on Feb.
24, 1957.
* * *
*
Australia easily (by eight
wickets) defeated South
Africa in the fifth cricket Test
at Port Elizabeth, to win the
series 3-0, with two Tests
drawn. Bowling star for Aus-
tralia in the Test was David-
son (4-44 and 5-38), ably sup-
ported by Kline in the first
innings and Benaud in the
second, with Meckiff also
playing a very necessary part.
Best batting came from
Mackay (whose 77 not-out
took his Test average for the
series to 125 —he’s played a
good knock in each Test),
McDonald, Benaud and, in
the short second innings,
Grout, who opened in place of
the injured Burke. In South
Africa’s second innings
Benaud reached a couple of
bowling milestones, including
100 wickets and 1000 runs in
Tests —a particular milestone
reached by only five other
Australians. The two most
unsuccessful batsmen were
Craig and Harvey, captain and
vice-captain.
South Africa has a strong
enough team, with some very
good cricketers among ’em.
Heine and Adcock are a great
pair of fast-bowlers and Tay-
field is one of the world’s best
spin-bowlers. Australia’s win
of the series can be put down
to sheer merit, and it augurs
well for Australia’s showing in
the Tests against England next
season —though that does not
mean Australia has already
won them.
By making 365 not-out for
West Indies in the third Test
against Pakistan, left-hand all-
rounder Garfield Sobers
established a new record Test-
score. Previous-best was, of
course, Sir Leonard Hutton’s
364 in the fifth Test against
Australia in 1938. Sobers
made his runs in lOhrs. Bmin.,
as against S’ Len’s 13hrs.
20min., which had lasted for
a long time as the longest first-
class innings ever played. It
was broken as a record, too,
in this series between Pakistan
and West Indies —in the first
Test, Pakistan opener Hanif
Mohammed, in compiling 337,
stayed at the creases for 16hrs.
3min.
“Veryl”: I don’t wish to
detract from Sobers’s achieve-
ment, but the easy-paced
wickets in the West Indies do
tend to the making of mam-
moth scores, by individuals
and by teams. And one
seldom hears of a batting
collapso in Calypso cricket.
The Australia-v.-West Indies
series in 1955 was a very high-
scoring one; in the fourth
Test Australia made 668 and
followed up in the fifth Test
with its record Test tally,
8-758. All the same, even on
a lifeless pitch and against a
weak attack (as was the case
with Sobers), you’ve still got
to have a certain prowess with
the bat to make a lot of runs.
“Keima”: In the recent
Tom Allen memorial cricket-
match at Toowoomba (Q.) —
Allen was a former Queens-
land Shield-player Keith
Miller topscored with 101 in
just over an hour, with 11
sixes and five fours. It was a
picnic game, and runs came
in droves, from Lindwall,
Bratchford, Saunders of
N.S.W., and others with
Tom Allen’s 18-year-old son
Ross hitting the winning six
for his side off the second-
last ball. It’s hard to believe
the bowlers were “fair-
dinkum”; still, Miller’s form
in his rare picnic-game
appearances is always so good
that it often seems to me a
pity he decided to retire when
he did. He must have still
bad several years’ first-class
cricket ahead of him, with
therefore quite a lot of
cricketing enjoyment still in
store for spectators.
* * *
The Australian welter-
weight title (which some think
should still be George
Barnes’s, but which in less
than 18 months has been in
the possession of Barnes,
Darby Brown and Harry
Grogan) being declared vacant
cn Grogan’s inability to
defend it, the fight at Sydney
Stadium on March 3 between
welters Billy Todd and Billy
Stanley was billed as a title-
fight. Todd won, but very
narrowly, on points over 15
rounds. It was the pair’s third
meeting, Todd having won
twice on points and Stanley
once (on Jan. 13 this year) on
a k.o. in the 11th round. Todd
thus became the second new
Australian champion within
three days, middleweight
Clive Stewart (as reported in
B. 5/3/’5B) being the first.


HOLIDAY RESORTS
Torquay, Victoria,
Offers holiday bookings from
2nd February onwards.
g. r. McCartney,
Victorian Estate Agent.
Phone 366.
The Bulletin, March 12, 1958
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Handy Hints for
the Farm. —6679.
Words of the song “Waiata Poi.”
—6680.
Words of song containing the
line:
“It’s just a gin-mill in old Chicago.”
—6681.
Copy of The “Bulletin” Reciter. —
6682.
Information Sought
Can an Act passed by the British
House of Commons become law if
rejected by the House of Lords?
Yes. In the normal course, the
House of Lords either accepts a bill
f'om the Commons and returns it
unchanged; or amends it, and
returns it for consideration, the
Commons very often agreeing to the
suggested amendments. The House
of Lords cannot, however, require
the Commons to agree to amend-
ments, nor can it delay a bill
indefinitely. In respect to money
bills the Lords has no powers what-
ever, and, since the passing, under
ihe Attlee Labor Government, of the
Parliament Act, 1949, any other bill
which has been passed by the House ]
of Commons in two successive :
sessions may also be presented for :
Royal Assent without the consent of
the Lords, provided that a year has
elapsed between the date of the
second-reading of the bill in the
Commons and the date on which it
is finally passed in that House. As
tne 1956 edition of “Britain,” the
official handbook of the Central
Office of Information, says, “These
limitations to the powers of the
Lords are based on the fundamental
principle that the function of the
Upper House, which is a non-
representative assembly, is not to
thwart the will of the people, but
to use the combined experience and
wisdom of its members to
ensure that that will is
precisely and reasonably
interpreted.”
Why was the Gallipoli campaign
undertaken ?
The purpose of the land and naval
operations in the Dardanelles area
in early 1915 was to force the
straits in order to deal so effective
a blow against the Turks that
pressure on Russia might be relieved
and Bulgaria deterred from entering
the war with the Central Powers.
Flad the attack been completely
successful, Turkey would very
probably have been forced out of
the war, while the check to German
aspirations in that area may well
have considerably shortened the
war. Attack on the Dardanelles, too,
vvas the best defence of the British
position in Egypt; again, Allied
success in the area would probably
have brought Rumania in on the
Allied side.
In an article “Fantastic Beyond
Belief,” in B’. 1/8/’56, “Private
Sapper” (an original Anzac) quotes
Alan Moorehead’s summing-up in
his recent book, Gallipoli, that the
Gallipoli campaign was no blunder
or reckless gamble—“it was the most
imaginative conception of the war,
and its potentialities were almost
beyond reckoning.” Another quote
from Moorehead mentioned by
“Private Sapper”—“By the 1930’s a
large library [about Gallipoli] had
grown up, British, French, Turkish
and German, and although there was
general criticism of the tactics no
serious student now questioned the
wisdom of the Allies going to the
Dardanelles.”
* * * *
How can I prevent earwigs from
climbing my peach, plum and
apricot trees and making merry with
the fruit ?
Assemble lgal. kerosene, 4oz.
“ I won a verbal argument with the little Woman."
common soap, |gal. water. Shred
soap into the water, boil, and add
to the kerosene, agitating or stirring
thoroughly until an emulsion is
formed. Dilute the mixture with 8
parts water; allow to cool, keep
well agitated while spraying. Another
method is to mix loz. malathion,
Boz. sugar, lgal. water, splashing
the mixture on to the trees with a
brush every seven days, using 6
11. oz. per tree.
Fruit must be washed before
using and should be peeled. Ear-
wigs, being large, could probably
be trapped by tying sticky flypapers
round the tree-trunks. Ordinary
household sprays would be effective,
but if used heavily might damage
trees.
* * * *
Could I have a list of vitamins
and their functions?
(1) Vitamin-A: Necessary for
maintenance of correct growth,
vision, proper replacement of skin;
maintenance of tissue in the lungs,
tongue, pharynx, trachea and
salivary glands. Used to treat and
guard against recurrent colds and
other respiratofy-tract infections;
(2) vitamin-B 1: To prevent beri-beri,
maintain nerves, a healthy appetite,
to overcome fatigue, for treatment
of neuritis, to maintain healthy
muscles, to correct constipation;
(3) vitamin B 2: Assists in digestion
of starches, essential for correct
vision; controls soft-tissue growth,
recessary for healthy skin; (4)
vitamin-B6: Essential for absorption
of protein, for red-blood formation
and nerve- and muscle-fibre. Used
in treatment of acne and seborrhoeic
dermatitis; (5) pantothenic acid:
Useful in protein- and fat-digestion.
For disorders of the nervous-
system, gastro-intestinal tract and
respiratory-system; (6) nicotinic
acid: The anti-pellagra vitamin, for
nervous, gastro-intestinal and skin
disorders; (7) vitamin-Bl2: The red
vitamin. For anaemia, essential for
growth of red-blood cells. Is also
useful as a growth-factor; (8)
vitamin-C: The anti-scurvy vitamin.
Necessary for correct tissue-replace-
ment; for cartilage, growth of red-
blood cells, necessary for sound
teeth and strong bones; (9) vitamin-
D: Essential for formation of bone
and healthy teeth. Deficiencies of
this vitamin lead to rickets.
* * * *
Brief biography of Laurence
Housman ?
Laurence Housman, dramatist and
novelist, younger brother of poet
A. E. Housman, was born on July
18, 1865. After studying painting
at South Kensington he worked as
an illustrator, writing fairytales and
poems with his own illustrations.
His first book of verse, Green Arras,
came out in 1895; five years later
his An Englishwoman s Love
Letters created a minor sensation.
He started serious work as a
dramatist in 1905; his Little Plays
of St. Francis, written in 1922, com-
prised a large number of little
playlets, each dealing with one
episode in the Saint’s life. In 1937
a series of playlets on Queen
Victoria were published, under the
title Victoria Regina. Happy and
Glorious followed in 1945. Two
years previously he had written
Falestine Plays, and Cynthia, a verse
pastoral, appeared in 1947. Apart
from a batch of other plays Hous-
man published Select Poems (1909),
John of Jingalo (1912) and an auto-
biography, The Unexpected Years
(1936).
* * * *
Some information on the Scottish
Home Department ?
The Scottish Home Department
was set-up in 1939 to take over the
work undertaken previously by the
Secretary of State’s Office, the
Fishery Board and the Prisons
Department for Scotland. In the
field of law and order, the depart-
ment is concerned with the police,
piobation and remand home-
services, criminal justice, legal aid
and the services needed by the
courts; it is directly responsible
for the administration of prisons
and Borstal institutions. It is the
central ucpartment in Scotland for
the fire-service, civil defence and
the children’s service, and handles
legislation concerning shops,
theatres, cinemas and licensed
premises.
Other functions of the department
include general duties in connection
with the structure and finance of
local authorities such as valuation
and rating and the administration of
the Exchequer equalisation-grants;
and the oversight and protection of
inc Scottish inshore, deep-sea and
iresWvater fisheries. The depart-
ment is also closely concerned, in
co-operation with the Board ot
Trade and other United Kingdom
departments, with Scottish economic
development, including the work of
ihe JNortn of Scotland Hydro-
e.ectric Board and the rehabilitation
oi the Highlands generally.
* * * • .
Correct spelling of “mHlenium” —■
or “millennium” ?
This answer in sum also appeared
on the Service page (B. 22/4/’53).
; “Millennium” is the correct spelling,
' though the word is often misspelled
with one “n.” Derivation is from
trie Latin mille (a thousand) and
annus (a year). The words millenary,
miilenarist and millenarian (mean-
ing “of, or a believer in, the
millennium”) have only one “n,”
being derived from tnillenarium,
which in turn derives from
milleni (a thousand each). A similar
difference in derivation accounts for
the similar disparate spelling of
“centenary” and “centennial.”
Brief Answers
F.Mc.: The term entente cordiale
literally means “cordial understand-
ing,” and is applied to friendly
relations existing between Powers,
such as the friendship between Great
Britain and France... .T.J.L.: On
July 28, 1957, the Federal Govern-
ment authorised preparation of the
construction of a dam on the
upper Cotter River, a tributary of
the Murrumbidgee. The proposed
dam will form the basic storage for
the future water-supply of the
A.C.T. It’s to be built 12 miles
upstream from the existing Lower
Cotter Dam, and is estimated to
cost £1,400,000. Storage-capacity will
be 2,470,000,000 gallons... .G.M.:
Here are a few that might be use-
ful : adaluma, river; alumbah,
spring; amarina, rain; aroona, run-
ning water; awoonga, sheet of
water; barku, river; bilarong, place
of swamp-oaks; billeroy, running
creek; bingara, creek; bokara,
swamp; bunburra, beach; burrupa,
running water; c '-bara, sandy
creek; elinga, rain: ra, shore;


Rutii in ike
Fu/nt'C
i
The very numbering of the Christian years
tends to make us think of life in sections of time.
But in today’s world there is no place for “annual”
living, and I believe we will have to get our sights
longer and clearer on the rate of Australia’s progress
into the future.
We are in the most challenging period mankind
has known. Human achievements come on in
amazing sequence. And in backdrop to this—
pervading it, almost putting it in shadow —is the
struggle for men’s minds.
The bid for the winning of minds has gone on
since history began, and it will continue; and modem
discoveries released upon the world have brought
it into sharper tone and led to its quickening.
This is more than a rivalry of systems. It is
expressly the issue between Belief and Unbelief;
between recognition of the human spirit as the
motive-meaning in man’s existence, and the
philosophy which says that, whatever his
achievements, his creature ending is in ashes.
That is stating it at the intellectual plane. But
bringing it down to visible and tangible results—
and here is where the course of the struggle will
influence many millions whose minds are to be
won—we have to admit that the supreme test in
the world today is also one of efficiency.
For ourselves with a continent to our hands,
that means the mental and manual efficiency of
the nation as a whole, as well as of the individual;
efficiency in the raising of our stature in other
countries’ eyes, as well as in the making of an
internal prosperity.
The freedoms we have established, the
standards we enjoy, depend finally on our ability
to earn and keep them. And in that, the proving
effort will have to be geared not to our own ideas
of pace and intensity but to those that are being
made for us in the gathering speeds of the world.
<2X2*o^
gralunga, sandy place; kalbnru,
forest country D.J.P.: The
actinometer, an instrument measur-
ing the amount of heat received
from the sun upon a given surface
m a given time, was invented by Sir
John Herschel in 1825... .N.F.:
•Write Department of Works, 82 Pitt
Street, Sydney C.8.C.: (1)
Can’t say offhand; how many are
in the flock? (2) The most efficient
ewe-flocks are those with a maxi-
mum proportion of ewes aged from
three to five years W.E.: The
first of 68 Mark 35 Vampire trainer
jet-aircraft ordered for the Royal
Australian Air Force was handed-
over at the De Havilland Aircraft
Co., Ltd.’s, factory at Sydney on
September 13, 1957... .Y.K.: The
cornea is a transparent part of the
coat of the eyeball. Its paper-thin
layers curve over iris and pupil,
acting as a window through which
light flows to the retina.. . .F.S.L.:
If it’s ghosts you want, try Harry
Price’s The End of Borley
Rectory, published by Harrap....
A.L.: The five-year stabilisation
plan for the dairying industry came
into operation on July 1, 1957
H.A.R.: Don’t think your question
can be answered with any certainty.
One point preventing a definite
answer would lie in the exact defini-
tion of “road” —for instance, a small
lane or bush-track may have altitude
qualifications but would be ruled
out by supporters of other “roads.”
Your nomination for the honor
probably has as much title as any
other K. de W.: One-word
place-names in Queensland with 12
letters include Auchenflower
Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims which state the
section in which paragraphs
appear and the date of
appearance will be paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
(suburb of Brisbane), Collinsville,
Glenormiston, Hillsborough, Lands-
borough, Maroochydore, Mono-
goorilby, Moolboolaman, Persever-
ance, Rollingstone, Thargomindah,
Thornborough and Yeerongpilly
(Brisbane suburb).... Hostile:
Cnumbers’s World Gazetteer (1954)
gives the following information—
“ Lake Eyre, salt lake, dry except in
the rainy season, lying north of
lake Torrens and Spencer Gulf.
Consisting of a large northern and
a small southern lake (joined by a
narrow channel), it has an area of
about 4000 square-miles, and in the
dry season yields large quantities of
salt. E. J. Eyre discovered it in
1840” J.R.S.: (1) An outline of
the beginnings of the Colombo plan
was given in an Information Sought
(B. 15 /1 / ’5B). (2) No information
one way or the other. Possibly the
best use has not been made by some
countries of the various handouts;
but the Australian Government must
be satisfied that a lot of good often
results, or it would be unlikely to
make, for instance, its recent gift of
£l3 million sterling to Pakistan
(mentioned B. 15 /1 / ’5B)
J.M.R.: Impossible to find; the
verses would be spread through
hundreds of issues H.S.: The
mortgagor is liable for the costs of
clearing the title of a property after
final payment under a mortgage.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
P.M.: Cricket story was
given Out, but the judicial finger
was raised only after long delibera-
tion... .8.D.: “Mystery at Brush
Park” given the brush-off... .K.H.:
Not in the market for eulogy of
Elvis Presley R.K.F.: Antemic
verse; whiskery theme.... J.J .G.:
Send love-song to your girl-friend.
B.T.W.: No more buts, Mr.
VV.; it’ll never make the stage
A. Artificial... .J. 8.: Not for
us L.V.E.: You surely must
have “swallowed a dictionary.”
Febrifuge, naprapathy, oecumenical,
simulaerum, tomentose and (whew!)
Caesaropapistical! Simple words
and simple language are far the
best F.P.: “Buried Alive”
unexpectedly bumpy.... Pelga: The
most luxurious of sultans never had
retinues of slaves “licking his feet”
the way you say the waves lick
yours E. 8.: There’s a touch of
genuine observation in the drought
poem L. 8.5.: Seeing it’s your
“Fiftieth Birthday,” hop in:
I wish that I could once more be
As active as the questing flea.
....A.P.: Not keen on phantom’s
ghastly moans P.G,: Even in a
poem about a blackfellow named
Ormiomooloo it hardly seems polite
to call his prospective offspring
“ ’ninnies”... .S.E.C.: All your
whimsical wishes are doomed to
disappointment... .D.A.C.: “There
Is a Tale” is the best, being more
solid technically than the others.
Pead some modern Australian
poetry and don’t use archaic
language 0.W.R.: One gumtip
from “The Gumtree”:
Five hundred years it’s stood and more.
Heavenwards still the branches soar
As if uplifted in supplication
For the Celestial Being’s gratification.
D.H.: Your humorous poem
about the plumber sank us in
unfathomable despair 8.L.:
Pithy enough:—
Can it be that only in the mind exists
The high ideals of civilisation,
The true community of living
Giving, not the things we do not need,
But all the things we value:
The essence of Life and the recipe....
Gunner: Shoot it Lesbet:
Ah, well, at least you had a pun
in the covering letter... .Tanda: A
comforting note from your poem
on the pioneers:
We have our all-electric houses
Many discomforts had they—
In the days of big families
Wives seldom forgot to honor and obey.
R.E.M.: Seagulls don’t eat
orange-peel L.M.: Surely you
libel the tolerant, discreet and
noble-minded tribe of nightwatch-
men... .K.L.W.: Needs a polish ;
you’ve even forgotten to provide a
rhyme for that excellent last line.
J.A.: You’re a bit young for
us yet, but it’s quite well done
B. : Better eat those galahs
J.C.8.: Two lines from your
“Fisherman’s Confession”:
Oh, ,he caught the biggest fish and
should have won the cup,
But because of sinful envy, I wouldn’t
give it up.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FRANCO-GERMAN ALLIANCE?
TpHE elusive, shifting nature
of European alliances is
well exemplified in the current
symptoms of a Franco-German
line-up barely yesterday it
seemed that the other Western
Powers were striving to bring
the two countries together and
to prevent hopes for European
unity foundering in the war-
time residues of mutual Franco-
German fear and hate.
The current signs of some
sort of alliance developing have
been noted by several observers,
albeit cautiously and with no
desire to go too far out on
such a shaky prophetic limb.
Still, as that astute “New York
Times” commentator C. L.
Sulzberger notes, the move-
ment “does exist as a novel
phenomenon in post - war
Europe.”
Various and not always
related forces have developed
and converged to produce
conditions conducive to a
Franco-German axis. In the
first place, Sulzberger
suggests, the old entente
cordiale between Britain and
France, at its greatest post-war
strength at the time of Suez,
has been weakened by differing
Arab policies—“ Paris, with its
Algerian war, has adopted an
uncompromising anti - Arab
view which London does not
share ; the British have slipped
back toward a policy of seek-
ing to accommodate the
Arabs.”
There have also been differ-
ences over European economic
union between Britain on the
one hand and France and Ger-
many on the other, added to
which West Germany is in a
much better position than Lon-
don to give France the financial
assistance it badly needs
because of the drain of the
North African campaigns.
Then there is the matter of
nuclear weapons. France is
determined to make them;
West Germany is forbidden to
do so. France, however, would
be grateful for financial
assistance in this project, while
West Germany (which has not
renounced the use of nuclear
weapons) would feel happier if
it did not have to rely exclu-
sively on the U.S. and Britain
for atomic protection and
weapons.
“France and Germany,”
Sulzberger adds, “already
operate a joint rocket-experi-
mental station in St. Louis in
Alsace. Nothing stands in the
way of expanding such
collaboration.”
“With this background,”
Sulzberger concludes, “a nasty
Anglo-German dispute has
broken out which deeply per-
plexes Nato. The Bonn
Government refuses to con-
tinue payments to help London
maintain its Army of the Rhine.
Both the United States and
Nato’s permanent officialdom
are trying to solve the impasse
—so far without success.
“Possibly connected with all
this is Adenauer’s gradual fade-
ILLINGWORTH, IN LONDON “DAILY MAIL ”
away as the totally dominating
force in West German politics.
The old man is now resting on
the French Riviera while seeds
of a future contest emerge
among his potential successors.
Strauss [Defence Minister] is a
strong runner. Should he be
able to boast that he saved the
voters millions of marks in
Allied support - costs and
obtained a foot in the door of
French nuclear experiments, he
might well strengthen his
claim.”
Nasser on the Nile
Egyptian claims to portion
of the Sudan are not, as the
“Manchester Guardian” notes
in the following sampling of
press-comment, without some
slim historical foundation ; it is
the manner of making them, as
London “Economist” points
out, that says most about
Nasser’s Middle East aspira-
tions :
Czeslaw Jesman in London
“Daily Telegraph ” ; “Nasser is
following in the footsteps of
Khedive Ismail, who dreamt of
conquering Uganda and
Ethiopia in the ’seventies of the
last century. The sudden flare-
up on the Egyptian-Sudanese
frontier ushers in a period of
intense political commotion in
the north-eastern corner of
Africa, and thus, inevitably,
plays into Soviet hands.”
* * •
London “Daily Telegraph”
editorial comment: “What
baleful memories are evoked
by Nasser’s sudden incursion
into the Sudan. First comes the
high-handed Egyptian demand
for two seemingly unimportant
border areas ; then, when the
demand is not immediately
granted, Egyptian troops are
reported to have moved into
the area ; when the Sudanese
react, they are denounced in
Cairo as violating Egyptian
sovereignty. Meanwhile, taken
by surprise and confused as to
what is actually happening and
why, the Great Powers put out
anodyne statements.
“How dismally familiar it all
is down to the last detail. Here
is an avowedly expansionist
Power pursuing its aims by
increments so small that each
move in itself seems hardly
worth while fussing about.
Why should the Sudanese
bother about two bits of desert
in a still undefined border area?
No vital interests are involved ;
no treaties broken. As for the
Great Powers, they would only
make themselves absurd by
seeking to interfere in a local
squabble in a far-off desert. Yet
the ugly fact remains that
Nasser has once again brazenly
flouted the comity of nations,
has once again proved Egypt a
revolutionary Power with
aggressive aims.”
* * *
London “Daily Express
“Nasser has never forgiven the
Sudan for. refusing to become
part of Egypt. He is bent on
humiliating the present
Sudanese Government, which
has resisted his demand for an
unfair portion of the Nile
waters. And, being a dictator,
he must produce a cheap coup
every few months.”
'* * *
“Manchester Guardian” :
“To which country does the dis-
puted land belong? According
to the Convention of 1899 the
word ‘Sudan’ means ‘all the
territories south of the 22nd
parallel of latitude which’—and
then follow conditions that do
not affect the land north of it.
This is the only definition of
the frontier by international
treaty. But because the straight
line cut across tribal territory
an ‘administrative boundary’
was adopted for convenience
three years later without treaty
formality. This line has been


r
; to
s
\
This Bank
helps young people
who plan ahead
This Bank takes a special interest in young people
who plan for their future. There are many ways in
which its facilities, its experience and knowledge can
help them achieve their ambitions.
¥
If you have set yourself a
goal, open a C.B.C. savings
account this week and watch
your savings grow.
All deposits in the C.B.C .
Savings Bank are guaranteed
by the parent company The
Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited.
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SyOOEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
accepted in practice ever since
—by Egypt among others —and
the Sudan hangs her present
case on it; Egypt relies on the
convention.”
* * *
London “Economist” : “The
manner of President Nasser’s
challenge is another matter. He
no doubt argues that if the
referendum on the Presidency
of the United Arab Republic is
not held in the disputed territory
and the Sudan elections are, he
has given further tacit consent
to the administrative frontier ;
but any legal rights he may
have could have been pre-
served more pacifically. His
brusque method of sending his
agents and police to Halaib on
the Red Sea coast gives rise to
suspicions e ther that he is now
temperamentally accustomed to
the dictatorial method of
behavior, or that he desires to
disturb the Sudan during its
critical election period. What-
ever the reason, it is certain that
his rough behavior towards the
Sudan will not win him the
credit with the Arabs that he
has often got by similar
manners towards ‘the wicked
imperialists’; and in the Sudan
it will do him and Egypt much
harm.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post”: “His
[Nasser's] move against the
Sudan, litt'e more than a fort-
night after the formation of
his United Arab Republic, has
the precise Hitlerian touch, as
deceptive as it is dramatic. It
is also multi-purposed. Ex-
King Farouk’s heady dream
about the unity of the Nile
Valley has been swallowed up
in wider, more gorgeous
ambitions ; but it has not been
forgotten. Cairo’s military
junta has long cast acquisitive
eyes southward. Wing-
Commander Sabry was lately
on one of his busy visits to
Khartoum ; and the' Sudanese,
with their own general election
in prospect, had been
summarily told to prepare them-
selves for entry into the United
Arab Republic not later than
March.
“Are the military manoeuvres
around the 22nd parallel
intended to scare them into
hastening this accession? Or
are they, as was plausibly
argued in London, ‘merely the
preliminaries to a much bigger,
more graspingly ambitious
campaign?’
“King Saud sits silent and
glowering at Riadh; his com-
pliments, though prompt and
profuse, on the foundation of
the United Arab Republic and
then on the Union of Irak and
Jordan, have worn a forced and


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution clo'sely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia: F. H. Egerton,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Manager for Australia.
formal note. Rich but heavily
overdrawn, aware that his
kingdom’s oil reserves are still
necessary to the Western
Powers (and principally the
United States), and aware, too,
of the attractions of the game
of playing one side off against
another, King Saud has
suddenly been compelled to
admit that —for all President
Nasser’s smiles and handshakes
—he faces a most serious
challenger on his own doorstep.
“It is a bleak and compli-
cated tangle. The threat to the
Sudan deserves to be taken
seriously. Nasser’s aspirations
in Africa are as real and as
menacing as his oft-proclaimed
desire to establish a single Arab
empire along the whole
Mediterranean littoral, from
the Atlas to the Taurus Moun-
tains. And he hankers no less
after control of the Nile waters
than of Arabia’s oilwells.”
Russian Gold
Although the U.S.S.R.
keeps its gold - production
figures pretty much to itself, it
is known, comments Thomas
Preston in a letter to London
“Time and Tide,” “that Soviet
gold exports during the latter
parts of 1956 and at the begin-
ning of 1957 amounted to about
£5O million”:
“From accounts published in
‘The Times’ towards the end
of October last, it appears that
200 tons, or about £BO-million-
worth, of gold was exported
from the U.S.S.R. to Western
Europe—mainly to Swiss banks
—within the first six months of
1957, or half as much again as
during the whole of 1956.
“In addition to this the
Soviets had the proceeds,
valued at $402 million, of their
exports with which to pay for
their imports from Western
Europe.
“For what purpose are the
enormous balances of foreign
currency (mainly hard) accumu-
lated in Western banks from
the proceeds of the sale of
Russian gold, far in excess of
Russia’s normal trade require-
ments?
“The only explanation of this
phenomenon is the necessity for
the Soviets to meet the bill,
estimated in 1955 at £4oo'
million (U.S. State Department
figures), for their ideological
warfare and subversive
activities in the non-Communist
countries.”
Korea
Commenting on the
announcement (by Chinese
Premier Chou and North
Korean Premier Kim) that the
Chinese “volunteer” army of
350,000 troops will be with-
drawn fropi North Korea oy
the end of this year, “New
York Times” notes that “in
view of the long record of
Communist perfidy this
announcement is being greeted
with healthy scepticism”-:
“But there may be good
reasons for it—among them,
the atomic weapons of the
United Nations forces, the
growing Soviet-Chinese rivalry
in North Korea, the continued,
exodus from North Korea,
which has reduced its popula-
tion from nine-million to some
3.5-million, and a possible
desire by Peking to purge itself
of the United Nations con-
demnation of its aggression as
a step toward United Nations
membership.”
London “Economist” sees
the announcement as “the first
major improvement for several
-London “Doily Mirror”
“THE OUTLOOK IS A LOT BRIGHTER THAN THE ONE WHICH
CONFRONTED THE ENGLAND OF ELIZABETH I IN 1558.”—Mr. Macmillan.
years in a situation which has
been growing gradually
bleaker”:
“The Chinese can be congratu-
lated, without any reservations,
on their withdrawal. The West
ought to feel nothing but
pleasure at the sight of the
troops of a great Communist
Power marching out of the
territory of a small neighbor.
“However, it is not yet safe to
conclude that the comparatively
few American troops still in
Korea can imitate the Chinese
and sail away as the Soviet
Government has lost no time in
urging them to do. It might be
that it the Americans still had
bases for ground-forces in
Japan, as they had in 1950,
they might be willing to fall
back to those. But their army
has evacuated Japan ; its
nearest base is 500 miles away
in Okinawa, and a renewed
outbreak of fighting between
North and South Koreans, with
the Chinese next door on the
Yalu, would then catch the
Americans at a serious disad-
vantage.
“Besides, President Rhee has
never formerly retracted his
threat to march north and
‘finish the war.’ If the restrain-
ing presence of the Americans
were removed, and if he
regained control over his army’s
petrol and ammunition supplies,
the risks of an outbreak might
increase.
“In Korea there must be
some permanent solution to the
political problem before the
military dangers disappear. For
this reason it is worth the
West’s while at least to con-
sider the Communist proposal
of an all-Korean election
supervised by observers from
neutral countries,
“This offer still falls well
short of the demands of the
South Koreans, who want the
election to be heM under their
own constitutional law and to
be supervised by the United
Nations. But it is a consider-
abie advance on the old Com-
munist suggestions of ‘col-
laboration’ on some ill-defined
confederate basis between the
two halves of the country,
~ .
• If the supervis f y commis-
wer p e finely neutral-
J" d,a ; fi f?‘ and “ d , S J eden ,
1 ‘ B J\ t tbe , and
c f ou d Tf Ut u th f c °T try
y ’ ll 1S dl ff cu lVl° ' e^ e
that , th * north s ,/ ltth of the
population could return a
Communist Government or


j
■mmm
y
mm
N
m
wmm
***
XM
Prices from £9lO plus tax.
DRIVE HOLDEN YOURSELF AND DISCOVER WHY
More and more people are
changing to Holden
From 45,000 in 1955 an d 49>000 in 1956, official registrations for Holden sales
jumped to 64,000 in 1957. This is further proof that car buyers are changing
to Holden.
There are three key reasons behind the swing. First, Holden is the one car
designed and built for Australia. Second, Holden offers you more value for your
money than any other make. And third, owners all over Australia have proved
that Holden lives up to the claims made for it.
Looking at official registration figures over the last few years you will
see that demand for Holden has increased rapidly.
Holden has proved itself a great family car. But the lift it will give to your
family motoring can be measured only by you. Drive Holden yourself. Get to
know how much fun you can get out of motoring at low cost today.
Let’s prove its extra value!
Prove Holden performance ... It has the silence and smoothness that only a
six cylinder engine can give.
Prove Holden comfort . . . The comfort of big, wide seats over 57" wide
lots of leg room for six footers and giant-sized luggage space.
Prove Holden handling ease . . . the wonderful vision all round and the ball
bearing steering.
No other family car has such a story to tell you. So call in and see your
Holden Dealer. He’ll give you the full story.
H O L D E NL.
AUSTRALIA’S
OWN CAR
GMAC hire purchase available . 11 Air Chief” is the GMH car radio .
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDENS LTD. • Brisbane » Sydney • Melbourne • Adelaide • Pertn
even a very large block of
Communist deputies.
“So long as the two halves
of the country stay divided,
glaring at each other with
throat-slitting gestures, the
hopes of a lasting peace remain
dim.”
Foreign Aid
Leading U.S. comment
(“N. Y. Times” and N. Y.
“Herald Tribune”) on Presi-
dent Eisenhower’s request to
Congress for $3900 million for
foreign aid:
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“By meeting the Soviet eco-
nomic challenge, he [the
President] pointed out, we [the
U.S.] will save far higher
defence costs, will avoid having
to draft more recruits.
“The sum asked—of which
only about $l3OO million will
go for the type of technological
assistance which can help the
underdeveloped and uncom-
mitted areas industrialise and
remain free is actually far
from adequate to the task.
“All Americans who do
understand the seriousness of
this challenge should help in
every way possible to organise
spirited support for this seem-
ing political orphan. The more
such grass-root support arises
the greater will be our chances
of surviving—and deserving to
survive in the long-range
struggle with a rival who
neglects no opportunities, and
who is able to use his utmost
potentials without any fear
of political consequences at
home.”
* * M
“New York Times’ : “Presi-
dent Eisenhower insists, and
we agree, that it is a misnomer
to call this programme one of
‘foreign aid.’ It is a programme
‘of transcendent importance to
the security of the United
States,’ on an equal rank with
our own defence budget.
“The President does well to
look squarely in the eye those
many politicians who say—
especially in this time of reces-
sion—that they can’t vote for
‘foreign aid’ while there is un-
employment and a scarcity of
public-works programmes in
their own districts. What Mr.
Eisenhower says on this point
is worth repeating :
“ ‘No one would seriously
argue that funds for our own
military forces should be
denied until desirable civilian
projects had been provided for.
Yet our expenditures for mutual
security are fully as important
to our national defence as
expenditures for our own
forces, and dollar for dollar
buy us more in security.’ ”
"Better Left Unsaid"
London “Spectator” comment
on the U.K. Government's
announcement (in the White
Paper on defence) that the West
will retaliate with nuclear
weapons, even if Russia
attacked only with conventional
forces:
“It is one thing to have
an implied deterrent, quite
another to come out openly
with the White Paper threat—
and for many reasons.
“To begin with, the threat
is empty: everybody, including
Mr. Sandys, knows that H-
bombs will not be launched
from this country [Britain] if a
conventional war begins. But
Mr. Khrushchev may not
realise this. For all his political
acumen, he is a man of exceed-
ingly limited intelligence ; he
may conceivably believe—and
is likely to, if we say it often
enough that we really intend
to hit back with strategic
nuclear weapons if, say, war
breaks out anywhere along the
Curtain.
“And this, surely, is
dangerous ; for there is always
a risk that war may break out,
unheralded and unwanted. If
it should, Khrushchev might
not appraise the true situation
here; he might feel that it
would be wise to obliterate us
before we have decided whether
or not to carry out the White
Paper’s policy,
“A small risk, perhaps—but
an unnecessary one. There are
some things better left unsaid,
and this was one of them.”


OPES
oj Every Type
and Size
Famous for many
years as Queensland’s
premier manufacturers
of envelopes we pro-
duce the well known—
“JAXUL” PATENT
CLEAR - FACE WIN-
DOW Envelopes in
sizes 5f ins. x ins.,
6| x 3f and 9 ins. x
4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED En-
velopes in all sizes,
No. 1 to No. 8.
Plain or Printed
COMMERCIAL En-
velopes in all standard
sizes and qualities,
plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application
lockson &
. O’Sullivan pt y . lw.
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers <fi Printers
304-806 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Wine and Cheese
I see that, at the Queen
Mother’s banquet in Sydney,
Australian wines and Danish
cheese were served. No doubt
plenty of dairymen are pre-
paring to foam at the mouth
over this, but courtesy
demanded the best, and the
sad fact is that we produce no
cheese approaching in quality
the best imported brands.
Many reasons are given for
this state of affairs, but I think
the main one is to be found
in the web of controls that
has gradually enmeshed the
industry, from price-controls
in various forms imposed by
Governments past and
present, to the equalisation
scheme devised by the industry
itself, and the cost-of-produc-
tion price for local sales plus
20 per cent, which is a part-
Government, part - industry
affair.
The controls were imposed
for various reasons, and they
may have achieved their
objects, but it is time to con-
sider whether we are paying
too high a price for these
achievements. Equalisation,
bounty and cost of production
have certainly given the
industry a stability and
security it has never before
known, but it is a security that
benefits mainly the less
efficient, since the highly effici-
ent producer would probably
do all right in any case. And
it does weaken the incentive
to strive for greater efficiency.
Price-control has given the
consumer a good food at a
price he can afford, but, except
during the war, he would
probably be getting that any-
way, as there is no shortage,
and it ensures that he will
never be able to taste better
than reasonably good cheddar,
unless he pays fancy prices for
imported fancy lines.
Managements have never
shown much interest in these
fancy types, or even in really
good matured cheddar, but
these are quite a bit more
costly to make than mild
cheddar, and would hardly be
profitable under the present
price-structure, even if there
were an assured market. As
the market would have to be
pioneered, with all the risks
that entails, nobo d y is
interested.
Imagine the Australian
wine-industry under a similar
system. All brands would be
marketed through the one
authority, and growers would
get a uniform cost of produc-
tion price, say ss. a bottle,
for fair average plonk, with a
premium of Is. for really good
wine and 2s. for super
quality. If that were the case
I am sure the Queen Mother
would have been served
imported wines, for lack of a
decent Australian article. —
Magnoon (Q.).
School Age
The action of the Victorian
Education Department in
authorising the admittance of
•H-year-old children to schools
this year appears shortsighted
in view of the continuing lack
of teachers and classroom-
accommodation. It has been
welcomed only by those who,
one would expect, should not
come into the picture at all —
the parents, many of whom are
no doubt glad to be rid of their
offspring.
It is only a few years since
there was a widespread agita-
tion for the raising of the
school-leaving-age to 15. But
successive Governments of
various political colors resisted
this campaign because it was
logically contended that it
would worsen classroom-
accommodation and the staff
position.
Now the department has
“Whoa!"
sanctioned the intake of
children of kindergarten age to
schools already overcrowded.
Another important point is
the benefit likely to accrue to
these young children. Surely
for at least six months they
would acquire little real learn-
ing and would be better if left
in the play-centres. On the
other hand, children of 14
would benefit immeasurably by
staying at school another year.
—Plain Australian (Vic.).
Shelley
Shelley was a poet of high
genius, but surely M. G.
Skipper shows poor judgment
in claiming (B. 12/2/’5B) that
he was “probably the greatest
Englishman of his epoch, and
possibly one of the greatest
men of all time.”
To qualify for such praise
the subject would have to have
done something exceptionally
outstanding, either of a prac-
tical nature (in constructive
statesmanship, exploration,
military achievement, inven-
tion, etc.), or as the enunciator
of political, religious, social,
or economic ideas that had
profound and long-lasting
influence.
Shelley had no practical
achievements to his credit. As
an exponent of ideas he did
nothing original. His attitude
to religion, as Saintsbury
lemarked in his Shorter History
oj English Literature, ranged
from “crude atheism” in his
earlier period to “mystic
pantheism” in his later years.
His political opinions were
derived, through William God-
win, from the extreme school
of French Revolutionary
thought known as Jacobinism.
He had no influence on
English political
thought or prac-
tical development.
Saints bury re-
marked of him
that “his studies
on no subject ever
took orderly or
p h i 1 o s o p h ical
form.” He (Saints-
bury) pronounced
Shelley a natural
rebel, politically,
apt to oppose
whatever was
the constituted
authority, and
suggested that if
he had lived in a period of
radical rule he would have been
a high Tory.
Without going beyond
literary figures of his own age
it is difficult to see why he
should be pronounced greater,
either as writer or man, than


JUST ONE BRUSHING WITH
Colgate
Dental
Cream
c*
*»*
o'*
0®
CLEANS
YOUR
BREATH
WHILE IT
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
STOPS TOOTH DECAY BEST!
Scientific tests over a 2-year period show a startling reduction
to tooth decay for those who brushed their teeth with
yolgate’s right after eating! In fact X-rays showed no new
Cavities whatever for almost % out of 3 people.
Koops children's tooth healthy
Scientific tests showed that the Colgate
way of brushing teeth right after eating
stopped decay for more people than evdt
before reported in all dentifrice historft
Your teeth are whiter brighter and
you ate assured of round-the-clock pjRP
tection against decay-causing enzymefe
M m.StiL I
frigate Dental Crea* it AwtraKa’s largest
AmaHea’s largest the werld's largest selling dental
Get the family economy size and save up to 2/2.
„
W 2308
Sir Walter Scott. Scott may
have been below him as a poet,
but he was a very great
novelist, the virtual creator of
the historical novel. He was
Shelley’s superior morally, and
far ahead of him in political
commonsense. Wordsworth’s
influence on poetic develop-
ment was at least as great as
Shelley’s.
Robert Southey was a much
lesser figure as a poet, but, like
Scott, a finer man. He was
as good a master of prose as
-Shelley, and, in some of his
. social and economic ideas,
away ahead of him. Southey’s
“Colloquies on Society” was
laughed at by Macaulay in his
celebrated review, and
described as “Socialistic.”
Nonetheless some of the
opinions expressed in that
work now enjoy general
acceptance. He (Southey) held,
for instance, that there should
be a minimum living-standard,
sufficient to enable the poor
to live in decency. His writ-
ings inspired the social
reformer, Lord Shaftesbury.
Disraeli’s social philosophy,
which forms the basis of the
social programme of the
modern British Conservative
Party, was also influenced by
him.-— Cunedda (N.S.W.).
Water and Market-gardens
“Eureka” (B. 22/1/’5B) asks
why don’t market-gardeners
who complain about water-
restrictions tap the water that
lies right under their gardens
in so many instances. Can’t
answer for growers in other
places, but around Perth and
Fremantle market - gardeners
have been doing that very thing
for years. They long ago
realised that money laid out on
wells, pumps and piping was
money well spent. As a result,
they are independent of the
water-supply department and
unworried by departmental
restrictions during heat-waves.
—Pip Tok (W.A.).
Hire-purchase
In the financial pages of my
newspaper today it is
announced that the State Elec-
tricity Commission (Victoria)
loan closed with only 62 per
cent, subscribed. The under-
writers were left with the rest.
The interest-rate was 5| per
cent, for optional currencies
of seven, 10, or 20 years. On
the same pages of the paper
were advertisements by vari-
ous credit concerns offering
interest-rates ranging from 4
per cent, for money at call to
12 per cent, for three years.
How semi - government
utilities are to compete with
the wild scramble for h.-p.
business beats me, but I dare
say it is only a matter of time
when a showdown must take
place. Over £3OO million is
now owing by the Australian
public under h.-p. contracts,
and judging by the way things
are going, only the fringe of
the business has been
touched. These contracts,
based as they are on the
assumption that present wages
and employment will continue,
seem to be fraught with
danger to all concerned.
Before the depression of the
1930’s responsible authorities
were pointing out that the
whole of the United States of
America was sinking in a sea
of debt. It looks a bit like
that in Australia at the
present time. Manufacturing
concerns cannot dispose of
their output to cash buyers, so
h.-p. is resorted to, first on a
reasonably adequate deposit,
and then for a very small or
no deposit at all.
What is the move after that
market has been satisfied? It
is by no means inexhaustible,
and already the average pay-
envelope is loaded with a
heavy h.-p. commitment. Any
sort of a recession at all will
result in contracts being
broken right and left.
Scattered all over the small
town in which I live are TV-
aerials, cars in makeshift
garages (the car always seems
to come before the garage),
ramshackle wash - houses
equipped with washing-
machines, and kitchens boast-
ing everything that opens and
shuts from refrigerators to
cake-mixers. Yet this same
town, when recently confronted
with a referendum as to
whether sewerage should be
installed, voted by about five-
to-one against it. “Cannot
afford it” was the reason
advanced in the majority of
cases. The future for quite a
long time ahead has been
mortgaged for luxuries while
essentials (such as sewerage)
are shelved indefinitely.—
Bully Bill (Vic.).


WRITERS' WORKSHOPS
OLAF itUHEN’S informative
article (B. 12/2/’5B) on a
U.S. writers’ workshop was well
worth reading on its own
account, but for us it had more
than usual interest since we can
inform Mr. Ruhen on one
point. There have been writers’
workshops in Australia and
there will be more.
Back in 1954, after we had
studied the set-up of the U.S.
’shops, we launched Australia’s
first at Beaumaris, a Melbourne
bayside spot. Its success
encouraged us to repeat the
venture later that year at the
same place. Since then we've
managed three more, two of
them in Sydney.
In the main we have closely
followed the American pattern.
Each time we have booked a
private hotel in pleasant sur-
roundings. Our writers —an
average of about 35 beginners
and professionals have
attended for eight days and
paid their own expenses (usually
about £l6 all told). Each day
they’ve worked at a creative
programme of writing, listened
to talks from visiting writers,
watched films and radio plays.
The press, publishers and the
A.B.C. have co-operated magni-
ficently.
All in all, our Australian
writers’ workshops are now a
well-established and smoothly
integrated organisation. One
thing we'd like to see at our
next Sydney ’shop—a visit from
Mr. Ruhen himself. We have a
great respect for him and his
accomplishments. We have read
some of his U.S. stories as well
as his Bulletin contributions.
In his work he demonstrates
that “vigor and sound construc-
tion” which he rightly says is
lacking in much Australian
writing. And his positive, con-
structive approach to the need
for aiding the coming writer is
something we wholeheartedly
commend.— Gordon Pittaway
and Ray Davie (Vic.).
nr HE average Australian
would-be writer is an
enigma with a chip on his
shoulder. He cries loudly for
a better deal and bewails the
lack of opportunity in his own
land. The only thing he rarely
does is apply the seat of his
pants to a chair and his fingers
to the keys of a typewriter.
Most Australian writers do
not, as suggested by Olaf
Ruhen', live in a barren and
sterile atmosphere. They live in
a land of rapid development,
a land where people from other
countries are introducing their
own culture and setting
standards of literature which
we, with our insular, chip-on-
the-shoulder attitude, may feel
is far above us yet which we
must emulate if we want to
rank with the world’s best
writers.
And we have our writers’
workshops. In every State in
Australia there are literary
groups in which young writers
should be able to learn the
rudiments of their craft. That
they don’t—that most of these
groups live with the ghosts of
yesterday—is regrettable, and a
big factor retarding the growth
of Australian literature.
But there are other writers’
groups, virile groups, where
people, young and old, meet
regularly, exchange market
notes, discuss writing tech-
niques, hear and read each
other’s stories and, generally,
obtain a sound grounding in
the writing game.
The Quill Club of Australia
conducts an annual writers’
convention in Melbourne, per-
haps not strictly along the lines
experienced by Olaf Ruhen, but
heading in the right direction.
In any comparison between
the two countries we must
remember the population
figures, the concentration of
population and the markets
available to make writing a
payable proposition. We have,
of course, our professional fact-
and fiction-writers, but are they
true freelances? Can they live
on the sale of, say, four stories
a year so that they can take
months over a single story,
polishing and repolishing until
it is perfect? No. Mostly they
must churn out reams of
material, mostly commissioned,
even to exist.
The idea for the Quill
Writers’ Convention was born
in the Olympic year, and the
first gathering was held at Sea-
ford during November of that
year. It was held during a
weekend what Australian
writer can manage a week away
from the eternal grind of pro-
viding for a wife and family, let
alone the Taxation Depart-
ment? Total cost was £3—
low enough to enable even an
Australian writer to attend —-
and the meals and accommoda-
tion were plain but good,
The late Sir Thomas White
opened the first convention,
and to the 50 writers who
attended he proved a source'
of wisdom, knowledge and
friendliness. He was genuinely
interested in the Australian
writer—as he was in all forms
of Australian art and the
future of Australian writing,
AB.C. book-reviewer and
a well-known author and poet
himself—Arthur Phillips dis-
cussed the myth in writing and
gave those present much
material to get their teeth into
and digest at leisure. Sid
Courtier told of writing stories
for'' the American market,
Bernard Cronin conducted the
open forum session and John
Morrison discussed the use and
effectiveness of the Australian
bush in our literature. Then our
grand old lady of Australian
literature, Mary Mitchell,
charmed everyone with her
gracious manner and discussed
the writing of novels frankly
and personally.
Plenty there for the budding
writer. Plenty of material to
take away for the coming year
and plenty of stimulus to
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 477
Across
I—Mixed1 —Mixed oil makes some changes in orchards of oil-bearing
fruit. (9)
7 River running in on a constellation liner. (5)
8 — Garments which make Collins hot. (4-6)
10 —Healed wound on a dead tongue associated with a
disease. (10)
11—Haircut town in Ireland. (4)
13—Swear fish-eggs finish off an Arab
philosopher. (8)
15 — Bird noted for its wit. (6)
16— N.Z. bird. (3)
18 —Landed property teaset is
smashed. (6)
20 —Blend in the period between one
school vacation and the next nine.
(8)
23 — Backed up the little fortissimo
pant. (4)
24 — Exploits a five in false teeth. (10)
25 — Tending to reveal a bit of merry-
making by a conservative. (10)
27 — He is in the rum and non-coca
choler. (5)
28— Australia’s oldest State in the
middle of a Melbourne suburb.
(9)
Down
1 — 1 -across certainly does to become
this. (3)
2 Ape and we are singularly the
thing consumed. (7)
3 Adelaide Cricket Club and the
Spanish Queen Elizabeth had
food to step on the gas. (10)
4 Woman-headed lioness makes the
ageless seraph in the unknown
quantity. (6)
5 Clown what may cause the wharf
to collapse? (7)
6 One source of revenue in skylight
choppers. (6, 5)
9 —One way to escape two calls in
tennis umpiring. (6)
10—Bari to agitate the assegai? (11)
12 —Trouser attachments especially
noticeable in pa’s strides. (4-6)
14—The Latin of himself. (3)
17 —Stick in this place. (6)
19 —Confectionery tea. of professional
charges. (7)
21 — Spoil business turned in for a
radio pioneer. (7)
22 — Wildly braved this part of
speech. (6)
26 —Miss Kendall is upset by such
Himalayan beef. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 476


Missing Beneficiary
> - 3
WOULD the wife of LEONARD
AUGUSTUS CLARKE, who died in New
Zealand on 23rd April, 1956, or any
person knowing her whereabouts, please
communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Whangarei, New
Zealand.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS JOHN FAWKINER late
of Cobar.—TAKE NOTICE that IDA
MARY PATRICIA FAWKINER has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 4478 of
1957 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry . Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 12th May 1958 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from BRYAN G. TURNER,
Solicitor, of 10 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
CHATEAU TANUNDA
Stories of the Coastal Lights No. 15
n
m %
0 j *
Low Head
The light at Low Head, on the east side of the entrance to
the River Tamar, Tasmania, is the third oldest in Australia.
Only the Macquarie lighthouse at Sydney (originally estab-
lished in 1818 and rebuilt in 1833) and the Iron Pot light
near Hobart (established in 1832) have longer histories.
The first light at Low Head was shown from a 50 ft. stone
tower in December 27 1833. This was replaced five years
later with a revolving catoptric light, which consisted of a
large number of polished metal reflectors of parabolic form
each with its own individual oil lamp. The apparatus was
assembled on a frame which rotated slowly by clockwork
mechanism to give alternations from light to dark every 50
seconds.
After half a century of use, the original tower fell into
disrepair and was replaced in 1888 by a new brick tower
68 ft. high. Ten years later, an auxiliary fixed red light was
installed to warn shipping away from the dangers of Hebe
Reef, near the entrance to the Tamar. The main light (white
group flashing) is 142 ft. above high water level and the
auxiliary light is 20 ft. lower.
In 1916, the white light was strengthened to 90,000 candle-
power. It was again increased in strength in 1941 (to 350,000
candlepower) and can be seen 18 miles in clear weather.
The red light is of 1,000 candlepower. To make the tower
more distinctive in daytime, a broad horizontal band was
painted round the middle of it in 1926.
Because of the prevalance of fogs in the area, a fog sig-
nal was installed in 1929. This gives three blasts every
minute and has a range of several miles.
The position of the tower is latitude 41° 04' south, longi-
tude 146° 47' east. It is four miles from Georgetown and
37 miles from Launceston.
You can have confidence in the quality
of this pure grape brandy
CHATEAU TANUNDA
N.S.W. Agents
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributor of fine spirits for 120 years
CLIS
encourage the writer to keep on
writing—in spite of everything.
And discussion? Well, you
cannot put two or more writers
together for a few minutes
without the talk turning to
writing, writing methods,
markets and stories in general.
Put them together for a full
weekend and the result is a
real feast.
But was this a workshop?
Strictly speaking, no. The
Quill Club did not set out to
teach people to write. Neither
they nor their speakers can do
that. What they did set out
to do was to encourage the
hesitating writer, even the
established writer, to keep on
writing. This, I believe, they
achieved.
The club provided the meet-
ing-place, supplied the speakers
and looked after their welfare
for the weekend. What oppor-
tunities the writers made of
these facilities lay entirely in
their own typing fingers.
Was the first convention suc-
cessful? Well, fifty writers
again gathered at Seaford the
following year to hear Nevile
Shute open the convention and
tell them that although the road
to authorship was hard, it was
possible and rewarding. Arthur
Phillips, by popular request,
was again on the speaking-
panel, and Dr. Drucker, U.S.
Information Officer, brought a
new note to the convention
when he told how a scholarly
piece of writing was compiled.
Lance Wedlick, practising free-
lance-writer and instructor in
the adult - education story-
writing course, gave his listeners
much material for future use
and a good deal of sound, prac-
tical advice. Dr. Bodi, a new
arrival from Hungary and a
Doctor of Literature, discussed
several stories submitted by
those present and compared
them with stories written for
similar markets overseas. The
result was rather devastating,
but very educational.
Practical work? Sunday, on
each occasion, was set aside as
a free period—and proved one
of the most popular sessions.
Of course the typewriters
clicked, and eager listeners sat
at the feet of the successful and
absorbed their experiences,
relived their disappointments
and were encouraged by their
interest.
What of the future? In the
literary life of Melbourne the
annual convention has come
to stay. It fulfils a need that
writers have felt for decades,
and the cost is low enough to
enable all to take part, and the
speakers are so friendly, so
helpful and so co-operative that
even if they were to stop
writing today, their contribu-
tion to Australian literature
would be a great one.— James
Preston (Vic.).
/~\LAF RUHEN’S recom-
mendation that Australia
should adopt the U.S. idea of
writers’ workshops is rather
like saying that we should try
running sheep in this country.
We have had these workshops
for years and there is some
evidence that the idea originated
here before World War I.
But no get-togethers can
give the Australian writers what
they need most —a local market
for their work. It is a sad
fact that the market today in
Australia for articles and short
stories is 16 per cent, of what
it was in 1926. This is partly
due to the passing of so many
periodicals, but the chief trouble
is the flood of syndicated
material from the U.S.A.
Pick up almost any of our
present-day big - circulation
periodicals and you will find
that about 80 per cent, of the
stories and articles in it'-were
first published by American
magazines such as the “Satur-
day Evening Post.”
Australian writers who are
determined to keep on as long
as a market is left anywhere on
earth have been forced to do
what Olaf Ruhen himself has
done so succesfully market
their work in the U.S.A. I’m
one myself. I haven’t yet
scored in any of the really
profitable markets there, but on
the other hand I have not yet
been paid less than $lOO for
anything sold in America.
From the financial point of
view, it is very satisfactory, but
in order to score in nearly all
the American markets you have
to “slant” your work to their
requirements, which robs most
stories of their essentially Aus-
tralian characteristics and does
nothing towards helping to
build up an Australian
literature.
The most exasperating
feature of the whole business is
to submit a story to an Aus-
tralian periodical, have it
rejected, then send it to
America, where it is accepted
and published, and to find a
few months later that the same
Australian periodical has now
used it as syndicated material.
This set-up is not peculiar
to Australia. It is also happen-
ing in many other countries,
Britain included. It means that
America is practically cornering
the market for some popular
types of writing, just as it did
with films.
Give our writers some form
of local market for work of a
distinctive Australian type and
all the other problems will
solve themselves.— H. A.
Lindsay (S.A.).


ROYAL JELLY
Direct from the bees. Fabulously
rich vitalising dietary supplement.
One month’s supply, in capsules,
£5/5/-, or mixed in 6 ounces of
honey, £5. Technical data 2/$,
Free Leaflet.
B. A. PEACOCK
Apiarist, tl Carbine Street, |
KERANG. VICTORIA.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY [?] SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
WEATHER NOTES
/"\CTOBER: the season is
drying up. No winter
rains. The river has not
flooded since last January.
Cattle going off in condition
visibly. The meatworks shut
down four weeks earlier than
usual. There is plenty of good
dry feed, helped out consider-
ably by that New Australian
buffel - which grass has
proved its worth, although only
established in this part of north-
west Queensland by haphazard
broadcast sowing. Like all new-
comers should be, it’s bashful,
and waits its turn to be grazed
after the Flinders and Mitchell
have taken the menu headlines.
So feed is no worry, but
water is the number-one head-
ache. There are no flowing
bores here, and no deep-well
pumping bores. The permanent
waters are six shallow bores
with a definite pumping-limit.
Some of the water is not too
tasty, but it’s wet.
Drilling for water hereabouts
is anyone’s bet. Even the
“witch-doctors” with their
twigs are confounded. Their
To keep rams in
maximum fertility
and to maintain their
activity they should
be given a supple-
mentary feed of oats
during mating. The
oats should be fed
at the rate of
per ram per day with
feedings at two or
three days intervals.
There should be no
delay in marking and
tailing the lambs after
they are born. The
earlier the better
and the method used
should be Elastrator
Rubber Rings rather
than the kuife. This
will arrest set-back
and disease, thus
enabling the lamb to
maintain good condi-
tion.
twigs are not susceptible to
granite or diorite, which in
several new holes in succession
werte struck at less than 150 ft.
Two of them gave supplies of
unpalatable water, and when
pump-tested for 24 hour's
proved at less than 300 gallons
"No spik English .”
an hour. That may sound
good to some ears, but a thirsty
beast can drink 10 gallons at
one go, and, after a rest, some
“more for the road” back to the
feed.
Problem : how many head of
cattle can safely be grazed in
that area? The fenced portions
are so wide and handsome as
to be deemed to be almost
open country. It would not be
economical to equip such a
bore with casing, windmill,
pump-column, rods and pump,
iron or earthen storage-tank,
troughing and fencing, at a
cost of, say, £lOOO. Then there
would be required an engine
and pump-jack for the dry
season, when the mill could not
cope with demands of thirsty
cattle. Such a bore would be
a death-trap.
This year the earth-tanks
(dams, if you like) have taken a
hammering, even when
equipped with the rafts carrying
the evaporation - preventive
hexadecanol. Incidentally, we
are waiting for the day when
someone mistakes this chemical
for sago and hands some to the
cook.
Then the soaks in the river
channel —this river is not that
desirable type, the underground
stream —after it dries-out on the
-surface, We can pump from
the soaks for about nine months
after the river floods ; this year
it has stretched to 11 months,
and is now fast receding. The
homestead supply has “forked”
several times.
Any day now we shall have
to start carting water to enable
us to boil the billy and cook a
bit of corn-beef. The garden,
the subject hitherto of much
favorable comment from
visitors, has been abandoned to
its dry fate ; likewise the lawn
and shrubs. The end quickly
comes with the summer
temperature at 110 degrees F.,
including one record effort at
115 degrees F.
A review of the situation
shows that 14,000 cattle are
drinking at the four remaining
dams that have some water
(eight are dry) and six bores.
The sixty-four dollar question
is : what happens when ( a ) a
bore breaks down for a few
hours, (b) the remaining dam-
supplies dry-out.
The feed in the neighborhood
of all watering-points has long
since been grazed, so stock
have to walk a long way to the
feed. This constant perambula-
ting is very severe on the
breeders; we are still branding
calves, and they are getting a
harsh introduction to life.
Cow leaves calf tucked away
in the shade and sets off for a
drink, say, two or three miles.
There and back will probably
take at least two to three hours.
This absence upsets the nursing
routine. Enter the dingo
menace. Dingoes have been
hungrily waiting for this
chance to gulp an undisturbed
bellyful of easy veal. It’s a
gift in the absence of Mother’s
prodding, aggressive horns (or
even her hard knobbly skull
if she is polled). She can
deliver a prod or a bunt that
will ring the bell on any dog,
dingo or domestic.
Are there are many dingoes
about? Some will tell you they
are not a plague. But 25 years
ago all these properties, now
running cattle, were sheep-
stations. They all had —some
still have woolsheds. The
dogger on a neighboring hold-
ing turned in 400 scalps in
one yiear.
At this homestead we can
hear dingoes howling at night,
any night. We have shot them
in daylight coming to the
horse-trough to drink. How
many dingoes make
a plague? What
do they eat?
Kangaroos, rabbits
(very few of these
here), odd ground
birds, perhaps a
goanna or two.
Would any dingo do
a “Landy” after a
kangaroo when
there’s beef laid on!
Well, there it is, wait-
ing and trembling in
the shade for Mother
to come home with
full bowser nice
baby-beef!
Stock are losing condition
fast, some too weak to climb
out of a gully or creek even
when close to water. At one
bore the pumper has occupied
spare time by burning carcasses
near the troughs. Firewood is
scarce thereabouts, but he has
managed to find enough to
burn 18 in three weeks. How
many have died out in the
paddock uncounted?
At the end of November we
had some storms, not much at
the homestead, but enough to
raise our hopes. Still too little


. HOMES
pipe for every
purpose
- <S \ ' C-
:' K ■■ .■/ # -.vj- ■
M
!
UJ. • ••■:
' * '■■ * j * < *^ >
Whether you need only one or two lengths of
6" diameter pipe for home drainage, or 12"
diameter for a car entrance, or hundreds of
pipes from 4" to 72" for a complete drainage
system, Humes experts are there to advise,
assist and supply at extremely competitive
prices!
m
Il l lllil l S 111 111
43 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY. 8X4165
FACTORIES INi
Adomstown, Grafton, Harden, lUmare, Mart*,
Queanbeyan, Rydalmere, Tamworth.
to run the gullies into the
river, but some 60 miles back
in the hills there was a cloud-
burst, and the river did run,
stopping short of the station by
a mile or so. Soon, said the
boss, we start carting water.
Six miles to the nearest good
drinking-water with the big
truck and two tanks carrying
between them 500 gallons. The
stallion is being hand-fed, as
are two or three hacks. First
consignment of feed works out
at £65 landed cost. Pricey?
Sure.
Hurried preparations to move
2000 head of males to a
property (same ownership)
about 100 miles away. With
Christmas approaching stock-
men have eager thoughts of
home and beauty and beer; so
too, have drovers, even those
with horses in good enough
condition to take the job on.
They can name their own
price.
The camp is wholly occupied
in moving stock away from
dry dams to the permanent
watering - points. Another
scratch camp goes out to shift
some thousand head to the
river soak up channel from the
station, recently replenished by
the river s short canter.
Over all internal shuffles,
there looms the coming urgent
need to shift up to 4000 head
right away to agistment, if
there is any to be rented. Our
refuge in the past has been to
the east, but that is out now,
as the country there is worse
off than we are. Chances are
that relief country may be
found north of the Tick Line.
Not a simple solution, however,
for in that case cattle have to
be inoculated for red-water.
After inoculation, they can’t be
moved for six weeks.
What sort of shape cattle
would be in after a further six
weeks’ traipsing to and from
water and feed several miles
each way is a thought we hide
from one another. Then they
will be too poor to move, say,
30 miles to trucks, and no
surface-water left. That would
be a death-march.
December. The various
oracles around the holding have
all made their best guesses. All
the weather symptoms —clouds,
thunder, lightning, north winds,
red mornings, new moons, high
temperatures, storm - birds,
frogs croaking, ants shifting
eggs uphill, aching corns—have
been noted. The boss bets on
ibises ; ana no ibises yet. The
oldest inhabitant relies on
“Indigo,” who, we read, says:
“Rainfall probably poor in the
west and far south-west.”
Looks like greasing the swag-
straps. And to thipk that last
season we sold 3000 fats. Poor
outlook for meatworks and
meatworkers for next season.
Even the coastal butchers, 700
miles away, are inquiring for
meat, any meat. Such inquiries
have to be ignored as it wouid
be quite impracticable to
muster paddocks now just to
find five or six trucks of pass-
able beef, neglecting the
remaining stock for a week of
more.
It looks like the point of no
return. Then another irritating,
ineffective storm blows up. We
have had clouds in the sky for
weeks now. Distant thunder
and lightning crackles on the
phone-wires. One night it
rained off and on.
In the morning the rain-gauge
said 90 points. A few pools
about, rapidly drying up. No
running gullies. Still the boss
took the jeep for a quick look-
see. Back at four-o’clock for
late smoke-oh. Smiles. The 18-
mile creek ran a banker to the
river. That’s one pumper put
on the “stand-easy” list.
The telephone has gone hay-
wire again, so no news from
upriver. Radio - news just
enough to drive a man mad :
“Some airstrips closed, rain on
the coast,” no details.
So to dinner and all hurrying
to listen to the seven-o’clock
news-session. Just as the lady
asked me what pudding I
would like, a voice outside
roared — “The river’s coming
down.” Whacko! You little
beaut! It’s roaring, too. Says
the oldest inhabitant, “What
did I tell y’ ” . . .
Norque.
Russian-comfrey
“Van”: I agree with “Seven-
elms” (B. 5/2/’58) about the
palatability of Russian-com-
frey, and I have read that owing
to its high protein-content it
should be fed more in the
form of a concentrate.
“Sevenelms” asks why the
Department of Agriculture
should wish to find means of
eradicating comfrey. I
suppose, in one sense —as the
plant doesn’t spread by an
underground root-system, nor
seeds readily — it does seem
silly ; but there are reasons.
Comfrey could be a liability
in any cultivation-paddock.
You may say, “Why sow it
there?” But change of owner-
ship of a property could bring
about a situation where a pre-
vious owner had sown a culti-
vation-paddock with comfre'y
and the new owner didn’t want
it. Comfrey is a vigorous
grower for up to 20 years.
Then again, although I admit
it is unlikely, comfrey under
Australian conditions could
take on some unfavorable
characteristics. An Agricultural
Department has to play safe,
and consider all possibilities.
Therefore, it seems to me
logical that it should examine
means of safely and quickly
eradicating comfrey in the
event of it being called on to do
so. Probably the greatest
trouble from indiscriminate
sowing of the plant would come
in the hot, wet parts of Aus-
tralia because, as “Sevenelms”
and I know, comfrey needs
plenty of water, warmth and
fertiliser to give of its best.
“J.”: Russian - comfrey
doesn’t appear to be living-up
to the reputation that preceded
its introduction into Queens-
land about 12 months ago.
V. J. Wagner, chief agrono-
mist of the Queensland Depart-
ment of Agriculture and Stock,
said recently that comfrey still
has to prove its worth as a
fodder-plant. Yields for the
first 12 months were not out-
standing.
In small Agriculture Depart-
ment trial-plantings yields of
green material ranged from
only 14 to 16y tons to the
acre, depending on the variety.
Although it was a dry year,
the plots were given some
supplementary irrigation, and
reasonable growth was main-
tained. Under the same con-
ditions maize would have
produced a similar weight of
green material, and maize has
the advantage of being suitable
for mechanical handling.
In addition, two soil-borne
root-diseases are threatening to
wipe-out plantings in some
areas.
On the subject of the plant-
diseases, J. C. Johnson, plant
pathologist in the department,
said these have been identified
as bacterial wilt and sclerotium
rot. Bacterial wilt appeared to
be the more serious, but both
diseases were widespread.
Plants affected with bac-
terial wilt collapse sudde*ly.
The roots of the plant become


Best
Mineral
Supplement
V
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
I
OS
SH«
fl.O'**
*OH*
M
’D>u€ed(k.
STEfUUSED
BONE FLOUR
*5% TU-CALCIC PHOSPHAII
Any particulars gladly supplied —
Writ# (• DAYK GELATINE: G.P.O. Box 3563,
SYDNEY m G.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE *
G.P.Q. Bo* 712 F, ADELAIDE # G.P.O. Box 758 K,
BRISBANE # Box H. 588, C.P.0., PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
diseased, and this cuts off the
water-supply to the foliage.
The plants die-out completely.
Besides Russian - comfrey,
bacterial wilt affects tomatoes,
tobacco, potatoes, sunflowers,
zinnias and dahlias. If any of
these plants has _ previously
been grown in a field it would
be extremely unwise to plant
Russian-comfrey.
Sclerotium rot, which is a
fungus disease, is slower-acting
than bacterial wilt. Only part
of the plant dies at the one
time. The disease may be
accompanied by some yellow-
ing of the foliage.
Both disorders are strictly
warm-weather diseases, and
can be expected to cause less
trouble in the winter. Attacks
by both diseases are assisted by
disturbing the soil around the
plants. For that reason, any
interference with the plants,
either in cultivating or in
collecting planting material,
should be avoided during the
hot weather.
Johnson added that losses in
stands of Russian-comfrey
have been reported from the
Brisbane district and from
North Queensland.
Hot Weather
“Igloo”: Latest evidence of
the danger of overgrazing
pasture in hot weather comes
from Bartels of the Victorian
Department of Agriculture,
who has shown that soil-
temperatures on a hot day are
much higher where the ground
is bare than when it is covered
by 2in. of pasture —even when
the soil is moist.
In his experiments, bare, dry
soils were much hotter —
126deg. compared with 106deg.
at the surface, and 90deg.
compared to 84deg. 2in. down.
As moist soils were much
cooler, it was apparent that
evaporation played a big part
in keeping temperatures down.
Bartels’s excellent field-
demonstration follows New
Zealand laboratory-studies in
which perennial - ryegrass,
cocksfoot, white-clover and
sub.-clover grew much less in
cabinets at 9Gdeg. than when
the temperature was 70deg.
Schools for
Sheepmen
“Wimra”: That wool-class-
ing school (B. 5/2/’58) is not
Horsham (Vic.) Agricultural
Society’s only service to the
younger generation of Wim-
mera sheepmen. In 1946 this
society pioneered “learn to
shear” classes, for the first of
which 16 lads were accepted
from all parts of Victoria,
although no inter-State appli-
cants were taken — a restric-
tion that was later eased. In
the 13 classes already held, 220
youths have learned to shear
Six other shearing-schools have
since been established in Vic-
toria and New South Wales,
and last spring a request for
information came from Queens-
land, where it is proposed to
set up a similar school on the
southern tablelands.
Now Horsham Agricultural
Society, in conjunction with the
Victorian Department of Agri-
culture, has sponsored a school
of sheep-husbandry, to be held
this month on the property of
the society’s president, J
Russell, whose station, Melrose,
has a long and enviable record
of fine-wool production. A
similar school was also held at
Lismore (Vic.), February 17 to
21.
At these two schools experts
from the Agricultural Depart-
ment will, in talks, discussions
and demonstrations, impart to
selected young sheepmen —
Horsha'm’s class of 30 was
chosen from 44 applicants from
all parts of the Wimmera —the
latest findings on improved
pastures and other factors
known to increase wool- and
meat-production.
Wild Pigs
“Abdul”: People who know
no better often rush into print
to point out the thousands of
pounds running to waste in the
hordes of wild pigs which infest
our pastoral lands. Tens of
thousands of the brutes, each
taking its levy of weak sheep,
bogged cattle, and new-born
lambs.
Those people talk about the
delights of fresh pork, but
there’s not one decent chop in
all the mobs that run bush.
Wild pigs are uneatable, unless
a man is starving. Their
flesh has the taint of carrion,
A young pig, or a sucker,
caught in the bush and fattened
in the homestead sty, makes
admirable pork, but pork
Straight from the bush is no
good at all. As for fattening
an old wild sow, that’s a losing
proposition. They take twice
as long to fatten, and eat more
than twice as much as a
civilised sow. As for breeding
from them—that’s a losing pro-
position, too. The wild streak
runs the suckers ofF their legs,
and a man would get twice the
return from a proper pig. Wild
pigs have only two uses. One
is a bullet. The other is a
phosphorus - poison — arsenic
and strychnine are voided by
them with the same ease with
which a crow vomits a bait.
Animal Society
“Para”: WTiile sociologists
are sorting out the many facets
of human behavior, the atten-
tion of stock-managers is
directed to the pattern of living
adopted by animals.
For instance, consciously or
unconsciously, we have recog-
nised for a long time that sheep
like to feed into the wind ; that
they naturally form camps in
certain places; that they make
regular tracks which can be the
focal points of erosion; and
that they generally go to water
at regular times of the day.
Adjustment of management
to these practices can increase
efficiency greatly. New Zea-
landers and others have done a
lot of observing about when
and how often animals eat and
sleep, and the mechanical effects
of their hooves on the soil. Here
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(27/2/’58)
In Queensland, heavy rain and flooding are indicated
on the north coast, Peninsula and part of the central coast
during March, and there is a likelihood of a cyclone crossing
the Peninsula. With the exception of poor rainfall in the
west and far south-west, moderate to good rains should
occur elsewhere in the State during March.
Sunspot activity may give better rains than previously
indicated in N.S.W. during March, with the best falls
occurring on the coast. Heavy rains are indicated on the
coast during April, and these rains should be associated
with cyclonic disturbances and rough weather. Good
general rains should occur in June.
Most of Victoria should receive light rain during
March, and April should be a dry month throughout.
General rains should commence in May.'
Moderate rain is indicated in the lower north of South
Australia during April, with poor rainfall in the balance of
the State. Good rains should commence in the agricultural
areas during May.
Good rains are indicated in a large part of Western
Australia during March, and this may be associated with the
development of a willy-willy off the n.-w. coast in the latter
half of March. General rains also likely in April.
LENNOX WALKER.


CUT YOUR PASTURE
IMPROVEMENT
COST...
Convert that scarifier, tiller, Chisel plough, or
whatever cultivating implement you have into a
really efficient sowing and fertilizing unit with the
Howard general purpose Seed and Fertilizer Box.
Readily attaches to the rear of trucks, trailers, Land
Rovers, etc., and may be mounted directly on tractor,
3pt. linkage, for overseeding and top dressing.
Widths of sft. 3in, 6ft. sin., 7ft. 7in., each unit
complete with dropping tubes, acre-meter and
built in drive. Sod-seeding and drilling attachments
also available.
«* as m 1
■ :
A
Tiller Mounting
HOWWO
i+l*'
i."
•#*
Utility Mounting
3pt Linkage Mounting
For full particulars on the Howard general purpose
seed and fertilizer box, send coupon to your State
distributor listed below:
N.S.W. Britstand Distributors Ltd., 637 Gardeners Rd., Mascot.
Q'LD. A.S.A. Farm Machinery Pty. Ltd., 74-76 Eagle St., Brisbane.
VIC. E. Hassett & Sons Pty. Ltd., 626 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
W.A. Agricultural Parts Supply Co. Ltd., 234 Pier Street, Perth.
TAS. Max Geeves Pty. Ltd., 123 Murray Street, Hobart.
177 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
N.T. Nightcliffe Motors, Nightcliffe, Darwin.
N.Z. Dominion Motors Ltd., 59 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
S.A. Power Equipment ltd., 67 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
Sod Seeding with the
Chisel Plough
MR
OWARD
Am-euiT/mmmm
WINDSOR ROAD, NORTHMEAD, N.S.W.
POST THIS COUPON TO-DAY
HOWARD AUTO-CULTIVATORS PTY. LTD.,
WINDSOR ROAD, NORTHMEAD, N.S.W.
Please send me without obligation literature on the
Howard general purpose seed and fertilizer box.
Name
Address
in Australia, we have also
noticed the feeding habits of
certain animals.
As in human society, animals
have their bosses, bullies and
more timid members. This is
very noticeable in the dairy-
herd and sheep-flock. Unless
curbed, the bully cow is usually
better out of the way, although
dehorning usually brings about
greater quietness.
When handfeeding sheep,
from self-feeders and troughs
especially, it is very important
to make sure that each one
gets his fair share. During
droughts, it is very obvious that
the more timid sheep often
hang back until the stronger
ones have gorged ‘themselves.
This situation can be relieved
by providing ample trough-
space or by trailing the grain,
but it is much better to separate
the timid ones into a flock of
their own to make sure that
peace reigns and everyone gets
its share in the turmoil of
getting enough feed on which
to survive.
Unless this is done, the weak
get weaker until they die from
starvation in a paddock where
their needs have at least been
provided-for.


Women's Letter/
SYDNEY
Sydney’s social life is not at its gayest
at present, although committees are now
waking from their summer sleep and,
after rubbing their eyes a little, are
getting-on with the job of planning fun
and good works for the coming Season.
A few early-birds have already started
their functions; a few more have them
lined-up for the near future.
* ☆ ☆
The ladies’ committee working for
the Deaf and Blind Children (early-birds)
organised a luncheon at the Point Piper
home of Mrs. Sam Lands on Wednesday
—about 90 guests, luscious food (cooked
by the committee) and a parade of
fabulous furs. Modelling the furs were
Mrs. Del Aldritt, Diana Alexander, Pat
Cook and Mrs. Winifred Mawer.
Committee-president Mrs. Bill White
received the guests wearing a striking
dress of white patterned-taffeta with a
harem skirt and shoes of the same
material. Mrs. Lands, who wore a black-
and-white spotted dress with back-
draping, plans to go abroad for a pro-
longed visit. Her Point Piper home has
been bought by Dr. and Mrs. I. A.
Listwan.
☆ ☆, ☆
Mr. John Trevor, formerly a lecturer
in drama at the University of Otago and
now with the Elizabethan Trust, kept
his audience highly amused with tales of
Mrs. Patrick Campbell, Dame Sybil
Thorndike and other celebrities when he
addressed the Stage and Society Club
during the week. Miss Vera Lacey, presi-
dent of the British Ballet Organisation,
was the hostess, and a musical pro-
gramme was provided by Mary Blake
(who, by the way, is to go into the J. C.
Williamson’s Gilbert and Sullivan pro-
ductions as Buttercup in “Pinafore” and
Ruth in the “Pirates of Penzance”), Josef
Drewniak and John Mansfield.
☆ ☆ ☆
Everyone knows the Y.W.C.A. and
takes for granted the work that it does.
Few, however, stop to think how much
this work helps to prevent delinquency
among young people, and consequently
of its great value. The “Y” hopes to
extend its work further to the suburbs
in the near future, but, of course, that
takes a great deal of money ; and it is to
garner-in some of this necessary com-
modity that a Button Day is to be held
on May 30. At a meeting held at Sydney
headquarters during the week Mrs.
Russell Anderson (“The ‘Y’s’ most satis-
fied customer,” as she calls herself, and
certainly a good advertisement for the
“Y”), who was in the chair, said that as
well as buttons a useful little novelty
would be sold on that day—what it is
you must wait for May 30 to find out.
* ☆ ☆
To carry on the spirit of the Queen
Mother’s visit when she showed so
marked a preference for blue and white,
the theme of the Mater Misericordiae
Hospital Ball this year is to be those
colors, and there will be prizes for the
prettiest dresses. Mrs. Tom Bateman is
again president of the committee, for
which the wives of the Service chiefs,
Mrs. R. G. Pollard, Mrs. D. Harries and
Mrs. D. Candy, are among the vice-
presidents. The Governor and Lady
Woodward will be guests-of-honor at
the ball, which is to be held at the
Trocadero on June 11.
☆ ☆
In Japan one never buys flowers in a
shop, Mrs. C. Thompson told members of
the Garden Club during the week when
she spoke on Flower Arrangement in
Japan. One chooses a bloom or two
from trolleys which are wheeled round
from house to house by Japanese
women, and they cost next to nothing.
However, in Japan it is not the flower
or the color that counts in an arrange-
ment, but the form. Mrs. Thompson,
who spent two years at Kure Naval Base,
where her husband was stationed, made
delicate arrangements to illustrate her
talk, of simple things—a branch of
pittosporum, the yellow seeds of the date-
palm, yellow daisies and a spray of
frangipani.
☆ ☆ ☆
Apropos of flower-arrangements, a
particularly interesting show is being
organised in aid of the Ashfield Infants’
Home for Friday, April 11. Madame
Seki, wife of the Japanese Consul-
General, will decorate a “room” in
the Japanese manner, and there
will be rooms in Chinese style, in modern
style and in period style. Mr. Bruce
Arnott, the only man to take a hand on
this occasion, will do an arrangement of
dried-flowers, and others decorating tables
include Mrs. Victor Maxwell (an after-
theatre-supper table), Mrs. Alan Manning,
Mrs. R. T. Lamble, Mrs. Arnold Hirst
and Mrs. John Charley.
☆ ☆ *
“Getting the washing dry” is quite a
feature of Sydney life these days. A
family will seem to be settled quite
quietly in the sitting-room when some-
one will say “It’s raining! Quick, the
washing!” Then everyone dashes out
and in a competitive frenzy grabs the
nearly-dry clothes off the line, returning
breathless and triumphant to the house.
Half-an-hour later, when the sun is
shining again, Mother is seen putting
the clothes out —alone. Pegging-out the
washing has none of the drama and excite-
ment of getting it in against odds.
Sydney’s milk-bars seem to be quietly
disappearing. In their place are “Orange-
spots,” “Fruit-cocktail bars,” “Pineapple-
crush bars” and “Fruit-salad bars.” These
have all been doing wonderful business
during the humid weather, and their
modern decor has brightened a few points
in the city. Of course the coffee-spots,
whether espresso or otherwise, are already
well established. These, too, are decorated
in the modern manner with cacti and
philodendrons sprinkled in among the
coffee-quaffers. All these places seem to
subscribe to the “standee” trend in Sydney
life. Seats are generally provided for
only about 20 per cent, of the customers ;
the others apparently are content to grab
a drink, toss it off and continue on their
way without taking the time to sit down,
or even expect to do so.
Cynthia Yeomans (pictured), daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Tom Yeomans, of
Bulolo, Vaucluse, in May will marry
Geoff Nolan, second son of Mr. and Mrs.
T. N. Nolan, of Rose Bay, at Scots’
College Chapel. Cynthia has recently
returned from a trip to Canada and the
U. (Norton Trevaire photo)
The Elizabethan Theatre Ball Com-
mittee has a new president this year. She
is Mrs. K. H. Hill, who proved herself
such a good organiser of functions in
aid of the ball last year. Her deputy-
president is Mrs. Norman Jenkyn, with
Mrs. Hans Tronser and Mrs. Jim Cohen
as secretaries. Mrs. H. C. Coombs is
again treasurer, with Mrs. A. A. Alam as
her associate.
☆ ☆ ☆
Soprano Valerie Collins, of Yarram
(Vic.), has signed a contract to be
principal lyric-soprano with the Opera
House at Coblenz, Germany, for the
1958-59 season. Valerie left Australia
last year after winning the 1956 Shell
Aria at the Canberra eisteddfod, to
further her studies in Vienna. For the
past eight months she has been studying


operatic scores with Professor Nordberg
of the Vienna Academy, and stage roles
with producer Meinert of the Vienna
State Qpera House. Her repertoire for the
season at Coblenz will include the lead-
ing roles in “Manon,” “Martha” and “The
Bartered Bride.” She is the daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. J. S. Collins, of Yarram.
MELIBOURNE
Victoria will remember the Queen
Mother as a radiant and friendly woman
whose smile was warm and all-embracing.
Her charm was never more in evidence
than when she met 1000 women represen-
ting many organisations, for morning
tea at St. Kilda Town Hall. In the foyer,
four-year-old Catherine Cocks (wearing a
Stuart-tartan sash with her white frock)
and four-year-old Jamie Watson (sporting
a kilt in the same tartan) presented the
bouquet. Pink flowers were printed on the
filmy white chiffon frock worn by her
Majesty, and the pink was repeated in
her head-hugging hat of petals, misted,
with veiling. With her gift-brooch she
wore a three-strand pearl necklace and
diamond earrings.
Mrs. Bolte, wife of the Premier,
received the Queen Mother and presented
her to the Mayor and Mayoress of St.
Kilda (Cr. and Mrs. A. C. Watson).
Members of the reception-committee
were presented in turn: Mrs. A. E.
Shepherd (wife of the Leader of the
Opposition), Lady Paton, Mrs. Frank
Woods (wife of Archbishop Woods), Mrs.
Gladys Hain, Dame Mary Daly and Mrs.
Eccles Mac Kay.
u # u-
For the ball given by the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. F. W.
Thomas) and the city councillors in honor
of the Queen Mother the Town Hall
decor took the form of a scene of gum-
tree-studded paddocks, extending to a
range of blue hills, and a clever lighting-
scheme gave the illusion of mist shroud-
ing the hills and sunshine flooding
valleys and plains. Against that back-
ground her Majesty stood out in a
magnificent Hartnell crinoline gown of
white tulle which sparkled with iridescent
blue, pink and green stones worked into
a flower-design. On the blue Garter
ribbon were diamond-studded family
Orders and diamond brooches, and she
wore a high diamond tiara, a diamond-
and-emerald necklace, and pendant
diamond earrings.
The youthful Lady Mayoress wore a
stunning gown of white satin, which had
an off-shoulder bodice and a crinoline
skirt caught up in a harem-hemline out-
lined with white velvet daisies, the centres
and petals of which were embroidered
with iridescent thread. Lady Brooks’s
gown was of stiffened white satin, the
bodice heavily beaded, with the beading
extending to the very full skirt. Mrs.
Henry Bolte was elegant in hydrangea
satin. The Queen Mother danced four
times: with the Governor, the Lord
Mayor, the C.O. of the Royal Melbourne
Regiment (Lieut.-Col. Swan) and Vice-
Admiral Sir Roy Dowling.
v # #
Melbourne Grammar School choir-
boys sang the service when Judith
Lorraine, eldest daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Keith Campbell of Willow-Bank,
Broadmeadows West, was married in the
school chapel to Charles Tim Gerrard
Tarbart. With her gown of white
duchesse-satin, the graceful skirt of
which fell into a train, the bride carried
a trail of white cyclamens and gardenias.
The fingertip tulle veil was held with a
pearl tiara. Three pretty girls were in
attendance: Robin Patterson, Mary-Ann
Sunners and the bride’s sister Diana.
Their full-length princess-frocks of white
silk-taffeta featured pearl-embroidery on
the bodice. In their hair were circlets
of pink rosebuds to match the trails of
roses they carried. The bridegroom, who
is the eldest son of Mr. and Mrs. I. C.
Tarbart of Kurweeton, Camperdown, had
his cousin Rob Joyce as best man ; Rob
Gardiner and the bridegroom’s brother
Tony were groomsmen. Reception was
at the New Alexandra.
Shani Wallis, 24-year-old actress from
the U.S., will play the part of Ella Peter-
son in “The Bells Are Ringing,” which
opens at the Princess Theatre on April 5.
Shani, who has done extensive musi-
comedy work on the English stage and
appeared in the film “A King in New
York” with Charles Chaplin, seeks relaxa-
tion from stage-work in tennis, designing
frocks, riding and roller-skating. Photo
by W. Newton (London).
Noted at the premiere of “Time
Remembered” at the Princess Theatre,
starring Margaret Rutherford: Mrs.
Garnet Carroll, who wore a short sheath-
frock in natural linen and a silk-organdie
theatre-coat in the same tonings; Lady
Grimwade, whose short frock of black
lace gained contrast from a brilliant-green
stole ; Lady Paton, her choice a short blue
satin frock embossed with black velvet;
Mrs. M. Sallmann, whose very smart
ensemble consisted of a cream lace frock,
cut on sheath-lines, and a copper-toned,
silk-taffeta coat; and Mrs. A. T. Smithers,
whose short frock of grey organza had
rosettes of matching lace on the full
skirt, which was finished with a deep-
pleated flounce.
☆ ☆ ☆
The engagement has been announced
of Janet, daughter of Dr. R. Fairley of
Corowa (N.S.W.) and the late Mrs.
Fairley, to Maurice, younger son of Mr.
and Mrs. Bruce Mead, of Glen Waverley.
Janet’s ring is a diamond solitaire with
diamond shoulders. No immediate plans
have been made for the wedding.
V V V
Wearing colorful national dress, Asian
students formed a guard-of-honor for
the Governor and Lady Brooks when
their Excellencies attended a preview of
the film “I Accuse” at the Metro
Theatre. This premiere was arranged by
the women’s group of the Australian*
Asian Association, and proceeds (£2000)
will send a social worker from this
country to Thailand, where she will train
a group of Thai women and girls. Sif
Charles Lowe (president of the associa*
tion), with Lady Lowe, received the
official guests, among whom were Lieut.*
Governor Sir Edmund Herring and Lady
Herring, the Premier and Mrs. Henry
Bolte, the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. F. W. Thomas),
and ambassadors and official representa*
lives of various Asian countries.
Mrs. John Chaldjian (chairman of the
women’s group) was present with her
husband, and others seen later at the
chicken-sandwich-and-champagne supper
were Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Nott, Mrs. E.
Kirwan, Mr. and Mrs. D. Elder (their
daughter Pru was one of the programme-
sellers), Mrs. John Casson, Mary and
Jane Lewis, Sir Rupert and Lady Clarke,
Mr. and Mrs. M. Sloman, and Mrs. Leo
Curtis and her sister Mrs. Bill McGowan.
V J* V
Over 200 guests were present at the
Dorchester for the dinner-dance which
.aided the Victorian Society for Spastic
Children. Organising - committee
president Mrs. Lionel Grimwade, attrac-
tive a sheath-frock of powder-blue
guipure-lace, received the guests, assisted
by Gillian Pain (public-relations officer
for the society), whose full-skirted gown
was of midnight-blue shot-taffeta.
Amanda Larrett and Virginia Davenport
were ticket-secretaries. Among the guests
were Marsha Turnbull (Hobart), wearing
a short sheath-frock of scarlet faille;
Mrs. Peter Grimwade, whose full long
gown of black organza was embroidered
with a large white spot; Mrs. Ivan Guest,
her frock made from an ice-blue sari
embroidered in gold; Mrs. Bill Gluth,
whose black Chantilly-lace frock featured
a peacock hemline ; and Mrs. Peter Grant
Hay, who wore white polished-cotton
patterned in orange flowers.


The coat
By PAL CLEARY
IN the light from Thompson’s
milk - bar young Joey
Beckett, the wharfie’s son,
was showing a few of the
fellows how he thought you
should* land a right-cross to the
chin.
“Lead at me with the left,
only don’t do it too fast,” he
invited Jack Pearce, who was
four inches taller.
The light shone on Joey’s
earnest face as he tilted his
head back, getting set. “Come
on, what's the matter?” he
said, and then he heard his
mother calling from the other
side of the street:
“Joey, come here a minute.”
“Does your mother know
you’re out?” Jack Pearce
mocked him as they all looked
over at the neat, large-boned
woman who was standing near
the street-light.
“What do you want?” Joey
called to her. But when he saw
how serious she looked he
crossed over.
“What is it, Mum?” he
asked.
“Come to the shop with me,
son.
She couldn’t get used to the
notion that he had grown up:
he was her eldest child, and
year after year she had been
asking him to walk to the shop
with her, especially late in the
winter afternoons when his
father was out on a job.
“Look,” Joey said, “I Was
just showing the boys some-
thing. Do you really want me
to go?”
“Come along, son,” she
coaxed him. “I’m buying some-
thing I want you to look at with
me.”
“What?”
“I’m getting a new coat.”
“Wouldn’t Dad go with you,
Mum?”
“He wouldn’t look at it; you
know he wouldn’t,” she said
as she took his arm.
It was the feel of her hand
on his arm, urgent and eager,
that compelled him to go with
her. As they went along the
street, saying nothing more,
she looked straight ahead,
almost grimly. At first he
thought she was watching the
small puddles on the footpath
left by a light fall of rain. But
when they got as far as the
corner and still she <|idn’t speak
he knew she was uneasy.
She strode up the road as if
she knew exactly the shop she
was going to. They passed
three or four frock-shops.
They went on another street
further till they came to
Mellick’s Mode Salon, a small
bright shop with a window-
display of coats, all tagged
with red-and-blue special-sale
tickets.
r T I HE bald-headed Jewish pro-
prietor bowed to them with
a familiar and cajoling smile.
“Well, here we are,” he said.
“I’m Mrs. Beckett. Do you
remember?” she answered
rather jerkily.
“Of course, of course,” he
said. “Is this your boy?”
He led them to a grey wicker
chair, and when they sat
together solemnly, watching the
proprietor heading for a show-
case at the back of the shop,
Joey grew uneasy because he
could see that his mother was
nervous. Her hands clutched
her purse ; her body was held
stiff: as the man came toward
them carrying the coat, she got
up with a cracked, artificial
sffiile.
“I just wanted to take
another look at it,” she said.
Joey wanted to nudge her,
to beg her to be like herself.
When his mother was shopping
in the neighborhood shops she
was brisk, confident and
dominating ; no salesman ever
had a chance to patronise her.
But you could see now that she
felt insecure and humble. The
smiling, soothing, bald-headed
man, holding the coat out to
her, knew it, too. Joey glared
at him sullenly.
“Isn’t it beautiful! I knew
you admired it,” the proprietor
said. The coat was of dark-
grey cloth and with light-grey
fur at the cuffs and it had a
thick fur collar. He spread it
out over his arm with a
gorgeous sweep.
He helped Mrs. Beckett take
off her plain blue coat and
tossed it over the back of the
chair. In her best frock she
waited,, deadly serious. The
new coat was slipped over her
shoulders. The proprietor made
a few fancy motions with his
hands around the collar; then
stepped back suddenly and
beamed.
“There, now, there,” he said.
As she turned to Joey, finger-
ing the coat as if she couldn’t
get used to the hang of it on
her shoulders, she had that
cracked artificial smile, but
there was wonderful eagerness
in her eyes.
“How do you like it, son?”
she asked.
CJHE began to walk up and
down in front of the
mirrors, swinging her body like
a girl and holding the fur collar
high up over one side of her
face like a swell-looking woman
in a fashion-magazine ; and as
Joey watched her, wondering
and puzzled, he suddenly
realised that this was the first
time he had ever seen his
mother in a shop-coat.
She had made her own
clothes. Many a night when
he had come in from playing
on the streets he had seen her
sitting at the table in the living-
room, stitching, and sometimes
taking her glasses off and
rubbing the tips of her fingers
over her eyelids. She had often
asked him how a frock was
going to look. But now he saw
that those things she had made,
compared with this beautiful
grey coat, were hardly more
than strips of cloth to wrap
around her and keep her warm.
“Why, gee, Mum, it’s
terrific,” he whispered.
“Do you really like it, son?
I want you to take a good look
at it.”
Again she walked up and
down in front of those mirrors,
pretending to be just looking
at herself, but Joey knew she
was trying to settle some
problem.
Turning, she said, “Will I
take it, Joey?”
She was looking into
his eyes.
“Sure, take it,” he said.
THE GILDED LOAFERS
The gilded loafers having this day dismantled
Machinery of the ruled hours to stroll
For their soul’s good at ease and s^ndy-sandalled,
Startling their jaded skins with cold sea-shock,
Envy the wings, the weightless cut of the gull
As he glides to the crabby grounds, the ebbtide rock.
And that is why, golden with pelts of sand
The loafers raid hot blackberries and fill
Dry mouths with some fruit free of the mind’s command;
Or having rinsed their billies in bright streams
Of plaited weeds and diamonds, and now cool
With salad picnics, turn to dark-goggled dreams,
Stretching, flybitten, unread books beside:
They hear the moving strings of the blue harp tell
What any shell has learnt in the masterless tide;
They lie in that moment beached on a naked truth,
Unclose their eyes and darkly know what spell
Wind, sun and sea wove in the world’s youth.
And later when the spread rug’s shaken free
Of plumstones, cherry-pips and sand, the soul
Put on its lead at the town’s periphery—
They are homeward now, loafers no longer, but even
As divine St. John, angel-struck in his cell,
Dazzled so they had looked through earth’s eye into
heaven.
N.Z.
Gloria Rawlinson.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
IA
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
The fair has been organised
by Charles Swyer, who man-
aged Church Stores, an
Anglican trading company in
Sydney, before he went into the
Army during the war.
Since his discharge he has
conducted the Made in Aus-
tralia campaign for the Vic-
torian chamber. It is a con-
tinuing show in Victoria, with
special campaigns in the
country as well as an annual
State-wide Week.
Victorian efforts to promote
Australian manufactures are
far ahead of the other States,
probably because it was always
a Protectionist State, and it has
leaped ahead as a manufactur-
ing-centre with the development
of the State Electricity Com-
mission.
Although they indicate a
State outlook in some respects,
in contrast with what the Vic-
torian chamber attempts to
make national, protagonists of
the Victorian fair believe that
the best jobs in promoting
secondary industry outside Vic-
toria are accomplished in
Adelaide and Brisbane.
They looked at each other till
he smiled suddenly.
“All right, I’ll lake it,” she
said.
“Why, you couldn’t do any-
thing else, madam,” the pro-
prietor said, his arms wide.
“Now, where’s my purse?”
she said, though she had been
holding it tight in her hand
all the time. Opening the purse
she took out a very old and
shiny note-fold. She counted
out the pounds slowly as if
she didn’t know how much was
in the roll, although she, herself,
Joey, and the smiling salesman
knew there wouldn’t be a
pound more than the coat-
price there. “Is that right?”
she said.
“Exactly. Are you going to
wear the coat?”
“Well. . . ” she said, startled
and holding the coat open. “If
it starts to rain again. . .”
“Not tonight, madam. Look
at that light on the street.”
The three of them went to
the window and looked out.
“See, what did I tell you?”
the proprietor said.
“Come on ; wear it, Mum,”
Joey urged her.
Just a moment longer she
hesitated.
“All right,” she said, firmly.
“I’ll wear it. Put my old coat
in a box, please.”
{AN the way home Joey
carried the old coat while
she walked very straight beside
him, holding his arm. It seemed
to him that she held her head
a little differently, and that an
elderly man and a fat woman
passing by turned and Jooked
at them.
“If only your father likes it
—if only he doesn’t say any-
thing,” she said.
They began to share a strange
sense of guilt and expectation.
But it was hard for Joey to keep
on thinking of his father ; the
bunch of boys in front of
Thompson’s milk-bar gaped at
his mother and he felt proud
—these neighborhood - boys
came from poor families ; their
mothers and sisters, rarely got
a coat like the one Mrs. Beckett
was wearing. They opened up
and made a little path for her
and Joey on the footpath.
“Good-night, Mrs. Beckett,
hullo, Mrs. Beckett,” they said.
Their voices sounded respectful
and wondering.
But when they were on the
step of their own place his
mother said, “Maybe your
father won’t say anything.
Maybe he’ll like it.”
“You’ll knock his eye out.
Just wait.”
“I don’t know,” she said. Her
hand was trembling as she
fumbled with the key in the
lock.
She let Joey go out ahead
of her to the living-room, his
eyes bright, a big grin on his
face.
TTIS two young sisters were
playing snakes-and-ladders
at the little table by the window.
And in the corner, in the worn
overstuffed chair, his father was
sitting reading the paper, his
grey hair and his glasses show-
ing above the edge of the open
newspaper.
“Where’s . your mother,
Joey?” his father said, putting
down the paper. He had the
face of a man who was not
quite beaten, but who hardly
dared to think that anything
could happen to enrich their
lives.
“She’s here. I was”
Joey began.
“I’m here,” she called from
the hall.
But she didn’t come in at
once. This made them all turn
and look at the hall door. Then
she came in slowly, that un-
easy, nervous smile making her
look like a shy girl. She came
right into the room, making the
coat sway a little as she had
done before the mirrors in
the shop.
His father got up slowly, the
paper gripped tight in one
hand, the blood all gone from
his face.
“How do you like it, Mat?”
she asked.
“You —you bought it?” he
said, staring at her.
“Yes.”
“What with?”
“I saved for it.”
Suddenly he threw the paper
at the chair.
“You must be mad,” he
shouted, and rushed out of the
room.
npHE mother and children
stared at each other. They
heard him draw out a chair at
the end of the kitchen table.
The two little girls looked at
their mother miserably and
rushed over to her, ready to
cry.
“Never mind, Mum,” Joey
said.
She looked at him with the
desperate eagerness still in her
eyes. She walked through to the
kitchen followed by Joey and
the two girls.
Their father was sitting at the
table with his arms folded
across his chest. One of his
fingers was rubbing the sugar-
basin ; and he was staring at
the floor.
“Don’t you want me to keep
it?” she said gently.
“I think you must be out of
your head,” he said.
“Mat,” she said quietly. “I
haven’t had a coat for fifteen
years.”
“You’ve been nursing this
idea along?”
“Yes.”
“And what’ll people think of
us with you going around With
a coat like that?”
“I don’t care.”
“What’ll they think of me ?
Where’ll they think I got the
money to buy a coat like that?”
He seemed frightened; he
frightened them all; he had
been poor so long he was scared
of even the appearance of well-
being.
“Mat, year after year I’ve
made my own coats, but I’ve
always hoped. . . I’ve saved a
bit of money here and there. . .
You've never missed it. You’d
never been able to manage at
all if I hadn’t done it for
you. . .” She could go no
further. “All right,” she said.
“That’s the end of it.”
Her eyes were dead now.
Slipping the coat off she let it
sag over the back of a kitchen
chair. They all looked at it
silently as if it were something
shameful and profligate.
“There it is,” she said.
“What’ll /do with it? Don’t
leave it there.”
“Take it back —I don’t care,”
she said. Then she brushed past
the children with her long
stride ; they heard her going
into the bedroom ; they heard
her throwing herself on the bed.
T}ATHER and children stared
-*• at the coat. It saved them
looking at each other.
“You got it wrong. Dad,”
Joey said timidly.
“Got what wrong?” his
father asked.
“About how it looks to
people. Why, gee, coming up
the street —the boys at the
corner”
“Shut up,” his father said,
his chin cupped in his hand,
his elbow on the table.
Breathlessly Joey and the
children waited. After a long
time their father sighed. He
turned slowly, looking earnestly
into each of their faces. And
then as he sighed he seemed
puzzled.
He picked up the coat.
“Flo, Flo,” he called to his
wife.
When she didn’t come he
turned to Joey, fumbling a
little, almost humble.
“Take the coat to your
mother, son,” he said.
Joey took the coat.
His father’s voice grew
urgent: “I want her to keep it
—tell her we all want her to
keep it,” he said.
He seemed to be telling them
to remember that with the coat
in the house things could
happen, things could change.
“She looked nice coming in
the door, didn’t she?” he said.


Polynesian wife in the shade of some
great Spanish-colonial ruin of coral.
The booklets are so charmingly
produced on the whole that it seems
worth while to note a couple of typo-
graphical errors (on page 9 of “The
Violin, the Banjo and the Bones” and
page 12 of “Three Street Ballads”);
and also that the decorations by Ron
Edwards have hardly the fineness of
touch that would be most appropriate:
what is needed, for perfection, is
something of the quality of Lioftel
Lindsay’s woodcuts.
The Melbourne Scene
Handsomely produced by the Mel-
bourne University Press. The Mel-
bourne Scene purports to be a history
of the southern city from its first
beginnings under Batman to its
apotheosis as the Olympic City in 1957,
which, in the eyes of its authors, James
Grant and Geoffrey Searle. is
apparently the most transcendent peak
a.respectable metropolis can attain.
It is rather a dull work —such works
usually are, and it is difficult to see
how they could be other. If there are
any bright spots in it they are contained
in the quotations from official
reports, magistrates’ judgments and
contemporary comments. The discus-
sion between Ned Kelly and the judge
who condemned him is altogether
charming, and the demand of “The
Bulletin” that Victoria should be
declared an infected province until it
had been purged of its immoral poli-
ticians and the land-boomers who had
kept out of jail gives the volume a
needed touch of humor.
George Gordon McCrae’s description
of the public execution of three bush-
rangers is worth quoting:—
First came the cart with three men
seated on their three coffins—
smoking their pipes—a priest or
clergyman with his book in his hand
along with them, immediately behind
the cart strode Jack Ketch, pipe in
mouth and a sack over one
shoulder ; then a few policemen, the
procession growing bigger by degrees
- as the cart creaked slowly on its
way. Some time after I witnessed
the return of the cart and the guard ;
for the procession, apparently no
longer interested, had dispersed and
melted away ; but here we had Mr.
Ketch again with his bag, this time
riding in the cart and smoking con-
tentedly. The bag was now filled
with the clothes and boots of his
late charges, which, if not actually
bequeathed to him, were, in any
case, his true and lawful perquisites.
All the familiar facts are given—the
gold-boom, the gold-bust, the land-
boom and the land-bust, the bank-
boom and the bank-bust, the sudden
rise of industrialisation during the
First World War and the enormous
boost that was given to it in the
second.
The authors print a contemporary
description of the early sewerage-system
of the city which is almost too vivid,
but they say nothing of the steady
denaturing of the Yarra, which was
once a stream which moved even the
practically-minded Batman to ecstatic
comment and which now looks like
the town drain. They say nothing about
the bridges which, no doubt for
economic reasons, were built so low
that nothing bigger than a dinghy
could pass beneath them, so that a
river which, if it were in Europe,
would be teeming with traffic, looks
as lonely, useless and deserted as a
billabong in the Never Never. They
say nothing about the earnest activities
of the bayside councils which have
turned the lovely beaches into concrete
horrors, nor. apparently, have they
noticed the wholesale destruction of
scores and scores of beautiful build-
ings and their replacement by glass-
fronted butterboxes like the new
Wilson Hall.
M. G. S.
Otago Gold
It seems a little unkind in H. A.
Glasson to remark, in the preface to
his The Golden Cobweb (Otago “Daily
Times”), that the history of the Otago
goldfields makes a thrilling story
“which leaves fiction a feeble thing
indeed”; but no doubt he said that
long before he knew that Ruth Park
was going to write a novel about those
very goldfields.
Although Miss Park’s “One-a-
pecker Two-a-pecker” was far from
“feeble,” it did. amongst all its romantic
goings-on, leave one a little curious as
to what life on the diggings really was
like; and this is the sort of informa-
tion which Glasson’s history, drawn
from early files of the Otago “Witness”
and “Daily Times,” would naturally be
expected to supply. In part it does; and
in part it does not: and it remains a
fact which Miss Park and all other
historical novelists may rejoice over,
that on the whole you learn more of
the floods and the great snow of 1863
from “One-a-pecker Two-a-pecker”
than you do from this factual history.
Glasson’s style is wordy and
journalistic. He has missed the oppor-
tunity of quoting extensively from con-
temporary records, which is always
the best way to bring a period to life.
He is content to record facts and
figures of drownings, .avalanches and
the like without much attempt to paint
the scene.
He often cuts his information
disappointingly short. For instance, if
the Tuapeka field was really discovered
by Black Peter, “a native of Bombay,”
what was Peter’s story and what was
he doing in Otago? And if there were
two other reports of meetings with a
moa, besides the one which Glasson
quotes, what did these other reports
say on so fascinating a subject, and
what happened when the third party
set out to capture the bird they swore
they had seen?
And finally, when he gets away
from precise and verifiable facts,
Glasson’s history is at times rather
shaky. What evidence has he, for
example, to support his allegations
that Bully Hayes may have been
mixed-up with a claim-jumping
gang in Otago and that Hayes, when
what appears to have been a yachting
accident occurred at Croixelles Bay,
near Nelson, deliberately drowned no
fewer than four people —“Rosa Buck-
ingham (Hayes’s wife as far as the
public knew), their thirteen-months-
old child, a servant girl aged fifteen
years, and a brother of Rosa’s.” And
what evidence: is there for the extra-
ordinary story that Hayes had had one
of his ears sliced off, for cheating at
cards in California?
However, with all its faults, the book
does supply a lot of colorful and
obviously authentic information on
those wild and dangerous days. This
reviewer particularly liked the biting
Irishman, O’Connor, who stole a
barrel of brandy, “and had been
brought up a week before for biting
and wounding a man. He had attempted
to bite the police after his arrest.”
Then, showing how repeated floods,
washing down the debris from the
mines, have buried the old fields, there
is the story of how the hydraulic
sluicing operations in 1938, near
Arrowtown, “brought to light, some
35ft. down in the gravel, two huts, their
respective frypans and cooking equip-
ment still inside the crushed and
rotten dwellings”; and, especially in
the fatal year of 1863, when the
greatest of these floods occurred,
followed by the greatest of the snows,
there are many tragic anecdotes of
drownings in the narrow gorges and
deaths in the mountain-passes.
Harriette Wilson
If the art of biography is to catch
the hero off-guard, who ever had a
better chance of writing great biography
than Harriette Wilson? She was the
most celebrated courtesan of the
Regency, the mistress of Frederick
Lamb. Lord Ponsonby and the Duke
of Wellington, and, closely acquainted
at least with the rest of the wits, rakes,
notabilities and heroes of the day,
wrote her memoirs partly for fun,


Uhc Philadelphian
by Richard Powell
Two weeks after publication “THE PHILADELPHIAN” rocketed to a
“runaway best-seller” in the U.S.A.
Obtainable from all Booksellers and Department Stores.
Retail price in Australia 20/-.
Hodder & Stoughton, Ltd.
partly for money and partly for black-
mail. on the understanding that
anybody who didn’t want to be
mentioned in them could buy his way
out.
And certainly Harriette did write,
if not a great autobiography, at any
rate a most diverting one; and her
memoirs, newly reprinted by Gryphon
Books, Ltd., under the title The Game
of Hearts, with a long introduction by
Lesley Blanch, are crowded with
anecdotes which have been a goldmine
for biographers and historians seeking
the full picture of the period. Thus if
Tennyson gives us one view of
Wellington:—
Mourn, for to us he seems the last,
Remembering all his greatness in the
Past.
No more in soldier fashion will he
greet
With lifted hand the gazer in the
street.
O friends, our chief state-oracle is
mute:
Mourn for the man of long-enduring
blood,
The statesman-warrior, moderate,
resolute,
Whole in himself, a common
good . . .
it is as rewarding as it is amusing to
take another view with Harriette and
to see the great Duke, fresh from the
Peninsula, thundering at her door on
the very night of his return, only to be
frustrated by the Duke of Argyle, who
put on one of Harriette’s nightcaps and
pretended to be her duenna: —
“Come down, I say,” roared this
modern Blue Beard, “and don’t keep
me here in the rain, you old
blockhead.”
“Sir,” answered Argyle, in a shrill
voice, “you must please to call out
your name or I don’t dare to come
down, robberies are so frequent in
London just at this season...
Wellington took off his hat, and
held up, towards the lamp, a visage
which late fatigue and present vexa-
tion had rendered no bad representa-
tion of that of the knight of the
woeful figure. While the rain was
trickling down his nose, his voice,
trembling with rage and impatience,
cried out, “You old idiot, do you
know me now?”
It is the greatness of Pepys and
Boswell that, whether they are writing
about themselves or their contempor-
aries, they manage to set down the
whole man, his dignity as well as his
follies; and this is where Harriette
misses. Ridiculous as she makes the
old Duke, the victory in the end was
his: “Publish and be damned!” he said
when everybody else was scurrying to
buy themselves out of her memoirs.
But it would be asking a great deal
of Harriette that she should equal
Pepys and Boswell. The remarkable
thing is that, being what she was, she
wrote so well; and so, of course, she
must have been, as Lesley Blanch
insists, quite a remarkable woman:
valued by the men of her time for her
wit and her intelligence as well as for
an escape from the marriage of
convenience.
Her memoirs, if always scandalous,
are never salacious; and her malice-
even perhaps in her prolonged feud
with her sister Amy —-is always offset,
at least at this distance in time, by her
delightfully impish gaiety. The tone,
and often the style, are very much
like that of “Tristram Shandy”; and
anyone who has a proper regard for
Sterne will also, as so many great men
have done before him, make a most
respectful bow to Harriette.
Reviewed Briefly
Poems: 1943-1956: Richard Wilbur
(Faber). Here Fabers continue their
policy of presenting American poetry
to English readers; and in Richard
Wilbur (born in 1921) they have a
writer worth knowing. He is techni-
cally adroit and various; clear; shrewd
in thought and language; and. very
often, amusing: it is not everyone who
can write a good poem on a potato.
Some of his poems on paintings will
remind Australian readers of Rose-
mary Dobson: with the difference that
there is a typically American humor
in the end of “A Dutch Courtyard”: —
Consumed with greedy ire,
Old Andrew Mellon glowered at
this Dutch
Courtyard, until it bothered him so
much
He bought the thing entire.
* * * *
The Young Life: Leo Townsend
(Cape). Frankly sets out to show how
public sympathy for youthful delin-
quents can end in tragedy both for the
aggressor, whose sense of responsibility
is stunted, and for the victim, whose
wrongs are imperfectly appreciated.
Fourteen-year-old Jackie Watson,
who has been assaulted by young
hoodlums, finds herself almost an
outcast, and one setback after
another contributes to the ruin of her
life. Meanwhile Dannie Lennox, the
chief offender, learns to despise
authority for its softness and comes
to an equally unhappy end. A
convincingly written piece of special
pleading.
* * * *
War in the Blood: Salvador de
Madariaga (Collins). A sequel to
“The Heart of Jade,” in which an
Aztec princess of the family of Monte-
zuma marries the conquering Spaniard,
Don Alonzo, companion of Cortes.
This is the story of their son Rodrigo,
whose divided allegiance to two
differing cultures and religions creates
strong tensions jmd leads to a tragic
climax. Built' mainly on a curt
dialogue, the book lacks solidity,
except in those patches which deal with
the secret practices of the Aztec
religion and with the battle between
Rodrigo’s revulsion from the idea of
human sacrifice and the fascination the
actual rite has for him.
* * * *
Bread Rather Than Blossoms: J. D.
Enright (Seeker and Warburg). These
poems were written while the author
was teaching in a Japanese university.
Something of his quality may be
deduced from an extract from “Excus-
ing the Cicadas,” “those squat per-
sistent creatures .... passionate as
tenors”: —
I have known them shriek in a cat’s
mouth
Like a member of the Diet. Or
after a Te Deum
Tumble abstractedly into the midden.
Or,
gutted by ants,
Pose as elegantly as in a natural
history museum.
Lacking politics, philosophy or grace,
Yet they are the blood of many a
Japanese poem—
Here is the monstrous life
Those seventeen syllables cannot
embrace.
It is shrewd, amusing, humane poetry;
very attractive in its easygoing style.


MARS
Rubber lined
■
Split caging
for Slurries • Mud © Chemicals o Solids
Simplicity of Design
First Class
★ Maximum Efficientv
* Immediate Parts Service
mean
Low Operating and Maintenance Costs ■ Reduced downtime
A
m
V
e
1
- -
m
w-i&
:
■
The MARS 8/6 Model U.D.F. Pump
Check these main features
• 4 Heavy duty Roller Bearings.
• 4 Position delivery.
• Alternative arrangements for shaft
sealing.
• Meehanite alloy main castings.
• 5 point clamp of bowl and liners.
• Wearing parts of special metals
for special liquids.
• 2-3-4-8 vane impellers.
• Replaceable rubber or alloy steel
Liners.
• Sizes 2 in. to 8 in. delivery.
If you are pumping anything but pure water you can’t
afford to go past MARS PUMPS
MARS
%
Machine
Manufacturing
CO. PTY. LTD.
Bridge St., Valley, Brisbane, Q.
Write for details NOW
Name..
Address-
