

The Bulletin
Summing-up for Saturday—page 36
Wednesday, November 19, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper
"Just my luck to get wrecked on an island this shape."


STORY
WRITING PAYS
If Yoy Know How To
Write Successfully.
Editors can not obtain sufficient acceptable
MSS. This Student’s accceptances more than
pay for his Course:
“Remittances ar,e coming in frequently:
l am more than paying for the Coarse.”
Successful STOTT-Trained writers con-
tribute regularly to the press. It will pay
YOU to study with STOTT’S.
Wherever you live, STOTT’S can train
you in your own home. Send the Coupon
—without cost or obligation of any kind
—for STOTT’S Free Literary Prospectus.
(On Russell SI., Melbourne; 149 Castrlereag'h St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide: 254 Murray St.. Berth.
CUT A .YD MAIL TIUS COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any obli
pation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (5.8.2258)
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2«71, G.P.0., Sydney-
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us And it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
e=3@a?
t 1 0
■» —rr^
BOOKS BOUGHT
We visit you in the City and Suburbs
Immediate Cash Payment
Valuations made for Probate
BW 7874
(After Hours JY 1131)
BERKELOUW
114 King: Street, (Between Pitt and
Castlereagh Streets), Sydney.
The Red Page
OFF TO THE GILBERTS
Nancy Phelan’s Atoll Holiday
(Angus and Robertson) is about a
holiday on the Gilbert Islands, which
are a group of 16 coral islands lying
across the Equator in what H. E.
Maude in his introduction calls “the
real citadel-heart of the South Seas”;
and if you want a vicarious holiday in
the Gilberts, here it is.
What is it like in the Gilberts? Well,
you can sit on the beach in the moon-
light and do nothing, and then it is
like this: —
While we had been indoors the
moon had risen, and now, eclipsed
by the trees, it gave only a twi-
light, a luminous gloaming that lay
upon everything, muting all color
and contrast. Out on the reef and
on the curved beach of the next
islet were moving lights, the bright
white lamps of reef-fishers, which
caught the surface of the water.
There were a few faint sighs and
rustles of the water, and far away
a sound of singing ; nothing more.
A family came along the beach with
their lantern, their fish strung in a
dangling bunch: a Gauguin group,
red pareu, green pareu, yellow pareu,
dark wet hair and limbs lit by the
swinging lamp, obliquely.
True, it is not always so idyllic. If
the Gilberts are far from the rush and
uproar of George Street and you are
not likely to be knocked down by
Nonouti's solitary truck —for which,
when it was first imported, they forgot
to order any petrol—they have a few
notable disadvantages of their own.
The lunatic-asylum, the leper-colony
and the piggery seem to be excessively
prominent features, though perhaps it
is an advantage to have them all in
a heap and be done with them: —
It did not take you very long to
walk round the islet. If you turned
east from the hospital you came to
a high wire enclosure containing a
number of varied lunatics. With
wrists chained together they sat at
the doors of their houses, glowering
or grinning, according to the way
their complaint took them At
first the sight of the chains shocked
me, but hearing of the way the
lunatics were given to beating-up
each other, or themselves, of their
feats of strength, and of how at
times they had escaped and swum
across the passage to sleep with the
girls in the leper-colony, I could see
the point of them. Beyond the
lunatics’ enclosure you came upon a
place where pigs were kept . . .
There are also ghosts, though the
only one Mrs. Phelan saw, an elderly
female phantom, seems to have been
accompanied throughout her wander-
ings by a presumably real small boy,
which casts rather a doubt upon her
authenticity, unless the boy was par-
ticularly addicted to ghosts, or was him-
self a phantom. And there was also,
during the last war, a very grim battle
one one of the islets where the U.S.
Marines, trying to land at low-water,
had to wade ashore in the face of
murderous Japanese fire; which eventu-
ally they contrived to do and then
exterminated the defenders: “Nearly
five-thousand men were killed on this
tiny islet, less than one square-mile in
area,”
But, then, the War was a good many
years ago; and the only actual relic
which Mrs. Phelan encountered, apart
from ruined pill-boxes, was a skull
which one of her native friends proudly
presented to her as a token of esteem
—“ ‘lt’s for you,’ he said. Then added,
‘Shapponaise.’ ” The Gilbert Islanders,
who are a mixture of Polynesian and
Indonesian ancestry, apparently did
not like the Japanese very much—they
were no bigger than the islanders them-
selves and they sat on the ground and
ate with their fingers: “How can we
be expected to respect these people?”
And war, lepers, lunatics, ghosts
and pigs apart, life on the whole was
quite idyllic enough. Mrs. Phelan and
the lady with whom she was travelling
lolled about from island to island on
a lugger or some such craft, the captain
of which let one of the inescapable
pigs loose in the suitcase where the
author kept her underwear. They met
the local king, Na Koriri, who was “a
nice old thing but terribly shy” and had
a silver coffee-pot with the spout
blocked. They heard the toddy-singers
in the palm-trees at dawn (it is an
estimable custom of the Gilberts for
people gathering the sap of the coconut-
tree for their highly intoxicating toddy
to climb up the trees and sing). They
heard of a leaf which heals the painful
and poisonous sting of the stonefish;
and, in one of the book’s most memor-
able scenes, they watched the natives
catching flying-fish by night, while
the crew of their own ship scooped the
fish up in nets: —
Between the ship and the shore
in a wide broken semi-circle, flaring
torches were spaced out in the dark-
ness, gliding over the smooth water,
each one accompanied by a long red
rippling reflection. It seemed as
though the canoes were moving
slowly inwards, and within their
curved ranks the flying-fish, dazed
and attracted by the lights, were
being rounded up Into the ship’s
bright searchlight came flying-fish,
silver birds, arrows shot from the
darkness. At once ship’s boys
appeared at the side with nets like
butterfly-nets and scooped up the
shining creatures as they came. As
they died they were eaten raw like
sausages or bananas . . .
The book could do with more of
such highlights; more selection; more
emphasis on one particular aspect of
Nature or native life in which the
author may have some special interest.
It tends rather to drift on from day to
day, setting down everything that
happened, trivial or significant. Still,
that is the plan of it; a picture of a
holiday in the Gilberts; and it does
make a very pleasant and informative
trip.
How Writers Write
The sixteen interviews with famous
writers in Writers at Work (Seeker and
Warburg) come from “The Paris
Review,” an American-run literary
quarterly founded by “young men
lately out of college who were in
(Continued on page 58)


Be on your guard against
‘
Labor’s hidden objective”
Says Colin McKellar
Country Party candidate
for the Senate
At election time Labor candidates try to hide their
basic objective to which they are all pledged—
socialisation of industry. But that’s what Labor
stands for. If elected, they can proceed with
nationalisation, because they will claim the
people know it is the first plank of the Labor platform.
Whatever they say, Socialists and Communists have the
same objectives.
'jfc- Evatt Labor blinks the eye at "Unity Tickets” with Communists
at Union elections and fights the industrial groups opposed to
Communism.
A.L.P. sympathies repeatedly favour Communist countries and an
Eyatt Government would place Australia in grave peril.
j S e I
* ,CAUSAL
Ward’s admission
'’Nationalise farms"
Eddie Ward let the cat out of the bag in a'
recent TV interview. Labor would eventually
nationalise farms, he said, but industry and
banks would come first.
COUNTRY PARTY
(Authorised by J. F. Dredge, Australian Country
Party, 42 Bridge Street, Sydney.)
For the Senate, vote tor the
Government Joint Senate Team
II
u
3
McMULLIN, A. M.
ANDERSON, K. Me
McKELLAR, G. C.


The Bulletin
Wednesday y Nov. 19, 1958
Vol. 79—No. 4110
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ,*
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 304 North Terrace,
A delaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
UNITED FRONT TYRANNY
'T'HE legal issue of the Hursey case
is still under review, but the prin-
ciple enunciated by the Waterside
Workers’ union and its supporters, who
include Dr. Evatt (if what he said in
Parliament represents his current
opinion), and of the A.C.T.U. and the
A.L.P. hierarchy, is not —except by
the Australian public.
The extreme Leftist and Communist-
run unions have already established
themselves as closed and privileged
bodies in whose industries nobody may
work except with the consent of the
union-bosses. So that disobedience to
a majority-decision means loss of live-
lihood to the dissident who, under
direction and incitement by the leaders,
is vilified, attacked, physically assaulted
if need be. and held up to execration
on the basis of charges which as often
as not are pure invention.
This procedure, of course, does not
go with the British concept of indi-
vidual freedom, but fits-in neatly with
the totalitarian theories of Hitler’s Ger-
many. Mussolini’s Italy. Khrushchev’s
Russia and Mao’s China. When it is
carried out as it has been in the Hursey
case it introduces —apart from the
particular matters which are still under
debate in the appeal court —an element
of lawlessness foreign to every idea of
fair-play and humanity.
The two Hurseys are wharflaborers
whose father and grandfather were
wharflaborers. They can work on the
wharves only by grace of a union-
leadership some of whose members are
Communists.
The Communist leaders of the
union have told them, in effect, that
because the union says they must
become supporters of the Australian
Labor Party, which they oppose, they
must sink their own opinions and yield
to that of the majority.
Failing to do that they were attacked
and driven from the wharves, under the
blind eye of the Tasmanian Labor Gov-
ernment. Only since the Supreme
Court verdict have they been permitted
to work with other unionists; and one
wonders for how long.
Communist rags throughout Aus-
tralia, apart from the official organs
of the Communist-led unions, have
rushed to malign the Hurseys with
stories of their wealth and associations,
and equally outrageous versions of the
“facts” of their case.
The W.W.F. has often defended the
right of convicted pilferers, drunkards
and bashers to continue to work within
the union. But for the sake of a 10s.
levy, not for union purposes but to help
Dr. Evatt and his election, the liveli-
hood of these men was being taken
from them.
Mr. Menzies says that he is investi-
gating, in general, the legal side of such
situations with a view to protection of
the right of citizens to work at their
chosen trades. It would be more to
the point to investigate the question of
whether, holding to the principles it
does —whether they are technically
legal or not —the Waterside Workers’
Federation should continue to exist
under the present privileged system of
closed ranks and a legislative protec-
tion such as is granted to scarcely any
other body in the country.
ANOTHER case, in Newcastle, is
important in that it illustrates the
fact that Labor and Communist union-
leaders are of like mind on the issue
of dictation of political opinion. In
this case Hal Alexander, the general-
secretary of Actors’ Equity, and his
lieutenant, Hal Lashwood. have decreed
a street-corner election campaign by
their union in the interests of the A.L.P.
The president of their Newcastle
branch, though q Labor man, does not
believe that a union which includes a
very large proportion, and perhaps a
majority, of non-Labor men, should use
its name and resources in this way. So
he resigned from his office of president
while remaining in the union. The
Labor radio-station which employs him
showed how far it adheres to the
principles of freedom of opinion and
liberalism, for which Dr. Evatt has
always declared himself famous, by
suspending him at once, even though he
continues a union-member.
If Labor attitudes on the Hursey
atrocity and the Newcastle case do not
convince the public that Communism
and Labor are acting in a united front
nothing will. The contributory evidence
is startling.
For weeks before the Sydney Town
Hall meeting of the alleged unemployed
of the mining fields it was being adver-
tised that the principal speakers would
be Dr. Evatt, Mr. Kenny (of the Trades
and Labor Council) and Mr. Parkinson,
president of the Miners’ Federation and
a member of the Central Committee of
the Communist party. Though it was
advertised that the meeting was con-
nected with the election campaign
because “the Menzies Government
must be exposed” and that Government
ousted, Dr. Evatt went to speak and
Senator McKenna accompanied him,
and the Communist contributor to the
symposium was reported to have been
introduced by Thom, M.L.C., a Labor
Legislative Councillor.
The Miners’ Federation and the
Waterside Workers—apart from the
compulsory levies for A.L.P. funds
imposed by the latter for an “Out
Menzies” campaign—are spending large
sums on radio programmes throughout
the country to whip-up support for
Dr. Evatt.
Minister for Air, has
pointed out truthfully that the Com-
munists have put up candidates only
in electorates where they know Labor
must win, apparently to round-up
extremist preferences. And he declares
that the Seamen’s Union (whose Com-
munist secretary, when arrested on a
charge of drunkenness, was found with a
large sum of money in his shirt obtained
for the union from stand-over tactics
towards overseas ship-purchasers), has
given £3200 lo A.L.P. funds and that
several other unions—like those already
mentioned above—are giving contribu-
tions both to the A.L.P. and the
Communist-party election funds.
Just after the end of World War II
the official organ of the A.L.P., the
“Standard,” was edited by the director
of the current Federal Labor election
campaign—Leslie Haylen, M.P.
In its issue of June 21, 1946, it wrote:
The Communist party has no choice
but to support the Labor Party.
What other Government could it
support?
And it trounced those who objected to
Communists being union-leaders.
It seems likely that, if returned, a
Government headed by Dr. Evatt or
Mr. Ward would soon have Mr. Jim
Healy back on the Stevedoring
Authority with a Government salary,
in keeping with the policy which it
followed when it appointed him during
its last term and had the advantage
of the counsel of a Prime Minister’s
trade-union advisory committee which
included Healy and Thornton and.
altogether, seven Communists in a
total of 13.
On the prototype experience of the
Hursey and Newcastle cases, freedom
of thought would scarcely be given a
chance under a Hobart-conference
regime. The country would quickly be
on the way to the permanent one-party
Labor rule, which Mr. Calwell has
already stated to be the ideal of the
“democratic Socialism” which he and
his leader advocate.


THE OLD FIRM!


PLAIN ENGLISH
Unemployment and Powers
While he stridently blames the Menzies
Government for the unemployment posi-
tion, particularly on the coalfields, and
abuses them for not having dealt with
it, it is interesting to have Dr. Evatt’s
own exposition of the powers of the
Commonwealth Government in relation
to these matters as set out in “Hansard,”
pp. 146-7, February 11, 1944, when he
himself was in office as Attorney-
General : —
Under the existing Constitution this
Parliament would have no direct authority
whatever... .to ensure that employment is
or unemployment prevented....
For the Commonwealth has no general
peace-time power in relation to employ-
ment.... In the disturbed conditions of the
post-war years, full employment cannot
possibly be achieved unless some authority
is empowered to determine how employ-
ment is to be expanded.... Power to
prevent mass-dismissals or the putting-off
of employees is a matter for the States,
which have full powers in these matters,
whereas the Commonwealth Parliament and
Government have virtually no power except
the indirect influence they can exert
through tribunals for conciliation and
arbitration in settling a limited class of
industrial dispute.
In the face of this, he told an “unem-
ployed” election meeting at Sydney Town
Hall last month: —
A Labor Government will see to it that
every man and woman honestly desiring a
job on reasonable terms will be able to
secure it.
In most statesmen this inconsistency
would be bewildering and disturbing;
but in Dr. Evatt —no. He was the legal
genius who told the electors of Hurst-
ville on August 4, 1943, that “there will
be more room for private enterprise and
business after the war than ever,” and
that “the Commonwealth Constitution
gave no power to nationalise industry....
The charge of socialisation against the
Government has no foundation.” He
also was the Attorney-General who three
years later advised th.e Government that
it was legal to socialise the whole of the
banking system and consequently the
finance, industry and commerce of the
country. He is also the author and ardent
prophet of the “democratic socialisation
programme” of the A.L.P., which is a
negation of everything that he promised
in his 1958 policy-speech.
The Senate Vote
For the past three years the Senate has
been deadlocked, with 30 Government
members and 30 on the Opposition side.
That this position could continue for three
years without bringing the business of
Parliament to a standstill is explained
by the division in the ranks of the Oppo-
sition, 27 of whom belong to the A.L.P.,
two to the Democratic Labor party and
one to the Queensland Labor party.
Only occasionally, as in the vote on the
Banking Bill, did all three factions unite.
At his election meetings Prime Minister
Menzies has been stressing the im-
portance, from the Government view-
point, of the Senate vote. He is telling
his supporters that he needs a majority
in both Houses, not merely the Repre-
sentatives, and he does not relish the
thought of another three years of dead-
lock. Dr. Evatt hasn’t been saying much
about the Senate —probably for the very
good reason that he knows that no
matter what hopes his party may
cherish regarding the House of Repre-
sentatives, it has no hope at all of
getting a majority in the Senate. Liberal-
Country parties don’t want to come back
with a deadlocked Senate, but a dead-
locked Senate is the very best a vic-
torious Labor party could expect.
Thirty-two senators are to be elected
on Saturday—six in N.S.W., six in Vic-
toria and five in each of the other four
States. Under proportional-representa-
tion, in the present state of the electorate,
the Government can’t fail to have three
senators elected in the first two States
and at least two in each of the others.
Its minimum is therefore 14 new-term
senators, who, added to the 16 non-
retiring Government senators, would
comprise exactly half the new House.
A 3-2 win in any State would give the
Government the majority its leader is
asking for. Westralia, the only State in
which the Government team has drawn
first place on the ballot-paper, seems
likely to give it the extra seat it needs
for control of the Senate ; the Liberal
and Country parties are running separate
teams, but occupy first and second places
on the card.
Labor’s position is that if it wins three
seats in every State —it cannot win more
—it will preserve the deadlock, though
only on issues which D.L.P. Senator
McManus approves. It could, however,
lose its third seat in Victoria to the
D.L.P. and in Queensland to the Q.L.P.
The Price of Pensions
A glance at the estimates for the
current wool season should satisfy any-
body of the Mad Hatter nature of Dr.
Evatt’s “spend for prosperity” election
plan.
The return to date for the season is
about 38 per cent, down on that of last
year. Prices are now lower than they
have been since 1947-48 and have fallen
50 per cent, since the market began to
weaken in the beginning of 1957. In
1956-57 the return was £482 million;
this year we will be lucky if it is much
above £260 million.
The year, as has been pointed out by
the Commonwealth Statistician, may see
our overseas reserves cut in half —by
an amount equal to the value of the
whole export wool for the 1958-59 season.
Everywhere in the country there is
anxiety as to how, if prices for exports
and level of overseas demand continue
as at present, graziers and farmers will
pay their way and keep their men em-
ployed. In many districts the price of
wool is below the cost of production,
arid tax-collections will certainly reflect
the position at the end of 1958-59.
Yet this is the moment at which Dr.
Evatt chooses to come forward with
offers of higher pensions and increased
child-endowment, while Mr. Cahill aims
to increase the cost of production by
introducing equal pay for the sexes and
talks of a week to “relieve
unemployment!”
This year, on the existing scale, the
whole of our income from wool will
not pay the £273,817,000 needed to meet
the cost of social services for 1958-59.
For every £26 earned from wool, if
Jthe estimate for the year proves accurate,
£l3 will go to pay old-age and invalid
pensions and £6 14s. to meet child-
endowment.
If Dr. Evatt’s inflationary plan is
carried out we will be spending £3B or
more on pensions and family handouts
and free medicine for every £26 the wool-
clip produces.
Showing the Family
[From “A.W.”]
A floating castle aircraft - carrier
H.M.A.S. Melbourne looked at her
Sydney berth. Over 700 visitors were on
board. On the flight-deck, besides streams
of people, were planes with their wings
folded back. The ship carries 20 aircraft,
eight Gannets and 12 Venoms (the latter
jets). If necessary, all planes can be got
off in 10 minutes.
As the ship’s company lined both sides
of the flight-deck and the band paraded
up and down playing brassy music, the
ship slid away ; gently, just like a giant
table on ball - bearing casters. The
captain’s voice over the amplifiers:
“Good morning. We look forward to a
very pleasant day.” A bit more; then;
“Visitors are requested to clear the flight-
deck. That is all.”
By this time the ship was approaching
the Heads ; gradually the Sydney coast-
line was receding to a blue and distant
blur.
Outside, flight-deck clear, the helicopter
took-off and buzzed away to port; two
Gannets and two Venoms followed. The
planes taxi down the deck to the
“catapult”. Wham! Force of the cata-
pult shudders the ship. And away the
plane goes.
Coming in, planes are arrested by one
of a series of tripwires ; it takes your
breath away when a jet comes roaring
down onto the deck and is pulled-up short
by the wire.
Provided your legs could stand up
to it, the whole ship might be inspected.
Later there was lunch—roast chicken,
ham, fruit-salad and Movies for
the There were displays, such
as the two Venoms slicing down at the
watgr in a power-dive firing rockets and
guns ; and the great underdeck hangar
was open to the public (area, about one
acre ; like a main floor of a factory).
The day passed, and H.M.A.S. Mel-
bourne set her home-course. Two
bustling tugs appeared inside the Heads ;
the ship was slowly reversed ; ratings
and officers again lined the flight-deck ;
the band appeared ; and, to the captain’s
instructions (“Swing my stern around to
starboard a little, Heros”), the 20,000-
tonner edged back to the wharf.


[For election matter in this issue requiring
signature, David Adams, of 252 George Street,
Sydney, is responsible.]
The Case for Non-commitment
The London “New Statesman’s” editorial
line on foreign affairs got a good work-
out in “The Case for Non-commitment,”
Kingsley Martin’s second Dyason lecture
in Sydney.
. The case went something like this:
Nuclear weapons had changed the
whole concept of large-scale warfare as
a means of enforcing policy. Since scien-
tists, and not a few militarists, agreed
that a nuclear war would probably
destroy not only the objective of policy
but the policy-makers themselves, it was
useless as well as destructive and must
be avoided at almost any cost.
This did not necessarily mean that the
West should capitulate to every demand
of world Communism. Rather, it meant
learning to play the game of diplomacy
under new rules.
The best way to play this game, Mr.
Martin said, was to keep as many nations
as possible uncommitted to either side of
the seemingly unavoidable struggle
between the U.S.A. and Russia.
For this reason he was opposed to the
rearming of West Germany and to the
attempts by Britain and France to main-
tain by force their “spheres of influence”
in the Middle East and South-east Asia.
Nationalism, not Communism, he said,
was the chief force in Middle East and
South-east Asian politics; and if you
opposed it, as the French did in Indo-
China and the British and French did
at Suez, you forced the Nationalists into
league with Communism. They were
then committed to Russian protection
and became another trigger-point for
world nuclear war.
But if, on the other hand, you granted
the Nationalists the independence they
demanded, as Britain did in India, Com-
munism had less chance of taking-over.
The country remained uncommitted, and
it was possible to preserve good relations
with it.
There was a lesson here, he said, for
Australia in the dispute between
Indonesia and the Netherlands over West
Irian.'
The Prophets
With three days to go to the poll, it would
be an omniscient prophet who could
make a sure estimate of the precise result
of the election.
One of the most marked effects of the
change in methods of communication is
that public opinion has little chance to
voice itself, or the electors any chance
to see what and who they are voting for
at first hand.
Already the era has begun in which
the only view those who are asked to
return them will get of candidates are
as the curled and painted marionettes of
the TV-screen, exhibited (by editors full
of mincing questions), like pygmies from
darkest Africa or the tattooed lady at
the Show, as they are put through their
paces.
The trouble is that those who put them
through the paces often know little of
politics or are partisan, and allow nothing
to happen which would discommode their
exhibits or force them to say anything
too embarrassing to themselves.
But these spectacles can provide
occasional flashes (which electors may
find instructive) about the nature of the
political standards of some candidates.
At one TV-showing last week the audi-
ence had the chance to observe the editor
of a big newspaper, who has not been in
the country long enough to have a vote,
acting as oracle on Australian policies
and guiding the steps of Dr. Evatt, who
assured his listeners that he would abjure
the only objective for which his party
admits in its platform that it exists—
socialisation—if elected to office, and Mr.
Calwell not apologising for the fact that
his party takes funds from the Com-
munist party —which his own Govern-
ment accused some years ago officially of
having “the sole purpose of defeating the
Australian defence policy in the interests
of a foreign Power”—because the
amounts received are not large.
Unfortunately, TV gives no indication
of audience-response.
With 18 marginal electorates, some of
them with very narrow margins, anything
might happen in a country in which
about half the electors read little else but
the sporting news or listen to much more
on the radio than rock-’n’-roll or “quiz”
shows.
The chances are heavily weighted, how-
ever, on a Government victory. If the
gaggle of cranks, no-hopers and Leftists
who now form the Opposition get into
power it wijl be a bad day for Australia.
Few judges even among the Labor party
itself believe that the voters will be pre-
pared to trust them with the Govern-
ment in the present delicate economic
(and overseas) situation.
Dr. Evaft's Discretion
In his notable “bogeyman” speech at
St. Kilda, Minister for External Affairs
Casey spoke off-the-cuff, and in describ-
ing Dr. Evatt as the bogeyman of Aus-
tralian affairs to the U.K. and the U.S.
and other powerful friends overseas he
was speaking with an -authority (on
his own special subject) that is not usual
in election speeches.
Casey has been giving somewhat the
same speech around his electorate since
the campaign opened, but it had never
before been reported, and as the Doc.
wishes to be matey with Moscow but
doesn’t want it mentioned in the public
prints, his cry of “Disgrace! Appalling!
Slander!” was understandable.
Perhaps Casey’s claim that Evatt had
lost no opportunity over the last 15 years
of attacking the U.S. is an exaggeration
-—he has gracefully skipped some chances
—but it is true that he is cool towards
the Anzus and Seato treaties, that he
would bring our troops back from
Malaya, would work for the inclusion
of Communist China in the U.N., and
his policies, do get applause from the
Communist party in Australia.
Dr. Evatt’s chief objection was to
Casey’s assertion that Australia would
cease to get secret and confidential in-
formation from its overseas friends if
he became P.M., because they could not
be certain that the information wouldn’t
drift back to Moscow. Yet Evatt’s dis-
cretion is open to question, and so are
the sympathies of persons he is likely
to choose for his confidential staff.
Strife in Iraq
Though the Australian press has lost
interest in the affairs of the Middle East,
except when some sensational incident
arrests its attention for the moment, the
position is still dangerous.
The other day the King of Jordan was
chased off the normal air-route to
Europe by Syrian fighter-aircraft made in
Russia, though he had filed his flight-
schedule with the Syrian “Government.”
The Russians are clearly planning a
new move in the Middle East. For some
days this month “Red Star,” journal of
the Red Army, continued to insinuate
that the United States was planning a
fresh aggression in the internal affairs
of Jordan. And events in Baghdad showed
the whole of the Middle East that any-
body who supped with the West would
have to use a long spoon to escape being
badly burnt.
During the past few days the former
Foreign Minister of Baghdad and other
prominent associates in the Government
of Nuri Pasha were dragged into the
dock, barefoot and in chains, by an
arrogant military tribunal of Nasser-
like mein and sentenced to be hanged
by strangling for the alleged crime of
plotting against Syria.
The plea that their dealings were with
Syrian Ministers and were open and
aimed at peaceful union of the two
countries was scarcely listened to.
The whole hearing had the appear-
ance of a device to hang political
“enemies” —i.e., friends of the West —
whatever might be the evidence. It
seems to be a matter for shame that
no protest has been made either by the
British or U.S. Governments or by the
United Nations Organisation.
Iraq looks to be a seething mass of
intrigue which Brigadier Kassem is only
keeping under control by the sternest
means. What with the Communist under-
ground and Colonel Aref, Kassem’s
deputy during the revolution, who has
been arrested on his unauthorised return
from Europe, where he had been sent as
Ambassador to West Germany, the
Government is having a tough time, and
its continued existence depends on the
goodwill of the Army.
Colonel Aref, who was most respon-
sible for the conduct of the revolution,
the murder of the King and Nuri Pasha
and the arrest of the “criminals” who
have just been sentenced, has himself
been involved in a conspiracy not against
Syria but against Iraq, for its inclusion in
the Federated Arab Republic of Nasser.
Perhaps further developments will have
to await the mooted visit of Khrushchev
to Cairo.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Red Page expresses its thanks to the
correspondents who have explained
the meaning of “barbers’ cats,” referred
to in the review of J. S. MacDonald's
Australian Painting Desiderata. It is
pleasing now to have the mastery of so
useful a term, and, for the benefit of
anyone else who may have been
mystified by it, it may be stated, as far
as the Religious Editor will permit, that
it means that the cats are all
and ——.
♦X« ' «j* »j«
“Central”: In the members’ room of
Sydney Royal Exchange there is a tele-
phone cabinet that may be the only one
of its kind in the State: before the caller
can enter, he is obliged to put 4d. in
pennies in the slot —then the dial is his.
There, at any rate, they don’t deal in
futures..
❖ ❖ ->
“Kate”: Re the multi-million-pound
hotel to be built on the site of
the old Eastern Market (Melbourne):
the - members of the Bread and Cheese
Club held a Dennis evening in the
Nicholas Hall ; “The Sentimental Bloke”
talkie and part of the old silent film
were shown, then readings were given
from Den’s verse, and Hal Gye, “Den’s”
illustrator, read some verse he’d written
in “The Bloke” verse-form, expressing
Bill’s surprise at being aired-off again
in public. The gathering was to raise
funds to put a plaque on that new hotel
to commemorate the spot:
I seen ’er in the markit first uv all,
Inspectin’ brums at Steeny Isaac's stall.
Plans are also under way to erect a
small bronze statue or some-such on the
St. Kilda beach where Doreen said, “I
wish yeh meant it, Bill.”
“W.8.T.”: In a cafe in Sydney’s
Martin Place I asked for cheese on toast.
One slice was 2s. 5d., but I could have
had two slices for 3s. 3d., a saving of
Is. 7d. on the double-helping.
v ❖ *■>
“ Piketrailer ” (Bahrein): London
“Daily Telegraph” was so impressed with
Queensland’s Mary Kathleen —“remote
Australian uranium-mine and its town”
—that it ran a full-page pictorial spread.
As an exile in the Persian Gulf, where
some Darwin training of ’44 in humidity
stands me in good stead, I found Mary
Kathleen immensely interesting. Here in
Bahrein a close counterpart, though of
the oil-age, exists at Awali, a self-
contained township of spacious bunga-
lows, sports-clubs, a school and hospital,
built in the burning, arid centre of the
island by BAPCO, the local oil-company
whose benevolent parent, though it is
registered in Canada to give it the status
of a British company, is Standard Oil of
California. The oil-pundits tell me that
it was an Aussie financier, William Knox
D’Arcy, at the turn of the century, who
pioneered oil-interest in the Gulf by
"He says there's something Wrong with his elbow."
securing the concession for the Persian
fields. And it was a Kiwi, Major Frank
Holmes, in 1925, who discovered oil in
Bahrein.
❖ ❖ ❖
“True”: A painter was at work on
the roof of the kindergarten when a
constable climbed a ladder, ventured out
on the roof, and served him with a
summons to attend court. as witness.
This was the first time the constable had
ever issued a summons in such a way.
A little later that day a telegraph-boy,
for his first time also, climbed the ladder,
stepped onto the roof, and delivered a
telegram notifying the painter he had
been endorsed as a Labor candidate in
the Federal elections.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“P.F.G.S.”: “Police... .are seeking
thieves who yesterday stole three Owen
sub-machine guns from an Army store.”
Evo. Owen would probably spit blood!
He never invented, at any time, a sub-
machine gun. His contribution to the
A.I.F. was a short-range machine-
carbine for close-quarter fighting, the
simplest, and still the best, of its kind.
In '42 I was detailed from S.A.S. to go
with him to Melbourne and put his
Mk. 2 through a week’s severe testing
in the presence of the Inspector of Small
Arms, also Dr. McDonald Moore, then
Inspector of Munitions. Very effective
at short ranges, the bullet loses its ballistic
efficiency over 100yds. Invented as
a machine-carbine, a machine-carbine it
remains, ignoramuses notwithstanding.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Doynest”: Horse-troughs have pro-
voked the bitterest controversy for years
in our corner of Melbourne. A new
resident objected to a rusted trough out-
side his front-gate; the city engineer
found it would cost £lOO to put the city’s
five troughs in order, plus future main-
tenance ; the council reckoned the price
too high for useless, anachronistic sym-
bols ; then it was on. The pro-troughers
claimed that with pony-clubs thriving
the horse was on the way back ; that it
would be “a shocking and cruel thing
to deprive horses, dogs and birds of their'
drink of water”; that three of the troughs
had been presented to the council, in
perpetual trust, by a neighborhood
family ; and that the S.P.C.A. and the
World Animal Week Committee would
have something to say. They produced
petitions by horse-owners, and offers by
citizens to pay for reconditioning and
maintaining all five troughs. Council
decided by one vote to retain one trough,
but feeling still runs high.
SALES-TALK
“Australia's major hire-purchase, companies
warned the public against being talked into
hire-purchase agreements they cannot afford.’’
Although it was just coni/nonsense
It shocked me when I read it —
Where the hire-purchase companies
Censured abuse of credit.
It hurts them more than us, I guess,
When they are forced to repossess.
And there are voters, too, whose eyes
Are bigger than their bellies;
They can be led by rhapsodies
To be their own Ned Kellies;
And therefore, friend, on Saturday
Beware of what the salesmen say !
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


T’ve not yet quite recovered from,
on a business visit to Sydney
Journalists’ Club, being shown over by
the president, Kenneth Slessor, and
another of its dignitaries, Edgar Holt.
This architectural poem rises floor by
floor in stanzas of surprise. The broad,
cool drinkery with its long bar and well-
spaced tables is insulated so that the
sounds of its poker-machines paying for
all the magnificence will not penetrate
to the dining-room above and the
writing-, billiard- and card-rooms below,
in the dining-room, Mr. Holt showed
me with immense pride the portrait, of
a past-president—it was not merely that
the club has been able to get its presi-
dents done in oils, but that it has been
able to relieve Wep of his awe before
the academic problems of oil-paint: in
this portrait, for the first time, one sees
him handling oils with the wit and
irreverence he had in black-and-white.
Slessor, for his part, was preening him-
self on a couple of Gills he had bought
for the writing-room ; but for me the
great surprise was the set of prints in
the card-room by an early strip-artist,
name of Hogarth—from the old boy’s
original plates! While Slessor disguised
a pardonable pride in these pictures by
fussing over whether the red frames
should be changed to black, with maybe
a gold surround to the mounts, I almost
asked whether there was any symbolism
in having “The Harlot’s Progress” in
the Journalists’ Club —but Slessor and
Holt were two to one, and so pathetically
happy in their home-making, that I
allowed myself to be led away, and
farewelled with a grace that would have
sat well upon a certain William Hickey,
or even a certain Uncle Harry: —
Your uncle, the great Harry, left after him
The memory of a cravat, a taste in cheese,
And a way of saying “I am honored.”
Such things, when men and beasts are gone,
Smell sweetly to the Seraphim—
Believe me, fool, there are worse gifts than
these.
But the Monday-evening magnificence
was as nothing to the following Friday’s
noonday splendor, when Sydney’s Lord
Mayor, Alderman Jensen, presented the
Australian Journalists’ Club short-story
prizes to Hal Porter, Mrs. H. Wilson
and Mrs. Marien Dreyer. Slessor spoke
agreeably, the Mayor with astonishing
fluency and poise, but Porter took the
honors with a short but disgraceful
speech in which he explained that, being
nervous, he had gone out and celebrated
in advance, and so would be unable to
make a speech: it was very touching,
until you remembered that he was the
leading light in Tasmanian repertory
theatricals. “But what did you have for
lunch?” my wife said. “A lobster each,”
I said, “cut in half.” “Oh, no!” my wife
said (she loves lobster). “You mean
half-a-lobster cut in pieces.” I said no ;
it was a complete lobster. “Well,” she
said, “and what before that?” “Oyster
cocktails,” I said. At this she moaned
a little ; knowing that it was wasted on
me, who don’t care whether I have
oysters or not. “And,” I said, rubbing
it in —“forks to fish them out with!”
But has journalism ever had it so good ?
Nunk.
“Tabba”: The drinking of canned
fruit-juice was always preceded by the
ritual of hunting a tool to punch a
couple of holes in the can. Conventional
can-openers were cumbersome for the
job, which usually fell to screwdrivers,
file-tangs and chisels. Canned beer
couldn’t be entrusted to such haphazard
methods and brought its own special
opener which leaves a neat triangular
hole with a mere flick of the wrist. This
handy hole-gouger-c«m-bottle-opener has
become more übiquitous than the
old-type bottle-opener once found in
every car glove-box, and is the greatest
favor ever brought by the breweries to
the fruit-juice drinker.
* ❖ ❖
“Terry”: When first admitted, the
pint-sized Venus demanded the doctors
retrieve the coin caught in her oesophagus
because it was “worth an awful lot—a
whole shilling.” After the operation she
gave it humbly, as the unworthiest of
unworthy offerings, to the tonsil-torn
Adonis in the next bed.
“C.A.L.”:, The mob were discussing
accident-victims whose identity couldn’t
be established for some time after a
fatality. “I reckon everyone should be
compelled to wear dog-medals or carry
an identity-card, same as during the
war,” the shop-steward declared. “Well,
here’s one who’d never need an identity-
card,” chipped-in H.-p. Harry; “every
day except Sunday I have an h.-p. account
to square-up somewhere, and they’d
always be sure to find a finance-company
card with my name and address on it
in my pocket.”
* ❖ *
“Cygnet”: Notwithstanding the edu-
cational advantages of this modern age
some of the go-getters are using the
technique of 30 or 40 years ago. While
I was visiting friends in the country a
knock at the front-door revealed a gentle-
man with an ingratiating smile and a
couple of suitcases of extremely low-
priced suitings and cloths, as well as
mercery. As “officer on an American
vessel,” he had brought in large quan-
tities of similar stuff to a big Sydney
firm at reduced figures, and in token of
their gratitude they had insisted on his
accepting large parcels of stuff of the type
he was now selling. No sale at this
house ; but he went off with his suitcases
and car down the winding back-road . . .
The man with the cases of pearl neck-
laces which Customs officials had seized
and then sold-off for next-to-nothing
hasn’t been along lately, but I’m expect-
ing him at any time.
❖ ♦> *>
“Glen Park”: Discussing ways and
means of getting into Heaven, one young-
ster, on being told that people were
pulled up on the end of the rope, said
he didn’t want to go there. “Don’t
worry,” his friend told him; “by the
time we’re ready, there’ll be space-ships
to take us.”
♦> ❖ ❖
“D.W.”: The Australian Postal
Workers’ Union is asking for time-and-a-
half penalty-rates for staff working on
Saturday mornings. In England the
customer is expected to pay penalty-
rates : though many Saturday-morning
mail deliveries are cut for economy, the
mail may be picked-up at the post-office,
but a charge of 6d. is made for what is
called a search-fee.
* * ♦♦♦
“Piketrailer” (Bahrein): Most memor-
able feature of Monty’s retirement (if
publishing controversial memoirs and
carrying the Sword of State at the open-
ing of Parliament can be called shrink-
ing from the public eye) was the picture
London dailies gleefully displayed of his
submitting primly to the congratulatory
embrace of Marshal Juin when he
received the Medciille Militaire. This
must have brought a smile to many an
Eighth Army veteran who remembered


the victory parade in Tripoli, when a
pretty French girl presenting a bouquet
caught the master-tactician by surprise.
In receiving the Medaille Militaire Monty
joins a minute group of Englishmen—
Sir Winston Churchill and Admiral of
the Fleet Lord Cunningham. It is rarely
awarded to officers, and then only to
senior generals for exceptional service or
brilliant victories. The French have a
flair for intriguing military touches like
this a soldier’s medal coveted by
“Well, I'm back again, and I still think they're too
loose around the waist.”
generals. It all dates back to the ragged
armies of the Revolution ; as a rather
good 19th-century British general, Sir
William Napier, said: “Napoleon's
troops fought in bright fields where every
helmet caught some beams of glory, but
the British soldier conquered under the
cold shade of aristocracy.”
»> ♦♦♦ ❖
“W.P.T.”: I can buy The Bulletin
for Is., with 60 pages of good reading,
while a railway-timetable, a pretty bulky
publication, but less reliable, costs only
9d. But a miserable little racebook costs
me 2s. —and you’ve got to do the most
important writing yourself. Is there any-
thing on a racecourse, including the
horses, at a fair or reasonable price?
rushed to hospital for an
emergency op. was horrified when
told who the surgeon would be. “Oh,
no!” she moaned. “I hope he has no
memory for names. We went to a private
school together ; he pulled my pants off,
and carried them round the playground
on a stick. Going home a mob of us
got him down, took his pants off and
threw them into his garden.” All was
well ; if the surgeon had any memory
for names he didn’t say so.—“Willee.”
“Sevenelms”: One admirable rule
enforced in Japan is that no bus moves
in reverse unless the nattily-uniformed
and immaculately - gloved conductress
positions herself on the planned course
and controls all backward progress with
short whistle-blasts. But one expects
initiative in Nipponese transport. When
horse-transport was in vogue, only in
Japan could one see that labor-saving
device the 21b. jam-tin strategically
suspended from Dobbin-san's crupper.
♦> *
“Septem”: When General
MacArthur inhabited Menzies Hotel
(Melbourne), his two 15-stone,
cauliflower-eared bodyguards, accoutred
with truncheons and open-holstered gats,
truculently made it clear that, air-raid
wardens’ responsibilities notwithstand-
ing, the second-floor occupied by the
aloof and debonair Douglas was under
their sole control, and to be intruded
upon only at the risk of mayhem. The
legal boys from whom the district air-
raid squad was recruited had two comely
A.I.F. nursing-sisters engage the gorillas
in light conversation on the grpund-floor
while two A.R.P. wardens sneaked
upstairs to the second-floor, and against
the General's suite-door leaned a
horrendous black sphere made in the
kitchen of dough and charcoal, labelled
“Bomb.” Protruding from it, in real
nihilist - style, was 2ft. of imitation
fuse. Minutes later the Defender of
Corregidor, plus guards, strode from the
elevator to encounter this security-
violating token. Result: a ukase from
MacArthur that A.R.P. wardens, in
pursuit of duty, must in future have free
access to floor-two.
►j» »*« *>
“Wusslean”: The Merton Hall discord
(B. 5/11/ ’5B) was at its height when I
interviewed an applicant for a junior-
typist job. Asked about schooling, she
said: “I was at Melbourne Church of
England Girls’ Grammar School.” I
looked puzzled, for the school’s official
title is rarely used, least of all by pupils
or old-girls. “Merton Hall,” she
prompted shyly ; “we hardly like to say
so these days.”
* * *
“E. &0.E.”: Radio “Any Questions?”
programmes are hardly new; in an
old diary of the year 1768 I found
a description of a debate at a small
social club in London. The question
was: “Is luxury a good, or an evil, in
well-regulated States?” A horse-laugh
greeted the contribution of a Quaker
member, who said that, as “luxury” was
derived from the Latin words “light” and
“burn,” “I tell thee, Friend, it [luxury]
is to burn a candle by daylight.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Villefair”: Suppose it’s a bit like
saying “Yah, serves y’right,” but I can’t
weep tears over the plight of TV-ruined
picture-theatres. Less than two years
ago our local flea-cultivator prefaced
every screening with a slide of taboos:
“Chocolate-icecreams will not be allowed
in this theatre . . .” “Icecreams on sticks
will not . . ~” etc. About six of ’em.
1 myself once committed the heinous
crime of buying a cardboard cup of
orange-drink on sale in >ne foyer and
attempting to take it inside to the wife.
Two tough-looking ushers sternly refused
me admittance. Wonderingly asked the
reason and was told the cups made work
for the cleaners. Asked how I could
take the drink to the wife without the
cup, and was coldly informed that I’d
have to bring her out, or drink it myself.
The question as to where I could put the
drink while I went to bring the wife
out brought the uninterested answer:
on the floor, they supposed. Today —ah,
what a difference!


Hawkesbury Derelict
Once a
Proud Ship
By "SAILOR BILL"
AFLOAT
On the right bank of the Hawkes-
bury River, about a mile above
the road-bridge, the steel hulk of
a ship lies broken on the rocks
at the foot of a mountain.
It is a particularly dismal section of
the river, where the sun seldom shines
and the thick ooze covers everything
below highwater-mark, so that the hulk
looks particularly forlorn.
Her back is broken, and she sags
wearily at bow and stern. All the upper-
works and great areas of the deck- and
side-plating have long ago been stripped
off by scrap-dealers. The water of the
river enters the hull with the tide, and
when the tide goes down it drains noisily
out again through a hundred gaps and
holes.
The stern section alone remains in
reasonably good shape, and, on approach-
ing to within 100yds. or so of it, it is still
possible to make-out —in a lighter shade
of rust, where once brilliantly polished
brass covered the steel the word
“PARRAMATTA.”
This is all that now remains to show
that the hulk was once the first H.M.A.S.
Parramatta —the pride of the young
Commonwealth’s fleet, and the first
modern warship that the nation ever
owned.
There is nothing left but this faint
shadow of a name to show that the
mouldering hulk was once a proud
fighting ship that showed the Australian
Flag all over the world, from China to
the Crimea.
r T~'HE Parramatta was the first of the
three modern destroyers ordered as
soon as the Royal Australian Navy
officially came into being ; they formed
the nucleus of the Australian Fleet before
World War I.
She and two of her sister-ships
(H.M.A.S. Yarra and Warrego) were
built in Scotland ; three more of the
same class w'ere later built in Sydney,
They were all hardly bigger than a
modern Manly ferry. They were only
700 tons, and carried one 4in. gun and
a few 12-pounder popguns; but they
could all steam at more than 30 knots,
and their torpedoes could sink any
vessel afloat in their day.
There was also a rack of cutlasses pro-
vided, but even in 1910 their usefulness
was considered limited.
When World War I broke out, the
Parramatta, with other Australian war-
ships, hurriedly steamed north and took
part in the capture of what was then
German New Guinea. In the course of
operations there she steamed hundreds
of miles up the Sepik River (the first,
and probably the last, vessel of her size
to go so far) and captured two small
German steamers which were the first
prizes ever to be taken by the R.A.N.
A fter the surrender of German New
Guinea the R.A.N. ceased to operate
as an independent and united force, and
its ships scattered all over the world. The
Parramatta remained for two years in the
Pacific and operated around Borneo, the
Philippines and in the China Sea, patrol-
ling against raiders and pirates.
Then, in 1916, she was ordered abruptly
to the Mediterranean, and spent the rest
of the war there in work familiar to every
destroyer-man—fighting-off submarines ;
raiding and bombarding enemy coasts ' r
landing spies on lonely beaches ; beating-
off primitive air-raids; shepherding
crippled ships back home.
After the war she was attached to
the British Squadron in the Black Sea,
and for some time she ran a dispatch-
service between Sevastopol and Constan-
tinople. Finally, after six years of
almost continuous steaming under war-
ASHORE
time conditions, she returned to Aus-
tralia in 1920, and paid-off.
Tn the course of all this voyaging the
old Parramatta acquired some honor-
able scars. On the sides of the old hulk,
where the dynamo-room used to be, it
is still possible to make-out two square
patches on the plating. They were
riveted on in Brindisi, shortly after an
Bin. shell from an Austrian cruiser had
gone in one side and out the other, with-
out finding anything in its way solid
enough to start the fuse working ; and
no wonder, because the plating there was
only |in. mild steel, and bulged visibly
in and out whenever a heavy sea smashed
against it.
The midship ventilators and most of
the deck-plating have gone now, but
while they remained they were very
badly pitted and pocked, as if someone
had chewed them—a sad thing for a
well-kept ship. They got like that when
some very bad ammunition exploded
prematurely, as the ship was firing at
what all hands believed to be a German
submarine. The shots were falling "very
close to the target when the prematures
occurred, and when the excitement was
over, the target managed to identify
herself as an Allied —Italian —torpedo-
boat.
And somewhere on the ship’s bottom,
now spitted on the rocks or buried deep in
the mud, are 13 plates which were put
on in Plymouth after she had just barely
lived through a tremendous cyclone in
the Bay of Biscay. She had steamed out
into the Bay in the teeth of the cyclone,
and snored away into it, head to sea,
until the fuel ran low. Then she had
to turn round and run back to port for
shelter. A fearful sea caught her beam
when she was halfway round, and rolled
her over to an angle never contemplated
by her designers. Another ship might
have kept on rolling and never seen port
again ; but she was always a lucky one,
and got off with 13 bottom plates stove-in
and every breakable object on board
smashed. And in the end she made it
back to Ferrol, in Spain, to try again.
'T'here are a lot of memories in the
old hulk. Some of them are solemn ;
such as that when the ship’s company,
crew of the first Australian ship to pass
{Continued on page 45)


POLITICAN POINTS
With the election campaign in its
final stages party attitudes towards the
poll are in interesting contrast. The
Government assumes it will win the Reps,
and is plugging hard for a Senate
majority. Labor talks confidently of what
it will do when it takes over, yet it
knows full well that its prospects of a
majority in the Lower House are slim
and its crfances of getting control of the
Senate nil. The D.L.P. knows it hasn’t
a hope, but that doesn’t deter it from
talking about what it will do if called
on to form a Government. Then there
are the Corns. —who just go along for
the ride.
• •
Hope springs eternal in Independent
Senate candidates, but the spring doesn’t
get them far. Under proportional-
representation, in theory, Independents
should have a reasonable chance, but
under p.-r. with a State-wide electorate
they haven't an earthly.
The quota required to elect a N.S.W.
senator at the last election was 289,044.
No man without a party to back him
or at least an organisation covering the
whole State can hope to come within
cooee of that sort of total. In 1955 the
highest score of first-preferences by an
Independent waj. 8962. Even with the
pickings from other Independents and
elected candidates this built-up to only
18,214.
Yet there are five Independents in the
N.S.W. Senate field on Saturday. Best
known is Dr. Charles De Monchaux,
who stood as Liberal candidate against
Maxie Falstein in Watson in 1946.
• •
Speaking at a Labor rally in the
Domain on Sunday Premier Cahill men-
tioned the profit-sharing scheme of the
Lincoln Electric Co., whose new factory
at Padstow he recently opened. Saying
that nobody in the factory worked more
than 44 days a week, he remarked :
If ii is found that one great industry
can do this, then surely it is up to the
Government to see whether the application
of such a principle would not help to solve
the unemployment problem that now
confronts us?
Getting rid of unemployment by reduc-
ing working-hours is an old Labor
remedy, but Joe's facts aren’t quite right.
Correction —his facts are right but his
assumptions wrong. Lincoln Electric
employees fit 40 hours into their 44- days.
• •
D.L.P. chances of winning a Senate
seat in Victoria are strengthened by the
fact that six Senators are required instead
of five. This has the effect of reducing
the quota of votes required to elect a
candidate from 16.7 per cent, to 14.3 per
cent. On the other hand, the party drew
first place on the ballot-paper in 1955 ;
this time the bonus goes to the A.L.P.
At the last election McManus was the
fifth Senator elected.
In Tasmania first place wasn’t enough
to put a D.L.P. man in last time, though
Virgil Morgan ran Liberal Senator
Wardlaw very close for the fifth vacancy.
This time the D.L.P. is again first on the
list, with Senator Cole as head of the
team. His prestige as Parliamentary
leader of the D.L.P. (membership two)
and the interest aroused by the Hursey
case might bring him the extra support
needed to keep him in the Senate.
Senator Byrne (Q.L.P.) must also be
given a good chance of retaining his seat.
At the State election his party polled 23
per cent, of the votes. Byrne needs 16.7
per cent, to keep his job.
• •
The rate of home-building is rising
again, according to figures released last
week by the Commonwealth Statistician.
Completions for the September quarter
totalled 19,876, which was higher than
in the two previous quarters ; commence-
ments were 21,235, compared with 19,493
in the June quarter and 18,920 in the
September quarter last year.
Stagnation in housing is one of the
sticks Labor has been using to flog the
Government with. It seems to have
snapped. So does Arthur CalwelFs
favorite stick, unemployment. On Sun-
day it was reported from Canberra that
unemployment had fallen for the fourth
month in succession. A survey by the
Department of Labor showed a fall of
3543 in the number of persons registered
for employment at the end of October,
compared with the end of September.
There was also a drop of 2176 in the
number receiving unemployment benefits,
and there was an increase of 4020 in the
number of vacancies registered at the
Commonwealth Employment Office.
Totals at the end of October were:
registered for employment, 56,779 ;
receiving unemployment benefit, 23,826 ;
vacancies, 24,133.
The number registered for employment
(56,779) is about 1.4 per cent, of the work-
force. The percentage is highest in
Westralia (2.1 per cent.); lowest in Vic-
toria and South Australia (1.1 p.c.). In
New South Wales the figure is 1.4 per
cent.
"Underneath the Lamplight, By the Barrack Gate..."


For its performance of Malcolm
Arnold’s “Grand, Grand Overture”
Sydney Symphony Orchestra included
among its “instruments” three vacuum-
cleaners, a floor-polisher and a starter’s
pistol. Fair enough, but no Sydney
symphony could be completely realistic
unless the orchestra included a battery
of parking-meters and a rank of poker-
machines.
0 0
At the Wool Inquiry in Sydney a letter
from the N.S.W. and Queensland Wool-
buyers’ Association to the Department of
Primary Industry was read. It said that
the association felt very strongly that
there was “no room for criticism in the
practice of one firm bidding for other
buyers.” In other words, it was as right
as pie!
0 0
From Labor’s viewpoint some of its safe
seats are too strongly held and could
well spare a few truckloads of surplus
votes for use elsewhere. The heart of
industrial Sydney, for example, includes
the electorates of East Sydney, West
Sydney, Dailey, Grayndler and Watson.
The combined Labor majority in these
five seats at the last election was 88,000
votes, with an additional 12,000 Com-
munist votes held in reserve. Surpluses
in safe Liberal seats are not on such a
grand scale as this, and the pattern is
similar in metropolitan electorates in
other States.
0 0
If the N. S. Wales Dead-or-Alive
Defamation Bill becomes law the Sydney
“Herald’s” financial editor will have to
think very carefully before he writes this
sort of thing: “In the marriage of the
staid old Robert Reid with the adven-
turous young David Murray, there seems
to be no doubt who is wearing the
trousers.”
0 0
A Government - owned company to
exploit the fishing resources of the Great
Australian Bight has been registered in
Adelaide. Miivster for Primary Industry
William McMahon told a meeting at
Port Lincoln (S.A.) that the Federal
Government would make available from
the Fisheries Development Trust Account
£150,000 as capital for the co., and a
further £llO,OOO as a loan to cover the
cost of a modern trawler and
establishment-expenses. '
The object is to develop the venture
to a point where it is commercially suc-
cessful and then to invite private enter-
prise to take it over —a decision that will
no doubt evoke from the Labor Opposi-
tion cries of “selling-out the people’s
assets.”
0 0
Vic. Transport Minister Warner seems
painfully surprised at the reluctance of
private-bus operators to take over where
country rail-services have been discon-
tinued because of low patronage ; for
every rail-passenger, a hundred now
travel by car. Warner has been asking
country meetings how much money the
railways are justified in losing to keep
a service going. Obviously the private
bus-operators are asking themselves a
similar question.
• •
The Doc.’s adoption of the slogan
“We must spend our way to prosperity”
was taken-up by Menzies in one of his
national broadcasts. He said that Labor
men “certainly would not give this advice
to themselves or to their wives if they
were spending money that had been
earned or saved.”
There’s one possible exception—Arthur
Calwell might. In February, 1951, he
advised his audience at Brighton Town
Hall (Vic.) “Buy all you can. Don’t save
your money, bechuse the position is
going to be desperate... .Put your money
into goods before prices rise further.”
At that time prices were rising, but
Arthur’s panic advice was calculated to
send ’em up higher. He has never re-
vealed whether he followed it himself.
• •
In view of Russian accusations that
America aims at controlling the moon
for use as a base from which to launch
attacks on Russia the Soviet astronomer’s
claim to have sighted a volcanic erup-
tion on the moon is obviously erroneous.
The “reddish outline around the Alfons
crater” which he reported was most
likely the glow of the camp-fires of the
U.S. advance-party. If he uses a more
powerful telescope he will no doubt be
able to identify the Coca-Cola signs.
• •
Youngest candidate in Saturday’s elec-
tion is I. 8.. C. Wilson, 26-year-old Liberal
candidate for Adelaide. A son of Keith
Wilson, M.H.R. for Sturt, he was South
Australian Rhodes Scholar for 1955,
graduated in law at Cambridge and was
called to the Bar in London early this
year. Adelaide has been a Labor seat
since 1943, but Cyril Chambers, its repre-
sentative for 15 years, lost the nomination
through his criticism of Dr. Evatt, and
the Labor candidate on Saturday is J. C.
Sexton. The third starter is B. Ryan
(D.L.P.).
In the present unhappy condition of
Labor supporters in the electorate this
youngest candidate could become the
youngest M.H.R.
• •
Victoria’s second university is to be
situated at Clayton, about 12 miles
south-east of Melbourne, the Victorian
Cabinet decided last week. Named
Monash University, in honor of the man
who led the first A.I.F. in World War I
and later established the brown-coal in-
dustry at Yallourn, it will be ready to
receive its first students in 1960 and will
ultimately accommodate 8000.
• #
Only the Gallup Poll, perhaps, is a
surer indication of a Government win
in the Federal elections in Victoria than
the apathy of unionists for rallies
organised by the Melbourne Trades Hall
to protest against this or that. Although
thousands of leaflets were distributed to
advertise an equal-pay rally at the Trades
Hall, and some hard work was done by
a small band of enthusiasts styling them-
selves the Equal Pay committee, only 40
turned up at the latest “monster protest,”
and 19 of these were men.
It was hardly indicative of a revolt
against the Government by the unionist
voters, who apparently believe things
aren’t too bad ; even the chance to hear
Dr. Cairns, the Labor oracle on finance,
didn’t attract them.
• •
Queensland seems to make a habit of
throwing-up new political parties. Shortly
after World War II the Service Party of
Australia ran a team for the Senate and
tackled a number of seats in the Repre-
sentatives, without success. At the 1953
Senate election Sir Raphael Cilento,
economist H. W. Herbert and C. W.
Russell, former Country-party member
for Maranoa, formed a team under the
name Democratic party. This year the
Loyalist League of Rights is running
two candidates for the Senate and the
National Party of Australia is tackling
five metropolitan seats in the Reps.
• •
Bandaranaike’s Government in Ceylon,
faced with grave domestic unrest and
unemployment, has proposed “an eco-
nomic conference of the Bandoeng
Powers.” One Colombo commentator
has observed that while the idea of eco-
nomic co-operation is sound, and a con-
ference in the right spirit and directed
towards practical decisions can be fruit-
ful, any such talks would have to “avoid
repeating platitudes, airing eloquence,
and building people up.”
• •
“Stromlo”: When the Duke of
Edinburgh told the English Speaking
Union conference in Ottawa on October
30 that the union existed to build and
maintain better personal knowledge and
relationships between all the peoples of
the world who used English as a con-
venient common language, he reminded
the delegates that the Commonwealth
now consisted of 10 fully-independent
States, a number which would rise to
12 when Nigeria and the West Indies
became equal members. He added that
good relations between Britain and the
U.S. were “still the linchpin of the free
world.”
• •
[From Sir Herbert Ilyland, Leader of tlie
Country party, Victoria]
My attention has been drawn to a
statement in B. 15/10/’5B in relation to
a display of bread by master-bakers at
North Melbourne. Your facts are en-
tirely wrong. 1 did not open the exhibi-
tion ; in fact I doubt very much whether
it was opened by anyone. Several mem-
bers of the Liberal party and Labor
party attended, and I represented the
Country party. My party’s idea always
is to learn—particularly in regard to the
foodstuffs of the nation.


Personal
IT E MS
Sir William Slim follows Prince Philip
to become the Second Freeman of Mel-
bourne. As the Earlier Melburnians had
impoverished him at Flemington, this
honor may have been some compensation
for him.
• •
One of those disarmingly cherubic
Englishmen who look as if they have
just dashed in, fresh from the shower,
after batting for the school’s First Eleven,
but who are, in fact, capable of any kind
of derring-do you care to mention, Angus
Maude, the Sydney “Herald’s” new
editor, made his first public appearance
in the literary world at the annual dinner
of the English Association at Sydney
University. Surrounded by some very
nice Streetons and Heysens and the
assembled throng of poets, novelists,
critics and university lecturers, he spoke
very quietly, balancing on his knuckles
between the tall-necked bottles of hock.
His subject was “largon” mostly
journalistic and bureaucratic. As he
moved steadily from point to point,
speaking entirely without notes, never for
a moment losing direction, constantly and
unfalteringly witty, it gradually became
apparent that one was listening to a
masterpiece of after-dinner speaking—the
perfect speech for the occasion, perfectly
clone. Mr. Maude will be in some
demand around the town for this sort of
thing.
• •
“Uramao”: Until recently director of
lesearch for Firestone Rubber Planta-
tions in Liberia (West Africa), Dr.
Kenneth G. Mclndoe is now going to
the parent company in Akron, Ohio, as
research-adviser. He comes from an
Otago (N.Z.) family Dr. Archie
Mclndoe, the famous plastic-surgeon in
England, is a brother, and their mother
was one of the ablest N.Z. watercolor
artists (she worked under the name of
Mabel Hill, being a sister of Alfred Hill,
the composer).
• •
After 28 years as superintendent of
Westralia’s National Park, 65-year-old
Walter de Atta is knocking-off. Stocky,
vigorous, rather reticent, born at Gerald-
ton (W.A.) of French ancestry, he took
charge of the park when it was almost
virgin bush and has turned it into a
beautiful holiday-resort and animal-
sanctuary. He has collected specimens
of every known species of Westralian
wildflower and cultivated them success-
fully, and has also introduced native
animals and birds, including several
species of kangaroo and platypus
obtained through the co-operation of Sir
Edward Hallstrom.
James F. Lincoln (pictured below),
chairman of the Lincoln Electric Co.,
of Euclid, Ohio (U.S.A.), was in
Sydney last week to open the Aus-
tralian company's new factory. He's
a millionaire, but still on a salary of
.3 50 dollars a month plus one per cent,
commission on gross sales. These are
the terms on which he joined his brother’s
backyard factory in 1908. Gross sales
of the American company alone
amounted to nearly 50-million dollars
INCENTIVES
last year, so it's unlikely he worries much
if he misses his pay-cheque.
He pioneered the incentive-payment
and profit-sharing system of management,
on the theory that man's most powerful
motive force is selfishness. He considers
that the greatest heights man can attain
—patriotism, parenthood and friendship
—are all the outcome of this incentive.
“Make selfishness intelligent," he claims,
“and you can tap resources you never
imagined to exist.” His crusade has
spread through most of the English-
speaking countries, and the results of
the Lincoln Co. prove that the theory
can’t be far wrong. He rates Australia
the country of the future.
• •
Now on his way back to England via
N.Z. and America, the Wellcome
Foundation's director of veterinary re-
search, Dr. Robert Francis Montgomerie,
is a Scot who was born in the Isle of
Bute. Though he now lives on a farm in
Kent (Eng.), he still has the soft, lilting
speech of his birthplace. His Australian
visit was for the purpose of investi-
gating diseases of livestock and poultry,
and deciding what research the founda-
tion can do to help primary producers.
• •
After having been on a health-survey of
Israel, Dr. Sam Worth has come to Aus-
tralia to lecture at Sydney University on
nervous and mental diseases. A New
York professor of psychiatry and
neurology, and travelling medical scientist
for the World Health Organisation, he’s
an authority on the new techniques,
including the use of drugs for treating
mental illness.
• •
Dr. A. R. H. Cole, of Perth, is certainly
building up a handsome sort of record in
scholarships. Graduating with first-class
honors in chemistry from the Westralian
University in 1946, he went to Oxford
on a Hackett scholarship in the following
year, qualified for his doctorate of
philosophy, then won a post-doctoral
fellowship on which he worked for two
years with the Research Council ot
Canada (the equivalent of the C.5.1.R.0.).
Returning to Perth on a research-
fellowship, he was appointed senior
lecturer in physical chemistry in the
Westralian University in 1955 and these
days is a reader. And now a Fulbright
scholarship is taking him for a year to
the Oregon State College and Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology.
• V
Appointed air-officer in charge of
administration, Far East Air Force, Air-
Vice-Marshal E. M. Fitzfrederick
Grundy, 0.8. E., was in New Zealand on
interchange duties when war broke out
in 1939. He’s lately been chairman of
the Nato Military Agency for Standard-
isation.
• •
New head of Malvern (Vic.) Memorial
Grammar School, D. B. Coutts is a
former head of Huntingtower and one-
time editor of the “Australian Educa-
tional Review." Founder, too, of Mel-
bourne University Literary Society, he
was a leading public-school athlete in his
younger days.
• •
Born in New Zealand 70 years ago,
Herbert McPherson Barker started look-
ing for adventure as soon as he left
school in England. He tried Canada
first, then jackerooed in Queensland’s
outback ; moved to the north-west of
Westralia in 1911 ; started his own sheep-
station —and got interested in camels.
That was before motor-vehicles and
aircraft, and travelling the desert meant
camel-train or per foot Starting with
five camels in harness, Barker soon found
it better to get a large wagon for his
own carting and drive a team of 18.
To help pay for the running of his
station, he also began to contract as a
carrier for other farmers—and so, living
thus with camels for 18 years, he has
a specialist’s credentials for the book
about the oonts and the part they
played in the development of Australia


which he’s now writing (with a good
word for the Afghan, too, he says).
Back in N.Z. in 1930, he was muster-
ing on a high-country Sheep-station in
the South Island when he fell over a
cliff, with damage that cost him his
left arm. This made a tough job of
woolpressing, so he invented and
patented a new design of horizontal
mobile press. Maybe that made it too
easy ; anyway, he pushed-off once more
—this time to the Northern Territory,
for 10 years of prospecting for gold and
wolfram. For a change, he’s now living
at Glenelg (S.A.), but he’s itching again
for fresh fields —for another change . . .
back to the bush.
0 0
Humphrey Wood, chairman of the
International Wool Secretariat, is on a
two-month tour of Australia and New
Zealand and will address public meet-
ings in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
on the promotion of the use of wool
overseas, as well as visiting S.A. and
Westralia. Until his appointment to the
International Wool Secretariat about
three years ago he was sales-director of
Felt and Textiles. English-born but
Australian by adoption, he’s a well-
known Sydneysider.
0 0
Frank Calloway, elected to the board
of directors of the International Society
for Musical Education at this year’s
general assembly in Copenhagen, is a
New Zealand violinist and pianist who
has been reader in music at the Westra-
lian University since 1952. After graduat-
ing from Otago University he studied in
Britain and the U.S. under a Carnegie
award, collecting a sheaf of diplomas
and a Fellowship of London’s Trinity
College. Back in N.Z. in 1942, he was
picked to take charge of music at King
Edward College, Dunedin, and was
appointed spare-time lecturer in music at
his old university, Otago. While there, he
organised music in the Dominion’s adult-
education schools, and trained a choir
of 1000 voices in Dunedin.
PERCE NICHOLLS, for 25 years, till
1955, with Ford Motors in India, now
their district-manager in South Australia.
Son of the W. P. Nicholls who was head-
piaster of Pulteney Grammar School for
40 years.
In December Norwegian health-expert
Dr. Jon Bjomsson will begin a study of
Australia, or some of it. Here under a
Rockefeller grant (which includes a
health and social study of N.Z. also),
Bjornsson will make Melbourne his h.q.,
giving most of his attention to N.S.W.
and Victoria.
• •
Ric Throssell, son of novelist Katharine
Susannah Prichard, is well on the way
to becoming Australia’s most prolific
playwright. His new play, “Legend,”
sponsored by the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust, is the 18th he has written since
1943. Three of his one-act plays have
won first-prizes in competitions and he
was awarded a six-months’ fellowship by
the Commonwealth Literary Fund last
year to write two plays.
0 0
“P.A.”: Viscount Bracken (B. 20/8/’5B) was
an assistant-master at Wolaroi Grammar School
in Orange (N.S.W.) about 1919. As a pupil
there I came under his jurisdiction. C. R.
Campbell was the headmaster, and Bracken
was there when All Saints College came from
Bathurst under Sid Styles and amalgamated with
Wolaroi. Bracken was a man you remembered.
Tall, with fiery red hair that stood erect in
warning to sloths and dullards, he did us all
a lot of good, even though maybe we were a
bit young to guess the “drive” and the “do”
contained in that spare, tall body.
On my way through London in 1940 I had
written him —I felt I owed him congratulations
for the activity and positive thought he injected
into the English-speaking world from the day
he took the portfolio of Minister for Informa-
tion under Churchill. He was good enough to
invite me to tea.
I found the fiery hair had changed to white,
though it still defied his barber’s attempts to
tame it. Gone, too, was any sign of the former,
almost visible wish to “grab-a-shillelagh-and-
finish-the-argument”; but the impatience and
intolerance to diversive argument or thought
were still in evidence. I enjoyed tremendously
his accurate and pleasant memories of Orange,
its people and its college.
As I recall him, the word “can’t” didn’t
exist in his vocabulary, and his unceasing drive
did more than a little to shape many of us at
Wolaroi into better citizens.
0 0
Rear-Admiral R. S. Wellby, C. 8.,
D. 5.0., head of the U.K. Joint Services
Liaison Staff in Canberra, is to be suc-
ceeded in February by Air-Vice-Marshal
F. S. Stapleton, D. 5.0., D.F.C., a War II
Spitfire pilot who has been Senior Air
Staff-Officer, No. 13 Group, Fighter
Command, since October, 1957.
• *
Seeking some incidental information,
The Bulletin asked an architect about
staircases. He looked vaguely worried
and said, “Heaven knows what we’ll do
when Toddy goes.” Subsequent investi-
gation suggested that the staircase situa-
tion should be all right for some time,
“Toddy,” alias Arthur William Tod,
turning out to be an exceptionally busy
and energetic man. In the midst of
curiously, and beautifully, shaped lengths
of maple he stated modestly that there
are a few other people (“a bare handful”)
in Sydney who can “properly set and
twist a wreath”—which is one of the
simpler expressions related to the art,
craft and mathematics of the staircase
and handrail expert. Tod, whose work
graces the M.L.C. and A.M.P. castles,
Unilever House, St. Vincent’s Hospital,
and many other buildings, came from
London to Sydney at the age of seven
with his father, the late F. W. Tod, a
woodcarver whose work ornaments many
STAIRCASES
churches in and around the city. They
worked together, the younger man turn-
ing to staircases and handrailing during
the depression and finally branching-out
on his own in 1938 to concentrate
entirely in that field. In 1945 he estab-
lished his own works at St. Peters,
thriving there on high-quality joinery
and cabinetwork and, of course, staircases
and handrailing. Then, just as this para-
graph was going to the printer, word
arrived that Tod’s premises had been
completely gutted by fire. Obviously,
however, you can’t keep a staircase-
maker down and, after a brief interval,
there’s no doubt the staircase situation
will be well in hand again.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 74, Sir Clive McPherson,
chairman of Younghusband, Ltd., and member
of the board of the National Bank of
Australasia.
In Melbourne, at 81, Professor Frederick
Austin Pitman, Associate of the Royal College
of Music, and founder of the Victorian Railways
Institute Choir.
In Fremantle (W.A.), at 54, Clement Andrew
Gough, former State A.L.P. president, secretary
of the W.A. Amalgamated Society of Railway
Employees, member of the North Fremantle
Municipal Council, and president of the North
Fremantle Bowling Club. He was also a
foundation-member of the State Electricity
Commission.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 70, Group-Captain
T. M. Wilkes, C.8.E., M.C., pioneer aviator of
the Kaiser’s War and later N.Z. controller of
civil aviation. In War II he was N.Z. liaison-
officer with the Australian and American air-
services.
In Melbourne, at 56, Florio Bedford, youngest
son of Randolph Bedford’s family, born in
Florence, Italy, when Randolph was mining
expert to the Italian Government. Florio
served in the armored division in World
War 11.


ABORIGINALITIES
Tn long observation of nestlings on their
first flights l have noted that
all the tree-nesting species of ducks —
black, grey and chestnut teal, widgeons
and musk—carry their young to the
ground when they are old enough to
leave the nest. The young kookaburra
is definitely taught to fly, as is the lovely
soaring eagle. Strangely, the named
tree-ducks nest on the ground, and
always far from water.
The procedure of the tree-nesters,
watched through binoculars, is to push
the duckling squarely on its parent's
back, well up on the neck ; the parent
bird then glides to earth, turns its head
and prods the youngster off. I’ve seen
five brought down from a single nest.
The kookaburras nesting for three
years in a dead tree at my back - door
in Burragorang Valley (N.S.W.) always
gave a warning of a youngster's flying-
lesson by the hullabaloo of both parents
and child. One, forced to fly to the
branch of a tree about syds. away, re-
fused to fly back to the nest in spite of
hard pecks from parental beaks. After
one good pecking (the birds always flew
back to the nest as an example to the
nestling) baby took a twig in its mouth
and gave it a good shaking, emitting
loud quarks like a naughty child.
The eagle does a four-day test-flight
round about the nest before actually
taking to the air, and is always accom-
panied by one parent. After a fortnight
of flight and soaring, both parents con-
duct the bird on a farewell flight—lovely
to watch. The three birds soar higher
and higher for about half-an-hour;
then the parents wheel in one direction
and the eaglet goes on into the blue,
never to return.
Halque.
* * $ *
“Bigend”: The sudden appearance of
shoals of fish in the new Mary Kathleen
Dam in North Queensland set everyone
wondering, but no one could provide a
feasible explanation. Now thousands of
cormorants have arrived on the scene and
are cleaning-up the fish like nobody’s
business. Where the birds came from
—to say nothing of who told them—
is an even greater mystery.
* * * *
“Eliza”: In a strip of parkland near
the St. Kilda (Vic.) football-ground there
are several tables with built-in seats on
either side. The top of each cement
table is made into two draught-boards,
and elderly folk sit there in the sun whiling
away the hours. These oldsters must feel
mere babes when they look at another
veteran standing nearby—a battered,
possum-scratched old gumtree that wears
around its girth a plaque stating that it
was the meeting-place for the black-
fellows’ corroborees.
“Do you think we'd better move to another corner?”
“J.A.V.”: It was a fine crop by any
standards, and I congratulated the owner.
“Ah, yes,” he said. “It’s a fine crop,
all right, but it’s taken a hell of a lot out
of the ground.”
# * * *
“Sevenelms”: In Hong Kong milk is
55 cents the f-pint bottle, or 2s. 3yd. a
pint in Australian money. It is machine-
milked thrice daily from 800 Austra-
lian Ayrshires, Jerseys and Friesians
that cost about £9B each to land.
The 350 - acre farm at Pok Fu
Lum is so precipitous that no cows
graze, but are fed in their milking-
sheds with sickle-cut grass (Penisetum
purpurea). The Scots manager says that
the 250 Hock Lo herdsmen are a tough
bunch, but they’ve calved only two dead
calves in two years. He suffers from
labor-turnover, because he pays these
“wage-slaves” from Red China £l7 a
month, plus housing, food, etc., and in
12 months they sock away a poultice and
return home to Swatow and buy a farm,
all of which apparently has the approval,
tacit or otherwise, of Mr. Mao.
* * * *
“D.W.”: Wauchope (N.S.W.) solicitor
Don Sanderson smiled ruefully as
the giggling subsided at a district-court
case ; he had asked the owner of the
horse that died from a rifle-shot on a
pea-patch what sex was the colt?
* * * •
“Cygnet”: Add to the list of quaint
placenames “Kindred,” in Tasmania —
so called because a large proportion of
the early settlers in the district became
related to one another through marriage,
etc. One would expect to find a Paradise
in the Apple Isle, of course, but some
other town-names also in the telephone-
directory include Plenty, Snug, and
Detention. “Hell’s Gates" is another
well-known name, but I haven't seen it
listed in the phone-book!
* * * *
T'vr. Humphrey, chief of the C.5.1.R.0.’s
fisheries division, is reported
as saying that the Bight could
become a major source of Australia’s
fish-supply, and it’s known the Federal
Government visualises four or five
trawlers operating the known grounds
out there. From 1949 a company—or,
rather, two associated companies—fished
the Bight for over two years with two
trawlers, which they’d been warned were
unsuitable, and the venture failed. They
did enough work, however, to indicate
the Bight’s resources and that modem
ships supplying a prepared market would
ON THE GOLD COAST
When one is lying on the sands
Of Surfers’ Paradise,
One’s apt to long for monkey-glands
And little bits of vice.
One's apt to dream of naughty nights
Amid the frangipani
One might have had with Isobel
Or Cynthia or Fanny.
One’s apt to muse on daring things,
Like sneaking up, perhaps.
Behind the pink Bikini-girls
And severing the straps.
One's apt to feel he plays the role
Of grey, but gay, deceiver
And step out looking ludicrous
In garb of Ivy Leaguer.
One’s apt to think he’s young enough
To captivate a honey.
Alas, he must have either'youth
Or money, money, money.
N.S.W.
LAN HEALY.


*
I 6£u6ve Th£RE'(.l. S€ fIVS
HUNPrEO AND &&KTy PEORue
__ on Tug special. Excursion train
prom -the crry coming to
iNSPECr OUR OAftPGNS PURI NO
CS ™ e florau rtsnvAu. "
*Yes, an (? i believe there 'll ee
A UOT OP Boys ASOOT TEN OR TWELVE
YEARS OU>. THEY can't SEEM TO HE UP
TRYING TO CUM 6 EVERY TREE THEY SEE
OR HAV/NO A GO AT Pot LING
IT OP 6Y THE ROOTS . "


have a better than even-money chance
of success. The principal fish out there
are red snapper, swallowtail, nannygai,
jackass, several species of boarfish, flat-
head, and silver flounder. One of the
two trawlers averaged over 30001 b. of
fish per day’s absence from port
(Albany) and the other averaged over
25001 b. That compares pretty well with
29241 b. a day averaged by steam trawlers
working the south - east Australian
grounds at about the same time. There
are 10,000 square - miles of known
grounds in the Bight, estimated to be
capable of yielding over 10,000,0001 b. of
fish a year.—“ Salmon Gums.”
*.* * *
“Video": Returning to work on a
Sunday, stopped at the roadside pub in
a N.Q. sugar district: Football-game at
the back, beer-garden well patronised,
and the bar full-blast. Soft ’n sweet
music coming over the p.a. Everyone
happy. The music faded ; a courtly
voice said: “Please drink-up, gentlemen,
“‘ Collar-and-tie Workers may get pay-rise — that's what the newspaper said”
and leave quiety—the police are here.’
We drank-up and filed out to watch the
football. The police were there, backs
to the pub, watching play on the tennis-
court. Came half-time at the Soccer-
game ; 22 parched players, a dry referee
and about 30 thirsty supporters viewed
the closed doors with consternation. The
Law removed tunics and took to the
courts (tennis) for an energetic set of
singles. Game over, they departed on
their lawful occasions, and it was busi-
ness as usual.
TI/'here’s “Wippegong”? Here’s the
bird’s description. About six inches
long, medium build (not as plump as a
Jacky Winter), olive-grey or olive-brown
on back (like the honeyeater color),
front a rusty cream or white, no mark-
ings noticed around throat or head.
Straight bill, not the curved honeyeater
bill. Main characteristic? The most
astonishing whistler for his size ever
heard on this or the other side of the
Black Stump. He (or she) was the star-
turn at Duntryleague, the home of the
Orange (N.S.W.) Golf Club, on the Six-
hour weekend (first Monday in October),
where he took-up his position in the
heavy foliage of a big oleander bush, and
delighted his audience with the most
exuberant, melodious whistling ever
heard in those parts. There was nothing
formal or set about his musical piece,
as there is in the case of the whipbird.
This fellow whistled like a high-powered
canary, only more so, and at the peak
of his song had one regular item —
“Pretty, pretty, pretty!” When turning
it on, his beak opened at an angle of
130 degrees. This went on while daylight
lasted for several days. When (or what)
he ate I can’t imagine, though there were
fantails and honeyeaters feeding in
numbers in the bushes around him. —
“D.A.”
• » * *
“Liar Ben”: Tell “Acombe” (B.
29/10/’5B) that “Ceg” (B. 10/9/’5B)
didn’t say that tank was full of “rain-
water.” In Queensland the artesian-water
reticulated to many outback townships is
their main supply, and often leaves the
borehead near boiling-point; on-tap in
town it is often well above scalding-
point (145 deg. F.). Anyone jumping
into a recently filled tank of this type of
M'ater certainly would run the risk of
being parboiled. In some areas the bore-
water is most unpalatable, hot or cold ;
in others, when cooled in tanks or water-
bags, it’s far more satisfying than rain-
water, once a taste is acquired.
* * * *
“Dagworth Dan”: I recall those
green, rubbery, freshwater tortoises (B.
29/10/’5B) fouling my fishing-lines in
the Thomson River at Longreach (C.Q.)
20-odd years ago, so they must have
spread. And I can tell H. G. Lamond
that the leeches still abound in the Con
Hole at Elderslie at certain times of the
year. Also, I admit that I’ve never seen
them in any other waterholes around the
district, and I’ve fished the lot. Inci-
dentally, why are there big, first-class
eating “jewies” in the Thomson (I’ve
caught them up to 61b.), but in its nearby
sister river, the Diamantina, only small
replicas (jib. is the biggest I’ve seen)?
* * * *
“Kelms”: Rottnest, the island resort
12 miles from Fremantle (W.A.), is hav-
ing crow trouble, and a group of duck-
shooters taken over for the purpose
brought down 200 in a weekend. A
sanctuary for birds and game, Rottnest
has some species you mightn’t expect to
find there —mountain-ducks, for instance,
and also dabchicks (for these poor flyers
that 12-mile ocean flight is quite a -feat).
But what prompts land-birds to fly to
these offshore islands? I’ll skip the
swallows and the swifts—they’d get there
in any case, hawking for the insect-
swarms that get carried out with the
winds ; but some birds deliberately leave
apparently ideal conditions on the main-
land to take pot-luck on a few square-
miles of rock they probably can’t even
see when they start out. Even some of
the honeyeaters, usually regarded as
strictly forest-birds, visit some of the
islands offshore, and some even appear
to nest there.
% 3{C #
“J.K.H.”: The Amiens branch-line
(B. 29/10/’5B) was built in the early
’twenties to serve Diggers on the Pikedale
(Q.) soldiers’ settlement which was
opened-up by the Queensland Government
after World War I. Naturally, the
Diggers wanted the stations on the line
named after battles they had fought
and won, and the Government conceded
their request. Pikedale had a very
chequered existence during its early
years. It is situated in the fruit-growing
granite-belt, and orchards were planted,
but lack of finance caused many of the
Diggers to walk off their holdings before
the trees came into profit. Inexperience,
too, as well as inefficient supervision by
the Government, contributed to their
failure. World War 11, with soaring
fruit-prices, put the orchardists on their
feet. Today the district is a “little Italy,”
many Italians having bought properties
and settled there.


TTow is it some go - getter doesn’t
wake-up to the potential of Aus-
tralian woods apart from making
souvenir monstrosities from what might
be mulga but most likely isn’t? I’ve
just been turning a bit of myall more
than 20 years old, and its delicate violet
scent is just as fresh as the day it was cut
out Nevertire way. Scent’s better than
anything in the guinea-a-drop class. —
“Inglegar.”
* * * *
“Myall”: The star-gazer, an odd and
fearsome-looking fish, grows to an aver-
age length of 12in. The eyes are set
close together on the top of the head,
and the mouth opens vertically instead
of horizontally, making the fish extremely
ugly. Its large head is encased in hard
bone, which also forms the gill-covers.
The most odd feature is the periscope
extension to the eyes; in a full-grown speci-
men these can be extended upward from
the skull for more than Lin., looking like
two small horns. The star-gazer is closely
allied to the angler-fishes, and when in
search of prey buries itself in the sand,
leaving only the eyes and mouth, which
is held wide open, above the surface. A
small filament near the tongue is moved
from side to side, and this entices small
fish into the cavity.
NINA'S NOVELTIES
TJossibly some reckless Australian did
A say to a certain visitor, one Nina
Pulliam, “I’m giving you the straight
wire,” but can we really be expected to
believe that he added, “Honest to dinkum
1 am”?
The fact appears to be that Nina, an
American columnist and feature-writer,
got her Australian jottings a trifle mixed
in some instances and (maybe because
of her surname) had her shapely leg
pulled in others; and so, alas, she has
often fallen into fantasy in her 400-page,
American-published book, / Travelled a
Lonely Land.
That, indeed, is regrettable, for the
visitor was cordial and well-meaning, as
is manifest in the dedication of her book :
“To the flora, the fauna and the folks
of Australia who generously helped, me
to see and to know them and their great
Lonely Land —with affection and
thanks.”
Anyway, setting folks and the land
itself aside, let’s look at a few of Nina’s
natural-history novelties and add brief
comments in parenthesis:
Bowerbird fancies: “There really is a bower-
bird in Australia,” says our author, and this
queer creature “loves to collect blue things to
decorate his nest.” (Australia possesses, in fact,
seven species of bowerbirds, and in each case
what Nina terms the “nest” is a display-arbor
and playground, something quite distinct from
the tree-placed structure in which the eggs are
laid.)
Brush-turkey tattle: “They say that from time
to time fear seizes this pessimistic bird, and he
goes and digs down into the nest-mound and
Peers at the eggs to be sure that they’re still
there.” (Sorry to contradict a lady, but that
digging operation isn’t prompted by “pessi-
mism” ; it’s practised simply for the purpose
of testing and regulating the temperature of
the mound, and, by the way, the testing-medium
is probably the longue, or at least the mouth-
cavity.)
Lyrebird lore: Some Australian is alleged to
have told Nina that when the male lyrebird
is on his display-mound he “shykes his tyle and
gives the femyle an awful big line of gabble.”
AH the same, the bird is “exceptionally polite
and immaculate—he never leaves his droppings
in sight but carefully picks them up and
carries them away.” (Actually, the male lyre-
“He showed great promise before he took to the dope.”
bird directs his majestic song—or, heaven help
us, his “awful big line of gabble”!—to the
world in general, and other male lyrebirds in
particular, while his mate is at a distance
tending the egg or chick. The droppings carried
away are not those of either of the adult birds,
but those of the nestling, and they are taken
only by the female, who discards them, usually
in water, at some distance from the nest.) -
Emu oddities: It appears that this “cousin-
bird of the ostrich” has “countless enemies,”
and so the female “scatters her eggs around
carelessly here and there” until the time comes
for brooding, whereupon she “manages to get
them all together in one spot.” (In fact, the
“countless enemies” of the emu are limited
largely to those who carry guns Otherwise, the
big fellow has fewer hazards than, say, a tiny
wren or robin. As for that egg-scattering
business—tut-tut!)
Kookaburra capers: It is announced by Nina
compainks
cracker-barrel gossips”), they “decide to build
a house in the nest of a congress of ants high
up in a tree, and, of course if there are any
ants living in their house at the time, the jacky
eats those first.” (Well, if the kooka. doesn’t
precisely “build a house” in a termites’ mound,
° ne for nesting parpo i es -
But, Nina, neither you nor anyone else has
ever seen this large-billed bird eating ants of
any kind. Incidentally, the termites seal-off the
made)° f the chamber as soon as the breech is
Whipbird whimsies: Oddly enough, one whip-
bird “makes a sort of wolf-call whistle and the
other replies with a faithful imitation of the
crack of a stockman s whip. (No, Nina ; the
male whipbird utters both the prelude and the
crack—which isn’t an “imitation” of anything
—and his mate follows the vocal explosion with
a “choo-choo,” or “choo-wee”; but, if she be
notes h a e s a sok>.)° er the wh ° l<? senes of
Platypus patronymics: Nina was “cautioned
not to capitalise the word platypus,” the reason
being that there is “some sort of international
gentlemen’s agreement” in regard to nomen-
clature, and as “it seems there was a bug which
had been named platypus before the little
monotreme of Australia came on the scene, it
was agreed that the bug would be called
Platypus and the little Australian would be
known as platypus.” (What happened in this
matter was that an old-time zoologist gave the
duckbill , the generic name Platypus, but soon
afterwards another zoologist pointed out that
this name had already been applied to a group
of beetles—Nina’s “bug”—and so the title was
changed to Ornithorhynchus', and the word
platypus was adopted into vernacular use
Withal, and even bearing in mind the “caution”
issued in regard to that world-wide “gentle-
men’s agreement,” it seems unlikely that an
'international incident would have been created
if Nina had given the platypus a capital P )
ems w * go on with,
They indicate, with some degree of cer-
tainty, that Nina Pulliam is not a top-
fliphter in natural hictnrv c„ on or.
nignter m natural-history. Even so, she s
a * least a few points ahead of many
Australians, both in observation and
appreciation of fauna and flora
n nn , • . . r ,
How many local residents, for example,
have watched with delight the “improb-
able nose” of the koala twitching in
?,f‘T" 7 A "? h ° w ,™" y h3Ve Jf a ? ed
a ' : eyes of the platypus are unfor-
gettable . . . restless, darting eyes, fright-
ened and strangely pleading”'?
T ,• . r , ,
tae UgM of such observations, may-
be we can forgive our visitor most of
the various little fantasies cited above.
1 ,
Perhaps, too, we can overlook her re-
christening one of our cockatoos as a
“gallah,” which spelling is at least an
,°J? an e^or t once made by
Eord Northclifte, namely “goliar.”
But, Nina, why did you allow yourself
ta he so ungracious tn the Ivrphird tn
V * to the lyrebird to
describe his brilliant song as an awful
big line of gabble” and then foist the libel
on to some anonymous bushman?
<t That action, I suggest, was really not
“honest to dinkum.”
PHIL ANTHUS.


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. URQUHART, M. D. PASSMORE, K. W. A. BRIDGES
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
25 O'CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
Telephone
BW 8171 (3 lines)
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
DAVIS. ROTHWELL & CO.
{lncorporating Headlam, Hew son & Co.)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(,Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange .)
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BL, 1855 (3 lines)
193 Summer Street, Orange-
Orange 1051
Telegraphic and Cable Address, “RETJEP,-” Sydney.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
“Pies” and “Futures”
A ssisting the inquiry (under
the Monopolies Act) by the
N.S.W. Industrial Commission
into wool-selling in N.S.W.
and the boycott by buyers of
Goulburn wool-sales (before
Cook, J.), C. L. D. Meares,
Q.C., said that the practice of
forward selling had a bad
effect on the wool-market in
N.S.W. and on the whole eco-
nomy. The forward price was
always below the current price.
Group-buying and forward
selling together had a depress-
ing effect on wool prices. Mr.
Meares said it had been sug-
gested that from 20 p.c. to 50
p.c. of the clip was sold
“forward.”
He also contended that lot-
splitting went on every after-
noon at the Wool Exchange in
Sydney. Buyers had got to-
gether and formed “pies,”
which were buying-rings or
combines.
Mr. Meares added that
buyers protected themselves
against loss under forward-
selling by a system of
“futures” on- the markets in
London, New York, Antwerp
and Roubaix. The “futures”
market could be best regarded
as a form of buyers’ insurance
Rene Moniez, principal of
Anselme Dewavrin Fils and
Co., first witness at the inquiry,
told Judge Cook that he was
in a “pie” with L. H. Bell Pty.,
Ltd. ; John Sanderson and Co.
Pty., Ltd. ; Kreglinger and
Fernau (Aust.) Pty., Ltd. ;
Simonius Vischer and Co. ;
Andre Toulmonde Wool Co.
Pty., Ltd. ; Beinssen Beir and
Co. Pty., Ltd. ; C. E. Newling
and Co. ; and S. A. M. Dasson-
ville et Cie. His firm was one
of the biggest in Sydney. He
said any member of the pie
could claim for a proportion
of wool bought. No member
could claim more than half.
If he bought wool at 50d. and
a member of the pie had a
limit of 52d., that member
could still claim from the pie
and get it at 50d.
Mr. Meares told the commis-
sion that 10 firms had bought
387,000 of the 960,000 bales
sold in Sydney last season.
With figures from Brisbane,
Newcastle and Goulburn, 10
firms had bought about 40 p.c.
of the wool offered.
Mr. Moniez said that it
would surprise him if as much
as 20 p.c. to 50 p.c. of wool
sold in the northern market was
sold on a forward basis.
Felix John Lehane, manag-
ing-director of Kreglinger and
Fernau, did not agree that
mill-owners overseas wanted
to buy forward at below the
current market. They were
inclined to buy it at the
current price. His company
had several lot - splitting
arrangements with several in-
dividual buyers. The propor-
tion of forward selling by his
co. might vary from 50 p.c.
down to nothing.
J. H. Clayton, of J. W. Mc-
Gregor and Co., said he
thought about 30 p.c. of his
co.’s business was forward
selling, though he was not
sure. McGregor’s belonged to
a number of “splits” or pies.
Jazzing Oil Shares
TCollowing the decision of
Vacuum and BP to con-
tinue financing the search for
oil in Papua, thus bypassing the
new Oil Search, Ltd., float
(Papuan Oil Search, Ltd.), there
was a slump in Oil Search ss.
shares to around 7s.
Later they spurted up to 11s.,
and Papuan Apinaipi and
Santos also firmed on active
turnover.
Clearly the market for oil-
exploration shares at present
is in an excited (not to say
distracted) state of mind. It
is susceptible to every rumor
and item of hearsay, and is a
tiger for punishment.
The position in Papua is at
its most interesting and
promising—stage since oil-
exploration began, but proving
the oil-resources of the area,
whatever they may turn out to
be, will be a long job, and
does not justify violent daily
fluctuations in the price of
Oil Search shares, much less
those of enterprises 50 or 1000
miles from Puri.
Rough Range and Puri
[From Tu. Owen]
Tn spite of very considerable
differences in location,
geological environment and
time, there are striking simi-
larities in the oils which have
been produced by the Rough
Range 1 and Puri wells. Even
the effect on hunters after un-
migrated oil that I advised
caution with reference to the
commercial prospects of the
Rough Range structure, par-
ticularly at the Birdrong
horizon. Several wells, how-
ever, were sunk to this sand,
but two of them alone —No.
3 and No. 6 —would have con-
firmed my contentions.
Puri No. 1 well, on the other
hand, was located as a result
of elimination by controlled
geological and geophysical
surveying and drilling, extend-
ing over 20 years and involv-
ing an expenditure of nearly
£A30,000,000. This work
started in the Aure trough,
where the strata were found to
earned increment—represented
by the oil-share punter—has
been qualitatively, if not
quantitatively, the same.
. The two strikes were made,
however, after very diverse
exploratory histories. Rough
Range No 1 well was the first
well drilled for oil in the
Carnarvon Basin of Western
Australia. It was located near
the surface axis of a gentle
asymmetric fold at a spot
chosen—as it was afterwards
stated—for its accessibility
rather than for strictly geo-
logical reasons. The oil —
encountered at over 2000 ft.
above the uppermost predicted
depth'—was so obviously an in-
spissated (lighter fractions
removed by evaporation)
be too impermeable, difficult
and deep to offer hopes of
commercial production, and
worked gradually westward
where .it reached permeable
beds in the Western Papua
Basin. These produced brine,
§as and finally the Pun oil
which , fl uite rightly, was the
cause of cautious optimism m
responsible circles, but, un
fortunately, produced oil-
hysteria in the same unthin
i p *S quarters as had bee
affected by the Rough Range
strike almost five years betoie-
The flow was estimated at a
conservative 1000 barrels a da)
of oil described as of “ ve o
high grade'’ and as “dark-
colored with the consistency ot
light lubricating-oil,” whic'


£
m?
How mucfi of
Your Estate
will your beneficiaries get?
Specialised experience in the intricacies of
Estate Administration may well prove of con-
siderable advantage to you—and your depen-
dants. Union Trustee’s comprehensive services
—available at moderate charges, limited by
Law—ensure fullest conservation of your assets
and continuous, competent control of your
Estate. Phone, write or call. There is no
charge— no obligation.
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton;
E. S. Vine, C.M.G. General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager: C. N. Williams. Resident Officer for Northern
Victoria and the lliverina: S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE.
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. F. Wright, M.8.E.; It. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: A. B. Tilemann. Assistant Manager: A. G. W. Dent.
Pastoral Inspector: Flank Laird. District Representative
for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Managers C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector : It. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
CharlevlUe.
UT27a
obviously did not fit an oil
indigenous to limestone but
tallied with that of a crude
petroleum which had suffered
long-distance migration
through restricted channels,
but had not been inspissated—
as had the Rough Range oil, by
exposure at the surface for a
million years or so.
It was highly improbable,
moreover, that the Puri bore
could have struck anything but
a migrated oil in the Miocene
limestones of Papua, and the
quick entry of brine into the
well confirmed that postulate.
Again in uninformed circles,
the advent of brine in the well
produced quite unjustified
depression ; it should have been
accepted merely as proof that
the strike had been made oy
the opening-up (after acidising)
of a comparatively small
porous lenticle in an otherwise
“tight” limestone.
It has been suggested that the
next step will be the testing
of the Puri area by straddling
the Puri well with other bores.
For any hope of success, how-
ever, abortive drilling must be
avoided by the correct inter-
pretation of chemical analyses
of the samples of brines, gases
and oils already made avail-
able by the Australasian
Petroleum exploration.
Newspaper Shares
■poLLOwiNG the announce-
A ment of a one-for-two
bonus-issue from Herald and
Weekly Times, Melbourne,
there has been animation in
other newspaper issues.
Herald and W.T. ss. shares
had their big rise prior to the
bonus announcement more
particularly after the good
news from Australian News-
print Mills about its return of
capital and a handsome bonus-
issue, Herald and W.T. being
the largest beneficiary, with
John Fairfax, Ltd. (Sydney),
the next biggest.
On the day that Herald and
W.T. announced its own bonus-
issue its shares had sold at the
record price of 375. 6d., but
later settled at 345.
Possibly because Ezra
Norton recently had a pro-
longed Cuptime holiday in
Melbourne the sharemarket
seemed to think he’d brought
back some of the Melbourne
“Herald” gold-dust on his
shoes; anyway Truth and
Sportsman £1 ords., which
were as low as 355. earlier this
year and sold at 41s, in Sep-
tember, rose from 51s. to 68s.
in a week and then hit 765.
There have been rumors
about conversations between
Melbourne “Herald” and
“Truth” (chief newspaper in-
terest, Sydney “Daily Mirror”)
for some time. Truth and
Sportsman, Ltd., has a com-
paratively small equity capital
at £300,000, with £500,000 of
assorted pref. money.
Consequently any premium
paid on the book-value of
“Truth” assets would bulk
large among the ord. shares,
a fact which the sharemarket
seems to appreciate fully.
About the time “Truth”
shares leapt in price there was
a jump in John Fairfax (Syd-
ney “Herald” and “Sun”)
shares from 38s. to 41s.
Sydney “Telegraph” (Con-
solidated Press, the ord. shares
in which have been static
around 365.) then published a
story that the Fairfax interests
were negotiating to buy a con-
trolling-interest in Truth and
Sportsman, Ltd.
On Sunday Ezra Norton
denied knowledge of any
“Truth” ord. shares being
bought by Rupert Henderson,
managing-director of John
Fairfax, Ltd.
He added that he had now
been approached (by whom not
stated) to sell his interests in
Truth and Sportsman, Ltd., and
had been considering the posi-
tion for a considerable time.
He proposed to seek advice
from his family and medical
advisers, and in a week or
more would decide whether
he could carry on.
If he decided he could not,
he would seriously consider
retiring and disposing of his
interests.
There was no question of
“The Daily Mirror” or “Sun-
day Mirror” being merged with
other newspapers; the de-
benture - holders, pref. - share-
holders and other ord.-holders
would never permit it.
“Truth” and Sydney
“Herald” at present are asso-
ciated in television-broadcast-
ing in Brisbane.
Television Earnings
'T'elevision-transmission in
A Australia is now coming
out of the red.
Television Corporation, Ltd.,
which runs Station TCN,
Channel 9, in Sydney, showed
a profit of £36,689 for its first
full year of transmission to
June 30 last, after providing
£101,601 for depreciation. In
the preceding year, with only
nine months of transmission,
a loss of £250,962 had been
recorded.
Sir Arthur Warner, chairman
of Electronic Industries, Ltd.,
Melbourne, said he expects no
dividends from the co.’s 62^
p.c. holding in General Tele-
vision, Channel 9 (Victoria),
this year, but operations are
now on a profitable basis.”
David Syme and Co., Ltd.,
which also has an interest in
GTV, had previously spoken
of encouraging reports” from
t^ie co -
Overseas experience has been
one of heavy establishment
costs to begin with, then high
profit-earning, as a rule.
Television Corporation in
Sydney is the only TV-station
at present transmitting that
has a Stock Exchange market
for its shares. The co. has a
paid capital of £950,000 in 10s.
shares, and appears to have


MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
An Issue of £1,000,000 REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURES
ATTRACTIVE RATES—MAXIMUM SECURITY
•
Assets Exceed £9,500,000 £237 Cover
o
O *
e ors
A N
ors
3
e o r
n\o«
sv
b tn ofl
rt\o*
w
A
for each £lOO
As set out in
the prospectus by
Hancock & Wood-
ward, Chartered
Account'ts (Aust.).
p.a., 5 to 12
y ears
Interest paid quarterly Free of Exchange
Also available 7% Cumulative Stockfrom4-20yrs.
NOTE: Cumulative Stock is particularly suitable for the investor
who wishes to see his capital increose at a very satisfactory rate.
Funds thus invested double themselves in ten years and more
than Ireble themselves in 17 years.
•
Registers in: Sydney, Melbourne, Canberra
Underwriting Brokers: lAN POTTER & CO.
•
Applications will be accepted from all Members of the
Stock Exchange, all Branches of Bank of New South Wales,
and by . . .
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE CO. LTD.
SYDNEY ; Gen. Office: 316 Pitt St. MA9701
Sec. & Treas.: 381 Pitt St. MA9615
CANBERRA: Melbourne Bldgs., London Circuit. J 1245
The Treasurer, The Mutual Acceptance Co. Ltd.
381 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Please send me a Debenture Prospectus.
NAME
ADDRESS
ACC-NSW B-19-11
made good use of its funds.
Its shares have a demand at
around 15s.
C.S.R. Building Materials
t|ALES of C.S.R. building-
materials have increased
moderately during the last six
months in the face of strong
competition in all lines, the
co.’s chairman reported at the
annual meeting. He added that
building activity in Australia
has been at a steady level
overall with a trend to an in-
crease in home-building and
some slackening in commercial
building.
The C.S.R. makes cane-ite
and hardboard, and “lay-it-
yourself” Vinylflex floor- and
wall-tiles were recently intro-
duced to the market. A
number of the large retail
stores in each of the capital
cities are distributing this new
line.
Gyprock plasterboard is
gaining wider acceptance as an
interior lining for walls and
ceilings of homes and offices.
C.S.R. and Australian Gypsum
Products Pty. are the big
figures in the gypsum industry
in Australia.
New blue-asbestos milling-
plant has been brought into
production at Wittenoom
(W.A.), increasing the capacity
to 20,000 tons of asbestos fibre
a year.
Maoriland* Finance
HThe Minister of Finance, Mr.
-*■ Nordmeyer, commenting
on overseas markets, described
New Zealand’s butter-export
prospects as “still somewhat
gloomy.” In addition to in-
creasing supplies entering the
U.K. market, there was also
strong competition from mar-
garine, he said.
“I think butter will rise to
2555. per cwt., but while I
was in the U.K. I could find
no one optimistic enough to
say that it would go much
further than that,” Mr. Nord-
meyer said.
Cheese prices in the U.K.
were good at the moment and
prospects looked fairly bright.
Unfortunately, cheese was not
a big factor in New Zealand’s
total exports.
“The prospects for meat are
really good,” Mr. Nordmeyer
said. There was a promising
outlook for N.Z. beef in the
U.K., and beef prospects in tne
United States market were
excellent.”
Some of Mr. Nordmeyer’s
gloomier remarks abroad got
a poor reception in New
Zealand.
“We must have confidence
in our future and in our
ability to climb out of our
difficulties, and if we are going
to have that confidence tor-
pedoed it is not going to do
the country any good what-
ever,” said the president of the
Canterbury Manufacturers’
Association, Mr. J. R.
Maddren.
Mr. Nordmeyer was an
astute politician and he had
the parson’s normal attitude of
“Woe unto ye,” said Mr. H.
C. Urlwin, a prominent manu-
facturer.
Mr. Chubei Itoh, leader of
the official Japanese trade mis-
sion which has been touring
New Zealand, stated that New
Zealand cannot expect to
export much dairy-produce to
Japan immediately.
He added, however, that
there would be an increasing
market in about five years.
Japan was a rapidly expand-
ing industrial country and
w'ould buy raw materials from
New Zealand. There was a
serious shortage of wood for
papermaking, so a steady trade
could be built-up in that
commodity.
Three of four shipments of
kraft paper had already been
shipped to Japan from New
Zealand, continued Mr. Itoh,
and there was every likelihood
that more trading would be
done.
Japan also bought small
quantities of coal and scrap-
metal. More and more shoes
were being produced in his
country so that leather was a
product high on their buying-
list. Wool was being sought
in increasing quantities, too.
Guaranteed Dairy Prices
“The time has been reached
when the Government and the
dairf authorities should con-
sider, if they have not already
done so, whether the present
system of guaranteed prices
for dairy-produce and its State
marketing abroad are in the
best interests of the dairy-
farmers themselves and of the
country at large.” This opinion,
recently expressed by the
assistant general-manager of
the National Bank of N.Z.,
Mr. J. T. Andrews, is shared
by many New Zealanders.
One of the dangers of the
present system, according to
Mr. Andrews, is that dairy-
farmers were led to think
governmental participation in
the scheme would do more for
them than in fact was likely to
be the case.
Experience had shown that
the level of pay-out to farmers
under the guaranteed price was
governed to an overwhelming
extent by the level of overseas
receipts for dairy-produce.
“If the guaranted price is to
rise when sales-proceeds rise
and is to be reduced when
prices fall, is there any par-
ticular point in the system?”
Mr. Andrews asked.
Protection
At its annual conference, the
N.Z. Manufacturers’ Federa-
tion decided to ask the Govern-
ment to set-up machinery for
a continuous review of imports
because of the adverse effects
which imports from Japan
could have on New Zealand
industries.
The conference also decided
to ask the Government to
adopt a system of panels for
industries which consider
themselves vulnerable to Japan-
ese imports to examine figures
and trends and to advise the
Government on “peril points ’
above which imports cannot
rise without action being taken
under the “safeguards” clause
of the New Zealand-Japanese
trade agreement.


costs
you
money
Get the anti-rust
protection 0f...
m
m
&
&
r
8
X i
W*
*er.
;,:
w
A
li
n
rj.
ME
SUP
RUST-PROOF POWER KEROSINE
Rust is expensive! It attacks the fuel system of
your kerosine-powered tractor, causing unnecessary
repairs and higher fuel bills.
Rust weakens delicate check-valve springs in fuel
pumps . . . clogs tiny carburettor passages and filter
screens, resulting in rough engine idling . . . poor
fuel consumption ... loss of power and performance.
Ampol Supreme Rust-proof Powfer Kerosine con-
tains a patented compound that stops rust not
only in your tractor’s fuel system but in storage
tanks, drums and all metal in con-
tact with the fuel.
Get this free protection
for your tractor to-day...
be sure you get Ampol
Supreme Power Kerosine
. . . it’s Rust-proof!
fIMPOL


GENERAL
TYPEWRITING SERVICE
Plays, novels, short stories, theses,
statistics, etc., speedily and accu-
rately typed. Enquiries invited.
M. LLOYD,
14 Wandoo Street, O’Connor,
Canberra.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Franquin
When this reviewer was
much younger he w 7 as per-
suaded into giving a demon-
stration of hypnotism at a
school-concert. His classmates
promised co-operation as “sub-
jects,” and the curtain rose with
audience and performer on
equal terms —both experienc-
ing their first hypnotic show.
The performer had one advant-
age—the audience didn't know 7
it was his first show —but he
soon lost it.
He has always blamed
Occles Williamson for the
blighting of his hypnotic
career. The first tw 7 o victims
co - operated loyally if
woodenly. The audience didn't
seem greatly impressed, but at
least they didn't throw anything
—which was something. The
third subject was Occles Wil-
liamson. Not only did Occles
not co-operate. He deliber-
ately sabotaged the show. At
first he merely acted like a
difficult subject. The audience
liked this, and their applause
must have gone to Occles's
head. He took no notice of
muttered threats and entreaties,
and it became a matter of
opinion w f ho was doing the
hypnotising and who was being
hypnotised. This reviewer will
be eternally grateful to the
teacher-stage-manager who had
the presence of mind to ring
down the curtain before the
audience actually rushed the
stage. He shudders to think
what w'ould have happened if
he had attempted a repeat
performance.
For that reason he has the
greatest admiration for Fran-
quin, who doesn't seem to
strike Occles-trouble and is
never afraid to come back.
He’s now at the Empire for
the sixth (or is it the eighth?)
time and is packing 'em in and
sending ’em home happy as
expertly and as confidently as
when his show first hit Sydney.
Franquin’s show is one that
doesn't give the property-man
much trouble, because the bag-
pipes his subjects play aren't
there; the hole in the stage
they all take such pains to step
over isn’t there; the Coney
Island merry-go-round they
ride on isn’t there, and the
gunman who holds-up the
“Did you get to see that voodoo film, Johnson?”
night-club they aren’t in isn't
there, either.
In fact, there’s nothing there
except Franquin himself, keep-
ing up a lively flow of patter
and chatter; 'hostess Shirley,
who runs, skips and jumps
about 20 miles a night in the
wake of Franquin’s micro-
phone to ensure that its lead
doesn't strangle any of the
sleeping subjects ; and the sub-
jects themselves —several score
of ’em —who carry-on for all
the world as if Franquin had
hypnotised them. Which, of
course, he has and the
audience, too.
But this member of the audi-
ence w f Ould still like to see
him have a go at Occles
Williamson.
J. B.
“The Skin of Our Teeth”
No Sydneysider who has a
few' shillings and can move
about should miss seeing this
Genesian production, by James
Lang (the first since Olivier’s
in 1948), of Thornton Wilder's
Pulitzer Prize play.
Subtitled “A History of the
World in Comic Strip,” it
shows the Antrobus family in
their New' Jersey commuter’s
house wobbling about on the
history of mankind, their daily
life reflecting the experience of
the race in Ice Age, decadence,
flood and war: a confusion of
time, place and pastiche in
which everything from history
to playwriting is parodied, but
which is unified by a serious
and wise view of human values.
The wisdom and the serious-
ness are, however, implicit and
should be kept well within the
off-beat comic effects. And
here the company made one
jarring lapse —in the difficult
last act, where the grave com-
ments on human hope rising
out of chaos and despair
were allowed for a time to slip
too far out of their skittish
clothing.
But apart from this it was
the best piece of little-theatre
this reviewer has seen in
Sydney for years: something
to restore your faith in the
theatre as a part of life, and
to send you home with that
deeper awareness of reality
that only first-rate plays and
playing can create.
Not the least part of this
experience was Judi Farr’s
playing of Sabina, the eternal
housemaid, mistress and camp-
follower who slips light-
headedly in and out of the
action, chattering about the
absurdity of it all, but playing
it—the part and life —as well
as she can. Here was rich
comedy, done w'ith a crafts-
manship thoroughly finished
and contained.
Anthony Ward and Gaynor
Mitchell warmly captured the
tremendous smallness of Mr.
and Mrs. Antrobus (except for
that last act!); and Marlene
Horsell, as the fortune-teller,
contributed much to the
splendid balance the company
achieved in the swirling side-
show-effects of Act Two.
J.A.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Creation”
At Sydney’s St. Andrew’s
Cathedral Mervyn J. Byers
conducted the St. Andrew’s
Choral Society through
Haydn’s large - scale, dated
work; David Barkla played
the organ, and the soloists were
Robin Gurr, soprano; Michael
Khlentzos, tenor, and Barry
Strong, bass.
Maybe Haydn, tired of pro-
ducing lightweights, decided to
copy his successful (musically)
predecessors Bach, Schiitz and
Handel and leave for posterity
more oratorio. But, while the
concept of “The Creation” is
inspiring enough, Haydn’s set-
ting only occasionally touches
fields not already brought to
perfection by his forebears
His idea, for instance, of
writing choral fugues: where
Bach would develop, Haydn
merely recapitulates. Haydn's
thought seems looser, more
diffuse . . .
Of the soloists, bass Barry
Strong . was good, tenot
Michael Khlentzos almost on
the same level —except that the
score appeared to have him
worried—and soprano Robin
Gurr rather piercing in vocal
quality.
Several aspects of David
Barkla's organ - playing were
disappointing. First, the dis-
agreeable pauses between
various sections; second, his
lapses in timing; and last,
even allowing for the fact that
his accompaniment was 4 an
orchestral reduction, far too
much w'avy string-tone.
A.W.
“The Matchmaker”
Thornton Wilder’s few plays
have always meant first-class
little-theatre. ‘ Our Town” was
a “Milkwood” long before its
time (and it’s interesting to
note that Dylan Thomas
carried copies of Wilder in his
grubby pocket).
“The Matchmake r,”
presented by Brisbane's
Twelfth Night Theatre, has
plenty of immediate charm,
even if it leaves the mind
unrefreshed. In particular,
the central character of
the matchmaker is finely
drawn, and in this role Gwen
Wheeler was so expert that any
males in her company seemed


ficuih in lAe
Risui*e
m
*pe; v jgB
i
Wkf.S.i
■V- -
■
France is a beautiful country, and when the
time came to leave it on my European journey I
felt the parting keenly. It holds for me so many
war-time memories of the Royal Flying Corps.
It is easy to grow fond of a land where the
bright and colourful in life is blended in with the
spiritual character of its people.
In France you see crosses raised at the roadside,
or standing out in fields, and in among the vines
in the grape country: symbols of Faith in a people
who are keyed to the soil in their understanding
of the values of human existence.
This is a nation that has been torn by war
twice in this century. In recent years it has been
struggling politically, so that only now a new
Constitution has given it hope of stable government
in the future.
Yet, for all these trials of circumstance, the
French have w'on back to amazing industrial and
commercial strength. Their exports are expanding.
Their currency is respected.
Between France and Australia there has long
been a close tie in friendship. The late J. F.
Archibald expressed it graciously and permanently
when he chose to give us the handsome
commemorative fountain in Sydney's Hyde Park.
A similar bond exists between France and the
United States, as it does between France and
Britain. The great Statue of Liberty in New
York Harbour was a gift from France to the
American people.
It is well for us to remember and to nurture
these friendships in an age when so much in the
world tends to the division of mankind.
Material progress—in Australia, France, or
anywhere else —is good and desirable. But far
transcending it in the scale of life is possession of
that spirit which enables a people to bring them-
selves up and out past the challenges that come at
times to test their moral strength.
In this, as in the example she has given in her
patriotic achievement in these post-war years, I
believe we have something to learn from France.
////as7^ s
labored and forced. Blanche
Lather and Dawn Rees, owner
and slavey respectively in Mrs.
Molloy’s hat-shop, performed
with a timing that further laid
bare the ponderousness of the
gentlemen.
VAL VALLIS.
Artbursts
Modem Japan
Art is art wherever you find
it, and it must be said that the
colossal travelling exhibition of
contemporary Japanese art at
the N. S. Wales Gallery is of
quite exceptional interest and
deserves far more publicity
than it has had. Perhaps the
most surprising thing about it
is the size of it: not merely the
exhibition as a whole but the
paintings themselves, which,
from a nation supposed to be
devoted to the miniature, are
mostly big and often gigantic.
With everything from a huge
black abstract entitled “The
Tower” to a meticulous small
black painting of a bunch of
asparagus and a lemon, the
show is muddled both in
content and values, but on
closer inspection the work falls
into six main categories, each
with its moments of excellence.
There are the abstracts, some
coarse and turgid and all hard
to distinguish from contem-
porary Western paintings,
unless in the richer color of
Reitaro Fuji’s “Negro Dancers”
and the quieter harmony of
Kishio Murata’s “Thawing
Season” and Shoe Enokido’s
“The Japanese.”
There are the unfortunate
flirtations with Impressionism,
vulgar, overcolored flower-
pieces and landscapes ; among
which Hirosuke Tazaki’s
“Mount Aso,” if rather dull,
is at least spacious and solid.
There are the paintings with
an effect of surrealist water-
colors, very charming and
feathery, best exemplified by
Shigeru Izumi’s “Spring” and
“Fighting Cocks.”
There are paintings
developed from the ancient
Chinese (and Japanese) land-
scapes, like Seison Maeda’s
delightful white cat, glaring
balefully under the traditional
flowering twigs.
As a similar development
from the past there are the
paintings using the stylisations
of the old woodcuts—to make,
in Kyujin Yamamoto's “Waves
of the Northern Sea,” a most
lively chunk of tumbling water.
And, finally, also continuing
the traditions of the past, there
are the enormous paintings of
carp and pheasants by Nampu
Katayama, Shaka Uemura and
Shinsen Tokuoka, works as
remarkable for their delicacy
as for their size, and unlike
anything to be seen in the West.
Ceramics, metalwork,
lacquer-wares, bambo - crafts
and dolls round-off an exhibi-
tion which most people who see
once will want to see again.
R.A.S. Art Prizes
Art-prizes totalling £l2OO
are offering for the 1959 Royal
Easter Show in Sydney. There
are two sections, “Industrial”
and “Rural.”
The industrial section will be
known as the Sir Charles Lloyd
Jones Memorial Art Prize, and
first-prize money of £5OO has
been presented by David Jones’,
Ltd. The rural section has
£7OO from the Rural Bank —
first-prize £5OO, second-prize
£l5O, third-prize £5O. Judges
for the industrial section are
William Dobell, Douglas
Dundas and Laurie Thomas ;
for the rural, Walter Bunning.
Entries, which must be
painted in oils, close on
February 25, 1959.
The Bendigo (Vic.) art-
competitions (£lOO for an oil;
£4O for a watercolor) close on
November 21, 1958, at the
Bendigo Gallery.
<s►
Perth Contemporary Prize
The exhibition at the Perth
Art Gallery for the Perth prize
for contemporary art differs
from that recently held at the
Skinner Galleries in several
respects, but principally in the
judging of the entries, which
was hard to follow.
First-prize was awarded to
Carl Plate for his “Yearling,”
a mosaic treatment in oils
which seemed to complicate
unnecessarily a simple subject.
E. Philpot’s “The Rainbow”
w'as more interesting in its
richness of tone, which was
greatly enhanced by the clever
use of white.
In Charles Bush’s “The Law
Courts” the massive structure
was well brought out by the
rusty and golden tones ; John
Lunghi’s “Three Sisters,” a
shadowy but pleasing piece of
portraiture, and Norman Ais-
bett's “Dambuster” were the
most noticeable of their class;
and Elizabeth Durack showed
another of her North-west
studies in “The Samphire
Marsh,” with its curious,
haunting effect of very little
fading away into nothingness.
G. Laszlo’s “Kurnell” and P.
F. Moran's “A Village in


THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
Registered Office : 271-279 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 30th SEPTEMBER, 1958
LIABILITIES
AUTHORISED CAPITAL-
-20, 000,000 Ordinary Shares of
each ...
ISSUED CAPITAL—
-5,589,037 Ordinary Shares of
each, fuily paid ...
7,200,000 Ordinary Shares of
each, !2/6d. paid
£
£1
... £20,000,000
£1
5,589,037
£1
7,200,000
£12,789,037
Paid-Up Capital
Reserve Fund, including Share
Premium Account, £1,008,904
(used in the business)
Final Dividend and Special
Centenary Bonus Proposed
Balance of Profit and Loss Account
10,089,037
7,500,000
655,787
428,694
Total Shareholders’ Funds ... 18,673,518
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other
Liabilities ( including Provisions for
Contingencies) ... ... ... 273,336,015
Notes in Circulation ... ... 47,478
Balances due to Other Banks ... 269,365
Balances due to Subsidiary Bank-
ing Companies now in course of
liquidation ... ... ... ... 307,173
292,633,549
Liabilities under Letters of Credit,
Guarantees, Forward Exchange
Contracts, etc. ... ... ... 21,025,078
£313,658,627
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at
Bankers
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks
Balances with and due from Other
Banks
Treasury Bills—
Australian Government...
Public Securities (at or under market
value ) —
(i) Australian Govt. Securities
(ii) Other Govt. Securities
(iii) Lot* 1 . and Semi-Governmen-
tal Authorities’ Securities ...
Special Account with Common-
wealth Bank of Australia
Bills Receivable and Remittances
in Transit ...
£
12,207,085
4,424,002
967,305
6,500,000
21,903,481
1,427,157
343,267
41,137,000
26,981,230
Loans, Advances and Bills Dis-
counted (after deducting provision for
debts considered bad or doubtful)
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites
(at cost less amounts written off)
Shares in wholly owned Subsidiary
Company (at cost). (The Company
has made neither profit nor loss)
All Other Assets
115,890,527
164,091,867
8,971,902
2,000
3,677,253
292,633,549
Liabilities of Customers under
Letters of Credit, Guarantees,
Forward Exchange Contracts,
etc.—as per contra ... ... ... 21,025,078
£313,658,627
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR YEAR ENDED 30th SEPTEMBER, 1958
£
To Expenses Head Office, 853
Branches and Receiving Offices
(including Directors' Fees, £15,000) 8,133,414
„ Income, Land and Other Taxes 771,152
„ Balance, being Net Profit for
the year carried down ... ... 972,322
£9,876,888
To Dividends—
Interim paid 23th May, 1958 ... 454,007
Final proposed payable 26th
November, 1958 ... ... 454,007
„ Special Centenary Bonus pro-
posed payable 26th Nov-
ember, 1958 ... ... ... 201,780
„ Baiance Carried Forward ... 428,694
£1,538,488
£
By Discount and interest earned,
net exchange, commissions and
other income, after deducting
interest paid and accrued on
deposits, rebate on bills current
at balance date and appropria-
tions to the credit of Contin-
gencies Accounts (out of which
accounts provisions for all bad and
doubtful debts have been made) ... 9,876,888
£9,876,888
By Net Balance—brought forward
from 30th September, 1957 ... 566,166
„ Net Profit for the year... ... 972,322
£1,538,488
(The Balance Sheet
Profit and Loss Figures are stated in Australian Currency, adjusted to the nearest Pound)
To the Shareholders of THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with the balances on the books at the Head Office
and with the certified returns from the branches. We have obtained all the information and
explanations we have required and we are of the opinion that the Balance Sheet and Profit and
Loss Account are drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company’s
affairs and of the results of the business of the Company for the year according to the best of our
information and the explanations given to us and as shown by the books of the Company.
J. R. BISHOP, F.C.A. (AUST.)\
Melbourne, 31st October, 1958. SHERRARD WARNOCK, F.C.A. (AUST.)/Auditors.
Flanders” are grouped together
in appreciation of their treat-
ment of cloud and light.
Bolivar.
A
The ghost of Septimus Power
walks again at Melbourne
Athenaeum, where Ambrose
Griffin still walks faithfully in
the wake of his late master,
Except for a group of hunts-
men with dogs on a hillside,
Mr. Griffin has abandoned
Septimus’s favorite subject-
matter, and glossy - coated
Clydesdales ploughing furrows
are as conspicuous by their
absence in the exhibition as
they are in the Western
District. “Morning in May”
is cold, clear and hard, and
“A Mountain Road” is warm
and inviting. Six portraits of
women are meticulously
painted, but the ladies repre-
sented have been given no
atmosphere to breathe in.
A
Distance doesn't lend en-
chantment to the views of
Warrandyte, Euro, Yackand-
andah, the Eildon Weir, old
Tallangatta and other lovely
bits of Victoria painted by
Malcolm Cameron and hang-
ing at the Tasmanian Tourist
Bureau’s gallery in Mel-
bourne. This isn’t because
enchantment hasn’t been
attempted, but because tone
and color are so poorly related
that even when viewed at a
distance they fail to convey
that immediate sense of light
and color which an impression
should give. Mr. Cameron,
however, sometimes achieves
a fair approximation to his
ideal examples, “Scene,
Yackandandah,” “Howqua
Valley, Eildon Weir,” and
“Gold Diggings with Tree,
Yackandandah.”
Films
“The Long Hot Summer”
This, at Melbourne Regent,
is a rough-and-ready but sur-
prisingly effective attempt to
dramatise the William Faulk-
ner novel. Faulkner's hero is
the old Southern gentleman
(played by Orson Welles in a
series of loud explosions) who
keeps his family in a state of
acute subjection while they
build-up a deep resentment
which expresses itself in an
attempt by a member of his
family to burn him to death in
his own barn.
Welles is so touched by this
negative expression of the
young man’s affection that
when he escapes singed and
burning he embraces him with
tears of joy pouring down his
fat face. His bluff is called by
another young man, who also
appears to have a penchant for
burning the paternal barn
down because his father tyran-
nised over him in the same
fashion.
In the background are the
old Southern gentleman’s
tyrannised-over daughters, who
dream of marriage to some
young hero; also a barmaid
who aspires to the hand and
fortune of the explosive Mr.
Welles. They are all given their
wish by a producer eager for
a happy ending, which com-
pletely negatives the intention
of Faulkner’s book.
❖ +> i*
“The Camp on Blood
Island”
Prison-camp story, with Jap
C.O. threatening to shoot
everyone if the Allies win the
war. When news leaks in that
the war has ended a prisoner is
delegated to “fix” the Jap
radio-set ; then a Yank pilot
crash-landing near the camp, is
captured, tortured and, by
deivious and incredible means,
breaks out and saves the
British, but not before a bout
of shooting and grenading,
with guards toppling like nine-
pins.
In general a hard-as-steej,
faintly impossible opus, witn
Andre Morell strong as the
commander forced to decide.
At Sydney Capitol.


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownhllls,”
Telephone: BW 1165 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
O’Connell Street - -- -- -- -- - Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: ItW 1771 —B\V 8088
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dunlop Rubber Australia, Ltd.
"Primarily interested in the still-
expanding, but increasingly competi-
tive, market for motor - vehicle tyres,
Dunlop Rubber Australia, Ltd., lifted
group sales from £45 million to £5l
million last term, the record turnover
helping to boost net earnings by 20 p.c.
to a peak figure of over £1.5 million.
The ord. div.-rate, held at 8 p.c. for
the seven years to 1953, was raised from
p.c. to a well-covered 10 p.c., the
highest level reached by the co. since
1929. The 10 p.c. div.-rate has never,
in fact, been exceeded since Dunlop
emerged, in 1920, from the third recon-
struction of a co. formed 22 years earlier
to take over the Australian interests of
the English Dunlop Rubber Co.—-a sub-
stantial shareholder in the local concern.
The absorption of both Perdriau
Rubber and Barnet Glass Rubber in
1929 confirmed Dunlop’s position as the
largest manufacturer of rubber products
in Australia, a status still enjoyed by
the group. Dunlop products are manu-
factured in over 20 factories, most of
which are in Victoria or N.S.W. The
parent co.’s paid capital reached its
present total, £7,798,980 (including
£930,000 in 10 p.c. cumulative prefs.),
in 1955 following the issue of 370,032
£1 ords. in exchange for the share-capital
of Kenworth Rubber, Ltd.
In addition to producing all types of
tyres and tubes the group turns-out auto-
motive batteries and wheel - brakes,
transmission- and conveyer-belting, foot-
wear, waterproof clothing, sporting-
goods, industrial plastics, floor-tiles, etc.,
as well as a host of rubber and synthetic-
rubber components. These secondary
interests are understood to bring - in
around a third of the total group-
income.
Rapid expansion, prompted by the
spectacular increase in post-war demand
for tyres, tubes and other motor-vehicle
lines and by opportunities for the intro-
duction of new products, has quadrupled
the written-down value of the group’s
fixed assets over the last decade, and
although an extensive development pro-
gramme was completed four or five years
ago, a large proportion of the profits
has been retained to cover subsequent
capital-expenditure and to strengthen
finances generally.
While the recovery in motor-vehicle
production and a steady increase in
demand for automotive and many non-
automotive products would have con-
tributed to the growth of sales last
term, the group claims to have increased
turnover at a faster rate than consump-
tion to gain a larger share of the principal
markets supplied. On the whole, profit-
margins appear to have been held
reasonably well, net earnings for the
year (to June 30) rising by £259,399 to
£1,539,284 after providing £985,638 (up
£169,419) for depreciation and £985,635
for taxation. Down £65,504, the tax-
provision wasn’t far above the amount
called-for by the published profit:
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
Net , Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. senes. serves.f
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
Tax overprovided, £9035 .. .. 2,776,680
Reduction intangibles, £9O .. .. 2,776,770
Unexplained increase, £34,970 .. 2,8X1,740
1953. .754,679 10 S 600,000 154,679 2,966,419
From special stock reserve, £100,000.. 3,066,419
To contingencies reserve, £163,396 .. 3,229.815
Added intangibles, £537 . . . . 3,229,278
1954 1,100,975 10 81 631,687 469,288 3,698,506
Unexplained additions, £123,550 . . 3,822,116
Added intangibles, £895 .. .. 3,821,22 L
1955 1,072,330 10 8i 645,410 426,920 4,248,141
Reduction intangibles, £928 .. .. 4,249,069
• Profit sale assets, etc., £171,909 .. 4,420,978
1956 1,300,225 10 9 711,208 589,017 5,009,995
To provision long-service leave,
£249,300 .. .. .. .. 4,760,695
Intangibles written-off, £42,180 . . 4,718,515
Profit Sale assets, £116,469 . . 4,834,984
1957 1,279,885 10 9J 745,553 534,332 5,309,316
Profit sale assets (net), £81,401 . . 5,450,717
Intangibles written-off, £9044 . . 5,441,673
Tax overprovided, £48,269 .. .. 5,489,942
1958 1,539,284 10 10 779,898 759,386 6,249,328
* After deducting outside interests,
t After deducting goodwill, etc. (now £631,543).
The last issue of bonus-scrip related to
the 1920 reconstruction and, as the two
post-war cash issues (one-for-four in
1950 and again in 1952) carried premiums
of 50 p.c. and 37y p.c., shareholders
haven’t received anything exceptional in
the way of income for many years. How-
ever, after meeting pref.-commitments,
last term’s showing equalled 21 p.c. on
ord. capital, compared with 17.2, 17.5
and 15 p.c. in three years back to 1955,
so the scope for further improvements
in the div.-rate is anything but exhausted,
especially as there appears to be no
immediate need for large-scale capital-
expenditure.
Nevertheless, while expressing con-
fidence in his co.’s ability to meet com-
petition from a position of financial and
technical strength, chairman Sir Daniel
McVey sees a cloud on the horizon in
the shape of the proposed B.F. Goodrich-
Ampol tyre-plant at Somerton, Vic. (The
big U.S. manufacturer and Ampol
Petroleum announced plans last Septem-
ber for the manufacture of tyres and
allied rubber products by a jointly owned
co.) According to McVey, plant-
capacity of the four established tyre-
manufacturers exceeds by “a large
margin” current consumer-demand and
the entry of a fifth manufacturer would
“simply mean the redistribution of the
existing market, ’’ with a consequent in-
crease in costs.
Although it seems reasonable to assume
that the growth of this market will con-
tinue, the possibility of intense competi-
tion and higher selling-expenses could
well influence the board’s attitude to-
wards a lift in the div.-rate. On the
basis of a 10 p.c. div. Dunlop’s f.-p. £1
ords. would return £5 6s. Bd. p.c. at last
week’s price of 375. 6d,
No doubt with the Goodrich-Ampol
link still in mind, McVey also claimed
that the Australian consumption of basic
petrochemicals wasn’t enough to permit
the establishment of a basic petro-
chemical industry, on an economic basis,
without the simultaneous establishment
of a synthetic-rubber industry based on
butadiene and ethylene. Investigations
carried out by Dunlop and other leading
rubber cos. indicated that the cost of
locally-produced synthetic rubber would
exceed that of the imported product.
Dunlop's substantial reserves and
comfortably liquid finances feature in the
consolidated balance-sheet:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1906. 1957. 1958.
P;iid capital .. £7,798,980 £7,798,980 £7,798,980
Reserves .. 5,741,538 6,100,859 6,880,871
Outside interest 22,421 22,416 58,038
Debentures, etc. 1,482,500 1,382,500 1,237,500
Deposits . . 40j,000 154,500
Overdraft . . 2.137,396 1,147,443 567,815
Sundry-creditors 2,322,673 2,740,082 2,732,726
Staff fund . . 50.000 392,004 345,986
Tax reserve . . 1,287,522 1,114,481 1,106,320
Final div. .. 413,585 413,560 445,803
£21,256,615 £21,512,325 £21,328,538
Freeholds, etc. 4,324,469 4,742,771 5,151,971
Plant, etc. . . 3,991,007 4,030,844 3,953,619
Stocksf .. 7,611,668 7,394,082 6,150,766
Debtors . . 4,542,024 4,556,419 5,353,073
Investments . . 49,419 49,419 49.419
Cash, etc. . . 6,485 7,247 8,147
Intangibles . . 731,543 731,543 631,543
£21,256,615 £21,512.325 £21,328,538
t After deducting special reserve, £200,000.
Last term’s depreciation provision ex-
ceeded the outlay on plant by £77,225,
a net £439,200 going into freehold and
leasehold properties. Fixed assets are
shown at 1928 valuation or cost, less
depreciation, a particularly modest valua-
tion in the case of a number of large
freeholds. Retained earnings and a 20
p.c. reduction in stocks (down
£1,243,316) easily covered the £lOO,OOO
repaid under mortgage-debentures and
the £854,421 clipped-off current liabilities,
the group finishing the term with an
extra £796,654 in book-debts. Working-
capital advanced by £408,659 to
£6,158,837 over the year.
Consolidated accounts show a net
tangible cover of 365. for the ords. and


G. H. PARTRIDGE & CO.
1,. D. PARTRIDGE, A. G. HANSON
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
113 PHt Street, Sydney Telephone: BL 5031-3
£l5 2s. Id. for the 10 p.c. prefs. which
participate with the ords. in any surplus
on liquidation.
H. C. Sleigh, Ltd.
IT’s been a lucrative proposition for the
stayers, has H. C. Sleigh. Paid capital
was only £BOO,OOO in 1947, shortly after
public money was ushered into the busi-
ness, which was founded in 1895. Since
then it has grown eightfold, mostly in
such a way as to advantage ordinary
shareholders, although the prefs. have
also benefited. And there's more on the
way, per medium of a convertible-note
issue, recently announced.
Of the usual registered unsecured
variety, these 20s. notes carry an interest-
rate of 74 p.c., and are being issued on
the basis of one note for every five shares
or options held. They metamorphose
pound for pound into ords. on June 30,
1965. Flowever, the effective yield on
the notep to conversion will be cut down
to 6 p.c. by a ss. premium carried by
the shares, which is payable in advance.
In any new cash issues which may crop-
up within the next seven years, the notes
are on an equal footing with existing
sh a
There is already £500,000 out in £lOO
notes, 64 p.c. paper issued in March,
1956, together with a half-million of
separate marketable options, each of
which entitles the holder to take up one
share at ss. premium on December 31,
1961. These options are endowed with
the same rights as the above notes.
For sheer growth of earning-potential,
H. C. Sleigh has few peers. Even as late
as 1952 net profit had barely overtopped
the £ 100,000-mark, which was little
advance on 1948 results. In the past five
years, however, earnings have more than
quadrupled:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
( Divs. ~
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jne., Profit. 5 p.c. r Old. serves. serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £36,064 .. . . j
Unexplained addition, £669 . • • l i nan si 7
’55.. 444,192 30,000 10=226,842 187.260 f 1 '
To staff fund, £23,000 .. .. J
Share premiums, £114,050 .. .. |
Profit sale assets. £4319 ..
Tax underprovided, £3056 ....
To insurance* res., £14,081 .. .. }■ 1,411,668
’56.. 608,590 30,000 121=314,383 204,207
To staff fund, £lO,OOO
W/off share exes., £18,750 .. ..
Share premiums, £191,860 ..
To insurance reserve, £16.864 ..
Loss sale assets, £26,405 .. ..)
’57-1,077,054 Sg.OOO 121=400,843 637,211 f 2.105,850
W/off goodwill, £34,098 . . . . |
W7off share exes., £16.250 .. - . 1
To staff fund, £15,000 .. . . J
Profit sale assets. £3099 .. .. |
Tax overprovided, £13.603 ..
To insurance reserve, £24,860
To shipping reserve, £100,00(1 .. ~ -, n
’55..1.366.022 39,000 12-1=587,041 739,981
Share premiums capitalised, £485,172
Share exes, written-off, £5030
Goodwill written-off, £26,276 .-. J
* Subject to intangibles, £321,169 at 30/0/’53.
Since incorporation there have been six
share-issues to ordinary shareholders:
two at par, one-for-one and one-for-four ;
three one-for-five issues at ss. premium ;
and early this year there was a one-for-
six bonus handout. Meanwhile, the rate
of dividend has been moving up steadily.
In 11 years it has averaged a shade over
10 p.c., and \2\ p.c. has been forth-
coming in the last three terms.
The Sleigh group is many-sided, but is
chiefly interested in importing and dis-
tributing petroleum products, for which
purpose it is affiliated with Caltex’s
refinery, Australian Oil Refining Pty.,
Ltd., situated at Kurnell, near Sydney.
Petroleum turnover has increased seven-
fold since 1947 to a current level of over
124-million gallons a year, and there are
1731 outlets, including 1310 one-brand
stations, carrying the well - known
“Golden Fleece” sign.
A subsidiary also runs a small tanker-
fleet, two vessels of which are wholly-
oWned and shortly to be joined by a
third of 27,500 tons deadweight which
will cost more than £2| million. Other
tankers under time- and voyage-charters
are also more than paying their way.
In other guises, Sleigh also acts as
broker, agent, exporter and merchant and
handles primary produce, milk products,
etc. A late development is the export of
coal to Japan.
Receipts from Sleigh’s products are
now running into £22 million annually,
and on this figure the group grossed
£2,419,375 last term, after charging
£594,822 (£510,595 in 1957) for deprecia-
tion on fixed assets. Tax, provided for
at the rate of £1,053,353 (£805,186),
reduced this to a net £1,366,022 (up
£288,968), which, after deducting the pref.
div., gives an earning-rate of 28.3 p.c.
on ordinary capital, against an average
of 23.7 p.c. for the five preceding terms.
After payment during the year of
dividends totalling £498,000, additional
funds from all sources amounted to
£3,819,000, including £1,138,000 from
share-issues and premiums, and a
£686,000 increase in bank-accommoda-
tion: —
Paid capital— 1956. 1957. 1958.
Preference .. £600.000 £600,000 £600,000
Ordinary . . 2,737,200 3,504,640 5,128,222
Deferred .. 742,340 742,340 742,340
Reserves . . 1,411,668 2,165,850 2,530,921
Outside interests 3,335 3.636 3,626
Mortgages, etc. 1.721,450 1,673.144 521,940
Notes . . . . 600,000 500,000 500.000
Overdraft .. 312,722 453,150 1,138,549
Creditors .. 2.563,920 3,009,589 3,366.0,3
Staff funds . . 28.370
Tax provision. . 776,753 888,093 1,221,141
Final divs. . . 329.383 276,595 404,298
£ 11,695,771 £13,817,037 £16,185,480
Freeholds . . 2,464,836 3,402,724 4,457.306
Leaseholds . . 354,772 380,065 554,853
Plant, etc. .. 4,933,313 5,540,622 5,853,792
Shares other cos. 27,976 27.976 245.264
Stocks . . 1.636,245 1,923,468 2,014,628
Cash° lS j 1.924,913 2,212,279 2,735,468
Intangibles .. 356.716 329,903 321,169
£11,698,771 £13,817,037 £16,185,480
Application of funds covered increases
in freeholds and leaseholds (up
£1,279,000), plant (up £859,000), share
investments (up £220,000) and floating
assets (up £637,000), and a reduction of
£824,000 in trade creditors.
The relation between current liabilities
and assets, respectively £5,765,000 and
£4,460,000 perhaps provides in part the
rationale of the current note-issue ; but
the seeming tightness in the working-
capital position is probably more apparent
than real.
While there is no indication that all the
cream has yet been skimmed off this
stock, future gains are likely to come up a
little more slowly than heretofore. The
ords. last sold at 575. 6d., yielding 4.4
p.c. and the 1961 options at 265. 7d. On
the market until the 30th of this month,
the rights to the convertible notes are
fetching around 175., making the total
payable 425. (excluding brokerage) and
the yield to maturity 3.6 p.c.; assuming a
124 p.c. dividend rate, the yield on con-
version would be 6 p.c. As a result of
the issue of 730,154 bonus shares in June,
net tangible asset backing for the ords,
fell to 31s. Id.; for the prefs. it is 2865.
Davis Gelatine Consolidated, Ltd.
"O ising costs have hampered the pro-
gress of Davis Gelatine Consolidated
ever since the co. opened its account with
a rather attractive profit in 1955, and,
although sales have increased by over
20 p.c. in the past three years, net earn-
ings, while satisfactory, have failed to
reach the figure notched in 1954-55. At
the same time, the co.’s long-established
position as the sole manufacturer of
gelatine in Australia, New Zealand and,
more recently, South Africa, its extensive
export-markets and the solid financial
structure, all add to the possibilities of
the scrip, the sharemarket pricing the
£1 stock-units at 425. 3d. to return £3 15s.
9d. p.c. from an 8 p.c. distribution.
The Davis Gelatine organisation dates
back to 1881, when a small glue-factory
was established in Auckland, N.Z., the
production of gelatine commencing in
1913. Four years later, after an export-
market had been developed in Canada,
a factory was opened in Sydney, and by
1932 distributing subsidiaries were operat-
ing in Canada, South Africa and U.K.
A 70 p.c. share-interest in the only
gelatine-manufacturing concern in South
Africa was obtained in 1951, and in
January of this year manufacturing-
interests were extended to U.K., with the
purchase, for cash, of a 65 p.c. holding
in Geo. Nelson Dale and Co., Ltd.
In addition to edible gelatine, used in
numerous foodstuffs and domestic pre-
parations, the manufacturing offshoots
turn-out industrial gelatine, agar, glue
and adhesives (from both natural and
synthetic resins), with oil, tallow, bone-
flour, filter-materials and fertiliser as
readily saleable by-products.
Davis Gelatine Consolidated was


A. W. HARVEY, LOWE & CO.
STEPHEN I,OWE & GIIXES T. KBYGER
Stock & Sharebrokers
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
5 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
BW 2451
Teleg. Address
UNITY
CArv Mfwrfafotv
from
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE CO. LTD.
ft
To men and women who
desire Specialist advice
on the planning of their
Estates and their Wills
We invite you to ring B 0377
and make an appointment to call
and discuss matters. There is no
obligation and no charge.
If unable to call, perhaps we can
send an officer to call on you, failing
which we can send you a copy of
our booklet which contains a lot of
helpful information.
High taxation and high death
duties make careful planning essen-
tial. This Company has over 70
years’ experience and is well qualified
to advise you.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS,
ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
DIRECTORS: HON. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., cbaibman;
SIR EDWARD KNOX, viob-ohaibman ; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; JOHN W. DIJNLOP; JOHN DARLING;
A. G. ARMYTAGB, managing director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, manager.
3 3-3 9 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT TAMWORTH AND ORANGE
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (CANBERRA) LTD.
M.L.C. BUILDING, PETRIE STREET, CANBERRA CITY
LOCAL DIIIECTORS IN ADDITION TO THOSB MENTIONED ABOVB:
WARREN D. MCDONALD, vice-chairman;
S. G. McFARLANE; NEVILLE C. MILSON.
formed early in 1955 to bring
group interests under the con-
trol of a single holding-co., the
public putting-up £300,000 of
the £1,500,000 paid capital. An
8 p.c. div. has gone out in
each of the last three terms,
tax-free and partially tax-free
payments, in 1956 and 1957
respectively, practically
exhausting the tax- p a i d
reserves.
Strong competition and high
costs reduced exports from
Australia during the year to
June 30 last, but overall
demand continued at a “high
level,” total sales, including
exports by overseas offshoots,
rising by 10.8 p.c. to a record,
but undisclosed, figure. Costs,
however, rose at an even faster
rate, raw-material costs in par-
ticular, and pre-tax trading
profit fell by £30,598 to
£398,164, while income from
investments slipped by £11,899
to £4331. After deducting the
proportion attributable to
minority shareholders, provid-
ing £141,157 (down £23,426)
for taxation and allowing
£118,086 (up £39,476) for
depreciation, net earnings
finished-up £13,924 lighter at
£242,559:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Re-
June, Profit. f Dividends — serves.
£ £ £
Profit sale assets, £907 . . 248,777
’55.. 298,802 —. 547,579
Profit sale assets, £826 . . 548,405
Less adjustment capital re-
ser\e, £2290 .. .. 546,115
’56..241,816 8 p.c. = 120,000 667,931
Profit sale assets, £SS4 . . 668,785
To prov’n long-service leave,
31,946 636.839
Reduction intangibles, £1372 638,211
Unexpl’d addition, £1470 639,681
’57..250,483 8 p.c. = 120,000 776,164
Capital profits, etc. £30,974 807,138
Pre-acquisition profits,
£10,714 823,852
Unexpl’d addition, £12,413 836,265
Less added intangibles,
£58,393 .. .. 777,872
’5B. . 242,559 8 p.c. = 120,000 900,431
The 8 p.c. div. claimed a shade
under half of the profit which
represented a return of 16.1 p.c.
on share-capital, as against 17
p.c. in the preceding term,
16.1 p.c. in 1956 and 19.9 p.c.
in 1955.
Greater production-efficiency
and output are regarded by the
board as the main counter to
higher costs, and shareholders
at last week’s annual meeting
were told that “improved
results” might be expected on
completion of planned exten-
sions and plant-replacement.
The modernisation and pur-
chase of plant, along with the
U.K. deal, contributed to the
£419,073 put into fixed assets
last term, depreciation leaving
the net addition to conservative
(original cost less depreciation)
book-values at £274,455. To
help finance the capital-outlay
and the heavier stocks (up
£286,359), the group borrowed
an extra £178,295 from the
bank, raised £50,997 on short-
term debentures and drew on
holdings of cash, etc., to the
extent of £88,365:
1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £1,500,000 £1,500,000
Reserves . . 776,104 900,431
Outside interests 120,955 180.382
Debentures . . 50,997
Overdraft . . 101,520 279,815
Creditors . . 269,840 341,013
Prov. long-service
leave, etc. . . 56,820 55,588
Tax provision . . 195,620 184,081
Final div. . . 75,000 75,000
£3,095,919 £3,567,307
Fixed assets .. 1,327,160 1,601,615
Investments . . 17,172 8,706
Stock . . 1,044,561 1,330,920
Debtors . . 483,498 490,903
Cash, bonds, etc. 223,528 135,163
£3,095,919 £3,567,307
Working-capital was down
£86,617 at £978,031 by the end
of the term, the ratio of cur-
rent assets to current liabilities
and provisions dropping from
2.52 : 1 to 1.99 : 1. There
appears to be some room for
loan- or note-money should
the continued expenditure on
plant call for additional funds.
Negotiations were recently
concluded covering an “appro-
priate” exchange of scrip
between a South African off-
shoot and African Glue Indus-
tries, Ltd. A subsidiary of
National Trading Co., Ltd., the
South African co. is largest
producer, in that country, of
animal glue, bone-phosphate,
etc.
At June 30 last the consoli-
dated accounts showed 325. in
net-tangible assets for each of
the f.-p. £1 ords.
William Crosby (Hold-
ings), Ltd.
A lthough the five-year-old
William Crosby (Hold-
ings), Ltd., has yet to turn-in
anything better than a moder-
ate profit, last disap-
pointing performance was due,
in the main, to somewhat
abnormal circumstances, and
the co. appears capable of
making a good recovery in the
current term. However, the
average earning-rate offers
shareholders little encourage-
ment, the record profit claimed
in the 1956-57 term represent-
ing only 9.9 p.c. on share-
capital.
A shipping and agency busi-
ness, founded in Hobart over
100 years ago, was the fore-
runner of the present William
Crosby organisation, and many
of the group’s numerous and
diversified interests spring
from this early association
with shipping. Four of the
10 operating subsidiaries are
shipping-, insurance- or
Customs-agents, and another a
stevedoring-contractor*, while
investment interests include
shareholdings in stevedoring,
salvage and ship-repairing cos.
In the 1955 term the Vic-
torian fruit-exporter, J. E.
Butler Pty., was added to the
group, and this side of the busi-
ness was extended in the fol-
lowing year by the purchase of
the Westralian firm of Doyle,
Momber and Co. In the same
year 80,000 £1 ords. and 84,383
£1 7 p.c. notes were issued in
exchange for the share-capital
of Frank Hammond Pty., a


Nothing can equal
A Government-Guaranteed
Investment for
Complete Security!
GOVERNMENT - GUARANTEED
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
5V«% LOAN
For
5, 10 or 20 YEARS
® GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED— The Loan is
unconditionally guaranteed by the N.S.W. Govern-
ment and is also secured on the Board’s income,
estimated at £13,900,000 for 1958/39.
• TRUSTEE SECURITY— An Authorised Trustee
Investment in N.S.W., Queensland, Western Australia
and Tasmania.
• EASY TO INVEST —Applications are accepted at
any office of the Commonwealth Trading Bank, Aus-
tralia and New Zealand Bank Limited, Bank of New
South Wales, The Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney Limited, or through members of Stock
Exchanges or at the Sydney Water Board offices.
SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
MW87.58
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant
supervision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY - - - BO 3445
108 Queen Street. MEEBOtJRNE - - MU 4081
Tasmanian cartage-contractor
and Customs - agent. This
transaction raised the all-ord.
capital of the Victorian-
registered parent co. to
£756,000, of which 112,000
came from a one-for-five par
issue in 1955.
Agency and merchandising
interests predominate, a long-
established merchandising busi-
ness (particularly concerned
with building-materials, hard-
ware, etc.) being carried on in
Victoria, Tasmania, N.S.W.
and W.A., but subsidiaries are
also engaged in the production
of concrete building-materials,
sensitised papers, blueprints
and as chrome-platers.
The fruit-exporting offshoot,
which operated at a loss in
1955-56, ran into trouble again
last term, this time as a result
of the strike by London dock-
workers. A glut of fresh fruit
on the U.K. market followed
the eventual release of large
shipments tied-up by this dis-
pute, and the subsidiary lost
heavily as a consequence,
finishing the year £30,063 in
the red, excluding capital-
profits. All other members of
the group operated profitably,
but the improved results
reported from Tasmania and
W.A., and an extra £2500 in
divs., etc. (£25,330), failed to
compensate for the loss
incurred by the exporting co.,
trading - profit falling by
£34,997 to £54,305 and net
earnings by £27,283 -to
£47,235:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Re-
June, Profit. / Dividends — N serves.”
£ £ £
1954. .59.730 f 8J p.c. = 33,542 7,885
Less prelim, exp., £5967.. 1.918
Tax overprovided, £737 .. 2,655
Pre-acquisition profits, £5912 8,567
Reduction intangibles. £3255 11,822
1955..62,442 81 p.c. = 46,667 27,597
Tax overprovided, £2405 .. 30,902
Share-premiums, £BOOO . . 38,002
Added intangibles, £11,971 26,031
Share-issue exp., £l5ll . . 24.520
1956 . . 57.552 81 p.c. = 51,500 30.572
Share-premiums, £583 .. 31,155
Tax underprovided', £1132.. 30,023
Less adjustment minority
interest. £385 . . . . 29,638
Add reduction intangibles,
£246 29.884
1957. 8J p.c. = 56,333 48.069
Capital profits, £16,680 . . 04,749
Tax overprovided. £3414 .. 68,163
1958. 8J p.c. = 63,000 52,398
* After deducting intangibles. t Five
months only for parent co.
Equal to 6.2 p.c. on paid capi-
tal, the lower profit was
written after providing £32,400
(down £5214) for taxation and
£25,510 (up £5937) for depre-
ciation. Scrip issued to share-
holders in Frank Hammond
Pty. ranked for dividend last
term for the first time, and the
£63,000 required to maintain
the 8| p.c. div.-rate exceeded
earnings by £15,765, but,
thanks to capital - profits
(£16,680) and an overprovision
for tax (£3414), £4328 was
added to the relatively small
net reserves.
Group finances are in quite
good shape, a £49,445 increase
in deferred liabilities last term
being accompanied by a
£66,699 improvement in work-
ing-capital. The debt to the
bank was reduced by £60,258,
while book - debts, down
£40,657 in the preceding term,
rose by £37,505:
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE,SHEET.
1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £756,000 £756,000
Reserves . . 68,900 73,259
Minority interest 8.254 9,130
Mortgage . . 138,500 186,242
Deposits .. 48.000 49,703
Overdraft . . 144,367 84,109
Creditors . . 194,559 216,137
i’ax-prov ision .. 37,621 33.248
Final div. . . 56.333 63,000
£1,452,564 £1,470,82S
Freeholds . . 535,297 523,248
Plant, etc. . . 140.248 134,474
Shares other cos. 161,011 164,300
Stock .. .. 394.045 389,341
Debtors . . 192,488 229,993
Cash, bonds, etc. 8,614 8,608
Intangibles . . 20.861 20,861
£1,452,564 £1,470,828
The basis on which shares in
other cos. are valued isn't
shown in the accounts, £94,619
of the £164,300 against this
head.ng relating to scrip in
listed cos. The group is-known
to have held a large parcel of
shares in Ballarat Products,
Ltd. (biscuit - manufacturers
and ham- and bacon-curers),
but, considering the size of the
investment portfolio, share-
holders might well expect some
indication of the value and the
exact nature of their invest-
ments.
Sharemarket support for the
co.’s f.-p. £1 ords. has been
rather patchy over the last two
or three months, the scrip sell-
ing last week at 18s. 7d. Main-
tainance of the 8| p.c. div.-
rate, unchanged since forma-
tion of the co., would give
buyers at this price a return of
£8 19s. 4d. p.c. Net tangible
cover at June 30 was 21s. sd.
(consolidated accounts).


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
lleorge Ellison Switch (iear,
eU. Makers of Classifiers,
Mater l'llters, Steam Valves,
etc
watch his eyes
LIGHT UP
when you give him a
tiliii
rm
this Christmas
Barling Briar Pipes are cut from rare roots of
great age. Only the finest grains are selected.
There is no "breaking in" and, to ensure free
draught, only the finest vulcanite is bored.
Give him a Barling—he'll be delighted.
Obtainable from all Leading
Tobacconists
Trade enquiries: Box 502, G.P.0., Sydney.
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
'T'he short but costly strike
A and the Court of Inquiry
that followed have disclosed a
lamentable state of affairs at
London Airport. Trouble
among the 4000 maintenance
engineers employed by
8.0.A.C. has been brewing for
five years. The management is
shown to have been high-
handed in approach and
dilatory in attending to the
men’s claims and complaints.
At the other level, organised
trade - unionism has com-
pletely failed to adapt itself to
the needs of a new industry.
As a result, and following
the pattern of other industries
where staff-relations are poor,
control has passed into the
hands of the shop-stewards.
The story, like the causes of
the strike, is obscure, but the
men’s chief grievance is that
their efforts to form their
own union, the Aeronautical
Engineers’ Association, was
sidetracked by the T.U.C. with,
they feel, the connivance of
8.0.A.C.
Because of the T.U.C.’s
reluctance to disturb its com-
fortable set-up, 17 different
unions are represented on the
National Joint Council for
civil air-transport. When James
Matthews, outspoken anti-
Communist secretary of this
latter body, arrived at the air-
port to try to persuade the
engineers to end their unofficial
strike, the police asked him
not to carry-on, as a gang of
men were waiting to break-up
the meeting and the men’s
tempers were inflamed. Instead,
the Communist chairman of
the unofficial strike-committee
held a meeting which was
attended by 2000 strikers.
On the face of it, the manage-
ment has won. The shop-
stewards had to recommend a
return to work because, being
unable to get the B.E.A.
engineers to join them, support
for the strike was fading.
Negotiations on the pending
wage-claim are to be resumed,
and the Court of Inquiry, long
sought by the corporation, is
now an accomplished fact. Yet
there is a suspicion that the
shop-stewards’ capitulation was
tactical only, a withdrawal
carefully timed to take place
before the men began to lose
confidence in them.
There are two interesting
lessons in the whole affair. One
is that the sabotage of industry
is, to some people, a way of
life in itself and not necessarily
a politically inspired course of
action. Many of the agitators
at present striving to make
trouble are so-called Trot-
skyists, ex-Communists who
defected or were expelled from
the party after the Hungarian
revolution.
The other is that where
mutual confidence and under-
standing exist between em-
ployer and employee agitators
are powerless and impotent.
Hands Across the Rhine
Commentators have rarely
been so embarrassed as during
the visit of President Heuss to
the U.K. in October. The fact
that he was the first German
head of State to receive an
official welcome since Kaiser
William in 1907 was scarcely
a comforting recollection. In
the pageantry of the streets,
crowds were polite but distant
and cool. At Guildhall many
of the guests raised their glasses,
but refused to drink the toast.
At least this venerable (and
well-chosen) old gentleman had
candor and sense of humor
enough to recognise the chilly
atmosphere and even to admit
his country’s part in the form-
ing of it. The visit was thus
quite free of humbug, and on
that account refreshingly dif-
ferent from some others of its
kind.
The Queen’s public reference
to her—and her husband’s—
German ancestry was as brave
an admission as it was stagger-
ing to many of her subjects, for
a few more shocks of this kind
could easily undermine her
popularity. It is fair to
emphasise, as has been pointed
out in leading-articles, that
Britain and Western Germany
have much in common
strategically and economically,
and also that such an admis-
sion (some people would say
confession) as the Queen’s
must be deliberately inspired by
considered statesmanship.
There are real indications,
too, that a “never-again’’ con-
viction is at the back of the
minds of most Germans. This
was touched-off by the astound-
ing and overwhelmingly sin-
cere reaction, particularly
among the younger people, to
“The Diary of Anne Frank.”
But to break down the sus-
picion and mistrust of the
British people will not' be
achieved by State visits. Noth-
ing less than a lifetime of
democracy, and good-neighbor-
liness in Germany will be
needed.
For the Groundlings
The Old Vic, which is
dependent upon its audiences
for four-fifths of its revenue,
must from time to time defer to
the groundlings. When this is
done (or, more correctly, over-
done) the mature playgoer or
the Shakspearian scholar is apt
to be embarrassed. The out-
come is not always good art,
for the theatrical effects tend
to be blatant. Armor is too
bulbous, weapons thump and
clang too prominently, the
“crowd” is grossly overdrawn,
the humor is more pointed
than subtle, the actors strut and
fret with a shade more ostenta-
tion than is apt, and blood
flows profusely and horribly
from the greasepaint-pot.
The two plays the public
wants most are “Julius Caesar”
and “The Merchant of Venice.”
That they are not the two best
plays is beside the point. But
they both give the producer
the same headache: after the
big scene, unhappily over much
too early, interest is difficult to
sustain.
For all its flamboyance,
Michael Benthall’s “Julius.
Cassar” achieves the rarity of
superb cohesion. He neatly
picks out and labels the con-
spirators, illuminates the dia-
logue with textual, if very
noisy, atmosphere and strikes a
firm dramatic balance between
the two parts, one of anarchical
and the other of conventional
strife. The Rome scenes are
vociferous, rollicking and unin-
hibited, while the Philippi
scenes are quiet, eloquent and
soothing, like a slow move-
ment.
The acting is memorable less
for its classical purity than for
its individuality. John Phillips's
Brutus, though exuding in-
herent goodness, appears to be
activated by weakness rather
than strength of character, but
reappears later as a command-
ing martial figure. Jack May's
Julius—and, later, Octavius —-
Caesar are as postured with
mannerism as Gilbert’s Mikado
of Japan. Mark Antony
(Ronald Lewis) has both the
smoothness of a general-
manager’s personal assistant
and the radiant presence of an
ascendant star. Cassius
(Michael Hordern) is without
a trace of wickedness, but this
unusual characterisation has a
merit and a justification which
the well-known “Yon Cassius
. . .” aside has denied, Derek
Francis gives bluntness and
humor to Casca and shares
with the producer the distinc-
tion of bringing one short
sequence to life. Chivalry for-
bids the naming of the two
females ; one is adequate and
the other, on this performance,
not yet of full professional
standard.


Convalescent Home
By LES ROBINSON
At 6 a.m., or a little before,
the door of the ward is
thrust open by a heavy-
handed and heavily-shod
wardsman carrying a huge pot
of tea which he puts down on
a table, whereupon, clumping
out, he bangs the door after
him.
That, of course, is the end
of everybody’s repose.
The babbler —there would
seem to be at least one such
pest in nearly every ward —to
whom night is an affliction
since it stills his tongue, though
not always (this one talked in
his sleep), at once raises his
raucous voice. Having per-
chance heard a cockatoo
screech or a magpie warble in
the trees outside, he remarks
upon it, as indeed upon every-
thing or anything, and, un-
deterred, being pachyderma-
tous, by coughs, cat-calls,
groans, sarcastic clearing of
throats and other derisive
noises, proceeds to inflict upon
us a dissertation about the
bushland, of which, it is evi-
dent, he knows little or noth-
ing ; we, in his estimation
apparently, being an unenlight-
ened, unobservant and dull-
brained set of fellows. His
garrulity is made more virulent
and aggravating because of his
diction—pseudo-American and
modelled obviously on that of
some radio-announcer.
Pandemonium or its equi-
valent has, as usual, by this
time broken loose. Windows
are thrown up and doors are
being slammed all over the
building. If in fact it hadn’t
been soundly built those doors
would have fallen off their
hinges long ago. You might
easily imagine that the staff and
your fellow-patients had a
grievance against them. Water,
hot and cold, is pouring from
taps and hose-pipes on all three
floors. Buckets of it are being
dumped heavily in and sloshed
about the corridors.
"Oubbing the sleep out of our
eyes, we trudge stoically
hither and thither carrying
towels, soap, tooth-brushes and
shaving-gear. Some few, from
force of nabit, no doubt, are
as purposeful as though off to
work instead of being about
to spend a very long day doing
nothing in particular. The
loud-voiced, bawling “good-
morning!” at each other, as
though a hundred yards instead
of only a few feet apart, out-
number the noiseless, if indeed
there are any. To be seen but
not heard wouldn’t suit them at
all. They contrive in divers
ways, unwittingly perhaps and
no matter what they are doing,
to make a never-ceasing clatter.
Anyone unacquainted with the
establishment who found his
way inside it might easily con-
clude that it was some branch
of heavy industry striving to
catch up on a lag in produc-
tion, rather than a hospice for
the convalescent.
After they have finished
their breakfast, the patients,
most of them at all events,
don’t seem to know what to do
with themselves. There are
book-cases —two of them in
the living-room—containing an
assortment of reading-matter,
miscellaneous and musty,
dating back to about the time
of Queen Victoria. If, peer-
ing through the glass, you
happened to see a book you
thought might be readable, the
procedure was to go in search
of the gardener, who, between
nine and ten in the morning,
if not too busy, would get the
keys, unlock the case, and,
after making a note of the
transaction on a writing-pad,
would let you take the book
you had selected away with
you.
Those who read anything at
all, unless perhaps newspapers,
are, however, in a minority.
ID xcept to eat, sleep, mooch
' about, ruminate like the
cows in the adjoining paddocks,
and, as a change from veranda-
posts, lean against the trees,
there isn’t much they can do.
In the vilkage, within half-an-
"I TOLD you you overtipped last time we Were here!”
hour’s walk, some of them
doubtless would be able to find
a way of amusing themselves,
but it is against the rules of
the sanatorium to leave its
confines without • permission
except for about an hour on
two afternoons in the week.
Anybody who flouts the rules,
especially to an extent that is
flagrant, is promptly expelled.
Here and there a crossword-
puzzle addict is to be seen
intent upon the pastime and
oblivious to his surroundings
in the best and worst of
weather. Draughts, dominoes
and solitaire enslave the
attention of others just as
completely. One or two of
the older patients, you notice,
seem to have learnt how (per-
haps you envy them) to be
comatose, in spite of the flies,
for hours and hours. They all,
however, are careful to remain
within hearing of the dinner-
bell, for meals are eaten rapidly,
the plates stacked and the
remnants whisked away often
before, if you lack celerity
at the dinner-table, you have
finished your second or third
cup of tea.
Each prisoner—beg pardon,
patient—cleans his own knife,
fork, cup and spoon, which he
then takes back with him to
the dormitory ; makes his own
bed, and, if able to use both
hands, does his own washing.
Although the lights are
switched-off at or about 9 p.m.
you are awake until later, in
fact much later, for the mos-
quitoes —a rural species, large
and ravenous —are onto you
straight away. And there are
the talkative, of course, who
keep on and on and on until
they themselves or those upon
whom they are expending their
chatter at long last fall asleep.
After that there are the
snores to contend against, some
of them unique. One of the
sleepers sounds like a worn-
out locomotive, striving as it
were, with a full head of steam,
to be on the move ; another
like somebody trying, with a
blunt and rusty saw, to cut
a log in half. It would be easy
to imagine, while listening to
him, that you are lying in bed
out in the bush somewhere.
Every now and then the saw
would seem to jam, and the
sawyer, as though overwhelmed
b> weariness, be compelled to
take a rest, and you wait on
tenterhooks for the sawing to
begin again.
Other extraordinary sounds,
made presumably by the
respiratory organs, resemble
those only to be heard as a rule,
but not very often, at the zoo.


<■•* <a
with
■ *
r fi ?
Gillette
TRW
'TAILOR-MADE'
TO HIS BEARD
There’s no finer gift than a Gillette set
for the man on your list . . . It’s the gift
he'd choose—for the precise engineering
of the quick-action one-piece razor, the
keen sharpness of the Blue Gillette blades.
Select his Gillette set now at your
favourite shop.
Other Gillette Gift sets
availeble, up to 45
Gillrtt*
kiLAOES
SPENSER
6^V e D ts
0
Ti
Blue Gillette
blades dressed up
for Christmas, too!
10-blade dispensers, 4/4
20-blade dispensers, 8/8
Gillette
LIGHT
WEIGHT
for sensitive skins
or men who prefer
a light razor
Gillette
MEDIUM
WEIGHT
for men with
average skin
and beard
Gillette
HEAVY
WEIGHT
for tough beards
or men who prefer
a heavy razor
ONLY
15'-
EACH


Summing-up for Saturday
With only a few days to go to
Federal polling-day it cannot be
said that the election-campaign
has made much difference to
the chances of the rival parties. Roy
Morgan’s Gallup polls—on past records
fairly accurate in the matter of Federal
voting—showed a slight improvement in
the popularity of both the Government
and Labor parties between September
and the beginning of this month, due to
some of the “undecideds” having in the
meantime made up their minds. A later
poll in a limited number of electorates
showed a swing to Labor, with a corre-
sponding drop in Liberal and D.L.P.
popularity and with ‘"undecideds” grow-
ing again in number. The swing did not
appear to be enough to lose the Govern-
ment more than a few seats.
On appearances the D.L.P. has not
made the impact on the A.L.P. vote
generally that it made in Victoria (under
the name of Anti-Communist Labor
party) in 1955. For one thing, it has no
sitting members in the Reps. It had
seven last time. But its vote will be im-
portant in some electorates. The
common assumption that all D.L.P.
supporters are Labor voters led
astray is quite erroneous ; analysis of
Victorian election figures indicates that
a considerable proportion are dissident
Liberals who for religious or other
reasons give their No. 1 vote to the new
party; the second-preferences of this
group would certainly be among the
large swag of D.L.P. prefs. that finish-up
in the Government corner.
In the old Parliament the Liberal and
Country parties held 75 seats and Labor
46, so the Opposition will have to win
at least 15 seats from the Government
to throw it out. At any time this would
be a formidable task ; with the D.L.P.
campaigning against Labor it is well-nigh
impossible.
New South Wales
Tn N.S.W. the Government holds 25
seats and Labor 21 ; the majority of
these are very strongly held.
On the 1955 figures three Government
seats in N.S.W. are threatened. All have
see-sawed before and all were captured
from Labor at the last election. These
are the metropolitan seats Phillip and
St. George and the country seat Hume.
W. J. Aston won Phillip from J. F.
Fitzgerald last time by 917 votes ; Fitz-
gerald had held it since 1949, always
by a small majority. The two men will
be opponents again on Saturday, with a
D.L.P. candidate and an Independent to
complete the field. Fitzgerald’s task
roughly is to draw about 460 more votes
from Aston than the other two candi-
dates can take from him. It won’t be
easy.
In St. George the position is similar.
Bruce Graham won it in 1949 and 1951,
lost it to Nelson Lemmon (A.L.P.) in
1954 and won it back by 2029 votes three
years ago. Lemmon isn’t standing this
time, and his successor, L. D. Clay, has
to contend with D.L.P. competition from
M. D. Nappa. D.L.P. strength in N.S.W.
is difficult to assess, but it will probably
be strong enough to make Clay’s answer
a lemon.
Hume is another swinger. It went to
C. G. Anderson (C.P.) in 1949; to
Arthur Fuller (A.L.P.) in 1951 and 1954 ;
back to Anderson in 1955—by 1715 votes.
Fuller is having another try, and a D.L.P.
man (R. J. Nolan) is making it a three-
some. Another case for preferences, with
the odds on Anderson.
Ordinarily, Labor, having struck rock-
bottom in 1955, would not be expected
to lose any seats this time, but three-
cornered fights make Les Haylen’s Parkes
(majority 600 last time), Evatt’s deserted
Barton (226) and L. Johnson’s Hughes
(1860) look very shaky. The position in
Hughes is complicated by the addition
of about 11,000 new voters to the rolls.
Other Labor seats in which the intrusion
of the D.L.P. could at least mean a count
of second-preferences are Eden-Monaro,
Kingsford-Smith, Lang and Macquarie.
Victoria
Tt was in Victoria that Labor suffered
a real debacle in 1955, mainly due
to the split in the party. It lost Ballaarat,
Maribyrnong, Wannon and Fawkner and
failed to win the new seat Bruce. In
Ballaarat and Maribyrnong 82 per cent,
of D.L.P. preferences went to the Liberal
candidate ; in Bruce, 73 per cent, and
in Wannon, 67 per cent.
- In most of these the final Government
majority was substantial, but in Mari-
byrnong P. W. Stokes won by only 114
votes and will be hard put to hold the
seat on Saturday, though the fact that
his opponent is newcomer D. G. Elliott
instead of veteran Arthur Drakeford may
help him a little. In Fawkner last time
the A.L.P. candidate finished last on the
list and most of his preferences went to
former member W. M. Bourke (D.L.P.).
However, there was sufficient leakage (28
per cent.) to put Peter Howson (Lib.) in.
Bourke and Howson will be opposed
again on November 22, with medico
G. F. Smart carrying the Labor banner.
At the 1955 election there was con-
siderable variation in the D.L.P.
preferences distributed. Personality
seemed an important factor. In holding
Batman and Lalor for Labor, Bird and
Pollard received only 13 per cent, of
D. preferences, but P. J. Clarey,
thought to be a goner in Bendigo, netted
37 p.c. and won the seat; in Wills,
Bryant got 28 p.c. These seats are
Labor’s only real risks in Victoria. They
should be held, though S. M. Keon
(D.L.P.) may be expected to give J. F.
Cairns another hard fight in Yarra.
Queensland
"III7TTH the Q.L.P. in the field it doesn’t
’ * seem likely that the Government will
lose any seats in Queensland. Fourteen
months ago at the State election the
Q.L.P. polled 23 p.c. of the total votes,
and it is contesting every Federal seat
except Oxley.
The Government’s only marginally-
held seats are Moreton (D. J. Killen,
majority 1407) and Maranoa, in which
Brimblecombe (C.P.) beat Independent
Charles Russell by 728 last election.
Labor did not contest the seat, but threw
its weight behind Russell. On Saturday
Brimblecombe will be opposed by A.L.P.
and Q.L.P. candidates. His biggest threat
may come from Q.L.P. man Alf.
Dohring, former State member for Roma,
rather than from the official Labor candi-
date, L. D. Beaumont.
The two most vulnerable Labor seats
are Griffith, a metropolitan electorate
won narrowly at the last two elections
by W. C. Coutts (majority last time
1040); and the late H. A. Bruce’s
northern seat Leichhardt (majority last
election 1261).
S.A., W.A. and Tasmania
lyo Government seats are in danger in
' South Australia ; two Labor elec-
torates are in the marginal class. Adelaide,
held since 1943 by Cyril Chambers, gave
him in 1955 a small majority of 450
over Liberal, D.L.P. and Communist
opponents. Chambers having been
dropped from the party for criticising
Dr. Evatt, his successor as official
A.L.P. candidate (C. L. Sexton) will have
his work cut out to stave off Liberal
and D.L.P. opposition. Kingston gave
Pat Galvin a majority of 1300 last time
in a straight-out contest with the L.C.P.
On Saturday he will also have to contend
with a D.L.P. candidate.
Westralia returned four Government
members unopposed in 1955 —in the
Canning, Curtin, Forrest and Moore
seats —and gave Cleaver a 6000 majority
in Swan. Only Chaney (in Perth) had
to breathe hard ; he finished 1039 ahead
of former Labor M.H.R. Tom Burke.
This time he should be helped by the
Labor split—many former supporters of
Burke, who once contested the A.L.P.
leadership with Evatt, may be expected
to vote D.L.P. on Saturday. Labor’s
hold on Fremantle and Kalgoorlie is
strong, but C. H. Webb’s majority in
Stirling (2051), though comfortable
enough in normal circumstances, isn't so
safe against D.L.P. intrusion.
There is little likelihood of any
change either way in the five Tasmanian
seats. The Government holds Braddon,
Denison and Franklin with reasonable
comfort and Labor seems likely to be
undisturbed in Bass and Wilmot, though
the D.L.P. vote will probably be stronger
than in 1955.


start thsdau right!
r
m
UlO^ G
END6 b
[•Ass.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The International
If ever a good little horse
deserved to have the luck
going all his way for a change
it was Sailor’s Guide, winner
on a protest last week of the
100,000-dollars Washington
International Stakes, run at
Laurel Racecourse, Maryland
(U.S.A.).
In Australia Sailor’s Guide
had won 18 races from 58
starts. Eighteen wins may not
sound the record of an un-
lucky horse especially to
the scores of owners who have
never won that many races
with a dozen horses. Yet the
“Sailor” was unlucky to be
racing when there was such
stiff opposition. Aside from
the 18 wins, he ran 21 minor
placings, including 13 seconds,
and often it was a case of the
good little-'un being beaten by
the good big-’un.
The Washington International
Slakes is unlikely ever to supplant
the English Derby as the classic
of the Turf in the eyes of breeders
throughout the world, but it may
be well on the way to becoming
the race of greatest international
popular interest. It is a good
example of what .can be done when
promotion and publicity build-up
happen to catch-on. And it hasn't
been done simply by outbidding
others in sheer weight of prize-
money. The 100,000 dollars put up
for the International is an accept-
able handout, but it is matched by
a whole string of other good events
in the States, and some go as high
as 250,000 dollars.
The International is run over
12 furlongs at weight for age,
and is a “by-invitation-only”
affair, with no entry-fees and
the Club footing the bill for
the round-trip by air for every
horse invited, together with
owner, trainer, groom and
rider. It was first run in 1952,
and since then, Queen Eliza-
beth, Winston Churchill and
Irish President Sean O'Kelly
are among owners who have
had their colors carried in the
Washington International.
This year's running drew 10
starters ; two each from
America, Ireland and (for the
first time) Soviet Russia, and
one apiece from West Ger-
many, Argentina, Venezuela
and Australia. The two
Russian entries, Garnir and
Zaryad, being from the same
stable (Moscow’s Horse Fac-
tory No. 33) and, of course,
in the same ownership, were
bracketed on the tote—com-
mendable standard practice in
the States when stablemates
start in the same race. It
should be tried here.
The Laurel racetrack, run as a
proprietary business concern since a
millionaire industrialist bought it
from the Maryland Turf Club 10
years ago, has been transformed
into one of the plushiest and
ritziest in the States, three-million-
dollar clubhouse and all. Amidst
all that, an odd anachronism was
the use of a walk-up, flag-start for
the big race. Idea supposedly was
that American entries, accustomed
to stall-starting, shouldn’t have any
advantage on that score over horses
“ You'll bowl with the wind and shock 'em with your
speed attack."
from countries where the stalls
aren’t used. But, skipping the ques-
tion of stalls, it’s hard to imagine
where in the world a flag-start is
still used to any extent —unless it is
in Russia. Certainly the two Rus-
sian boys riding in the International
seemed to be the best-versed in flag-
starting; between them they man-
aged to beat the gun in seven false
starts.
Eventually they got away
well, except that one of the
Russian boys this time was left
flat-footed, claiming afterwards
that he was carrying the
assistant-starter by way of
extra weight, hooked onto his
reins. Two minutes 33j
seconds later, after the best
part of two circuits of the
tight little seven-furlongs
track, they passed the post, with
American entry Tudor Era
leading Sailor’s Guide by nearly
four lengths, and the Sailor in
turn just shading the Irish
entry and hot favorite, Bally-
moss, in a photo for second
place.
Sailor’s Guide’s rider,
Howard Grant, a 19-year-old
who is close to the top of the
U.S. ride r s’ premiership,
immediately fired in a protest
on the comprehensive ground
that he was “fouled all the
way I ’—officially translated into
“interference throughout the
race” —and in very short order
the protest was upheld.
In post-mortems all the usual
twaddle about the “sportsmanship”
of protesting in such a big race
was trotted out, the idea evidently
being that it’s quite in order to
object if foul riding has done you
out of a ten-quid purse at the
Woopwoop picnic-meeting, but it’s
jolly bad form to take exception if
foul riding is costing you forty-
thousand. Sailor’s Guide's owners,
A. C. Dibb and his son, were
reported as saying: “If the jockey
had asked us we would not have
lef him protest. In Australia this
would never have happened.”.
Which seems a darned good argu-
ment in .favor of the American
system, whereby if the jockey wants
to protest that’s all about it; the
owners have no further say; whereas
in Australia they could overrule the
rider and lodge no protest.
If a rider reckons he’s been the
victim of foul tactics, and he is
supported by the evidence of close-
up motion-picture record of the
whole race, plus what the stewards
themselves have observed, why on
earth should there be any question
of an owner overruling all the evi-
dence on sofne misguided notion of
sportsmanship— to say nothing of
overruling the claims of punters
who have backed the fouled horse?
Ir any case, if the owner is left
without any further say, it protects
him from the stupid charge of bad
sportsmanship in supporting the
protest.
In the International, it
must have been a really red-
hot case. Stewards couldn’t
help but be influenced by the
importance of the race and
the very big winning margin
Yet they took only 10 minutes
to view the race-film and up-
hold the protest. The chief
stipe said flatly: “The foul
which resulted in Sailor's
Guide being placed first was
obvious.” The boy who rode
Tudor Era was given 20 days’
suspension considered a
pretty solid sentence for inter-
ference in the States, where
these big meetings go on day
after day for weeks on end.
At all events, the result of
the International Stakes showed
that British thoroughbred
bloodstock can still look the
rest of the racing world square
in the eye. Of the first four
horses past the post, two were
the Irish entries Ballymoss
and Tharp (third and fourth) ;
the other pair on paper repre-
sented Australia and the
U.S.A. —but Tudor Era was
bred and did his early racing
in England, and Sailor's Guide
(by Lighthouse II from
Jehane) was sired in England
to Australian time, 'being then
foaled and raised at M. V.
Point’s Sledmere Stud, in the
heart of the N.S.W. Hunter
Valley country which has pro-
duced such a wealth of good
horseflesh.
Incidentally. Lighthouse IT later
came to Australia, and died only
a few weeks ago in South Australia.
Lighthouse II ran third in the Eng-
lish Derby and sired winners of
well over £lOO,OOO in England
before being brought to Australia
lor Tinagroo Stud. Later he was
bought by George Ryder for his
Woodlands Stud—also up in the
Hunter Valley country. At Wood-
lands today there is a fine crop of
youngsters by Lighthouse 11, includ-
ing a recently foaled full-brother to
Sailor's Guide. If this youngster
hits the sale-ring he should certainly
now fetch more than the Sailor
himself did as a yearling: Sailor’s
Guide was passed-in at 750gns. at
the yearling-sales, and when later
sold privately to the present owners
if was not for a great deal more.
* * *
Last of the Cups
It isn’t every year that the
Melbourne Racing Club has
as good a field for its Williams-


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACK&ON &
. o'S ULLIYW
t'i PTYLTD ,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL St COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
e
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
town Cup as it had last Satur-
day. The field wasn’t big, but
it included Melbourne Cup
winner Baystone, Caulfield
Cup and V.R.C. Derby winner
Sir Blink, and Derby runner-
up Master Rane. Of that good
trio only Master Rane
managed a place—third.
mm mm
Winner of the last of the
spring Cups was the greatly
improved Droll Prince, who
had won the Cantala Stakes at
his previous start. A five-year-
old entire, Droll Prince is one
of the best-bred horses in Aus-
tralia. By Melbourne Cup
record-holder Comic Court,
he’s from Ismalia by Portofino
from Amalia, one of the best
staying mares of recent years.
Amalia won the 1936 Aus-
tralian Cup and was unlucky
not to win the Melbourne Cup.
Portofino sired 1942 Melbourne
Cup winner Colonus.
• • • •
Droll Prince, a consistent
sort throughout his career, is
only now reaching his best.
His Williamstown Cup was the
most important success gained
by any of the Comic Court
stock.
• . • •: •
There was a curious parallel
between the running of the
One Thousand Guineas at the
Caulfield Cup meeting and the
M.R.C.’s Sandown Guineas at
the same track last Saturday.
Both races were set-weight
events for three-year-old fillies
over a mile. In the One
Thousand Guineas Wiggle
went out a pronounced odds-
on favorite, and was decisively
beaten by But Beautiful. Again
in the Sandown, Wiggle was
“in the red,” and again But
Beautiful proved too good for
the Rego filly. In between,
But Beautiful had been
defeated in the Oaks, while
Wiggle had won the w.-f.-a.
Linlithgow Stakes, so race-
goers were justified in expect-
ing Wiggle to reverse her defeat
in the One Thousand Guineas.
It does seem that, good as
Wiggle is, But Beautiful is even
better. Certainly it is a long
time since the Australian Turf
has seen two such outstanding
fillies race in the one season.
Between them they have won
16 races. In 12 starts, But
Beautiful has won six times,
and has never been out of a
place; Wiggle has won 10
times from 15 starts, only once
unplaced.
Winner of the first division
of the Rawdon Stakes (a five-
furlongs event for two-year-
olds), the Chavey Down-
Querida colt Favoured Beau
is raced by the owners of
Chicquita, A. Lopes and F.
Dimattina, and carries that
good mare’s colors. Favoured
Beau cost 2000gns. at the
yearling-sales, and now that the
best youngsters are spelling he
should continue to win.
Winner of the second Raw-
don, Hyleena (second in both
her two previous outings—to
good ones in Repeal and Rit-
mar) appeared to race with
something in hand, but ran the
five furlongs in 59f on a track
that had absorbed a lot of
rain. Hyleena is a Nilo filly
from Hyroanie; A. H.
Griffiths, who races her in
partnership with his wife, also
raced Hyroanie.
About this time last year a
lot was expected from the then
two-year-old Altergo, who won
a couple of races in good
style. However, trainer Bob
Wilkinson had trouble with
the youngster, and gave him an
extended spell. The gelding
landed the six-furlongs Strand
Handicap for three-year-olds
at Caulfield on Saturday, beat-
ing a useful field, and may go
on now to live up to his early
promise.
* * *
Sydney Racing
Conditions governing last
Saturday’s Warwick Farm Hox-
ton Park Stakes for two-year-
old colts and geldings favored
Romani, and the “figures cer-
tainty” duly won the sprint at
his ease, in a little over one
minute for the five furlongs.
The penalty-clause stated that
the winner of one Sydney race
would carry 71b. extra, two
races 101 b., and three or more
141 b. This meant that Romani,
after winning his first race at
Rosehill with 8.5, advanced to
8.12 for his second success
(Canterbury Park), and then
went up only 31b., to 9.1, for
his run at Warwick Farm.
Rosehill trainer Jack Daniels
has the Damtar colt looking a
picture, but there’s no suitable
race for him in immediate
programmes, which, for
youngsters, are restricted to
Maiden and Graduation gal-
lopers. They will race, under
handicap conditions at Canter-
bury on December 13.
Wall Street, narrow winner
of Warwick Farm’s Second
Maiden, was sold for 1250gns.
at the New Zealand yearling-
sales in January of last year.
The New Zealand Oaks winner,
Routine, won her classic the
same afternoon as Wall Street
opened his account. Routine
also figured in. the catalogue
for that sale. She is by Ruth-
less (imp.) from Faultina by
Defaulter from Cleaner by
Lord Quex. Faultina won 12
races and £7680 in stakes. Wall
Street, a member of T. J.
Smith’s Randwick team, is
raced by D. H. Blackie and
L. S. Otway, and is a grey
gelding by Khorassan (imp.)
from Chubin by Nizami (Fr.)
from Ann Acre by Acre.
Chubin won several races in
the Dominion.
Mexican Lady (imp.), winner
of Warwick Farm’s Birrong
Stakes (a Graduation event for
fillies and mares aged three and
upwards), had several starts in
England and was second in a
two-year-old event at Birming-
ham last November. Imported
to Sydney by owner-trainer
E. T. O’Sullivan, she had a run
at Newcastle (N.S.W.) on
July 26, when she started at
66 to 1 and finished fourth
in a Maiden. She is trained
at Warwick Farm, and evi-
dently locals were aware that
she would take a hand in the
finish of the Birrong. After
bets at 100 to 1, 66 to 1 and
50 to 1 had been made, the
price shortened sharply to 12
to 1. Ridden by successful
apprentice K. Parkinson, the
imported mare won easily, if
luckily, from Silk Sail and
Hubbub, both of them giving
her a long start, particularly
Silk Sail, who appeared a good
thing beaten, and who should
soon win for trainer Ted
McMenamin. Mexican Lady’s
stablemate, North Row, was
the closest of thirds to Wall
Street’ in the Second Maiden ;
he should soon win in similar
company. It was his first
Sydney start.
Racegoers should always be
ready for a first-up win by any
horse trained at Rosebery by
Leo O'Sullivan ; he has a habit
of getting them ready after a
spell to win quickly. Teranyan
added to the list with a con-
vincing win in the Horsley
Handicap at Warwick Farm


Divorce Notices
TO RONALD KEITH BRADLEY for-
nierly of Royal Park Military Camp
in the State of Victoria but now of
parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife YVETTE MARY BRADLEY
has 'commenced proceedings against you
for a Divorce on the grounds of de-
sertion during three years and upwards
UNLESS you enter an appearance in
the Office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court Melbourne on or before
the 12th day of January 1959 the case
may proceed in your absence and you
may be ordered to pav costs AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that if you
intend to defend the said proceedings
you must file an answer in the said
office on or before the 22nd day of
January 1959.—TH1S ADVERTISE-
MENT is inserted by the Public Soli-
citor, of 601 Little Collins Street, Mel-
bourne.
TO JOHN SEMINI formerly of Perth and
Nungarin Western Australia labourer. —
TAKE NOTICE that your Wife ELSIE
SEMINI has commenced proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for Divorce on the
ground that you and she have been
separated for a continuous period of not
less than five years immediately pre-
ceding the commencement of the action
and there is no reasonable likelihood
of cohabitation being resumed If you
desire to defend such proceedings you
must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within forty (40) clear days from the
date of this publication In default
of your so doing the case may proceed
and the Court will pronounce judgment
and make orders against you in your
absence. DATED this 10th dav of
November, 1958.—G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO LEO CYRIL LEWIS late of 180
Sydenham Road Marriekville.—TAKE
NOTICE that JEAN MAUREEN LEWIS
has filed Petition for Divorce No. 2641
of 1958 on" the ground of desertion
for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse and habitual
drunkenness and cruelty during three
years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sidney
by 29th of January 1959 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
fiorn LESLIE RUNDLE, 66 King Street,
Sidney. J. DOUGH AN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF YEV
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MALCOLM NOEL DELANEY lat
of V agga Wagga and Randwick in th
State of New South Wales AND T(
MALREEN MULQUENNY late o
Magga Wagga in the said State.—TAKl
NOTICE that BETTY RUTH DELANEI
has filed a Petition No. 3495 of 1951
praying for a Divorce from MALCOLA
NOEL DELANEY on the grounds o
desertion without just cause or excuse
tor three years and upwards am
adultery with MAUREEN MULQUENNI
p, , 1 , 8 asking for the exercise of th
courts discretion under Section 19 (2
isoo ?Lo the Matrimonial Causes Ac
hlTAvri - If - VOU MALCOLM NOEI
„„ ANEI wish to defend you may ente
an appearance at the Divorce Registi
lipvS Buddln j? Macquarie Street Syd
y‘,i a * v of January 1951
annlv “ A V® EE * MULQUENNY ma
to i'pWi Baid Court t 0 be allowe,
he m y copy of the Petition ma'
chaite f Cd by either of - you "ithou
COHfy I on \, MESSRS. MADDOCKf
Martin MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 3f
Registrar! 3Ce ’ S - vdney -~J- DOUGHAN
WHY SUFFER FROM
RHEUMATISM - ARTHRITIS
Compounded from an old Indian Formula, STRATTONS RHEUMATIC
and ARTHRITIS POWDER contains no harmful drugs, will not affect
the heart and has successfully overcome the most difficult and
obstinate cases when all other treatments have failed. Persons in all
walks of life have found freedom from suffering, and hundreds of
grateful letters from satisfied users have been received by our
Consultant whose Treatment Advice is made available to you
FREE OF CHARGE as part of our Personalised Service which has
revolutionised the treatment of all types of Rheumatism and Arthritis
throughout the Commonwealth.
Four Weeks Treatment complete with Advice and Instructions and a
SPECIAL CONCESSION VOUCHER if your complaint needs
treatment . . . costs only £1 POST FREE.
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC POWDER Ltd.
9 Barrack St., Perth, W.A. '
—he hadn’t started since last
July. Tom Hill was seen to
advantage on the winner, who
may be set for the A.J.C.
Villiers Stakes next month.
The Newtown Wonder (imp.)
filly Sweet Victory has had four
starts for two wins and a
second. In her wins—both at
Warwick Farm —she showed a
fine turn of speed. In the first,
on October 29, she ran the five
furlongs in race-record time.
Last Saturday, in the Maltine
Stakes (fillies), she won on the
bit, beating Parabola and
Spacewise (who raced greenly).
The T. J. Smith stable intends
to set Sweet Victory the task
of trying to beat the colts in
the December Stakes at
Randwick on Boxing Day.
* . * *
The Queensland Derby
looked, and proved, a soft snap
for the odds-on favorite Earl-
wood, who defeated outsider
Grand Garry and Drumdonda,
who was a distant third. Regal
Jester, from Randwick, made
a special trip for the classic,
though his race-form wasn’t in
the same street as the winner’s.
Earlwood may later be con-
sidered good enough to have
a shot at the Sydney Cup. He
is bred well enough to win at
two miles, being by Boxwood
(imp.), a son of Bois Roussel ;
dam is Honey Buzz, a mare
by The Buzzard (imp.). Honey
Buzz is a sister to Buzalong,
winner of the 1938 Caulfield
Cup. Earlwood’s time, 2.32 f,
was average for the classic.
Former Sydney galloper Grand
Charles won the Brisbane
Handicap the same afternoon
at 50 to 1.
* * *
Trots
Brilliant three-year-old pacer
Eden Monaro made a success-
ful return to racing in the
Three - year - old Stakes at
Harold Park last Friday night.
Challenged strongly in the
straight by Big Time, he went
on to a comfortable win. Driver
Jim Caffyn said that Eden
Monaro would now be set for
the £4OOO Pacers’ Derby in
May.
Also driven by Caffyn, con-
sistent pacer Noble Western
scored a brilliant win from
the 12yds.-mark in the Harold
Park Handicap, downing Sir
Raider and Bangaroo Lass and
beating Match Point’s race-
record of 3.8 f by two-fifths
of a second.
Caffyn made a night of it
by landing two more winners—
Roxy Volo, easy winner of
the Avalon Handicap, and
four-year-old Gorrelate in the
Collaroy Handicap. Other
drivers to score four wins
in a night’s racing at Harold
Park have been P. J. Hall
(April, 1951) and W. Picken
(September, 1953).
The Cricketers
N.S.W.’s first-innings against
the M.C.C. was a thing of con-
trasts —a brilliant 149 by
Harvey (like his 160 against
Queensland recently, he added only
a few runs to an overnight score
around the 150 mark); a weary,
dreary 104 by Test-opener Burke —
far too unnecessarily slow; ,84 not-
out by Norm O’Neill —more sedate
than his usual knocks, but with
flashes of. brilliance; 1 and 0 respec-
tively by those two good State bats-
men, Carroll and Booth; and his
•second successive “duck” in big
cricket by lan Craig.
• • • •
Craig’s failure is understandable,
as he’s been ill and thus restricted
in practice, has worries of cap-
taincy, and possibly is affected
psychologically by criticism through
his only-average performances in the
Tests in South Africa. No doubt
about it, Craig can make runs —
he’s proved it; still, he’ll soon have
to get some consistently if he’s to
earn and keep a place in the Tests.
Craig was picked to lead the
youthful Australian XI against
M.C.C. in Sydney this coming
Friday, but withdrew. Colin
McDonald and O’Neill are Test cer-
tainties; but all 11 are “possibles.”
Each Shield State is represented,
with two “expatriate” N. S. Welsh-
men, Simpson and Martin. The two
left-hand spinners, Martin and
Kline, both in the team, are rivals
for the one Test place. Burge, who
has played against England in Tests
and is always an attacking bat, is
in good form; fellow-Queenslander
Fisher is a lively pace-bowler and
handy bat. W.A. swing-bowler
Strauss was brought to Sydney for
the McCabe-O’Reilly testimonial
(Jan., 1957), but broke-down after
bowling 14 unsuccessful overs; and
thus ruled himself out of the South
African tour. Two S.A. players,
opener Stevens and ’keeper Jarman,
are also in the side.
* * *
S.A . Tennis Titles
The South Australian singles-
final was an all-Queensland
affair, Roy Emerson winning
his second major title by
defeating Mai Anderson, 3-6,
12-10, 10-8, 6-2. Emerson’s other
big win was the Queensland title
ir v 1957. It was the first time Emer-
son and Anderson had met in a
five-set championship match. Ander-
son was the previous holder of the
S.A. title, which he won after
defeating Cooper in straight sets in
a semi-final and Rose in five sets in
the final.
This year Cooper, who at the
start of the season looked likely to
make a clean sweep of the major
Australian titles, was downed by
Swede Jan Lundquist, 6-4, 7-5, 6-4,
in a quarter-final—the first straight-
sets defeat inflicted on him since
Anderson’s, win, earlier mentioned.
Cooper was well below top, after
a lightning dash to and from Mel-
bourne for a social occasion. At
the same time the other Swede, Ulf
Schmidt, eliminated Fraser —who
had no such excuse.
• • * •
A repetition of 1955 seemed pos-
sible, when the Swedish champion
Lennart Bergelin reached the S.A.
final, to be beaten by Vic Seixas.
Even, perhaps, an all-Swedish final;
but Lundquist and Schmidt both
went out (and both went out fast)
when they met Emerson and
Anderson respectively in the semis.
The doubles-title was won by the
Queenslanders Anderson and Laver,
who defeated Cooper and Fraser in,
five sets after losing the first two
sets, 4-6, 6-8, 11-9, 9-7, 6-3.
Anderson and Laver recently won
the Queensland doubles-title when
paired for the first time. Before
the S.A. doubles had been played,
these pairings were split for the
N.S.W. titles, which start today—
Anderson to pair with Fraser, Laver
with Cooper. Cooper and Fraser,
surprisingly, have not been particu-
larly successful in partnership;
though they usually reach the final,
they’ve lost more than they’ve won.
The women’s title was won by
19-year-old South African girl
Sandra Reynolds, who defeated
N.S.W.’s youthful Jan Lehane 6-4,
6-2. The two Springbokesses, Rey-
nolds and Schuurman, did very well
in this tourney, as they won the
women’s doubles-title, and Laver
and Miss Schuurman won the
mixed-doubles (from Mark and Miss
Reynolds).
<r * *
In 1959 “Golf News” will
conduct a golf competition
along the lines of Britain’s
Vardon Trophy competition.
A trophy will be awarded to
the amateur golfer in N.S.W.
who has the lowest average
for the year. A list of tourneys
will be named early next year,
and any amateur who com-
pletes 30 rounds in these events
will be eligible for the trophy.
Peter Thomson has with-
drawn from Australia’s
Canada Cup team to play in
Mexico later this year. Kel
Nagle will now partner Frank
Phillips—Nagle’s third appear-
ance in the Canada Cup.


R
A Christmas-gift to
bb
11
A "Bulletin" Bestseller
This charming and absorbing real-life story of
Australia ioo years ago, told in sparkling, gossipy prose
by Rachel Henning herself, has become a classic of
Australian biography in the short space of three years
since it was first published in book-form.
“The Letters of Rachel Henning” read like a
omantic novel. If you have never read them there is
real delight in store for you. If you have read them you
will realise what a charming present they will make for
i friend.
Not the smallest attraction. of the book are the
40 exquisite pen-drawings by Norman Lindsay.
Copies of "The Letters of Rachel Henning" will he
sent, post-free, to any address in Australia upon receipt
of 7s. 6d. (seven shillings and sixpence) by
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD..
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney,
and branch offices in Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.
HOT BRICKS
By "SHON "
The basic wage I draw
from my council job
doesn’t allow me much
to spend on beer. How-
ever, I usually have a couple of
pots after work on Friday.
1 had picked up a drink this
day, when a little chap in blue
singlet and shorts came rush-
ing in. He knocked my arm,
spilling the beer.
“Easy, mate. There's plenty
of room further down.”
“Sorry, cobber, but I don’t
mix with those rotten demons.”
He jerked a "thumb towards two
heavy characters drinking
quietly at the other end of the
bar.
“Have one with me,” he
added. “I’ve got a real Friday-
night thirst.”
Over the drink, I discovered
that the stranger's name was
Albert. I introduced myself:
“Dan Collinson.” We shook
hands.
“That will wash the brick-
dust down,” he said. “If I
didn’t have to start at six in
the morning I’d settle in for
a real session.”
Like most young married
men, I had often hoped for
a chance to earn some extra
money,, weekends. It was a
constant headache to Betty,
trying to work-out a budget.
“I only wish I had the
chance to do a bit on Saturday
mornings,’’ I remarked. “A
man doesn’t get much pocket-
money out of the basic wage
when he’s got a wife to keep.”
Albert thought for a moment.
“Maybe you. and me can
do business, son. I’ve got the
contract to clean-up the Hellco
Brickworks Saturday mornings,
and one of my regular men is
off for two weeks with appendi-
citis. Would you like to fill-
in?”
“What’s it worth?”
“Four-quid for the morn-
ing.” I noticed a short pause
before he added. “Just throw-
ing bricks onto a truck and off
again, son, and no questions.”
That worked out at three
times the rate of pay I was
drawing.
“Right-oh, that'll do me.
Where’ll I meet you?”
“Outside this pub at six-
o'clock in the morning. There'll
be another chap here, known
as Chum.”
T walked happily home from
*"■ the Red Dog. It was seldom
I had such good news to bring
from there.
“It’d take us three months to
save eight-quid,” I told Betty,
over tea that night.
“Yes, I know. It sounds too
good to be true, for two morn-
ings’ work. Sure there’s no
catch in it, Dan?”
“Well, Albert did say no
questions,' and he certainly
doesn't like detectives. There
were two in the bar he
avoided.”
“I hope it’s nothing shady,
dear.”
Betty sounded a little worried,
so I chipped in quickly: “I’ll*
only be doing what I’m told.
Anyway, I wonder what clean-
ing-up a brickworks entails?”
“If you can manage to get
out of bed at five-o’clock in
the morning you’ll find out.”
She laughed, as my liking for
bed is a long-standing joke.
CJharp on the dot of six the
big red truck lurched to a
stop outside the darkened Red
Dog. Chum and I climbed
into the cabin. We exchanged
brief good-mornings; then
Albert continued on his way
through the silent streets, to
pull-up at the locked gates of
the brickyard.
Chum silently dropped off,
unlocked the gate, and moved
aside as the truck went through.
We pulled-up at a neat,
double stack of wirecut bricks,
about 12ft. long and 4ft. high,
in the middle of the grounds.
Albert motioned me to one
end of the stack.
“We want the top five rows,
Dan. In the middle of the tray,
and as quick as you like.”
For perhaps 20 minutes we
sweated. By that time I esti-
mated that there were about
$OO bricks aboard.
“That’ll do, mate,” he called,
stepping back and surveying the
remaining stack on the ground.
He said with satisfaction.
“You wouldn’t know they’d
been touched.”
I didn’t comment. Betty
had been right. The brick-
works owners certainly
wouldn’t class this load as
rubble. Should I back out
now? If I did I’d lose my
£4 as well as create suspicion
in the minds of the other two.
Better to see the morning out,
I thought.
Albert gave a long-drawn-
out whistle. Shortly after,
Chum appeared from the direc-
tion of the main gate.
“Not a soul in sight. As
usual,” he said.
“Good. Let’s start cleaning-
up, then.” Albert set the truck
slowly moving in bottom gear.
“One each side of the truck,”
directed Chum. “All the
broken and half-baked bricks
lying around have to be thrown
over that load so that it’s well
covered.”
For an hour-and-a-half we
worked at this job. I was
nearly ready to drop when
Albert stopped the truck. The
Hellco works had been nicely
tidied-up, and the truck looked
as though it carried only a
heaped load of broken bricks.
Wearily we climbed aboard.
first stop was at a new
suburban house. The bats,
as I had learned to call broken
bricks, were thrown off. They
would be used to make a drive-
in. Albert collected £2 from
the owner.
Then, at a weatherboard
house about a mile further on,
the truck was backed up a
driveway. While Albert held a
whispered conversation with
the owner, I noticed a half-
finished brick garage.
A- few snatches of con-
versation drifted over: “Too
dear....” “Hot bricks....”
“All right, take a fiver cash.”
Albert turned and shouted:
“Right boys. Throw them off.”
A quarter-of-an-hour later he
lined-up the drinks in the Red
Dog and good-naturedly paid
us £4 each.
We drank the first beer in
silence, but my head was busy.
By pinching 500 bricks a week
and selling the bats, Albert
paid his men. Then the
contract-price for cleaning-up
the brickworks was all cop.
He was on a good thing. I
wondered how long he had
been getting away with it and
whether he was suspected or
not. 1 should have told him
then that I was finished with
hot bricks, but I thought of
the £4 and the many uses to
which we could put it. It
would only be for one more
Saturday and they seemed to
be pretty well organised. I


VEST
'N
*
*
A
A
SecU
NEW ISSUE
INDUSTRIAL AGCEPTANGE CORPORATION LTD.
Australia’s Leading Hire Purchase Organisation, announces a new issue of
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
•s*iA z * * *e # d %tS
*s*iX t ' * *e*d %f 9
•s-iA 9 • • urd %x
5% p.a. • . . I yr.
4i% p.a. o • 9 rnths.
4% p.a. . • 6 mths.
31% p.a. •• 3 mths.
I.A.C. guarantees fixed quarterly income, free of exchange. For full details, see Prospectus.
These are facts that the wise investor should know.
PAID UP CAPITAL
£ 10,000,000
ASSETS EXCEED
£55*000,000
A copy of the Prospectus has been
lodged with the Registrar General
in all Capital Cities and Canberra.
Our Auditors, Messrs. L. B. Wallace & Son,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.) wish to state
that as at 31st July, 1958, the amount of issued
Debenture Stock was £23,346,090 secured by a
first floating charge over the tangible assets
of the Company which amounted to
£58,626,014 at that date.
Your copy of the Prospectus is available from Members of Stock Exchanges, 703
Branches of A.N.Z. Bank Limited or I.A.C. Branches
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
(Established 28 years)
MELBOURNE • SYDNEY • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART • CANBERRA
• NEWCASTLE • GEELONG • WOLLONGONG • BUNBURY
Underwriting Brokers:
lan Potter & Co.,
Melbourne, Canberra <£ Sydney.
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders:
The Perpetual Executors & Trustees Association
of Australia Limited.
D9B
decided to string along and
hope lor the best.
/“\N the following week things
went just as smoothly. 1
received my pay and headed
home, glad to be finished with
the job.
As I scrubbed-up for dinner
I noticed that the palms of
my hands, which had been
unprotected by the leather
finger-shields, seemed to be
getting redder instead of
cleaner. I remarked on it to
Betty.
“A few more weeks of that
and I’d have hands like a Red
Indian.”
She looked at me strangely.
“Dan! Wait till I get to-
day's paper.”
The heading jumped out and
hit me like a blow: Police
Catch Brick Thieves.
After a moment I began to
read 4he column of print:
The management of the Hellco
Brickworks had sprinkled an
indelible red dust (indistinguishable
from brick-dust) over certain stacks
of bricks when their suspicions were
aroused about the cartage-firm
which had the contract to clean-up
the brickworks. Subsequently, two
men were arrested at the Red Dog
Hotel jn Teddington, where they
were located with the tell-tale red
stain on their hands. Another sus-
pected member of the group, was
not present, but police are making
inquiries.
“Hell, that’s lovely.”
I looked at my hands before
heading for the bathroom.
While I scrubbed, my mind was
busy. What could I do? Only
stay put and plead ignorance.
I should have known ... I
should have walked out after
the first day!
After' scrubbing for about
two hours with the pumice-
stone I had removed two layers
of skin and most of the color —
could I say I fell on the road
and explain the abrasions as a
gravel-rash? At least Albert
didn’t know my address ; and
I’d signed no receipts.
'yO'E lived in constant expecta-
tion of a knock on the
front-door for some weeks.
Then gradually our nerves
calmed down.
Three months later I
ventured again into the Red
Dog. Over a pot I mentioned
my fears to the barman. He
knew Albert well. He looked
at me in amazement.
“Hell’s bells!” he said. “The
demons knew you were only
filiing-in. The man they
wanted was Bill Turner,
Albert’s regular man. Those
three have been at it for years.
You could have earned a few
quid for yourself by turning
State's evidence if you’d
wanted to, but nobody could
find you. You weren't worried,
were you?”
I reached out and grabbed
the edge of the bar to steady
myself.
“Worried? Here, have a
beer with me, Mac. Then I
must go and see the wife. We
haven’t been worried not
bloody much!”
J still have a couple of pots
on Friday, and I’ve listened to
many schemes for making extra
money since, but I always shake
my head. Those bricks only
scorched my fingers ; next
time....


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE ARMY ON THE RHINE
T>ritain’s decision to retain
** the strength of its Rhine
Army at 55,000 for 1959,
instead of cutting it by
10,000 as previously threat-
ened by Defence Minister
Duncan Sandys, was naturally
welcomed by the U.S. and
Nato, because it averts a
further cut in the forces
available for the immediate
defence of Europe, and because
“it is heartening evidence of
the improvement of Britain’s
economic position—on which
that country’s contribution to
the protection of freedom
around the world ultimately
depends” (New York “Herald
Tribune”).
Reviewing the successive cuts
in the Rhine Army, the same
paper notes that “early in 1957,
the British came to the con-
clusion that their economic
position would not justify the
defence establishment to which
they were then committed,
especially in view of the
strategic changes introduced by
the development of missile war-
fare. In a White Paper issued
in April of that year it was
stated: ‘The time has come to
revise not merely the size but
the whole character of the
defence plan.’
“Accordingly, sweeping man-
power cuts were proposed—a
reduction from the then total
figure of 690,000 to 375,000 by
1962, and the eventual aboli-
tion of conscription. This
would involve diminishing the
Army of the Rhine, Britain’s
Nato contingent, from 77,000
men to 64,000 in the next 12
months ; ‘Further reductions,’
said the White Paper, ‘will be
made thereafter.’
“Successive cuts of 13,500
and 8500 men brought the
Army of the Rhine to 55,000
men, and in the course of
negotiations with the Bonn
Government over its contribu-
tion to the costs of the force,
the British proposed a further
reduction of 10,000 men last
April. It is this reduction
which has been postponed at
least through 1959.
“The reasons, according to a
British Government spokesman,
are that Britain’s external
financial position has improved
considerably since the agree-
ment was made and the United
States has indicated increased
dollar-help for joint-defence
research by the two countries.”
Those two reasons, however,
comments London “Econo-
mist,” “are quite the worst
reasons for deciding such a
matter of policy”:
“The original decision to cut
the force to 45,000 at the end
of this year followed the failure
to make an agreement on
support-costs with Germany
that was fully satisfactory to
Britain. The dissatisfaction
remains (it appears that the
Germans have so far spent less
here on arms than was
expected). The 10,000 men in
question are now to be kept
—London “News Chronicle"
THE MASTER BUILDER.
in Germany because Britain’s
balance-of-payments position
has so far improved that the
original excuse looks pretty
thin, and because, apparently,
the Americans have promised
contributions to defence-
development costs that will
reimburse Britain for the drain
of foreign exchange involved.
“This is no way to conduct
an alliance. The cost of main-
taining 10,000 men more-or-
less in Germany is a small
thing compared with the issues
involved. The real reason why
Mr. Sandys and the British
Government have changed
their minds is almost certainly
little to do with the money -(if
it is, so much the worse for
their reputation for foresight),
but that the Americans are
seriously concerned about the
morale and efficiency of Nato,
and of its shield force, in the
face of the succession of
British withdrawals. They
have made it worth our while
to come a little nearer to keep-
ing our pledge to Nato to main-
tain four divisions for the
common defence. They have
been able to carry the day,
partly because Bri t a i n’s
finances are better, but mainly
because recruiting for a regu-
lar, volunteer army promises to
produce the full 165,000 men
regarded by Mr. Sandys a 9
adequate—which means the
minimum capable of sustaining
four divisions in Europe as well
as other commitments over-
seas.
“But behind this develop-
ment lies the still weightier
factor that Mr. Sandys is find-
ing that his belief that Britain’s
allies would accept British
nuclear weapons as an accept-
able substitute for men under
arms was quite unfounded. He
is finding, too, that service
opinion (except in the R.A.F.)
increasingly insists upon ade-
quate conventional forces —
and that, in turn, implies full
support, on the ground, for the
conventional forces of our
allies.
“Even so, the right—if it is a
right—is still reserved to cut
the Rhine Army to 45,000 after
1959. Circumstances might,
indeed, render this desirable.
But they are more likely not
to, and such statements of bad
intentions ought not to be
made. Britain’s contribution to
Nato is the most obviously
rewarding part of its £ 1500-
million investment annually in
defence ; and this is the fact
that should be hammered
home in a period of nuclear
stalemate.”
U.K. Immigration
A London “Daily Telegraph”
writer who lately visited the
West Indies having reported
that the migration of West
Indians to Britain is going to
increase rather than diminish,
the same paper comments
editorially that “facile assump-
tions that the recent race riots
[in Britain] will deter further
immigration are clearly
wrong”:
“The possibility of broken
bones in Notting Hill will seem
a small risk to take to avoid
destitution and unemployment
in Jamaica and Trinidad. Nor
does it seem likely that the
West Indian authorities will go
out of their way to send to
Britain only their best people,
scrupulously keeping back their
less useful members for the
greater glory of the Caribbean.
There is no cheap way of
honoring principle. If Britain
maintains free Commonwealth
immigration, the price will be
an ever-increasing proportion
of colored people in our midst.
“To pretend that there is
some God-given rule which
compels the people of these
favored islands to accept this
development without question is
doctrinaire cant. Our right to
control immigration in any way
that seems wise and right is
unchallengeable. If an influx
of colored people seems likely
to lead to social tension, or to
dissolve the cohesion of British
society, or in any other way to
damage the welfare of the State,
then it is the Government's
duty to prevent it.
“The problem, therefore,
must be judged strictly on its
merits. What are they? They
can be summarised under the
one general heading: advan-
tages to be gained by main-
taining Britain as the head of a
multi - racial Commonwealth.
So far as the colored peoples
are concerned the Common-
wealth exists only in so far as
it helps to bring them in touch
with modern industrial civilisa-
tion.
“The fact must be faced that
if free immigration is rejected
the colored peoples’ interest in
the Commonwealth will be
profoundly shaken. - We hood-
wink ourselves if we suppose
that West Indians would
remain loyal to Britain if they
were told that only a tiny
minority could ever hope to be
welcomed in our midst, or that
their ways were so foreign and
antipathetic that they could
never hope to be absorbed with
out violence and friction. Such
an admission would contradict
'the basic assumptions from


G.S.R. Go.’s half-yearly report
Points from General Manager's report to shareholders
Dr. J. Vernon, general manager of the
Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited,
recently reported satisfactory production
and sales in most fields of the company's
activities.
In his half-yearly report to
the C.S.R. Company’s 14,250
shareholders Dr. Vernon made
the following points:
Raw sugar production
at C.S.R.'s Australian
mills
The Company’s seven Austra-
lian mills are expected to pro-
duce about 300,000 ton’s of
raw sugar in the 1958 season,
about 1 25,000 tons more than the
previous highest figure, attained
in 195 7. (C.S.R. owns 7 of the
34 raw sugar mills in Aus-
tralia.)
Seasonal conditions in nearly
all C.S.R. sugar areas in Aus-
tralia have so far been satisfac-
tory and another good crop is
likely in 1959, assuming
weather conditions are normal
over the next six months.
Fiji raw sugar
production
From the current season’s
operations the five C.S.R. mills
in Fiji are estimated to produce
193,000 tons of raw sugar,
about 3,000 tons less than the
previous season’s production.
Refined sugar in
Australia
Sales of sugars and syrups
from our five Australian re-
fineries for the year ended 30th
September, 1958, amounted to
510,000 tons, compared with
495,000 tons in the previous
year and 493,000 tons in 1956.
New Zealand
Sales of refined products
from our Auckland refinery
for the year ended 30th Sep-
A road tanker discharging bulk granulated sugar. The sugar is
discharged from the tanker, to a hopper and carried by spiral
conveyor to the manufacturer’s store.
tember 1958, were 105,900
tons, an increase! of 3,400 tons
over the previous year.
Bulk handling of raw
sugar in Australia
Du ring the present crushing
season bulk sugar loading ter-
minals at Lucinda Point and at
New Bundaberg have com-
menced operation. ' Construc-
tion of the bulk terminal at
Townsville is well advanced,
while a further loading terminal
at Mourilyan Harbour has just
been commenced. The Com-
pany acts as associate engineer-
ing consultant for the design
and installation of the mechani-
cal and electrical equipment
and it co-ordinates arrange-
ments for the construction of
these bulk loading terminals.
Since 1955 bulk raw sugar
has been discharged at our Mel-
bourne refinery by ships’ gear.
It has been decided to build a
new wharf and to install shore-
based cranes and conveyor
equipment for the rapid dis-
charge of ships on the same
general lines as at Sydney. Con-
struction is expected to be com-
pleted during 1960.
At our smaller refineries in
Adelaide and Perth we are in-
stalling bulk sugar equipment
to receive and store raw sugar
unloaded by ship’s gear.
Building materials
Sales of C.S.R. building
materials have increased mode-
rately during the last six months
in the face of strong competi-
tion in all lines. Building
activity in Australia has been at
a steady level overall with a
trend to an increase in home
building and some slackening
in commercial building.
Lay-it-yourself Vinylflex floor
and wall tiles were recently in-
troduced to the market and
have had a very pleasing re-
ception. A number of the large
retail stores in each of the
capital cities are distributing
this new line.
Gyprock plasterboard is
steadily gaining wider accept-
ance as a high quality interior
lining for walls and ceilings of
homes and offices.
New blue asbestos milling
plant has been brought into
production at Wittenoom in
Western Australia, increasing
the capacity to 20,000 tons of
asbestos fibre per.annum.
C.S.R. Chemicals
Pty. Ltd.
(60% C.S.R.)
Production and sales of
“Starex 475,” a toughened poly-
styrene, are proceeding satis-
factorily.
The production of vinyl ace-
tate was successfully started
early in August and demand
has been high.
Prepackaged sugar
In August we began selling
refined sugar in slb. retail
packages to the grocery
trade. The package (illustrated
above) has received favourable
comment as regards both its
appearance and strength. At
present the pre-packed sugar is
being sold only in the Sydney
market but similar packages will
follow later from our other re-
fineries. It is also proposed to
market a 21b. package in order
to provide a better coverage of
package sizes for the grocery
trade.
Bulk refined sugar in
liquid and granulated
form
The usage of liquid sugar
in Australia is increasing and
for the year ended 30th Sep-
tember, 1958, nearly three
times as much was sold as in
the previous year; liquid sugar
now represents about 7 % of
total refined products sold.
The Company has decided to
market bulk refined sugar. De-
liveries have commenced in
Sydney and plant for the Mel-
bourne refinery is being
planned.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
C lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
which the multi-racial Com-
monwealth is supposed to draw
its strength. The argument
about immigration, therefore,
poses a fundamental question :
Is the concept of Common-
wealth worth the price which
we must pay to give it reality?
“The pamphlet ‘Color in
Britain,’ published by the
Institute of Race Relations,
should help us to answer this
question. Its broad conclusions
as to the extent of racial hos-
tility are encouraging. Without
minimising the particular diffi-
culties of housing, unemploy-
ment and sexual jealousy, it
shows that the process of inte-
gration is continuing steadily.
Nothing in the report would
suggest that free immigration
on the present scale raises such
acute domestic problems at
home that we should risk
imperilling our Common-
wealth policy abroad. This is
not to say that immigration can
be painless ; but growing-pains
are the mark of a dynamic
body-politic.”
World Population
Three years ago U.S. statis-
ticians estimated that the popu-
lation of the U.S.A. would
touch 175-million by 1960.
Now, two years before the due
date, the U.S. Department of
Commerce notes that the popu-
lation has already reached that
figure.
“To be able to miscalculate
by two years in the space of
five,” comments New York
“Herald Tribune,” “is an
example of the baffling run J
away nature of the population-
increase” :
“What is true of this country
[the U.S.] is true of the world.
It took 50 centuries for man to
reach the IOOC-million mark.
That was in 1830. But it only
took one more for the race to
reach 2000-million. The third
billion [lOOO - million], now
expected in 1965, will have
taken only 35 years. By 2558,
if the present rate is maintained,
each person will have only
a little over a square-yard to
himself on the globe, and that
includes Antarctica, deserts and
mountain-tops.
“In the 1990’5, which are not
so far off, there will be 300-
million Americans. The needs
will be immense—-more schools
and colleges, more roads, more
h o u.s es, more recreational
facilities, to name the most
obvious, and we haven't got
enough of them even now.
Proportionately, as well as
numerically, there will be a
much bigger group of old
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune”
NEW BROOM.
people, who will make all kinds
of specialised demands on
society. There will also be
many more young people,
despite any cycles of birth
‘recession.’
“A preponderance of very
old and very young will have
to be supported by the pro-
ductivity of a work-force
shrinking proportionately,
unless automation can do a
good part of the job.
“This population explosion
is world-wide. In China, India
and other lands where millions
of infants used to die from
infectious diseases, the modern
‘wonder drugs’ enable them to
grow-up, while lengthening the
life-span of the old. China
alone is adding 13-miilion
people a year.
“Does this mean that
Malthus was right, after all, and
that the world will starve itself
tO'death from overpopulation?
Always in the past new inven-
tions have come along to
enable more people to live on
less land, and for less land to
produce far more food (witness
the enormous increase in the
productivity of United States
farms). Doubtless still others,
as yet unguessed at, will come ;
perhaps the deserts can be made
green again by atomic-powered
irrigation.
“Nevertheless, the population
explosion is now moving into
the first rank of the -world’s
future problems.”
Communist Decline
Scenting a decline in the
strength of Communism in
Europe, two U.S. commen-
tators (C. L. Sulzberger in
the “New York Times,” and
Roscoe Drummond in N.Y.
“Herald Tribune”) each come
to a roughly common conclu-
sion from different evidence.
In “N.Y. Times,” Sulzberger
points out that “after thirteen
years of massive and threaten-
ing power, the great Marxist
parties of France and Italy
have started perceptibly to
decline. Democratic Socialism
and other liberal forces are
beginning to chip-off the
fellow-travelling vote so long
magnetised by the appeal oi
Moscow’s propaganda.
“In Italy, which still
possesses the largest Commu-
nist party outside the Sino-
Soviet bloc, municipal elec-
tions have just confirmed this
trend. And in France, where
de Gaulle’s rising star domi-
nates the political firmament.
Communism suffered a crush-
ing defeat in the recent refer-
endum.
“These are not isolated in-
stances. And they represent
significant indications that the
mystique of Soviet appeal to
discontented sectors of the
Continent’s population has
now commenced to wane.”
Drummond’s suggestion is
based on the fact that “Com-
munism today is being sub-
jected to the most powerful
criticism it has experienced in
many years,” this criticism
coming from “three widely
divergent sources with not a
capitalist among them”:
“Here is the judgment of
former Communist Djilas
from his book, The New Class,
which had to be smuggled out
of Yugoslavia in order to be
published in New York. He
describes the new class of
Communist dictators as the
worst exploiters of the people
the world has ever known and
concludes: ‘This is a class
whose power over men is the
most complete known in his-
tory. .. .When . the new class
leaves the historical scene —-
and this must happen —there
will be less sorrow over its
passing than there has been for
any class before it. Smothering
everything except what suited
its ego, it has condemned itself
to failure and shameful ruin.’
“Here is the judgment of
Premier Nehru, from a letter
circulated confidentially to
friends a few months ago and
since made public:
“ ‘There is much talk in
Communism of the contradic-
tions of capitalist society, and
there is truth in that analysis.
But we see the growing con-
tradictions within the rigid


Public Notice
IF OLIVE ELIZABETH STEVENS (or
WILLIAMS'), sister of MARY ANN
STEVENS, whose hist known address is
believed to have been 4a, Ellen Street,
Fremantle, Western Australia, or any
lawful child dr grandchild of the said
Olive Elizabeth Stevens (or Williams),
will communicate with MESSRS.
DARBYSHIRE GILLETT k HUELIN,
Solicitors, of 42 St. George’s Terrace,
I’erth, Western Australia, she or they
will hear something to advantage.
This is where YOU come
into the picture of
AUSTRALIA to-day
SHEBm
is more secure when the country is pros-
perous—and under the Menzies Government
it is enjoying record prosperity and industrial
peace.
YOUR HIGHER WAGES
can buy more when the country
is more productive—and under
Tiie Menzies Government production has reached
an all-time high.
YOUR STANDARD of LIVIN
rises when financial
policies are designed to
keep the economy stable —and that is the purpose
and the result of the Menzies Government's
policy.
rHE INDIVIDUAL AUSTRALIAN IS BUYING MORE THAN
HE EVER DID AND ENJOYS ONE OF THE HIGHEST LIVING
STANDARDS IN THE WORLD.
VOTE
ON
NOV.
22
|T] McMULLIN
and for the Senate:
H] ANDERSON
0 McKEILAR
and place a number in every square
Authorised by J. L, CARRICK, Liberal Party of Australia.
LP.16.18
—London “Daily Mail”
THE BURNING OF THE BOOKS.
framework of Communism it-
self. Its suppression of indi-
vidual freedom brings about
powerful reactions. Its con-
tempt for what might be
called the moral and spiritual
side of life not only ignores
something that is basic in man,
but also deprives human be-
havior of standards and values.
Its unfortunate association
with violence encourages a
certain evil tendency in human-
beings.’ ”
Finally, Drummond notes
there is the judgment of Boris
Pasternak, “the greatest living
Russian literary figure,” who,
in his Dr. Zhivago, has a
character remark:
“Marxism a science? Well,
it’s taking a risk, to say the
least, to argue about that with
a man one hardly knows. Fiow-
ever —Marxism is too uncer-
tain of its ground to be a
science ... I don’t know a
movement more self-centred
and further removed from the
facts than Marxism . . . and
as for the men in power, they
are so anxious to establish the
myth of their infallibility that
they do their utmost to ignore
truth ... I don't like people
who don't care about the
truth.”
Various Voices
Lord Mancroft: “The crea-
tion of a Free Trade area [in
Europe] will give British indus-
try access to a single market
of at least 250,000 consumers.
This opens-up a field of vast
opportunity. Of course there
are risks as well. But I think
that some of the anxiety is
based on the assumption that
we have the choice of staying
as we are or staking our pros-
perity in a great gamble in
Europe. This is not so. In
fact, whatever happens we just
cannot avoid major and some-
times painful readjustments to
what is now happening in
Europe. No amount of pro-
tection on the home market
can ensure the survival of
British industry if we cannot
compete overseas.”
* * *
General Twining (chairman,
U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff ):
“The Soviets outnumber us
[the U.S.] in divisions and sub-
marines. They are probably
ahead of us in the development
—and I stress the word develop-
ment —of long-range missiles.
But relative military strength
does not depend on numbers
alone or on developmental pro-
gress. Considering our superior
strategic retaliatory power, our
flexible and mobile tactical
power, our industrial prowess
and our economic strength, I
say in full confidence that we
are militarily superior over-all
to the Soviet Union today. I
see no reason why, with con-
centrated effort and good
judgment, we should not be
superior in the ninteen-sixtics
as well.”
* * *
Mr. Dulles : “There has been
nothing whatever to suggest
that you could strike a bargain
with the Communists in terms
of these islands [Quemoy and
Matsu], They are gunning for
something far bigger than that.
They want to drive the United
States from the Western
Pacific.”
* * *
General de Gaulle: “To
pacify Algeria, to act in such
a way that it is forever body
and soul with France—that,
Frenchwomen and Frenchmen,
is what we must do first of
all.”




Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Cattles Jurisdiction.
TO GEORGE LEONARD GROUTAGE
late of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
JOAN GROUTAGE has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3477 of 1958 on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 28th day of January 1959 and obtain
a copv of the Petition without charge
from CHARLES GRIFFITHS. Solicitor.
107-109 Elizabeth Street, Svdnev, New
South Wales.—J. DOUGIIAN, Registrar.
through the Dardanelles after
the war, closed-up as she slowly
steamed past Gallipoli, and
gave three cheers for the
Diggers; and such as the
surrender of the German war-
ships at Constantinople.
Others were comic, like the
kindness, of the British Consul
at Bangkok, who sent the crew
a barrel of oysters one day.
They made everybody who ate
them sick, so to make amends
he sent off some local vegetables
the day after. They made
everybody even more sick.
Also there was the sailor who
disturbed the solemnity of the
German admiral’s surrender by
souveniring the ensign from
his barge. And there are just
memories the men of the
crew.; the incredible discomfort
of life aboard ; years in the
tropics ; the dismal little Italian
seaport towns; the utter
misery of a Russian winter . . .
they all come back when you
see the old hulk.
A fter she was paid-off, the
Parramatta languished in
reserve for some years, until
early in the 1930’s she was
turned over to the N.S.W.
Government for conversion
into floating barracks. With
her sister-ship Yarra she was
to have housed workers con-
structing scenic roadways
around Broken Bay. Some-
how the scheme became a hot
political issue; the unions
claimed the ships would be-
come convict-hulks or floating
forced-labor camps, or some-
thing ; and while the fight was
raging, the two ships some-
how got adrift from their
moorings one night.
The flood-tide carried them
swiftly and silently up the
Hawkesbury River. The Yarra
smashed against a pier of the
old railway-bridge, and sank
almost immediately. The Parra-
matta drifted further up the
river, until at last an eddy
carried her into a little cove
at the foot of the mountain ;
and there she struck. She is
there to this day.
Australians are great people
for putting up statues and
monuments and brass-plates to
commemorate things and
people, some of them better
forgotten, possibly. Perhaps
one of these days they might
get around to putting some-
thing on that mouldering, rust-
ing old hulk on the river-bank
to remind people of what she
once was.
THE INVASION
OF CANBERRA
By SHIRLEY M. STOTT
A party of 12 women has
just visited Canberra.
Some were very youth-
ful, married women ;
some not so youthful. They
were escorted around the capi-
tal city as any other tourists
—with several important differ-
ences.
These women were armed
with tape-measures and note-
pads. The cameras they carried
had a definite utilitarian pur-
pose. For two days these
women measured windows and
doorways in uncompleted Gov-
ernment cottages, sampled the
quality of milk served in the
Government pre-school centres,
debated on whether the cost-
of-living in Canberra was
higher than in other capital
cities, and looked at maps
showing the future develop-
ment of the Federal city with
only slightly jaundiced eyes.
Around them all the time
buzzed a few fast-talking and
charming public servants
whose job it was to “sell” Can-
berra to these women as a city
to live in. The p.s.’s were
genuinely helpful, and the
women genuinely impressed—
to a point.
1 he women were actually a
reconnaissance-party for the
wives of 1200 Defence Services
personnel moving to Canberra
with their families next year.
For Canberra this means 5000
new people—an increase of
one-in-10 of its existing popu-
lation. For the Defence people
it means the biggest upheaval
of their lives, some serious
heartburnings and much
anxiety.
Asa woman myself I would
have said the Government
was really taking a big chance
by bringing up the scrutineers.
It was a good idea, surely, to
show the 12 what to expect
from their future home city,
but these steely-eyed women
were not ready to be fooled.
They examined every inch
of every cottage they were
shown. They made sure there
was room in the kitchens for
their refrigerators, that the
heating-systems worked, that
the soil would grow vegetables,
that the kids would not have
too far to travel to school.
They looked through shops
and asked searching questions
of the buyers about warm
underwear and school-
uniforms. They cross-examined
butchers and greengrocers.
They scrutinised very carefully
the calendar of the Canberra
University College. They
missed-out on very little indeed.
They are now ready to pro-
nounce on every subject likely
to be raised at a meeting of all
the wives to be held shortly in
Melbourne. How favorable are
these pronouncements to be?
I got a fair idea when I inter-
viewed them at the airport
before they boarded their plane
for home. They were still
making notes, some of them, as
they sat in the airline’s waiting-
room.
The most controversial topic
you would think would be
their future accommodation. It
is a handsome bouquet to the
Government that it was not.
On the whole, the women were
satisfied with the homes they
had seen (representative of the
ones they will live in), although
some of them were dubious
about the concrete dwellings.
The topic which they were
really keen to pursue, and from
the light in their eyes I would
say they will pursue very deter-
minedly, was the Canberra
University College. Typical
mothers, as most of them were,
they saw in the limited number
of courses available at this
establishment the likelihood
that their sons and daughters
would have to leave the
parental nest to study science
and medical courses in other
capital cities. Their concern
with tertiary education—with
all education —was a very
heartening sign to many people
in Canberra.
JVTxt to this highminded
subject they were anxious
to discuss the high price of
cauliflowers and the scarcity of
woollen underwear for
children. They were delighted
with the schools, the pre-
school centres, the mountains
and the brilliant spring colors
they saw all around them in
Canberra. The possibility of
going to cocktail-parties with
the select Canberra “few” was
also dawning on some of
them.
One thing, happily for them,
they did not see, and that was
the resentment being cherished
within the breasts of several
hundred minor public servants
whose own advent in Canberra
had attracted no notice whatso-
ever, least of all from the Gov-
ernment p.r.o.’s.
T Tntil now these humble
souls had counted them-
selves very lucky to have come
by any sort of flat if they
were married, and by any sort
or a hostel if they were single.
Now they are beginning to
have hard thoughts about the
latest additions to the family
of public servants in this city.
Never having flattered them-
selves that they were secure in
the Government’s affections,
they can hardly feel superseded.
Nevertheless, the emotion they
are undoubtedly experiencing
is strong enough and bitter
enough for everyone in Can-
berra to be aware of it.
The little party of 12 was
blissfully protected from ex-
pressions of public - servant
jealousy and have reserved
any pity they feel strictly for
themselves at having to leave
friends, relatives and comfy
middle-class homes in Mel-
bourne.
They will be indeed the
spoon-fed public servants of
this city. They themselves
admit that the Government is
behaving jolly decently towards
them in the circumstances, and
the Government has so far
spared no expense to make
them think so.
The point is, though, that
the Government has to some
extent —just how great an
extent we cannot know yet —
alienated the affections of
many Canberra people to
whom, at the moment, the
phrase “Defence personnel”
‘means just “frozen homes.”


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world-ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Staggered Hours
Lengthy discussion by
interested Victorian organisa-
tions on staggered working-
hours having proved fruitless —
the Minister for Transport (Sir
Arthur Warner) said that
everyone favors staggered
hours for someone else —the
Victorian Government pro-
poses to legislate on the sub-
ject. It’s expected that a bill
will be introduced early next
year.
No one viewing the trans-
port problem will quarrel with
the Government’s decision.
Public and private transport
have become hopelessly con-
gested in the Melbourne
metropolitan area at peak-
hours, and the situation will
steadily deteriorate with the
rising population unless some-
thing is done. The alternative
to staggering working-hours is
to provide more roads, bridges,
railways, buses and trams, at
enormous cost to the taxpayer.
Much of that expense can be
avoided by a sensible rearrange-
ment of starting- and finishing-
times, particularly for shop-
assistants.
General recognition of the
urgent need for staggered hours
would help the Government
immensely in its task. Possibly
the full facts have not been
made known widely enough ;
if so, it seems up to the Gov-
ernment to tell the public
frankly just what the transport
authorities are up against, how
staggering hours will help, and
what the costs will be if its
proposals are not imple-
mented.—Ardoyne (Vic.).
Council Managers
Long experience of local-
government has convinced me
that it would be for the good
of the community generally if
shires and municipalities were
“you kids Watch out for the signals when I go into orbit."
run by competent managers
instead of by aldermen and
councillors.
The theory of government
by elected representatives is
attractive, but what has it
given us in practice? Most
local-governing areas in N.S.W.
are chronically short of money
for necessary works ; rates are
just about as high as any
community can afford, and
costs are still rising. There
appears to be no prospect of
getting the necessary funds to
set roads and streets in order
and extend water, sewerage and
electricity other than by
increased rating unless the
Department of Local Govern-
ment abandons its opposition
to councils entering the fields
of hire-purchase and fire-
insurance, which would yield
a considerable annual revenue
if properly managed.
It is doubtful, however, if
many councils could manage
such enterprises efficiently.
That is why, for, say, five years,
a number of local-governing
areas at present in financial
difficulties should be managed
by competent businessmen
instead of by aldermen and
councillors. These managers
should be given authority to
raise money by hire-purchase
and fire-insurance in addition
to the levying of rates. At the
end of the five-year period the
results could be compared with
those in areas still managed by
councils, and future policy be
decided accordingly.
Theoretically, the election of
aldermen to represent various
parts of local-governing areas
should ensure fair treatment
all round, but in actual practice
some parts of a municipality
tend to get better than a fair
deal, while others are starved of
necessary expenditure. The
amalgamation of local-govern-
ing areas, which is going on all
the time, aggravates rather
than minimises this tendency.
Most councils today are in
the hands of their officers, who
may be highly efficient in their
particular jobs but who have
had little business training and
tend to follow the line of least
resistance when they come up
against council policy—which
is often dictated by a minority
of the more dominating mem-
bers. A manager, on the other
hand, if he were really worth
his salt, would make it his busi-
ness to learn at first hand the
needs of every portion of his
area and see that each received
a fair share of expenditure
according to its needs.
I am not questioning the
honesty of aldermen and
councillors, but their experience
and competence. It is really
expecting too much of 12 or 15
men who meet only every two
or three weeks to run fairly and
efficiently an area which often
extends over hundreds of
square-miles and poses all kinds
of rural, residential and indus-
trial problems. Peter
Simple (N.S.W.).
Smoking and Cancer
Except in Melbourne, there
has been little newspaper
publicity for the forthright
statement by Dr. Kaye Scott,
senior consultant at the Peter
McCallum clinic, and just back
from attending the inter-
national cancer congress.
Scott said medical opinion was
now confirming the causative
part played by tobacco in
lung-cancer (which was “not
one of the pleasant ways of
dying”), and advocated either
a system of licensing of
smoking, which he admitted
would be unworkable, or the
imposition of excise-duties so
high that the cost of smoking
would be too high for young
people.
He agreed that the latter idea
would produce considerable
reaction from public and
vested interests, but against
this should be set the tremem
dous cost to the State of
thousands of people dying of
cancer which could have been
avoided. Those now smoking
could perhaps not be stopped,
but something should be done
to prevent adolescents from
contracting the habit.
Canberra’s reaction was,
naturally, partly political. No
Government is going out of
its way to become unpopular
with those who smoke, or even
to face the loss of revenue
which would follow the im-
position of near - prohibitive
excise-taxes on tobacco and


CHATEAU TANUNDA
Stories of the Coastal Lights No. 24
iMPSp
mmmm*
•" '-
H.
i
Rottnest Island
The first lighthouse in Western Australia was estab-
lished in 1842, thirteen years after the colony was founded.
Built by convict labour (a plaque describes them as "native
prisoners”) on Rottnest Island, about 10 miles from the port
of Fremantle, its white stonework was not completed until
1851 when a Notice to Mariners reported that it was 64 ft.
high and that the revolving light could be seen 21 miles in
clear weather. In 1881, another report said that the clarity
and range of the light had been improved.
This tower remained in use until the 1890’s, when a
site at a slightly higher level was surveyed. The new
lighthouse, which was opened in 1896, was 110 ft. high and
built of grey masonry. The range of visibility was 23 miles.
This light is 264 ft. above high water, compared with its
predecessor's 197 ft. The basement of the old tower is now
used as an oil store.
The new lighthouse was extremely solidly built. The
walls of the basement were 6 ft. thick and there were 1,000
cubic yards of pure hard limestone —obtained from a quarry
11 miles away—in the superstructure.
The strength of the original light in the tower was
200,000 candlepower. This was raised in 1927 to 330,000
candlepower. Two years later, a new mercury float type of
pedestal and clockwork revolving mechanism to support and
rotate the lens was installed and in 1936 the light was con-
verted to electric operation, raising the strength to 3,000,000
candlepower, which makes it the most powerful light
on the Australian coast. One lightkeepcr is stationed here.
ROTTNEST ISLAND was named by a Dutch Mariner
Vlamingh who, on landing on the island, found what he
thought was a nest of rats. Actually they were small wallabies.
The position of the Rottnest Island light is latitude
32' 00’ south, longitude 115" 30' east.
You can have confidence in the quality
of this pure grape brandy
CHATEAU TANUNDA
offie erf
N.S.W. Agents
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 120 years
CL24.82
"Wall, no, I don't agree they are a frightful lot of junk.
I happen to be the artist who painted them."
cigarettes. It is agreed also
that smoking is not the only
cause of lung-cancer, although
a major one.
Little of this is new, but it
is still thought-provoking. The
really alarming thing is that
the volume of smoking is in-
creasing, because people appa-
rently enjoy the element of
bravado, of defying what
seems a rather vague risk after
all. Tobacco companies’ profits
continue to increase ; there are
veiled (and vague) sug-
gestions that “filter tips" offer
protection ; and there are
statements about the un-
doubtedly harmful effects of
s mog and of petrol and diesel
fumes. The only real impact
will come when youngsters are
convinced that smoking is
stupid. —Well-cured (N.S.W.).
The Church
Taking inventory of modern
society, the Church is a difficult
item to place. Centuries ago
fallen from the role of virtual
government, it receded into a
symbolism of the ultimate
Power of the moral word, and
, ei ? *? s f most of that power
S ' ncreas * n g disunity.
though nothing could be
at > OC^S w *fh the realities
'vhich the Church is supposed
pL P r ?P°. u nd, the partition of
a . ris n nit y into Catholicism
fraom r ® te . stant ism, and the
inio ? ntatlon . pf Protestantism
hair-splitting theological
camps, has slowly germinated
to the point where Churches
enter into veiled competition
for ideological honors. The
laity is to some extent aware
that today s world is not in-
diligent to odd twists of mental
preference and, vaguely, is sure
that the Church should put its
house in order, and so give
conviction to its plea that
government of the individual
by God is the only unifying
force in life,
The ordinary man suspects
that the clergy is a body of
inadequate men. He has
before him the example of the
trade-union movement, which
well knows and has proved
what “solidarity" can achieve,
Much worse, there is some
trading in the modern-world
notion that all things must
compete for attention and
patronage, and that the Church
cannot make out a case for
special exemption. in its
awareness of that embryo-
attitude, the Church has be-
come like an ungainly moth,
fluttering around the fatal
flame nf “nrewnre frmlmism ”
•? P'essure- & iodpism
publicity-conscious and search-
ing for a translation to the
modern idiom
, ‘ .... .
Thrown unwillingly into a
contest Wlth the agnostic inter-
P retation of Communism, and
w,th extincti on as the possible
£ enalt y for fai !j? the
has not unified itself to
strengthen its defence ; it has
ado P ted the negative tactic of
weakening the enemy. If a
rich man has no more chance
of getting to Heaven than has
a camel of passing through the
eye of a needle, then Com-
munism is a better church-mate
than Capitalism.
Though science has no
loyalties to bestow, it has be-
come the basic enemy of the
Church. In times past, it was
harmless enough merely an
academic gymnasium for the
initiated few but translated
into a technology which
touches all lives for better and
worse, the ranks of its neo-
phytes grow and shadow-in a
secular doctrine that if
science does not have the
answer there is no answer
worth the listening. But the
Church must tread warily to
combat this slow drift to empti-
ness of soul, because its own
history unfortunately includes
the persecution of scientific
thinkers.
The role of paternal adviser
is slipping from the Church
into the hands of the psychia-
trists. Easy, “off-the-hook”
generalities are denied to them ;
like bankers or any other


traders, they deal with the indi-
vidual, and tailor to measure.
Even their ready-cut garments
for the general styling of
society have an unpoetic
soundness of tone which falls
less discordantly on the dis-
illusioned ear than do the
clergy’s offerings which are
more like a constant play-back
of an ethereal tape-recording.
Psychiatrists may not go as far
as ' Lenin (“Religion is the
opium of the people”), but the
down-to-earth stamp of their
merchandise “Fear is nor-
mal,” “Moderate stress and
worry is beneficial,” etc. —•
would have the human-being
as a living organism, not half-
doped by the theory that all
suffering has purpose and all
injustice is put right in the end.
—Acolyte (N.S.W.).
Beautify our Cities
Post-war building has made
immense strides towards over-
coming the shortage of office-
accommodation, but little
thought appears to have been
given to the ultimate appear-
ance of our cities, to public
amenities and the need for
“breathing-space.”
Melbourne has probably
fared worse than other cities,
because of the urgent need to
keep pace with the demands of
a rapidly increasing metropoli-
tan population, and the vigor
with which building projects
have been undertaken. It is
heartening, then, to find that
its City Development Associa-
tion has decided to form a
special committee to prepare
plans for beautifying the corn-
mercial heart of Melbourne,
Consisting of leading archi-
tects, town-planners and gar-
dening-experts, the committee
is to consider such matters as
sculpture and trees for city
streets, pedestrian plazas,
miniature “civic centres,” and
riverfront beautification. Its
aim, as announced, is “to make
the city more attractive and to
preserve open space as the city’s
most precious asset.”
Commendable objectives,
with which few will quarrel;
the only regret is that this sort
of thing was not kept in the
forefront of planning when the
city’s post-war building-boom
began. Melbourne lacks open
spaces in its central, commer-
cial area. Many old buildings
have been demolished, but the
sites they occupied have been
or are being built over ; not a
single site has been set aside for
public use of any description.
And although Melbourne has
no city square—no open area
in which citizens may go in
leisure hours or where public
ceremonies may be conducted —-
no attempt has been made to
provide one. Talk of using the
“So, Wakefield, late again.”
Eastern Market site for this
purpose has only been talk ; the
obsolete, useless market build-
ing seems doomed to be
replaced by a luxury hotel,
though why land owned by the
city should be made available
to commercial enterprise for
such a purpose baffles the
ordinary citizen.
Beautifying Melbourne, or
any other city, demands more
than hopeful resolutions and
ambitious planning by citizens’
committees. It needs the back-
ing of overwhelming public
support, together with a sin-
cere determination on the part
of municipal authorities to see
that the city is not over-com-
mercialised. — Doynest (Vic.).
School Uniforms
“P.0.M.C.” is off the beam
in some of his remarks about
school-uniforms (B. 5/11/’5B).
In the Middle Ages uniforms
were not confined to children
“from poor homes or houses of
correction.” My old school,
St. Mary-in-the-Castle, Hast-
ings, clothed its pupils in the
reign of Henry II in a chemise-
like garment tied around the
waist with cord —not unlike
Dior’s latest model. A picture
of a child so clad may be seen
in the volume of the history of
the school, We Never Were a
Charity School .
Christ’s Hospital uniform,
worn to this day, was never the
garment of children from “poor
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 513
Across
I—Wrestler may try to apply this surgical instrument? (4, 8)
8 — Toothpaste to make an impression if going against the
grain. (10)
9 Boast the dress is taken back. (4)
12— Mr. Geese, out of place, comes forth. (7)
13 — Emu aria affected by a blood disorder. (7)
14 — Result spoilt by the camp-follower. (6)
16 — Top vowels are topping. (5)
19 —Redskin’s shelter has much in
common with 16-across. (5)
21 —Brigitte suggests where to have
a spot—and another spot. (6)
25 — Submit to the performance on
one horseshoe taken by North
Dakota, therefore. (7)
26 — South Australia to bring butcher-
ing with the sword. (7)
28 —Article of her Greek goddess. (4)
30 — Thirsty Spaniards may consume
this mother dominion with an
off-color article. (10)
31 — Polynesian kitchen-hand of whom
I speak uncharitably. (4, 8)
Down
1 — Hectored insignia blushing. (8)
2 Four legs set to each of these
Bradman openers. (7)
3 Sing about you going to court. (5)
4 Sudden incursions like Baby
Moses. (8)
5 Pouch to queer one of the back-
bones. (6)
6 Blubber. (3)
7 What Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
was topped-off with his mono-
gram type of 19-across. (6)
10 — What grows wool that is
fibre. (5)
11 — Harry the Oxford English Dic-
tionary with a nimbus. (6)
15 —Tea inheritors belonging to
them. (6)
17— —A cricket team’s outfitter would
need to know these upsets. (8)
18 — A highbrow to have a hankering
over locks. (4-4)
20—Kick the bucket all over again
when rising down from it. (5)
22 — Trebled excursion was in the
van. (7)
23 Secret haunts of the pith-
helmet. .(3-3)
24 European deficiency of post-
offices. (6)
27 —Beaut snake encircling New
Zealand. (5)
29 —Curve responsible for the car
smash. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 512.


O 0 ° 0 o
Q
r
©
DONT LET YOUR
OVERSEAS
REPRESENTATIVE
PINE TOR HOME
SEND HIM A SUBSCRIPTION TO
“THE BULLETIN”
AS A CHRISTMAS-GIFT FROM THE FIRM
Every other day alert-looking men call at "The Bulletin”
office and repeat a familiar phrase "I’m going overseas
for a period but I MUST KEEP IN TOUCH send me
‘The Bully’ every week.” Reasonable? Very. There is
no better way; in fact, there is no other way.
Not only does the Australian overseas ’receiving
"The Bulletin” keep in touch with national affairs, but
he breathes the wide open spaces and feels the sunshine
every time he opens an issue. Every overseas business
representative deserves this privilege. He can’t come to
Australia, so send Australia to him. He’ll appreciate it
more than that bonus!
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
ELSEWHERE
IN THIS ISSUE
&
<
K
'fojlte*
iff
7
homes or houses of correction.”
The school was always confined
to those of gentle birth, most
of whom were in reduced cir-
cumstances. This is so today,
and Christ’s is the only truly
democratic Great Public School
in the world as far as I know,
because the fees the parents pay
are assessed on their incomes
as shown in their income-tax
forms.
In the Christ’s Hospital
Girls’ School annals a minute
of the court dated December
5, 1579, lays it down that the
girls are not to be taught
spinning, “for that is a profes-
sion of the poorer sorte.”
It is interesting to observe
that the drab uniform garments
which were worn half-a-century
ago by the children at the
Girls’ Home, Launceston
(Tas.), have been replaced by
school-uniforms appropriate to
their schools and by bright,
becoming frocks worn out of
school-hours. They therefore
cannot be distinguished in the
street fropa other children.
It was only in Victorian
times that the flat straw hat
with elastic, the most con-
spicuous feature of the Harrow
boys’ uniform, was adopted.
Yet John Lyon founded his
school in the reign of Elizabeth
1 to be a school for 13 poor
boys, as may be seen by the
wording on his brass in
Harrow-on-the-Hill Church. —
Old Girl (N.S.W.).
Wool-slump
Most of Australia’s older
graziers are confident that they
will get through the current
slump in wool-values in much
the same way as they have
survived more serious crises.
Younger men are not so sure.
They admit that the old-timers
battled on wonderfully during
the depression and even during
the war, when, although
necessary, fixed prices were not
wonderful compensation for
shortages of labor and materials
as well as other current worries.
But many of the younger
generation point out that high-
pressured synthetics were not a
major threat to their fore-
bears. Nobody seriously
queries wool’s superiority over
man-made substitutes, but there
are some doubts whether the
natural qualities of the natural
fibre can compete without some
man-made help on a market
where salesmanship counts for
so much these days.
There is a growing feeling
among graziers who contribute
by levy to the research and pro-
motion fund that, although
their leaders are unsurpassed at
growing wool, they need more
help from the commercial world
in selling it. The cotton
industry has awakened to this
position successfully after be-
ing in really serious trouble.
Wool-men can do the same
when they realise the situation
—especially in selling their
wares to the retailers as well as
to schoolchildren with their
project books. Kitchen
(Vic.). •
Legal Lingo
French and English histories,
at any rate, leave no doubt at
all that, originally, legal docu-
ments were composed and
written in legal jargon delibera-
tely to deceive and/or confuse
the ignorant layman. Even
some professorial opinion
admits as much to the inquiring
student.
In short, these legal snares
and feints were of feudal
origin and are, in the main, the
very antithesis of democracy.
I heartily agree with “Kerba”
(B. 29/10/’5B) that traditional
legal phraseology badly needs
cleansing of many antiquated
terms and meanings—that the
law itself should demand that
the law be interpreted in “con-
cise, explicit and indisputable”
contemporary language.
Also, the long catalogue of
virtually dead Latin expres-
sions as habitually used in law
should be replaced with
straightforward English equiva-
lents at all times and in
all jurisdictions. P.O.M.C.
(N.S.W.).
Waiting for Doctors
Admittedly, as “Me Mi Ca”
says (B. 29/10/’5B), doctors
can’t gauge in advance exactly
how long the examination of
each patient in the appointment-
book will take, or what emer-
gencies will interrupt the con-
sultations. But a few years’
experience will provide a fair
guide to the average time —
and the medico should not lean
so comfortably on a certificate
explaining the loss of time to
the boss.
Even in these days there are
still a good many people who
(like doctors) are self-employed,
and even if the amount they
earn each hour of work is less
than medical fees, it still repre-
sents their income. A couple
of hours wasted in a waiting-
room can mean a loss of any-
thing from £2 to £5 or more —
and that, plus the doctor’s fee,
means a lighter pocketbook and
higher blood - pressure. —-
Stromlo (N.S.W.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
WATER IN AGRICULTURE
'"F'he symposium on “Water in
Agriculture” arranged by
the N.S.W. branch of the Aus-
tralian Institute of Agricultural
Science and the “Men of the
Land” Society brought forward
interesting discussions. A. G.
Lowndes, for instance, pro-
duced some contentious
opinions about Government
preference for flood-irrigation,
and this aroused considerable
controversy.
Economics of Irrigation
The relative economy of the
use of water in spray- and
flood-irrigation is a vital sub-
ject, Lowndes said. “Very little
investigation seems to have
been done on it in Australia.
My own experience and per-
sonal observation suggest that
spray-irrigation is probably
four times more efficient in
water-use than flood-irrigation.
“In other words, I think that
it is possible to get four times
more production from a given
volume of water by using
spray-irrigation. If this is so,
Experiments have
been conducted in
Victoria to ascertain if
pellets of thyrocine
implanted under the
skin of sheep would
induce greater weight
of wool growth.
Results have shown
that sheep on restric-
ted diets produced
increase in fleece
weights of up to 10 per
cent. Sheep allowed
unlimited supplies of
feed showed no
increase in fleece
weight. No experi-
ments are needed to
prove the advantages
of Elastrator Rubber
Rings. Users through-
out the world report
a decided fall in losses
when this modern
method is used to
mark and tail lambs
and to mark calves.
then many Government plans
for the utilisation of irrigation-
water from major dams need
complete revision and rethink-
ing.”
He went on to say that, since
water is the major limiting-
factor in Australian agricul-
tural development, it was vitally
important that water-resources
“I’m trying to make Willie grow quick.”
should be used in the most
economic and efficient manner.
“Yet,” he said, “the Govern-
ment departments which are
planning expenditure of money
in the development of irriga-
tion-areas seem to be working
almost exclusively on continued
use of flood-irrigation, which is
the least efficient method of
using water.”
On Impermeable Soils
E. R. Hoare, officer-in-
charge of the C.5.1.R.0.
research-station at Griffith
(N.S.W.), in the Murrumbidgee
Irrigation Area, put forward
an argument against the use,
at present, of spray-irrigation
on the more impermeable
soils:
“The high rate of evapora-
tion combined with the low
permeability of the soil [in the
M.I.A.] presents problems in
relation to the application of
water to the land-surface, and
up to the present time has
resulted in the continued use
of furrow-irrigation against the
increasing world-wide tendency
of spray and pump-water
systems.
“The present pattern is not
necessarily the most economic
one, especially for labor, and
we may well see a tendency to
move to more spray-irrigation
as the economic background of
this area develops.
“One of the factors operat-
ing against the widespread use
of spray-irrigation,” he pointed
out, “is the relatively high cost
of electric energy. It may be
that the greater electrical out-
put from the water-schemes of
the mountain areas, together
with an increase in the pro-
duction of electricity from
combustion-systems, will result
in a lower cost of distribution
as the distribution - system
becomes more dense.”
If this were to occur, he
went on, there would still
remain the problem of dis-
tributing the water from the
ejection-point of the farm
irrigation-system. For soils of
low permeability the droplet
falling on the land must be
small. Water will not move
freely through that soil, and
spray-pipe spacings have to be
reduced, which increases the
cost of the equipment. “This
accentuates the need for low-
cost piping, and P.V.C. and
polythene may become useful
materials in this direction—and
it is a problem also very
dependent on the world price
of aluminium.
“In the Australian scene,”
he continued, “such techno-
logical investigations have not
received much attention. Not
because of lack of imagination,
but such problems have not
proved fashionably funda-
mental. The problem will have
to be faced, especially as there
will be increasing expenditure
on the part of the grower and
increasing investment on the
part of the engineer in such
devices.”
He outlined the difficulties of
flood-irrigation, and added
that these were gradually being
overcome. Those who favored
spray - irrigation, he said,
claimed that it was less waste-
ful of water and gave plants
water where it was most
needed. Further, they claimed,
the water was applied under
stricter control, which meant
no drainage-problems, such as
those often met with in flood-
ing.
Soil-Plant-Water
Dr. N. Collis-George, Asso-
ciate Professor of Soil Science
at the University of Sydney,
gave some interesting infor-
mation about what happens to
water in the soil, and how the
plant can get water-supplies
which vary in different condi-
tions of soil and soil-moisture
content.
Knowledge of the behavior
of different soils, he said, was
a valuable guide to irrigation
practice. It’s a question of
keeping enough water in the
soil to let the plant get
adequate supplies, but not too
much, so that water is wasted.
Other Factors
L. F. Myers, officer-in-
charge of the C.5.1.R.0.
regional pastoral laboratory at
Deniliquin (N.S.W.), added to
this by pointing out that the
maximum use of irrigation-
water could be reached only
when other factors limiting
production were removed.
Before expecting increased
production, he said, it was
necessary to see that the plants
had enough essential nutrients.
In the Riverina, for instance,
most plants, even saltbush,
responded to dressings of nitro-
gen, and many cereal yields
could be markedly increased by
topdressing without any addi-
tional water.
“I think in Australia we too
often plump for water as the
first limiting factor,” he said.


JOIN—
"MEN OF THE LAND"
AND READ
"THE LIVING EARTH"
A society and quarterly journal
devoted to Land Development,
Proper Land Use and Conserva-
tion of soil, water, vegetation
and forests.
SUBSCRIPTION—£1 per year.
JUNIORS —10/- per year.
CUT OUT AND POST
TODAY !
Name
ATTACH SUBSCRIPTION.
To: THE SECRETARY,
“MEN OF THE LAND,”
9 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
The Conway Stewart
No. 15 at 29/6
No. 12 at 35/-
OL fan wi tktL
WjaruellouS
14 carat Cjoi
ml
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
fitted with a genuine
14 carat gold nib.
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
fully guaranteed.
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
excellent value.
Ask your Retailer
he knows.
The No. 85L
42 7 6
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD. LONDON
“Efficient water - use begins
when soil-fertility is high and
agricultural practices attain
high levels.”
In irrigation-trials at Denili-
quin it had been estimated
that “summer-irrigated crops
often produced less than one
ton of dry-matter per acre-foot
of water, whereas winter-
pastures irrigated in autumn
and spring produced three to
four tons of dry-matter per
acre-foot.”
Other research-results “point
to the dilemma of the irriga-
tion-farmer: to irrigate fewer
acres with more water or more
acres with less water. This
dilemma,” he said, “will, I
hope, disappear when more is
known of the plant-light-evapo-
transpiration relationship of a
range of species. The results
also indicate the variation in
efficiency of water-use possible
by varying irrigation-tech-
nique.”
Before best use could be
made of water, he said, there
was a great deal to learn, not
only about the behavior of soils
and plants under different
irrigation-techniques but also
about the economics of the
various forms of production
under irrigation. This know-
ledge should be gained
urgently, because of the
increased supplies of irrigation-
water due to come from the
development of water-storage
projects.
Siltation
Outlining problems of water-
use in the United States, Dr.
Flarold Wanless, Professor of
Geology at the University of
Illinois, said that the siltation
problem had been thoroughly
investigated in America. How-
ever, it was feared that some
of the costly reservoirs there
would be completely silted-up
before they had even been paid
for. American farmers were
encouraged to practise exten-
sive soil-conservation in order
to protect the big irrigation-
schemes from becoming useless
through siltation.
Supplementary Irrigation
A. F. Burne, acting-senior-
engineer of the N.S.W. Water
Conservation and Irrigation
Commission, emphasised the
need for regulation of the use
of rivers for private irrigation-
schemes.
In dry periods, he said, the
authorities were snowed-under
with requests for licences and
permits from landholders who
wanted to begin pumping from
watercourses. These forms of
supplementary irrigation were
increasing rapidly, and they
gave scope for widespread
development.
He added: “I should like to
stress that supplementary irri-
gation should not be looked
upon merely as an emergency
supply in dry periods or
drought, but, wherever practic-
able, should be regarded as
basic to the many forms of
primary production, and
should be an integral part of a
programme of farm-improve-
ment.” The time to plan and
apply for permission to use
water was before dry times
came, he said.
Anfhracnose
“North”: Bean-growers often
suffer serious loss through
anthracnose, caused by a
fungus (Colletotrichum Unde ■
muthianum ) which attacks
plants and pods, of all varieties.
The disease is noticeable on
the green pods, where dark-
browp sunken spots appear,
usually during moist, humid
weather, either before or after
picking. The fungus pene-
trates the growing seed and
produces infested plants which
have small, black, cankerous
areas on the seedling leaves
and the base of the stem.
There is no cure for the
disease, but precautions can
prevent its spread. For in-
stance, when the harvesting of
an infested crop is completed,
burn all bushes and refuse, and
for sowing further crops of
beans choose new, clean land
and use only Government-
certified seed (available from
most seedsmen), saving seed
for succeeding crops from this
area, provided it shows no
trace of disease. Sow thinly,
and don’t cultivate about the
plants while they are wet with
dew or rain.
Title in Stock
“S.S.A.”: Replying to a
question in the N.S.W. Legis-
lative Assembly by C.P. leader
Davis Hughes, the Attorney-
General has prom sed to con-
sider new legislation to prevent
malpractices by financially un-
sound stock-purchasers.
The present position is that
such buyers can purchase stock
at auctions or in the paddock,
resell it and decamp with the
proceeds, but do no more than
create a liability to be sued in
the Civil Courts. Stock-and-
station agents in N.S.W.,
Queensland and Victoria are
naturally concerned about this
state of affairs. For some time
the N.S.W. Stock and Station
Agents’ Association has been
pressing for alterations to the
Act to provide:
1. That the title to stock
shall not pass until payment
has been made in full to the
vendor.
2. That it should be made a
criminal offence for a pur-
chaser to dispose of stock
before making payment, unless
permission has been specifically
obtained.
3. That when stock are paid
for by the selling-agent, all
rights possessed by the vendor
shall immediately be vested in
him.
H. H. Bridge, a councillor of
the association, who has been
studying the problem for some
time, points out that the sug-
gested alterations to the law
will protect stock-agents, par-
ticularly smaller ones.
Fertilisers
“Sundowner”: Farmers have
had good results from using
fertilisers to develop sandy
wasteland in South Australia.
To avoid the toxic effect of


KUCHING'S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KJTCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 43ST (2 lines).
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
trace-elements on the bacteria
which fix nitrogen in the soil,
the seed was sown with only
lime and super. The elements,
zinc, copper and molybdenum,
were applied later. The prac-
tice has been to sow with a
super.-lime mixture and after-
wards to broadcast a further
quantity of super, with the
trace-elements.
By this method, fine first-
year pastures have been
developed on the poorest
country in the State.
Silage Field-day
“Whiff”: At a successful
field-day at Belabula Farms,
Canowindra (N.S.W.), t h e
manager, A. Sergeant, showed
methods of making pit-silage
and stack-silage from lucerne
and clover-dominant pastures.
Half of this property of 1000
acres is rich Belabula River
flats. Well subdivided, it carries
the equivale of six sheep to
the acre, largely due to the
manager’s yearly ensilage pro-
gramme. Lucerne-hay made
on the property is used com-
mercially.
The two factors which con-
trol the fermentation-process
in ensiled material are heat
and moisture. The temperature
to aim at is between 90deg. and
lOOdeg. F., when fermentation
is dominated by the lactic-acid-
forming bacteria and a sweet
silage is made. Any tempera-
ture over lOOdeg. burns-up
nutrients, and eventually results
in black or charred silage.
Temperature is controlled by
the air present in the stacked
material. If silage is heating
too much, it needs rolling with
a tractor to press-out the air
while more material is piled-
on to pack the silage. Once
the air is expelled the tempera-
ture will remain constant.
Too much moisture in the
crop means that the material
will pack quickly and expel the
air before reaching the neces-
sary temperature, with sour
silage as the result. Excess
moisture is uneconomic, both
because of low ratio of made
silage to green-material carted
in and also the loss of soluble
nutrients drained from the pit.
The ideal moisture-content is
about 72 per cent., which
should give a soluble-nutrient
loss of only 17 per cent.
Pastures cut for silage contain
about 80 per cent, moisture,
which needs to be reduced by
wilting in the swath before
raking.
Ensiling material with an 80
per cent. moisture-content
means that for every 10 tons
of green-material carted there
will only be 2 tons of made
silage. With a 70 per cent,
moisture-content there will be
3 tons of made silage—or half
as much again. Sergeant
quoted an example from a
C.5.1.R.0. analysis of silage,
where it was found that high
weight-gains had been made on
silage with a moisture-content
of 74 per cent, and lower gains
on silage with 82 per cent,
moisture-content.
When a pit is started, the
grass is cut about two days
ahead and left to dry-out more
than usual; this ensures quick
heating, so the pit can reach
the right temperature. Enough
pasture is cut and raked each
day for the following day’si
needs. The temperature is
tested to check on heat of the
silage remaining at the right
level.
Barley-meal at the rate of
201 b. a ton of silage (or maize-
meal if more readily available,
but not oaten-meal, which is
too fibrous) can be added to
give additional carbohydrates
for bacteria to act on, saving
unnecessary break-down in
plant-tissue.
The drainage of silage-pits is
best done by means of a sump
at the lowest point in the pit.
Sump need be only 2ft. deep,
and can be filled with loose
brick, with a pipe running from
it to ground-level ; down the
pipe a dipstick can be put to
test the amount of water in the
pit, and through it excess water
can be pumped-out.
The pit can be covered with
earth the day after its. comple-
tion, provided temperature is
right. With grass-harrows run
over the earth-ballast once a
day for four days and again a
week later, the mound is
compacted and air - cracks
prevented from opening.
With stacks, instead of using
earth-ballast, top-off with Ift.
of very green grass and tramp
it until mushy. On the
weather-side of stacks it’s wise
to place a protective covering
of sisal kraft to prevent wind-
cracks, which may run horizon-
tally through the stack and
cause severe loss.
For filling wellmesh silos an
elevator is better than a blower.
The blower segregates the fine
and coarse material, causing an
unequal distribution of weight,
which could topple the silo
over. The mesh sections are
tied together with bale-twine,
and the silage is self-fed by
cutting the twine and remov-
ing the sections.
"Filled Milk"
“Van”: Applied to dried,
whole - milk substitutes, the
term “filled-milk” is unfor-
tunately chosen for the dairying
industry.
At first glance it gives the
impression that something has
been, added to milk to make it
better. So it’s misleading,
because by adding vegetable
fats to dried skim-milk the
nutritional value of filled-milk
is only equal to that of dried
whole-milk —depending on the
amount and type of fats added ;
sometimes it may not be up to
the standard of dried whole-
milk.
Eradicating Footrot
“Big Billy”: On a property
at Macarthur (Vic.) two men
got rid of a 23-per-cent, foot-
rot-infection in a flock of
12,000 Polwarths by this
method:
First they drove the sheep
through drafting-yards into a
footbath of water to soften
their feet for paring. Then
the sheep were driven up a
ramp into an elevated catching-
pen, placed so that they could
be lowered into the four sec-
tions of the cradle. Surplus
hair was removed with
secateurs, and the infected feet
were pared. Initial paring dis-
closed 2725 cases of infection.
After the flock had been
divided into affected and non-
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(6/11/’58)
Good general rains may be expected in most of Queens-
land during December, although rainfall may be patchy
in the far west areas. The heaviest falls, with the likelihood
of flooding, are probable in southern Queensland. Rain-
fall may be patchy in January, with heavy rains and wide-
spread flooding during February and March.
N.S.W. should receive good general rains during
December, with the best falls in the northern areas. Rainfall
may be patchy in January, apart from moderate to good
rains on the coast and tablelands and n.-w. slopes and plains
areas. General rains should occur in February.
Victoria should receive general rains during December,
with good follow-on rains in the southern half of the State
during January.
There should be good general rains throughout South
Australia during December. Moderate rain is likely in the
agricultural areas during January, but the interior may have
only light rain.
In Western Australia the Kimberleys should receive
fairly heavy rains during December, with good rains above
average in the south-east areas, Eucla and part of the s.-w.
agricultural area.
LENNOX WALKER.


BANKERS TO MANY GREAT
AUSTRALIAN BUSINESSES
pNI
m
■a
1
You, too, can benefit
by the same expert service
and advice, whether your
business be large or small.
* * *
Interest - bearing
deposits with this Bank
provide a safe and flex-
ible means of investment.
* * *
C.B.C. Savings Bank
facilities will help members
of your family to make
their money grow.
The
Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
C.B.C. Savings Bank Limited
(DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANY)
affected mobs, they were run
into separate footbaths con-
taining a 5-per-cent, formalin-
solution. The affected sheep
were stood in the solution for
20 minutes, the non-affected
ones for 10 minutes. After the
first week of paring, both lots
were run through the formalin-
bath each week for six weeks,
spending about three minutes
in the bath.
The second paring, four
weeks after the first, showed
that 866 sheep were still
affected. The third and final
paring disclosed 100 affected
sheep, which were sold imme-
diately to the local abattoirs.
From then on a check was
kept, and any sheep showing
lameness were isolated into a
hospital-mob. Where sheep
had to be moved to paddocks
cut by public roads, bags over-
laid with wire-mesh were used
to form a clean path and
guard against further infection.
Green-lot Feeding
“Bigend”: Farmers are
finding that green-lot feeding
is saving fodder and reducing
costs. The idea isn’t new ; but
the spread of forage-harvest-
ing machinery has given it
impetus in the past few year?
Previously the greenstuff had to
be cut by mower or by hand,
and carted out into the feeding-
paddock.
Modern forage-harvesters
are not all built alike, but the
basic idea is the same. Some
catch the cut green crop in a
cage drawn behind the cutting-
blades ; others blow the cut
crop into a trailer drawn beside
the harvester.
Feeding-off a green crop has
advantages over grazing it off.
First, all the crop is used. No
matter how hungry the stock,
they will naturally go for the
young, tender growth first;
much of this —and half the
crop—is wasted by soiling.
Then, a crop cut-off will res-
pond quicker than one fed-off.
This is important when the
crop is irrigated pasture or a
patch of lucerne. A quick re-
growth may save a watering,
which costs money and time.
The problem of grazing-off a
crop is not as easy as it seems.
On heavy black soil the hoofs
of stock can pack the soil and
increase the number of tillage-
operations necessary to get it
in good nick for the next plant-
ing. As with watering, every
extra cultivation costs hard
cash.
On the debit side, some fer-
tility, in the form of animal,-
droppings, is lost if stock are
kept out of the cultivation-
paddocks. This can be over-
come either by feeding the cut
green crop in a fallow paddock
(spread over a different area
every day to prevent soil-impac-
tion) or by feeding the green-
stuff in a circumscribed area
and carting the waste and
droppings back on to the culti-
vation when the land is being
worked. All in all, the loss of
fertility is more than balanced
by the gains from green-lot
feeding.
The use of forage-harvesters
is really necessary when it
comes to making silage. Putting
down a pit of silage was once
a farmer’s nightmare—solid
slugging from morning to night,
and, even worse, slow work.
Now it's easier to put the stuff
in a pit than to get it out, and
the tonnage of silage has greatly
increased since harvesters came
on the market.
Possibly the brightest spot
on the silage-horizon is the
ensiling of the crop by con-
tractors who go from farm to
farm with a forage-harvester,
The price is right in most cases,
and the contract machine
reduces the capital-cost of
machinery on the individual
farm.
With all the talk that’s going
on about reducing costs on the
farm, there are only certain
things that the farmer can con-
trol. Cutting waste in feeding-
off crops is one. Putting
fodder away for a dry spell is
another. The forage-harvester
is playing its part in both of
these.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept., NEW SUB. / RENEWAL
The Bulletin Newspaper, (Please cross out one)
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order f0r.......
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
RECIPIENT:
ADDRESS
DONOR: .
ADDRESS
GIFT SUBSCRIPTION: If the above is a Christmas gift
an appropriate Greetings-card will be sent direct to the
recipient announcing your gift and signed on your behalf.
SIGN CARD :
Rate? (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
fre-w. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign; £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FANIA GLIKSMAN late of Sydney
—TAKE NOTICE that HENRY GLIKS-
MAN has filed his Petition for Divorce
No. 1357 of 1958 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you in-
tend to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie .Street
Sydney by the 28th day of January
1959 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from Mr. G. F.
OSBORNE, Solicitor, 77-79 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHA®,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MIJO MARKOVIC late of Burwood
Hostel near Sydney New South Wales. —•
TAKE NOTICE that MAGDALENA
MARKOVIC has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3930 of 1958 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry of
this Court Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by 22nd day
of January 1959 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. FLANNERY, MURA & CO.,
Solicitors. 29 Bligh Street Sydney. —•
J. DOUG HAN, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copies of “The Digest of World
Reading” for Oct., ’5l, July, ’52,
April, ’53, Dec., ’53, Feb., ’54,
May, ’54, June, ’54, and Dec., ’54.
—6762.
Information Sought
Recipe for tartare-sauce ?
Assemble i gill salad-oil, 1 table-
spoon cream, lj) tablespoon vine-
gar, \ teaspoon chopped parsley, 1
teaspoon thyme and marjoram, 1
teaspoon chopped gherkin, \ tea-
spoon chopped capers, \ teaspoon
caster-sugar, salt and cayenne to
taste, 1 egg-yolk. Beat yolk
slightly in a basin, add oil a few
drops at a time, beating until thick.
Stir well, add cream and mix lightly.
Add the seasonings, and lastly the
vinegar, a little at a time. Other
recipes give slightly larger quanti-
ties of oil —it depends on personal
taste.
* * * *
Information on Francis Ormond,
Victorian philanthropist of last
century ?
Ormond was the son of a
merchant-captain who settled at
Port Phillip in 1842. He was born
at Aberdeen, Scotland, on Novem-
ber 23, 1829, educated in Liverpool
and brought by his parents to Gee-
long. Here he first tried com-
mercial life, and then became a
squatter. He made a lot of money,
which he determined to spend on
the encouragement of education in
Victoria. Among his gifts and
legacies for this purpose the prin-
cipal were morj than £lOO,OOO to
Ormond College within the Univer-
sity, £20,000 to endow the Chair of
Music at the University and £ll,OOO
to the Melbourne Working Men's
College. His will further provided
large sums for hospitals and asylums
at Melbourne, Geelong and Bal-
larat. He died in France during a
visit to Europe on May 5, 1889.
From 1882 till his death he was
a member of the Victorian Legis-
lative Council.
* * * *
What is the device, in verse,
known as “sprung rhythm,” spon-
sored by Gerard Manley Hopkins ?
“Sprung' rhythm” is a sort of
counterpointing of the ordinary
“running rhythm” of English poetry,
effected by reversing the fall of
stressed and ' unstressed syllables.
Writers of running rhythm often
reverse one foot, usually the first
of a line, for the purpose of
emphasis: if you reverse through-
out you “mount,” Hopkins says, a
new rhythm upon the old. Hopkins
gave himself the licence of using
“hangers” or “outrides” —one, two
or three slack syllables added to a
foot and not counted in the nominal
scanning. “The feet are assumed to
be equally long or strong and their
seeming inequality is made up by
pause or stressing.” For a full
explanation see Hopkins’s introduc-
tion to his Poems (Oxford Univer-
sity Press). An example is “Hurrah-
ing in Harvest,” a sonnet in sprung
and outriding rhythm—“the out-
riding feet are not to be confused
with dactyls or paeons.” The first
four lines:
Summer ends now; now, barbarous in
beauty, the stooks arise
Around; up above, what wind-walks!
what lovely behavior
Of silk-sack clouds! has wilder, wilful-
wavier
Meal-drift moulded ever and melted
across skies?
* * * *
What happened when Dr. Evatt
“bucked the party-machine’ early
in his career ?
Dr. Evatt entered Parliament by
winning Balmain, in the N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly, in 1925, but
he was beaten in a preselection
ballot before the October, 1927,
elections, as were several other
“anti-Lang” M.L.A.s, including
Tom Mutch, who died this year.
Dr. Evatt had won his first ballot,
but another was ordered by the
executive —“apparently because he
won too easily,” The Bulletin
said (B. 1/9/’27). It went on to
say that Evatt “was beaten by the
block vote of Red coalminers.” Dr.
Evatt and the other anti-Lang
members stood again, and several,
including Evatt and Mutch, retained
their seats. Evatt in his campaign
said he stood as a Laborite
“opposed to a system of preselec-
tion that has broken-down before
the electors’ eyes because of its
corruption.”
* * * *
(1) What sort of mills are used
in the extraction of co’conut-oil from
copra ? (2) What are the advan-
tages of coconut-oil for manufactur-
ing soap ?
(1) Native mills may consist only
of a mortar and pestle and a
bullock-team, with an engine some-
times displacing the bullocks; in
a few places, particularly the
Philippines, hydraulic-press mills
are operated. In the cruder types,
the pestle, operated against the
mortar, presses out the oil, which
accumulates in the centre while the
residue is forced against the sides
of the mortar. This yields an
extract of oil equal to 50 p.c. of
the weight of the copra treated.
The modern hydraulic-press used in
American and European countries
has great capacity and efficiency, but
is expensive for small millsi. The
Rosedowns expeller, requiring no
expensive hydraulic equipment, is,
however, widely used in small mills.
Oil recovered by this means is in
the vicinity of 60 p.c. of the weight
of copra. (2) Coconut-oil used
for soap-manufacture does not need
bleaching before use. It produces
a hard soap with a fair degree of
solubility in water, and is of par-
ticular value in the manufacture
of marine-soap, since it lathers in
salt-water. The amount of gly-
cerine obtained in making soap
from coconut-oil is greater than
can be obtained from any other oil
available.
* * * *
Particulars of the Act of Union
uniting England and Scotland ?
Although joined by one crown
by the accession of James VI of
Scotland to the English throne in
1603, England and Scotland retained
separate Governments, and in the
later years of William 111 and the
early part of Anne’s reign theTe was
a great deal of friction. In 1698
a Scottish attempt to found a
colony on the Isthmus of Darien
was a disastrous failure, this being
ascribed to lack of English sym-
pathy. Under the English Naviga-
tion Acts the Scots were regarded
as belonging to a foreign country,
and their trade consequently
suffered. In 1703 the Scottish Parlia-
ment passed an Act of Security
authorising the Parliament, upon
the death of Anne, to choose a
successor other than the one chosen
in England. This brought matters
to a head, necessitating either union
or complete separation.
The English Government faced
the situation and proposed a union
between the two countries. Com-
missioners from England and Scot-
land convened in. London, and a.
treaty was drawn-up and adopted.
This Act of Union agreed that the
Scottish Parliament and Council
should cease to exist and that there
should be one Government for the
two countries. The Scots were to
retain their own established Church
and their own legal system, with
its College of Justice in Edinburgh.
Trade between the two countries
was to be free, and no legal differ-
ence was to be recognised between
English and Scots throughout the
British Empire. The United King-
dom was henceforth to be known
as Great Britain.
* * * *
Details of the British Industries
Scholarship scheme for the current
term ?
The Federation of British Indus-
tries, London, in co-operation with
the Government of the Common-
wealth of Australia, is again offering
scholarships providing practical
training in the U.K. during 1959-60
for selected Australian engineering
graduates and diplomates. Three
types of scholarships are offered —
A, B and C. In Australia types
A and C are the most frequently
awarded. Type A are for recently
qualified engineers who have had
not more than two years’ practical
or industrial experience, including
experience gained during their
engineering course. Applications
are also invited from final-year
students who expect to qualify for
a degree or diploma at the end
of the year and whose practical
experience does not exceed two
years. Scholars are not paid by the
firms with which they are in train-
ing, but receive from the federation
a maintenance-allowance of £476
stg. per annum. Type A scholar-
ships also cover cost of travel to


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
13 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TIIE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO 808 PATTERSON late of Manus
Island Seaman. —TAKE NOTICE that
JOHN READING has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3299 of 1958 on the ground
of the adultery of ISABEL FRANCES
READING his wife with you If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by the 28th of January 1959 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MICHELE GEE WILSON &
CLAPIN, Solicitors, of 92 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
KllV mom SAFE!
SANDERS
<^FILE|
Correspondence, invoices.
statements, etc., filed in the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted info a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —or
any other period.
Prices and fur*
ther information
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Diuributlng Agenta —
MELBOURNE , t Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE . , Virion Price Ltd.
PERTU • . Doakel Book Co. (AuiU)
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. .. .. 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
and from the U.K., as well as the
payment of shipboard allowance of
10s. stg. per day.
Type B scholarships are the same
as Type A awards, except that
scholars must pay their own fares
to and from the U.K. Substantial
fare-concessions are available. Type
B scholars do not receive a ship-
board allowance.
In the Type C category, applicants
must have had not less than five
years’ industrial or practical experi-
ence. The scholarship provides
training for from six to 12 months
and. the major part of living-
expenses. While in training, Type
C scholars get a maintenance-
allowance at the rate of £550 stg.
each year, to which they are
required to contribute, before leav-
ing Australia, at the rate of £lOO
stg. a year. They must pay for
their travel to and from the U.K.
and deposit in advance the cost of
their homeward passage. Fare-
concessions are available.
All applications must be made
on a prescribed form (in triplicate),
copies of which may be obtained
from The Australian Selection Com-
mittee, F. 8.1. Overseas Scholarship
Scheme, c/o Commonwealth Office
of Education, Commonwealth Bank
Building, York and Market Streets,
Sydney. Applications, together with
three certified copies of the candi-
date’s academic record, must reach
the committee by Wednesday,
December 31.
Brief Answers
M.J.K.: Write either to
Tyrrell’s Pty., Ltd., 202 George
Street,' 1 Sydney, or Angus and
Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney... .G.M.: Use of
gold preparations for the treatment
of rheumatoid arthritis has become
less popular in recent years—not
only because of the expense of the
preparations involved. To find out
production-costs of such drugs
write to Schering Pty., Ltd., 52
Carrington Street, Sydney....
N.L.W.: A round-table conference
was held at The Hague (August-
November, 1949) between repre-
sentatives of the Netherlands and of
Indonesia at which agreement was
reached on the complete transfer of
sovereignty in Indonesia to the
“United States of Indonesia”—
except for Dutch New Guinea, the
status of which was left for future
discussion. The “future discussion”
so far held has not yet worked out
a solution to the problem....
8.D.: Yes, you can rest assured
that the two firms are associated,
as claimed in the advertisement.
.... L.C.: Write Rev. Brother L. C.
McAllen, honorary promoter Hotel
Pacific Art Union, 26-32 McMahon
Street, Hurstville (N.S.W.)—closes
Dec. 8....P.W.: (1) Write United
Nations Information Centre, 44
Martin Place, Sydney. (2) Write
United Kingdom Information Ser-
vice, Room 419, 66 Pitt Street,
Sydney... .X.X.: Hard to say what
the value of a Parker 20-gauge gun
would be without knowing exactly
what model it is. If the gun is a
standard box-lock field-model its
value would be approximately £25.
The older firm of Parker Bros, (like
L. C. Smith’s) have both been
absorbed into the Ithica Firearms
Association of New York; produc-
tion of all their models has stopped.
Guns b'y Parker Bros, were con-
sidered the best-quality American
gun made.
THE HOLLIDAYS
BY MIDDY
“Sir! you can get rid of ME for half the price he's asking!”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
'Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
R. 8.: A few stanzas, then:
SICK AT HEART.
Give him the right to vote, they say.
Give him the right of free men,
Of free men, or so they say.
No one said we will teach him
To drink “fool’s water” like white men.
So they gave to this stone-age man
Citizenship rights of his country,
White man’s rights to black man.
So Xamatjira, the gentle one,
Painted in a new light,
The light of a confused one.
Yet humble and proud this artist,
Proud that the white man loved him.
They recognised the brush of an artist.
Great reward was to come his way.
Money for shiny things and hot liquor.
He was free to spend it any way ....
... .F.R.P.: That’s the second jingle
on Mr. Pringle this week. Come,
come... .R.P.G.: The Religious
Editor took one look at “The
Harlot’s Plea” and fainted... .J.C.:
“The still day fled, hung suspended
high.” But if it was still how
could it flee, and if it did flee how
could it be hanging suspended?
These problems trouble us for
hours... .F. 8.: Tempted by “Elegy
on a Cast-off Boot,” but it’s worn
a bit thin... .K. 8.: Fair enough
for your age, but watch what you’re
writing about; don’t talk in general-
isations ; know and name your
flowers and your birds G.R.:
There’s some force in the “Jungle
Walk”... .M.A.H.: “I was advised
by Eric Baume to send the enclosed
poem to The Bulletin.” We’ll
have a word with Eric about it
J.W.: Off with you, then:
I’m for the Bush
To hoist myself upon the twisted limb
Of some gale-driven gum and, riding
there,
Cry thanks ! —and thanks again !
To its wild prodigal exuberant array.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Best gowns came out for the opening
night of the Royal Ballet at Her Majesty’s,
and, as it was a mild summer evening,
there were rainbow-hues in satin and
silk, drift-away silk-organzas and
-taffetas and a great variety of flower-
patterned silks and satins.
The Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress
(Cr. and Mrs. F. W. Thomas)
were in the audience; Mrs. Thomas
chose a full-length gown of white
satin printed in large grey and
green roses, interspersed with faint leaf-
traceries. They were welcomed by Sir
Frank and Lady Tait (she wearing a short
frock of black crimson-shot taffeta), the
assistant-director, John Field, his wife,
prima ballerina Anne Heaton and Anya
Linden, another of the prima ballerinas.
Mrs. Field’s lovely gown was of orchid-
pink embroidered-satin, and Miss Linden
chose a short coat-frock of scarlet wool.
A very decorative trio were Mrs. John
Mollard, Mrs. Tom Carlyon and Mrs.
Kenneth Hadley. Lady Warner wore a
delightful formal gown of green, pink
and white flower-printed satin. Mrs.
Eric Rogers, who was accompanied by
her schoolgirl daughter Paulette, chose
an attractive flowered-silk frock in tones
of white, pink and green. Mrs. Ronald
Marriott, who brought her daughter
Miranda and niece Susan Wright, looked
charming in a formal gown of turquoise-
blue chiffon. Mrs. F. H. Wright wore
chiffons in a soft rose-pink toning. With
Mr. and Mrs. Ken Luke was their small
daughter Jenny. Mrs. Peter'Condon’s
black-taffeta gown had a deep neckline
which was highlighted at the back of
the shoulders with one large white rose.
Marsha Turnbull, who was with her
parents, Dr. and Mrs. Turnbull, of
Hobart, wore a short turquoise-blue
chiffon frock which featured a strapless
top of ocelot-fur. Mrs. Roy McFarlane,
Dr. and Mrs. R. Shatin, Sir Frank and
Lady Selleck, Mr. and Mrs. H. I. Fader
and Dr. and Mrs. E. E. Dunlop were
also in the audience.
•Ct ☆
Claridge’s, South Yarra, will be the set-
ting for a supper-dance which the Whern-
side Junior Auxiliary to the Royal Mel-
bourne Hospital have named “Calypso.”
There’ll be all sorts of exotic decorations
in keeping with the name, and famous
pianist Winifred Atwell will join the com-
mittee at supper and present the lucky
prizes. This year the auxiliary has been
working for equipment for clinical
photography and already has £2OO in
hand. Tickets to “Calypso” will cost 255.
each and may be obtained from Barbara
Challingsworth (BY 3110) or Joan
Duckett (BY 2737). Date is November 21.
* ☆ *
The Governor and Lady Brooks
honored with a small dance at Govern-
ment House Lieut. Christopher Chamber-
len, A.D.C. to his Excellency, who relin-
quishes his post on December 4 to rejoin
the Royal Navy. The State drawing-
room was decorated with flowers from
the G.H. gardens for the occasion. Mr.
and Mrs. Robin Byrne (the Governor’s
and Lady Brooks’s son-in-law and
daughter) were among the number of
young friends Christopher has made in
the two years he has been in residence
at Government House.
Deirdre, only daughter of the late Mr.
and Mrs. John Neylon, of Kew, was
educated at Fintona and later graduated
from the Uni. with a B.A. degree. She
has now joined the Federal Hotel
organisation as public- and press-relations
officer. Her job is an interesting one, as
she meets all the important guests, sees
to their comfort and organises tours into
the country if needed. Deirdre has a
great love for the theatre and has
appeared in many Little Theatre produc-
tions. This year she hasn’t been able to
take on any parts, but hopes next year
to indulge her love of acting. Reading,
tennis and theatregoing are her favorite
hobbies.
“Campaign Hostess,” a party-drive to
help raise money for the Yooralla
Crippled Children’s Appeal, was launched
by Mrs. Henry Bolte at an open-air
luncheon at the Motel De Ville in Park-
ville. Mrs. Bolte (she is president of
the women’s committee working for the
appeal), accompanied by Dame Mary
Daly (chairman), arrived at the motel
in a hansom cab with Winifred Atwell.
Two crippled children from Yooralla
presented bouquets to Mrs. Bolte and
Dame Mary. Special guests-of-honor
were ballerina Rowena Jackson and her
husband, Philip Chatfield, of the Royal
Ballet Company. Objective of “Cam-
paign Hostess” is to encourage every
woman in Victoria to hold a party,
whether small or large, to raise money
for this worth-while cause. Among those
present were Mrs. Maurice Ashkanasy
(her husband is chairman of the appeal),
Lady Selleck (deputy-chairman of the
women’s committee), Mrs. Tom Carlyon
(hon. secretary), Mrs. Eric Cottrell (hon.
treasurer), Mrs. W. K. Burnside, Lady
McCauley, Mrs. “Bing” Molyneux and
Mrs. lan Beaurepaire.
☆ ☆ ☆
On December 5 the Prime Minister of
Canada, Mr. John Diefenbaker, and his
wife will arrive for a brief visit. Mrs.
Henry Bolte, wife of the Premier, will
be hostess at a luncheon at Parliament
House given that same day in honor
of Mrs. Diefenbaker, and at 5.15 p.m.
there will be a State reception at Parlia-
ment House for the distinguished guests.
Mr. and Mrs. Diefenbaker will stay
with the Governor and Lady Brooks at
Government House.
☆ ☆ ☆
When she was married to Paul Radford
at Melbourne Grammar School Chapel,
Petrina Asplin wore a gown of white
delustred satin which had yoke and tiny
sleeves of lace. The full skirt was caught-
up with a bow at the front hemline, and
at the back it fell into a short train. The
tulle veil was held with a coronet of
pearls and rhinestones. The bride, who
is the elder daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
M. D. Asplin, of Brighton, was attended
by her sister Kay and the bridegroom’s
sister Denise. Their short Princess-line
frocks of blush-pink taffeta featured
ruched Empire bodices. The bridegroom
is the only son of Group-Captain and
Mrs. R. R. Radford. lan Houston was
best man and John Curnow groomsman.
CANBERRA
Lady Slim warmly praised the Aus-
tralian Girl Guide Association for their
guide-work in Papua-New Guinea when,
as Federal president of the association,
she opened a four-day conference at
Industry House. Her Excellency, attended
by Miss Jean Lester, was welcomed by
the chief-commissioner for Australia,
Miss Elinor Manning, and the six State
commissioners, who during their stay in
Canberra were house - guests of the
Governor-General and Lady Slim.
* # V
Mr. F. D. Quinane, chairman of the
advisory council, welcomed guests to a
civic reception given by the council for
the 44 delegates of the Girl Guide Asso-
ciation at Havelock House. Guest of honor
was the chief-commissioner of Girl
Guides in India, Mrs. Clubwala Jadhav,
who is making her first visit to Australia
Another interesting visitor was Mrs. M.
Lalor, commissioner in Port Moresby ;
Mrs. E. Ringrose came from Queens-
land ; Mrs. C. Fairbairn from Victoria ;


Miss J. Wood, S.A.; Miss S. Perry,
W.A.; Miss G. Hesketh, Tasmania ; and
Mrs. W. C. Wentworth from Sydney.
V # %-
To celebrate the 76th birthday of
King Gustav Adolf of Sweden, the
Swedish Minister and Madame Bergen-
strahle gave a late-afternoon garden-
party at their Legation residence.
Madame Bergenstrahle chose a full-
skirted frock in white silk, patterned
in small black leaves, to receive guests
with her husband. Among those who
enjoyed the pleasant party were the
Japanese Ambassador and Mrs. T.
Suzuki; the American Ambassador and
Mrs. W. J. Sebald ; the High Commis-
sioner for India, Mr. Menon ; and the
High Commissioner for South Africa
with Mrs. Hamilton, whose smart frock
in white taffeta and lace was worn with
a black organza straw hat. Counsellor
for the Netherlands Embassy, Mr. J.
Insinger, was there with his wife ; Mr.
and Mrs. P. S. McGovern ; Commander
Simms, of H.M.A.S. Harman, and
Group-Captain Gordon Steege, with Mrs.
Steege.
SYDNEY
Armistice Day brought a quiet pause
to the week’s occupations, and, as 150,000
poppy-petals showered from the top of
the Town Hall at the conclusion of the
day of remembrance, there was great
sadness for the Australian servicemen
who had died in wars since 1914, each
servicemen represented by a petal.
At the same time the week brought a
feeling of hopefulness that care for others
and not destructfulness is the light for
the future. At the Pan-Pacific Rehabilita-
tion Conference held at Mark Foy’s
Empress Rooms, one heard of advances
made in every branch of care for the
disabled. One of the most interesting
talks was by Dr. F. Eleanor Schonell, a
British medico, who with her husband,
Professor F. J. Schonell, of Brisbane,
made one of Australia’s most outstand-
ing teams of experts in this field.
Dr. Schonell said that the disabled child
needed love and security, but also needed
independence, self-confidence, discipline
and success. They should not be allowed
to become little tyrants in the home or
to exploit their position so that the rest
of the family suffered. Expert advice was
often needed by parents lest this situa-
tion should arise.
☆ ☆ ☆
There was a special air of enthusiasm
at the opening of the exhibition of
Norman Lindsay’s etching’s at David
Jones’ Gallery on Wednesday. It may
have been due to the exhibition itself, so
vibrant and commanding, or perhaps to
the thrill (as Mr. E. Lloyd Jones said) of
having the name of Lindsay once more
associated with the gallery, or probably
to the presence of the artist’s wife, Mrs.
Rose Lindsay, witty and audacious ; his
daughter, Mrs. Bruce Glad (whose hus-
band had organised the exhibition); and
his granddaughters Helen (7) and
Catherine (4). He himself had stayed at
home in his garden at Springwood, but
was represented by the Raynor Hoff head
in bronze, on which Mrs. Lindsay said
they should have placed a laurel wreath
to complete the picture. Some of the
etchings were for sale, and one noticed
that Mrs. Bruce McFarlan picked out a
particularly lovely one, “Leda and the
Swan,” for her home.
Anne Stenmark, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. J. O. Stenmark, is a member of The
Dominican Players, who will stage one
of their witty revues, “Gone to the Pack,”
at Santa Sabina College early in
February. The Dominican Players are
a group of clever girls who not only
appear in their revues but also write the
sketches and music. They donate the
proceeds from their performances to a
Dominican charity.
This is an age of wonders, and this
week’s special wonder was how people
get to be so splendidly suntanned so early
in the season. There must be more
Sydneysiders who winter in Queensland
than one imagined. Another wonder was
at the number of bikinis on the beaches,
many more than in past seasons. Is
this the New Australians’ influence? Or
is it merely an effort to prove Mr. Pringle
wrong? (You remember, perhaps, that he
said the Australian beach-scene was not
erotic.)
☆ ☆ ☆
A round of applause greeted the
Governor, Sir Eric Woodward, and Lady
Woodward when they entered the ball-
room of the Trocadero for the reception
given in their honor by the Catholic laity
of Sydney during the week. Cardinal
Gilroy, when welcoming Sir Eric and
Lady Woodward and Miss Judith Wood-
ward, said he was particularly glad that
they had chosen to attend the reception
as a family. Over 400 people attended
the reception, welcomed by the president
of the newly formed Associated Catholic
Committee, Mrs. D. G. Conneeley, and
her husband.
☆. ☆ ☆
Couldn’t help chuckling at the report
that the owners of Australian horse
Sailor’s Guide, Mr. A. C. Dibb and Mr.
Keith Dibb (Bendigo, Vic.), were reluct-
ant, surprised, disappointed and regretful
at their jockey having lodged the protest
which gave their horse the Washington
International. It was funny, because the
report was accompanied by a photograph
of the Dibbs obviously delighted and
overjoyed at receiving the cup. Quite
rightly, of course.
☆ ☆ ☆
The 50 couples who attended the gala
cocktail-party and dinner aboard the
Mariposa on Monday night were also
privileged to see a preview of a new
film, “The Reluctant Debutante,” which
stars Rex Harrison and Kay Kendall.
Mrs. C. R. McKerihan, who organised
the evening, wore a black-lace ballerina
to welcome the guests. She said that the
Matson Line had made all the facilities
of the Mariposa available to her commit-
tee to aid the Women’s Hospital, for
which they work, and that she could have
sold the tickets for this glamorous even-
ing a dozen times over.
☆ ☆ ☆ ■
All who are interested in the welfare
of the elderly are invited to attend the
inaugural meeting of Old People’s Week,
1958, at the Town Hall next Sunday,
November 23, at 2.30 p.m. It is the first
State-vvide “week” of its kind to be held
in Australia, and it is free and open to
the public.
☆ ☆ ☆
A kitchen specially designed to make
it possible for a disabled person to pre-
pare and serve a meal was one of the
most fascinating exhibitions of the week.
At Anthony Hordern’s Gallery one saw
how a little thought could solve many
problems of the disabled. For instance,
peeling a potato when one has only
one arm becomes easy when the vege-
table is spiked on to a nail driven point-
up through the serving-board. Bread is
also anchored to the board by an easily
adjusted grip ; space is allowed under
the sink so that a wheelchair can be
moved close ; dust-pans and -brushes
have long handles, so that no stooping is
necessary ; there is a magnet on the
end of a long stick for picking up fallen
objects; bowls are inserted into the
serving-board so that they will not slip ;
pot-holders are magnetised and cling to
the side of the stove when not in use ;
shelves are shallow, and some revolve, so
that no stretching is necessary. And so
on, through a whole houseful of ingenious
contrivances to help disabled people to
help themselves. The exhibition was
arranged by Red Cross in. conjunction
with the International Society for the
Welfare of Cripples.


Europe working on their first novels
and books of poems.”
“There would seem to be,” says
Malcolm Cowley in his introduction,
“four stages in the composition of a
story.”
First the germ—“a new and simple
element introduced into an existing
situation or m00d... .something that
serves as a focal-point for a hitherto
disorganised mass of remembered
material.” Joyce Cary once found it
in the wrinkles on a young woman’s
forehead; often it is a remark over-
heard; sometimes a word or phrase in
a book.
Then comes the “gestation” period,
when the awakened imagination shapes
and enlarges the idea. Robert Penn
Warren once “carried” a novel for six
years; but Simenon, once he has a
beginning, “can’t bear it veiy long” and
has to get started within a few days.
There is not much agreement about
how far the idea must be developed
before the next step—the first draft(s)
—is taken. Some, chiefly the short-
story writers, have to be able to see the
work as a whole before they can start
it; others, chiefly the novelists, like to
have a sense of “making voyages of
exploration with only the roughest of
maps.” E. M. Forster, for example,
when he started “A Passage to India,”
“knew that something important
happened in the Malabar [sic] Caves,
and that it would have a central place
in the novel—but I didn’t know what
it would be.”
In the last stage —final drafts and
revision—the heroes of this volume
seem to be James Thurber and
Truman Capote. Thurber once wrote
about 240.000 words to produce a
20,000-word story —15 rewrites. Capote
does a first draft in longhand (pencil);
a complete revision in longhand; and
a third draft (typed) on “a very special
kind of yellow paper.” He then puts
the manuscript away “for a week, a
month, sometimes longer,” reads and
revises it coldly and, if he still likes
it, types “a final version on white paper,
and that’s that.” Angus Wilson, on the
other hand, does only one draft, writing
quickly and making few changes.
“Hemlock and After” took him four
weeks, “Anglo-Saxon Attitudes” four
months.
Most writers seem to have work-
rituals to which they cling devoutly.
Ernest Hemingway (not interviewed,
but often referred to) sharpens 20
pencils before starting work, and once
thought “that his fingers did much of
his thinking for him”; Thornton Wilder
begins with a long walk; Angus Wilson
acts his dialogue aloud to himself as
he writes; William Faulkner and
Francois Mauriac like to feel as if they
are taking down dictation from
“voices.” Nearly all of them talk as if
their work were physical and words
were objects which have to be worked
into their effective places by an almost
manual skill—“l would like to carve
my novel in a piece of wood,” says
Simenon.
Sooner or later most of the inter-
viewers got round to that pet subject
of the “little” magazines, “The Writer
and Society,” and here the responses
were strikingly uniform and convincing.
Apparently they write primarily to
expose problems, personal or social,
which obsess them, hoping that their
writing will be true enough to help
others with the same problems.
But, however they do their work,
and whatever they think about it, they
seem to enjoy it. “I have always found
writing pleasant.” Forster says, “and
don’t understand what people mean by
‘throes of creation.’ ” Moravia,
O’Connor, Wilson and Faulkner would
all agree with him. “Even rewriting’s
fun,” says Thurber. And even those
who dread writing, like Styron and
Capote, like it to the extent that they
have a greater dread of not writing.
J. A.
Stamp-makers
The 870-page De La Rue History of
British and Foreign Postage Stamps,
by John Easton (Faber), has fallen
into the hands of at least one philatelic
Philistine; though from this history of
the great British firm of postage-stamp
printers one might conclude that the
De La Rues are philatelic Philistines
themselves.
To be sure, the author, John Easton,
is described as a philatelist on the
jacket; but there is no reference to
“philately” in the index; nor, although
it is a book that only a philatelist could
read consecutively from cover to cover,
has one’s dipping into it disclosed a
suggestion that postage-stamps have
any use other than for sticking on
letters and making a modest profit (an
1855 tender was four-and-a-fifth pence
a thousand; and in the 1860’s the price
was around 90s. a ream of 319 sheets).
The De La Rues were not the first
to print postage-stamps. They secured
a drafts-and-receipts stamp-contract in
1853. Their first postage-stamp was a
carmine fourpence issued in 1855.
They got more and more postage-stamp
business, but they didn’t get into the
really big time until 1880, when their
tender (printed here in full) took the
penny stamp from Perkins, Bacon.
It had been a duel of methods.
Perkins, Bacon put their faith in beauti-
ful copperplate engraving. De La Rue
plumped for letterpress-printing. Paper
used by Perkins, Bacon had to be
damped for the copperplate process,
and its shrinkage gave them trouble
with their perforating-machines. Then
there was the matter of inks: De La
Rues were under great pains to point
out that “copperplate-printed stamps
can be forged by various processes,”
whereas “the number of stamps we have
supplied could be counted literally by
billions, and yet in no case have we
had a complaint of forgery, or of the
stamps being cleaned for use a second
time, when once they had been properly
cancelled.”
This brought the De La Rues to their
main selling-point: they had developed
fugitive inks. They had single-fugitives
which, when cancelled by printing-
inks, could not be cleaned except by
fading the ink of the stamp more than
that of the obliteration. And they had
double-fugitives which, cancelled by
printing-ink or by writing-ink, would
be destroyed by any attempt to clean
them with benzine, hydrochloric acid,
bleaching-powder, oxalic acid, or oxalic
acid and ammonia. “For stamps which
have to be cancelled by either a written
SPORTS FIELD
Naked all night the field
breathed its dew until
the great gold ball of day
sprang up from the dark hill.
Now as the children come
the field and they are met.
Their day is measured and marked,
its lanes and tapes are set,
and the children gilt by the sun
shoulder one another,
crouch at the marks to run,
and spring, and run together —-
the children pledged and matched
and built to win or lose,
who grow, while no one watches,
the selves in their sidelong eyes.
The watchers love them in vain.
What’s real here is the field,
the starter’s gun, the lane,
the ball dropped or held;
and set towards the future
they run like running water
for only the pride of winning,
the pain the losers suffer;
till the day’s great golden ball
that no one ever catches,
drops, and at its fall
runners and watchers
pick up their pride and pain
won out of the measured field,
and turn away again
while the star-dewed night comes cold.
So pride and pain are fastened
into the heart’s future,
while naked and perilous
the night and the field glitter.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


or a printed obliteration,” says their
memorandum, “the doubly fugitive inks
are alone reliable.” And they suggested
printing a Unified One Penny Stamp
(combined postage and inland-revenue)
at 2 3/10d. a thousand in fugitive, or
3d. a thousand in doubly fugitive ink.
For other great moments in the firm’s
histoiy the inexpert reviewer can do
little better than to follow a few hints
from the preface. There was the trouble
they had in 1900, for instance, with
the Government expert, Dr. Thorpe,
who discovered that the Prussian-blue
in the new green halfpenny stamp was
accompanied by chromate of lead. The
firm replied that “the oxide of lead in
240 stamps amounts to only about five
milligrammes, which, we submit, can-
not under any conceivable conditions
produce injurious effects.” After a
good deal of argument it was acknow-
ledged that the contract forbade lead
in inks; and while De La Rue refused
to disclose ingredients of all colors used
in stamp-printing, they mentioned that
the new halfpenny-green color under
consideration was a green lake,
Prussian-blue mixed with a derivative
of napthaline. But it would appear
that they had printed 56,160.000 of
the green halfpennies before Dr. Thorpe
objected.
Dr. Thorpe was evidently a bit of a
nark. He followed his little victory
with the claim that he had beaten their
doubly fugitive ink by removing
“Herbert Gore” written across four
penny stamps. De La Rue replied that
Dr. Thorpe had taken an unfair advant-
age of them by being such a brilliant
chemist and having greater resources
than would an ordinary falsifier of
postage-stamps; that if the ink had had
time to oxidise, it would have been
harder to get off; and that in any case
“you can even with the naked eye see
traces of the final ‘t’ of ‘Herbert’ and
the ‘Go’ of ‘Gore’ in the stamps treated
by him.”
In 1886 De La Rue had a complaint
from the Virgin Islands about sheets
of stamps sticking together; they
replied with sad dignity that probably
the tin lining of the case had been
damaged, “when a claim should be
raised against the shipping agents,” but
at last agreed to replace the defective
stamps free of cost. But then Cyprus
complained about an “insufficiency of
gum”; next the Straits Settlements com-
plained that their stamps would not
stick properly. Hong Kong and Barba-
dos began softly to moan, followed by
British Guiana, the Bahamas and
Grenada; “a particularly violent attack
from Jamaica was followed by a com-
plaint from Tobago.” Says Easton: —
To detached observers seventy
t years after the event it would seem
obvious that in some way a defective
supply of gum had been received
from the manufacturers, for which
De La Rue could not be blamed.
But the long series of correspond-
ences and reports in which De La Rue
deny that there is anything wrong with
their stamps is worth reading as a
model for the Complaints Department
of any monopoly; so well do they deny
that anything has happened, and take
precautions that it will not happen
again, that even the Crown Agents,
who had to take all the kicks from
the colonies, know not what to say:—
The Crown Agents, like the farmer,
may have consoled themselves with
the belief that the giraffe was not
true, but De La Rue’s policy of
standing firm had been justified.
The preface also directs attention to
the firm’s long altercation with the
“forceful and spectacular” Commis-
sioner and Consul-General of Central
Africa, Mr. H. H. Johnston, in which,
after he has hectored them and worried
them with demands for new designs,
they write him off (politely but with
full documentation) as a piker trying
to get the best work for half the money;
and, when he “was not prepared to go
to the expense of the two dandy rolls”
for watermarked paper, or to have
letterpress printing or even copperplate
printing, but only lithograph printing,
which “causes a loss of sharpness and
definiteness,” he then was so rude as
to contrast disparagingly the stamps he
got with stamps printed by the full
copperplate process.
Easton’s history is divided into five
parts: England (Inland Revenue),
India, Crown Agents (Colonies),
Imperial (Australia, New Zealand,
Africa, the Far East) and Foreign: and
in each case concludes at the turn of
the century. Its pride (and, it would
seem, the pride of the De La Rues) is
the 48 plates of stamps-that-might-
have-been, a tantalisation for philate-
lists—designs, redesigns, modifications,
for stamps which were never issued.
One would like to say something
about the Australian section of De La
Rue’s activities; but for the unlettered
(or unstamped) reviewer, it is danger-
ous ground; the history is so specialised
that one has to refer to the Australian
Encyclopaedia for background. In New
South Wales, for instance, it seems
that the first stamps were Australian-
designed and -printed, while later
stamps were Australian-printed from
dies struck by Perkins, Bacon and the
De La Rues; even after Federation each
State printed its own until, in 1913,
Commonwealth stamps were first
issued. This helps to explain the incon-
clusion of De La Rue’s State-by-State
history, which, of course, cuts-olf in
1900.
For the rest (i.e., for philatelists) the
book is an account, invoice-by-invoice,
of every stamp issued by the De La
Rues until 1900—every type of stamp,
that is, since Easton restricts himself
to first-printings only. Whether this
book will clarify matters for the stamp-
collector or reduce him to impotence
before an avalanche of statistics and
modifications he had never imagined
existing, remains to be seen. One’s own
feeling is that, as such histories are
multiplied, stamp-collecting will be-
come impossible except to an electronic
brain.
Things Fall Apart: Chinua Achebe
(Heinemann). An interesting first novel,
by a young Western-educated Nigerian,
about tribal life in his country at the
end of the 19th century, on 'the eve of
its collapse before the encroaching
whites—a collapse caused as much by
its own fears and superstitions as by
the cunning of the newcomers. The
central story is about a wealthy and
respected tribesman’s ruin and death
through his own strange mixture of
pride and fear when he is caught
between the pressures of the two ways
of life. But it is not wholly convinc-
ing. at any rate to a non-Nigerian: it
is barely enough to hold the rest
together. The novel’s chief value is in
its engagingly simple and direct descrip-
tion —untainted by primitive “wisdom”
or “dark forces”—of how an ancient
clan society worked and the circum-
stances that destroyed it.
THREE TRUMPET TUNES FOR
A DRY MOUTH
I. Prelude.
By God I am amazed to see
literature survive the schools
or any good thing to be made
with blunt and uncreative tools.
II. Aria
The hard biscuit of criticism munching
or nibbling all the academic year
between the prescribed conferential
lunching
and camaraderie from ear to ear,
“The standard is improving,” I hear tell.
Standard or bush, roses wilt in the hand.
I often wonder what the precious vintners
sell
one half so acid as the vinegar they
demand.
III. Coda
Chipping , jittering, the hand slipped,
chopped through the stuffy gown.
The flesh astonished underneath
trickled bright droplets down.
So in the heart’s desert
blossomed a red
garland for a
sorry parchment head.
S.A.
BRIAN ELLIOT.


Stabilise
Your
Future!
The City Mutual Life offers you
the benefit of expert guidance in the
planning of your financial future. As
a policyholder in this £40,000,000
Society, you will benefit directly
from the remarkable success of the
Society, for the whole of the City
Mutual’s distributable surplus goes
directly to policyholders in the form
of bonuses.
N#
Shareholders
All profits belong to the Policyholders
SAVE INCOME TAX
Don’t pay away in income tax, money that could he
securing the assurance benefits you need. Remejnber,
you can pay up to £3OO yearly in premiums and
deduct it from your income tax return. By this means,
a proportion of your investment in assurance is
actually paid for you.
II
ii
n
mm
m
3*3
!!
11l
II
i
Ii
. ~
M
m
TO MEN OF PROPERTY
Who want their heirs to inherit it
How often do you hear of estates being sold to pay
death duties? It can happen to you. Death duties must
be paid in cash before your heirs can inherit. The City
Mutual Life has a policy To provide this cash so that
your assets go unencumbered to your heirs. For further
information, write, ’phone or call the nearest office of
the Society.
The
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD. ,
Incorporated in N.S.W-. 18 j8
HEAD OFFICES:
Vic.: City Mutual Building, 459 Collins Street, Melbourne
Telephone: MB 2561.
S.A.: City Mutual Building, 118 King William St., Adelaide
Telephone W 7031.
Tas.: City Mutual Building, 22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart
Telephone 2-2504.
