

as the
HOME LIGHTING
BATTERY that's
YEARS AHEAD
Century engineers working closely with leading battery
laboratories in U.S.A. perfected this marvellous homelighting
battery, approved by thousands of users all over Australia as
the finest batterv ever made. It’s NEW IN EVERY DETAIL
—WITH NEW TECHNIQUES—NEW CONSTRUCTION
METHODS—NEW SUPER PERFORMANCE.
LOOK AT THESE DYNAMIC FEATURES.
• SILVIO I—the scientific additive
which KEEPS PLATES ACTIVE
WITH MAXIMUM EFFICIENCY;
ELEVENTH GlilD CORROSION.
ONLY CENTURY HOMELIGHT-
ING BATTERIES CONTAIN
SILVIUM.
• TRANSPARENT POLYSTY-
RENE CONTAINER . . . yon can
see the acid level at a glance.
• INBUILT GRAVITY BALL
INDICATORS . . . show state
of charge AT ALL TIMES,
i No more messy hydrometer.
• GLASS INSULATION gives
sustained power during the
BATTERY’S ENTIRE LIFE.
BACKED BY A BULLET-PROOF
THREE YEARS' GUARANTEE
entur
with SIL.VIUM
FOLLOW THE LEAD OF THOUSANDS OF SATISFIED GRAZIERS
AND STATION OWNERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
DEMAND THE BEST ... BUY THE BEST ... BUY CENTURY!
SILYIUM Batteries are also available for all cars, trucks, tractors, etc.
mm :n Hill
(iiiiiiNvimrj
j-.
<«
Pi
*Htr
I
■J
ms
.. y r
These three gravity ball
indicators white, red
and green—are clearly
visible thiough the trans-
parent polystyrene con-
tainer. Their floating
position shows instantly
the Battery s state of
charge.
AVAILABLE FROM CENTURY BATTERY DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
The Bulletin
CHRISTMAS NUMBER
Wednesday, December 10, 1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


L I B
BOOKS BOUGHT
We visit you in the City and Suburbs
Immediate Cash Payment
Valuations made for Probate
BW 7874
(After Hours JY 1131)
BERKELOUW
114 King Street, (Between Pitt and
Castlereagh Streets), Sydney.
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—Action,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderma
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
A WORD FROM COOK
This reviewer has long thought that
the journals and letters of the great
Australian explorers and of the navi-
gators from Quiros onwards who either
found this continent or got lost in the
attempt should always be available to
the public at.a reasonable price; for
they are full of the most vigorous and
fascinating reading, the flavor of which
must inevitably be lost in a paraphrase,
and it seems a pity to keep them, as to
some extent is the tendency, as a private
preserve for historians.
We have had a useful collection of
extracts from the explorers’ diaries
lately, and now Dr. Grenfell Price’s
The Explorations of Captain James
Cook (Georgian House; by arrange-
ment with the Heritage Press, New
York) does (with reservations) some-
thing the same sort of thing for Cook.
The reservations are, simply, that this
book is rather expensive. It is a replica
of a de luxe edition printed in 1957 for
the members of the Limited Editions
Club of New York, a very sumptuous
affair which was bound in kangaroo-
hide and tapa-cloth from Tonga; and
though here the kangaroo-hide has
been replaced by a brown cloth and
the tapa-cloth by some presumably
local material having a similar effect,
the price is stated at 705., and the
edition, for circulation in Australia and
New Zealand, is limited to 2000 copies.
This, of course, is hardly making the
book available to the general reader:
which is regrettable in itself, and the
more so because, handsome enough
though the book is, with a superb repro-
duction in blue and grey and gold of a
plaque of Cook by Flaxman facing the
title-page, there does not seem any
particularly strong reason for making
it a de luxe edition. The illustrations
by Geoffrey C. Ingleton, apparently
an attempt to copy the style of the old-
fashioned steel-engravings or woodcuts
of the broadsides, lack the naive charm
of the originals and do not replace this
with anything more than a plain
straightforwardness. The map of the
end-papers has not the charm of a
genuine old map. And, incidentally,
though Cook did have some contacts
with the aborigines and, as Dr. Grenfell
Price reminds us, was one of the few
early navigators to say a few words in
their favor, it hardly seems appropriate
to decorate the spine and cover with
motifs from aboriginal mythology, the
significance of which has to be
explained on the dustjacket: the designs
are not nautical enough for Cook, they
do nothing to express the wide range of
his voyages.
Still, the book exists; and is elegant;
and is not, after all, in these astronomi-
cal times, so very highly priced. It is
certainly more accessible than the
immense (and invaluable) four-volume
edition of Cook and Cookiana which
is being prepared for the
Society under the editorship of Dr."
J. C. Beaglehole; and the reader who
is lucky enough to acquire it is assured
of a great deal of magnificent reading
presented (with Dr. Grenfell Price’s
running-commentary) in a singularly
acceptable form.
Out of the vast mass of the available
material, Dr. Price has here selected
“the more important parts of Cook’s
own journals of the three voyages.”
The style of the Hakluyt Society has
been followed in spelling and punctua-
tion, and one is delighted to find that
Cook’s cheerful eccentricity in these
departments has been preserved.
We meet Cook first among the naked
Indians of Tierra Del Fuego, who were
afterwards so greatly to impress Charles
Darwin with their wretched fortitude—
“ Perhaps,” in Cook’s words, “as miser-
able a set of People as are this day upon
Earth.” Then, rounding Cape Horn
with slightly bewildering celerity, he is
at Tahiti observing the transit of Venus,
and much more besides; the beautiful
maidens, of course, and—a point one
had forgotten—the taste of dog: —
For tame Animals they have Hogs
Fowls and Dogs the latter of which
we learnd to eat from them and few
were there of us but what allowe’d
that a South Sea Dog was next to
an English Lamb, one thing in their
favour is that they live intirely upon
Vegetables probably our Dogs would
not eat half so well . . .
These little points that even readers
familiar with Cook’s voyages may have
overlooked or forgotten are, indeed,
one of the chief attractions in reading
these extracts. In New Zealand, for
instance, most people know all about
the first unfortunate contacts with the
Maoris; but how many remember the
empty bottle with which Cook rewarded
some hapless old Maori at Queen
Charlotte Sound, just after he had taken
his country from him? It is a human
touch which Dr. Price has done well to
include: —
After I had thus prepare’d the way
for seting up the post we took it
• up to the highest part of the Island
and after fixing it fast in the ground
hoisted thereon the Union flag and
I dignified this Inlet with the name
of Queen Charlottes Sound and took
formal possession of it and the
adjacent lands in the name and for
the use of his Majesty, we then drank
Her Majestys hilth in a Bottle of
wine and gave the empty bottle to the
old man (who had attended us up the
hill) with which he was highly
pleased.
Similarly when Cook comes to Aus-
tralia. Even if one remembers that he
originally called his landing-place
Stingray Bay, changing it to Botanist
Bay when Banks and Solander came
aboard with their wildflowers, then
afterwards to Botany Bay (that fragrant
name which, one way or another, has
ever since had rather a stench about it);
even if one remembers that there was
some sort of dispute with the two heroic
aborigines who defied them on the
beach, this reviewer at least had for-
gotten that one of these unfortunates
was peppered with small-shot, which,
though it must considerably have sur-
prised him, as some new, mysterious
sort of mosquito, he valiantly ignored:
We then threw them some nails
beeds etc a shore which they took up
and seem’d not ill pleased in so much
that I thout that they beckon’d to
us to come a shore; but in this we
were mistaken, for as soon as we
(i Continued on page 65)
THE DIVER
The diver pausing on the tower
draws in one breath —
the crest of time, the pride, the hour
that answers death—
and down to where the long pool lies
marks out his curve ;
descending light that starlike flies
from air to wave,
as summer falls from trees and eyes,
and youth, and love.
Then from the rocking depths’ release
naked and new,
the headfirst man springs up, and sees
all still to do—
the tower to climb, the pause to make,
the fill of breath
to gather in ; the step to take
from birth to death.
Then you who turn and climb the stair
and stand alone—
with you / draw that breath, and dare ;
time’s worst being known.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


AUSTRALIA'S
MOST COMPLETE TRUCK LINE
New International AA-line Trucks offer 15 basic models in over 100 variations. These are
available in new contemporary colours —by far the most complete range of motor trucks offered
Australian truckmen. The International AA-line Trucks —present the greatest potential for
production and profit ever —are designed and proved from bumper to tail-light to do the heavy
work. There is one to exactly meet your job requirements.
: r -<
m
This rugged versatile
International AA-110 Pick-up is just
one example. If it’s the one that exactly
suits your needs —test-drive it today! The
International AA-110 and AA-120 Pick-ups are
completely new trucks, designed and improved
away ahead of the field to do more and heavier
work. Easy-riding International AA-line Pick-ups
have longer bodies, lower sides, full-width
tail gates.
From bumper
to tail-light, this
International AA-160
Tipper is new. Choice
of three rear axle
types, each in two
wheelbase lengths
—AA-160 single
speed, AA-162 two
speed, AAT-162
tandem axle.
a
1
Medium duty
International AA-130
and AA-148 low-loading
models also have all the new
features—vertical dual headlights,
suspended pedals, curved windscreen, new
power-packed Australian Blue Diamond engines.
See and test-drive these new International AA-line Trucks
at your International Harvester office, or nearest IH Dealer.
International Trucks cost least to own .
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
L
15 BASIC MODELS
7
OVER 100 VARIATIONS!
NEW contemporary colours
FMT-310/36


The Bulletin.
Wednesday, Dec. 10, 1958
Vol. 79—No. 4113
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEaD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; 'Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
SWING FROM THE LEFT
nrHE result of the French elections,
like that of the Australian elec-
tions, seems to be a pointer to the
general drift away from the Left in
the Western world (as distinct from
Asian or African members of the
former British Empire) and a further
indication that those who have firmly
backed Moscow in the Socialist stakes
are on a spavined nag.
Dr. Evatt evidently realised this
when he came back from his trip to
Europe last year. Unfortunately, he
and Mr. Chamberlain had long ago
laid their bets and were in the hands
of those who were making the book.
They no doubt went to the polls realis-
ing that money on Red China, Unity
Ticket and Handout was as good as
lost; but they were committed.
All that seems left to them by way
of consolation is to hold a new “unity
party” in March to con over their mis-
takes and lick each other’s wounds, and
to this the ill-fated M. Duclos, of the
French Communist party, and some of
his Socialist near-relatives who have
been thrown out on their pink (or Red)
ears in France, might appropriately be
invited.
Both the Red Socialists of France
and the Pink Socialists of Australia have
been told anew that extremism,
especially if it is rowdy and revolu-
tionary, is always in democratic
countries followed by sobering reaction.
In Australia it has been most marked
in the regions where the change to the
Left was clearly pronounced. Western
Australia, while it followed the moder-
ate line of Curtin and Chifley—
moderate by comparison with the
Peking - loving, Hobart - conference
Socialism of Chamberlain —was about
as safe for Labor in certain seats as
the Commonwealth Bank. But with
its A.L.P. secretary just home from
Red China and full of praise for the
Mao regime, whose measure he could
have had little chance to assess, it
seems that the only candidate the West
will return to support Labor in Can-
berra will be Kim Beazley. And he is
known to be anti-Evatt, with the
strongest views about the Hobart-con-
ference decisions and the Petrov-com-
mission performance. Even Kalgoorlie,
once solid as rock for Labor, has gone.
In Queensland, Theodore’s old seat,
Herbert, only once won (and that by a
mere quirk of circumstances) by a
supporter of Liberal-party policies, has
turned over. And everywhere there
are signs of the rot in Labor, as there
are in the United Kingdom, where the
hardening of the influence of Aneurin
Bevan, even though he has swung some-
what to the Right, has been con-
temporaneous with a considerable rise
in the popularity of the politic Mac-
millan Government.
In Europe, France’s swift swing-over
to de Gaulle is symptomatic of the
general trend of European politics. The
Italian Communist party has dwindled
and become secondary, after having
threatened at one stage to engulf the
country and turn it over to Moscow.
/The tale is further told by the need
of Moscow to repress with brutality
the Hungarian revolution, the pro-
grammes of discipline in Bulgaria,
Poland, East Germany and Rumania,
and the new brain-washing campaign
of Mao at a point in history when he
had been claiming—and demonstrat-
ing to visiting soft-shells who were not
ashamed to accept his gifts of free
transport and hospitality—that he had
established a lovely and benign
democracy.
Tito still sits on the sidelines, now
and then snapping his fingers in a
north-easterly direction. And with the
example of the Workers’ Paradise next-
door the Soviet Union has failed to
win-over the Finns to Communism,
despite a huge effort.
The French elections hitherto have
been held under the curse of the pro-
portional-representation system, which,
as in Australia, tends to favor forma-
tion of minority or splinter parties and
to make stable Government impos-
sible in a multi-party house. The de
Gaullists replaced it with a typically
French and complicated system of
election by absolute majority involving
two polls.
At the first poll held on November
23, with 20.5 million votes cast out of
27 million in the 465 constituencies,
only 41 candidates were elected out-
right, but the votes cast for the parties
of the Right were about 15 million.
The Communists polled only 18.9 p.c.
of the total vote, against 25.7 p.c. in
1956, the Socialists gained a fraction
of one per cent., and the other Left-of-
centre parties and Left splinter-groups
lost votes, as did the extreme Rightest
Poujadists, whose 13.3 per cent, vote in
1956 dwindled to just over 3 per cent.
Before the second poll 500 candi-
dates were eliminated by the fact that
they had polled less than 5 per cent,
and thus lost their deposits. Many
Socialists stood-down to give the Com-
munists a chance of an ultimate
majority. But, in the result, the
defeat of Communism, which lost
ground even in the Red belt round
Paris, its stronghold in Western Europe,
was decisive. Instead of holding
144 seats, as in the last Assembly,
Moscow’s agents have only 10 in the
new one. The veteran Thorez, who,
while titular leader, has actually been
cover for Duclos (who was defeated),
is now head of the smallest party in
the Assembly, while de Gaulle’s own
Union for the New Republic is
entrenched as the largest, with 188, and
with further backing which gives him
a substantive majority of 378 to 87.
In Algeria, where the polling took place
later, the victory was equally over-
whelming in his favor.
The result must affect the balance
of world politics very decidedly. It
weakens the influence of the United
States in Europe. It will spur Moscow
to a greater and more determined effort
to oust the Allies from German
occupation-zones and to a firmer line
with countries abutting French terri-
tory. De Gaulle’s initial victories,
indeed, have been already followed by
more extensive Russian propaganda in
Africa and the Middle East and greater
efforts to attach the Arab zone, the
only area in which they are not at
present losing influence and strength
abroad, to the Soviet bloc.
It is significant that de Gaulle’s first
move directly after the first poll which
indicated the extent of the landslide in
his favor was to make a one-day visit
to Germany for trade discussions with
Dr. Adenauer.
As President, he will be a tower of
strength in Western Europe, though not
easy to handle, since his main policy is
not to strengthen Western Europe
against Communism but to restore
France to her former glory.
IN THIS ISSUE
Page
Red Page 2, 65, 66, 67
Swing from the Left . . . • .. .. 4
Scorfield’s Cartoon . . . . . . . . 5
Plain English . . . . . . >. 6, 7
Wilkins in the Arctic. . . . . . . . 11
“A View from Fern Hill” . . . . • . 14
Heth’s page . . ..19
“Time Means Tucker” 21
Finance and Economics,
22, 23, 24, 29, 30, 31, 32 and 53
“Presents” .. .. 34
“Airborne Eccentrics” ... .. .. 36
Placing the Blame 59


BACK TO HUMANITY?
“I hope you fellows have solved the problem of re-entry into the earth’s atmosphere!”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Give Us Your Policy— Water
[From “Stromlo”]
It was ingenious of Professor C. H.
Munro to describe his address to a
symposium of mechanical - engineers at
the University of N.S.W. two days before
tire Federal election as a hypothetical
“policy-speech.” It would be an admir-
able idea for the Prime Minister (who
is an honorary doctor of the same uni-
versity) and all his Ministers to read the
address, and to make it compulsory
reading for all members of Parliament,
State and Federal.
Professor Munro wondered what suc-
cess would attend a party-leader who
went to the country with the main plank
of. his platform “a water policy for the
Australian people,” and went on to
elaborate the theme that while he might
lose his deposit, there was no question
of the urgent and vital need implied for
this largely arid continent. He stressed
the need of a rallying-cry for action,
including an expert study of all Austra-
lian data, and of “the comprehensive
national picture, without regard to State
boundaries.”
This should be done, he suggested, by
a strongly equipped Bureau of Water
Resources. As an example of the sort
of problem to be tackled, he asked what
priority should be given to development
in the Ord-Victoria region of north-west
Australia in comparison with various
schemes for the east coast, and he added
(almost as a politician on the hustings
might have done) that from the point of
view of world politics it was clearly
desirable to announce some dramatic
action in the . far north-west, although it
would be useless to rush ahead on an
emotional basis.
The professor’s “policy” was thought-
out with more cogency than some of the
political ones. He believes that there
should be autonomous authorities for all
river-basins chosen by his suggested
bureau for development, to be responsible
for detailed design and construction of
all local aspects of water-development —*
hydro-power, town water-supply, the
reticulation as well as the supply of irriga-
tion water, sub-surface supplies, flood-
mitigation, and water-conservation and
forestry.
This platform was given with many
additional suggestions, including univer-
sity-research and the use of Federal funds
to subsidise the hydraulic research-station
of his own university. The training of
engineers in hydraulics, the subsidising
of post-graduate scholarships, and the
possible use of defence engineers were
all discussed —and there was a dry
refusal to be drawn into any controversy
concerning the local Sydney scene.
These are ideas which must be
examined if development of Australia and
the expansion of a national economy
already retarded by the scarcity of water
in so many areas are to be effective.
Professor Munro deserves an attentive
audience in Canberra, and if he doesn’t
get it, then he should stump the country
with his “policy.” He might get much
more support than he expects.
Co-operation—and Chaos
The atmosphere surrounding the dis-
missal of 114 men from Lysaght’s works
in Newcastle shows the difference between
Communist methods and non-Communist
methods.
It is easy to imagine what would have
happened had any firm dismissed 114
men, no matter what the circumstances,
or how long the notice, if the union had
been under Communist leadership.
Lysaghts warned mill-workers some
months ago that they would have to
dismiss 250 men before Christmas. The
Ironworkers are not under Communist
control. They saw that the dismissals
were inevitable. So they settled down to
co-operate with the company to make the
blow as light as possible for everybody.
They suggested'that the company take on
no new men after March last and absorb
as many redundant workers as possible.
The company readily agreed, as it did
to other suggestions.
The result is that only 114 men are
being put off instead of the expected 250.
The union has expressed its appreciation
of the company’s action and has
announced that there would be new jobs
for the surplus men within a month.
This sort of co-operation is a hopeful
sign. And it pays everybody. By con-
trast it is horrible to watch the slow
destruction of shipping and wharf
employment under a Communist control
without bowels of compassion and which
looks on men merely as pawns to be
used in playing Moscow’s game of
sabotage of Western economies.
Australia and Canada
It is a pity that the visit of Mr. Diefen-
baker has not been longer and that, in
any case, visits from Canadian Ministers
are not more frequent.
Australian Ministers and businessmen
go more often to Canada than Canadians
come to us. Yet there is direct and
excellent communication both by air and
sea, and each country has a potential for
a far greater exchange of trade.
Moreover, the reversal of seasons in
the two countries should make it possible
for the development of a tourist traffic,
though Canadians seem too busy a people
to devote themselves to tourism to the
same extent as some others.
Canada is an example of unspectacular
industry which, by the application of
business principles to Government,
achieves huge public works like the St.
Lawrence waterway and the Kitimat alu-
minium scheme in private enterprise
almost unnoticed by the outside world.
Its politics can be fiery in some regions,
but, generally speaking, whether Liberal
or Conservative Administration is in
office, its Government has a solidity
denied to most others.
Governments in Canada have the
advantage that once they are in office
they have a strong national support and
are not, as in Australia, compelled to
make every issue with which they deai
a party one. In Australia, if Mr.
Menzies were to pass a law awarding
every member of the Shadow Cabinet a
golden crown and a purse of real
sovereigns, the Opposition would oppose
the measure bitterly, though it would
not prevent it from taking the benefits
when the bill was passed. In Canada
the Parliamentary spirit, though critical,
is different, and the country is merely
threatened occasionally with the exchange
of one party with business principles for
another with slightly different business
principles and ideas as to foreign affairs.
Mr. Diefenbaker, in Australia, has
preached the unity of the British Com-
monwealth. It seems an advantageous
time to place relations between Australia
and Canada on a closer foundation. The
Governments of both countries are newly
in office with reasonably long terms to
run and with the same sort of interlock-
ing problems regarding disposal of pri-
mary products.
They have everything to gain by close
and regular liaison and continuous recog-
nition of each other’s existence on each
side of the Pacific Ocean and common
problems of survival.
Shooting the Moon
Although the latest American attempt to
put a rocket on or near the moon didn’t
succeed, it cannot be dismissed as a mere
failure. The rocket was the first fired by
the U.S. Army, now given its turn after
three Air Force attempts to girdle the
moon. One of the Air Force rockets,
fired on October 11, journeyed 71,300
miles into space before reluctantly turning
its head for home. The Army’s rocket,
fired on Saturday, turned back after 66,654
miles and burnt itself up over West Africa
on Monday morning—a rather fantastic
lost-weekend.
The weekend was, of course, far from
lost so far as the team of scientists at
Cape Canaveral was concerned. Taken
in conjunction with the results of the
U.S. Air Force’s October rocket, the data
collected during Pioneer Ill’s flight make
it almost certain that the problem of
giving a rocket sufficient velocity to enable
it to escape from the earth’s pull will
shortly be solved. The missile reached a
top speed of 24,060 miles an hour, only
840 m.p.h. less than the 24,900 m.p.h.
needed to break it loose from Mother
Earth’s apron-strings. It should be no
great task to give the next messenger the
little extra kick in the tail this one lacked.
The second point of failure was in
direction. Pioneer 111 is reported to have
been three degrees off its intended course.
The layman may wonder how on earth
(or off it) anyone could possibly get such
a projectile as close as three degrees to its
course, but when it comes to shooting the
moon a miss is as good as several
thousand miles. However, if it is true
that the Air Force rocket was also three
degrees off course, it would seem the


error is something capable of early
explanation and correction.
In contrast with Russian space-probers,
the U.S. scientists have given full pub-
licity to all their failures. Moscow only
reports its successes. The Cape Canaveral
team is working to - a planned schedule of
further shots at the moon. Without wish-
ing that orb any harm, here’s hoping the
next one will be on the target.
Narking Bolte
Sir Herbert Hyland has now been
responsible, for the second time in a
year, for the defeat of the Bolte Govern-
ment’s bread-reform bill.
The Country party, which Sir Herbert
Hyland leads in the State Parliament, has
joined forces again with the Labor party
to defeat the Government in the Legis-
lative Council on vital amendments.
The Government refused to accept a
reduction in the size of the bread-industry
committee (for which the bill provided)
from nine to seven by eliminating two
of the four consumer-representatives, and
also would not delete a clause permitting
one-man bakers to bake in unrestricted
hours except on Sundays.
Over the years in the Victorian Parlia-
ment the Country and Labor parties have
shown a marked reluctance to give more
than the barest representation to repre-
sentatives of consumers on the various
boards they have appointed ; the Govern-
ment’s acceptance of this amendment
would have left the bread industry where
it is today—in the hands of the bakers
and their employees.
The Country party’s vote against per-
mitting one-man bakers to work when-
ever they wish is a strange stand for a
party reputedly a protagonist of indi-
vidual enterprise, and could be quite as
justly imposed on their rural supporters
who find it necessary to work not within
statutory hours but when the circum-
stances suit them best.
The Labor party’s opposition to the
reforms proposed in the bread bill is
open ; its members vote frankly to sup-
port the virtual monopolies of the bakers,
without a thought for the people’s bread,
because they will, in turn, protect the
cosy conditions of the bread-union’s
members.
Sir Herbert’s party’s link with the bread
industry is, however, unexplained, other
than by the mischievous, or cantankerous,
role played by their leader since Bolte
formed a Ministry without his assistance
or presence.
In the last few weeks the Government
has suffered seven important reverses in
the Council by the combination of the
Country and Labor parties, chiefly on the
hire-purchase bill, which would have
given hirers added protection.
Bolte has .refused to accept an amend-
ment arbitrarily limiting interest on the
ground that competition between the
companies will determine this, as it does
m other money-markets; additionally,
I there is no certain guide to what will
, happen to interest-rates in the future, or
how they will fluctuate.
Since the Government had made it
quite clear that a ceiling on interest-rates
wouldn’t be incorporated in the bill, it is
obvious the Opposition parties have
chosen to wreck it rather than to help
implement the safeguards in it for hirers,
indicating just how sincere is Mr. John
Galbally, the Labor leader in the Council,
the most persistent critic in Victoria of
the present hire-purchase business.
Banned Brendan Behan
[From John Abernethy]
At 16 Brendan Behan was arrested in
Liverpool with a suitcase full of I.R.A.
terrorist equipment. He was sentenced to
three' years in a Borstal institution.
Borstcd Boy is a record of these ex-
periences. Hutchinson, its publishers,
submitted a copy to the Commonwealth
Literature Censorship Board, to test its
eligibility in Australia, and the board
banned it. Hutchinsons appealed against
the ban; and the Commonwealth
Appeals Censor, Dr. L. H. Allen, was still
considering the appeal when this issue
went to press.
The trouble apparently sprang from
the author’s habit of using all the old
four-letter words not only in dialogue
but sometimes as part of his narrative
prose. Ordinarily this kind of writing
makes balanced criticism very difficult.
Suspecting the author of crude exhibi-
tionism, one’s first reaction is an un-
willingness to be impressed—especially
when, as here, the subject is a hardy
annual among the paperback shockers.
On the other hand, one doesn’t want to
be on the side of the wowsers.
Borstal Boy, however, quickly clears
these hurdles. The bawdiness, and there
is a fair bit of it, springs so naturally
out of the situations and characters that
it soon stops drawing much attention.
What is more striking about the book is
the almost complete absence of indigna-
tion, anger or intent to shock. It is,
in fact, a prison comedy—though Behan’s
Borstal is more like a tough school than
a real prison.
The humiliations, the little triumphs
over tobacco, food and newspapers ; the
fights, the singing, the swearing, the ser-
mons ; the wordless affections that grow-
up between this boy and that; the
endless conversations about warders, each
other and sex —all are recorded with an
unusual mixture of tenderness, tough-
ness and a keen comic sense.
At the end of it all you feel that you
really know these boys, not as “characters”
but in the way they knew each other in
their situation as prisoners. This seems
to be the chief value of the book, and it
is a considerable one.
It is not, of course, without faults. The
writing is too often as loose and careless
as it looks, and the author tends to over-
play the wild Irish boy (sometimes with a
fine sense of his own absurdity, sometimes
without); but at its best it has the flavor
of originality and truth, and it would be
a great pity if Australians were deprived
of it.
Labor's New Disasters
The election in the final count assured
the Menzies Government of an increased
majority in the House of Representa-
tives. It lost only St. George and Braddon
by narrow margins, but this is more than
compensated for by the devastating blow
which Labor received in W.A. and in
Queensland, where the Government
almost swept the board, taking Kal-
goorlie—a pretty good indication of the
trend of the New Australian vote—which
Labor had held for 36 years, and Herbert,
in North Queensland, which had only
once been won by a Liberal —by Dr.
Nott from E. G. Theodore.
The Government has a majority in
the Senate from the beginning. Colin
McKellar is in sixth place in N.S.W.;
and becomes entitled to sit straight away,
thus giving the Government 31 seats to
29 immediately, which should enable it
to advance its plans for banking and
other legislation.
Its path ahead is not without obstacles.
When this was written the members of
the new Ministry had not been
announced, but the forecasts made
indicate (if they were correct, which is
not to be taken as a matter of course)
that “State rights” rather than ability or
fitness for the job would be the guiding
factor.
The changes will leave a strong team
chafing on the back benches while their
inferiors in ability and drive take the
plums, if the prophecies of the daily
press have any substance. It seems a
waste of good material.
The coming man in the Ministry, pro-
vided, of course, that he adapts himself
to Ministerial politics, should be Sir
Garfield Barwick. The Government,
whatever its weaknesses, has a decisive
advantage over the Opposition which is
paying not only for Dr. Evatt’s mistakes
during the election campaign and before,
but for his colossal blunders afterwards.
These have set the leadership—Mr.
Chamberlain, the Federal president, has
proved himself as skilful in making
enemies for the party as his maladroit
leader —at loggerheads permanently with
a section of the Catholic Church and
destroyed any hope of compromise with
the D.L.P. and Q.L.P., beside almost
assuring the defeat of the Cahill Govern-
ment, if the N.S.W. State Opposition will
show a little more nous than it is doing
at present.
The more political-minded old stagers
of the A.L.P. had begun, after the polls,
to work-out a master-plan for keeping
Dr. Evatt in the leadership, not because
they liked him any more, but because
they thought he might prove to be a
secret weapon and rehabilitate himself
in a referendum campaign on reform
of the Commonwealth Constitution.
They felt that if this could be done
and the Leftist tendencies of the party
masked in the meantime it might well
pave the way to a victory at the next
election.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
A ccording to George Duncan, manager
of David Jones’ Gallery, Sydney, the
recent exhibition of Norman Lindsay’s
complete etchings was the most successful
the gallery has known for years. The
only comparable show, for the amount of
public interest aroused, was Dobell’s
exhibition during the Royal visit. Attend-
ance at Norman’s show was over 2000 a
day, and the exhibition had to be kept
open several days longer than was
planned, to meet the public demand.
Sales were also exceptionally good,
amounting to many more, in fact, than
are usually sold at the big exhibitions of
the art-societies, let alone at one-man
shows. George Duncan says that one
thing that surprised him was the number
of young people who came to see it.
*t 4 ■»£♦
“Nunk”: Sydney’s most dramatic
fapade, Qantas, beginning Elizabeth
Street with a flourish of curved glass,
has had a Christmas-tree outlined on it,
top to bottom, in strings of electric
lights, with huge silver stars to fill up
the spaces. You could call it a striking
effect, except that airlines are a bit
jumpy about such effects these days.
♦> ♦> *
“Quicky”: Nothing like getting in
early! Newspaper advertisement by Mel-
bourne hotel: “Avoid The Xmas Rush —
Drink Now!”
*j« ♦>
“Augustus”: They had their standards
in 1876, too (B. 26/11 / ’5B). An advertise-
ment from the “Newcastle Morning
Herald” of that year: “Well-washed,
Well-behaved, Intelligent boy wanted to
sell papers. Must wear boots.”
“To me, spaghetti without salt is nothing.”
“Beam”: Staying with friends, she
wanted something from home, a very
outer suburb, and rang father to ask
him to bring the parcel in on his way
to work. But father worked halfway
to the city; daughter Worked in the
city ; so did her friend. Friend’s mother
wouldn’t be home that day. Inspiration
dawned. “Leave it under the back seat
of the church,” she said ; “that’s always
open, and I’ll collect it tonight.” She
did, too.
❖ ❖ ♦?
“Thew”: A press report mentions that
a London “charm bureau” will advise
housewives how to be “gracious, gor-
geous and groomed”—all for Is. 9d. a
minute! One item on the curriculum is
the correct way to rush from the bath to
the telephone with your bath-towel draped
in a really elegant manner. As the wife
of a doctor and daughter of a doctor, 1
feel that I should pass that subject with
honors, or, indeed, give instruction in it.
A sketchbook of the many charming and
different ways to drape the bath-towel
with Parisian chic while holding the
telephone and recording the patient’s
message would make an ideal wedding-
gift for the bride of any young doctor.
❖ ❖ ❖
“0.W.W.”: New Zealand teenagers
love N.Z. rock-roller Johnny Devlin.
Raetihi-born, this 20-year-old sells 10
of his rock-records to one of Presley’s
on the N.Z. market, and earns £165 a
week —highest money ever to a Maori-
lander never out of the country.
“1.C.5.”: At Mudgee Legacy, one
of our widows now living in
Sydney has won a trip around the
world for “self and friend.” However,
in reply to our congratulations, we find
the trip is for sale —any takers? And a
widow sent for a holiday to
War Veterans’ Home is return-
ing as a cook! Our joint picnic
with Lithgow was an outstand-
ing success ; we had no trouble
with lost personnel. The
Marshal, before leaving
Mudgee, counted heads and, on
finding two more than there
should be, said, “Let’s go
everyone is here.” Fortunately
that didn’t happen for the
return journey. The First
Annual Fleece Show was
opened by Prof. McMahon,
of the University of N.S.W.,
who said, “I don't know of
anywhere in the world where
you would see so much first-
class wool in one place at the
one time.” Naturally, after that
it was a success. Nearly 200
fleeces displayed -5 bales in
all, plus 9 fleeces sold to the
R.A.S. Western Districts ex-
hibit. Legacy Golf Day
attracted a big field, despite the
heat-wave, which made things
very unpleasant for the Torchies
slaving in the kitchen.
“P.0.M.C.”: A fiery red-head now fast
greying, I am regarded in the office where
I’m the most senior member as an ash-
blonde! Would this indignity be unique
to myself, or is there any other male
copper-top extant so irreverently desig-
nated ?
A A *♦«
V V V
“Sunray”: She was selling buttons on
a windy corner, and while she held the
button in one hand and counted change
with the other, the wind got under her
lrock and blew it up round her waist.
The view was appreciated by the men
going by, but a kind lass paused, pulled
down the offending skirt, grinned sisterly,
and went on her way.
THE EMPTY ROUND
“The British Institute of Directors’ publica-
tibn, Health Problems of Directors, condemns
the cocktail-party (because large quantities of
strong drink are taken on an empty stomach
and meals are missed) as ‘a diabolical
institution." ”
The surf of cocktail-parties looms
In sherried ranks in smoke-filled rooms,
Engulfing half the city’s throats
That bubble back with cliche-quotes:
“Drinking gin . . .?”
“Asparagus . . .?’’
“You’re getting thin . .
“Well, here’s to us.’’
Home to sleep it off and snore ;
Tomorrow evening there'll be more —
Such as those less-formal shows:
The whole town comes, and no one goes;
Ulcers under belt and pinny
Fed with whisky and martini:
“Love me, sweet . . .?”
“Love you, you heel!”
“I feel dead-beat . . .”
“I need a meal . .
Men and maidens neck in corners ;
Husbands rage at bold suborners.
Pity those who in all seasons
Must attend for business reasons !
Sleep and peace and health are lost —•
The cocktail-party is the most
Dismal frolic;
Melancholic,
A nti-systolic,
Diabolic
Institution under the sun —
Until next time you’re asked to one.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Presenting myself for an inter-
view at the A.B.C.’s King’s Cross
(Sydney) studio to see if I might qualify
as an “apprentice conductor” (three
vacancies) it was mildly alarming to
observe the liberties taken with the word
“interview.” You’d probably think, as
I did, that it would be something after
the style of a pleasant chat on music
"Let's go back to our old fishin-ground, Bert — there's only standin'-room here."
in general. Oh, no! First, Dr. Malko,
the Sydney orchestra’s conductor, wanted
a bit of solo piano-playing: I improvised.
“No, no, a composer!” I played a con-
temporary English composer. Still he
seemed unsatisfied. What with sight-
reading operatic overtures, trying to
identify orchestral themes played by Dr.
Malko on the piano and submitting
myself to the torture of singing notes as
quickly as he gave them, it was a pretty
energetic 20 minutes. The climax was
when Dr. Malko, at the piano, said:
“Now, stand over there; you must
imagine I am the orchestra. Here is the
beat.” And he started playing chords.
I couldn’t help feeling, as my arms
waved in time (I hope) to the music, that
I was one of the very few who had
conducted an international conductor. —
“Terzi Tuoni.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Kelms”: Couple of years ago, proof-
reading a menu for a Scottish dinner,
after the item, “champagne,” I struck the
Anglo-Gaeiic remark, “Av course a’ can
tak’ the bubbly jock”; and from that I
deduced that “bubbly jock” was the
effervescent product of the vine. Recently
I read another, rather similar, menu on
which the chef included, “Sonsie roastit
bubbly jock wi’ tatties,” etc., and I ques-
tioned it. Turned out bubbly jock is
turkey-cock ; and the term may be as apt
as our “turkey gobbler.”
“Glen Park”: Further to this king-
size craze, our garage is offering a king-
size guarantee with every car sold, plus
a king-size turkey with every car sold
before Christmas.
“L. 8.5.”: A word of warning to
tourists, be they millionaires or mere
£50,000-a-year company-directors: don’t
criticise N.Z. hotels until well clear of
the country. The wrathful reaction of a
people generally deemed to be friendly,
easygoing, contented, even smug, will
astound you. Be wise and stick to safe
subjects like politics, racing and juvenile
delinquency.
❖ ❖
“W.P.T.”: Didn’t know that there were
different shades of white until I read an
advertisement for modern undies. They
may be had in gardenia-white, model-
white, angel-white and pure-white. In
addition you can have angel-blue or ice-
blue, devil-black or panther-black.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Wusslean”: Announcing plans to
recruit women detectives for the Queens-
land Police Force, the Police Commis-
sioner is reported as saying that women’s
curiosity would be an asset in detection
work. And, indeed, you can be on
nodding terms with a man in the same
street for 10 years and still know only
that his name’s Bill Smith and that he’s
something in the public service. But if
a new family comes to the street, your
wife knows within 24 hours how many
children they have, why the sister-in-law
lives with them, what they paid for the
place, whether they have a floor-polisher,
and where the woman gets her hats —or
if she doesn’t, she knows it’s a guilty
conspiracy to stop her finding out.
+♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Mugga Way”: Travellers who have
suffered from the caprices of the Eng-
lish Channel will be pleased to learn that
a pneumatic breakwater has been installed
at the entrance to Dover which pumps
bubbles up from the seabed. The experts
say the bubbles create “a state of dis-
order against which the harmonic motion
of oncoming waves is distorted and con-
verted into energy of random turbulence.”
So nice to think that any seasickness
induced by random turbulence will be
merely random seasickness.
❖ *X* *l*
“Jeyles”: Suit-length shrewdies (B.
19/11/’58)? On the Singapore-Sandakan
coastal steamer with me travelled two
presentable young Englishmen who, in
that territory where everybody’s occupa-
tion is known, were a mystery because
their business was not. Next morning I
saw through the window of my Sandakan
office the native population gawking at
these two Englishmen rigged-out in
tattered seamen’s clobber which, despite
the temperature, included heavy turtle-
neck guernseys lettered largely across the
chest “Orient Line.” They were bent
under packs of suiting-material planned
to be sold by persuasive hints about its
attractively illicit origins. The entire
British community (90-odd) knew of the
shennanigan via the blower 10 minutes
after the masqueraders had cleared their


stock-in-trade through H.M. Customs,
and those who were not amused thought
that this peddling blow at the white man’s
prestige should by prohibition have been
countered at the Customs wharf. The
potential native customers were so
intrigued by the two poor white men in
worn-out clothes that they were not fit
to be hypnotised into desire for blue-
serge suits ; there was also a business-
obstructing clutter of 100 small boys who
kept on explaining that these were really
two white sailors. By noon the go-getters,
bathed in perspiration and not a yard
sold, gave it away and returned to their
ship. Their retinue of small boys
occupied the wharf and was soon
“Down the hatch, Mona, then We'd better get cracking on this
confounded masterpiece."
rewarded by seeing the “two poor white
sailors” lounging luxuriously on the
first-class deck, wearing immaculate
flannels and corresponding shoes, and
quaffing king-sized gin-slings.
❖ ❖ ❖
“0.W.W.”: A friend of mine is so
annoyed about his wife’s ponytail hair-
do that he says he’s going to grow a
goatee-beard. “I may as well look as
silly in front as she does behind,” he
says.
❖ ♦♦♦ *t*
“Nunk”: I am covered in shame for
imagining (it must have been the Reisling
with the lobster) that it was Mrs., not
Miss, Marien Dreyer who was given her
prize at the prizegiving luncheon at
Sydney Journalists’ Club. In sticking to
her father’s name for her writing, Miss
Dreyer is the only one to carry on a
name famous in Australian journalism,
that of Joseph Dreyer, of Melbourne
“Age” and Perth “West Australian,”
whom The Bulletin christened “Treacle
Joe,” because he was among the first and
most prominent advocates of feeding
molasses to cattle. The two sons of his
first marriage were drowned about 18
months before his death in 1916, and
Miss Dreyer’s brother died in 1919, so
that there is more than ordinary affec-
tion in her carrying on the name.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Tock Emma”: Do women —and men
—have themselves weighed to know the
worst, or to see what effect some
slimming diet is having? On one Sydney
station ramp there’s a jockey - scale
attended by an elderly man who
assures me that his weekly bag, at 3d.
a head, is 3000, which works out at
£37 10s. a week—a tidy figure, indeed ;
and mostly because of the mass-produc-
tion of mass-reduction.
»;♦ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Piketrailer” (Bahrein): It’s about
time some of these TV-programmes got
the bird: When a housewife of Notting-
hamshire switched-on the lights, she
found an owl, 2ft. high and with its
wings singed from coming down the
chimney, staring fixedly at the television.
It was still watching with absorbed dead-
pan interest two programmes later when
the district Bobby gently but firmly re-
moved it.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Dorian”: Deciding to join a record-
club, thereby getting substantial dis-
counts on recordings besides being in
the running for “bonus” disks, I
approached a club-member for details.
He very kindly supplied me with a neat
little application for membership, com-
plete with a postage-free envelope. All
I needed was a six-bob postal-note; my
introductory record would then come
winging through the mail ... a few days
later it arrived, along with a lot of
glossily printed matter. I read of what
the club was doing, what disks were on
offer, etc., before pouncing on a superb
certificate, all fancy scrollwork and em-
bossed title, with my name typed in the
centre. The legend described me as a
“founder - member.” I’m proud and
happy to have helped found and swell
the ranks of the club, and the certificate
is handsome enough to be framed. It
certainly leaves my hard-earned piano-
certificates, which I’d thought the last
word in printed elegance, for dead.
“Ceg.”: Chipping-in towards the cost
of a wreath (B. 26 /11 / ’5B) reminded me
of a friend who was thinking of joining
a bowling-club in the Melbourne area.
The greens were convenient, the annual
sub. not unreasonable, and the members
a nice lot. But he was dissuaded from
joining because he was told that the club
had a preponderance of fairly ancient
members, and the regular demands for
donations towards wreaths amounted,
over the year, to quite a considerable
sum. Whether he joined a football-club
instead, history doesn’t relate.
SPACE RATES
“Interplanetary travel has moved spectacularly
from the possible-future to the imminent, and
it is likely to follow the usual pattern of
transport development as it becomes estab-
lished.” —Science magazine.
You’ll find that private enterprise
Will be encouraged to fertilise
The seed of pioneering.
Then, when the first space-ship is manned,
The politicians'll be on hand
To lead the hearty cheering.
Soon flights in super-comfort cars
Will carry passengers to Mars,
While schedule-times maintaining.
And, it’s a bank-note to a bun
That from the service they will run
Good profits they’ll be gaining.
The politicians, growing alarmed,
Will feel by this they’re being harmed;
“Exploiters,” they will yap on,
Then seize on this as an excuse
To squeeze some needed revenue-juice;
So “space-mile” tax they’ll slap on.
And when the companies still can click
(Despite this solid backside-kick )
And browse in fiscal clover,
Parliament then will legislate
So that the always-near-broke State
Can take the service over.
High overhead will be incurred
As Members’ relatives by the herd
Are made tin-pannikin bosses.
The Space Department then will vie
With railway, bus and tram to fly
The flag of greatest losses.
The hens will soon lob home to roost;
Comforts will have to be reduced.
First of these irritations,
They’ll rip the best seats out, of course,
Then paying-passengers will perforce
Strap-hang to destinations.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Pioneer of the Polar Air —
Wilkins in the Arctic
By "GEEP"
The pioneering work of Sir Hubert
Wilkins in Arctic skies is worth
a place all to itself in the history-
books.
In 1926, 38-year-old South Australian
George Hubert Wilkins was already a
thoroughly competent polar explorer. He
had shared many Arctic sledging-journeys
with the Canadian Stefansson.
He had, as well, retained the interest
in aviation which had grown from his
service with the Australian Flying Corps
in World War I, and had in addition
a strong faith in the possibilities of long-
range weather forecasts resulting from
meteorological observations in polar
regions.
Combining these enthusiasms, he
aimed first to use the plane to explore
Arctic wastes, with the object of setting-
up and maintaining meteorological
bases, then using these bases to provide
the reliable weather information neces-
sary to establish regular air-routes.
his first flight in 1926 he succeeded
only in ferrying supplies from Fair-
banks, in Alaska, to Point Barrow, a
settlement on the north coast of Alaska,
some 1000 miles from the Pole.
Wilkins’s aim was not the Pole itself.
He hoped to find land suitable for bases,
and, above all, to demonstrate that land-
ings could be made safely on the polar
ice. Nearly all previous authorities had
maintained that weather and ice would
make this impossible. Even Byrd and
Amundsen, who in 1926 had made
separate flights over the Pole, were of
the opinion that lanaings were imprac-
ticable.
Then, in 1927, Wilkins, with one com-
panion, took-off from Point Barrow, flew
north-west for 500 miles, and made a
deliberate landing on the ice. He took-off
again, and after a further 100 miles was
forced down with engine-trouble, again
making a successful landing. Repairs
effected, he headed back for Alaska, but
was forced to come down once more
through petrol-shortage, when still 90
miles from land. He and his companion
spent five storm-bound days in the plane,
then walked ashore with little trouble and
less publicity.
'lTGilk.ins, however, had not reached the
Pole. It was a period when spec-
tacular flights were in demand, and his
efforts were classed as failures by press
and public alike. The fact that he had
never aimed at the Pole was disregarded,
as was the undoubted merit of his
exploratory work and the significance of
his ice-landings.
His prestige was at its lowest; he
could not raise the money for further
expeditions. But he had assets —of a
sort. He owned two wrecked Fokker
planes. To raise funds he sold them to
a chap named Kingsford Smith, and
from the two wrecks “Smithy” produced
one good plane. As the Southern Cross,
this machine was destined to make avia-
tion history, though over more friendly
oceans than the Arctic.
Financial again, Wilkins was able to
organise his famous 1928 flight. He flew
“George Wilkins (alias ‘Sir Hubert’ these days),” said
The Bulletin caption when Mahony made this sketch.
Wilkins was then heading south.
from Point Barrow, in Alaska, right
across the Arctic Ocean to Spitzbergen.
In order to cover as much unexplored
territory as possible he bypassed the Pole
by several hundred miles.
It was this flight, uneventful compared
with the one of the previous year, that
brought him v/orld fame and a knight-
hood.
'T'hen a period during which he turned
his attention to the Antarctic, and
for a time abandoned the plane for the
submarine, but 1937 saw him back in
the air again—and back over the Arctic.
His flights this time, however, were not
the result of long-range planning. The
Russians had sent a heavily loaded
freight-plane on an experimental flight
from Moscow to California, via the
North Pole. Distress-signals were heard
from the plane when it was over the
very centre of the polar ice-cap. Then
silence.
Moscow asked that
a search be orga-
nised in America to
cover the Canadian
sector of the Arctic.
Wilkins undertook
the job.
Within eight days,
starting from
scratch, he was fly-
ing over the area
indicated in the last
message from the
lost plane. This area
was more than 1000
miles north of his
base in Canada. He
made many flights
during the remain-
ing summer months,
his mileage over the
Arctic Ocean far
surpassing that of
any previous flyer.
In the autumn he re-
turned to the U.S.,
obtained a more
suitable plane, and
continued his search
during the moonlit
winter night.
He was assisted by
a team of meteorolo-
gists stationed at
Point Barrow. These
scientists correlated
reports from
Russian, American
and Norwegian
observatories, including the floating one
then just established by the Russians on
the polar ice. But no trace of the missing
plane was ever found.
Wilkins, however, accumulated an
enormous amount of valuable data con-
cerning navigation, seasonal flying-
conditions and, above all, weather fore-
casting. In thus going after this basic
information, obtainable only the hard
way, he was the real pioneer of today’s
commercial trans-polar air-services.


POLITICAL POINTS
Final counting for the House of Repre-
sentatives gave the Government 77 seats
(Liberals, 58 ; Country party, 19) and
Labor 45. This was a gain of two seats
for the Government, but to bring about
this simple result nine seats changed their
party allegiance.
The Liberals lost two seats, St. George
(N.S.W.) and Braddon (Tas.) to Labor
and two, Indi (Vic.) and Wimmera (Vic.),
to the Country party ; they won four seats
from Labor —Griffith and Herbert (Q.)
and Stirling and Kalgoorlie (W.A.) —
and one, Moore (W.A.), from the Country
party.
• •
Distribution of preferences in the
doubtful seats provided some very close
finishes. The Government won Griffith
by 52 votes, Kalgoorlie by 179, Stirling
by 213 and Maribyrnong by 693. Labor’s
narrowest wins were St. George, 61 ;
Barton, 264 ; Bendigo, 266 ; Braddon,
286 and Brisbane 504.
• •
Party-leaders are seldom the best poll
tipsters. However gloomy they feel about
their chances they still have to show a
bold front when asked for their final
message on the eve of the poll. For
this reason neither Dr. Evatt, who pre-
dicted a landslide to Labor, nor his
deputy, Arthur Calwell, who foretold a
sweeping Labor victory, can be awarded
the putty medal for the most inaccurate
forecast. No award will, in fact, be made,
but honorable mentions should go to
the radio commentator who told his
listeners that, “Gallup poll or no Gallup
poll,” he would confidently predict that
the election would be the closest con-
test for many years ; also to the “Can-
berra correspondent” who, after touring
Australia with the party-leaders, said he
believed the Government would “scram-
ble back into office with their majority
severely slashed.”
Almost every tipster assumed the
Government would lose a few seats,
though they differed on which and how
many. Menzies himself turned-out to be
the best prophet—he claimed the Govern-
ment would get an increased majority.
• •
The Senate count drifts on and on,
but only as a formality ; the result is
beyond doubt. In the new Senate (after
July 1, 1959) the Government will have
32 members, the A.L.P. 26 and the D.L.P.
two.
By an unlooked-for chance the Gov-
ernment will also have a majority (31-29)
for the remaining six months of the old
Senate. This is because a Liberal (Senator
McKellar) was the last of six N. S. Wales
Senators to reach the quota and will thus
fill the casual vacancy left by the death
of Senator Ashley. Labor Senator
Ormonde, appointed last year to replace
Bill Ashley, was placed second On the
A.L.P. voting-card and won a six-year
term. A curious result of this is that
although he wasn’t defeated he will cease
to be a Senator for the next six months,
but will take his seat again when the new
Senate meets after July 1,
• •
In most Queensland seats where Q.L.P.
preferences were distributed the Govern-
ment candidates benefited. The propor-
tion varied considerably in different seats.
In Brisbane, where George Lawson
(A.L.P.) had a strong lead on primaries,
Liberal candidate K. M. Cairns received
85 per cent, of Q.L.P. prefs. and reduced
Lawson’s majority to 504. In Leichhardt,
on the other hand, the Government can-
didate G. F. Turner collected only 45
per cent, of Q.L.P. prefs. and W. J.
Fulton (A.L.P) increased his already com-
fortable lead.
• •
The current issue of the “Shire and
Municipal Record,” a monthly devoted
to the activities of local-government,
commemorates the centenary of local-
government in New South Wales. In a
guest editorial, Local Government Minis-
ter' Renshaw pointed out that there was
some degree of 1.-g. well over a century
ago—the Sydney Corporation Act dates
from 1842 —but “it is true, however, that
the Municipalities Act of 1858 was the
initial attempt by Parliament to adjust
the strange, disorderly and unco-
ordinated picture of local-government
which emerged from the formative years
of the Colony.” Incidentally, this year
is also the fiftieth anniversary of the first
publication of the “Shire and Municipal
Record.”
• •
“Murray Swagman”: Vic. Labor
leader Stoneham said it was a “tradition
of Labor not to squeal, even when robbed
of victory.” The party did not intend to
depart front that tradition in the present
circumstances:
The Menzies Government has been
returned, not by public confidence, but
through a political device. Under this, a
group of bitter, frustrated people, mas-
querading as Labor, has, by misrepresenta-
tion, robbed Labor of votes to put Mr.
Menzies back into power.
It is just as well Stoneham is deter-
mined not to squeal.
• •
Three Victorian Ministers were among
17 Liberals who voted for a private
Labor bill to outlaw live-bird trap-
shooting. During the debate the piquant
situation was reached where the Premier
was seeking assurances from the Opposi-
tion on how far they intended to extend
the bill. Ordinary field-shooting won’t
be affected.
• •
British engineers are designing a harbor
for Lake Kariba, in the Zambezi Valley,
part of the £ll3-million Kariba Gorge
hydroelectric scheme. The lake will cover
2000 square miles and will be the biggest
man-made lake in the world. The site of
the lake is being cleared of timber because
it is intended that a fishing fleet will
ultimately conduct large-scale trawling
operations in the lake.
• •
Britain’s radio-isotope school at the
Atomic Energy Research station at Har-
well enrolled its 1000th student a week
ago. Twelve per cent, of these have come
from Commonwealth countries outside the
U.K. Only 16 Australians have attended
the school. It looks though we’re not
filling our quota.
“Call me that again and I’ll go you under Cahill’s new Defamation Act!”


It would be idle to look for respecf
for the press among Cahill’s Ministers.
After all, they are the men who, five
years ago, were responsible for the
infamous Press Gag Act. Still, one would
think that at least in a debate on the
Defamation Bill they would refrain from
privileged slander. When Asher Joel,
M.L.C., remarked that a member of the
judiciary had congratulated him on his
speech on the bill, Attorney - General
Downing asked him to name the mem-
ber. Joel declined, whereupon Downing
said, “A real newspaper man. Prepared
to say anything without substantiating
it.” That sneer is not the usual attack
on “press barons.” It is a slur on all
working journalists.
0 0
“A.U.A.”: According to the Adelaide
“Advertiser” Bruce Graham, the defeated
Liberal member for St. George, “masked
for a recount.” That seems to be carrying
the secrecy of the ballot too far.
0 0
Three-year driving-licences are to be
introduced gradually in Victoria:
drivers whose licences expire on the first
of a month and each third day thereafter
(fourth, seventh and so on) will get three-
year licences ; licences ending on the
second day of a month and each third
day thereafter will be replaced by a two-
year licence, and people with licences
endorsed the third, sixth and so on will
get one-year licences.
The plan is practical and typical of
the Motor Registration Branch, one of
the hardest-worked, but most efficient,
of Victorian Government departments.
0 0
Westralian casualty in the Federal
election, Hugh Leslie, Country-party
member for Moore since 1949, will find
defeat at the polls just another incident
in a colorful career. Brought up in
South Africa, he served in two cam-
paigns—the Boer rebellion of 1914, and
with Botha in South-west Africa—before
he was 21; and afterwards in East Africa.
As a journalist, he covered the Rand
strike in 1922 for a Jo’burg paper, and
within the next twelve months he was
in Melbourne, covering the Victorian
police strike. He was running a country
paper at Wyalkatchem (W.A.) when he
joined-up for World War 11. Came
home leaving a leg behind in Tobruk,
became a member of the R.S.L. State
executive, and of the Westralian Post-
War Reconstruction Regional Committee.
Elected to the Westralian Parliament as
M.L.A. for Mt. Marshall in 1943, he was
Country-party whip until he resigned in
1949 to win the Moore seat in the House
of Representatives.
0 0
Victoria, at the next Loan Council
meeting, will support Queensland in a
move for permission to borrow overseas.
(It was to stop Queensland’s Theodore
borrowing so frequently overseas that
the Premiers agreed the Loan Council
should be the borrowing authority.)
Bolte says Victoria would have no
trouble borrowing abroad. Probably his
optimism is justified ; even New
Zealand’s Walter Nash has floated
successfully a New York dollar loan.
And no Premier in Australia is as hard-
up as Nash.
0 0
More than 700 men are already work-
ing on the Melbourne-Sydney standard-
gauge railway ; 82 culverts and 34
bridge sub-structures have been com-
pleted, and work is in progress on 98
other culverts or bridges. About 140
more have to be duplicated, including
the two largest, spanning the Broken
River at Benalla and the Ovens at
Wangaratta. Tenders have been called
for £1 - million - worth of contracts for
power-signalling and traffic-control.
0 0
Arthur Calwell was among the defeated
A.L.P. candidates in the Victorian
Federated Clerics’ Union elections in
which the D.L.P. romped in with just
on four-to-one majorities. The 8500
clerks in the union are no doubt grateful
to the Industrial Groupers for freeing it
from Communist control, but prob-
ably even more happy about the four
co-op. housing-societies since formed by
the union which have lent their mem-
bers £750,000, and the scholarships pro-
vided for members’ children.
A handicap Calwell had no hope of
overcoming was the awful fact that he
hadn’t been to a Clerks’ Union meeting
for 15 years.
0 0
Jokesters in Perth said the currency
issue had been brought into the contest
for Stirling (W.A.) when Cash was nomi-
nated as Liberal candidate, but when the
counting was finished it was a case of
Cash up! Douglas Cash, a short, slight
38, who unseated Harry Webb, the Labor
member, is a Canadian who came to
Australia with his parents at the age of
three and spent his boyhood on the
eastern goldfields and later on his father’s
farm. He joined the Commonwealth
Public Service, but left it to go into busi-
ness as a newsagent. In World War II
he served first in the Army, then in the
R.A.A.F.
• 0
“M.V.”: So kites are already being
flown for higher pay for Federal M.P.s.
(B. 3/12/’58)? For years Commonwealth
Public Service unions and super-
annuated officers’ associations have been
advocating an increase of 2s. 6d. per
unit in the public-service pension. The
last increase was granted in April, 1955 ;
it brought the value of each unit to
17s. 6d. weekly despite advocacy over
the years of an increase to £1 per unit.
This from a fund which has now passed
the £5O-million mark, and draws contri-
butions of £l2 million annually and dis-
burses in pensions £6 million.
0 0
Lucas Heights nuclear reactor will be
used by research students from all Aus-
tralian universities, following the forma-
tion in Sydney last week of the Aus-
tralian Institute of Nuclear Science and
Engineering. The council of the institute
will include four representatives of the
Australian Atomic Energy Commission
and one from each of the nine universities.
The council, in conjunction with the com-
mission, will organise research projects
and training courses for university staff
and students at Lucas Heights beginning
towards the middle of next year.
• •
Ghana’s announcement, without any
prior consultation with other Common-
wealth countries, of its intention of form-
ing a union with the former French
colony Guinea, now an independent
State, raises a problem for Consti-
tutional lawyers. The meaning of
the British Commonwealth link has
in recent years been bent, twisted
and stretched in an attempt to
accommodate the varying viewpoints of
members who seem at one and the same
time to value and resent the connection.
But this action of the most junior partner
in taking unto itself another partner seems
a trifle brash, to say the least. Guinea
has now applied for admission to the
United Nations. The U.N. Assembly will
have to decide whether Ghana and
Guinea are each to be full members or
whether Ghana-Guinea will share a mem-
bership ticket, with each partner occupy-
ing the seat on alternate days.
• •
George Fitzpatrick’s two Tasmanian
lottery-share-selling agencies are to be
wound-up under an order issued by the
Supreme Court, Hobart. Counsel for the
petitioning creditor told the court that
the two companies, Investments Pty., Ltd.,
and Prudent Investments Ply., Ltd., had
announced on November 4 that they had
suspended share-selling operations.
• ©
Laying about him with some vigor,
Professor Oliphant made some provoca-
tive remarks in a recent Canberra forum
on nuclear weapons and human survival.
After agreeing that the extent of radi-
ation-damage was still unknown, he
added that when people were so com-
placent about road-accidents, lung-
cancer from the effects of smoking, and
heart-disease from consuming too many
fats, it was difficult to justify the exag-
gerated concern being shown over
nuclear fall-out.^
• •
Construction is well advanced on the
world’s largest vessel, a 105,520-ton oil-
tanker being built at Kure, Japan, for
use on the Japan-Persian Gulf route.
The tanker will be longer, wider and
much heavier than the Queen Elizabeth.
Launching was scheduled for December
6, and if the ship is complete by the end
of January, as expected, construction
will have taken seven months from the
laying of the keel.


In Sydney's Home County—
A VIEW FROM FERN HILL
By
DAVID ADAMS
Out in the bush, 32 miles
in a direct line from its
old site (where I
have enjoyed consider-
able hospitality), I’ve found the
remains of Sydney Union
Club’s former building. It
disappeared from Bligh Street
a few months ago. Most of
it is there, anyway, including the
smooth columns of the front
entrance, all laid out on the
ground like building-blocks.
For hundreds of acres around
there’s nothing else but pad-
docks, fences, trees and cattle
—except, that is, for Fern Hill
itself, the astonishing, beautiful
sandstone building that was
originally the home of Edward
Cox, of Mulgoa.
Recently Fern Hill was
bought by one of the John
Darling (flourmilling) family,
and the massive old home is
being systematically made
habitable and comfortable
again, beginning at the small
end near the kitchen and bath-
room and lesser bedrooms,
looking towards the giant red-
flowering Kurrajong tree. The
ballroom, which faces the great
columned portico, the drawing-
room, the hall, the dining-room
and the bigger bedrooms no
doubt will be attended to in
time ; but (including the vast
wine-cellars) it will be a long
job.
The Darling family weren’t
home when I was there, and
one can only speculate on what
use will be made of the Union
Club masonry ; but its sand-
stone will blend admirably with
the architecture of Fern Hill.
Tl/fiLLiAM Cox, who built the
** first road over the Blue
Mountains, with his family
took-up 4000 acres at Mulgoa
(Mulgoey in those days) be-
tween 1811 and 1817, and his
sons Henry, George and
Edward pioneered the district.
William died in 1837, and in
1839 Edward built the stables
at Fern Hill out of sandstone
quarried from the property. In
1842 Fern Hill itself was com-
pleted. George Cox, Edward's
brother, had built Winbourne,
closer to the Nepean River and
nearer to Wallacia ; the main
buildings of Winbourne were
burnt-down in the 1920’5.
In St. Thomas’s churchyard
at Mulgoa a number of Coxes
are buried ; but though the
descendants of William Cox
today form one of the largest
families in Australia, with
many of its members overseas,
significantly, none of them
today lives in Mulgoa. The
same is true of many other
pioneering families who first
settled this side of the Blue
Mountains.
From Fern Hill, well back
from the road and set about
450 ft. above sea-level (200 ft.
Where Time Has
Paused a While
above its own front gate), the
front view is back towards
Sydney, but more particularly
to the south-east, across the
smooth, grassy, tree-studded
hills of Luddenham (five miles
away) and Bringelly (nine
miles), on through Cobbitty
to Camden (16 miles). St.
Thomas’s church is clearly to
be seen among the trees in
Mulgoa just down below, but
the Church of the Holy Inno-
cent at Rossmore (10 miles
distant), one of the prettiest
churches in the State, has
Anschau’s Hill in between and
cannot be picked-out.
TN a fair season there are few
-*■ more lovely parts of Aus-
tralia than all of what in Mac-
quarie’s time was called “the
Bringelly District.” This dis-
trict, of about 75 square-miles,
according to the map of Grimes
and Flinders, ran from approxi-
mately the junction of Riley’s
Creek and South Creek, 10
miles north to near the junc-
tion of South Creek with
Blaxland’s Creek. (At this
point, as early as August 27,
1790, Lieutenant William
Dawes reported: “Here the
land in many places is very
good.”) From the South Creek
line it ran west to the Nepean
River. East of South Creek,
within the same points, the
district was known as Cabra-
matta.
The Bringelly district is
sandwiched in between the
sandstone of the coastal area
around Sydney and the sand-
stone of the Blue Mountains,
and is utterly different in
appearance from either. The
waratahs which flourish in the
sandy mould around Sydney
and in that of the Blue Moun-
tains will not grow in the
clayey soil of the Bringelly
area, which is better suited to
shy blooms such as sundews,
the native primrose, the fringed
violet, a blue lobelia, and
scarlet and blue pimpernels.
Ground-berries (geebungs) and
five-corners are to be found,
and a variety of yamlike and
lily-type plants, including one
with a small flower of brilliant
blue, called a flax-lily. Dil-
wynnias and other spiky shrubs
do well, but not so well as an
imported (and almost ineradic-
able) blackthorn. Wattle and
clematis abound, and there is
the false sarsaparilla; but
boronias, native roses, Christ-
mas-bush and the like are
absent.
The complete contrast be-
tween the rolling grassland and
open forest of the district and
the sandstone ridges, long
ocean beaches and harbor
waterways of the Sydney area
20-30 miles away helps to give
that infinite variety and charm
to Sydney’s home county—the
County of Cumberland.
T>ringelly, pronoun ced
something like “Bringethly,”
is Welsh for “meadow hill,”
and the open forest, with tall,
straight ironbarks, grey-box,
stringybark, casuarina and
forest redgum, set in rolling
grassland, must have delighted
the eye of the early explorers
and settlers emerging from the
crooked angophora, scribbly-
gum, banksia and tea-tree
scrub nearer the coast.
The Badgerys, Gregory
Blaxland and D'Arcy Went-
worth were among the first to
receive grants of land (in 1809)
between Luddenham (which
area was a later grant to John
Blaxland) and St. Mary’s;
and South Creek and Badgery's
Creek were among the first
Forest red gum on Badgery Creek where it runs through
what was originally the old John Blaxland property of
Luddenham.


accurately mapped water-
courses in Australia. The
Bringelly hills today still show
the furrows of the convict
ploughman, even though the
country may have reverted
to pasture or bush.
The discovery of gold in the
’fifties brought knowledge to
the settlers of the County of
Cumberland that “the land was
better further on,” and today
Mulgoa, Luddenham, Bringelly
and Cobbitty are sleepy
villages. Thought to be too wet
for both wheat and sheep, they
have turned out, on average,
rather dry for dairying; but
dairying and poultryfarming
(after timbergetting ended)
have sustained the districts for
the past hundred years.
Now the influence of the
Commonwealth Government is
spreading through the district;
it has a munition-factory on
the northern fringe of it at St.
Mary’s ; there are Air Force
and Navy munitions-dumps
along the road from Kings-
wood to Bringelly; the
C.5.1.R.0. has establishments
in the area ; and at Bringelly
the Overseas Telecommunica-
tions Commission has the
receiving-station for its Beam
Wireless system.
ATention Bringelly to Sydney
weekend motorists and
they’ll say: “It’s a very pretty
place all through there.”
People with more experience of
life on the land will add: “But
in a dry area.” And at the
Badgery’s Creek experimental
farm Mr. Geddes, the man who
advocates “harvesting water”
and storing it in turkey-nest
dams while water is abundant
after rains, will agree with the
dry-area contention. Rain falls
at Bringelly mostly in infre-
quent, though sometimes large,
amounts. It gives it an excel-
lent “living” climate, though.
On his tour through the
Bringelly District on November
28, 1810, Governor Lachlan
Macquarie described the land
around Bringelly as “tolerably
good, and pretty well watered,
but it is better adapted to graz-
ing than to tilling,” adding,
We rode back a different way to
what we came, to Mr. G. Blaxland’s
farm, through his second large farm
and a farm belonging to Dr. Went-
worth in the Bringelly district; the
country through this last ride was
pretty to look at, but the soil
generally bad.
The farm of Gregory Blax-
land to which Macquarie rode
back was a holding of 280 acres
originally granted to William
Villiers, and it was from near
this farm, “on the South
Creek,” that Blaxland, Lawson
Casuarinas (forest oaks) in “the meadow below the hill”
near Bringelly.
and Wentworth set-out to cross
the Blue Mountains on May
11, 1813. There is a monu-
ment by the roadside.
Around the centre of each
village—Luddenham, Bringelly,
Locality Map, page 42
Badgery’s Creek and Cobbitty,
and more so through Ross-
more to Liverpool—there have
been small holdings of 1\ acres
and upwards for 75 years, and
in some cases for longer. But
the main holdings right
through, from the Western
Road to the Hume Highway
have remained big properties
of hundreds of acres, even
though broken-down in size
from the large grants to
Gregory Blaxland and Went-
worth in 1809, and the 6710-
acre holding in John Blaxland’s
Luddenham.
Probably that is a reason
why the whole area has shown
so little change in appearance
for a century or more.
The western and southern
roads and railways fork near
Parramatta and pass to the
north and south of the Brin-
gelly area; and the base of
the triangle is the Nepean
River and the foothills of the
rugged Blue Mountains to the
west.
The spread of urbanisation
from the east petered-out at
Smithfield and Liverpool long
ago. On the map, the barrier
appears to be the Old Cow-
pasture Road. The greatest
activity at the moment is
from the direction of St.
Mary’s, though the tomato-
growers around Lep-
pington (named after another
old pioneer homestead), along
the Hume Highway from
Liverpool, are bringing closer
settlement with them. But not,
yet, urbanisation.
Tn Bringelly about 1890 there
was a subdivision of 700
acres (adjoining Blaxland’s
Luddenham) originally granted
to William Hutchison in 1823.
The holder of the property at
the time of the subdivision was
Thomas Hussey Kelly. This
subdivision was handled by a
firm of real-estate agents named
Boyd and King, who aimed at
attracting the interest of new-
comers from Britain and
Europe, and, with a certain
amount of craft, its roads were
named Clyde, Derwent, Mersey
and so on. As an extra bit of
sales-talk the subdivision was
called “Cowpasture Farms,”
though the Cowpastures of
history were across the Nepean,
near Camden, about 11 miles
away.
Most of the buyers of the
land were, in fact, from the
Old Country, with a German,
a Dane and (a comparative
latecomer) a Frenchman
named De Cergat (who went
through two substantial in-
heritances, and owned the first
motor-car in the district) among
those from the Continent.
Most of the new landowners
and their generally large
families wrested a living
from 10-acre or 30-acre blocks,
protesting with some justice
that they were being robbed
by Sussex Street produce-
agents of the time, and periodi-
cally facing the droughts
which in the area were cer-
tainly as severe and dispiriting
as anywhere else along the
coastal fringe. The settlers
from overseas were notably
awkward with horses and cattle
(Continued on page 42)
Holy Innocent Church at Rossmore, built when the district
was known as Cabramatta. It still has a shingle roof.


Personal
ITEMS
On a world-tour, with one of his
principal aims to form stronger links
in the chain of friendship and under-
standing that links the countries of the
British Commonwealth of Nations, the
Rt. Hon. John George Diefenbaker,
Prime Minister of Canada, blew-in to
Canberra from Singapore. He has now
gone on to New Zealand. His philosophy:
“The good citizen and the good nation
must recognise their obligations to the
broad community of man.”
Born in Normanby Township, Ontario,
in 1895, he graduated at the University
of Saskatchewan in 1915, served over-
seas in the Canadian Army, 1916-17,
was called to the Bar in 1919 and has
been a member of the Canadian House
of Commons since 1940 and Prime
Minister since 1957.
• •
New C.M.F. member of the Military
Board, Major-General Denzil Macarthur-
Onslow is a descendant of Lieutenant-
General Sir Edward Macarthur-Onslow,
the first Australian-born officer to hold
a commission.
• •
Retired from The Bulletin's machine-
room staff on November 28, T. L.
(“Lock”) Brown, who joined the
company in March, 1911, and who
was one of the best-liked inhabit-
ants of the inky ground-floor.
Lock was born in Maitland
(N.S.W.) and knew Les Darcy
well; Lock himself, with his two
brothers, formed a troupe (under
the name of Kilray) and boxed at
the old Gaiety in Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. From boxing to pigeons ; he
is a breeder of the racing variety, and
was a judge at the R.A.S. for many years.
D. V. Selth, 33-year-old senior master
at St. Peter’s College, Adelaide, becomes
the 12th head of 112-year-old Launceston
Grammar School. He succeeds B. H.
Travers, who goes to the headmastership
of Sydney Church of England Grammar.
Selth, who graduated at Adelaide Uni-
versity, worked with the A.B.C. as a
commentator during the Olympic Games
in Melbourne, and is co-author of
Olympic Saga, written to raise funds for
amateur athletics in Australia.
• •
A Westralian science-graduate, 22-year-
old Robert Fels, is to lead the delega-
tion of Australian university students
touring India in January at the invita-
tion of the Indian Council of Cultural
Relations. Later, Fels will sit for an
honors-degree in inorganic chemistry.
“The only Australian who’s been able
to pull Australians’ legs and make them
like it”—that is the verdict of the High
Commissioner of Samoa on John
O’Grady, alias Nino Culotta, author of
the best-seller They’re a Weird Mob.
O’Grady (sketched herewith) came
into The Bulletin office the other day,
after two hours spent autographing copies
of his book in a Sydney store. He was
wearing a Samoan shirt, open at the
neck, and said, with the quick smile
he has: “Surprising how you can-be cut
CULOTTA
back to earth. There was 1 being lionised
in the bookshop, and when 1 went to a
pub nearby for a drink they turned me
out because I wasn’t wearing a collar
and tie.”
Born in Sydney in 1907, O’Grady
worked as a pharmacist with Hallams,
joined the Medical Corps in War 11, and
came back again to pharmacy on demob.
He says he found himself getting frus-
trated getting older and fatter and
achieving nothing. So he gave-up phar-
macy and worked for six months as a
builder’s laborer. That made him new
friends, and showed him new surround-
ings, and from this grew the idea of his
book. Instead of writing it as a new
builder's laborer, he hit on the idea of
writing it as a New Australian.
Since then he’s been in Samoa, work-
ing as Government pharmacist and
studying the language and culture of the
Samoans, whom he calls the Irish of the
Pacific. The result of this will be a new
novel —in the form of an autobiography
of a young Samoan who has a series of
Chaplinesque adventures in his search for
honor and respect.
• •
Clive V. Dunlop, who has been asso-
ciated with Sydney stockbroking since
1912 (with a break during both world
wars), retired from active participation
in the firm of Wolff Dunlop and Co. on
November 30. He joined O. F. J. Wolff s
business 31 years ago, and eventually
became a partner. Frank Wolff, too,
served in both world wars.
• •
“P.A.L.”: The Antarctic certainly
pulls on the old-timers: Byrd, Mawson,
and now Sir Raymond Priestley. Last-
mentioned recently arrived in N.Z. en
route for McMurdo Sound to join the
American party as an observer for the
U.K. It’s half-a-century since Sir Ray-
mond was engaged in geological work
with the Shackleton Expedition. As he
is now 72, he reckons he won’t be doing
any field-work on this occasion.
• •
“Shibli Bagarag”: When, not so long
ago, 1 met A. H. Reed, the veteran N.Z
author-publisher, he had tried to climb
Mt. Ruapehu, but had been obliged to
go back to the Chateau because of bad
weather he met halfway up. I asked
him about Ngaruhoe. Oh, yes ; a few
days earlier he had topped that peak
(every now and then it erupts), but he
wanted the double. Reed is rising 84.
A year or two ago he climbed Egmont
and may still have hopes of beating Ed.
Hillary up Mt. Cook. When he’s
not tramping or climbing, A.H.R.
is either writing'books or building-
up the challenging collection of
books and other things in the
Dunedin Library. When a boy of
12, he had leg trouble and the
doctors wanted to amputate —he
protested and won. No doubt
even then he was thinking of those un-
climbed peaks. Today he’s as lean as
whipcord, and his shock of hair, white
as snow, is as flourishing as Hillary’s.
This year's annual dinner of Rhodes
Scholars in Perth was attended by Sir
Walter Worboys, commercial director of
the 1.C.1. in England and Westralian
Rhodes Scholar for 1922. Home on a
holiday after 36 years’ absence from
Australia, the first question he asked his
brother, who met him at Perth airport,
was, “How far is Perth from here?”
Arrival in Westralia by air was a new
experience for him. Speaking informally
to the Westralian Rhodes Scholars’
Association, he said that Australia should
not be backward in seeking a share of
the new markets opening in Asia.
• •
From Pat Lawlor: Re R. A. Henderson
(B. 26/11 /’5B), when Simpson was killed
on Gallipoli by a sniper it was Henderson
who took-over with the donkey on the
errands of mercy. A photo of Murphy


and his new boss was shown to artist
Sapper Moore-Jones, who made a paint-
ing of it. Being under the impression
that Henderson was the original Simpson,
Moore-Jones called the picture “Simpson
and His Donkey.” I understand the
original is now the property of the Com-
mercial Travellers’ Club in Auckland.
Henderson had been blind for many
years as the result of being gassed at
Passchendaele in 1917. The original
Simpson was an Australian. Sapper
Moore-Jones died many years ago from
burns after heroic rescues he made from-
a burning building in Rotorua. Author
“Robin Hyde” (Iris Wilkinson) wrote
the whole story of Moore-Jones and his
picture and death some time in the
’thirties, but I haven't been able to find
out if it was published.
• •
F. R. (“Freddie”) Brown, manager of
the touring English Test-team, is a strap-
ping six-footer with red hair and an
engaging personality. Educated at The
Leys School and St. John’s College, Cam-
bridge, he won his cricket blue as a fresh-
man and added a hockey blue to it in his
second year. He first toured Australia
with the “bodyline” tourists of 1932-33
under the captaincy of D. R. Jardine,
and although he never played in a Test-
match in that series he was a valuable
“spare part,” relieving such “greats” as
Larwood, Voce, Hammond and co. in
the lesser matches. He also gained valu-
able experience of Australian conditions
which was to stand him in good stead in
later years.
Brown (pictured here) saw service in
the Middle East during War II and was
taken prisoner by the Germans at Tobruk.
He spent the rest of the war in various
“offlags” all over Italy, Germany and
Czechoslovakia. After the war he cap-
tained the Northamptonshire county side,
and reached the peak of his sporting
career when elected captain of the Eng-
lish side to tour Australia in 1950-51.
He was the first English captain to lead
CRICKET
his side to victory in a Test-match against
the Australians since War 11.
Apart from cricket, Brown plays to a
single-figure handicap at golf and is a
very dangerous opponent on a billiard-
table. If asked his opinion of his
“charges’ ” prospects in the Test-series he
will reply, “No comment,” but the broad
grin that will spread across his genial
countenance will positively exude confi-
dence.
• •
Sir Alexander Fleck, chairman of
Imperial Chemical Industries, has come
to Australia to inspect 1.C.1. installations
in South Australia, N.S.W. and Victoria.
While in Melbourne he will officially
open 1.C.1. House on December 11, and
later will deliver the Russell Grimwade
lecture to the Royal Australian Chemical
Institute.
• •
Elected president of the International
Committee of Scientific Management,
Walter Scott, of Sydney, is governing-
director of W. D. Scott and Co. and is
a past-president of the Australian Institute
of Management. He succeeds Count
Pierre Baruzy, of France.
• •
Taking' command of the 17th Light
Anti-Aircraft Regiment, R.A.A. (C.M.F.),
Colin William Reilly, of Mosman,
Sydney, joined the Militia in 1938, as
a field-gunner in Melbourne. In War II
he was with the 2/3rd Light Anti-
Aircraft Regiment in Palestine and
Egypt. Born in Melbourne, he’s these
days a branch-head in the Sydney
Customs House—following his family’s
ealling. His father was Collector of
Customs in South Australia and his
brother is in the Customs in Melbourne.
• •
Appointed to the Chair of Chemistry
at Canberra University College, A. N.
Hambly has been associate-professor
since 1953 at Melbourne Uni., where he
won first-class honors in chemistry.
• •
Back in Australia after two years
commanding R.A.A.F. headquarters in
London, Air-Commodore R.F.M. Green,
D. 5.0., will now take-over as Senior Air
Officer at Home Command, Sydney.
Born at Pingelly (W.A.), he left his
father’s farm to join the R.A.A.F. as
a cadet in 1937. In War II he com-
manded No. 11 Squadron, R.A.A.F.
• •
Dr. G. Newman Morris, son of Sir
John Newman Morris (who was one of
Australia’s leading surgeons), takes-over
as president of the Australian Red Cross.
An honorary surgeon at Prince Henry’s
Hospital, Melbourne, a police medical-
officer and a commander of the Order
of St. John of Jerusalem, Dr. Newman
Morris served with hospital units during
War II and was in charge of the surgical
division of the 2/7th A.G.H.
Lots of inter-State travellers will know
John S. Mcßryde, who is sketched here-
with. Captain of M.V. Kanimbla, he first
KANIMBLA
went to sea from Port Logan, Scotland,
as an apprentice in a full-rigged ship.
He was with the Royal Navy in War
I and the R.A.N. in War 11, and sand-
wiched quite a bit of adventure into the
years between. He was pearling from
Broome (W.A.) from 1921-23 ; then com-
manded a revenue-cutter of the Federated
Malay States Customs Service engaged in
preventing rubber-smuggling to Sumatra.
Coming back to the merchant-service in
1934, he joined Mcllwraith McEacharn
in 1937.
It’s appropriate that this seadog should
command the Kanimbla. She, too, first
saw service with the R.N. —as an armed
merchant-cruiser, distinguishing herself by
leading the attack on Banda Shapur in
the Persian Gulf. Later she was trans-
ferred to the R.A.N. and used as an
assault-ship.
• •
Into the Silence: —•
In Sydney, at 78, Dr. Joseph Coen, who was
in general practice at Lismore, N.S.W., and
afterwards a well-known heart-specialist in
Macquarie Street, Sydney, and honorary at
St. Vincent’s, Lewisham and the Community
Hospital, Moore Park.
In Adelaide, at 81, Ernest Harvey, pioneer
of the Salisbury district; he exhibited citrus-
fruits in the Royal Adelaide Show regularly
from 1928.
In Sydney, Alderman Gerald de Vahl Davis;
on Woollahra Council for the past nine years.
In Adelaide, at 73, Kenneth Duffield, com-
poser, playwright, writer, producer, theatrical-
manager and pastoralist.
In Perth, at 84, Robert Henry Palmer,
formerly divisional bandmaster of the Salvation
Army in Perth. Before retirement he was
on the staff of the Public Service Inspector’s
Office.
In Sydney, at 72, Professor William Aitken
Miller, former Dean of the Faculty of Engineer-
ing and Challis Professor of Civil Engineering
at Sydney University.


ABORIGINALITIES
'T'he sight convulsed our Queensland
town. The big plush limousine
pulled-in at the kerb ; the middle-aged
"He says he's related to you—on his mother's side."
driver got out, went around and opened
the front-seat passenger-door to allow-
the white goat which had been sitting
alongside him to hop down on to the
footpath. The woman in the back seat
—presumably his missus—got out un-
aided.—“D.W.’ 1
* * * *
“Kelms”: A chapter of W.A. history
closed recently when the Midland Rail-
way Co. sold 11,000 acres at prices
ranging from five-bob to nearly 50-bob
an acre. That was the last of the land
granted under an agreement, signed in
1886, whereby the company was to build
and operate a railway from Midland
Junction to Walkaway, near Geraldton.
The grant was 12,000 acres for every
mile of line, and at 277 miles that gave
the company over 3,300,000 acres. A
line built by a private co. under the same
conditions was constructed between
Albany and Beverley, but that company
sold-out to the Government. The Mid-
land Co. is still operating its line.
* * * *
“Hey”: If Dagworth Dan still fishes
the Thompson River, Longreach (B.
19/11/’5B), and should find a diamond-
ring inside one of those jewies, will he
let me, the once-owner, know? Lost, also
fishing for jewies, 1912.
* * * m
“Halque”: Christmas-bushes in flower
have an irresistible attraction for flies of
every description—tiny things, big green,
bronze, yellow or striped-bodied fellows
—and a striking wasp with iridescent
wings, black body with white-spotted
sides and orange antennas and legs. But
bees give them the go-by. If no nectar
—and there is certainly no scent —what
attracts the others?
“Cadam”: A Cape York Peninsula
grazier accompanied his wife to Cairns,
where she was to await the birth
of her first child. While there a chemist
friend bet him a quart of rum that the
expected infant would be a girl. Circum-
stances compelling the grazier to return
home almost immediately, and means of
communication in the Peninsula being
far from perfect, he received his first
intimation that he had become a father
when the Bush Pilot's plane, on its weekly
mail-run, brought him a quart-bottle of
rum.
* * * *
“Bass”: The ability of birds to dis-
cover a food-supply which turns-up
unexpectedly in out-of-the-way places
(B. 19/11/’5B) is one field in which
research might pay dividends. I've seen
it in outback W.A., where occasionally
the earth seemed to erupt with grass-
hoppers. Within a day or so the straw-
necked ibis would start to arrive, and
flock after flock would pour into the
district and scotch the plague before it
reached the flying-stage. Often these ibis
must have come from hundreds of miles
away. But more remarkable examples
come from well inland, on the desert
lakes, where flocks of ducks have
appeared on dry watercourses, hundreds
of miles from water, a few hours before
the rain.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Thanks, “D.A.” (B.
19/11/ "58). Your bird was a reed-
warbler on his way south. A few days
after the lovely green slopes of
Duntryleague were quiet for the
loss of him some reedy corner
of the Riverina would be vibrant
because he was back. To spend
a day or two in that oleander-
bush was characteristic of him
during migration ; at about the
same time, my neighbor here
in the Hunter Valley had one
performing from the depths of
a big cypress. In the autumn,
when the restlessness is upon
him again, the warbler is likely
to leave the reeds where he
raised his young, and take to
the branches 20ft. or 30ft. above.
That “one regular item at the
peak of his song”—the “Pretty,
pretty, pretty!”—is the source
of one of his vernacular names
amongst youngsters, “Georgey,
Georgey”; there are several
words that can be as loosely
fitted to the rich notes. Feed?
Small insects —gulped in haste,
IN ALMONDS
Stout arms with poles beat almonds down
From out the knuckled autumn skies,
Work on till out of winter’s frown
On kitchen boards the burden lies.
Then husking almonds every night
We sit and talk the hours along.
At times perhaps re-trim the light
Or on the coldness try a song.
And best it is when neighbors come
To reinforce our two-voiced theme
(For two alone it’s hard to claim
New ground where two have often been ;
Two tend to talk of cares too much
While wit curls sleepy in each head,
But neighbors’ voice is magic touch —
Then wit revives, gets out of bed).
A thousand almonds in a night!
It’s neighbor mirth that drives them on t —-
Dry Kelly who recalls the plight
Of how a beehive bluffed his son,
Or hoary Reilly strong and round
Who cracks an almond with a pinch
And bearlike mimes how once he found
The cook and Grandpa in a clinch.
So wit to wit makes up its match
Till all our quirks have modest fame —
As side by side two logs will catch
Though neither single has the flame.
It’s then I lose the itch to count,
Set up with folk of country ways —
Sufficient that the kernels mount,
That almond-time can husk such days.
VIC.
NOEL MACAINSH.


'PZ./ST-MAS’
V
/T-
■3£V=£>,<^^
/T-b "AGAIN /


I’d say, so’s not to interfere with the
singing. Good to know he had an
appreciative audience ; he’s worth it.
* * * »
“Femina”: “Kesem,” writing of the
Warwick (Q.) rodeo and Mrs. Thompson
(B. 12/11/ ’5B), was right in his appraisal
of Mrs. Thompson’s skill, but he missed-
out on the result of the draft. The
winner of the Risdon Draft was not
Trixie, Murphy’s mare, which, as always,
he rode himself, but Mrs. Thompson’s
own mare, Teena, with owner up, who
took the Cup in the run-off from Trixie.
Both are small, good types of ponies, and
“BLAST Christmas !”
were probably the two smallest camp-
drafters on the ground. This is by no
means the first time the ladies have
beaten men at their own game—Gwen
Winter, May Scott, Leila Gunn, Judy
Doyle, Gert Brook and others could mix
it with the best in open company. One
of the most memorable run-offs ever
seen at Warwick was in 1951 between
Cooper’s Zane and Ballard’s Popeye
(with Gert Brook up), and the final round
that clinched the Warwick Gold Cup for
Miss Brook and her mount. A further
triumph for their sex was the fact that
in the finals of both drafts at Warwick
this year, mares filled first, second and
third places.
* * * *
“Jackstay”: A cairn at Port Victoria,
the last Spencer Gulf port visited by the
big sailing-ships, is the aim of the Sailing
Ship Memorial Committee, 15 members
of which have been round Cape Horn.
These Cape Horners want a roll to be
made, and to meet once a year in
Adelaide ; one voyager with an enviable
record (’39, Passat to Falmouth; ’4O,
three-masted Penang to Buenos Aires;
’4B-’49 Passat around the world) is willing
to record names of eligibles from all
over the country —Miss Betty Northmore,
of Ulooloo Station,- Hallett, S.A.
A nother small but significant step has
been taken towards the goal of self-
government for Papua-New Guinea. The
latest three members of the auxiliary
division of the Territory Public Service
to be elected to the committee of the
Moresby branch of the P.S. Association
are Messrs. Toua Kapena (Education),
Sinaka Goava (Native Affairs) and Elliott
Elijah (Native Affairs). —“Fuzzy Wuzzy.”
* * * *
“R.R.D.”: Some of them still start
young! Alan and lan Lowery, aged
respectively six and seven, founded their
own Jersey stud in. Baulkham Hills
(N.S.W.) two-and-a-half years ago. From
their savings the two boys bought a
three-months-old heifer. Now the
Alanian Stud has just registered its first
calf, a heifer —Alanian Designing Snow-
drop. The boys now have a herd of
three heifers and two cows milking.
* * * *
“Tackee”: How long does it take a
eucalypt to petrify? During the erec-
tion of a bridge in 1928 over the Yarra
the removal of an obstruction proved
it to be a redgum. It retained everything,
even bark, but geologists computed its
age as well into 300,000 years ; there was
no petrifaction. Yet I found a petrified
sawn bloodwood block, 18in. high, with
a 40in. circumference, in the dry bed of
a creek in Burragorang Valley (N.S.W.) —
a beautiful specimen, with its kino still
adhering to the surface.
* * * •
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Authorities lately
made an interesting comparison of living-
costs in Port Moresby and Canberra,
though they were careful to say they were
not trying to establish the cost of living
in Moresby. The annual figures showed
£845 for Moresby for food, rent, cloth-
ing, fuel and light, superannuation, fire-
insurance and tobacco and cigarettes,
compared with £783 for Canberra. (The
Moresby total included £llO for a ser-
vant.) Food, at £351, was a bit more in
Moresby, but rent and rates were only
£47, as against £143 in Canberra (surely
a low estimate). Heavier clothing was
not included for Canberra because it was
felt it would be counterbalanced by the
“leave” clothing required every two years
by most Territorians.
* * * *
“Manamoi”: Homer proverbially
nodded, and so, more unexpectedly, did
Henry G. Lamond (B. 29/10/’5B). If
Parapituri Waterhole is in the Georgina,
well downstream from Roxborough, then
it may be west or south-west from Boulia,
but not north. Conversely, if it is north
from Boulia, it isn’t in the Georgina, but
may be in the Burke or the Wills, which
join above Boulia and flow south-west
from that metropolis to join the Georgina,
both systems forming tributaries of
Eyre’s Creek. The old-hand who told me
about Parapituri was vague about its
location, but very positive about its being
fresh at one end and salt at the other ;
indeed, he asserted that there was a point
about midway along where you could
dip with two quart-pots simultaneously,
arms’-stretch apart, and bring up fresh
water in one and salt in the other. The
slightest flicker of a smile from his
audience at this point and he’d refuse to
go on to his tales about the Min Min pub,
whose ashes are haunted by the Min Min
light. The old bloke’s yarns were lurid
enough to account for a whole galaxy
of ghostly lights.
* * * *
“Spin”: Quaint placenames (B.
19/11/’58)? On research for a radio-
script I struck Candlelight, in sou’-
Westralia. Couldn’t get a clue as to its
origin.
* * * *
TThey’re growing vegetables and vines
-*■ on the Nullarbor, where the going
is almost as tough as the people who live
there. At Koonalda station, 68 miles
on the S.A. side of Eucla, the Cyril
Gurneys have a garden presided over by
Grandfather Gurney, over 80 years
young—the terrible inland climate doesn’t
give him a chance to grow old. He
showed me silver-beet that any Easterner
could be proud of; his tomatoes and
vines looked well, too. Round the boun-
daries of each bed are rows of bottles
four and five deep, each with a paper
cork. Asked the reason for this, Pop
said: “Son, each of those bottles is filled
With water, and there are over 4000 of
them. In December I hope to have a
spell with relatives in Mt. Gambier.
While I’m away my six grandchildren will
have no excuse for not watering my
garden.” He hopes to have 6000 bottles
filled before he leaves. The paper corks
stop the terrific evaporation that occurs
there. —“Yen.”


Time Means Tucker
By H. P. (“DUKE”) TRITTON
Illustrations chiefly from contemporary issues of The Bulletin.
For time means tucker, and tramp you must, where the scrubs
and plains are wide,
With seldom a track that a man can trust, or a mountain-peak
to guide ;
All day long in the dust and heat —when summer is on the track —
With stinted stomachs and blistered feet, they carry their swags
Out Back.
-Henry Lawson.
The year 1905 was the
turning-point of my life.
I was 19 years of age,
and had never been
farther from Sydney than
Parramatta.
Work was scarce and wages
low, and conditions all-round
were tough, so when Dutchy
Bishop suggested we try our
luck around the shearjng-sheds
I reckoned I would be in it.
The fact that shearing did not
start in N. S. Wales till June
did not worry us in the least,
though it was then early Feb-
ruary. Another fact, that we
knew nothing at all about
shearing, didn’t even enter our
minds.
So, with the optimism of
youth, we decided to start that
night. As we had heard of the
northern districts being one of
the places where work was
plentiful, we reckoned north
would do us. Also we could
get a good start by boarding
the Sydney, a paddle-steamer,
which sailed at midnight three
times a week for Newcastle and
Morpeth, and reached New-
castle at 6 a.m. The fare was
two-and-six.
When I broke the news to my
family I met with a lot of
opposition from my mother
and sisters, but I managed to
convince them that I was not
going into unexplored country
teeming with hostile blacks.
Dad came home then, and said
it would be a bit of an experi-
ence for me.
He had carried his swag to
the Gulgong gold-rush in 1871,
and he showed me how to roll
a swag, and gave me a lot of
advice, which I promptly
forgot. Mum brought blankets,
sheets, clothes, boots and even
a pillow. I would have needed
a camel to have carried them.
She could not imagine how 1
was going to sleep without
sheets. Of course all mums are
like that.
/~\ur sea-trip was uneventful,
and we sighted “Nobby’s”
on time. I wasn’t impressed by
Newcastle, but few cities look
very nice from the waterfront.
We went to the Salvation
Army building and had break-
fast, and when I asked for
envelope and papers to write
home, as I had promised, they
were given freely.
We left Newcastle at noon
and reckoned we would get to
Maitland that
night. But, not
used to walking,
and with the
shoulder - straps of
the swags chafing,
we only got as far
as Hexham, where
we camped by a
nice-looking sheet
of water.
Little did we
know what we had
let ourselves in for,
but we soon found
out. Hexham
swamps are the
home of the
famous “Hexham
Greys,” the biggest
and hungriest mos-
quitoes in Austra-
lia. And it is no
exaggeration to say
there were millions
of them. They
were like a thick
grey cloud, and the
buzzing was inde-
scrib a b 1 e. As
“Banjo” Paterson
mentions in one of his poems,
“They could suck a man dry
at a sitting, no doubt.”
What they lived on, except
for the swagman inexperienced
enough to camp on those
swamps, still has me beat. In
all my travels I have never met
anything like them. All night
we lay awake with blankets over
our faces, but their humming
kept us from sleeping. We
finally lit a ring of cowdung-
fires and crouched over them
till daylight, choking and
coughing with the fumes.
Then, to make matters worse,
homesickness set in. We would
both stare in the direction in
which we thought Sydney lay,
and it only needed one of us
to say “Let’s go back,” and our
travels would have ended right
there. Each knew what the
other was thinking. Finally
Dutchy sighed and said, “We'd
have to fight the lot of them,”
and I replied, “Yes. They’d
jeer so much we would never
live it down.”
So we rolted our swags and
went north.
My only recollection of the
town of Maitland is one long
street. Just as we came in, a
policeman pulled us up and,
after asking a lot of questions
as to who we were, where we
came from, etc., told us to keep
going. To make sure we corn-
plied with his orders he
followed us to the end of town.
Our feet were blistered, our
shoulders were sore and our
spirits were very low. We
limped along cursing all police-
men and wondering why we
had ever left home. However,
a few miles out we camped at
a little creek, and after a feed
and a swim we felt a lot better.
There were plenty of leeches in
the creek, but after the Hexham
Greys they were a mere item.
I slept like a log that night.
There may have been mos-
quitoes around, but I wouldn’t
know. The sun was well up
when we woke, and the world
didn’t seem a bad place.
We had walked a couple of
miles when we had a stroke of
luck. A lady and gentleman
in a buggy offered us a lift to
Singleton. Never heard who
they were, but I have never
forgotten them. They were very
friendly, and talked and joked
about our ambition to become
big-gun shearers. When we
parted at Singleton they waved
away our thanks and wished us
luck.
We had a bad moment when
a policeman pulled us up when
we were halfway through the
town. He asked the usual
questions, noted them down
in his book, then said: “Well,
boys, I’m afraid there is not
much chance of inexperienced
lads getting a job around here
just now, but you can camp at
the bridge for a few days and
have a try for one. Come up
to the station about noon every
day you are here, and I might
be able to do something for
you. Be careful with fire —
we’re a bit afraid of it with so
much dry grass about.”
He then left us, and we went
down to the river with our
opinions on the police-force
considerably altered.
r T'HE people were friendly and
helpful, but after two days
we gave up hope of work in
('Continued on page 48)


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. URQUHART, M. D. PASSMORE, K. W. A. BRIDGES
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
25 O’CONNELL STREET
SIDNEY
Telephone
BW 8171 (3 lines)
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX.” Sydney
DAVIS, ROTHWELL & CO.
(Incorporating Headlam, Hewson & Co.)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
o Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.)
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BL 1855 (3 lines)
193 Summer Street, Orange.
Orange 4054
Telegraphic and Cable Address, “RETEP," Sydney.
Business. Robbery.ect.
PROGRESS WITHOUT INFLATION
F'or the past decade The
Bulletin has been
insistent in its opinion that
inadequate productivity has
been the root-cause of Aus-
tralia’s economic problems.
So emphatic that half-a-dozen
years ago it reduced its diag-
nosis to a formula—“ Not
enough production, not enough
efficiency (employer and
employee), not enough saving,
not enough profit, not enough
investment.”
One of the major factors in
our lack of productivity was,
of course, the 40-hour week,
introduced in 1948. For about
a decade the favorable terms
of overseas trade, under which
high average prices for our
exports enabled us to buy large
quantities of overseas goods
and raw materials to make-up
for the lack in our own pro-
ductive efforts or for our high
costs, masked our shortcomings
to a large extent, but did not
inhibit inflation, which was the
greatest menace of this period.
Expansion and Inflation
In September, 1956, pro-
voked by the “develop regard-
less” views coming from a
particular economic direction,
this paper also offered the
opinion that to have progress
at some cost in inflation was
excusable, but that to have
inflation without progress
would be disastrous. It was
contended here that an infla-
tionary financial policy which
ran ahead of expansion was.
more likely to hinder progress
than to help it.
A study of “Conditions for
Economic Progress,” prepared
by the Economic Department
of the Bank of New South
Wales in its latest quarterly
“Review,” would appear to be
in agreement with most of
what The Bulletin has con-
tended with regard to produc-
tivity, saving and the dangers
arising from inflation and an
adverse balance of trade.
The bank’s own summary of
its opinion is expressed thus:
Despite the effects of current
short-term difficulties in world
commodity markets, A ustralia
has a prospect of vigorous
economic expansion over the
next decade and beyond.
“The Australians got here first with a moon-rocket
from Woomera.”
Continuing national develop-
ment is based on economic
expansion in the rest of
the world, accentuated by
the rapid rise in the Australian
population an d imminent
changes in its demographic
composition. This growth will
demand heavy capital-invest-
ment and impose strains on the
economic structure which must
be resolved through a frank
recognition of market forces.
The seductive appeal of “easy
money” for Government or
private projects can only lead
to inflation, frustration of the
free-market economy and a
retarded pace of development.
Continuation of the rate of
expansion of the Australian
economy, in the absence of
substantial revival of world
prices for wool and metals and
stronger demand for food-
stuffs, depends on a sustained
dynamic of demand in Aus-
tralia and a widening of the
sources of export earnings.
“The first condition is amply
filled by the assured growth
of population and strong
aspirations for higher living-
standards supported by exten-
sive facilities for consumer-
credit,” the bank says.
The second, an adequate
volume of export earning, was
harder to ensure and depended
on vigorous marketing and
competitive pricing.
Inflation or Development?
The chief danger to con-
tinued development was not a
lack of demand, but rather that
in current political circum-
stances there was a short-
sighted bias towards monetary
inflation.
This was implicit in many
of the demands put forward
by organisations of labor, busi-
nessmen and pensioners.
The bank warns that this
bias towards inflation may out-
weigh the strenuous efforts of
the monetary authorities to
preserve the value of the
currency.
”H owe v e r superficially
attractive, an easy - money
policy in conditions of econo-
mic expansion can lead only
to price-rises, intensified scarci-
ties, and weakening of the free-
market distribution system.
“Apart from the injustice it
causes those holding claims
expressed in money, or those
on fixed-money incomes, infla-
tion reduces business efficiency
and raises real costs of produc-
tion.
“Only the naive will be grati-
fied by the rise in the money-
value of production,” the bank
adds.
Where the competitive posi-
tion of our exporters is weak-
ened by high costs, attempts
to deal with the situation
through import-quotas and
export-subsidies are only in-
effective stopgaps, making the
competitive position worse.
“For this reason,” says the
’Wales, “if for no other,
attempts to foster national
development primarily by
monetary expansion are
doomed to failure and will
cause an actual weakening of
the resilience of the economy.
A policy of national develop-
ment is in fact a policy of
large-scale investment, which
in turn depends on large-scale
savings.
“The success of national-
development policy rests
largely on the means by which
those savings are achieved out
of current consumption. The
importance of stability of the
value of the currency and
acceptance of market rates of
interest cannot be over-
estimated in promoting an
adequate flow of savings.”
Future Development
The ’Wales says the extra-
ordinarily favorable terms of
trade in the last 10 years had
provided an enormous stimulus
to national development.
“But it would be unwise to
rely solely on a repetition, and
for the future, high living-
standards will depend more
closely on the efficiency of out-
put in Australia.”
The bank maintains that the
. strength of development of the


Cape York
\
QUEENSLAND
*
\
★
NEW SOUTH WALES
*
VICTORIA
Portland
"From
Cape York
to
Portland"
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Norman J.
Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton; F. S. Vine,
C.M.G. General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N.
Williams. Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and
Riverina: S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learinonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairmnni.
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairmnn > J
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. F. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson
Manager: A. B. Tilemann. Assistant Manager: A. G w"
Dent. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District RenreJ
H. B. Morison.
sentativo for Newcastle:
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E.
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon'
■ W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson. ’
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E N Jobsf
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT23a
1960’s depends on a high rate
of capital-formation, supple-
mented by high productivity of
labor.
With a larger local market,
economies of scale were pos-
sible and a more diversified
secondary industry should be
capable of supplying a larger
proportion of needs.
“But Australia will still con-
tinue to live in a wider world
economy, depending partly on
overseas capital and subject to
competitive standards in pro-
duction-costs,” the ’Wales
concludes.
Import Quotas
"VTo change in the overall level
of importing is being
made by the Federal Govern-
ment for the next four months.
This news last week came as
a pleasant surprise to those
who had anticipated cuts as
soon as the new Ministry was
formed.
Within the general overall
pattern of unaltered quotas,
some changes are to be made
to enable basic materials to be
bought in the cheapest markets
regardless of whether they have
to be paid for in hard or soft
currency.
This increased flexibility has
perhaps been made possible
by the buoyancy of U.K. trade
at a time when Australia’s
favorable balance has been
slipping. The “dollar pool”
may be comparatively flush
even though, for the present,
Australia is not contributing to
its customary extent.
Bright Felloes
■pROM the colorful presenta-
tion of the accounts and
report of the Commonwealth
Trading Bank for 1957-58, one
gathers immediately that the
economic wheel would bump
along pretty badly without that
part of the felloe represented
by the banking system or,
more particularly, by the Com-
monwealth Trading. Bank.
The trading-bank appears
to be as full of motifs as the
central bank is, necessarily, of
motives. The wheel motif is
used throughout the C.T.B.’s
pictorial report, which is of the
impressionist school, but which,
on the whole, communicates
quite readily. Sections of the
felloe drop-in or pop-up in
different colors on every page
to point-up some angle or
aspect of our wheel of fortune.
The impression given by the
artwork of the report is im-
pressive and inspiring right
through to the penultimate
page ; then on the back cover
the final pictorial item is
somewhat mystic: a squeezed-
up tube of artist's color merged
into a felloe. What manner of
felloe (or felly) is this?
Aust. Gypsum Products
A mong the better - class
second-liners, the £1
shares in Peninsular Plaster
(Melbourne), Victor Electric
Plaster (Melbourne) and Aus-
tralian Gypsum (Sydney) offer
high present earning-power
and solid asset-backing, even
though the immediate yield
(from a 10 p.c. div.) is only
£4 13s. p.c. at 435. for the
shares in any of the three
holding-cos.
Each has a similar equity
(in relation to its own capital)
in Australian Gypsum Pro-
ducts Pty., which is at present
financing a big expansion pro-
gramme out of earnings.
If the board’s hopes and
plans are justified by events, the
ending of heavy capital-
expenditure should be followed
by higher earning-power, and
with a return to greater
liquidity that could warrant
higher distributions to share-
holders.
“Market Realities”
/Commenting on Australia’s
capital requirements, the
Bank of N.S.W., in its
quarterly “Review,” notes that
the sustained demand for capi-
tal has intensified the competi-
tive conditions in which both
public and private borrowers
have had to operate. “Height-
ended market competition for
capital-funds and the curbing
of inflation have raised the
rates of return on savings and
have made investors conscious
of the importance of dividend-
yields as well as of capital-
growth,” the ’Wales adds.
This need to pay regard to
yield, so often emphasised in
these pages, has been given
sharemarket acknowledgment
only comparatively recently in
the case of the gilded front-
liners. For two or three
months now there has been a
reluctance to send the glamor
stocks up to their earlier peaks,
while there has been a forward
movement in many of the
second-liners. And at all times,
of course, there has been an
appreciation of 8 p.c. notes
from concerns like Bradford
Cotton, Felt and Textiles,
Gollins and Yarra Falls, and
p.c. from Waltons-Sears
Credit Corp., not to mention
the similar rates available from
well-entrenched hire-purchase
companies, and other concerns
seeking to obtain capital-funds
in a form possessing [to the
company] income-tax advan-
tages over share-capital of any
description.
In a period when capital has
been so short it has been odd
to see front-rank ordinaries
priced at such a high figure
that their immediate yield has
been around 3 p.c. and their
prospective yield, in the fore-
seeable future, not so very
much better. The reason for
the acceptance .of these low
yields has been the record of
share market “appreciation”
over the past five years, until


RALPH W. KING & YUILL
RALPH W. KING W. KEITH YUILL K. C. PHILLIPS
lAN C. WALTON GORDON G. KING
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange
113 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, BL 5771-2-3
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralphking” Sydney
Branches al Grafton and Armidale
Invest in
a
The longest established hire-purchase
company in Australia
Registered First Mortgage
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6 or 10 years
7%
4 years 6’A% 2 years 5'A%
Short Term Stock also available from
3 months at 3Va%
Assets exceed £47,000,000
Application Forms and Prospectus
O Any A.G.C. Branch O Your Stockbroker
O Bank of New South Wales at any Branch
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide • Perth
Hobart
A copy of the prospectus covering this issue of
£2,600,000 has been lodged with the Registrar-General,
Sydney.
72N
J. T. HARRY & DIXON
(Eric E. Dixon, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
1 I 3 Pitt St.,
Sydney
Telephone: BL 1987
Tel. Add.: “Harry Stock Exchange,” Sydney
investors have come to regard
“appreciation” almost as much
a regular thing as dividend-
income.
But obviously there must be
a ceiling to market-increment,
especially as the base, in the
form of cost of the shares,
grows bigger and makes, say,
a rise of ss. per share, com-
paratively, so much smaller.
Capital, in real terms, looks
like becoming scarcer, if any-
thing, with our export income
down this financial year. Cer-
tainly we shall not be getting
so much overseas capital in
the form of export revenue,
and the land industries will
have not so much money to
invest either in their own pur-
suits or in equity shares in
secondary industries or other
non-rural investments.
For this reason the need for
an eye well open to prospects
of a reasonable yield from
equity shares seems to be
doubly underlined.
Gadsden-Hughes Holdings
An offer of 11 10s. ord.
shares in J. Gadsden
(Aust.), Ltd., for every eight
Gadsden-Hughes 10s. ords. has
been made.
If the offer is accepted, J.
Gadsden will follow the take-
over with an all-round one-for-
eight cash issue at par.
Both cos. are makers of cans
and other packaging items;
Gadsden-Hughes with its h.-q.
in Sydney, J. Gadsden in Mel-
bourne.
J. Gadsden shares have
recently sold at 155., Gadsden-
Hughes scrip at 20s. 6d.
Gadsden-Hughes shares (9
p.c. div.) have had a higher
market-value than those of J.
Gadsden (8 p.c. div.) for some
time, and G.-H. has presented
the more attractive accounts
(B. 29/10/’5B).
What G.-H. shareholders
have to consider is whether the
37| p.c. greater holding in
J. G. that they will rec&ive will
give them an earning-potential
equal to what they are hand-
ing-over.
The merger, of course,
should bring operating
economies and other advan-
tages.
If all the plans go through,
J. Gadsden Aust., Ltd.,- will
have a capital of nearly £s+
million.
Automation and Jobs
/''VN the ground that in auto-
mated industries one
office-worker in five will
become redundant, the con-
ference called in Melbourne by
the Australian Council of
Salaries and Professional Asso-
ciations decided on a target of
a 30-hour week, elimination of
Saturday work, an immediate
reduction to a 35-hour week
(where it wasn’t worked
already), an extra week’s holi-
day a year and an earlier
pensioned retiring-age.
That ought to fix that!
Trans-Pacific Tourism
TThe day may not be far off
when it becomes the
Orient and Pacific: the great
shipping -company has spent
£B5 million in ships for the
Australian trade since the war,
continues to spend and invest
in Australia at an expanding
rate, and, according to one of
the P. & O. managing-directors,
A. J. M. Crichton, at a
luncheon in the Arcadia while
berthed in Melbourne, nine
P. & O. and Orient ships, in-
cluding the Arcadia, Iberia,
Himalaya and the new Can-
berra and Oria n a, will
eventually bring 40,000 U.S.
tourists yearly to Australia.
Dangar, Gedye
T ower wool prices and other
factors caused a steep drop
in the turnover of Dangar,
Gedye and Malloch, Ltd.,
during the second half of
1957-58, and after revaluing
some stocks “in the light of
today’s conditions” a consoli-
dated profit of only £3617 was
shown for the year (compared
with £46,890 in the preceding
term), and the final div. was
dropped.
There has been a crash in
the price of the co.’s £1 ord.
shares, which sold down to 175.,
and then buyers offered 125.,
sellers asking 18s.
The co. has an extensive
range of well-established farm-
machinery, including Lister
sheep-shearing machines, and
it had reserves (less intangibles)
equal to 14s. per ord. share
(ord. capital is £419,520, with
£175,000 of pref. money,
mostly at 5 p.c.) at June 30
last.
The co. is in the process of
shifting its headquarters from
Young Street, Sydney, to Rydal-
mere, where all activities will
be concentrated under one
roof. By the end of 1959 the
economies resulting from the
move should become evident
in the accounts.
It is anticipated that trading
conditions for the co.’s type of
business will continue to be
difficult for the next twelve
months, indicated by reduced
turnover for the co.’s agricul-
tural machinery at the present
time.
The shares at the prevailing
market price have an interest
for those prepared to wait for
their benefits.
T'vr. H. F. Craig, who has
made a 15-month survey
of automation in the U.S., says
Australia is on the threshold
of automation, with a delay of
only a few months to two
years, and that the major
problems in its introduction
will arise administratively.


Critical Outlook for Australian
Tin Industry
In the course of his address to shareholders at the annual general meeting
of Tableland Tin Dredging N.L., the chairman, Mr. G. H. Watson, said:
DISAPPOINTING YIELD TO INVESTORS
Profit for the year was £60,052, after providing for all mining
and administrative costs including £2,661 for depreciation, compared
with a loss of £29,006 including £2,875 for depreciation for the
previous year. While a substantial improvement, the result can
only be regarded as disappointing in view of earlier anticipations.
The total profit made by the company from the date of its
incorporation to June 30, 1958, amounted to £909,024, the total
amount paid to shareholders by way of dividend being £296,853,
or 4.3 p.c. per annum, on each pound of paid-up capital, which is
barely better than bank interest. The percentage return to ordinary
shareholders would be considerably less.
It has not been the policy of your board to charge in the
accounts against the results of each year depreciation or amortisa-
tion of the dredge plant and equipment, pipeline, powerline and
dams. Had such charge been made over the life of the undertaking,
it would have amounted to some £420,000, a figure considerably
greater than the credit of £200,451 at present held in general
reserve. Such a charge would have considerably reduced the
amount of the distribution to shareholders.
INEQUITY OF WARTIME PRICE CONTROL
The principal reason for the unsatisfactory return to shareholders
is that during the period of World War II and subsequent years
the company was obliged to sell its output at a price fixed firstly
by the Commonwealth and secondly by the State price-fixing
authorities, this price being substantially lower than world parity.
At all other times the company has been obliged to accept the
overseas or world parity price for its concentrates. The difference
between world parity and the price received by the company
amounted over this period to a sum of not less than £600,000,
which, if available, would have enabled the company to transfer
its dredge from Return Creek to Smith’s Creek area without the
necessity of borrowing £300,000 from the Bank of New South
Wales under guarantee by the Queensland Secondary Industries
Department and at the same time it would have been possible to
pay to shareholders a return comparable with that paid by tin-
dredging companies in Malaya.
Control was relinquished shortly after the overseas price dropped
below the Australian fixed price and since then we have been
obliged to sell our output at a figure based on the Singapore price.
Practically the whole of the company’s financial difficulties stem
from this period of controlled prices. To me it seems manifestly
unfair that the company should not have received better or fairer
treatment when the local and overseas prices were reversed.
LOW COSTS IN MALAYA
To my mind it does seem most inequitable that our company
should receive only world parity for its tin when the major portion
of the world’s supply is produced in Asia and other countries where
a plentiful supply of cheap labour is available. In emphasis of this
point, the cost per cubic yard for our dredge for the year just
completed was 20.268 d., whereas Sungei Bidor Tin Dredging Ltd.,
operating a dredge in Malaya almost identical with ours, treated
their ground at a cost of only 10.4 d. per cubic yard, or half our
costs. Further than this, the tin industry has no tariff protection
whatsoever, whereas in the case of, say, the motor industry, whose
main competition is from European countries with standards of
hying in keeping with or better than our own, a protective tariff
of approximately 25 p.c. on British and 35 p.c. on foreign imports
is imposed.
AUSTRALIA NEEDS TIN
Australia is not self-sufficient in tin production and imports a
substantial amount each year from Malaya, which is sold to
industries protected by substantial tariffs.
It is lecognised that the situation in the Far East is anything
but stable and it would be a very grave matter, particularly in the
case of the recently established tin-plate industry, if supplies from
that source were cut off. At this stage I want it to be clearly
understood that my remarks are not directed at any particular group
tor neither Liberal, Country nor Labour Party has done anything
to assist o<r protect, or even recognise the necessity to protect,
what is an important Australian industry.
The most tragic aspect of the situation is that your company has
been forced to leave behind considerable areas of tin-bearing ground
which, at the present tin price, would be unprofitable to work, and
this is a serious loss from the national viewpoint.
TIN NEEDS INCENTIVE
It is realised that it would not be economic nationally to impose
a duty on the whole of the tin imported in order to protect that
portion at present produced in this country, but surely some
arrangement could be implemented which would grant some
measure of protection to Australian-produced tin and ensure that
existing producers received a reasonable return for their output.
Such an arrangement would undoubtedly encourage expansion of
the tin industry.
The Tin Producers’ Association is at present endeavouring to
arrange with the Commonwealth Government to fix a minimum
price for tin hi Australia. Whilst this is a step in the right direction,
to my mind it should go much further and the economics of the
whole industry should be examined by the Tariff Board or other
appropriate authority with a view to placing it on a more stable
basis, so as to improve the prospect of equipping large potential
areas of tin-bearing ground known to exist in this country.
WATER DIFFICULTIES
The dirty water conditions which we have been unable to
improve substantially despite the expenditure of large sums of
money on slime-settlement schemes and investigations cause the
loss of much of the fine tin in the ground dug. When the leases at
Return Creek were first issued to your company, no conditions
were imposed in respect to the settlement and discharge of dirty
water from the leases. Subsequent complaints by the residents on
the banks of the Herbert River, in northern Queensland, resulted
in special legislation being brought down by the Queensland
Government which prohibits the discharge of dirty water from
our leases, and this necessitates the establishment of extensive works
on our property for settling water, the cost of which is upwards
of £20,000 per annum.
This problem is typical of that which always faces tin-mining
executives in this country. While it is readily agreed by your
directors that it is not reasonable to continuously pollute streams,
neither can we agree that they should be reserved as a domestic
water supply, otherwise all development of industries on their banks
in the hinterland would be precluded.
ASIATIC COMPETITION
It is fully realised that the Government has, with the fall in
price of primary products, many problems to solve, and it is not
the desire of your board to add to them. However, it does seem
ironical that the tin industry should be forced to compete with
countries employing relatively cheap Asiatic labour, while other
industrial activities have achieved their present high level of
prosperity and productivity as a direct result of the judicious
application of protective tariffs and subsidies.
SHRINKING PRODUCTION
It is my sincere hope that the activities of the Tin Producers’
Association will rectify the situation and enable the tin industry in
this country to expand to the extent that it will be unnecessary
to rely on imports of tin from abroad. Unless something practical
is done, and that soon, it is my considered opinion that tin
production in this country will disappear entirely when deposits on
which existing companies are at present working have been
exhausted.
ASSISTANCE BY TAX RELIEF
One method by which the Government could give material
assistance to the tin-producing industry would be to put tin in the
same category as gold and relieve it from taxation. This would
enable existing ventures to operate with some expectation of reason-
able profit and would permit the opening up of new areas of
tin-bearing ground which in present conditions it would be
uneconomic to equip and work. The practice in several other
countries is to permit mining companies to recover their capital
before being subjected to taxation.
Taxation relief, however, would be merely a welcome palliative
and the tin industry in this country stands in urgent need of the
strongest possible governmental assistance if it is merely to maintain
its present production level without any thought of expansion


ENTERTAIN IN STYLE
AT THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
• 6 Magnificent Banquet
Rooms
• Superb Service
® Excellent Catering
The friendly helpful advice of The
Hotel Metropoie’s experienced staff
will make your party planning a
distinct pleasure. You’ll find just
the atmosphere you want in one of
The Hotel Metropoie’s 6 superb
banquet rooms including... .The
Elizabeth R00m... .Princess....
Philip... .Windsor'and York. All
have been newly decorated in strik-
ing modern colours and tastefully
furnished! Yes, the Hotel
Metropole is fast becoming the
smartest and most fashionable
Hotel in Sydney! Cocktail party,
coming-of-age party, wedding recep-
tion or business function —the
comfortable, relaxed atmosphere, the
superb catering and service and
magnificent setting make your party
an occasion to remember at the
Hotel Metropole.
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Australia’s Largest and
Most Friendly Hotel
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P O.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Broader-minded Theatre
[From London]
While the Home Secretary
(for electoral reasons, it is
rumored) has refused to accept
the Wolfenden Committee’s
recommendations on amending
the law relating to homo-
sexuality, the Lord Chamber-
lain has removed the veto
which for too long has in-
hibited and angered serious-
minded lovers of the drama.
This means that an expressed
homosexual relationship or
inclination between characters
will no longer, per se, dis-
qualify a play from public
presentation.
It is an overdue reform. At
best, it will relieve playwrights
from the need, commercially,
of having to resort to circum-
vention and ellipsis where
minor characters are con-
cerned (as, for example, in
Rattigan’s “Variations on a
Theme”) and, at worst, it will
"It's all I do now since I found they Were only
buying my name .”
result in too many plays too
preoccupied with this matter.
In course of time the ban
will, no doubt, seem just as
short-sighted as now seems the
disgust with which people re-
coiled from Ibsen’s “Ghosts.”
As a subject for discussion,
whether in a play or otherwise,
hereditary syphilis is even more
unsavory than the other, but
its consequences are or,
thanks to medical and social
enlightenment, were not
made any less prevalent by
being suppressed. Moreover,
the resultant tragedy (“the sins
of the fathers.is a legiti-
mate problem for any serious
writer to tackle.
At all events, mixed audi-
ences are participating, quite
without embarrassment and
certainly without any sense of
depravity, in the Old Vic’s
revival of “Ghosts.” The great
pity is that this play has be-
come overidentified with its
theme. If, for instance, the
scourge of the Alving family
had been bowdlerised into
drink or tuberculosis the play
might rank as high in the public
estimation as others from the
same pen. It is no more a
factual documentary statement
of a social evil than it is a
tract of conscious propaganda.
It creaks, of course, with
age, and Ibsen was anything
but economical in his attacks
on conventional behavior. But
producers have a rare oppor-
tunity of shaping the charac-
ters and of bringing out the
symbolism. The shadow of
doom is in the tradition of
Greek tragedy, and _ the
reactions of mother and servant
to the hapless Oswald’s de-
cline are capable of develop-
ment far beyond the range of
the dialogue.
John Fernald’s production is
good, but not very enlightened.
One feels that he has fitted the
parts to the actors instead of
the other way about. Flora
Robson, though, is a “natural”
for Mrs. Alving and holds a
delicate balance between
courageous restraint and utter
breakdown ; but even so her
technique is, perhaps, more
assured than her integration of
the role (as when, for example,
she learns of her son’s being
“worm-eaten from birth”).
Pastor Manders is a harder
and more thankless part than
lago —a bigoted cleric who
also has to serve as author’s
deputy in the unfolding of the
plot—and Michael Hordern’s
interpretation is odd, mannered
and irrelevant. But it is in the
smaller parts of Regina (the
maid who, in reality, is
Oswald’s half-sister) and her
“father,” Engstrand (the con-
ventional Ibsen device to curdle
his audience’s blood), that one
feels the producer has failed
to meet his challenge.
Ronald Lewis’s Oswald,
from his confident entry to his
final gibbering lunacy, is a per-
formance of high tragic com-
pleteness and is one to note
down in the annals of great
acting.
❖ ❖ ❖
Royal Ballet
At time of writing the Royal
Ballet was continuing to add
cubits to its stature at He'
Majesty’s, Melbourne, one of
the virtues of the present
season being that when you
drop in at the theatre you
never know whom you are
going to see in this or that role.
The passionate performance
of Anya Linden, as Giselle,
brought tears of sheer joy to
the eye of this observer, but
so did the intensely dramatic
performance of Rowena Jack-
son in the same role. David
Blair was equally exciting, and
his ability to raise himself in
the air and remain there with-
out visible means of support
made one think of Nijinsky.
The glitteiing nonsense of
“Les Patineurs,” Frederick
Ashton’s ballet, has been
added to the programme. It
gives Donald Britten,, as the
skater in blue, the opportunity
of demonstrating that a
dancer can be superbly grace-
ful and, at the same time, subtly
witty.
Artbursts
Christmas Pudding
Sydney Macquarie Galleries
Christmas exhibition by various
hands might fairly be describee
as a Christmas-pudding. It )S
rather soggy; it tastes very
much like last year’s ; and there
are some threepences in it.
In less metaphorical terms,
not enough finesse, not enoug


ANOTHER PAGE
IS WRITTEN
RECORD RESULTS
NEW BUSINESS. New Life
Policies assuring £58,561,071 were
effected, an increase of 14% on
the previous year’s record. 15,384
Personal Accident and Sickness
Policies were also issued.
INCOME. The Income for the
year exceeded £23,500,000
£1,670,000 more than the previous
year a record increase.
SECURITY. The Society is in
an impregnable financial position.
The Assets increased by
£10,900,000 to the record total of
£134,000,000.
SERVICE. The Society renders
the maximum service to its mem-
bers. Last year £8,270,000 was
paid to policyholders making a
total in excess of £63,800,000 dur-
ing the last ten years.
ASSURANCES IN FORCE. The
total Assurances in Force in
the Life Departments exceed
£413,000,000; convincing evidence
of the confidence placed in the
Society.
MUTUAL LIFE SOCIETY
The Australasian Temperance & General
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited.
(Incorporated in Victoria, 1874.)
variety and not enough origi-
nality are going into the
abstracts; both abstract and
more conventional painters
endlessly repeat themselves.
The most interesting painting
is Drysdale’s “Youth at
Broome,” which seems like a
recapitulation of everything
Drysdale can do, rather than
a new departure. The warm
desert-colors, the flat town are
as before, and highly effective ;
the thin aboriginal youth in the
foreground is too loosely
painted: for even if ragged
paint helps to convey the im-
pression of ragged clothes and
ragged character, which was
doubtless the painter’s inten-
tion, it inevitably remains
ragged. It is possible to make
the same statement in a much
more solid technique.
Among the gleams of value
in the pudding are Dobell’s
tiny sketch for the Helena
Rubenstein portrait, Donald
Friend’s sensitive “Three Heads”
and Clifton Pugh’s gay if
rather shallow “The Nuptial
Flight of Butterflies,” an
adventure which has all the
freedom of an abstract and
yet makes sense.
A similar mixed Christmas
exhibition at the Clune Gal-
leries has works by John
Coburn, Thomas Gleghorn
and Frank Hodgkinson, who
are also at the Macquarie
Galleries; with further con-
tributions by John Passmore,
Fric Smith, Margo Lewers and
others.
♦2* * *
Archibald Prize
The Archibald and Wynne
competitions for 1958 will open
to the public at the N. S. Wales
Art Gallery on Saturday,
December 13, at 10 a.m.
the Sulman judges have
decided this year to recom-
p no awap d, and not to
* 1 j an y of the works
ft , er , ed f° r the competition.
: ‘ cb aS for " a des, 8 n for an
mtended mural”: “Few of the
th , entered conformed to
ne published conditions, and
snffl 6 d ' d were not of
eSftton...™" 1 warrant
* ❖ .$►
M w b ,?" me Exhibitions
festive the a PP roac h of the
galleria S ® a s 0 n Melbourne
in a 1 ln / ar,ab ly break-out
to draw\h f pictures calculated
mas I he eye of the Christ-
isasnH hpP l r - The custom
and in f 3S Christmas-card,
little Jr er days there was
Picture f dlstlnBUls lt the painted
P tUre fr °m the printed card


REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
77 pa
ASSETS EXCEED
£55,000,000
PAID UP CAPITAL
£10,000,000
Our Auditors, Messrs. L. B.
Wallace & Son, Chartered
Accountants (Aust.), wish to
state that as at 31st July, 1958,
the amount of issued Debenture
Stock was £23,346,000 secured
by a first floating charge over
the tangible assets of thu Com-
pany which amounted to
£58,626,014 at that date.
I.A.C. guarantees fixed quarterly income,
free of exchange
For full details, see Prospectus: your copy available
from Members of Stock Exchanges , 703 Branches of
A.N.Z. Bank Limited or I.A.C. Branches.
Underwriting Brokers:
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne,
Canberra & Sydney.
Trustees for the Debenture Stockholders:
The Perpetual Executors & Trustees
Association of Australia Limited.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
(Established 28 years)
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE
ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART
CANBERRA • NEWCASTLE
WOLLONGONG
GEELONG • BUNBURY
PI OH/27
A
lilitmL
adorned with holly-leaves and
snowflakes.
Allan Bernaldo’s show at the
Athenaeum best fulfils the
traditional conception. He is
a first-rate illustrator in the
Tom Roberts manner, but lack-
ing Roberts's penetration. His
mounted bushmen are as lithe
and as full of fire and vigor as
his horses.
The Kozminsky Galleries
have E. Vogel painting the
sylvan landscape, Westernport
and the Yarra in the Harold
Herbert manner sweet, pic-
tureque and pretty —but Vogel
is more erratic than Herbert
in the production of pictures
that catch the breath and the
eye of the average person.
The Australian Galleries are
hanging two shows, one of
paintings by leading exponents
of the idiom that is called
“modern,” and the other of
prints by Melbourne graphic
artists. The most fetching of
these are the linocuts and
colored lithographs of Mary
Macqueen.
Films
“The One That Got Away”
There is a good quota of
excitement in this story of the
exploits of Oberleutnant Franz
von Werra, fighter-pilot, and
the only German p.-0.-w. in
World War II to escape from
Britain and get back to
Germany. The film, a British
one, gives full credit to the
resource and tenacity of the
escapee and adduces evidence
that the German?, like our own
prisoners, had their escape-
' committees and their own
brand of ingenuity and camp-
humor.
Von Werra first got away
during an exercise-march by a
neat stratagem, but was recap-
tured at the point of exhaustion
in shocking weather. In his
next attempt, after a tunnel-
escape from a camp, he posed
a 5 a shot-down Dutch pilot and
almost succeeded in getting
away in a Hurricane from a
nearby airfield. Then he was
sent to Canada and, escaping
from a train, crossed the
frozen St. Lawrence during
a blizzard, got through neutral
U.S.A. into Mexico, and thence
home. Six months later he was
killed in an air-accident.
The’ film is a one-man show
with a talented young German
actor, Hardy Kruger, making
the escapee a rather likeable
character, virile, chockful of
confidence without being
arrogant, and unceasing in his
search for escape-opportunities.
At Sydney State.
❖ *X* *s►
“My Wife’s Family”
Every long - whiskered
mother-in-law joke known to
journalism and vaudeville has
been pressed into service in
this feeble comedy. Ronald
Shiner plays the loud-voiced
family friend whose efforts to
foil a female dragon when she
comes for an uninvited and
lengthy stay with her son-in-
law and daughter only add to
the confusion. The one gleam
through the murk comes from
some brief and neatly-limned
comedy by Robertson Hare, as
the henpecked father.
At Sydney Lyceum.


Have
you made your WILL?
FO?
o 5
Executors & Agency
COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in VictoMa in 1878
TR53.34
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Limited
Executor and Trustee under your Will, you safeguard your Estate and
secure continuity of service.
The Company, which was incorporated in Victoria in 1878, is empowered
by special Acts of Parliament to operate in Victoria and New South Wales.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following—
★ Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly witfc
some trusted relative or friend.
k Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
k Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLiGH STREET, SYDNEY,
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £ 976,220.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones-
J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0.. M.C.. VD • W E m'
Campbell; T. L. Webb. 1
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., <?.C. (Chairman); Sir LeslTe Morshead, K.C.8., K.B.E.
C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter; Rear
Admiral H. J. Buchanan, C.8.E., D.S.O.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Mutual Provident Society
TPhe various and unique benefits of life-
assurance cover a wide range of
needs. For those who have yet to build-
up an estate, the strongest appeal is,
probably, in the immediate protection
afforded dependants; for others, seek-
ing a secure method of saving, increasing
bonus-rates add to the attractions, while
associated tax-concessions (permitting up
to £3OO of premiums to be deducted
from annual income) strengthen the
direct investment - interest, particularly
for investors in the top income-brackets.
Individually, and through group super-
annuation - schemes, Australians have
been going in for life-assurance on an
increasing scale in the post-war years,
and in 1957-58 took-out more life-
assurance than ever before:
New Policies Issued (Excluding Annuities).*
Year to Sum Year to Sum
June 30, Assured. June 30, Assured.
-£’ooo. £’ooo.
1954 .. 286,687 | 1957 .. 425,335
1955 1.. 325,183 | 1958 .. 484,567
1956 .. 367,374 |
* Source: Commonwealth Bureau of Census and
Statistics.
In the first two months of the current
financial year 92,746 new policies were
issued (excluding annuities) assuring
£91.2 million, or £1.2 million more than
in the corresponding period of 1957-58.
Oldest and largest mutual life-office in
the British Commonwealth, the 109-year-
old A.M.P. Society claims a goodly
share of the record amounts of new
assurance taken-out over the last decade.
Impressive financial strength and com-
petitive premiums and bonus-rates have
assisted the A.M.P. to chalk-up a series
of record-breaking figures, and last term
(to December 31, 1957) the society wrote
new business equal to a third of that
written by all life-offices throughout
Australia. At the end of the year there
were 2.7-million policies on the books
assuring a total of £1424 million, in-
cluding £l3O million in bonuses.
The sum assured under new business
written last term jumped by £30.5 million
to £183.2 million, ordinary - department
policies accounting for almost 94 p.c.
of the record total:
Ordinary Department.
Total Ex- Written Added
Dec., Income. Claims. ' penses. Otf. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 20,328
Tax overprovided . . . . . . 1,672,793
’54.33,202,581 12,536,090 3,945,889 242,633 - Q
Exchange adjustment, £400,320 . ie,u//,04a
Surplus sale assets . . . . . . 44,991
’55.38,854,548 13,396,283 4,509,342 225,370 0 „ ....
Exchange adjustment, £255,049 .. 40,468,004
Loss sale assets . . reduction 19,636
Tax overprovided . . . . . . 100,000
’56.43,064,593 14,686.733 4,820,127 163,999 9Q 0., Q rlo
Exchange adjustment, £53,925
Surplus sale assets . . . . . , 112,478
’67.47,966,781 16,052,591 5,395,777 169,127„ fi , rr ros
Exchange adjustment, £193,658 iO,rou,o_B
Industrial Department.
Total Ex. Written Added
Dec., Income Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
Surplus sale assets .. . . .. 4,248
Tax overproyided . . . . . . 408 488
’54.7,209,131 3,570,600 1,426,334 45,232 1 9
Exchange adjustment, £80,274 .. J e,u»o,oyi
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 9,022
’55.7,385,720 4,144,989 1,509,300 43,925 ( „„ s
Exchange adjustment, £49,114 .. ]
I-oss sale assets . . reduction 3,781
’56.7,631,330 4,793,771 1,615,368 30,203 ) , ,„, rQ
Exchange adjustment, £9829 . . j I,J 8Z ’ oa
Loss sale assets . . reduction 15,378
Surplus sale assets . . . . . . 19,094
’57.7,689,639 5,654,556 1,627,350 28,980 1 o. - q 7 q
Exchange adjustments, £32,875 ..j d4o,e
Together the two departments lifted
premium - income by £3.2 million to
£40.7 million, and, after deducting £1.3
million for income and land taxes,
gathered in a net £14.9 million (up £1.7
million) in interest, divs., rents, etc.
Operating-expenses took 14.82 p.c. of
premium - income (less payments on
annuities) in the 0.D., as against 14.41
p.c. in the previous year, the ratio in
the more costly I.D. (where payments
on over a million policies are normally
collected monthly) rising from 27.56 p.c.
to 27.90 p.c. Extensive mechanisation
of accounting-procedures has played a
large part in checking the growth in the
expense-rate, which, as far as controllable
expenses are concerned, has remained
relatively stable over the last few years.
Mortality-rates continued to improve,
and, when all claims and expenses had
been met, £198,107 written-oft' fixed
assets and allowance made for exchange
adjustments (£226,533, up £162,779),
life filnds and reserves were £26.6 million
higher at £363.8 million.
Policy-liabilities, other than those per-
taining to certain contacts on the New
Zealand register, were calculated on a
2 p.c. net-premium basis in the case of
assurances with deferred participation,
2j p.c. where there was intermediate
participation, and 2j p.c. for other types
of policy, another increase in the effec-
tive net interest-rate (up 3s. lid. p.c.
at £4 Bs. 9d. p.c.) further widening the
margin between assumed and actual rates.
From this margin springs the surplus
from which bonuses are granted, last
term’s surplus reaching a record £12.9
million (up £l.l million), after sending
£750,000 to investment and contingency
reserve (nil in previous term) and cover-
ing exchange adjustments, etc:
1956. 1957.
Assurance funds* . . £337,200.831 £303,833,909
Actuarial liability* . . 325,324,947 350,914,244
Surplus .. .. £11,875,884 £12,939,665
Bonuses ~ .. 9,646,229 11,016,144
Carried forward as—
Reserve contingencies 1,709,000 1,200,000
lies, interim bonuses 70,000 75,000
Unappropriated '. . 459,655 628,521
* Include investment and contingency reserve,
£6,250,000 at 31/12/’57.
The bonus-rates adopted by life - offices
generally declined during, and imme-
diately after, the 1939-45 war with the
reduction in interest-rates offered on
Government securities. The subsequent
increase in interest-rates and a growing
investment in industrial equities has since
reversed this trend, and £ll million (up
£1.3 million) was allocated for rever-
sionary bonuses by the A.M.P. last year,
this record amount allowing a “substan-
tial increase’’ in the rates of bonus in
each department. The total amount of


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatinox” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Tilt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BVV 1771—8 W 8088
Telegraphic anti Cable address: “Brownhills.”
Telephone: BW 1465 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Slock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street - -- -- -- -- - Sydney
additional assurance created by the divi-
sion of the surplus was £19.8 million.
Over the past year several of the big
life-offices have moved into the fire-and-
accident field, and last June the A.M.P.
announced the formation of the wholly-
owned A.M.P. Fire and General In-
surance Co., Ltd., and the appointment
of United Insurance Co., Ltd., as
managing - agent. More recently the
parent co. released some details of its
proposed head-office, which will tower
370 ft. above Sydney’s Circular Quay
and cost in the vicinity of £5 million.
Total assets rose by over £2B million
during the year, the investment pattern
showing a small but continued drift from
Government securities and a more-than-
proportionate increase in the amount lent-
out on higher-yielding mortgages, etc.: —■
Government 1956. p.c. 1957. p.c .
securities'!' ..£147,326,967 42.4 £ 152,045,501 40.3
Mortgages . . 133,710,535 38.5 149,557,553 39.8
Loans on policies,
etc. . . 15,678,951 4.5 16,983,686 4.5
Shares and de-
bentures . . 34.038.420 9.8 37,059,818 9.9
Debtors, etc.{. . 5.653,955 1.6 6.002,701 1.6
Cash .. .. 4,564 1 5,174 ]
1 3.2 j 3.9
Freeholds, etc... 11,216,082 ] 14,742,730 J
Total assets.. £347,629,474 £376,397.163
Liabilities* .. 9,980,651 12,045,175
Net assets . . £337,648,823 £364.351,988
t Includes local and semi-Government securities.
J Mainly accrued interest and outstanding premiums.
* Other than liabilities under policies.
In the last four terms around £3l million
has been advanced to finance the pur-
chase or construction of houses and
approximately £8 million was used,
directly, for this purpose in 1957.
Mercantile Credits, Ltd.
Ti>roviNG-UP fast among the second-line
group of hire-purchase financiers,
Mercantile Credits, Ltd., has doubled its
h.-p. outstandings over the past 17
months and, last month, claimed total
receivables of more than £8,000,000. With
the demand for h.-p. finance growing
steadily, the co. is currently seeking
£1,000,000 on first-mortgage debentures
(its first such public offering) bearing
interest at rates ranging from 44 p.c. to
8 p.c.
In the scramble fof a share of the
new h.-p. business available, Mercantile
Credits has been faring reasonably well
and, as far as shareholders are concerned,
set a sizzling pace with its requests for
additional share- and note-capital.
Converted to public status in 1950 (15
years after formation), Mercantile Credits
made a three-for-two par issue in 1954,
and in 1955 raised £1,331,100 on £5O
6 p.c. notes, of which 4437 were converted
into ords., at par, in 1956. Since April
of this year the co. has gathered-in
£1,250,000 from 7 p.c. notes carrying
separate options, exercisable in 1961, on
250,000 £1 ords.; completed a joint (and
indivisible) issue of 7 p.c. notes and ords.
(10 notes and three ords. for every 10
ords. held) and announced a one-for-five
par issue, to be made next month.
On completion of the new issue the aff-
ord. paid capital will total £1,266,086, as
against £200,000 in the first half of the
1954-55 term. The new scrip will rank
for a fuff year’s dividend for the first
time in 1959-60, and maintenance of the
15 p.c. div.-rate, repeated for the sixth
year in succession last term, would caff
for £189,912. This is £16,718 less than
last year’s profit, which, of course, was
won with the employment of consider-
ably smaller funds than those now in
use.
Mercantile Credits is engaged in financ-
ing the h.-p. of household appliances,
furniture, new and second-hand motor-
vehicles, etc., in N.S.W., Victoria and
Queensland. The co. has strong connec-
tions with the retail trade, particularly
in Sydney, where it handles business for
Grace Bros., Anthony Horderns’ and
Mark Foy’s. Hardie Holdings, Ltd., and
other members of the Hardie group of
cos. hold, between them, about 25 p.c.
of the share-capital.
Earnings have climbed rapidly over
the last five years with the influx of fresh
funds, although, as might be expected, the
rate of growth has lagged a little behind
that of share-capital, the earning-rate on
average capital slipping from 29.8 p.c.
in 1954 to 27.3 p.c. in 1955, 24.6 p.c, in
1956 and 21 p.c. in 1957, before recover-
ing last term to 24 p.c.:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. ( —Dividends—, serves. serves.*
£ p.c. £ £ £
Tax overprovided, £6863 .. .. 37,178
1954 . . 59,709 15 30.000 29,709 66,887
Added intangibles, £7281 .. .. 59,606
1955 . . 95.695 15 52,500 43,195 102,801
i Reduction intangibles, £1605 .. 104,406
1956 . . 122,927 15 75,000 47,927 152,333
Reduction intangibles, £1892 .. 154,225
To provision long-service leave, £l6OO 152,625
1957 .. 152,820 15 108,278 44,542 197,167
Parent and Subsidiary.
Less goodwill on consolidation, £3389 193,778
Tax overprovided, £6498 .. .. 200,270
Added intangibles, £32.445 .. .. 167,831
1958 .. 173,194 15 108,278 64,916 232,747
* After deducting intangibles, £54,618 at 30/6/’5B.
Proceeds from last April’s note- and
share- issues came in too late to have
any great effect on earnings for the year
to June 30 last, but, operating under
increasingly competitive conditions, the
co. was stiff able to lift gross income by
almost 30 p.c. (£147,434) to £643,590.
However, higher expenses took care of
all but £20,067 of this gain, leaving net
earnings £20,374 stronger at £173,194,
after reckoning the Tax Commissioner’s
cut at a little-changed £102,893.
Income yet to mature jumped by
£646,547 to £1,130,167, and represented
16 p.c. of total outstandings, which would
appear to be more than adequate.
As is the case with most successful
h.-p. financiers, all but a small fraction
of the co.’s funds is tied-up in book-
debts, the financial soundness of any h.-p.
organisation resting basically on the
ability of its debtors to fulfil their obliga-
tions under varying economic condi-
tions. In this regard, agreements accepted
by reputable h.-p. concerns, such as
Mercantile Credits, are generally designed
to avoid the granting of “over-generous”
terms, which, in the long-run, are often
the most difficult to meet.
Funds raised in the latter part of last
term were mainly responsible for the big
jump in h.-p. outstandings (up £2,990,634),
deferred liabilities (up £1,250,000) and
current liabilities (up £1,151,701) and,
with the share-, note- and debenture-
capital collected in the current year, the
co. obviously expects another sizeable
leap in the volume of business handled: —-
1956. 1957. 1958.*
Paid capital .. £500,000 £721,850 £721,850
Reserves .. 173,009 215,951 287,365
Notes .. .. 1,109,250 887,400 2,137,400
Unearned income. . 441.283 483,620 1,130,167
Current liabilitiesf 1,358,291 1,799,428 2,951,129
Final div. . . 37,500 54,139 54,139
£3,619.333 £4,162,388 £7,282,050
Fixed assets .. 15,723 60,761 154,955
Shares other cos. 1,000 1,000
H.-p. debts, etc... 3,581.934 4,081,843 7,072,477
Intangibles .. 20,076 18,784 54,618
£3,619,333 £4,162,388 £7,282,050
* Parent and subsidiary.
t Includes deposits, sundry creditors, tax-provision,
etc.
Including scrip issued last September,
there was 245. 7d. in net tangibles -at
June 30 for each £ of share-capital.
Both share- and option-holders may
participate in next month’s issue, last
week’s price of 395. for the “old” £1
ords. giving the rights a theoretical value
of 14s. 4d., allowing for dividend differ-
ences, and. the scrip an ex-rights value
of around 355. 10d., to return 8.3 p.c.
from a 15 p.c. distribution. Slightly
cheaper entry may be made, at 375.,
through the “new” scrip, which collects
only a half of the next interim-div., while
the options, at 12s. lOd. are, perhaps, a
trifle dear in relation to the “new” and
“old” shares.
United Provisions, Ltd.
r pms company defies prediction ; the
year-by-year meanderings of United
Provisions’ profit suggest no familiar
statistical profile. On the credit side, how-
ever, no case of a loss appears in the
records.
Last term’s showing represented the
“high” mark to date, and the share-
market seems to think that this bacon-
curer and smallgoods-manufacturer at
last is getting on to firmer ground ;
but the ords. at 265. (ex-rights) still re-
turn a yield of 7.5 p.c. from the latest
10 p.c. dividend—B p.c. was the highest
rate previously—having been bid-up from
17s. 9d. earlier in the calendar-year.
Weighed against U.P.’s past history,
interest in the scrip at 265. is still some-
what speculative. Take, for example, this


G. H. PARTRIDGE & CO.
I-«. ». PARTRIDGE, A. G. HANSON
{Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
113 Pitt Street, Sydney Telephone: BL 5031-2
INVEST AT PAR !
FINANCE HOUSE OF 23 YEARS’ SUCCESSFUL
EXPERIENCE NOW OFFERS REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK!
Interest rates range from 8% p.a. long term down
to 4£% short term.
ass
BBS
iiMiivm
CBIBIVS 111
£1,000,000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK.
%
p.a.
5 to 10
years
HOW TO INVEST
Apply for Prospectus and Applica-
tion Forms to:—
• Australia and New Zealand Bank
Ltd. (Any branch in Australia.)
• Any member of a recognised
Stock Exchange in Australia.
• Mercantile Credits Ltd. (All
branches.)
OR FROM
THE UNDERWRITERS
J. B. WERE & SON
(Members of The Stock Exchange
of Melbourne)
INTEREST IS PAYABLE QUARTERLY AND IS
A FIRST CHARGE AGAINST THE COMPANY’S
TOTAL INCOME.
THIS IS A SAFE AND SOUND INVESTMENT FOR
FUNDS TO BE SET ASIDE TO MEET EARLY
FINANCIAL OBLIGATIONS SUCH AS INCOME
TAX OR, ALTERNATIVELY, FOR FUNDS
REQUIRING A REGULAR AND GENEROUS
RETURN OVER A LONGER PERIOD.
• • •
Directors of Mercantile Credits Ltd.
D. C. Cameron (Chairman), J. T. Reid, D. F. P. Roth,
M. D. Thompson.
Trustees for Debenture Stockholders
The M.L.C. Nominees Pty. Ltd.
Bankers for the Issue and Company
Australia and New Zealand Bank Ltd.
Solicitors for the Company
Allen, Allen and Hemsley.
HISTORY OF THE COMPANY
When entrusting his savings with a company or
corporation the wise investor looks at past records
and future prospects. Your attention, therefore, is
specially directed to page 4 of the prospectus.
CUT OUT AND POST COUPON
MERCANTILE CREDITS LTD.
10-14 Underwood Street, Sydney, or
55 Hardware Street, Melbourne, or
344 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Without obligation, please send me prospectus and
application form for your Registered First Mortgage
Debenture Stock.
Nam e
Address ....
State
8460
sample of earning-figures and
dividends as typical of the past
30 years’ trading:
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends— >, Re-
Sept.,Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
’52..119,430 8 6 93,000 394,499
Profit sale assets, £24.155. . 418,654
’53.. 86,737 8 6 93,000 412,391
Profit sale assets £152,761 565,152
Unexp’d reduction, £5OOO 560,152
’54.. 49,768 8 4 74,000 535,920
Profit sale assets, £26,887.. 562,807
Unexp’d reduction, £ll,OOO 551,807
’55..205,050 8 8 112,000 644,857
Profit sale assets, £129,135 773,992
Revaluation freeholds,
£354,460 .. .. 1,128,452
Accumulated long-service
leave, £30,000 .. ..1,098,452
Unexp’d reduction, -£6030 1,092,422
’56..122,363 8 8 112,000 1,102,785
Profit sale assets, £22,509 1,125,294
Unexp’d addition, £5l . . 1,125,345
Intangibles w/off, £28,308 837,037
’57..135,812 8 8 112,000 860,849
From special depreciation
reserve, £20,000 .. ~. 880,849
From sundry provs., £654 881,503
’58..221,505 8 10 131,000 972,008
* Subject to intangibles, £425 at
30/9/’5B.
The term’s remarkable improve-
ment stemmed from no overall
increase in sales —there was, on
the contrary, a slight eas-
ing, from £10,699,000 to
£10,459,000.
There was an increase in
operating expenses, £2,484,000,
against £2,422,000 in 1956-57 ;
and also up, by £109,000 to
£2,804,000, was the cost of raw
materials and stores purchased,
other than livestock and meats.
The higher profit seems to
have been more than a little
due to a flatter market for these
latter items, which were costed
at £4,851,000 (£5,366,000 in
1957); and it is on the level
of meat prices that the investor
depends a great deal for future
dividends.
Remaining as group net
profit after provision of"
£100,426 (£81,767) for income-
tax and £82,097 (£81,864) for
depreciation was the £221,505
shown above, which, after
deducting £36,000 earmarked
for the prefs., represents a
return of 19.5 p.c. on ordinary
capital.
This, of course, is quite
satisfactory, but it compares
with 5.3 p.c., 1.4, 17.4, 9.0 and
10.5 since 1953.
During the year there was an
easing in the rate of capital-
expenditure. Over the past six
years about £1 million has
gone into the re-equipment and
modernisation of the various
factories and production-lines,
and much of the financing has
been through the sale of
surplus freeholds.
But, in the light of recent
trends in packaging and
consumer-tastes, much remains
to be done, and further
development is proposed, for
which provision is being made
by the current ordinary-share
issue.
The issue is in the ratio one-
for-four, and the 237,500 20s.
ords. are payable in full by
March 2, 1959. Trading in
rights has begun, with sales of
4s. being recorded recently. A
10 p.c. dividend on a paid-up
ordinary capital of £1,187,500
presupposes a minimum con-
solidated net profit of £154,750,
which is well above past
average earnings, but was well
covered by last year’s result.
This introduction of fresh
capital will be the first since
J. C. Hutton and Foggitt Jones,
the ham-and-bacon and food-
processing people, fused their
interests back in 1927 to form
United Provisions, controlling
a number of factories through-
out Australasia, centred prin-
cipally on Melbourne.
At the outset, there was
issued £450,000 of 8 p.c. cumu-
lative prefs. and £950,000 of
20s. ords., a total capitalisa-
tion of £1,400,000, which has
subsequently proved dispropor-
tionate to the group’s earning-
ability, especially as depression
struck so soon afterwards.
Few changes show-up in this


Telegraphic &: Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
B. H. ALLEN
I*. IS. LEVY
M. K. L. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Slock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
dlli
First mortgage debenture stock
SHORT TERM
. 5 0 4
PER ANNUM
12 months 5%
9 A 1.0/
• • • “2 /o
6 . , . 4%
3 • • • 3^%
LONG TERM
7
O
O
5-10 years 7%
4 . . . 6|%
3 . . . 6%
2 . * . 5|%
GENERAL CREDITS LIMITED offers first mortgage
debenture stock on long or short term basis. Cumulative
stock carrying 6z% compounded on yearly rests with
currencies of 5 to 15 years.
Inieresl is paid quarterly free
of exchange.
Investors wishing to withdraw
earlier than the specified
term may do so in accordance
with the conditions described
in the prospectus.
PROSPECTUS:
Bankers are the Commercial
Bank of Australia Limited, from
whom the prospectus is avail-
able and from Members of the
Stock Exchange and Company
Offices at Corner Pitt & Goulburn
Streets. Sydney. Phone: MA 8276.
BROKERS: J. B. WERE & SON
Tbit it not a prospectus and does not constitute
an invitation to subscribe
10372/N.
year's balance-sheet. A desir-
able trend toward higher
liquidity is noticeable, with the
net sum owed the bank falling
f i om £ 1,141,048 to £914,670:
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1957. 1958.
Pref £459,000 £450,000
Ord 950,000 950,000
Reserves .. 860,849 972,008
Mortgage ~ 76,500 74,000
Overdraft . . 1,184,393 914,670
Creditors .. 359,168 313.648
Suspense account 461
Staff fund . . 27,999 17,457
Tax provision .. 74,837 100,952
Filial divs. .. 112.000 131,000
£4.096,207 £3,923.735
Freeholds, etc. 1.250,906 1,255,283
Plant, etc. .. 688,711 725,736
Shares .. .. 11,661 11.274
Stocks .. .. 1,491,206 1,308,638
Debtors . . .. 609,953 622,186
Cash . . .. 43,345
Suspense account 193
Intangibles .. 425 425
£4,096,207 £3,923,735
At balance-date, which was
September 30 for the parent, a
few months earlier for the sub-
sidiaries, each 20s. ordinary
share was well covered by 40s.
sd. of net tangibles ; and each
20s. pref. by 105 s. sd.
The name of the undertak-
ing, by the way, will shortly be
changed to Huttons, Ltd.
H. 8. Selby Aust., Ltd.
A sturdy, middle-class com-
pany with a niche all of
its own —that, from the in-
vestor’s angle, about sums-up
the house of Selby, a manu-
facturer and distributor of
laboratory apparatus and
chemicals, which has shown a
modestly (but increasingly)
prosperous front since its
shares first engaged the public
eye back in 1947.
For the past four years,
earning-rates on capital have
fluctuated around 17 p.c. Paid-
up capital was increased in
1956-57 by the par issue of
280,000 ss. ords., one-for-four,
and the final call of 2s. 6d.
in the terms under review
brought the level of share-
holders’ equities to £345,000.
And issued about the same
time was £150,000 of registered
unsecured 1{- p.c. notes, par-
ticipating to 9 p.c. and repay-
able on or before November
1, 1966.
The Selby people aren’t
exactly tyros in this class of
business, the forerunner of
which was founded in Mel-
bourne in 1903 by the late
H. B. Selby. At present there
is a distributing subsidiary
carrying the Selby label in each
State capital, and a manufac-
turing offshoot, Analite Pty.,
operates in Sydney and Mel-
bourne.
Earnings have been expand-
ing steadily and easily cover
this year’s 11 p.c. dividend on
the one-class capital. Profit
before taxation was £92,411
(£79,153 in 1957), after
doubling depreciation on fixed
assets to £12,959 (£6254). Set-
aside for taxation was £36,400
(£28,942), leaving net profit
£6673 higher at £56,289:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Re-
June, Profit. , —Dividends—serves.
£ £ £
1954.. 37,295 10 p.c. = 27,500 32,777
Profit sale assets, £25,382.. 58.159
1955.. 46,877 10 p.c. = 27,500 77,536
Profit sale assets, £25 .. 77,561
1956. .47,242 10 p.c. = 27,500 97,303
Profit sale assets, £595 .. 97,898
Goodwill written-off, £5318 92,580
Note-issue expenses, £5664.. 86,916
Share-issue expenses, £516.. 86,400
1957.. 49,616 10 p.c. = 29,950 106,066
Loss sale plant, £278 .. 105,788
Surplus sale freeholds,
£19,095 124,883
1958.. 56,289 11 p.c. = 36,900 144,272
A site in Sydney’s George
Street, whereon Selby had pro-
posed to erect a multi-storied
building, has now been sold
to an “organisation,” which
has been granted a £lOO,OOO
mortgage-loan for a term to
accord with the maturity-date
of the notes. Interest arrange-
ments aren't disclosed, but it
seems that the note-issue hasn’t
turned-out altogether an
advantageous proposition for
the group.
This sale, and that of former
factory premises in Sydney,
chipped £141,065 off the book-
value of freeholds, which are
shown in the accounts at 1949
valuation or at cost, less
depreciation at a low rate.
Apart from the new item, long-
term debtors, £108,531 and the
liquidation of the overdraft, no
more than the usual steadily
expansive movements appear
in the balance-sheet:
1956. 1957. 1958.
£ £ £
P;iid capital. . 275.000 311,364 345,000
Reserves .. 97,303 106,066 144.272
Mortgage .. 88,500 107,840 105,180
Overdraft . . 94,419 35,555
Notes .. 150.000 150.000
Creditors . . 92,786 126,719 125,019
Tax provision 45,397 36,890 37,400
Final dividend 16,500 18,600 22,425
709,905 893,034 929,296
Freeholds . . 240,590 327,514 186,449
Plant .. 38,111 57,489 64,337
Long-term
debtors .. 108,531
Stock . . 278,228 325,256 335,132
Debtors .. 149,674 180,096 212,402
Cash .. 3,302 2,679 22,415
709,-905 893,034 929.296
Despite difficulty with im-
port quotas, offset partly by
increased local manufacture,
sales by all branches are con-
tinuing to improve at record
levels, it is reported.
Selby’s ss. shares appear to
have definite prospects and at
9s. are attractively priced, to
bring an immediate yield of
6.1 p.c. from the latest odd-
sized 11 p.c. dividend. Tan-
gible cover for the scrip is
7s. Id.


WHALE INDUSTRIES LIMITED.
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS TO STOCKHOLDERS
Eighth Annual General Meeting to be held on Bth December, 1958
Ladies and Gentlemen,
The Balance-sheet and Accounts for the year ended 30th September, 1958, have been in your
hands for some days and, with your permission, I propose to take them as read.
The net profit, after depreciation and tax, for the year ended 30th September, 1958, amounts to
£150,364. As you will have seen in the Directors’ Report, an amount of £70,000 has been provided
for depreciation and £BO,OOO for tax.
Our total provision for depreciation is now £400,000 and this
figure has been built up during our seven operating Seasons.
Our total provision for tax now stands at £165,089.
After bringing to account a carry forward of £70,211 from last
year, we have available for appropriation £220,575. The Directors
recommend that this amount be appropriated as follows:
Firstly, a dividend at the rate of 20%, absorbing £107,000.
Secondly, a transfer to General Reserve in a Subsidiary Company
of £40,000.
This will leave a balance to be carried forward in out Profit
and Loss Appropriation Account of £73,575.
For some years we have been setting aside out of our taxed
profits a Provision for Deferred Maintenance, Ship Repairs and
Contingencies. The total provision at 30th September, 1957, stood
at £50,000. As we have been charging each year’s maintenance
costs, including surveys, against current profits, it seemed unnecessary
for further provision to be made. Furthermore, your Directors felt
that this Provision of £50,000 was, in fact, a General Reserve used
in the business and, as such, it should be transferred to that
account. This has been 'done and after appropriating £40,000 to
the General Reserve in a Subsidiary Company from the year’s
profits, our total General Reserve in the Group now stands at
£300,000.
As Stockholders know, our products are sold on world commodity
markets and these markets have been depressed during the last
twelve months. As forecast in my Address last year, there has
been a reduction in whale-oil prices in line with the reduction in
the prices of other edible oils. The reduction has been approxi-
mately 15 per cent. Our meat meals have also suffered a fall
in price in so far as our local sales are concerned, although there
has been little or no change in overseas prices. The net price to
us on overseas sales of both oil and meal is, of course, very
seriously affected by the disproportionately high and, in fact,
completely unrealistic, freight rates charged at present.
In spite of these substantial reductions in the selling price of
our products, the result for the year, we feel, is satisfactory. It
has been influenced not inconsiderably by the splendid condition
of the whales and by further improvement in our processing which
resulted in a record yield of both oil and meal.
1958 SEASON
Despite cyclonic conditions during the opening weeks of our
season, our permitted catch of 600 whales was completed in 65
catching days, which is only 3 days more than in the previous year.
During the first twelve days conditions were so bad off the Queens-
land coast that it was possible for us to operate at only ten per cent,
of our capacity.
VESSELS AND PLANT
Our three whale catchers again performed satisfactorily, as did
our plant, and this evidences the high standard of maintenance
which we carry out between seasons.
Although certain modifications were carried out to the plant, no
major additions were made during the year. Work is at present
proceeding for the replacement of portion of our steam-raising
plant. This will result in further savings in operating costs No
other capital expenditure is contemplated at the present time
1959 SEASON
We expect to commence our 1959 season early next June.
INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION
It was again my privilege, as a Member of the Australian Delega-
tion, to attend the Meeting of the International Whaling Commission
which was held at The Hague, Holland, in June of this year.
At this meeting, as at the last two meetings, a further attempt
was made by some Member Countries to amend the Convention
so as to allow an increase in the catching of humpback whales by
pelagic expeditions South of 40° South. I am most gratified to
be able to report that the proposed amendment was again defeated.
I should like to record our appreciation of the support received
from the Commonwealth Government in the provision of proper
technical and scientific representation at these meetings. The
Government and the Australian Association of Whaling Companies,
of which our Company is a member, have done much over the
past five years to safeguard Australian whaling interests.
TANGALOOMA MINERALS PTY. LTD.
In common with all producers of zircon and rutile, our associated
Company, Tangalooma Minerals Pty. Ltd., has been affected by
the substantial drop in metal prices.
The price of rutile today is quoted at £35 per ton f.o.b. and
even this price is nominal owing to long-term covering contracts
entered into by major overseas buyers a year or more ago.
As mentioned to Stockholders at our last meeting, the share-
holding companies (Z.R. Holdings Ltd. and Whale Industries Ltd.)
agreed when Tangalooma Minerals Pty. Ltd. was formed to limit
their invested capital to £l,OOO each, finding the balance of the
funds required by way of loans. It was also agreed that Tangalooma
Minerals Pty. Ltd. would not pay dividends to its shareholders until
these loans had been repaid in full.
The operations from the date of incorporation on the 11th
June, 1956, up to the 31st March, 1958, which includes 11 months’
production, after charging depreciation and after writing-off all
establishment expenses, disclose a net profit of approximately
£41,000 on which no income tax is payable. As a result of this
and of profits since that date, the loans made by the shareholding
companies have been reduced by a total of £79,000.
In view of the Company’s stocks and the facilities afforded by
our partner in this venture, Z.R. Holdings Ltd., the Board of
Tangalooma Minerals Pty. Ltd. decided to suspend operations at
Tangalooma for the time being. The Company still has contracts
on hand against which it is making monthly deliveries from existing
stocks and I anticipate that I shall be able to report to you at
this time next year that our loan to this Company has been further
reduced.
The Company has an excellent and modern plant at Tangalooma,
also extensive leases with proved mineral reserves.
CONCLUSION
Your Directors feel that the results for the year, although a little
down on last year, are most satisfactory in view of the fall in
commodity prices.
I should like your permission to send our grateful thanks to
all members of our Staff who have produced these results. We
look forward to next year with confidence.
I have pleasure in moving the adoption of the Directors’ Report
and Accounts for the year ended 30th September, 1958.


Presents
By JOHN HORNER
I was perched on my
favorite limb near the top
of the mulberry-tree. My
head and shoulders were
thrust through the foliage and
I had picked the blackest berry
and popped it into my mouth.
I squeezed it gently with my
tongue against my hard palate
and musingly savored the tart
juice that seeped down my
throat, clean and cool as the
dew that sparkled in the
summer-morning sunshine.
The dogs barked suddenly
and 1 looked up to see a light
spring-dray emerge from
behind the clump of wattles
along the road. The driver
squatted at the base of the
shaft on the side furthest from
me and I could not tell at first
whether it was a man or a
woman.
Then a voice, strong and
free and un-self-conscious as
any voice 1 have ever heard,
shouted, ‘‘l’ll tell your mother
on you, me young shaver. You
come down out er that!”
“It must be Mrs. Griggs,”
1 thought.
1 scrambled down from the
tree and raced up through the
vegetable garden towards the
backyard.
I had never seen Mrs. Griggs,
but 1 had heard all about her.
She travelled the countryside
with her son, Joe, her dog and
her chestnut horse. She and
Joe made tinware and sold it.
Generally, however, they lived
on what Mrs. Griggs cadged.
Stories of her amazing achieve-
ments as a cadger sprang up in
the wake of her spring-dray.
She could cadge your Sunday
dinner out of the oven, folk
used to say. They relayed
tales, too, of the robust and
imaginative vocabulary which
Mrs. Griggs let loose upon
anyone, man or boy, who tried
to cross her. She was a
character.
When I burst through the
hedge at the side of the house,
the horse was standing patiently
at the yard gate and the woman
was walking towards the back-
door. She carried a black billy
in one hand and a shiny baking-
tin in the other. I was sure
then that she was Mrs. Griggs.
People often referred to her as
Mrs. Tinny. “Keep your eye
on your house,” they’d say.
“Mrs. Tinny’s in the offing.”
A/fv aunt came to the kitchen
door and Mrs. Griggs held
the baking-dish out to her.
“Here you are, duck,” she
said. “I've brought you a
present. I don't want nothing
for it, love. Nothing! It’s
something Joe made for yer.”
Aunt May was profuse and
hearty and a little condescend-
ing in her thanks.
“That’s all right, love,” Mrs.
Griggs said, and turned her
attention to me, who stood
gazing at her, fascinated.
Her assortment of clothing
was decidedly peculiar. She
wore odd sandshoes, and her
stockings were wrinkled and
full of holes. One had fallen
below her knee. She wore two
dresses, and through the rents
in the outer brown one, which
Was far too small for her, the
second, of rich blue silk, was
visible. Below the uneven hem
of this her petticoat hung in
ragged loops.
A grey cardigan was pulled
tight across her bosom and
fastened with a gold wish-bone
brooch with “mother” written
across it in gold wire. Her
hair was pushed up under a
felt-hat from which a flower
drooped dejectedly. She didn't
seem to be dirty, and the total
effect was too fantastic to
seem merely untidy. Her face
was weather-beaten, but the skin
was clear and healthy. One eye
was permanently closed and
she now summed me up
shrewdly with the other.
“I saw you, sonny,” she said,
screwing up her eye without
quite hiding its brightness. She
laughed uproariously, throwing
her head from side to side and
slapping her thigh.
“What were you doing,
Jim?” Aunt May asked.
She never understood people
who laughed just for the fun
of it. She was a tiny woman,
very certain of her authority,
very sure of the difference
between right and wrong. She
looked questioningly from me
to Mrs. Griggs. Her position
on the back step brought her
eye to the level of that of the
other woman.
“Run along to my cart, Jim.”
Mrs. Griggs used my name as
casually as if she had known
me all my life. “There's a new
karosine-can there. You bring
it to me, sonny.”
I ran to do her bidding, feel-
ing that an honor had been
conferred on me. My concep-
tion of Mrs. Griggs had been
quite wrong. There was noth-
ing of the cringing beggar-
woman about her, nothing of
the wretched outcast stung to
vulgar retaliation by the taunts
of children or the slights of
their elders. Rude schoolboys
and indignant farmers wouid
have been to this woman little
more than incautious flies.
Even her vulgarity, I felt
vaguely, would have been
magnificent. I have since
learned that it was.
VX7hen I returned with the
’ * kerosene-can:
“Fill it for me, lad,” Mrs.
Griggs said. “There’s nothing
like a drop of good tank-water.
You're lucky, love, to have
ail these tanks.”
The last remark was
addressed to my aunt, who
agreed whole-heartedly, for it
was at her insistence that the
last two 1000-gallon tanks had
been put up.
“I s’pose you’ve got the
kettle on the boil, duck.” Mrs.
Griggs's tone implied that
lesser efficiency was not to be
thought of in my aunt's house-
hold.
“Both kettles are boiling,”
Aunt May replied, her casual
tone paying her own compli-
ment to her efficiency. “Do
you want some hot water?”
“Bless you, duck. If you’d
be so kind.”
My aunt took the billy and
entered the kitchen. I knew
her well enough to realise that
she had offered the boiling
water because she did not want
Mrs. Griggs to be able to say
that she had cadged anything
from her. She sternly dis-
approved of people who led
vagabond existences.
She approached the stove and
Mrs. Griggs put her head round
the door.
“Just put in a couple of tea-
leaves first, love,” she said.
I filled the kerosene-can and
had started to carry it to Mrs.
Griggs when she came and
took it from me. It had been
heavy for me, and awkward,
so that I had carried it with
my short legs straddling it. She
lifted it as though it had been
feather-light, and carried it with
her strong swinging stride
towards the cart.
There were some 'pieces of
cloth hanging on the wire-
netting fence. Aunt May had
used them to clean the kerosene-
lamps. Mrs. Griggs stopped,
pulled them from the fence
and' thrust them as a stopper
into the hole in the corner of
the kerosene-can.
“You'll make the water taste
of kerosene,” I said.
“Lord love you, sonny,” she
replied, “there's nothing I like
better than a drop of tea that
tastes of good karosine-oil.”
TT7E reached the cart and she
swung the can of water
into it. It was a nice cart,
freshly painted and in good
order. The horse was old,
but well-groomed and in good
condition. .A chaff-bag was
slung under the cart, attached
to the axle and the back to
form a hammock, in which lay
a sheepdog and a litter of pups.
“You've got a nice cart,” I
said. “Nice and clean.”
She chuckled and shone her
single eye on me. “Joe painted
it last week,” she said. “Joe
looks after it real good. Me
and Dad bought this cart before
he died, Jim. Fourteen-quid it
cost us.”


/ ,/M
wr”
' Give the pen you would lp§
be proud to own yourself
ISlk Onoto ‘99’
if
IT WRITES ON AIR!
Indeed a pen to be proud of and it does
write on air. An ingenious “breathing tube”
concealed within the ink reservoir takes
in air and uses it to maintain an even flow of
ink. Each stroke, each line is uniform
clogging, flooding, and ink failure are things
of the past. In addition to this
leakproof system, Onoto ‘99’ has a secret
filler hidden inside the barrel and a
handsome 14 ct. gold nib tipped
with costly iridium.
Colours: Black, Blue, Green, Maroon
or Grey. Price 42/6.
Onoto ‘99*
Pen and Pencil Set
The fabulous ‘99’ pen with matching
propellingpencil. Attractively boxed
for gift giving. 70/-.
ONOTO <99’
42*6
099.83.118
Her pride in the ownership of
the spring-dray seemed to
make it even more valuable
than the £l4 suggested to me.
It was a shock to hear that there
had been a Mr. Griggs. I pic-
tured a small, meek man with
drooping whiskers.
She took two gleaming
bread-tins from the small pile
in the dray and we walked
back towards the house.
“Joe made these,” she said.
“He does a real good job.”
My admiration was genuine.
“He's a good boy* Joe is.
He wants some more karosine-
cans. I s'pose you often have
empty ones in the shed.”
“There’s one there, any-
way,” I said, feeling guilty both
because I knew that there were
three and because I knew that
my aunt wanted them for
buckets.
“I must git some chaff for
me horse, too,” she said,
casually.
“We’re right out of chaff,”
I said, and she laughed her
hearty laugh.
“That’s real bad,” she said.
My aunt was standing at the
door with the steaming billy in
her hand. “Bless you, duck,”
Mrs. Griggs said without
attempting to take it. “You
put a bit of sugar in it, didn't
yer?”
“Did you want sugar?”
“1 don’t care for meself,
love. But Joe, he can’t stand
it without a bit of sugar. Just
a couple of spoonfuls, duck,
bless you,” Mrs. Griggs called
after my aunt, who was already
on her way to the sugar-tin.
'T'he sight of my aunt literally
* trotting to do Mrs. Griggs’s
bidding was a revelation to
me. I had become used to
seeing people hurrying to obey
her commands. There was a
good deal of the autocrat about
her and she used the lash of her
tongue freely on those of
whose way of life she did not
approve. She was particularly
merciless with those pedlars of
unpopular religions who had
the temerity to offer her their
literature.
“That looks lovely, duck,”
Mrs. Griggs said.
She took the billy, and from
the bosom of her cardigan she
produced the lid.
“Now,” she said with an air
of getting down to business,
“you make ver own bread,
don't you, duck?”
“Indeed I do,” my aunt
replied. It was a virtue she
prided herself on. But I could
see that she was on the defen-
sive, too, for she added, “It’s
baking-day tomorrow.”
“I thought you did. So I’ve
brought yer these.” Mrs.
Griggs produced the two bread-
tins she had brought from the
dray. “Joe, he makes ’em, love.
He made that baking-dish- I
brought you. I don’t want
nothing for it, mind. It was a
present for you. Now you
take these.”
Aunt May accepted them
graciously. “Joe makes them
very nicely,” she said.
“Me and Dad taught him,
love. He's quick to learn, Joe
is. Jim here sa'ys you’ve got
some empty karosine-cans Joe
could use. Run and git them
for me, will yer, sonny?”
I saw my aunt about to
protest, when Mrs. Griggs said:
“Missus up at the next farm
give me a lovely lot yesterday.
There's a good Christian
woman for you, love!”
I stood hesitant, waiting for
a direction from my aunt. I
didn't like now to say that I
had told Mrs. Griggs that there
was only one empty can. Aunt
May boasted that she had never
told a lie in her life.
“I expect there are two or
three down in the old dairy,”
she said, hiding with her
magnanimity her momentary
hesitation.
I darted to get them, glad
that my despicable attempt to
deceive Mrs. Griggs had not
succeeded.
“Put them in the cart, sonny,”
Mrs. Griggs said when I
arrived with the three cans
thundering together.
I did so and returned to find
the two women in earnest con-
versation.
(Continued on page 61)


Look Who's Talking
AIRBORNE
ECCENTRICS
By JACK LUSBY
“Ground-guidance moving
in ...”
With ground - guidance
moving in on avi-
ation, and the air-
borne human element
moving out, a saddening
thought arises: What is to
become of a most peculiar race
of eccentrics that only the air
produces?
It seems certain that no
endeavor on land or sea, over
the air period, has attracted
so many off-beat adherents.
However, in the days ahead,
it seems most unlikely that an
electronic-brain will whimsi-
cally play ragtime on a row
of push-buttons, sending jets
or rockets upside-down in line-
astern across the home field or
slow-rolling under the Harbor
bridge.
The first blokes to give fly-
ing a go had to be crazy.
Fortunately, their attitude to
the business has come down
through generations of aero-
nauts in the form of big or
small oddities of behavior
which keep scores of later men
fresh in the memory.
A random flashback to the
start of the century gives
us Brazilian fashion-plate
Santos Dumont calmly cruising
over the streets of Paris, flower
in buttonhole, waving a languid
white-gloved hand to the
boggle - eyed boulevardiers
below. ,
Pegoud and Fokker screw-
ing-up every ounce of faith in
their winged coracles and
performing the first loops.
In Sydney, Harry Houdini,
cap back-to-front and lashed
down, giving Mrs. H. a dead-
pan kiss before take-off.
Houdini simply regarded flying
as another trick to be mastered.
Also in Sydney, Bill Hart,
strapped to a contraption
similar to Houdini’s, teaching
himself to fly up and down
over the Parramatta River. The
river at that stage looked a
softer thing to hit than the
land.
Gaining Australia’s No. 1
pilot’s licence, Hart taught
Lebbeus Hordern to fly.
I.ebbeus was so impressed with
how hard the ground looks
from a low-flying aeroplane
that he never flew anywhere
else but up and down the
river. The luck seems to have
held —haven’t heard of any
ditchings by those very early
birds.
"VFo need to dwell on T4-TB.
That war filled the skies
with madmen. The aeroplane
had arrived. And, like magic,
the essential airborne eccentrics
came hatching out like day-old
chicks.
A great many of their names,
tied to exploits and incidents
bizarre, fantastic, heroic, whim-
sical and impossible, have
come down to us of a newer
generation.
A goodly number of those
“chicks” are still with us —for
the most part remarkably
robust, cheerful and young in
mind.
They crystallised the quality
of unconventionality, de-
manded in their day by the
new element.
'T'he ’tween-wars ocean-
flyers need no listing.
They were considered so
eccentric that financiers and
backers turned pale at the
sight of them.
Through sheer cussedness
they wore-down opposition and
got going; and the majority
got to the other side and were
half-stunned by the cheering.
Smithy is said to have given
beer away and gone to a
gymnasium for some time
before a long flight. Mollison
simply stayed later at the
parties. Chacun a son gout.
Both tastes in training
would seem eccentric enough
to some of us. Anyway, both
men made a habit of getting
to the other side.
Also qualified for inclusion
here on one occasion, at
least —“wrong-way’’ Corrigan.
/''Jood to see earlier this year
a revival of the air-
pageant.
Air-pageants back in the
’thirties gave the Aussie public
a chance to see the leading
eccentrics at their colorful best
—close-up!
On these special days at
Mascot types like Littlejohn,
Shortridge, Mollison and a few
more were wont to stunt
violently for about 20 minutes
without rising above flagpole-
height—and frequently, in fact,
bouncing off the ground!
At one pageant I saw an air-
race over a tight triangular
course. There was a big field
—a few I recall: Bunny
Hammond, Rupert King, Jim
Broadbent, Goya Henry,
Frank Follet, Shortridge,
Littlejohn, and, I think, Dave
Smith.
The rules were simple: any-
one coming below 20ft. would
be disqualified. There were
some disqualifications!
The jockeying for position
and bunching at the turns —all
at almost ground-level was
something to see.
At each corner Hammond
did a spectacular skid high
out of the ruckus, and dived
at the next turn.
Everyone had a different
idea about getting around
smartly. And the whole show,
as a spectacle, left dirt-tracks
and hot-rod races for dead.
Also, these pageants were
remarkably free from mishaps.
The eccentrics knew what they
were doing.
Touring this period the
brothers Clancy produced
a home-made monoplane
Houdini —moving out.


powered (?) with a four-
cylinder Henderson motorbike-
engine.
The Clancys transported the
little plane to Mascot and
looked for a pilot to test it.
They got so many enthusiastic
refusals that Goya Henry
decided to be perverse, and
took the baby aloft.
It flew well until the Hender-
son engine gave up the ghost,
leaving Goya a Chinaman's
garden to land in. He finished
upside-down, his face within
kissing-distance of the cab-
bages.
With the engine compres-
sion improved and some
minor repairs the Clancy plane
became a feature of the air-
scape, even stunting at
carnivals.
Tn the ’thirties a middle-aged
A doctor used to frequent the
Macarthur-Onslow drome at
Camden. He had a Gypsy
Moth plane and an interest in
gliding. Also a streak of
scientific curiosity.
One sunny Sunday morning
the doc. listened for a while
to a lackadaisical discussion
about how slowly a Gypsy
Moth could fly. To settle the
point he ambled to his plane,
got it started, took to the air
and came tootling back across
the grass so slowly the breeze
must have been blowing on
the back of his neck.
Suddenly— crash !
The doc. walked out of the
wreckage and the dust, calmly
picked up that day’s Ginger
Meggs comic, and, settling
himself down in the shade of
a hangar, studied it with
interest.
TJere, too, there was a
Chinese market - garden
close handy, screened from the
drome by a belt of trees.
Should mention that at the
time we often used side-slips,
S-turns and such fancy stuff
when landing.
Two instructors boarded a
Moth to demonstrate just how
close to the ground you could
side-slip before straightening-
out. They selected the Chinese
garden as an aiming-point, and
came side-slipping down beau-
tifully, disappearing behind the
trees.
A cloud of dust rose in the
air, accompanied by a loud
expensive noise. A truck-crew
raced to the spot, but could
hardly hear the “survivors”
instructions above the angry
chattering of the Chinese.
The survivors’ instructions:
“Chuck a tarpaulin over it and
let's go to the pub for a beer!”
/~\ne ray of sunshine — it
seems impossible that the
push-button technique will
ever do much good in New
Guinea. There, in the ’twenties
and ’thirties, Australians per-
fected a hair-raising and unique
kind of flying.
It’s still the only kind of fly-
ing that works in the mountains
and clouds of N.G. The
regular airline pilots call New
Guinea charter-work “the last
outpost of Dick Tracy flying,”
and wouldn’t have a
bar of it.
High-priest of New
Guinea eccentrics Jerry
Pentland, when I last
saw him in ’54, was
fondly watching rain fall
bang on a patch of
coffee. Like Bunny
Hammond, Pentland
flew through both World
Wars and spent the years
in between dodging
mountain and cloud in
N.G.
Considering what the
current madmen are do-
ing over the high island
it may well be aviation’s
last outpost against the
robots.
When one of the old
hands already mentioned
was living at Cronulla
Beach he took-off from
the sand on Gunna-
matta Bay one evening
and flew to town to a
party. White tie and
tails.
Judging his tide, he
landed back on Gunnamatta iri
the wee sma’ hours. Dragged
the Moth above the high-tide
mark, still in tails, etc., and
strolled along to his Cronulla
home. Locked out. Tapped on
doors and bedroom window.
Clammy silence from ever-
loving wife. So our man
walked back to Gunnamatta
and composed himself to
slumber in the cockpit.
A mong cheerful breakers of
rules and regulations first
Flying Doctor Clyde Fenton
can hardly be ignored. Clyde
is still easily recognisable by
a nose much-broken against
instrument-panels and cockpit-
rims, and a two-inch stub of
cigar sticking out of his grin.
It’s told of Fenton that he
was yarning in Alice Springs
with the hospital matron when
she was handed a pedal-radio
message: a lubra at an outlying
station needed a Ccesarian
operation.
“Nothing to do with you,
Clyde,” said the matron. “It’s
pitch-dark, and there’s no
place to land there.”
“Room to prang there,
though,” quoth Fenton.
He duly pranged there, and
performed the op. The wreck-
age and Fenton returned by
truck some days later.
Another typical Fenton
effort: His sister became ill in
China. With no visas and
with a Government veto on
the flight, Fenton left Darwin
in his much-repaired old
Moth. Avoiding airports and
major aerodromes, where
officialdom lurked in waiting,
he got to China.
“Within hissing-distance of the.
cabbages ...”
But most of the Fenton
stories only Fenton has been
game to publish, in his book
Flying Doctor.
YX/’orld War II got countless
thousands of untram-
melled types into the air. Some
Selection Board questions, and
the right answers:
“Married?”
“No.”
“Engaged?”
“No.”
“Ever been booked for
speeding?”
“Frequently.”
I like the pupil at Narro-
mine (N.S.W.) who was prac-
tising forced landings in a
farmer’s paddock, and struck
a tree while still 40ft. up.
Some of the Tiger Moth
remained in the tree. The rest
disintegrated en route across
the paddock. The pupil
phoned his report of the acci-
dent from the farm-house.
“O.K. Stand by the air-
craft,” he was told.
“Yes, sir. Any particular
bit ?”
AT Wagga a pupil found his
Wirraway still spinning
enthusiastically with only a
couple of thousand feet to go.
He got out.
Group-Captain (then)
Scherger spotted the lad return-
ing wearily on foot with an
.armload of silk.
“Where’s your aircraft?”
asked Scherger.
“I don’t know, sir. T got
out and left it up there.”
Pupils were told to call their
moves to the instructor, such
as: “All clear left, sir. Turn-
ing left.” Or: “All clear right,
sir. Turning right.”
One youngster came out
with: “All clear below, sir.
Turning upside-down.”
At an air-fighting school in
Egypt there was always a
low, thick morning fog.
One instructor used to test
flying-conditions at dawn. His
idea of testing visibility was
to turn-on his Hurricane head-
lamps and come slow-rolling
through the mist about tent-
high. A weird and frighten-
ing thing to see.
Heard that after the war he
was seen selling brassieres in
Belfast. This I do not believe.
A sure-fire claimant for in-
elusion in this company
was “Windy” Gale, a W.O.
navigator with Australian
Wellington bomber 458
Squadron.
About the end of 1942
Windy’s crew took-off from
Benghazi to drop mines by
Tripoli mole. Apart from the
mines, Windy had put on board
two 2501 b. bombs “for luck.”
The weather was so bad near
Tripoli that a nearby Ju. 88
was too worried to spot the
Wellington.
“Just about over target,”
Windy informed the skipper.
“I reckon a couple of
minutes to go,” replied the
skipper.
So Windy dropped a 250 to
see what happened. Nothing
happened. Windy dropped the
second 250. This hit bang on
Castel Benito, main Tripoli air-
field.
As the concentrated flak
closed-in on the madly jinking
Wimpy, Windy was heard
exulting: “That's navigation
for you!”
Navigation by bomb!
Windy got a D.F.C. before
the end, which came to him
near Malta. Despite a couple
of grim tours over Europe
before coming to Africa he was
ever a cheer-up merchant.
Coming out of anaesthetic after
an appendix op., Windy
blasted the ears of all and
(Continued on page 64)


Local Tolor
By
MARGARET
LUSON
The large, finny, cream-
colored car had left the
main road some miles
back ; through the
tinted windscreen and the shut,
tinted windows the two people
within saw the flat, grey
paddocks give place to hum-
mocks stuck like pincushions
full of ringbarked gums, and
then, gradually, to the darkly
forested folds of the high hills.
The car swam so smoothly
along the thin, twisting tape of
the road that the man and
woman might have been watch-
ing a travelogue from their TV
armchairs.
Occasionally the woman
said: “Wild, isn’t it?” And the
man answered : “Real bush,
all right.”
When the road forked, and
a signpost indicated “The
Gorge,” the man slowed and
glanced at the woman : “Up
there?”
She nodded. “Might as
well.”
The car swam more slowly,
less smoothly, for the next few
miles. “Lousy road,” com-
mented the man.
“You’d think they’d do some-
thing about it,” said the
woman.
Finally the car emerged from
the forest and surmounted the
bald crown of a crag
encompassed by the range of
hills ; below, the crag swooped
into the vast, eternally sunless
cleft of the gorge.
The man and the woman
looked in silence ; had they
been watching the TV travel-
ogue, a tense, rich-toned voice
would have informed them
that the colossal magnificence
of this stupendously beautiful
panorama of unparalleled
grandeur was unequalled in any
hemisphere.
“Quite a place,” said the
man. “Like a walk?”
“Might as well,” said the
woman.
They climbed out of the car
stiffly, like passengers emerging
from a long-distance airliner.
“Chilly up here,” said the
woman, pulling her coat round
her.
“Be warmer down there,”
said the man. “Out of the
wind.”
They set off along a path
that descended gently between
fuzzy clumps of tea-tree, skirt-
ing the huge, naked scarp of
rock.
XXelly-down, clinging to f he
lowest bluff of the rock,
the boy felt quite alone, not
only in the gorge but in this
whole universe of silent, tower-
ing hills. Soaked in the slanting
shafts of the winter sun, deaf-
ened by the tumbling rush of
the river below, he was utterly
content, and utterly absorbed.
He was completing yet
another stage of his epic
journey of exploration, and it
was important for him to reach
the river soon, otherwise he
would perish of thirst; days
of traversing the great un-
trodden ranges without water
had caused his tongue to swell
so badly that it protruded from
his cracked lips—he licked the
warm, rough surface of the
rock and waggled his tongue,
squinting to see if it was pro-
perly black, but seeing only the
red, sweaty tip of his nose.
He continued to inch down-
wards, his fingers clawing at
small, almost imperceptible
bulges, his dangling feet feel-
ing for ledges —just as he had
read in books about rock-
climbing.
His mind teemed with
muddled lore he had heard,
read about or seen in western
films, and so, remembering the
one dusty jelly-bean in the
pocket of his jeans, he dug for
it and rammed it into his
mouth; it was, of course, a
pebble, and the act of sucking
it would lessen the torment of
his thirst.
He was really thirsty, so
he had to pretend not to be
glad that the pebble obligingly
dissolved into lemony sweet-
ness. '
Though he wouldn’t die of
thirst now that he was so near
the river, there were other perils
—he might slip and fall, he
thought, with macabre
pleasure ; he would bounce off
the bluff of rock, crash among
the tree-ferns that canopied the
bottom of the gorge and, when
the frail umbels broke under
his weight, he would plummet
into the pent, raging water,
there to be tossed up and sucked
down and spewed, lifeless, over
the falls two miles away.
Maybe his body would never
be recovered —or maybe Mum
and Auntie Edna would find it
floating in the pool by the
picnic-ground ; when they took
it home, maybe Dad would be
sorry to have gone off fishing
in the bay and left him to
endure Auntie Edna, who had
kissed him and called him
“Lambie” and told him what
lovely blue eyes he had in
front of all his mates ... it
would take him weeks, and at
least two fights, to live that
down.
The boy slithered the last few
yards down the bluff, clambered
over some boulders and dis-
covered the unmapped river by
taking a long jump to the
muddy flat.
TT was then that the dog came
bounding towards him.
. It was a very big dog, with
the tawny-and-black coat of an
Alsatian, but a mong.’s wide,
foolish grin, flapping ears, and
curled, plumey tail. In spite of
its size, the boy knew that it
was only a puppy from the
disproportionate length of its
ungainly legs, and the soft,
boneless feel of the body that
hurled itself affectionately upon
him.
“Hi, pardner,” said the boy.
He sank his hands into the
warm, loose folds of skin
round the thick neck, and the
dog licked his face and tried
to chew the brim of his cow-
boy hat; it pranced around
him, uttering strangled sounds
of ecstasy, begging for play.
“You’re beaut.,” the boy told
it. “You’re kind of a real dog.”
The dog, as if it understood,
said enthusiastically: “Yep!”
The intrepid explorer was
no longer alone. From now on
he would be accompanied in his
adventures by his faithful dog,
whose life he had saved from
a terrible rogue ’roo, and who
understood every word he
whispered in its flapping ears.
“See?” whispered the boy.
“You’re my pardner.”
“Yep,” agreed the dog.
A nother epic journey of
exploration began, this
time to trace the unmapped
river to its source; they
crawled under the sapling
ferns, over fat, rotting tree-
trunks slimed with moss,
negotiating slabs of rock
sprayed with river-spume.
When they came to another
small, open flat, the boy
stopped, holding the dog by
the scruff of its neck.
“Sun’ll be going down soon,”
he said wisely. “We better
make camp here, pardner. We
gotta build a fire and rig a
snare for echidnas. How’d you
like echidnas for tucker?
Cooked the right way they
taste good like chook” —-
he broke off, for the dog was
wagging its tail, cocking its
ears, and whining.
Because of the roar of the
river the boy had not heard
the man and woman coming
down the track ; now, follow-
ing the dog’s gaze, he saw
them standing and watching
from above ; their white, waxy
faces looked, he thought, like
new cakes of soap in the green
half-light; he wondered why
they were staring at him so
intently.
Then the woman spoke in a
high, clear voice, to no one in
particular.
“Local color,” she said.
“How sweet.”
“Fit in, don’t they,” said the
man. “Suit the place.”
The boy eyed them, puzzled,
and somehow acutely em-
barrassed.
The dog lolled its tongue
(i Continued on page 58)


start the day right!
’ *
mm
■
IToloi« c
shSSimc
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Cricketers
Before they started on this
first Test in Brisbane who
would win the series looked
anybody’s guess. After two
full days’ play, on Friday and
Saturday, that question seemed
to err a little on the side of
flattery.
It being an England-
Australia cricket Test-match it
had from the start the advan-
tage of a natural dramatic
element that no other “game”
■—not even a close Davis Cup
final —ever seems to hold . . .
in this part of the world, at any
rate. So, near-record crowds
sit tense in the broiling Bris-
bane sun simmering with excite-
ment at the spectacle of two
days of struggle that would
be damned with every synonym
of dullness in, say, a Sheffield
Shield match—England all out
on the first day for a scratchy
134 on the board, and at the
end of the second day Aus-
tralia six down for an arduously
built 156.
May won the toss and
“elected to bat,” as June, July,
October or any other name on
the calendar would have done
had he been England's skipper.
A bright, fine day, already
getting hot ; the ground—and
pitch looking ideal for a
good day’s bright cricket ; the
only shadow anywhere the
remote but compelling one of
what happened to Hutton when
he guessed wrong about the
Brisbane wicket. So May sent
in Richardson and Milton, and
should have been feeling' con-
fident about it, too. And then
came Nemesis and Calamity
arm-in-arm, disguised rather
effectively as Davidson and
Meek iff, and both England
openers were out at 16! And
then the scratch started, and at
lunch it was 2 for 36, scored
in an hour and a half.
It was somewhere about this
stage of the drama, or pro-
ceedings, that experts began
to say unchivalrous things
about the wicket. She was, they
said, playing-up. She was wear-
ing a green patch ; indeed two
green patches. Very unsport-
ingly, she was “favoring” the
Australian bowlers. What they
were able to do with her
doesn't bear repeating and
her. so young. She was lively,
not to say skittish ; and thus
she behaved all day long, out
there in the broad daylight;
and quite shameless about it,
too. No doubt she was the
necessary feminine element in
the drama, but you'd have
thought they could have found
a chaste young lovely in Queen
Street instead of going back
to old Stanley Street in its
heyday.
Anyway, this harridan the
pitch, and nothing else but, was
the cause of England’s fall,
according to expert opinion,
freely and just about
unanimously aired. And now
it was Australia’s turn, and
immediately a miraculous
“ Now, this bowler's REALLY fast!"
metamorphosis. She —the pitch
—suddenly turns over a new
leaf ... or maybe turns over
her old figleaf . . . and again,
and most unsportingly, favors
the Australians, this time in
their role as batsmen. She is
quiet now. No “life” in her.
She has settled down. The
Australian opening batsmen,
McDonald and Burke, enjoy
her graciousness, fraternally
pat her, and have eight runs
on the board in as many
minutes. And so ends the first
day.
And on the second day she
—the pitch—is so near a re-
formed character that you’d
hardly know her. Occasionally
—in the view of the same
authorities —she does show
signs of “life,” and even, in
her fickleness, sometimes
favors the England chaps, but
she’s comparatively a good
girl now, and being good, lacks
interest, and presently fades
out of the drama altogether,
perhaps to don her black frock
and white-lace tucker for carry-
ing the plate round next day.
And so, alone and unassisted,
as “Banjo” remarked, the
England bowlers must on with
the task without her ; and rise
magnificently, as the English
always do, to baffle, batter and
generally bamboozle the
always-struggling Australian
bats.
So there we have the first
two days of this Test, as
reported—with a total of 290
runs on the board for the two
full days of play. Quite evi-
dently something had gone
astray somewhere in the esti-
mates. Dismissing the harridan-
turned-dowager pitch as not
only a dubious character but
considerably a spurious and
fictitious one, there would
seem to be a choice of at least
three conclusions; (1) that the
bowlers, on both sides, are a
mile better lot than they have
been rated—the best, indeed,
for a very long time ; or (2)
that, as Test standards go, the
batsmen, on both sides, must
be about the worst seen at
large since David bowled
Goliath for a blob ; or (3) that,
to use a racing classification,
both these sides are, overall,
just f.-a.-q. suburban Welter
Handicap company, either of
them a better bet to lose a
match than win it. And so the
question still stands, with only
the slight amendment needed
to avoid flattery: Which of
them will lose this series?
* * *
“Fontaine": When it plays
State and country teams it’s
“the M.C.C.,” and only in the
Tests is it “England.” Next
time Australia visits England,
it should call itself “the Board
of Control team” in county-
matches and Australia only in
the Tests.
“P. 8.”: Charles Fortune,
writer and radio-broadcaster on
cricket and Rugby Union foot-
ball, spoke to a gathering of
blind men and women at the
N.S.VV. Blind Society's hall
recently. Charles Fortune
helped to form a blind cricket-
team in Johannesburg. In-
cidentally, a braille cricket-
field has now been perfected
which enables the blind to
follow the fortunes of both
sides in the Tests. Another
interesting point—several blind
women at the Helen Keller
Hostel have translated cricket
classics into braille for library
use and keep a score-book on
every Test that is played.
Sydney Horses
Compass, winner of the
Christmas Cup at Rosehill with
8.6 last Saturday, acted right
up to recent racing, and could
take a hand in the Summer
Cup on Boxing Day. He has
won at four of his last five
starts, three of the wins being
at Rosehill, where he is trained
by Tom' Kennedy. In Satur-
day’s race he was within
striking-distance of the leaders
from the start, and he went on
to an easy victory over Forest
Stream and Saltillo. Forest
Stream was having his first
start after a short let-up, and
he might soon win. Should
Compass win the Summer
Cup—and he is in the right
condition to do so —he will
probably go to Brisbane for the
winter racing next year.
The £2OOO A.J.C. Villiers
Stakes will be run at Randwick
next Saturday week? Among
likely contenders Grenoble
represents class. He is well


MaSSmm
Ji ywt.. J^fe-y-eyey<e^^n
■
M
&
mmsMs
S
\
SSSSSS
Me
9o
!
■ :
tHiS
* ili *fUfc
■is
%
\ -.*.' . (
i
: ■
O, °P/ffo r
■:J CQ n^ND £ o 5
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES, DISTILLED & BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd., Distillers, Perth, Scotland. Est. 1825
forward in condition, and ran
well at his first race after a
spell, when he finished fourth
at Canterbury with 9.5.
Amneris, who started favorite
for the Rosehill Festival Han-
dicap, had a very easy win.
G. Podmore had a tight hold
at the finish, but Amneris ran
the seven furlongs in 1.24 y,
which was close to the race-
record made by Queenslander
Coniston seven years ago.
Beaten horses in the Rosehill
sprint that may shape better
at Randwick include Huntly,
Teranyan, Theodric and Flag
Top.
Another Link, whose family-
lines include Shannon, cost
500gns. as a yearling at the
Randwick sales last autumn
and was having his first race-
start when he won the Rose-
hill First Graduation Stakes
for two-year-olds. It was a
stylish performance for a first
attempt. By Bob Cherry (imp.)
from Aubyn Lady by Nilo
(imp.) from Dorrie Wyn by
Emborough (imp.), he got over
the 41 furlongs and 29yds. in
54.9, a course record. Raced
on lease by his trainer, Cecil
Buckley, Another Link is
owned by S.T.C. committee-
man Bill Dunlop, who raced
Silver Link, a Melbourne Cup
placegetter.
The Rosehill crowd (not up
to the usual in number)
included more than a sprink-
ling of Newcastle Turf
enthusiasts, most of whom
managed a tidy clean-up over
the successes of Creme De
Cacao (First Parramatta
Stakes) and Meyisti (Second
Parramatta). Both were prior-
start winners at Newcastle, and
the respective trainers, Tom
Black and N. J. Forbes, were
confident the wins would be
repeated in the city area.
Creme De Cacao led practi-
cally all the way in his sprint,
but Meyisti was one of the
tailenders at the half-mile, and
hers was a specially stylish
performance. She is a three-
year-old by Transatlantic
(imp.) from Dark Jenny by
Keelie (imp.) from Sweet Jenny
by Melfort (imp.).
In the Rosehill 10-furlongs
Auburn Stakes (for appren-
tices claiming a 71b. allowance)
the winner (and favorite)
Staride was last of a strung-out
field of 16 about half-a-mile
from home, and was still ninth
entering the straight. His win
was the effort of a stayer, and
this four - year - old gelding
should soon pick up a middle-
distance event in better class.
He’s eligible for one more win
in Graduation company before
tackling stronger fields. By
Edwardsii (imp.) from Lowan
by Beaupartir from Ptarmigan
by Snowfelt, Staride traces
back on the dam’s side to Clan
Stuart (imp.). Family-lines
include Palfresco (Caulfield
Cup) and early stayers Picture
(A.J.C. Derby) and The
Bohemian (Metropolitan).
French sire Pan 11, in this
his first Australian season —he
has had several top winners in
France —is expected to hit the
headlines with his progeny be-
fore the term is far advanced.
His yearlings cost a lot of
money at the Randwick sales
last autumn. One of them,
Doubtless, from Doubtful
Pleasure (imp.) by His High-
ness, ran a distant second to
Endure in the Gimcrack Stakes,
then was produced at Rosehill
last Saturday, when she ran
home an easy winner of the
Second Graduation Stakes for
two-year-olds. The favorite,
Spacewise, again ran greenly,
which may have cost her first-
money.
Lord Cortauld, who had run
good races at Rosehill, but
who meantime had shaped
moderately, had G. Moore on
top last Saturday, and won
well. Colvalley (second) looks
close to a win.
Jp * *
At the Valley
Memories of a very good
mare were revived when Lebe-
dos won the Clayton Stakes
for two-year-olds at Moonee
Valley on Saturday. The
winner is by imported Neapoli-
tan from the Windbag mare
Throttle. When she raced,
Throttle was only pony-size,
but she could gallop ; the 1941
Williamstown Cup was one of
many races she won. Trainer
Theo Lewis gave 850gns. for
Lebedos on behalf of South
Australian breeder H. C.
Nitschke, who played cricket
for his State some years ago,
It was a promising run by
Lebedos, having only his third
start. He won comfortably
from the useful Easterling.
It was not surprising that
few racegoers picked the
25-to-l Rathmelton in the
Noble Park Trial. Trainer
Herb Sawyer had two runners
in the race, and his son, Ken,
who had his pick of the
mounts, chose County Cork.
In the run, Rathmelton won
well, while County Cork beat
only the stragglers home.
Rathmelton did show a bit of
form in the winter, but he
turned into a bleeder. Sawyer
snr. believes he has cured that
trouble, and Rathmelton could
win again in similar company
for his owners, Warragul
couple W. Pyle and his wife.
There was a special cheer
for three-year-old Mirabeau
when he took the Braeside
Handicap—he was the first
favorite to score in Melbourne
since Famed won the Eclipse
Stakes. Mirabeau has been a
consistent sort, winning four
times from his last nine races.
He finished strongly over the
mile journey and gives every
sign of being able to stay with
maturity. He is very well bred,
being by Valognes from Com-
pact by Ajax. Compact was
a sister to dual Derby winner
Magnificent. Fred Hoysted
trains Mirabeau, and that
mentor, who has won the Vic-
torian trainers’ premiership 14
times, is again leading this
year.
Although she’d had a couple
of months’ spell since racing in
South Australia, the Faux
Tirage mare Tirage was backed
from fours to twos for the first
Holy.rood Handicap. She only
just landed the money, winning
in a photo from Ammonite.
Kevin Mitchell showed good
judgment to hold Tirage to-
gether over the last little bit.
Timber-merchant S. L. Snipe
has done well with the mare
since he bought her from VV. R.
Kemball. In Snipe’s colors
Tirage had won at Flemington
and Cheltenham (S.A.) before
her Valiey success.
Kemball himself had a win
later in the day, when his four-
year-old gelding Vogel easily
won the Harrisfield High-
weight. Like most of Kem-
ball's many horses, Vogel is
New Zealand-bred, being by
Sabaean from Hunter’s Lass.
It had been a long time since
Vogel won a race, but he
thrashed the useful field in the


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2321 of 1949.
Between FLORENCE MAY NICHOLLS
Petitioner and KITCHENER JOFFRE
FRENCH NICHOLLS Respondent. 1,
FLORENCE MAY NICHOLLS have been
guilty of adultery since the Petition
herein was filed and I humbly pray that
this Honourable Court on the hearing
oi this Petition will exercise its dis-
cretion in my favour and grant me a
decree nisi notAvithstanding such adultery
The Respondent may if lie so desires
enter an appearance to my Petition on
or before the Bth January 1959. —Dated
this Twelfth day of Npvember, 1958. —
FLORENCE MAY NICHOLLS.
TO His Honour, the Judge in Divorce.
And TO the abovementioned Respondent.
gifts say . . .
Open yoiir Kodak gift first and
save all the fun of Christmas and
the years to come —in pictures.
a
BROWNIE FLASH II
CAMERA OUTFIT
For picture taking anywhere,
anytime, day or night. There's
a Brownie Flash II Camera,
Brownie Flasholder, flash*
bulbs, batteries, Kodak film
and full instructions.
An ideal gift. £5/10/-.
KODAK (AUSTRALASIA) PTY. LTD.
Branches in all States
KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Harrisfield to win by three
lengths, easing up.
• • •
Owner Neil Petch pays well
for a horse which takes his
fancy. He has not disclosed
what he gave for Secret Talk
in New Zealand earlier this
year, but the price was probably
high. Secret Talk had excellent
form in the Dominion, where
she won three races. It took
the three-year-old Gabador
filly a while to win a race in
Australia, but she broke
through at Werribee late rn
October, and on Saturday was
impressive in winning the
second heat of the Holyrood
Handicap. Her time for the
6 furlongs less 20yds.—1.12}—
was good for the Valley, and
much better than Tirage’s time
in the first division. Westralian
rider Frank Treen got a warm
hand for his success on Secret
Talk—it was his first winning
ride since his nasty fall at
Newstead.
The meeting at Flemington
next Saturday is for the
V.R.C.’s Benevolent Fund. In
the 44 years since it was estab-
lished the fund has divided
£160,000 among needy
members of the racing fratern-
ity and their dependants.
Currently some 120 people are
being aided by the fund. The
meeting next Saturday has a
good start. Nominations are
a record for a six-event pro-
gramme at Flemington.
* * *
The Trots
Driven by W. J. Binskin,
Gathering Gold landed a
betting plunge in the Trotters’
Handicap at Harold Park on
Friday night from the 48yds.
mark. Although placed only
twice in her previous 11 starts
at Harold Park, the mare gave
a faultless exhibition of trotting
to improve from a handy fifth
in the middle stages to be a
close third at the bell. She
finished strongly to win by
three lengths from favorite
Lucky Vale, who did well to
be second, as she broke in the
first lap and had a lot of
ground to make-up.
Field Dixie, beaten into
second place by Sir Raider in
the Harold Park Handicap last
week, turned the tables and
landed the money from
Blanche’s Best, with Sir Raider
(back on 24yds.) a close third.
Badly away, the Lawn Raider
horse made a valiant effort- in
the straight, wanting this win
to bring him into Cup-class
for the summer carnival in
January.
Driver M. Adams scored a
treble in his only three drives,
Verity, Friscoway and Walla
Spring.
After inquiring into the bona
fides of Silent Prince (First
Qualifying) and Roan Robert
(Pan a n i a Handicap) the
stewards disqualified both
horses and their trainer, R.
Barrett, for 12 months. They
also barred Peerless Winn from
future racing at Harold Park
after her display in the Panania
Handicap. Starting a hot
favorite, she could only finish
fifth in a field of seven. She
was the fifth favorite to fail in
the seven races.
* * *
Davis Cupwards
With a variety of scientific
blokes taking a hand in the
training of athletes to hit peak
performance these days, have
any of them got round to a
spot of scientific study of the
wherefores of the physical
breakdowns that seem more
and more to assail athletes in
top training?
Injuries from knocks in
footie, and, to a lesser degree,
other sports, are one thing ; but
the endless pulled, torn and
strained muscles and kindred
breakdowns are something else.
The harder training a top
athlete seems to be in these
days, the more and more a
toss-up it seems to be if he can
be got to the post in one
piece. When men are presum-
ably physically above average
to begin with, and, as well,
presumably are trained to the
minute, it’s difficult to under-
stand cases like one current
English cricket-tourist putting
himself out of action for weeks
with an injury sustained in
rising from a deck-chair, or a
Davis Cup tennis-player mak-
ing a medical case of himself
by picking up a ball on the
court.
Is it possibly that the degree
of training required to be on
top with present competition,
and the amount of first-class
performance an athlete in any
field has to turn-in every year,
with international travel-time
now measured in hours, the
capabilities of the human body
are being pushed past the
breaking-point?
. • The Davis Cup player in
question was the Italian Nicola
Pietrangeli, who did-in his back
picking up a ball last week.
However, deciding to give it a
burl barely an hour before
play began, he managed to
get to the post and perform
pretty ereditably in his first
singles match of the Cup inter-
zone semi-final between Italy
and the Philippines at
N.S.W.L.T.A.’s White City
courts, Sydney, on Saturday.
Pietrangeli took only an hour
to beat the Philippines’ Feli-
cissimo Ampon 6-2, 6-2, 7-5.
That put the Italians in a win-
ning position, with their other
singles man, the lofty Orlando
Sirola, beating Raymundo
Deyro 8-6, 6-3, 6-4. Sirola
stands around 6ft. 7in., and the
diminutive Filipino would have
needed 15in.-thick socks to
match that.
Clinching the tie, the Italian
pair on Sunday won the
doubles 6-3, 6-3, 7-5.
• • • •
American Davis Cup colt
Earl Buchholz, in the boom
after getting to the singles final
of the N.S.W. championships,
didn’t fare so well in the Vic-
torian titles. He struck a tough
nut in Neale Fraser on Satur-
day, and lost 3-6, 3-6, 6-4, 4-6.
Left in for the quarter-finals
at the end of Saturday’s play
were Fraser, Anderson, Mark,
Cooper, Laver, Gimeno (Spain)
and Mackay (U.S.A.).
Incidentally, another Fraser
made a pretty fair showing in
the Vic. titles —Neale’s brother
John. John was tossed by
Anderson on Saturday after
earlier causing an upset by
beating seeded player Trevor
Fancutt, of South Africa. John
is a medico. He got word that
he had passed his final medical
exams, the same day that he
beat Fancutt —no ... he got
the good news after he had
won the match.
* * *
“Cunedda”: Hare Spy, a
fawn greyhound bitch, made
dog-racing history early this
year when she ran in a race
in England with a plastic bone
in her foot. Following an
injury last year, she underwent
an operation, which gave her a
plastic substitute bone —the first
of its kind in the world. She
won the race, too.
* * *
At Sydney Stadium last
week N.S.W. southpaw Russell
Sands fought all over South
African lightweight Louis
Klopper, to win on a t.k.o. in
the eighth. Klopper came here
with a reputation for handling
southpaws, but met more than
his match in Sands. It was a
good boost back towards a
title-fight * for the youngest
Sands, whose stocks slumped
somewhat when he was k.o.'d
by George Bracken in Mel-
bourne early in September.
Sands and lightweight title-
holder Max Carlos fought a
draw in August, in one of the
best fights seen in Melbourne
this year.


—unlike their own children
and the other native-born.
In 1897 a new brick school-
house was built at Bringelly to
cope with the closer settlement,
and the older brick building
was demolished.
From the turn of the century
up to World War I, land in the
district, cleared and fenced,
was sold at about £2 an
acre. During the decade before
1939 it was worth an average
of about £5 an acre. The
Valuer-General in 1958 says
the same land is worth £5O
an acre and, of course,
it is rated accordingly. The
high-pressure salesman who
sells five-acre unwatered
farms and publishes advertise-
ments showing imaginary
shopping-centres where only
gumtrees and barbed-wire
fences exist (all distances from
the city and public transport
artistically foreshortened pic-
torially) may charge £lOO an
acre —partly, no doubt, to cover
the cost of the artful advertis-
ing. Around Leppington, with
water laid on, tomato-growers
pay £2OO an acre.
■yDHAT the present fashion of
’ ’ the “five-acre farm” will
bring except profit to high-
pressure real-estate men I don’t
know; but from Riley’s old
homestead of Raby, on the
Cowpasture Road (now the
Hume Highway), right through
to the Western Road around St.
Mary’s, old holdings here and
there are being subdivided and
sold to what appear to be
weekend motorists.
Under the County of Cum-
berland planning scheme the
subdivisions may not be in
allotments of less than five
acres. Without reticulated
water a five-acre farm (in a
“dry area”) is of little more
economic value than a build-
ing-allotment. But at least the
five-acre lots help to maintain
the character of the area as
farmland, and to those who
have affection for the district
that is much to be desired.
Bringelly today, situated on
a crossroads, has a post-ofifice-
cum - store - cum-filling-station,
the school that was built in
1897, and it had a council-
chambers (Nepean Shire)
before the shire was split-up
between Camden, Liverpool
and Penrith municipalities.
But looking at the little
village itself one wonders why
all roads in the district seem
to lead to Bringelly. The road
from the Crossroads Hotel, on
the seething Hume Highway
outside Liverpool, has been
called the Bringelly Road ever
since it was a road, and it
emerges again at Kingswood,
24 miles away on the seething
Western Highway, as the
Bringelly Road.
The name, of course, dates
back to Macquarie's time and
CAMDEN PENRITH WINDSOR DISTRICT
[Map reproduced by special permission of the N.R.M.A., Sydney .]
Fern Hill is shown by the cross on the left-hand side.
Bringelly village is near the pointer in the left-hand corner.
The area discussed in the article is roughly that of the
bottom left-hand quarter of the map.
to when Bringelly was a whole
district. In those and later days,
with Robert Lowe, of Birling
and Clay Hill, in residence,
Bringelly village itself was
obviously a place of some
importance. Donahoe, the
bushranger, was shot dead in
the bush near Bringelly in
1830.
T was born at Bringelly a long
time after Donahoe and
many years before my first
visit to the Union Club. As a
school-kid I walked two-and-a-
half miles to and from school
each day, beginning in the year
of Anzac, hunted rabbits and
possums on Badgery Creek,
and on occasional visits to
Liverpool, 14 miles away, I
often as not had to drive the
mail-coach with its two horses
back from the Crossroads
Hotel while the driver, drunk,
dozed beside me. Fortunately
for the other passengers the
horses knew the road as well
as I did. My only other asso-
ciation with the King’s mails
in those days was that I, with
other schoolchildren, inherited
the job, on the way home from
school, of carrying the mail to
residents who had no offspring
to do their fetching and
carrying-home. .
Instead of a garage up the
street there was then a black-
smith’s shop across the road
from the school, where every-
one, including the Syrian
hawker, had jobs to be done
at some time or other. The
language and conversation of
the smith when shoeing a
restive horse were not approved
by the schoolteacher or one’s
parents, but it was a way of
becoming acquainted with
world affairs at an early age,
and, in retrospect, well worth-
while.
There were characters —■
squires, virtually —who rode
favorite horses as familiar as
themselves —Charlie Mclntosh,
of Denbigh ; Jack Vicary, of
Luddenham; and Tommy
Barker, of Maryland. Tip-
drays loaded with firewood
creaked and click-clocked their
way into Camden and
Narellan; the rabbit-trapper
had his catch hung in scores
under his sulky, and his dog
was trained not to interfere;
the milk-wagon picked-up the
cans along the road ; and
farmers individually drove in
their spring-carts with their
egg-cases to the station at
Narellan.
When someone had a pro-
perty for sale in the Bringelly
district he always arranged to
meet his prospective buyer at
Narellan or Camden. It was
much more impressive to bring
him out that way, through the
park-like properties on each
side of the road, than through
the scrub and smallholdings on
the way from Liverpool. Any-
one travelling through from
Bringelly to Camden or Cob-
bitty will see the point even
today.
T go back to Bringelly for
Christmas-dinner each year,
and down our side-road every-
thing is much the same as it
was then, except that electric-
light and the telephone have
come, and there are fewer
children, dogs and cattle about.
At night-time the curlew still
shatters the stillness with his
unearthly cry. It starts with
a high-pitched, long-drawn-
out wail of “Cu-u-r-r-l-e-e-w,”
followed by another of the
same pitch and length, then
one of shorter length, then two
short ones in rapid succession.
The bird is a long-legged grey
fowl that may be seen running
shyly over wooded grassland
by day but is only heard at
night, which makes it all the
more eerie. It is often a victim
of the fox, an inhabitant of the
district from ,|he early days.
Where mixed farming is
carried on and poultry and


A CEiristmas-gift to
Fascinate-
'“THE LETTERS OF
RACHEL HENNING”
A "Bulletin" Bestseller
This charming and absorbing real-life story of
Australia too years ago, told in sparkling, gossipy prose
by Rachel Henning herself, has become a classic of
Australian biography in the short space of three years
since it was first published in book-form.
“The Letters of Rachel Henning” read like a
romantic novel. If you have never read them there is
real delight in store for you. If you have read them you
will realise what a charming present they will make for
a friend.
Not the smallest attraction of the book are the
40 exquisite pen-drawings by Norman Lindsay.
Copies of "The Letters of Roche! Kenning" will be
sent, post-free, to any address in Australia upon receipt
of 7s. 6d. (seven shillings and sixpence) by
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney,
and branch offices in Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.
watch his eyes
LIGHT UP
when you give him a
: 3
this Christmas
Barling Briar Pipes are cut from rare roots of
great age. Only the finest grains are selected.
There is no “breaking in" and, to ensure free
draught, only the finest vulcanite is bored.
Give him a Barling—he’ll be delighted.
Obtainable from all Leading
Tobacconists
Trade enquiries: Box 502, G.P.0., Sydney.
cattle help to fertilise the culti-
vation or pasture, fine crops are
grown in good seasons, especi-
ally when helped along by
superphosphate the whole
area lacking lime. But the
essentially clayey nature of the
subsoil is clear after a dry spell
has followed the ploughing-
in of last season’s cornstalks.
The roots of the stalk have a
dry clod of brick-like clay
attached, which is a fearsome
weapon when the stalk is
swung through the air.
In summer drought the clay,
which is mostly over shale
several feet down, bakes and
cracks-open in the same places
as it has cracked-open for the
past hundred (maybe thou-
sand) years; and often black
snakes find these cracks the
quickest way out of sight and
trouble. In wet weather, on
the other hand, there is no
mud as sticky and slippery
and bottomless as the clay of
the Bringelly district: which
seems to answer the question
of why the early settlers built
their roads over the steepest
hills and along the ridges
instead of through the easier
(but, in wet weather, boggier)
grades of the creek-valleys.
Because of the clayey sub-
soil the roads in the South
Creek district must be paved
or macadamised to be passable
in wet weather; and paths
■round a dwelling need to be
made of stone, gravel or
cement. The natural sandy
gravel around rocky Sydney
Harbor and Broken Bay fore-
shores (and the mountains) is
absent through the Bringelly
area.
Last Christmas-day at
Bringelly the north-west wind
blew like a searing blast out
of hell; but it was almost as
bad in Sydney ; and Bringelly
is rarely like that. Its climate
is usually a blend between that
of the mountains and the coast,
and Sydney’s nor’-easter
reaches it, 30 miles away, as
the most delightful of summer
breezes. Winter is usually
crisp and sunny, the air vastly
refreshing after coastal
humidity.
T ooking over the expanse of
country from the portico
of Fern Hill you ponder the
future of the miles of rolling
hills, forest and grassland
where, in the bird’s-eye view,
time appears to have stood
still for a century, and where
the crush of Wynyard Station
and the traffic-snarl of Sydney
Harbor Bridge seem a thou-
sand miles away. But every-
thing your eye can see in the
foreground is within 30 miles
of the G.P.O
It probably looks, as a whole,
and except for roads and a
few scattered houses, very
much the same as it did on
October 10, 1815, when Gov-
ernor Macquarie ascended the
nearby “ridge or hill forming
the western extremity of Mr.
Henry Cox’s farm, from the
summit [apparently Mt. Henry]
of which there is a very
grand extensive prospect
of all the country eastward
and southward to the sea coast,
and from which we could
distinctly see Prospect Hill,
Mount Hunter and Mt.
Taurus.”
Apart from the roads which
were put through in the early
days of settlement and develop-
ment, the most significant
events have been the taking
of electric power through
many parts of the area, and
more recently, the tar-sealing
of the Kingswood-Narellan
Road, making it a perfect
shortcut-road (not to say speed-
way) from the Western High-
way to the Hume Highway. If
the old Orphan School Road
(or Mulgoa Road) running
from Mulgoa to the Old Cow-
pasture Road is also sealed
there could be a surge of
development through the
whole area of 200 square-
miles (about 125,000 acres),
especially as the bus is now
the approved method of
metropolitan transport.
But there will assuredly be
no dramatic development or
progress along the Bringelly
Road, from Penrith and Kings-
wood through to Smithfield,
Liverpool and Camden, until
water is piped through the area.
The Warragamba Dam, the
pipeline to Sydney from which
passes between Luddenham
and Mulgoa, may be the
answer when it is completed
within the next few years.
"Corty years ago many people
living in the area had a
canal route surveyed right
through their properties. The
white-ants have eaten all the
pegs and bench-marks since
then, though, and maybe the
plans have been lost or mislaid
at the Water Board in the
meantime.
Whatever happens, one hopes
that the character of farmland,
even if the holdings be as
small as five acres, will, over-
all, be maintained. It is a kind
of life which should appeal
more and more to city people
as the crush of traffic and com-
plications of city-living become
almost overwhelming. Perhaps
the stones and columns of the
old Union Club now lying in
the grounds of Fern Hill are a
portent. True it is, anyway,
that many of the new owners
of properties out that way are
professional men or business-
men from the city. They have
“weekend farms,” or drive in
daily in less time than it takes
to come to the city from Palm
Beach.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ASIA AND COMMUNISM
/Commenting on the nine-year-
old Colombo Plan, London
“News Chronicle” recalls that
it was devised by the Common-
wealth Foreign Ministers “to
develop and help the countries
of South and South-east Asia,
where some 600-million people
live under conditions that
clearly invite Communist
interest”:
“It is too easy to forget that
these people make up a quarter
of the w'hole world's popula-
tion. Just because they live
so far away it is wrong to
underrate their importance. In
one of the Colombo Plan
countries India —democracy
itself is now very much on trial.
Money is short; and the
collapse of democracy there
could cause a general collapse
throughout Asia.”
That the balance is tipping
in favor of Communism is the
opinion of U.S. commentator
Walter Lippmann, who, in his
widely published report of his
interview with Mr. Khrushchev,
notes that the latter said that
Communism would expand
throughout Africa and Asia
because the people of the
poorer countries w'ould be
“convinced by their stomachs.”
“Manchester Guardia n,”
commenting on Lippmann’s
articles, also points out that
he agrees that “the tide among
the uncommitted peoples is
running in favor of Russia,”
and that he thinks that the
Communist revolution will
triumph in these countries
unless the West makes “a
heroic effort of statesmanship
to demonstrate that there is
an alternative to it.”
'Both Mr. Khrushchev and
Mr. Lippmann are in this
context correct,” the “Man-
chester Guardian” adds.
“Democratic ideals have little
appeal to people whose lives
are passed in hunger and
misery. If Asians and Africans
are once convinced that freedom
and rapid economic progress
are incompatible, freedom is
most likely to go by the board.
But nothing has yet persuaded
them that democracy can offer
them a speedy way to banish
poverty.
“In spite of technical
assistance, Colombo Plans and
World Banks, the rich countries
of the world continue to get
richer, while the poor countries
are becoming relatively poorer.
India has made vast efforts in
the past 10 years to raise her
living-standards; but the
national income a head for her
people remains only a tenth of
what it is in the United King-
dom.”
In a further interesting
comment on the Communist
tide in Asia, Roderick Mac-
Farquhar, a London “Daily
Telegraph” staff man writing m
the U.S. “Problems of Com-
munism,” points out that “the
industrialisation programmes of
India and Communist China
have developed into a race with
—London "Daily Mail”
WEST SIDE STORY.
possibly far-reaching implica-
tions for the future political
complexion of Asia”:
“The Chinese Communist
rulers are far too discreet to
admit this, but in India itself,
as well as in the West, the view
is being freely expressed that
the relative progress of the two
countries toward the goal of
industrialisation is a test of the
efficacy of the rival political
systems and methods of totali-
tarianism and democracy.
Should India prove unable to
carry through its programme
while China succeeds, it is
argued, more and more Asians,
including the Indians them-
selves, will become convinced
that only by the adoption of
totalitarian methods can their
centuries-old heritage of
poverty and backwardness be
rapidly overcome ; and this, in
turn, could lead to Communist
Governments being voted into
power. Although a somewhat
special case, the example of
the Indian State of Kerala lends
force to this argument by
demonstrating that Com-
munists can get voted into
power.
“From the Marxist stand-
point, this view of the situ-
ation has a certain irony. An
essential ingredient of classic
Marxism was the theory that
Communist revolution would
take place in highly-developed
industrial countries. Not only,
however, has this prediction
long been falsified by historical
fact, but the further spread of
Communism is now thought to
depend upon how successfully
it performs the very task which
Marx maintained would be
performed by capitalism. If
the Communists were to
achieve power in any of the un-
committed Asian countries on
the basis of an apparently
superior record in accomplish-
ing industrial development, it
would, indeed, be a case of the
‘economic base’ determining
the political ‘superstructure’—
but not at all in the way antici-
pated by Marx..
“In this connection, the im-
prisoned former Yugoslav
Communist leader, Milovan
Djilas, has advanced the argu-
ment that the same un-Marxist
kind of economic determinism
was operative also in the major
Communist revolutions of the
past. In his book, The New
Class, he writes:
These revolutions did not occur
because new, let us say socialist,
relationships were already existing
in the economy, or because capital-
ism was “overdeveloped.” On the
contrary. They did occur because
capitalism was not fully developed
and because it was not able to
carry out the industrial transforma-
tion of the country.
“Djilas, it should be noted,
excludes from consideration
those countries where Com-
munist rule was imposed by the
Red Army and is referring
specifically to the Communist
revolutions in the Soviet Union,
China and Yugoslavia. In
these three countries, he states,
there were ‘urgent and specific
concrete reasons —international,
economic, political—for revo-
lution,’ but he holds that the
‘basic’ reason, common to all
of them, was the ‘vital need for
industrial change.’ ”
After a lengthy examination
of the history of Communism
in China, MacFarquhar comes
to the “inescapable conclusion”
that “at no point in the
development of Chinese Com-
munist totalitarianism —past or
present (and, the writer is
tempted to add, future) —have
economic factors been (or will
they be) decisive”:
“What has been decisive so
far has been the Chinese
leaders’ partiality, primarily for
political reasons, to the Stalinist
form of totalitarianism. Mao
has accepted the legacies of
both Lenin and Stalin: for
him, Leninism and Stalinism are
the normal political tools with
which to run the Chinese
Communist State, whatever
economic policies may be the
order of the day. One could
guess fairly safely that, even
if Mao had decided that China
needed a decade before embark-
ing upon its industrialisation
programme, he still would have
employed in 1949 the severer


Express Service to. . .
EUROPE, FAR EAST, U.S.A. and CANADA
m
, :
Es
v. •'
mu
mu
W
l,*ina 1
WILHELMSEN LINE. Regular service to the
Middle East, the Continent and Scandinavia.
Refrigerated as well as general cargo space avail-
able. Limited first-class passenger accommodation
available in double or single-deck cabins.
AUSTRALIA - WEST PACIFIC LINE. Serving
Manila, Hong Kong and main Japanese ports —
returning via Shanghai, New Guinea and Island
Ports. Regular sailings by Milos, Delos, Aros
and Citos with general and refrigerated space
available; also special mechanical ventilation for
fruit, vegetables, etc., in ’tween decks. Luxurious
passenger accommodation in single or two-berth
cabins.
AMERICAN PIONEER LINE. Rapid service
of modern refrigerated cargo vessels from Aus-
tralia to U.S. and Canadian Atlantic Coast Ports,
and Trinidad via Panama Canal. Vessels carry
a limited number of passengers in saloon
accommodation.
m m
And for the finest in Air travel.
Fb scA/m/mwA/vA/Mi/ves srsnM
The only airline with two polar routes to Europe.
• Los Angeles to Copenhagen (six flights weekly). • Tokyo to Copenhagen (two flights weekly).
Commencing 1959 SAS introduces new Caravelle jet airliners on their European Services.
For full details on any of the above services contact your travel agent tor . . .
WILD. WILHELMSEN AGENCY PT Y. IT D.
6 6 PITT S T.. SYDN E Y. B U 63 0 1
51 WILLIAM ST.. MELBOURNE. MA 3031


DO YOU KNOW-
b
J
\
\
m
:\)
mm
V
-A BUSY MAN?
Your brother, perhaps, or your son? A man
who, like yourself, is often too busy to keep abreast
of daily events; This man, you will agree, would
appreciate “The Bulletin” —a journal he could
read during the leisure hours of the weekend —a
medium that will keep him fully informed of all
the national affairs that matter.
SEND HIM A SUBSCRIPTION TO
AS A CHRISTMAS-GIFT FROM
THE FAMILY
Our Subscriptions Department will sign, on your
behalf, a greetings-card announcing your gift-subscrip-
tion, and will dispatch it to arrive before Christmas.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
ELSEWHERE
IN THIS ISSUE
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO THOMAS JOSEPH PETER
GALLAGHER late of 73 Buckley Street
Essendon Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE
that DOROTHY EILEEN GALLAGHER
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3591 of 1958 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sj'dney
by the 10th February 1959 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from ROY F. TURNER & CO., Soli-
citors, of 350 George Street,
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
methods which Stalin made
part of Soviet totalitarianism
only after 1928.
“Thus, we are brought back
to the paradox already men-
tioned—the curious fact that
Communist China, where
neither the original rise of
Communism nor the emerg-
ence of Maoist totalitarianism
were ascribable to economic
factors, is now recognised as
the major spur to the spread
—London “New Statesman”
THE LOVE OF FOUR COLONELS.
of Communism in other under-
developed Asian nations, pre-
cisely because of the appeal
of Chinese Communist achieve-
ment in the field of economic
development.
“The reason for this, of
course, lies in an essential
difference of outlook between
the founders of Chinese Com-
munism in the early 1920’s and
the Asian intellectuals and
politicians of today. In the
early 1920’s the major problem
for most Asians, including the
Chinese, was how to gain
independence from foreign
colonial rule or —in China’s
case —foreign limitations upon
their sovereignty ; and those
who joined Communist parties
then did so because they saw
in Communism a tool with
which to accomplish that aim.
“Today, little remains of the
old colonial empires in Asia.
The crucial problem for the
Asian nations is no longer the
recovery of their political
autonomy; it is how to
engineer the economic develop-
ment needed to set that
autonomy on a firm founda-
tion. With this change in out-
look has come an inevitable
change in Communism’s appeal
to Asians. Now, admiration
among them for the Soviet
Union stems not so much from
Communism’s anti-imperialist
stand—though this still exerts
a potent influence in the Middle
East and Africa —as from the
U.S.S.R.’s success in lifting
itself by its own bootstraps to
the .position of the second most
powerful industrial country
after the United States. They
are watching Communist China
with a much more direct and
compelling interest, for China
is an Asian nation and is
attempting to prove that the
Soviet model will also work
in Asia.
“As long as India and the
other non-Communist Asian
nations can achieve the eco-
nomic development they desire
within a democratic political
framework, they undoubtedly
will not heed the call of Soviet
or Chinese totalitarianism. The
danger will come should demo-
cratically controlled economic
development fail to produce
desired results. The danger,
it should be added, need not
necessarily come from a Com-
munist revolutionary coup,
but rather from a volun-
tary attempt by the Asian
countries to find a solution in
the piecemeal adoption of the
economic but not the political
methods of totalitarianism.
“The question which they


would then have to ask them-
selves —and it is one to which
history provides no clue —is
whether they would not end
up with a full-fledged totali-
tarian system just the same,
only via a road the opposite of
the Soviet. In Russia the
Leninist political revolution
passed over into the Stalinist
economic revolution. In Asia
the process might conceivably
be reversed.”
British Science
Anyone who remembers how
well John Bull kept the
secret of radar before and
during the initial stages of
World War II must sometimes
wonder what other scientific
know-how is locked away these
days in the backroom. That
thought, or something like it,
would seem to be the inspira-
tion for the following letter to
New York “Herald Tribune”
from V. R. Weiss:
“At present, when so much
interest is being taken in
Russian technical training and
education, we [the U.S.] would
do well to take a look at our
closest but little-heard-of ally
Great Britain. Have we really
nothing to learn from the
nation which was first in radar,
television, penicillin, jet-travel
and large-scale atomic power-
plants, and is also probably
still ahead in harnessing the
power of the hydrogen bomb?
“Recently the British
launched their first Black
Knight rocket to a height of
300 miles. It was successful at
first launching, and was con-
structed and launched at the
incredibly low cost of less
than $l4 million. Their Blue
Streak rocket, designed to carry
an H-bomb warhead over
ranges of 2000 miles, appears
to be equally promising.
“We could justify our repu-
tation as the world’s best
businessmen by placing a con-
—London “Daily Express”
“THERE, URI! YOU’VE SEEN ZHUKOV, MALENKOV, SHEPILOV, KAGANOVICH, MOLOTOV, NOW
BULGANIN—ONE DAY, WHO KNOWS, YOU MAY EVEN SEE KHRUSHCHEV!”
tract for rocket-development
with Great Britain and invest-
ing in that contract say five
per cent, of the huge annual
amount of money being spent
on our own rocket work.”
U.S. Farm Surpluses
/Commenting on the recurring
U.S. farm-surplus headache,
the “America” notes that
“despite acreage limitations,
land retired to the soil-bank
and a sliding scale of price-
supports, our [U.S.] farmers
are bringing in another bumper
crop”:
“Agricultural abundance has
become, paradoxically, not
only an ulcer - producing
problem to our statesmen but
a tax-burden to our citizens.
At present prices we cannot
possibly consume all we pro-
duce ; and however diligently
we try, we don’t seem to be
able to dispose of all our
surpluses abroad. Indeed, such
efforts as we have made to
share our abundance with
needy peoples elsewhere have
brought down on our heads
angry charges of dumping and
disrupting markets.
“We don’t know the answer
to the problem of farm-
surpluses, but we are reason-
ably sure that a sliding scale of
price-supports is not the solu-
tion. When price-supports are
lowered, farmers merely grow
more to offset the lower prices
they receive for their products.”
Australia and Britain
TTTngsley Martin, editor of
London “New Statesman,”
reporting back to that journal
while he was in Australia to
deliver the Dyason lectures:
“Everyone in Australia asks
me why the Britsh press pays
this continent so little atten-
tion. A strong umbilical cord
still unites Australians to the
British ; and the British, it is
strongly felt here, are negli-
gent parents. Some people
even seem to think we are un-
friendly.
“This is a misunderstanding.
To qualify for headlines in the
British press, a country must
be newsworthy ; it must share
in some peculiar way in the
world’s misfortunes or at least
its eccentricities. Austrafia is
healthy and prosperous ; it has
little unemployment ; it is in
no present danger of Red ruin ;
it has remarkably little crime ;
its morals are comparatively
orthodox ; it is unimpeachably
loyal; it does not nowadays
spectacularly ill-treat its
aborigines and so does not
qualify for the attention paid
to Little Rock or Notting Hill.
“It lacks earthquakes and'
has a remarkable dearth of
air disasters. Happy is the
country which is seldom in the
news.”
Nuclesar Disarmament
T ondon “Daily Telegraph”
comment on the “slow
progress” of the nuclear-tests
conference at Geneva:
“Those who insist on big
views—on the need for nuclear
disarmament, on the danger of
tests to health or the hopes of
relaxed tension should ask
themselves what is the Soviet
big view on this matter. Why
do the Russians want to freeze
relative nuclear strengths of
East and West where they now
stand?
“Is it because they expect
some great scientific advantage
from stopping new experiment
in the West, the dispersal of
research teams, and so on?
Or is it because they want to
stop other nations joining the
nuclear club by their own
efforts? Perhaps their chief
purpose is to prevent France,
Germany and Sweden having
these weapons to defend them-
selves, at some future time
when American readiness to
protect Europe on a nuclear
scale had been undermined by
Soviet threats.
“Are they perhaps trying to
stop the Western effort to pro-
vide itself with cleaner, smaller,
more accurate nuclear weapons,
the use of which against vast
attacking Soviet and Chinese
armies would be fully supported
by public opinion? These are
possibilities to be carefully
weighed against the some-
times hasty assumption that
efforts to tame and refine and
adapt the new explosive must
be wrong.”
Various Voices
Mr. Diefenbaker : “This is an
age of struggle for the minds
of men. The struggle is unique
in history, because it is world
wide. Only a global defence,
can preserve those values we
hold dear. This is the challenge
the [British] Commonwealth
must meet and can meet. For no
other institution in the modern
world has the same global unity
in the things of the spirit and
the economic potential to
preserve and defend the heri-
tage of freedom.”
Prince Wan-W aithayakon of
Thailand: “Neutrality in inter-
national law constitutes not
only a right, but also an
obligation to defend oneself in
case of war. A neutralist State
which is not prepared to defend
itself is not really neutral.
Switzerland is a classic example
of a neutral Power, because it
is prepared to defend itself.”
Senator Gore : “Some people
say that all we need is a climate
of confidence, a willingness for
each nation to accept the word
of the other in good faith. In
a way this is true, but confi-
dence, like faith, does not
come merely by wishing it. The
long, almost unbroken, list of
Soviet treatv violations stares
us in the face.”


Singleton. Our friend the
policeman told us of a teamster
going to Aberdeen to pick up
a load who would be glad to
give us a lift.
The wagon seemed a tre-
mendous size when we climbed
up on top. It was 40ft. long
and Bft. wide. One of the
famous Bennett wagons built at
St. Mary’s for wool-carrying, it
was the pride of the district.
Painted red and black, drawn
by 12 well-matched bay horses,
it was well kept. Horses were
groomed, and the harness
glittered with polish. I have
never seen a better outfit on the
roads.
The teamster, a big man with
a full beard, was worthy of his
team. White corded-moleskin
trousers, Wellington - boots,
Crimean-shirt and a cabbage-
tree hat made him a striking
figure.
Like all the good teamsters,
horse or bullock, I have ever
met, he carried no whip except
a riding-crop, and depended on
his voice, which was seldom
raised above normal. But every
horse was stepping-out and
pulling its weight all the time.
His name was Mr. Jamison,
and he rode a saddle-pony for
a few miles, then climbed on
the wagon and yarned with us.
We were surprised to learn that,
though he was 50 years of age,
he had never been in Sydney.
He asked innumerable ques-
tions, and listened intently as
we tried to describe the city to
him. When we told him it was
many times bigger than New-
castle, I think he didn’t quite
believe us.
We left Singleton late and
camped at a village called
Ravensworth. After fixing his
horses Jamison invited us over
to the pub to have a beer.
I had never tasted strong drink
of any kind, but, not wishing
to offend, I dawdled along
behind him. Dutchy had had
a few beers, and walked un-
concernedly into the bar. Both
called for pints, and I croaked
something the barman must
have understood, for he handed
me a pint also. Somebody said,
“Here’s luck,” and I took a
gulp. I thought it the most
horrible thing I had ever tasted,
and wondered why men could
ever crave for it. But I knew
that I had to be “a man among
men,” and had another go at it.
It finally beat me, so I
managed to dribble most of it
down the side of the bar, while
Mr. Jamison, Dutchy, the
barman and several other men
discoursed learnedly about
good and bad beer. All were
in perfect agreement that the
beer under discussion was the
king of all beers. I stood up,
wiping my mouth with the back
of my hand, in the best manner
of the hardened drinker, stuck
“Discoursed learnedly about
good and bad beer."
out my chest, and assured the
company that it was the best
beer I had ever tasted. Which
was the absolute truth.
W E reac hed Aberdeen next
afternoon. I saw Musweil-
brook from the top of the
wagon, so my recollections are
somewhat vague. Aberdeen
meatworks, where Mr. Jamison
was to load, were full-handed,
so we regretfully said good-bye
to him, and tramped off.
We were offered jobs at
Wingen at twelve-and-six a
week, which we scornfully
refused. We had heard a lot
about the burning mountain at
Wingen, and went to have a
look at it, but it wouldn’t
demonstrate for us and we
were somewhat disappointed.
Murrurundi was our next
town. At the junction of the
Liverpool and Moonbi ranges,
it is a pretty little town. It
seems to be in a hollow, but
actually it is very high. Nice
place, nice people, but no work,
so we kept on.
Four miles north we crossed
the Great Dividing Range for
the first time in our lives. On
the exact line where the waters
split stood a white post. It was
hard to realise that the water
flowing into the Hunter would
reach the sea in a little over
100 miles, while that flowing
into the Mooki would have
nearly 2000 miles to go.
It was a wonderful view. To
the east and south were the
coastal ranges, heavily timbered
and jugged. Murrurundi, look-
ing like a collection of dolls’
houses, seemed to be directly
under us. A few hundred feet
below was the railway-tunnel
and the railway running along
the mountainside. As the train
came out of the tunnel it
appeared to be running into a
cliff, on which was painted in
letters 10ft. high the words:
“Prepare ye to meet thy God.”
It must have been startling to
the passengers to be confronted
with a sign such as this.
To the north-west, where I
had expected great wide open
plains, it was still hilly country,
but lacking the ruggedness of
the south-eastern aspect. There
was a suggestion of size some-
thing like looking over the
ocean. We were both silent,
staring out over the low hills,
wondering what lay ahead.
W E went on to Ardglen, once
as Doughboy
Hollow, where Peter Clarke
was killed by the bushranger
Harry Wilson. A monument to
Clarke stands by the roadside.
Thunderbolt (Fred Ward) was
also well known in that district.
We yarned with a couple of
old chaps, one of whom was
reputed to have been a mate
of Thunderbolt’s at one stage
of his career. Both agreed that
Thunderbolt was a very fine
man, and was more sinned
against than sinning.
lust out of Ardglen we met
a young couple who were on
their way back to Sydney. The
man was carrying a swag and
the woman was pushing a pram
with a six-months-old baby girl.
The baby was thriving, and
her parents were not worrying
about the trip in front of them.
They had enough money to
see them to Sydney, and could
have gone by train had they
wished. They had been working
on a station on the Liverpool
Plains, but left for some
reason. With 70 miles behind
them and 200 to go, their only
worry was the wheels of the
pram. They doubted if the
tyres would see the journey out.
The woman, a pleasant-faced,
quiet type, said she was enjoy-
ing the trip, and she would be
happy so long as the weather
stayed fine. We camped near
them, and after tea went over
to their fire for a yarn. We
both had a wonderful time
nursing the baby.
'Till now we had met very
■*- few • swagmen, but at
Quirindi over 50 were camped
under the one bridge. We soon
found the reason for all these
men being here. All were look-
ing for burr-cutting, which was
a seasonal occupation on the
Liverpool Plains, as wheat-
harvesting is in other districts.
Many of these men never
left the Plains, but between
burr-cutting and work in the
shearing-sheds managed to
exist. The regulars were known
as “Plain Turkeys.” Most of
them were well up in years.
Among them was one I knew
by sight, “Cocker” Tweedie,
who had been a professional
boxer (and a very good one)
a few years before. He was
still a tough man, and was
treated with respect by all the
swagmen.
We heard of burr-cutters
being wanted at Pine Ridge,
15 miles west of Quirindi, so
out we went. About halfway
there were several bends in the
road, which followed a creek,
and tucked away in one of these
bends was a pub. It was hidden
from sight till one turned the
sharp corner, then in 50yds. it
was lost to view. The signboard
fascinated me ; it was faded,
but still legible: The Who’d
Ha’ Thought It; John Clarke,
Proprietor. No doubt it was
the surprise of finding a pub
in such an unexpected position
that inspired the name. (I was
informed in March, 1957, that


the building, delicensed many
years ago, is still standing, and
is used as a machine-shed.
Also, it is still referred to by
the locals who knew it in their
young days as The Who’d Ha’
Thought it.)
We got the jobs, and were
soon initiated into the art of
burr-cutting, at a pound a week
and tucker, 10 hours a day and
six days a week, the tucker
being mutton and damper, post-
and-rail tea and brown sugar.
( il Post-and-rail tea” might need
some explanation. There were
no leaves, but all stems. I have
heard it suggested that these
stems were soaked in nicotine
for three weeks before being
dried-out and sold to the
squatters, to be issued by them
in the station rations. Probably
my informant was being sar-
castic.)
On Sundays, as a special
treat, we got a boiled duff,
which we could sprinkle with
brown sugar to make it a little
more palatable. Fortunately
we had only two Sundays at
Pine Ridge.
At that time, and for many
years after, Bathurst-burrs
were the biggest problem the
squatters of the Liverpool
Plains had to solve. The burrs
crowded-out all the native
grasses, and, apart from being
useless as feed, the seeds got
in the wool, and no treatment'
in the processing would get
them out. This made burr-
infested wool practically worth-
less. Only by keeping at them
could they be controlled. In
the rich soil of the Pfains they
grew fast, so burr-cutting was
a full-time job, apart from
shearing. There were twelve of
us in the gang and we cut and
burned burrs for nearly three
weeks. It grew terribly
monotonous, and even Dutchy’s
cheerful optimism wore-out,
i so we collected our cheques and
made off.
j Y\/e went across to Werris
Creek, the junction of the
north and north-west railways.
Too many swagmen. So we
went out to The Gap, eight
miles on the Moree line.
Dutchy and I had decided to
keep to ourselves as much as
possible, so we avoided the
usual camping-places, where the
, mob camped. There were
1 always a few thieves, drunkards
and bullies among them. We
1 had both been taught how to
take care of ourselves, but we
had also been taught to avoid
trouble unless forced on us.
Breeza, on the Mooki, was
reached at noon the next day.
It was beautiful country, flat
for miles, with the Mooki like
! a silver streak running through
it. The grass was green and
high, with fat cattle, sheep and
horses spread over it.
Breeza homestead, the home
of the Clift family, was one of
the showplaces of the interior,
and I would always give it
first place. Everything about
it was attractive. On a low
hill overlooking the famous
Breeza Plains, fences painted,
paths gravelled, gardens both
flower and vegetable, all build-
ings seeming to be in their
right places, and well kept.
We spoke to a young lady,
whom we found to be Miss
Una Clift. She was very
pleasant, and took us in to the
manager, but he said they
seldom employed any casual
labor, and there was nothing
available at the time. Then
Miss Clift took us to the home-
stead kitchen and asked the
cook to fill our bags. When
this was done, we went to the
station store, where she issued
the travellers’ rations. Still not
satisfied, she led us to the
men’s cook and asked if he
wanted any wood cut. He was
an immensely fat man, and I
don’t think he could have
swung an axe.
We were at it bright and
early next morning. As soon
as the cook heard the axes he
came waddling out to inquire
anxiously whether we had had
breakfast. Though we assured
him we had, he insisted on us
having another feed. Even
when we did get a decent start
he would come out with tea and
brownies, and plead with us not
to work so “bleedin’ hard.”
We finished the stack at
three-o’clock, despite his efforts
to detain us, and were paid
eight-bob each. Miss Clift then
told us to come up and cut a
supply for the homestead. We
had two days at this job, which
was also held-up quite a bit
with cups of tea (not the post-
and-rail blend). Then, our
tucker-bags bulging, and 245.
each in our pockets, we left
Breeza with regret.
’Uy'HEN we got back to our
camp there were two young
swaggies from Sydney. They
were decent chaps, and we
enjoyed yarning with them and
getting the news of Sydney,
which they had left only the
week before.
Not seeing any sense in walk-
ing, they had “jumped the
rattler” all the way. The only
walking they had done was
from Werris Creek to Breeza.
They had heard in Werris
Creek that a goods-train would
stop to water at Breeza that
night at about 10-o’clock, and
they were going to board it at
the tanks. We reckoned we’d
be in that. Walking is a good
way to see the country, but it is
hard after a few hundred miles.
We saw the headlight when
it was 10 miles away, then
made our way to the tanks.
As it drew-up, we saw it was
made-up entirely of sheep-
trucks, two-decker jobs, which
are open to the view of every-
one ; therefore not looked on
with favor by jumpers.
We decided to take a chance,
and climbed into the top deck
of one. When the train moved
off we started to make our-
selves comfortable, and we all
agreed that it wasn’t too bad.
But at Curlewis the train
pulled-up, with our truck right
in front of the only light, and
the guard, enginedriver, fire-
man and a policeman gathered
under the lamp, laughing and
joking.
We crouched in the farthest
corner like frightened animals,
scarcely daring to breathe. I
had wild ideas of making a
break, but we had already
discovered that the door oppo-
site the station was locked. I
wondered what it would be like
in jail, and if they would knock
me about when arresting me.
It seemed years, but was
probably 10 minutes, I sat there
sweating, and I know none of
us could have lasted much
longer. At last the group broke-
up, and the puffing of the engine
and the rattling of the couplings
sounded like music to me. How
they missed seeing us is some-
thing I have never been able
to work-out. Perhaps they did
not want to see us. I never see
animals in a cage even now
without remembering Curlewis.
Talking it over, I found the
other lads had been in the
same state of panic as I had
been.
XII7E reached Gunnedah with-
out any further incidents.
The town is on the Namoi
River, and had a new bridge,
said to be the first concrete
bridge built in N.S.W.
The Annual Races and Show
were starting the next day, and
the town was crowded. The
races were on Saturday and the
Show on Monday. As Dutchy
and myself were both fair
boxers, we reckoned on picking-
up a few bob at the boxing-
show. We had no trouble in
getting opponents; Dutchy was
to box four rounds with a lad
from the show and I was to
take on a young aboriginal who
was travelling through with a
mob of cattle from Queensland.
Mostly these boxing-tent
affairs are supposed to be exhi-
bitions of skill, in which
neither man gets hurt. Some-
times you meet a man who can
fight, and likes to build his
reputation by beating one of
the showmen. My opponent was
one of this type. 1 was under
the impression that we were to
spar, but when the bell went he
came at me from taws. The
surprise attack tangled me up
in the first round. In the
second we stood up and
swapped punches till the bell
went, and, as neither of Us
heard it, we were dragged
apart.
I knew that I had held my
own that round. One good
thing, we were pleasing the
crowd, and, I think, we shared
the cheers equally. The third
round I boxed him, but soon
realised that he knew as much
of the finer points as I did. The
referee told us we were level
on points, and the fourth, and
last, round would decide the
winner.
There were no punches
barred in that round, and we
had to be pulled apart at the
finish. Then, somewhat to my
“My opponent said his name
was Jerry Jerome.”
[Above is Jerry, as Harry Julius
later saw him, in a scrap with Tim
Sullivan. “A five-minute corroboree
ended in Sullivan being dispatched
to oblivion.”]
surprise, the referee declared
a draw. I was quite satisfied
with the decision, because I
thought I had lost.
The spectators were pleased,
and there was a nice shower
of coins. Altogether I got 34-
bob, the hardest-earned money
of my life. My opponent said
his name was Jerry Jerome.
T didn’t go to the races; I
A was quite content to stay in
camp and lick my wounds. On
the Sunday night, we went
round the streets, Dutchy sing-
ing, while I took the hat around.
At the Catholic Church there
was a big crowd, and Dutchy
o Continued on page 58)


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Butter and Margarine
Whichever of our multi-
farious boards imagined that
raising the price of margarine
would increase the sale of
butter needs the advice of a
working housewife.
The sales of butter will
inevitably decrease as the price
of margarine rises. The woman
budgeting on a restricted
income be she pensioner,
aged person living on saved
income, or the mother of a
family reckons it out as
follows:
For a family of four she
bought:
21b. margarine at 2s. Hd.: 4s. 3d.
£lb. butter at 4s. 9d.: 2s. 44d.
6s. 7£d.
This week margarine rose by
sd. a pound, so she budgets
thus:
2jlb. margarine at 2s. 6£d.: 6s. s|d.
And who can blame her?
—Housewife (N.S.W.)
W.A. Road Boards
As a Westralian local-
government secretary-engineer
with 10 years’ service, half of
it in a one-man office, I must
call “G.S.” to account for his
comments in B. 5/11/’5B.
Ratepayers are permitted to
attend road-board meetings.
They must not join in the
debate or speak unless called
on to do so. The board is
empowered to “go into com-
mittee” and thus clear the
decks, but I have never heard
of a board objecting to the
presence of ratepayers at a
meeting. It would be very
silly of one to do so, anyway.
If there is “too much secrecy
surrounding [road - board]
meetings in W.A.'” that is the
fault of the ratepayers who
put-up with it, as they have the
remedy in their own hands.
Such “secrecy” certainly does
not apply to W.A. in general.
Apart from the ordinary
monthly meetings, which rate-
payers may attend, there is the
annual meeting of ratepayers,
where board - members other
than the chairman have to take
a back seat; also, a ratepayers’
meeting can be convened under
the Act at any time.
I doubt that the presence of
ratepayers would result in the
“standards of debate improv-
ing out of sight.” Road-board
members •in the main are
rugged individualists, who are
giving their time and work for
free. The presence of an
audience wouldn’t alter the
opinions of many I know, nor
their way of expressing them,
which is certainly well up to
the usual standard of Parlia-
mentary debates I have heard.
I can’t guess what plush-lined
set-up is referred to by “G. 5.,”
with his secretary “summoning
his stenographer,” but I can
vouch for the accuracy of my
own minutes, which are
reported in the local press. The
fanciful picture drawn by
“Easy on that wedding-bell !"
“GS.” is also wide of the mark
in many other offices of which
I have personal knowledge—
the secretary usually has to
hammer-out his own minutes
from the rough copy compiled
at the meeting. Stenographers
are pretty rare birds in country
road-board offices.
The statement that members
“can vet. the minutes” is an
extraordinary one. Of course
they can “vet.” them! What
the dickens are they there for,
if not to see that the minutes
are recorded accurately?
Local-government in W.A.
has its faults, but it is non-
political, the members are un-
paid and “perks” are carefully
policed, while advantages in
the way of business are almost
confined to straightout trading
over the counter —if a business-
man steps outside this narrow
limit he can lose his seat.
There seems to be an
enormous difference between
our brand of local-government
and eastern-States methods. —-
R.H. G. (W.A.).
Professors and Creative
Writers
K. L. Wells (B. 12/11/’5B)
says: “Of the 59 poets pub-
lished in the recent Penguin
Book of Australian Verse,
three-quarters are university-
educated.”
A check of the biographical
notes in this book shows that
25 of the 59 did not attend
universities. Of the 34 who
did, five studied science, law or
engineering and not arts. This
gives 30 who did not study
English language and litera-
ture at a university and 29 who
did—almost 50-50. Such a
statistical analysis signifies no
benefit either way.
K. L. Wells also says: “With
the single exception of John
Shaw Neilson, every well-
known name among them is
that of a university-educated
writer.” Exactly the opposite
is the case, and the non-
university poets include Dame
Mary Gilmore, Hugh McCrae,
Ethel Anderson, Ronald
McCuaig, lan Mudie and W.
Hart-Smith. The really signi-
ficant thing is that the non-
university poets furnish the
great majority of those who
have also had some success in
the field of prose-writing.
In a survey of the list’ of
Australia’s notable novelists,
playwrights and short-story
writers, most of whom do not
write verse, we find that the
majority never saw the inside
of any university, but, like
Henry Lawson, Arthur Upfield,
Ruth Park and Gavin Casey,
they did have considerable per-
sonal experience of the rough-
and-tumble of life.
Therefore, in addition to the
talent which no seat of learning
can confer, they did have
practical experience of love,
hate, hardship, success, disap-
pointment and all the rest of
the gamut of human emotions
which, in about 98 per cent, of
cases, have to be the personal
experience of the writer before
he or she can describe them M
moving, convincing prose.
Universities can aid creative
writing, but not by the usual
arts course, which concentrates
on criticism, dissection and
appreciation of what others
have written. It is done by


in ihc
fiulurc
Re-visiting Canada. I am more than ever
impressed by the way in which this country has
reached national maturity through her mineral
discoveries, principally oil.
Canada’s economy is basically agricultural, but
oil and minerals have strengthened it imposingly.
This is a powerful example to us at the present
point in our developmental history. With the first
flow of oil at Puri in Papua —following the positive
indications in Western Australia a few years ago—
we now know with certainty that oil exists both
on the Australian mainland and also in our
Papuan territory.
It only remains now to be discovered in
commercial quantity.
Canada’s story in that respect is much longer.
Oil was first found here, in Ontario, a hundred
years ago. But Canada did not become a substantial
producer until 1936. when the first heavy crude well
was hit upon in Alberta.
That enlivened the search which led to the
beginning of the post-war boom in 1947. In 1951
discoveries of oil and gas in Alberta were being
made at the rate of more than one a week.
Among the attendant activities was that singular
engineering feat of building a 718-mile pipe-line
to pump oil west across the Rockies to the Pacific
coast at Vancouver—a spectacular undertaking
which was started and finished within twenty months
in 1952-53.
All of this—the exploration, the discovery, the
resultant stimulus to the Canadian economy—was
brought about only after the drilling of many
hundreds of wells, and the investment of thousands
of millions of dollars. Canada chose the bold
approach, and it paid handsomely.
The lesson is that in the business of nation-
building there can be no price tag on Faith
and Initiative.
Whether the objective be oil or any other high
productive goal in Australia, there must be patient
persistence —and above that, the determined courage
to enable us to win past every temporary obstacle
that may lie in our way.
//Mtsfays
%
Toronto, Canada,
November, 1958.
means of a very different thing,
a course in creative writing,
which Australian universities
do not include, but which is
taught by many American col-
leges and by 21 of their lead-
ing universities, including
Notre Dame, New York, Syra-
cuse, Corpus Christi and
Vermont.
The tutors are either people
who have had a lot of work
of their own published and who
also have the ability to teach,
or people with considerable
experience as editors. The
criterion of a student’s work is:
does it get into print?
That may help to explain
why about 60 per cent, of the
articles published in English—
and over 80 per cent, of the
short-stories and the great
majority of plays for stage,
cinema, radio and TV —are
now written by Americans.
Only in the field of novel-
writing can people outside of
the U.S.A. still hold their own.
— H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
West New Guinea
“R.D.N.,” who complained
(B. 26/11/’5B) that Australian
newspapers were giving “a
kind of passive, or implied,
support” to Indonesia’s claim
to West New Guinea, has
introduced a curious note into
the argument. My impression
was entirely opposite, the most
recent example being a Sydney
paper's heading of “Sabre-
rattling speech by Soekarno”
over an item which disclosed
some quite moderate remarks
hy the President to a group
which admittedly provided
some fire-eating interjections.
This is the way that Australian
opinion is being “conditioned,”
and most stupidly for our own
mug-range interests, into con-
demning out of hand and
'vithout examination the whole
basis of the Indonesian claim.
Kingsley Martin, who felt
mat Australian official opinion
ls mistaken, warned us not to
accept catch-cries invented by
me Dutch to discourage accep-
tance of the Indonesian case.
1 believe that “R.D.N.” knows
nothing of the history of
ndonesian-Dutch relations or,
mdeed, of the East Indian
archrpelago in pre-European
His ignorance of ethnic and
u tural aspects of the area is
dually apparent, and his pre-
u lc es are fully showing. It
s Just this kind of intolerant
rpu r ° w hich makes our
Hiffi tlo , ns Asian nations
Jjmcult, and reinforces a
trend in Australian
thinking. We have to live as
nearby neighbors with all these
peoples, and it’s better to ex-
change courtesies and a few
vegetables over a fence, surely,
than to spend your time throw-
ing a lot of mud at your
neighbor’s house. Some
moderate and unprejudiced
thinking won’t jeopardise our
own national dignity or our
plans for a profitable and
peaceful future. Charles
Meeking (N.S.W.).
Day-labor v. Private Tender
The Westralian Government
has introduced a bill making
“collusive tendering’’ an
offence under the Unfair
Trading Act—which is known
as the Monopolies and Restric-
tive Trade Practices Control
Act. A “collusive tender” is
defined as a tender under a
scheme by which the subscrib-
ing parties arrange to restrict
competition among themselves
in tendering for the sale or
purchase of goods or for the
supply or use of services.
Ostensibly the object of the
bill is to save the State money
by ensuring that the lowest
tender will be submitted. A
much bigger saving could be
effected, and much more
easily, by simply increasing the
number of tenders called —in
other words, by calling tenders
for works now being done at
excessive cost by Government-
employed day-labor. Over the
past few years millions of
pounds’ worth of works have
been constructed in W.A.
without giving private enter-
prise the chance to tender. It’s
a safe bet the cost of these
works has been nearly double
what even a “collusive
tenderer” would have sub-
mitted. Recently, when a
Federal Minister announced the
Government’s decision to
spend a big sum in the north
of the State, he thought it
necessary to say that the
Federal Government hoped
the State Government would
have the works done by private
contract and not by day-labor.
The State Government uses
day-labor wherever possible,
and has created a situation
where tenders are called only
for the least profitable under-
takings—or projects where the
additional cost of day-labor
would be so colossal that even
a public resigned to civil-
service domination would kick.
In self-defence, private enter-
prise has to do something to
reduce the existing fierce com-
petition ; and if the Govern-
ment succeeds in imposing
further restrictions it should


lay the whole gamut of public
works open to tender. A
Public Works Department
which had to compete with
private enterprise mightn’t get
many jobs, but those it did get
would have to be done at
reasonable cost. Pieter
Nuyts (W.A.).
Smoking and Cancer
“Well-cured” (B. 19/11 /’5B)
complained that, except in
Melbourne, little newspaper
publicity was given the state-
ment of Dr. Kaye Scott that
medical opinion was now con-
firming the causative part
played by tobacco in lung-
cancer. The explanation of
this proper news-treatment of
the statement obviously is that
news-editors have become as
weary of it as their readers
and are waiting for the
medical scientists, who took-
over from the statisticians, to
say whether they can prove
the theory to be true or false.
Eight years have passed
since Bradford Hill and Doll
in the United Kingdom, and
Hammond and Horn in the
United States, produced
statistics which, they claimed,
indicated an association
between cigarette-smoking and
the rising incidence of lung-
cancer. It is 17 months since
the British Medical Research
Council announced that, in its
“I don't care — it's far too hot!"
opinion, the relationship
between the two was one of
direct cause and effect. So
much for Dr. Scott’s recently
discovered “confirmation.”
In the meantime, a great
number of independent
research projects have been set
up and, so far, no one has
established that cigarette smoke
or any one of its known con-
stituents causes cancer in man.
For those anti - tobacco
crusaders who place so much
reliance on statistics, these con-
tradictory findings are interest-
ing:
(1) Bradford Hill and Doll
said that inhalation was not
significant in the incidence of
lung-cancer. Hammond and
Horn suggested this factor as
part of the unique quality in
cigarettes that makes them
more hazardous than other
forms of smoking.
(2) Hammond and Horn
found that the incidence of
cancer of the stomach is 61
per cent, higher among smokers
than among non-smokers.
Bradford Hill and Doll found
the incidence of stomach-
cancer almost 50 per cent,
higher among non-smokers
than among smokers.
From the great mass of
words against smoking and in
its defence that medical men
have written or uttered in
recent years, it is abundantly
clear that there is a close
division of opinion on whether
it is a causative factor in lung-
cancer. One opinion cancels
out another, no progress in
the controversy is made and
neither contributes to a
scientific solution. Dr. Scott’s
statement came within these
categories and was treated
accordingly.
Sir Walter Ferguson Hannay,
a noted Harley Street surgeon,
didn’t mince words in rejecting
the smoking-lung-cancer theory
last week. He called it “abso-
lute nonsense” and said that
in ten years it will be looked
on as “just another of those
stupid things of the past, like
peacocks being unlucky.”—
Unproven (N.S.W.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 516
Across
I—Fur1 —Fur to keep one warm but cold in Cathay. (10)
s—Cork5 —Cork saucepans are back. (4)
9 —Accumulates beasts of burden which are not suitable
for the afternoon. (7)
11 — Poet to be rough on the relations. (7)
12 — Frank walkover for several. (4, 3)
13 — Why nothing doubled a toy. (4)
15—Make use of one Roman figure and go crook. (5)
16—Pop back my flower officer who
ensures you get what’s coming
to you. (9)
19 —No associate of Ginger Meggs’S
girl in name only. (9)
23 — Football’s mother depilatory of
quicklime and orpiment. (5)
24 — A cricket-team’s Hitler-dominated
alliance. (4)
26 —Push Abe into a wild vege-
table. (4, 3)
28 — Cinderella’s coach is to seek
information from relations. (7)
29 — Showing-off its king in an
improper way. (7)
30 — Book in my direction. (4)
31 — State of the unfit parent after a
blueblooded Peruvian metro-
polis. (10)
Down
1— Talk with a girl who’s influential
at the castle? (10)
2 One melancholy alternative to a
girl. (7)
3 Throw 45 inches over an intimate
of 1-down. (9)
4 Leap without a sweetly blushing
disease. (7)
6 How Miss Kendall might expect
to find her present inscribed
wine. (5)
7 Achieve some piercing color. (4)
8 — A secret-agent infested with
snakes. (4)
10 —The structure of an oganisatioh
is hard in heaven. (3-2)
14 —A hundred-about a majestic girl
key can change as when timbers
sound under pressure. (10)
17 — One way of holding a deflation-
ary device against a mother of
Caligula. (9)
18 — Conductor to scrutinise in one
Puccini heroine who has turned
in more than once. (9)
20 — Mother leads the cricket-team
and finally is silent, so make the
most of it! (7)
21 — The French act of censorship on
the land. (7)
22 — Votes in favor. (5)
25—Drunk by the Nip. (4)
27 —Nip tops-up this locality,
see? (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 515.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
NEW SUB. '/ RENEWAL
(Please cross out one)
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order for
months' subscription to The Bulletin.
RECIPIENT:
ADDRESS
DONOR: .
ADDRESS
GIFT SUBSCRIPTION : If the above is a Christmas gift
an appropriate Greedngs-card will be sent direct to the
recipient announcing your gift and signed on your behalf.
SIGN CARD :
Rates (A/asia): 1 year — £2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965. Wellington. N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year —19s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, Dec. 3
The Minister of Finance, Mr.
Nordmeyer, who has
built up a reputation as a
pessimist, was rather more
cheerful when he talked to
the Canterbury branch of the
Society of Accountants.
It looked as if N.Z. had,
economically, turned the
corner, he said.
That phrase, of course, made
the newspaper headlines, but
those who read the small type
saw that Mr. Nordmeyer was
still pretty cautious. The facts
didn’t warrant optimism, he
said. Neither did they warrant
pessimism.
That is, in fact, about as
far as it is safe to go. It may
be true that N.Z. has turned
the corner economically, but
there is still a long, uphill road
ahead.
For the 12 months ended
October there was a deficit of
f 11.3 million in overseas ex-
change transactions, com-
pared with a deficit of £14.2
million for the October, 1957,
year and a surplus of £4.6
million for the October, 1956,
year.
Effect of Borrowing
The main causes of this
improvement of £2.9 million
were increased official loans
and credits of £30.2 million and
reduced payments for private
imports of £3.7 million.
Compared with 1956-57,
total receipts increased by £11.3
million. Export receipts fell
oy £18.6 million, but capital
receipts increased from £13.2
million to £44.7 million. Of
th !f. sum £32 million (£1.9
million in 1956-57) was attribu-
te to Government borrowing
m London, New York and
Lanberra, and £7.6 million
r million in 1956-57) to the
realisation of Government
assets.
Wool receipts fell by £25.5
million to £84.5 million because
01 lower prices.
Butter receipts fell by £l.l
million to £39 million, also
because of lower prices. The
a w ould have been much
eater had not the volume of
a| es increased by about 20
Per cent.
Cheese receipts increased by
jy million because of a
•S er volume of sales, though
\l° Wer prices-
fin ? eat .. r ? Ce ‘P ts increased by
bp p ' m, lli°n and £82.1 million
bepf U * e * ar 8 e sa l es °f boner
800 d price's Un ' ted StatCS at
killinoJ f ’ dn ,ncrease m
__ <=s for export, and the
fact that, since the reductions
in the British Bank-rate from
7 per cent, to 4 per cent., the
time between the date of ship-
ment and the date the overseas
exchanges received by the
banking system in New Zea-
land had been shortened.
Total payments for the
year rose by £8.4 million to
£353 million. A fall of £3.7
million in payments for
private imports was more than
offset by an increase in pay-
ments for Government imports
and “other” private payments.
Effect of Import-control
The effect of import-controls
is now showing up more clearly.
Between January 1, 1958, the
date import-controls were
imposed, and the end of
October private imports cost
£200.5 million. For the com-
parable 10 months in 1957 they
cost £216.9 million. The reduc-
tion is £16.4 million.
Government import - pay-
ments in the 10 months to the
end of October this year
amounted to £27.1 million, as
against £25.3 million for the
comparable period of 1957.
Meat occupies the brightest
spot in the export market at
present.
Total receipts from meat
exports this year will be a
record —probably £l5 to £2O
million more than officially
estimated at the beginning of
this year and £5 million more
than the £BO million actually
earned last year.
In the 10 months to the end
of October earnings from meat
totalled £75.9 million, against
£64.7 million in the correspond-
ing period last year, an increase
of £11.2 million.
Total dollar-area earnings
from meat in the period from
January to September, 1958,
were the equivalent of £21.1
million, compared with £4.5
million in the same months of
last year and £887,000 in the
same months of 1956.
New Trade Pact
The basis of a new trade pact
between N.Z. and the U.K.,
signed last month, has been
well received.
In place of the minimum
20 p.c. margin of preference
accorded to British goods in
the present agreement —the
so-called Ottawa Agreement of
1932—N.Z. now has the right
to reduce preferences to as low
as 5 p.c. for a limited range of
chemicals, metals, tractors and
aircraft ; to 1\ p.c. for a wider
range of raw materials and
consumer-goods ; and to 10
p.c. for all other goods.
All existing rights and
preferences for N.Z. goods
entering the British market
have been preserved. The 15-
year right of entry for N.Z.
meat, agreed to in 1952, out-
side the 1932 pact, remains in
force.
Almost the only N.Z. criti-
cism of the revised agreement
has come from the chairman
of the Meat Board, Mr. J. D.
Ormond.
“At a time when other
nations and groups of nations
are integrating their trade, we
see the whittling-down of the
preferential system within the
British Commonwealth. That
situation is not of New
Zealand’s making,” he said.
“In easy times the signific-
ance of this may not be
apparent, but for us now, and
for the whole Common-
wealth in time of adversity, a
really strong agreement to
stand like a rock for Britain
and each of the Common-
wealth countries, is absolutely
essential, as it proved to be in
the slump years.”
Mr. Ormond said that, if
the principle of the original
Ottawa Agreement were to be
maintained, it was necessary to
have a definite ceiling on
foreign meat-supplies into the
U.K.
Because Britain had not con-
tinued to give N.Z. this specific
limitation of foreign supplies,
a large question-mark had
been left over in future in the
U.K. market.
Because of increased home-
production the U.K. market for
imported meats was likely to
contract. In spite of temporary
seasonal reductions in supply,
there remained the danger of
oversupply of meat in Britain,
and it was vital to N.Z. that it
restore in practice the prin-
ciple of Home and Common-
wealth supplier having first
right to the market.
Butter
In recent weeks N.Z. has been
supplying an estimated 70 p.c.
of all butter put into the retail-
shops in Britain.
During 1957 N.Z. had some-
thing like 40 p.c. of'the trade.
The proportion of N.Z. butter
to the total of all origins sold
throughout the U.K. has
shown an upward trend during
the past eight or nine months,
and sales had been particularly
good recently.
The Dairy Products Market-
ing Commission has at last
succeeded in arranging for the
establishment of a direct ship-
ping service from N.Z. to
South America. The service
will be supplied by the con-
ference lines and will be on a
two-monthly basis.


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE CALLIDE VALLEY
T>ack from a trip through
Central Queensland, I’ll
back the future of the Callide
Valley against that of any other
district I kpow.
When I last saw the
Callide, in the early 1930’5,
what wasn’t under cotton was
a seemingly endless tract of
silvery-green brigalow-scrub.
The roads were a motorist’s
nightmare. I remember taking
three days to get from
Goovigen to Biloela. Captain
Cook had nothing on us as we
circumnavigated one bog after
another.
Now the trip takes about an
hour. The main highways are
all-weather roads, and most of
the feeder-roads from the farms
off the main highways are
gravelled.
What impressed me most was
the change in farming. Thirty
years ago cotton was king.
A handful of farmers milked
a few cows and sent the cream
by rail to Rockhampton or
Wowan; but cotton paid the
bills and bought the machinery
needed to break-up the land
after the scrub was cleared.
Trains into the Valley then
A daily ration of
meadow hay is advis-
able to keep sheep in
good condition. The
feeding should be on
the basis of one bale
for every 100 sheep.
Hay must at all times
be kept sweet, sound
and dry. Only when
conditions are nearing
desperation will sheep
eat wet hay. Says an
authority—.“ This is a
natural inhibition —sheep
know that wet hay
is not good for them.”
It is not good for lambs,
either, to mark and tail
them in a way that
could cause set-back
and susceptibility to
attack by disease germs.
Elastrator Rubber Rings
should be used. They
enable the grazier to
mark and tail his lambs
in the most hygienic
way possible. This is
the reason why Elas-
trator Rubber Rings
are widely used in every
sheep-raising country in
the world.
were packed with rattler-
jumping cotton-pickers, coming
up for the season which started
about the end of February. The
trains out were loaded with
baled cotton for the ginneries at
Glenmore, near Rockhampton,
or Whinstanes, near Brisbane.
When picking was in full
swing the normal three trains
a week were increased to that
number a day. The Railway
“The interference is pretty crook around here.”
Department may have lost a
bit in revenue from ticketless
travellers, but they more than
made up for it in cotton-
freights. Anyway, the depres-
sion lay like a blanket over the
land, and a few tickets here
and there were nothing com-
pared with the value of a good
cotton-picker who could knock-
up a tally of 2001 b. a day.
Thus, cotton pioneered the
place ; but grain, beef-cattle,
pigs and dairying have pushed
it back to the role of a side-
line crop, used mainly as a
rotation with pasture and grain.
Practically every farm runs a
dairy-herd, while the dinkum
dairyfarmer milks up to 150-
head most of the year. A
modern butter-factory—one of
many owned by the Port Curtis
Co-op. Dairy Association —
handles all the cream at Biloela.
There are nearly 82,000-head
of dairy-cattle in the Valley,
and in 1957 the factory turned-
out about 4,000,0001 b. of
commercial butter, which is a
lot in any language.
Farmers coming into the
Valley from grainlands further
south, chiefly the Darling
Downs, have found that they
can grow grain in the new
country as well as they could
in the older districts. The land
is not dear by southern
standards, yet the crops are
comparable. Wheat-plantings
total over 24,000 acres, while
it is estimated that over 82,000
acres are under grain of various
kinds. Needless to say, there
are lots of pigs on the farms,
with plenty of skim-milk and
grain. The framework of a
modern bacon-factory is going-
up and, when completed, will
handle all the pigs the farms
can turn-off. Last year, of
17,000 pigs fattened on grain
and skim-milk, all except a few
went to the coastal meatworks.
A 27in. rainfall, combined
with a mild winter, favors a
variety of crops. There’s no
longer a need to have all the
eggs in one basket. A failure in
the cotton-crop used to be a
disaster for all; now a diversity
of crops buffers against
Nature’s whims.
The Callide Valley is the
home of Rhodes-grass. I’ve
seen it tried further south, but
there it can’t hold a candle to
the vast pastures that cover the
former brigalow-scrubs. A
mixture of Rhodes, buffel and
panic provides a well-balanced
sward for either beef or dairy
stock. Some men are throwing
in a handful of lucerne-seed for
good measure, and this
“shandy” mixture is doing well.
There’s a packet in harvesting
the seed, too. One chap told
me he took off nearly £ 1000-
worth of seed in one year.
In the seed-harvesting and
otherwise, modern machinery
has altered the face of the
Valley. Thousands of acres
of burnt scrub have been
cleared by modern machinery,
and now grow crops of grain,
cotton, peanuts and other pro-
fitable sidelines. Lucerne
does well in this ripped-up
scrub, provided the season is
anything like reasonable. The
heavy machinery has dug out
dams where underground water
was hard to find. There’s not
much country left now that
isn’t returning a living, and
most of it is productive enough
to stand the extra capital-
outlay. *
The discovery of coal near
Biloela, too, is something that
will help the Valley along. A
huge opencut with a seam
deep enough to keep the home-
fires burning for a long time is
being worked by Thiess
Brothers. At first the coal was
trucked by road to Gladstone
and shipped from there, but
now a railway-line shoots-off
into the hills to the south of
Callide. When I first saw a
Garrat engine pulling about 50
coal-trucks out in the hills, I
thought that Biloela beer must
have been a bit potent. I
remembered shooting kanga-
roos there and hadn’t known
then what I was walking on.
Last time I humped the roll
through that neck of the woods
I got a job picking cotton on a
farm on the Lawgi plateau. It
was a dry year, and we had to
lump water from a well about
four miles away —at least the
farmer did. The plateau sits on
a solid bed of basalt about
600 ft. deep. One chap put
down a bore and tapped the
water. There was oceans of it,
but the cost of the bore nearly
broke him. Now there is a
water-scheme that supplies the
plateau. The Government put-
down a well on the Kariboe
Creek ; water is pumped from
there to storage-tanks scattered
around the high points and
reticulated to all farms. Who-
ever thought-out that scheme
had something more than hair
under his hat, because without
water the plateau wouldn’t be
worth a tinker’s curse.
Some of the younger farmers
tell me that irrigation will soon
be coming into its own. One
farm now irrigates lucerne, and
turns-off fat-lambs. An old
hand once told me the Valley
would again come back to
sheep. The remains of a
Chinese shepherd’s hut used to
stand about a mile out fronj
Thangool, and the wool use


BRANCHES:
229 ELIZABETH ST.,
MELBOURNE
243 RUNDLE ST.,
ADELAIDE
£7/1 07-
dashboard
CLOCKS
Longines-W ittnauer
•super quality dashboard
docks. High precision.
8-day jewel movement,
with sweep second hand.
Will keep accurate time,
under conditions of in-
tense vibration. Fit one
to your ear or truck.
Packing and postage 3/-.
PRISMATIC
COMPASS
Oil filled army type fully
reconditioned in our own
workshops. Calibrated
0-300 degrees. Inlaid
Mother-of-Pearl s c a 1 e.
Cover glass rotates. Pris-
matic sight and hair line
in lid enable bearings to
i»e taken with absolute
accuracy to one degree.
The most accurate small
compass avai 1 a b le.
diameter 2\ inches.
Pack, and reg. post 4/-.
£l2/10/-
home lighting
GENERATOR
IF you haven’t already
'••stalled a lighting plant
or if yonr old unit is
giving trouble, now is
the time to get a K.X.
generator. The K.X.
Generator which delivers
? tu| l 1.500 watts is the
jueal generator for vour
plant. 4 home lightiuS
lacking and delivery
rail 5/-.
BKNDIX Voltage Regi
•ator and Cut Out to Su
k -a. Generator.
Only £3/10/-
Pack and post S/0.
u
TRADING CO.
96 OXFORD ST., SYDNEY
Mail Orders:
Box 22 Oxford St. Post Office.
MAIL ORDERS TO YOUR NEAREST BRANCH. SORRY NO C.O.D.
THESE BRAND NEW LINES MAKE WONDERFUL GIFTS
3
30 power
TELESCOPE
£7/19/6
Imported, exceptional power
for such a low price. Complete
with 8 inch tripod. Blued lens.
24 inch long. Pack and Post.
5/.
COMPASS
37/6
A wonderful gift for any car
owner, with suction cup to
stick on windscreen or dash.
Pack, and Post. 2/6.
20 POWER
TELESCOPE
£3/19/6
Pocket telescope in pigskin
case, only 7in. long folded.
Blued lens. More powerful
than the most expensive
binoculars Ideal hikers,
tourists. Pack, and Post.
19/6
SPORTSMAN'S
BATTERY
Non-spill wet battery. 2 volt
33 amp. hour; lightweight
plastic housing. Ideal campers,
flounder spearing, etc. Pack
and Post. 5/
307-
MUSIC BOX
INSERT
For making your own music
box. Anyone who likes mak-
ing things will love one of
these. Swiss made. Danube
Waves, Silent Night,
Blue Danube and many other
tunes. Pack, and Post. 1/6.
79/6
300 POWER
MICROSCOPE
Beautiful imported instru-
ment. Three objectives giv-
ing 100 X. 200 X and 300
mags. Complete with slides
in neat wood case Pack,
and post. 3 6.
No. 1
10/
No. 2
27/6
No. 3
15/-
No. 4 7/6
YOUR SON WOULD LOVE TO BUILD A XTAL SET
Quality imported parts of the latest design.
IXtal Earpiece. An alternative to
. headphones (No. 2). Just like a
hearing aid in appearance.
High Impedance Headphones.
3 Slug Tuned Coils. Eliminates ex-
• pensive variable condenser. Newest
idea in Xtal set parts. Matching
fixed condenser supplied with each
coil.
4 Plastic Cabinet. Makes your
• set look like a miniature man-
tel radio, 5” long.
Germanium Diode, 3/6.
£ Pointer Knob to suit coil, 1/-.
7. Roll of Aerial Wire, 5/-.
0 Circuit and instructions, 6d.
Packing and postage 1/- separate parts or 3/6 per set.
Sr~^' '
SLEEPING BAGS
Brand new. Bound seams, tailored
hood for extra warmth, quilted
Japara covered glazed cambric
lining and extra wide foot room.
STANDARD sft. 9in. . £3/9/6
SPECIAL 6ft. 4in. . . £4/12/6
Packing and postage 5/-.
EVERY FARMER NEEDS AN ABNEY LEVEL
£7/10/-
sN
//
Imported Sin. Abney levels for
cheeking levels, measuring slope or
finding height. Invaluable for build-
ing or survey work. Incorporates
combined sight and sensitive spirit
level, polished veneer scale and
vernier which read accurately to 1/6
of a degree. Complete in leather
carrying case with shoulder strap.
Packing and registered post 3/6.
Mims
22/6
PRISMATIC
TELESCOPIC
SIGHT
These 2-power prismatic-
sights can be adapted
into a useful Telescopic
rifle sight. They also
make an excellent sight
for the Astro compass
(below).
racking and postage 4/-.
nib
Make Your Own
DUMPY LEVEL
With the Astro Compass.
This compass can be
made into an accurate
level with the addition
of a telescopic sight
(above). It has a declin-
ation scale with micro-
meter adjustments. Azi-
muth circle, cross levels
and adjustable turntable
fully calibrated.
Packing and postage 8/-.
/
25/- per mile
BARGAIN PRICE
WIRE
Telephone wire for
private phone lines or
HORTICULTURAL nse.
such as growing beans,
passionfruit or other
climbing plants, for
espalier work or any of
the thousand and one
jobs which require a
strong weatherproof
wire. Thin stranded
steel and copper wire
with a tough weather-
proof covering. Breaking
strain about 2001bs. Sup-
plied on steel drums.
Gross weight 601bs.
Delivery to rail 5/-.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1818
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. O. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches in nil States Agencies in all Country Centres
to be sent to the coast via
Kroombit station.
I felt a bit lost, coming back
to the Valley after more than
25 years. I missed the scrub-
fires, the cotton-pickers round
the towns waiting for the
season to open. In place of
these things they now have
modern farms, well worked
and paying their way ; towns
like Biloela where you can get
all you want without having
to shop by catalogue, and roads
that don't make you old getting
there.
Incidentally, The Bulletin
has something of a stake in the
Callide. One of its poets, Lex
McLennan, grows wheat there,
but Lex was out when I called
to see him. Anyway, he
wouldn't remember me; he
was only a lad when I last met
him.
Bottle-jaw.
Onion-planter
“North”: A Lockrose (S.Q )
farmer has designed and built
an onion-planter, comprising
an old car-chassis, a Whippet
differential, a Chevrolet gear-
box, an old B.S.A. motorbike
gearbox and a new 6 h.p. B.S.A.
engine.
The rim and spokes, of an
old wheel have been welded to
the hub of a differential wheel,
so that the tractor’s wheels
can run between the 13in.-
spaced rows of plants.
The little machine will sow
the seed, scarify and spray the
crop, and will harvest the
onions when ready, handling
four rows at a time.
An extension of the chassis
at the rear forms a platform to
carry two tanks of spray, and
eight rows are sprayed simul-
taneously. Power is obtained
from a centrifugal pump,
worked from a pulley on the
gearbox. A handy lever allows
the implements to be lowered
or raised easily.
Silage
“K.G.S.”: These words of
wisdom on silage, spoken by
Bert Kelly, of Merindie, Tarlee
(S.A.), should be studied by
everyone: “Go like blazes,
cut, cart, and consolidate.”
That advice contains all that
need be known about silage-
making.
What determines the quality
of silage is, in the main, the
quality of the crop. The simple
mechanics of building a stack
or filling a silo almost auto-
matically produce a satisfac-
tory fermentation.
Again I quote Bert Kelly:
“It doesn’t take brains to
pickle grass.”
What you read about
“correct temperatures” and
suchlike is mostly so much
tosh.
Navy-beans
“North”: Farmers in the
Kingaroy district of southern
Queensland are growing navy-
beans for canning, and growers
in other parts are sowing
experimental plots. Demand for
the beans from manufacturers
of canned goods far exceeds
supply, and hundreds of tons
are imported annually.
The navy-bean will succeed
in any soil that suits the
ordinary French-bean. Loams,
silt-loams and clay-loams are
best, though fertile sandy
loams will give excellent yields,
too.
The seed-bed should be
deeply worked and its surface
brought to a fine tilth. If the
ground is poor, apply a mix-
ture of sulphate-of-potash and
super, in equal proportions at
the rate of Hcwt. to 2cwt. an
acre.
Seed is sown from October
to January, in drills 28in.
apart at a depth of yin. to lin.,
using an ordinary combine and
allowing every fourth drill-
hole to run. If weeds are
troublesome, shallow cultiva-
tion can be given when the
plants are young. But don’t
cultivate when they are wet
with dew or rain, since blight
and anthracnose are more
easily carried from plant to
plant in such conditions.
When ripe, the crop is
taken off with an ordinary
wheatheader, slightly modified
and run at a speed that will not
crack the seeds in the drum.
The Queensland Navy Bean
Board in Brisbane will supply
seed and information about the
bean to anyone interested in
sowing the crop.
Millet
“Billjim”: Trials at the
Burnley (Vic.) research-
laboratories show Japanese-
millet to be particularly sensi-
tive to dry conditions. Once it
is established and growing
strongly, summer rains are
sufficient for normal growth.
It gave the best germination
when sown in moist soil and
watered immediately, and also
where the seed was sown in
drill-rows rather than broad-
cast. Late spring seems the
ideal season for sowing.
The Jumbo Egg
“Spin”: Westralian egg -
producers and the W.A. Egg
Marketing Board are at logger-
heads over the need to intro-
duce a new “jumbo”-pack for
eggs weighing more than
2 7/16oz.
As things stand, first-quality
eggs weighing between 2oz.
and 2foz. qualify for the
special export-bonus of 2d. a
dozen. This encourages pro-
ducers to favor birds which will
produce eggs that size soon
after coming into laying. That's
what decides between profit
and loss, because there’s a
difference of 7d. a dozen all
told between the 161 b. and
141 b. export-packs—and a hen
producing the smaller egg may
eat as much as one laying the
larger.
The catch is that a hen which
lays big eggs early in its pro-
ducing-life usually lays a lot
of jumbo-eggs before the end
of its first season, and may lay
a preponderance of big eggs in
its second year. So the farmer
w'ho has responded to the Egg
Board’s appeal for large eggs is
on a losing wicket.
Producers argue that the
public would welcome a special
“jumbo”-pack and willingly
pay more for it —by weight, if
necessary, although they think
there’s a better arrangement.
Eggs might be priced so that
the buyer would gain and at the
same time the producer
wouldn’t be penalised. In
other words, the board might
pay producers the same price
for first-quality overweight eggs
as they pay for export 161 b.
packs, and charge consumers
enough to cover the cost of the
extra handling involved.
The board doesn’t favor the
scheme, arguing as follows:
1. If the price for the
“jumbos” was fixed on weight,
it wouldn’t be attractive ; if it
wasn't based on weight it would
make prices for the other grades
look excessive.
2. If the “jumbo”-pack
proved popular the retailers
who couldn’t get it would
kick, and there’d always be a
shortage and consequently-"
rationing, because only an
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(27/1 1 /’58)
Queensland should have general rains in December,
with heaviest falls in the southern half of the State and
likelihood of flooding in the Burnett, Darling Downs,
Maranoa and Warrego districts. Rainfall may be patchy
in January, apart from heavy falls in the Peninsula, north-
west and south-west areas.
General rains should occur in N.S.W. during December,
with heaviest falls on the North Coast and the northern
tablelands and north-west areas. Rainfall may be patchy in
January, although general rains are likely in February.
General rains are indicated in Victoria during
December, with heaviest falls in the east-central and north-
east districts, though only moderate in the Mallee and
northern divisions. Good rains should continue in southern
Victoria during January, with heavy general rains during
February.
General rains should be received in South Australia
during December, with moderate follow-on rains in the agri-
cultural areas during January. Moderate to heavy rains
should occur in the agricultural areas and n.-w. interior
during February.
The Kimberleys of Western Australia should receive
heavy rains during December, with good faMs in the Eucla
and south-east districts and part of the south-west agricul-
tural areas. Rainfall may be poor in January.
LENNOX WALKER.


Tailored
to
Your
Measure
For Polo or Show Riding
Bvrnc Bros. Polo and Show Biding Boots are
famous throughout Australia for correctness of
style, comfort and smartness. Available only as
an individual order.
Tailored-to-measure from imported German calf,
with or without zipp, stiff or semi-stiff. Any
style or design * 34 gns. i
YRNE BROS. PTY. LTD.
Quality Shoemakers and Repairers
15 WILMOT STREET, SYDNEY
( Opposite the Trocadero)
estimated 20,000 dozen come
in now.
3. Packing would be awk-
ward and expensive—y.ou’d
only get 15 dozen in a 30-
dozen case, and that would
increase the maintenance and
cartage charges.
4. There'd be a lot of break-
ages, because of odd and bigger
sizes, and also because extra-
large eggs are often thin-
shelled.
There’s a solution some-
where, and it will have to be
found. The trend towards big
eggs will continue as breeders
respond to the producers’
demand for stock which will lay
big eggs early ; and that
20,000 dozen a year now could
grow into a figure worth
reckoning with in a couple of
years’ time.
Philippines "Pleuro."
“A.C.T.”: The Department
of Health in Canberra has re-
futed reports that pleuro. has
been introduced into the
Philippines by Australian
breeding - cattle recently im-
ported there.
In addition to the normal
health - certificates, Australian
animal - quarantine authorities
insist on special safeguards for
cattle exported to the Philip-
pines. Anyway, investigations
by the Director of Pathology
in the Queensland Department
of Agriculture have proved
that pleuro. isn’t present there,
and that most of the reported
losses have been due to malnu-
trition, poor husbandry and
acute liver-fluke infestation.
No Help from Trees
“Arbri”: The Wimmera
(Vic.) Regional Committee has
been trying to establish a
reliable weather-pattern by
studying the annual growth-
rings of trees, but a reporf
from the director of the State
Forestry and Timber Bureau
holds out no hope on those
lines.
Unlike the long-lived
American redwoods and other
conifers, he said, most of our
(rocs do not show such rings.
Ht the few that do, one was
found with growth-rings dating
from a.d. 1548 to a.d. 1942,
ut it’s hardly possible to base
a weather-cycle on such rare
examples.
There are a few Tasmanian
ees over 250 years old, but
these are no longer
und m the core. Nor is there
wa y of distinguishing
between rings for years of
average rainfall with mild
temperatures and those of high
rainfall with cold conditions,
or of knowing whether gum-
veins are due to bush fire
injury or to some other cause.
Fuller data over the last
century could be obtained from
a relatively large number of
trees, he said, but this was too
short a period for accurate pre-
diction of weather-cycles.
Lupins for Drift-
control
“Billjim": Tests in New
Zealand have shown that the
bitter blue lupin may help
Australian farmers in the
fringe-country, especially those
troubled by drift from sea-
sand in coastal areas.
These tests proved the lupin
superior to ryecorn in its
ability to establish itself on
bare, wind-blown sand. When
drilled in wet sand, either in
autumn or in early spring,
lupins grew quickly and were
sufficiently well grown by the
time the sand dried to' prevent
further movement of the areas
planted.
The lupins must be drilled
across the direction of the
prevailing wind, to prevent
wind-funnels developing along
the rows and causing blowouts.
Dead stubble can be left, and
will give excellent protection
during the hottest and driest
months. With autumn rain, the
fallen seed will germinate
among the litter, but it's best
to disk it in and then at once
sow that area to pasture or
plant. trees to assist the
stabilisation process.
Where early autumn rains
germinate the seed from the
first crop the lupins can be
fed-off by sheep and the grass-
seed sown and tramped in at
the same time or soon after
feeding-off. If pot allowed to
grow too high and dense the
second lupin-crop gives good
protection, and the dead stems
and trash will give good shade
during the next summer if the
area isn’t too heavily or con-
tinuously grazed.
For maximum cover, three
bushels of seed an acre are
needed, with extra seed to
redrill any weak areas.
Patches of vegetation like
marram-grass should be
removed to allow the sand to
flatten-out before drilling.
Complete dunes must be
treated in one operation, start-
ing from the seaward side;
they should be as even as
possible in contour to allow
for even drilling. Where dunes
have built into high ridges, start
on the windward side and work
up the slopes as far as there's
a chance of the lupins holding
the sand.
The Snake-bean
“Myall”: During summer
especially in the inland it's
difficult to grow vegetables for
farm use. The snake-bean,
however, will thrive and bear
politically throughout the
warm season, with only a
minimum of attention. It’s
often called the “asparagus”
or “yard-long” bean, and, like
the miscalled “cow-peas,” be-
longs to the vigna family.
. , . , , , J
A deep, rich, sandy loam
sui s it best, but it will produce
b!g crops on any soi that is
well worked, reasonably fertile
and rich in humus.
The snake-bean is a
vigorous climber, reaching
10ft. under favorable condi-
tions, and so needs support;
tall frames, covered with wire-
netting, are ideal. Allow the
plants plenty of room, spacing
the frames 6ft. apart, with the
seeds 18in. apart in the rows.
Although this bean can with-
stand hot, dry weather, it
responds to ample supplies of
moisture.
The flowers are produced in
pa ‘ rs 011 a stem about 4in - lon S>
an d : the pods are ready for
£ ck, u n S SIX °r seven days after
tbe b[ ° s o SOm dl «- They grow
about 18,r V to , 241 - lon - and
aie r lound ’ slender and en "
Hrely stringless. Their flavor
1S debcate and agreeable, re-
ser7ibllrfF that ot fparagus
a ovved .,. to decom e old
the bean D s be . tou «£ and
coarse. Pick them just before
they are f u iiy grown—before
the seec ) s begin to swell in the
pods Like all beans, they need
picking regularly if the plants
are to con ti n ue to bear good
crops over a long period,
This bean is not attacked
by the bean-fly, which plays
havoc with most other varieties
during the summer.


sang “Ave Maria” ; then some-
one asked for “Mother
Machree.” We got nearly a
pound in the hat before we
left. From there we went to
the Church of England and got
another good collection with
“Abide with Me,” and “Lead
Kindly Light.”
On Monday, Charlie Prince,
the boxing-show proprietor,
wanted me to have another go,
but I was in no condition for
boxing. Ernie Bell, the star
heavyweight of the show, was
the older brother of Colin Bell,
who was to be the heavyweight
champion of Australia for
several years.
T saw very little of the Gunne-
dah Show. But 1 saw the
entry of the Willsallen family
into town. ,
This was always one of the
main events of Gunnedah. An
old-fashioned coach, imported
from London, four high-step-
ping bay horses, coachman, one
footman on the box-seat and
another on the back step, all in
silver-braided livery, complete
with top-hats and cockades. It
was an imposing sight.
The locals did not spare a
second glance, as this was a
weekly feature, but the visitors
were greatly impressed. Un-
fortunately, most of their
remarks were not very respect-
ful, the working-man of that
time being of the opinion that
he was as good as any other
man.
Willsallen, of Gunnible, a
fairly big station a few miles
out of Gunnedah towards Tam-
worth, was a pompous man
who spoke with an affected
Oxford accent. He was firm in
his belief that the working-man
and the rabbits were the worst
plagues in Australia, in that
order.
YX/L jumped the rattler at 11-
o’clock, and woke-up at
Narrabri in daylight. The train
pulled-up half-a-mile from
West Narrabri, and men
climbed out of every truck. The
train crew waved to us as we
walked past the engine. There
was nothing they could do
about it.
The banks of the Namoi
were crowded with swagmen.
There was a railway under con-
struction from Narrabri to Wal-
gett and Collerenibri, and
another was rumored to be
starting to Coonabarabran. So
men were flocking from all
quarters to Narrabri. There
were over 200 men there at one
time, and most of them were
broke. They lived by going
around the stations and collec-
ting the travellers’ rations.
Then, back into town for fear
they might miss a job.
An explanation of travellers’
rations will not be out of place
here. Most of the outback
stations issued rations to
travellers, not as a charity—
probably charity would be the
last thing in their minds —but as
a means of ensuring a plentiful
supply of casual labor. To their
credit, most of the squatters did
not stick strictly to the bare
issue as prescribed by the
Pastoralists’ Union (which was
101 b. of flour, 101 b. of meat,
21b. of sugar and a -fib. of tea),
but would hand out a few items
such as a tin of jam or a tin of
“The business has been expanding.”
baking-powder. Any station
that was noted for a generous
handout always had plenty of
men to choose from, but the
tight ones were avoided by any
self-respecting swagman.
We didn’t intend to stay, but
at nine-o’clock a fire broke-out
in the main street. There was
no fire-brigade, so we formed a
double line of buckets to two
wells, and managed to keep it
from crossing the street, though
it was touch-and-go a few times.
All the places burnt were of
timber, except the hotel, which
was the last to go. When the
fire reached the pub it had
steadied-up a bit, and gave us a
chance to drench the building
next in line. The pub yard
made the break we needed.
Fourteen buildings went up in
smoke, several men were
severely burned and one man
fell down a well and broke his
arm. All the injured men were
swagmen.
Had not so many men been
available, Narrabri would have
been wiped out. Shopkeepers
were rushing in when their
shops were well alight, dragging
furniture, boxes and junk of
all kinds onto the footpaths,
and impeding the work of the
bucket-brigade. It looked as
though it would develop into a
panic until a few clear-headed
men took charge. The police
had to forcibly restrain people
from rushing in to save their
possessions, when to do so
would have meant certain death.
We patrolled the burnt area till
daylight, dousing embers here
and there.
There were a couple of men
arrested for looting, and I was
pleased to know they were not
swagmen.
{To be continued next week)
and grinned its mong. friendli-
ness for all comers.
“Painfully shy,” said the
woman. “Talks a different
language, I suppose.”
Bewildered embarrassment
pricked hotly at the boy ; he
clung to the dog with both
hands. The dog must not get
away and leave him alone
under the scrutiny of the two
blank, waxy faces.
“Fine pup you’ve got there,”
said the man sportingly. “What
make is it? Any particular?”
He spoke loudly, as if into a
telephone.
“I . . . dunno,” mumbled the
boy.
“How old is it?”
“I . . . dunno.”
“I don’t expect he knows
how old he is,” said the woman.
“They don’t, sometimes.”
“Good sort of life,” said the
man. “When you’re young.
The real bush.”
Comprehension had come to
the boy; these adults, he
thought, were more clueless
than most, and there was no
need to disillusion them; he
would paint in a bit more
local color.
“I reckon,” he said, assum-
ing his best mid-western
accent. “Me and my pardner
live dandy. We’re makin’
camp right here tonight. And
we’re goin’ to catch a coiiple
echidnas f’r supper. You cover
’em up in mud and roast ’em
under the fire, and when they’re
done the spines fall off and they
taste real good —like chook.”
“Echidnas,” said the woman.
“They eat echidnas!”
Voices were calling at the
other end of the gorge; the
words were distorted and
flung back by the echoes, but
the boy thought gloomily that
he could distinguish his own
name ; involuntarily he slack-
ened his grip on the dog's neck
and it suddenly shook itself
free and bounded away.
“Hi —come back! ” called the
boy, but his shouts were lost
among the agitated echoes,
drowned in the rushing river.
The dog disappeared into the
dimness of the crowded,
triassic ferns, and the boy,
scrambling and stumbling over
the boulders, gave chase.
’T'he woman glanced at the
-*■ river and said: “Nothing
much to see.”
“No,” said the man. “Getting
latish, too.”
They began slowly to retrace
their steps.
When they got back to the
car the sun was low behind
the hills ; the woman waited,
huddled into her coat, while
the man reversed in the narrow
space.
They had gone some way
along the .steep, rutted road
when they noticed the small,
dingy weatherboard shack
with its patched iron roof and
sack-draped windows-; in the
black mud of the backyard a
few scraggy chickens clustered
round a woman with a
bucket; she glared suspiciously
at the looming car from under
a greasy mop of hair.
“I suppose that’s where the
little boy lives,” said the
woman in the car. “Horrible,
isn’t it? Oughtn’t to be
allowed.”
“Good sort of life for *
(Continued on page 61)


Who Killed Cock Robin?
PLACING THE BLAME
Stocktaking after an elec-
toral defeat is something
the leaders of Federal
Labor have had plenty of
practise at since 1949, and the
latest reverse will naturally be
the occasion for much soul-
searching if not for witch-
hunting. The obvious step that
occurs to outsiders —dump the
Doc. may not appear so
simple to those on the inside.
It is one thing to maintain that
Labor will never win under
Evatt; it is quite another to
convince doubters that it can
win under another leader. One
problem is to agree on a suc-
cessor ; another is to agree
on a policy.
Labor leaders may be
pondering the policy question
in private, but their public
utterances don’t suggest any
realisation of the fact that they
lost the election because the
people either didn’t want their
policy or didn’t believe they
would be able to carry it out.
Dr. Evatt ascribed his party’s
defeat to a “blatant and fraudu-
lent decepfion of the Australian
people.” He quoted his deputy-
leader, Arthur Calwell, as say-
ing that the issuance of Dr.
Mannix’s statement on D.L.P.
preferences was “a deliberately
timed bomb designed to weaken
the Labor vote at a time when
the statement could not be fully
or effectively answered or
carefully considered.” He said
that Santamaria’s political
views were identical with those
of Menzies, and that the latter
had “contrived to create ?.
force in Australian politics on
the pattern of European totali-
tarian parties.” He spoke of
‘the intolerable and un-British
methods used by the Mannix-
Menzies axjs.”
Mr. Calwell, interviewed on
tv the night after the poll,
jvas asked whether he thought
Dr. Mannix’s statement had
tost Labor many votes. He
replied that it would have had
s °me effect, but “the damage
Was done to the Labor party’s
h>y people who supported
D-L.P. 12 to 18 months ago
jmd has been continued all
through this year.”
“We’ve Bin Robbed!”
T HE a Federal president of the
a 1„ A-L-P., p g Chamberlain,
dlso maintained that Labor had
been robbed of victory by the
evil machinations of its
enemies. He said, “The Aus-
tralian Labor Party was decis-
ively defeated due to the fear
of Communism, particularly on
the part of a section of the com-
munity whose religious per-
suasion makes it susceptible to
the sustained propaganda to
which it has been subjected.”
Chamberlain said that “on this
occasion the Liberal party was
quite content to play second-
fiddle to the D.L.P. so far as
Communist propaganda was
concerned.” This was because
the Prime Minister knew the
power of his new ally, “the
liltra-conservative D.L.P., with
its intimate entree into the
very homes of thousands of
electors who could be relied
upon to vote in accordance
with instructions.”
D.L.P. Vote Analysed
'T'his insistence that the
D.L.P. was the sole reason
for the Government’s win—or
for Labor’s defeat and the
assumption implicit in it that
all D.L.P. voters are ex-A.L.P.
supporters just won’t hold
water. In 59 of the 122 seats
the Government candidates
scored an absolute majority
over the combined A.L.P. and
D.L.P. vote, and in 36 the
A.L.P. man scored an absolute
majority over the Government
and D.L.P. candidates. This
leaves 27 seats in which the
D.L.P. preferences had to be
distributed. Labor led on
primary votes in 14 of the 27,
and of these it won eight.
On the figures, then, failure to
get a majority of the D.L.P.
preferences cost the A.L.P. six
seats. The Menzies Govern-
ment’s majority is 32.
Obviously the Mannix pro-
nouncement had some influence
on the D.L.P. vote in Victoria.
In Maribyrnong the proportion
of second-preferences given
to the Government rose from
82 per cent, in 1955 to 88 per
cent. Even more significantly
the proportion cast against
P. J. Clarey (A.L.P.) in
Bendigo increased from 62.4
per cent, to 86.5 per cent.
Despite this, Labor lost no
seats in Victoria that it held in
the last Parliament.
In Westralia, where Labor
suffered its greatest reverse,
being defeated 3-2 in the
Senate and losing two seats in
the Reps., the Mannix state-
ment received very little pub-
licity—Perth’s only morning
daily gave it five inches on an
inside page—so Chamberlain’s
excuses are not likely to cut
much ice in his own State.
The loss of Kalgoorlie after
36 years of Labor occupancy
must surely be linked with
former member H. V. John-
son’s scathing criticism of Dr.
Evatt’s leadership, and it is not
merely a coincidence that C. H.
Webb, who lost Stirling, was a
member of Evatt’s “Shadow
Cabinet’’ and a close associate
of Chamberlain.
Perth is another seat where
disapproval of the Evatt-
Chamberlain leadership is
apparent in the voting. Former
member T. P. Burke, a critic
of Evatt, ran Liberal F. C
.Chaney to within 1039 votes
when he lost the seat in 1955.
Burke was then dropped by the
A.L.P., and on November 22
Chaney had an absolute
majority over the A.L.P. and
D.L.P. candidates.
The A.L.P. vote in Perth was
down by far more than could
be accounted for by the
D.L.P .’s intrusion. The only
Westralian seat in which the
Labor vote improved was Fre-
mantle (now the only W.A. seat
held by Labor). Its holder,
Kim Beazley, can hardly be
regarded as a 100 per cent,
admirer of Evatt, and he is
far from being a favorite son
of the Federal executive.
In the Senate poll the
Government candidates in
Westralia received more votes
than the A.L.P. and D.L.P.
combined, a result that can’t
be explained away on sectarian
grounds.
Not long after the 1955 elec-
tion Chamberlain diagnosed
the reasons for the A.L.P.
defeat. He said that too many
political careerists had found
their way into the party for
the sole purpose of getting a
seat in Parliament; also that
unworthy persons had been
able to get A.L.P. endorsement
because too many people
accepted Labor without under-
standing its policy. This was
candid talk, although the
A.L.P. president didn’t say
whether any of the careerists
or unworthy persons still
remained in Parliament. Poli-
tical careerists, of course, are
not the exclusive burden of
any party.
As to the second charge,
Labor rank-and-filers can
surely be excused for not
understanding A.L.P. policy
when even A.L.P. leaders differ
among themselves, and, indi-
vidually, differ with themselves
from one election to another
on how it should be inter-
preted. Anyway, the bulk of
Labor's electoral support
always comes from people who
don’t understand its policy and
don’t even ask whether it has
a policy, but merely vote for
it because it is Labor.
Socialism Still the Aim
Qf the party's losses at the
1955 election Chamberlain
said that in the short view and
in terms of seats in Parliament
the A.L.P. could feel sorry for
itself, but in the long view it
had much to be thankful for.
In his opinion the Labor party
did not come into existence
merely to win seats. That
should be secondary to the
task of formulating policy
based on the Socialist objec-
tive. Chamberlain clearly
hasn't changed his mind since
1955 on the necessity for
Socialism as the driving-force
of Labor. In his latest state-
ment, rejecting any thought of
reconciliation with the D.L.P.,
he stresses the need for Labor
to continue to function “as a
party of reform, based on the
principles of Socialism.”
The Federal president’s
philosophy must be very com-
forting to the A.L.P. men who
lost their seats at the last two
elections, though they may be
pardoned for wondering how
they will be able to hasten the
advent of Socialism by “orderly
and Constitutional means”
(their president's words) if
they are not in the Constitu-
tionally elected Parliament.
Some of them, of course, may
protest that they don’t want to
hasten the advent of Socialism,
whether by orderly, Consti-
tutional or any other means—
and that it is time the Federal
leadership and executive woke-
up to the fact that the people
of Australia don’t want it,
either.


• xsSg&m
{■Mutl
mm
a
ZL Pen tui tli th
WjaruJ(ous
14 carat C/oi
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
fitted with a genuine
14 carat gold nib.
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
fully guaranteed.
Every Conway Stewart Pen is
excellent value.
Ask your Retailer
he knows.
The No. 85L
42 7 6
The Conway Stewart
No. 15 at 29/6
No. 12 at 35/-
No. 76 at 60/-
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD. IQNDON
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copy of Oppenheimer’s The
Strange Case of Jocelyn Thew. —
6771.
Does Anybody Know?
Whereabouts of Prosper Ralston,
understood to be at present some-
where in Australia?
Information Sought
Recipe for peanut-butter ?
Place some shelled peanuts in a
shallow baking-dish in a moderate
oven and bake them a light brown.
Remove, roll out on to a cloth
and fold over, then rub lightly to
and fro to break-up the skins; fan
or blow the skins away—they are
bitter, and give the paste a sharp
flavor. Run the nut-meats through
a mincer and finally pulverise with
a rolling-pin or glass jar, making as
fine a crushing as possible. Place
in a saucepan, add enough olive-
oil to keep from burning, salt to
taste and cook to a smooth brown
mass. Stirring is necessary from
time to time. Butter may be used
instead of oil, when not so much
salt need be added. Pack into small
jars, cover with greaseproof-paper
and allow to cool before putting on
lids. For home use, make small
quantities at a time. There are
various methods, but this is the
handiest for the amateur. •
* # * *
Are there any links between Bach,
Mozart, Beethoven and Schubert ?
Yes. Mozart, born six years after
the death of J. S. Bach, was familiar
with that master’s work, playing
Bach compositions at sight at the
age of seven. In later life he was
associated with J. C. Bach, J. S.
Bach’s youngest son, who arranged
a series of London concerts for
Mozart. Beethoven, born 14 years
later than Mozart, undoubtedly
made the acquaintance of the works
of both Bach and Mozart in his
student days, and towards the end
of his career, when he was develop-
ing the fugal style, he must have
frequently referred to Bach’s monu-
mental works in that field. When
Beethoven went to Vienna as a
lad in 1787 he played before Mozart.
There is no evidence that Schubert
ever came under Bach’s influence.
It was not till the last year of his
life that he got hold of some scores
of Handel’s oratorios, and bewailed
his neglect to study counterpoint.
But as a student at the Imperial
Choir’s School in Vienna he took
part in performances of the over-
tures and symphonies of Mozart
and Beethoven, and to the end of
his days Beethoven was his musical
hero, though there is no trace of
such an influence in his highly
original music. Beethoven reputedly
held Schubert in high esteem as a
songwriter.
* * ' * *
Is it possible 1o circumnavigate
the earth while travelling in an
easterly direction all the way ?
The earth would be completely
circumnavigated on an eastern
course if the traveller started at, or
near, the Equator. He would then
roughly follow a great circle route,
and the total distance travelled
w'ould be 24,860 miles, or slightly
less, according to whether he was
on the Equator or a few degrees on
either side of it. If he travelled due
east from, say, London, the distance
covered would be only 15,500 miles,
and from Iceland less again. This
could not be considered as a com-
plete circumnavigation of the earth.
Early circumnavigators who started-
oif from Europe crossed the Equator
several times, and they therefore
circumnavigated the earth in the
true sense of the word.
* * * »
What is the difference between
foam and froth ?
Fowler’s Modern English Usage
has the following to say on the
subject: “The natural definition of
foam would be the froth of the
sea, and that of froth the foam of
beer. That is to say, foam suggests
the sea, froth suggests beer, and
while one word is appropriate to
the grand or the beautiful or the
violent, the other is appropriate to
the homely or the ordinary or the
dirty. One demands of foam that
ii be white; froth may be of what
color it pleases. Froth may be
scum, but foam, though it may
become scum, ceases to be foam in
the process. It is perhaps also
true that froth is thought of mainly
as part of a liquid that has sent
it to the top, and foam as a separate
substance otten detached, in the act
of making, from its source. But
the difference is much less in the
meaning than in the suitable
contexts.”
* * * *
Are sharks regarded as fishes ?
If not, how do they differ from
fishes ?
Though commonly regarded as
fishes, sharks are more properly
ranked with rays as a distinct class.
They differ from the majority of
fishes in that their bony structure
is wholly cartilaginous or incom-
pletely calcified; the vertebral
column is generally prolonged back-
ward into the upper portion of the
tailfin, instead of ending abruptly
in a broad fan-shaped bone. The
skin is covered with denticles, and
in some species provides the
“shagreen” of commerce. There is
no gill-cover, but five to seven slits
open on each side of the neck
from the gill-chamber. The nostrils
open downward; an opening of
varying size on the upper surface
behind the eye (the spiracle) serves
as a supplementary breathing-
organ.
* * * *
Recipe for old - style bush
damper ?
Make a good fire of clean wood
and let it burn through well, leav-
ing a glowing mass. Mix the
damper quickly when the fire is
ready and move smartly, as it is
spoilt and heavy if handled too
much or overmixed. Place some
self-raising flour —or plain flour into
which has been mixed one teaspoon
of baking-powder to every pound
—in a basin, add a pinch of salt to
each cup of flour, mix with a knife,
form a slight hole in the centre, and
pour in enough warmish water to
make a light, soft dough. Do not
stir too much; as soon as it forms
into one mass nicely, sprinkle a little
flour over it to handle easily, shape
into a rough loaf, scrape out, a
place in the hot ashes, put the
damper there and draw coals and
ashes over it. Cook for about
30min. Test by inserting a sharp,
clean twig or piece of clean wire;
if it comes away clean the damper
is cooked. If an uncooked damper
is removed too* soon it’s almost
impossible to complete its cooking
properly by putting it back. Only
experience will enable you to make
a good damper—measure carefully
and note the results, then stick to
the method which gives a good loaf.
Information Supplied
From “G.M.” (W.A.): The
inquirer (B. 12/11/’5B) who wants
to know why petrol-drums are
always of 44-gallon capacity might
find the following of interest,
especially as there is a “conclusive
explanation.”
The American standard barrel at
the beginning of the century was
(and still is) 50 American gallons,
approximately 190 litres, the gallon
being 3.785 litres. In those days in
Australia that barrel was known
only as a container for lubricants.
The British standard barrels were
either 42 or 50 Imperial gallons—
in metric conversion, 4.546 litres.
The term “44-gallon drum” was
a nominal title, and the barrel was
virtually a war-time emergency-
measure because (a) wooden barrels
were incapable of carrying petrol,
power-kerosenes or fuel-oils, and
(6) skilled labor, which developed
barrel-building, was not avail-
able to meet requirements. Great
skill was necessary to season the
planks. Today even machined
staves have their flaws.
Petrol and power-kerosenes were
commodities; two tins in a case
meant costly packaging and leakage
losses. So drums were built of sheet-
steel with a couple of crimps pressed
outwards on the bilge as rolling-
tracks; then, around 1920, the little
railway-track shrunk on to the
drum-bilges was introduced. Sizes
of drums were nominal, not
standard.
The big point is that the standard
American 50-gallon drum is reduced
by one-sixth to calculate Imperial
gallonage, and the adoption in the
1930’s of a standard 44-gallon barrel
was to embrace as wide a range of
drum-packed liquids as- possible.
The computing of gallonages is done
basically from weight, subject tp a
specific gravity and the existing,
temperature.
Brief Answers
J.N.: From the facts supplied,
you should have a case. See a
solicitor... .T.L.: The Rhine Castle
Bistro of Continental Cookery, 548,
Pitt Street, Sydney M. 8.: U/
The Barchester novels of Anthony


A unt May was saying, “Not
a dishful. Only this morn-
ing I was saying to Les that
there wouldn’t be a bite for the
horses at midday.”
I had heard Aunt May com-
plaining at breakfast-time that
the chaff-house was empty. She
kept her finger on the affairs
of the farm to the frequent dis-
comfiture of the boys. I could
tell that she was glad now to
have so genuine an excuse for
refusing Mrs. Griggs’s request.
“You wouldn’t work ’em on
emrty stummicks, love!”
Mrs. Griggs was shocked.
Aunt May was equally
shocked at the implication. “Of
course not. Les will just have
to go to Barrow’s down the
road and get a few bags before
he has lunch, that’s all.”
“Lord love you, duck! I'll
get you some chaff. You show
me the way to Barrer’s, Jim.”
Mrs. Griggs picked up her
billy of tea.
My aunt opened her mouth
to object, but Mrs. Griggs held
up her hand and said quickly,
“Not a word, love. I know
what you’re going to say, but
it won't be a bit too much
trouble at all. Not a bit.”
Aunt May tried again and
got as far as “But . . when
Mrs. Griggs again stopped her.
“No, no, love. I won’t have
you thank me. It’s little enough
to do after you’ve bin so good
to me. I'll git you a few bags
and take one for meself. Jim’ll
come with me so Barrer’s’ll
know it's all right. It won’t
be a bit of trouble, love. Not
a bit.”
The prospect of giving away
a whole bag of chaff seemed to
leave my aunt speechless. She
was not a mean woman, but
she was careful.
“We’ll g : t along then, love,”
Mrs. Griggs said. “There’ll be
eight shillings for them two
bread-tins, duck. I don’t want
nothing for that baking-dish,
though, mind. I brought you
that for a present, love.”
J°y, though. The river. And
ae r ocks. And the dog.”
The man sounded regretful
"almost as if, in spite of the
car , the Moorish-type mansion
! n right suburb, and the
andsome directorial chairs in
ait - a - dozen luxuriously
Ppointed boardrooms, he
en vied the boy.
They eat echidnas,” said the
J°man, shuddering. “And . . .
Vv . , awful loneliness. No
t>rw?^ e u • tlle yTe slow-witted,
things.”
m»?°ln! ow ' witted ” said the
• Bit inarticulate.”
dovvn V ar swam smoothly
it tl , fountain road. When
lUrned into the main road
once again, it wove in and out
of the long line of traffic like
a white whale in a shoal of
porpoises.
T ater, another car joined the
city-bound traffic-stream ;
in the back sat the boy, tired
now, disgruntled and bored.
He hoped there would be a
good western on TV, and he
wished he were a film-hero—
film-heroes didn’t have their
adventures disrupted by being
dragged home in the middle of
them by their Mums and
Auntie Ednas; he wondered
where the dog had got to, and
thought how good it would be
to live that kind of dog’s life
—to be free to roam the gorge
all day, to hunt there all night,
never collared and chained like
a city pooch.
Not far behind, a third car
swung into the traffic from the
mountain road. The dog
revolved restlessly, trying to
hollow a lying-hole in the
scarlet-leather upholstery of
the back, seat ; at length rt
flopped down, only to rear its
head immediately to scratch
the tightly clamped collar with
its hind-leg.
Its master remarked: “No
good scratching you’ll wear
that collar tight, and like it!
You’re not getting another
chance to slip it like you did
this afternoon.”
Its mistress leaned over and
stroked the huge head.
“Perhaps it’s not the colla--,
darling,” she murmured.
“Diddums pick up a nasty flea
while you were lost in that
horrid o!d gorge, Petsy-wetsy-
wups?”
Trollope (1815-82) comprise, in
chronological order, The Warden
(1855), Barchester Towers (1857),
Dr. Thorne (1858), Framley Par-
sonage (1864), The Small House at
Allington (1864), and The Last
Chronicle of Barset (1867). (2) Not
connected... .X.Y.Z.: Can find no
record at all of Paterson’s writing
or producing any such opera....
H.V.S.: Supplies are available from
all wool-houses. As to your ques-
tion regarding the treatment of bull-
calves, many people are following
it successfully. Suggest you write
to Elastrator (Australia) Pty., Ltd.,
st. James Building, 125 William
street, Melbourne.... D.M.0.:
There is a fine assortment of ship-
lovers’ societies in Australia, but
nothing jn the way of a compass
society. The Society for Nautical
Research, National Maritime
Museum, Greenwich, S.E. 10,
London, may b'e able to throw
some light on the subject....
u.D.: if y our rector has no objec-
lo"s to the introduction of
athedral-type music, by all means
go ahead. Among the settings of
the morning service are Smart in
F Major, Stanford in B Flat, and
Vaughan Williams in G Major. For
evening-service settings, the follow-
ing are recommended (subject to
the size and capability of your
choir): Wood in D, Stanford in C,
Walmisley in D Minor, Noble in B
Minor and, for treble voices alone,
Long in F. Select, say, three set-
tings for morning and evening and
rotate them, i.e, a different one
each Sunday, with the original one
every third Sunday. Write to
Chappell and Co., Ltd., 250 Pitt
Street, Sydney, for a comprehensive
list of such music. .. .L.H.H.:
Hypnosis is as yet too imperfectly
understood to be of any real value
for such a condition; it has been
found to be helpful in afflictions
only where imagination plays some
part. A migraine or hemicrania
sufferer should rest quietly when
an attack is imminent, and rely on
palliatives prescribed by his own
doctor. Frequency of attacks is
said to become less with age.
THE HOLLIDAYS
BY MIDDY
“About that omelette my husband ordered—may I offer you a few suggestions ?”


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
For a long time now weatherman
Lennox Walker has been promising
N.S.W. a wet December and, sure
enough, on the last day of a dry Novem-
ber the first drops fell, ushering-in a
week that was grey, wet and a little
windy. Still, the city and its parks were
refreshed and, in the outer suburbs, the
threat of bushfires was temporarily
relieved.
Summer flowers blossomed on dresses
and hats, however, in the A.B.C.'s airy 7
studio at King’s Cross, where the presi-
dent of the Sydney Symphony Orchestral
Committee, Lady Lloyd Jones, wearing
an icing-pink suit and flowered white
hat, received the guests at a Christmas-
party for the orchestra. Lady Plowman
added very elegant, very long chartreuse
gloves to her dark florals ; Lady Heinze
chose a rose-printed silk; and Miss
Beatrice Tange a dark, flowered silk.
Mrs. Bruce Macfarlan wore rose-printed
shoes and a hat of full-blown roses, with
a harem-skirted dress of dull-green silk ;
soft greys were the choice of Mrs. A. H.
Charteris, the honorary secretary.
Around the official table were Dr. and
Mrs. Nicolai Malko (silver coffee-spoons
were presented from the committee to
the resident conductor), Sir Richard
Boyer (A.B.C. chairman), and Lady
Boyer, Mr. and Mrs. R. G. Lowndes,
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Moses and Mr.
and Mrs. R. Heffron. Lady Slim,
patroness of the orchestra, arrived at
6 p.m. (attended by Lieut. G. Halley)
for the ceremony of cutting the cake.
* * ☆
Busy hostesses might note the
vermouth plus fruit-cup plus soda
hastily assembled into a welcome
“Christmas fizz” by Mrs. Joanne Sinclair
when the supplies of cinzano and
hors d’ceuvres were threatened by the
arrival of twice the number of expected
guests at the opening, by the Ambassador
for France, M. Renaud Sivan, of the Red
Cross photographic exhibition at Kodak
House.
Axel Poignant’s portrait of Mrs. Persia
Porter in her uniform as honorary
director of Red Cross V.A.D. was set
high on a board showing V.A.’s train-
ing in first-aid and marching, and Kerry
Dundas had several flood-relief pictures,
including one of what at first appeared
to be a sandy beach after the tide had
gone out, but which was actually a
farm after the flood waters had receded.
The bulk of the exhibition was the work
of David Franklin —child-studies illus-
trating Junior Red Cross homes Eleanor
Mackinnon Memorial (Cronulla) and
Berida (Bowral) and the Blood Trans-
fusion Service ; and striking studies of
the aged illustrating Bodington (Went-
worth Falls), the Lady Gowrie Home
(Gordon) and Graythwaite, the home for
.World War I veterans on the western
slope of Flagstaff Hill, North Sydney.
Set among old palm-trees, this old stone
house with third-story attic windows
looks across the Harbor to Observatory
Hill ; it has always been the particular
interest of Mrs. Eva Hordern, who,
though no longer able to take an active
part in its affairs, still visits the patients.
Mrs. C. D. Candy and her husband,
Air-Vice-Marshal Candy, A.O.C. Home
Command, assisted mess-president Group-
Captain R. Dalkin and Mrs. Dalkin to
receive the guests at the annual Christmas
ball at R.A.A.F. Home Command Head-
quarters, Glenbrook. This particular
h.-q. must be one of the loveliest in
Australia, looking out as it does from the
lower mountains across Penrith and to
Sydney beyond, and, if you couldn’t see
the view on the night of the ball, you
could see the gardens and trees decorated
with colored lights for the evening. Those
present included Brigadier A. E. Morgan
(who is in charge of administration at
Eastern Command) and Mrs. Morgan,
Group-Captain L. R. Trudinger and Mrs.
Trudinger, Group-Captain H. H. Smith
and Mrs. Smith, Group-Captain J. W.
Reddrop and Mrs. Reddrop, and Wing-
Commander A. J. Abicair and daughter
Shirley.
Tuesday was another grey day of
muddy streets and shining, wet auto-
mobiles snaking bumber -to - bumper
through the pre-Christmas city crowds
Out at the Royal Blind Society’s build-
ing in William Street Mr. Justice
Maxwell, patron of the Braille Writers’
Association of N.S.W., addressed
a meeting and thanked all the voluntary
workers, especially those who regularly
drive the teachers to the homes of the
blind.
The president of the association, Mrs.
H. G. Ringland, in a turquoise-blue
ensemble, received the guests and Braille
Writers’ Certificates were presented to
Mrs. Dorothy Astle, Mrs. E. Ohye, Mrs.
M. Pringle and Mrs. Isobel Warden.
Mrs. Astle, a grandmother to seven,
devotes about 15 hours a week at home
to the work, which takes about a year
to learn. Tuition is individual, not in
classes, and pupils assist Mr. Ken Morris,
editor of the “Boomerang” magazine,
by putting into braille selected articles
from Australian and overseas publica-
tions, including London “Punch” and
“Argosy,” The Bulletin, “The Austra-
lian Woman’s Mirror” and “The A.B.C.
Weekly.”
One of the guests at the meeting was
committee-member and teacher Miss F.
Cohen, who was headmistress of Fort
Street Girls’ High School from 1932 (the
year of the opening of the Harbor
Bridge) until her retirement in 1951. The
school’s main building was the colony’s
first military hospital, and the site,
Observatory Hill, was chosen as being
removed from the hurly-burly of the
traffic. The long carriage - drive and
graceful wrought-iron fountain were re-
moved 30 years ago to make way for
the city-side approaches to the Bridge,
which now has 18 traffic-lanes at the toll-
gates.
☆ ☆ ☆
Wednesday was, in the words of a
popular current song, “the day that the
rains came down” —suburban gutters and
bushland gullies emptied sand and yellow
clay in torrents into the Harbor, turning
the blue to brown for many yards off
the shore, but before the day was over
the sun was out again, glinting on newly
washed leaves and stones and pavements
—a Sydney summer pattern, to be re-
peated the following day.
Schoolboys and schoolgirls were the
speakers at the Royal Commonwealth
Society’s rooms in Bligh Street on
Wednesday night for the final judging
of the Schools’ Public Speaking Competi-
tion. Originally there were 235 entrants
from 30 secondary schools in Sydney
, and these had been narrowed down to
a handful. The adjudicators w r ere Miss
Sheila Jones, of the Mosman Debating
Society, Mr. Don Scott, president of the
N. Debating Societies’ Union, and
Sergeants Len Chalmers and Charles
Crittle, of the Police Debating Society.
The Royal Empire Society had a familiar
ring that the Royal Commonwealth
Society has yet to achieve, but the word
“Empire” is gone, and there it is. Still,
the boys and girls spoke with wonderful
earnestness on our British Common-
wealth of Nations and there was no
doubting their emphatic allegiance to
Crown and country.
AELBOURNE
Queen’s Hall, Parliament House, was
the setting for the reception for 400 guests
given in honor of Mr. John G. Dieferu
baker, Canadian Prime Minister, and his
wife by the Government of Victoria. The
Premier and Mrs. Bolte received the
guests-of-honor, Mrs. Bolte wearing a


sheath-frock of dark-pine-green silk-
shantung and a small white blossom-cap
mounted on green velvet. Mrs. Diefen-
baker’s choice was a full-skirted frock
of delphinium-blue chiffon with matching
lace on the bodice; her small head-
hugging cap was of matching chiffon.
Mrs. A. G. Rylah’s bright-blue satin
frock featured a shawl-collar embroidered
with darker-blue beads; her tiny cap
matched her frock. Mrs. Murray Porter
(wife of the Minister for Forests) wore
a slim black frock on Empire-lines, a
large black-velvet bow set high on the
bodice; her lovely hat was of white
organza petals. A lightweight wool suit
in leaf-green was chosen by Mrs. J. S.
Bloomfield (wife of the Minister for
Education), with a small cap in tones of
green, brown and beige.
Lady Leggatt (wife of Sir William
Leggatt, Victoria’s Agent-General in
London; they are home on holiday)
chose a jacket-and-dress ensemble in
moss-green lace with a hat in shades of
beige and brown. Mrs. W. K. Burnside
wore a frock of leaf-green lace with a
wide panel set into the back of the skirt;
her small hat was a froth of matching
veiling. Mrs. Maurice Nathan’s exotic
hat of white marabou was exactly right
for her slim sheath-frock of rose-
patterned white silk. Noted also were Sir
Harry and Lady Winnecke, University
Chancellor Mr. Justice Dean and Mrs.
Dean, Sir Charles and Lady Lowe, Mr.
Justice O’Bryan and Mrs. O’Bryan, Mr.
Justice Monahan and Mrs. Monahan,
Dr. and Mrs. John Lindell, Mr. and Mrs.
Angus Jones, Mr. Edgar Brownhill, and
Mr. and Mrs. A. T. Smithers.
A former Sydney journalist, Mrs. John
Read worked during the war with the
Netherlands Government Information
S erv ice, doing pictorial propaganda, and
also with American Associated Press.
After the war Mrs. Read joined Red
Cross's public-relations department. Now
sh e is information-officer in the fibres
division of I.C.I. Married, with two small
chidren, Mrs . Read relaxes with reading
and music. Photo by John Warlow.
Top marks this week go to Mrs. John
G. Diefenbaker, wife of Canada’s Prime
Minister, and to Mrs. Henry Bolte, wife
of Victoria’s Premier, for the brevity of
the speeches they made at a very pleasant
and informal luncheon at Parliament
House. The guest-of-honor, who arrived
at the House with Mrs. T. W. L. Mac-
Dermot, wife of the Canadian High
Commissioner, looked delightful in a
simple frock of buttercup hail-spot
muslin. In her hair she wore a circlet
of white stephanotis and seed-pearls
misted with soft-green veiling. A bronze-
and-black-striped silk frock and a cap of
brown and white was chosen by Mrs.
Mac Dermot. Mrs. Bolte’s slim-cut frock
of Wedgwood-blue and white patterned-
silk was worn with a large emerald-green
straw hat. Mrs. A. G. Rylah, who
assisted Mrs. Bolte receive the guests,
chose a silk frock patterned in green
and a cap of pink blossom.
☆ ☆ ☆
St. John’s Church, Toorak, was the
setting for the marriage of Margaret
Gowan, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Kenneth G. Begg, of Toorak and Port-
sea, with John Edward, youngest son of
Mr. and Mrs. L. B. Robinson, of Hamp-
shire, England. Panels of French
embroidered daisies and satin trimmed
each side of the bride’s bouffant gown
of white Terylene, which was made with
short sleeves and a long train. A lover’s-
knot headdress of white satin held her
short, circular veil, and she carried a
bouquet of white peonies. Avocado-
green sashes highlighted the waists of the
white cotton-shantung frocks worn by
bridesmaids Sally Manifold, Noel Drys-
dale and Sarah Gilder. Best man was
Timothy Emanuel, and groomsmen were
Michael Begg (the bride’s brother) and
Conway Seymour. Reception was at the
Hotel Australia.
☆ ☆
The American Women’s Auxiliary to
the Royal Children’s Hospital held its
last meeting at the centre before going
into recess until early March. The meet-
ing concluded with a very happy session
of Christmas carols sung round the piano
to the accompaniment of Mrs. George
Ecklund, one of the members. The
recently elected president, Mrs. A.
Klestadt, was in the chair, and among
the members present were Mrs. William
Braun (her husband is the new U.S.
information-officer—he is at present in the
Antarctic), Mrs. C. W. McKay, Mrs. Mel
Saunders, Mrs. Tom Blarney, Mrs. Heath-
cote Wright, Mrs. Mark Clements, Mrs.
Robert Cheney, Mrs. Graham Hall and
Mrs. Collas Harris (who read the story
“How Come Christmas,” written by a
North Carolina author, Roark Bradford).
v v #
With the marriage of Mrs. Estelle Dare
the well-known firm of Stell-Ricks has
gone out of existence. For the wedding,
at Temple Beth Israel, St. Kilda, to
barrister Bernard Gordon Griff, Mrs.
Dare wore a most becoming beige-chiffon
frock with a draped Empire-line and a
large picture-hat in matching tulle. After
a honeymoon at Surfers’ Paradise the
couple will make their home in Adelaide.
CANBERRA
Making history as the first Canadian
Prime Minister to visit Australia,
Mr. John G. Diefenbaker, with
Mrs. Diefenbaker, arrived in the
capital for the start of their five-
day Australian tour. Mrs. Diefen-
baker wore an attractive white frock and
matching small-flowered hat when she
and her husband were greeted at the air-
port by Prime Minister Menzies and
Dame Pattie and by the High Commis-
sioner for Canada and Mrs. T. W. L.
MRS. J. G. DIEFENBAKER
Mac Dermot. Following their arrival they
were welcomed by the Governor-General
and Lady Slim at Government House,
where they and some members of their
party were house-guests for their two-day
stay.
The High Commissioner for Canada
and Mrs. Mac Dermot welcomed 4QO
guests at a champagne-reception given
at the Hotel Canberra to introduce Mr.
and Mrs. Diefenbaker. The guests-of-
honor, who had earlier attended a wreath-
laying ceremony at the Australian War
Memorial, were delighted with their first
impressions of Australia.
The Prime Minister and Dame Pattie
Menzies were there; Sir Alistair and
Lady McMullin ; Mr. and Mrs. J.
Macleay ; Mr. and Mrs. R. G. Casey ;
Mr. Harold Holt with Mrs. Holt; Lady
Carrington, who wore an elegant suit in
midnight-blue and black brocade and
small black hat; the Japanese Ambassa-
dor and Mrs. Suzuki ; the French Am-
bassador and Mme. Sivan ; the American
Ambassador and Mrs. Sebald ; and the
Netherlands Ambassador and Mrs.
Lovink, she looking smart in gold-toned
brocade.
After the reception a number of guests
went on to a formal dinner at Govern-
ment House given by the Governor-
General and Lady Slim in honor of the
Canadian visitors.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT- OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WALLACE REX McGUFFICKE late
of Jindabvne in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that THELMA
MAY McGUFFICKE has filed a Petition
in Divorce No. 3817 of 1958 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by the 17th February 1959 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. GILL, OXLADE «
BROAD, Solicitors, 11c Castlereagh
Street, Sydney as town agents fo>
MESSRS. JOHN 11. YELDHAM «
SPAIN, Solicitors, 137 Pacific Highway.
North Sydney, Solicitors for the Pet l '
tioner.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
sundry by raucously chanting:
“I'm not going to set the world
on fire!”
The last ditty you’d expect
from a three-tour bomb-aimer.
Then there were the two
Wellington sergeant-pilots
who, after a European tour,
were put aboard the late
Ceramic, which was bound for
Australia.
At Durban these fellows
were informed that they were
not bound for Australia, but
for North Africa. They
decided to proceed to Aus-
tralia whatever, and to have
a couple of weeks with their
respective families, and then
go to North Africa.
They achieved this in a
manner worthy of Houdini.
After a couple of weeks at
home the resourceful pair
reported to Melbourne em-
barkation depot and were
returned to Africa for court-
martial. The court-martial fell
to bits on a technicality, and
the travellers were posted to
458 as first and second pilots
on the same Wellington.
One of their unbriefed efforts
on 458 was to trundle their
Wellington up and down low
over a tank-battle, jamming the
Jerry tanks’ radio. For this
the skipper got a “mention.”
His mate is still hale and hearty
in Queensland.
Another stunt that called
for an attitude of gay
abandon was the “pick-up.”
Bob Gibbes (then C.O. Aus-
tralian 3 Squadron) pulled this
off. It meant landing a
single-seater fighter to pick up
a pilot grounded near a
strafed and angry German
aerodrome.
It called for rare patience,
too. Gibbes had to tap his
foot idly for half-an-hour wait-
ing for his man to reach him,
while three of his planes still
in the air held back the pursuit.
Then it was simply a matter of
“Jump on my lap and off we
go!”
Tmpossible in an article to do
■*- more than pick out a
typical airborne eccentric here
and there.
One comes to mind back in
Australia on Test Flight. He
was a much-decorated Mos-
quito intruder-pilot. Noticed
him several times squatting
with his back against a hangar,
enjoying the winter sunshine.
He’d have a saucer of milk
and an iron bar—killing cats.
This bloke told on one
occasion in England that he'd
been doing too much flying,
and was ordered on leave.
He immediately hied him-
self to another drome,
borrowed a Mosquito and
took-off on an unauthorised
flight into Germany. There he
knocked down three Ju. 88s. as
they came in for night landings.
Back in England he was
given a severe reprimand for
this —and another gong.
After the war he went back
to his farm and was killed
driving a truck.
Another type who can
certainly come in here was a
flight-lt. navigator grounded
because of ulcers.
He had a large family and
very little money. He used to
pick-up a quid or two through
strange wagers.
One night he won a bet by
consuming 21b. of prawns—
shells, heads and all—within
the prescribed time-limit.
Noteworthy about this
fellow was his complete lack
of self-consciousness during
these trials.
T'ame to Test Flight one day
a type fresh from the
Middle East, where he’d spent
a lot of productive hours on
Kittyhawk fighters—but only
on Kitties.
“What can you fly?” asked
the flight-commander.
“Oh, just about anything.”
“There’s a Ventura ready
for test. Feel like doing it?”
“Sure.”
“O.K. Get yourself an
observer and beat it.”
(The Ventura was a fairly
fast twin-engined Lockheed
bomber, quite a big lump of
a kite.)
We’ll call this bloke Elson.
In the big cockpit Elson
studied the strange array of
dials and switches while the
observer studied Elson. The
observer had survived a couple
of years on war-time test-work
and had little trust in pilots,
especially new ones.
But Elson got things sorted
out, and took the plunge.
This was a war-loan day,
and all available aircraft from
the dromes around Sydney
were formating over the city.
Five of us from Test were up
in Spitfires. On our return we
took it upon ourselves to dive
in line-astern on the home
drome, then attack it collec-
tively and individually. Our
arrival coincided with Elson’s
return with his unwieldy
charge.
Seeing Spits, going straight
up, straight down, and rolling
along the deck, Elson said to
his observer: “I wish this was
a Kitty, but it’ll have to do.”
So Elson’s Ventura joined-in
—steep-turning with bottom
wing-tip just about touching
its shadow, jinking among the
hangars, blasting gravel off the
parade - ground, missing
obstacles high and low by
inches, and raising outsize
gooseflesh on all hands —in the
air and on the ground.
Elson simply assumed for
the occasion that what he had
was a wasp-sized fighter, and
handled it accordingly.
A masterly performance. At
least one Spit, landed with its
head bowed in shame.
Elson was enterprising in
more ways than one. Some
time later three fiancees
attended his funeral.
"Drian (“Blackjack”) Walker
was testing for de Havil-
land’s on this drome.
Late one afternoon all hands,
including Walker, were enjoy-
ing a pre-prandial pot in the
mess when an American began
beating-up the place with a
Thunderbolt fighter.
Walker dumped a half-
emptied pot on the bar and
jeeped to the nearest Spit.
Mk. 8. When the American
made his next “low pass”
Walker barrel-rolled around
him.
Muttering on the r/t some-
thing like, “Why don’t yuh pick
on someone yuh own size?”
the American went home.
Walker’s beer still had plenty
of froth on it when he returned
to finish it.
A human, or humane, note
on the test-unit:
My wife phoned one night
from a Sydney suburb with
the news that the expected heir
was knocking on the door. The
R.A.A.F. doc. said, “Stay here
—there you’ll be in the way.”
“If it’s the first one,” said the
C. 0., “go home. Take a week
off.”
A week later I returned to
the unit in the late afternoon
and my florin was rejected.
“Free keg,” said the steward.
“Nine gallons.”
When the doc. and C.O.
came in I said, “Someone’s put-
up a keg—don’t miss this!”
They didn’t. In fact, one
and all made pretty free with
the free keg.
Thirst assuaged, and idly
curious, I asked Darby, the
steward, “Who’s been pro-
moted or posted or got a
gong? Whose is the keg?”
“Yours,” said Darby. “The
Boss said don’t let him get the
idea he gets a son and a week’s
leave for nothing. When he
comes back bung it on.”
It will be grim indeed when
the “Boss” becomes a switch-
board or a row of buttons.
'"Talking of switchboards—
A there was a test-bloke
called Mac at Amberley, near
Ipswich in Queensland, who,
in his many idle moments,
amused himself by phoning a
certain Waaaf on the aero-
drome switchboard.
It may have been some sort
of code, but Mac’s end of the
confab went like this:
“Is that the switch-bitch?
Get me the Ipswich switch-
bitch, switch-bitch.”
One day Mac lost track of
his Waaaf s times on duty, and
rattled-off his piece into the
shell-pink ear of the wrong girl.
“Can you say that again?”
said this girl, and switched Mac
onto the group-captain’s phone.
G/c was unfavorably aston-
ished.
Mac regained his normal
complexion some hours later.
At Amberley also was the
z M.O. who liked to do the
flying on a trip.
This medico expressed a wish
to visit his son at a Raaf
training-school at Kingaroy,
north-west from Amberley.
Two of us were asked to
take him, and were given an
ancient Anson which had .been
sunbaking on the field for
months. The doc.’s hands were
itching for the helm after take-
off.
“D’you know the way to
Kingaroy, Doc.?”
“Certainly I do!”
Friend and I settled down
aft to read magazines and
snooze.
We landed on the N.S.W.
coast at Evans Head —south-
east instead of north-west.
The doc.’s First War M.C
softened things a bit for him
—but we never lived it down.


john McDouall stuart
By Mona Stuart Webster
A full-length biography is at last avail-
able of the great explorer who was the
first to cross Australia from south to
north. This epic story of his six expedi-
tions is based mainly on Stuart’s own note-
books. It is well-illustrated with maps
Demy Bvo, full cloth, pp. xii, 320,19
plates, 14 maps.
425.
MEN WERE MY MILESTONES
By A. R. Chisholm
This graceful collection of “Portraits and
Sketches” is of men who have impressed
the author most deeply. Included are
Christopher Brennan, Randolph Hughes,
Sir Errol Knox and many other well-
known names. “Humane and humourous
. . . it is a likeable, shrewd, tolerant book.”
— Bulletin.
Demy Bvo, full cloth, pp. viii, 146.
275. 6d.
Obtainable from all booksellers and from
MELBOURNE UNIVERSITY PRESS,
Carlton, N. 3, and 369 Lonsdale St., Melbourne, C.l, Vic.
put the boat in they again came to
oppose us upon which I fired a
musket between the two which had
no other effect than to make them
retire back where bundles of thier
darts lay, and one of them took up
a stone and threw at us which caused
my fireing a second Musquet load
with small Shott, and altho some of-
the shott struck the man yet it had
no other effect than to make him lay
hold of a Shield or target to defend
himself.
Then there was that “very extra-
ordinary affair” which “happend to
Mr. Orton my Clerk” on the way up
the Queensland coast, when some
malicious persons took advantage of his
being drunk not merely to cut all the
clothes off his back but “some time
after went into his Cabbin and cut off
a part of both his Ears as he lay asleep
in his bed” ... It does not seem quite
clear whether this was merely a
“drunken frolic” or a more serious act
of revenge, connected with a threat of
murder one of the crew had been heard
to utter. But of course the “human
touch” that, whether it. is well known
or not, every Australian reviewer of the
journals must quote is Cook’s rare and
extremely sensible appreciation of the
aborigines in his summing-up;—
From what I have said of the
Natives of New-Holland. they may
appear to some to be the most
wretched people upon Earth, but in
reality they are far more happier than
we Europeans ; being wholly unac-
quainted not only with the superflu-
ous but the necessary Conveniences
so much sought after in Europe, they
are happy in not knowing the use of
them. They live in a Tranquility
which is not disturb’d by the
Inequality of Condition: the Earth
and sea of their own accord furnishes
them with all things necessary for
life, they covet not Magnificent
Houses, Household-stuff etc, they live
in a warm and fine Climate and enjoy
a very wholsome Air, so that they
have very little need of Clothing....
In short they seem’d to set no Value
upon any thing we gave them.
. Dr ; Price rightly says that it is fas-
cinating to trace in the journals the
growth of Cook’s understanding of
anthropology, as well as the develop-
ment of his style; but, as he also points
°ut, it is obvious that when he first
touched Australia Cook was already
pretty well equipped as an alert and
humane observer.
Pearl-port Novel
. Tom Ronan’s new novel. The Feari-
ng Master (Cassell), is something of a
nne pearl in a weatherbeaten shell. It
ls an acute study of a weak man who
gets control of a rising market and
cannot keep it when the market falls.
Alfred is a young Englishman, a clerk
in the office of a pearling company in
a Westralian pearling port. When the
bishop’s niece had come out to stay
with her brother, who had married a
grazier’s daughter, and found him dead,
Alfred was the only eligible husband
for her.
A couple of tough pearlers wanted
her, but Alfred got her, and with her
courage and strength backing his
natural gift for intrigue and chicanery
he grew into control of the pearling
company and its agencies. He used a
new bank-manager to close-out one of
his tough rivals from the pearling
industry, and during World War I he
got the manager of a sheep-station he
administered to compromise himself
with the shearers by saying that the
wool was urgently needed for front-line
soldiers when its real destination was
Japan—this enabled him, the manager
resigning in disgust, to replace him with
a relative of the helpful bank-manager.
Alfred’s son grows-up a weakling,
and runs around with the daughter of
a rubbish- and nightcart-contractor, a
Victorian farmer gassed in the war and
forced into North Australia for his
health. But at the same time the young
man is affianced to the station-heiress
daughter of Mrs. Alfred’s dead brother.
The nightcart-contractor’s daughter is
coming into town, after her father’s
death, with a bottle of sulphuric-acid,
when she meets the son and the station-
heiress; thinking they are laughing at
her, she throws the acid at the young
man. He steps behind the heiress and
she is so disfigured that, later on, the
young man eagerly accepts her offer to
end the engagement.
Meanwhile, Alfred has struck hard
times and, having got rid of the strong
men who were able to bully his fleet
and the sound men who had bossed his
business, he gets further and further into
the soup, falsifying books and selling
his wife’s pearl necklace.
Because of the story that his son hid
behind a woman, the Japanese won’t
obey him on the luggers. Alfred goes
bankrupt, and the last scenes are of
Alfred’s wife almost penniless in Perth
with a half-cracked husband to look
after, and of the nightcart-man’s
daughter, back from prison in her
father’s place at the pearling port,
waiting for Alfred’s son, who had
married her to keep out of the war, to
come home to her.
It’s a rude, rough, crude desert of a
book by an author content to have his
characters live without grace and fail
without humor. It leaves the impres-
sion of a true picture seen through a
glass of grim sanity —and it must be
the first serious novel in which a night-
cart-operator has been among the
leading characters.
SUCH EARLY HILLS
Such early hills, the snow-gum tree
Sucks its spare blossom from the stone,
From stone the everlasting daisy
Looks back in silence at the moon,
While in the flowering tree a bird
Meditates upon some human
Theme as if burdened with the Word
And you, my dear, were the first woman !
Bird, tree and hill with scattered coins
Of flowers are in my embrace
When l hold you and from our loins
The river leaps while in your face
Thrown back as if to take the sun
Shines the first wonder of the dawn.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
Fuchs in Antarctica
Like Sir John Hunt’s “The Ascent
of Everest,” The Crossing of Antarctica
(Cassell), by Sir Vivian Fuchs and Sir
Edmund Hillary this galaxy of
adventurous knights really is giving an
Elizabethan touch to the age!—is
essentially the official Book-of-the-
Expedition; and it has the advantages
and disadvantages of any official
record.
Hillary’s contribution to it, never
clearly stated in the table-of-contents
and rather confusingly indicated in the
course of the book, is limited to five
chapters describing the activities of the
New Zealand party, culminating in his


own dash to the Pole, so that the bulk
of the book is Fuchs’s.
Fuchs has to cope with an immense
and complicated task, for the expedi-
tion was large in numbers, it was two
years in the Antarctic and it was spread
all over that large and complicated
continent.
From one point of view, as an
official record of this tremendous
achievement, the book will give a great
deal of satisfaction; and, of course, of
excitement.
It is everywhere crammed with
adventure: the time when Captain
Maro of the Theron had to ram the
ship backwards against the ice to
straighten the rudder so that he could
get them moving again and avoid being
trapped as Shackleton was; the gale
that sank their stores amidst the ice
and forced them to jump for safety
onto the moving ship as the captain
manoeuvred it past them; the blizzards
of March that dashed at them “like a
horizontal waterfall”; the time the
Otter hit the top of the Touchdown
Hills at 110 knots; the time the Auster
played leapfrog over the ridges and
finished-up losing its tail in the snow,
and the time the same plane ran out
of petrol, on a flight to rescue a sick
man, and crash-landed on the ice, to
be out for 12 days; the time when
Fuchs, like Corrigan crossing the
Atlantic, found himself going the wrong
way—only Fuchs, confused in a “white-
out,” was really doing it, heading back
to the Pole instead of on to Scott Base;
the difficulty of driving the Sno-cats
over the crevasses (“That morning we
had moved 50 yards forward —in the
evening 100 yards back!”) and the
continuous danger:—
Clearly, with three near-catas-
trophes in 300 yards, it was time
to extricate ourselves from the area.
It is a most valuable record; and, in
many ways, fascinating reading. Yet
on the whole the book is disappointing.
One reason for that is, of course,
that any modern venture into the
Antarctic, after the heroic days of
Scott and Shack leton, is almost bound
to be an anticlimax. As a place for
literature and adventure the continent
has become overpopulated, overpubli-
cised and overmechanised. Nothing
else can be expected. Science and
imperialism are moving in and must
obviously use modern methods of
communication and transport. Yet—
and however ardupus his journey was—
it does indeed strike the mind as an
anticlimax to watch Hillary rolling-in
to the Pole on a tractor and finding,
instead of the grey waste Scott
encountered, the comfortable huts of
the Americans; and Fuchs’s arrival a
few weeks later with all the flags flying
on his train of armored vehicles —
hauling 5200 gallons of petrol, half a
ton of lubricants, one-and-a-half tons
of tools and spare-parts and nine tons
of explosives, paraffin, camping-gear
and food —looks like a military inva-
sion.
It must be admitted, too, that the
misadventures of the mechanical trans-
port, formidable though their task was,
tend to become monotonous. It is a
story of falling into one hole, climbing
out again and falling into the next;
stopping for repairs; and off again to
fall into another hole . . .
But the real trouble with the book
is not mechanisation —which makes a
new story in polar exploration and
has its own dogged interest —but in the
fundamental plan of it, as the official
Book-of-the-Expedition. Once a writer
adopts that principle, personal force
and flavor inevitably drop out of the
story.
Fuchs is so “official,” so guarded,
that the reader of this book would have
no idea whether the famous “quarrel”
between Fuchs and Hillary, which he
covers in bare statements in two pages,
was all a newspaper invention or not.
One can understand Fuchs’s reticence
here, yet the episode belongs to history,
and obviously there must have been
some sort of explanation, when Hillary
flew back to the Pole, which Fuchs is
unwilling to record.
That is only one small incident; and
one which, since Fuchs continued
across the continent and Hillary met
him again at Depot 700 to guide him on
to Scott Base as originally planned, was
of no real significance in the history
of the expedition. But that same sort
of official tone, carried throughout the
book, does considerably reduce its
impact. Too much of it is told at
second-hand; too much of it is repeti-
tive. It lacks the immediacy of a diary,
yet is too near the events it covers to
gain the freedom and selectivity of a
history.
MAN
Then, from all the creatures
their speech went
and settled in one mouth.
And from all their
bodies a likeness
drawn silently to a centre
became fused. All that was
separate flew
together and all melted
into one hairless,
naked bewilderment —*
Man, who said
I and stood
amazed. He said again
I, and shuddered. I.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.
Will Og ilvie
The best way to present Will Ogilvie
at this date would probably be in a
Selected Ballads —something that was
attempted a few years ago in “Saddle
For a Throne,” but not altogether
satisfactorily. What is needed is the
best of him, and only the best, in one
volume.
Angus and Robertson have not quite
achieved this by reprinting, as they have
lately done, Fair Girls and Gray
Horses; but there will remain a con-
siderable nostalgic appeal for many
readers in seeing the famous book
reprinted without alteration, and it is
a fact that a great many of Ogilvie’s
best ballads were crammed into this
book.
First published by “The Bulletin” in
1898, it was the book by which he made
his reputation, and it includes “How
the Fire Queen Crossed the Swamp/
“Where the Brumbies Come to Water,’
“Abandoned Selections,” “The Dingo
of Brigalow Gap,” “The Bush, My
Lover” and —the richest and most
memorably Australian of all —“From
the Gulf”:—
Store cattle from Nelanjie! The mob
goes feeding past,
With half a mile of sandhill ’twixt
the leaders and the last;
THE WANDERER
Travelling again, his swag
tossed in the rack above his head,
he thought about his mates: “You’ll find
gibbers and bloody sand,” they’d said.
He watched the desert wheeling round.
A symbol of his mind’s despair,
alone out on the plain a whirlwind
writhed through glazed and trembling air.
He closed his eyes against the scene.
Then, jolted, jerked awake again—
red sandridges beneath a merciless
sky shut in the halted train.
And there, unloading sleepers, men,
the fettlers, with gaunt faces, spoiled
by lusts, by exile, trod the desert
parakelia as they toiled.
His mental hell looked out upon
this other hell at last made known.
He wiped his sweating face and in each
ravaged face he found his own.
Ahead, the locomotive’s scream
called on its freight of heavy cars.
The train ran on, beneath a turquoise
night, the galaxies of stars.
Daylight, delicate, parrot-breasted,
dissolved the stars, the moon’s white rind.
Scenting the wind, he knew that heaven
or hell were regions of the mind.
N.S.W.
ROLAND ROBINSON.


AVAILABLE AGAIN
AVAILABLE AGAIN
Modern Australian
ABORIGINAL ART
by REX BATTARBEE
‘'The twenty-one colour plates alone are worth the price of the book, and combined with
Rex Battarbee’s story of the discovery and growth of the Hermannsburg colony of aboriginal
artists, the book is indeed a valuable work.” ( A.B.C. Weekly}. “A most beautiful
volume.” (Auckland Star). “A book for any Australian whether he is interested in
painting or not.” (Western Mail, Perth). 30/- (post 1/-)
Available from all booksellers and . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
IIC'A
m\\
%
I
A Unique and Beautiful Gift . . .
For Son, Grandson or Young Friend
Ideal Birthday Gift or School Prize
TREASURE ISLAND
By ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON
Profuse with Atmospheric Illustrations—with Ten Plates in Colour.
Illustrated by Australian Artist, William Bustard. With Typographical
Elegance produced by Skilled Pressmen, Sewn and Bound into Gold-Tooled
Covers.
and its Companion Volume
ROBINSON CRUSOE
By DANIEL DEFOE
Produced in the same exciting style as ‘‘TREASURE ISLAND”—
completing a fine Pair of Volumes —a constant joy to the young
hook lover.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
Printers and Publishers
304 QUEEN STREET :t BRISBANE
Obtainable at all Coocl Book Stores ,
Size 12f in. x 10 in.
Price £2/2/-
Per Volume
'
_=#
V
*
The nags that move behind them are
the good old Queensland
stamp—
Short backs and perfect shoulders
that are priceless on a camp;
And these are Men that ride them,
broad-chested, tanned and tall,
The bravest hearts amongst us and
the lightest hands of all:
Oh, let them wade in Wonga grass
and taste the Wonga dew,
And let them spread, those thousand
head —for we’ve been droving
too!
“Fair Girls and Gray Horses” was
reprinted almost every year up to 1907,
and there have been several other
reprintings at longer intervals. It is
interesting, as a proof of the lasting
vitality of the bush ballads, which, of
course, must take a permanent place in
Australian literary history, that there is
still sufficient demand to warrant a
reprinting now.
Reviewed Briefly
Undoubted Queen: H. Tatlock Miller
and Loudon Sainthill (Hutchinson).
Compiled by two Australians, this is a
large and handsome book of photo-
graphs of the Queen; mostly in black-
and-white, a few in color. Put together
to show the Queen’s predecessors on
the English throne, with considerable
emphasis on the first Elizabeth, then
her childhood, schooldays, marriage,
the pageantry of the Coronation, her
children, and her journeys around the
Commonwealth and in Europe, the
photographs make a kind of pictorial
biography and at the same time—with
some strangely sombre close-ups during
the Coronation are exceptionally
charming. It is the best book of its
kind this reviewer has seen.
* * * *
I’m Wearing My Ninth Pair of Shoes:
Hans Gunther (Dent; Georgian
House). A Bremen clerk, Gunther set
out in May, 1955, to walk to the Mel-
bourne Olympic Games. He babbles
along agreeably, meeting so many
agreeable ladies on the way that one
imagines that he is going to break Peter
Pinney’s records, but in Indonesia he
spurns proffered love, and again on
Flores. It is not until the swimming-
pool near Burleigh Heads, south of
Southport (Q.), that he finds a beautiful
Sydney girl holidaying . . . and then he
is in Melbourne, having done 21,000
miles in 17 months, 10,000 of them on
foot. He isn’t brilliantly observant of
scenes and places; and awkward things
don’t happen to him as they happen to
Pinney, but maybe those who like
quieter ersatz tours of the world will
find he represents them very well.


h fVTi-
ot&en
WALKER muss
fen&ducfo
DERATION WASTE TREATMENT
SPARJER Aeration Equipment
Impingement Aeration Equipment,
Downflow Mechanical Aerators
AERATION — WATER TREATMENT
Blow-Out Towers - Rotary Aerators
Tray Aerators
AEROBIC DIGESTION
AEROGEST
AIR LIFTS
Airopump
CARBONATION
CARBALL for Carbon Dioxide Production
SPARJERS for Gas Diffusion
FLOCCULATION
Bladed Slow Mixers - ADJUST-O-PITCH Propeller
Mixers - Paddle Flocculation Equipment,
GRIT REMOVAL
Aerated Grit Remover - Drag-Out Conveyor *
Grit Elevators
INDUSTRIAL SCRAPER MECHANISMS
Clariflow .Thickeners - Ore Classifiers * Scale Pit
Drag-Outs
IRON REMOVAL
Trickling Contact IRON REMOVER-CLARIFLOW
Equipment and Methods by Walker Process are protected by ap-
paratus and process patests issued and pending in the U. S. and
ether countries.
Treatment Plants
Including 3 types Package Aeration
Plants, suitable for population loads
from SO to 2000.
LIME SOFTENING - TURBIDITY REMOVAL «
WASTE TREATMENT
CLARIFLOW, Circular and Rectangular
MIXING
Industrial Mixers - Rapid Mixers
ENERGY MIX Unit
OIL SEPARATION
Coolant Reclamation Plants -
Oil Emulsion Breaking Plants
PAPER WASTE TREATMENT '
CLARIFLOW Save-All • FLOAT Alt
PLATING WASTE TREATMENT
CLARIFLOW Package Plants.
: ' • ' " \ ■ Wm
PRESSURE FLOTATION
FLOATALL
SCREENING
Mechanical Bar Screens - Shredders
SKIMMING
HELASKIM Helical Skimmers -
Tilting Pipe Manual Skimmers
SLUDGE COLLECTORS
Circular-Pier Supported-Bridge
Supported-TRACTOR DRIVE *
Rectangular Collectors - Flight Cross
Collectors - HELICOID CROSS Collectors
SLUDGE DIGESTION
Floating Covers - Floating Gasholder Covers •
SELECTODRAW Supernatant Withdrawal Unit
HEATX Sludge Heating Unit -
Downflow Scum Mixer -
GASLIFTER DIGESTER Circulator-Mixer
TRICKLING FILTERS
ROTOSEAL Rotary Distributors
Ditfusair Sparjer, Gaslifter, Carball, Clariflow, Airopump, Healj*
Rotoseal Rotary Distributor, Energy Mix, FS Mixers, Top Drive Col«
lector, Tractor Drive Collector, Floatall, Finerator, Selectodraw, Ae ro
qest and Telvalve are trademarks of Walker Process Equipment Inc^
WALKER PROCESS EQUIPMENT INC.
FACTORY • ENGINEERING OFFICES • LABORATORIES-
AURORA , ILLINOIS
Sole Australian Manufacturing Licensees:
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Lt
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
New South Wales Agents: ALFRED SN ASH ALL PTY. LTD.
SCO Kent Street, Sydney
South Australian Agents: MINING SUPPLIES (8A)
622 South Road, Edwardstown, Adelaide
The Bulletin, December 10, 1958, pag e
