

The Bulletin
"Debutante”— p»ge 32
Wednesday, July 9,1958
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
" Measles, I'd say, old boy.”


BOOK HUNT Eft, Box 2071, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
SIR ROBERT GARRAN
Sir Robert "Garran was a unique
figure in Australian history as dis-
tinguished from, colonial history.
No man saw more of the rise of the
Commonwealth or knew more about
the Commonwealth, and he was the
last survivor of the age of Parkes,
Deakin, Edmund Barton, C. C. King-
ston and of all the great ones who made
and marred the Australian Federation,
having been connected with the
development of the Constitution almost
from the moment the first sprouts from
the seed sown by J. D. Lang, Went-
worth and Parkes began to throw out
young green leaves.
He was no mere crusty survival. The
age of his youth lived with him in a
mind which almost to the end was
lively with curiosity, tolerant of change,
critical and well balanced. In every
sense he was a “scholar and a gentle-
man,” a man to whom poets loved to
talk, whose translations from German
lieder were sung by Lotte Lehmann.
He was behind the scenes of the con-
ventions which framed the Constitution
of the Australian nation. In youth he
was the friend of men who had sat in
the very first, even partly elective,
legislature constituted in an Australian
colony—the old N.S.W. Legislative
Council —and he lived to inhabit a
beautiful house in the beautiful capital
city of Canberra on ground which he—
in middle-age —had walked over when
it was a dusty sheepwalk on the wind-
blown March day when the first
foundation-stones were laid in 1913.
When he died 18 months ago he was
the only man alive who had known
intimately every Prime Minister of the
Commonwealth. He had known the
great figures of the golden age of
journalism and had written in partner-
ship with Sir John Quick a notable
classic law-book —-the first skilled
exposition of the detail of the law
of the Commonwealth Bill. At the
same time he was so little arid in
mind that he could turn out transla-
tions of German lyrics like his render-
ing of Rainer Maria Rilke’s “O Herr,
gib jedem seinen eignen Tod”: —
O Lord, give every man his proper
death,
The dying, that from out that life
proceeds
In which his love abided, thought
and needs.
For we are but the leafage and the
rind ;
The glorious death each hath within
his soul,
That is the fruit, that is the purposed
whole.
It was inevitable that such a man
should write a book. It is a pity that
he so long delayed the doing of it that
he was not able, before he died on the
edge of ninety, to put the final polish
on it. As he told the writer of this
notice some time before he died, “there
was so much to say that I did not
know where to end.” So Prosper the
Commonwealth (Angus and Robertson)
is without the final polishing and con-
solidation in proof which he would
have liked to give it, he being a perfec-
tionist of perfectionists.
His son Andrew, who saw it through
the press, says in the preface: “A few
days after he wrote The End’ death
overtook him on January 11, 1957,
in the last month of his ninetieth year.”
Very wisely the book stands as he
wrote it, and as it stands it will become
a classic, a lamp to illuminate the
growth and events of the country back
to the 1860’s, when he was born, the
son of Dr. Andrew Garran, who was
destined for the ministry of the non-
conformist church, but born to become
a journalist, an editor in the great
tradition.
He went to school at Sydney
Grammar when its playground, in the
words of Sir Hercules Robinson, was
a “goat-walk.” He ran messages to
the grocer along the gravelled roadway
of Phillip Street when it was residential
and the Bar had not invaded it. He
knew a Sydney with a population of
140,000, a Harbor, clothed with timber
on the North Shore, across which it
was possible for small boys to row of
a weekend afternoon to gather oysters
on the rocks. He knew a home in which
the original John Fairfax and Martin,
Barton and many of the great ones of
mid-Victorian history were frequent
visitors and a “Sydney Morning
Herald” in which his father, the editor,
could carry on a scholarly dialectical
discussion with the doughty Roger
Bede Vaughan, Roman Catholic Arch-
bishop of Sydney, on the conflicts of
science and Christianity and vanquish
the cleric with arguments which won
his admiration, if not his acquiescence,
by quoting the Bible against him: —
It would be an absurdity and an
irreligion to suppose that it is wrong
to study the wonders of creation.
“Consider the lilies how they grow”;
all vegetable physiology lies in that
invitation. “When I consider Thy
Heavens, the work of Thy Fingers,
the moon and the stars which Thou
hast ordained” —all astronomy lies
there. “Who hath weighed the moun-
tains in scales and the hills in a
balance?”—all geology lies there.
“He established the clouds above,
He strengthened the fountains of
the deep”—all meteorology lies there.
“I will praise thee, for I am fear-
fully and wonderfully made” —all
animal physiology lies there. “Thou
shall remember all the way which
the Lord thy God led thee” —all the
science of history lies there. No!
Science in itself cannot be bad, for
science is only methodised observa-
tion of facts and processes; it is
merely an attempt to discover what
is discoverable and classify and
co-ordinate the knowledge obtained.
It is almost unbelievable that the
intelligent observer of the Darwinian
age in which the issue was debated
could survive to a time in which the
article might well have been headed
“A.J.A. Man Socks Archbish.” and
illustrated with a picture of Flossy
Fewclothes in a bikini at Tamarama
Beach captioned “Flossy Says She
Loves Animal Physiology” . . .
Garran, when he died, was un-
doubtedly “The Bulletin’s” longest-
standing contributor. He wrote for it
in the late 1880’s, and in 1891 burst
into doggerel in its columns about Sir
John Robertson’s jeering verdict that
Federalism was “as dead as Julius
Caesar.”
In the 1898 referendum campaign
he used Price Waning (William Astley).
of the paper’s staff, as his Federal com-
mittee’s public-relations man to deal
with the country press.
He was one of the body of “young
disciples” whom Barton gathered round
him at the critical juncture and who
stood by him, rising stars in the back-
rooms where the plans were made, until
victory was achieved. Thus he is able
to tell the inside story not only of every
Federal Convention but of every
manoeuvre and counter-manoeuvre.
As thehrst Secretary to the Attorney-
General’s Department, he and Har-
wood Castle “opened the Statute
Book” with the drafting of a set of
Customs and Excise Bills in a bare-
bone manner which “made them like a
drawing by Phil May, with every
superfluous line rubbed out,” so that
Justice O'Connor of the High Court
once paraphrased their style thus:—
Every man shall wear—
(a) coat;
( b ) vest;
(c) trousers.
Penalty: £lOO.
He drafted the first social legislation
of the Commonwealth. As Solicitor-
General appointed by W. M. Hughes
in 1916 he was responsible for much
of the legislation of World War I and
was legal adviser to the Commonwealth
Government at the Versailles Confer-
ence. But the war did not destroy his
sense of humor, for he wrote home in
1918 from London: —
Have you heard what the Canadian
said, on hearing that the Australians
had camped at Bethiehem the night
{Continued on page 58)


V;.
v •
NEW MORE
POWERFUL
ENGINE
for INTERNATIONAL AS-160 series TRUCKS
AUSTRALIAN BLACK DIAMOND ABD-264
TILT-VALVE ENGINE PACKS POWER A-PLENTY!
Here is the new engine that has proved to be the
most powerful, most economical power package
offered in a medium-heavy International Motor
Truck. Maximum brake horsepower of 142 and
maximum torque of 238 lb.-ft. are developed with
lower fuel consumption but at the same r.p.m. as
older engines.
Many new features make possible this profit-making
performance ! New dual-throat carburettor, new
combustion chamber design and new air cleaner
extract every ounce of power from lower-cost fuel.
New piston and camshaft design eliminates waste-
ful detonation and improves engine performance.
Better valve and water-pump design further
enhances the willing performance of this mighty
"tilt-valve" motor.
If you're looking for dependable power, put the
Australian Black Diamond ABD-264 tilt-valve engine
on your pay-roll. It has the performance which
means a greater profit-earning potential for you I
mm
International ASC-160
PACKS EVEN GREATER PROFIT-
POTENTIAL INTO THE BIG
INTERNATIONAL AS-160 TRUCKS
SERIES
These International Trucks are ABD-264 powered I
International AS-160 and ASC-160 have reserve load-carry-
ing capacity. These versatile carriers have been on "Trial
by Torture" toughest of all engineering fault-finding
tests and proved the soundest investments in their class.
ABD-264 Specifications in Brief.
Horsepower .... R.A.C. rating 32.6
Max. gross brake M 2 @ 3800 r.p.m.
Max. nett brake 118.5 @ 3600 r.p.m.
Torque .... .... Max. gross 238 lb.-ft. @ 2200 r.p.m.
Max. nett 216 lb.-ft. @ 1700 r.p.m.
Compression .... 7.0 to 1
International AS-160
with tray body
Retail Sales Offices in Capital Cities and I.Hf' Dealers for Sales and Service in all *important centres .
INTERNATIONAL hi TRUCKS
ill
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
FMT—7B9/3L6


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 9,1958
Vol. 79—No. 4091
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.y, Wellington.
PEACE AND THE BOMB
A GAINST the background of lavish
post-war Government spending few
realise the burdens and losses imposed
on the economy of the Common-
wealth by war and the need for defence.
A matter of £l9O million is absorbed
each year on defence alone, much of
of it, as can be expected, wastage be-
cause of the swiftness with which
requirements change and new needs
grow. But this is only a part of the
continuing liability, which cannot be
measured merely in terms of actual
expenditure, since loss of manpower
through actual deaths in war —many of
them robbing the pool of ability of
some of its ablest members—and
through depletion of overall efficiency
must be counted in, together with the
maintenance of the huge numbers who
have claims on the revenue as the result
of war.
A/fR. MENZIES has given some idea
of the actual position in his recent
speeches while on tour. On the 1957-58
figures Australians are finding £164
million a year for expenditures bora
directly of the last war, apart from
what they are bearing in respect of
World War I, of which the beginnings
are nearly half-a-century behind us.
Out of every £ of income-tax collected
7s. goes to recoup war costs in some
form or another. And much of this
is a continuing liability, even growing
in some respects as men get older and
war disabilities take their toll.
The detailed figures are not fully
up-to-date, for there is always a lag of
a year in the issue of the complicated
report of the Repatriation Commis-
sion; but that commission’s outlay is
in the order of over £6O million a year,
which is more than equal to the whole
of the Budget expenditure of the Com-
monwealth for all purposes, defence
included, five years before World War
II broke-out.
It pays-ouf going on for £47 million
in war- and service-pensions, another
£9 million gross on medical treatment
and medical examinations, as well as
fares for those whose cases are under
consideration. Employment, educa-
tional benefits for deceased and totally
incapacitated servicemen’s children
and a dozen other items build the
accounts up more than £2.9, million.
'THE total is still rising, partly because
of changed economic conditions and
partly because of the liberalisation of
the system. Where in 1950-51 war-
pensions cost £26-million-odd, and
service-pensions under £2 million, in
1955-56 the bill for war-pensions was
£43 million and that for service-,
pensions over £4 million.
This, however, gives only part of
the picture. It is better seen through
the statistics of the numbers of pen-
sioners. Apart from those who died
in war, there have so far been
1,443,000 claims for war- and service-
pensions lodged in*respect of three wars
and the recent Malayan operations. At
the beginning of 1956-57 599,600 war-
pensions and 35,000 service-pensions
were in force, equal to more than
one-in-three of the male population of
the Commonwealth above the age of
35.
In the face of figures like these—
there being about 30,000 new applica-
tions due to war disabilities and effects
every year —there are still tens of
thousands of mugs who are willing to
believe the Communist and Leftist-
Labor libel that the Menzies Govern-
ment is a war-mongering Government
burning to attack Russia, or somebody,
and intent on the settlement of inter-
national disputes by force.
TN fact, the Communist-bloc authori-
A ties preach this fetish in regard to the
whole of the civilised West and find
morons who are ready to believe them;
even university students, some of whom
aligned themselves with overseas mobs
last week in attemping to see the
United States Consul-General in Sydney
for the purpose of adjuring him to ban
nuclear weapons, which are the world’s
only hope of preventing a "repetition
of the tragedies and losses of 1914-18
and 1939-45.
There is little doubt, in view of
Russia’s and China’s trained man-
power and superiority—which increases
every year, since both have large-scale
conscription and' long-term training
with conventional armaments on what
normally would be considered a war-
time scale —that if it were not for the
nuclear superiority of the West the con-
versions to Communism by force would
have been extended already to Western
Europe and Japan and be on their way
to the United States.
There is little doubt, also, but that
Russia’s reluctance to arrive at an
agreement for the banning of nuclear
armament, which is clearly shown every
time a discussion like that at Geneva
is mooted—despite the fact that the
Kremlin fathers the anti-bomb propa-
tanda in Western countries through its
fth-columns—is due to the fact that
it wishes to delay until it can bargain
from strength in the atomic field.
The Western States have now openly
and avowedly decided to pin their faith
on the nuclear deterrent to war rather
than on conventional forces and
weapons, and this has become more
the case since it,has been found possible
to reduce the size of nuclear weapons
and bring them within the range of
battlefield practice, whilst also increas-
ing the range of size towards the point
at which they can deter absolutely.
HTHE situation is more alarming for
the Soviet than it is for the West as
the bombs grow in strength. When
nuclear weapons reach a certain
destructive level on one side it will
avail the other side little to be able to
match its adversary’s effort. The point
of absolute power to deter seems to be
approaching with the recent explosion
at Eniwetok of a weapon which gener-
ated 20,000 times the power of the
Hiroshima blast. The pressure-waves
created by it were felt in Australia,
3500 miles from its centre, and if the
data available are even nearly accurate
it could wipe-out a country the size
of Belgium—at least for all practical
purposes—and make it waste incapable
of being inhabited by human beings
for a considerable period.
Possession of such aggressive potenti-
ality by one side alone in the struggle
of systems would give the owner of it
complete and untrammelled police-
power over the opposing section.
Possession by both would mean abso-
lute stalemate or reversion to conven-
tional methods of war to which neither
side would be likely to agree.
It is no wonder that, while keeping-
up its policy of using conventional
forces to bully little neighbors and
subdue its own people, the propa-
gandists Of the Kremlin are doing their
utmost to create a horror of usage of
the H-bomb and the ballistic weapon
among the people who depend on it
for protection against the extension of
the doctrine of Lenin and Marx beyond
the borders of Hungary and Czecho-
slovakia. It is no wonder, either, that
in circumstances which a few years ago
would have definitely produced Russian
advances into fresh small countries, the
Communists have paused on the brink
and contented themselves with half-
measures and subterfuges like that
involved in sending armies of Chinese
“volunteers” to Korea.
Nuclear power of deterrence and
reprisal (however horrible it may
seem) in the hands of the English-
speaking West appears to hold the
greatest potential for peace.


THE A.W.U. OFFICIAL VERSION
“Mr. Dougherty said the imitation to the A.W.U. to join the Evatt-sponsored Labor Advisory Committee was ‘the same old bit of roast-beef
on a new dish.’” (Sydney “Sun.”) “Mr. Dougherty said: ‘But the proposal seems to be the same dish on the same plate but with perhaps
a different waiter as a recent unity proposal.’” (Sydney “Telegraph.”) “‘The latest proposal appears to be the same curry, served with some
piecrust and parsley, on a different plate by a different waiter,’ Mr. Dougherty said.” (“Sydney Morning Herald.)
“Who called the a cook?”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Shadows Before
If the more optimistic prophecies about
the Commonwealth Budget have solid
truth behind them Sir Arthur Fadden’s
last effort as Treasurer must have novel
features.
In fact, such forecasts presuppose a
Budget designed to promote investment,
and since it will come in a year when
pastoral incomes are down and the flow
of provisional tax, especially, will have
been thinned considerably in respect of
both this and next year, it obviously
presages a deficit.
Coming on top of Mr. Menzies’s warn-
ings earlier in the month about the extra
burdens which will have to be carried
this year through the fall in export-prices
and the large amounts of public loans
due for conversion, it sounds a little
strange. It sounds stranger when it is
considered that it would almost inevitably
mean Treasury-bill finance, a matter
about which Sir Arthur is usually
inclined to be very resistant.
Perhaps he has deeded the making of
the programme to some extent to those
who will have to carry it out.
Whatever happens it promises to be a
good fighting Budget with a lot more to
conciliate the electors in it than the shaky
proposals of the A.L.P. for reducing the
cost of hire-purchase and building-up the
homes programme —both schemes which
set Mr. Cahill shaking with appre-
hension. He has not much thunder
to lose, and the Federal A.L.P. appears
to be hogging to steal what he has.
The Federal Budget is to be brought
down on August 5, and when looked
at in conjunction with the timing of Mr.
Menzies’s tour of the continent —one of
the most extensive ever undertaken by a
Prime Minister —this appears to be an
augury for an early election and to lend
color to the suggestion that the end of
October or early November might be a
good time to hold it.
No word has been said so far about
Constitutional issues, but the report
of the Constitutional Committee is
apparently nearly ready, and if it- is
intended to put amendments to the Con-
stitution to the electorates contempor-
aneously with the poll an early election
can be ruled-out.
The Constitution Act provides that
any proposed amendment must be passed
by an absolute majority in each House
and then, not less than two or more than
six months after its passage through the
Houses, it shall be submitted in each
State to the electors. It would be impos-
sible to encompass this procedure before
December, but perhaps the Government
feels that it would be risky to face the
Senate at this juncture with amendments
which would have more certainty of being
passed by a new Senate next year.
The amendments needed, whatever
may be proposed, affecting as they do
Section 92 and new State questions and
finance, are so important that they should
certainly be the subject of thorough
debate.
Too Many Supporters
Premier Bolte did not jib the issue, and
threw open a secret, exhaustive (and
four-hour) ballot for the 14 members of
.Victorian State Cabinet.
They all got back and retained their
portfolios, but it wasn’t really surprising,
since there were 14 to vote the Minis-
terial ticket while the backbenchers
fought among themselves.
Some of them made a good showing,
including Vernon Christie (lvanhoe),
who is Chairman of Committees ; E. R.
Meagher (Mentone), who is Govern-
ment Whip ; V. F. Wilcox (Camberwell);
J. F. Rossiter (Brighton); and J. D.
MacDonald (Burwood).
Members who are attempting to crack
the Cabinet are intelligent, and some are
ambitious, and Bolte must find, as have
predecessors who have been similarly
fortunate in having majorities, that
one of his biggest headaches will be to
keep the party intact in the Assembly ;
the Liberals have 38 seats and only 10
Assembly Ministers.
Within a year Murray Porter and
A. J. Fraser, now Assistant Ministers, are
expected to become the new Minister for
Local Government and full-time Minister
for State Development respectively, but
these appointments will create no new
vacancies and must themselves be passed
by a majority of both Houses, in a
Constitution Amendment Bill, so in
normal circumstances the backbenchers
will remain at the rear of the Ministerial
benches for another three years.
Economic Reverse
[trum Canberra]
Faced with a national economic reverse,
and with the position in New Zealand
to study, the Federal Ministry is un-
likely, in the 1958-59 Budget, to make
concessions of more than £25 million,
and most of this will be devoted to in-
creased social-service benefits.
To grant even this concession, the
Menzies-Fadden coalition, for the first
time since it assumed office in 1949,
would probably have to budget for a
deficit —the deficit to be financed by the
issue of Treasury-bills.
Unpleasant, hard facts emerged from
the Ministry’s deliberations on the Budget
last week, held under the cloud of the
latest trade figures, which showed a severe
drain on Australia's overseas reserves in
the last 12 months.
Some Ministers wanted a “high, wide
and handsome” Budget, with something
for everyone, but Menzies and Fadden
put their foot down firmly and
said quite plainly it just couldn’t be done.
Main outstanding items facing the -
Government this year are loan-
redemptions, which may cost £BO
million in cash, the cost of conces-
sions from the last Budget (£3O million
this financial year) and the cost of the
proposed social-service increases (about
£25 million).
Commonwealth Statistician Carver
really showed the Government what it
was up against when he issued figures
showing that Australia’s overseas trade
would net it only £2B million in 1957-58,
compared with £274 million the previous
year.
Apart from actual trading, Australia
had to find £l7O million, approximately,
to cover freight, insurance, dividends,
remittances, etc., while capital-movement
netted Australia £l2O million, leaving a
deficit margin of £SO million.
The trade balance of £2B-odd million
will find part of this, but the remainder
comes from international reserves and
the use of approximately £3O million of
these will reduce them to about £540
million.
The result shows a marked contrast
to 1956-57, when reserves increased by
£212 million.
A variety of factors are responsible
for the trend, mainly falling export-
income as a result of the drought and
fall in wool prices, and the extremely
high rate of imports over the past few
months.
The results have put “paid” to any
thoughts that there might be a relaxa-
tion of import-restrictions when the new
licensing period commences on August 1.
Exit Eisenhower Doctrine
Before June 23 nobody in the United
States Embassy in Beirut seemed to have
any doubt but that Lebanon was being
seriously threatened by a “massive” inva-
sion of Syrians and Egyptians backed by
Russian arms and gold, and correspon-
dents reported on the types of armament
which the rebels appeared to possess.
On that date the rebel leader, Saeb
Salam, said that it would be wrong to let
observers into areas where their lives
might be endangered. So far, accord-
ing to Colonel Brown, forward-area com-
mander of Mr. Hammarskjold’s mission,
r.o observers had been fired-on, though
some of them had been within sound of
the shooting; but the “Times” corres-
pondent in the Middle East, who was on
the spot, meditated that the Colonel’s
denial that the observers were prevented
by the rebels from entering the border
areas “seemed to be a matter of semantic
diplomacy in the light of the Saeb Salam’s
remarks.”
Later the whole thing began to look
like a trap set by the Russians and the
United Arab Republic to catch the West.
Nasser had apparently shown a bewilder-
ingly pliable attitude to Mr. Hammarsk-
jold, and Moscow suddenly rose up and
accused the United States and Britain
of planning military intervention in
Lebanon, mentioning the overt military
preparations by the two Western Powers,
and declared that they looked on the
Near and Middle East as “a target for
continued imperialist intrigues and danger-
ous provocations.”
Then every effort began to be made
by Washington to suggest that the
Lebanese affair was a matter of internal
difference centring round President
Chamoun, this despite the fears of the *
U.S. Embassy at an earlier stage. The
Lebanese official view was held as


exaggerated. The viewpoint was propa-
gated that when President Chamoun left
office after the elections and a President
who commended himself to the rebels was
elected all would be well.
Washington was evidently afraid of
having to take action, because action
would be inconsistent with its abuse of
the British over the Suez affair and might
ignite a general conflict.
The London “Times” correspondent
in Washington reported:
Washington has been torn for weeks
between extreme reluctance to move in
either direction. To find now that the
Lebanese rebellion is a domestic matter
precluding outside intervention is virtually
to deny that the situation springs almost
directly from the Eisenhower doctrine, to
which Lebanon was tbe sole subscriber
at the implied expense of its traditional
role as a bridge between the Western and
Araii worlds.
A few months ago Washington policy
undoubtedly was that Lebanon should
receive massive economic support from
Washington and be made the base of
U.S. influence in the Arab world of the
Middle East. Now it has been decided
to leave it to Mr. Hammarskjold to get
the State Department and President out
of an awkward mess, and, as usual, he is
content to follow the U.S. line, despite
the fact, as the “New York Times”
reported, “U.S. officials said privately
that they had information showing signifi-
cant interference by the United Arab
Republic in Lebanon.”
The Orr Case
Although the Presbyterian clergy of
Hobart must be commended for their
crusading zeal and for their moral
courage in publicly espousing a cause
which has been the subject of so much
unsavory publicity, it is doubtful whether
their zeal and courage are matched by
a practical purpose.
Newspaper controversy, particularly
that part of it contributed by university
professors, has tended to confuse the
issues involved, some protagonists of
Professor Orr going so far as to deny
the right of a university to dismiss a
professor on any moral grounds at all,
no matter how heinous his conduct.
Professor A. K. Stout, tackled on this
point, wrote in Sydney “Herald” that
if Orr actually seduced 18-year-old
Suzanne Kemp, then he was not a fit
person to remain on the staff of a uni-
versity. Stout also said that Orr had
expressed the same view, and although
the Presbyterian ministers in Hobart
have not expressed themselves on this
point it is most unlikely that they do not
concur.
The only point really in question is
whether seduction occurred —using that
word in its broadest sense, without
attempting to designate hunter or hunted.
Suzanne said it did. So did the Univer-
sity of Tasmania, the Tasmanian Supreme
Court and the High Court. Professor
Orr says it didn’t, and the Kirk Session
of Scots Church, Hobart, having found
Orr “a truthful and sincere witness,”
accepts his denial.
When the university rejected the Kirk
Session’s request to reconsider the case
and suggested that if Orr had new evi-
dence he should seek a new hearing in
the Supreme Court the Session spoke
of the university’s “heartless hypocrisy,”
which it said “brands it as unfit to hold
a Royal charter.”
The attitude of the Kirk Session is a
little difficult to understand. It obviously
believes that the university was pre-
judiced against Orr and treated him
unfairly, yet it expects it to reconsider
the case in the light of new evidence.
If the evidence is thought to be strong
enough to make a university which is
suspected of prejudice change its mind,
surely it should be strong enough to
convince an unprejudiced court. If, as
suggested, lack of funds precludes
Professor Orr from appealing, a public
subscription sponsored by the Hobart
Kirk Session and Orr’s supporters in
Australian universities should have no
difficulty in looking after that. Evening
papers, looking back and ahead, might
be prepared to head the list. They
couldn’t lose.
A Helping Hand
[From Canberra]
The Australian Cabinet last week decided
to extend a helping-hand across the Tas-
man to aid sister Dominion New
Zealand out of her economic difficulties.
Although the Australian aid —a £lO-
- credit—is small it will materi-
ally assist the Kiwis.
Enzed Prime Minister Walter Nash,
elected to office on promises of some-
thing for everyone, has found himself in
a cleft stick and his country near inter-
national bankruptcy.
However, the £ 10-million credit, to be
financed through the central bank, will
enable New Zealand to maintain a cer-
tain level of purchases from Australia,
thereby averting harm to Australian
manufacturers and primary producers.
But the loan is only a stop-gap measure,
and a team of Trade Department experts
will fly to N.Z. for detailed talks with
the Maoriland Government on means of
improving trade between the two coun-
tries.
The Australian mission will be led by
the First Assistant Secretary of the
Trade Department, Eric McClintock, and
one of its major tasks will be to carry-
out a complete review of the now 25-year-
old trade-agreement between the two
Dominions.
Australia is a vital outlet for many
N.Z. products, while in N.Z. Australia
has her biggest customer for manufac-
tured goods.
Any breakdown in trade between the
two countries would have a severe effect
on both economies, and therefore Aus-
tralia is anxious to do everything it can
to assist New Zealand.
Both the £ 10-million loan and the
decision to send the mission to N.Z. are
the direct outcome of Nash’s trans-
Tasman flight on the Queen’s Birthday
weekend for talks with Prime Minister
Menzies at Kirribilli House.
Australian Trade Minister John
McEwen was also present at the talks.
The outcome is sure to pay a handsome
return to Australia for what is, com-
paratively, a small gesture of assistance.
The G.P.O. and Gambling
The official attitude to gambling in Aus-
tralia is reaching a fantastic stage.
• Practically all clubs in N.S.W., except
a few very old-fashioned ones in Sydney
and an odd one in the country towns,
now live and thrive by virtue of the
poker-machine, which even those getting
rich in new buildings by virtue ot it are
coming to regard with shame as the
robber of the weekly pay-envelope of
families that can’t afford it.
The State-lottery craze has become
almost as much news as sex and crime
—where it is possible to exploit it.
This, in N.S.W., it is not possible for
the press to do to the full, though the
limitations are not in the interests of
morality but in those of Mr. Cahill’s
own State gambles.
It is, of course, illegal for a “foreign”
lottery to tout for business in N.S.W.
as it appears to be to tout for N.S.W.
lotteries in some other places ; but nobody
concerned worries much about that. The
forms issued by the Lottery Office in
N.S.W. calmly adjure the applicant to
fill-in the name of the State which he
inhabits.
The owner of Queensland’s larger
Golden Jests informs its prospective cus-
tomers that “subscribers residing in any
State in Australia are perfectly free to
“use the post-office when sending to
Brisbane” for their tickets, and notifies
them that all prizes are paid in Brisbane
free of Australian income-tax.
Uninformed people may be under the
impression that using the mails for
gambling purposes is illegal, but appar-
ently it isn’t when the revenue from it
is large enough. Millions of circulars
go through the mails canvassing for
lottery business. The post-office seems
willing to deliver circulars in envelopes
addressed only to “the householder” at
specific addresses. From each successful
bit of touting the G.P.O. gets Is. —4d.
from the circular and 4d. each for the
two stamped envelopes which the cus-
tomer must send.
One of these appeals issued last week
offers the recipient a chance in a gamble
with “only 200,000 tickets at 30s. each,
plus eightpence postage for return-ticket
and result-slip.” The show that runs
it is supported by the State—and a
Liberal-C.P. Government at that —sports
a post-office box and it even concedes
that in placing the order “a printed form
is not necessary. Plain paper may be
used.”
It is time the Federal Government
took a stand on the sordid matter, as
far as it can, and that it at least pre-
vented the post-office from soiling itself
with the gambling traffic and checked
the poker-machine evil with an excise-
duty or taxation so solid as to cut it down
to size.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
\X7henever I -see advertisements show-
* * ing an Air Force lass inviting
her Civvy-street sisters to come in and
be happy in the service with her, I shiver
with the. horror of a Queensland night
when, after surrounding a few in the
snake-pit, the sight of a new and comely
telegraphist not very busily on duty in
the lighted orderly-room awakened in
me the desire to be sociable. My gal-
lantries (verbal) were so firmly repulsed
that I retired in disorder to my tent.
Hardly had I made the home-run when
the orderly-officer and picquet burst in.
En route to the calaboose, I asked, more
in mystification than alarm, what the
charge was. .1 was cold sober when the
0.-0., with no attempt at concealing his
loathing, told me that the WAAAF had
phoned through to say that I had entered
the orderly-room and attempted to
interfere with her. I was a free man a
few minutes later, the 0.-o. having phoned
orderly-room and established that the
innocent beauty had meant to accuse me
of no more than interrupting her in the
performance of her duties.—“TV’
❖ *X* ❖
“Pelga”: Interesting to hear about
shares on time-payment (B. 25/6/’5B),
but the form of hire-purchase that really
intrigues me is that advertised by the
shipping and air companies: “Travel
now, pay later.” When you’ve had your
trip and enjoyed it, what is there left for
the h.-p. wallahs to repossess?
❖ ❖ ❖
“F.”: Surprised when I saw my wife
start the washing-machine with cold
water, and said so. Oh, it’s the agitation
and the soap-powder does the job, she
said, not the temperature. Why then, I
wanted to know, did ours have a heating-
gadget? People are conservative, she
said —always used hot water, expect it.
Ah, I asked, but why? (Nothing like
a spell in the house to turn a man into
a Newton.) Because washing in a tub
with hot water is more pleasant than
with cold, especially in winter, she said.
Impressed, I remembered Asiatics
patiently slap-slapping a garment against
a stone or deck, in cold water —and it
came away white as snow. When, I asked
humbly, did she work all this out?. She
had read it, she said, in an American
magazine.
“Xavier”: There he was in the shadow
of the Law and couldn’t care less. The
gendarme had just tested the steering of
his car and found that the vehicle went
in the opposite direction to the way the
wheel was turned because the steering
drop-arm had been installed upside-down.
The man in blue almost died of shock
(if not from contact with a telephone-
pole) as the old bus belted along at a
legal 30 m.p.h. There were some
spluttered threats from the Law. The
owner shrugged. “Well, you get used to
it, mate,” he said.
❖ ❖ *
“P.0.M.C.”: Re spectator-brawling at
public-schools’ sporting events (B.
18/6/’58): Forty-five years ago, at
prayers on the morning of any Scotch
College v. Christian Brothers College
encounter in Perth, P. C. Anderson,
headmaster of Scotch, solemnly warned
the team to “play the ball, not the man,”
and the sectarian-minded rest of us to
“behave like sportsmen and gentlemen.”
At prayers on the morning after these
matches he invariably delivered caustic
sermons on sportsmanship, decrying the
hooliganism of both players and spec-
tators, especially when we had lost. I
suppose similar remarks emanated from
the Brothers at the same hour at C.B.C.
*> ❖ *>
“Beam”: That the office had been
broken into didn’t impress the police a
bit; the detective listened to the story
more in sorrow than in anger—forced
entry, forced drawers, keys to the rest
of the place so easily acquired. Oh yes,
they recognised the touch. The same sys-
tem had been used in other buildings.
Now, where did he gain entry? The boss
took them round, and it was then the
Law really showed emotion: a cleaner
was busily polishing the door!
“We're looking for a little widgie wifey for our budgie .”
GOOD OMEN
“A jazz band played in church at a wedding
in Kent.”
As one who has to listen to
Hit-parades all day,
Merely the house s master, who
Has, as they say, no say;
One whom the forward march of youth
Leaves somewhat in the lurch,
1 hope the paper tells the truth:
“Jazz Band Plays in Church.”
“The ole worls in Is unds ” for me
Is getting out of hand,
And, much more understandably,
“Then they will understand”—
I’m not as dismal as the guy
Who sings that awful slop,
But definitely sour, and by
No means a Lolly Pop.
But if the young aspiring soul
On Sundays at eleven
Is urged with jazz and rock-and-roll
To croon Its way to Heaven
The upshot and result of this,
I venture to foretell:
Since youth, alas, is what it is,
May suit me very well:
’’You heard ol’ Heifetz’ latest wax
Of Ludwig’s gut-sonata. . . .?”
“I’m gohe, all gone on Arnold 8ax....”
“Man, dig that Bach toccata !”
It’s far too much to hope, I guess,
I merely state the rule;
But if there were such miracles
It would be cool, man, cool!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


I always believed that a whiff of
sulphur or some such stupefying agent
was the favorite method of gentry raid-
ing fowlhouses ; but a practitioner who
faced a Sydney Beak employed a more
subtle and much simpler means: a length
of thin wood, tied to his leg, took on
sufficient of his body-heat, even on a
wintry night, to persuade a few feathered
matrons suffering from cold feet to step
on to it and thence be borne out coma-
tosely and in triumph. An un-co-operative
lord of the harem, irate at his slumbers
being thus disturbed, let out a premature
welcome to the dawn and earned for the
self-service customer a few months in a
place where they don’t have chicken on
the menu on Sunday—or do they?:—“Bo.”
♦3* *J*
“St'romlo”: Latest U.N. figures show
the world’s population increasing at an
average rate of 5400 persons every hour,
or 47-million a year —which will double
the present 2737-million humans within
40 years. So it’s no longer a case of one
being born every minute, though the
other part still holds good.
♦3* »3» ♦>
“JJ.A.”: Maybe Dr. Coombs is right
and the public don’t examine their money
carefully (B. 18/6/’5B). For a few months
I sweated it out as a bus-cdnductor. A
drunken woman once hapded me a half-
penny and wanted to know if it was a
shilling. That often happened. But some-
one handing me a deener under the im-
pression it was a halfpenny—never, never!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Kinta”: Canberra’s first night
auction has been held, permission hav-
ing been granted by the Department of
the Interior for a trial period, since
under a law ■ common throughout the
Commonwealth it is not permitted to
hold an auction between sunset and
sunrise. The law goes back to the days
of kerosene lamps, when people couldn’t
see what they were buying after dark ;
no doubt Canberrans feel that the link-
ing of night with horsetrading might cast
suspicion on night transactions in Other
Places.
■*s*■
“Myall”: Bundaberg residents are
seeking to have the Avro Avian biplane
in which Bert Hinkler made his record-
breaking flight from England to Aus-
tralia in. February, 1928, transferred
from Brisbane to Bundaberg, where Bert
was born in 1894. A committee has
been formed to raise about £6OOO for
a memorial building to house the
machine in one of the city parks.
Queensland Government has approved
the transfer, but air authorities are
doubtful whether the 30-year-old
machine will stand-up to moving, as it
is made of fabric over- a light frame-
work, and has been hanging by wires
in Brisbane Museum. The wings will
have to be removed to get it out of the
building, and if the fabric has perished
they are likely to disintegrate with the
slightest jolting.
“Could I have your autograph, Miss Teevee, before I go ?”
“Ajax”: As the owner-driver of 1-16
cars over the last 50-odd years I think
that before the Holden there had never
been an all-Australian car, notwithstand-
ing claims by Bulletin contributors, who
missed-out on the Summit (sponsored,
I think, by the late Joynton Smith), the
Australian Six, the Rugby-Durant, and
others. All locally produced/ cars were
bitzers, comprising odd assortments of
American parts, chiefly with Continental
Red Seal or Lycoming engines. My
problem with the cars I’ve owned was
not buying them but selling the damn’
things. What puzzles me is that a buyer
will pass-up my car and then pay the
dealer 25 per cent, more than I ask—this
has happened repeatedly, even with
almost-new cars.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ex Vee”: Town Hall (Sydney)
underground railway-station is notorious
for its wretched lighting, and, to make
matters worse, the lights and the seats
are far apart. To overcome this, one
ingenious gentleman upended his attache
case directly under the light, and sat com-
fortably reading his paper halfway
down the stairway, his case resting on
one step, his feet on the next, with the
crowds surging past, up and down, and
all in a hurry. His troubles! He was
entitled to read his paper, wasn’t he?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Curate’s Egg”: Nearly everybody has
a good word for the Brisbane trammie
(B. l-l/6/’5B), whose white cap and dusty
serge tunic make him look like a Foreign
Legionnaire returning from a spot of
a.w.l. Queerest I met was a sawn-off
specimen who entertained us with both
pop. tunes and classical airs during the
off-peak run to an outer suburb. Appre-
ciative of our applause, he pointed-out an
advertisement in which a gentleman, with
his feet in the handles provided for strap-
hangers, was doing a trapeze-act to sticky-
beak into the folded-over portion of a
fellow-standee’s newspaper, and dupli-
cated the performance then and there.
♦♦♦ *3*
“Billtee”: Before moving to new
quarters uptown, Huddart Parker, Ltd.,
who occupied premises near the Hobart
waterfront for 70-odd years, hoisted the
Blue Peter above the building which had
for so long been the agents’ office for the
many ships of the line in sail and in
steam.
“Crow Eater”: Among people with
strange habits I’ve run across have been
stipendiary magistrates on circuit. One
in my list used to walk between
towns 18 miles or more apart, but always
carried a plentiful brandy-supply to keep
his strength up as ; in grey frock-coat and
tall hat, he strode along the road.
Another would get a price from a cabby
to take him about three-quarters of the
road to his destination ; then, when they
reached the agreed-on stopping-place, he
would say, “Well, really I want to go to
the town eight miles further on —I sup-
pose you won’t mind running me on now
we’re so far” —for the figure previously
quoted. Several of his victims were soft
enough to agree, until one day his driver
told him he’d have to find his own way
for the remainder of the distance. It was
the same S.M. who had his breakfast
sausages brought in in the frying-pan,
from which the maid was told to place


one on his plate and the others in his
hot cup of tea, to keep them warm!
Table-mates became used to seeing sau-
sages hauled out from the tea-cup one
by one, or to witnessing unused dry
mustard being wrapped in a piece of
paper produced from a vest pocket while
the dispenser of justice solemnly told the
waitress: “Put this away for someone
else!” In a town where he was refused
accommodation, the pub being full-up,
he smiled sardonically when Boniface had
to appear before him on some breach-
of-regulations charge, and startled the
court by rapping out, “Maximum penalty
forty pounds! ”
“Kenyas”: An hour before I to
leave for town to give a lecture I strolled
across to an old building in our school-
grounds where some lads were doing a
spot of painting. A boy, bucketful of
paint in hand, was balanced on a ladder
perched on a table. The ladder lurched,
the bucket capsized, and I collected the
full issue of off-white water-paint. There
wasn’t time to go home and change, so
I popped into a boarder’s bed while
Matron and her offsiders got busy on my
suit with sponge and iron. By the time I
was ready to leave it looked as good as
new, but you don’t get rid of water-
paint that easy: in the heat of the
lecture-hall, as the talk dragged on, my
suit gradually transformed itself from
navy-blue to pearl-grey.
. LT- .* At 7 p.m., at the King’s Cross
intersection in Sydney, an elderly
Mohammedan—probably a Lascar sea-
man unrolled a prayer-mat on the
footpath, knelt facing Mecca and carried
out his devotions; for the less likely a
thing is, the more likely it is to happen
at the Cross.
❖ ❖
tt
‘V.M.”: When the Russian Govern-
ment s auxiliary schooner Zarja tied-up
at Fremantle leaders of the Fremantle
maritime unions went on board with
flowers, and the papers remarked : “They
don t do things like that when British or
American warships arrive.” Scientists
“All right for a drive-in show , Wendy?”
showed the strangers our plant at
Watheroo and, in return, were shown over
the ship and examined its instruments (it
is examining variations in Pole-to-Pole
magnetic currents). Reporters noticed
that the three Russian women scientists
wore skirts a bit longer than those of
Perth girls, and that the absence of
make-up enhanced a youthful'appearance,
and three teenage boys stole, the ship’s
Hammer-and-Sickle flag, which was
recovered from the top of a flagpole at
the Fremantle Oval.
I -
❖ *>
“Little Tunn”: Re heights of ceilings
(B. 18/6/’58): at a local-government
conference at Katoomba a few years ago
the motion before the chair was that the
height of ceilings be reduced to Bft. The
debate was going 50-50 until a 6ft. 6in.
delegate rose to speak against. That
settled it.
*X* *** *t*
, „ ... , . . ,
back : A siren s , frenzied warning
followed instantly by the scream of brakes
brought every eye to startled attention.
There, swaying from the hips, an
inebriated Ajax stood -exactly in the
centre of the headlights of a car at a
range of 18in. He tacked on his way,
muttering darkly. On the footpath, he
approached a chap,who had been hosfng-
down the footpath in front of a pub.
“Listen, mate,” he said with the air of
a man striving honestly to track-down
the truth, “wash I in a-right or wash
I in a-wrong?” “Dunno, mate,” said the
hoser ; “I didn’t see it. But by the sound
of them brakes you were nearly in a
box.”
A. A. A
V V V
“Roomy”: Overheard in the powder-
room: “All this business about spending
four-million on publicity for wool —to
my mind it’s a waste of good money!
What they ought to do is think-up a new
name for it, something a bit glamorous”
—giving a hitch to her shoulder-straps—
“you know, dear, even in this cold weather
I can’t bring myself to wear woolly
undies ; they sound so elderly /”
ROAD REFLECTIONS
You’re bound for a revel;
It rains like the devil.
\ You couldn’t care less.
It’s not very far there,
You’re snug in the car there.
“ It’s stifling! ” she’ll stress..
As the window you lower
A truck flings up shower
Of mud-slush. The clot!
You duck, seeing it coming.
Boy! Won’t words be humming
When she cops the lot!
You could crown with a poker
The ham-fisted joker
Who likes nothing more
Thdn using full muscle
And every corpuscle
In slamming your door.
But whenever you’re closing
His door you’re exposing
Yourself to a whinge
About mucking his qar up,
What he'll have to spar-up
To get a new hinge.
The traffic cop, nasty,
Lets loose with a blast. He
Seems chockful of spite.
Why the hell should he go you?
You lash back —you know you
Are quite in the right!
(This, of course, will deny sense.)
He’ll roar for your licence,
His maw nigh a-foam.
You dredge pockets quickly,
Then feel rather sickly —
You’ve left it at home!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


A Page of Verse ...
BREAKFAST TALK
And is your beauty bounded by your
flesh,
is there no part of you that I can’t know
with searching fingers and devouring kiss?
Are you just so?
Is there no more of you, my well-found
one,
no thing I cannot fathom; have those
eyes
no depths that when your flesh is full-
- blown, done,
l might surmise?
/ know you now, and all that you have
been
from soft-as-swan’s-down flesh to bow-
strung cord;
have you no intellectual come-you-on?
Must I be bored? .
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.
BELLS OF ST. PETER MANCROFT
Gay golden volleys of banter
Bombard the clockwork grief;
A frisson of gold at the centre
Of prayer, bright core of life.
Who knew the old lofty tower,
The ancient holy eye,
To come open like a flower,
To roll and wink with joy?
Townspeople, who wear
Shrewd colors and know the move,
Now blunder and wander, I swear,
In a transport of love.
And the belfry, hale and blest:
Picture the jolly hand
Milking each swinging breast
Of its laughing golden sound.
ENGLAND.
FRANCIS WEBB.
THREE WHITE HERONS
Nonsense, they’re artificial. It is some
fanner
Or farmer’s wife has a whim for such
commodities
And white by the dam in the sheoaks ’
dusky murmur
Has set them there for company or for
oddities,
Three porcelain herons . ... as some
divert themselves
With frogs and toads and toadstools,
gnomes and elves,
All sorts of grotesqueness. It is a
recognition
Of some need of the earth Nature forgot
to fulfil,
Something which ought to be there but
certainly isn’t,
Or not in these stiff herons —standing
so still,
Wiy-necked, hump-backed, frozen on one
black leg,
You’d think they all hatched out of a
china egg , . .
And so they did, three porcelain birds
together.
True, it is easy enough to be wrong
about herons —
That beak went snap? Some ruffle of a
' wind-stirred feather ?
The movement of shadows may give
some faint appearance . , .
But much too faint to claim it a sign of
life.
Let us drive on and ask the farmer’s wife.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
A SHIFT IN VALUES
Let it be said;
By all means let it be sounded:
His syntax was well-bred,
His vowels rounded. 1
Let it be known ;
By all and sundry bruited •
His art was not high-flown,
Unless it suited.
Let it be heard;
Oracularly yell it:
Though hundreds bought his word,
He did not sell it.
Let it be told; -
To everyone be telling '
How Muses may grow cold
And end up smelling.
Let it be read;
Let it be written clearly:
“The old cow, she is dead,”
Or very nearly.
Grant them their 'fill,
The critics’ poorest cousins —-
Flies come in at the kill
By the busy dozens.
Then let it fade;
Let it give way, as ever,
To the New Voice, the gay blade
Who’ll part and sever.
N.s.vv.
BRUCE BEAVER.
A DEAD MAN
On the shore, a debris of sticks. Out to
sea,
A desert of water. If there would grow
a tree ;
A waterspout take root; there would be
Less need to watch the sea. But you
must watch
And any glint you catch, puzzle and
scratch
Your head, and try some pattern to
match.
Was it a fin? You know those sort of
limbs are in
The sea. And. if it was not, you must
begin
To exhaust all possibilities, all kin
Upon the land, including trees and logs,
Dead dogs', bottles and boxes; somebody’s
togs ...
And somebody in ’em? Oh, not that sort
of thing.
Not that! You really could not bear to
bring
A dead man in. You shouldn’t have been
watching.
O.
JOHN BLIGHT.
HIGH TIDE
There are no synonyms of broken trees,
cruel lovely gulls, or blossoming
dangerous weed
which par dll el the conflict of man’s blood.
No image metaphors the world’s distress,
contains even the shallows of our seas
where all the tides are full of last night’s
dead
yet glitter with a brightness sharp as
speed.
I mean a realm no language can express.
But I'shall think of man and all his pride
despair greed savagery and tenderness
and the great smallness of his majesty,
seeing each day these soiled heights of
the tide
where all the drowned are smoothed at
last to peace
and the striving sea ripples the rocks
away.
N.S.W.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT
JACK THE GIANT-KILLER
Jack it was who took in hand
and crystallised the average-man’s com-
plaint
against the supernormal and spectacular :
if there were giants in the land
would they consider the common benefit,
accept restraint, or, reaching for a star
endanger the „ shelf on which a candle-
flame
lit a small corner, if unsteadily ?
Why risk the light you have for dazz-
ling brilliance ?
Jack acted swiftly and the victory came
loud as a thunderclap when heavily
the giant fell down in a merry dance
of jangling clips and pots, the very walls
stuttering on their joists. But it was
over ;
the problem solved—the little man left
free
to make , his' own decisions: and a girl’s
hand reins the doughty Jack who, clever
in need, may live in peace, a pigmy.
What happened to the goose that hatched
the gold
or to the singing harp ? Most likely lost,
for who needs miracles where all are
equal ?
And Jack, some windy night, warding
off cold
with a firesider recollection, seems to
boast:
FFor,” say the infants, “if it is true,
where’s your medal ?’’
N.Z.
LOUIS JOHNSON.


POLITICAL POINIS
Alaska has saved Australia from be-
coming the 49th State.
• •
Early forecasts of Evatt Labor’s appeal
to the electors it will be based
on the three haitches —’ousing, 'ealth and
’ire-purchase.
a •
Queensland folk have been a bit
tickled at the sight of a handsome car,
chauffeur-driven and carrying Sydney
City Council Alderman A. E. Dunn, his
wife, son, daughter and son-in-law (the
last-named a council health-officer); the
party has been visiting Toowoomba and
Warwick, apparently with the avowed
purpose of studying “smog.” However,
there’s really nothing remarkable about
Alderman Dunn’s itinerary. After so
many years in the Sydney City Council
chamber he probably feels it necessary to
refresh his memory of what clean air
smells like.
/- • • ’
Yet another parson has been trailing
his conscience round Asia and wearing
a hair-shirt for the White Australia
policy. Asian students who have come to
Australia under the Colombo Plan and
Asian journalists visiting this country
have found very little racial antagonism
here. Let’s keep it that way.'
• •
Leslie Haylen, Labor propagandist
and M.H.R. for Parkes, is still peddling
his marriage-loan bait for young electors.
Its latest form is a £5OO loan, rebated
progressively with the birth of each child
until liability disappears altogether with
the arrival of the third babe. On current
marriage- and birth-rates the annual cost
of the “loans” would be £35 million, two-
thirds of which could be written-off for
keeps as baby-bonus.
• •
Sir Mellis Napier, Lieut.-Govemor of
South Australia, last week unveiled in
the Lands Titles Office in Adelaide, a
plaque to commemorate the cerftenary
of the S.A. Real Property Act and to
honor its originator, Sir Robert Torrens,
whose simplified system of land-transfers,
introduced in South Australia in 1858,
was adopted in other States of the Com-
monwealth and in many countries
throughout the world. Only those who
have gone through the complicated pro-
cess of transferring land held under the
“old” system can really appreciate the
true value of the Torrens Title.
• •
Pat Morton’s comment on N. S. Wales
Deputy Premier Heffron*s announcement
of a small surplus for 1957-58 1 : “Revenue
from gambling has again saved the State
Government from bankruptcy.” In sup-
port of his statement he quoted estimates
of gambling revenue for the year:
lotteries, £4,700,000 ; racing betting-
tax, £2,900,000 ; poker - machines,
£730,000.
• •
N. S. Wales Labor conference’s instruc-
tion to the Cahill Government to set-up
a single authority to control the genera-
tion and supply of electricity is opposed
by the secretary of the Local Govern-
ment Association, A. Mainerd. He says
that such a move would mean dearer
electricity and would be detrimental to
the economic and efficient operation of
the electricity-supply industry. Victoria’s
State Electricity Commission has been
held up as a successful example of a
centralised authority, but Mainerd points
out thatGhe Victorian S.E.C. serves an
area of 65,000 square-miles compared
with 200,000 square-miles served by local-
government bodies in N. S. Wales ; more-
over, only 55 per cent, of Victorjan rural
properties are supplied, but in N.S. Wales
the figure is 72 per cent.
• •
The Australian Coastal Shipping Com-
mission may enter the inter-State
passenger trade if private shipowners pull
out, as they hint of doing. Minister for
Shipping Paltridge .says that before any
decision is made a detailed investigation
will have to be made into the construc-
tion of sufficient tonnage to meet the
requirements now met by the privately
owned coastal fleet. Paltridge estimates
that to build a Commonwealth fleet to
meet the needs covered by the five
passenger-ships at present on the coast
would cost between £lO million and £l2
million.
He says that if private ship-owners
abandon the trade alternate transport will
have to be found for the 90,000 passengers
who make inter-State trips each year. If
the Commission doesn’t enter the trade
the only other alternative would be to
find these berths on overseas ships.
• •
[From Canberra]
Something like 400,000 people from all
parts of Australia visit Canbeira annually. It's
a wonder the number isn’t higher, if Aus-
tralians are interested in how their money is
spent. At present the Commonwealth spends
almost £lO million a year of taxpayers’ money
on the maintenance. and expansion of the
National Capital—in addition to the cost of
running the Federal Parliament and Govern-
ment departments, which cost approximately
another. £6O million.
In the financial year just closed the Com-
monwealth spent £7,989,146 in providing new
houses and fiats, schools and pre-school facili-
ties (the best in the Commonwealth), other
architectural work and engineering works and
plans. On top of that there was a further
£1,054,356 on “repairs and maintenance.”
Interior Minister Fairhall says the increased
expenditure on the capital is due mainly to
additional work being undertaken to provide
for the increase in Canberra’s population
which will follow the transfer of the Defence
Departments from Melbourne next year.
Ask anyone in Canberra, and they’ll tell you
the expenditure is justified, but what does the
average Australian, filling-in his tax-return,
think when he realises that the Government
is spending £1 for every man, woman and
child in the Commonwealth to expand the
Bush Capital?
“Don’t kid yourself, Artie! It’s raining all right!”


Labor is wincing at the Victorian
winter. Even in Bendigo, which the
A.L.P. retained by 950 votes, it got only
1534 D.L.P. preferences against the Libs.’
5834. Bolte needed the seat for an abso-
lute majority in the Legislative Council
as 28-year-old barrister and solicitor
Murray Byrne had won Ballarat. If the
Liberals had been able to entice the Doc.
to Bendigo to —er —support Labor,
Bolte might have cracked the jackpot.
• •
Australia’s housing programme is to
receive a boost in a roundabout way. The
Dutch Government has arranged a
£1,338,000 loan from the U.S. Govern-
ment Development Fund to" finance the
building in Australia of about 4000
homes for Dutch migrants, who will
repay the money through co-operative
building-societies. It is expected that
most of the homes will be built in N. S.
Wales and Victoria.
• •
When the Tasmanian Lottery case
came before the court in Hobart last
Thursday Dr. Turnbull reserved his
defence and Sorell, S.M., committed him
for trial on two charges of corruption.
Case to be heard this week.
• •
France, it is reported, intends shortly
to test a nuclear weapon in the Sahara
desert. The bomb is to be only a small
one and the Sahara is rather a roomy
playground, so it shouldn’t be difficult to
keep a sufficiently large space clear of
camels, tribesmen and caravans during
the period of the test. The problems
facing Sweden and Israel, also said to be
about to enter the nuclear-explosion club,
in their choice of a testing-site aren’t so
simple. Perhaps Israel will ask Nasser
for the loan of a desert.
• •
Irrespective of what they think of
Cahill’s ton-mile road-tax, intgr-State
hauliers have no warrant for refusing to
pay it. N. S. Wales Transport Minister
Enticknap claims that returns have been
lodged by only about one in every five
inter-State hauliers. It was to force the -
border-hoppers to pay something towards
the upkeep of roads that their heavy
vehicles cut to pieces that the tax was
instituted. Having thereby made itself
thoroughly unpopular with primary pro-
ducers and short-distance hauliers, the
Government would be foolish to allow
its main quarry to escape. Enticknap
says he’ll prosecute defaulters to the limit.
That’s all very well. But he mustn’t
make it an excuse for ignoring reasonable
demands for a revision of the tax.
• •
J- T. Kane, secretary of the D.L.P.,
has retracted his statement that Albert
Monk had sought and been granted
exemption from paying to the Clerks’
Union, of which he is a member, affilia-
tion-fees to the D.L.P. Kane says that
many prominent A.L.P. members of the
Clerks’ Union have sought such exemp-
tion, but Monk is not among them. Now,
presumably, some ardent A.L.P. members
will be having a .piece of Monk for
giving comfort and succour to the enemy
by not applying for exemption.
• •
Leaders of the New England New
State Movement wasted no time in
getting away their cable of congratula-
tions to Alaska on its admission to State-
hood. They said the achievement had
given them new heart “ in their fight ta
make New England the seventh Austra-
lian State.” Incidentally, the population
of New England is at least twice that of
Old Glory’s latest star. And, talking of
stars, Alaska was one of Uncle Sam’s
biggest star-bargains; he bought it from
Russia in 1867 for 7,200,000 dollars.
• _ •
An Independent candidate who un-
successfully contested the Geelong seat-
in the Vic. Assembly elections on May
31 has appealed to the Court of Dis-
puted Returns for a declaration that Sir
Thomas Maltby, Minister for Public
Works, was not validly elected and that
the election was void. His reason: that
Maltby’s alleged distribution of books of
matches to electors was ‘‘illegal practice
of bribery and treating.” Strike me
lucky!
• •
In returning the Hurseys their cheque
for union-dues refused by the Waterside
Workers’ Federation the A.C.T.U. execu-
tive said it had no jurisdiction over the
administration of the union. No one
said it had, but on the other hand there
is no reason for it to act as though
the W.W.F. had jurisdiction over the
A.C.T.U.
Jim Healy claims that the whole
trouble arises out of the Hurseys being
unfinancial. The Hurseys claim they
have tried to pay their dues (less the 10s.
political levy) and have been rebuffed.
Here was a chance for the A.C.T.U. to
test the sincerity of the W.W.F. It
shirked the task.
• •
“Mugga Way”: For decades neither
Government nor private enterprise was
prepared to spend anything except lip-
service in the cause, of developing the
“empty North.” Now, with huge mineral
deposits offering large rewards, Govern-
ments and private enterprise are falling
over themselves with offers of capital and
other help. The “boom” seems estab-
lished on a solid foundation, and the
end of the century may see a large white
population in the whole of Australia’s
tropics—even in the near-desert areas if
the promise of nuclear energy and water-
desalination comes true. It is thought
that the International Bank will support
the reconstruction of the Townsville-Mt.
Isa railway—which is likely to cost £3O
million—alter talks on the background
and prospects of Mt. Isa.
• •
Professor Zelman Cowen, Dean of the
Law Faculty at Melbourne University,
considers that control over political funds
and contributions to them by trade-
unionists can be exercised not by specific
Acts- —as Britain and to some extent
N.S.W. try to do —but by control over
registration of union-rules by the Com-
monwealth registering authority. Vic-
toria, W.A., S.A. and Tasmania have no
State laws on the question, and it is every-
where obscure.
• •
“C.S.”: One of the most enlightening
contributions to the Melbourne debate
of 1400 Victorian hotelkeepers was by
Frank Dennis, chairman of directors of
one of the biggest groups of caterers in
Australia; among his complaints of inac-
tion, by the executive of the U.L.VA. was
its failure to fight the 1956 referendum
on 10-o’clock closing. Not one licensee
dissented.
Victorian publicans reckon their earn-
ings at somewhat above the basic wage.
They complain of licence-fees, alterations
to the bona fide Act, clubs and excise,
which itself guzzles almost half of
the elevenpenny glass. The publicans
describe their taxes as savage and rapa-
and, on the figures quoted, they
certainly are not tame.
In less than five years Victoria has lost
49 hotels, and, although the takings of the
others have increased considerably, taxes
have taken such a toll they actually have
become less, profitable (and rather less
manageable) despite their swollen takings.
Last year Bolte collected more than £2
million in licence-fees.
• •
A by-election to fill the Mt. Gambier
seat in the S.A. Assembly, vacant since
the death of Independent member John
Fletcher, will be held on July 12. A. T.
Cocks is the Liberal candidate, RT F.
Ralston the Labor selection, and there
will also be an Independent candidate,
J. A. Barry. As an Independent Fletcher
successfully resisted Labor and Liberal
attempts to dislodge him. Both parties
are now hopeful of winning the seat.
• •
Australia’s overseas trade-balance for
the year ended June 30 was a surplus of
£28.4 million —not much more than a
tenth of the previous year’s £274 million.-
Estimated invisible imports of £lBO million
would reduce this to a deficit of £151.6
million, but if capital-inflow for the year
is found to have justified expectations the
net deficit will probably be more like
£5O million. In 1956-57 there was a net
surplus of £9O million.
• •
Indian religious prejudices, which have
been retarding the export of rhesus
monkeys for the manufacture of polio
vaccine, are yielding to diplomatic pres-
sures from both the West and from
Russia, according to reports. However, a
projected order permitting the export of
monkeys weighing less than 61b. threatens
to cause violent Hindu resentment. The
monkeys now cost £44—twice the price
of last year—and world-wide orders are
waiting.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Slight, spare, wizened and perennially
youthful, Professor A. R. Chisholm, who
will be writing about Christopher
Brennan in next week’s Bulletin, is,
frequently to be observed darting about
Australia like a swallow on the busi-
ness of the Commonwealth Literary
Fund and the Humanities Research
Council. When last seen by the present
writer a few months ago he was looking
suntanned and more youthful than ever
in his retirement from Melbourne Uni-
versity, and was planning to do some
research in England. As a connoisseur
of Mallatme and Verlaine he is peculiarly
well equipped to understand Brennan’s
poetry ; and, having studied under him
at Sydney University and afterwards
known him as a colleague and a friend,
he also knows all about him (with
tolerance and sympathy) as a man. For
years he collaborated with the late J. J.
Quinn on the eagerly-awaited Collected
Brennan, now close to publication. The
essay which The Bulletin is to publish
is a personal reminiscence of the poet,
from a chapter of Professor Chisholm’s
autobiographical Men Were My Mile-
stones, to be released by Melbourne
University Press next month.
• •
“There’s always a first time” holds
good with new Chief of Naval Staff
Rear-Admiral H. M. Burrell, C.B.E.
He was among the first R.A.N. attaches,
going to Washington in 1941 as a Com-
mander, and now he’s returning from the
first occasion -on which the R.A.N. has
exercised with the U.S. Navy in advanced
anti-submarine exercises, held off Pearl
Harbor.
Joining the R.A.N.C. in 1918, he com-
manded in 1942 H.M.A.S. Norman,
which took Sir Walter Citrine and a
British delegation to Russia.. In 1946 he 4
was promoted to Captain and took over
H.M.A.S. Bataan (she was in Manila
Bay when General MacArthur arranged
the Jap surrender and in Tokyo Bay for
the ceremony). A keen sportsman, with
tennis his No. 1 choice.
• •
His name not unknown to those who
infringe the parking-regulations, C. L.
Gentle is better known at the Cricketers’
Club in George Street, Sydney, as a
popular committee-member. Vice-presi-
dent since 1955 of the N.S.W. Cricket
Association and before that hon. sec. of
Balmain District Cricket Club for 10
years, he has been an officer in the public
service since 1915, first for a year in the
Chief Secretary’s Department, and from
then on in the N.S.W. Police Depart-
ment, becoming secretary of the depart-
ment in 1952. In 1955 he went overseas
with Commissioner Delaney, visiting the
U.S. and U.K. to study police methods.
“Uramao”: Appointed cfyief of the
Seato planning-office at Bangkok for
two years, Brigadier L. W. Thornton,
N.Z.’s Adjutant-General, won the King’s
Medal as the outstanding graduate of his
year at Duntroon Royal Military College.
Thornton linked-up with the N.Z. Army
in 1939. Besides his present job he- has
filled those of Army liaison-officer in
London and Quartermaster-General in
N.Z.
SIR HENRY ABEL SMITH, G.C.V.O.,
Governor of Queensland.
When/Sir Owen Dixon, Chief Justice
of the High Court of Australia, recently
received the honorary degree of Doctdr
of Civil Law at Oxford University he
was one of an interesting trio to get that
degree. The others were British Prime
Minister Harold Macmillan and British
Opposition-leader Hugh Gaitskell, first
time two former Oxford men had held
those political positions at the same time.
e •
Frank Longstaff Appleby, who retired
on June 30 as one of the professorial
staff of Virginia (U.S.A.) Medical College,
was educated at Wesley College, Mel-
bourne, was a Rhodes Scholar, and was
senior lecturer in pathology at Melbourne
University until 1932, when he accepted
the Virginia post.
• •
“C. C. of S.”: Promotion of Alan
Edge to the position of Deputy Engineer
of the City of Sydney was well merited.
As Superintendant of Works he asked
from his officers and staff two qualities
he exemplifies scrupulously himself —
honesty and conscientious work. One
council employee who had been mildly
disciplined gave him an unsolicited testi-
monial he will probably appreciate:
“Edge! That b ’s for the council all
the time.”*
• •
John D. Bailey, whose thesis on Aus-
tralian company borrowing has won him
a Doctorate of Philosophy at Oxford,
was educated at Queen’s College, Mel-
bourne University, spent two years
at the Australian National University
completing his degree, and then joined
the London investment department of the
Sun Life Assurance Co., of Canada.
Bailey’s thesis was on the' heavy borrow-
ing in Britain, especially Scotland, of
Australian pastoral mortgage-investment
and banking companies at a time when
these companies secured their leading
position in the Australian economy.
• •
By one who knew him:
Ei nest David Roper, Chief Judge in Equity,
was a man whom lawyers admired because
ot the distinction of his mind and his calm,
dispassionate, judicial tempei ament. He had
all the classic qualities of a-great Equity judge:
integrity, learning, discrimination in the use
of words, good sense and that peculiar fair-
mindedness and sense of fair dealing which
can illuminate the doctrine of- the Chancery
Court. He was always courteous, always kind.
There were never any scenes in his court.
The Bar who practised before him had too
great a respect for him for' that.
He was appointed to the Bench, first in the
Land and Valuation Court, at an early age
and after relatively few years at the Bar. Later
he transferred to the Equity jurisdiction and
became Chief Judge in Equity in 1947.
He was born at Orange (N.S.W.) in 1901, a
member of a family of which several served
the State of N.S.W. with distinction. He was
at school mainly in the country, but in his
last school year was at North Sydney Boy’s
High School. Going up to the University
wan the Barker Scholarship in Mathematics,
he was soon recognised as the most brilliant
student the School of Mathematics had ever
had. He graduated with first-class 7 honors and
the University medal in both mathematics and
philosophy and with honors in English.
He always retained an interest in scholarship,
especially mathematics, and a deep love for
the University, where he was, while at the Bar,
lecturer in Equity and, while a judge, a member
of the Senate and for many years Deputy
Chancellor. This was only one aspect of a
strong and spiritual interest in education; for
he liked young people, students in particular.
The law studenis year by year elected him
president of the University Law Society. Yet
with all his distinction of mind and character
he was genuinely humble and self-edacing.
“Any publicity,” he once said to a friend,
“may be. good for a politician; any publicity
is bad for a judge.”
The remarkable attendance at the service
at All Saints, Woollahra, where he had been
a worshipper, showed how much and how
widely he by his quiet mind, courteous manner
and good character had gathered esteem,
friendship and respect.
• •
For the last 11 years headmaster of
the Victorian Education Department’s
correspondence school, Ernest Pridgeon
has just retired. His more than 2000
pupils have been chiefly country, but
have included a few physically handi-
capped youngsters in Melbourne, and
children of Government-employed
families abroad, servicemen and
missionaries. (Each looks after its
own absent youngsters.) The retired head
began as the one and only teacher at a
small country school, but can claim he
ended with the largest roll-call, even if


“ absent.” What he wants now, he says,
is a holiday.
• •
“C.”: Imants Rumpe, 33-year-old
migrant who a few weeks back was
awarded a Fellowship at the W.A.
University for research on roads, gained
some of his present knowledge of roads
the hard way—working on them for the
Main Roads Department. A foot-injury
made him give that away, so he took an
engineering course at the University,
graduating with honors last year, with
a thesis on soil-mechanics. His Fellow-
ship is being financed by the Perth
Chamber of Commerce, from contribu-
tions by members.
• •
“Judee”: Surely Ted Ansell, of
Sydney, is Australia’s, if not the world’s,
oldest racing-car driver! He’s not saying
just how many summers he’s seen, but —•
well, in 52 years of car-driving and car-
racing he’s never had an accident. Here
are some of his recent wins: Orange
(N.S.W.) hill-climb in the record time
of 29sec.; Bathurst sedan-car handicap
flying quarter-mile with a speed of 85.76
m.p.h.; Australian' Racing Drivers’ Club
under-750c.c. sprint championship in
21.065ec.
• •
Re-elected for the second time as
president of the N.S.W. Shires Associa-
tion, A. C. (Cam to his friends) Marshall
is president of Patrick Plain Shire.
Sketched when he called in at The
Bulletin to renew an old acquaintance,
he grazes cattle and poll-sheep at Ravens-
worth, near Singleton (N.S.W.), and is
well and favorably known to the C.M.F.
units who camp there, especially those
with memories of the 1955 floods.
He was in the A.I.F. (remount service)
in War I and was an administrative
officer in the R.A.A.F. in War 11. Twenty
years in local-government and 14 times
shire-president, he has twice been pre-
sented to the Queen Mother, first in 1927,
when she was Duchess of York and he
was country vice-president of the R.S.L.,
and again this year, as shire-president.
SHIRE PRESIDENT
"Jock”: Senator W. P. Ashley (whose
passing was noted in last week’s Bulletin)
was Mayor of Lithgow (N.S.W.) for two
years in the hungry ’thirties ; his mayoral
allowance was £2OB p.a., but his hand
was always in his pocket to meet calls,
or for such things as the Christmas-tree
party he threw for 1500 children of unem-
ployed parents at Lithgow Town Hall in
1930. Every kiddie got a sumptuous
meal, something rare in those days of
stint, plus a doll or a cricket-bat, and went
home with the blessing of his Worship.
• •
P. N. Packham, who took over last
week as secretary of Australian Fer-
tilisers, Ltd., is a Bachelor of Economics,
and is honorary-treasurer of the N.S.W.
branch of the Chartered Institute of
Secretaries and honorary-secretary of the
Students’ and Research Society of that
institute. R. J. Reid, whom he succeeded,
had been with the company since its
inception.
• •
Retiring from the Regular Army,
Major H. L. Hartnett, Camp Comman-
dant at Victoria Barracks, Sydney, en-
listed as a gunner in 1921 in Ist Battery,
Royal Australian Artillery, was battery
sergeant-major in 1936, was commissioned
in 1939 and appointed to the Ist Heavy
Anti-Aircraft Brigade. On the outbreak
of World War II he became battery-
commander, 18th Field Battery with the
A.I.F. in the Middle East. Staff-service
and command of the 4th Recruit Training
Battalion followed, but he couldn’t “get
away from the guns,” and went to com-
mand 25th Coast Regiment. He was
senior instructor and second-in-command
of the School of Artillery, North Head,
Sydney, until his last appointment as
Camp Commandant. An M.B.E. in the
Queen’s Birthday list.
• •
Now Railways Commissioner in
Westralia, 63-year-old Tom (not Thomas)
Marsland is a Manchester man who has
worked his way up from apprenticeship
with a firm of locomotive manufacturers
to top administrative jobs. His only
absence from railway work was his four
years with the Royal Field Artillery in
France when the Kaiser ran off the rails.
Coming to Westralia in 1928 on a three-
year contract as a designing draftsman
with the W.A.G.R., he was managing
the Midland Junction railway-workshops
by 1940. For the past six years he’s had
the big job of reorganising those same
works. Meantime he’s had two trips to
the U.K. on railway business. The latest
job has a limited span —its holder is due
to retire next year.
• •
“Soc.”: Not being a Melburnian —
nor having, in fact, seen the Yarra since
Rogilla won the Caulfield Cup—l can-
not speak at first-hand of John Kinmont
Moir, but it’s surely a rare sort of tribute
that over the past 20 years in Sydney I
seem to have known him almost as a
close personal friend, without ever having
had any communication with him, nor
anything else except the say-so of writers
who at different times had met him,
perhaps at the Bread and Cheese Club,
or else maybe at his home in Richmond,
surrounded there by his collections of
Australiana and literary and art relics.
On all I’d ever heard I have the im-
pression of his having been as great a
J. K. MOIR
personal friend as Australian writers in
general ever had. Public libraries in
Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide already
house some of his Gordon collectings,
and that was only one of his Australiana
interests. A listing of merely some of
his honorary undertakings suggests how
widely he will be missed, now that he
has passed on in the Melbourne he
helped so much to make a friendly
Mecca for literary folk of all shapes and
sorts. Among other like activities, he had
been treasurer of the Historical Society
of Victoria, patron of the Gordon Society,
committeeman or member of the Aus-
tralian Literary Society, the Henry
Lawson Society, the Ballarat Gordon
Memorial Committee, and the Poetry
Lovers and the Writers’ Club. He hailed
originally (I’m told) from right at the
top of Australia—born on the Gulf of
Carpenteria in 1893.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at’ 61, H. E. Beaver, former
manager of 2KY broadcasting-station and
before that a theatre-manager in Brisbane.
In Sydney, at 70, C. F. Horley, chartered-
accountant and company-director, vice-
president and past-president of the Australian-
American Association and past-president of the
Association of Accountants of Australia.
At Gunnedah (N.S.W.), at 72, P. R. de
Couteur, former headmaster of Newington
College, Sydney. A Victorian Rhodes Scholar
in 1908 and an Oxford M.A., he lectured at
the University of Western Australia, 1913-18,
was headmaster at the Methodist Ladies’
College, Hawthorne (Vic.), until 1929, then
headmaster of Hale School, Perth, until he
took over Newington College in 1930.
Jn Melbourne, at 65, R. W. Mac Call, chief
engineer of railway-construction for the
Victorian Railways, 1938-57.
In Perth, at 74, Harold Benjamin Hayles,
1914-18 Digger and Westralian public servant.
A mining registrar on the goldfields, he trans-
ferred to the Crown Law Department, retiring
in 1949 as Chief Electoral Officer and Under-
secretary for Law.


ABORIGINALITIES
DAYS IN THE PARK
"Deing one of them myself, I knew quite
well by sight some, if not all, of the
“regulars”'in that particular park. There
was the woman with the dogs. She was
accompanied usually by about 14 of
assorted sizes and kinds.
What for? It was a question I asked
myself with frequency about my fellow-
parkites. There was the elderly “athlete”
who seemingly came to the park for one
reason only—exercise. He appeared
always about the same time in the after-
noon, wet or fine, from the western side,
striding rapidly across it, his arms swing-
ing rhythmically, as though it was im-
perative that he should reach the eastern
sector as quickly as possible. Where did
he go after that? Returned, I suspected,
by a circuitous route to his starting-point,
and then, being a man of inflexible pur-
pose who would evidently brook no delay,
strode off immediately eastward again. I
christened him “Speedo.”
There was the age-defying septua-
genarian cyclist who, sitting bolt-upright
on his bicycle, wearing a collar and tie
always, and sometimes a bowler-hat,
pedalled as though everything instead of
nothing depended upon his going round
and round that acreage with ever-
increasing haste. Why? Well, both.he
(“Baldy,” I used to call him) and
“Speedo” had, I supposed, a great belief
in the benefits to be derived from per-
petual rapidity, though what those could
be, especially in hot weather, I was unable
myself to conjecture.
There was the bird-expert—a nice old
chap—his pockets crammed with frag-
ments of stale bread for the wildfowl,
which had become tame fowl, on the
lakes. He had studied their habits and
was most informative about them. From
a feather you happened to pick up, if you
showed it to him, he would tell you what
kind of bird had discarded it. And he
could show you where, if-you sat motion-
less on the sloping bank of one of the
deeper lagoons, you were likely after a
while to see a golden carp, 2ft. long
perhaps, nosing among the weeds.
There was the other nature-student to
be seen with shoes and socks off and
trousers tucked-up standing in the
shallows. He had a little net with which
he fished for gudgeon, baby tortoises and
water-beetles. These, when he caught
them, he put with shellfish in a glass jar,
to be transferred later, no doubt, to his
aquarium.
There was the old gentleman who
walked about, usually with his hands be-
hind his back, his eyes fixed perpetually
on the grass. The first idea I had about
him was that he scanned the “lost-and-
found” columns of newspapers and then
spent his spare or whole time in searching
for the things the unlucky so often leave
behind them. From time to time, how-
ever, I had seen him stop, take out his
penknife, bend down to use it and then
put something into a paperbag. This
inclined me towards the belief that he
might be a herbalist until I was told by
somebody who knew him that he >was
looking for mushrooms. Perhaps, as I
would have done if fond of them to that
extent, he sowed the spawn himself in
certain likely parts of the park,
There was the old-timer with the mouse,
He was standing alongside me at the
kiosk one/day eating an ice-cream when,.
happening to look down, I saw with
astonishment a white mouse emerge from
his coat-sleeve as far as the back of his
hand, and then, after sniffing for an
instant or two, run back inside again.
That man sold trick-cigars and other
“novelties,” but the mouse (a real 'one)
was no t for sale
xh(:re were always people in the park
n 0 matter wka t the weather was like.
Some of them> o( course> came into j(
merely to kill time, because, I suppose,
they had nowhere else to go. They
mooched about listlessly, carved their
initials or names in full on the backs of
seats, never seemed to know at all what
to do with themselves. Others came there
to wrestle with problems, because, no
doubt, it was one of the few places round
the city where the “wrestler” could con-
centrate upon them and become oblivious
to his surroundings without, if he kept
to the grass, incurring the risk of being
run-over. Furthermore, he could wrestle
with them out loud and gesticulate as well
if he wished to, as is so often observable.
Nobody minded.
Then there were the sleepers. They
slumped down anywhere, and, unmindful
of insects crawling over them, slept for
hours and hours, nearly all day some-
times. Had life become too strenuous for
them? Were they always overexerting
themselves? Were they obliged, I won-
dered, to keep awake all night?
I was never able to devise an explana-
tion for their somnolence that seemed at
all convincing.
Les Robinson.
* * * *
“Bicky”: Victorian towns Launching
Place and Whittlesea make one think of
yachts and fishing craft in some secluded
inlet, beaches, ocean and the tang of
salt air, but Launching Place is a hill
resort in the Dandenongs 41 miles east
of Melbourne, and Whittlesea is in
the open country 25£ miles north of
Melbourne.
* • <* *
“Cash Count”:' The driver of the
panel-van pulled into the kerb and took
a tray of his wares into a shop, leaving
the rear doors of the van open. Down
the street came the two mates, the big
bloke and the little fellow. They spied
the open doors together, and the little
fellow led the scamper. Strain as he
would, he couldn’t quite get to the loot.
His big mate shoved him aside, reached-
in easily, and chucked down a good-sized
portion. He took the same for himself,
and off they went, the labrador and the
foxy, each with a generous hunk of pets’
food.
* * * *
“Croid”: Sydney’s Clovelly Beach used
to have sea-eggs for sea-urchins) in the
surrounding rocks, with spikes that were
wont to break off in swimmers’ bare feet.
Now there are very few to be founds-
they are considered a delicacy by Italians,
who not only have taken most of them
away for cooking, often seen to
slice the top off and eat raw the dark
gooey stuff inside. Ugh!
* * * *
“O. K. Lee”: Let us now praise inter-
state transport-drivers! Thanks to the
gentleman who milked my car while it
was parked overnight in a hotel-yard at
Yass (N.S.W.) I landed with an empty
tank about nine miles out of Gunning at
6 a.m. on a bitter midwinter morning.
The first transport-driver to come along
couldn’t help me, as his vehicle was diesel-
powered. Before he drove off, after assur-
ing me that I wouldn’t have to wait long


}6u «<NOW, RooGHipao IT UK6
Th»S at A SaRBECuE ALWAYS
MAKES me FEEL like a
A eiASTEP CAMNI&AL /


for a petrol-powered transport, he
inquired if I had a hose to use as ~a
siphoning-device. As I hadn’t, he pro-
duced a good 4ft. of plastic hose: “You’ll
be sure to catch me up before we get to
Sydney, and you can give it back then.”
* * * *
“Pat Decroesus”: At an open-air con-
cert in Perth Supreme Court Gardens the
orchestra had settled down after their
preliminary tunings, quiet had settled on
the lawns, and the conductor, having
bowed to the audience, turned and lifted
his baton. But before he could draw the
first note from the waiting violins there
was a raucous burst of laughter from a
nearby tree—the garden’s kookaburra.
The conductor turned and bowed tree-
wards as a ripple of laughter swept
“Good old Shellback! You've busted the eight-hour mile —seven hours, 59minutes, 58 seconds!"
through the crowd. Jackie, having stolen
the show, retired with one muted
chuckle, and the concert began.
* * * *
“Apemantus”: That term in embry-
ology, “blastocyst,” should delight
“Gravelsnatcher’s” bushmen, too (B.
18/6/’5B). It has all the labials, dentals,
sizzling sibilants and open vowels of a
good curse. It could drive a teamless
wagon uphill—“ Move! You blasted
blastocyst! Move! ”
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: For sheer ferocious velo-
city is there any other creature that can
compete with the swordfish? Picked up
recently on a Westralian beach about 80
miles south of Fremantle was a bale of
latex, probably lost overboard from some
ship. It was raw rubber, in crepe layers,
compressed, about twice the bulk of a
70ib. bag of sugar. In it were —and still
are—two swordfish lances, the larger 1 Jin.
in diameter, the other about the thick-
ness of a navvy’s thumb. They had been
driven with such force into the floating
and practically non-resisting rubber that
the point of the larger lance can be felt
on the farther side, having pierced at
least 9in. The smaller lance, too, had
gone well in—much too far to be pulled
out. In the struggle to break free again
both lances had broken off short. For
comparison, a strong man plunged a
sharp-pointed knife into the bale as it
lay solid on a table and was unable to
drive the blade in more than 4in.
* * * *
“N.A.8.”: Feathers are the only things
wasted in processing poultry for the
Sydney table ; they are a drug on the
market. The bird, of course, is dressed,
wrapped in cellophane and sent to cold
store. Entrails go to pig-farmers. Even
poultry-manure is a profitable by-product.
Some farmers sell it; others give it away
in return for regular cleaning of the
houses. Egg-sales are still the major
income-producer for farmers, but scores
of them are packing chickens for the
table on American lines. Some up-to-
date farmers have installed machines that
defeather a bird in a few minutes.
* * * * *
“Inglegar”: Is the lyre-bird a ventrilo-
quist? The one which frequents our
gully was giving a superlative imitation
of the currawong. After a pause, “curra-
wock—currawock—currawong” sounded
right at hand from the orchard, and not
a currawong in sight. Another pause,
and then the clever mimic did the same
with the crimson rosella’s tinkling call.
* * * *
“Crow Eater”: I’d often wondered
about the origin of those round or oval
fawn-colored objects, feeling rather like a
tightly rolled felt ball, which one finds
on beaches —I picked up a number of
them one day at the mouth of the Murray,
at Goolwa, and they float in around Aus-
tralian and Tasmanian shores elsewhere ;
they’re also well known round the Medi-
terranean coast. I’ve discovered now that
in scientific circles they’re known as
Posidonia, the fibre-ball weed. The plant
has been found growing at a depth of
up to 50 metres (said to be a record
for a flowering plant), and has long,
narrow leaves with fibrous sheaths at the
base, which persist after the leaves decay.
The fibres gradually become matted
together as they are rolled up and down
the beach by the waves, and the balls
thus formed are cast-up in considerable
quantities. In some parts on the other
side of the world they have been used
commercially for making paper, mat-
tresses and so forth. The curious little
objects also carry the name of Aegagro-
pila, or goat-balls, because the man who
thus named them had in mind the balls
that occur in the stomach of the Bezoar
goat in the same manner that impaction
in cattle produced what we called “Dry
Bible” in the old days—a term which I’ve
not heard used for a long time.
*' * * *
“Frangeo”: A giant cedar felled in
the upper reaches of the Macleay River
was estimated to be 1000 years old. To
get the tree out of the valley in which it
was felled a special road had to be made.
The timber arrived at Kempsey railway-
yards in two pieces, 20ft. by 17ft. 4in.
and 24ft. by 15ft. 4in., and is believed to
contain 168.000 ft. of cedar-veneer worth
between £3500 and £4OOO. As it stood
in the yards it was valued at £5OO.
* * * *
“Godfrey”: Friend of mine left his
toothbrush in the pub bathroom and
returning for it found an old chap busily
scrubbing his molars with it. A tactful
inquiry, and the old chap was aghast -at
his mistake: “I’m very sorry, mate,” he
said. “I thought she belonged to the
house.”


AWidgiemooltha (W.A.) report
on a large diesel truck that ran-
down a ’roo —a half-grown doe ; good
eating. The driver hoisted the animal on
to his shoulder and carried it back to the
truck ; it was too heavy to heave up over
the high sides, so he dumped it in the cab
along with the stores. About 10 miles
further on the ’roo recovered, and it is
surprising just what can happen in a con-
fined place when a ’roo and a man long
to be other places, and three or four
cartons of sugar, eggs, flour and potatoes
are obstacles to a quick getaway. Finally
the door did open and out flew the driver,
closely followed by the terror-struck ’roo.
As the man scrambled to his feet he
looked up to see his ’roo-rissoles going
hell-for-leather over the low saltbush
scrub. —“Scrubbo.”
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: If “Brick E.” looks
closer he will find his old tiles
(B. 11/6/’5B) are made by Sacoman,
whose trademark on all its terra-cotta
products, from guttering to gargoyles, is
the five-pointed star. These tiles were
imported by Wunderlichs’ from 1895 until
1914, when they lit-up their own Aus-
tralian tile-kilns. The potteries at Mar-
seilles have been preponderantly Italian-
manned since the Romans chased the
Greeks out about a.d. 300. “The Mar-
seilles” tile was originally “Massila,” and
may have been designed by Leonardo da
Vinci when unoccupied by astronomy, art
or aeronautics.
# * * *
“Myall”: Back in 1889 part of a mas-
sive jawbone was found in Hughenden
(N.Q.) and sent to the Museum in Bris-
bane. The late Heber Longman, then
director of the Museum, erected a new
genus and species from the material —
a huge marine reptile about 40ft. long
that lived 100-million years ago and
was named Kronosaurus queenslandicus.
“Chuck that thing away and have a REAL king-size !”
In 1931 Dr. Schevill, of the Harvard
Museum (U.S.A.), was searching for
fossils along the Flinders River and found
a large number of bones in the vicinity
of the first discovery, and these were
shipped to America for rebuilding. The
work has now been completed at a cost
of £lO,OOO. The skeleton is that of the
same monster, and Queensland University
officials have written to Harvard pointing
out that Longman had built and named
the jskeleton many years ago.
~
* * * *
Shamuseen’: The all-islander ships
company of the Nancy Lee sighted a
pair of turtle oblivious of the approach
of any danger. The sight of such an
easy double quarry was too much for cap-
tain and crew. To a man they dived over-
board in quest of the spoil. As they
did so a sudden squall filled the sails of
the Nancy Lee. The cutter sped, with
her £lOOO of m.0.p., to become a latter-
day Marie Celeste, disappearing beyond
all mortal ken somewhere along the
Papuan littoral.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: A thousand seagulls had
freewheeled on the bleak southerly to
see what was doing across at the Dudley
Flats dump, but at the Port Melbourne
sea-wall the old codger with the sand-
shoes and his hat tied under his chin
with a bootlace still had his clients. As
they clustered trustingly round their
accustomed benefactor and his brown-
paper bag he confided, “Seagulls don’t
like bread. Always feed ’em toast; it
drives off most of the starch.”
THE WHITEBAIT FISHING ...
By Gloria Rawlinson
Raging, a lofty surf on the bar, Waikato
water
Spills rumpled ' through the dunheads,
ocean-breathed, swift, sprawling
Miles along to the bridge and bend where
salt swirls into fresh ;
Pumice r driftwood, shags, and fat red
ntidlet the river brings,
But with the brown October tide comes
the whitebait fishing.
Which beckons now old Mrs. Pai’s
sturdy-limbed granddaughter
To one particular sandy niche calmed
against current
By driven stakes and stones; there,
braced and eager the girl stands
Thighs deep in chilly water, yellowed
net in her hands,
Dark eyes alert to skim the cream of the
whitebait fishing.
None is quicker on this shore to guess
the path of a run.
Grandmother dreams on a sandstone
boulder, arthritic hands
Folded on her black serge lap, head
swaying in slight sun,
And the spark in her heart is this girl of
fifteen summers,
This girl with the bubbling blue cotton
breasts and tucked-in skirt,
Her sinewy arms poising the net for the
upstream shoals.
“Ah, Meremere, come long years of
whitebait fishing
In the ice-cold river, the blood cools and
the joints stiffen.
One feels the perplexity of tears, the live
moment stamped,
As on my face, with the intricate tattoo
of dead times.
For now / am broken. Now death comes
loudfooted, my dear.
Ah, be strong against the river, be sly
with little fish :
That is what your great-grandmothers of
the whitebait fishing
(Centuries of whitebait fishing) taught me.
So here and now
I warm myself watching you at the old
occupations,
Using up the same strength, the same
fire that once burned in me,
In your virgin self then strength of myself
and our forebears,
And more, the skill and knowledge that
is the reward, my dear,
For necessity respected The loved
name on her mouth
Stirs in the reeds; love shivers in her
eyes like waterlights.
But Meremere, braced for the catch,
stoops, swoops the net.
The net is heavy to haul, for the shoal,
a thousandfold
Of tiny bootlace fish with pinhead eyes
that will peer black
From many a breakfast fritter tomorrow
morning, stream
Teeming, a huddle into Meremere’s expert
net.. “Look, look !
We are going to be rich”—her brown
legs shake off the river,
Over the small sad grandmother her body
breaks a smile :
She says, “Ah, it is easy money this
whitebait fishing”


THE TOO-BLUE CHIPS
IT investment has
profoundly affected Aus-
tralian sliaremarkets over the
past three years, and this
influence is likely to grow as
recent financial developments
make their impression.
The swing-over to industrial-
share investments by assurance
and insurance companies with
underwriting funds to invest,
the growth of staff-provident
funds of companies with big
payrolls, and the swift expan-
sion of the fixed-trust
form of investment have made
institutional investment a
strong post-war influence in the
market for equity shares on the
Stock Exchanges.
In addition to this, high
taxation on the profits of
public companies has popu-
larised the fixed-interest type
of capital-raising by businesses.
Sometimes the fixed-interest
Becurity is convertible into
ordinary shares after a period ;
but in the meantime it reduces
the company’s liability to
income-tax (whereas dividends
on ordinaries have been sub-
ject to company-tax, and bear
tax again in the hands of
shareholders). The immediate
sharemarket effect of these
interest-bearing note-issues is,
however, that they reduce the
flow of new issues of shares,
with the result that there tends
to be a shortage of scrip avail-
able in popular companies.
Scrip in Short Supply
Under pressure of increased
buying from institutional
investors, and with this shrink-
age in the availability of new
issues, the tendency has been
for stocks approved by institu-
tional investors to be in almost
constant short-supply, and for
these stocks to stay at firm
prices even when economic
reverses of considerable weight
occur.
Stocks like 8.H.P., 1.C.1.,
A.C.1., Woolworths, Burns
Philp, McPherson’s and C.S.R.
have been consistently bid-up
to give a low yield, and the
fact that B.H.P. must figure in
the investment-portfolio of
almost every staff-provident
fund and every fixed-trust, as
well as every insurance-
company portfolio, has taken
it to a price that has robbed it
of almost all its attractions for
the small investor.
Changed Broking Pattern
The pattern of business being
done on the Australian Stock
Exchanges is changing very
noticeably. Some brokers are
now dealing principally with
institutional clients, and have
fewer personal investors on
their books.
Often, too, large parcels' of
shares are sold “off the market”
to life-offices at a concessional
"Don't move — We've got you covered!"
rate. This is usually done at
the seller’s request in the belief
that to unload so many shares
at one time on the open
market would depress it below
the figure at which business is
transacted with the life-office.
Sometimes, again, brokers
will act as principals, and trade
in shares at a slight market loss
to themselves, but will more
than make it up out of the
commission they receive. This
taking of a slight market loss
to make it up on commission or
brokerage gained even extends
to the bond-market at times.
The unpopularity of Com-
monwealth securities as invest-
ments has tended to influence
testators in including sound
industrial or similar shares as
permissible trustee investments
in their estates. And the high
wool-cheques for most of the
post-war years have caused
many graziers to become
interested in Stock Exchange
equity-investments.
Now round about 10 U.K.
life-assurance offices are to
start writing business in Aus-
tralia. As they go along they
will be seeking Australian in-
vestments as an outlet for their
underwriting surpluses.
Fixed-trust Expansion
In addition, the Bank of
N.S.W. and the A.N.Z. Bank
have become interested in the
fixed-trust movement. This is
bound to have an effect on the
Stock Exchanges, too. With the
imprimatur of two of the lead-
ing banks, and with facilities
to invest extending through all
the branches of the ’Wales or
the A.N.Z. throughout Aus-
tralia, it is likely that the fixed-
trust business will gather
further momentum. Already it
is estimated that between £3O
million and £35 million is in-
vested in fixed-trusts in this
country.
The economy of Australia is
noticeably stirring in its
financial aspects. In addition
to w'hat has been mentioned
above, the overseas-controlled
Development Finance Corpora-
tion, Ltd., which directs Aus-
tralian Fixed Trust Pty., the
biggest in the unit-trust busi-
ness, has many other financial
irons in the fire ; and in Mel-
bourne the lan Potter group,
Australian United, is preparing
to establish a short-term
money-market, as well as
developing its merchant-
banking activities.
One immediately interesting
aspect of all this is that it is
happening at a time of acute
credit-stringency in Australia,
with the balance-of-trade going
against us and the outlook for
export prices the most dis-
couraging it has been for the
past 20 years.
It is particularly interesting
from the sharemarket point of
view'. In the top stocks, “the
chosen” of the share-lists, there
is an unprecedented share-
market boom. The mis-
fortunes of the lesser breeds
have so far had no influence
on the course of prices for
8.H.P., Woolworths and 1.C.1.
But from the point of view of
the smaller (private) investor,
blue-chip investments yielding
from 2.9 p.c. to 3.6 p.c. are
now rather too blue.
The First 1957-58 Accounts
"piRST 1957-58 accounts to be
published were the over-
seas-trade figures for Australia
itself. Subject to audit, they
were available on July 3, and
showed a favorable trade-
balance of only £28.4 million,
compared with a credit of £274
million for the previous boom
year.
Exports fell by £l7O million
to £B2l million. Imports rose
by £73 million to £792 million,
but )vere still below the ceiling
of £BOO million set by the
Government.
On “invisible items’’ —freight
and insurance charges, interest,
dividends transmitted, etc. —
there is expected to be a deficit
of £lBO million, which would
produce an adverse balance-of-
payments on current account of
£l5O million, which is the same
as the estimatedifall in the wool-
cheque. Capital-inflow is very
tentatively set at “in excess of
£lOO million,” which would
reduce the net deficit for the
year to under £5O million.
Australia entered the past
year in fairly high gear (in
terms of world trade). It has
passed out of it in low gear,
and 1958-59 threatens to be
more difficult than the year
which has just closed. The
import position will have to
be reviewed before long. It
may possibly tend to correct
itself by lower internal spend-
ing-power helping to reduce the
vacuum that sucks-in imported
goods. But while internal costs
remain high the trend will be
•for cheaper overseas goods to
surmount the tariff-wall.
Shares Go Still Higher
/~Yn the day that the full effect
of Australia’s trade-
reversal during 1957-58 was
published in the morning
papers, Stock Exchange prices
again went to steeper levels
following a very strong week.
Woolworths shares gave a
yield of only 2.9 p.c., 1.C.1. the
bare 3 p.c. and B.H.P. 3.6 p.c.
Technical market reasons for
this strong support of certain
Australian industrial shares are
given elsewhere in these pages.
But the private investor will
find, on analysis, that such
yields are too Low to live with
comfortably, even taking into
account probable capitai-
expansion by the companies
over the next few years.
The unit-trusts themselves,
which are partly responsible for


b.
k
L
iky
&
L
fc.
4.
?a5?
WaSHPIS !3®ifaD!D&?
/or convenience and safety carry
A.N.Z. Bank Travellers' Cheques
Follow the lead of experienced travellers. Wherever
you decide to go —in Australia or overseas —carry
your money in A.N.Z. Bank Travellers’ Cheques.
CONVENIENT because they can be readily cashed.
SAFE —in the event of loss, full refund will be made
promptly by the Bank.
Available at all branches of
A-N-Z
w
AN Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
aSBICOS2NV
the almost willy-nilly support
of these market-leaders, never-
theless find it necessary, in
order to attract support from
the smaller investor, to be
able to offer 6 p.c. or more from
their overall holdings. They
therefore have to include selec-
tions from many of the better
second-liners in order to make-
up the yield.
C.G.A.’s Market Debut
T'vealings in Commercial and
General Acceptance shares
began last week amid remark-
able enthusiasm.
The 2s. 6d.-paid shares of
this offshoot of the Commercial
Banking Co. of Sydney had
successive opening sales in Mel-
bourne at 55., 7s. and 6s. 6d. In
Sydney, C.G.A.’s home-town,
the market had made up its
mind much more rationally,
and after opening sales on
Wednesday at 6s. 9d. operations
varied between 6s. lOd. and
6s. 6d. On Thursday and
Friday Sydney sales varied be-
tween 6s. 7d. and 6s. 3d.
A present price of 6s. 6d
represents a paid-up cost of
9s. for a ss. share. The yield
at 9s. from a 10 p.c. dividend
would be £5 11s. per cent. From
a p.c. distribution the
yield would be £6 19s. per cent.
Custom Credit Corp.
(National Bank affiliations)
offers £5 17s. 6d. per cent,
at the present market. .Aus-
tralian Guarantee (’Wales)
yields £5 4s. per cent., Indus-
trial Acceptance (A.N.Z.)
£5 9s. 6d. per cent.
Yield from the Bank of
N.S.W. itself is 5 p.c., National
of Australasia 5 p.c., Commer-
cial of Sydney 5.5 p.c.
There is a fair amount of
sharemarket glamor attached
to h.-p. stocks at present. It
is unlikely that they will go
on making the almost geo-
metrical progression that seems
to be expected of them.
8 p.c. Notes at Premium
'T'wo recent issues of 8 p.c. un-
A secured notes have gone to
a good premium. The first was
Bradford Cotton’s 1964-66
issue (half-yearly interest pay-
able August 31), which has
been changing hands at
£lO6 10s. The other was Felt
and Textiles 1965 or 1968
issue. These securities (half-
yearly interest paid on June 15)
have been fetching around
£lO2, ex interest. With Cyclone
8 p.c. 1962’s (selling at above
£107) these issues are regarded
by the market as among the
more generous offerings in
recent years.
A.R.C. Aluminium
A fter having been beaten,
last year, to production of
aluminium foil in Australia by
a combination of other
interests, A.R.C. Industries,
Ltd., of Melbourne has come
up again this year with an
agreement in hand to make the
aluminium products, under
licence, of the Valley Metal
Products Co., of Michigan,
U.S.A. The U.S. co. is the
largest maker of aluminium
ventilator - windows in Aus-
tralia.
A.R.C., which began as a
maker of reinforcing material
for concreting work, has spread
its activities into the production
of heavy wire-mesh, fencing-
and barbed-wire, flyscreens and
wire-mesh containers. It sup-
plied all the reinforcing
material for the stadia at Mel-
bourne Olympics. In May,
1957, it took-over Agco, Ltd.-,
Sydney manufacturers of
aluminium fittings for the build-
ing trade, louvre windows, fly-
screens, etc. Interests have also
spread to Malaya and other
parts of the Pacific.
A.R.C. has a paid capital of
£1,315,544, including 2,431,088
10s. ord. shares. It has been a
vigorous 15 p.c. proposition,
with a one-for-one bonus-issue
in the 1956-57 term making the
rate worth 30 p.c. to old
holders. A couple of years ago
Cyclone attempted to take the
co. over, but the move was
resisted by A.R.C. directors,
and the bonus-issue followed
soon after.
The A.N.Z. Survey
Tn its quarterly survey, the
A.N.Z. Bank agrees that
Australia’s most testing period,
arising mainly out of the fall
in world prices, still lies ahead
of it.
Business activity in Aus-
tralia was maintained at a high
level during the financial year
just ended. However,, the
A.N.Z. says, in recent months
some unfavorable tendencies
have been evident, the most
significant of which have been
the adverse balance-of-pay-
ments, the decline in farm
incomes as a result of poor
seasonal conditions, lower
prices for rural products and
some rise in unemployment.
Although none of these
developments has been serious,
and the unemployment figure
is still low by comparison with
overseas countries, amounting
only to about 2 p.c. of the total
work-force, they are straws in
the wind which cannot with
safety be ignored.
The downward trend in
export-returns continued during
almost the whole financial
year. Australia’s export-
figures reflect the decline in
world commodity prices
which has been apparent
for some time in base metals,
dairy-products and wheat, and
which, in 1957-58, extended to
Australia’s main export item,
wool, which previously had
avoided the full brunt of the
decline. As a result, it now
appears certain that the final
figures will show an adverse
balance-of-payments for 1958-
59, although the prospective fail


A.C.A.
policies
are good
policies
for...
LIFE,
FIRE, ACCIDENT
& GENERAL
INSURANCES
get yours to-day!
THE
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
HEAD OFFICE:
VICTORIA:
QUEENSLAND:
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
WEST AUSTRALIA:
A.C.A. Buildina. 66 Kinq St., Sydney. 8X21&5.
O. J. Mooney. Managing Director.
A.C.A. Building, I 18-126 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 5706.
C. A. Adams, State Manager. v
A.C.A. Buildina, 270-272 Queen St., Brisbane. B 8529.
J. S. Groce, A.A.1.1., State Manager.
12 King William St., Adelaide. LA 1043.
P. J. Ryan, A.A.1.1., State Manager.
Warwick House, 63 St. George's Terrace, Perth. BA 681$.
0. S. O'Donogbue, State Manager.
In overseas currency resources
cannot be regarded as excessive,
Credit Expansion
The natural corrective of an
expansion of credit has already
been applied to offset the
adverse factors which had
appeared in the economy, and
to provide finance to rural
producers, some of whom had
been affected by Adverse
seasonal conditions. The ex-
pansion of trading-bank
advances in recent months has
been accompanied by pro-
gressive releases from the
special deposits of the trading-
banks with the central bank, to
provide the necessary funds to
finance this relaxation of
credit. It must not be assumed
from these developments, how-
ever, says the A.N.Z., that the
trading - banks are being
furnished with sufficient liquid
resources to enable them to
support a marked expansion of
credit. Rather, the central bank
has been releasing only enough
funds to enable the banks to
finance a moderate increase in
advances, designed to see that
their customers will be able to
carry on without unduly con-
tracting the level of their
activities.
The recent relaxation of
credit indicates that the central
bank is watching the position
closely, and is prepared to take
action to prevent any further
contraction of business, par-
ticularly at the time of the year
when the taxation-drain and
Treasury finance impose a
heavy burden on the business
community and the bankings
system.
Moreover, while some con-
cern is felt at the presence of
unemployment among us, the
general level of business
activity in Australia has, on the
whole, remained satisfactorily
high. This evidence of Aus-
tralia’s capacity to maintain
internal activity in the face of
a business-recession in major
overseas countries, particularly
the U.S.A., reveals the resili-
ency of the Australian
economy, brought about by
population - grbwth and
development.
Testing Time Ahead
Although the past financial
year has been a difficult one
for Australia, the real testing
time probably still lies ahead,
the A.N.Z. emphasises. The
new financial year seems likely
to be even more difficult than
the one just closed. The major
commodity - markets, particu-
larly for base metals and dairy-
products, show little sign of
improvement. Although wool
prices showed some recovery
toward the close of the season
from the low level reached in
May, there seems small like-
lihood, at present, of any
marked upward movement in
prices during 1958-59,
Moreover, there is, as yet,
no definite indication of any
improvement in business
activity in overseas countries,
particularly the U.S.A. Con-
tinued recession in the U.S.A,
would, almost inevitably, be
reflected in Australia through
its effect in depressing export
prices. It would thus call for
an active and progressive policy
at fiscal and monetary levels
to reduce taxation, stimulate
public-works activity, and
expand credit to prevent Aus-
tralia’s development from
suffering seriously through a
business recession.
The timing of such stimu-
lants is most important, says
the A.N.Z., and official correc-
tive action of this type tends,
usually, to suffer from the dis-
advantage of being imple-
mented too late. “However,
there has been an encouraging
improvement in the tone of the
Australian Economic Survey
for 1958, which, in comparison
with earlier White Papers,
shows less preoccupation with
the desire to restrict activity to
prevent inflation and a greater
awareness of the need to pro-
mote development and expan-
sion. If the recession overseas
continues, it will be necessary
for the correct official policy
to be put into effect forcefully,
and early enough, to stimulate
business and prevent recession
from unduly restricting activity
in Australia.”




SUNDRY
SH OWS
Stage and Music
“Peter Grimes”
Benjamin Britten’s saltwater
opera, chief novelty of the
Elizabethan Opera Company's
Brisbane season this year,
could never succeed without a
first-rate conductor at the helm
to pilot singers and orchestra
through the tricky shoals of
the score. The Trust’s new
musical director, Karl Rankl,
was just the man for the job,
keeping music and drama
tightly knit together, and
letting a gust of salty fresh air
into Australian opera.
The hero of the opera is a
fisherman who ill-treats his boy
apprentices, usually recruited
from the workhouse. The cur-
tain rises on the inquest into
the death of one of these lads.
When it finally descends
Grimes has taken his boat to
sea and scuttled it because a
second boy has died suspici-
ously. A grim story this, but
it is not entirely unrelieved.
Grimes loves Ellen Orford, the
village schoolmistress, and
some of his harshness seems
incidental to making enough
money to marry her. Yet,'
while Britten gives his hero a
softer side, he has written no
sensual music to make it cred-
ible. -The hulking Grimes has
no passion in his music, and
the schoolmistress is essentially
the motherly type.
Ronald Dowd played a
powerful and often moving
Grimes. His tenor was alert ,to
the taxing demands of the
music, and his final scene, with
a foghorn sounding far off,
mist swirling around, and the
gigantic shadows of his own
tormented body stark and
black against the backdrop,
was a triumph for singer, com-
poser and producer.
Robin Lovejoy has never
done a better opera production
than this. There is no fussiness
that might make singers forget
their notes, but there is a fresh-
ness and vitality that make it
easy to accept the life of the
fishing - village on - stage as
genuine. The character-acting
is on a high level, particularly
with Neil Easton’s confident
Balstrode, a retired skipper who
is a kind of father of the
people. Alan Light is a gloomy
lawyer, and Donald Smith is
very effective as a local fisher-
man, an enemy of Grimes and
spokesman for the crowd.
Most of the singers will have
to work even harder with the
text, though. It is no use cry-
ing for opera in English if you
miss the music because you
pnust strain after the words all
the time. Gloria McDonall
sang well as Ellen Orford, but
she had to cope with too many
passages important to the
action of the opera, and some
were so set musically as to be
unintelligible. This criticism
was made when the opera was
first produced in London and
New York, and the inference
is that the is partly
to blame.
That apart, the music makes
a strong impact. The effect
comes from the performance
as a whole rather than from
isolated arias and choruses.
But there is one memorable
pub-scene with a storm thun-
dering outside, the villagers
drowning their sorrows and the
gale, until Grimes bursts in
and sends a chill over the whole
company. Musically this is
eerily done.
The strength of the music
lies very much in the, orches-
tral part. There are four inter-
ludes in. which the orchestra
prepares the next scene musi-
cally while the stage-hands
perform their errands behind
a huge fishing-net which pro-
ducer Lovejoy very effectively
lowers over the stage. Karl
Rankl had the imagination to
make the orchestra play its big
part to the full, creating the
storms, the moonlight, the
scream of the gulls and above
all the sound of the sea that
washes around this village and
the odd assortment of charac-
ters the opera tries to bring
to life.
D. J. M.
Subscription Concert
The fifth subscription concert
at Sydney Town Hall was con-
ducted by Nicolai Malko, with
visiting bass William Warfield
as soloist in a bracket of
operatic excerpts.
To start things off, there
was Mozart’s “Don Giovanni”
Overture —a little gem, and
treated as it should be: all
light and shade and deliberate
understatement.
And then, Mozart in differ-
ent mood —his second-last
symphony, No. 40 in G
Minor.. Four movements: the
short, nervous theme in the
molto allegro section; the
andante , with its serene prin-
cipal subject, initiated by the
second-violins, moving into
essential discord with the first-
violins, before resolving i the
menuetto, in its context a
bitter march, full of boulder-
sized ironies, but, if considered
as a dytached composition, an
excursion into strict poly-
phony, with traces of the old
violin-masters in the contrast
section ; and finally an allegro,
tautly arpeggic in construc-
tion.
William Warfield sang, first
the aria “How I Trusted,”
from V e r d i’s “Ernani”:
clarity, perfect diction, but,
surprisingly in such a physi-
cally massive person, not
overmuch volume. Even in
the next, “Enemy of His
from Giordano’s
“Andrea Chenier,” Warfield
hardly let himself go —and the
rising surge in the closing
bars, when the orchestra
sweeps-up beneath the soloist
like the gradual opening of a
crescendo-pedal on a power-
ful pipe-organ, left one in two
minds: too much orchestra,
too little bass? Or simply not
enough voice volume? The
third item, the popular Verdi
“Credo” from “Otello,” was
much more in Warfield’s line
and he sang it really tenderly.
A.W.
Arthursts
The Hiroshima Panels
It is an extraordinarily happy
coincidence that the N. S.
Wales National Gallery should
still be exhibiting, simul-
taneously with the Hiroshima
panels, the travelling-exhibition
of drawings by Muirhead Bone
and Augustus John: for here,
at least in John, we have one
of the most sensitive and
spirited (if erratic) of English
draughtsman for comparison.
Disregarding the larger scale
and jnassed effect of horror
of the Hiroshima panels, dis-
regarding their political over-
tones and looking solely for
sensitivity of line (which is the
first and last test of excellence
in a black-and-white) the panels
must all be seen to fall very
far short of John’s most
brilliant artistry.
Taking for an exact basis of
comparison the panels of indi-
vidual portraits which accom-
pany the larger cartoons, not
one of them could seriously be
claimed to stand anywhere
near the class of John’s pencil-
portraits of James Joyce, T. E.
Lawrence, the' Canadian
soldiers or, particularly, the
magnificent drawing of Charles
Slade. The difference is in the
indefinable, unprovable things :
firmness ; sensitivity: but it is
there.
At least for the sake of argu-
ment it might be admitted—
for these Japanese drawings are
by no means to be summarily
dismissed that Muirhead
Bone’s stiff academic line is
about equally coarse. Yet it
remains a curious fact that, if
you look at it long enough,
Bone’s big pastel of barrage-
balloons, hard, literal and un-
imaginative as it is, actually
conveys a stronger impression
of horror than the panels—the
peculiar horrors, that of
the' 20th century. For these
gigantic litartian sausages are
clearly in the idiom of our
times, whereas the masses of
fleeing figures and piles of
naked corpses in the panels,
divorced from the excited cata-
logue, have no particular rela-
tion to atomic explosion at all.
They might equally well —and
equally coarsely—illustrate the
bombing of London, the rape
of Nanking or the fall of Troy.
They illustrate this the
general suffering of mankind
in war; or, with the catalogue,
the sufferings of Hiroshima —--
well enough. They are worth
seeing, and a great many people
have been seeing them. They
are effective cartoons. But,
artistically, it is enough—and
too much —to compare them
with Augustus John (or Lam-
bert) without going to Goya,
Rembrandt and Michelangelo
as so many critics have been
misled into doing by their
superficial similarity of subject-
matter.
Adelaide Shows
The South Australian Maude
Vizard-Wholohan art-competi-
tions for an oil of figures, a
watercolor and a print offer
really substantial prize-money,
which this year attracted many
inter-State entries. The S.A.
judges, with an impartiality
admirable but perhaps exces-
sive, awarded the oil prize
to Clifton Pugh, of Victoria,
the watercolor to Hector Gilli-
land, of N.S.W., and the print


mm
SB*
tm
INVEST FOR SECURITY
IN REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
6
p.a.. .uyrs
£286 Assets Backing for every
£ 100 invested.
PAID UP CAPITAL £9,000,000
V t.A.C. guarantees fixed quarterly
income free of exchange. Principal
paid in full before maturity
u pder cer ta in circumstances.
ASSETS EXCEED
£55,000,000
For full details, see Prospectus: your copy available from Members
of Stock Exchanges, 703 Branches of A.N.Z. Bank Limited
or LA.C. Branches.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LTD.
(Established 2B years)
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART • CANBERRA
• NEWCASTLE • WOLLONGONG • GEELONG
Underwriting Brokers:
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne,
Canberra and Sydney
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders:
The Perpetual Executors & Trustees Association
of Australia Limited
D 66
to another Victorian, Lesbia
Thorpe.
Pugh’s “The World of Shane
and Dailan” was a clear
winner, a picture both gentle
and harsh, where two dis-
tinctly disturbed children
inhabit a world of sharp rocks
and sharper birds’ beaks, soft-
ened by a few flowers. Pugh
handles his exciting subject
with accuracy and care, like
a loaded rifle.
J. Carington Smith’s
“Arrangement in Blue” —
whether male or female I
couldn’t decide provokes
admiration but chills any
other response, as happens so
often with this highly com-
petent artist’s work. Charles
Bush’s Chinese studies are at
the other extreme of com-
petence, tossing you raw
chunks of experience, sketches
disguised as finished paintings.
Two South Australian
painters, Margarita Stipnieks
and Juta Puust, handle paint
with great freedom and their
subjects with great tenderness.
In the eyes of anyone who
wants to come back many
times to a picture, their figure
studies are the most satisfy-
ing in the whole show.
GEOFFREY DUTTON.
Films
“The Prince and the Show-
girl”
No doubt because of
Laurence Olivier’s direction,
Marilyn Monroe shows-up
much better than usual in this
lightweight comedy about a
Regent of a Balkan comic-
opera kingdom who goes to
London for King George V’s
Coronation and spends a few
hectic days, and nights, mixing
palace intrigue and an affair
with an American variety show-
girl.
Miss Monroe does her best
work in -scenes where she
flounders in small-talk, and
Olivier, looking strikingly like
a life-size, animated double of
Eddie Bergin’s ventrilo.quial
doll Charliei McCarthy,
monocle and all, sweeps with
no little elan through the role
of the autocratic father of the
boy-king, who applies a sort of
protocol to his extra-marital
affaires and always likes to keep
them in the right perspective.
At Sydney Mayfair.
♦♦♦ ♦jf
“Seven Hills of Rome”
Any film with tenor Mario
Lanza in it must have as its
plot-basis his “discovery” as a
singer, with goggle-eyed audi-
ences at night-club or variety-
hall gazing enraptured as the
welkin-buckler rushes up to a
spectacular high C. With every
film he makes, Lanza leans
more heavily On flamboyancy
than art for his effects. And
the most efficient way he can
burn-out his basically good
robust tenor is to keep on
subjecting it to unnatural
strains, as he does in this opus,
by giving imitations of
“Satchmo” Armstrong and
other husky-voiced yawperS
for allegedly comic effects.
The story gives the good old'
triangle another solid work-
out, the women being the
wealthy, cold-hearted one who
would amuse herself with him
and the dewy-eyed one who
yearns for him in secret but
is unable to get in the clinch
until a few hundred feet from
the final fade-out.
At Sydney St. James.


/
/
/
/
r
"vv^.
QUftHSIMD
SOM*
<<
cp
Australia’s
fastest growing State
OFFERS YOU
this peak-interest, gilt-edged
INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITY!
Invest in Queensland where continued,
vigorous progress is assured! Invest in the
State’s biggest secondary industry electric
power and gain the benefits of high interest
and complete security.
THE STATE
ELECTRICIT
LOAN
COMMISSION
OF QUEENSLAND
GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
O £5.7.6% highest interest rate in Australia for a
Government guaranteed security.
O Short, medium or long term —5, 10 or 20 years.
• Interest paid half yearly FREE OF EXCHANGE.
• You may deposit 10% and pay balance in three
equal instalments by 30th Sept., 1958.
• Loan securities are negotiable and may be converted
to cash at any time.
LOAN CLOSES NOT LATER THAN 16th JULY, 1958.
/APPLY NOW THROUGH:
• The Commonwealth
Trading Bank
• Australia and New
Zealand Bank Ltd.
Any Stockbroker, or
Electricity Commission
Gregory Terrace. Brisbane
• Bank of New South
Wales
The Commercial Bank-
ing Co. of Sydney Ltd.
direct- to the State-
of Queensland,
Underwritten by
). ft. Were & Son


u
CD
GO
GO
CD
■
CD
GO
GO
CD
GO
- -O
FO?
o'3
The Trustees Executors & Agency
COMPANY ITS.
•Mrp.r«tW la Victoria ia 1171
TRW. 34
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets and other factors may affect
the intentions expressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desirable that yon
consult your solicitor and have your Will revised periodically to meet
changing conditions. '
At the same time, consider the advantages of appointing The Trustees
Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. as your Executor. Its appointment gains
for your Estate, at a fixed and moderate charge, the services of a company
with over three-quarters of a century’s specialised experience in the
Administration of Estates.
★ Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly with
some trusted relative or friend.
+ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLI6H STREET, SYDNEY.
Capltal (paid and uncalled) and Reserve}, [972,512.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., Y.D. (Chairman): W. Sydney Jones;
J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman, D.S.O , M.C., V.D.; W. E. M.
Campbell; T. L. Webb.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., <?.C. J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
K.E.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Hener; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Porter.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Mutual Life and Citizens’
IN addition to immediate protection, life-
assurance offers the assured an oppor-
tunity to benefit, through reversionary
bonuses, from the skilful investment of
assurance funds. From this angle in par-
ticular, assurance has proved an attrac-
tive form of investment in recent years,
the general strengthening of interest-rates'
being reflected by a steady increase m
bonus-rates.
In the case of the Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance, bonus-rates have
risen by at least 50 p.c. since 1952, and
under a few M.L.C. policies by as much
as 100 p.c., last term seeing the fourth
increase in rates in the past five years.
One of the largest of the Australian
life-offices, • the M.L.C. writes ordinary,
industrial and accident policies in Aus-
tralia, New Zealand, Canada and the
U.K. The first of the major life-offices
to follow the trading-banks into the hire-
purchase field, the M.L.C. announced
last month that it had taken up 4,000,000
ss. ords. in Alliance Holdings, Ltd.,
giving it a 44.4 p.c. share-interest in that
co. However, while the limited scope
allowed the trading-banks, as such, in-
fluenced their moves in, this direction,
the M.L.C.’s decision would appear to
have been prompted, mainly, by the
attractiveness of the shareholding as an
investment. Alliance Holdings is expected
to pay a 15 p.c. div. out of last term’s
earnings, divs. being tax-free irrthe hands
of corporate investors such as the M.L.C.
Sound finances, prudent management
and a moderate expense-rate have
enabled the M.L.C. to maintain a promi-
nent position in the assurance field for
many years, a flood of new business over
the last decade lifting annual income
from £8.7 million to £25 million:
1947. 1957.
New business* .. . „£28,603,077 £72,401,953
Annual incoroet .. .. 8,743.153 25,066,519
Business in force .. •• 174,744,101 525,470,002
Total assets 54,949,189 148,881,082
* Ordinary and industrial combined. f Excluding
taxation, but including tax refund.
Of the 1,624,010 policies, assuring £525.4
millions, in force at December 31 last,
637,266, assuring £426.4 million, were on
the books of the ordinary department.
A record £72.4 million (up £4 million)
of new business was written last term,
£60.7 million relating to O.D. contracts
and the balance to industrial policies.
Premium income of the two departments
jumped by £1.2 million to £18.6 million,
and total income, after deducting rates,
taxes, etc., by £2.1 million to £25 million/
A feature of the new business was a
substantial increase in the volume of
whole-of-life contracts, this class of policy
accounting for 29 p.c. of all new business,
compared with 23 p.c. in the previous
term:
Ordinary Life Department.
Ex- Written " Added
Dec., Income, t Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1954
From currency revaluation, £180,146 1
From (ax refund, £27,000 .. I _ , fi i
13,397,803 3,803,519 1,727,094 84,136 f
To staff fund, £62,839 .. ..)
1955
15,127,627 4.168,607 2,002,903 21,303 ) 0 ,„ 7
To staff fund, £70,387 .. . . J
1956 ]
From tax refund, £6135 .. .. Imnyrnsq
16,875,793 4.519,681 2,160,068 48,091 f
To staff fund, £78,035
1957
18,771,662 5.390,067 2,390,827 89,250 10,815,349
To staff fund, £86,169 .. . . J
Industrial Life Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dec., Incomef Claims.* penses. Off.' Funds.
££■ £ £ £
From currency revaluation, £109,837 ]
From tax refund, £33,000... .. |
’54..4,745.384 1,630,985 1,050,397 39,235 j 2,054,943
To staff fund, £22,661 .. .. |
/ To general blanch, £60.000 .. ..J
From tax refund. £7064 .. .. |
*55..5,018,436 1,793.942 1.149,374 10,265 1 .. ooc 11t
To staff fund, £23,805 .. ..f I.JJb, 114
To general branch, £50,000 ..]
From tax refund, £1256 .. .. |
’56..5,390,646 2.138,605 1,204,373 28,579 I 0 . 0 c „ 0
To staff fund, £25,523 ' .. . . [
To general branch, £35,000 .. .. J
’57..5,518,310 1,244,196 29,956]
To staff fund, £25,963 .. .. [ 1,858,407
To general branch, £40,000 . . J
t After deducting taxes. * Including shareholders’
_ proportion of profits.
The mortality-rate was well within expec-
tations, and the ratio of expenses to
net premiums only a shade higher at
16.23 p.c. (up sd. p.c.) O.D. and 28.06 p.c.
(up Bs. lOd. p.c.) I.D. After meeting
claims and expenses, writing £119,206
(up £42,536) off the value of securities
and sending £112,132 to the staff funds
and £40,000 to general reserve, a sub-
stantial £12.6 million was added to the
assurance funds.
Bonuses allotted to policyholders come
from the excess of assurance funds over
actuarial liabilities (the latter calculated
on a stringent 2\ p.c. basis in the O.D.
and 2 p.c. in the £4.5 million of
last term’s £4.7 million surplus being
used to provide for reversionary bonuses
with an ultimate value of £7.6 million:
Surplus; •
19-34. 1953. 1936. 19-57.
£ £ £ £
Ordinary .. 2,615-,541 2,952.165 3.575,428 4,077,220
Industrial.. 442,862 518,741 605,800 674,703
Total .. 3,058,403 3,470,906 4,181,228 4,751,923
The margin between the actual earning-
rate on assurance funds and the rates
assumed in calculating policy-liabilities
was further improved, the net rate of
interest earned on the O.D. fund rising
by Is. 6d. p.c. to a pleasing £4 11s. .4d.
p.c. A considerably heavier provision
for taxation clipped Is. 9d. p.c. off the
net return (£4 3s. 3d. p.c.) from the
smaller I.D. fund.
In the general branch, which works for
shareholders, the surplus was £161,046,
or 16.1 p.c. on the £1,000,000 share-
capital. Shareholders, who may partici-
pate in up to 15 p.c. of the divisible
earnings of the life departments, guaran-
tee to conduct the ordinary department
at an expense-rate no greater than 15 p.c.
of its total income, similar provisions
applying to the I.D. side of the business.
The div.-rate was raised from 26| p.c.
to 27£ p.c. last term, and at the higher
rate of distribution the unlisted f.-p. £1
ords. would return £3' 13s. 4d. at 150 s.
During the term the M.L.C. opened
new buildings in Adelaide, Perth,
Ballarat, Launceston and Geelong as well
as occupying the huge £4-million head-
office at North Sydney—the largest com-
mercial building in Australia.
The year’s growth in net assets was


£12.8 million, changes in the investment-
pattern promising to keep interest-earn-
ings (and bonus-rates) at a high level:
1956. p.c. 1957. p.c.
Government securi-
ties, etc.* .. £56,788,485 42.1 £58,655,940 39.1
Mortgages . . 40,911,689 30.4 45,238,723 30.1
Loans, building
societies . . 5,674,804 4.2 6.560,073 3.T
Loans on policies 8,979,895 2.9 4,616,180 3.1
Shares other cos. 7,255,929 5.4 7,884,363 5.3
Debentures and
notes .. 10,160,971 7.5 13,387,456 9.0
Freeholds, etc. 7,537,101 5.6 11,000,816 7.4
Book-debts, ete. 2,457,184 1.9 2,537,526 1.7
£134,766,058 £148,881,082
Liabilitiesf .. 6,186,735 7,480,559
Net assets ..£128,579,823 £141,400,523
* Includes municipal and public bodies. f Other
than under policies.
As a percentage of total assets, shares,
debentures and notes rose from 12.9 p.c.
to 14.3 p.c. and freeholds, etc., from
5.6 p.c. to 7.4 p.c. Mortgages were
steady at 30.4 p.c., but low-yield Govern-
ment securities slipped from 42.1 p.c. to
39.4 p.c. Ten years ago 8.1 p.c. of the
co.’s assets were in the form of Govern-
ment securities.
Swan Brewery Co., Ltd.
Parent and Subsidiaries.
r Dividends ,
Year Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar. Profit.* 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.f
81. £ £ p.c. £ £ £
1954.. 763 3000 8.3 = 214.651 74,112 2,677,795
Profit sale assets, £4072 .. .. 2,681,867
Share premium's, £84,740 .. .. 2,766,607
Tax overprovided, £13,192 .. .. 2,779,799
Unexplained addition, £150,999 .. 2,930,793
1955.. 541 3000 9.16 = 278,485 17,056 2,947,854
Profit sale assets, £3964 ... .. 2,951,818
Share premiums, £84,740 .. 8,036,558
Unexplained addition, £119,526 .. 3,156,084
1956.. 339.294 3000 10 = 342,320 3,150,058
Unexplained addition, £110,726 .. 3.260,784
Profit sale assets, £4756 .. .. 3,265,540
1957.. 3000 10 = Ji’ 3,246,888
Unexplained addition, £13,364 .. 3,260,252
Profit sale assets, £9343 .. .. 3,269,595
1958.. 388.411 3000 10 = 342,321 43,090 3,312,685
* After eliminating outside interests,
f Excludes depreciation reserve, £1,423,167 at
31/3/’SB.
Tyro unexplained additions this trip?
However, take note of the sharply
increased item in the balance-sheet under
the label of “tax-provision.” Like all
breweries, universal whipping-boys be-
cause of the power they wield in “the
trade,” this Westralian displays a per-
haps understandable reluctance to lay all
its cards on the table. But nobody is
misled by the accounting methods which
fail to disguise the real nature of the co.’s
earning-power.
As the above table shows, Swan’s con-
solidated net earnings for the term ended
April 1 show a visible gain of £61,742,
following the slight setback recorded in
the previbus year. To arrive at the
£388,411 profit shown, profit-and-loss was
charged with £229,896 (up £28,818) for
depreciation on fixed assets and £349,458
(up £21,595) for company-tax. AlO p.c.
distribution was repeated for the third
year in succession and looks to have an
air of permanency, despite the moderate
carry-over to visible reserves after the
preference and, ordinary divs. had
absorbed their £345,341.
For the past three terms, Swan, to its
credit, has taken its supporters into its
confidence to the extent of showing the
income-tax provided for annually, and
the following table is perhaps instructive,
even if it does suggest that the computa-
tion of visible earning-rates on capital is
no more than a formal exercise:
Pre-tax Profit. Tax. Net Profit.
1956 .. £698,865 £339,294 £369,571
1957 .. 654,532 326,669 327,863
1958 737,889 388,411 349,468
Intriguing, also, is the growth year by
year of thet. balances from trading, and
freehold and leasehold rent accounts.
Increases in excise levied on beer may
mean a check to public consumption, but
the breweries are usually able to add a
little to their profit-margins while the
Treasury is holding the thick end of the
stick:
1951 .. £650,365 | 1955 .. £1,786,271
1952 .. 639,486 I 1956 .. 2,047,695
1953 .. 726,714 1957 , .. 2,046,606
1954 .. 873,994 [ 1958 .. 2,488,663
During the year Melbourne-controlled
Swan, and Carlton and United Brewery,
which also has its headquarters in the
southern city, were both busily erecting
vbreweries in Darwin, but, since the effec-
tive thirst of the N.T. is proportional to a
European population which doesn’t ex-
ceed 20,000, this looks like a fine piece
of long-range planning on the part of
both cos.
A tactical move on the part of Swan
was the purchase on undisclosed terms
of the Don Hotel and the taking-up of
a 20-year lease of the Hotel Darwin. The
northern outpost at present has four
licensed bistros.
In the distant past Swan and Carlton
were under a united command, but the
extent to which they have drifted apart
was revealed in 1957, when negotiations
at board level to undertake a joint ven-
ture in the north were abruptly termi-
nated following Carlton’s sudden
announcement to the press of its inten-
tion to go it alone in Darwin.
The current activity shows-up in the
consolidated balance-sheet:
Paid capital— 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref £50,000 £50,000 £50,000
' Ord 3,423,208 3.423.208 ' 3,423.2 >8
Reserves .. .. 3,150,058 3,246,888 3.312,685
Depreciation res... 1,040,245 1,213,606 1,423,167
Outside interests.. 23,401 24,290 23,490
Overdraft .. .. 176,099 494.498
Creditors, ete. .. 220,993 244,144 230,254
Tax provision .. * 471,608 478.607 628,190
Final divs. .. 172,660 172,660 174,160
£8,552,173 £9.029.502 £9,759,652
Freeholds.. .. 4.532.946 4,810,171 4,974,857
Plant, etc. . . 2,878.938 3,159.877 3,680,265
Stocks .. .. 662,780 678,191 613,196
Debtors .. .. 396,092 338,109 408,472
Cash, etc 81,417 43,154 76,862
£8,552,173 £9.029,502 £9,759,652
Beer doesn’t-keep indefinitely, and the
quick turnover associated with this class
of business nullifies the general principles
relating to working-capital. Increases
in funds by way of reserves, depreciation-
reserve, bank-overdraft and tax-provisions
were balanced on the assets side, inter
alia , by net additions of £691,074 to fixed
assets, and of £70,363 to book-debts.
Paid capital, £3,473,208, which includes
£50,000 in 6 p.c. prefs., was brought to
its present stature by a two-for-one
bonus-issue in 1951 and a one-for-three
cash issue in 1954, when 3,389,581 ss.
ords. were offered to shareholders at Is.
premium.
The end of the term saw the 13,692,832
ss. ords. each covered by visible net
tangible assets of 9s. 9d. 'on consolidated
book-values, and last we?k the scrip sold
at 9s. 6d. for a yield of £5 ss. 6d. p.c.
A mighty £134 12s. covers each 20s. pref.
Mark Foy’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
A nother city retailer to be confronted
with a decline in store-traffic over
the last couple of years, Sydney’s Mark
Foy’s, Ltd., is still pondering over the
problem, common to many city retailers,
of whether or not to move into suburban
centres in an attempt to recapture some
of the business lost to those areas.
An old-established trader, Mark Foy’s
was founded in 1885, the public’s share-
interest in the business dating back to
1909. At present the co.’s only retail out-
let is a large freehold department-store
bounded by Elizabeth, Castlereagh and
Liverpool streets. Of the £813,269 paid
capital (unchanged for 23 years), £272,902
carries a fixed 6 p.c., the balance being
in f.-p. £1 ords.
Quoted by chairman H. M. Macken at
last week’s annual " meeting, estimates
made by the Cumberland County Coun-
cil,’ relating to Sydney and environs, indi-
cate that in the eight years ended 1957
suburban retailers increased their share of
total retail trade from 48 p.c. to 64 p.c. —
a loss to city traders which appears to
have been felt most keenly by cos. operat-
ing in the less-crowded sections of
Sydney. Mark Foy’s falls into this cate-
gory, and, after a period of buoyant
trading, the co.’s earnings have dropped
by 46 p.c. over th'e last three terms, the
effects of a weakness in turnover being
aggravated by rising expenses.
The Mark Foy’s directorate is reported
to have given “very close consideration”
to proposals for the erection of suburban
branches, despite the fact that this step is
said to involve a capital-outlay “out of
proportion to the available business.”
Alternative schemes, designed to
strengthen the city trade, have also been
considered, but, regardless of the board’s
decision, the chairman, quite understand-
ably, expects that the level of the co.’s
earning will continue to be determined by
the; results of the city store.
A strong demand for TV-receivers and
an improved showing by the manufac-
turing-departments failed to counter the
“general trading weakness” experienced
by the co. last term (to February 28).
Although the variation in turnover isn’t
disclosed, a “heavier-thdn-normal dis-
counting of stocks” helped to trim-back
gross earnings (£1,301,457) by £9969,
while substantial increases in State and
municipal taxes appear to have had a
considerable bearing on the final result,
land-tax, rates and payroll-tax claiming
a total of £106,155 (up £35,426).
Written after setting aside £19,282
(down £535) for depreciation, an unspeci-
fied amount for taxation and £IO,OOO
(down £5000) for staff-funds, long-service
leave, etc., net profit slipped by £7396 to
£88,421?:
, Dividends
■ Pref. To Re— Re-
Feb., Profit. C p.e. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £7OO .. .. 563,290
1954.. 16.374 124 p.c. = 67,546 49,247 612,537
_. Unexplained addition, £875 . . . 613,412
1955- 16,374 15 - p.c. = 81,054 66,439 679.851
Unexplained addition, £1282.. .. 681.133
1956- 16,374 124 p.c. = 67.546 50,986 732,119
Unexplained addition, £230 .. 732,349
1957.. 95,825 16,374 124 p.c. = 67,546 11,905 744,254
Profit sale assets. £4365 .. .. 748,619
1958- 88,429 16,374 10 p.c. = 54,037 18,018 766,637
Dropped from 15 p.c. to 12i p.c. in 1956,


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BI T HI
WEARS A
NEO-
BA RUE RE
No Pads —
No Springs
The nbo - BAR
rlre acts like
a hand when
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, control
your hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced bv
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
iiave tried it.
H'rife today for Free Literature
tinrrere IkiKtrihntinn Company
Dept. 3d, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
NL.
m
Every professional
man owes it to him-
self and his family to
enquire about “Table
32.”
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD. (Inc. in Qld., 1895)
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
INCOME
PROTECTION
for
Professional
Men
PERSONAL
ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS
INSURANCE
the ord. div.-rate was further
reduced to 10 p.c. last term,
the earnings, after satisfying
pref.-shareholders, equalling a
return of 13.3 p.c. on ord.
capital, compared with 14.7,
21.9, 27.5 and 21.6 p.c. over
the four years back to 1954.
Share-capital is well sup-
ported by reserves, both visible
and otherwise, freeholds going
into the accounts on a modest
cost - less - depreciation basis.
The board’s cautious approach
to the question of branch-
stores springs partly, no doubt,
from a desire not to disturb,
unnecessarily, the comfortable
financial structure:
Paid capital— 1957. 1958.
Fret £272,902 £272.902
Ord 540,367 540,367
Reserves .. .. 744,254 766,637
Overdraft . . .. 221,572 395,971
Sundry creditors* 359,765 364,410
Tax reserve . . 123,942 60,546
Final diva. .. 41,960 35,206
£2,304,762 £2,436,039
Property .. .. 846,761 841,370
Plant, etc. .. 90,000 95,000
Shares, etc. .. 3,990 1 5,340
Stocks .. ..1,086,971 1,058,128
Book debts .. 267,309 426,673
Cash, etc... .. 9,731 9.528
£2,304,762 £2,436,039
* Includes internal provisions, etc.
The co. finances its own time-
payment and hire-purchase
transactions, and an expansion
of credit facilities, especially
in connection with the sale of
television-receivers, is reflected
(along with a £23,034 increase
in prepayments and an earlier
payment of income-tax) by
the £174,399 jump in the over-
draft and a £159,364 increase
in book-debts.
Although the chances of a
marked recovery in the cur-
rent term seem slight, trade
during the first four months
of the term is reported to have
been “somewhat better than
last year,” and the improve-
ment in turnover and gross
earnings expected by the board
should, at least, halt the
decline in earnings.
Each f.-p. £1 ord. was sup-
ported by. net tangibles of 48s.
4d. (book-values) at balance-
date, the scrip returning £5
17s. Bd. p.c. from a 10 p.c.
distribution at 345.
Union Trustee Cp.
A lthough commissions col
lected by the 73-year-old
and solidly-entrenched Union
Trustee Co. of Australia
reached a, record figure last
term, expenses rose at an even
faster rate and a higher invest-
ment income was largely
responsible for the improve-
ment in net earnings.
Trustee cos. carry-out a wide
range of varied and complex
services for a moderate charge,
and, while the Union’s profit
last term was the highest for
28 years, it represented a
return of little more than 7 p.c.
on average shareholders’ funds.
As the rates of commission
charged by trustee cos. are, in
many cases, limited by statute,
earnings are dependent, mainly,
on the volume of trust business,
the level of expenses and the
return from the co.’s own in-
vestments. Share-capital is
usually represented by statutory
guarantee-funds and Govern-
ment securities or freeholds. As
a result, shareholders in a
soundly financed co., such as
the Union, enjoy a high degree
of security in times of reason-
ably stable money-values, but,
on the whole, their rewards are
no more than commensurate
with the risks involved.
One of Australia’s largest
corporate trustees, the Union
operates in Victoria, New
South Wales and Queensland,
where —with a long experience
in pastoral business behind
it —the co. acts as trustee,
administrator, guardian and
argent. The Union is also
interested in the Central Share
Registry of Australia, an
organisation formed several
months ago by a group of Vic-
torian trustees to maintain
share-, debenture- and note-
registers on behalf of public
cos.
Paid capital, £137,500, is in
50s. ords. paid to 275. 6d., all
but 2s. 6d. of the uncalled
amount being in the nature of
a reserve callable only in the
event of liquidation.
The Union doesn't broadcast
the value of the assets entrusted
to its care, but since the. 1953
term, during which the rates'of
commission on new business
were increased for the first
time in over 50 years, commis-
sions received have risen by
over 27 p.c.
Over the year to February
28 last the co. collected an
additional £22,217 in commis-
sions (£338,159), gross rents
and interest from investments
increasing by £4689 to
£31,956:
Commissions, Exes. p.c.
Interest, etc. Exes. Earnings.
1953 ..£281,965 £274,497 97.3
1954 .. 291.176 281,133 96.5
1955 .. 308.328 294,102 95.4
1956 .. 320,532 307,060 95.8
1957 .. 343,209 328,070 92.6
1958 .. 370,115 353,220 95.4
Including provision for taxa-
tion (up £2313 at £16,454) and
the year’s outlay on new office-
furniture, motor-vehicles, etc.
(up £283- at £5013), expenses
made-off with an extra £25,150
and, at £353,220, absorbed 95.4
p.c. of total income, as against
92.6 p.c. in the preceding year.
However, the improvement,
in income was sufficient to
offset the higher expense-rate
and leave net earnings £1756
stronger at £16,895, at which
figure they equalled a return of
12.3 p.c. on paid capital, com-
pared with 11, 9.8 and 10.3 p.c.
over the three years back to
1955:
To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. , —Dividends— N serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
’53.. 7,468 6 p.c. = 8,250 91.642
’54..10,043 7 „ „ 9,625 418 92,060
’55..14,226 8 „ ~11.000-3,226 95,286
’56..13,472 8 „ „ 11,000 2,472 97,758
’57..15,139 8 ~ .; 11,000 4,139 101,897
To prov. long-service leave,
£14,000 87.897
’68..16,895 9 p.c. = 12.375 4,520 92,417
Dividend-cheques were a little
fatter, too, the div.-rate being
raised from 8 p.c. to 9 p.c. (the
highest level since 1931), to give
an average rate of 7.3 p.c., on
an unchanged capital, over the
past decade. The board went to
reserves for £14,000 in order
to provide against the long-
service leave due to senior
members of the staff. * Long-
service leave accruing to other
employees has been charged
against earnings.
At February 28 last the
Union reckoned its total assets
at £281,896 (cash and
guarantee - deposits, £77,260,
freeholds, £202,674, book-
debts, etc., £1962), provisions
for final div., taxation (an
ample £31,000) and long-service
leave, etc., leaving shareholders’
funds at £229,917, equal to 325.
for each £ of paid capital.
The co.’s prospects of main-
taining the 9 p.c. div.-rate in
the current term seem reason-
ably bright; the upward trend
of costs remaining as the main
threat to earnings, but the
sharemarket sees little im-
mediate scope for capital-
appreciation and prices the
scrip at 31s. 3d., to return
£7 18s. 6d. p.c. from a 9 p.c.
distribution.
Passiona Bottling Co.
(Sydney), Ltd.
To Re- Re-t
April Profit. Dividends, serves, sen es.
30, £ £ '£ £
Profit sale fixed assets. £BO .. 80
1952.. 402* Nil 402 542
Profit sale fixed assets, £0 .. 548
Deficit.
W/off prelim, expenses, £723 175
Reserves.
1953.. 5983 5 p.c. = 3750 2233 2,058
Profit sale fixed assets, £40.. 2.098
W/off prelim, expenses, £lOOO 1.098
1954.. 7816 6 p.e. =6OOO 1816 2,914
W/off prelim, expenses, £l5OO 1,414
1955.. 6836 5 p.c. =3750 3086 4,500
Profit sale assets, £7757 .. 12,257
1956.. 432 Nil 432 12,689
From cap. resenes written-off
new premises, .. .. 10,636
1957.. 822 Nil 822 11,458
1958.. 10.801.10p.c.=10,000 801 12,259
* Nine months. 1 Subject to intangibles,
£2500 at April 30, 1958.
Tt has been a Spartan-broth
diet for those whose appe-
tites, whetted by the well-laden


First mortgage debenture stock
SHORT TERM
5%
PER ANNUM
12 months 5%
9 . . . 4i%
6 .. . 4%
3 ... 3*%
GENERAL CREDITS LIMITED offers first mortgage
debenture stock on long or short term basis. Cumulative
stock carrying 65% compounded on early rests with
currencies of 5 to 15 years.
Interest is paid quarterly free
of exchange.
Investors wishing to withdraw
earlier than the specified
term may do so in accordance
with the conditions described
in the prospectus.
PROSPECTUS:
Bankers are the Commercial
Bank of Australia Limited,
from whom the prospectus
is available and from
Members of the Stock Ex-
change and Company Offices,
corner Pitt and Goulburn
Streets, Sydney.
BROKERS: J. B. WERE & SON
Thi* is not a prospectus and does not constitute
an invitation to subscribe
103091
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription 22/6
Cottee’s Passiona table, in-
duced them to put the £75,000
of public money into this soft-
drink bottling offshoot back
in 1951. Seven terms of opera-
tions have resulted in a mean
annual profit of £4736, and the
sporadic div.-payments have
averaged only 3.7 p.c. during
the same period, In the mean-
time, earning-rates on an aff-
ord. capital have sawtoothed
thus—o. 4 p.c. (1952), 6, 7.8,
6.8, 0.4, 0.8, 10.8 p.c. (1958).
Last year, however, a mild
dry winter, followed by a
thirsty summer, titivated
Passiona’s turnover-totals and
earnings to the extent of
enabling the board to sanction
a 10 p.c. distribution, the
highest to date, and the first
for three years. This perhaps
significant liberality took nearly
the entire net profit of £lO,BOl
(£S22 in 1957), which was
carried-down after £BBB7
(£9433) had been allowed for
depreciation and £6OOO (£433)
provided for taxation. That the
relative improvement was con-
sidered at least in part
seasonal is shown by the form
of the dividend, which includes
a 2| p.c. bonus.
The crux of the matter
seems to be that Passiona, like
the interneciary soft-drink
industry as a whole, is carry-
ing a surfeit of equity-capital,
even though it does run to a
mere £lOO,OOO. This, taken
together with a longish tail of
intangibles, and the rather un-
steady rate of reserve-building,
makes the ss. scrip a specu-
lative proposition at the
present sharemarket valuation
of 4s. 9d. the same shares
were quoted at 2s. sd. last year.
One thing in the co.’s favor is
the very high quality of its pro-
ducts.
As a membpr of a loosely-
knit and strictly-zoned con-
federation which came into
being at the behest of the well-
padded godparent, Cottee’s
Passiona, Ltd. (now Cottees,
Ltd.), Passiona Bottling holds a
franchise in perpetuum from
that organisation to bottle and
market throughout the County
of Cumberland, excluding
certain defined outlying areas,
carbonated drinks made from
syrups and juices supplied by
Cottees. No doubt that this
has been a happy arrangement
for the principal, which has
similar set-ups elsewhere in
the Commonwealth.
There are no royalties pay-
able under the terms of the
agreement, which was clinched
by the allotment to Cottees of
100,000 deferred shares, rank-
ing after the ordinaries in the
event of a wind-up and partici-
pating in dividends only after
the publicly held shares have
received 6 p.c., after which
they are on equal terms.
Voting rights are the same for
both classes.
Until 1956, Passiona
Bottling was run as an annex
of the Cottee’s Passiona fac-
tory at Leichhardt, N.S.W., but
after that date operations were
transferred to Beaconsfield.
The freeholds acquired are
shown at cost in the
accounts:
1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Reserves .. .. 11,458 12,259
Mortgage .. .. 14,500 14,000
Overdraft 3,324
Creditors .. .. 12,106 8,234
Tax provision .. 817 6,004
Dividends .. .. 10,000
£138,881 £153,821
Land, buildings .. 31,975 36,244
Plant, vehicles .. 50,637 46,588
Stocks .. 25,660 25,835
Debtors ~ .. 6,255 5,154
Cash, etc 354 15,000
Intangibles .. 2.5,000 25,000
£138,881 £153,821
Inner strength is no more
obvious in the balance-sheet
than visible reserves. One of
the problems of this class of
business is delivering the goods,
and transport equipment leads
a fast life, making depreciation
a costly item. Outside funds
at April 20 accounted for only
27 p.c. of total equities, and
floating assets comprised
mainly stocks or deposit loans.
On book-values at balance-
date the ss. ordinaries each had
a net tangible asset backing of
ss. lOd.
Wellington Alluvials, Ltd.
Shareholders in Wellington
Alluvials, Ltd., will be
asked, later this week, to
approve a resolution that the
co. be wound-rup.
A gold-dredging concern, in
which B.H.P. has a large share-
interest, Wellington Alluvials
ceased operations on the auri-
ferous flats of the Macquarie
River (N.S.W.) last May. Re-
turns have been unsatisfactory
in recent months, and the re-
coverable grade of reserves is
estimated to be “much lower”
than the 2.6 grains per cu. yd.
necessary to meet current
dredging costs. A net loss of
£62,426 was incurred during the
year to April 30 last.
At balance-date accumu-
lated losses exceeded reserves
by £79,367. The extent to
which a £55,714 provision for
deferred expenditure exceeds
the cost of restoring dredged
lands and the amount received
for the co.’s dredge, etc. (in the
books, at £79,228) will be the
main factors in determining the
return to shareholders.
Since the co. was formed
in 1936 it has paid div.’s total-
ling £229,167 on a paid capital
of £250,000. Sellers were ask-
ing Byd. for the f.-p. 2s. shares,
at the end of last week.


N.Z’s Greedy Budget
Wellington, June 30.
"IVTew Zealand’s new Labor
Minister of Finance, Mr.
Nordmeyer, has shocked the
country with the greediest
Budget in its history.
A storm of protest is raging
from one end of the islands
to the other. It is hard to
find anyone who has a good
word to say for the Govern-
ment’s proposals. Even the
president of the Federation of
Labor, Mr. F. P. Walsh, seems
disgusted.
Main items:
The 25 per cent, rebate, built into
the Fay e tax-tables by the
National party, will be abolished
from April 1. In other words,
Faye tax will be increased by
33 per cent.
Duty on motor-spirit is increased
by Is. to 2s. 3iid. (N.Z. currency )
a gallon.
Sales-tax on motor-vehicles is
doubled from 20 to ->0 per cent.
Duty on cigarettes is. more than
doubled at £3 10s. per 1000, and on
manufactured tobacco, just on
doubled at 225. 9d. per lb.
Beer-duty is doubled at 6s. a
gallon, and duty on spirits is
120 s. a gallon.
A 10 per cent, deposit must be
paid on all articles hire-purchased,
and full payment must be made
within 18 months.
Estate- and gift-duties are in-
creased.
N.Z. company dividends, as from
April 1 last, a're to be taxed in the
hands of individuals. Company-
tax is continued at a maximum
rate of 10s. in the pound. Over-
seas residents deriving dividends
from N.Z. will be liable for the
dividend-tax, but the personal ex-
emption of £3OO will relieve a con-
siderable number from actual pay-
ment. Dividends received by N.Z.
residents from overseas will be
liable for the tax unless they have
already been taxed in some other
country, of the British Common-
wealth, in which case they will be
brought in as non-assessable in-
come for calculation of rate.
A new “excess retention’’ tax is
to be levied on companies. They
will be allowed to retain in their
business 50 per cent, of their tax-
paid profits in any one y'ear. Any
part of the remaining 50 per cent,
not paid-out in dividends will be
taxed at 7s. in the pound.
Then the hand-outs:
The family benefit is raised from
10s. to 15s. a week for each child.
The weekly rate of age and other
related social-security' benefits will
be increased to £8 for married
couples and £4 10s. for single
persons, and there will be corre-
sponding increases in other pen-
sions and allowances.
A sum of £5 million, will be ad-
vanced from the Consolidated Fund
to enable a “reasonable” price to
be paid to farmers for butterfat.
The Minister expects to
collect in tax £40.5 million
more than last year, including
£27.2 million more in income-
tax and £3.7 million more in
Social Security tax. Altogether,
he hopes to gather into the
Consolidated Fund £36.5 mil-
lion more than last year and
into the Social Security Fund
£28.4 million more than last
year. But all he expects to
be able to show as surplus at
the end of the year is £6.7
million —£300,000 in the Con-
solidated Fund and £6.4
million in the Social Security
Fund.
That is not the full story.
The direct-tax increases apply
for only six months of the
current year. The indirect
taxes apply for nine months.
Increased Social Security pay-
ments operate for six months,
ordinary Government expen-
diture for 12 months, and it
seems that the Consolidated
Fund will not this year bear
all of the defence vote.
Not Disinflationary
The Minister claims that the
Budget is disinflationary. That
is nonsense.
There is no evidence of any
desire or intention on the part
of the Government to prac-
tice the economies which it
has been preaching and which
it is now trying to force on
the rest of the community.
There is, on the other hand,
every evidence of an insati-
able, Socialistic determination
to seize all in the name of
the State.
On the day following the
presentation of the Budget
sharemarket business slowed
almost to a standstill. Investors
seemed stunned.
The full implications of the
Government’s proposals, often
vaguely or ambiguously
expressed by the Minister,
were still obscure. But it was
painfully clear that a violent
attack had been made on
shareholders as a class.
In addition to sharing all
the other penalties which the
Government has seen fit to
impose on the community,
they have been singled-out for
a severe and arbitrary double-
tax —a tax which has the
appearance of being vindic-
tively inspired.
Most public companies pay
tax at the maximum rate, so
that the person who has
invested in their shares will
see half the net earnings of
his investment seized imme-
diately by the Government.
That is nothing new. - But now
the Government will, in addi-
tion, grab up to 7s. in the
pound from that portion of
the remaining half which is
distributed as dividend. And,
if it doesn’t think enough has
been distributed, it will take
another 7s. in the pound from
part of what still remains in
the company’s hands.
That is how the Govern-
ment intends to reward those
who work and save and from
their tax-paid savings provide
the capital which forms the
life-blood of the nation’s
essential business and industry.
On the other hand, the
Government is distributing
more lavish Social Security
hand-outs than ever.
In its over-all net effect the
Budget takes from those who
save and produce and gives a
bonus to the improvident and
unproductive.
That this should be done at
all is deplorable. That it
should be done at a time when
the country is facing an econo-
mic crisis which demands
increased saving and greater
production is staggering.
Slugging Companies
Taxation of dividends in
shareholders’ hands would
have been justified only by the
abolition, or at least the
drastic reduction, of company-
tax. There is no good reason
why dividend-income should
be treated any differently from
any other income, provided
that it is not already taxed
as company income.
- The 1 ong - standing, but
unjust, tax - discrimination
against the earnings of capital
invested in companies as com-
pared with the earnings of
capital invested elsewhere is
now intensified.
As the Minister has pointed-
out, if the total residue of a
company’s income, taxed at
maximum rate, is distributed
to shareholders, the combined
tax payable by the company
(10s.) and by the shareholders
(3s. 6d.) will be 13s. 6d. in
the pound, which is equal to
the maximum tax-rate for
individuals.
Up to 13s. 6d. in £
Most shareholders in public
companies will be paying not
less than 10s. and up to 13s.
6d. in the pound in tax on
the earnings of their invest-
ment —far more, in nearly
every case, than they would
be liable to pay on earnings
from any other source.
It almost looks as if the
Government were trying to
divert capital from business
and industry into its own
loans. Surely not even a poli-
tician can believe that the
functions of Government are
more important than those of
industry! Yet on this point
the main portion of the Budget
is not reassuring.
The Government is prepar-
ing to squeeze every possible
penny out of the taxpayers in
order to indulge itself in
spending at an unprecedented
rate. At the same time it
seems to be trying to force
companies into a course of
improvidence. At least it is
taking on itself the dangerous
task of telling them how much
of their own tax-paid earnings
they should retain in the busi-
ness after paying dividends.
Mr. Nordmeyer N has fixed
this amount at 50 per cent.
That, he says, is “adequate
for normal expansion and
asset-replacement.” If direc-
tors dare to think they know
their own business better than he
does, they must pay the Gov-
ernment 7s. in every extra pound
which they attempt to retain.
Caught between inadequate
depreciation allowances on the
one hand and capital-issues
control on the other, com-
panies have, in the past, been
compelled to retain a large
proportion of their earnings to
provide for development.
Now even this source of
finance is to be restricted.
The result may well be a
wasting-away of the sinews of
commerce, with resultant
weakness in time of stress.
F. P. Walsh’s Comment
The president of the Federa-
tion of Labor, Mr. Walsh,
came in with a prompt
declaration that the Budget
would make it necessary to
apply for a wage-increase.
“What will happen as a
result of this Budget is that
the price-index will rise, I
estimate, by about 5 per
cent.,” he said. The effect
would be to reduce the
purchasing-power of average
minimum award wages (about
£l2 25.) to £ll 6s. 2d. The
increase in the cost-of-living
would also reduce the value
of savings. The tax on
consumer-goods would be
reflected in a lower standard
of living. The increase in the
family - allowance paid to
mothers would in many cases
be illusory, as it would be
paid for partly by taxation on
the father’s beer and tobacco.
The distinction between the
present crisis and those of the
past was that “in all the
depressions of the past we
have had reduced prices and
unemployment, but at present
we are facing increased prices
and a strong likelihood of
unemployment.”


Debutante
By E. O. SCHLUNKE
Mrs. Reismann pressed
hard on her iron,
furrowing her fore-
head as she smoothed
the clothes ; her husband’s, her
teenage daughter’s, her school-
children’s.
The daughter stood at a
window looking wistfully at
nothing outside. Because her
mother shot possessive and
corrective glances at her each
time she set aside one of the
crisp, fragrant garments, she
stood with hunched shoulders,
self-conscious about her well-
developed breasts. Some reflex
from her daughter’s attitude
made the mother exclaim with
exaggerated resentfulness.
“First washing ; then ironing.
Then getting meals ; then wash-
ing-up. Then sweeping the
floors ; then watching them get
dirty again. Day after day;
week after week; year after*
year. It’s a wonder a woman
doesn’t cut her throat.”
Her daughter turned to her,
her gentle eyes pained by this
summary of the adult life
before her. She answered un-
comfortably.
“You get a change on
Sundays, don’t you? Going to
church?”
Compared with her mother’s,
her voice was colorless, lacking
the drama and emotion and the
faint flavor of a generations-old
German accent. But while her
mother looked a typical haus-'
frau, too occupied with house
and family to have the time to
keep her figure under control,
her naturally pleasant face
fretted with worry-lines and
roughened and reddened
by time and neglect, the
daughter had a youthful grace
and a neat figure, while her
face in its fair-haired, blue-
eyed way, and in the compas-
sionate eyes and lips, was the
kind that would shipwreck
many a young man very
suddenly if it had enough of
the right things to go with it;
a face owing a great deal to
racial inheritance what Isher-
wood called “that heart-break-
ing beauty of young German
girls.”
“Church!” Mrs. Reismann
exclaimed. “Got to go to
church, too —on the only day
when I could have a bit of a
rest.”
Then the complaint dropped
from her voice, and acute
curiosity possessed her. Her
daughter’s interest was con-
centrated on something out-
side the window.
“What are you looking at?
What’s going on out there?”
She stopped ironing, the
better to hear what proved to
be the sound of a motor-vehicle.
With inbred forethought and
economy she switched off her
iron while she stared out of
the window.
A large, new motor-lorry
came close past the house
in reverse-gear, a tanned, robust
young man leaning out of the
driver’s window, his head and
shoulders twisted to look back-
wards, while he handled the
truck with agility and con-
fidence.
“It’s Billy McLeod,” she
exclaimed, turning on her
daughter eyes now filled with
excitement. “Didn’t you see
who it was? Billy McLeod!
We’ve hardly seen him for
years!”
Her hands went involuntarily
behind her to untie her apron,
then she looked into a mirror to
push her hair into place.
“God, what an old wreck,”
she said. “Did you see who
else was in the truck?”
“It looked like a working-
man.”
“Not Billy’s father?”
“No.”
“Just as well,” said the
mother.
Her hands dropped, and she
went back to sit on her ironing-
stool, her head bent and
thoughtful.
“Well, it doesn’t really matter
how / look now,” she said.
She sat a while longer, then she
stirred herself.
“What are they doing now?”
she asked. “Can’t you see
where they’ve gone?”
“I don’t want to go sticking
my head out of the window,”
said the daughter, her troubled
eyes turning to her mother and
rapidly away again.
Mrs. Reisrfiann sprang off
her stool, and with surprising
agility walked in her rubber-
soled, flat shoes to the window.
Leaning far out she exclaimed:
“They’ve gone to the hay-
shed.” Her eyes grew big with
a new interest. “Your father
must have sold them some
baled hay. “I wonder how
much he got for it?”
She thought fiercely for a
while, lips pressed together, chin
on her clenched fist, and a new
set of lines on her forehead.
“If the drought gets worse,
the price will go even higher.
Wouldn’t it be awful if we
could get twice as much later!”
“Trust him,” the girl said,
tossing her head significantly.
A new line of thought com-
pletely changed Mrs. Reis-
mann’s mood.
“Just as well we’re selling and
not buying. I’d be sorry for
the McLeods if I didn’t know
they had tons of money. Yes,
just tons and tons of it.”
She left the window, a new
animation in her eyes ; her step
quick ; all traces of her weari-
ness gone.
■ “I’ve had enough of ironing,”
she said briskly. “Help me put
the things away ; then we’ll go
and pick tomatoes.”
Her daughter watched her as
she helped her, then she hesi-
tated, suspicious and uneasy,
knowing that the vegetable
garden was not far from the
hayshed where the lorry had
stopped. Mrs. Reismann,
already dashing out with a
basket, looked back. Her
manner changed adeptly to
tenderness.
“Ah Joanie,” she said, her
voice caressing, “don’t go


This Investment
Offers
Complete Security
GOVERNMENT-GUARANTEED
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
5V«% LOAN
CURRENCY:
5, 10 or 20 YEARS
Principal and Interest are Guaranteed by the
N.S.W. Government. The Loan is also a
Charge on the Board's Income of £13,900,000.
Assets" Exceed £130,000,000. An Authorised
Trustee Investment.
N \
Apply at any office of the Commonwealth Trading Bank,
Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited, Bank of New
South Wales, The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
Limited; through members of Stock Exchanges; or the
Sydney Water Board.
SYDNEY WATER BOARD
LOAN
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
MW.73.58.
getting silly ideas into your
head. I really do want you to
help with the tomatoes.”
Toan, easily convinced, or
** needing only
followed her mother down a
path from the back of the
house to a small, wire-netted
area, lush and fruitful under
watering as against the arid
late-summer landscape beyond.
For a while the mother
plucked tomatoes ojff the lan-
guidly drooping bushes, full of
praiseworthy, innocent in-
dustry. But soon her glances
went straying across the farm-
yard to the intruding motor-
lorry.
Her husband and the older
man who had cOme in the truck
were busy loading it with bales
of hay from a shed ; the young
man, dressed in khaki shirt and
slacks, the cotton blooming like
silk, was self-consciously un-
occupied, leaning against the
driver-side door of the truck,
on which was painted with a
flourish of colors and designs,
“W. McLeod and Son Pty.,
Ltd.” his family’s pastoral
holding was so extensive as to
justify the forming of a limited-
liability company. Mrs. Reis-
mann moved close .to her
daughter and said in an excited
whisper. “Hasn’t Billy £rown
tall! And good-looking too!
Even more good-looking than
his father was at that age.”
Billy, immediately aware that
he was being observed, opened
the truck-bonnet to fiddle with
the engine. It looked as if he
was likely to be absorbed in
its intricacies for a long time.
“Hello there, Billy.”
He looked round interestedly
at the sound of the woman’s
voice, but he saw only the
mother, because Joan had
hidden herself, discomfited, as
soon as her mother had raised
her voice.
“Hello Mrs. Reismann.”
He straightened Jiimself,
closed the truck-bonnet and
began to walk towards the
garden, thrusting his hands into
his pockets. Mrs. Reismann
put on a welcoming smile for
him which miraculously erased
most of her facial lines, giving
her a warm and comforting
appearance.
“And how is Billy getting
on?”
The voice was so intimately
interested that he couldn’t
object to the rather absurd use
of the third person.
“Oh, all right, Mrs. Reis-
mann. First-rate.”
He put his strong, young
hands on the top wire of the
fence and leaned on it.
“And how do you like it at
home, after being away so
long?”
“Like it,” he said with
brusque assurance ; “first-rate.
I’m not the student type. One
year at the uni. was enough
for fne.”
“I’m sure your father must
be glad, to have you home to
help him manage that big
station.”
She turned towards the
garden, and called:
“joanie, where are you?
Come and say hello to Billy.”
There was a desperate
rustling from behind the bean-
trellis.
“Never mind those beans;
they can wait another day;
they’ll be tough anyway.”
Toan came out dutifully,
** approached the fence with
downcast eyes. She looked up
at Billy and said in a soft, shy
voice, “Hello, Billy.”
The flush under the suntan
of Billy’s face showed his
astonishment at discovering this
delectable girl in a vegetable
garden. She, quick enough to
realise the impression she had
made on the fabulous Billy
McLeod, was unable to keep
the wonder and the excitement
which filled her from showing
in her eyes.
Billy’s hands jerked at the
wires of the fence which
separated them. He took a
quick, worried glance at hei
mother, to see if she had noticed
his primitive reaction, but Mrs.
Reismann went on as if she
had noticed nothing:
“I’m sure you must have a
wonderful life. Just driving
about the property in a utility,
having a look at the sheep, and
telling other people what to
do.”
Billy wrenched his eyes from
Joan’s downcast face.
“Oh, sometimes I work*'very
hard: when we’re giving the
sheep injections. You can't
trust that sort of work entirely
to the hands.”
He had to turn to see if Joan
was impressed by this, and was
gratified to find that her eyes
had been on his face, even
if they now evaded him.
“You must be very clever,”
Mrs. Reismann went on feel-
ingly, “to know all those
scientific things when you are
still so young.”
Billy was now finding it
difficult to pretend polite atten-
tion. For a while Mrs. Reis-
mann had nothing more to
say, and the two young people
were clenched in that embar-
rassed silence which so often
seizes them in the presence of
adults. The sun beat down
on them, and the fragrance
(Continued on page 56.)


COMPANY MEETING
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co. Ltd.
ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS HELD IN MELBOURNE ON FRIDAY. JUNE 27. 1958.
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS
Speaking at the Annual Meeting, Mr. C. Y. Syme, Chairman, said—
I would refer first to the
BALANCE SHEET.
Where our “Capital Account
records the increase resulting from
the £SOO.OOO of new share capital
subscribed iu April last year. The
reduction in the amounts owing to
creditors aud owing to us as de-
positors is substantial, reflecting
the reduced value of wool sales iu
progress at balauee date.
The increase in premises is due
to the completion of improvements
to our Melbourne and "Sydney
offices and the development of our
representation in the country.
Merchandise stocks have also in-
creased. Partly this is a conse-
quence of the improved turnover
referred to in the annual report,
hut in addition the quantity of
eornsacks and woolpacks ordered
on early estimates of seasonal re-
quirements proved to be too high
so that stocks carried forward are
rather larger than usual.
Debtors are down, but not as
much as we would like them to be,
having' regard to the lower stock
prices which have been ruling. /The
reduction of income suffered by the
pastoral industry this season has
been serious, in many districts
varying from 20 per cent, to SO
per cent, lower, and' naturally the
budgets of many producers have
been upset so that we have had to
face calls for financial assistance
from a greater number of clients.
PROFIT AND LOSS
ACCOUNT:
For the first three months of the
year under review, viz.. April-June,.
1957, results were very good. ■•We
had a substantial quantity of wool
in store carried forward into the
year, receipts were buoyant aud,
prices very satisfactory. Turnover
of livestock was also good in most
states. , As the. year advanced,
seasonal conditions became more
diffiehlt. and with the poor spring,
severe droughts were experienced,
particularly in northern areas.
The wool season opened at the end
of August with reduced prices aud
further serious- falls were recorded
as the season progressed. These
factors, caused substantial falls iu
livestock prices, particularly, for
sheep. and although numbers
handled for the year were good,
value of, sheep sales fell hv 23 per
cent, and consequently our earn-
ings suffered severely.
Our income from wool-broking,
being based partly on quantity
handled and partly on value, was -
not down proportionately to the
fall in price but still fell consider-
ably during the second, half of the
year.
The increased turnover in the
Merchandise department arose
mostly from goods required for
improvement work.
As a result of the favorable
factors applying in the first
quarter, the receipts side of our
profit and loss account showed only
a small drop as compared with last
year, hilt the increases in expendi-
ture recorded iu recent years con-
tinued. Award increases are the
main cause of our salaries and
wages being up about £lOO.OOO and
the costs of supplies and services
showed an increase. Expenditure
for repairs aud maintenance of
properties throughout Australia
was also higher. , Lower profits
naturally resulted in a lower in-
come tax provision and after tax
the profit for the .year was £527,000
compared with £699,000 in the
previous year.
Last year’s reduction in company
tax of Gd. in the £ resulted in a
saving of over £40.000 in tlie charge
on the 1957 profits-and this amount
has been brought into the appro-
priation account
WOOL MARKET:
The wool-selling season has been
a disappointing one. Anticipated
final receipts of 4.350,000 bales into
brokers’ stores will be 10 per cent,
less than the previous season's
record. Early estimates were based
on an average season and made
insufficient,alowance for the lower
rainfall throughout the Common-
wealth producing lighter fleeces,
shorter in staple-.and faultier than
those of last season’s very stylish
clip. The Autumn shorn section
was particularly affected. Lamb-
ing percentages declined so that
total sheep population is down and
the proportion of young sheep
reduced.
With only a few small tem-
porary recoveries of short duration,
the price level has decreased
steadily to a basis 35 per cent,
below the May, 1957, peak when
the decline first showed signs of
commencing. The season's average
til months) 0f,.63.59d. per lb. is
21 per 'cent, lower than that of
the previous one. Estimated total
proceeds of £330.000.000 will be
approximately £150.000.000. or 30
per cent, below last year's figure.
Receipts, average price and pro-
ceeds are comparable with those of
the 1955-56 year.
The dry summer and early
Autumn in most districts suggest
a lighter ou. from fewer sheep next
season: therefore, it would appear
that-, a rise in prices or an increase
in efficiency is necessary to sup-
port the present cost structure of
the indusn’y.
Tiie check to confidence produced
by the down turn of business
activity in the United States was
reflected . in world commodity
markets. The three principal wool
buying countries, Britain. Japan,
and France, all encountered eco-
difficulties of one sort or
another and curtailed their pur-
chases, of wool.
Czechoslovakia, Poland aud
Yugoslavia moved against this
trend and took larger quantities,
while Italy demonstrated the
strength of its textile industry, tlie
selling points being the competitive
price range of the materials it pro-
duces combined with particularly
skilful designs. ,
For the first time sales wore.held
in Albany. W.A.. and the Com-
pany was associated with the three
’ other West Australian Brokers in
the three series held. Ibices paid
were fully in line with other
'Centres and more wool is expected
to he handled there next season.
A decision by the New South Wales
and Queensland Woolbnyers’ As-
sociation to cease attending sales
in the Goulburn Centre—which has
been an established market since
the Auction System was reconsti-
tuted following World War ll—
seems to be against the best inter-
ests of the industry, and has inter-
rupted plans made by the Com-
pany to build a wool store at Goul-
burn.
THE SEASON:
The year under review has been
an extremely dry one, with New
South Wales and Queensland the
hardest hit. Notwithstanding ex-
tensive handfeeding and water
carting, stock numbers have been
depleted, partly through poor
lambings and calvings, but also
to some extent by forced sales of
large numbers of aged stock for
canning and like purposes.
Cattle breeders in the Alice
Springs district of the Northern
Territory received good Summer
rains hut these were not followed
up and the feed dried off. At
the end of January and during
February New South Wales re-
ceived relief rain over the eastern
half of the State, heavy enough
in most districts to replenish
water supplies, hut conditions
remained dry in the West.
The north western Pastoral areas
of Queensland received rain in
March which extended well, into
Central - Queensland and, with
further falls registered recently,
the seasonal outlook generally in
these parts is assured. However,
drought conditions still prevail
over a large portion of the south-
west.
It is pleasing to report that since
our year closed,-good general rains
were received in all States except
Queensland and the prospects for
a favorable season are much-
brighter, although follow-up rains
are eagerly awaited. There are
some areas in these States, how-
ever, that are urgently in need of
rain and they include the far west
and south-west of New South
Wales, parts of the far north of
South Australia and the Nullagine
district of Western Australia.
The enquiry for stock has im-
proved as a result of the rains but
prices have not shown any marked
increase. Values generally at the
present time would be somewhat
lower on an off-shears basis than
those ruling in October-November
last.
Rabbits are reported in increasing
numbers in some districts and
foxes "are taking many lambs,
whilst dingoes are causing heavy
stock losses in areas of Queensland.
COMPANY’S OWN
PROPERTIES:
On our Station properties dry'
conditions prevailed throughout
the Spring and early Summer. As
a result iamb .markings were down,
a large proportion of the lambs
dropped being lost through the
inability of the ewes to rear them.
However, with rains in January,
temporary relief was provided as
far as pasture was concerned. Last
month further rain was received
which has ! assisted the feed situa-
tion and made water safe for
several months ahead. Our Queens-
land properties up to date have
fared better seasonally than those
in New South Wales. It is antici-
pated that our coining wool clip
will be somewhat lighter than last
year.
GENERAL: ,
Although our Balance Sheet
shows that at March last clients
had borrowed from us rather less
than a year previously, their in-
comes have since been much lower
than usual while expenses have
■ increased, so that calls on us are
now heavy. An indication of these
factors is given by the following
official figures for wool sold in
Australia by all Brokers*
In April and May, 1957, 892.000
bales wool realised £91,000,000.
while in April and May, 1958,
5G0.000 bales wool realised
£35.^00.000:
Tills extraordinary drop in in-
come lias occurred at tlie time wool-
growers have had heavy calls to
meet lor income tax. Assessments
recently due have been based on
the income of the season to
30/6/’57 when wool averaged SOd.
per lb. while the provisional pay-
ments made a year previously
against this commitment were cal-
culated on an income earned when
wool averaged per lb. The
unfortunate result of this conjunc-
tion of circumstances has been
that in 1957, when graziers’ in-
comes were buoyant, tax calls were
relatively low. while in JOSS. when
many incomes are down so severely,
tax calls are very high indeed.
Institutions such as our Company
must do the best they can to assist
woolgrowers in this sort of situa-
tion, but it is not easy to do. so
when, due to the drop in prices,
advances for normal carry on pur-
poses are higher than usual.
We have found that the call on
us for Advances is usually con-
siderably higher in the new de-
veloping districts than in the older
ones where many graziers have
been able to build up financial
reserves and you will appreciate
that fluctuations of income and ex-
penditure such as I have referred
to above make difficult the main-
tenance of an improvement pro-
gramme over a period of years on
a planned systematic basis, par-
ticularly in the case of men not yet
established.
If wool prices at the present level
or lower were to persist for some
years, much new country would
not return the costs of develop-
ment. However, so far there has
been little indication of a slowing
down of the pace of development
and we trust that this will not
become necessary. It.lias to be re-
membered that when an improve-
ment. policy has been started it
must be carried through systemati-
cally, as otherwise the last state
the country concerned could be
worse than the first. The costs
involved must usually be incurred
over a term of years before ade-
quate returns are received, and the
proposals recently before the
Federal Parliament for the estab-
lishment of a Development Bank
appears to have real possibilities.
If a policy of slowing down or
ceasing improvement work were
forced on primary producers, the
impact would be felt through the
entire economy and the general
standard of living would be under
pressure.
The great bulk of Australian ex-
port income comes from primary
produce, which so provides the
funds to pay for the import of
materials, most of which are neces-
sary to our economy or at all
events contribute materially to our
well being. The overseas funds
built up during 1956-57 will, sup-
port one lean season but if an-
other such season as the present
one should follow it, greater im-
port restrictions may well he
necessary and the primary pro-
ducer will not be alone in his diffi-
culties.
In speaking to you a year ago, I
commeuted that, because of the
rising trend of Expenses, we were
apprehensive of the effect of any
fall in prices or deterioration in
seasonal conditions. Unfortun-
(Continued on next page)


ately, both were experienced
during last year and the results
and the prospects emphasise my
comments.'
Your Board and Management
have been giving much attention to
developing efficiency and to saving
avoidable expenditure and we con-
sider we have had some success in
this matter. l r ou will realise, how-
ever, that it is not easy for one
section of the economy to reduce its
costs when the rest of the economy
remains relatively prosperous, and
we, therefore, cannot expect quick
and dramatic results. In par-
ticular, we cannot reasonably ex-
pect that costs in the current year
will be reduced to the extent neces-
sary to offset the likely drop in
revenue. We have to go back to
104!) to.find wool prices lower than'
received in the .past four
months while since that year the
official “C” Series Retail Price
Index has risen by 70%. For-
tunately. this is offset to some
extent by marked improvement in
productivity due to improved tech-
niques and equipment but the
trend lias ominous possibilities.
Although the main causes of the
recent fall in wool prices may be
of a transient nature a definite
change in spending habits does
appear to be in progress. In the
more highly developed countries
people are tending to spend their
money on such articles as motor
cars, television and wireless sets,
household appliances and the like
rather than on clothing, and the
hire purchase system lias given a
great impetus to this tendency.
In the field of textiles themselves,
synthetics are in some directions
taking the place of natural fibres.
Nevertheless, wool has substantial
advantages of handle, warmth and
moisture absorption and is there-
fore particularly suited for the
climates in which the largest popu-
lation live. We have confidence in
its future but there can be no
relaxation in the drive for greater
efficiency and more,emphasis may
have to be given to production of
meat as improved pastures extend.
Substantial progress is being
made in the investigation and solu-
tion of the problems of the wool
and meat industries and producers
need to be alert to the possibilities
of improved methods of produc-
tion, transport and preparation for
sale as these are developed.
Our _ officers are highly skilled
ltl their own special spheres and
experienced advice is widely
sought. The Board wishes to
thank our Staff for their efforts
miring the past year which for the
reasons already given has not been
v?,. eas -' oue - 'l'hey have worked
'ery well indeed. <
Defence and Recruiting
By "EK DUM"
2. —Serviceman Conditions
The getting and keeping
of personnel is at the
root of the problems of
" the defence services, and
failures are partly due to
method and partly to the
overall mental approach of the
Government and higher strata
of thinking in the forces.
They cannot completely divorce
themselves from the past.
One basic change which
seems due to be made is the
abolition of the word “recruit-
ing.” It belongs to the dust-bin
in a modern service in which
conditions are really attractive.
There are big industrial, finan-
cial and commercial concerns
which induct as many officers
on to their staffs in the year
as the Army, but not one of
them needs to have a “director
of recruiting.” There are firms
in Australia which employ
battalions or brigades of men,
but they speak of “employ-
ment” of men ; they do not
have to recruit in the way the
services recruit.
Archaic Conceptions
But in the services the ghosts
of the past sergeants with
ribbons-up at corner pubs,
Queen’s shillings glistening
under thirsty noses, the words
“Who’s for death or glory,
boys?” rising in the
the official approach.
And the vestiges of the out-
look which thought that a
three-day deserter should be
tied up to a palm-tree and
shot still hang about the
corners of Government offices.
In fact, much as the services
try, there are corners of them
in which it does not seem to
have been possible to exorcise
the conception that a service-
man must be a bit of a no-
hoper, who should receive a
little less than ordinary
civilians; be treated on a
different industrial plane than
civilians; become useless
earlier than a civilian ; retire
on a pension less than a
civilian ; that he should be a
“bod” who can be moved about
without particular considera-
tion for his interests and feel-
ings or those of his family, and
that he should be kept under
discipline which, no matter how
kindly it is administered, is
reminiscent of that of a boys’
boarding-school. Also, that
service terms once entered on
should be like jail sentences:
immutable.
This kind of atmosphere
continues to against
the inclination of services
heads themselves, but they
are prisoners of the in-
herited method of martial life.
They anxiously try to escape
from it, but they are in the
tentacles of continuing regula-
tions. They are constantly on
the defensive in their public
relations. Any newspaperman
who finds himself in the
environs of a military installa-
tion is likely to be invited to
visit the sergeants’ mess and
the cookhouse, to “go any-
where” and ask any questions
of the men as to their treatment
and food and officers, to
examine the mattresses in
barracks and the beer in
canteens (a magnificent medium
of good public relations), and
generally to snoop into every-
thing so that he may tell the
world what a fine life the life
of the p.b.i. is when at home.
All this represents a sort of
escapism from unpleasant
realities.
Everybody is familiar with
the recruiting-advertisements—
recruiting-efforts and publicity
cost the country annually in
the region of £300,000 with
their graphic illustrations of
the attractions of life in the
forces. From these a man front
Mars might deduce that our
traditional dtfenders are typi-
fied by three too-tidy, too wide-
eyed youths who walk eternally
through the pages of the
daily press, their uniforms
without a crease, their expres-
sions fixed and simpering as if
they had just been carried out
of Madame Tussaud’s waxy
works.
This is supposed to attract the
he-men of the community to
a service life, but all it appears
to do is to produce rude jokes
among the enlisted lads and to
help keep the wolf from the
door of the recruiting-staff and
its publicity-men.
It is productive of just about
as much good to the strength
of the forces as the photo-
graphs (published last month)
of a Minister for the Army
without very much thatch
adjuring his generals, with less,
to “take their hair down” with
him and be as frank as they
like, an incident which illus-
trates the public-school outlook
of the defence heirarchy
towards military staffs.
For all that can be done
forces continue to dwindle and
men and officers alike to be
snapped-up by civilian life.
Generally speaking, even in
times of full employment,
private companies do not
advertise wholesale for men,
and especially for youth. These
come to them because they are
known to provide steady, well-
paid, permanent employment if
the newcomer is found suitable
and likes the life.
In most there is no binding-
down for a number of years.
Yet men stay. In some of the
biggest, particularly banks and
insurance offices, men move
from one end 'of Australia to
the other, as do military and
officers and men, yet movement
does not seem to be the same
burden as it is in the services.
Men have to be absent from
home, as in the Navy and
Army, but it does not seem to
constitute the same hardship to
them. They are generally not
much better paid than Army
officers and “other ranks” at
various stages of their careers,
but the numbers of, say,
bankers or officers of the
insurance companies who leave
their first-chosen employment
early in life is relatively small.
The Governing Factors
The task of the services in
handling men, in considering
their domestic problems, is
admittedly somewhat more
difficult than that of handling
office- or field-staffs. But the
difficulties are rather based on
the traditional approach
which used to be almost the
same in commercial and finan-
cial life but is no longer—rather
than on necessity.
No matter how many
officers or men the recruiters
attract in the beginning, the
real factor in the maintenance
of an efficient force is to keep
those who have been recruited ;
since the longer a man can
remain in good health and
physical condition the more
valuable he becomes as a
weapon of war.
To get to the roots of the
matter it is necessary to con-
sider several factors —finance-
control, conditions, pay,
security, comfort and con-
venience and stability of life.
Finance-control is at the
bottom of a lot of the reasons
why the services cannot keep
their men. The servicemen’s
commanders are not respon-
sible for their financial policy,
which is wholly dictated by
civilians. It is perhaps natural
that a committee under the
Treasurer should dictate pay
(Continued on page 57)


A Squadron Comes Home
Five Lincoln bombers
touched-down at Darwin
on Monday after a flight
from Singapore. Yester-
day they flew over Perth ; on
Friday they go to Adelaide.
Thereafter they will be seen
in flight over Melbourne,
Launceston, Hobart, Canberra,
Sydney and Brisbane) flying a
farewell salute to those cities
before making their final land-
ing at Amberley (Q.) on July
17.
This round-Australia flight
has a double significance. It
marks the return-home of No.
1 Squadron, R.A.A.F., after
eight years’ service in Malaya,
and it is also the last flight
the squadron will make in Lin-
colns, which are to be replaced
by Canberra jet-bombers.
Although the change from
Lincolns to jets is, in a sense,
the end of an era, in the
broader view it is merely the
latest link in a chain that spans
42 years and many types of
plane—for No. 1 Squadron
was formed at Point Cook
early in 1916. When it left
Melbourne in the Orsova on
March 16 of that year it was
a squadron without planes ; its
pilots had learned to fly, but
had had no training in gunnery,
bombing or photography. They
got all that at JJeliopolis,
Egypt, where they were
equipped with BE2C aircraft,
plodders even by 1916 stand-
ards of speed and which were
soon replaced by Martinsyde
Scouts and BEI2As.
\X7hen the original squadron
left Australia it comprised
28 officers and 195 men, and
when it began operations over
the Canal and the Sinai Desert
in June, 1916, it consisted of
three flights each of four planes.
After a short time two aircraft
were added to each flight,
bringing the squadron’s total
machines to 18. Ore of these
flights was commanded by
Captain R. Williams, of
Mconta (S.A.), later to become
Air-Marshal Sir Richard Wil-
liams, first Australian-born
Chief of Air Staff, R.A.A.F.,
and, later still, Director-General
of Civil Aviation.
But Williams was only one <rf
many desert fliers of No. 1
Squadron who were to write
their names in Australia’s air
history. Sir Ross Smith, then
a lieutenant, was an observer
with No. 1 Squadron, and two
other men who shared with
him and Sir Keith Smith the
honors of the first flight from
England to Australia—Ser-
geants Bennett and Shiers —
also served with No. 1. To
the squadron’s Captain Frank
McNamara went the only V.C.
to be awarded to an Australian
airman in World War I. Badly
wounded, he landed in the
desert under heavy Turkish
fire to rescue another pilot
who had crash-landed in enemy
territory. McNamara served
with the R.A.A.F. in World
War II and reached the rank
of Air-Vice-Marshal. R. M.
Lincoln bombers returning from a jungle bombing-raid in
Malaya. Inset: BE2C aircraft of 1916, the first planes flown
by No. 1 Squadron.
Drummond became an Air-
Marshal, R.A.F.; L. J. Wackett
turned to aircraft-designing
and is now general-manager
of Commonwealth Aircraft
Corporation ; Hudson Fysh and
P. J. McGinniss pioneered a
small air-service in Queensland
which grew into Qantas Em-
pire Airways.
After the Kaiser’s war the
squadron disappeared for
a while, but was revived in
1925 under the command of
Flight-Lieutenant A. H. Cobby,
whose war-time flying had
been done with No. 2 Squadron
in France. Cobby’s command
was a mixed force. There were
four DH9s for Army co-opera-
tion ; four more as a bomber-
flight and four SES fighters.'
Two Flying-Officers of that
period are now Air-Vice-
Marshal Charlesworth, Direc-
tor-General of Recruiting, and
Air-Marshal Scherger, Chief_
of Air Staff.
The DH9s and BE5s gave
way to Wapitis, and these in
turn to Hawker Demons, and
by the time World War II
broke-out in 1939 the squad-
ron, under the command of
Squadron-Leader P. G. Heffer-
nan, had developed into a
bomber-reconnaissance squad-
ron! Re-equipped with Avro-
Ansons, it put in the first few
months of the wan on coastal-
patrol duty, but in June, 1940,
it abandoned its Ansoqs and
climbed into Hudsons —really
big stuff they seemed to men
who had been flying Demons
less than 12 months earlier —-
and took itself off to Malaya,
where for 18 months, first
under Squadron-Leader A. L.
Walters (now Air-Vice-Marshal
and Air Member for Per-
sonnel) and then under Wing-
Commander R. H. Davis, it
trained in general reconnais-
sance and sea-attack duties.
This training was turned to
good account at 2 a.m. on
December 8, 1941, when the
squadron went into action
against a Japanese invasion-
fleet at Kota Bharu. At the
end of the day only five of the
squadron’s 13 Hudsons were
still capable of taking the air
and many of its crew-members
had lost their lives in the action
—but No. 1 was credited with
having killed 15,000 Japanese.
Withdrawn to Singapore and
re-equipped, the squadron con-
tinued in action, its most not-
able engagement being an
heroic strike against a convoy
escorted by 14 warships.
With the fall of Singapore
the squadron shifted base to
Sumatra and finally Java. At
the end of the fighting in Java
only four planes were capable
of being flown back to Aus-
tralia. Wing - Commander
Davis and 160 of the squadron
went into captivity when the
Dutch surrendered. The squad-
ron had by then sunk 15 enemy
ships and inflicted heavy losses
on Japanese troops.
Re-formed in December,
1943, and equipped with Aus-
tralian-built Beauforts, No. 1
Squadron was posted to Darwin
and operated over the Timor
Sea until 1945, when, flying
Australian-built Mosquitos, it
moved to Borneo and at the
war's end was operating from
a base on Labuan.
"Deduced to a cadre basis on
AV return to Australia, the
squadron was not brought up
to full strength again until
1948, when it became a unit
of No. 82 Bomber Wing, based
on Amberley (Q.) and equipped
with Australian-built Lincoln
four-engined bombers. It was
in Lincolns that NO. 1 returned
to Singapore in July, 1950, just
over 10 years after its first
arrival there in World War II.
From Tengah base, Singapore,
the Lincolns have for eight
years carried on operations
against the terrorists in the
jungle, their considerable
bomb-load (14,0001b.), long
range and three gun-turrets
making them a formidable
instrument for the job. The
squadron has been responsible
for the dropping of 55 per cent,
of all bombs dropped during
the Malayan Emergency; its
work has contributed notably
to the gradual wearing-down
of terrorist strength, resources
and morale to the present stage
where, it is confidently hoped,
the end of the Emergency is in
sight. In its Malayan tour of
duty the squadron collected six
D.F.C.s, three bars to the
D.F.C., an O.B.E., a D.F.M.,
four B.E.M.s and 15 m.i.d.s.
The five Lincolns, led by
Wing - Commander K. V.
Robertson and carrying 50
members of.crew and ground-
staff, will, in their flights over
the cities, symbolise all the men
who served in the squadron in
three' wars. Behind them will
fly a ghostly procession of
BE2Cs, Martinsyde Scouts,
BE 12As, DH9s, BE5s, Wapitis,
Demons, Avro-Ansons, Hud-
sons, Beauforts and Mosquitos.
Awaiting them at Amberley
will be their new Canberra jets.
The Lincolns are grounded,
but No. 1 Squadron flies on.


BALD PATCHES
Hair grown secret formula
Sacred Eastern Oils. Rarely
fails. Treats Alopecia. Leading
broadcaster’s liair grown after
years of Baldness. Effective
treatment for dandruff (Basic
cause of nearly all hair sick-
ness). and stops falling, hair.
My herbal treatment restores
grey hair to original colour.
Not a dye—not injurious, not
obvious. Names given of lead-
ing citizens (with their per-
mission) who gratefully testify.
My treatment used in privacy
of your home.
For free advice write—
MRS. A. EASTON,
Box 5204, G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Doomben Double
C. Kelly, who rides mostly
in N.S.W. country districts,
though he has also been suc-
cessful on Sydney courses,
landed the first leg of the big
Brisbane double, the Doomben
Ten Thousand, on Grey Ghost,
who’s trained at Warwick
Farm by Jim Barker. Kelly
declared a couple of pounds
over, to ride at 7.6, and just
kept Grey Ghost there to win
the big prize by a bare half-
head from very unlucky Troy,
with Brisbane sprinter New
Joy a neck away. Troy, spot-
. ting them a lot of start,
finished brilliantly and just
failed to get up. Troy’s Sydney
trainer, J. Denham, had some
consolation when Huaview
easily landed the Second
Maiden.
Brisbane trainer Fred Best
won the First Doomben
Maiden with Rookwood Star,
a colt by Royal Empire (imp.)
from Infinite Lady (imp.); the
colt was bred by M. Point at
Sledmere Stud, Scone (N.S.W.),
and was sold as a yearling for
400gns. Infinite Lady is a
well-bred mare by William of
Valence from Futurity by
Blandford, and as the family-
lines include such names as
Fair Trial, Nasrullah, Mah-
moud and Nizami the Brisbane
colt might develop staying
ability in the coming season.
Ridden on Saturday by G.
Moore, he won easily over
7 furlongs less 93yds.
i
• «L • •
Summer Stream, ridden by
N. Sellwood, was too solid for
opponents in the Second
Juvenile Handicap at the
Doomben fixture. The filly,
trained by E. R. Kirwan for
J. C. Wheeler and E. W.
Entriker, is by Judicate (imp.)
from Fete by Midstream (imp.)
from Social by Magpie (imp.).
Fete is also the dam of the
well-performed Oxley, winner
at two miles at Caulfield and
at Flemington.
• • • •
The B.A.T.C.’s Doomben
Cup, programmed for next
Saturday, looks (at time of
writing) likely to have starters
owned in the three eastern
States. A £lO,OOO middle-
distance contest, it has attracted
the best horses in training.
Form on Doomben’s first
day indicated Cup prospects for
Rin Tin, Baystone, Grenoble
and Timor. Topweight Sailor’s
Guide (9.8) didn’t race on
Saturday, but, given a fast
track-gallop instead, he pleased
connections by running a mile
in at the Doomben
course—one of the best efforts
at that distance for a long time.
For the Doomben Cup:
Sailor’s Guide, 1 ; Baystone, 2 ;
Book Link, 3.
« • • •
Djoser won his first race,
a Hawkesbury Maiden, last
month, then finished third to
Recap at Warwick Farm last
Saturday week. He wasn’t
“Last match he hurt his knuckles.”
fancied much for the Two-
year-old Novice at Warwick
last Saturday, but he clear,ed-
out to win by four lengths. He
is by Nilo (imp.) from Cavilla
by Portofino (imp.) from Cava-j
line by Son o’ Mine (imp.). His
brother, Arab’s Choice, is a top
Melbourne performer.
• • • •
Maybe Ken Ranger, former
leader of the Randwick betting-
ring, won handsomely when
Leejolyn narrowly landed big
bets in the Warwick Farm-
Juvenile Novice for fillies. Lee-
jolyn 'was ridden by little-
known apprentice H. Farrell,
arid in early betting was at
33 to 1 ; she started at sixes. A
product of Kia-Ora Stud,
Scone (N.S.W.), Leejolyn is
one of the few of the progeny
of Judicate (imp.) to race. Judi-
cate (a Hyperion) won races
at up to 2 miles 1 furlong in
England and also landed the
Irish Derby. The filly’s dam,
Vivian, is by Le Grand Due
(Fr.) from Vivere by Heroic.
Those who fancied Gentle
Lu for the Warwick Farm
George’s River Handicap had
something to go on after Grey
Ghost had won the Doomben
Ten Thousand in Brisbane
about an hour earlier: Gentle
Lu had easily defeated the
grey over six furlongs in the
Wilson Handicap a week
before. The soft track, too,
was in her favor, and she had
Won at a mile at Caulfield and
in New Zealand. She duly won
very nicely at short odds.
• • • •
As easily as Gentle Lu had
accounted for her opposition,
Star Boy beat outsiders Naroco
and Tauntef in the Second
Bossley Park Stakes. Very
solid now, Star Boy could go
on to much better things. He
is a three-year-old by Phaleron
Bay (imp.) from Lady Upstart
by Burnewang (imp.). His
brother, Phal Prince, won races
on soft tracks, and that type of
going evidently suits Star Boy,
whose family-lines include two
past champions, Hydrogen and
Desert Gold.
Sydney trainer T. J. Smith
(now \on his way to America)
won his 98th race for the
season—all States —when New
Stand easily beat a smart field
of sprinters in the Guildford
Welter at Warwick Farm.
Smith’s No. 1 jockey, G.
Moore, has won more than 80
races this season at Sydney
meetings. As a two-year-old
New Stand was a smart winner,
two of his successes being at
Randwick. He won impres-
sively at the Farm.
I t
Compilla, one of two out-
siders to win at Warwick
Farm (the other was Djoser),
is raced by S. V. Kensit, a
country owner, and trained at
Randwick. All trafcks come
alike to him, but he has shown
to advantage on soft ground,
and the going was holding at
the Farm. His dam, Quartilla,
was got by Gold Nib (imp.)
from Chorine by Actor (Fr.).
A, close relative, Welloch, won
the Port Adelaide Cup. .
• • • •
Prince Kerdieil gave an
excellent performance at the
midweek Canterbury Park
fixture, winning the Second
Welter in brilliant style. The
two-year-old colt is trained by
Bob Stuart at Rosebery for
W. H. Duffy and has had four
wins this season, two at
Canterbury, one at Hawkes-
bury, and the other at Rand-
wick. Like his latest Canter-
bury success, the Rand-
wick win, on June 16,
was a most attractive
performance. He landed the
money by six lengths, on a
heavy track. That .he has
revelled in soft going isn't
surprising: his sire, High Caste,
was extra-good when the going
was heavy. Incidentally, Stuart
has an excellent record over the
years with two-year-olds, and
this season they have won eight
races for him and filled 12
minor places. His other winners
have been Morning Gleam,
Bardshah, Wandella and Globe
Chatter.
• • • •
Grenoble’s stablemate Prince
Kooba was the logical pick for
the Canterbury midweek First
Maiden Handicap after his
good third to Bruefos at the
same track at his prior run,
in which he was one of the
leaders till they turned into
the straight. Five joint-owners
had to share the £524 prize for
his win. Still, trainer Frank
Lewis has the gelding fit
enough to quickly add to earn-
ings. Prince Kooba is by
Friar’s Fancy (imp.) from
Nitasya and cost a modest
180gns. as a yearling. Nitasya
(a Nizami) didn’t race, but her
daughter, Early Bird, won the
A.J.C. Adrian Knox Stakes
and the V.R.C. Wakeful Stakes.
First Buzzard (Doomben Cup),
Six Fifty (Q.T.C. Derby) and


Divorce Notice
Ilj THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ANNIE HAtf HIND late of 3 Spring-
side Street Rozelle.- —TAKE NOTICE
that HERBERT NtHtMAN HIND has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2282 of
1958 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
way enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
18th September 1958 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from J.
GORNEY, Solicitor, of 185 Elizabeth
Street Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Missing Friend
TO ALBERT ERNEST WARWICK for-
merly of Woods Point in the State of
Victoria but now of parts unknown. —
TAKE 'NOTICE that your wife MAR-
GARET MAY WARWICK has com-
menced proceedings against you for a
Divorce on the ground of desertion
during three years and upwards
UNLESS you enter an appearance in
the office of the Prothonotary Supreme
Court .Melbourne on or before the Ist
day of September 1958 the icase may
proceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs ANI) FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that if you intend to
defend the said proceedings you must
file an answer in the said office on or
before the 11th day of September, 1958.
THIS ADVERTISEMENT is inserted by
the Public Solicitor, 601 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Seven Fifty (QT.C. St. Leger)
appear in the pedigree.
¥ # *
The Nationals
In 77 years only two horses
have won the Grand National
and Steeple double: Redleap
(1892) and Mosstrooper (1930).
Redleap humped, a prodigious
13.3 for his Steeple win a
performance never since
equalled. The only horse to
win with more than 12st. in
the last 35 years was the great
Redditch (1933). Victory
March (1942) holds time honors
for the 3 miles 1 Surlong Steeple,
6.2.
• • • •
Those statistics give the
measure of the task Pedro’s
Pride faces to win next Satur-
day’s Grand National Steeple
with 12.7. To make her task
even harder, the champion
mare has had only' one race
over the jumps this time up.
She has had to be nursed along
because of a weakness in her
off hind-leg. However, she's
the greatest jumping mare ever
to race in this country. She
won the National last year with
11.12, and won with ridiculous
ease.
For the Grand National
,Steeplechase: Pedro's Pride, 1 ;
Redfield, 2; Penang, 3.
Had trainer Roy Bones had
his way last Saturday’s Grand
National Hurdle winner, Re-
sotto, would not have started
in the race. Bones considered
the five-year-old Ottoman geld-
ing too brilliant to see out the
three miles of the National, but
owner F. W. Anderson was
eager to have a National
runner. Resotto not only led
from end to end —he had ID
lengths to spare from second
placegetter Haydon Day at the
finish, with Venetian Castle a
distant third.
• • > •
The result proved, not that
Bcnes’s judgment was astray
but that last Saturday’s field
was weak by National stand-
ards. There wa§ not a runner
capable of taking the fight to
the leader. Time for the race
on q track that provided good
winter going was 5.40 f, a long
way from Cheery Jack’s race-
record of 5.28.
• • • •
The winner is the first of the
imported Ottoman’s stock to
earn renown as a jumper. A
son of English Derby winner
Blue Peter, Ottoman has got
his share of winners, but few
of them have won past a
middle-distance.
• • • •
The winning ride on Resotto
was jockey “Nipper” Ander-
son’s third National success.
He won the Hurdle on Story-
time in 1954, the Steeple on
The Settler in 1956. Like Re-
sotto, Storytime led from
barrier to box.
* * *
*' Thoroughbreds 11
Originally launched by
George Ryder (breeder, race-
horse-owner and a foundation-
director of the Sydney Turf
Club) as a high-class magazine
covering the best aspects of
horseracing in Australia (and else-
where) —with emphasis especially on
the breeding-side and most note-
worthy performances—“ Australian
Thoroughbreds” is being continued
on the same lines by Sydney’s City
Tattersalls Club, with John
Schofield and Lyell Pratt as editors.
There are four issues a year
(March, June, September and
December), and the first under the
new control —the June issue,
received by The Bulletin last
week —is a topnotch five-bob’s-
worth of expert horse-lore, Austra-
lian and overseas.
The cover-pictures, for a start,
should gel-in anyone with any sort
of interest in a good horse. They
include one of the most splendid
finishes in Australian racing his-
tory : Sailor’s Guide just beating
Prince Darius and Tulloch in the
Queen Elizabeth Stakes at Fleming-
ton. As well, there are Man of
Iron’s win in the A.J.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes, Grenoble's Don-
caster, and head-studies of Sailor’s
Guide, Misting and Tulloch.
In an “editorial” City Tatt.’s
chairman >V. R. Buxton outlines
the plans for “Thoroughbreds”;
they come under the non-
proprietary club’s policy of
ploughing-back ail profits, not only
to improve club-amenities, but also
in making (as with “Thorough-
breds”) “further worthwhile con-
tribution to the progress of racing.”
First feature article is headed
“Great Variety in Sires for New
Season,” dealing expertly with some
of the best of them, to the theme:
“Evidence mounts almost weekly
of the determination by stud-
masters to buy top-class stallions
in an attempt to improve the Aus-
tralian racehorse” —a trend helped
considerably by a sensible (and
belated) taxation-concession deci-
sion.
Breeding in Victoria and in
Queensland, the gi;eat influence of
the horse St. Simon on world
thoroughbred-breeding,- this year’s
Derby prospects -(still rather
obscure), “In-breeding Horses,”
“How Do You Pick Your Year-
lings?” "What Makes the Jumping
Horse,” “Genetics in Breeding,”
“Classics in England,” and a par-
ticularly nice first-hand story on
the filly Gay Satin are other typical
features; with, as well, a detailed
listing of the last (record) Sydney
yearling-sales.
It adds-up to an exceptionally
good horse-magazine, well edited
and attractively produced.
* * »
The Tests
The second Rugby League
Test, in Brisbane, was one of
those extraordinary games of
football that happen from
time to time —that are against
all logic, against all rhyme or
reason, and are all the better
for it.
Except perhaps on the
ground that England hadn’t
yet played itself up to top
form at the time of the first
Test (in Sydney), it should, on
paper-logic, have again been
beaten, and even more easily
than it was then (25-8). Instead,
it splendidly won by 25-18, and
on play almost deserved to
have won by a much wider
margin.
As happens with remarkable
frequency in club and other
football, the loss, early, of a
star player seemed to have,
if anything, an inspiring effect
on the remnant, and a dulling
effect on the opposition.
After about a quarter-hour’s
play England five - eighth
Bolton was off with a broken
collarbone. And that was only
part of it. Even earlier, Eng-
land captain Alan Prescott
was nursing an evidently use-,
less right arm: the forearm
broken in the first few minutes.
He stayed on-field to the end,
and wasn’t altogether a pas-
senger, since his captaincy
helped a lot; but he wasn’t
solid prop-forward Prescott
by a long shot.
Despite those, apparently
impossible handicaps, and
injuries to one or two others,
England made the Australian
side look, on the day, with
only an exception or two, a
very mediocre lot. Time and
time again the Australians’
attack went wrong right on
the verge of scoring; and,
apart from a fairly clever one
by Carlson, their tries looked
hard-earned and not particu-
larly brilliant. In contrast,
England’s five tries (two by
Southward, and one each by
Challinor, Sullivan and
Murphy) looked both clever
and easy. For the most part,
they came from brilliant cut-
ting through what consequently
was made to look a clumsy
defence.
In a side which thus rose
splendidly to an occasion names
of best players hardly matter,
but K&ralius (lock-forward,
who moved into injured
Bolton’s place) and especially
half-back Alec Murphy
deserve naming for spectacu-
lar brilliance. Murphy’s con-
sistently dazzling play was
something to remember.
* * *
No doubt it’s merely pass-
ing phase—an eclipse, rather
than an extinction —but on
performance this year Austra-
lian Rugby Union is at a
pretty low spot.
Latest demonstration was
the very solid win by Maoris
in Saturday’s Melbourne Test.
The scores—l3-6 —only partly
.indicate it: the Maoris in their
score had tfiree tries to none.
Try-scorers were Emery,
Koopu and Raureti, with goals
by Walters and Whatarau;
against Australia’s brace of
goals by Donald. Also, Maoris
dominated the * field; they
looked the winners all the way.
Test-results: first (in Bris-
bane) luckily won by Aus-
tralia ; second (in Sydney) a
draw (again with Australia in
luck); third (Melbourne) the
Maoris’ decisive win.
* * *
The Australian Rules cen-
tenary carnival is going great
guns in Melbourne, home of
the national code. In the first
game, last Wednesday, the
Victorian Football Association
defeated Tasmania by eight
points, 15.12-13.16. A fitting
decision; the V.F.A. was
seven to eight points ahead
almost all through the game.
Last time the two met, at the
1956 carnival in Perth, Tas-
mania had walloped the V.F.A
27.22-12.12.
At night, under floodlights,
on the same date, W.A.
defeated S.A. 11.12-7.18, after
leading by one point (6.4-5.9)
at half-time. It was an even
game, too, but S.A. was shock-
ingly inaccurate near goal.
On Thursday Queensland
came from behind with a dash-
ing finish to beat N.S.W.
11.18-11.13 and Australian
Amateurs outplayed Canberra
18.15-9.15.
On Saturday Victoria
(V.F.L.) made a real carnival
of its game with S.A., over-
whelming the weak opposition


BY APPOINTMENT TO
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS,
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHNNIE
WALKER
BORN 7820 STILL GOING STRONG
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.. SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK.
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW. 184.1*
by 118 points, 25.17-7.7. Vic-
toria led 18.7-2.6 at half-time,
and then coasted along.
y.F.L. stars like Barassi,
Whitten, Aylett and Murray
jvere in devastating form.
* * *
“Keima”: A feather in
Queensland’s cap is that it has
provided captains of Australia
in the two' Rugby codes this
year —though both led beaten
teams on Saturday. Des
Connor, rated by some as the
best Rugby Union half-back in
the world today, led Australia
in the second and third Tests
against the Maoris; while
Rugby League front-row for-
ward Brian Davies has led
Australia in the first two Tests
against England. Davies has
been the only Northerner in
Australia’s team for the first
two Tests.
* * *
“C.A.A.”: Claimed as an
Australian record for a- sport-
ing team in the top bracket,
five Pearce brothers are in the
Westralian hockey XI for this
year’s national championships.
A sister, also a hockey-star,
now lives in Victoria as wife
of John Hyde, former Geelong,
Claremont and inter-State foot-
baller.
* * *
Wimbledon Win
No doubt tennis officials
should be elated that Austra-
lians supplied three of the
four semi-finalists in the
Wimbledon m e n’s singles
(might have been all-four had
not Anderson had to retire
injured in his quarter-final)
and that two of them fought-
out the final, with Ashley
Cooper winning the “world
championship” from fellow-
Victorian Neale Fraser.
But is it such a good thing?
Or is Australia’s now long-
term domination killing interest
jn international tennis?
Of course, a Davis Cup
Challenge Round is still a box-
office sellout. So, Australian
tennistocrats are probably too
busy toting-up the receipts to
concede this as anything but
rankest heresy: but wouldn’t
it really be rather a good thing
if Australia came back to the.
field a bit? If, in fact, we
lost the Davis Cup and had
a real battle to regain it?
Few of today’s top inter-
national players were even
a hve last time any country
outside Australia and the
U-S.A. had a look-in on the
pavis Cup. This Australia-
U.S.A. monopoly of the Cup
for something like a genera-
tion has been stifling enough,
but now it seems to be a case
of Australia first, and the rest
nowhere. Certainly this year
was America’s poorest repre-
sentation at Wimbledon (skip-
ping women’s events) since
pre-war days.
The only thing in sight likely
to break this impasse is the
threat that the Russians have
set their sights on international
tennis. Knowing the thorough-
ness with which they tackle
this sort of proposition; the
population they have to pick
from; the State-backing that
will be behind it (leading over-
seas professionals, principally
Australians, have been invited
to come and help); and the
“or-else” training the chosen
will undergo—the first Rus-
sian team to have a serious
lash at Wimbledon and the
Davis Cup should be some-
thing to reckon With. And it
would be just a bit too faceti-
ous to try any doubie-talk
about their players being
“semi-professionals.”
Cooper had by no means
an easy passage. In the very
first round he had an un-
expected tussle to beat an
unseeded English county
player, Geoff Owen —an
R.A.F. pilot. Owen didn’t
give a hoot about his
opponent’s reputation or the
Wimbledon atmosphere, and
took Cooper to 8-10 in the first
set, won the next 6-3 and then
bowed out, 6-4, 6-1. In the
quarter-finals Cooper had
another close go with another
unseeded English player —
Bobby Wilson. Winning the
first two sets —6-4, 6-2 —
Cooper had it in the bag; then
overconfidence or “what-
the-blazes” came to the fore,
and Wilson won the next two,
6- 6-4. Cooper held, and
dropped, three match-points
before clinching the final
set 7-5.
In the semi-final Cooper had
to fight to beat Mervyn Rose
7- 6-2, 6-2, 6-3. In the other
semi-final Neale Fraser beat
Denmark’s K. Nielsen, but
Nielsen made a near-record
for Wimbledon in winning one
set 19-17.
Playing the final, Cooper
had under his belt the con-
fidence and experience born
of a previous Wimbledon final
appearance (Hoad beat him
last year), and seven straight
wins over his opponent,
Fraser. But it was still no
walkover. Fraser took the first,
6-3 ; Cooper the next two, 6-3,
6-4; and the clincher was a
battle that lasted almost as
long as the previous three sets
before Cooper won, 13-11.
Symptomatic of the sort of
rot that can set-in with too-
easy domination of the field,
Cooper and Fraser were beaten
in straight sets in the doubles,
6-4, 6-4, 8-6, by Sweden’s
Davidson and Schmidt; allow-
ing that two good singles
players don’t necessarily make
a good doubles team, they
should not have been beaten.
The American girl Althea
Gibson won the women’s
singles, second year in a row,
beating English lass Angela
Mortimer.
Just quietly, to take a stab
at the future, tennis in Eng-
land, the home of the game,
seems to be on the improve
all round.
* * *
Stuart Mackenzie won his
second successive Diamond
Sculls at Henley, very easily
defeating Russian Olympic
gold-medallist Ivanov. Russia’s
Trud Club evened the score
with a 2y-lengths win over
Australia’s Empire Games
eight in the Grand Challenge
Cup final.
To cap an Australian sports
weekend in England, golfer
Peter Thomson won the British
Open championship from
Welshman Dave Thomas. Both
players finished the 72-hole
championship with scores of
278, and in the play-off Thom-
son had a 36-hoie total of 139
to win by four strokes. In the
last seven years Thomson has
won the Open four times and
been runner-up in the other
three.
* * *
In their scrap for the Aus-
tralian lightweight title, at Mel-
bourne Stadium last Friday,
Max Carlos outpointed George
Bracken, in Bracken’s first de-
fence of the title, which he
won in December, 1956. Carlos,
though without a knockdown
punch, is fast and clever; and
he clearly outboxed Bracken,
repeating a win in an over-
the-limit non-title bout in
Melbourne in April last year.
Carlos is soon to stake his title
against Sydney’s Russell Sands.


start the day right
r.
FT
■m
y U DW* C
E HO6»
iyiRC
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established ZB7B.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STHUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M DOUGLaSS. MALCOLM C. DA Via.
A. C. MAITLAND. Managing Director. N. E. MANiON. Manager-
Branches in all States Agencies in ail Country Centres
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Want*
To buy William Moore's Story
of Australian Art (two vols.), and
Badham's Study of Australian Art.
—6721.
Information Sought
(1) What is the name of the
largest sea reptile of prehistoric
times the remains of which have
been found in Australia ? m (2) Its
dimensions ?
(1) The largest one recorded
from Australia is Ktonosaurus
queenslandica, collected from
cretaceous rocks in Queensland and
described in 1924 by H. Longman,
then Director of the Brisbane
Museum. This giant plesiosaur was
originally described from portion
ol a skull with several teeth, and
their size demonstrated the exist-
ence in the Queensland cretaceous
sea, about 127-million years ago,
of a sea reptile far larger than
any on record. In 1931 W. Schevill,
of the Harvard Museum of Com-
parative Zoology, discovered a
partially exposed skeleton in crer
taceous rocks at Army Downs
(N.Q.), which proved to be
Kronosaurus queenslandica Long-
man. It is a complete skeleton
42ft. long, the head 10ft. long, and
it has 80 long, spiked teeth.
* • * *
Some details concerning the
legend of “Pelorus Jack’'' ?
“Pelorus Jack” is not a legend.
He was a Grampus griseus, or
Risso’s dolphin, about 14ft. in
length and bluish-white in color.
For about 30 years he was known
to seafaring men in Cook Strait
(M.L.). During that time he met
practically every steamer, day and
night, on the Nelson-Weilington
run and escorted each one, leaping
or gambolling under the bows for
about 20 minutes. He was shot-
at a few times until the MX.
Government stepped-in and pro-
tected him by an Order-in-Council.
Sometimes he would disappear tor
a few weeks, and his reappearance
was always hailed with joy and
relief. In April, 1912, he disap-
peared and has not been seen
since.
Were there two poets named
Thomas Hood? If so, which of
them achieved the more lasting
fame ?
Yes; it was the father whose
name is best known. He was born
in London in 1799. The son of
a Scottish bookseller, he started
work in a counting-house at 13,
but a threat to his health sent him
to Dundee for three years. When
he returned to London he became
an engraver, and the knowledge of
drawing he acquired in this
capacity he later turned to good
account in illustrating his own
comic writings. At 22 he became
sub-editor of the “London Maga-
zine,” where he met De Quincey,
“Give me these old nostalgic fashions every time!"
Lamb, Hazlitt and other literary
figures.
His first publication was Odes
and Addresses to Great People, in
1825. Ihe following year his
Whims and Oddities appeared. He
founded the Comic Annual, which
he continued for nine years, and
he wrote in The Gem his poem
“Eugene Aram.” His novel, Tylney
Hall, was only partly successful.
He is best remembered for his
comic poems, which are shot-
through with puns, but his other
qualities are well shown in such
poems as "The Song of the Shirt”
and “The Bridge of Sighs.” He
died at 46.
Like his father, Thomas Hood,
jnr., had the gift for humorous
verse, and was a clever parodist.
Born in 1835, he was educated at
University College School, Lon-
don, and at Oxford. After five
years as a clerk at the War Office
he became editor of the comic
paper “Fun.” His first published
poem, “Farewell to the Swallows,”
appeared in 1853, and his first
book, Pen and Pencil Pictures, four
years later. Of his half-dozen
novels, Captain Master's Children
was the most successful. His Rules
of Rhyme is a guide to versifica-
tion. In 1867 he started Tom
Hood's Annual, which was con-
tinued after his death in 1874. In
1877 a collection of his verse,
Favorite Poems, was edited by bis
sister.
• * * *
Causes and treatment of feather-
eating in fowls?
This pernicious habit is mostly
found among fowls that have been
on heating and stimulant foods and
kept closely confined. Laziness
from repletion and lack of health-
promoting activity often start it,
and when a bird in a batch begins
the practice others retaliate.
Change the diet, giving abund-
ance of green food, put short straw
on the floor and bury their corn
to make the birds scratch for a
living. Also hang up their green
food in bunches on a string and
make them jump to get it.
Feather-plucking is easily cured if
the bird that does it is looked for
and when located treated surgically
by having the curved tip of her
upper mandible clipped. This will
not interfere with her feeding, but
it will prevent her getting a grip
on the feathers.
* • * •
Particulars of the island of
Mauritius ? When was it first
discovered ?
The island was known to Arab
navigators not later than the 10th
century, was no doubt visited by
Malays in the 15th century, and
was discovered by the Portuguese
between 1507 and 1512, but the
first settlers were the Dutch in
1598. In 1710 they abandoned the
island and it was occupied by the
French under the name of Isle de
France in 1715. The British occu-
pied it in 1810, and it was formally
ceded to Great Britain by the
Treaty of Paris in 1814. The island
is about 500 miles east of Mada-
gascar, has an area of about 720
square-miles and a population
(estimated in 1939) of 419,059,
including 12,144 in the dependen-
cies. Staple exports include sugar,
copra and poonac, and aloe fibre.
* * * •
What tackle do 1 require jot
black-bream fishing in Sydney
Harbor?
Most satisfactory outfit would be
No. 3 or No. 4 gut, 80yds.; No.
103 casts; size 1/0 hooks, fine
steel. Fish with a sinker as small
as possible, and if the tide allows
it none at all. Have the bottom
hook rigged about 18in. below the
sinker, which should be of the run-
ning type. The best tide is from
half-in to half-out, and the most
satisfactory baits are prawns and
mullet-gut.
• * • •
(1) A few details of the mar-
supial tiger? (2) Habitat? (3)
Is it possible to see one anywherel
(1) The marsupial wolf or tiger
is probably the largest flesh-eating
marsupial that ever lived, equalling
the size of a cattle-dog. It is
known as marsupial ‘'wolf” because
of the resemblance developed by
similar habits, and as the “tiger”
because of its colored protection
stripes. It naturally preys on native
animals, but is hunted almost to
extinction because it destroys
poultry and sheep. It threatens
man only if cornered, but fights
dogs to the death. Usually four
young are carried in the mother’s
pouch. (2) It inhabits rocky
caverns in deep gullies in Tas-
mania, having become extinct on
the Australian mainland. (3)
Because of nocturnal habits and
rarity it is seldom seen in the wild
.state, but there have been speci-
mens in Taronga, and, until
recently, it was always to be seen
in the Hobart Zoo.
* * * *
(1) Where do mirages occur, and
what are common forms? (2)
Causes ?
(1) In arid parts of Australia and
other countries in the form of
lakes; in the images of ships and
icebergs, frequently seen as if
inverted and suspended in the
atmosphere. There are also the
Fata Morgana, seen in the Straits
of Messina, and “looming,” a*
witnessed in mists or fogs. (2)
Regarding visionary lakes, the heat-
ing of the sand by the solar rays
causes the neighboring air t°
expand. When an object is viewed
across such an area two sets ot
rays operate, and the object
appears double; it is the sky, like
a shining lake, that it seen mirrored
in the sand.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorcfj.
TO ELWOOD NEVILLE BUCKMAN
late of 85 Hampden Road Artarinon in
the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that . WINIFRED HELEN
BUCKMAN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2105 of 1957 on the ground
of adultery If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney on or
before the Ist day of September 1958
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from BRUCE R. MILES,
Solicitor, 250 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
1
«
it
H
& round-the-world
flights every week
To simplify your travel
problems, two great air-
lines have combined to
give you an almost
daily choice of round-
the-world flights.
Four flights a week head
East via Honolulu, San
Francisco and New York
—four a week go West
via Singapore, Rome and
London. Whichever
direction you want to go,
whatever your reason for
travelling, you will
appreciate the way
QANTAS-8.0.A.C. look
after you at every stage,
both in the air and on
the ground, right around
the globe.
Ask your travel agent to
tell you more about the
Q ANT AS - 8.0.A.C.
round-the-world route.
mm
AUSTRALIA'S ROUNO-THt-WOALO AIRUNt
«£-■■■. IB
with BO AC
JQ6.82.56A
Brief Answers
G.L.: It would seem your luck’s
in; the plot of that particular
story is, as far as can be ascer-
tained, unknown... .X.X.: Enable
to find any details K.W.S.:
Source of the quotation unknown.
....R.F.: The lines are from R. W.
Emerson’s “Boston Hymn”....
D.R.8.: (1) Pure malleable copper-
deposits on the cathode (lead
plates) of the primary voltaic cell
come from the partial electrolytic
corrosion of the anode (copper-
alloy rods). So it’s not new copper-
concentrate, but simply copper
particles transferred by electrolysis
from the partly corroded rods to
the plates during the supply of
current in the chemical solution of
Epsom - salts, sulphate - of - copper
and water. Rods or plates are
6craped clean from time to time,
but when completely eaten-away,
the cell ceases to function. These
cells aren’t very useful now
Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims which state the
section in which paragraphs
appear and the date of
appearance will be paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
because of their low power—
motor-car batteries or a small
dynamo would meet any electrical
purpose on a station much more
practicably. (2) Pure copper is
produced commercially by two
methods only; fire and elec-
trolysis. A very high current at low
voltage is required in the latter
process. (From “P.0.M.C.”)
8.5. C.: To prevent the corrosion
of bronze, existing deposits of rust
should be cleaned off, either by
sand-blasting or a suitable metal-
cleaner, and the article should then
be sprayed with a clear lacquer.
• ...T.K.: Rainbow colors of the
primary bow are, starting from the
inside, viojet, indigo, blue, green,
yellow, orange and red; colors in
the secondary bow are in the
reverse order: red inside, violet
outside... .C.N.: No objection
legally, but there may be some
from relatives on religious
grounds.... .L.G.: The substance
can be bought from any chemist
either in liquid or powder form;
it is not expensive N.N.: An
estate in fee simple is an estate in
freehold or absolute ownership....
“•W.: All Test matches and first-
class cricket fixtures in India are
Played on turf wickets... .G.K.8.:
the reason why the Great Comet
doesn’t carry the. name of a dis-
coverer is that when it suddenly
appeared on Sept. 3, 1882, it was
simultaneously seen by so many
People M.H.M.: The inscrip-
uon on the Shakspeare Memorial
utside the N.S.W. Public Library
l a speech by Prospero from
c pL,^ cene I°f “The Tempest.”
•T.’A Actually, there is no
ltierence between porcelain and
ma, the former is the classical
the latter the homely term.
« r ’’ "V,’'.The line, “For Art may
frn,v. j ature cannot miss,” is
ry^,e s,’ s “The Cock and the
Jack Dempsey
from 1 i W °«r'n heavyweight crown
from Jess Willard in July, 1919,
and successfully defended the title
against all-comers until he was out-
pointed by Gene Tunney in 10
rounds on Sept. 23, 1926 F.H.:
Write N.S.W. Agriculture Dept.,
Sydney, lor pamphlet S.M.R.:
In England the change from the
Julian (old-style) calendar to the
Gregorian (new-style) was made in
September, 1752, when the 11 days
from 3rd to 13th (jnc.) were
omitted; Wednesday, Sept. 2, was
immediately followed by Thursday,
Sept. 14 A.M.: Otters are con-
fined to Europe, the Americas and
parts of Africa; there is no authen-
ticated record of their establish-
ment in Australia L.T.S.: The
ship Ly-ee-Moon was wrecked olf
Cape Green, during a fine night,
on May 30, 1886; 76 lives were
lost. She was said to have been
recklessly navigated too close to
shore.... C.B.: Flying Doctor
Calling was written by Ernestine
Hill G.O’L.: The King’s Police
Medal was instituted in 1909 as a
jreward for acts of exceptional
courage and skill or conspicuous
devotion to duty; it is awarded to
officers and men of a police-force
or organised fire-brigade in the
British Commonwealth. No more
than 120 medals may be awarded
in any one year. Bars may be
added for additional services....
S.V.H.: If the slab of marble is
a big one you would be well
advised to send it to a firm special-
ising in the cutting of it; it is
possible to cut it by hand, using
a mild-steel saw and copious
quantities of water and sand as
abrasives; but it is a long and
tedious job K.N.: George Ber-
nard Shaw never visited Australia.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions Voluntar 'y
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
L.M.8.: Everything you’ve ever
read has gone into „ your story;
unfortunately we've read it all, too.
. ...E.H.: Here you go, then:
F.N.: Too right: “it might
make a cheerful page”—in some
quarterly or fortnightly D.1.A.:
Nice, but not one of ours
P. 8.: “Marriage Is Not For Susan”
raised expectations it did not
satisfy... .C.C.: Well, if you find
it hard to write about people
nothing happens to, why not start
robbing banks? G.S.T.O’M.:
Most good racing-stories are
written by people from the horse’s
end; casual punters who write
about races have the same luck as
on the course... .“Sarah D.”: Not
bad, but the girls who get their
men by using the right lipstick are
lpore believable in the ad 5.....
S.S.: That rowing-boat story
sprang a leak 20 years ag0....
“Torina”: Odi et Amo —loved
your accompanying letter, but your
story... .G.S.V.: There is a
theory that the number of people
murdered in detective-stories has
.passed the number of true-lil'e
murders, and is creeping-up on the
deaths in World War I; the figures
for murdered stories aren’t out yet,
but you’ll be represented there.
. ...T.D.: Those agonising cliches.
....F.S.H.: Have another go, and
not so long.
ONE ARMED BANDITS
Bright, shining monßter, for monster
thou art
Though, indeed, thou art so small of
stature—
But a torso with one truncated arm.
I hate thee, I hate thv crippled state,
Thy gaping jaw and multicolored guts
Which are but signs of such an appetite
That waxeth quickly greater as ’tis fed.
Hope is thy stock and to cheat thy
habit;
Ready victims cram and stuff thy belly
’Till thou must needs regurgitate a
mite.;
Though ’tis a tithe of all thou hast
engorged.
This meagre vomit’s deftly sized upon
And when ’tis rashly offered thee again
Thou takest it with evidence of glee.
What manner of thing art thou who
thrivest **
On thine own emission? And now thou
hast
Of all my hard-won monies had the last.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BACK TO STALIN
Tn a summing-up typical of
■*- most British press-reaction
to the Soviet execution of Imre
Nagy and his three colleagues
—-“the horrible last act of the
Hungarian tragedy” —London
“New Statesman” sees it also
as a return to Stalinism—“five
years after Stalin died, two
years after Khrushchev himself
denounced the purges in
sickening detail, the hangman
has again been called in to
remove men who, alive, were a
challenge to orthodoxy”:
“That is the peculiar quality
of this crime. It is not that
four more men have been dis-
patched in the same manner as
Bukharin, Kamenev, Zinoviev,
RajV, Slansky and thousands
more who disagreed with
Stalin. Seven years ago the
killing of Nagy would have
been a routine matter for the
secret police.
“It is that the same terrible
process has been started afresh
by men who know how much
damage was done by Stalin’s
terror. True, they were acces-
sories to it. But they are also
its survivors, who have them-
selves stood in peril of the
secret trial and of death —in
Khrushchev's own phrase—
‘like a dog in the gutter.’
“In the first years after
Stalin died the men who
succeeded him tried to make
amends for the worst excesses.
They opened the prison-camps,
they cut down the police power,
they rehabilitated many of the
innocent and assured their own
people and the outside world
that such ‘arbitrary violations
of Socialist legality’ could never
occur again. This lesson, at
least, seemed to have been
learnt—at a tragically high
price, both in human suffering
and in political mistakes.
“A simple instruction to an
unknown hangman has proven
the contrary. The pompous
explanation of the ‘counter-
revolutionary rising’ for which
Nagy and the others have been
executed is untrue. The Soviet
leaders know perfectly well that
the real responsibility for the
collapse in Hungary lies at
the door of Rakosi and those
in Moscow who maintained
him in power until it was too
late. They know too, as the
world knows, that Nagy has
been killed as a useful ex-
pedient in the campaign against
Tito in particular and ‘revision-
ism’ in general.
“That is what makes this
reversion to Stalinism so
ominous. The doctrine of
‘legality,’ indeed, the ostenta-
tiously new attitude which
reached its climax at the 20ih
Congress, is now reduced to a
sinister farce, permitted only
VICKY. IN LONDON “NEW STATESMAN .”
for reasons of expediency. The
situation has changed, and so
everything that was wrong—the
1948 Cominform resolution
against Tito, for instance —
becomes right again. This is
the nightmare logic of Stalin,
which Khrushchev once re-
jected—and it was his rejec-
tion of it that gave grounds for
hope in the years after Stalin
died.”
American reaction also sees
more significance in the execu-
tion than the deed itself.
“Moreover,” comments “New
York Times” in a typical
editorial view, “as indication of
an even tougher Soviet policy
the Hungarian executions do
not stand alone. There is the
new conflict with Marshal Tito,
designed to force him back into
the Soviet camp. There is the
kidnapping of the nine
American soldiers in Soviet-
occupied East Germany, in
violation of previous Soviet
agreements and practices. There
is, most ominously, the Soviet
effort to drive the West out
of the Middle East through
the machinations of Soviet-
backed President Nasser, now
reaching a new climax in
Lebanon. Finally, there is
Premier Khrushchev's disrup-
tion of diplomatic preparations
for the summit meeting itself,
“Imre Nagy, swept into power
by a spontaneous anti-Soviet
uprising of the Hungarian
people, sought to reach an
amicable agreement with the
Soviets for the withdrawal of
their troops and the liberation
of his country. When that was
frustrated by Soviet treachery
he sought refuge in the Yugo-
slav Embassy, but left it under
a safe-conduct negotiated by
it, only to find that the Soviets
regarded his safe-conduct as
merely another worthless scrap
of paper which did not prevent
his immediate arrest.
“Similarly, General Maleter,
tricked by a Soviet invitation to
the Red Army headquarters to
negotiate for the withdrawal of
the Soviet troops, never
returned from his rendezvous.
“But the implications of the
latest Budapest executions go
far beyond the fate of the indi-
viduals involved, even of
Hungary. It is significant that
the first announcement of the
executions came from Moscow,
which may be taken as proof
that they were ordered by
Moscow. This raises many
questions as to why Moscow
decided to spurn world opinion
at this time after trying so hard
to court it, and what further
dire events may follow.
“Secretary Dulles sees in the
executions a reversion to the
brutal and terroristic methods
of the Stalin era, which would
imply a victory of the Stalinists
in the continuing power-
struggle in the Kremlin. That
would be in line with the new
conflict deliberately precipi-
tated by the Kremlin with
Marshal Tito, to whom the
executions are a special blow
because they are in violation
of his pledged assurances to
Nagy. But they are also a
warning to all would-be
Titoists in Eastern Europe,
especially to Polish leaders like
Gomulka, to toe the new
Kremlin line.
“Finally, as already indicated
by Premier Khrushchev’s latest
note, they may well be meant
to signify the burial of the'
Soviet drive for a new summit
meeting, which the Stalinists
never wanted. On that issue
may hang the fate of Premier
Khrushchev himself.”
TV and the Press
“Yorkshire Post” comment
on the address to members of
the Commonwealth Press
Union by Sir Robert Fraser,
Director-General of Britain’s
Independent Television
Authority—who “seemed to be
baffled by the frequent phrase,
‘the challenge of television’”:
“He thought that it was
absurd to raise with bated
breath a vision of the press in
the melting-pot. He claimed
that TV could employ the
spoken word from trusted and
engaging personalities and get
moving-pictures from all over
the world. But it must suffer
from brevity and transience.
“Jn this respect we are
reminded of the advantages of
accessibility and permanent
record enjoyed by the news-
papers, whatever rivals voice a


\
It was a beautiful day, mild and sunny as in
an Australian spring, when I first saw Jerusalem,
cradled in a mountain 2,500 feet above the level
of the sea.
From Beirut, where there had been bloodshed
and rioting, I had crossed into Jordan, in whose
portion of Jerusalem so many of the places of
Christian interest lie.
Barbed wire cuts the Holy City. Sandbags
mark the frontier between Arab and Jew. And
the first thought I had on Jerusalem was that it is
set in a world as turbulent today as it was in the
time of Christ.
But this is a place where Time touches Eternity.
And as the days passed I saw the deeper truth
emerging: Here you see humility, service and
sacrifice enshrined in an age that seems to outspeed
itself in scientific discovery. These ancient walls
have been built and broken down and built upon
again, and Faith survives.
Millions have passed this way. Some have
come in the cause of conquest, others to follow in
the steps of the Humble. Among them were the
Crusaders, with blood to shed and a Faith to save.
And two thousand years after Christ walked
these roads, many of the answers are here to be
found in the message He left to this still troubled
world. Few would dare to project what the world
will be like two thousand years from now, but here
with a sweep of the eye can be seen something that
is constant to every pattern and_every age: the
continuing Faith of men.
So I have sought to look upon Jerusalem, and
on the light it sheds for us, in terms of the future;
not of the past, however great or graphic; not,
indeed, of the present, for Time is an instant.
Christianity demands more from us than a
reverent looking at the past. It demands more than
living complacently to each day as it dawns for us.
In this vital, living world we must have the concept
of aiming and acting to the future.
e.e
7
challenge. People go to hear
an eminent statesman in a
large hall and perhaps hang on
every word. Nevertheless,
they still like to read the printed
record in the morning and any
accompanying descriptive
sketch or editorial comment. .
“In addition, many kinds of
news, such as a stock-exchange
list of transactions, detailed
industrial news and local news
do not lend themselves to radio
or TV programmes, but can be
consulted quickly in a printed
version. This suggests one'of
the weaknesses of the new
authority for distributing news.
Its medium is mainly pictures
and some important kinds of
news do not lend themselves
primarily to pictures. They
demand a quite different idiom.
“Those accustomed to news-
paper-reading are very unlikely
to lose that habit, because they
make demands TV will never
satisfy ; but there is a danger.
Many young people are grow-
ing up with a fervent devotion
to the new one-eyed oracle
(we do not wish to call it the
one-eyed monster, since so
much of what it does is
admirably done).
“They are liable to be domi-
nated by this oracle’s concep-
tion of news, and the concep-
tion is inevitably much more
limited than that of our incom-
parably varied press, notably in
dealing with significant local
news. Fleet Street, and all the
lesser Fleet Streets, have not
merely an unchanged role.
They have also an unchallenged
mission. The press and TV
may be sisters under the skin,
but they have very different
jobs.”
Cyprus
Commenting on the latest
British proposals to end the
bitterness and bloodshed in
Cyprus, London “Economist”
found that “in one vital respect
they do not prove to be a move
in the direction in which official
British policy had been thought
to be turning”:
. “No indication is given that
the British Government has any
intention of surrendering its
sovereignty over Cyprus—only,
perhaps, of sharing it. Nor
is there any suggestion that the
people of Cyprus might them-
selves be at any time allowed
to choose their future status —
even to the limited extent of a
choice between independence
within or outside the Com-
monwealth, or a Greco-Turkish
condominium.
The only definitive status
that is, envisaged for them is
under a tripartite condominium
of Greece, Turkey and Britain
that the British Government
would be prepared to set up ‘at
the appropriate time’ (but,
apparently not in less than
seven years). Under this regime
it is envisaged that whatever
base-facilities Britain then feels
it necessary to retain should
remain under sole British
sovereignty.
“This proposal in effect rules
out enosis [union with Greece]
and partition [between Greek
and Turkish Cypriots] equally.
It is a pity, perhaps, that the
exclusion of both alternatives
is not stated more categorically,
instead of being merely im-
plied. The [British] Govern-
ment might have argued that to
be more positive might only
make the present tension worse.
It can, however, equally be
argued that so long as the
extreme advocates of both
enosis and partition believe
that their own particular door
has not been slammed in their
faces, they will continue to
hammer on it and refuse to
consider any alternative. In
that case the hope must be that
the agitation of the two sets
of extremists will, as it were,
cancel-out by making it over-
whelmingly clear to a growing
body of opinion in the island,
as well as in Athens and
Ankara, that the middle road
of partnership is the only sane
road to take.”
The British proposals having
been rejected, the extremists are
once more hard at the “can-
celling-out” process, but, as
the following British and
U.S. press comment suggests,
they are likely to go a long
way along the road before
taking to the middle of it.
* * *
London ‘'Time and Tide”:
“Cyprus is a graveyard of
liberal theories, a classic
tragedy of our time. A few
short years ago it was an
idyllic island in the sun; its
problems were there, of course,
but they could be discussed
lazily and without bitterness.
Now the streets B and the
mountains are alive with
soldiers: the police-stations have
been turned into fortresses:
the stormy petrels of journalism
have flown in from all over
the world to join the tense
inhabitants in these last hours
before what they all believe to
be an almost inevitable explo-
sion. And the spark in the
powder-barrel? Nothing less
than a meticulously balanced
scheme drawn-up by highly
intelligent people with the
utmost consideration for all the
interests involved, and designed


Estab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and. Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JA.CKSON &
■b. o’SULIJVANj
!p pty ltd .
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
••JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
solely to restore peace in the
island.”
• • • •
The same: “Cyprus is a
tragedy of goodwill. The
Greeks had, and in spite of
everything still have, a
romantic improbable love of
the English. The Turks have
become Britain’s staunchest
allies in the Near East and
ask nothing more than that
the British should retain their
present position in Cyprus. And
Britain has not, as Archbishop
Makarios suggests, been plot-
ting in a Machiavellian way
to divide, and rule: on the
contrary, the British woke up
too late to find themselves
engulfed in a rising tide of
hatred which bewildered them
because they could see no
rational cause for it.
“There was no rational cause
for it. The antagonisms which
underlie the Cyprus impasse
are no more susceptible to
reason than those which divide
the Jews and the Arabs. The
comfortable liberal theory that
all human conflicts can and
should be settled by quiet, calm
deliberation round a table
begins to look very threadbare.
If one lesson has emerged un-
mistakably from the blood-.,
stained story of the past few
years it is that bomb-throwing,
murder and terrorism pay divi-
dends: the Greek Cypriots
learned this first, the Turks
learned it later but well. The
corollary, of course, is further
proof that British colonialism
is not the harsh tyranny its
enemies make it out to be. If
the Russians ruled Cyprus,
there would be no Cyprus
question.”
* * *
“New York Times” editorial
comment: “Partition would be
an extremely bad ‘solution’ to
the problem. All that one can
say of it is that in certain places
in the world —Ireland, Korea,
Vietnam, Kashmir a point
was reached where any alterna-
tive to partition would have
been still worse. That point
may yet be reached in Cyprus,
but all parties to the conflict
should be considering and
working for a more satisfactory
and peaceful solution.”
* * *
C. L. Sulzberger, in “ N.Y .
Times”: “The British, who
held the colony [Cyprus] long
after it ceased to have real
importance for them, are now
prepared to dispose of it in
almost any way acceptable to
both the Greeks and the Turks.
But those two peoples, inflamed
beyond reason and harking
back to centuries of religious
quarreling, are no longer even
prepared to agree the earth is
round.
“The Cyprus argument is
founded on emotion, not
reason. It is compounded by
poppycock. For example, there
is London's bland assertion the
territory was never Greek
which happily ignores Byzan-
tine history. There is the claim
the island is a strategically
important British base. This
is denied by two secret
Admiralty surveys whose logic
was later confirmed during
the Suez war.
“Greek chauvinists are
equally irrational. They adduce
‘statistics’ purporting to prove
that Hellenic Cypriots lead an
unhappy, miserable life under
British rule. This simply isn’t
true.
“And the slow-burning l urks
have taken a stand inferior to
none in pyrotechnics. They
want to partition the area into
neat demographic segments
that never before existed. This
would create a cancer from
the sore. What is the point of
establishing in the Mediterra-
nean a replica of partitioned
India and Palestine?”
• • •
The same : “All we can hope
for is that Nato may find a
temporary solution a little more
supportable to Athens and An-
kara than what now prevails,
and a little less intolerable than
what each of them suggest. The
British formula is probably
the nearest thing to a stopgap
that can be devised at this late
instant.
“At least it would tempo-
rarily still both Greek dreams
of enosis and Turkish dreams
of partition, either of which
can start a Balkan war. Not
only would a cooling-off
period be provided, but Britain
would be obligated to develop
the airfields which represent the
island’s only military value and
which backstop the hub of
Turkish mainland defences. It
would keep available to
London a staging-base near
Kuwait and the Persian Gulf
—useful until that unsteady
area is calmed.
“Will the Greeks and the
Turks like this? No. Have
they anything better to offer
that can be accepted? No.
One can merely pray that the
common Allied interest will
prevail over nationalistic
frenzies. Otherwise Cyprus will
develop into the handsomest
present for the Kremlin since
the gloom of Suez.”
* * *
London “Observer” ; “The
British Government should
make two things clear to the
world. First, Britain cannot
and must not leave Cyprus until
some settlement has been
reached which will protect the
lives of the Cypriots. One
Palestine story is enough.
Secondly, Britain no longer has
any reason or desire to retain
permanent sovereignty over
the island. If a base is really
needed, it should be a Nato
base and not a British one.
Everything possible should
now be done to internationalise
this dispute.”
Nasser Wary?
“New York Times” editorial
comment on Nasser’s reported
wariness since his return from
Moscow:
“One reason for this wariness
seems to be what we might call
the Yugoslav lesson. Moscow’s
recent virtual cancellation of
its $285 million credit to Bel-
grade has shown that there are
strong political strings indeed
on the Soviet aid-programme.
It has recently been announced
that Nasser will visit Yugo-
slavia. This can hardly bring
glee to Moscow.
“We may speculate, too, that
President Nasser’s growing
wariness has been aided by
some of his observations in the
Soviet Union. He was per-
mitted to make a short visit
to Soviet Uzbekistan. There he
could see for himself that one
of the oldest world centres of
Moslem civilisation is now
under the control of an alien
people.
“Nasser has often assayed
‘imperialist’ control of Mos-
lems in the Middle East. He
can hardly have been under
any illusions as to the nature
of Moscow’s control in Uz-
bekistan.”
Russia and Tito
The Yugoslav-Russia break,
as seen by New York “Herald
Tribune”:
“The Soviet has broken
two signed pledges with Yugo-
slavia: (1) not to molest its
pursuit of a ‘separate path to
Socialism,’ (2) to provide it
$285 million in economic aid.
“Now Yugoslavia is taking
the novel position that signed
agreements are contracts with
the binding force of law, and
that any unilateral breaking of
such contracts constitutes an
injury, for which the injured
party has a recourse.
“It dispatched a note of
protest to Moscow, saying:
“If the Soviet Government
does not accept the here-out-
lined Yugoslav attitude, the
Yugoslav Government will be
forced to make a demand for
compensation for the caused
damage.’
“Unfortunately no World
Supreme Court yet exists where
sovereign nations can be com-
pelled to pay damages for
breach of contract. Neverthe-
less, every appeal to the
sanctity of contract helps build
a moral force toward a world-
system of law. Yugoslavia's
appeal will so help. It will also
demonstrate to Nasser and
others that promises of Soviet
economic aid are kept only if
the recipient also accepts Soviet
control of his policies.”
Suez Traffic
New York “Herald Tribune”
lately republished an editorial
from the Milwaukee (U.S.A.)
“Journal” which, after noting
a report that 200 ships a day
were now passing through Suez,
commented on the dangers of
underestimating the capabilities
of Nasser’s regime.
Such a tendency to under-
estimation no doubt exists, but,


BANKING FACILITIES
Mfu tke famSy.
Jk
«
TO
Whatever you do in life
you will find the prob-
lems of modern living can
be made lighter by the
extra services provided
by this bank.
There is no more convenient way of paying your house-
hold expenses than with a C.B.C. cheque. If you have regular
commitments, such as insurance payments, etc., the bank will
save you time and worry by paying them for you as they
fall due.
Should you travel in this
country or abroad, the bank can
help plan your itinerary and make
your bookings. It can arrange trade
introductions and provide many
other helpful aids to businessmen.
Its friendly advice is available to
all its customers.
As the bank has a savings bank
subsidiary, the one office provides
all the banking facilities required
by the whole family.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
(DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANYI
INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALBB
going by a subsequent letter
to the “Herald Tribune” from
Captain Jan DeVries, master
mariner, of Rotterdam, there
would also seem to be a certain
amount of overestimation re-
garding the Suez traffic:
“Having been closely con-
nected with the operation of
the Suez Canal before super-
man Nasser nationalised that
waterway, I am convinced that
it was, and still is, impossible
to have more than 70 to 75
ships through regularly in 24
hours. The big improvement
programmes ordered by Nasser
and his propaganda boys and
blared out into the world by
his press and radio, have just
been ‘officially’ postponed for
various technical and financial
rea'sons. So, for a long time to
come, there will not be a two-
way canal ready.
“Even admitting that ships
could be spaced only five
minutes apart, with a look on
any Suez Canal map, with a
pencil and half-a-page of a
scrap-pad to scribble on, it is
easy to figure-out. that there are
not enough hours in a day and
night to ‘roll’ 200 ships through
the Suez Canal.”
Red Africa
Past Communist tactics of
dodging from Europe to Asia,
or vice versa, whenever their
activities in one area or the
other have been temporarily
stalemated, would seem to
support the conclusion of
“Diogenes” in London “Time
and Tide” that Africa is next
on their list.
The West having temporarily
“contained the military threat
to Europe,” he comments, “the
[Russian] threat is now directed
mainly against the African con-
tinent, with the Middle East as
the immediate objective—here
Nasser’s necessities and the
Russian strategical plans dove-
tail the one with the other”:
“With the formation of the
‘Arab Republic’ Nasser scored
what to the Arabs seemed an
immense success. With his
Russian visit, and the fulsome
support given to him by the
Russian leaders, he scored
another. In Lebanon the
position is doubtful. Nasser’s
stock in the Middle East is very
high. But he cannot stand still.
He must go on.
“His objectives are now, in
this order, Aden, Saudi Arabia,
Israel. I say ‘in this order,’
because this is the order in
which these issues are likely to
come to a head. But they are
all pursued simultaneously.
The bombs are already
going off in Aden. It "will
not be easy for the British
to stand here. A military con-
flict over Aden would be easily
presentable as a conflict be-
tween Western imperialism and
Arab nationalism. If Aden is
surrendered, the Yemenite Pro-
tectorates would fall to Nasser’s
dominion. That would facili-
tate the loss, to the West, of
Saudi Arabia.
“If Lebanon goes, or if
Saudi Arabia goes, the whole
Middle East will have been
lost to the Nasser-Russia set-
up ; and the stage be cleared
for the attempt to liquidate
Israel.
“If Nasser and the Russians
get their way in the Middle
East the road is open to all
Africa. The Cairo-based com-
mittee for the waging of the
‘nationalist’ war in Algeria,
Tunisia and Morocco will, with
Egyptian and Russian aid, seek .
to bring all North Africa within
the scope of Nasser’s Arab
Empire. And then the aim will
be to raise Black against White
from the Mediterranean to the
Cape.
“The conquest of the Middle
East would cut off the Euro-
pean metropolitan States from
their essential supplies of oil,
except on such terms of
surrender in Europe as the
Russians might and would
dictate. The conquest of North
Africa would prevent European
access to the vast deposits of
oil in the Sahara, which would
otherwise make Europe inde-
pendent of oil from the Middle
East.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Asian Week
In appreciation of Queens-
land’s hospitality, overseas
students in Brisbane have just
put on an “Asian Week” a
fine and appropriate gesture of
goodwill. Something of the
sort is now planned for
Adelaide.
I was able to see only the
last evening’s entertainment —
Eastern music and dancing,
costume parades and so forth
—at Albert Hall. A really
good show, apart from the
educational value, and much
thought and hard work in
planning and rehearsal lifted
it quite above the amateur
level. The audience obviously
enjoyed every minute of it.
What appealed to me par-
ticularly was the happy spirit
of co-operation which had
brought together people of so
many and diverse races and
creeds, to work harmoniously
on this considerable project. On
stage and in the hall I saw
representatives of about every
race from the Punjab to Fiji,
all smiling.
Proceeds go to an overseas
students’ residential college at
Queensland University. Th ; s
has been planned for some time,
and will be a good thing, when
established ; but it may have
one disadvantage. It may to
a small extent hinder the
efforts of Old Australians to
fraternise with these strangers
by making them less dependent
upon us for social life.
Until recently, few of these
people from opposite ends of
Asia ever met. Now they are
mingling in hundreds in Aus-
tralian universities, getting to
know each other, and to know
us,
I doubt, though, that we are
making the most of our oppor-
tunity to get to know them.
It would be interesting to learn
more about the experiences of
overseas students in their social
contacts in Australian univer-
sity towns. Some, I know, who
have the knack of becoming
“one of the gang,” are having
quite a happy time, but what
of the others—those who,
because of ignorance of our
language and customs, or just
because of their own diffidence
and feeling of strangeness, have
not found it easy to “mix”?
These student types are first-
rate chaps. I myself have yet
to meet one who would not
be a welcome guest in my
home, or an acquisition to any
social circle known to me.
Gan we not do more to make
later memories of their stay in
Australia pleasant ones? — Carl
Helmar (Q.).
Locomotives
Despite the admirable (if
expensive) qualities of the
diesel-loco, the bad water and
shortage of coal neither of
which has changed appreciably
over a long period—the fact
remains that the Victorian
“ Blast! The Wrong calibre!”
Railways did base their Opera-
tion Phoenix (the rehabilitation
of the system) on the importa-
tion of no fewer than 130 large
coal-burners, and nobody need
tell me that the news of the
40-year-old diesel had not then
reached Melbourne.
As for “Four Threes’s” state-
ment (B. 9/4/’5B) that the
State has no indigenous loco-
motive-fuel supplies, this is
sheer rubbish. There are
millions of tons of good lignite
which converts easily into elec-
tricity. There are even a few
2400-h.-p. electric-locos, which,
small though they are by
modern standards, offer more
output than the biggest diesels
in the U.S. Yet whether it is
because they do burn indigen-
ous fuel or because they are
not American, they appear to
attract no attention at all and
the present administration
almost gives the impression of
being ashamed of them. —
Transporticus (Singapore).
Modem Retailing
Time-payment finance (hire-
purchase in modern parlance)
has a stranglehold on luxury
commodities, and the majority
of those who fall for the
blandishments of slick salesmen
and the snide blah of radio-
sponsored advertising haven’t
the foggiest notion of what
they’re letting themselves in for
when signing on the dotted
line, and certainly seem to care
less.
Possession of the coveted
article —immediate possession—
is paramount: and to hell with
the crippling debt of purchase
money, insurance, instaUation-
charges, stamp-duty and inci-
dentals, when repayment is
made so easy and spread over
years—at a price.
I’d like to meet a Labor
M.P. who is prepared to advise
his constituents to boycott the
h.-p. gentry until a fairer deal
is on the horizon. But that's
not likely. “The pore pen-
sioner” and “the worker,
harassed and bled by the heart-
less financiers” are always good
material for soap-box and
Parliamentary oratory.
Now, of course, we have the
“Budget Account,” successor
to my old friend “Cash Order,”
born circa 1906, but not so
popular nowadays.
The chief objection to this
method is the interrogation of
his private life to which the
budgetee is subjected they
want to know practically every-
thing except whether he’s Hving
in sin. But the bit I like best
about one agreement to fork-
out that I saw was tucked away
in small print on the reverse
side: a clause that the
“budgetee” will pay “such
charges as the management may
from time to time determine”
—a blank cheque if ever theie
was one. —Y. Mee (N.S.W.).
J " .
Employees on Service
It is bad enough when private
employers are unsympathetic to
workers interested in defence,
but it is inexcusable to
find Government departments
setting up the most rigid
obstacles to their employees.
Admittedly a concession is
made for the part-time C.M.F.
trainee, but let any civil servant
contemplate a term of full-
time training and he suffers
dearly for his patriotism.
Several young fellows I
know signed-on for six years'
naval training. The depart-
ment employing them immedi-
ately demanded their resigna-
tion ; leave-of-absence was
definitely refused. The men’s
superannuation agreement was
cancelled and the only offer of
re-engagement was that they
would be considered, without
preference, in the light of exist-
ing labor trends.
After serving their term, some
of it in Korean waters, they
were re-employed by their
former department, but they
now have to qualify again for
permanency after two years’
probation ; they will then have
to pay for superannuation con-
tributions at a higher rate. The
men have lost six years’
seniority; which means lost
promotion, brings the spectre
of retrenchment nearer in bad
times and affects long-service


AMAZING RESULTS!
bio-vitamin capsules
Contain wonderfully rieli Royal
Jelly.
Each capsule contains adult
daily need of essential vitamins.
Recommended by National Re-
search Council for food nutri-
tion. The Medicinal prepara-
tion in Rio-Vitamin Capsules
relieves* Rheumatoid arthritis
and all Nervous disorder.
At any Chemist . . .
Cavendish Laboratories,
Dept, c, Box 2118 T,
Melbourne, C.l.
NO SINGLE RUM CAN MATCH IT!
O
RED JACK
RUM
BLENDED FROM QUEENSLAND’S
CHOICEST 7-YEAR-OLD
POT-STILL RUMS. NO “SINGLE”
RUM CAN MATCH IT
Specially blended by
John Dewar & Sons Led., Sydney and
Hap-boctle Brown & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney
DWB7
“Got 'em on that far —then found I'd left the
boot-trees in 'em.”
leave. Would they serve a
second term in the Navy? No
fear! They are far enough
behind on the deal already.
Needless to say the young
men are bitterly disinclined to
recommend their experience to
anyone else-—a point the Navy
might be interested in. A lead
from the Government to
preserve the status of employees
who take on full-time defence-
training might solve at least one
recruiting problem. Noah
(Vic.).
Eye Diseases
I am not familiar with the
qualifications required in a
person who wishes as
an optometrist and optician,
but from experience this I do
know—some of those practis-
ing have such a limited know-
ledge of eye-diseases that they
often fail to recognise an
affected eye. This is a grave
danger, and there are people
in Australia blind or near-
blind because their eye-trouble
has not been correctly diag-
nosed.
Take that insidious com-
plaint glaucoma, probably one
of the most damaging eye-
diseases. In its early stages it
is not suspected by the victim,
as it is a creeping complaint,
gradual in its destruction of
the optic nerve.
In my middle-fifties I felt
that I needed glasses. I went
to an optometrist and he duly
prescribed. These glasses
helped a little —not much —
and in 12 months I had another
pair. In three years I had had
six pairs and had been treated
by four optometrists, some of
whom had the most impressive
—even awe-inspiring—equip-
ment.
I finally got an appointment
with a leading Sydney eye-
specialist. His verdict—glau-
coma, and my eyes would
“burst within a fortnight.” An
immediate operation saved me
from total blindness. What
sight I had lost was gone for
ever. Australia has some of
the finest eye-surgeons in the
world, and the research work
of some is recognised over-
seas. But I am disturbed at the
number of people who are
having similar experiences to
mine. Eye-doctors are worried
about the increase in eye-
diseases, especially glaucoma.
Too many people have had
spectacles prescribed when
skilled treatment in the way of
drops, or, in later stages, an
operation was essential.
If at any time there is a haze
or a smokiness in the air during
daytime, or a halo appears
around light bulbs, see an, eye-
doctor immediately—the matter
has become urgent.
I feel it is high time the law
was tightened-up somewhere
along the line, so that no per-
son will be allowed to prescribe
glasses unless he has the quali-
fications to detect disease of
the eye.—R. O. (N.S.W.).
Wharfies and Sugar
Communist leadership is
proving an expensive luxury
for Queensland watersiders.
Years of hat-drop strikes and
union-controlled slow handling
of sugar resulted in the intro-
duction of mechanical bulk-
handling 10 yeafs earlier than
may have been the case.
A huge bulk - terminal
operated at Mackay for the
first time last year with com-
plete success, turning-round
overseas ships in 24 hours—
they had previously taken two
weeks' to load. Lucinda Point
and Bundaberg Ports have
bulk-terminals in operation
this "year.
Townsville follows next year,
and Mourilyan Harbor the year
after. Bowen will cease to be
a sugar port and Cairrts will
remain a “bag port” so long
as part of the overseas market
wants raw sugar in bags.
The key men who operate
these bulk - terminals aie
members of the A.W.U. or the
Federated Engine Drivers’ and
Firemens’ Union. Many of the
displaced wharfies have been
given work in sugar-mills and
are .now members of the
A.W.U. —Wu Foo (Q.).
, '
V.G.’s Valuations
“Peter Simple” (B. 25/6/’5B)
didn’t go far enough in his
criticism of the N.S.W. Valuer-
General’s Department. I
know of cases where properties
have gone for as low as £lOOO
below the fictitious depart-
mental valuation on houses in
the £5OOO-£6OOO bracket —and
sellers have been glad to
accept.
Sales of selected properties
at boosted prices are an unfair
guide to general values. We
often see the case of rival
petrol - companies outbidding


each other for a corner posi-
tion and then demolishing the
premises to make room for
bowsers. More often than not
that depreciates nearby home
values, but not so in the eyes
of the Valuer-General. Appeals
wait for years. But let a pro-
perty owner die and you’ll find
the V.-G. on the spot immedi-
ately—with an amended and in-
variably higher valuation. Then
the local council, the Probate
Office, Stamp Duties Office,
the Water and Drainage Board
all benefit. This has happened
twice in one year to some
properties. — Rorm (N.S.W.).
Hire-purchase
I challenge the statement (B.
4/6/’5B) that “it is untrue to
suggest that banks refuse to
lend on overdraft so that they
may divert custom to a hire-
purchase affiliate, in order to
derive a greater return.”
A. company which has dealt
extensively in subdivisional
land approached one of our
more “respectable” h.-p.
finance - companies in an
attempt to discount equities in
contracts held for the sale of
individual building-lots. The
amount involved was in excess
of £lOO,OOO, which, as the
result of deposits and instal-
ments paid by purchasers,
represented about 50- per cent.
of the value of the land. The
company had been on excellent
terms with its own trading-
bank for many years, and in
normal times could have
obtained an overdraft for at
least 50 per cent, of the face-
value of the security offered.
But credit-control, lack of
funds, and advance policy,
closed this avenue.
Thfe h.-p. company’s offer
was staggering. It required a
registered first-mortgage over
each individual lot, plus an
assignment of each contract,
and the personal guarantee of
the company’s directors. It
would then open an overdraft
account at a suburban branch
of a trading-bank (the one with
a substantial interest in the
h.-p, co.), and the borrowing
company would collect all
instalments and interest, pay
in to the bank and eventually
liquidate the overdraft. The
“charge” for this arrangement
would be 15| per cent, on daily
balances ,per bank statement.
Analysing this proposal it
would appear that the h.-p. co.
was not involved in any risk,
being more than fully secured.
It was also not involved in
any administrative work ; not
even the keeping of interest
records, as the bank’s statement
would do this. It is also prob-
able that the bank’s own
charge to the h.-p. co. for the
overdraft accommodation was
5} per cent. The h.-p. cothere-
fore would make a profit o
percent, interest net on daily
balances. For what?
The borrowing company
would still have been left with
the administration of the
accounts, plus a very solid
legal fee (full scale no doubt)
for the mortgages and assign-
ments, and also Titles Office
fees. These in turn would add
to the overall interest-rate.
Naturally the offer was de-
clined. But the point at issue
is that by this manoeuvre the
purpose for which the finance
was required remained un-
changed. The banks won’t lend
to A but will to B, and B is
not interested in why and what
for. Their only concern is to
be fully covered, and t 6 get
the highest possible return for
the lowest possible effort!
. , ,
As regards the h.-p. com-
pames, I agree that but for their
stampede into the retail-trade
of this country we would now
be in very serious difficulties.
But the service rendered by
them—at a very large cost to
the consumer—might well have
been undertaken on a more
equitable basis by the trading-
banks or some form of co-
operative undertaking. There
should be no room in our
economy for “large profits for
nothing.”—W. H. E. (Vic.).
King O’Malley
Dorothy Catts> in Ki „ g
O’Malley, Man and Statesman,
gj ves a different account of
how O’Malley obtained that
last vote that enabled the
“Torpedo Brigade” to force the
Commonwealth Bank proposal
through caucus (B. 4/6/’5B). I
I quote from the “Sydney
Morning Herald’s” review,
published Oct. 5, 1957:
“He believed so fervently in
the need for a nationally owned
bank that he would let noth-
ing stop in his way—not even
forgery. O’Malley lacked one
vote in caucus' to force Fisher
to move. All his eloquent pro-
selytising .could not win-over
one more member—make one
rooster budge, as he put
it. So he calmly wrote in a proxy
a boye t Sl B nature °f a Labor
S t nt 4 ° n . ea y e ’ /. r . om
he had received a letter.
‘We must have the bank,
brothers,’ said King ; ‘the end
justifies the me ans.’ ’’—George
Beesley (NSW)
. _ _
Judges in Industry
Proposals to “reform” the
arbitration system arise, with
monotonous regularity and
none is more persistent than
the suggestion that the judges
should be replaced by econo-
mists. Carried to its logical
conclusion this reasoning
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 494
■Across
I—Spirit1—Spirit against our unconfirmed report. (6)
4—Cradle singer I ensnare. (8)
9 —N.S.W. town to ostracise,a medical practitioner. (9)
11— Lewis alienated the centre of the fluid American
soldier. (5)
12— Equipment for . weaving the short East Sydney
manuscript. (5) ’ _ ". .
13 — It is intended to quieten down a lady-bird in the post-
office jag, as on a fishhook. (9)
laid against fish-eggs
commanded by Dampier. (7)
16 —Increase the profundity of an
English river writer. (6)
18—An ear to an age. (3)
20 — Change for Les? A resort
in the Azores is recom-
mended. (6)
21 — Reasons for a dictum by
Burl. (7)
23 —He who dies at sea can hardly
expect this continental noble-
man. (9)
26 — Wilhelmina or an infant-at-
law. (5)
27 Greek slave in the hotel quan-
tity of males for auction? (5)
28— Kidman? But you must get
something else instead of getting
his goat. (9)
29 Temperate tax on fashion. (8)
30 — Game device for crossing water
without wet feet. (6)
Down
1— Bone boy like those thirsting for
"blue” humor. (8)
2 Deface Roy Rene with the
genuine marble description. (9)
3 Ruses of such employers. (5)
5 Gun - getter could become
inane. (5)
6 The most sickly-colored Sarah
to behold the cowboy
country. (?)
7 Fasten on to a famous waltz by
Delibes. (5)
8 — Pyramus loved this common
verb. (6)
10—Roy Rene provokes those who
prefer to watch some brilliant
bat-birds. (7)
15 — No grand majestic personage of
our times is more honest. (9)
16 — Wettest polluter of a water
store.- (7)
17 — P oisoned demon even
changed. (9)
19—No time for our S.A. or W.A.
mountain group to cause
unfriendliness. (8)
22 —Melbourne suburb which pro-
duces Hamlet badly. (6)
24 The- Nile for French love. (3)
25 — A character proverbially careful
with his investments in a race-
~ course. (5)
26 — Tooth. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 493


SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
literature
details and
PRICES ON
application
THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest feature*
oi high-priced Imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. Th*
"National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing, Plans,
Music, etc.
Built tniirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Oiiuikuting. Mttnti—
SYDNEY
Melbourne
adelaidk
Perth
W. C. Penfold * Co. tiy. Ltd,
• Norman Brae. Pty. Ltd.
. Vardon Prtoa Ltd.
• Docket Booh Co. (Anil)
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept., ,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME .
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; £ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
“His heart is still at Polar Base."
would eliminate the legal pro-
fession. Psychologists would
deal with criminals; doctors
would consider personal-injury
claims; and other professions
would deal with appropriate
fields of dispute.
The idea is not new. In
every civilisation there have
been people who believed that
maintenance of justice and
order was simple and that any
difficulties were due to the
malignant growth of a legal
profession. But the experiences
of those who have discovered
the arbitrary and unpredict-
able alternative should remind
us of the value of an impartial
tribunal trained to evaluate
fallible evidence.
Economists can supply valu-
able information to the Arbi-
tration Commission, but, in
this subject as in all the
social sciences, the distinction
between fact and hypothesis
tends to become blurred. A
tribunal composed of econo-
mists might find it increasingly
difficult to reach objective
conclusions uninfluenced by
subjective beliefs.
Indeed, it should be emphas-
ised that the Arbitration
Commission is not concerned
solely with economic welfare.
The judges must be able to
appreciate the expert evidence
of the economists, but they
may reject it, as they may reject
the evidence of psychologists,
if its acceptance .would
endanger some basic human
freedom. The danger of a
specialist tribunal is fhat it
Will concentrate on abstract
principles at the expense of
immediate . realities. — MacD.
(Vic.).
Communism in Asia
In referring to Communism
as “a phase in the development
of backward countries,” I did
not attempt to dismiss it, as
“C.E.W.” (B. 18/6/’5B) seems
to think ; nor did I mean that
every backward country must
necessarily pass through that
phase. The economic socialism
with which Russia and China
are experimenting is a rela-
tively new thing, and several
great nations were well on the
way. to modernism, economi-
cally and politically, before it
appeared. But dictatorship and
tyranny are not new, and most
peoples have suffered them.
Political modernity in Asia
has yet to prove itself able to
- stand alone. Even in India it
‘is still shaky. In other Asian
1 countries, which were not so
long or so closely under
Western political tutelage, time
may show that the people are
not yet ready for full demo-
cracy, and some modification
may have to be adopted.
As for the future of China,
I plead guilty to “C.E.W.’s”
charge of “wishful thinking.”
Greater prophets than I have
“let the wish be father to the
thought.” Some of them have
been right. However, I am not
optimistic enough to hope for
any early change in China.
Mao has no intention of drop-
ping reins or whip, but he will
take his own road. Russia
dare not force him into line
until after the West has been
subdued. I think Mao is shrewd
enough to realise that, and will
therefore not fall into the trap
of assisting in China’s subju-
gation unless some stupidity of
Western diplomacy pushes him
over the edge.— Jas. Macansh
(Q.).
Sport and TV . '
I agree with “Frangeo” (B.
25/6/’5B) about the attitude of
the Rugby League ruling-body
in not allowing Sydney TV-
stations the right to televise
the first Test because they
would not pay the fantastic
suVn of £2OOO. Surely the
League could allow TV-stations
(at a lower fee) to televise the
game for the benefit of League
patrons who are in hospital
or unable to attend the match.
One instance of hospital
interest in the game was at
Balmoral Naval Hospital a
while back. When it was pro-
posed that the Test should be
televised the patients drew for
seats_ around the TV-set.
Another point is on the
feminine side: 33 per cent, of
patrons who attend Saturday
club-games are women. Not
everyone at a Test can get a
seat in the stands, and it’s a
bit much to expect a woman to
stand from the early hours of
the morning to when the main
game finishes.
Incidentally, the N.S.W.
Rugby Union charges only a
guinea a fixture not a bad
jump from a guinea to £2OOO,
which the League wants I
Katsa (N.S.W.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
COWS AND THEIR HORMONES
W. G. WHITTLESTONE
|“\nce upon a time I had an
argument by correspond-
ence with a famous American
scientist about the way cows
let down their milk. I had
obtained some results which
did not agree with his theories.
At last the great man visited •
New Zealand, and I had a
chance to talk to him. I
showed him the results from
my experiments. He took one
look and said in surprise,
‘‘These doggone cows are
funny critters, aren’t they?”
With this remark I agree
wholeheartedly. Cows are
indeed funny critters, and
quite a portion of my life has
been devoted to trying to find
out what makes them so funny.
Often when we see a friend
behaving in an odd way—par-
ticularly in the spring—we may
comment about the way his
hormones have got him: It’s
the same with cows—it’s the
hormones which make them
so funny. Hormones play a
big part in the life of every
It is reported that
world wool consump-
tion is steadily over-
taking the present
rate of production.
According to experts
the continued expan-
sion in consumption
may cause a lack of
wool this year to meet
the demand. This
means that there is an
even greater „ need
than ever to safe-
guard lambs. One
way to do this is to
mark and tail them
only by Elastrator
Rubber Rings which
reduce the risk of fly
strike and disease thus
minimising losses.
dairy cow, and, for that matter,
every mammal.
There is a most interesting
gland at the base of the brain
called the pituitary gland. In
old times the body was
thought to be controlled by
the four humors —blood,
yellow bile, black bile and
phlegm.
The pituitary gland was
thought to collect phlegm
(pituita) from the brain via a
funnel ( infundibulum) at the
base of the brain. Later
scholars thought that the
pituitary gland controlled all
the humors, so that it was in
a way the seat of the soul.
With the advance of know-
ledge these quaint theories
went out of fashion and more
precise but limited knowledge
took their place. But, as so
often happens, we are coming
back to a view of the pituitary
gland which is not far removed
in many ways from the old
idea that it controlled the
humors and so was the cause,
of our differences in tempera-
ment ; whether we are
sanguine, melancholic, phleg-
matic or choleric in our out-
look and behavior.
One modern endocrinologist
described the pituitary gland as
the conductor of the endocrine
orchestra ; a very apt descrip-
tion.
Before discussing the pituit-
ary gland, perhaps a hormone
should be defined. The hor-
mones are chemical mes-
sengers. They are produced by
various ductless glands
throughout the body in
response to the body’s needs,
and they flow around the
bloodstream, acting on the
appropriate organ.
A simple example of a hor-
mone in action is the pituitary
antidiuretic hormone, which
regulates the kidneys. If a man
takes in, say, six pints of water
(or —more likely—beer) the
blood will become diluted
slightly. This is measured by
the special organs in the lower
part of the brain, and these
send a signal to the pituitary,
which responds by reducing
the secretion of the anti-
diuretic hormone (called ADH
for short) and so permitting
the kidneys to release more
water.
If, on the other hand, a man
has a feed of salty herrings,
the reverse will happen, and
more ADH will be released
to conserve the water in the
blood and stop the salt-
concentration from rising.
There are many hormones,
which control growth-rate anti
other things; oxytocin, which
acts on the uterus (and mam-
mary gland); thyroxine, which
“Nobody here Was ever at Rorhe's Drift.”
controls the rate at which our
bodies work, and so on.
All these substances are
chemical messengers wnich
speed round the bloodstream
giving their orders to the right
organs at the right time. Most
of the glands which release
the hormones are under the
control of the pituitary in one
way or another. So we see that
the humors (hormones) are
indeed controlled by this
strange organ at the base of
the brain.
The pituitary gland origin-
ates in the growing organism
from two sources the roof
of the mouth and the brain.
What we call the anterior
pituitary grows up from the
mouth, while the posterior
lobe comes down from the
brain, and the two portions are
squeezed together in a bony
pocket above the roof of the
mouth.
As becomes its importance,
the pituitary is the best-
protected gland in the body.
As we would expect from the
origins, the posterior part is
made-up of nervous tissues and
the other part comes from the
body-tissue (ectoderm). The
anterior pituitary secretes hor-
mones which are slow in
action and which have an
enormous effect on the
animal’s development.
The growth-hormone is a
case in point; it controls
growth-rate, and too much
produces the sort of giants we
see at the. circus. Too little,
of course, makes a dwarf.
The lactogenic hormone con-
trols milk-production. Then
there are the trophic hormones
■—substances which do not act
on parts of the body , directly
but act on other giands.
The thyrotrophic hormone
is a case in point. If acts
to make the thyroid (a gland
in the throat which, when
enlarged, makes a “goitre’)
control the release ot
thyroxine.
The hormones called
“gonadotrophins” are also ot
pituitary origin. These con-
trol the level of action of the
reproductive system. If the
poets are to be believed, these
substances are at £ high level
in the springtime, probably a*
a result of the increase in th e
number of hours of daylight.
We all know that if we use
artificial light in the hen*
house we can get more egg •
It seems probable that tft
romantic character of
springtime can be attribu e


Bmj a
QuaSttf
STORM LANTERN
and get value for
money! Gives 12 hours
brilliant light on only
pints of kerosene. Abso-
lutely wind and weather-
proof. A Reflector is
available as an extra If
required.
And 100% British Made too!
i
\ 300 Candlepower j
\ I
Model X 246
St?the dMetetice!
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores throughout Australia,
In ease of difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE :
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
to more sunlight, which, in
turn, causes more secretion of
gonadotrophic hormone.
Though, clearly, it is not as
simple as this. Elvis Presley
seems to have a high gonado-
trophin level throughout the
whole year.
The posterior pituitary is
quite different in its action.
It is directly connected with
the brain, and the substances
which it secretes into the
bloodstream are manufactured
in the brain itself. The dis-
covery that the brain secretes
hormones which are stored in
the pituitary is recent. Very
few of us think of the brain
as a secfeting organ, but there
is no doubt that it is. Up
in the part of the brain called
the hypothalamus are nests of
nerve-cells which produce
hormones. These diffuse down
the nerve-fibres leading to the
posterior pituitary gland and
are stored there.
Some of the activities of
these substances have been
known for a long time. For
instance, if a posterior pituit-
ary extract is injected into a
lactating animal, milk is
ejected; the uterus also con-
tracts and the output of urine
is reduced. Recently two
extremely active, complicated
substances have been isolated
from the posterior pituitary.
One of them makes the uterus
contract and ejects milk ; the
other one has more activities
as it can eject milk, contract
the uterus and stop urine pro-
duction. Quite recently an
Australian scientist, Dr. Ross
Hawker, of Brisbane, has
discovered a third substance
in the posterior lobe which
contracts the uterus. It all
seems so complicated and yet
before we can understand what
makes the cow (or man) such
a funny critter it is necessary
to understand all these things.
Two activities of the pituit-
ary gland have been mentioned
which are of direct interest
to the dairyfarmer—the lacto-
genic hormone, which controls
milk secretion, and the sub-
stances which cause the milk
to be ejected. Before we dis-
cuss these in the light of the
farmer’s problems in the cow-
shed, there are some more
important things about ,hor-
mones which we should
understand.
The hormones which come
bom the posterior pituitary
Stand are made by nerve-cells.
When they are released they
act very quickly. For instance,
when a sow ejects her milk,
within about 30sec. to 60sec.
atter stimulation by the little
pigs, the milk is ejected and
the hormone only acts for
another 60sec. before it
goes out of action. Now, the
sow has no storage-space, so
the little pigs hive to guzzle
very fast to get their tucker
before the flow stops. That’s
why their eating-habits are so
shocking. Similarly, the
uterine-contracting action
(oxytocic) is quick ; the hor-
mone produces an immediate
effect—unlike the hormones of
the anterior lobe, which are
very slow.
There is another gland, also
originating in the nervous-
system, which also produces a
fast-acting hormone. It is the
adrenal medulla. It produces
adrenaline, which prepares the
body for action. It is the sub-
stance which makes it possible
for an otherwise inactive per-
son to clear a five-bar gate
when a Lull comes around. It
is the substance which gives
us courage when we face such
situations of stress caused by
anger or fear. It mobilises the
body for action and puts out
of action the immediately
unnecessary functions such as
digestion (and milk-ejection).
For this reason one should
never discuss one’s income-tax
with an official after lunch —it
will have an appalling effect
on the digestive processes.
Mild sedation with alcohol
before such an interview is
recommended.
This is a big enough dose
of facts for one article. It is
no doubt confusing and hard
to see how all the things dis-
cussed could possibly help a
farmer to milk his cows more
efficiently. But in a later article
I will fit all these things
together into a scheme which is
of great help to the practical
man.
T.B. Compensation
“Joe”: Recent amendments
tq the Queensland Stock Acts
now provide for payment of
compensation to farmers whose >
cattle have been condemned as
t.b. reactors, before the con-
demned animals are replaced.
Under the previous legisla-
tion it was necessary for con-
demned animals to be replaced
before compensation was paid.
If owners were unable to get
replacements they got no
compensation.
Now, farmers can get com-
pensation' as soon as reacting
animals are destroyed, follow-
ing an official order to destroy,
provided that the payment of
assessment levied on milk or
cream is not more than six
months in arrears at the time of
condemnation.
Applications for compensa-
tion for cattle killed before
January 1, 1958, should be
made (through district
veterinary officers) before
December 31. Claims for cattle
killed after January 1, 1958,
must be made within 12 months
from the date of the order
to destroy.
Autumn Shearing
“Ymar”: For the past three
or four years increasing
numbers -of graziers in the
Harrow district of western Vic-
toria have been shearing their
flocks in autumn, claiming such
decided advantages as less time
lost through rain, cleaner sheep,
no mud-problem, and lower
contract-rates for the pick of
shearers in this usually off-
season.
Moreover, as. one who tried
it insists, sheep shorn even'in
early winter, when the weather
is uniformly cold, do not suffer
the sudden and disastrous cold
snaps often encountered after
spring shearing.
A mass test, begun at the end
of February this year, and held
to be the greatest shearing
experiment to date, has now
been conducted in the Caster-
ton, Balmoral and Harrow
districts, where, with the co-
operation of shearing-con-
tractor Con McKenna, a 16-
stand team had, during March,
April and May, shorn 30,000
sheep.
Prices - for these autumn-
shorn clips in the end-of-
season sales are being closely
Watched, but the general
opinion is that results here will
justify a general break with
the Western District’s century-
old tradition of shearing in
September, October and
November.
Renovating Lucerne
“Billjim”: Lucerne - stands
benefit from periodic renova-
tion.
Standard treatment is culti-
vation, which, on heavy soils,
breaks-up the surface crust and
allows rain to penetrate more


easily. It mixes plant- and
animal-residues with the top-
soil and hastens their break-
down to humus and other food
materials; also, a bed is pre-
pared for seed lying on the
surface, and the formation of
new roots is encouraged.
But probably the most im-
portant thing is to control
annual grasses, such as barley,
which thicken-up as soil-
fertility is raised. This has a
lot to do with lucerne-survival
in drier districts.
Excellent results are obtained
by using a spring-tine culti-
vator or combine with 2in. or
4in. shares. The ground must
be moist when worked, so just
after the early rains is a good
time to do it. Cultivate to a
depth of 3in. If a combine is
used, super, can be added m
the same operation.
Renovation isn’t usually
required, until the third year,
and then is advisable every
year or at least in alternate
years.
Wool Futures
The Wool Issue (B. 28/5/’5B)
had an article describing the
operations of the wool-futures
market, and particularly stress-
ing the benefits which growers
would derive by this means of
insuring against a fall in price
whilst their wool awaited sale.
May I state a viewpoint
believed to be held by a
majority of growers?
The fact is that they
seriously doubt whether the
futures market, in the overall
sense, operates to their advan-
tage. Many are convinced that
it possesses undesirable
features which operate to their
detriment. That is probably
the main reason why wool-
growers very rarely deal in
futures. It is true to say that
many people in the wool trade
share these beliefs. They deal
in futures when necessary, but
recognise that they are an
equally convenient means of
undesirable speculation.
Exponents of the system
always quote as an example
those cases where Trader A
carries the heavy risk of hold-
ing unsold stocks, and Trader
B an equal risk in selling stocks
not yet bought.
No one can question the
right, or wisdom, of these
legitimate traders to enter into
a futures-contract that will
cancel-out their respective risks.
They are seeking a stabilising
influence which the market
itself does not provide under
existing auction-selling condi-
tions ; but those transactions
do nothing towards remedying
the chaotic marketing condi-
tions responsible for the risk
which both were anxious to
insure against.
Rather they ( tend, by their
effect as a temporary expedi-
ency, to perpetuate those con-
ditions. Moreover, they have
added something to the final
cost, and nothing to the value
of the processed material.
The wool-market has always
been notoriously unstable,
despite the fact that wool-
supply is more constant than
most primary products —never
in excess of demand, and also
a product that can, if neces-
sary, be kept almost indefi-
nitely without loss ; in short,
a commodity which offers all
the elements which should
ensure reasonable market
stability.
Woolgrowers are justified in
concern at-the rapidly increas-
ing turnover on the futures-
market, and its growing
influence within the wool
trade. They know that if they
could accurately forecast the
course of the wool-market they
could make far more money,
with much less effort, by
trading in futures rather than
by growing wool.
They know, with equal cer-
tainty, that speculators can
operate on the futures-market
without necessarily ever hand-
ling a bale of wool. They
read reports of the importance
which is attached to the sale
of some few thousand bales
of wool in some particular
centre, and the influence which
the result will have on other
subsequent sales elsewhere;
yet during that brief space of
time the equivalent of a much
greater quantity of raw wool
has often been turned-over on
the futures-market.
The latter transactions are
by no means confined to
genuine risk-insurance, for the
contracts bought in the morn-
ing are frequently traded again
within a few hours if they yield
a margin of profit. Further-
more, the price-fluctuations
that occur in that brief period
are certainly not due to any
primary market influence. It
is like the age-old question:
Which came first —the chicken
or the egg?
F. Eric Hitchins.
Broad Beans
‘'Sundowner”: Now is a
good time to sow broad beans
for harvesting in the spring and
early summer.
Contrary to popular belief,
previous soaking of the seed
isn’t necessary In fact, as well
as increasing the danger of
disintegration of the seed if
a wet spell follows planting,
soaking increases the risk of
organisms destroying the seed
in the ground.
Never sow beans in the same
bed as last year’s crop. Pre-
pare a bed for them by liming
at 4oz. per square-yard broad-
cast. A complete fertiliser at
loz. per sq. yd. of row will
give the seed a good start.
Seed should be placed down the
centre of the row, not touching
the fertiliser..
To guard against strong
winds when the beans grow
taller, provide support by
running string on the sides of
the rows, tying to stakes at the
ends. \
Strawberries
“B.B.”: Strawberries as a
crop require considerable labor
for weeding, etc., so they are
best handled by a family groupT
They can be a paying proposi-
tion.
They need a topsoil contain-
ing plenty of humus and well
drained. Land with a good
clay subsoil about Ift. from the
surface is ideal. If supple-
-mentary irrigation is available
strawberries can be success-
fully grown on lighter soils with
a iower water-holding capacity.
Undulating or hillside sites
are best; they-aid drainage and
prevent root-rots and loss of
vigor in the plants. An eastern
or northern aspect is preferable,
allowing the fruit to ripen
earlier.
In preparing virgin ground
plough to a depth of Bin. in the
spring before planting, and
work heavy dressings of farm-
yard manure into the soil. At
this stage further cultivation
will help' to kill weeds. Just
before planting apply a dressing
of blood-and-bone at half-a-
ton an acre.
Late autumn is the best plant-
ing-time. Plants should be
spaced 2ft. to 2ft. 6in. between
rows, with 12in. to 15in
between plants. For 2ft.-12in,
planting 21,780 planks per acre
will be required ; the bigger
spacing will be only 13,940
plants.
In the winter or early spring
following planting, the ground
should be lightly hoed to
destroy weeds and loosen the
soil. A dressing of 2cwt.-3cwt.
per acre of complete fertiliser
before hoeing will ensure
robust plants and offset the
effects of any virus infection.
Where it’s available, sea-
weed is good for mulching; it
or similar material should be
worked under the leaves during
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(26/6/’5B)
In Queensland good rains are indicated on the coast
from, Maryborough southwards during July, with light to
moderate rains on the Darling Downs and Maranoa. Rainfall
poor in the rest of the State. Apart from moderate rains in
southern Queensland during September, rainfall is likely to
be below normal during the spring, with good general rains
in the whole of the State during December.
General rains are indicated in N.S.W. during July,
varying from moderate to good, with the heaviest falls
in the southern divisions and on part of the Central Coast.
Rainfall moderate on the North Coast and in the north-
west and upper-Darling areas. Gales and rough weather
probable on the South Coast during the first half of July.
Rainfall likely to be patchy during the spring, although
quite a good season should be experienced in the southern
and part of the central divisions.
There should be general rains in Victoria during July,
with the likelihood of severe flooding in the Wimmera and
the northern division, Latrobe Valley and upper-Yarra areas.
Good rains should continue in the southern half of Vic-
toria and in the western division for the balance of the year.
Good should occur in a large part of South Aus-
tralia during July, but rainfall probably poor in the interior.
Good follow-on rains should continue in the agricultural
areas until October, though likely to be poor in the interior
and varying from light to moderate in the Murray Valley.
The north-west and Gascoyne divisions of Western Aus-
tralia should receive rains above average in July, but the
south-west area is likely to have only moderate rains, with
poor raiitfall elsewhere. Rainfall below normal during
August with good rains in the south-west agricultural areas
and eastern goldfields area during September.
LENNOX WALKER.


m
m
m
H
m
r
7m
1
Kv
XwasvXw :$’
■-■ ■:
-.: ■’ v J
m
|zp;;
.""V
3
.-.- : :■:
Be our guest
for a Holden test.
• •
Test the exciting difference in the new Holden for Discover
all Holden’s wonderful handling qualities qualities that more
than match Holden’s striking new styling. And as you drive Holden,
test all the features that maintain Holden as Australia’s best car buy.
Test Holden Performance as you experience the wonderful new “feel” to
the famous 6 cylinder 70 gross brake horsepower engine now with
7 to I compression ratio.
Test the Holden Ride as you and your family relax in the true six passenger
comfort of the fresh new Holden interior.
PROVE Holden Value right through from new styling to new engineering
advances, all combining with Holden’s high resale value to make Holden
even greater value than ever before.
HOLDEIT
Australia's Own Car
PRICES FROM <9lO PLUS TAX
Australia's Own Station Sedan
PRICES FROM £995 PLUS TAX
GMAC hire purchase available.
“Air Chief ” is the GMH car radio.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
SOLD AND. SERVICED BY HOLDEN DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
SI 52
the growing-season to keep the
berries clean and reduce loss
of moisture.
Berries should be picked
regularly eveiy day or so
when they are ready. They
will keep better if picked in
the cooler parts of the day and
put in a cool place as soon as
possible after being taken from
the bush.
Strawberries like new r land ;
they seldom succeed if grown
in the same soil without spell-
ing it for some years: three
years is usually long enough in
the same ground. Hence, a
succession of beds will be
required if' a regular supply
of fruit is to be maintained.
To avoid damaging the
plants, apply side-dressings of
liquid-manure front time to
time.
Ettersburg 89 is one of the
most popular and most success--
ful varieties for a wide range
of conditions ; Richmond Red,
Melba, Royal Sovereign,
Auchincruive Climax and
Silvan Beauty can also be
recommended.
Hoad Transport
“Lemnos”: Railways
Departments have justification
for opposing the transport by
road of certain primary pro-
ducts on the ground that as
long as the locomotive must be
used to carry certain things it
should be supported by pro-
ducers of other things. For
instance, as a Railways Depart-
ment is expected to carry the
Commonwealth's wheat it has
a right to insist on getting the
business for most of the lambs.
However, a broader policy
on some articles could pay
dividends in the long-run. One
example is the cartage of
fertiliser. The fact that super,
can be used as backloading
from capital cities could result
in a general reduction of
cartage-costs to farmers, who
could use the savings to buy
more manure, with consequent
added production and many
side-advantages to the Govern-
ment.
Further, super, can be landed
straight from the works to the
paddock, with savings in
handling-costs and labor. This
is a great advantage where time
is a factor in the autumn,
because, whereas delayed
delivery might result in
paddocks becoming too boggy
for topdressing machinery, the
works-to-paddock service en-
sures prompt application.
One disturbing factor is that,
w'hile transport-owners can
obtain permits from time to
time, the indefiniteness of
getting such permission makes
it impossible for them to plan
deliveries on a permanent basis.
Farm Hints
“G.T.D.”: Early - maturing
pullets are, as a rule, the highest
producers and normally lay
late into the autumn as well
as being late moulters. Pullets
laying later than eight months
should be culled from the flock
and disposed of as early as
practicable.
“Jem”: Proper care of a
horse’s feet plays a big part in
avoiding hoof-injuries. The feet
of. stabled horses should be
trimmed at least once a month,
removing all excess growth of
the hoof-wall. Horses running
in a paddock should have their
feet attended to every two
months. Treat hoof-injuries as
soon as possible. Remove the
cause, and don't hesitate to
remove the horn if necessary.
“CJ.J.”: Even those farmers
who carry sheep as a sideline
only will find it profitable to
observe the rudiments of sheep-
husbandry. Classing ewes is
the surest method of flock-
improvement, for it means
every ewe kept earns as much
as she possibly can. Young
rams are best, and frequent
replacements are advisable.
“G. 8.”: Sweep-shares used
on cultivators will give a better
kill of weeds than the standard
shares. They are particularly
effective on lighter soils
because of their wider cutting-
edge. The number of cultiva-
tions is reduced, but a good
seed-bed is still obtained.


Women's Letters
SYDNEy
This is Children’s Book Week, and
there is an impressive exhibition of books
for children at the Public Library. The
award for the book of the year went to
Tasmanian authoress Nan Chauncy for
her Tiger in the Bush. Joan Phipson s
It Happened One Summer, and Pacific
Peoples, by Lindsay Gardener, were
highly commended. The award for the
best picture-book for children went to
Axel Poignant for his outstanding Picca-
ninny Walkabout. Sydney artist Mar-
garet Horder achieved double distinction
as the illustrator of both Tiger in the
Bush and It Happened One Summer.
Tiger in the Bush proved popular right
from the time it was published some 10
months ago. A proof that it is popular
all over the world is that its first large
printing is sold out. It is unfortunate,
however, that the need for a reprint
should have to coincide with the news of
the award, since adequate copies will not
be available for a few weeks after
Children’s Book Week. When the Queen
Mother returned home after her trip to
Australia earlier this year Tiger in the
Bush was one of several Australian books
which she took back to Prince Charles
and Princess Anne.
V V V
The exhibition of the Hiroshima
Panels at the National Gallery has
excited tremendous interest, with up to
15,000 people visiting the Gallery during
the weekend. The panels, depicting the
horrors of atom-bomb destruction, were
painted by Japanese artist Iri Maruki and
his wife Toshiko Akamatsu. Though the
panels are not acclaimed as great works
of art by the expert critics, the story
they tell is forceful and saddening. How
impressive they are and how they linger
in the memory may be imagined by
the reaction of a four-year-old girl who
lighted on some reproductions in a
weekly paper. For weeks she pestered
her mother with questions: “Why are
they all running away?” (“Because their
house has burned down.”) “ Why
haven’t they any clothes on?” (“They've
all been burned in the fire.”) “Why
have they got their babies with them?”
(“To save them.”); and, a week later:
“When our house burns down, will we
take our baby with us?”
v v &
Celebrations for national days were
the social highlights of the week. The
American Fourth of July Ball was held
at the Trocadero on July 3 (that must
be the Irish in them), and as usual the
decorations, the singing of “The Star
Spangled Banner” in the light of 800
sparklers, the popcorn and the special
American menu (including Virginia
baked-ham) made it one of the social
occasions of the year. A speciality this
year was the representation of Alaska,
the 49th State just admitted to the U.S.A.
Julienne Walker was dressed in a white
fur Eskimo outfit with fur cap and boots
to symbolise Miss Alaska. The host and
hostess, American Consul-General Frank
A. Waring and Mrs. Waring, welcomed
the official party, which included the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress, Aider-
man and Mrs. H. F. Jensen, and Sir
Percy and Lady Spender.
Mrs. M. R. Buring, who is the wife
of Colonel Buring, of Eastern Command,
Victoria Barracks, will present the debu-
tantes to Minister for the Army J. O.
Cramer and Mrs. Cramer at the Annual
Army Ball at the Trocadero on July 9.
Host and hostess for the ball will be
the G.O.C. Eastern Command, Lieut.-
General R. G. Pollard, and Mrs. Pollard.
Photo by Norton Trevaire.
Youthful musicians are in the news at
present. Pianist Daniel Barenboim, who
is 15 years old, arrived in Sydney to give
16 recitals for the A.B.C. Daniel is
accompanied by his parents, Professor
and Mrs. Enrique Barenboim, who
always travel with" him so that he does
not lose contact with his family. Daniel
gave his first concert at the age of seven
and is among the highest-paid pianists
in the world.
Another young musician in the news
is Geoffrey Michaels, the 14-year-old West
Australian violinist who won the instru-
mental section of the A.B.C.’s Concerto
and Vocal Competition during the week.
A student of Perth Modern School,
Geoffrey is the youngest winner of the
competitions since their inauguration just
after World War 11.
'Another West Australian won the vocal
section of the competition —Lynette
Howieson, lyric soprano, of Claremont;
she is 26 years of age. The adjudicator,
Professor George Loughlin, of Melbourne
University, predicted a promising career
for Miss Howieson and said that she
had an excellent sense of drama. Other
finalists in the competition were Beryl
Potter, 21-year-old pianist from Lind-
field (Sydney), Janice Hearne, 20-year-
old mezzo-soprano from Brisbane,
Michael Griggs (21), pianist, from South
Australia, Robert Bickerstaff (25), Vic-
torian baritone, and Roger Holmes (21),
pianist, from Victoria. To take part
in the finals Rosalind Keene, a soprano
of Sydney, came from Brisbane, where
she is appearing with the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust’s production of "Lohen-
grin.”
☆ ☆ ☆
A note for lovers of Gilbert and Sulli-
van : "The Pirates of Penzance” will be
given by the G. and S. Society at the
Conservatorium next Friday and Satur-
day at 8 p.m. The producer is Evelyn
Gardiner, and musical-director is Frank
Johnstone. Proceeds are for the Royal
Alexandra Hospital for Children.
☆ ☆ ☆
It begins to seem more than possible,
even probable, that Princess Margaret
will visit Australia next year. The
Queensland centenary of independent
government would be the occasion, and
various guarded pronouncements have
been made. The Press Secretary at
Buckingham Palace said during the
week: "1 know of no reason why Princess
Margaret should not visit Queensland
next year”—a remark worthy of the
Delphic Oracle.
☆☆ _ ☆
Talking-points of the week included
the rise in the price of butter by 2d. a
pound. "My opinion is that the con-
sumers will not mind the increase because
they know it is going to the producers,”
said a producers’ representative. But
talk around the suburbs seems to be that
the consumers do mind the increase,
especially as they hear that Australian
butter sells for half the price in England.
* ☆ a
It is a little early for Santa Claus, but
there is a good deal of speculation on
"What will the Budget bring us?” and
also "What will'the various parties, going
to an election, promise us, the voters?”
Rumors seem to indicate that cam-
paigners are veering away from the “I
will give you a coach-and-six” line to the
“I can't give you anything but love,
baby,” idea, believing that this- sounds
more sincere, inspires more confidence
and, incidentally, costs much less.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Royal Aero Club of N.S.W. will
hold its first ball since the war at the
Wentworth Hotel on July 19. Among
the guests invited to attend are the Minis-
ter for Civil Aviation, Senator Shane
Paltridge, and Mrs. Paltridge, and Major-
General Denzil Macarthur Onslow and


Mrs. Macarthur Onslow. Chairman of
the ball-committee, is Mrs. Peter Lloyd
(whose husband is president of the club),
and members include well-known aero-
batic flyer Dr. Pat Rutherford, Mrs. Ken
Hammond, Mrs. K. Arantz and Mrs. N.
Barnfield.
# # #
Travellers who arrived in Sydney
during the week included Mrs. Maurice
Silverstein, who was formerly Sydney
actress Betty Bryant. Looking prettier
than ever after 17 years of married life,
Mrs. Silverstein was accompanied by her
tall son Michael and eight-year-old
daughter Pamela. While here she will
attend the Red Cross premiere of “Dun-
kirk” at the St. James Theatre on
July 18.
MELBOURNE
At the St. Kilda Palais a magnificent
backdrop of an illuminated Capitol and
the Abraham Lincoln Memorial in Wash-
ington set the theme of the Yankee Doodle
“do” with which the American com-
munity celebrated Independence Day.
Beside this backdrop was a giant figure
of Uncle Sam, and in the official enclo-
sure was another. Miniature Uncle Sam
top-hats were set on every table, where
the Stars and Stripes (with an extra
silver star added for Alaska) held pride
of place. The bail was organised by
the American Women’s Auxiliary to the
Royal Children’s Hospital.
Auxiliary president Mrs. Mark
Clements (her lovely gown was of muted
sea-blue satin) and her husband, and ball-
chairman Mrs. Heaihcote Wright and
Mr. Wright, received the Governor and
Lady Brooks (the skirt of Lady Brooks’s
oyster-satin gown fell in full lines from
wide box-pleats at the waist).
With the Premier was Mrs. Bolte, who
chose a gowm of mist-blue satin. A large
bow on one shoulder had long ends
which formed a stole lined in a paler
shade of blue. With the Lord Mayor
was Mrs. F. W. Thomas, whose charming
gowm of cream brocade was patterned
in green and gold flowers. Lady Mur-
doch (president of the Royal Children’s
Hospital) and president of the Royal
Children’s Hospital Auxiliaries Mrs. A.
J. Mclntosh, and Mr. Mclntosh, were
also in the official party.
xy ' xy j £
The flags of the U.S. and Australia,
centred by a large gold eagle, were set
on the official table when the Australian-
American Association held a luncheon in
the Royale Ballroom honoring Independ-
ence Day. On the many small tables
jvere the two flags and flowers in red,
White and blue tonings.
Guest-speaker Sir Douglas Copland and
Lady Copland w'ere received by associa-
tion president Sir John Latham and Lady
Latham, and vice-president Mr. Wesley
Ince and Mrs. Ince. At the official table
Were U.S. Consul-General Graham Hall
and Mrs. Hall (who wore with her fur-
trimmed black suit a hibiscus-pink
toque) and the president of the Women’s
Group of the association, Mrs. R. G.
Casey.
Noted at the luncheon several members
of the New York City Ballet; two Ful-
bright scholars, Dr. Laura Hooper and
Dr. R. B. Montgomery, the latter with
his wife ; Americans Mr. and Mrs. W. W.
Killough (she wearing in the lapel of her
jacket a gold eagle and a brooch-flag of
ruby stripes and diamond-and-sapphire
stars; Mrs. John Mack ; Lady Selleck
and her daughter Mrs. Geoffrey Tolson ;
Sir Robert and Lady Knox; Mr. and
Mrs. W. K. Burnside ; Air-Marshal Sir
Frederick Scherger and Lady Scherger;
U.S. Consul W. J. Bushwaller and Mrs.
Bushwaller ; Col. John Hussey (U.S. Air-
Attach£) and Mrs. Hussey; Dr. and
Mrs. William Braun; Dr. and Mrs.
Darrell I. Drucker.
With four children —two boys and two
girls— to look after, plus a busy social
life as the wife of the U.S. Consul in
this city, Mrs. W. J. Bushwaller never
finds time dragging for her. A native
of lowa, Mrs Bushwaller is a member
of the American Women’s Auxiliary to
the Royal Children's Hospital. She was
chairman of the ticket-selling committee
for the highly successful “Yankee Doodle
Do,” the annual July 4 ball which raised
funds for the hospital.
At the late-afternoon party given at
Giro's by Canada’s acting Commercial
Secretary, T. Stewart Hay, his wife
appropriately pinned a diamond maple-
leaf brooch in the bodice of her del-
phinium-blue lace Empire-line frock, the
brief waistline of which was defined by
an attractive sash and large bow r . Among
the guests were the Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. F. W.
Thomas), she smart in a black velvet
sheath-frock and American-beauty cur-
vette. With the Consul-General for
Italy was, the Marchesa Serafini, who
with her black Persian-lamb coat wore
a black pillbox-hat trimmed with mink
to match her coat-collar. Mrs. Graham
Hall, wife of the U.S. Consul-General,
chose a cocktail-frock of jade-green
faille and a hip-length mink jacket.
Others at the party were Dr. Fred Fenton
and his Canadian wife, Lieut.-General
E. K. Smart and Mrs. Smart, Mr. and
Mrs. Bernard Brown, Mr. and Mrs.
Donald Webster, Lieut. John Groves and
his fiancee Flavia Spalazzi, and Lieut.
Christopher Chamberlen, who was
accompanied by a visitor from Paris,
Monique de Saint Salvay.
# # #
St. John’s Church, Toorak, was
decorated with white flowers when
Jocelyn Claire, only daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Cedric Paynter, of Toorak, was
married to Michael Henry Searby.
Bishop J. D. McKie, assisted by the Vicar
of St. John's, the Rev. T. Gee, performed
the ceremony. Tiny pearls and crystals
trimmed the long sleeves, and pearls out-
lined the boat-shaped neckline of the
bride’s long-waisted bodice of creamy-
beige French satin. The softly pleated
skirt fell into a graceful train. Lace
from her mother’s wedding-veil edged the
tulle .veil, which was caught with a crown
of orange-blossom. Her bouquet was of
white orchids, lily-of-the-va!ley and trails
of green and white miniature ivy. Mrs.
James Doake and Mrs. Noel Harman
attended the bride in full-skirted frocks
of rose-pink velvet. In their hair were
wreaths of white hyacinths, and they
carried bouquets of white carnations and
hyacinths. The bridegroom is the- elder
son of Mr. and Mrs. Henry Searby, of
South Yarra. Richard Searby was best
man and John Read groomsman. Recep-
tion was at the home of the bride’s
parents.
☆ ☆ ☆
Racing-colors of well-known owners
highlighted the menus when the Blood
Horse Breeder’s Association held its
annual dinner-d2nce at Giro’s. The eve
of the Grand National meeting at Flem-
ington is always chosen for the function,
as so many country folk are in town. The
president of the association, Dr. Graham
Godfrey, was with Mrs. Godfrey, who
chose an Empire-line gown of mushroom
silk-organza. Among those who attended
were Mr. and Mrs. Robert Hunter (Sey-
mour) ; Mr. and Mrs. Geoffery Watson,
of Perricoota station, Moama
(N.S.W.); Mr. and Mrs. D. Leahy, of
Adelaide; Mr. and Mrs. Rupert Steele
(Dandenong); Mr. and Mrs. lan Miller
(her full-length gown being of black
fine-wool jersey); Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Wilson ; Mr. and Mrs. A. A. Lord (her
choice a chiffon gown in steel-grey ton- •
ings); Mr. A. G. Silk and his son-in-law
and daughter, Mr. and Mrs. Peter Kier-
nan; Mr. and Mrs. Neil Rogers (the
latter’s black faille coat had a white mink
collar); Mr. and Mrs. Frank Watts (her
frock of hyacinth-blue lace worn under
a mink coat); Mrs. Fred Fair and Mr.
and Mrs. Geoffrey Armstrong, of
Nagambie.


from the tomato-vines rose up
round them, enclosing them
in an intimate, pulsating
silence.
A man’s voice shouted —
Reismann’s “Hey, driver ;
the truck's loaded.”
“I’ll have to go,” Billy said.
Mrs. Reismann spoke as
though they had not been
interrupted, with honeyed
agreeableness:
“Anyhow, now that you're
home, we might see you again
sometimes.”
“Oh, yes, yes. I’d like to
very much.”
Billy turned to Joan, wait-
ing for her to look into his
face. Then resolution worked
strongly in him.
“Look,” he said earnestly,
“look, Joan, would you care
to come with me to the
Graziers’ Ball next week?”
Joan’s eyes opened wide, and
her lips a little, too.
Che turned abruptly to her
mother and cried, “Oh,
Mum.”
“There, there now, Joanie,
what's the matter with you?
I think it’s very nice of Billy
to ask you.”
“But, Mother!” Joan’s voice
was full of trouble.
“Now, now, Joanie,” her
mother said, as if nothing
unusual was happening; “you
mustn’t get upset.”
“If she’s arranged to go with
someone else . . Billy ven-
tured.
“No, no ; it's not that,” Mrs.
Reismann said.
She faltered, at last losing a
little of her aplomb. Joan, as
if sensing that her mother was
about to fail her, and still keep-
ing her face averted from Billy,
said miserably, “I’m not
allowed to go to dances. It’s
against our church.”
Billy was astounded.
“Don’t allow you to go to
dances!” he exclaimed,
incredulous.
“Some of them have
unusual ideas,” Mrs. Reismann
muttered.
“But forbidding dancing!
It’s like the Puritans! Like
back in Cromwell’s time!”
“That’s the way it is,” Mrs.
Reismann said.
“You mean” —Billy was
still struggling with his aston-
ishment “that Joan is
eighteen, and has never been
to a dance?”
“That’s right.”
“It’s not right,” Billy
declared, “she’d look massive
in a dance frock!”
“Eh? Oh, yes, wouldn’t
she!” Mrs. Reismann said
eagerly. “In a soft w ; hite
frock or pale-blue with a long,
wide skirt. She’s got such
beautiful arms and shoulders
too . . .”
Billy considered as much of
Joan’s arms as he could see
with a hunger almost canni-
balistic as her mother’s cata-
logue proceeded.
“Joanie,” Mrs. Reismann
went on, excitement mounting
in her voice, “why don’t you
say you’ll think about it, and
let Billy know later?”
“Oh, Mother! But what
about Dad?”
“Hey, driver, the hay’s
loaded,” shouted the stern
voice.
Joan winced.
“We could manage him
somehow',” Mrs. Reismann
said.
“Well, you’ll let me know
then, won’t you, Joan?” Billy
entreated.
Joan gave a last, frightened,
beseeching glance at « her
mother, then turned w'ide-eyed
and tight-lipped to Bifly and
nodded her head several times.
“Coming!” Billy shouted, as
the man’s voice called again.
He got the truck out with
none of the roaring he’d made
coming in, and with a modest
amount of display.
VXfHEN Joan stopped looking
after him she turned to
her mother.
“Now, what are we going to
do?” she asked.
“Think about it,” her
mother said ; “think about it.
That’s all we can do.”
She went back to picking
tomatoes; Joan followed her
and began picking tomatoes,
too.
“He reminds me of his
father when he was that age
and just home from college,”
Mrs. Reismann said presently.
“Looks like him, talks like
him, and I’ll bet he acts like
him, too, when he hasn’t got
any grow-n-ups watching him.”
“Did you know him that
well?” Joan asked doubtfully.
The social worlds of her
parents and Billy’s were miles
apart.
“Oh, I knew him well
enough.” She eyed her daugh-
ter archly, as if calculating
how much it would be wise to
tell her. “You wouldn’t believe
how well I knew him.”
Joan gave her a doubtful
glance and went on picking
tomatoes. Mrs. Reismann’s
eyes flashed as if she con-
sidered herself challenged.
“He was mad about me,” she
said boldly; then giggled at
her audacity in revealing it.
Joan stopped work in
surprise.
“But he' married someone
else,” she said. “Didn’t you
like him?”
“Oh, I liked him all right.
But his parents and my parents
tried to keep us apart. There
was the religious difference,
you see. And he was half-
going with another girl that
his parents wanted him to
marry. But now and then we
got together, and I only had
to let him touch me to make
him forget all about that other
girl.
Mrs. Reismann giggled
again.
“The things he used to say
to me. It was really shocking.
But I never did w'hat he
wanted. I w j as a good girl,
see! There wasn’t much
chance anyway, the few times
we met. And I remembered
all the things the pastor warned,
us against in his sermons.
“But he took this other girl
to the- dances I couldn’t go
to. After a while they were
married pretty suddenly— very
suddenly, you understand?”
Now she was staring past
her daughter wistfully.
“If I’d been allowed to go
to dances it might have been
me he married.”
“But, Mother! What are
you saying?”
Mrs. Reismann turned
abruptly on her daughter.
“I was only telling you what
happened. I didn’t do anything
wrong, and in time I married
a God-fearing man from our
congregation. And I’ve been
washing and ironing, and
growing vegetables, and getting
old-and ugly ever since.”
She brushed indignantly at
her tears.
“Oh, Mum, don’t!” Joan
pleaded.
"VCrs. Reismann made an
iVX g o t control of her-
self, picked up the basket of
tomatoes, and marched towards
the house.
“Come on, Joan,” she com-
manded ; “we’ve got a lot to
do.”
Joan ran to catch her.
“What do you mean?”
“Make a ball-dress,” her
mother .announced. “Lucky
you learnt how to do all those
kinds of things at the Tech”
“But Dad . . . ! He’ll see
what we’re doing.”
“He wouldn’t know a ball-
dress from a pair of window-
curtains.”
“I’ll be scared-stiff all the
time I’m making it. And how
will I get on the night of the
ball?”
“You can go and stay in
town at your Aunt Emma’s for
the night, and Billy can pick
you up from there. I’ll fix
her so that she’ll help you.
You can finish your frock
there, too.”
“I’ll still be scared,” Joan
said shakily.
“ Why ? ” her mother
demanded. “It’s nothing. All
girls your age go to dances
and think nothing about it.
You know how to dance, don't
you? From the High School?”
Joan nodded, speechless with
the terrors that were crowding
in on her.
“But, Mother, I’m fright-
ened. I don’t know why you
suddenly want me to go.”
Mrs. Reismann frowned.
“If you w'ant to know, it’s
because I’m sick of washing
and ironing, and cleaning-up
and gardening. You’ve seen
Billy’s mother, haven’t you?
Well, why do you think she
looks twelve years younger
than me? I’ll tell you. It’s
because she only does as much
work as she feels like. And
if she sees a wrinkle coming
in her face she catches the first
aeroplane to Sydney and stays
there at an expensive hotel
until they get rid of it.”
They had deposited the
tomatoes in the kitchen and
walked through the house into
the little-used lounge-room.
“Come on, Joan,” Mrs.
Reismann encouraged her.
“We’ll pick out a design for
a frock, and you can draft a
pattern. We got to decide on
the material and everything.”
Soon they were busily
occupied, enough evidence lying
around them for the most
obtuse of fathers td guess what
was going on. Joan, at her
familiar dressmaking, gained
confidence ; she became inter-
ested and eager.
Her mother watched her
touchingly young face for a
moment, then, feeling her
defencelessness, went over to
her and put her arms around
her.
“Oh, Joanie, Joanie,” she
said, near to tears again, “I
wouldn’t let you do this, only
I could see how wonderful
it would be for both of you.”


Between
Ourselves
—Have Yotj Ever Tried
This?
A "must” for all
housewives—if you want
to keep them up to the
mark—are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and "help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
and expenditure generally. That
committee consists of the
civilian heads of the services,
but service members of the
uniformed forces are excluded.
Thus the men who best know
the problems of the members
of the forces are consulted only
at second hand.
Pay is determined on the
advice of this committee, and
so are other matters of allow-
ances for families, living and
travel, but it is the Treasurer
who has the ultimate say, and
that without direct contact with
those who run the operative
machine of defence. He
in turn is governed by the
policy of the Government,
which is always timid of public
opinion and, in the face of
the continual failure either to
recruit sufficient men or to keep
them or get enough of the right
type of officer, is yet always
haunted by an axiom that the
services must not compete
With private business for per-
sonnel. This is a hard-and-fast
rule. Let the country be over-
run by enemies rather than let
it be broken.
Yet it is vitally necessary
that all services should be able
to compete ; for if they are to
keep the defences up to
strength they must be able to
offer inducements comparable
with those offered civilian em-
ployees to compensate for the
very marked disadvantages at
which both officers and men
find themselves when they don
uniform.
They certainly are offered
some advantages. A modicum
of clothing, pension, annual
leave, free medical attention
are held out as some of these.
They have been held out for
many years, but in the interval
civilian life has been catching-
up with them and passing them
in the provision of medical
facilities, leave and amenities.
And the soldier, whether com-
missioned or other ranks, con-
tinues to suffer disabilities
which in civilian employment
have largely ceased to exist.
Uncertainty of Life
A serviceman’s life is that
of a nomad. Even when he is
posted in a particular centre
he may be serving half-a-dozen
centres within a hundred miles.
A WO2 attached to a C.M.F.
Division country centre may
hve in, for example, Kempsey,
and be continually away from
home at Port Macquarie or
Wauchope. He may be trans-
ferred to the other end of Aus-
tralia any tick of the clock,
with his wife and six children,
on a promotion which means
6d.-a-day increase in pay, right
in the middle of a school term
and just as he is half-way
through buying a house for
himself. And a couple of years
afterwards he may find him-
self going through the same
process.
They are a bit more con-
siderate in the R.A.N. than in
the Army.
Officers are set down in a
community and at the end of
two years may be - almost
always are —torn up by the
roots and ordered to take root
somewhere else in the sure
knowledge that just as they are
beginning to merge into the
life of the place there will be
another uprooting. Any one of
them who, in process of rising
to the top—and very few get
there, since there are few niches
for them doesn’t have 20
homes, mostly sub-standard, is
a lucky man.
Apart from this the regular
officer or man may be sent
away with his family for over-
seas service at the time when
his children are growing-up. It
is worse for the man in the
same position who, because of
special conditions connected
with education or health, must
leave his family behind when
he goes abroad or to the Far
North.
No soldier, commissioned or
otherwise, under present con-
ditions, can plan his life as a
civilian does. The “other
ranks” are signed-on for long
years subject to tight discipline.
It should be emphasised
that where the civilian, no
matter what his profession, has
his union or his association to
fight for an award for him,
soldiers, even those with profes-
sional qualifications, have none.
They must look to the Minister
and to the Treasurer to dic-
tate their conditions, and those
conditions lean to the conveni-
ence of the service rather than
to the consideration of the em-
ployee or any tendency to align
service conditions with those
of civilian life.
Soldier v. Civilian
The serviceman works —or at
least about 80 per cent, of him
does —up to 50 hours a week
when and how it is thought
necessary for him to work. He
works where he is told, when
he is told, and how he is told,
according to Army Regula-
tions. If he fails to obey he
can be punished. If he goes on
strike he is subject to drastic
penalties, and there is no union
or association-secretary to see
fair play for him and to give
him strike-pay—which he is
not likely to be able to enjoy,
since he will be in clink.
There is no dirt-money,
danger-money, overtime, much
less double-overtime. There is
no limitation on the kind of
work he can be asked to do
within the regulations. The
Army, Navy and R.A.A.F. are
not well up in the distinctions
between a latrine-cleaner and
a wharfie or a clerk.
It is a case of “one in, all
in,” when necessity arises.
Generals have even been seen
wielding a pick in emergency,
and there is nobody to tap
them on the shoulder as there
would be in civilian life and
apprise them that they are tak-
ing the bread out of an honest
man’s mouth and that the Dirt
Shovellers’ Union is a closed
union.
No magistrate has ever had
an Army baker up before him
and, as he has doled-out a
heavy fine, uttered a severe
homily on the awfulness of the
crime of baking bread on a
Saturday afternoon. And there
has never yet been a yell from
Mr. Ernie O’Dea, Sydney’s
highly vocal secretary of the
Shop Assistants’ Union, be-
cause a Q.M.-store has hap-
pened to be open of a Friday
night in emergency.
What makes this position all
the more calculated to breed
discontent is the fact that
soldier and civilian in the
piping years of peace are com-
pelled to live together. Civilian
staffs teem at Service Head-
quarters like the inhabitants of
anthills in these days. They are
mingled with service personnel;
with dire results.
The soldiers who are
prisoners of the service under
long-term enlistment see their
civilian counterparts, whose life
is free of the imminence that
they may be exported to battle-
fields at a moment’s notice,
going off regularly of an after-
noon and for the weekend
under their own favored system
of hours. They hear and see
the inroads of union officials
jealously guarding ihe rights of
these intruders. They learn
about their advantages in retire-
ment-ages and pensions and
benefits generally.
They see them entirely at
an advantage, with longer
security, more pension-units,
stable home-life, restricted
fields of work, governed by
awards and public-service con-
ditions, and with the right to
join in the political and social
life of the community in a way
that is utterly impossible to
the soldier.
And they know, finally, that
their own pay and conditions
depend on the decisions of
civilians in which they have
not any real say by way of
direct negotiation or appeal to
the arbitration courts.
All they can hope for in the
way of improvement comes,
occasionally from the findings
of some tribunal like the Alli-
son Committee. But so far
nothing has transpired in any
inquiry, public or private,
which has tended to con-
sider the soldier, commis-
sioned or otherwise, as a person
with full citizen rights, entitled
to negotiate his conditions,
entitled to equal consideration
with the civilians of his depart-
ment.
The matter of adjustment to
a modern basis admittedly has
tremendous difficulties before
which those who know them
and sympathise with the ser-
viceman are apt to quail. Hence
the problem has drifted along
in a modified Wellingtonian
atmosphere.
The serviceman remains a
“body” in practice, if not in
theory, from the highest ranks
downwards. And at the current
rate of attrition in the Regular
Army he will soon be less than
that. He will be extinct as a
dodo, known in a few years,
if things go on as they are
going, only from the files of
old newspapers bearing the
pictures of the Tussaud trio
who adorn the expensive and
more and more futile recruit-
ing-posters and advertisements.


before? He said, “I bet the shep-
herds watched their flocks that
night.”
He was at the Imperial Conference
with Bruce in 1926 and with Scullin
in 1930 —the year of the Statute of
Westminster —and at the League in
Geneva the same year.
He amazingly became, at 73, a
Rotarian of tonnage and attended a
Rotary International as Governor-
nominee of “nearly half Australia” in
1937, having been a founding father of
the Canberra Rotary Club formed in
1927 when the village contained more
trees than men. He was president of
the group which founded the Canberra
University College, and the professor-
ship of law was named the Robert
Garran professorship after him. Also,
he was a member of the Interim
Council which laid the foundations of
the Australian National University and
of the foundation-groups of practically
every cultural movement in the capital.
Yet through it all he remained a
modest man, full of the zest of life, his
speech full of good things, his interest
circumscribed only by the limits of the
universe. His book reflects his per-
sonality, his nature and his experience.
It is unique in Australian reminiscent
writing. It is most readable for itself
and will appeal to thousands who have
little interest in the things that most
made-up his life, but who will fall
victims to its insidious charm. It will
also become standard on the shelves of
serious students; for in it are to be
found those sidelights on history and
explanations of purpose and motive
that appear nowhere else, and the
intimacies connected with the develop-
ment of great national policies and
events which nobody else was able to
detail.
M. H. E.
Camus Stories
The six short-stories in Camus’s
Exile and the Kingdom (Hamish
Hamilton) give a general impression
of brevity: but these are not really
short short-stories.
“The Adulterous Woman” comes to
about 5000 words, “The Artist at
Work” is around 10,000. The impres-
sion of brevity is a mark of the skill
of the writing.
But something of the strength of the
stories resides in the length. A charac-
ter —or, more commonly, an aspect of
character—has room to develop,
atmosphere has time to sink in.
“The Adulterous Woman” is a study
of a middle-aged woman unwillingly
going for a business-trip with her hus-
band into the desert—a rather surpris-
ing cold desert of stony plateaus—and
there undergoing a crisis of the spirit;
the adultery is spiritual, a sort of
mystic mating with the desert. A diffi-
cult thing to write; Camus, with sim-
plicity and economy, has written it.
“The Renegade” is a violent and
terrible story, poured out by the narra-
tor, a missionary turned renegade,
waiting to kill his successor. From the
jumble of his thoughts emerges a
picture of physical torment, humilia-
tion and treachery that strikes very
deep. It is, in fact, an allegory built
around man’s unpleasant readiness to
serve the forces that hurt him.
“The Silent Men” catches a mood in
a workshop, concentrating on the
wedge driven between ordinary people
by a strike’s aftermath. “The Guest”
has a touch of Conrad’s “The Secret
Sharer” with an ironic twist. “The
Artist at Work” has wonderful stuff
in it, but has a rather weak finish for
such a superb picture —as true of
Australian studio-life as of France,
within the story’s own boundaries of
satiric fable—of a successful artist’s
parasites and friends. “The Growing
Stone,” set in the Brazilian jungle,
shows a French engineer and a negro
cook shaking hands, so to speak, across
formidable barriers.
These stories have a rare, austere
simplicity. Compared with them many
short-stories which currently have a
high reputation seem pretentious and
overexcited.
Miller Muses
Since World War II Henry Miller,
author of “Tropic of Capricorn” and
other shockers, has retired to Big Sur,
a bare bit of coast near Monterey
(U.S.); and in Big Sur and the Oranges
of Hieronymus Bosch (Heinemann) he
talks at random for 353 pages (he has
been compared with Whitman and
Melville as a “formless genius”) as
anarchistic life-force thinkers are
expected by their fans (he gets fan-
mail from all over the world) to do.
The result includes a little nature-
study of his sparsely populated cliffs,
a little about the few people who live
and send their children to school there,
a little about pilgrims who come to
see him and don’t know what to say
or whether to buy his watercolor paint-
ings, a little about his current wives
and his children. One of the big
moments is when the wife who was the
mother of his children leaves him, and
for a while he tries to look-after the
children himself. Then he finds it is
too much for him and sends for the
wife, who takes them away—lovely
looking kids they are, in the photo-
graphs—whereon he retires to the
bathroom and cries and cries.
The other big moment is a whole
section where a crazy Frenchman
Miller knew in Paris, and who is on
his beam-ends, accepts an invitation to
visit him. This repulsive old boy tells
a story about himself and a French
child-prostitute that is well in the old
Miller tradition; and Miller’s efforts
to put-up with his visitor, and then to
get rid of him make a really good story
for those to whom the curious lives
of penniless artists, as they are lived
in ancient mansions split-up into rooms
on the edge of condemnation, are still
of enthralling interest.
The Bosch reference in the title is
to the old master’s tryptich, “The
Millenium,” reproduced here among
the 13 pages of plates, but what Bosch
meant by the painting, or what Miller
means by referring to it is not made
clear. An apology by the publishers
for deletions in this, the English edition,
completes the usual Miller effect.
Three Plays
Here are three plays differing widely
in theme and treatment but all having
recently enjoyed considerable success
—two in London, the other in Paris.
The Egg, . by Felicien Marceau
(Faber), is a racy attempt at “pure”
theatre. It has 33 characters, and
scenery “composed of two revolving
‘eggs’ and two downstage slides.” The
hero, a young Outsider, tells the audi-
ence the story of his baffled attempts
to “get inside the egg” (i.e., life).
Sets roll on and off the stage as you
watch, and scene after scene is enacted
within the eggs and between the slides,
the hero slipping back to take his part
in them, but sometimes pausing in mid-
scene to comment to the audience on
the behavior of the other characters.
He makes the discovery that life as
most people lead it is a bit of a fraud,
and that if he lies and cheats and is
cruel like everyone else he, too, can be
an Insider. Satire is obviously
Marceau’s intention, but his total effect,
at any rate in translation, is closer to
the veneered cynicism of “La Ronde.”
Flowering Cherry, by Robert Bolt
(Heinemann), is a sort of English
“Death of a Salesman.” Bob Cherry
is a pathological liar and deceiver. His
chief victim is himself; but in preserv-
ing his favorite dream —of one day
escaping from his job in an insurance-
office and taking-up an orchard in
Somerset —he disfigures the lives of his
wife and children.
And when his wife, desperate for
some sort of emotional certainty,
manages to bring his dream to the
point of realisation he recoils from
it with pathetic lies and excuses, and
tries to scuttle back to his insurance-
burrow. The climax, when Cherry’s
hollowness and total failure are
revealed, is powerful and beautiful-
Unlike Marceau, Robert Bolt i s
primarily concerned with human rather
than theatrical values—with the result
that he makes much better drama.
Roar Like a Dove, by Lesley Storm


THE PEA PICKERS
by Eve Langley
Fiist published in 1942, this story of two girls who set out to earn their living by odd
jobs with the small farmers of Gippsland and the Australian Alps is available again.
It contributes something fresh to Australian literature. It is rare. I think it will be
cherished. The Bulletin. ‘‘The peculiar charm of this bo'ok is the Puckish laugh and
the rich, earthy figures in which it exults.” — New York. Times Book Review.
22/6 (post 9d.)
At all booksellers and ...
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD..
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
THE SECOND VICTORY
Morris West
The author of “Children of the Sun” has written a fast-moving
but deeply-flowing story of post-war Austria.
At all booksellers - - - 18/9
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON t : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
(Heinemann), is concerned with neither
theatrical nor with human values but,
quite openly, the box-office.
A conventional drawing - room
comedy, it deals with a Scottish squire’s
efforts to persuade his reluctant Ameri-
can wife to join him in an effort to
produce a male heir —the poor chap
only has daughters. So sex has its head
reared almost continuously; but it isn't
an ugly head—Miss Storm has seen
to that.
In fact, she has seen to everything;
the dialogue (crisp and smart); the
construction (expert); the sex-war jokes
(“good taste”); and the satire on
British and American attitudes (so
gentle you can hardly feel it).
Reviewed Briefly
Long Under Darkness: L. H. Evers
(Currawong). A melodrama on the
stock situation of the returned soldier
: —and an artist at that —coming home
with a neurosis ; here complicated by
the fact that he has once had a love-
affair with his brother-in-law's girl-
friend. The brother-in-law, a police-
man, eventually shoots him on the
rocks at North Head, outside Sydney
Harbor. The writing is raw. and Aus-
tralian suburban life very raw indeed.
* * * *
Soviet Russia in China: Chiang
Kai-shek (Harrap). Although this is
sub-titled “A Summing-up at Seventy”
and the Generalissimo necessarily
recounts his own actions and beliefs
—with the story of his kidnapping
during the Sian incident —the book is
the bare bones of history without any
of the life that makes histories read-
able. It is all facts, analysis, generali-
ties, in the style of an official report.
Nevertheless, it is, of course, an import-
ant document. While not everyone will
agree with the conclusion that “If the
Western nations need to pick a battle-
field it should be neither in Europe nor
in the Middle East, where they will
necessarily have to engage Soviet
Russia directly in hostilities. The best
battlefield is in the Far East,” which
seems to mean simply that the West
should reconquer China for Chiang
Kai-Shek, the exposure of Commun-
ism on the march throughout the East
is as illuminating as it is ominous.
* * * *
The Planet Jupiter: B. M. Peek
(Faber). Five times as far away from
the sun as the earth is, two-and-a-half
times as big as all the other planets put
together, taking 12 years to revolve
once round the sun, the planet Jupiter
is wrapped in almost impenetrable
mystery, which B. M. Peek, for 15 years
director of the Jupiter section of the
British Astronomical Association,
here does his best to peek through. The
planet’s most exciting feature is the
great Red Spot. Twenty-five thousand
miles long and 8000 miles wide, the
spot was apparently overcome by “dis-
turbances” in 1939. It may, of course,
have been the British Empire; or a
Soviet colony; but Peek rather inclines
to the view that it was an island of solid
helium floating in something equally
undesirable. A book for the amateur
astronomer. -•
* * * *
The Bachelors of Broken Hill:
Arthur Upheld (Heinemann). Napoleon
Bonaparte investigates the poisoning
of a Broken Hill draper in his drapery,
a metallurgist in his pub, and the
attempted poisoning of a bookmaker;
also the knifing of a woman-steno-
grapher of the Broken Hill police-
force. The mystery is well sustained,
well investigated and well, if melo-
dramatically, solved; but it is the
answer to those who want an Upheld
detective-novel m which the quality
(in some cases, the magnificence) of
the background-writing does not eclipse
the mystery i.e.: what would be a
first-rate mystery for another author
1S a » dls ' a PP ointin 8 * n Upfield.
* *
. new paperback series is being
distributed by Heinemann for Lands-
borough Publications: glossy-covered,
Wlt “ uf r^ e t^ e which * s reasona bly
readable in spite of some show-through
on the cheap paper. The English price
is -s. 6d, and 3s. 6d., and the Australian
retail price is stated at 3s. 6d. (bigger
ones 55.). Titles already published
including those in a “True Crime ’
series, are a mixture of classics
and modern novels of some standing,
Some of them are: Crime in America,
by Senator Estes Kefauver; Birdman
of Alcatraz, by Thomas E. Gaddis;
Plague Within, by John Lodwick; The
Brothers Karamazov, by Dostoievsky;
The Small General, by Robert Standish;
The Dangerous Years, by Richard
Church; A Woman Called Fancy, by
Frank Yerby; Thursday’s Child, by
Eartha Kitt; Number Nine, by A. P.
3
, F< l ws on >
Mikhail Sholokhov; Lawrence of
by Aldington; The
Priestley; Elephant
Robert Standish, The Foxes
S 3 ™?’ Jerby; Festival
of Farbnd § e ’ by J. B. Priestley,
* * * *
The Purple Jacaranda: Nancy
Graham (Cassell). A first novel, a
thriller about a young American girl
who has been working on a Sydney
women’s paper. She is procured by a
secret-service mogul to spy on a girl
(formerly her friend) and her husband
who have gone to live in a beautiful
house in Perth. There, investigating
sinister activities, she is almost drowned
on purpose. She makes friends with
a red-haired surf-lifesaver and his red-
haired sister, an engaging young Aus-
tralian pair who help her with her
investigations. She falls in love with
a curious kind of artist, and wonders
what the vicious secretary is going to
do next—quite a bright thriller, its
main secret a little obvious, but
ingenious.


-jam
if
m
W
i*'
f” ■
.ERG TYPE 2 EPIJ 27 2-volt Home Lighting Battery. Suitable for J2-V,
24-V, 32-V, 56-V and 110-V installations. Capacity : 225 ampere hours.
THE NEW ERG
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY
The transparent polystyrene con-
tainer enables you to SEE how
much acid there is in the battery.
Inbuilt floating gravity
balls indicate state of
charge of cells.
Double insulation (including
glass wool) prevents shed-
ding, ensuring longer life.
GUARANTEED FOR 3 YEARS
ERG BATTERIES Pty. Ltd.
156 GOULByRN ST.. SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTED BY:
Erg Batteries Pty. Ltd* - - SYDNEY
Erg Batteries Pty. Ltd. - - BRISBANE
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty. Ltd. MELBOURNE
David L. Prescott • • • • ADELAIDE
Erg Distributors LAUNCESTON
J. R. Roe & Company ■ • • DARWIN
Walter Sully & Co. Pty. Ltd. ----- BROKEN HILL
